Grand Lodge of California.
I, GEORGI!

~OHNSON,

Grand Secretary of the M.·.

w.·. Grand Lodge of

Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do hereby certify thai the
following pages contain a trne and faithful transcript of the proceedings of that
Body at the Special Communication held at the City of San Francisco on the
seventh day of September, A.. L. 5895, and also at its Forty-sixth A.nnnal Oom·
mnnication-commenced on Tnesday, the eighth day of October, A.. L. 5895,'"and
terminated on Saturday, the tw~lfth day of said month-and of the returns of the
snbordinate Lodges, together with other matters authorized to be published.

I

~,

I have herennto appended my official signature 11nd have affixed the
Seal of the Grand Lodge of the State
of California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the Masonic
Temple, Oity of San Francisco, this
first day of December, in the Year
of Light, Five Thousand Eight Hnndred and Ninety-five •

•

GRAND LODGE
OF

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
SPECIAL COMMUNICATION.

By order of the Grand Master, a Special Communication of the
(]:rand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California
was holden in King Solomon's Hall of the Masonic Temple; in the
city of San Francisco, on the seventh day of September, A. L. 5895,
at one o'clock, P. x., .f or the purpose of performing the last and sad-

Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornw.

Spooial Communication of the

4

.!{:·t"W.·.

dest of the Masonic rites for our late beloved b~othe~, t~e
WILLIAM CALDWELL BELOHER, Pe.st Grand Master in this 1un ic ion.
There were present the following :-:GRAND OFFICERS:
·
·
(}t'and Master:
The M. ·• W. •• JAM:ES BAUNTY STEVBNB,.' •• ' .••.•.••. Senior Grand Warden;
" B • W • WILLIAM THQMAS LUOAS,.. · · • · · .. • • • • ·
•• ··
Grand Treasurer;
" v.·.
w.·. EDWARD CoLBIUN,. ................. (}rand
Seoreta.ry;
" V.·. lV.·. GEORGE JOHNSON,.······ ·········"· · (}rand Ohaplain;
" V• B. JUSTUS MICHAEL HINMAN, .. ········'·
· • w:.
• • EUGENE NELSON
DEUPBBY,......... .. GranI.I Orator·
G ',,Se In-•
· ,• ANDBRW :MUBRAY
. H&NDBY,. ......
• •·• Assistant ran.. ore-,.;
W· •
Grand
~ I
w.·•' HARBY CHARLBS BUSH,···••·•···· ''' ' G1· d Lecturer;
w:. 0BRIN STAPL&S HBNDEBSON,. · .. · "· · an MarB1•a '·
•:
S•~BL
DAVID
MAYBB,. .... ·"""'. ,(}rand Orga.ntsl;
w.• • ~u
G
W.'. JillBS OGLESBY,.··•· .. • .. • ... ··' .... • rand Tyler•'

..

With e. large number of Pe.st Grand Officers, Past Masters and
Officers of Lodges, and a great concourse of brethren.
The Grand Master filled the vacant. stations and places among the
Grand Officers by the following appointments :T

B · w· OHA.BLES LEWIS PATTON,. .... ..... 11.s Deputy Grand Master;
.
e R.
· · lf:•
· • FBANK
:MABTON ANGKLLOTTJ,. .•. · · • .. Junior Grand Warden:
· · w.
·' CHARLBS L. A. H&WBL, .••..•••...• " (}rand Standard Bearer;
GEORG& CHARLES DAWSON, ... ........ Grand Sword Bearer;
"
FRltDERIOK FBBDINA.ND BABBS, ...... " (}rand Bible Bearer;
w'." JOHN ALLEN HosM&B,.............. " Senior Grand Deacon;
W·· · J.A.MEB MICHAEL ELLIS, ... ·. .... . .. .. " Junior (}rand. Dea.con;
·'
W:• WILLIAM RUSSELL K ING, .... ••· ·• · · " Senior (}rand Steward;
"
·•
Grand Steward.;
W.·. BBN.JAll!IN ELLIS,.... •• •• . .......... "" Junior
nd PurBUi'llant.
WILLIAM HARVEY EDWARDS,. .. . ... ,Gra
b

w.:

W·:

w.-.

And the Grand Lodge of California. was opened in ~mplt .jorm.
The (:!rand Lodge we.s then called oif for the purpose of admitting
to the he.11 the great number of friends of the deceased who were de-

sirous to be present.
The choir then sang Rest for the Weary and chanted the Lord's
'ch the W..· EUGENE NELSON DEUFREY, Grand Ore.tor,
P re.yer, e.fter wh i
deliv.ered the following eulogy :MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER
.
AND BRETHREN OF THE MASONIO CBAll'T :.
.
l
Ii
CALD·
On the.t lone couch of his
everle.stmg s eep, es th• e form of WILLIAM
A
ted
WELL BELCHER Most Worshipful Past Grand Master of Free e.nd ccep
Masons of the' State of California. On the.t lone cuuch lies the formf o6~~e w?o
wa.s recognized as e.n e.ble le.wyer by all of the judiciary of the State o ed ~ or~ia,
and wherever he wa.s beard. There lies the form of e. fond e.nd devot . ro er
·and relative the form of e. friend, one whose friendship wa.s wort\t!; ~~vmg::t:~
when, on S~ptember lat, 1895, the grim meBBenger, d.eath, touc
•m e.n is

5

spirit we.fted to another world, we of the world of Masonry met with e. loss which
cannot be filled, for WILLIAM CALDWELL BELCHER Wll.S an authority upon Ma.sonic
jurisprudence, not only appreeie.ted e.nd bowed to in this jurisdiction, but throughout every Grand Jurisdiction in the United States, e.nd we might well say of the
civilized world where Me.sonry is known. As e.n instance of it, the report given by
the Committee on Jurisprudence e.t the le.st Annual Communication of this Grand
Jurisdiction, where Chairman BRLCHER gave his views in the relation of eubor·
dinate J,odges ce.ring for their own sick e.nd distressed. the Gre.nd J uriediction of
Wisconsin took up the.t report e.nd he.d it printed in circular form to be for.
we.rded to ee.ch Grand Jurisdiction in the United Ste.tee. The volumes of correspondence from the committees of the Gre.nd Jurisdictions throughout the
United States will show that the views of Brother BELCHER were looked to with
tbe greatest respect of e.ny one brother whose views were ever expressed in re·
ge.rd to the laws of our great Order. In Masonry hie loss, I repeat, we cannot fill.
To those who knew him well in the legal profession, his absence will ever be
deeply felt. His name is printed upon the pa.ges of nearly every volume of the
reports of this Ste.te since 1856, when he bece.me e.n active practitioner at the bar
of this grand State.
We are informed, as to hie early history, the.t he was born at the town of
Stockbridge, in the Ste.te of Vermont, in the year 1821 ; tbe.t at about the e.ge of
fifteen years he left his farm home to attend the University of Vermont at Burlington, from whence he gra.duated with honor, e.nd after graduation, his te.ste
being in the direction of scholastic fame, be ge.ve his attention to teaching, and
for so1ne yea.rs held the responsible position of principal of the e.cademy e.t Plattsburg, New York.
·
In the year 1856, unannounced, he appeared e.t the office door'.of his brother,
Judge I. S. BELOHEB, e.nd hie step upon the portal there e.nd the opening of the
door we.s the fir•t knowledge tbe.t that beloved brother ha.d that the presence of
his brother WILLIAM we.s so near to him. But from that day their aBSociation in
business went forwe.rd, and until the formation of the partnership with MABTIQK
& SON, in this city and county, about the year 1874, the.t association was
unbroken to the de.y of bis death.
As e. well known and eminent l)lember of the Se.n Francisco Bar said to me the
other de.y, in speaking of this departed brother: "That me.n combined in him
more the.n e.nyone whom I ever knew, gentleness and forcefulness; gentle as a
sweet child in the courtesy of his treatinent of those whom he ce.me in contact
with, mild mannered, even e. lovable man; but when he enge.ged in such contests e.s
be believed he was right in (e.nd he would not engage in them unleBB be did believe
be was r~ht in them), he became not only a bold e.nd forceful foe, but dangerous
even with a coura~e to uphold bis views, determined to be.ttle for the right e.nd
win for the interests of those whom he believed should have the benefit of the
le.w." In these words, it seemed to me, was summed up the great character of
this friend who bas no.;_, gone before.
Those present here to-de.y, me.ny of them, well know how pure, bow true hie
friendships were. Many of those present to-Jay will remember him in the unostentatious cbe.rity the.t came from him, but, as I have alree.dy suggested, Most
Worshipful Grand Master, this Grand Order founded upon the rock of
charity, will never know e.ge.in, it se&ms to me, one so capable, so e.ble,
as our Past Grand Master whose cle.y is now before us. He wa.s raised by
the votes of his brethren,'from the representation of all of this State, to become
Grand Me.star of Masons in California May, 1862. He held that office until

6

SpecWJ, Oommuni.cation.

October, 186.'>, and was elected Grand Commander of Knights Templar in 1864.
He stood high in the Coneietory and in the Chapter, and' in October, 1886, he
received the Honorary Degree of Thirty-third.
Where his services were best known was upon the Committee of Jurisprudence
in the Grand Lodge of this jurisdiction, and for a period of over twenty-eight
years he held the responsible position of Chairman of that most responsible of
committees.
Hie was a disposition for work, untiring, unceasing. Hie researches in the line
of his profession were not sufficient for him, but he loved good books, and would
rather be seated with a friend of like literary tastes and discuss the character and
merits of literary works than probably any other pleasure that could be given to
him. He was untiring in hie endeavors for those who entrusted their interests to
him, until it came at last that he was weary, and his last words were, as they have
been communicated to ue: "Oh, if I could get into a quiet corner and rest and
never have to try a case again. " In these many, many years of hie unceasin!f
labors, he felt that there was a time when he was deserving of rest. Rest has
come, not as we would have it, but as the Great Architect of the Universe has
decreed, and we, the brethren of the Craft, can now only in the agony of· our
spirit and in the distress of our llrief exclaim "farewell ! "

With solemn music from the organ the body was then removed
from the hall, e.ccompanied by the pall-bearers, who were as follows : -

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M.-.W.-.GRAND LODGE
OF

Free and Accepted Masons
OF THE

OF CALIFORNIA
STATE
'
.
.

From the Bar .Aaaoci.ation :
WILLIAH H. BEA'ITY, C. J .,
AUGUSTUS L. RHODES,

JOHN J. DE HAVEN,

ALEX. VAN R. PATEBSON,

EDWARD R. TAYWR.

From the Grand Command.erg :
TROWBBIDGE H. WARD,

FORTY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION,

CHARLES E 8TON&

From the <hand Lodge :
M.·. W.·. MORRIS MAROH ESTEE, P. G. M. ;
M. ". W. ·. HIRAH NEWTON RUOKIIB, P. G. M .;
M.·. W. ·. WILLIAM JOHNSTON, P. G. M.;
M.·. w.·. EDHuND CL:IQ!ENT AmNsoN, P. a. M .;
M. •. W. ". CLAY WEBSTER TAYWB, P. G. M.;
M.·. W.·. GEORG.II CLEMENT PERKINS, P ..G. M.

A procession was formed in the usual manner, and, escorted by
CaJ,ifornia and Golden Gate Oommanderies, Knights· Templar, proceeded to the ple.ce of sepulture in the Masonic Cemetery, where, with
the solemn and impressive service of our Order, the body of our late
brother was deposited in· the vault. The choir then sang the beautiful
·
and appropriate chant-Thy Will be Done.
Thus the services ended. The procession was reformed and returned to King Solomon's Hall, where the Grand Lodge was called cin;
and, after prayer by the Grand Ohaplain and an anthem by the choir,
was closed in ~mplt .form.
JAMES BAUNTY STEVENS
Grand Master.

GEORGE JOHNSON,
· Grand Secretary.

AT ITS

A USTIN A. SANDERSON,

HELD AT

THE MASONIC TEMPLE, IN THE CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO:
COMMENCED ON

TUESDAY, QOTOBER 8TH, A. D. 1895, A. L. 5895,
AND TERMINATED ON

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12th, A. D.1895, A. L. 5895.

SAN FRANCISCO:
FRANK EASTMAN &

Co, PRINTERS, 509 CLAY STREET.

1895.

10

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

Upon calling the roll of members there were found present the
followingGRAND OFFICERS :
The M.·. W. •• Jill.EB BAUNTY STllVBNs, .•..•........• Grand .Master;
" R.·. W.·. EDWARD MYEBS PBBBTON, ••••••••.••• • Deputy Grand Mask!r;
" R.·. W.·. WILLI.AJ( THOIUS LuoAS, ••••• • •• . •••• Senior Grand Warden;
" R .·. W.·. TH01us FLINT, JR., .•••••••••••••• •••• Junior Grand Warden;
V. •. W. •• EnwABD OOLBllAN, .••••••••••••••••••• Grand Treasurer;
" V. •. W. ·. GEORGE JOHNSON, ............. .. ........ Grand Secretary;
V. •. R. •. JUSTUS MICHAEL HINllAN. • • • • • • • . • • • Grand Ohaplain;
w.·. EUGENE NELSON DEUPREY, ••••••••••• • (}rand Orator;
W.·. ANDREW MURRAY HENDRY, • • ••••••• •• Assistant Grand &cretary;
w... HARBY CHARLES BusH, ••••••••.••••. Grand Lecturer;
W.·. ORRIN STAPLES HENDERSON, • ••••• •••. (}rand Marshal j
W.·. EDWIN HUDSON Pli'JIOY, •••••••• •• •••• Grand Standard Bearer;
W. •• HENBY *A K11LLEB,., • • • • • •••••••••• Grand Sword Bearer;
w.·. FREDERICK WILLIAll LuOAS,. • • •••••••• Grand Bibl.e Bearer;
w.·. WALLACE KAY, ...................... . Senior Grand Deacon;,
w.·. SAJroEL PlLA.GJIB,••••••••••• ••••. ••• • ••Tunior Grand Deacori;
W.·. THOllAB J11FFllR80N R!OHARDB, ••••••• • Senior Grand Steward;
W.·. W~LIAll HRNRY OuBBON, •• •••••• •• •• Junior Grand. Steward.;
"
W.·. JOHN WALTER BOYD,. •••••••••• ••• •• •• (}rand Pursuivant;
W. ·. SAMUlllL DAVID MAYER, •••••••• ••••• .• . Grand Qrganist;
W.·. JAMES OGLESBY, ••••••••••••••••••••• . Grand Tyler.

PAST GRAND OFFICERS:
The if.·. W.•. NATHANIBL GBBENE CUBTIS, ••• ••• ••• • Past Grand Master;
" M.·: W.·. WILLIAM AllBAHAll DAVIES, •••••• •• • :Past Grand Master;
M.·. W.·. GEORGE OLEllENT PERKINS, ••••••• ••• . Past Grand .Masier;
" M.·. w.·. BAHUEL CBAWFOBD DENSON,. •••••••• • Past Grand Ma"-er;
" M.·. W.·. WILEY JAllES TINNIN, • • ••••••••• . • • • Past Grand Miuter;
.. .M.·. w.·. HmAll NEWTON Rumam, .... ... ... . • • Past Grand Masl£r;
" M.·. W.·. MoBRIS MABCH EsTllE, •••• • •••. ••• . Past Grand Master;
" M.·. W.· • .A.LVAH RuBSKLL CONKLIN, •••••• . • ••• • Past Grand Mask!r;
" M.·. W.·. WILLIAM JOHNSTON, ••••• , •••••••• , •• • Past Grand .Master;
,, M.·.. w.·. HENRY 8.A.YRB ORME, •.. .•.: ....... . ; . •• Past Grand Master;
" R.·. w.·. Louts COHN, •. .•..•••.......•. . ..•• ~PaSt Senior Grand Warden;
" R.·. W.·. THRODORR GUEVARA COCKRILL, •••••• • Past Senior Grand Wardf!n;
" R.·. W.·. FRBDEBICK FERDINAND BABBS, •• • •••• • Past Junior Grand. Warden;
" R.·. W.•. CBABLEB EDWARD MITOHELL, • • ••• • . Past Junior Grand Warden;
" R.·. W.·. JACOB HABT NEFF,•.••••••••••••• ·• • • • Past Junior Grand Warden;
" R.·. W.·. HENRY HAY KNAPP, •••••.••.••••••• • Past Junior Grand. Warden;

And the representatives of t two hundred and ten chartered
Lodges, with delegates from three Lodges under dispensation, and a
large niimber of Pa~t Masters entitled to seats.
There being a sufficient representation, the Grand Lodge was
opened in ~mplt Jf cmn, with music by the choir and prayer by the
Grand Chaple.in.
• Italioiaed capital letters In thla list, and elsewhere, are assumed initlala to which no
name belongs.-Gr. St,e.
t The whole number of Lodge• represent.ad during the Communication will be seen on
the laat page of the Journal of Prooeedlnga.

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

11

The Grand Master announced the appointment of the following
regular committees :On Oredentials: ............ . ................ .

rKingsbury
Andrew Murray Hendry,
Sanborn,

~

Daniel Hilton,
Harry Lincoln Walthers,
[ Thomas Grafton Lambert.

r Frank Oharles Wolf,

I Frank Savinns Rice,

On Charters: •..•....•.• . . .•..•• .....••.... { Jacob Surface,

I George Ran,

l ' George Woodburn Nicol.

On By-Laws of Lodges: •.. .. .. .•...••••

I
l

James Louis Barham,
Marion Albert Menges,
George Washington Strohl,
Edward William Peabody,
George Thomas McCabe.

He also announced the appointment of Past Grand Master ALVAH
RUSSELL CONKLIN to :fill a vacancy existing in the Committee on
Jurisprudence; Bros. ALEXANDER Mmr&oE WILLiillB, RoBERT A LONG,
CHARLES KIMBLE and CHARI.EB LENNIS to :fill vacancies existing in the
Committee on Returns; and Bros. FBANOIS ALVIN ABBOTT, W1LLIA11
BROOKMAN, RoBF.RT EDGAR JAox and JAMES BROOKING to :fill vacancies
existing i~ the Committee on Pay of Members.
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address to the Grand
Lodge, as follows :BRETHREN 01!' THE GRAND LODGE:-

In compliance with the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, it now becomes
my duty to submit to you an account of my official acts during the past
Masonic year, and to ma.ke such recommendations as may seem to be for the
best interests of .this Grand Jurisdiction. For the forty-sixth time have the
representatives of our several Lodges assembled in Annual Communication.
Mindful of our dependence on God, His blessings have been invoked upon us
and upon our deliberations. We are now ready to proceed with our annual
business.
It is with unfeigned satisfaction that I am able to congratulai;e you upon
the prosperity of the Craft within our jurisdiction during the year just closed,
and that peace and harmony everywhere prevail.
There have been 2,522 degrees conferred and we have made a net gain
in membership of 391.
While we rejoice in our prosperity, we are called upon to mourn. The
gavel has sounded in the Heavens, and two of our loved and honored Past
Grand Masters have been summoned to tba.t blillaful Lodge on high, where
our Supreme Grand Master forever presides.

12

•

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

It is my sad duty to report to the Grand Lodge, at this time, the ~ea.th .of
a beloved brother, who for four years occupied the Grand East of this JUnsdiction :..:__
Joe:N MILLS BROWNE, the illustrious Mason, citizen and soldier, has
crossed the river and is forever at rest.
Brother BROWNE first appeared in Grand.Lodge, as a member, at the
twenty-second Annual Communication, in 1871. He was a surgeon in the
United States Navy, stationed at Mare Island Navy Yard, and a member of
Naval Lodge, No. 87 ; he was elected Master of Naval Lodge at the annual
election of 1870, and represented hie Lodge in this Grand Lodge at the
ensuing session. Gifted with a pleasing addreBB,· and a mannner tha.t created
a. desire on the pa.rt of his audience to be convinced, hie position was assured.
Brother BROWNE a.t once took part in the endeavor to procure an amendment
to our Constitution, authorizing the Grand Master to. grant dispeI18ations to
Lodges to receive and act upon petitions of persons en~aged in the naval a~d
military service of the United States, who had not resided twelv~ months Ill
the Sta.te a.nd six months in the jurisdiction of the Lodge, as reqmred by that
instrument. The favorable impreBBion created upon the members of the
Grand Lodge by Brother .BROWNE in the advocacy of his nmendment led to
his election as Junior Grand ·warden at the same ses~ion. He was continually in the service of the Grand Lodge from that time until the conclusion of
his four years of service as Grand Master in 1879.
.
Brother BROWNE never lost his interest in Masonry, but to the day of his
death was active in the promulgation of its sublime philosophy. The life of
our brother was devoted to his country's service, Upon his retirement at the
age of 62, he was credited in the department a.rchi.ves with forty-one ~ear:'
continuous service as surgeon in the navy of the Un\ted Stat~s. As an lilCI·
dent of th~t service, Brother BROWNE was the surgeon of the United States
Ship " Kearsarge " in her world-renowned contest with the " Alaba.ma" off
the coast of France on the twelth da.y of June, 1864, which comba.t is so
gra.phically narrated by him in a. pa.per published in the Century War
Records.
Joe:N MILLS BROWNE wa.s born in Hinsdale, New Hampshire, May 10th,
1831. He was graduated with distinguished honor in his chosen profeBBi~n of
medicine before he attained his majority, and wa.s, at the age of 21, appomted
a surgeon in the navy of the United States, in which position he serv~ continuously until his retirement at the age of 62 years. He was hold'.ng the
office of Medical Director when his merits were still further recogm.zed by
President Cleveland by his appointment as ''Surgeon General," to which
position he was reappointed by President Harrison four years la.tar. .
.
Brother BROWNE was retired with the rank of Commodore, the highest m
the medical department of the United States Navy.
·
With such qualificatioil8 as he poBBessed, it is not strange that he was genera.Uy beloved by all who knew him, nor remarkable that we should honor
and revere his memory, and endeavor to follow his exa.mple in his attachment
and loyal service to Freemasonry as exemplified in the Grand Lodge of California.

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Ualij<Yrnia.

Our Past Grand Master has not been with us for several years, and yet so
true is it that a man's good deeds. live after him that his eminent service has
remained with us, and needs but this reminder to revive in the memories of
his brethren of California the loyal service of a master workman.
The saddest duty which, as Grand Master, I have been called upon to
perform, was to call a special meeting of the Grand Lodge on September 7th
last, for the purpose of laying to rest, with appropriate ceremonies, the
remains of our lamented brother, Past Grand Master WILLIAM CALDWELL
BELCHER. The day was propitious, and was emblema.tical of the calmness
and sunshine in the life of this beloved patriarch in Masonry. He passed to
his reward on the morning of September 1st, 1895. The gra.nd old jurist had
"filed his last brief," and entered the Sanctum Sanctorum, to offer up his
devotions throughout eternity. He was more generally known, perhaps,
than any other Mason in California ; and on the following day the daily preBB
carried the saddening message to every city and village in the State. Whereever he was known he wa.s respected and loved-respected for the spotless
character he bore, and loved for his gentleneBS, fidelity and broad humanity.
Time is not wasted in the studying of the various phases of a good man's.
character. In addition to the interest taken in the achievement of succeBB,
there is the fostering influence of noble example.
For thirty-five years he was a conspicuous figure in the Grand Lodge of
California. During all the years of his Ma.sonic life, he gave it patient, faithful and untiring service ; it was, in every sense, a labor of love-an individ·
ual interest a.nd solicitude for Masonry.
·
For three years he wa.s Grand Master, and for twenty-eight years Chair·
ma.n of the Committee on Jurisprudence. In this capacity he did his best
and most successful work. To be convinced of this, you have but to take the
annual reports and see the evidence of his superior skill. He was the most
thoughtful a.nd coil8iderate man for the feelings of others tha.t I have ever
known. Whenever he ma.de a ruling on a. point of Masonic law, those who
may have differed with him well knew that he had but one grand object
in view, that of promoting the best interests of the Order he loved ; and
when he found occasion to differ with a Grand Master upon some decieion, he
has been known, time and again, to seek a private interview, that he might
expla.in the reason of the adverse opinion he entertained. The kind and
paternal interest he ma.nifested on such occasions was most touching. The
tender rega.rd for the opinion of his fellow members on ·the committee of
which he wa.s so long chairma.n w~ likewise remarkable. While all were ever
ready to defer to his wisdom, his experience a.nd his superior judgment, he
never seemed conscious of it, and wa.s never too much hurried to patiently
consider ~nd give due weight to the suggestions of his confrP.res. No one
was more polite and courteous in debate, always yielding to his opponent as
much as he asked for himself; and though, after due deliberation, his views
and principles were unchangeable, he never misrepresented nor wronged those
who differed with him,
Born with a capacity for development of the best qualities of mind and
heart, Bro. BELCHER was a specimen product of nature. Inherent worth was

14

Proce,edings of the

[Oct. 8,

his birthright ; culture and refinement were the outgrowth of aelf-effort and
the environments of t~e age in which he lived. His aim and ambition was to
be useful, accomplish good and render a lasting service to humanity. Not an
ambition which dwarfs the affections and prostitutes the soul to worldly
clamor, but an ambition to daily apply the golden rule of life. This was h'.s ·
constant and sturdy purpoee, and was pursued unfalteringly to the end. His
modesty amounted to diffidence ; he scorned sensationalism and shrank from
publicity; he was deeply sensible of the appreciation of. his brethren: and
when at the last Annual Communication he was met with the unammous
request to deliver an addrese on Masonic law at this meeti~g, it stirr~d the
deepest emotion of his noble nature.. To him i~ ':as the quiet ~xpresBlon. of
the love and veneration of the Craft in the dechnmg years of his useful life.
To have posed him as the central figure on some festal o~~i~n, would h~ve
filled him with embarrassment and feelings not at all to his hkmg. The time
has arrived when we should have listened to the summing up of his ripe
Masonic scholarship, but alas ! his seat is vacant, his voice is hushed fo_rever ; by the workings of a mysterious Providence, he does_ not greet us m
fulfillment of his last important engagement. His spotlese life W'lll an example worthy of all imitation ; his death leaves a great void in ~ur ranks'. a~d
to-day the Masons of California are mourning the loss of theU" most distin·
guishoo craftsman.
I recommend that the matter pertaining to the death of Past Grand Masters BROWNE and BELCHER be referred to a special committee, to report at the
.
present Communication.
At the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge, a committee, consisting of the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master and Grand Treasurer, was
appointed for the purpose of erecting a monument to the memory of :Past
Grand Master LEONIDAS E. PRATT. Your committee have perfortned that
duty, and there is now erected over his grave, in the Masonic Cemetery at
San Francisco, an enduring monument, as evidence. of the fraternal esteem
in which our Past Grand Master was held by his Masonic brethren of California.
In April, 1895, the Blue Lakes Water Company, a corporation, seven. of
whose bonds are held by the Grand Lodge, communicated to me their desire
to attach an additional clause to the bonds issued by it. I referred the
matter to Bro. CHAS. L. PATTON, who, after an examination, reported to me
that the Blue Lakes Water Company had provided for an issue of five thousand bonds of the par value of one thousand dollars each, secured by a deed
of trust to the California Safe Deposit and Trust Company of their property
and improvements. Seven hundred and twe~ty-five of these bonds had been
actually issued, and, of the number, the Grand Lodge holds seven. The company desired to limit the issue to the number of seven hu~dred and twen~y­
five, unlese the additional bonds should be sold to acquU"e property which
would bring in a net income of seven per cent per annum.
Bro. p ATTON advised me that the clause which the company desired to
add would, in all probability, materially increase the value of the bonds
owned by the nrand Lodge. I, therefore, with the Grand Treasurer, deliv-

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

15

ered the bonds to the company, and they were returned to us with the clause
added to them limiting the sale of the bonds in future.
I have received certain documents from the representative of a clandestine
French Lodge, existing in the city of Los Angeles, claiming to hold a charter
from the Grand Lodge Symbolic of France-a Body; by the way, of which
we have no official knowledge-an d asking. recognition by this Grand Lodge.
These documents have been placed in the hands of the Committee on Jurisprudence for such action as that committee, in its wisdom, may deem
proper ; their report will in due time be submitted to you.
The several Lodges to which charters were granted at the last Annual
Communication of this Grand Lodge, to wit: Hollenbeck, No. 319, South Gate
No. 320, Ali8al, No. 321, and Alhambra, No. 322, were constituted, and th~
officers duly installed by special deputies appointed for the purpose.
The bonds of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer were filed
with, and approved by, me.
On March 30th, 1895, my attention was called to the condition of the
daughter of one of our deceased Past Grand Masters. I immediately investigated the matter, and fonnd that the lady and her four small children were
in actual need of the . necesearies of life, and that she desired to go to her
sister, who was residing in the country. Believing this to be an extraordinary case, and one requiring immediate action, I directed the Grand Secre·
tary to draw a warrant on the Grand Treasurer for the sum of twenty-five
dollars, which sum I sent to the lady, and Bro. JEROME ADOLPHUS FILL·
MORE of the 8. P. Co. kindly furnished her aud her children with transportation to the home of her sister.
On December 26th, 1894, permission was granted to the members of Ontario.
Lodge, No. 301, to appear in Masonic clothing for the purpose of attending
·
.
divine service.
On December 28th, 1894, permisaion was granted to Buckeye Lodge, No.
195, for the same purpose.
On May •th, 1895, ·I appointed Worshipful Bro. CHARLES LEWIS PATTON
a member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans'
Home, vice Bro. GUSTAVE LANGFORD SPEAB, resigned.
On the same date, I appointed Worshipful Bro. FRANK MARION ANGBL·
LOTTI a member of that Board, vice Bro. ALBERT HANSON, decea.sed.
Our relations with other Grand Lodges with which we are in correspondence continue to be of a most fraternal nature. I refer you to the valuable
report of the Committee on Correspondence, in which you will find information as to their transactions.
The reports of the several Boards of Relief will in due time be submitted
for your consideration, and to which I desire to call your careful attention,
and would recommend that the appropriations therefor be continued with
such liberality as the finances of the Grand Lodge may warrant.
I have received a number of communications from Masters of Lodges relative to the rights, etc., of dimitted Masons who apply for affiliation and are
rejected. I have in each instance referred them to the provisions of the
Constitution relative to that matter. In m~t of the cases presented to me

16

Proceedings of the

(Oct. 8,

the applicants had carried their dimits for from five ~ ~fteen years before
presenting the same to any Lodge and applying for affiliation.
. .
. I am convinced that an amendment should be ma.de to our Constitution,
similar to the Grand Lodge Constitution of New York, governing the issuing
of dimits. I submit the same for your careful consideration, and recommend
the adoption of some such amendment by this Grand Lodge'.
Fall River Lodge, No. 270, having failed to hold an election of officers, or,
as I am informed, to even hold a meeting for the past two years, I recommend
the revocation of its cha:rter by the Grand Lodge.
.
.
The reports of the Inspectors show the finances of the Lodges in ~heir
several districts to be in a satisfactory condition, with very few exceptions,
and to two of these I desire to call your attention.
.
The Inspector of the Tweo.ty-third District makes the following report
regarding one of the Lodges in his district : -

"Valley Lodge, No. 135, at Linden, is laborin'l under t~e following difficulties They are supporting an indigent brother, and have in the last ten.ye~s
exp~nded between twenty-seven and twenty-eight hundred dol~ars in is
maintenance, and Bro. KEIVEN (the Master) informed me that their tyeasury
was empty their attendance small and meetings irregular, and that if some
relief was 'not obtained soon that he feared they would be compelled to surrender their charter."
The Inspector of the Eighteenth District reports as follows :" There is one thing lacking in most of the Lodges-that is the dues. I
think there is in this city but one Lodge whose d~es are u:p to ~hehne~es­
sar running expenses of the Lodge, without saymg anything o c. arity.
Sil dollars are the dues of most of the Lodges in the Dis~rict, wh1~e the
actual running expenses are nev1ir less than $7.00, and B?me~imes as high ~s
$8.50. An emergency would call for an assessment, which is generally disliked."
In the matter of salaries of Grand Officers, I wish to call the particular
attention of the Grand Lodge to the following :In 1886, there were 226 Lodges in this jurisdiction, with a membership of
14,141. According to the returns for the year ending ~uly 31st, 1895, there
are 261 Lodges, with a membership of 17,431, an mcrease of m~re than
fifteen per cent in Lodges, · and more than twenty-two per ce~t i~ membership. Yet, notwithstanding this large increase, aud, necl!ssan_ly, mcrease
· in the duties of our Grand Secretary and his assistant, the salaries of these
otficers have been reduced from $5,600.00 in 1886 to $2,980.00. as a~ ~resent,
a decrease of more than forty-six per cent. While t.h e ea.lanes paid m ~886
may have been exces9ive- and I believe them to. have been-I am c~nstramed
to say that I do not believe it to be for the best mterests, or becommg to the
dignity, of one of the grandest jurisdictions in the world .to reduce the com. . .
pensation of its Grand Secretary to that of a m~re clerkship.
The question of bringing the work of our Ritual, throughout the JU~c­
tion, to a higher standard of uniformity, is worthy of your carefnl consideration. The subject will be presented to you fully in the report of your Grand
Lecturer.
On May 16, 1895, I convened the Grand Lodge at the hall of Oak Grove

1895.)

Grand Lodge of OalijOTnia.

17

Lodge, No. 215, in Alameda, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of
the New City Hall at that place. I was assisted in this pleasing duty by the
.following Grand Officers: The Deputy Grand Master, Junior Grand Warden,
Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary, Grand Chaplain, Grand Orator, Grand
Marshal, Assistant Grand Secrebry, Grand Sword Bearer and the Senior
Grand Steward. The officers of the city government and a very large
assembly of citizens were present to witness the ceremonies. The W: •.
EUGENE NELSON DEUPREY, Grand Orator, delivered an appropriate and eloquent oration, at the conclusion of which the Grand Officers and the city
officials were hospitably entertained at a banquet prepared by the brethren of
Oak Grove Lodge.
On July I, 1895, Past Master HENSON POLAND was authorized to convene
the Grand Lodge at Lompoc for the purpose of l!loying the corner-stone of St.
Mary's Episcopal Church at that place. The ceremony was performed in the
presence of a large assembly of people.
On July 3, 1895, I authorized Past Grand Master .ALvAB RussELi. CoNX·
LIN to convene the Grand Lodge for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of
the Kern County High School building at Bakersfield. A large concourse of
·
people assembled to witness the imposing ceremonies.
The following letter was received from P<L8Mena Lodge:" An appeal has been made to our Lodge for pecuniary aid by an aged
woman who claims that her husband was a Mason; that he died forty years
ago in the State of Iowa, and that he was a d.i mitted Mason seven years pre·
ceding his death. This arced lady comes to the coast with a grandson, who is
a victim of that dread disease consumption, expecting to be supported by
Pasadena Lodge. Any suggestions you may be pleased to offer us for our
guidance regarding the validity of drawing on the already depleted treasury
of our Lodge will be thankfully received.
Answer. Pasadena Lodge is under no Masonic obligation to extend to the
applicant any of the rights, privileges or charities of the Order. Under our
Masonic law her husband was certainly not entitled thereto, and I can see
no good reason why it should be different in the case of his widow.
The following case was referred to me by the Master of Athena Lodge,
No. 228:At the annual election for officers· votes were cast by members who were in
arrears for dnes, the votes were canvassed and the officers declared elected.
Prior to the next stated meeting a brother insists that the Master declare the
election illegal.
I decided that the election must stand. While it is true that under the
provisions of Section 2, Article IX of the Uniform Code of By-Lawe of
Lodges, delinquents should not be permitted to vote, in this case delinquents
having been permitted to do so would not, in my opinion, justify the Master
in declaring the election illegal.
A member of Woodland Lodge, No. 156, writes as follows:·•Previous to voting the Master announced that brethren in arrears for dues
were not entitled to vote. The~ were .twenty-six vo~ cast and only twentytwo brethren present who had paid theu dues. In view of these facts was it
a legal election ? And has the Lodge a right to install the officers so elected ? "

18

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

As in the case of .Athens Lodge, I decided the election to be legal and that
the officers should be installed.
The Master of .Athens Lodge, No. 228, proposed the following questions:lst. Some weeks a.go the infant son of the Secretary of the Lodge died.
The father was without means; I, as Master of the Lodge, advanced the sum
of fifty dollars to defray the funeral expenses, My claim against the Lodge
was demurred to on the ground that the Secretary had no claim upon the
Lodge, and that the money_ should be ~ega.rded as a loan, to be repaid at some
future time. I consider. this unmasomc, for never was there a case of greater
need.
2d. Our Trustees have, it ~ppears, made loans of considerable sums to
certain irrespor,sible parties, entaili~g a loss to the Lodge of several hundred
dollars. Are these Trustees responsible, and to what extent?
The case presented in the first instance, is one altogether proper for the
consideration of the Lodge. If its Secretary, or any other member, under
the circumstances stated, was unable to meet the necessary expenses of burying his child, it was the duty of the Lodge to help him, and, so we may say,
it was the duty of every member of the Lodge to see that he did receive the
requisite ·assistance, And it certainly would be proper, if the Master made
the advance on the part of the Lodge, because it was not then convenient to
call his Lodge together to act upon the case, or, if it has a Uommittee on
Charity, to call that committee together, that the Lodge should repay the
sum to him. If, however, the advance made was as a loan, then, as a matter
of course, the Lodge would be under no obligation to repay the amount. .
As to the second, Trustees are appointed for the purpose of making investments, and if they exercise their best judgment in making
loans, and act in good faith, they incur no liability as guarantors or otherwise,
and would not be responsible in case the parties to whom the loans were
made, for any reason, were unable 1Jo pay. If they made the loans to parties
whom they knew to be irresponsible at the Mme, they acted in bad faith,
dealing with trust funds as they would not have dealt with their own. The
law requires of Trustees that they shall act in good faith and exercise their
best judgment. That is all.
Question. Can the Tyler of a Lodge (he being a member in good standing) debate and vote on questions before the Lodge ?
Answer. Yes. The Tyler should lie granted this privilep;e if he so desires, a.nd the Master should relieve him of bis duties for the purpose.
A person received the three degrees in Masonry in the Ea.stern states some
twenty yea.rs ago, and shortly afterward removed from the jurisdiction of his
Lodge, and was suspended for non-payment of dues. About fifteen years ago
he came to California and ha.s ever since resided here. After leaving the East
he changed his name. I was asked if a Lodge could receive a petition signed
by the new name and confer on him the three degrees. I answered, No. He
must place himself in standing, by eithn paying his dues, or by having the
same remitted by his Lodge, and secure a. dimit therefrom; then make application for membership in the manner provided in our Constitution.
Question. When charges are preferred against the Secretary of a Lodge,
who should notify the members of the special meeting called to elect Commissioners ?

1895.]

'

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

19

Answer. The Secretary should issue the notices, and act in his official
capacity until the Commissioners are elected; then he should be temporarily
suspended from office, and a Secretary pro tem. appointed to discharge the
duties of the office to the conclusion of the trial. The Secretary is not supposed to know against whom 'the charges are preferred.
·
·
Question. Is it required that the Master elect shall be qualified to give
the work and lecture of the Senior Deacon, to entitle him to be installed as
Master?
Answer. No.
A brother had for a number of years remained suspended for non-payment
of dues. He became sick, and thinking his life fast drawing . to a close, expressed a desire to be restored by his Lodge, that he might die a Mason in
good standing. This re.q uest was made known to his Lodge at the next
stated meeting thereof, when a brother moved that the delinquent's dues be
remitted, and the motion was carried without opposition. Prior to the next
stated meeting I was asked if, at that meeting, the vote by which the dues
were remitted could be reconsidei;ed. I answered, No.
In another case, the question as to a reconsideration of the action of the
Lodge was referred to me as follows :A brother was suspended for non-payment of dues at the stated meeting
in December, 1894, the Lodge having refused to grant him further time. At
the stated meeting in January, 1895, a brother, who felt aggrieved at the
action of the Lodge, made the following statement in open Lodge : "That he
had seen the Grand Master, and had talked the matter over with him, and
that the Grand Master would very likely order us to rescind our action, or he
would take our charter."
Upon this statement being made, a member made a motion to rescind the
action of the Lodge, and to remit the dues of the brother to January lst,
1895, stating "that if we had to reinstate the brother, we had better do it
voluntarily than to be ordered to do so by the Grand Master, or lose our
charter."
The mbtion was carried and the brother ~as reinstated. Soon thereafter
the Master of the Lodge called on me, and stated that by reason of such action
the harmony of the Lodge had been disturbed, and asked my advice as to the
best way to proceed, with a view of restoring harmony. I assured him that
the statement made by the brother as coming from me was incorrect; "that
the suspension of the brother was a matter with which the Lodge had a per·
feet right to deal, and I did not think I had any right to interfere." The
Master then asked : " Can our Lodge reconsider the vote by which the
brother's dues were remitted?" I answered: Your Lodge having acted in
the matter under a misrepresentation of facts, its action may be reconsidered.
Question. Can a Lodge set apart; for social purposes, money received for
rent of their hall ?
Answer. No. Such funds are part of the revenue of the Lodge, and a
sum not exceed~g five per cent of the total revenue for the preceding Masonic year can be used for such purposes.

20

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

Question. Can a Mason holding a dimit place himself in standing by pay
ing dues to a Lodge?
Answer. No.
I have received many letters a.sking my ruling upon sundry matters
which have already been decided by the Grand "Lodge. In each of such cases
I have referred the brothers to the decisions of this Grand Lodge heretofore
made.
It has at all times been a pleasure to me to receive letters of inquiry, as it
demonstrated a desire on the part of the brethren to proceed according to our
established usages.
On November 15th last I visited Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57, at Santa Rosa.
The third degree was conferred on two candidates in a very creditable
manner. The Grand Orator, Grand Lecturer. and the Inspector of the Six·
teenth District accompanied roe on this visit.
·
On February 16th, I visited King David's Lodge, No. 209, at San Luis
Obispo. The Inspector of the Thirty-third District had called a District
meeting, and six of the eight Lodges comprisi11g the District WP.re represented.
The third degree was exemplified, and a very pleasant and profitable evening
was the result of this meeting.
·
On February 18th, I p.Ud a visit to Santa Barbara Lodge, No. 192, at Santa
Barbara. The first degree was conferred in a very impressive manner.
On February 19th, I visited Magnolia Lodge, No. 242, at Santa Barbara.
The Inspector of the Thirty-fourth District had made. this the occasion for a
District meeting, and all the Lodges comprising the District were well repre·
sented.. The second degree was conferred, the work being done in a very
satisfactory manner.
On my visits to the above mentioned Lodges I had the pleasure of the comPl\ny of Bro. W. R. EVANS, Inspector of the Twenty-fifth District.
On February 27th I visited MiBBion Lodge, No. 169, at San Francisco. The
third degree was conferred, all the officers acquitting themseh>es with credit.
On March 23d, in company with the Grand Lecturer, I visited Visalia
Lodge, No. 128, at Visalia. Here I had the pleasure of meeting Past Grand
Master A. R. CONKLIN. There was a very large attendance of the brethren
from the various Lodges of the Thirty-second District. The third degree was
exemplified, and a very interesting meeting was the result.
On March 28th, I visited Friendship Lodge, No. 210, at San Jose. The
third degree was conferred on two candidates, the work being done in a very
commendable manner. The Grand Lecturer and the Inspectors of the Twenty.
sixth and Twenty-seventh Districts accompanied me on this visit.
On April 5th, in company with the Grand Lecturer and Grand Marshal, I
visited Morning Star Lodge, No. 68, at Stockton. The third degree was conferred in a very satisfactory manner. On my visit to this Lodge I had the
pleasure of meeting Past Grand Master G. B. CLAIBOURNE.
On April 6th, I visited lone Lodge, No. 80, at Ione, being accompanied by
the Grand Lecturer and the Senior Grand Deacon. A number of the officers
and members of the neighboring Lodges were present, and the work of the
three degrees was exemplified by the Grand Lecturer. This meeting was to

1895.)

Grand Lodge of California.

21

me of especial interest, it being at the home 9f my boyhood, and carried me
~ack to. many happy inc!dents of my schoolboy days, and of pleasant associations with my Masonic brethren of Amador county. I regret that sickness
pre~ented the presence at this meeting of Bro. ROBERT AITKEN, the very
efficient Inspector of the District.
On April 29th, I visited King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260, at San Francisco.
The third degree was conferred fa a manner of which the officers of that
Lodge may justly feel proud.
On M~y 10th, I visited Sacramento Lodge, No. 40, at Sacramento, being
accompamed by the Grand Lecturer. The third degree was conferred in a
manner ·that convinced me that this Lodge had made no mistake in the
iielection of its officers. At this meeting I had the pleasure of meeting
Past Grand Master E. C. ATKINSON and Paet Grand Chaplain T. H. B.
A.'IDERSON,
On May 11th, I visited Oakland Lodge, No. 188, at Oakland. The
Grand Secretary, Grand Orator, Grand Lecturer and Grand Sword Bearer
aecompanied me. There was a large attendance of brethren from different
Lodges of this jurisdiction. The third degree of Masonry was conferred upon
WALTER CABEY Wu.cox. This young brother has grown to manhood under
the fostering care of the Grand Lodge of California. Many of you will
remember the touching iricident of hie introdu?tion to the Grand Lodge, at
the Annual Communication in 1879, then but a c)lild of tender years, by
Paet Grand Master N. GREENE lJURTIS-the collection which was raised
among the brethren for his immediate needs, and the appropriation made
for hie maintenance and education; and which was continued annually until
Au~st let, 1890, when hie guardian, Bro. NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING,
considered further help unneceesary. The occasion was one of peculiar
interest, as evidenced l>y the large number of brethren present, Paet Grand
Master HIRAM NEWTON RucKER being of the number.
D~tri~uted through the proceedings from 1879 to 1891, inclusive, frequent
men~IO~ IB made of w ALTER WILCOX and the sad history of his orphanage ;
and 1t is unneceesary to dwell upon it here; suffice it to say, his boyhood has
been most commendable, with every promise of future usefulnees.
· At the close of the Lodge ceremonies a sumptuous banquet was served,
and after appropriate responses• from Past Grand Master RuoKB&, Grand
Orator DEUPREY, and others, our young brother spoke of the earnest desire
he had so long entertained of becoming a member of the great brotherhood,
which had bestowed such kindneBB upon him; expreBBed his appreciation,
his loyalty and devotion to Masonry, and with a heart overflowing with gratitude and emotion, gave me in charge, for the Grand Lodge, the tags which
~e had wo~n on hie child pilgrimage to California. These I have deposited
m the archives of the Grand Lodge. The great interest you have ever evinced
in this child of misfortune, seemed to require some notice of his advent into
t~e ranks of Masonry~ T~e officers of Oakland Lodge are deserving of men·
t1on on 11ccount of the admirable manner in which they did the work on that
oocasion.
In 1;onnection with this case, I received the following from Escambia Lodge
'
No. 15, at Pensacola, Florida:

22

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

1895.]

PKNSACOLA, FLORIDA, May 20th, 1895.
At a meeting of Escambia Lodge, No. 15, F. & .A. M., held May 20th,
1895, a committ.ee was appointed to draft resolutions expressive of the feeling
of this Lodge in the case of WALTER Wu.cox, to be communicated to the
Grand Master of California, and through him to the Masonic bodies of the
State.
The following resolution was reported and adopted : -

Be it ReRol~, That while Masonry is founded on, and its cardinal pnnc1ples are, Faith, Hope and Charity, its teachings, traditions and practice,
protection of the widow, care of the destitute orphans, relief of the distreBBed,
and brotl:terly love exercised in its broadest and fullest meanin~, - the Christian charity followed to complete consummation in this instance is admirable
in its devotion to the tenets of Masonry, and is worthy of the emulation of
all Masons, in all lands. The care and guardianship of one's own blood is a
binding tie-a God imposed obligation.
When the friendless, helpless orphan is carefully brought to man's estate,
fully equipped for the battle of life by those bound only by the Mystic Tie, it
is of the truest and purest Christian charity. Escambia Lodge sends greetingd
to the Masons of the Golden State for this charity, so pure, so true, extended
to one of Florida's sons.
. .
J. M. HILLARD, D. G. M. }
OommiUu.
JoHN M. BuRGE, P. M.
w. E. ANDERSON, P. G. M.
On May 18th, I visited Yo~nt Lodge, No. 12, at Napa. The Grand
Lecturer and J . .A. BECKWITH, Master of Live Oak Lodge, No, 61, and H. H.
KNAPP, Inspector of the Seventeenth District, accompanied me on this visit.
The third degree was conferred by the Grand Lecturer, at the request of the
Master of the Lodge, and it is unnecessary to say that the work was well
done. .All the Lodges comprising the Seventeenth District were represented
at this meeting.
On May 24th, in company with the Grand Chaplain, Grand Lecturer and
the Inspector of the Twent.y-fifth District, I visited Live Oak Lodge, No. 61,
at Oakland. Tbe third degree was conferred in a manner which reflected
credit on the officers of that Lodge. A large number of brethren were present
from the various Lodges of the District.
On June lat, I visited Vitruvius Lodge, No. 145, at Bloomfield. The
Grand Lecturer and the Inspector of the Sixteenth District accompanied ine
on this visit. There was a large attendance· and the third degree was conferred in a very satisfactory manner. .A very pleasant feature connected
with this meeting was the presence at the banquet table of the wives and
daughters of the brethren. In my judgment, this custom should be of more
frequent occurrence at our festive gatherings.
On Jnne 15th, I visited St. John's Lodge, No. 37, and Howard Lodge,
No. 96, both located at Yreka. The Grand Lectnrer and the Inspector of
the Second District accompanied me. .All the Lodges of the District were
represented at this meeting, many of the brethren traveling more than thirty
miles for that purpose. The third degree was exemplified, and a very profit.
able and enjoyable evening spent with the brethren of Siskiyou county.
()n June 18th, in company with the Grand Lecturer, I visited R~ading
Lodge, No. 254, at Redding. Six of the eight Lodges comprising the Fourth

'

Chand Lodge of OaUfornia.

23

District were represented. At this meeting, also, many brethren traveled
over "rough and rugged roads" for a distance of from fifteen to fifty miles, in
order that they might be present, many of them being pioneers of Masonry in
California. The third degree was exemplified, and it was far past " low
twelve" when a very pleasant meeting was closed.
On June 20th, I visited Oolusa Lodge, No. 240, at Colusa, the Grand
Lecturer and the Inspector of the Thirteenth District being with me. Tbe
third degree was exemplified, and a pleasant and profitable evening was spent
1
with the brethren.
- On June 22d, I visited Woodland Lodge, No. 156, at Woodland, in company with the Grand Lectnrer. Six of the Lodges comprising the Nineteenth
District were represented. The third degree was exemplified, and a profitable
evening was the result (.lf thi. meeting.
On July 6th, I visited Alameda Lodge, No. 167, at Centreville, the Grand
Lecturer accompanying me. There were a large number present, many beillg
visiting brethren from Lodges in the District. The third degree was con·
ferred in a very creditable manner.
On Jnly 13th, in company with the Inspector of the T~enty-fonrth District, I visited ..11.lamo Lodge, No. 122, at Walnut Creek. There was a large ·
attendance, and the third degree was conferred in a manner which reflected
much credit upon the officers of the Lodge. Here I again had the pleasure of
congratulating the brethren upon the presence at the banquet table of their
wives and daughters.
On July 20th I visited Monwrey Lodge, No. 217, at Monterey. Tbe _Grand
Lecturer and Grand Bible Bearer accompanied me on this visit, The third
degree was conferred in a manner that elicited encomiums from all present.
There was a large attendance of members of the Lodge and visitors from
many Lodges of the District; also from Oakland, Ran Jose and San Rafael.
On .August 3d I visit-ed La Fayette Lodge, No. 126, at Sebastopol, with the
Inspector of.the Sixteenth District. The thit"d degree was conferred in a very
correct and impressive manner by the officers of the Lodge.
On .August 9th I visited Callayomi Lodge, No. 282, at Middletown. The
Master of the Lodge was prevented from being" present by reason of sickness.
Past Master JAMES PARRISH presided, and the third degree was conferred in a
very creditable manner.
On .Angust 17th I visited San Benito Lodge, No. 211, at Hollister, in com·
pany with the Inspector of the Twenty-eighth District. The manner in
which the third degree was conferred was an evidence that the officers of this
Lodge are interested in the work. There was a large attendance of the
brethren at this meeting, and from an inspection of the register -I found that
the attendance at their meetings was larger in proport;ion to membership than
any other Lodge visited.
On .August 31st I visited Pajaro Lodge, No. llO, at Watsonville. On this
visit I again l;lad the pleasqre of the company of the Inspector of the Twenty.
eighth District. · The third degree' was conferred in a very impressive manne_r.
Tqe attendance was large and much interest manifested.
, On September 14th, in company with the Grand Lecturer and the Inspector

24.

Proce.edings of the

[Oct. 8,

of the District, I visited Abell Lodge, No. 146, at Ukiah. There was a large
attendance of the brethren from the various Lodges comprising the Fourteenth
District, also a number of brethren from Bartky Lodge at Lakeport. The
third ·degree was exemplified and much interest manifested.
On September 16th I visited Hartl.ey Lodge, No. 199, at Lakeport. The
Grand Lecturer and the Inspector of the Fifteenth Dietrict were with me on
this visit. The third degree was conferred in a very impressive manner by
the officers of the Lodge. There was a very large attendance, every Lodge in
the District being well represented. A large delegation of brethren from
Abell Lodge at' Ukiah paid a fraternal visit on this occasion, and I am convinced that much good resulted from the meeting.
On September 21st I visited Oroville Lodge, No. 103, at Oroville. The Inspector had called a District meeting, and all the Lodges comprising the
Eleventh District were well represented. The third degree was conferr'ld in
a very impressive manner by the officers of the Lodge, and a very pleasant
and profitable evening was spent with the brethren of Butte county. The
Grand Lecturer and the Inspector of the District were with me on this visit.
On September 25th, in comp:i.ny with a number of brethren of Live Oalc ·
Lodge, I visited Arcturu.9 Lodge, No. 180, at Petaluma.. The Inspector had
made this the occasion for a District meeting, and there was a large attend·
ance from the various Lodges. The third degree was conferred on two candi·
dates, the Worshipful Master and officers of the Lodge doing the work in one
case and the Inspector of the District and members of Live Oak Lodge in the
other. In both cases the work was performed in a perfect and impressive
manner.
. At each and all of these meetings I have invariably been received in the
most fraternal spirit by the brethren, and the many courtesies extended me
by the officers and members of the various Lodges are remPmbered with
much pleas"Q.re, and I feel justified in saying that much good will result therefrom. A sumptuous repast concluded ea.ch meeting, and an hour or more of
social intercours!l wa.s profitably passed with the brethren, and in every instance save one it was my pleasure to congratulate them on the absence of
wine at the.banquet table. Temperance is one of our cardinal virtues, and
every Mason should practice it at all times, and more especially in the Lodgeroom or its environments. I have endeavored to impress this upon the minds
of my brethren, aud hope that the advice I have given may result in good.
On September 22d, I paid a fraternal visit to our venerable Past Grand
Master, JOHN .AJiHBY Turr, at Madison, Yolo county. Bro. T UTT ie now in
his eighty-second year. He was our second Grand Master, and is now one
of the few living representatives who participated in the organization of this
Grand Lodge. He is comfortably situated, and occupies most of his time in
reading. He informed me that the ca.res of this world sat lightly upon him
and that his wants are fully supplied, for which he expressed his gratitude to
thia Grand Lodge, I would recommend that "the appropriation for our venerable brother be continued.
The affairs of our Home for widows and orphans have not, I regret to say,
progressed with that .rapidity I could have wished ; but progress has been

1895.J

1

Grand Lodge o/ California.

made, the details of which will be submitted for your consideration by the
President of the Board.
To the various Grand Officers who have been called upon from time to time to
assist me in the discharge of my duties, and who have so promptly responded
to the call, I tender my grateful acknowledgments. Especial thanks are due
from me, and are cheerfully tendered to our Very Worshipful Grand Secretary, whose advice, so often sought, and so freely given, has been of great
assistance to me, and has materially lightened the responsibilities placed upon
me. His courtesies will always be kindly remembered. I am deeply indebted
to the Worshipful Grand Lecturer for the never ceasing attention to the impor•
tant duties of his office.
It is due to the Southern Pacific Company and its officers in authority that ·
recognition and record · should be made of the voluntary assistance which has
been rendered me in the discharge of charitable Masonic duties. In every
case where transportation in this State has been asked for distressed and
worthy persons, entitled to Masonic care and assistance, it has been cheerfully furnished without charge; and for these repeated ancl continued favors
the Southern Pacific Company is entitled to this mention, and to the thanks
of this Grand Body.
Brethren, I return to you my thanks for the high honor you have con·
ferred upon me, and assure you that the remembr!!.nce of your favors will
ever remain fresh in my memory. May that God in whom we place our trust,
guide us in the future as in the past, and may the principles which we profess be the rule of our action in future life, thus preparing us for admission
into that Celestial Lodge, where we shall fore\fer be free from labor and dwell
'
in harmony throughout the endlesa ages of eternity.
.

JAMES BAUNTY STEVENS,
Grand M a8ter.

Which was ordered to be referred to a special committee of five,
and the Deputy Grand Master named the fo!l9wing. br.e thren .to constitute such committee. .
.
On the Adil1·esa of the (}rand Maller: ..•. . ..•

f Hiram Newton Rucker,
1 Benjamin· Franklin Thomas,
Edward Swift West,
Detlef,.Haneen, . . . . . ,
Joseph Bailey Oooke.

1

At the request of the Grand Orator, the Grand Master announced
that the delivery of t}j.e Annual Oration would be made the special
order for one o'clock Thursday afternoon. It was also ordered that
immediately after the Oration be fixed as a special hour to pay·suitable
tribute to the distinguished character and eminent services of our
illustrious brother Past Grand Master WILLIAM ·aA:r:nw~~ B~L~HEB
arid all the brethren present, who may so desire, are requested to pa;
such tribute to his memory as to them may seem meet and prop.e r.:
The Grand Lodge was then called off until one-thirty o'clock this
afternoon.

26

[Oct. 8,

ProceedingB of the

.

}

AFTERNOON SESSION,

'l'uesday, October 8th, ..4.. L. 5895.

The Gr°and Lodge was called on at one-thirty o'olock, the Grand
Master presiding.
Bro. ANDREW MuRBAY HENDRY, from the Oommittee on Oredentials,
reported the following officers and representatives of chartered
Lodges, delegates from Lodges nnder dispensation, and Past Masters
by service within this Jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to
seats, viz.: fromr EDWARD WILLIAM P&&BODY, Master;
Jh:rray AsoRoFT, Senior Warden;

WILLIAM' GRAHAM BROWN, Junior Warden;
RoBERT HENRY BAROLAY,
GlllORGR CHILDS,
FRANKLIN HENRY DAY,
C4ltfomia, ..... .. . No. 1, ••
MORRIS MAROH ESTEE,
GEOkall: 'JOHNSON,
•lHERMANN FBANKLTN MULLER,
ED.WARD PEABODY,
CHARLJIS LEWIS PATTON,
WILLIAM THOMAS REYNOLDS,
Western St,a;r, •••• •No. 2, .•• . JAMES LEE RIOHABDSON, Master and Past Master.
Teholma, ••.••... . : .No. 3, .. . . FRANK LYTLR THIRKIELD, Master.
Benicia . ...•.•... . No. 5, .• .. FBEDERIOK PHILIP WRINMANN, Representative.
Tuolumne, .• ..•• . No. 8, .••. GlllORGE WOODBURN NIOOL, Master.
Corinthian, • .. . .. . No. 9,. : .. FRANK B MILLER, Master antl Paet Master.
San JO#, ... •..•.. . No. 10, .. j ERNEST WOODBURY CONANT, Master;

I RALPH LowE, Past Master.

.

GEORGE WASHINGTON STROHL, Senior Warden;
M
Yount, ..... . . . . •.. No. 12,. • JAMES BAUNTY STRVRNS }
' Past asters.
{
H ENBY H A Y KNAPP,
Nevada, . ••• . ..... •No. 13, . . j CARL LoUIS MULLER, Master;
I EDWARD MYERS PRESTON, Past Master.
Temple, ••. •.. .. • . •No. 14, •••. ROBERT POTTER HILL, Master and Paet Master.
MIOHARL DAVID LININGER, Master and P •.Master;
Eureka, ••. . .. ..... No. 16,.. JONATHAN FULTON, Senior Warden;
JORN CARLTON wOODAB.D, Junior a.rden;
JAOOll IlABT Nur, Past Master.

l

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

N
p, 'f< i.te Ui .
nwn, • · · 0 • 17• · •
ar a

Qi)rand ~odge.

~n

1895.]

w

27

JUSTIN LADAGNOUS, .Maet?r and Past Master;
JEAN MARIE DUPAS, Semor Warden;
JULES AURAoou, Junior Warden;
{ EMMANCRL ~AAS, I p t M t
I as as ere.
DANIKL LRVY,

Mountain Sh,a;k., . • No, 18, . • j FRANK RUMRILL WRHE, MBBter;
I STANLEY ANDREW SMITH, Past Master.
San Joaquin, •..• .. No. 19,, . j JOSEPH WILLIAM CAVIS, Past Master and Rep. ;
1 WILLIAM ABRAHAM DAVIES, Past Master.
Wa,,hington, .... , .No, 20, .. {CHARLES lh:IsEN, Jr., Senior Wa.rden;

.

.
•

l

NATHANIEL GR:e:EN:e: CURTIS, I Past Masters.
. f
EDWIN GLOVER,

Occidental, .• , .. . , . No. 22,. ,

.
MIOHAEL JOSEPH SAVAGE, MaBter;
GlllORGE W&BSTER TURNER, Senior Warden;
} Paet Masters.
lh:NRY BURNER,
HARRISON ALRXMl'DRR JONES,

.
.

·
Maduon, ......... No. 23, .. {FRANK A VRB, Master;
JOHN CRISP COLEMAN, } Paet Mastera.
EDWARD COLEMAN,
Mariposa,, .. .••. . .• No. 24, .•.. FRll:DERIOK WILLIAM SOHLAGETER, Master.

Georgetoum., · ... .• • No. 25, . •.. GEORGE CHARLES R.&u, Master and Past Master.
El Dorado, ....... . No. 26,. ... FBEnRRIOK FRRDINAND BARBS, Master aqd Paet M.

Trinity, . . , , , •••• , No. Zl, .. ~ DETLli:F HANSEN, Master and Past Master;
JOHN MoMURRAY, Sr. Warden and Paet Master;
.
WILEY JAMES TINNIN, Pa.st Master.
(THEODORE HALL MAODONALD, MaSterand P, M.;
.
I THOMAS TRll:BELL, Junior Warden;
•
Golden Gate, •. •. ... No. 30, . , EDWARD MORTIMER COTTRELL,
Past Mastel'll.
AMAS.& PLUMMER FLAGLOB,
.
' GEORGE JOHN ROBE,
..
WILLIAM SOHUYLER MOSRS,

i'

!

l

Go'ld Hill . ..•...• .. No. 32, .•.. WALTER JANSEN, Master and PBBt Mas~.r.
Ophi:r,. ..•...•.... . No. 33, .... GEORGE L:e:WIS TRUii:, Master and Past Master,
San I>Ugo, ..•.... . No. 35, .. .. GILBERT CoNGER ARNOLD, Master.
&tint John'1, . • . .• . No. 37, ••• JAMES MAROELLUB PowERB, Junior Warden.
Santa Cruz,, . , ... . No. 38, .. J EDWARD SWIFT WEST, Master and Past Maeter;
I JOHN SEVERIO, Past Master.
Yuba, : •.•. . •..... No. 39, •... RUEL HALLOWAY WAGGONER, Maeter.

}
JoHNWALTER Born,
Mas
R UFUS BURNHAM HARMON, p
ters.
aet
POWELL SAMUEL LAWSON,
WILLIAM MONBOR PETRIK,
.
Martinez, .•...... No. 41. •... WILLIAM 8:e:WALL WELLS, Master a.nd Paet Master.
SM'r4mento

' . .... .

No 40
• '..

I

Loa .A.ngelu, •••• . • • No. 42, •. ~ CARL FBll:DRRIOK AUGUST LAST, Master and P.M.;

·

. /.SAMUEL PBAGER, Past Master.

Procewings of the

28-

·

[Oct. s,:

!

fFBANK RANDOLPH WHITCOMB, Master;

La Grohlge, .... . .. No. 99, .. j CHARLES SIMON, M68ter and Past Master;

1 ROBERT GRAOBY, Past Mast.er.

JOSEPH LIPPMAN,
MC1Unt Moriah, •.. . No. 44, •. {DAVID MATHBWB RICHARDS, Past Masters.
DAN JOBllPH EDGAR,
RoBERT WILSON MURPHY,
CrucenJ,, •• •••.•... No. 45..... JAMES BROOKING, Junior Warden.
Ter,aa, •.•. • ...•. No. 46, .•.. THOMAS FLINT, Jr., Past Master and Rep.
Michigan City, ..• . No. 47, .••. ALEXANDER DOLT, Master a~d Past Master.
IUirwiatnwn, .. . . .. No. 51, .•.. ALBERT MORRIS, Senior Warden.
Suimn, ...•...... . No. 55, .... JEROME BONAPARTE RIOHABDBON; Past Master.
Volcano ....... , •.. . No. 56, •... WARREN QUINOY MABON, Master and Past Master.
Santa.Rosa, ....•.. No. 57, .... JOHN MoGILL LAUGHLIN, Master.
Gravel Range, .•.. • No. 59, .•.. JERll:ll!lAH WATTS, Senior Warden and P. M.
.
{ JOHN ALLISON BBOKWITR, Master ;
Live Oak, •....... . No. 61,'.. EDWARD HENBY HART, Senior Warden;
HABllY CHARLBB BUSH,
l p t M te~
-JUNIA JOSIAH WARNER, f as
as a.

l

~ ADOLPH COHN, PaRt Master.
Le:eingtmi, .•.. . ..• No. 104, .... RroHABD QUINN, Master.
Arcata, ••. • ••... • No. 106, .. I THOMAS DEVLIN, Master and Past Master.
.
.
l NELSON BAKER JOHANSEN, Junior Warden.
Pajaro, . . . • . . . . . No. 110, . . .. JULIUS LBE BUBBEOK, Junior Warden.

Chico, ...•. ...... No. 111, .. j HARMAN MoCARGAR, Master;

·
1 THOMAS BIO.KNELL, Past Master.
Summit; . ........ No. 112, ..• . GEORGE THOMAS MoCABE, Master.
Concord, •......•. No. 117,. ..• WILLIAM ROWLAND JONES, Past Mast.er and Rep.
Clinton, •. . ...... •No. 119, ..•• WILLIAM GooDALL, Master.
BENJAMIN ARMER, Master;
.TAOOB GEORGE LEIB.OLD, Senior Warden;
] PHILIP J AOOBOVICS, Junior warden ;

Fidelity, ... . ....• No. 120,. ·

l~~:P~:';s,

l

Past Masters. .

J All!BS MICHAEL ELLIS,
JAOOll VOOBSANGEB,
W .l.LTER HICKS BIGGS, Master and Past Master;
Alamo, ., · · · .. .. No.122, .. GEORGEWASHINGTONMOPHEBTBBB,Jr. Warden;
{
·
JUSTUS MICHAEL HINMAN, Past Master.
SotoyO'!M, .• •••••• No. 123, •... GEORGE H WARl!'IBLD, Junior Warden,

Amador, ..••..... . No. 65, .. I JAMES HARRIS, Master;
••
I WALLAOE KAY, Past Master.
1
M< • Star
N 0 68 j ORBIN STAPLES HBNDERSON, Past Ma.st.er.;_.
•
' • • 1 HENRY CALCUTT KEYES, Past Master and.Rep.
orntlllg
'· · · · ·

EnU!rprise, . ... ..• No. 70... j ALONZO GRAFFIB, Master;
•
.
1 LEONARD ARTHUR WALTON, Sen10r Warden.

Table Mciuntail'I,. . No. 124, .. j WILLI.All JAMES, Master and Past Mast.er;

Bear Mountain, ... No. 76, . •• . GEORGE THOMAS, Rep_reaent&tive.

.

Petaluma, •.••..•. . No. 77, .••• CHABLBB 0BINGTON PERKINS, Master .and P. M.

1 Louis GooDDAY, Past Master.

·

LafayetU, . . . . . .. No. 126, .••. CHARLES KIMBLE, Master and Past Master.

Oala;;,.as, ...... . . No. 78, •. j MOBBS THORPE, Master; •
•
1 ADOLPHUS HBNBY CoULTKR, Representative.

GusTAv CARL BEOKH, Senior Warden;
RICHARD EMILLoms MUNK, Junior Warden;
RALPH DE CLAIRMONT, l Past Masters.
LUDWIG SOHUMAOHEB, f
.
VUalia; ••... ..••• No. 128, •• ••DANIEL MoFADYBON, Master.
Nicolam, ......• .• No. 129, .••. JOHN STEINililllAN, Master and Past Master.

l

Hermann, ••..... No. 127,..

Humboldt.~ ....... . No. 79,. • JOHN FBBDiliBIOK MoGEOBGE, Master;
EDWARD HUDSON PERCY, Past Master. .
Ione, •••••••••.••. •No. 80, .•.. JAOOB SUBFAOE, Master and Paet Maste~.
·Rising &ar, .• ..... No. 83, ..• . CHARLES DUVALL AKERS, Master an~ Past Master.

Vesper, •••.....•. . No. 84•.. j GEORGE NOLLMAN, Master; M
~ JAMES LOUIS BARHAM, Past
aster. .

H<J'llXllNl, • •• ••• ••••• No. 96, .... FREDERICK ALEXANDER AUTENBIETH, Master.
]Iornito1, • , ••.••.. No, 98, ..•• WILLIAM Al>AHS, Master and Past Master.

. ..

Oroville, •.••.... . No. 103,. . j DANIEL HILTON, Master;

NaWm.a, •.. .......• No. 64, •••• CRBIBTIAN Lirnw1G EcKLON, Master and P .· M.

Henry Olay, ..... .• No. 95, •. j JONAH NIOKOLB, Master;
1 Loms KATZ, Past Master.

.

•Manzanita .... .. . . No. 102, .... FRBDERICK W. BANKS, Representative.

Gt(). Washing~, .. No. 62, .... DANIBL T BARTLETT, Master and Past Master.

Qu:itman, •.. . ..... No. 88, . • j ALExANDBB RAUOH, Master and Past Maste~; .
.
~ JAMBS REDINGTON, Past Master.
Rose'8 Bar, .. •. ... No. 89, .••• ALLEN PRESLEY, ~ste.r and Past Master.
North Star, .. .. . ... No. 91, .••. ISRAEL SMITH MATHBWS, Master and Past Me.stet.
Acacia, .•......... No. 92, ..•. FBANOIS NICHOLLS, Master and Past Master.
St. Hdena,. ....... No. 93, .•. . JOHN HENBY STBVEB, Master.

Grand Lodge of California.

1895.J

l

Woodbridge, ••.... No. l3l, .. {JOHN BRALY CoBY, Master;
JOHN BOOTH LILLIE,
lPast Masters.
EDWARD RBEB THOMPSON, f
·
Vacaville, ........ No. 134, •.•• CHABLEa HENRY BALL, Junior Warden.

•

rMARTIN JONES, Master ;
GEORGE HAAB, Junior Warden;
THOlllAS ANDERSON,
}
• • · 1MOUBRAY RoBiliBT DUNDAS
JOSEPH OLIVBR JEPHSON, ' . Past Mastera.
GEORGE PENLINGTON,
THOM..l.S PENLINGTON,

Pacific, • ... .. .... No. 136

I

1895.] '

[Oct. S,

30

Proceemngs of the

Crocket,t, ••••••••. No. 139,..

THOMAS RoWLANDS, Master ; .
CARSTEN HILDEBRANDT,
}
·U-{ JoHN CHRISTIAN GERHARD 'BBUSE, Past .waaters.

EUc Grove, •.... .• No. 173, ..•. HENBY ALTuoKEB, Master and Past Master,
Phlll'nia;, •••• • •••. • No. 178, . . j MILFORD BYRON TERRASS, Master and P. M.;
l HENBY .A KELLER, Past Master.

Mendocino, . . .... . No. 179, .• . . CABSIHEB J AOKBON :WOOD, Master and Past M.

Curlil, .......... . No.140, .... CHARLES HENBY COOLll;Y, Past Master. . .
(}'f'(lft<m, ........ • No. 141, ...• ROBERT SOOT!' HENLEY LEATHERS, M. anrl P. M.
CHABLICB EDWIN HOLLISTER, Master and P. M.
143, . . HowARD DouGLAB KEROHEVAL, Junior Warden;
Franklin, . ... . .. No.
}P. Mastera•
{ WILLIAM JOHNSTON,
.ALFRED THOMAS J AMICB REYNOLDS,

.Arcturua, •• . ...•• No. 180, •. { FRANK KAVANAUGH LIPPITI', Master;

EDWARD WILLIAM MERVYN EVANS, Sr. Warden;
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN TUTTLE, Past Master.
Ruuian RitJfS..... No. 181, .... THoM~S MoQUISTON, Past Master.
Meridiam., .. . . . .• •No. 182, . .•• FRANK JOHN STEELE, Master,
Clean'.Lake,. . . .... No.183,. ... DANIELJONEB, Master.
Sierra Valley, .... No.184,. ... GEORGE WOOD, Senior Warden.
Evening St,a,r, .. . .• No. 186, •. •• EowARD WILLIAM BATHURST, Master and P. M.
Keith, ........ . . .. No. 187,. ... JOHN FRANK KIMBALL, Junior Warden.
GILBERT BARBER DANIELS, Senior Warden.
Oakland, .. .. .. .' ..No. lB8,.. GZAOHARY TAYLOR GILPIN, Junior Warden/
lp t M
) EOBGE PATTEBBON,
GEORGE CLEMENT PERKINS, f . as . asters.

CHABLICB BoN:m, Master ;
FRANK BAOON LADD, Senior Warden;
EDWARD BENTLEY CHUROH, Junior Warden;
Oriental, ••••••... No. 144, •.

~~A~:~ANT CoLE,

THOMAS KYLE,
GEORGE HOWARD THOMPSON
lJoHN ToNNINGSON,
'

.Abell, ...... . .... . No.146, ..

l

1.

Past Mastera.

WILLIAM TRUllAN Km1twooD,. Master;
FBANOIS MARION MABON, Jumor Warden.

Eel Rit#, .. ...... No. 147, .. ·j FRANK WRIGHT 0LIVICB, Junior Warden;
I JORN WALTER R.YAN, Past Master.
·La.aim, •.• ••...• . No. 149,. ..• WILLIAM BBOOKHAN, Past Master and Rep.
Molino, .... .' ..... No. 150,. ... HENBY WEYMANN, Senior Warden•.
Palmyra,. ....... . No. 151, .• . ,JOHN PEARSON, Master.
FBANOIS ELSWORTH BAKER, Master a.nd Past M. ;
•
THADDEUS STEPHllNS SPAULDING, Junior Warden;
Woodland, • .. • . .. No. 156,.. BYBON
. BALL,
}Paat.M asters.
•
WILLIAM HENBY CURSON,
Gibscmvil.[,e, ....... No.158, .... JoHN WIEGAND, Master.
pil.<Jt 8(1),, •..•..• No. 160, •••• WILLIAM ABOHIBALD, Junior Warden.
'l{eyltone,., ••• , • .. No. 161, ••.. HORAOE BKLL ALLEN, Master.
(HARBY J OSICPH LASK, Master ;
\ CHARLES PARSHALL OVERTON, Senior Warden ;
:&uelriqr, ...... ... No, 166, •• ~ CHABLICB HENBY BRYAN,
WILLIAM AARON l.>OUD,
Past Masters.
JORN MENZIES SlrlITH,
\.FBEDBIOO GUILLERMO VoBB, .
EDWIN WHIPPLE, Senior Warden;
.Alameda, ..••..•. No. 167,.. RUDOLPH VoLHEB, Junior Warden; ·
{ ANDB.EW JAOKBON HARE, Past Master.
BENJAMIN ASBURY RANKIN, Master and P. M.;
San Ma,k(), ..•••• No. 168,.. WILLIAM HEDLEY, Senior Warden;
.
WILLIAM HENBY GARDINER, Past Master.
(CYRUS CLINTON Dow, Master;
JAMES PEVEBLY HODGDON, }
Mi.uWn, · •· .. · ··.No. 169,.' JOSEPH GRAFTON SMITH,
Pu\ Mastera• .
.
MARTIN VAN BUBEN TAYLOR,
·
CoLUMllUSWATBBllOUBE,

Northern Light, . . •No. 190, .. • . ERASTUS EDWABT) RAWLINGS, Master.
JAMES SAUNDERS, Master ;
Marin, .......... No. 191, .. WILLIAM N ANDERSON
l
.
{ FRANK MARION Aim~. f Paat Masters.
.

. .

~

t

.,

Santa Barbara, .... No. 192, .... SAMUEL MANoHEBTEB, Ma.star.
Ferndale, •.•..•• • • No. 193, •.•. OsoAB DUNWBEATH ·WHITl'IEB, Senior Warden.

Mountain View, .. .No. 194,.. { Crni;s PHILBBIOK BEBBY, Master and Pa.st Master;
JAooB S MOOKBEJC, Senior Warden;
•
HOUKAN TBULSEN, Junior warden.
.
IJfl.ckeye, ••••••••• No. 195, ••.. GEORGE THOMPSON, Ma.ster.
San Si'111LUT1, ••••• •No. 196, •. j RITNEB DoDBON, Master and Past Master;
1 SAMUEL GUTHRIE, Past Master.
Wilmington, •.... No. 198, ..•. CHABLICB EDwARD MIToHELL, Master and Past M.
HMUey, .•. • .•••• No. 199,.. {CURTIS JEll'FERSON MONROE, Master;
Loom PEDBAZZINr, Senior .warden,
Sil'l1ey'l!ille, . . ..... No. 20i, .. .. <JLAusFBAml:, Junior Wardeµ.
.
{GEORGE VABOOE, Ma.star;
·
Pentalpha, .. .. ... No. 202,.. CORNELIUS WELLES PBNDLETON l
.
GRANVILLE QUINOY STEWART, • f Put Masters.

l
I

31

Grand Lodge of· California.

!.

Confldmce, .•• .• . . No. 203,., j WILLIAM StrrTON, Past Master;

•

.

1 FREDERIOK 0BRIOK OAKICB, Representative.

(FRANCIS ALVIN ABBOT'l' Master•
'
'
JoHN KING ALEUNDICB,
FBEDEBIOK WILLIAM SoHMEOHEL, Past Mastem.
l WILLIAM V ANDEBHURST,
Newville, • •.• , .. • •No. 20.~, .... SAMUEL STEPHEN MARK~, Senior Warden.

Salina.a, .. ....... . No. 204, . .

i
I

f

Stanillaua, •.•••. No. l!OO, •• {GEORGE RUSSELL STODDARD, Master:·

.

CHABLICB LEWIS ADOLPHUS HEWZL, }P ~
WILLIAM HENBY HA'ITON,
· •
rs,

1895.]

[Oct. 8,

Procee.dings of the

32

.Adin, . • • • • • • . ... No. 250,. ••• w ARREN DALE PAOKWOOD, Master.

.Anaheim, .••.•••.. NQ. 2W, .... WILLIAM HENRY C!IY?iOWETH, Master and .P. M.
.
·
N
j THO.MAS POWELL EMIGH, Master and Past Master;

.

Rw Vista, ·•.... ··

0

208

•

l

•·· (EDWARD CHARLES DOZIER, Sr. Warden

Ki'll!} DaWl'B, •.• . No. 209, · ·

Bodie, . . • . . . . . ••• No: 252, •.•. THOMAS ASH KKABLEB, Representative.
Landmark, ...•.. No. 253, .... JOHN SAMUEL TUTT, Master and Past Master.
Readi11g, . .•.....• No. 254, .... FRANKLIN PIEROE PRIMM, Master and P. Maater.
Welcome, •....... . No. 255,'.... WILLIAM HORAOE SAN~ORN, Master.

and P. M.

RoBERT EDGAR J AO!', Master and Past Master ;
FREDERIOK .ADA;MS,
lPast Masters.
GEORGE BREOK STANIFORD, l

.
· ·
N
10
I DENNIS VINOENT MAHONEY, Junior Warden;
Friendahtp,....... o. 2 , .. 1
C
p t M te
{ WILLIAM HENRY

LARK,

as

33

GTand Lodge of California.

Lodi,. .......... . No. 2.56,. ·

i:'8 r.

PLEA.SANT HAY TINDALL, Master;
GEORGE WORLEY LB Mom, Senior Warden;
{
NATHAN ROSWELL BARBOUR, Past Master• .

San Benito, •...•. No. 211, .... JOHN ADOLPH STEINBEOK, Past Master and Rep.

Penrhyn, ...... • .• No. 258, •... JAMES PENPRAZE MEDLAND PHILLil'B, M. and P. M.

So. San Fran'ro, . . N~. 212, .•.• ELIAS 0 HARE, Past Me.ater.
San Buenaventura, No. 214, ..•. WILLIS PHILLIP LINOOLN, Senior Warden.
.
N
15
j EDWARD BELL LovEJOY, Senior Warden;
2

E:vergreen, ...... .. No. 259,. ... KINGSBURY SANBORN, Master.

Oak G7rrve, • • • . • •

o.

GUSTA VE GUNZENIJORFEB, Maste~;

JF

' .. ( J A.MKS BEBTOR MERRITT, Pe.at Master.

mg

S,0 lomon' 8

' • ••

111 0 260
'

GEORGE CHARLES DAWSON, }

'· •

{

WILL~ FILMER,

Pe.at Masterff.

ALBERT FRIIDER!OK KNOBP,

'""-'·
No 216 .• j JOHN P. FRASER,
lPast Masters •
..,.,,-..,,.... .... ....
•
' ( JA.MEB FRANOESS LOGAN, f

Twcan, ..... ... .. No, 261, .... JOSEPH EDWIN RATHBUN, Master and P. Maater.

Monterey, .... , .. . No. 217, ...• THO.MAB GRAFTON LAMBERT, Master and Past M.

Lompoc, .•..... ... No. 262,. ·

Mosaic,.... . . .•. No. 218, •.•• wATKIN WILLIAM WYNN, Representative.
IJ<Jloney, • •• .•••. No. 220,. ... DELOS DEWOLF D11:NURE, Master and Past Ma~ter.

Inyo, ... ........ . No. 221,. ..• THO.MAI!! CARROLL BoLAND, Master and Past M.
N 224,
~FRANK SABINUS R1011:, Senior Warden; ·
0
Bah:rlfi,dd,. · · · · ·•

'

••

Brooldyn, .••..... No. 225, •.

l A.I.VAR RussELL CoNKLIN, Pe.at Master.

SAMUEL Swll!'r, Senior Warden;
·
WILLIAM ROBERT EVANS, lPaat Masters.
SAMUEL GREELY HILBORN, l

l

Ha1fllJIJl'ds, •. •••.• No. 226, •... HORATIO MANSER TlDll!PLETON, Past Master.
Solano, .•••••.•.. No. 229, •••. JOHN WILT~N WINTON, Master.
JanU'l!ille, ••...•.. No. 232,. ••• WILLIAM HEZEKIAH SIFli'ARD, Master.
Hope,. ......... . . No. 234,. ... JOHN ROBERT ENBOOE, Representative.
Hill's Ferry, ....• . No. 236, .••. ALEXANDER MUNROE WILLIA.MS, Master.
(}wuJ,alupe, •. . .... No. 237, ••.•• WILLIAM THOMAS LuoAB, Master and Past Master.
Coluaa., ..... ...... No. 240, .... JOSEPH BAILRY COOKE, Master and Paat Master.
N
4 j RoscoE EDWIN HEWITT, Master;
0 2 1
Santa .Ana,.····· ·
'· • ( MARION .ALBERT MENGES, Paat Master.
•
.r

l"

m<lf}'IW w, .. . . . . . .

l ·""'•·~

No• 242 ' . •.. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN THOMAS, Master and P. M.

0

l

HBNRY JONATHAN BURDIOK, Master;
JAMES BURROWS DEAN, Junior Warden.

North .&ut, ...... No. 266, •..• WILLIAM W ABREN SiIARTELL, Representative.
Durant, ••. , .... . . No. 268,. . . . RoBERT EDGAR, Past Master.
Olive Branch, . .. .. No. 269,. ... RoBERT LINOOLN REID, Master and Past Maater.
Pasadena, ... . . .•. No. 272, .... FLORIN LESLill: JONES, Master and Past Master.
.Anchor, ..... .. .. . No. 273, .•.. JOH.'i' WEBLEY HANSBLMAN, Master and P. ;Master.
Oakdal,e, • . . .• • ... No. 275, •••• DENNIS BURDll:TT W ARll'IELD, Sr. Warden and P. M.
Selma, • ....• ••.• No. 277, ..•• WINFIELD SOOTT ROBINSON, Master.
CHARLES L ENNIS, Master j
Southern Cal,if'a, No. 278,.. HENRY SAYRE ORME
}

~

'
FRANOIS CHUTE WOODBURY,

Past Masters.

Hanf<>rd, ...... . .. No. 279,.. j BBIOESO AHENDEY FASSETl', Master;
t ADOLPHUS GusTAVuS DOLLENMAYER, Past Master.
Madera,. •••••.... No. 280, .... JoHNWELLESKEYWATKINS, P. M. and Rep.

Mmmt Shasta, ... . No. 281, ••• • JA.MES FRANKLIN BIIDFORD, .Maaterand·P. M.
CaUayomi, .• .•. : .No. 282,., .. JOHN SOHWARTZ, Representative.
8<YUth West, •.•••• •No. 283,, ••. WALTER JAMES H:li:NDERSON, Junior Warden •
Tyrian, .• ..... ... No. 284, .••• THOMAS OTTO ARENS, Master and Past Master.

No 243 .... THO.MAS BARTLETT RUSSELL, Master and P. M.
•
•
N 244
j AUGUST .ADOLPH WREDE, Senior Warden;
.Alcatraz,········ o.
'· · HENBY BERNARD SoHINDLER, Junior Warden,

San Mi(l'Uel, ... •.. No. 285, •.•• JOHN CHARLES CURRIER, Past Master.
Paso Roblea, ...... No. 286, .... JoHN KELBRAW, Senior Warden.

Laur&, ........... No. 245, ..•• RoBERT AUGUSTUS LONG, Junior Warden.

Elrinore,., • •..... No. 289, .• I WILLIAM ERSKINE SLOAN, Past Master;

..,

_,,.ucay.l"'-•"''"'"

1

Winnedumah, •.. . No. 287, •... JOHN HENRY STOUTllNBOROUGH, Master and P. M.
( JAMES FRAN01.s JONES, Past Master and Rep.

pomqn.a, ••.•• .••. No. 246, •.• • WALTER SBEBlllAN WINTERS, Master.
DUNOAN DONALD ALLISON, Master;
Fresno .... . . ....• No. 247,. . CHARLES WILLIAM BARRETT, Senior Warden;
{ EDWARD SHARP ALENTINE, Paa~ Master.

Bumet, •. •..•• .....• No. 290, .... FRANK PUTNAM FLINT, Master.

Alturas, .......... !So. 248, •••• WILLIAM E ARMSTRONG, Master.

Tnwer, . ......... No. 294, .•.• JOSEPH DAVIS PILLSBURY, Master.

v

Santa Paula, ••.•• No. 291, •... EDWIN VIRDEN, Master.

Oranqe G7ove, •. .. No. 293, .••. WILLIAM SMALLEY, Master.

Greerwi.Ue, ••.•••. No. 249, •••. JAMES ELISHA PBBRY, Master.

3

Proceedings of the

34

[Oct. 8,

Silver Gate, ...... . . No. 296, .... EUGENE DANEY, Ma.a~r.
d Re
.
No 2'.Yl
IIABBY LINOOLN WALTJUIB, Sr. Warden an
p.
.Dunamuir, • · · · · · · •
'·
·
·
·
am N 298
THOMAS PETERS, Pa.at Master an d R epresentative·
Mokdum 'M .....,,. • 0 •
'· · • •

.
N 299
J omi RoBERT SHilllLDS, Master an d p a.at M a ster·
Liberty, .. .. ..... No. 300',
. . . JAMES FREDERIOK DRAKE, Past Master and Rep.
Red],anda, • • . • . • • o.
• ... .
·
No 301..... RoBERT GRAY, Master .
Qntano' . .. ....... .N • 303
J AOOB FRANKLIN BoLLER, Master and Past Master .
PtYrtervil/Al, • ...... ~ o.
••· "
BudJ,ey , ........ . • No. 304, .... CHB.IBTOPHEB DUDLEY
, Master .
j 0BLAND0 HENBY HUBER, Master ;
.Azuaa, . . •.' · • • · · · · N 305, · · 1 CHARLES HENBY LEE, Senior
Warden .
.Aahlar, . ....... .. No. 306, .... CoNSTANTINE U"REN,
Master .
.
N 308
JAMES WILLIAM HARVEY, Master .
Monrov ui, ....• • .• No. ~ . . .. •JORN JACOB SCHLITZ
, Past Master and Rep.
J)elatno, • • • • • • • • • • o.
' .... THOMAS Cooss Poe KMAN, Master and Past Master
;
Siu<tn. •..•... ... . No. 310, .. { WILLIAM HENRY SHIBLEY
, Junior Warden . .
.
N . 311 .... RIOHABll Cox, Paet Master and Repres entativ
e.
Hueneme, · • · · · · · • 0
312'
CHARLES FRKDERIOK w ADE, Master an d p . Master.
Loa Banos, .. · · .. · N 0 •
" .. •
•
w ard en ·•
I CHARLES HENRY CORNELL, Senior
Temacal, .••.•.. • No. 314• .. l ORLANDO ABTlllMU
S SMITH, Past Master .
•
GJIDBGE R. FRAMPTON, Repres entativ e.
NO'MJ)alk, • • • . .. • •N o. 31o,
....
JAHKB HENRY SAYRE, Master ;
Sanger, .... · ····.No . 316," {DOUGLAS BALFOUR,. Senior
Warden .
N
FRANK MAxwKLL, Senior Warden .
FaWwook, · • .. · .. 0 • 317' .. ..
j JORN MARCUS DUNSMOOR, Master and p . Master '·
Hol~k, . ..... No. 319, .. 1 TBOWBRlOOE HYKR WARD,
Past Master .
N 320
FRANK CHARLES WOLF, Master and Past Master .
~h Gate,. ..... . N :: 32;::: : HENBY PIERCE CHADBOURNll, Master
and Past M.
.Alual,. · .. • .. · · · •
'
Semor
· W den
322
WALDO
PASCHA
L
JOH!iSO
N,
ar
.
.Alhambra, • . · · · · · N o.
•· · · ·
. r, .
WhitUe
. . • . . . .. • U • D ., .... ROBERT B WAY, Master .
. U D
LEANDER WARREN FRABY, Master .
Corona, •. .. . ······ • ., .. ·•
a~• ... .... ..u. D., .... WABRKN JAY FLIO~ Master .

°·

Which report was concu rred in, and the brethr en therei
n named
were admitt ed to seats.
The Grand Secret ary presen ted his Annua l Repor t
to the Grand
Lodge , as follows :To the M. •. w.., (}ro,na Lodge of California :. . .
.
. d espectfully submits his fifth Annual Report, giving
m detail
The und ~rs1gne ~
.
the last Annual Communication.
the transac tions. of hie office e~~~= after the close of
the last Annual Se~sion
At the earhest da~e=the proceedings thereof- two
thousan d- were ~rmted
tbe us.ual.number of cop ed for future binding, in the
custom ary manner , ~1z.: one
and d1stnbu ted, or reserv G d Officers . one copy
to each of tl~e elect1 ~e Pa.at
copy to each of the present ran
'

1895.J

Gran d Lrxlge of Oal,iforni.a.

35

Grand Officers; four copies to each of. the Grand Bodies,
American and foreign,
with which we are in correspondence ; four copies to
each of the Lodges of our
jurisdic tion; six hundre d copies reserved for binding ;
a few have been furnished
to sundry Masonic periodicals and brethre n of distinct ion
abroad ; a very few have
been sold, ae authori zed by the law ; and the remain der,
a much leBB number than
heretofore, have been retained for the use of the Grand
Lodge at this Communication. The time has arrived when the edition of our printed
proceedings should be
somew hat increased. It will be seen in the financial
portion of this report that
but five copiel! of those of last year have.been sold, the
scanty remain der left after
supplying the Lodges, Grand Lodges, etc., having rendere
d it impoBBible to spare
more, althoug h there have r.een many applications
for their purchase. During
sixteen years past the number printed ha.a been two
thousa nd-a number amply
sufficient at the time it first wa• ordered, but. inadequ
ate now to supply the increased demand . Then there were but two hundre d and
nine existing subordi nate
Lodges; now there are two hundre d and sixty-one. Then
there were but about fifty
Grand Lodges with which we were in communication
; now there are more than
sixty. Then the entire membership of the jurisdic tion
was but little over twelve
thousand ; now it is over seventeen thousand. In view
of these facts ids respectfully suggested"that the Grand Secreta ry be authori zed
to have printed hereaft er
at least twenty two hundre d and fifty copies. The additio
nal cost, being only for
paper, preoswork and bindicg , will be compar atively
small, and will probably be
more than reimbursed to the Grand Lodge by the sale
of such number a.a can
then be spared.
The library of the Grand Lodge ha.a been largely increas
ed during the past
year, as will be seen from the following list of additio
ns to the proceedings of
various Grand Bodies and Masonic publications in con.
t inuatio n of those already
upon our shelves, all bound in the uniform stvle heretof
ore adopted , viz.: One
hundre d and seventy -two volumes proceedings of
the Grs.nd Lodges of the
United States of Americ a, Canada , Peru, Federa l Distric
t of Mexico and New
South Walea ; sixty-si x volumes proceedings of the Grand
Commanderies K. T.
of th~ United States, Englan d and Wales, and Canada
; thirteen volumes proceedings of the Grand Councils R. and S. M. of the United States
and Canada ; seventy.
seven volumes proceedings of the Grand Chapte rs R. A.
M. of the United States
and Canada ; one volume proceedings of the Genera l Grand
Council R. and S. M.
of the United States; four volumes pr~inga of the
Suprem e Council A. and A.
S. R. of the Northe rn and Southe rn jurisdic tions; three
volum&1 proceedings of
the Suprem e Coµncil of Sovereign Grand Inspect ors Genera
l of the United States
of Americ a, their Territo ries and depend encies; one
volume proceedings of the
Royal Order of Scotlan d ; one volume proceedings of
the Anti-M asonic Convention, held at Baltimo re, Septem ber 26, 1831; four volume
s History of Freema sonry
in Maryla nd ; four volumes Bulleti n of the Suprtm e Coµnci
l A. and A. S. R. South·
ern jurisdic tion; four volumes of the Ma.sonic Chronic
le ; two volumes of the
Canadi an Craftsm an ; seven volumes of the Masonic
R eview ; nine volumes of
Yoice of Masonry ; seven volumes of the Freema son's
Reposi tory; two volumes of
the Liberal Freema son ; eight volumes of the Bulleti
n of ·the Grand Orient of
France ; two volumes of the Calend ar of the Grand Orient
of France ; one volume
of the Bulleti n of th~ Suprem e Council of Belgium
, and three volumes of the
Revista Masonic del P eru, being in all three hundre d and
ninatv-one volamee.
In accordance with a standin g direction of the Grand
Lodge, three hundre d
copies each of the proceedings of 1893 and 1894 have
been bound togethe r in the
uniform style adopted from the comme ncemen t; the two
years' transac tions form

[Oct. 8,

Proceedings of the

36

.es which constitutes the history of the Grand
the twenty-first volume of the Serl
Lodge of California.
.
d
t
to and includA new edition of the Constitution, embodymgall amen ~e~s upb d" action of
ing the Annual Communication of 1894, was iss?ed from I his o c~
a:~ Inspectthe Grand Master, cop~es ?f ~h!ch ~ere tra~s~1tte~ ~fa:~!::
n~ objection, will
ors of Districts of our Jur1sd1ct1on m June as , an •
.
d
be sent to the several Grand Lodge• with which we are lD c~rrespon ence.
At the last Annual Communication the following resol ut1on was adop~ed :.
.
b
thorized and directed to
]luolved That the Committee on Grievances e au
d f T . 1
revise and 'have reprinted the pamphlet known as "Form of ~ecor so rinto~
and Transcripts There&f," and to incorporat~ t~erein a. full for: for a tr::~\h~t a
the Record of Trial for guidance of Secretaries 10 makmg up .t e ~a~e,. d" ti n
copy thereof be transmitted to the Secretary of. each L·1dge m this JUrIB ic ~ •

:ao e:

That iuty has been fully performed; the pamphlet w.as ~evised an~ r~p;::t~!·
·
·1 d to all the Lodges and Inspectors of D1str1cts of the JUrIB
and copies ma1 e
on the 16th day oflJanuadryf last.the L1"brarian of the Mechanic•' Institute that its
Ith ing been earne rom
·
d"
library ';',ssessed only the volumes I to XVII,. inclusive, of the bound ~ceei:~~~
G
d Loill(e the remainder of the sanes-volumes XVIII to
'
t~wa:a:ransmitt~d thereto in January last, as will be s!len by the ackn;:~
s1ve
e officer above mentioned, herewith presented. It was assume
:~!1::::r~~:ed as it has been heretofore, that it would be the wish o~ t~e G~a~!

1

o!

_historyti~t pe~p~:;gt::·

~;l~hb: ~:;:a~tn:~\t~a~::~~:i~; :ou~d

Lodge :hat its
:::
roceedmgs to its cons uen
•
· ent libraries of the State.
p
· · h th
volumes wit d~ pro~mll the Grand Lodges of the United States and BritiRh
The procee mgs 0 a
· d d l ct in the hands

~~~:~:::!a:.y:t~:!n~:::~:t;::: ~::;0:;:;::::~:s ~:vepa~s:e those of New
th Wales England and South Australia.
.
ou
'
t which charters were granted at the last Annual Commum~he four L1·noddg:: a:ason properly constituted, by deputies specially appointed
cation were,
•
b the Grand Master, as follows :,!ollenbeck
No. 319, at J,os Angeles, by HENRY S. Om.rn, p~~t Gr~?d Ma~~er;

S

.c:J.1

••••

,,

,,

,,

"

"

,,

,,

320
SO'llth
. Gate· • · ·No.
No 321• " Pleasanton,

" HARRY C. BcsH, Gran d Le ct urer;
.AliaaZ ••• - • • • • .
Alhambra,
" HENRY S. OBME, Past .Grand Master.
Alhambra.··· .No. 3 '
f th
·
.
last Annual Communication, dispensations for the formation .o
ree
b d" t"
f the Grand Master been issued from this office,
Since the
new Lodges have, y irec ion o
'

'22 "

as follows:. . L A
l
ty ·
b 13th 1894 to Whittier Lodge, at Whittier, os nge es coun '
Novembeer 21 t '1894 'to Corona Lodge, at Pasadena, Los Ahgeles county;
Decem r s •
•
E
d"d s Diego county
M 17th 1895 to Consuelo Lodge, at aeon I o, an
..
ay
'
'
.
·
"th th ertificate of withdrawal
0
The petitions f_o~ ~he : :re::i:~ed~~:::t~;n~h:~ the; ~ad last been me~bers,
of the several pet1twner
h t ed L dges and the neces•ary certificates

ret~:;:~~=~~:: ::~~:'::::er:r

:rden~

c~~e~!y

a:d w
pro.posed, wereh all
thet
as o
d . and they are heiewith submitted, toget er w1
e
prepared a~d pre"':nte , d books of record and the petitions of the new Lodges
returned d1spensatiuns an
to be perpetuated by charter.

1895.]

Grand Loiige of OaJ,ifornia.

37

By reference to pages 542 and 556 of the Proceedings of last year, it will be seen
that on the twenty-sixth day of June, 1893, the Grand Master arrested the charter
of St. Mark's Lodge, No. 85, and the Grand Secretary was directed to take the usual
measures for closing up its affairs. In accordance with that direction Bro. JuLTo
AMBROSE GESSLER, Past Master of Drytown Lodge, No. 174, was appointed to act
as aR"ent of the Grand Lodge in the settlement of its affairs; and it is pleasing to
note that all the business connected therewith has been transacted in a manner
most praiseworthy and satisfactory. 'l'he final settlement shows a balance due
to the Grand Lodge, after payment of all the liabilities of the Lodge, of $36.85,
which amount hae been received and will be found accounted for in the financial
portion of this report which follows. 1So the affairs of that extinct 'Lodj!'e may
be considered as finally ·settlej. The correspondence and accounts relative to this
settlement are herewith submitted.
The numbers of the chartered Lodges which are and have been borne upon our
register, have reached to three hundred and twenty-two. Of these thirty-five have
voluntarily surrendered their charters; seven have become extinct by the rev90ation of those instruments; two, established in Oregon, assisted in the formation
of and became subordinate to the Grand Lodge of that State; eight, instituted
in Nevada, transferred their allegiance to the Grand Lodge there established by
themselves ; three withdrew to form the Grand Lodge of Arizona ; and eighteen
have consolidated into nine : making in all sixty-four vacancies upon our roll.
Thus there are now in existence within this juriodiction two hundred and fiftyeight chartered Lodges, which, with the three acting under dispensation, make a
total number of two hundred and sixty-one, with a membership of seventeen thousand four hundred and thirty-one, being a net j!'ain for the year of three Lodges
and three hundred and ninety-one members.
At the last Annual Communication, Grand Master ORME recommended that
the charter of Fall River lodge, No. 270, be revoked. The Committee on Charters, to whom that portion of the Gr1md Master's Address was referred, reported as
follows:In the matter of Fall River T,odge, No. 270, located at Glenburn, in the county
of Shasta, your committee ask that the recommendation oi the Grand Master be
not concurred in, but that their charter remain in force until the first day of June,
1895, by which time the brethren of Fall River Lodge promise that their Lodge
shall be in good working order.
No returns for the year ending July 31st, 1895, have been received from that
Lodge, nor has its Grand Lodj!'e dues been paid. The following letter from its
Secretary, received at this office on the twenty-sixth. day of August last, is submitted:Goorge Johnson, (Jioand Secretary :

· 1JEAR tlrn AND BROTHER.-! beg leave to inform you that it is not within my
power to send the dues of this Lodge to the Grand Lodge. I have done all I can
do to obtain the money, but have failed. We have not held a meeting for over a
year and a half ; in fact therA are not enough members, that will attend, to hold
a meeting. I think it is the sense of the Lodge to surrender its charter.
Fraternally yours,
WILLIAM C. SILVESTER, Secretmry.
There seems to have been a considerable decrease in the number of trials .for
Masonic offenses this year, as compared with former years. The transcripts of trialrecords which have reached this office since the last Annual Report of the undersigned, in cases where notices of appeal have been filed with the Masters of the
respective Lodges-all which have been placed in the hands of the Chairman of the
Committee on Grievances-are as follows: from-

38

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

Sanger, No. 3i6, .••. Robert JPaden, .................. expelled ..•••. Deo. 6, 1894;
No. 146, ... . Joseph Daniel Jourdan, .••. .• ..•. suspended... . Jan. 5, 1895;
No. 146, .... Stonewall Jackson Holliday, .• •••. expelled .••••. July 6, 1895;
:Madera, No. 280, ... William Elsworth Davis,. . ....... reprimanded •. Aug. 3, 1895.
It will be seen, in the foregoing list of transcripts, that the following named
Lodge bas had a new trial of the case remanded to it by the Grand Lodge at its last
Annual Communication, with the result therein set forth:Sanger, No. 816,.. ..... . .. . .................. in the case of Robert J Paden.
The transcripts of similar records, unaccompanied by notices of appeal, which
have been received by the undersigned during the year, are herewith submitted, as
follows, viz.: fromLa Parfafte UnWn, No. 17,. ... Edward Lartbe,. ...... .expelled .. . April 5, 1895;
No. 262, .... Archie Mathewson,. ••••.expelled . .. . Aug. 7, 1895; ·
Bodie,
It will also be seen in the foregoing list that La Parfaile Union, No. 17, has had
a n;v trial in the case of Edward Larthe, remanded to it by the Gra.nd Lodge at the
last Annual Communication. At the same Oommunication it was ordered that the
so-called tr11.oscript of trial-record in the case of ALBERT LoRm GoonnIOB, expelled
by 8ilver (}ate Lodge, No. 296, on June 12th, 189,, be returned to said Lodge, with
directions to prepare and forward to this Grand Lodge a transcript of record of the
trial of said GooDRIOH, made as provided by the provisions of the Constitution and
Regulations of the Grand Lodge and the Form for .Records of Trials. Buch transcript
has been received and placed in the bands of the Cbairma.n of the Committee on
Grievances.
1·he following papers have also been received and b.anded to the chairman of that
committee:A. transcript of the trial-record in the case of DAVID ALBERT SHAW, acquitted by
Azusa Lodge, No. 30.1, on the fourth day of February, 1895, marked" transcript on
appeal." No appeal appears to have been tA.ken, however, as no document.i relative
thereto have been received at this office.
A petition for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry from JAMES
V11.r.s1a, who was expelled by Peittalpha Lodge, No. 202, on the nineteenth day of
May, 1890, aocompanied by an acknowledgment from the Secretary of that Lodge
that proper notice had been given of such intended petition, with a request that the
·
same be granted.
A petition for restoration to the right.a and privileges or Masonry from CHARLES
HowA.BD GORDON, who was expelled by Woodbridge Lodge, No. 131, on the sixteenth
day of January, 1875, accompanied by an acknowledgment from that Lodge of notice
of such intended petition.
A petition for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry from RoBll.BT
BaAUN, who was expelled by Bespflrian Lodge, No. 26', on the sixth day of June,
1890, aocompanied by au acknowledgment from the Secretary of that Lodge that
proper notice had been given and an unanimous request of the Lodge that the prayer
be granted.
A circular letter requesting our Grand Lodge to contribute to the "Masonic
Collectors ABBociation," has been received and placed in the hands of the Oommittee
on Finances.
But one removal of a Lodge from the place of location heretofore authorized has
occurred daring the year. On the twenty-seventh day of June last, permission was
given by the Grand Master to Oampo 8eoo Lodge, No. 100, to remove from Campo
Beco, in Calaveras oounty, to Valley Springe, in the same county; it having been
shown;.that the welfare or ihe) Lodge would be greatly eubeerved by such removal,

.AbeU,
.AbeU,

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California.

39

and that the only neighboring Lodge, the Jurisdiction of which could.be a.ft'eoted by
such change of location, had given its assent thereto•
Of the proposed amendments to the By-Lawe of Lodges which have been received
during the year, the approval of the Grand Master in one hundred and thirty-one cases
have been filed in this office. Of these, eight, being from Lodges Nos. 62, 160, 219,
259, 801. SO,, 310 and 316, proposed changes in the time for stated meetings ; one,
being from Lodge No. 282, proposed to increase the monthly dues; twelve, being
from Lodges Nos. 68, 8i, 211, 215, 261, 281, 286, 2n9, 810, 312, 314 and 317, proposed
to redo~ those dues : two, being from J.odges Nos: 262 and 266, proposed to increase
the affiliation fee ; two, being from Lodges NOB. 160 and 203, proposed an affiliation
fee where heretofore none had existed; one, being from Lodge No. 317, proposed to
abolish that fee; two, being from Lodges Nos. 89 aod 230, proposed a fixed sum for
expenses of the funeral of a deceased brother; and one hundred and th-ree~being from
Lodges Nos. 2,"25, 26,80,32, H, 43,,ll,51,55, 59, 62, 77,80, 81, 83, 8,, 92, 100, 104, 110,
119.122, 123, 126, 129, 131, 133, 134, 135, uo, 145, 147, 149, 151, 156, 160, 173, 180, 181,
182, 183, 184, 187, 190, 194, 195, 196, 198, 199, 203, 204, 207, 208, \!l7, 220, 228, 281,
232, 234, 248, 246, 247, 248, 260, 253, 25,, 255, 256, 261, 262, 265, 266, 267, 269, 273,
274, 275, 277, 279, 281, 282, 283, 286, 287, 289, 293, 294, 295, 299, 301, 303, 30!, 305,
305, 308, 809, 311, 313, 315, 316, 317 and 318, proposed to reduce the fee for the degrees.
Notice of the approval of the Grand Master has been given to the Lodges, their
action in all these cases having apparently been in consonance with the la.w upon
that subject. But information in regard to the last named fact has, in many
instances, been obtained only after repeated letters from the undersigned, which
would have been trnnecessary had the Secretaries, in the first instance, properly pre·
sented the application for approval. The law requires that an amendment shall be
proposed at a stated meeting of a Lodge; shall, at a subsequent stated meeting, be
adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members then present; and shall then
be transmitted to the Grand Master for hie approval. It le probably true, that in
most, perhaps in all, cases the nction of the Lodge ha.q been exactly in accordance
with the law; bot the Secretary, in many instances, simply sends information, in
brief, that a certain amendment has been adopted, without stating, in terms, as he
should, for the proper information of the Grand Master, that it has been 8.llopted in
the manner which the law prescribes. That fdct, then, has to be ascertained by an
otherwise unnecessary further correspondence between the undersigned and the
8eoretary; and the snbject is presented here in the hope that some of the Becretanes
will note this published suggestion.
Proposed amendments to the by-laws, relative to the reduction of duee of
members, from Lodges Nos. 81, 161, 2U and 264, were disapproved by the Grand
Master for the reason that the rate of dues proposed was thought to be too low for
the Lodges to maintain a healthy and useful exiRtence.
The approval or disapproval of the Grand MRSterobeing but temporary, the
foregoing amendmAnts, as required by our lawS, have been placed in the hands of
the Chairma11 of the Committee on By.Laws of Lodges, and will be submitted to
the Grand Lodge for final action, as havA the books of by-laws of the three Lodges
now working under dispensation.
During th~ year ending 31st July, 1895, twenty-four specie.l dispensatioll8 for
sundry purposes have, by order of the Grand Master, been issued from this office,
as folluwe :December 12th, 1894, to Orland Lodge, No. 265;
December 20th, 1894, to L<Illldmark Lodge, No. 253;
December 20th, 1894, to Michigan City Lodge, No. 47;
December 28th, 1894, to Callayomi Lodge, No. 282 ;

Proce.edings of the

[Oct. 8,

January 16th, 1895, to Tm_. Lodge, No. 294 ;
January 16th, 1895, to ElBirwre Lodge, No. 289; and
·
.
March 1st, 1895, to Gram Range Lodge, No. t\9, to elect officers at a time other
than that provided in our laws.
February 15th, 1895, to Inyo Lodge, No. 221 ; and
March 20th, 1895, to Hayte(J//-d Lodge, No. 226, to fill vaoancies in the office of
Master.
March 6th, 1895, to St. Helena Lodge, No. 93, to fill a vacancy in the office of
Junior Waraen.
January 16th, 1895, to Sof,ano Lodge, No. 229, to fill a vacancy in the office ofSecretary.
September 5th, 1894, to Los Angela Lodge, No. 42;
September 12th, 1894, to Speranza Italiana Lodge, No. 219;
September 24th, 1894, to King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260;
November 13th, 1894, two to Ff!1'11dale Lodge, No. 193;
February 11th, 1895, to Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42;
March 6th, 1895, to K ing Sollnnon'a Lodge, No. 260;
April 8th, 1895, to King Solnmtm'a Lodge, No. 260;
.June 25th, 1895, to Antioch Lodge, No. 175;
.
July 3d 1895, two to Occidental Lodge, No. 22; and
July 29~h, 1895, to lift. Moriah Lodge, No. 44, to re-ballot upon the petitions
of ?'f'jected applicants for the degrees.
April 3d, 1895, to Solano Lodge, No. 229, to receive and act upon the petition
of an applicant for the degrees, belonging to the Navy of the United States, and
not having the prescribed qualification of residence.
.
All which papers have been placed with the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The followinK has aleo been received and transmitted to that committee:Sundry letters from the Secretarv of Siaaon Lodge, No. 310, relative to thll
payment to the representative fund by .that Lodge, while working under dispensation. ·
A communication, dated at Melbourne, Australia, on the nineteenth day of
August, 1895, from the R. ·. W. ·.Bro. DAVID MEAD0"10ROFT, Grand Secretary of
the "United Grand Lodge of Victoria," soliciting the ollicial and fraternal recognition of our Grand Lodge, and expreBBing the hope that a Worshipful member
thereof may be suggested for appointment as the Representative of that United
Grand Lodge near the Grand Lodge of California.
It i.8 proper to state that a similar request was made in 1892 (see printed pwceedings of that year, page 505). N o report was made by the Committee on
Jurisprudence, to whom the matter was referred at that time, nor has any action
been had by this Grand Lodge.
Circular letters from the Grand Lodges of K entucky and Wyoming, stating
that all commissions to Grand Reprei<o:ntatives of those Grand Lodges had been
revoked, and requesting that the commissions accrediting Representatives from
this Grand Lodge be withdrawn ; and
A circular letter from the Grand Lodge of Colorado relative to the W aahington
:Memorial observances.
The following matters which, at the last Annual Communication, remained in
the bands of the Committee on Jurisprudence, or were then referred thereto and
not reported upon, are still in the hands of that committee as unfinished business;-

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California.

41

R elative to a decision of the Grand Maiter, called for by proceedings held in
Oriental Lodge, No. 144, I qnote from the report of the Committee on Juris-

prudence in Proceedings of 1894, pa~e "772 :The Senior Warden appeared before us and.urged that neither the Grand Master nor Grand J,odtrP could properly consider this matter, because the ob jections
to his decisions while acting as Master had not been laid before the Grand Master
in the formal way prescribed by Article II of Part VI. • • * •
We do not think that the section referred to should receive such construction,
but as doubts have been expressed we recommend that the section be referred to
our successors, with directions to prepare proper amendmentl!, if any are needed,
and pre. ent them at the next meeting of Grand Lodge.
A substitute for Section 6, Article I, Part V of the Constitution, submitted by
:Bro. J AOOB HART NEFF, ll8 follows :A member of a Lodge may present his application to another Lodge for affiliation therein, and such la•t mentioned Lodge may receive the application and refer
it to a committee of investigation, and upon the report of the committee take a
ballot ; and if thereupon such appli_cation be accepted, the brother shall become a
member of th11 Lodge so accepting him, when it shall reoeive a certificate that such
brother has been regularly discharged from m• mbership in the first mentioned
Lodge.
A re•olution presented by Past Grand Master HIRAM NEWTON R uaKKR, as
follows:lleaolved. That hereafter thfl Report of the Committee on Pay of Members shall
not be made until after the installation ceremonr shall have been completed; and
a proposed amendment to the Constitution relative to electioneering for office, the
proposeit amendment relative to trials for unmasonic conduct, and the proposed
consolidation of Sincerity and Greenville Lodges.
The various registers and account boob of this office. the vouchers for the orders
drawn npori the Grand Treasurer, the Revera! letter books for the year, tbe flies of
letters received, and all other pnpers concerning the business of the Grand Lodge ,
not hereinbefore mentioned, are herewith presented for inepectfon; as is also an
a ccount of the revenues for the year ending on the thirty-first day of July last, with
the receiptii of the Grand Treasnrer for the moneys collected by the undersigned, as
follows:The Grand Secretary in account·with the Grand. Lodge of Oalifornia,
for the fiscal year ending on the 3 1st day of July, 1895.
18~4-95.
For reoeipts during the year, as follows:
Dr.
Rep. Fund. Gen. Fund.
Nov. 1, From sundry sources, from let·August, 1894, to this
date, as per ecconnt at page Rl3 et seq. of the
printed proceedings of tbe year 1894, ...... .... . H.227 75 $1.4,807 00
'' 18, " Ferndale, No. 193, two disp'ns to re-ballot .... .. .
20 00
" 18, " Whittier, U. D., dispensation to form Lodge ..~ ..
75 00
" 13, " Ma.snnic Hall A•s'n, divid ' d ou 3889 shares stock,
777 80
Dec. 10, '' Orland, No. 265, disp"n to e lect oftlcere, . .... ... .
10 00
" 20, " Landmar k , No. 253, disp'n to elect officers,. .. ..
10 00
" 20, " Michigan Oity, No. 47, disp'n to elect officers,. . .
10 00
·• 21, '' Oo1·onat U. 0 ., dispensfltion to form Lodge , .. .. .
· 75 00
" 28, .. Oallayomi.t N o. 282, diep'n to elect officers,.. . .. .
10 00
u
29. " Silver G.ate, No. 296, back dues, .. .... . . . .. . . . .
1 00
Jan. 16, " Masnnic Hall A11'n , divid'd ou 35g9 shares stook,
777 80
" 16, " Elsinore, No. 289, di~pensatioa to elect officers,
10 00
" 16, " Tra1'er, No. 294,
'' ' '
10 00
Feb. 7,
Sollino, No. 229,
Bect'y ,
10 00
" 11, '' Loa Angeles, No. 42,
·• r e-ballot,
10 00
Amou.nte carried forward, ....... . .. .... . .....$4,227 75 $16,613 60

fOct. 8,

1895.J

Amounts brought forward, ................. $4,227 75
Feb. 15, From Inyo, No. 221,
dispensation to elect Master,
Mar. 1, " Gravel Range, No. fi9,
" officers,
"
6, " St. Helena, No. 93, disp'n to elect Jun. Wuden,
" 11,
G'd Lodge of New .Jersey, on acc't J.E. Ball, ..
12, " King Solomo11's, No. 260, disp'n to re-ballot, ....
" 20, " Hayward, No. 226, dispensation to elect Master,
Apr. 3, " Soi.a.no, No. 229,
non-1·e•ident,.
8, " King Solomon's, No. 2u0, disp'n to re-ballot, ...
May 4, " ,Vasonic HaU Ass'n, divid'd on 3889 shares stock,
" 17, " Consuelo, U. D., dispensation to form Lodge, ... .
June 25, " Antioch, No. 175,
•· re-ballot,. ..... .
July 3, " Oc(lirlental, No. 22, two disp'ns to
" 13, " Masonic Hall Ass'n, divid'd on 3889 shares stock,
" 29, " Mount Moritth, No. 4.4, disp'n to re-ballot, ..... .
" SL, " Bound volumes, sales for the year, ............ .
" 31, " Proceedings,
''
'' .... ··••p••
" 31, " Constitutions,
.....•.....•
" 31, " MonUors,
........... ..
•• 31, " Diplomas,
fees
"
" ........•....
31, " St. Mark's Lodge, net proceeds from eales, etc.,

$16,613 60
$ 10 00
10 00
10 00
156 00
10 00
10 OU
10 00
10 00
777 80
75 00
10 00
20 00
972 25
10 00
2 50
5 00
19 75
82 75
117 00
36 85

Since the last Anno&! Communication the sum of $713.25 has been received by
the o·ndersigned and paid to the Treasnrer of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans'
Home, as per his receipts.
As heretofore, the undersigned is enabled to report that, for the fisc&l year just
reported, the returns from &11 the Lodges had bee'n received and that their dues had
all been paid. He has little to complain offor the present year, for, although &good
de&! of conespondence has been necessary to have reports properly corrected (as
has been not unusual), there has been perhaps a greater promptitude than heretofore in the transmission of returns and the payment of dues, and, save FaU Ri'll•r
Lodge, No. 270, which has sent neither report nor does, .there is not & Lodge in the
jurJsdiction that owes a dollar to the Grand Lodge.
All which is respectfully submitted by
GEORGE JOHNSON,
Grand Secretary.

Heing &total of receipts for the year ending July 31st, 1895, or .. $4,,227 75

$18,968 50

Amounting collectively to the sum of............. .

$23,196 25

Proceedings of the

42

Dr.
RECAPITULATION . .
1894-95.
Received for dues on account of the General Fond to 31st July, 1895, . ....• $14,503 00
Repr've "
4,227 75
dispensations to form new Lodges daring the year,...........
300 00
" special dispensations for sundry purposes during the year,.. .
240 00
" charters ordered by the Grand Lodge in October, 1894,......
200 00
" dividends on stock of the Mosonic Hall Association,......... 3,305 65
from Gr&ud Lodge of New Jersey, for account of J.E. Ball,....
156 00
for diplomas, monitors, constitutions, proceedings, b'd vols, and
property of extinct Lodges,............ . . ............... _ _2_03_85_

..

Making &total amount, as above, of.................. $23,196 25
Cr.

CONTRA.

1894-95.

Rep. Fund. Gen.Fund,

Aug. 7. Paid to Grand Treasurer, as per his receipt,. ....... $
13.
20.
"
27.
31.
" "
Sept. 11.
" "

. ..

.

21.

3.
4.
Feb. 7.
May 13.
July 15.
31•

Oct.

.

..

.. " "

..
" "

" "

..

" "

..

"

.
.

"

..

749 75 $ 2,560 25
3,164 50
945 50
3.316 25
990 75
2,909 25
853 75
1,238 25
358 75
601 50
156 50
190 75
58 25
320 75
46 00
78 00
17 00
1,050 00
950 00
1,300 00
46 50
1,289 00
5 00

-----

Total payments to the Grand Treasurer, ...•.... ,g4,227 75 $18,968 50
Making an aggregate amount, &s above, of...

----$23,196 25

Grand Lodge of Oal,iforni,a.

43

Which report was ordered to be referred t~ the same special committee as that upon the Address of the Grand Master.
The Grand Lecturer presented his Annual Report to the Grand
Lodge, as follows :To the M. '. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California:In conformity with usage, I hereby present to this Grand Lodge & report
of my movements, observations and work during the past year, together with
certain recommendations for the consideration of this Grand Body, looking to
the improvement of Lodges at present difficult of access, and to the promotion
of their proficiency in the work of the ritual.
My visits have been as numerous as possible, and principally to Lodges
and districts in outlying portions of the -State, their condition requiring more
attention than those in the immediate vicinity of San Francisco. As far as
possible, I have encouraged the plan of holding Lodges of Instruction rather
than having a degree conferred, feeling that the limited time would be thus
spent more profitably to the Lodge officers. The fact that the brethren h~ve
in all cases shown a willing disposition to study and adopt, as far as they were
able, the authorized work of the ritual, their eagerness to obtain the correct
work; and their loyalty to the Grand Lodge, are features worthy of the highest
commendation.
The company of the M. '. W. •. Grand Master on most of my visits has
served to create a lively interest among the brethren, and his words of encouragement and advice have borne an abundance of fruit.
VISITATIONS.
In addition to the following record of visits I have devoted much time to
the Inspectors of several districts who have visited the city, as well as to
individual officers of various Lodges.
I have been ably supported by Inspectors W.R. EVANS and B. F. JELLISON,
of the Twenty-fifth and Twenty-sixth Districts, respectively; also by Bro.
JOHN A. BECKWITH, Worshipful Master of Live Oak Lodge, No. 61, and
others. From our combined efforts I feel that some progress has resulted.

44

Prooe,edings _of tltc

(Oct. 8,

On October 23d, 1894, in company with Inspector ARTHUR W. KEDDIE, of
the Sixth District, visited Broolelyn Lodge, No. 225, at East Oakland, third
degree being conferred.
On October 27th, by authority of the M. •. W.-. Grand Master, I convened
the Grand Lodge at Pleasanton for the purpose of constituting Alisal Lodge,
No. 321, which was done with the able assistance of various officers of Lodges
in the Twenty-fifth District. Bro. EDWIN A. SHERMAN, acting Grand Orator,
made an address, c&lculated to inspire the officers and members of the infant
Lodge with confidence, as well as induce an appreciation of their opportunities
and responsibilities. The work of the past year shows that their opportuniti.es
have not been neglected. The ceremony was attended by the families of the
brethren, a.nd at its close a supper was partaken of a.nd No. :121 wa.s launched.
On November 10th, visited Oakland, No. 188, the occasion being .the con·
ferring of the third degree by Organist WILBUR WALKER upon his son. It is
worthy of especial mention, a.s Bro. WALKER h11.d never conferred a. degree
nor held an office iu the Lodge other than Organist, a.ud his work was performed :with all the confidence and precision of a veteran. This example,
which is worthy of emulation, shows what ma.y be accomplished by the exertion of commendable endea..,.or.
On November 13th, visited Brooklyn, No. 225, a.gain, to witne&s the work
of the Ma.ster's degree, conferred by the late FRANK M. NORRIS, then Senior
Warden, afterwards Ma.ster of tbe Lodge. He wa.s an expert in the a.rt, and
in his death, Brooklyn lost a. valuable officer and the Craft a noble representative.
On November 15th, in company with M. '. W. ·. JAMKS B. STEVENS, Grand
Master, W. ·,Bro. EUGENE N. D1mPREY, Grand Orator, and Bro. C. 0. PERKINS,
Inspector of the Sixteenth District, visited Sama Rosa Lodge, No. 57. This
Lodge is in fine condition, a.nd does its work excellently.
On December 30th, I attended my own Lodge, Live Oak, No. 61, a.nd have
done so as often as possible since then. Modesty a.lone prevents a glowing
account of the high state of its prosperity and proficiency.
Attended installation of officers at Oakland, No. 188, Brooklyn, No. 225,
King Solomon's, No. 260, and Live Oak, No. 61, December 8th, 11th, 17th a.nd
21st, respectively.
· On December 27th, by invitation, visited Sa.n Jose and installed the officers
of San Jose, No. 10, and Friendsliip, No. 210, after which the customary
festivities were indulged in, the most delightful feature being several good,
sound Ma.sonic talks;
On January 3d, 1895, installed the officers of Oak Grove, No. 215, Alameda.,
and on the 5th the officers of Alisal, No. 321, a.t Pleasanton. After the latter
installation I accompanied several of the brethren to Livermore, where MoBdic,
· No. 218, conferred the third degree.
On January 12th a.nd 13th, I gave instruction to as many of the officers of
the Thirteenth District a.s it was possible to get together at Willia.ms, st.orm
preventing a general attendance. Inspector W. J. STEWART was present a.nd
the meeting was a profitable one to us a.IL
On account of my inability to leave the city, Inspector W. R. EvANR, of
the Twenty-fifth District, a.ccomp:iuied the Grand Master to San Luis Obispo

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California.

45

and Santa Barbara, between February 16th and 20th, arid imparted instruction
to the officers of the Lodges comprising the Thirty-third and Thirty-fourth
Districts, who were convened da.y and evening for the purpose.
On March 17th, visited Marysville and held a Lodge of Instruction for the
benefit of Corinthiun, No. 9, Yuba, No. 39, and Enterpriae, No. 70. Inspector
CHARLES E. STONE was present, and much might be said for the zeal and pro·
ficiency of the officers of those Lodges.
On March 21st, 'Fidelity, No. 120, conferred the first degree with stereopticon illustrations of the emblems. The ceremony W!IS entertainingly rendered
and the •tereopticon was an interesting novelty.
On March 23d, I a.ccomp11.nied the Grand Master to Visalia., where a. meetin11; of the Thirty-second District wa.s held. The da.y and evening, a.a well a.s
the following day, were occupied in the exemplification of the several degrees.
The feature of the occasion wa.s the remark.ably large. attendance and the
enthusiasm manifested. Past Grand Master ALVAH R. CONKLIN aud Inspector
J, C. EN~IGN were pre8ent.
On March 28th, accompanied the Grand Master t.o Sa.n Jose where
Friendship, No. 210, conferred the third degree upon two ca.ndida.tes.' There
wa.s a large attendance, and the proficiency of the officers reflects credit upon
Inspector RALPH LoWK, who was present. The Twenty-se'\"enth District was
well repreaen ted.
On April 5th, held a meeting of the Twenty-third District at Stockt.<m,
The Grand Master and Inspector NATHAN R. BARBOUR were present. The
third degree was exemplified in the evening. The meeting was not largely
attended, owing partly to short notice and partly to a. meeting at the Opera
House iu the interest of the new ra.ilroa.d.
On the sixth, we pa.ssed on to the Twenty-first District, holding a. meeting
for instruction at Ione. It was well attended, but, like most of the Districts
a. week should have been spent there instead of a day. Inspector RoBER~
AITKEN was kept at home by serious illneBB.
On April 27th, Inspector JAMES A. FOSHAY having called a meeting of the
Thirty-tifth District a.t Los Angeles for instruction, I exemplified the third
degree, and on the da.y following compared work in the ritual with the
Inspect.or a.nd other authorities. This District is an exception.ally fine or{e in
a.II respects, and their work is about perfect. It does not require the attention
of the Grand Lecturer. Pa.st Grand Master H . S. ORME hc;mored the meeting
with his presence.
On Ma.y 10th, in company with the Grand Ma.ster, visited Sacratmnto,
No. 40. The third degree was conferred a.nd a banquet followed, which was
presided over by Past Grand Master ATKINSON. Some of the most important
a.nd useful lessons in Masonry a.re taught at the banquet table, a.nd this occasion was no exception to the rule. The degree work was very impressively
rendered, but the ritua.1 was not as cloeely adhered to as might be desired,
although the officers are earnest in their desire to perfect themselves. On
Sunday, May 26th, Bro. Joms A. BECKWITH visited Sacramento a.nd a.ssisted
the brethren in practice, sickness in my family rendering it imposaih1e for me
to go.

46

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

On May 11th, the third degree was conferred upon Bro. WALTER WILCOX,
the ward· of the Grand Lodge, by Oakland, No. 188. There was a large
attendance. The work was splendidly done, but the practical worth of
Masonry was illustrated in the ceremony and at the table, where addresses
were made by the Grand Master, Grand Orator, Past Grand Master RucKER
and Past Grand Treasurer SPAULDING. It was a meeting which will be long
remembered.
On May 18th, visited Yount, No. 12, Napa, and by request conferred the
third degree, assisted by Bro. BECKWITH, ·worshipful Master of Live Oak,
No. 61, as Senior Deacon. This is the Grand Master's Lodge, and it fully
sustained the distinction it enjoys for hospitality and earnestness.
On May 21st, visited California, No. 1, where the third degree was con·
ferred in a manner which fully justifies the reputation of this Lodge as the
leader in the correct work, all features being considered. It was a restful
experience.
On June 1st, in company with Grand Master and Inspector PERKINS of the
Sixteenth District, I visited Yitruviuii, No. 145, at Bloomfield. The Inspector
conferred the third degree to perfection itself. The meeting was marked by a
lively interest and a general attendance of brethren who were obliged to drive
many miles.
O.o June 7th, visited .F'rllllno, No. 247, and by request conferred the third
degree. Past Grand Lecturer ANDERSON and Inspector ENSIGN were present,
and altogether it was one of the most satiefactory meetings of the year.
On June 15th and 16th, in company with the Grand Master, visited the
Second District at Yreka, at which all the Lodges in the District were represented, although many were obliged to come from forty to sixty miles by
te'am. All through the Northern Districts this apparent disrega.rd of inconvenience when a Masonic meeting was concerned impressed me deeply. A
little of that spirit grafted into the membership of city Lodges would work
wonderful advantage to the Order. The meeting at Yreka was solely for
instruction. I found Inspector CHARLES W. NUTTING very near perfect, and
with a reasonable amount of practice~the Lodges of that District would excel.
June 18th and 19tk were spent at Redding, where Inspector JAMES L.
BARHAM had called a meeting of the Fourth District for instruction, though
sickness prevented his attendance. There was no time lost and there was a
marked improvement noticeable when we left, although the officers were
anxious for still more instruction.
June 20th found us at Colusa, where Inspector STEWART had called a meeting
ot the Thirteenth District. The evening was spent in much needed practice,
in which all were greatly interested. Oolusa Lodge, No. 240, is well officered,
but has done no work for a long time. The other Lodges are not perfect in
the work, but are eager to become so.
June 22d and 23d were spent at Woodland, at a meeting of the Nineteenth
District. There was a good representation and close attention was paid to the
instruction given.
On June 28th, visited Santa Ana, No. 241, in company with Inspector
MARION A. MENGES of the Twenty-eighth District. The third de~ee was
carefully rehearsed and I found the officers well qualified.

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oaliforuia.

47

On Jul~ 6th, in company with the Grand Master, visited Alameda, No. 167,
at ?entrev1lle, ~~e third degree being conferred. This Lodge has made much
of. its opportumt1es, and the character of its officers indicates that its proficiency has come to stay.
On July 18th, witnessed a well rendered third degree at Oak Grove, No. 115,
Past Grand Master MYER, of Oregon, was present and made an
interesting address.
·

:Aiamed~

On ~uly 20th and 21st, visited Monterey, No. 217, with the Grand Master.
The third degre_e was conferred in a thoroughly impressive manner by Bro.
LAMBERT and his officers, although there was much in the work that could not
be recognized as bel~nging to t~e California ritual. This was due to a variety
of causes, but there lB every evidence of improvement to come. The Lodge has
~one no ~ork for a year ; the officers were scattered throughout the surrounding country an~ practice had therefore been impossible. The Lodge is in a
prosperous condition financially, harmony prevails and there are good prospects
of work ahead. Inspector F. W. LucAs was present and had much of interest
to report. His <listrict is carefully looked after.
·
On ,Jul~ 23d, attended Oriental, No. 144. The third degree was conferred
by the Sen10r Warden. It was his first attempt, and it is doubtful if there
a~e mii:11Y ~asters in the jurisdiction who are as near the perfect work of the
r1_tual m this particular degree as Bro. LADD. 1 would heartily recommend
his e.xample to the Senior and Junior Wardens of other Lodges. If they will
a~ply them~elves, the Master's work may be as easily learned while they are
still occnpy1:°g the ~arden's stations, as later, an<l. unexpected emergencies
that may arise requmng them to give the Master's work, will not find them
unprepared.
On July 24th, in company with Inspector B. F. JELLISON, visited Mission
No. 169. The third· degree was conferred with scarcely a misplaced word:
The commendable features of this Lodge, in addition to its high stand d f
f t'
.
ar o
l>'.'r. ec 10n, are its large attendance and its open-hearted manner of welcomin
visitors.
g
On July 30~h, atten~ed Brooklyn, No. 225, when the third degree was
conferred. This Lodge 1s also noted for its hospitality.
. _On A~gnst 10th, Inspector W. R. EVANS and a carefully selected team
VJs1ted Livermore and conferred the third degree for the benefit of the office
of Mos~ic, No. 218. I have never seen a degree conferred nearer technic:~
perfect10n.
·
Un ~eptember 5th, visited Bakersfie,ld, No. 224, with Inspector ENSIGN.
The th1r~ degree was p:acticed in the afternoon and beautifully conferred in
the ev~mng, after which an elaborate supper was given at the hotel. This
L.o~~e is one of the most active and painstaking I have had the pleasure of
v1s1tmg.
On September 13th,, visited .Durant, No. 268, at Berkeley. The occasion
was the third degree, which was conferred upon two sons of the Lodge's
Treasurer. This Lodge has done a great deal of work lately and it has been
done carefully. Its progress is very gratifying.
?n Sep~mber 14th, with the Grand Master, visited Fourteenth District at
Ukiah and mstructed the officers, Inspector W. W, CUNNINGHAM having called

48

· Procee,d,ings of the

[Oct. 8,

a meeting for the purpose. There was a large attendance, all the Lodges in the
District being represented,
On September 16th, we visited Hai·tley, No. 199, at Lake¥°rt. l~spector
ORAWl'ORD was present and there was a liberal representation of his three
Lodges,. as well as a ~ood attendance from Ukiah. 'l'he. third degree w~s .
conferred with a spirit of solemnity and impressiveness which could be cult1• ·
vated with profit by many Lodges which enjoy greater advantages. The
ceremony loses its force and beauty when expre11Sion is lost sight of. To fully
carry the proper impressions an officer should carefully study the meaning of
the sentences before attempting to convey their meaning to others. The work
in this District requires a careful reviewing, and when it is once straightened
out it will be kept so. Hartley Lodge has a fine corps of officers, and t~e
brethren practice as well as preach the tenets of the Order. The Lodge is
enjoying a season of prosperity, with bright prospects ahead.
On September 21st, with Inspector W. P. HAMMOl!f, I met the office~ of
the Lodges of the Eleventh District at Oroville. The day was passed 1ll a
Lodge of Instruction, and in the evening Oroville Lodge, No. 103, conferred
the third degree. The Grand Master was present, and the large attend~nce
gives ample testimony of the interest his visits are capable .of a~a~enmg.
This was one of many Masonic revivals. The officers of this D1str1ct are
bright a.nd capable, and with the active work planned by Inspector HAMMON
it promises to be one of the best in the State.
.
On September 30th, visited Alcatraz, No. 244, West Oakland, and wit~eued
the conferring of the third degree. This Lodge is composed largely of railroad
men, and for years it has been a difficult matter for the officers to attend with
a great degree of regularity, and it has therefore been difficult to keep up a
very excellent standard of work, although as its membership. has been incre~ed
it has improved from year to year. The officers this year evtdently determmed
to become perfect at one bound, and the fine quality of their work on this ~CC&·
sion was a most pleasant surprise, and is an illustration of what enthu!iasm
and practice will accomplish. The officers of this Lodge, and also Inspector
EvANR, are to be congratulated upon the decided improvement, and I ~ight say
that in point of progress toward perfection this was to me the most satisfactory
visit of the year.
On October 5th, visited Antioch, No. 175, the occasion being the conferring
of the third degree upon the son of one. of its members, by Bro. JAMES L.
BARHAM, the candidate's uncle. The degree was conferred in a manner calcu·
lated to impress indelibly the lessons of the ritual and the responsibility volun·
tarily assumed. The brethren then repaired to the residence of the candidate's
parent.a, where a supper bad been prepared, and a. most enjoyable social hour
fittingly closed the evening's progra.mme.
INSPECTOR'S REPORTS.
The following are brief extracts from the reports of District Inspectors who
ba.ve complied with the Fifteenth General Regulation : J.M. MELENDY, Inspector First District, reports bis Lodges in fair oondi·
tion, Humboldt, No. 79, being the only one doing any considerable amount of
work. He considers them capable of good work if they bad it to do. ·

1895.]

Grand Lodge of OaJA/ornw.

49

JAMES L. BARHAM, Inspector Fourth District, reports his District in a
very satisfactory condition, although he has not been able to visit the Lodges
as generally as he desired. He hopes, however, to be able to devote more
time to them during the next few months. Tbe District meeting held in June,
which sickness prevented his attending, was very beneficial, and be hopes it
ca.n .be repeated.
.
WILLIAM BROOKMAN, Inspector Fifth District, reports the Lodges in hie
District to be able to confer the degrees according to ritual, and, .generally
speaking, they are in good condition financially. LaaBe11, No. 149, is having
something of a struggle from having undertaken the building of a new hall,.
but a spirit of confidence preva.ils which will no doubt overcome all obstacles.
J. M. MussEY, Inspector Seventh District, reports Gibsonmll.e, No. 158,
having done no work. It has passed through a trying financial ordeal, which
has been remedied bv a generous voluntary contribution on the part of a
number of its members and· the unanimous adoption of a resolution doubling
its dues. This shows that the brethren of this Lodge are imbued with the.
true spirit of Ma.sonry. J~erson, No. 97, ha.a ma.de a substantial ga.in in
membership, and it looks as though, ~itb the return of business prosperity,
both Lodges will become more prosperous and useful;
STANLEY A. SMITH, Inspector Eighth District, subinits a very complete
report, from which it appears that Sierra YaUey, No. 184, is financially pros·
perous, but has done no work, being located in a mining district, which feel&
the preBBure of hard t!mes. He could not get an opportunity to drill the
officers nor to judge of their proficiency. He proposed visiting Gravel Range,
No. 59, at _its July sta.ted meeting, but, at the suggestion of the Maater, post.
poued the visit until the August meeting, only to find the Master,· Senior ·
Warden a.nd Senior Deacon absent. A candidate for the Fellow Craft degree
was in waiting, and, with the assistance of the Inspector and a. visiting Master
of a. Lodge, the degree was conferred. The books of the Lodge were destroyed
by fire several years a.go and have not yet been replaced, although the records
are being kept. The Secretary will report to the Master the Inspector'•
recommendation tha.t a complete set of books be provided to replace those
destroyed. Inspector could make no report a.a to the proficiency of officen,
the three principal ones being a.bsent. Mountain Shade, No. 18, does good
work; and in all other respects it is complying strictly with the Constitution
and Regulations of the Grand Lodge, and is fairly prosperous.
I. J. RoLF.s, Inspector Ninth District, sends a very complete report, parts
of which are gra.tifying and the balance quite the reverse. Much improve-.
ment is shown by.Nevada, No. 13, and Madison, No. 23. Manzanita, No. 1()'2,
bas done no work, a.nd Quitman, No. 88, is officered by brethren who lack
ambition, and the present Master ha.a been re-elected time after time because
none of the other officers are willing to accept the responsibility. The members
a.re scattered and never roeet for practice or instruction. They evidently need
regenerating.
·
M. D. LININGER, Inspector Tenth District, . has given the Lodges of hie
District considerable a.ttention, although sickneBB has retarded his work some·
what. As a rule the Lodges have but few degrees to confer, and it is difficult
to keep the officers up to the desired standard. Still the instruction he bas

4

50

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

imparted ha.a prevented retrogression. The dues are paid with a fair degree
of promptness, and with one or two exceptions the Lodges are in a prosperous
condition financially. Bro. LININGER feels that his District would be greatly
benefited by an occasional viait· from the Grand Lecturer, as during the past
ten or twelve years it ha.a had but one visit from that officer.
W. P. B.ila!ON, Inspector Eleventh District, pays a touching tribute to
his predeceeaor, the late Bro. EMANUEL B. MORGAN, and says the District is
not only .in a condition highly satisfactory, but is bound to improve. In
speaking of the District meeting held at Oroville, September 2let, which was
attended by the Grand Master and Grand Lecturer, he says: "Nothing has
occurred in our District for years that has awakened the interest in Masonry
eo much as this meeting, and ite benefits will be felt for a long time to come."
Notwithstanding Bro. HAMMON received his commission as late as July 6th, he
has visited four of the six Lodges. Although charity has been dispensed in
all cases which demanded it, the finances are in good shape. The Secretaries
are neat and painstaking, and, consequently, the books present a fine appear·
ance.
CBARLllB E. STONE, Inspector Twelfth District, visited all but one of hie
Lodges, and reports them in good condition, all doing work and doing it well.
There ie a general disposition to promote harmony and good fellowship.
WILLIAM J. STEWART, Inspector Thirteenth District, reports a fair degree
of prosperity and proficiency, except MazweU, No. 288, which is poor ti.nan·
ci&lly, but one more year will probably put it on a good footing again.
W. W. CUNNINGHAM, Inspector Fourteenth District, reports visits to each
Lodge in his District, with the exception of 0011elo, No. 231. His efforts have
been in the direction of improvement of the work, and a satisfactory report is
the result.
.
WOODS CRAWl'OBD, Inspector Fifteenth District, has visited each of his
three Lodges, and finds them working in conformity with the Constitution and
General Regulations. ·Bartley, No. 199, at Lakeport, has shown considerable
progresli, and is well equipped for the work which is still before it.
C. 0. PERKINS, Inspector Sixteenth District, reports prevailing harmony
throughout the District, and all the Lodges fairly prosperous, except Petaluma,
No. 77, which has done no work, and is rather on the down grade. This Lodge
should, ha thinks, consolidate with ..11.rctunu, No. 180. He baa visited each
of his Lodges, some of them several times, and as be is a most competent and
active Inbpector that District may be considered able to take good care of
itself.
.
H. H. KNAPP, Inspeotor Seventeenth District, submits a brief report concerning the five Lodges comprising his District, two of which have been doing
more than the average amount of work, and in all the Districts the utmost
harmony and good fellowship prevail.
E. GLOVER, Inspector Eighteenth District, has visited all the Lodgee at ·
least once, and some of them several times. All but GaU, No. 267, have conferred degrees, and the officers generally are profici.e nt in the work, with some
few exceptions. Natoma, No. 64, which, a short time since, had some trouble
and talked of surrendering its charter, has abandoned the idea, and is now

1895.)

Grand Lodge of Oalifarnia.

51

applying itself diligently to the true Masonic principle of brotherly love. It Is
domg some work, and its meetings are well attended.
.
BYRON BALL, Inspector Nineteenth District, furnishes a very complete
report from a personal visit to each Lodge. They are all on a good financial
footing, having more or leas money in the treasury, and with practice would
·be able to render the work well. In several of the Lodges the fellowship is reported as only fairly good. It would seem that they have all the facilities for
maintaining prosperity and good fellowship, and a friendly suggestion ie offered
by the Grand Lecturer that each Lodge study its own weak points and endeavor
to get them in shape for search-light inspection. The result can reftect notliing
but credit upon the Fraternity, upon the Lodges and upon the individual
brethren.
FBANOIS NroHOLLB, Inspector Twentieth District, has, during the year,
visited five of the sevt:n Lodges comprising the District, and finds them all in
good trim and properly officered and managed.
RoBERT AITKEN, Inspector Twenty-first District, has been unable, owin~
to long and serious illneBB, to visit the Lodges of his District.
NATHAN R. BARBOUR, Inspector Twenty-t hird District, visited each Lodge
in the District, and finds all well versed in the work. Valley, No. 135, ie in
poor financial condition, owing to heavy cai!s for charity. Keya~, No. 161,
holds but few meetings, and its records are not properly kept, although reform
is promised.
WILLIAM S. WELLS, Inspector Twenty-fourth District, reports tha.t he has
made no visits outside of Contra Costa County, no neceasity being apparent.
therefor. All Lodges in Contra Costa.County have done an increased amount
of work, except Contra (JOl!f,a, No. 227, and prosperity seems to express t he
genera.I condition all along the line.
.
W. R. EvANS, lnepector Twenty-fifth District, presents a cheerful report of
the condition of affairs in Al&r11eda County. The officers are, generally speak.
ing, very proficient and painstaking, a friendly rivalry existing in the rendition
of the work. A most sociable feeling prevails, and genera.I invitations from
one Lodge to all the others are of common occurrence, with the result that the
registers show a generous attendance of visitors. A great degree of progress
and general improvement is the result of the year's work.
B. F. JBLLISON, Inspector Twenty-sixth District, has been unable, owing
to protracted illness, to render a written report; but the Lodges continue to
show the marked interest in the welfare of the Order in general, and their
own improvement in particular, which has characterized them in former years.
Visiting membors from the country attend San Francisco Lodges largely for
the purpose of obtaining instruction, and the quality of the work done shows
that these Lodges fully realize their responsibilities.
RALPH LoWE, Inepector Twenty-seventh District, reports matters in that
District in a satisfactory condition, particularly with regard to the two Lodges
located at San Jose. Bro. LOWE has done some good work in reviving a lagging
interest in Hayward, No. 226. This District is a credit to the Inspector.
FBEDERIOK W. LuoAS, Inspector Twenty-eighth District, has forwarded a
very carefully prepared report, indicating a watchful interest in the atfairs of
the Lodges placed under his charge. Bro. LuoAS has held t~e position of

52

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

Inspector for twenty-five terms, and is not only alive to the important duties
bis office imposes, hut is also most conscientious in their di~charge. He h~
visited all bis Lodges, and their condition is as favorable as circumstances will
admit of. Bro. LucAB is an advocate of maintaining a rigid uniformity in the
rendition of the work and of fTequent meetings for practice and compariso~.
His report is replete with detail and interesting information, and I am sorry it
cannot be presented in full.
WILLIAM ADAMS. Inspector Twenty-ninth District, reports Maripo8a, ~o.
24 in first·class condition, but has suffered from loss by death of three of its
m~Bt active members. Hornit08, No. 98, is on the decline, and unless mining
interests revive will be obliged to surrender its charter or consolidate with its
neighbor. The Lodge has funds but has conferred no degrees. Yotemite,
No. 133, is on the highway of prosperity, having increased its membership by
degrees and affiliation, and there is plenty of work ahead. ·
JAMES LEONARD, Inspector Thirtieth District, submits a full and cheerful
report of existing conditions. Depression and hard times seem to have missed
his seven Lodges, and most of them have done considerable_ work. He rec~m­
mends the division of his District, it being too large to admit of close attention
b the Inspector ; one District to include Madera and Mert"ed, another Los
i:.nos and Newman, and a third Modesto, Oakdale and Knight's Ferry. Thus
it would be possible for the Inspector to do his work thoroughly, inexpensively
and without much loss of time. Be suggests that our Grand O~cers sh_o uld be
compelled by law to visit the subordinate Lodges and thus revive the mterest
which sometimes lags. The Grand Lecturer endorses the recommendation to
divide this District and also the Thirty-second District, both covering too large
a territory to admit of effective service by the Inspectors. In regard to visits
b the Grand Officers, I believe that if they knew the great benefits to be
d~rived by the country Lodges from these visits, particularly when timely
notice is given, that no laws would be necessary to induce their attendance.
A. o. CoLLINB, Inspector Thirty-first District, has visited Inyo, No. 221,
and finds it fairly proficient in the ritual Winnedumah, No. 287, is well up
in the work and the records of both Lodges are well kept. He has no.t visited
Bodie No. 252, as it involves a trip of over one hundred miles by rail and
forty' miies by stage. Inasmuch as Bodie is not accessible in winter, and
Masters-elect are unable to submit themselves for the Inspector's examination
within the prescribed time, I recommend that an Inspector be appointed and
Bodie, No. 252, constitute the District.
J. c. ENSIGN, Inspector Thirty-second District, has visited nine of the
thirteen Lodges, and finds them all, with one exception, in a. flourishing condition. Traver, No. 294, is weak. The town is suffering a decline, and the
Lodge is affected proportionately. They miss some of their stated meetings.
Trials are in pro~ss in Traver, No. 294, and Hanford, No. 279. Generally
speaking the Lodges all do good work. The Secretaries take pride in keeping
neat and accurate records, but in many cases the Masters have failed to sign
the minutes. The District has been greatly benefited by the District meeting
held at Viaalia last March, and a repetition is recommended. This District
should be divided. The territory it covers is entirely too extensive. Kern .

Grand Lodge of OaUfornia.

1895.]

county and Porterrille should constitute one District and the balance of the
Lodges another.
GEORGE B. STANIFORD, Inspector Thirty-third District, reports his Lodges
in a fairly prosperous condition ; the officers have been faithful, zealous and
efficient. · He mentions in words of keen appreciation the visit of the Grand
Master and the Grand Lecturer's Representative, Bro. W. R. EvANS, Inspector
Twenty-fifth District.
JAlllES F. KINGSLEY, Inspector Twenty-fonrth District, reports hie District
in a comparatively prosperous condition. All the Lodges are doing some work,
and while none are letter-perfect in the ritual, they will, he thinks, compare
favorably with other Districts, excepting those of the large cities and business
centers. He has visited all the Lodges and represents them to be in perfect
harmony with themselves and each other.
J. A. FOSHAY, Inspector Thirty-fifth District, presents a full report, every
word of which testifies to the healthy growt_h. of the Lodges and the superior
quality of the new material. This District is remarkable in many respects.
It is one of the largest, and, althouith far from headquarters, is very proficient
in the work. The Inspector and Bro. CHARLES L. ENNIA, Worshipful Master
of Southern California, No. 278, are among the best posted of those with whom
I have compared the work. The social features of the meetings are practi~ed
with beneficial effect, encouraging a closer acquaintance and a livelier interest.
WILLIAM E. SLOAN, Inspector Thirty-sixth District, renders a brief report,
having visited each of the Lodges comprising his District and finding them in
a most satisfaetory and harmonious condition.
WILLIAM J. MossHOLDBR, Inspector Thirty-seventh District, finds all the
Lodges of his District doing good work. This is a small District and the
Inspector has done thorough work. None of the Lodges have been slighted,
but have each received several visits, so the Lodges contemplate with pride
what they have accomplished, and the Inspector has the satisfaction of having
all necessary material for a favorable report.
MARION A. M~GES, Inspector Thirty-eighth District, presents a complete
report to the effect that the eight Lodges of the District are prosperous, ea.ch
having a surplus. Each Lodge has done some work and the future looks
bright. The work is creditably· performed.
ANDREW BROWN, Inspector Thirty-ninth District, reports Hawaiian, No.
21, at Honolulu, as doing excellent work, as a result of considerable experience
and practice. Twenty degrees have been conferred during the year.
The Inspectors' reports will finally be placed in the hands of the Grand
Secretary for convenient reference. They contain an abundance of interesting
detail which cannot be embodied in this report without rendering it too voluminous, and a perusal of them by those who desire more complete information
is resPf>Ctfully invited.
RBCOMlllll:NDATIONS.

'

The foregoing will show that while time would not admit of my visiting all
the Lodges, or even all the Masonic Districts of the State, yet all sections of
the State have been reached, to the extent of visits to one or more Lodges in
twenty-three of the thirty-eight districts of the State. The disadvantages of

54

Procee<lings of the

[Oct. 8,

the district.ti remotely situated a.re many. I am sorry to say that a very few
of the District Inspectors are not as proficient in the work as they should he,
nor as they would be if they were given an opportunity to acquire it from a
competent source. It is, therefore, not surprising if the Lodges a.re not able
to render the work as it ought to be rendered. I have visited few Lodges
where some feature did not present itself that I had never heard of before, and
I must attribute that fact to the necessity of utilizing brethren who have taken
the degrees in various sections of the East, and who have perhaps occupied
chairs in the Eastern Lodges, and these brethren have unconsciously introduced phraseology and floor movements entirely foreign to what the Grand
Lodge prescribes. Now, assuming that it is the object of this Grand Lodge to
have our beautiful ritual worked with uniformity and not allow the work of
the various other Grand Jurisdictions to stamp out its individuality, and,
further, that ultimate economy is a desirable feature, I submit the following
plan of action : Pay a sala.ry amounting to enough to justify a Grand Lecturer devoting his
entire time to the work, which would give him ou an average, say ten days to
each district (some districts will require more, some leBB), but make it his duty
to visit every district and stay until the Inspector is perfect and give the
officers of the Lodges, who are accessible, as much general instruction as
poesible. I would furthermore recommend that each Inspector select the
Master or some Past Master of each Lodge, who will perfect himself in the
entire work and appoint him an autli.ority on the work in that particular
Lodge, for the convenient reference of its officers, subject, of course, to the
correction of said Inspector. These Past Masters could sit with the Grand
Lecturer and Inspector during the former's visit to the district.
I believe that with this system in effect for a period of two years, more will
be accomplished than the present plan will yield in ten. I might, with
profit to the Craft, have spent weeks where I was only able to spend days. If
the work is once firmly planted in each district it is likely the present system
can a.gain be resumed. It is apparent that this Grand Jurisdiction has been
growing more rapidly than some of us realize, and while the present plan may
have been ample for the needs of several years ago, it certainly is ina.4eqnate
.
now, particularly considering the tremendous area of the State.
The proposed plan wonld place the work of the office on a more busmeSBlike basis and make the teaching of the work more a matter of duty than of
the Grand Lecturer's individual convenience. The matter of limiting the
Grand Lecturer's expenses, it seems to me, is a mistake. If he has been diligent and has expended his limit, he is then constrained to cease work rather
than pay his own expenses ; hence some work might be left undone which
otherwise wonld have been performed. If, on the other hand, the work is not
pushed with energy and little traveling is done, then the limiting of expenses
is a nseleSB precaution. In other words, the limit of work should not be
circumscribed by a limited amount for actual and reasonable t ra.veling expenses.
This suggestion is not the result of the authorized amount for the pa.st year
being too small, because the limit was not nearly consumed ; but my expenses
were less than the Grand Lodge can reasonably expect those of my successor
to be.

~895.]

Grand Lodge of Oal1ifornia.

55

_\"bile on the subject of expenses, a number of instances ·have come to my
notice where Inspectors have failed to visit certain Lodges because they have
not been asked to, and the invitation is apparently withheld on account of the
t.odge's inability to pay the Inspector's expenses, even for one visit a year,
In two instances I found Inspectors who would not accept expense money
proffered by some Lodges, because other Lodges in the district had not offered
to pay, or had not paid. If an Inspector's purse is long enough to stand it
without curtailing his usefnlneSB, presumably no one can object; but, the
Inspector being willing to contribute his time and talent, it would seem that
an occasional week's boa.rd and actual necessary outlay of cash is not an
unreasonable return for his services, and surely most of the Lodges can stand
a solid week of instruction at lea.st once a year. General Regulation No. 15
covers the case and permit! the Inspector to visi£ a Lodge at the Lodge's ·
expense whenever he deems it neceSBa.ry in the faithful discharge of his duties
but the Inspector hesitates, from a sense of delicacy, to force an expense upo~
the Lodge, and he cannot always afford to make a trip at his own expense,
A Lodge should not be allowed to offer economy as an excuse for permitting
the .work to become warped into distortion, and I recommend that each Lodge,
durmg the coming year, extend an invitation to its Inspector to pay it a visit
at a time mutually convenient, for the purpose of instruction; that the visit
be as protracted as the circumstances require, and that he also be asked to
present his bill to the Lodge for actu~ expense incurred, and that it be acted
upon just as the Lodge would dispose of a bill for rent or fuel.
In conclusion, let me express my warm appreciation of the uniform courtesy
and expreBBion of confidence vouchsafed by all the brethren whom I have met
and their ready disposition to render assistance in my efforts to carry out th~
work imposed upon the office of Grand Lecturer. The year has been one of
infinite plea.sure and great profit to me as a. result of personal contact with so
many genial and enthusiastic Masons.
Respectfully submitted.

'

HARRY CHARLES BUSH,
Grand Lt.aurer,

Which report, with the accompanying reports of the several
Inspectors, was ordered to be referred to a special committee of five ;
and the Grand Master named the following brethren to constitute
such committee-

On G-rwnd Lectwer'a &purt: ...... . . . . .. ... . ... .

William Sewall Wells,
John Allison Beckwith,
Frederick William Lucas,
{ James Louis Barham,
Michael David Lininger.

Bro. EDWARD MEYERS PRESTON presented the report of the Boa.rd
of Trustees of the Me.sonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, and the
reports of the Secretary and Treasurer, as follows:-

56

Proceeding~ .of the

[Oct. 8,

1895.J

To the M. •• W'. •• JAMES BAUNTY STEVl!.NS, ·
Grand Master of MasonR of CaJ,ifernia:-

The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home herewith
submits its fourth annual report, embracing its transactions during the past Masonic year.
We highly appreciate the fraternal courtesy shown to us by yourself and the
members of this Grand Lodge, bv your patient forbearance with the delays that
have been caused by the unforeseen difficulties and perplexities which have heretofore beset us in our efforts to carry to a successful completion the great trust
which you committed to our charge. Permit us to assure you that there are no
other members of this Grand Lodge who are more anxious or willing to expedite
this work than the members of the .Board of Tl'Ulltees.
We are happy to announce that the obstacles which have heretofore impeded
the progress of our work have been overcome, and that we are now prepared to
carry forward the work of improving the grounds and of constructing buildings as
rapidly as the necessary funds are provided to pay for the expenditures, as the
expense bills fall due.
The question of an available water supply, which had not been decided at the
time of our last annual report, has now been successfully solved. We have
secured, from the owner of lands adjacent to our premis~s at Decoto, the perpetual
right to the waters of certain springs which are situated at a sutlicient altitude to
carry the water, by gravity, to the highest portions of the buildini:is which are to
be constructed. The supply, as determined by W. R. ECKART, C. E ., whoije
observations and conclusions are embodied•. in bis written report, now on file
in the office of the Grand Secretary, will be amply sufficient for all the domestic
requirementR of the Home, and also to supply a ~torage reservoir, to be reserved
for emergencies and to protect the buildings from destruction by fire. When this
water system is completed and paid for, the institution will be relieved of any
further expense for the purchase of daily water 11upply or for artificial power for
pumpin11.
After having completed the negotiations for an adequate supply of water, the
Board of Truste•s reconsidered their action relative to the sale of the Decoto
propertv, as reported by us to the Grand Lodge at its last session, and, without a
dissenting Yoice, voted to establish and maintain the Home on the lands and
premises which we now own at Decato. At the same meetinir the Board, by vote,
decided to proceed at once with.such prelimmary improvements on the property
aB are necessary to construct the wa;ter system and to prepare the grounds for
laying the foundation of the building_
We also contemplate the immediate construction of a driveway from the county
road to the proposed site, and the planting of fruit and ornamental trees. In this
· connection we are pleased to announce that the brethren of .Alameda Lodge, No.
167, located at Centreville, within whose jurisdiction the Home is located, have
generously agreed to plant ten acres of our land to fruit trees, and to cultivate the
same and care for the trees for an entire year, and then to tum the orchard over to
the Board of Trustees free from all expense to the Board.
Being thus equipped and ready for the actual work of constructing the Home,
we again appeal to the charitable impulses of all Masons and all Lodges throughout
the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California, for additional contributions of
funds in such generous amounts as shall insure the speedy completion of the Home,
and exemplify the open handed hospital'ty and broad charity which have always
been characteristic of the people of Cali ornia.

Grand L0<J,ge of California.

57

Relative to the $845, which was referred to in our last annual report as due
from W. F . .PllRRY, we beg to state that we have been unable to oollect the
amount in money, but, throU,lth the efforts of our attorney, Bro. C. L. PATTON,
who served without compensation, the Board of Trustees effected a settlement of
the claim by securing the assignment of a trust deed to certain lands in Lassen
county, which lands are to be sold under the conditions of the trust, and the proceec!s, which are estimated to be ample for the purpose, to ~ applied to the payment of the claim.
It is with sadness that we refer to another visitation to the membership of this
Eoard by the reaper Death: Bro. .A.r.BllRT HANSl!.N departec\ this life on the
twenty-ninth day of April, 1895. The vacancy thus caused in the Hoard was filled
by the appointment of FRANK MARION ANGllLLOTTI, Past Master of Marin
Lodge, No. 19L
We also regret that another vacancy was caused by the resignation of Bro.
GUSTAVUS LANGFORD SPEAR, who was unable longer to dischaTge his duty as a
member of the Board on account of ill health." This 'vacancy was filled by the
appointment of Bro. CHARLllS LEWIS PATrON, Past Master of CaJ,ifornia Lodge,
No. I.
In addition to the foregoing statements, we herewith submit the reports of
our Treasurer and Secretary, showing receipts and disbursements during the
current year, also the amount of available cash which we have on band for immediate use. In addition to the cash on hand we have unpaid subscriptions amounting to $20,406.64, which amounts should be paid as rapidly as practicable, for all
of these sums, and much more, will be needed before the work of construction and
equipment can be completed.
The business depression and financial stringency which have prevailed for the
last two years, to the detriment of our subscription list, are now happily passing
away, and with returning prosperity we look confidently forward, believill,lt that
the brethren and Lodges throughout this Grand Jurisdiction will see to it that the
necessary work of this noble charity is not delayed for lack of adequate funds for
its completion and equipment.
Fraternally submitted.
EDWARD MYERS PRBSTON,
EDWARD COLEMAN,
JACOB VoORSANGER,
FRANK MAP.ION ANGELLOTI'I, BToai·d qf
CHARLES LEWIS p ATTON,
rustees.
GEORGE HINDS,
THOMAS KYLE,
.

l

J

REPORT OF SEORETARYTo the Board of T'l'UllteeB of the Masonic WidowB' and Orphan1' Home:-

.

The undersigned herewith submits his account of receipts and payments from
t~e first day of October, 1894, to the first day of October, 1895, as follows:-

1894.
RECEIPTS.
Dec. 18. From Ophir, 33, ....... .. __ ..... _.... .. _. _.................... 8 43 50
1895.
Jan. 28.
Inyo, 221, ...... _... . _. . . • . . • ....... _•. , .. . .. _..•..... _ 25 00
Feb. 9.
La Grange, 99, ............ - ...... - - . - .... - ...... .. - .. _.. 100 00
" 14.
E. Salz, rent of property at Decoto,.. . ... _... ... ...·.... _ 459 65
June 17.
Vacaville Lodge, No. 134, and Chapter 0. E. S.,.......... 85 10

..

Making total receipts for the year, of, ... . •....... . . . . . .... S713 25

Proceetiings of the

58
1895.
Feb. 14.
Sept. 30.

[Oct. 8,

The receipts of the Board from the first day of October, 1894, to the thirtieth day
of September, 1895, inclusive, have been as follows:-

Making total payments for the year, as above, of, • ......... S713 25
Respectfully submitted.
GEORGE JOHNSON, Secretary.

l('rom .d88essm.ents upon the Oity Lodges :
Amount brought forward ..... $1,733 60
No. 1,....... $436 42
Oalifornia,
No. 189,.... ... 129 77
97 38 Orockett,
17,. . .....
ParfaitP Union, "
" 144,....... 184 60
185 80 Oriental,
22;.......
Ouoiclental,
" 166,....... 173 48
30,....... 167 85 Euelsi.or,
(}oW,en Gate,
" 169,... • • . • 270 28
44,.. .. . .. 189 55 Mission,
Mount Monah, "
95 36
" 120,....... 226 70 So. San Fr'sco, " 212,... .. ••
~lUy,
" 216,....... 179 60
" 127,. .. .... · 102 70 Doric,
Hermann,
" 186,....... 327 70 .qpm·•a ltal£ana, " 219........ 170 10
l'actftc,
Amon at carried forward ..... $1, 733 60 King Solomot•'•, " 260 •" .... • 196 45

REPORT OF TREASURER.
To the Board of T~tees qf the MGaonic Wi.dowa' and Orphana' Home;The undersigned herewith eubmite hie account of the receipts and expenditures
of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home for the past year, as follows :.
1894-95.
Oct. 1. Balance on hand ae per latit account, . .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. ... .. . 8913 12
Received from Grand Secretary daring year,. . . .. .. . ....•...••••..••... 713 2.5
81626 !fl

Being a total amouot of receipts from assessments upon the Lodges, of..•. $3,193 23
Receipts from other sources were as follows:.Appropriation from the Grand Lodge, .. , .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . • . . .. .. .. .. .. • $ 4,000 00
Refunded to the Board by s11ndry Lodges and brethren of Calirornia,..... 1,088 25
Refllnded by sondry Lodges and brethren of other Jnrisdictious,.......... 9,118 10
Received interest amounting to,. .............. ,..... .. ...... . ........... 2,231 40
75 00
~ecelved donations amounting to,..... .. . . .. • • . . . . . . • . . • . . . . .. .. . .. . .. .

DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid for printing, ae per vouchers 67, 68, ........................ 8 15 50
Paid for traveling expeneee of Trueteee, as per vouchers 62, 65, 70,
71, 72, 73, .......... . ... . ........ .. .... .. ...... : .. . . . . .. .. 124 40
Paid Secretary's salary, as per voucher 63, . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . 75 00
Paid taxes on building lot, as per voucher 64, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 62
1 50
Paid recording deed from Perry, as per vourher 69, • . . . . • . . . • • . . .

- - - 8265 02

Being an aggregate amount of receipts, from all sources, of. •. . .•• . $18,646 98
161 93
To which add the balance on band September 30th, 1~94... . . . • • • . • • . • • • •

' Sl361 35

All which ie respectfully submitted.
EDWARD 0oLEHAN, Trtal'llrl'/1',

All which were referred to the Committee on Finances, and, on
motion of Bro. FRANCIS ELLSWORTH BAKER, the President of the
Board was requested to furnish a supplemental report, giving fuller
particulars as to extent and value of the property of the Home.
The Grand deoretary, on behalf of the various Masonic Boards of
Relief of the Jurisdiction, presented their annual reports to the
Grand Lodge, as follows :
SAN FRANCISCO.

7b the M. •• W. •• Grand Lodge qf Oalifornia :The undersigned beg leave to present their aonnal report of the Masonic Board
of Relief or the City of San Francisco for tbe year commencing on the first day of
.
October, 18941 and ending on the thirtiet'h day of September, 1895.
Since the first Saturday in January, 1895, the Lodges of the Oity or San Fran·
clsoo have been represented in the· Board of Relief by their Masters or delegates, as
follows:No. 189, byT. ROWLANDS.
OaJ.ifomia, No. l, by ED. W. l'lcABODY, Orookett,
" 144, " OlliRLKS BONK.
Oriental,
Parf. Union , " 17, .. JULl!l8 AURADOU.
" 166, " BARRY J, LASK,
Occidental, " 22, "MtOH.ARLJ.SAVAO& Exoelsi.or,
" 169, " OYBUS 0. Dow.
&olden Gal.e,'' 30, " T. H. MACDONALD. Mission,
Mt. Moriah, " 44, " F. R. WHITCOMB. So. San Fran., " i12, " Gso T. SHAW.
" 216, " I,. M. HOEFLER.
" 120, "B&NJAllllN ABllER, Doric,
Fidelity,
Sper'a Ital'a, " 219, " C. BALZARINI.
Hermann. " 127, " FB!TZ HAOBlllAM.
K.ing8olomon'•.'' 260, G.GUNZENDOllFBR
" 136, " M4BTIN JONES,
Paai/io,

59

At the first meeting in J:annary, 1895, the following officers were elected to eerve
one year, viz.: Bro. H.t.BBY J. LA8B:, Chairman; ·Bro. G&OBGE T. SHAW, Treasurer;
Bro. ELIAS C. HA.BB, Secretary.

PAYMENTS.
Paid Treasurer, as per hie receipt, .• : . • •••.•. • •.. • .• . •...• • • · .'459 65
.. . .. • .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. 253 60
"
" " "
"

Balance on hand October let, 1895, .... : . . . • . • • • . • . . • • . .

Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornia.

1895.J

'

Making a total to the credit of the charitable fund of • • . • . • . • • • • • • • . . •. $13,807 91
Tbe disborsements daring the year have been es follows:For the relief of eick and needy brethren, ............................. .. $6,530 10
For the relief of wives, widows and children of brethren, •••• .•• ... . .•••• 6,7113 60
For enndry unclaesed ..................... , . . ......................... .
221 70
Being a total disbnreement for charities of ........................ $11,515 40
To which is to be added for salary of the Secretary and sundry incidental
expenses, ............ .. ............ .. ............................ 1,754 85
Making the total expenditure for the year, ...................... . $19,270 25
537 66
Leaving a balance in the treasury September SOth, 1895, or..............
The som of $1,088 25, reported above as having been" refunded to the BoarJ by
enndry Lodges and brethren of California," was received from the tollowing :Bakerw[i,eld,
No. 224, ..... $165 00
Amount brought forward, ... . . . $768 25
'.Beai· Mountain,
·76,. ...... 145 20 Michigan Oity,
No. 47,. ..... 10 00
"
'Benicia,
5, ....•. 10 00 NaTJal,
87,. ..... 17 00
Ore scent,
45, ...... 23 05 North Eaat,
" . 266,. ..... 10 00
Delano,
81,. ••••• 10 00
" 309, ...... 20 00 RuSllan Ricer,
Forest Olty,
66, ...... 111 00 San Joaquin,
19,. ••.•• 25 00
G\bsonviUe,
148, ...... 30 00 San Joae,
10,. ..... 15 00
Henry Olay,
95,. ..... u 00 Santa Rosa,
57, ...... 5 00
BiU1 Ferry,
178,. ••..• 25 00 Silvey ville,
201, .••••• 10 00
"
Inyo,
3, ...... 98 00
" 221,. .•.•• 45 00 Tehama,
llejferson,
97, ••••• 15 00 Union,
58,. . . ... 55 00
Madlaon,
23,. .... . 155 00 Wilmington,
198, .. .. . 5 00
.Ma112anita,
102, ...... 10 00 Yuba,
39, ...... 60 00

"

.

.

.

..

.

".

Amount carried forward •••••.. S768 25

Total amonni refonfted, •.•.•• $1,088 25

60

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 8,

Attention is called to the fact that dimitted Masons, their wivee, widows,
or
children to whom relief is given, are classed with Lodges of which they
were last
members.
The sum of $3,118 10, reported 88 having been "refunded by sundry Lodges
and
brethren of othe1· Jurisdictio ns," was received from the following :Judah,
No. 358, N. B. W. $ 4 50 Alhland,
No. - , Nebraska $ B 00
IJen'Oer,
6, Colorado 10 00 Gavel,
199,
6 00
Union,
7,
38 50 St. John's,
"
25,
16 00
Unior.,
40, Coon.... 20 00 Garson,
" 445, New York 27 60
Grand Ri'Oer,
34, D. 0 .... 10 00 Continental,
" 287, "
35 00
BeUuiew,
96, Florida.. 17 fiO Erie,
" 161, "
10 00
Irlnho Oity,
1, Idaho... 75 00 J<J1YPa,
" 210, "
" 100 00
Nez Perces,
10,
20 00 Masters,
"
5, "
33 15
Lafayette,
" 133, Indiana.. 3 40 Pottsdam,
-,
34 00
Robert Burns, " lli, Illinois..
4 00 Troy,
'· "
5 00
Du Quoin,
" 234,
10 00
Waverly,
" 407, New York 15 00
Burning Bush, " 4.U, Iowa.... 63 00 Battle Mt'n,
23, Nevada. 16 OI
Hebron,
73, "
42 50 Garson,
1,
317 30
Met1·opolitan, "
82 00 .
49, "
S•
92 50 Virginia,
Saline,
" 226, KsnPas.. 22 50 Racine,
"
46, Ohio.· · · 7 50
Winfield,
68,
10 00
117 50
Western Star,
21, "
Aurora,
" 193, Louisiana 5 00 Harmony,
12, Oregon .• 20 00
Phamb;,
2', Maine... 16 00 St. John'11,
63,
6 00
--,
68, Maryl'd. 27 .;o Franklin,
" 221, Penn .. . 12 60
Washingto n,
-, Mass . ... 90 00 Mfrirltan Sun, " 158,
50 00
Powell See,
-, "
50 00 St. Joli.n's,
" 320, Scotland 26 00
Oapitol,
66, Mich ... . 166 00 Raaine,
•· 94, S. O...... 6 00
Lo'OeU Moore, " 181, "
6 00 El Paso,
130, Texas... 406 95
Valley (]Uy,
86, "
2 00 Pecos Valley,
U. D.,
16 75
Midwa.11,
" 185, Minn. .. 5 00 Lone Star,
No. 403,
50 00
Palestine,
•• 79, "
14 00
Webber,
"
6, Utah .•· · 10 00
Star,
62, "
6 00 Black Diamond ," 88, Wash... 18 00
Lamar,
" 292, MiBSoori 661 55 Renton,
29.
60 00
Independence,
76,
25 00 St. John's
11,
15 00
Neosho,
" 247,
20 00 Tacoma,
68,
16 00
Jonw,
38, Montana 20 60 Sundry uncla888d •.•••. • .. • .• • • • 25 00
Ban L. Potosi, "
-, Mexico.. 160 00
Total amount refunded . ...... ..... ....... . .... .. .... .. .. • • .. • ... sa,118
10
The 11 um of $11,515 40, noted in tho foregoing as being the " total disbursem
ents
for charities," was disLributed as follows:To. 62 cases from California, ... $2,909 BO
Amount bronght forward,. .. $4,161 00
" l case
Alabama, . . .
4 05 To 2 cases from Jd11.ho, . • • • ..
74 BO
" 2
" 2 cases "
" Illinois ,. . • ..
British Ool.,
21 25
10 00
" 3
Brazil ...... ~06 00
Indiana... ..
1 C88e
39 60
Indian Ter .•
Canada, ...••
25 75
2 co.sad "
1 00
" l case
,. 1 ,,
,, Ireland •.• .
Colorado ...
43 46
100 00
.4
,. 6 cases "
lows .. . ... . 254 75
Connectic ut . 313 50
" 6
Italy ..... ..
Ohina ...... .
29 00
" 1 case
39 00
s
Jamaica •... • 210 00
Denmark .. ..
u
1 case
1 "
6 00
Japan .......
England .•.. ,
5 00
279 25
" 1 "
" 5 ca•es
Kansas . .•••• 246 36
Florida ..
" 5 cases "
16 00
" 1 case
14
2
,,
Louisiana ...
Honolnin, H.I. 309 20
lo oo
1

....

"
.... .. ..
.. ..

-----

Amount carried forward, . • .. U,161 00

Amount carried forward, ••• . $5,156 75

1895.]

Grand Lodge of OaUfornia.

61

Amonnt carried forward,. .... $15,156 76 To 5 cases from Oregon,. ....
$197 00
To 2 C88es from Maine • • . • • .
41 00
" 6
"
Pennsylva nia 349 90
" 2
Maryland . ..
41 60
" 4
Prossia • . • • •
46 00
" 4
MaBSschosetts 101 00
'' 1 case
R. Island,...
80 00
" 5
Michigan, . . . 250 00
" 13 cases "
ScoUand . . . • 329 80
" 5
Minnesota . • 100 tO
" 1 case "
B. Carolina,.
10 00
" 5
MiBSourf,.... 650 85
" 4 c88es "
Spain,... .... 260 75
" 1 case
Mootaos . • • .
20 50
4
Texas. .. .. .. 546 75
" 2 case• "
Mexico... ...
166 00
" 1 case
Utah, • . • • • • •
20 00
" 3
Ne brasks • . •
30 50
" • cases "
Vermont,. .. • 336 50
•• 4
"
N. Brunswick 255 50
" 1 co.se
Veoeznels ,..
26 00
" 21
New York...
786 40
" 8 cases "
W88hingtoo,
229 15
2 "
New Zealand
11 50
" 6
Wiscooaln ,...
65 60
" 6 "
Nevada • .. .
459 06
" Sundl'y nnclasse d,.......... 221 70
" 3
Nova Beotia.
101 00
" 15 cases from New S. Wale11, 508 30
" 2
Ohio..... ... . 139 00
---Total,. .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .........$11,516 40
RECAPIT ULATION .
Balance in the treasnry Septembe r 30th, 1894,. . . • • • . • ..••..•.•. . •••.•
$ 161 93
Received from assessmen ts npon the city Lodges, .•..•..•.• • . ••...••..• •
3,183 23
''
,. Grand Lodge appropriation, . . .. ... . ... .. ... . .
4,000 00
" Sundry donations, .. . .......... .. .... .......... . ........ .
75 00
re)>syments for relief to applicants from California , .• • •. .•.... 1,088
25
repaymen ts for relief to applicants from other Jnrisdictio ns,. .• 8,ll8
10
interest amounting to ........ ... ..... . .. . ... ... .. .... .... .... . 2,231
40
Total receipts for the year, .......... .......... . ......... .... . ........
$13,807 91
From which dednct the expenditu res of the,Year, as before,.. ....... 13,270
25
And there remains a balance in the treunry of.. .......... ........ . • • .
$537 66
Of the foregoing sum of $11,515 40, disbnrsed for the relief of the sick
and distressed, there was expeoded For Masons of the Jnrisdictie n of Californi a,........ . • • . . • • . • • . • . •• •• ••
$ 786 80
For Masons of other Jurisdictio ns, .......... ....... . .......... .. .....
. 4,743 30
For the wives, widows, and orphans of M88oos of California , •......••. •
2,123 00
For the wives, widows, and orphans of M88ona of other Jnrisdictlo ns, • ••
3,640 60
For snndry nocl888ed .......... ....... .. .......... ........ . ....... . ... ,
221 70
Making the total relief, 88 above, of.......... ......... . .... $11,516 40
The expenditu res above enumerate d do not ioclnde aoy outlay for members
of
Lodges of the City of Ban Francisco, or for their wives, widows or 'children,
as
Lodges of this city provide for their owo deHtftote and distressed .
The following is a summary of the receipts and disbnrsem ents of the Board
dnring
1he forty years of its existence :Receipts.
1866 1894.
1895.
Totals,
·From City Lodgee, .•. ••• .•. .. .• • •••..••.•. $126,238 BO
$ 3,133 28
$128,872 03
From other sources,.. .. . .. .. • • . . ..... ... . 200,018 28
10,512 75
210,531 03
H

.... .

Grand tQtals,. .......... ......... . $325,257 08
·
Disbursements.
1856-1894.
Masons of California ,. .......... ... .... ... $ 46,707 00
Masons of other jilriadictio oa; .. ..... .. . ... 121,308 43
Widows and Orphans of California ,... . ..... 34,119 15
Widows sud Orphans of other joriadictlo ne, 93,503 31
Inciden ta! expenses,. . ........ . . • • • . • . • .. . • 29,467 26
Snndrin nnc1888ed ..•••••••• .••.•••• . •.••

113,645 98

Grand totals, ..... . .......... ...... $326,096 16

113,270 26

1895.
I

786 BO

4,743 30
2,123 00
3,640 60
1,764- 85
221 70

... .

$338,903 06
Totals.
$ 47,476 80

126,051 73
36,242 16
97,143 91
31,212 11
221 70

$338,347 40

62

[Oct. 8,

Proceedings of the

The following brethren have been bnried with :Masonic honors, nnder the direction of the Board, since the date of last report:1894.
No. 266 .. Fort Bidwell, Cal.
Nov. 15 .. CHABL11SFR11D'K:MATB11.N,.of North E.Lst,
" 17 •. GusTAVB A. BAUER, ......last a member of Hermann, No.127, San Francisco, Oal.
1895.
Feb. 19 .. GBOBGB A. LLOYD, ....... Member at large.
No. 191, .. San Rafael, Oal,
Mar. 17 .. JAKES P. CHBIBTliNSBl'I,.. of Marin,
" 222,. .L.Providence,L a.
" 22 .. WILLUM M.. AITXBN, •.••• " Pecan (}r01Je,
" 57, ..Santa Bosa, Oal.
" 24 .. JOHNFRANKLINWHITTIKB," San!,a Ro•a,
" . 24 .. JACOB RoSBNHEIM, •••••• .last a member of San Mateo, No. 168, Redwood
Olty, Cal
29 .. TH011us GoBDON, ........ .last a member of Jefferson, No. 97, La Porte, Oat.
No. 400, .. Brnntisland, Boot.
HBRBBRGEB,. .of .Duneran, .
Apr. 4 .. ALFRBD
" 201, .. Brooklyn, N. Y.
7 •• HBRMANN BBINCKEBHOFF," Joppa,

c.

49, . Dubuque, Iowa.

1( .. SYDNli:Y BooTH, •• ••••••• '' Metropoli.tan,
14 . . JoKN C. PLou:r, .... ...... 11 Saint John's

''

9, .. Seattle, Wash.
14 .• GEORG& BALLA.RD, ••.••••• Jast a member or .EzceZ.ior, No. 166, San Fran·

''
"

cisco, Oal.
25 .• JOHN E1sL11B,. ..•••••.•.. of .King.Solomon'•• No. 5,.• Tombstone, Ariz.
.. 123, . . Lafayette, Ind.
" 26 .• JBROMK BONAPARTE Oox,." Lafayette,
May 7 .. 0LIVBB PIBROB,. ......... Iast a member of Bear Mountain, No. 76,
Angels, Oal.
H .. CHARLES BUBHBB,•..•••.. late a member of Erl.e, No. 161, Buffalo, N. Y.
" Virginia, No. 3, Virginia, Nev.
June 11 .. GUST.A.VB PBBBIN, ........ "

No. 3, .. Sacramento, Cal.
19 .. NELSON L. BEBGS:VIN, .••• of Tehama.
1, .. 8. Lake Oy.,Utab.
"
21. . MARQUIS Li:vr, .......... " Wasatch,
26 .. Eua.ENIO B1ANOHI, • . ..... • last a member of Judah, No. 888, Melboarne,

,,
"

••

Australia.
Ang. 12 .• J'OHN LBVINSKY,.......... of San Joaquin,

No. 19, .. Stoakton, Cal.
29, .• Port Blakesley.
18 .. OHABLES ENQUIBT,••.•• ••• '' Rent.on,
••
21.. HBNRY SAVAGE, ............ Oommonweallh, " 4.09, .• Brooklyn, N. Y.
12,. .St. George, N. B;
Sept. 17 .. JOHN GILLBSPIK,. . ....... " St. George's,
68, •• Leaven.worth,K an
Oct. 1 .. JAOOB ENXLE,. ........... " H1ram,
All which is respectfolly sobmitted.

HABRY J. LASK, Ohairm.an.

E. O. BABE, Seoretaly.
LOS ANGELES.
7o the M. '. W. '. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia :The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of Los Angeles presents its report to the
eighth day of October, 1896, as follows:From the date of the last report to the sixth day of Jannarv, 1895, the personnel
of the Board was as last reported. On that date the Board reorganized as follows,

viz:

MEHBBBS OF TBB BoABD,
CARL FR!i:DBRIOK AUGUST LAST, Master;

Los .Angelss Lodge, No. 42. ... .. • • • { SAMUKL PBAGKR,
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202.. . • . • • • ·

l

EDWABD ANTHONY PBBUSS.
GBOBGE VARCOB, Master;
OH.ABLES W11SLBY BLAKB,
BBNBY JoSBPH LLOYD.

1895.]

'

Grand Lodge of California.
OHARl.£8 L. ENNIS Master •
,
GEORG.II BINS.AB.AUG~.
{
JOHN CAL~IN CUNNll!GHAM.

Southern California Lodge, No. 278.

~nset Lodge, No. 290.... ... .. . .. •

BoUenbeck Lodge, No. 319. . . • • • . . • .. •

63

{

{

FRANK PUTNAJII FLINT, Master;
EDWARD LBE STBPHBNS,
FRANK UOMMAR WILLIS.
JOHN MARCUS DUNSMOOR, Master;
WILLIAM JAMES VARI.EL,
CYBUS WILLARD.

FRANK CHABLBS WoLFx, Master ;
0HARLBB RuseKLL TAYLOR,
ALBXANDBB ROSEBOROUGH FRA.BBB.
The present ofHcers of the Board are as follows: SAMUKL PBAGBB Pr Id t .'
CeABLBs L. E11x1s, Vice-President; GllloBGB SINSABAUGH, Treasurer • CaA:~xsenW,
•
'
BLAKE, Secretary.

South Gate Lodge, No. 320... ..... .

{

The receipts of the Board from the tenth day of October 1894 to the eighth d
ay
'
'
of October, 1895, have been as follows:$
Balance on hand last report • . • • .. • .. • ... • • • . .. .. • • • . • .. •
104 61
Appropriation from Grand Lodge .............. _ ......... :
1,500 00

Account Assessmentll from Oity Lodges :Lo• Angeles Lodge, No. 42. _................ .... _....... _.$180 oo
Pentalpha Lod11e, No. 202... .. ... .. ...... .......... ..... 307 78
:ul~ Oalifornia Lodge, No. 27!! . . ..... .. ............. : 252 50
unset odge, No. 290 ........... _............... ... _•• _. 53 08
Hollenbeck Lodge! No. 319............ ..... • . . • . • . . . . . . . 68 06
South.Gate Lodge, No.820 ........... . ...... ......... . 56 96
. Total from Olty Lodges .... . ................ .... ..
Received from Lodges in California . .
Received from Lodges in other Jnrisdl~ti~~~ .......... • - •.
••. • • ·• • · • • • · • •
Received from all other sources

............................

$928 88
20 20
562 15
92 00
---1,602 73

Total amonnt received . .. • • •• _................ . .
The Board has disbnrsed the following amonnts : Paid loan reported last year ................ ............ $ uo 66
For the relief of sick and needy brethren and widows of
:Masons in California ............. _. __....... _• _. 345 &5
For the relief of siok and needy brethren and widows of
Masons in other Jnrisdlctlons•.• __ .... _. : . •. •.• • • 2 271 22
Expenses of the Board during the past year, which include '
postage, telegrams, stationery and expenses for
funerals, amounting to the som of . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 283 11
Total amount disbursed by the Board BB per warrants_ _ _ _
numbered 689 to 713 and 1 to 233, both inclnsive .• S,310 84
2 2 16
Add also the sum of. ... ........ . ................ ....... .
Expended by Secretary under the direction of the
Board, for Which no warrants have been drawn,
makes the total amount expended ... . .......... .
A
125 66
mount of overdraft.... ................ . . .. . • • .. • • • .. • • .

3,332 88

64

Proceedings of th£

[Oct. 8,

By an arrangement with the Treasurer, Bro. SINSABAUGH, we have been per·
mitted to overdraw rather than suspend the work of the Boa.rd.
In the expenditures above enumerated no moneys have been paid for the reli~f
of any Mason, his widow or orphans, belonging to city Lodges, each of the six
Lodges being amply able to ca.re for its own.
The sum of $283 11, classed as expenses, includes salary of Secretary, $100_ 00,
leaving the amonnt of$183 11 as the cost of telegrams, statio~ery, f~neral notices
and other lnoldeota.ls incident to the management of the Board, 10clodmg funerals.
The Board gra.tefnlly acknowledges the many favors received from Bro. GsoRGB
c. PERKINS in the matter of transportation furnished to worthy distressed brethren ~o
their homes in various parts of the State. His assistance has aided ns greatly 10
keeping down the amounts expended, not only In the mere mat~er of \ran?porta•
tion, bot also in placing the needy among friends, where they did not reqmre any
assistance from the FratMnity.
Since the date of the last report the following brethren have been buried with
Mayonic honors, onder the direction of the Board :
1894,.-December 4, D.a.vrn GILBBBT, Oold1Dater, No. 485, Harrisonville, .Mo.
1895-Janoary 23, HILLIA.BD LoWENBTllIN, Pomona, No. 246, Pomona, Cal.;
February 12, J.a.111&8 E. GBIFPIN, Ne10 Bolton, No. 59, New Boston, Ills.; February
20, JOHN M. ERDMAN, Sanf,a Paula, No. 291, Banta Paula, Cal.; Ma.rob 23• ALONZO
s. RrnH, (}eneua, No.139, Geneva, Ille.; March 20, F. W. BONN.&NBllRG, <Jarden Oity,
No. 141, Chicago, Ille.; May 5, D.a.vm G. ~oKBLVEY, Mosaio, No. 418, New York
City; Jone SO, FRANKP.ALTRIDGE, Alm£!, No'. 72, Gault, Ontario; Joly 17, WILLIAK
T. MILLER, Hudson, No. 7, Hodson, N. Y.; Joly 21, CHARLRB F, LORD, Hope, No,
175, Belle Plain, Ia.; Joly 26, J.P. WOODBURY, Oenl.er, No. 34, Rutland, Vt.; Angnst
29, WILLI.AH C. Ho.a.GI.AND, Oakland, No. 188, Ouklaud, Cal.
The bodies of Bro. CHABLEB F. GB1111N, Ohio Olly Lodge, No. 46, Martin's Ferry,
Ohio, FB.UIK A. K.APBILL, Mystk Tie, No. 758, Chicago, Ills., and GLllN HILTON,
Huntingdon, No. 83, Hnntingdon, W. Va., were also forwarded to friends In the
East nnder the direction of the Board.
There is still another ma.tter that w~ wonld call to the '.attention of the Grand
Lodge for advice or action. September 1st, 1893, the following telegr~m ·WaB
pla.ced in the hands of the Secretary:ATLANTA, G.a.., September let, 1893.
Past Master LADD In good standing. Em~alm body, pla.ce in receiving vanlt with
Masonic honors until fnrther orders. Send bill.
·
p "
L. D. C.ARPENTBB, • JD.,
On Inquiry it was fonod that Bro. A. C. LADD of A.tlanta, Georgia, had depar1?d
this life at one of the lodging houses in this city. A telegram by the Secretary ehc·
ited the following response : ·
ATLANTA, G.a.., September 2, 1893.
C. W. BU.KE, Los Angeles, Cal•
.Atlanta Lodge, No. 59. Please take charge of papers and effects.
L. D. C.ARPBNTER.
This was followed the next day by a telegram as fofiows :ATLANTA, G.a.., September 3, 1893.
C. W. BLA.KB, Los Angeles.
Place body in cloth metallic casket. Deliver to W ABBEN SKITH for Atlanta.
L.. D. CARPENTER, P. M.
The body was prepared for shipment by Me8srs. G.a.mTT & 8.AllPSON, nnder·
\akers. On inquiry as to the cost of same, it we.& fonnd to be two hundred and
eixty-Ove dollars. As the Board of Relief did not feel able to advanc_e that amonnt
another telegram was sent to Atlanta and in reply received the followrng :-

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California.

65

ATL.A2'T.A, G.a.., September 4.
C. W. BL.AKE, Loe Angeles.
.Atlanta Lod1te, No. 59, F. and A. M., guarantee payment of two sixty·Oveundertaker's hill--to G.a.RRBTT & 8.AMPBON.
L. D. 8'rBPHENB,
W. ·• M.-. .Atlanta Lodge, 59.
Acting nnder these instrnctions this Board guaranteed payment to Messrs. G.ABRllTT & SAMPSON of the amount of their bill, and the body of Bro. LA.DD was shipped to
his old home In Atlanta In charge of bis friend, Bro. W.a.BBBN BlllTH. who was with
him at the t.lme of bis death: (Bee Report for 1893,)
This bill hBll never been paid, althon.11:h more than two years have elapsed since
that date. Messrs. GARRETT & SAMPSON sent their claim to the a.dminletrator of the
estate of Bro. LADD, and, on the dissolntion of the copartnerebip, placed the account
in the hands of their attorneys, Messrs. CON.ANT & JOHNSON, of this city. or late we
.c an get no answer in regard to the same from either the Secretary of the Lodge or
the administrater of the estate, whom we believe to be a Mason. The letters of the
Secretary of this Board, and also of the attorneys, have received no answer,
although not returned. What is our dnty in the matter? We feel that we have
obligated ourselves for the payment of the debt, and we also feel that .Atlanta
Lodge, No. 59, should stand by us in this matter, and at least keep ns posted in re·
gard to the same.
We would respectfnlly call the attention of your Most Worshipful Body to the
amount of expenditnres by ns during the past year, as showing the demands made
upon the Board; and alHo to the fact that the deficit reported at this time is a.boot
ooe·third of that represented by the report of last year.
Trusting that yon will remember the needs of this Board in the futnre as in the
past, we fraternally submit the foregoing for your consideration.
SAKU\l- PB.AGllB, Preridtmt.
C. W. BL.AKI, Secretary.'
OAKLAND.

To the M.-. W.·. (}rand I,o!jge of Oalifornia :The :Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith respectfnlly presents a. report
of its transaetions from October 4, 1894, to October 3, 1895.
Up to January, 1895, the Board was constituted as given In our 1894 report.
Since the first Wednesday in January, 1895, it has been constituted as follows:JOHN ALLISON BllOKWITH1 M!wter;
Li1'e Oak Lodge, No. 61 ....... .. .. { Enw.ABD BBNRY BA.BT, Senior Warden;
W.a.LTBR GRISWOLD Muu.e:L, Jon. War.
CHARLES FRBDllBIOK OTT, Master;
Oakland Lodge, No. 188 . . .. .... .... { GILBBBT BABBBR ·D.ANIBLS, Sen. war.;
Z.a.oHABY T.a.YLOB GILPIN, Jun. War. ·
FRANCIS MARION NORBIS, Master·
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225. .......... SilicEL BwIFr, Ben. War.;
'
{
THOS. BALDWIN RIPLBY CB.ANDELL, J, W.
The officers of the Board are: CHARLES FREDBBIOK OTT, Chairman; JoHN ALLI·
SON BBCll:WITH, Treasurer; JUNIA Josu.11 W.a.RNEB, Secretary.
The above were elected to ser.ve notil the first Wednesday in January, 1896.
The recdpts a.nd disbnr•ements of the Board from October 4, 1894, to October 2
1895, inclusive, are as follows:-'

5

66

Proceedings of the.

[Oct. 8,

1895.]

RBO&IPTB.

Live Oak Lodge, No.61. •• : •......... •••. . ••.•..... .. •. . .•.•••••• $171
25
Oakland Lodge, No. 188 ........ ..... , ... . ......... ........ • • • ·
180 75
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225 . . . • • • .. . • • • • •• • ......... ......... .. • • •
65 45
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 .••.•.••• ••••• . •...•.• • ••.. • •• · • · ·• · • · · •
35 00
.

- $ 452 45
Gre.nd Lodge appropria tion, 1894 ... . .. ......... ..... . .... . ; ..
350 00
•. ·
Refunded by Lodges in Ce.lifornie. ......... ......... ......... . •
474 70
· ••
Refunded by Lodges in otber Jurisdicti ons •..•..•... •••••••. •• •••·
428 35
Refunded by individne.l brethren assisted ...•••..• • ...• .•..•.••
137 00
··•
$1,842 50
Tote.I receipts ........... . •.......• .•. • • • • • · · · · · • · • .. · ·
Add balance in tree.snry, October 3, 1894 .•.••.•.• •. ·. · · · • · • · •
114 20
· ··

-

·

Total e.ve.ilable funds during the yee.r•.•..•... •.. · • • · · · • • •

$1,956 70

DIBBUJIBlliMENTB.
For relief of sick e.nd needy brethren e.nd bnrials •..•..• • .. • · · • • ·
···
For relief of widows e.nd orphans of deceased brethren .• • • • • · · ·
••·
Expenses for Secretary , stationery , postage, telegraph ing, etc.··
•.

$1,162 70
610 00
156 80

$\ ,929 50
Tote.I disbursem ents ......... ......... .... • .. ··•···· .. ···
Add be.le.nee in treasury October S, 1895 • . .. .. ......... .. • · · ·
27 20
•• ·
Makes e.vaile.ble fonds as e.bove......... ......... .. ... ·..
Sl,956 70
The snm of $47' 70, reported as refnnded by Lodges in Ce.lifornie
., we.a received
e.s follows: Oorinthian Lodge, No. 9, Marysville ......... ........ •· • • •• • · · ·
$ 60 00
·
15 00
Petalum a Lodge, No. 77, Pete.Jome. .•••..•. • • ·. •·• •• · • • • ·• • • ••
240 00
Naval Lodge, No. 87, Vallejo ........ ... • .. • • •• · · ..... • • .. • • · •
8 85
Vaca11ille Lodge, No. 134, Ve.ee.ville . ... . ..... •• · .. · · • · · • ·• .. ..
Paaific Lodge, No. 136, Se.n Francisco ...... . ......... •· .• ·•.•••
10 00
( 55
Antioch Lodge, No. 175, Antioch .••.•••. . .. • ••. .•. .. · •. · • ·•• ·•
Ptmtalph a Lodge, No. 202, Los Angeles ......... ....... •· ... ·• ..
55 80
80 50
Fresno Lodge, No. 247, Fresno .•.•...• •· · · • •••• · .• ··•••• • · ·•
Tote.I. ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... . .
$ 474 70

The sum of $428 50, reported e.s refonded by Lodges ill other Jurisdict
ions, we.a
received e.s follows: Peninsul ar Lodge, No. 214, Dowagia c, Mich ...••• · ...••..•• .• ··
$ 28 00
50 00
Birming ham Lodge, No. 44, Birmingh am, Mich ...••• •·•• •.. ···••
Saint Johna Lodge, No. 25, Orne.ha, Neb . ......... ......... . ••••
10 00
40 00Gard.en Oity Lodge, No. 161, Chicago, Ill . ........ ·· ... · ·. · · · · · · ·
50 00
Maroa Lodge, No. 454, Me.roa, Ill ......... ......... . ··· ... ······
50 35
Mount Tabor Lodge, East Boston, Me.es . · •. · ..•• .. . • • · • • · · · · · ·
Fitchburg Lodge, Fitchburg , Me.ss ......... .. • ....... • • .. • · .. · • •
150 00
.Aclelphtc Lodge, No. 348, New York, N. Y ....... • • •• ·•. · · ·•· • ..
50 00

·····················

1 <Jase from .Ale.be.me. ..•.••••• $ 40 00
" Azores •.••.•••• •• 50 00
13 cases
California .••.••.• 587 15
1 case
England ...•••.•• . 194 50
4 cases " Illinois ..•...•.• .• 135 00
2
Indie.ne. .. ........
15 00
2
Iowe. . . •..••.... ••
15 00
l ce.se
Ireland ••••••..• •
2 00
1
Kansas . •..••....
2 00
Kentucky .•.•.•••
l
5 00

1

l/Tom OUy Lodge-A s1e1sme ma and Oont.Mbutions:-

$428 35
Tote.I .••.•..•. •.
The sum of $1,720 70, reported e.s disbursed for charity to brethren
, their widows
and orphans, we.s distribute d e.s follows: -

Grand Lodge of California.

..
..
. ..
... ....
"

67

Amount brought forward .••. $1,045 65
1 case from Michigan ..•.•..•• •
56 75
4 ce.ses
Me.ssachasetts •••••• 136 85
3
Nebraska .•••••••• . 185 50
3
New York ....•.... 219 90
2
Oregon .•.•••••• •
17 50
1 ce.se " Pennsylv ania .•••..
2 00
3 ce.ses " Scotland.. ..•.••••• •
46 55
1 case " Virginie. ••••••.•• •.•
10 00

... ...
.. ..

.... ......

Tote.1 . .°•••••••
• •. $1,720 70
Oe.rried for we.rd ••••.••.. •••. $1,04.li 65
Total cases assisted, 45.
During the yee.r covered by this report the following named brethren
he.ve been
buried with Me.sonic honors, under the auspices of our Boe.rd: 1894-0c tober 24, JOHN B. RusT, of Birmingh am Lodge, No.
44, Birminghn.m,
.Mich.; Decembe r 4, JOHN A. !&VINO, of Mt. Tabor Lodge, Ee.st
Boston, Me.ss.; De·
camber 27, ABB.A.HAil D. BTARB, of Oorin.t hian Lodge, No. 9, Marysvill
e, Oe.1. 1895May 16, W ALTEB P. 8TBVENB, of Pent.alpha Lodge, No. 202, Los
Angeles, Oe.l.; June
6, LEONARD W. Buox, of Vaoaville Lodge, No.134, Vacaville , Ce.I.;
July 30, FRANK
GBOBOE, of Antioch Lodge •.No. 175, Antioch, Oal.; Septemb er 13,
EMIL EHRLICH, of
Adelphic Lodge, No. 348, New York, N. Y.
Also oil February 23 the remains· of Bro. DAVID A. WETZELL, then
e. resident of
Oakland, e.nd e. member of Maroa Lodge, l\o. 454, Me.roe., Ill.,
were sent to Farmer
City, Ill., for burial, e.ccompe.nied by his widow and five children,
transport ation
e.nd e.11 matters of detail pertainin g thereto beillg e.rre.nged by this
Boe.rd.
.Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244, of this city, has not yet joined our compact,
bat con·
tinnes to contribut e e. monthly sum not e.t e.11 commens urate with
its members hip,
while tbe three Lodges now comprisin g this Boe.rd assess themselv
es libere.Ily, e.nd
ce.rry on the work of relief which the.t Lodge should e.lso assist them
in doing.
NoLwlthstandiag the.t the period covered by oar le.st report we.s
considere d one of
great financial stringenc y and industrial depressio n, we have
expended this ye&r
$600 00 in excess of le.st yee.r, e.nd see no diminution in
the number of ce.lls for
charity.
·
For the first time in the history of this Board, it becomes oar se.d
duty to chron·
lcle the dee.th of one of our active members . Bro. FBANOis MARION
No&RIB, Master
of Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225, stricken in the prime of manhood ,
passed on to his re·
ward in Jane of this yee.r. Honored for his loyalty ,p.nd devotion
to oar gree.t
brotherho od, the Me.sons of Oakland sincerely mourn his untimely
dee.th.
All which is respectfu lly submitte d.
CllA:&LllS FB&DlliBICK OTT, Ohairnlan.
JUNIA JosIAB WABNEB, Beoretary.
SACRA.MENTO.

To the M. •• W. •• Grand Lodge of Ca/,ifornW..~
The Me.sollio Boe.rd of Relief of Sacramen to respectfu lly submit
the following
report:The present Boe.rd we.s organized on Je.nae.ry 6th, 1895, e.ad
consists of the
following :M. T. CoPPBBSKITH, W. M:., Oonoord, No.117, Presiden t; Lome
G.llau.oH, W • .M.,
Union, No. 58, Vice-Pre sident; W. F. WuBD, W. M., Saoramento, No.
40, Tree.s11rer;
GBOBOE ~· EBEBT, w. -.M., Waahington, No. 20, Secretary , e.nd
F. L. THIBlllliLD,
W. M., of Tehama, Na. S.
·

68

Proceedings of the

1895.]

[Oct. 8,

Relief brethren In California. . • . . . . . . . • • • • • • • • .. . . . • .. • . • • • . . . • • • • 12 00
"
" other Jurisdictions .... . .. ..... ..... . ....... .. ... 155 00
"
widows ............................... . .................... 485 00
Br.amp3 ....................................... ................ '....
3 00
Printing . . . . . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • .. . .. • • . • • • • . • • . . . . .
7 00
Telegrams.. . . . • . . • • • • • • • • • • • . • . . • . . . . . • . • . • .. . • . .. . . • • • • . . . • • • • 16 00
Dr. G~DNER, medical services........... . . • • • . . . • . . •. . . • • •. . . . . . 35 00
J. F. CLARK, undertaker .................. .. .. .... ... .. ........ ·• 41 00
Wood ....................................... :........ •••• .......
7 00
Oonoord Lodge . . • . . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • . • . .. • • • • .. • . .. • • • . • • • • • • .. . . • • 10 00
Sundries • • • • • . . . . . . . . • • . . . • . • . • • . .. • • • • • • . • .. . . .. . • • • . . . . . . • . . • • 29 75
- - - $800 75
Balance . • .. • . .. • • • • . • .. • . . • • • • • . . .. • • . . • . • • • • • . • • . • • • . • . . .
13 36
Tbe following named sojonrning brethren were buried with Masonic honors, under tbe auspices of our Board : W111. M. MURRAY, Nash'tlillB, No.-, Nashville, Tenn.; FRANK A. RANLllTl', SouUt
San Francisc<>, No. 212, Sao Fraocboo, Cal.; GOB. F. BUCHHALTBB, Cor+fidence, No.
:!OS, Castroville, .Monterey Conoty, Cal., and tbe remains of Bro. ALFRED WoRSBLEY,
Michigan Oity, No. 47, Michigan Bluft', Placer Co., Cal., were sent to bis late
home.
Respectfully submitted.
11{. T. OoPPBBBlllTB, Pre1ident.

From assessments on San Dlego Lodge, No. 35 .......................... $ 168 50
"
"
" Bil'tler (}ate Lodge, No. 296 . ... . .... .. .. .... .... . . .
60 89
" South West Lodge, No. 283 . • . • • . .. . . . . . ... .. ." ..•..
28 69
~o~I from three Lodges ....................................... .. $
Appropr1at100 from Grand Lodge............ . . . . • .. •. . . • . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . •
Refunded by California Lodges ..... ........................ .. . . . . • • • • • •
"
" Lodges out3ide tbis Jurisdiction •
"
" Brethren "
"
.. .. · · " · · · · · · "· • • · · • "· • ·
.. • ..••••.. •.·.... . . . . . . . . .

Total credit to charitable fund ................................... Sl,835

Tu the M. •• W. •. Grand Lodge of Oalifomia :The undersigned beg leave to present the following report of tbe Masonic
Board of Relief of Ban Diego for the year ending September 30th, 1895:
Tbe brethren now co11stituting tbis Board are as folio.we: San Diego Lodge, No.
35, OILBEBT CoNGEB ARNOLD, Master; Sil'tler Gate Lodge, No. 296, EUGENE DANBY,
Master; South West Lodge. No. 283, E. A. HoBNBECK, Master.
·
At the regular meeting in Jannary, 1895, the Board elected the following officer•:
G. B. ARNOLD, President; EUGENE DANBY, Treasurer; JoBN Kv.EP BLACKMER, of San
Diego Lodge, No. 35, as Secretary.

29

DISBURBllllllENTS.
For the relief of brethren of California .. • . . .. . • .. .. .. . . .. • . • .. .. • .. . . .
"
•· other Jurisdictions. . . . . • .. • • . .. .. . . . . . .. . .. .
" widows of California brethren .................. . .. . ,....
" other Jurisdictions...... . . . .. • . . . .. • .. . . .. . . . .
"
" expensu of Secretary's office. . .... . ................................ . . .

2 50
768 43
10 45
287 40
28 00

sl,09678

b Total disbursements ...... . ................................ . .....
Lost y bank failure . ......... .. • • . . • . • . . . . . . . .. .. . . • . . • . . . • .. . • .. . . . • .
Casb on band ................... , . .. . . • . . .. .. . . . . . • .. • . . . . .• . .. .

263 72
474 79

$1,835 29
brethren of tbe Jurisdiction of
Cahforn1a, was expended by mistake, and immediately repaid by San Diego
Lodge, No. 35.
~be ~um of $2 50, reported paid for the relief of

. ~be sum ~f $7~8 43, reported paid for tbe relief of brethren ooh!ide'of the Jarisd1ctioo of Cahforma, was expended as follows:Miobigan
............... . .".... ... ... .. . .. ... .. .• • •• ........ . .... .. $ 3 96
· 11 case,
.. l\{
•
1 "
wex1co ............. . ................. : ..... .................... 5000

1
1
1

l
BAN DIEGO.

258 08
100 00
12 95
254
03
108 65

Total receipts durioa
. ·
-.. year .. ...... . ..............................
$-733
71
Balance on h~nd ~ctober lst, 1894 . • . . . . .. • • • • • . ................... : • • . s.~ 7 86
lo broken Cahforo1a National Bank.................................. ..... 269 72

1

GEoRGl!l E. EBBBT, Secr6lary.

69

RECEIPTS,

REoBIPTS,
Balance, September 30tb, 1894 ...................................... $ 5 28
Appropriation Grand Lodge .••• , .••.•.•••••••....••..•....•..••.• 250 00
Tehama Lodge, No. 3 ...•••.•.••.•..••..•••.••......•..•••. ...••• 100 00
Washington Lodge, No. 20 ..•••.•••...••• .•• • ••.. ... , . . . .. . . . . • • . 56 90
Sacramento Lodge, No. 40.... .• • .. . . . • • . • • . . . . • • .. • • • .. . . . . •• • • . 70 20
Union Lodge, No. 58 .................... .' ........ . .. ..... ........ 77 as
Ooncurd. Lodge, No.117 . ....••...•.•••.•.•.•••••••• • •••.•. .• .••.• 45 00
Refunded by California Lodges .......................... ... ... . ... 126 50
Refunded by Lodges In other Jurisdictions . • . . • . . . . . • . . • . • • • . • . . . . 30 00
Bro. M. T. CoPPERSHlTB . . . .. •. . . . •• • • • • •. • . . • •. . . . .. . . . .. ..... .. .. 15 00
Bro. FRANK MAY . •• ,................... . ....... ...... .. ......... .. 22 00
HENRY STRONG estate • . • .. . . . . • • • • . . • • . . . • . . . • . . .. .. . • . . . . .. • • • . 10 85
l\{re. H .u uus . .... •• • • . • ..• . . • .. • • . .... • • • • .. . . . . .• . . . •. . • . . . • • • . •
5 00
- - - $814 11
DIBBUBBBlllE!ITS.

Grand Lodge of C<ilifornia.

1

1
1
1

l
1

1

..

w:!~I~~~~~·:::::: ::: ::·.:::: ::: :::::: ::::::::: ::::::::::::: ::: ::::.: : :

................... .................................... 10 00
101 20
107 30
30 00
27 65
10 00

;::~:;k·.-:·::: ::: ::: ·:·:::: ~:::: :~:::: :·: :::::::::::::::::'::::: ::::
'

...... .... .

15 00
27 70
•••••.•...••..••.•..• ••·••·· •.• •. . .. •• •• •..• . .• . . . .
2 75
3 15
Nebraska .. ... ..................... . ...... ... .................... .. 21 00
~~~r~:o ... ...................................... ............... . 129 00
g ..... . .. .. . ...................................... ........ . 38 00
Massachusetts... ... . .. . . . . .• . . • • .. • • • • . .................... .
51 77
Illinois ........ ... . ...................................... ....... .. 84 95

······················································

$768 43

70

Proceedings of the

1895.J .

[Oct. 8,

The som of $10 '5, reported paid f~r the relief or widows of brethren of the Joris·
diction of Oaliforoia, was expended as follows:1 case Mount. Moriah Lodge, No. 44......... ... ..... ... • .. • • .... .. . . .. .. .. 10 45

$ 48 48
Balance cash on hand. . . . . . .. • • .. . • • • . . • .. . • • • . .. • .. • . . • •
.Assessment to San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19 ... . .................... $ 25 25
68.. ... ....... .. .. ........ 32 oo
"Morning Star "
57 25

f287 40
Total number of cases relieved, 24.
During the yee.r covered by this report, three brethren, having died within oar
Jurisdiction, have been buried with Masonic bonore:November 7th, 1894, WILLIAM R. CBUDBR, of Granite Lodge, No. Sii, Vermont;
Augaet 17tb, 1895, NATHAN PLATT, of .Ashier Lodge, No. 33, Nebraska; September
12th, 1895, WILLIAK OoLLil:Y, of Richard Cole Lodge, No. 697, Illinois.

$105 73
Reepeclfnlly submitted.
I. H. ROBINSON, Ohairnian.

E. E. Hoon, Secretary.
SAN JOSE.

The som of $12 95, reported refunded by Oalifornia Lodges, was received as
follows:January 8, from Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44 .......... . ..................S 10 45
June S, from San .Diego Lodge, No. 35... ..... ...... . .. .. .. .. .... .. .. .... .. 2 50

To the M.·. W.-. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia :Expenditures of the Ma.sonic Boa.rd of Relief, oan Jose, Ca.I., for the year ending
September 30, 1894 : To casb paid for the relief of M. MANZO.................... . , .. .. .... $ 10 00
'' JAMES BOYD .••••.•.•••••• • ••.••••••. . .. "1".
,,
••
3 00
u B. BAKER .•••••••••••••••• . •••..•••••• •• ••
,,
'00
" Mrs. CJUPKAN and lier orphan children ..•• 180 00
"
"

$ 12 !l5

The eom of $254 OS, reported retaoded by Lodges outside this Jurisdiction, was
received as follows : - ·
November 4, from I,oa Animas Lodge, No. 28, Colorado ................... S 64 00
March 26, Granite Lodge, No. 35, Vermont ............................... 107 30
April 3, from Monitor Lodge, No.-, Massachusetts..... .............. . .... 50 00
Joly 2, from Spokane Lodge, No. 84, Washington......... . ............ ..... 10 00
Joly 8, from Somer88t I.odge, No. 34, Cooneoticot.. ... ••• • • • .. .. . . . . . .. • .. . 20 00
July 27, from Phamiz Lodge, No. 75, Peoosylvaoia . . . • .... .. .... • ... .. • .. • • 2 73

Total • • • .. .. . • . .. . .. .. • • • • .. • • • • .. • • • . • • . .. . . • • • . • ........... $ 197 00
Received from Grand Lodge . . .... . .. ... .. ................... , .. . . . • • . • . . 180 00
.A.mount paid for the relief of Bro. Jomt CBAPIUN, late a member of Eacu·
rial Lodge, No. 7, F. and .A. M., Virginia City, Nevada, and his widow
and orphan children, from the year 1883 op to October let, 1895, .••.. $2,112 00
D. v. MABO.l!BY, !koretary.

$2~4 03

G. C. ARNOLD, P1·esidnit.

To the M.-. W. •• (}raft(]. Lodge of Oal!fornill:-

L. C. GoBD0.11, Ohainnan.

All which reports were ordered to be referred to the Committee
on FiDBnces.

All which is. respectfully submitted by

STOOKTON.

71

Expeoditores for the same time have been:For relief of widows ofother Joriedlctions ......................... $ 5 50
77 60
~ brothers of other Jurisdictions ................... ,....
" this Jurisdiction .. . . .. . . . . • .. • .. . . . • • .. • .. 10 00
"
" foreign Jorisdiotlons.. . .. .. • ... • • .. .. • • .. • 25 00
"
"
1 85
For expense-telegraphing...... ...... .... . • .. • . .. . .. ..........
- - - $119 85
.

. The sum of $287 40, reported paid for the relief of widows outside .the Juri~dic·
tion of Oallfornla, we.a expended as follows :1 case 111.aine . . . . .... • • .. • • • .• .. . . • . .. .. • . • .. . . . • .. . . . . .. • .. . • .. • • • .. ..• $180 00
Mexico ............................................................ 103 40
1
4 00
" Illinois.. • .. .. • • • .. . . .. . • • .. • • .. • • • .. .. . .. • • • • . . • • • .. .. • .. • • .. • • • . .
I

J. K. BLAOXlllEB, &oretary.

Grand Lo&]e of California..

I•

The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock to-morrow
to-morrow morning.

The onderslgoed, present officers of the Masonic Board of Relief of the city of
Stocldon, Cal., respectfnlly report the following as the financial transactions of the
Board from the date of the last report, October let, 1894, to October let, 1895 :The officers for the present year are: Is.I.AO H. ROBINSON, of San .Toaquin Lodge,
No. 19, Chairman; DBRBIT OLIVER CABTLB, of .Morniflg Steir Lodge, No. 68, Treasurer; EDwARD ELBRIOOB Hoon, of Morning Star Lodge, No. 68, Secretary.
The receipts of the Board eln~e the last report have been : Balance .in Treasurer's bands, October let, 1894 ............. . ...... $ 27 83
Grand Lodge appropriation. .......................... • • • .. . . . . .. . . 100 00
Moneys refunded . • .. . • .. . . • .. .. . • . .. • • .. . .. . • . . . . .. . . .. .. .. • • • .. 40 50
- -- $168 38

MORNING 8E88ION,

l

Wednuday, October 9th, .A.. L. 5895. f

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand Me.ster
presiding.

72

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

1895.}

After music by the choir, the minutes of the sessions of yesterday
were read and approved.
'

The following jurisdictions have been reviewed : -

San Joae, .•...•. . No. 10, .... ALONZO BABBITr HAMILTON, Past Master.
Santa 0'1'11Z,. . .. No. 38, .•.. SAMUEL BABNET, l'ast Master.
Yuba, ......••... . No. 39, .... CHARLES E. STONE, Past Master.

Furbest<Yum, •. .•.. No. 50, ... . WILLIAM JOHN SoHULTZ, Senior Warden.
Union, . .......... No. 58, • .. { Lours G AMBAOH, Master;
THOMAS BENTON REID, Senior Warden;
YaUey, ..•...••.. No. 135, .... THOMAS TREBIL WASLEY, Jun. Warden and P. M.
Paci-fi,c, ..•••...• • No. 136, .. j ALMOND RALEIGH MORROW, Senior Warden;
1 JAMES WRIGHT ANDERSON, Past Master.
Olaibqrne, . ....... No. 185, .. .. LAMBERT LEWIS ARCHIBALD, Master.

Oakland., ...... .. No. 188,. ... UHARLES FBEDEBIOK Orr, Master;
Frimdship, .. .... No. 210, ..•. SAMUEL ALFONSO BARKER, Past Master.
S. San FranciBco,.No. 212, .... GEORGE THOMAS SHAW, Master and Past Master.
Oak GrO'IJe, ...... . No. 215,. ... DBNNIS JOSEPH SULLIVAN, Past Master.
Granite, ... ••.. .• . No. 222, .••• !BA LEMUEL DELANO, P. M. and Representative.

Solano, ......... .. No. 229, .. .. JOHN QUINOY ADAMS, Paet Master.
Caliatoga, ..•.. ' •• No. 233, .... WILLIAM FREDERICK FISHER, Representative.

Orland, ........• No. 265, .. . . JAMBS BYRON MORBIS8BY, Representative.
Callayomi, •..... . No. 282, ...• GBOBGB ARTHUR SACBY, Master and Past Master.
Maxwell, .. •....• No._288, ...• HENBY JASON CooK, Master and Past Master.

Loa Gato., •..... . No. 292, ...• JOHN EDWARD ELLIS, Representative.
Emmanuel, ••.••• No. 318, ..•. WENDELL PHILUOlU8 HAMMON, Master.

The ld.'. W.-. EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON, P. G. M., and the

R.·. w.·. JoHN QUINCY AnillB, P . D. G'. M., appeared and took their
seats.
Bro. WILLiill ABBAHill DAVIES, from the Committee on Correspondence, presented the following report, the reading of which was
dispensed with, the members of the Grand Lodge having been furnished with pri.nted copies thereof : To the M. •• W. •• Grand Lcxl{;e of Oalifornia:Your Committee on Correspondence respectfully submit the following report
for your coneideration. The report is a review of all the American Grand Lodges
together with twelve foreign Grand Bodies.

73

In writing the report your committee have endeavored to carry out their idea
of the purpose of a correspondence report, viz : to set forth the condition and
prospects of Freemasonry in other jurisdictions in condensoo and concise form for
the information, and, perhaps the guidance of Masters, Wardens and Representatives in this jurisdiction. If we have succeeded in our efforts to meet the approval
and the beAt interests of our brethren at home we shall be abundantly rewarded
for the labor expended.

Bro. A.lmBEW MURRAY HENDRY, from the Committee on Credentials,
reported the following additional officers of Lodges and Past Masters
by service within this jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to
seats, viz: from-

Which report was concurred i.n, and the brethren therei.n named
were admitted to seats . .

Gramd Lorige of OaUfornia . .

l

ALABAMA, ........... for Dec., ... 1894
ARIZONA, ... ... ...... " Nov,, .. 1894
.AB.KANSAS,., . ... . .. . . " Nov., .. 1894
BRITISH COLUMBIA .... " June, .. 1895
COLORADO, . .... ...... " Sept., ... 1894
CoNNEOTTOUT, ... . ... . " Jan.,. .. 1894
DELAWARE, . . ...... . . " Oct., •.. 1894
DIST. OF CoLUMBIA, . . ,, Nov., .. 1894
ENGLAND, .... . ..... .. "
... 1895
FLORIDA, ..... ...... to
... 1895
GEORGIA, . : ... . .... . for Oct., ... 1894
IDAHO, ............... " Sept., .. 1894
ILLINOIS, .. ....... . . . . " Oct.,, .. 1894
INDIANA, ............. " May, ... 1894
INDIAN TERRITORY, . .. " Aull'., .1894
IOWA,. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. June, .. . 1895
IBEL.o\ND,. . .. . ........ "
... 1895
KANSAS, .... ... ...... " Feb.,. . . 1895
KENTUCKY,. ........ . . " Oct., ... 1894
LoUISTANA, .. . . .... . . " Feb.,. . . 1895
MAINs, ............... " May, . .. 1895
MANITOBA,. ... .. .. .. ..
• .. 1894
MARYLAND,. ......... " Nov., • .. 1894
MASSAOHURETTS, .. ... to Dec, . ... 1894
MIOHIGAN, .. : ... ..... forJan.,. .. 1895
MINNESOTA, .. .. .... . . " Jan., . .. 1895
MISSISSIPPI, ....... .. . " Feb..... 18.'!5
Mu;soum, •...... . .... " Oqt., . . . 1894
MONTANA, ... . . . .. .. " Oct• . .. 1894
NE!IBABKA, ........... "
.. . 1894
NEVADA,. ... : ..... .. . to June, .. . 1895

NEW BRUNSWIOK, ..... for Aug., .. 1894
NEW HAMPSHIRE, .... " May, . .. 1894
NEW JERSEY, ........• " Jan., .. . 1894
NEW MEXICO, •. . . . . .. " Oct., ... 1894
NEW Sou·r H WALllS, .. " July, .. 1894
NEW YORK, .......... " June, .. 1895
NEW ZEALAND, .. .. .. " April, .• 1894
NORTH CAROLINA, ...... Jan., •.. 1895
NORTH DAKOTA, ........ June, •. 1895
NOVA SCOTIA, ...... . . to June, .. 1894
0Hto,. ... . .: .. ... .. ... for Oct.,. . . 1894
OKLAHOMA, .......... " Feb.,. . . 1894
ONTARIO, CANADA, •.. "
... 1894
0B&GON, ... . . ..... . .. "
. .. 1894
P.11:NNSYLVAJ-."IA, ....... " Dec., .. . 1894
PBINOE ED. ISLANJJ,.. ..
. . . 1894
QUEBEO, ........ . ... .. for Jan., . .. 1894
RHODJI ISLAND . . . .... to May, . .. 1894'
SOUTH AUS'I'BALIA, . .... April, ••. 1894
SOUTH CAROLINA,. ... •for Dec., ... 1894
SOUTH DAKOTA, ...... " June, .. 1894
TENNESSEE, ............ Jan., ... 1894
TEXAS, .... ..... .. : .. • " Dec., ... 1894
UTAH, ..... ... . ... ... " Jan., •.. 1894
VERMONT, .. . . . . . . .... "
•. . 1894
VIOTOBIA,..... ... .. . . ..
.. .1894
VIBGINIA, .. .. . ; ........ Dec.,. .. 1894
WASHINGTON, .. .... . . " June,. .. 1895
We:sT VIRGINIA, .... • • " Nov., , .1894
WISCONSIN, : .. .. .... . " .Tune . .. 1894
w YOMINO,. .. . .. .. . . . " Dec, .... 1894

ALABAMA.

The Grand Lodge of Alabama held its seventy.fourth Annual Communication
in the city of Montgomery, December 4, 1894,-the M . '. W. ·.FRANCIS L. PE'l'I'US,
Grand Master; R. ·. W. ·. H. CL.&Y ARMSTRONG, Grand Secretary. Two hundred
an:I ninety Lodges were represented. There were present four Past Grand Masters, two Past Grand Wardens, and the Representatives of fourteen sister Grand
Jurisdictions.
•
The Grand J.odge was opened in Ample Form, with pr&ytJ by the reverend
Grand Chaplain.
In hie Address, the Grand Master gave thanks to the Great Ruler for abundant
harvests and a decided improvement in ihe general condition and prospects of the

74

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California. ·

75

people of Alabama. Renewed interest, he said, was manifest in Masonic affairs,
and the year had been one of prosperity. He pByB the following compliment to
the MBBone of Alabama :-

amendment of the Constitution, to say that the fact that a person follows a certain
oocupation is of itself conclusive evidence tha.t he lacks the aualificatione of a
good reputation.
·

One thing which may not properly have a place in this Ad?ress, BI!d which yet
ie so striking that I cannot forbear making "?ention of _it as illu~tre;tml!'. the firm
foundation of our Order, and the Jove which its members bear to it, is this : . Du~­
ing the past two years, poReibly the tierceet political struggle ever known m this
State has been carried on amongst our people. So heated has this struggle been,
and so high have men's passions run, that friendships of a lifetime· have been
broken up. The relations between churches and pastors have been ~e.stroyed,_and .
· even family circles have been broken up by the fierce heat of political pase10~ ;
ret through it all no note of discord bas entered any Masonic Lodge. No Masonic
Lodge in Alabama bas been affected by this fierce struggle, and this should be a
monument to the Masonic Lodges of Alabama.
They have met in the times of the greatest trial within their Lodges BB friends
and as brethren, and nothing outside the doors of the Lodge room has affected
this beautiful Masonic feeling. It hBB created within my breBBt a sentiment of
added reverence and love for the Craft, and I feel sure that a house builded on ~o
firm a foundation, and able to withstand the shocks of the past two years, will
never be shaken. In the past year,-too, we have been greatly blessed in the.~ t~e
officers and members of this Grand Lodge have been all spared to meet aga1.n m
this assembly. The destroying an~el has pBBeed us by and allowed ua agam to
meet together to consult and advise with each other ae to the beet interests of
Masonry in Alabama.

The Report on Correspondence is presented by Bro. PALMER J. PILLANS (veteran). He gives a review of the doings of fifty-six Grand Masonic Bodies-full of
practical information and wise comment. In noticing Arkansas, be quotes Bro.
SAM H. DAVIDSON, and endorses his opinions in opposition to a Cipher Ritual in
its many forms, and thinks the Mason or Lodge using the pesky thing should be
"stood up;" but Bro. PILLANS says we are constantly informed "that we are old
fogy, behind the age, and that Masonry is a progressive science," etc. Under the
awful threat of "you're another," we side with the protestants DAVIDSON and
l'ILLANS. The loose methods adopted in the dissemination of the cipher is the
:first objection ; the second and greatest is the much more careless methods of the
individual recipient. We have heard of their being worn out from carrying in the
side pocket, and then the copies that are made for convenience-oh, Lord I
Under California, Bro. PJLLANB notices the illnee~ of Grand Master GRITMAN.
He quotes, in full, Bro. BELOHER'B report on the communication·of Grand Master
ARNOLD, of Pennsylvania, announcing hie withdrawal of the Representative of the
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania near the Grand Lodge of California; comment•
favorably upon the acts of our Boards of Relief. He notes the pro1?r~ee in the
matter of the Home, and says " this looks well, and with our brethren of California, in matters of charity, there is no Ruch word known to.them as fail."
In his notice of Connecticut, he closes with these words, writing of Bro. J OBEPH
R. WHEELER: ' 1 We regretfully leave him (most probably we will meet no more
here). Alas I how true your words, Bro. PlLLANS, 'we shall meet Bro. WHEELER
no more here.' "
Under Illinois, Bro. l'JLLANS indulges in a few words which strike the average
mind as peculiarly truthful and pertinent, and the application may be made to the
doings of most any of o'ur Grand Bodies. We quote:-

Could the Masone of Alabama have received a greater compliment! The
Grand Master "set his face firmly ." against the ltl'Bnting of dispensations to confer
degrees out of time. A number of interesting decisions were rendered, but being
controlled by the local law are not important in other jurisdictions. We quote the
following, however, BB an exception, as founded on good law under any code claiming to be Masonic:I received a letter in which it was stated that an applicant for affiliati!'n had
been blackballed, and BB the letter stated, for no good cause, and it was stated
that the members of the Lodge were of opinion that they knew who bad <:BBt the
black ball, and desired to know whether or not tht>y could not proceed agamst the
member:
I replied : The ballot in a -Masonic Lodge ie strictly a secret ballot. No member has a right to inCJ.uire or to be informed how any other member h!!-8 voted on
any application for mitiation or affiliation ; in fact it is not proper for a memb~r
himself casting a blackball to state in open Lodge that he has done so, or his
reasons for so doing. No man, however pure, or good, or desirable as a member,
bas a right to become a member of a Masonic Lodge without the unanimous consent of every member present when his application comes up, freely expressed. by
the secret result of the ballot. It is needless to say that your Lodge has no nght
to inquire who cast a black ball and why it was cast.
And here is another good common sense decision by the Committee on Jurispmdence, to whom the subject had been referred:We are a11ked if the fact that a man is engaged in the business of selling
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors is of itself a ~ound for rejecting the applicant.
There was a ruling of this Grand Body in 1855 to that effect, but in 1866 it was de.cirled that as the business of retailing ardent spirits was licensed by the State,
that it wBB not in itself inconsistent with Masonry to follow such a business. We
do not think that it is within the power of this Grand Lodge to impose any other
qualifications upon the candidate for degrees than those imposed by Section 7,
Article VI, of the Constitution. By that section a man is required to be a man,
free-born, of the age of twenty-one years or upwards, of good reputation !'-nd of
suffioient natural intellectual endowment, and with means of honest subsistence
and free from certain corporeal deformity. It is for each member of a Lodge to
satisfy his conscience as to whether a candidate possesses these qualifications, and
we do not think that it is within the power of this Grand Lodge, without an

. The Jurisprudence Committee _commend him, the Grand Master, for hie position; but why commendation should have been awarded him for doi.ng ezactly a.a he
ia required tt• do is not <J,Uite clear to us, for fools are not wanted in the Fraternity,
but are expressly prohibited.

l

Under Maine, Bro. PILLANB quotes approvingly these "words of wisdom"
from our Dean in Masonry, Bro. DRUMMOND. The subject of the remarks was
the late anti-saloon Masonic legislation in several jurisdictions. Bro. DRUMMOND
writes:That depends. When the use of anything becomes a public'curse/the general
weal demands that its Ul.'e be prohibited, although there may be many who do not
abuse it; human laws must have reference to the mas•, even if they limit the
rights of the few. So, if evil practices exist among Masone to such tan extent as
to di~race Masonry, it is no innovation to enact laws to prohibit those practices.
It is mherent in Freemasonry to preserve itself, and the exercise of this power,
when necessary, is no innovation, but rather the performance of a duty enjoined
by its fundamental principles.
To which Bro. PILLANS responds :To which we agree, but are not ready to concede that such conditions ~xist.
The following condensed statement represents the condition of Masonry in the
jurisdiction of Alabama:-

76

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

Number of Lodges represenW .................. . .................. ,291
Number of members reported .... . . . ....... . ............. ····.·· .10,807
Amount of dues .............. . ........... . . . .... .. .... . ..... $5,128 35
Number of Lodges that made returns . .. ... . . . . ............. · · .. · · · .360
Number of Lodges that paid dues... . ... . . . . .. ........... . .. •······ .339
N umher of Lodges chartered 1894. . .... .. ....... , .... . .... · · · · · · · · · · · 2
Number of Dormant Lodges revived in 1894 .. .. ... . ..... . .. ... .... · · · .6
Number of Lodges on roll at close of session of Grand Lodge 1894 .. .. 391
Number of Ministers of Gospel. ..... .. .............. . . . ........ 727
Bro. WM. Y. TrTOOMB, the Repreaentative of the Grand Lodge of California
nP.ar the Graud Lodge of Alabama, was not present at this Communication.
M. ·. W. •. GEO. PAUL HARRISON was elected Grand Master; R. ·. W. ·• H. CLAY
ARMSTRONG was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Bro. p ALMER .J. PILLANS, Belknap, Correspondent.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Montgomery on
first Tuesday in December, 1895.
ARIZONA.

The Grand Lodge of Arizona held its thirteenth Annual Communication in the
city of Pbrenix November 13, 1894,-tbe M. ·. w. ·. RIOKMJCR NICKELS FREDER·
ICKB, Deputy Grand Master, the V. ·. W. ·. GEORGE J AMEB RosKRUGE, Grand
Secretary. Nine Lodges were represented. Five Paet Grand Masters and the
Representatives of twelve sister Grand J uriRdictions were present.
M.-. W.·. Bro. H. M. ORAHOOD and M.·. W.·. Bro. En. C. PARMELEE, Past
Grand Masters of the Grand Lodge of Colorado, were introduced, received with
the Grand Honors, and welcomed by the Grand Master.
Death having claimed from the Gra.n d Lodge of Arizona their beloved Grand
Master, the Grand Lodge assembled in the citv of Pbrenix Sunday, July 15th, to
accompany his remains to the place of interment and perform the last sad rites
over the remains of their beloved brother, the M. ·. W. ·. DAYTON A. RKED, Grand
Master of Mason~ in Arizona. A procession was formed, under the escort of
Phr:tnia Commande.ry, No. 3, of Knights Templar, the remains were accompanied
to the grave and deposited with the final ceremonies of the Order. After an
Address by the Deputy Grand Master the Grand Lodge closed.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Annual Session and the Deputy Grand Master, a.s 1MJting Grand Master, delivered the Annual Addres~. After a welcome to
the brethren to this their thirteenth Annual Communfoation, the Deputy Grand
Master sorrowfully alluded to the death of the late Grand Master, whom all had
hoped to meet at this Annual Assembly, clothed in his usual health and strength;
but God bad ordained otherwise. He had passed within the vails and been laid
to rest by the bands of sorrowful brethren in whose memories his faithful service
would be treasured up and his good deeds rememliered.
The acting Grand Master reparted bis official acts, which, from ·prevailing circumstances, were very light. But few visitations had been made and but little
business transacted.
The uniform rules proposed bv the Grand Lodge of Mississippi were received
and referred.
The Grand Lodge
lle3olved That in case of the suicide of a Master Mason in good standing in
this jurisdi~tion, the Master and Wardens of the Lodge to which be belonged, or
the Master and Wardens of the Lodge in whose jurisdiction ~be suic:ide W!U' co!'l·
mitted, shall determine as to bis insanity and as to the propnety of mterrmg him
with Masonic honors.

1895.]

Grand .Lodge of California.

77

A Lodge of Sorrow was convened Tuesday evening, November 13th, at which
an oration was delivered and memorial exercises held in honor of the deceased
brethren of this Grand Jurisdiction.
There is no Report on Correspondence this year.
The M. '. W. '. RJCKMRR N. FREDERICKS was elected Grand Master; the V.-. W. ••
GEORGE J. RosKRUGE was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Prescott.
ARKANSAS.

The Grand Lodge of Arkansas held its fifty-fifth Annual Communication in
the city of Little Rock November 20, 1894,-the M. •. W. ·.J.M. HARKEY, Grand
Master, R. '. W. '. FAY HEMPSTEAD, Grand Secretary. Three hundred and forty.
five Lodges were represented. Seven Past Grand Masters and thirty Representatives of sister Grand Jmisdictions, were also present. Bro. A. G. HENDERSON,
the Representative for California, was not present.
Bro. JACOB B. NEFF; Past Junior Grand Warden, repreirents the Grand Lodge
of Arkansas near the Grand Lodge of California.
After opening the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master delivered his Annual
Address. After an expression of gratitude to the Heavenly Father for preservation, he uported the death of Past Grand Lecturer Bro. D. B. WARREN, and paid
a warm and earnest tribute to his memory.
The Grand Master reported his official acts, among which many decisions of
local importance only were rendered, and some peculiar methods developed.
Some quaint questions and answers were reported, from which we quote:Queation. A member of our Lodge skipped a bail bond, ran ofi and went to
Texas, and while there attempted to draw money from 11 bank on a forged check,
under an assumed name. Can we prefer charges against him here in our Lodge
where he is a member, or will we have to prefer charges in.some Lodge in Texas?
Answer. You should prefer charges in the Lodge where be is a member, and
expel him before the matkr .gets cold. Then you can advertise him in T exas if
you choose to do so.
The Grand Master, under the bead of "Visitations," makes the following
explanation :-

I have been cordially invited to visit several Lodges and assist in laying corner
stones of churches, colleges, etc., but owing to the stringency of the times and
money matters close with me, I did not attend. I, in company with our Worthy
Grand Lecturer, visited a itood many Lodges. Bro OATHOUT is a good worker
and makes a lasting impression wherever he goes-a itenial companion to travel
with. Lodges treated us kindly and gave us plenty to eat, which is ..1ways acce_11table to me. I have assisted in conferring many degrees during the ]ear. The
brethren of all the Lodges I have visited have treated me with fove an re9pect.,
The debt upon the Temple seems to be causing the brethren of Arktmsas much
trouble and annoyance, The Grand Master says :'
Brethren of the Grand Lodge, I must say to you I have worked every conceivable way to fix a plan whereby we could pay the debt on this Temple, and cannot
cipher out any plan except to adopt the amendment to the Constitution that is
now before the Grand Lodge or vote down the mileage and per diem, and I do
h.ope and pray that the amendment will be adopted by this Grand L od_ge. While
some of our hrethren may think that there has been money wasted m building
this Temple, I can aBBure you that there's been none wasted since the Temple has
been built, and I want to ask you, who compose the Grand Loqge? Why, the
Grand Officers and the Worshipful Master•, ~enior and Junior Wardens of the
several subordinate Lodges, compose the Grand Lodge. So it is your Temple, and
you justly owe the debt; Are you going to pay it? I am bound to believe that

78

Proceedings of the

(Oct. 9,

there are enough representatives here who will. ea~ yes. Let us adopt the amendment which will raise money enough. Give it 1ame to pay the debt. I hope the
Maeo'ns of the State will never repudiate a just debt.
Notwithstanding this appeal of the Grand Ma.ster the constitutional amend·
ment mentioned bv him wa.e refused adoption by a decisive vote.
The Committee on Memorials of the Dead submitted an eloquent report,
devoted to the remembrance of the useful Iivee of the many eminent and illustrious
brethren who have passed to the "great beyond " during the year. Th.ey reported
the lose by Tennessee of GEOBGB C. CoNNOB and JOHN FBIZZ.ELL, illustrious Past
Grand Masters. Georgia mourns tile death of Grand Master Jo.RN S. DAVIDSON;
MiesiBSippi of RoBERT B. BRANNIN, Gra.nd Lecturer; Colorado of J. M. CHIVING·
TON, Past Grand Master; Arizona of DAY'rON A. REED, Grand Master; Utah of
RoBERT L. SCANNELL, Deputy Grand Master; Maine of FREDERICK Fox, Grand
. Treasurer; and Connecticut of J OSBPH K. WHBBLKR, their long time Grand Secretary. These, and many other of their own kindred and brethren, they mentioned with affectionate regret, commending our dead brethren to the care and
protection of the Almighty Father.
.
Eighteen District Deputy Grand Masters were appointed.
A Special Communication was held at Forrest City on the twentieth day of
August, 1894, for the purpose of pla.cing the corner.atone of the Forrest City
Public School building with the usual ceremonies.
Arka.n88d has enrolled 438 chartered Lodges, with five under dispensation.
There is no Report on Correspondence.
The M.·. W. ·.H.P. RICHMOND was elected Grand Master; the R. ', W.·. FAY
fuMPbTBAD was re-elected Grand Secretary,
Bro. SAM H. DAVIDSON, Evening Shade, ~harp County, Correspondent.

BRITISH COLUMBIA.
The M. •. W. •. Grand Lodge of British Columbia held its twenty-third Annual
Communication in the city of New Weetminieter, Canada, June 21, 1894,M. ·• W. ·. SIBREE CLARK, Grand Master; R. ·• W. '. W. J. QUINLAN, Grand Secretary. Owing to the prevailing floods the Grand Master was unable to be present.
Thirteen cha.rtered Lodgee were represented, and the Representatives of fourteen
sister Grand Lodges were present. Two Pas~ Grand Masters and three Paet
Grand Wardens answered to roll call.
The Grand Lodge was opened with solemn prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the
·
Deputy Grand Master presiding.
A Special Communication was held in the city of Nanaimo, July 18, 1893, the
Grand Master presiding.
The bueineae of the communication was to la.y, with Masonic honors, the
corner stone of St. Andrew's Presbyterian church, of the city of N~naimo, which
ceremony was performed in accordance with ancient custom and with entire satisfaction to the Grand Lodge, the Craft and the public. Letters of regret, at their
inability to attend the session, were received from the Grand Master and other
members of the Grand Lodge.
The Address of the Grand Master was read by the Deputy Grand Master, in
which he expreesed hie regreh a.t not being able to join the brethren at their
annual meeting. In brief, he reported his official a.cts; hie visitations had been
cut short by the unusual prevailing high waters, and he could but poeseBB hie soul
in patience and wait for the floods to subside.

1895.]

Gran~ Lodge of Oalifornia.

79

He made feeling mention of the brethren who had passed from among them to
join the unnumbered throng, and commended them to the care of the Supreme
Grand Master above. He made an eloquent reference to the death of that briJ.
liant Masonic light, M. ·. W. ·.JOHNS. DAVIDSON, Grand Master of Georgia, and
commended him as a bright example to the brotherhood.
Reports from the Deputy Grand Master and District Deputies were read and
.
referred.
British Columbia has seventeen chartered Lodges, with a membership of 1076
Master Masone.
~ delegation from the Grand Lodiro of Manitoba, consisting of the Grand
Junior Warden, the Grand Secretary and six brethren, were admitted and received with the·" Grand Honors" and welcomed by the Grand Master to eeate in
the Grand East.
A_t t.he evening session the Grand Lodge formed in prooeeaion under charge of
the G~nd M~•hal and proceeded to the Presbyterian Chureh, where they listened
to an impressive sermon by R . ·• W. ·• Bro. E. D. McLAREN, when the Grand
L~dge ret.urn:~ to the Temple and reeume<i business. The Grand Lodge enter.
tamed their VlBltors from Manitoba at a banquet after the close of the eeBBion.
The R . ·. W. ·. MARK BATES is the Representative of California near the Grand
.British Columbia, and W. ·.AA.RON CH.ALFANT, of Punta Arenos, repreLodge
sents Bntish Columbia near the Grand Lodge of California.
P~t Grand Master and Chairman of Correspondence, Bro. MARCUS WOLFE,
sub.mite the Report of that Committee. The report is full, and is an interesting
review of the world's Masonic legislation to date, being a concise history of the
doings of fifty.four Grand Bodies.
In hie review of California, Bro. WOLFE notes the sickness of M. ·• w. ·.Bro.'
GRITMAN, our Grand Master, who passed to eternal rest in.the succeeding spring.
He commends the Report of Bro. ANDERSON on Correspondence, and admires the
Address of the Grand Orator, Bro. EUGBNK DEUPREY.
. Under Colorado, Bro. WOLFE quotes freely from the very excellent and instructive report of Bro. GBEBNLBAF. Bro. W. is enthusiastic, det1ignatee Bro. GREENLEAF a "p~ince of writers," a Masonic scholar of high degree, and a lover of
the Fraternity-to all of which we three agree, Bro. WOLFK. There is a world of
wiedou_i in the quotations from Bro. DRUMMOND'S reP<>rt of 1870, in re, the two
Masonic systems of government, and then these few words of meaning, ought to
cause t~e advocates of perpetual jurisdiction to stop and think a little.. "When
we consider that the Masone of the United States do not constitute a majority of
the world, we should not attempt to dictate in matters of this character but
'
rather accept the well recognized principles of the rest of the fathers. "
Under Maine he pays this well desei:ved compliment to our great jurist, Past
Gr~nd Master JOSIAH H. DRUMMOND. It is needleae to sound his praises, for
he is well known whenever Masonry exists."
· M. '. W. ·• R. B. McMIOKING was "elected Grand Master; R. '. W. ·. W. J.
QUINLAN was re-elected Grand Secretary. Committee on Correspondence, M. ·• W. ·.
MARCUS WOLFE, Nanaimo, B. C.

o!

COLORADO.
'l'he Gra.nd Lodge of Colorado held its thirty.fourth An~ual Communication in
t~e city of Denver September 18th and 19th, 1894,-the M. •• W. •, Jll:l'HRO C. SANl.l'OBD, Grand Master; ll. •. W. ·. Ev. C. PARllfELEX, Gra.nd Secretary. Eighty-two
chartered Lodges were represented. Sixteen Past Grand Masters, with the Rep.

80

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

including Bro.
reeentati vee of forty-two sister Grand Jurisdict ions, were present,
·
JAMES H. PEABODY, Represen tative .of Californi a.
by the Grand
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer
Chaplain .
Gr~nd J urieAfter extendin g a cordial welcome to the repreeen tati vee of sister
to the great
dictionli, the Grand Master delivered hie Annual Address. He alluded
congratu lated the
financial dPpreeeion of the business industry of the country, and
ty had not only
brethren of Colorado that, under such conditions, the Fraterni
d, had made subheld its own in its organizat ions, but, as the etatietic8 evidence
:stantial progress. He records this pleasant incident in life's journey
been most cordial.
Our relations with sister jurisdicti ons during the year have
many y,ears have exNothing has occurred to mar the fraternal feelings which formany
commun ications
isted between this and other Grand Lodges. Although
matters, none
have passed between myself and other Grand Masters upon Masonic
M . '. W. ·:JOHN E.
gave me more pleasure than one which waa received from
installati on, and for
JONES, Grand Master of Masone in Nevada, e09n after. my
Being intimate friends
which I may be pardoned in making a personal reference Bro.
to be made
and socially related, I sought, by the recomme ndation of theJONES
door of Eureka
a Mason, and through hie recomme ndation I knocked at after
which he, with
Lodge No. 16, of Nevada, for admissio n, July 30, 1878;
which have been of great
others, gave me such instructio n• as were necessary, and
those rough and
benefit to we in years pa.at. Together , in 1880, we passed over
Masonry . Leaving
rugged roads, step by step, to the so-called higher degrees in
ties, one
that jurisdicti on a few days after, and severing those social and fraternal
congratu latory
may imagine the feelings of pleasure upon receiving and sending
s
courtesie
fraternal
othE1r
communi cations fifteen years after, and extendin g to each
due from one Grand Lodge to another.
its purposes
The Grand Master approves of the liepresen tative system when
a factor
office
the
make
to
desire
a
and
service
faithful
by
out
are honestly carried
Grand Lodges,
in the cultivatio n a~d preservat ion of friendly relations between
although separated by impractic able means of communi cation.
elect brethren
The Grand Master had several applicati ons for dispensat ions " to
l proof
additiona
an
"
Warden,
as
served
ly
previous
not
to the Mastersh ip who had
code, which proof the wisdom which guided the construc tion of the Californi a
vides:be eligible to
None but members in good standing , whose dues are paid, shall
in the Lodge.
vote at an election ; and every voter shall be eligible to any office
than local
Under the head of decisions, we note two that, perhaps, are of more
importan ce. The first is :communi caNo. 16. "St. John's Day," Decembe r 27, is a stated or regular
business can be
tion of a Lodge, whether the By-Laws so etate 'or not, and any
transacte d, except such as is obliged to lie over a required time.
say:Of this decision we think the Committ ee on Jurisprud ence very properly
labor or the
St. John's Day is only a festival day of the Craft and not a day forcommuni catransacti on of LodP,;e business, unless it falls on the day for a stated
tion. We recomme nd that this decision be not approved .
Precedin g the second decision, we quote question and answer :used to defray the
No. 23. Can the fund• of a Lodge in this jurisdicti on befor
non-paym ent of
being
burial expenses of a suspende d Ma&on, the suepe1;eionances
the time of death,
at
dues, the person named being in poor financial circumst
the funeral expenses ?
leaving his family in a destitute condition and unable to pay
be uaed only
Answer : No. The fund of a Lodge ia a sacred fund, and should
would naturally
for purely Masonic purposes. The very n1<ture of the institutio n
·
prohibit going outside the Fraterni ty to tliepense its charity.

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oalijornfu.

81

The Masonic Fraterni ty is a society ha ded togefith.er f'?r ~ut~al ~nefit and
protectio n, and can in no way be consider ed!, a bene
ciary 1Dat1tut10n ID a money
sense.
:Of this decision the committe e, in the true spirit of Masonry , aay
·
·
1
th
f
expoe"t·
Deoision No. 23 may be a literal
think the memto exer~i~~ntb . ~ dw, yet ~e
here .of a Lodge should be allowed
. eir JU gment ID the bestowal of
· ·
chanty If a Lodge b
funeral ex~~ir;~~d~~~ti'ib~te to thenoes
pensee.~f a deceased ~us:e:d;aa~~:~
stated,
we believe and recomme nd that they be allowed to do so. e ctrcumeta
The Committ ee on Jurisprud ence recommended and the Grand Lodge.
0
0

nem~rV:::i~:~hi~;t:r f1~~e~ :t!1ii:r~a:iJ1 fu:~ee ;~;rii!~tht~f ~~;;fb;
a1i:.:f.j
paymg
f
a x •um ID cas • ag&IDet the best interests of Maso
1.8
n~:y; h~ ore ~he same ie
from t~ie time forbidden ; provided however• that th.18 ac
not ID any way
ton e
heretofor e ~nted.
hips
members
hfe
affect

The Grand Lodge also
·
. llfaolved, That decision No. 48 be and the same· h b
and vacated,
it be1Dg the conclusion of thia Grand Lodge that th~eeeMay8:tMaetde
may open
aeons
r
business.
transact
a Lodge and
it they ·11
. Very good in theory, hut practical ly when the three attempt
w1 cer·
tainly find "someth ing wantiug. "
tot
allowed
is
on
Our. law provides that "no Lodg~ under thia jurisdicti
rans.
th
· act hua1Dese, other than the conferrin g of degrees, with a leaa numb er an seven
members present."
·
The Committ ee on Necrolog y, Bro. LAWRENCE N • GREENLEAF• Chairman, pref th h
aen ted a report of cond o1ence and sympath y to the bereaved
Lod
~he de
hold of ~lorado for the lose of beloved brethren and recomm end!:
the sister e~~:::
of ~o~r~tng pages in their journals to memory of the dead. To
fC 1
Jur1sd1ct10na they extend the fraternal sympath y of the Grand Lod ge 0
o orado
for the lose of illustriou s brethren .
hip of
members
a
~ith
roll,
her
on
~olorado registers eighty-se ven active Lodges

o:ae·

654

th" last
A Special Communi~ation waa held on the 7th of October to perform
d
of th G
aad duty of accompa nying the remains of the fil'l't Grand 11iaster
h e ran
Lodge of Colorado to their final resting place· More than thirtY years ave passed
M C
J
since o 1 te B
ro. <?~N . HIVINGTON and hie aeROciates planted the aeed from
. ur a
baa paaaed
wh1c~ h~ grown the Vigorous Grand Lodge of Colorado. Our ·brother
ti.
to hie final rest. The Grand Lod!fe remains to guide and ID
for good,
uence,
many future generatio ns.
f
d ·
The Report on Correspo ndence is an able review of the legislati
OIDgs o
Lve
B
writer
the
by
d
submitte
is
and
ions,
Jurisdict
Grand
fifty-seven
• ro. AWBENOl: N
.
Ch ·
G
airman. It 1e accompa nied with importan t statistica l tab! 0
BEE~EAF,
u 'ted .~~
much 1Dtereat to the inquirer into the condition of Masonry in the DI
...tea
and Europe.
G
ter
M
Grand
of
illn
the
088
Under Californi a Bro. GREENLEAF notes
BJT)(AN
aa
.
t'
d
'
the t
an men 1ona it as a reason for hie lack of viaitationa which was
reason,
rue
f
.
and the illn088 resulted in the death of the Grand Maeter ID
a ew months there.
after.
d
for W"d
Home
a
He comment s upon our progress in the establish ing of
· "ad"1ct'10n, and the good work of our several Boards I0 fowean
}{ r f
Orphans of our Jun
e ie •
Bro. DEUl'BEY's oration is noticed and freely quoted.

8

6

f

82

Proceedings of the

(Oct. 9,

Bro. GREENLMF, in bis notice of Idaho, quotes from the Address of the Grand
Master, M. ·. W. ·. Bro. HATTABAUGH a abort article of truthful comment upon
the Lodge practice of the present day, at least in our jurisdiction. We do n?t a~­
sume to speak for another. The evil ie acknowledged and the only question ie
bow to correct it. Bro. HATTABAUGH eaye :In conclusion, I beg to say that I believe there is one serious defect in ~be
brotherhood of Masonry in this country, and that is the cold and formal. res~ramt
of association in the Lodge room. There seems to be too much reet~a1Dt 1ll the
real working moments of the Lod~ to call into action the beet emot10ne o! the
true Masonic spirit. "The work ID the quarry" is often too earnest. to J?0ri~nt the
cultivation of the gentler virtues of a man's social character. Mank1Dd is.given ~o
the enjoyment of social life; his best feelingR resp~md and the noblest traits of bis
character are shown when formality is thrown o,to1de. I have fl'09uently obser.ved
that J.odge meetin~ are conducted too much as a purely bus1D•BB transaction.
The designs of our 1Detitution are to make men wiser, better., more manl.y, more
brotherly and happier in all the relations of lite, and its social element is one of
the mean~ to accomplish these purposes. At such meetings theory. 1~ught t o be.put
into practice, and the high and low, rich and poor, member and vmtor, meet m a
fraternal manner that would cause each and every member to feel perfectly at
home in a Lodge-room. They should be made to feel that those around them are
brothers and friends.
·
M. ', W. '.WM. L. BusH was elected Grand Master; R . '. W. ·.ED. C. PARMELEE
was re.elected Grand Secretary.
·
Correspondent, Bro. L. N. GREENLEAF, Denver.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Denver, September 17, 1895.
CONNECTICUT.
The Grand Lodge of Connecticut held Emergent Communications at Norwich
March 27th, at Hartford September 22d, at Bridgeport September 25th, at Wallingford September 27th.
The Communication at Norwich was for the purpose of dedicating the Lodgeroom in the new Masonic Temple.
That at Hartford for the placing of the corner-stone of the new Masonic
Temple.
That at Bridgeport for the placing of the corner-stone of the new Masonic
Temp!., at Bridgeport.
And that at Wallingford was to receive the proposition of the Oneida Community in r•ference to the location of the Masonic Home.
An Emergent Communication was held in the city of Hartforil October 10,
1894, for the purpose of attending the funeral of Bro. JOSEPH K. WHBBLER, l•te
Grand Secretary. The Grand Lodge was opened and formed in proee&eion under
the escort of Wa.lhi11gton Commandery, No. 1, whence they proceeded to the residence of the deceased, received his remains, and, after religious exercises at the
church, conveyed them to Spring Grove Cemetery, where, with loving hands, tHey
were deposited with the usual ceremonies.
The one hundred and seventh Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Connecticut was held in the city of New Haven January 16, 1890,-the M. ·. W.-.
HENRY 0. WARNER, Grand Master, the R. '. W.'. JOHN H. BARLOW, Grand Secretary. One hundred and nineteen Lodges were represented. There were pr011ent
thirteen Past Grand Masters and the Representatives of thirty-two sister Grand

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

83

Jurisdictions. The Rev. BEVERLY E. WARNER, California's Representative, not
present.
A fine steel portrait of Grand Master H . 0. WARNER ornaments this volume.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Gra.nd
Chaplain.
The Grand Master delivered hie Annual Address, in which, after returning
thanks to the Supreme Ruler for the peace and prosperity enjoyed, he proceeded
to pay mournful tribute& to the' brethren who bad been called from earthly labor
during the past year. In the performance of this sad duty, he says:As we enter the Grand Lodge to-day, we sadly miss the presence of one who,
for more than a quarter of a century,_ has so ably filled the important position of
Gr!'-nd Secretary. It ie hard to realize that Bro. WHBBLER will never again greet
11!1 ID the Grand Lodge below. On the tenth day of October, at bis home in the
city of ~artford, after a long and pamful illness, bis spirit took its flight.
TurnlDg to the west we behold another vacant chair, sadly reminding ue that
another column has been broken, another life extinguished. On the first day of
November, at his home in the city of Bridgeport, Bro. MABK R. LICAVENWORTH
G~nd Senior yY'arden, received the summons sent by our Supreme Grand Maste~
which called him from labor to refreshment on high, and to everlasting rest.
The names of Past Grand Master ALVIN P. Hm11:, with others, was also
inscribed upon the death roll, and kind and loving reference made to their memo~es. The eminent dead of sister jurisdictions were also remembered, and resolutions of sympathy adopted and placed of record.
The Grand Master, in reporting hiR official acts, gives the condition of Masonry
in the jurisdiction of Connecticut as exceedingly prosperous, He had officiated at
the laying of several comer-stones and performed the ceremony of dedication and
constitution of Lodges. Visitations to nearly all the Lodges were made by the
Grand Master or hi~ District Deputies.
·
Past Grand Master JOHN H. B.11.BLOW succeeds the lamented Bro. WHBBLER as
Grand Secretary and Correspondent.
The special committee reported the following in response to the proposal for
uniform action by the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin in the matter of the disbursement of charity, and the report was adopted by the Grand Lodge:The special committee, to whom has been referred the communication of the
M.·. W.·. Grand Lodge of Wisconsin, relative to the relief of distressed Masonic
br:,ethren, respe~tfully report that while your committee are substantially in accord
with. the.committee of the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin upon the matters presented
yet m view of the fact that the following legislation already is spread up<>n th~
record of the M. •• W. •. Grand Lodge of Connecticut, see page 195 of Grand Lodge
records 1894, Sec. IX, Art. 10, to wit: "Every Mason and Lodge are bound to
afford temporary relief to a sick or distressed brother and has no legal claim for
remunerati?n. . Permament relief is, however, ~be duty of the Lodiie of which
the beneficiary is a member. A Lodge should relieve the temporary necessities of
a strange brot~er, and at once notify the Lodge of which be is a member, but cannot legally claim to rec<?ver ~on.eye ex~nded for peri;n~nent relief, without notice
to such Lodge. Masonic rehef 1e restricted to neceeeitiee not luxuries "
. Your:, committee are of the opinion that no further legislation is nec~eary upon
this subJect.
The Report on Correspondence ie presented by Bro. JOHN H. BARLOW, who is
called to the task by the mournful taking off of our beloved friend and Comp~nion, ,JoSEPH K. WHBBLER. Brother BARLOW brings to the work ripe expenence and a thorough knowledge of the mysteries.
Under Alabama Bro. BARLOW takes exception to the comments of Bro. PIL·
LANS on the "Masonic Home" question. He says :-

84

ProceedirigB of the

[Oct. 9,

We take eJ1.ception to the language used. A Masonic Home is in no sense a
poor.house, as the brother will aRCertain if he will take the trouble to read their
history in jurisdictions where they are in active work. We expect to have one in
Connecticut in a few months, which we pro)l<?se to maintain, to better care for the
disabled, the widows and the orphans, by giving them the comforts of a home.
In bis review of California he comments upon our liberal provisions for the establishing of a Home for the Masonic wards of the Pacific Coast, of the volume of
charity disbursed by our Boards of Relief, and the non·affiliate question as defined
by our Committee on Jurisprudence. Bro. EUGENE DEUPRRY'S oration receives
commendation, and the Report on Correspondence, by Bro. JAMES W. ANDERSON,
ie pronounced able and interesting.
Under Indian Territory Bro. BARLOW quotes the following from our fellow
correspondent, Bro. JOSEPH S. MUBBOW, who remarks, under the head of
Virginia, hie text being" High Masone," as follows:We have often been astonished, not to say indignant, at the ignorance and yre·
sumption of some brethren who had received degrees in the Chapter, Counci or
Commandery, here in Indian Territory, who evidently believed that they were
privileged characters in a Blue Lodge-just a little superior to the common Blue
Lodge Mason. A brother said to us some time ..go, "I am a Royal Arch Mason
and therefore I contend that I have a right to keep my hat on my bead in a Blue
Lodge." We felt like saying, "a man with no wore oense than that ought not be
a Mason at all."
Under MontanA, Bro. BARLOW writes:The Report on Correspondence is from the pen of Bro. CORNELIUS HEDGES,
whom we bad the pleasure of meeting at Topeka a few months ago, and found he
was a native of Connecticut, which makes him, though hailing from a distant jurisdiction, seem a near neighbor. He reports that the chief eucceBB of the ~asonic
Congress was the partaking of the hospitalities of the Illinois brethren.
H:&DGBS from Connecticut! Oh, no, Bro. BARLOW, you're all wrong; some
cowan has imposed upon you. The OoBN:&LIUl:l of the West-" our Melchisedeck "-is a native of the Holy Land, and the discoverer of the Eastern Star, which
you Connecticut folks refused to acknowled~e. Personally, however, we except
Bro. BARI.OW, ae, under New Hampshire, Ile writes:The Order of the Eastern Star consists entirely of Master Masone, their wives,
mothers, sisters and daughters. We are unable to discover where the committee
can find any grave apprehension in their holding meetings in Masonic halls. We
think the recom.m endation of the committee, to say th~ least, is not complimentary
to the lady friends of Freemasonry. In Connecticut WP. find them useful coworkers in the benevolent and charitable works of our time honored institution.
Under Ut&h Bro. BARLOW quotes the comments of Bro. CHRISTOPHER DIBHL
in reply to our lamented Bro. RIOH.~RD VAUX, of Pennsylvania, on the literal enforcement of the ancient landmarks. Bro. DIEHL writes :And we have another question to ask: Would Bro. VAUX have the magnificent
Temple in Philadelphia, with all its comforts and adornments, abandoned, and
have his Grand Lod11e move into a lager beer shop as they did in the days of the
"Ancients," when Dermott recorded the transactions of the Grand Lodge in an
ale h·ouse called Red Lyon. Change not the laws of the fa there, Bro. VAUX says,
but he cannot be ignorant of the fact that they have been changed and amended,
and though they ha .-e been changed the good work will continue as certain aR the
sun will rise to-morrow. Laws and customs have changed, and, ae mankind
ad vancee, must naturally change, but eternal are the true principles of Freemasonry.
.
The stand taken by Bro. VAUX reminds us of a story we read over ten years
ago. Senator Nye was invited to make a speech tn the Sunday school children in
his native town. He said : "My children, try to read works of great and gciod

Grand Lod,ge of· Oo1,ifort1i.a.

1895.)

85

men,. and try. to mo~d you~ liv~e after the noblest examples in hieto . " Then
paus1D.f• he ehpped hie hand ID hie pocket, and, drawing out a half dollar held it
up an proceeded as follows : "Do you see this piece of mone ? W eli m
J::~d ~othwhen I Das. a little child ·like one of you, this coin :~ placed in a!~
h d Y eh ~at d an~el ~ebeter, and as he gave it to me, he placed the other
an on my ea an. said: God bless you, my eon.' Well, since then I hav
been very cold eornet!mee and very ~ungry, for my childhood was one of privation:
and sorrow, but nothmg could ever mduce me to part with this tok n Wh
so oold, to feel this in my pocket would make me forget how my fi:g~rs ach:d
~hed hungry, I would, by touching this coin, see the great eyes of Webster ~mil­
mg own upon me onc.e more, the gran•ieur of hie magnificient life would swee
over my. mell!ory, and it was better to me than ·breakfast or dinner With ·mp
· "to ·1
y
eurroundmgs 1t would have been easv for rn_e to have drifted
pany but this co· h
b
.
away ID ev1 com.
hand' on
ted ID as een 11\Y ta1IBT~an, this and the memory that Webster's
t ce rd t tedon my head m b!essrn_g, and I could not struggle on until my
coun ry!Ilen e ec ,, some goo~ motives m my heart and made me a Senator of
th~ Umted Stat•s.
The audience was in tears and Mr N
·
·
whe!1 he
and retired from the
with " friend, t~e fr1e'.'d begged permission to see the balf dollar ie "'T
Senator haD;<led It to ~11!1· when, lo ! the date was 1859. And then ?e cce.
hd
0
th~J ~e ~<'.~1ved the com m cjlange from a bootblack that very morninll. !! B~;"
sa1 e, 1 was necessary to do the square thing by the children in some
',,
Thf ethry covers ~be case before the court. To teach others to hold fa.et ioai'h
1~ll~o .. ~~cf:t~'I! is ~II we\1 elo~gb; the only trouble ie, that when these 80~
1
w~ ar!l c ose Y mepected by the rays of the sun, they ueuall
y,
aye, a 1ways, bear the 1mprmt of the pre•ent generation But "it ·
is necessary to
do the square thin!_!" by the y(YIJ.n(lsters" And now Br~ V
our most fraternal salutation, and, wiih your leave; reti;e, AUX, we extend to you .

e;;J

c~1ld

finishe~

pl~tform. Pae!~;~ui'r£nfb~t~~

r

1

Con~em:icut l.eviee a per capita tax of twenty cents upon its membership.

The.~. • W • . HENRY 0. W ABNRR was re-elected Grand Master· the R • w •
JOHN H. BARLOW was re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspond,ent J~~N H_'
BARLOW, Hartford.
'
·
The next Annual Com~unication will be held in the city of Hartford on the
third Wednesday in January, 1896.

DELAWARE.

. The <?rand ~ge. of Delaware held its eighty-eighth Annual Communication
m the city of W1lmmgton, October 3, 1894,-tbe M. •. w. ·. ELDAD L. CLARKE
Grand Master, R. ·. W. ·.BENJAMIN F. BARTRAM, Grand Secretary. Twenty-on~
Lo~~ ';e~ represented and the Representatives of thirty-three sister Grand
Junedrct10ns
were
t"
fc r
. present. Bro. GEO. W . MARSHALL, of M"lf
l ord • representa. 1ve ~ o. 1forma, was not present. A portrait of the Grand MaRter ie co t · ed
m th1e volume.
n am
The. Gra,nd L?dge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
Cbaplam. lbe Grand Master delivered his Annual Address
A.fter welcoming the brethren with a fraternal greet~ he invoked God's
ble.ssmj!'. ul'.°n the Gra.nd Lodge, and urged bis brethren, by a zealous adherence
to its pnnc1ples, to mamtam the honor and glorv of its cause He w• 1 d to
rt th t th G ·
·
·
qe g a
repo . a
e nm Messenger bad spared the Grand Lodge circle; that the chain
remamed unbroken, the roll call complete ; yet, the subordinate Lodgee had not
been spared and many had been gathered in the harvest. In reverence we place
our ever~een mementoes upon the last .r esting place of onr departed brethren and
enter their names upon memorial pages, in our records, devoted to their memories
. The Gran~ M"ster reported hie official acts. His decisions being only of locai
mterest we will not quote. He reported visiting all 'the Lodge• m bis ju".isdiction
The Grand Lo~gee of New Zealand, T1111mania, and the Granil Lodge of Okla.'.
boma were recogmzed and"an'interchange of courtesies.invited.

Proceedings of the

86

[Oct. 9,

The Lodge of Instruction exemplified the third degree before the Grand Lodge,
omittin1t the lecture on account of press of business.
The Report on Correspcndence is presented by Bro. LEWIS R. J AOKSON, Grand
Chaplain and Chairman of committee. The report is a well written, "crispy"
review of tbe doings of American and Foreign Grand Lodges the style is terse
and vigorous, without surplusage or filling.
Our proceedings are favorably commented on; the Rep0rt of Bro. JAMES W.
.ANDERSON on Correspondence, and the Oration of Bro. EUGENE DEUPREY receiving special praise. He considers the Grand Lodge just in refusing the use of
Lodge funds for social purposes. He endorses the Georgia decision that only a
Master of a chartered Lodges become a Past Master upon his retiring from office.
He is enthr..siastic in his admiration of the brethren of Kentucky for their successful establishment and support of their Home for the widows and cbildren of
their deceased brethren.
Under Montana he bolds that when a Mason in good standing, clear of dues
and charges, asks to become a member, and the Lodge by ballot elects him, and
thus grants his request, the transaction is complete. His obligation binds him to
support the by-laws.
Like many other questions which will arise, Bro. JAOKSON, the necessity for
signing the by-laws depends upon the law of the Grand Lodge under which you
acquired or hold membership. For instance, the law of California, uniform code
of by-laws, Sec. 3 of Art. 4, declares that "every person raised to the degree of
'Master Mason in, or elected a member of this Lodge, shall sign the by-laws
thereof."
Under New Jersey be makes affectionate reference to the death of Bro.
VEHSLAGE, the beloved Chairman of Correspondence for that jurisdiction.
M. •. w. ·. Bro. VIRGINIUS v. HARRISON was elected Grand Master; R. ·. w."
BENJAMIN F. BARTRAM was re-elected Grand Secretary. Rev. Bro. LEWIS H.
JAOKSON, Wilmington, Chairman of Correspondence.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia held a Special Communication
for the exemplification of the work in the city of .Washington, March 28, 1894,the M. '. W. ·• HENRY S. MERRILL, Grand Master; R. '. W. ', WM. R. SINGLETON,
Grand Secretary.
Before closing the Grand Master announced the death of Bro. JAMES P.
PEARSON, Past Master of La Fayette Lodge, No. 19, anrl he also reported the
death of Bro. AMASA T. C. DODGE, Past Master of Pemalpha Lodge, No. 23, and
memorial committees were appointed.
Tbe Semi-Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge was held May 9, 1894.
Twenty-two Lodges were represented, with the Representatives of twenty-four
sister Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Lodge was opened with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The memorial committees upon the deaths of Past Masters PEARSON and
DoDGE reported.
The Special Committee to select site of new Masonic Temple reported. After
tbe usual routine business was transacted the Grand Lodge closed.
A Special Communication for the placing of the c9rner stone of the new building at the corner of Pennsylvania avenue and Fourth street, was held on the 24th
July. Procession was formed and the stone duly laid with the usual appropriate
ceremonies.

1895.J

87

Grand Lodge of Ooofornia.

A Special Communication was held for th
.
ceremonies of Past G
dT
W
e purpose of attending the funeral
·
ran
reasurer M J STE H
h .
illness August 31st Th f
· ·
P ENSON, w o died after a short
·
e unera1 was 1argely attended.
The Annual Communication f th' ·G d L
in the city,of Washington Nove:be/~ ~~~-;~~e ;r.the year 1894 was held
Grand Master R . w . W
R S
'
· · · · • HENRY S. MERRILL,
' .. ..
M. . INGLETON Grand s
t
T
'
ecre ary.
wenty-four
Lodges were represented and th
sister Grand Jurisdiction;,
ere were present the Representatives of thirty

4

'L'he Grand Lodge was opened · A 1 F
Qhaplain. The Grand Master. i rn. mp e orm, with prayer by the Grand
brethren who were with ti
' n his Address, made tender refer9nces to those
the Supreme Grand Mast~:~oo~'er!s~a;r:!:\~:i~ 7a~::aa~ s~ce be~nf summoned by

0 ~!~e ;ee::r!~e t~::e:::t:rt Pas~ ~asters of thei~ own ek~=~re:°a~dt:;e~~:~
:'~o
G
d M
y associa ions and passed within the vails Th

tr~::

:~~ ;:f:r::~n!~: !:~ ~:e:~~~~a:ar:~~:i:~:d:hcet1:1

m.an~ illus~

bre::::,
ons of
.
In the r t'
f ffi ·
r memones.
· ou me 0 o cm1 business reported b th G d M
to the brethre?
the
of
' save e recommendation m the Grand M te ' 8
l .0
Lodge for the year be
.
' ran
ecretary, to the end that the Masonic world ma be

~~~:~~i;mporta~ht
;~thout furis~icti:i: t~:te~is7~c;no~
i:r:~e~~!::;~Nth~ Gr~n~
embell~:he~ ;~~c ~:: ~::::~tt:~
~~~=:~ ~or:aa;eMi:~:r ~BE~~~~~~ and patriarchal countenance. Thanks f;om J:;~~
The Gr .. nd Lecturer repcrted th L d
·
prohibiting Lodges from meeting in ~uil~i:es m goo~ con?iti?n. .Tbe matter of
was earnestly discussed, but finally deferred
The Report on C
d
.
u
ommumcat10n.
need
d .orrespcn ence is by the veteran WILLIAM R. SINGLETON and
s no commen at1on.
under California, Bro. SINGLETON noti
th ·n
MAN; illness which resulted in his death in
GRIT;:d:uote.s our ll'tslation generally, and the report of the
. nee .m regar to the action of Grand Master ARNOLD of p
. ..
his representative from our Grand Lodge in full ' H
m
his entire approval.
·
e gives t e repcrt

ro ;~e::~~t:i:t::tgcliquors ~re ~old

w.1thdr~wrng

~~ew :~n~ess:h:~e~:t:~d ~ast~
Com~itte:~n I~:~i~~nnsylhvama,

commenting
on Bro. AN DERSON ,s· R eport on Correspondence, .Bro. SINGLETONInwrites
:-

aG:-U

1
He does not agree with us and the ver
alruost universal-that a Master Mason by,
!'r~e number of <?rand Lodgeshome irrespective of his residence Th
e <[1f t to choose h1s'own Masonic
l~eve, only one other Grand Lodge· wbich rad0 odge of California, and, we bet1me to look for deny that ri ht. b
. we .not now remember and have no
brother who may' be a life memg ! ut ~ 0 ?r ~u~gment it is all wrong to force a
ship and unitll himself in a Lod ': i1:; one 3urisdi~t 1 ?n .to surrender that member8
necessar.v for him to reside. :B!tter fa~°t~ ~j~e~ rJi'1~1cti?n where it may become
also by Virginia-of dual membership.
P
e nghsh system-as followed
We don't like dual membership, but do believe with Bro
Master Mason sbould have the right to elect his own M
. .hSINGLETON that a

:~ ~:; a.s ih~ retains membership "•omewhere" he cann~s~:1;ha~~~· wi:en:;:
y ' ts ~rue,_ we prefer home to non-resident membership but th
.
en mrcumstances sometimes make it not only justifiable but a Masonic du~y.

Procee,dingB of the

88

(Oct. 9, .

Under South Dakota., BrQ. SINGLETON quotes the Committee on Jurisprudence,
who reported unfavorably upon the dispensation of the Grand Master to confer
the three degrees upon GICO. SHELDON, as "the facts in the case reported did not,
in their judgment, justify the exercise of such powers;" which waa adopted by the
Grand J,odge. Bro. SINGLE:TON adds :.
A farmer, who had hired a new boy to wait on his reapers in the field, gave
him a bucket of cider and told him to put it in the spring to keep cool. When the
cider wae wanted he told th~ boy to bring it. The hoy said "I have put it in the
spring." "Yes, I told you to do so, but bring it along." "But1" said the boy," I
but don't you
. have poured it in the spring." "You did ! Well, that's all rignt,
do it again."
Now, the Grand Master obeyed his prerogative. The c,ommittee said it was
not right and so future Grand Masters of South Dakota. will govern themselves
accordingly.

In reply to our lamented Bro. VAUX, of Pennsylvania, upon the Grand Reprentative matter, Bro. SI!'i'GLKTON writes :We do not agree with him in his statement as to the gradual movement in the
Grand Representative system. Having ma.de a thorough examination from 1820
in all the Grand Lod~e proceedinjfB of the United Stat0fl and foreign countries,
the Grand Lodge of PennRylvania, m the United States, alone made them representatives of the Grand Master, by the Ahiman Rezon of 1825.
The ConRtitution of the Grand Lodge of England also makes theru represent
the Grand Masters. In all the Grand Lodgeil they constitutionally represent the
Grand Lodge, and all of their commissions so read, and a lar~e majority of the
Grand Bodies vot1i upon their reception, and many cO'Tljirm their appointment by
-t he Grand Master, and this from a very· early date, eccording to our eicamination.
The Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia at a very early date entered into
this system, following the invitation of the Grand Lodge of New York.
Now, as to any good that has followed. Since we have been connected with
Grand Lorl~es we, like many others, have failed to see what great bene6t has been
accomplished. We have, h11wever, seen no harm ~ow out of it as yet. We believe that the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia will retain the system so
long as a majority shall continue to send and receive them. The difficulties which
have arisen in every instance grew out of the ptWIOnal dignity which it was thought
had been trenched upon; where the representative was mine. In Pennsylvania
ab oriqine. In Iowa adopted very recently.
The M. ·. W. ·• DAVID G. DIXON was elected Grand Master; the R . ·. W . ·.WM.
R. SINGLKTON was re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, WM. R. SINGLETON, 909 F street, N. W., Masonic Temple.
ENGLAND.

We have received the proceedings of the Quarterly Commonlcatioos of the Grand
Lodge of England held March 6th and June 5th, 1895. At the session of March 6th,
the R.·.
ALBllBT HASTINGS MARKHAM, Acting Grand Master; the V.·. w.·.
FB&DllRICK ADOLPHUS PHILBBICK, Grand Registrar.
After the election of oftlcers, the Board of General Purposes submitted their
report of the bneiness of Grand Lodge from February 15th. The meetings of the
Grand Lodge are held in Freemasons' Hall, London, H. R. B. the Prjnce of Wales
being Grand Master, having been annually re elected to that office for the last
twenty-two years.
The M.-. W.'. Grand Master, ALBRRT EDWARD, re-appointed the Earl of Latham
Provincial Grand Master.
At the session of Jone 5th, the B.·. W.'. WILLIAM WITHRR BBA11ST0N presided as
Acting Grand Master.
The Board of General Purposes reported the transactions and bosioell<l of Grand
Lodge from March 6th.

w...

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

89

The R.·. W.·. Grand Master stated, before closing Grand Lodge, th9.t he wonld
receive the report of the Scrutineers and the resnlt of the election of the Board of
·
General Purposes in the Grand Master's room;
The Grand Lodge was closed,in form and with solemn prayer.
The R.·. W.·. Acting Grand Master proceeded to his room, attended by the Acting
Deputy Grand Master and other Grand Officers, where the Scrutineers banded in a
signed paper o( the result of the hallo', when the folluwing brethren were declared
daly elected members of the B•1ard of General Parposus and of the t::olonial Board
·
for the ensoing year :THE BOARD OF GENERAL PURP08EB.
v. ·. W.·. Bro. RICHARD LOVRLAND LOVELAND, Presitlent.
R.·. W.·. l:lro. Sir Ar.BERT W. Wooos, K. C. M. H., C. B., Harter.
R. •. W.·. Bro. Sir JOHN Ito MoNCKTO'll.
·
v... W;•. Bro. FREDEBICK A. PHILBRICK, Q. c.
V.·. W.·. Bro. RICHARD Ev111.
V.·. W.·. Rro. THOMAS T ..RUCK'lllLL, Q. r .. M. P.
V. •. W. •. Bro. THOMAS FENN.
W.·. Bro. RoB~BT GBEY.
W.•. Bro. FBANK R10HABDSON.
Rro. RALPH CLUTTO'll.
W.·, Bro. Sir GEORGE l>AVID HARRIS.

v...

w.·.

The Orand Lodge of England ha• more than two thou•and subordinates throoghoot
the world, and an onknown membership. It has nn income from investments of abont
$130,000 a year.
FLORIDA.
Special Communications of this Grang Lodge were held in June and November,
1894, for the dedication of Masonic halls.
The Grand Lodge of Florida held its sixty-sixth Annu .1 Communication in the
City of Jacksonville,. January 15, 1895,-the M. •. W. ·.WILLIAM IfoRSYTR BYNUM,
Grand Master, the'R. •. W. ·. ALBERT J. RUSSELL, Grand Secretary. One hundred
and thirty-two Lodges were represented, There were present eight Past Urand
Masters and the Representatives of forty sister Grand Jurisdiction•. Past Grand
Master H. W . LONG, California's Representative, wa• present.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address, in which he reports the roll
of Florida at one hundre<l and forty-three chartered Lodges, and adds, they are
all in good working condition. The Grand Master issued dispensations for the
formation of eight new Lodges; he also issued sixty-six special dispensations for
divers and sundry,purposes. He reports a number of decisions of local importance,
being governed by tht' local law relating thereto.
In his reference to the fraternal dead, the Grand ·Master pays affectionate tribute to Past Grand Secretary, Brother HuoR A. CORLEY, for ten 1coneecutive years
the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Florida.
The Committee on Meruorials submitted the following, which was adopted as
the sense. of the Grand Lodge:- ·
Y 011r Committee on Memorials, having had the same under consideration,
·
would respectfully submit the following report:
We find that the solemn notes that betoken the rending of the " silver chords
of life," and the c1is•olutions of earthen tabernacles, have alarmed our outer doors
anrl rnng out from· Lodges draped in mourning the sad intelligence of the invasion
of death and the loss of loved ones from ou r mystic circle. With sadness we
chronicle the death of our illustrious brother, HUGH A. CoRLRY, who~e exemplary
life as ll• Mason was spotless, pure, and eminently w..rthy of commendation. In
his death, one of the pnr0t1t, best and brightest linkA of our fraternity has been

90

Proceedings of the

(Oct. 9,

severed, and this Grand Lodge sustains the loss of a zealous, energetic and faithful
servant. He faithfully served the Grand Lodge for ten yaal'I! (from 1859 to 1868,
inclusive) as Grand Secretary.
In our Grand Master's .AddreSB we find that he with tendernPBB mentions lo88es
sustained by our sister Grand Lodges. Geor11ia has keenly felt the icy· touch of
death, and m"urns the 1088 of her Granrl Master, Most Wol'l!hipful JOHN S.
DAVIDSON, who for many ye&I'I! in succession held the key of the hearts nf his
Ma.sonic brethren in Georgia as their illustrions and distinguished (irand Master.
To them we would offer our fraternal condolence; and as the genlbs of Masonry
cannot forget her fraternal dead, who have been garnered WI jewels in the Grand
Temple above, where all is life, light and love, we recommend that a page in our
records be inscribed sacred to the memory of our fraternal dead. R est to their
souls, peace to their ashes, and perpetual honor to th•ir names.
The Grand Lodge decided that the Grand Secretary, Grand Treasurer and
Grand Chaplain, having been re-elected, inshllation was unnece88ary. .All of
which is not good law in Calfornia.
The Grand Orator, Re.-ereud Brother R. H . WELLER, delivered an eloquent
and impre88ive addreBB upon the leading characteristics of Freemasonry. .·
Bro. ALBERT J. RUSSELL presented the Report on Foreign Corresp0ndence.
He says he has noticed, in reviewing the proceedings of sister Grand Lodges,
remarks of this nature: "No Report on Foreign Correspondence," "Why is this
thus?" etc. Bro. RUSSELL gives the probable reason when he intimates that the
energi•s of the urethren have heen concentrated in the one great iclea of building
for themselves a Temple-"a permanent nbiding place"-but in our opinion it was
unneceBBary for him to belittle the aule papers put forth by the correspondents of
sister jurisdictions. He says he doesn't like the word "foreign." Neither do we,
Bro. RusSELL, and all we have to do is to drop it; but, as Bro. RussELL says, he
"has been loth to enter upon a work for which he had but little sympathy, and
which he felt was productive of more evil than good"- and so says the correspondent of Florida. Shades of DWIGHT C. DAWKINS, have patience with us.
M. '. W. ', ,TAMES W, BOYD was elected Grand Matiter; "R. ·• W. •. .ALBERT J.
RussELL was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the City of Jacksonville o~
the third Tuesday in January, 1896.
GEORGIA.

The Grand Lodge of Georgia held its one hundred and eighth .Annual Communication in the City of Macon, October 30, 1894,-the R. ·. W. ·. JOHN P . SHANNON,
Deputy Grand Master, presiding, the R. ·. W.·. ANDREW M. WoLIBIN, Grand Secretary. Three hundred and ninety-eight Lodges were represented, out of three
hundred and ninety-nine on the roll-a splendid representative body. 'l.'here were
present one Past Grand Master, five Past Deputy Grand Masters, and the Representatives of sixty-two sister Grand Jnrisdictions. Georgia has a membership of
16,235 Master Masons.
A fine steel portrait of Grand Master JOHN P. SHANNON ornaments this
volume.
The Grand Lodge was opened with prayer by the Grand Chaplain. The Grand
Master opened his Annual Addre88 with the following tribute to the dead Grand
Master, JOHN s. DAVIDSON:
My Brethren: On Sunday afternoon, March 11, 1894, the ·wires brought tbe
sad news of the death of our beloved Grand Master. Thou11:h not wholly unexpected, for I knew of the fatal malady that cut short his brilliant career and deprived M&l!Onry of its brightest light, yet I could not realize that he who had
safely guided the Ma.sonic ship ovll!' the stormy waves and acro88 the breakers that

1895.]

Grand Lo,J,ge of California.

91

roared around it, was no longer at the helm. F or more than ten yea.I'!!, in common
with all the Craft in Georgia, I had known that " all was well," for our adored
chief was in the forefrontl...and upon his wisdom, courage and devotion the Craft
could confidently rely. The " great light" placed upon a lofty height burned
bright in the East, driving away darkness and doubt, and was seen and respected
by Masons everywhere. To learn that this chief was dead, tbis blazing star
extinguished, pa88ed beyond my powers of belief, but all this, and more than
words can exprl'ss, was conveyed in the meSBage, " John S • .Da?Ji,daon ill tkad."
From out the darkness into which I was plunged came the thought that this
untimely death ca•t upon me the responsibilit.y of Masonry in thia jurisdiction.
There was a natural shrinking from so 1Ireat a burden and so 1"f9po11sible a position,
for to hold the reins of command over four hundred Lod~es and seventeen thousand Masons requires the best energies and the best brain of the best man in all
the State; while to assume charge of the Craft, just following such a Mason and
such a man as was JOHN S. DAVIDSON, was a task herculean and appalling.
.ASBurances from all over the State that I would have the support of my brethren
were soon received, and, with the determination to do all that man could to sustain the honor and dignity of the high office so sadly and suddenly cast upon me,
and remembering that my lahors would be lightened by the charity of my brethren, and, more than all, recalling that the designs upon the trestle-board had
been drawn by a hand which made duty plain, I took up the work our beloved
Grand Master laid down when he obe.ved the summons to the Grand Lodge a.hove.
Conscious of my own inexperience, but rleterminecl to do my best, on March 11,
1894, by virtue of my p •Rition s.a D eputy Grand Master, I ~ssumed the onerous
duties and high responsihility of .Acting Grand Master, and since that time I have
devoted to the position all my energies and powers of body, mind and heart.
During the past year dispensations were issued for the formation of eleven new
Lodges.
From the following decision of Grand Master DAVIDSON it will be seen that
Cerneauism is without honor or profit in Georgia :A man who had heretofore received any of the degrees of Cerneau Masonry cannot be made a member of any subordinate Lodge of this State, unless he is healed
of this infirmity by proper petition to the Grand Lodge. (This decision being
based on the report of the Com mittee on Cerneauism, made to the Grand Lodge,
and found in Proceedings of 1889, p. 53.)
Seventy-two decisions are reported by the Acting Grand Master, t wenty-seven
having been rendered by Grand Master DAVIDSON pr10r to his death. The following, by the Acting Grand Master, is in the line of sound doctrine, and cannot too
often be "emphasized : "Ne~ther. the W orshipful Master nor any member has the right to q uestion the
ballot 1ll any way or comment on the result of the ballot. The Worshipful Master
must declare the result, and there the matter ends. He is not permitted to say
any more about it, or to in any way inquire by whom any ballot was cast, by hint,
comment or innuendo. It is the privilege of every Mason to cast his ballot in
secrecy. It is forever secret. It may perhaps seem unnecessary to have announced
this decision, but the matter of inquiry into the nature of a ballot has come before
me in so many different shapes that I have deemed it best to emphasize this
decision.

The Grand Master reports Georgia at peace with the rest of the Masonic
world. He comments favorably upon the uniform rules proposed by Mississippi,
and asks their reference to the Committee on Jurisprudence.. He also presents,
with favor, the proposition of the Grand Lodge of Colorado for the proper memorial observance of the anniversary of the death of the Wor8hipful Brother GEORGE
WASHINGTON.
He also• pays a fervent and sympathetic tribute to the dead Grand Master of
Arizona, Brother DAYTON ALONZO REED, and joins in the sorrowfut' manifestations
of the brethren of Connecticut upon the death of their beloved Graod Secretary,

92

Procee<lings of the

[Oct. 9,

the veteran JOSEPH K. WHEELKR, and with the Grand Lodge of Utah in the lose
of their eminent Deputy Grand Master, the R. ·. W. ·. L&& 8aANNKLL.
Referring to local matters, the Grand M.llster reports the following case of
renunciation and repentance, which we quote for the information of a chosen few
in our own jurisdiction :-

Mr. D. 0. GROFF, who claims to have been made a Master Mason in the State
of Kentucky, in which tltate he nlso recehed the Cerneau De!(re.is, applied to a
LodgP. of Free and Accepted Masons in Savannah, Ga., for affiliation. Mr. GROFF
renounced Cerneau Masonry, and is anxious to return to the true Masonic fnith.
He also applied for ~be A. A. and S. Degrees, and the question of his eligibility
was referred to the Grand Commander for the Southern J ur1sdiction. His decision
was that Mr. GROFF, under the laws of the Grand Loclge of Georgia, was not a
Mason in go..d standing, and therefore his petition could not be entertained, and
recommended him to first obtain remission of his sins, and that the bodiPs of
Scottish Masonry must conform to and abide by the laws and edicts of the Grand
Lodge of MR.Bone within the juriediction of which they are located. Tne petition
for affiliation with the Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons was postponed and
the corresponrlence referred to the Acting Grand Master. In consideration of all
the facts, I directed that Mr. GROFF, if he desired so to do, could apply to the
Grand Lodge of Georgia for forgiveness of the great sin he h~d committed, accompanying the petition with a renunciation of Cernp.auism, and a promise of future
obedience to true and lawful Masonry. Thie petition will, I presume, be before
this Grand Body. The reasons prompting such advice were derived from the able
report on Cerneauism made by our Brother Lon;:, and found in the proceedings of
1889, pBge 53, and also a decision, No. 23, rendered by our late Grand Master, and
reyorted to the present C"mmunication. While we cannot countenance Cern~au
Masonry, still one who, after going astray sees the error of his ways and desires
to re-enter the true fold, should not be denied the benetit of the doctrine of
repentance. I lay before the Grand Lodge the correspondence upon this subject,
and especially acknowledge the true fraternal spirit evidence<l by the letters of
Lieutenant Grand Commander THOMAS H. CASWKLL, accompanying and forming
part of this correspondence.
Upon the subject of a Masonic Home, the Grand Master makes reference to
the splendid Home of New York, located at Utica, and fervently urges the brethren of Georgia to take advantage of the present opportunity to secure a tine property, located nt>ar the City of Atlanta, for that purpoRe,
The Grand Master notes the trouble and inconvenience arising from the fact
that their By-Laws require a separate ballot for each degree, and recommends
returning to the "old plan" of cine ballot for the dPgrees. We only wonder at
the delay in making this change in the large and growing jurisdiction of Georgia.
As an intimation of the love and esteem of the Masons of Georgia for their
late Grand Master, we note the following from the Address:Grand Secretary WoLIHIN has purchased for the Grand Lodge an apron and
collar for Grand Master. This was done because he and I agreeed that the proper
thing to be done with that regalia, which for ten Jong years was worn by Brother
JOHN S. DAVIDSON, W8" that it should never be placed upon another, but should
by this Grand Lodge be donated to his family. It will be prized by them, and I
earnestly hope tbot by resolutions this Grand Lodge will direct the same delivered
to bis brothers, the proper custodians of so sacred a relic, and that they may ever
preserve it as an evidence of the love which we bore our beloved Grand M&11ter,
and a link conn!'cting his memory with this Grand Lod~e.
Memorial exereises were held in memory of the late beloved and lamented
Grand Master, JOHNS. DAVIDSON, on the evening of October 30, under the direction of Bro. WILLIAM A. DAVIS, Chairman of the committee. A memorial service
wa~ held accompanied with solemn music and an address by Bro. WM. A. DAVIS,
Bro. JOHN SHKLDON DAVIDSON was born in Augusta, Georgia, J;ne 17, 1846
where he lived up to the time of his death.

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

93

The Grand Lodge adopted the following resolution by a rising vote:-

Resolved, By this Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Georgia, that
we honor above all others and all else, the Great Architect of the Universe, who
has 11iven to us in human form the life and character t>f so great and so good a man
as our Grand Master JOHNS. DAVIDSON; that our noble and efficient Grand Sec·
retary of this Grand Loclge be charged with the duty of having compiled and
printed in the form of a memorial volume the addresses, and all other matters appertaining to the memorial service during this Annual Communication, and that a
sufficient nnmber of copies be printed to furnish two copies to each subordinate
Lodge and as many more as may be deemed necessary ; that the same authority
be authorized to purchase and put In proper place in this Grand Lodge Temple an
elegant marble memorial tablet, suitably inscribed with record of the Masonic life
of Grand Master DAVIDSON, as well as his rleeds in behalf of this Grand Lodge.
Reaolved, Bd, That the Grand Lodge do herehy donate to the family of our
lamented and deceased Grand Master the jewel, collar and apron worn by him
during the wn years he was Grand Matter of Georgia, and that the duty o~the
presentation be performed at this session.
The following shows the progress made in seconding the Grand Master's views
in.regard to establiebing a Home:-

Resolved, That .the Grand Officers of this body and five other members of this
Grand Lodge, tn be appointed Ly the Grand Master, constitute a committee with
authority to contract for the acqubition of the Soldierd' Home property, near
Atlanta, with re'fUlations for its conduct, and report their labors to the next Com·
municaton of this Grand Lodge for its consideration and subject to its approval,
and that the committee heretofore appointeJ be discharged.
The Committee on Jurisprudence, in reporting upon the case presented by the
Grand Master of one Mr. D. 0. GROFF, made the following report, which we quote
WI information for the young brethren of California, among whom such fellows
work, regarding the status of certain peddlers of Masonic rites who have been
working this jurisdiction to the same end. The committee say:Bro. D. 0. GROFF had, like many others, been taken in by some Cerneau Body,
and was therefore thought to be inelilriLle to membership within this jurisdiction,
and the question of eligibility was referred by Bro. E. A. CUTTS, the Worshipful
Master,. to our late Grand Master DAVIDSON. From his reply, under date of
F ebruary 16, 1894, we take the following :
I have carefully considered yours of the 14th, as well as the letter of Bro. D.
O. GROFF, in reference to his connection with the Cerneau Rites of Freemasonry.
After a careful examination of the report of the Committee on Cerneauism
made to the Grand Lodge of Georgia, and found on page 53 of the proceedings of
181l9, I have reached the conclusion that I have no right to make any ruling in the
matter which will permit the applicant to becomt11 by affiliation, a member of your
'Lodge. The Grand Lodge of Geor~ia, it seems to me, is the only body that can
~ea.I the infirmity u.n~er which he suffers., If you will ~xamine this report, which
1e a very able expont10n of the whole subiect, and espec1e.Uy· tbe resolut10n adopted
in connection therewith, you will find that it provides that any Master Mason who
shall hereafter take anv of the so-called degr~s. shall be expelled. In my opinion,
it is a matter that should be presented to the Grand Lodge by petition, either of
your Lodge or of Bro. GROFF himself, asking to be healed of this Masonic
mfirmity.
From the correspondence, there appears to be no doubt of Bro. GROFF's perfect
sincerity in becoming a member of the Cerneau Rite, and I regret that I do not
feel authorizej to ·relieve him.
.
The matter was also referred to Bro. R. J'. NUNN, Inspector General in this
jurisdiction of the A. and A. S. Rite, who in turn referred the matter to Bro.
THOMAS H. CASWKLL1 Lieutenant Grand Commander, as Grand Commander ad

interim.

This reply was forwarded by Bro. A. B. SIMMONS to the Acting Grand Master,
under date of October 5th, 1894. From this reply of Bro. CASWELL there was a
question of eligibility of Bro. GROFI<' to the legitimate degrees of tbe A. and A.
S. Rite.

94

Procee.dirigs of the

[Oct. 9,

1995.]

Orand Lod,ge of California.

95

That le~itimate Scottish Masonry may be the better understood in its relation
to Symbolic Masonry, and as pertinent to the question before llll, we present the
following extr•ct from the letter of Bro. CASWELL, now at the head of the A. and
!>-· s: Rite, in the southern jurisdiction. His letter bears date, Orient of Washington, D. C., September 21, 1894. He says :
The renunciation of Mr. Groff of all connection with that "hybrid monster,
Cemeauism," and pledges for foture in that connection, are sufficient, and all that
could be asked ; and if he was in standing as a Master Mason, your Lodge of Perfection could, as suggested by you, receive his petition ; and, if elected, could
confer ~he ~· and A. S. degree, the sa.me as upon other Mastel"!!, the nuly difference being in the ballot. But under the laws of the Grand Lodge of Georgia, he is
not a Mason in goo<i standing; hence his petition cannot be entertained. He must
firat.ohta!n "r~~isaion of hie sine" from the Grand Lodge. Then we can properly
receive his petition.
At all times and under all circumstances, the bodies of Scottish Masonry mmt
"conform to and abide by the laws and edicts of the Grand Lodge" of Masons
within the Jurisdiction of which they are located. Comity and a proper regard for
our obligations require this. My ad vice to Mr. GBOFF as to the proper couroe to
proceed in. the matter (andi in my opinion, is the only one open to him) then, is :
To petition the Grand Lodge for restoration to standing and recognition as a
Master Mason; accompany that petition with a full statement of the facts of his
ca.'e and . a renunciation of the "hybrid" in language as strong as his conscience
will permit. The Grand Lodge will refer the matter to a committee, doubtle~s,
and a favorable report from that committee will relieve GROFF from the ban. At
the same time we will have committeed no error, and the Grand Lodge of Georgia
will be vindicated and its laws ui.iheld.
In conformity with the aug11estions of our late Grand MaRter DavrnsoN, and
the later.reco~mendations of Acting Commander CASWKLL, Bro. GROFF has presented his petition to this Grand Body, requesting the removal of his disabilities,
and ~resents therewith a written renunciation of " Cerneauism " and promise of
obedience to legitimate Masonry as recognized by this Grand Lodge as set forth in
its Proceedings of 1889.
Now, therefore, in view of the facts set forth in the above statement of this
case, that the disabilities of the brother may be removed, and to provide for the
relief of others who, similarly situ•ted, may come within the jurisdiction of this
Grand Lo<lge hereafter, your committ.le recommend the adoption of the following
edict:
Ruol'IJtd, That any brother who may now reside, or hereafter take up his residence, within the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, who shall have entered and
made himself of the obedience of any Cerneau body, at any time or at any place,
believing in the legitimany of the same, and who may, on learning of their clandeRtine character, deRire to renounce his allegiance thereto and ali~n himself with
legitimate Masonry, a• recoj(Dized and P.romulgated under the jurisdiction of this
Grand Lodge, he or they shall be privileged so to do, under the following regulafama and restrictions :
~at:. H~ s~al.1 p_re~ent ~ Worahipf~l Master and Wardens of the Lodfie h!1ving
territonal Jur1Sdiction, satisfactory evidence that he has been regularly initiated.
passed and raised to the Rublime degree of a Master Mason, within the body of a
just and legally constituted Lodge, duly asSPmbled.
2d. That he shall, in the presence of said Master and Wardens, renounce his
obedience to and decl8.re his determination to have no future connection with said
spurious bodies or members of auch obedience; and, furthermore, that he will
thereafter live in obedience to the oblijlations, rules, regulations, and edict of
legitimate Masonry; and, to this obedience the Worshipful Master of any Lodge,
in t~e presence of the Wardens, shall duly and truly obligate him. When the
applicant shall have conformed to these regulations he may be recognized upon his
merits, as a Mason with his rights and privileges.
'

The Report on Correspondence is presented by Bro. W. S. RAMSAY, correspondent and chairman of committee. Bro. RAMSAY offers it to the Masons of Georgia
as a "brief summary of tbe joys and sorrows, the trials and triumphs of our
widely extended brotherhood, which ought greatly to interest every Mason within
our own jurisdiction." The report is an able one and worthy the distinguished
committee.
Under California, Bro. MOODY, of the committee, notes the illness of Grand
Master GRITM.!.N and the performance of hie duties by Past· Grand Master OONKLIN. DoubtleRa Bro. MOODY has learned since that the illness of Bro. GRITMAN
resulted in his death a few months thereafter. Bro. GRITMAN'S decisions are
quoted and approved. . Bro. ANDERSON'S Report on CorreRpondence is commended, as is also the oration of Bro. EUGKNE DKUPRKY.
Bro. MUMFORD reviews the second division. He opens with a glowing eulogy
devoted to the rMmory of Georgia's dead Grand Master. He closes with these
telling words : "The hearts of the Masons of Georgia are in the grave of our Grand
Master yonder in Augu•ta, and he still lives, because he has put himself in their
hearts~ To live for others is to live forever, and thus he lived. Eternal ages cannot bury him." Beautiful words, Bro. MUMFORD.
In his review of Miaaisaippi, Bro. MUMFORD writes:-

Your commitiee do not deem any apology necessary for having presented this
case so fully, inasmuch as it is the first of the kind to which the attention of this
Grand Body has been called, and the full presentation of the same will the better
serve to enlighten the Craft upon a subject which has caueed so much fraternal
disturbance throughout the domain of American Masonry.
Past Deputy Grand Master JAMES W. TAYLOR, of Luthersville, represents the
Grand Lodge of California near the Grand Lodge of Georgia.

Bro. RAMSAY reviews the third division and clciaea the report. He pays this
deserved compliment to our lamented Brother GKORGK C. CoNNOR, of Tennessee:

1 notice that Mississippi Masonry stands firm against saloon keeping. No man
who sells liquor can have membership in a Miaaiasippi Lodge. I long to see the
day when saloon keeping shall be recognized as a Masonic offense throughout the
civilized world.
And under Missouri :The case of W. W. FROST, Worshipful Master of Seligman Ledge, charged
with and suspended hy the Grarid Master for keefing a saloon, came on, and he
was expelled from all the ril{hts and privileges o Freemasonry by a unanimous
vote of the Grand Lodge. Thia paragraph from the report of the committee is
sad; but izood reading.
In the meantime the Grand Master ha<i requested Brother WILLIAM A. WKAR,
of Pythag<Yraa Lodge, No. 383, to investigate the charges and report, which he did
on February 2'..!d, 1893, reporting the charges true. The respondent stands convicted "out of his own mouth" of one of the 11ravest of Masonic offenses, and we
sustain the action of the Grand Master, and recommend that the respondent be
expelled.
Under Pennsylvania, commenting on the evil of electicineerinl{, Bro: MUMFORD
writes:We have in Georgia tried tO discourage everything tending towards officeseeking and electinneering. Our Grand Lodge, several years ago, promptly and
severely rebuked wme brethren who had ticketR printed an<i niatributed throughout the hall just before the election. The Grand Master of Penney! vania seems
to think it right to have candidateR for "ffice in our Grand and subordinate Lodgea
and have printe<l tickets. My own opinion ·is that, if you allow these two customs,
you are sure to have electioneering .of the rankest sort. I hope never to see the
time come when the tricks of office-hunting politicians will obtain in a Lodge of
Freemasonry. Let us do all we can to keep Masonry free from tbia infiuence.

His _spirit went to God who gave it, from his home in Chattanooga, March 9,
1894. H;a work he left to the brethren he loved so well, and, being dead, he yet
speaks to them in hi~ faithful words of counsel and instruction. Though for a
decacle we have had tilts with Brother CONNOR, he often indulging in pleasantries
irresistible to his Irish nature, yet we have ever appreciated him as a Mason of

96

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

rare 'worth to)he Craft. No reports were read with more genuine pleasure by us,
and but few contained so much information. One of our brightt:st lights has been
extinguished here, but it shines with greater radiance in the Celestial Lodge.
" So star by star declines
Till all are pass.ed away,
Nor sink those stars in emptv night,
But hide themselve in heaven's own light."
From Bro. RAMSAY'F! conclusion we quote the following sorrowful words:-

i895.]

Grand Lodge o/ Oalij<Yrnia.

91

The Grand Master announced the serious illness of the Grand Secretary, Bro.
JAMES H. WrmrERBHAM. .
The Grand Master made a fervent appeal to the brethren to "be temperate in
all things," and especially so in the use of intoxicants, pleading with all to discontinue the vile habit and bring happiness to their friends and the world at large.
The Grand Master's decisions were based upon the local laws of the jurisdic·
tion, and we notice nothing of general interest,
Relating to Mormonism, the followinir resolution was introduced:-

0

We have been painfully impressed with the cloud of gloom that has hung
during the year over all of the Grand Jurisdictions of .America, owing to the
general stagnation in business by reason of the financial depression, affecting business of every .character, but we have been more gloomiz. overshanowed with the
solemn reflection that we are soon to convene the Grand odge of Georgia without
JOHN S. D AVIDSON, Most Worshipful Grand Master. Darkness must for a time
ensue when the brightest luminary is withdrawn, the chill of a dark winter night
broods over m, and our proceedings of necessity pt1rtake of the natnre of our
surroundings. If we had only known that the last communication was his last
with us, bow different the greeting-how different th~arting. May his noble
spirit linger with us to encourage and to stimulate us. We would hear hi• cheerful
voice again from the Grand East reminding us that "sorrow endureth for a night;
joy coineth in the morning." No pen can describe our sorrow, no voice express our
loss, no mind conceive the shock to Masonry in this jurisdiction by the removal so
suddenly of our great chieftain and leader; but our faith assures us that Israel's
God will provide for and comfort us, in this our time of need.
,
The M. •. W. '. JOHN P. SHANNON was elected Grand Master; the R. •. W. ••
.ANDREW M. W OLIHIN was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Committee on Correspondence: W. S. RAMSAY, Chairman, W. E. MUMFORD,
A.. Q. MOODY.
IDAHO.

The Grand Lodge of Idaho held its twenty-seventh .Annual Communication at
Boise City, September 11, 1894,-the M. ·• W. ·.JAMES A. PINNEY, Grand Master;
the R. '. W. ·. W. C. WroKERSHA.11, Grand Secretary. Twenty-one Lodges were
represented. Four Past Grand Masters were present with the Representatives of
twelve sister Grand Jurisdictions.
.An Emergent Communication of this Grand Lodge was held May 23, at Boise
City, for the purpose of laying the corner stone of a building to be known as the
"Idaho Soldier'• Home." Idaho Commandery, No.1, acted as escort to the Grand
Lodge. The ceremonies were imposing, and passed off with satisfaction to the
participants and the public.
In Annual Communication, September 12, the Grand Lodge was OPened in
Ample Form.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. After ~n impressive
opening, in which he reminded the assembled brethren of their obligation to the
.Almighty Father for preservation and proteJtion during the past, he asked for
their co-operation in striving to maintain the exalted position enjoyed by their
Grand Lodge among the jurisdictions of the nation.
In sorrow the Grand Master reporte!l the death of Past Deputy Grand Master
CHARLES W. CABE and ten other brethren of this jurisdiction. He read from the
death roll the names of the departed brethren, and paid earnest and eloquent
tribute to their memories. He also reported the unusual number of eminent
brethren of sister jurisdictions who had passed away during the year, and extended, on behalf of the Grand Lodge, the sympathy of the brethren of Idaho to
the bereaved Masonic househlllds.

~HKREAB, In ~883 the M. ·. W. '. .Grand Lodge A. F. and A. M. of Idaho adopted
a series of resolutions on Mormomsm, based on the statement or assumption at
that time, "that the teachings of Mormonism were opposed to the law of the
land," and providing "that no person acknowledging allegiance to the so-called
Mormon Church, or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, shall be admitted to any of the privileges of Masonry within the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of I<iaho ; " and
WHERll'-AS, Said Church has satisfactorily demonstrated to the civil authorities
of the government, both National and State, that the teachings of the so-called
Mormon Church, or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, are not opposed
to the law of the land, but, on the contrary, that the members of such Church are
a law-abiding, loyal and moral class of people, attached to the principles of the
Constitution of the United States, and well disposed to the good order and happi·
ness of the same ; therefore be it
Reaolved, That said resolution of the Grand Lodge be and the same is hereby
~pe8:led .and set _aside; and members of said Church possessing the requisite qualifications otherwise be and they are hereby declared eligible for admission as members of the Masonic Order within this jurisdiction, and to all the privileges of
Masonry.

The resolution was referred to a special committee of seven, who recommended.
that a copy of the resolution proposed be sent to each subordinate Lodge in the
jurisdiction, and that each Lodge instruct its representatives to the next session of
the·Grand Lodge how to vote upon the question.
The following resolution was unanimously adopted ;Reaolved, That it is with feelings of the most profound regret that we learn
that Brother JAMES H. WIOKERBHAM, our esteemed Grand Secretary is physically
una:b!e to attend to ~he · duties of Gr~nd Secretary of this Grand Lodge, which
pos1~10n he has so emmendy fill.ed dunng the p~st fifteen years; that we are n'o t
unmm<lful of the valuable services tendered this Grand Lodge and the members
thereof ; that we hereby beg to return our sincere and grateful acknowledgments
to him, and, in token of our esteem for him as a man and a Mason, we hereby
tender to him our heartfelt sympathy in his afHiction.
Idaho has thirty-two chartered Lodges on her roll.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by the Ch.Urman, Bro. CHARLES
C. STBVENSON, who gives us the doings of fifty.three Grand Bodies, with his comments upon their legislation.
Under California, Bro. STEVENSON notes the illness of Grand Master GRITMAN
although probably .not aware of the fact that the illness resulted in the death of
Bro. GRITMAN in a few months thereafter. He has words of praise for the action
of California in the matter of erecting a home for the wards of the jurisdiction.
In regard to the move by certain brethren to secure legislation favorable to the
setting apart of a J>Ortion of the Lodge revenues for the cultivation of the social
amenities, Bro. STEVENSON quotes the address of th.e Grand Master on that subject, and, as we think, very pertinently comments thereon as follows:-There is a great deal of metho<I in the i.bove, which is the approved California
doc:trine. To.be sure, it.is the great aim we. have in view to relieve distress and
assist the afHicted, but m the same connection we suppose it would be our duty

7

98

Proceedings ~I the

[Oct. 9,

as Masons to sustain life and prevent death, and this might as well be applied to
Lodges as to individuals. Lodges that simply transact routine business and then
close, while doin2 what their duty calla them to do, frequently exist as memories
or expire from dry aa dmt. A little sociability prolongs life and improves both
Lodges and M asons. By makin~ the Lodge an enjoyable place, a live, healthy
aggregation of enthusiastic individuals, we are of the opinion that greater good
can be accomplished than by dry, prosaic methods. We don't say that this dry
condition exists in California, save in their wines, for a more ?.ealous lot of Masons
never existed on this globe than inhabit the gol len west; but this is our view of
the situation from our Idaho standpoint. Up here we help all the afflicted, and
not unfrequently a81liat sojourning brethren, often without receiving any remuner.
ation from their home·jurisdictions. We never turn away a worthy applicant and
stil! have enough left t? furnis~ a bite and a .sup, of which we partake around our
aoe1al hearth, to the evident enJoyment and improvement of all concerned.
Exactly, Bro. STKVRNSON, "By making the Lodge an enjoyable place, a live,
healthy aggregation of enthusiastic Masons," the "dry as dust" sessions will pa81l
away, and our Lodges will not only grow in numbers, but in charity and good
deeds, for with their growth will come the ability to do good works. Bro. REUBEN
H. LLOYD'S Oration in 1892 set the matter very forcibly before the Grand Lodge,
and met its hearty concurrence, but we have never been able to agree upon the
detail methods of just how to do it.
Bro. STEVENSON is an enthusiastic admirer of Bro. ANDERSON, our predecessor,
and scolds our Grand Lodge, for "letting him go."
Under Kanfl&I!, Bro. STKVENSON writes these well deserved lines in recognition
of the valuable service rendered Freemasonry by those valued exemplars of its
precepts, the wives, daughters and sisters of Masons. He says to Bro. MILLER, of
Kan!l&B : -

·

·

We agree with you entirely, Brother MILLER, in your remarks with Georgia on
the Eastern Star. Let the ladies of the Eastern Star alone; they do not care
whether their Order i• recognized as a Masonic institution or not. They know
that they are wives, or daughters, or mothers, or sisters, or widows of Masons, and
as such are entitled to the care and protection of M ,.aons wherever dispersed ; and
while recognizing that fact, if they care to organize, the better thereby to do thei;
little on behalf of the great body of general Masonry, ready to assist in anything
socially or otherwise, that will benefit the Craft of which the father, husband o;
brother is a member, ready to lay the gentle hand of womanhood on the feverish
brow of a brother Mason, to alleviate his sufferings and to gladden the heavy
hearts of the loved ones left to mourn, it ill becomes the carping ones of the fraternity to fling their darts at friends whose sole object, like womanhood in general
is to assi•t. All hail to the Eutern Star! We wish it unbounded success and
prosperity.
·
In noticing the Address of the Grand Master of Ohio, Bro. STRVENSON writes
these words in the interest of Legitimacy and Loyalty:Of the clandestine Masonic Bodies that have made so much ~rouble in Ohio
he RBYB that the strife 9:nd unhallowed cnnten.tiona have entirely disap:rared and
general ~armony preye.ila. The Cemeau ~od1ea have melted away, an , with perhaps a srn2le exception, have become extmct We are truly glad of this for it
was a sad thing to Stl!l men who caµed themaelve~ Masons rebel against th~ legal
Gra.nd Lodge, eatabhah one of their own, and then canvass for candidates taking
in any one who came along for as low as t en dollar• for the degrees. We glory in
Ohio for her pluck. Keep the rebels and traitors out, and never give them a· foothold in your Lodges again, no matt.er how many good 1 romisea they may make.
The M. ·• W. •• ADELBERT B. CLARK was elected Grand Maste~. The R.-. W.' • .
JONAS W. BROWN was elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Bro. CHARLES
c. STRVENSON, Boise City.

1895.]

Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

99

ILLINOIS.
The Grand Lod!fe of Illinois assembled in Occasional Communication, July 4,
1894, in the city of SpringfieM, for the purpose of placing the corner atone of the
State Fair building. The attendance was a great gathering of citizens. The
parade was one of the grandest ever witnessed in the State of Illinois. The ceremonies were impr081lively performed in accordance with the ancient custom. The
Grand Lodge returned to the hall and was closed.
The Grand Lodge of Illinois held its fifty-fifth Ann~al Communication in the
city of Chicago, October 2, 1894,-M. ·. W . ·. LRROIA GoDDABD, Gra'ud Master;
R. '. W. '. J. H. C. DILL, Grond Secretary. Six hundred and eighty Lodges were
represented. Seven Past Grand Mastera were present, with the Representatives of forty-five sister jurisdictions. Worshipful JORN McLAREN, California's
representative, was conapicnoua by his absence.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
Cha.plain.
The Grand Master named the usual committees, and proceeded to deliver his
Annual Address. With his welcome to the assembled brethren, a.nd reference to
the business condition of the country, he delfrera the cheerful meBllage that : The ·distreSB in financial and industrial affairs bas not in a.ny wa.y stayed the
progre81l of Masonry throughout our Grand Jurisdiction. Indeed, it has been a
year of unusual interest a.nd activity-a year of success in cementing more strongly
the ties of brotberlv love and affection, in developing a b roader view of the beautiful teachings and purifying influences of our noble Fraternity.
We know the ills a.nd hurts of life are caused by the mistakes of men, and can
only be t emporary.
" The darkest day,
Live till to-morrow, will have pa.Siled away."
Alluding to the absent ones, called to mind by the vacant sea.ts in Grand Lodge,
he says:Brethren, we see new faces here every year. Our annual . gatherings grow
larger, and new Loitges are added to the roll, new names t o the list of representatives-and every delegate a man of character a.nd intelligence, a representative
citizen of the great State of Illinois. What other institution or occasion brings
together one thousand or more men who are grander specimens of noble manhood?
Every year some forms are notably absent, though they do n ot fade from our
vision. The angel of death beckons, and the soul.a of those we love are released
from earth. The only summons from our ranks of active Grand Officers this year
claimed the spirit of Worshipful Bro. JAMES M. MoNTGOMRRY, Grand Steward.
His death occurred at his home in Rock Island, January 25, 1894. He was born
in Monteur county, Pa., Januar_r 8, 1842. He served seven terms as Worshipful
Master of Trio Lodge, No. 57. The purity of his private life and the fullness of
his Masonic labors endeared him to his associates in life. By his request he was
laid to rest with Masonic honors.
The Grand Master refers to the names upon the death roll of the juriadictiontheir own kindred and brethren-and also to the many eminent brethren of sister
jurisdictions who have passed from their labors on earth to eternal refreshment.
The Grand Master reports the establishment and satisfactory progress of five
schools of instruction, in which great interest was manifested ; he bad commissioned sixty.nine Deputy Grand Lecturers who were qlla.lified, and authorized to
teach the standard work.
Seven Masonic halls, including the great Temple at Chicago, were dedicated
during the year, and six corner stones placed for the erection of future build ings.

100

Procudings of the

[Odt. 9,

The Grand Master made all the visitations practicable in this immense juristion.
Under the head of Decisions the Grand Master says:I have been requested to make scores of rulings during the year on questions
submitted. Answers. to. nearly all of these 9uestions could have been found by
ref~rence to the const1tut1on and ~y-laws of this Grand Lodge, or approved ruliags
of ita Grand Masters. I deem it proper, however, to submit the following for
consideration, as they were made on cases at issue :
The brethren should bear in mind that Grand Master makes rulings as he uudei:stan~, the "constitution, laws, rules and rf!jllllations," which are given him
strictly m charge. He cannot shape them to suit personal feelings in special cases.
I hav:e been .asked a i;i.umber of times ~or dispensatians a~thorizing Lodges to appear ID public on nat10nal or State holidays, or take part m some local public celebration. As no special or Masonic reason was presented in either case, no such
dispensa~io!1 was granted. Applications werl! also m84e by more than one Lodge
for permission to act as escort to Commander1es of Kmghta Templar on Ascension
Day, Easter Sunday and other occasions. Think of the inconsistancy of an unarmed body of Masons preeuming to act as escort or guard to an armed Commandery of Knights Templar. It ought to be understood by all that it is not
custor;riary for a Lodge of Ancient Craft Masoi;i.s to act a~ escort to any other ·
orgamzed body of men. On these, and the question of phy~1cal qualificatwns of
candidates, occasional exceptions have been taken to Grand Master's answers to
questions. It would seem that in nearly all cases, members of Lodge who personally see the applicant are best prepared to determine whether or not he is proper
matl>.rial physically. In one instance I answered that a oerson who is compelled
to walk with the assistance of a crutch is not physically qualified to be made a
Mason ; he must be cap,.ble of conforming literally to what the several degrees require of him 'Without assistance.
But these cases of combativeness are exceptional and rare. The letters of
good will and fr,.ternal cheer that come to the Grand East number in the
many h~ndred.s.. and it. h~s even been a pleas,.nt duty to answer all such in the
same lovmg spmt. Behevmg the Granrl Master of Masons of Illinois should be
what the title implies (not merely Grand Master of the Grand Lodge, or a select
number), I have ever tned to keep in close touch with the entire Craft, and believe
that I replied promptly and courteously to every letter received that called for an
answer.
The election of officers for the Grand Lodge of Illin·ois is held on the second
day of the session.
The following amendment to Grand Lodge By-Laws, by ~dding the following
section, was adopted :SECTION 5. Electioneering in any way for one's self for office in the Grand
Lodge is prohibited as unmasonic, and any member found guilty of the offense
shall be ineligible to office; and, if already in office, shall forfeit the office held by

him.

The Finance Committee made the following report upon the proposition of
Bro. Gxo. M. MOULTON to donate the sum of $5000.00 to the Illinois Masonic
Orphans' Home :your committee, to which was referred the .resolution _appropriating or donating
five thousand dollars to the Illinois Masonic Orphans' Home, fraternally report:
That we commend the management of that institution, and the uoble and self-sacri·
ficing spirit of ita promoters, in their efforts to provide for the helpless orphans of
d<"ceased ~rethr~n. Yet this committee doe.s '!ot feel justifioo in recommending a
course which might be construed as comrn1ttmg the Grand Lodge to a policy of
paternalism which might sooner or later result in the necessity of ita becoming
responsiblf! for the maintenance and support of the Mason~c Orphan's ~ome.
We believe the members of the Grand Lodge should, ID all donations of this
character, where the question to be determined is not one of expediency or propriety, hut of charity, pure and simple, act each upon his own judgment as to the
advisability of making the allowance. With this view of the matter, and without

1895.l

••

Grand Lodge of California,

101

~eeking to inftuence any of the Representatives in their action, we respectfully
return the resolution to the Grand Lodge for such a~tion as may seem to it.right.
R. ·. W. ·. Bro. GEORGE M. MOULTON moved the adoption of the original reso.
. .
lution as presented by him.
· M. ". W .. Bro. MoNHOIC C. CRAWFORD moved to amend the motion by stnk1ng
out "$5000" and inserting "$500." Amendment lost, and ori~nal motion prevailed.
"Honors" for Bro. GEORGE M. MOULTON.
Illinois bears upon her roll seven hundred and sill'teen active Lodges, with a
membership of 49,236 Master Ma~ons.
The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master JOSEPH RoBBINS-a
most inte~esting paper, thoroughly treating the questions arising in our several
families of Free and Accepted Masons, from the standpnint of the ancient charges
and regulations, as set forth in harmony with the original plan of Masonry. Bro.
ROBBINS reviews forty-nine American Grand Lodges, with those of England and
South Austr,.lia. As to matters for discussion-food for thought-Bro. RoBBINB
seems to have HD abundant supply on hand. He writes:Besides the perennial questions which crop out over the field in every year, and
which claim attention because every year there is in part a new generation of masters coming on to be perplexed by them, several matters have claimed unusual
attention.
In commenting on the Masonic Congress and its msulta, he says :It is t~e of any body of men that what it does not do is quite as imfortant and
often quite as significant as what it does. This is peculiarly true o a Masonic
body; and when, in a body of Masons as large and as representative as the
Masonic Congress of 1893, doctrines are advanced or propositions submittted, possibly reflectin~ the action of Grand Lodges who affect to recognize no \imitat1ons
upon their sovereign will and no higher law than the law of pre"9Dt expediency, it
is reassuring to find the constraint of the ancient law so profoundly and generally
felt the.t it needs no other expression than non-action. This must be taken into
account before we admit the justice of the most frequent criticism of the Congress
-that it accomplished so little. It is yet too early to estimate ita results. It
would be strange, indeed, if it should contributa nothing towards a more inclusive
consensus of expression, when, after supplementing long years of discussion by
correspondence committees and others, in print. by a comparison of views at the
short range of oral debate, it is found that ita formulated conclusions are in harlDOllY with the original plan of Masonry.
The records of the year show the most prolific cause of serious friction between
Grand Lodges to be the want of uniformity in their regulations respecting rejectetl
candidates. The majority of Grand LodgAs forbid the making of a rejected candidate save in the Lodge which rejected him, without a waiver of the jurisdiction
to which he subjected himself when he put his petition in their hands. Other
Grand Lodges provide that after a stated period such jurisdiction shall cease, leaving any other Lodge within whose territory he has resided for the prescribed
length of time free to entertain his petition. This period is generally fixed at one
year from the time of rejection, and usually, perhaps in all instances, so far corresponds to the time during which the rejecting Lodge is itself forbidden to again
receive hi~ petition. A person rejected in a State where jurisdiction over rejected
candidates 1s perpetual, removing into another State where the regulations make
such jurisdiction only temporary, and being made a Mason there, complaint naturally follows from the Grand Lodge of his former home that the rights of its constituent Lodge have been disregarded. The reply naturally comes back that he
has fully complied with the requirements of the law in his new home, and that
therefore the Lodge there was the solll judge in the matter, and, having made him,
he is a lawful Mason, standing upon an equal footing with all other Masons.
Both Grand Lodges are right according to their own laws, and each claims to be
right according to the law of MW!onry. Both are equ•lly sovereign bodies, and
each with a show of truth accuses the other of attempting to give its own regulations extra-territorial force- the one by making a Mason of a man who has 00en

102

Proceedings of the

1895.J

[Oct. 9,

pronounced unfit by authority whose competency to decide the other does not and
cannot gainsay, the other by denying-if, as is probable, it does deny it-the
validity of bis making when it knows him to have been made by a Lodge whose
·Masomc acts must be given full faith end credit so long as the Masonic compe·
tency of the Grand Lodge of which it is a constituent part is recognized.
When relations between Grand Lodges become thus strained, each must sullenly bear what it feels to have been an outrage on the part of tbe other, which is
intolerable; or open rupture of fraternal relations and estrangement muet follow,
which is too intvlerable to be contemJ>lated as a permanent possibility; or comity
must suggest some modm vivendi by which peace and good will may be preserved.
To this object Mississippi, under the lead of Past Grand Master SPEED, has
addressed herself by the adoption of uniform rules, so called because designed to
bring about a uniform practice, if not among all Grand Lodges, at least among
such as may give their adhesion to them. The subject is one of such importance
that it should have the most careful and deliberate consideration before it is determined that je•lousy of their own sovereignty absolutely forbids concession on
either band.
In bis review of California, Bro. ROBBINS notes the illness of our Grand Master
GBITlllAN, who, in a few months thereafter, passed to eternal rest. Bro. ROB.BINS
notes our start and progress in the enterprise of building a home for our Masonic
wards. He comments "quizically" upon our non-affiliation regulations and their
definition by the Committee on Jurisprudence, and tries to.be solemn over the
report of the same committee on the forms and ceremonies to be obi;er\·ed fu the
investigation of the ballot box.
It is undoubtedly for the general good that uniform rules should be observed for
the discharge of even the simplest Lodge duties, but we are reminded, in such
matters, of the dispute between two brethren who were learning the uniform California work several years ago. In their zeal to make no departure from the text a
dispute arose between them as to whether our Grand Master, in the lecture,. was
so "great and good" a man, etc., or was be so "good and great" a man, etc. The
matter was referred to the Grand Lecturer.
Referring to the electioneering business, we think altogether too much prominence is ~ven to the subject. Whenever it becomes offensively prominent, most
certainly our generai law ought to have force and effect eno~b to arrest the evil,
and we agree with Bro. ROBBINS that prohibiting Lodges from an interchange of
views for or against auy proposition of interest to them is the denial of an inherent right as members of the Masonic family. Bro. ROBBINS writes:-

The question of the. right or propriety of Lodges sending out communications
desittned to influence legislation in the Grand Lodge, stanus on quite a different
footma.
Such an act is neither unlawful nor scandalous. It is the exercise of a
0
right that is the equivalent of the political ri~ht, to peaceably assemble and petition for the redre~s of grievances; and so long as it is publicly exercised-that is,
80 long as the circulars are sent to all the Lodges-and proposes only lawful means
of securing the end desired, there is no colorable pretext upon which the Grand
Lodge may properly interfere with it.
M. •• W. ·• LEBOYA G-0DDABD was re-elected Grand Master, and R. •• W, ·• J. H.
C. DILL was re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master
JOSEPH RoBBINS.
INDIANA.
The Grand Lodge of Indiana held its seventy-fourth Annnal Communication in the
city of Indianapolis, May 28th, 1895,-the M.·. W.·. FRANKE. GAVIN, Grand Master;
B.·. W.·. WILLIAH B. BHYTHlil, Grand Secretary. Thirteen Past Grand Masters were
present at roll-call, together with the Masters, Wardens or Representatives of four
hundred and sixty-seven chartered Lodges.

•

l

Grand Lodge of Ualifornia.

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap.
lain.
After the naming of the committees, the Grand Master delivered his Annual
Address. He commenced with the meeting of the Representatives of nine Lodges
seventy-seven years ago, and commented upon the growth of the seeds then planted
developing into the splendid organization of "to-day," when, in response to his
greeting, five bnnilred brethren, representing the Lodges of the commonwealth and
their membership of 28,000 Masons, joined him in giving thanks to the Supreme
Grand Ml\ster for unnumbered blessings and for the preservation that enabled them
to meet in Grand Lodge once again to elfect such legislation as might be needed for
the well-being of the Fraternity.
The Grand Master reports thirty decisions, but as many are governed by the local
Jaw we see no chance to sustain a demurrer.
Portraits of Grand Master GAVIN and Grand Secretary S.llYTHlll ornament this
volume of proceedings.
The total receipts for the past year were $20,652.96; the total disbursements for
the past year were $17,203.56. The invest.ad funds of Grand Lodge are $25,474. 79.
Past Grand MaRter THOMAS B. LoNG, for the Committee on Necrology, submitted
an eloquent report, being a tribute of affectionate regard for the memories of the
illostrions Past Deputy Grand Ma•ters General MA!ILON DICURRON MABSON and
ELIJAH Nswu.1m, beloved . members of the Grand Lodge of Indiana-a glowing
eulogy opon the lives and character of two eminent, worthy brethren.
Bro. W1LLIUi: CoMHONB, Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, submitted the following report, which was unanimously adopted:ON PlllRPETUAL JURISDICTION.
Yonr Committee on Foreign Correspondence, to whom was referred that portion
of the Grand Master's Address relating to the .correspondence between the Grand
Master of Penn•ylvania and Grand Master GAVIN of our own jurisdiction, growing
oot of the doctrine of perpetual jurisdiction over rejected candidates, as held by the
nrand LodgA of Pennsylvania, respectfully report:That the Grand J,odge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Indiana, ie,
· and of right, ought to be, the "highest authority of Ancient Craft Masonry within
the State of Indiana. '' That while we accord to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania,
and all other Grand Lodges, the right to make laws for the government of the Craft
within their respective jurisdictions, we claim the same privileges for our own Grand
Lodge. Regarding the doctrine of perpetual jurisdiction over rejected candidates,
we believe it to be wrong in theory and pernic1ons in action ; not in accordance with
the well-recognized principle of Grand Lodge sovereignty and not a landmark in
Masonry, being held only by a minority of American Grand Lodges. It is the only
question now disturbing the amity existing between Grand Jurisdictions, and it is
with pleasure we note the abrogation or modification of the rnle by some of the
Grand Lodges hitherto holding it.
To the point and unanswerable, Bro. COMMONS.
Bro. WILLIAM Com:1110Ns, as Chairman of;Committee on Correspondence, gives us
another splendid report. His work is so much to our taste that we quote most of bis
introduction here. He says:This report hes been prepared midst some perplexities, and more professional
work than we anticipated in the beginning, but the work has been a labor of love,
and it is in no spirit of egotism that we assure the brethren if they will do us the
honor to read our production, it will do them good. As heretofore we have refrained
from criticising the work ot other reviewers, or engaging in controversy over disputed questions. Oar effort has been to review the proceedings of Grand Lodges,
and not the reviews of reviewers. This statement will be our explanation why we
have given no extended notices of the Reports on Foreign Correspondence of other
Grand Lodges. We desire .to say, however, that we have read those reports, and
from them have received strength and encourafl'ement for our work. To many of
the cbairiuen we are under obligations for kind words, and where criticism bas been
tart, we are reconciled by the thought that it was either deserved, or the writer was

104

Proce,edings of the

root. 9,

1895.]

laboring ooder a misapprehension . To one and all we will say, that while we do not
think the goild Rhoold be a mntoal admiration society, we are both glad and prood
to be oombered among tbem.
Our review comprises all the Grand Lodges of tbe United Slates and Dominion of
Canada, except the District of Oolumbia and Massachosetts, whose proceedings are
missed from our table, We regret this, because we desireil to make our report com·
plete, and also becaose in case of the Bay State brethren, their aonoal festival had
become an annual feast for os. It bas always been refreshing to see bow those old
yooogstere enjoy themselves, and their speeches oh each recorriog occasion is a
mental exhilaration.

In this instance formal charges were filed by the Junior Warden against the
Master, charging him with onmasooic con~oct, and specl!yiog drunkenness. He
suspended the Master and appointed a oomm1ttee. to ~ake evidence ~nd report. The
committee performed its work. and at a proper time m the proceedmgs of this Commonicatioo, tbe charge and testimony thereon were placed before the Grand Lodge,
which proceeded to try the case, finding the accused guilty and ioftictlog the penalty
of expolsio!I from all the rights and privileges of Ma•onry.
We here raise the query, Was this the proper thing to do? We have ~ot ~be laws
of Iowa, and cannot speak as to this special case, hut DJ:!on. th~ bro~d prioc1ple that
every Lodge of Masons io the conservator of Masonry m. its JU~1sd1ction, we are of
the opinion that the Grand Lodge osorped the prerogative of its subordinate. A
Grand Master can suspend the functions of a Lodge, and for official mi•condoct · he
can suspend the Master of a Lodge from bis oftl.ce. A charge again.st the Master .or a
Lodge ror official misconduct i• an impeachment for malfeasance m oftlce, and 1s ~o
be decided by a higher coort, which is the Grand Lodge. In charges for nnmaso!'tc
conduct a subordinate Lodge bas original jo~isdiction over all its members, inclndmg
·the Worshipful Master.

The Grand Master then turns to the purposes of the Address, trusting that the
proceedingR of the Commonicatioo will be governed by the established principles of
the "Order." We enclose the word " Order" in qootatioos for the porpose of calling
attention to the misnomer. We are sorprised and annoyed by the freqoeot n•e of
"Order" by Grand Master~ and ·committees, when they mean Fraternity. Elsewhere in this review we have elaborated oor ideas anent this habit. Masonry is a
Fraternity, and a grand and noble one, too. If brethren will have it so, there may
be in Masonry, orders and orders. There may be orders of Entered Anprentices, of
Fellow Orafts and Master MaRoos; but the great body of Masonry, collectively, is a
Fraternity. Remember this, Grand Me.Ater, and do not worry the souls of laymen by
a careless expression of your ideas. But revenons a nos moutons.

When a man ~nee becomes a Master Mason, he· remains a Master Mason forever,
because he can never forget and never give op his knowledge of the three degrees,
The next decision is for the explanation and application of the foregoing, to wit :
When a man does anything for which he is tried, convicted and expelled, he ceases
to be a Mason in good standing, but his obligation to keep the secrets of Masonry
are the same, whether he be an expelled Maeon or in good standing. After he is
expelled, if he discloses the secrets, he remembers what the peo11lties are of the
obligation, and he is liable to bave tflose inflicted on him.
And comments as follows:These are the expressions of a Master in Masonry, one whose every expreBBion
is entitled to respectful consideration, It is a vigorous call for the "ultimate
penalty," and reminds us of the trad itional WILLIAM MORGAN. We have no objection to tbe role being adopted · as general law, and think it could be applied with
good elfect and profit to the Cr.aft, to those Masons who are not oircnmspect in the
nee of Lodge secrets.
•
In another decision be rules that a man who has received any of the degrees of
Cerneau Masonry oanoot be admitted a member of any f,odge in Georgia, unless be
be healed of his infirmity upon proper petition to the Grand Lodge. This ·raliog is
based on an edict of the Grand Lodge made in 1889, and is the first mention of Cerneaoism we have noticed this year.
Under Idaho, Bro. COMMONS returns to his criticis111 of the misuse by Grand
Masters of the word "Order." He concludes:We do not wish to be pedantic ; nor ·are we in the habit of trying to "teach oor
graod·daddy to sock eggs," but it annoys us to see Grand Masters and Masonic
lawyers overlooking the difference between " tweedle dee and tweedle dnm."

105

In bis review of Georgia, we note that the Grand Lodge . of Georgia bolds in
fraternal respect and affection the faithful services of its last leader, the gifted JOHN
SHELDON DAVIDSON, and held memorial exercises in remembrance of bis unselfish
devotion ~od great service to the Masons of Georgia. The programme consisted of
invocations, addreRses and music.
In reviewing Iowa, Bro. ColllMONS mentions an incident reported by the Grand
Master. He says :-

If being perplexed brioga forth the kind of a paper furnished by Bro. COMMONS,
then away with peace and comfort and ·mix a little botheratioo lo ours. Io his review
of California, commenting on the Address of Grand Master ORME, be writes the
following, which appeals to us for its truth and pertinence:-

Bro. COMMONS treats fully the reports or our Oommittee on Jurisprudence , and
gives special attention to the NICOLS case, embracing tbe action of the English
Lodge in its interference with the jorisdictional rights of Olay Lodge of oor State.
He also giveR interested attention to the founding of the Widows' and Orphans'
Home of California, and writeR words of praise for the good work of oor several
boards Of relief in the dispensation Of the funds placed Rt their disposal ,
Under Georgia, Bro. CoMMONS quotes the following decisions:-

Grand Lodge of OaJ.ijornia.

Which depends upon the location of your domicile, Bro. 0. If in California, oor
law, Sec. 8, Art. II, Part 3, in treating of ·• the powers and duties of a Lodge,''
reads:4

3d. .Judloial-Embraciog the exercise of discipline over its own members (except
the Master) and all other Masons within its jorisdictioo, and the settlement of controversies between them; subject always to a revision by the Grand Lodge upon appeal.

Aod Sec. 1, Art. II, Part 4., of "trials, appeals and penalties," recites:BELATIVE TO MASTERS OF LODGES.
SECTION 1. Charges may be preferred against.the Master of a Lodge for abose of
his power, violation of the Constitution or Regulations, or onmasooic O(/Ddnct o~ 9:DY
kind, by any five Master Mason• in good standing; which charges ~h~ll be i!' wr1tmg
over their signatures, and •hall be presented to the Grand Lodge, 1f 1n session, or to
the Grand Master daring the vacation .
So it all depends, as does most legislation in our Grand Lodges, upon the provisions or the local law.
Bro. Co.llMONS presents a tabulated statement of Lodges, work and ftoaocial
balances of the Grand Lodge• reviewed, as taken from the reports of Secretaries,
Treasurers and Finance Committees. He sums up the. number of Grand Lodges at
60, with 10,763 sobordinates, with a membership of 768,809 Master Masons, besides
the army of ooo·affiliates.
Bro. COlllJi[ONS deserves tbe thanks of the Fraternity for his painstaking, laborious
report.
The M.·. W.-. EDWABD O'RouRJt& was elected Grand Master; the R.-. W.-.
WrLLIAlll H. Sl!IYTHB was re·elected Grand Secretary. Chairman of Oorrespowienee,
Bro •. WILLIAM COMMONS, Union lJity.
INDIAN TERRITORY.
The Grand Lodge of Indian Territory held its twenty-first Annual Communi~
cation at Rush Springs, August 14, 1894,-the M. '. W. '.ANDREW HARDY, Grand
Master, R. ·• W. ',JOSEPH SAMUEL MURROW, Grand Sec~etary. Forty-six chi!..~-

106

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

tered Lodges and twelve under dispensation were represented. There were present three Past Grand Masters and the Representatives of twenty-one sister Grand
Jurisdictions.
Special Communications were held: February 20, at the Town of Chelsea.,
Cherokee Nation; on the 22d of May, in the Town of Rush Sprin~; and on the
27th of June, 18!14, in the Town of South Canadian, for the laying of cornerstones, respecthely, of a Methodist Church, a Masonic Hall for .Hm Springs
Lodge, and at South Canadian for a church for the Methodist Church South.
The attendance was large and the ceremonies were performed in accordance with
the established usages of the Craft.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
Chaplain.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. After pleasant words of
welcome to the brethren, he reminded them of their cause for gratitude to the
Supreme Ruler, who had withheld the scythe from the handa of the Angel of
Death, which laid with a heavy hand upon other Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Master says: "The Star of the East shines more brightly upon us
to-day than ever before. It serves as a beacon light to our pathway through life
'
guiding us eastward to the goal of our heavenly reward."
no
that
Father
Heavenly
the
due
gratitude
the
expresses
he
Necrology
Under
member of their official circle had been summoned from among them during the
year. He paid eloquent tribute to the eminent dead of sister jurisdictions, and
·
recommended that mourning pages be devoted to their memories.
The Grand Master granted eleven dispensations to form new Lodges during the
year. Talk about stagnation in business matters.
In matters of discipline the Grand Master proved himself an executive with
the courage of his convictions. He promptly suspended three Masters for insubordination and dereliction of duty, and submitted his action for the consideration
of the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Secretary made a very favorable report of the condition of the jurisdiction.
Past Grand Master JOSEPH S . MURROW represents the Grand Lodge of Ca.lifornia near the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by the faithful workman, Chairman and Grand Secretary Bro. MURROW.
Bro. M. gives a review of fifty-four Grand Bodies, the proceedines of Manitoba
North Carolina and South Dakota not ha~ing come to hand. Bro. MURROW is~
painstaking writer, one who is able and willing to assign a reason for the faith that
is in him, and to sustain his reason with the results of practical experience.
Bro. MURROW notes the illness of our Grand Master, CHARLES R. GRITMANwhich he erroneously writes "QUITMAN "-for which reason Past Grand Master
CONKLIN was called to perform hie duties in the Grand East. Yes, Bro. MURROW,
during the year 1894 our eldest and youngest Past Grand Masters were summoned
from among us. M. ·. W. ·.CHARLES RAY GRITMAN was a beloved associate in our
Grand Lodge, a gentleman of fine social instinct~, !ind an accomplished MMon;
he has gone to his reward. In his notice of our Grand Lodge he pays our old
friend and Past Grand Master, HENBY SAYRE ORME,. the following deserved compliment:We have the honor of a personal acquaintance with thefresent Grand Master

J;lEN~Y SAYB.11 ORME, and congratulate him on the honor o presiding over so die'.

tmgu1shed a body as the Grand Lodge of California., and also congratulate the

1895.J

Grand Lodge ·of OaJ,ifornia.

107

Grand Lod~ on having so perfect a gentleman and devoted Mason to preside in
the Grand East. Owing t o the illness of Grand Master CHARLES. RAY QUITMAN,
Past Grand Master ALVAH R. CONB'LIN was caller! to the chair and read the
address of Grand Master QUITMAN, and presided until the election of Gra.nd Master HENRY S. ORME to the Grand East.
Bro. MURROW finds no cause for dissent with the ledelation of the session. He
approves our M11eonic Home project, thinks Bro. HARR must be a useful. and ~ery
busy officer, commends Bro. ANDERSON'S amendment to suppress ele~t1oneermg,
and the reports of the Committee on J urieprudence; and Bro. MURROW very truly
writes of the report of that committee these words:The report of the Commit tee on Jurisprudence is very instructive. The co~­
mittee do not simply say that "we find the decie_ions of the ~rand Mast;f are m
accord•nce with MMonic law, and therefore recommen?. their approval, etc., !lo
common in Indian Territory, but .t~ey take UJ? ~ach dec1eton ~nd . enlarge upon it,
giving reasons why it is correct, c1t111g authont1es, the Constitut1~n" etc.,, etc. If
they differ from the decision, they lri ve their rell!'ons in full. This 1s as it s~ould
be and when read by the brethren of the eubordmate LodgP,a, makes them mtelligent a'nd well informed Masons.
Good words, Bro. MURROW, and as "true .as good." We regard B~o. WILLIA~
C. BKLOHRR as "first among hi~ equals" as an expounder of r.:raaomc law. J:lie
forty years of service in the Grand Lodge of California has so 1m~ressed us w~th
his great ability, that we wonder, in his absence, who can fill _his ~ln~e.. Like
DRUMMOND in Maine, SPK!ID in Mit1Bisaippi, BELCHER in Cahforma ll! simply
,
.
·
indispensable.
Bro. MURROW compliments Bro. EuGXNE DKUPREY for hie able oration, and
corrects Bro. ANDERSON in his charging Indian Territory with "too much" perpetual jurisdiction. Bro. ANDERSON had written : Under Idaho we read that the Grand Lodge ?f Indian Territory reco~ize!! the
right of perpetual jurisdiction of reje~ted ~a~er1al b~ the Lodses. of. th~ Territory
80 long as tha.t rejected material remams w1thm the Grand.Jur1ed1ction,, but w~en
it removes therefrom the Grand Lodge claims no. o'!n~rsh1p, nor does. it recogmze
the ownership of Lodges outside of its Grand Jur1•d1ct1on ov_er such ~eiected material Thia means we take it that the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory does not
clai~ the materiai nor does ;he recognize the right of any other Grand Lodge to
claim it. The canine in the manfi!"er could not eat the hay and he would not per.
mit the ox to do so. How is this?
Bro. M URROW responds:The error here is.in the word "such," O\'er "rejec~ed m~terial." _In?ia!' ?'erritory does not recognize the. owners~ip of material rejected m ot~er .iunsd1ctwne
which bu removed into Indian Territory subsequently to such reiectwn, '\or ~oee
she claim jurisdiction over material rejected here and subsequently removmg mto
another jurisdiction. There is no canine in the manger, brother.
The following is desirable information regarding t~e conditions existing in
Indian Territory prior to the organization of the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma :It is true that the Lodges in an unoccupie~ autonomous. territory have a right
to erect themselves into a Grand Lodge, but.it was a question wheth.er Okla~oma
was Masonically unoccupied territory. It or1ginally ? elonged to Indian Territory
and the Grand Lidge of Indian Territory had not withdrawn ~er ackn?wledged
title to that whole country. Besides, the Grand Lodge of ~ndian Territory was
not sure that even a majority of the Lodges in Oklahoma desired a separate org!'nization ; several of them had declared against it. The Grand Master ?f Indian
Territory was instructed, therefore, to go into Oklahoma, call a. co'!vention o_f the
Lod~e and know from them if they .desired a •eparate orgamzat10n, and, 1f so,
to aid them in the C><ganization of the new Grand Lodge.

M. \ w.·. JOHN (JoYLR was elected Grand Master, R. ·. W. ·. JOSRPH SAMUEL
MuBBOWGrand Secretary. Correspondent, M. ·. W. ·.JOSEPH SAMUEL MURROW

108

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

IOWA.

The Grand Lodge of Iowa held its fifty-second Annue.l·Communlce.tion in the city
of llfe.rshe.ltown, June 4th, 1805,-the M.·. W.·. LJBBRTY EA.TON FBLLows Ol'and
'•
Master; tbe R.·. W.·. Tmm. BUTTON P.&.BVIN, Grand Secretary.
A portrait of Grand Master FELLOWS graces this volnme.
The members of the Grand Lodge were escorted from the Fremont Honse to the
Opera Honse by St. AZitP.mar Comme.odery, No. SO, Knights Temple.r, where the
Grand Milster celled the brethren to order, and opened the GraotJ ·LoiJ g e upon th e
. A 1 F
Tb" d D
egree ID mp e orm, with prayer by the Grand Chaple.in. Eight Past Grand
tr
Mast!ters answered the roll-call, and 422 Lodges were represented at this Commonica on.
The G~and M11eter delivered his .Annual Address, welcoming the brethren with
the cheering words : th re reett onde.r circometa1:1ced 80 highly favorable as to call forth from ~acb heart
e 1ve tes eruot1ooe of gri.t1tude of ~or Supreme Ruler, who bas vouchsafed to 08
sor great a md~Iasure of health, prosperity and happiness as have come to the people
o our 1ove owa.
The Grand Master reported hie official acts, among others the placing of the
corner·stone of the monument to be erected by the Iowa Soldiers' an·d Sailors' Moo.
oment Commission at Dee .Moines. The Grand .Master considered the invitation a
trtbnte or respect to the Grand Lodge. and says:It ~as Indeed a proud day for Iowa, and IL day that should be marked by a white
stone ID the history of Iowa Masonry.
Dispensations wer~ granted for the organization of five new Lodges during the
year .
.The Grand Secretary, in his report, pays eloquent,tribnte to thP. memories of the
eminent Masone, Broe. FRIZZBLL or Tennessee, WBEKLBB of Oonnecticut and
'
Qiunw10K of Oregon, all de11d within the year.
"Death 'e bot a path that must be trod,
If man would ever pass to Ood."
Bro. P.&.~vu•'e re~ort as Grand Librarian is an Interesting paper, illoetr'ated with
liaodsome views of ditferent b111ls aod their rnroiture. 1 bis pet of Bro. p A.llVIN's bas
grown into a collection of rare work a11d curios or world·wlde fame and is said to b'
e
'
ihe largest !fosooic library lo the world.
Oo the evening of the fourth of June, the Grand Officers end members of the
Grand ~odge, aod a large number or citizens, ladlAS and gentlerueo, assembled io
the aodttoriu~ of the .Methodist Church, when an interesting programme, erra~ged
for the ~.coa•ton, was performed, including an address or welcome to the Grand
Lodge, interspersed with musical exercises.
The Grand Lodge exchanged coogratnlatlons by telegraph with the Grand Lodge
of New York, then in seBBion.
Bro• .J. O. W. OoxE presents the Report on Correspondence, for which we are
tb~okful. ~ro. Con has "read, marked , learned and digested" the Jeg1slatlon and
dorngs of sixty-one Grand Lodges, and gives os the result io 13( page• of beautiful
paper and clean type, flavored with his comments upon the condition and progress
of Freeme.sonry "'moog the nations of the earth,
Io bis review of California, Bro. COXE notices the .Address of Grand .Master ORME
the reports of our Committee on Jnrieprodence and general Jegi•lation, He tbinb
he w.onld argue some of our "strange doctrines,'• bnt refrains from want of space.
Ali right, Bro. OoXll:, there 'e another year coming.
Bro. OoxE calls attention to a mistake of ours last year in reporting present at
the opening of the Graod Lodge of Iowa but " threu " Past Grand Masters,. when

}"895.]

Grand Lodge of QaJ,if<Yrnia.

109

eight of those eminent brethren answered "present" at roll·ce.11. Right, Bro. Oou,
we stand corrected, and promise never to be gnilty or a like offense age.in ; and,
meanwhile, Bro. Coxz will please accept our thanks for kind words in hie reference
to this writer.
In reviewing Illinois, be qnotes Bro. RoBBINB, and says:The report on Me.sonic Homes he declares to be "the ablest and most exhaustive
report we have yet seen upon the subject." Tbe "Cypher Key" question calls forth
from him extended comment. He says that these Keye "abound m Iowa." Whence
be derived hi" information is to us a mystery ; but we can assure him from a somewhat extended and carefnl observation that the "zymotic debauchery" le not leas
extensive in Illinois than in Iowa. He finds the producing cause of this "disease" in
the ract that our " Grand Lodge ostentatiously (7) recognizes as a co-ordinate (?)
governing iiower in Masonry" the Supreme Council or the Scottish Rite of the Sontbern Jurisdiction, which furnishes to !ts sobordluatee printed rituals. and says that
" rrom tbje center of Infection the disease bas gradually spread "' • '" "' to at
least five American Grand Lodges.'' We pa.BB the erroneous etatemenla In the first
quotation abov~ given, which we have challenged by a query(?), to note that of the
five American Gzand Lodges which rornieh cyphers to their enbordinates, but one is
within the juri.cliction ol the Snpreme t:ouncll named, the other four being within
the territ,,ry of the Supreme Council of the Northern Jurisdiction of the 8cottieb
Rite, to tnhich Bro. RoBBTNB himaelf g(oe• allegiance. Why this unfair discrimination
and arre.ig11me11t should be made we do not care to enrmiee.
Cyphers and cypher keys ! the crop seems to be altogether too abundant. It le a
great evil - we only hope not a growing one.
In replying to Bro. Ot.&.BKI, 9f Kentucky, Bro. OoxE scored a point when he
wrote:He cb~lenges oar comment on bis discussion of the denial of the right of visits·
tion by a Lodge In Pennsylvania to a Delaware brother who had not renonnced
Cerneaulem, saying: "It takes a bold man to say that an ojflcer of a Grand Lodge
is not In good standing. Does Bro. OoxE see the point 7" We do not. The
point is rnally pointless, and not well taken; the brother, wbe.tever bis position in
Delaware, had. no .tanding in P11n118lfloan(a as a just and upright Me.i;on, because
he was debarred by Pennsylvania Jaw. Does Bro. CLA.BD: see the point 7
In his concln<ion, Bro. OoxE expresses our conclnelone, when be writes:-

'

There are no" burning questions'' agitating the Craft at the present time. The
quiet might be painfnl bnt that we love peace rather than strife. The Grand Repre·
Fentatlve system seems in 8 fair war to go Into "innocnoue desuetude.'' Revere.I
Grand Jurisdictions have abandoned 1t dnring the past year as useless, or as an occasion of misunderstanding and unfraternal strife, The Mississippi rnle•, In their pres·
eot form. have evidently failed or approval by a majority of American Grand Lodges;
yet the discussion which they have called forth will be fraitral of good results. Some
modification of the doctrine of perpetual jnriediction will occur at no remote day.
The Wisconsin roles, similarly, have railed of geueral endorsement; and yet to all
thoughtful minds the desirability or some general and uniform rnlee, dictated alike
by justice and by courtesy, appears very desirable.
The M .•, W. •• G11:0BGE WA.BBINGTON B•LL was elected Grand Master ; the .R.-. W.-.
1'1111:0. BUTTON P.&.BVIN was re-eltcted Grand Secretary. Committee on Correspond·
encc, J.&.MEB CLABKE WATSON Ooxz, Washington.

IRELAND.
received a circular report from the Grand Lodge of Ireland containing official roll for 1895; Grand Treasurer's account for year ending December 31,
1894 ; the Grand Lodge Charity Fund, with abstract of accounts and grants
made by Committee of Charity during 1894 ; warrants issued and surrendered ;
Brethrt1n suspended and expelled ; list of Lodges on the register of the Grand
Lodge of Ireland, with amount received and amount due from each Je.nuar7 1,
We~have

110

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

1895. We notice nothing of interest tc the general reader, and merely give the
list of officers of Grand Lodge of Ireland for 1895 :GR.A.ND LODGE OFF. & .A.. MASONS OF !REL.A.ND.
Patron :-H. R.H. THK PRINOE OF WALKS, K. G., K. P.
Ojfice:ra of Grand Lodge f<Yr 1895.

His Grace The Duke of .A.bercorn, M. ·. W. ·• Grand Master.
Robert William Shekleton, Q. C., J. P., R . ·. W. ·. Deputy Grand Master.
R!ght Hon. Marquis of Hertford, R. ·. W. ·.Senior Grand Warden.
Right Hon. Viscount Tem_pleton, R. ·. W. ·.Junior Grand Warden.
James Creed Meredith, LL.D., R. ·. W. ·.Grand Treasurer.
Right Hon. Lord Castletown, R. ·. W. •• Grand Secretal"!.
Righ~ Hon. and Most ~V:· Lo!'d Plunket, .A.bp., Dub., R. ·. W. ·. Grand Chaplain1 the Rev. BenJamin Gibson, M. .A.., R. •. W. '. Grand Chaplain.
·
W. J. vhetworle Crawley, LL.D., W. ·• Senior Grand Deacon.
William M. Battersby, J.P., W.·. Junior GrandDe'!.con.
William Spence, C. E., W. ·. Grand Superintendent of Works.
William G. Hu band, W. ·. Grand Director of Ceremonies.
William Comyns, W . '. Grand Steward.
George Drury, W. '. Grand Sword Bearer.
Thomas R. G. J oze, Mus. D., W. '. Grand Owanist.
James M. Lowry, W. ·.Grand Inner Guard.
W. J. C. Urawley, LL.D., W. ·. Grand Sec. G. L. of Instruction.
Archibald St. George, W. ·• Deputy Grand Secretary and Tre&l!urer.
Henry E. Flavelle, W. ·• .A.ssiatant Secretary.
Office : Freemasons' Hall, Moleaworth street, Dublin.
KANSAS.

The Grand Lodite of Kansas held its thirty-ninth Annual Communication in
the city of Topeka, February 20, 1895,-the M. '. W. '. GKORGll: W. CLARK, Grand
Master; R. ·. W. ·• ALBERT K. WILSON, Grand Secretary. 1.'wo hundred and
seventy-one Lodges ware represented. Eight Past Grand Masters were present,
with the Representatives of twenty-six sister Grand .Jurisdictions.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
Chaplain.
This volnme contains the portraits of the late illustrious brother, Past Deputy
Grand Master DwrnHT BYINGTON, and Worshipful Ero. FRITZ MAGKRS, Grand
Tyler of the Grand Lodge of Kansas from 1868 to 1894.
After greeting the assembled brethren, the Grand Maoter delivered his Annual
Address. He called the attention of the brethren to the vacant seats in their midst,
and sorrowfully alluded to the familiar forms and faces from whom t'bey had for
many years received brotherly salutations.
The name of MAmcBS, the Sentinel over the Grand Lodge of Kansas for twentyeight years, BTINGTON and PHILBRIOK, faithful workers in any department to
which they were a88igned, with Bros. RAMBLE, DRUMMOND and W.AGSTAPF,
enthusiastic, honest and upright Masons- their names are inscribed upon the roll
of honor, and their memories preserved in the hearts and affections of the brethren
of Kansas.
The Grand Master, also remembering their brethren in aflliction, extended the
sympathy of the Grand Lodge of Kansas to the bereaved sister jurisdictions who
mourn the loss of emin~nt and illustrious brethren : The Grand Masters of Arizona and Georgia, the Past Grand Masters of Colorado and Tenne880e, the Deputy
Grand Master of Utah, the Grand Treasurers of Ohio and Maine, the Grand
Secretari01J of New Brunswick, Oregon and TenneBBee, with the Grand Lecturers
of Arkansas and MiBBissippi, fiirnish a list of illustrious names for the death roll
of 1894.
"Great, noble, generous1 good and brave,
Their deeds shall live oeyond the grave."

1895.]

Grand Loib;Je of Oal,iforni,a.

111

The Grand Master iBBued seven dispensations for the formation of new Lodges
during the yel\r.
The Grand Master was compelled to report his inability to comply with the
recommendations of the Grand Lodge in the matter of L odge visitations.
Under the head of decisions we note nothing of more than local import.
The Grand Master presents, for the consideration of the Grand Lodge, the
proposed Missi•sippi uniform rules, without comment: Also the proposition of
the Grand Lodge of W iaoonsin in regard to the subject of Masonic relief.
The Grand Secretary made a lengthy detailed report, in fact a concise history
of the Grand Lodge from it~ organization.
The Committee on NecrolOR"Y submitted the following admirable report, which
was adopted : Your committee, to which was referred that portion of the M. ·. W. ·.Grand
Maoter's address which relates to "our dead," fraternally submit the following
testimonial to the memory of our brethren who have entered into that inheritance
incorruptible, and that fadeth not av,oay :
Wf't comme11J to the thoughtful consideration of the brethren of this Grand
Juriadict;on tha appropriate and kindly sentiments ao suitably expressed by our
M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master in reference to the deceased of this and other jurisdictions, and unite with him in extending our most fraternal condolences to the
bereaved. We, too, feel their immense bereavement, share their grief, and sympathize with them in their sorrows, with all the sensibilities of a brother's heart.
We deem it befitting this occasion to make especial reference to the great loBB sue. tained by this Grand Jurisdiction in the death of s~ many zealous and. active
Craftsmen, among whom may be particularly mentioned W . ·. FRITZ MAGKRS, who
for twenty.eight years last past aa we came together in Annual Communication
contributed so much, as Grand Tyler, to our comfort and safety ; Bro. J. L. PHILB&!OK, Grand Senior Warden in 1871; Past Deputy Grand Master DWIGHT
RYINGTON, whose lab•>rs as chairman of the Committee on Chartered Lodges have
added much to tha history of this Graud Lodge that is praiseworthy; and Bro.
J. M. CHIVINGTON, Worshipful Master of the first Lodge organized in Kansas,
and .since Grand Master of Ma.~ons of Colorado. As a Mason, as a minister of
the gospel, as soldier upholding the unity and integrity of his country, and as a
citizen, Bro. CHIVING'l'ON h&!I left a record entirely worthy of imitation. To us
who survive come these reflections: The harvest of death keeps ..pace with the
ceaseless tread of time; the principles of mortality are inherent in the human
constitution. How imperfectly we all realize the fact that we are rapidly approaching that fatal hour which to every man is one pregnant with all important, incomprehen~ible and infinite consequences.
Death wealth cannot bribe, power cannot resist, beauty cannot charm, nor
dignity deter. Superior alike to the monarch and slave, an intruder in the palace
as well as the cottage, the royal robes of majesty and the rags of begl!'Bry are
equally introductory to the.shroud. How important, then, becomes the duty incumbent on every Mason to exemplify with fidelity the usti and purpose of the
.
common gavel as taught in speculative Masonry.
We recommend that pages be appropriately inscribed in our record in honor of
the memory of our deceased brethren, and as an incentive to duty to all who may
look upon them in after years.

a

The following assurance of assistance in the good cause we quote from the address of the President of the Kansas Masonic Home.
At the Wichita meetin!l W orthy Grand Matron T&KSj:.OT, of the Grand Chap·
ter of the Order of the Eastern Star, was present with several other members of
the Order.
· The Worthy Matron made an addreBB to the Board, in which she referred particularly to the intense interest manifested by the ladieff of the several Chapters
of the Eastern Star in the immediate establishment and location of the Masonic
Home, and, in behalf of the Chapter of the Order in this State, asked the privilege and pled!led the Mas()nic H ome that the Order of the Eastern Star desired
and proposed to take upon itself the expense of providing for the furnishing of
the Masonic Home.

112

Proceedings of the

[Oct. S, ·

The Grand Lodge reduiied the tax upon its membership, as the same appears
on the annual report of the Lodge, to fifty cents per capita.
M. ". W. ·. A. L. CALLAHAN 1·epresents the Grand Lodge of California near the
Grand Lodge of Kansas.
Kansas bears upon its roll 348 active Lodges, with a membership of l9,211
Master Masons.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by Bro. MATTHEW M. MILLER; it
is a full,. comprehensive and very ably written review of .the doings of sixty Grand
Bodies of Frei'! and Accepted Masons.
Bro. MILi.ER indulges freely in criticism of the legislation of the several Grand
:Bodies, wherever he believes it necessary in vindication of the original groundwork
and plan of Masonry; and, although he pleads guilty to youth and inexperienoe,
he certainly wields his pencil with the skill and force of a veteran.
Under Arizona, Bro. MILLER demurs to the aSBertion of Grand Master ORHSBY
that ·"If the world had never had any religion other than the teachings of
Masonry it would be as well off as it is to-day if every one lived up to its prect'pts.
He says:Masonry, as now exemplified in the Lodges of the American Rite, notwithstanding the barely concealed slurs of loose speaking and inconsiderate votaries
does not offer a plan of salvation for a future life, nor does it claim to teach any'.
thing beyond a •ystem of morality. He who by wide-sweeping statements such
as those above quoted, raises the general question of the worth or wurthles•n'ess of
religion as com pared to Masonry, is doing the latter no good by his assertion and
only rai.es th!! qu.estion. in. th:e minds of profanes, w~ether it is a right thing for
those who believe m Christiamty to ally themselves with an Order for which those
entitled to speak and represent it make such preposterous and senseless claims.
Under Canada, Bro. MILLER quotes the approval of Bro. DRUMMOND of the
District Deputy system of Canada, thoroughly approving it as the best system yet
devised, and workinll in a manner not surpa886d, if equaled, in any other jurisdiction ; and he adds these words :We quote these words of Bro. DRUMMOND approvingly, as does the committee
not only because we have been impressed with the character of.the painstaking
work of the District Deputies of Canada. but also because Bro. DRUMMOND gives
such emphatic endorsement to the necessity of Lodge visitation, and to the fact
that the system referred to is the best yet devised. The Grand Masters of Kansas, who hav!l from ti.me to time recommende? this system, only to see ~t ~uthlessly
slaughtered m committee or Grand Lodge, Wlll read the words of the distmguished
correspondent of Maine with the highest personal gratification.
U oder Connecticut, Bro. MILLER says of the lamented Bro. JOSEPH KELWGG
WHEBLER:~he writer 1;0ou~s tbe ~sss of a ~ersonal · friend. The mementos be has
received from him will be laid away with those from Pnra and MORRIS and he
will ever remember with pleasurable gratitude that Connecticut does hon~r to his
memory in electing as his successor one whose character, standing and ability are
on a par with that of his illustrious predecessor. "The king is dead· long live the
kin&"! ''. is beard in the realm of Masonry, as well as that of earthly rulers. The
best wi~h we have for Past Grand Meter JOHN H. BARLOW, the new Grand Secretary, is that he may not: fall below the standard of excellence raised by his predecessor.

In reviewing California, Bro. MILLER quotes freely, and has abundant praise
for the sentiments of Grand Master ORME. He writes:Bro. ORME makes a bugle recall to the standard of Masonry which. may well
be heeded by those who have lost their alignment to the true principles of the
· Craft.

<lrrrrui, £od.ge of Oalifornia.

1895.J

. In commenting upon the recommendation of Grand Master ORME for the abolition of the affiliation fee, a.nd ·in favor of the entire freedom of membership to.
any Mason of "good report," Bro. MILLER says :The Grand Master discusses the evil of exacting an affiliation fee as productive
of non-affiliation, and argues against the requirement that a petitioner for affiliation
shall pass the ordeal of a secret ballot, and in favor of permitting any Mason of good
report, and coming well recommended, "to affiliate with the Lodge of his choice,
or charges should be preferred against him, and his status determined on a trial by
his brethren." The last suggestion sounds well, but it will not always work well.
A man may come under the tongue of good report a.nd be well recommended, and
yet have within him the germs of unrest and inbarmony sufficient to set a conclave of angels at work ripping each other up the back. These facts may be
known to only. one or two members, and possibly nothing tangible could be
obtained as a basis for charges; and yet the advent of that member might create
as big a sensation and be productive of as great disruption to that Lodge as the
boosting of a certain lady into society once had upon President J ACKBON's cabinet.
Our Grand Lodge action in reference to a Home, the action of our Boards of
Relief, and the address of Grand Orator Judge SEARLS are heartily commended.
Bro. MILLER quotes freely from the reports of our Committee on Jurisprudence,
and, barring bis suggestion "to feed them on their own prescription in a single
case," his verdict is one of approval.
In answer to your inquiry, Bro. MILLER, allow your correspondent to state that
your Representative, Bro. WILLIAM VANDERHURST, of Salinas, is always on band:
his attendance is so regular that his absence would be remarked.
In his opening Bro. MILLER refers to the writer as "our youthful brother of
California." You have no idea, Bro. MILLER, of the satisfaction and delight these
few words convey. '.l.'o be called "able and pro!ound" is exhilarating, but "our
youthful brother "-yes, "it might have been."
'l'he M. ·• W. ". JAMES H. McCALL was elected Grand Master. R. ·- W. ".
ALBERT K. WILSON was elected Grand Secretary. Chairman of Corn!8pondenoe,
Bro. MATTHEW M. MILLER, of Topeka.
The next communication of the Grand Lodge will be held at Wichita, February
19, 1896.
KENTUCKY.
The Grand Lodge of Kentucky held its ninety-fifth Annual Communication
October 16, 1894,-M. ·• w... JAMES WILLIAM STATON, Grand Master; R. ·. W. ·•
HENRY BANNISTER GRANT, Grand Secretary. Three hundred and ninety.five
Lodges were represented. Fifteen l'ast Grand Masters were present, also the
Representatives of thirty-three sister Grand Jurisdictions.
Kentucky has .459 Lodges on the roll, with a membership of 18,077 Master
Masons.
The opening page salutes us with the portraits of four gallant young menPast Grand Masters all-the Most Worshipfuls JAMKS WILLIAM HOPPER, BERNARD GRATZ WATT, J. SPEED SMITH and JAMES WILLIAM STATON, the Grand
Master of 1894.
Grand Master STATON delivered bis Annual Address. The brethren are welcomed to the duties devolving upon the General Assembly of Masons, and thanks
returned to the giver and preserver of light and life for His continued care and
protection.
Before proceeding to the report of his official acts he directed the attention of
the assembled brethren to the vacant places in their fraternal circle; the death of
Past Grand Master Emv ARD B. JONES was sorrowfully mentioned, and affection-

8

114

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

ate reference made to his Masonic character and service. Many other faithful
brethren bad fallen during the year who would be referred to by the Committee
on Necrology, and pages set aparl in thejournal devoted to their memories.
The Grand Master joined sister jurisdictions in sympathy with those whose
brightest lights have been e~tingulshed and whose altars are clothed in mourning
for the faithful brethren with whom they have shared the joys and sorrows of
prosperity and adversity, who have passed to their final rest.
In recounting his official acts the Grand Master, in speaking of visitations,
says:On my pilgrimage to the Conclave of the Grand Commandery at Paducah, I
had the honor of having the "Little Comruandery" of the Masonic Widows' and
Orphans' Home of Kentucky, under the command of my friend and brother, H.
B. GRANT, as my escort. You may be assured that this honor was more highly
appreciated by me than to have been escorted by De Molay Commandery; No. 12,
which has won such distinction all over this li:'reat land for its efficient drill and
display, as well as its excellent work and just appreciation of knightly virtues.
Long live "Little Commandery" to "form escort to the Grand Master of
Masons in Kentucky.
The Grand Master had not been able to make as many visitations as he
desired or intended. In such as he made his reception was most cordial, and he
found the condition of the Lodges to be prosperous. ·
All applications for special dispensations to waive the usual time in conferring
degrees were denied.
The Grand Master suspended a Master from exercising the functions of his
office for using blaaphemous and slanderous language toward two of the. brethren
of his Lodge.
Most of the ruling by the Grand Master is determined by the local law of
Kentucky, and concerns only that jurisdiction. We note one of ·general importance:Decided : That election by the deposit of one ballot is not correct, and should
not be resorted to in subordinate Lodges.
And we think the same a safe rule to follow.
The Grand Master says, in reference to physical qualifications:I liave received several letters requesting dispensations to confer the degrees on
maimed candidates. I have simply cited the applicants to the provisions of the
Constitution as defined in Article VIII, Section 4, and said tp them that the Lodge
must be the judge of the qualifications of candidates, having that provision of the
Constitution before them. I am not an advocate of tbe " perfect youth " doctrine.
. I believe io the internal and not the external qualifications of a man to fit him for
Masonry, but at the same time I am not an advocate for committing our mysteries
to those who cannot teach, or be taught our means of recognition.
All right, Bro. STATON, we think the only safe rule is that the petitioner shall
be able to comply "lireraUy" with the requirements of the several degrees.
The Grand Master refused a dispensation to a Lodge, who wished to parlicipate in the exercises of Decoration Day, on the ground that it was not a Masonic
festival ..
The Grand Master says good words for the Home and its management, all of
which the Masonic Home of Kentucky richly deserves. As a Pioneer in its special
work, it created a desire in all other jurisdictions to emulate its e!:ample-God
bless the Kentucky Home.
The Grand Leeturer made a report, giving the condition cif the jurisdiction
g~nerally, without much specific information.

1895.]

Grand .Lodge of California.

115

Past Grand Master J. SPUD SMITH offered the following preamble and resolution, which was unanimously adopted:WHEREAS, The one hundredth anniversary of the establishment of the Grand
Lodge of Kentucky-the first west of the Alleghanles-will occur in 1900; and
WHEREAS, It is deemed expedient that a celebration commensurate with the
importance of the occasion be held.
Ruolwd, That the Grand Master appoint a committee of five who shall formulate and present to the Grand Lodge, at its next session, for its approval, a plan
for the proper celebration of our Masonic centennial.
The Committee on J:urisprudence, W. LARUE THOMAS, Chairman, referring to
the Mississippi pro.p osition for a uniform regulation in certain matters, report as
follows:-

In regard to the circular received by this Grand Lodge (which is filed herewith,
and which we desire made a part of this report) we say : Kentucky has always,
in its Masonry, maintained the doctrine of territorial jurisdiction, and accorded to
other Grand Lodges, what it has reserved to itself, the right to pass upon the fitness of all candidates for initiation or membership. The child of Virginia, and
the mother Lodge of the west and south, this Grand Lodge has never claimed a
power to act outside its own jurisdiction. It will not aBBume to control the action
of Mississippi, nor will it allow its own action to be controlled by any other body
of Masons. Recognizing the fraternal feeling which prompted the Grand Lod~e
of MiBSissippi to issue the circular referred to, the Grand Lodge of Kentucky
respectfully declines to take any action thereon.
The receipts for the Past year were $7,988.00; the disbursements for the past
year were $8,466.96; assets of the Grand Lodge, stock bonds, etc., $15,096.02.
Past Grand Master W. W. CLARK.£, Chairman, presents the Report on Correspondence, a very able review of the proceedings of fifty-four Grand Lodges, concluding with an analysis and examination of the claims of perpetual jurisdiction.
Bro. CLARKE treats it as a dieturbing element which demands the patient consideration of the jurisprudence of the Mallonic fraternity, to the end that we shall all
agree to the plain proposition, that "That which is legally done when done is
legal anywhere."
.
Bro. CLARKE quotes from the address of Grand Master GBITHAN, and commends his opinions and recommendations in the matters of charity brought before
him for executive action, and also in his decisions, especially noting his reply to
St. Helena Lodge in the matter of Jurisdiction.
Bro. CLARKE says: "Of a number of decisions made by the Grand Master,
this committee can find but one which, according to its opinion, is not good Masonic law." As condensed by.the Committee on Jurisprudence, it is as follows:No Lodge in this State bas authority to waive jurisdiction over an applicant
for degrees whose application has been rejected by it.
Before commenting, Bro. CLARKE pays this graceful compliment (and we think
a deserved one) to our Chairman, Past Grand Master WILLIAM C. BELOHER :The Committee on Jurisprudence, in an elaborate, and in his opinion the ablest
report on Masonic jurisprudence this writer haR ever read, and in which, as he
believes, it makee but the one mistake here alluded t o, sustains the decision of the
Grand Master.
The provision excepted to is in the words used in regard to the advancement of
an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft, in a Lodge other than that in which they
are made, to wit :
No Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft shall be advanced to a higher degree
"in any Lodge" other than that in which he shall have received those or either of
those degrees, unless bi_the official consent of such I.odge, if it be then in exist·
eiice and be within the United States of America or the Dominion <>f Canada.

116

Proeeeding.<; of the

[Oct. 9,

In hie comments Bro. CLABl[E says: "It is not claimed that this decision is
not according to the Constitution of the Grand Lodge of California. It is objected
to because it is not Masonic law, even if embodied in that instrument." Bro.
CLABl[ll: allows our claim when he concedes the opinion to be in accordance with
the requirements of the Oalifornia Code.
In regard to the committee's report on the representative question, Bro. CLABUll
writes:This committee deals with another question, indeed with many others that
recei".e the he~y assent of yo1~r reviewer! and he regrets that he cannot ;eproduce its report m full 1 but he will not refram from quoting a part of its report on
the que&~ion of Grana Representatives. Grand "laeter G~ITMAN1 during the year,
had received from Grand Master AB!iOLD, of Pennsylvama, notice of Wlthdrawal
of all hia Representatives near other Grand Lod~ · The Committee on Jurisprudence deals with the matter in the following felicitous manner·:
Relative to a communication from the Grand Master of Pennsylvania, announc·
ing hie withdrawal of his Representative near this Grand L~dge.
Bro. ATKINSON, a member of this committee and a Past Grand Master of this
Grand Lodge, has been received by ue and reported in our Proceedings oince the
date of his appointment in 1889, as the Representative of the Grand Lodge of
Pennsylvania, and not until this communication, addressed to dur Grand Master
was placed in our hands.I. had we the slightest suspicion that he was in fact only
'
'
the representative of a urand Mast-er.
After quoting the report of the committee, Bro. CLABl[E remarks, .-, Grand
Master ARNOLD had evidently been doing some forgetting."
M. •. W. ·.HENBY H. HOLEMAN was elected Grand Master; R. ·. W. ·. HENRY
B. GRANT was re-elected Grand Secretary. Chairman of Correspondence, Past
Grand Master W. W. CLABl[ll:, Owensboro.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the ~ity of Louisville, October
15, 1895.
LOUI~IANA.

The Grand Lodge of Louisiana held its eighty.third Annual Communication in
the city of New Orleans, February 11, 1895,-the .M. ·. W. ·. GEORGE H. PACKWOOD, Grand Master ; the R. '. W. ·. RICHARD LAMBERT, Grand Secretary. Si~ty­
seven Lodges were represented. There were also present three Past Grand
Masters, and the Representatives of thirty sister Grand Jurisdictions.
Past Grand Master J. Q. A. FELLOWS ie the Representative of California near
the Grand Lodge of Louisiana.
The Grand Master gave a cordial greeting to the assembled brethren, and proceeded to deliver hie Annual Addres~. With much feeling he called attention to
the vacant places caused bv death, and paid tribute of love and remembrance to
those who had gone before. Of sister jurisdictions, he said : "A large number
of distinguished Masons closed their labors on earth called by the Grand Master
to the Grand Lodge above; let us emulate theit virtues and benefit by the
example of their good deeds. "
The Grand Master made forty.two visitations during the year and reported the
Lodges ~enerally in good condition.
The Grand Master has, by dispensation, permitted the continuation of the
joint occupancy of Masonic halls with other societies.
The Grand Master reported the continued ill health of the eminent brother,
Past Grand Master JOHN Q. A. F11:Lwws, and expressed his veneration and
sympathyforthatdistinguished MRBon, whereupon the Grand Lodge unanimoualv
adopted the following :-

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

117

The Grand Lodge, in Gra.nd Annual Communication convened, adopts the followinlt' minute :The Grand Lodge learns with sorrow that serious sickness prevents the presence
of M. '. W. ·. J. Q. A, FELLOWS, l'ast Grand Master, at this communication.
The brethren unite in prayer to the Supreme disposer of events that he will vouchsafe his ble·ssing upon the means used for the alleviation of the pains of · the well
beloved brother, and pray that he may be spared to us for many years yet to come.
The Grand Lodge in•tructs the Grand Secretl\l'y to communicate this minute
to M. '. W. ·. Bro. FELLOWS,
Reception of Representatives:In accordance with the notice given at last evening's session a list of the Grand
Representativds from Grand Bodies to this· Grand Lodge was called, who took
p"8ition west of the altar, facing the east, when they were addressed and welcomed
by the M. ·. W. '. Grand Ma•ter in fraternal terms, and desired to conve;r to their
several Grand Lodges the hearty and cordial wishes of the Grand Lodge of
Loui•iana, and after being saluted with the Grand Honora they were invited to
the East. Reply was made by Past Grand Master SAMUEL M. TODD, who, after a
few brief remarks in behalf of the Grand Lodges represented at this Grand East,
requested W. ·.Bro. G11:0BGE J. PINCKARD, Representative of the Grand Lodge of
England, to respond for that Grand Body, which he did in his usual happy man·
ner, after which the representatives wnre seated upon the dais.
The Grand Lodge of Louisiana has upon its roll 125 chartered Lodges, with two
under dispensation, with an active membership of 5,260 Master Masons.
The Report ~n Correspondence is presented by the vetera.n J. Q. A. FELLOWS.
Bro. FELLOWS fresents his ideas in a paper as remarkable in its make up as it is
eminent and convincing in its logic. If the Correspondent lives that can make
the topical system a success, Bro. FELLOWS is that Correspondent.
The Grand Representative question is fully considered by quotations from
Alabama; New York, Pennsylvania, Tennesaee, Illinois, Vermont and Kentucky.
In conclusion, .upon this subject, Bro. FELLOWS writes:your committee agree with this action of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky and
endorse every expression of Grand Master STATON of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, and recommeni.l the adoption of the last two of the resolutions.
{ls to the first, we have nothing to repeal, for the reason that there is no regulation
or edict of this Grand Lodge, now in force, authorizing the appointment of Grand
Representatives or the reception of others from our sister Grand Lodges.
The whole system, as at present in VOfl.'Ue, is not only useless, hut is actually in
many instances a detriment. 'l'he writer, holding six of these commissions, one
dating from 18ii8, certainly can claim exemption from any personal feeling in favor
of the abolishment of the sy•tem of Grand Representatives.
Under Necrology we quote this interesting sketch of Bro. FBIZULL of Tenne88ee :. M. '. W. ·• Bro. JOHN FRIZZELL, Grand Master in 1858 and 1859; died at Nashville, 30th of Novt'!mber, 1894, in the sixty-sixth year of his age. He presented
his petition to his Lodge on his twenty-first birthday, September 8, 1858. He
served as Granp Secretary from 1868 to the time of his death. The confidence and
regard of his brethren was manifested bv electing him at different times to preside
over every Masonic Grand Body in the State of Tennessee. His national re,1mtation led to his election as General Grand High Priest of the General Grand
Chapter at its triennial session in Buffalo in 1877. The writer last met Bro. FBIZ·
ZELL in Denver iu 1893, being associated with him on the Committee of Templar
Jurioprudence of the Grand Encampment. We then anticipated meeting in
Boston in August next; but alas ! not only has Bro. FBIZZll:LL left us, but also
Bro. RooT, of Arkansa•, two of the six members of the committee.
In hie review of Maine Bro. FELLOWS quotes Bro. DRUMMOND, who, under
Georgia, in re~ard to non-payment of dues, writes:-

118

Proceedings -0/ the

[Oct. 9,

Our Grand Lodge Constitution does not allow the suspension or expulsion,
from th.£ righta of Masonry, of a member for non-pa:yment of dues. We assume
that a brother is expelled in Georgia only upon due trial, upon cha~es, the gist of
which is that he willfully fails to perform a Mruionic duty which he 1s fully able to
perform; if so, it is not so bad · as in some jurisdictions (like California), where
they suspend a brother without trial or even the filing of charges. If one brother
· kills another he cannot be suspended without due trial; it is only Masons who
are unable or unwilling to belong to a Lodge that are suspended from all Masonic
rights without trial.
·
It may be that we are too strongly imbued with the idea, "Once a Mason
always a Mason ; " but it does seem to us that, under any circumstances, eT;pulaWn.
for non-payment of dues belittles Masonry. We bold that the privilege of being a
Mason is a very high one, of which one should be deprived only for a very serious
offense; by deprivation of membership one loses Lodge rights and privilegee, as he
should if he declines to pay for them; but when we expel ont' for non-payment it
seems to us that the value we place upon being a Mason is measured by the few
dollars of his arrears. Or else the punishment is grossly disproportionate to the
offense."
.
Bro. FBLL()WS quotes Bro. CUNNINGHAM of Ohio upon the effect of stringent
laws against non-affiliation, who says:The ~eat army of non-affiliates in aii Grand Jurisdictions of the United States
is an evidence that iron-clad re~lations to force membership are not a success
wherein ena.cted for the accomplishment of the desired end. A~ compulsory mem'.
!>ership in.all ju~sdictions. in which it is e_nforced has no~ ~ad the effect of lessen- .
1ng the evil, the inference 1s therefore plam that the solution of the question baa
not yet been accomplished. And one of the greatest factors in that connection is
excessive annual dues. Better far have larger fees for the degrees, if the result is
even fewer members, with but nominal annual dues, than the ever increasing list
Of unaffiliated and expelled members due to that cause. Expulsion for non-payment of dues, by its becoming of such common occurrence, has only had the effect,
in some respects a.t least, of detracting from the dread of the dishono# or stigma
·
usually attached to that punishment.
Indefinite swlpension or striking from the roll would, in the end, doubtless be
more effective; and certainly more in accordionce with the fraternal teachings of
Freemasonry; and in tbia connection also a provision for the establishment of 'a
memberahir at large,' with appropriate dues therefor, to be used by the Grand
Lodge in its charities, for those brethren who, for many causes, do not wish to
affiliate with a Lodge within whose juriadiction ther may reside, would, in the
opinion of your committee, be an effort in the right direction to lessen the evil
Bro. FBLWWS quotes the opinions of our leading jurists on this disputed question, and under California says : CALIFORNIA: Advance sheet of the proceedings of this Grand Lodge, through
the kindness of Past Grand Master BRLCHEB, arrived in timf' to stop the .Press on
this report and add the following important presentation by him as Cha1rmrm of
the Committee on Jurisprudence, of this subiect. We may add here, that the
question will undoubtedly be lairl before our Committee on Jurisprudence, from
which a report may be expected. This precludes the writer from expressing here
any opinions or reflections, other than the most casual, upon the question. He
thmks the importance of the question justifies him in laying before the Grand
Lodge most that has been written upon the subject. As a member of the Jurisprudence Committee he may have something to sa1. We will now proceed to
make the excerpts from the Proceedingd of the Grand Lodge of California.
As introductory, we extract from the report of M. ·. W. ·. Bro. BELOHBB for his
committee, on a question of juriediction, presented by Grand Master 0BHE, in his
Annual Address.
Bro. FELLOWS quotes in full the opinion of the committee upon the decision of
Grand Master ORME in the case of WILLIAM NICHOLS, Jr., called for by Olay
Lodge, No. 101. In this opinion the question of perpetual jurisdiction is fully
considered. Bro. FELWWB continues :-

1895.]

Grand Lod,ge of California.

119

On the Mississippi propoaition, M. •. W. ·.Bro. BELOHBR, from the same committee, made a lengthy report, and when we consider the importance of the sub·
ject"and great and acknowledged ability of Bro. BELCHER as a Masonic Jurist, we
copy the whole of his report :
The great length of these reports forbids the re-publication at this time; they
may be found in Grand Lodge proceedings of laat year, 1894, pages 789 and 802.
Of the Grand Master's prerogative to make Masons at sight, Bro. FELLOWS
writes:The Grand Lodl\"e of Louisiana settled this question, so far as she was concerned, in 1853. Thi~ was the first Grand Lodge in which the writer had a vote.
A' Report on Correspondence was read by Past Grand Master (}BOOE, sustaining
the action of Grand Master HYAMS, of California, in making a Mason at eightconsideration of the question was ·postponed and the report ordered printed, that
•ll could see what waa said, and after a prolonged discussion, the report was eis&j(reed to, and the _power of Grand Mastera to make Masons at sight was denied
by a vote of the Grand Lodge. The doctrine, as then determined, has ever since
been held in Louisiana.
Of the temperance (or rather intemperate) legislation of the present day, Bro.
FELLOWS writes :We bave heretofore expressed the opinion that Grand Lod!!'es can not add to
the obligations of Masons, by any new requirement, without viola.ting the Landmarks and changing the original design of Freemasonry, and hence, that such
legislation as has taken place in general jurisdictions on the saloon question,
among others. is not binding upon Masons and should not have·been enacted. As
far back as 1867 the Committee on Masonic Law and Jurisprudence of our Grand
J,odge reported, and its report was adopted, that the only written Landmarks are
those in the "Ancient Charges," and the unwritten, those contained in the ceremonies of initiation and the ties which bind us together ae Masons ; nor ia it
pt"<YJ>f!T', by lt.giBlation, to make any new obligations, with penalties attached.
M. •• W.·. GEO. H. PACKWOOD was re-elected Grand Master; R. ·• W.·.
RICHARD LAMBERT was re-elected Grand Secretary. Committee on Correspond·
ence, Bro. J. Q. A. FELLOWS, Chairman.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of New Orleans,
February 10, 1896.
MAINE.
The Grand Lodge of Maine held its seventy-sixth Annual Communication iu the
oity of Portland, May 7, 1895,-the M.·. W.·. HoBACE H. BUBBANK, Grand Master;
the R.·. W.·. STEPHBN BBRBY, Grand Secretary.
Elegant portrait.a of Grand Master BURBANK and Past Grand Master HBNRY R.
TAYLOB, on steel, are published on the first and second pages of this volume.
There were present ten Past Grand Masters, eighteen Past Grand Wardens and
the Bepresenta\ives of forty sister Grand Jurisdictions, Hon. HENRY R. TAYLOR
being the Representative of California. One hundred and eighty.three Lodges were
represented.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Masterdelivered his Annual Address. After a cordial greeting to each
he extended a royal welcome to the asiiembled brethren, 11.nd expressed the gratitude
to the Heavenly Father for a continuance ot his blessings. He said that on June 1st
the Grand Lodge would complete its seventy-fifth year of existence, reaching a milestone of interes\ in its history, and giving an opportunity for an interesting review
of the pltBt. In his interesting report the Grand Master observes : "Our past is
secure and we should not forget the debt we owe to our Masonic auoestors for the

120

Proceedings of the

(Oct. 9,

:;easures which they garnered for and bequeathed to us. Leaders in a time when
cost ~ore thl\o money to be true Masons, they merit oar best tribute of esteem "
!nd this brings to his mind the death roll of the year, npoo which he finds engrav~d
e names or some of the "leaders" who were trne Masons when it cost more than
;oney to be known as such in Maine. He names from the roll of honor Grand
~ebasteurtoer FhR;imERIO.B: ~ox and Past Grand Master ALBlmT MoasE, and pays just
t r1 u
t e1r memories.
d~;l also_ mentions wit~ fraternal atfection the long list of names of the eminent
ustr1ou_s de~d of sister jurisdictions, recording the sympathy of the Grand
an
Lodge of Mame with the affiicted jurisdictions. He closes with this reference :"Yes, the dead are everywhere!
• phe mo_untain side, the sea, the woods profound.
...1 t e wide earth-the fertile and the fairIs one vast burial ground."

.

In re~onntlng his official acts the Grand Master made special reference to tho
procee~mg~ and results of nin!) Conventions held at different points iu the State for
Instruction JD Masonic work daring the year.
?all attention to the following endorsement or the Grand Lecturers in contra·
d"
. is nct100 to .t~e cypher dispatch system which seems to be coming "epidemic ,,
10 many Iocaht1es :-

:e

·
·
Y oar Grand Lecturers after long ex
are verl positive in th~ir be~ief
that no system of impartin'g ritualistic inst~::~~noeh
0
m Mame
employed
6.8 ever een
which comes near equaling t h
0
tions of the State which can b~ ~~~=~d~die ~holdmgdcgnventions in different sec.
as well
as by District Deputie11. Since its fntrodu~t~onc~: a:ot" rethre°te°f Lo_dges;_
0

;e~~~d~~ lm~~~ya~~a~~O:g:~~:d~~i~he 0~ifa~~s ~:ut~~i~~:h~~~~i!g f1i!~~~~:iym::t

o:

more than local importance were required of the Grand Master
No de?fslons
•
Two dispensations were granted for the formation of new Lad.ires
the
to
appeal
interesting·
most
a
with
address
his
closed
Master
Grand
The
brethren t.o observe in their daily lives the obligations of the Fraternity in th
e practlce of the cardinal virtues of temperance and morality.
Rast Grand Master ENos WABGATT, of Florida, was introduced by Bro. DB(])[·
HOND and welcomed to the Grand Lodge by the Grand Master
The Committee on Returns report 192 chartered Lodges , ;ith a membership of
21,809.
The hour ass~ned f~r the celebration of the seventy.fifth anniversary of the
.
Gran~ Lodge havmg amved, after a prt>lude by the Grand Organist• the foll owmg
exercises took place:Fir~t A historical address by Past Grand Master EDWABD p • BuRNHAH, the'
same being a hist.a · d 11 of the settlement and progress of the
Province of
. ry ID eta
.
Mame from the 1ssuan~e of the charter therefor by Charles I, King of En land in
'
g
1639, to the organlzat100 of the Grand Lodge in 1820• thence t o 1"t s prese.nt
and
.
.
fifth
ty
'or
lengthy·
too
but
paper
interesting
most
A
history.
its
of
year
• seven ·
,, 0 or ·
'
transfer,
Cheerful Song "
~:?o:d· ReMu.si? by the Masonic quartet, "Come Let Us Join inbisto
'
I I
m101scences of Past Grand Master Hlllil! CHA!!ll-a
1r •
r ca rememmembers.
early
of
brance
•
·
After more mueic by the quartet• en tit! e d " M asomc
Bemmlscence s " by B
Ro
DRin!~::~s, the oration of the day was delivered by Past Grand Master'Josu a ~:
Bro. DROlUIOND, in speaking of the seventy.fifth an~iversary, the progress and
result of the years of labor, tr~11oted his s11bject under tbe heads of Principles:

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California.

121

The Troe Doctrine of Masonic Relier; Masonry Always the Same; the Ritual;
Fratern ity; Personal Conduct and the Ancient Usages of the Craft; and it is needless to say delivered a splendid treatise upon the principles and groundwork or the
original plan of Masonry.
Bro. PLmn1EB, of the Trestle Board, having published this most able an'1 inter·
esting paper for the benefit of his readers, we will not mar its beauties by quoting
from it here .
The following action we consider equitable and just:Bro. WILLIAH R. G. EBTRS submitted the following :Bro. JouN C. GRIFFIN having some seven years ago been rejected in Somerset
Lodge, No. 34, and nearly five years afterwards baviog been made a Master Masoo
in Ashlar Lodge, Toronto, Ontario, in accordaoce with the law and regulations of
that jurisdiction, where he was then re•iding, and who by our law in such cases is
now deprived of all Masonic rights and privileges owing to the change or residence,
I move that the Grand Ma•ter he empowered and instructed, if in bis judgment he
becomes satisfied the candidate was guiltleRs of any deceit or fraud, to allow the
said Bro. Jom1 C. GBIFFIN Masonic recognition in this jurisdiction, where he now
resides.
The motion was duly seconded, and was adopted •
Full reports were received from the iwenty-foor District Deputy Grand Masters
of the twenty-four districts into which the jurisdiction is divided. They are not
informal reports made to " fill in," but a working record of the duties performed by
twenty-four faithful brethren for the honor and reputation of the Grand Lodge of
Maine.
The death-roll of the Grand Lodge of Maine for the year numbers the names or
two hundred and one brethren.
Grand Lodge receipts for the year were $6,444.45. (;rand Lodge disbursement s
for the year were $6,650.58. Amount of Grand Lodge Charity Fund, $26,093.47.
The Report on Corresponden ce is as usual by Bro. JosuH H. Dsu:iaroND, and, it
seems to us, Is one of his best. Bro. Dam1ua10ND gives some twelve pages to Oalifornia, the quarter part being to the consideration of the Reports on Jurisprudenc e
by our late Bro. B&LCHEB, Chairman. It was only the 19th of the last montll
(August) that Bro. BELCHER sent words of esteem and freternal greeting to Bro.
DRUMMOND, and others whom he bad hoped to meet at Boston, by the writer. The
messages were delivered, but even at that moment the messenger was winging bis
flight from the eternal world with the order to strike our brother from the rolls of
the living. Bro. BBLCHER's death ocourrcil September 1st, and he passed to eternal
rest with the love and esteem of all who knew him. We will not anticipate the
·
action of the Grand Lodge of California by saying more at this time.
affiliation
the
that
Osm:11:,
Master
Grand
of
opinion
the
Bro. DBUHllOND approves
fee should be abolished, and he advances the following strong reasons for the proposition. He says:There is no escape from this reasoning, especially in California, where a nonwith
afliliated Mason has no Masonic right, save to apply to a Lodge for membership he
is
the liability of bt>iog rejected by a single vote. He is worthy to be a Mason, or
be
not; if he is not worthy, he should be expelled ; if he Is worthy. be Is entitledis,tothat
able to perform his duty as a matter of r ight. The logic of the California law
a Mason sho11ld be able or his own motion and without expense to join a Lodge. and
the Lodge should have no power to prevent his performin,r hi• duty-especia lly a duty,
the non-performance of which makes him an outcast. We think that this serious
departure from the old ways and the sinkin,r of the fraternal character of .Masonry
into mere busines•, is the cause above all others which retards the growth ot
Masonry in that jurisdir.tion.
The Grand Master's second point is, that the Lodges should he allowed to spend
funds for ·refreshments in order to cultivate sociability, more intimate acquaintance
and consequent fraternity. We agree, except that we hold it unlawful tor a Lodge
to encroach upon an established Charity Fund for that purpose. We know or no

122

1895.]

Proeeedings of the

[Oct. 9,

law, and we don't believe there sbonl
does a sum to be devoted to procu ringd be any law, again st a Lodg e's ioclodiog in its
refres hmen ts for the Lodge accor ding
old custom.
to the
Bro. DRUJOIOND says of Bro. WILLI.lit
c. Bll:LOHBR:He repor ted a large numb er of deciei
ooP,
which are discussed by the Committee
on Joris prude nce with great abill ty-ao
The case, which formerly happ ened ind yet we cann ot agree in all its conclusions.
Maine, very frequ ently er.ose
A resident of that State for mRDY
rnia.
went on a visit to his birthp laceloinCalifo
and while there was made a Masoyears
Engla nd,
n
in
a
regul
ar Lodg e; there were other oomplica·
tioos, which, howe ver, do not alfect
recog nized in Calif ornia !" The law the main qnest ioo, which wa", "Cou ld be be
in California, by expre ss provision of
etitat ion, le, that be canno t be recog
the Con·
Lodge having jurisd iction of him, beennized fully until he shall have appli ed to the
for. the degre es. It wae corre ctly heldelecte d to memb ershi p and paid the full fee
wae made in a regnl ar Lodge, and, there that be was not a cland estine Mason as be
fore, did not requi re heali ng; illegal
ie by no mean s neces sarily cland
work
estine .
In regar d to ano\h er repor t of onr comm
ittee, Bro. DRUll[r.tOllD says :One decision wae made
was corre ct in the partic ular case, bn\
which the committee statedwhich
concerning
a basis of decision from which we utterl
y dissent.
He then quote s the repor t of our oomm
ittee, who eay :It le a fundamental law and a part of
"the
body of Masonry~· that no man can
lawfully be made a Mason who
not nneqnlvocally declare at the
belie f in God e.nd a fntnre existdoes
thres hold
ence,
and
that
no
inqui ry can be made of him a..bis
the creed , or sect, or society, or peopl
to
e
to
which
he
belon
gs or with which be
&ftilie.tes.
To the latter part of this repor t Bro.
DRUllr.tOND excep ts, and ~ommeoh there
on
as follo ws:·
The latter part of the pe.ragrapl1 qnote
d is stated altog ether too broe.d e.nd
not, in our jndgm ent, justified by anytl1
is
lng fonnd in the landmarks of Masoly,
The ea.me question was at issne in the
nry.
Morrison case from Utah ; and the cooRensus of opinion and decision was,
claimed to be religious or other wise,that membership in an e.ssociatioo, whet her
whose avowed princ iples and roles
sonal action are in ·conflict with the
of per·
fondameotal principles of Maso
a snfficient reaso n for refusing to e.ifmi
nry, is not only
that ir a .Mason joins sncb an assoc iationt him, bot an absolote di•qnaliflcatlon ; ·and
.While we depre cate the aese.ult, in , be ongb t to be expel led.
the name of Maeonrr,. upon the Ce.tb
made by a few crank s, of which there
olics,
mean ing breth ren unde r their lead, .is at least one in California, and many wellbersh ip in the o..tbolic Cbnrcb ough as. doing infinite mischief, we hold that memMasonry. It is the officially and pnblit to preve nt the admission of a candi date into
cly announced law of that churc h that.
olic cann ot be a Mason. Jr, there
a Oathfore, e. Catholic becomes a Maso
traito r to bis church or a traito r to Maso
n, he is eithe r a
any place in Masonry. We do. not, as nry, or to both; and no tr.ii tor to eithe r bas
IL Me.son, find any fanlt with
chnrc h ; we have no right to; that wonld
this
of that
cross the line of our law ; but law do
that when a man, by becoming a Maso
hold
n, must become eithe r a traito r or a we
he is no flt stone for our Temple.
hypo crite,
·
In commenting npon the comm ittee'
s repor t, referr ing to the use of Lodg
e fonds
for socie.I purpo ses, after giving the
exper ience of the Gran d Lodg e In the
premises, e.nd the history and effects of the
actio n taken at diller ent times "to dispe
nse
with refres hmen ts for Mocial pnrpo sea,"
be writ es:While onr Gran d Lodge bas stee.dily adher
ed to the doctr ine that
Lodg e are the accnmnlatioo (in
fnnds of e.
langu age of Portl and Lodg e) ofthe
pnrpo se of paying expen ses and the
" does for the
relieving the deatit.nte," and there
direc ted to other purpo ses, it
fore
should not be
bas
when the expen se has been kept winked at the custo m, which we have meot looed ,
n dne bounds. A little incid ent bas led
think that perha ps the failure to withi
rve more folly the social featu re of Masous to
may have been more lnjnrions toprese
nry,
institution than the reaso nable
Lodge fonds for refres bmen ls wonldthe
of curre nt
have lieen. Some one said (sarcnee
astica lly, per-

l

Grana Lo<lge of O<ilijornia.

123

.
h re when we 'have a
haps) "Oh, yes, we see many rmed
that we see at
bers d ~e~ra who beBrd the feed,'
rema rk, sa_ld
no other time. " A br~tber o ~ vBnce
ne,
o
old to assist io the work, even if I towere
"Tha t mean s me, and it is trne • ! .am
needed as I am not: I am fe.m1bar ~th the work, and I confeBB that I ~ave not
d for the sole purpo se of eeemg that,
enou gh intere st in it now, to attend d w
and going home ; bot.w hen wbe e~en t::if'~n i~ur to an boor at refreshm.ent,1: have
that
does
me good enoug h to last till the next
e. cha.nee for a chat with the ret .ren,,
time ; and I enjoy the whole ~ef1~9·era
tion
We shall watch tbeGpradtiOcmcefe will of this California resolntioo with much
note and repor t upon it.
intere st, and hope the
ran
.
.
.
• "Bro . DAVIBS is evide ntly not ID
In closing, Bro. DsUMHOND wr~te
accor d with
s• .
t
endin
Lodg
e
fonds
for
refres
h·
the Committee on Jnrisp rnden oe ID ·~e~a~
:nt oe 8b~ve al:ee.dy given so much space
men ts. We wonld quote from hl".1,
~k : wD vn~s we do not alway s agree with
\o that qnes uoo; and furth er!
h e b~o.( ~ tic~ of Bro. BELOHBR in
.Bro. BELOHBR, we most heart ilywhile
onr last
endor se t is a o .
repo rt):. .
of Califorma
Our Paet Gran d Milster WILLIA.Ill
is a grea t Jawy er•
and being a lover of the wb~e frdtel C. BE~~S:· lied bis gre~t tll.lents, freely, fol'
n~ty~
for
tb~~a
st
tbirty
-ftve years .
the• nee and benef it of onr f Jran.
many
e are of recor d e.nd ohe.llengeHis
..
·rman o ur1sprnodgnc
the ane.e
,
de~1S1ons, aslou r Cb
•
Jyt1cal acrut ny of \ ha1e Me.sonic critic• at home or a broad .
. te Bro Daor.tr.toNn's table of statistlcd.
As usual we appro pria
·
W.. STEPHEN
8
. M:. W.•. AUGUSTUS · FAsNBAM was elect ed Gran d Ma.~\er; B.·. • •
BERRY was re-ele cted Gran d Secre tary. Ob ·rman of Corre spond ence, M.·. W.·.
IU
JoSIAH H. Daur.tMOND, Portl and.

MAN ITOB A.
Id S
· 1 Communication for the purpo se. of
The Gran d Lodgte of
layin g the corne r s one o~t~~t~be~i~: P1~li~::i:ool on the 10th day of Augnet, 1893.
The stone was duly placed with accom
panyi ng cerem oo1es.
.

..,

.
.
The Grand Lodge held its nmet een~nnal Communication~.at the villag e ~of
4 -the ]I{: . W.·. DAVl~':J.a.r.tss Gona
u1,
Barift', Distr ict of Albe rta, Jone 13:
189 • S OTT Gran d Secre tary.l Thirty
-four
Gre.nd Master •, R •.• w•.• WtLL iill hll:ORGB 0
,
.
t two Past Gran d ]l{e.sterd, and.t
Lodg es were repre sente d. There ~e~e
en
.p r:sen
Repre senta tives of sister Gran d Jnr_1s
d1c:1one; b the Gra'l d Cbe.ple.io.'.; ;A deput
ation
The Grand Lodg e was open ;d wi:: t
L~ges ~n the north west territ ories were Inof Mast ers and Past Masters rom d
e.ddress of welcome to Albe rta on
trodn ced; and prese nted to the Gran L d
o ge an . .
.
·
r th · · teent b Annnal Commumr.a
uon.
the occas ion o
eir nrne
·
elo nent respo nse and
proce
eded
to
deliv er ~is AnThe Gran d Master made an · q.
.
mbled
breth
ren
and
iovok
mg the
8

:~ea~hs~:d:;~~e ~r~:; ~;::~~a:tg:tk~:::~~~::;{~:oa~:::~r ::~:;'.i:eo:e::~;::~ ';!t~

feeling to the faithful wor men w
muc
.
,:
highe r ., and bad passe d to their
·
etern al rellt.
summons ~o come op
d Past Gran d Senior Ward en JAMES
M.
· Past Oran d Master TH~b~~w~I~~:
;: names recorded upon the death roll of the
WBLLW~OD ~ere ;m;:a~e~ paid tribu te to the
lamen ted dead of sister jurisd iction s,
year.
be rim
·
b there and have left 08 their tasks
ll.nd said of all : " These men were
, and
onr ro
with these the lnspil'ation of their e:x&mb
ple.'~
h
sand miles in making official visits ·
The Gran d Me.ster trave led over t ree
ou
tlonR. But few decisions were aebked
0
an~ ~ ::~:; ~: ~::~ 1~:eor::~~;ion of
The Gran d Master me.kee t ese ~or,
avora
.
Me.sonry in Man itoba :-

1

0

124

Prvceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

Lectur es on .Masonic Symbolism have been
delive red In 'severa l Lodge s. Tbe
brethr en in a majori ty of onr Lodge s have attend
ed divine servic e in a body at least
once during tbe year. M.'. W.·. Bro. Rev. J.
been, throug h his eloque nt addres ses, teachin D. O'ME&RA., Past Grand Master , bas
g his brethr en their relatio n 11.nd duties
to tbe State. Throug h evenin gs devote d to mu•ic
and literat ure many Lodge s have
contri bnted to the pleasu res and culture
the comm unity. Others have esta.blished readin g anrl recrea tion rooms, where of
the
memb
ers ma.y •tady "those liberal
arts and scienceil which tend to polish
adorn the mind." The P11.st Master•'
Association establi shed in Winnipeg, forand
the
study
of
Ma.sonic questions, and tbe
forthe rance of every good cause that Masonry
ally of Grand Lodge . The establi shmen t of can aid, promis es to be a most useful
a
Maeon
's
Wal'd
in the Winnip eg Gen.era! Hospit al, and the work done for the Childr
over tbis vast Jurisdiction, not to speak of en's Home, and for the hospit als all
those private chariti es that worthy
Mason• deligh t to perform, show that many
undel'stand and practic e tb"t
"mora lity" whicb is the essenc e of Mason ry.
Detailed report s of the condit ion of their respec
tive distric ts were made by the
nine District Deputy Grand Master s, whicb
were referre d to the Board of Genera l
Pnrpo ses.
The Grand Lodge of Manito ba bas Qpon its roll
forty-e ight charte red Lodges, with
three under dispen sation, and a membe rship
of 2,278 Maste r Masqns.
The Comm ittee on the St.ate of Mason ry have
a few good words for the P11.st
.Maste1·'• A~sociation of Winnipeg. They say:Your commi ttee desires to call special attenti
on to a recent Masonic organize.lion,
destine d, it believes, to extend rapidly thronir
hout the jnrisdi ction. It refers to the
Past Maste rs' Association of the city of Winnip
eg, organi zed in Decem ber, 1893.
The object oft.he aosociation is "to develo p
and all matter s pertain ing thereto , by means and improv e the study of Freem asonry ,
ot
esssys
-or papers prP.pBl'ed by members of the a.~snciations, or by brethr en
memb ers but who have been appoin ted
by the associati<>n for that purpos e, and not
by
discuss
.questi ons, except matter s relatin g to the electio ions and debate s on all Masonic
n of officers in the Grand Lodge or
its snbord inate Lod~e~. Also to assem ble at
by the association prescr ibed, for the purpo• e such pel'iods from time to time, tu be
of confer ring tho clegr.ee of Past Maste r
upon those who have been eleete d to the office
of W.·. Maste r.
.
That the Pa•t Maste rs.of Winni peg are to be
highly comm ended for his step in
the interes ts ot Mason ry is the opinion of your
that the organi zation will spread throng bont commi ttee, and it expres ses the hope
the jurisdi ction.
The Gund Secret ary was instruc ted to convey
the congra tulatio ns of the Grand
Lodge to the Grand Lodge of Vermo nt on the
occasion of its centen nial annive rsary
then being oelebr atcd. Cougr atnlato ry telegra
ms were exchan ged betwe en the
Gra.ud Lodges.

•

Charte rs were grante d to the three Lodges nuder
dispen sation, making the num.'
her of charte red Lodge s fifty·seven.
The R. ·• W.·. TeoMAB ROBINSON is Presid ent
of the Board. ' of Genera l Purpos es.
Califo rnia's Repres entativ e, Bro. FBBD LBBLl'S
NlliWllAN, was not presen t at the
eeBSion.
M.'. W ••• Teo1u s Twnn , of Medicine Bat,
Wds elected Grand Maste r; R.·. W.•.
WrLLU.llf G. ScorT, of Winni peg, was electe d
Gra11d Secret ary.

MAR YLAN D.
The Grand Lodge of Maryland held a Specia
l Comm unicati on for the hnrial of
its beloved Depnty Grand Maste r, Bro. ROBERT
K. MARTIN, whose death occurr ed
sudden ly on Novem ber 24.th. Oomm ittees were
appoin ted to prepar e suitabl e resolutions of sympa thy ancl re~pect in memor
y of the deceas ed brothe r, and Pilat
Grand Maste r JoHN M. CA&TBB was reques ted
to deliver a eulogy upon the life and
charac ter of the emine nt dead brothe r at the
next Stated Comm unicat ion of the
Grand Lodge.
The Grand Lodge was then called olf and procee
ded to Corint hian Hall, where
the remain s of the deceas ed lay io state, snrrou
nded by his relativ es and friends .

1895.]

Grand Lodge of OaUjornia.

125

The Masonic funeral serviCe was perfor med
in a most solemn and i~pressive manby the Grand Master and the brethr en, assiste
d by the Grand Choir.
nerThe Grand Chapla in deliver ed an addr.es
s, when the Grand Lodge return ed to
its ball and closed.
On th'e 27 th the Grand Lodge 'assem bled to
·
f th \ te
accom pany the rem ams
o
e a f
Deputy Grand Master to the place of interm
ent at Newar k, Delaware: A_ gu~d o
h
from Maryla nd comm andery , Knigh ts Templ
ar, had the remam s m c arge
.. :~o:ow acted as pallbe arers. The corteg e,
accom panied by the family and ';iiends
d roceed ed b rail to Newar k, where they
were met by tram
~o;h: !:~ea::d~rptlleir escort :procee ded to the
ohurch . After ·religious se~vice~
the ~e:nain; were interre d.with Masonic funera
l honors in the family plot m ihe
chnrch cemet ery.
The Grand Lodge of Maryland held its Semi-A
nnnal Comm unicati on in the city
.
'I 8 1894 the ){. W:· THOIUS J. SHBYO
of Baltim ore "ay
OK, Grand Master, the
,
,·
•
·
•
B. w:· JACOB H. MEDAI&Y, Grand Secret ary.
Ninety Lodge s were repres en t e d•
• Pas~ Grand Master JOHN M. CARTBB, with
sevent een other Past Grand Officers,
were presen t.
.
The commi ttee appoin ted to prepar e suitab le
·
f' th
nse
resolnt1oos expres sive
o
e se
of the Grand Lodge of Maryland in referen ce
to the death of Deput y Gra~d Master
B
R K MASTIN report ed and Past Grand Maste
r JOHN M. CurBB delive red .an
ne.ut ~ddress in enlogy ;f the charac ter and
virtues of the dead brothe~; which
add~eas was o!'dered spread npon the minutes, a_nd a copy
of the rcsolut1oos pre·
ared for presen tation to the widow of Bro.
.
p The Repor ts of the Grand Treasu rer andMABTIN.
Grand Secret ary were consid ered and
f
d The comm ittee on same subseq uently report
ed that they had perfor med
~~e~;r:uiy, examin ed the acconn ts submi tted, and found
them correc t and suppo rted
l>y proper voucher~.

e;:·

A Specia l Communi~ation of this Grand Lo~ge
was held Septembe~ 4', 1894, at
I<:llicott City, for the purpos e of laying the corner
-stone of the Pr~byten.an Chnrcb
t that place The ceremo nies were perfor med
in accord ance with ancien t usage.
~n oratio n .,;as delivered by Past Grand Master JoHN
M. CABT!IB, and the Grand
Lodge return ed to its ball and closed .
Th Grand Lodge uf lhry\a nd held its one hundre
d and eighth Annual Coinmnolcatl: n in the citv of Baltimore Novem ber 20,
1894,- the M. •• W. •• THOM~· J ·ts~::;
OOK Grand Master, the R.·.
J.i.OOB H. MEDAIBY, Grand Secret ary.
me y·
Lodge s were repres ented. Eighte en Past Graud
Officers were ~ese:t· M ter with
The Grand Lodge was opened by the B.·.
W.·. De~uty ran
as •
the Grand Chapla in. The R.-. W.·. Depnt
y directe d the Grand Sword
prayer blY. f rm the ..- • W:. G1·and Master
that
the
Grand
Lodge
Bearer o m o
was
opened and
• ••
·t d bis pleasu re.,..,The
Grand Maste r's entran ce was procla1·med b Y th G d
e ran
~::::al, the Grand Honor s were given, and the Grand
:Master took the gavel tendered him by his R.·. W.·. Depnty .
·
The Grand Sccr.e tary says the Grand Maste·
r delive red an addres s of mteres t
only to the Grand Lodge of Maryland.
B
Tbe Comm ittee 00 Foreig n Corres ponde nce,
to whom Gr~n~ ~a~ter HRYOOK
referre d certa.in coml)lunications from tile Grand
f,o~ges of M1ss1ss1pp1 and W1scon·
81· 11 , presen ted their answe rs to the proposit.io.o submi tted.
.
In reply to the Mississippi propos ed uni rorm 1
ru es co ncernm g j orisdlc ti on, the
eomm ittee," Bro. E.;T. ScHULTZ, chairm an, say:-

w.·.

1895.]

126

Procee.dings of the

[Oct. 9,

The Gi:an~ Lodge of Maryland bas always held to the doctrine of so-called " erpetnal jnr1sd1ctlon over rejected material " onr role relating to the enb:fect bei·n p
follows :
'
g as
"33 .. . Rel-Olved, T~at no Lodge In this jnriediotion shall be permitted to receive
the pet1t1on of a can.d1date who has bee!! rejected by another Lodge witbont the
consent of the rejecting Lodge, provided 1t be in existence.
"34. Resol~ed, That every applicant for initiation shonld state In his petition
whether be bas or bas not been rejected by a.ny Lodge.
"~5. Resolved, That t~e .:ionsent of the rejecting Lodge shall be determined by
a. ma.Jorlty .of ballots ce.at ID open Lodge, and be properly anthentica.ted in writing
over the e1gnatnree of the W. •• Maeter and Secretary and seal of the r · t·
Lodge. November, 1877.''
eJec 1ng
. In the jndgme~t of yonr committee these regulations are eminently wi~e and are
ID foll harmony with the funda.mental principles of onr fraternity. And they believe,
that so far as they relate to reJected material within the jnrisdictlon they a.re held
'
by the Grand Lodges generally of our conntry.
_Referring to the adoption of nniformity in the manner of bestowing Ma.sonic
rellef a.e proposed by the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin, the ea.me committee say:Yonr committee nnhesite.tingly say that the adoption of this proposition w Id
destroy one of t~e fnnda.mentel pri!lciples of ?Dr Fraternity, robbing Freema.ei:r
of one ?f her br1gbt~st g~ms-Cbar1ty., and brmg oar time-honored Fratern·i.y
1 on ya
level ~1th t~e mutnal beneOt association of the day.
T~1s snb,ect was presented for the consideration of the Ma.sonic Congress held
In Chica.go m the summer of 1893, and, after a foll and able discussion, the folio win
was adopted as the conclusion of the Oongress upon that subject.
g
"The conclusion of the Congress is that worthy Masons ar~ entitled to relief
from brethren and Lodges wheresoever they may be found in need of rer t
d
that &he brethren or Lodges granting ench aid are not entitled to demand · ieb, an
ment from tb'j ~odg~e in which they hold their membership ; bot"that wb~4:;~ r:!~':;::
her of a Lodge is relieved by another and the financial situation of his Lodge is s h
a.a to permit, that c.om_mon conrtesy and dnty alike demand that it should re· b nc
Im nrse
a poorer Lodge rehev1Dg its members."
Believing this to be the true doctrine bearing npon this enbject yonr committee
recommend .a no~-concurrence with the proposition recommend~d by the G d
Lodge of W1sconsm.
ran
Bro. WILLIAM E. STEWART represen11! the Grand Lodge of California near the
Grand Lodge of Maryland. Bro. STEWABT is well kn·own to the "old timers'' 10
·
California. as a Pioneer, a Joya.I Meson, Ma.eter of onr Summit Lodge No. 112
II
d
d
"tiz
•
'
an
a aroun goo c1 en and an honest men. We have· sat under the shade of his ft
tre?e• drank of the Joice or his grapes, and initiated, passed, and raised a mnltitnd~
of imaginary candidates In days gone by.
The Grand Lodge or Maryland has npon Us roll ninety-live Lodges, with a membership of 662i Master Masons.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by Chairman EDWARD T. BcHULTZ
a veteran correspondent, who bas opinions and dares maintain tb.em.
'
Under Arizona Bro. ScHULTZ concnrs in several recommendations of Grand Master Omiss~,.and dissents fr_om others. We think Bro. OBMSBY clearly right in his
viewt~ of gmnbg more a tten~mn to ~h~ cultivation of the social fee.tores in onr Lodge
mee 1Dgs as t e most e ect1ve med1c1De for the evil of non-attendance.
In regard to tempera.nee legislation we are in accord with Bro. SCHULTZ and the
Committee ~n Jurf~prndence when they 'Bay, "If the action of a. brother in the use
of or traffickmg In hq nor becomes an offense against Ma.eonrv, the Lodge is com etent to take all necessary action in the matter."
p
On the question or non-affiliation Bro. SCHULTZ reads the brethren who have
a?o~ted our ~ethods a sharp lecture for following the example of the bad California
g1rl m declarmg that if one will not pay the mnslcian, neither shall be dance.
. Bro: SCIIULTZ says, Suppose a Grand Lodge ehonld adopt a regulation something
h~e this: Any brother who she.II commit murder, arson, or felony, shall (without
trial) be ~eemed nnworthy of Masonic consideration, etc.

11

127

Grand Lod,ge of OaUfornia.

Y onr supposition is not tenable, Bro. SCHULTZ. In the first place, we convict no
one or offense withont triaL We consider the proceedings nnder Sec. 11, Art. S,
Part 8, or onr Constitntlon, nnder which snspenslons for non-payment or does are
ma.de, to be a form or trial, and a form nnder which the rights of onr members are
snfficiently gna.rded. There is another sort of trial for people who commit mnrder,
arson or felony, bot that form don't concern ns as Masons.
Under California, Bro. SCHULTZ notes the illness or Grand Master GllITMAN, which
resulted in bis death in a few months thereafter, quotes onr Committee on Jurisprndence on the Representative question, and comments favorably npon Bro. ANDEB·
SON'S Report on Correspondence.
Under Florida., Bro. SCHULTZ writes:A resolution was proposed to appoint five delegates, whose dnty it she.II be to
correspond with the severe.I Grand Lodges of North America, with the view of
determining upon a definite time and place of meeting a Most Worshipful Getll!ral
Grand Lodge of North America (italics oars). This proposition was referred to
the Committee on Jnrisprudence, bot, so far as we can see, no report was made by
them npon the •object; but if it had been adopted by the Grand Lodge, we hardly
think any Grand Lodge on this continent wonld have endorsed the proposition.
The opportnnity for the formation of snch a body wa.e euftered to pass about one
hundred years ago.
'
The M. •. W.·. THOMAS J. SHRYOCK wa.e re.·elected Grand Master; R. •. W. •.
JACOB H. MEDAIBY was re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Bro. EDWARD
T. Bc11\7LTZ, Baltimore.
MASSACHUSETTS.
A Quarterly Communication·of the Grand Lodge of Ma.esachusetts was held in
the City of Boston Mar!!h 14, 1894,-the M. •• W. •• Ons E. WELD, Grand Me.st.er,
the R. '. W. •• SERENO D. NICKERSON being Grand Secretary. One hundred and
twenty-five Lodges were represented. There were present three Pa.st Grand
Me.aters, three P~t Deputy Grand Masters, twenty-one Past Grand Ward.ens
and twenty-three District Deputy Grand Masters.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the Grand Chap~~

.

The following action was had in regard to dual membership: R. ·. W. ••
CHARLES HARRIS presented the following report, which wa.e accepted, and the
amendment, as recommended, was unanimously adopted:The committee to whom was referred the proposed amendment to Part 5, Sec.
13, respectfully submit the following report and recommendation :Section 13, of Pa.r~ V~ as it now stands, restricts a brother from being a member of more than one LOOge.
The proposed amendment removes this restriction to the extent of giving him
the privilege of holding at the ea.me time membership in a foreign Lodge.
This amendment is intended particularly for the benefit of brethren, members
of Lodges in this State, whose business may take them to foreign countries to reside for a considerable length of time, and who, for their own advantage, and for·
the service they may render Freema•onry in those countries, may desire to become
members of Lodges in those countries, without being compelled by the law of this
Grand Lodge to first sever their membership from the home Lodge.
Your committee are in full accord with the spirit of the proposed amendment,
but would recommend its adoption in a form somewhat less ambiguous tb1Ln that
in which it was first offered--a form in which, while it will continue, as here·
tofore, to restrict a. brother from being a mem her of more than one Lodge in this
State, will oppose no barrier to bis holding membership at the same time in a
Lodge, if he may so desire, in a foreign couutry where he may reside.
We therefore recommend that Section 13 of Part V be amended by inserting
after the word "Lodge," in the second line, the words, "in tbie Commonwealth," so
that when amended the Section shall read as follows, viz :-

128

Procetdings of tlie

"No brother shall be a member of more than one Lodge fo this Commonr·
wealth."

No further busine88 appearing Grand Lodge closed.

· Another important change, involving the question of jurisdiction over rejected
candidates, was proposed by the committee, as follows :-

We quote Sections 4, 5, 6 and 7, of the law as proposed to be amended; section 7, merely to give our readers a clear understanding of the position of Massachusetts on physical qualifications :Siro. 4. ~o candidate, whose !l'PPli~at\on. may be rejected by a Lodge, shall
be proposed ID any Lodge under this Jur1ed1ct1on, other than the one to which he
first applied, within six months after such rejection, nor at any time without a
written recommendation from the Master, Wardens, and three members of the
said Lodge.
SEO. 5. Any candidate, whoRe application may be rejected, who shall at any
time while resid ;DIC in this State, or within one year after removal theref~om be
initiated in any other Lodge, either within or without this State without' the
recommendation aforesaid, shall be deemed a clandestine Mason, an'd all Masonic
intercou1se wit~ him. is forbidden. Provi.lkd, however, that whenever it shall appear, to the sat1sfact1on of the M. ". W. ". Grand Master, that any person deemed
a clandestine Mason under the provisions of this Section has received the degrees
solely by tlie fault or mistake of the Lodge conferring the same, or of any officer
or member of such Lodge, the Grand l\;fa:ster i;na:y, at ~is discretion, cause 6 uch
person ~ ~ healed. E_very MRl!on. res1d1D~ ~~th!n this ~tate, who, knowing of
such reiection, shall advise or a881et ID such m1t1at10n, or ID the recommenrlation
or proposal therefor, shall be expelled from the Institution, or subjected to such
other penalty_ aa the Grand Lodge ma:ir see fit to impose.
Biro. 6. No C•ndidate shall be imtiated in any Lodge under this jurisdiction
without a clear and unanimous vote in his favor. Every member present ehali
vote on the application, unless excused by the Lodge.
SEO. 7. If the physical deformity of any applicant for the degrees does not
amount to an inability to meet the requirements of the ritual, and honestly to acquire the means of subsistence, it shall constitute no hindrance to hie initiation.
A second Quarterly Communication of this Grand Lodge was held in Boston,
June 13, 1894,-R. ". W. ". EDWIN B. HourBB, Deputy Grand Master, R. ·. W. ".
SERENO D. NrnKEBSON, Grand Secretary. Ninety-seven Lodges were represented. Four Past Grand Masters were present, with three Paet Deputy Grand
Masters and twenty Past Grand Wardens.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Re~ording Grand Secretary havin'!' stated that it had come to his knowledge that a key or cipher purporting to contain the Ritual of the Grand Lodge;
had been put in circulation in Boston and vicinity, the Grand Lodge
Vuted, That a committee of five members of the Grand Lodge be appointed to
investigate forthwith the alleged preparation and circulation of a key or cipher of
the Ritual of this Grand Lodge, with instructions t o use their utmost exertions' to
ferret out the gnilty parties, and report to the next Quarterly Communication;

129

and that said committee have full authority to summon any and all brethren who
they may have cause to believe to have knowledge in regard to the preparation or
circulation of said key or cipher.

The remainder of the section to be unchanged.

The committee to whom was referred the revision of Art. III of Part IV of the
Grand Constituti?ns_, s!1b!11it herewi~h a draft ?f the same. The only material
change relates to 1ur1sd1ct1on over reiected candidates. In this we have coneid-·
.ered that our proper jurisdiction ceased when a candidate removed from ourState, and that the proper solution of such difficulties as have arisen would be
found in acknowledging ~his fact. _We ha~e therefore made no change in this
matt.er so l~ng as the candidate rema1De a resident here, and undertake simply to
provide aga1Dst a merely pretended removal by requiring an actual residence with·
out the State for at least one year. ·

GTand Lodge of Oaliforn_w.

1895.J

[Oct. 9',.

A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge was held in the town of North
Attlelioro, June 16, 1894, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of the
"Richards Memorial Library."

t

l

A Special Communication was also held in the town of Nahant, July 23d, for
the purpose of laying the corner-stone of a Public Library building.
A Third Quarterly Communication was held in the city of Boston,. September
12th,-the M. ". W. ". Orrs E. WELD, Grand Master, the R. ". W. ". SERENO D.
NIOKEBBON, Grand Secretary.· One hundred and thirty-one Lodges were represented. Four Past Grand Masters were present with four Past Deputy Grand
Masters and twenty-three Past Grand Wardens.
.The Committee on Revision of Constitution reported and the Grand Lodge
adopted their recommendations. The most noticeable change seems to have been
made in Sec. 5 of Art. III; it now reads as. follows :Any candidate whose application has been rejected who sh&ll, at any time
while residing in this State, be initiated in any other Lodge, or who shall, within
seven years after remov~l from the State, be init iated. in any Lodge, without t~e
reoommendation aforesaid, shall be deemed a clandestme Mason, and all Masomc
intercoursll with him is forbidden. P'l'O'llided, however, that whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the M. ".'if!·". Gran~ Mast!lr that any J?llrBOn deemed a
clandestine Mason under the prov1B1ons of this Section has received the degrees
solely by the fault or mistake of the Lodge conferring the same, or of any officer or
member of each Lodge, the Grand Master may at his discretion cause such person
to be healed. Every Mason, residing within this State, who, knowing of such rejection shall advise or assist in such initiation, or in the recommendation or proposal therefor, shall be expelled from the Institution, or subjected to such other
penalty ae the Grand Lodge may see fit to impose.
A Special Communication of this Grand Lod~e was held in Roxbury, September 29th, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of the new house of the First
Universalist Society in RoxbUry.
A Special Communication was also helq in the town of Merrimac, October
10th, for the purpose of dedicating the new Masonic apartments of Bethany Lodge.
And on the 29th day of October for the purpose of consecrating a burial lot and
dedicating a monument in Mount Hope Cemetery, presented to the Grand Lodge
of Massachu86tts by Bro. JOHN H. CoLLA.MOBE,- R.". W. ". Bro. EDwlN B.
HOLMES, as Grand Master, R. ". W.". SERENO D. NIOKEBSON, Grand Secretary.
There was a large attendance of permanent members.
The last Quarterly of the Grand Lodge of Massachnsetts for the year 1594 was
held in the city of Boston, December 12,- the .R. ·• W . ". Deputy Grand Master,
EDWIN B. HOLMES, presiding. One hundred and fifty-six Lodges were repre·
sented, and there was a large attendance of permanent members.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Due F orm with prayer.

9

130

. Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

1895.]

The R. ·• W. '.Deputy Grand Master r.iad the Address of the Grand Master,
who stated that his health had been such as to render it impossible for him tel dis·
charge most of the public duties devolving upon the Grand Master, and expre•sed
his great obligations to the Deputy Grand Master for the faithful and acceptable
discharge of the same. He submitted a report of the Masonic Work of the Jurisdiction for the year past.
The Grand Lodge appropriated the sum of ten thousand dollars of the surplus receipts of the past year to the "Masonic Edut'ation and Charity Trust."
In a communication the Grand Master, M. ·. W. ·. OTIS E. WELD, stated to the
Grand Lodge that owing to the state of his health he found it impossible to perform the duties of Grand Master in a manner satisfactory to himself, and with
thanks for past favors declined to be a candidate for re-election.
The annual election being held the R. '. W. ·. Deputy Grand Master, EDWIN
B. HOLMES, was elected Grand Master.
The Grand Master submitted a communication from Bro. JOHN H. COLLAMORE,
proffering for the .acceptance of the Grand Lodge an additional gift of lalld to be·
come a part of the burial lot heretofore presented by him, with a bond for the
perpetual care of the same.
The Grand Lodge voted: That the deed and bond be accepted and that the
thanks of the Grand Lodge be returned to Bro. COLLAMORE for his munificent
gift.
The Committee on Ritual reported the following, which was adopted by a
unanimous vote :WHEREAS, Certain unauthorized practices tend to corrupt the work and lectures
of this Grand Lod~, and deceive the Craft; and, WHEREAS, Certain printed books,
purporting to be cipher keys to the ritual, or parts thereof, of this Grand Lodge,
have been found in circulation in this jurisdiction; it is Voted, That hereafter any
Mason, under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, who shall print, or cause to. be
printed, any such book or sheets, or buy or sell the same, or cause the same to be
bought or sold, or who shall use or circulate the same, shall be liable to expulsion
from the rights and privileges of ·Freemasonry, or to be otherwise punished, by
vote of the Grand Lodge at any Quarterly Communication thereof.
A Stated Communication of this Grand Lodge was held in the city of Boston,
December 27, 1894, for the purpose of installing the Grand Officers elect and
celebrating the feast of Saint John the Evangelist. The ceremonies of Installation being concluded, the record s11ys:At five minutes after six o'clock P. M. the brethren were called from labor to
refreshment. A procession was formed by the Grand Marshal and conducted to
the Banquet Hall, where the Feast of Saint John the Evangelist was celebrated
in Due and Ancient Form, after the manner of Masons.
THE GRAND FEAST.
Afte'r an eloquent introduction by Grand Master HOLMES, and the honoring of
the regular customary toasts, the Grand Master called upon the Reverend and W or·
shipful Bro. CUCKSON, Grand Chnplain. The Grand Master said of him, "He
honors us, not us him, by acceptieg this office.
BROTHER OUOKSON'S RESPONSE.
MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER AND BRETHREN :-I thank you for the
honor you have again conferred upon me by again selecting me as one of the Grand
Chaplains of this Grand Lodge. I regret that my co-Chaplain, Brother HORTON,
is not permitted to be here this evening. He is a man of many engagements and
of much wor)i:, and found it inconvenient to be here to-night, and so desired me to

l

Grand Lodge of OalifornW..

131

apologize for his absence. For myself, there are few privileges which I enjoy more
deeply or more sincerely than my affiliation with Masonry. Our brotherhood is
too large for any sect or for any creed ; and, at the risk of differing somewhat from
so eminent an authority on theological and Masonic symbolism as the newly.
appointed Deputy Grand Master, I venture to say that the triangle was a triangle
long before the Trinity was thought of ; and, if I had the faintest notion that the
triangle I wore this afternoon was the symbol of the Trinity, with all due respect,
I should have handed it back a~ain to the· Deputy Grand Master.
We are here as a united brotherhood. We stand upon our merits as men, and
not upon any connection, or supposed connection, with this church, that, or the
other. I trust that our sympathies are broad enough to include all the churches,
and to maintain loyal and brotherly fellowship with the ministers of all denominations.
For my own part, I enjoy the fellowship, I think, more deeply and more widely
as I grow older, of the men who differ from me. It is the easiest thing in the
world to be on the best of terms with men who agree with you in every particular.
There is very little merit in that. But to be able to listen patiently and respectfully to men who think differently from you, to pay respect to their differences,
and to hold their right of private judgment in due and becoming reverence, is a
virtue which is none too co1Umon. I wish it were commoner than it is at the present
day.
A feeling of brotherhood is the one sole bond offellowship'which binds together
Masons in all parts of the civilized world; and, for my own part, I never could
quite understand the attitude of any Christian church in its opposition to Masonry ;
for it seems to me that Masonry, .rightly understood, comprehends and embraces
that which is common to all the churches, and that which is best in Christianity;
and I think that the feeling which prompts the Catholic Church to be hostile to
our brotherhood must rather be a feeling of envy, a feeling that we are perhaps a
little too strong and a little too close in our fellowship, that we are a formidable
body as compared with the Roman Catholic Church, and that our brotherhood is
as large and as powerful, when it cares to exert itself, as any existi1,1g affiliation in the
world ; and it is not of much use for the church to try to deal with us in any spirit
of hostility. It may put us under its ban; it may curse us, if it chooses; but that
kind of business is innocent enough in these days, fortunately. It may do what it
chooses ; but we have bef!n here a little too long, we are too ancient, too deeply
rooted, too firmly fixed in human life, to be i'reatly disturbed by the anathemas of
any,priest or of any church. And so the bitterness, the ill-feeling, which sometimes
comes to the surface in the church, reminds me very much of the anger-the
fruitless anger-displayed once by a Somersetshire far111er. He tried desperately
hard, but to no purpose, to tear up an oak sapling by the roots. He pulled at it,
and puffed and blowed for a long time, but could not move it. At last in futile
petty anger, he said, "Domn the pigs that didn't yut thee when thou wert an
aeorn I"
Now, it seems to me that the hostility towards Masonry, in its 'futility, partakes very much of the anger of the Somersetshire farmer. We are not moved by
hard words ; we are not to be disturbed by misunderstandings and misrepreSAntations. Our work is clear and definite, and distinct enough, anJ. we shall
probably go on without consulting the churches, and without consulting anybody
outside of our own Order. It is our work, individually and collectively, to maintain in our several capacities the great practical virtues of Freemasonry ; and as I
read my morning papers it seems to me that there never was atime when Masonry
should stand more firmly for conduct and character than at the present day. If
we do no not stand for that, if our essential principles of Truth and Justice and
Mercy and Brotherly Kindness be not the essential features of our federation,
then I know not for what we can stand before the world; and in all our great
cities of America there is abundant need for the patriotic citizen, trained in the
school of Freemasonry.
·
There is abundant mason for men who are both able and willing to serve the
State, and to serve the State willingly, to ve of their strength and their time,
and of their means, to the maintenance o pure government, with a view to securing in all our cities, and in our States, a government that governs, for that, it
seems to me, is what we most of all need in these times. When I think of the
various institutions which are broullht into existence to enforce the laws of this
country, those institutions seem to me to be a permanent reflection either upon the
incapacity or the lack of character of the government itself. When we have our
watch a111d ward societies, our municipal leagues, and what not, these societies are •

r·

132

ProceeAlings of the

[Oct. 9,

~imply trying to etep in to do the work which should be done by the government
itself. And eo I thm_k we are ~l. called _upon, no matter what political label we
bear-for I care nothmg_ f!Jr political fac~rnn-our ~rst and foremost duty ie to serve
the State ae honorable citizens, and to give our voice and our vote in putting men
of representative character and ability and capacity into all the offices of the gov.
.
ernment.
By doing thie, we serve the highest interests of our country, the highest interests of trade, the broadest and beet intereete of commerce the beet interests of
education and religion, for the character and quality of a .nati~n can never riee higher
than the average character and qualitr of its citizens. What the State is depends
upon what we are; what the country is depends not upon its enormous territory
or i~e boundless resources of wealth, or its ingenuity and skill-the character of ~
nation depends upon the ~haracter of its citizens. And so it is our duty, as
Masons, to stand as one sohd body for all that is pure and clean and patriotic in
town and State and national government.
I ~ n?t speaking now from the etandp~int of I!' preacher, who is supposed to
deal with id.eals, ma~l".ofthem more or lessim.practicable; I am.s~akingnow from
the standpo1Dt of a citizen; from the standpo1Dt of a man who is interested in the
country in which he Ii ves. I cannot, of course-I would not if I could-forget my
o.ld all.egiance to the lan_d in whi!lh I was born, and the land I deeply love ; but I
have hved long enough m America, my attachments to America are eo strong and
deep and close, that 1·would fain love my country here !Lii I have sought to love
and serve my country on the other eide of the Atlantic.
Then we are more or less subject to outside criticism; and that, it seems to me
should make us still more careful of the position in which we stand to the outsid~
world. There are those who eye ue with suspicion, because they do not anrl cannot understand ue. There are those who retMn old prejudices against us without
knowing exactly why they retain them ; and therefore it is all the mort: incumbent
upon us to make our brotherhood synonymous with all that is best and truest· in
our national life to-day.
Then I confess I heard, with a good deal of satisfaction, the statement of the
Grand Master that some effort was to be made to associate practical charity with
Freemasonry. Our .goo~ fello~shiJ? is, of course, very satisfactory and very
pleasant. We all enioy it. It is delightful to meet here, or meet once a month in
our various Lodges. B.ut I sometim1JB think that, in ~onnection with Freemasonry,
there should he eomethmg more permanent, eomethmg more dumble something
more lasting than thai : and I trust that the large fund which has akeady been
~u~cri~ed ~or ch~ritable P?rpoeee will eventual~y lead to the establishment of some
1Dstitution ID which the children, the orphan children of Masone, or aged or infirm
Masons, may receive some lasting and permanent benefit at our bands.
It always seemed to me that one of the chief attractions of Freemasonry in
England was the. magnificent way in which Masonic charities were supported there.
I have s11t at a dmner on St. John's Day in Bradford, and have seen $5 ()()()taken
from t~e qinner table for the maintenance of ~asonic charities, in the way of
Masomc gifts. No one !'BB pledged to any specific sum, but we all gave, according
to our means, to the ma1Dtenance of the Orphan School for Boys, and for the
maintenance of the Home for Infirm Masons.
Then there was one other feature in connection with Masonry which touched
me more tenderly and deeply than almost anything else. I well remember the
toast at all our dinners in England, "To aged and sick and infirm Ma11ons all over
the world: may God give them a speedy deliverance from all their troubles."
That w~ o!1e of the s~ndard sentiments i!1 all our meet!ngs, al!d. that is one thing
that I hke ID our meet1Dg•, that all our differences, soe1al, political, or religious
are absolutely dropped when we enter the Masonic Temple, and our hearts ~
~roaden~ and our sympnthies deepened 11o11 we think .of those w~o are poor and
s10k and mfirm, and who need our sympathy. That side of our hfe, it seems to
me, may be materially develope<l without interfering with our l!OOd-fellowsbip or
'
with the pleasure of these gatherings.
However, I must not drop into preaching. I came here to-night in defiance oJ
authorities which I am bound to respect, and came from a sickness from which I
am just recovering. When I came from home I snid that I did not feel well
enough, really, to go to the Feast of St. J obn, but Mr. HORTON said that he could
not go, and that I must go, and so1 like a goodMason, I came and accepted your
hospitality, and I heartily and smcerely thank the Grand Master for the honor
which h~ has conferred upon m!l by ma~ing me.his Gran.d Chaplain this year, an
office which I value, and the duties of which I will do all m my power to discharge
• faithfully and sincerely.

1895.]

Grand LO<lge of OaM/ornia.

133

BH:Sl'ONSE OF BROTHER WOODBURY.
MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER :-This is a fraud. I have been waiting
to hear brother WELCH and Brother WELLS, and pick up ideas from them, and,
having the last word, to scratch their backs with my toe nail as bard as I could.
Instead of that, you have called me up_at this inopportune time, so that now I
have got to catch it instead of them. Under the circumstances, I feel very much
as a little girl in Boston did some years ago, when Boston was "gooder" than it is
now. She said her prayers in the evening, as usual, and, at the conclusion, said,
"Good-by, God. I am going to New York to-morrow." But you have caught
me, sir, when I am exposed to my enemies, with nobody to shield me or protect
me.
I have listened wilh feelings of pleasure to the remarks of your excellent and
worthy Grand Chaplain, and I think that he has given you some very good advice,
anrl has encouraged you in the way you should fr<>· I think that Masons ought
always to remember that the grPat fact which gives life, not existence, but gives
life and vitality to Masonry, and causes it to spread all over the world, is involved
in two propositions :-one, that Masons are to be true to the country in which
they live; the other, that they are to establish institutions where brethren of all
sects and creeds, not atheists, m•y meet tog.ther upon a common footing, and
become acquainted and esteem each other's virtues more and more; and there is
no kicking at any creed ; there is no kicking at any body of men ; there is no intolerance or bigotry to stir the Masonic Body in the least particle from the great
fundamental principle of its organization, or cause it to withhold the right hand of
fellowship from those who are willing to come together and meet upon the level
and part upon the square. In all these troubles, and in all these trials that we
have to go through, Masone should always remember that, because that is their
bond of strength, that is their power, which will exist ae long a~ humanity shall

exist.

Now, to go back, and start anew: when that great principle was announcedand I need not go historically back of that-Masonry spread at once in Germany,
in France, in Holland, in Great Britain, in Ireland, in Scotland, and in the
United States, and then in the colonies, and all the world took it up. You can
find Masons in India, you can find them in China, vou can find them in Japan,
you can find them in Persia, you can find them in Arabia, you can find them
among the Indians out on the plain•, .you can find them among the Indians in
,South America; all recognizing the Masonic sign, and all ready to extend the
right hand of fellowship and brotherhood to those whom they meet as their
fellows.
\Vith that bond of Masonry our merchants and our ehipmasters and our sailors
have in times past traversed the whole world and brought back the rich treasures of
every country, and found themselves in every city, wherever they might be, in the
presence of friends who would take care that they were not cheated, but who would
see that they got fair play. It is a great thing to belong to an Institution that is
so widespread and so uni versa!, and yet does not derogate one iota or hair's
breadth from the fidelity which you owe to your country and to the institutions
·
of your country. Your loyalty is unimraired by it.
Wby, in the days of the Revolution, you talk of those great men, Washington,
and Lafayette, and General Knox, and Stark, and Putnam, and Hancock, and all
the great names that filled this country with their energy and their force ill Revolutionary times; tbP. boncis of Masonry tied them together, and they trusted ePch
other, and, became they trusted ea.ch other, they dared to go forward, and, because
of them, .America became free.
No, it was not we, it was uot our grandfathers and our great-grandfathers in
themselves, but, above all, there was the Unseen Hand, the Divine Force, the
Great Will, before which all the earth trembles, and all the earth moves, and all
the earth has its bein(I', that carried those men forward in tbe path which led to
the freedom of this country ; and it is with you a guiding star, a pillar of cloud by
day and a pillar of fire by night, guiding the whole people of the world up to a better
future, to a higher civilization, to a more perfect equality, to a greater prosperity,
to a more thorough happiness-to everything which can make earth the nearest
approximation which can be made to a Garden of Paradise or of Eden.
Now, I am pas•ing away. Men who are gray amongst you are also passing
away. On you this mantle of Elijah is to fall, and you are to go on and do the
work. Do not forget it I It is a moral precept on your minds ; it is a moral duty
on your consciences ; it is a great thing that you are still, as you have been for

134

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

~ne ~uti~red and fifty years before, the forlorn hope, leading the battles of civiltzat1on 11! behalf of a common humanity.
Why, if you read Robieon'.e "Proofs of a Conspiracy, "written one hundred
years ~o and upwards, you will find that he 8&id that Masonry waged war against
altars .and against thrones, against government and for anarchy. One hundred
years have paeeed by. Alta.re are respected now ae much ae they were then; they are
deeper seated now than they were then because now they are founded in the hearts
of the humnn race ; then they were founded upon the barenel!I! of the !awe of the
State to which they were allied. Liberty has expanded. Government has not suffered. Property hae not suffered. Religion hae not suffered. But everything
like the genial hand of epri!Jg com!ng upon the. snow-clad earth, · has grown gree~
and bloss.omed, and bide fair to brmg forth fruit; and you are to go on with the
work which has been begun.
I wi.\l say one thing more, but I do not want to detain you long. This Grand
Lo~~ has gone. through, as you know, maey trials, and many troubles, and many
afH1ct1ons; but !ts heart has ~lwa~s. been true to the principles of the Order, and it
has come out trmmphant agam. r1smg over e,·ery obstacle climbing every height
dispelling every storm. until it is now in the condition that has been spoken of by
the reverend gentleman who preceded me.
Yoo have a great Charity Fu.nd :. you have a · need of charity funds in your
Lodges, by your volunt~ry contr1bntions, ':"'h1ch no Mason among you will neglect,
no Mason among you will refuse to recogmze, but every man must meet according
to his meal!s and acco~din.g ~ the necessity. I hope to see the time when we shall
have <?rgamze? those mstitut1ons of charity on a broader and a firmer and a more
eodurmg footmg than they now are. But I say that, so far as the past is concerned, the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts stood up to its duty every day and
~very hour, and has brought things into ~ condition where the hope for the future
.
is founded upon. the good performance in the past.
Most Worshipful, I came here to welcome you to your new position, and to asand
sure you, on behalf of the elder memberslnf the Fraternity, of that happine888
of that respect which attend the high position to which you have attained and t o
&881,lre you, sir, that so far !ls we who are pas9ing away from the 11phere ~f active
action are concerned, we will do all that we cao to hold up !Your hands while you
continue to fight for the cause ; and in you, sir, we hope ; and I pledge you, in beh!11.f of all the. Masons here assembled, regardless of the Lodges or ••previous cond1t1on of servitude "-your health.
We never tire of listening to our eloquent Massachusetts brethren as, with their
legs under the mahogonv, they maintain the good old custom of honoring the
'
Feast of Saint John.
MIOHIGAN,

The Grand Lodge of Michigan held its fifty-first Annoal Oommunlcatlon in the
city of Detroit, January 22; 1895,--the M.·. W.•. WrLLr.u1 H. PHILLIPS, Grand Master,
R.·. W.-. J11Fl'EBSON S. CoNOVBB, Grand Secretary. Three hundred and eeventy-fonr
Lodges were represented, two not represented. Twenty Past Grand Mastera
answered present.
A beantifnl phototype, or photogramme, ornaments the opening page of the
journal containing the portraits of Grand Master PmLLD'B anti his staff-the Grand
Stewards seem to be represented by two charming eastern stars at the right and
·
·
left and rear of the Grand Master.
Eleven Special Communications, for the dedication of Lodges and placing of
corner stones, were held daring the year.
This fine volnme contains a historical account of the organization of the Grand
Lodge of Mlohigan, it.s early difficnlties and final trinmph on a permanent basis in
1844, with fonr snbordinates. The historian says : "It has seen these four Lodges
with a little handful of members grow to nearly four hnndred Lodges, and more
than thirty-six thousand loyal earnest members working together to elevate
humanity and to perpetnate among the people of oar beaotlfnl Peninsnlar State the
pore principles of oar loved institntlon." As a tribute to the organization of the
Grand Lodge he publisheS:in this volume the1portraits, with a biographical sketch,

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oa:liforuw.

135

of the IiveR of forty-two of Its Past Grand Masters, from LEWIS CA88 to WILLIAM H.
PHILLIPS, the youngest of the tribe.
On Thursday a semi-centennial celebration was observed, at which, interspersed
with music, were addreeees by Past Grand Masters HuGH MoOURDY, WILLI.llll T.
.MITCHELL and JoeN W. CHAHPLIN.
Greeting& were received from the Grand Masters and prominent Masons in many
of the jurisdictions of the United States and Oanada.
The Grand Lodge of Michigan bears npon its roil 378 active Lodges, with a membership of 36, 713 Master Masons.
Past Grand Master Hon. JoHJ( W. McGRATH, of Detroit, represents the Grand
Lodge of California near the Grand Lodge of Michigan. W ••• Bro. S.uro11L PRAGER,
of Los Angeles, represents the Grand Lodge of Michigan near the Grand Lodge of
California.
The Grand Lodge was opened In its fifty-first Annual Communication with prayer
by the Grand Chaplain and responses by the brethren.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. Afler a fraternal greeting to
the aseem bled brethren he referred to the organization of the Grand Lodge, its
history and progrees to the fifty-first year of its existence. He says: "Trnly,
brethren, we have much for which to be thankfnl. Let ns therefore celebrate our
semi-centennial In this beautiful oity of the Straits, the city of oar Masonic nativity,
with joy and gladneAe." The Grand Master referred to the past year as having
been one of great financial distress and rain to many worthy men and Masons, bot,
notwithstanding, Freemasonry here has been prosperous. The Grand Master re·
ported his official acts, first returning thanks to the Supreme Architect for his protecting care and gracious permission to assemble once again with unbroken ranks,
while many sister jurisdictions have been •adly afflicted by the loss of eminent and
beloved brethren ; bat while the grim messenger has spared the official circle of
this jurisdiction, hie freqnent visits are manifest in the death of Bro. HENRY M.
Looi:, Past Grand Lecturer, and four hundred and forty-seven members bf the constituent I,odges of the jnr:isdlctlon.
' The Grand Master reported the toes of Rister jnriedictlone by the death of many
eminent brethren whose forms and faces will be sadly miesed at the yearly assem·
blies of the brethren, and he extended the sympathy of the brethren of the Grand
·Lodge of Michigan to the mourning jnrisdictions,
· Under the head of Decisions, the Grand Master is asked: "Is it lawfnl for a
brother who hae sat in a Chapter or Oommandery with a Ohapter or Oommandery
Mason to vouch for him in the Blue Lodge?" Answer. " N 9. Blue Lodge
Masonry knows nothing of the higher degrees, and a person tendering a vo1rnher
who had sat in a Ohapter, Connoll, Cowmandery or Ooneietory with the would·be
visitor hae never· been regarded as sufficient; there is no Masonic communication between these bodies and Lodges. Under such circnmstaoces the visitor should be
examined. The test oath is part of an examlnatio~, and Masonic Lodges have nu
means of knowing what test oaths are provided for in Chapters, Oonnc!IB, Oommanderies, etc."
Our practice is diJferent. Although we remember bat one decision upon the
qneetion In our Grand Lodge. In 1878, Grand Master PBATT, iu hie Address, said:
"l ~ve been twice asked if sitting lo a Ohapter of Royal Arch Masons, with a
given indivldtial in this jurisdiction, entitles the brother, so sitting, to vonch for
such iodividnal to a 'Lodge of Master Masons. I confess to have been at first a
little staggered by the inqniry, for the rule le laid down with a great deal of exactness by the Masonic jnri•ts whom we are acoustomed to conenlt, and the case above
stated would not come within the precise letter of that rnle. He must have sat in
·the Lodge, eaye the role, and a Chapter is not a Lodge. Bat the qneetlon involved

136

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California.

137

was probably not considered by those jnrlsts. Had it been, I have little donbt that
the rnle would have been so stated as to include the case !lnder consideration. I
could not see any rational distinction between the two cases which should make the
voucher good in the one case and not In the other, and my decision was pronounced
accordingly.
Past Grand Master PBA.TT was a Masonic jurist of ability, and bis decision, as
above, bas never been questioned in Oalifornla, and we confess we see nothing in
Grand Master PHILLIPS' reasoning that raises a doubt In the matter.
Two dispensations were issued for the formation of new Lodges.
Upon examination, the Grand Master found the treasury in au ansatisfatory con·
dition. Re accordingly relieved the Treasurer of the harden of office and appointed
the Chairman of the Finance Oommittee to straighten things ont.
The special committee on the memorial from the Grand Lodge of Vl'.isconsin, referring " to a more uniform syste-m of Masonic relief," close their report as follows:"!hile th~ principles advocated by our brethren of the Grand Lodge of Wis·
consm may, ID some respects, seem more broad than onr own, yoor committee is not
willing to recommend a change in the established theory of this Grand Lodge in
relation to the administration of its Masonic charities, even if it conld agree upon
some plan of nnion with the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin wbicb•would be devoid of
th1> diffionlty attending the enforcement of an a11reement between two sovereign
Grand Bodies of non-concnrrent jurisdiction. Yoor committee therefore reports
back the communication witbont recommendation , and asks to be discharged from
the farther consideration of the subject.

Under California, Bro. Oo110VER notes the illness of Grand Master GRITMAN and
the performance of bis duties by Past Grand Master CoNKL.Ill. H~ writes of the extent of our jurisdiction which takes in Honolola and the adJaceat islands, and bears
upon its roll constituent Lodges in the New Rep~blic.
.
.
Tbe new Masonic Te~ple la coarse of erection at Hoaolala 1s an elegant bmlding and a credit to the Masons of the Islands.
.
.
Bro. CONOVER compliments om Grand Lodge upon its prosperous flna~c1a.l condition. Be mentions the good work of oar Boards of Relief, and the prellm1naries lor
the establishment of a Mnsonic Home.
..
Bro. OoNOVER quotes the Report on Jurisprudence defining oar ~on-affiliate law
and regulations, and giving the status rights and duties of non-affihate11 nuder our
law. He speaks good words for the reports of Bro. J. W. ANDERSON, oar predec.9 s·
sor · be also refers to the report of oar Oommittee on Jurisprudence upon the corres~ondence with Grand Master ABNOLD, of Pennsylvania, in determining who the
Grand Representative represents-the Grand M.aster, the Grand Lodge, or only
himself.
.
.
Under Ooanecticot, the death of our good Bro. WeERLER is noticed anJ a sprig
of acacia dropped in bis memory.
.
And still another gu•st we bring. Under Oregon. Bro. OeADWIOK bas passed to
rest.
.
And yet another. Under Tennessee, Bro. Joe11 FRIZZELL bas laid down bis
burden at the invitation of the Supreme Grand Master "to come ap higher."

Past Grand Master GEORGE E. DOWLING ascended the platform, and, calling the
Grand Secretary from bis chair, In a speech full of hnmor and amusing reference,
presented Bro. OoNOVEB, the Grand Secretary, with a Grand Secretary's Badge and
Jewel. The Jewel, a magnificent and expensive one, is faithfully described in Bro.
DowL:nm's address, which we regret we cannot qaote in fall in presenting it. The
Grand Secretary, so says the reporter, stood his ground bravely until a fl ..sb from
the diamond centre made him involuntarily "dumb and blind.'' Bro. Co!IOVER is
said~ be convalescent and promises his friends to make a proper re~ponse next
summer.
By the adoption of a report of the Oommittee on J arisprudence, the loss of one
eye, the other being good, is not a disqualification in Michigan.
Bro. CONOVER presents the Report on Correspondence , a review of fifty-eight
Grand Lodges, with his osaal modest reference to himself and his work. In bis
o_pei;iing, mentioning the principal topics of discussion among correspondents, and
Grand Lodges, Bro. Oo110VER writes as follows of perpetual jurisdiction:This subject is receiving considerable attention from the thinking minds in
~ason~y. ,Some jurisdictions, oar own among the number, hold that once a petitioner 1s reJected b,l' a .Lodg~, be never can become a Mason without the consent of
the Lodge thos reJect.ing him. A man may remove to another State and achieve
high and honorable distinction, bot he is debarred from the benefit of Masonry 00 •
less t~e Lodge to w_hi~h .he once petiti?ne~ shall consent to release Its jarisdlotioa
over him. Some jur1sd1ct1oas deny the Justice of this position and provide that after
the. !_apse of one year a. rejectl?n becom!ls nail and ~oid and the applicant is free to
pet1t1oa els.ewbere •. Thie bas •. ID some mstances, given rise to warm discussions,
and sometimes strained relat10ns between sister Grand Jnrisdictio11s. Daring the
past rear the Gra~d Lodge of MissiBBippi formulated a set of roles regarding this
qnest1on and submitted ~hem to all American Grand Lodges, asking their adoption,
to. the end that Mas~mo law as rel~tes to this particular question, might be made
amform throughout this country. This matter has come before many of the Grand
Lodges, aad solll:e h_ave accepted and othe~s h .. ve rejected the proposition, so the
matt~r still remains. ID a~oot its former co~d1tion. The writer believes that this is a
step ID the right d1rect1oa and that the time will come when there will be this desired uniformity of law upon this question.

MINNESOTA.
. ' The Grand Lodge of Minnesota held its forty-second Annoal Oommonication in
the city of St. Paul, January 16, 1895,-the M.·.
OALVIN L. BBo_w11. Grand
Master, R.·. W.·. THOMAS MoNTGOMRBY, Secretary. One hundred and n1Dety·two of
the one hundred and ninety-eight Lodges on the roll were represented. There were
also present eight Past Grand Masters, two Past Deputy Grand Mas~er~, ~!even Past
Grand Wardens, and the Representatives of thirty sister Grand Jar1sd1ct10ns.
A fine portrait of Grand _Master BBow11 graces the proceedings. A Lodge of
Master Masons having first been opened.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap·
lain.
The Grand Master named the standing committees and then del~vered bis Annual
Address.
The Grand Master alluded to the formation of the Grand LodgeJforty-one years
ago, and congratulated the brethren on its wonderful growth and prosperity. He
referred to the repeated visits in the following words:Death bas Invaded oar ranks, and the highway of life over which we are all pass·
ing bas broo11ht some of our brothers to the river's ed11e, and they have crossed ov~r
to their Jong home. No more in this life shall we meet or greet them, but there is
comfort in the thought that when we reach the other shore, there we 1!1BY find those
who have. gone before as, watching and waiting to welcome us to theu "home be·
yo ad the ekil'B."
The Grand Master also referred to the distinguiAhed dead of sister jurisdictions,
and exiended the sympathy of the Grand Lodge of Minnesota to the afflicted jaris• dictions. In the report of his official acts, under the head of decisions, we find but
oae of general importance, and that we quote as advice good for aay Master of a
Lodge to bear in mind when presiding at a Masonic trial-it will apply in California
as well as Minnesota :4.. In answer to the numerous questions for info.rmation:concerniag the proper
conduct of a Masonic trial, I advised that snch tnal should not'be conducted as

w.·.

138

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

·trials In our civil courts are condncted. All technical objections and dilatory
motions ahoold be brushed aside and the merits of the matter io hand at once approached. Wh ..t is the troth 7 And, when foood, do the fact!< show nnmaeooic coo·
dnct or a Me.sonic offense? The question•, and these alo oe, should be thoaght of.
The good of .Masonry is always at •take in matters of this kind, and the brethren
should always have this important fact ia mind.
Three dlepeneatlooe for the formation of new Lodges were granted.
The proposed aoiform rules concerning jurisdiction over candidates, proposed
by the Grand Lodge or .Mississippi, were submitted for reference by the Grand
.Master, with a recommendation for their fall cooeidere.tioo.
The Grand Lodge of Minnesota bear~ apoo its roll two hundred and one chartered
Lodges, with a ruember•hip of 14,543 :Master .Masons,
The Committee oa Jarieprodeoce ma.de the following reports, which were adopted
by the Grand Lodge:Yoar Committee oo Mnsonlo Jarieprudeooe, to whom was referred that portion
of the Grand Master's Address relating to two rules adopted by the Grand Lodge of
Mie•leeippi, conceroing jarisdlctloo over persons rejected for initiation, and over
Entered Appreuticeeand Fellow Crafts petitioning for advancement, where they have
removed their place nf abode within the jurisdiction of another Lodge, which roles
were enbmitted for the consideration and action or this Grand Lodge, having con•idned the same, fraternally recommend a non-concurrence In the rules suggested.
In the opinion of your committee such rules are io conftict with the role governing
thi• Grand Lodge relating to excbsive jnriediction, e.ad rule No. I leads to or invitee
a violation of the •ecrecv of the ballot.
Yoar Committee on ·Maeooio Jorieprodenoe, to whom was referred that portion
of the Grand Meeter's Address relating to a. commµnlcetion from a committee of the
Grand ~ of Wiecon•in, approved by Grand Master W. 8. S.i.wn:R, concerning
reimbur•ementR for relief extended to needy brethren, having duly considered the
same, fraternally report, that the rnle adoped and which prevails in this Grand
Lodge jurls~iction is that the wayfaring brother in. distre•e is entitled to relief from
aoy .Masonic brother to whom he applies, so far as his ability will permit, without
injury to himself, aod that this relief should be ex·teoded without hope of fee or expectat.ioo of rewl\rd. Thie Grand Lodge has, by affirmative regulation, enacted that
no brother or subordinate Lodge extending roller to e. wayt'e.riog ·brother in distress,
•hall apply for or ask. directly or indirectly, reimbursement or reward for eoch relief, and we deem such role as reftectiog the true an.I correct principle aod be.sis for
Masonic relief. Your committee recommend that this Grand Lodge fraternally decline t~ acquiesce io the proposition made.
·
The Grand Lodge, by a uoaoimooe vote,
Resol!led, That the tba.nke of this Grand Lodge are doe, and are hereby tendered,
to .Ja3per Lodge, No. 164, of Rush city, for the 11:raod display made by them of the

true priocinlee of Masonic charity during the great forest confiagration which visited
this State dnrinir the past year, contributing, as they did, so liberally of their means
to the relief of those who suffered thereby, without expectation of return or request
for reimbursement. We can only add this onr testimonial to the joy which Olla the
hearts of those who know that It is more blessed to give than to receive.
.Ao oration was delivered by the Grand Orator, W.·. Bro. A. B. CROSSFIEitD; His
subject was: "The origin of Me.sonic principles, the formation of the Masonic
society, and what Masonry le.''
The State of Minnesota is divided into thirty-four districts, eaoh being enpervleed
by a. District Deputy Grand Master.
·
Bro. GEO. W. PBEBOOTT, California's Representative near the Grand Lodge of
Mlnoeeote., was not present dorlog the se11eioo.
The Report oo Correspondence is presented by Chairman IRVING TODD, for th.e1
committee; be gives us a. review of 6.fty-eeveo Grand Lodges. As to qoo.litlcatlooe,
B EDGES of Montana, gives Bro. TODD the following certificate of character:Bro. I:svING TODD, whom we had the pleasnte of meeting at Chicago Congress,
again tl!tere the foreign transactions for home conenmption. His editorial experience stands him in good stead. He quotes more than we contd, and condenses hie

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Oalij<Wnia.

139

own observations io the briefest ep&.ce. He never straddles a question, bnt le all oo
one side or the other and never ekolkiog to escape a shot. He does .Montan~ for
two years, and seem~ to have erroneously imbibed the idee. that we never mies a
ball or ask leave of absence till all is over. Ir he ~l\d ever seen us attempt to wade
through e. cotillion b~ would know that e. majority of the fun be longed to the
spectators.
, Under Alabama, Bro. TODD Raye io reply to Bro, PILL~N~, of Alabama, diecoseiog the true definition of. the word " claodeatlne ":To be recognized as a Mason at home an Americ~o ~it!zeo. moet .receive th~ degrees in accordance with the regul\1-tiooe of th~ jur1ed1cttoo ·~ winch he ree1d~e.
There can be fJO deviation from this role, nor is the uolverealtty of the Fraterotty
effected in the eligbteet degree by its literal obeernoce.
Under California Bro. TODD comments upon the volume of business transacted
by the Boards of Relief, upon the progress made by the Widows' and Orphans'
Home, the reports of Committee .on Jorisprndence upon sundry subjects, the
oration of Grand Orator EUGENE N. DEUPREY, and the Report of Bro. ANDERSON
on Correspondence. Bro. TODD explains io the matter of" the rigbt of a Past Master
to open a Lodge io the absence of the Maete_r and Wardens" that the right is a
conHtitotlonal one io Minnesota, which it is not io California, hence .what is right In
Minnesota le wrong io California, for we are creatures of the law, especially the
" local law."
or the representative system, under Keotncky, Bro. TODD writes :We do oot ahare in the growing prejudice against the system. It was or~glo~lly
intended as a compliment to craftsmen. of a national reputation, and a mer1tor100•
appointment Is still creditable to all concerned.
In reply to the comments or onr good and now sincerely lamented Bro. VAUX,
Bro. TODD writes the following io vindication of the purpose and good results or the
Masonic Congress :The fraternal Congress aocompllehed precisely what was <'Xpected. It" was. a
representative gathering of many of the beet known Me.eons of the. conntr.v , and its
coor.lueioos have been reproduced quite generally for the lnformat100 of the Craft.
Yet the personal ncqoaintance, the meeting of old friends face to face for the firRt
time, was after all the great feature of the gathering, and the good results are already apparent in the correspondence reports. We regret the absence or Bro.
V .i.ux and several others who shoo Id have been there. ·
We quote horewith two Wisconsin deoielone, with comments by Bro. TODD, which
we copy as s11ecimene of h·ie economy in the nee of words, evidenced by hie "to
the point'' sayings:9. A brother who ha.R regularly petitioned a LodgA, filed hie dimit, aod been
elected, is a member It, whether be signs the by-laws or not, and the Lodge bas
joriedictloo over him •
12. There is no law. of the Lodge or Grand Lodge to pr1>vent a virtual Paet
Master sitting lo a Convocation of actual Past Masters.
And Bro. Toi>D comments:
Number nine may be in accordance with Wisc.oneio law, bot ca!1 a memb~r be
bound by regolatiooe to which he bas never enbscnbed 7 The queet10n of jor1edic·
tloo is altogether a dillereot matter.
.
Number twelve is a stunner. If a law is needed to prevent a brother from visit·
ing a body io which he unmistakably has oo business, the sooner they make one to
that effect the better for all c~oceroed.
The M. •. W. ·, CALVIN L. BROWN was re-elected Grand Master; B. '. W. '. TBOlll.lB
MoNTGOM.B:BY was re·elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Bro. IRVING ToDD,
Hastings.
.
The next Annual CoiDmnnication will be held io the city of St. Paul, January 15,
1896.

140

Proceedings of the

1895.] •

[Oct. 9,

MISSISS IPPI.
ation
. The .Gra.nd Lodge of Mississippi held its seveoty-se veoth Anoua.l Commooio
Master
m the 01ty of West Poiot Febroary 1', 1895,-M.· . W.·. J. L. SPINKS, Gra.nd
re :
R. · • W. •· J. L. PowBR, Gra.nd Secretary. Two huodred and foor Lodges were
r~sented. Eleveo Past Grand Masters aod the Represent atives of tweoty-th r!e
sister Gra.nd Jurisdictio ns, were present.
to
The Grand Master delivered his Aoonal Address. He. gave hearty g~eetings
the Supreme
the assembled brethren aod joined them in grateful ackoowled gmeot 10
aod cootioRuler for hi~ goodness ~od mercy, his watchful care doring the recess,
.
R e says.ned protectJoo over their perdoos and the ioteresti of the Grand Lodge.
" While we are engaged in th d"ffi 0 It task f

f~~~;~!~fW.~~i:tb~~ d~r~:~r~:·:~;~L~~~~le~~~~:!l~I~JJlJiJ~:i~!s~~p~~~~~
10

•

e ave an a oo aoce a.od to spare.

The Gra.nd !faster refers to the death of their esteemed Gra.nd Leotur

B

RoBRR~ B. BRA!On~, ao~, io eloquent laogoage, paid tr.l bote to his worth RS ae:;ti::~
Grand

io
and fr1eod, an~ his em_1oeot q~allflcatioos for the position be or.copied
delight of
and
o
satisractio
the
to
discharged
be
stat100
which
of
duties
the
~e,
8
to the loss by
h.• br~th.re~ •. The Graod Master also alluded io terms of sympathy
ded
sister JDr1sd1ot1o· os .of bretbreo of emioeot worth aod sta.ti'oo wb o h ave prece
us
b t f
o a ew days m life's jonroey to the grave.
" Like grass before the mower's scythe
We fall and fade away!
Forgotten soon by those whose lot
Permits a longer stay."
or M.·. w...
r Io the report of ~he official autR of the Graod Master, we note ooe act
Io these
B o. SPINES, to which we would eoter a vigorous and deuided protest.
days~~ the control of executive power by written Constituti ons the a•somptio o of
absurd. We
the· d1VJ0~ "preroga tive" in the case reported by him is to ns simply
Lodge of
ar~ ~nr~r1~ed that the act did not receive the condemna tion of the Grand
MiBS1s~1pp1, bot as the subject matter is now io the haods of Bro. FRBDEBIC SPSED
shall forbear
and his Committe e on Jorlsprode oce for exhaustive treatm~ot' we
comment.
e:
The following is Grand Master SPINKS' report of the· exercise of his prerogativ
MAKING A MABON AT SlGBT.
the State of MississlJJpf
b 0.ot Jun~ lht, ah~ Shea, in Ship Islaod Harbor, and wlthio
.b '
of Masoos lo d f
Y v1r ue ~ ~ ~ •ii power lo me vested as Gr~nd Ma•ter
t e
a Lodge of Free and Accept:: Mor
State of .M1ss1•s1pp1, I o~gaoized aod opeoed
asoos,
:
compoRed of the following members
M
J. L. SPINKS, G. M. Bod Member of Latuierda u Lodge~ No 808'as w• •
C. 0. 0LRMENTS, S. W. of McLeod Lodge, No. 424, 811
A. J. P.11cK, J . W. of Lauderda le Lodge, No. 308, as J . W.
0

w:

io bePast Grand M:aeter A. H. BABKLiEY made an interesting report and addreBB
half of the Widows' aod Orphans' Home.
of Hinds
From t.he. j~uroal, we oote that Hon. WILEY J. TINNIN is 8 uativ~
&fisslssi i
couoty, M1ss1ss1ppl, and oor Most Worshipfu l brother also represents
pp
oear the Grand Lodge of California .
the
cootaios
Lodge,
Graod
the
of
n
The death roll for 1894,. of the jurisdictio
oames of ooe huodred and sixty-six brethren.
" Meo are such s.tatr as dreams are made of
Aod our little life is rounded with a sleep.'"

t

I

Grand Lodge of Oal,ifon1ia.

141

This cor·
The doties or Becreta.ry are of the first importanc e io Lodge affairs.
following deresponden t writes whereof he baa knowledg e when he endorses the
work. It
scribed "register and cash book " as the system most desirable io ·Lodge
ready for the
is simplicity itself, and the books are l.o thirty minutes time always
Fioaoce or Aoditiog Oommitte e.
for years,
Bro. Taos. H. CASWBLL of our Grand Chapter has osed the system
correct.
and endorses all we write io its favor; it eaves much labor aod is absolutely
What more can be desired!
l in
Bro. SPEED preseote it to the cooslderat ioo of the Gra.nd Lodge of Misslselpp
tbe followiog words. Uoder a report OD the State of the Craft, he says:this com·
Under the bead of recommeo datioos, made by Masters of Lodges to
: A Perpetual
mittee, to be presented to the Graod Lodge, we note the followioghereto
attached
Register and Cash Book, described by Bro. SPERO in the circular
and made part of this report:"VICKSBURG, Miss., December , 1894..
Register and
" Bro. f,, W. SWAFFORD, havlog devised a form for a 'Perpetoa l the
neceBBary
Cash Book' for the use of churches, it occurred to me that by me.king
Masonic aod other
changes in the form of eotries it coofd be adapted to the use of
furglance,
a
at
and,
Lodges, therehyre duclog their book·keep iog to the minimum,
1tives
nishing a record of each member's status. As modified by me, his Register
Date of Birth,
all the requir~d ioformatio o regarding a member's Name Nativity,
cash account,
when Ioitia.ted, Passed, Raised, Admitted, Fees, Dimissioo, heath, aod
entries
additional
ooly
tile
made,
all embraced tn one line. Once the entries are
Thi• is so
required, fur a great oumber of years, are the annual payments of does.
has but to see that
slmpliHed that Ill the end of each year the Fioaoce Oommittee the
Secretary during
four columns are correctly footed, to show all the receipts of
be ascertaine d at a
can
him
by
received
the year. At any time, the exact amount
Treasurer and his
glance. By compariso n with the record of payments to thepe1soo
receiving the
receipt, and the list of warrants issued and the receipt of the cao,
io half an hour,
comcittee
the
same, both of which are showo io one book,
of the
make ont its report with ao absolute certainty that it is a correct expoeitioo
lost vouchers
firiaocial condition of the Lodge. There is no soch thing possible as
bookflc
scieot1
of
or mistakes; io brief, it is simplicity itself, aud oo knowledge
colomos of eotriee
keeping is necessary. Anyone who cao correctly add up the six
, can
aod subtract the expenditu res from payments to the Treasurer by the Secretary
Secretary and Treasaudit tbe books. There ia oo chaoce for a dispute between thereceipt
mooey
the
for
his
because
urer as to sums paid over to him by the Secretary,
issued " shows :the
must appear over his own signature. The "list of warrants
them. The Tre88orer
entire traosactio o, wheo iasued, what for, aod who receives the
ditrereoce between .
for
has bot to produce the warrants paid by him aod account
has paid him
the amonot of warrants and the sum his signature shows the Secretary
to close the aceooot of the year.
which the
with
"A oother important feature in this Register will be the facility
with
annual retnros can be made to the Uraod Lodge, lnsoring absolute certainty
•
the minimum amouot of labor.
upon
"The Register will have the Name, No. aod Locatloo of the Lodge stamped
art.
the cover io gold letters, and will be a creditable sample of the binder's
cash, seot to
"The price of the book is ten dollars. Orders, accompan ied by theach
book havJ,. W. SWAFFORD, Vicksburg , will be filled in order of their receipt-e
ing to be made specially for the Lodge ordering it.
yours,
fraternally
Very troly and
FREDERIC SPEED.
ds it
The chairman of the committee has examined the Register and recommen
for its simplicity and usefnloess .
Grand
Fine portraits of M.·. W.·. J. L. SPINKS, Graod Ma.star, and the late
Lecturer, Bro. R. B. BBANNlN, illuminate this volome.
MAKJNG MASONS AT BIGHT.
The Committee on Law and Jorisprode nce reported as follows:l the Graod
We have giveo such considerat ion to so much of the Most Worshipfu
possible under
Master's Address as relates to the makiog of a M:asoo at sight, as was of
law aod one
the circumsta nces. It is a question which must be considered as one

142

ProceedingtJ of th~

[Oct. 9,

of expediency. Under the first branch, we find that this Grand Lodge in 1853
a~opted the motion of Paet Grand Master HILLYER to adopt the report of the Com:
m1Uee on Foreign Correspondence, written by Past Grand Master MELLBN, after a
motion made by Paet Grand Master SCOTT bad been defeated to spread it on the
minutes, showing delib~rat_io~, in which the right and power of ihe Grand Master to
mak~ ~asons at sight, is d1Stmctly claimed. ln a later report Bro. MELLEN asserts
tfat it blll! always been tbe doctrine of this Grand Lodge." A~ late llH 1875 the
<.rand Lodge adopted the ~lne_Lodge Text Book containing Bro. MAO.KEY'S twenty·
five landmarks, one of wbwb 1s ~~claratory.of encb a prerogative residing in the
Grand Master. In the present ed1t1on of tile Text Book there is a declaration or the
"Fnndamental Principles of Masonry," prepared by Past Grand Master HILLYER
and found amongst his papers after his death, in which the Grand Master is declared
to have ce~tain p_rerogativee, among which we find enumerated this: "To make
Masons at eight, with tbe consent and assistance of the Masons be assembles into a
Lodge." Tbe doctrine bas been controverted by some or our ablest men but so far
as the proceedings accessible at this time and place show, the action of IS53 ba.e not
been overruled, and ;emalns until ~his day as the decision of this Grand Lodge.
The !Jr~n~ Lodge_ b~vmg mad~ a deh~eran<'.e upon any question, it becomes the law,
and mdlVl_dnal op1n10n must yield to 1t nut1l reversed. The decision being in favor
of the existence of such a prerogative, it follows that the Grand Master hs.d the
right to ma~e Capt. GEOBGE ~· MADDBILL a Mason,_with _.the assistance of a corupet~nt ~umbei of the brethren !n an emergent Lodge m which he presided. The anest10n is altogether _too volnmmons to admit of a careful examination under the circnmeta!'ces by wh~ch we ~re surrounded. While this committee are not prepared
to admit that the nght eXtsts at all, by virtue ·of any ancient law or usage they feel
bonnd ~y the ruling of the Gund Lodge in 1853, and therefore it is they' reach the
concln~1on that the Grand Master's act, in making a Mason at eight, was in accordance with the declared law of th_ls ?r~n~ Lodge. }tis. not in harmony with many of
onr laws, which are based upon Jur1sd1ct1on; doe inquiry being made as to the charact&r of the candid!lte; the unanimone ballot; that a Mason shall hail from some
regular Lodge, and numerous other provisions cif onr code of laws bot it is not distinctly forbidden anywhere. If the prerogative exists at all, it i! superior to the
modern law and cannot be abrogated.
. As a qnestion of ~xpe~lency, your committee are nnanimoue in the opinion that
if the prerogative exists, 1t ought not to be exercised under any circnmatancea whatever. And in ~xpressing this op_inion we do not wish _to be nndetstood Bll cri.ticisiny
th_e ac~ of the Grand Ma•ter, for _if be bas the prerogative 11 certainly is discretiouary
with _him wbetbe~ be will exercise it or not. The wisest and greatest Masone, not
only m our own brdnd Lodge, but all over the world, have radically differed regarding t~e powers of the Grand Master, and while one asserts the existence of the pre~ogat1~es claimed for the o!llce, ~nother u~terly denies them to have any foundation
Ill Ancient Maeonr~, a.nd believe him to be simply 11.coustitutlonal officer, bonnd by the
declared laws of his Grand Lodii;~- W'.Jie!e there is encb a diver.ity of opinion, no
one can be censured f<?r exerc1e111g ~1a Judgment. We concede this right to the
Gra~d Master , and1 wh~Je not a~pr~v1ng the act, _we cannot deny to him the right,
and if he baa the right 1t surely 1e discretionary with him whether he will exercise it
or not.
On motion of Bro. M. M. EvAmi, so fnucb of the Grand Master's Address as relates
to "making a Mason at sight," and so much of the report of the Law Committee as
refers to same, was ~ecommitted to the Committee on Masonic Law, with directions
to further examine the question and report at next Annual Communication.
The report of the committee, with this exception., was then adopted as a whole.
Section 6 of Rules and Regulations was amended to read as follows:No M~son, elt~er a.e principal, agent, employe, or in any other capacity, shall
•ell int.oXJcating liquors to be used as a beverage, and the penalty therefor shall be
expnls1on.
Special Communications were held during the year at Baird, May 3, 1A94, for the
dedicat!on of T. J. Oatchings Lodge, No. 394, on Joly 11, in Meridan, on April 19,
at Lexmgton, and July 6, 1894, at Starkville, when the several corner-stones were
placed in accordance with the time honored ceremonies of the Craft.
Pa.et Grand Master and Rev. ANDREW H. BAB.KLEY submits the Report on Corre.
spondence. .Bro. BARKLJ:Y writes a most interesting acconnt of the condition of the

.

1895.J

Grand Lodge. of Oalifornia.

143

Masonic vineyard, and although no supreme questions.have been raised for eolotion, be finds food for thought and comment in the steady growth and adoption of the
principles and tenets of '' the great society" to the progress and prosperity of man•
kind. lie gives generou@ approval to the record of bis California brethren, bids
them bold fast to the doctrines and lessons or the fathers, and avoid the tendency
to change its time honored precepts. Having devoted all the space at onr disposal
to Mississippi, we must close with a few words of Bro. BARKLEY'S conclneio~. He
•
says:The ripe frnlts or another year's labors have been gathered in-the golden grain
harvested-stored away in the bin, and now naught but the· joyful song of the sons
of toil is heard as they pnt away their reap books for a time t.hat they may rest,
refresh tbem•elvee, and thereby renew their strength, to enter with fresh vigor upon
the duties of another sea.eon or active •ervice.
The 11tleanlngs in the Masonic field during the put year have been as remunerative end the fruits culled as luscious a.e in years gone by. There are no clouds
abov~ the horizon to threaten the peace, disturb the harmony or arrest the progress
of the onward march of Freemasonry.
Tbe great tenets of the institution have been illnetrated in the lives and !lOndnct
of the common brotherhood in diepenaing relief among the needy and distressed.
The broariest measure of intelligence is essential to the full understanding of the
pure principle and sublime mysteries of the science or Freemasonry. The more we
study this science, and the more light that is thrown upon its abstruse problems, the
grander do thev become to the Masonic student, and, so far from being satistled with
hie present attainments, be plies himself the more diligently, if perchance be may
in the end attain unto the object of bis search-a more perfect knowledge of those
things which are shrouded in mystery.
There is not, neither can there be anything progressive about it save as to a more
perfect knowledge of It, and a fuller nnderstanding of its sublime trnth_s.
We received it as Ancient Craft Masonry, and so It must ever remam-pnre and
nnadnlterated-withont change or innovation from any source whatever or by
whomsoever ordered.
We have reached the en'd of our labors and therefore make onr adien. To the
hrotberbood throughout the world we say, a happy New Year. To the Unild
universal, we extend the fraternal band, with the earnest hope that a land of peace
"nd plenty may be your abiding place.

M.·. W.·. JAMES T. HARRISON was elected Grand Master; R.·. W.·. J. L. PowEB
wall re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Past Grand Master A.H. BAR.KLBY,
Crawford.
MISSOURI.
The Grand Lodge of Miseonri held its eeventy-fonrth Annual Commnnication in
HABBY KEENE, Grand Master, R.·.
the city of St. Lonie October 9, 1894,-M.·.
W. ·.JOHN D. VINOIL, Grand Secretary. Two hundred and seven chartered Lodges
w.ire represented. Twelve Past Grand Masters and the Representatives of nineteen
sister Grand Jnrisdictione were present.
California's Representative, W.•. JOHN E. RYLAND of Lexington, was not present.
Bro. CHARLES H. BRYAN represents the Grand· Lodge of Missouri near the Grand
Lodge of California.
In his Annual Address the Grand Master, after a fervent acknowledgment to
Almighty God for being permitted to assemble in this eevP.nty·fonrth Communication
as a Grand Lodge, welcomed the brethren as the representatives of the thirty thou·
sand Masons of Missouri, bespeaking for them during the labors of the session that
concord and harmony always expected in the deliberations of a body of Free and
Accepted Masone.
In memory of the absent ones-the Fraternal Dead-the Grand Master said~-

w.·.

Within oar own borders and throughout the country the Dread Messenger has
been at work. The fireside and .Lodge have many vacant chairs. We can only bow
our beads in bumble submission to an all-wise God.

144

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

Sickness had prevented the Grand Master from making a general visitation of the
.
Lodges.
The Grand MBSter had refused permission to all proposed parades, either on the
Fourth or Jnly or on Memorial Day.
The Grand Masters of Missouri and Indian Territory are debuting the question of
"What is the residence required of an applicant for the degrees of MBSonry that
carries jnrisdir.tion with it?"
Two Masters were suspended-one for" beating and ill treating a bro~ber who
bad gone to bis house for instruction "-probably be refused to conform to the "uni·
form work."
Under the bead of Decisions, the qoeetioos asked and ruled upon are local qoeetione, relating to the business interests of the Lodges, and their government under
,
the law of Missouri.
W.·. Bro. LEROY B. VALIANT, Grand Orator, delivered an eloquent oration, for
which he received the thanks of the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Lecturer, Bro. ALLAN M0Dow11:LL, with his BSSistaote, exemplified the
three degrees before the Grand Lodge during the session.
The correspondence between the Grand Masters of Indian Territory, referring to
question of jurisdiction-Mr. B. F. L., a gentleman doing business at Checotah, Ind.
Ter., bot olaiming his residence within the jurisdiction or lJecatur Lodge, Missouri,
where he bolds hie legal .residence, does his banking business, and exercises his
rights BS a vo~r. petitioned Decatur Lodge, No. 400, for the degrees. The question
arising in the Lodge as to jnriedio&ioo, t.be inquiry was made of tbe Grand Master as
to their right to receive and act upon the petition. From the Grand Master'•
response we qnote the following:

Missouri baa a roll of 561 chartered Lodges, with a membership of 30,122 Master
Masons.
The Report on Correspondence is by the B. •. W. •• Bro. JOHN D. VmoIL, Committee. He presents a review of the doings of tllty·two Grand Bodies in bis nsnal
thorough manner, although Bro. VIllOIL says:The conditioos surrounding the writer during the preparation of the foregolog
pages have been anythiog bnt satisfactory. Thrown out of the regular lioe of work
by an enforced absence from the post of dnty, detained from home for weeks by the
famous strike, coilpled with an oousnal press of work within a short llm!t, the closing np of my review is far from pleBSiog.
He says, further on:Its length aoooys me. I am glad the end la reached. I have no complaints to
make conceroiog the times, even if they are ont of joint. I have been treated be1ter than [ deserve-better than I have been to myself.

The law requiring twelve months' residence to qualify a petitioner is the same in
Missouri BS in the Territory.
The Grand Master of Indian Territory, in his response to the Grand Master or
HIBSouri, says:-

Referring to this case the Committee on J ur!sprndence report:lo the complaint of Oheootah Lodge, No. 74, lndil\n Terrltory1 against Decatur
Lodge, No. 400, Grand Jnri~dictlon of MiBBoori, for invasion of jnnsdictlon, the boot
has got on the other leg, making a pair, and your committee are of' the opinion that
the application of the facts in the determination of the law wlll oot consistently per·

145

mit this Oraod Body to sustain the oploioo of our Grand Ma~ter, while we endone
hie judgment in holding It for enbmlssion here. Onr law prohibits a Lodge from
receiving or entertaining a petition for the mysterlea of MBSonry, " nnlees the peti
tlooer shall have resided twelve montba In the State, eix of which shall have been
within the jurisdictioo of the Lodge. By residence, as here need, ia meant a permanent, settled domicile or fixed abode."
Resideoce, .not citizen•hip, is the essence· of the rule of law. Abode is the past
tense or perfect participle of the v11rb abide, whloh means to live, to remain, to
reside, Abode-having lived, remained or resided. The facts, admitted by Deoatur
Lodge, ~ o. 400, show ao abode lo the Indian Territory for six or seven years, with
cootioning prospective. The evidence from the other side not only corroborates,
but I~ atrongly in addltioo to the establishment of residence there. Were this all of
the law and !acts, it is enough ; but for our side of the case we are estopped by
uther law. If the fac~s claimed by Ohecof.ah and Decatur Lodges are true, which
can be from their respective standpoints, then the petitioner hBS oo residence or
.
fixed ·abode.
With this view of the cBSe oor law also deals, by Sec. 194, which reads: " A
Lodge cannot receive the petition for the degree& of one who hBS no residence-no
settled home." We therefore recommend that Decatur Lodge, No. 400, return the
petition and fee to Hr. B. F. LAli'J.TETTll, and that Its prooeed!ngs thereon be held
•
for naught.

A profane has some rights thl\t must be considered, even by .Mason•. Mr.
B. F. L. make• oath and claims Missi•uri as bis home. It follows, then, that he carries with that claim his Masonic right and allegiance. Even though he is doing
business at Checotah, it appears that he is passing to and from Missouri and the Territory continuously.

Under this law we claim that Mr. LAF.t.YXTTB, and every other man who has lived
in this Territory for twelve months and is now living here, if he wishes to beoome a
Mason must petition a Lod¥.e in this jurisdiction. No o_ther Lodge in the world has
the right to receive bis petition. When a person petitions a Lodge here, we do not
BSk where be is from or if he ever intends going back, whether it be England or
Missouri. Yoo see, my dear brother, your law as well BS oor own requires actual
residence as a requisite; no ml\tter about his swearing where bis home is-that does
not alter our laws, nor even his voting doesn't. Yon BSk, who does the fixing of
his residence? He does, by actually living in the Iudiao Territory- the same thiog
ackoowledged by Lodite No. 400 of Missouri.
There are about 40,000 white me n Iii this jurisdiction who have lived and done
business in other countries besides this, and hundreds of t hem now do their b!!.okiog
in Kansu, Missouri and Texas, and have other business interests iu those States
and many other places; bnt still we claim, aod the Masooic world says we Ji.ave the
right to this claim, that If any of those meo wish to become Masons, they mnel petition a Lodge in this jurisdiction. This position we are bound to maintain, otherwise
we would have no j urisdiction over any white man living in this Territory.

GTand Lodge of Ool,ifornia.

1895.J

I

I

Bro. VmOIL, yon were disgruntled when yon wrote the foregoing. We are sure,
if yon oonld appreoiate yonr wor!t " BS others see it," yon would be better satisfied
with the report of .Missouri's correspondent.
The review of California is of the administration or Grand MBSter CHi.llLliS R.
GBITll.t.N, who was laboring under the shadow of his last illness dnrlog the session,
and in a few months thereafter was sorrowfully laid away by bis brethren to await
the summons of the resurrection. Bro. VrNOIL notes the illness of the Grand Mas.
ter and the performance or bis duties by Past Grand MBSter CoNKLIN.
The .Address of the Grand Master Is commended BS "essentially a bnsioess
document."
The work of preparation for the establishment of onr Home Is notloed and favor·
ably commented on.
Graod Secretary JoHNBON's work aud reports are pronounced able exhibits of
the official traosactions of bis office, and dne credit accorded him for the creditable
discharge of his official duties. And Bro. VIKOIL, being one himself, ought to know
all abont It.
Bro. VINOIL gives favorable. notice of the oration of Bro. EUGBNE DEUPRBY,
Grand Orator, an·d compliments, lo earnest words, the Correspondence Report of
Bro. ANDERSON, He closes his review of Bro. ANDBBso:s's work with these kind
words:-

10

146

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

1895.]

I take leave of Bro. A.lfDEBSON and his admirable review, which I cannot nndertake to notice in detail, with regret, expecti~ in the near fnture to breathe the
flower-le.den air of California, and mingle with the brethren oo the Coast, whom I
have loog desired to meet. I bid Bro. ANDEBdON aod the Oaliforoia bretltreo a fraternal " good-bye."

I am eorprised at the following declarat.loo from Bro. SINGLETON: "We do oot
believe that th~re is another Grand Lodge anywhere which oooeeots to the doctrine
that the Grand Master cao set aside the Coostltutloo of hie Grand Lodge whenever
he, lo his judgment, may wish so to do." My eorprise at each a statement, c.oming
from a Mason so conversant with the doin~e of Grand Masters io this country, is
!er7 great. I do. not hesitate to affirm that the !Dajority o~ r.raod Masters of Gral!d
Lodges In the Umted States, assume aod exercise this thmg· called prerogative, 10
setting aside eolemoly enacted laws aod graotiog permiseion to Lodges to do tbiogs
that are inhibited by the law. Bro. SINGLETON thinks that the Ritual gives the
W. M. of a Lodge absolute power, aLd that our jurisprndeoce governing him as a
presiding officer, directing the business traosactioos of a Lodge, has beeo coofouoded
with the rltaal. I want to say io conclnsion that the prerojl'ative dogma held iu
such high favor by many of the Grand Masters and Gra.ild Lodge• of this country, le
a feeble attempt to imitate and exercise the powers that originally were cl"imed by '
a king, aod these prerogative defeudere thioli that the kiog cao do no wrong.

We quote the abo•e to joio io the surprise expressed by Bro. Sr11GLETON at the
statement of Bro. VllfCIL. We do not think It poasible that a majority or any considerable number of the Grand Masters of our Grand Lodges are so disloyal aod
false to the general plan and groundwork of MaRoory as to sd aside, and thus defy,
by the exercise of dispensing power, a provioioo, requirement or inhibition of the
Constitution of the Grand Lodge which holds their allegiance aod solemn promise
for its maioteoaoce aod support.
The JC.'. W.'. J. B. THOMAS was elected Grand Master i the Ji.-. W.'. JOHii D.
VINOIL was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Oorrespondeot, Past Grand Master Jon11 D. VINOIL, St. Louie.
MONTANA.

The Grand Lodge of Montana held its thirtieth Annual Commnoicaf.\oo lo the
city of Biilings oo the nineteenth d11y of September, 1894,-M.·. W.·. F. O. WBBBTJ:R.
Grand Master, R.·. W.·. OoRllBLIUB HBDGES, Grand Secretary. Thirty-three Lodges
.were represented. Five Paet Grand Mastera answered to roll call.
A portrait of Grand Master WEBSTBR ie published in thie volume.
The Gra.n d Master delivered hie Annual Address. Thanks were otfered Divine
Providence for protection and permieeion to assemble once more in Annual Seasion
for the cooslderatiqo of measures of interest to the great family of Free and
.Accepted Masoos.
·
The shadow or death had fallen upon the Jorisdictioo, and the Grand Standard
Bearer, Bro. WILLIA.II IJAl!ILTON, was of the number chosen. Atfectiooate mention
is made of the death of Bro. HEZEKIAH L. Bos111u, former Grand Secretary of Mon·
taoa, but of late years a resident of California and Grand Prelate of oor Grand
Commaudery. A well deserved tribute ie paid to the Masonic chdracter and service
of Bro. HosMER by Bro. CORNELIUS BEDGss, Grand Secretary, and inscribed upon a
memorial tablet devoted to his memory.
The condition of the jorledlctioo is satisfactory, and, with one exception, perfect
harmony prevails.
Among his official ac:ts the Grand Master reported the case of a demand for visit"
ation by a former rejected applicant. The Grand Master ruled that provided be had
left Montana after his rejection and resided cootiooouely ·not lees thau ooe year in
another jurisdiction, he might petition anew without the consent of Montana. He
advised a thorough investigation of the matter.

'

141

A eecood decision' was opoo a qoestion arising out of the regulation permitting
a 1 eparate ballot for each degree-a prolific s~urc~ of discord and dissatisfaotlon.
. The Grand Lodge is wrestling with the question of uniform work.
M.·.
Paet Grand Master MosES MoRBIS was·presented by the Gre.od Lodge
with a beautiful clock ae evidence of their brotherly regard, and in testimony of
their grateful appreciation of the faithful service rendered by him as Grand Master
of Masons in Montana. Bro. OoRNBLms HBDGEB was the efficient spokesman of the
Grand Lodge in making the presentation.
The proceedings of the session closed with a public installation or the officers
elect, the Grand Master being invested with the signet ring and official robes.
The final ceremonies were crowned with a delicious banquet provided by the
Eastern Star ladies, at which eloquence presided and good cheer prevailed.
Montana has thirty-seven Loqgee on Its roll, with a membership of 2354. Master
Masons.
The Report on Corr.espondeooe is presented by Bro. CORNELIUS HBOOEs, who is
always ready to shoulder any part of the work, be it ever eo difficult, to p~omote the
glory and renown of the Grand Lodge of Montana. Bro. HEDGES gives us a thor·
oogh digest of the Masonic legislation of the country lo his own disoorsive style.
Bis review of Oaliforoia is for Grand Master GBITH.A.ll'B term of office, who was,
from illnees, unable to perform t be duties ot" presiding during the session, an\! Past
Grand Master Co!Ol:LIN was called to the Grand Ee.et. Gran.d Master G~Tll.AN has
since paaeed to his eternal rest.
·
Bro. HBDGES has good words for California in her etrorte to establish a "Home,"
her donations to charity, aod the action of the Boards of Relief ae almoners thereof.
He notes the thorough work of our Committee on J urieprodence, the recital of the
matters submitted for review, aod the full reasons given for their conclusions.
Right, Bro. HBDGJIS; there are but few chairmen with the ability and thorough
knowledge of Masonic jurisprudence, acquired by experience, who have the nnself·
ish patience to devote their talents to the service of their brethren, withont the hope
of fee or reward; bot such a one is our Bro. WILLIAM C, BsLCHBB, and we like to
see him appnioiate'd and acknowledged.
Bro. HEDGES says he bas become a convert to the California regulation prohibit·
iog banqueting at· the expense of Lodge foods. All r ight, Bro. H., but yonr statement is not folly the case before our Grand Lodge. There has been for years a
growing sentiment in favor of a relaxation of our " no refreshment rule "-not a
desire to cast aside all restraints and torn our Lodges into clubs of Intemperate rev·
elere, bot to cultivate more generally the social intercourse of members, and, by
that means make Lodge meetings more like what they were Intended to be-social
gatherings 'ror the exchange of thought and pleasant converse opou matters con- .
ceroiog the welfare of the Lodge and its members. Maoy eminent brethren argue
that by a email outlay, judiciously applied, the increase of interest manifested in
Lodge work and welfare will be demonstrated, aod it will be clearly shown that
praotical refreshment Id as essential to Lodge_prosperity as good work during the
hours of labor. There is a happy medium in all these matters which should bring
about the desired remedy. The "no refreshment role," in its radical form, is the
result of the abuse of one of the ioost attractive features of Masonic commooion,
founded upon ancient custom and the practice of the time honored text, "Behold
how good and bow pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity."
As a reminder of this ancient custom, we shall carry with us to the grave a recol·
tectioo of a visit made to Tuolumne Lodge io the year 1852. The Lodge-ro11m had
been destroyed by fire in the mouth of June of that year, and the Lodge was holding
forth temporarily io rooms fitted op for the purpose in the Eagle Hotel, in the city of
Sonora. At the stated meeting in August cf that year we applied for the privilege

w.-.

Under District of Oolombia, Bro. VINCJL writes:-

Grand Lodge o/ OaUjornia.

148

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

1895.]

of visitation and foood a Lodge of forty Mesons Rssembled, presided over by Bro.
CBAHLBS M. B..l.DCLll'l', Master, aod, at the time, Grand .Master; Bro. WILLIA)[ w.
TaAYLOH was Senior Warden. It being a regolar meeting, oo work was in order.
Upon the completion of the bosioeee, principally referring to the building ot a oew
Lodge ball, the Lodge was called to refreshment, and, at the request of 'the Madler,
gathered around a table in the ante-room. There was a spread of cold meats, bread
and cheese , sandwiches aod co!fee. No set speeches were allowed, bot an io(ormal
conversation was indulged lo for nearly an hour, principally in reference to the new
hall. The Tyler was an English sailor, known as "Uncle John." At the proper
time Bro. RADCLIFF rapped aod called the Tyler, making, on behalf of the brethren,
a rl!qneet for a song. Unlike profe88iooals, Uncle John did oot excuse himself, but
cleared hie throat and responded with a rollicking song and chorus. I remember
his commencement, as he rolle.d out with his clear voice:" When Adam ruled the world by an order from the Grand,
Aud with hie beaot.eoue spouse traversed Eden's happy laud,
To build a bower, to spend an boor, to shield them from the weather evil,
Aud hie worship plan'd it out with his square, gauge, plomb aod level.
Whack row de dow, de dow, whack row de dow.

Io the mane1temeot of the affairs of this body during the past year J have
endeavored to follow lo the footsteps of my immediate predecessor, and place myself
rnther in the position of h~lper, than Master; and i.n my dealings have endeavored
to interest the brethren of sobordioate Lodges in assisting me so to oondoct the
aftalrs of the different Lodges throughout the State, that each iudividtml brother
should become a co-worker with me lo the aocompliehmeot of the greatest good for
the greatest number.
Among the decisions we uote the following:-

IS. A brother hailing from a Lodge on the registry of the Grand Lodge of
Ontario, Canada, not recognized by this jurisdiction, was, after examination, per·
mitted to vlRit a Lodge In thl• .forisdictiou 1rnd presented bis dim it with petition for
affiliation. Query. How can the brother be healed? Answer. He must receive
the degrees in the same mauocr in every respect as a profane.
Thie decision, altboogh approved by the Committee on Jurisprudence, we do
not consider good practice.
Actions speak loader than words, and that the jurisdiction of Nebraska is in good
healthy condition , with a rutore in eight, we need only refer to the following from
the Grand Master's closing words :-

That meeting baa always lingered io my memory as an illustration of the good
fellowship characteristic of the true and loyal Free and Accepted Mason. I need
hardly add that the friendships born of that m~etiog forty·three years ago were
severed only by. the deaths of Past Grand Masters Ril><lLil'l' and TB.AYLOB a few
yeal'e since.
There, we have goBBiped too long with our friend from the mountains. Good-by,
Bro. HEDGEll.
M.·. W.'.. JAMEB H. MONTBATH was elected Grand Master; B.·. W.·. COBNBLJUS
HEDGES was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Correspondent, Past Grand Master CoBNllLIUB HEDGBS, Helena.

NEBRASKA.

w.·.

The Grand Master delivered hie Annual Address. After a welcome to the brethren,
aud giving thanks to the Supreme Architect of the Universe for hie care and preservation, be called attention to the vacaut seat of B.·. W.·. Bro. LEK P. G1LLETTI,
Grand Custodian of the jurisdiction, who had for many years faithfully filled that important station. After an eloqneot and affectionate tribute to hie memory be reported that one hundred and ten of the brethren of · their Lodges had been called to
eternal relresbmeot elo.:e their last assembly. He also made appropriate mention of
the eminent brethren of Bister jorisdictioos who had been called from earthly labor

149

to dwell lo the Grand Lodge above. He recommended appropriate action by the
Grand Lodge commemorative of their beloved dead. Referring to bis official dotles,
be said:-

The song over, Bro. RADCLIFF remarked: "Brethren, our charity fund is not as
strong as it might be, and perhaps this is a good time to ooorish it a bit. Bro.
Tree.sorer, place a hat upon the table and take charge of the o!feriug.'' The Treaeorer, Bro. Cu.ABLES F. DoDGB, reported the collection of $92.50. The brethren
returned to the Lodge. room and closed.

The Grand Lodge of Nebraska held its thirty·eeveoth Aoooal Commonicatloo in
the city of Omaha Jone 20, 1894,-M.·. W.·. JAMES P. A. BLACK, Grand Master,
WILLIA)[ R. BOWBN, Grand Secretary. One boodred and eighty-eight
B.·.
Lodges were represented. Eighteen Paet Graud Mastera aod'two Paet Deputy Grand
Masters were in attendance, with thtrty·three Representatives of sister Grand Jnriedictione.
A Lodge or Master Masone was opened as required by the law of Nebraska, the
roll of Lodges was then called, and , a constitutional number being found present,
the Grnnd Lodge was opened and proclamation made .by the Grand Master.

(}rand Lodge of California.

.'

Believing that healthy Masonic literature in our library would conduce much to
the benefit of the Oraft, on January 13, 1893, I advi•ed the Grand Secretar,r to invest a email snm of from five to ten dollars lu eoch Masonic periodicals as hie judgment should dictate, for the benefit and entertainment of the brethren when called
to the office of the Grand Secretary on either business or pleasure. I recommend
an appropriation of twenty-five dollars to be invested in ~uoh Masonic periodio11 ls,
to be placed in our library for the general use of the brethren during the ensuing
year.
Followin1t thiA •object a little fortber, let me ask if we have not reached a per·
mane.nee within this Gra.nd Jnrisdictiou warranting the maiotena.oce of a properly
fitted and arranged Gra.nd Lodge office for the accommodation of the brethren?
Bhonld we not have a placn where the brethren visiting the city lo which the Gra.nd
Lodge may be held . either for business or plea.sore, can meet MasonR, interchange
idea~. discuss matters of Masonic Interest, receive the benefit of Masonic literature
and .MB!looic infloencl'ls? Under the present arrangement, at least one-half the time
of the Grand Secretary is spent in the entertammeot of visiting brethren who attend bis office, not for busiueBB, bot for the purpose indicated above, while at least
two-thirds of our diffident brethren •pend weary boors lo the hotels, or walking the
•treet• for fear of intrusion. A1taln, should any brother have business with ·the
Gra.nd Secretary, he is confronted to-day with two horns of a dilemma, either to
wait ontil bis offiM is cleared of visitors, or reqoest the Grand Secretary to leave
hie office and step with him into the hall or the corner of the stairway, where
stran1ters are cootiooally passing, and there detail to him the 'particolar Masonic
business concerning which. be bas probably traveled hood reds of miles-to seek good
counsel. Shoo Id not a remedy be suggested at once? Should we not provide a
Grand Lodge office, not necessarily expensive, but fitted with coat and grip rooms,
with a general reception room in which brethren can meet and converse, with a
reading and writing room, properly eopplied with Masonic literature; with a small
office for the Grand Master, a convenient office for the Grand Secretary and hie
clerks, and a soltable private office for the Grand Secretary! I earnestly recommend •ncb a measure, and to the end that the arrangement be judiciously perfected,
J recommend an amendment to Article 2. ~ctiou 1, of our by-laws, adding to the
llet of •tanding committees a Committee on Grand Lodge Office ; and the addition of
Article 20 to said section, which eh111l prescribe tbe members and dotiee of such
committee, and would suggest that such committee be composed of the Grand
Master, Grand Secretary, and the three Junior Paet Grand Masters.
Nebraska bears upon her roll two hundred .a ud one Lodges, with a membership
·
of 11,4.86 Master Masone.
The .Masonic Orphan Educational Fun~ bas the sum of $211,987 .50 loaned npoo

150

Proceedings of the

fOct. 9,

approved securities, be&ring rates of interest from six to ten per cent per annnm ;
certainly a good nest egg for the orphi>ns of Nebraska.
Bro. DAVID M. MoELHINNEY is the repreeentative of California near the Grand
Lodge of Nebraska.
After reciting the invitation to join with the Grand Lodge of Colorado in the
celebration of the death of Bro. GEORGE WASHINGTON, the Grand Lodge recommended as follows :·
Your committee, therefore, recommend that a committee of one, with one alter·
nate, be appointed by our Grand Master to arrange for the representation of the
Grand Lodge of Nebraska at the proposed centennial observance•, provided that a
snft!cient number of the other Grand Lodges of the United States take favorable
action npon the recommendation of the Grand Lodge of Oolorado to make the proposed memorial observl\nces a Rncccss . and that said committee report their doing
at each annual session, nntil 1899, at which time the final action may be taken by
this body.
An eloqnent oration was delivered by Bro. GEORGE D. MEIKLB.JOHN, Grand
Orator.
Bro. WILLI':i.M R. Bowm presents the Report on Oorrespo·ndence, which seems
to be so nnsatisfactory to the writer that he refuses t11e usual dedicl\tion to his
" sisters" of the different jurisdictions and switches otf into relations with .the
"follows : " All right, Bro. BowsN, for the present, bnt when we get sister snlfrage
you'll wish you hadn't.
.
Under Alabama, Bro. Bowm qnotes the Grand Ml\ster as having granted bnt
two dispensations to confer degrees ont of time, althongh having received many
reqnests for same, and to settle the matter, as hesaid, once for all, he held that in
no case, except by the Grand .Master In the exercise of his prerogative, "aoting in
perton," should the degrees be conferred except in the constitutional manner. .
We .would strike ont the exception; there is no "prerogative" in our code that
will jnstify a.n unconstitntional act.
Under Arkansas, Bro. BowEN writes, and we wish to join him in his expression of
grier:We are grieved to learn of t.he death of Bro. LOGAN H. RooTs; Past Grand Master
of Arkansas, and a Freemason of a national repntation ; he was one of the com·
mittee of Knights Templar at Denver In 1892 who ruled thl\t a Grand Lodge has the
fall power to decide what Is or is not legitimate Freemasonry, and that the Knighta
Templar are go11erned. by such d.eci1io11.
.
The most important decision made by the Grand Encampment at the Triennial of
1892.

Under California, Bro. BowBN compliments the work of the Grand Secretary as
well as the snb Secretaries for good work in being able to report " returns from all
the Lodges in the juri~diction" and all O. K. The compliment is worth " its face,''
because Bro. BowsN has been there himself and know.a how it is. .
He quotes Bro. BELCHJi:R's decision bi regard to non-a!liliates and their relations tc
oar Grand Lodge, and gives the Report of .Bro. ANDBBBON on Correspondence a
cordial reception, qnoting and concurring in the following :Common eqnity demands that a Mason who fails or neglects or refnses to comply
with t~e laws. of the Grand Lodge under w~ich he lives, and bf obedience to which
be entitles himself to :Masonic consideration thereunder, should be deprived of
such consideraUon. It is manifestly onjnst that those who bear the heat and burden
shonld be compelled to give consideration to those who, by their own !aches have
deprived themselves of any right thereto.
'
. We bave ~ever .read the rules of :Masonry or its' obl~gations as requiring as to
give any cons1derat1on, other than such as we would give to a profane, to any
:Mason who deprives himself of the rfp:ht to consideratir.n. It certainly wonld be,
ill onr opinion, repugnant to the principles of common sense to say that we are an·

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Ualifornia.

151

der any obligation to give consideration to the great &rmy of non-~ffil~a~ed Masons.

It is equally in contravention of common sense to ~ay that we mnstJod1c1ally declare
these non-affiliates an worthy before we are auth~r1ze~ to treat the':Il as such. They

have opportnnity to know the law; and, know1Dg 1t and neg!ect1Dg .or ref!leing to
comply_ with it. they put themselt1e& without the pale of Maeomc cons1derat1on. . To
ench Masons we are bound by no ties other than the ties of a common ht!mam~y,
except that we deem them in position to regain lost privileges by comply1Dg with
the law.
The M.·. W.-. JoHN A. EHRHARDT was elected Grand :Master; the R.·. W.-.
W1LLIAH R. BowEN wa~ re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Bro. WILLIAM
R. BowsN, Omaha.
NEVADA.

The Gra.nd Lodge of Nevada held its thirtieth Annnal Communication in Virginia
city June 12, 1894',-the M.-. W.-. JoBN E. JoNB8, Grand :Master, the B.-. W.·. 0. N.
NoTEWARR, Grand Secr~tary. Eightel\n Lodges were represented. There were
present fonr Paet Grand Masters, and the Bepreeent..tives of thirty-two sister Grand
Jurisdictions, California by Paet Grand Master WILLIAM McMILLAN.
Our Rev. Bro. WM. H. HILL, for many years oar Grand Chaplain, represents
Nevada near the Grand Lodge of California.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form.
The Grand Master delivered bis Annual Address. After cordially welcoming the
brethren to their thirtieth annual assembly he requested all to join him in returning
thanks to the "Giver of all Good" for their preservation and the blessings that had
been vouchsafed them in the midst of the prevailing businc8S distress, and he ex·
pressed the hope that the signs of discontent might soon give way to the sunshine
of peace and prosperity.
The vacant places in Grand Lodge reminded him rif the faithfnl workmen who
bad joined in their last response with the brethren: "the will of ·God is accom·
plished; so mote it be; amen," and in obedience to the summons had passed to rest.
He paid eloquent tribnte to Past Grand Master JOSEPH Ds BELL and Paet Sentor
Grand Wardens ALEX.lNDEB DODSON ROCK and GEORGE R. w.lLKllB, and commend~d
their usefnl and active lives as examples for all to follow.
Be also made alfecti~nate mention of Worshipfnl Bro. ADOLPH LANGSHUR of
White Pine Lodge, and Past Masters CHARLES W. GROVER of Elko Lodge, J. R.
WILLIAMSON of Lander Lodge and ELIAS B. ZABB1SKIE of .Argenta Lodge, and recom·
mended that memorial pages in the records be devoted to the memorle~ of the de·
parted brethren.
The Grand :Master extended the sorrowfnl sympathy of the Grand Lodge or
Nevada to sister jnrisdictions In the loss of eminent brethren who had passed to
eternal rest dnring the year.
•rhe cQndition of the jnrisdictlon is harmonions and" moving onward."
A charge of invasion of the jurisdiction of Reno Lodge, No. 13 , by Ro~
Lodge, No. 746, of New York ol~y, having been referred to the Committee on
Grievances, that committee reported as follows:BBETHBRN: We your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the matter in relation to the invasion of this Grand Jnrisdiction by Roome Lodge, No. U6,
New York city by the reception of a petition of one Dr. PHILLlPB, I\ resident of
Reno, Washoe ~ounty, Nevada, while o~ a visit to_the city .and State of New York,
by initiating, passing and raising the said Dr. PHILLIPS without the knowledge or
consent of Reno Lodge, No. 13, of Reno, Nevada, do mos.t respe~tfnlly repor~ th.a t
we do approve the action of said &no Lodge, N<•. lS, m deny1Dg to the said D:.
PHILLIPS the right of visitation to said Lodge, and we do recommend that the said
Dr PHILLIPS be and he i• hereby denied the right of visitation within this Grand
Ju;iM<liction, and that the Grand lll~ster be l\nd he is hereby instrncted to oor~es­
pond with the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge or the State of New Y<1rk, notify-

152

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

ing him of the invasion of our jnrlsdiction hy the said Roome Lodge, No. 7~. or
New York, and reqnt>eting that he demand that the guilty P.aniee he pnnished In
e.coorde.nce with Muonic usage and custom in ench case provided. All of which is
respectfully submitted.
The report was unanimously adopted, and the explanation of Roome Lodge le in
order.
The Report on Oorreepondence ie presented by WorsbipfUl Bro. RoBBRT LBWBBS,
Chairman. Bro. L11w11BS reviews the doings of forty-one American Grand Lodges,
together with British Colombia, England, New Brunswick, New Sooth Wales, New
Zealand, Nova Scotia., Bcoth1.nd and Tasmania, and gives us e. thorough, index of the
legislation of the Masonic world.
Under California, Bro. L11wsRB finds nothing to condtmn, bot ie favorably Inclined in opinion to the work of the Grand Lodge through its Board of Relief in the
dissemination of charity.
Bro. ANDBRSON's report is complimented, and Bro. DBUPRKY's address as Grand
Orator greatly admired.
On the representative question, Bro. L11w1ms writes:While we have expressed onr opinion In the past on this subject and pointed out
the way in which the hosineee of the jurisdictions could be carried on by mail or
telegraph, we have come to the conclnelon that the system Is worthy of being re·
tained, inasmuch as it ie e. courteous and fraternal way of recognizing sister Grand
Lodges e.nd he.s a tendency to promote that spirit of harmony which most exist
e.mong the e.otonomiee of the Fraternity.
In regard to non-affiliation Bro. LBwi!:RB, in reviewing Georgia, ee.ye:The subject of non-affilie.te• comes up for lengthy diecu881on in this jurisdiction,
e.nd we presume if there were five hundred other joriedictione it would come up in
a.II of them. It seems to oe the.t the gist of the whole matter lies in this fa.ct: We
e.11 object to the Me.son who takes out e. dimit e.nd bolds It because he wishes to
a.void the paying of doeP, or some other eqoe.lly unworthy motive. We think that
the Me.son who te.kee ont e. dimit and keeps it of hie own free will and accord, and
is willing to contribute to the Grand Lodge or to the local Lodge, has a right to do
so: It ie better, however, to follow the advice of the Masonic Oongreee and belong
to some Lodge and share its burdens.
·
We think, Bro. LBWKRB, the only tenable gronnd for sore footing on that qneetion is to make It the duty of every Master Mason to bold membership in some Lodge.
Bro. L11wERS has pronounced opinions on the question of perpetual jurisdiction,
and .they are not in its favor. We think he believes with us that life ie too short,
and human natnre too imperfect, for the.indulgence of any such nonsense.
Bro. LBWBRS reports folly the proceedings and .conclneione of the Masonic
Congrese, bot as we have noticed said doings last year we ·mast pass bis interesting
report with hie opmions e.nd comments.
M.·. W.·. PHILIP A. DOYLll we.selected Grand Me.eter; V.'. W.·. 0. N. NOTBWJ.Rll
we.a re-elected Gre.nd Secretary. Bro. FRANK BELL, Reno, Pe.st Gre.nd Me.eter,
Che.irme.n of Oorreepondence.
Since writing the foregoing we he.ve received the proceedings of the thirty.first
Annoe.l Communice.tion of the Gre.nd Lodge of Neve.de. held e.t Reno Jnne 11, 1896,tbe M.'. W.'. PHILIP A. DoYL•, Or.and Master, the V.'. W.·. C. N. NOTBWA..BK, Gre.nd
Secretary. There were present three' Paet Grand Masters, the Representatives of
fifteen chartered Lodges, e.nd the Gre.nd Representatives of twenty-five sister jariedictione, including Pe.St Gre.nd Me.eter Wx. McMILLAN, who answers for Oe.lifornle..
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample form, with prayer by the .Gre.nd Chap·
Jain.

1895.]

Grarid Lod,ge of California·

15:5

Th Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. Oommencing with a fervent
ackno:ledgment of the blcseings bestowed npon them lndlvidu~lly ae Me.eons, ~nd
collectivelv as a Gre.nd Lodge, dnriog the po.et year, he deems 1t proper and ft:'.ng,
before pro~eeding to the bnsinese of the eeeeion, to pause and e.ndea~or t~ n:gd
'th memory's a.id the forms e.nd faces of beloved brethren with w om t e~ _e
wp~8Bed many yee.n: of fraternal 9.l!eocie.tion, but who, in obedience to. the dj1v1?e
·
b t to de.y He named many eminent brethren of sister nr1•eummone, were e. sen
·
•
·
h
thy of
di t"ons who bad been called from earthly work, expreeemg
t e sympa
N:v~de. in the lose soete.ined bV the bereaved joriedictioin, e.nd re~ommended the.t
memorie.1 po.gee be set a.po.rt in the joorne.ls devoted to their m~mor1ee. k" d d e.nd
In reading from the " roll of honor " the names of their ~wn m_ re
.
brethren the Gre.nd Master co.lied one whose familiar fee.~nre~ huge~ wit~ ue and
brio 8 to mind pleasant remembrances of Me.sonic 8.88ocle.t1on rn Ce.hforma.d Bro.
TaoeAs J. D1111:a was formerly e. resideut of Ang.ls, Calaveras connt~, an ;as
Meeter of Bear Mountain Lodge, No. 76, located e.t Angels Oam,p, as '.twas t ten
r.\led e.nd e.lthoogh nearly forty yea.re be.ve intervened, Bro. Tox s gemal, hear y,
:e.nl ' wa ~ a.re e.s fresh in our recollection ae thongh of yeeter~ay. Bro. TOM ~e­
mov:d to' Nevada in u Bonanza" times e.nd he.s resided there smce-God give him
rest.
Th" Grand Master reports the following satisfactory sol u.t'ion of e. viole.tion of
Neve.de.'s juriedictione.l rights :-

• In the me.tfor o~ the PBI~1!p~c:e.s~ ~efj~~: .:lo~eB e.htrbe.~Ja:iO.:~:~~l Je~Y::~:
cation, I commumce.ted wit
• •. • ' 1 e tre.~sactions of Roome Lodge 111
who co.used bis Gr,.nd Seforetar~ t~ ~nv~~tlgft~:'.i \\iat
the Lodge we.• Innocent ~I' any
the ce.se, and by pe.pere orwe.r e 0
has been en:ffic lently punished for h•e part
intentional _wrong,
as Bro. P~rt;;~1: 8tho edict of oun-visite.tion be removed.. ~ud
in the alr..1r' I wobu lrlecomd~~nvisit or affilie.te with any Lodge in the jorledioUoll
that Bro Pn1LLIP8 e a owe
.
upon coi°nplying with Seotion 4 of the General Uegu1e.t1ons.
The Gre.ad Me.stet' evidently bas no leaning towards the road that leads to Rome.
He says:.
.
M
th t
ft et dnty is to God, the~eecond
Brethren, I be.ve bee~ftaogbt as e.f t;:~~ut; I
1 ;our;e.ttention to the fe.~t that
to my country. In pel ormance 0 · h ve for centuries tried tn
the Roman Pon tilt, who , e.s well Ae ht • prede~~~d~~· th: Pe.pal ban three distinctly
crnsb our beloved Fraternity, ~.e.h nowufd~~~lce.te that the Pope reels assured tbe.t

au

':!J

~::~~o:~J~i~~~o~~~~r~~~:{~·h: ti1~ve;no~~~; ~~ ~t~s ~~~~~~~ ~o d~~~~~l~~e !~~:hc!uoJ

its people. Ae Masone it ecom~e our _
p teote.te from obtaining control
tlo e.11 iu our P?wer t o. prevetn:;: 1:h~~1:~y-b:~~t~~ogn~ivibzation be.ck to the days of the
of oar ooontry s gove1 nmen
Inquisition.
.
• w.. Bro FRANK BELL made tbe report of the committee upon the report of
M• • ' ·
•
·
'
w.·..Bro. RoBllBT LBW&BB, delegate from the Gre.nd
Lodge 0 f N eve. de. to ·the
Fraternal Congress held at Ohice.go in 1893.
The closing words of the committee a.re a very complete summary of the full
report.
The Conimittee on Jurisprudence me.de e. report upon th e um·rorm rules. proposed
.
by the Gre.nd Lodge of Mississippi. They conclude tbe.t rule } ."is lncons1?te~t.with
Me.sonic prncedure and its e.ppe.rent desire for perpetoe.I jurisdiction predjnd1c11u to
the interests of all 'other Lodges th,.n the one first a.pp i·1e d to. "
.
Rule II they se.y is more consistent, "but in that we would etnke out the.first
provision nnder the rnle that the 8econd Lodge ie ae able to judge of the que.hfice.·
tlous of its ce.ndide.tes, e.nd bl\s the ea.me incentive to gn~r~ t~e P?r~ls of Ma~~y
e.nd e.dmit none bnt those duly quo.lifted, e.s that of the M1ee1ss1ppl 1ur1adictlon.
The report we.e nne.nimouely adopted.

154

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

M.·. W.'. JORN Z. HAZLE'l'T was elected Grand Master; V.•. W.'. OBAKLBB C.
NoTEWARE wee re-elected Gr11nd Secretary. Chairman of Correspondence, W.·.
Bro. RoBEBT L11wBJl8, Reno.
The next Annnal will be held in the tow'n of Winnemucca Jone 9, 1896.
NEW BRUNSWICK.

A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge of New Brunswick was held in the
city of Saint John on Fridav, the twenty·seventh day of April, 189i, to pay the last
tribute of respect to the Temains of the late Grand Secretary, V.·. W.-. Bro. T. NrsBET ROBERTSON.
The Grand Lodge of New Brunswick held its twenty-seventh Annual Commonication in the oily of Saint John August 28, 1894,-tbe M.·. W.'. TROll!AB WALl:EB
M. D., Grand l\fl\.~ter, the V.-. W.'. F. W. W1BD0111, Grand Secretary. Eightee~
J,odges were represented. TbeTe were twenty·three Representatives of sister Grand
Jurisdictions present-California not represented.
Bro. EDWARD CoLEllAN, Grand Treuorer, represents the Grand Lodge of New
Brunswick near the Grand Lodge of California.
The Grand Mester delivered bis Annual Address. He said:Once more I take pleasnTe In bidding ~·on a hearty welcome to our Annual Com·
monicetioo-praying that the Grand Architect of the Universe may bless our conPoltations and lllhors, and that our meetings may be harmonious and pleasant.
Another year hlle pa~sed, with its joys and sorrow•, its enconragemente and dieappointments; and it now becomes my duty to render to you an account of my
official acts dnring that peTlod.
.
It Is a eoorce of great satisfaction to me to be able to report that, daring the
year just pllB•ed, peace and harmony have prevailed within our border•, anrl that a
fair measure of prosperity has been vouchsafed to the Craft.
Again the melancholy dnty devolves· opon me of recording the death of an emi·
oent fellow·lllborer. Again have we heard thl'I near beating of the death angel's
pinions, and again havP. we looked upon the fresh tokens of oar common loBB.
On the 25th of April la•t, died at hi• home in St. John,
W.'. Bro. T. NISBET
RoBBRTSON, In the term of bis office a• Grand Secretary. Ilia worth as a Mason, as a
citizen, a• a man-the sincere mourning of per•onal friends and of the general pnb·
lie-of fellow·crartsmeo and of fellow·cltizens alike-have attested better than conld
any prlliBe of mine to onr lol!l!.
Zealous and energetic in all labors of public and common interest, be brought to
bear on them the •ame methodical boeinees·like habits and calmness of judgment
that marked h.is P!ivate affairs. Jn him the Fraternity has lost a good and faithfnl
crllftsman. His thirty-one years of work iu Masonry are now all over, but bis ex·
ample still lives to the laating good of the Craft.
In view or the fact thal be died in his term of office, and as a tribute to bis zeal,
activity and capacity aa a Mason, and a proper tribute to hi~ memory, J deemed it
right thl!ot Grand Lodge itself should assume direction of those laat sad rites we pay
to the dead.
·

v.-.

The Grand Master also read from the dellth roll of the year the name of Bro.
Jo1EB HuMPHBRY, who died in Montreal, and called the attention of the brethren
to the names of many illnetrious Masons of sister JpTisrlictione who bad gone to
rest daring tlie ~·esr, and said," let us recorJ our sympathy with them.".
The Grao<l Milster reported bis official acts, giving the condition of the joriediction as eminently satiafactory. He reported the proceedings and concloeione of the
Masonic Congree• held in Chicago in August, 1R93. He also submitted for the con•
eideration of the Grand Lodge the "Mississippi Rules as to Uniform Jurisdiction."
The Board of lleneral Purposes lldnpted the following resolutions and presented
them to Mrs. ROBERTSON:.
" Re~olT!ed, That the Board of Gen..ral Purposes of the Grand Lodge of A. F.
and A. M, of New Brnnswick, in making a record of the death of Bro. T. NISBET

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

155

RoBBRTBON, recently its SecTetary, expresses at the same time its sense of the loss
the CTaft has sustained by the death of a membeT who for over twe.nty years devoted
himself earnestly and faithfully to the administration. of all ~he at'faJTs brought befor~
the Boud, who was constant in attendance, carefol mall his .metbo~, and tboroog.
and exact in the peTformance of·his dnty, gi~ing to the. ad!01nlstrat1on of the bosh
ness of the FrateTnity the advantage of' experience, a w1ee Judgment and a thorong
knowledge of aifairs: therefore
. .
"Reeohltd, That the Board, whilst thus expreeemg 1ts sorr?w at th e death of BO
excellent a member, is sensible also or the great loss the fam!IY of Bro. RoBBRTBON
has sustained in the removal of it~ head, and express to them its deepest sympathy
in a dlspenRBtioo which bas taken from them a kind · husband and father, and a
tender and raithfoi protector.
New Brunswick bas npon its roll tbirty·foor constituent Lodges, with a member·
ship of 1788 Milster Masone.
The M.·. w;•. Tao111AB WALKKB was re·elected Grand MRBter; the V.'. W.-.
FBB&lllAN w. WISDOM wBB elected Grand Secretary.
NEW HAMPSHIRE.

The Semi-Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of New Hampshire was
held in the city of Manchester December 27, 1894,-the M.'. W.'. CHARI.KBC. HAYES,
Grand Master, the R.·. W.'. GEORGE P. CLEAVBB, Grand Secretary. There were preeent seven Pa~I Grand Masters, and the Representatives of twentr·three sister Graud
Jorisdictiooe, with ·the Master, Wardens or Representatives of fifty-four constituent
I:odges.
The Grand Lodge was opened with prayer by the Grand Cbapiai .
The work was exemplified by conferrinir the three degrees upon candidllteB who
bad been previooaly elected in Lodges No. 7, i1 ·and 61.
Jewels were presented to the Grand Treasnrer and Grand Seo.re~ry .as a toke~ of
the appreciation by Grand J,odge of the faithful aervice of the d1St1ngo1Shed recipients.
The Grand Lodge of New Hampshire held its one hnodred and sixth Annnal
Commnnicatloo In the city or Concord May 15, 1895,-the M. '. W.'. CHARLKB C.
HAYE•, Grand Maater, the 8.'. W.·. GEORGE P. CLEAVES, Grand Secretary. There
were present eight Past Grand Masters, twenty-seven Representatives of sister
joriedictions, and the Masters, Wardens or Representatives of flfty·eeven dnly coosti·
toted Lodges.
The Grand Lodge wBB opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap·
lain.
Aft~r the appointment of committees the Grand Milster delivered hie Address,
Pxtending a fraternal welcome to all the brethren assembled either as members or
visitors and retnrning thanks to the Supreme Being for the privilege of meeting
once m'ore to deliberate' opon measures relative to the welfar11 and prosperity of
Freemasonry in New Hampshire.
Under the head of Necrology, the Grand Master called the attention of the
brethren to the vacant places caused by death daring the year, and paid eloquent
tribute to the memories of Paet District Deputy Grand Mutere BillUBL S. ~'LBTOBBR,
ALBKBT BABKllR, GEORGE F. HORN and MARTINE. You1m.
In reporting hie official acts the Grand Master mentioned the dedication of a
monument to Put anrl the first Grand Maater of Masone in New Hampshire, General
JOHN SULLIVAN, soldier, statesman, Mason. The ·orand Master says: "Even•
Mason In Ne;, Hampshire was honored when the Grand Lodge received the invitation to dedicate this monument."

156

Pr~edings of the

[Oct. 9,

The reported d~cieione of the Grand Master are controlled by the local Jaw and
'
are not of importance in other jnrlsdictions.
The District Depnty Grand Masters made full detailed reports of the condition of
.
their respective districts.
The Committee on Jurisprudence, Bro. Jos11Pa W. FBLLOWS, Chairman, presented
an elab~rate an~ able report on the right and dnty of the Grand Lodge to the Craft
under_ its obed1enoe to declare what bodies and organizations, claiming to be
Maeome, are regular and lawfol In a M11sonic sense. The report was adopted by the
Grand Lodge.
The jurisdiction of New Hampshire numbers on its roll seventy-eight Lodges
'
with a member~hip of 8,838 Master Masone.
Bro. ALBllBT S. WAIT, Chairman, presents the report for the Committee on Correspondence in an able review of fifty-seven Gra~d Lodges, and as Bro. WAIT is
reported as one of the ablest contribnton to the literature of American Grand
Lodges, it_ Is b.ut trnthfol tribute for th is writer to say that in this his last report he
fully snsta1ns Ins well earned repntation.

In hi~ review of Arizona , and referring to the Address of the Grand Master, Bro.
·
·
WAIT writes :The Grand Master diecnssed at considerable length the subject of non·affiliation
and the Committee on Jurisprudence, beatowing a paragraph . upon the subject'
recommended an amendment of the Constltntlon r~lat.ing to It so as to read ae fol'.
lows:
It i• ~he duty of every Mas~r MBRo.o to be 11 member of some Lodge, and every
non-affihated Mason who, bav~ng .resided six months within thisjnriedictioo, shall
refuse or neglect to mak~ apphcat100 for membership to some Lodge therein shall
be deer:ned unworthy of ·Ma•onic consideration, and shall not be entitled to ~or be
the recipient of any of the rites, privileges or charities of the Order
_Thi~ amendment, . if 11.oally adopted, seems to steer clear. of the very eeriooe
~bJect1on to the leg1elat10n of onr brethren of California and some other jurisdir~1one upo'! ~he enme subject. It doeA riot attempt to place the party, without trial,
10 th_e po•1t100 of an expelled Mason, to be so treated in other Maeooicjorisdictiooe
and m other brao.c~ee of the Mas?nic Fraternity, but simply denies him, still being
a Mason, the pr1v1iegee of the institution. As we understand it, the amendment
does not assn me that each a party could not be received in either the Chapter or the ·
that he coul~ not apply for affiliation to a LO"dge in any other Grand
Comma~d~ry!
Lo~ge ~ur1sd1ct1on: Not. eaymg that we are In full sympathy with this proposed
leg1elat1on, we thmk It is far lees objectionable than that of" the jurisdictions we
have alluded to.

or

.

1895.J

Grand Lodge o/ Oalifornia.

157

are impreBBed with tho belief, founded upou an experience of forty-live yeara_io
Masonic assemblies, that the eoaotmeot of strioge.ot regnlation(deoyiog the right of
a Lodge to use its foods for the cultivation of social intercourse among its members,
is a mistake and a departure from the original plan of Masonry.
Bro. WA.IT writes words or praise for the able reporls of oar Committee on Jorisprudence. Ala•, the seat so long filled as Chairman of that commitee by that
Prince among Ma~ooe, the learned scholar and jurist, Bro. WILLIAM CALDWBLL
BBLCHBB, is now vacant ; a few days of illoeas and his great mind closed the record
of a blameles~, nseful life, and crossed the river to await the summons of the general
resurrection.
" Fast as the rolling seasons bring
The hour of fate to those we love,
Each pearl that leaves the broken string
Is set in friendship's crown above.
As narrower grows the earthly chain
The circle widens in the sky;
These are our treasures that remain,
But those are stars that beam on high.''
For coorteons mention arid kind words the writer retnros his acknowledgments to
Bro. WAIT.
Tbe M.·. W.·. 0BARLBS C. HAYES was elected Grand Master; the R.·. W.·.
CHARLES P. CLBAVBS was re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, ALBBRT B.
WAIT, Newport.
NEW JERSEY.

The Grand Lodge of New Jersey held Emergent Communications for the constitution of chartered Lodges and for the placing of the corner stone of the New City
Hall, at Paterson, oo the 26th of March, 1894.
This Grand Lodge held its Annual Commnnioatioo, it being the one hundred and
eighth, in the city of Trenton January 23, 1895,-the M.·. w.·. JAMES H. lluBAND,
Grand Master, the R.·. W.·. THOMAS H. R. REDWAY, Grand Secretary. One hundred
and llrty-oioe Lodges were represented. Six Past Grand Masters, three Past
Deputies and one Past Grand Wardeo answered to roll call. Thirty-one sister jurisdictions were represented, including Oaliforoia, whose proxy is M. ·• W. •• JosBPH
W. CONGDON.

As the ab.ove. quoted amendment is an exaot copy of Section I, Article 2, Part 5,
of the Coost1tnt100 of the Grand Lodge of California, we conclude that Bro. wA.ITS'
spectacles were <.out of joint or our law improves by a change of jnrisdictioo.
Referring · to the qneiltion asked oor Grand Master, "can a Lodge inetrnot ~
Master to vote a certain way on a questloo that is expected to come before the
·
• ·
Grand Lodge," Bro. WAIT says:The Co~mltte~ _on Jurisprudence examined this question at great length, and in
an exhaost1!e op101on reached. a conclosioo o.ppoaite to the decision of the Grand
Master, holdrng that, by the anmeot regulation and the establiRhed law of Masonry
Lodges have lhe absolute power to ln•truct their Masters and Wardens how to vot~
n_poo ques~lons to .come before the IJrand J,odge, i.od to bind them by such ioetroct1_oos. _Tbid doctrme of the committee we some years a~o contended for in some
disco~s1ons the~ had. We do no~ in the le11st doubt its correctness, and are glad the
questlo~ has arisen and been decided, after full and solemn consideration by •O able
'
a committee as that of California.
. Bro. WA.IT. demurs to the decision of oor Grand Master, affirmed by our Committee on Jur1sprodenoe, relating to physical qnalillcations, and also &he doctrine
held in the· " Wisconsin resolntioos~" He quotes ue as being in eympl\thy with our
Bro. PILI.ANS, of Alabama, on the "social feature qoestioo." Hight, Bro. WAIT ; we

The Grand Lodge was opened with prayer by the Grand Chaplain with music by
the Grand Oboir.
After a fraternal greeting to the brethren, and thanksgiving to God for his preservation and guidance during the pas& year,. the Grand Master directed their attteotioo
to the v11oant places in their circle. Io reading from &he death roll he named
eminent Masons who bad completed their earthly pilgrimag'e and passed to rest
forever. Among these oar .R.·. W:·. Bro. HENBY VBBBLAGK was named as a well
known brother who illustrated, lo hie dally life, the principles and tenets of Free·
masonry.
After giving proper record of their own kindred and brethren the Grand Master
reported the names of many honored and ill11strions brethren of sister Grand J orlsdictions who had passed to rest daring the year, and recommended thai; the names
of these honored brethren be properly inscribed on memorial pages in the minutes
of this Annual Communication.
A dispensation was granted for the formation of a new Lodge at Butler, Morris
oonnty.
The Grand Master submitted the propositions he was invited to consider by the
Grand Lodges of Mississippi and Wisconsin without recommendation.

158

ProceedingB of the

[Oct. 9,

The Grand Master had his attention directed to a violation of the jnrisdict!onal
rules existing between the Grand Lodge of New Jersey and her neighbors, the
Grand Lodge of New York and Pennsylvania, which he thoroughly investigated,
and, io the ahseoce of intentional disregard of the law, healed the initiates in the
interest of peace and harmony.
The Grand Master refers to a claim of our Board of Relief for the care of ooe
Bro. J.E. BALL, a member of Samaritan Lodge, No. 98, of New Jersey. We do
not desire to reopen the qoestloo as to the liability of somebody to reimburse our
Board of Relief for their expenditure io behalf of Bro. BALL. It Is fortunate for
Bro. BALL that his chance for relief did not have ·to await the decision of his New
Jersey brethren as to their liability to aid and assist him io his extremity.
_'l'he Oommittee oo Grand Lodge Charity Food submitted the following report,
which was recsived, and, oo motion, their recommendation was adopted:The Grand Lodge Charity Fnod Committee would respectfully recommend that
the last payment made by the lll.·. W.·. Grand Lodll:'e of California, as reported by
the M.-. W.'. Grau~ Mester, be refunded from the Special Oharity Fnnd-it being
uoder~tood that this Gra!ld Lodge does oot, by this action, commit itaelf as respects
aoy fnture payments which may be made by the said Grand Lodge of California.
New Jersey hears upon her roll the "broad seal" of one hundred and sixty.four
Lodge·s, with a membership of 15,24.5 Master Masons.
The Report oo Correspondence is by Bro. HENBY S. HAINES, who takes up the
oofinished work of our brother Correspondent, HENBY VEHSLAGlll, who is resting
•
from his labors.
A fine portrait, on steel, of the Grand Master, J AHES H. DUB.t.ND,.appears on the
first page of this volume, and if there's anything in good looks our distingnished
Jersey brother ought to have been a snccess.
Bro. HAINES gives a review of fifty-fonr Grand Lodges, and comments npon .t heir
general condition as well as acts of legislation.
Under Oalifornia, he first mentions the indisposition of our Grand Master which
prevented him from assoming his part of the active dnties of the session-and which
illness proved our brother's last-for in a few months thereafter h~ pot away his
.
earthly cares and laid down to eternal rest.
Bro. HAINES writes words of commendation upon the dissemination ~f charity
by our Boards of Relief, and the progress we are making in building a Home for
oor wards.
The report of Bro. ANDllBBON is complimented:in his selection and treatment of
the varions topics considered In his excellent paper.
In his review of Kentucky he notices the many expressions of alfectiooate remem·
hrance of onr lamented brother and Correspondent, 1ll.-. W.-. Bro. HENRY VBH&LAGE,
and says:The kind words spoken of M. •• W.·. Bro. VEHBLAGE have greater value' and
deeper significance to the _brethre_n of New Jersey, now that he has gone to rest;
and those who have been his favorite companions and friends in the reportorial field
are sure of the fraternal regard of those near his home, to whom bis memory wi11
ever be a hallowed one.
In his review of Miehigan we are glad to see this endorsement of jEPPEBBOlll S.
CONOVEB, the "chief worker.''
Bay, Bro. HAIN&B, wont yon please let Bro. CONOVBB manage the Eastern Star
himself. Give him foll liberty-In person or by proxy-jnst let CONOVER alone, and,
our word for It, that Eastern Star will illuminate onr Lodges even to the north
east corner thereof. We quote from Bro. BAilllEB :The Foreign Correspondence ls for the second time from the hand of Bro,
JEFFERS01' S. CoN<>vEB. His apology for its length is needless, for he baa succeeded

1895.]

Gran<l Lodge of California.

159

in making every page of it interesting; and has displayed more than ordinary judg·
ment in his selection of points to comment npon. He •eems, however, "moved in
sundry nlaces" to advocate more strongly than some would approve that the Order
of the Eastern Star be more fully recognized by Masons, and permitted to occupy
Masonic Lodge rooms for their meetings. He declares himself not in sympathy
with a decision of the Grand Master of Ohio, holding th11t "the Order of the
Eas1ern Star, having been declared by the Grand Lodge to be not a Masonic body,
Lodge room• cannot be used by th11t order." Must we infer that he c11nsiders that
they are a Masonic body, and should therefore have a proper claim to use our Lodge
rooms?
Under New York, Bro. HAINDS says of the Masonic Home at Utica:That munificent charity, the Masonic Home at Utica, continnes the object of
admiration and of conscientious care. l'his lnstitntion ls not only grand and imposing in its constrnction, and beautiful and comfortable in its appointment.\!, bot it is
conducted on snch a generous scale as to the maintenance of its inmates that all
the comfort, and many of the Inxnrles of a refined home are afforded those com·
mitted to its sheltering care. Tlie whole cost of the establishment was long since
paid, and the arinual observance of its deliverance from the bondage of debt was
suggested end left to the discretion of snc·ceeding Grand Masters to use proper
methodd to commemorate tbis event in accordance with the wishes of the Craft.
A legacy of $5,000 was bequeathed to the Hall a1 d Asylnm Fund by Bro. EDWIN
BooTH, which it is designed to vote to the foundation of a special charity to pet'·
petuate the memory of this beloved brother. The erection of a bnilding attached
to the Utica Home, to be called "the Booth Memorial Hospital," was considered a
fitting tebtimonial; and hope was entertained that further contributions to that end
would be provided by members of the profession which he adorned, and by whom
his·memory is revered.
A number of other bequests and donations for special pnrposes stlll further
attest the benevolent generosity of onr New York brethren.
The M. •. W.-. CHABLBS l:IBLOH&R was elected Grand Master; the R. •• W. ••
THOHAB H. R. REDWAY waR elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, R.·. w.·.
Bro. HENBY s. HAilllllS, Bnrlington.
NEW MEXICO.

The Grand Lodge of New Mexico held its sixteenth Annual Communication in
CHABLIIS H. SPOBDllLllB,
the city of Albnqnerque October s, 1894.,-the M...
ALPHEUB A. KEE.II, Grand Secretary. Thirteen Lodges
Grand :Master, the
were represented. There were present four Past Grand Masters, one Past Depnty,
two Past Grand Wardens, two Past Grand Treasurers, and the.Representatives of
eleven sister Grand J nrisdictions.
The Grand Master declared the Grand Lodge open, and proclamation was made
by the Grand Marshal. The Grand Master delivered bis Annnal Address, in which
he reported his official acts. No decisions. of general importance were rendered.
The Grand Master congratulates the brethren npon the ere·c tion of a M&.Bonic
Temple at Las Vegas, and looks npon it as a sure forerunner of the prosperous
future of the Grand Lodge of New Mexico.
In regard to non·affiliates, the Grand Master says:-

R.-. W.-.

w.-.

1 am strongly impressed with the conviction that it will be for the best interests
of all those to whom Masonry is something more than a name, that a more clearly
defined by-law in the ca•e of non-atliliatea may be adopted by this Grand Lodge,
that will free the working bees from the incubus of the drones (the non-affiliates),
and enable us to more clearly establish th.e actnal status of those applying to ns for
aid.
The Grand Master had made a general visitation of the Lodges of the jnrisdic·
tioo personally and by deputy, and gives a very satisfactory acconnt of the condition
of Masonry in New Mexico.

160

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

The Gr&nd .Master is a strong advocate of the claims of the National Home for
consumptives, established al Santa Fe.
The GT&nd Lodge of New Mexico bears upon its roll seventeen active Lodges,
.
with a membership of 763 .Master .Masons.
l"Fine portraits of Past Gr&nd Masters C. N. BLACKWEl.L, Grand Haste~ In 1886-7,
and W. S. H.t.BBOUN, Gr&nd Master in 1887-8, ornament this volnme of' proceedings.
The Report on Corresponden ce is presented by Bro. MAX FROST, who reviews
the proceedings of forty Grand Lodges, and comments upon their legislation.
California probably was not received, as It does not appear in the li11t.
Bro. FaoST, in his review of Alabama, Arkansas and Arizona, takes decided
grounds in opposition to the use of "Cipher" reminder• in .Masonic work, and is
a( positive in the opinion that a candidate should be able to conform "literally" to
the reqnlrements of Masonic teachings. He says be bas endeavored to treat only
or matters of live interest. to the Craft in bis jurisdiction, that bis brethren may be
informed as to the trend or Masonic sentiment tbronghont the world.
The M.'. W.·. J. J. K.BJ,LY was elected Gr&nd Master j the R.·. W.·. ALPHEUS A.
KEBN was re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Jlro • .M.t.x FROST, Santa Fe.

The Second Quarterly was held December 131.h, 1893,-tbe Provincial 'Grand
.Master presiding.
The Pl'ovlncial Grand Master announced that the l?enior Grand Warden, R.·. W.'.
Bro. JosN P. HUVPHBJEs, bad sent in bis resignation of that office and also of bis
position OD the Board or General Pnrpoees.
·.rbe Board of General Purposes reported for the quarter ending November, 1893.
We quote the following items:GJUND Looo~ 01'. NEw YoRK.-A letter was received from the Grand Lodge of
RepreNew ~ork, no~1natrng R.·. ~.-. Bro. CHARLES T. McCLENJ.CHAN ·as Grand
sentallve of this Grand Lodge ID New York,oice R.·. W. ·. Bw. PHILLIP c. BEN.JJ..llIN,
nom·
brother
the
of
appointment
the
~eceased. The Board decided to recommend
mated.
REPORTJNG M~SONIO PROCEEDINGS IN THE PUBLIC PRBBS.-lt baa been reported
to the Board that 1t bas_ been :the cnstom of some Lodges to oanse reports or their
proceedings to b~ pnbhshed 10 the pnblic pre8ll witbont having first obtained the
necessary ·a uthority. The Board desires to drnw the attention or W. • Masters and
Secretaries to the fact that this is a breach of Olause 131 of our Constit~tions, which
renders the Lodge hable to be prooeeded against nnder ·Clause 1.33.
The Grand Inspector of Workings submitted bis report.
The Board of Benevolence reported the receipt of· .£386.6 relief for the quarter.

161

· The Third Quarterly was held March Htb, 189f,-the Provincial Grand Master
presiding.
The Board or General Purposes reported for the quarter ending February 28th,
1894.
No business of special importance wae reported.
The Grand Inspector or Workings made bis ·report, showing the same careful
supervision as in former reports.
The Grand Secretary reported payments and returns from 190 Lodges.
The Board of Benevolence reported recelpls for the quarter .£369. 7.0.
A Special Commnnlcallon was held Jone 12th, 1894,-tbe Deputy Grand Master,

R.·. W.·. Bro. N. HOPSON, presiding,

The last Quarterly was held June 13th, 1894,-the R.·. W.·. Deputy Grand Master,
NlOHOl.AS HOPSON, presiding.
The Board of Benevolence reported the total amount of relief granted for the
year ending May, 1894, £1,316.8.0.
A Special Communication was held Joly 19th, 1894, for the Installation of the
M.·. W.·. the Grand Master, Hie Excellency Sir ROBERT WILLI.t.M Dun, P. 0.,

NEW SOUTH WALES.

The United Grand Lodge of New South Wales held its Qnarterly and a Special
Oommnnication for the year ending June, 1894, in the city of Sydney, in September
and December, 1A9a, and March and Jone, 1894; a Special Commnnication being
•
held Jone 12th, 1894.
The Grand Lodge was opened in its First Qnarterly Communication, September
13th, 1893,-the M.·. W.·. H.t.BMON J. TABIUNT, Provincial Grand Master, presiding.
Tb.e death of several distingnisbed brethren was annonnced.
The Board of General Pnrposes reported for the qnarter ending Augnst, 1893.
T.be Jurisdiction of New ~outb Wales nnmbers 214 Lodges, with a membership of
8,112..Master Masons.
The report of the" Inspector of Workings" Is a very iuteresting paper, showing
a close snpervision of the Lodges In the work and lectures of the degrees, and also
·
in t~e keepiug of the records, financial system, etc.

Grand Lod.ge of California.

1895.]

G.C.M.G.
Bro. C. G. Ew1NG, Representativ e of California near lhe Grand Lodge of British
Colombia, was present at the installation. ·
NEW YORK.

'

The Grand Lodge of New York held its one bnndred and fonrteentb Annual Commnnicatioo in the city or New York, Jone 4th, 1896,-tbe M.·. W.·. JOHN Hooo11:,
Grand Master; the R.·. W.·. EDWARD M, L. EHLBBB, Grand Secretary. Eleven Past
Grand Masters, and the Representativ es of fifty-five sister Grand Jurisdictions, with
the Masters, Wardens or delegates of 726 chartered Lodges, responded " present" to
roll-c;all.
The thirty districts .of the State were represented by their respective District
Deputy Grand Masters.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master delivered bis Annual Address, first giving the brethren cbeerfnl
salutation upon their assembling to consider the duties of the session, and to pay the
tribute of sincere atrection to those faithful brethren who, daring the recess, bad been
relieved from earthly labor and passed to eternal rest. The venerable Grand Tyler,
Worshipful JoeN .HooLE; the distinguished Past Depnty Grand Master, whose fame
as a wise and accomplished .Mason Is without bonnds, B.·. W.·. ROBERT .MA.coy; the
faithful Past Grand Treasurer, JOHN J. GoBJUN; with many other eminent brethren,
have been called to refreshment, and are, we trust, enjoying the rewards of lives
.devoted to the Grand Master's service,
The Grand Master, while remembering the absent ones of their own kindred and
brethren, pays tribute a!S'O to the many eminent .Masons of sister jurisdictions who
have obeyed t·be eumruone, and extends the sympathy of the Grand Lodge of New
York to the bereaved Grand Lodges.
The Grand Master made full report of bis official acts ; or bis visitations and
general duties; be granted dispensations for the formation of four new Lodges, and
submits, with the pride of one rejoicing in the enccess of a great and glorious undertaking, the snccessfnl execntion of the designs upon the "trestle board,; for the
organization and establishment of the New York Masonic Home.
Corner-stones were placed, nnder the direction of Grand Master HoooE, at
Rochester, Rome, Poughkeepsie , and Binghampton ; the last one named being for

11

162

Proceedings of the

· [Oct. 9,

the erection of " The Commercial Travelers' Home." The Grand Master delivered
eloquent and appropriate addresses at each ceremouy.
From the report of the Grand Secretary we learn that New York has under ite
jnrisdictlon 734c Lodgee, with a membership of 88,573 Master Masons.
The Grand Treasurer reportedOn band; ..................................................... $ 1.9,1.30 13
Recelpte for the year ..•••• :.............. . ..................... 70,678 16
$120,108 29

Paid out, including $10,000 to permanent fond for investment. . • • 72,910 18
Balance on hand May 16, 1895 ••••••.••••.•••••.••••• $'7 ,198 11 .
0

The Trustees report In Permanent Food, $31,1.00.40.
A summarized cost of the Home and appurtenances makes the total cost to date,
$260,869.97. Tbis magoiftcent establishment Is a monument to the virtue and liberality of the Masons of the Empire State. It Is now performing the work. for which it
was designed, and is sailing on upon the foll-tide of successful experiment, with a
cash balance in ite fonds of $20il,221.01. The Home is located at Utica, and ls nuder
the immediate care of Past Grand Master Jsssz B. ANTHONY, Superintendent.
At the session of 1891., a commission was appointed to review and revise the
Constitution and Statutes of the Grand Lodge. This commission, consisting of uine
emineut brethren, performed that duty and submitted their report at t.he present
session, which was approved and adopted so far as the same could be done at the
present sesRion.
R.·. W.·. GEORG.II H. RAY"OND, Grand Lectnrer, in consideration of mauy years
of faithful service, was contiuued in office for life at the salary appropriated for that
office, viz., fifteen hnodred dollars.
The Oommittee on Jurisprudence present this very interesting case lo their
report:Morning Star Lodge, No. 65, of Canisteo, Steuben Coouty, lo the Tweuty-third
Masouic District, applies to the Grand Lodge for relief from its present embarrassmeut, arising from the fact that since the last election and installation or its officers,
the Master and Beuior and Jouior Wardens have removed from the county and district
in which the Lodge is located, and are consequently unable to attend the Oommuoj,
cations of the Lodge. The question presented is, how can the Lodge, in the absence
of these three warranted officers, continue ite meeting and work 7 These officers are
represented as being ready and willing to do aoythioir within their power to assist
the Lodge in its dilemma, bot they are confronted with Section 12 of the Statutes,
which forbids a Master or Warden to resign; and Section 13, whiclt enumerates the
only cases in which a vacancy in office in a Lodge can occur, does not mention
removal from the district or State as one of such cases. Hence we are compelled to
hold that the removal of their places of residence by the Master and Wardens of this
Lodge does not create a vacancy in any ofthelr respective offices.

It seems strange to as that in revising their organic law our brethren of New York
did not provide for cases like the one above quoted, by striking out Sec. 82 of Art.
xn, relatfog to .. tennre of office."
Jo California we provide that vacancies may occnr by death, resignation, soepen·
sion or expulsion, or removal from the jurisdiction. We have never heard any good
reason urged in support of the prohibition to Master or Wardens of the right to
resign in case of incapacity from any cause.
Oar brethren of New York say he may die but must l!Ot resign. We consider the
restriction a violation of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitntion, and insist
that a Mason in good standing, be he a Master or Warden, has as clear a right to
resign as he has to die or go away. However, its none of our bnsinees and we pass.
The election of officere being held, the M.·. W. •. JOHN HoDGE was re-electeJ

1895.]

Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

163

Grand Master. The Grand Master acknowledged the compliment, bot urged his
exemption from farther labor for business reasons, and was excnsed.
In reviewing the proceedings of the Grand Lodge of New York, we are impressed
with the strength of a jurisdiction nomberlog 734 I,odges, peopled by 88,673 Masons,
and we are surprised that this great body of citizens conld, by organization and
bnsiness methods of their creation, so prepare and cJispatch the indispensable business
of so important a body in the brief space of forty-eight hours. We simply leave It
for some other fellow to aocooot for.
Before closing, an excellent oil painting !Jf Paet Grand Master FBEDBBICB: A·
BUBNRAM: was presented to the Grand Lodge, as the gift of admiring brethren, and
was received on behalf of the Grand Body by Paet Grand Master JoBll W. VBOOM:AN.
The Report on Oorreepondence is by Bro. JESSE B. ANTHONY, Paet Grand Master.
He gives a careful review of the legislation of our Grand Lodge, with special refer·
ence to the reporte of the Oommittee on Jurisprudence. Hie oonclosion of the matters
snbmitted by the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin is in the following words:·
We do not favorably regard the general principle of reim~nr~ement as a part of
Masonry We believe in the fo!Hllment of all bounden ohligat1one, whether as an
individo~I Mason or as a Lodge-t.he complete discharge of a known and asenmed
liability-and we have conftdence to believe that there are very few exceptions to
t.he foll eii;erciee of the duty of a Lodge toward ite own members or to a Lodge which
fraternally acts for them.
we fall to apprehend the necessity or the enactment of any general regnlation of
this nature between the several Orand Bodies. All claims of this character, eapeciallly
of a sobject of difference, shonld be susceptible of amicable adj!1etment. ..
We ellould be decidedly opposed to any Grand Lodge assommg the pos1t1on of a
Gnarantee Oompany.
Referring to the matter of personal jurisdiction and the ruling of the varions
Grand Lodges upon the question, Bro. ANTHONY says, under District of Colombia:. While jnrisdlction may not be claimed over a profane who had never applied for
the degrees and had permanently left the jurisdiction, we should consider that tb&
acqnirement of a Masonic residence within the jnrisdictlon of the Grand Lodge of the
District of Colombia should be at leaBt the time reqnired In the jurisdiction from
which he had removed, being in the State of New York twelve months.
And he quotes from Bro. SINGLETON:In this connection we would remark that no one can be dlmitted except a member
of a Lodge. An Ent~red Apprentice or Fellow Craft is not a.m~mber of a Lodge.
An Entered Apprcntlce or Fellow Oraft, therefore, cannot be d1m1tted.
However, let as examine this question from another standp.ilnt.
.
In all Lodges outside of the United States, Eo~red Appr~ntlces constitute th.e
membership, and they are invariably granted "certificates of discharge" from their
Lodges when so desired.
.
In the United States, except a very few Grand Lodges, it has been the cns*om
to grant" certificates of discharge " to Entered Apprentices or Fellow Oratts who
permanently remove from the jurisdiction of the Lodge where initiated and passed,
and other Lodges receive these "certificates" in lieu of regular "dimite." .
.
Ji is contended by some Grand Lodges that no other Lodge bot the one 10 which
the candidate was initiated or passed can finish the work ; and hence, however inconvenient the oofinished " block" most be carried to the original "shop " to be completed.' Should the shop be destroyed in.any 11!-aoner, then.what? We are not a.w11:re
of any plan by which the work can be ftn1shed m such an event under these jnr1sd1ctione.
"'ft•
For our part, so far as at present advised, we see noval'1d reason"! h y soch cer.1
cate may not be isened when there Is permanent removal of the parties.
In temporary absence, before the 6.niehlng of the work, the mother Lodire can
request any Lodge, convenient, to do the work for her, and this is the general plan
pursued.
·
Under Georgia, Bro. ANTHONY writes the following excellent and practical advice
and opinion-plain words, based on principles as sound as the Landmarks and as
good as gold :-

lfi4

Procwiings of the

(Oct. 9,

Eleven new. L?dg~s bad ~een ~reated the past year by di•penPation. Jt appears
t? us that the hm1tat1on of nme miles between Lodges is none too far in the oonntry
districts. Lodges should not be institnted solely to accommodate the brethren but
demand snmcient t.erritory to maintain a oreditable existence. Mnltiplicati~n of
small Lodges will be fonnd a disadvantage.
We shonld say the diMcnlty mentioned in reference to the advancement of Entered
Apprent!ces an~ Fellow Crafts _who have changed their place of residence could be
very easily obviated by provisions for a relioqnishment of jurisdiction or a 1·eqneet
for another Lodge to complete the work.
. The reqnirement of a Eieparate ballot for each degree (the local law), and a nnan·
1mon~ ~lectloo ~efore a candidate can be adnnced, Reeme to us an nnneceesary
r~etr1ction and hable to the abnse stated by the acting Grand Master. After a can·
d1date bas been elected, having stood the ordeal of one ballot be sbonld be entitled
to the remaining degrees as a reward for (and after) snitable proficiency.
From Bro. CHARLBB SAOX:WATBB, of the committee, we get a most nseful and
interesting repott of the condition and doings of the Foreign Grand Bodies of repn·
tatfon in the Masonic world-a compilation or nsefnl Information.
Fine portraits or M.·. w.•. JOHN HODGB, Grand Master, and W.·. JOHN ROOLK,
Grand Tyler, greet the brethren in the opening pages of this splendid volume. ·
The M. •• W. •. JOHN STBWABT was elected Grand Master; the R. •• W. •• Enw ABD
M. L. EHLBBB was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The next Annnal will be held in the city of New York on the firdt Tuesday of
Jane, 1896.
NEW ZEA.LAND.'
The Grand Lodge of New Zealand held a Qnarterly Commnnicatlon at Auckland,
MALOOLll NIOHOL, as Grand Master; the V.'. W.·.
Joly 26th, 1894,-tbe R.·.
WILLIAM RoNALDSOlf, Urand Seoretary. Nineteen Lodges were represented.
The Grand LOdga was opened with solemn prayer.
Tblf Board of General Pnrposes reported the general bnsiness of the Grant!
"J,odge, closing with the following on correspondence:-

w.·.

Yonr Board has constantly bad before it a large amonnt of correspondence, both
from our own Lodges and from many American and other Gre.nd Lodge@. The tenor
of all this has been of the most fraternal character, as has also been that from the
Grand Superintendents of this jnrisdiction, the omcers of Grand Lodges and the
'
Secretaries of Craft Lodges.
We have missed the prooeedlngs of the Qnarterly of October 31st, 1894, bot have
at bend those of the Qnarterly Communication of Jannary 17th, 1895,-tbe M.·. W.·.
Bro. FWOIS HENBY DILLON RBLL, Grand Master; the v. ·. w... Bro. WILLIAM
RoNALDSON, Granfl Secretary. A large number of Master@, Past Masters, Wardens
and Representatives of sister Grand Jurisdictions were In attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The Grand Secretary announced that he had received many apologies for non·
&ttendance from Gr&od Officers and members of the Grand Lodge.
We qnote the. following item from the report of the Board of Benevolence:In order t.hat Lodgee may know bow the Fund of Benevolence bas been disbursed
".list of gra~t~ ma.de bas been compiled, sod is now pnblisbed for general informa'.

t10n. By this 1t will be clearly seen that each Board-Christcborcb and Auckland
as well as Wellington-has acted lo the most Masonic spirit to appeals made and the
resnlt is that whilst the sum of £339.17.6 has been dl•bnrsed to other Constitutions
the snm of £25 represents all that bas been contributed to brethren who have I.Jee~
members of Lodges contributing to this Grand Lodge.
The qnarterly receipts were £1,235.8.3; disbursements .«6 lees.

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oalij<:Yrnia.

165

NORTH CAROLIN A..

A Sp;cial Communication was held by this Grand Lodge on July 4th, 1894, in the
old chnrch bnilding at Sharon Ohnrcb, Camden Oonnty, for the pnrpose of laying the
corner-stone of the Methodist Episcopal Chnrob.
The Grand Lodge of North Carolina held Its one hnndred and eighth Annual Commnnication in the city of Raleigh, January 8th, 1896,-tbe M.·. w.·. JOHN w. COTTBN,
Grand Master; B.·. W. ·. WILLIAll H. BA.Ill', Grand Secretary. One hnndred and
ninety-nine J.odges were represented. Two Past Grand Masters, a Past Grand
Warden and a Paet Grand Secretary were present, with the Representatives of twelve
sister Urand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form.
The Grand Master delivered his Annnal Addre119. With a friendl y greeting to the
assembled brethren the Grand Master expreBSed his great joy at being permitted to
meet them once more In the old familiar hall. Re spoke of the " hard times" and the
great financial depression, and yet he con!d congratulate his brethien that Masonry
had moved onward and was better understood and appreciated than ever before.
Their relations were pleasant 11nd cordial with other jnriadictlons, with peace and
·
harmony prevailing among their own kindred and brethren.
The Grand Master granted eight dlsponsatlons for the formation of new Lodges.
He made affectionate mention of the Oxford Orphan Asylnm, neminl!' it as an institu.
tion de11r to the Masons of N ortb C:aro!lna, 11nd his words are proof that be carries
1111 Its interests very near bis own heart. He nameA a Oalifornian, Bro. JAMBS A.
BlliDLBY, a native of North Carolina, who bad donated to the Grand Lodge for the
nse o'f the Oxford Orphan Asylum a vain able lot in the city or MinneapoliR, and asks
that bis generons gift receive proper acknowledgment from the Grand Lodge.
He says of the fraternal dead :l'he silent reaper has been bney dnring the ye&r, not only among onr own but in
onr sister Brand J orisdictions, where some of the most honored and distingnisbed
brethren have entered the Grand Lodge on high. Among those in our own State we
are cHlled upon to mourn are Past Grand Masters E; G. RBADB and JOHN MoCoallIOK,
both of whom passed 11way at a ripe old &ge, having been honored by their brethren
and their State. May their vlrtuons lives be onto ns as examples for us to follow,
.
that like them we may die honored and r egretted by our brethren!
The Grand Master made bot few official visitations dnrlng the year and was called
npon for few decisions.
Tbe Grand Master repeats th~ expreBSions of his great loss snstalned in the death
of the illnstrions Grand Secretary, lJONALD W. Bus, who was to him in fact gnide,
counselor and friend.
The Snperintendent of the Asylnm, In bis report to the Grand Lodge, makes the
following mention of the generous action of ·a California Mason, a native of N ortb
Oarolina, and resident until his death of the city of Oakland:1 am pleased to annonnce to the Board that Mr. JAKES A. BBADLBY, of Oakland,
Oallforola, formerly of Wilmin11ton, in this State, sent a deed, which was received on
the 22d, for a lot in Minneapolis, Minnesota, described a11 the easterly two·thirds of
lot 6 in block 49 In that city. A letter from Mr. WBBD MUNBOB, attorney-at-law in
Minneapolis, and Mr. BBADLEY's representative, gives the following Information :The property is located in the business center of the city, on the corner of Wash·
ington avenue, sooth, and Fourth avenue, sooth, directly across the street from the
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Panl Railway Depot, one block from the Chamber of Commerce and two blocks from the new Conrt-hoaee and City Hall, a building which,
when completed, will have cost $3,000,000. It Is now held by tenants npon a long
lease, running fitty ye11rs from let June, 1894, end at present brings in an income of
$1,600 per 1rnnum, exclusive of all taxes, etc.

166

Procee,dirigs of tlie

1895.]

[Oct. fl,

167

pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity." It won't do, Bro. THOHPBON,
although we earnestly hope that some day a core will be found for this curse of non·
affiliation. ·
Bro. THOHPSON notes the address of Bro. NILBB SBABLB, onr Grand Orator, and
classes it as a good one; but is inclined to "make light" or the reports of the Comrplttee on Jorikprndence, the work of the chairman thereof, Bro. WILLUH 0, BBLCH&B.
Since writing that report, Bro. T., Bro. BBLOBBB has been called to bis eternal rest,
and it Is not improper for the writer to assure yon that yon were then in error, if
never before. Bro. WILLIAH C. BELCHER was "the first among bis equals," a
thorough scholar and jurist, and an authority in Masonic matters, without bis equal
on the Pacific Coast. And bow Bro. THOMPSON could read bis articles on the proposed MiBSissippi roles or the perpetual jurisdiction question wit boot an acknowledgment of his great allllity, we don't understand.
The M.·. W.·. WILLIAM H. BEST was elected Grand Master; R.·. W.·. FRA1'11: J.
THOllllPSON was elected Grand Secretary. Chairman of Correspondence, M.·. w.·.
FRANK J. THOHPBON, Fargo.
'Ebe next session of the Grand Lodge of North Dakota will be held at Fargo,
J uoe 9th, 1896.

Before we could acknowledge the receipt and thank Mr. BBADLBY for hie valnable
His memory will
·

giR, even before the deed reached us, on December 19th, he died.

always be held in gratefol remembrance for this kindly act.

The Grand Lodge proceeded In a body to the ball of the Bouse of Representatives to hear the Annual Address of the Grand Orator, the Bon. WALTER CLABll:.
The Grand Orator was introduced, after a few neat and appropriRte remarks, by the
Grand Marshal, Bro. ENooH F. Lum. After hearing the eloqnent oration, which is
too lengthy for onr space, the Grand Lodge, by a rising vote-

0

Reso!tied, That a vote of thanks he tendered to onr brother for his eloquent,
iustroctive and trnthfnl address.

There being no Report on Correspondence this year, after an Addreaa by the
Grand Master the Grand Lodge closed In Ample Form.
M.·. W.·.· FJUNOIB M. MoYB was elected Grand Master; R.·. W.·. JOHN 0. DnswRY
was elected Grand Secretary; Bro. GEOBOB W . BLollllT WILBON, Chairman or Correspondence.
NORTH DAKOTA.

The Grand Lodge of North Dakota held ita sixth Annual Communication in the
city of Fargo, Jone 18th and 19th, 1895,-the M.·. w.·. GsORGK L. MoGRBGOR, Grand
Master; the R. ·• W. ·. FRANK J. THOHPS01', Grand Secretary. There were present
three Past Grand Masters, thirty-two Representatives of sister Grand Jurisdictions,
and the Masters, Wardens or RepresentatfveR or forty·one chartered Lodge~.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Addreaa. He returned thanks to the Great
Benefactor for his watchful care during the recess, and preservation or the lives of
the brethren composing the circle of Grand Lodge stations, enabling them to meet
to-day for the enactment of each legislation as would place North Dakota in advance
among the laborers in the Masonic vineyard.
The Grand Master made fraternal mention of the eminent brethren of sister jurisdictions who have retired from earthly labor daring the year. Among the many
distinguished names taken from the death-roll of 1894.-5, we note that of onr own
beloved Past Grand Master, JoHN MILLS BRowira. The Grand Master paid eloquent
tribute to the memories of these chosen representatives of the great Fraternity, and
In behalf of bis brethren of the Great Norihwest dropped a sprig of acacia upon the
last resting place of each beloved brother.
The Grand Master's decisions report.ed among bis official acts are of local interest,
and need not be quoted for comment.
The Grand Master approves the representative system, and deprecates the nee of
all sorts of cyphers, keys or reminders.
The present volume contains the portraits of the M.·. w.:. GEOBOB L. McGREGOR,
Grand Master, and the R.·. W.·. FRA1'K J . THOMPSON, Grand Secretary. It also contains engraved views of the Virginia Masonic Home, the Grand Lodge Library of
Iowa, and the New York Masonic Home at Utica, with the Homes of Michigan and
Missonri.
Bro. FRANK J. THOHPBON, Past Grand Master, presents the Report on Correspond·
ence, a review of the doings of llrty-ftve Grand Lodges, Bro. THOHPBON is an
enthusiast on the snbjeot or" Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home," and gives his
beet energies to help the cause along.
In reviewing California, Bro. THOHPSON proposes a radical departure in the
election or members. He urges as a core for the evil of non-affiliation that a single
negative should not prevail, and that a two-third vote should be snffioient to elect to
membership. The suggestion makes us murmur: " Behold, how good and bow

Grand .L<Xlge of California.

NOVA SCOTIA.

Emergent Communications of the Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia were held on
Friday, Jone 30th, 1893, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of the New
Anglican Church, in the town of Middleton, Parish of Wilmot; and on the eighth of
September following, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of Zion Presbyterian
Church at Fenooa. The placing of the stones and accompanying ceremonies were
performed in accordance with the customs of the Fraternity.
The Annual Communication or the Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia was held In New
Glasgow, Jone 13th, 1894.,-the K.·. W.·. DUNCAN FRABllR, Grand Master, and the
B.·. W.·. WILLIAH Ross, Grand Secretary. Thirty-six Lodges were represented.
There were present twenty-one Past Grand Officers and the Representatives of
twenty sister Grand Jurisdictions. The Representative of Cdlifornia was not present.
The Grand Lodge or Nova Scotia bears upon its roll sixty-three chartered Lodges,
with a membership of 3,223 Master Masons.
The Grand Master delivered bis Annual Address, first giving the assembled
brethren a cordial greeting before proceeding to the report of his official acts. or
the Masonic Congress held in Chicago, be says :We had no Representatives present, but a report of deliberations and conclnsioDB
arrived at will be placed before yon.
Of correspondence, he says:The work or the Correspondence Committee bas been well conducted during the
past two years. I commend all our bretbr~n to a ~ar~fnl . study of this p~rt of our
proceedings. A large amount of Masonic mformat1on ts given In the jnd1c1one selections made from the reports of Rister jurisdictions. It c~nstitotes a yearly Masonic
manna!, and no intelligent Mason can afford to overlook 1t.
Of visitations, be writes:-

'

During the past ye11.r I have not been able to visit Lodges as I desired. The
Deputy Grand Master ha~ paid parti.cular a~tentlon to Halifax, and the District Deputies have perform~d therr work sattsfactordy •.
The Masonic Fair engaged so much of my time that I was unable from press of
other engagements to give sncb attention to this work as I would have desired. The
former labor I considered or more advantage to our brethren, and the results have
t'nlly justified this conclusion.

168

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

The Grand Master submits for the consideration of the Grand Lodge the proposed
uniform rules adopted by the Grand Lodge of MIBSissippi.
Of the succeBB of the Masonic Fair, he writes:In my last AddreBB to Grand Lodge I referred to the then proposed Masonic Fair
comll!endi~g it to all. Lodges. I was not by any means doubtful of the result, but i
certamly dad not anticipate such marked success. Whether we view it from the distinguished patronage nnder which It was held; the marked efficiency of the arrangements; th~ high character of the nightly performances\ the rich and varied display
of the a1·ticles offered for sale; the large and enthns1astlc numbers who nightly
attended and willingly contributed, or In the result achieved, the verdict must be the
same. The net caeh re•nltwa• $5.429.68. To this snm we added 8570.82, and reduced
the mortgage to $15,000. This balance of $15,000 was obtained a t a less rate of
interest than formerly paid, making an annual saving in interest alone of over isoo.
The Charity Fair, held for the purpose of raising funds for the reduction of the
debt on the Freemasons' Hall, Halifax, yielded a handsome sum in compensation
for the untiring efforts of the managers. The snm of $5,529 was realized therefrom,
as a token of the appreciation of the brethren for the snccessfnl efforts in behalf of
the Fair. Gold medals were ordered for presentation to the Grand Master, M:-. lt'.·.
·
E'B.AsRB, and R.-. W.'. Bro. ARTHUB C. T. BorLEAu,Junior Grand Warden.
The Report on Corresnondence is presented b,y R.·. W.'. Bro. T. B. FLINT, chair'
man. He presents a review of sixty-two Grand Bodies, with comments upon their
legislation. The Grand Secretary ad'ds In a note :Of the sixty-two proceedings reviewed, forty-three have paBBed under the band of
R.·. W.·. Bro. T. B. FLINT, at a time when bosily engaged with his pobllc duties as a
member of the Honse of Commons, at Ottawa, with long night sessions often extend·
ing beyond the "wee sma boars" and attending Important committee meetings
daring the boars of recess. It seems almost incredible that Bro. FLINT should be
able to give his attention to the work of reviewing the proceedinits of so many
Lodges; bat he did so, and t.he result is now presented in the present volume.
We trust that the Grand Lodge will, at its next Annnal Oommunication, accord to
Bro. FLINT something more than a hearty vote of thanks for the services so cheerfully and acceptably performed during the past three years.
To which we respond, "so mote it be."
Bro. FLINT gives b~ief notice of California. He speaks of the decisions of Grand
Master GBITK.!.N as just and able. The session reviewed was immediately preceding
the death of Bro. G.; the jurisdiction is pronounced flourishing; the progreBB on the
Home commended; and be says, from the reports, the office of Grand Lecturdr Is no
sinecure. Bro. HABE'S discharge of the duties of the .office is praised.
Under Kentucky, Bro. FLINT says of the Representative system:Th~ system of Grand Representatives appears to be yet on Its trial. Hitherto It
bas eX1sted as rather an ornamental &pp end age of the Fraternity, useful as a part of
the pageantry of Grand Lodges, but with oo perceptible lnfloence npon the work or
· life of the Craft. Its friends and supporters most endeavor to ohtaiu from it some
solid work to vindicate Its continoed right to existence, or under the utifltariao spirit
of the age It may be swept away.

The M.·. W.·. WILLIUt F. McCOY, Q. 0., was elected Grand Master; the R.·. W.-.
Wu.Ll..Ul Ross was re-elected Grand Secretary. Chairman of Oorrespoodence, Bro.
T, B. FLINT, Yarmouth.
OHIO.

The Grand Lodge of Ohio held Its eighty-fifth Annoal Communication In the city
of Columbus, October 24th, 1894,-tbe M.·. W. ·. ALLEN ANDREWS, Grand Master, and
B.·. W.-. J. H. BBOlfWBLL, Grand Secretary. Foor hundred and Reventy·nloe
Lodges were represented, Ohio has on her roll four hundred and ninety-four Lodges,
0

1895.J

Grand Lodge of California.

169

with a membership of 38,851 Master Masons. Eight Paet Grand Masters, two Past
Deputy Grand Masters, and Emeritus Grand Secretary, Bro. JoBN D. CALDWELL,
were predent.
In accordance with Ohio cnsto"m a Lodge of Master Masons was opened preparatory to opening the Grand Lodge of Ohio.
The Grand Chaplain having invoked the divine bleBBlng, the Graud Master
declared the Grand Lodge opened in its eighty-fifth Annual Communication.
'l'be Grand Lodge was welcomed to the city of Columbus by Hon. Bro. GEOBGB J.
KARL, Mayor of the city, and also by Bro. G1L. H. BUBGRR, on behalf of the Masonic
Fraternity of Columbus. l!otb addresses were responded to by Grand Master
ANDREWS~

'lhe Grand Master bid tbeaBBembled brethren thrice welcome to their eighty-fifth
Annual A~eembly. In noticing the occurrences of the year, he mentions a pleasant
visit to the Jorlediction or the Grand Lodge of Utah and making the acquaintance of
Grand Master OeAPlfAN and Grand Secretary DIEHL. The Grand Master was much
impressed with the attention and hospitality be received " Out West."
The Grand Master submits the invitdtion of the Grand Lodge uf Colorado to
consider the matter of ceiebrating the anniversary of the death of Bro. GEOBGB
WABBINGTON, heartily commending the proposed celebration, with the aBBnrance of
·
bis entire approval. He closes bis favorable report in the following words:Thie preliminary CC'mmlttee sent me a communication, inviting me to lay the
matter before you, and expreBBing the hope that tbe suggestions would meet with
approval. Freemasonry is not intrueiv~, never seeks notoriety, and does not claim
anything, much less hid for member•hlp, because the great ·men of the world have
now, 1111d ever have had, identity. with this brotherhood. Nevertheless, good may
come to ns from among ourRelveR, If we Rometimes recall t o mind 'that the Father of
oar Coontry, fifty-two of the flfty-Ove signers of the DPclaration of lndependenc•,
all the Major-General& of the Revolution, thirteen Presidents of the United States,
and nearly one-half of the men distinguished for valor in war and honor in peace,
were brethren or our Fraternity. It is well, sometimes, to study patriotism and
Masonry, and see bow their teachings intertwine, how their votaries are the same,
and bow duty to country runs in harmony with duty to our Order.
Such memorial services would, no doubt, rekindle the fires of patriotism, and reawaken the fervor or Masonry.
The decisions were of local significance and were arproved by the Committee on
Jurisprudence.
Purauant to resolution of Grand Lodge, the Grand Master divided the State into
twenty-five districts and appointed a Lecturer for each.
In discharging the sorrowful dnty of reporting the loss of brethren within their
own circle, the Grand Master named in words of affectionate remembrance Past
Grand Master Bro. BKN. SlfITH, and Bro. HEMAN ELv, for seven consecutive years
Grand Commander of KniKhts Templar lo Ohio, an eminent brother who had held in
the State many positions of trust and honor. After paying tribute to the illustrious
dead of sister jurisdiction~, be reported as inscribed on the death roll of the year the
names of' tlve hundred and eighty.five brethren who have "gone froJD our midst,
left empty chairs in onr Lodge·rooms, and broken ties · in our Fraternity.'' The
Grand Moster says: " With sweet sorrow and sad pleasure we recall them in memory,
over and over again, nntil all sadness passes away and recollections of them become
the most cherished of our lives."
The R.-. W.·. WILLIAM B. MsLLISB, Senior Grand Warden and Deputy Grand
Master-elect, was introduced and "sainted " as the Representative of the Grand
Lodge of Scotland by his predeoessor, R.·. W.·. JOB!f D. CALDWELL, who invested Bro.
MBLLISB with the _Representative Jewel of the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
The Most Worshipful Ju1ss W, STATON, Grand Master of Masons in Kentucky,
was introduced and welcomed with the Grand Honors, to which welcome, as the

170

[Oct. 9~

Proceedings of the

1895.J

171

"Tbe thirtieth Report In thirty consecutive years." ou Foreign Correspondence ,
we.a snbmitted by Past Grand Master M.-. W.-. Bro. Josu.:s H. I!RUMMOND, _the a~le
Chairman of the Committee, whose long, consecutive service evidently entitles him
to be cousid~red the dean of the reportorial guild, although it is a clo•e race, per·
he.pa, bdween M.·. W.'. Bro. DRUJO!OND e.ud the Chairman. of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylve.010., Pe.st Grand Master
M.·. w... Bro. RIOBARD VAUX, of whom Bro. DRUMMOND says, In bis review of the
proceedings of that Grand Lodge :"We are surprised to learn that the report before ns ls his twenty-ninth. We had
not been a.ware that be bad prepared .any before he commenced liis present series of
cousecntive reports. By .. si!1gular coinci!1ence, in ~is twenty-ninth he reviewed '!ur
twenty-ninth. When the reviewers form in procession according to length of BeMltDe,
.
we will walk by the side of Bro. VAUX, at the head of it!"
The facility e.ud aptitnde always manifest therefore In the preparation of their
admirable reports by our esteemed brethren may also be said to entitle them "to
bead the procession.''

records state, Grand Master STATON responded eloquently, referring in bis remarks
t~ the ~ride of Kentucky Masons, "The Widows' and Orphans' Rome," and nrging
his Ohio brethren to make still greater exertions in the sRme great cause.
Re~orts were received from the Lecturers of the twenty-five districts, giving the
condition and prospects of the Lodges nnder their respective snpervisiou. Said
reports are printed in the proceedings and speak in no uncertain tones of the progress
and prosperity of the great and growing Jnrisdictioo of Ohio.
The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master W. M. CUNNINGHAM,
chai~man, w~o presents a full and comprehensive report of the doings of sixty
Eoghsb·sreakmg GrRnd Lodges, together with the foreign Grand Bodies of Switzerland, Germany, tbe Netherlands, Italy, Belgium, Portugal, Onba, Denmark, Holland,
the enquirer who
Sw~den and Greece, furnishing a mass of Masonic inforoiatfon
desires t~ learn the condition, purposes and prospects of J<'reemasonry among the
other nations of the earth, e.s well as in onr own coon try among our own kindred and
brethren. The report is creditable to Ohio as well ag to her able correspondent..
~ro. CuNNINGHAK names the principal snbjects of interest, judging by their discnsR1on by correspondents, to be perpetnal jurisdiction, noo-e.fllliation, the Ritual and
1
ts dissemination, Masonic Homes , tbe Past Master's degree, Me.sonic residence, tbe
Gran Dieta e.nd Freemasonry in Mexico, etc,, etc., etc. Yes, Bro. C. the times will
be "ont of joint " with the average correspondent when the legla)ative blnnders of
some one of the numerons bodies will not furnish him with food for comment.
Bro. CUNNINllHAlll quotes the report of tbe tre.nse.ctions of the Board of Relief of
Se.n Francisco and tbe other boards or the different districts, and commends the
busineBB system sho.wn in thP. management Rod t!isbarsemeut of a great charity.
The AddresR of.Worshipful Bro. DBUPRKY, Grand Orator, receives complimentary
notice, and its sentiments are quoted and approved.
The reports of Bro. BELOH&B, Chairman of Jurispradoince, upon the status of 000 •
affiliates nnder onr law, and npon the correspondcnce with the Grand Master of
Pennsylvania upon the Grand Representative question , are folly noticed and liberally
qnoted from.
On the non-affiliate qnestlon, Bro. CuN!IINGHAM declares ns "iron-clad " In oar
d~mRnds upon !he homeless orphan who, of hie own free '!'ill and accord, keeps
h1msel~ beyond the responsibilities of the Lodge, while willing to .receive Its privileges
and eOJOY the benefit of Me.sonic associations. In bis comments Bro. CUNNINGIJAH
notes a fact in which we fully concur. He says: "Better bav: larger fees for the
degrees if the result is even fewer members." We have always been an advocate of
"maxi mom fees and minim nm dues."
On the Grand Representative question, Bro. CUNNINGHAM writes:-

for

And so se.y we a.II.
M.·. W.'.CARBOLLF. 0LAPPwas elected Grand MaRter; R.". W.• J. H. BROMWELL
was re-elected Grand Seoretary, Cincinue.ti. Chairman of Correspondence , Bro.
W. M. Ctl111!1I!IGILl.M, Newark.
OKLAHOMA.
held a Special Communication for the purpose of
Oklahoma
of
Lodge
The Grand
laying the corner-stone of the Methodist Episcopal church in the city of Mulhall
April 21, 1894,-tbe M ... w... SELWYN DOUGLASS, Grand Master.
The Grand Lodge being opened in Ample Form was formed in procession, and ,
under the escort of Guthrie and Okl .. homa Oommnnderies; of Knights Templar,
marched to the site of the proposed church, where the stone was placed in due form,
accompanied with the impreBBive ceremonies of the Craft,
The Grand Lodge again assembled, the Grand Master presiding, in the city of
Perry October 16, 18J4, for the purpose of pie.clog the corner-stone of the High
School building in ibe city of Perry. 1'be Grand Lodge being open, was formed in
procession under the eRcort of Gnthrie and Oklahoma Commanderies, the civic
societies of the city, with the School Directors and 570 school children, prooeeded to
the site of the proposed building, where the stone was placed iu accordanQe with
ancient usage and with the impressive ceremonies of Freemasonry.
A banquet we.s given the Grand Lodge and visiting brethren by Perry Lodge,
· No, 15, which closed the interesting ceremonies of the occasion.

The Committee 0!1 ~arisprudence •ubmitted an able report in relation to the withdrawal of the comm1BB100 of the Representative of the Grand Master of the M. • W>
Grand Lodge of Peuu~ylvania near the H.·. W.·. Grand Lodge of CaliforniR ··Aft~;
showing by references to Its own legislation that the Grand Lodge of Penn~ylvania
had hitherto recognized such RepresentRtives ~s the Representative of the Gre.ud
Lodge ~nd_uot of _the Grand M&Rter, the committee further ee.y, after quoting the
reg11lat100 m relation thereto in the Couijtitation of the Grand Lodge or California.
After quoting the report of the committee, Bro. C. adds:The Representative system has been recognized in Ohio and in other Grand
Lodge&, also, probably, including Pennsylvania, for more than bdlf a centnry.
In bis review of Maine, Bro. CUNNINGHAM embraces the opportunity to pe.y a very
neat and well deserved compliment to "Chief Justice DBDl!KOND" and his able
&BBocie.te. It is certainly au honor to be a member, even at the little end of a pro
ceasion, with such leaders.
Comp. OoNNI!IGllAM writes:-

Grand Lodge of California.

'

The Grand Lodge of Oklahoma held its third Annual Communication in the city
of King Fi•her February 12, 1891S,-the M.-. W.'. SELWYN DOUGLASS, Grand Master,
the R.'. W.'. JAMES S. HUNT, Gre.ud Secretary. Eighteen of the nineteen chartered
Lodges were represented.
The Gre.ud Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The Grand Master delivered bis Annne.l Address. He reported the constitution
of eight new Lodges chartered at the last preceding session of the Grand Lodge.
OklabomR bas twenty-three Lodges on her roll, with a membership of 923 Master
Masons.
The Grand Master recounted with deep feeling the cruel murder of the late Grand
Lecturer bv three ruffiRns who broke into his dwelling house and assassinated him
in the pre~nce of his family. The Grand Master adds: "Their pnrpose in coming
to Bro. Tow!IBE!ID's honse is not certainly known, I believe, but they fled immediately after the murder. Since then one of their nnmber be.a been arrested, tried and
·
sentenced to uinety-nine years imprisonment."
The Grand Master makes e. strong appeal for the observance of the proposed
centennial celebration of the dee.th of Bro. GEORGE: WABBINGTON.

172

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

The deci.Rions rendered were of local import only. The following amendment to
the Constitution was adopted on the recommendation of the Committee on Law
and nsage :-

Reaolved, That Section 33 of Article VIII of the Grand Lodge Constitution be

1895.J

'

amended to read us follow• : "Any kind ot gambling, profane swearing, or the
intemperate nse or sale of intoxicating liqnors, as a beverage, is nomosonic, and a
bar to initiation, pa•sing or raising In a subordinate Lodge. And the practice
thereof shall sobject ofteoders who are Mason~ either to admonition, reprimand,
snspensioo, and in exta·eme cases, to expulsion."

w.-.

173

comments, Bro. HUNT, ond, if so, pl.ease permit ne to file an amended statement,
and· you, brethren, just givens all the advice yon think we need; and as to 'the iostal·
latioos why, bless yon, swear yonr people into office lo soch form as yonr good
taste may dictate and the Grand Lodge · of Oklahoma approves. A prosperons
fntnre, say we , to the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma.
The M..·. W.-. OHARL'l!S A. NBW'llAN was elected Grand Master; the B.'. W.-.
JAMES S. Hu~T was re-eleoted Grand Secretary. Correspondent, B.·. W.-. JAMBS S.
HUl!IT, Stillwater.
ONTARIO, CANADA.

The
WM. R. BoowN, Grand Orator, delivered a practical addreea, devoted
principally to the necessity for a noiform work In their jnrisdictioo.

The Grand Lodge of Canada, in the Province or Ontario, held its thirty-ninth
Aonnal Communication in the city of Hamilton, Joly--, 1894,-tbe M.-. W.·. Hou.
J.M. GIBSON, Grand Master; B.·. W.'. J, J, MASON, Grand Secretary. Three hundred
and three Lodges were represented. Fortv-three sister Grand Jurisdictions were
represented-California by V.'.
G. B. RYERSON, M. D. Six Past Grand .Masters
answered to roll-call.

The following resolotlon in reference to the sobject of oon·affiliation was introdoced by Bro. GAllDllNLINB, and referred to the Committee on Law and O•age to be
repol'ted on at the next annual session of the Grand Lodge:-

w...

WHEBEA•, It is conceded by all Grand Lodges that non-affiliation is detrimental
to the best interests of Masonry, and unjust to those who bear the burdens .of Lodge
membership ;
AND WHRBBAS, The Grand Lodge of Oklahoma is radloally opposed to such a
practice within her jorlsdictiQo; therefore be it
Reaol'oed, That t!ection 19, Article VIII, of the Grand Lodge Constitution be
amended to read M follow&:Every non-affiliated .Master Ma•on residing within the jorlsdictioo of the Grand
Lodge of Oklahoma, shall, by virtue of said residence., be and become a member of
the subordinate Lodge within whose jurisdiction said residence is located.
It shell be the dnty of the Worshipful Master of each sobordinste Lodge in this
j11ris11iction, at the first regular meeting after hi• installation as snch Worsbipfnl
Master, to appoint " special committee ot' three to serve one year nnless removed
by the Worshipful Master for oause, who•e doty It shall be to Investigate every person claiming to be a Mitster Mason residing within the jurisdiction of their Lodge
and not members thereof, and ascertain the name, number and location of eaoh
Lodge with which such persons may claim affiliation. and the name, number and
location of each Lodge from which the dimit of any non ·affiliated Master Mason
hes emanated. They shall report the result or their investigation in open Lodge at
eac.b regnlar meeting thereof.
It •hRil be the duty of the Secretary of each subordinate Lodge in this Gre.nd
Jnrisdiction to verify the status aud standing of each Master Mason (so reported by
said committee) by corre•poudence with the Secretaries of the several Lodges
embraced i11 BRid report, and shall submit ltll corre•pondence received relating to
such investigation, to the Lodge at each regular meeting thereof. And shRll also
report to the Grand Secretary the name of each perdon claiming to be an affiliated
Master Mason whose claim is r•futed by such oorrespondenoe.
·
It shall be the duty or the Worshipful Master to immediately, upon the report of
the Secretary aforesaid, direct the Secretary to enter the name of each non-affiliated ·
Master Mlll'on (the genuineness and validity of whose dimit bas been so verified)
opon the roll of member• of the Lodge. And thenceforth •aid non-affiliates shall be
in full membership in said Lod11:e. The Secretary shall at once notify tbe brother,
or brothers, uf their member•hip in Lodge. It shall be the duty of each brother so
affiliated to deposit bis dimit with the Secretary of his Lod11:e, and his failore to do
so •hall be R Masonic offense, sobjeotiog the brother tu Masonic discipline. Be it
fortber
Resolued, That oll laws, or parts of la we, conflicting here with are hereby repealed.
The Report on Correspondence is by Bro. J..uui:s S. HUNT, Grand Secretary, who
reviews the prnceedinjl's of fifty Grand Lodges, giving os Rn abstract of their legislation with his views thereon. He is In fnll accord . with onr late Grand Master 0RllB
on the non·alliliatiou qnestion. We can readily understand from onr experience in
the early days the great interest felt lo the evil of non-affiliation. It is the heaviest
burden to be borne in a young joriediction, absorbing its vital energies, and casting
Its ngly shadow over the f,.iibful laborer.
Bro. HU!IT, in his review of Oalifornia, quotes from the writer's comments npon
the Addre•e of Grand Master BPENGBL last year. Perhaps we were too abrnpt in

Grand L0<lge of California.

Especial Commnoications of this Grand Lodge were held Augnst let, 1893, for the
laying of the fonndatlon-stooe of St. James Cbnrch in the village of Harrisbnrg;
On the eleventh day of August, 1893, for the placing of the corner-stone of the
Palmerston Public School at the viilage of Palmerston; And on the second day of July, 1894, for the placing of the corner-stone of the
.Methodist Church at Pottawa Creek.
Ill.'. W.·. J, H. lsAACSOI'!, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Quebec, was
introduced Rnd welcomed with the Grand Honors.
An address of welcome was presented by the .Masters of the several Lodges In
the oity of Hamilton, extending a fraternal greeting to the officers and members of
the Grand Lodge on the occasion of their thirty-ninth Annual Assembly, and expressing the hope that their stay in the fair city might be both pleasant and profitable.
After a cordial greeting to the brethren, the Grand Master delivered bis Annual
Address. He reported bis official acts and gRve an Interesting acconot of the proceedings of the Masonic Congress wbicb be attended. Having reported npon the
subject matter heretofore, we will not refer to it here.
Under decisions, he says:Again l refrain from submitting to Grand Lodge any of my rulings dnriog the last
year. It does not occur to me that auy of them have been ot' sufficient Importance to
go on record.

'

He recommends the careful consideration, by the Grand Lodge, of the uniform
rules prepared and presented by M. '. W.'. FaBDERICK SPBBD, of Mississippi, for the
consideration of the Masonic world.
The Grand Secretary reported the receipts for the year at $18,991.16.
The Province of Ontario is divided into' eighteen distrlots, ea.ch under the supervision of a District Deputy Grand Master. Each reports folly to the Grand Master
the condition of the Lodges in his district, the amount of and manner of work, prospects of Lodge, tlnancial standing, amount of iosnrance carried, amonnt of dues in
arrears, etc. The system seems a thorough one, and jndging from the earnest,
detailed reports of the Deputies, is more effectually carried out than any that bas
come under our observation. 'fbe reports of the District Deputies, with their statistical tablee, fills one bnndred and eixty·eigbt pages of the proceedings. The Grand
Lodge of Canada, in the Province of Ontario, may be proud of its plan of supervision.
We qnote the conclnding words of the Board on the "condition of Masonry" In
the Province of Ontario:-

174

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

lo cooclosioo we express oor regrets at being compelled to l)mit from oor review
many mattel't! of importance. All questions caooot be dealt with io ooe report; we
have therefore coofioed ourselves to matters which require immediate notice. lo
future report•, it may be advisable to enlarge oo subjects oot touched oo this year.
Those D. D. G. M.'s who have baode<I lo their reports doriog the last few boors will
oo doubt complain of the omission of some matters which they desired to bring
before Grand Lodge. These brethren will, however, give credit for the best of
intentions at all events, aod oo desire to overlook or slight them, Oar task is now
completed. In perusing the reports we have visited the 3(9 Lodges under the jurisdiction of Grand Lodge. We have followed the M. '. W. •• the Grand Master and the
D. D. G. M.'s in their travels over the whole Proviuce, aod caod'oin with them io
coogratolatioos oo the increased strength and prosperity of the raft. The future
looks very bright indeed. Let it be our aim to make our lives a practical illostratioo
of the teaching of Freemasonry, aod oo such a fouodatioo let os raise a soperstroctore which will be respected aod honored by the whole world. It bas been well said,
"To do good and oommooicate, is the great mission of Masonry to maokiod1 aod as
members of a common brotherhood we should never Jose sight of this ooe great eod,
aod io furtherance of this porpose as lodividoal Masons, do what we cao t.o wards its
accomplishment."
The Board of Andit aod Fioaoce report the receipts for the year at $18,991.15, aod
expeoditllres at $16,\\78.26.
The Board of Beoevoleoce reported amooot of relief granted for year eodiog May
31, 1894, at $9,386.
This Grar;d Lodge number~ as its subordinates 3'9 r.odges, with a membership of
22,530 Master Masons.
The Report oo Correspoodeoce is presented by Past Grand Master HENBY RoeBBTBON, chairman. He reviews fifty-eight Grand Bodies-all of the American Grand
Lodges except Oklahoma, which did oot come to hand. Bro. Roe&BTSON'S paper is
ao able report of the Masonic legislation of the day, with, " as we think," opiilioos
io sympathy with the right side of the few questions at issue. Under Missouri, he
says of "perpetual jorisdictioo:" "There is oot single recognizable Masonic
feature in its make-op "-a seoteoce which we would define as "much truth io few
words."
Under California, he notes the Address of oor lamented Bro. GRITMAN ; commends generally the evidence of prosperous progress. in oar jorlsdiotloo; quotes
approvingly the reports of Bro, J. W. ANDBBSON, and concurs io bis oploloos regarding the "prerogatives" of the Grand MaRter aod perpetual jurisdiction.
Under District of Colombia, Bro. RoBERTSON quotes Bro. SINGLETON'S explanation
of the why aod wherefore of the "prerogative trouble." Bro. SINGLETON says:-

a

The "trouble" is that our ritual places the Worshipful Master io the position of
Kiog 8oLOMON with absolute power, aod the mistake Is that io oar jurisprudence the
difference between the Worshipful Master lo the "ritual work" aod the same person
lo presiding over the "business tran!lllctioos," Is not observed. " The Worshipful
Master is governed by the by-laws of his Lodge aod tbe Ooostitotioo, Rules aod
Regulations of the Grand Lodge," which is the cause of the "trouble" io brief.
Io his review of Maine, we notice from the reports of the Committee oo the
History of Maine this ackoowledgmeot : Your chairman wishes also to record the interesting fact that he has traced the
records of the old Ionic Lodge, established at Btenbeo by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, and has received them completa, as a gift, from the generous haod of
Mr. H. O. SsAw, a native of Steobeo, bot now a resident of Stockton, Califoroie.
We ooly quote to endorse the statemeottbat onr brother, companion aod all-round
Frater, H ENRY COFFIN SHAW, carries with him every day, Sundays oot excepted,
"a generous haod;" aod we assure yon, Mr. Ohafrmao, it is oot noosoal for Sir
HENRY to do just such "good deeds." We know him well, have slept with him, but
never knew before that he was a native of Steuben.
The M.·. W.·. W. R. WBITE was elected Grand Master; the B.·. W.·. J. J., MASON
was re-eleoted Grand Seoretary,

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia,.

175

OREGON.
The Grand Lodge of Oregon held its forty.fourth Anooal Communication in the
city of Portland Joly 11, 1894,-M.·. w.·. J. o. MORELAND, Grand Master, B.·. w.·.
S. F. CHADWICK, Grand Secretary.
The Regular Communication, which should have beeo held io Jnoe, was postponed OD acconnt of prevailing 11.oods. For the sam6 reason maoy Lodges were
ooreprese11ted. Slxty·six Lodges were represented. Eight Past Grand Masters
were present, and the Representatives of thirty-three sister Grand Jorisdictloos.
Oaliforoia's proxy oot present.
Fine portraits of the three Past Grand Masters (on steel) add interest to aod
beantify this volome : Grand Master GEO. MoD. STROUD or 1881, Grand Master
JoSBPB N. DOLPH of 1882 aod Grand Master WILLIAlll THOlllAB WRIGHT of 18Sarepreseotatives of the wisdom, strength aod beauty or the Craft in Oregon.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. After greeting the brethren
aod invoking the aid of deity io the labors of the session, be jorned them lo thanks·
giving to Him who had protected aod sus:aioed them through all their undertakings.
Be referred to the paet year as one fraught with trial and hardship, ioteosified by the
great 6oancial depression which, like ao evil spirit, bas swept over the land. Yet,
he says, through all these uloods there baa appeared a silver lioiog. The appeals
for help have awakened a feeling of liberality, and meo have opened their hearts to
the cry of dist1·ess, and sweet charity has poored oat her richest blessings. "A
fellow teeliog makes the whole world kio.''
Before proceeding to consider the business of the session the Grand Master
paused to drop the tear of sympathy UJJOD the last resting place and memories or
the fraternal dead. Past Grand Master Jou C. AINBWOBTH, ooe of the early sup·
ports or Masonry io Oregon, received eloqoeot eulogy at his hands. His Masonic
record was recited, aod the tribute of sincere aod earnest affection paid to his
memory.
Bro. Jums P. BUSBEE, Grand Lecturer, oo the moroiog of the preceding
Christmas, on a railroad train approaching home, was thrown from the train a11J
lostaotly killed. He was buried by the Grand Lodge io presence of a large attend·
aoce from all parts of State, amid the maoisfestntioos of ioteose grief of relatives aod
friends.
The Grand Maater, ou behalf of the Masons of Oregon, joined io a tribute of
sympathy for sister jurisdictions who mourned the loss of emioeot brethren whose
vacant places io their several Grand Lodges serve as a reminder of the divine com·
maod, "Be ye also ready."
Two dispeosatioos were issued for the formation of oew Lodges.
The Grand Master visited thirty-six of the Lodges, aod says :It would be a great pleasure to recount the details ot these visit~ , banquets.
spread, the joyous greetings, hearty baod shakiogs and a succession of good times,
bot J fear it woold prove oointerostiog to yon. In all cases the Grand Lodge was .
liooored by the brethren io the attention paid to your representative. I was every·
where most loyally aod royally received and treated.

The Grand Master is oot satisfied with a regolatioo of the Grand Lodge provid·
ing "that any Mason lo good standing might object to the advancement of an
Entered Apprentice or Pellow Ora.ft by secret objection to the Master," He says
it has beeo prodoctive of trouble In tbe Lodges, aod urges the Committee oo Law and
Jurisprudence to re·examioe the qnestioo carefully, and if their former report was
wrong, to say so. Aod he adds very properly: "A Grand Lodge onght to be coo·
sistent, and to have a pride of oploioo- • in being right.'"
The question was asked, aod the Grand Master answered:-

176

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

When any brother in good standing in this jnriadiction makes objection to.the
advancement of a candidate the Master cannot ask for the reasons, nor consider
them if given, bnt he most stop the work. He added: Under oar law I believe no
other decision can be made, bnt the law onght to be changed.
The Oommitte on Law and Jnrlsprodence say : With respect to decision 9
your committee are of the opinion that It should be modified to read as follows:When any brother In good stan.ding in this jurisdiction makes objection to the
advancement of a. brother the Master cannot ask for the res.sons, hut ~hoo!d t~e
objecting brother voluntarily disclose his rea10.ns th~ Master IJ!S.Y ex~rcise his dis·
cretion in the matter, should he deem the objection fr1voloos or msnftl.c1ent.
We consider our Oa.lifornia regulation preferable In that it recQgnizes the rights
of an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft a.s a. Mason, and provides that when
objection is ma.de to the advancement of a. candidate the Master "mull" appoint a.
commmittee to Investigate the cause of objection. He is not vested with any dlscre·
tion in the matter; the langoagfl of the Constitution Is peremptory. Such objection
Hhall be referred to " committee with power to inquire into the cause thel'eof.
· The Committee on Law and Jurisprudence, to whom was referred the considera-·
tion of the "Mississippi uniform roles," reported against their adoption as entirely .
unnecessary, etc.
The Grand Lodge held memorial exercises in a Lodge of Sorrow, in the hall of
Oregon Consistory, at which appropriate addresses were made by brothers J. M.
HODSON, JOHN MoCRAOKllN, I. w. PRATT, WH. D. FENTON, s. M. YOBAN, s. F. CHADWICK and J.B. EDDY.
Worshipful Gso. C. BLA.KBSLllY, delegate, made a report of the proceedings of
the Masonic Congress, held io Chicago in Aognst la.et, for which he received the
thanks of Grand Lodge.
Bro. S. F. CHADWICK presented his credentials as representative of the M.·. W.'.
Grand Lodge of England near the Grand ~odge of Oregon, in an eloquent addres.s,
referring to. the exalted character and influence of tbe Grand Lodge of England m
the Masonic world.
·
The Grand · Lodge of Oregon carries on its roil one hundred and thirteen Lodges,
with a membership of 4,695 Ma.eter Masons.
Bro. CH.u>WICK writes the Report on Correspondence, a review of the doings
of fifty·five American Grand Lodges, with England, Ireland, Scotland, New Sooth
Wales and Victoria. That the report is a.n able one " goes without saying," for onr
neighbor of Oregon writes no other. Bro. C. will never be quoted as on both aides
of any question , for he has an opinion "and writes it" emphatically.
Under Alabama, Bro. OHADWIOK notes an evil, mentioned by the Grand Master, of
more than local significance; in fact, it's an '' old sore '' not confined to locality or
climate. He writes: " Grand Master reads an important lesson to those brethren.
who go to the Grand Lodge to more elfectoally attend to their private bnsiness away
from the Grand Lodge. These brothers will report to the Grand Lodge at the open·
iog, and at the close be ready to receive their stipend for attending upon it, when,
in fact, they should receive nothing bot censure. This evil prevails farther west,
and should be stopped."
.
Under Arizona, Bro. CHADWICK disapproves of the ruling of Grand Master
ORHBBY in relation to the "power" of the Master to confer the degree in the face
of an objection made before initiation, "if in hts judgmeni. he belie11es the Lodge
would eleot with all the facts before them.'' Bro. C. aa.ys :, • There is no Masonry in soch doctrine. Where does the Me.Ater get the superior
power to set aside an objection? The obj~ctor .has more power than the 1!£as~r,
whose objection cannot be questioned. It 1s child's Jll&y to say th~~ an ob~ection
may "stick" if the Master s11ys " st.ick "-not otherwise. Upon this question one

lS~~.]

Grand LOdge of Oalij<Yrnta.

111

Mason has the power over all other .Ile.sons, and, for action, he Is not answerable to
any living Ma.son. All the Master can do is to receive the objection, not the re&:aon
for it, and hold it in sacred trust. He cannot mention the name of the objeotor.
Oor California code provides that "no Lodge shall have more than one ballot for
the three degrees; bot though an applicant may be elected to receive them, If, at
any time before his initiation object.ion be made by any member, he shall not receive
the degree nutll such objeotion shall have been withdrawn ; and sooh objection
shall, unless withdrawn within sixty days, have the elfect of a rejection by ballot,
and shall be so reported to the Grand Secretary.''
In his notice of California, Bro. CHADWICK notes the lllness of Grand Master
CH.\&LBB R. GBlTHAN. At that time, Bro. C., oar Grand Master, was resting nnder
the shadow, and in a few short months was called to the Grand Lodge above,
Oar Widows' .and Orphans' Home enterprise is commended, and its '1rogrese
noticed with Increasing interest.
Onr law In reference to non·aftl.liates is given as defined by the Chairman of
Jorisprodence, Bro. WH. C. BBLOHBB, In his report at the last session.
Bro. DBUPREY'B oration is complimented, and Bro. ANDEBBON'B Report on Correspondence designated a.s "jost what might have been expected from him."
They seem to be agreed npon oar proposition relating to the stubborn old chap
known as perpetual jurisdiction, which is : If there is any process by which the
" conscience breaker," whoever he is, coold be caught, there would be less iojndi·
clone nee of the ballot In onr LodgAs. So say we all•.
Under Connecticut., Bro. OHADWIOK endorses a decision as sound and comprehensive, and from which doctrine he says: "There is no appeal." That seems to
ns so nnfair and nngenerons that we wonder from whence It came.
The question was asked :Can a person who ·has been rejected by a Lodge in this jurisdiction, who afterwards received the degrees of Masonry in a foreign county, without the consen.t or
the rejecting Lodge, be recognized a.e a Mason!
·
·
And here is the answer:No. The Lodge rejecting holds personal jurisdiction over him, which cannot be
annlllled or set aside without its unanimous consent; his me.kin~ might be regular,
and in a Lodge working under the authority of a regular Grand Lodge, bot his
recognition as a Mason depends upon the regolations of the Grand Lodge of Oonnectlcot, which is the supreme law within its limits.
Of coarse the Grand Lodge of Ooenecticut is a sovereign power, and may enact
any law or regnlation not In conflict with or subversive of the principles and ground
work of Masonry, bot why she should persist in the maintenance of a regulation
which from its operation becomes a hostile act to the great element of the Masonic
world represented by the Grand Lodges of England, Scotland, Ireland, the Dominion
of Canada., and a majority of the Grand Lodges of the United States, passes onr
understanding. Why is It, Bro. CHADWICK?
Under Delaware, In commenting opon the opinions of Bro, JACKSON, Chairman
Bro. CHADWICK writes our sentiments folly In the following:Oar brother does not favor the Past Master's degree. The degree is all right, bot
the mode of conferring fl ls all wrong. It wa.e intended to be conferred by Masons
skilled In a knowledge of parlimentary usages, as well as in Masonic, and by those
who have had experience in life and knew how to conduct themselves properly.
Many valoahle lessons might be learned in that degree when conferred l:iy proper
teachers, bot as it is now conferred it is of no good. Calling it by another name
will not mend the matter.
•
As Bro. CHADWICK says," the degree is all right when properly conferred." A&
exemplified by the Pa.et Masters' Association of San Francisco the degree conveys a

12

178

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

lesson of ·~re at value to the Me.ster elect, and is imparted in a thoroughly dignified
manner without the least atte111pt at illustrating "what fools we mortals be " in
'
strained attempts to be funny.
CHAD·
F.
S:
••
W.
M.·.
;
Master
Grand
elected
was
!ULOOLH
S.
PHILIP
·•
M.·. W.
WICK we.s re-elected Grand Secretary. Chairman of uorrespondence, Bro; s. F.
CIU.DWTOK, Salem.
PENNSYLVANIA .
A Quarterly Commnnicatloo of the Grand Lodge of Pennsyl~aoia was held in the
city of Philadelphia, March 7th, 189',-the R. •• W. •• .MICHA.KL ARNOLD Grand Master
'
. '
R.·. W.·. MICHA.Br. NISBET, Grand Secretary;
Ele~aot portraits, on steel, of R.·. W.·. WILLIAM ALLEN, Grand Master in 1732,
and R.·. W.·. D. 0. SKBBBBTT, Grand Master in the years 1863 and 1864 ornament
this flnetvolome. One hundred and twenty-five. Lodges were represent~d. Seven
Grand Masters were present.
The Grand Lodge opened in Ample Form.
The Commissioners of the !>inking Food reported the condition of the fond,
making the food at present date $254,460.33.
After the transaction of routine bnslness, the Grand Lodge closed.
A second Quarterly was held June 6th. One hundred and three Lodges were
represented.
The Committee on Printing aod Pnblishiog reported, aod congratulatory tele·
grams were exchanged with the Grand Lodge of Iowa.
The Grand Lodge closed.
A third Quarterly was held September 5th. Ninety-five L~dges were represented.
The Grand Becretary'reported the number of Lodges on the roll to be fonr hon·
dred and fourteen, with a membership of 47 ,395 Master Masons, an increase for last
year of 1,459.
. A fourth Quarterly was held in the cit}"'of· Philadelphia, December 5th: 1894.
Five hnndred and ninety-nine Lodges were represented. · Eight Past Grand Masters
were in attendance.
The Trustees of the Grand Lodge Charity Fund report the secnrities held by
them to be of the par value of $7',000 and deposited with the Fidelity Safe Deposi~
Company.
The Trustees of the Girard Beqne•t reported the total amonot of the food at par
· '
value ·or securities, at $63,200.
The Trustees of the Thomas R. Patton Memorial Fond report as follows 1 ~

There has been no change in the securities during the year, anti they amount at
ijle . p~r value therQof t.o $54.,000, and are contained ·in a private box in the safe
dep~s1t vaultij of the Umo~ !rnst Company, registered in the name of the Trustees.
'the accounts and secor1t1es were examined by the Committee on Finance and
foood correct.
. Aoooe.I Communication held r;>ecember 27, 189(. Fifty-nine Lodges were represented ; seven Past Grand Masters were in atteodaocei
The Grand Lodge opened in Ample Form.
T_he Almoners of Grand Lodge Charity Fund report having granted relief to 836
apphoaots, 302 of whom were their own people and thirty·fonr of sister jurisdictions. Relief granted, $3,875,

'1895.J

GTand Lodge of Oalifornia.

179

The Stewards of the" Stephen Girard Charity Fund" reported disbursements to
their own kindred and brethren of $2,260; from other j orisdictioos $435, among
whom we note' one from California of $20.
The " Thomas R. Patton Memorial Charity .Fond " disbursed to those entitled to
the benefit of said food $1,815 ..
Tile Grand Master, R. •. W. •• l\!ICHAll:L AB!fOLD, then delivered his Annual Address.
With expressions of thankfulness and gratitude to the Heavenly Father for His
care and protection of their beloved Fraternity, he proceeded to report the official
duties performed by him during the year, and to congratulate the brethren upon
their prosperity and progress. The increase In membership· for the year Is 1,459.
The Grand Master made numerous visitations of the sobordioates and performed
the ceremony of placing several coroer·stooes in accordance with the usages and
custom• of the Fraternity.
After the Address of the Grand Master the officers elect were installed and thrice
proclaimed as sncb, and received the salutations of the Craft.
The new Grand Master, R.·. W.·. Bro. MATTHIAS H. HBNDBBSON, then addressed
the Grand Lodge. Io the coarse of his address he said :Onr system of work differs from that practiced by the other jurisdictions of this
country. So marked is this difference that Pennsylvania stands alone among the
American Grand Lodge• as having a ritual entirely her own. It ls simple and impressive, without sopertluous verbiage, yet explaining folly and intelligently every
sign, symbol an<l attribnte the candidate receives. We make no attempt at dramatic
display, but endeavor by sound practical teaching to impress the troths of Free·
masonry upon our members. Oar work needs oo defense and we make none for it.
It was practiced when Hasonry was young, and has come down to us from the mists
or antiquity. We are proud to transmit it as we have received it without innovation,
spot or blemish. The efforts of the Grand Lodge in recent years have been to first
ascertain the true work and afterwards promulgate it. Io this it has been remark·
ably successful,. and a high degree of proficiency has been attained. The Temple
School of Instrnctioo and the schools located in other parts of the jorisdiotloo have
done admirable work in this respect, and the practice adopted In 1890 of requiring
proof of proficiency before advancement has been most beneficial, p.nd it can no
longer be said that Pennsylvania does not instruct her candidates. The advantages
of the practice accrue alike to the Lodge and the indivldoal, To the former by
insuring it an intelligent class of members, whereby It gains m reputation, and to
the latter by giving him all that he hlls paid for and enabling hiQl to make himself
known among strangers and enjoy social and fraternal beoefi~.
The Grand Master appointed fifteen Grand Chaplains.
B.·. W.·. Past Grand Master Bro. RICHARD VAUX then addressed R.·. W.·. Past
Grand Master Bro. MICHAEL ABllOLD, and on behalf of the brethren of this R.·. W. •.
Grand Lodge presented him with a Past Grand Master's jewel.
R.·. W. ·• Past Grand Master Bro. M1cHABL ARNOLD, in receiving the jewel,
expressed his fraternal appreciation of the kindness that had always been extended
to him by his brethren, and reciprocated the fraternal remarks of Bro. VAUX.
Dear, good, kind Bro. VAux. That was probably his last presentation for the
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania. A veteran Past Gre.nd Master he has for many years
been the connecting link between the Masons of " ye olden time " and the moderns
of t<Hiay, A representative Maso11, a Pennsylvania gentleman, his memory will be
as the sweetness of the summer's last rose with the Masons of Pennsylvania.
1'he Report on Correspondence is the final contribution of the veteran corre·
spondent Past Grand .Master RrnHARD VAUX, and, like former reporta, ls a thor·
oughly treated, courteous and dignified review of sixty Me.sonic Grand Lodges in
correspondence with the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
. Bro. VAux has ever been an earnest advocate and defender of the doctrine of
perpetnal jurisdiction, or as he terms it, perpetual objection.
Of Grand Representatives Bro. VAUX wrote:-

180.

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

The subject of " Grand Representatives" has received the attention of several
Grand Lodges. It is apparent that the beneftt of this method of correspondence
between Grand .Masters, or if it is in some jurisdictions regarded as between Grand
Lodges, in either case, is considered nnne0eesary and nseless by several jnrlsdlctlons.
Thie method has no basis In long·eetabliebed usage. lt is of modern origin, or at
beet not more than the lifetime of a generation. Thie gives it, therefore, no especial
claim to a benefit demonnrated by an experienee that length of time snpphM. .
Bro. VAUX, In reviewing California, mentions the illness of Grand Master GKITM:Ali
and the fact that Past Grand Master CoNELIN was called to perform the dntlee of
presiding, and be asks: ~ Why did not the Depnty Grand Master act as Grand
.Master,' as bis obligation reqnired, at least in our jurisdiction?''
In answer to Bro. VAux's qneetion we simply answer: " We dou't know.'' The
reqniretneut of our Conetitntion is the same as that of Pennsylvania, qnoted by
Bro. VAUX. In fact, is there any other possible use for a Deputy Grand Master?
Of the different reports Bro. VAUX wrote:We have read the re.Ports of the chairmen of the several Grand Lodge committees.
They prove a high oraer ·of thorOugbueee in treatlnir the snbjects referred to them.

It is but jnstice.to these brethren to remark that their reports comprehend all points

of the qnestions they have to consider, and a care in the preparation of their decisions that most conspicuously indicates the prudence and good judgment in arriTing
at the conclusions as reported:
We notice the reports of R.·. W.·. WILLIAM THollAB LucAS, Chairman of the
Committee on Grievances. Really the report of M.". W.-. WILLIAM CALDWELL
BELOHEK, Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, is a Masonic treatise in
itself, on Masonic law. We object to such a standard as M.-. W.·. Bro. BELCllll:B sets
up, for It is not possible that it can be generally adopted. The labor and the learning that be evinces woul.d, we fear, quite shock others trying to follow the example
set forth in bis work.
Of the writer of this report Bro. VAUX wrote the following compliment, which we
treasure as the approval of an illustrlons Mason:We are indebted to the personal and fraternal kind attention of Dur esteemed
Bro. R.-. W.". WILLU.lll A. DAvni:s, Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence
of the Gre.nd Lodge of California, for a copy, in advance of the publication of the
proceedings of that Grand Lodge, of bis annulll report. We thank him for this
courtesy. We have read the able, exhanetive and m1111terly review of the Grand
Lodges noticed. It is worthy of the careful study of all bis·colleagnes. 'l'he Craft
in California are to be congratulated that such a paper is oftered for their instruction.
He reviews the proceedings of ftft1·two Grand Lodges and the reports of their
several Committees on Correspondence. Thie report covers one hundred and thlrtyfour pages of small ty.pe. We know tbe labor expended in its production, bat to
properly comprehend it, this most able paper should be rel!od. There is no snbject
that is of Importance to the Craft that is even superftcially treated.
We at t.bie t.. te date of receiving this report, are unable to make special remarks
on ma~y of the views of our distinguished Bro. DAVIBS, Thie is to oor regret, but
it will be a gratification if lboee who have it In their power stndy it in eztenso.

R ... w.·. MATTHIAS H. HllNDERSON was elected Grand Master; R.·. w.·. MICHAEL
NISBET was re·elected Grand Secretary.
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.

The Grand Lodge of Prince Edward Island held its nineteenth Annual Commnnication In the city of Cbarlottstown, June 25th, 1894,-the frf.". W.". THOMAS A.
MAOLBAN, Grand Master; the R.·. W.·. B. WILBON Hmae, Grand Secretary. Ten
Lodges we~e represented. · There were present six Past Grand Masters and the representatives of twenty-ftve sister Grand Jnrisdictions. Paet Grand Master SrnoN W.
CKABBB, the Representative of the Grand Lodge of California, was present.
The Grand Master delivered bis Annual AddreBB. He extended a fraternal welcome to the 888embled brethren, and invited all to join him in expressions of gratitude
to the Supreme Grand Master for hie manifold 'blessings.

Grand Lodge of OaUfornia.

1895.]

'

181

He bad called an emergent meeting of the Grand Lodge in August, 1893, for the
pnrpoee of laying the corner-stone of the Methodist Church in Sommerside, _which
' was performed in accordance with ancient usage. He made sorrowful mention of
the death of many distingnl•hed brethren of sister jnrisdictlons, and although not
members of the Grand Lodge, of many of their own kindred and brethren who bad
passed to eternal rest.
The Grand Master reported his visitations, and congratulated the brethren npon
the prosperous' condition of the Jurisdiction.
Paet Grand Master SIMON W. CKABBB called the attention of the .Grand Lodge to
that portion of the M.'. W.·. Grand Master's Address referring to the death of the
late Grand Becr11tary of the Grand Lodge of New Brunswick, V.·. W.·. T. NISB:&T
ROBERTSON. He referred to the obligation of this Grand Lodge to Bro. RoBEBTSON,
who came from St. John In 1875, and spent two or three days ill assisting in the
preparation of the formation of the Grand Lodge of Prince Edward Island, and
moved the following reeolntion :Resolved That thi• Grand Lodge sympathizes with the Gu.ad Lodge of New
Bruoewick i~ the loss eo~tained by the death of their late Grand Secretary, T. NIBBE'!'
ROBERTSON; and further,
Resol11ed, That a memorial page be placed in the printed proceedings of this
Grand Lodge devoted to bis memory.

The Grand Lodge of Oklahoma was recognized.
The R ... w... EDWARD .Ill. PRESTON, of Ntr0ada Lodge, is the Representl\tive or
the Grand f,odge of Prince Ed ward Island near the Grand Lodge of California.
M.·. W.'. THOMAS A. MAOLBAN, Grand Master-elect, was invested and installed by
M.-. W.-. JNo. W. MoaKIBON, P. G. M., and was saluted and proclaimed M.·. W.-.
Grand .Master of the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted
Masons of Prince Edward Island, and the remaining Grand Officers were then
installed by M.'. W:·. Grand Master THOMAS A. MACLEAN, Grand Master for the year
1894 and 1895; M.-. W.'. SIMON W. CBABBB, P. G. M., aoting as Grand Marshal.
No Report on Correspondence.
The M.'. W.'. THOMAS A. MACLEAN was re-elected Grand Master; the R.'. W.'.
B. WILSON Hmos was re·elected Grand Secretary.
QUEBEC.
The Grand Lodge of Quebec held a Special Communication in the city of
:Montreal, Province of Qnebec and Domin.Ion of Canada, October 6, 1894, for the pur·
pose of placing the co!'ner stone of a Masonic Temple to be erected on DorJo1111 P. NOYBB, Grand Master, presiding,
chester street in that city,-tbe M.·.
the M.". W.'. JOHN H. ISAACSON being Grand Secretary. Forty-two Lodges and a
large assemblage of brethren took part in the proceedings.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, and, being formed in proceBBloo,
preceded by a band of music, marched to the site of the proposed Temple, where,
after the usual ceremonies, the corner-stone was duly placed with solemn ceremonies,
io accordance with the established rites of the Craft.

w.·.

The Grand Lodge of Quebec held its twenty-ftfth Annual Commnnication in the
city° of :Montreal January 20, 1896,-the M.-. W.-. JOHN P. NoY11is, Grand Master,
JoeN H. IsucsoN, Grand Secretary. Fifty-eight Lodges were reprethe M.".
sented. There were present ftve Past Grand Masters and a large number of Past
Grand omcer3. There were also present the Representatives of tbirty-fonr sister
Grand Jurisdictions, California being represented by the R.-. W.'. Bro, EDSON FITCH.
The Grand Lod~e was opened in Ample Form.
The Grand Master delivered bis Annnal.Addrees.

w.·.

182 .

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

This being the twenty-fifth anniversary of the birth of the Grand Lodge of Qoebec
the Grand Me.•ter indolged in a. retrospective view of the origin, progress e.nd pres·
ent condition of Masonry in the jorisdiction. Under hee.d of Fre.terne.1 Dead he pa.id
Jost tribute to the me.ny emineni brethren who he.d been with them on their joorney,
hot overcome by the "heat e.nd burden" of the de.y he.d fa.lien out from the ranks
e.nd pe.s•ed to eternal rest.
The circular letters from the Grand Lodges of Mississippi a.nd .W isconsin, in
relation to proposed oniform roles as to jurisdiction over candidates and the adoption of a uniform system of dispensing relief by Grand Dodges, were sobmltted for
the action of the Grand Lodge withont recommendation.
In reporting his officie.l a.cts the Grand Master stated the.t no important qnestion,
of general Interest, he.d been eobmitted to him for decision. Be, however, under the .
hee.d of "the state of Masonry e.t home," uncovers a. case of rebellious e.nd contn·
me.cioDB e.cticn on the pa.rt of one or more subordinate Lodges which, it seems to us,
should he.ve met with prompt, vigoronii and posithre treatment e.t the hands of the
executive head.
The R.·. W.'. Col. FREDERIC lll.1.BSEY was Alected Grand Master; the M.·.
JoHN B. ISAACSON was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The R.·. W.·. Bro. and Rev. JAOOB VooMANGEll is the Representative of the Grand
Lodge of Quebec near the Grand Lodge of California..
The Grand Lodge of Quebec has upon its roll 58 subordinate Lodges , with e. membership of 3,432 Me.•ter Me.eons.

w.·.

The Report on Correspondence is presented by onr R.·. W.·. E.T. D. CBAlll!llEBB, it
being his ninth e.nnoal review of the doings of the several Masonic Leglsle.tnres a.s
represented by the Grand Lodges in correspondence with the Grand Lodge of Quebec.
The review is foll e.nd instroctlve. Bro. CHAMBERS' introdoction is so pertinent a.nd
troe the.t, a.t the risk of being branded e.s e.n inveterate borrower, we qoote it here,
well knowing that it will be appreciated by the Masters and Me.sons for whom it is
Intended:Iu perusing the proceedings of the varions Grand Lodges; one is forcibly strnck
by the freqoent repetition of the same old qnestions and discussions, year after year;
such e.s those having reference to perpetual jurisdiction, secrecy ol' the ballot, the
necessity for e. belief in the divine aothenticlty of the Holy Scriptnres, phy•ical
qfte.litl.cation and such like. Reviewers often show signs of impatience e.t the obsti·
nacy with which these questions refuse to "down,'' and sometimes the freqoency
of their ree.ppee.re.uce is attributed by the older heads to the constenl entry of new
blood into the body of Grand Lodge Chairmen of Committees of Foreign Correspondence. Too often, however, is it forgotten that these reports a.re not a.lone
intended for the delectation of Masonic veterans, bot their utility is often most
apparent to the newly installed Ma.sters and Wardens of ~obordine.te Lodges. Of
these there is a. new generation continue.Uy springing op , to whom there le novelty
a.nd importance in questions that have not been new for a. scope of years pa.st to
me.ny of their seniors.
Bro. Cu.urnERB comments npon the application. of the l:!upreme Cooncil of France
to the Grand Lodge of New York for recognition, with his intelligent critielam of
th'e action of the same Grand Lodge in its acknowledgment of the Gran Diete. of
Mexico, and we shatl a.we.it with some curiosity the justification to be me.de hy the
New York oommittee for its action, well satisfied, however, that throagh the crossexe.mine.tion conducted by Bro. ROBBINS of Illinois· and Bro. ATKINSON of West
Virginie., we shall know a.II a.boot the "Gre.n Diete. Symbotlcli." before we get
iliro~L
.
Bro. CHil!BEllS notices the receipt of an advance copy of .our report, bot e.t that
dMe had not received our proceedings, which gave him bot tittle cha.nee for comJ)lent,

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Oalif<irnia.

183

RHODE ISLAND.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient e.nd Bonore.bte Society of Free e.nd
Accepted Masons for the State of Rhode Island and Providence Ple.nte.tlons, e.ssem·
bled at East Greenwich September 28, 1898, for the purpose of plR.cing the cornerstone of Free Me.sons' Hall.
·
The Semi-Annne.I Communice.tlon of this Lodge we.a held in the city of Pr.ovldence November 20th, 1893,-the M.· . .
ELISHA H. RHODES, Grand Master, the
R.·. W.·. EDWIN BAKEB, Grand Secretary. Twenty'.eight Lodges were represented.
Tbe Grand Lodge was 0 pened in Ample Form with the usual ceremonials.·
Rev. and Bro. HENRY W. RUGG presented a report from the Committee on
Foreign Oorrespondenoe, a.ccompe.nled with the fotlowing resolotion, which was
adopted:-

w.·.

&•oZlled, Tha.i the Grand l.odf!e of Rhode Island hereby recognize the Gra!1d
Lodge of Oklahoma., and extends its fraternal wishes for the growth s.nd prosperity
of the Je.tely formed Grand Body.
•
The Lodges located e.t the city of Providence exemplified the work in the three
degrees upon e.n actual ce.ndida.te, before the Grand Lodge, e.nd received the thanks
of the Grand Lodge for good, honest work.
The Grand Lodge of Rhode faland and Proddence Plantations held its one hnndred and fourth Annoe.l Oommonio.e.tion In the city of Providence May 21st, 1894,the M.·. W.•. ELISHA B. RHODES, Grand Master, R.·. W.·. EDWIN BAKBR, Grand
Secretary. Thirty Lodges were represented. There were present four Pe.st Grand
:Masters and the representations of thirty sister Grand Jurisdictions, our Represents.·
. tive', the R. •. W.•. GBOROB MOULTON CARPENTER, not being present.
The Grand Master delivered his Annoa.l AddreBB. After a. kindly welcome to the
a.ssembled brethren a.nd a.n offering of tbe.nks to the Gracious Father for bis ca.re
and protection since the la.st session of the Grand Lodge, he direc~d the attention
of the brethren to their beloved associates who had rested from their earthly labors,
and, in obedience to the sommons of the grim messenger, had crossed the river to
enter into their eternal rest.
In the reports of his omcie.I acts the Grand Master reported the visitation of every
Lodge in his jurisdiction, and some repeatedly. In his conclosion he e.ssored the
brethren of the· excellent condition of the jurisdiction, with every promise of a
prosperous future.
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence, Rev. and W.·. Bro •.HENBY W. RtrGI>,
Chairman, declined to recommend the recognition of the "Gre.n Diete. Simbolice.,"
of Mexico whose organic life, they say, most depend very largely npon the
validity of ~be action ta.ken by M.·. W.·. Gre.!'d Ma.ste.r of Texl!'I in potting forth
the treaty of Monterey.
The M. •• w. ·. ELISHA R. RHODRB was re eleoted Grand Master of Me.sons in the
State of Rhode Island ancl Providence Plantations. The R.·. W.-. EDWIN BAXBR wa.s
re-elected Grand Secretary.
Five l>istrict Deputy Grand Me.sters exercise supervision over the five Districts
into which the Lodges of the State a.re apportioned.
The oniform roles prepared·by the Grand Lodge of Mississippi were referred to
the Committee on ~'oreign Correspondence.
·
This Grand Lodge held a. Speole.l Commnnice.tion for ilie dedication of the he.II to
be occupied by Franklin Lodge, No.·20, in Westerly, R. I., Me.y 23, 189(.
A grand procession was formed, and. under the escort o! the Grand Com~e.ndery •
proceeded to the · be.II, where the exercise.a were held ID accords.nee with timehonored precedent e.nd Masonic custom.

184

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

An eloqnent address we.s delivered, e.nd after clo1ing the Gre.nd Lodge the brethren
e.ssemhled at the Dixon Honse e.nd enjoyed e. gre.nd dinner given in honor of the
event.
The Gre.nd Lodjle of Rhode Island e.nd Providence Ple.nte.tions bee.rs npon Its
roll thirty-six subordinate Lodges, with e. membership of 4,640 Master Me.sons.
SOOTH AUSTRALIA.

We he.ve received the proceedings of the Gre.nd Lodge of Sonth Anstre.lie., the
EARL OF KlNTOBE, Gre.nd Master, for the Quarterly Commnnice.tions of Jnly, 1893,
October l893, Je.nne.ry, 1894, April, 1894, e.nd the Specie.lCommunice.tion of August
16, 1898.
At the Commnnice.tion of July 19, 1893, h.eld e.t Adele.Ide, the EARL OF KINTORB,
Gre.nd Me.ster, presided; V.•. W.·. J. H. CUNNINGHAM, J. P., being Gre.nd Secretary. Thirteen Lodges were represented, and the Representatives of fourteen sister
Gre.nd Lodges.
·
The Boe.rd of Genera.I Purposes reported.
The Gre.nd Lodge of Okie.home. was recognized e.s e. regular Gre.nd Lodge e.nd e.n
exchange of Representatives provided for. ·
The Grand Lodges of the Federal Dist~ict of Mexico e.nd Wyo ming having req nested
e.n exchange of Representatives, e.nd nominated respectively Bros. BENITO Ju ABES
e.nd CHARLES H. BURBlTT, the Boe.rd recommended thr.t tbey should he elected,
e.nd that the names of Bros. THOMAS GOODE and R. B. WILLIAMS he suggested to
rt>preBBnt those Gre.nd Lodges near the Grand Lodge of South Australia..
0

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Oal,ifornm.

185

B.'. W.'. Bro. P~ILIP SANSOM, P. S. G. W., was elected as'B,·. W.'. Deputy Grand
Master, and duly proclaimed as such by the Deputy Grand Director of Ceremonies,
and was invested and installed by the M.·. W.·. the Pro. Grand Mester, and saluted.
in accordance with ancient custom.
The Grand Lodge of South Australia has thirty-nine snhordine.tes, with e.
membership of 2,378.
.
The M.·. W.·. Pro. Grand Master is the M.·. W.·. Bro. the Hon.S. J. WAY, D.C. L.,
J,ientene.nt-Governor, Chief Justice, Chancellor of Adelaide University, etc.
Bro. N. W. SPAULDING, our late Grand Tree.surer, is the Representative of the
Grand Lodge of South Australia. near the Grand Lodge of California.

,

A Specie.I Communication was held August 16, 1893, the EARL OF KINTOBB, Gre.nd
Master, presiding; v.·. w.·. J. H. CUKllINGHAM, Grand Seorete.ry.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, after solemn prayer by the Gre.nd
Chaple.in.
The consideration of e. certain Trust Deed was had and the same adopted.
Gre.nd Lodge closed in Ample Form, after prayer by the Grand Che.pie.in.

A second Qne.rterly Oommnnice.tion was held October 18, 1893,-the EARL OF
KlNTORB, Gre.nd Me.ster, presiding j v.·. w.·. J. T. CUNNINGHAM, J.P., Gre.nd Secretary.
The Boe.rd of Genera.I Purposes reported.

A third Quarterly was held Je.nne.ry17, 1894,-the M.·. W.• the Hon. S. J. WAY,
D. O. L., e.s Gre.nd Master; V.·. W.·. J. H. CUNNINGHAM, Gre.nd Secretary.
The commission appointing V.•. W.·, Bro. J. H. 0UNNINGHAM e.s the Representative of the Gre.nd Lodge of New York near this Gre.nd Lodge was presented,
together with the Jewel of his office.
A fourth Quarterly was held April 18, 1894,-the M.·. W.·. the Hon. S. J, WAY,
D. C. L., acting Gre.nd Master.
·
Reports were received from the Board of Genera.I Purposes and Gre.nd Inspector
of Lodges.
The Grand Lodge elected the following officers:His Excellency the Rt. Hon. the EARL OF KINTOBB, P, 0., G. 0. M. G., etc., was
elected as M.·. W.'. Grand r.(e.ster, a.nit qq)y proclai111ed a& such by the Grand.
Director of Oeremonies.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge of South Carolina was held in the
city of Rock Hill, May 12th, 1894, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of the
College Building in that city. A procession was formed and the Grand Lodge pro·
ceeded to the site of the college, where the stone was le.id with the usne.l beautiful
and solemn ceremonies of Freemasonry.
The Grand Lodge of South Carolina held its "one hundred and eighteenth"
Annual Communication in the city of Charleston, December 11th, 1894,-the M. •• W. ••
STILES P. DBNDY, Grand Master; R.·. W.·. CHARLBB lNGLEBBY, Grand Secretary.
One hundred and fortv-nine Lodges were represented. Six Pe.st Grand Masters and
the Representatives of twenty-two sister Grand Jurisdictions wer~ present.•
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
After greeting the assembled brethren and involdng the guide.nee of the Supreme
Architect in their deliberations, the Grand Master referred to the business of the
session. He first submitted for the consideration of the Grand Lodge the more
uniform and systematic methorl of disseminating relief e.s proposed by the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin. And he also referred to the National Home for Oonsumptives
about to be este.blishea In New Mexico. He also me.de e. detailed report of the
ca.uses lee.ding to the arrest of the chartjlr of Harmony Lodge, No. 67.
Of the visits of the grim messenger, he says:The r~ll of pa.st and present Grand Officers of this Grand Lodge has not escaped
the ravages of the fell monster during the year now ending.
The e.nnonncement of the dee.th on the 12th day of April le.st e.t his home in
Oemden, S. C., of Past Grand Master Genera.I J. B. KERSHAW, &ent e. thrill of sorr.ow
to the hearts of the Craft throughout our entire tlte.te. Citizen, patriot, soldier,
statesman, judge, Ch-ristie.n, Mason, he is no more.
On the 20th of August le.st, our faithful Sentinel, Bro. W. A. WILBON, Grand Tyler
of this Grand Lodge, was ca.lied from labor below, to be admitted Into the Temple
"not made with hands, eternal in tl1e heavens." I would recommend that e.ppro·
prie.te committees be appointed and that suite.hie memorials of these brethren be
spread on the minutes of this Grand Lodge.
Use for Grand Representatives; the Gre.nd Lodge, on motion of M. •• W.'. LAURIB
T. lBLAR,-

Resolvec.I, That in case any controversy or matter of difference of any character
"he.tsoever should a.rise j}etween this Grand Lodge and any other Grand Lodge
having a Representative nfe.r this Grand Lodge, that the Grand Secretary e.t once
notify the Representative of such Grand Lodge, and lay before him a.II papers
relating to such difference or controversy.
Discussion was had concerning the propriety of Lodges of Sorrow, when the
following interesting reminiscence was related by Bro. fNGLBBBY, the Grand Secretary:-

186

Proceedings of tlie

[Oct. 9,

B. •, W.·. CIIA.RLBB l:!rGLBSBV lj'ILVe au acconnt or a Lodge of Sorrow, held Febrnrnary 28, 1866, by OraJtge Lodge, No. 14, in memory of seven of their members who
bad yielded op their lives in defense of their country in the war Jost then ended.
Bro. INGLESBY had the honor of being the orator of the occasion, and related that
Charleston being then garrisoned by Federal troops, some of the Federal officers,
who were Masone, rendered every 11ssietauce in their power, and their swords were
tendered and need in the . oeremoniee in honor of the deceased be roes of the Lost
Cause. The whole ritual and proceedings of thie l·odge of Borrow were printed and
bound with the By·Lawe of Orange Lodge, No. H.
The death of Paet Grand Master JosEPH B. KEBSHAW is announced, and an
eloqnent trihnte paid to hie memory by M.·. W.·. JOHN D. KENNEDY.
The Grand Master ae a strict constructionist : In answer to au inquiry, the Grand Master ruled that the loss of a toe by a candidate after hie initiation prevented said candidate from an,y further advanoe In
1111'.ileonry.
Booth Carolina bears npon her roll one hundred and ~ighty-two chartered Lodges,
with a membership of 5,797 Master Masone.
Bro. CHARLES lNGLESllY presents the Report on dorr.eel'!>ndence.
conclusion : -

He says in hie

We know that comparatively few take the tronble to read these reports. If it
was known Rod understood that they are the result of many long hours of real hard
work, they wonld possibly be more appreciated.
The Committee on Correepondl!nce, Bro. 0. SHEPPARD, Chairman, in their report
to the Grand Lodge, say:We earnestly commend these words of oar respected and zealc.ue Grand Secretary to the Craft in this Grand Jurisdiction, and suggest to the subordinate Lodges,
through their representatives, that it will promote the interests, broaden the information, and elevate the tone of their respective Lodges, to have these reporu read,
from time to time, at the regular Commnnication• of the Lodges, because from these
reports we gather the rulings of the dilferent Grand Lodges with whom we correspond npon nearly every point of .Masonic law and ueRge. By comparison we can
discover the virtues and defects that may exist, and thereby be enabled to accept
what is right, and reject what le wrong, thu• eecnring that uniformity in lllaeonic law,
which shonld be of eqnal importance, and sboold be as earnestly sought after as
uniformity in the ritnal.
•
Bro. l!ll'GLESBY gives ue a review of sixty.three Grand Bodies, making an excellent,
painstaking report of the legislation of the Masonic world.
Under Arkansas, be notes the death of an eminent Mason.

He says:-

Since writing the foregoing, we are pained to receive a chcnlar, dated August
14.th, 1894., annonnc.ing the death of Peat Grand Lectnrer R.-. W. •. D. B. WARREN,
which took place July 30th, 1894, at b is home at Gaineville. This distinguished
brother was an active and prominent member of the Grand Lodge of Arkansas, and
his death is a great loes to tho Fraternity of that jurisdiction. They have our warm
sympathy in their affliction.
Under California, Bro. INGLJISBY notes the illnesa of our Grand Master, Bro.
GBITM.A.N, and the reading of his Address by Past Grand Master CoNJ:Ln<, who, by
the by, is the Representative of the Grand Lodge of Sooth Carolina near the Grand
Lodge of California. The illneea mentioned by Bro. lNGLESBY waa tb11 last for our
onr afflicted Grand Master, who lingered but a few months after the close of the
eee•100. He notices and approves our general legielatiou ; dissents from our committee's report- in re the social reaturee, and so do we. Bro. lNGLESBY says : We have 11.lwaye argued that the social features of Masonry must be fostered and
promoted, for Masonry le essentially a social inetitntion.
He agrees with our Committee on Jnrleprndence npon the Representative qnee·

Grand Lodge oj California.

1895.]

187

lion in the correspondence with Pennsylvania, bot repeats an old opinion that " the
game ie not worth tlie candle." He eaye "lt ie like doge fighting over an absolutely
dry bone."
He alludes to the charitable beqneste of onr Grand Lodge, and says: "Happy the
Grand Lodge which bas the means to do encb things.'' All honor to the Grand
Lodge which , having the means, does sncb things.
Under Canada, Bro. INGLESBY quotes an Interesting paper entitled " Reminlacencea of Irish Lodges in Canada." We give an extract:"Reminiscences of Irish [,odgee in Canada." From it "."e ar«: t<?ld t~at to the
Grand Lodge of Ireland and the Irish Loditea nnder that JUrisd1ct100 1s due t.he
honor of having established the Hret Maeomc Lod_ge in Cana_d a and other colomee
under the Bl"itieb Crown; and nl•o the credit of being the fir_!lt to urge the necessity
of e•tablisbing an Inde pendent Grand ~odge o! Freemasons m Canada.
The paper is a mo~t valuable a:nd mtereet.mg one, and wa!'t of e~ace alone forbids our quoting very largely from it. There 1e an extr~mely mterest~ng account of
·Lodge No. 227, which was a Military Lnrl~e attached to the. 46th. Reg1!'1e~t (Foot),
In 1777-78 the 4.Stb was sta tioned at Ph1ladelpbla, and durmg th1e period 1te famooR
"bullock cheat with bra•s monntings," containing the Lodge warrant from the Grand
Lodge of Ireland working tools, regalia, &c., fell into the hands of the American
troops. It was shortly thereafter returned t o the regiment by Bro. Gen. GEORGE
WASHilll'GTON. under a. bg of truce, and escorted by a gnard or honor. In 1808,
while the regiment was at Dominico, the •• ~acred old trunk" was ~aptured bv the
French troops, but it was returnert to the regiment by Napoleon I. 'Ihe same Lodge
established Freemasonry in Australia.
Under Delaware, Bro. INGLESBY writes hie disapproval of th.e p ractice of not
Installing re-elected Lodge or Grand Lodge officers, which we moat certainly think
t he correct rnling.
The M.·.
CLAUDE E. SAWYER was elected Grand Master j the R. ••
CHARLES INGLBSBY was re-elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Bro. CHA.JILES
INGLESBY, Charleston.
The next Annual CommnniMtion of the Grand Lodge of Sooth Carolina will be
held in the city of Charleston Deoember 10, 1895.

w.·.

w.·.

&QUTH DAKOTA.
The Grand Lodge of South Dakota held its twenty-first Annual Communication
in the city of P ierre Jone 11, 1895.-tbe M,'.
WILLIAM c. ALLEN, Grand Master,
the R.·.
GEOBGE A. PE'l'TIGREW, Grand Secretary. Seven· Pest Grand Mastera
were in attendance; with the Representatives or seventeen elater Grand Juriedlctlone and sixty-nine constituent Lodges.
The Grand Lodge was opened le Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master delivered his Anunnl A.ddreae,~ in which be expressed, on ·
behalf or the brethren aesembled, their gratit ude to Deity for bleesinge past and
proeJ>ectlve ; congratnlating them upon their paat history and. their nnited hopes of
a glorious future.
'l'be condition of the jurisdiction he pronounces prosperona, in the face of great
business depression consequent upon the failure of the induatriea of the S ta te, the
credit for which be ascribes to the wise and economical management or their Grand
Lodge intereeid.
Four new Lodges had been constituted during the year, nod fl ~ e dispensations
granted for the formation of five additional Lodges within the jnrisdiotlon, one of
which had caused some local frritation from its proximity to 11 neighboring Lodge.
The Grand Master believed that existing difficulties would be harmonized and for tbe
benefit or all.

w.·.

w.·.

188

Proceedings of tl1e

[Oct. 9,

The Grand Master recommends the abolition of tbe affiliatio~ fee, believing that
Lodge membership will be largely in~reased thereby. He also advised tbe repeal
of the regnlation admitting clergymen without charge.
The portrait of the Grand Master is introduced to the reader on the first page of
the proceedings.
Bro. RICHARD M:. MALONEY is the representative of the Grand Lodge of Califor·
nia near the Grand Lodge of Sooth Dakota.
Tbe Report on Correspondence is by Bro. W111. BLATT, Past Grand Master. Bro.
BLA'l'r writes an interesting review of the legislation of fifty-six Grand Jurisdictions.
Ia his notice of California onr reports and general legislation seem to meet bis
approval. He expresses bis regrets at the declination of the Grand Lodge to pension the widow of Past Grand Master STBVERBON, We will state here for the infor.
mation of brethren ontside of onr jurisdiction. that Bro. STBVENBON was a member
of our oldest, largest and wealthiest Lodge ; abundantly able and always willing to
respond to the calls of their widows and orphans for relief. It would, therefore, be
a po1itive injustice to all other Lodges, In our jurisdiction, to select the wards of
one and grant relief from fonds provided by all. The application to the Grand
Lodge was inadvertently made and not denied by the r.rand Lodge, but the peti·
tioners directed to the proper persons to consider their claim.
Under Maine he quotes, to endorse, the following excellent comments of Bro.
JOSIAH H. DRUllHOND upon the dlepo1ition to restrict individual ria-hts and prlvi·
legee. That's right, Bro. Bu.TT; to follow DBu111110ND is to "keep in the middle of
the road:"We dislike to find a grow(ng tendency to rnetrict the rights and privileges of the

lndlv~dual Mason; we dislike more . to ftud that "Masonry for revenue only" Is

growmg upon the Craft. ~ro. SPRED m elfect admits tbat the old usage and the old
law were the other way. He cites Massachusetts In favor of his position, but the
clause to which he refers relates to candidates for initiation and not for m11mber·
•hip, and MaSBachosetts still adheres to the old IRW and practice. Re bases hie
objection upon the ground that the old law makes a Milson amenable to two Grand
Lo~ge jurisdictions a~ the same time, that of hie Lodge memberthip and that of hi•
1·e11~. We submit that Bro. SPEED has not written with his usual accuracy. A
Mason 18 amenable to Jaw of the Guod Lodge lo which he. u whether be resides
there, or has. membership there, or ne_ither.. The law i• fnlly ~ettled now that ir a
Ma•oo commits an offense lo lbe territory of any Grand Lodge he is amenable
therefor to that. Grand Lodge. This question arose a few year~ ago between the
Gr.and Lodges of Tenn.eHee and Kentucky, aod wae folly discussed, and the propo·
e1t100 stated was sustained by the cvn.sensus of opinion to the extent that the Grand
Lodge holding the opposite doctrine yielded the point.
. Bro. BLATT pays affeotionate tribute to oar fallen columns, the illostrione brethren,
'
Rloa.um VAUX, of Pennsylvania, and Jos&PH K. WHKBJ.BR, of Coonecticnt.
" Fast as the rolling seasons bring
The boor of fate to those we love,
Ee.ch pearl that leaves the broken string
Is set in friendship's crown above.
i\e narrower grows the earthly cbain,
The ~ircle widens io the sky ;
These are our treasares that remain,
But those are stars that beam on blgh.''
We join you, ',Bro. BLATT, io depositing the evergreen sprig of acacia upon the
mounds of1our good brethren.
M.'. W.·, FBEDERIOX H. FILES was elected Grand Master i R.·, W.·. GBoBGB A.
PB'l'TillRRw was elected Grand Secretary. M.·. W.". . WILLIAll BLATT, Yankton,
Oorreepondent.
The next Annnal Commnnicatioo will be held at Buron June 9, 1896.

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California.

189

TENNESSEE.

Tbe Grand Lodge of Tennessee met in Special Comm.nnioatlon in the city of Nash·
ville Sonday, December 2, 189,. Foorteen Lodges were represented. Seven Past
Grand Masters and a large number of Paet Masters and members of the Grand Lodge
.
were present.
The Grand Lodge was opened io Ample Form with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The M.·. W.'. Grand Master stated that the Grand Lodge had been called and
opened for the pnrpose of cooductiog the funeral ceremonies over the remains of
our B.'. W.·. brother, JOHN FarzzBLL, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge was then called to refreshment until 3:30 P. :11., after which it
proceeded in a body to the residence of the deceased, and from there to the Edge· ·
field Cnmberland Presbyterian Church. At the conclusion of impressive religions
servioeP, the body was conveyed to Mt. Olivet Cemetery, and bnried with "M aeonic
Honors," M.'. W.'. H11:11aY A. CBAMBERS, Grand Master, officiating.
On motion, the Grand Treasorer waa directed to pay mileage to the Grand and
Past Grand Officers and Representatives of subordinate Lodges in attendance upon
lhie session, and to provide for the lnciden1al expenses inoorred.
The M.'. W.·. Grand Master anoonoced the following committee-the first named
to be chairman-to prepare and present for consideration of the Grand Lodge at its
next annual meeting a suitable .Memorial of Grand Secretary and Past Grand Mas·
terJOHN FBIZZBLL, viz.: JA.HBB D. RIOHARDSOK, P . G. M., THOMAS o. MORBIS, P.G. M.,
and ·M. 0. SHALLlfAN, P. G, M.
No farther baeioess appearing, the M..-. W." Grand Lodge of Tennessee ·was closed
In Ample Form.
The Grand Lodge of Tennessee held its eighty-first Annual Communication In the
city or Nashville January 30, 1895, the M... W.·. HBNRY A. CHUIBQS, Grand Master,
the .R.·. W.". JoBN R. FBIZZllLL, Grand Secretary. Four hundred and one Lodges
were represented. There were present fourteen Past Grand Masters, one Paet Deputy Grand Master, and four Put Junior Grand Wardens,
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form with prayer by the Grand Chaplain, and the Grand Master delivered bis Annual Address.
The Grand Master extended a hearty greeting to the six hundred Masons aesem.
bled, representing the nineteen thousand Masons of the jariedlctioo. He said:We should be thaakfal we are here to-day-thankful for the health and strength
that enabled Qij to come, and for all the varied blessings of the past year.
We should be thaokfal. too, for the fortitude that God has given us to bear thoee
things;we call ills, which He may have placed upon us-for the good Father imposes
burdens as well as bestows blessings on Bis children.
Bot while we as individuals should mee~ together in this thankful spirit, we, as
Masone aud memhers of this Grand Lodge, cannot altogether shake off the burden
of sorrow we feel, because. since our last annual meeting, death has taken away
useful, eminent and honored members, whose forms and faces and voices have been
familiar here in tbe years gone by.
"Just five weeks after the closing of the last Grand Lodge, in the buelbese of
which be took such an active and alfecting part," says the Grand Master," Paet Grand
Master Co1111oa died, and it was my first Si£d official duty to Issue the aonoqncement
of hie death.'' •That official announcement was attested 'by" JOHN FaIZZllLL, Grand
Seoretary.'' In lees than nine months thenafter, this eminent and beloved brother
·
11lso ended his earthly labors.
"And'still another goe•t we bring.'' Paet Senior Grand Warden JOHN W. HuGHES
died at bis home in Clifton, April 19, 189,, Of him, Bro. BAIINARD, of the IlllnolB
Grand Chapter, has said:-

190

Proceedings of the

. [Oct. 9,

· A. devoted husband, a loving father, a zealons Christian and an enthusiastic Mason,
he will be sadly missed. Bis body was consigned- to the tomb with the impressive
rlghl.8 of Masonry, in the presence of a large concoorse of monrning friends.
CONNOB, BUGBKB, FRIZZllLL I A.II dead in one short year!
"How fast ihey fall-those we have known,
.As leaves from antnmn branches blown,
So qnickiy sear!
Yet, one by one they drop away,
A.s withered leaves that fall and stray
And diaappear."
The letters announcing the deaths of these eminent brethren indicated, to some
extent, the loss to the Fraternity by their deaths. Bot the 1088 to me, personally, in
the performance of the dntles of Grand Master, has been exceptionally great. At
the last annnal meeting several of my predecessors, who knew the difficulties before
me, congratniated me-and I also deemed myself peculiarly fortnnate-that, in the
feeble condition of Bro. JOHN FBIZZ!LL, the mentor of my predecessors, I lived in
the same city with Bro. CoNNOB, and contd, by personal consnltation, in all difficnit
matters, get the benefit of his great Masonic learning and experience. These two
brethren, by reason of the facts mentioned in the foregoing letters, were qualified
and in position to give prompt and valuable opinions. A letter to Bro. Fittzz&LL,
when in health, or a short consnltation with Bro. Ooimon, wonid generally enable
one to set tie any difficolt.v of Masonic law or procednre. The death of Bro. CON·
l'IOR or illneas of Bro. FruzzKLL deprived me of the benefit of their wise counsel. I
have endeavored, however, so far ae possible, to follow precedent, and herewith
snbmlt the result or my actions as your chief officer.
The Grand Master reported his official acts, giving his rulings in more than fifty
cases that had been bronght before him, although but few have general reference,
the great nnmber being decided by the provisions of the Constitution and laws of
'l'enneBBee.
Five dispensations were issned for the formation of new Lodges.
Under official visitations, the Grand Master writes in a "tired way" the following:
The demands of a most· exacting profeBBion have almost entirely prevented any
official visitation by me.
The experience of the past year has lmpreSBed me with the force of the remark
made by my immeillate predeceBBor, that a Granu Master of Masons in Tennessee
le glad twice-once when he is elected, and again when his snccessor is elected.
The office is no longer, if it ever was. a sinecure. Its duties , fully and conecien.tionsly performed, would take op the whole of any man's time. The number of
rnlings above mentioned, which I have been called upon to m11ke, and appeals and
other questions upon which it bas been my duty to act-some of which required much
thongh t and investigation-l!'ive some indication or the troth of this assertion.
Unless, therefore, the Grand Master be a man of means and leienre, he most, of
necessity, omit, as I have been compelled to do, some dnties appropriate to bis
office. As we now have an admirable system of custodians and district lecturers,
it has seemed to me best to omit the formal vlsitationa. I have only visited the
Lodges or my own oit.y.
The Grand Master submitted the Wisconsin proposition, in regard to charity, to
the Grand Lodge.
The portrait of the Grand Master is published in this volume.
The Grand Lodge of Tennessee be11rs npon its roll six hundred and twenty-eight
Lodges, with a membership of 18,046 Master Masons.
A Oonvocation of Past )[asters was held in the city of Nashville January 31,
1895. Sixty·three Past Masters were present. The business for which they assembled being transacted, the Convocation adjourned.
The M. ·• W.". GEOBGK 8, MORGJ.N was elected Grand Master ; !ht! R.•, W.·. JoBN
B. GJ.N£TT was elected Grand Secretary, Nashville; Chairman of Correspondence,
Bro. li'RANK M. SKIT.II, Knoxville.
The next A.annal Communication will be held in the oity of Nashville January 29,
1896.

1895.J

Grand Lodge of California.

191

TEXAS.

· The Grand Lodge of Texas held its ftl'ty-niuth A.nnnal Oommnnication in the oity
of Houston, December 4., 1894.,-the R.". W.·. B. F. FRTillllB, Grand Master, the
B.·. W.". W. F. SW.I.IN, Grand Secretary. Two bnndred and seventy-fonr Lodges
were represented.
There were present at roll-call fifteen Past Grand Master~. the Representatl ves
of twenty-four sister Grand Jurlsdictious, with twenty-nine District Deputy. Grand
Masters.
Bro. THOMAS llil. JllJ.1'THllWS, ;:if Athens, Past Grand Master and Ohairman of
Oorrespondeuce, tepresents the Grand Lodge of California near the Grand Lodge
of Texas., while our veteran, NATHANIEL GBEKN£ CURTIS, Past Grand Master of
Sacramento (uotSan Jose), takes care to see that TeJ:B>I is not imposed upon in this
latitude.
The Grand Lodge of Texas bears upou her roll the names and nnmbel'>1 of 677
constltnent Lodges. A good, big, healthy jurisdiction is onr sister of Tens.
The jurisdiction of Texas is di-fided into llfty-six districts, each being supervised
by a District Deputy Grand Master.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap·
lain,
The Gr1ind Master proceeded to deliver hie Annual AddreBB. First giving the
assembled brethren a fraternal greeting, he directed their attention to the mercy
ftud goodnePB of the Supreme Grand Master, through whose guidance they had been
enabled to meet once more i·n A.annal Oommunlcation.
Referring to the uncertainty of human life he said :Bat each succeeding year the " vaii of eternity falls around as," and while
Indulging in fraternal greetings aronnd onr common altar, we will not forget to shed
a tear of sympathy and pay a tribute of respect to the memory of such of onr
beloved and distinguished brethren as h11.ve gone. before to that undiscovered
conntry from whose bourne no traveler retnrns.
PAST. GRAND 111.1.BTKB, PHILIP C, TUCKBB,
·D ied very soddenly of apoplexy in the city of Washington, D. 0., Joly 9, 1894. Be
was born in Vergennes, Vermont, February 14, 1826, aud came to Texas November,
.
1862, .making his home In Galveston.
He w>1B an active member of the Howard A.88ociatlon daring the yellow fever
epidemics that visited Galveston. Night and day for long months in each epldemio
he never weakened or failed; what man oonld do for the sick and snftering was done
by him and ~is associates. Everywhere, at all times, under all circumstances, he
performed faithfnlly, punctnally and tboronghly every dnty, civil and Masonic,
impo•ed npon him by the natnre of his office.
Bis remains were received at his home in Galveston, where imposing honors
were paid to his memor~ and were laid to rest in the CUy Oemetery on Joly 15th
nnder the auspices of 1:1armony and Tucker Lodges of that city, assisted by other
Masonic bodies.
To those near and dear to him, who have been bereft of a loving husband and
father, we tender our sympathy and brotherly love.
"It is well:
God's ways are always right,
Arid love ls o'er them all,
Tbo' far above onr sight"
We also mourn the loss of many other faithful and trne brethren of this Grand
Jnrisdlc~ion who have been called to rest during the past year.
The Grand Master referred also to the visits of the grim reaper to sister jurisdiotlons and \heir loss of eminent brethren, and in deepest sorrow tendered the
sympathy of the Gtand Lodge of Texas to the monrning jurisdiotions.
The commnnications from Mississippi referring lo the adoption of nniform roles
in regard to jurisdictiou, and the memorial from Wisconsin npon the qnestiou of
Masonic relief, were submitted to the Grand Lodge for their consideration.

192

Proceedings of the

The report of the Deputy Grand Master in regard to dispensations gra~ted by
him for enndry parpoeee was read and referred.
The Widowe'.and Orphans' Home .Fund now amounts to more than 878,000, invested
·
in Interest-bearing .s ecurities, A Texas. Home will soon be in order,
The Report on Correspondence is presented by Paet Orand Master TH01u.e M.
MATTHBws, who ably reviews the doings of flfty-fonr Grand Lodges, and comments
liberally upon their legislation. Bro. MATTH11ws' report id especially lntereetina- to
us from hie knowledge of the facts connected with the history of the" Gran Diet&."
Under California, Bro. MATTHEWS notes the illness of Grand Master OBITllAN
which preventeu him from discharging the duties of the eeBBion and carried hi~
.
'
"across the river'' in a few months thereafter,
He congratulates the brethren of California ill the progress shown toward the
creation of a Home for Widows and Orphans of California Masone. He also commends the good work done by our Boards of Relief, Bro, EUGENE DBOPllBY's oration
le mentioned with approval.
Bro. MATTHEWS also approves the report of our Committee on Juriepradel)oe in
the consideration or the Grand Representative qaeetion in their review of the action
of Graod Master ARNOLD of P1mneylvanla.
Bro. MATTHBWB evidently believes, with a good many of us, and the number le
growina- larger, I am glad to say, monthly, as the reason for non-attendance at
Lodge meetings forces itself upon their attention, that a Lodge of Masone-not
children-bavlng performed all its duties to the Grand Lodge &nd ite"own charities,
should have a voice in the disposition of ite funds, especially as the object aimed at
le the promotion of social intercoaree and in the direct interest or good fellowship
and the prosperity of the Lodge.
Bro. MATTBBWS voices a great troth in the following few words, after 8 kind
message to Bro. ANDEl'BON :You are correct in _y our impreBBion, that with us "Masonry has been a profound
study.'' We love It w1tb our whole nature-its pl"actice, its principles and Its teachi~ge. With us it is second only to oar religion ; in troth 'tie almost co-equal with it·
'tie each a helpmeet. We have often told our brethren within "the tiled Lodge that
we believed a man might be a Ohrietian and yet not a Mason, but we do not beliBOe
he can be a Mason and not be a Christian, though it may · not be a profeBBed one.
But we must atop here and say good-bye,
Under Pennsylvania, in answer to Bro.VAUX on the Representative question, Bro,
•
MATTHBWB writes:But we cannot so readily agree with our good brother in regard to Grand Representatives. If hie premise were right, that these offioere are purely the creatures of
Gr&nd Masters, th.en he is right. With the origin of the custom we are not oonver·
BBDt. It may be it was as Bro. VAUX aeserts, but, certain it is that flO!o almost
everywhere he repreeepte the Grand Lodge, ie so recognix.ed, and hie authority to do
so is attested by the signature or· the GrHnd Secretary and the seal of the Grand
Lodge. By authority from the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master appoints names or
reco~ende the. Representative near or. to a sister Grand Lodge. Thle recom~~ndation (appon~tment) ~e reports to his Grand Lodge, which approves, or may,
if it see proper, reJect. Thie Bro. VAUX admits when he says :,,By some posstbly (?) (italic and interrogation point ours) unintentional act of
Grand Secretaries these brethren were sometimes recorded as sent to &nd from Gr&nd
Lodges."
Custom-admit it-has made the law; yet, nevertheleBB, it is• all the same• the
law.
Bo far.as the utilit". or inutility of the Representative is concerned, that ie not
the question •. We think the . office 1e only· a sinecure- all honor and no profitpurely_complim.ent&ry, and without tlet riment to anybody might be abolished. But
we ~lieve th_e Grand Lodge alone h~ the right or power to abolish it ; that it does
not m &ny wise depend upon the simple ipse di zit of the Grand Master. But we
ha;ve e~nt !DO!e time, ink and paper upon the subject th&n it is worth, and so we
migbi diemiBB 1t.

Grand Lodge of California.

1895.]

193

The M.·. w.·. Gus GARRISON was elected Grand Master; the)!B.·. W.·. JOHN
WATBON of Houston was elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, Bro. TuolUS
M. MATTBBWB, Athens.
UTA.EI.

An Emergent Communication of the Grand Lodge of Utah was held Sunday,
June 17th. 189i, for the purpose of conducting the funeral services of M. •• W. · Bro.
ALBION BEBNABD ~r. Junior Paet Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Utah.
During the exercises feeling addreBBee were delivered by Bro. JOHN M. Bow:aulll,
Grand Orator, and Judge C. C. GoonwI!I.

•

The Grand Lodge or Utah held its twenty-fou111 Annual Oommunication in the
city of Ogden, January 15th, 1895,-the M.·. W.·. ABVIB SooTT 0B.ll')l[AN, Grand
M1111ter; the H.·. w.·. CHRIBTOPHEB DIUL, Gr&nd Secretary.
A very handsome phototype of the lirand Master, M.·. W. •. ABVIS Bcorr CHAP·
)l[AN, and hie staff, consisting of the l)ighteen elective and appointed Grand Officers
of the Grand Lodge of Utah, prefaces this volume of proceedings. The eight
Lodges of the jurisdiction were represented. There were present six Paet Grand
Mast.ere, four Past Grand Wardens and the Representatives of twenty.five sister
Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Lodge opened In Ample Form, with prayer by the Gr&nd Chaplain.
Bro. CHABLEB M. BxoUGH, Mayor of Ogden, on behalf of Weber Lodge, No. 6, and
the citizens of Ogden, extended a cordial welcome to the Grand Lodge and gave a
hearty greeting, individually, .to the assembled members. The address of welcome
was responded to by the Hrand Mast.er, and he accepted the offerings of Weber
Lodge, No. 6, and the citizens of Ogden, with thanks . .
The Gr&nd Master delivered hie Annual Address. After a fraternal greeting, he
returned thanks to the Great Architect of the Universe for the bleeeinge of the past,
&nd invoked his gnidance and suppor~ .i n the duties or the present eeeeion,
The Grand Master says:Twice during the year the shadow of death has fallen athwart the threshold of our
Temple, and two of our most honored cral'temen have passed within the vail; the
chairs of Paet Grand Master ALBION BERNARD EMBRY and Deputy Grand Master
RoBBBT LEE SOANNELL are vacant. Both have gone" Into the land of the itreat departed
In to the silent land.''
But we believ" That God is overhead,
And as life is to the living
8o death id to the dead.''
The Grand Master reported the visitation of every Lodge in hie jurisdiction.
Referring to the uniform rules proposed by the Grand Lodge of Mississippi, the
Grand Maste.r says :A circular containing " uniform rules as to the jurisdiction overcandidatee, " hae
been issued by the Grand Lodge of Mississippi. l do not BBnction the measure and
am opposed to "perpetual jurisdiction" in any form . The circular has been placed
in the hand~ of the Committee on Jurisprudence to give it time to prepare and
submit at this BeBBion a r eport upon the subject which will, in no uncertain voice,
proclaim to the Masonic world the opinion Of the <Jrand Lodge of Utah upon that
pemicioue doctrine.
The Grand Master also dissents from the eyetem of dleseminating charity as submitted by the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin.
No import&ni decisions were reported.

13

194

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

The Grand Lodge of Utah bears upon her roll eight Lodges, with 11 membership
of 677 Master Masone.
The M. ·• W. ·, Grand Master invited all the Grand Representatives of sister Grand
Lodges present to Beale on the daie, and he having called np the Gr&nd Lodge, they
were received with the Grand l:lonore.
M.·. W.•. Bro. JOHN SHAW SCOTT, who, by the by, is the Representative of the
Grand Lodge of California near the Grand Lodge of Utah, on behalf of the Grand
Representatives, then addressed the Grand Lodge e.s follows:-

M. •• W.·. G..and..Masiler amt Brethren of the Grar.d. Lodge :0~ behalf of the Representatives of the fifty-eight sister Grand Lodges represented
at tlue our twenty-fourth Annual Communication, I desire to extend our sincere
thanks for the generous and warm-hearted reception which has been accorded us.
The giving of the Grand Hon1tre, in the formal and dignified manner in which it
has been done, is no mere idle ceremony; it is, as it were, an electrical touch upon
the key to your hearts, prompting you to cast 11 pebble o!' good will into the great
ocean of brotherly love, sendmg out in every direction, and to the uttermost ends of
the earth, gentle waves of loving thought to our brethren in every land, bidding
them Godspeed in their noble efforts to maintain and build up the Mighty Tempi" of
·
our Maeonic Faith.
Of late years there seems to have 1&rieen a disposition on the part of some Grand
Lodges to throw discredit on the Grand Representative system, and at leaet five
Grand Bodies have gone so fa.r as to dieoard it altogether . . It seems to me that those
who oppose the system as of no practical benefit have not given the subject that
careful thought and consideration which its importance demands. It is true that
the friendly and brotherly feeling which exists among Masone everywhere permeates
also their Gra~d Lodge org~nizatione, and rarely ~oee it _happen that any disagreements of 11 serious nature arise between Grand Bodie•calhng for any action whatever
on the part of their Grand Representatives; it is also true that those Representatives
hav:e no specified delegaWd authority, yet nevertheless occasions may ari•e when
their ~reeeoce and timely _interve~tion may be productive of much good. Many of
yon will remember the friendly tilt eorl1e years ago before this G1·and Lodge between
Bro. DIBHL, as th~ Grand Representative of the Grand Lodge of Quebec, and myself
as the Representative of t~e Grand Lodge of Scotlan_d, anent the di•pute then existing
~etween those Grand Bodies. As 11 reenlt of that d1ecuee1on no haety action of non·
1~tercourse toward the Grand Lodge of Scotland was taken, full sympathy with the
views of the Grand Lodge of Quebec wa.e expressed and the ultimate result wa.e as I
predicted it would he; the three Lodge• in the Province of Quebec which were work·
!Dg u~der chll!tere from ~e Grand ~dge of Scotland eventually 1111w their interests
m their true hght, and with the advice and consent of their Mother Grand Lodge
~ave up their charters and joined their fortunes with those of the Grand Lodge of
Quebec.
Grand ¥"aster GmB?N of _<Janada, in his able address before that Grand Lodge in
1898, alludmg to the d1scontmuance of the system of <;rand Lodge representation bv
•
the Grand Lodges o.f Pennsylvania and Iowa, speaks as follows:"The system c~ets nothing, ~nd circumstances can be imagined, and have
occurred, under which representatives abroad bave been of practic•I service and
advantage. ~ut1&part from any other rea.eon the manifestation to the world of satisfactory relationship between Grand Lodges, which appears to be implied in these
.a.ppointments_. ~s. well ae the OJ?~ortunity affo!<led fo.r formal interchange of courtesies and exh1bit10n of the spmt of fratermty, which otherwise might seldom or
never present itself, as between sister jurisdictions more or less remote from one
another, seem 11 sufficient justification of the continuance of a custom, which, if not
very useful, has, at 111! events, so far as we are concerned, proved most agreeable."
In addition to that I would suggest the further thought that the brethren wbo are
sele_cte~ !'-8 Grand Representatives are invariably tho>e who on account of their zeal.
their dihgei;ice and love of M11BOnry have been pointed out to the Grand .Master aH
the mos~ Hmtable _brethren to be recommended to _o ther Grand Lodges llB their Representatlveil. ~tis the custom.of ~rand Secretaries ~o send .a copy of their Grand
Lodge proceedrngs to e&<:h of its (,rand Representatives; these proceedings are a
well of knowledge and mform•tion on all •nbjects appertaining to Freema.eonry ·
they are taken to their homes and in leisure hours carefully scanned, and thus i~
diffused through~ut ~he l!llld 11 much clearer idea of the aims, objects and purposes
of O?r nobl_e Institution, it~ methods and system of governme"t, than could be dis·
eemmaied m ~ny other wa.i:. The system of rep1·esen tation thus becomes 11 great
educator, 1md mstead of bem,s; !l useless appendage, as some .Maeonic writers have, l
th1uk, too hastlly concluded, it is rather a most efficient auxiliary for the diffu~ion of'
.Masonic light throughout the world.

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Califurnia.

195

The special committee, to whom was referred the circular of th~ Grand Lodge of
Wisconsin, also declined the in\'itation of that Grand Body to join in the adoption
of the proposed method of the dieeemination of M11BOnic relief, llB follows :Your dpecial committee, to whom was referred so much of the Grand Master's
Address as relates to the circular of the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin, cannot do better
than to join the Grand Master and to r ecommend the republishing of the Report of
the Committee of the 8alt Lake City Board of Reliefpre.s ented in 1883, thereby reiterating the view of the Grand Lodge of Utah ~n the re1mbureeme.nt system. Bro.
SAMUEL KAHN and Bro. 8ENRY MoNHEur,.who signed the report with our esteemed
Paet Grand Master JoeN B. SooTT, have since "joined the great majority," but we
do know that if they were still with us would sign it again.
A splendid portrait of the lamented ALBION BERNARD ElrKBY, Grand lll11Bter in
1893, is published, preceding the mourning page devoted to his memory. An a.ffectionate and deserved tribute by Bro. CHBISTOPHBB DIEHL completes the testimonial
to this representative American Mason. Bro. ElllEBY died in San Fra.ncieco, June
13th, 189<l.

The veteran DIEHL once more comes to the rront with 11 review of fifty-six Grand
Lodges as hie quota to the Masonic literature of 189<l. Gifted with Masonic know!·
edge, born of experience, his comments ere instructive as they are interesting, and
furnish to the inquiring reader valuable information as to the porpose and effect of
the legislation of the Grand Lodges of the world.
Under California, Bro. DIEHL notes the illness of Grand Master GBITM.AN, which
resulted in hiB death a few months thereafter; be also refers to the death of our
W.·. Bro. GEORGE E. WeITNEY, 11 former resident of Utah, and wbom he claeeee as
"one of God's noblemen."
Bro. DIEHL commends the report of our Committee on Jurieprodence on the
statue, rights and duty of DOD·Rffiliates. In hie comments he says :We call that sound and sensible talk. A Mason must be a member of some
Lodge meet with hie brethren and pay dues, thereby assisting it in its work of
charity. In the dictionary of the Grand Lodge of California the words "Perpetual
Jurisdiction" is not to be found. Hear what the Committee on Jurisprudence has to
say on that point.
Bro. DIEHL compliments Bro. DEUPB&Y, our Grand Orator, upon the excellence
of bis Oration. He says: "During the last twenty-three years we have read many
exellent orations, but never a better one than that delivered by Bro. DEUPBEY."
Bro. DiEBL bas good words for the liberality of the Grand Lodge of C11lifornl11, ns
exemplified in the remembrance of the needs of her old-time raitbfnl se·rvitore, Past
Grand Masters 8TEVENBON and TuTT.
Bro. DI.EHL compliments the work or Bro. A.NDEBSOM, our predeceeeor, and regrets
his intended retirement. He says, among his comment., "Lodges in California are
not permitted to use Lodge funds for any social purpose whatever; "they are t~ be used
only for the usual Lodge expeosee and charity." And adds: "We believe in and
advocate the social features of Masonry , They are 11 pa.rt of it; they were prac·
iiced by the Fathers, and If they k.e pt within due bounds advance the usefulness of
the institution."
We are in foll accord with Bro. DIEHL in bis theory 118 above expressed, and
believe it not only the right but the duty of our Lodges to cultivate the social feat·
nree of our profession, and that it will result in the cure ot the prevailing disease
of non-atteuoaoce upon Lodge meetings and consequent lack of interest in Lodge
affairs. We think that a Lodge of Masons having performed its duty to the Grand
Lodge and its assumed ~harities, should control the disposition of its eorpl,us
funds, under, of course, necessary Grand Lodge restrictions, and in conformity with
the original plan Rod groundwork of Masonry. When irritation and dissatisfaction

196

Proceedings of the

Grand Lodge of (]alifornia.

[Oct. 9,

is produced by the enforcement of regulations in Masonic government, It is good
evidence that tbey need amending.
The M. '. W.-. ALVIN 0HARLll:R EllKBSON was elected Grand Master; the R." W."
CHBISTOPHEB DIEHL was re-elected Grand t>ecretary; Chairman of Correspondence,
Bro. CHlllSTOPHllR DlllllL, Salt Lake City.
VERMONT.

The Grand Lodge of Vermont held its one hundred and first Annual Communication at the city of Burlington, June 13, 1894,-.!l.'. W.·. JOHN H . WmPPLE,
Grand Master, R. ', W. '. WARREN G. REYNOLDS, Grand Secretary.
Vermont has enrolled 104 Lodges, with a membership of 9,466 Master Ma.sons.
One hundred and one Lodges were represented at this the one hundred and
tirat Annual Communication.
Past Grand Master GBO. W . WING represents California near the Grand Lodge
of Vermont, and Past Grand Master WILLIAM C. HELOHER represents Vermont
near tht> Grand Lodge of California.
Seven Past lirand Masters and the Representati Yes of forty sister Grand
Jurisdictions responded "present " at roll-call.
Two Special Communications were held during the yaar. The first Novem)Jer
21, 1893, at Williamstown, for the constitution of Summit Lodge, No. 104, at that
place, and the second at Hartford, May 3, 1894, for the dedication of the new hall
of HartflYl'd Lodge, No. 19.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
Chaplain.
The V. '. · W.. Deputy Grand Master of the Province.of 0.uebec was admitted,
under eacort, and cordially welcomed to the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master ddivered his Annual Address, which he commenced by
uniting with the Very Rev. Grand Chaplain in grateful thanksgi Ying to the "Giver
of all good " for the manifold bl~sings of the pa.iit, and in Yoking His care and continued protection through the responsibilities of the coming year:We meet to-day in the one hun<lred and first Annual Communicati<>n to review
the labors of the p~t . ye.ar, to participatE' in importai;it delibera~io~s, renew our
concern over the vanous mteres~ of _the Order, and withal to umte m celebrating
the eentennial anniversary of our organization as a Grand Lodge, "independent
and governed solely by its own laws."
Under necrology, the Grand Master adds his meed of tribute to the memories
of those eminent brothren w}lo have been summoned and pa..sed from the ranks of
the living since the last annual meeting. The gifted CONNOR of Tennessee; the
eloquent DAVIDSON of Georgia; the patriot, soldier and leader of Michigan,
INNBS; the beloved Grand MaAter of Ma11S&Schusetts, RICHARD BRIGGS, are mentioned as bright examples of the sublime tenets of Masonic faith and practice.
The beloved brethren of their own kindred and families are given affectionate
rememqrance, and pages set apart in the journal devoted to a record of their Masonic service and the esteem in which they are held· by their brethren.
Under decisions, the Grand Master decided in No. 10 :It ia not the duty of the Secretary to notify the higher .orders of Masonry of
the expulsion of a member, although I am under the iwpression it is customary to
.
do so.
The Committee on Jnrisprudence report of this decision :-

r

197

While this decision was warranted, in view of the fact that the Grand Lodge
ha8 never taken any action upon the subject, we believe it in the interest of
M..sonry that the Secretary of a Lodge in which a member is suspended or
expelloo should at once communicate the fact to the Secretaries of all known Masonio bodies with which the party is affiliated, and to secure this we recommend
the adoption nf the following standard resolution:Ruol·ved That in case of the suspension or expulsion of a member of a Lodge
the Secreta~v thereof shall forth with give notice under the seal of the Lodge to
the Secretary nr Recorder of all other Ma.sonic bodies with which said suspended
or expelled members are known to be affiliated.
The organizations of Chapters and Commanderies are directly interested in the
Lodge stflnding of their membership, and any rule having for its object the
furnishing of tha required information is important to each organization, and will
itid harmonious relations between the bodies. The rule is a good one.
The Grl\nrl Master reported his official acts; submitted the invitation of the
Grand Lodge of Colorado t o join in the celebration of t he one hundredth anniversary of the death of Bro. GEORGE WASHINGTON; &lso the invitation of Supreme
Council of Belgium to participate in a Universal Congress to be held at Antwerp
·
in July of this year.
The Grand Master declares himself in favor of a relaxation of the rule in
regard to physical qualifications. He presents the usual conclusive arguments.
But, Bro. MITCHELL, what convention, or committee, or power will revise the landmarks that we may gain the companionship of the great number of "intellectual
cripples" anxiously awaiting a knowledge of our mysteries!
The Grand Master was an attendant upon the Masonic CongreBB, and submit.•
s. rsport; of his m iBBion. The reception of the delegates at Chicago _by the brethren
or Illinois was all that coulEI be· desired, and the deliberations, altl;lough without
authority, were interesting, and the exchange of ideas and opinions upon questions
· at iBBue and those likely to arise in thP near future were believed to be of decided
benefit to the Masonic Fraternity.
Th13 Grantl Mi,tster also presented the proposed uniform rules as to jurisdiction
over candidates of the Grand Lodge of Mississippi, and urged their serious consideration.
The Grand Master of the District of Columbia, the M. '. W. •• HKNEY S. MBRRILL, was received, under escort, introduced and welcomed by the Grand Master.
Congratulatorytel~grams were exchanged with the Grand Lodge of Manitoba.
' The Committee on Correspondence, Bro. MABBH 0. PERKINS, Chairman,
referring to the invitation of Colorado to join in celebrating the anniversary of
the death of Bro. GEORGE WASHINGTON reported, recommending that the M.'. l.V.·.
Grand Master be a committee on the part of this Grand Lodge to join with eister
Grand Lodges iu perfecting the arrangements for such observance, and that he be
empowered to appoint his alternate for the purpose named.
The Committee on Juri,prndence, in a very able report; responded to the
Grand Master's opinions in ~ard to physical qualificationA, and presented a
resolution, which was adopted by the Grand Lodge, as follows:Ruol'IJtld, That physical ability to earn a livelihood, and to conform substantially to the forms and ceremonies of Masonry, an<!. be instructed in its mysterieA
is ali that is required, providing thfl candidate possesses the higher qualifications
of a beliaf in God, of mental worth and the record of a moral and upright life;
that this interpretation of the ancient charges and regulations is not inconsistent
with the true spirit of the Masonic institution, but iii keeping with ite sublime
teachings from time immemorial,.
"Anrl to conform " substantially "to the forms and ceremonies of Masonry."

198

Proceedings of tlie

199

Bro. PERKINS notes the illness of the Grand Master, M.·. W. •• CHAllLlro'I RAY
GRITMAN, and sends good wishes for hie recovery. But
"There comes a. time, it comes to all,
When we shall hear the Warden's call;
And ea.ch with Ashlar, rough or true,
Must pass Death's solemn portal throul(h."

Now, Bros. HALL, BOWMAN and WING, do give us a construction of the sentence; does it mean anything?
A District Deputy Grand Masters' meeting was held in Burlington, October
19, 1893, for the consideration of the work of the jurisdiction. The meeting was
opened with an address from the Grand Lecturer. Addresses were made by
several of the Past Gra.ud Masters and the Grand Officers. Tt.e District Deputy
Grand Masters presented their reports, showing a thorough visitation of the
Lodges in the several (thirteen) districts.
The centennial celebration was held in the city of Burlington, June 13, 1894.
The order of exercises was a public para.de, an historical address centennial
;'3oem, with a. banquet and social festivities in the evening, and, fro0: the report
m the elegant volume before us, we believe the programme was fully carried out
to the great enjoyment of the brethren,· Iheir ladies and distinguished guests.
'
The following invitation was iBsued:-

Bro. G111TMAN's summons came a. few months after the close of the Grand
Lodge, and he pa~sed to eternal rest.
Bro. PERKINS commends the good work of California. in her efforts to establish
a Home for the Ma.sonic wards of our jurisdiction. He ha.a good words for the
appropriation for charity ma.~e by the Grand Lodge, and its disbur~ement, in addition to their own charity fund, by the almoners, the Boards of Relief.
The work of the Grnnd Lecturer attracts his attention, and he eavs :Evidently the Grand Lecturer system is a pronounced success in the land of
the· Golden State.
Bro. PERKINS compliments the report of Bro. ANDERSON, and regrets his retirement from the role of correspondent.
Under Kentucky, ~e think we have found the reason for Vermont.'s relaxation
of the physical perfection rnle. Bro. PERKINS says :-

The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Society of Free and
Accepted Ma.sons for the State of Vermont courteously solicits the pleasure of
your presence at the Cent•nnial Communication to be held a.t Burlington commencmf( June 13, A. D. ·1894, A. L. 5894, continuing two days.
'
Dunng the hours of re~reshment the Grand Master will 0be found in parlor No.
5, Van N!'ss House, to which the brethren are cordially invited.
Fraternally yours,
.JOHN HARRIS WHIPPLE, Grand Master.
Responses were received from eminent brethren, who were unable tu attend
from nearly every jurisdiction in the nation.
'
The Centennial Address was a very able paper-a. historical account of the'
eata.blishment of the first Lodge, in 1781, to thP. centennial anniversary of the
Grand Lodge in 1894, and is a credit to its distinguished author, the R. ·. W. '.
Kl'l'TREDGE HASKINS, l).,puty Grand Master.
·
The centennial poem, by Rev. Bro. ALFRED J. HOUGH, is a bright and sparkling production, filled with local Masonic hits.
The banquet was presided over by Past Grand Master ALFRED A . HALL, and
from the first toast, " Vermont," .responded to by Governor and Broo. FULLER to
''The !'a.dies;'' hy the~.·. W. ·.WINFIELD ScoTTMAY, Grand Junior Warden, ~a.a
a. succession of eloquent, fraternal interchange of good things. The ceremonies
wer~ closed with a response to "The Future of Masonry in Vermont," by the
Junior Past Grand Master, Bro. D&LOS M. BACON.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by Past Grand Master MARSH O
P&RKINB, Chairman. A masterly paper, and worthy of the centennial volume of
which it forms a. part. From what we have read of Bro. P1rnKINS' writing.•we
should "guess" that the principal tenets of his profes•ion, as Chairman of Correspondenc6: were ~ermont, Vermont Masonry and the American Flag, and they
are good articles of faith, too.
.
The review of California is very full, and shows a close examination of the
doings of the session. Bro. PERKINS is interested in the reports of Bro. B&LCHIIB,
especially in regard to the right of the Master, who formerly as Junior Warden
prefer~d', in accordance with his duty as Junior Warden, the ·charges upon which
the tnal waa held.
~definition of the law o~ California. in regard to the rights and duties of non·
a.ffiha.tes and the discassion with the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania. in regard to
the Grand Representative system, whom they represent, and why were they
· created.

Grand Lodge of O<ilif.ornia.

1895.]

[0.:t. 9,

'

In a Lodge in Kentucky a.n intellectual cripple, "with short fingers," desired
to become a. Mason ; when· th~ ouestion of his "imperfect!ons" were ~a.ised his
endor 0·ere certifieJ that they thought he would be able to give all the grips and to
do a.a much work as any one, and they added :"" a. clincher : " He plays ball first
rate." Of course he got in, but Vermont don t mean to let Kentucky get all of
them.
M.·. W.·. JOHN H. WHIPPLE was re-elected Grand Master; B.·. W.'. WARREN
G. REYNOLDS was re-elected Grand Secretary. Corre•pondent, M. '. W. '. MARSH

0 . PERKINS.
VICTORIA.

The United Grand Lodge of Victoria held a Quarterly Commonication in the city
of Melbourne December 17th, 1894,-the M.·. W.'. Sir W. J. CLARKE, Grand Master,
the V.·.
JoHN BKAIM, Grand Secretary. Sixty Lodges were represented, and
there was a large attendance of Past Grand Officers. Representatives of twentyone sister Grand Jurisdic~ions were present.
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF GENERAL PURPOSES.
The at.tent.ion of the Board was called to the Lodge having initiated a candidate
from another Territory, without having first commonicated with each Lodge; and
the w. M. being notified to that eftect, he forwarded the replies to inqoiries
00

w.·.

made by him :A question was asked as to whether the son of a Mason, aoder the age of tweotyone, could be initiated without dispensation. The Board decided that Role 164
applied.
The ruling of the Board having been request~d on the point as to whether a
brother who had not received bis Grand Lodge certificate, and was afterwards punished for an oft'ense against the laws could, on applying for it, receive It, o~ should
it be withheld: it decided that the brother having been initiated under another Constitution it had no jurisdiotion.
A complaint was made by the seconder of a candidate against!' Lodge, th~ W•. M.
nf which had postponed the ballot in consequence of a con6dent1al c.omrnomcat1on,
with the re•ult that the candidate was bli.ck-balled. The Board considered that the
W. M. of the Lodge .. cted irregularly in not permitting the ballot to be taken on the
night sncceediog the proposition, in accoruance '!ith Rule 162; bot the fact of the
candidate having been black·_balled, could not be ignored.

200

Procmlings of the

fOct. 9,

The warrant of a Lodge having been removed from one district
to another, claims
bad been made against the members resident in the locality
inEwhicb the Lodge w1111
first opened, for arrears of dues, which it wa• contend
ed
were
not
to be collecte d.
A complai nt Wl\8 submitte d on these grounds, and referred
to the Lodge in questiou
whose reply was deemed eatislactory.
'
A r~port from Bro. G. D. FRBWIN wRs received , stating that
be had, under dispensatio n from the M. ·• W. •.Grand Master, duly constitu
ted
the
.4lpine
Lodge
at
Woods' Pomt, on the 18th of October .
The Finance_ Committtle recommentled that the sum of
five hundred pounds
should be deposited In two of the banks, on deposit for
twelve months, which was
approve d by the Board.
· MiBB Rc:LB, a beneficiary under the Board of Benevolence,
who recently died
occnpie d a cottage on land at Maidsto ne, which
reverts to Grand Lodge. oo:
of the membMs of the Board io11pected the landnow
become valuable, being close t-0 the Ballarat Road.in question and considers it may
'
. The consideration of Lodges .in arrears of does w.as postpon
ed until the meeting
m Jannary , when the matter will be C!lrefully
gone into, and the necessar y action
taken.
The advice of the Board wns sought under circums tances of
a Lodge Pnmmoning
a meeting to install th~ W. M., and postpon ing
the ceremony, by aalllng off for a.
week. The Boa.rd decid~d thBt it was incompe tent to
install a W. M. ou any other
day than the one nal!'ed m the by-laws, except by dispensa
tion.
A letter was received from a conntry f,odge, inquiring
whether it could bold a.
mee~lng on!le every three months, at a place
five miles distant, where a. large proportion of. its member~ resided. Tbe Boa.rd rccomme
11ded tbe Lodge to apply to
1~:.M.·. W.·. Grand Master for bis permissi
on toa tempora ry removal, under Role

1895.]

0

Tbe remaind er of the session was devoted to the consideration
of financial mat.
ters, receipts , disburse ments and the "Fund of Benevol ence."
VIRGIN I.a.
The Grand Lodge of Virginia held its one hundred and
seventee nth Annual
Commu nication in the city of Richmo nd. Decemb er 4, 1894,-the M.·. W. •• MANN
PAGE, Grand Muter, the R.·. w. .. W. B. IiiAAOS, JR., Deputy
Grand Secretar y.
One hundred and two Lodges represen ted.
There were four Pa.st Grand Masters present, with the Represe
ntatives of sixteen sister Grand J urisdicti ous.
·
The Grand Lodg~ was opened in Ample Form.
The Grand Master delivere d hie Annual Address , with
devout thanks to
Almigh ty God for His preserva tion in the paat, and invoking
bis guidanc e and
· bleBBing on their delibera tions.
Before reportin g hie official acts he referred to a visit from
the Grim MeBBenger
of Dea.th, who bad summon ed from their councils their beloved
eminent brother
Pa.st Grand Master FRANOIS HENRY HILL, paying a tribute
of affectionate regard
to the memory of that faithful brother.
The Grand Master, in sorrow, reported the illneBB of their
beloved Grand Sec.
retary, WH. B. IsAAOa, who for more than }\a.If a. century
bas been a faithful
sentinel on the watch towers of the Grand Lodge of Virginia
.. The Grand Master
says of that illustrio us brother :The Grand Lodge was called upon to experien ce a. far greater
misfortu ne whe~
in June last, our ~loved and .venerated Grand Secretar
y, R. ·. W. ·. WILLIAM B'.
ISAACS,. was, by sickness, depnved of that physical strength
of his office which: he h~d .s~ long and so ~bly discharged.. to perform the duties
been to Ma.aonry m Vmuma , and to this Grand Lodge What Bro. IsA·Aos has
repeated!)'. stated t? you ?Y my {>rerlecessors. 'fhey a.lone in particul ar, has been
been deprived of his effimeucy as Grand Secretar y, and know what it is to have
counsel and a.dvici> as
a most expert and experien ced Ma.son. I directed thehis
Deputy Grand Secretar y
not~ enco?i:age ~im .to perform the duties of his
office
except
when, hy the advice·
of his physicia n, .it might be deemed prudent , and tben
only to submit to him
matters of great importa nce.

!

Grand Lodge of California.

201

•

fu matters of detail perta.inlng to the Grand Secretar y's office, I have
a.jthorized Bro. WILLIAM B. ISAACS, JR., to di8charge the ~a.me,
and odI have a. "'.~VB
f
d him rom t and courteous. It is a. matter for this Grand
L
geto
consi
er
;h~t com Pnsatlon should be allowed the Deputy
Secretar y? and what
provisions~bould be ma.de for the futur& wi_th reg~rd toGral!d
this office, the im~o~ancd
of which is grea.tlv enhance d by the continue d iii-healt
h of our. belote
·d-n
8ecreta.rv, who, in my opinion, s~ould be _relieved of the
necessity o prov1 mg
out of his own salary for the services of this office.
The ·G rand Master is decided ly liberal in his interpre
tation of the ~ule . of
physical qua.lifications, u witneBB the following decisio?a,
which were ~118tamed by
the Grand Lodge: ' That a candida te with one perfect eye i~ physical ly qualified
to be ma.de a.

MTh~t a. candid.a te who baa Jost a. portion of b~s th.umb,
conform to a.II the req•Jirementll, without a.rtilicia.1 aid or b~t who ca!l litera.lly
friendly &BBiata.nce, is
eligible.
The secol'.ld day of the seBBion the Grand Lodge was occupied
in the exemplification of the Second and Third Degrees .
.
Virginia. is districte d for purpose s of inspecti on, instruct
ion m th~ w~rk .and
purpoalls of •iisitat.ion. The juriodio tion is dividtid into
fifty M~onic d1str1c~,
with a. District Deputy Grand Master for each. 'fhe Gr~nd
Lodge bears upon its
roll 252 active Lodges, with a membeF1lhip of 12,479 a.ffihated
Maste~ Ma.sons.
Great interest is taken in the progress and support of the
Ma.some Home. Th_e
underta king is now being bor11e a.long upon the " full tide
of s~ccesdul experiment." A fine building has been erected and the orphans
are bemg ca.red for by
the Ma.sons of Virginia .
There ii! no Report on Corresp ondence from Virginia . The
M. •• W. •• J · P. FITZ·
GERALD was elected Grand Master; the ~.·. W.·. WILLIAM B.
ISAACS, was re-electe d
Grand Secretar y. Bro.,WH . B. ISAACS, .TR., was appointe
d Deputy Grand Sec·
reta.ry.
d
Chairma n of .Correspondence, M. •• W. •• WM. F. DRINKARD, R' b
ic mon ·
WASH INGTO N.
The Grand Lodge of Washing ton held its thirty-ei ghth Annual
Commu nicalion
in the city or Olympia , June 11th, 1895,-t he M.·. w... JOSEPH
M.ABION TAYl..~R,
Grand Master;· the M.·. W.'. THOMAS M1i..BURNE REED,
Grand Secretar
p~8t Grand Masters were present at roll-call, with the MasteF1l, Warden y. Nme
s or Representativ es of ninety-o ne chartere d Lodges.
.
The Grand Lodge was opened on the third degree of Masonry .
, w1th prayer by tbe
Grand Chaplain.
.
An addresM of welcome, on oohs.If (Jf the Masonic Fraterni
ty and the mty. of
Olympia, was delivered by !rl.·. W.'. NATHANS. PoRT&B, Past
Grand Master, which
was re•pond ed to on ·behalf of the Grand Lodge by the
Grand Ora.tor, R.·. W.·.
W1i..L1AM H. UPTON.
.
The M.·. w.·. JOSEPH MARION TAYC.OR. Grand Master, whose
portrait:grace• tlns
volume of proceedings, then delivere d his Annual A.ddre.s.
.
The Grand Master recited the history of tbe llrand Lodge;
observed its progress
and successful building up , and on beha.lr of the Freemas ons
of Washing ton retu~ed
thank• to the Suprem e Head for His care and protectio n of
their beloved orgamza.·
tion. He congratu lated the &BBembled b.r ethren that peace
and harmon y prevaile d,
and that tbe future was favorable and full of promise . Among
his official acts he
reported the placing of the corner-s tone of the Univers ity of
Wa•hing ton in accordance with our time-hon ored ceremon ies.

202

Proceroings of the

[Oct. 9,

1895.l

Although the decisions reported nomber forty, th~yseem io be in accord with the
fundamental law ; many, of course, are subject to the provisions of the local regnla·
tions of the Grand Lodge or Washington.
The Wisconsin proposed umrorm rules for dispensing Masonic charity were
presented and referred.
Under the head of Necrology, 1he Grand Master made affectionate mention of
Brothers SULLIVAN E. CLOUGH, JESSE W. GEORGE andJAooB BELLINGER. whose vacant
places remiµd them "that the dust has returned to the earth as it was, and the spirit
has returned to c;od who gave it." He paid affectionate tribute t.o their useful lives,
and in spirit planted a sprig of acacia in memory or their virtues.
'rhe Grand Master also read from the death roll of the year the name of STEPHEN
FOWLER CHADWICK of Oregon, and paid an eloquent and affectionate trihute to the
memory of that illustrious Mason, voicing the fraternal esteem in which that distinguished brother was heJtl. by the Fraternity of Washington.
Bro. WILLIAM H. UPTON , Grand Orator, delivered an able address upon "Some
Phases of Freemasonry," which was enthusiastically received and ordered published
with the proceedings of the session.
The Grand Lodge was permanently located at Seattle.
The petition for a dispensation to confer the degrees upon one R. W. !:laAw in
lees than the constitutional time, was, upon the recommendation of the Committee
on Jurisprudence, emphatically denied.
The decisions or the Grand Master, made during the recess . were generally concurred In.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported as follows upon the Mississippi resolutions , referring t.o the proposed uniform roles as to jurisdiction over candidates:Your Committee on Jurisprudence have again had before us, by recommitment,
thr s~bject relative to the •· proposed uni_form rnles as jurisdiction over candidates ."
submitted to the several Grand Jurisdictions by the Grand Lorl.ge of Mis,issippi and
desire to report that, inasmuch as a majority of the Grand Lodges in the U~i~
Atates daring the last year have rejected said proposed uniform rules, thus defeating
the very purpose contemplated, we therefore recommend that this Grand Lodge
take no further action in the matter.
Report adopted.
Brothers WILLIAM H. UPTON. JOSEPH M. TAlLOR and THOMAS M. REED, were
appointed a committee to compile the edicts and decisions of the Grand Lodge from
its organization to date, said digest, if approved by the Grand Master, to be published
by the Grand Secretary.
The Report on Correspondence is prepared and submitted by Bro. WILLIAM H.
UPTON, Gra.nd Orak>r, who succeeds M... w... THOMAS MILBUBllE REED as chairman
of that committee, and although following in hie duties his very eminent predecessor,
Bro. UPTON has the full confidence of hie brethren in his skill and ability to perform,
with credit t.o himself and the Fraternity of Washington, any part of the work .
assigned him, however difficult it may be. 1.'he reputation of Bro. UPTON will not
suffer in the e~timation of his on-correspondents, from the specimens of his skill
sent out for inspection.
Under Ce.lifornia, after an affectionate mention or hie native State and the days
of '49, before the railroad ere., Bro. UPTON refers t.o the Address of Grand Master
ORME ; notices the death of oar two Grand Masters, STEVENSON and GRITMAN: and
comments upon the reports of our Committee on Juri•prudence upon the various
matters submitted for their consideration in his review of their work. Bro. UPTON
compliments the committee for the ability and learning with which its reports he.ve
been ple.oed before the Fraternity. Ale.e I the Grand Lodge of California mourns
t.o-day the distinguished e.uthor and Chairman or Jurisprudence, who, for more than

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

203

thirty years, has given, without stint, bis knowledge and ability to its service. We
left California for Boston, August 19th, ta.king with us· from Bro. BELCHBR messages
for friends and brethren whom he bad hoped to meet at the last session of the Grand
Encampment. Upon our return, September 14th, we were shocked to learn that
about the first of September "God's finger touched him and he slept."
The lose to the Chand Lodge of Cdi(ornia can hardly be estimated. Those who
cao best judge of its import are the brethren who have served with him on com·
mitte es during the many years of his service. They know the worth of WILLiill
O. BELCHER, hie unselfish devotion and love for Freemasonry, hie re•pect for and
nnylelding obedience to constituted authority, and bis love and veneration for the
Grand Lodge which, in making him its executive bead, honored itself and wrote its
name with hie able guidance high upon the roll of American Grand Lodges.
Bro. UPTON notices the report in re WILLIAM NICHOLS, the English Lodge
which initiatt>d him and Olay Lodge of our jurisdiction. He says of the report on
permission to use funds for social purpose~:-

l

The committee made a most stubborn Hirht against a very mild resolution which
" permits" Lodges to use FIVE PER CENT. nr the amoon.t they receive for ~uee. "for
•Ocial porpoeee, and for the encouragement and promot10n of fraternal reehng amonir
the brethr~n." Think of it, brethren, Freemason• compelled to beg for years for
permission to nee a little of their n•on money for Masoni~ purpose•! We are tha'!kful the report was rejected, and we congratnlate our Cahforma brethren on obtamlnfC at lad, as a favor, a small part r,f what was their• as_ a !'latter of ri~ht. This
part or the committee's report somewhat •bocked oar adm1rat10n for their scholar·
ship; for, in citing the provi•ion of the Regiue MS. that the brethren ehall pay for
refreshments-in support of their claim that.they shall not, they style that MS "the·
el\rliest written Constitutions-those reported to have been adopted by the General
A•eembly at York in 926." and profee• to quote from it "as translated from the
original manuscript by Dr. 01.1vEB ! _" As an intr?duc~io_n to an nn-ca_lled-for sneer
at those Ma!!ons who do not appreciate the "Cahforo1a 1dea" of askmg somebody
to" Plea•e give me back the a.mount I have expended in relieving a. worthy , distressed brothAr ," the committee •aye:"It may be that [,ndiree in •nme countries are allowed, as the Grand Master suggests to expend a. certain amount or their fund•, at stated times, for refreshments."
" May be?" "In some countries?" " Allowed!'' " A certain amount?'' '' At
stated times?" What are the distinguished brethren giving us?
We think the strictures of Bro. UPTON upon the committees too severe, and yet
believe the tendency exists to restrict th e privileges or subordinate Lodges beyond
a reasonable limit, the Gre.nd Lodges assuming the management or all its business
interesh, oontrary to the ancient customs and rules of the Fraternity.
The M.·. W.·. WILLIAM WALLACE WITHERSPOON was elected Grand Master; the
R .·. w.· ..THOMAS MILBURNE REED was 1e-elected Grand Secretary: Correspondence,
THOMAS MILBURNE REED, Cbairman, Olympie..
The next Annual Communication will be held at Beattle June 9, 1896.
WEST VIRGINIA.
The Grand Lodge or West Virginia held eleven Special Oommnriicatione daring
the year for the constitution of Lodges and the placing_of corner-Rtones. 'l'be cere·
monies were performed in accordance with the ancient rules and customs or the
Fraternity.
The thirteenth Annual Communication was held in the city of Wbeelin11; N ovemher 13 1894,-the M.·. w.·. A. M. EVANS, Grand Master, the R.·. w.·. G&OBGE w.
ATKINSON, Grand Secretary. Ninety-eight. Lodges were represented. Eight Past
Grand Masters were present, with the representatives or twenty-seven sister Grand
Jurisdictions. Past fJre.nd Master KEPHART D. WALKlliR, Californie.'s representative,
was present among the number.

204

Prof'eedin1s of the

[Oct. 9,

1895.]

Tbe Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, witb prayer by the Grand Chap·
lain.
The Gr~nd Master delivered his Annual Address, first greeting the assembletl
brethren w~th c. hearty welcome and invoking the blea•ing of God upon the labors
of the session: . F'onr di•peneatione for the formation of new Lodges were issued.
Under Dec101on•, the Grand Master save:..All thedquestions asked had :i>een decided by former Grand M••tere in their dec~et~n•, ~oh I aoowered by referrmg them to the book of Masonic law of West Vir·
gm a, wit the exception of one, viz:Question. Li a candidate with only one good eye eligible ·to the mysteries of
Freemasonry?
Answer. Ye•._ Whilst I do not deoire to relax any of the re oiremeots of a
c:od/3"te, bl do thmk thi<t a man who can conform to all the Ritu~ls of the Order
s ou not e debarred, becaose of the physical defect of one eye.
The "perfert youth theory " seems a dim shadow of the past.
. 'fhe Gra od Master condemns strongly the use of the " cypher eystelll," in any of
its rr..aoy forms, as a dangeroos Innovation.
The focal L~dgea gave a baoqoet to the Grand Lodge on the evening of the· first
day of the session, which is described as a feast of "eloquence and wit," and was·
grel\t)y enjoyed by all.
. The Grand Lodge of West Virginia has upon its roll one hundred and two Lodges,
with a member8'iip of five thousand Master Masone.
A portrait of Grand Master G11oao11 W. FEioT prefaces this volume. We also
oolice a portrait and biographloal sketch of Past Grand Lecturer WM. S. SU.Hllll.RBB,
a~d one of deceased Past Grand Master WM. J. BATES, M . D. The notice close•
with these word•.: "When Dr. BATES went down a tall cadar fell; Masonry Jost 000
of Its &troogest pillars, and the community ao exemplary, able, manly mao."
The Report on Correspoudeuoe is again presented by the R.'. W.'. Guod Secre·
tary, who gives a thorough and complete review of the American and many
Europ~an Grand Lodges. Be says he really enjoya. the work, and from the apparent
ease with which he runs it off. we accept the statement.
Bro. ATKINSON gives a full report of the doings of "the congress" held ilt
Chicago Aognet 14 to 17, 1898, with hie coniments thereon:
.Uod~r Oalifornia Ile notes the illness or our Grand Master OHAs. R. GRITllllAN,
wbi_ch prevented hb joining in the labors of the see•ion, and which proved his fast,
for ID a few months thereafter be joined the silent majority.
Bro. ATKINSON .c·ongratnlates us on our progress in the matter of a Masonic
~ome, men.ti on• the liberality with which the Grand Lodge smoutbes the pathway of
its old and mflrm Pa<t Grand Ma~ters BTllV.RNBON and TuTT, term• our position in
rerereoce to non-atlll1ated MMone, their et11tos, rights and duties as "solid a d
tenable." and eulogizes oor Boards or Relief for their generous acts' in the diebur:e.
ment of the fund• placed at their disposal.
Bro. ANn•:as~N's Report on Correspondence i• pronounced a very able one. The
Grand Lectnre1 • repo.rt, he says, shows two things very clearly, first, that he 18 a
competent and energetic omcer, and second, that the secret work is being car~fnlly
and succe••fully taught.
Under G eorgia, Bro. ATKIN'SON quotes that beautiful creation of the late Grilnd
Master DAVIDSON of Georgia, who, in one of his Addr~eeee to the Grand Lodge,
gave utterance to a rew sentences which will remain with hie beloved brethren as
long as our language Rh~il last. The efoqneut application ot' the "painted cask
upon the water,," to toe teachi11ge or Masonry and their etreot upon the wi•rfd Is
a masterly illu•tration of the force and power of truth-" magum est veritas et • 6 •
val/Jit." That our brethren or California may have it at hand •· we wfll bu;'°y it
here:"-

r

l

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

205

Io the 8trait of Magellan ther~ la said tu be a postomoe, the most remarkable of
any in the world. It is simply a painted ca~k chained by strong cables to the rocks,
so that it floata upon the waves, rising and falling with the waters or the restless
and everlasting sea. No appointed oustodiau cout1·or. it. It has no boors fixed by
law or usage for receiving or depositing its mail. No officer places on its contents
the official etamo of government; no carrier passes to and fro laden with the burdens of joy or ao"rrow which are borne daily through this great land of on·r s. No
rushing trains, speeding like the wind, bear to 1t or take from it the messagee'lt
contains._ And yet without control, without supervision, free to •train its chains in
st?rme o~ to float idly upon. the emootbe~ billows of a. placid ocean, it has never
failed of its object. The navies of the entire world are its guardian•. The see.far·
ing men, ntten rude e.od reckless, treat it with the teodernes. of a woman. As each
ship passes by, the speed is sfacltened, the boat is lowered, and, mnnned by rugged
men, is driven to its station. Strong hands quickly seek its contents, and. taking
what may belong to them , deposit those they themselves would send to distant le.ode
for the loved ones who with anxious duys look for some message from the ab•eot.
And bearing their own sweet remembrance, left there, perhaps by some companion
ship, back to thPir qoerter•, they. bless with more than sailor fervor this strange depository. To detend it, 1.bey would quickly risk limb or lire; to protect it give all
the strength atid dariug they possess, and yet it is only a floe.ting cask in a waste of
waters.
Do yon see any parallel between the lesson of this cask thus situated, thos pro·
tected and thus serving mankind, and the in•titution to which you belong? Let u•
pause and consider. What is Freemasonrv? Simply an inetrnmeot for the good of
others. How is it. held to the human race? Only by the atroog chaiod of brotherly
love. Wh•t does it bear within its keeping! Nothing bot_the message which tell~
of man's J>lans and purpose•, hopes and ambitions to be better and trner and nobler
in all things here that be may enjoy a higher and more sublime association here·
after. Nothing exceP.t the mural lessons of the every day existence, which, made
up of success and fe.Il~re, teach him of a love which makes him etronp:er when be
fails Rod humbler when be Hncceeds. Bow is the institution protected? By every
member who with the solemn obligation engraven on hie soul anCI its whispered
word" of counsel fingering in his ear, remembers its blessings and it• objects. Who
guards it from destruction! The· m!llions of brave hearts whose beating1 can bu
bee.rd in every land npon which the sun•hine rest.a, and" ho have taken from its store
of treasures the many messages which cheer in gloom, aud give increased bright· •
neee to happy hours. What i• the value of Masonry? It bBS no well Hlled roftere,
it bas oo mines of exhaustlese wealth, it hos no •plendid accumulation of worldly
posseseione. It bas nothing but a mission-a mi1111ioo that 'teaches mankind the le"·
wn or obedience to law, of aubmission to authority, of compR•Bion for the fallen, of
tenderness for the erring, of devotion to good, of love for God, and at last that
there is "a brighter light no darkness can resist." It is bot a floe.ting cask, save
that its cha.ins permit Us journeyings everywhere that sorrow needs a tear or
humanity a friend.
Bro. ATKINSON, under Iowa, qnotes Bro..PARVIN. He says:Grand Secretary PARVIN's report is ns complete and exhaustive as the Grand
Maeier'e Address. Ourldietinguished brother took bi• grip in hand and traveled over
a large stretch of country during the summer. Be went westward to the Pacitlc
Ocean, and couo•eled with many of the learned brethren on Masonic enbjeots. We
quote one pare.graph:
"One of the questions to which we sought replies lo our circular letter was,
whether the Lodge called from labQr to refreshment in order that the brethren
migitt become acquainted with the visiting brethren when such are present. So
Jar as onr visits extended this courtesy wRe, we may say, nnivereally practiced, as
it should be In all Lodges witll visiting brethren, that they might feel that they were
not strangers among strange brethren, but at home, e.s every Lodge ehonld be to
visiting Masone. lt would be invidiou• to select names from nmong the many who
were eo·courteoue to us, yot we c.e.nnot fdil to name one·-the Grand MHter of Calf.
fornia, our old-time friend, Dr. H. S. 0RlH,-who in season and out of season me.de
It hie business to lend his aid as far as possible to contribute to the pleasure of onr
visit and our a•sociation with hie brethren."

M.'. W.·. GEORGE W. FJCIDT wee elected Grand Master; R.·. W.', GKORGB W,
ATKINSON was elected Grand Secretary ; address Wheeling.

206

Proceedings of the

1895.J

[Oct. 9,

WISCONSIN.
. The G~aod Lodgo of Wisoooslo held its fiftieth Annual Communication in the
mty of Milwaukee June 12, 1894,-M.'. W.'. W1LLLU1 C. Sw.a.IN Grand MB8ter
R.'. W.·. JoHN W. LAFLIN, Grand Secretary. Two hundred and tw~oty-oioe Lodge~
';ere represented. Eight Past Grand Masters answered roll-call. Twenty-eight
sister Grand Jurisdictions were represented.
California h88 the honor of being represented by the M.'. W. •. Grand Master
WILLIAM C. SwAIN.
~ro. JACOB HABT NBFI' represents Wisconsin near the Grand Lodge of Ualiforma.
. Wisconsin numbers two hnndred and sixty-two chartered Lodges, with a membership of 16,605 Master Masons.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample~ Form.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address, reminding the brethren that
fi~y yea.rs ago seven members of three small Lodges, two holding charters from
M'.ssour1. and one from Illinois, met at Madison and organized the Grand Lodge of
~1sconsm . These seven delegates represented seventy-nine Masons. And he conti?nes: "T~-day I greet the representatives of two hundred and thirty Lodges,
with a constituency of over fifteen thousand Master Masons. The little rivulet has
swollen into a mighty river."
After indulging in a retrospective view of the progress of the jorisdidioo he
'
paused to pay a deserved tribute to "the honored dead.•"
Past Grand Master R. _DELOS PULFORD, Past Junior Grand Master C. LOFTUS
MARTIN, Past Grand Treasurer LEONARD UoATES, head the procession called to swell
the ran~s of t~e unnumbered dead. Faithful in the Master's work they have gone
to receive their reward . The Grand M88ter paid deserved and eloquent tribute to
the memories oftbeillustrions fraters, WILLIAM P. INNES, THO.lllAS MCFADYEN PATTON
CONNOR. To the past go more dead faces every year.
and ~EOBGE
D1spensat1ons for the formation of five new Lodges were granted.
The Gr~nd Master reported bis sympathy with the proposition of Colorado to
c~lebrate 10 some proper manner the centennial anniversary of the death of illns.
tr1ous Bro. GxoBGE WASHINGTON OD December u, 1899.
The Grand Master made many decisions, only important 11s to their soundness
under the local law of Wisconsin.
The Grand Master attended the Masonic Congress and seems to entertain doubts
of the general usefulness of that self-constituted Supreme Court.
The ?'•and Mast~r says, notwithstanding the year just closed has been dark and
~loomy m the financ1al world, we have llonriebed beyond our most sanguine expectat10os.
Congratulatory mes•age~ were received from Grand M88ter WHIPPLE, of Vermont, Bro. EHLERS , Grand Secretary of New York, Bro . J. L. PowER, Grand Secretary of Missis~ipp~, and the veteran Bro. THBODOBE B. p ARVIN, of Iowa, upon the
succ~esful ter1n;m~t100 of t~e first half hundred year• of the Grand Lodge of Wis"
oooern, and returmng tbanb tor the kind invitation to join in the exercises of the
occasion.
The Grand Lodge was called oft' in order that the representatives may have an
opportunity ~o acc_ept of the hospitalities tendered them by the Milwaukee Lodges.
The cons1derat1on of the Washington memorial and the invitation of the Grand
Lodge of Oolor~o was postponed until the next Annual Communication.
The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary was held 10· the hall of Kilb,1uM&e
Lodge, No. 3, In the city of Milwaukee, where an interesting programme of music
and speeches interested the brethren and their ladles.

?·

r

Grand Lodge of California.

207

Fine portraits are published of tbP. Grand Masters who have presided over the
Wisconsin "sons of light" from and including the years 1846-7-8, when Bro. A. D.
8.111ITH was at the helm of the new ship. Worshipful Brothers HENRY L. PALllBR,
BENJAMIN I. KAVANAUGH, 0. F. G. COLLINS, E. E. CHAPIN, OLIVER LIBBEY and
WILLIAM C. SWAIN and their associates, in directing the Masonic policy of Wisconsin
for the fifty years of existence, may well be proud of their work. ldeo come and
men go, bot the Grand Lodge lives on.
Bro. DUNCAN McGBBGOR presented the Report on Correepondeooe. He reviews
the proceedings of fifty-one Grnod Bodies and gives an abbreviated statement of the ·
doings of each.
Bro. McGREGOR is complimentary to California in his notice of our legislation
and business O(lerations, He commends the appropriations for charity and its dispensation by the several Boards of Relief, He also commends the efforts to establish a home for the widows and orphans of the Fraternity. He compliments Bro.
ARDEBBON on hie exoellent Heport on Correspondence, and thinks It might be read
in Grand Lodge witb credit t<> the author and decided benefit to the Grand ,Lodge.
We note that Bro. MoGBEGOB bas no love for the cypher business-thinks it risky
business. We add, yes, and unnecessary.
lo his travels through this Masonic paradise from Maine to British Colombia, Bro.
MoGBEGOB seems to have found nothing to" stir him np" or make him afraid; no
barning questions to make him thirsty or cases of contempt to arouse hie indignation . The peace that passetb understanding is upon him, and his response to the
watchman'• "What of the night?" is well, "all is well.''
The Grand Lodge of Wisconsin held its fifty-first Annual Communication in
the city of Milwaukee, June 11, 1895,-M. '. W . ·. HIRAM W. SAWYBR, Grand
Master, the R. '. W. ·. JOHN W. LAnrN, Grand 8ecretary. Two hundred and
twenty-four Lodges were represented, and there were present nine Past Grand
Mastera an:! the Grand Representatives of thirty-two siater jurisdictions.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample F orm.
Grand Master SAWYER delivered his Annual Address. He welcomed the
brethren in attendance at the first session of the second centennial, and for them
gave thanks to the Supreme Ruler for past care and protection, invoking His
bles•ing upon their future labors.
The Grand M88ter reported the death of eminent brethren, among others Past
Deputy Grand Master MERRICK D. WIYG, a devoted Maso~ and prominent
"member of the Grand Lodge. He also read from the death roll of the year the
names of many eminent and illustrious Masone, the venerable brethren, ROBERT
MAOOY and RrnHARD VAUX, among the number. 'Tis true we shall see them no
more unearth, but "there is no death ; what seems so ia transition ; this life of
mortal breath is but a •uburb of the life elysian, whose portal we call death."
The Grand Master spoke feelingly aild eloquently upon the subject of M88onic
charity and the duties of Lodges iu granting relief.
The Grand Master had granted three dispensations for the formation of new
Lodges. He reported his official acts, a large correspondence and the asking of
many unnecessary questions, which we think a compliment to the M88ons of Wiecon~in, aud proves thtim a live working jurisdiction-dead men ask no questions.
Wisconsin h88 enrolled 265 Lodges, with a membership of 16,000 Master
·
M88ons.
The receipts for the year were .... ..... . . . . . . . ... .. . . .. • ...... . . , ... $15,326 01
The expenditures for the year were ...• ' " · · · . . .. . • . . . . ... ... . .. ,. . . . 9,815 66
The assets of Gr1Wd Lodge 11re ......... . . . . ........... . .............. $12,910 Zl

208

[Oct. 9,

Proc~edirigs of the

The Report on Correspondence is by Bro. DONCAN McGREGOR-a tb~rough
report of the doings of the fifty-two Grand bodies.
The legislation of California is noticed, and our action commended. The
reports of Bro. WM. C. BELCHER, the veteran Chairman of our Committee 011
Jurisprudence, is co~plimented. In his conclusion Bro. McGREGOR says. a.
remarkable degree of harmony exists among the Craft, aml everywhere peace, with
her benign influence, has blessed the Fraternity. No new movement has. engaged
our attention, and no new legislation attempted. He says probably the most im. portant question under discussion is the relative merits of Home• and individual
Lodges as means for dispensing needed charity. Bro. McGREGOR thinks the question will be settled on its merits in the various jurisdictions rather than by the
adoption of 'a uniform plan, which we think the mo~t desirable disposition of the
matter.
JOBNW. LAFLIN
M.·. w.·. W.W. PERRY was elected Grand Master; R.·.
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Cotrespondent, Past Grand Master GABRIEL BoucK, Oshkosh.

w.·.

WYOMING.

The Grand Lodge of Wyoming held its twentieth Annual Communication in
Newcastle, September 11, 1894,-M.·. W.·. ED. F. STAHL, Grand Master, R.·. W.·.
WM. L. Kx1 KENDALL, Grand Secretary. Eleven chartered L~dges were represented. Grand Representatives were present of South Dakota. Nevada, South
Australia and Illinois.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by .the Grand
.
Chaplain.
The Grand Master delivered hi~ ,\.nnual Address, in which, after welcoming
the brethren, he congratulated them on the prosperous condition of their affairs
and increase in membership, with peace· and harmony existing everywhere. He
reported bis official acts, and under the head of "Obituary" announced the death
of several beloved fraters, in whose "taking off" the Fraternity and the State
have suffered an irreparable loss. His decisions were few and not of general
importance. He does not approvti of the Mississippi proposition of uniform rules
as to jurisdiction over candidates.
The Grand Lodge, upon motion of the Grand Secretary, abolished the repre·
~entative system ~o far as it applies to the jurisdiction of Wyoming.
The Grand Lodge of New Zealand was recognized and fraternal relations invited.
The election of officers being in order, on motion of Bro. T. L. MoKEE, amended
by Bro. THOMAS H. MooRE, the Grand Master was requested and authorized to cast
the unanimous ballot of the Grand Lodge for Bro. W. L. KUYKENDALL for Grand
Secretary, which being done, he was declared duly elected.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by the Correspondent and Grand
Secretary, BTO· WILLLU[ L. KUYKENDALL. Bro. K. says that the Grand Lodge of
Wyoming, meeting some three months earlier than heretofore, will account for the
absence of several Grand Lodges who would otherwise be found " in it.'' Bro. KuY·
KENDALL writes with a. vein and vigor that leaves no room for doubting his·sincere ·
belief in that which he " has writ."
Under California, Bro. K. quotes the action in matters of jurisdiction without
dissent. Upon the right of an officer to resign there is with us no question, under
our Constitution-vacancies in office may be caused by death, " resignation'' or
removal from the jurisdiction. We notice that. Bro. K. takes delight in punching
the Worshipful brot·her known as "the Grand Representative," and that Wyoming
hu diec~ded the system.

Grand Lodge of California.

1895.]

209

We know of the merit of the representative system, proven in many instances, and
while we would not force it upon anothtir jurisdiction, would regret to see it discontinued, while many wish to retain it as a reminder of the olcl days when, a Grand
Representative, as special messenger, was the means of communicating important
business interests between sovereign Bodies. In the language of Bro. BELCHER, "the
system of appointing representatives has been adopted by the Grand Lodges of the
world, and has been recognized by all for more than a half a century; hence when it is
proposed to abolish this established system, we do not so much consider what it has
accomplished as what it might do under different conditions. Referring our M.·. W.· •
brother to the parable of the fig-tree, we would •ay to him, "give these representatives
a chance to do the work appropriate to their oftice before. abolishing the office."
The ltC.·. w.·. J. T. HOLLIDAY was elected Grand Master; the R.·. w.·. WILLIAlll
J,. KUYKENDALL was re-elected Grand Secretary.
We are pleased to note that Bro. WILLIAM L. KUYKE!IDALL was re-appointed
Correspondent. Address, Saratoga.
CONCLUSION.
"And I sit and think when the sunset's gold
Is fl.usbing river and hill and shore,
I shall one day stand by the water cold,
And list for the sound of the boatman's oar;
I shall watch for a gleam of the fl.apping sail,
I shall hear the boat as it gains the strand,
I shall pass from sight with the boatman pale,
To the better shore of the spirit land.
I shall know the loved who have gone before,
And joyfully sweet will the meeting be,
When over the river, the peaceful river,
The Angel of Death shall carry me."
Once more, brethren of the Grand Lodge of California, we have received the
solemn admonition.." Be ye .also ready I" and we are again called to "drop the sprig
of acacia" and mourn the loss of two Past Grand Masters, Brothers JOHN MILLS
BROW.NII: and WILLUM CALDWELL BELCHER.
Bro. JOHN MILLS BROWNE was our Grand Master during the years 1875to1879.
He was a magnetic, scholarly Mason, a fine presiding officer, and his administration
of Grand Lodge affairs was eminently successful. He retired from office amid the
unanimous acclaim by his brethren of faithful service rendered. Bro. BROWNE being
in Government service, was called to Washington to complete bis uninterrupted
term of forty-one years in the U. S. Navy, and, as a crowning.,honor for his faithful service, he was !j.ppointed by President CLEVELAND and re-appointed by President
HABBIBON to the head of the Medical Department, with the title of Burgeon Gen·
era!. An ab~ence of fifteen years bas made him a comparative stranger to the
younger members of the Grand Lodge, bot to the members of twenty years, and
upwards, service, there is no one held in memory's grasp whose record brings to
mind pleasanter remembrances of Masonic association.
Of Hro. WILLLU[ C. BELCHER, we can hardly realize that he has left us forever.
We find ourselves looking for him in his accustomed place, and wondering that the
veteran cl,ui.irman has no reports to deliver.
Bro. BELCHER'B service commenced in the year 1860, when he was elected Senior
Grand Warden. In the following year he. was chosen ])epnty Grand Master, but
owing to the absence of Grand Master ENGLISH in the Frazer river country, the
discharge of the Grand Master's duties devolved upon Bro. BELOHER. He was
re-elected Grand Master for the years 1862, 1868 and 1864, and since the close of his
term has been continuously in service as Chairman of the Committee on Jurispru·

14

210

Proceedings of the

"'.
~e

[Oot. 9,
GBAlfD LoDG:BS.

denoo. The Grand Lodge of C&lifornia can truly say that in the death of Bro.
BBLOHEB it loses one' who has been through all the past years its guide, counselor
and friend; his reports have attracted the attention of the Masonic world, and are
classed with. the best in our literature. WILLIAM C. BELCHER was a great lawyer,
and his love and veneration for the system of Freemasonry, with his special attachment for this Grand Lodge, made him a great Masonic jurist. There are but few in
the world who, having the ability, would give the time from their business demands
to the study, the analysis and application of the principles and groundwork of
Masonry as did our late brother.
The writer was associated for many years with Bro. BELCHER in his · committee
work, is witness of hia unselfish devotion, his firm, unyielding advocacy of the
right, and his unswerving attachment t.o the Grand Lodge at all times. May his
memory remain with us always, as the sweetness of the summer's last rose.
• Another year has passed, with its joys and sorrows, its pleasures and disappointments; the Great Reaper has been busy in striking from the rolls of the living those
for whom we had formed the most sincere attachment, and whom we shall greatly
miss as we tramp through the short time allotted to us here, but in the words of our
last service, "We can trustingly leave them in the hands of a Beneficent Being who
has done all things well." Peace to their memories.
In closing this report, we submit t.o our co-correspondents our best wishes for
their temporal and spiritual welfare with the salutation of the Monks of old, who, in
the discharge of their daily duties, met and exchanged their accustomed greeting of
memento mori.
· For the Committee.
WILLIAM A. DAVIES,
Ohairman.

~

~

:a
Alabama, •...............
Arizona, .•••.••..........
Arkaneas, ................
British Columbia, ........
California, ...••..........
Canada, ..................
Colorado, ....•.•..........
Connecticut, ....•....... .
Delawa.re, .. . .•.•..... . . ..
District of Columbia, .....
Florida, .. • ..• • . • .. .. •. ..
Georgia, .. ..... . ....... . . .
Idaho, ..••.••...•.•......
Illinois, ..................
Indiana, .......... . .... ..
Indian Territory, .........
Iowa, .....•.......•.....•
Kansas, ...........••.....
Ken~~cky, ...............
Lou1s1ana, ...............
Maine, ...•... . ..........
Manitoba, ....•...........
Maryland, ...............
Massachusetts, . . . . . . ....
Michigan, ................
Minnesota, .... .. .. . .....•
M!-ssissippi, ..... . . . . .. . . .
M1ssoun, ........ .. ..... .
Montana, . . ...•..........
Nebraska, ............ . .•
Nevada, ....·.....•.... ·...
New Brunswick, .•.......
New H~1pshire, . . .......
New Jersey, .............
New Mexico, ...•..••.....
New York, ........•...
North Carolina, ...........
North Dakota,. ........•.
Nova Scotia, .............
Ohio, .•..... • ............
Oklahoma,!. . ............ .
Oregon,.: ..... . ...... . ..
Pennsilvania, .. .. . . .. ....
P. E. eland, ......... . .. .
Quebec, .............. . ...
Rhode Island, ............
South Carolina, ...........
South ·Dakota, ... : ...•.•.
Tennessee, ............. : .
Texas, ...................
Utah,. ...........••••....
Vermont, ........•.......
Virginia, ....... ~. . . .....
Washin~n, .......... . . .
West Virginia, •..........
Wisconsin .. , . ....•.•.....
Wyoming, . .. ...•........
Total, ... · ' ..•....•.•

..,,.s

.s !

.....Ii!
0

d

~

.= r ""
.,;
i

~

..,;

;~i

~

..

.. ""...."' '8B, ~~ ..,;

.,;

~
~

o"°
~"

.sA

"'" - -"" -- "' - - - - ---cl

10,807 449 584 500
17
21
26
573
13,672 755 568 510
43
1,076
56
93
17,040 575 530 369
22,530 1,262 505 560
6,839 350 227 175
16,514 588 148 125
17
14
1,975 106
4,791 231
74
lll
4,622 348 227 197
16, 235
21
970
35
36
49,236 2,608 1,239 1,131
26,897 1,494 791 704
2,193 256 211 239
24,942 1,599 881 746
18,958 943 670 1,103
18,077 1,169 771 618
5,591 461 297 123
21,809 823 176 224
2,278 190 129 lll
35
6,621 152
38
34,700 1,649 - 286 326
36, 713 1,807 630 724
14,543 888 435 427
8,795 536 475 310
30,122 1,393 1,152 862
2,354 126 107
67
ll,846 762 617 389
19
15
913
17
56
75
1,788
38
84
358
8,744
15,245 768 237 186
30
36
43
842
86, 214 5,741 2,216 1,085
8,573 485 238 273
2,172 240
87
61
85
85
3,223 239
38,851 1,870 1,442 725
22
638
98
67
4,695 270 200 126
47,395 2,588 581 378
21
9
10
497
3,432 212
84
70
16
4,557 200 197
169
5,797 296
4,099 303 124 201
17,931 673 556 523
27,336 1,725 1,565 1,2'(.0
41
30
50
677
9,466 386 109 126
12,479
427
4,861 263 244 i46
5,180 368 148 124
15,505 920 403 399
19
51
864
17

..... ... .. .. ...

.....

.....

...... .....

r;i

"

17 36
0
1
30 19
1 ....
9
1
0
5
10 ....
1
7
1 ....
0
0
6 ....

. ...

557
21
448

*40

448
503
*126
106
"5
109
169

221
6
237
17
332
212
86
263
24
73
91

.....

*24
1
13
29
*725 686
43 21
495 403
*50
2 .•..
29
12 10
447 327
21
"749 201
22 .... "926 284
1 .... "138 100
2
213 372
l
0
61
3
14
1
38
0
40
*294
0 ....
493
*403 447
16 •...
0
202 168
6
16 13
410
94
30 49
656 449
l
0
59
22
12 ••.. *'331 ll8
*29
0 ....
22
0 ...
"52
31
2
0
107 150
l
254 256
l
*ll
3 ....
4
20
0 2,473 1,452
13 48
228 112
2
0
i5
38
2
0
43
37
28 21 1,225 585
0
0
0
3
9
102
31
7
.... *560 772
0
0
8
7
0
3
35
78
l
0
22
70
283 140
2
0
42
68
23 20
249 309
53 .... *641 526
0
3
14
33
*40 136
4 .. ..
10 14
248 186
2
106
8
47
5
9
94 . 68
6 34
152 205
l
0
8
6

....
.....

....

.... ....

- - - - - - - - - -- -- -- --765,293 39537 21029 17346 .476 335 15,905 11077

•Including euspen111ons for DOD-P&lme11' of du•a.

212

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

The foregoing report was ordered, as usual, to be printed with the
proceedings at this Communication.
Bro. CHARLES LEWIS PATTON, Trustee of the Masonic Widows' and
Orphans' Home, presented the following :The B9ard of Trustees of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Homr, in response
to the request of the Grand Lodge, submit the following supplemental report:The ~nic Widows' and Orphans' Home Tract is locatt'd in Alameda County,
on the mam county road from Oakland to San Jose, about eighteen miles south of
• Oakland and one and a half miles north of Niles, and within half a mile of Decoto
.S 'tation on the main line of the 8. P. Co. It has n frontage on this road of about
one mile. There are five trains each way between San Francisco and Decoto on
the S. P. R. R. The Haywarde Electric Road also rune from Oakland to Haywarde
(five miles from our property), and we have every reason to believe that within a
year or so this road will be extended so that it will pass our tract, which will give
us half hourly transportatioh to and from Oakland.
The property was purchased in the spring of 1893, and contains 267.46 acres of
land. It cost $33,093.00, or approximately $124 per acre, and is free from incumbrance. Of these 267 acres there are about 80 acres of line level bottom land
which is, very productive, and will bear comparison with an.y land in the neighbor'.
hood. The California Nursery Co. conducta what is said to be the largest nursery
in the world within half a mile of this property, and their soil is of the same character. The only criterion as to the value of this level land is the sale recently
made of some land of a similar character near it at $350 per acre in ten acre tracts.
The Trustees feel safe, therefore, in valuinj!' this 80 acres at $200 per acre.
There are about 117 acres of rolling hillside land which is arable and suitable
for raising vegetables, grain, or deciduou~ fruit of any description. From the beet
information the Trustees can gather this 117 11cres· Is worth about $100 per acr1:.
The remaining 70 acres are suitable for pasture, and there is considerable wood on
it suitable for firewood, and it is worth say $30 per acre.
If these figures are nearly accurate the value of the land would appPoximately
be as follows :80 acres of 9ottom land at $250 per acre ............. . ... $20,000 00
117 acres of rolling land at $100 per acre ............ .· . .. . . 11, 700 00
70 acres of pasture land at say $30 per acre .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,100 00
Or a total valuation of. .......... . ... .. . ..... ... $33,800 00
The latest transfer in this vicinity of any land of a similar character tp ours was
the sale of about 57 acres within half a mile of our ~ite for $8,500. Thie property
conta.ine about the same proportion of level and rollinll land as ours, and was
bought by Mr. MAY, who now owns 1,300 acres adjoining our tract.
We would also add as a. fact having some weight in the matter of value, that at
the time this property was purchased, it was mortgaged to the San Francisco
Savings Union for $17,000 or thereabouts. It is well known that this company
never loans more than h~lf of the estimated value of country land. Calculated on
this basis the value of the land wnR at that time about $34,000. The Trustees,
therefore, feel that the price paid was not exorbitant.
At the last meeting of the Grand Lodge the Trustees reported that there was
some doubt as to the availability of this site on account of a question existing as to
the adequacy of the water supply. There is not nor h~ the~e e,·er been any quee·

1895.J

Grand Lodge of CaJ,ifOTnia.

213

tion that by sinking wells about fifty feet deep on the level j!'l"Ound and pumping, a
supply of water adequate for any purpose could be obtained ; but it bas been the
desire to procure a water supply without .the necessity of pumping, and to that
end we employed Bro. W.R. ECKAR1', who, after a thorough examination of the
l{roun:I, reports that by purchasing two springs from Mr. JOHN QUIGLEY, who
owns the adjoining property, a supply of water amounting to at least 9,000 gallons
per day can be piped to any point of our land which we may choose for a reservoir
site.
Prof. RISING, of the State University, after analyzing the water from these
springs, reports that the water from either of them, properly protected, is undoubtedly of good quality for domestic purposes. Mr. QUIGLEY made a written offer to
us of these two springs, with sufficient land around them for every purpose, and a
perpetual right to erect, lay and maintain the necessary improvements, pipes, etc.,'
across his land, for $2,000, and the citizens of Decoto have offered to subscribe the
~.000 to purchase these rights from Mr. QUIGLEY, provided this site is adopted for
the Home.
The supply of water will be amply sufficient for from 125 to 150 persons, and·
can probably be increased by proper development of the sprinirs. Of course there
is not sufficient water for irrigation; but after a thoroul!'h investigati~n of the
au bjflct, the Tn1etees are satisfied that it is absolutely unnecessary to irrigate an
acre of this land for any ordinary purpose, and that cereals, fruit or Vllj\'etablee of
all kinds, can successfully be raised without irrigation.
There 'are now three tenants on the place, each one of whom gets sufficient
water from a spring near bis place on our property for all Jomestic purposes, and
these springs would furnish a water supply, but pumping would be necessary,
which the Trustees desire to avoid.
Respectfully submitted.
BY THI! BoABD.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The following preamble and resolution, by Pa.st Grand Master
GEORGE CLEKENT PEBKINB, was pres~nted :WHEREAS, Bro. DAVID CoNGER ABBOTT, late a member of the late Santa Clara
Lodge, No. 34, was suswnded for non.payment of dues by said Lodge on March
4th, 1871, the brother at the time being delinquent in dues to the amount of $7 ;
AND, WHEBB:AH, The charter of said Santa Ckvra Lodge, No. 34, was arrested
on February 17th, 1886, the dues of Bro. ABBOTT accruing to date of arrest of
charter being fifteen years at $6 per year, $!l0, or a total due to that date of $97 ; .
AND, WHEREAS, It is the desire of the brother to be ~einstated in the full rights
and benefit. of Masonry ; therefore, be it
Ruolved, That Bro. ABBOTT beinj!' at the present time unable to pay tha full
amount due, and he being desirous of affiliating with a Lodge within this J urisdiction, this Grand Lodge do hereby restore him to full membership and grant him
a certificate on the payment to the Grand Secretary the sum of $20.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Bro. FRANK MARION .ANGELLOTTI, from the Committee on Griev•
ances, presented the following reports~:-

214

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

To the M. •• W. •• Gramd Lodge of Calif<Yrn1i.a :-

Your committee, to whom w~s referred the transcript of the record of trial of
EDOUARD LARTHX, expelled by La PMfaite Union Lodge, No. 17, on April 5th,
1895, have had the same under consideration, and report as follows : This case was before the Grand Lodge at its last .Annual Communication, when,
for errors in the proceedings, the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded
for retrial. [Grand Lodge Proceedings, 1894, p. 728.]
The transcript now before the Grand Lodge shows a. new trial, resulting in a
judgment of expulsion. It further shows the most pa.insta.killlf effort on the part
of the subordinate Lodge to comply fully with the law governing tria.ls, and, but
for one omission, would not be open to the slightest criticism. The record fails to
show that any vote was taken by the Commissioners on the question· as to whether
or not the accused was guilty a.s charged ia the specifications, the only vote as to
guilt being on the question of unm&l!Onic conduct. It is needless to sa.y that a
verdict of guilty on the specification is absolutely essential to the validity of a.
judgment of expulsion. The transcript shows very clearly that the accused was
proven guilty, as charged in the specification, of having embezzled funds of the
benevolent society of which he was Secretary, and that he should be expelled, and
following precedents established by this Grand Lodge, your committee offer the
following tesolution and recommend it.. JMloption :Ruolved, That the judgment of La Parfam Union Lodge, No. 17, given on
April 5th, 1895, whereby EDOUARD LARTHE was expelled from all the rights and,
privileglll! of Masonry, be and the same is hereby reversed, and that tbe said
EDOUARD LARTHE be and he hereby·is, by this Grand Lodge, expelled from all the
rights and privileges of Masonry.
In the ca.l[le of Bro. DAVID ALBERT SHAW, acquitted by AzWJa Lodge, No. 305,
a. document entitled "Transcript on Appeal " has been placed in the hand• of
your Committee. There is no showing that any notice of appeal to the Grand
Lodge was ever given. Sec. 10, Art. IV, Part VI, ·constitution, provides
how and within what time an appeal may be ta.ken, and unless an appeal be ta.ken
in the manner there provided, the Grand Lodge will.not review the proceedings,
except in cases where a. judgment of expulsion or suspension has been pronounced.
Where an appeal is necessary to bring the matter before the Grand Lodge, it is
obvious that there should be a s.howing that the appeal has heen properly ta.ken.
It is possible that in this case an appeal was properly ta.ken, and that the proof
can be supplied. Your committee feel that the case shonld be continued to the
next Annual Communication, to allow the accuser to supply this proof, if it exists,
and therefore offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:Ruolved, That consideration of the case of Bro. DAVID ALBERT SHAW, acquitted
by AzWJa Lodge, No. 305, be deforred until the next Annual Communication of this
Grand Lodge.
Your committee, to whom' was referred the transcript of the record of the trial
of J08EPH DANIEL JOURDAN, of Misaion Lodge, No.169, suspended by Abell Lodge,
No. 146, within whose juriadiction he was th1m residing, on January 5th, 1895, have
had the ea.me under consideration, and report as follows:The accused has appealed from the judgment. The transcript shows no error
in the proceedings. The main charge 11oga.inst the accused was that during the year
1894, he, on divers occasions, the particular dates being unknown to the accuser,

1895.J

Grand Lodge of California.

215

consorted with women of disreputable character. The accused presented " written
answer in which he states "that during the year 1894 he was engaged in the saloon
business at Ukiah, and that certain women of the town, of bad reputation, purchased liquors from him habitually, and in the course of his regular business he was
frequently called upon to visit the house where said women resided, and frequently
met and recognized said women in other places, but he emphatica.lly denies that he
ever resorttd to said house or consorted with any woman for the purpose of prosti·
tution." The allegations of the charge are amply sustained by the testimony and
admltted by the a.newer. So far as the testimony goes, it appears, as alleged in
the answer, that the conduct of the accused, a. married man, was, to some extent,
inspired by a. desire to promote his business interests. In order to sell them liquor
and collect his money therefor, it was necessary for him to visit their hoW!08, spend
money thereat, recognize and converse with them wherever he met them, and to
generally treat them a.a friends. But it must be remembered that a Mason has no
right to subordinate Masonry to his own busineBB interests, ha.a no right to do any
act that will reflect discredit on the Order, even th,mgh it may benefit him a. little
fina.ncially. If a. Mason has not a. sufficient regarci for the Fraternity to restrain
him from the commission of act.a that must bring a. blush of shame to the faces of
his brothers, and strike a blow at the reputation of the Order, the sooner it is
known that his acts are discountenanced the better it will be for the fair name of
Masonry. That the acts of the accused were of such a character cannot admit of
question. It may seem a waste of time to state these simple truths, but some ha.ve
evidently been admitted as members who have not begun to appreciate the nature
of the obligations they have as•umed. The conduct of the accused was unmasonic,
and the fa.ct that it was, in some d~ee, prompted by busineBB reasons, makes it no
less unmasonic. .Your committee feel that the judgment of suspension should
be . affirmed, and, therefore, offer the following resolution, and recommend · its
adoption:.
Resol'Ved, That the judgment of AbeU Lodge, No. 146, given on .January 5th,
1895. whereby JOSEPH DANIEL JouBDAN, of Misaion Lodge, No. 169, was suspe~ded
from a.11 the rights and privileges of Masonry, be and the same is hereby affirmed.
In the case of STONEWALL JACKSON HOLLIDAY, expelled by AbeU Lodge, No.
146, on July 6th, 1895, together with the appeal of the accUBed from the judgment,
your committee report as follows :The accused was charged with notoriously consorting with prostitutes, and the
charge is fully sustained by the testimony. It would serve no useful purpose to
discu88 the testimony, which shows very clearly tha.t the accused was the almoRt
constant companion of a well known woman of ill-fame. In the language used by
the Committee on Grievances in its report in the case of HoR'ION, Vol. 18 Bound
Proceedings, p. 2o.5, "his associationR with her were such as to bring him into contempt and the Craft to shame. The allegations a.re fully sustained by the evidence,
and show the accused to be a person utterly lost to shame and one who should no
longer have a place in the Order."
.
No error appears to have been committed in the proceedings, and the transcript
is in exact accordance with the regulations prescribed for trials, and is worthy to
serve a.s a model.
your committee offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :Beaol'Ved, That the judgment of AbeU Lodge, No. 146, given on July ~th, 1895,
whereby STONEWALL JACKSON HOLLIDAY was expelled from all the rights and
privileges of Masonry, be and the same is hereby affirmed.

216

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

•

I
Your committ'le, to whom was referred the transcript of the record
of trial of
ALBERT LORIN GooDRlCH, expelled by Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296, on June 12th,
1894, report that the transcript and testimony now bef~re this Grand Lodge show
that the proceedings were regular; that no material error w&e committed ; that the
charge against the accused is fully sustained by the testimony, and that the judgment should beaffirmed. Your committee, therefore, offer the following resolution
and recommend its adoption :Raolvtd, That the judgment of Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296, given on June 12th,
1894, whereby ALBERT LORIN GooDRICH w&e expelled from all the rights and privileges of M&eonry, be and the same is hereby affirmed.

In the matter of the petition of JAll&B VELSIR, expelled by Pentalpha Lodge,
No. 202, on May 19th. 1890, to be restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry, your Committee report as follows :-

Due notice of the application was ltiven to PentaJ,pha Lodge, No. 202, and that
Lodge had, by more than a two-thirds vote, &eked for the granting of the petition.
The petitioner was expelled for having willfully disobeyed a summons to appear at
a meeting of the Lodge for reprimand, which punishment he bad previously been
adjudged to suffer for unmasonic condnct. The original charge against him was
that he had made an unprovoked assault upon hie wife, striking her several times,
and the circumstances surrouoding·the act were such that a public prosecution had
been instituted against him, resulting in a plea of guiltv of assault in the Superior
Court and judgment thereon. The commission having found him guilty, adjudged
· the very li~ht penalty of reprimand as the punishment. He was duly summoned
to appear for reprimand, but refused to obey the summons; declared that he would
not go into the Lodge-room again, and that they could do what they pleased in the
matter. He was vecy properly expelled for this, and his only excuse now for this
most serious offense is that he did not realize the seriousness of the matter, for
various re&eons, including family troubles.
Willful disobedience of a M&eonic summons i11 an offens~ that cannot be lightly
condoned, and it seems to your committee that something more than the excuse
above referred to, and the recommendation of the expelling Lodge, is necessary to
justify the restoration of the offender to all the rights and privileges of M&eonry.
There is nothing here to indicate that if restored, the petitioner would come any
nearer to living up to the obligations of M&eonry than he did before his expulsion,
and if there has been no change, he certainly should not be allowed to be a member
of the Order. It should devolve opon one who seeks restoration to show that he
realizes and repents his offense, and is honestly endeavoring to lead such a life &a
will in itself be a recommendation for his readmission to the rights and privilegf'.s
of which he w&e properly deprived.
Your committee offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :Resolved, That the petition of .TA.MKS V ELBm, expelled by Pentalph,a Lodge,
No. 202, on May 19th, 1890, to be restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry, be and the same is hereby denied.
Your committee, to whom was rererred .the transcript of the record of trial of
Bro. WrLLU.M ELLSWORTH DAVIS, adjudged to be reprimanded by MadM"a Lodge,
No. 280, together with the appeal or the accuser from said judgment, have had the
same under consideration, and report as follows:-

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California.

217

The aooused was charged with having, after he had made a bill of sale of certain
personal property in trust for the benefit of certain creditora, .of whom the ac~user
was one, and while in possession of said property nnder permission of such oredi~rs,
obtained upon hie representation that he needed the same for the pu~poee of carrying
on his farming operations, and upon his promise that be woul~ dehver the same on
demand, disposed to another creditor the most valuable portion of such property•
thereby defrauding the other creditors thereof.
The property concerned was of such a nature that it was all exempt from. e:r.ecunon. The accused was found guilty and adjudged to suffer the pen~ty of repn~and.
The contention of the accuser is that the punishment allotted l.ll not sufficiently
severe.
. The case is evidently the outgrowth of a business controversy between the parties,
and the evidence indioatee that the principal motive for the institution of ~be P.roceedinge was the hope that thereby the creditor might induce payme?t ~f his cla111'..
It bas not been the policy of this Grand Lodge to encourage the brrngi~g or mei e
business difficulties into the tribunals of Masonry for settlement, and i~ has been
repeatedly held that the Grand Lodge will not take cogniunce or mere busmeee controverei~e. and that in order to wHrant an appeal to Masonry i? such matters, .there
must be a willful and deliberate disregard of moral and Masonic duty, and an mtention, knowingly and willfully, to cheat and defraud a b rother. The accused has not
appealed, which makes it unnecessary to consider whether t~e facts shown ou the
trial bring this case within the rule stated above. Concedmg, therefore, that the
evidence was sufficient to justify a verdict of conviction, your committee fe~l ~hat
the judgment of reprimand should be affirmed. The conclusion of th~ Oommll!Sl~n­
ers, who hear the evidence and sce all the witnesses, as to the pu_m ehment w~ch
should be infticted, is entitled to great weight, and should not be mterfer~ with,
except where it is clearly unjust. There is nothing i~ the circ~mstances of this case,
&a shown by the evidence, to take it out of the owrat1on of thlB rnl.e.
.
· Your committee offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:Reao!oeJ, That the judgment of Mad.era l..odge, No. 280, rendered Aug~st Sd,
1895, whereby Bro. WILLIAM ELLSWORTH DAVIS was adjudged to suffer repnmand,
be and the same is hereby affirmed.
In the matter or the petition or RoBEBT BRAull, expelled by Hesperian Lodge,
No. 264, on June 6th, 1890, to be regtored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry,
your committee report as follows: . The petitioner was expelled for habitual drunkenness. He has. ap~rently
reformed, and for some time has entirely abstained from the useof rn~xicating
Jiqoor. He gives every promise of being able to conform to the reeolut10? he has
made to not· again touch intoxicants. and He.-rpe.rian Lodge, No. 264, after bemg dnly
notified of his petition for restoration, unanimously recommends the granting of the
same. Under all the circumstances, your committee feel that the door_ of Freema.~onry should again be opened onto him, and recommena the adoption of the
following resolution:Beeo!oed., That RouERT Buu11,ex-pelled by HesperlanLodge, No. 264, on June 6th,
1q90, be and he hereby is restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

Your committee, to whom was referred the tran~cript of the record of trial of
HouitBT CanESTESEN, adjudged by Elk Grove Lodge, No. 178, on Hepte~hf'r 28th,
1895, to suffer reprimand, together with the appeal of the accuser from the Judgment,
report as follows :-

218

Proceedirigs of the

[Oct. 9,

Tho accused has not, as yet, given notice of appeal, and, under
the provisions of
the Constitution, he has thirty days from the date of the announc
ement of the result
o( the trial (8eptem ber 28th, 1895,) Within which to do so.
Until the expiration of
that time, no action can be had by this Grand Lodge. (See
case of MANN, Vol. XIX
Bound Proceedings, p. 210.)
Your committ ee, therefor e, offer the following resolutio n
and recommend its
adoptio n:Re1olt1ed, That consideration of the case of RonaaT CBBESTB
SBN, Adjudged by
Elk (}rone Lodge, No.173, on Septemb er 28th, 1895, to suffer
reprima nd, be and the
same is hereby contin11ed until the next Annual Commu
nication of this Grand
Lodge.
In the matt.er of the petition of CHABWl'.S H. GoRDo:-r , expelled
by Woodbri dge
Lodge, No.131, in LS75, to be restored to all the 'rights and
privileges of Masonry ,
your commUtee report as follows: -'
No reason is given by the petitione r in favor of his restorati
on, aud Woodbridge
Lodge, No. IS I, by unanimo us vote, has adopted a re~oluti
on protestin g ag~inst the
granting of his petition.
Your committ ee offer the following resolutio n and recommend
its adoptio n:&soloed , That the petition of 0BARLKB H. GORDON, expelled
by Wooclbridge
Lodge, No. 131, in 1875, to be restored to all the rights and privileg
es of Masonry, be
and the same is hereby denied.
.All which is respectfully submitte d.
FRANK MARION ANGELLOTTJ,
WILLIA)[ TBOJIU.8 REYNOLDS,
THoJUs JuirEBBON SHAOKLKFoBD,
WILLU.)[ BBWALL WELLS,
EDWARD REEB TBOllll'60N,

!

CommiUee.

.

All which npohs were ooncur red in, and the resolut ions
accompanyin g them were adopte d.
Bro. WILLIAM SEWALL WELLS, from the Comm ittee on Grieva
nces,
presen ted the followi ng report :To the M.·. W.·. Grand Lo,J,ge of California :Your committee, to whom was referred the transcri pt of the
trial record wherein
AROHIE MATHEWSON, a member of Bodie Lodge, No. 252, was
expelled from 1111 the
rights and privileges of Masonry by Bodie Lodge on the 17th
day of August, 1895,
have had the same under consider ation and report as followa
:There are two specifications, one of defamat ion of the characte
r of a deceased
Mason, and one of brawling and scandalous conduct towards
and with the wife of
the deceased, cu:mina.ting in a shooting affray with his stepson
on the public streets
of Bodie.
Though not approvin g of all the acts of the Commis sioners,
we find that the
accused appeared and was present through the entire' trial;
consented to all the pro ·
ceedings and waived all the irre~larities; no sub<tantial right
has been affected, the
evidence fully sustains' the charges and justifies the findings
, and the judgmen t
should be affirmed.
·
We therefor e offer the following resolution and recomm end
it.a adoptio n:-

1895.]

219

Grand Lo<lge of ()a'lijornia.

.
N 252 given on August 17th, 1895,
ReeoZoed, That the judgmen t of Bod1;lL~:r~m o~ll the rights
aud privileges of
whereby A.ROHIB MATHEW~O~e:i:y:::o:ed and affirmed.
Masonry, be and. the same is
Respectfully submitt ed.
FBANK ]\{ARION ANGELLOTTI,
}
WILLIAM THOMAS REYNOLDS,
THollAS JaFFERSON SHACKLEFORD, ~·
WILLIAM SEWALL WELLS,
EDWARD RaES TuolllPSON,
'

Which report was conour red ifl, and the resolut ion accomp anying
it was adopte d.
The Grand Lodge wa.s then called off until one o'clock this after·
noon.

aJn 6rantl ~odgt.
~

l

.AFTERN OON SESSIO N,

Wednesday, October 9th, .A. L. 5895. \

The Grand Lodge
presidi ng.

W ~~s called on at one o'clook, the Grand :Master

.
Bro. RALP:S: LowE presented the. following resolut ion :-

.

.

d . hty dollars be appropr iated from
Resolved , That the sum of one hundred a~d :tie Masonic
Board of Relief at San
the general fund of the G':11nd ~:1c!eo:ot~= :~ow and two
orphan children of Bro •.
Jose for the care and mainten
f E auricrl Lodge, State of Nevada.
JoHN CnAPlllA!!I, formerly a member o
s

Which was referre d to t h e Committee on Financ es.
.
.
B
C:e:ABLES E STONFl presented the followi ng resolut ion :ro.
.
anted to subordin ate Lodges

as fol·
&sol:ved, That life membe~h1ps mayo~es~ dollars per
annum the su~ to be
d when the dues are m excess
l 0 ws.• When the dues are not m exc.ess d 11
' ball be nmetv o ars, an
paid for a life member sh ip
· ht d l
s
be "d ball be one hundred and mg
y oof six dollars per annum the sum to't d
t:e Lodges in savi11g banks or invested
le.rs Said amounts shall be depos1 e ..
. bonds or other interest paying seount1es.

p:;

m Which was referre d to the Comm ittee on Jurispr udence
.

.
RAM NE~TON RuoKER, from the special
Bro. Past Grand Ma.star H1
ed the Addres s of the Grand Master
commi ttee to whom had been referr
anted the followi ng reports :
and the Report of the Grand Secreta ry' pres

220

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

To the M. ·• W. •. Grand Lodge of Calijorni,a .~
Yonr committ ee, to whom was referred the AdtlreBS of our
Gre.nd Me.ster, respectfully report that they have endee.vored to devote to that
pe.per the e.ttention which
Its merit so rightfull y demands . It is with ple11&ure and se.tisf,.c
tion that the member s
of your committ ee offer con11:ratule.tions for the zeal and
fidelity di• ple.yed by onr
Grand Master In bis ellorts to promote the interest• of Masonry
in California. As we
follow him in his vi•itBtions to various district• and Lodges
in this large jurisdict ion,
we are forcibly reminde d of the time be bas unselllsbly devoted
to the welf1ue of c.ar
beloved Order, and we feel that the trost°i:Dmmitted to his
care oae year ago we.a
not ooworth ily bestowe d. The duties of Grand Master, when
faithfully discbe.rged,
mee.o care e.od responsi bility e.nd the loss of mnch time from
pllrsonal affairs. The
record of the act.• of Gre.od MMter STEVENS affords abnndRn
t ·proof lhe.t his duties
have not been di•charg ed in a perfunct ory me.nner. In honoring
himself by patient,
faithfol le.bor, be he.e honored us.
Your committ ee ooogre.tule.te the Grand Lodge upon its good
fortune in entrustin g
. the iotereot• of Masonry to the keeping of such zealous and
faithful servants . From
his report we learn that Masonry ha• prospere d during
the year, notwiths tanding
the continue d lack of prosperi ty among the people. There
Is one subject containe d
in his Address, the contemp lation of ;vhich enshrou ds us in
gloom and saduess. ·The
tender and pathetic manner in which be e.llud11s to the dee.th
of Pe.st Grand Me.sters
BELOHEB &od BBOWNE, give but a faint concepti on of the
love &nd esteem in which
they were held by the Me.sons in Californ ia. One by one
these grand old veterans
e.re pa•sing away; me.y there continua lly e.rise from the 11&hes
of their remains com·
peteot, faithful, loyal men, to fill the void occe.sioned by tbrlr
loss. Io this connection, we desire to express our tbe.nks to our Grand llle.•ter,
together with the Deputy
Ore.ad Me.st.er and Grand Tree.sur er, for their faithful efforts
lo coosumme.ting the aim
of the Grand Lodge In the erection of the moonme ot to
our le.meot~d Past Grand
Master PRATT. The work reflects credit upon their pe.tient
ce.ra e.nd e.tteotioo .
There is one other subject mention ed in the Grand Master's
Address , which, in
the opinion of your committ ee, merits your attention . We
allude to the question of
the Bflllry of the Grand t:lecretary. His work is constant ly
increasi ng, and the compeooe.tioo is far below that which bis predeceBBOr received
, Many of us believed it
would be next to impossib le to fill the vacancy , in a satisf..
ctory manner, ce.ased by
the death of our lamented Bro. AeKLL; but we bave heard
uo complai nts in referenc e
·to his successo r. He is faithful, patient, compete nt; e.nd
we do not think there
should be such e. difference me.de in the compens ation he receives
. We have no other
recomm endation s to make, except that this matter, together
with all others mentioned in our Gr.. nd Master's report, relative lo the expendi
ture of money, be referred
to the Commit tee on Fiae.oce ; that so much as relates tu the
various deoisious of the
Grand Me.ster, the claodeRtine French Lodge in Los A~geles,
the permission to wear
Masonic clothing In e.tteodiog divine service, propos~d amendm
ent to the Coostito tion goveroio g the issue of dimits, e.od the queotion of uniformi
ty of the ritua I, be
reterred to the Commit tee on Jurispru dence ; that so much
es relates to Fall Rioer
Lodge, No. 270, be referred to the Commit tee on Charter
s; that so much as relates
to the death or Past Grnod Masters BELOHKR and BROWNE
, be referred to e. speci1&l
committ ee of five, to be named by the Grand Master.
Your committ ee, to whom was referred theAnno al Report of
our Grand Secretar y,
have carefully consider ed the excellen t paper or that officer,
and find it e. model in
its we.y. It is Rystematic and perfect in arrangem ent. It
is gratifyin g to note that
Bro. JOHNSON shows the same zeal a'!d pride in adding to the
Grand Lodge's Library

1895.]

G-rand LO<lge oj Oulifornia.

221

.
h . g tbe.t three hundred e.od ninety·
as did bis· venerab le pre d eoeasor •' his
. reports owrn
The change made in the oonet•t
I a·
one volumes have been added ~u~ng ~he y::de his duties
in the interim e.n onerous
i
on
at
the
last
Annual
C.
o
mmumca
t1on ave
t
•
per11evere.oce.
.
th f
task, requirin g mttc? pa•1eoce a od in
the Grand Secretar y's Report that is
wor y o
There is one snbJect mention ed
"Thare seems to have been B
tol
ti
n
He
says:
note e.nd is a cause for congra a o t . ls for Masonic
offenses this year as com·
cooaldere.ble decrease in the number o r1a t lod1·cate that
onr more.ls have greatly
0
"
This
would
seem
pared with former Yl'&U.
·
h
particul ar in the select100
o f the ma te·
improve d, or that our Lodges are m~c m;rbee.tever may be
tbe cause, we should all
rial which enters into oar member ship.
d
d bow pleasant it is for brethren to
feel like exclaim ing: ·•Behol d! how goo e.n

f

Q

dwell together iu unity."
. . th t the reasons p;lveo by oar Grand Secretar y
Your committ ee are of the op101on ~ t d roceedlo gs are
good, e.ud we recom.
for an iocree.se in the onmber of oor prlD e thp with the
suggesti on that amended
mend that this portion of his R~port~ ~:ese:: to the severe.I
Grand Lodges with
copies of our Grand Lodge Const1tot~othe Grand Secretar y's
account with the Grand
which we are in correspo ndence, e.o
F' nee It seems that all other papers
ID&
·
Treasur er, be referred t o tbe c o mmittee ton
the time referred to the appropr iate com·
received by the Grand Becret~Y wer: e.
meudati on necessar y on the part of
mittees, and, therefor e, there IB no ot er recom
your special commiit.ee.
. th fact that our Gre.nd Secretar y Is able to
Before closing we wish to :~~t:~:eLo:ges in the jorisdiot
ioo, exceptF alZ River
show 8 clean balance sheet wi
.
re.ciically defunct.
Lodge, No. '17il, e.nd this has for some time. h~~e0 ":nost importa
nt officer lo the Grand
In me.oy respects the ~ra?d Secre~:a:d Lodge, and (every
subordin ate Lodge,
0
Lodge The bee.Ith and v1te.hty of the
I ctful of his duty, and discord, confu•
ta
Let
him
be
neg
e
depends opoo the Beere ry.
.
.
oe We oongre.tule.te the 0 ran d
sion and
Lodge ou e
·
. All which is respectf ully submitte d.
HIRAM NKWTON RucKBB.
EDWARD SWIFT WK&T,
\ Committee. ·
. DETLEF HilSEN'
B&NJA!lllll FBANKLIN TBOMAB,
JOSEPH BAILEY COOKS,

t!tboan8cdieall1.t1y·n:~:~~!i:~~ly ~~~!l~:::;;eecre~ery.

ed
Both which reports were concurr in' e.nd the referen ces therein
recomm ended were ordered to be made.
Bro. FRANK :MARIO N ANGEL LOTTI; from the Committee on
Grieve.noes, presen ted the .following report:~
• W:. Grand Lodge of Californ ia:To the M. · · •

.

i t of the record of tne.1 of
tre.oscr P
, 80 d
Your committ ee, to w hom was referredd the No
16 00 Decemb er 6th, 189"'•
3
by
Sangtr
Le
ge,
d
II
·
'the
RoelliRT J PADl!:N, expe e
'd
b
had
same under cons1 ere.t'I ou '
the appeal from the jndgn1ent by the a.ceased• ave
and report as follows :.
·t
t Annas.I Commu nication , when,
This case was before the Grand Lodge at I s 1as
ed e.od t he cause remande d
d'
gs
the
judgmen
t we.s revel'A
for errors in the procee 10 •
.
~
5
]
The transcri pt now b e f0re
7
1
for retrial. [Grand Lodge Proc~edmgs,1 189
. : p~ J' ud.gmeot of expolsio n. From this
d
h s ll new trial, resa ting ID
the Gr1rnd Lo ge s ow
d to the Grand Lodge.
judgmen t the accused has e.ppea1e

.

222

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

The accused wae fonod guilty opon four epeciflcatlooe. It is doubtful wlietber the
evidence is sufficient to sustain the verdict of guilty on either the fourth or firtb
specifications, but It is oooeceesary to devote any attention to either of these,
inasmuch as the verdict of gnllty oo the first and second Is amply sustained by the
testimony. The substance of these two specifications is that the accused, in the town
of Sanger, where he lived, associated in pnblic'with a woman well 1<nown as a pro1ti·
tote, received bAr into hie own household, where she lived for some weeks in com·
pany with hie wife and family, accompanied 'her and hie wife together to San
Francisco, where they all stopped at the same hotel, and in general associated with
her as an acquaintance.
Such conduct does not become a Mason, who bas in hie care not only hie own
honor, bot the honor of the Order to which he belongs. He h&s no right to do any·
thing which will reflect discredit upon Masonry, and when be is guilty of any ench
aot, the interests of Masonry demand that be should no longer be known as a member
of the Order.
Although the errors found in the record of the proceedings of the first trial have
been rectified, your committee cann.o t recommend the transcript in this case as a
model for future proceedings. The errors now fonnd are, however, all immaterial,
and cannot have operated to the prejudice of the accused.
Your committee offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:Re80?tled, ihat the judgment of Sanger Lodge, No. 316, rendered on December
6th, 1894, whereby ROBERT J. PADBN was expelled from all the righte\nd privileges
of Masonry, be 1t.nd the same is hereby affirmed.
All "!hlch is reapectfnlly submitted.

Flin MABION ANGELLOTTI,

WILLi.A.lil THOXAS R:sYNOLDB,
THOXA8 J BF'F'BB801!1 SHAOKLEJ'ORD,
WILLI.A.lil 8BWALL WBLLB,
EnWABD RBES THOHPSOl!I,

}

Committee.

Which report was concurred in, and the resolution accompanying
it was adopted.
Bro. TBoMA.s JEFFERSON SBAClKLEFOBD presented the following
resolution :Reaol"11cl, That rnptnre or hernia, nnleBB lrrednoible, is not each disability as to
cause one to be ineligible for the degrees of Masonry.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Treasurer presented hi~ Annual Report to the Grand
Lodge, as follows:To the M. •• W.-. Grand Lodge qf CklZifornia:The undersigned herewith submits hie account of the receipts and expenditures of
the Grand Lodge during the past year, as followy :-

1895.]

223

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

.
of California,
The Grand 7reasur11r in acoount wit· h th11 (}r and Lo"ne
.....,
.
for the f!aoal year ending 31st July, 1895. .
1894.- 95.

RECEIPTS.

Dr.
Rep. Fand. Gen. Fund.

Ang. 1. Bal1mce in the treasury as per last account, . ••..••. 74.9 75
Received from Grand Sec.retary this date, . . ••. • • . •. $
Ang. 7.
945 50
cc
,,
,,
• •• • •• • •• •
Aug. 13.
990 75
,,
"
"
Ang. 20.
853 75
"
An!{. 27.
3fi8 75
A:ng. 31.
156 50
Sept. 11.
58 25
Sept. 21.
46 00
"
Oc~.
S.
17 00
Oot. 4.
,, ···· ····· ·
Feb. 7.
)lay 13.
4.6 50
Joly 15.
"
5 00
Cl
• • • • • • • • • •
.Joly 31.
Interest 00 $7,ooo six per cent. bonds of the
July 31.
Blue Lake Water Co.... . .. . ... ·· • .. . .. .. .... . . .... _._ __

$ 566 98

Total• of balances and receipts for the year, . • • ... •••••.$4,227 75

$19,955 48

..

..

Making an aggregate amount of both funds, of••• · • •

2,560 25
3,164. 50
3,316 2b
2,909 25
1,238 25
601 50
190 75
320 75
78 00
1,050 00
950 00
1,300 00
1,289 00
420 00

$24.,183 23

DISBURSEMENTS.
Or.
._ •
For Account of Salaries of Gremel Ojftcera:
189 95
Paid Grand Secretary, as per voncbers Nos. S. 9, 82, 55, 72, 2 604. 13
80 89 98, 113 120 127, us ..... ............... ... ........$ •
Paid ~BB'~ Grd. S:,c•y,' as per vouchers Noe. 83, 56, 71, 78, 88,
97' 112, 119, 126, 141, ..•• •••••••••••• :: . . • • . ..... . .. .... . 485 00
100 00
27
Paid Grand Tyler,
" "
"
"
•· · · · ·••• ••• •· • •
50 00
Paid Grand Organist, " "
" !~·· 7~""95."."."."
500 00
Paid Grand Leoturer, " "
' '
200 00 $3,939 13
Pu.id Grand Treu.s'er, " "
" 14.2••· • • • ·· · ·· • •• •
For ~cot.mt of l!}xpeiaaea of E1'loti11e Grand Officers :
f the 'Grand :Master, Deputy Grand Master,
Paid expenses o
• d" th
Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, in a.ten mg e Grand
Lodge at the Communication in 1894, as per vonchers Noe.
108 25
12, 13, 14, 15, .... ... .. .. ...... .. ........ . ... . .. . . . . .. . . .
For Aooount of l!}xp~es of last Oommunioation :
.
es of the Oommunication of the Grand
Paid sundry expens
« 76
2 28 29 50 63
Lodge in l894, as per vouchers Nos. 6, • • • •· • • • •
11 Account of J!)J:penseil of Grand Seuretary'B Ojftce :
or
. d" 2 100 copies of the proceedings of
Paid for printing and bm ing '
75
1 752 75
the Grand Lodge in 1894, as per vouchers Noe. 68' ' . .... '
. • d · the year as per vouchers Noe.
Paid·for sundry pnntiog urmg
'
· · 539 25
2, 87 4.2, 64, 94, 115, 122, 133, .•••• •••.••• . •• . . •.•• .• • • •••
Paid for ~eot of office of the Grand Secretary for the year, as 1,200 00
per vouchers Noa. 10, 69, 99, 129, • · • • • • •· ' · · • • • • • .. · .. • • • •

".".".".

224

ProceedingB of f'h.e

[Oct. 9,

Paid for P.ostage stamps, box rent, expressage Proceedings,
S. F • Directory and Standard Dictionary, as per vouchers
Nos. 40, 48, 76, 109, 124, 197,
313 4.1
Paid for parchment for diplomas -~~d ~-b~;~·r~: ~jbb~·~ (~; ~~~~
Guide:
F.
s.
telephone,
diplomas,
printing
roll,
roll call, pay
wrapping paper, pens, ink and rubber bands, as per
vouchers Nos. 1, 6, 6, 7, 8, 16, 98, 39, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 61,
63, 60, 61, 62, 73, U, 81, 82, 83, 91, 92, 101, 102, 103, 107,·
ll4, 116, 12l, 128, 180, 131, 132 134 185
284 18
Paid for care of office, fuel and ~und~y i~~ld;~~~j ~~~~~~~~·
as per vouchers Nos. 34, U, 57, 65 70 77 86 93 96 111,
•
'
'
J
t
118 125
' 139 .••• · ••••·· •••• · ••· .••• . ..••• ..•.••.••••• . ••• 150 00
•

Being a total amount of disbursements for the year, of•. •• •
And leaving a balance in the treasury of•••••• ••

S,484 60
$21,697 79
2,4.85 44

RECAPITULATION.
Rep. Fund. Gen. l!'and.

'

4,239 59

For Account of &Ira EZpendilurea ordered :
Paid to the sever11ol Boards of Relief in the Jurisdiction, as per
6 480
. -vouchers Nos.18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24... . . .. , .... •••••• •
00
Paid to the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence:~~ '
250 00
per voucher No. 17,. . . • • . . . • • • . . . . • • • . . • . . . . •
Paid L. Wad ham, for enminiog books of Grand Tr~~~r·e·r· ~~·d
Grand Aecretary, as per voncber No 25
70 00
Paid to Past Grand Master John A.' T;~~; ~~-;~~· ~-~~~b~;~
480
Nos.'• 30, 67, 87, llO, 138
00
Paid E. 0. Bare, expenses as G~~~d "j;~t-~r~~..f~~· ~Ss~:·~~
voucher No. 11..........
230 00
500 00
Pa~d Mrs. Charles R. Gritman:-~~ ~~r ~~~~h;; ·;.~:
of
expenses
contingent
of
account
on
Stevens,
Paid James B.
Grand Master, as per voucher No 85
300
OO
Paid for rent of box in Safe Deposit bnlldl~~; -~~ ·~~~· ~~~~h~;
. No. 36 • • • • •••••••• •• •••••••••• •. • ••••••••.••• •• .••••••
IO 00
Paid for office chair, rugs and recovering loooge, desk and
193 3
table, as per vouchers Nos. 52 69 66
8
Paid for portrait of Past Grand ~as;er 0~~~:. ~~d ·l~~~j~~
127
frame, as per voncher No. 68
60
Paid for cleaning and varnishing P~t·G;·~~·d -~~;~; ~~~;;~ibi:
as per voucher No. 84.
56 00
Paid for molding and rehao;lo ~ P~~ {;;~~d· M~~~~;~; ~~~~;~i·t· •
regildiog frames, and frame for P. G. M . Orme's portra1':'
•
'
as per voucher No. 86 . . • .
38 43
Paid Mariri Lodge, No. 191,"~~. ~~~·u-~t· ·~f j"." F:: ·5~j : • ~ · · ~~ · 1
p
vouchers Nos. 90, 128, UO • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • . •
183
OO
Paid for relief of daughter of Past Grand Master .fi~~~.-~
voucher No. 100 • • . . . • • • • . • . . . . • • • ••• • •
25 00
1
Paid for oak bookcase for library, as per vo~~h~~ ·N~·. io~
55 00
Pai~ for binding Vol. XXI (300 copies) Grand Lodge Proc~~d··
16.5
•
.
•
•
•
•
100
mgs, as per voncber No.
00
Paid for shelvlog lo library, as per vouch;;· ii~."
9 66
Paid premiums on bonds of Grand Treasurer, as p~; • ~~~~h;;
No. 108 .. • ••..••..•.•••••••• . . • . • ••
u; 00
Paid for binding 391 volumes Proceedi~;~ . ~f ~ti;~;'
ran
117
•
N
voucher
per
as
Bodies, periodicals, etc.,
0
293 25
Paid Harry C. Bush, traveling expenses as Grand u;~~~~;; j.~;
1895, as per voucher No. 136..... .• . • • • • •. • . . • • . • • . . • • • . . 169 90

225

For Account of Paymen:t qf BepresentatitJea, eta.:
Representatives of Lodges, amount disbursed as per pay roll . •.• 8,300 75
Appointed Grand OfficerR and Chairman of Standing Committees,
amount disbursed as per pay roll,.. • • • • • • • •• . • • . • • • • • • • • • 183 75

·

J

Grand Lod.ge of Oallfi>rnw.

1895.l

I

Balance remaining in the treasury Angnst 1, 1894.. . • . . . • . . . . • •
Receipts during the year ending Jnly 81 , 1895 .. . . .... .. .. .... . . U,227 76

566 98
19,388 50

Being a total amount of balances and receipts, of . . . ..• $4,227 75 $19,955 48
DisbnrsemeotH during the year ending Joly 81, 1896... . ........ 8,484 50 18,213 29
Showing balances to the credit of the two fUnds of••. •.... • •• . $ 743 25 $ 1,742 19
743 25
Which being aggregated....... .. .... . ..... . ....
$ 2,485 44
Exhibits a general balance in the treasury, July 31, 1895, of. . .•
The v;onchers for all the foregoing, with the Grand Treasurer's account books,
are herewith presented ; and, In addition to the balance of $2 ,486 '4, cash on
hand, he reports that he has lo hie keeping 3,889 shares of the capital stock of
the Mas01iic Ball Association of the Oity of Sao Francisco, tbe par value of which
is $88,890, and the actual present valne $77,780; also seven 6 per cent. $1000 first
mortgage bonds of the Blue Lake Water Co., the par value of which is $7,000 ;
besides U.S. bonds and cash belonging to the "Reserve Food,'' amoootlng to the
sum of $5,070.3', as will be seen in a separate and detailed report, accompanying
this•
All which is respectfully submitted by
EDWARD COLEMAN,
Grand TreaSUl'er.

·;;;

·3;:.::::::::

0

The Grand Treasurer also present.ed his Annual Report, relative

to the &serve Fund, as follows :-

0

To the M.·. W. ·• Grand Lodge of Ooofornia :The Grand Treasurer, as cnstodian of the reserve fund of the Grand Lodge, enb ·
mits the following report:1895.
Joly 31. To balance of cash on hand, as per last report• . •••••• ••.• . .••••$ 488 84
To cash received as interest on U. S. 4 per cent bonds.•. . .. .... . . 158 00

1

·;;;
· ···· ·

Being a total of caeh received and now on hand, of•••• •. .••.••• ••.• •• •• • . $ 646 3'
There is also now on hand, In the posse88lon of the Grand Treasurer, $8,950,
par value, in U.S. 4 per cent. bonds, which at 112, the price quoted at
this date, is . •....•••••. .. .. . ..••• ••••••• ••••• .. .•••..•.. •.• . ••• ••• .. 4,424 00
Making total of cash and bonds now on hand of . .• • •. ••• •••.•.•.•••. . . . •• 5,070 34.
The Grand Treasnrer also reports amount on hand, as per last report, for
account of the Pratt :Monument Fund, the snm of........ . ...... . . . . • • 901 '65
Received from collection last communication . ... . .. .. . . . . . • . •. • • • . . . . • • • • 104 20

ios···········
G···d

9,881 57

Total of balance and receipts .. ...•••.•.•.• ••.•• .• ••.•• ••• •••••• $1,006 75
Paid to Monument Committee .••••.••• . • •.• .•••.. • •. .••• ••• ••• ••.••••••. 1,004. 00
Which leaves a balance to the credit of the fnod of•••••• •••• . ••••••• . •••• $

15

1 76

.226

Proceedings of the ·

[Oct. 9,

To the foregoiDg I desire to add, that there is an unsettled balaDce due the Grand
Lodge from Past GraDd Treasurer NATHAN W&sTOM SPAULDING, amountiDg to $242.68,
aDd in my opfniOD the subject matter ehonld be referred to a proper committee,
that an iDvestigatioD should be had, aDd proper entries ordered made iD the books
of the Gr&nd Treasurer. There is also due $99 82 OD acconDt of interest OD U.S. boDds.
MaklDg a tot&! amonnt nDacconDted for by him in his laet settlement with the
GraDd Lodge, of $282.60.
All which le reepectfnlly submitted by
EDWARD OOLEMAN,
(}rand Trecuurer.

Both whicli reports, with their accompanying books and vonchers;
were ordered to be referred to the Committee on Finances.
Bro. CoRNBLIUS Wm.LES PBNDLETOM, from the Committee on Betnrns, presented the following report :To the M.·. W.'. Grand Lodge of Oalifornta :Yonr committee, to whom was referred the examination of the returns of the
Lodges for the cnrreDt year, have, with the aeeistaDce of the Grand Secretary, per·
formed that dnty, aDd take pleasure in reporting. that the retorne of all the Lodges
have beeo received by that office~; that a majority of them were prepared correotly;
that those which were in the first lnstaDce erroneous have since been corrected' by the
Secret&ries, npon Dotice thereof (iD some caeee more than once repeated) by the
Grand Secretary; that the dnee have, in nearly every instance, accompanied the
reports; and that all the does have now been paid.
Th~ classification whi<'h follows will show the respective credit~ doe to the Beere·
tRrlee of the several Lodges:The reports of the iollowlDg one hundred and fifty Lodges were traDsmitted
within the period of time prescribed by the Oouelltntion; were accompanied by the
does; were iD all respects correct ; and were han.d8<nluly prepared :-

California,
No. 1, Yuba,
Western Star,
2, Sacramento,
Tehama,
3, Martinez,
Benfcia,
6, Mount Moriah,
Oorinthian,
9, Orescent,
Yount,
" 12, Te:ws,
Neoada,
" 13, Michigan Oity,
'18mp/,e,
" H , Suisun,
Eureka,
" 16, Volcano,
Parfatle Union,
" 17, Union,
Mountain Shade, " 18, Litle Oak,
San .Joaquin,
" 19, Natoma,
Washington.,
" 20, .Amador,
Madison,
'' 28, Forest,
El Dorado,
" 26, Morning Star,
Trinity,
" 27, Humboldt,
Golden (}ate,
" 30, Ione,
Ophir,
" 33, Yolo,
Ban Diego,
" 35, Veeper,
Saint John'•,
" 37, Naoal,
Banta Gruz,
38, Quitman,

No. 39, North Stai·;
40, Hem-y Ola11,
" 41, Howard,
" 44, Jefferson,
·45, Hornitos,

" 46, lbmpa Seco,
47, Manzanita,
" 55, .Arc~.
" 56, qtDen,
" 58, Pajaro,
" 61, Eden.
64, Ooncord,
" 66 , Fidelity,
·• 66, La FayeUe.
'' 68. Hermann,
" 79, Nicolaus,
" 80, Woodbridge,
" 81, Valley,
" 84, Paaific,
" 87, OrockeU,
" 88, fhoofttm,

No. 91 ,
,,

96,
u
96,
,. 97,
98,
u 100,
.. 102,
.. 106,
" 108,
" 110,

.. us,

.. 117,
" 120,
.. 126,
.. 127,
129,

" 131,
.. 135,
136,
.. 139,
.. 141,

1895.]

=:~:·
.AbeU,
Eel R iller,
Molino,
Palmyra,
woodland,
(}ibeontlille,
Pilot Hill,
Keystone,
Miaaion,
.DrytO'U111,
Phamiz,
Mendocino,
Meridi an,
Clear Lake,
Olaiborne,
Boening Stai-,
Northern Light,
Marin,
San Simeon,
Silveyoille,
Pentalpha,
Oo11fidence,
Salinas,
Newville,
Stani.Zaus,
.Anaheim,
Rit• Vista,

(hand Lodge of California.

227

N~; ~!!: !!:g::i:~~·· .. N~; ~~:: ~=n;ountain, N~,' ~~~:
" 14.6, Bo. Ban~·anciAOo, " 212, .Anr.hor,
" 1,7, Doric,
" 216, .Arroyo,
•• 150, Mcmlerey,
" 217, Ha'lford,
" 161, Mosaic,
" 218, Mount Bhaata,
" 156, Speranza .llaliana, " 219, OaUayomi.,
" 158, Baker~ld.,
" 224, South West,
" 160, Brooklyn,
" 225, Paso Rob/,es,
" 161, Athens,
" 228, Winnedumah,
" 169, S olano,
" 229, MazweU,
" 1U, North Butte,
.' • 230, .Eleinore,
" 178, Calistoga,
" 233, Sunset,
" 179, Surprise VaUey,
" 235, Lo• Gato•,
" 1811, Hills Ferry,
" 236, Trailer,
" 188, · Guadalupe,
" 237, Mount Jackeon,
" 185, Colusa,
" 240, Silller Gate,
"1~6, Magnolia,
" 242, Dunsmuir,
" 190, EucaZyptut,
" 243, Liberty,
" 191, .Alcatraz,
" 244, Blldlan~.
" 196, .AUuras,
" 248, Banta Lucia,
" 201, Reading,
" 254, Porterllille,
" 202, Welcome,
" 255, .AzuBa,
" 203, E'Oergreen,
" 259, Ashlar,
" 204, King Solomon's,
•· 260, Delano,
" 205, Tutoan,
" 261, Hueneme,
" i06, Hesperian,
" 264, Norwalk,
" 207, Orland,
" 265, Hollenbeck,
" 208, Galt,
" 267, .Alisa!,

" 273,
" 27',
" 279,
" 281,
" 282,
" 283,
" 286,
" 287,
" 2R8,
" 289,
" 290,
" 292,
" 294,
" 295,
" 296,
".297,
" 299,
" 300,
" 302,
" 303,
" 305,

" 806,
" 309,
" 311,
" 315,
" 319,
" 321.

The reports of the following fifty Lodges were transmitted within the proper
time • were accompanied by the dues; were in all respeota correct; and were tceU

'

.

prep&red:No. 231,
Oocidental,
No. 22, Curtis,
No. H O, Oot1elo,
.. 232,
.Forbestown,
" 60, Vltru!liUB,
" 145, Jane81Jille,
"24.1,
(}ratlei Range,
" 59, Laasen,
" U9, Santa .Ana,
" 246,
George Washinqton," 62, Harmony,
" 164, Laurel,
.. 246,
.Enterprise,
" 70, J!b:celsior ,
" 166, Pomona,
.. 253,
Oalat1era•,
" 78, San Ma.tea,
" 168, Landmark,
.. 266,
Be. Helena.
" 93, Arcturus,
" 180, North East,
" 275,
La (}range ,
" 99, Russian Rifler,
" 181, Oakda1.e,
.. 280,
Olay,
" 101, Sierra Valley,
" 184, Madera,
.. 284.,
Orooille,
" 103, Keith,
" 187, Tyrian,
.. 293,
<Jhwo,
" 111, Oakland,
" 188, Orange <JrOfle,
" 304:,
Summit,
·• 112, Banta Barbara,
" 192, Reed'ley,
" 308,
.Mount Zion,
" 114, Ferndale,
" 193, Monrotiia,
.. 810,
Ionic,
" 121, Buokeye,
" 195, Bisson,
.. 313,
Boioyome,
" 123, 7ruckee,
" 200, Tehachapi,
.. 317.
Yosemite,
" 133,_ Oak <Jrotle,
" 215, FalUJrook,
Vaoa1JiUe,
" 134, Hayward,
" 226,
The reports of the following three Lodges were transmitted within the pro~er
time; were accompanied by the does ; were In all respects correot; and were fa,rly
prepared:No. 92.
No. 42, .Acacia,
No. 25, Los .AngP,lel,
Georgetown,

228

Procee.dinga of the

[Oct. ·9,

Lodge s wer~ transm itted within the
pro:: ~=eor:ndo~:~: f:!~owing ·t~ir:y-one
correo tione,

dnes; hnt each reqnire d
which were 'dnly made h t~:rmet _Y the
being notified (somet imes more than
npon
ar1es
:-eore
'ary
Secre!
Grand
the
by
once)
8, Mountain View, No. 19',
~
" 199,
" 10, Hartley,
210,
"
" 24, Friendship,
" 32, 8 B
an uena1'entura, " 214,
" 51, Downey,
" 220,
" 57,
" 234,
Hope,
247,
"
,
" 83, ~esno
·
" 84,
" 256,
Lodi, ·
" 119, Penrhyn,
" 258,
" 269 ,
" 122, Olfoe Branch,
" 173 ,

No.

Tuolu:,nne,
S an ~o•
. e,
Mariposa,
Gold Bill,
Illinoistown,
8 nt Ro
~ a aa,
Ruing Star,
Ll!J:i to
ng n,
Olinton,
la
.A mo,
Elk <lrOTJe,

p
No. 272,
asadena,
" 277
Selma,
'
SouthernOalifornf.a," 278,
,, 291,
Santa ~aula,
" 301,
Ontario,
" 307,
Santa .Monica,
" 312,
Los Bano11,
San
" 316,
ger,
" 318,
Emmanuel,
8 outh Gate,
" 320.

s were correc t, and were accom
:he report s or the follow ing twelve Lodge
•
the proper time :within
itted
transm
not
were
bnt
dues;
pan1ed by the
No. 132,
No. 250,
No. 21, Sincerity,
Adin,
Hawaiian,
" 198, Bodie,
" 252,
" 43, Wilmington,
Hiram ,
" 227, Temeaoal,
" 314,
" 60, Contra OoBi,a,
Pluma s,
" 322•
" 77, Green1'iUe,
Petalu ma,
" 249, Alham bra,
dnes b t
the
by
panied
accom
were
s
Lodge
eight
the f~ll~wiog
The report s
and requir ed correc tions, which 'ha:e
:::: ~::r:::;1~d w1tlnn the proper time,

o!

Roae'a Bar,

Table Mountain,
Antioch,

No. 89, Inyo,
" 124, Granite,
" 175, Lompoc,

No. 221,

San Miguel,

" 222, Mokelumne Hill,
.. 262,

No. 285 ,
" .2 98 •

.
·
· ·
transm it!
The report s of the following three Lodge s were
proper time,
al tho h th ehd w1tb.m thebeen
paid: but were not then acoompaoied by the dues '
ey ave smce
ug
'la d
No 128
No.16 7.
Mountain, No. 76, Viaalia
me a,

Bear

,

•

•.

.a

h
Your commi ttee again think it prope t
t at, ~rom informatio1:1 furnished
by the Grand Secret ary, they find thatr t:e r;!1~rt
No:w~:g ~lnll9E Lo9dges have confer red
bnt two degree s each during the year viz .
• • • "• 6, 103, 124, 182, 204
"
'
and 282:
•
bot
That the following fi/relln Lodges have confer red 2210 n26e 2de2g8r8ee each donng the
195
314 ·
year, viz.: Nos. 26, 41, 56, 83, ll9, 136' 173 ' 187 •
and
313
298,
,
•
•
•
·
.
r
That the following forty-nine Lodge s have confer
year,
the
during
def~ee
e:3n~8
92
91
89
81,
80,
78,
77,
66,
viz.: Nos. 2, 32, 45, 47, 62,
• 102, 108, 114, 132,
' .' ' • •
183, 18.'i, Hl, 158, 161 16 4 lB4 196 22 2
232 233, 285, 236, 240, 248, 249,
•
:
~~~·
!!~
~
•
250, 253, 258, 267, 271 , 74 , ; 80, 85, ~

2 29 2

2

f

That the following twenty-eight Lodges have
con erred no degree during two
~
years. past, viz.: Noe. 46, 47 78 80 81 89 92
~ ; :~· ~~; 1os, m, 132, 133, 135, 141,
161, 164, m, 221, 231, 235, 49 ,' 2;~. ~ • ~ .'
.
red ,
That the following 81.:Ueen Lodges have confer
~~:e e ~::;
~;~:.g
~;:,r~:
.
'
:
2,
1
m,
108,
3 1 8
~~~· viz.: Nos. 78, 80, 81, 89, 92, 98,

2

8

2 7 71 7

2

1

2 24

·
n d
That the following IP.1len Lodges have confer red o egree dormg four years past,
viz.: Nos. 78, 92, 98, lOfl, 114, 133 and 227:

1895:]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

229

red no degree during five years past,
That the following three Lodg('s have confer
viz.: Nos. 78, 98 and 114 :
six years past.
That Lodge No. 78 bas confer red no degree during
ed by the Grand Secreprepar
ent,
statem
ing
follow
Your commi ttee presen t the
or the Lodges now in existe nce:tary, showin g the compa rative memb ership s
there are thirleen, viz.: Nos. 1,
or those having two hundre d memb ers, or more,
278:
and
260,
io, 22 . u, 61, 120, 136, 166, 169, 188, 202,
than two hundre d, there are ten,
Of those having one hundre d and fifty, and lees
216:
and
215
viz.: Nos. 30, 35, 42, 57, 58, 79, 144, 210,
one hundre d and fifty, there are
or those having one .hundr ed, and less than
68 , 70, 87, lll, 127, 189, 146, 178·,
40,
39,
23,
21,
twent.y ·three, viz.: Nos. 3, 8, 13, 17,
.320:
and
272
259,
247,
2«,
212,
180,
one hundre d, there are twenty·threll,
or those having seventy-five, and less than
156, 167, 200, 204, 209, 219, 225, 241,
viz: Noe. 9, 12, 19, 39, 106, UO, 117, 128, 151,
246, 268, 269, 300, 319, and Corona, U. D.:
there areftfly-three, viz.: Nos. 2,
Of those having fifty, and less than seventy-five,
10~. 113, 123, 124, 126, 129, 131,
,
99,·101
96,
95,
93,
84,
77,
65,
55,
41,
37,
5, 20, 27,
206, 211, 214, 217, 224, 229, 240, 242,
134, 147, 149, 168, 1~9. 187, 191, 192, 193, 198, 201,
807:
and
301
296,
292,
291,
243, 246, 254, 264, 277, 279, 290,
BeTJenty-three , viz.: Nos. 14, 16,
are
there
fifty,
than
less
and
thirty,
Of those having
88, 91, 102, 122, 135, 140, 143,
80,
76,
66,
64,
60,
59,
51,
18, 24, 25, 26, 82, 33, 47, 50~
195, 199, 205, 208, 218, 220,
194,
190,
186,
145, 150, 158, 161, 173, 175, 181, 182, 185,
252. 253, 255, 256, 261, 262, 265, 266, 273,
250,
236,
234,
233,
232,
230,
228,
226,
222,
221,
308 and 316:
275, 280, im, 2~3. ~8;. 2H, 299, 3)2, 303, so;,
tb11re arefor ty-setien, viz.: Nos. 43,
Of those having twenty , and 1e88 than thirty,
141, 164, 183, 184, 196, 203; 201,
1s2,
121,
119.
112,
104,
loo,
97,
,
92
83,
81,
45, 46, 78,
287, 288, 298, 304, 306, 309,
285,
284,
282,
274,
271,
267,
258,
227, 231, 2:15, 237, 248,
U. D.:
1o,
OonStl8
and
D.
U.
6r,
310, 311, 312 , 314, 315, 322, Whittl
fourteen, viz.: Nos. 56,
are
there
,
twenty
than
less
and
fifteen,
01 those having
321:
and
318
317,
313,
297,
294,
3,
62, 89, 98, 108, 174, 289,-29
four, viz.: Nos. 114, 133, 160 and 249.
01 those having less than fifteen , there are
l Lodges of the Jurisd iction were
The amoun ts for dnes for which the severa
s:follow
as
are
indebt ed, and which have all been paid,
. Gen. Rep.
Gen. Rep.
Name and No. Fund. Fund. Total.
Total.
Name s.nd No. Fund. Fund.
20, 61 00 18 00 79
Walhington,
1. $4ll 50 120 50 $532
Calif"1'11ia,
21, 115 25 ·-11 54
2, 38 25 12 75 61 Hawai ian,
Wedtern Star,
22, 173 25 51 75 225
Occidental,
128
25
28
75
99
3,
a,
Teham
23, 101 50 32 50 134
5, 44 75 13 25 58 Madison,
Benicia,
24, 29 00 9 00 38
Ra,
Maripo
119
25
26
75
8, 92
Tuolumne,
41 50 10 50 112
25,
town,
(}eorge
125
9, 102 50 22 50
0(Jrinthian,
26, 3400 11 00 45
10, 169 00 51 00 220 El Dorado,
San Jose,
27, 57 25 15 75 73
12, 75 50 22 50 98 Trinity,
Yount,
30, 156 25 44 75 201
Gate,
(}olden
132
25
32
75
99
13,
Nevad a,
32, 28 50 9 50 38
14, 41 25 10 75 52 (}old Kill,
Temple,
33, 31 75 9 25 41
Ophir,
64
16, 42 00 12 00
Eureka,
36, 146 25 43 75 190
Par;taUe Union, 17, 90 50 26 60 117 San Diego,
, 37, 51 00 16 00 67
Mo ..nt'n Shade, 18, 33 75 9 25 43 Saint John's
38, 103 50 32 50 136
oruz,
Santa
104
50
24
50
79
San .Toaquin, 19,
t the State,J>&jd no dues to the Bepren
• HatDaiian Lodge, being located withou
N, Gr. Seo.
&lld reoeivee no allowan ce therefr om. JOHNSO

ntathe Fund

230

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 9,

Gen. Rep.
Gen. Rep.
Tot.a.I.
Name and No. Fund. l!'nud.
Name and No. Fund. Fund. Total.
39, S84 25 $22 76 $I0f
111. $81 00 $25 00 $106
Oh1co,
40, I30 50 36 60 I6f
Sacramento,
112, 22 50 6 50 29
Summit,
41,
MartiMz ,
49 00 16 00 Gt Eden,
113, 63 00 18 00 8I
42, I56 00 4I 00 197
Los Ar.ge/J;s,
9 00 3 00 12
114,
Mount -Zion,
43,
Hiram,
22 2ii 6 75 2t
117, 74 75. 19 25 94
Cbncorcl,
Mount Moriah, 44, 208 50 56 50 26f
119, I6 76 5 26 22
Glint.on,
45, 21 00 7 00 28
Crescent,
120, 281 26 61 75 293
Fide/,ity,
46, 21 75 7 25 st
Te:r.as,
38
I2I, 30 75 7 25
Ionic,
Michigan Oity, 47, 24
8
122, 38 50 9 50 .t8
Alamo,
50, 33 00 IO 00 43
ForbestotDn, ·
123, 's 3 75 17 25 81
Sotoyome ,
5I, 25 60 7 50 33
illinoisto um,
ThbteMountain,124, 40 25 12 75 53
55, 67 00 I8 00 75
Suisun,
126, 65 75 14 25 80
La Fayette,
56, 15 25 4 75 20
Volcano,
127, 115 75 28 25 144
Hermann ,
67, 146 25 42 75 lll9
Santa Rosa,
I28, 71 60 21 60 93
Visalia,
68, 140 60 38 50 I79
llnion,
129, 62 50 16 60 79
NioOlaUB,
Gra'Oel Range, 59, SI 75 8 26 40 Woodbridge, 131, 47 50 14 50 62
60, 30 00 8 00 38
. Plumas,
132, 15 00 5 00 20
8inceri.ty,
6I, I89 25 55 75 245
Live Oak,
9
6 75 2 25
133,
Yosemite ,
62,
'n,
<J.eo. WasMng
14 25 4 75 I9
134, 61 26 15 75 77
Vacaville,
64, S9 .00 11 00 50
Natoma,
135, 22 50 7 50 30
Valley,
66, 42 00 13 00 55
Amador,
136, 268 oo 89 00 357
Paci.fie,
66, 33 00 11 00 44
Forest,
139, 162 75 33 25 186
OrockeU,
Morning &ar, 68, 102 00 32 00 13' Ourtis,
140, 39 75 8 25 48
70, 84 50 26 50 Ill
EnJ,erpriae,
141, 18 00 6 00 24
Grafton,
Bear Mountain , 76, 35 60 10 50 46 Franklin ,
40 50 11 50 52
143,
77, 47 25 I5 76
63 Orler.tal,
Petaluma,
l«, 16S 25 45 75 209
78, 21 75 7 25 29
Oala'Oeras,
1'5, 30 75 8 25 39
Vitrullius,
79, 152 00 43 00 195
Humboldt,
146, 90 50 28 50 119
AbeU,
80, 35 25 11 75 47
lone,
147, i>7 00 18 00 75
Eel Bille!',
8I, 16 60 5 50 22
Yolo,
149, 56 00 16 00 72
Lassen,
83, 22 75 7 25 30
Rising .','lar,
150, 39 00 12 00 61
Molino,
84, 60 00 I8 00 78
Veaper,
151, 62 . 25 18 75 81
Palmyra ,
81,
Na'Oal,
133 25 30 75 I64
156, 66 76 19 25 86
Woodland,
88, 31 26 . 8 75 40
Quitman ,
158, 2!1 2.> 9 75 39
GibsomJi/le,
89, I2 00 4 00 I6
Rose's Bar,
160, I3 50 3 50 17
Pilot Fill,
91, 29 25 9 76 39
North Star,
161, 22 50 7 50 SO
Keystone ,
92,
.dcacia,
15 75 5 25 2I Harmony ,
164, 20 25. 6 75 27
93, 49 50 I6 50 66
Saint Helena,
166, I 93 50 54 50 248
lhcelsfor ,
95, 46 25 14 75 61
Henry Olay,
167, 71 00 19 00 90
Alameda ,
96, 48 50 15 50 64
Hotoarcl,
168, 60 75 17 25 78
San Mateo,
97, 28 .50 6 50 35
Jefferson ,
I69, 282 00 74 00 366
Mission,
98,
ilornitos ,
12 76 4 25 17 Elk Gro'Oe,
173, 30 25 9 75 40
99, 62 75 18 25
La Grange,
Al l>rytoum,
174, 16 75 4 25 21
Oampo Seco, 100, 17 26 5 75 23
175, 34 75 9 25 44
.Antioch,
lOI, 65 75 18 25 8"
Olay,
178, 102 2.; 25 75 128
Phomiz,
I02,
Manzani ta,
32 25 10 75 43
179, 5.l 75 16 25 71
Mendocino,
I03, 55 25 17 75 73
Orovil16,
180, 93 00 26 00 119
Arcturus ,
I04, 30 50 5 50 36
.Lmngto n,
·Russian River, 181, 40 00 10 00 50
I06, 70 00 19 00 89
.Arcata,
182, 32 00 10 00 .42
Meridtan ,
I08, 14 25 4 75 19
Owen,·
183, 27 2.5 6 75 34
Olear La.ke,
110,
Pajaro,
88 26 20 75 109
184, 18 oo 6 00 24
8ierra

Yuba,

oo

oo si

ValleJJ,

231

Grand Lorlge of Oa'li/ornia.

1895.]

Gen. Rep.
Tola!.
Name and No. Fnnd. J'nnd.
185, $27 75 f8 25 $36
OlaibOl'ne,
Evening &ar, 186, 33 50 9 50 43
187, 43 75 14 25 58
Kefth,
188, 227 76 68 25 2l'l6
Oakland,
Northern Light, 190, 39 75 12 25 52
191, 62 00 14 oo 76
Mari·n ,
Santa Barbara, 192, 6I 75 I7 25 79
I93, 56 75 15 25 72
Fernclale,
Mountain View;l94 , 45 75 10 25 56
195, 3,.. 75 11 25 46
Buckeye,
San Simeon, 196, 21 00 7 00 28
198, 49 75 13 25 63
Wilmingt on,
199, 45 50 ll 50 57
Hartley,
200, 71 25 18 75 90
Truckee,
201, 62 60 13 50 76
Sillley'Oil.le,
202, 260 00 77 00 337
Pentalpha,
203, 20 00 6 00 25
Oonfid.ence,
204, 68 75 22 25 91
Salinaa,
205, 41 00 12 00 53
Nl!l.01lille,
206, 51 75 lS 25 65
Stanislau s,
207, 21 50 . 5 50 27
Anaheim ,
208, 27 50 7 50 35
Rio V"urta,
King David's, 209, 70 50 22 00 93
2IO, 135 00 40 00 176
Friendsh ip,
211, 58 00 17 00 75
Sare Benito,
So. San Fran., 212, 108 00 25 00 133

tal
Rep.
Gen.
Name and No. J'nnd. Fund. To .
242, $51 75 $14 25 $66
Jlagnclia ,
243, 45 50 12 50 58
IIJucaJyptus,
244, 86 00 25 00 111
...f.lcatraz,
245, 53 50 14 60 68
Laurel,
246, . 80 50 20 50 101
Pomona,
247, 98 00 29 00 127
Jl'resno,
248, 21 75 7 25 29
Alturcu,
249, 10 50 3 50 U
Greenvil.le,
250, 28 50 9 50 38
Adin,
252, 37 76 10 25 48
Bodie,
253, 2S 25 7 75 31
Landmar k,
254, 51 75 I3 25 65
Beading,
41 00 12 00 53
255,
Welcome,
256, SS 75 8 25 47
. Lodi,
258, 18 00 6 00 24
Penrhyn ,
259, I06 25 30 75 137
Eoergree n,
KingSo>lomon'•,260, 229 25 58 75 288
261, S3 00 8 00 41
fuscan,
262, 31 75 10 25 42
Lompoo,
264, 56 00 15 00 71
Hesperia n,
7 75 · 40
261i, 32 25
Orland,
266, 41 25 8 75 50
North Eal/.,
IR 75 6 25 25
267,
GaU,
268, 76 25 19 75 ~!
Durant,
Olive Branch, 269, 80 25 23 75
SnowMou ntain,271 , 17 25 5 75 23

216, 169 75 45 25 215
Doric,
217, 43 50 13 50 57
Monterey ,
218, 37 25 10 75 48
Mosaic,
Speranza lt'na, 219. 85 00 22 00 107
220, 49 50 11 50 61
DO'Wney,
221, 28 75 9 25 38
Inyo,
222, 28 50 9 50 38
Granite,
224, 47 25 12 75 60
Bakersfie ld,
226, 82 75 22 25 106
JJrooklyn,
226, Sl 50 8 50 40.
Hayward ,
Contra Oosta, 227, 19 50 6 50 26
228, 31 50 9 60 41
Athens,
229, 55 oo I7 00 72
Solano,
North Butte, 230, 37 76 11 25 49

274, 19 50 G 50 ::
275, 37 26 8 75
Oakdale,
277, 48 2/i 1s 75 62
Selma,
_B'n Oalifomi a, 278, 229 00 65 0 0 294
279, 50 25 15 75 66
Har.f<Jf'd,
280, 30 75 10 25 41
Madera,
Mount Shaata, ·281, 36 50 7 60 44
282, 17 75 5 26 23
OaUayom i,
283, 38 50 8 50 37
South West,
284, 24 75 7 25 32
Tynan,
286, 21 00 7 00 :
San Miguel,
Paso Robles, 286, 38 50 11 50
Winnedu mah, 287, 24 75 7 25 32
288, 16 00 5 00 21
MaxuieU,

1

~·a!U::::~~·a, ;~!: l= ~~ ~: ~~ 1~ ~=~·

ia:~ille,

~~!: l!! ~~ ~~: l!!

...f.rTOyo,

::.e, ::

~~~'. ~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ Santa Paula, 291, ~50 ~00. 113! ~~00 6:3

233 ,
Oalistoga,
284,
Hope,
Surprise Valley,235,
Hill's Ferry, 236,
237,
Guadalup e,

34 50 11 50
33 75· 10 25
21 00 7 00
34 60 11 50
21 75 5 25

46

4'
28
48
27

292,
Los Gatos,
Orange Grove, 293,
294,
7Ta!ler,
MountJackllon, 295.

~Z:aaAna, ~:: !~ ~~ !! ~~ 1~ ~~~~~·

::

49 50 16 5IJ
13 75 4 25
17 25 4 75
47 25 10 75

~~ ! ~~ :
1

::

66
18
22
68

232

Proceedings of the
Gen.

Rep.

N&me and No. Fund. Fund. Total.
MokelumneHiU,298, $25 75 $6 25 $32
299,
Li"berty,
300,
Redlandil,
301,
Ontario,
Santa Lucia, 302,
303,
Portenille,
304,
ReedJ,ey,
305,
.Azusa,
306,
.Ashlar,
Santa Monica, 307,
Monrovia,
308, .
309,
Delano,
310,
Sisson,
311,
Hueneme,

43 25
84 50
43 50
31 50
48 50
24 50
84 50
27 75
45 00
40 25
19 50
21 75
24 50

8 75 52
20 50 105
13 60 67
7 50 39
11 50 60
6 50 31
8 50 48
7 25 35
13 00 58
10 75 51
5 50 25
6 25 28
5 50 30

[Oct. 9,

G<in. Bep.
Name and No. Fund. Fund. Total.
Loa Banos,
Blll, $23 76 $6 25 $30
Tehachapi,
313, 12 25 3 75 16
Temescal,
314, 18 25 5 75 24
NorlD<1lk,
315, 36 25 6 75 43
Sanger,
316, 47 25 8 75 56
Fallbrook,
317, 15 75 4 25 20
Emmanuel,
318, 22 50 4 50 27
Hollenbeck,
319, 113 50 22 50 136
South Gate,
320, 117 50 25 50 14S
.Aliaal,
321, 11 25 3 75 15
.Alhambra,
322, 42 75 6 25 49
Whittier,
U.D., 23 25 5 75 29
Corona,
U. D., 141 00 19 00 160
Oonsuelo,
U.D., 21 25 5 75 27

------ --

Making the total amounts of dues ••... . ...•. $15,595 25 $4,3116 00 Sl9,921 25
Your committee, from information furnished by the Grand Secretary and from
the foregoing tabulated statement, find a decidedly marked improvement in the
number of degrees conferred by the subordinate Lodges, and the consequent
increase in membership theuin during the. past year, as compared with the year
immediately preceding, and, from the showing made, the Grand Lodge has every
reason ·to congratulate itself upon the flourishing condition of the Craft in Cali·
fomia.
Your committee would again urge upon the Masters and Secretaries of subordinate Lodges the great importance of forwarding their returns within the time
prescribed and required by the Constitution, and also at the same time their dues
to the Grand Lodge. Each year, for several years past, your committee has
endeavored to impress upon the MASTERS of Lodges that, in a me.asure, responsibility for the strict observanoe of this rule rests upon them, and that it is their
duty as much, if not more, than that of their Secretaries, to see that the returns to
which they certify are not only correct as to the matters therein contained, but
that they are properly attested with the Lodge seal, and, further, to see that the
dues accompany the returns forwarded to the Grand Secretary. We are pleased
to report that a great improvement in this respect is shown during the year just
past, there being fifty.four delinquent Lodge.a as compared with seventy-two of the
preceding year ; but still the number of errors occurring in returns, inetancee of
the omission of signatures thereto, in some cases a failure to affix the seal of the
.Lodge to the returns, and neglect in forwarding the Grand Lodge dues until
reminders by the Grand Secretary were necessary, is so unreasonably large, that
in justice to the Grand Secretary, by reason of the unnecessary increaae in the
business of hie office occasioned thereby, your committee feel justified in again
oalling attention to these delinquencies, in the hope that great improvement in the
future will he made with referenoe to the errors to which attention is here called,
and we would again recommend the adoption of the same resolution presented last
year, as follows :Re10Zved, That the Grand Secretary he instructed, as soon as he shall forward
the blanks for the returns to the subordinate Lodges, to notify the Inei>ectors of
the several districts that he has so done, and that it shall then become the duty of
the said Inspectors to see to~it, as far aslliee in their power, that the l..odges comply
with the requirements of the'Oonstitution in this regard.

1895.]

Grand Lodge of OaUjor1Cia.

233

. .
d b the . Grand Secretary that forty-eight Paet
Your committee is mforme
·
d ance w"1th a former
. d d · Y th ast year I n accor
Masters of Lodges ha~e die . urmg ~~ b the ·Gra~d Lodge, memorial pages in
recom?1en;ation~ ~h1s :~~~t:v::::to no~ces of these of our deceased brethren
the prmte proc mge
h . I bo s on earth to the Supreme Grand Lodge
who have been called from t e1r a r
.
above.
.
.
.
f I constrained to compliment the Grand Secre·
Your committee, in closmg, ee
·
h"ch their duties
tary and his efficient assistant upon the able manner m w l
have been performed.
All which is respectfully submitted.
CoB.NELIUS WEt.LEB PENDLETON, }
ALEXANDER MUNROE WILLIAMS, Committee .
ROBERT AUGUSTUS LONG,
CHARLES L ENNIS,

Which report was concurred in, and t h e reso1u ti on and several
recommendat ions accompanyin g it were adopted.
The Grand ~ster appointed the following committee :Morris March Estee,
Nathaniel Greene Curtis,
On iUathof Past Grand Masters BelcMr and BrmDne: Hiram Newton RuckP_r,
{ .George Clement Perkms,
·
WilliamAbraha~ Davies

The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock to-morrow
moming.

BJ n Oitand ~odge.
:MORNING SESSION,

Thursday, October 10th, A. L. 5895 .

l

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
After" music by the choir, the minutes of the sessions of yesterday
were read and approved.
Bro. ANDREW MURRAY HENDRY, from the Committee on Credentials reported the following additional officers of ~odges and :Past
Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as being present im.d
entitled to seats, viz : from-

234

Proceedings of the

[Oct.. 10,

1895.]

en •· · · · ·

Ward~n;
Doric, • . •. .. . .. .. No. 216, .. j WILLIAM GLENN COPELAND, Senior
I HENRY WILLIAMSON, Junior Warden.
M. . I
o.au:,. · · ···· ·· . No. 218, .•.. JOHN C.rnn HAns, Senior Warden.

;
S~IWL Italiana, No. 219, . . j CARLO BALZARINI, Past Master
1 FIOR&NZO CAVAGNARO, Past Master.
Warden.
Ettcalypt tu,.. · ·:·No. 243, · · ·: WI~LIAM EDWARD RoWLANDI\, Senior
Master;
NEAL,
N
JHCatr@, ••... . . . No. 244, .. {WILLIA M WATERMA
CHARLll:S HENRY RRDINGTON, Past Master.
·
La
ttrel, ..• ····· ·· .No. 245, . ... Gll:ORG.11: W ORR, Master and Past Maste ~
Dttraii,t · . . . · ... . Nu.. 268, . ... BARZILLAI P BULL, Master.

Which. report was concurr ed in, and the brethre n therein named
were admitte d to seats.

To t/1£ M. ._ W. •• Grand Lodge of California, :of the Gra d
Your committe e, to whom was referred the Annual Report
the re rta of t~e
Lecturer , have carefully examined the same, together with
po
several Inspecto rs, and respectfu lly submit the following : those of
except
,
Districts
th ;he rer~:.o~ a~.tbe Inspecto rs of the thirty.ni ne
and
Ir • Ixtb and Twenty-s econd, have been duly' returned to
. e . econ •
the delin uente
from
beard
been
bas
Nothing
.
Lecturer
Grand
the
by
ved
rooeI
'
q
and no reasons have been given for their failure to report.
of
intereete
the
fo
labored
zealonsly
The Gra~~ _Lecturer has faithfully and
devoting his time
t~Isitmg many of .the ~d~s througho ut the State andservices.
That his
his
of
need
in
moat
D1stricts
outlyrng
the
to
an a n Ion

M:o::·

235

be justly proud ie
labors have produced results of which this Grand Lodge may
rial District visited;
evidence d by the very flattering reports from each Inspecto
command the entire
and it is to be regretted that this Grand JurisJict ion could not
year.
the
during
Lecturer
time of the Grand
hundred and
When we reflect that during the past year two thousand five
Lodges, and that our
twenty-t wo degrees have been conferred by the subordm ate
exists of having
net increase has been almo~t four hundred, we see the necessity
to the officers of
the ritualisti c work of the Order properly and thorough ly taught
intellige ntly conthe subordin ate Lodges, that the degrees may be carefully and
d upon the mind
ferred and the grand principle s of our Order firmly impresse

Nevada, ·• • · · · · · .No, 13, .•.. THOMAS Bll:Nl'ON GBA Y, Pa.st Master.
ative.
HOrlDaiian, • · ··· . No. 21, .... Gll:ORG.11: JOHNSON, _R epresent
Master.
P1111t
FULLER,
Bll:ECH
T.11:&B.11:
.•
...
39,
o.
Yuba, · · · ·······.N
Sacramento, ..... . No. 40, . . j WILLIAM FRll:Dll:RICK WIARD, Master;
l EDMUND C'lLll:Mll:NT ATKINSON, Past Master.
Master;
.
.
Mount Moriah, ••.. No. 44, ~ WILLIAM GORHAM DooLITTLB, Past
·1 THEODORE FROLICH, Past Master.
Warden.
Live Oak,···· ··· · No. 61, ·· .• WALTER GRISWOLD MANUEL, Junior
Master.
Past
and
Master
,
WARFORD
R
SYLVlllBTK
j
..
87,
Nawl, ... ... .... .. No.
'
EMONS, Junior Warden
l CHARLBB
.
..
.
<h .
01li.lle, ......... No. 103, .: . . ISAAOUPHAM, Pa.st Master.
and p M •
Eden, · · · · · · · · · · · ·No. 113, · .•. HERCULES ANOR.11: MORRIN• Master
. as.er.
'fie
p
t
M
Past
aci ,.. · · ···· ··.No. 136, .. •. JOSEPH PBT.11:R Tllll:ANOR'
BB&
AW
te
• · · · · ··•···· . No. 146, . .. . JAMll:B MILTON MANNON, -Pa.st M as r.
Jr,
t
M
Past
ON
RoBRRTB
STERLING
Pll:TER
.
.
.
eyBi.<J'M, ·· · ·· ··. No. 161,.
as er.
,
· S
.E
M t er.
Past
NUTTING
W1LBRR
CHARLllS
...•
186,
No.
...
.
tar,
wming
as
,
M4 .
ann, · • · ·······No . 191, .. . . WILLIAM ELLIOTT, Past Master.
SanB ito
· N o. 211, . . .. Ro11INSON RuCKLIDG:e:, Past Maater.

Bro. WILLIAM SEWALL W~LB, f~om the special commit tee on
:the Report of the Grand Lecture r, present ed the followin g report

Grand Loilge of Oalifornia.

..

of the candidat e.
y requisite
We ba,..e carefully considere d this inatter, and we deem it absolutel
the entire time of
for the best interests of Masonry in this Grand Jurisdict ion that
n. This question
the Grand Lecturer should be devnted to the work of instructio
Lodge, but has not
bas for several years occupied the attention of the Grand
demands . The first
received the attention and deliberat ion which its importan ce
conferrin g a degree
impressio ns of a candidat e are apt to be lasting, and if officers
ible, the candidat e
unintellig
and
uncertain
work,
the
in
t
are careless, not proficien
from which he may
is not impreBBed, bis hopes are not realized, ·he receives a shock
that the Grand
not recover, and the Craft suffers in conseque nce. We belie,..e
belong to the
should
time
entire
his
at
labor-th
his
for
paid
be
Lecturer should
be allowed
should
year
per
dollars
hundred
Grand Lodge; and we think that twelve
be shown by bis
him as a lllllary and such necessary traveling expenses as may
year; that he should
itemized accounts to have been expended by him during the
M&89nic District
each
visit
and
rs,
Inspecto
the
all
and
visit and · instruct each
may have ite juat
during the year, dividing bis time amonir them, so that each
proportio n commens urate with its needs.
or Paet Master
fhe recomme ndation as to the Inspecto rs selecting a Master
r Lodge is, we
"'hom he may find competen t as an authority in that particula
believe, good, and should be &dopted..
of this Grand
We also recomme nd that during each Annual Commun ication
the Grand Lecturer
Lodge that the three degrees of Masonry be exemplif ied by
him, for the purpose
and the Inspecto rs of the several Districts to be appointe d by
present.
officers
and
Masters
the
ng
in•tructi
of
d until he has
We believe and recomme nd that no Inspecto r should be appointe
tions i-n the same
received from the Grand Lecturer a certificat e as to bis quaJifica
form as is now prescribe d by the Grand Lodge for Masters- elect.
of the following
Your committe e would, therefore , recomme nd the &doption
resolutio ns : per annum
&solved, That the Grand Lecturer be allowed a salary of $1,200
and submitte d in an
him
by
paid
bee~
have
may
as
expenses
traveling
such
and
and that the entire
itemized account with his Annual Report to this Grand Lodge,
n.
time of such Grand Lecturer he devoted to the work of instructio
produces a eertificat e
Ruol,ved, That no Inspecto r shall be appointe d until he
from the Grand Lecturer that he is properly qualified.
All which ia respectfu lly submitte d.
WILLIAM .SEWALL WELLS, }
· •
,JoHN ALLISON BEOB:WITH,
·MICHAEL DAVID LININGEB, OOftl.ut &
J AMllS Louts BARHAM,

Which was referred to the Commi ttee on Finance .

236

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 10,

Bro. NATHANIEL GB&ENE CURTIS, from the Committ ee on Jurisprudenc e, presente d the followin g reports :To the M. •• W. •. G'l'Ohld, Lodge of California :and
your committee have had under considerat ion the matter~ referred to then1
respectful ly report : In the matter of the petition of the Lodge La Vallee de Franu, in Los Angeles,
e on
asking recognition by this Grand Lodge, was placed before the Committe
of the
Jurisprud ence last year, and Past Grand Master BELCHER, then chairman
nces
committeP, carefully examined the history of said Lodge and the circumsta
that we
under which It was created and found, aa a reeult of his investigat ion,
Masonic
cannot recognize or enter into negotiationa with said Lodge or have any
course
the
suggested
also
he
a.nd
;
conditiona
existing
under
them
with
e
intercours
Masonic
to be pursued by said Lodge by which its members might be placed in
standing.
The report was received and adopted by the Grand Lodge at ita last session.
be final
[See printed proceedings of 1894, pages 786-g7-88.] Thia we believe to
and concluai ve, and that no further action is necessary.
Relative to Memorial Observances at Washingto n, D. C., in 1899.
The Grand Secretary baa placed before us the following communic ation :
.
"WASHINGTON MKHORJAL 0BSll:RVANCEB."
DENVER, COLORADO, March 15, 1895.
·. W. ·.
DEAR Sm AND BROTHER :-At the Annual Grand Communi cation of the M.
a recomGrand ~dge of Colorado, A. F. and A. M., 1893, in accordance with
e
mendation by the M. •• W. ·. Grand Master, the following report from the Committe
on Jurisprud ence was adopted, viz.:the sngges. The Standing Comll!ittee on Juri~prudence, to which waa referred reepectful
ly
Master,
t10na and r~ommendat.10ns of the Most Woi:shipfnl Grand memorial
observance
proper
a
to
reports that 1t baa considered that part relatmg
l Brother GEORGE WASHINGTON,
of .the Centennia l of the death of Worshipfu1799.
·
which took place on the 14th day of'Decem ber,
and characters of
The committee believes that public recognition of the services
others particular ly
of
the great and good has a salutary influence upon the lives etforta
a~d ennobling
the_young, stimulatin g them to emulation , exalting their ownW ASHINGTO
N's death
their characters . A due observance of the Centennia l of
of, his virtues and in
woul~ revive public rntereat in, and dissemina te knowledge the
foundation~ of our
the _pioneer work of the fathers of the Republic who laid,
national governme nt.
under
We are taught, as Masons, to be true to the governme nt of the country
should be true to the
w~ic~ we live_; and in a .hr<?ader sense than mere !oyalty, we
into the
pnnciples which underlie its ay.• tem. These prmciples were instilled
perseverance
American heart by fortitude, prudence, justice, hardship, adversity
same source~
unselfishness and toil, and the best manhood to-day comes from th~ those
who are
of ~t~ength. As citiz«_Jn• we cannot too often present this truth toand
we cannot
stnvmg ~or fame and mfluence through paths which are less noble;
was
whom
on
Mason
present it through a grander character than that Master
of, "First in War First in Peace and First in the
bestowed the loving title
'
Hearta of his Countrym en."
directed to
Tens of thousands of good men have had their favorable attention
worthy of
Masonry because it embraced principles an<l truths which were deemed
in bis day
so
was
it
the loyalty of GEORGE W ABHil"GTON, and we are proud that
'
and ie so still.
the
for
unite
to
like
will
States
United
the
of
Lodgee
We believe the Grand
will be
purp~se of doing h_onor to hie memory, and that ·the proposition thereto
to
especially_ appropr!a te from the Grand Lodge of the State which was admitted
ry of the independe nce of the
the AlllE'rtcan U mon on the hundredth anniversa
colonies, which WABB;INGTON did so much to secure.

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Ualifornia.

2b7

the
We therefore approve the Grand Master's suggestion and recommen d
al
th
to
t
b"
h
.
following, viz.:e sever
That a committee of three be appomted . to present t e su 1ec
.
.
.
:requeet
and
States,
Umted
the
of
Grand Mastera and Grand J..odgea
?n,
First. The appointm ent of a committee of one from ~ach Grand Jurtsd1ct1
with one alternate, to serve through all the arrangeme nta, m order to save confusion
d
by annuRl changes.
by c_orrespon. ·
Second. That the committee from this Grand Lodge arrange
of ~aid
ence with the committee s from sister Grand Lodges for a place of meetmg
Grand Comm~mcacommittee at ao~e early day subsequen t to the next Annual
·
tion of each of said Grand Lodges.
suggest
Third. That the committee from this Grand Lodgt;l be recommended to
W ASHJNGTON at Mo~nt
of
tom~
the
at
addressee
memorial services and suitable
with
Vernon, at which all the Grand Mastera of the United States be present,
.
.
their subordina te officers.an d other members.
detail
m
report
Jf>dges
Fourth. That the committee representi ng th~ Grand
for
their recommendations for the memorial to theu respective Grand. Lodges .
.
approval before the same be actuallv undertake n.
of their
Because of the number of Grand Lodges, and the irregular penoda at
least,
or four years,
Annual Corn munications this process will consume threefinal
nts.
arraniteme
the
perfect
to
which will leave barely t~o years in which
and
The foregoing report was adopted, and R. W. WOODBURY, W. D. WRIGHT
Colorado, to pr~se~t
W. D. TODD were appointed , on behalf of the Grand Lodge of
Jur1sd1cthe matter to other Grand Lodges and Grand Mastera of other Grand
'
tions.
is
The able and patriotic report of the Jurisprud ence Committe e of Colorado
and
calculated to arouse the patriotism of the American people and awaken
ns
strengthen the fraternal love of every Masonic heart. The hallowed associatio
of the
that cluster around the memory of GEORGE WASHINGTON, the great Captain
n~e of a
age, who led our armies to victory and secured the liberty .and ind~pende
s
free, happy and prosperous people, inspires the pure•t, holiest, loft1es~ sentiment
of which the human heart is sueceptible.
that
We believe that a proper obnervance of the centennia l of the death of
.
.
.
.
great and good Mason is desirable.
tion
We regret that lack of time will not permit us to give that careful cons1dera
to the suggestions and recommen dations contained in the communication that its
. to ~ur
great importanc e demands, and therefore recommend that it be referred
cat10n
successors, and that they be requested to report at our next Annual Commun1
that final action may be taken by this Grand Lodge.
Relative to Represent atives near other Grand Lodges.
the
The following commumc ation, addressed to the Grand Secretary, was, by
:
us
o
t
referred
Grand Lodge,
LOUISVILLE, KY., Novembe r 12, 1894.
, the ~rand
Under instructio ns of the Most Worshipf ul Bro. H_. H. HOLEMAN
t~e action of
Master of Masons in Kentucky , it becomes my duty to mform you ?fat1on,
holden
Oommumc
the Grand Lodge of Kentucky at its ninety-fift h Annual
STATOS, th.en
in the city of Louisville, October 16th, 18th, 1894. -¥· ·. W. ·.. Bro.
RepreGrand Master, at the opening of the Grand Lodge, m refemng to Grand
f
h
11entatives, said : o
~ystel!'
the w ole
In this connection I desire to express my contempt for bas
a
d1ssens!on
B?Wn
but
good,
Grand Represent atives. It bas accomplished. no
relations
among the jurisdictio ns, in some instances havmg broke~ up the friendlyA system
between Grand Lodges and disturbed the peaceful re!at10ns of oth~rs.
good 18 onl>: fit to be
which breeds contention and bitterneea and accomph~he~ ~o!1a
abolished the
cast to the moles and the bats. · Not a few Grand Jur1sd1ct10 have
.. I see no re!LBon
system and withdraw n the commissions. of the. Represent atives
hes
why Kentucky should longer encumber itself with the system which accomplis

238

. Proce«linga of the

[Oct. 10,

so little good, but is fraul!'ht only with troubles and vexations to all those who have
to do with it. I recommend that the system be abolished so far ae it relates to the
Grand Lodge of Kentucky.
·
The Grand J.JOdge adopted the following resolutions : Buoltlfd,, That Reg_ulations Noe. 454, 455, 4!'J6and 457, be repealed. [Relating
to Grand Representatives.]
·
·
.Buolmi, ~hat all commissions to Representatives of the Grand Lodj!'e of Kentucky or [b:v] ite Grand Master to Repreeentati vee of the Grand TA>dl{e of Kentucky
near their (hand Lodges, be and the same are hereby revoked.
Ruolved, That the Grand Master be directed to req ueet the revocation of all
commiesione to Representatives of other Grand Lodges near the Grand Lodge of
Kentucky.
All commiesions of Grand Repreeentativee, iesued by authority of the Grand
Lodge of Kentucky, having been revoked by its action, the Grand Master respectfully req':1ee.ts that the commiesions accrediting a Representative from your Grand
Lodge be withdrawn, as suggested by the action herein cited.
M. •. W. •. Bro. HoLKMAN, our Grand Master, has instructed me to assure you
tha~ the Grand Lodge and the Craft in Kentucky entertain the most cordial good
feelmg and fraterna~ regard for the brethren of your juried.iction, and for your
Grand Lodge and ite excellent officers. He trusts that thui brotherly love may
ever continue without interruption.
Fraternally thine,

H.B. GRANT,
Grand &creta;ry.
The following communication in reference to the Bllme subject matter hae been
placed before us by the Grand Master :-

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LoDGE 011' WYOMING, A. F. AND A. M.
.
. LABAMIK, WYOMING, November 26, 1894.
To tM M. ': W. ·. GJ'and. Maater, A. F. and A. M., Stau of California ; Under mettuct10ne of our Grand Lodge, you are hereby notified that owing to
strained relations between Grand Jurisdictions, having been caused by matters
connected with the Grand Representative system, and the further fact that ea.id
eyetem ie of doubtful utility and of no material benefit, the Grand Lodge of Wyoming, at the last Annual Communication thereof, held September 11, 1894 adopted
the following resolution:'
Retfolved, That the third standing resolution of th~s Grand Lodge be and the
eam~ is he.reby.repealed, an~ t~e. Grand Representative eyetem be and ie hereby
aboh•hed Iii this Grand Jurisdiction.
The adoption of said resolution revokes all commissions of Grand Representatives issued under and by virtue of said third standing resolution and by authority
of the Grand Lodge of Wyoming. Therefore you, as M. '. W. ·• Grand Master are
most respectfully reguested to withdraw the commission of the Grand Repreee'ntative of your Grand Lodge near the Grand I.JOdge of Wyoming.
·
~t is the desire o~ o!lr Grand I.JOdge that t~e same cordial relations and good
feeling heretofore e11eting between our reepecti ve Grand Jurisdictions ehi>ll continue unabated.
Fraternally yours,
J. T . HOLLIDAY,
Grand Mruf.l:r.

We are glad to be able to inform our brethren of Kentucky and Wyoming that
we have experienced no "trouble" or "vexation " by adopting the Grand Repreeentativeeystem; but, upon the contrary, our intercourse with the Representatives
of other Grand Bodies has been of the most cordial and· fraternal character. Yet
we do not believe that the system is nece88ary to maintain the comity existing
between the Grand Lodges. Still we like the system and would regret to see it
abolished.
We respectfully recommend that the co01mie•ione accrediting Representatives
from this Grand I.JOd11e to the Grand Lodges of Kentucky and Wyoming, by their
request, be withdrawn.

1895.]

Grand Lodge of California•

239

Relative to the United Grand Lodge of Victoria.
Tbe Grand Secretary has placed before us a communication from the Grand
Secretary of that Grand Lodge, in which he save : "I am directed again to write
and renew the application for recognition and exch..nge of Representatives from
the United Grand Lodge of Victoria, and the hope that the same cordial recognition and mutual exchange of Representatives may be accorded to the United
Grand Lodge of Victoria as have been by our sister Grand Lodges in Australia."
It has been the settled policy of this Grand Lodga in reference to new Grand
I.JOdgee to ascertain what wae the condition of Masomy in the territory over which
the new Grand Lodge claim~ jurisdiction; how many I.JOdges there were there and
under what obedience they held ; how many of them joined in the establishment
of thii new Grand Lodge, and, if less than all joined, under what obedience those not
joining hold ; whether the new Grand Lodge has been recognized by the Grand
I.JOdges by which its constituents were originally chii.rtered ; what proceedings were
had and taken at the Convention looking to ite organization, and what claim of
jurisdiction it makes, and also a copy of ite Constitution. In regard to these
matters we have no information.
We therefore recommend that the Grand Secretary be requested to ask that
Grand ·L odge to furnish ue with the nece88ary information ae above eet forth.
With the hope that that information will be furnished, we recommend that no
further action be taken at this time.
A proposition hae been made by ihttnmlle.I.JOdge, No. 249, to consolidate with
Sincerity Lodge, No. 132.
The provision of the Constitution which relates to the consolidation of Lodges,
(see Section 11, Article II, Part III), provides that "two or more Lodiree located
near each other may consolidate into one upon such terms as way be agreed upon
by themselves; but of such proposed consolidation the members of each Lodge
shall have at least three months notice before the stated meeting at which such
proposition is to be acted upon, and shall require the assent in writmg of at least
three-fourths of all the members of •uch Lod1te to adopt such proposal for consolidation."
So far. as the proceedings in Greenville Lodge are shown there is no record that
the requisite three months' notice was given to the members of that I.JOdge, although
there ie an instrument attached which shows that eleven members out of the fourteen consent to the consolidation.
Upon the part of Sincerity I.JOdge, No. 132, the record shows that the Worship·
ful Master notified the members that at the stated meeting in September, 1894, the
proposed consolidation would come up for final action; that tha proposal for conaolidation was signed by twelve out of the fourteen members who were within
reach; that upon a vote being taken there were six ayes and one no; while the roll
ahowe there are twenty members of such Lodge.
.
Thus it will be seen that in the attempted consolidation there is a total absence
of about all of the constitutional requirements to effect the object intended.
The consolidation must be effected by three-fourths of all the members of each
Lodge, given in writing, and three months' notice previous to the dtated meeting at
which the proposition is to be acted upon.
·
The action of the Lodge is not sufficient compliance with the Constitution governing this proceedinj!'.

240

Proce,edings of the

fOct. 1<1,

There have been referred to your committee the several dispellllations which
have been ieeued by the Grand M&11ter during the preceding year. Of these several
dispensations there were twenty-three issued ; ten of them were for the re-h&lloting
of applicants ; eleven for holding a special election ; one to.ballot for an application
without reference to a committee, and one for the reception of a petition for membership of a person belonging.to the United States Navy.
These ~re matters purely within the discretion of. the Grand Master, and hie
action is final.
We have examined the papers and find them in proper form. and recommend
that the action of the Grand Ma.star be approved.
Respectfully submitted.
NATHANIEL GREENE 0uRTI81
WILEY JAl'll:BS TINNIN,
Committtt.
HIRAM NEWTON RUCKER,
WILLIAM JOIDiBTON,
ALVAH RUllBELL CONKLIN,

!

All which reports were concurred in, and the several recommendations accompanying them were adopted.

Grand Lodge of Cal,ifornia.

1895.]

241

Bro. CHARLES LEWIS PATTON, from the Committee on Finances,
·
presented the following reports : To the M. '. W. •• Grand Lodge of California.:your committee, to whom wa.s referred the resolu~iOll of Bro. RALl'H Low,ll,
providing for the payment to the .Boa.rd of Relief of San J 0110 from the funds of
this Grand Lodge the sum of $180 for the support of the widow and children of our
late Bro. JOHN CHAPMAN, of EAcurial Lodge, No. 7, Virginia City, N11~ada, report
that the Boa.rd of Relief of San Jose baa not complied witb tbe resolution of this
Grar.d Lodge of 1894 requiring each .Board of Relief to levy a per ca.pita tax of
eight cents per member per month upon all the Lodges in their jurie<Jiction. Had
this resolution been oomplied with the San Jose Boa.rd of Relief would have
received from its Lodges $340, and ae the only payment.;! made by that Board
amountAd to $47, except the money expended in this caee, your ,c!JJ[lmittee feel
that if the required a.mount had been collected this Board would have been fully
able to care for this case, as well as those reported, and' still have monev in its
treasury.
Your oommittee would, therefoi:e, recommend that eaid reBolution be not
adopted.

Bro. FRANK CHARLES WoLP, from the Committee on Charters, presented the following reports :To t/1£ M, •• W. ·. Grand Lodge of CaliflYT"nia :Your Committee on Charters report as follows :We have carefully examined the records and papers of Cor<m<i, Lodge;U. D.
at Pasadena, Cal. The petition ·for dispensation has been accompanied by the
dimits of the petitioners, and the proper recommendations and certificates.
The record book bas been kept in conformity with our regulations, and in a
very neat and creditable manner; the various papers are all on file and correct;
the Lodge is free from debt; there are seventy.six members on the roll ; they
have conferred eighty-four degrees since receiving their dispensation, and your
committee offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:lluoWed, Tbat'a charter be granted C<YT'<ma Lodge, 10e&ted at Pasadena, in the
County of Loe Angeles, Cal.
Your committee, to whom was referred that portion of the · Grand Master's
address relative to Fall River Lodge, No. 270, report as follows:This Lodge is in arrears for Grand Lodge dues ; its Secretary stating that it
has been impossible to collect the same, and that the Lodge has not held a meeting
for a year and a half. This being the case, the Lodge is pra.cticaJly dead. · We
therefore offer the following r~eolution :Resolved, That the charter of FaJ,l JI.Wei' Lodge, No. 270, be and is hereby
revoked.
Respectfully submitted.
FRANK CHABLll:B W OLJ!',
FRANK SAVBINUS RICE,
Commitke.
J AOOB SUBJ!'AOB, .
Gll:OBGB CHABLBB RAu,
GBOBGE WOODBURN NIOOL,

!

Both which were concurred in and the .resolutions accompanying
them were adopted.

Your committee would recommend that Marin Lodge, No. 191, be donated the
sum of two hundred and sixty dollars from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be
paid in weekly installments of five dollars to the Master of Marin Lodge, No. 191,
for the support and maintenance of Bro. J. E . BALL, a member of Samaritan
Lodge, No. 98, New Jersey, now residing in San Rafael. This donation is made
on behalf of the Grand Lodge of New Jersey, and will doubtless be repaid by eaid
Grand Lodge, as heretofore.
Your committee, to whom was referred that portion of the Grand Secretary's
Report, relative to the printing of two hundred and fifty additional copies of the
Proceedings of this Grand Lodge, offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption : Resolved, That the Grand Secretary be empowered to have priJlted twenty-two
hundred and fifty copies of ''Proceedings of the Grand Lodize of California " for
the year 1895.
Your committee, to whom was referred that portion of the Grand Master's
Address reoommendilll\' th.at the appropriation for our vener11.ble Brother, Past
Grand Master, JOHN A. TUTT, be continued, offer ,the following resolution and
.
recommend its adoption : RUJJlved, That the aum of four hundred and eighty dollars be and it ~s hereby
appropriated from the general fund of title Grand Lodge, to be paid, under the
direction of the Grand Master, to Paet Grand Master JOHN A. TUTT, in monthly
installments of forty dollars, for the year CQmme11cing November let, 1895.
Your committee, to whom was reforred that portion of the repor.t of the Board
of Trustees of the Widows' and Orphans' Home relating to the finances of said
Board, beg leave to submit the report of the expert employed by this oommittee,
which shows that all receipts and disbursements of said Boa.rd during the past year
have been properly accounted for, and beg leave to concur in hie report.

16

242

Proceedi'l1gs of tlie

[Oct. 10,

EXPERT'S RKPORT.

To tM Finance Committe of tM M. •. W.-. Grand Lodge of Califryrnw, :-

I beg leave to submit that I have this day examined the books nod vouchers of
the Secretary of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home for the past Masonic
year, and I find cash in hands of the Grand Treasurer, a• follows, viz. : 1894.
Aug. let. 'l'o balance on harid . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .............. $ 913 12
Received from Ophir Lodge, No. 33 ..•...........••. S 43 50
Received from Inyo Lodge, No. 221. ............. . 25 00
Received from La Granqe Lodge, No. 99.... .. ... .... 100 00
Received from Vacaville Lodge, No. 134;and Chapter,
No. 28, 0. E. S ........ ............... . . . ... . 85 10
Rent of property . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 459 65
Receipts .......... . ..... . .................. .

1895.)

243

Grand Lodge of California.

'fo the Board of Relief of :'an Francisco . . .............. $4,000 00
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles .. ....... ..... ...... 1,500 00
To the Board of Relief of Oakland. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • 350 00
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 250 00
To the Board of Relief of Stockton • . • • . . • . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . • 100 00
To the Board of Relief of San Diego . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 100 00
All which is respectfully submitted.
JAOOB.HABT NEJT,
lixNBY HAY KNAPP,
CHARLBS LEWIS p A'l'l'ON,
GKORGE PBNLINGTON,
EDWARI> SHARP ALBNTINE,

!

Committee.

v

Which report was amended so as to read :To the Board of Relief of San Diego . .... ................ .. $250 00

713 25

Sl,626 37
Disbursed for Secretary's salary and traveling expenses
of Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . ...... .

And, as thus amended, was concurred in. and the recommendations
accompanying it were adopted.

26.5 02

Balance in hands of Treasurer .......... . .
$1,361 35
Your Secretary has a complete set of books showing what amount each Lodge
has subscribed and paid.
Trial balance taken, showing that everything is correct, and I so report.
L. WADHAM,

Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.
JACOB HART NBFI!',
} .
HKNRY HAY KNAPP,
C'HABLKB LEWI!! PA'l'TON,
Oomrn.iteu.
GEORGE P&NLINGTCJN,
EDWARD SHARP VALENTIN&,

All which reports were concurred in, and the resolutions accom·
panying them were adopted.
Bro. CHARLES LEWIS P4TT0N, from the Committee on Finances,
presented the following report :1.o lh6 M.-. W.-. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:-

Your committee have examined the reports of the Boards of Relief of San
Francisco, Oakland, Los Angeles, Sacramento, San Diego and Stockton. W e
believe the funds have been judiciously expended, great care having been taken by
the several Boards in the disbursempnts of the different amounts. We have
listened to the requests of the representatives of the several Boards, and would
have been pleased to make the recommendations reque•ted, but we are reminded
that the funds of this Grand Lodge will not justify the same.
We make the fullowii'g recommendations with the explicit and positive nnder·
standing that those Boarrls who, have not complied with the dirPCtion of this G•and
Lodge, ~u collect the per capita tax of eight cents per member, shall do so dnring
the <Joming year, in addition to the several amounts to which they are now delinquent:-

Bro. BENJAMIN AB.MER presented the following resolution : Buolved, That when a candidate does not appear for initiation within one year
from date of his election, or, having taken his first or first and second degrees, does
not nppear to take his remaining degree or degrees within a year's time after
receiving due notification from the Secretary, that such candidate be dropped from
the 'list and his initiation fee forfeited.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Bro. JAKES WRIGHT ANDERSON presented th~ following resolution:
Beaolved, That no non-affiliated Mason, whose <limit at the time of his application for affiliation to any Lodge in this jurisdiction shall exceed the period of three
calendar years from the date of the issuance thereof, shall be entitled to any
pecuniary benefits from the Lodge to which he may make application for affiliation,
until he shall have been elected to membership therein.

Which was also referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
By request of the Grand Master, and, on behalf of the Grand Lodge,
Past Grand Master WILLIAM ABBAHAllil DAVIES, presented Past Grand
Master 0RlllE, with a beautiful Past Grand Master's Jewel. In making the presentation, Bro. DAVIES spoke as follows:MosT WoBsmPFUL BRoTtlER ORME •..,....

I am called upon by the Grand M1111ter to perform for him a most pleasing
duty, and but few words will be necessary on my part to explain to the brethren
of the Grand Lodge the purpose of my address to you.
You have been with us and of us, Brother ORME, for a period of twenty-five
years, and during all that time your association with the Fraternity under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California has been particularly close and confidential ; her interests have been your interests, and her successful progress the

244

Proceedings qf tlte

[Oct. 10,

glory of your Masonic life. In whatever duties engaged, or to whatever part of
the work Y,OU have been assigned, your service hRs e.lways been faithful and loyal,
and your duties conscientiously performed, until, as fitting rewnd for your faithful exemplification of our sublime principles, you were crowned with supreme honors, and, as the choice of your brethren, ptoclaimed Grand MastE\r of Masons in
California.
" There 's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Rough hew them how we wlll." .
How little you thought, my dear brother, when lying upon the battle-field of
Melvern Hill, as you believed, done with thfa world's pleasures and sorrows, until
revived by the welcome rain and discovered by friends, you were restored to life
and its duties, that there was reserved for you a Masonic miBBionary work ID California. But, my dear brother, a quarter of a century has passed, you have discharged the duties ·a88igned you in the various department.a of Masonry with skill
and ability, and as an evidence of the appreciation of your work by the Grand
Lodge of California and their acknowledj!'ment of the same, I now invest you
with this jewel, and assure you that it is accorupanie:l. by the respect and esteem
of this Grand body.
I also persone.lly assure you, Brother ORMK, that the love and affection of the
brethren, with whom you have been so long associated, will follow you in your
future walks in life, and in their behalf, I express the wish that your days in tbe
land may be extended beyond the allotted time, and you be vouchsafed many yl'ars
in which to wear this jewel with credit to yourself and honor to the great Fratarnity which it represe.nts.

To which Pe.st Grand Master ORME responded e.s follows : M." W. ·. GRAND MASTER, OFFIOERS
AND BRETHREN OF Tt!E GRAND LoDGE : ! cannot command words to express as I would, at this time, my appreciation
of the many honors previously bestowed upon .me, and especially for this beautiful
jewel, which commem'?rates my service as Grand Ma•ter.
Let me thank you, Past Grand Master DAVIES, for the kindly and fraternal
manner in which you bave made mention of my humble efforts, exerted for the
welfare and intere•ts of this Grand Lodite, and for the whole fraternity of our
loved State of California.
I will not dwell upon the grand principles of brotherly love; liberality and
charity, which are the foundations of our beloved Society. They are as familiar
as the ritual of our work, and are acknowleged by us all.
Having enj •yed the highest distinction which Masonry bestows in ourjurisdic·
tion, I crave a moment's indulgence to say that I have not been actuated by personal ambition for promotion which usualll:" inspires human efforts- at any rate in
other fields. . Probably it has not been within the experience of one in a hundred
of those here present, to have proper oecasion to use o~r in-and hailing siitn of distre88, or the words significant of the snmll. By the great tnRjority, they are
known only in the work of the Degree, and very few have seen or heard the same
outside the Lodge-room. Perhaps I am thP. only one here to testify to the effil-acy
of those words in saving the lifo of him who uttered them ; otherwise I shouM
not be here to'-day. ~his is a simple explanation. of any unusual zeal which I
may have manifested in our Ordn.
It is unnecessary for me to say that this testime>nial will be gratefully and
affectionately treasured by me, and be transmitted tu my descendant• for the par-

1895.J

Gra11,d .Lo<.lge of California.

245

ticular reason mentioned, to say nothing of the ve.lue generally set upon the everyday benefits of our Fraternity. You way expect me never t o lose interest or
abate effort in furthering the well being of Freemasonry.
With respect to what I l)ave been able to accomplish for the good of Masonry,
especially in the po<ition of Grana Master, to which you ca~led me,. let me say
that it could not have been done without the hearty co-operation of the brethren,
u.nd especially of those in close relation 'a s officers of the Grand J.odg!l. For my
successors in office, I earnestly bespeak like support, and with this, look for corresponding results.
,
. .
It has been'my pleasure as well as duty, to attend the Annual Uommomcat1ons
of the Grand Lodj!'e, wit h scarcely any omissions, for more than twent y yean1.
The enjoyment of meeting, year by year, brethren and friends endeared by long
fraternal associat ions, has latterly· been saddened by missing the fam iliar forms of
those calle i hence to their rewards, while new faces appear as their successors. I
am thus reminded that the time is not far distant when my presence on these
scen•s must cease ; but while life endures, be assured that, if absent by reason of
years and infirmities, in spirit at least, I shall always Le with you.

On motion of Bro. EDWABD SWIFT WEST, Bro. JAMES WRIGHT AN·
DERSON we.s requested to submit a. proposition for the sale of Ander·
son's Me.sonic Manual to the Grand Lodge.
Bro. SAMUEL MANOBEBTER presented the. following resolution:Ruolved, Th•t hereafter all . Master Masons within \he jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of Ue.lifornia, within six mor.ths nfter taking the degree of Master
Mason, shall pass a satisfactory examination in open Lodge in the L ecture of that
Degree.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Lodge was then ce.lled off until one o'clock this after•
noon.

~n

<§tand ~odgr.
AFTERNOON SESSION,
}
Thursday, October 10th, A. L . 5895.

The Grand Lodge we.e called on e.t one o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The Grand Master ree.d the following communication to the Grand
Lodge:-

246

Proceedings of the

1895.J

[Oct. 10,

To tM M. •• W. ·.<hand Maater and Brethren
of t~ Grand Lodge, P. d: A ••'1£. of Calif1trnia :in a proper manner
It has been a matter of much concern to me, how I could
heartfel t thank& that
and
deep
the
and
tion
apprecia
d
profoun
my
you
~o
expre~a
Freemas onry, through
are w1t~11n ~e, for the manner in ~hie~ the instituti on of
ental in caring for an
the M. . W. · Grand Lodge of Cahfom1a, has been instrum
upon the mercies of th
orphan, aa I was at four years of age, cast by misfortu ne
e
.
world. I was too young at this time to compreh end the situation
being
was
and
had,
what
of
on
realizati
a
age,
'
As I approac hed a more matured
es of this beloved Order
done, dawned upon ~P, and as I grew in years the principl
I arrived at years of
when
thRt
so
mind,
my
upo~
d
mpresse
b~am~ more deeply_i
to become a
presume
I
can
mind,
my
to
itself
d
presente
d1scret1on the question
means of promoti n m
member of so grand an organiza tion, which has been the
g y
welfare to such an extent ?
the
fo~
188,
No.
Lodge,
Oaldand
ed
petition
I
end,
this
to
With a strong desire
the
year,
this
of
part
early
the
during
degrees of Masonry , and eubaequ enily,
· ·
now the suprem
degrees of Masonry were conferre d upon me, and I have
e pnvi.
·
lege nf addressi ng you ae brethren .
the brethren
F~r °!e to attempt to express my thanks and ~ppreciation for what
vears, in languag e that
of this Grand Lodge. have done fo~ me t~rough all these
realize that the brethren
would con~ey my feeling~, would b~ 1mpose1ble; but I can
the ee many years
during
me
for
carina
and
g
protectm
m
ental
who were matrum
.,
.
Relief and T tb M
were actuated by the eubhme principl es of Brother ly Love'
Y
ru.
·
·
f
up to the standard
lb
on y ope o. rec1proc~tmg this matchle ss kindness , ie by living
me.
you have done unto
of the teachmg e of this Order, and by doing unto others ae
·
RElepectfully and fraterna lly,
WILCOX.
CAREY
WALTER

Which was ordered placed on file.
Grand
This being the hour for the special order, as ordere d by the
EUGEN E NELSON
Bro.
W.·.
the
,
Orator
Grand
the
ay,
Lodge yesterd
the Grand Lod
DEUPR EY, deliver ed the Arinual Oration before
ge, as
·
follows :MosT WORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER,
GRAND OFFICERS .AND BRJCTBREN : was done by our
When we unfold ~he leaves of hidtory ~ determi ne what
the centurie s that have
in
contact
m
came
they
whom
with
those
and
s
ancestor
on the part of the many
gone, we find that the~e has always been an Parneat desire
tion upon all subjects
an~ a select few to build up the mind with extende d informa
Turn, if you will, to the
which ha~e appeare d to be worthy of deep investig ation.
day, but through many
pages which unfold to us that Rome was not built in a
minds of those who were
decade9 of constan t and untiring effort, to develop the
.
subjects , patrons, tribunes or monarch s.
For the broaden ing of their
s.
numerou
were
Romana
the
among
. Wise men
t demand to educate the
constan
in
were
colleges
and
schools
intellect ual research ,
the requirem ents of a
boy, the youth, the man-to educate him to be equal to
him to travel.
f~rceful manhoo d in whateve r direction hie talents might cause
investig ation of
daily
the
from
who
demand
in
ever
were
ers
At Athena, law.mak
of the Grecian
ment
advance
the
to
nce
subjects which were of the utmost importa

'

Grand LuJge of California.

247

found; a LYCURGUS,
subjects and their neighbo rs. Among them a SOLON was
in the light of advance d
brought to imperi•h ahle fame; a PERICLES showed forth
thought to assist those around him and about them.
nations, the highest
From that period until the present day, in all civilized
the aim and ie the
educatio n, upon all practica l and aran<i topics, has been
of the others of civilambition of the citizens of several nations and the aubjech
h enlighte nment.
ized gov~rnments to claim the best, the. largest, the moat thoroug
ment of the mind have
By the ' e efforts, ever-rec urring contests in the develop
literatur e and the many
occurred ; so that now in science, in art, in mechani sm, in
be pointed to worthy of
can
s
example
shining
thereto,
d
ap(lflnde
are
branche s t.hat
accompl ished. Edubeen
has
that
progr~ss
great
enthnsia etic admirat ion for the
be develop ed a vast subcation, indeed, is a nece.asity to the end that there should
es pertaini ng thereto
ject, and to make those who are the followers of the principl
the informa tion that
on
ly
ab•olute
them
defend
and
maintain
capable, unaided , to
to battle with the logic
they acquire, and that they can acquire, to enter the arena
the reason of any opposing foroe.
mathem atics settled;
BACON says: " Historie s make men wise; pootry witty; the
to contend ."
able
rhetoric
and
logic
brave;
natural philosop hy deep; morals
upon their oars
Why, then, should those of the Masonic Order rest quietly
on and progress. Why
contenti
life,
of
seas
the
upon
d
launche
is
boat
their
when
us learninK upon every
fail to clothe their minds with strong, positive, impervio
speculat ive Mae~nry !
eymboliam and sentime nt which pertains to the details of
and on account of t-eing
Are we to leave it to a few who, perchan ce, ms.y by choice
to catch a glimpse
blessed with time from other thao businesa demand s require,
the propulsi on, the rise,
here Rnti there of the innermo st recesses of the history,
past, must comman d in
tbe capabili ties of the law which has comman ded in the
Mason's path in tracA
life.
Mason's
a
future
the
in
rule
shall
and
the present,
how to "do one unto
discover
to
where
place
the
ing the tree-blaz ing to best find
e of knowledge, and
another 8" ye would be done by" aud to be bathed in st!nbeam
in the east and set
rise
to
sun
the
causes
which
power,
ty
Almigh
the
to wo•ship
day.
of
light
the
makes
and
s
darknes
the
in the west, who controls
member ship of Free
Do you, my brethren , believe that during t.be past year, the
the Pacific, have given
and Accepte d Masons jn this 8tate, whose shores border on
which the impositi ons
that study which the tenets of ·t he Crnft have made, and
of the duties of one
ge
knowled
a
obtain
to
of the ancient forms insist upon,
which is positive ly
brother to a11otbr,r, at all times and under all circums tances,
, without makquestion
the
to
aloud
answer
an
giving
t
Withou
us?
incumb~nt 11pon
to rise to the
on
derelicti
for
ah~me
of
blush
ing an ~sertion that might cau•e the
d to make several
cheek of a brother on account of remissness, may I be permitte
.
practica l suggestions ?
the being of nature,
BAYARD TAYLOR has written that "knowle dge alone is
of primitiv e darknes s
giving a soul to her manifold features , leading through paths
truth."
of
s
footstep
the
as much attentio n
Have we ae member s of the Craft during the past vear given
ion of perman ent and
as the interests of our association demand ed to the acquisit
we, in a'i:iy measura valuable knowledge of the Masonic Order; that is to say, have
self-con gratulat ion,
own
our
for
or
others,
of
ation
consider
the
of
ble degree worthy
the l~ht for the
spread
to
us
permit
would
which
delved deeply for informa tion
interests of Freemas onry ?
the last few months,
These question s have come to me more impressi vely within
e to reii:iove
Univ,llra
the
of
ct
Archite
the
of
de~ree
the
during which it beGame

248

Proceem
/ngs ·of the
I

(Oot. 10,

from our midst Most Wo.rshipful Past Grand Master WILLIAM CaLDWKLL BBLCHBR.
Those who were acquainte d with the extent of his erudition in Masonic
law have
earneetly questioned themselve s as to who or how many of .the Craft, in
the jurisdiction of the State of California, can fill his place as an nd viser, as a judge,
as an
arbitrator upon questions of the most vital interest, not only to the Order
in this
jurisdictio n but throughou t its length and breadth in the universe. He who
must
fill ellch a plaoe must give the same extensive study, the same amount of
~bought,
the same abundanc e of conservati ve wisdom to the subject of most vital importanc
e
to ns all as the Past Grand Master, W. C. BELOHEB, did.
It is true that there are still among us giant intellects -an N. GBERNE CuBTIB,
au ATKINbON, a PKRKJNB, a JOHNSON, a PBTBIE, a WAGNRR, a TAYLORGrand
Masters to advise and direct among the many of the Past Grand Masters
who still
survive ; yet their years of life are being rapidly e.ddoo to, and the great machinery
performin g its mental and bodily work, wearing gradually away. When
they are
gone, to whom shall we turn for counsel in days of trial, in days of adversity,
in
days of s~rrow, which must come to the administr ation of all great institution
•, no
matter how strongly builded for gootl and humanitar ian a.ction? We must
needs
then ask the members of the Craft at large to give time and study and ·reflection
upon the great principles of Freemaso nry, not only that portion which is
found in
the Monitors for general direction, not in the words whic.h can only pass
from lip
to ear by one or by several who •hall be claimed to be and are fully equipped
and
authorized to lli ve the secret work to the several degrees. There is a foundation
deeper and stronger laid, upon which the structure of Freemasonry is
builded,
which we must dig around, examine and know every portion of, aud not
content
our3eJves to a material stone or a strong column of the huilding.
How many, may I ask, of those who.are now assembled as representa tives
of
the several Lodges throughou t the jurisdictio n of the State of California
now
as'lembled in Grand Lodge, who can tell me one of the ancient charges
and,ceremonies of this Masonic Order?
How many can discourse with ;iny learning or really any informatio n upon
any
canon?
Let us briefly and simply direct vou to give thought for the future of
these
matters of serious import if you have not considered it in the past.
THE CoNSTITUTION.-Wh ile there may be a select few who have taken the
time
and who have believed it to be a bounden duty to investigat e the subject
of mo~e
ancient learning of the M&aonic Craft, how many, can I ask, have studied
the
Constituti on, the organic law, upon which we are now clothed in authority
and by
and throll!lh which our privileires are ex11ounded? It is n t my desire to be
pessim0
istic or make any claim that it might be found that the number who have
information upon this subject are few . I do not wish to be peBBimistic in my fears
upon
this topic, yet I am constrained to believe that if we were convened in
cla.11s and
tbe number asked to rise who were familiar with this subject, that the
number
would not include every member of this great body, If it is possible that
there is
a lone representa tive to the Grand Lo life of Free and Accepted Masons
of the
State of California, unfamilia r ·with the. ConRtitutio1n, then let me impresR
upon
him, if I can, th~ necessity for immediate consultati on of . the foundatio n
law. It
certainly will not bring to him serious harm and may pos•ibly bring
about an
inviR"Oration of spirit and a conviction of mind that a little more knowledg
e is not
injurious, although it is often claimed that "a little learning is a dangeronR
thinit."
THE LAWS AND DEOIBIONB.-Since the organizati on of a separate jurisdictio
n
in this State many very important 11.uestions for final determina tion have
been

1895.]

'

'

Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornw.

249

submitted to the many Grand Masterd who have wiel~ed the gavel in
t~e Ea&t,
and to our Committe es on Jurisprud ence, Appeals and Gnevanc_es, and the
like, a~d
the m·a ny sessions of th" Grand Lodge in the past have, and this ~rand Lodg~
~ti!
now finally determine the vital propositions which have been submitted for
deculion.
The•e decisions have, from time to time, been passed:to print and are part
of the
Grand Records of the Grand Secretary .
.
The proceedings of each Grand Lodgo! have, from time to time, been P~
1'."
print and circulated . among the representa tives and subordinat:e Lodges
m this
State. Outside of the Committe e on Juri~prudence, the Oommitte e on
Appeals
· ancl Grievance s the Committe e on Finances, and the several Grand Masters,
Past
Grand Masters' and Acting Grancl Masters, I feel that I nm justified in
putting a
further question :.
. . .
How many are familiar with the laws and decisions of the Craft in
this JUn8·
diction? In gi ving an answer or in obtaining an answer, I would be
loath to
declare, "Do not all speak at once."
.
Deep down in the recesses of your minds and lo~al hearts lot _these ciuest~ons
filld a resting place where trouble will be created until i;roper replies can
be given
and until those, at least who are now pre•ent, can truthfully s~y that by
t~e ~nd
of next year they can truthfully say, "I know more of t~e duties, of the
~mdmg
principles, of the truths upon which Freemasonry hqs existed, does now exist
and
.we h~pe shall have it• existence in the great futu•e."
.
I have been very much impressed with some thoughts of Most Worshipfu
l
Grand Master J OHN S. D.\VIDBON of the Grand Lodge of Georgia, expressed
by
him October 31, 1893. He says: "In the Straits of Magellan there is said
~be
a postotfice, the must remarkabl e in the world. It is simply a pain~ cask,
cha1~ed
by stror:g cables to tbe rocks, so that it Boats upon the ~ater11, r1s10~ and
fallrng
with the waves of the restless sea. No appointed custodian controls it;
no forms
6x:oo by law are used for the receivin!!" and depositing of its mail; no
officer places
on its contents the official stamp of governme nt; no carriers pass to and
from the
land wlth the burdens of joy and sorrow which are bound daily through this
great
land from ocean to ocean ; no rushing trains speeding like the very wind take
for it
the me88 ages it contains, and yet, without control, without supervisio n, free
t.o •train
its chains in storms or to float peacefully upon the billows of a placid ocean,
it never
fails of its object. The rocks of the tidal shore are its guardians ; the
seafaring
men, often rude and reckless, treat it with the tenderness of a woman
; as each
ship passes by its speed i• slackened , its boat i• lower.,d, and manned b!
rugged
men, is driven to its side. Strong hands quickly •eek its contents, and. takmg
what
may belong to them . deposit those they them•elve s would send to distant
shores
for lo"Jed ones who for anxious days look for some meBBage of the absent,
and
bearing their own remembra nces on hoard, bless it with more .th.an sailor
ferv.or.
To defend it they would quickly risk limb and life, and yet it is only a
~oatmg
cask in a waste of waters. Do you see any parallel between the laws of this
cask,
thus situated · thus protected and thus serving mankind and the institution
to
'
which you belong!
Let us pause and consider what is Freemasonry '· s·imp1.V an
inetmmen t for the good of others. How is it held by the human race !
Only by
the strong chains of brotherly love. What !ioes it bear wilhin it? Nothing
but
the messages which tell of man's plans and purposes, hopes, and striving to be
bet~,
an.I to be a model in all things here that he may enjoy and share a more
sublime
association h•reafter, his experienc e while made up of •uccess and~failure,
teaching
him a belief which makes him stronger when he fails and. humbler when
he snc·
ceeds. How is the institutio n. protected ! By each member with the
solemn

250

Proceedings_of the

[Oct. 10,

o.blig&tion engraven on his Roul and its important words and counsels lingering in
his ear. Who guards it from destruction? The millions of brave hearts wherever
beating, can be heard on every land on which the sunshine re•ts, and who have
takPn from its store of treadure the many messages which are enclosed. What is
the value of Masonry! It has no splendid collection of jewels ; it has no well-tilled
coffers ; it has no mines of exhaustless wealth; it has nothing but a mission-a
mission that teaches mankind the la.son of obedience, the law of submission to
authority, of compa~ion for the fallen, for the tempted, for the erring, of devotion
to God, of love for God, and at last that there is 'a bright light no darkness can
exist.' It is but a floating cask, save that its chain~ permit its jouruey everywhere."
.
In that very apt illustration, in those words of application be1mtifully spokan,
more is presented and said than volumes of discursiveness could really ac~omplish
in impressing the deep and telling truths of that Order founded upon the principle
so forcibly written in the Scripture : "These three, but the greatest of these is
charity." What are fhe chains which hold the cask which has placed within man's
reach messages of cheer, messages of hopes, messeges of consolation and messages
of happineos, when he has fully performed, or has in a great measure performed,
hia dutie1< as a Freemason. They are the knowledge we have, the knowledge we
must acquire, the knowledge we must possrss in order to hold this depository of
sweet words written by the members of our Craft in the past, recognized by the
members of our Craft in the present. If we will not h~ed the warninj!'S, not only of
the present, I.Jut the warnings of the measureless past that, in a few words, have
expre~ed "knowledge is power," and see to it that we follow this motto as the
guiding star for our actions in adding to, protecting and building up the Order, the
chains will soon be parted, the cask of messages float away soon to he battered by
the waves of opposition into pieces which will soon float here and there of no use
to man, of no use of any kind, lost-utterly lost. It seems to me that these are
lessons of the hour, and we must not fail to grasp the opportunities which are given
us to know more, and, by knowing more, be armed against opposition, no matter
from what source it may come. .
It id not for OD!l who is appointed to the position of Grand Orator that he should
each year go over one beaten and hackneyed course of thought in detail, no matter
how eloquent the accomplishmen ts of the Order in the past, for it is your duty to
study, to learn what bas thus been accomplished. It appears to me that the duty,
as I understand it, of the one who fills the position of Grand Orator of any jurisdiction, is to call the attention of the members of the Masonic Order to any evils
which to him may seem to exist, and thus cause such evils to be destroved if possible, and if the evils are not ao immense as to him they may appear, still seri<ius
~arm is not accomplished, but good may come. If "e are to protect, if we are to
entrench ourselves bt>hind battlements that cannot he assailed when the foe
appro11-ches, we must be well armed, well clothed, well fed in knowledge, nnd why
should we not lie so armed, fed and clothed, for we only have to seek knowledge of
that splendid Institution created for charily which, by another, has been beautifully and truthfully said to be "Masonry-its laws are reason and equity ; its
principles benevolence and love; its religion purity and trnth ; its intention peace .
on earth ; and its dispositien, good will toward men.''
My remarks of to-day would simply exhort v•>u, be faithful to ourselves, be faithful to each other, be faithful, be true to the tenets and sublime teachings of the
Order, for the Masonry of Free and Accepted Masons must be perpetuated to the
last generation of earth, until there sh~ll be a grand and complete realizati!)n of the

1895.J

Grand Lodge of Oulifornia.

251

sublime truth-that God made mankind one mighty brotherhood, Himself their
Master and the world His Lodge.
.
.
· These ancient charges are necessarily brought to the mmd of every Maater
when installed ; a positive contract is made so clear, so well define_d, that the person honored by sel.,ction to fill the position in the East of the subordmate L?dge can
never claim that be has not understood, and if he bas failed to perform b1_s _whole
duty, be has committed so great a crime, th~t while ?rotbers may be wtlhng to
forgive that which the Omnipotent may forgive, knowmg ~he ~eakness of. man,
bow can we 0 verlook the gravity of the offense-the awful v10lat1on of a plam and
distinct promise, made solemnly in the presence of his brethren.
It will not be amiss to now direct your minds to the so~emn compact that h'."8
been made by 80 many, and which should never be broden in spirit, in word, or m
any element of faith.
The Master first agrees to be "a good man an<l true, ~nd strictly. to obey the
moral law." How extensive is the character of that prom1Re to be faithful, to ~
inviolably kept. No religion on earth could demand a purer man, a more poBl•
tive follower of the teachings of God, than he who keeps that agreement.
The Master again agrees "to he a peaceable citizen, and cheerfully to conform
to the laws of the country in which he resides." Again, he must be an honor to
the place of bis ahode, and one who strictly complies with the fullest demands of
the laws of his country.
•
Then, again, the promise is ghen "not to be concerned _i~ plots and consp1r·
acies against government, but patiently to submit to the dec1s10ns of the supreme
lpgislation." He is advised to be a patriot in the fullest sense.
..
·
He agrees "to p•y a proper respect to the ci~il magistrates.' to work diligently,
live chastely, and to act honorably unto all men.' What promise of more eleph~nt­
ine character could be exacted than this to make a man all the law would desire,
all that the law must demand.
Now comes a fifth contract. The Master agrees " to hold in veneration the
original rule• and patrons of Freemasonry and their regular succedBors, supr~me
and subordinate, according to their station, and submit to the awards a~d l~g1sla­
tion of brethren when conven•rl, in every case consistent with the Constttut.ionsof
the Fraternity.'; How can this covenant be safely fulfilled, if there is lack of
knowledge on the part of the one who may take that charge of the ~ers an?
patrons of Freema<onry, or their regular successors, supreme and subordmate. if
he is ignorant of the awards and resolutions of hie brethren, when c?nve~~· as
being consistent with the Constitutions of the Fraternity. Knowledge is pos1~1vel!
insisted upon. To these subjects, I wish most to call your Parnest atten.t10n, .1f
not for present action or immediate consideration, that there shall be no fa1lnre m
the future, or at any time when any dewand uf an urgent character ~s made for
the utmost learning upon these subjects.
.
The Master agrees "to avoid private piques and quarrels, and to guard agamst
intemperance and excesses; .to be cautious in carriall6 and beha~ior, courteous to
his brethren, and faithful to his Lodge; to discountenance all dissenters fr?m the
organization of Freemasonry ; to promote the general good of the Fratermty; to
cultivate the social virtues and to propagate the knowledge of art." How can he
complete these promises, ~nless he is a man among men-among_ his fellows. in
Masonry, with the highest appreciation of every claim made ?~n him, and ;'h1~h
he must meet-education in the Craft, education in all its pnnc1ples, education m
all duties must must have been at his hand, and opportuniti,.,s offered must have
been embracP<l to the highest degrP.e. A promise is then required of that homage

252

Proceeditngs of t!te

[Oc,t. 10,

tu the Grand Master, fur the time being, of his officers, when duly installed,
to st~ictly conform t" every edict of the Grand Lodge in general aeeembly of Masons,
that is not subservient to the principles and groundwor k of Freemas.onr y. How
is he to know what every edict of the Grand Lodge in general assembly of Maaons
is? How is he to know what is or is not subservient to the principles and
ground,vor k of Freemason ry, unless he has sought knowledge in these directions nut only sought, but has obtained it.
He is further required to admit that it is not io the power of any body of men
to make invasion in the landmarks of Freemnson ry. How many of those honored
to be chosen, and who hold in their grasp the terrible power of the Master, can tell
us what the landmarkij of Freetnl'Sonry are, or when an invasion commences, or
when it ~ode? Th~ landmarks of Freemason ry are distinct but to those who have
an interest: there must be a fixing ,.f the points in their minds and in their understanding- ..·hat the landmarks are, and how many they consist of.
A promise is made • f regular attendance on committees and conventions of
Grand Bodies, upon receiving proper notice; to pay attention to all the duti~s of
Freemasons in convenient cases. Again, what are those duties? If it is little
reflected upon, the duties are unknown, and the inability to pay attention to them,
or any of them, is t1>0 plain a fault to be commented upon.
Still more is asked •,f the Master to perform-t hat is to see that no Lodge
shall be founded without permission of Grand Lodge; that no countenanc e
shall be given to any such Lod~e, or any per~on clandestine ly initiated therein,
berng contrary to the ancient chal"ge& of the Craft. How many of you now here
can. say to me what act, what wurd, what deed would be, or is contrary, to the
ancient charges of the Craft, unless you k11ow those ancient charges? Do you
know them? Have you studied them? Have you weighed them carefully in your
mind, and sifted them as to the meaning of every word? Have you understood all
that is meant, all that is dt manderl by those charg'!s ?
Furthei:, we are informed that it ia th~ duty of the Ma,,;ter to see that no person can be regularly made a Mason, or initiated a member of a regular Lodge,
without previous notice and due inquiry into character, and that no visitor shall
be admitted into the Lodge without due examinatio n, and producing such vouchers
of their having been initiated into a regular Lodge. The Master must have such
education in the learning of the Craft that lie can say that the examinatio n and
that the proper vouchers of initiation have been submitted.
How many of the Inspectors of the several districts of this jurisdiction can
report that P.ver.y Master in his district has been so fully equipped in the relation
of knowledge of those subjects insisted upon by the legiijlation of Free and Accepted Masons, of such a character that the party who is to act as :Master can
enumerate the same; that he submits to the charges, and can intelligentl y promise
to accept the legislation, and perform his duties thereunder, as Masters have sought
to have done in all ages.
It ma.y be nnkind to call up these ghosts of shortcomings. It may not be burdened with~the praise that might be tleeired should come from criticism in relation
to good work and the full performance of every duty. We ought not to avoid the
knowledge of our faults, but seek to ameud them, if faults we hiwe. If the inti·
mations that have been made are possible as to the lack of information µpon
important topics, which reach down to the foundation stoue.• of the ancient cha•ges
and govern that which is builded obovE', then all we can do is to cry "All Hail''
to the advanceme nt of knowledge of every subject which is most dear and most
material in our past, fur our present, and so pertinent to our perpetuatio n in the
future.

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

253

Let your Inspectors be selected from only the finest intellectual and diligent
material; from men who will love to lecture on themes of the Craft, who will be
ready to form schools iu each district for higher education in Freemason ry, where
essays, theses at the several Lodges may be heard every month of the Masonic
year.
A resolutiun, directing Inspectors to take such action as has been now suggested, would be well.
Let the intimations announced to-day take root in your minds, my beloved
brethren, and act accordingly. Then, indeed, sbi.ll we all feel proud of our legie- '
tors sent to Grand Lodge.
Then, indeed, will we proclaim as our view, and as a unit of view, "The true
purpo•e of education is to cherish and unfold. the seed of i~~ortality al~y
sown within us ; to develop to their fullest extent the capac1t1es of every kmd
with which the God who made us has endowed us."

On motion of Bro. JAOOB VooRBANG.EB, it was ordered that the
thanks of the Grand Lodge be tendered to the Grand Orator for his
interestin g and eloquent address, and that he be requested to furnish
a copy thereof for publicatio n with its proceedin gs.
This being the hour fixed e.s a. speoie.l memorial service, to do honor
to the memory of Pe.st Grand Master BELOHEB, e.s ordered by the Grand
Lodge Tuesday morning. The service commenc ed with an invocutio n
by the Rev. JACOB VooBBANGEB, and a. chant (the Lord's Prayer) by
the choir.
The M... w.·. NATHANIEL GREENE CUBTIS then ad.dressed the Grand
Lodge, as follows : MosT WORSHIPF UL GRAND MASTER
AND BRETHREN OF 'l'HE GRAND LODGE:~

It hath pleased the Supreme Ruler of the Universe in His infinite wisdom to
call our beloved Past Grand Master, WILL:LAM l.JALDWBLL BELCHER, from hiR lai;Jors
here on earth to that Celestial Grand Lodge where the weary, toil-worn craftsman,
will find eternal rest. On the morning of the first of September, in this city, the
Angel of Death cast the dark shadow of its wings over his earthly tenement and
laid its icy hand upon his great warm heart, and his immortal spirit winged its
flight to that God who gave, it, 1here to dwell forever in eternal rest.
When the sad tidings of hie death was flashed along the wires, on hill-top and
mountain, in valley and callon1 in city and hamlet, it cast a deep gloom and profound sorrow all over the land. He was widely known and everywhere universally
beloved and respected. I am glad that I am here to-day to offer my humble lrihute
of love and esteem to the memory of our deceased brother. His pathway all aloIJg
the journey of life was a track of Light, where we may walk with safety, emulate
his noble achievemen ts and feel the inspiration of his intrepidity. He was wise in
counsel, bold in a~tion and fearless in debate. Conscious of the rectitude of his
own intentions, he was ever ready to grant to others the same honesty of purpose
that he claimed for himself. He was a profound juriRt, learned in the science and
ethics of the civil law, and by his scholarly attainment s, his unflinching integrity
and unyielding fidelity to every trust reposed in him he left the impreSjl of his
genius upon the jurispruden ce of his State.

254

Proceedings ~f the

[Oct. 10,

He was as gentle as a woman and as ~ileless as a child, yet firm and unyielding
in defense of honor and justice. He was kind, noble and generous, an accomplished
Freemason and a Christian gentleman. His heart and his sympathy went out to
suffering humanity in every form. 'lbe anguiRb of the widow and the crieo of the
orphan were soothed and busb~d by his unosteotatious charity. The poor, home·
lees, houselese wanderer never appealed to him in vain.
"How many a poor ooe•e· blessing went
With thee beneath the low green tent
Whose curtain never outward swings ! "
He loved his brethren of the mystic t.ie with fraternal tenderness and solicitudet
and by his uniform courtesy and kindness he won their confidence and their love,
His memory will remain forever enshrined in their hearts and bedewed with their
tears.
For three years he was our Grand Master and for twenty-eight years Chairman
of the Committee on Maoooic Jurisprudence, and during all these years he worked
faithfully, diligently and intelligently for the welfare of the Craft. He was vigilant
in guiding our legislation and zealous in framing and construing our laws, preserving our ancient landm•rks and our traditions, and by his superior attainments '
constantly adding beauty and dignity to our Masonic li~eratum. For thirty-five
years his presence in this Grand Lodge has been a benediction. He has gone from
us forever: We no longer see the form and face of the brother we so much loved.
We no longer bear bis voice imparting wisdom and counsel. We can scarcely
realize the fact that WILLIAM CALDWELL BELCHER i~ dead. If there is aught of
anxiety existing between the Ii ving and the dead the spirit of Bro. BELCHER looks
down upon his brethren asaembled here to-day with infinite tenderness and love.
We can feel that indefinable mysterious something we know not of and yet
"No voice is heard, no Sign is made,
No step i~ on the conscious floor!
Yet ],ove will dream, and Faith will trust,
'!'hat somehow, somewhere, meet we must."
Sleep on, great heart, safe in your immortality. With a finn reliance in that
Divine Providence ever ruling over the destinies of men and of nations, and with
an abidiol( faith in the wisdom, goodne•e and mercy of God, we believe our beloved
brother has been called to .a bright deli.verance, a glorious redemption.
" Alas ! for him who never sees
The stars shine through his cypress trees !
Who, hopeles•, lays his dead away,
Nor looks to ~ee the breaking day
Across the mournful marbles play I
Who hath not learned, in hours oHaith,
The truth to flesh and sense unknown,
That Life is ever lord of Death,
And Love can never lose its OWB ! "

The W.". SAMUEL DAVID MAYER, Grand Organist for the pa.st
quarter of a century, e.nd an old time friend of Bro. BELCHER, assisted
by the choir, sang the.t beautiful and e.pproprie.te hymn, " Good Night,
I am Going Home."
The M. ·. W. ·• MoRRIS MARCH EsTEE spoke e.s follows :MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER:~
When Grand Secretary ABELL died, our late distinguished brother, Past
Grand Master BELCHER, said to me that it would be worse than folly for any

1895.]

Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

255

Mason living in this jurisdiction to pronounce a eulogy at hiR funeral ; that no one
could do justice to the great life work which had distinguished Bro. ABELL; the
splendor of his Masonic achievements, the work he had done for the Order, the
purity of his purposes, reached beyond the limits of the voice of any living Mason~
And to-day, Most Worshipful Grand Master, as we gather for the last time a.round
the bier of our departed brother, it seems to me that there are few, if any of us,
who can fully or fitly speak at Bro. BELCHER's funeral. It i~ most true he is dead
in the flesh, but the genial warmth and the beautiful character of his spiritual life
cannot and will not die. He went down in a ripe old age. ·He ha.G lived more
than the three score years and t en allotted to man, but the whole of his life was
devoted to his fellow beings. Qld as he was, he yet seemed to us to live in the
spring-time of youth. Many of us had known him for over a third of a century,
and to us he always seemed young. The same benignant countenance, the same
lofty, erect carriage, the same geniality of feature and wonderful intellectuality of
character, remained with him through every period of his life.
I can see him now as he used to pass up the main hall to his seat in the East,
where, as Chairman. of the Committee on Juri•prudeoce, he did M asonic duty.
His deci•ioos while on thnt committee form distinguished landmarks in the Masonic
law of California, and they will be referred to by our Masonic brethren for all time
to come.
Bear in mind, my brothers, that he was a distinguished and illustrious Mason
in this jurisdiction when at least one-half of the members now present were not
born. Bear in miod, also, the long period of his Masonic labors, his devotion to
our Order, his dignity of manner, and you cannot and would not, if you could,
forget the man. It should be our hope, our ambition, that our lives will be as full
of fn1itioo as was his ; t hat they shall be as ample in goodne~s, as wise in action as
was his. If so, the story.of our existence will be a benediction to the Order and we
shall not have lived in vain. He fought the good tight. With us he bas finished
hiR course, but he has left behind him something we should all emulate as an
example and follow as a guide. We will remember him for what he bas done and
we will carry through life the recollection of his goodneM
s and greatness. I once
heard a very distinguished and lovable woman say of him, "I am proud of Judge
BELCHER." I ventured to ask her the reason, and she answered, "He was brave
enough never to marry." "Why, madam," I said to her, "you are a wife and a
mother; why do you say that? " And she answered, "He is one of the few men
whose hearts are too great for any one woman to monopolize; he is intended for
all mankind." And so he was.
I once heard him say to a friend who wished to join a particular churob, that
he waR pleB!!ed to have him do so, but as for him he said he felt that creed or sect
might narrow his field for good. That he felt as though the battle of life was not
fully fought unless he fought for all. He believed in humanity. He believed in
the brotnerhood of man, the fatherhood of God. He believed that the best way to
serve his fellow man was to dry the tears of the widow, to bury the dead and to
care for the orphan. Doiug tbeRe things, he thought he was accomplishing the
great purpose of life, and he was practicing that true religion which was taught by
Christ while on earth.
The story of his life can never be fully t old, for he was one of those few characters who did good in secret. Twice, when I was Grand Master, he volunteered
to go to some brother whom we both feared was going wrong, and each time his
persuasion tended to redeem that brother. He was not one of those who told the
•tory of his good deeds. He let not his right hand know what his left hand doeth.

256

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 10,

Hi! believed that the best monument a n.an can leave oobind him i• the love
which good meu and wom«:n bore for him. Mil wl\8 one of the few poeiti<e men
whom I have known who bad no enemies. No one knew better than the members
of this Grand Lodge, that be bad the courage of bis conviction•, and that he would
maintain tho•e convictions under all circumstan<;es, and yet it was done in such a
calm and dignified manner that he often persuaded, but never offended.
Most Wor11bipful Grand Ma&ter, Pa•t Grand Master BELCHKB did not live in
vain, His life was a useful and eventful one. He has left the result of his handiwork oobind him, and if we only profit by the teachings of bis life we, too, •hall
have accomplished something for our fellow-man.
In bidding farewell to our brother, we feel that be has but gone oofore, for
soon, very •oon, we are to follow ; and when we are called, may it be said of us, as
we can truly say of him, that be imperiled no interest, that be wron11ed no
man, that he lived but to do good, The seat he bas vacated none of us can fill.
But when we look upon the empty chair, we are reminded of him who will sit
there no longer, and whom we trust and believe now occupies a higher and a better
seat in the presence of One who presides alike over all of us.

Other tributes of affection were po.id to our lamented brother by
Bros. JACOB VooRSANGEB, EDWARD SWIFT WEST, EDWIN ALLEN s:imaHAN, CHARLES E. STONE and J urns MICHAEL ELLIS.
The services closed with prayer by the Rev. GEORGE EDWABD W ALX
and solemn music by the choir.
Bro. CHARLES LEWIS PATTON, from the Committee on Finances, presented the following r~ports : -

Grand LO<lge of Oalif<wni.a.

1895.J

EXPRRT'B RKPORT.
Tu the Finance Committee <1 the M. ·. W . ·. Grand Lodge of Cu.lif<YmW.-

Srna AND BBErHRXN :Herewith please find reP<>rt of my examination of the books and vouchers of
the Grand Secretary, GEOBGR JOHNSQ?i, and Grp.nd Tr~urer, El>WABD CoLEMAN.
I have carefully checked returns from all Lodges in the State received by your
Grand Secretary; compared etubs of i e.ceipte for money received from varioue
Lodges throughout the State, and I find all moneys accounted for as per cash books
just examined; that the same has been paid to Grand Treasurer, EDWARD COLEMAN,
88 per vouchers on tile in the Grand Secretary's office, covering the period of one
year, from August lat, 1894, to July 31st, 1895. I have also checked the vouchers
of tbe Grand Treasurer for disbursements made by him, and as per warrants drs.wn
on him by the Grand Secretary, during the past Masonic year. I find all vouchers
for moneys paid, as per cash books just examined, on file, properly numbered, in
perfect orJer.
My examination of the Treasurer's books and warrants, result as f~llows, viz:The Grand Tmiaurer, in u.ccount with the Grand Lodge ·of F . and A. M. of the Sto.U!
of CalifornW..
1894.
RECEIPTS.
July 31. To balance on band, .... . .... . . . ....... . .... .. _.. _... ..... $ 566 98
" cash received from Grand Secretary, credit of the General
· Fund, ... ·--· · -··---·-···-·· · · -- - · · - ·· · · -·· · -· - · ··- 18,968 50
" credit of Representative Fund,.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _.. _. _. 4,227 75
" one year's interest on Blue Lake Water Bonds, .. . __ .. _..
420 ()()
Total receipts, . ...... . . ...... . _.. . ..... . . .. .. .... ....

To the M.'. W.'. <Jru.nd Lodge of Oalifornia :Your committee, in accordance with a standing re11olntion, have employed an
upert to examine the hooks and accounts of the Grand $iloretary and Grand
Treasurer, and now beg leave to submit said exvert's report, and are pleased
to atatll that we have verified said report, and find it correct, and commend those
officers for the faithfui and efficient manner in which tb~y have performed .their
duties during the past year. We have examined the securities and counted the
money in the bands of tbe Grandi Treasurer, and find the same, as reported by him.
We woulil. also state thv.t the books of. both the Grand Treasurer and Grand
Secretary are kept in a neat aqd business-like manner. In the matter of balance
due from Pftst Grand Treasurer, NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING, Htis.f actory evid~nce has been produced to your ~mmittee, ebowing that the coupons of the Blue
Lakes Water Company's bonde, amountiug to two hundred and ten dollars, and
now the property of thie Grand Lodge, were cut off prior to the purchase of same
by the then Grand Treasurer. We find the correct amount due by the said NATHAN
Wx!ll'ON SPAULDING, to this Grand L odge, to be $282.50, and recommend that a
resonable time be allowed Bro. SPAULDING wherein to pay the same to the Grand
Treasurer. We have examined the bondR given by the Grand Treasurer and Grand
Secretary, and find them correct and approved by the Grand Master.

257

. .... _. . $24,188 23

DISBURSEMENTS.

Paid out, as per warrants drawn on me by the Grand Secretary, Nos. 1to143, both inclusive,. ... ... . . . . . . ... ... . . $18,213 29
Disbursed, as per Representative Fund pay roll book,....... 3,484 50
Total diebursements, .•. .. . . . . . .. . ... .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . _ .. .. . .. $21,697 79
Balanc:i on band August 1st, 1895, .. . . .. . . . . . .. .. ....... . _. _..... . . . .-$2,.485 44
After closing the books for the Masonic tiscal year, I checked the receipts of
money from August lat, 1895, to Octooor 3d, 1895, and I find the Grand Secretary
hae received from various Lodges throughout the State the sum of $19,944, of
which amount he has paid to the Grand Treasurer the sum of $19,944.
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer, October lid, 1895, viz.:To balance close of the year, . .. .. . . . ..... . . ..... . ......... . .. ... _. . . $ 2,485 44
" cash received from Grand Secretary, account of the present Masonic
year, •.•.. .. _.. __.. : ...... _. _.•.. . .. .. . .. . . .. . . _. .. . . . ..... 19,944 00
Total receipts, .................•........ . . . . ... . . .. .. . . .. $22,429 44
DISBURSED.

Paid out, as per warrants drawn on me by Grand Secretary, Nos. 1 to 17,
both numbers inclusive, .. ..... ... .. ... ....... . . . . . ... .• . . . . .... S 2,323 81
Balance on hand October 3d, 1891ii, ........ . . ......... . ........ $20,105 63

17

Proceedings of the

258

[Oct. 10,

In my last report I reported moneys still in the hands of Past Grand Treasurer
NATHAN WESTON Bl'AULDING, as follows, viz.:Wauants drawn, paid by Grantl. Secretary and not refunded by Spaulding, $642 68
Interest on .U. S. Bonds, ............. .. ................................ 39 82

1895.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

259

On motion of Bro. CHARLES E STONE, it was ordered that the sum
of $282.50 be charged to the account of Past Treasurer NATHAN WESTON
SPAULDING, in order to enable the Grand Treasurer to properly balance
his books.

Total,. . .. . .. • .. . .. .. . .. ..... ... ........... . ... .. .... . ........ $682 50
Since last session Bro. Sl'AULDING has paid,... .. . . . . . . ............ .... 400 00
Leaving still due, ...... ..... ... ... ... .......... : ......... . .... $282 50
Your Grand Treasurer will report fully regarding your Hall Stock and other
Bonds.
vouchers properly numbered and filed and
I am pleased to report that I find
everything correct.

au

Respectfully submitted.

Bro. THOMAS TREBIL WA.BLEY presented a resolution relative to an
appropriation to Valley Lodge, No. 135; which was referred to the
Committee on Finances.
The Grand Lodge was then oa.lled oft' until ten o'clock to-morrow
morning.

L . WADHAM,

.Accountant.
. Your committee have considered the report of the Committee on the Report of
the Grand Lecturer in reference to the advisability of paying a salary of $1,200
and expenses to that officer, and having him devote his entire time to the duties of
his oflk-e, beg.leave to report as follows: That from an examination of this report,
it is apparent that the present Grand Lecturer ha.a discharged his duties in a most
aatisfactorv manner, and the committee have no doubt that hereafter, as in the past,
it will be possible to secure able and efficient Grand Lecturers, who, having the
interest of the Craft at heart, will devote sufficient time to the office to discharge
its duties creditably under present conditions. W & also believe that it would be
unwjse, at this time, to increase the expense of the Grand Lodge in this direction.
We therefore recommend that no change be made in the remuneration of the Grand
Lecturer.
Your committee have bad under consideration the salaries of the oflicen of this
Grand Lodge, report the following and recommend its adoption :..:...
For salary of Grand Treasurer, .................. . .. . , ... .. ..... , . . . . $ 200 00
For salary of Grand Secretary,........ .. . . ......... ...... ............ 2,500 00
For salary of Assistant Grand Secretary,.... . .. . . . . .. .. . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. 600 00
For salary of Grand Organist, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
For salary of Grand Tyler,. ... ....................................... 100 00
For services of the Chairman of the Committee on Corr.espondence,. . . . . 250 00
For contingent expenses of Grand Master,. .. ... .. ... ... . . .. . ... .... .. . 300 00
For salary of Grand Lecturer, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... . .. .. . .. ......... . 500 00
For expenses of Grand Lecturer, in discharge of his office, not exc~eding. 300 00
50 00
For expert accountant for Finance Committee,. . . ..... ' .. . . ... ... . .. .. .
All which is respectfully submitted.
JAOOB HART NEFF,
}
HENRY HAY KNAl'l',
CHARLES L:&wrs PATTON,
Committee.
GEORGE PKNLINGTON,
EDWARD SHARP VAL!i:NTIN!i:,
•

All which reports were concurred in, and the recommendations·
accompanying them were adopted.

~ n ~rand ~odgt.
:M'onNING SESSION,
l
Friday, October 11th, A. L. 5895. )
The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
After music by the choir and prayer by the Grand Che.plain, the
Dlinutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and approved.
On motion of Bro. FRANCIS ELLSWORTH BAKER, General Regulation
No. 20 was suspended, e.nd the election of Grand Officers postponed
until eleven o'clock this forenoon.
Past Grand Master MoBBis MA.ROH ESTEE, from the Special Committee on the deaths of Past Grand Masters BBLOHER and BnoWNx, presented the following reports :To the M. ". W. ". <hand Lodge of Oaliforni,a, :Pa~t Grand Master WILLIAM CALDWELL BELOHER died in this city September
1st, 189/i, at the ad vanceJ age of seventy.four years. He was born at Stockbridge,
State of Vermont, December 12, 1820, graduated from the University of Vermont
in 1843, taught school in the Academy at Bridgeford, in the State of Vermont,
and at the ·Academy at Plattsburg, in the State of New York, for a number of
Years. He then studied law; and was admitted to the bar in Vermont in the year
1852.
He came to California in the spring of 1856, settled in Marysville, and commenced the practice of the law with his brother, Judge I. S. BBLOB:&R, under the

260

. Proceedings of the

[Oct. 11,

firm name of BELCHER & BELCHER. Subsequently he· removed to San Francisco,
and beca.me the lea.ding member of the law firm of MASTICK, BELCHER & MASTICK.
In Masonry, he has always been a conspicuous figure. He was Grand Master
of this Grand Lodge for the years 1862-3--4, and was Chairman of the Committee
on Masonic .Jurisprudence for more than twenty-eight years.
As a lawyer, he stood at the head of the profession. He was honest and capable. No one who knew him ever questioned his integrity; and no one who ever
practiced la.w with him doubted his eminent ability. He possessed to a high
degree the courage of his con victiona. In debate he was strong and convincing.
If in the wrong, he sought to be right. If right, he wa• fearless, and asserted
himself with all the vigor of his forceful manhood.
The gentleness of his disposition, the simplicity of his manners, added to his
tall, commanding person, made him at once a most conspicuous and most lovable
man. He combined in a high degree the opposite_qualities of goodness and greatness. His learning was as varied as it was profound. He seemed to grasp the
whole field of literature-not superficially, but thoroughly and exhaustively. He
was a linguist of more than common attainments, for he was both a Latin and
a French scholar, and was deeply versed in the literature of both tongues. He had
accumulated a large library of mi•cellaneous works, and they were selected with
rare judgment and perfect taste.
His mind was eminently judicial. He believed the law was intended only to
secure justi~e, and he thus became an eminent eqnity lawyer. He despised pretense, trickery and deception; beCl\UBe he was himself the soul of frankness and
honor. He was well versed in affairs, and had studied the political history of bis
country, and knew by heart the careers of our most distinguished pub~ic men,
although he avoided politics and refused public station. He was conspicuously
loyal to his co11Dtry, obedient to his God, and just to all men He possessed,
in a large d~, a sincere and hopeful religious sentiment, which with him
amounted to conviction. His was that religion which recognized broadly the
fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man. No sect could narrow bis conception of religious duty, or limit his love for his fellow-men.
He was the noblest of our Craft-the first Mason in our jurisdiction. For
more than thirty-five years he helped to build our Masonic structu,·e. Nor did he
toil in vain~ Behold the work of his wining hand, bis generous heart, his wise
head. But that band has now paused ; that heart is stilled; that bead is no longer
the storehouee of thought. And yet, in a loftier sense, he is not dead. The spirit
cannot die. His good deeds survive him, and they will be remembered while
truth and virtue and honor hold dominion among men. They will be remembered
by Masons so long as Masonry remains faithful to the great trust confided to its
keeping, and so long as justice and equality, liberty and law, control the conduct
and mark out the social and political action of American freemen.
Past Grand Master JOHN MILLS BROWNE died in Washington during the
last Masonic year. He was born in Hinsdale, New Hampshire, May 10, 1831,
was graduated from Harvard University in March, 1852, entered the service of
the United States as an Assistant Surgeon March 23, 1853, and continued in that
service until May 10, 1893, when he was retired.
He occupied many conspicuous positions in the branch of the service to which
he belonged, and for many years before his retirement was Surgeon-General of the
United States Navy. He was Surgeon of the "Kearsarge" in the memorable battle with the "Alabama."

1895.]

(}rand Lodge of Galif<Ymia.

261

In the Masonic Order he had filled every position of honor and trust. He was
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Masonry of this jti.riediction for the years
1875--0-7 and 8. He was a man of varied att..inments, and of a warm, ((enerous
and impulsive nature. In private life, h~ was kindly and affable; as a speaker,
.
he was eloquent and penmasive.
He was appointed Surgeon-General of the Navy by both Presidents CLEVELAND
and HARRISON, and conducted himself in that high office with rare wisdom. For
many years he was a conspicuous character in Washington, and to his last hours
poesessed, in an eminent degree, the confidence of the heads of the department to
which he was attached.
As a man, he was upright and honorable; as a Mason he stood at the bead of
our Order-one of its most distinguished characters, beloved by all who came in
contact with him.
Respectfully submitted:
}
MoBRIS MARCH EsTE&,
NATHANIEL GREENE CURTIS, .
Omnaitt«..
HIRAM NEWTON RUOKER,
·
WILLIAM ABRAHAM DAVIES,
GEORGE ULEMENT PERKINS,

All which was unanimously concurred in by a rising vote.
Bro. CHARLES E STONE presented the following preamble and
resolutions:To the M. •• W. ·• G1·and Ludge of Calif<Pnia :-

WHEREAS, The Gr,.nd Lodge bas been called during the past year, to mourn
the loss of some of its most illustrious, gifted and zealous memb!'.rs; the prominence
of the illustrious brethren named at the memorial exercises, held yesterday, should
noL cause us to forget others, who have for many years been with us in the work
in which we are engaged ; therefore, be it
Resolved, That in the death of Past Junior Gran cl Warden and Past Grand Orator, R." w. ·. MARCUS DERKHIEM BOBUCK, this Grand Lodge mourns the loss of an
active, zealous and gifted Mason - one whose presence at our annual meetings was
always welcome, as his absence at the present session is sincerely deplored.
Ruolved, That in honor of his memory, the name of Past .Junior Grand Warden
and Past Grand Orator MAROUS DERKHIEM BoRUCK be inscribed upon a mourning
page, .to be published in the proceedinics of the present session.

Which was concurred in, and the resolutions adopted.
Bro. NATHANIEL GREENE CURTIS, from the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following reports :To the M.·. W.'. Grand Lodge of Califqrnia :-

Relative to decisions upon questions of Masonic law, reported by the Most
'Vorsbipful Grand Master, which have been referred to your committee, we are
constrained to disagree with him in granting permission to Lodges to appear in the
regalia of the Order for the purpose of attending divine service. Brethren should
not appear in public clothed in regalia, except upon occasions which are Maaomc
and in attending funerals. We are of the opinion thatthe discretion uf the Grand
Master in grantinglsuch permission should not have been exercised.

262

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 11

The Grand Master received a number of communicntions from Masters of
Lodges, relating to the rights, etc., of dimitted Masons who apply for affiliation and
are rejected. In each case the Grand Master referrer! these anxious inquirers to
the constitutional provisions regulating the proposition · In most of the cases preaented to him the applicants had carried their dimits for from five to fifteen years
before presenting the same to any Lodge and applying for affiliation. To reach
the exigency of such cases, the Grand Master recommends that this Grand Lodge
amends the Constitution so as t o make it conform to the provision of the Constitution of New York, which provides that no dimit shall be granted to a brother until
he shall have first affiliated with another Lodge.
Yonr committee can see no reason for disturbing the terms of our Constitution
relating to this subject. It is sufficient to meet all qaestions which may arise.
We are of the opinion tliat the recommendation of the Grand Master should not
be concurred in.
Information was rAquested by Paaadena Lodge as to the obligation resting
upon the Lodge to contribute to the relief of the widow of a Mason who had resided
in Iowa, an,l who had been dead for forty vears, and who had been a non -affiliated
Mason for se\'en years prior to his death. This aged lady had removed from Iowa
to PasadP.na for the purpose of benefiting a son who was afBicted with consumption.
Had the former brother been alive and in the circumstances his widow is found, he
would not be entitled to aid, and certainly no greater rights can be poBBeBBed by
her. The Grand Master replied that the Lodge was under no obligation ·to make
the contribution. In this we think he was correct.

At the annual election for officers in Athens Lodge, No. 228, votes were cast by
members who were in arrears for dues, the votes were canvaSBed and the Master
declared the officers elected. Prior to the next stated meeting a brother insisted
that the Master should declare the election illegal.
The Grand Master decided the election must stand. In rendering his decision
the Grand Master makes use of the following language : "While it is true under
the provisions of Section 2, Article IX of the Uniform Code of By-laws of Lodges,
delinquents should not be permitted to vote, in this case delinquents having been
permitted to do 80 would not justify the Master in declaring the election illego.l."
In this connection, at least referring to the same subject, Woodland Lodge, No.
156, states that, "previous to voting the Master announced that brethren in arrears
for dues were not entitled to vote." There were twenty-six votes cast and only
twenty-two brethren present who had paid their dues. In view of these facts the
questions are asked: Was the election legal? Has the Lodge a right to install the
officers 80 elected!
In both cases the Grand Master decided that the elections must stand. Which
determination we think was correct.
It is true that no brother, who is in arrears for dues, is entitled to vote, yet, we
are of the opinion that, in permitting those who are in arrears to vote, the responsibility rests upon the Master solely, and his irregularity should not vitiate the
election. We, however, look upon it as a duty, for the benefit of Lodges, to say to
all Masters that th~y should not permit a brother to participate in an annual election unless he is clear of the books.

1895.J

Grand .Lodge of Oalifornia.

263

The son of the Secretary of a Lodge died and the father was without means to
bury his dead. The Master of the Lodge advanced the money to defray the
expenses of the funeral. The Lodge objected to reimbursing the Master for the
money thus advanced, for the reason that the Secretary had no claim against the
Lodge, and that the amount should be considered a loan upon the part of the
.
Master.
The Grand Master thought that this was a matter altogether proper for the
consideration of the Lodge; if its Secretary, or any other member, under the circumstancP.s stated, was unable to meet the necessary expenses of burying the child,
it was the duty of the Lodge. ,to help him, and it was the duty .of every member of
the Lodge to see that be received the neOOBBary aSBisbnr,e, That the action of the
MRSter was propPr, as the representative of the Lodge, in making the advance
when it was impracticable or inconvenient to call the Lodge together to act upon
the case, and that the Lodge should repay to the Master the money thus a~vanced.
If, however, the money was advanced as a loan, then the Lodge was under no
obligation to repay the amount.
Tbe position of the Grand Master is well faken upon both propositions. From
the statement of the matter we think the Master acted for the Lodge. Probably
the charitable instinct of the Master which prompted him to render the aid as he
did, was not strictiy in accordance with the practice of the Order, yet we should
remember that charity is one of the cardjnal principles of our Order, and that which
is done in the name of charity is blessed. The Master having rendered the relief
we think the Lodge should reimburse him.
The Trustees of Athens Lodge, No. 228, made a loan of the funds of the Lodge
to irresponsible persons, and which have resulted in its lose. The question is asked :
.
Are the Trustees responsible for the amount?
The Grand Master thought that if the Trustees exercised their best judgment
in making the loan, and acted in good faith, they incurred no liability. In other
words if the Trustees exercised that judgment which an ordinary, prudent business
man ,;.ould with ref'erence to his own affairs, that no liability would a_ttacb. We
think this is the law of the case briefly stated.
Question. Can the Tyler of a Lodge, he being a member in good standing,
debate and vote on questions before the Lodge!
The Grand Master said yes, and that it was the duty of the Master to relieve
him sufficiently to exercise the right.
We cannot see that the Tyler, becnuse he has taken upon himself the responsiNe
duties of that place, should have favors extended to him whereby he would be
released from his obligations as a member of the Lodge. It is not only the right
of the Tyler to exercise all the privileges of a member of the Lodge, but it is his
duty, as well as all mem hers of the Lodge, to participate in the transaction of the
Lodge'• business.
A person received the degrees of Masonry in an Eastern State some twenty
years ago, and shortly afterwards removed from the jurisdiction of his Lodge, and
was suspended for non-payment of dues. About fifteen years ago he came to California and had ever since resided here. After leaving the East he changed his
name. The Grand Ma~ter was g,sked if a Lodl!'e could receive a petition signed by

264

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 11,

the new name and confer on him the three degrees. The Grand Master answered
~o; that the candidate must place himself in standing, by either paying his dues,
or by having the same remitted by his Lodie, and secure a dimit therefrom. After
doing so, he should make application for membership in the manner provided for
in our Constitution, This, your committee thinks, is the correct procedure.
I

Charges were preferred against the Secretary of a Lodge, and the question Wf!oB
asked who should notify the members of the special meeting called to elect Commissioners?
•
The Grand Master replied that the Secretary should issue the notices, and act
in his official capacity until the Commissioners were elected; then he should be
temporarily suspended from office, and a Secretary pro tem. appointed to discharge
the duties of the office to the conclusion of the trial. The Secretary is not supposed
to know against whom the chargea are preferred.
Your committee layd this down al! the proper practice.

Question. Is it required that the Master-elect shall be qualified to give the
work and lecture of the Senior Deacon, to be entitled to be installed as Master?
The Grand Master thought not; so we think. Though we would suggest that
the Master should be sufficiently proficient in the work as an entirety to enable
him to instruct his officers, as well as to correct them as to any mistakes which they
might make.
A brother had for a numb<ir of years remained suspendtod for non-payment of
dues. He beciLme sick, and, thinking his life fast drawing to a close, expressed a
desire to be restored by his Lodge, that be might die a Mason in good standing.
The request was made known to his Lodge at the next stated meeting thereof,
when a brother moved that the delinquent's dues be remitted, and the motion was
carried without opposition. Prior to the next stated meeting, the Grand Master
was asked if, at that meeting, the vote by which the dues were remitted could be
reconsidered? He answered, No.
In another case, the question as to a reconsideration of the action of the Lodge
was referred to the Grand Master, as follows :"A brother was suspended for non-payment of dues at the stated meeting in
December, 1894, the Lodge rafusing to grant him further time. At the stated
meeting in January, 1895, a brother, who felt aggrieved at the action of the Lodge,
made the statement in open Lodge, ' That he had seen the Grand· Master, and had
talked the . matter over with him, and that the Grand Master would very likely
order us to rescind our action, or he would take our charter.' Upon this statement
being made, a member made a motion to rescind the action of the Lodge. and to
remit the dues of the brother to January let, 1895, Rtating 'that if we had to reinstate the brother, we had better do it voluntarily than to be ordered to do so by
the Grand Master, or !Ose our charter.' The motion was carried, and the brother
was reinstated. Soon after this action was had, the Master of the Lodge called
on the Grand Master and stated that by reason of such action the harmony of the
Lodge had been disturbed," and asked his advice as to the best way to proceed,
with a view of restoring harmony. The Grand Master assured the Master that
the statement made as above quoted as coming from him was incorrect. The
Grand Master stated to the Master that tbe·suspension of the brother was a mat-

1895.J

Grand, Lod,ge of Oaliforni.a.

265

ter with which the Lodge had a perfect right to deal, and that he did not thin~ be
bad any right to interfere. The Master then asked, 'Can our Lodge reconsider
the vote by which the brother'~ dues were remitted?' .The Grand ~aster .answ~red
that the Lodge, having acted unier a misrepresentation of facts, its action 1111ght
be reconsidered."
The action of the Grand Master in both propositions was correct.
In the first proposition, under all rules, the motion to reconsider would rome ~oo
late ; and again, the action of the Lodge was in the dispensation. of a char1ty
which was commendable. Further, the action of the Lodge created, ~r r~tber
restored the brother to a new status in the Lodge, and conferred upon h1~ rights
of which he could not be deprived onlv by his own act in causing a forfeiture, or
by due process of law.
In the second proposition, it is very evidant that the action of the Lodge was
reached through a misunderstanding of the facts, and the members werfl influenced
by misrepresentations.
Question. Can a Lodge set ap,.rt, for social purposes, money received for rent
of their halls?
The Grand Master says No. Such funns are part of the revenue of the Lodge,
and a sum, not exceeding five per cent. of the total revenue for the preceding Masonic year can be used for such purpose.
We thi~k that no greater latitude should be allowed in the use of the funds of
a Lodge for the purpose referred to than is noticed in the Grand Master's reply.
The money referred to becomes a part of the funds of the Lodge as much a• though
they had been received from the payment of dues. We approve of the position
·t aken by the Grand Master.
Question. Can a Mason, holding a dimit, place himself in standing by paying
dues to a Lodge?
The Grand Master answered, No.
Under our Constitution, something more than mere paying of dues is required.
An unaffiliate should present to a Lodge bis petition for affiliation, pay six months'
dues-if he has resided in the State six months or more-and the affiliation fee,
if any. If rejected, be may renew it under the provisions of the Constitution
anrl the decisions of tnis Grand Lodge, and thus keep himself in standing.
The Master of Santa Ba1·bara Lodge, No. 172, desires that all persons who
may be made Master Masons hereafter, shall be required to pass an examinati~n
as to his proficiency in the degree, in open Lodge, within six months after receiving the degree.
We are of the opini~n that this proposition is impracticable. Should this become a regulation we see no means to compel its observance. The ~flicacy of the
law is in the means of enforcing obedience. This could not be reached. Self.
pride should prompt a brother to perfect himself in the work of the Master's degree,
but, if he neglect so tu do, we are utterly powerless to compel him.
We recommend that the resolution be not adopted.

266

Procudin gB of the

[Oct. 11,

Bro. JAMES WRIGHT ANDERSON offers the following resolution :No non-atliliate d Mason, whose dimit, at the time of his application to any
Lode;e in this jurisdiction , shall exceed the period of three cale11dar years from the
date of the issuance thereof, shall he entitled to any pecuniary benefits from the
Lodge to which he may make application for affiliation, until he shall have been
elected to membership therein.
Uniillr our Constitutio n, no uon.afliliate d Mason, who remains such for a period
of six months, is entitled to any of the rights and pri vil01res of the Order. In other
words, he stands ns a suspended Mason; which, we think, is sufficient to reach
the object of the resolution.
·
[See G. L. l"ro., Vol. 4. p. 381 ; Vol. 20, p. 214 ; Vol. 21, p. 212].
We recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
A misunderst anding having arisen between th~ Grand Secretary and Sissim
Lodge, the matter has been referred to your committee. It appears that SiBBtm
Lodge, while ~orking under dispensatio n, paid-as Lodges have ever done, under
similar circumstan ces-six. dollara to the Representa tive Fund. At the next Annual Communica tion of the Grand Lodge, Sisstm Lodge had a delegate present; who
drew fwm said fund the sum of twenty-six dollMs and fifty cents, as expenses for
attending the Grand Lodge. The following year the Lodge, when remit ting the
Grand Lode;e dues, deducted therefrom the sum of @ix dollars, being the amount
which the Lodgt> had paid into the Representa tive Fund the previous year, on the
ground that Lodges working under dispenPation, the delegate therefrom, having
no vote in the Grand Lodge, the Lodge was not required to pay RJoney into the
Representa tive Fund.
Sisson Lodge is wrong. Section 4, Art. VIII, Part I, provides what contributions shall be paid as annual dues by each of the Lodges, whether chartered or
under dispensatio n, at the time and in the m1rnner provided iri Section 4, Art. II,
Part III.
As a matter of square dealing, if the Lodge could draw the .amount of ,26.50,
by investing the sum of $6.00, we cannot see that they have any cause to object. The Grand Secretary is correct, and Sisson Lodge must pay-as we understand it has already done, under protest-its quota of the Representa tive Fund.
The payment is obligatory.
Bro. CHARLES E S·roNE offers the following resolution :-

Ruolved, That life-membe rships may be granted . by subordinate Lodges as

fol~ows:

\Yhere thP. du~s are not JD.excess of six dollars per annum, the
to be
paid for a hfe-membersb1p shall be n1Dety dollars; and where the dues aresum
in excess
of ~ix dollars per annum, th~ sum to be 1>aid sh!l11 be !>ne hundred and eighty dollars.
Said amounts shall be deposited by the Lodge ID savings banks, or invested in bonds
or other interest paying securities.
The question of life-membe rship has been before the Grand Lodge for several
years past and seems to be a difficult one to settle. The Committee on ,Jurisprudence in 1888 used the following language : "If there be any good plan at all in
regard to life-membe rship, it would be to grant such exemption only upon payment
of a sum of money which tbe Lodge shall judge to be at le.ast a fair equivalent for
its monthly dues; and that the money so received should in all cases be securely
invested as a distinct fund,- of which only the income should be used for current or
even extraordina ry expenses. That fund should sta!ld in the place of the member

1895.]

267

GTand Lodge of Oalifornia.

himself for the payment of dues. If extraordina ry expense is at any time incurr~,
it should be met by an increase of the dues of the members of the Lodge, and a h~e­
member should no more be exempt from such an increase than one who bad mamtained hiR stand in!{ by the monthly payment of his dues."
.
The Grand Master, in his Address in 1889, advi•ed legislation on this su~iect.
Th Grand Secretary mentioned it in his report in 1891 under the head of unfimshed
bus~ness. The Grand Master, in his Address of last year, again calls attention ~o
the matter and suggested its reference to the Ccmmittee on J"urispru~ence. Said
committee reported as follows: "This is one of the subjec~s presente~ m the .Grand
Master's Address, and one to which the committee have given attention durmg the
year, but have been unable to d~vise a plan satisfacto? ' to tbemsfllves. T~ey are
agreed that the amount to be paid for such membershi p should b.e ~ fulleqmvale n.t
for dues and that all sums paid in for that purpose should be paid 1Dto and constitute a s~ecial fund to be eecurelv invested in interest pa~i~g fu_nds or property, and
that no Lodge should be permitted to draw upon the pnnmpal ?f that fund for any
purpose, except for jnvestment. But the questions undeter°'.m ed are: 1. What
shall be the minimum sum to be receive:! for such membership_; and 2. How ~an
it be so inveilted as to make it a perpetual fund, the interest or mcome from which
only can be used by thE' Lodge. We ask that the subject be referred to our suc·
cessors for further considerati on."
.
.
.
That the Grand Lodge may fully understand the statuB of t~1s question, is
o~r
excuse for alluding to the matter in detail. Your present com°'.1ttee are hardly 1~
sympathy with life-membe rship on any plan. We believe that ID a general way it
wiffnot prove conducive to the welfare of a Lodge.. On the other hand, we feel as
much at a loss to suggest a eatisfactorv plan as did our predece_ssors. The. plan
suggested by Bro. STONE ill not free from objection. A Lodge. ~1ght conven1en.tly
find excuse for changing its dues to take advantage of the m1mmum sum for hfemembership .
Your committee recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
. Bro. T. J. SHACKLll:FOBD offers the following resolution :-

Resolved, That rupture or hernia, unless Irreducible, is not such disability as to
cauBe one to be ineli~ible for the degrees of Masonry.
The above mentioned disability was a subject for decision bv the Grand Master
in 1883; was reported upon by the Committee on Jurispruden ce, and the_report
adopte;l. by the Grand Lodge.
..
your committee see no reason why said decision sboul<\ be reversed. at tn1s
time, and, therefore, recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
Respectfull y submitted.
NATHANIEL GREENE CraTis,
WILEY ,JAMES TINNIN,
HIRAM NEWTON RUCKER,
Committee.
WILLIAM JOHNSTON,
ALVAH RUSSELL CONKLIN,

I

All which were concurred jn-, and the recommen dations accompanying them were adopted.
The hour having arrived, the election of Grand Officers was again
postponed until one o'clock this afternoon .

268

Proceedings of the

1895.]

[Oct. 11,

To the M. •• W. '. Grand Lodge of California :Your Committee on By-Laws of Lodges beg leave to report as follows:In the case of the proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges Nos. 62,
160, 219, 259, 301, 304, 310 and 316, changing the time of holding stated meetings,
the same having been approved by the Grand Master, your c.immittee recommend

To the M. •• W. •• Grand Lodge of Califrmiia :-

Your committeA, to whom was referred that part of the Grand Master's Addres~
relative to the actinn of the Grand Master in the matter of the endorsement added
to the Blue Lakes Water Bonds, preventing the sale of· any further bonds of the
iBSue, except to·acquire property which will bring in a net revenue of seven per
cent. per annum, repnrt that in the opinion of the committee tbe action of the
Grand :.\faster sho~ld be approved, as this endorsement was necessary to protect
the Grand Lodge ID the matter. We al90 think that it would be well if possible
'
'
to sell these bond!' and rein vest the proceeds.
We therefore offer the following resolutions and recommend their adoption:ReaolMl, That the action of the Grand Master in the matter of the Blue Lakes
Water Co. Bond~ be approved; and, further,
Rel!olved, That the Grarid Master and Grand Treasurer be and they aro hereby
a~thorized to sell the Blue Lakes Water Co's Bonds. to the best advantage and
reinvest the procel'ds.

that his action be affirmed.
In the case of the proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges Nos. 262
and 266, incrP.asing affiliation fee, and that of Lodge No. 160, creating an affiliation fee, and that of Lodge No. 317, aboliohing the affiliation fee, the same having
been approved by the Grand Master, your committee recommend that bis action
be affirmed.

In regard to proposed amendments to By-Laws of Lodges Nos. 39 and 230, relative to funeral" expenses, and Lodge No. 230, relative to Charity Committee, the
Rame having been approved by the Grand Master, your committee recommend that
his action be concurred in.
In the case of proposed amendments to By-Laws of Lodges Nos. 68, 84, 211,
215, 261, 281, 266, 299, 310, 312, 314 and 317, in rpgard to reducing dues of members, the same having been approved by the Grand Master, your committee recommend that his action be affirmed.
In the case of the proposed amendments to By-Laws of Lodges Nos. 2, 25,

Your Finance Committee having considered the claim of the elective officers for
expen~s incurr~ in attenJing this Communicati on of the Grand Lodge, offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption :Ruolved, That the following elective Grand Officers be allowed and paid the
amounts set opposite their respective names from the general fund for expenses in
attending this Communicati on of the Grand Lodge, viz.:M. •• W. ·.JAMES BA.UNTY STEVEN!!, Grand Master, . . .. . .. . .. . ..... $16 00
R. ·. W. •. EDWARD MYERS PRESTON, Deputy Grand Master, ....... 'lfl 75
R. ·. W. ·.WILLIAM THOMAS LUOAB, Senior Grand Warden, . . . ..... 18 25
R. ·. W. ·.THOMAS FLINl', Jr., ... . . .. . .. .... ... : .. ... ... .. ... .... 10 oo

All which .were concurred in, and the resolutions accompany ing
them were adopted .

.·

269

Bro. JA.MEB Lours BARHAM, from the Committee on By-Laws of
Lodges, presented the following report ;-

Bro. CHA'BLEB LEWIS PATTON, from the Committee on Finances,
presented the following reports :-

Your committee have considered the resolutiiin calling attention to that part of
tl.1e Grand Master's Address referring to Valley Lodge, No. 135, relative to the
distressed ~ondition oi said Lodge, owing to the continual drain upon its treasury
for the maintenance and support of an indigent brother, have carefully considered
the matter, and are of the opinion that it is not in the province of this committee
to reco.mmend an .appropriation for its relief, but do belie,·e that it would be just
to rem1.t tlle Grand Lodge dues of said Lodge, and, therefore, offer the following
resolut10n and recommend its adoption :
Rel!olwa, That the dues of Valley Lodge, No. 135, for the year 1895, be and
they are hereby remitted.
Respectfully submitted.
}
JACOB HART NEFF,
.
CHARLES LEWIS PA.'ITON,
Committu.
GEORGE PENLINGTON
EDWARD SHARP VAr.°ENTINE,

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

26, so. 32, u, 43, 46, 51, 55, 59, 62, 77. 80, 81, 83, 8-l, 92, 100, 104, 110, 119, 122, 123,
126, 129, 181, 133, 134, 135, 140, 145. h7, l49, 151, 156, 160, 173, 180, 181, 182, 183, 184,
187, 190, 194, 195, 196, 198, 199, 203, 204, 207, 208, 'H7, 220, 228, 231, 282, 23-l, 243,
246, 247; 248, 250, 253, 25-l, 255, 256, 261, 262, 265, 266, 267, 269, 273, 274, 275, 277,
279, 281, 282, 283, 286, 287, 289, 293, 294, 295, 299, 301, 303, 804, 305, 306, 308, 809,
311, 313, 315, 816, 317 and 818 (a total of 108 Lodges), relative to a rednction of fees

for deiirees, the same having been approved by the Grand Master, your committee
·
recommend that his action be affirmed.
In the caae of the proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges Nos. 81,
161, 241 and 264, relative to reducing dues of members, the same having been disapproved by the Grand Master, your committee recommend that his action be
affirmed.
In the case of the proposed By-Laws adopW by Corona and Con81.ld,o Lodges,
under disj)Ansation, your committee, having carefully examined the several ByLii.ws, and finding them to be in conformity with the Constitution of the Grand
T..odge, we recommend tbeir ·approval.
All which is respectfully submitted.
}
JAMES Louis BARHAM,
EDWARD WILLIAM PE.uiODY, Oollfl&ilt&
MARION ALBERT MENGES,
GEORGE THOMAS MoCABE,

'

Which was concurred in, and the recommend ations accompany ing
it were adopted.

270

'Proceedings of the

[Oct. 11,

Lodge at
RSON submit ted
Thursd ay mornin g's session , Bro. JAMES WBIGHT.ANDK
the follow ing propos ition : -

In acco;da nce with a resolut ion adopte d by the Grand

To the M. '. W. '. Grand Lodge of Californ ia,:-

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1895.]

271

was elected
The W.·. FRANK MARION ANGEL.LOTTI, of San Rafael,
n;
Warde
Junior Grand
was unaniThe V.·. W.·. EDWARD CoLEMA.N, of San Francis co,
mously re-elec ted Grand Treasu rer ; and

n's

GEORGE JOHNSON, of San Francis co, was unanim ously
The
re-elec ted Grand Secreta ry.

in unbound form,
I will assign to the Grand Lodge 1500 copies of said work
and 100 copies in bound form.
r made by the
I agree to dige~t for this Grand Lodge all decisions hereafte
I shall continue to
Grand Lodge, and. prepare the same for publication so long as
be a member of this Grand Lodge.
be paid by the
I will acce.pt in paym~nt for the same, the sum of $2000, to
month.
per
$30
of
ents
mstallm
monthly
m
Grand Lodge

of .Oregon ,
The M. ·. W. ·. Bro. JAOO'B MAYER, Past Grand Master
W.·. Bros.
•.
M.
the
ted
appoin
Master
Grand
the
and
ced,
was announ
a comS
PERKIN
T
CLEMEN
NATHANIEL GREENE Cuans and GEORGE
the
into
him
t
conduc
and
r
brothe
W.-.
·.
..
M
mittee to receive the
, and invited
Honors
c
Masoni
with
d
receive
was
he
where
Lodge,
Grand
to a seat.

with .Anderso
BRJ~THREN :-I submit the followintr proposition in connection of
yesterda y:
session
the
at
Lodge
Grand
the
by
d
requeste
as
anual,
M_
Mason~c
work.
said
in
interest
and
right
my
all
Lodge
I w~l g1v~ to the Grand

Which was referre d to the Commi ttee on Financ es.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until one o'clock
noon.

this after-

AFTERNOON SESSION,

l

Friday , October 11th, A. L. 5895. f

The Grand Lodge was called on at one o'clock , the
presidi ng.

Grand Master

Officer s for
The hour having arrived for the electio n of the Graud
Bros. HABRY
the ensuin g year, the Grand Maste~ named as tellers
CHARLES Woi.F,
JOSEPH LASK~ CHARLES ORINGTON PERKINS and FRANK
:results
ng
followi
the
with
ded
procee
n
electio
the
and
was elected
The R. ·. W. ·. EDWABD ¥YERs PRESTON, of Nevada City,
Grand Master ;
The R.·. W.·. WILLIAM THOMAS LuoAs, of Santa Maria,
Deputy Grand Master ;

was elected

The R.·. W.-. THOMAS F'LINT, 'Ja., of San Juan, was elected
Grand Warde n ;

Charte rs, preBro. FRANK CHARLES WoLF, from the Commi ttee on
:
report
ng
followi
the
sented
To the M. •• W.·. Grand Lodge of CaUfornia :-

~n ®rand ~odgt.
. .

v.·. w.·.

Senior

submitted by
Your committee have carefuUy examined the records and papers
:follows
as
report
majority
the
Whittier Lodge, U. D., and
of the petiThe petition for dispensation baa been accompanied by the <limits
Lodge is free from
the
and
te,
certifica
and
endation
recomm
proper
the
and
tioners
properly kept, and
debt. The record book of the Lodge, however, has not been
d ; and while
'!hows irregularities in its proceedings which we cannot pass unnotice
regular, still he
were
ngs
proceedi
the
all
that
ee
committ
the
assured
Master
the
circumstancea, we
has certified to the correctness of the minutes, and, under the
offer the following
cannot consider anything except the records. We therefore
resolution and recommend its adoption :a charter, be denied,
Besolwd, That the petition of Whittier Lodge, U. D., for
of the Grand
meetinq'
annual
next
the
until
D.
U.
d
continue
be
they
that
and
·
Lodge.
Respectfully submitted.
}
FRANK SABINUS R1011:,
GEORGE WOODBURN NICOL, Committee.
JACOB SURFACE,
Which report was not concur red in.
the same com. Bro. WOLF then presen ted a minori ty report from
mittee, a.a follow s:To the M. ·• W. •• Gr01nd Lodge of CalifO'T'nia :-

examined the
. We, the minority of the committee on Charters, having carefully
·
:follows
as
report
to
leave
beg
D.,
U.
Lodge,
Whittier
returns of
been
has
tion
.As in the foregoing report, we find that the petition for dispensa
endation and
accompanied by the dimits of the. petitioners and the proper recomm
It is situated
certificates. The Lodge is free from debt and has made a fair record.
half of whom are
in Whittie r, a small village of about twelve hundred inhabitants,

272

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 12,

Q~akel'I!, and are bitterly opposed to Masonry. Nevertheless the Lodge, standing
with seventeen members, has received four members by affiliation, and has conferred
the degrees on two petitioners, and, as an evidence that they are careful in the
selection of the material, we have only to mention the fact that two petitions have
been rejected. The brethren who composed the charter list donated three hundred
dollars to start the Lodge; and while we believe it will never be a large Lodge, we
have every reason to think that it w~ll become a flourishing and prosperous one if
a charter is grant~d now. The whole fault has been in the selection of a Secretary
who was grossly mcompetent, and who had not the first idea of how to keep the
record book. If he had but followed the instructions given in the book of Example
Lodge he could not have gone astray, and we censure the Master for not having
exercised a closer supervision over the acts of the Secretary. The records are full
of gross inaccuracies, and were the meetings of the Lodge conducted as the minutes
show they were, we would never recommend the granting of a cha.rter. But having
hea~d the Master of the Lodge and one of its members, the Masters of two neighbormg Lodges and the Inspector, we are convinced that all the proceediDgs of the
Lo?ge were regular, and that the minutes are very inaccurate, and we do not
beheve the Lodge should Le made to suffer through the fault of this one brother
If a charter is granted, the Lodge will be able to hold an election of officers and
the mistake in the selection of a Secretary will be corrected ; if they have to continue under dispensation, they cannot change their officers, and it will be a death
blow to the ~odge. Be!ievinl? it to be for the · best interests of Masonry we
offer the followmg resolution and recommend its l\doption : -

Resolved. That a charter be granted to Whittier Lodge, with such number as the

usage of the Grand Lodge directs.
Respectfully submitted.

FRANK CHARLES WOLi!', l
GEORGE CHARLll:S RAu, Of the Committee.

r

Which was concurred in and the resolution adopted.
The Grand Master appointed Bro. EDWIN WHIPPLE, of Alameda
Lodge, No. 167, a member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Widows' and Orphans' Home, vie~ EDWA.RD MYERS PRESTON, resigned.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock to-morrow
morning.

After music by the choir, and prayer by the Grand Chapiain, the
minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and approved.
Bro. CHARLES LEWIS PATTON, from the Committee on Finances,
presented the following report :To the M.-. W. •. <hand Lodge of Californ.W. :Your committee respectfully recommend that our retiring Grand Master, Bro.
JAMES BAUNTY STEVENS, be requested to sit for his portrait, and that, when done,
the Grand Secretary be instructed to have it suitably framed and placed with the
other portraits of the Grand Masters in the gallery of the Grand Lodge ; and they
recommend that the Grand Secretary be and he is hereby authorized to procure a
Past Grand Master's Jewel (at a cost not to exceed two hundred dollars), as a
testimonial expressive of the appreciation which the Grand Lodge entertains of
the courteous and di1?Dified manner our esteemed Past Grand Master JAMES
BAUNTY STEVENS has performed the duties of his high office, and that the same be
presented to him at the next Annual Communication.
All which is respectfully submitted.
}
JAooB HART Nuir,
. Comm.,..
CHARLl!S LEwis PATTON,
EDWARD SHARP VALENTINE,

Which was concurred in, and the recommendation adopted.
Bro. FRANK CHARLES W OLP, from the Committee on Charters, presented the following report :TQ "the M.-.

w.-. Grand Lodge of O<UiJornfa :-

your committee, having carefully examined the records and papers submitted
by Coniuelo Lodge, U. D., at Escondido, Cal., beg leave to submit the following;
The petition for dispensation bas been accompanied by the <limits of the petitioners, and .theproper recommendation and certificate, and the Lodge is free from
debt. The record book has been fairly well kept and in conformity with our
regulations. We therefore offer the following resolution :Reaolved, That a charter be granted Consuelo Lodge, U. D., at Escondido, Cal.,
with such number as the usage of the Grand Lodge directs.
Respectfully submitted.
FRANK CHARLES WOLll',
JACOB SURFACE,
Committee.
FRANK SAVJUNUS RICE,
GEORGE CHARLES RAU,
GEORGE WOODBURN NIOOL, ,

!

Which was concurred in, and the resolution accompanying it was
adopted.

~ n ~rand ~odge.
MORNING SESSION,

273

Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornia.

1895.]

}

Saturday, October 12th, A. L. 5895.

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

Bro. FRANCIS ALVIN ABBOTT, from the Committee on Pay of Members, presented the following report :To the

M.-. W.-. Grand Lodge of Calif<Yf'nia:-

. Your committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the State to the place of
llll!eting of the' Grand Lodge and return, and of reportinl? such cost of transportation

18

274

[Oct. 12,

Proceedinga of the

as the sum due to the officers or representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as
well as the appointed Grand Officers ond Chairmen of Standing Committees, for
their necessary expenditure for transportation to and from the Grand Lodge, report
that, they have carefi11ly discharged that duty, and submit the following statement,
showing the names and numbem of all existing Lodges, the amount of dues paid
by each on account of the Representative Fund, the day of communication on
which each Lodge was represented, if represented at all, and the amount allowed
to each Representative, appointed Grand Officer and Chairmen of Standing Committees, as follows:-Nam.111.nd Number of Loc!a;e.

Oalifor11ia,
Western Star,
Tehama,

. Benicia,
7\wlumne,
Oorinth1.an,
Ban Jose,
Yount,

Neoada,

No.

"

..

Temple,

J!)ureka,
Parfaue Union,
Mounlain Shade,
So.n Joaquin,
Washington,
Occidental,
Madison,
Mariposa,
Georgeto111r&,
El Dorado,

Bania Oroz,
Yuba,

Bacrament.o,
.Martinez,
Los .Angeles,
Hiram,
Mount Moriah,

Michigan Oity,
Forbesloton,
lllinoislo111r&,
Suisun,
Volcano,
Banta Bosa,
Unwn,

!'

Am'ti A.llowed.

2...... 12 75 .... Paid ...... "
. .........
3 ...... 28 25 . ... Paid ...... " " ..........
5 .. .. .. 13 25 ... Paid ...... "
8 ...... · 26 25 .... Paid ...... "
9...... 22 50 . ... Paid ...... "
10...... 51 00 .... Paid ...... "
12. ..... 22 50 ..•. Paid ...... "
13. ..... 82 25 .... Paid ...... "
14...... 10 75 .... Paid ...... "
16 . ..... 12 00 .... Paid . .... . "
17 ...... 26 50 . . .. . Paid ...... "
18...... 9 25 .... Paid ...... "
19...... 24 50 .... Paid ...... "
20. ..... 18 00 . .. . Paid . ..... "
22...... 51 75 .... Paid ...... "
23...... 32 60.... Paid ...... "
24.. .... 9 00 .... Paid ...... "
26...... 10 50 .... Paid ...... "
26 . ..... 11 00 . .. . Paid ...... "
15 75 . ... Paid ...... "
30. ..... .&4. 75 .... Paid ...... "
32.. •• •• 9 60 ....Paid ...... "
33...... 9 25 ... . Paid .. .... "
36...... 4.3 76 .... Paid ...... ••
37....... 16 00 . ... Paid ...... " "
38...... 32 50 . ... Paid ...... "
39...... 22 75 .... Paid ...... "
4.0...... 36 60 .... Paid . ..... "
4.1...... 16 00 .... Paid ...... "
4.2 ...... 4.1 00 .... Paid . ..... "
.. ...... ..
4.3 ....•. 6 75 .... Paid ...... - - .. . ..... ..
4.4. ••••• • 56 50 .... Paid ...... 1st day........ ..
4.5 ......
7 00 .... Paid ...... "
......... .
4.6 .••• •• 7 25 . ... Paid ...... "
4.7 ..... . 8 00 . ... Paid .... .. "
........ ..
50 .... .. 10 00 .... Paid,. .... 2d day ........ ..
51. ... ..
7 50 .... Paid ......1st day ...... . .. .
55 ..... . 18 00 .... Paid . .. ... "
......... .
........ ..
56. ..... 4. 75 .... Paid . ..... "
57 ...... 4.2 75 .... Paid .... -·"
......... .
58 ...... 38 50 ...Paid ...... 2d day ......... .

n.. ....

Gol,den Gate,
Gold Hill,
Ophir,
Ban Diego,
Saint John's,

Te:r:as,

When Repretented.

..

7Hnity,

Orescent,

Due1 to Rep. ruud.

1. ••... $120 50 .... Paid ...... let day ........ ..

..

$16 00
5 00
2 00
15 50
9 25
2 50
3 00
14. 75
2 00

7 25
25 00
5 00
5 00
13 50
18 60
U25
11 75
26 00

7 75
14. 00
4.5 00
30 50
5 75
9 25
5 00
2 00
35 00

26 00
5 75
14. 25
17 25
10 00
3 00
16 75
3 00
'5 00

1895.]

Name and Number of Lodge.

&ravel Bange,
No.
Plumas,
Live Oak,
George Washfnglon, "
Natoma,
Amador;
Forest,
Morning Star,
Enterprise,
Bear .Mountain,
Petaluma,
Oalaveras,
Humbol.dl,,

lone,
Yolo,
Rising BIA.r,
Vesper,
Na'Oal,
Quitm.an,
Bose's Bar,
North Star,
.Aoacia,
Saint. Helena,
Henry Olay,
Howard,
Jefferson,
Hornitos,
La Grange,
Oampo Seco,
Olay,
Manzanita,
Oroville,
Le:iington,

bcata;
Owen,
Pa;'aro,
Oh:lco,
8ummU.,
Eden,
Mount. Zion,

Ooncowd,
Olinton,
F'i.delity.
Ionic,

dlamo,
Sot.oyome,
Table Mountain,
LaFayeUe, .
Hm-mann,
VU!alia,

Nicolaus,
Woodbridge,

275

Grand Lodge of California.
DuH to Rep. ll'und..

When Bepreaented.

"

.

Am't Allowed.

59 .... $ 8 25 . .. . Paid . .. ... let day...... . ...
60. ..... 8 00 .... Paid . ..... - - ........ ..
61. ..... 55 75 .... Paid ...... lat day ... .. .... .
62..... .
4.. 75 .... Paid ...... "
" ........ ..
64....... 11 00 .... Paid . ..... "
......... .
65 .. .... 13 00 .... Paid ...... " " ......... .
66 . ..... 11 00 . .. . Paid ...... - - ........ ..
68..... 32 00 ... . Paid ......let day ......... .
70 .... ,. 26 50 . . .. Paid . ..... "
........ ..
76. . .... 10 50 . ... Paid . ., .. "
77...... 15 75 .... Paid .. .... "
78 . .. .. . 7 25 .... Paid ...... "
79....... 4.3 00 .... Paid ...... "
80 ..... . 11 75 .... Paid ...... "
81. ... .. .'.i 50 .... Paid . ..... - - ........ ..
83 .. •...
7 25 . ... Paid ...... lat day .......·...
84. ...... 18 00 .... Paid ...... "
......... .
87 ....•. 31) 75 .... Paid ...... 3d day ......... .
88 . ... .. 8 75 ..•. Paid ...... let day ........ ..
89 . .... .
4. 00 . .. .Paid ...... "
......... .
91. ..•..
9 75 . .. . Paid . ..... "
92 ...... 5 25 . ... Paid . ..... "
93.. .... 16 50 . ... Paid ..... . "
. .. ...... .
95...... 14. 75.-... Paid ..... . "
......... .
96.... .. 15 60 .... Paid ...... "
......... .
97...... 6 50 .. . . Paid ...... - - ........ ..
98 . ..... 4. 25 . ... Paid ...... lat day ........ ..
99..•... 18 25 .... Paid ...... " " ........ ..
100 . ....• 5 75 . ... Paid .. . ... - - ......... .
101. ..•.. 18 25 . .. . Paid ...... - - ......... .
102 . ... .. 10 75 .... Paid ...... lat day ......... .
......... .
103 .... .. 17 75 .... Paid . ..... "
104..... .. 5 50 .... Paid ...... "
106.. .... 19 00 ... . Paid ...... "
......... .
108...... 4. 75 .... Paid ...... - - ........ ..
110...... 20 75 .... Paid ...... "
111...... 25 00 .... Paid . ..... "
112...... 6 50 .. .. Paid ...... "
. ........ .
113.. . ... 18 00 . ... Paid .. . ... - - . ........ .
114....... 3 00 . .. . Paid ...... - - ......... .
117...... 19 25 .... Paid ......let day ......... .
119..... . 5 25 .... Paid ... ... "
......... .
120 ...... 61 7ii .... Paid . ..... "
........ ..
121......
7 25 .... Paid ...... - - ...... .. ..
122.. ....
9 50 . ... Paid ...... 1st day ......... .
123...... 17 25 . ... Paid ...... "
..... .. .. .
124....... 12 75 . ... Paid ...... "
........ ..
126...... 14. 25 .... Pa.Id ...... "
127...... 28 25 .. .. Paid ...... "
128. .... . 21 50 .... Paid .. ., .. "
129...... 16 50 .... Paid ...... "
131...... 14 50 .... Paid ...... "

..

$19 00
25
14. 75
7 50
11 00

5 00
9 25
10 75
2 00
12 00
20 00
9 25

HOO
12 00
2 00
18 50
11 50
32 50
15 00
4. 00
11 00
30 50
13 50
8 5~

16 50
12 25
35 75
21 00

5 50
10 75
10 75

5 00
17 00

3 00

4. 50
12 25
s 50

14. 50
8 50
6 25

Name •D4 Number or Lodi•·

Sincerity,
Yosemite,
Vaca1'ille,
Valley,
Pacific,
Orockett,
Ourtis,
Graflbn,

B'ranklin,
Orierital,
Vitru1'ui8,
Abell,
Eel Riller,

Lassen,
Molino,
PoJ,myra,
Woodland,
(}ibson1'ille,
Pil.otHiJJ,

Keystone,
Harmony,
Jj}z,celsior.
.!lameda,
San Mateo,
Mis Bion,
Elk &ro1'e,
I>rytollJfl,

Antioch,
Phamiz,
Mendocino,
Arcturus,
Russian Ri1'er,
Meridian,
OT.ear Lake,
Sierra Valley,
OlaibornP-,
E'Dening Star,

Keith,
Oakland,
Nurthei-n Light,
Marin,
Santa Barbar a,
Ferndale,
Mountain View,
Buckeye,

San Simeon,
Wilmington,
Hartley,
1ruckee,
SiloeyviUe,
Penta"f/iha,
Oonfidence,

[Oct. 12,

Proceeding• of the

276

DQu to Rep. l'on.d.

Wb.eo BeprtHDMd.

.lm"t Allowed.

No. 132 .• • . . . S 6 00 .... Pe.id . ...• . - - . . . ••.••..
2 25 . . . . Pe.id .. .• .. - - .. • . .• . .. .
133... ...
134 .• ..•. 15 75 .. •. Pe.id ...... - - - .. • .. . • . • .
135.. .... 7 60 . . • . Paid .. •• . . 2d day. . ... .. . ..
136 . . . . . 89 00 . .. . Paid . ...• . 1st day . . ... .•...
. ••.. .°....
139. . . ... 33 25 . .. . Paid ...•. "
•. • • .•• . ..
8 25 . ... Paid .. ..• . "
140.. .. ..
" 141.. .. .. 6 00 . .. . Pe.id . ... .. " " . •• .• .•.•.
.. • •. • ... .
143 . ." . . . . 1150 . •.. Paid ... . . . "
• . .. •••.•.
144. . .. . . 45 75 . ... Pe.id .... . . -"
8 25 . .. . Pe.id . .... . - - .• . . .. . • . .
145.. . ..
146 . . .. . . 28 60 .. . . Pe.id ... . . . let day ... •. . •. .
147...... 18 00 . ... Pe.id .. .. .. let day .... .• . •..
. .... ... . .
149...... 16 00 .• . •Pe.id .. • . . ••"
. • • •.••..•
160. .. . .. 12 00 .. .. Pe.id . .••. • "
••..••••• •
161. . ... . 18 75 ...• Pe.id . . .• • . "
166 .. . .. • 19 25 .. .. Pe.id . . . . .. "
158 . . •.. . 9 75 .•.. Pe.id ... ... "
160 . ....•
3 50 .... Pe.id . .. ... "
"
••... .. ...
7 50 . ... Pe.id ....•. "
" ' 161 ..... .
164..... .
6 75 .... Pe.id ..... . - - ... . .... .•
166 .. . . . . 64 50 .. .• Pe.id ..... . 1st day .• •.. . ..••
,,
167.. .• • • 19. 00 . ... Paid . . .. . u
168... . . . 17 25 . .•. Pe.id . .. ... "
. .. . . .. .. .
169 . .. . •• 74 00 . . •. Pe.id . .... . "
. ..• . ... . .
173.: .. .
9 75 . . •. Pe.Id . .. .. . "
174. . • . .. 4 25 . .. . Pe.id . . .. .. - - •• . •.•....
175 .•.•. • 9 25 .. .. Pe.id . ..•.. - - ... .. . . . . .
178 ..•.. . 25 75 .. .. Pe.id . ... .. let day .•.• . . ....
. . ....... .
179 .... . . 16 25 .... Paid .. .... "
" 180. . . . .. 26 00 . . .. . Pe.id .. . . . " "
181.. . .. . 10 dO ...• Pe.id ..... . "
. .... ....•
182 . . . . . 10 00 .. •. Pe.id .. .. . . "
. .. . . .... .
183... . . . 6 75 ... . Paid..... . "
.. .. ....•.
184.. . . .. 6 00 ..•. Paid .• • ..• "
186. ..... 8 25 . .• . Paid.. . .. . 2d day .... •• •...
9 50 .. •. Pe.id ..• ... lst day . .. . . .... ;
186. ... ••
... ..... . .
187... . .. 14 26 . . . . Paid . ..... "
188. . .. .. 68 25 .• •. Paid . •. .. ·. "
190.. ... . 12 25 .•• . Paid . ... . . " "
191...... 14 00 . . .. Paid . .• .. . "
"
192.. . . . . 17 25 ... . Paid .... . . "
193 . .. . .. 15 25 . ... Paid .. .. . . "
.. . .. .... .
194.. ... . 10 25 .•• .Paid. . ... "
.• • .. . • •. •
195. . .. . . 11 26 . .•• Paid .. .... "
....••.. • •
196. . .. .. 7 00 ..• • Paid . .. . .. "
198.... . . 13 25 .•• •raid . . .. .. " " . . ... .. .•.
• • . .• . . ..
" 199. . . . 11 flO . •• •Pe.id . . ..• • "
200 .. .• .. 18 75 . . .. Paid . •• .. • - - . •..• . • •• •
201.. . . .. 13 50 .... Paid ...• .. 1st day ... ..... .•
.• .. . . . . . .
202 . •.. • . 77 00 •• •• Paid . ••.• . "
..... ... . .
5 00 . • . . Paid .. .• •• "
203. . . .. .

..

...

..

277

Grand Lodge of California.

1895.]

Name .n.d N11mber of Lodse.

Due1 to Rep. Yund.

Wben Repre1e.o ted.

Am't Allowed·

$ 6 50
No. 204 .• • .•. $22 25 . .. . Pe.id .•. ... 1st day . . • . . . . . .
13 bO
. . • . • . • .. .
205. . . .. . 12 00 .••• Paid •• •• •• "
Net01'ille,
6 25
• . • •. • • • ..
206. . . . .. 13 25 •••• !'a.id. . .. . ...
SianiBZaus,
S6 00
.. . .. •. ••.
207...... 5 50 . .• . Paid . •. .•• "
Anaheim,
200
750 •• .. Paid .•• •.• "
208 . . . . • .
Rio Vista,
15 25
. • . •. . • . . •
209 . . . . . 22 50 .• • . Paid . •... "
Ktng Dt11'id's,
2 50
. . . .• • ... •
210 . .. .•. 40 00 . .•. Paid . . . ... "
Friendship,
5 25
. . . .• •. • ••
211 . .••.. 17 00 •••. Paid ..•••• "
San Benito,
. ..• •. .. • •
So. San .Frano'8oo, " 212 .. ..•• 25 00 . .•. Paid ...••• "
35 00
.... . ..... .
214... . .. 18 50 ..•. Paid .....• "
San Buena1'entura, "
25
.••..•. ...
215 . . .. .. 38 25 .••• Paid .....• "
Oak (}rc>11e,
... •.•• . • ••
216 . • . . •. 45 25 ..• . Paid .. • ... "
Doric,
6 00
. .... . • • • •
217.. .. . . 13 60 .. . Paid ..•..• "
'Montereg,
2 50
•..••.... •
218.. .•.. 10 75 . .• • Paid • •••. "
.Mosaic,
Speranza ltaliana, " 219. . . • • 22 00 ••• •Pa.id ... ... - - ...•. • ... •
36 75
220 .. . . • . 11 50 . . .. Pa.id . •. ... 1st day . .• ••.... .
Downey,
60 25
. .• ·9 25 .•.. Pa.Id ..... . " " . .. . . ... ..
Inyo,
" 221...
7 60
9 50 . . • . Pa.id ...... 2d day ...••. . ••.
222 ... . ..
Granite,
18 25
224. . . ... 12 75 .. .. Paid ..••••1st day ....•.•. .
Bakersfield,
26
. •. . . . • .• .
225. . . ... 22 25 .• . • Pa.id . .•••• "
B rooklyn,
3 25
. ... ••••••
226 .. .... 8 50 ... Pa.id . • . • •• "
Hayward,
227... . .. 6 50 .. . . Paid . •.. • - - .•... . . ...
Oont.ra Oosta.
228.. .... 9 50 ..•. Pa.id . .•• •• - - . .. .• .••• •
Athens,
2 00
229 . ..• . • 17 00 .:. Pald . . . .•• lsi day .•• . . •• • •
Solano,
230 . •.••. 11 25 ... Paid .•. . •• - - •••.•••• • •
North Butte,
6 75 ••. . Paid . . •••• - - . . • ••••••.
231.
Cbvelo,
39 50
282. ..... 8 00 .. . Paid . . • : .. 1st day ..• ..• •• •.
Jan.e81'iUe,
4 60
233.... . . 11 60 . . . . Paid ...•.• 2d day .. .. .... .
Oalistoga,
25 00
234 . ..••• 10 26 ... •Paid . •.••• lst day ••.....•.•
Hope,
Paid . . •• .• - - .••. . •. •• •
Surprise Valley ,
" 235... . .. 7 00,.••. ... Pa.id
8 00
.. . ; .. 1st day . .• . • •••• •
236 ... ••• . 11 -50
HiU"s Ferry,
18 00
..•. • . . .. .
237 .•.•.. 625 .. . . Pa.id ..•..• "
Guadalupe,
10 26
••••• . .•. .
240. ..... 13 50 . ... Paid .• .. •. "
Oolusa,
37 00
. .. •• .•.•.
241...... 24 25 . ••. Pe.id .• .. . . "
Santa.Ana,
35 00
•.. . • .. .. .
242...... 14 25 •. .. Pe.id...... "
Magnolia,
76
12 50 .••• Paid .•.... "
243 . ..
.f}ucoJ,yptus,
25
244...... 25 00 •• • • Pe.id . ••... "
AZoatriiz,
10 00
245. ... .. 14 50 . . . . Paid .• .•• • "
Laut·el,
37 00
246...... 20 60. .. . Paid .... •• ••
Pomona,
11 75
247. . • ••• 29 00 ••• •Paid .. . . . . "
B'resno,
60 00
7 25 .. .• Paid . •.••• "
248 . . . . ..
Alturas,
.. .... : ... 37 00
3 50 .• .• P aid . ... . . "
249. . .. . .
Green11l1Ze,
42 00
260 . . .. . . 9 60 .• •• P aid . •. • . . "
A din,
55 00
252 ..• . .. 10 25 •.• . Paid .. . .. . "
Bodie,
5 76
253 . •• .•• 7 75 ... . Paid .. .... "
Landmark,
16 00
254 ..•.•. 13 25 . .. . Paid.:•••• "
Beading,
15 00
255 . . .... 12 00 • • • •Pa.id . •.•• • "
W e!c01ne,
6 00
256 . . . .. . 8 25-. • •• Paid .•• •. "
Lod£,
7 75
258. ..... 6 00 . .. . Paid . .. • •. "
Penrhyn,
39 00
269. . . . .. 30 75 .• . . Pe.id . . . . • . "
I!Joergreen,
260. .. .. . 58 75 . .. . Paid . • . . • • "
King Solomon's,
8 50
2:Uscan,
261. ..... 8 00 •• • •P aid .•••• • "

Salinas,

S 4 60
6 50

6 00
6 75
2 00

9 00
23 60
37 00
12 25
11 76
6 25
28 25
10 25
7 60

2 00
1 75
6 60

38 50
15 00
2 00

4 00
7 50
12 50
26 50
14 00
S6 50
4 60
25
18 00
75
35 00
27 00

2 25
6 60
19 50
36 00
10 00
5 00
35 00
6 00

.

..
..

.. .... .. . .

278

Procee.dings of the

Name an.d Number or Lodge.

Dau to Rep. P'u.nd.

[Oct. 12,
Am'& .Allowed.

When BepreHoted

No. 262 .. .. .. $10 25 •••. Paid .••••. let day .
Lompoo,
Hesperian,
264. · • • • • 15 00 . ... Paid .••••• _ _ .••••• •. •
Orland,
265 · • · • • ·
7. 75 ... . Paid ..... 2d da . · · · · ·· · ..
''
North East.
266...... 8 75 .••. Paid . •.•.. let da::::::. :::.
Galt,
267 . · · • · · 6 25 . ... Paid ...•. - Durant.
~68...... 19 75 •••. Paid ..•.•. let day ...•.....
Olive Branch,
::::::::::
269 ..• • _ . 2S 75 .. • •Pald . ••••• "
Sno1JJ Mountain,
271. • · · • · 5 75 ... Paid ...... - Pasadena ,
272 ··"·· 31 50 . ... Pald ..•.•. let day:::::: ::::
"
.Anchor,
273. • · • •• 10 25 ..•. Paid •••... " "
.Arroyo,
274. • • • • • 6 50 .... Paid . .••.. _ _ ..•••••.. '
Oakdale,
275 ···••• 8 75 .. . . Pald ...... lst day:::::: ::::
Selma,
277 · • • • · • 13 75 .... Paid .....• "
..... ... . .
Suuthern Oalifornia ," 278. · · · · · 65 00 .. . . Paid ...... ,,
"
..... . ... .
Hanford,
279. · · · ·. 16 70 . ... Paid ...... ''
.
Madera,
280. . • · · · 10 25 .• . . Paid .... .• " " .•• ·•• •· ..
....•.••. .
Mount Shasta,
281. • • · •
7 .iO •••• Paid..... "
"
..... .. . .
Oallayomi,
5 25 ... Paid ....... ''
282 .... · · ·
•••••••.••
South West,
8 50 .... Paid . ... .. u
283. · · · ·.
•••••••• • •
fyrian,
7 25 . .. . Paid ...... fl
284......
San .Miguel,
• • • • • • • • • •
285 . · · · · · 1 00 . .. Paid ...... fc
..
Paso Robltis,
286. · · · · · 11 50 .... Paid ...... ,,
......... .
Winnedum ah ,
1 25 . .. . Paid . ..... ,,
287 · · · · · ·
.••..•••.•
288
.Maz11Jell,
· •· · ·• 5 00 .•.. Paid •••.. 2d day .••..•••..
Eltlinore,
28 9. · • •• • 4 60 .••. Paid .•••. . l•t day ..•....•.
Sunset,
290. · • • • • 16 75 . ••. Paid .... .. "
... . ..... .
Santa Paula,
291. · · · · · 13 00 .... Paid .. .... ,,
0

0

••

Los Gatos,
Orange (}rOTJe,
lraoer,
Mount Jackson,
Silver Gate, ·
.Dunsmuir .
Mokelumn e F'lll,
Liberty,
Ontario,
Banta Luoia,
PortP.rVille,
Reedley,

.Azusa,

Hueneme,

292. · •..• 16 50 .•.. Paid . •.•.. 2d day: :: :::::::
293 · ·•· • · 4 25 .·... Paid .. .. .. let day ......... .
294. • • • • • 4 75 ..,. . Paid . .. . •. "
295 . .... . 10 75 . ... Paid . ...... - - ........ .
296 . · · · •. 18 50 .... Paid ...... let day .. ·······•
. . .•...•.•
4 75 . ••. Paid .•.•.. "
:!97 . . ·• ••
6 25 .... Paid ..•••• " " ..•.......
298.... •.
• • • • • • • ••
8. 76 . .. . Paid ....... ff
299.......
300. · ·..• 20 50 .•.. Paid ...... " ... .. ....... .
301. · · • · . 13 50 .••. Paid .••• . . "
7 5(1 •..• Pa!d .•.. . . --::::: :::::
302 .•...•
3o3 . . · ·• · 11 50 .. • .Paid .••••• let day ...•..••.•
"
6 50 . .•• Paid . ..• •• "
304. • • · ••
. ... · ···· ·
8 50 .... Paid ....... ,,
305 . . ····
30 6. · · · · ·
7 25 . .•. Paid . ...... ,,
... .
.......
s
307
. . • •• • 1 00 . •• . Paid ...... 2d day ••..•..•••
308...... 10 75 .••. Paid ..•... let day . • . .. • •
"
309. · · · · · 5 50 .••. Paid ...... "
......... .
6 25 ... Paid . . ... u
310 .. .. . .
311. · · · · ·
5 50 .... Paid..... '' fc .......... ..
312 · • • • • •
6 25 .... Paid . . . .. . " ,, ......... .
313. · · · • · 3 75 .•.. Paid ... .,. _ _ ..•..• . ...
814 · ·••·· 5 75 •.• . Paid .• •.. let day:::.:::::~
316. · • • • · 6 75 .••• Paid .••••• " "
0

•••••••••

..

..

LosBaMs ,
Tehachapi,
Temesoai,
Norwalk,

•••

11 00
63 00
25
14 50
35 50
S5 75

.

··········

Name u.d number or Lo(lce.

7 75
12 75
35 00
14 00
10 50
u 25
8 50
4/i 00
7 25
12 00
12 50
64 00
9 00
41 50
35 00
35 00
3 25
37 00
13 25
45 00
20 25
12 00
2 50
39 00
37 50
17 00
14 25
86 50
38 50
36 00
36 00
16 25
21 25
36 liO
10 00
37 50
86 00

Dues to Rep. Jl"uod.

When Repreaent.ed.

Am'& .A..llow1d.

316 . •• ..• $ 8 75 .••• Paid • .••• . let day... . ......
317... ••• 4 25 ..•• Paid .•.••• " " •••••••.••
318...... 4 50 .••. Paid .•••. . 2d day...... ....
319... . . . 22 50 .... Paid . ..• • 1st day .. . . ......
320 . ..... 25 50 . . •. Paid . •..•. " " • . ••. • . •• .
. . ...••. .•
321. . .... 3 75 .••. Pald ...... "
. • ••••••••
322...... 6 25 •••.• Paid ....•. "
" U. D... . •• 5 7:5 ... Paid .... : ;, " • • • • • •. • . •
. . ...•.•.•
" U. D. ..... 19 00 . ••• Pald ...••• "
..• •.. •• ••
" U. D. . .•• . 5 75 .•• . Pald . .•.•. "
does to the Rep. Fond, .•• $4.,326 00 Total amooot of allowaoce s, . .

Sanger,
Fallbrook,
liJmmanuel,
Bo'U.enbeck;
South Gate,
.Alisal,
.Alhambra,
Whittier,
e'orona,
Ucmsuelo,
Total

>

Redlands,

.Ashlar,
Santa Monica,
.MonrotJia,
.Delano.
Biss cm,

•

$24 75

279

Grand Lodge of Oal,iforui.a.

1895.]

No.

$13 25
4S 00
9 60
35 00
35 00
2 60
35 60
35 75
35 50
43 25

$3.62300

Standing
The amounts allowed to the appointed Grand Officers and Chairmen of
as follows:Committee s, entitled to payment from the Representa tive Fund, are
25
JUSTUS MICHAEL HINMAN, Grand Chaplain•.••..•• ; ....••••. let day .•.•....
5 00
ORBIN STAPLES HENDERSON. Grand Marshal .. . . .... ......... ..
20 00
EDWIN HUDSON PRBCY, Grand Standard Bearer.......... . ... ..
38 50
HENBY .A KELLE!<, Grand Sword Bearer•.• . ..•....•. . .. ... . "
5 75
FREDERICK WtLLiill J,ucAs, Grand Bible Bearer .•.•.. .°.. .•. "
11 00
WALLACE KAY, Grand Senior Deacon ........... ... .. ... .. "
35 00
SAMUEL PRAGER, Grand Junior Deacon . . .. ...... •..••..••• . "
15 00
THOMAS JEFFERSON RuHIABDB, Grand Senior Steward ••.••••. "
5 25
WILLIAM HENRY CUBBON, Grand Junior Steward .......... .. ..
5 00
JOHN WALTER BoYD, Grand Pursuivan t ••..•.....• ••....•..• . "
5 00
N. GBEENR CUBTIS, Chairman Com. on Jurisprude nce .•••••• "
75
FRANK MAB.ION ANGELLOTI'I, Chairman Com. on Grievance s. "
10 00
JAcos BABT NEFF, Chairman Com. ori' Finance•.••.•..•• •. "
35 00
"
... . "
CoBNKLIUS WBLI.ES PENDL.ETON, Ch'n Oom. on Returns .•.
41 50
WILLIAM EBSKillE SLOAN, Ch'n Com. on Pay of Members ......
t2s3 oo
Total • . •.•. ...• .•. • •••• ..•.••..•• . ...••••. • .•. . .....••. . ....•••••• •
3,623 00
To which add amount to representa tives of Lodges, as before . •. .•.•••••••
00
$3,81i6
••.
Showing total allowance of•• . ....•••••• ......••••• •.•..••••• •••.••••.•
4,326 00
•.•...
.
..••••.•
year
the
for
above,
as
Fond,
ative
Represent
of
The amount
3,856 00

s47ooo

Balance to credit of Represent ative Fond .•.... ~. . ... .. ......•. .• ....
Food
As It is evident t~at no increase of the levy for account of Represent ative
and
for the ensuing year is nece88ary, your committee offer the following resolution
recommen d its adoption : cnr·
Resol1'ed, That there be levied upon the Lodges of this juriediotlo n, for the
the sum of
rent fiscal year, in ~ddition to the does pre11Cribed by the Constituti on,
at the date of
twenty·llv e cents for each . member borne npoo their respeotive rolls
levy shall be
their aooaal reports, for account of the Represent ative Fond; which
or the aonoal
paid at the same time and in the manner prescribed for the payment
dnes.
All which is respectfnl ly Mobmitted by
WrLLiill ERSKINE SLOAN, }
Oommittee.
FRANCIS ALVIN ABBOTT,
WrLLiill BKOCKMAN,

Which report was concurre d in, and the accompa nying resolutio n
was adopted.

280

. Proeeedings of the

[Oct. 12,

Past Grand Mast.er OoNXLIN present.ad the followin g :-

Which was unanim ously concurr ed in.
The M.·• W. ·. Grand Master declared the installa tion of Grand
Officers in order; and, at the request of the Grand Master- elect
his
appoint ments fo.r the ensuing year were read by the Grand Secreia
r,,
as follows : for
Grand Chaplain , . .. . . . , ... 13ro. GEORGE EDWARD WAi.x, ... ... of
San Franciac o;
Grand Orator,. .... . .... . . " J AOOB VooRSANOBR, .. . .. . .... "San
Francilc o;
.ABsistant Grand Secretary , " ANDREW JACKSON HARB, . . ... . "Lorin;
Grand Lecturer , . . . . . . . • . . .. WILLIA.H ERSKINE SLOAN, •. ... "
E lainore;
Grand Marshal, . .. . . . . . . " EDWARD SWIFT WEST, . . •• .... "
Santa Crw ;
Grand Standard Bearer, .. . " HOWELL AUBREY POWELL, • . .. . "
Oa/d0111d;
Grand Sword Bearer.. . . • . • " HENRY CALOUT KKYEB, .... . . .. "
Stockton ;
Grand Bibla Bearer,.. ... . . " JEROME BONAP'TE RIOHARDBON, "Suisun
;
Senior Grand Deacon,. . . . • " •WILLIAM MONROE PETRIE, ••. . "Sacram
ento ;
Junior Grand Deacon,. . ... " RALPH Low11:, •. .••.. .. .. . .• . • "San
Joae;
Senior Grand Steward, . ... " JAMES FRANKLIN BEDFORD, . .. "Anden
on;
Junior Grand Steward, .. .. " J AMES FREDERICK DB.AKE, . ... . "-ReQ.lan
da ;
Grand PUt11uivant, . , ... ... " J OSEPH BAILEY CooKB, . . . .. ... "
Colusa;
Grand Organist , . . . . . • . . . . " SAMUEL DAVID MAY.RR, .•... . . . "
San Franciaco;
Grand Tyler, • . . . . . . . . . . . " JAMBS 0GLB8BY, .. ... .. . . . .. .. "
San Francisco.

The Grand Officers were then duly installe d in their several
stations and places by Grand Master JAMES BAUNTY STEV!i:NS, assisted
by Past Grand Master hVAH RusSELL CONKLIN as Master of
the
Oeremonies.
The Grand Master announ ced the appoint ment of the Standin
g
Oommi ttees for the ensuing year, as follows : On Jiwisprutknce ;
Bro. Nathanie l Greene Curtis,
" Wiley James Tinnin,
" Hiram Newton Rucker,
" William J ohnston,
" Alvah Russell Conklin.

Bro. Jacob Hart Neff,
" Henry Hay Knapp,
" Charles Lewis Patton,
" Edward Sharp Valentin e,
" Charles E Stone.

Bro. William Abraham Davies,
" Marion Albert Menlt68,
" Samuel Man'chester,
" Andrew Young,
" Channey Carroll Bush.

On Grievancei:
Bro. William Sewall Wells,
" William Thomae Reynolds ,
" Edward Reese Thompso n,
" Frank Kavanag h Lippitt,
" Francis Ellswort h Baker.

On .Returna:
Bro. Thomae Jefferson Shacklef ord, .
" Stanley Andrew Smith,
" John Walter Boyd,
" Goorge Woodbu rn Nicol,
" William Henry Curson.

On Pay of Members
Bro. Orrin Staples Henderso n,
" Leander Warren Tracy,
" Byron Ball,
" James Louis Barham,
" Jacob Franklin Boller .

He also announ ced the appoint ment of Bro. WILLIA)[ JOHNSTO
N,
P . G. M., as a membe r of the Board of Trustee s Ma.sonic Widows
' and
Orphan s' Home, vice THOMAS KYLE, resigne d, and Bros. NATHAN
IEL
GBEENE OUBTIS, CHARLES L~WIS PATTON and FRANK MABION ANGEL·
LOTTI, v.ice themsel ves, terms expired .
The Grand Secreta ry reporte d that the three Lodges to which char·
t.ers had been granted at this Oommunica.tion would be number ed,
and
are located as follows :Whittier, No. 823, at Whittier , Los Angeles County;
(J(Jl"ona., No. 32.1, at Pasadena , Los Angeles County ;
CoMUUo, N o. 325, at Escondid o, San Diego County.

He also reporte d that, of the two hundred and sixty-on e Lodges
existing in the Jurisdic tion at the commen cement of this Oommu
nication, two hundred and twenty-five had been represe nted at some
time
during its continu ance.
The several regular and special commit tees were then called
in
their proper order; and, they present ing nothing further and
no
other busines s appeari ng, a.ft.er prayer by the Grand Chaplin
and
music by the choir, the Grand Lodge of Oa.lifornia was closed
in ·

On Accounta :
Bro. Edward Peabody ,
" William Filmer,
" Thomae Kyle,
" John M enzies Smith,
" Henry Burner.

~mpli .fonn.

•Bro. WILLUK KolOIO• l'lrrrlD:, being absent, wu, on the second day of November
1895
duly lnotalled Senior Grand Deacon, by Sacrammt
o Lodge, No. {().- Grand
&o.

On aorrupundmce :

On Financu :

To the M. •• W. •• Grand Lodge •Jf Californta :With full appreciation of the eminent and faithful services rendered
by our
retiring Grand Master, we desire to express our thanks; be it, therefore
,
.Ruolved, That the thanks of this Grand Lodge is hereby tendered
to the Most
Wol'8hipful Grand Master J,urns BA.UNTY STEVENS, for hie truly praiaewo
rtby and
efficient efforts in the discharge of bis duty, and we assure him that
in hie retirement be bears with him the best wishes of every member of the Order
within this
juriadiction.

281

(}rand, Lom;Je of OaUfornia.

1895.]

'

EDWA RD MYERS :PREST ON I
Grand Maater.

'

GEORG E JOHNSO N,
Grand Sr.craary.

282

Statement of Receipts for .Account

[Oct. 31,

1895.]

Of the. Grand Lodge of Oaliforni.a.

Gen. l!'und. Rep.l!'und.

1696.

STATEMENT
Of Receipts by the Grand Seoretary, for aocount of the Grand Lodge, during the
quarter-year ending on the 3l~t day of October, A. L. 5895.
Gen.Fund. Rep.Fund.
$28 50
$ 6 50

1895.

Aug. 1, J~erson,
1, I'.eedley,
1, Illinoistown,

"
"

.

"

1, Oakdale,
1, .Dunamuir,
1, Orland,
1, Salinas,
1, Bariford,
1, Eureka,
1, Tehama,
1, Paso Robles,
1, Pacific,
1, Ione,
1, San Simeon,
1, Na11al,
1, Bilveyvitle,
1, '.lra11er,
1, King Solomon's,
1, Stanislaus,
1, Yuba,
1, B1'tmeme,
1, Li'berty,
l, Reading,
1, Washington,
1, Calistoga,
1, Molino,
1, Marin,
1, Sierra VaUey,
1, 1£den,
1, Arcturu•,
1, Oriental,
1, Pajaro,
1, Fidelity,
2, Summit,
2, Solano,
2, Los Gatos,
2, Abell,
2, Gold Ir1ll,
2, Redlands,
2, La Fayette,
S, South West,
3, Forest,
3, Northern JAght,
s, Eel Ri11m·,
3, Friendship,
3, Aroata,

No. 97, dues in full to July 31, 1895,
.. 304.,
51,
" 275,
297,
265,

"
"

204.,
279,
16,
3,
286,
136,

80,

"

196,
87,
201,
294.,
260,
206,

,,

39:

"

811,
299,
254.,
20,
233,
150,
191,
184.,
113,
180,
14.4.,
110,
120,
112,
229,
292,
14.6,
32,
300,
126,
2S3,
66,

"
..
,,

..

,,
"
..

190,
14.7,
210,
106,

" "
,, "

U

u

"

H

" ,,

,, "

"
"

" " " "
,,

u

"

.

" "
"

tc

,,

"

,, ,,

".

,,

"

"

..

" "

,,

,,

.."
"

" "~

"

" "
,,

"

d

"

.

" " "
"·'' ,,

" "
"
"

u

" cc ,,

Cf

"

.
"

24. 50
25 50
37 25
24. 25
32 25
68" 75
50 25
4.2 00
99 75
38 50
268 00
35 25
21 00
133 25
62 50
17 25
229 115
51 75
84 25
24. 50
4.3 25
61 75
61 00
3450
39 00
62 00
18 00
68 00
93 00
168 25
88 25
231 25
22 50
55 00
4.9 50
90 50
28 50
84 50
65 75
28 50
33 00
39 75
57 00
185 00
70 00

6 50
7 50
8 75
4. 75
7 75
22 25
15 75 .
12 00
28 25
11 50
89 00
11 75
7 00
80 75
13 50
4. 75
58 75
13 25
22 75
5 50
8 75
13 25
18 00
11 50
12 00
l4 00
6 00
18 00
26 00
4.5 75
20 75
61 75
6 50

17 00
16 50
28 50
9 50
20 50
14. 25
8 50
11 00
12 25
18 00
40 00
19 00

283

No. 1, dues in full to July 31, 1895, $411 50 $120 50
Aug. 3, OaJ,ifornia,
115 75
28 25
127, " " "
3, Hermann,
" "
...
260 00
77 00
" 202.
3, Pentalpha,
227 75
68 25
188,
5, Oakland,
108 00
25 00
"
5, So. San Francisco, " 212, u "
56 75
15 25
,, "
193,
5, Fernda/,e,
14. 25
51 75
24.2, " u "
5, Magnolia,
,,
"
,,
12 50
45
50
24.3,
5, Ji)ucalyptus,
12 75
47 25
224., " "
5, Bakersfie"ld,
14. 75
46 25
95, " " "
5, Henry Olay,
,,
11 50
34. 50
236,
5, Hill's Ferry,
"
4. 25
12 75
98, ,, " "
5, Hornuos,
9 50
31 50
.. 228,
5, Athens,
5 50
19 50
" 309,
5, Delano,
4. 50
13 50
.. 289, " cc
ii, Elsinore,
"
5 50
21 50
,, 207,
5, Anaheim,
" "
9 75
30 25
173,
5, Elk Groue,
" "
7 00
21 00
235, " "
6, Surprise Valley,
"
"
,,
u
10 00
32 00
182,
6, Meridian,
6 50
19 50
" 274., " "
6, Arroyo,
"
7 50
22
50
,,
"
161,
6, Keystone,
10 00
33 00
50,
6, Forbestown,
11 25
34. 75
" 195, " "
6, Buckeye,
10 75
4.1 25
14.. " "
6, '.Thmple,
25 50
117
50
"
320,
6, South Gate,
6 75
36 25
.. 815, " "
6, Norwalk,
8 25
38 75
256,
6, Lodi,
"
18 25
65 75
101,
6, Olay,
"
"
22 50
75 50
12, ,, "
" "
6, Yount,
32 50
,,
"
103
50
38,
6, Santa Gruz,
4.3 00
152 00
"
79,
6, Humbol.dt,
" " " "
15 00
56 00
" 264.,
7, Hesperian,
"
" "
14. 50
53 50
24.5,
7, Laurel,
" "
25 75
102
25
178,
7, Phrnni;r,,
11 00
34. 00
26, " "
7,
El
Dorado,
"
10 25
45 75
194.,
7, ·Mountain View,
"
10 50
41 50
25,
7, Georgetown,
" "
7 25
30
75
"
121,
7, Ionic,
" "
10 75
47 25
295, " "
7, Mount Jackson,
8 00
33 00
.. 261,
"
7, Tusoan,
7 50
22 50
" 136,
7, Valley,
u
,,
8 50
34 50
305,
7, Azusa,
3 50
13 50
160,
6, Pilot Fill,
"
"
3 00
9 00
114., " "
6, Mount Zion,
16 00
56 00
.. 14.9, ,, " "
7, Lassen,
44. 75
156 25
"
0
so, " "
7, Gol.d61i Gate,
20 50
80 50
246, " "
7, Pomona,
"
,, "
14. 50
47 50
131,
7, Woodbridge,
"
19 25
74. 75
117, " "
7, cbncord,
4. 76
15 25
,,
56,
8, Volcano,
,, "
74 00
282 00]
" 169,
8, Mission,
"
" ,,
36.50
130 50
4.0,
8, Baoramento,

.

..

"'

..•

..

. ..

..

..

.

..
..

..

...

.

..

.

284

Stattiment of Receipts /OT .Account

1895.
Aug. 8, Union,
8, Brooklyn,
8, E.roelsit>r, •

[Oct. 31,

Gen.Fund. Rep.Fund.
No. 58, does in 11111 to Joly 31, 1895, $140 50 $ 38 50
225, " "
82 75
22 25
" 166,
"
193 50
54 50
lj, Cbrinthian,
9,
" " " "
102 50
22 50
8, Vesper,
'1 84,
" •• 11
60 oo
18 oo
8, Mendocino,
179, " " " "
54 75
16 25
8, Downey,
220, .. "
49 60
11 50
8, Monro-oia .
" 808, " "
40 25
10 75
8, Guadalupe,
" 237,
"
21 75
5 25
8, Winnedumah,
287, " "
" "
"
24 75
7 25
8, M.(Yf'fl,erey,
·u
217,
"
43 50
13 50
8, Clear Lake,
183, " " " "
27 25
6 75
8, Yolo,
81, " "
"
16 50
5 50
8, FaJJJJrook,
317, " "
15 75
4 25
9, San Joaquin,
111, "
79 50
24 50
9, Olille Branch,
269, " "
" "
"
80 25
23 75
9, Natoma,
64, " "
39 00
11 00
9, Eoening Star,
186, " "
38 60
9 50
9, Oooelo,
" 231,
"
"
20 25
6 75
85 oo
22 oo
9, Speranz.a Italianq, " 219, " "
9, Michigan Oity,
'7,
''
24 00
8 ()()
9, Ef1ergreen,
259, " "
106 25
30 75
"
9, Vacaville,
" 134, " "
"
61 25
15 75
9, Doric,
216, "
169 75
45 25
·"
9, San I>iego,
" 36,
" "
146 25
43 75
10, ~h1nklin,
143, " "
40 50
11 50
" 10, .AUuras,
248,
" "
21 75
7 25
99, " "
62 75
18 25
" 10, La (Ji-ange,
" 306, "
"
27 75
7 25
" 10, .Aahlar,
10, Yosemit.e,
133, "
6 75
2 25
61,
"
189 25
55 75
" 10, L i:ve Oak,
10, HoUenbeck,
319,
"
"
113 50
22 50
" 10, Ophir,
38,
...
31 75
9 25
" 12, Sama Barbara,
" 192,
" " •• "
61 75
17 25
12, Tl"1JAJkee,
200,
71 25
18 75
96. " "
48 50
15 50
" 12, Howard,
" 12, EnJerprise,
70, " "
84 50
26 50
55, " "
57 00
18 ()()
" 12, Suisun,
12, Western Star,
2, " "
38 25
12 75
" lll, K eith,
" 187, " "
43 75
14 25
" 12, .Amador,
65,
" .. "
42 00
13 00
12, Russian Ri'ller,
" 181,
" "
40 00
10 00
185, " " "
27 75
8 25
" 12, Claiborne,
" 12, 1rinuy,
21,
" "
"
57 25
15 75
205 , " " • "
"
41 oo
12 oo
" 12, Ner£tJil.le,
" 12, Mount Shaata,
" 281, " "
36 60
7 50
" 12, S aint J ohn's,
37, " "
"
61 00
16 00
296,
"
66 50
18 50
" 12, Sil'ller Gat6,
12, Gwson'llille,
158,
" "
29 25
9 75
" 12, Landmai·k,
U3, " "
n 2.5
·7 75
" 12, Penrhyn,
258,
18 00
6 00
12, GrafUm,
141, " "
18 00
6 00
0

1895.J

Of the (}rand Lodge of California.

1896.

Ang. 12, Oa!layomi,

12, Snow Mountain,
12, Emmanuel,
12, .Crescent,
12, Manzanita,
12, Loa Banoa,

"
"
"
"
"
''

"
"
u

"

"

"
"

12, Ot.cen1.
12, Occidental,
13, Sisson,
13, Olir.ton,
13, Campo Seco,
13, Mo.,aic,
13, North Butte,
13, Mo-unt Moriali,
13, Tholumne,
13, Morning Star,
13, Palm yra,
13, N"icolaus,
13, Ontario,
13, Colusa,
13, Ourti.8,
14, Norl.h East,
14, Madera,
14, (}rav e! Range,
14, Oa!a'lleras,
14:, Drytoum,
14, (}aU,
14, Quitman,
14, OonfWence,
14i, Harmony,

14, Santa .Ana,
" t.l, Oak (} rooe,
" U, Parfaile Uni<>n,
14, Sanger,
" 14.; Banta Rosa,
" 14:, Port.enlille,
14., Bentcia,
"
1
'

"

"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"

14., Oroville,
14i, Oh(co,
14, .Martinez,
14, King l>allid'a,
14, Ne!lada,
14, Baim Helena,
15, Madison,
'15, Woodland,
15, Ban Mateo,
15, Ban Jose,
15, Los .Angeles,
15, Crockett,
15, Sotoy0me,
15, Welcome,
15, San B enito,

285

Gen.Fund. Rep.Pon4.
No. 282, does in foll to Joly 31, 1895 $ 17 25
$ 5 75
271,
.. ..
17 25
5 75
..
22 50
4 50
318,
"
45,
21 00
7 00
32 25
102,
10 75
.. 312,
..
..
23 75
6 25
108,
" ''
14. 25
4 75
22, •• .. ..
173 25
51 75
310, " "
21 75
6 25
119,
..
16 75
5 25
" 100,
.. .. ..
17 25
5 75
.. "
..
37 25
10 75
218, .. "
37 75
11 25
" 230, .. ..
"· " ..
.. ..
•.•
208 50
56 50
8, .. ..
..
..
92 75
26 25
.. 68,
" ..
102 00
82 00
151,
62 25
18 75
.. 129, " "
62 50
16 50
301, .. 11
(3 60
13 50
40 50
240,
13 50
" "
39 75
I! 25
140,
41 25
266,
8 75
30 75
10 26
280, ci u
8 26
31 75
59,
7 25
21 75
78,
" "
16 75
4 26 .
174,
18 75
6 25
" 267,
31 25
8 75
88,
20 00
5 00
" 203,
6 75
20 25
164.,
.. 241,
91 75
24 25
''
'' ·. u
38 25
139 75
215,
26 50
90 50
17,
" "
47 25
8 75
316,
,, "
14.6 25
42 75
57,
"
11 50
48 1\0
903,
,,
5, ,, ,,
13 25
44 75
55 25
17 75
" 103,
25 00
81 00
111,
49 00
16 00
41,
22 50
70 50
209, " "
99 75
32 25
13, " " " "
16 50
49 50
93,
32 50
101 50
23. " ,, " "
19 25
.. 156,
• 66 75
60 75
17 25
168,
169 ()()
51 ()()
10,
" " "
41 ()()
156 00
42,
152 75
33 25
139, " cc " ,,
63 75
17 25
123,
4.1 00
12 00
" 255,
17 00
58 00
211,

..

..

..

..

.. ..
..

..

.,

286

Statement of Receipts /<YT' .Ac()()'Unt

[Oct. 31,

Gen.Fund. Rep.Fund.

1895.

No. 277, does in full to July 31, 1895, $ 48 25
Ang. 15, Selma,
244, " .. .. "
..
" 15, Alcatraz,
86 00
... 268, .. " " " "
15, Durant,
76 25
" 284,
••
" 15, Tyrian,
24 75
24, .. ..
"
'' 16, Mariposa,
29 00
.. 273,
" "
..
15, Anchor,
33 75
15, Te:z:as,
27 75
46, "
15, NOrth Star,
29 25
91, "
" 15, .Mountain Shad£,
33 75
18,
"
27 50
'' lfi, Rio Vista,
208,
" "
30 75
15, Vitrumus,
145, "
"
" 15, Ha.1}1JJQ,rd,
31 50
"
" 226, "
143 50
" 15, Paaadena,
" 272,
"
" 15, Santa Lucia,
31 50
" ·302, "
Cl
15, Jafl&fJille,
24 00
" 232,
16 00
" 16, Ma:i:weU,
" 288, " "
"
15 75
15, Acacia,
92,
" "
lS 75
'' 15, Orange GrOfJe,
" 293,
" 15, Aliaal,
11 25
321,
" 15, San .Buena1'entura, " 214.,
65 50
"
12 25
15, Tehachapi,
" 3l3, " " " "
" 15, GeorgeWa11hington,"
u 25
62,
42 75
" 20, Alhambra,
" 322,
40 25
20, Tabte Mountain,
124, " " " "
SB 50
21, Alamo,
" 122, " "
21 00
" 22, San Miguel,
" 285, " " "
,, ,, "
65 25
" 22, Sunaet,
" 290,
" 22, .Adin,
28 50
250, " "
49 75
23, Wilm~ngton.
" 198,
"
"
" 26, Bania Raia,
57, back dnes .. ... ....... . .... . 12 75
" 26, Temellllal,
·" 314, dnes in full to J aly Sl, 1895, 18 25
19 50
27, <J-Ontra Cbsta,
" 227,
"
"
0
22 25
27, Hiram,
48, u " u '' "
45 50
" 27, Hartley,
" 199,
" " "
229 00
28, South'n Oalifornia, " 278, " " " " "
., 28, Lompoc,
31 75
" 262, u "
"
29, Bear Mountain,
35 50
76,
" "
45 00
SO, Santa Mon(oa,
" S07, " " " " "
" 30, Bania Paula.,
50 00
" 291,
"
SO, Granite,
28 50
" 222,
30, Hope,
33 75
234:, " '' u "
Sept. 2, Bodie,
S7 75
" 252,
" "
"
2, Alameda,
71 00
" 167,
60,
S, PlumaB,
30 00
"
"
"
77, "
3, Petaluma,
47 25
"
Mokelumne .mu,
298,
25 75
"
"
249, "
6, Green1'il1AI,
10 50
83, "
6, Rising Sf,ar,
22 75
132,
9, Bi.ncwiJ,y,
15 00
10, .FrBSnO,
98 00
" 247,
21,
12, Hawaiian,
115 25
" "
IS, Antloah,
34. 75
" 176,
"
"

.. .... .. . ....
.
.
..
... .
..
..

.. ..
.. .

. ...
"

"

..

..

.

'·

...
..

.. ..

.. .

..

. .. ... .....
... . .... . ..
"
.... ... .. . .. ...
.. . . . ."

$ 13 75
25 00
19 75
7 25
9 00
10 25
7 25
9 75
9 25
7 50
8 25
8 50
31 50
7 50
8 00

5 00
5 25
4 25
s 75
18 50
3 75
'75
6 25
12 75
9 50

7 00
16 75
9 50
13 26
5 75
6 50
6 75
11 50
65 00
10 25
10 50
13 00
13 00
9 50
10 25
10 25
19 00
8 00
15 75
6 25
s 50
7 25
5 eo
29 00
9 26

1895.]

Of the Grand .Lodge of Omif<Yr'r&ia.

287

Gen.Fund. Rep.FQlld,

1895.

Sept. 14, Rose's Bar,
16, Inyo,
" 30, Whittim',
" SO, OorQftll.,
Oct. 3, Lexington,
S, Visalia,
c,
3, Oon6Uelo,
3, J!Jr,cel.Bi.or,
'' 11, Whlllier,

" 11, Oorona,
" 11, Oonauelo,

No. 89, dues in full to July 31, 1895, $ 12 00
.. '.l21, " ..
.. ..
28 75
U. D.,
" "
"
23 25
U. D., ... "
"
141 00
No. 104, " "
" "
"
30 50
128, " .. " .. ..
71 50
U.D., "
"""
2125
No. 166, dispensation to re-ballot,
10 00
323, charter to perpet'te Lodge, 50 00
324:,
"
50 00
.. 325,
..
50 00

$ 4 00
9 25
5 75
19 00
5 50
21 50
r;75

Total amounts received to 31st October, 1895, ......... $15,768 00 H,326 00
Making an aggregate sum of receipts, ..••.•.. . • $20,094 00

•
288

Mourning Page of the

Grand Loclge of California.

<!l)ia Jllontning t?ngc,

<!~ia

BY ORDER OF THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA,

289

Jlloutning tpagc,

BY ORDER OF THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA,

IS GIVEN TO THE MEMORY OF OUR BELOVED BROTHER,
IS GIVEN TO THE MEMORY OF OUR BELOVED BROTHER,

Who was born in the Town of Stockbridge, in the State of Vermont, on :
the twelfth day of December, 1820 ; and who died in the
City of San Francisco, in the State of California,
on the first day of September, 1895.
HE. WAS, DURING A PERIOD OF THREE YEARS,

!lnasb.. of co..iutfliau

~o6g~

.!lo.

lo~n .£llills JBrowne, .
Who was born in the Town of Hinsdale, State of New Hampshire, on
the tenth day of Ma1, 1831; and who died in Washington,
District of Columbia, on the seventh day of
December, 1894.

es.

HE HAD BEEN

GRAND MASTER OF THE GRAND COUNCIL R. & S. M.
AND

Grll.D:d Commander of the Grand Oommandery K. T.

HE HAD BEEN

Master of Na.val Lodge, No. 87, F. & A. M.; High Priest of Naval
Oha.pter, No. 35, R. A. M.; Venerable Master of Na.val
Lodge of Perfection, A. & A. S. R.; Grand Master
of the Grand Oonsistory; Grand High
Priest 'R. A. M.
ALL OF THIS STATE.

ALL OF THIS STATE.
AND WAS FOR THREE TERMS, FROM 1862 TO 1865,

AND WAS, J!'OR FOUR YEARS, FROM

IN THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

1875 TO 1879,

IN CALIFORNIA.

A Chief in Masonry, by none 8Uft>a88ed
Of those who followed or preceded him.

A friend, whose friends were proud of the relation,
A brother, loving, zealoue, _good and true.
·

19

290

Mourning Page of the

~~is mourning

tPngt,

Grand Lod,ge of California.

291

~u ~tmoriam.

-ffi-

BY ORDER OF THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA,

MARVIN HAMILTON DE LAMATER, P. M.
CALIFORNIA LoDGE, No. 1. ................. : .... Died June 16, 1895

IS GIVEN TO THE MEMORY OF OUR BELOVED BROTHER,

ISAAC STANWOOD LOCKE, P. M.
CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 1 ...................... Died March 13, 1895
ALONZO CONKLIN, P. M.
TEHAMA LoDGE, No. 3............................ Died July 8, 1895

Who was born in the City of New York, State of New York, on the
twenty-ninth day of June, 1834; and who died in the
City of San Francisco, State of California,
on the twenty-fifth day of June, 1895.

DOLPHUS SKINNER PAYNE, P. M.
SAN JosE LODGE, No. 10 .................... Died December 13, 1894

HE HAD BEEN

HALSTEAD STANSFIELD, P. M.
NEVADA LoDGE, No. 13 ........ :. . .....•.. Died September 12, 1894

MASTER OF MOUNT MORIAH LODGE, No. 44, F. & A. M.

PHILIPPE GABRIEL SABATIE, P. M.
Lom: LA PARFAITE UNION, No. 17 ........... : ... Died April 7, 1895

AND WAS APPOINTED

GRAND

ORATOR

In the Years 1880 and 1890.

JOHN ANDREW SPEAR, P. M.
HAWAIIAN LoDGE, No. 21 ..................•.. Died October 8, 1894
ALPHONSO MOREHOUSE, P. M.
MADISON LoDGE, No. 23 ......................... Died July 18, 1895

AND WAli, IN 1888,

Junior Oiranb Uarben
OF THE GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA.

GEORGE WASHINGTON TEMPLE, P. M.
MARIPOSA LODGE, No. 24 .••.•...•.••.......•... Died March 3, 1895
WILLIAM LOUIS REED, P. M.
GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25 ....•............... Died April 16, 1895
ELLISON LASSELL CRAWFORD, P. M.
GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25 ..................... Died June 22, 1895

Patriotic citizen, kind and faithful husband,
good friend, and worthy Mason.
Rest in peace.

. LELAND HOWARD PLAISTED, P. M.
SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35 •.•••.............. Died November 2, 1894

292

Mmuning Page of the

(}rand Lodge of OaJ,ifornia.

~u ~tmoriam.·

~u ~tmoriam.

_,"~..
4--

~

CHARLES HENRY STEVENS, P. M.
SACRAMENTO LoDGE, No. 40 ..........•.......... Died March 11, 1895
CHARLES HENRY VOLLMER, P. M.
MOUNT MORIAH LoooE, No. 44.......•...... :•. Died August 26, 1894
MARCUS DERKHIEM BORUCK, P. M.
MOUNT MORIAH LoooE, No. 44. ·...•..........•.. Died June 25, 1895
NATHANIEL DUNBAR PLUM, P. M.
Fo&BESTOWN LoooE, No. 50 ...................... Died May 18, 1895
GEORGE ASHBURY JOHNSON, P. M.
SANTA RosA LoDGE, No. 57 ...... .'......... Died September 20, 1894
DAVID HA~RIS, P. M.
UNION LODGE, No. 58 .... . ...... _................ Died June ~2, 1895
CHARLES O'HARA, P. M.
GRAVEL RANGE LoDGE, No. 59 ........ . ......... Died April 12, 1895
LEVI HARTZELL PATTY, P. M.
PETALUMA LoooE, No. 77 ........................ Died May 26, 1895
CHARLES WILLIAM LONG, P. M.
HUMBOLDT LoooE, No. 79 ....... . ...... . ........ Died May 2, 1895
GEORGE WASHINGTON WOODARD, P. M.
Yor.o LoDG11:, No. 81 ....•...•.............. Died December 23, 1894
JOHN MILLS BROWNE, P. G. M
NAVAL LoDGE, No. 87 ..................... .. Died December 7, 1894
ABRAHAM POWELL, P. M.
NAVAL LODGE, No. 87 .......................... Died April 25, 1895

293

COMMODORE PERRY YOUNG, P. M.
ACACIA LoDGE, No. 92 ......•..•........... Died.September 19,.1894
ISAAC NEWTON TEMPLETON.
HENRY CLAY LODGE, No. 95.. . .. . .. .•....... Died November 20, 1894
ALEXANDER McINTOSH, P. M.
JEFFERSON LoDGE, Ko. 97 .......•........... Died December 8, 1894
JAMES INGHAM, P. M.

PAJAR~ LODGE, No. 1fo . ........ . ..... . ......... Died April 2, 1895
WILLIAM MICHAEL THORP, P. M.
Cmco LoDGE, No. 111. ....................... Died March 28, 1895
LEON ARD WILLIAM BUCK, P. M.
VACAVILLE LODGE, No. 134 ........................ DiedJune4, 1895
ANDREW KNESS, P. M.
GRAIITON LODGE, No. 141. .. . .................... Died May 241 1895
ERNEST MORTENSEN, P. M.
PILOT HILL LoDGE, No. 160 .. .. ............. Died February 11, 1895
ALBERT HANSON, P. M.
SAN f4ATEO LoDGE, No. 168 •.•... . .•.•......... Died April 29, 1895
JOSEPH M CALDWELL, P. M.
MISSION LoDGE, No. 169 ........•.......•••. Died September 2, 1894
JAMES PETER CHRISTIESON, P. M.
MARIN LoDGE, No. 191. ................ . ...... Died March 14, 1895
ELDRIDGE EDWARD HEWITT, P. M.
W1LM1NGTON Loooz, No. 198 ..... . ... . . . ......... DiedJune 8, 1895

294

Grand Lodge of Oalifomi:a.

Mourning Page of the

295

~lt ~lemoriam.
~
MARSHALL ARNOLD, P. M.
199 .. •.... . .•...• . ..•..• . . . •. .. ....... . . 1894

~TLEY Looog,· No.

THEODORE REISER, P. M.
ANAHRIM LoooE, No. 207 .................. Died November 19, 1894

AN ALMANAC OF FULL MOONS, ETC.

ANTONIO DANER!, P. M.

FROM 1895 TO 1899, INCLUSIVE.

SPERANZA ITALIANA LoooE, No. 219 ......... Died December 13, 1894
(Copied from the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Iowa, i 893. )

ORRIN HARTWELL BUTLER, P. M.
SOLANO LoDGE, No. 229 . .•. .• •. .. . . .... . . . . . . . Died April 24, 1895
EMANUEL BRIGGS MORGAN, P. M.
NoRTH BUTTE LoDGE, No. 230...•.. .. ...•.••.... Died Juue 23, 1895
ALBERT MYRON BENTLEY, P. M.
CovELO LoooE, No. 231. .... ..... ..... . .......... Died May l, 1895
ALBERT GALLATIN ANTHONY, P. M.
A.LcATRAZ LoooE, No. 244 .. .. . ... . . . ....... ..... . . Died April 3, 1895

JOHN MORGAN ROWLAND, P. M.
Loni LoDGE, No. 256 ........•.•........ .. .. Died December 21, 1894
JULIUS LUDWIG KOETHEN, · P. M.
EVERGREEN LoDGE, No. 259 . ... . .• . ...... , .... Died October 5, 1894

JAMES BRAINARD H ENLEY, P. M.
DURANT Lonox, No. 268 .................... Died November 26, 1894

RUFUS MYCAJAH COCHRAN, P. M.
SISSON LoooE, No. :no .... ... .. .. .... .. .... Died September 12, 1894

AMMER PERSONS, P. M.
S1ssoN LoooE, No. 310 ...... . . .. ...... ... .... Died January 28, 1895

._
>
c:
>

"'
Year.

~

..,

II.,

c:
>

.,
:<

;;::

.,
n

>

=

.,..>
;::

a: ._c: ._...,.,
':'
""' "'
>

>
c:
Cl
c:

..."'

;::.. 0 z
....... ...,..... ..~ I!.." .,..,"'~ .,.....>"' ""'"'
0
.... .... >a
..""
"'
':'
(Jl

n
0

ii:

0

ii:

l'1

t:l

n

ii:

- - -- -- - - -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -Fr. -Sa. M. w. w. Fr.
s. M. w. Fr. Sa. M. Apr. Apr. May
1895

II

9

8

7

5

4

4

WTh Th.

S.

M.

Tu.

Th.

Fr.

S.

Tu.

W.

Fr.

S.

1 30

27

29

27

26

25

24

23

22

2I

2~

20

3

5

14

18

17

18

17

16

14

14

12

II

IO

9

9

16

18

37

29

28

28

8

10

19

17

17

31

II

9

12

14

3

---- - - ---- - - - - - ---------------108

Apr. Apr. May

---- --- -- ---M. ----- -- - - - ---- - 1897 M. ~· Th. Sa.
S.
W. Th. Sa.
S. Tu. Th. Apr. Apr. May
- - S,::1898

s.

Tu. -;:-

h h. s. Tu. Th S. Sa. M. -;:- Apr. Apr. May

8

6

8

6

6

4

27

25

27

25

25

23

I

--- -- -- - - -- -- -- -- -- - - - - --- -- -1899 h . Sa. M. Tu. Th. Fr. Sa. M. Tu. W. Fr.
S. Mar. Apr. May
22

21

19

18

II

296

Returns of the Subordinate Lod{/e,s

[Aug. 1,

R ET ·U RN S
OF THE

SUBORDINATE LODGES
UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
For the Yea1 to August 1st, A. L. 6896.

CALIFOR NIA LODGE,

No. 1.

San Franol..,o. San Franelaco ((oanty.

Stated Meetings, firat Thuraday in each month.
OFFICER!!11

Ernest Herbert Hills, Senior Deacon,
Edward William Peabody, Malter,
George Knight White, Ju·nior Deacon,
Henry Ascrot't, Senior Warden,
William Graham Brown, Jun. Warden, George Weldon Spiller, Marshal,
d8
Henry Philip Umhsen, t St
Hermann Franklin Muller, 'lreaaurer,
f ewar '
Henry Willis Adams,
Franklin Henry Oay, Secretary,
William Warren Coleman, 'l'y"ler.
Paet Maateru
Robert Henry Barclay,
George Lyman Grimes,
William Henry Lyon,
Edward Waterman Roberta,
R.o bert MoMillan,
William Mason Rundell,
William Thoma~ Reynolds, Gnstavns Langford Spear, William Oliver Gould,
James Oglesby,
Edward Peabody,
John McComb,
Morris March Eatee,P.G.M .,Hermann Franklin Maller, Tom Adam~on Brown,
Frank Worthy Cushing,
Charles Lewis PattcJO,
Franklin Henry Day,
James Lafayette Cogswell,
William Thomas Fonda,
George Johnson,
Francis Mari~n Hackett,
Edward Engle Eyre,
Abraham Halsey,
George Tisdale Bromley, William Edward Smit.h,
John Henry Dickinson,
Charles Medley Dougherty, Artemas Web8ter,
Peter Thomas Barclay,
Joseph Claybaugh McKee,
Oharles Palmer Chesley,
George Ohilds,
John Elisha RnBBell,
John Kirkpatrick,
George Diette'rle,
Richard Stephen Culverwell.
Edward Tyrrel Bisset Mills, Charles D Wilson,
Stephen Wing,
Edward.Pott er Cressey,
MASTER MASONS :

Adair, Charles .James
Ahlgren, Charles Frederick Athearn , Charles Grandison
.A very, William Henry
Adams, CharleR Hitchcock Alexander, Wm. Stanley
Rabcock, John ·Pease
Adams , Ueorge Perrin
Ames, George Eli&B
Ade, George William
Bachelder, Charles Sumner
Archer, Jamee, Jr.
Ager, John Edward
Badlam, Alexander
Ash, Robert

1895.J

'Io the Grand Lo1lge of Oalifornia.

297

O"ttarinich, Joseph Ferd. Elliot, Charles Emery
Baker, Charles Henry
Elliot, John P
Baldwin, Frederick Albert ·Ohaph1, ,Din1more Davis
Ellison, Joseph Reid
Baldwin, Sherman Oharlee Ohnrohlll, Olark
Elwert, Charles Philip
Bandmann, Charles Julius Olark, John Franklin
Emerson, Sylvester
Clary, William Henry
Bannister, Alfred
Evans, Joseph John
Barnes, RobertLawre nceO,Cline, Henry Angostos
Evans, William Thomas
Coleman, Carlton Chinn
ijarnes, William Sanford
Everett, Oliver
Colvin, Hugh
!tattersby, James
Comstook,Jo hn FeltOsgood Farquharson, David
Banm, David Andrew
Feely, Patrick Henry
Baomeister,B ernhart Her'n Cook, J oho Jay
Cora wall, P ierre Barlow Fensier, Clarence Louis
Beck, Charles Adam
F~rgnson , George Harrison
Beckedorff', Geo. H'y Lewis Oox, Henry
.
Fiddes, George
Craig, Robert Lee
Bell, Newton Mercer
Fielding, Sl\mnel Mar100
Crim, William Henry
Bell, William Troup
Crocker, Charles Frederic Finck, Joline .
Uengtson, John
Firth, Joseph Kirk
Crocker, Henry Joseph
Benson, John Adelbert
Fish, Edward Nye
Crocker, William Henry
Binning, Charles
Cummings, Walter Bailey Fisher, Wm. Charles Henry
.Black, Howard
Fleming, Joseph Frederic
Cushing, Gharlas Davis
Black, Orlow
Foster, William Barrett
Blackman, Arthur Manning Daggett, John Randolph
Fowler, William Henry
Dall, Peter Peterson
Blake, Alfred Edward
Frank, John
Dalton, Franklin
\!lake, Charles Edward
~'ranklin , Max John
Blake , Edward Preabrey Dalton, Thomas Benton
Fraser, Bugh
Blossom, Henry Eckford Daniell, Willil\m Henry
Fretwell, Edwin
DavlR, Jacob Zeigler
Bocarde, Jamee Blain
Gabbs, Albert Steph. Isaiah
Davis, Milo 8mith
Boo bar, James Guptill
Garibaldi, Stephen Joseph
Dean, Peter
Boole, Fred Warren
DeConlnck, Frank Camille Garnett, Lonie Anacbarsis
Bowman, John Schmerl
Bradbury, Alfred William DJering, Thomas Patrick G11rniss, James Rogers
Gawne, Wal~er Whitfield
Dewey, William Pierce
Bradrick, Isaac
Uelssler, Edward Angust
DeWitt, Thomas .Byron
Bragg, Robert
Gere; Ueorge Grant
Dippel, William Gnstav
Brett, John Robinson
Giiison, John
Dobler, Ohules
Brice, William
Glenson, George Ruggles
Dodd, Willis Gorman
Bridge , William Edward
Goewey, James Monroe
Doolittle, Jelferson Ely
Brink, Chl\rles Henry
Dorn, Diademus Socrates Golcher, Henry Coughlin
Brittan, Nathaniel Jones
Golcher,~Wllliam James
Dow, George Edwin
Brown, Arthur Pa11e
Good, John
Brown, Frederick William Dowling, Thomas Henry
Goodban, Francis Edward
Driscoll, Daniel Oliver
.Brown, Henry Adams
Dnboce, Victor Donglaim Graham, Gernld Oakeley
Brown, Roland Chir
Gray, George Freeman
Brown, William Anderson Duffie, Christopher Wm.
Oray, Harry Nathaniel
Duncan, Emile
Brown, William Spence
Gray, Robert Brockhouse
Donoan, James Wesley
Brnmagim, Mark
Green, Oharles Ernest
Donn, James
Buckbee, Charles Alvah
Greenhood, Bngo Oscar
Easton, Ansel Milla
Bullivant, Herbert Ellis
Griffin, John Wesley
Bullivant, Thoma~ Eugene Eastwood, Joseph
Griffith, John Beruth
Eckart, William Roberta
Bonker, Paul
Grundel, Axel Herman
Eddy, Richard .d
• Bnnk~r, Robert Elmer
Hagmaier, Charles
Edwards, Frede~ick .J ay
·
Borden, Wilson
Hall, Robert
Edwards, Justus Huff
Borgese, O•car Oti~
Hamilton , Hiram Milton
Edwards, Rodney Miller
Borke, M"rtin John
Hammond, Rich. Pindell, Jr.
Effinger, John Henry
Bushell, Alfred
Hand, William Mulford
Ellert, Levi Richard
Oampbell, Vernou

298

Returns of the Subordinate Lodge,s

[Aug. 1,

Hansen,Carl Chris. Antonin Landers, John
Munch, Robert
Hanssen, Olaf Jorgan
Landgrebe, Robert George Murdock, George Leonard
Hardy, Thomas Henry
Lane. William Edmund
Murdock, Henry James
Haskell, John Mace
Lawson, Anarew
Mnrgatroyd, Ben
Hauxliurst, Samuel Weeks Leinhardt, John
Marschel, Albert
Haven, Charles Dwight
Leviston, William
Nagel, Louis Mortimer
Heald, Edward P11yson
Libby, Warren Thompson Nash, Charles
Helm, William James
Litchfield, Joseph Miller
Neal, Charles Sanders
Heyer, William Christopher l.oane, Francis Marion
Nelson, William Henry
Heywood, William Brewer Locke, Hollis Maine
Newman, George Howard
· Hill, Isaac Leroy
Long, Seely Frederick
N oonen, J oho
Hilton, Joseph Henry
Lucas, John William
Norris, William
Hoffman, Henry Nathaniel .M.acSherry, Howard
Noteware, Edwd. Wash'ton
Hogan, Chas. Oonstantine Malmgren, Niles Peter
O'Brien. Thom.as V
Hopkins, Mathew Leander Mann, Azro Levi
Oliver, Francis Bruce
Hotaling, Anson Parsons Marshotz, Leon Charles
Orne, William Henry
Rowe.rd, Charles Webb
Martin, Minor Silas
Otersen, Herman
Howard, Horace Zereh
Marvin, Frank William
Parker, Edward Fletcher
Howes, Cyrus Pierce ·
Marye, George Thomas, Jr. Parker, Harvey Drnry
Hubbard, Henry Calvin
Massey, Henry Allen
Panlsen, Jul's Peter Bendix
Hob bard, Thomas Jay
Mathews, Arthnr Wellingt'n Payne, George Lingard
Huested, Ot'Bon Justus
Mathewson, John
Payne, Warren Ritch
Huff, Abram
Man, William Frederick
Peck, John Edward
Hnghes, John Clarence
Mayer, St1.muel David
Peel, Robert Thomas
Hurley, John
McConnell,ChalmersNewt'n Pendletott, Edwin Street
Itseli, Andrew Jackson
McCullough, H.V11n SchaiokPeterson, Arthur Simison
Jacoby, Julius Herman
McCnrdy, Daniel
Phillips, Nathan Frazer
Jam~s, Frank
McDonald, James Monroe Phillips, William Rippard
JeffE\TS, Milo Sidney
McFarlene, Peter Dunn
Piper, William Adam
Johnson, Mathias
Mc Faul, Cliarles Lincoln
Platt, Horace Garvin
Johnson, Oocar Stephanus Mcintosh, Isaac Robins
Plum, Charles Mortimer
Johnston, Charles Robert Mc Lane, George Milligan Plnm,Charles Mortimer, Jr.
Jones, Oyrus Winship
McLean, James Plumb
Plummer, Alvin
Jones, Henry haac
McNear, Geo. Washington Pond, James Louie
Jones, Stephen Orville
Mc William•, John Adam
Porter, Abel Willard
Jones, William Price
Meigs, Anson Woodman
Porterfield,.Ioseplt Holiw'n
Jones, William Roderick
Mentz, John Henry
Powers, Frank H
Kahles, Frank
Merrill, John Francis
Preston, John
Kelso, John
Milling, William
Rasmussen, Peter
Kimball, Moses Coombe
Mills, Frederick Clinton
·Redmond, William John
Kimble, Liston
Mills, William Lucas Bisset Reed, Wallace Weller
King, Joseph Libbey
Mitchell, John Samuel
Reid, James 'William ·
Kinne, Charles Mason
Mohrhardt, Philip Frederic Renner, George
Kirk, Robert
Moore, Andrew
Renz, William
Kirkpatrick, Thomas
Moore, Charles Cadwell
Reynolds, Frank Bailey
Klein, John Eu ward
Moore, Charles Parker
Richardson, Ernest Jamee
Kmght, George Alexander Moore, Robert 8
Riess, John William
Koenig, Anton
Moore, William Lewie
Riordan, Thomas Daniel
Koenig, Frank
Moormann, Julius Christi.a Roberts, Stephen Neal
Kohler, Henry
.111.orey, Ellwood Perry
Robertson, John Prince
LaGrange, Millard F.
Morgan, John Stillwell
Robinson, William Charles
Lamb, Elbridge Gerry
Morrison, Wm. Hamilton Robison, Ansel Cobb
Lamb, Thomae Jackson
Moller, John
Ross, Donald

1895.]

To the Gram Lodge of Oalifornia.

299

Van Loven, Hermon
Rowell, Leonard Freeland Spruance, John
Stadtfeld, Jacob
Vogel, Edward John
Ralofson, Alfred Corrie
Von Staden, George
Russ, Hen.ry Beauchamp Stanton, Leon Ir~n~e
Starbird, Albion Wilson
Wadsworth, Charles CnrtiR
Rossell, Alexander
Stearns, William Henry
Wagner, Angnst Henry
Rossell, Monson
Steers, Edward Everett
Walker, James Greig
Ryn.n, Michael
Stetson, William Wirt
Warburton, Samuel
Sanborn, Albion Irving
Sa.anders, George Henry Stevens, William Emerson Ward, Wiiliam
Stevenson, Edward Alex. Watson, John Park
Schmidt, Louis
Stevenson, John
Weed, Merritt Herman
Scott, Walter Amos
Strong, George Josiah
Weeks, John Allard, Jr.
Searle, J11.mes John
Stobb~, William Edgar
Weil, John Perez
Sharpe, Jo.mes Stuart
Sudden, Robert
Wells, A•a Reynolds
Shaw, Stephen William
Swain, Edward Robinson
Wentz, John Joseph
Shiels, William
Sweara, William Bernard W~stcott, Otis Harten
Simpson, James
Sweeny, Thomas Underhill West, Robert Bachman
Sinn, John George
Swift, Jamee Flitcroft
Whaley, Edward Elliott
Sjoberg, Andere Gustaf
Taylor, Charles Litt.le
Wheaton, Milton Alverd
Slack, Charles William
Taylor, Henry Huntly
Whittle, Henry
Slater, John Charles
Taylor, John
Wilkie, Andrew
Smith, Ferdinand
Thompson, Frederick Wm. Will, Frederick Adolph
Smith, Francis
Tboifison, John Tobin
Wilmans, Stephen Caleb
Smith, Frank
Thrall, Henry Homer
Williams, Wilham Avery
Smith, George Strait
Tilton, Charles Stephen
Wilson, William Archibald
Smith, Harry Gardiner
Winders, John Robert
Smith, Henry Alexander Tisdale, Robert Francis
Titchworth, Casper
.
Woodbury, \~arren Dean
Smith, Herbert
TompkinP, Minthoroe Mort. Woodeum? Ohver Perry
Smith, James D
Towne, Arthnr Gowing
Woodward, Albert Pearson
Smith, James Jerome
Wray, Samuel
.
Smith, William Frederick Trask Freeman
Trephagen, William Arthur Wright, Charles ~illiam
Smith, "William Jacob
Wright, Cyrus Smith
Somers, George Burbank Tubbs, Hil'am
Turner, James Frederick Wright, Newton
' Boule, Arthur Calvin
Unger, Adolph
Yoong, Shirley Trever--48'J.
Spence, Abel Strain
FELLOW CRAFTS:

Eddy, Nelson Butler
Larken, Jamee Frederick

Madden, Wilkes Cuyler

Vaughan, Hiram G-4..

ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Gibson, James Spaulding
Hosmer, Harrie Bordley

Prey, o~car Franklin
Purdie, George

Ramsdell, Harry Vinton
Williams, Frederick--6.

WITHDRAWN:

Allison, Frank James

McClure, Elias Lowe

Peckham, Wm. Henry-3.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Harding, John
Hawley, Eugene Watson

Stone, Frank Melzar

Williamson, J oho Marshall
-4..

DIED:

De I,amater, Marvin H.
Holt, Andrew Jackson
Kennedy, Prank

£,ocke, Isaac Stanwood
McGann, Patrick Henry
Pierce, Owen

Taylor, John Frank
Yoong, ,Jacob McClure-8.

300

Retwrm of tile SvlJordinaJe Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

'lo the Grand Lot!<Je of California.

301

Past Dlaaters:

WESTERN STAR LODGE, No. 2.
Sh•eta, l!ihasl• County.

Stated Meetings, Satur<j-ag oj or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Paat Mastera1
.Alex. Robertson .Andrews Frank Peck Satterlee,
' James Lee Richardson.
'Joseph Weil,
MASTER MASONS :

.Andrew, William
Reel, Louis
Keasler, John Calvin
Bander, John Peter
Rosevear, ·samnel John
McDonald, Bernard
Belli Joseph Evans
Rnmfeldt, .Anguetne
McDonald, Luke
Bickford, William Henry McDonald, Peter
Scott, John Varner
Boswell, .Andrew Jackson McKeag, William
Sbuffieton, Hngb Hall
Bossyns, John
Nicholas, Thomas William Sooter, John
Bunnell, Henry Jey
Obradovich, Samuel Milo Strode, George Orone
Oarpenter, John
Overmeyer, Ohnrles Edwin Sweeny, Edward
Oongherty, John M
Warfield, Robert
Perryman, Thomae John
French, John Alexander
Weil, Lec.pold
Radulovich, Christopher
William
Garden, John
Whitney, Walter Adams
Reagan, James
'
Gillespie, J oho
Wilson, Henry Ellis-61.
Recardo, John D
James, Charles Henry
RESTORED:

WITHDRAWN:

Reagan, James-I.

Dobroweky, Adolpb-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Greene, Thomaij

Frederick Conrad Stober,
Peter Durno,
Cla1·ence Newton Nelson,
William Hewson Davie,

Thomae Mal'ia Bittanconrt,
Elbridge La Fayette Hawk,
George William Railton,
Abram John Vermilya.

'MASTER MASONS:

Frank Peck Satterlee, Senior Deacon,
Jarues Lee Richardson, .Master,
Everett French Orocker, ,lunior Deacon,
~:;ett Scranton, .Seni~r Warden,
Horace Wier Green, Marihal
. ~ Sale Strode, Junior Warden,
l
Wilham Alexander Bo•well, 'lreasurer Morrie Mehon
' Wilhelm Kelln~r, f 8teUJard1,
Daniel Potter Bystle, Seoretary,
Gunther Fred. O. Schroeter, Tyler.
.
Daniel Potter Bystle,
· Olay Webster Taylor, P.G.M.
Morris Mehon,

.Joseph Richard Webster,
William Wilcox Sim,
William Buckley Davis,
Perrin Stanton,
Robert Oscar Oravens,

Plumb, Mayne

Syme, John-3.

Pearson, John Lewis
Givens, Charles Stuart
.Allen, John Morwood
Philip, Robert
Gottlieb, Samnel
Barrett, Isaac Thomas
Pike, Benjamin Franklin
Harper, Thomae
Bergman, Frank
Pike, John Elias Tncker
Hasneee, Frank
Briggs, .Alfred
Poorman, Samuel
Hanh, John
Briggs, Wallace ,Alvin
Potter, Lyme M
Brown, Charles Manning · Hawk, Owen Dowd
Roberts, John Henry
Heck, John
Blne, Myron Booker
Heintzelman, Taylor Wash. Rohrer, Frederfok William
Bnrnett, Augustns
Calderwood, Job Francis Hotchkiss, Fred. Spencer Rosenfeld, Simon
Hob bard, Oyrns Hayden Rnbetaller, Frank
Caselli, Ansono
Ryan, John
Hobbs, Anthony
Champlin, Nelson
Schaefer, Christian
Obapman, Bernard Henry Hyman, Daniel
Schennert, Carl Emil
Chapman, George Warren Hyman, Jdcob
Scott, Thomas Jamee
Church, William Smithers Jacknfan, Samuel Hason
Jackson, William Franklin Sim, Edgar William
Chrisman, Elmer Judson
Johnson, Angnet Galmer Skelton, John
Coleman, James Owen
Strader, Harvey Winton
Onthbert, William Williams .Johnston, Alfred J
Knox, William Frederick Stoll, Benjamin Franklin
Cnnniogbam, Thomae
Stobbs, John L
Kunz, Peter
Denison, Ell Sherwin
Thompson, James Elsworth
Leonard, Carl A
Derman, Geo.,.ge Lon ls
Littlefield, Lewis Bateman Todd, John William
Dowd, Ephraim Spencer
De Pny, Edward Spencer Marsh, George . Whitfield Tubbs, Henry Osmond
Tuft@, Albert Currier
Marty, Joseph
Domfogos, John
Ulp, Alfred
McBrown, John
Dresher, Valentine
McDonald, Richard Hayes Walther, William Rodolph
Drew, Warren Francis
Weinreich, Charles Edward
McKay, James
Eilers, TbeQdore George
Weinreich, Henry
Foye, Wm. Robinson Smith Merrell, Isaac Lambert
Willard, David Wright .
·
Metzger, Benjamin
Prommelt, Bngo
Wratten, James Edward
Mitchell, William
Gallatin, .Albert
Gamble, Henry De Forest Painter, .Andrew Jackson Woodboro, Charies Gabriel
Gett, William .Andrew, .Jr. Payne, Jeremiah Newton Wood, Thomae-US.
RESTORED:

TEHAMA LODGE, No. 3.

Cravens, Robert Osoar-1.

Saerame1tto, Sacra01ento County.

DIED:

Stated Meetings, ft.rat Monday in eacli month.

Light, William Wayland
Bergevin, Nelson Langevin Hampton, William A
Humphreys, Henry Blanchard Woodburn, Geo. Madison
Oonklin, Alonzo
-6.

OFFICERS 1

John William Geeslin, Senior Deacon,
Frank ~ytle Thirkield, Master,
Wm. Elias John Baughman, Ben. Wal'llen, Isaac Joseph Junior Deaoon
Abram John Vermilya, Marshal, ·
Charles Richarrl Gose, .Tun. Warden,
l
Thomas Ferriter
- - - - - -, 7i ea11t1.rer,
_ _ ---- _ ·_._ f St,etoard1,
William Buckley Davis, Secretary,
George Frederick Bronner, Tyler. '
·

302

Returns of the SubordinaJ,e Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1895.] ·

1o the Grand Lodge of Oali{ornia.

303

rail M1Hl.. rs'

*BENICIA LODGE, No. 5.
Benicla, Solano County.

Stated Mutinga, first Wedneaday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edwio Estey, Senior Deacon,
Alvio Stooe Parritt, .Master,
Charles Stewart, Junior Deacon,
Richard Newmark, Senior Warden,
Lother Diosmore, Marshal,
Willlam Fox, Junior Warden,
l St rd1
Oharles Kiog,
Allan Page Sanhoro, 7reaSt.1rer,
Frederick Philip Welomann, Secretary, John De Forest, f ewa '
Samoel John °Filer, Tyler.
Pout Masters:

.!.llao Page Saobom.

J oho Frasier,
Edwio Estey,

Otis Kimball Freemao,
Thomas McKay,

M.ASTER MASONS:

Bleuler, Emil
Billiogs, Elmore Myron·
Oall'rey, Edward James
Oamphell, John Robert
Ohaodler, Adolph
Ohlsholm, Aogos
Ohisholm, Daniel
Ohisholm, Keooeth.Heory
Domer, Charles
Fergosoo, Alex. Sanford
Finch, .J oho Newman
Frame, Sidoey
Bahn, Heory Oaspear

Remiogton, James Kellogg
Haines, Barte Alleo
Robert•, William
Johnsoo, Baroey
Roeger. John
Johoson, Joeeph Green
Bharfenberger, Jobo
Johoston, Slmoo
Smith, Matthew Joho
Klnstrey , Thomas
Smith, HWatson
Lepper, William Peoo
Smith, James Ambrose
McArthnr, Murdock
.McKeozie,James Buchaoan Thompson, George Heory
Westoby, Richard
McKay, William
Wettsteio, Andrew
Moore, l,ewis William
Will, Aodrew Jacksoo
Morton, Elijah
Williams, Morgan
Mnller, Koorad
Wilsoo, Andrew Joho-58.
Rankin, Simon George

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

WITHDRAWN;

Atwood, Lewis Chester-1.

Piercy, Arthnr Thomas-1.

Ieaac Newtno McColloch,
James Bell,
William Giles Long,
William Davis Newton,
Bolomoo Beoas,

Wioslow Hubbard,
Edwio Aldrich Rodgers,
Tryoo Milton Yaocey,
Edward Keil,
J oho Francis Rooney,

Frank Wiisoo Street,
Everard Sharrock,
Eugene Moller,
Henry Olay Oalhonn,
Clareoce Bntler Hawley.

MASTER MASONS:

Patterson, Archibald
Hampton, Joseph Moore
Adams, Heory
Harrlman,';Jllartin Buxtoo Patterson, Geo.John Hnrd.
Amy, Olauue Beooit
Penrose, Edward Rippon
Aothooy, David Ritchard Haskins, Joseph
Peters, Joseph
Hender, Samuel Joho
Anthony, Edward Reese
Pinto, Adolph
Hill, Francis Heodersoo
Ascha, George Franklio
Priest, William Cadmus
Inch, Richard
B&.rter, George
Jarvis, Leonard Fitz-Edward Requa, James Edgar
Billings, Samuel Moses
Reuter, Gustav Samuel
Jeokins, Richard
Browo, Gurdon
Richey, Aylmor
Jenklos, William Henry
Oallluao, William
Roose, Joho Alexander
Johnsoo, Andrew Porter
Ohote, Richard
Roodell, Robert Edward
Jolly, John
Colby, Alonzo
Scholer, Henry
Keith, John Wilsoo
Ooorad, Frederick
Keooey, William Augustus Sharwood, William
Cowie, John
Soulsby, Benjamin
Kirlwood, James
Darrow, William
Speraro, Angelo
Krause, Wilhelm
Devoto, Beory Joseph
Staoley, Horace Martio
Laog, Charles Edward
Dick, Samuel
Stoker, Jacob Richard
Leoo, Samuel
Duchow, Joho C~arles
Loftus, Edward Clarence Street, Charles Edw11rd
Forsterliog, Lonie
Tnroer, William Fraocis
Lowery, Simeoo
Fraocis, Robert
Torner, William Liocolo
Lusigoao, Fraocis
Fuchs, John
Vial, Joho
McKenzie, Dooald
Foller, Monroe James
Mead, Gilbert Llviogston Welliogtoo, Henry
Fuock, Samuel
Mitchell,:Frederick Fr.iocis West, Joho Henry
Gallot, Victor
West, Tbomus Otho
Mundorf, Joho
Gould, Elisha Tolmao
Witt, Thomas Jeffersoo
Nicholas, Jooathan
Gray, Joho Adams
Williams, John-105.
Goereoa, Louis Alexaoder Oakes, William Con
Parsons, Edmond
Hale, George Webb
FELLOW CRAFTS:

Shine, Jobo Heory

Fitch, Charles Scoville
Prestoo, Howard Alvio

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

TUOLUMNE LODGE, . No. 8.

Pickle, Joho Hughson-1 •.

Sonora, Tuolu1nne 'county•

.J

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Witney, John Lorrin-4..

DIED:

Rudorll', William Gostav-2.

Byrd, Francis Ja.hew

OFFICERSt

Orltteoden Hamptoo, Senior Deaaun,
George Woodburn Nicol, Master,
William White Eastman, Ju.nior Deaaort,
William Glasson, l:Jenior Warden,
Oharles Heory Burdeo, Junicw Warden, Tryon Miltoo Yaocey, Marshal,
da
l Sf,
Thomas Al'tbor Stiles Header, TreaSt.1rer, John Lawson,
Leooard Kahl, Jr. f ewar '
Thomas Washingtoo Wells, Sear,etary ,
Abraham Barlow, 7)/ler.
•Bra. WILLIA¥ A CROSBY wae raised September 6tb, 1894, and witbdlew November 8tb
1894; coneequently name doe• not appear in ll1t. ThiE uote is made as a matter of record,_:
GNndS.c.

CORINTHIAN LODGE, No. 9.
Mar)'eTille, Yuba County.

Stated Meetings, fir4t Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS1

William Thomas Phipps, Senior Deacon,
Frank B Miller, Master,
Normao Walter Ha.II, Junior Deacon,
Soloman Lewek, Senior Warden.
Oliver Otis Howard Campbell, J. Warden, William Harvey Nelsoo, Marshal,
l Steuiarda
Isaac Giballe Cohn,
Alexander Cameroo Irwin, TreaSt.1rer,
'
Harry Stewart Chattertoo, f
George Roberts Eckart, Searetary,
John George McLellao, Tyler.

304

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1895.]

305

Past Mastera:
Past Masters:

Wm.Oaldwell Belcher,P.G.M., Meyer A Marcase,
William Flint Peacock,
William Caldwell Swain,
Lemnel Trescott Crane, William Andrew Lowrey,
Norman Donning Rideout,
Francis W.Howard Aaron, John George McLellan,
Amasa Willey White,
Henry Charles Lott,
Frank B Miller.
Alex. Cameron Irwin,
Atkins Clark Bingham,
MASTER MASONS:

Fetrow, David Ernest
Myrer, John Wesley
Abbott, Alex. Franklin
Anthony, Oharles Volney Field, Stephen Johnson
Nelson, Niles Viotor
Forbes, Edwin Alexander North, George
Armer, Max
Goodwin, Hannibal
Parker, Theodore Rosevelt
Baird, George Hall
Greely, J. Wellington
Pal'melee, James Edgar
Baker, Robert James
Barrie, John Fergason
Gwynn, William
Pengally, Robert Wiley
Belcher, Edward Angnstns Hampton, Charles Cecil
Pine, George Washington
Belcher, Isaac Sawyer
Pratt, George Albert
Hochstadter, Adolph
Prescott, Geo. Washington
Bomatter, Charles
Hochstadter, Simon
Holland, George
Price, Charles John
Boorman, Barnard Ross
Roberts, Frederic
Hudson, Edward Henry
Brain, James
Rnsby, James Orion
Burroughs, William Cart Hunter, William
Burner, Henry
Jenkins, George Lindley
Russel, Wilmer Worthington
Schroeder, Henry Ohrislian
Chase, Thoina.~
Kaufman, Jacob
. Keiser, Christian Ohristop'r Bieber, Henry Frederick
Oollier, George
Knight, David Edgar
Stalford, James Henry
Cooley, Allen
Crook, Fred Austin
Kosby, Augustus Emil
Stanwood, Richard Goss
Dougall, Thomas
Marcose, Marcos
Strain, William J
Eckart, Marcus Alger
Mayer, Christopher
Traynor, Samuel 0
Edel er, James Otto
Meek, Oscar Leonidas
Weber, Henry Victor
Ellis, William Turner
Miller, Fred. Olark
Weinlander, Edward
Euler, Adam
Miller, Herbert
White, John Comyn-90.
Fairclough, James
Mitchell, Henry Keller
FELLOW CRAFT:

Day, Frederick Henry-1.
ENTERED APPRE])lTICES : .

Barnes, Oyl·ns Anson
Coombs, Joseph Elden

Dawe, Francis Edward ·
Nash, Emory Lagrange

Wood, William Hilliard-5.

DIED:

Starr, Abraham l>nbois-1. ·

SAN JOSE LODGE, No. 10.
San Jose, Santa Clara County.

Stated Meetinge, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Ernest Woodbury Conant, Master,
Samuel Bryant Caldwell, Ben. Warden,
Elton Ream Bailey, Junior Warden,
Edward Ham Onppy, 2Teasurer,
Milton .A.mos Boulware, Secretary,
Hiram Daniel Tuttle, Ohap"lltin,

Albert King Whitton, Senior Deacon,
Frank 0 Ensign, Junior Deacon,
Clarence Haydock, Marshal,
Robert Olay Woods,
i
Frank Chas. H. Mc Kiernan, f Stewarde,
Fred Sanford Como, Tyler.

Benjamin Cory,
William A.lex. January,
Henry Olp Weller,
Wilbur Jostns Wilcox,
Wilson Hays,

Alonzo Bobbitt Hamilton,
Samuel Wat~on Boring,
Orrin "Francis Mann,
Tyler Beach,

John Plaskett Jarman,
Clarence Haydock,
Jacob Lambert Asay,
Ralph Lowe.

MASTER MASONS :

Crow, Richard
Jordan, William Samuel .
Adel, Wilmer Thomas
Crowell, Martin Luther
Kalfus, Joseph Leeland
Agnew, Henry Joseph
Allison, William De Witt Dailey, M.orris Elmer
Kautlehner, Christ'n Geo.P.
Davis, Thomas Haines
Kelly, William
Anderson, John A.Iden
Anderson, John Zningni\us Day, James Collins
Kircher, John Charles
Anderson, Philip
Denne, George
Knox, Alexander Smith
Appleton, Morris
Dennis, John Bonlsby
Koch, Adolph Jacob
Ayer, Frank Milton
D~nahoe, Frank Leslie
Lathwesen, Louis John
Dynes, William Henry
Laorilliard, Henry
Ayer, Samuel Freeman
Bailey, Calvin Porter
Evans, Reece Thompson
Leach, William
Ledyard, Francis King
Bailey, Daniel Copps
Ewing, John Newton
Fee, George Washington Leigh, Hugh Alexander
Bailey, Elton Ream
Field, Arthur Gilbert
Lenzen, Theodore William
Bailey, Willard Ohapin
Lewis, Joseph Ringgold
Ballou, John Quincy Adams Fikes, Henry J
Finigan, Lawrence
Lion, f,azar
Baltz Peter
Barb~r, Lawrence Evans Flagg, Ed.win Olarence
Lipsett, Archie
Livingston, William
Barnhisel, Lewis
Fowler, John Shidler
Barnum John Starr
Franzen, Andrew
Main, Harrison Henry
Bartle, john
Gasset, John Eames
Mann, Charles William.
Mason, Pao!
Bath, Edward Robert
Geach, John Bowden
Gladewitz, Christian David May, George Baldazar
Bean, Ge orge Albert
Greenfleld,AleL Clarke
McCloskey, Thomas
Beans, Thomas Ellard
Bee, Samuel Robert
Gummer, Everett Edward McDonald, Archibald
McKenzie, Roderick
Bettinger, Jacob
Guppy, .Edward Samuel
Biddle, Noble T
Hagedon, Charles Luther McMurty, William Sharpe
Biggs, Marshall Alexander Halliday, Joseph Borby
Middleton, Joseph Traill
Mi~or, Peter Overton
Blumenthal, Marx
Hambly, Thomas Werry
Boschken, Jacob
Hanson, Eugene Waldron Moore, Fred Walter
Bowden, John Henry
Hanson, George War~en
Morehouse,_ Henry Vincent
Brackett, Jethro Nat. Broce Harbeck, Theo.Martin Wm. Moulton, Bt1llman Augustus
Bray, George
Harrenstein,John Wessels N~whall, l:!ylveste~
.
Breyfogle, William Osmond Harris, Henry
N1ck~rson, Fra~klm Lewis
Britton, William
Hawley, William George
O'Brien, Maorwe
Oalbick Albert Edward
Henry, James Harrison
O'Hanlon, Robert Terrence
Camero~, William
Hewitt, James
Olinder, Carl Ferdinand
Oapt, Gustave
Hofstra, Bake Antone
Owens, John H
Cash Albert B
Honn, George
Ownby, Thomas Powell
Huyok, Richard Asa
Page, George William
Castie Isaac Newton .
Oastle'. Neville Hart
Ryland, Michael Henry
Papson, William
Park, Clement Theodore
Olark Charles
Incagnone, Antonio
Clayt~n, James Atkinson Ingalls, Luther Borr
Peaslee, William Frank
Olifton, Henry
Ingram, Sterling Price
Pender, William Rattray
Costa, Charles John
James, Charles Hodge
Pfau, Louis John
Conlisk, Charles William Janes, Lother F
Plummer, Jabez Chester
Oraw, John Palmer
Jensen, Robert
Pozzo, Francisco
Oroesman, Walter Everett Johnson, Charles Henry
Priest, Richard Torner
0

20

306

Returns of the SubtYrdinate LodgtB

[Aug. I,

Tompkins, Samuel George
Rucker, Samuel Newton
Rainey, Joseph Wesley
Sanderson, Edward Wavell Topham, Edward
Reed, Elliott
Schemmel,HenryLeonhard Valpey, Calvin, Jr.
Reed, Warren De Witt
Reynolds, Geo.Washington Schultz, Cha~. Hieronymne Wagener, Samuel Hopkins
Wetmore, Alson L
Sexton, William
Rice, Charles Warren
:White, Jamee Anguetns
Shaw, Joseph Nathan
Rice, Judson
Whitton, Albert King
Shearer, Paul Morphy
Rich, Jacob
Wight, David
Simpson, William
Rich, Samuel Herman
Richards, Benj. Frankli1,1 Skillicorn, George Edward Wilcox, Harry Warren
Willey, Henry Lee
Skow, Hans Christian
Righter, Francie Marion
Southworth, Malek Adbel Willoughby, Matthew
Riley, Thomas Jefferson
Wooster, Clarence Marshall
Sterne, Harry Raymond
Rinaldo, David
Wright, Henry Ward
Taylor, William Stewart
Robins, Charles Edwin
WyaU, Jamee Bellman--20i.
Rowley, Albanue Bellger Tillotson, Harlon
Titos, Francie John
Rocker, James Tolliver
FELLOW ORAFT :

v Seott, Benjamin Franklin-I.
ENTERED APPRENTIOES :

Anderson, George Howard

French, William Henry-3.

Beckett, Jemnel Jamee
WITHDRAW.N":

MoMurty, William Spencer-2.

Cnlverwell, Richard Stephen
DIED :

Barkley, Andrew Shanklin
Breyfogle, Charles William

Heinlen, Goethe Anguetns
Jones, William G

Payne, Dolphus Skinner
-15.

1b the Grand Lodge of Califor!'ia·

1895.]

307

MASTER MASONS:

Goodman,Geo. Edmond, Jr. McClelland, Joseph Alex.
Amstutz, Henry Lonie·
Gregory, Charles McCloon McCollum, William Jnhn
Beard, Jamee Edgar
Miller, Francie Asbury
Grigsby, Achilles Fine
Blunk, Arthur Scott
Grigsby, Alfonso Lafayette Moody, John Newton
Briggs, Sebra
Grossman, Ad 'lph's Herm'n Jl[othereole, Thomae
Buetelli, Gottardo
O'Garra, Michael
Gwynn, Willl11.m, Jr.
Bncknnm, Daniel
Pinkham, George Grafton
Haas, David Leopold
Butters, Angne
Plass, Phillip
Harker, Charles Sumner
Cllin, John Alexander
Hatch,Fred 'k Winelow, Jr. Priest, Joshua James
Chalmers, John Howard
Richie, Mathew G
Clifford, George Boardmlln Hawkes, John
Robertson, William Ball
Hoadley, Horace .Tames
Coates, Frank
Robinson, Joseph Lilbnrn
Holden, Samuel Emery
Cohen, Morris
Horstmeyer, Henry Conrad Shurtleff, Benjamin
Davi•, Morrow Henry
Sterling, Robert Reary
Hottel, Eli Washington
Dennis, John
Stewart, Robert
Howell, Joseph
Derry, Thomas
Stratton, "'llliam, Jr.
Howland, John Smith
Dunl11.p, David Anderson
Swift, John Jackson
llnnter, William
Elles, Theodore
Taylor, Robert Francis
King , Percival Simpson
Epley, Thomas Henry
Trnbody, Wm. Alexander
Knudsen, Andrew
Finnell, John
Wichels, Johann Diedrich
Long, Reuben
Fowler, Henry
Williams, Fred Waldo
llfanaese, Emanuel
Gardner, Alden Monroe
Wood, Nathaniel Henry
Gardner, James Buchannan Martin, Thomae Marcom
Zollner, John Frederick-90.
Garwood, Charles Ma.rvin Marx, Ferdinand Fritz
' Gorton, Barton Hezekiah Mason, Jamee
FELLOW CRAFTS •

Mellor, Joseph Albert-3.

Hill, George Wesley

Dnhig, James

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Bailey, William Angnstas
Finnell, Williamson

Sanderson, Robert--5.
De Donis, Gniseppe
Robinson, Thomae Alexander
RESTORED:

Jordan, Fred Mnrray-1.

YOUNT LODGE, No. 12.

WITHDRAWN:

Butler, Ase. Douglas
Eastman, Henry Lee

Napa, Napa County.

Haun, Edgar
Kimball, Edwin

Stated Meetinga, Satur~ay of or n~t preceding Full Moon.
Edward Bonsall, Senior Deacon,
Max J Crow, Maater,
George Washington Strohl, Sen. Warden, Isaac George Herron, Junior Deacon;
Benjamin Sidney Wilkins, Jun. Warden, Nelson Marble, Mar.1hal,
Fred Morra~ Jordan, I Stewarda
Edward D~rrel Beard, 7hawrer,
I
Daniel Sterling Kyser., r
Samuel Skinner Knapp, Secretary,
Amos Smit-h Knapp, Tyler.

Andrew Jackson Hull,
Frederick N Giles,
Jamee Bauoty Stevens,
Nelson Marble,

Walker, Calvin Bowere-2.

NEVADA LODGE, No. 13.
NeT&da, NeT&da. County.

Stated Kutinga, second Wedneaday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

Paat Maatera1

Henry Ray l(napp,
William Bradt Carlion,
William Bradford,
Finis Ewing Johnston,

DIED:

Plass, Charles Winston

OFFICERS1

Starkweather, Charlea Renry-6.

Daniel Sterling Kyser,
John Tickell,
Sa.muel Skinner Knapp,
Max J Crow.

Erastus Barnum Power, Senior DelUJon,
Carl Louis Moller, Mailer,
William Edmund Meservey, &n. Ward., Charles Henry Conley, Junior lJeacon,
David Eddy Morgan, Marshal,
Sherman Ward Marsh, Jun. Warden,
Willi11.m Henry Veal, l Stewards
Edward Myers Preeion, Trea/lurer,
'
Thomae T Hughes, f
Ianthis Jerome Rolfe, Secretary ,
Antonia. Tam, -Tyler.

•
Retwrns of the Subordinate Lodges

308

LAug. 1,

-1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of Orilifornia.

309

Paat Maateru

Niles Searle,
Thomas Porter Hawley,
William Oooper Randolph, Ianthia Jerome Rolfe,
Thomae Hubbard Oaewell, Edward .Myers Preston,
David Eddy .Morgan,
John Caldwell,
Sanford Orin Pease,
Franklin Ennis,

Obrie. Conr'd Weieenbnrger,
John Thomas Morgan,
William Barker,
Thomae Benton Gray.

Odgers, Thomas
Gillespie, Robert
Ashburn, Hane Arent
Goodwin, Jeremiah Bamnel Pare, Oamllle Alfred
Ashton, David
Parioi, Daniel
Hale, Horace
Barlow, William Henry
Pascoe,' Emanuel
Hall, Benjamin
Barton, William
Pioletti, John
Ba~rett, Obarles Augnatue Hampton, Elisha
Plummer, Richard
Bernardo, Manuel Joseph Bari, John Wesley
Preble, Lucius William
Hill, Charles Wilson
Bennallack, Jamee
Rich, Daniel Alexander
Hocking, John
Bridges, Edwarcl David
Holland, Jacob LafayeUe Richards, David
Brown, Walter S
Richards, William Gilbert
Buffington, John .Mason, Jr. Holmes, William
Richards, William Stevens
Hoskins, Henry Rablin
Burrington, Albert
Roberts, Mark L
Hoskins, William W
Cammet, Frank Lincoln
Robinson, George Edward
Hughes, George Lovett
Casper, Kaekil
Rowe, William
Hoot, Robert .Meozo
Chegwidden, Jamee
Searls, Fred
Kendrick, Colin
Clark, Albert Preston
Shaw, George Crawford
Kendrick, Levi Jackson
)
Clemo, William
Biddies, .Milan Buchard
Kistle, William Henry
Coho, Casper
Stoddard, Orlando
Kitie, James
Craig, Michael Francie
Sukeforth, Elisha Gorney
Kllngenapor, Charles
Croae, Charles Wesley
Tellam, Frederick
Locklin, Jamee
Curnow, Robert
Delbridg~, Abel Nicholas .Mallon, Christopher Henry Thomas, Jo~eph
Tilfany, Archibald Jasper
Marsh, Daniel
Douglas, Harry Lee
Tilley, Edwin
Marsh, John .Menzo
Dooghi.e, Norval
Tompkins, Edward Alex.
.Marsh, .Martin Lu th er
Drnozer, Peter
Tompkins, Elijah Obediah
.Martin, William Henry
Duryea, William Henry
Tower, Alonzo Douglas
McBean, John
Eagye, Elzever
Tremain, Richard
.McCall, John Thomae
Eddy, Charles Henry
.McOutchan, Robert Given Torner, George Edward
Eddy, Samuel Jones
Weber, Nicholas
Edwards, Edward Bamue I McElvy, Charles
Medlin, Frederick William Weisenburger, Conrad
Evans, John
· White, James O
Mein, Thomae
Faull, George Henry
Whiting, Silas Oaoro
Flemlog,Joseph·Davenport Meservey, Eugene Boyd
Wilson, Andrew Boyd
.Mitten, John
Floyd, William
Wiseman, William Henry
lllorria, John Fairfield
Folene, A.done
Wright, Wiliie.m-129.
Nivens, Archibald
Gaylord, George Cook
Nivens, Archibald, Jr.
Giles, Timothy
FELLOW ORA.FT :

Wl'.l'HDRA WN :

Palamonnter, Thomae-1.

Bia.ck, Jamee Alexander-I.

Willie Oatlet Goodman, Senior Deacon,
Robert Potier Hill, Master,
Albert William Weaver, Senior Warden, John Davie Wagnon, Junfor Deacon,
Jesse Borris, Marshal,
John Craig Revie, Junior Warden,
Geo. Heinrich Lndwig Litzios, t St81Da:rds,
Ohatlee McBarvey, Treasurer,
f
Henry Wey!,
Robert Albion Poppe, Secretary,
Montgomery Paxton Ake~s, Tyler.
Oliver Barrett Shaw, (Jhaplairi,
Past Mastera 1

Willia Catlet Goodman,
Charles McHarvey,

Fred Longworth Clark,
Robert Potter Hill.

Robert Albion Poppe,
J ease Borris,
MASTER MASONS :

•

DIED;

Snell, John

Sonoma. Sonoma County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:ct preceding Full Moon.
OFFl(JERS 1

MASTER MASONS :

Shearer, Harry

TEMPLE LODGE, No. 14.

Bte.nelleld, He.latee.d-3.

Akers. Stephen
Bihler, William
Box, Jamee Alien
Borns, James
Callaway, David
Chauvet, Joshua
Corbet, Randolph John
Orooke, William Lowell
Cotter, Ephraim Pierce
Davis, Hogh Hamill

Erskine, Thomae Edward M.acPhee, Donglas Alex.
Bchocken, Solomon
Geary, William Logan
Searcy, William Franklin
Harlie, Granville Swift
Shaw, Bylvanns Harvey
Hartin, Henry
Sparks, George Washington
Hart, Ezra Blair
Spencer, George
Hotz, Gnetave Henry
Hurlbert, Robert Horace Still, William
Johannsen, Lud'g Matthias Stofen, Peter Nicolas
Thompson, Peter Henry
Manuel, David A
McConnell, William Ellit Weaver, Frank-4.3.
FELLOW ORAFT :

Agnew, Samuel Jaeper-1.
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Lonergan, Jamee

Halloran, Edward

Witham, George Fraoklin-3.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Corbaley, Francia Richard

King, John Jay

Peters, John Thomas-3.

DIED:

Spencer, Oharles-1.

EUREKA LODGE, No. 16.
Auburn, Placer Couaty.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS 1

John Lawrnaoo Smith, Senior Deaco'f&,
Michael David Lininger, Master,
William Isaac May, Junwr Deacon,
Jonath'an Fulton, Sen. Waram,
John Carlton Woodard, Juni.or Warden, John Goold Bisbee, Marsh.al, .
William Albert Crowell, t Stewardt,
David Wlademer Lubeck, Treasurer,
John Coleman Balford, f
Peter Daniel Martin, Secretary,
Gerra Breton Predmore, Tyler.

310

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodgeti

[Aug. 1,

Past Masters:

Charles John Hellwig,
John Mathias Fulweiler,
Robert Fleming Rooney,
Michael David Lininger,

Jacob Hart Neff,
John Macklin Miner,
Henry Disque,

Allen, George
Barter, William
Birdsall, Fred Wheeler
Boggs, John Craig
Brown, Edward Doyle
Coffman, Alfred Bonham
Crutcher, Wm. McDowall
Fauble, John
Grohs, Frederick Peter
Houchin, William Hiram

Kenna, Jamee
Lanyon, Byron
Lardner, William Bronson
Lathrop, Lee N
MacLennan, Malcome 0
Mears, J oeiah
Millikan, Francis Marion
Ormsby, Henry
Quire, Joseph Spencer
Richards, Jamee

John Gonld Bisbee,
Henry Crittenden Onrtie,
John Mccann.

MASTER MASONS :

Robinson, Alexander Kelly
Snowden, Edward Ohristp'r
Starbuck, John Boardman
Thomas, George
Todd, Thomas Milton
White, John Miles
Wiley, Morris Brickback
Wilkins, William
Wright; Edwin Foreet-48.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Fathy, Robert Soott-1.
DIED:

McGuire, William Brown
Mullen, William Henry

Weber, Paul Bernhard Whittemore, Adrian Storee-4.

1895.J

'Io the Grand Lodge of California.

3ll

Pottet, Alphonse
Hallgarten, Benoit
Cattet, Auguste Paul
Proo, Jean Auguste
Kaplan, Byman Henry
Chaigneao, Alfred
Reise, Bernard
Lame, Lonis
Ohevannler, Armand
Revert, Alphonse
Lebatard, Michel
CliLvare, Jean Pierre
Roeckel, Joseph Gulllanme
Lemardelay, Armand
Coney, Alexander K
Roos, Adolphe (let)
Lemoine, Emile Angnste
Cu.eniu, Francis
Roos, Adolphe (2d)
Lenormand, Leon
Cnenin, Ildefonee
Ronseean, Charles M
Letroadec, Jnlien
Dazet, Jean ·Baptiste
Salomon, Sylvain
Deconrtieux, Amand Xavier Levy, Joseph
Seell, Gaspard
Levy, Jolee
Diebold, Michel Henri
Seibel, Frederique
Levy, Lonie Abraham
Deville, Jean
Sgier, Jean Joseph
Levy, Max
Dimmer, Nicolas
Siegel, Moses
Lille, Charles
Douet, A.ndr~
Simon, Arthur Jules
Lipman, Jsidore
Drain, Armand Cresar
Sompe, Pierre G.
Lobe, Anatole
Eisenberg, Adolphe
St. Denis, Julee de
Long, Olaude
Eisner, Daniel
Tait, Dudley Frederick
Loopy, Jean
F11nre, Emile
Tait, William Cave
Marchebout, Victor
Franck, Isidore
Vermeil, Jean Lonie
Mooser, William
Geantit, Alphonse
Vlllegla, Lbopold
Nenbnrger, Gustave
Oodcbanx, Edmond
Ortlon, Auguste Joe. Victor Weill, Raphabl
Godchanx, Lazard
Goldaracena, Orel Martin Ortlon, Emile Jos. Victor WeiJI, Sylvain
Willard, Leon-106.
Pbrlle, Lonis
• Guittard, Etienne
Guyot, Emile Dllslr~ A.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Ayhens, Pa.al Joseph

Deeenfant, Paul Julee

Wagner, Edward Lafayette-3.

WITHDRAWN:

LOGE LA PARFAITE UNION, No. 17.
San .Francl•co, San Francisco Coun.ty.

Stated Meetings, ~st Friday i1' each 'TM'l1th.

Cazeanx, Dominlque-2.

Blgn6, Vincent

SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIO OONDUOT:

BriBSet, Arthur Michel-1.
DIED:

OFFICERS1

')
Justin Ladagnone, MalJler,
Jean Marie Dupas, Senior Warden,
Julee Auradou, Junior 1varden,
Amand Decourtieux, 1Teamrer,
·
Pau 1 de St. Jolhen,
Seoretary,
Haston Strans, Ohaplain,

Antoine Leon Anradou, Jr., Sen. Deacon,
No.el Paul Loopy, Junior lJeaoon,
Eugene Robinet, Mar1hal,
Clorandin Fran9oie Andrien }
' Steward.a '
Pascal Bellegarde,
Frederique Lagrange, 7'yler.

Past Masters 1

Louis Breese,
Daniel Levy,
Fran90is Pierre Masson,
Auguste GouP.tiaux,
Dominique Germain Lucien, Emmanuel Meyer,
Emmanuel Raes,

Vic tor Gard et,
Charles Ashton,
Justin Ladagnone.

Bergez, Jean
Berton, Gustave
Blaser, Jean Christian
Block, Felix
Blom, Jacqnee

Sabatie, Philippe Gabrlel-2.

MOUNTAIN SHA~E LODGE, No. 18.
Downiertlle, Sierra County.

Stated Meetings, TueBday qf or neil;t preceding Full Moon.
OFFJCERS1

MASTER MASONS:

Artigues, Joseph Emile
Astorg, Alphonse
Babin, Demas Colin
Barbier, Joseph Prudent
Bergerat, Louis

Racouillat, Ludovic

Blum, Leon
Boisson, Francis
Brttggemano, Henri
Cantel, Loois
Carpy, Charles

Stanley A. Smith, Senior Deacon,
Frank Rumrill Wehe, Mailer,
Adolph Joseph Meroux, Senior Warden, William Ryan, Ju7,far Deacon,
John Burman, Marahal,
Aden Denmire, Jufliar Warden,
Robert Forbes, l Stewarda,
John Ooeta, Ti·eaaurer,
Henry Spaulding, I
Henry Hadden Pardy, Secretary,
Valentine Hartling, 7'yler.

312

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Paot Ma•tera:

Benjamin Pauly,
James Brown Crooks,
David Livingston Whitney, Alemby Jnmp,
Robert Forbes,

.John Barman,
Stanley Andrew Smith.

MASTER MASONS :

Alexander, James Ramsey Johnson, James A.
Soward, Frank David
Barrett, John :Miles
McGuire, Andrew John
Stewart, Samael Cortis
Meyer, Henry Herman
Treat, Charles Lewis
Bernhardt, Lonie
Corbett, David
· Pires, Man'l Silveria Soares Thomas, Henry
Davidson, Samuel Bates
Rodgers, Jacob Rankin
Weil, John Joseph
Ford, Tirey La Fayette
Scott, John
Wilson, Charles Martin
Galligan, Barney
Shafer, Sheldon Woodrnft' Yoong, George-37.
Hongh, Joseph Zephaniah
RESTORED:

Johnson, James A.-1.

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1895.J

313

Lynch, Willi~
Peters, JosephD
Smith, Arthnr David
Petray, Henry Calvin
Smith, Frank Hartford
Lynn, James William
Smith, James Winn
Mays, William Henry
Phelps, Joseph La Rose
Prngh, Winfield Webster Smith, Richard Rossell
Mayes, Isaac James
McLaren, Archibald James Reeve, Frederick
Spellman, Daniel Joseph
McLaren, Colin Cameron Richards, William Henry Sperry, George Barker
McLaren, John Cameron Bitter, Carlton M
Stewart, James Al phens
.McLaren, William Duncan Roche, Peter Frank
Stone, William Henry
Meinecke, Frederick
Roseman, Ferdinand
Swain, John Anderson
Oates, William Wallace
Ruggles, John Evere~t
Taylor, Charles Edwin
Oberdeener, George
Sangninetti, Dominic
Taylor, Hugh Woodruff
O'Brien, John Henry
Sheehan, William David
Todd,-Francis Walton
Pattarga, James
Shepard, William Thomas White, William Charles
Patterson,Alex.VanRenns'r Simpson, William McPayneWhite, Kellogg Albert
Payne, Alfred George
Sink, Renben Henry
Wood, Charl&s-98.
Payne, David Rolland
ENTIWED APPRENTIOE:

WITHDRA.WNj:

Johnson, William Russell-1.

Barnes, Harvey Stephens--1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

SAN JOAQUIN

LODG~.

No. 19.

Stockton, San Joaquin CoantF•

Lemon, William James
Lothrop, Isaac

B)lggles, Charles Augnstns

Thomas, Wllllam-4.

DIED:

Bargman, John Herman

Phillips, Thomas-2.

Stated Meetings, Monday oj or next preceding Fu~l Moon.
OFFICERS1

Isaac Henry Robinson, Master,
Harry Borr Needham, Ser.ior DeaCOft,
Adelberr. William Davidson, Sen. Warden, William Henry Lorenz, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Hartzell Chestnutwood,Jun. Ward., Frank Erwin Darby, Marahal,
William Graham, Treaaurer,
Daniel Lewis Klench,
l Stewards
William Henry Keyes, Bearelary,
Sherman Merriam Spnrrier, f ·
'
Charles Edward Howe (of Morning S/,ar Lodge, No. 68,) Ty"ler.
Pait Maaters:

Gilbert Bnrnett Claiborne,P.G.M. Sargent Smith Littlehale, Richard Thomas Earle,
Sidney Newell,
MinordSpragne Thresher, Frank Erwin Darby,
William Abraham Davies, P.G.M . Samnel Mosley Woods,
CharlesMosesJackson,
Sylvanus G. S. Dnnbar
Alexander Chalmers,
John Levinsky.
William Graham,
Joseph William Cavis,

WASHINGTON LODGE, No. 20.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS•

Victor James Tolley, Senior Deacon,
George Ernest Ebert, Master,
Charles Franois Gardner, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Reisen, Jr., Benim Wartlen,
John Harley, Marshal.,
Harry Mills Butler, Junior Warden,
Aloyslns Sylvester Cohn, l Stewards,
George Mnrray, Tr ea81.U'er,
John Scott,
I
Edwin Glover, Secretary,
Elias Rath, Tyler.

MASTER l\IASONS :

Henery, Samuel
Bargman, Herman Conrad Davis, Sylvester Byron
Bargman, Herman Janae~ De Vries, William Garland Hurd, Columbus
Eldridge, Edward Duane Jackson, John
Belding, Charles
Bonney, Charles Sumner Finnell, .Michael
Jeffries, Howard Barthol'w
Fraser, Philip Barry
Johnson, Peter
Balson, Herman R
Gatwood, John
K~nniston, Charles Morrill
Caine, John
Goodell, George
Kitchner, Samnel Amery
Chalmers, Peter J oho
Haas, Jerome
Levinsky, Arthnr Leonard
Cobb, Frank Dyckman
Haven, Reary
Longwith, Frank 0
Cotterell, William
H enderson, Robert William Lnnd, Alexander John
Cnlver, Gilbert Oaleb

Past Mastera1

Nathaniel Greene Cortis, P. (J,M., William Coohrane,
Edwin Glover,
William Alfred Potter,
Remus Upton Gay,
John Nelles Yoong,
William Emil Gerber,
Charles Eben Flye,

Wiiliam Waldo Marvin,
Preston Lodwick Lykins,
Frank Taylor Johnson.

MASTER MASONS :

Aokerman, Albert
Bockrath, Herman Henry Busoh, John
Butler, Stephen William
Adams, Charles Edward
Booth, Albert Porch
Clarke, Georl[e L ittle
Ashworth , Edward FletcherBreuner, John
Avery, Ira
Brenner, Lonie Frederick Clunie, Thomas Jefferson
Block, Manrioe
Bnruham, Charles Edward Cronoh, Eugene Ackley

21

314

Returns of the Subordinate Lodgea

LAug. 1,

Oronch, Harrison Rhodes Hoag, William Moffet
Miller, John Henry
Dola~, John Henry
Johnson, Hiram Warren (I) Moore, George Alden
Elkos, I.ouis
Johnson, Hiram Warren (2) Nathan, Henry Michael
Olllis, Dngald Hall
Nathan, Samuel
Johnson, Phillip.
Greer, Erskine
Johnson, Presley Beanreg'd Neal, Charles Arthur
Halsey, David Crane
Johnston, JamP.s Waverley Ochsner, John
Hall, Thomas Bertram
Pacheco, Romnaldo
Kolliker, Frederick
Ham!lton, William Brown Lund, John Peter
RoUege, RobP.rt
Harbison, John 8
Shaw, Joseph
Madden, Jerome
Haskell, Dudley Haines
Wachhoret, Hermann
McKee, Edwin Hervey
Hayford, Clarence Ralston McKinnon, John Jenkins W!lley, Wm.Henry Harrison
Heilbron, Adolphe
Wright, Charles Edward
Menken, Peter Heinrich
-73.
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Hamilton, Edward Randolph

Hanchett, Lewis Edward-2.
DIED:

Deal, Samuel

Gomey, Charles William

Jordan, Lewis OliJford-3.

"')

HAWAIIAN LODGE, No. 21.
Honolulu, HawaUan l&lands.

Stated MeetingB, first Monday in each month.

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

Smith, Thomas
McGregor, Alexander
Fitzgerald, John
Smith, William r.raham
Mcintyre, Hngh Edward
Foster, William Edward
Smithies, John Samuel
Gilflllan, Archibald Forrest McLennan, Jamee
Sorreoeon, Thomas
Melaophy, John
Goodale, Warren
Goodale, William Whitmore Monacbesi, Herbert Drew Stolz, Frederico Leopold
Strehz, Edward
Morrison, Hugh
Gray, George
Sutherland, James
Neumann, Pan!
Gregory, James
Swift, Sidney Bourne
Newman, Edwin Rodney
Hammer, Oharles
Tripp, Alfred Newton
Nolte, Henry Jniius
Harrison, John Henry
Torner, Lewis Farrant
Oat, Joseph Morton
Heilbron, William
Wade, Elmer Ellsworth
Parker, Samnel
Hewitt, George Clinton
Wall, Charles Frederick
Paty, John Henry
Hofgaard, Ohrist'r Blom
Wallace, Kenneth Robert G.
Horewell, Charles Arthur Patten, Harolil Vaughn
Weight, William
Phelps, Casper Fitting
Hyman, Joseph
Wentworth, Harris Barnes
Isenberg, Daniel Paul Rice Phillipe, Mannie
West, Gideon
Poor, Henry French
Johnson, Christopher
White, John Corbet
Pratt, James William
Johnson, William
White, William
Pringle, Clarence D11.vid
Jones, J oho Griffith
Whitney, Benjamin
Renton, James Robert
Jones, John We.lter
Richards, Elmer Ellsworth Wilcox, William Luther
King, Thomas James
Wilder, Gerrlt Parmile
Roth, Simon
Langeheio, Ernst
Wilder, John Knights
Jfowatt, Allan Ritchie
Linder, Axel Ferdinand
Schaefer, Frederick August Williams, Robert Barker
Lindsay, Adam
Wood, Clifford Brown
Lishman, Thomas ~alker Schlemmer, .Maxmilliao
Wootten, Heury George
Scriogeour, Allan Briggs
Little, Joseph Musgrave
Worth, Henry Fletcher
Searle, John Cooper
Looissoo, Morris
Wright, James Newett-127.
Smith, David Bowers
Louisson, Samuel
Love, William Francis
FELLOW CRAFTS!

•

Fair, James-2•.

Boyd, William Wright

OFFICERS1

John Harris Soper, Master,
Andrew Brown, Senior Deacon,
Mose Edmond Grossman, .Senior Warden, Oharles Williams, Junior Deacon,
Milton Nelson Sande.rs, Junior Wan.len, John Cassidy, Marsha~
Walter Montaise Gilfard, 1Yeaaurer,
Thomas Edward Krouse, ll Stetoards,
Thomas Edwerd Wall, &aretary,
Charles Jerome Campbell, l
Alexander Mackintosh, Ohapla'ln,
Halvor Myhre, Tyler.
Past. Ma•ter• •

William Fessenden Allen, George Everett Howe,
William Montrose Graham,
John Adair Hassinger,
Theo're Cunningham Porter, Andrew Brown,
Albert Francis Judd,
William Henry Cornwell.
Robert Moore,
Alexander Mackintosh,
James Melville Monsnrrat,

315

ENTERED APPRENTICES:
Hoft'm~n, Theodore

Kuehn, Rolando

Podmore, Robert Wood-S.

WITHDRAWN:
Angus, John Morris
Auerbach, Frank Bond
Cooper, Henry Ernest
Dowling, John Joseph
Hnghee, Edwin

King, James Anderson
Lange, Robert Frederick
Phillips, John
Reis~, Jay Harry

Ripley, Cliotoo Briggs
Smith, Henry
Tenney, Edward Davies
Williams, Henry Herbert
-lS,

DIED:

Spear, John Andrew-1.

MASTER MASONS :

Ashley, William George
.Anstln, Stafford Lapham
Batchelor, Job
Beckley, George Charles
Bohm, William Siegfried
Boyd, James Harbottle
Bromley, Walter Hall
Brown, George Watson

Bruns,Jobu Henry
Buchholtz, Franz
Campbell, Thomas
Catton, Robert
Cleghorn, Archibald Scott
Conant, Eimer Ellsworth
Oooper, Charles Bryan\
Crabble, Olarence Linden

Cnmmings, Jas. Henry, Jr.
Day,. Francis Robert
Eaton, William Lewis
Eckart, :Maximilian
English, Henry
Ewart, George Robert
Farnsworth, John
Fernandez, Abraham

Non 1. -Arthur Porter Pete.moo, an Entered Apprentice of thi• Lodge, died lo S.n
Fn.ncieco, Cal., March 16th, 1895.
NoTJC 2.-Brother Charles L6ander Dodge, affiliated with this Lodge Sept. 34, 189,, •nd
Withdrew May 6th, 18911.

316

Returna of the Suhordinate LodgeB

(Aug. 1,

OCCIDENTAL LODGE, No. 22.
San Francbao, San Francisco County,

Stated Meetings, first MO'Tlday in e,ach month.
OFFICERSs

Michael Joseph Savage, Maat,er,
Ernest Chappell Bonner, Senior Deacoo,
George Webster Tomer, &n(or Warden, Ernest Lionel Kimloch Johnstone, J. De,a,.,
Phil Kearney Gordon, Junior Warden, Charles Bliss, Marshal,
William Keyser Vanderslloe, 1Y'eaaurer, Frederick York Chapman, l Steward.a
Harrl~on Alexander Jones, &crela'1J,
Arthur Cephas Turner,
f
'
William Freyberg Flick, 1\'ler.
Pa•t Maater111

Charles Lyman,
David Morgan, Jr.,
John Elbridge Pnrdy,
Elliott J oeiah Moore,
Charles Johnson Willey,
Samuel Woolsey Backos,
Jamee Knox Polk Wilson,
Brileford Pease Flint,

Charles Lyman Haskell,
Josiah Wickerd Roller,
John Woodlock,
Fred. Wm. Gos. Moebns,
William Macdonald,
Henry Borner,
William .Middleton Fonda, George Mackay Adam•,
Christopher Robert Browne,James LaFayette Halsted,
Harrlsoo Alexa.oder Jooes, Henry Lllngford Tickner,
George Henry Jenks,
HenryJno.JacobVanMarle ,
Eugene Nelson Denprey, David Edwin Miles.
MASTER MASONS:

Amee, Dommer Trask
Clark, Joseph FeBBenden Fitch, George Lewis
Anderson, Winslow
Clark, Treat Perry
Flanders, Nathan
Avery, Francis
Cochran, John Henry
Forbes, 'tlharlee
AyerR, Willie Henry
Colborn, Charles Henry
Formhals, Ferdinand
Backus, Oscar Jerome
Cole, Richard Beverly
French, Frank Jamee
Becker, Bernard Adolph Comely, Charles John
French, Wheeler Nichole
Benedict, Conrtland Smith Countryman, Robt. Harmer Frink, George Washington
. Bennett, Alfred Brown
Crane, Henry Adolphus
Fry, John Donglase
Bien, Louis
Creasey, Frank Albert
Gallagher, John Patrick
Birch, William Henry
Damon, George Dimick
Geary, William
Birch, William Walter
Damon, Marshall Nye
Gibbs, Nathan Henry
Brant, William Perry
Davidson, Joseph Robert Goold, Edmond Looie
Brittan, William Giles
Day, Frank Mortimer
Grogan, James Morton
Bronson, Frithjof
Dean, Walter Edwin
Gunn, Benjamin McKay
Brown, Alonzo Fitch
Delger, Edward Frederick Hall, Arthur Weyland
Brown, Thomae
Denniston, Edward Gere Harding, Ralph Jodd
Buckbee, Spencer Cone
De Silva, Manuel Maria
Harris, Jerome Omhereon
Bultman, John Henry
Dimond, William Henry
Hart, Marcus
Bnsh, Walter Nelson
Dowling, Jamee Joseph
Hawkins, Edward Kendrick
Oamphell, James
Downing, Henry Olav
Havner, James Randall
Campbell, Joseph Henry Dorhrow, Harry
Hiester, Amos Calvin
Campe, Harry Magnes
Earl, John Ogden
Hindes, Edward Brooks
Capp, Charles Binger
Eveland, George Fritz
Hitohcock, Daniel Webster
Center, George Lillie
Ewen, John Sangster
Holmes, Howard Carlton
Cheesebrough, Andronicue Faymonville, Bernard
Hoppe, Charles Edwin
Clark, Edward Fanning
Field, Alfred Bishop
Horton, Thomae Rotch
('

1895.]

317

To the Grand Lodge of OalAjornia.

Ives, George Isaac
McGoftick, William
Smith, John Tremaine
James, Frank William
McHann, Thomae
Smith, William, (No. l}
Jaynes, Frank
McNott, William Fletcher Smith, William, (No. 2.)
Jensen, John Wm. Ditleft' McQoeeten, Charles
Bnedaker, William Harvey
Johnson, Albert
Miller, Peter Christian
Spencer, George Willig
Keefer, Windsor Atchison Miller, William Henry
Staude, Fred
Kellogg, Frank Harvey
Moffit, Thomas Sabatier
Steiner, Nioholae
Kelly, Richard Edward
M.ulford, Thomae Whited Stone, Byron Franklin
Kennedy, Leonard White Myers, Robert Carling
Stone, Walter Somers
Kerr, Jamee Watt
Nelson, Charles
Stone, William
Kersey, John Daniel
Newton, Morrie
Street, John Herbert
Kinney, .Marshall Johnson O'Connor, Cornelioe
Swales, John William
Kittredge, Spencer Bigelow Perks, Edward Charles
Taylor, John Brinkworth
Knapp, Jabez Borr
Peters, John Fred' kFrank T'Beck, William
.
Lackmann, John Chris. D'h Phillips,William Armstrong Thomas, Edward Jennmgs
J,ambert, Dan
Pinckney, Thomas Cochran Trampleaeure, Thos. Edw'd
Larsen, George
Prior, John Lewie
Turner, Cephas
Lawson, James
Quinn, William Henry
Tyson, George Henry
Lawson, John Christian
Radovich, Bozo
Tyson, Jamee
Lee, John
.
Reichert, Theodore
Tyson, Robert Jamee
Lilienthal, Ernest Reuben Ridllngton, Thomas
Volkmann, Carl Heinrich R·
Loc'kstaedt, Louie
~obinson, Samuel
Wadham, Loman
Low, Josiah Orne
Rosengaro, John Hermann Warren, AlberL Thomas
Locke, Bernard Henry
Sap;e, Lewis Pease
Watkins, William Hartley
Hartin, Alexander
Sanborn, William David
Watson, Thomas
Maoran, Joseph Russell
Bchnoor,Charles Otto
Weijen, Cord.
Maynard, Duncan Don bar Schreiber, Wm. A.n. Martin Weinmann, Louis
!il:aye, A.rthur Hugh
Scholtz, Charles
White, Lovell
Merrill, James William
Seymour, Simon Harry
Willey, Otis Freeman
McCabon, George
Sheldon, Mark
Williams, Oscar
McCarthy, Thomas
Sinclair, John William
Winterburn, Joseph-207.
McGinnis, Hobert John
Bleeper, Charles
FELLOW. CRAFTS :

Hilyer, Cortis-2.

Chapman, Edward Kirk

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Harris, Stephen Loring
Mahoney, John Hill, Jr. Wilson, Alexander Wilhelm-5•
Johnson, Frank Spaulding Williams, William Alfred
WITHDRAWN:

Beckman, George Otto
Bingham, Daniel

Hoghes, John Law
Sage, Orlando Gostavoe

Bennett, Alfred Brown
Bingham, Daniel

Hughes, John Law
Steiner, Nicholas

Siegbold, Henry William
Woolmer, Charles-6.

RESTORED:

. Wetjen, Oord.--5.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Day, William Ballard

Patterson, John Murdoch Morrlson-2.
DIED:

Goftrie, Chas. Frederick Ludwig
Haviland, John Tuthill

Loll, Lonie Richard

Smyth, Clark-4.

318

RduNl8 of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

MADISO N LODGE, No. 23.
Grau Valley, Nevada (Jounty.

1895.J

'I.o the Grand Lodge of OaJ,iforni,a.

Silvester, Henry
Smith, John Milton
Stein, Isidor
Stoddard, Alexander
Titus, Frederick J

Trewren, George Charles
To ttle, Daniel
Uphotl, Herman
Vincent, Oeorge
Walker, Thomae Rolla

Stated Meetin,qs, first 'l'uuday in each month.
OFFICERS :

319

Werry, John
Werry, Richard
Woodmansee, Charles Scott
Yeo, Samuel
Zapf, Carl-180.

WITHDRA.WN :

Farrell, John Henry

Rowe, Jamee Thomas-~.
DIED:

Frank Aver. Master,
William Frederick Prisk, Sen. Deaoon,
John Terrill, Senior Warden,
William Carnow, Junior Deacon,
Paul Wesley Michell, Jun. Warden,
Theodore Henry Wilhelm, Marshal,
Thomae John Michell, Trea.surer,
David Edwin Matteson,
tS
!la
William David Barrie, Secretary,
Henry Sylvester Spaald!ng, f ttMar '
·
Edward Nuttall, Tyler.

Morehouse, Alphonso-1.

Paa& lllaatera:

John Crisp Coleman,
William Ooombe,
Edward Coleman,
John Willard Relley.

William Gordon Hudson,
Thomas John Michell,
Theodo~e Henry Wilhelm,
Marion Pierce Stone,
William Alexander Hawley, Jamee Clyoio Noel.

MARIPO SA LODGE, No. 24.
lllarlposa. lllarlpooa (Jounty.

MASTER MASONS :

Ahlgren, Carl Gustaf
Edwards, Joseph
Kinsman, Alfred
Andrew, Joel
Edwards, William
Kinsman, John
Andrews, Jamee
Elliott, Marcus Lindsey
Lewie, John
Angove, Jeremiah
Erb, John Benjamin
Lockwood, Justus Wheeler
Angove, John
Evans, Thomae
Long, Stephen
Angove, Richard
Finnie, Robert Dryden
Lord, George
Barker, Charles
Francie, John Bray
Loutzenheizer, William
Bartell, Joseph
Fuchs, Henry
Maddrill, Charles Edwaid
Berriman, Henry
Glasson, Johu
Maddrill, Jamee Henry
Berrlman, Nicholas
Gluyas, Jamee
:Mansau, Zephaniah
Berriman, Thomae Henry Gluyae, James Luke
Mill, Charles
Bishop, William Crase
Granger, Samuel
Mitchell, Charles Henry
. Body, Wm.Christopher Dart Green, Henry
Moore, Stephen
Buckett, Thomas
Gribble, John
Nicholas, Henry
Caddy, Richard
(' Grima, George
Nile, Richard
Oampbell, George
Haas, Isidor
Noonan, Patrick
Campbell, William
Halsall, Thomae
Oliver, William Phillipe
Oare, Thomae John
Hankins, Charles Henry
Parkin, John
Clift, William
Harrie, John
· Pearce, Thomae Jenkin
Clinch, Charles Edward
Harrie, Stephen Michael
.Peare, Joseph
Ooombe, William
Hattam, Joseph
Peterson, Andrew Gustaf
Cooper, Arthur
Hioke, John, Jr.
Petitjean, Theophilus
Coughlin, John H.eilry
Bill, George Washington
Phillipe, John ·
Crocker, John Hoee
Hooper, Jamee
PoJglaee, John
Cryer, Robert
Hudson, William Atherton Provis, William
Daniele, Henry
Hueom, A"ndrew
Richards, Edward Ingram
Davey, Charles
ingram, Thomae, Jr.
Richards, William
Davies, David
Jenkins, Alfred
Rogers, William Jamee
Dodge, John Lewie
Johnston, Peter
Roland, Louie Jerome
.Dorsey, Samuel Packwood Jones, Robert
Sanders, John
Douglaee, William
Jones, William O
Saxon, Edward
Dunatan, William
Kemp, Robert
Searl, Paul Stickney

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preuding Flull Moon.
OFFICERS:

Frederick William Schlageter, Master,
Jamee Niel Donn, Stmim• Deacon,
Ueorge Benley Robinson, Senior Warden, James Barnett, .Junior Deacon,
Carl Gustave Lind, Jun(or Warden,
Thomae Berdine Rowland, Marshal,
Calvin Eldridge Farnsworth, Treasurer, Frank Potthast, t Stel.llardB,
- - - - - - - , Secreta111,
Jonathan Kerr, f
George Oounts, Ohaplain,
Bernhard Dates Aeiikema, Tyler.
Pait lllaatera:

James Duffy Craighan,

Lewis Fuller Jones,

Edward Putnam Wason.

MASTER MASONS :

Knight, George Howard
Schlageter, Herman
Clark, ·Joseph .
Shilling, Frederick
Coffman, William Franklin Lewis, Samuel Joseph
Ludwig, John Daniel
Snyder, John Washington
Oronln, Timothy Joseph
Mathews, John
Trabucco, Frank Thomas
Davanay, Bugh
McCalfrey, George
Utter, Eliakim Stannard
Gonzales, Manuel
Reid, Henry Clay
Westfall, Joel Jackson
Heinhold, Leonard
Ridgeway,Jos eph Hend'eon Widman, W!lliam Henry
Jones, Lewie Newman
-86.
King, Bamael Aiken
FELLOW ORAFT:

Henwood, Joseph Donnell-1. ·
ENTERED APPRENTICE S:

Williams, Thomae P-2.

Washburn, Alfred Henry
DIED:

Ne-wman, Maurice

Temple, George Waehington- 2.

320

Returns of the Subordinate Lod,ges

[Aug. 1,

321

To the Grand Lod,ge of California.

1895.J

EL DORADO LODGE, No. 26.

GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25.

E'laeervllle, El Dorado County.
Geor&'etown, El Dorado County.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nea:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

George Oharles Ran, Master,
Benjamin Johnson Dains, Senior Deacon,
John Colby Rioh, Senior Warden,
Benjamin Franklin Robson, Jun. l>eaoon,
James Davis, Junior Warden,
Oarlo Forni, Marshal,
Thomas z. Armstro•g, 7reasurer,
William George Beattie, l stewarda
Tinsley Borton Epps, Beuretary,
William Fredericks,
f
'
James Francis Walk, Tylln'.

John Colby Rich,
William Ronsb,
Lewis White,
George Charles Ran.
William Simpson Hickman,
MASTER MASONS l

Beattie, Ohristopher
Beattie, George
Corrigall, J oho William
Datta, Lodovico
Filippini, Rinaldo
Forbes, Jotham Oscar
Forni, Angelo
Fortnne, William
Gay, Robert

Past Masters 1

Frederfck Ferdinand Ba.rss,
Albert Ja.y Lowry,

Past Mastera 1

William Alvin Bncknam,
Isaac Grinnell Swift,
Harry Morris Grover,

OFFICERS•

Frederick Ferdinand Barss, Master,
Peter Vignant, Senior l>eaco·n,
Robert Pagan Patterson, Senior Warden, William Prideanx, Junior Deacon,
Lindley Olyde Cooper, Junior Warden, Charles Fitzgerald Irwin, Marllhal,
Angnstus Mierson, Treasu~er, ·
Caleb Reed,
· l Steward.II,
Oharles Caleb Pierce, Seoretary,
John Combellack, f
Charles Caleb Pierce, Ohaplain,
James Lambert Weymontb, Tyler.

• Gibbs, William Banks
Grant, George Lincoln
Grover, Orin Scrip tore
Grover, Walter Nevada
Hersey, Colombos Sonle
Lane, William Henry
Langley, Oharles Hilton
Noble, Robert

Presley, Alvin More
Reedshaw, William John
Rodietti, Francisco
Shepherd,Benjamin Frank'n
Simmonds, Thomas Henry
Walker, Adolph Henry
Ware, John Adrian
White, Joseph Fullerton
-42.

FELLOW ORAFTS :

George Franklin Ma.ck,
Oha.rles Fitzgerald Irwin,

Caleb Reed,

MASTER MASONS :

Alderson, Thomas
Ashcroft, Henry
Avansino, Nicola
Barlow, Geo. Washington
Bonlden, Thomas
Broad, J a.me~
Ca.mpini, James Girolamo
Oleese, John Peter
Coffin, Oliver
Oonper, John Robert
Dnnca.n, Albert Henry

Ford, Simeon Jasper
Ploma.do, Francis Hila.ire
Gorski, Severin
Pridea.nx, Henry
Hawley, Asa. Hershel
Ralph, Thomas
Herrill, Eli
Roberts, Owen
Ma.rchini, Marco
Rapley, Theodore
Ma.son, Benjamin Dorsey Tea.gne, Francis
Miller, Jobn Wesley
Tacchlno, Vincenzo
Olmsted,Sheldon Patterson Torrell, Albert
O'Neil, Joseph
Va.rozza., Giacomo
Pascoe, John
Weyman, William-«.
ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Ferrari, Giovanni

Thompson, John Willia.m-2.

Moriah, Thomas-2.

Farnsworth, John Franklin

ENTERED APPRENTIOES :

Benjamin, Clinton Elisha
Chapman, William Dndley

Glossen, Josiah

Johns, John-4.

TRINITY LODGE, No. 27.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Simpers, George Washington

Le Boenf, Theophile-2,

Weavervllle, Trinity County,

DIED:

Crawford, Ellison Lassen

&ated Meetings, last Saturday in each month.
Reed, William Loois-2:

OFFICERS1

Detlef Hansen, Master,
John William Philbrook, Benior l>eacon,
John McMnrry, Senior Warqen,
John Weinheimer Meckel, Juniorl>eacon,
Theodore Elden Jones, Junior Warden, William Spencer Lowden, Marshal,
Peter Miner Paulsen, Treasurer,
Frederick Zarli,
l Stewards,
A.ngust Frederick Bremer, Secretary,
Charles Lncien Cass, f
John Henry Bremer, 1yler.

22

•
322

Returns of the Subordinate Lodgea

[Aug. 1,

J oho William Philbrook, Detlaf Hansen,
J oho Olifton Mason,
Theodore Eldon Jones.
James Harvey,
J oho .Hclllnrry,
Wiley James Tinnin, P. G. M., Henry Larkin Lowden,
MASTER MASONS :

' Goodyear, Charles Eugene Reed, Benjamin Hayden
Bates, Fordyce
Haas, Frederick Gottlieb Rowles , James
Blake, Belden Lafayette
l:lchall, Lonie John
Harden, David
Bowie, James
Schneider, Henry Conrad
Haskins, Albert P
Boros, Henry
Bhnford, John William
Hays, Hiram Bennett
Carter, John Walker
Smith, Champion W
Cbamb!;rlain, Panl Leonard Hopp, William Irvin
Smith, Jeremiah
Killin, Richard .
Oonklln, Homer Thomas
La Saree, William Heresy Smith, John Huron
Commings, James
Leas, George Washington Stiller, Richard William
Day, John Dixon Oope
Swift, Edwa,rd Dexter
Leonard, H enry WilliRm
Dimock, Frank Leslie
McWhorter, A.dam Lytle Timmerman, Lonie Fred'k
Fisher, John Stuart
Van Matre, George
Miller, Thomas Love
Flagg, Jacob Redding
Newman, Michaentoosh Van Matre, John Chandler
Garvin, Robert Jackson
Personette, Moses William Vollmers William
Given, Horace Robert
Wells, Ri~bard Brown
Given, William Cashman Peterson, Erick
Wilson, James-63.
Raab, Lonie Frederick
Goetze, Henry William
FELLOW CRAFTS :

Mortimer, Washiogto~-2.

Black, Harry Eugene
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Whitmore, John-I.

Carlson, Charles Allred-I.

SUSPENDED FOB NON.PAYMENT OF DUES :

Jaoksoo, Henry Jeao-1.
DIED:

Dannenbrink, Conrad
Essick, Deity

Panlson, Jacob

To the G-rand Lodge of OaU/<YrnW..

323

Paet Maatera 1

Past Maatera 1

.

1895.]

Sturdevant, Joseph Allen....:,,

GOLDEN GATE LODGE, No. 30.
San Francbco, San Franclac:o County,

Stated Matings, first Tueaday in each month.
OFFJCERS1

Frank Christian Pauli; Senior Denoon,
Theodore Hall Macdonald, Master,
Charles Otto Johoeoo, Junior DeaCOfl,
William Henry Lillie, Sen. Warden,
George Prescott Vance, Mar•hal,
Thomas Trebell, Junior Warden,
RufuB Wadleigh Thompson l
James Patterson, 7re"s11r1w,
Steioa.rds,
Jamee Lausen Baar,
George John Hobe, 860f'etary,
John D'Arcy, Tyler.

Ir

William Schnyler Hoses, John Osborne Doane,
Thos. Robb Hensbelwood,
George John Bobe,
James Henry Skelly,
William Sydney Phelps,
Slade Anthony Earle,
Hiram Throop Graves,
Ed ward Mortimer Oottrell, Robert Bright,
George Cameron Forsyth,
James Patterson, ·
Amasa Plnmmer Flaglor,
Samuel Henry Kent,

James Holroyd Hnmphreya,
George Prescott Vanoe,
John Thomas Grey,
Edwin Lewis Meyer,
Rnfns Wadleigh 'l'hompson,
Theodore Hall Macdonald,
Niels Iversen.

MASTER MASONS :

Ackerman, Obarles Herman Garratt, Benjamin Fraokllo Merx, Emil Otto Herman
Goddard, George Henry Mestoo, Robert
Aitken, James
Griffiths, Thomas Hamlyn Moller, Erdmann Leopold
Aitken, James (2d)
Akmann, Oharles George Groth,Boreo Gudme Birk'm Montell, Edgar Henderson
.Morris, Edward Thomas
Hague, Charles J ohn
Anderson, Charles
Hamilton, William J ohnson Mnirhead, John Scott
Aspe, J ohn William
Nicolson , Alexander
Harrington, John
Backus, Oharles
Nielsen, Peter
Hawkes, John Henry
Bain, John
Nightingale, John
Hedley, John
Bennett, James Henry
Nntson, Charles Andrew
Heo,cken. Martin
Bluhm, William George
O'Connor, Thomas Michael
Henrix, Edward
Blyth, Henry
Owens, John
Bridgman, John Wyndham Hetherington, Henry
Parks, John
Hewitt, Charles Henry
Brown, John
Bnddiogtoo, Moses Jones Hogeboom,Le.w'e Vosberg Paul, Albert Henry
Peters, J ohn Henry
Holm, Ohristiao
Bnndeseo, Boy
Holmes, Geo. Alexander Peterson, Soren Baltzer
Borne, Henry Bernhard
Raphael, Robert
Bussell, Arthnr
Howell, Edward Henrv
Reed, James
Bnddlestoo, Hngh
Byrnes, William Andrew
Reese, Eve.n Leander
Hughes, George
Oairos, John Tborbnrn
Reynolds, Ed' d Blessington
Jackson, John Farren
Oampbell, Robert
Rice, NllBLonis
Jensen, Niels P eter
Oarlsoo, Otto Wilhelm
Richardson, Charles
Kaoce, Francis
Oarter, Daniel Alonzo
Kihn , John F red. Herman Robinson, Richard Gregory
Cavarly, John Mansfield
Ronntree, James
Killman, Henry 0
Christian, Caosar
Kitchen, William Mortimer Ronotree, Moses Edmund
Ohristie, Henry Pithie
Rogg, Amos Uriah
Koief, George Ernest
Olark, George Dickson
Salvesen, Reier
Koefoed, Charles Jean
Cook, Aaron
Le Ge.I, Clilrenoe Lindsay Satchwell, John
Oook, l'hillp Henry
Cumming, Joseph Moore Leslie, ,A.ndrew Thomas · Schwarz, R. Obas. Burkhard
Beaman, George M
Levach, Alexander
De.vldsoo, Walter Park
Deacon, William
Lindberg, Knot Wilhelm Beymonr, Alfred Oollios
Shane, A.dolphns D,
De Lisle, Raymond Frank Little, George Ed ward
Simpson, John
Dnnoe, Francis Henry
Little, William Tell
Smith, Charles Ward
Edmondson, J ohn George Lowry, J obo
Maooie, Emmett Marcell Smith, Henry
E~man, Robert
Smith, Jacob Morton
Marcucci, Domingo
Ekstrom, John Emannel
Smith, John James
Martin, Wiiiiam Joseph
Eschen, James Carl
Smith, William J ohn
Matthews, Henry
Everding, John
McCulloch, John Edward Smith, William Magons
Fake, George John
Spear, William J ohn
Foord, James
McKeoo, John
Stafford, William Gardner
Freese, Andrew Christian McLeod, Aogns
Mtoklrebye, Peter Madsen
Mee.ros, James
Freese, John Herman
Strang, Alexander.
Fullerton, John
Merrill, Albert Henry

324 .

Returns of the Stibordinate Lodgf,s

Stratman, John
Torner, Matthew
Tapking, Bernhard Fred'k Van Dozer, Oliver
Thomas, William
Van Pelt, John Henry
Venker, Henry Herman
Thomson, Thomas
Tbornberg,Anton Frederick Vorratb, Charles Ohristian
Tilton, Charles Osborn
Wallace, Christian
Torey, Staoley
Wallace, Thomas
Tower, Horace Frederick Walsh, George Charles

[Aug. 1,

Weaver, Dwight Smith
Wells, William
Whitelaw, Tbos. Potaro H.
Whitham, John Hastings
Wllson,.Arthnr Latto
Wilson, Charles William
Wilson, John Oharles-179.

RESTORED:

Rngg, Amos Uriah-1.

1895.]

OPHIR

f\

Pugh, William Henry
Graves, Charles Henry
Hanson, Edw'd Hensbeldey Rost, Edgar Cbnrcb
Pearce, Henry lll:artin
Shaw, Stephen Browne-9.
Cameron, Daniel

LODGE, No. 33.

Stated Meetinga, third Saturday in eaCh month.
OFFICERS1

Warren Nathaniel Garland, Ben. Deacon,
George Lewis Troe, Master,
Horace Edson Thorpe, .Junior Deaoon,
Willis Dunbar, Senf.or Warden,
Grant Starr More, Marshal,
.Toho E Holland, Junior Wa1·den,
Riley Senter, freasurer,
Frederick Batten,
l Btswanllr,
Mathew Henry Manuel, f
J obn McQuig, Beoretary,
Thomas Prothero, Tyler.
Paat Maatera :

George Lewis True,
Frank Bowditch Moree,

DIED:

Battams, William

325

Murphy's. CalaYeraa County.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

De Lorenzi, Bartolo
Elwell, Frank David
Fraser, James Colborne

To th~ Grand Lodge of Oaliforni,a,,

Castle, Albert Edward-3.

Andrew Jackson Cooke,
Job·n Henry Heard,

Charles Lee.

MASTER MASONS:

Batten, George
Harris, Henry
O~rley, Joseph
Hoinsdorfl, John
Davies, James Sydenham 0 Jenkins, William Henry
Davie, Ansel
Larkin, William
Davis, Bradley Sherman
Leizza, John
Demartini, Angelo
Lloyd, Jnlius Sopbronioe
Driver, David Bakie. .
Manne), John
Gilmore, John Henry

GOLD HILL · LODGE, No. 32.
Lincoln, Placer County.

Manritson, Jonas Christian
McKenzie, Hector Dan
Pool, William
Ro88, Elias Elam
Scantlebnry, George Henry
Terry, M.ilo
Thomas, George Lloyd-S7.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

.McNeil, Robert Ware

Stated Meeti.,.gs, Saturday of or ne:z:t preceding Full Moon.

Simpaon, Barnum Lafayette-2•

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

OFFICERS:

Haueelt, John Michael Andrew-1.

Walter Jansen, Master,
Henry David Frederick, Senior Deaoon,
Frederick Calvin Davis, Senior Warden, George Francis Pemberton, Jr. Deaoon,
Charles Goy, Junior Warden,
Thomas Bnrrill Harper, Martha~
William Ingram, 77-eaaurer,
Albert James Gladding, l stewardt
John Haenny, Beoretary,
Henry William Bessac, r
'
John Goy, TJJ/£r.

SU~PENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Shaw, Alfred

Marshal, Frank Benjamln-2.
DIED:

Cox, Thomas Evans--L

P aat Maatera:

Thomae Burrill Harper,
Edmond Jones Sparks,
Albert James Gladding,
Walter Jansen,
Chris. ColumbllB Sanders, John Haenoy,
James Edga r Young,
Cbristop'r Henry Hoppert, John Gerber.

SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35.

MASTER MASONS:

Bnlens, John Lewis
Obamberlain, Thomae Lee
Clark, Owen
Crosby, Fred Chase
Crosby, J osiab Chase
Finney, William Norman
~'leming, Albert Carlyle
Frederick, Morris Huse

Gray, Galusha
Guthrie, James Frank
Handling, Thomas
Hartwick, Robert Charles
Hill, John Albert
Bill, Edward Eugene
Hislop, William

Nader, Henry
Naab, Lorenzo Dow
Powers, Amos Matthew
Rivas, Emanuel
Roberts, William Ewing
Sparks, William Martin
Wile•, John Marshall-38.

San Diep, San Dle&"O County,

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:z:t preuding Full Moon.
OFFICER!il1

E NTERED APPRENTIOEB:

Chapman, James Albert

Noyes, Charles 0-2.

..,,

Gilbert Conger Arnold, Master,
William Levings Pierce, Sen. W c1rden,
Mlnord Jonathan P errin, Jun. Warden ,
Juba Henfrey Simpson, Treaav.rer,
John Keep Blackmer, Secretary,
Eli Tacker Blackmer, Chaplain,

Walter Herbert Murphy, Sen. Deaoon,
John Willis Lambert, Junior Deacon,
William Angostus Begole, Marshai;
Hans Marquardt,
l Stewarda,
Albert Wate Corey, i
Thomas Goodwin J·effris, Tyler.

326

Returns of the Subordinate Loa{Jes

[Aug. 1,

Pa•t lllaeter CI

Philip Crosth waite,
Daniel Cave,
Daniel Browor Knrtz,
George MifHin Dannals,
Marcus Schiller,
Addison Morgan,
William A.ngostns Begole, Eli Tucker Blackm
er,
Jolin Waldo Thompson,
·John Keep Blackmer,
William Wallace Bowers, William John MoBllb
older,
Simon Levi,
George Forste r,

Solon William Craigu e,
John Milton Clark,
William Freder ick Scbnet ae,
Lewis Steenrod McLnre,
William Stearn s MoClellan,
Robert M MoKla lay,
Peter Walter Beamer.

1895.]

To the (han d Lodge of Oolif umw.

Wescott, Edmond
Wood, James David
Veal, William
Walker, William Thoma s Whitney Edwar d Ellswo rth Wootten, John Benne tt
Whitson: William Weeley Wright , Ralph Leone
Waters, Henry Robert
Wyatt, Charles C.
Watson, Charles Chauncey Whitson, John W
Yoong , John A.lford-176.
Weineke, Henry ~illiam Wilson, Frank Seigle
Werthe imer, Isaac
FELLO W CRAFT S:

Fos, Willard Newball

MASTE R MASONS :

Allison, Juan Manwe ll
Dill, Albert Freema n
Lnoe, Moses Angnetlne
Asher, Joeeplme Ml\rion
Dnbrav"cich, Dinke M
Lyons, George
Bailey, Harvey
Dannells, Samue l Sumner Mannasse, Joseph Samue
l
Baldwin, Hugh John
Earle, George Wheeler
Matfield, George Harry
BILl'nes, Freder ick James Eldred ge, Samuel Crowel
l McDonald, Donald Roy
Barry, John
Ewing , William Alexander McDonald, J. Wade
Bass, John Duncan
Foster , George Simpson
McDowell, Samuel Alex.
Beard, Amo8
Fourni er, Ferdin and
McGnr ck, Edwar d
Blocbman, Ab1·aham
Frary, Frank Phineas
McMillan, George Hiram
Bose, Charles Michael
Fuller, William Harrieo·n McRae , John Ann
Bradt, Garret t Garreo n
Geiger , David
Middleton, George
Bradt, Horace
Ginty, Johb
Millard, Fordyc e Rust
Brandt , Charles Christian Goetz, John Evange list
Morrie, Arthur Adolphne
Breese , Robert
Goldbaum, Simon
Moree, Ephrai m Weed
Britt, Eugene W&duell
Green, John Wesley
Morton, Richard Charle s
Brown, Henry Jacob
Grow, Galush a Benton
Mumford, John Valentine
Brooke, Charles F., Sr.
Hacket t, Samue l Warren Nerney , Thomas A.lexle
Brust, Samuel
Hadley , Ephrai m Wilson Pampe rin, Henry
Bollis, William Shufelt
Hearne , Joseph Carter
·Power s, Robert Morris
Bor~ees, Edward Ezekiel
Beilbro n,John Henry Frd'k Rankin, Robert
Barwel l, William John
Hende rson, Claren ce A.nd. R11ymond, Jamee Doogla
M
Bnshyhead, Ed. Wilkerson Hinton , John Brnndridge
Rea, John Blacklock
Cameron, Thomae Ross
Hoole, Septim ns Freder ick Reed, David Cnrtis
Campbell, ChaP.Alexander Borton , Alonzo Erastus
Reed, John Pitts
Capron , John Garfield
Humph rey, Thoma s Henry Remondino. Peter Charle
s
Carle, Irving L
Hunt, Nathan
Rockfellow,Engene Franci~
ChBlle, Levi
Hngbe s, Moses
Schneider, Arnold
Christensen,Chris. Andreas Hylnnd , Charles John
Scribn er, George Osborne
Collier, David Charles
Jackso n, Jacob Yonng
Selove r, Sidney
Collier, William Bell
Jacoby , Henry Madison
Stewar t, William Wallace
Conklin, Norm:\n Henry
Johnso n, Edwar d Jewett Strassb urger, Nathan
Copeland, George Davis Johnso n, Pearl Marion
Strickl er, John W11aver
Coyne, Joseph
Jones, Victor
Suther land, David
Craig, Lewis Newto n
Journe ay, George
Swallo w, Charles Howe!
Dauer, Charles Rudolph
Jnlian, Archibald Hoston · Taylor , James Woodb
ury
Davis, Leonar d Fisk
Kent, Horace
Taylor, Barry Scott
Davie, Marray
Kent, Lewis Edgar
ThomBS, Richard Baker
Davidson, Frank Pierce
Kessler, Charles Freder ick Titns, Harry Lewis
Dawkins, Thomas Edward Klaube r, Abraha m
Titos, Nat. Robert
Day, Joshua Davis
Levi, Adolph
Troust rup,Jul lusArn dtEmll e
De Burn, Eugene
Loomil!, Charle s Clark
Turner , Orrick Norville
Decatur, James Godfre y
Lonie, Emanuel J
Ulrich, Albert Henry
Docking, ThomaR
Loais, Isidor
Van Norma n, Edgar Vernon

327

Martin , William Angns tns-2.

ENTER ED APPRE NTICES :

Little, John McDowell
Doyle, Georg~ . Allen
Pi11:ot, Louis Theodo re
Banbu ry, John Davis
Hunsaker, William Jefferson

Roark, James Alexan der
Stratto n, James -7.

AFFILI ATION S:

Dickson, John Chari~&

Hatch, Edwar d Jackso n

Merriam, Gastav us Frenc b-3.

RESTO RED:

.Hensl ey, James Harlan
Hubbe ll, Orrin Sage

Johnso n, Edward Alexander
Scribn er, George Osborne

Aitken, John R
Burnell, Barker
Dickson, John Charle s
Flick, Warren Jay

Hatch, Edwar d Jackso n
Long, John Thomas
Hub'-e ll Orrin Sage
Merriam, Gnstav ns French
Hensley,' James Harlan
Phillips,. Andrew .
Johnso n,Edwa rd Alexan der Tnrren tme, J ob n Neil 12
- •

Turren tine, John NeiJ-5 .

WITHD RAWN :

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Allen, William W
Cochran, A.rthnr Emmet t

Jeffrey, Robert Newto n
.
Lev1, Isaac

Pierce , Walter Webste r
Soribner, George Osborn e

-6.

DIED:

l'l&lsted, Leland Howar d

Wallac e, Albert Osborne

Whitfield, Gustav na-3.

ST. JOH N'S LOD GE, No. 37.
Yreka . Slakty ou <Joant y.

Stated Me.etings, firat Saturd ay in each month.
OFFIC ERS a

George Dexter Bntler, Senior Deacon,
A.lien Newto n, Mallter,
George Albert Tebbe, Senior Warden, John Taylor Bradley, Junior Deacon,
JameR Marcel lus Powers , Jvn. Warden, John Pashbn rg, Marahal,
William Wat.son Powers , Steward.I,
Maurice Renner , Treasurer,
Daniel Kenne dy,
Lonie Nordhe im, Secretary,
Samue l Pellet, 7'yler.

t

Past Maate n1

Manasseh Sleepe r,
John Pashbu rg,
Cortis Hoope r Pyle,
Bamoel Pellet,

George Dexter Butler,
Louis Philip Beheld,
Samnel Strothe r Williama,
Thoma s Henry Guilbe rt,
Fred'k Elijah Wadsw orth, Edward Donaghy.

9-28

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

MASTER MASONS :

Ackerman, Frank Smith
Grisez, Peter Nicholas
Riche.rds, Evan
He.rvey, Abre.m
Riche.rdson, Je.mes Albert
!,Jest, Willie.m
Boll, John Osie.s
He.wkioe, Austin
Richardson, Je.mee Boch'n
Henry, Che.rlee Ashmun
Riche.rdson, Sidney
Ohe.odler, Elmer Rolle.
Churchill, Jerome Percy
Heesig, Louie
Rutter, Jesse Brooks
Churchill, Jesse Warren
Jones, Thome.e
Schwe.tke., Andrew Edwe.rd
Kegg, John
Bchwe.tke., Henry Edwe.rd
Climper, John Christian
Davie, Alphonse Geo.We.sh. Kendall, Edward John
Shattuck, Silas;
Davie, Henry Levy
Kinsman, Lomes
Bonthworth, 'l'homasBenton
Davia, Jesse Francie
Laird, William Thomas
Spengler, Charles
Long, Jamee Franklin
Spengler, Frederick
Denny, Joseph Vance
Digglee, Henry Emit
Martin, Brice McCJendon '.C'erry, George Thomas
Dorgin, Ise.ac Alie.rd
Raynes, Alonzo Emery
Tyler, Gustavus Adolphns
Fitchette, Che.des Lee
Raynes, Herh't Rosborough We.llace, Emerson Henry
Fox, James Willie.m
Ream, Henry Belden
Ward, Keneth Lesten-64'.
Grisez, Frank Aogoet
FELLOW ORAFT :

Qnlrk, John-1.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:;

Ball, Edward
Griffin, Franklin Robert

Miller, J ohn--4..

Jolien, Julien August

SANTA CRUf LODGE, No. 38.
Santa Craz, Santa Cruz County.

'1. o the Grand Lorlge of OaU/ornia.

1895.]

Christofaoini, Antone
Hinde, Alfred Joseph
Pettit, Job Edward
Olark, Henry Adame
Hinds, Peter Richmond
Plancich, Nicblie Antone
Coblentz, Felix
Hoffmann, Frank Joseph Plant, Benjamin Anthony
Cohn, Aron
Jonas, Joseph Lewin
Porter, Benjamin Franklin
Coolt, John Howard
Jone~, Albert
Powell, Rolla
Kirkpatrick, Charles Thoe. Randall, Horace
Cox, Herbert Everv
Craig, Andrew
Knight, Benjamin, Jr.
Rice, Coffee Adame
Rueft, Gus. Ad. Karl Theo.
Our tie, Leonard
Kron, Henry Frederick
Darling, Be.rtier
Lenneux, Loois
Rnlofeon, Oharles Herman
Rossell, William
Danbenbis, John
Lincoln, Charles Henry
Donla;p, George
Linooln,'Orlando Jay
Schroeder, Charles
Dntton, Jamee Lewie
Lorenzen, Cody
Schwartz, Joseph
Dutton, James Marshall
Lorenzen, George
Sherwood, Charles Henry
Elfey, Robert
Lorenzen, Lawrence·
Snyder, Aagnetne Charles
Ely, Frank William
Lundy, Edwin Arthur
Soper, John
Ely, William
Maitland, Willie.m
Btaffier, George
Eonor, John Martin
Makinney, Bamp'n Emmet Steen, Jacob
Esty, James Duncan
Marshal, Albert Edward
Steinmetz, Charles
Martin,Charles Christopher Still, Arthnr
Fagan, Pierce Bye
Farnham, Enoch George Mason, Lewis Tracy
Stribling, Philip Thomae
Fast, John Henry Adolph Mathews, Theodore Vinton Sullivan, John Thomae
Fergoson, Daniel
MiiAdame, Joseph Yarmane Swanton, Albion Paris
Fischer, Antone
Menefee, Frank George
Thayer, Trnmao Ransom
Fitch, Edwin
Middleton, Edward Angnet Thompson, Richard
Foreme.n, Stepb. Whittaker Middleton, Henry Louis
Thompson, William
Freshour, Joseph Terra
Middleton, William Fackler Tront, Daniel Hawk
Gamble , William W
Mikel, Sidney Fulton
Weller, Richard
Garrett,Edward Huntington Moore , Thomas Walker
Wenck, William Henry
Gilchrist, .Adam
Moolion, John Bisbee
.. Willey, Henry
Griswold, Belden
Nash, William. J
Williams, Edward Lawrence
Hager, Benjamin Sanford Oliver, William
Willis, Ellery
Basle.m, William Douglas Olsen, Peter Bophlne
"Winkle, Benry-130.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Elbon, Harrold Frank

OFFICERS1

Edward Swift West, Ma.ter,
Henry Joseph Godfrey, Senior IJeacon,
Joseph :Mathias Bpeddlng, Sen. Warden, Joseph Terry Brooks, Junior Deacon,
Lawrence John Dake, Jun1or Warden, Urial Schimmerhorn Nichols, Marshal,
John Werner. TretUUrer,
·
John Parker fwiet, I Stewards
f
'
William Henry Bias, Secretary,
Edgar Hobart,
Bernhard Wise, Tyl.w.

Dinis, Charles Withington

Baxter, Robert Jamee
Biliadao, John Henry
Blum, Isaac
Bowman, Edward
Briggs, Jamee Rossell

Sussman, Max Adolph-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

DIED :

Markham, Levant-1.

Doane, Bandley Bushnell-I.

YUBA LODGE, No. 39.
Cathers Drummond Folsom,
John Severio,
Thompson Wilson Drnllard.

Maryn•flle, Yuba County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

MASTER MASONS :

Anderson, Oharlee Lonie
Angell, Tenner Almerion
Baker, Charles.
Bartlett, Samuel Arnold
Basey, John Clinton

Trask, J oseph-:1.
WITHDRAWN;

Past Ma&1era1

George Keating Porter,
Edward Swift West,
Samnel Barnet,
William Ray Porter,
Frederick William Locas, Oscar Leonard Gordon,

329

OFFICERS a

Brown, William
Bork, Bart
Cain, Jamee Henry
Chace, Johu Rnfns
Chamberlain, Philander

Rael Halloway Waggoner, Master,
Guy Beancaetle Stokes, Se1i, Deacon,
Elmer Ellsworth Stone, Sen. Warden,
Edward Davidson Myrer, Jun. Deacon,
Oscar Frederick Stoadley, Jun. Warden, Thomae Hugh Hernan, Mar11hal
John Charles Lu'mbard, 7retJBUret",
Charles Aguetns Webb, St
'd
3
lames Fred Eastman, Seoretary,
Aile'! Broecop Hopkins,
er.oar '
William Henry Stoy, Chaplain,
Amoe Fisher, 7)/ler,

I

23

330

Returns of the Subordina.te Lodge1J

[Aug. I,

Paet Ma&t•ra:

Andrew Middle mas Shields,
Charles E Stone,
Charles Milton Patterson,
Andrew Jackson Binney,

Thomas Hugh Steel,
Jesse Beech Foller,
David Powell,
Ortis Frederick Lee,

Past Maaten 1

Benry Dietrich King,
George William Hall,
Samnel Josiah Smith Rogers.

MASTER MASONS:

.Anderson, John Edmond
Ewell, Samuel
MoNntt, John Fleming
Armer, Herman.
Falk, Herman
Meek, Emmerson Emmet
Arnold, Thomas Jellerson Fay, Edward
Menz, Albert Jolina
Arp, Henry
Featberly, Mathew Thomas Millar, Robert
Aubrey, Frank Oornelios Fenwiok, William Arthur Moon, Benjamin
Ayer, Leonard Bernard
Fronk, George Martin
Neal, George Washington
Baldwin, George Bellew
Frost, Simeon Loder
Pascoe, Charles Flood
Barr, James Holmes
Gianella, Vinceozio
Peffer, John
Batchelder, Adooiram Jod'n Gribner, George Thomas Potter, Frank W
Beachgood, Charles Henry Hapgood, Oharlee
Prickett, Enos Samuel
Bevan, Richard Edwin
Heintzen, George
Rideout, Benjamin Norman
Bradley Samuel Henry
Heon, William Theophiloe Seeger, William
Brittan, Rob't Edward Lee Hortop, Philip
Skinner, Randolph Whitney
Cory, Perry
Hotchioe, Gavin Walker
Slingsby, William
Oreighion, David
Hutchins, Jamee Walker
St. John, Enos Frost
Crepe, William Albert
Knaogh, Joshua
Stoddard, William Seward
Dallam, Joseph Swaim
Knight, Edgar Blake
Stratton, Cornelioe Allen
Danforth, Ularence Edward Libby, <Jharlee Herbert
Thom, David, Jr.
Davie, Edwin Amenzo .
Logan, Anderson Dabney Thompson, Ernest Briceno
Dixon, John
Malloch, Henry
Townsend, Benry Roy Don
Earnsbielde, Victor Lewis Masterman, William Henry Wheelock, John DeJ:ter
Engel, John Philip
.M:cClintock, William
White, Asher Bordett-91.
Engel, Peter
.M:cMortry, John Van Anglen
FELLOW CRAFT:

Buckelew, William Cla)ton-1.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Smith, Francis Edwin

Lipp, Albert Powell

Suggett, Allen Holman-3.

WITHDRAWN:.

McKenney, William Davis-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bradley, Charles J,eonard

331

1895.]

Hyde, Henry Ferdinand

Marsales, Frank-3.

SACRAMENTO LODGE, No. 40.
Sacramento, l!iacramento County,

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William ·Frederick Wiard, Master,
Richard Vaughan, Senior ])11acan,
Joseph Wilcoxson Hughes, Seti. Wa1·den, John AleJ:aoder Macdonald, Jun. De<UJOn,
John Newell Blair, Junior Warden,
John Walter Boyd, Marshal,
William Monroe Petrie, '.lreasurer,
Jamee Franklin Lueas, l Ste
di
John T Griffitts, SecretaT71,
Jacob Philip Molter, I
war '
Thomas Ross, Tyler.

Frank Ellis Lambert,
Powell Samuel Lawson,
Geo. Howard WinterlJqrn, ~lch~•4 Palmer B1m,
Jay Roshell Brown,
James O'Neil,
Rufus Burnham Harmon,
William Monroe Petrie,
Wm. Durrant Knights,
John T Griffitt.a,
Edmund C.Atkinson,P.<J.M• Ric hard Ou trer Irvine,

John Walter Boyd,
tl,-ander Berry Willis,
Benjamin Norton Bngby,
Edward Jamee Oroly,
Chester Walter Eldred,
John King.

MASTER MASONS:

.Acocl{, Thomas L- Fayette. Rack, Benry Leonard
Oqell, Merrill Franois
Andrew, Adam
Hagely, John
Olney, Cephas Charles
.Appleton, Joseph
Hale, Evert Wilber11
Ostrander, Oharlee Edward
Ball, Thomas Dnstin
Hale, Marshal, Jr.
fayen, Louis
Barrett, John
Hale, Prentiss Cobb
Perkins, Thom-a Calley
Bassett, William Walter
Hale, Reuben Brooks
Phillips, George
Billingsley, Urban Clark
Bammer,MoeheimSchmoc'r Pi~reon, Henry H
Boyd, Thomas
Hatch, Wilber Mark
Porter, Clive William
Bragg, Henry William
Bayes, George William
Prideau, Richard Blight
Briggs, William Ellery
Hayford, Jamee Barrows Read, John Addison
Brooks, Daniel Joseph
Henley, Michael Jamee
Reeves, John Wesiey
Brown, John Pemper
Holbrook, Charles
Reith, John
Burdick, Joseph
Holmes, H~nry T
Robin, Charles
Ohiperowsky, Max
Hopkins, Edward Oarmi
Roes, David S
Clark, George Harvey
Hornlein, Hugo Angnst
Ruedy, John
Colborn, James A
Hornlein, Malt Edward
Sanborn, Arthnr Byron
Conaway, George Winfield Bowell, Sidney Algernon Scbaw, William
Cook, Hiram
Humphrey, AothollY Boyd Scnlp, John Peter
Ootbrin, William Kip
Hant, John Alexander
Schwoerer, Louis Martin
Crocker, Henry Smith
Jones, Perry Evert
Shonefelt, William Domer
Croly, James
Just, John Peter
Siebenthaler, Philip
Curtis, Melanchton J
Kellogg, Harry Welle
Sime, Joseph
Darling, Henry Job
Kimberly, Dayld Calvin
Smith, Frank Angnetns
Darwin, John
Knights, Williaiµ Rudd
Snell, Chauncey Newell
Davis, James Gilliland
Knowles, Charles Lounee Snell, Frank Scott
D~nham, James Flemming Laine, Joseph Regist
Stanley, Leander
Dlereeen,Geo.ErnestAugust Laroe, Bogh McElroy
Steinmeyer, Fred'k Wilhelm
Dixon, William Henry
Locke, Geo. W-shington Stephenson, William Albert
Drew, Nathaniel Lafayette Lohre, Charles 4
Storm, Matthew Drysdale
Dwyer, Michael
Lyon, Edw11rd
Turton, Willialll
Farr, David
Maddison, Wiiiiam John
Wallace, Henry Kilborn
Flemming, Frank
Mayo, Joseph Eli
Wallqnist, Charles John
George, Wilbur Forast
McKelvey, Oharles
White, Thomas Bibbard
Gillis, Dugald
Miller, John (}
Wilcoxson, Jellerson
Givens, John Ely
M:ill~r. Peter Andrew
Williams, Galvin Fletcher
Grant, Duncan
Miller, William Bnchanu.n Williams, William Georj!e
Green, John Albert
Morton, Charles Wardle
Willis, William Ladd
Gtiffin, James Buchanan
Nash, Hiram De Witt
Wilson, John Anderson
Orintoo, John Kennedy
Nelson, Christian
Wilso11, Willia~
Guth, Joseph, Jr.
Nichole, Arthur Lambard Wood, William-HG.
FELLOW CRAFT:

Guernsey, Amasa Allen-1.
DIED:

Hatch, Jamee Darrow
Jndklns, Caleb M

Robinson, Robert
Stevens, Charles Henry

Tyron, Sylvester-Ii.

33~ .

Rdurns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

MARTINEZ LODq-E, No. 41.

LOS . ANGELES LODGE, No. 42.

Martinez, Contra Costa County.

Loa Aneele11. Loa An&"elem County.

Sta.ted Meetings, first Monday in each month.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS•

OFFICERSt

Carl Frederick August Last, Maller,
Simon Oahen, Senior Warden ,
William Renry Riggs, .Junior Warden,
Edward Anthony Prenss, 7Teasurer,
Daniel John Carr, Secretary,
Abraham Wolf Edelman, Ohaplain,

John Babtiste Tennent, Senior Deacon,
William Sewall Wells, Master, ·
Albert Edmond Blnm, Senior' Warden, George B"rnes Wolford, .Tunior .Deacon,
James Langston Bnell, Junior Warden, John Williams, "Marshal,
Lewis Cass Wittenmeyer, 7reasurer,
William John Douglas, l Stewards,
f
Joseph Beaudette,
Max Blnm, Beci·etary,
William Henry Bnckley, Tyler.

Isidor WeiBB,
Seeley James Bennett,
Bugh Pngh Edwards,

Baldwin, Barry
Beda, Paul
Blnm, Gabriel
Blum, Myrtil
Blum, Simon
Boyd, John Wheaton
Bragdon, Edmund
Carothers, James Henry
Carpenter, Alexander
Oarter, George Edward
OaUett, Theodore Scott
Cousins, Charles Samuel
Oramer, Harry Theodore
Oroshy, William A
Duffy, William Joseph
Evans, Levi
Evans, Robert Griffith

Fassett, William
Fernandez, Bernardo
Field, William A
Fraser, John Alexander
Gartley, Alonzo Lamb
Gny, John William
He wltt, Amos Lorenzo
Hoogh, William Je.rome
Ipswitch, John
Ja.oobs , Samuel Beer
Jaoqnith, William Clark
Jones, Joseph Philip
Lassell, Erastus Perkins
Lucas, John Goncolves
Menefee, Orville lvin
Nenstadter, Bernard

Samuel Prager,
Thomas Edwin Rowan,
Charles Prager,
8amuel Calvert Foy,
John Goldsworthy,

George Atwood Sherman,
William Sewall Wells.

MASTER MASONS :

FELLOW CRAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Rehnert, Charles William Wolcott, William Milton--4.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Ohase, Eli Robbin

Abraham Wolf Edelman,
Ansel Mellen Brag~,
Thomas Strohm,
Thomas James Ouddy,
James Franklin Burns,

Oarl Frederick Aognet Last,
Edward Anthony Preuss,
Abraham Marx,
Max Wasserman.

MASTER MASO.NB :

Overfield, George Smith
Overfield, Elenry Dnnicake
Paul, Alvin A
Pavoline, Girolino
Pollock, Alexander Fletcher
Prosser, Watkins L
Rhine, Oharles
Rhine, Jacob
Swihart, George
Taggart, HarryWallace
Tinning, William S
Tongis, Christopher
Turner, Benjamin Coffin
Weiss, Richard Andrew
Werner, Albert Younger
Walker, Arthur Richardson
.....:S4.

Booth, William Francis-1.
Bertold, John Victors
Marsh, Joshua

Abraham Moses Edelman, Senior De1111on,
John King, Junior Deacon,
Patrick Martin Darcy, Marshal,
Edward Hall Miller, l Stewards,
f
Felix Levy,
John M.cllmoil, Tyler.

Past Masters•

Pan Mastera 1

Lewis Cass Wittenmeyer,
William Henry Buckley,
William John Douglas,

333

McCarger, Phllander-2.
DIED:

Raymond, Charles Seward-I.

\

Jackson, John Eugene
Eva.as, David
Anderson , John
Jaeger, Lonie John Fred'k
Appel, NRthan Benjamin Eyrand, Emannel
Jeffries, William Thomas
Baldy, Alexander Jordan Eyraod, Joseph ·
King, William John
Fenton, Henry
Ballade, Pascoal
Lane, Frank Joseph
Barnett, William Theodore Fitzgerald, Pllol Henry
Last, John Ludwig Adolph
Flynn, John Bernard
·
Bayer, Joseph
Laventhal, Elias
Frnnk, Samnel
Behrendt, Oaspar
Leo, John
Frazer, Alexander
Bell, George H
Beroetein, Joseph Alfred Freeman, Edwin Herbert Levy, Ell Jnlins
Levy, Lonie
Blomenberg, Samuel Purdy Gllbriel, Adolph Jonas
Levy, Michael
Gaffey, John Tracy
Brill, Joseph
Llewellyn, William
Germain, Edward
· Brown, James
Longnevan, Jos. Beaoreg'd
Butfum, William Maxwell Germain, Eugene
Map:ons, Belmar
Glass, John Malcolm
Burchell, Leon
Goldschmidt,Herm'nHirschMagnlre, John Francis
Campbell, John Henry
Mahoney, John James
Goldschmidt, Marcus .
Carson, George
Maier, Joseph
Gotthelf, David
Choate, James Jefferson
Malcolm, William
Griffith, Jolla McKim
Clark, Thomas Bernard
Mar'x, Ralph Edwin
Griffith, Thomas
Clifford, Thomas
Masac, Theophilus
Griggs, William Francis
Cohen, Benjamin
McCormick, Matthew
Griswold, Lloyd D
Cohn, Harris
McCracken, Jeff Tran ville
Gross, Frederick
Cohn, Caspar
McFarland, Walter
Hall, Reary Clayton
Colling, Meujamin
Mcinnis, Aognst G
Hanscom, Lewis P
Corwin, James Spencer
Meyer, Samuel
Hauch, Isaac
Defty, William Emanuel
Mendelson, Morris Aaron
Heitohen, Abraham 8
Dryden, Gny Frank
Moir, Frank
Doccomnn, Charles Louis Hellman, Isaias William
Moore, Walter Scott
Hellman, James Wolf
Eckert, Robert
Morris, Joho Wood
Ellis, Herbert Henry Max' ll Hernandez, Anthony
Morris, Julias Louis
Elliott, James McCandless Hubbard, Henry Outler
Morris, Moritz
Illich, Jeremiah
Enz, Charles August

834

Returns of the Subordi114te Ladg~

[Ang. 11

Neitzke, Ernest
Stanton, Edwin
Rosin, Benjitmin
Newman, Frank Herbert Roth, Edmond
8 tern, Emanuel Lionel
Newmark, Harris
Sqmmerlan d, Theodore
Henry
Ruiljlell,
Noel, James
·
s·w1tzer,
Ryan, Michael Edwin
Commodore Perry
Norton, Isaac
van Dingstee,
Satter, Anton
Rodolph
Norton, Moses
Waldeck, Jacob Emma
Conrad
Scheerer,
O'Hanlon, John Robert
Walker, Lucien Eli
Schone, John
Pavkovich, John Luke
Schweitzer, Conrad Franz Weldon, Artbnr
Philbin, John Andrew
Wharton, Mesheck
Seaman, Lucien Shaw
Platt, Charles Decatur
Williamson, Geo. Wasbin t'n
H~nry
William
Sbaug,
Edward
Platt, Francis
g
Witkind, Simon
Shaw, Thomas William
Platt, Je~se
WoJ• s· r . d
Sheftel, Marcos
rie
1g
'•
·
s m1th,Benj.F
Portugal, Adolph
ranklin Porter Wallaoott Henry Job 0
Radican, Bernard
'
· h t, Francis
wng
·
Smith, Nelson
Marion
Sol
Reeder, Joseph Clark
Wright, Wallace Johnson '
an
omon,JHeym
Rose, Truman Harrison
. George •
S olomon, ohn B
y app, F reder1ck
-164.
FELLOW CRAFTS ,
How, John Emmett

Joyce, Thomas Francis

Michelson, George-3.

Save, Celestin
Smith, Isaiah Phillip

Corwin, James Spencer
Clark, Thomas Bernard

Galfey, John Tracy

Sylvanus, Joseph Ennis-5.

RF.sTORED :

Neitzke, Erneet.- 4.

WITHDRAWN:

Bonynge, Walier Alfred-I.
Thompson, Jamee-~.

HIRAM LODGE , No. 43.
El Dorado, El Dorado County.

....
Stated Meeting8, 8'1turda11 of or nezt preceding Full ~uoon,
OFFICERH :

C
William Johii Jewell Master
11
Gerhard Heinrich Oii;hmann Sr Warden W~J~e Olay Cantrell, lJr. Deacon,
' T~ iam Fletcher Cotton, Jun, I>eacon,
William Henry Pallett, Jun.' Warden
Ch eodore Cbarle8 Morebeck, Ma1·1hal,
'
John Adolphus Fisher 1rea•urer
Anadrles EJdwakrd Peterson, t Btewardl
'
William Yeadon, iSecr:itary,
•
rew ac son Warf f
'
Lewis Madison, Briggs, Tyf.er.
Paat Ma•ter81

Andrew Jackson Warr,
John Adolphus Fisher,

John Bordie,

335

MASTER MASONS:

Berry, Reuben Kelle.)'
Coblentz, Cerf
Coblentz, Da•id
Cox, Joseph Francis
Haas, John

I

'

Opie, John
Hammell, Bradford
Harvey, George Waebi11gt.on8almon, George Washington
Skinner, William Henr}'
Kleiner, Frank Jo~eph
McKenzie, William Burgees Tripp, Stephen-2'1 .
Miller, Daniel Peter
FELLOW CRAFT:

Porter, ·George Neleon-1.

MOUNT MORIA H LODGE , No. 44.
San Francisco , San Franclli<lo Coanfy,

OFFICER S:

William F.:dward Boyer, Senior Deacon,
Frank Randolph Whitcomb, Moster,
Joseph Lambert Crittendeo, &m. Ward., John Frederick Schroth, Junio•· JJeacr>n,
Edgar Cortis8 Sotlilfe, Junior Warden, William Rainey Hewitt, Marshal,
Harry Griffin Richards, l Steward8
John David Richards, 7reasurer,
'
William Russell King, f
Theodore Frolich, Secretary,
John D' Aroy(of Golden Gate,No.80),Tyl.er.
David Mathews Richards, Ohaplain,
Past Masters 1

DIED:

Curran, Michael Edwi~

To the Grand Lodge of Oalijaf"nia.

Stated Mutinga, firat Wedneaday in eGCh month.

ENTERED .APPRENTICES:

Cooper, George John
Davis, Alexander

1895.]

Damascus Bennett.

John Charles Jens,
Harvey Mathews,
George Cl'aW Hickox,
Dan Joseph Edgar,
Everett,
Henry
Daniel
Russell,
Adam
John
David Mathews Richards, Henry Mortimer Fiske,
William David Johnston,
Robert Wilson Morphy,
William Gorham Doolittle, Theodore Frolich,
Peter Bock Nagle,
John GTeig Leghorn,
Davis Louderback,
Frank William Rossbach, Aaron Lewis Chamberlin.
Joseph Lippman,
Pao! Gue. Adolphus Beiler, Thos. Jefferson Shackleford,
MASTER MASONS:

Calden, Guy Chester
Bemis, Charles Coo.k
Abrahamson, Peter
Calvin, William Henry
Bennett, Robert Hazlitt
Adler, Adolph
Carr, Edwin Wallace
Bergen, Alexander
Alderson, David Harrie
Oevasco, Giovanni Battista
Bernstein, Solomon
Ames, Frank Holmes
Cbaeeagne, Leon
Belz, Johannes
. Amee, Frank Mortimer
Clarke, Benjamin Franklin
Bosworth, Henry Martin
Anderson, Carl Alfred
Cochran, James Henry
Bozio, Orlando
Badger, William Gilman
Connelly, Francie Joseph
Bradley, John Samuel
Banner, Victor
"Cornwall, Frank
Brooke, William P11rker
Bernard, Frank
Cullins, George
Brown, John Bearcliff
Bakke, Severns Johnson
Bnckoa~,Edmond Hinckley Ouunibgham, Tbo11. Stanle.)'
Barnes, John
Currier, Amos
Borke, Edmund William
Jefferson
Thomas
Bass,
l>avis, Henry Laurens
Batcheider, Nathan Preso'tt Bnrke, William Gordon
Davis, John Warner
Bosh, Hyman Philip
Bell, Joseph Vincent

336

ReturnJJ of the Subordinate Lod.ges

[Aug. 1,

Rasey, Charles William
Hunter , James
Davie, Morris White
Read, John Herber t
Hyde, Alexan der
Dennis, Frank Haskins
Reamer , Frederi ck
Hyman, Presley Corbyn
Dennis, Samoel William
Reid, John Woods
Samoel
Irving,
Diers, Peter Matthia s
Riley, Oornellos
Jacobs, Albert
Diez, Oaetor Oayetano
Rolls, John Sellers
Jacobs, Henry
Dixon, William John
Rosenstock, Silmuel ..W"
Johnson , Otto
Doane, Micah ·
Rossbach, Oharles Henry
Henry
John
Otto
,
Johnson
Downs, John
Rosscamp, Hermann
Jones, George Edward
Eaton; Frederi ck Ward
Rothchild, Maurice .Alg'non
Kelly, J oho
Eberha rt, Adolphns
Ruggles, John Edward
Murray
Robert
King,
Isidor
rg,
Eisenbe
John Ohrlstian
Sack,
Frank
Klar,
Ellery, Epes
, Ebenez er Davis
Sawyer
Marks
Gabriel
Emereon, John Aogoatos Kutz,
Soheor er, Christian
Laventbal, Samoel
Feil:, John
Schloss, Benjamin
Lebeob aum, Louis
Figel, Joeeph
Schmidt, Valentine
Herman
Levy,
Ernest
Finlayson, John
er, Johann Lonie
Schroed
Henry
Charles
Lewis,
Fisk, Alexander
Schroth , John Frederi ck
Liane, John Oonrad
Fiske, William Henry
Bchnlenhorg, Adolph
Lippman, George W
Flynn, Thomas Emmet t
k,Wilh.CarlHenaing
Schwar
ck
Frederi
Lux,
J
Foy, John
Philipp
Seibel,
John
land,
MacFar
·
Frank, Emanuel Max
Seidner ; Philip
May, William Bandman
Freeman, Elisha
Shaelfer, Edgar Werner
Garwood, William Thomson McKay, Alexander
Shafer, Henry
Dillon
Thomas
ne,
McKen
William
Geist,
Siebe, John Henry
Thomas
John
ie,
McKenz
dge
Shoebri
Gilbert, George
Sladky, Josef Adam
McLaughlin, Michael
Goldbe rg, Jacob
Smith, Herbert LeBaron
Goodman, Theodore Henry McLean, John
Smith, John Henry
McNab, James
Gordan, Jaoob
r, Frank Aaron
Spence
Henry
Jolius
Medau,
Elias
Go~llnsky,
William Henderson
Stark,
McGaw
Ieaac
Merrill,
Gray, Richard
Steinman, Bernard
Merry, Thomas
Hacke, William Conrad
8tephen e, William Jenkin ·
Harper , Fred Fogg Gale Meyer, Loois
Stonehill, Edward Bernard
n
Caulfma
Marcos
Meyer,
h
Randolp
n,
Harriso
Montealegre,Carlos Fr'nc'o Bach, Francis Lundy
Harshall, Gustav
Swain, Henry Olay
Henry Branne n
Myers,
Hartsho rn, Elbridg e
Trobock,Bartholomew Nich.
Ohmen, William Henry
Hanser, Albert Maria
Vaenberg, Abraham
Haveley , William Thomas Ohnetein, Oscar Jul.Emi l E.
Van Dozer, Abraham Perry
Mahloo
Oorra
,
Osborn
enry
Chas.H
llellstro mmer,
klen,Fred. Wetherbee
VanSic
Folger
Robert
,
Osborn
Hendrickson, Olans
Voorman, Henry
Palacbe , Gilbert
Henry, Oarl Albert
Palmer , Edwin Campbell VooSchmidt,.Alex.Walde'r
Heuer, Philipp
Webste r, Charles John
Henry
Palmer,
Rainey
William
Hewitt,
Martin
Whit.e,
Stoat
David
Parker,
Heynem an, Berman
Wilkie, Alfred John Rigby
Pearce, William
Higgins , Stephen H
Wileon, Russell Jones
Peck·, Philip
High ton, Henry Edward
Woodside, Alexander
Pedersen, Christian
Hill, Edwin Potter
Woolley, Lell Hawley
Peiser, Jacob
Hodgen , .Joseph Dupuy
, Diedrich He.inrich
Wolzen
Tudfil
in
Benjam
Price,
Hofman, Henry
Wulzen, Frederi ck George
Price, Thomas
Holladay, Samuel W
Yager, Frank
Holmes, Charles Stewar t Radston, George
York, William -226.
Julias
,
Radston
r
Gilmou
James
,
Holmes
Edgar
Reuben
d,
Raimon
Lord
Homer , James

'Io the Gran d Lod.ge of Oalifornfu.

1895.J

337

FELLo:W ORAFT :

Bryan, William Henry- 1.
ENTER ED APPREN TIOES :

Begevin,Alexand'r Morgan
Brown, William Henry

Lillie, Angustus Seabury
Love, John Lord

Nagle, Charles Grant- Ii.

WJTHD RAWN:

Hanks, Mordecai Wllson.- 1. ·
DIED:

Bornck, Marcos Derkbiem
Banker, Robert Fosdick
Friis, Charles Stenalt

Heuer, .Alexander
King, Richard

Merrifield, Frank
Vollmer, Charles Henry- 7,

CRES CENT CITY LODG E, No. 45.
Cre1ce nt Clt;v, Del Norte County _.

Stated Meetings, Afonda y next preceding Full Moon.
OFFIC ERSr

Wm Harri
Drury White Rice, Moatm,
~:~:ie~ Se;:ior ~eacon,
:hyland er Lelghten Elwell, Sen. Warlfen, Eth~Ired L::~~
er 'M u~hal eacon,
Magrud
Nelson
Elibeus
,
Warden
Junto1·
g,
ames Brookin
·
• a13 •
__ __ __
Jacob Marhotrer, Treaaure.r,
_ _ _ _ _ _ • Stewards,
Greenleaf Curtis, Secretary,

f

Hngh Maxwell, Tyler.

'

.

Paet Maater a:

Wm. Harriso n Woodbury, Elibens Nelson Magruder, Talbot Wesley Patty,
Greenleaf Cortis,
Hugh Maxwe ll,
Drury White Riee.
MASTER MASONS:

Dingle, Raimond Reuben
Lake, J 08eph Lincoln
Lind, Frank
Mayer, Gottlieb
KcVey, Joseph Hutson
.HoVey, Bamnel Hutson

Miller, Robert Willis
Nelson, Charles
Ohlson, Victor
Peacoc k, George Henry
P~veler, Peter Henry
Sartwe ll, Dugald Stewar t

Seligman, Solomon Gaasion
Tack, Nicholas Br.
Tack, Nicholas Jr.
Tryon, George Edwin
Vorlander, Ewald
Wolf, William Franci -28.

WITHD RAWN:

DIED:

Llpowitz, Maximilian--!.

Chaigneau, Victor Arietides (..A.)-1.

24

. 338

.Returns of the Subordinate Loriges

LAug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lod,ge of California.

339

MASTER MASONS :

TEXAS LODGE, No. 46.
San .Joan. San Benito County,

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in ea.ch month.
OFFICERS a

Thomas Flint, ilfaster,'
Richard Hall Flint, Senior JJeacon,
Frederick Wm. Kemp, S<Jflior Warden, George Holmes Moore, Junior JJeaaon,
James Miles, Junior Warden,
Roscoe Greene Norton, Marshal,
Andrew Abbe, 'freasurer,
Dan Willson, l St
d3
Charles Gny Cargill, Secretary,
Leon Bollier, f ewar '
Henry Beger, Tyler.

Thomas Flint,
Thomas Flint, Jr.,

Sparkes, William Henry
S'tackboose, Jas. Spaulding
Weske, Adolph
White, Joseph Newton
Williams, Henry
Williams, John-32.

WITHDRAWN:

Jorgenson, Peter Nicole.i-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:'

Tracy, Peros Spragoe-1.
DIED:

Worseley, Alfred-I.

PBst l!lasters:

Roscoe Greene Norton,
Charles Gny Cargill,

Bays, William Oscar
Hnffaker, Samu~! Mitchell
Bockley, William
Griffith, Owen William
Cameron, William llleozies Kinnear, Merit
Coker, Gould Carlton
Locher, Francis Joseph
Develey, Henry Keynser McHale, Patrick
Ellsworth, John Hinchcliff Ray, William .Martin
Evans, James

Joseph Ogden Heritage,
James Henderson Ashley.

MASTER MASONS:

Baldwin, Thomas Seavy
.Mitchell, George Francis
Bnrnett, William Fletcher .Morton, Frank
Oe.nfield, Robert William
Onderkirk, Isaac
Harmon, George Silas
Regan, Mark Joseph
Mcintyre, George Wm.
Roche, James Henry

Rnssell, George Washington
Sargent, James Petty
Slaysman, Charles Reese
Stewart, Archibald
Wood, William James-29.

DIED:

FORBEJSTOWN LODGE, No. 50.
Forbestown, Butte County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Scherrer, Loois-1.

Andrew Jackson Packard, Master,
Andrew Lilja, Senior Deacon,
William John Schultz, Senior Warden,
John .Milton Finc.b, Junior Deacon,
Edmond Stocker, Junior Warden,
Gaylord Smith W. Twogood, Mar•hal,
Phillip Snllivan, 'freasurer,
George Washington Hill, l Stewards
Alexander Ellis Anderson, Secretary,
Isaac Whitmore Ryant, f
'
Maxw_ell Gaddis Hill, Tyl.er.

MICHIGAN OITY LODGE, No. 47.

Wallace Homer Chappell, Gaylord Smith W. Twogood, Thomas Hitoor Dodson,
Maxwell Gaddis Hill.
Alexander Ellis Anderson, Andrew Jackson Hankins,
David Wash. Braddock,
Ralph Waldo Emerson,

Past Masters:

Mlchlean Blutr; Placer County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Alexander Dolt, Master,
Henry Jones, Senior JJeacon,
Gordon Robinson Cowan, Sen. Wm·den, Rubio .Moor Sparks, Junior Deaoon,
Edward Britt, Junior Warden,
George Albert Davie~, Marshal,
Winfield bcott De.vies, Treasurer,
Gilbert Florence Ray,
l 81,ewards,
Frederick Wilbor Lament, Secretary,
Frederick Chester Davidson, f
Warren Cassias Shain, Tyl.er.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Past Masters:

Benjamin Dolaney Dunnam,
Warren Caseins Shain,

Alexander Dolt,
Thornton King,

MASTER MASONS :

·Allen, John Emmet
Jioks,Wm. Napoleon B.
Collins, John
Jordan, Borrell Blodgett
Kratzer, Daniel Webster
Conwell, Henry Asbnry
Crandall, Abraham Lincoln Libson, Joseph Libero
Daley, Garret Clarence
.McMillan, John Gilmore
Garton, Lewis
Money, John
Gl!dmacher, lllelcboir
Price, Gabriel William
Borles,Smitb Hetherington Reotersbahn, Max

Winfield Scott Davies.

Willey, John Calvin-1.

Roberts, Abraham Ferguson
Scholz, John Frederick
Slater, Jam es
Slater, Nicholas Weaver
Smnlio, Sam' I Nesbit Dallas
Sparks, Elijah Brown
Thompson, Mans
Wilson, Melvin W-40.
DIED:

Plom, Nathaniel Dunba.r-1.

340

Returns of the Subordinate LodgtJJ

[Aug. 1,

1895.]

341

To the Grand Lod,ge of OalifornW.;
MASTER MASONS :

ILLINOISTOWN LODGE, No. 51.
Oottaz, Plaeer Oounty,

Stated Meetings, Friday of or nezt prccding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Amos Stevens, Senior Deacon,
Walter Ray Ouiver, Master,
Henry Lobner, Junior Deaoon,
Albert Norris, Senior Warden,
Francis Marrian Ackerman, Jr. War<1en, John Butler, Marahal,
Albel't Halliday Smith, l
Morris Lobner, 7'rellaurer,
Andrew Jackson Ewers "f StBUJards,
Walter Lyon Butler, Secretary,
'.
.Edgar Delaney Miner, Tyler,
Paet lllaaten1
George Wash'o Applegate, William Barrows Hayford, Walter Ray Colver,
William Benjamin,
Dari us Ingersoll,
Andrew Jackson Ewers.
Morris Lobner,
John Butler,

Perkins, Dorman B
Aldeo,Eugeoe Beaaharoals Finney, Henry Edward
Perkins, Herman
Gapeo,Joho Magee
Anderson, Niels
Hall, George Washington Porter, George Seward
Bauman, Jacob Henry
Reed, Albert Levi
Bronson, Howard Ouyler Harris, Henry
Hatch, Aagustas Timothy Reynolds, Jae. Wm. Bryson
Brown, ·William Bernard
()ampbell,l'11lm'too Cornick Heodersoo,Frederick Lewis Roberts, William Henry
Rosh, Benjamin Franklin
Hoyt, Julian Buell
Capell, Jamee Smith
Shorey, Sumner Angnstae
Haonewell, Freeman
Cerkel, Woll
St1\ples, Ernest Herbert
Hurlbutt, Eira Belden
Chemas, Nicholas
Stephens, William Bell
Junkeo, James Noble
Coghlan, Oscar Rapier
Stewart, Edgar L
Kelley, Kirk Etna
Cobo, Jacob
Stewart, Samuel
Leithead, James
Danielson, Johan
Tomasini, Gailliaoo
Davisson, William Sherman Maleh!, John
Votypka, John
DiDkelspiel,Heory Geo. W. Mateer, James Mitchell
Waugh, Benjamin James
Maynard, Milton Allen
Diokelspiel, Moritz
Weinberg, Marcas-711.
Downing, William (lreeo Morton, Albert Sumner
Oberti, Joseph
Edwards, James Garot

llilASrEB MASONS :

FELLOW O.RAFT :

Johnson, Goat. Adolphus
Christeoseu, John
Alcorn, Braooeford
Perkins, William Stickney
Baker; William Mandeville Dysart, John
Raymond, Percy Miles
Guptill, William Willard
Bar~ett, George Apelhy
Heory,AlexaoderCulbers'u Vore', Edmond
Cad3ew, Leland
Williamson, James Roye raft
Campbell,Archib'd Devere II Hooper, ThomaR

Lambert, John We&ley-1.
ENTERED APPBENTICES :

Bubrmeister,.Heory Franklin

Metzler, John Adam-1.

-30.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Gordon, Willi&:m -3.

Diokelepiel;'Edward
WITHDRAWN:

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PA.YMENT OF DUES:

Evans, Charles Edwio-1.

Allen, David Hawes

Oberti, Loais--8,

Bacon, William
DIED:

Wolf, W!lliam-J.

SUISUN LODGE, No. 55.
VOLCAN<? LODGE, No. .56.

Sufaun, Solano County,

Volcano, Amador Clounty,

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding l!'ull Moon.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS1

Jerome Bonaparte Richardson,Sr. Deaoon,
Wm. Wyoo Redman Reev~e, Master,
Chester Wetmore, Junior Deaoon,
Jo.h~ Stewart Brown, Benwr Warden,
Wilham Corydeo Sheldoo,TuniorWarden, William GuMtavus Davisaoo, Marshal,
James Bennett Robinson l
Edgar Ernest Long, 7'reaaurer,
James Robinson Lamont' StBUJardll,
Ferdinand William Gabriel, Beoretary,
William Kimball Hoyt,
Abraham Farr Hitchcock, Chaplain,

r
iJ,,1er.

Paat Jllaatera 1

Abner Elias Charles
Moses Diokelsplel,
Sampson Smith,
Albert Alexander Dlckie
Allen Charles Miller, .
Eben Dorman Perkins,
'
William Gustavus Davisson, Meyer Diokelspiel,
John Booa~arte Lemon,
Abraham Farr Hitchcock, George Anthony Gillespie.
Stephen Krrby Norse,
Jerome Bonap. Bichardsoo,

OFFmERS1

Jacob Griesbach, Senior Deacon,
Warren Quincy Mason, Maater,
Rueben Frederick Frye, Senior Warden, Samuel Hughes, Juni<W Deacon,
Elbridge William Huey, Marshal,
Lionel Eugene Jones, Junior Warden,
Peter Alonzo Olate, '.lrea.surer,
Malc~m Campbell McKinnon, l Stewardll,
Deome Kelley,
Benjamin Roes, Secretary,
- - - - - - , Tyler.

r

Paa& Mastera 1

Elbridge William Hoey,

Warren Quincy Mason,

Peter Alonzo Clute.

.MASTER MASONS :

Allen, John Christian
Oase, John Nelson
Dillian, William David

Oerseo, M.ax
Glenn, William Jay
Goodall, Joseph

Kesseler, Aloysiaa
Reale, Antone Lonie
Schmied, Joho-19.

342

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodges

[Aug. I,

SANTA ROSA LODGE, No. 57.
Santa Roaa, Sono1na County.

Stated Mutfogs, last Thursday in each mo11th.
OFFICERS•

John McGill Laughlin, Ma11ter,
Nelson Dennis, Senior JJeaoun,
Charles Bernard Kobes, /:Jeni.or Warden, Reuben Morey Swain, Junior De1UJon,
Willie Burton Simpson, Junio1· Warden, Allen Bosley Lemmon, Mar11hal, .
Hiram Lewis Tripp,. 7Teasurer,
Henry Ohristian Oline, l Steward.ti,
Joel Dwight Barnett, Secretary,
George S. K. McCnllnm, f
Winslow Sim~n Hosmer, '.lYler.
l"a&t lllaeter..

Joseph Henry Gl'iggs ,
Angnstne Leander Fisher,
Edward Neblett,
Allison Burr Ware,
Aleii:. Campbell McMeane,
Samuel Irwin Allen,
Hiram J.ewie Tripp,

Henry J, Ross,
Mark Body,
Alexander Dong's Laughlin, Jam es Oalifornla Wright,
Albert G. Burnett,
John Ripley Wright,
George_Hall,
Henry Orawford Crowder,
Oharles Martin Bumbangh, Thoe.Bart Benton Anderson,
William Rreeman Wines, Nelson Reed Shaw,
Allen Bosley Lemmon,
James Clark Mailer.
MASTER MASONS:

Arnold, Amaea W.
Baker, Walter Hussey
Benepe, Leander Warfield
Berka, Frank
Bertolani, Pietro
Blair, Thomas Newton
Boyce, John Franklin
Brandt, Louis.
Branghler, Martin
Bl'Own, Alexander
Brown, George Dix
Brown, George Seymour
Brown, John
Brown, Willia!D Elias
Bryant, Allen
Bumpus, Oyrns Hamblin
Burger, Calvin Raiden
Burris, Luther William
Bu tin, Jam es Madison
Oaldwell;Oharles Young
Oarither~, David Noble
Oarlyon, Thomas
Oarter, Daniel Putnam
Oolgan , Edward Power
Oooper, Eugene Marcus
Cornne, Frank Benton
Orawford, Richard Fruit

Davis, Edward Walker
Rahman, Henry Gnetav
De Lappe, Russell
Hall, Joseph Edward
Dignan, Michael Henry
Harris, Ephraim Drake
~oda, Battista movanni
Harris, Jacob
Doggett, William Jordan
Henry, Jamee
Dohn, George Ernest
Ricks, James Oliver
Doran, William James
Hlgbley, William
Doran, William Marion
Rodie, Alexander Ladd
Dunbar, John
Bockin, William
Duncan, Jamee Parker
Hodgson, William Henry
Dunwoody, Alexander
Hopping, Samuel
F11.hrlon, George Wallace Howell, Orin
Farmer, Oharles Rollin
Hnghee, John
Farmer, Chris. Columbus Hnrletone, Richard Brain
Fitts, J obn Perry
Ink, Walter Payne
Fountain, Orlando
Jesse, James William
Frehe, Herman Frederick Johnson, Andrew
Fulkerson, Theodoras
J ulliard, CharleR Frederick
Fulton, Somers Barnhill
Julliard, Louis William
Gilman, Lewell Jesse
Korbel , Anton Francis
Glenn, Robert
Label, Himan
Glynn, Francis J. Bonap'te Lewis, George Washington
Good, Walter Olift'ord
Loomis, Frank Clemens
Goodman, LAopold Solom'n McCorkle, Milos King
Green, Paul Franklin ·
McKinlay, Duncan E.
Griggs, William Benjamin Mills, Emory Temple
Guerne, George Ernie!
Mille, ~rank Rowe.rd

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of California.

Hobley, Oyrns Lyman
Moke, Henry Herbert
Morrison, Osce.r
Jlordook, Louis Anthony
Nash, William Hewston
Near, Christopher David
Nelson, William Clark
Nielsen, Carl Heinrich
Noble, John E
Oates, James Wyatt
Overton, Albert Perry
Overton, Johu Pi\tten
Page, Charles Albert
Perry, Charles Asaph
Peterson, Andrew
Peterson, Re.ford Wesley
Phelps, Obarles Lorraine
Phillips, Edward James
Phillips, Walter
Piggott, Jam es Kenneth

343

Pool, William Henry
Thompson, James Monroe
Reeve, Henry Francis
Thompson, Rob't Augustine
Reindollar, Theo.Buffington Thompson, Thomae Larkin
Ridley, George Isaac
Thorsen, Jesse Fremont
Rot1e,Jamee Edward BrownTripp, Philander Franklin
Roes, John
Tupper, George Anderson
Seawell, Emmet
Underhill, William Henry
Seegelken, George Wilhelm Vanderhoof,Martin Van Bn'n
Shaw, William
Walker, Lucius Whitfield
Shearer, Fr'k Eichelberger Warboys, John Walter
Shelmerdine, Ed. Kirk'ld,Jr. Wescoatt, Nelson
Sluclair, Henry George
White, John McOnllongh
Smith, John Frederick
Wiley, James Nichol
Speegle, Monroe Madison Williams, James Monroe
Spencer, Byron M
Wolfe, George
Steadman, Welcome Judson Woolley, WUliam Oecil
Ste war$, John Hndson
Wright, Angnetns Sylvanns
Stone Nathan Jonas
Yoho, Samuel B
Taylo;, Charles Dewitt
Young, Frank William i
Taylor, John Shackelford Yonng, William Harvey
-171.
0

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

Hoskins, Thomae Dixon-1.
RESTORED:

Millington, James B-2.

Blair, Thomas Newton

WITHDRAWN:

Bnckland, Leooard Harrison Petray, Henry Calvin
Miiiington, James B

Pitbl&do, Oharles Brnce-4.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bailhache, John Nicholas McMinn , John
Davis, John Bell
McMinn, John, Jr.
Mann, James Monroe
McQnillan, William John
Matthews, Albert Fletcher Pumphrey, Absalom
Matthews, James Alfred
Ricksecker, Lucine Edgar

Sutherland, George Howe
Tuttle, George Clarence
Ward, Thomas Benjamin
Weecoatt, Jonas -1'.

DIED:

<llaypool, Jeremiah

Johneon, George Ashbnry

Whittier, John Franklin-3.

UNION LODGE, No. 58.
Saeram.ento. Sacramento County..

Stated Muti.11911, fir11t Wednuday in each month.
OFFICERS•

Robert Alexander, Senior Deacon,
Lonie Gambach, Mallter,
Charles Fical, Junior 1Jeaoon,
Thomae Benton Reid, Senior Warden,
Albert Hart, Marshal;
Harry Ingham, Junior Warden,
.A.ngnst Meister, '.lreaaurer,
John Frederick_ Yossi,} StBUJard.tl,
Frank M0Corm1ck,
John McArthur, Secretary,
Joel Osgood Wilder, '.!Yllr.

344

Returns of the SulxYrdinate Lodges

(Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornia.

1895.]

Paet lllaatera •

Richard Dale,
Charles Mortimer Coglan,
John William Rock,
John McArthur,
Isaac Baldwin Oooledge,
Albert Hart,
Alfred Augos\ue Redington, Jamee B.oskine Moore,
Samnel C. Denson, P. (}.M., Alexander J oho Gardiner,
John Anetin Canningham, Cornellns Kellog.11:,

345

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

William Hedges Baldwin,
George Amoe White,
Samuel Simmons.
John Samnel Cook,
Joseph Holl.

MASTER MASONS :

Abbott, AngnRtne
Haas, Nelson Willooghby Phillips, Lonls
Abrams, David
Hack, Joline Frederick
Rego, Edward Bntherland
Aiken, Charles Cyrus
Heitman, John B.enry
Richardson, Parson
Allen, John Francie
B.enrich, Karl
Roberie, Lewis Clark
Barnes, John Alexander
Hickey, William Edward Rothfeld, Sigmund
Baoghman, Noble Henry Holdsworth, Jesse Bennett Scott, Peter Franklin
Baxter, Morrie Adelbert
Hopkins, Aleen Wright
Scott, William
Bell, John
Howe, Leland
Shaw, Ira Clark
Blanth, Theobald
B.untingion, Thoe. Water'n Sheldon, Wm. Chauncey
Bliss, Sidney
Inwalle, John Joseph
Smith, Benjamin
Braun, August
Jay, Robert
Smith, Wilbur Field
Buchanan, John
Kay, Edgar John
Smith, William Peon
Bneh, George Thompson Kelsey, John Morrie
·steft'~ns, Joseph
Byers, Robert Hopkins
Knauer, Frederick Charles Stephenson,Jamee Mitchell
Oarey, John Thomas
Lavenson, Samuel
Stevens, Fred Andrew
Cathcart,BenjaminFranklin Lavlson, Jacob
Steveuson,Benry Llewellyn
Olark, Jerome Franklin
Laws, Robert James
Stoddard, George Allen
Clement, Louie Metzler
Lawson, Walter Brokaw
Bntlilf, Levi Beardslie
Coles, ·. rhoru
Leitch, George Whitfield Swartz, Herman
Oowan, William Henderson Lemay, Victor
Swift, Charles Judson
Ooyne, William
Lightner, Bonas
Taylor, Edward Fyffe
Cortie, George Perry
Little, Christopher
Taylor, Vernon Frank
Decker,Iiorace Washington Mallarcj , George Hayden Terry, Wallace Irvin
Dennery, Alphonse
Mayer, William
Thornton, Richard Parker
Douglas, Philip
McCormack, Charles
Uren, Stephen
Douglas, William Wallace McCreary, Robert Clark
Van Fleet, Wllliam Carey
F.ddy, William
McCulloch, J·amee
Van Voorhies, Albert Alex.
Edwards, Arthur Walter
McKay, Daniel
Waite, George Smith
Elchrodt, Max
McKeever, Francis May
Welch, Benjamin
Ellsworth, Willi11m Monn Meivin," Eogene Walker
Welch, George Gregg
Enright, Thomas Lincoln Mills, Jamee Edgar
West, Daniel
Fillmore, Jerome Adolphus Milan, Henry
Wilkinson, Joseph Roger
Fitch, William Cyrus
Morrison, James Mathew Wilson, Benno
Flint, Addison Angostoe
Morsehead, William
Wilson, J esse Warren
Foot, William John
Murray, Nelson Henry
Willi, William George
Forbes, Robert
Nathan, Aaron
Wingate, Richard Pike
Foster, James Stuart
Newman, George
Witham, Gilbert Tapley
Freeman, William Brooks Newman, Peter
Woodboro, James
Garlick, Aaron
O'Brien, Michael
Wright, J ohn Bascom
Gerson, Samuel
O'Neill, Edward John
Wright, Ralph
Graham, Lonie Edgar
Parsons, Plummer Hillman Yoerk, Charles Aognetos
Gray, George Addison
Peck, Nelson Stanley
Younger, Andrew- 16'.
Gregg, George
Peterson, William Freder'k

Reidel, Frank-2.

Noack, Charles John
WITHDRAWN:

Gilbert, Ethan Alberl-3.

Olnness, William Robert

Askwith, Charles Albert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Sindelar, Joseph-5.

Hawkins, William
Herrington, Harry :Mallaby

Bridell, Robert Joseph
Hardy, Thomae

•

DIED:

Zenovioh, Steven Severlus-4.

Tyrrell, George Gerald

Barrie, David
Klenk, Reinhold

GRAVEL RANGE LODGE, No. 59.
CamptonTWe, Yuba County.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Wiiiiam Boll Meek, MaBter,
John Rofos Kennady, Senior Deacon,
Jeremiah Watte, Senior Warden,
John Robert Meek, Junior Deac0tt,
Peter Mondada, Junior Warden,
Thomas Daniel Locey, Marshal,
Orin George Mayo, Treaaurer,
Eatheo Nathan Polley,
l Bteuiarda,
Edward Finnegan Cunningham, Secretary, Eugene Benharnaie Oorey, r
Tho~as Phillips, Ohaplain,
Thonias Williams, Tyler.
Past Ma•tera1

Edward Finnegan Connlngham.

Wflliam Boll :Meek.
Jeremiah Watts,

Jamee Nelson,

Anderson, Alfred
Anderson, Orlando
Andrews, John
Arnold, Wille.rd Franklin
Arnott, Jamee
Barbero, Joseph Enos
Bartsch, Christian

Byrd, Thomae J elferson
Crawford, William
Hosking, George
Hosking, Richard
Kennedy, J oho H enry
Lewie, Francis
McLellan, Charles

MASTER MABON!ii :

Niokelson, Ishmael Hend'n
Pel.ton, Lester Allen
Peterson, J ohaones
Smith, Charles
Smith, lfenry
Thomae,Hngh Mathew-33.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Borris, J oeeph
C&88erly, William Wickman

Lavarinl, Oarlo

Qnerrolo, Pedro4.

DIED:

Meek, William Alexander

25

O'He.rra, Charles-2.

346

RetuT'Tl8 of the SubordinaJ,e LodgeJJ

[Aug. 1,

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

347

Paat Maaten1

PLUMAS LODGE, No. 60.
Q.utncy, Plumas County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next mcceeding F'ull Moon.
OFFICERS1

George Wilson, Senior Deaaon,
Joseph McOhesney, Master,
James Hardin Larison, Juni;r Deacon,
Edward Garner, Senior Warden,
Joshna HntchingsVarlel, Junior Warden, - - - - , Marlhal,
John Daniel Goodwin, l Steward.I
James Henry Whitlock, '.lTeasurer,
'
f
Richard Jacks,
Arthnr Walter Keddie, Secretary,
Samnel Taylor, 1yler.
John Daniel Goodwin,
Arthnr Walter Keddie,
James Henry Whitlock, ·

P aat Mastera•
Joseph MoOliesney,
William Howard Leek,
William Nettles Goodwin, Joshna Hntchlngs Variel.
lllABTER MASONS:

Brown, Sarcbal Oooper
Boll, Daniel Miller
Byers, William Thomas
Eisner, David
Gentry, James Ohristy
Inch, Thomas Benjamin
Keep, Albert

Reed, David 0
Manrer, Henry Rndolpli
Robinso11, Andrew
McGee, John Baarham
Somner, Francis George
McLennan, Kenneth
Mechling, Jacob Jellerson Strite, George
Miller, Christian Frederick Tippett, Joseph
Wilson, John Everette-32.
Neal, Thomas
Phelps, J oho Glover

Donning, Leigh Hicks

Stiles, George Washington

FELWW ORAFTS:

Thomll8, J oho M-3.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Thompson, Oharlee Ruesell-1.

LIVE OAK LODGE, No. 61.
Oakland. Alameda Count7,

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS1

James Wesley Nelson, Sen:ior Deaoon,
John Allison Beckwith, Master,
Jame~ Shakespeare, Junfor Deacon,
Edward Henry Hart, &nior Warden,
Walter Griswold Manne!, Jun. Warden, Frank Borroughs Ogden, Marahal,
Adolph Ed;ard Henry Cramer, '.lTeaa., Edward Melville Wil~infton, j Stewarda,
1
Norman Adolph Parr18h,
Junia Josiah Warner, Secreta11J,
Henry Osgood Hant, OrganUt,
John Trotter, Ohaplain,
Orville Knighten Stampley, Tyler.

Amasa Wright Bishop,
Francis Kittridge Shattuck, John Ragland Olaecook,
Edward Oonetant Robinson, Frank Howard Brooke,
Benjamin Akerly,
William Richy Hatfield,
Henry Philip Dal~n,
Franklin Warner,
Nelson Oarr,
Marcus Darine Hyde,
James Ogden Miner,
Juline Samnels,
Harry Charles Bush,
Jamee Lentell,
John Robert Dewar,
Frank Norrie Dalton,
Jamee Oarter Kyte,
Reynolds Landon':
Jamee Ohrietopher Martin, Junia Josiah Warner,
Lonie Oormlck Kerr.
Charles Edward Haven,
Jamee Todd Gardiner,
Noble Hamil~n,
John Oarlton Marsh,
MASTEB MASONS :

Akerly, James Clark Smith Eastman, Moses Hayden Hongh, George Walles
Humphrey, Thoe. Marshall
Arper, George Washington Eaton, Henry Jone@
Hyde, Clarence
.Atkinson, Thomas Albion Echlin, Charles Clare
. Irwin, John Clarke
Eby, John Donglas
Avery, Mark Herbert
Joyoe, Aastin Ambrose
Edoft', James P
Baab, Charles
Keesing, Henry Bernard
Ely, Ralph Asahel
Baker, Peter
Kelle11 Charles Marsh
Eason, James Henry
Baldwin, Robert Oliver
Kendall, Frank Irving
Evers, John H.enry
Bates, Charles David
Baomgartner,Andrew Fred Farrington, Elvin Donn _ Kerr, Archie Fullerton
Flsher, Charles Morrison Knight, Frederick Wales
Bell, Samuel Bookstaver
Bennett, Robert Howard Fisher, Philip Melanchton Lamonrenx, Philias Henry
Lanyon, Joseph Henry
Blair, George Washington Fisher, Robert Rollin
Lawrence,Henry Hath'y,Jr.
Fletcher, Francis Alden
Blood, William Frank
Fnrniss, Herbert Olmstead Leber, Albert Lewis
Bowen, Thomae William
Lebrecht, William
Broad, Charles Aognstns Gardiner, William
Lindsay, Thomae
Gaskill, Varney William
Brown, Orson Dana
Lord, Leslie Howard
Gelder, David
Broenn, Adolphus
Lnelllng, Oregun O
Gelder, John
Bullock, Richard Steele
Matthews, Francis Ima
Boteao, Samuel Hawkins Glenn, Alexander Glenn
Man, Charles Frederick
Glenn, John Qninn
Capwell, Harris Cebert
Manzy, Byron
Gleason, George
Oarleton, George Henry
Goodfellow, George Emery McCarron, David
Caaaidy, Richard
MoCarter, John
Goodman, George
Champion, Albert 0
McKenzie, William
Grant, George
Cllappellet, Felix
McMullen, David Alexander
Ohesnut, John Angustns,Jr. Gray, Martin Lother
Gross, Wilhelm Gnstave O. McMnllen, John Oornelioe
Obristy, Oharles
McPherson, Alex. Lewis
Grtten, John 0
Olark, Marion
Grttnebanm, Wm. Bernard McPike, Henry Clay
Clayton, William Bart
Haelke, Hellwig Leopold Metcalf, Victor Howard
Colvin, Charles Louis
Hall, Edward Ma88er, Jr. Momyer, Henry Eastman
Cook, William Ooleman
Morris, Benjamin Samuel
Hall, Joseph Lee
Craft, Richard Oorson
Morris, William
Craig, Homer Alexander Hall, Leon Engene
Hardwick,Edw'd Newcomb Morrison, Joh.n
Orane, Oarlton Cyros
Harlow, William Sturtevant Moller, Herman Emanuel
Cron, William, Jr.
Naismith, George Semple
Oroeman, Cortland David Harmon, Dana
Newsom, Joseph Oather
Haven, Clarence
Onlver, William Lee
Nordhaosen,Chas. Christian
Hayes, Daniel David
Dalton, Henry Norris
Hewitt, Robert Ethelbert Nordhansen, Ernest Albert
Dargie, William Edward
Northey, Vernal Sidney
Holland, Arthur Percy
Draper, Thomas B
Otto, Frederick (}
Hooe, Headley Smith
DnBois, Elijah
Outram, David John
Hoppen, Alfred
l>nBois, Percy Hamilton

348

&turns of the Svl>ordinate Lodge,s

(Aug. 1,

Owen, Wm. Henry Searles Schlarbaum, John Ohr'n B. Thompson, Frank Robert
Oyler, Robert
Schlesinger, Adolph Obas. Thomson, Arthur Delliba
Parrish, William Henry
Schmidt, J oho Oarl
Tillson, Fred Minot
Pattereon,Alb'tLew.Crand'I Scholze, :Max Charles
Tozer, Charles Francis
Pierce, Charles Dexter
Scholler, Antonio
Trenschel, August Freder'k
Price, Wallace Oovert
Beaton, Horace Scott
Troy, Joho Henry
Rabe, Joho
Simpson, Joseph Cairo
Tarner, Joshua Nichole
Rasmosseo Hans
Blemin, Charles, Jr.
Umphred, Frank Morris
Reiohllog, \.ools Frank
SmHie, Robert ·
Umphred, Joseph Wilson
Reinhardt, Joseph
Smith, Benjamin John
Veitch, William Thomas
Relostadler, J!'rancois
Smoot, David Low
Westover, Clinton
Revalk, Richmond Emil
Snyder, Andrew Jackson Wheeler, Roscoe, Jr.
Richards, J oho Callahan
Bpiare, Frank William
Williams, Nicholas
Roff, Harry Loren
Bteffanoni, Achilles
Wilson, James
Rogers, Josiah Barnes
Stimpson, Geo. Waehlogton Wines, Charles.Buckley
Rosenberg, Morris
Botherlaod, Edwin
Wines, Charles Latham
RoBBell, Edward Knight
Swain, Clinton Terry
Woods, William Fowler
Samson, Martin Meyer
Sweeney, George Wade
Woolsey, Elliott Hartman
Samuels, Isaac Julius
Taylor, Charles Benjamin Wondsch, Joseph
Schalfer, Lonie (1)
Taylor, Felton
Zabel, Carl J111ios-223.
Bchalfer, Lonie (2)
Taylor, James
FELLOW CRAFTS :

, . Knowles, William Andrew

Wingate, Isaac Cannon-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Book, Thomas
Foote, William Winters
Hopkin, Albert

Schmidt, John
Wharf, William Greenough
Bhellaberger, Fred Eagene Yoong, Loui~.
Snow, Rowland Warner
RESTORED:

Crosman, Cortland David

GroBB, Wilhelm Gustave 0.

Kyte,' Jamee Carter---8.

WITHDRAWN:

Barnard, Ezra-1.
DIED:

Andros, Washburne Royal Tilley, Gabriel Henderson Yarndley,Rioh'dThos.(B..l.)
Mayer, Leopold
Hine, William Henry (& A. )
-6.

GEORGE WASHINGTO N LODGE, No. 62.

1895.]

J!'aat Maatera t ·

OFFICERSt

Daniel T Bartlett, Ma1t11r,
Roscoe Follansbee, Senior Deaoon,
Norton Woodbridge Corrie, Sen. Warden, John Ernst, Jun{or Deacon,
Beary Douglass, Junior Warden,
Alexander Gamble Keith, Marshal,
Rafus King Love, Tre1UUr11r,
Jerome Loney,
J St
di
James Mackey, Secretary,
Christ. Wm. Rago Bolinsky, f etoar '
Edgar Thomas Palmer, TyUlr.

James :Mackey.

Daniel T Bartlett,
Roscoe Follansbee,

Isaac Wa~d Smith,

Comfort, John Van Colt
KJattenholf, Diedrich
Orcutt, Alpheus Sherman

Randall, Rhodes Bork
Smith, William Anderson

MASTER MASONS :

Taylor, Albert
Walsh, Wllllam-19.

NATOMA LODGE. No. 64.
Fobom, Sacramento Connt:y.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Cbristht.n Ludwig Ecklon, MQJlleT,
Charles Henry Ecklon, Senior Deacon,
George Imhoff', Senior Warden,
Jacob Hyman, Junwr DeaJJon,
- - - - - - , Junior Warden,
Peter Yager, Marlhal,
Edward Rogers Levy, Treasurer,
Jacob Miller, Steward•,
James Henry Sturges, Secretary,
Robert Keefe,
Edwin Augustus Jones, 7}/!11r.

i

Paat Maaterat

Edward Christy,
Christian Ludwig Ecklon,
James Henry Burnham,
Simon Stamper,

Peter Yager,
Calvin William Duden,
William Woodward.

Philip Charles Cohn,
Charles Henry Ecklon,
Charles' Aull,
MASTER MASONS:

Eoklon. Lore nz-Gottfried Mereditb, James Sebastian
Barton, Hiram Emmett
Barrett, Josiah Bussell
Edwards, Charles Ward
Mette, Henry
Bates, Benjamin Franklin Fie!, Isaa.c
Miller, Emil
.
Broder Jacob
Hollingsworth, Lewis Wash. Mills, Robert Trimble
Brown:By. New Hampshire House, John Lorn
Porter, William Thomas
Burnham, Frederick Parker Joerger, Joseph
Quinn, John
Cohn, Simon
Kyborz, Samuel
Scott, John Brow.a.
ton
Comfort George :Middleton Lorain, John
Wilson, Egbert Livmgs
Dodson.' Marcos Hulen
McFarland, Thad. Joseph Wubbena, Nicholas Gerrett

_,,.

Chlneae Camp, Tnolnmne Connt:y.

St~ted Meetings, Saturday of or nu:t ll'UC~eding Full Moon.

349

'Io the (}rand Lodge of Oalifornia.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

FELLOW ORA.FT :

Stoot, James-I.

Wiss, Paol-1.
DIED:

Morris, Robert-1.

350

Returns of the SUbordinate Lodg(!,/J

(Aug. 1,

1895.]

To the Yrand Lodge of California.

351

Paat lllaatera •

AMADOR LODGE, No. 65.

MASTER MASONS :

Jaeluon, Amador Coa.nt:y.

Statd Mtetings, Tuaday of or ne,:;i;t prewJjng Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

James Harris, Maller,
' Robert John Adams, Senior IJeaaon,
Nathan Pierson Wllliams, Sen. Warden, James Aagastlne Laaghton, Jun. IJeacon,
Philip Roberls, Junior Warden,
Dlovol Benedetto Spagnoli, Marshal,
John Henry Langhorst, 7reawrer,
William Milton Penry, l BUiwariU,
Robert Altken, 8eoretary,
John Dow Oampbell, f
Henry Osborn~, Ohapla(n,
John Giusto, Tyler.
Paat Maaterai

Robert Aitken,
John Oald,
Robert John Adams,
Wallace Kay,
Myron Shaw Matson,
Walter Edwin Kent.
Diovol Benedetto Spagnoli, Sylvester Giovanni Spagnoli,
MASTER MASONS:

Hayes, John
Bagnesohi, Lnigf
Heming, David
Bellµominl, Giovanni
Hicks, Thomas
Blanchett!, Bartolomeo
Hntohfns, John Wesley
Bnnney, William
Cheranlch, Elias Nicholas Levy, Joseph Morris
Lindley, Cortis Holbrook
Cooledge, Walter Scott
Davis, Herbert Lawrenoe Mace, Fayette
Detert, William Ferdinand Maroncci, Paolo
Martell, Franois
Eddy, Edward
Farnsworth, Eldr'ge Calvin Mattfy, David
Miohelotti, Carlo
Fallen, John
Newme.n, George
He.rvey, William Je.mes

Newman, Leopold
Parker, Frederick Wardner
Peter, William Dewitt
Radovich, Nioholas
Reichling, Peter
Rogne, Raphael
Samaels, Joseph
Sanders, Willle.m Boon
Tibbits, James Ballar
Tacker, William
Tarner, Clarence Helmer
-6~.

Meany, Nathan Holbridge
Goodwin, Jamee Willie
Pilond, Edward
H11onley, William Franz
Hooper, William Norman Preeoott, LeRoy
Raymond, Daniel Hobart
Jenkins, Thomas Henry
Rowlands, Trevor T
JoQes,John Oscar
St. Pierre, John
Kenn, Alexander
Labonte, Francis Xavier Thomas, Benjamin
Thompson, David Edward
Malone, Rowland Cartin
Voge, Henry
Martin, George 0
West, John ThorensiDS-44.
McGregor, James
Mcintosh, Oharles Hagh

Aird, Alexander Fisher
.Appel, Harrison
Bayles, Watson
Broeseanx, Narcis
Barleigh, Frank L
Cole, William Lake
Crafts, Samnel Stoors
Deisem, Charles S
Edmonds, Thomas
Ellis, Thomas
Erskine, William

WITHDRAWN:

Meiss, Lonis-2.

' SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Minear, J oho Ingersoll

Schnbener, Solomon-2.

Ellery, Henry, Jr.-2.

.Akers, Charles Duval
SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

DIED:

DiersteiD, William-1.

Hanley, William .A-L

MORNING STAR LODGE, No. 68.
Stockton, San Joaquin County,

Stated Meetinga, second Thu.radag in each month.

ENTERED APPRENTICES: :

Giannini, Gniseppe Maria

Charles Adrian Roa118An.

Leonard Irvine,

George Washington Perkins,

OFFICERS 1

Edgar McDowell Bransford, Ben. IJeaDOn,
Edward Elbridge Hood, Master,
James Halstead Lindely, Senior Warden, Frederick Wm. Wollner, Junior .Deacon,
Vernon Perry Pritchard, Marshal,
Darrell Oliver Oaetle, Junior Warden,
l Btetoarda,
Frederick Maoondray West, 7reaBt.1rer, Wesley Cram,
Richard Robert Thornton, f
George Alex. McKenzie, Seoretary,
Charles Edward Howe, 1},ller.
Past lllaateni

FOREST LODGE, No. 66.
Allearhan:y, Sierra County.

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or ne:r:t preceding .Ful,l Moon.
OFFICERS•

James Oaniel Beilly, Beni.or Deacon,
Oharles Adrian Roussan, Master,
Horace H Brown, Junior Deacota,
John W McNalty, Senior Warden,
Bernard Hockelberg, Junior Warden, William Allen Wayland, ,llar11hal,
William Walle.ce Cooper
Emannel Aagnstns Melly, 7reasurer,
George Washington Perkins, Setrretary, Henry William Stilck, ' SteU1ard3,
Broder Haas, 1},ller.

I

George Angnetas Shartle!!',
Beary Coffin Shaw,
Beary Samner Sargent,
Frederick Macondray West,
Edward Richards Hedges,

George Alex. McKenzie,
Doran Lacina Campbell,
William Brace Harrison,
John Yardley,
Henry Ephriam Robbins,

Vernon Perry Pritchard,
Orrin Staples Henderson,
Henry Calcatt Keyes,
Frank Sanborn Hatch,
Aaron SchloBB.

MASTER MASONS:

Adams, Silas Plympton
Aabry, Alvin Emaneaa
Bachman, Oarl Angnet
Baggs, Harry Nichole
Bainbridge, Jae. Absalom

Barber, Frank Wilton
Barber, Joseph Martin
Barkfs, Henry Brace
Baaer, Herman .
Beasley, Charles

Beede, Wm. Morris Stewart
Bergman, Fre.noie Gas. A. H.
BeyBBer, Loois
BleBBlng, Jacob
Bonney, John .Allen

352

Returns of the SUbordinate L<><lges

[Aug. 1,

Brandt, Charles HenryWm. Harkness, Georg
e Sumner Nicol , Frank David
Brooke, Ale:xander William Harrison, N orval
Noble, Arlhur Morgan
Brown, Philip Thomas
Hart, Charles b
Noble, Edwin Banke
Buckley, William Duncan Hawt horne , John
Bradford Oranges, Geremia
Buell, Park Arbington
Henderson,Abr'm Jamiee'n Orvis, Charles
Bruce
Bomb, Peter August.
Henderson, Milton Pierc e Orr, Nelson Mille
Buttrick, George Howe
Hickman, Edward
Perkins, Charles Edwin
Campbell, Jos. Claybaugh Hickox, Flavil
Gaylord
Rice, Obarles Eddy
Carson, Edward Consider Hudson, Abijah
Thurston Roberta, Edward
Castle, Christop'r Champlin Bull, Octavius
Haymond Rolerson, Benj. Franklin
Catts, George Elber t
Jocke rs, David
RoBB, Ichabod Olmstead
Oavin, Jamee
Jory, John
Rn88ell, Richard William
Oonfer, Solomon Lytle
Kay, Joseph
Sampson, Charles Selestina
Conklin, Jesse
Kerr, Benjamin Eadie
Shelton, Frede rick
Crose, Samuel Nelson
Kidd, Jamee Edward
Smith, William Jamee
Ounniugham, Thomae
Klench, John Peter
Southrey, John Nicholas
Daly, John
Lander, Jamee Thomae
Swain, Oorneline
Detz, George Junio r
Lane, Frank Ellis
Swain, Josep h Henry
l>unlap, Frank Evere tt
Lang, Lewis Hawkins
Swen nerto n,Jam es Guilford
EarHom, John William
Langridge,Geo.Washington Thompson, John
William
Elliott, J,yman Weston
Leitch, Archibald
Tripp, William Oeial
Ellie, John
Link, Sylvester
Tschierscky, E. M. Louie
Fanning, Howa rd Malcomb Lyon, Lemuel
Elisha
Turner, Frederick Henry
Fitzgerald , William Wesley Mayes, Thom
ae Berry
Turne r, George Clinton
Fletch er, Willard Franklin McKinnon, Angus
Waterman, Solomon
Fyfe, Josep h
MoPh erson ,Joeep hKen non Welsh, Jamee
Miller
Gersbaoher, Joshua Barre Michaels, Benja
min Keefe Wilhoit, Roley Earley
Goyette, Joseph
Milco, Nicola
Woolsey, William
Grunsky, Eugene Moriz
Morris, Oziae Manley
WnUf, Albert Lyons
Haines, Isaac Stoutenberg Myrick, John
Edward
Wyatt, Enos- 128.
FELLO W ORA.ll'T:

Nye, William Doug lass-1 .
ENTE RED APPB ENTIO ES :

Austin, Frank Ernest
Bell, Frank Preston

Curran, Thomae
Grose , John Emil

Hohenshell, Oyrus Markle
Nicewonger, Levi Bull- 6.

REST ORED :

Hickman, Ed ward -1.
WITHDBA.WN:

Lewthwaite, John

Snell, George Heln man- 2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PA.YMENT

Rogers, William Dice

OF DUES :

Treanor, Jamee McWade
DIED :

Dorrance, Henr y Tully -I.

White, Oharles Broo ke-S.

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1895.]

353

ENT ERP RIS E LOD GE, No. 70. ·
Yuba City, Sut.t er Coun ty,

Stated Meeting•, Saturday of or nut yrece
ding

Full Moon.

OFFI CER 81

Alonzo Graftls, Master,
. Caleb Russell Wilcoxon, Senio r Deacon,
Leonard Arthnr Walton, Senior WardlQ,
Jame s Abraham Littlejohn, Jun. Deaoon,
Louis Hedley Woodworth, Jun. Warden,
Robert Cornelius Kells, Marshal.,
Hiram A.aron Walton, 7\'easurer-,
Erich Schmidt,
} Stewards,
William Henry Oampbell, Secretary,
William Rennie Carpenter,
Howard Clifton Clark, Ohaplain,
Edgar Alfonso Bevans, Tiller .
Past Mast era 1

Oaleb Elisha Wilcoxon,
William Parkh urst Smith,
Jesse Harrison Craddock, Miles Edward Sartborn,
Richard Bayne,
Oliver Perry Burge tt,
Samuel Hawe s Roes,
Oharles Edward McQuaid,
Geo. Washington Carpe nter,
MA.STER MASONS:

William Henry Campbell,
Arthur Hatha way Hewi tt,
Clayton Elswo rth Williams,
Richard Barne tt.

Beet, Henry
Heiken, Henry Bantae
Rowe , Pleas ant William
Brane tstt, John Nelson
Herrold, Eben ezer Wilson Sammis, Willia
m Eugene
Bruce , John Jaspe r
Holl, Theo. Benson
Saye, George Marion
Chadwick, Larkin Hopkins Jacks , John
Schellenger, Edward Tift
Clements, William A.ndrew Johnston, Benj.
Franklin Schel leuge r,Hec torCh arlee
Clyma , Thomas Sanford
Kersey, Thomae Saverree Schne88ler, Henry
Herman
Ooatee, William Alexander Kimball, Georg
e Herbert. Schuler, Conrad
Colfey, Alexander Brainard Kirtley, Napo
leon Bonap'te Soder land, Johannes
Connell, Michael
Lamme, John Hamilton
Soderland, Noack
Oooper, Frede rick
Latbr ope, Geo. Washington Starr, Edward
Butler
Orees, Jacob Daniel
Littlejohn, Jamee
Stevenson, Benj., Franklin
Dahling, Fr'k Henry Frank :McGrath, Harry
Hill
Suggett, Luke Timothy
Deaner, Samuel Christian Mahon, Kirby
Smith
Summey, Leonidas
DeWitt, William Golder
Matteson, Charles
Walton , BenJii.min Franklin
Duncan, John Lewie
McCready , Edward John Walton, Fred
Day
Featherly, Edward Waeh'n McVey, Thom
as Fletch er Walton, George ,
Ferguson, Thomae Henry Miller; Hezek
ia Monroe
Walton, Oscar Milton
li'lelds , Charles Beccom
Mitchell, Speed Smith
Weeman, Oharlee
Finbreath, Arthur Francis Moncur, Ogilv
ie
Wilco
xon, Baxte r Allen
Frase r, Samuel
Moon, Richard Albert
Wilkie, Jamee B
Galbraith, Thomas Arthur Myers, John
Henry
Williams, Cornelius
Gottwals, William
Onstott, John Paxto n
Williston, Elijah William
Gray, Jamee Care
Orr, James Emanuel
Wilson, Elias McOartby
Griffith, Irwin
Peck, William Francie
Wilson, Weseley Thomas
Gndde.11, Lonie James
Peter s, Joseph
Wilson, William Clay
B:arkey, William Pinckney Petrie , Llaac
Newton
Wood, Ira Halst ead
Banse, Ferdinand
Ripley, Charles Jackson
Wood, Job Kittle s-106 .
B:aynee, Jam es
FELL OW OBA.FT:

Watte, Alber t .Joee ph-1.

26

354

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

To the Gmnd .Lodge of OoJ,ijornia.

1895.]

355

ENTERED A.PPRENTIOEB:

Bailey, George Washiogtoo
Bremer, August Gustave

Dnnwell, E. B.
Greeo, Dallas Damoo

Ramey, Joho
Watsoo, Delacey-6.

PETALUMA LODGE, No. 77.

WITHDRAWN:

Hendricks, Edgar James

Phipps, William Thomas

SU!:IPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Gaither, James William

Dobbins, Thomas

Hicks, Jesse(£ • .t..)

Stated Muting1, . Wednesday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.

Pease, Charles Harris-3.

DIED:

DeWitt, Jacob TCllotoo

Petaluma, Sonoma County.

West, Andrew Clark-3.

Keck, Alfred(£• ..t..)-S.

BEAR MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 76.
An&'el'• Camp, Calaveras County.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of. or nezt preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS I

Frank Arliogtoo Cromwell, &m. Deacon,
Charles Oriugton Perkins, MatlWr,
Robert Francis Johoscn, Junior Deaoon,
Jobo Partridge, Senior Warden,
William Heory Zartman, Jun. Warden, Joho Lincoln Camm, Marshal,
Charles Edward Dllloo, l Bt81.Darda,
Dolphe Brice Fairbanks, Trea.v.rer,
·
Joseph Harvey Potter, f
George Oolby Ooddiog, Secretary,
George Washiogtoo Hamiitoo, Ohaplain,
James Singley (of Arctv.ros Lodp;e, No. 180),
Pan Ma•teras

Charles Orlogton Perkioe,
John Liocolo Camm,
Dolphe Brice Fairbanks;
Wlillam Robiosoo,
Robert G Wallace,
George Fraok Alleo,
Powhattan Alfred P. Atkins, Frank Arlington Cromwell, Joho Neill.
Joseph Fraok Fairbanks,
MASTER MA.SONS :

OFFICER1j1

Joho Cooley, &mtor Deacon,
T~o':°as N Smith, Maater,
William Joseph Loriog, Benfor Warden, Woodson Garrard, Junior Deacon,
Morgan Philip Morgans, Junfor Warden, Thomas Travis Lane, Marahal,
l
Otto Dolling
David Dorie Demerest, 1Tea8urer,
Frederick H~ori Ratz f Btewardl,
Michael Arendt, Secretary,
Andrew Ryall, Tyler. •
Thomas Lee, Ohaplain,
Paet Maaters t

Harvey Spanidiog Blood, Woodson Garrard,
William Andrew Kelly,
Hezekiah Manning Richardson.
James Fitzgerald Anderson, Thomas N Smith,
MASTER MASONS :

Boarmaa, Charles
Oondo, Cyrus
Dorroh, Joho Richard
Fiadley, David
Gardner, Joho
Gardner, Robert
Graogey, Joho
Herzberg, AugnHt
Johnson, Charles Albert

Laae, Charles David
Le Moine, Charles Eocy
Lillie, Charles Andrew
Love, Alexander
.McKey; James
Perioi, Joseph Falgeozio
Perloo, Peter
Riedel, Belthaser
Roberts, Samuel Aagnstos

Rose, Warreo
Ross, Robert Hall
Ryall, Andrew
Spindel, Stephen
Stanley, Edward Oaieb
Steveoot, Emile Kooemer
Towoseod, Alpheas
Thomas, George Watson
-42.

ENTERED .APPRENTICE :

Ormsby, John Harper
Haobrich, Leonard
Adams, William Samoel
Ottolioi, Ferdioaodo
Heory, Joho
Barlow, Warreo
Hesseltioe,BeujaminLoriog Page, Wilfred
Bordthelser, Charles
. Pimm, Heory
Higbee, Hiram Bedell
Burdell, James Black
Rose, Jamee Russell
Hill, Alexander Blakey
Oamm, William
Roseburgh, Alleo
Hill, William
Cavanagh, Joho
Ragg, William Hazeo
Oavaoaagb, Thomas James Hiokle, John Baker
Johnson, Almoo Thomas Sartori, Victor
Davis, Thomas
Taylor, David Whitman
Deomao, Fr. Hardeobergh Kaliole, Fred.
Thompson, Jeff'o Asberry
Lafraochi, Angelo
Dllloo, Charles Hardy
Thomsen, Jeos
l'alrbaoks, Hiram Tolbert Martin, Bamael
Tomaeioi, Deodato Gacinto
McGrew, Samuel
Gale, Demas
McNear, George Plummer Wails, David
Gilbert, Platt Benedict
Worth, William Heory
Orllbam, Thomas Jetrersoo Meyer, Jacob Frederick
Zartman, Wiliiam-63.
Bamlltoo, William Joseph Mnoch, Christian
Baskins, Thomas Jefferson
RESTORED:

WITHDRA.WN :

Rugg, William Hazen-1.

Browo, Robert Henry-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON- PAYMENT OF DUES :

lloFaddeo,Renbeo

Kavanaugh, Joho-1.

Pierce, Oliver-2.

Yeomao, Charles-3.

DIED:

Deuman, Ezekiel

WITHDBA.WN:

Hallock, Robart FL

Wentworth, John Edelbert

Patty, Levi Hartzell

Koowlee, James Hulme-S ..

356

Returns of the 8tthordinate Lo<U;es

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

:lb the Grand Lodge of Ool,iforma.

357

MASTER MASONS :

CALAVERAS LODGE, No. 78.
San Andreaa, Calaveras County,

Stated Meel,inga, Tkuraday of or ne:et preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERSc

Frank Joseph Bolinsky, Mu.ster,
Ch I L
a.r es owe Oh a.se, Senior ])eacon,
James Andrew Newland, Sen. Warden . h
Herman Bode, Junior Warden,
' Jo n Chambers Early, Jun·i.or ])eaaon,
Ja.hier Salcido, Mar•hal,
David Cassinelli, 7h1asurer,
Cyprian Augos'!Jine,
Adolphus Henry Coulter, Secretary,
Gwin Raymond,
~ ste.wardB,
Thomas Alfred Box, Tyler.
Past Masters 1

Moses Thorpe,
William Casey
William Anderson Wallace, Charles Robe~ Bea.I
Elisha. Bryant Robert.son,.
'

Fra.uk Joseph Bolinsky,
George Christian Graves.

MASTER MASONS :

Benoe, Adolphua
Brown, Ed we.rd Munro
Del Re, Henry
Friedberger, Arnold

Maggini, John
Mingus, John Alphonso
Raggio, Joseph
Reddick, John Burke

WITHDRAWN:

Solari, Peter
Ta.Image, Christ. Colnmbus
Thorn, Benje.min Kent
Wiggin, Cha.rles-29.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Champion, John-1,

Hamlin, Thomas-I.

HUMBOLDT LODGE, No. 79.
Eureka, H11D1boldt County,

Stated Meetinga, firat Tl1ur1day in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Frederick McGeorge, Master,
Bethune Perry, Senior Warden,
Louis Rice, Junior Wal'den,
J oho Sutherla.ud Murray, 'freasurer,
James Berry Brown, &cretary,
Robert De.le Clarke, Ohaplaf.n,

John Lester Maurer, Senior ])eacon
Frederick Benje.min Barnum, J. D:acon,
Thomas Ba.roes Cotler, Marsha.I, · ·
William Henry Webster, i
Hubert Hiram Woodcock, I Steward8,
William D. McKay, Tyler.

Past Masters 1

Stephen Grant Whipple,
Thomas Barnes Cotler,
Silas Montgomery Buck
Ob d" h St h
·
'
John Sutherland Mnrray, Jacob Lowenthal
Oh I
·
'
a ia.
·ep en Silkwood
a.res Frederick Roberts, Clarence Mandv.L.Howa.rd, Thomas Cutler
'
James Berry Brown,
Louis Persons
Ab
w d T'orrey
J D"
'
ner oo
os. 1bble_Ho~tOha.mberlin, WFra.nk Olyborne,
John Austin Cottrell'
Andrew H1tchmgs,
Pope Howatt
G
. '
.
F
'
eorge WHopkms
H ira.m reema.n Thompson, Robert McFa.u•
sa.mue
IH
'
J h
·
..
olmes,
o n Ma.rvm Melendy,
Edwin Hudson Percy,
James Franklin Thomp
BOD,

Aioheson, Cephas
ll'oster, Seth Burnham
McLellsn, Walter Ma.rte.hr
Albee, Roswell Hitchcock Frisbey, Russell Bud!ey McNe.me.ra., W11lia.m Jewett
Alvensleben, Brnno
Frost, Elmer James
McPherson, Je.mes
Anderson, Andrew William Gallop, John Thome.a
MoVice.r, Je.mes
Anderson, William Orr
Geer, Knypha.nsen
Metoa.lf, Curtis Enoch
Axe, Frederick
Gibson, Gordon Whitfield Mickelson, Alexander
Ayers, Louis La.fe.yette
Gra.ha.m, John George
Monroe, Alonzo Judson
Backens, John Emil
Gra.ha.m, Wesley Charles Nicholson, A.rchiba.ld
Backenstose, Edward
Gross, Reuben
Nielson, Niels Peter
Barna.rd, James Edwin
Ha.ensel, Julius H. G.
Noble, HnghJa.mes
Bend1xsen, Hans Ditler
Ha.lliilay, David Henderson Ohman, Igoe.tins Joseph
Bennett, Peter
Hamilton, John
Petty, Josiah
Berry, George Keys
Hanna., William Patterson Pine, John Nelson
Ble.kwell, Thomas
Hansel, Amos
Pine, Sa.ffordFa.y
Bonifield, Samuel
He.rmon, Charles Tree.dwell Powell, Robert Be.ldwiu
Borg, Edward Nelson
Henderson, James William Redmond, James
Boyd, David Adair
Henry, Robert
Rice, Peter 0
Broadbent, Sherman
Hetfteld, Albert De Forrest Richardson, Charles
Brown, William
Higgins, James Franklin Robbins, Jos.Ma.rcus Wyght
&ill, Charles Warren
Roberts, Albert J)
Bryce, William
Bullock, Na.tha.niel
Hill, John A
Ross, Andrew We.Iker
Cameron, James Brnce
Hill, Randle
Rowe, Enoch James
Campbell, Alexa.oder
Holmes, Robert
Sargent, John Samuel
Carr, John
Horner, Oscar Alonzo
Schorr, John
Carson, George
Howe.rd, Elle.a Harrold
Schwartz, He.rry Augustus
Oa.rson, Thomas
Hunter, Geo. WS11hiugton Sevier, Ernest
Carson, William
Hutchins, Robert We.Iker Sinclair, John Archibald
Caughey, William Norman Johnson, Johan Adolph
Smith, Arthur M
Cave, Henry Alfred
Jones, Prentiss Mellen
Soule, Ha.niliba.I Scott
Cha.pma.n, Emery Jona.than Kane, Alexa.oder
Stegemeyer, Charles Henry
Chester, Martin Theodore Kille.in, William
Stewart, Charles Henry
Christie, Howard Leslie
Kingsbury, Lewis Bnoncore Stoessiger, Julius Theodore
Clendenen, Francis Arthur Langford, George
Strong, Wa.lla.ce Ka.leoa
Cockburn, William
Le Vasseur, William
Swanger, Samuel A.de.ms
Colwell, Charles Everitte Long, Charles A.dington
Tabor, William Henry
Conant, Edward
Matheson, Daniel
Taylor, Charles Gilford
Thompson, Albert Edward
Oopela.nd, Robert
Maxwell, Sidney Alister
McCa.nn, Cba.rles Frederick Thomas, James Franklin
Corbett, Ava.rd Longley
Dayton, James White
McCormack, Ja.s. Madison Turner, John William
Dinkelspiel, Adolph
McCullens, David
Weaver, John H (}
Dodge, Horace Francis
MoCutcheon, Robert
Wiley, Austin
Mc Dona.Id, John
Wilson, Emmet Wakeman
Doe, Herman S
Douglas, George Carlton McGeorge, Peter
Woodcock, Samuel Alex.
McKay, Riche.rd
Young, Nelson
Douglas, Hiram Lory
Dungan, Garland Albert
McKella.r, Dona.Id
Young, Robert
Eddy, John Mathewson
McKenzie, Peter Mcintyre Ziegler, Fra.nk-172.
Fanning, John Angus
FELLOW CRAFT :

ENTERED A.PPRENTIOE :

Ellis, Charles Sta.rr-1.

Baker, Thome.a-I.
WITHDRA. WN :

Noecker, Charles

Richardson, Willis Lea.nder-2.

358

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

(Aug. 1,

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oali/qrnia.

359

DIED:

Long, Charles William
PieroP, Walter
Matheson, Andrew Bonton Seiohel, John Wa.iteman

Bohne, Bans Heinrich {B•.a..)
West, William Alfred {B• .a..)

YOLO LODGE , No. 81.

-6.

Yolo, Yolo County.

Stated Meetings, Sat11rday of or next preceding Full Moon.

IONE LODGE , No. 80.
Ione, Ainador CoantJ'.

Stated Meetings, Saturday oj or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICE RS a
Jacob Surface, Matter,
Jnlins Edmond Hober, Sen. Warden,
Franklin Free, Junior Warden,
John Mr.rchant, Treaaurer,
William Artbnr Beuneits, Secre,ary,
Riobard Heman Ford, Ohaplain,

James Phillip Snrface, Stmior Deacon,
Frank Frates, Juniot· lJeacoo,
John Whitten Surface, Marshal,
George Angustas Meiss, l stewards
Michaelis Hammer,
f
'
John Hartman, Tyl.er.

OFFICER S a
John Gothier Bower, Jr., Senior Deacon,
Charles Henry Bork, Maner•
·
John William Cannell, Senior Warden, James Lemuel Pace, Junior JJeacof&,
Samuel Van Scarlett, Junior Warden, Lewis Cramer, Marllhal,
Armand Abraham Levy, Trell3urer,
Herman Seltenbeim,
l Stewards,
Bernard Boracb, Seoretary,
ColnmbosWasht'n Hatcher, f
Samuel Lemnel Nutting, Tyler.
Charles Henry Bork,
James Lemuel Pace,

John Dabney Perkins,
James Franklin Stewart,
William Arthur Bennett;., John Wesley Heath,
James Phillip Sarface,
Oliver Plummer.
Jacob Surface,

ENTERED APPRENT ICE:

SUSPENDE D FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

'Fox, Willlem Henry-1.

Sat.berland, George-1 .
DIED:

Clark, Hugh

Hughes, Hagb-2.

Johnson, Andrew Henry
Gable, Harvey Clinton
Scarlett, James Edward
Houx, George Reed
Howard, Edward Stephen Taylor, John Z.-22.
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Hoppin, Charles Rosetor-1 .
WITHDRAW.N':

Grim, William Evert-2.

Fisher, James Richard
DIED!

Woodard, George Waahlngt on-1.

MASTER MASONS :

Adams, Abner La Fayette Jordan, James
Okell, Edward Joseph
Atkinson, WllliRm Wallace Lamb, Frederick
Pardoe, Daniel Borden
Black, Charles Standiford Leininger , Frank
-Ruman, Charles August
Olifton, Thomas
Maestretti , Amatore James Spencer, Sheldon
Orabtree, Isaac Jackson
Maestretti , Antonio
Sntberland , Albert
Dillian, Benjamin Franklin McMnrry, James William Taverner, George
Ford, Hiram Wilder
Moffit, James Albert
Whitaker, James Andrew
Gregory, John Hamilton Moore, Beth Beardsley
Whitlatch,' Daniel Harry
Hoadley,G eorgeThom pson Newman , Jacob
Zyss, Charles-4 .7.
Jones, Morris
Nixon, Lyman

Daniel Francis Houx,

MASTER MASONS:

Borach, Jerome
Dillion, J oho Francis
tDouglae, James Arcbills
Gable, Amos William

Pad Maater8'

Junius Farnswort h,
John Whitten Surface,
Bernhard Isaacs,
John Marchant,

Pa•t Maater••
John Gothier Bower, Jr.,
John William Cannell,

RISING STAR LODGE , No. 83.
Fore•t BUI. Placer County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER l!it
William Addison La Rue, Senior Deaco"I,
Obarles Duvall Akers, Master,
John Henry Armstrong , Junior Deac'Jn,
Charles Benet, Stmior Warden,
Andrew Morehead , Marshal,
William Grey Jacka, Junior Warden,
William Henry Grenell, 7recuurBT,
Richard TbomBR,
l Steward.I,
Edwarll Michael Limnell, f
Henry Wilson Taylor, Bearetary,
William Smith,' Tyler.
J oho E Allen, Ohaplain,
John E Allen,
Jamee Rusaell Glover,

Paat Ma.ier• t
John MoAnlncb,
William Henry Grenell,

Charles Duvall Akers,
Frank Ellsworth Oolburn.

360

Returns of the Subordinate Lod.ges

[Aug. 1,

MASTER MAtlONS :

Anderson, Angust
Breece, Abraham
Foster, Stewart Ormsby
Gray, Edward
Hatch, Jonas Alexander

Northwood, William ·
Pasco, Joseph Nosy
Pillow, Francis Franklin
Boole, Kendrick Bancroft
-29.

Jones, John D.
Lind, Ch&rles
Mardis, Benjamin Allen
McAulay, George
McKinley, Archibald

To the Grand Lodge of Ool,ifornw.

1895.]

KciWhinney, Isaac Newton Sboenfeld, Salomon David Wentz, Henry
Korgan, George Edward Shade, Reuben Alor
West, Jubn M
)(urphy, Sylvanns Everett Smith, Joseph
Westlake, George Walker
1'orvell, Robert Harens
Swain, Theodore Slevin
White, George Allen
Rawson, Hiram Aaron
Ward, Ephraim Harlow
Wietldieck, Herman Henry
Boaaland, Ole Oscar
Weidiman,Loule Oar! Fred. Worley, William Henry-72.
FELLOW CRAFT ;
Smith, George Waehington-1.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Phelps, William-1.

WITHDRAWN;

ENTERED Al'PRENTIOEB ;

Love, George Alexander

361

Rea, William-2.

WITHDRAWN:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DU.£8:

Wilson, David Donald-I.

Read, Albert Gallatin-1.
DIED:

Kelting, Jaoob-1.

Cooper, William Harrison Gedney, David Wetmore
Epperson, Jacob Heney
Kimball, Gorham Gates--6.

Anstey, John B
Champlin, George

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYllENr OF DUEB :

Oad walader Charles
Cameron, Jamee Strong
Giil, .Jamee William

Richart, Henry Oharles
Ryan, Pierce

Schroeder, Aug. D Bernard
Thurman, Dlllard-7.

NAVAL LODGE, No. 87.
V:ESPER LODGE, No. 84.

Vallejo, l!lolano County.

Red Blatr, Tehama County.

St,a,ted Meetings, third Thursday in e,tUh momh.

Stated Meetings, Thu.f'sday of or ne;et preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Nollman, Mallf,er,
Willle.m Preston Johnson, Ben. Warden,
George Thomas Jones, Junwr Warden,
William Brower Cahoone, Treasurer,
William Thomas Lewis, Secretary,
Alex. lllcKeon McCoy, Ohaplain,
William David Olendorf,
Nathaniel Merrill,
John Wesley Brown,

Pelham Howard Coffman, Sen. Deacon,
William Robert Hall, Junior Deacon,
William Harvey Cox, Marshal,
Charles Henry Darrongh, l Stewards,
Albert Henry EdwardA, f
Samuel Lewis, Tyler.

Paat .Maaterat
Henry Withers Brown,
James Lonie Barham,,

William Harvey Cox,
John Francis Ellison.

MASTER MASONS :

Davenport, John 8
Bailey, Mark
Balis, Ge<>rge Washington De Hav~, David H.
Doane, Scott
Ballard, Cnrtis Durkee
Dnhig, Lonie James
Boatman, William
F.lmore, Robert Hoyle
Boole, Frauk Arthnr
Fickert, William Charles
Brooks, Hyatt 0
·Fish, Charles Erskine
Brown, Ancil l;ycnrgus
Fish, Erskine
Cain, Martin Adolphus
Campbell, Charles Ablje.h Fish, Lafayette
Fish, William Andrew
Chipman, Norton Parker
Foster, John Henry
Cohn, Alexander
Gilsoa, Thomas
Commlna, Job

Harvey, Joseph Henry"
Healey, Lncien Bonaparte
Billhonse, John Clayton
Howell, Thomas Newton
JellAy, Frank Lee
Lamb, Charles Herman
Lyman, William He11ry
Lyon, Darwin Balcom
Martin, Robert Alva
Mayhew, Horace Allen
McCoy, Leo Lewis
McKenney, William Davia

OFFICERS1

Sylvester Warford, Mallf,er,
George Valentine Carter, Sen. Warden,
Charles Emme, Junior Warden,
John Brownlie, Treasurer,
Oharlee Franklin Mngridge, Secr11taf"1/,
Nathaniel Gonld Hilton, Ohaplain,
Ieaac Myers Rutan,
Obarlee Daly,
Ieaac Sherwood Halsey,
Christian T. B. Hu.llin,
Hartin Jeremiah Wright,
William Brownlie,

Albertine Huckins, Stnior Deacon,
Oswald Hane Jacob Schlott, Jun. .Deacon,
Jamee Alfred Greenwood, Marshal,
Charles Henry Warford, l stewarda,
Robert Wood,
f
Henry Brace, Tyler.

Pait Ma•ter11
George Ronnde,
Nathaniel Gonld Hilton,
Edmond McLeee',
Frederick Winslow Hali,
Sylvester Warford,

Andrew Jackson McPike,
Gnstaf Adolph Bergwall,
Walter Duncan Anderson,
Joho Jacob Lucbeloger,
Osgood L Hilton.

MAtlTER MASONS:

Aden, Melcbart Remmers
Aden, Remmer Johan R.
Andrews, William
Aabweii, Charles
Beil, John
Beveridge, David Forney
Bla1iand, Duncan Colville
Blackmon , Philetns Swift
Blewett, Edward
llond, Frederick Taylor

27

Bradley, Edward Arlington Ehlers, Peter Frederick
Brownlie, James
Ellis, Joseph Doane
Carman, Ambrose Sherman En·Yonng, Charles
Carpenter, Lewie
Eeborn, Homer
Chandler, Henry Walker Fabianeen, Alexander
Chrletianeen,Charles Jacob Faesett, Thomae Odeon
Dannenbanm, Iee.ac
Faust, John
Danneobaum, Solomon
Fischer, August Ernst
Deninger. Jacob Frederick Ford, Henry Jones
Dr&ke, Frank
Forrest, Thomaa Monsell

362

Returns of the Siibordinate LOdges

[Aug. 1,

Foy, Harry Leon
Martin, James Lewis
Savage, Thomas
Gedge, William Kelly
Mini, Damiano
Schild, George Ferdinand
Geodreao ,Charles Anthony Moran, Owen
Shillingsborg, William
Gostavesoo,"Ernest Alexis Mooroe,Josepb Wellington Skelly, :William P
Hall, George Henry
Murray, Patrick
Small, Frederick Aognstoe
Hall, Henry Knox
Nealley, Gilbert Lafayette Springborg, Peter Conrad
Hammar, Alrik
Norbey, Peter Oliver
Stevena, Calvin Elkins
Harrier, Daniel Webster Oakley, Gilbert Hewlett Sundqnest, Ernst William
Hassler, John Charles
O'Hara, John Henry
SoUon, James Lawrence
Haoecbe, Theodore George Olsen, Ole Goodberg
Taylor, David Atkeo
Heath, Obarles Riebe.rd
Pl&ieted, George Pomeroy Tbieler, Charles Edw&rd
Heodereon,Orringtoo Lant Piercy, Je.mee
Tingbory, Cbllrlee Edw&rd
Hilton , Osgood H&rrold
P lymire, J&mes Adame
Topley, James
Hodgkins, Edwin Andress Powell, Je.mee Henry
Tripp, William Henry
Holden, John Joseph
Quigley, Benje.min Cook
We.II, Charles John
Janda, Je.mee
Ramm, Peter
Warford, George Hichboro
Johnson, Otto
Recbenm&cher, Ferdinand We.rCord, Lewie Sylveetet
King, John Love&ll
Richardson, Henry Douglas White, Jamee
Knowles, Seth
Roperto, G&letano
Widenman, Ohe.rlee
Leach, Frank Alee.man
Rossell, Willi&m Abbott
Wilson, George Wilkins
Leber, Will!&m B&muel
Rutherford, David
Wilson, John
Leith, John
Sankey, John Bartram
Wlnobell, Fr&nk Theodore
Mann, Orville Grant
-123.
FELLOW CRAFT :
Tomke, Edwa'rd-1.

Past Maatera 1

Stephen Barnett Blakllelee,
Solomon Lucien Bl&ckwell,

James Redington,
Re.smns Petereon RoBBen.

Allison, Peter
Long, Willi&m D&vid
Berndt, Hane
Me.rtin, John Ohristian
Brown, George Washington :M.atteod&, Lonie
Do Millien , Emile Artbnr Mobley, We.lter Leon
Glaeson,Joei&h
Moore, De.vid Je.me"
Jepsen, Chrieti&n Otto
Morrison, Angus R&y
L&ndebnrg, J&eper
Osborne, Thomas lsr&el

Qnfnn, Miehe.el
Tregidgo, Alfonso Adol phus
Watson, Henry
Webster, Geo.Washington
White, Fr&ncis
Willie.me, Willi&m Owen
-35.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

FELLOW OKA.FT:

Wlle&rman, John Henry-1.

M:eyere, James Perkins-1.
DIED:

J&mee, William David-1.

ROSE'S BAR LODGE, No. 89.
Smaru.tlle, Yuba County.

Haraszthy, Bele.-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Simonton, George William

Je.mes Reid,
Alexander Rauch,
MASTER MASONS:

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Barnes, Doogle.e Gilson

363

'1.o the Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

1895.]

Skinner, William Wright- 2.

Stated Mutings, Saturday of or next prectding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

SUSPENDED FOR NO:!'l·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Anderson, Thome.a Robert
Bell, George

McDonnell, John Edmond
Mcintosh, De.vid

Browne, John Miiis, P.G.M.

Powell, Abr&bam

O'Neil, Henry-Ii.

DIBD:

Titcombe, J.ohn Locke-3.

Allen Presley, Master ,
S&mpeon De.vey, 8eflior Deacon,
Engene Oe Lorimer Hapgood,SBn. Ward., Willie Or~on We.Iker, JunW'r Dea.con,
John North Flint, J unior Warden,
Oscar Fitzallen Redfield, ,l{ar•hal,
Carlton Welborn Monasco, 7reiuurer,
Joaeph A Flint, l Stewai·ds,
Bobert Bee.tty, Beoretar'J,
John Beatty, Jr., I
Riebe.rd Bee.tty, Tyler.
Pa&t Manera•

Jobn Beatty, Jr.,

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

Alex&nder Re.cob, Master,
John Owen Evans, Senio1· Deacon,
Theodore WetZel, Jr., Senior Wardrn,
Rush Dix Skidmore, Junior Deacon,
Louis Bushell, Junior Warden,
John Riche.rd Jones, Marahal,
John Henry Helwig, Trec1surer,
- - - - - - , t Sleularth,
Grant Skidmore, 8 eorttary,
Riche.rd Ro be rt Jones, r
Cornelius Arnold Tilton, Tyler.

Allen Presley.

MASTER MASONS :

QUITMAN LODG~, No. 88.
North Bloomfield, Nt1vada County.

Joseph A Flint,

Brown, David
Dowd, Thom&S

Mayor, F rancis Abr&h&m

Fitzpe.trick, Peter
Monk, J&mes

-16.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Stewart, Walter James

Woehler, Otto Arwed-2.

364

Returns of the Subordinate Lodge,s

[Aug. 1,

1895.]

365

'lb the Grand Lodge of California.
MASTER MASONS :

NORTH STAR LODGE, No. 91.
Fort Jone1, Sl&kfyoa Coanty.

Benjamin, De Witt Clinton Merrill, Charles Edwin
Ramsey, George Wilson
Raderle, John
Shields, Michael
Largereon, Frederick
WITHDRAWN:

Stated Meeting1, Saturday of or ~t preceding Full Moon.

Demuth, Reoben-1.
DIED:

OFFICERS1

Israel Smith Mathews, Master,
Isaac Roberts, Senior Deacon,
Walter Elliot Glendeninir, Sen. Warden, Isaac Hamilton, Junior Deacon,
Ro~ert Mitchell Walker, Junwr Warden, James Camp, Marshal, ·
Fehx Konz, Treasurer,
John Emerson Crawford, l
Martin Caster Beem, 8111retary,
· William Glendening,
f Stewards,
Hiram Wilson, Tyler.
Henry Jonas Diggles,
John Tyler Moxley,
William Jay Root,

Allen, Michael
Beem, Andrew Addison
Christie, J oho
Coooor,Jacoh
Dangle, Joseph
Fletcher, James Henry Hamiltoo, John
Heartetraod; Pan! Alfred

Henderson, John
Milliken, Albert
Henry, George
Parrott, Charles Booth
Born, David
Quigley, John
Lincoln, Eric Theodore
Bell, Adam B
Lincoln, John Aaguet
Shelley, William Benton
Lindsay, Richard Scroggs Short, John
Lattrell, Samuel Jackson
Yoong, John Wesley-39,

Joseph Travelli,
Martin Coster Beem.

John Henry Steves, Master,
William Wirt Bradbury, Ben. Warden,
John Chase Potter, Junior Warden,
Frederick William Kroeber, Treasurer,
Jamee Mitchell, Secretary,
Jamee Mitchell, Ohaplain,

August Chas. Rauipeodahl, Ser.. DeaOOfl,
Franz Ludwig Beck, Junior Deacon,
Charles Rose Vann, Marshal, ·
John Chaeu Potter,
l 8f£wards,
William' Alexander Bingham, f
James McGee, Tyl.er.

Past Masten 1

David R Richie.

William Whittingham Lyman,
MAl!TER MASONS:

Tonkins, William Henry--4.

ACACIA LODGE, No. 92.
Coloma, El Dorado County.

Stated Meeting1, 'l'huraday of or nezt preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS1

Francis Nicholle, Maater,
Charles Augustus Rasmussen, Sr. Deacon,
Charles Schulze, Senior Warden,
Daniel Teuscher, Junior Deacon,
John Wesley Killongh, Junior Warden, William David Othick, Marshal,
Francis Marion Bell, freaaurer,
Giousi Bassi,
l
rdB
John Price, Secretary,
Edw.a rd William Meglone, I 8 tewa •
John McGrew, Tyler.
Past ltlaeters 1

Francis Nicholls,

St. Helena, Napa County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:r:t preceding Full Moon.

Broce Stanley Ward,

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

James Moon,

Evans, Edward Harlan-2.

OFFICERS:

MASTER MASONS :

Sorensen, John

Yoong, Commodore Perry

ST. HELENA LODGE, No. 93.

Paet Maatere 1

Israel Smith Mathews,
Daniel Ream,
Elton Thompson Balley,

Dudley, John El Dorado
Erno, Abram

TeDBcher, John Harvey
Weller, Elias-21.

Henry Mahler.

Pellett, Frank H'z Alphonso
Adamson, Christian Pugh Howard, John Charles
Peterson, William
Allison, Jamee Andrew
Hoemann, George C.
Amebnry, Thomas
Kettlewell, Benj. Franklin Priest, Daniel lChorchill
Priest, David Quick
Andereo.n, Ulrick
Lane, Robert Forester
Priest, William Henry
Baldridge, William
Lazarae, Leopold
Rasmussen, Andrew
Beck, Lawrence Lausen
Mathie, Jacob Alvin
Rann, Frank Charles
Boland, Michael Sixon
McCnlly, John
Clark, Samuel Gilman
Mcintyre, Jamee Jackson Redoall, Charles Frederick
Connor, Gabriel John
Meacham, Henry Martin Rice, Charles Frederick
Shakespear, David
Davie, Cornelius Etting
Mecklenberg, Joseph
Smith, Elbert Gibe on
Dawson, Wm. Jae. Gremley Mooney, Thomas, Jr.
Thomae, Marcos Waehingt'n
Foe, Raymond
Newcomer, Stewart
Tnoker, Bird
Pried, David
Newkirk, Isaac Jamee
Torner, WilliaDl Abbott
Galeweky, David
Newman, Alexander
Weston, Frank
Greenfield, Chas. Hayden Noble, John Stuart
Hanson, William
Nottage, F1·aok Melville - Williams,~Alton Levant
York, Eli . McBride-66.
Barris, Henry Harrison
Ootwaters, Nelson T
Bop kine, Reory Clay
Palmer, Lyman Lother
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

WITHDRAWN:

Beeretecher, Charles Jolias-1.

Bollard, Alfred Benry-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

l'orreeter, John
Inman, Marcos Fayette

8tarkweather, Jesse

Trainor, Louis Howard-'.

.ReturTl8 of the Suhordi·n.ate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

HOWARD LODGE, No. 96.

HENRY CLA y LODGE, No. 95.

Yreka. Slaklyou. County.

Satter Creek. Amador County,

Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.

Stated Meeti'/&gs, Thuraday of or ne:ct prtceding Full Moon.

OFFIUERS1

OFFICERS1

Jo11ah Nichols "a·•I Leo11ard Culbert, Senior Deacon
'""''"""'•
.., _._ Ch ares
Nortoll Se ,
Charles Howard
'
J
>hor .. ar...,11 Elb "d
'
ri ge ames Post, Junior Deaoon,
'
Jackso11 De1111 is, Junior Warden
John McDougall Post, Marshal
'
Morris Brion, 1recuurer
William Henry Gonsolus
Hermann Lehmann, seO:.eta,..•,
' Btewarda,
Robert Pope,
· 11
A h
nt ony Trevorrow, Chaplain,
John Jelimini, Pyler,

f '

l!'rederick Alexander Antenreitb; ,l[alfter, Edward Montague Walbaok, &m. Deacon,
George Washington Oooper, Sen. Ward., George Frederick Houghton , Jr. Deacon,
Henry Conroy J)eWit", J unior Warden, James Robert Tapscott, Marshal,
l Stew d8
William Lennox,
John Enoch Harmon, 7hlasurer,
ar '
William Lorenzo Hobbs, f
Frederick Martin, l:Jecretary,
Samuel Pellet (of S t. John'• Lodge, No. 87), Py181'.
P aut l'llaatera •

Paet llla•tera,

Alvlnza·Hayward,
Morris Brinn,
John Lithgow,

Ed ivard Converse Voorhies Joseph Fountain Ohaodler
' Lonie Katz,
Robert Pope,
'
John McDougal Post,
William Henry Gunsolus.

David Beam,
John Morrill Walbridge,
James Vance,
Hudson B Gillis,

Gerraos, John
Hattersly, John
Jones, Edward
Lithgow, Theodore
Millikan, Jesse

Sanders, William Atwood
Smith, Samuel
Smith, Webster
8 tyles, George Washington
Tregloao, John Rogers
Mitchell, Charles Ormby Trodgen, Thomas William
M
Vollmer, .Toho
!ere, Daniel
V h
Nicholls, James
oor els, Frank Arthur
Walter Henry Fra 0 kll 0
Norton, Virgil Winfield
Watkio's, Royal
Norton, William Henry
Patterson, David Anderson \Veil, Aaron
II
Wildman William T
Peterson, Charles Henry
nrre
.
'
. .
Redpath, Robert
Cleveland
BenJ.
Willrams,
R'
ichardsoo, Lorenzo Corn's Yelminf, Victor Paciftc-1>9.J
WITHDRAWN:

Anteoreith , Edw'd Herman Gillis, Oharles Brockden
Hart, Edwin Charles
Babcock, William Lee
Henderson, P eter
Barton, John Henry
Hirst, Roland us Porter
Beard, J oho Samuel
Hovey, Frank
Brannan, Thomas
Jack•oo, Andrew
Coburn, Lonie Farren
Collar. Adaoiroo .Todsoo Jones, J ohn J ohnsoo
Lange, Peter Christian
DeWitt, Elisha
Leland, William L ester
DeWitt, Robert Hewitt
Nichole, Henry
Doten, Josiah Wilson
Orr, Oliver
Eddy, Irving Levi
Osterman, Jurgen,
Eddy, Nelson Harvey
Pabriciue, Andrew Jackson Prather, Clarence Morton
Palrchild, John Abraham Barter, Harvey Johnson
Shearer, Robert,
Plelder, J oho Lorimer

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES·

L
ewis, Lemuel Thomas
Myers, John

·
Kirkland, John N1"cholson

DIED:

Brown, William Henry

Calvin Levi Gregory,
Charles Amos Larison,
J ames Robert Tapscott.

Sheldon, Luther Augustus
Simmons, George
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Straw, ·1saac Jefferson
Truax, Andrew Yates
Truitt, Henry
Torner, Walter
Turner, William Wallace
Wadsworth, Henry
Wadsworth, James Henry
Walker, Benjamin Franklin
White, James Melville
White, Samuel
Wilkinson, Burnell Dumont
-62.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Svircich, Fraok-L
Crockor, Newell Wetherbee
H • Obarles Stephen
on.,

John William Bird,
John Enoch Harmon,
Olareoce Stewart Smith,
MASTER MASONS:

MASTER MASONS :

Allen, George
Ayer, John Woodman
Bastian, James Buzza
Bell, William
Borke, Thomas .Jefferson
Burns, William Hector
01\ldwell, .Tames Walter
Culbert, Thomas Lilly
Davis, Tallyesio
Deacon, Hiram
Ellis, John
Fleming, .Joseph
Frazer, Martin LothM
Gerraos, .Teremiah

367 .

Templeton, Isaac Newton- 2.

-6.

Deetze, George
Jones, Alfred McClellan

Boole, Stephen H.
Wallace, Stephen Thomas Rev.

Waters, Jacob--5.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Kennedy, Clarence Bolton Parker, Samuel Fayette
Connor, Richard Lee .
Robertson , Henry David
Davidson, James McDermott Martin, Mil too Ferney
-6.

DIED:

Doyle, Charles Henry-I.

368

.&turns of the Suhordinate Lodges ,

[Ang. I,

369

'Io the (hand Lodge of OaUfornw.

1895.]

MASTER MASONS :

JEFFERSO N LODGE, No. 9'7.
La Porte, Plumas Couuty,

Stated Mutinga, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Webber, Geo. Edward
Williams, Heory-17.

Floyd, William Benjamin
Gribble, John Thomas
.Hunter, Wllliam Wilkin

Jacobs, Levy Taylor
Washiuv;ton, Patrick

Ball, David Wilder
Oamps, Geroloma

McMiliian, John Alexander

John Milton Mossey, .Master,
Eugene Squier, Senior Deacon
Henry Kingdon, Senior Wat"den
David W Corbett, Junior Dea:an,
William Sherman, Junior War~
- , Marshal,
Benjamin Wilcox Barnes T•eaeurer
Oharles Henry Shaw•
•
· Cayot, Becretaru;'
F ranc1s
"'-- d
""""'ar s,
Oliver Francie Caya,
.
·"
Onez1me Liberty, Tyler.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Reeb, George-4.

WITHDRAWN:

Newman, Maurice Henry-1.

f

Pa•t lllaaten 1

Benjamin Wilcox Barnes,

LA GRANGE LODGE, No. 99.

John Milton Mtl81ley,

Engune Bqoier.

Merced, Merced Coa.nty.

MASTER MASONS :

Brewster, Herbert
Clark, William Marceline
Hoorley, Fitz Allen
Ham, Moses W. Burnham
Hendel, Oherles William
Johnson, Andrew

K.in~an, lleo. Washiogton Mullen, Nathaniel B
L&ss1at, John Baptiste
ProBSer, William
Lncas, John Samuel
Robertson, John Hutchinson
.Masoo, Henry
Wendler, Fred'k Sherman
McN!lire, George Morrison Wingate, Charles Birkmire
-26.

WITHDRAWN:

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:'

Farren, Bamnel Ritty-1.

Stated Mutings, first T'UUday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Albert Pitzer, Senior Deacon,
Oharles Simon, Master,
Oscar Alexander Baker, Senior Warden, William Thomas King, Junior Deacon,
James Leonard, Marshal,
James Simon, Juntor Ward~n,
Edward Stephen O'Brien, l Stetoarda
O&rter Landram, 2Teasurer,
'
f
Francis ·Peck,
John G Elliott, Seuretary,
George Washington Yoakom, 2}/ler.

Thomas John Hiram-I.

.Paat lllaatera 1

DIED:

Mcintosh, Alexander

Moore, David-2.

Edward Stephen O'Brien,
Frederick Becker,
Frank Horace Goold,
Oarter Landram,
lDramNew'nRn cker,P.G.M.Cha rles Simon,
John Harmony Appling,
Robert Gracey,
Albert Pitzer,

Wiiiiam John Hart,
James Leonard,
William Leland Means,
Eldridge Gerry Rector.

.Goldman, Lonie
Badt, Aaron
Barfield, George Hardwick Goldman, Morres
Baomu.n, Joline Gruenwald Hall, Thomas Albert
Hamlin, Ernest Kimball
Blnmenthal, Bernard
Hammatt, Robert William
Breen, Nicholas
Hardwick, Wm. Jelfersoo
Burchell, Milton Cook
9arpenter, Ransom Ambers Harris, Charles
Horsley, William Henry
' Clark, Lew Bradley
Houghton, Frederick T
Poleman, William Ellis
Hnlfmao, Charles Henry
Compton, Warren
Hnlse, Alfred Wood
Oook, George Beecher
Hant, William Horton
Croop, Stephan Decatur
Jacob, Isaac Henry
Ononingham, James
Landram, John Oarr
DeLoss, Herbert
Marks, Oharles Henry
Fleming, Charles Edgar
i'raser, Alexander Simon McKain, Edward James
Naffziger, John
Frnit, Jefferson
Neighbor, Gilbert lilodineGaribaldi, Giacomo

Poor, Floury Gnstin
Ralston, Clark
Reed, John Trnman
Robinson, Charles Auguetos
Roes, Henry Christofer
Sherman, Walter Nathan
Silman, William Lewie
Sproule, Isaac Henry
Stevens, Abram Robbinson
Stoddard,Ebene zerMaxwell
Stoneroad,Geo. Washington
Terrell, Overton Harrison
Torner, William Henry
Warfield, Charles Alex. H.
Weetbay, William Wesley
Wilson, Nathaniel Hoag
Worden, Hyland Hob bard
Zirker, Adolph Jacob-73.

MASTER MASONS :

HORNITO S LODGE, No. 98 .
Hornltoa, lllarlpo9a County.
u
Stated MtJetings, Satu'f'day of or nezt preceding Full nzoon.

OFFICERss

.
.
Will'
William Adams, MaBter,
iam Smith Thomas, Senior Deaoon
J
Joseph Branson, Senior Warden
'
Benjamin Allen Shepard, Junior Warden ;.~~,Ph Spagnoli, Juni.Qr Decwon,
' J ~ am Adolph Grade, Marshal,
Joseph Franklin Thorn 7Teasurer
. . : :H~~itchell, Stewards,
Joho Babtista Trabocc~, Beoreea,.,l,

f

Samuel Tippett, 2}/ler.
P . .t lllaater:

William Adams.

28

370

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

..

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of California.

371

FELLOW ORA.FT:
Past Maatera 1

Barris, Renben-1.
ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Jones, Joseph Simpson

Mcswain, John Frnit-2.

Samuel Baker Harriman, Ephraim Marriner Thomu,
John Bell Rathbun,
Thomas Pattinson,
Samnel Edward Swensson, James Beebe Knapp.

Adams Barrett,
Isaac Tibbetts Ooffin,
Henry Ells,

DIED:

Davis, Reuben Tnrteloite

MASTER MASONS:

Hurford, John Samuel

Poe, John Totten-3.

CAMPO SECO LODGFl, No. 100.
Valley Sprlng11, CalaYera• County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday oj or ne:xt preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS a

Edward Maher, Mallter,
John Donald Baker, Senior ])eacon,
Edward John Borger, Senior Warden,
John Kellogg Pattee, Junfor lJeaoon,
Edward Torner French, Junior Warden, Hiram Ashley Messenger, Marahal,
Ohristian Borger, 7Tea.urer,
Joseph Oelestine Diebold, t 8t611Jarda
Anthony Anderson, Secretary,
John Henry Temby, Jr., f
'

- - - - - - . 77,tler.

A

Past Maateraa

Hiram Ashley Messenger,
Anthony Anderson,

Edward Maher,

BenJ·amin James Noyes, Henry Leonard
Gr.•ffi'h&,
Atnadeo, Nicola
•
Noyes, Mark Fisk
Halsey. Henry Hyer
Beamer, John
· s ims Hami'Jton, John
Oates, Lewis Davis
Buckman, Benjamm
Peters, Metkalf Lorenzo
Buckman, Thomas Milb on Heuser' George Heur.Y
Clendening, John
Hoysink, Bernard Henry Rose, David
Cloudman, Octavius King Iver~on, James H~ns
Rose, James
Matthew
Rawlins, Walter A
Cook, William
Je"'ersou,
u'
Rathbun, Frank Laroe
Cortis, Solon Mc K een
Jones' William
Josiuk, Bernard Henry
Robie, Ira Allen
Davia, Abraham
.
Schell, Perry Beujamm
Ketchum, Frank
Diner, Henry
Schmidt, Georg Wilhelm
Drynou, Alexander
La Kamp, John Henry
Sherriff, Henry
Duncan, David
Leary, Jerry
Erakioe, Alexander Edwin Lohman, Peter
l::iimons, Henry
Eahbach, David Mayer
Maguire, Francis Turner Towle, George Gould
Preutel, Henry
Miaker George Samuel
White, William Henry
Whitten, Frederick W
Gilford, Robert
M"rt·1n,' Noble
Gowling, Philip
Ml. tchell, William Frederick Whistler, William Girard
Grimn, Oliver
Nichols, Thllmas Jefferson Wilkinson, Wllliam-73.
Grimth, Jeremiah

Edward John Borger.

MASTER MASONS :

FELLOW CRAFT :

Bacigalnppl,John Angnstino Jonbson,Franklin Lafayette Palmer, John Wm. Dene!
Borger, Louis Wesley
Lu.cas, James Bennett
Peters, John Henry
Cotter, George Webber
March, William Bright
Schrack,. Henry Olay
Hinckley, Joseph Johnson Messenger, Nel~on Cyrna
Walter, Cha.a Francls-23.
Holman, Ira Newfield

Lorenzo, Jacobs-1.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

Freeman, Charles Amos- 1.

RESTORED:

Dryuau, Alexauder-2.

Diner, Henry

WITHDRAWN: ,

Graves, George Ohristian-1.

SUSPENDED FO.R NON.PAYMENT OF DUES:

Ferson, James Alfred-1.

MANZANITA LODGE, No. 102.
North San Juan. NeYada County.

Stated Meetfags, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

CLAY LODGE, No. ·101.

OFFICERS•

Dutch Flat, Placer County.

Albert James Wood, Master,
John Trood, Senior Deacon,
William Dunuing, Senior Warden,
Frederick William Bank, Junior ])eacon,
Robert James McCullough, Jr. Warden, John Storer :McBride, Marshal.,
John German, 7Teaaurer,
Charles Schenermpa~, } Btewarda,
Patrick Henry Butler, Sem·etary,
Charles Sanford ame,
Joseph Gordon Dickson, 7.'yler.

Stated Meel.ings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a
Brigham Bliss McKenzie, Maater,
Adams Harrett, Senior ])eaooo,
Henry Herman Hndepohl, Sen. Warden, Horatio McDonald, Junior Deaoon,
William John Holmes, ./uni.or Warcten, Henry Va•s•I Martin, Marshal,
d
Hermann Rodolph Bndepohl, 7reasurer, Haus J ohoaon Schoo, l St
Isaac Tibbets 'Ooffin, Sem•etary,
Frank Lamprey,
f ewar 8 •
J ohn Murry Berry, Ohaplafo,
Thomas Pattinson, ~ler.

Pa.st Ma•ter11

John Storer McBride,
John Ambrose Seeley,

Charles Edward Lancaster,
John Trood,

Albert James Wood,
Oharleri Hanford Paine.

372

Beturna of the SuhordinaJ,e Lodges

(Aug. 1,

MASTER llASONlil :

BelJ, Francis Hiram
Bigelow, Ashley Smith
Billing, John
Bahring, Harry Herman
Bristow, William
Callaghan, Samnel
Chisholm, James
(.)lymo, Francis
CulJ, Henry
Onnard, James Henry

Farley, George Sidney
Nankervis, John
Fuller, Henry Bailey
Phillips, Reuben
Gilbert, Josiah Stephen
Qniok, John
Godfrey, Charles
Rosendale, Otto Emanue l
Harris, Thoma.a
Thoma.a, Riobard
Harris, Thomas Voel
Trood, William
Jones, William Arthnr (1st) Trezise, Henry •
Jones, William Arthnr (2d) Westerfteld,WilliamJackson
Mcintyre, JamesL ambert' n Williams, John
Morris, James Daughe rty Wood, Frank Merlon- -43.

ENTERE D A.PPREN TIOE:

WITHDR AWN:

Thomas, Cornelius ·. rbomas -1.

Rogers, William James- 1.

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ijornia.

1895.]

373

Sexton, Warren
Tople, Prince Lonie
Norton, Lewie Elliott
Simon, Louis Aaron
Wakeham, Luther
Ostroski, Samuel
Simon, Samuel Samuel
Ward, William
Parker, Ralzemond
Sparks, Ebeneze r Morrison White, Richard
Reece, Thomas White
Schiveley, Charles Henry Sprague , Frederick Adam Whittier, Merrill- 71.
Serviss, Thomas Wilson
ENTERE D APPREN TIOE :

FELLOW ORA.FT. :

Worth, George -1.

JllJorgan, William John--1 .
RESTOR ED:

Ambrose, Herbert George

Sexton, Warren -8.

Noack, Gustave Riobard

LEXI NGTO N LODG E, No. 104.
OROV ILLE LODG E, No. 103.

El Monte, Lo• ,\ngelH Coant:v .

Orovill e, Batte County .

Staud M eetings, StJturdav of or nut preudi ng Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, last Tuuday in each month.
OFFIC ERS•

Daniel Hilton, Meuler,
Herbert Worrall Smith, &enior Deacon,
Charles Dennis Dnnn, Senior Warden ,
William Crane Topping , Juntor Deacon,
William Hobert Dixon, Jun. Warden ,
- - - - - - , Mai·shal,
John Carleton Gray, '.lrea11.1rer,
Judson Adaniram Cleveland j
Henry Chapman Hills, Beorlff,ary,
Benjamin Lincoln McOoy, ' l Stewards,
John Konstantine Mitchell, Tyler.
Past Mastera •

Isaac Upham,
John Carlton Gray,
William Snmner Riggins,

Richard DeLancie,
Seth Sprague Boynton,

OFFICE RM1

Richard Qninn, Master,
David Irvin Ritter, Senim· Deacon,
Elkanoh O Parish, Senior Warden,
Oharlea Boward, .Junior Deacon,
Ge1lrge Washington Dobyns, Jun. Ward., Michael Osmond, Marshal
,
John Waterm an Barton, Trecuurer,
James B Cleminson, l St,ewardB,
John Theodore Haddox , Secretary,
John Scott Killian, I
George Dyer McCaige, Chaplain,
Thomas J. Wiggins, 7}/ler.
Paet Master a:

Uharles M Bell,
Adolph Oohn,
Donald Macfarlane.

MA.STER MASONS :

Ambrose, Herbert George Gale, John
Handley, Patrick Ogflby
Atchison, Thomas Andrew Gariepy , Leon Ludger
Hntchin s, Thomas Boyd
Baker, William Au&tin
Grace, Robert Patrick
James, Thoma.a Morgan
Ball, John Miller
Graham , George James
Johnson , Thomas
Bills, John H11rrison
Gray, James Chadwick
Jones, Albert Foat.er
Brooks, Frank
Green, Robert Moore
Kelly, Thomas Joseph
Bnllington, Perry Franklin Grubbs, John Monroe
Leonard, John Pierce
Butler, Oharles Frederic k Grnbbs, Richard Ohampion Longnec
ker, George H
Carndutf; Frank Ford
Grnbbs, William Jackson Marks, Joseph
OhappaiRe, Andre
Guidery, John
Martin, David Groves
Day,, Elias Warner
Helms, Houston
Maxwell, Jefferson Houston
Dyer, George Wa.shiugton Herrin, William James
Moseley, James Oscar
Friesleb en, Daniel Nathan Haber, Jamee
Noack, Gustave Richard

David Irvin Ritter,

J ease Bradfor d Gunnels.

MASTER MA.SONS :

Cave, Frederic k Parson
Farmer, Lonie
Bayes, Thomas Francis

Killian, J,awson Bedford
Lanp;stadter, Isaiah S
McKinney, Edwin

Packer, Martin Luther
Piuma, Joseph- 22.

FELLOW ORA.FT :

Bealle, Malcom Dent-1 .
· ENTERE D APPRENTIOEB:

Dodson, Claborn Bartell
Dodson, Elburt Jones

Gitana, Ca.stino

W>Alker, Franklin -4..

374

Returns Of the Subordinale Lodges . [Aug
. 11

To the Grand Lodge of OaZijornia.

1895.J

375

OW EN LOD GE, No. 108.

ARC ATA LOD GE, No. 106.
Arca u, Hum boldt Coun ty.

Scott' & RITe r, Siski you Coun ty.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month
.

Stated Meetinpa, Wetlnuday of or nezt prece
ding Full Moon.
OFFIC F.lR!i i1

OFFJ CERS 1

Thomas Devlin, Master,
Arthu r Seidell, Senio r Deaoon,
George Wilson Hnrps t, Senio r Warden, Vacla
v Ze.rnbe., Junio r Deaoon,
Nelson Baker Johan sen, Juni-Or Warden, Oetje
He~me.n Gerha rd Marke n, Marsh
a~
Wesley Whipple Stone , Treasur11r,
Jamee Ross, i 8
d1
Charles Smith, Secretary,
1
James Wilson, f ewar '
Isaac Collberg, Ohaplain,
William Nixon, 7)/1.er.
Paat Maate ra1

Arthu r Seidell,
Thome.a Devlin,

Irvine Levi Harps ter,
Oetje Herm an Gerba.rd Marken,
Melvin Parke r RobertB, Charl es Iee.ie.h Harps
t.
MASTER :MASONS :

Anderson, Jamee Peter
Falk, Noah H
Morrell, Frank Edward
Aurand, Frank Cle.tron
Falor, Frank Eugene
.Myers, Sylve ster
Baker, James Sarge nt
Franc ie, Josep h Marie
Nelson, Aaron Frede rick
Barbe r, Herbe rt Anson
Graet er, Luthe r Drury
Noe, Jesse Lafay ette
Berne, Jacob Weil
Green wald, Joline
Nye, Felix Peter
Boom, Stanley Cornelius Hansen, Peter Andre
as
Pe.tenaode, Amo1rOote.ve
Bowen, Gardn er Case
Harps t, Cornelius N
Preo"8, Theodore Reinhold
Brize.rd, Alexa nder
Harpst., John
Ray, Charles Benje.min
Brown, Edgar
He.wton, Rober t
Scott, George Murdick
Brown, Thomae McGinnis Honda, Bohemiel
Antonin Sherb urne, Benj. Franklin
Boll, John Clark
Bonde., John Pe.al
Spring , Obadiah Hill
Bull, John Clark, Jr.
Jackso n, Elisha Benjamin Stearn e, Georg
e Addison
Cbe.ndler,Edwe.rd Angostue Jacks on, Harry
Woodville Sterne , Berne.rd Frank
Chand ler, Geo. Washington Kemp , James
Stewa rt, Ade.m Hugh
Chiabolm, John °Benje.min Korbe ll, Josep h
Frank , Jr. Sudbr ock, Alber t
Deming, Byron Briggs
Marvin, George D
'fee.I, Charles Wellington
Emerson, '.l.'home.e Rotbb en Mcl,eod, John
Theer man, Henry Harm
Ericson, Aogoet William Menefee, Peter
Mason
Trneedell, Clilford Ambrose
Everding, Louie Charles
Monkman, John Francie
Ve.leeade, Benjamin
Falk, Charles Eugene
Moore, James McDonald Zehen doer, Georg
e-76.
Falk, Elijah
SUSPE NDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF

l>aviee, Jaspe r Newton

Ellie, Jamee Wardr ope
DIED :

Oe.ve, Richard Bren t-1.

DUES :

Moore , Henry -3.

Arthur Simon, Maater,
Benjamin Jacob s, Seni<Yr.Deao<>ft,
Ohe.rlea Herman Simon, Senior Warden, Willia
m John Steele, Junto r Deacon,
Hiram Dual Shear er, Junio r Warden,
De.n Ce.ldwell, Marlh al,
Green bory Anderson Hicks, Treaaur11r, Oliver
We.mer Goode.le,~ Steward•,
Eiisbe. Jacob s, Secretary,
Henry Spear McKinney,
Owen Willie.me, 7yler.
Paat Maat erat

Eroea t Angoat Zoellin,

Benje.min Jacob s,
Elisha Jacob s,

Arthu r Simon.

MAST ER :MASONS :

Aoetin, Timothy Dearborn Leduc, Joaep b
Barne.by
Botcher, William Thomae LiJideay, Jamee
Harrison
Garre tson, Job

Patek , Max
Tiokn er, Henry Obe.r tel-19 .

\

PAJ ARO LOD GE, No. 110.
Wata onfll le, Sant a Cruz Coun ty.

Stated Muti ng•, second Saturday in each

month.

OFFI CERS •

Frank lin Edwin Mauk, Miute r,
Henry Louis Webe r, Senior Deaoon,
Eugene C. Shave r, Senior Warden,
Alexa nder Sterlin g, Junio r Deacon,
Jollua Lee Borbeck, Junio r Ward m,
George Arthu r Trafto n, Marshal,
John Jacob Morey, Trea.ur11r,
Rober t Borland,
I Steioardll,
John Herbe rt McEwen, Secretary,
Step!Jeo William Coffman, f
John Allen Howa rd, TylM'.
Paat J!Jaat era •

James Water s,
John Franc ie Cox,
William George Hodson, Bela Sarge nt Andre
wa,
Alexa nder Barke r Chalmera,

George Wellington Sill,
Franklin Edwin Mank.

:MASTER MASONS'

Aldrich, David Metcalf
.lndln wood, Edward
Austin, Sande Frederick
Bixby , Aaron William
Bowman, George .Melville
Braeeell, Hans Peter

Brewjngton, Geo. Hamilton Chalmers, Wm.
Alexa nder
Brown, John Bernard
Olark , Edgar Lewis
Burbeck, William
Cleveland, Charles
Borland, Edward Grant
Oodige, Raffaele
Bnr!Rnd, William Henry
Condit, Amoe Wallace
Boraon, David Henry
Coope r, William Borton

376

Returns of the Subordinate LO<lges

LAug. 1,

Coartwright, William Henry Kilborn, Fred'k Aagostos Roose, Parker Sandy
Lane, Henry
Cox, Robert Benjamin
Seitz, George
Leland, Thomas
Delmere, Alexander
Storm, Peter
John
Frederick
Lennard,
Dengler, Philip
Thompson, Samuel Halleck
Morris, Moses
Dixie, Richard
Tooregney, Carlos
Dorn, Nicodemus Andrew J, Mynott, Elvin Farner
Trafton, John Edmond
Norris, James Alexander Trafton, William Arthor
Drew, Charles Angostns
Palmtag, Charles A
English, Felix Grandy
Trafton, Howard Valentine
Pearson, Thomas Cook
Fowler, Charles
Uren, Joseph R
Porter, John Thomas
Gagnon, Michael
Waters, Peter Kemp
Porter, Warren Revnolds Weeks, James Edmond
Hall, James Angostos
Rea, Charles Bert Harris, Isaac Wisner
West, Danforth
Hollingsberry, Frank Geo •. Rodgers, Wm. Donaldson White, James
Rodoni, Aquilino
Hodson, Mark Antony
Wilson, Wiiliam
Borsh, George Washington Rogers, Robert Ayton
Woo~, Abraham Chase
Rossi, Pasquale
.Jones, Allen Presbery
Wyckoff, Edward Francis
-83.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bergstein, Franz Wilhelm
Johnson, Lyman Beard

Maguire, Ge~rge
Oatman, Walton Frank

Ingham, James

Lewis, Alexander

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ijornia.

1895.]

377

Scroggs, Frederick William
Trimble, Isaac-6.

Reaves, David Morton
Lee, WeRley
Cassick, Barney
Roper, John Wesley
Lina, John
Davison, James
Schooler, William Henry
Linn, John, Jr.
Diena, Samuel Calvin
Shaw, Baker Ewing
Durham, Wm. Wellington Lian, WBirney
Shilling, John Stephen
Lothrop, Matthew Hale
Eliot, Wesley Stockwell
March, Charles Alexander Smith, Levi
Entler, Joseph Franklin
Spencer, Thomas Case
MoAnarlin , William
Garner, John Mortimer
Mclnto•h, Lewis Harrison Stansbury, Oscar
Gibson, Joseph Clyde
Stevens, Warren Charles
Means, Samuel Boyd
Gleeson, John Rodney
Thrower, John Osoar
Guynn, Pleasant Marion Mitchell, James Ewing
Montgomery, J. W.Bradford Thrower, Joseph Bennet
BanseD, Lauritz
Usher, William Henry
Haughton, Jae, Richardson Montgomery, Park
Moody, Stephen Prescott Warren, Edward .A.roher
Hegan, James
Watson, John N
Papst, Charles James
Henshaw, Park
Peake, William Humphrey Weston, Jubal
Hilliard, Marion
Wetherbee, Ira Alston
Holloway, James Thomas Perkins, Joseph Doan
White, Harry Darius
Peters, Pincus
Boyl, Jonas Marion
Peterson, Geo.Fred.Christ'nWilliams, William Richard
Jones, Ralph Taylor
Woods,Oharles Hnotington
Phillips, Richard
Jones, Samuel
Yoong, James-100.
Ralston, Robert Broce
Lausen, Henry Datlef

Libbey, James Lewis-3.

Reavis, David Morton-1.

DIED:

RESTORED:

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Woods, Andrew-4.

Reavis, William Andrew

Hibbard, Albert A
Boole, Edward

DIED:

Thorp, Willia~ Michael-I.

CHICO LODGE, No. 111.
Chico, Butte County.

Stated Meetings, Saturdav of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Harmon Mccargar, Master,
John Cardiff Daly, Senior Warden,
Emil Meybem, Junior Warden,
Charles Faulkner, 17-eawrer,
Gilbert Hart Taylor, Secretary.
Henry Hallet, Ohaplain,

Archibald Thompson Kerr, Ben. lJeaoon,
Charles Arnold Cunningham, .Tun.Deacon,
Walter Leroy Chandler, Marshal,
Thomas L Bohleoder, t StetD ds
ar '
f
Lee Bryan Guill,
William Leroy Bradley, TJ1ler.

Paat Mastera 1

Cyros Greenleaf Warren, William Henry Miller
Edward B Pond,
'
Edward l'illotson Reynolds, William Thomas,
William Henry Duren,
Augustus Harley Chapman, Sam'l Hunter Montgomery, James Madison Dagger,
Thomas Bicknell.
Jellerson Davis March,
John Rose Robinson,
Georga Miller,
MASTEll. MASONS :

Applegate, William James Boydston,James Knox Polk Clark, Oliver Lovell
Barnard, Timothy Henry Broyles, Adam Courtney Costar, Wllliam James
Batchelder, Hiram Treat Canfield, Engene Erastus Crail, Luke Dillard
Bell, Hagh Thomas
Carney, Geo. Washington Crew, Alexander Hill
Boncher, Josiah, Jr.
Crew, Henry William
Chaplin, Frank N

SUMMIT LODGE, No. 112.
Kni&'ht'a Ferry, Stanblaua County.

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Oharles Thomas Kennedy,Senior DeaCOtt,
George Thomas McCabe, Ma6ler,
William David Logan, Bllflior Warden, William Francis Bach, Junior Deacon,
Oharles Thomas Tullock, Junior Warden, Andrew Jackson Means, Marahal,
Francis Leonidas Grilfin, l Bteioarda
Frank Albert Morgan, Treawrer,
'
f
William Griffin,
Henry Brunton Pentland, Secretary,
J oeeph Lee Hooker, Tyler.
Paat Maateru

John Warner,
Andrew Jackson M~ans,

29

Joseph Lee Hocker,
David Franklin Edwards,

Charles Thomas Kennedy,,

•

378

Retu1'71.8 of the SubordinaJe Lodges

[Ang. 1,

1895.]

To the Grand Lotlge of Oa.Ufornia.

379

MASTER MASONS:

Beck, John
Crabtree, Mark Trafton
Bentley, Jeft"erson Daniel Qrew, Osmon 0
Brooke, Oicero Blackwell Gooch, James Lewis
Oarmlchael,David Whitfield Johnson, Thomas
Collins, Asa
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Lowe, Frederick Wiiiiam
Matthews, James
Blook, Jacob
Warner, Jamee-26.
WITHDRAWN:

FaeBBen, Arnold John-1.

MOUNT ZION LODGE, No. 114.
Grlilizl:v Flat. El Dorado County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday oj or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Bartlett, Allen Tabor-1.
DIED:

Lane, Andrew Jackson

Prowse, John Harvey-2.

OFFJCERS1

Moses Chandler Wheeler, Ma&er,
John Henry Foller, Senior Deacon,
Thomas Teesdale, Senicr Warden,
William Oole, Juni.or Deacon,
John Marion McClean, Junior Warden, Gabriel Werntz, Marsh.al,
Robert King Claibourne, 7reasurer,
Thomas Daley, . l Stewards
Samoel Aogostue Laine, Secretary,
Ruggiero Oarboni, r
'
Martin Beale, 'fYler.
Paat Maaters 1

EDEN LODGE, No. 113.

Moses Chandler Wheeler,

Joho Heory Foller,

San Leandro. Alameda County.

Robert King Claibooroe.

MASTER MABON :

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt succeeding Full Moon.

Wallenberg, Charles-12.

OFFICERS•

ENTERED APPREN'l'IOE. :

Hercoll'ls Andre Morin, Master,
Benjamin Franklin McDannel, Sr. IJeaoon,
Wm. Berry McKenzie, Senior Warden, Noah Thomas Sturtevant, Junior DeaC<Jft,
Brady Washington Marlin, Jun. Warden, Jorgen Jorgensen, Mar1hal,
• Benjamin Oowell Hawes, 7reasurer,
Mark Bletsoe Bulleo,
SleU1ard8,
Edmond Anderson Watkios, Seoretary,
Asael Benjamin Woodworth,
Albrekt Laurita Hansen, '.l}/IBr.

Meyers, Oeorge-1.

I

Paat Maatera:

Joseph Peter Dleves,
William John Landers,
Hercules Andre Morin,

John Fred'k ErostHopper,
AmziB Cary,

CONCORD LODGE; No. 117.
Andrew L Stone,
Ira Ham Bradshaw.

MASTER MASONS :

Armstrong, Thomas Charles Gray, Newton
Reid, Alexander Barr
Bescheloen, Jolios
Henrickson, Henry
Reid, Joho
Bilger, Frank Willlam
Henrickson, James
Roberts, Andrew Gove
Bjorkman, Aognst
Henrlcksoo, Neils
RoBB, lsaac Jennings
Black, Joho
Hill, Otis
Sharpe, Frank Beojamlo
l;loyce, Samnel Edward
Hollis, JB!lles Lyman
Shiman, John Lewis
Bradley, James Walter
Jackson, David
Slmoosen, Lonie
Oary, Tallcutt Patekio
Jamison, John William
Singleton, John
Cassidy, Jehn Alfred
Johnson, George
Smith, James Dale
Chaplin, Oharles Henry
Kelly, William
Smyth, Beary
Crabb, Allie Louis
Kiusell, Harry Searing
Stenzel, Fritz
Downie, George
Larsen, George
Stone, Egbert Barker
Drawbarn, Charles
Leland, Frank Milton
Tassel, Henry George
Driver, John
Macdonald, Edward Donald Teubert, Louis
DoBois, Sumner Victor
Marlin, Henry Bowers
Vivian, Godfrey
Jrerrera, Alonzo Antonio 111.oore, Albert Alfonso
Warren, William Wallace
Fleming, George
Palmer, Charles Edgar
Wilkie, Thomas B
Oates, Dawson David
Pimental, Francisco
Yooog, Willard Beory-72,
Gray, Benjamin Dinsmore
WITHDRAWN:

McClymoods, John William-1.

Sacramento, Sacramento County.

Stated Meetings, second Tuuday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

Michael Thomas Ooppersmith, Matter,
John Maurice Chapman, Senior IJeacon,
Albert Elgin Robinaon, Senior Warden, Albert Marshal Harrell, Juni.or IJeacon,
Louts William Matthias, Jun. Warden,
Lonie Oyros Schindler, Marsh.al,
John Gruhler, Trecuu.rer,
Rupert Meller,
l BtelDard.B,
William Henry Hevener, Secretary,
John William Charlesworth, f
Charles Titos Seavey, 'fY!er.
Past Maaters 1

William Henry Heveoer,
loho Whitelaw,
Samnel McDonald,
William KcLaogblio,
Samuel Howard Gerrish,

William Rowland Jones, Henry Aogust Heilbron,
Thomas Fox,
Edgar Barclay Carroll,
Harry Winans Carroll, · Albert De Montl?edyJohnson,
Joseph Davey,
Louis Cyrus Schlodler,
Eugene Joline Gregory, Michael Thomas Coppersmith.
' MASTER MASONS:

"1ezander, Beoj. Franklin Burnett, Henry Ashbell
Banta, James F.
Carroll, John Francis
Bowaher, Amos Luther
Caswell, WilliBm Averill
Brown, William z.
Chatfield, Thomas F
Buckley, John Joseph
Coooor, Richard Albert

Davis, George Gray
De Vallo, William Henry
Dnobar, Alexander
Dudenberry, Malon
Fairchild, Charles Herbert

380

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Platt, Philemoo Eli
Irvine, William John
Fischer, Henry
Powell, John
James, James Merrill
Gabrelli, Fiore
Schaefer, Peter
Gilmore, Robert McClelleo Jones, William
Jordan, Lother Campbell Schocke, Charles Aogost
Gregory, .Frank
Schroth Joh G
Joseph, Joseph Aaron
Groth, Michael
n eorge
'
.
G0 th . J 0 hn w·11·
Sheets, Oliver Hazzard Perry
Lang, Joseph
. 1 iam
rie,
Augustus
Fred'k
Haaselgreeo, W1llfam Henry Lichthardt, Geo.HeoryWm. Shepherd,
Smith, Alexander Miller
Longton, Henry
Hayton, Geo~ge Moses
Smith, Eli M
. Menke, .Anton
Herzog, Phlhp
Stephenson, George Hulbert
Miller, John Sanford
Hesson, Thomas Joseph
Trovla Balvatrove
Nelson, Donald James
Holzinger, Herman
Vicary'. George Balser
Nevis, Mannel Silva
Hornlein, Alvin Emil
Oldlleld, William Baggley Watkins, Riohard--77.
Hnghes, John Law
ENTERED APPRENTICE : .

To the ·Grand Lodge of California.

381

FIDELIT Y LODGE, No. 120.
San Franclaco, San Franclaco County,

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERSr

Emannel Sigfried Heller, BeniOr Deacon,
Benjamin Armer, Ma11ter,
Jacob George Leibold, SeniOr Warden, Max Goldman, Junior J)eaoon,
George Henry Myers, Marshal,
Phillipp Jacobovics, Junior Warden,
Joseph David Abrams, l stewards
Lewis Emaonel, 7rea11ui·er,
'
f
Moses Friedman,
Frederick Barry, Seoretary,
Mitchel Joseph Myers, 'l'y'/Br.
Paat Maatera:

Dnsean, John-I,

Louis Coho,
Henry Falkenstein,
M~odel Esberg,
J nlius Platshek,
Emanuel Emaoael,
Henry Williams,
Isaac Straasborger,

DIED:

Holzinger, George

1895.]

Yoong, William-2.

Milton Sidney Eisner,
Joseph Louis Armer,
Robert Day,
Gnstave Brenner,
Jacob Voorsanger,
Samuel Diokelsplel,
Andrew Milton Armer,

Beary Simon Manheim,
George Evans Clingman,
Leo1told Baer,
James Michael Ellis,
Ieidore Nathan Levy.
Philip Davie.

MASTER MASONS:

CLINTON LODGE, No. 119.
I1ro, Shasta Counsy.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERSr

William Goodall, Master,
Jaa. Whittington George, Sen. Wartfen,
Charles Wesley Richards, Jun. Ward.,
.
Alexander Leiter, 2Teasurer,
Charles Nelson Kingsbury, Secretary,
Thomas Henry Hart, Ohapkiin,

Elijah Maaon Dixon, SeniOr l>t!acon
Carl George Voss, Junior J>eaoon, '
Edward Loll Ballou, Marshal,
. .._
ThadinR Alonzo Jones, I St
Angus James Drynan, f eioar....,,
George Cortice Downer, 'lyler.

P aat Mastera:

Elijah Mason Dixon,
Charles Nelson King~bory,

Thadias Alonzo Jones,
Alexander Leiter,

George Curtice Downer,
l!.:d ward Loll Ballou.

MASTER MASONS :

Forman, George Marenos Weil, David
Berg, Robert
Cooningham,Rasmas Manford Lewis, James Knox Polk Willard, Charles Frederick
Pervier, Mervin Edward Willard, Geo. Kittridge
Eldridge, Millard Filmore
WITHDRAWN:

Strong, Jason Bance-I.

-2L

Fletcher, David Maas .
Classen, Adolph F. A.
Abrams, David
Fogel, George
Ackerm11n, Sam'l Seligman Claybargh. Moses
Frank, Morris Emaoael
Cohen, Jo8eph
• Agard, George Edward
Frankenberg, Joseph
Coho, Gabriel
Allenberg, Charles
Franklin, Max
Coho, Gerson
Bachman, Arthur
Freideorich, David
Colman, Morris
Baden, Samuel
Colson, Edw11rd Aagnstas Friedlander, Morris
Baruch, Frederick
Ftiedmaa, Max
Damm, Richard Oscar
Baaer, Moses
Friedmann, Samuel
Dinkelspiel, Emile
Banmano, Sigmund
Frohman, Henry
Dinkelspiel, Henry
Behrendt, Richard
Gambitz, Kady
Dinkelspiel, Henry 8
Bender, Noah Wilhelm
Berson, Gus. Paul Adolphe Dinkelspiel, Joseph Lionel Getlesoo, Harry
Berode, Johann Gottfried Diokelspiel, Joseph Samuel Getz, Joseph
Getz, Lonie
Dinkelspiel, J,oais Maier
Blaskower, Marks
Goldberg, Adolph
Edelman, Charles
Block, Abram
Goldberg, Joseph
Edwards, Dwight
Blom, Isidore
Goldberg, Simon Lipman
Einstein, Jacob
Bornstein, Morris Bello
Goldman, Isaac Wolf
BQskowitz, Charles Joseph Einstein, Morris
Goldwater, Michel
Elfelt, Joseph
Bowes, William Emette
Ellis, George Wentworth Goodman, Isidor
Braodeostein, Mayer
Gaggeoheim, David Joseph
Emmerling, John
Brooks, Max
Gntte, Isidor
Brown, Abraham Lincoln Eppinger, Jacob ·
Hambnrger, Moses Asher
Eppinger, Josnd
Brown, Bernard Charles
Hamilton, Robert
Erlanger, Simon
Brown, Isidor Irving
Hammond, Samnel Chester
Falk, Solomon
Brown, Morris
Featherstooh augh,Fraak C. Harris, Adolph
Brown, Nathan
Heineman, Max M
Fisher, Henry
Bryer, Joseph Leopold
Hermida, Augastas
Fisher, Oscar
Castello, Henry Charles
Heyman, Gustave
Fisher, William Everett
Cecil, John

382

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Heyman, Joline
Mayer, Oscar Joseph
Silverberg, Joseph 8
Hildebra ndt, William Che.a. Mayer, Solomon Joline
Silverberg. Simon
Hotfme.o, William Joseph McOre.y, Ohe.r!es Carroll Silverman,
Joseph
Hnfschmidt, Looi.a
McDevitt, De.uiel
Silverman, Moritz
Ickelheimer, Se.mnel
Moise.a.cs, Done.Id Cilshlng Simon, Charles Jo.cob
Jacobs, Isidor
Merzbe.ch, Felix Herman · Simon, Henry
;Jacobs, Julius
Miller, Isae.c
Simon, Siegfried
Jacobsen , Jo.cob Erioh
Moise, Philip Henry
Simon, Simon Israel
Joseph, Miehe.el Jo.mes
Morris, Theodore
Smith, Benje.min Pitt Griffin
Juda, Morris
MoBllo, John
Solomon, Joseph
Kahn, Samuel Sigmund
Ne.pthe.ly, Joseph
Solomon, Simon
Kammer er, George
Ne.tbe.n, Charles
Spitz, Jo.cob
Keiner, Herman
Nathe.a, Ise.ao
Stearns, Henry Otis
King, Jo.mes Loclos
Newge.s, Henry
Stern, Lonie
Knightl>, Joeeph Vine.I
Newme.n , Joseph
Stern, Sigmond
Koenig, Ferdinand
Newman , Simon
Stone, Marcus
Koehncke, Christian Henry Nielsen, Christian
Stone, Leon Daniel
Kohlberg, Manfred Selig Oberfelder, Tobie.a
Straus, Louis
Kohn, Ohe.rlee
Ottenhelmer, Henry Joeeph Stre.nes, Moses
Korn, Eugene
Peixotto, Edgar De.vis
Stre.oss,Samnel
Le.oher, Ise.e.c
Pollitz, Edward
Streeten, Jo.mes Morgan
Le.chme.n, Albert
Re.phe.el, Isidor
Tadich, Ivan Vincent
Laohme.n, Henry
Robins, George
Thorner, Theodore
Le.chman, Morris
Rosenbaum, Samuel Moses Thre.ne, Peter Ch. Lndwig
Latz, Benjamin
Rosener, Samnel
Tommereg, Andere Emil
Lees, Ieaie.h Wrigley
Rosenehlne, Leopold
Vooree.nger, Abraham Wolf
Levin, Isidor
Rosenehine, Matthi&a
We.lab, Riche.rd
Levy, Edward Julius
Rosenstein, Fritz
Wedel, John Michael
Levy, Felix Nathan
Rosenthal, Joseph
Wehle, Isaac
Levy, Henry
Rosenthal, Marcus
Weil, Leo
Levy, Isaac
Roth, Adolph Benjamin
WeiBsbein, Jo.cob
Levy, Me.x
Sachs, Henry
Weissbein, Joeeph
Lewis, William
Se.chs, Lippman n
Westheimer, John Fe~dln'd
Lindner, Marks J
Bache, Se.mnel Loni!!
White, Frank Edson
Lipman, Joseph
Sahlein, Moses
White. Robert Franklin
Lipman, Lonie
·saltleld, David
White, Wille.rd Olande
Loewe, Joseph Me.orice
Bchlingme.n, John Fred
Wigmore, James
Marcus, Lonie Ferdinand Schmidt, Me.orice
Wille.rd, Me.uric'e
Marke, Henry
Schoenfeld, Jacob
Winter, John Frederick
.Marke, Mannheim
Scholtz, Jo.cob Joline
Wise, Henry
Marke, Samuel Morris
Schweitzer, Morris
Wolf, Jacob William
Mayer, Me.x
Seelige9hn, Selig Me.x
Wormser, Lonie
Mayer, Morrie
Seligson, Miehe.el
Znckerme.n, Adolph-24.7.
FELLOW CRAFTS :

Ge.Jle.nd, Ralph

Jaeger, Frederick Charles

Wessenberg, David Weat-S.

He.oh, Charles Conrad
Meyer, Be.muel Charles

Robinson, Lonie .A
Slmpson,Abraham David-6 .

WITHDRA WN:

Hirechfeld, Emil
Koch, Henry.

Le.ndeoker, Se.Uy David

To the Grand Lod,ge of California.

383

SUSPEND ED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Quinn, John Claude- ].
DIED:

:Manheim, George Jo.mes

Zacharias, Hyman- S.

Steinhar t, William

IONIC LODG E, ~o. 121.
Iowa HUI, Placer County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICE RS•

John Quincy Ackerman, Master,
John Franklin Yoder, ~ior Dea.eon,
Wm. John Theodore Christian , Sen. War. Willis Fish Goold, Junior
Deacon,
Aqnlllino Rodini, Junior Warden,
William Henry Wiesler, Mar1hal,
Daniel A. Rneaell, Treasurer,
James Monroe Jacobs, l steuiarda,
John Mill, Beareta.ry,
Garrett Booih,
f
Chester Hackett, 7'1Zer.
William Green Wolfe,
Edward George Spencer,

l."aat Maaten t
William Nelson Bissett,

John Quincy Ackerman.

MASTER MASONS:

Armstrong, William Isaiah Kinsey, Frank Joseph
Leighton , Angnatns Lord
Brown, Rossell Warren
Me.kine, William Swift
Chinn, Jamee Weeks
Eddioge, George Franklin McGraw , Dennis Joeeph
Hobson, John Beaagard e Mitchell, Edward

Nester, Benjamin Franklin
Papa, John
Robinson, Thomas
Stemple, Henry
Williamson, George Thomaa
-29.

RESTORE D:

Spencer, Edward George- 1.

ALAM O LODG E, No. 122.
Walnut Creek, Contra Coeta County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICE RSt

ENTERED APPBENTIOEB :

Friee, William
'Goldstein, Sanford Lewie

1895.]

Mack, Adolph-4 ..

Walter Hicka Biggs, Mo..ter,
Corodon Bhe.rp, Senior Dea.coo,
GeorgeJ. Smith, Senior Warden,
Winfield Scott Burpee, Junior Deacon,
Geo. Wuhingt on McPbeeters, Jun. War., - - - - , Mar•hal,
Arth!Jr Williams, 2)-easurer,
. Myron Ward Hall,
l Stewardl,
lamee Marlon Daley, Secretary,
Ellphe.let Charlee Palmer, r
- - - - - - , Ty'ler.

·'

384

Retu'N'l.8 of the Stibordi'Mie Lodges

(Aug. 1,

Pa&t Masters 1

Corodon Sharp,
Myron Ward Hall,
Jnstne :Michael Hinman,

Lewie Flanders Sherbnrue ,
Albert Sherbnrne,
Jamee Marion Daley,

Farmer Sanford,
Walter Hicks Biggs.

MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, Robert Lawrence Hill, Jamee D
Bartola, David John
Lynch, Wllliam
Booth, Robert Frederick McCollongh, Daniel
Caldwell, David Alexander McKean, William Gilee
Daily, Walter F.
Ridgeway, Fre.zier
Gamble, Samael
Shreve, Frederick
Gambe, Ferdinand
Simeae, John
Graham, Engene Welling Stolz, John
Heron, John M.axwell

Stow, James :Marion
Sydnor, Alfred Wyatt
Tinnin, Francis Marlon
Tinnin, William Jefferson
Walker, James Tormey
Whitten, Charles Lincoln
Wiley, George
Willi11ms; J ohn-38.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Anderson, Rasmus
ENTERED APPRENT ICE:

Harrison, George Russell Nichols. Ja~. Francis Wood Somee, Jamee
Okeen, .H iram
Swisher, James Riley
Joy, W1·11·1am H enry
Kimball, Charles Lloyd
Oitmer, Henry Christian
Terry, James William
King, Jesse
Palmer, Francis Warren
Truett, John Richmond
Laymance, Isaac Carlin . Paesalacqoa1 Andrew
Van Allen William
Legh, Robert Percy
Petray, Ransom Alexander Wall. Henry Chesley
Long, George Washington Phillipe, Duvall Drake
Waltel'll', Solomon
Lorenzini Domenico
Raymond, Charles Francis Warner, Alex. La Fayette
Jlathews.'Chas. Wseley, Sr. Rickman, James Louis
Warren, William Porter
.llathews, John Wesley
Roemer, Ernest Edward
Wilcox, George Paton
Meyer, Loots
Ro888co, Giovani
Yoong, John Shaw
Moreland, Wi111am Walter Seawell, Jamee William
Yoong, .llichael-6 9.
Mothorn, David Henry
Shriver, Nathan
SUtlPENDED FOR NON·PAD IENT OP DUES:

Stone, John Henry-2.

Brown, Henry Rolf

Daley, J&111es Edwin-2.

DllID:

Gibson, Sllas William-1 .

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Leighton, Fr&nk Walla~l.

385

To the <h'a'fld Lo<l,i;e of California.

1895.]

Lynch, William F .-1.
DIED:

Ooben, :Michael

Hnntlngton, Josiah Simpson

Hook, Walter Engene-3 .

TABLE MOUN TAIN LODGE , No. 124.
Cherokee , Butte County,

Stated Meetings, Tuuday oj or n&d preceding Full Moon.

SOTOY OME LODGE , No. 123.
Bealdabu ra-, Sonoma Count7.

Stated Muting8 , Saturday nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER S1

Edward Sinton Gray, Master,
Jobn Leavitt Bates, Benlor Deacon,
Edward M.olloy Norton, Senior Warden, William Everette Nye, Junior Deacon,
George H Warfield, Junior Warden,
Mathiae Raabe, Marshal,
George :Miller, Trea.-urer,
Charles Wesley Mathews, Jr., l BtewardB,
John Young, Secretary,
John Morrow Thompson,
f
- - - - - - , Ohapla.in,
Edward Granville Ball, iyier.
Pa•t Maaters•

Jamee Shadrich Bell,
Alexander Bill Stites,
John Young,

William Henry Barnes,
Martin Van Buren Hooten,
Mathias Raabe,
Edward Sinton Gray.
James Thomas :McNamara,

Bidwell, John
Board, William
Oake, Evart Pierce
Co!man, Nelson Bradley
Cox, Nathan Henry

Doane, Lafayette Wllliam
Ellis, Leander Griffith
Fenno, Jamee Edson
Fitzgerald, Mathew
Gale, Lester Lodrick

MASTER MASONS:

Gibson, Thomas Jellerson
Gobbi, Barney
Goddard, Daniel Nevada
Goldstein, Henry
Hall, Maitland Grant

OFFICER S I

William James, Mas~.
Thomas Francis Malgan, Senior l>eaco'I,
George Medanich, Bl!nior Warden,
John Blomme, Junior Deacoo,
Jamee Alexander Campbell, Jun. Warden, Jamee Allen Hufford, Marshal,
Jenkin Morgan, Treasurer,
David Herbert Williams, Btetoard.a,
Henry Franklin Bader, Bearelary,
John Newton Holford,
Peter Wllliam Jones, ~ler.

l

Paat Muten•

Charles Fayette Lott,
Lonie Goodday,
.
Ieaac Warren Kitchen,

William James,
Henry Caldwell White,

.Andrews, Robert D
Bader, Charles William
Burt, Aaron
Obivell, Thomae Henry
Oobn, Levi
Corv, Francie Marion
Davie, Jbseph Borst
Dolan, Martin John
Edmonds, John
Evans, John O
Feqoa, George Hale
Grant, Lincoln ffiysses

Hanson, Andrew Mathias North, Edward Byron
Hartson, Charles Gardiner Parsons, Edward
Patterson, Jacob
Hengy, William Sinclair
Powers, Robert Sutherland .
Hollob, Frank
Smith, David Franklin
Jones, William Peter
Smith, David Walter
Jorgensen , Peter Alex.
Sovereign, Geo. Whitefield
Lee, Levi Woodberry
Tate, Frank Raymond
Mack, William Edward
Tegronde, Hermann
Mellon, William James
Vera, Joseph Noma
Nlseon, Asmus
North, Davie Beauregard Whitelaw, Jolin Frederick

30

Richard Henry Jones,
Lester Lewellyn Myers.

MASTER MASON8 :

-JSl.

•

386

Returns of the Subordirwle LorJge,s

[Aug. 1,

To the Grarui .Lod{/e of OaU/ornia.

1895.]

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUEB:

Rowe, Jamee

Pence, Watt Manoah

Williams, John Davld-S.

DmD:

387

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

M:oFayden, Allen
Olsen, Carl Victor

Bauer, Vaeelar
Hamilton, John

Royal, John Edward-6.

DIED:

Waldeyer, Charles-1.
Mathews, Elisha Franklin

Walker, John-2:

•

LA FAYETTE LODGE, No. 126.

B;,ERMANN LODGE, No. 127.

Seb&•topoJ. Sonoma County.

San Francboo, San Franoboo County.

Sta~d Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

St~d M~etings,

OFFICERS1

OFFICERS:

William Goodman Rickard,8Bnior Deacon,
Charles Kimble, Mcuter,
Otis Allen, Junior lJeaoon,
George Otis Allen, Senior Waraen,
William Edward Oox, Junior Warden, Thomaa Garrett Wilton, Mar8hal
Edwin Taft Monroe Horlbot, l '
Simon Graham, 1\-etuurer,
f SteUJards,
Joseph Henry Perrine Morris, Seuretary, John Benjamin Loser,
David Seeley, Tyler.
James Gregson, Ohaplain,

Richard Sternitzky, Senior Deaaon,
John Fischer, Master,
Carl Wilhelm Heidborn, Jun. Deaoon,
Oostav ·Carl Beckh, Senior War~.
Riohard Emil Louis Munk, Jil.n. Wat•d., Louis Zeise, Marshal,
l" Stetaards
Robert Langer,
Gustav Burgio, 7reaaurer,
'
Henry Sebastian Krieg, f
Ladwig Scbomaober, Secretary,
Herman Schoene, Tyler.

P&•t Ma•ter• 1

James P Gannon,
Thomae Garrett Wilton,
Harry Bollen Morris,

Paut Maaters 1

Henry Thompson Tacker,
Louis V. Hardenburgh Howell,
Wm. Goodman Rickard,

Charles Borroughs,
Charles Kimble.

MASTER MASONS :

Ross, Jamee Wallace
Baxter, Samuel Emanuel Hoot, Joseph Hancock
RoBB, Kemp L
Jewett, George Enoch
Beacon, Thomas
Boes, Loseon
Johnson, Oharlee
Broner, Daniel
Roe&, Wllliam Danforth
Libby, George Wilfred
Borroughs, David
McGuire, William Pleaaant Sanborn, George Newell
Oarlson, Peter John
Sandmayr, MathiBB
Miller, Ira
Oline, John Wesley
Scammon, Charles Melville
Monroe, Walter Wavard
Cody, Mathew
Schmieg, Philip
Oliver, Charles
Cottlni, Peter
Smith, Joseph
Oliver, William Henry
Coy, Charles Scott
Solomon, Charles
Osborn, Alexander
Deaa, William Blamyer
Speller, Charles George
Ragle, Alexander
Ewing, Lorr McDonald
Stran88, David
Ray, Barzillai
Goldberg, Nathan
Winkler, Clayton-67.
Boss, Fernando Elmer
Hamilton, John
Huntley, Geo. Washington
FELLOW CRAFT :

Hayden, Enoch Weeton-1.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Smith, John Kinder

first Monday in each month.

Williams, Reoben-2.

RESTORED:

WITHDRAWN:

Hamilton, John-I.

Spangler, Oyrne Asbury-I.

Adolph Theo. Ebre"nberg,
Oharlee Emil Hausen,
Henry Kenitzer ,

Ralph de Clairmont,
Carl Emil Rohte,
Ladwig Schnmacber,

Henry Geilfose,
Lonie Moller,
J oho Fischer.

MASTER MASONS :

Oebere, Edward Richard Kobler, William
Addicks, John Henry
Korbel, Franz
Gengnagel, Jacob
All'olter, Joseph
Krieg, Anton
Glein, Oarlos Franz
Atzerotb, Edlef
Lohse, Nicholas
Habenicht, Frit.z
Baader, John
~ocheinger, Geo. Heinrich
Haoh, Oar!
Bahrs, George Henry
Li1tgens, John
&.rkhaos. Fred'k Wiiiiam Hagemann, Fritz, Jr.
Lux, Frank Antoin
Bakios, Jacob
Bauch, Peter George
Martin, Adam
Harms, George
Bauer, John Christian
Maurer, Leo
Blucher, Georg Heinrich Heinetadt, Peter
Meinert, Hermann
Hellberg, Henry
Dannheimer, Lonie
Mentz, Frederick
Herold, Rodolph, Jr.
Dierks, Theodore
Mittelstaedt, Eugene
Hess, Joseph
Ebbinghaoeen, Henry
Eggers, George Heinrich Hildebrandt, Obarlee Henry Mocker, William
Offerman, Georg Heinrich
Janke, Johann Gottlieb
Emmrich, Ernst
Pla.11emann, Henry
Joos, George
Fisoher, Franz Xaver
Quadt, John
Jordan, Rudolf
Fi1her, John Henry, Jr.
Rapp, John
foerater,Conetaotine E. A. Kahrs, Gerhard
Renz, John
Klaassen, Heinrich
Predericke, Joseph
Richter, William Henry
Klatt, Ferdinand
Pri\sch, Emil
Rosenbaum, Friedrich Hein
Kleiler, Pao!
Foendeliog, Jolios
Rostemeyer, Wilhelm Joe.
Knop, Henry
Gail, Balthee (}

388

Returns of the Btibordinate Lodge8

[Aug. 1, .

Sadler, Hermann Joline
Sonne, Herman Theodor
VonBergen, A.ugast H. W.
Schaertzer, John Adolph Speidel, Adolph Friodrich Vorrath, Andreas Heinrich
Schaumllilfel, Wilhelm
Sternfeld, Moritz
Vorrath, Heinrich
Schernstein, Karl
Sternitzky, Robt. Reinhold Waizman, Max
Schiller, Charles Friedrich Struven, John
WRnuenmacher, Robert
Schoenewald, George
Strttwing, Johann Hermann Wegener, William Berggren
Schoening, Otto
Sylvester, Henry, Jr.
. Westphal, Peter
Schulte, John 'Jerhard Wm. Trantner, Charles
Wolters, George
Schuman, Carl
Tttrk, Christoph
Wolters, Heinrich
Schttssler, Hermann F. A. Vogel, Carl
Zwieg, Hermann-113.
Schwarz, Karl Aognst
Volkman, Carl Moritz
FELLOW CRAFTS:

Remensperger, Ulrich

Wassmann, Hermann-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Rode, Christian Bernard-I.
WITHDRAWN:

Enricht, Lonie

Schunr, Hermann-2.
RESTORED:

Enrioht, Lonie-I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON°PAYMENT OF DUES :

Hadeler, Johann Diedrich

Schneider, Samuel

Steinbach, Oscar-3.

1895.J

'Io the Gra:OO. Lodge of OaJ,ifomia.

389

MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, David Oscar
Floornoy, Wm. Venable
Parker, Basil Gaither
Bacon, Fielding
Frankenau, Max
Patterson,Thomas Jetierson
Baird, Benjamin Morgan Fodge, Edmond Jones
Patton, Myron Houston
Baker, Edgar E
Fudge, William Barrington Pendola, Beneditto
Berry, Hugh Rier
Glasscock, Alpha Hayden Prothers, Jerome
Braverman, MRx
Guggenheim, Leon
Pogne, James Wm. Centre
Calhoun, Milo Adam
Hall, Albon Eugene
Quinn, Henry
Callison, John W
Hammond, William Hall
Rhoades, John Livingston
Callison, Robert Henry . Harter, Isaac Munroe
Rockweil, Henry Sheldon
Chatten, Richard
Hansch, Christian
Russeil, Keeler
Ohatten, Thomae
Hawkins, Rufus Morgan
Seligman, Louis
Combs, Fielding Alexander Hirschfeld, Lonie
Smith, Seth
Oonzzens, Wm. Jacqaenay Houston, James
Spear, Jacob Lemmon
Cox, Edward Theodore
Hunsaker, A.lien
Spier, Joseph
Cranston, Floyd Oole
Hunsaker, Henry
Stenhen, Zane
Crowley Arth or
J ordao, J oho Francis
Stoltz, Victor
Cross O~car R
Levis, Leon
Stoneman, Finis Ewing
Crowiey, Green Berry
Locey, Abram Taylor
Thomas, Walter Franklin
Cortis William Moses
McDonald, Lnke
Weathers, Beoj. Franklin
Cotler: Leonard, Jr.
!,le V11agh, Ed ward Erastus Wells, Morgan James
Duckwall Simon Weaver Mitchell, Jay E.
Williams, John Wesley
Edwards: Duncan M.
Murphy, Charles Henry
Wilson, John W
Ellis, William Josiah
Overall, Daniel Griffith
Wilson, Willard M.-86.
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Conneil, William J,
Jerusalem, Henry

Johnson, John Sal

Kinkier, Charles H-4.

RESTORED:

Houston, James

Stoneman, Finis Ewing-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

VISALIA LODGE, No. 128.

Edmiston, Allen McDougall Morrie, James Burton
Hedgepeth, Joel
Pease, Edwin R

Rogers, .Joseph
Smith, Geo. Washington-6.

Vl11&lla, Tulare County.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Daniel McFadzeon, Master,
William Kettner, liflnwr Deacon,
Wheaton Andrew Gray, Benfor Warden, Frank Ang. Th!lmpson, Junior DeacOft,
William Gaillard Dozier, Junfor Warden, Aogostus Weishar, Marahal,
James Edward Denny, Treaaurer,
Edward McDonald Graham }
J osep h Cl arence Ward, Seoretary,
. Parker,
' Stewarda'
George Alvia
- - - - , Ohaplain,
Freedom Moulton Rice, Tyler.
Paat Jtfa1tera 1

Elias Jacob,
Robert Ohidley Broder,
John Tooh;y,

Joseph Clarence Ward,
George Alvia Parker,
William B Wailaoe,

Edward Harrison Miles,
John Cornelios Goad.

NICOLAUS LODGE, No. 129.
WheaUand, Yuba County.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

John Steinemao, Mallter,
Lynn Morton Justis, Senior Warden,
William Brice Attkisson, Jun. Warden,
Thomas Hiram Thomas, '.freatrurer,
J oho Frederick Baun, Beoretary,

-

- - - - , Ohaplain,

Frank Willis Anderson, Senior Deacon,
John Purcell, Junior Deacon,
Lewis Melton, Marshal,

-- -- --•

l stewards,

Jo~.Miscal Oarrington Jasper, I
James Polk Kesner, Ty'ler.

390

Returns of the Su.bordi~e Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of California.

Paat lllaaten1

Campbell Polson Berry,
Jos. Easton Hollingshead,
Simon Wolf,

391

Pa•t Maaten:

Lewis Melton,
Frank Kirshner,
Jos• .Miscal Carrington Jasper,

James Polk Kesner,
John Steioemao.

MASTER MABoNS :

Abramson, David
Howlett, Jobo Marion
Roddao, David Farris
Ao~ersoo, George Lee.oder Holfaker, Anthony
Roddao, Bogh
Hatchiosoo, Perkins Laf'tte Samuel, Moses
Bennett, Lemuel Jones
Berry, James HcCoooell
Jasper, William George
Skinner, Archibald
Landis, James Frederick Sowell, John Amos
Berry, Rafus Albert
Berry, Rufus Cowen
Landis, John
Speidel, Samael David
McCurry, Lewis Waters
Stoddard, Cyrus
Bevan, Thomas Edward
Brewer, William
MoCorry, Samuel Sevier
Stratton, George Wilson
Thomas, Loais Evans
Brown, Ernest Wilmot
McFee, William James
Olick, Daniel
Morrison, Hagh
Thomas, William Henry
Dalbey, Joseph Boryhill
Neiro.eyer, Harry Albert
Uhler, William David
Fraser, Daniel
Nelmes, George Frederick Waddell; Charles David
Glazier, Frederick
Osirom, Daniel Aogastus Whiting, Herbert Brice
Wilkins, James Calbert.son
Grant, Oharles Fitch
Oyster, William M
Haile, Henry
Pincas, Emil
Wilson, Thomas Jelfersoo
Rhinehart, William Rafus Wilson, William Clinton
Haven, Elisha
Hicks, James .Martin
Riechers, Aagostus
Wood, Samuel David-66.
Holman, Joel
FELLOW ORAFT :

John Chatten Thompson, J oho Booth Lillie,
John Newton Woods,
Blakely Robert Woods,
Benj. Franklin Langford, Joshaa Wiltse,
Thomas Robeson Barkett, Amos Amsoo McOlellaod,
.iames Lawrence Hutson,

William Wilson Haren,
Erastus Nelson Foote,
Samuel Eikeobary Latta,
Edward Rees Thompson.

MASTER lllASONS:

Anderson, George William .Hart, Edward Baker
Millis, William Lindsey
Ashley, Frank Henry
Hastings, Hervey Le Roy Misener, Norman Samoer
Heodersoo,;Wnliam Woods Newton, Cyrus Brownlee
Ashley, George Henry
Beckman, Henry
Hickey, John Hurd
Ogden, Henry Thomas
Beckwith, Charles Marion Holmes, James William
Parker, Alfred Hoard
Blo.ckley, James
House, Mercer Ward
Piette, Thomas
Brom!, Moses
Honskeo, George
Ratledge. Edward Gale.spa
Oaldwell, James Thomas
Houskeo George Edwin Smith, Oharles Edward
Oarter, William
Johnson.' William Horton Van Gelder, Morris
Corell, William
J ohosoo, William N athao Vickerson, Joseph Warren
Jones, George Washiogt.oo Williams, William Henry
De Vries, .Marion
Favioger, George
Kirkland, Robert
Woods, Albert James-68.
Fnlcher, William Henry
.Mcintosh, Edwin Jonathan
'ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Hagle, John
Keen, Camden Warren

Ray, David Thomas

Ray, Doo--4,

WITHDRAWN:

Hansen; Iogwer Sophias-I.

Williamson, James Emery-I.

ENTERED APPRENTIOES :

Beck, Herman Hansen

Hicks, Stephen Dougla-9.
RESTORED:

Dalbey, Joseph Buryhill
WITHDRAWN:

Wellmau, George M:errill-1.

Skinner, Archibald-9,
SUBPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES :

Harris, Thome.a Raokio-1.

SINCERITY LODGE, No. 132.
Taylorville, Pluln&8 County.

DIED :

Chapman, Thomas

Hedges, Wllliam Arthur

Oakley, Amasa Wilder-3.

Stated Meeting11, Saturday oj or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

WOODBRIDGE LODGE, No. 131.
Woodbrtdee, San Joaquin County.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.

Thomas Henry Trezise, Mamer,
William Price Boyden, Senter Deacon,
John .Manson MerrileeP, Senior Warden, Joseph Williams, Junior Deacon,
Thomas McRorie, Junior Warden,
Frank Kruger, Marshal,
John Wardlow, 7'reaaurer,
William Bennet Morton,} Stewardl,
Ooroelius I. Groot, Secretary,
William Flynn,
Joseph Edward Remick, 7!11.er.
Past Maaten:

Hagh McOatcheon,

OFFICERS1

John Braly Cory, Master,
George William Langford, Sen. Deacon.
Charles Lewis Newton, Sen.;,or Warden, Theodore Henry Beckman, Jun.Deacon,
Edward Hendryx Hemphill, Jr. Ward., Thomas Robeson Barkett, Marlhal,
John Chatten Thompson, Tre<lsurer,
William Wilson Haroo, l SUit di
.Moses Dancao Alex'der Steen, Sear~tary, James H enry Sargent, f
car '
Amoa Amson .McClelland, 7l1ler.

Thomas Henry Tre11ise.
MASTER MASONS :

Blough, William
Bonning, James Henry
Bnrge, James Patterson

Roeckers, William
France, William
Helper, Charles Y
Smith, Erastus Powell-20.
Langrehr, Henry Christian

392

Returns of the Subordinate Lo<lges

[Aug. 1,

393

'Po the Gra1.d Lodge of California

1895.J

MAl:!TER MASONS:

YOSEMITE LODGE, No. 133.
Coaltervtlle, Marlpoaa Coantv.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS1

Samnel Benjamin Fergoson, Master,
Carlton Davidson, Senior Deacon,
Charles Wagner, Senior Warden,
Oliver Fisk, Junior Deaoon,
Frank Herbeck, JunW,. Warden,
- - - - - - , Marsh.al,
Daniel Wagner, Treaeurer,
- - - - - , t Sf,erD d
8
Benjamin Franklin Morris, Secretary,
- - - - --, f
ar: '
John Battista Cella, Tyler.
Past Ma.ten 1

Carlton Davidson,
Daniel Wagner,

Benjamin Franklin Morris,

Samuel Benjamin Fergnson.

Atwater, Henry
Hobett, Joseph Nick.,rson Neilsen, Ole
Blom, Moses
Jewell, Reoben Watson
Petrie, Thomas Lawrence
Buckingham, Thom!IB Hugh Johnson, Washington
Price, WiJliam Henry
Cargill, Pardon
Koppicus, Dodley William Robinson, Jonat'n McNeill
Koshland, William
Rogers, James Roe
Davis, Isaac Franci~
Dellinger, Ambrose Craig Lawrence, William Edward Shirley, Hopkins Turner
Eversole, James
Lindsley, Albert Wheeler Sponsler, Alanson Chandler
Fisher, Edward
Long, Alexander Reed
Stevenson, Charles Albert
Frame, George
Loomis, Obarles Tucker
Stevenson, George Bush
Frazer, John Robert
Losee, Charles Henry
Stevenson, George Maupin
Gates, Jamee Walker
McOlay, Samoel Ralph
Van De Venter, Fred'k Shaw
Hacke, Frederick Henry Merchant, John Baptist
Wells, Jobn Netf
Haggerty, John Jamee
Miller, Meredith Raines
Wilson, Thomas Stanly-63.
Hewitt, Samuel Snmner
Morris, William Henry
FELLOW ORAFTS:

Herold, Benedett Tolever

MASTER MABON:

Walters, Edward Andrew-9.

,Noel, William Henry-1.

FELLOW CR.U'T :

Allen, John Joseph-1.

WITHDRAWN:

Bnck, Charles Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Thompson, Frederick Nlssen-1.

Neil, Charles-3,

Marshall, James
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Moore, !Stephen Walter-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Stice, Henry Peter

Willis, William Hope-2.
DIED:

Back, Leonard William-L

V AOAVILLE LODGE, No. 184.
Vaca-rllle, Solano County.

VALLE~

Stated Meetings, Friday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

George Frederick Wooderson, Master, William Henry Buck, Senior Deacon,
Frank Benjamin McKevitt, ~en. Warden, James Warren Stitt, Jun(or Deaoon,
Charles Henry Ball, Junwr Warden,
Thomas Kowanda, Marsh.al,
Henry Hatfield Chittenden, '.freasurer, Frank Herbert Bnck, t St
d8
J oho Monroe Arnold, Seuretary,
Thomas Lee Gates, f ewar: '
. Ingalls Kenny Book, Ohaplain,
George Adelbert Powers, Tyler.
Paat Ma&ten:

Edward Robinson Thurber, Andrew Vincent Stevenson, William Boyd Parker,
Henry Eversole,
Ingalls Kenny Buck,
Jesse S Cunningham,
James Alvin Webster,
Lonie Napbtaly Davidson, John Monroe Arnold,
Charles Smith.
Joseph Abraham Coller, Jacob Blom,
Geo. Frederick Wooderson, Frank Benjamin MoKeviU,

LODGl!l, No. 135.

Linden, San Joaquin Coanty.

Stated Meetings, Tueaday of or nezt preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS:

David William Keiver, Malter,
Edward Freeman Davis, Senior Deacan,
David Bryson, Senior Warden,
- - - - - - , Junwr beacon,
Tho0111S Trebil Waeley, Junior Warden, - - - - - - , Marshal,
William Henry Sheets, 7reaaurer,
_-_-- · , t SteUJards,
Jamee Wasley, Seare,ary,
f
Wayne ThomlL!l, Tyler.
·
Paet Maatera 1

Thomas Trebil Waaley,
1'athaniel Siggoo Hauold,
.Jarne1 Waaley,

31

David William Keiver,
Haller Ooventry Frost,

Andie Lester Bonham,
John Calhoun Reid.

394

RetuNUJ of the Subordinate Lod,ges

[Aug. 1,

. MASTER MASONS:

Brooke, Thomas Jefferson Miner, Amstard Early
Owen, Henry Taylor
Canavan, Edward
Owen, James Rotberford
Dyke, Ozro David
Owen, Walter James
Long, Elias Oscar
Peyton, Artimns
Martin, David Patten
McCausland, James Audley Pearson, Stith Allen
Miller, Richard Buchanan

Perryman, Charles
Rieb, Arthur Henry
Russell, William Henry
Torner, William Tbomaa
Wall, Thomas, Jr.
Wheeler, Tbomas-30.
WITHDRAWN:
Fitzgerald, Phillip-1.

ENTERED APPRE:NTlCE :

Benck, Edward-I.

PACIFIC LODGE, No. 136.
San Frano1-, San Franelno Coanty.

Stated Meetings, first Tuuday in w.ch month.
OFFICERS s

Robert McFarland Doble, Senior Deacon,
Martin Jones, ,')[aster,
Almond Raleigh Morrow, Sen. Warden, James Alexander Christie, Jun. Deacon,
John Coleman Terry, Marshal,
George Haas, Junior Warden,
t
John Fitzmaurice Kennedy, '.lh!asurer, William Giles Qoiolio,
Andrew William Livingston, f Stewards,
George Peoliogtoo, Secretary,
Philip Riegelhaupt, Tyler.
Pa•t Ma11ter111

Thomas Peoliogton,
Thomas Anderson,
James Ross Carrick,
George Peolington,
·John Fitzmaurice Kennedy, William Harvey Edwards,
Ch>Lrles James King,
George Leviston,
Moubray Robert Dnndas,
Joseph Peter Treanor,
James Wright Ande~aon , George Mairs Perine,
W't.lker Coleman Graves,
Philip D Code,
James Thomas Hamilton,
Joseph Oliver Jephson,

Henry Olasaeo,
Mark Levinsky,
James Washington Reppey,
Alexander Thom,
Nathan Crooker,
David Arnold D'Ancona,
Samuel Zemanaky,
Robert Williamson Good.

MASTER MASONS:

Adelstein, Samuel
Altshnler, Levi
Anderson, J obn
Andrews, Frank Kellogg
Armitage,William Henry
Arnold, Cyrus Mills
Arnold, Lonie Edgar
Arnold, Thomas Cook
Aachheim, Israel Julius
Asher, Alexander Branch
Atkinson, James
Anstin, Sampson

Bien, Joseph
Babbitt, John Henry
Baggett, William Thomas Bioge,Theo.ChristophDan'I
Baldwin, James Waterman Blackman, J Dya.tt
Bamberger,Sigmund Simon Bloot, John Patten
Bolander, Louis Philip
Banner, Marcos
Boole, George
Barker, Allred
Boone, John Lee
Baskerville, Edwin
Boyd, Colin McNicoll
Baum, Gustos
BrRgg, Robert, Jr.
Beck, William Arthur
Breitzman, Robert
Behlow, Charles John
Bremer, William Herman
Berg, Alfred
Berryman, Hearl Borpee Briggs, Arthur Robert

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of O<ilifornia.

395

Brodhurst, John Campbeli Forrest, Wm. Drummond Johnson, John Henry
Jones, Frank Able
Fraser, Edwin Joseph
Browell, Jeremiah
Katz, Manda.I
Freund, Philip
Brown, Andrew
Kear, John
Fuller, Andrew Henry
Broce, William Yoong
Furman, Henry Mattbew Kennedy, Albert Warren
Bnrley, Dudley
Kenny, Thomas
Garrett, James Hyland
Byxbee, John Fletoher
Kent, Richard
Ga old, James Green
(]ameroo, John William
Kent, Thaddeus Benning
Getz, Bernard
O&nham, Frederick
Kerr, Earl
Casaelmaon, Joliua Molter Getz, Marous
Kervan, Thoe. La.wreooe
Gilberts, Edward
Center, John
Kincaid, Isaac Pbilamsoo
Gilchrist, John Graoc
Clark, James William
t.Hlmore, Aogoa Augustus King, Henry Lewis
(]lark, George Waverley
Cllft'ord, Ja.mes Benjamin Gimpel, Maorice Christian Knudsen, Philip Jolina
Goetze, Frederick William Kowalsky, Simon
<lode, James Arthur
Latson, Frank Palmer
Goldstein, Simon
Cofer, Elliott Marion
Laver, Angoatna
Goldstone, oamnel
Coftlo, Lincoln Alverton
Lengfeld, Abraham Lewis
Gorie, Jamee
Cohen, Jacob
Leonard, Edward Francie
Gra.dy, James
Cohen, Philip
Leverentz, Charles
Grant, William
<l9hen, Simon
Levin, Loois
Gray, Henry
Coho, Lonie Meyer
Levinsky, Loois
Green, William.
<lonroy, Eugene Chester
Levy, Jaoob
Greet , William John
Cooper, William
Levy, Samuel Wolf
Gomp, Solomon
Oraig, Lee Darneal
Gonzborger, Benj. Mitchell Lezinsky, George
<lrowley, Timothy Jay
Liebes, Berman
Gonzburger, Emil
Calmerry, William Scott
Lincoln, Elijah Whiting
Hallett, George Henry
Carrie, Robert
Lippitt, Philip
Hallett, Oliver Gray
Carry, John
Lippman, George
Ham, Charles Herbert
Cottlng, John Tyler
D'Ancona, Alex. Dawson Hansen, Frederick Ladwig Llewellyn, Llewellyn James
Lockard, Walter Scott
Barris, Benjamin
Daniel, Wllliam Lyon
Locke, Bumoel
Barria, Elias
Darling, George Lonie
L'bckwood, Thomas
Harrie, Marcos
Davidson, George
Louden, Oberlin
Harris, Matthew
Delfs, Marcos Alexander
Louis, Benjamin Francis
Hayes, George Walfred
Dennison, Ami Prince
Lowell, John Franklin
Hechheimer, Leopold
Dibble, William Stow
Lowenthal, Morris S
Helbing, Aogost
Dick, Daniel John
Lotz, .William Edward
Dickinson, Robert Frank Henderson, Frank
Dicks.on, George Edwar.d Hendry, Andrew Morray Macdonald, Malcolm
Mackenzie, John Ross
Hewatoo, James
Dinkelspiel, Laza.roe
MacKinoon, Thomas Alex.
Hills, Reuben Walmarth
Doble, Abner
Madden, Robert Willis
Bines, Berman
Douthitt, David Willi11m
Madison, James
Dowling, Charles Welseley Hoffman, Abraham
Magnio, Simeon
llragomaoovicb, Spiro 8. G. Bollub, Samuel Simon
Maguire, Thomas Frank
Bu&bes, William George
Drohe, John Gerhard
Makins, Jamee Nicholas
Humphrey, George
Donn, John
"Mansbach , Emanuel
Hutchins, Charles
Earle, Henry Halford
Manwaring, Cha.rles Wm.
Irvine, Alexander
Eells, Alexander Grimes
Marliave, Edward Cornelle
Jamee, Jefferson Gilbert
Elder, William James
Marshall, Patrick Blight
J ellioek, Charles
Ellis, Henry Aquilla
English, Leland Garrison Jenks, George Wilahingtoo Me,xeon, Frank
Jennings, Ch11rles Brooks Mayle, George Dennis
Feldmann, Diedrich
McClure, William
.Jennings, Edward
l'innegan, Matthew
Johnson, Obristian Eman' l McColl, John
Poorman, Samoel

•

396

ReturntJ of the Svl>ordinate Lodges

[Ang. 1,

Mc0orl1'1ck, William
Pierce, Nelson
Smallbones, James
McCray, Franklin Philande r Piper, Arthnr Leroy
Somervell, Wm. Somervell
McDonald, John Hugh
Plppey, Robert Norman
Speier, Bernard
McUongall, Obas. Campbe ll Pomin, George Joachim
Speyer, Walter Morris
MoElroy, Robert
Posner, Max
St. l.llalr,GeorgeW118hingt'n
MoGeorge, Jamee
Prindle, ~'rank Minor
Stanton, Andrew Palmer
McGregor,Arch. Henders on Qoalman, John
Stark, William Alexand er
Mcintyre, James
Qoion, Abram Richard
Stern, Moses Milo
McJookio, Bogh King
Rabjohn, Thomas Henry Ste.rohelm, Samuel
McKay, John Henry
Reid, John
Stevenson, John Jamee
McLea, Arthur
Reid, Thomas
Stevenson, Thomae
McLeod, Daniel
Reiter, Prosper Peter
Solilvao, Jeremia h Flore'ce
McLerifJ, Henry Johnston Reiter, Victor Mathew
Sassman , Samuel
Melin, Oharles Gnstof
Reynolds, Thomas Harris Sweet, Solomon
Melloish,HerbertStanlsland Richards, Charles West
Tedlie, James Hamilton
Melrose, Kenneth
Robbins, Frederick Averill Terry, Joseph Tripp
Michaels, Abraham
Roberts, Augustus Henry Thompson, Ed ward Mealing
Millen, George Barnes
Roberts, Thom"R
Thomson, William James
Moore, Thomas
Rockwood, Edmnod Root Titus, William Henry Frank
Morebonse,Chris.Colnmbne Romaine, Nicholas Theo're Toelken
, Herman
Morehead, John White
Rosenblatt, Arthur Stern Toplltz, Robert Louis
Morton, ThomBB
Ro11enfeld, Maurice
Troppmaon, Oharles Martin
Mowbray, Rebert Henry Ro11entbal, Maurice
Trotter, John Stewart
Muirhead, Thomas
Ross, David Adam
Turpin, Frederic k LigM
Muller, Coostaotioe
Rowley, Benjamin Nathan Tuttle, John
Mondt, Francis Aogosto·s Samuels, David
Vou Werthern, Joseph
Murray, George Ireland
Samuels, Jacob
Wagner, Jacob
Myers, Jacbiel
Saoderhaos, Geo. H'y Oliver Wagner , Theodor e
Nash, William Joseph
Sanderson, James
Wallace, John William
Nathan, Bernard
Savage, Wm. Cunningh'm Walkington, John Henry
Nevers, Lewis J
Schlesinger, Charles
Wankowski, William
Newbau er, Herman Wolf Schoenberg, Henry
Ward, William Braddon
Newbaner, Joseph
Schutte, John Henry
Watters on, Geo. Thompson
Nield, John Detlifson
Schwart z, Moses
Weidenreich, Michael
Noonan, Lawrence Edward Schwartze, Karl Gustav
Whitten, James
Otfer, Charles
Scott, Albert Woodburn
W!lliams, Daniel A
Ogilvie, James Roberl.llon Searey, John Joseph
· Williams, John W
Parker, Charles Hubbard Seelig, Simon
Wilson, Frederic k Green
Pearce, William David
Beeman, William
Wilson, Joseph Lewis
Penhallow, DeBlois Pearce Sheideman, Bahr
Wilson, Marion Allen
Percy, George Washioirton Sherwood, William Franklin Young,
Arthur Lansing
Peterson , John Cigord
Simon, Joseph
Zielio, Winfield Scott-3 56.
Pidwell, Cyril TrevoBBo . Simpsoo,Thomae Benjamin
WITHDR AWN:

Oalbel'g, Gustav Frederic k
Mouser, SilBB Mercer

Perine, Nicholas Patterson
Oorliss, Aognstos Whittem ire

Swannac k, Daniel
Wey!, Barnard o-6.

SUSPEN DED FOB NON- PAYMEN T OF DUES:

Armstrong, Herbert Goy
Bandy, Aaron Norton

Barr, Stewart Alexander
Nye, Joseph Merrill

Simc;m, Theodore Joseph- 6.

1895.]

'1.o the Grand Lodge of CaU/ornia.

397

DIED:

Astredo, Antonio
Blackboro, David Oates
Oarpenter, Dexter Sibl.ey
-naoiel, John

Dempster, James
Fenn, John Henry
Grant, John Thomas
Higgins, James

Isaac, Alb.ert
Robbins, William Joseph
Smith, Charles Scheifllein
Wihl, Gostav- 12.

CROC KETT LODG E, No. 139.
San Franeia co, San Francle co Coo.nty .

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in e,q.ch month.
OFFIC ERS•

George Stephen Oonroy, Senior Deaovn,
Thomas Rowlands, Master,
Bernhard Reuben, Junior Deaoon,
Charles Oellarios, Seni.or Warden,
John Francis Cosgrove, Marahal,
Julias Reimer, Junio1· Warden,
George Ellsworth Burnham ,} ~wards,
Leonard B Lippert, Treasurer,
Albert Blnmenthal,
Henry ForLride: 860retary,
John Edward Hunt, 7Yler•
Paat Maetera 1

Carsten Hildebra ndt,
William Reid Low,

Robert Charles Meyers,
John Christian Gerhard Brose,

Heber Notter Tilden.

MASTER MASONS :

Oharles Stewart Jacobse n, Niels
Anderson, George
C-'geo,
·~
Arpe, Otto o.
Oreese, Frank Hazen
Johnson , Frederic k
Aachen, Christian Henry Crofts, John James
Johnson , Magnus
Barker, Enoch William
Dallamore, George Charles Johnston, Harry James
Becker, Adolph Cornelius Dheilig Alfred John
Kam, Gosiav
Bengtson, Sven
DippeI. 'Heory
Kelly, .Robert Gabriel
Berendes, Joseph Charles Donglas Colin Alexander Knop,
Elfert
Bigley, William Henry
Driscoll,' Frank Henry
Kroscher~ Hugo Julius
Bitzer, Jerome E
Edward s William T.
Krog, Fritz
Bowdich , Richard William Evans, D~vid John
Lambert , William Patl'ick
Broman, Albert
Flathma nn, Claus
Landers, John
BorgesR, Joseph Edward Grant, John
Laughton, James
Oahen, Solomon
Hagerop,C. S. O. Aggerborp;Llewellyo, Ree~e. .
Carroll, William Henry
Hansen , F elix A. D.
Lind, John Chri~ti~n
Chambe rs, George William Harder, Peter
Lord, George Wilham
Chase, Harry Fitz William Harris, George David
Lloyd, Hugh John
Christiansen, Jacob
Hatch, Richard
Loocl, John August
Ciprlco, Edmond Samuel Heins, Adolph Freidrich
Mano, Bruno Ma~
Compo, Geo. La Fayette Higgs, John
Mark~, Joseph Michael
Ooegrov e, John
Hinck, Henry John
Martin, Al~re d
Oowin, Steph,;o
Hosking, John
McCann , Richard
Oox, Richard
Hord, Jethro Hansen
McCracken, Arthnr
Cox, Thomas Francis
Isaac, David
McKarley, Edward

398

Rtturns of the SulJordinat~ Lodg~

(Aug. 1,

· McLonghlin, Alexander
Price, Evan James
Stotz, Jacob
McMnrry, V1'1entloe Cook Parvis, Jobn Henry
Thomas, Bertrand McNnlty
Mehrtens, Richard
Sartori, Joseph
Thornley, William Henry
Merrill, Charles Carroll
Schammel, Henry
Tobin, David Joseph
Metzler, Hermann
Schottler, Herman
Vetter, Philipp
Meyer, Charles
Schottler, Rudolph
Vock, Simon
Meyer, Joline
Schnltze, Louis
Waldron, John Terry
Mnlfe, Frederick Peter
Schwarz, Gnstav
Ward, Patrick Fraok
Nelson, Charles John
Schweitzer, Jacob
Watson, Ambrose Alex.
Nichole, Thomae Henry
Segeeeer, John Ulrich
Webber, Charles
Nicolaysen, Frank N.
Shannon, Peter
Wieland, Charles
North, John Gooder
Simpson, Jamee
· Weitner, Anton
Parker, Thomae Beede
Sooman, Johao Joachim T. Wolters, John Diederck
Patterson, John Charles
Spoerl, Marcos P.Johan Ang. Yoong, William Ralph
Pattison, George
St. Germain, Napoleon H. Yoong, Royal Burr
Perle, Joh1m Frederick
Standfl, Henry Angnet
Zwick, Charle8 Antcne-133.

1895.]

'J.'o the Grand Lodge of Oalifornw.

399

MASTER MASONS:

Appleton, Wellington
Armstrong, Jae. Boydston
Arreghl, Galleno
Brosh, Fred W
Caldwell, George Oscar
Dixon, Engene Flentcher
Frazier, William

Hampson, Henry Abiel
Hulme, Jamee
Lamb, Francis Marion
Larrison, Samuel
·
Marinkovich, Antone
Reed, John
Russell, George Clifford

Scott, Byl veeter
Shelford, Peter Landis
Slavich, John Andrea
Smith, Jehiel
Thomae, Richard Henry
Vaeconi, Lnigl
Ward, Jamee Abraham--$3 .

FELLOW CRAFl'B :

Allman, Joseph Peter

Domine, Henry Frederick

Domine, Augnst Frank-3.

ENTERED APPRENTICE S:

Abshier, Jamee Henry

Meochi, Constantio&- 3.

Gillespie, William Edward
DIED:

FELLOW OBAFTS :

Anderson, William Olayton-1.

Bordewlg, George

Peters, John-2.
ENTERED APPRENTICE S :

Caldwell, Robert
Clute, Alva Baker

Jones, Fred Frances

Waller, Leopold Philip F.

--'·

WITHDRAWN :

Cahen, Abraham Samuel
Cox, Christopher Cnarlee •

Parry, Edward Reer

Schoenfeld, David Michel
--4.

GRAFTO N LODGE, No. 141.
Grafton, Yolo County,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PA.YMENT OF DUF.S :

Armstrong, George
Kneip, Friedrich Karl

Knoechel, Charles
Magnire, David

Parcell, J oho Frances.-6.

Stakd Mutinga, Saturday of or ~t auccuding Full Moon.
OFFICER!!11

· DIED:

Bilttner, Herman Friedrich

Davidson, Magnus Brnce-2.

P a.at Maatera 1

CURTIS LODGE, No. 140.
Cloverdale, Sonoma County,

&aud .Mee.tings, Saturday next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS :

George Baker Baer, Ma.Bier,
Renben Edward Baer, Senior Deacon,
Jacob Greirg H eald, Senior Warden,
Guilio Allegrini, Junior JJeacon,
Charles Emile Humbert, Junior Warden, William Thomas Brnsb, Marehnl,
James Abram Kleieer, Treat1Urer,
Richard Solomon Markell, l Steto da
Daniel Morgan Wambold, SecreW.rJJ,
Simon Pinschower,
f
a.r '
John Goetzelman, 7Yler.
Pan Maotere1

Charles Henry Oooley,
Jacob Gregg Heald,

Daniel Morgan Wambold,
James Abram Kleieer,

Robert Scott Henley Leathers, MatJter,
Isaac Jefferson Ely, Senior Deacon,
Lewis Case Johnson, Senf.or Warden,
Pet.er Goettsch, Junior Deacon,
__ - , Junior Warden,
Donald Crane, Marllhal,
John Abner Leathers, 7reaaurer,
Barkley Gilbert P eart, } Stlrularda,
George Clarke Peart, Secretary ,
John Welle Snowball,
,
William Henry Winne, 7Yler-

John Goetzelman,
George Baker Baer.

John Wells Snowball,
Isa'ac J effereon Ely,
Peter Goettsch,

Charles Gronig,
Barkley Gil be rt Peart,

George Clarke Peart,
Rob't Scott HenleyLeathers.

MASTER MASONS :

Adame, Levi Brandon
Hoffman, Geo. Washington Pearce , Byron
Bell, William 8
Kier, Henry McBride
Snowball, Henry Havela~k
Bostwick, Wiiiiam Henry McDonald, George Franklin Thompson , Benj. Frankhn
Oopp, Wm. Henry Harrison Neill, Jobn
Veeder, Peter Vroman-24.
Grnnig, Lewis Herman
DIED:

Donham, Thomas Jefferson

Knees, Andrew-2.

400

Returns of the Subordinate LodgM

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of OaUfornia.

1895.]

401

Paat Jllaaten.1

FRANKLI N LODGE, No. 143.
Courtland, !iacram.,nto <Joanty.

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or next prueding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

George Place Runyon, Senior Deacon,
Oharles Edwin Hollister, Maater,
Joseph Henry Hyde, Junior Deacon,
William James Smith, Senior Warden,
Howard Douglas Kercheval,Jun. Warden, William Alex. Johnston, Marshal,
Thomas Webster Dean l ,,, __ _
Solomon Rooyoo, '.lreaaurer,
Jens Romeo Olsen, 'f owwarda,
Peter B Green, &oretary,
George MoOnllough, Tyler.
Pa•t Jllaateru

Hans Bernard Wm. Jagao,
Solomon Runyon,
Jens Romeo Olsen,
Wm. Johnston, P. (}-. M.,

Harrison Span Ivey,
Henry Tyler Huggins,
Peter B Green,
John Orofton,

Arrasmith, Vernon
Barohisel, Chas. Franklin
Billops, Lewis Casa
Oathere, James
Cornish, George Franklin
Dano, Ephraim
Hanson, Charles Eraamoa
Hebb, Henry
Hiosdell, Seymour Sidney
Hollister, :Dwight

Houston, Joseph Warren
Isham, Henry Franklin
Isham, Mnrray Leo
King, Azariah Jodson
Kroll, Ane Ayelts
Lnfkin, Harry Tillestoo
McCollough, Alexander A
Osborn, David Horace
Pool, Francis Marion
Porlogton, Clarence W.

Alfred Thos. JaR. Reynolds,
William Alex. Johnston,
Charles Edwin Hollister.

MASTER MASONS:

Radjesky, Louis David
Scribner, Geo. Washington
Smith, Hart Fellows
Stephenson, John Nicholas
Stevenson, Oscar
Thisby, George
Vance, Hngh
Winter, Johan Wilhelm
Woodin, Arnold-46.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

DIED:

Barry, William Henry-I.

Dutton, Owen Phlllpps-1.

ORIENTAL LODGE, No. 144.
San Franclaco, San Franchco County.

Stated Meetings, fir1t 1\teaday in each month. .
OFFICER!i1

Charles Bone, Maller,
Frank Bacon Ladd, Senior Warden,
Edward Bentley Church, Jun. Warden,
George Howard Thompson, Treasurer,
Adolphus Hkinuer Hobbard, Secretary,
Rev. George Edward Walk, Ohaplain,

William Rheinhard Jost, Senior IJeaoon,
William Fletcher Empey, Junior Deaoon,
James Hargraves Wallace, Marshal,
Francis Eastman Bridges, l Stet.Darda
'
f
Robert Boyes,
Frederiok Wilmer Pierce, '.ijiler.

Edward Pleasant Cole,
·Ely Israel Hutchinson,
John Bell,
Thomas Kyle,
Ferdinand Westdahl,
Milton Hills Myrick,
Barlow Dyer,
Wllliam Moody Webster,
William Friend Dorrance,
Walter Scott Brown,
~ Cornelins Preston Robinson, Robert Hodge,
John Hatfield Gray,
Renben Hedley Lloyd,
David Charles Smith,
Edward Charles Lundqnlst, Timothy Joseph Orowley,
Edgar Frank Preston,
Matthew Thomas Wilson.
George Howard Thompson, John Tonningaen,
Edwin White Newhall,
MASTER MASONS :

Gunnison, Andrew Joseph Morgan, Frederick Oharles
Angus, James Stewart
Baker, George Washington Habenlr.ht,George Nicholas Morrow, William W
Murray, Thomas Joseph
Hammond, John Hayes
Baldwin, Alfred Walton
Morphy, Samnel Green
Hardie, Frank Diedrich
Barry, Edward
Nelson, Rasmns
Harrison, William Greer
Bassett, Charles Follen
Bonsfleld, Frederick Henry Hartshorne, Benj. Minturn Newhall, Henry Gregory
Bowes, Edward Chipman Hathaway,Edw 'd Valentine Newball, William Mayo
Henriksen, BernhardtEdw. Norcross, Daniel
Boyd, David Wilson
Parson, Edward
Heuer, William Henry
Boyes, James
Partridge, Edward Briggs
Hobro, William Dovey
Branch, Royal Daniel
Partridge, John
Bolt, John Henry
Breon, Pan)
Brisco, William Monnsey Hooper, William Burchell Peel, Jonathan Morft'ew
Pinkatone, Arthnr John
Hopkins, Timothy
Brown, Grafton Tyler
Pitchford, John Benjamin
Hunter, John Val11ey
Bush, DaYid
Campb~ll,Walter Channoey Hntchinsoo, John Jennings Pope, Overton Charles
Porter, ThomB!I Alexander
Hyde, Richard Elting
Castle, Stephen
Potnam, Charles Benjamin
Chapman, William Henry Jackson, Alden W
Rail, Eugene Benton
Oheminant, Alexis Sylvain Johnson, Roger
Ralston, William Chapman
Josselyn, Charles
Clark, Benjamin
Read, Henry Lawrence
Corrao, John Wm. Gnnnison Jost, Oharles, Sr.
Bedding, Joseph Deighon
Jost, Oharles, Jr.
Oolby, Albert Edward
Rixford, Golian Pickering
Crittenden, Chas. Seymour Jost, George Willis
Roach, Elmer Dnncan
Jost, Joseph
Orooker, Calvin Harlow
Rosie, Walter
Kip, James
Orooks, George Bates
Scherr, John Frederick
Cabery, William McBnrney Kitchen, George Albert
Schnelde,, Edward William
Klcioclaus, Andrew
Cutten, Edward Logan
Knox, Thomas Rosebrngh Scott, Ebenezer
Davies, Llewellyn
Selfridge, Edward Aug., Jr.
Labatt, Charles Bagot
Drlftleld, Vero Carns
Sennett, James
Lindsay, Matthew John
Eagleson, John Geddes
Seyler, Obarles, Jr.
Loring, William Henry
Ellii, Henry Cromwell
Shattuck, Charles Curtis
Lowell, Nathan Reaben
Ellie, Henry Hiram
Empey, William Fletcher Mathews, Henry Edward Shattuck, David Dustin
Sloan, James Ralph
Fargo, Jerome Bonaparte McAfee, William Adam
Sloan, John
Fltzhngh, Wm. McPherson McCluskey, George
McOutchen, Edw. Johnson Smith, Edwin Brace
l'oater, Arthur William
Smith, George Julian
McLean, Joseph Ropert
l'oater, Samnel
Giberson, Nelson Schofield Merry, William Lawrence Smith, Harry Dort. Jr.
Metzner, Charles Francis Smiih, Henry Jallan
Godley, Montgomery
Milestone, William Hebden Smith, Henry Sidney
Gordon, James Edward
Smith, Lewis Warren
Grant, Thos. Chamberlain Mitchell, Albert Jerome
Montagne, Wilford Weed Stackpole, William Henry
Grauerholz, Ileory John
Steele, Daniel Lucu
Moore, William Payne
Green, Adam Treadwell
Stoddart, Aogustos Wynne
M.orft'ew, Thomas
Greenwood, Monroe

32

402

Returns of the Subordinate Lo<lges

[Aug. 1,

Tnrkington,Rich'dson Robt. Wilkinson, Crayton Winsor
Story, Charles Robinson
"Wilson, Charles Edward
Veen, Frank Joseph
Swan, Beojamin Ralph
Teschemacber,Henry Fred. Walbank, Charles William Wise, John Henry
Wood, Abraham
Thomson, Stuart Coventry Walrath, Anstin
Warner, Obas. Hutchinson Wright, William Chandler
Thompeon, David
Thornton, Samuel Kennedy Watkins, Alonzo Augustus Yonng, Thomas
Whitwell, Wm. S.collay, Jr. Yonnger,William John-183.
Titcomb, John Henry

1895.}

To the Grand Lo<lge of California.
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Moore, Tbomas-1.

Parks, David Harrison-!.

403

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Shields, William-2.

Koeblio, Lawrence

FELLOW CRAFT:

Newhall, Walter Scott-I.
ENTERED APP.RENTICES :

Beveridge. Horatio
Fletcher, William Melvin

Tomkinson, James

Spreckels, Clans August-!.

ABELL LODGE, No. 146.
Ukiah, Mendocino County.

RESTORED:

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or n~t preceding Full Moon.

Gnnnison, Andrew Joseph-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Dntton, Samnel Edwards

OFFICERS1

Laraya, Rncco

Millikeo, Peter-3.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Dnke, Robert Donglas
.l!'iske, Henry Gustavus

Martinez, Louis Elie
Nief, Frooerick Adrien

Sheldon, George Edwin
-IS.

DIED:

Hollis, William

.Murry, Martin WiJliain

Smith, George Sedgwick-3.

:VITRUVIUS LODGE, No. 145.
Bloomfield, Sonoma County.

Stated Meeting1, Saturday of or n~t ·preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS1

Sanborn Marrioo Reese-, Senior Deacofl,
John David lliosbaw, Master,
Bruce Travis Cockrill, Senior Warden, Philo Hull, Junior Deacon,
Harrison Melvin Le Baron, Jun. Warden, Dorr Hakes, Mar•hal,
d
Oliver Maximillian Le Fe bore t St
Valencourt Stillwell, Trea.Bitrer,
. General Washington Knapp,' f ewar 8 '
James Hall Jenkins, Secretary,
John M. Crose, 1yler.
Edward Carter Hinshaw, Ohaplain,
Theodore Guevara Uockrill,
John Balton Oliver,

Past Maaters1
John David Hinshaw,

Harrison M~lville Le Baron.

MASTER MASONS :

Appleton,_ John
Caughey, William
Chnrch, Samuel Boward
Oook,Joho
Ephraim, Solomon
Gaver, Andrew P
Gonldager, Hans

Graves, Hiram Angnstas
Hall, William Parker
Haney, Frank
Herbert, William Henry
Hinshaw, James Nye
Kowalsky, Henry I!lllac

Goodman Harvey Lance, Ben. Deacon,
William Truman Kirkwood , Masrer,
James Robert Mathews, Senior Warden, John Walter Eversole, Junior .Deacon,
Francis Marion Mason, Junior Warden, William Henry Chessall, Marshal,
Harry MorriB, l stewards
·
Samuel Wheeler, 7Teaaurer,
'
William Watkios Cunningham, Secretary, Neil Anker, f
Oliver Hazard Perry Brown, Tyler.
John Wallace Bryant, Ohaplain,

Laafenbnrg, Michael
Parker, Alva
Robertsori, J oho
Sartori, Jgoazio
Steele, David
Stump , John Conrad-38.

Edward Warren King,
Thomas Langley Oarothers,
Thomas Benjamin Bond,
George McCoweo,
Wm. Watkins Cunningham,
John Henry Seawell,
Archibald Yell,

Past Master&•
Hale Mccowen,
William Henry Ohe111all,
Carroll Henry Whitten,
Washington Irving Baily,
William Ross Elliot,
Lymanl.;Wilbert Babcock,

Charles Cunningham,
John Henry Barker,
Joseph Albertson,
Neil Anker,
Thomae Langley Barnes,
James Milton Mannon.

MASTER MASONfil :

Fairbaoks,Maodal Whipple Hughes, James Harris
Abraham, Louis
Hunter, Wflliam Talbot
Foree, William Henry
Bartlett, Nathan
Huntley, William
Foster, Jesse Valentine
Bechtol, Albert George
Isbell, William
Gannett, Joseph
Beaeore, Daniel Potter
Kilbonroe,Wiiliam Vincent
Gibson, Andrew Jacksoo
Beladeau, Louis
Layton, Frank Burton
Gloyd, Daniel Jerome
Benton, James Brown
Leason, Thomas
Berryhill, Joseph Tanner Gowell, Charles Alfred
Hagans, William Anderson Levy, Morris Frank
Donlon, Paul
Markle, Robert Bruce
Harbert, Lee L
Brower, John Daniel, Jr.
Marks, Seymour
Hatch, Hiram Treat
Brown, Henry Nathan
Mathews, Chas. Williamson
Henderson, Benjamin
Cerf, Aaron
Matbews,Stooewall Jackson
Hendrix, Jay Ward
Oharltoo, Thomas
.McClintock , William
Cleveland, William Jasper Henry, John Rice
Oompton,Tbomas Jefferson Hensley,Henry Livingsione McGarvey, Robert
McKinley, David Shepherd
Higgins, CharlesP
Co1>k, James Clinton
Mitchell, Hiram Heaton
Hirsch, Benoit Samuel
Dick, Andrew
Montagne, Lemuel Davis
Dillingham, William Keith Hoag, Leslie
Moore, William Neet
Hofman, Charles
Dnncan, Jacob
Howard, WiJliam Harper Mulcahy, David
Dunsing, Frederick
Newfield, Marcus
Huggins, Eri
Eastman, Henry Lee

404

Returns of the Subordinate Lodge,s

LAug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand L<J<lge of California.

405

FELLOW CRAFT:

ENTER.ED APPRENT IOE :

Ho~ard, James Bloxom
Medcalf, Joo.Ed.H ardiman' S~hell, Hiram D~nnis
Hubbard , Edward Buckley Miller, John
.
81monds, Frederick Bela
James, Samuel <;>liver
Milligan, Thomas
Smith, James Lambert
Kelley, Thomas Lamb
Morrison, Sanford Benton Stone, George Wells
Kinman, Carlin
Newell, D<Lniel Sheldon
Stobbs, Moses Rams~':
Lamb, Alexander Abel
Perrott, Mathew
Sweasey, Thomas Wilham
Lamb Winfield Scott
Price, Benjamin Allen
Underwo od, George
Luth:r Frank William
Rowley, Charles A. E.
Van Sickle, ~home.a
Maxwe'u, Jas. Washington Rowley, J.ames William · Weber, Martm-7
2.
McCord, James Clinton

Foster, Je.cob Leone.rd -1.

Shelton, William- 1 •

Davie, Harriso n-I.

Orr, Je.mes Henry
Rosenber g, Se.moel Louis Te.nner, Dennis
Pe.xton, Se.moel Dihel
Se.ooders, John Herbert
Taylor, John
Pickle, Geo. We.shlogton
Schefer, Jobo Henry
Thomas, Andrew Jackson
Porterfte ld, William Wilson Singley, George Henry
Todd, John Fre.nklin
Proudfoo t, William
Sme.rt, George Arthur
We.genseller, Norton
Rawles, Thome.s Edward
Snow, Joho
We.lton, Benson
Reed, John Smith
Standley , Jeremiah M
Wesle.r, George
Reedy, Le.wrence Joseph Stoot, George Washingtoo Zimmerme.n,
Wm. Tell-lU .
Rice, Se.m Houston
Storteve.nt, James Hughes

ENTERED APPRENT ICE :

. SUSPEND ED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Bransford, We.lter Lee
Hose, Charles Brown
Donohoe, Jeremiah Henry Street, Charles

Thomas, Mice.jab Anderson
Wright, Berry-6 .

EXPELLE D: .

DIED:

Holliday, Stonewa ll·Jaokso n-1.

Day, Lonie Taylor-1 .

LASSE N LODG E, No. 149.
Saaanyt ne, Laasen County.

Stated Meetings, Saturda y of or nezt succeeding Pull .Moon.
OFFICE RS•

EEL RIVER LODG E, No. 147.
Rohnerv llle, Ha0>bo ldt <loanty.

Stated Meetings, Saturda y of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

John William Zimmerman, Senior D~aoon,
Julien Eugene Pardee, Maater,
Charles Edward Emerson, Sen. Warden, Samuel Johnson, Ju1.tor Deacon,
William Brockman, Marshal,
John Coville Davis, Junior Warden,
William Smith Davis,
Jules Alexande r, Treaaurer,
l StewanJ.s,
Alexande r Thrall Arnold, I
James Branham , Searetary,
John Hansen Marker, Tyler.

OFFICE RS:

Henry SinclairDelamer, Master,
Walter Lonie Perrott, Senior Deaoon,
Brice H McNeil, Sen. Warden,
Samuel Fred Swanger, Junior Deacon,
Frank Wright Oliver, Junior Warden,
Alexande r Grant Connick, Marshal,
Michael Nicholas Weber, Trea.surer,
George Edwin Stewart }
' Stewards,
William Henry Bryan, Seuretary,
Samuel Ballentine,
Oliver Kenard Nason, Tyler.
Past. Maaters 1

Horace Smith Ce.se,
Charles Austin Eastman,
Peter Pierce Perry,

Edwin Samuel Phillips,
William Henry Bryan,

Anderson, Colon
Anderson, Martin
Beaker, Charles •
Beckwith, Frank Walter
Brewer, Charles Henry
Callihan, Robert
Clyde, Leslie Yoong
Corning, Smith Peabody
Crabtree , Frank

Dale, Benton
Dale, Jerry
Dale, John
Davis, Henry De Lase.ox
Dobbyn, William Butler
Feigenba um, Benedict
Feigenba um, Joseph
Felt, Theodore Dwight
Foss, Je.mes Calvin

William Dinsmore,
John Walter Ryan.

MASTER MASONS :

Frost, llhe.rles Be.ker
Fulton, Warren
Hansell, Amos, Jr.
Hansell, Harry Kingston F.
Hiller, George
Hiller, Philip Alexander
Hindley, George
Hodge, Frank
Hoock, Peter

Past Masters :

John Renshaw Lockwood,
James Branham,
Wright Patrick Hall.

Jerome Augustus Gilman,
Zetus Newell Spauldin g,

William Brockman,
Julien Eugene Pardee.

MASTER . MASONS :

A.sher, Morris
Baugham, Eber Gaston
Bangham, Frank Henry
Bennett, Herbert Warren
Bereman , Henry
Blake, James Curran
8owman, Edwin David
Oahlan, John
Cramer, Charles
Cramer, Daniel
Dodge, Edmond Robert
Baaton, George Breeding
,Jimerson, Charles Thumas
Fox, Albert Adolphus
Garrett, J oho Preston
Goumaz, Philip Jacob
Ball, Charles Edward

Hall, William Henry
Harris, Charles
Hosselkos, John Wesley
Hurlbut, Perin Delos
Hyer, David Campbell
Johnston , Robert
Knoch, David
Knoch, Isaac
Knudson, Lewis ·
Leonard, Jewette Gibbs
Longanecker, Chas. Ed w.
Masten, John T
Me.sten, William Thomas
McKinsey, Noble Samuel
Meylert, Howard William
M!ller, Andrew

Minckler, William David
Otto, Fred Anthony ·
Schmidt, Marcos Joseph
Shinn, Robert Lee
Shumway, Benjamin E.
Smith, Louis Sprigg
Snyder, Henry
Spauldin g, John Bridges
Stiles, Lyman Collins
Talbot, Enoch Stanwood
Thibault, Louis
Thomas, Frank
Van Norden, Thomas Abell
Wheeler, Daniel Carl
Williams, Eugene Albert
Zimmerman, John Willlam
-64.

406

Relurna of the Subordinate ·Lodgea

[Aug. l;

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifO'MW.

407

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Van L(!an, Elmore-1.

PALMYRA LODGE, No. 151.

WITHDRAWN:

Chamberlin, Philander
Pierce, George Stronk

Stoll, Charles Michael

Ward, Frank Gates-4..

DIED:

Placervflle, El Dorado County.

Stated Meetings, second Thursday in en.ch month.

Laorman, Joan Fernandez-I.

OFFICERS•

George Hontlngtoo Burnham, 8. Deacon,
John Pearson, Master,
Charles Henry Weatherwax, 8. Ward., Robert Newton Day, Junior Deacon,
John Nichole Waters. Jumor Warden, Jamee Peter Kyser, Marehal,
Daniel George Carr, j Bl811!arda,
John William Dench, TreallUf"er,
Robert Blair,
l
Shelley Inch, Becre"tary,
Oliver Vinton Morris, Tyler.

MOLINO LODGE, No. 150.
Tehama, Tehama County,

Stated Meeting11, 811turdaf/ of or next preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERH•

Elias Delaven Gardner, Ma.Bier,
Joseph Charles Gyle, b'enio1• Dea.con,
Henry Weymaoo, BeniorWarden,
John Joseph Meline, Junior Deaoon,
Robert Clegg, Junior Warden,
Alvah Peterson, Marshal,
Lonie Abraham Gyle, Trea8Urer,
Albert Oliver Peden I
George Charles Simpson, Secretary,
Andrew Simpson
'f Sl8wardll,
Robert Monroe Woode, Tyler.
Robert Hurd Blossom,
Alvah Peterson,

Pa•t Master&:
John Simpson,
Randolph Hnrlbot,

Elias Delavan Gardner.

MASTER MASON!! :

Aitken, Andrew Boyd
Gemmill, John Blaine
Montgomery, Wm. Thomae
Aitken, John Simpson
Griggs, Sidney Allen
Morrissey, Thomae Francis
Aitken, Robert Balentine Hobson, Jesse. Mason
Millier, John Baptist
Bogard, Andrew Jackson Hooeemao, John Samuel
Peters, Edward Thompson
Bratton, John Michael
Honeeman,Rob't Porterfield Ratcliff, Osmond
Britt, George Leroy
Howell, Thomae Franklin Schrorer, Frederick
Chamberlain, Joseph
Johnson, Mathew Rector Smith, Andrew
Cromrine,Beotoo Vandegr't Lane, 'James Henry
Stanley, Edward Charles
De Pay, Anson Angnetus Macken, Lewie
Stanbes, Charles
Ehrlich, John
McDaniel, Henry Walker Stout, George Homer
Finnell, Simpson
Miller, William Wallace
Thompson, Joseph Monroe
Flynn, Jamee Charles
-48.
FELLOW CRAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Da'l'IB, Frank-1.

Lee, William-1.

Paat Maaters:

Solomon Alexander Long, David Wheeler Macomber, Geo. Hootiogton Bornham,
J oho Dodd Skinner,
George Washington McKee, Seth Loveless,
William Napp Homey,
Thomae Fraser,
Shelley Inch,
James Peter Kyser.,
Oli'l'er Vinton Morris,
John William Eaton,
MASTER MASONS :

Morey, Henry Sylvester
Alden, Samuel Jemmisoo Gear, Alfred Henry
Murray, Benjamin Franklin
Alderson, Richard, Jr.
Graben, Bernard
Papioa, Peter
Allen, J obn Page
Hardie, Thomas Oswald
Piaggl, Eugene
Baum, Ralph Waldemar
Heath, Josiah Rieb
Bell, William J obneon
Hogan, Philip Barringer Piercy, Arthur Thomas
Reed, John Irwin
Blair, John
Hume, James Banyan
Rolleri, George Charles
Blakeley, Alborn James
Ingham, George Henry
Rowlands, Richard
Brooks, Adam
Jewell, Godfrey
Oain, Lemuel Barnett
;Jewett, James Richardson Sheldon, Henry Bradley
Stephens, Jackson Cowlin
Catpenter, Prentiss
Koblert, John
Swisler, Charles Albert
Oar.r, Joseph Gorham
Larned, Wellington
Theisen, J o~n
Celio, Carlo Gnieeppe
La Rae, J oho Samuel
Van Voorhies, Ralph Josiah
Oope, Benjamin Martin
Little, lliram
Oa.lberteon,Aod'w Thomp'o Markham, Cbarlee Edwin Varozza, Marco
Day, John l(artin
Martin; Frederick Courier Walling, John Thomas
Watt, Peter
De Denardi, Jamee
Martin, Samuel
Witmer, Elam Washington
Evins, Jeha
Mayer, Michael
Ewert, Emil
McLaughlin, Jae. Michael Zerga, Stefaoo-76. •
Gardella, Andrea
Miller, Walter Elmer
FELLOW CRAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Meehan, Marcellus Quintin-I.

Fox, Albert Sberman- 1.
WITHDRAWN:

Scheitlin, Marion Godfrey

Smith, H. W.i&oo-2.

DIED:

DIED:

Bogard, John Jaeper-1.

Redd , Robert Harrie (:s. A.)-1,

408

Returns of the Subordinate LodgetJ

(Ang. 1,

GIBSONV ILLE LODGE, No. 158.

WOODL4 -ND LODGE, No. 156.

GtlNlonvllle , Sierra CoantJ". .

Woodland, Yolo Co11nt7.

SW.tea Meetings, ll'riday of or next preuding Ftill Moon.
OFFICERS1

Francis Ellsworth Baker, Muter,
William Wirt Nelson, Seniol· Deacon,
Alvin Milton Witham, Senfor Warden,
George Wesley Hodge, Junior Detll)()JI,
Thaddens Stephens Spaulding, T. Ward., - - - - - - . Marshal.,
Temple Perrin Magee, Treaaurer,
Benjamin Franklin Harlan, l St
cU
James Kerson Smith, &cretary,
James Thomas Taylor,
f ewar '
Edward Glendening, 7}/ler.
PadMaater s•

Charles Btinoen Frost,
James Kerson Smith,
Francis Ellsworth Baker,

William York Browning,
Byron Ball,
Franklin Sylvester Freeman,

John Dickson Stephens,
William Henry Curson.

MASTER MASONS :

Armstrong, Edw. Milton
Everett, Louis Ph!llip
Miller, David
Baird, Edward Jasen
Farnham, Eraetne Sylvester Miller, Frederick
Banks, George
Frazer, Donald
Nethercott, Robert
Beaizley, Theophilus
Freeman, John Watte
Parker, Oscar Erwin
Beamer, Rich 'd Henderson Gaddie, Edward Everett
Parsons, Wickliffe Broadwell
Beebe, Charles Emmett
Garey, George Jones
Perkins, Calvin
Bird, John W
Garoutte, Jere. Monahan Perry, Henry
Browning, Robert Welch Hall, Andrew Jackson
Pierson, William Ellsworth
Burns, Daniel Munroe
Hardin, Ephraim
Prentiss, Charles Frederick
Cassell, William Frost
Hays, David
Rahm, Francis Marion
Church, Palen
Hays, Matthew
Rasmnssen, Hans Jacob W.
Chyte, Lonie
Hicks, Humphrey
Relyea, Simon Baker
Cohen, William
Howard, James Madison Richardso.n, Charles Wesley
Coil, Herbert Elmer
Howard, Stephen A.
Steiner, Adam Jackson
Coil, Le Roy
Howell, Marcus Worden Tobias, David
Cooper, Luther Blake
Kincheloe, Zachar'h Benson Troop, Oscar Fmnklin
Daniel, Henry Lewie
Lasky,· Aaron Marks
Tuck, Oharles Edward
Day, Charles Granville
Martin, James Thurston
Williams, John Calvert
Dlgga, Marshall
Maxwell, Henry J.
Wininger, Joseph Urban
Dryfns, Leopold
Michael, Joseph
Wright, John Henry-77.
Eynart, Milton
ENTERED .A.PPRENTIOES:

Grum, David
Boyle, John

Weaver, Nelson M-2.
WITHDRAWN:
Reindollar, Theodore Bnffington-2 ,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Charmak, Lonie

Knox, Frank Albert

409

'Io the Grand Lod,ge of Oalif<YY'nia.

1895.]

Pace, John Lonis- S.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or Mi:t preuding F:ul.l Moon.
OFFICERS I

John Wiegand, MasU!r,
Elias Gibbs Squier, Senior Deacon,
Henry Ramdohr, Senior Warden,
Robert Foster, Junior Deaoon,
David Philipp Thomas, Junior Warden, Philip Hector Fraaer, Marshal,
Roderick Sutherland, TreaBUl'fll',
Angust Holtz, ~ Stewar!U,
Leopold Henry Weil, Secretary,
Jacob BraBBel,
Jacob Soper Gould, Tyler.
Paet Maaters 1

Abel McFarland,
Boderick Sutherland,
Charles Edwin Overstreet,

Elias Gibbs Squier,
Benjamin Jacob Sammons,
MASTER MASONS :

McNee, Alexander
Meikle, David Chisholm
Meikle, William
Medcalf, Samuel
Owens, Owen
Spencer, Francis J\[elvian
Thorn, William Davis
Todd, Thomas Parker-S9.

Hampson, Henry Olay
Barris,Owen Chamberlain
Hogan, Martin
Jenkins, John West
MacConl, Alfred
McFarland, John Carr
McKenzie, Daniel
McKenzie, John Hector

Berry, .Tames Edwin
Bieler, Nicholas
Copeland, Isaac
Day, George Holland
Brmatinger, Caspar
Fisher, George
J'orbes, Hector
Ball, George Alexander
Hall, Lemmon

Jacob Soper Goold,
August Boltz.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

DIED:

Eveland, Joel-1.

Dw!nnell, Aaron Lorenzo-1.

PILOT HILL LODGE, No. 160.
Pilot Hill, EI Dorado Co11nt7.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or nezt preuding Full Moon.
OFFICERS •

- - - - · - - , Master,
Sanford David Diehl, Sen(or Wardeft,
William Archlbe.ld, Junior Warden,
Thomas Stevenson, Treaaurer,
Alcander John Bayley, Secrstary,

John Bishop, Senior Deacon,
LorlFtou Hale Lovejoy, Junior Deacon,
John Pray Cranmer, Marshal,
Wallace Boardman Plumb, l Steward.a,
William Hardin Matherly, I
James Priest Bayley, Tyler.
Paat Maater• •

.John Bishop,

Wllliam Bardin Matherly,

William Archibald •

MASTER MASONS :

Bayley, Alcander Alonzo
Breed, Elias William

Houston, Noah Beals
DIED :

Mortensen, Emest-1.

33

Story, DeWitt Clinton-U.

410

Returm of the Subordinai,e Lodges

(Aug. 1,

1895.]

To the Grand Lod,ge of California.

411

MASTER MASONS :

KEYSTONE LODGE, No. 161.
Milton, Calaveras County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Horace Bell Allen, Master,
William Snow, Senior Deacon,
Steven Decater Hildebrand, Sen. Warden, Charles Dominic Fontana, Junior Deacon,
Lemoel Wilcox, Junior Warden,
Wm. Henry Harrison Rhodes, Mar1hal,
Clinton Gall, :1Teaturer,
Niles Wm. Jorgen Jorgenson, l Stewarda,
Charles Wise Rhodes, Ser:retary,
Milton Boney,
f
William Rnffing De.es, Ohaplain,
Thomae Leander Willie, Tylw.
Past Maaten 1

John Manne! Baker,
Peter Sterling Robertson,

Caetagnctti, Jerome
De Martini, Antonio
Drew, Thomas
Franzinelli, Antonio
Gardelo, Benjamin Carlo

Gar6.eld, Levi
Trevethan, Thomae Henry
Jamee, William Matthew Watte, John
Lother, William Thompson Williams, Joseph
Scott, John Alexan~er
Wixson, Julius Sta.nton-27.
Trebilcock, Jamee

ENTERED APPRENTIOEt

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF pUES:

Murphy, Patrick-I.

Phipps, John Anthony-!.

EXCELSIOR LODGE, No. 166.

Charles Wise Rhodes,

Steven De cater Hildebrand,

MASTER MASONS:

Bisbee, Wilson Abner
Kendall, Joseph
Ortman, Berman
Brooke, Walter Ellsworth Klemp, Jacob
Sabin, Abner Moses
Case, William Henry
McCleoahan, Fred'k W11lter Stewart, John Daniele
Hendrick, Nathaniel Ward .Mercer, Robert Ainsworth Stroud, Tracy
Hoot, Daniel
Milner, John Frederick
Welle, Thomae-30.
Hoot, Marion Lee
FELLOW CRAFT :

DIBD:

Rice, John-1.

Jenkins, Robert Reed-1.

San Francleco. San Franclaco County.

Slated Meetings, fi'rBt Wednesaay in each month.
OFFICERS a

Harry Joseph Lask, Mailer,
William Wilson McNalr, Senior DeaoOfl,
Charles Parshall Overton, Sen. Warden, Walter Neat .Brunt, Junior Deacon,
Robert Johnston Longhery,.Jun. Warden, Eugene Morrie Dodson, Mar11hal,
Aaron Doad, '.lreaaurer,
Otto Frank Westphal,
{ Btewa.rda,
Theodore Edward Smith, Secretary,
Lester Howard Frank McKee, f .
George Washington Perkins, Tyler.
Paat Maatere 1

Theodore Edward Smith, Cortie George Kenyon,
Federico Goillermo Vo1111,
Stewart Menzies,
Frederick Conway Hensley, Franklin Pettingel Bull,
William Adams Stuart,
Arthur Rodgers,
William Aaron Dond,
.Alexaitder Martin,
Sam Houston Daniele,
Samuel Henry Perkins,
Wendell Easton,
A. Barack von Wefeleborg, John Menzies Smith,
Charles Henry Bryan,
John George Conrad,
John Jacob Stofeo,
Thoe. Thompson Atkinson, George Robert Armstrong, Washington Ayer.

HARMONY LODGE, No. 164.

MASTER MASONS;

Sierra City, Sierra County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Charles Castagna, MalJier,
George Scott Black, Senior Dea;:on,
Gnetav Nelson, Senior Warden,
John Sorocco, Junior Deacon,
John Avignon!, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - , Marshal,
Stephen Thomae, Treasurer,
. Isaac Thompson Mooney, l Stewarda,
William Cox, 8e'1retary,
Watt Ru~heP,
f
Ernest Frederick Bnsc)l, Tyler.
Paet Mastera•

Schnyler Nind Wilcox,
Angnet Christopher Busch,

George Scott Black,
Thomae Woon Williams,

William Cox,
Stephen Thomae.

.Adams, .Adolph
Bothin, Julius Christopher Cloak, Harry Bardell
Allen, Isaac Patten
Boutelle, William Clarence Clnff, William
A.mmerup, Gottlieb Adolph Boyson, Thomas
Conrad, David Andrew
Anthony, Edward Taylor Breidenbach, Emile Henry Cook, Jos. Carroll Hoff
Ballard, Jedediah Stow
Bremner, George St. John Creber, Walter
Banorort, Charles Edwin
Brown, Henry Eastman
Cressy, Albert
,larnhisel,Epeoetos Rodgers Brown, Iraeon Croner
Com ming, David
'Barth, August Hermann
Brown, James Aldrich
Cuthbert, John William
Belden, Henry Keney
Bruce, Jamee Henderson Danforth, Edward Putnam
Bishop, John Andrew
Bronings, John Benrv
Davis, Charles Lott
Boettcher, Pan!
Bockingham,AnreliusEyo'd Davis, Edward Lawrence
Bogen, William
Buffington, William Horace Davis, Herbert Arthur
Bohl.e, Henry
Chretien, John Merry
• Davie, Marks
Booth, Andrew George
Christesen, :irartin AognetC.Davie, William Henry

412

&tu1"1UJ of the SulJordinate Lod{/es

[Aug. 1,

Davis, Winfield Scott
Koster, John Andreas
Postlglionr, Giuseppi Maria
Deering, Frank Prentiss
Kron, Osear Jacob
Quevedo, Francisco
De Guerre,Albert Sydney J. Kuhls,Edw'd Gerhard Fre'k Rice, Riche.rd James
Deveny, Peter
Kohls, Frederick Augnst Rietzke, Gustav Charles
Dore, Benjamin
Lacy, Albert Ernest
Scheerer, Joseph
Dorr, Levi Lewis
Lank, Samuel James
Schetzel, Adolph Georg
Dow, Dexter Dean
Lavery, Joseph Gray
Scott, George
Dolf, Thomae Caron
LeCount, Joseph Palmer Scull, Charles
Dugan, Charles Edwin
Llewellyn, Reese
Shainwe.ld, Herman
Dwyer, Jamee Riche.rd
London, Henry
Shortridge, Samuel Morgan
Easton, George
Long, George Searley
Smith, Charles Robert
Eaton, Louie Page
Lovelace, Arthur Stuart
Spencer, Almon Carson
Edwards, Henry
Lucas, Walter Edward
Steinmetz, Theodore John
Edwards, Jae. Washington Lutgen, Charles Ferdinand 'stockfleth, John
Edwards, William
Lutkey, George
Stockwell, Jamee Henry
Eklund, John Pet.er
Marks, Jesse Emanuel
Stromberg, Bern'd Frithoft'
English, Edward
.MoCe.lftey, Thomas
Stroud, John Rodgers
Farnsworth, David Looke McDonald, Robert
Sumner, Frank William
Fernllo, David
McDonnell, Samuel Alex. Taber, Charles Wesley
FitzGerald,William Thomas McKenne., Joseph Dimond Taylor, Edwin Maetick
Foster, Colin Lawrence
.McLeod, George
Taylor, Frederick Sprowle
Gates, Emory Pease
McLaoghllo, David
Taylor, George McClellan
Graham, Thomae Dunnett Mehrtens, John Henry
Thomas, Charles Dirth
Gray, DeWitt Clinton
Michelsen, Peter
Tichenor, Austin Kent
Griffith, Edgar Milton
Miles, William Emmert
Tift'e.oy, William Zobel
Guest, Thoml\j! Frederick Mitchell, Robert Brent
Titus, Frank H
Hallett, Alonzo
:Mitchell, William James
Tolman, Rufus Jen kine
Halstead, Wm. Augustus Mix, f,ee Willie.msou
Trieet., Bernhard
Hannigan, Miehe.el Percival Moncisvai•, Charles
Umhsen, Gustave Henry
Harrold, Riche.rd
Moore, Arthur Weld
Vail, Aiken Riller
Bart,WilliamH'ry Harrison lloraghao, Joho Oweo
Vao Housen, William•
Healey, Beojamlo
Moraghan, llichael Bolan Van Schaick, Frank Chester
Hobbs,JohnKim b'I Carlt'n Morse, Jobo Frederick
Von Gieglingen, Arthur
Hogan, Henry Howard
Mnroh, Louis Augustine
We.de, William Wray
Hollister, Frank E
Murdock, George Hamilton Ward, Charles Herbert
Bromada, Adolph
Nash, Jason William
Welby, Charles William
Hughes, Jesse Pierce
Naootoo, George
Welch, Willard Choate, Jr.
Iredale, Charles Winslow Osborn, Fred'k Alexander Weozelb-urger, Chae.Wm.A.
Johosou, Frank
Osborn, Lamartine
Weetph"I, Henry William
Johnson, James Halvor
Overgaard, Boren Knudsen White, Horace Granville
Johnson, John Charles
Owen, Hogh James
White, Jone.than Lloyd
Kern, Morrie James
Parish, Mark
White, Joshua Bowe
Killip, Jasper Newton
Parnell, William Russell
Wileen, Charles Harold
Kincaid, J oho Evans
Pearson, Henry Haven
Wilson, Charles Rudd
Kirby, John Timothy
Perkins, Willis Thomas
Wolfe, Olsreoce Neve.rre
Kittredge, Addison Gage Pike, Alfred Pillsbury
Woods, Harry Frank
Knowles, Samuel Edward Pippy, George Henry
Woodward, Gideon Paschall
Koebig, Juline
Polaetri, Richard Stephen Wright, William James
Kohn, Isaack
-218.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Curtis, Frank Waldo

Nevin, Charles William-2.

1895.]

'Io the Grand Lo<lge of Oalifornia.

413

WITHDRAWN:

Bancroft, Harlow Palmer
De.vis, Winfield Scott

Evans, Luther John
Mcintosh, William Page

Street, Spencer Boyd-6.

RESTORED:

Bremner, George St. John

Kittredge, Addison Gage-2.

AFFILIATED:

Davis, Winfield Bcoti--1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYldENT OF DUES :

Baxter, Edward Hawes
Harris, Frederick Walter

Minor, Theodore Henry

Price, Arthur Faraday-4..

DIED:

Monti, Charles

Raun, Edward Theodore-2.

ALA.MEDA LODGE, No. 167.
Centreville, Alameda Count:y,

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Full M?on.
OFFICERS•

William Wallace Brier, Smi.o'I· Deacon,
Thomes Charles Huxley, Master,
Howard Overacker, Jr., .Juntor Dea(J(Jn,
'Edwin Whipple, Senic,,- Warden,
George Mead Hmith, Marshal,
Rodolph Volmer, Junior Waraen,
Adolph Wilhelm Laseen, l 13tewarda,
Edward Niehaus, Treasur111-,
Prosper Plourde,
Heory May, Seoreiary,
f
Rev. Francis Henry Robinson, Ohaplain, James Allen Trefry, Ty'lel-.
Paat Masteru

George Andrew Beebe,
Caleb Scott Haley,
Oliver Lyman Southwick,

Andrew Jackson Bare,
Thomas Charles Huxley,
Gordon Walter Willis,
Franois Henry Robinson,
Farley Benj. Granger, Jr., Heman Crowell.

Anderson, Martin Peter
Baker, Ellis WiUiam
Barry, William
Beard, John Lyman
Bis.cow, Richard Dearing
Blair, Thomas Henry
Ohrlstensen, Andrew
Clark, AIson Sherman
Olark, George Harvey
Oushiog, John Henry··
Davis, Richard Angustus
Dixon, Matthew William

Ehrman, Solomon
Emerson, George
Emerson, Henry Wyle
Fare, J oho 1'hrelfe.11
Farley, Newton Seymour
l!'ergodo, Emanuel Silvera
Ford, Henry Darnall
Ford, William Henry
Fowler, Herbert Eli
Goodw.la, Samuel
Goyette, Joho
Graw, Edward Arnold

MASTER MASONS:

Gregory, Henry Clay
Haley, Comfort
Haley, William Wallace
Hellwig, Frederick Philip
Hunting, Henry Bale
lsmert, Julius Edwin
Juog, William
Kay, William
Kelley, David Chalfant
Larkin, Stephen Amoe
Lebrecht, Adolph
Lee, Antonio

414

Retu'f"TllJ of the Suhordinate Lodges

McKeown, James
McLeod, Andrew Jackson
McLeod, James Monroe
Megahan, Ambrose
Miller, Charles
Morrison, Perry
Mortimer, William

(Aug. 1,

Overacker, How'd Ignatius Simpson, Ozias Buddington
Peacock, Geo. Washington Stanley, James
Ralph, Ivins Vernett
Sturges, Mahlon Beach
Salz, Sigmond
Terrill, John Wyron
Scott, Caleb Cook
Thom, Charles Jelfer~on
Shepardson, Chas. Cabanne Werner, Edward Peter
Silva, Manuel Francisco
Yates, William Andrew-76.
WITHDBAWN:

Finn, Alexander-L

1895.J

To the Grand Lo<lge of OaJ,ifornia.

415

Slckert, Frederick Wilhelm Thompson, Henry Bailey Waugh, David Francis
Wilcox, Edmond North
Sonberg, Erik Pederson
Tilton, Howard Quincy
Winkler, John Karl Gotlob
Stuart, William Baker
Voorhies, Daniel Goff
Wisnom, John-69.
Swenson, Carl
Wade, James
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Brittan, Morgan Lewis

Carter, William Bottomly-2.

WITHDRAWN:

DIED:

Craig, James-I.

Hanson, Albert--1.

DIED:

Bergman, Nathan

Jeffrey, William-2.

MISSION LODGE, No. 169.
San Franclaco, San Francisco County.

SAN MATEO LODGE, No. 168.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

Redwood City, San Mateo County.

Stated M~tings, Saturday of or n~t preceding Full Moon.
OFFJCER81

Benjamin Asbury Raokio, Maeter,
Jonathan White, Senior .Deacon,
William Headley, Seni<w Warden,
Llewellyn Beal Twombley, Jun • .Deacon,
William Hughes, Marshal,
George Carlos Rosd, Junior Warden,
Phil. Peregreen Chamberlain, 1reo.1W"er, Willard Wilson Bacon, l Stetoard.11,
George Winthrop Fox, Secretary,
John Wesley Poole,
f
Richard Foyester Rumbo!, 'l'yler:.
Paat Masten 1

Jonathan White,
George Winthrop Fox,

Phil. Peregreen Chamberlain,
Benjamin _Asbury Rankin,

Beeger, Henry
Behrens, Ladwig Philip
Bornstein, Herman
Breeze, James Patterson
Brown, Robert
Conover, John Simpson
Cook, Alonzo
Crowe, James
Oruw, William David
Eckhart, Charles Herman
Fisher, Leonard
Fisher, William Henry
Frank, Louis Joseph
Frank, William
Glllespie, James

Goodspeed, Isaac Roscoe McGarvey, Owen
Guerra, Giovanni
McPherson, John Andrew
Hague, Joseph Lincoln
Mills, David .1osiab
Hanson, Peter M11rcus
Otgen, Lorenz
H enwood, Arthur William Owen, Frank H.
Holden, George Wolcott Peers, Alexander
Hughes, James Shephard PentQn, J ease
Hunter, William
Pfeiffer, Louis
Jacobson, Charles
Pepkin, William Harvey
Kness, Philip
Poole, John
Leary, Denis Grimes
Ralston, John Thurston
Lindstrom, John
Reinhart, Jacob H enry
Lipp, William Henry
Robb, Jesse Calvin
Lund, William Christian
Ross, Joseph Louis
MacBain, Edward Gordon Sebastlani, Salvator

William Henry Gardner.

MASTER MASONS :

OFFICERS1

Cyrus Clinton Dow, Master,
Andrew Christensen , Senior Deaco"l,
_ _ _ _ - - , Senior Warden,
Fred Herbert Gibson, Junior Deac<>n,
James Andrew Wilson, Jun. Warden,
Adam Beck, Marshal,
George Daniel Flack, T1·eo.surer,
Roberta VandercoC1k, .
} Steward.II,
Charles Dimmock Bonker, Searetary,
Charles Edward Benedict,
Charles Gitsham, Tyler.'
Past Maateraa

Elias Rodecker,
Martin Van Boren Taylor, J ohn Reuben Hillman,
Jerome Spanlding,
Frederick Watson Foster, James Peverly Hodgdon,
Myron Hatch Renwick,
!'red.Adelbert Waterhouse, Henry Chase B~nker,
Parlan R Cunningham,
Marcelns Amencns Dorn, Williarii Wallace Moore,
Colnmbns Waterhouse,
J oseph Grafton Smith,
William Irwin,
Palmer Cox,
William Edmond Price,
John Alexander Apperson,
Frank Angastos Reynolds, Richard Hernng,
James Johnson.
John Wagner,
William Wilkins de Winton,
MASTER MASON!! :

Aldrich, Edmond Knight
Allen, Richard Spicer
Allen, Robert Edward
Anderson, Isaac
Armstrong, Rodolph
Amy, Winfield Scott
Arnold, Clarence Edmond
Atkinson, George Fred'k
Ayers, Charles L11mont
Babcock, Madison
Ban, Thaddeus
Barron, Arthur Walter
Baeney, Virgil Tyler

Baston, Joseph Gardner
Baxter, Matthew
Beamish, Percy
Berg, George Charles
Bigelow, Edwin Wells
Boelen, William Charles
Brace, Nathan
Bragg, Frank
Brodek, Robert Tuch
Brooks, Orion
Brown, James Henry
Browning, Jeremiah
Bruns, Henry Frederick

Bryan,Jaoob
Bnrt, William James
Carr, John George
Casey, David
Center, Hugh
Chapin, George Edward
Cheesman, Robert Bowen
Christiansen, Ernst Wm.C.
ClansRen, Daniel
Cobb, Edward Sigourney
Cobb, William Henry
Coffin, Dewey
Coffin, Rodolphns William

416

Returns of the Subordinate Lod,ges

(Aug. 1,

Collin.s, Thomas Cahall
Hall, Seth Paloe
Lodge, Robert Jamee
Connelly, James Edward Halsted, John Bernard
Logan, Milburn Bill
Conway, George
Haman, Henry
Lord, Thomas
Consioe, Richard Joseph Hambly, Harry Bishop
Love, Joseph Charles
Cooper, Herbert Harry
Hammit, John Nimrod
Luce, Samuel Andrews
Crisman, Chas. Lafayette Barnwel l, William
Lundstrom, Knot A. Magn's
Crocker, Isaac Berry
Hart, Frank William
Lyons, Seel Baker
Oross, Charles Vernon
Hnghton , John
Mack; Albert Christian
Colver, James Henry
Bayes, Benjamin West
MacLach lan, Johli
Cuthbertlloo, Walter Jones Headrick , Andrew Johnson Magee, John
Alexaode r,Jr.
Curry, John Eui'eoe
Hellwig,C arl Fred'kHe l'.C, Mano, Patrick James
Cortis, John Morrison
Hemstree t, Albert David Maooiog, Denoia Rich'dson
Dahler,H eory .Mathias G. Hermann , Emil Americos Maoodre ll,
Harry
Daley, Robert Hogh
Biggins, Robert
Maurice, Felix Winfield
Daly, John Donald
Hill, Truman Lefever
Main, William Henry
Day, Charles Austin
Hitch, Edward 'Everett
Mathews , George Monroe
Day, Henry Lucas
Hitchcox , Henry
McCarty, James
Day, Thomas Henry
Hock, Henry
McCarty, Louis Phillipe
Daywalt, GeorJl'e Wash'too Houston, Carter
McDonald, William .
Decker, Charles William Bowe, Alvin Jared
McKenzie, Albert William
Diserens, Frederick
Howell, Josiah Ro1•laod
McKioooo, Dooald
Domlognez,Richard Arthur Hoyer, Jacob Fred'k Wm. McKnew,
Henry Lee
Douglass,.George Willard Hurlburt , Reuben Preston McLachl an,
Thos. Mitchell
Driscoll, James Edward
Butchios oo, John
McLay, George Binney
Drnmmond, Mark
Ingraham , John Sturgis
MoMurray, John Park
Dunbar, William
Jaiger, Henry Corbett
McPbuo, William, Jr.
Duncan, Benjamin Beatty Janes, Charles Meiggs
McQnofd, Joseph
Eberle, Adam Winfield
Johns, Josiah
Mears, Harry Wilder
Ede, William
Johnston , George
Mehrtens, John Kroikamp
Einfeldt, Detlef Johannis Jones, Edward Thomas
Mennie, Alexande r
Elliott, Wm. Woodwo rth Jouee, Frederic k Charles Miller, John
Alexa.oder
Engliah, John Francis
Jooes, Joho Bates
Miller, Joho Wallace
Evaos, Chester Hepbnro
Jones, John Richard
Morine, Edgar Seymore
Ewell, Augostus Hyde
Jones, Samuel.A
Newkirk, Daoiel Irwio
Fairbank s, Rolla Douthill Jones, Thomas
Nisbet, James Napier
Fairfield, Marshall
Jooes, William Gustus
Noonan, Edward
Fairgriev e, William
Jourdeo, Joseph Daniel
Oehoe, Frederic k
Farrell, William
Kaoe, John Frederick
Ogden, Benjamin Franklin
Fearn, Walter Henry
Kenne, Frank George
O'Keefee , Jeremiah
Fifield, Daniel Black
Kennedy , Jamee Kelty
Parmelee , James Edward
Fisher, Charles Emmons
Keyser, Paul
Patterson , George Wm.Hill
Floyd, William Ervin
Keystoo, James Wood
Patterso n, James Hunter
Forrest, Robert McClelland Keyston, William Donald Paterson ,
William
Frederlcks,WilliamGodfrey Killgore, Robert Read
Patten, Henry
Gaines, Rafus Henry
King, Dennis Wyckolf
PegJI', Isaac Burnham
Giuro, Paul
Klein, John Malhias
Peabody , Edward
Glennon, Patrick Joseph Knea&B, Edward Daniel
Periam, Charles James
Goodman, William Graves Konrad, Joseph Leopold Perlam, John
Thomas
Gostlin, Thomas
Kress, Augustus Berman Petersen , :Mathew
Grant, James Cameron
Laue, William
Phillips, Charles Theodore
Grantlan d, John
Lawson, Enoch
Ponder, John Henry
Green, Morris
Lewis, Oscar
Prince, Henry Gitman
Haines, Samuel Newell
Lindstrom, John Francis
Quackenbush, Sam'l Henry

To the (hand Lodge of OaUfornia..

1895.]

417

• 'rippetts, George Frederic ks
S mlU!, Clarence Mark
· W
Sm'tth, David Charles, Jr. Tacker, Edwm
arren
"'mith, James
Vanatta, Frank Toi1er
° oboslay, Julias
L
·
Von Hartin, ew1s
S
· k
Wacker, Char Ies F re dertc
Somers, Harvey Cortis
Wallis, Samuel Char 1es
Soper, Joseph Henry
"padoni, Joseph
Weaver, Hammon d Ship1ey
"
Wesson, Joseph William
Spark, John
·
Spear' Alexander Fulton West, John Charles
Westawa y, William Charles
Spe ar, Lewis Eugene .
·
Staab, Henry Gnstav
Westfield, Robert
e,
John
Thomas
White, Oscar w·11·
Ston
1 iam
Sturges, Obarles William Wiley, Isaac
summerh ayes Wm. Ruggle Williams, Eben Baker
•
Swenson , John Augustus Wilson, Johu
Sehloe~el,Fred.Edw.Ang'st Tabrett, Henry Charles
Wingate, Jas. ~eanmont N.
Scott Edwin George
Taylor, George Howes
Woerner , .Dav1d
Beve:aoce Isaac Hillman Terry, Horatio Proctor
Wood, John
Shattuck , Charles Benton Thomas, William Henry
Woodward'.Archlmedes B.
J h A
Thompson George
Worden, Ehsha Case
S~epston,J ho nDi d . h
Thompso n' Hans
Zimmerman, Daniel Basler
Siemers, o o e rte
•
'
-296.
Skivingtoo, John Franklin Thomsen, Samuel Meha.ftY

Quinlan, James Henry
.
Raabe, Frederick WilI1am
Ralston, Gavin
Ramsden , Thomas
Baich, Frederic k William
Reis, John O'Ne al
Rickett, Edward Dav Is
Roberts, Ellis
Rodin, Charles FriedoIPh
Rood, Frank Henry
Root, Ellis James
Ross, Hugh Cobbao
Roy, John Alexande r
.
Salmond, co1·m
Scheel Heinrich

FELLOW O.RAFT :

Mahler, Martin- I.
ENTERED APPRENT ICES:

Bachtel, Warren Leland
Cond'oo, Michael Daniel
Hock, Reary Tobias

Sims, John Fletcher
Smith, Alphooso Budd

Stein, Louis Vincent de
Wilson, Byron Hugh-7.

WITHDR AWN:

Durgin, Frank Ward
Edwards, .A.lieu
Kelley, Henry

Simmons, Maurice Joseph
Taede, Hans

Ayers, Charles Lamont
Davies, Thomas Abraham

Ewer, Warren Baxter
MacHngh, John

Williams, Fred Waldo
Wilson, John Heory-7 .

BUBPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUEB:

McDonald, Benjamin L
Pickles, Edmund -6.

RESTORE D:

Ayers, Charles Lamont- 1.
DIED:

Caldwell, Joseph M
Ebbesoo, Johan Petter

34

McAleer, Edward Charles , Terrill, Charles Ca.rroll-5-.
Smith, William Alexander

418

Returm of the SvJJordinate Lodges

(Aug. 1,

1895.]

1.o the Grand Lodge of OaJ;ijornia.

419

Past lllaateru

ELK GROVE LODGE. No. 173.
Elk Grove, Sacramen to County,

Stated Meetings, Saturday of OT ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER S•

Henry Alltncker, Ma11ter,
Arthnr Delos Gage, Senior Deacon,
Thaddens Cortis McConnell, Sen. Warden, George Sh,Jlw Williamson, Junior Deacon,
Arthnr Irvine Gray, Junior Warden,
John Nichole Andrews, Marahal,
James Thomas Cbinnick, 7T81Uurer,
Isaac Lake Freeman,}
·
L ew1s
· B ower, 8 ecretary,
- - - - - , 8 telDards,
Edward Edmond Barry, Tyler.
Pa•t lllaatera1

Thomas McConnell,
Silas Clark Stewart,

Lewis Bower,
Isaao Lake Freeman,

Henry Alltncker,
Harry Leo Stich.

MASTER. MASONS:

Beckley, Pyrine Ripley
Bradford, Jam es Barton
Bradford, William Barton
Brown, Frank Leroy
Cbrestesen, Robert
Elder, James Andrew
Elliott, Christopher Adam
Elliott, John
Fay, Newton Morray

Freeman, Clar·kson Pike
Richards, John
Gray, 'Alexander Isaac
Robertson, Henry
Herbert, Lonis
Ross, George Benton
Hoover,BenjaminVanZandtStepbeneon, Edward George
Kelly, Jamee Monroe
Stephenson, Igal Kennedy
Kennard, Cyrus Brackett Stephenson, William Thomas
Mabone, Robert Henry
Stewart, Norman Ives
Mealer, Thomas Jefferson Wood, Alfred Henry-39.
McKee, Jamee Anderson

ENTERED APPRENTIC E :

RESTORED :

Gia.no, Peter-I.

Chrestesen, Robert-I.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Crameie, Wllllam-1.

Bugh Harrison Bell.

John Milton Hinkson,

Jnlio Ambrose Gessler,
William Jennings,

MASTER MASONS: '

Evans, Robert
Logomasino, Lazzaro

Marchand, Chas. Harrison
Morris, Thomas

Wilbur, Sbadrach Weymouth
-17.

ENTERED APPRENTIC E:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PA.YMEN'r OF DUES :

Johnston, Frank Fiodlej-1.

Jones, William Thomas-I.

ANTIOC H LODGE , No. 175.
Antioch, Contra Coat& County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of OT ne:i:t aucceeding Full Moon.
OFFICER S1

Jamee Carier, Ma11ter,
Henry Foller Beede, Ssntor Deacon,
Solon Thayer Metcalf, Senior Warden, Rasmne Emil Hansen, Junior Deacon,
Worth Scott George, Junfor Warden,
Charles Franklin Montgomery, Mcirahal,
John Collins Roose, 7hlaaurer,
Frederick Wilkening, l steward.I
Josiah Rio Baker, Secretary,
Joseph Francis Raney,f
'
John Gibson Chase, Tyler.
Paet Masten:

Francis Williams,
Henry Faller Beede,
Manuel Cassada Parkinson,
Joshua Plummer Abbott, Anderaon Corbon Hartley, Ge.o rge Creighton Wrig\\t,
Nathaniel Woodhull Smith, Charles Mortimer Belshaw, James Carter.
Josiah Rio Baker,
MASTER MA.SONS:

DRYTO WN LODGE , No. 174.
Drytown, Amador County.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or nat 11Uccwling Full Moon.

Miller, George
Smith, Robert Tangier
Cole, James Cairns
:Minaker, George Alexander Storey, Walter
Dobyns, William Renry
Foreman, William Riddle Nellis, Walter
Tyler, Nathaniel Austin
Norman, John
Veale, Riche.rd Raines, Jr.
Grant, Peter Buell
Hnngerford, Frank :Mason Rhoades, John Charles
Walton, Mark Anthony
Rogers, Orlando Newton
Jacobs, Morris Harris
Yets, Ricbard-37 .
Layne, Edward Reynolds
FELLOW CRAFTS :

ENTERED APPRENTIC ES:

OFFICER S a

Julio Ambrose Gessler, Maater,
Thomas Hooychorcb, Sentor DeacOfl,
John Milton Hinkson, Senior Warden, George Choat Jennings, Junior DeaCOfl,
Thomas Silva, Junior Warden,
William Jennings, Marsh.al,
Calder Haymond Misner, 7reasurer,
John Venning,
l Stew dB
Allen Lee McWayoe, Secreta<y,
William Frederick Westover, f
ar '
Lonie Henk, Tyler.

Rattan, Frank-2.

'..Mont1omery, Curtis Franklin
Lappa, Charles

C&88elman, William James

Walker, Andrew-3.

RESTORED :

Dobyns, William Renry

Wright, George Crei1hton- 2.
AFFILIATE D:

De Witt, John.Wall ace-L

420

Returns of the Subordinate LodgM

[Aug. 1,

WITHDRAWN:

De Witt, John We.Ue.ce

Foster, Granville Franklin

Morgana, Morge.n-8.

~U!IPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Carter, Thomas Orlando
De.rhy, Daniel Gibson

McKellips, Stephen Horace
Smith, George We.lle.ce

Wightman, Joel De.vid
~.

DIED:

George, Fre.nk-1.

To the (}rand .Lo<lqe of Oaliforwia.

1895.]

421

Larkins, Geo. We.shington :Mittendorf, Lewis Ernest Stiles, William Heme.n
Leisenring, Fred'k Gideon Motfe.U, James
Stone, David P
Leone.rd,Je.mes Christopher Morgan, Josiah Wheeler Te.ft, Daniel Asa
Littlejohn, James Henry
Morse, Arthur Perry
Taylor, Ambrose
Longmire, Rufus Elbert
Oster, Frank Frederick
Thomlls, John l:le.moel
Lyster, William Grafton
Parker, Robert Brye.oi
Troll, Walter Butler
Me.ckecknie, Charles Alex. Perley, John Morrell
Umbs, Jesse
Marks, Joseph
Pierce, George Strunk ·
Waters, Byron Brewster
)[cCre.cken John William Randle, Franklin Gilder
Wheeler, Frank
lloColloog~, Wm. Pinkney Skinner, William Wright Wilson, James .Monroe
Miehe.els, Me.Ile.chi Winfield Boole, Wm. Lloyd Garrison Wilson, Thomas Jetf~rson
Miller, George Washington Sprott, Thomas William
Yoong, George Aostm
lliller, William Lewie
Sterns, Albert Henry
Zombro, Sumpter F-103.
FELLOW ORAFTB:

Torner, John Ole.rk-S.

Lewis, Lewis

Je.cobe, William D

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

PH<ENIX LODGE, No. 178.

Boe.rdme.n,Sydney Rome.ate O' Donnell, Martin Wllliam Te.lme.dge, William Seymour
Upson, Orrin Alve.-8.
Oe.rit, Jean Alfonso
Roberts, Horace Jewell
Clark, John De.vie
Sle.op;bter, Fenton Mercer

San Bernardino, San Bernardino Co-ty.

Stated Mee.tings, first. Monday in each 1/Wnth.

RESTORED:

OFFJCERS1

Trnll, Walter BoUer.-1.

Milford Byron Terre.sa, Maller,
Andrew Pe.rt, Senior Deacon,
John"Fre.nklinJobnaon,Jr. , Sen. Ward., Harry Ohe.rles Howle.ad, Ju,;ior Deaoon,
We.lter Hubba.rd, Junior Warden,
Henry A. Keller, Marshal,
Lewis Je.oobe, Tre1J11Urer,
Robert Poppett,
l
di
Daniel Taylor Brummett, Secretary,
Wilbur Ohe.noing Pearse, l
ar '
George Lord, Ohap"lo.in,
Edward Alexander Smith {of Rising Sun Lodge, No. B, Ft. Scott, Ke.n.), Tyler.

stew

Paat Masten:

Horace Cowen Rolfe,
Iee.e.c Re.phe.el Bronn,
George Lord,
John Caleb King,

Sydney Mee,
Fre.nk Hooker M.ago1Hn,
Je.mes Alexander Hibson, Milford Byron Terre.ss,
Thome.a Jone.than Wilson, J eremie.h Drake Oost~rhoot.
Henry A. Keller,

WITHDRAWN:

Hanna., John Bennett
Jackson, Joseph Miller

Be.om, Je.oob
Borgese, Moeee

Le. Rne, Jeremiah
Tooker, Simon Edward-6.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

De.vis, Milo Eugene
De.wner, Abner John
Kramer, Moritz
Nloolson, John

Pe.penbaneen, Henry
Pllrie, Andrew Bailey
Porter, William Robert

Rao, Edward Julius
Roberts, Orlando Perry
Waite, Sydney Pe.ine-10.

DIED:

Oook, William Wilson-1.

MASTER MASONS :

Ade.ms, James Edwin
Oole, George Benjamin
Henderson, Wm; McDonald
Aldridge, David Lehigh
Oolliver, Jetrerson Thomas Herold, Andrew Dongle.es
Andreson, John
Conway, Miehe.el
Holmes, Albert Osborn
Baker, Joseph Allen
Davidson, Alonzo Stedman Holt, Amos Kendall
Barton, John William
De.oust, Simeon
Hook, John
Biestme.n, Berne.rd
Desmond, LonisAlexe.nder Hooper, William Swayze
Blair, William Jackson
Ericson, Eric Theodore
Bobbe.rd, Anthony Gerba.rd
Bre.ssfleld, William Leone.rd Folks, Stephen Dees.tor
Hughes, Joseph Harrison
Brown, Asbel.Green
Fostu, Alfred Brie.n
Je.mes, Benje.min Franklin
Brown, Nelson H
He.rner,Moses B
· Johnson, Ammi Keyes
Brown, Joseph
Goodwill, Tbome.s Mitchell Johnson, Je.mes Hunter
Borkbe.rt, John B
Grow, Se.mnel Lorenzo
Jorde.a, Henry John
Ole.rk, Hiram
Guthrie, Harison Hazlett Kennedy, Robert James
Ole.rk, Horace
He.He, Smith Cook
Knapp, Calvin Ree.son
Oole, Qhe.rles Pe.vis
He.ley, Edwin Willis
Knox, John Thompson

MENDOCINO LODGE, No.~ 179.
Mendocino, Mendocino CJonnty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Walter Morison Stone, Senior Deaoon,
C9.88imer Jackson Woods, Master,
Pitman Colle.rd Hargraves, Sen. Warde.fl, Charles Thomas Gray, Junior Deacon,
John Lnther Clark, Marsha~
Done.Id Sangster, Jur.'im Wai·den,
Willis Alfonso Keller, l StetDa.rda,
Henry Herbert Janis, 7reaaurer,
John Harrison Taylor, r
Charles Oscar Pe.eke.rd, Secretary,
Leone.rd Joel Allen, Tyler.
William Heeser, Ohap"lo.in,

422

Returns of the Stibordi,nate Lodgea

[Ang. 1,

Frederick William Dart,
William Reeser,
Oassimer Jackson Woods.

MASTER MASONS :

Ayers, Samuel L.
Dither, Laurance Hartson
Carpenter, John Jacob
Corrigan, James Samner
Dart, J osepb Howe
Donahue, Edward John
Doyle, James
Flood, Emery Newell
Flood, Henry Wiiliam
Fo.f., Henry Malcom
Grindle, Joshua
Hagenmeye r, Gebhard
Harvey, John Duncan
Haseltine, Martin M
Hoak, Newman Irvine

Richards, Tboma11Jelferson
Hulf, Obarles E.
Robinson, Thoe. Alexander
Keen, James Edward
Rush"mg, Enoch Dee.sing
Kiser, Aaron
Rasbing, Thomas S
Kiser, Mathew
Sanders, George Henry
Lyman, Arthur S
Scott, James Preston
MacDonald, John
severance, Frank Biiiings
Marson, John Peter
McDonald, John Kenneth Sissons, John B.
Smith, George Canning
McKay, Andrew
Stukey, Simon Fiiimore
Newman, Andrew
Turner, Wllliam Price
Perry, John Edward
Weiss, Frederick
Petersen, James Louis
Petersen, Thomas Heinrich Williams, Sidney
Wllllams, William Lewis
Reilly, James Edward
Rewcastle, James Goodie Woodrulf, Chester-65 .
ENTERED A..PPRENTIOES ;

McKay, Angus-2•

Friel, Anthony

"!ITHDRAW .N:

Le Clair, Noel

To the Grand Lodge of OaU(ornia.

423

MASTER MASONS:

Paet Maaten1

Frederick Halling,
Benj. Almon Pa.ddleford,
John Peter Linberg,
William Troe Wallace,
William Andrew McOornack, Clarence Cllmer White,
James William Fraser,

1895.l

McDonald, John-2.
DIED:

Gorman, Frank-I.

Heineken, Herman Albert Pride, Hiram Wroe
Adams, John Quincy
Reed, Olarence Ellsworth
Hoag, James W.
Allen, Rufus Franklin
Huntlngton ,HoraceHn tch's Risk, David Rankin
Anderson, Alexander
Roberts, Henry John
Jones, Carroll ·
Baar, John
Rohrer, Charles Frederick
Johnson, John Eber
Baxter, George Perkins
Schlicker, Frederick
Kahn, Achille
Benson, William
Sharpe, Chauncey Oscar
Lackey, Alexander
,Bernhard, lsaao
Lapham, William Wallace Sicgley,IOharles Edward
Berri, Vittore
Lauritzen, J eppe Christian Slayton, John Josiah
Bonnitti, Luca
Smith, Asbnrv Gilbert
Lawler, John
Bowles, Joseph .Martin
Spotswood, Andrew
Markwell, Henry Booth
Brooke, Sylvester.
Atelger, Peter Joseph
Martin, Wi!Uam
Brown, Robert Henry
Sweed, Philip
McGuire, Thomas
Button, Isaac Vail
Sykes, Joseph Smith
.McKillop, Dugald
Camplgli, Charles
·raylor, Philo Ross
Chapman, William Arthnr McMartin. John Alex.
Tomasini, Louis
Merritt, John
Oollins, Frank Miller
Tomasini, Mateo
Miiis, Charles Newton
Oorllss, Albert.
Torr, Charles Lafayette
Mills, William Andrew
De Bernardi, Evaristo
Tupper, John Henry
Mitchener, Jonathan
Dreyfuss, Edward
Tuttle, Samuel Johnson
Newburg, Morris
l>unton, Oscar
Nichols, '.thomas Wllliam Van Bebber, Peter
Giacomini, Natale
Van Marter, William Henry
Graham, Jonathan Harvey Noble, Jesse Wadkins·
Overton, William Meredith Wakefield, Orin Lewis
Grandi, Salvator
Weston, Harry Mccurdy
Parrish, David Franklin
Grant, Henry Delano
Weston, Henry Little
Gross, Ludwig Lamprecht Phillips, Jacob William
Whiting, Henry Chester
Pitts, Isaac Jasper
Grover, Benjamin Percy
W!ckersham,Fred'k Ang'tns
Plass, Philip Henry
Hamilton, Mathew
Zook°, Francis Kortz-104..
llubrouck, Hiram Brown Poehlman, Conrad
Haskell, William Barnabas
ENTERED APPRENTIO ES:

Whi~. J ohn-2.

Percy, Manuel Alvey

--

RESTORED :

WITHDRAWN:

Jones, Carroll-1.

Shearer, William Piper-1.

SUSPENDED FOK NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

ARCTU RUS LODGE , No. 180.

Jacobs, Thomas Robert Kynock, George Washlngto n-2.

Petaluma . Sonoma Co-t;y.

DIED:

Stated Meeting1, 'l'lmraday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Light, Elisha

Pierce, William Solomon (B. "4)-2.

OFFICER S a

Thomas MacOlay Senior De~con
Frank Kavanagh Lippitt, Ma6ter,
'
Edward Wm.MervynEvans,Sen. Warden, William James Chesne Jun·
wr Deacon,
Samuel M~Elvain. Norton, Jun. Warden, William Wilder, Mars~l
,
'
John Columbus Boot
H~n~y Parne Brainerd, 7reaaurer,
William Alexander ~own t!tewarda,
W'.ll~am Wade Ohapman, Secretary,
'
James Singley, Tyler.
W11I1am Henry Darden, Ohaplain,
Paet Masters 1
Benjamin Franklin Tuttle, Edward Spalding Lippitt,
James Singley,
Henry Paine Brainerd,
.Marcos Dyatbeka Goshen, James Lockridge Dfnwlddie,

RUSSIA N RIVER LODGE , No. 181.
Windsor, Sonoma Co-t;y.

f

&ated Meetinga, B_atu.rda:y of or next imcceeding Full Moon.

Lyman 0 Dyce,
William Roe Veale,
Lyman Green.

Oharies Angustus Pool, Senf.or Deacon,
Janies Henry Laughlin, Mcuter,
William Adam Esttngtiausen, 8. Warden, George Rergher Sater, Jun. Deacon,
George Tyler Trowbridge, Mar•hal,
John Leslie, Junior Warden,
Edward Grant Walk, l Stewarda,
:6.tlas Thompson Hembree, Tre"eurer,
f
John Anton Kruse,
Andrew Jackson Hembree, StJCr'ttary,
William Denton Looney, Tyl.er.
Benjamin Clark, Ohaplain,

OFFICER S a

424

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

To the (frand Lo<lge of California.

1895.]

Palll Maater a 1

Edwin Harrison Barnes,
Benjamin Clark,
Thomas McQuiston,

Thomas Jamison Barnes,
Henry Jackson Pool,
John Leslie,

425

MASTER MA.BON 1

Wm. Adam Estinghauaen,
George Tyler Trowbridge,
Thomas Miller Yates.

MASTER MASONS :

Abshire, Alfred 0
Hall, Rufus Lee
Mitchell, Robert Thomas
Briggs, Frank
Higby, Lucius Lyman
Myers, James Wilson
Briggs, Hiram
Holler, Charles Aogostos Pool, Frank Johnson
Calhoon, John Washington Laughlin, Grant Alexander
Russell, Hugh Alexander
Duvall, Joseph James
Legg, Amos
Wilds, George Edward
Emery, Fred Artemas
Maddox, Lorenzo Dow
Yates, John William
Fulton, Thomas
Mather, John
Yoong, John Sanford -40.
Graham, James William
Misener, Albert Fillmore
SUSPEN DED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

·cralg, James David- 1.
ENTERED APPREN TICES :

Commins, Thomas Jefferson
Sherer, Dillon

Allardt, William
Brockman, John Henry

Simmons, Jonath an-5.

WITHD RAWN:

Zumwalt, Marion -2.

Oraig, James David

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Glllaspy, Henry Bostwick

Knox, George Washington L1throp,Charles John-3 .
DIED:

Clarke, William John

Dixon, Martin Van Boren (11 . .&..)-2.

Myers, Dillon Presto n-I.

CLEA R LAK E LODG E, No. 183.
· Lower Lake, Lake County .

MER IDIA N LODG E, No. 182.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.

Colleg e City, Cola- County .

Stated Meeting1, Saturd ay of or nerd preceding Full Moon.
OFFIC ER!h

Francis .Tobr,Ste ele, Master,
James Hamilton Sherer, Sen. Warde11,
George W Moore, Jun. Warden,
Jnlins Martin, Treasurer,
.John Henry Harpham, Seoreta.ry,
- - - - - - - , Ohaplain,

Oay Nelson Marders, Senior D11acon,
Solomon Loorya, Junior Deaaon,
William John Stewar t, Marlhal,

= =-:

~Swards,

John Henry·M yers, '111Zer.

Past Maater a:

Jnlins Martin,
William Jahn Stewart ,

John Henry Harpham,

OFFIC EllS1

Francis Henry Mortimer Kelson, Sr. Dea.,
Daniel Jones, Master,
. G
J ior De oon
·Murdock Alfred Oraig, Senior Warden, Laban Hard1~g
rowe 11. • un
a •
·
W"lson Jun\or Warden William Harrison Connmg
Henry H arr1son
ham, Marsh.al,
1
•
•
•
w
l
John Palatine; 77-easurer,
George W~s~mgton ayne, f Stewards,
Luke Evans, Seoretarl},
Herber t Wilham Brewer, .
Thomas Lorenzo Castellaw, Tyl.er.
Past Maater aa
Laban Hardin g Growell,
Henry Harrison Wilson,
Wm. Harriso n Cunningham,

William Jardin Clayton .

MASTER MASONS :

Cay Nelson Marde rs-'·

MASTER MASONS:

Argyle, John Frederi ck
Israel, Frank Sherman
Peake, Edwin Henry
Betterto n, Charles Albert Johns, George Washington
Peart, Edmond Franchevllle
Botts, Thomas Allen
King, Thomas Carroll
Simons, Oscar Augustus
Oain, Isaac Newton
Knox, Ellis Landon
Stewar t, Charles Whitley
Davis, Joseph Addison
Levy, David Lonis
Tolson, William Dement
Decker, Jasper Newton
Laogenoor, John Hamilton Vaughan, John Price
Euler; John
Laogenoor, Rufus Samuel Ward, John Cannedy
Gillaspy, John Robert
Locke, Charles Henry
West, Charles Edward
Gillaspy, Robert Cleveland McElroy, Jackson ·
White, John Cobb
Green, Samuel Francis
Mitchell, Abram Hedding Wilkins, Robert W.-40.
Hassler , William Richard

Anderson, Joseph Henry
Arbotbnot,Pbil. Stewar t :M..
Bell, Joseph Engen~
Forbes, George
Hogan, William Mars

Hughs, Henry
Kennedy, Hiram
Levy, Morris
Morre 11, Albert Fairfield
Pardee, Geo. Washington

Parkes, Horace Fleming
Rawson, William Bosfteld
Small, James John
Bmllh, William Henry
Stobbs, Charles -27.

ENTERE D APPREN TICE:

William Blann- 1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Davis, John Gordon

35

Jackson, John Lee

Linck, Ch•rles Fred-S .

426

Ret":'rns of the Subordinate Lodg~

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of California

427

MASTER MA!iONS:

SIERRA VALLEY LODGE, No. 184.
Sierra Valley, Sierra Coant:v.

Stated Mutinga, Wedne&day oj or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Edmnnd Higgins Hamlen, MaBl,er,
Thomas Lebroke, Senior Deacon,
George Wood, Sentor Warden,
Peter Oleson, Junior Deaoon,
Willium Henry Chandler, Junior Warden, Francis Marion Rowland, Mar1hal,
Linus Dolley, Treasurer,
Maurice Pritchard, l
William Cromwell Lemmon, Secretary, Albert S Nichols, f
1,
Joseph Johnson Berry (of North Star Lo()ge, No. 12, Richmond, Vt.), Tyler.

Branson, Isaac
· Horgan, William
Perkins, Charles Edward
Brennan, George Patrick Jacob, Wendel!
Spencer, David Look
Wade, Sylvaoos Raynor
Castle, Curtis Harvey
Lancaster, Kemp .
Corbaley,Howard RaymondMliloney, 811.muel Jiickson Whelpton, Charle•
Woodin, John Sayward-33.
Goodwio,Fr'cis Willoughby Morrell, Hogh
Grey, Ninfa Edward
Newfield, Aaron
.SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DOES:

Cnretoo, John Wesley-1.

Sreward

Edmond Higgins Hamlen,
Wm. Cromwell Lemmon,

Elipbalet Lewis Case,

Wallace Oscar Buckland.

EVENING STAR .LODGE, No. 186.
Etna .Uillo, Shld.yoa Coanty.

MASTER MASONS :

Arnold, Herbert Bissell
Hubbard, Wilber Fisk
Fox, Charles Pliny
Nichols, Herbert Osma
Haselton, Ambrose Mason Olsen, Jacob John
Howk, Johnnie Simeon
Patterson, David B

Peck, William Ottoay
Strang, Jared
Toomy, John Shriver
Wilsey, J oho Frederick-2'.

SURPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Danforth, Edmnod-1.

Stated Mtei111ga, fourth Saturday in each mo11th.
OFFICERS1

Edwin William Bathurst, Master,
Charles Wilber Nuttinft, Senior DetWon,
Charles William Kist, Senior Warden,
James Robert Hughes, Junior .!Jeacon,
William Thomas Dawson, Jun. Warden, John Wallace McBride, Mar1hal,
John Howe Adams, Treasurer,
Hans Hansen,
Stewards,
George Hostetter,
Hartin Marx, Seoretary,
John Grant, Tyler.

l

Pallt Ma11ten11

Hartin Marx,
John Wallace McBride,
Lawrence Hislop Johnston,
Orson Vale.ntine Green,

CLAIBORNE LODGE, No. 185.
Point Arena, Mendocino Coanty.

Sta~d Meetinga, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Lambert Lewis Archibald, Master,
John Crosby Lane, Senior Deacon,
Harold Philbric Chalfant, Sen. Warden, Eligha Bishop, Junior D11acon,
Emmet Potter Gilmore, Junior Warden, William Bascomb Haskell, Mar•hal,
Antonio Stornetta, 7reasurer,
Robert S. Baker Hathaway, l Stewards,
Joseph Crockett Halliday, Secretary,
Gabriel Johnson,
f
Forestns Percival Phelps, Tyler.
Pa•t Ma11ten 1

Aaron Chalfant,
Soren Iveraoo,
William O'Connell,

Engeoe William Oalloon, Luther Redemeyer,
J oho Crosby Lane,
William Bascomb Haskell.
Jose.Ph Crockett Halliday,

John Grant,
John Bowe Adams,
Charles William Kisi,
Edwin William Bathnrst,
Charles Wilber Nutting, George Cummir;igs Spooner.
Fred. George Smith,
MASTER MASONS:

Baird, Charles
Davidson, Jeremiah
Diggles, James Alden
Farrington, Stephen
Geney, Henry
Bugbee, John Striker
Hughes, Lewis
Isaacs, .Walter

Redemeyer,Christ'o Fred'k
Jenner, Charles
Smith, George
Little, James Berkeley
Loring, Frederick Hayden Swain, William Cartwright
Taylor, Robert Pey
Messner, J oho Martin
Tonkios, James Bryant
Nicolet, Charles
Parker, Alexander
Wallis, Albert
Parker, Alexander, Jr.
Wilsoµ, Lucine Stafford-88.
Parker, John
WITHDRAWN:

Campbell, Remembrance Hnghes

Sharpe, Chauncey Oscar-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON.PAYMENT OF DUES:

.Bridger, Henry-I.

428

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

(Aug; 1~

KEITH LODGE , No. 187.
Gilroy, Sant• Cl•ra County,

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER S1

Edwin Jackson Bryant, Senior Deacon
John Micha.el Einf11lt, Mo.Sier,
.William Clark Leeper, Junior Deacon,'
Henry Hecker, Seni.or Warden,
Sa.mnel Thomas Moore Marihal
John Frank Kimball, Junior Warden,
'
Thomae Darrough l ~
Jacoh Reither, 7reasurer,
Silas Gratton Babb f 8te1.0ard1,
Adam Wolfrom, &cretary,
'
Charles Pierce Weldon, Ty'ler,
Past llla ster&1

John Ma.thew Keith,
John Michael Einfa.lt,
William Henry Haydock,

Oha.rles Pierce Weldon,
Samoel Thomas Moore,
Edmond Joseph Bennett.

MASTER MASONS:

Jones, Albert
Bradley, John Harrison
Kea.too, George
· Bryant, Berryman
Chesbro, Herela.nd Rodgers McCray, Jamee
McDoffie, Henry Lynn
Cole, Amoe Granger
Meseec, Tea.a.c Green
Oomine, Cooper
Morrie, John
Cordes, Paul Henry
Edwards, John Ohaodler Monot, Malcolm
Mnlreed, Thomas
Enstie, Albert
Farmer, Edward Henry · Otto, John George
Pettit, William Wallace
Fay, Jamee ~'rank
Pruett, Jamee Irwin
Frost, Irwin
Bea, George Elmer
Hickman, Isaac
Rea., James William
Hinman, Aehbell Green
Rea, Samuel
Howard, Volney

Sargent, J a.mes Alexander
Smith, Sidney Henry
Stayton, Robert Glover
Tolly, Jamee Anderson
Tolly, Pleasant Briton
Torner, Jamee Heaton
Tyron, Ambrose Bruen
Va.ngha.n, George
Wardell, Benjamin Angnstns
Watson, Alexander
Welborn, Oscar Marcellus
Willey, Howard
Woods, Joseph Calvin
Wright, James-67 .

ENTERED APPRENT ICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Philipps, George-1 .

Scblessinger, Na.than-I .

SUSPENDE D FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Pyle, Da.rias Ma.ck-I.
DIED:

Hersey, George Elljah-1.

To the Grand Lo<lge of OaJ,ifornia.

429

OAKLA ND LODGE , No. 188.
Oakland , Alameda County,

Stated Jfeetinga, first Saturda.v in each month.
OFFIUER S1 ·

George Henry Smith, Senior Deacon,
Charles Frederick Ott, Master,
Gilbert Barber Daniels, Senior Warden, John Charles Dunne, Junior Deacon,
David Walter Sta.ndeford, Marshal,
Znoha.ry Taylor Gilpin, Jun. Warden,
Theo. Freylinghnysen Mock, j 81.eward.8,
Damien Edmont Fortin, Treairurer,
1
Oharles Nelson Walter,
Alvab Kittredge Ola.rk, Secretary,
Wilber Walker, Organill,
William Bowker Ingereoll, Chaplair.,
Cha.rlee Edwin Gillett (of lny Lodge, No. 397, Elmira., N. Y.), Tyler.
P1&st Mastera•

,

Edwin Jackson Bryant,
Thomas Da.rroogh,
Harvey Chapin Morey,

1695.]

Nath11n Weston Spa.nlding, Elowell Aubrey Powell, Walter Van Dyke,
Fred Lawrence Botton, Joseph Alon:>:o Wiswell,
Enoch Homer Pardee,
Edward Harrison Morgan, Geo.Clement Perkins, P. (}.M.,
William J a.mes Gnrnett,
George C<loper Pardee, William Austin Holcomb,
Jesse Walton,
John Hereford Kercheval ,Moses Ea.don,
Alvab Kittredge Clark,
Oscar John Willis,
Wiiliam Frank Pierce,
Na.than Benedict Hoyt,
Sa.mnel Willis Chobbuck.
George Patterson,
Thomas John O'Keeffe,
MASTER MASONS:

Davie, John Leslie
Brown, Albert
Abbey, Richard
William Rnde
Davis,
James
Sa.mnel
Broce,
Jacob
John
Abel,
B:irchard, Leonidas Soule Degen, Rodolph Phillip
Abel, William
Burnham, Charles Franklin De Golia, George Ellis
Adams, John Smalley
De La Montanye., Mathew
Alexander, Lonis Leander Barns, John William
Dewey, Alfred Timothy
Allardt, George Frederick Barrell, Alfretl William
·
Witt, James
De
Thomas
George
Bortchael,
Wilson
William
Anderson,
Archibald , Francis Albert Campbell, Fred'ck McLean Dick, Byron Coleman
Cantin, Angastus Sa.mnel Dingee, William Jackson
Baker, Alfred Septimus
Dodge, Ezekiel Goddard
Carpenter , Tom
Banks, Charles Wells
Dooova.o, Neal
Child, Edw .. .-d
Batchelder, James
Donn, Alexader
Olairville, Walter
Bartlett, George Clinton
Dnsinhory,Myron 1'hompson
Clift, Frederick Charles
Bartlett, Renry Snow
Earl, Guy Chaffee
Collier, John Henry
Benner, Harry
Eber, George
Collins, David Edward
Betts, William Mfoba.el·
Conoanoo, Willillm Norton Eber, John William
Bia.ck, Joseph
Cowley, William Ashline Emery, Joseph Stickney
Blethen, Ja.meij Edward
Evans, TalMen
Crafts, Henry Gray
Bones, Sa.mnel 'West
Everson, Wallace
Oraig, Albert William
Boniface, Henry Clark
Fairchild, Judd Hobart
Craig, William Henry
Booth, Luoins Anson
Crane, William Whitefield Fergnson,ErnestMa.ltra.vers
Brabba.n, Dixon
Fischer, Charles Frederick
Bradford, Alonzo Sylvester Crellin, John
Flint, Elij11b Train
Crellin, Thomas
Bradley, John Tilford
Fowler, Donglass Thomas
Curtis, John
Breed, Arthur Ha.stirtgs
Fox, Charles Nelson
John
Cushing,
Lother
Melvin
'Broadwell,
Fraser, Hugh
Dalziel, Robert
Brooks, William Edgar

430

Returna of the SulxYrdinaie Lodge,s

[Aug. 1,

French, A.ea Telford
Macdonald, J.Arcb.Campb'l Scbaackey, John Daniel
Friend, William Hovey
Mannel, George Washington Sherman, Edwin Allen
Gage, John William
Martin, George Washington Sheridan, Martin
Gage, Stephen Thornton
Mathews, Walter J
Shorey, Albert
Gibbons, William Peters
Mathiesen,Joaki m BernhardShortill, Walter
Gift'ord, William M
Matthiesen, Dinoes Hansen Skinner, Isaac Ash
Gilbertson, John
Mayon, James Lenox
Smith, Albert Lippitt
Gilman, Samnel :Meiggs
McClo~kcy, Charles James Smith, William ·clay
Glover, Robert
MoFadden, Thomas Henry Souter, John
Gray, Roscoe Spanlding
McGown, Chas. Mastersen Spanlding, Nathan Walter
Greenhood, Jacoli
McLeod, John Campbell
Stone, Lonie Stanwood
Gunn, .A.dam Francis
McMahan, Morg"n Strange St. Pierre, George
Gnppy, Alonzo Rnssell
Heade, Calvert
Sturgis, Frank Fanning
Hadley, Marquis de Lafay'te Merrill, Isaac Newton
Sturtevant, Oollen Kitt'dge
Haines, Ellis Ashbory
Merritt. Albert Humphrey Taggart, Grantham Israel
Hale, William Elmer
Miller, Chas. Wm. Joachim Taylor, Albert Miles
Hamilton, William Thomas Miller, Harry Halstead
Taylor, Samuel Johnson
Bandy, Brayton Everington Miller, Thomas Irvine
Templeton, James
Handy, Lncios Harvey
Miller, William Henry
Terp, Jeft Everson
Harmon, John Brown
Miller, William Noble
Tesheira, Lewis
Hawkett, ArthurWellingto nMitchell, John Henry
Todd, James Hamilton
Hayes, Daniel Edward
Morry, Nicholas
Towle, John Francis
Henderson, John Henry
Monson, "Arthur King
Treadwell, John Bartlett
Heron, Ernest Alvah
Naismith, James Semple
Twombly, Oharles Henry
Hewes, Charles Leslie
Nelle, William
Upton, Mylon William
Hewes, Oh&rles Wesley . Nourse, Stephen Henry
Visher, Charles Putnam
Hlll, Robert Lewis
Osgood, Ernest J.
Vogt, David
Hoagland, William Cox
Parry, Thomas Hendry
Von Borstel,John
Hoft'man, Charles Frederic Patterson, Alexander John Von Hirsch; Sementi Julius
Hooriet, Lucien
Pattersoo,Edwa rd MortimerWaldron, Vernon
Howard, John L
Pearce, Richard
Walker, Lysander
Howie, Thomas
Pearce, Webb Nicholson Walker, Wilber, Jr.
Hughes, John Jones
Pedrin!, Cipriano
Waltz, Charles
Humphrey, Morton
Perry, Joseph Joshua
Ward, Robert
Bundley, Eugene Russell Pierce, Edward
Watson, Franklin Greenville
Hunt, George Henry
Pinkert~n. Thomas H&mil'n Web her, Mack
Hunt, Thomas Edward
Pratt, Albert Harlow
Weilbye, William Hansen
Irish, Spencer Kline
Pratt, Daniel Webster
Wentworth, Ira Martin
Jansen, Ole
Palcifer, Henry Willis
White, James Stevens
Jasper, Oscar Wood
Rand, Hall Bergin
Whitehead, James
John~on, Ellis Crowell
Randall, Oharles Wells
Whit~ey, Frederick Eugene
Jones, Herbert Ellis
Ransome, Ernest Leslie
Wilberg, Ernest Nicholas
Jones, Richard
Raymond , Van Renselaer Wilcox, Waiter.Cary
Judson, William Francis
Redding, Albert Putnam
Williams, John
Kipps, Alfred Kemble
Reichling, Francis
Williams, John Edward
Knowle@, Edwin Irving
Remillard, Peter Nicholas Wilson, Adelbert
Koser, Newton Alexander Richmond , William Preston Wilson, William
Laidlaw, Alexander
Roach, James Vincent
Wise, .Melvin
Laidlaw, Walter
Rodolph, Francis Bequette Wise, Raphael
Lathrop, Solomon
Roeth, Obarles
Wise, Thomas Clark
Lawrence, John
Rosenberg, Nathan
Wolf, John William
Leckie, Robert BtevensQD Rowe, Albert
Wythe, Joseph Henry
Lindner, Charles
Rntberford,Cbas . Boardm'n York, Charles Sanon
Loring, Geor11:e York
Salkeld, William I
Zimmermann, Jacob-273.
Lowden, William Heron

1.o the (}Tand Lodge of OoU/<Ymia.

1895.]

431

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Henry, Ashman Cooke-~.

Bailey, George Heard

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

N ortb, Hart Hyatt-4.

Everett, Edward

Allen, Benjamin Budlong
Collins, AJbert Frank

RESTORED:

Sheridan, Martin:._1.
WITHDRAWN:

Bowen, John Wesley
Brigham, Frank Eugene

Graham, Obas. Kinaird,Jr. Jillson, Charles Brooks-6.
Hazlett, Geo1ge Alexander

Dalziel, James

Eastland, Van Leer

DIED:

Horton, George Wallace-S.

NORTHER N LIGHT LODGE, No. 190.
Millville, Shasta County.

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

Abraham Lincoln Webb, Senf.or Deacon,
Erastus Edward Ra>'flings, Master,
Geo. Washington Thatober,Sen. Warden, Harrold Milton Ross, Junior Deacon,
Edward Armsted Martin, Mar1hal,
James Nelson Crabb, Junior Warden,
John Zacharia Taylor, l Btewardl,
William Adkin Smith, Treuurer,
Ferdinand Horst,
f
James Levin Nichols, Secretary,
Jacob Daniel Overmyer, Tyler. ·
Daniel Tboma8 Shearin, Chaplain,
Past Ma•tera:

Herman Frederick Rose,
James Fletcher Winsell,
Jam es I.evln Nichols,

Edward Armeted Martin,
Albert Frederick Roes,
Joseph Albee Dunham,

Harrold Milton Ross,
Frederick Dersch.

MASTER MASONS :

Simpson, Thomas Jeft'erson
Atkins, Quintas Narcissus Hall, Sylvester
· Raster, Louis Frederick Smith, Lonie Clarence
Baker, Lewis Edward
Lippoldt, Herman .A.agast Thatcher, Alexander
Ball, Charles Jerome
Love, Franklin Reading
Thatcher, Ezekiel Thomas
Bass, Herbert
Thatcher, Mark Carr ·
Bateman, Charles Edgar Martin, Benry Lee
McBroom, Alva
Tnrner, Joseph
Cotter, Henry Hill
01tbnrn, J obn William, Sr. Vilas, Marcellus Bain
Darrah, Bennje
Ogbarn,Jobu William, Jr. Wagoner, Erastus
Darrah, Joseph Smith
Wimmer, James Moses
Dnnbam, Almon Nathaniel Pullen, William
Sheridan, Adelbert Oscar Witherow, Samuel Newton
Eld~ed, Stephen James
Sheridan, Geo. Washington
Green, Charles Henry
---49.
ENTERED APP.RENTIOES :

Green,IMyron

Wilkinson, Felix Grnndy-2.
DIED:

Renicke, Cbristopher-1.

432

.&turns of the Subordinate Lodge,s

[Aug. 1,

To the Gra'nd Lodge of OaJ,if<YT"n'i,a.

1895.]

43g

SANTA BARBARA LODGE, No. 192.

MARIN LODGE, No. 191.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.

San Ra:fael, Marin County.

Stated Meetings, Wed11uday of or ne:z:t preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, first 'l'hursday auccuding Full Moon.
OFFICER!il

OFFICERS:

James Saunders, Master,
John Lawrance Ureer, Senior D'1aoon,
William Farrington Jones, Sen. Warden, William Barr, Junior Deaoon,
William Gladden Corbaley, Jun. Ward., William Elliott, Marshal,
Benjamin Wendell Studley, Treasurer,
Francis J obn J aoobs, Beoretary,
Steu!ards,
I
Thomas Siah Bonneau, Ohaplain,
Valentine Gulde, '.IYler.

== =·}

William Arthur Wilson, Senior Deacon,
Samuel Manchester, M1J11ter,
Ola.rence Crosby Knight, Senior Warden, Oba.uncey Elemuel Webster, Jun. DeaOOf&,
Oha.rles Henry Kelton, Marahal,
Ira. Loomis,- Junior Warden,
Jos. McCullough Ua.rretson, i BtewardB
Ell Rondell, 'l'reuurer,
Winfield Bradbury Metcalf, f
'
Alrred Bascom Willia.ms, Secretary,
Daniel Hoyer, TylBr.
Edward Gardner Dodge, Ohaplain,
E'aat Maaten 1

·

William N Anderson,
Benjamin Wendell Studley,
Frank Marion Angellotti,

Paat Maatera:

William Henry Hill,
John NE Wilson,

William Elliott,
Thomas Sia.h Bonneau.

MASTER MASONS:

Abbott, Wm. Henderson . Furlong Robert
Morris, Jo.mes
Adams, Walter Miller
Gardner, Edwin
Nye, David Fearing
Alexa.oder, Richard B
Grosjean, Oa.mille
Pomeroy, Carter Pitkin
Alexa.uder, Thoe. Newton Heilfron, Berna.rd
Powers, George Herma.J;l
Augustine, Samuel Miller Henderson, Frank William Reed, John Joseph
Bettancourt, John Enos
Ka.neen, John Stephen
Schlosser, Henry
Bonnetti, Joseph Robert Knittel, Henry
Schroyer, Aaron
Bngbee, Joseph Henry
Koerner, Chas. Henry Wm. Scott, George
Byrne, Jo.mes Dongla.s
La Franky, Joseph
Smith, John Glover
OlauBBen,P.Heinricb Oars'n Lauck, Joseph Benjamin Taylor, Frank Lincoln
Oodoni,GiuseppeAbbondio Laulf, Oscar Benjea.
Taylor, Jo.mes Irving
Crumpton, Hezekiah John Lyon, William
Taylor, Will Penfield
Dollar, Robert
Ma.son, George
"Wilkins, James Hepburn
Fish, Charles Hull
MoLea.n, Jo.mes Thoma.a
Willia.ms, Peter-66.
FELLOW ORAFTS :

Grove, Milla.rd Filmore
Mager, Riche.rd

Ma.goes, Robert

Partee, Benja.min-4.

John Peck Stearns,
Rollin Donsbee,
Jacob Joshua Eddleman,
Charles Henry Kelton,

llrl4BTER MASONS :

Ba.lob, Edward Thomas
Barker, Jo.mes Lawrenoe
Ba.tee, Charles Bell
Boeseke, Albert
Burson, Joseph H
Burton, William Waples
Oa.sebeer, Joseph Wilson
Cook, George Gilbert
Crawford, Augustine
Daniels, Thomas Payne
Dimock, Harry Clinton
Enis, Fostin
Faber, George
Findlay, James
Poster, Marion Solon
Franklin, Gideon Edward

George, Edgar Sherman
George, Thomas
Gibbs, Albert Wyman
Henderson, David RoBB
Heyl, John Christian
Hixon, George Clinton
Hollowa.y, John Martin
Jo.cobs, James Harvey
Kilgore, Moat Molden
Lehman, David Isa.a.c
Menzel, William
Nelson, James Miles
Norway, William Henry
Ott, Adam
Paddock, Edgar Luzern
Pierce, William Wheeler

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

FELLOW ORAFT:

Silveria., Felix Augusto-1.

Durga.n, Wlllia.m-1.

Nye, David Fearing-:!.
WITHDRAWN:

Bloom, Joseph George

Bl'eala.uer, Theodore Ma.thews
Garretaon, Charles Oscar

Gaiy, Edward W

Leland, George Walter4.

WITHDRAWN:

Estey, Charles Lowell-2.

Todd, Alexander Brunt-2.

Pool, William Pitt

DIED:

Christie son, J a.mes Peter

Pratt, Edward Baker
Ra.Ifour, Louis
Reeves, Irwin Warren
Rogers, Herbert Augustus
Shives, Alexander
Squier, William Bra.sted
Tagge.rt, J a.mes William
Tarr, Charles Wesley
Taylor, J oho Brutus
Tebbetts, George Parrish
Thayer, Walter Francis
Thompson, Mark
Whitney, D L
Wilson, Albert Calhoun Jos.
Winchester, Roberi Fulton
Woods, Ha.rloe Dela.y-69.

ENTERED APPBENTIOEB :

RESTORED :

Lyon, William

Albert Perham Hardy,
John Kennedy Harrington,
John Osborn Ea.ton.

Oliver Perry Squier,
Angustns Carl Bchnster,
Edward Gardner Dodge,
John N Hiller,

Fra.netta., John-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Van Va.lkenburg, Edgar-1.
DIBD:

Child, George Edward

36

Hom, Andrew-2.

434

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodgea

[Aug. 1,

1895.]

435

1'o the Grand Lodge of California. .
Past Maateru

FERNDALE LODGE, No. 193.
Ferndale, Humboldt Connty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt auccuding Full Moon.
OFFICER!!it

John Edmon Foster, Ma.ter,
Frank George Williams, Senior Deacon,
Oscar Dnnwreath Whittier, Sen. Warden, Ray Henry Edwards, Junior Deacon,
Joseph Armitage Shaw, Junior Warden, Elbridge Ohamberlain Damon, Mar1hal,
Zelotas Bingham Patrick, Trea.urer,
George Hutchinson Stillings, l St
ds
Lucius Miles Smith, Secr'etary,
Thomas Jefferson Hall,
f ewar '
John Milton Smith, Ohaplain,
David Stillings, Tyler.
Past lllaate'ras

Green Grove Dudley,
Elbridge Chamberl'n Damon,
Philip Seward Insklp,

Frank George Williams,
John Henry Trost,
John Edmon Foster.

Reese, Levi Lincoln
Renfro, David Keoada
Robarts, James Thomas
Roberts, David Richard
Rodgers, James Davis
Samuels, William
Scotton, Steve Wayne
Smith, James
Stevens, Rufus Willard
Sweet, George William
Varley, Edwin
Williams, Richard Roland
Wooldridge,Wm. Van Reos'r
Wooldridge,TrnmauEngeue
-61.

Rasmussen, Jacob-1.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Dunlap, Benjamin Franklin

I

MASTER MASONS :

Apperson, Elbert Clark
Baggi, Oassimir Soossa
Barker, Cortis Mason
Charleston, John b
Cole, Wallace D
Doc ray, Frank J nstin
Emerson, Frank Lincoln
Frink, Daniel BenJamin
Gordon, George Olarence

Rengstorft, Henry Andrew
Hansen, Nelson Jorgen
Showers, James
Hincelot, Ferdinand B
Snyder, John
Hnehbeck, Harry
Sievens, Marcus Harloe
Jones, Caleb Valentine
Kleckner,.Madisou Monroe Swall, George
La Piere, George Warren Towne, Peter
Weilheimer, Aaron
Martin, James Dickason
Whittemore, Benj. Franklin
Marvin, Charles
-41.

Babcock, George Wa•hington

Robinson, Don Alonzo-2.

Ferioli, John-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Askam, Oliver Perry

MAl:!TER MASONS:

FELLOW CRAFT:

Cyrus Philbrick Berry,
Henry Merrill Henderson.

ENTEBEb APPRENTICES:

Ira Alonzo Rnss,
William Dexter Oapwell,
William Isaac Webster,

Alford, William Brazilia
Hnnnicott, Ezra
Barnes, Isaac Bloomfield Hunter, Walker
Blakemore, John Ward
Jordan, Georze
Oarr, Edward Baker
Kerfoot, Joseph
Olark, George Washington King, John Rossell
Oomisto, Silva
Michael, Robert Richard
Cook, Oharles Sage
Mills, Oren
Miner, Leander Haskins
Devinney, James Mark
Doe, Oharles Albion
Morrison, Lafayette
Fulmore, Mark Andrew
Morrison, Silas William
Fulmore, Smith .
Patrick, Giles
Goff, Jam es Heurv
Patrick, Marshall
Hauley, Frank
Pollard, John Thompson
Hansen, Henry August
Price, Isaac
IDcks, Leonard Salmon

David Taylor Bateman,
Henry McCleary,
Oscar Crellin Morgan,
William Austin Whitmire,
Wm. Freeman Farrington Foss,

Tucker, John Heury-3.

Olson, Ernest Joline

BUCKEYE LODGE, No. 195.
Winters. Yolo County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER~•

Thomas Jackson Crane, Senior Deacon,
George Thompson, Mast.er,
William Henry Gregory, Juntor 1Jea.'10n,
Arthur Balbridge Ish, Senior Warden,
Daniel Huston Waughtel, Marahal,
John Frank Griflln, Junior Wai·den,
Geo. Washington Hutchens, j SUnDardB,
Jonah Porter Steward, '.lreasurer,
Marcus Oscor Wyatt,
l
William Sims, Searetal'!/,
Oharles H~ory Wolf, Tyler.
Paat .lllaater11

Henry Abraham Hill,
William Sims,
Thomas Walter Guthrie,
George Wesley Hill,
Kicajah Oglesbv Harding, Edward Wolfskill,

Joseph Clark Hulse,
David Eisner,
Perley J ohnsoo Aiken.

MASTER MASONS :

MOUNTAIN VIEW LODGE, No. 194
.lllonntain View, Santa Clara County.

Stated Me-etings, Tuesday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Oyrns Philbrick Berry, Master,
Ernest Leroy Berry, Ben. Decwcm,
Jacob S Mockbee, Senior Warden,
8amuel E. Weilheimer, Junior .Deacon,
Houkan Trolsen, Junior Warden,
Henry McOleary, Mar1hal,
Julius Weilheimer, '.lreasurer,
Reory Weilheimer, l stewards
Levi Albert Milton Orittenden,Seoretary, John Jay Cutter,
f
'
- - - - - - - - , Ohaplain,
Andrew Jackson Dexter, Tylm. •

Baker, Phnip Samuel
Hoy, Major Samuel Rensly Rice, Andrew Rice
Briggs, Rob11rt Lee
Hutchens, John Pace •
Robinson, William Henry
Brink, Henry
Husted, William Joseph
Sackett, Buell R
Brink, William
Ireland, Elias
Seely, Mack Jay
Button, Henry Leslie
Maxwell, James Oliver
Shackelford, James Henry
Campbell, John Calvin
McFall, Theodore Ebert
BheaTer, Levi
Englehart,Edmood Johnson Moler, John F.
Shirley, Samuel Orittenden
Fenley, Noah Bedsworth MorriRon, Robert
Yount, George Walter-46.
Harian, William Christian Nevin, Neil
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

DIED:

Powell, Alexander Quaw-1.

Hall, Martin Karcher-1.

436 .

Returns · of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. I,

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

437

MASTER MASONS :

SAN SIMEON LODGE , No. 196.
Cambria, San Lnb Obhpo County.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS 1

John Ridley Nott, Senior IHacon,
Ritner Dodson, Master,
Frederico Gamboni, Junior Dea.crm,
Alexander Paterson, Ben'°7' Warden,
- - - - - - , Marshal,
Philip Kaetrel, Junior .Warden,
t
George Mix Cole, Tre~rer,
f SUJ1.oard9,
Samuel Guthrie, &crela'lJ,
William Blair Arbuckle, 1}/ler.

== :

Pa•t Ma•tera 1

George MU Cole,
Ritner Dodson,

Samuel Guthrie,
Angus McFersonH ardie,

Peter Tognazzini.

Millen, William
Jacoby, Nathan
Allen, Gabriel
.Monaghan, Francis
Kennedy, Silas Ely
Bailey, Henry Clay
Moulthrop, Wiley Howard
Keyes, Charles George
Clewitt, Ohester C.
Pearce, Ira
Clinton, Willis PembPrton Kingcade, Rossell
Koster, Johan Aug. Mathias Sch!lling, William
Crain, William Lucien
Sjoberg, Chas. James Wm.
Lieshman, William H.
Crook, Henry
Smorr, John Randolph
DeJaoserand,Nicholas John Lighthorn, John F.
Stewart, George
Lowe, William Wallace
Ferrier, Francis
Venable, Pierce Samuel
Markle, Richard
Forsberg, Frederick
Warren, Robert Boyle
Garrett, Robert Lundsford McOoy, Oscar
Wet;1Jel, Martin
McOrea, John
Hayes, Thomas Bishop
McDonald, Edward Nath'! Wheeler, Stephen James
Hill, Randolph William
-53.
Jacoby, Herman
FELWW ORA.FT :

ENTERED APPRENTIC E :

Anderson, Niels Olnf-1.

Maria, Joan De-L

WITHDRAW N:

MASTER MASONS:

Oampbell, James Day
·
Oaporgoo, Virgil
Oase, Henry Kingdon
Eubanks, Patrick Henry
Fischer, Max
Frankl, Adolph

Loring, Edward Payson
Moscio, Guiseppe
Loll, George Washington Mnsic, Ethelbert David
Luchessa, Antonio
Oliver, Joseph Soares
Minor, Robert Andrew
Trace, Meritt Roscoe
Moma, Benjamin Franklin Vanoni, Mark An~ny
Moscio, Abramo
Watson, James William-28 .

McDonald, Samuel-I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES :

Carter, Anstln Alonzo
Fraser, Thomas
Fry, Frederick

Glassford, William
Hepburn, Frank W.
Hart, Frank

McMillan, David
Reed, Robert William
Smith, George Reed-9.

DIED :

FELWW CRAFT:

James, Drury Woodson-1 .

Condon, Frederick

Hewitt, Eldridge Edward-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Davidson, S~phen Morgan

Eubanks, John Henry-2.

HARTL EY LODGE , No. 199.
WILMIN GTON LODGE , No. 198.

Lakeport, Lake County.

Wllminjl't on, Lo• Anjl'ele• County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nm preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, 'l'ue8day of or nm preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS 1

Oharles Edward Mitchell, Master,
Benjamin W. Edelman, S1111l.or Ward8n,
Benton McCoy, Junior Warden,
Joseph Perry Sylva, 7Teaavrer,
Daniel Randall Olay, Secretary,
Alexander Fraser, Ohaplain,

Augustus Medores Harter, Sen. l>e<UJOn,
Frederick Schweiger, Junior I>eacon,
Robert Benton Vandenbnrg, Marallal,
di
William J. Morrison, t Ste
war '
William Henry Savage, f
- - - - - - , 1yler.

Pa•t Mader• 1

George Hinds,
James Hillsey Dodson,
Albert Alexander Polhamns, Andrew Young,

Henry Olay Dillon,
Oharles Edward Mitchell.

OFFICER S:

Clarence William Kellogg, Sen. Deacon,
Cortis Jefferson Monroe, Maller,
George Washington M.a.llory, Jun. l>eacon,
Lonls Pedrazzini, Smiior Warden,
·
·
William Giddings Forber, Jun. Warden, Angelo Bigg!, Marshal,
l StelJJ(J,1'ds,
Aaron Levy,
Hiram James Lewis, 1reasurer,
John Kay Fraser, f
George Hayne~ Force, Secretary ,
David Hooper Atherton, Tyler.
· Pa•t Master••

Woods Crawford,
David Vernoi Thompson,

George Washington Mallory,
Joseph Andrew Tinker,

Morton Smith Sayre,
Angelo Biggi.

438

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

LAng. 1,

MASTER HABONlil :

Green, William Woods
Barnert, Charles
Haycock, Thomas
Boggs, Lilbnrn Henry
Hayter, Thomas Fletcher
Brown, James H.
Humphrey, Hiram Ahift'
Burger, John Fleming
b'.tllBBy, J oho
Carpenter, Ira M.
Obamblio., Marcos Ricb'son League, Jamee Neal
McLean, Daniel
Obarmak, Herman
Meddaugh, Oscar E.
Clemensen, Peder
Minstrel!, George William
Copeland, Lawrence
Edmonds, Joseph Fleming Myers, George' Welton
Gardiner, Thomas

Nicoll, Daniel Cox
Rantz, William Dodridge
Scbodgen, Nicholas
Simmons, Leeson Ge.skill
Sleeper,Ed
Sylar, Samuel F.
VanDeventer,Geo.Waebto'n
Williams, David
Wood, Alfred Newton
Yoong, William Gaylord.
--46.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Craig, Jo~eph

Manning, Ernest Lemnel

Taylor, J ohn Benry-3.

WITHDRAWN:

DIED:

Anderson, Robert Lawrence-I.

Arnold, Marshall-1.

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of California.

439·

Shl_lrritt, James
Milbury, George
Hilton, George William
Shoemaker, David
Moody, John Fairfield
Hutchinson, John T
Ohland, Heinr'h Fred. Ernst Short, Charles Thomae
Kinney, Edward Story
Shute, John William
Perkins, George Jerome
Lavena, Stephen
Peters, Fernand Wllliam Biegel, Charles
Leach, David Walter
Spalding, William Rnfos
Rabe, Angnet Louis
Lewison, Jacob Lewis
Richardson,Geo .Washlng'n Steen, Nathaniel
MoCarnoek, John Ezra
Van Horn, Walter Boone
Richardson, Warren
McDonald, John Joseph
McLellao, Charles Roderick Rutherford, Frank Mitchell Whitney, Thomas Byron
Wilke, William Ferdinand
Meloche, Frank Tancred Sohneider, Adam
Schni;ider, Peter Gottle!b Yoong, LeMartine Wilson
Mlcander, John
-76.
FELLOW ORAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Longstreet, Robert Alexander-1,

Lovey, Marlon-1.

WITHD.RAWN:

Young, Samuel Alexander-2.

Crawford, William George

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES!:

Boyd, David Moore

Carlson, John Angoet

Logan, Joseph Van Bnren-3.

TRUCKEE LODGE, No. 200.
Tracke.,, Nevada Coaaty.

SILVEYVI LLE LODGE, No. 201.

Stated Meetings, Thursday m:r:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Daniel McPhetres, Master,
John Sherritt, Senior Deaoon,
George Washington Gilfen,Sen. Warden, Herman Hiram Jacobs, Junior Deaoon,
Charles Edward Glidden, Jun. Warden, Joseph Dearborn Hilton, Marahal,
George Shalfer, Treasurer,
l BtRIDal'da
Samnel Cupples,
Obarles Thomae, Secretary,
'
Jamee Alexander Stewart, f
William Henry Hill, Tyler.
Pan Maater11

Charles Henry Barton,
Michael Lnxenborger,
Joseph Marzen, Jr.;
George Bhalfer,

Charles Fayette McGle.shan,
William Henry Hill,
William Park,

Samuel Parker,
Samuel Smith .Ferguson,
John Sherritt.

MASTER MASONS:

Casper, Samuel
Adolph, Joline
Champion, FranciR
Balaban, Andros
Champion, Josiah
Ballder, William
DeBernardi, Giulio
Bird, Jamee
Donn, Henry George
Booth, Jed Gibe
Bnrckhalter, Walter Marion Dnneter, George William
Dntoher, Willard Perry
Cahill, Thomas
Fay, John
Calkins, Willard Peck

Franzini, Morris
Frey, Franklin Joseph
Geery, Wilson William
Gowling, Joseph
Grant, George. Hugh
Hardman, Clinton Marion
Harvey, Irving Francis
Hettenhanser, Louis

Db:on, Solano County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday oj or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

John Henry Rice, Maater,
J·ohn Devano Grady, Senior Wal'dan,
Olaoe Frahm, Junior Wal'den, ·
Oscar Oar! Schulz, '.freal'Ul'er,
George Ulsteen, Seoretary,
He~ry Ewaldt McOone, Ohaplain,

James Edwin Apperson, Senior Deacon,
Charles Henry Newman, Juntor Deacon,
Robt. Edmond Lee Stephens, Marahal,
John Rightmire Madden, j BtetDarda,
1
Robert Lee Rierson,
J-0hn Alex. Campbell Thompson, Tyler.

Paat Maatera 1

William Henry Wells,
John Sweany,
Benrv Ackson RoBS,
Rerman EpptDger,

Benjamin Franklin Kelly,
John William MoFadyen,
Joseph Henry McCone,

William Henry Garnett,
James Edwin Apperson,
John Henry Rice.

MASTER MABONtl :

Downes, George McOlelan Gallagher, Thomas
Abbay, John AleX.:Uder
Agee, Christoph. Columbne Donoho,Oharles Cambridge Garnett, Jamee St. Clair
Doprey, Angnstne Frede' k Gate~, Thomas Milton
Baker, William
· Goodman, Seligman
Ettlinger, Bernhard
Olarke, Crawford Calvin
Onrrey, Montgomery Scott Fergoson, Wm. Redmond Grove, John Calvin
Johnson, John Dwinell
Fraser, Gillivray
Currey, Robert John

~40

ReJut'rl.8 of the Subordi;naJ,e Lodge.a

Kirby, Charles Martin
Kline, Joseph
Little, George Arthnr
Martin, Jam es Phillip
McFayden, Harry
Nndd, Elmer Ellsworth

[Aug. 1,

Plummer, Charles Henry Russell, Francis Evia
Pritchard, Jnlian Peter
Steinmiller, George
Richards, Oharles Robert Timm, Henry R
Rockwell, Myron Salsbury Ulsteen, John G
Rogere, Thompson Gilbert Wright, Oren-ii4.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

WITHDRAWN:

Ross, Albert Thomas-1.

Eppinger, Josua.-1.
DIED:

Agee, Charles Frederick

Jenkins, ".17illiam Waddington-Z.

PENTALPHA LODGE, No. 202.

.

Lo. An&'elea, Loa Anple• Coa.nty.

Stared Meetings, third Monday in. ea.ch month.
OFFICERS:

George Varcoe, Mti:rter,
Charles Wesley Blake, Ssnior Warden,
Sidney Howard Moore, Junior Warden,
Julius Herbert Martin, Treasurer,
William Whipple Robinson, Seoretary,
Shobal Patton Mulford, Ohaplain,

Jacob Marion Deeter, Senitn· .Dsacon,
Perrv Alonzo Boward, .Junior JJeaoon,
Francis Marion Parker, Marshal,
Jerrett Walter Oole,
l st
de
John Francis Hughes,
euiar '
Milton Cephas Fordham, Tyl.er.

r

Paat !llasters 1

Frank Leoouvreur,
Wm. Whipple Robinson,
Charles Wilson Bush,
John Dustin Bicknell,
Granville Quincy Stewart,
Francis Asbury Gibson,
Simon Stoll,
Charles Henry Dunsmoor,
William Adams Morgan,
J olios Herbert Martin,
John Amos Kingsley,

Cornelius Welles Pendleton, Robert Miller Parcels,
Edwin Lupton,
John Alexander Donnell,
Stephen Laoy Pritchard, Henry Joseph Lloyd,
John W Hinton,
Euzema Clarence Bower,
Levi Newton Breed,
Charles Tebbs Pepper,
George Andrews Blakes)ee, Andrew Nicholls,
Jacob Baruch,
James Henry Miller,
Micajah David Johnson,
Oscar Edward Grubb,
Ireby Barrow,
Cummins Butterfield Jones,
Daniel O'Counell Miltimore, James Pinkerton McAllister,
Samuel ScottSalisbnry,
Thomas William Wallace.

Arnold, George Leonard
Atwell, Thomas
AxteU, Charles Henry
Bair, Darius H
Barclay, David Eric
Barnes, Charles Porter
Barrow, Thomas Martin
Belcher, Harry

Bemis, W Frank
Bennett, Albert Alfred
Blinn, Willis Nehemiah
Bodman, Richard Steuart
Booty, John Addison
Bothwell, James
Bowen, Oalvin Case
Brown, John Alexander

MASTER MASONS ;

Brown, Robert Rufus
Brummett, Simon Jones
Bulla, Robert Nelson
Burns, John
·
Burns, John Appleyard
Carter, Julius Monson
Champlin, Henry
Charnock, Charles

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1895.]

441

Church, WilliBlll James
Haines, Thornton Griffith t.otspeich, Rhot.en Flem'ng
Clark, Asa Allen
Hall, Charles
Lundberg, William
Clark, Henry Graham
Hamilton, Albert Newell Macleod, Malcomb
Clark, Willard Herman
Harman, William Cronise Madden, Michael Henry
Clark, William Hovey
Hart, Frank John
Marble, Byron Monroe
Cochran, William George Hartup, Edmond
Martin, Russell Clinton
Colby, Obarles Warren
Haskell, John Condit
Matthay, Charles Herman
Cole, Andrew John
Hayes, Louis Augustus
McAllister,Frederick Henry
Conradi, Simon
Hayward, John
McCallum,Cyrns Alexand'r
Cook, Benjamin '
Heartt, Charles Lawrence McComas, Charles
Cooper, Henry Hull
Bellman, Berman Wolf
McConnachle, John
Cottle, Raiosford Ensor
Henderson,John Armstrong McDaniel, Abner Granger
Coulter, William Henry
Hervey, William Rhodes
McDonald, DnJcan
Crawford, James f!eth
Hetherington, Isaac
McFeely, William.Kenyon
Orawford John Henry
Hewitt, Randell Henry
McKenzie, Charles Bell
Cunningh~m, Rob't Gilmore Bilier, Horace
McM.auis, John Rodman
Cuzner James
Bliler, Sidney Warner
McMillan, Isaac Alexander
Davis, Charles Sanford
Hinman, Clifford Irving
Miller, Reed Gilbert
D&vis, George Henry
Hofrman, John Keyes
Montgomery, Jae. Andrew
Day, Oharles Edmund
Holton, George Mortimer Moody, Joseph Donahey
De Camp,Clarence Eastman Honse~ Melancthon
Moore, Al~red, Jr.
Devins Charles Alonzo
House; Radcliffe Frank
Moore, Milton Green
Deyoe.' Fred Theodore
Howard, John Friend
Morford, William Edwin
Dezell, James
Boward, Wm. Woolworth Morgan, Thomae Fuller
Dibble, Edward
Bowe, George Frank
Murray, John Emmett
Dillingham, William Henry Howry, Charles De Forest Murray, John Henry
Dilly, Louis
Hubbard, Albert Allen
Myers, Henry. Lane
Dowling James Nelson
Hudson, Josiah Whitcomb Neuh~rt, Damel, Jr.
Downie 'William
Innes, Daniel
Nicolay,Ferd.Francis Louis
Earl E~win Tobias
Irvin, Frank Arland&
Orr, Benjamin Franklin
Ebe;le Franz Xaver
Jackson, Charles
Osgood, Josiah Alonzo
Eddy, Frank Cowan
Johnson, Isaac Hull
Overton, Gilbert Edmond
lldwarde, Alfred Hannibal Johnson, John Smith
Page, Samuel Les~r
Edwards, David Kitzmiller Johnston, Jas. Harrison, Jr, Parrish, Henry
Ellis, Morris
Jones, Leonard
Patterson, Henry
Farmer, Frank Henry
Jordan, Franklin
Pease, Niles
Fergerson, Will Lee
Judy, James Howard
Pendleton, William Henry
Ferguson, William
Keifer, John Henry
Peel, Bryant Larendo
Jlkgerald,FrederickJame s King, Edmond William
Perry, John Sargent
Flint, Charles Newton
Knickerbocker, Niles
Perry, William Hayes
Ford, George Oscar
Knopf, Siegmund
Persons, Charles Morrison
l'rancisco, John Bond
Knott.!, Harry Hope
Phelps, William Reese
l'reeberg, William Alfonso Koepfii, Joseph Otto
Phibbs, George Philpot
Gibson, Edward David
Koster, John
Pickit, Daniel
Gilham, William Thomas Kuhrts, Jacob
Platt, Robert Stark
Glass, Henry
Lampton, James Lewis
Plotts, Thomas Mitchell
Grable, Charle& E
Lankershim, Jamee Boon Polaski, Lewis
Graham, Robert John
Lawrence, Joseph Martin Pomeroy, Abraham Ehle
Grove, Moses Payne
Leake, Edward
Powers, Luther Milton
Grnbb, Edwin L
Lembcke, Charles Ernest Proctor, Samuel John
Gl'Jmes, George A~dersou Leater, William George
Purvis, John Robert
llagenlocher, Reinhold
Lightner, Daniel Wesley Rawson, Edward Lincoln
Kaines, Rufus Rowe
Livermore, Philarmon P. Register, Henry 0

37

442

.Returns of the Suhordinate Lod.ge.s

[Aug. 1,

Reid, Frank Edwin
Slocum, Albert Gardiner
Verner, James
Reinhart, John Gt-aves
Smart, Carlos Levi
Vlctoraon, Herman
Renshaw, Fred
Smith, Benjamin N
Vignolo, Ambrogio
Retzer, George Washington Smith, Everett Russell
Wackerbar th, Angnst
Reynolds, Albert Wilson Smith, Henry Angostns
Walker, Thomas Eaton
Riobards, William John
Smith, Ira Bacon
Ward, Orean Alexander
Righetti, Robert
Smurr, Charles Franklin
Weber, Wm. Caspar Henry
Rinaldl, Carl Robert
Spear, Samuel Dann
Wedemeyer, Wm. George
Ritter, James Alexander Stanley, Henry Young
Wedgwood, Charles Herbert
Robertteon, Andrew
Stea.d, Charles
Wells, Lonls William
Rogers, William Spencer Stein, Fred William
Whedon, Willard Loring
Rohrer, John Bonewitz
Stephenson, George
Wheelan, Frank M
Rowan, Valentine James Stewart, William
Wheeler, John Ozias
Rozell, Albert
Stone, Alanson Jeddiab
White, Caleb Edwin
Ro88ell, William Henry
Stombs, Thomas Allen
White, Chas. Esm'd Jeffries
Sallsbnry; John Caleb
Styles, Angustus Parker
Whomes, Joseph
Santee, Milton
Sutherland, David Munroe Wilmans, Henry Stickney
Sawyer, William
Sntherland; Edward Paine Wilson, Christopher North
Sayre, Linus Newell
Tallman, Isaac Taylor
Wilson, James
Seeley, Calvin Mason
Tebbetts, Hiram Watson
Wolfskill, Milton
Senseney, Anthony Emory Teed, Matthew
Wood, Fred W
Bettle, John
Tolbert, John William
Woods, William Thomas.
Shelton, Haury Ashton
Tompkins, Edward Pllyson Woodworth, John Joseph
Shorb, Andrew Stephen
Townsend, Emory Lorenzo Worden, Ohampion Graves
151monds, Frank Kinley
Treeelar, Elkanah P
Wright, John Gibson
Simons, Edward
Tront, John Henry
Wright, Wesley Arnold
Simpson, John Armstrong Valiant, George Francie
Young,Samuel Alexander
Sippy, William
Van Noys._Ieaac Newton
-309.

1895.]

443

To the Grand. Lodge of OaJ,ijorni.a.
CONFID ENCE LODGE , No. 203.
Caetrovlll e, Monterey County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preuding Full Moon.
OFFICER S•

Lewis Atherine Gatten, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Northrop, Master, "
Frank Horbert Lang, Junior Deacon,
Charles Rose Whitcher, S8niorWard8n,
John William Grimes, Marlhal,
Thomas Bntler, Junior W!lf'den,
Victor Delme.r Blaek, Treasurer,
Charle~ Franc'.s McDonald, ~ Steward.a,
.
Labree , Se-·etary
Frederick Orrick Oakes,
Thomae P rmce
v•
,
·
Pearl Raymond Br.own, TIJ'l.er·
Past Masten•

. B.rown, Clinton Edward
Chappell, Thomas
Potter, William Edward

William Sutton.

Obarles Francis McDonald,

Andrew Peinn Potter,
Joseph Northrop,

MASTER MASONS '

Stokes, Amos
Uttley, George-20 .

Skiff, Herman Albert
Smith, Lovis Olin Perry H.

FELLOW ORAFT :

WITHDRAW N:

Butler, Albert Newton-1.

Draper, Harry D-1.
DIED:

Buckhalter, Gustavus Frederick- !.

MASTER MASONS:

Fraser, Alexander Isaac

Ram,Jinda

Stevens, Walter Pearson-9 .

FELLOW ORAFT :

Hongh, William Arthor-1.

SALINA S LODGE , No. 204.

ENTERED APPRENTIOEB :

Armstrong, Robert Barthollminue

:Srenner, Jacob Henry

Garnier, Oamille-3.

Stated Meetings, Sq,turdav of or next preuding Full Moon.

RESTORED :

Boring, Wiiliam Alciphron

Magee, William John

Page, Samuel Le.eter--3.

WITHDRAW N:

Alford, Chauncey Higley McKenna, Pat'k Angostin
Boring, William Alciphron McKinley, James Wilfred
Clark, Fred.erick Hiram
Meyberg, Moritz
Fraser, Alexander Isaac
Morris, Homer
Magee, William John
Murray, Nelson Henry

Salina&, Monterey County.

Parlin, Warren Wright
Ram, Jioda
Rose, Anderson
Town, Robert Miller
Wilson, Elihu 0-15.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Allen, John Orombie
Bartlett, Albert Griftltb
Foller, Elbridge Gerry
Farrey, William Cobbett

Goldsberry, F'ncis Landram Kincaid, Eugenio Hough
Hollenbeck, Geo. Wa~hingt'il Knrtz, Eugene William
Hubbell, Stephen Charles MacDonald, Wm. Henry
Keeley, Edward Ellsworth Marsh, John-12.

Burbank, David
Peck, John Pascal Paoli

Stamps, Pacific Nestor
Stevens, Walter Pearson

DIED:

Weldon, Tom J eremiab-5 .

OFFICER~•

Thomas Clay Edwe.rds, Senior D1Jacon,
Francis Alvin Abbott, Mast~r,
John Wendie Rowling, Junior Deacon,
John B•rron Bennett, Senior Warden,
George Crane Thompson, Jun. Warden, Arthur Johnson Abbott, Marsh.al,
John Oaine Frank Hoey, ~ Stewards,
Thome.a Scott Mabel, Treasurer,
Obarlee Alfred Foster,
Herman Samuels, &aretary,
Willis William Joyce, Tyler.
Thomas Felli Faw, Ohaplain,
Pa•t Maaten•

William Victor McGarvey, Uldarico Hartnell,
William Vanderhors t,
Carlisle Stewart Abbott,
John King Alexander,
Andrea M~ssina. Norton,
William Jay Hill, ,
Oliver Smith Trimmer,
:U:anasses J.Grove Smeltzer, Henry Edwin Stafford,
Jamee Ashley Webster,

Bradley Benjamin Chandler,
John Truman Enos,
Nathaniel Lynch Allen,
Frederick Wm. Schmechel,
Arthur Johnson Abbott.

444

Returns of the Subordinate Lo<lges

[Aug. 1,

1895.]

'Io the Grand Lo<lge of Oaliforni,o,.
Past M.aaterai

MASTER MASONS:

Abbott, George
Graves, James Elbert
Miller, George Sinclair
Abbott, Harvey Eldon
Hansford, Franklin Pierce Morray, William John
Acworth, John
Harrie, Jamee
·
Newlove, Joseph Harle
Anderson, Andrew Wm.
Hitchcock, Benjamin
Niesen, Christian
Archer, Samuel Milton
Hoffman, Christian
Pierce, Samuel Ciesel
Ball, Henry Seymour
Holfmao, Henry
Porter, John Brewer
Beatty, James
Hopps, Francie Jacob
Porter, Robert Lindsay
Benson, William Henry
Jacks, Perry Martin
Renison, Thomae
Bookofeky, Henry
Jackson, Alexander Bell
Sattrioi, James
Brokaw, Elmer Zell
Jepsen, Jacob
Scott, John B
Cayer, Ovila
Joy, Charles
Silacci, Batieti
Chamberlin, Che. Graodieeo Joy, John Green
Snyder, Jacob
Dean, Silas Lnciue
Kalar, David Gilmore
Swenson, Christian Severin
De Groat, Edward
Kellogg, Edwin Deloe
Taft, William Henry
Doncao, Jamee
Knowlton, Joseph
Thompson, James Danforth
Faw, George Eugene
~oeoicke, Adolph
Tuttle, Charles Kirkham
Fenton, Edward
Logwood, Wm. Mayfield
Tynan, Michael
Fleming, William Tingle
Logwood, Samuel Hall
Vanderhurst, Wm. Michael
Forman, William Bishop
Martin, William Jefferson Wiedeman, Alfred
Foster, John Adams
Menor, Jamee Crawford
Winham, Harry-89.
Foster, J oho Handal·
.McCandless, George Linley
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Gordon, Samuel Boffington Hawkins, Harrison Mille

Wiedeman, Frederick Henry
-S.

WITHDRAWN:

Stevens, Marcos Harloe

445

WrigM, Edgar Hyde-2.

Rufus Gustavus Borrows,

Francie Honghton,
Stephen Smith Gilman,

MASTER MASONS :

Smith, John Galbraith
Anderson, William Samuel Johnson, John William
Snelling, Gilbert M. L.
Dexter, Samuel Studley
Knight, Henry D
Steuben, Henry William
Dolliogs,.Wm. Washington Logan, Allison Robert
Stevens, David R·
Dyer, Zim'ti Parker
Lnce, Isaac Daniel
Stockton, Gabriel Sutherlin
"Evans, Aaron
McKinley, John
Thurston, William
Finnell, Bush
Miller, William Barton
Uhl, George Washington
Friday, Michael
Osborn, Snllivan
Wheeler, Andrew Jackson
Hartford, John William
Price, John Robert
Williams, John
Hayward, Martin Hayooo Price, Stephen Howard
Holderer, John
Scribner, Bntler Knowles Wintere, Sterling Price
Wright, Geo. Ephraim-48.
Holl, Daniel Mosier
Smith, Albert Nutton
FELLOW CRAFT :

Scribner, Henry Alvio-1.

STANISLAUS LODGE, No. 206.
Modesto, Stanialaos County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday oj or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Houston, James Bochanon-1.
DIED:

Van Vrankeo, David-I.

William Oscar Nelson.

George Russell Stoddard, Mosler,
William Henry Hatton, &miqr J)eaaon,
George Stepp Goelfert, Senior Warden, Thomas Elam Baker Rice, Jun. Deacon,
Jnlii\o Moorot, Juntor Warden,
Robert Elder, Marshal,
Walter Benjamin Wood, 7reasurer,
John Stewart Alexander, l Steward&,
Julius Dettelbach, Secretary,
Alexander Meyer,
f
George Washington Cameron, Ty1.er.
Past Maatera 1

William Henl'y Hat\on,
Elihu Bnrritt Beard;
Obas.Lewis Adolphus Hewel, Walter Benjamin Wood,
John ·Dillard Spencer,

NEWVILLE LODGE, No. 205.
Newville, Glenn County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

RofUe Gustavus Borrows, Master,
Orlando Arthur Borrows, Senior J)eacOfl,
Samuel Stephen Markham, Sen. Warlten, Jacob Styles Dobkins, Juni<Yr Deacon,
Stephen Monson Corrington, J. Warden, J oho Alex. Thievoot Scribner, Marshal
Benjamin Franklin Foreman, 7reaaure.r, Jamee Franklin Ellis,
l
'
Wl!liam Henry Markham, Secretary,
William Franklin Rupert, f Stewards,
Hiram Green, Ohap"lain,
David Markham, Tyler-.
·

Loring William Fulkerth,
John Edward Ward.

MASTER M;ASONS :

Andrews, Richard
Balley, John Valentine
Bailey, Robert Cowert
Beard, Thomae ·Kennan
Benham, J oeeph Marshall
Bledsoe, Willis
Broyles. Samuel Weaver
Dale, William Copeland
Daunt, William Edward
Davis, Franklin Collini!
Davis, Jamee Alfred
De Yoe, Nathan Emory
Durant, James Alvah

Elias, Solomon Philip
Purvis, Richard Benjamin
Enslen, William
Riggs, John Stewart
Fulkerlh, Asa Shin
Ripperdan, Isaac
Griffith, Charles Henry
Root, Millon Burdette
Hall, William Wheeler
Sorensen, Rasmus Andresen
Harp, James David
Spenker,Jos. Theo.Christian
Hartman, Lewis Clinton
Stone, Walter Scott
Hayter ,Abraham LaFayette Stonesifer ,Clarence August's
Jamieson, And'w Robertson Vogelman, Henry
McHenry, Oramll
Voight, Henry.
Meinecke, Edward
Whitby, Freeborn Garrison
Plato Gabriel David
Wright, Chris. Columbus

,

~s.

446

RetuNUJ of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

447

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Lander, Amos Chilton

Leek, Newton Edward

Weyer, Gostavns Adolphos-3.

RIO VISTA LODGE. No. 208.

ENTERED APPRENTICES ;

Bangs, Vitel Emanuel
Crow, Lewis B. S.

Elmore, James Gordon

Gatlin, Elijah Henry-4.

RESTORED:

Rio Vbta, Solano County,

Stated Meetings, Tuesday oj or ne.xt preceding Full Moon.

Bailey, John Valentlne-1.

OFFICERS a

WITHDRAWN:

Briggs, William Henry
Gillingham, Henry Clay

Toombs.George Washington
Harp, Thomas David
-6,
Robinson, Wm. H. Jackson

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bailey, John Valentine
Laird, William Hunter

Toggle, William Harrison
Williams, Napoleon Buford

Zimdar, Otto Erost-5.

John Edward Torner Smith, Sr. Deacon,
Thomes Powell Emigh, Master,
Edward Charles Dozier, Senior Warden, Peter Francis Avey, Juni.or DeacOfl,
Jed Clark Stanton, Maraha~
Philip Jacob Everley, Junior Warden,
l Stewards,
John Robinson,
William Burrows Pressley, Treasurer,
Albert Colby Church, I
lllattbew Stewart, Secretary,
Samuel Tromboll Hadley, '.CYier.
Past Maatera:

Thomas Powell Emigh,
Edward Charles Dozier,

William Burrows Pressley,
Anson William Elliott,

Corrie, Alexander
Davis, Herman
Footman, Henry Edward
Hamilton, James
Hansen, Andrea Edward
Harvie, Robert Alfred

Johnston, Henry Albert
Kelly, Albert Gallatin
KraoSB, John Charles
Laird, Robert Josiah
Lindsay, Orville Andrew
McCall, George Alexander

Matthew Stewart,
Adam Davis Glace.

MASTER MASONS: .

ANAHEIM LODGE, No. 207.
Anaheim, Oran.ire Ooanty.

Stated Meetings, Monday of <>r nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERSa .

William Thomas Brown, Sen. Deacon,
Henry William Chynoweth, Master,
Philip Ackley Stanton, Junior Deaoon,
Sidney Holman, Senfor Warde11,
Henry Adelbe~t Stough, Junior Warden, William M McFadden, Marshal,
- - - - - - , l stewards,
William Morris Higgins, Treiuurer,
- - - - --, I
Joseph Helmsen, Secretary,
Adolphns Thnstio Abbey, Tyler.
Past Maater• 1

William Henry Chynoweth.

William M McFadden,

Miller, Joseph
Schow, Niels Anderson
Talbert, John
Weckwerth, Angostns
Williams, Robert Timothy
-SO.

FELLOW OR.AFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Dozier, Mortimer Robert-1.

Mills, Myron-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT O.E' DUES :

Bryant, John

Roble, Lewis Cass-2.

---- ,

MASTER MASONS:

Amerige, Edward R
Amlin, John
Bacon, Jonathan Edward
Clark, George Crook
Darling, Truman Andrew

Henderson, Wm. Hutchison Pendergast, Austin
Saalwaechter, Paul Christ'o
Johnson, F. W.
Weid, Ivan Alexaod.er
Korn, Frederick Aogust
Krebs, Ferdinand Richard Wrede, Henry Charles Paul
. -22.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Barr, Erwin

Northam, Robert Jamee

Soudeo, Oscar Hay Sporlock-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Davis, Philip

Gardiner, James Smith-2.
DIED:

Rt;iser, Theodore-I.

KING DAVID'S LODGE, No. 209.
San Lui& Obilpo, San Lui• Obf&po County .

Stated MeetiNgs, Wednesday o.f <>r ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Phillip Francis Ready, Senior DeacOfl,
Robert Edgar Jack, Master,
Hamlet Sutcliffe, Junior Deacon,
Ralph Parker Sotlilfe, Sen. Warden,
Harry Ewen McKeooon, Jun. Warden, Charles Jay Rossell, Marshal,
- - - - , l Steward.a,
Pietro Benedetto Perfllmo, frea.surer,
- - --,
Henry Looblioer, Secr6tary,
Andrew Williamson, Py'ler.

r

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodges

448

[Aug. 1,

Alphonse Wash'o Steinhart,
Charles Alson Farnom,
Robert Edgar Jack,
Joseph Henry Beaton.

Alberton!, Nicola
Hansen, Simon Hempel
Nottal, Rep;loald William
Ballon, Stephen Dooglas
Harkioson, Robert
Ortega, Joa~ de!Oarmeo
Barger, Deoil Edward
Hoff, Marcus Jacob
Patten, Joseph Albert
Bassi, Jeo
Hollister, John Hobhard Phillipe, Chaoocey Hatch
Beck, Hiram Jefferson
Johnson, Charles Orrick
Pozzo, Frank, Jr.
Brown, Warren Bateman Johnston , Hosea Holcomb Reid, Thompson
Bromley, Chester Jerome Kay, Ernest James
Remick, Amos Cooch
Oall, Samoel Johnson
Knight, William
Robbins, Fred'k Olmstead
CaBB, James
Lake, Herman Wingate
Saodercook, William
Oerf, Ernest
Lasar, Emanuel
Schwartz, Isidor
Crocker, Adolph
Lasar, Isaac
Schwartz, William
Crocker, Jacob
Lasar, Marcns
!:;hort, James Blake
Dallidet, Pierre Hypolite Lattimer, Benjamin Griffith Shatter, Frederick
Fillipooi, Diooigi
Levy, Isaac Daniel
Biosheimer, Lonie Felix
Frederioks, Joseph
Lewie, Jeese
Story, George
Freeman, George Adelbert Maxwell, Charles·
Thompson, John Horatio
Fry, _Pleates .
McCoy, George Watson
~·ogoazzioi, Antonio
Garrison , Dame! Marcos
Michael, Geo. Washington• Tomassini Lonie
Gilbert, Mathias
Miossi, Bernardo
Tooker, Ir~ Ward
Gladstone, Barton Jackson Netter, Nathan
Unger, Arnold
Goldtr~e, Morris
Niohols, George Burrit
Vachell, Horace Annesley
Goodrich, John Arthur
Noah, Louis Meyer
Vollmer,Edward
Green, Kaufman
Noah, Meyer
Wardeo,Horatio Moore-90.
Green berg, Meyer
FELLOW CRAFTS:

Haley, William Berreman

Jack, Fred B-3.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:
T~ornton, Francis

William

Wightman, J ohn-S.

WITHDRAWN:

Goldtree, Isaac

Pattison, Thomas-2.
DIED:

Davis, William Olarence

Binkley, P Thomas-2.

FRIENDSHIP LODGE, No. 210.
San Jose, Santa Clara County.

Stated Meetings, first T huraday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Langdon Oheves Gordon, Ma1ter,
John Thomas Coyle, Senior Warden,
Dennie Vincent Mahoney, Jun. Warden,
George Botterfleld McKee, '.lreaaurer,
Lemoel Job Chipman, Secretary,
AognstW! Griffin Bennett, Chaplain,

Bamnel Alphonso Barker, William Oharles Kingsbury, Perley Francis Gosbey,
William Henry Clark,
Peter Long,
William Henry Hollis,
Hiram Jerome Ball,
William Larkin Woodrow,
Joseph Albert Lotz,
Langdon Cheves Gordon.
Leslie Sqoire Orcott,
Lemuel Job Chipman,
MASTER MASONS :

MASTER MASONS:

French, Wellington H.

449

Paat Maatera1

Paat Jlfaatera:

Levi Rackliffe,
George Breck Staniford,
Michael Hendereon,
Frederick Adams,
Phillip Francis Ready,
Fred Adolphus Doro,
William Williams Hays,
Benjamin Brooks,
William Harrison Speooer,

Oorbet, J oho

To the Grand Lodge of. California.

1895.]

Heman Grey Sqoier, Senior Deacon,
Delos William Smythe, Jur.ior .Deacon,
Peter Long, Marahal,
Angnstne Wm. Rodolph Berr, l
Albert J acksoo Battee,
f Stewards,
Lewie Amiss Spitzer, 7l1ler.

Allen, Charles Herman
Gillespie, Walter Weir
Pawley, Casper
Anderson, Charles Wallace Gorr, Charles Henry
Perrin, Thomas Abram
Ashmore, Matthew Jamison Gray, ·A lbert .Maywood
Perrin, TCady
Bacon, George Graham
Groves, William French
Porter, Daniel Jewett
Bailey, Lamartine Edward Hall, Jay Pierce
Potts, John Samoel
Barker, Charles Alfonso
Harlem, Henry Jacob
Pratt, Leonard
Barker, Frank Page
Harrie, James Thomae
Purinton, Byron
Bangs, Fred Herbert
Hatman, Frederick David Purinton, Stephen Lafayette
Bodley, Thomas
Haynes, Aaron Jefferson Reeve, Oscar Joel
Boynton, Joshna Trask
Heckenroth, Lonie
Biehl, Adam
Bragg, George Henry
Hines, George Emory
Rose, Fred Oary
.Brandenberg, Geo. Wash'o Hogg, Henry Clay
Rossell, ~·rank Pelatiah
Briggs, John Gregg
Howe, William B
Schroder, Albert
Broedel, Michael
Johnson, Jonathan (}
Scott, Joseph Harry
Brosios, Henry Ooorad
Joho~ton, Joseph Newton Secord, Jamee Kirby
Bruch, Loois
Jones, Harry Ellsworth
Shively, Reobeo Otis
Broner, Henry Smith
Kennedy, William Charles Shoemaker, Frederick
Burt, John James
Koch, Valentine
Shomate, Albert E
Cambers, Joseph Benjamin Ladd, Oscar T
Singletary, Emory Curtis
Oarlinp;, Edward
Lamrook, William Henry Singletary, James Emory
Ohambere, Seymour
Lenzen, Theodore
Smith, Bradley
Ohandler, Charles Alonzo Lewie, Hiram Elisha
Spitzer, Frank Easterday
Chipman, William Fitch
Lighthall, George Elisha Spriog,Hnry.MayoNewhall
Clayton, Edward William Lipsett, Isaac
Steele, Davie
Cook, Joseph Wheeler
Low, William
Steiger, Louis Adolph
Coulter, Will .A
Looeford, Lewis Monroe
Stern, Frederick Marcus
Coykendall, Jonathan
Machefert,Jean Marie Leon Stevens, Orvis
Cozzens, Geo. Washington Main, Earl Paine
Stevenson, Richard
Oraodall, Albert Whitman Mantz, Wlll'ner Henry
Stone, William Boologoe
Ournow, James Russell
.McAfee, Andrew Finley
Thimano,BerohardtCoorad
Davis, Andrew Jackson
McComas, Rush
Thompson, Thomae
Davis, Daniel McDonald
McConnell, Robert
Toney, John Martin
.Dittos, George Benjamin McDougall,Giles Eggleston Tooker, Simeon Edward
Dittos, John Jacob
.McGary, Nathan W
Vale, William
Drexler, Henry Otto
McNeil, Albert Beebe
Van Doreten, Henry Orvis
Easterday, John Davis
.Mc Williams, And. Shannon ·walthall, Jeter
Elber, Edward John
Mc Williams, James
Warring, Franklin Bertrand
Entriken, Benjamin Funk MeBBing, John Henry
Welch, George W
Farrington, Archibald
· .Mocker, Andrew
Whitehurst, George Arthnr
Finlay, Samuel Henry
Montgomery, Thomas S
Whitehurst, Joel Shipp
Flsher,.Joho Edward
Moreland, Samuel Edgar Whitehurst, Thomas Weldon
Fisher, Thomas
.Morgotten, Alex. Phillip
Williams, Charles R.
Fitzgerald, George Lee
Northern, William Leander Williams, Edward
Fleming, George Alexander Osgood, Marlon Hudson
Williams, Thomas Northey
Fox, Abraham D.
Oosley, George Washington Wilson, Lewis Benjamin
Gee , William _
Pallesen, Christen
Worthen, Geo. Washington~
Geer, Albert Warren
-160.

38

450

Re~urns of the Subordinate .Lodges

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand .Lorlge of OaJ,ijornia.

1895.]

451

WITHDRAWN :

Herrod, John

Menzel, Robert-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Farwell, Albert Bingbam Hayden, Zachariah Taylor Phelp~, George Marsliall-4.
Gansline, Oharles Wesley

SOUTH SAN FRANCIS CO LODGE, No. 212.
San Frauciaoo, San Francisco County.

Stated Meetings, first Tl1ursday in each month.

DIED:

OFFICERS :

Schlessinger, Gnstave-1.

Charles Frank Kiepert, Senior Deacon,
George Thomas Shaw, Maater,
Adolph Frederick Fitschen, Sen. Warden, Harry Frederick R&hlmann, Jun.Deacon,
.Allen Botler, Mar8hal,
Parker Jo11n .Ashford, Jun. Warden,
l SteUJardl,
Samuel Hansen,
Jamee Smart Bailey, Treall'Urer,
James Peter Petersen,
Elias 0 Hare, Secretary,
Joseph T Hate, Tyler.
Cornelins Edward Dunshee, Ohaplain,

r

Paet Ma1ters•

SAN BENITO LODGE, No. 211.
Hollister, Sau Benito County.

Wm. John Bagley Warner,
Geo;rge Thomas Shaw,
Henry Fairfax William~,
Henry Oar) Birhe.
Francis A.ngastns Barrett, David Byron Todd,
Cornelius Edward Dunehee ,
Elias O Hare, .

Stated Meetings, Satu.raay of or ne:x:t preceding Fu.7.l Moon.
OFFICERS :

Edward B Montgomery, Senior DeacOn,
James Henry Tebbetts, Maater,
Eugene !ills worth Bolton, Seniur Warden, George Washington Oole Junior Deacon
'
Francis Newton Hitchcock, Jun. Warden, Nash Oorwith Briggs, M~l'lrha~
}
Benjamin Floyd
Heylin Beaumont Harris, Treaaure1·,
Stewards'
'
Lewis Harmon Barker,
- .- - - - - , Seeretary,
George A Black, 'l'yllJr.
Past Mastera•

Robinson Rncklidge,
William Guilford Lee,
Francis .Asbury Cunning,
Nash Oorwith Briggs,

John .Adolph Steinbeck,
William Pascoe, Jr.,
George Wepple,

Judson Geronld Hamilton,
Wilhelm Peter Steinbeck,
Harry Coleman.

MASTER MASONS:

' .
Parker Joseph
Hodges, JAmes I
.Asher, William Clayton
Voss Peck Charles
William
Hollingberry,
Baker, Reuben Joseph
Porie'r, George Oooper
Baldwin, .T~omae Lankster Hnbbard, William
.Rosenberg, Marcos
Jeffries, Martin
Black, Wilham W11~ter
Shaw, George Eden
Briggs, :V~sh Corwith, Jr. Ladd, Leonard March
Lauritzen, Otto Ohristian Shaw, Roderick
Olay, Wilham Thomas
Shore, Frank E
Logan, Sanford Erwin
Ooleman, Bernard
Shorn, Richard Eli"ah
Lowe, Jolin Thomas
Ooy, .Arthnr Henry
Skow,Peter Christ.JLanrid'n
McConnell, Geo. Mont'y
Orow, William Jasper
Bnibley, Jacob
McOray, Harry Walter
Dalzell, William Francis
McPhail, Dan'I F. Havelock Speegle, Andrew Jackson
Eppenheimer , William
Montgomery,<lranv'e Bona. StophenRon, Robert Proxies
Freels, Samuel 0
Tonn, Adolph
Nash, Francis Orlando
French, Theodore Hugh
Wagn"r, Hiram
Nash, Pontalba Lavique
Frenr;~J, Erdman .August
Walberg, Lars Erick
Nye, Jacob
Green, Alfonso
Wells, Stillman Timothy
Ottolin!, Ludovico
Ham~lton, Fred Judson
_ 8.
·
Hardm, Amos Marshal
6
FELLOW CRAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Townsend, William Panl-1.

Kent, Sylve.ster Elmer-1.

MASTER MASONS :

Rines, Jamee Pomeroy
Andrews, William James Israel, Simon
Rowe, Thomas
.ArtigueR, Chas. Alexander Jen1!4ln, Hansen
Sambuk, Prosper
Barailes, Eogene Lewie E. Kemline, Ladwig
Schoretg, George
Kidd, Wiiiiam
Baraille, John William
Schnte, Richard .Alexander
Kramer, Lewis George
Barry, Mathew Bryant
Litchfield, Charles Amiear Simpson, Josiah Adam
Bayle, John
Smith, Henry
Landy, Thomas
Beaty, James ·
Stewart, Robert William
Bennett, Geo. Washington Madsen, Robert Kelly
Maguire, Michael Edward Stevenson, Edward
Bird, Johannes William
Btronse, Mark
Mahlstadt, Henry
Crosby, Horton James
Mangels, Hans Max Chris'n Stnmpf, John
Crnnett, Fred
Switzer, John Jacob
McDonald, William
Deiterich, Christian
Dirks, John .Andrew l.Jeasar McLaughlin, Moses .Alfred Tanner, William
Donnelly, Francis Roscoe Merritt,George Washington Taylor, Benjamin Ethel
Taylor, James King
Eaetman, George Solomon Miller, Alexander
Thompson, Charles
Miller, John Edward
Edwards, Edward
Tingley, Bed!'ord Almer
Milly, Charles
Ellis, William Potts
Triefts, Edward Olitford
Milly, Jerome
Ervin, Henry John
Van Valor, Nathaniel
Molfat, I{.enry
Fickett, James Everett
Warburton, Jamee Henry
Moholy, John
F!!senm, Severt
Wilkie, Duncan
M.ngge, Christian
·Graham, Georp:e
Williams, Frederick Lonie
Mundt, Adolph
Hamm, Sigmond
Wilson, John .Archibald
Hamilton, James William Nonnemann, OIJarles
Woenne, Emil
Onken, John William
Hansen, Pet.er
Wolf, Lewis
Peyre, Jean Joseph
Hare, Frederick Eli
Worsdale, Henry
Pfeifer, George Peter
Hare, John S
Zimmermann, Philip-100.
Rairdon, Daniel Patrick
Hoffman, Isaac L
Riccomi, Olinto
Horn, !Jernard Jeremiah
ENTERED APPRENTICE S :

Ommirst, Adam

Reiser, Edwin Oliver

Strahl, Paul Charles-3.

WITHDRAWN :

Hodgkin, De Courcy William-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

DIED:

Schumacher, Richard John-1.

Ranlett, Frank Antonio-1.

452

Returns of the StthordJi:rulie Lodg.es

[Aug. 1,

SAN BUENAVENTU RA LODGE , No. 214.
Ventara, Ventura County.

OFFICER S1

Herbert Alvaro Giddings, Senior Deacon,
Beojamio Tully Williams, Master,
Andrew Jackson Comstock, Jun. Deacon,
Willis Philip Lioco!o, Senior Warden,
Laeco Addison Mitchell, Juntor Warden, Ulyeee Slmpeou Graot Falkenstein , Mar.,
}
Andrew Badgley
Henry Clay, '.lret.tsurer,
Ste1oards'
'
W1·i1·1am Henry Albert Thom peon, Seo'y. Henry Isaac Hoppins,
Tyler.
Riley,
Marion
James
Amos Dodley Seward, Ohaplain,
Paat Maatera1

George Cook,
David Rhodes Denison,
Merritt E Hotchkiss,
Charles Osborn Taylor,
James Walker.

MASTER MASONS:

De A1mao, David Hamilton Newbauer, Sigmund Joseph
Allyn, Calvin Ethan
Samuel Thompson Newby, Thomas Sheridan
Dickson,
Lewie
Jacob
Argabrite,
Power, George Coffin
Ely, Martin Juda
Bard, Cephas Lyttle
Barnes, George Silverman Featheretoo e,J88. ·wmiam Robbins, Joseph Brown
Rose, John
Garland, Thomas
Bell, William Alexander
Beochley, Edward Kellogg Gosnell, Truman Barrick Roth, Joseph
Shaw, Nathan Hastings
Hall, Edwin Seib
Bernheim, Abraham
Sheldon, Charles Henry
Harkey, James Simeon
Bodreau, Edward Silas
Simpson, George Lyman
Cannon, William Herschel Healey, Charles Edward
Simpson, Volney Alex.
Holland, Jacob Headley
Cerf, Leoo
Stewart, George E
Chrisman, Gilpin Wallace · Kelsey, Joseph Barnet
Todd, Theodore
Churchmao,JoeephLowde-o Larmer, John
Vincent, William Cluett
Layne, William Henry
Collins, John Stevenson
Walker, John Alfred
Crawford, James Monroe McGuire, William
Franklin Pierce
Ward,
D
Jesse
Morgan,
Henry
Thomas
Daly,
Welle, Moses Taggart-7 t.
Myers, Jacob Kinellly
Day, James Allen
FELLOW ORAFTS :

Ready, William Edward-,,

ENTERED APPRENTIC ES:

Sackett, George Lincoln

Saeger, Benjamin Levan-2.
RESTORED :

Robbins, Joseph Brown

Taggart, Edwin

Vincent, William Clnett-S.

WITHDRAWN:

lilcKeeby, Lemuel Clarke

Niece, Claiborne F

Taggart, Edwln-3.

BUBPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Haberer, Joseph Julius-I.

453

OAK GROVE LODGE ,. No. 215.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in e,ach 'TTWnth.
OFFICER S1

Elmer Ellsworth Johnson, Senior Deacon,
James Burton Barber, Master,
Arthur Mock, Junior Deacon,
Edward Bell Lovejoy, Sen. Warlkn,
Benj. Salsbury McFarland, Jun. Wai·den, Charles Herbert Weaver, Marsha~
l 81.ewards,
John E~han Chappell,
John Henry Nobmaon, '.lreaaurer,
Benjamin Francie Lamborn, f
Oswald Lubbock, Secretary,
William Tooker Valentine, Tyler.
Alfred Thomas Perkins, Ohaplain,
P a•t Maatera 1

Frederick William Baker,
Jamee Forman Kingsley,
Herbert Alvaro Giddings,
Nehemi11h Blackstock,
Gabriel Sprowler Chrisman,

Kilson; George Elmer
Bill, Ernest Rice
Kaufman, Parke Wilfred

·'Io the (}rood Lodge of California.

Alameda, Alameda· County.

Stated Muting1, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

LaFayette Fiodla Eastin,
Marion Caoooo,
Kenneth Peter Grant,
Eogeoe Preston Foster,
Edward Taylor Hare,
Benjamin Tully Williams,

1895.]

Wm.Ang'sL indleyKnow les, Alfred Thomas Perkins,
Eliphalet Minor Smith,
Cyrne Austin Brown,
John Yablonsky,
Robert McGoun,
Morri~oo Lee Brown,
Jamee Alfred Collins,
James Millington,
Wm. Bainbridge Storey,
Eugene Cormeoy,
John Henry Eickhoff',
Albert Wm. Joho Gibbs.
Henry Vandeveer Herbert, Dennie Joseph Sullivan,
James Burton Barber,
James Bestor Merritt,
MASTER MASONS :

Fischer, Charles Frederick Lehners, Carl Fred'k Aug.
A.mes, George Spencer
Flatter, Benjamin Franklin f,eydecker, Theodore Wm.
Ayer, I@aac
Loomis, George Rodney
Fletter, Freeborn Jacob
Ayers, Wilson D
Lorber, Jo~eph
Barstow, Joseph Nathaniel Forderer, Joseph Frank
Lubbo<lk, Cllotoo Henry
Foeeing, Joho Charles
Barton, Phineas Wesley
Lubbock, Henry Schultz
Gilfillan, Jam es Cairns
Baruch, Isidor
Mackle,Ale xander
01\eemaon, Henry
Baxter, Robert William
Magill, Robert Henry
Beoseman, George Adolph Goldstone, John
Benton, Warren Goodlett Griffiths, George Chandler Mangels. Christophe r
Martin, David Wilkin•
Hall, Gilbert Cowles
Bliss, John George
Mastick, Charles Levi
Hally, Frank
Boehmer, Fritz
Mathiesen, Martin William
Hammond, Charles John
Brower, Robert Wilcox
Harboarne. John Wesley Meigs, John J.
Brick, Charles John
Chapman, Isaac Newton • HaRkell, Walter Williams Meee~r. Jo•eph Oneeeme
Michael•, Henry
Hatfield, Anthony Jones
Clark, George Benjamin
Mitchell, Sidney George
Herrman, Charles Louis
Clilford, JoReph
Morris, Thomae Coke
Holt, Edward JameR
o·ollier, Richard Henry
Nauman, Paul Zellgo
Holtz, William
Connelly, Peter Joseph
Jenkins, Frederick Eugene Nelson, Hane
Cousins, Frederick Wm.
Noy,Willia m Henry
Johnson, Christian Ole
Crowell, George Dana
Oehlmann, Ludwig
Jonae, Henry Harrison
Crooks, Richard
Painter, Edward Robinson
jones, Reed
Culver, Marshall Lyman
Kaolf'mano, Emil Hermann Payne, George Henry
Daniel, Jamee
Perkin•, Franklin Lumnis
Kimball, Maraud
Decker, Henry Peters
Petersen, Carl Cbris'n Ang.
Dorwlo, Geo. Wadsworth Klein, Peter
Peterson, Andrew Hansen
:S:oerber, August
Ellsworth, John
Falkinham, Joseph Jewett Konigehofer, Julius Jonae Pette•, William Ethan
Lancaster,Americue Vesp's Phillips, Louis Albert
Farris, Edward Read
Plummer, George Elliott
Lancaster, Joseph
Fast, J-odson Lincoln

454

Returns of the Sul>ordin<d,e Lodges

Poyzer, Willfam Richard
Rea, William Lemoin ·
Reynolds, George Potter
Ronndy, Alvan
Sansom, John Andrew
Schoenaa, Henry
Soott, A.rth ar Walter
Beveoiog, Henry
Sheeran, James Andrew
Sherman, Samuel
Siegfried, John Christian
Simon, Lucien
Smith, John Alexander

[Aug. 1,

Tisdale, Charles ~wis
Spreokels , Richard
StelU.ner, Emil Johann C. Traube, Hartwig
Van Ordeo, Leander, Jr.
Stephenso n, Stanley
Van Oterendor p, Klaas
Stoddard, Asa Church
Strong; Milton Grosvenor Volberg, Charles Christian
Stratford, Harry Cornish Vol berg, Frederick Ludwig
Vosburg, Joel Brown
Sturtevan t, George
Wall, Joseph George
Swayaen, Robert Henry
Taylor, Edward Kimberlin Ward, Henry
Williams, Edward Alfred
Thomas, Wllliam Paul
Thompson , Hans Andreas Woodin, Eugene
Woodward , Arthur Sedley
Thompson , Robert R
Yoong, Lare Gnstaf-15 3.
Throop, James Hervey
ENTERED APPRENTI OE :

..

Cordes, Hermann, Jr.-1.
WITHDRA WN:

Dobbs, Willis Snowden

Studley, Frank Edward-2 .
DIED:

Crosby, Elisha Oscar

Pattison, Edward A.dolphos -2.

DORIC LODGE , No. 216.
San Franclae o, San Franllbe o co 11nty,

8fated Meetings, first Thursday in each montk.
OFF'JCE RS:

"- · D
Thomae Locker Hi'll , """'wr
Lad wig Mathia• Hoefler, Ma.ater,
eacoti,
GI
w·w
Deacon,
Junior
Myrson,
Simon
Warden,
Senior
Copeland,
eon
.
iam
1
Henry W1lllamson, Junfor Warden, · Morris Falk, Mar.Jlal,
.
James McLean
Marcus Marks, Trt1aBUrer,
Siegmund Aag~tein,} Ster.oarda,
Adolph Kronberg, Secretary,
Philip Riegelhaa pt (of Pauific, 186), Tyler.
- - - - - - , O'haplain,
Paat lllauen,

Lonson Martin Manzer,
Lorenz Nickel.
William Frederick Corlett,
Morris Bernhard Levy,
Charles Metaphor Chase,

Louis Frank Danand,
Lonie Simon l:lchoenfeltl,
Thomae Benton White,
John P Fraser,
William Trebell,

Joline William Lowe,
James Francese Logan,
Moritz Kalmok,
Samuel Welch.

1895.J

To the Grarid Lodge of Oal,ij<Yl"nfn,.

Nolting, Edward Adolph
Holsman, Albert
Bressi, Enrico Giuseppe
O'Connor, Joseph
Putney
Edward
Geo.
Hnot,
Martin
Brigman,
Hurrell, Alfred Cornelins Oliver, Edward
Buckland, Owen
Packscber , Adolph
Jacobs, My~r
Caccia, Joseph
Palmer, James
Janes, Graziano
Campbell, George Taose
Paterson, Walter Redford
Johnson, Edward
Oarletoo, Slicer Bacy
Johnson, Frederick Joseph Paton, George
Oassaesa, Charles Henry
Peirce, Charles Vincent
Clawson, Leonard Edwin Julio, A.xtel Fredrik
Pence, John Wilson
Kaplan, Abraham
'
Oohn, Herman
Peshon, Peter Alfred
Kartachok e, Gustav
ColliDB, Samuel Henry
Chas. Gae. Ferd.
Peterson,
Charles
Katz,
Marum
Cooper, Samuel
Pieroti, Hen.C.Collingwood
Keller, Richard
Oordes, Claus Henry
Plato, David
Kennedy, Joseph
Cronan, William
Kilpatrick ;Robt.Bal lantyne Plummer, Sanford
Dangers, Henry
Raphael, James Greerson
Klinger, Obarles
Delany, William
Riley, John Francis
Klopstock , Cortis
Denker, Nicholas Carl
Kropp,He rmaoChri stopher Risk, Joseph
Dieckman, John Henry
Robinson, BeD!Y Oooke
Lande, Edward
Donlsoo, Harry John
Rohrbache r, Philip
Laodgreen , William
Doro, Gus. Emil
Rothschild, Abraham
Laraen, Bans Henrik
Drucker, AngDBt
Rothschild, Joseph ·
Larsen, Louis Albert
Dyer, George Henry
Rusconi, John Battista
Edmondson, William Henry Leszynsky, Isidor
Samson, John Peter
Levi, Mark
Eickhoff, Henry
Schmalz, William
Levy, Adolph
Elliot, Frederick Nelson
Schussler, Michael
Levy, Eliae
Ferra!, Robert
Schuster, O!emeot John
:Fitzgerald, Robt. Harrison Levy, Joseph
Sherman, James Spotswoo d
Levy, Louis
Flanagan, James
Sperling, Frank
Levy, Mark Washington
Frlzzi, August
Sterofels, Bernard Henry
Levy, Solomon
Gallup, James
Levy, Waiter Heydenfel dt Stokes, Henry Arthur
Geddes, William
Littlefield, Joseph Bight Stookey, Charles Jamee
Glanettonf, Stefano
Swanberg , Charles Olof
LoPJestl, Anthony
Gillespie, William John
William Tobias
Thomson,
Willie
Clarence
Lowe,
Giorgi, Linio
Tilton, James Alexander
Lucas, Pierre Marie
Goicovich, George J
Trebell, John
Ladwig, Ernst Bubert
Goldberg, Max
Warren, Charles Albert
Goldsmith, Julias Raphael Lustig, Daniel David
Magee, David Bartholomew West, Peter Frederick
Gorter, Herman Henry
Wheeler, Edward Alvin
Maher, John Henry
Grant, Is..ac
White, William Mercer
Markewitz, August
Greene, Elwood Lucius
Whitney, John Tyler
Martinon!, Emil
Gutman, Alexander
Williamson, George
Martinoni, James Frank
Hammond, Philip
Wilson, James
McD~nald, John Weir
Harri11, Samuel
Withers, Louie Albert Thoe.
McE!roy, Andrew
Barria, William
Woolf, Michael Joseph
Hartje, John Herman Fred. Mikkiesoo, Robert
Yaroeberg , Charles
Mulville, Daniel Frank
Heller, Joseph
Nagle, Richard Hamilton Zacharias, Lyon
Hennessey, Henry
Zeitler, Friedricb -181.
Heaston, Frederick Green °Nanoesta d, Henrik Elias
Bornblow.e r, Fred'k Aug's
FELLOW CRAFTS :

MASTER MAl!ONS:

Abrams, Nathan
Adler, Nathan Max
Allen, Frank Orrick
Allingham, William
Anderson, Henry

Anderson, John Olof
Andrews, .Abraham
A.van, John
Badt, A.lex. Lipschnetz
Banks, Willfain Oscar

Bennett, Geo. Washington
Bingham, Henry Walker
Boehm, Daniel
Borrone, Santi Filippo
Bosch, Peter

455

Morris, Henry

Mooser, Willlam, Jr.-2,
ENTERED APPRENTI CES :

Landler, Lonie

W:igmire, Alphonse A.delbert- 2.

456

Returns of the Subordinate Lodge,s

[Aug. 1,

Po the G'f'and Lodge of Oalifomw.

1895.l

WITHDRAWN:

ENTERED APPRENTICE S:

Be.rme.n, Miehe.el-I.

Simmons, Edwe.rd Thomas Menomy-ll.

McDonald, Philip

RESTORED:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Arnheim, Willie.m Se.mnel Ferris, Cre.wford
Perry, David
Benson, Willie.m Fre.ncls
Redmond, Miehe.el Fre.ncis
Levin, De.vid
Bre.ndt, Frederick John
McFe.rle.nd, John Arthur F. Townsend, Thome.s-11.
De.atngne, Ge.brel
McSte.y, John Joseph

Byme, Edward James-2.

Barnes, Zopher Pliny

FOR NON-PAYMEN
SUl:IPENDED
. T OF DUES:
.

WITHDRAWN :

Pfister, Jnlins-1.

Orow, Richard-L

DIED:

Batton, Willia111-l.

DIED:

Ee.gleson, Ere.atns
Ewen, Oliver

4:57

Herspring, Joseph

Mechling, Gibson-i.

MOSAIC LODGE, No. 218.
Livermore, Alameda County •

.MONTER EY LODGl!l, No. 217.

8tated Meetings, Saturday 'Of or next 11UCGeeding F'ull Moon.

lllonte.cey, Monterey County,

OFFICERS a

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Fre.nk Pierce, Sentor Deacon,
Thome.s Gre.fton Le.mhert, Mallter,
Willie.m Je.mes Towle, Junior DeaCOfl,
Andrew Hiller, Senior Warden,
Je.cob We.rren Be.ghy, Junior Warden, - - - - - - - - , Marshal,
Edwe.rd Spencer Josselyn, t
Je.mes Bowme.n Snively, Treasurer,
f 8tetaards,
Adolph Ge.rrick,
Willie.m Edgar Cre.wford, Secretary,
Luther Simmons Toothe.ker, Tyler.

Joseph He.rdy Taylor, Mo.ster,
John Oarey Hayes, Senior Warden,
Madison Hartwell Beck, Junior Warden,
Fre.ncis Bonello Jl'assett, ~easurer,
Willie.m Henry Wright, &t:reta'"71,
Watkin William Wynn, Ohaplain,

Paat Maatena

Francis Bonello F6ssett,
Willie.m Henry Wright,

Joseph Hardy Taylor,

Angeloponlo, Pany Henry
Armstrong, John
Aylwe.rd, John
Be.Hey, Hire.m
Be.rker, Benjamin P
Barron, Andrew Sculley
,Beck, John
Blstorions, Albert
Bowles, J'esse
Bowles, William Bolman

Olose, Je.mea Edward
Demartini, Antonio
Harris, Joseph
Hortenstfne, John Baker
Inman, Dani11I
Jordan, Wendell
Kennedy, George Edwin
McDone.ld, De.vid
McKown, Joseph Oscar
Mnnch, Che.rles Gottlieb

P&11t Maetera:

Thomas Gre.fton Le.mbert,
Hire.m Je.irns Pe.lmer,

John Randolph Patrick,
Che.rles Newton Bennett,

Mason Lorenzo Dexter.

MASTER MASONS :

Anwe.y, Cle.yton Loren
Be.mes, Zopher Pliny
Barnet, Emanuel
Be.ssett, Abner
Bre.lee, Thomas
Bronson, Andrew
Barns, Edward
Oook, Theodore Webster
Onpples, William
Ee.ton, Fre.nk Eugene
Edwe.rds, William Se.wyer
Escolle, Honore
Gell, Se.muel Fre.nklin
Grimes, Edwe.rd

Gnnzendorfer, Ferdine.nd
He.rris, William L
Hilby, Fre.nois Martin
Ingham, George Fre.ncia
Ingre.m, Ed we.rd
Ireland, Matthew Oollins
Je.cks, Will
Kent, Henry Edmnnd
Leppert, Joseph
Little, David Spence
Little, Milton Thome.a
Me.nuel, Angnstin Antoine
Me.eters, Henry

McMillen, Hire.m
.Mitchell, Robert Grant
Parker, Wm.MatticskRogers
Prinz, Herme.n Juline Otto
Pyburn, Willie.m Henry
Sargent, Je.mes Pe.tty
S~he.nfele, Lonie
Stewart, We.lter
8tockde.le, James Thomas
Snrryhne, Ise.ac
Syme, Edwe.rd .Te.mes
Swetnam, Ise.ao Newton
Wright, James-5(.

Wilbur Mortimer Doyal.

MASTER MA.SONS :

Owens, Owen Thomas
Pitcher, Henry Hinsde.le
Schoenstedt, Johann Karl F.
Schrader, Frederick Angnst
Te.ylor, William Stewart
Thomas, Benje.min Franklln
Waterme.n, Lonie Philip
Webb, Edmund Standish
Wells, Che.rles Samuel
Wells, Thomas Dickenson.

-•3.

FELLOW ORA.FT :

Littlefield, John Franklin-1.
ENTERED APPSENTIOE S1

Scarlet, John-2.

Bonnel, Albert
WITHDRAWN:

Gray, Newton-1.
FELLOW CRAFT:

Daingerfield, frank Edwin-L

John Thome.a Fe.rley Wells, Sen. DeacOfl,
Riobe.rd Griffiths Willie.ms, Junior Deacon,
Nathaniel Breed Holmes, Mar1hal,
Renben Hunter, l Steuiardl,
Silas Lee Savage, f .
Jacob Franklin Myers, T11ler.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Fowler, Fre.nk Leon-I.
DIED:

Dolan, Leo

39

Enright, Francis Peer-2.

458

Retu_rns of the. 8uhordinate Lorigea

[Aug. I,

To the Grand Lorige. of California.

1895.J

459

WITHDRAWN :

LOGGIA SPERAN ZA ITALIAN A, No. 219.

Barli, Alessandro f,ociano

Lncohetti, Francesoo-3 .

Lepor1, Constantino

SUSPENDED FOR NON,PAYMENT OF DUES:

San Francbco, San FranclMCO County.

Zelro, Felippo-1.

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.

DIED:

OFFICERS•

Goiseppe Oalegarls, Master,
Lorenzo Di Grazia, Senior IJeacon,
Giovaooi Scalmanlnni, Senior Warden, Silvio Belli, Junior Deacon,
Harry Giaxa, Junior Warden,
Serafino M-arengo, JlarNial,
Giuseppe Carlo Sala, 7reasurer,
d
St
Giovanni Lepori,
e1Dar 8 '
Benjamino Moron, Seuretary,
Garibaldi J acoheri,
Fioreozo Oavagnaro, Ohaplain,
Philip Riegelhanpt (of Pacl'fW Lodge, No. 136), 7}/Zer.

Rnffioo, Laigi Jo~--4.

Ginocchio, Domenico

Biagioi, Pacifico
Daneri, Antonio

I

P . .tMaateru
Carlo Scalmanini,
Beniamino Moron,
Giuseppe Onesti,

Andrea Davlnl,
AleBSandro Zahaldano,
Carlo Balzarini,
Giuseppe Carlo Sala,

Fiorenzo Oavagnaro,
Vincenzo Ravenna.
Giuseppe Bini.

Downey, Los Angeles County.

Stated Meetings, Saturda.v of or next preceding Full Moon.

MASTER MASONS:

Antooelll, Vincenzo
Domenic!, Baeflio
Palmieri, Egis\o
Arata, Francisco
Fantina, Antonio
Paltenghi, Andrea
Baccilieri, Achille
Fochetti, Mattia
Pasquale, Benedetto
Bacigalupi, Gaetano
Fontana, Marco Giovanni PaBSalacqoa, Bened~tto
Bacigalupi, Palo
Frediani, Gniseppe
Percivalle, Carlo
B&BSi, Giuseppe
Gadlna, Pietro
Peri, Lnigi Giuseppe
Bazznro, Giuseppe
Gianettoni, Malachia
Pestelacci, Tobia
Bianchi, Oarlo
Gracchi, Luigi
Picetti, Pietro. ·
Brlzzolara, J,aigi
Goanziroli, Luigi
Podesta, Giuseppe
Bozzinl, Gandenzio
Goaraglia, Giacomo
Puccinelli,.Vincenzo
Caglieri, Giorgio Gfovannl Lam!, Edoardo
Rslfo, Antonio
Oamillooi, Giuseppe
Leonardi, Salvatore
Roccatagliata,Giovanni Bat.
Oaoepa, Pietro
Levaggi, Giovanni B.a ttista Rossi, Bartoli Pietro
Oamiglia, Egidio
Magitio, Fortunato
Sbarhoro, Andrea
Caros8o, Paolo
Marcacci, Antonio
Simi, Gaetaoo
Casassa, Agostino
Masoero, Lodovico Ce1111re Slavich, Giorgio
Oaselli, Antonio
MeBSina, LoigfOandido
Sresovich, Luke (}
Oondari, Teodoro
Micheletti, Italo
Taccone, Gianvito
Cuneo, Giovanni
Micheletti, Pietro
Torre, Giovanoi
Damonte, Antonio
Molinari, Giuseppe Pietro Tonini, Michele Gaodenzlo
Dell' Osso, Carlo
Morelli, Severio Giovanni Trezzioi, Bernardo
Delmonte, Angelo
Moretti, Attilio
Vaccari, Vincenzo
Diveochio, Emilio
Nigro, Fabrizio
Valente, Loigi-88:
Divecchio, t:!tefano
FELLOW CRAFTS :

Paladini, Achille

DOWNE Y LODGE, No. 220.

OFFICERS :

Ranee Bird Harris, Senior Deacon,
Delos De Wolf De Nore, Malter,
William Curtis Smith, Junior IJeaoon,
John Daw~on Ardis, 861'ior Wanlen,
Samuel Crawford Hammer, .Tun. Warden, George Earl East, Mar•haZ,
t Steward•
Louis Cohn,
William Carothers, Trea.'Nrer,
'
Parley Chapman Mitchell, f
Joho Harris Brown, Secretary,
Barney William Shanker, Tyler.
.Jeremiah Clay, Oliaplatn,
Past Mastera 1

Delos De Wolf De Nure,
Jeremiah Clay,

Ardis, Julius Harris
Baruch, Berthold
Boster, .John Walker
Caoovan, Thomu
Cheney, Tilford Denton
Ooildit, William Robert
Finley, William Asa
Gray, Anstio Newell
Gray, Algernon Sidney
Grillln, George Winston
Hill, lames Andrew

Hooghtoo, Lake William Rowley, Quintin John
Ryan, Aodrew William .
Levy, Samuel
Scott, Henry Addison
Lewin, John Peter
Settle, Marcus George ·
Loew, .Jacob
Smith, Charles Wheeler
Martin, Frank Emerson
Stewart, Alexaoder
Mnnohan, Patrick
Stewart, James .
Orr, William Warren
Pemberton, .James Nicholas Squires, Andrew Jackson
Woodward, Sam'I Kitchens
Perkins, John Fraoklin
Woody, Millard Fillmore
Ralpb, James William
-46.

MASTER MASONS:

WITHDRAWN :

:Oelosa, Francesco-2 .

Garibaldi, Giovanni Antooio

DIED:

Tisnado, Modesto-8.

RESTORED:

Harli, AleBSandro, Lnciano

SchleBSinger, Jacob-2.

Dunlap, Albert Houstoo

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Bassetti, Ipolito

Thomae Faulkner Renfro,
Gray Harvey Romeyn.

Joeeph William Venable,
Banse Bird Harris,

Canepa, Pietro-2.

Bedwell, Robert Donald

Blythe, James Thome.s-2.

460

Retwr'TUI of the Svbordina.te Lodge,s

[Aug. It

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of California

461

lllASTEB MASONS;

Perkins, William Dana
Armeden, loelah William Hackett, Don Zemoria
Rowland, Robert
Bolder, John
Chamberlin, Jerome B
Smith, Benj. Franklin, Br.
William
Hnft,
Michael
John
Oonnor,
Thomae, Lee Dingns
Strnttons
John
Jeftrey,
Day, Jqseph Calhoon
Van Maren, Philip
Duncan, Oharles Douglas Ketcham , Marvin
Vivaldo, Panl
Estabroo k, Jndson .Alonzo Knapp, John Corliss
Warmington,Clar'nce Elmer
McGinley, John
Fllson, Lee
Whallon, Samuel Norton
Newton, Thomas
Gilbert, Thomas Mack
-38.
Grindell, Albert Maurice P11.nebaker, Edw'd Elsworth

INYO LODG E, No, 221.
Indepen dence, InJ'O (Jount;v.

Stated Meeting•, Saturda y of or ne:r:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICE llS1

Omie Isaac Mairs, Senior DeCUlfnt,
Thomas Carroll Boland, Master,
Neil McLean, Junior Deaoon,
Warden,
Sen.
e,
McKenzi
r
James Alexande
Joseph Viley Skinner, Marahal,
Geo~ge Herbert Lewie, Jun. Warden,
.AlveyCnrtis Harvey l
Patrick Henry Mack, '.l'reaiNrer,
Jarine David Maire, 'f 8tewardll,
Bertrand Rhine, Searetary,
George Washington Brady, 2l,iler.

RF.BTORED:

FKLLOW OR.AFT:
Corli~s, Henry

Van Maren, Philip-1 .

Burbert- 1.

Put Ma•tera :

Patrick Henry Mack,
Andrew Neel Bell,
John Wash'n Pierce Laird, John Sarsfield Gorman,
John Shepherd,

Thomas Oarroll Boland,
Irving Harvey Mnlholland.

MASTER MASONS:

Brady, James
Cartier, Hilaire Philibert
CollinP, George
Oonklin, Norma.n Edward
Gill, George Monroe ,
Gregg, Stephen Gregg
Barrell, William Oscar

Pidge, William O
Harvey, Wm. Buchanan
Hoover, Jerome Bonaparte Piper, Noah Twidney
.Richards, William JI(.
Howard, Panl Zepbirin
Wa.lker, .Angast
Irwin, John Clemence
Walker, Webster Hilton
Johnson, David .A
Wren, Andrew Ja.ckson
Meroney, William Oscar
Newlon, Samuel Jefferson Yaney, Israel Pntnam, Jr.·

ENTERED APPRENT ICE:

DIED:

Anson, John Charles- I.

Moore, James Jackson- 1.

-37~

BAKE RSFI'E LD LODG E, No. 224.
Bakersf ield, Kern County.

Stated Meetings, 'l'huraday of or 11ezt preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICE RS 1

Hngh .Allen Blodgett, Master,
Frank Ssbinus Rice, Senior Wardlln,
Elijah Ronssean, Junwr Warden,
Alphonse Weill, Treasurer,
Frank Engene Valebtine, Secref4ry,
Joseph Hamilton Henry, Ohapla.in,

Jamee Benjamin Hont, Senior Deooon,
Jo. Everette Patton, Junior Deaoon,
Daniel Bernard Jerrne, Marshal,
Albert Clement Mande, I Stetcard6
'
John Chambers Morrison, f
Dana Ebenezzer Hntchins, 'Iyl.er.

Past Maatera :

GRAN ITE LODG E, No. 222.

Benjamin Brundage,
Lewis Styles Rogers,
Henry Alexander Jastro,

Bocklln , Placer County.

Stated Meetings, Saturda y of or na:t precedin g Full Moon.
OFFICE R81

J~mes Philo Borchard, Senior Deacon,
John Sweeney, Maater,
Alvin Olarence Thyle, Junior Deacon,
Warden,
Senlor
Dyer.'
Ralst?n
John
Isidor Levison Marlhal
Jamee A.still, Junwr Warden,
'
'
Jamee Kell
Lewis Curl, Treasurer,
Benjamin F~~nklin Smith, Jr,, } Steward.II,
Ralph Lewis Stalford, Seoretary,
Timothy Coleman, 2l,iler.
Past Mutera 1

jJ'oJin !ilweene,Y,

Ira Lemuel Delano.

Wirt Robinson Macmnrdo, Alvah Rns'l Oonklln, P.G.M. ·
Stoll, Charles Michael
Arthur Hussey Swain,
Alphonse Weill,
MA.STER MASONS:

Beer, Lucian
Brower, Celsns
Brown, Andrew
Camidge, William John
Condict, Henry Ford
Congdon, Charles Henry
Back, Frederick Bernard
Bale, Robert Selden
Barding, Thomas Edward
B,inaman , Simon .
Btrschfeld, Berman

Neill, Robert
Hnltqnist, Ernest Peter
Pettit, Frank
James, Walter
Sanderso n, John Franklin
Jewett, Philo Dennis
Schmeidte, Cle.es Axel
Jewett, Solomon
Stern, Lonie
Jndd, Stiles Morris
Stockton, Ohrist'r Columbus
Laird, Frederick Jewell
Taylor, Obas. John Edward
Mack, Joles J
Tyler, William
Medina, John Blancarte
McDongall, Benjamin Geer Van Vleck, John Dorsey
Weeks, George Franklin
MoKelvey, Lewis
~l.
Neill, John

462

Returns of the Subordinate Lodge.s

[Aug. 1,

FELLOW CRAFT:

Pogson, Robt. Miller Robinson, Frank Wilkins Roell, Oorn. Fred'k Alexande
r--3.
ENTERED APPRENTI CES :

Mam, Lafayette L.
Nelson, Martin

Richards, Alfred

Sarrazin, Jean-j,

WITHDRA.WN :

Devins, Charles Alonzo-I .
DIED:

Ardizzi, Beneditto
Engle, David (L A.)

Honghton, William Enclid (F. c)

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifomw.

1895.]

463

Swift, Charles Ingham
Swift, Samuel Crosby
Tubbs, Herman Allen
Vanderoock, Edw' d Pickett
Vincent, James Ellsworth
Von Adelnng, Edward
Wentwort h, Charles Oscar
Wilcox, Wilbur Jairns-89 .

Pfenninger, Hermann
Mason, William Cowan
Rice, Calvin Bacon
Maynard, James Lewis
Melvin, Henry Alexander Rogg, Joseph Percival
Melvin, Samuel Houston Ratledge, William
Melvin, William Patterson Sabin, John Murray, Jr.
Sewell, Newton
Miller, James
Mould, Richard Inkerman Smith, Byron Grover
Smith, Olayton Kerper
Newsom, John J
Stewart, Michael Young
Petty, John Arthur
ENTERED APPRENTI CES:

Narboe, John_j,

Garthorne , George He11ry

Bailey, William Thom1111
Dona\~son, Wm. Aull:Ustus

Lufkin, Thomas H-4..

WITHDBA WN :

Davis, George Emory-2.

Babcock, George Washington

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES,:

Newsom, Se.mnel-2 .

Dolan, Jostiph Cornelius

DIED:

Norris, Francis Marion-I .

BROOK LYN LODGE . No. 225.
Eaat Oakland , Alameda County.

Stated Meetings, first 'l'uestiay in each mooth.

HAYW ARD LODGE , No. 226.

OFFlflER St

- - - - , Master,
John Alexander Oampbell ,Senw Diaoon,
Samnel Swift, Senior Warden,
Henry Franklin Goff, Junior Deacon,
Tbos. Baldwin Ripley Crandell, J. Ward., George Gordon Onmming, Mar1hal,
Geor11:e Henry Troe, 1\-eaaurer,
Walter Joseph Petersen, l 8/,11
d8
Obarles Drinkwater Hayes, Seuretary,
Charles Horn Smith,
f ?Dar '
William Oongdon Potter, Ohaplain,
William David Thomas, Tyler.
Paat Maatera 1

Jonathan Vinson Webster, Theodore Henry Hatch,
Ambrose Merritt,
John Waterman Ph1lllps, William Thomas Gibbs,
William Robert Evans,
Le.vis Risdon Mead,
Howell Pratt Capell,
George Roscoe Willl~ms,
Charles Drinkwater Hayes, Archibald Alexan'r Dewing, Samnel Greely Hilborn.
Arthnr Edward Magill,
John Walter Evana,
·
MASTER MA.SONS :

Anderaon, Aiex. Watson
De La Rue, Edwin
Halsey, Henry Luther
Baker, Henry Mathews
Dinglay, Charles Llewellyn Harbinson ,Geo. Washingt'n .
Bangle, Edward
Dingley, Walter Frederick Henshaw, Frederick Wm.
Black, Samuel Thorburn Donn, Daniel 0
Henshaw, William Griffith
Bontan, Leonard
Everett, Frank Inches
Bunt, J oeeph
Ohilds, Angustus Frederic Falley, Philomen Henry
Jackson, Dl\vld Howell
Cobbledlck, James
Fletcher, Leroy Dermott Keller, David Conrad
Conklin, Frank Granger
Frederickson, William
Kelley, John Joseph
Cool, Russell Hopkins
Fuller, Amos Leigh ton
Krause, Frederick Low
Copeland, Alexander
Furgason, Charles Horace Lieae, Arthur Henry
Oorbett, Joseph Bailey
Goft, Lucias Marion
Lucaa, Emanuel
Cowell, Charles Herbert Gray, Robert Wallace
Machin, Timothy Nostran
Davis, Frederick William Grimes, Everett Mason
Mason, George Henry

HaH Moon Ba:y, San Mateo C:ount:y.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next prew:ling Full Moon.
OFFIC:ER S1

Louis Bloamtree Bernard, M<Uter,
Fernand Levy, Senior Warden,
George Duncan, Junior Warden,
Rnfus Harvey Hatob, 1TeaNrer,
Fred Burnett Fillmore, Secretary,
- - - , Ohaplain,

James Hatch, Senior Deacon,
Robert Israel Knapp, Junior .DllaDOft,
Armand Levy, Marahal,
Thomas Johnston,
j Stetoarda,
Charles Wightman B<lrdl!n, 1
Robert Allen Rawls, Tyler.
Past lllaaten 1

Henry Elford Lee,
Josiah Parker Ames,

Louie Bloumtree Bernard,
Horatio Manser Templeton.

Joseph B Freitas,
George Dnncan,
MASTER MA.SONS:

Lourenco, J aointo
Mo\zen, Augnst Henry Paul
Roe, Timothy Elwood
Thompson, Hiram Walker
Walker Charles Cornwell
Willie.ms, George-34 ..

Bernardo, Cerrero Esteben Ratch, .John Henry
Borden, George Riley
Heyman, Julee Jonas
Bonzanni, Antonio
Lautenschlager, Conrad
Davide, Charles Reury
Latrranchi, Antonio
Emerson Mark
Larson, John
Gordon, Alexa~der
Levy, Joseph
Hartley, Griffith Price
1

ENTERED APPRENTI CE :

Maynard, Almarlen B-I.
RESTORE D:

Rawls, Robert Allen-2.

Gordon, Alexander
DIED:

Re.thye, Buaing-1 .

464

Returns of the SuhordinaJe L<Jdge,s

[Aug. 1,

1.o the Grand Lodge of OaJA.fomW..

1895.]

465

lllA.BTER lllASONB: •

CONTR A COSTA LODGE , No. 227.
Somersvil le, Contra Coat& Coo.nt;v,

Stated Meeting•, Puuday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
Oll'FICERS 1

John Henry Trythall, MasU!r,
Edward McLeod, Senior DeQ,(J()n,
George Holladay, Senior Wardell,
John Thomae Oox, Junior Deacon,
David Daniel Harris, Tunior Warden,
Robert Maphfit Clare, Marahal,
Jamee Rankin, '.h-eaaurer,
·
Watkin P. Morgans,
t 81,etJJ els
Samuel Brown, &cretary,
Thomae .Morgan Willlams, f
iir '
Benjamin Jones, :IYler.
John Franklin Deemer,
Jamee Baukin,
Samuel Brown,

Paat Ma•ten1
Robert Maphfit Olare,
Edward McLeod,
.John Thomas Oox,

Brady, Thomas
Gude, Richard
Moon, Jam~e Luman
Chamberlain Vincent Judah Hillman, Arthur Oonstant'e Page, _David Cooper
Oraig, Frede~ick
J ohneon, Henry Foster
Snider, Eli
Dresbach, William
Ludington, Gilbert Lewie Stamp, George
George, Jacob Smith
Maddox, Charles Wesley
Taylor, J~hn
Gordon, Melvin Barnes
Mastin, Walt.er
Walsh, Michael-38 ,
Goold, Eugene Henry
ENTERED APPRENTIC E :

Morgan, John Lewia.-1.

George Holladay,
John Langman,
John Henry Trythall.

SOLAN O LODGE, No. 229".
Vallejo, Solano!Co o.nt;v.

MASTER MASONS:

Abrams, Lewie Roeser
Aitken, Jamee
Colline, John Samuel
Evans, Robert
Jones, David Paul

Jones, William Robert
Mason, Johu
Richmond, George
Riddock, Alexander

Stated MeetinllB• firat Munday in each month.
Simmons, Harry
Spowart, David
Spratt, Thomae
Williams, John Henry-116.

DIED:

Mortimore, Richard-I.

OFFICER 81

John Wilton Wiuton, MlJlller,
John Henry Bailor, S6!'ior DeQ,OQ'f&,
Johnston Hillard Cooper, Senior Warden, Alonzo Sherman Halhday, Jun. Deacon,
Neil Charlson Damstedt, Junior Warden, Amoe Edwin Barbonr, Mar11haZ,
Alex. Bertsch Bertoscky, '[reattUrer,
George Gregory Harris, ~ Steuuil'l:IB,
Alden Leonard Hatheway, Secretary,
Fordham Clay Bassford,
Adam Armstrong MoAiister, Ohiiplain, Calvin Lamphere Hyde, Tyllr.
Past Maaters:

ATHEN S LODGE , No. 228.
Da'rirrl.Ue , Yolo Coo.nt;v.

Stated Meeting•, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full . Moon.
OFFICER S•

Elijah William Brown, .MtUter,
Henry Jaoob Hamel, Senior Warden,
Patrick Hugh Brady, Junior Warden,
George Frederick Hamel, 7reasurer,
Frederick Warner Wilson, Secretary,
John Wileon Buy, Ohaplain,

William Ogburn Rueaell, Senior Deaotm,
James Luman Moon, Juntor Deacon,
Reuben B Brunson, Marllhtil,
William Lonie Wood,
j
ds
Angnst Frederick Lehrman, l 81111Dtir '
Hiram Henry Smith, :zyler.

P-t lllaaten 1

Mathew Gardner,
Ward Spooner Williams,
Elijah William Brow11,
Henry Hamel,

William Harrison Marden, George Frederick Hamel,
Reuben B Brqoao,n,
Jamee Henry Brady,
Frank Benjamin Wire,
Wfolter Ernest Ba\ei!.

Frank Edward Brown,
George Thompson,
John Farnham,
James Roney,
Alex. Bertsch Bertoscky,

'}(I'

Lonie Garibaldi Harrier,
He~ry Daniel LazeUe,
Alde.n Leonard Ratbeway, John Quincy Adams,
Wm. Bremner Stephenson,
Harry Carlton Good,
Joseph Bullock Coghlan, Patrick Haley.
MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, Carl
Itrich, Franz Anton
Redstone, William
Beesing, Joseph
Jones, Thomae William
Beed, Horra William
Black, Frank Jerry
Keating, Richard Joseph Reed, Wm. Thoe. Winston
Brownridge, Geo. Thomas Kemper, Melchoir
Robinson, Thomas Loring
Butler, Ira Mortimer
Laviere, Frank
Shlllingeburg, Elias
Clarke, William Henry
Lemon, Francis Bertrand Smith, John
Dick, Thomae Brown
.McCool, Daniel Miller
Sosa, Aneelin
Dornin, William Henry
Melven, Nathaniel
Street, Aug. Marlsbnrger
Edgcnmbe Joseph Collings Meyer,Wilh'mChris'nLud'gThompeon, John
Eklnndh, Carl Frederick
Nagle, Richard Wellington TuftOrteon, Augnst Fred'k
Ford .John Harris
Nest, Albrecht
Webster, Henry John
Fre; John
Nord, Johan
Wil~iams 1 Rober~ Adri11on
Gee, 'wnliam, Jr.
Patetta, Luigi
Wilson, Henry ·
Harrier, Victor VirKil
Pressey, William Brown
Wood,, George
.
Holiog Jorgen Jacob
Pulsifer, Orrin Fred.
Young, Charles Mortimer

'

~~

40

466

&turns of the Suhordinate Lodgeii

(Aug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornitl.

467

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Bowren, Charles
Farley, Martin Brown

Haag, Eberhard

Woode, Samnel-,,

WITHDRAWN:

Covelo, Mendoolno Connty.

Strong, John Weetlon-1.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday oj or nezt preceding Full Moon.

DIED:

Bntler, Orrin Hartwell

COVELO LODGE, No.~ 281.

Demmon, George Cramer

OFFICERS1

Larsen, Fritz Oastn11-3.

Benson Clarke Bellamy, Master,
Charles Henry Hor.t, 811nfor Warden,
James Beory Riffe, Junior Warden, .
Joseph Nelson Rea, Trea11Urt1r,
Francis Marion Van Dyke, Secretary,
Charles Milton Brown, Ohaplain,

NORTH BUTTE LODGE, No. 230.
Gridley, Batte Coant7,

Stated. M~ings,

Past Maatera1

Benson Clarke Bellamy, .
Felix Parcell,
Geo. Washington Oommios,

Saturday or' or ne:i:t preceding Full M0011.
OFFJCERS1

Jamee Thomas Galbreath, MastM,
Richard Angoetcs Norman, Br. Warden,
James Marshall, Junior Warden,
Georite Diedrich Wickman, Preaaurer,
Marc~ J 1111ea Bigelow, s-11ta.,.Y,
Edwartt ~neat Biggs, Ohaplatn,

Washington Dnnn Barker, Sen. Deacon,
Arthor Richter, Junior D11acon,

- - - - - - , Marshal,

Jamee Madison Hampton, l steuiarda
· '
Oharles Alonzo Moore, f
Sydney Hoghee Morgan, 1Yler.

Frllncis Marion Van Dyke,
Wm. Sommerfield Van Dyke,

Harc111 Jamee Bigelow,

MASl'EB MA.HONS :

FELLOW OBAFT :

Bootbard, Harry-1.

Ed ward Ernest Biggs,

Homer ·Allen Woodworth.

lllA!!TEB MASONS :

Barrie, Joseph Thompson
~look, Oharlee Henry
BenniogPr,.James
aoUlli• Rafus Jelfe·rson
Hutchins, John Sollivan
llon~lett, Arnold
Jones, Benjamin Oottle
ltrowo, Lorenzo King
King, Charles Lee
Bock, John Hiram
Obannon, Thomae Bending Miller, Arthor Gardner
Mould, Willlam
Orueick, Fred
Myers, Jamee
Dart, William
Dodgson,BenjamioFranklio Porter, Jackson O
Ried, Hosea Edwin
Fagan, Edward
Fleming, Thomae Robert RoblDBon, Robert Ernest

Rull, Samuel Francis
Shelley, Luther Madison
Sheridan, David
Simpson, William
Smith, Almon
Sperry, Willard Felton
Stafford, William Heorv
Stone, Lewis Charles •
Taylor, Reese Bowen
Yoong, John Cottrell-'5.

Lewis, James K. Polk-'.!.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT 01!' DUES:

Updegralf, Jaoob-1.
DIED :

McCoy, Oharle11-2.

Bentley, Albert Myron

FELLOW OBAFT :

JANESVIL LE LODGE, No. 232.

Blackford, Samuel Shannoo-1.

.Jane•vtlle, La.seen County.

Buckley, Charles

Evans, John Amory-3.

Stalford, Thomae Henry
Bayles, David
Bogeboom, Neleoa Wallace

Van FoBSep, Thomas Ezra

DIED:

Morgan, Emanuel Brigg11-2.

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS 1

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES ;

Hollida.J, ~<)Uer

WITHDRAWN:

Bandy, Fred Ola~ke

ENTERED APPBENTIOES :

Bloom11eld, Charles

Whitcombe Henley,
Henry Sololi Lovell.

Eldred, Horace Alexander Hammell, William Bradford Marks, Henry
Mathews, Hiram Walker
Haltdy, Philo
Foster. Jesse Gilbert
McOombs, Albert Emmett
Hornbrook, Sanders
Gray, Andrew
Marders, Ambrose Robert Randrop, William-27.
Hall, Henry Miller

Past llfa•tera:

AarGll P•gh,

George Washington Cummins, 8. Dea.c.,
John Wesley Grist, .Junior. .Deaoon,
Francis Marlon ·Thomson, Marshal,
l steuiarda,
Jacob Whattenberger,
Alexander Colier Perry, f
Felix Purcell, Tyl.er.

-4..

James Alexander Wood, Senior Deacon,
William Hezekiah Sifford , Mall.er,
Harry Foltoo Mnrpby, Senior Warden, John Edwin J ellison, Junior Deacon,
Jeremiah Bond, Marshal,
Stephen Shore BaBS, Junior Warden,
Joseph Warren Decione, l stetoarda,
Hiram Winchell, Treaturer,
Charles Bates Clarke, f
Flavioe J Winchell, 8eor11tary.
Isaac WrigbtlSmith, Ty'ler.

468

&turns of the Subordinate Lodges

LAug. 1,

1895.J

1b the Grand Lodge of California.
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Paet Ma.tens

Hiram Winchell,
Fle.vius J Winchell,

469

Jeremie.I! Lee.key,

Jeremiah Bond.

Ambrose, William

McPherson, J oho Miller

Snllivan, J all\e& J oseph-3.

WITHDRAWN:

MASTER MASONS:

Otto, Anthony
Pullen, Granville
ROberts, Obarlie Byron
Sharp, Jamee Porter
Steinberger, Jamee Milton
Theodore, John-32.

Alexander, Abraham
Doyle, Otis Marke
Bailey, Ire. Eugene
Doyle, Stephen Abbott
Be.es, John Edward
Foley, Robert Emmett
Be.BB, Richard Dudley
J ohneon, J oho
Carter, Oscar Lafayette
Mentor, William Henry
Clark, William Henry
McDermott, Jamee
DowniDg, Samuel Uberto ·McKiseick, Jacob

Brandt, Gerhardus Johan Gilles

Harley, William Nelson-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Johnson, Richard Purchase Stone, Harry
White, David Edward
Smith, William Dowe
Taylor, Freder'k Augnetne Wright, Frank Talhpt.-6.
DIED:

We.Iker, John-2.

Spiers, Willie.m Joshua

FELLOW ORAFT:

Rowland, Edgar Fre.nk-1.

HOPE LODGE, No. 234.
Beckwith, Pluma• County.

CALISTOGA LODGE, No. 233.

Stated Meeting1, Saturday of or next BUCceeding Full Moon.

Callatoira, Napa County.
OFFICERS•

Stated Meeting1, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Frank Walton Mitchell; Ma/Iler,
Charles Wily Oronch, Senior Deacon,
Engene Franklin Pratt, Senior Warden, Jamee Bunter Balley, Junior lleaoon,
Charles Alexis Stevens, Junior Warden, Charles Nathan Picke.tt, ltl.araha1,
Newton Conner, 7reamrer,
Oscar Martin, ·
j Steward8
Ferdinand Frank, Secrelat'11,
George Thomae Hicklin, l
'
Francie Aeahel Crouch, Ohaplain,
Emanuel Hoover Oe.ble, 7)/ler•
Paat Maatera 1

Franklin Ashton,
William Hn'gb Easley,
Adrian Sickles Philip,

Robert Hare Del11fleld,
William Thomas Siinmone,

FELLOW ORA.FT :

Liusoott, Oscar Henry- I.

Past Mastera•

John Loge.a Crow,
William Eugene McNeil,

Potue.m MCe.te,

Robert Alexe.uder Heriot.

MASTER MASONS :

Frank Walton Mitchell,
Ferdinand Frank.

MASTER MASONS :

Ade.ms, Ire. Winchell
Ford, Herbert Rossell
Burgess, Charles Melzar
Foss, Obe.rles Clark
Oolline, Nelson Walton
Fulcher, Marcus Julius
Cordes, Tobias John
Garratt, William Thomae
Decker, Porter Alfred
Gerber', John Francie
Dnering,Oe.rl H. Fred'k Von GraOBB, Felix Le.wren
Easley, Roderick Hugh
Higgins, Andrew Jackson
Evey, David Douglas
Hoover, Abram
Fee, Leonidas Wilson
Hoover, John
Fisher, William Frederick Monroe, William

Robert Alexa.oder Heriot, Master,
Pntne.m M Oe.te, Sen. Deacon,
Thomae Lewie Jones, Senior Warden, Geo. Washington Cate, Junior Deacon,
Willie.m Mitchell Smith, Junior waraen, Jo.mes Willfe.m Webster, Mar1hal,
Willie.m Eugene McNeil, 7reasurer,
Sylvester Augustus Thomas, } Stewarda,
Fre.nk Campbell, Seorelary,
Joseph Robert Ensco~,
.
Allen Trimble, Ohaplain,
Willie.m Cromwell Brmghe.m, 1yler.

Newbaner, Sigmund W.
Safley, Robert Hunter
Simmons, Amoe
Spiers, William
Thomas, George Henry
Willle, David Connor
Wilson, Benjamin Franklln
Wright, ol"osepb 0
Wrigbt,Joeeph Willie.m-4.6.

.Arms, Willie.m
Forsyth, John
Nevill, John
Berge.rett, Joseph Aabin Gibson, Willie.m Goorge
Peok, Fre.nk Ferdine.nd
Brlnghe.m, Me.Tion Ce.stor Il:atbe.we.y,Joseph Bushnell Peterson, Amel Le.nee
Christie, Lorenzo Manson Heriot, De.vid
Peterson, John Henry
Crow, Se.mue\ JI .
Half, Jo.mes Carroll
Peterson, Osce.r Willie.m
Davie, Charles Arthur
Jl[e.rtln, Riebe.rd
Roberson, Che.rlee Leander
De.vie, Be.muel
Me.xwell, Geo!:'ge .A.\bion Scott, Thomae
Dedmon, Allen
McElroy, Owen
Torry, Adelbert Earl
Dedmun, Jobo We.shington Miller, Jo.mes John Orinbe.h Totten, John Grahe.m-4.1.
Dedmon, Henry Pool
WITHDRAWN :

Done.Id, McFe.rlane-1.

470

Returns of the Subordhw.te Lodges

[Aug. '1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lo.dge of Oalij<Ymia.

471

MASTER MASONS 1

SURPRISE VALLEY LODGE, No. 235.
Cedarville, Modoc County,

Stated Mutinga, Safu.rday of or nezt preceding F'u.ll Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Mollins, Master,
William Harvey McCormick, Sen.Deaaon,
Charles Bittner Roth, Sen. wdrden,
John Ellison Bly, Junior Deacon,
John Beath Bonner, Junior Warden,
George Olark Torner, Marshal.,
William TCreeeler, Trea11urer,
Ransom Heenan t:!tanley, l Stewarda,
Thomae Henry Johnstone, Secretary,
Frank McClintock;
f
Henry Lyman Merryfleld, Tyler.
Paat Maatera 1

John Heath Bonner,
Ward Spooner Stevens,
William Henry Patterson,

William Harvey McCormick,
Thomas Henry Johnstone,

Ba.mbaoer, Oharlee Louie Gorham, John Jamee
Bartch, Frederick
Boot, Martin Lother
Bonker, Nathaniel Emmons Kilborn, Goy
Crow, Edward Wayman
Kuhne, Elmer
'
Loughead, George
Dalby, Samnel Price
Draper, Wilber Fisk
Marlin, Abraham Lincoln
Donning, Willie Albion
McDonald, Mark Elmer
Mills, Gilbert Ellis
Edgecomb, Frederick
Ela, Robert Lane
Mills, Henry Hammer
Morrie, Julius
Elfers, Obarlee Diedrick
Ford, Albert Joselyn

Pfltzer, Frank
Rally, Francie William
Rhea, John Jamee
Schmidt, Hane Jorgensen
Stratton, John Augns~os
Totman, William Newell
Tooker, Bomer Oeleis
Wangenbeim, Joline
Wilson, Richard Moody
Yates, John Davie -46.

AFFILIATED:

WITHDRAWN:

Murry, Bernard Tola.nd-1.

Murry, Bernard Toland"'--1.

James Wylie,
William Mollins.

MASTER MASONS :

Berry, Doctor Champlin
Jones, Joseph Lewie
Richardson, Elijah Allen
Himes, William Francis
Latbam,Melancthon Seym'r Sawtelle, Fred'k Adolphus
Hornback, James Mcintire Linderman, John Burnam Scammon, Mettiah Lancae'r
Minto, Robert Wield
Woodruff, Everett Edison
Hughes, Leander W
Honner, John
Morrow, John William
-28.

GUADALUPE LODGE, No. 237.
Gaadalupe, Santa Barbara County• .

. FELLOW CRAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Angle, William-1.

Ehrhardt, George Edward-I.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

RESTORED:

OFFICERS1

Minto, Robert Wield-1.

Willialil Thomae Looae, Master,
Nathaniel MoGoire, Senior Deacon,
Mario Antonio Barca, Senior Warden,
Giuliano Clemente Bonetti, Jun. Deacon,
J obn Gioiomazzi, Junior Warden,
David Lewty, Marshal,
Battista Pezzoni, Treasurer,
John Battista Bonetti, ~
Stewara11,
Stephen Campodonico, Secretary,
Elvizio Righetti,
Emilio Bontadelli, Tyler.
Past Master:

HILL'S FERRY LODGE, No. 236.

William Thomae Locae.

Newman, Stanl&lau• County.
MASTER MASONS :

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon .
OFFICERM1

Alexander Munroe Williams, Master,
Charles Edgar Trefts, SeniOr Deac.on,
Jasper Nicolaisen Stohr, Senior Warden, Jules Caln, Junfor Deaoon,
Charles William Schank, Junior Warden, Elisha Henry Robison, Marsha~
Nilse Andrew Thompson, Treasurer,
Andrew Jack 'n Worthington t St
Jamee McElroy Lathrop, Secretary,
John Russell,
'f 8'1.Dai'ds,
Thomas Grayson Yancy, Tyler.
·Past Mastera:

Charles Parsons Barris,
Albert Lansing Yates,

Henry Klehn,
George Henry Crow,

JameR McElroy Lathrop.

Birra, Gaieeppe
Bonetti, Albert
Gormely, Thomas
Ka11er, Lazaroe Meyer

Laughlin, Henry Jamee
Norris, John R.
Righetti, Robertino

Tognlni, Giuliano
Wasgatt, Corn~llne
Zanetti, Severln<>-21.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Woolley, Albert Vale-1.

472

Returns of the Swordinaie Lodges

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,if(J'f'fl.w.

1895.]

SANTA ANA LODGE, No. 241.

COLUSA LODGE, No. 240.
Coluaa, Col1111& County.

Santa Ana, Oranee County.

Stated Mutings, Friday of or nQ:t preceding Full Moon.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or nut pre~ding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Joseph Bailey Oooke, 11.a.ter,
Oscar Robinson, Senior DellCQfl,
Josiah Laaderdale Seawell, Sen. Warden, Jacob Henry Miller, Jun(or .Dell<Km,
Geo. Edw. DeSt. Maorice, Jun. Warden, Claade Edwin de St. Maarice, .Marth.al,
Robert Cosner, 7reasur11r,
Charles Rlohardeon, t SU1111 di!
William Thomas Beville, 86'1f"Btary,
Emil Jacobson,
I
ar '
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,
Harrison Alexander Roe, Tyler.
Put lllaatera 1

William Frank Goad,
John Henry Llening,

Joseph Balley Cooke,
Edward Winslow Jones,

473

J oeeph Byron Stanton,
Rotheoae Aagaetns Gray.

OFFICERS:

John Phillip Greeley, Senior Deacon,
Roscoe Edwin Hewitt, Malter,
Max Jacobson, Junior Deacon, · .
David Traax Brock, Sen. Warl.len,
Nathaniel Mills Perry Olose, J. Warden, Henry Thomas Mathews, Marsh.al,
Martin Lather Lane, Treasurer,
Henry Diers,
l Stewards
James Thompson Smith, f
'
David Fowler Jones, SeorBlary,
Eraetns Clinton Jones, Tyler.
Lncias Norman Emerson, Oh.aplain,
Paat llfaatera:

Milton John Bondy,
Marion Albert Menges,
Carlos Frederick Mansar, Elisha Gallop,
Charles Sumner McKelvey, Ezekiel, Bernard Smith

John Lewis Dryer,
Andrew Snyder,
George Ackerman Whidden.

MASTER MASONS :
MASTEB MASONS :

Barnett, Robert Aogaatos Herd, William Nichols
Peterson, Peter
Baster, William Harrison Habbard, William Henry Ponndstone, Jessie
Oheney, John
Haber, John
Robison, Samael Alexander
Cilley, John Wells
Jackson, John Lowry
Rammelebarg, Selig
Clark, Jacob Brown •
K888, John
Swinford, Edwin
De Jarnett, John Borris
Logan, Hagh A
Terrill, John Roach
Eagle, Thomae Benton
McLean, Francie George Thayer, Albert Austin
Gibbons, Clilford Holcomb McNary, Jamee David
Totten, Marco Bozzaris
Glll88cock,BenjamlnBrooke Mead, Alfred
Tuson, Henry
Goad, Jamee Wilkins
Miller, Charles Herman
West, Joseph· Simeon
Grover, Johnson
llitobe11, Bnrr Hadson
Wilson, Cyr~s Pogne
Harrington, Tennent
Mogk, John Charles
Winkler, James Jackson
Hart, Jamee
Paine, Sumner Frederick
-54.
ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Blodgett, Hiram Daniel

Cook, Frank W!lllam-2.
RESTORED:

Oray, Rotheooe Angoetua

Boster, William Harrieon-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Harris, Elisha Avery-I.
DIED:

.Mitchell, Lewis Edwin

llnrkey, Baro-2.

Ashleigh, Frank Donette Gildmacber, I.evl
Newman, Samuel Jacob
Ba.lcolm,Bayles ~reenwood Halbert, Benjamin Franklin Nourse , John Thomas
Boyd, James Patton
Halse!, Hiram Shelby
Parks, Joseph
Brown, Asher Park
Haywood, John Saxon
Peabody, Henry Adams
Brown, Charles Goodwin Hardlug, Foster William
Price, John David
Baller, TbomllB Spafford Harmon, Henry Harrison Reinbans, Me.x
Batz, Adolph
Hill, John Wright
Riveria, Fran90is
Obilton, Robert Franoie
Hill, Samoel
Robinson, Harvey Judson
Ohisman, James Monroe
Hampbreys, Charles Wm. Ross, Jacob
Chrisman, Ernest Lynn
Insley, George Tbomas
Shale, Sa.muel_Clarence
Clifford, John Vincent
Johnson, William Ira
Shrode, David King
Oone, Tbom 2 s Edward
Jones, Francis Asbary
Smith, Samuel Franklin
Cook, Thomas Jefferson
Kelley, John
Stanton, George Monson
Cotter, Jamee 8
Kimball, John Wesley Troe '.l'illotson, Eli2ur
Orooksbank, Mile Mclnnes Klug, James William
Towner, James William
Commings, James
Lamson, William Bradford Tarner, James Andrew
Davidson, Collon James
Leck, Henry
Vegely, Frank
Dorman, Dndley Marvin
Latz, William Henry
Wade,Renben Alex'r Slaven
Eccles, Robert
Magoon, Phemmer
Wall, William Bnrgess
Edinger, Christ'r Oolombue Matthews, Mitchel
Warner, George BradfQrd
Emerson, Lewis Sleeper
Mcintire, Edgar 0
Wilcox, Charles Wheaton
Farman, Fernando Roswell Mead, Charles Abie!
Wilhite, William Lane
Ferguson, Walter Perry
Medlock, James Randolph Wright, Alcinus Yoong
Fife, Charles Cordelia
Mendelson, Marke
Yost, Obarles
Fosdick, Henry Osro
Mills, Ira D
Yoong, Jacob Clark-97.
French, Charles Edwin
FELLOW ORAFTS:

Baker, Robert Miller Bessonett, George Painter Onmmlng, George Ebenezer-3.
ENTERED Al'PRENTIOES ;

Harris, Rl~bard Thomae

41

Richardson, Erwin Elsworth Tracy, Theron Henry-3.

474

Returna of the Subordinate Lodge,s

[Aug. 11

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of OalJi,j(Yf'T&ia.

475

RESTORE D:

Kelley, Obarles Leonard

Shrode, David Kiog-2.
WITHDRA.WN :

Cook, Edwin Deaooo
Gilson, William Rossell

Bogle, George Frederick Kelley, Oharles Leooard -4..

EUCA LYPT US LODG E, No. 243.
Ba)'war d1, Alamed 8 Coun•J'•

StatM. Meetings, Saturda y of or nezt preceding Ftill Moon.
llFFICE RS1

MAGN OLIA LODG E, No. 242.
Santa Barbara , Santa Barbar a Coant)'.

StatM. Meetings, Friday of or ~t preceding Full Moon.

Thomas Bartlett Rossell, Master~ d
William Edward Rowlan,ds, ~·...
John Chisholm Crooks,· unwr ,.,
•
Charles Prowse, treasure r,
Heon· Ernst Branner, Secretary .
George Washington Lyons, Chaplain ,

:;dee:,

OFFICE RS a

Benjamin Franklin Thomas, ¥aster,
William Preston Butcher, Ben. Deacon,
Walter Borton Oope, 8BnwrW ard8n,
Joseph Riley Granger, Junior Deacon,
Walter Aogaetas ·Hawley, Jun. W!ll'den, Isak 0 l'edersoo , Marth.al,
J oho Delos Peer, :1\oeaaurer,
Moses Hanner,
l stet0ard.a,
Lance Riohardsoo, Jr. Bearetary,
Methodeos Wesley Richards, f
.
Jobu Thompson Joholltoo, Ohapla(n,
Daniel Moyer (of Santa Ba.1·bara, No. 192), TTiler.
Paat Maaters 1

Benjamin Franklin Thomas,
John Delos Peer,
Frank Adelbert Conant,

John Wesley Beck,
Ablsha Swain,
William Preston Botcher,

William Scott Day,
James Henry Austin.

MASTER MA.SONS:

Andrews, James Henry
Baaslnger, James Oharlcs Seely, Samuel Satterlee
Axtell, Joseph Daniel
Hawley, Theodor~ Stone Shotwell, Marcus Arata
Beckwith , George Eli
Hayman, Albert
.Smith, James Wilson (No.1)
Bond, Charles Scott
Hicks. Thomas Henry
Smitb,Ja mea Wilson (No. 2)
Burson, Edward
Hollister Baroid Albert
Smith, Rufus Dana
Olark, Thomas
Hunter, Jobo Milton
Spring, William Fenton
Clark, Wilson Lincoln
Koepper , George Edward St.eele, Walter Dana
Ooffey, Wilson Rife
Linqueat, August Ludvik Trudway , Olintoo William
Cnooaoe, William Bernard Manning, William A.bis!
Water•, William Gardner
Damm, Andre~
lllorris, William Beacham Weile, Oharles
Everett, Fred Ro be rt
Northrop , Henry Wbltnt>y Williams, Geo. Martin
Frost; Samuel
Owen, Benjamin Franklin Wilson, Jerome Calvin
Garcia, Manuel Francisco Owen, William Rensalear Zimmerman,
William- 67.
Gourley, EHakim Tupper Robbins, Martin Van Buren
ENTERED APPRENT ICE :

RESTORE D:

Bonardi, Peter-I.

Smith, James Wilson (No. 1)-1.
WITHDRAW.N:

'stoddard , Zadoc Soutbwi ck-1.
DIED:

Broaghton, Robert John

Dow, James-2 .

Henry Aogost Shafer, Senior Deaoon,
Edward Henry Olawiter, Junior Deacon,
William Franklin Blanchet , Marshal,
B df
}
Alonzo ra ord •
Stewarda ,
William Franklin Darling,
D bl Tyler
Carl Oscar a e,
.

Past lllasters •

James Davis Austin,
Lewis Henry Brown,
Geor11:e William Frick,

Horry Wert Meek,
Charles Stuart Long,

Thomas Bartlett Rossell,
Leslie Alexande r Jordan•

MA.t:ITER MASONS:

Alexande r, Geo. Edll)und Jobn•on, Peter
Behrmann. Lud'g Geo. Jae. Jones, A~gernon Sidney.
Crooks, John Edwin
Knox, Mi.lo.
Dennis, Frank
Knox, Wilham
Everett, Calvin Damon
Lane, Jaoo):> Cooper
Fedderso n, Henry Martin Lee' Charles 8:enry
Gamble John
Loni[, Percy Vmcent
Glass, Clement Role.nd
Meek, William Ell~worth
Grindell, George Edward Mohr, Henry Pan
.
Hale John Edward
Peterman , Henry Lewi•
Hetherin gton, John
Rice, Sarvey Dance.o

Rice, Harvey Wood
Seqneria , John J:oAepb
Simpson, Michael Lewis
Smalley, David 8
Smith, Christian Banseo
Thompson, Hans
Wbybark, Geo. Washington
Winton, Crayton
Wolff, William
Wooten, John Edward- 60.

AFFILIAT ED:

:Mohr, John Cornello s-1.
WITHDRA WN:

Whidden, George .A.kermso-2.

Bloomer, Adam Charles

SUSPEND ED FOR NON-PA.YMENT 01' DUES:

Carr, John

Harder, Peter

Pimentel , Josepb-8 .

DIED:

Mohr, John Cornelio s-1.

476

Returm of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. I,

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of Oalif<YrnW..
RESTORE D;

Hill, James Terrill

ALCAT RAZ LODGE , .No. 244.

Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
Henderson, Thomas N~lson

West O&J,;land , Alameda Coanty.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

477

Wood, George B-2.

WITHDRAWN:

Wood, George B-5.

McDonald, Nathaniel .
Smith, William Owen

SUSPENDE D FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Andresen, Hera.Id Sopbus

OFFICJ!:R S1

William Wa.terrna.n Neal, Master,
William Frederick Heckel, Sen. Deacon,
August Adolph Wrede, Sen. Warden,
Frank Frederick Jackson, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Berna.rd Schindler, Jun. Warden, Henry Trombley, Marshal,
Daniel Robertson, 7Teaaurer,
Frank Jobneon Donglas, t Btewar!U,
Robert Grant Gra.ba.m, Seqrtltary,
John Thomas Moore,
William Riley Story, 7}/ler.

Hollywoo d, Joseph

Gibson, Alexander .

Rowland, Edward Robert-4. .

DIED;

Quinn, Ja.mes-2.

Anthony, Albert Ga.Ila.tin

r

Paet Maaten 1

Chas. Henry Redington,
Cha.rl41eWesley Gilbert,
Albert Atwater McKeen,

George Hadsell,
Eugene Augustus Trefethen,
John Christop'r Gohrma.n, Her~ert Atherton Glines.
Eugene S Perkins,

LAURE L LODGE , No. 245.
Willows, Glenn Connt.y.

MASTER MASONS :

Aldrich, Hngh Shafter
Graham, Edward Joseph Morphy, Engene Joseph
Baker, Alvin Wa.ltar
Greenwald. Frank Jnlins Naismith, Gavin
Barnett, Rnfns Pntna.m
Harrigan, John William
Nicol, William Scott
Ba.rney,John Nelson
Berman, Andrew
Partridge, Abram Peter
Bassett, James Madison
Rill, _James Terrill
Pett, David
Bice, John ·
Hunter, Wm. Alexa.oder
Pierson, Willard Hubble
Bishop, John Nelson
Iaa.a.c, John Dove
Prothero, Samuel Welsh
Bla.nc)la.rd, James Milton Isa.a.cs, Alfred Solomon
Roseberry , James
Braun, Micha.el
Johnstone , John Crawford Sartori, Angostus Paulo
Buchanan, Alexa.oder
Johnstone , Rob't Crawford' Searles, Nile•, Jr,
Buzzo, Benjamin' Heywood Kelly, Martin Micha.el
Sherburne , Chas. Ferdinand
Carson, John Lovell
Keyer, John
Slavin, John Thompson
Chase, Quincy Aca.stns
Kolp, Willia.rn
Snook, Cba.rlt's Edward
Olimo, Sa.mnel
Krytser, Charles John
Snook, William Sayer
Cotton, George Dongla.s
Kydd, Jsa.11c Ferguson
Stre.cha.ner, Charles
Crawford, Frank Reed
Lange, Frederick William Sntton, William
Cullen, John
Langford, Thomas
Ta.it, Allen James
Onmming, William George Lowell, Frank
Torra.nee, George Henry
Da.llernp, Benjamin
Marr, Archibald C.:a.mpbell Vining, Albert Reed
Da.llernp, John
Ma.rse!is," Robert Lyle
Walters; Valentine
Davie, Thompson
McComb, Edward
Watrous, Ernest Stanley
Deaner, Hiram Franklin
McGuire. Jesse Milton
Whitehead , Thomas
Decka.rd,Stephen Anderson Mc Keen, John Henry
Willa.rd, Charles Martin
Dierdorfl, William Perry
Medros, Joseph Jason
Wilson, James B
Fa.y, Me.x Henry
Monnet, Louis
Woods, William Micha.el
Finely, Che.s. John Jasper Moore, Robert H
Wooley, Elipha.t Sort
Fra.nk.lin,JobHenry Richard Morey, Ctia.rles Erastus
Wylie, Robert Peda.n-10 0.
FELLOW CRAFT ;

Ea.mes, George Wa.shlngton--1.
ENTERED APPRENTI CES:

Blood, Warren Home

Stated Meetings, S4turday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER S•

., s'er
.
William Morton Finch, Stmi.or lJeQ.()()n,
George W 0 rt", .JrLa ' ,
,
J I.or lJ
Nebraska. Ke.nsa.s Spect, Senior Warden, Henry Baker E!hott,
';; h ~aoon,
Robert Aognstus Long, Junior Warden, Logan Po_rter Tooley, ara a
William Reed Merrill, T1·easurer,
Hugh Neilson,
} Steward•,
Cyrns B Wickes, Searetary,
John Henry Zumwalt,
_ _ _ - · Ohaplain,
Abbott Merrill, Tyler.
PRst ~lasters:

Moses Hochheim er,
William Ferrington Mason,
Alex. Hamilton Wille.rd,

J

Jelferson Elmore Pntma.n,
Fred'k Gnsta.vns Crawford,
Abram Andrew Nordyke ,
MASTER MASONS ;

Heeren, Henry Amandns Rasor, Andrew Jackson
Bailey, John Amity
Johnson, Jamee Otis
Rhodes, Eustace Howard
Barber, flenry Dwight
Klemmer, Jacob Philip
Rice, John
Baylor, William Catlette
.
Ma.rshe.11, William We.Iker Sales, William Humphrey
Bumga.rde, George
Maupin,
Paul
Dimet
Sersa.nous , John Fra.~k
Cowart, Za.cha.ria.h Taylor
Snowden, Geo. Wa.~h~ugton
Cnmmnigs, Samuel Henry McMartin, John
Mellor, George
Snowden, J_a.mes W1~h!"m
l)ethless, Marx Cla.uszen
Millington James Bnchana.n Stanton, Hiram Condon
Dudley, George Dickson
Stewart, Francis Davis
Duncan, .Addison Eugene Moyer, sa.:nuel
M 11 J
b
Troxel, Joseph R
Eidenmull er, Wm. Cooper
u er, osep H b t '
We.Iker Henry Walter
Freeman Frank
Nea.te, Sydney er er
•.
L
· N
Ch
Jes
West, Hiram eroy
Freeman ' William Va.lentme
ewma.n, a.r
H
.
Garnett, Peter.Rich e.rd
Patton, John Armstead
Wickes, a.rvey 0 rrm-58 •
Gregson, Charles
Randolph, John Andrew
ENTERED APPRENTI CE ;

Hill, Samnel-2 .

Oyrne B Wickes,
Henry Baker Elliott,
George W Orr.

Pntma.n, Frank L-1.

478

&turilll Of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

'Io the Grari.d Lodge of Oali/<Ymw.

RESTORED:

Bailey, John Amity

FELLOW ORAJ!'.T :

Eldenmnller, William Oooper-2.

Frankel, Samuel-1.

WITHDRAWN:

ENTERED . APPRENTICES:

Hill, James A-1.

Tiooher, James Wllllam-2.

Smith, l':dwin Bowman

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Clark, Pleasanton Henderson
Harrison, Levin Breathitt

479

WITHDRAWN:

Russell, Andrew Maddox Smith, William Angustns

-"·

4de.ms, Francis White

Wright, James William-i.

Hoft'man; Franz

DIED:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Hoskinson, Andrew Emery-1

Lowenstein, Hilliard-I.

POMONA LODGE, No. 246.
Pomona, Loa Angeles County.

Stated Meeting&, first Saturday in each month.

FRESNO LODGE, No. 247.

OFFICERSt

Walter Sherman Winters, Master,
Ulysses Grant Baker Pierce, Ben.Deacon,
James Le.miston Howland, Ben. Warden, Abram Skinner, Junior Deacon,
John Adam Gallup, Jun. Warden,
Joseph Relton Ge.rthside, Marshal,
Oeorge Hee.th, 7Teasurer,
J ohn Leone.rd Ge.llnp,
j St~~P'•
Franols Asbnry Molyneaux, &arel.ary,
Charles Harrison Roberds, l
Amos David Thatcher, Ohaptain,
Henry Clay Anderson, Tyler.
Paac Masters 1

William Thomas Martin,
Charles Delos Ambrose,
Jobn Adam Ge.llnp,
Albert Elisha Clark,

Oe.rleton Seaver,
John Daviddon H. Browne,
John Sommerfield Calkins,
Ed we.rd Henry Hntchinson,

Simon Noney Landon,
Jacob Freyerm11th,
Rossell William Henry.

MASTER MASONS :

Bell, William Alonzo
Brasher, Horace Olyde
Brink, William Irwin
Bryan, Alva Cortis
Bryan, Harvey Harrison
Caldwell, Andrew Bicton
Caldwell, Samuel
Ce.mp, James Bradford
Camp, Orrin' Bridges
Carrier, Elisha Bosworth
Clark, Henry
Cook, John William
Cowles, Lamon Warner
Dorsey, Ke wen Hillie.rd
Driffill, James Alexander
pnddere.r, Franklin Edgar
Dnnn, Joseph Henry
Edward, George
Eels, George Nelson
Eagan, George Campbell

Eagan, James Hughe.rt
Nair, Thomas Jellerson
Ford, Seldon Irving
Overton, James William
Frame, James Neely
Overton,' John Lewis
Gallop, Orrin
Packard, John Elwood,
Given, Brycti Morrow
Reed, Alfred Riley
Hl\nsen, R!IRs Broderson
Rogers, Matthias Gosse~t
Hefte, Rudolf
Rolph, Samuel Johnson
Hibbard , Ethan Allen
Smith, William Daniel
Hicklin, Edward
Soper, William Wallace
Holfmasler,Edg'rJos.Lemp Titus, Stephen Eri
Huice, Victor Ed ward
".rhierman, Thomas Hall
Jess, George
Thomas, Winfield Corwin
Jess, Stoddard
Wasson, Johu
Kellogg, Ubarles Giles
Welch, Everett Haskell
Kerchholf, Hermann Henry Welch, William Ormand
Ki\er, William Harrison
Whitson, Benj'amin Snyder
Loney, James
Whyte, John
Martin, William Claiborne Wilbur, Albert Harper
Mead, Hem·y
Wildman, Wiiliam
Morris, Noah
Young, Aognstus Blair-82.

Fre•no, Fresno County,

Stated Meetinga, Friday oj or ne.xt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Thomas Jetferson Kirk, Senior Deaaoo,
Dnnce.n Donald Allison, Master,
Charles William Barrett, Senior Warden , Albert Franklin Smith, Junior Detl(J011,
Lewis Oliver Stephens, Jun(or Wat·den, q,eorge He.yes Mooroe, Marshal,
l.eopold Gundeltlnger, fi'eaau re.r,
Aaron R. Comfort,
l Btetnards
Thomas Henry Warring$oo, {
,
'
George Olayton Grimes, Secretary,
Lonis Mannel, Tyler.
Henry Phillip Hedges, Ohaplain,
Paat Masters•

Angus Marion Olark,
Berman Levy,
.Joseph Robertson Reily,

Henry Conrad Warner,
John M Pogh,
Edward Sharp Valentine,

.Alexander, Samnel A
Austin, John Reuben
Austin, Robert Harrison
Badger, William Seymore
Baird, Robert .
Barling, Alfred Dare
Benas, Isaac
Bernhard, Emil Frederick
Berry, Fnlton Green
Bomgardner, John Adam
Bowdish, Percival
Bradford, Ward
Brooks, Albert Preston
Bnrness, Hector
Borroughs, George
Bnsh, Edward Everett

Butler, Alban Bernard
Church, George Emery
Oollins, Alfred Scott
Collins, Jam es :Qarwin
Davies , John Foster
Davison, William
Deardortf, Albert G
Decker, Danville
De Long, Charles Warren
Dexter, Fred Barte lie
Dnsy, Frank
Ed wards, Presley N
Elliott, Oharles Cornelius
Elliott, George
Fergason, John William
Galloway, Jollll Dewey

William Samnel Lane,
George Hayes Monroe,
John Andrew Mattingly.

MASTER MASONS :

Garrett, John Marshal
Goldstein, Alexander
Goodman, Solomon B
Griften, Albert
Harsh, James Walton
Heiskell, William King
Hotfman, Allen Fletcher
Hogue, Samuel Lassen
Hollenbeck, James H
Hnghes, Thomas Edwin
Hughes, William Marshall
Jaokson, Andrew
Jackson, Samuel
Johnson, Rasmus Bartholin
Johnson, Samuel Walter
Keating, James Thomas

480

Returm of the Subordinate Lod,ges

[Aug. 1,

Laning, Frank
O'Neal, Charles · ·
Sommerfield, Jacob
Levy, Joseph William
Peachman, Ferdinand
Swartz, Alex. Colberson
Levy, Nyman
Peterson,Nathao'I Houston Taylor, James
Lynch, William
Phillips, William Walter Trobridge, David Strong
Lynn, Theodore Ayres
Reno, Frederick Rensselaer Tuller, Orlando Prentiss
Machen, William Wallace Richter, John Albert
Tonzi, Norberto
MoOonnell, David Joshna Beadier, James
Troewortby, Henry Edward
McKinnon, Albert Dwight Shannon, William Rossel Van Meter, Edgar Snowden
McMollen, John
Shields, William
Webster, Jam.es Alfred
Mille~, Charles Hermann
Shipp, William Walter
Webster, Mark
Mitchell, William
Shoobert, Oha~. Waldon B. White, James Riggs
Molhollaod, Robert Smith Smith, George Washington White, John James
Momford, Ira Edgar Leroy Smith, James Wiley
Williamson, Charles
Noble, Frank Charles
Smith, Samuel Nathaniel Wilson, Geor11:e Dorsey
Olney, Albert Downing
Stevens, James
Woodward, Oscar J
Olofe, Olar.Bernhard
Strother, JGhn Pryor
Zener, Stephen Olin-116.

'Io the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1895.]

Past Ma11tere 1

James Todd Laird,
William A Salisbury,
James Thaddeos Jones,

David Wilkinson Jenks;
Marvin Monroe Wakefield,

Bayley, Simeon Stovall
Clark, Lother Goddard
Ooombs, William James
Dale, Elias
E11.Stin, Achilles
Gibson, Samuel Carroll

Hill, Charles Edmond
Lavick, William
Mark, Joseph
Matson, John
Mowberg, Augustus

Bolio, James Francis
Boghes, James Edward

Lynch, Thomas Halpin
Ockenden,Lewis Wm. G. G.
Riggs, Charles Francis

Albert Angnstus Smith,
Andrew Jackson .Myers.

MASTER MASONS:

Noble, Emery H
Pierce, John Milton
Warner, Charles Sloan
Weller, Oliver D
Wood, John-29.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Claflin, Oharles L

Ballard, James Larndry

Smith, William Angustns-3.

WITHDRAWN:

ENTERED APPRENTICES :
Bennet~, William Joseph

481

Oberg, Louis Iverson-!.
Redden, Silas 8
Sherwood, Barry-8.

· WITllDBAWI!':

Donahoo, Michael Jefferson

Martin, Bamoel-2.

GREENVILLE LODGE, No. 249.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Alford, Barton Timothy
Kerr, John James
Bayle, Claudius Galen
Bell, Tyree Alexander
Kramer, Fred
Schermerhorn.Martin Luth'r
Briscoe, Walter Hobert
Landers, James
Snow, Bett Grant
Oolfman, John Weston
La Roe, Jabes Hodgen
Sumner, John Jd
Domas, John Worthington Monap:han, Patrick Henry Toombs, Arthur
Harris, Milos King
Nelson, Thoma·s Pleasant Williams, Alonzo Coleridge
Hyden, John Calvin
Parks, Benjamin Franklin Wood, William Pendleton
·Jelich, Baldo
Richter, Obarles
-23.
DIED:

Williams, Samuel Haycraft

Yager, Cornelios-~.

Greenville, Plumas County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next 811.cceeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

James Elisha Perry, Malller,
John Alexander Ohrlstie, Sen. Deacon,
Theo. FrE'lingbnyseo EmDft>ns , S. Ward., John R Murray, Junior Deacon,
Hiram Jackson Hathaway, Jun. Warden, Robert William Yoong, Marshal,
Robert Leslie McGill, 1i"ea1urer,
Gustav Herman Walters,
} StfJtllards
William Thomas Treleaven, Secretary,
Alexander Doogald McMillan,
'
Donald William McKenzie, Tyler.
Paet Mastera•

Robert William Yoong,
John R Morray,

Theo. Frelinghuysen Emmons, J obn Alexander Christie.
Kenneth McLeod,

ALTURAS LODGE, No. 248.
Alturas, Modoc County.

l\IASTER MA.SONS :

Grant, Angus Doncan

Harland, Henry Lomley-U.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next 811.cceeding F}ill Moon.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

OFFICERS1

Oameron, Alexander-I.

William E. Armstrong, Master,
Andrew Jackson Myers, Senior Deacon,
David Wilkinson Jenks, Sen. Warden,
John Edward Raker, JunU>r Deacon,
John Oharles Rachford, Jun. Warden,
Lance 0 Estes, Mara/UJl,
·James Todd Laird, 1reasurer,
-,-- - - - - - - . l Stewards,
Silas Washington Pepperdine, Secretary, -~ - - - - - - , f
Alfred Gagnon, Tyl.er.

42

482

Returns of t!ie Sul>ordinate LodgM

· [Aug. 1,

1895.]

To the (}rand Lodge of Oa1,ifornia.

483

MASTER MASONS:

ADIN LODGE , No. 250.
. Adm, Modoc County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:ct preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICER S•

Warre_n Dal~ Packwood , Ma&er,
George Horace Knight, Sentor ])eacon,
Francis Marion Keeserling , Ben. Warden, Joseph Fernand Lapoint Junior
DeaCOfl
Frank Pierce Parrish, Junwr Warden,
Charles John McCoy M:U.shal
'
Albert Blaske, 11-eaBUrer,
Joseph Richardson t'
· '
John Sebastian Fruits, Secretary,
Morris Blaske,
'f Stewards,
Eleley Wiman Groves, Tyler.

ENTERED APPRENT IOES•

Elisha Parker Grubbs,
John 8ebastiao Frnite.

RESTORE D:

McDonald, Thom&11 Joseph-2 .
WITHDRA WN:

Davis, David

Barrett, John Riston
Hitohoock , Thomas Ashley Rice, Oharles William
Brown, Hiram Salmon
Kellogg, El1'sha
R'ice, Geo. Freelon Hneston
Cnrran, Henry David
Kunckler, Joseph
R'ice, .Th omas Jetferson
Fairfield, David
·L apoint, Gonzagne Luis
Baling, Richmond
Groves, Jerome Charles
Palmer, Mllrvin Carlton
S mIth, Charles A ngn~tns
Hall, James Gilmore
Peck, John Loveman
Talb t Th
Ir
H b t w·11·
F
o,
omas vln
ar er , 1 1am ranklin Preston, Edmond Benj.G.T. Wilson,
Thomas Walter 38
Harrell,Ja mes PorterGro ve
'

Herzberg, A.ognst-2 .

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

llleLaughl in, James Frederick

MASTER MASONS:

McKenzie, John Johnson- 3.

Smith, Jacob

Butler, Samuel Allen
McAree, Robel't

Past .lllasters1

Leonidas Hamlin Hopkins, J oeeph Franklin Parrish,
George Horace Knight,
Thomas Alex. Roseberry ,
James Clinton Lewis,
Charles John McOoy,

Bnmp, George Henry
Holl, Jesse Cunningha m
McA.lpin, John
Oonger, Peter B
Hunnewil l, Frank Engene Morgan. Watkin
Drennan, Alexander
Hunriewil l, Nap. Bonaparte Newman, Thomas
Glynn, Martin
Irwin, William Allen
Pierce, Richard Thomae
Goodall, James Edward
Keablee, Thomas Ash ·
Pryor, John
Graham, Archie
Kelly, Joseph
Radcliffe, Charles Clarence
Hawks, James A.op:ustua
Kist.er, Oscar Hugo
Siegel, Sigmond
Heath, Warwick Ptolemy Kydd, David Phillips
Travis, Abner Andrews
Bector,Ab raham Frederick Langley, Exii Henry
Williamso n, Robert Jardine
Hick, William
McA.fee, Robert
--4.1.

Randle, Walter Clemo

Smith, Silas Bemls-S.

EXPELLED FOR UNMASONIO CONDTCT :

Mathewso n, Archie-1 .

LANDM ARK LODGE , No. 253.
Madi.on, Yolo County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:z:t preceding Pu1,l Moon.
OFFICER S:

John Samuel Tntt, J4aBll'r,
John George Frederioks , S!lf&Wr Dea.con,
John Gillison Helm, Senw Warden,
Warren Alston Brown, Junior DeatJon,
Henry Fr&nciR Shulte, Tt.mior Warden, Thomas Hall, Marshal,
William Hayes, Treasurer,
Charles Wellingto n Scott, l 81.euJarda,
Francis Marlon Strickland , &Cl"etary,
Rilford General Tadlock, f
George Tandy, 7}/ler.

BODIE LODGE . No. 252.
Bodle, Mono County.

Past Masters•

Stated Mutmg11, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICER S1

Hugh McCaghre n, M(lSter,
Francis Marlon Smith &m·i ])
Frank Edmund Qoinvilie, Ben·i m Warden, George Kenny Fitz a~ . k
e])aoon,
Natha · l
B d r. ,~ Wi
P nc • .,un. eacon,
me
oy • .,un..-r arden,
Ansel Rowley ·Burnside
Marshal
James l:ltuart Cain, 7re<1surei-,
James Watson ~
'
'
John Forrest Parr' Secretary '
W'll'
'
Ste1cards,
1 ia.m T orl ey,
Frederick William Williams, Tyler.

°:.

w

Past Masters:

George Kenny Fitzp11trick,

Francis Marion bmith,

Thomas Joseph McDonald.

John Samuel Tutt,
Thomas Hall,

John George Frederick s, John Ashby TnU, P. G. M .
Francis Marion Strickland ,

Bland, James Milton
Brown, John Thomas
Caldwell, Edson Knox
Corbin, Newell
Craig, Thor'nton
Davisson, Benj. Franklin
Davisson, John Rossell

Galvin, Henry
Orengo, Benjamin
Hilliker, Loren Warren
Phansteel , Louis
Howard, Edw'd Robertson Silberstein , Chas, A. Adolph
Johnson, Henry Bonaparte Stephens, Josiah Joseph
Levy, Wolf
Tandy, George Wellington
Me:ft'ord, Henry Alfred
Tompkins , Joaeph :Millard

MASTER MA.SONS:

-31.

ENTERED APPRENTI CE :

White, Edmand- 1.

484

Retur ns of the Sulxwdinat.e Lodges

[Ang. 1,

1895.J

485 .

To the Gran d Lo<UJe of OOlifornw.
WEL COM E LODG E, ·No. 255.

READ ING LODG E, No. 254.

Lt>moo re, Tulare Count y.

Stated Me.dings, Saturd ay of or next preudi ng Full

Reddin £', l!ihaata Coun& y.

OFFIC ERS1

Stated Me.dings, third Saturd ay in each month.
OFFIC ERS a

Frankli n Pierce Primm, Ma.81.er,
John Richard Lowdon, Senior Warden ,
Peter Glal!Zer, Junior Warden,
Frank Miller, 7reaaurer,
William Pierce McKean, Secretary,
John Howard Miller, Chaplain,

William Ora Blodge tt, Senior Deaoon,
William Mott Campbell, Junfor Deacon,
Ohanncey Carroll Bush, Mar1hal,
Thomas Borton Smith, J Btetoards
'
Joseph Jalma Lefebvre, 1
George Parish Jewett, 7Yler.

Pa.at Ma•t.er •'

Chaoricey Carroll Bush,
Edward Alexander Reid,
.William Pierce McKean,
Frankli n Pierce Primm,

..1.lexe.nder Levy;
Frank Marshall Swasey ,
George Howard Sechris t,

Thomas Borton Smith,
John Howar d Miller,
Adolph Dabrowsky.

MASTER MASONS:

Rohm, J. Thornton
Hardin, Mark R.
Bamber , John
&eltze r, Rudolp h MoPiiz
Wilkes
Mathew
Herron ,
Bessmer, Andrew John
Sanders Edward
Rerzing er, Joun
Brackins, Samuel Elbert
Sandry ' Samoel
Honeton, 'J,'homaR James
Carpen ter, William
n, James Freema n
Scamm~
nd
Hammo
Joseph
er,
N.Hont
0.E.O
DeBrettville,An t'n
Alfred
Seed,
Joseph
Olio
Lawry,
Dean, Arthnr Mason
Smithson, James l:ltentoo
Major, John New.ton
Denni~, Leslie Mosley
Swedbu rg, Eric
McCormick, James
Downmg, Isaac Hayden
Weil, Sigmond
Lyle
t
Herber
Moody,
.
P11.rl,e~
~ton, James
Wilber, Rqland Tavlor
n
Aolomo
,
Nathan
F~llmao, Samuel l htlhps
Williams William ·Wallace
Peterso n, Alfred F
Fisher, Fabian
Wood, William Aogost us
Hampto n, Delano Wash'n Reynolds, John Edward

Juline Hender son Fox, Senior Dea.aon,
William Horace Sanborn, MaBter,
Darwin Seth Fish, Junior Deacon ,
,
Warden
Senior
d,
Bieitfrie
Henry
John
lot Gilroy, Mar,ha l,
Launce
,
Warden
Marcos (J. Carter, .Junior
John William Rhodes, StetDard.,,
Gilbert Edward Shore, Trea11urer,
t,
Geo. Alex. Josh. F. Brothers, SetJretary, Joseph Marriot
J obn Benton , Tyler.

I

Pa•t Maater & •

Geo. A. Joshua F. Brother s,

Gilbert Edward Shore,
Joline Henderson Fox,

Thomas Chamb ers.

MASTER MASONS :

Esrey, Joslin
Agee, William Monroe
Ayers, Andrew Mansfield Goodman, Joseph
Hatch, Martin Payne
Barry, Jaines Chl\rles
Bloyd, William Washington Hays, William Price
Hill, Eleazer
Browns tone, Alfred
Horlbo t, Egbert Ray
Borrell, Lincoln D.
Kreyen bagen, Emil
Butler, Andrew B
Kurtz, John Leopold
Oamp, Winfield Scott
Lane, Oliver P'erry
Ohambers,.William 1!;
Manter , Charles
Ohlldress, John
M•rlow , William
Co!l'ey, James
Momson, Henry
Cortis, Arthur Bibbings

Moore, Fred Thompso!I
Murphy, Richard Augustine
Nathan , Herman
Nathan , Louis David
Palmer , Norman Leslie
Railsback, Geo. Washington
Robinson, John Shelley
Sweetla nd, Byron Kear
Tobin, John Coffman
Williams, Joel Wilson
Worswick, John
Worswick, William Henry
-'8.

FELLOW ORAFT :

Schwar tz, Gottlo b-I.
ENTERE D APPREN TICES:

Gibbons, Lewis

Nidiffer, David Perkin s-2.
DIED:

-63.
ENTERE D APPREN TICES:

Colaw, Benjamin Ami

Moon.

Hackett , Henry

Merrill, Strong -2.

St.rJ.ee, Walter Evane- 2.
WITHDBAWN:

Dunning, Day Hieke- 1.

LODI LODG E, No. 256.

SUSPEN DED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

· Gilbert, Sam') Jonatha n R.
Gleaves , James Malcolm

Martin, John Je1freys
DIED:

Haskell , George Henry Hedge -I.

Lodi, Sau Joaqa ln Count y.

Pifer, Adam -'.

Stated Meetin gs, Tliurs~y of or ~t preceding Full

Moon.

OFFIC ERS:

Nathan Roswell Barbour, Senior ])Ba()On ,
Pleasan t Hay Tindall, Mall.er,
Bright, Junior Deacon,
George Worley Le Moin, SeniorW arden, Oalvin Allen
Gillespie, Marshal,
George Albert Foster, Junior Warden, Loman Oscar
Church man. l Steward s,
Oonway
Benj.
rer,
Trea11u
ce,
Ezekiel Lawren
Beckma n, f
pher
Christo
Henry
ry,
Secreta
Jr.mes Doctor Hu1fman,
J oho Ralodlne Hale, Tyler.
Frederi ck William Coleman, Ohapla in,

486

Returns of the Sulnrdinate Lodges

Ralph Ellis,
Edwy Adelbert Burchard

.

· [Aug. 1,

1895.]

1.o the Grand Lodge of California.

487

Paet Maaters:

Charles Hartwell Corson,

'

Nathan Roswell Barhonr.

EVERGREEN LODGE, No. 259.

MASTER MASONS :

Ay~rs, Allen Trambnll

Fer:Jan, Ch.. rles Marsham
Bl111sdell, Charles E •Jward Friedberger, Leo
Blodgett, Joha Millard
Hageman, Charles
Book, Charles Henry
Kettelman, David
Churchman, Benj. Conway Nelson, Sveod Christia.a
Compton, Peter Wood
Norton, Charles Wilhs

Peach, Ml\rtio J.
Poppe, Fraok
Sanborn, Horatio Wallace
Siegel, William Frederick
Smart, Fraoklin Newton
t:lollars, Charles
-38.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Cogswell, Francis

Larrison, William Collis-2.

SUllPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Craig, Howard Miller-I.

DIED:

Riverside, Riverside County.

Stated Meetings, first Friday of each month.
OFFICERS:

K1n11sbury Sanborn, Mo.IJlei-,
Byron Melnot Longfellow, Sen. Deacon,
George Dimock Ounoingbam, 81-. Warden, William Austin Anderson, Ju.ni.or De<WOn,
William John Lamrick, Junior Warden, David G Mitchell, Mar•hal,
llleno B Bowman, Treasurer,
Abraham Andrew Sulcer, l Stewarda
Robert Preston Oondiff, Secretary,
John T Jarvis,
George Hathaway Deere, Chapla·in,
George Mortimer Skinner, Tyler.

r

'

Rowland, John Morgan-I.
Past Maatere:

Wilson Byron Rnssell,
James William Johnson,
George Mortimer Skinner, Meno S Bowman,
John Alex. Wm. Hamilton, Lorenzo Franklin Darling,
Samuel Bond Hinckley,
Frank Browne Morrell,
Walter Elmer Keith,
Charles Goodrich Atwood,
Charles Wesley Filkins,

PENRHYN LODGE, No. 258.
Penryn, Placer County.

Stated Meeting11, 1'hur11day of or neJ:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERH:

Jas. Penpraze Medland Phillips, Ma•ter,
Owen Roland Owens, Senior Warde,,
John Gove Boggs, Junfor Warden '
Robert_ William Roberts, TreasurW:.,
Frederrnk Charles Miles, Seoretary,
Nathan Ronnd Peck, Ohaplain,

James Edward French, Sen. Deacon,
Gustave Adolph Deiter, .Junior Deacon
Cliarles Martio, Marlhal,
'
David Roberts Owen I
David Donald,
'f Ste1oarda,
James Morley Ewart Manley, Tyler.

Past Mcater81

Robert William Roberts,
Seneca Arthur Dene!
J1111. Penpraze Medland Philiips,
'
Barron, William
Cranley, William
· Dickerson, Thomas
Hughes, David Griffith

Frederick Charles Miles.

MASTER MASONS:

Jones, David Humphrey
Logan, Robert Adelbert
Molle•, Theodore
Owens, Richard Hugh.

RES'OORED:

Severance, William Wallace-I.

Rae, James
Reith, John, Jr.
Severance, William Wallace
-24.
WITHDRAWN:

Lloyd, Bogh John-I.

Albert Hermes,
Barte mos R. Singletary,
John P. Shumway,
Sydney Peany Tressler,
Abraham Andrew Snloer.

MASTER MASONS:

Alguire, Myron
Frost, George
McLeod, John William
Allatt, Horace Edmond
Fullerton, George Herbert McLeod, Lemuel James
Allen, Benjamin Franklin Gage, William Judson
Monroe, Peter
.Anderson, William Henry Gladden, George B
Moody, Edward Payson
Angus, James Adam
Gonsolns, Philip Andrew Neuman, Lewis Henry
.Attrell, Charles Edward
Gray, Charles R
Newman, Gustavus Olivio
Baker, Judah Sears
Gregory, Lyman
North, John Greenleaf
l!i•mer, Jacob Eden
Rall, Priestly
Noyes, Joseph Sibley
Bloom, Samuel Monroe
Bandy, Benjamin Bumpns Papineau, Ottley
Bloom, William
Hays, Howard T.
Parkhurst, John Frederick
Blue, James Henry
Hayt, William Augustus
Phelps, William Wykes
Boggs, Augustus Washing'n Hell mer, Clarence Delaney Potter, Harvey
Bonham, John
Hellmer, William Zeaman Purington, William Ansel
Brockman, John W
Henshaw, Latin R.
Reynolds, George Nicol
Burgeea, Clayson Sylvester Holmes, Elmer Wallace
Rice, Almer L
Burnham, Daniel Heath
Howard, George Edward Richardson, Frank Watson
Carr, William Wallace
Huff, Melvin Byron
Robioson, Henry Walter
O..tieman, John Saxton
Innes, William
Rodgerson, James A
Castleman, Martin Major
Jackson, Lewis Edward
Rogers, John
Oox, John Henry Dutcher Jarvis, Joseph
Rotes, 0 Grant
Oox, William Emery
Jenkins, Robert Theodore Roose, Frank
Culpepper,~ampson Wm. Kennard, George Gilbert Rouse, Gaylor
l>avie, Edward James
Klinefelter, Peter K
Rossell, Doctor Thomae
De Witt, Asahel Henry
Lawrence, lll.erton L
Russell, Zadoc
Douglass, Broce E
Lightner, Felix
Shugart, Kelita Davis
Du Bole, f,ewis Court
Load, Adolphus Steinfleld Smith, James Withers
Dunbar, Frederick Martin Martin, Achilles
St. Perrie, William
Dyer, Otis Theron
Mason, Dwight Bisco
Stanton, Edward Blair
l'onntain, Jabez Hosted
McDougall, James
Stanton, Edward M

488

Returns of the Subordinaie Lodgea

Stevens, Charles W
Stoart, Edward B
Thayer, George Richard
Tibbals, Barnabas

Tracy, Thomae
Walker, Slayton
Ward, George Franklin
Way, Ellsworth Henry

Anderson, Charles F
Bittinger, George E

Crandall, Loois A
Hutson, Henry Woleley

Givens, David Alex.
Holt, Amos Kendall

Keyes, Charles Henry
Rice, Charles Thomas

[Aug. 1,

Widaman, Oliver P
Winters, Robert Pengrilly
Younkin, Albert-123.

ENTERED APPBENTIOES :

Lovell, Sturgess Oliver-5.

WITHDRAWN:

Stone, J ohn--0.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Mcintyre, William Joseph

Packard, Charles Edward-2.
DIED:

Battles, Daniel

Koethen, Julius Ludwig-2.

KING SOLOMON'S LODGE, No. 260.
San Franohco, San Franclaco Connty.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Gustave Gunzendorfer, Master,
Abraham Baroid Kayton, Sen. J)eaorm,
Arthur Macdonald Blade, Sen. Wdrden, Fred Burrage Wood, Junior Deaoon,
Richard Douglass Falkner, J. Warden, Domingo Henry Recarte, Mar•hal,
Benjamin Franklin Jellison, Treasurer, Charles Louis Peter Marais, l SUnDard.a,
Barry Baehr, 8BUretary,
James Lafayette Halsted, Jr., f
George Charles Dawson, 7)/ler.
Past Ma.ten 1

Albert Frederick Knorp,
George Charles Dawson,
William Alex. Robertson,
Benjamin Franklin Jellison,
James William Blake,

Gaston Ernest Bacon,
Samnel Valleau,
William Filmer,
Henry Andrew Ranft,

John Allen Hosmer,
Jacob Frank,
Edwiu Danforth,
Johnson Reynolds.

MASTER MASONS;

Alexander, Wm. Frederick Baum, Simon
Broderick, John Thomas
Amerman, Jacob Brouwer Beanston, Peter
Browe, Thomas Henry
Anderson, Julius
Benjamin, Abraham Fred'k Burich, George
Ankere, George
Bethell, Thomas Waldron · Burkhard, John Baptist
Armstrong, James William Blair, Walter Beasley
Callahan, Charles
Arnold, Charles Sanford
Bloomer, John Godfrey
Canney, Albert Sidney
Asher, Maurice Louis
Bone, John Christopher
Carmichael, Neal
Batkin, Alfred Augustus
Bottomly, Liberty Halstead Carpenter, John Lewis

To tlte Grand Lodge of Oalijornia.

1895.J

489

Chapin, Frank Eugene
Hart, Sydney
McCord, John
Cluff, Thomas McCrea
Harvey, Joseph
McCullough, Edwin Clifford
Col.ton, Alric Oswr
Hatch, James Henry
McKesvet, Charles
Cords, David Andrew
Hathaway, William Russell McMullen, Lewis Green
Couper, August
Hatt, Joseph Arthur Henry Meteon, William Henry
Cox, Alexander Middleton Hawthorne, Charles Ralph Miller, Adao;i
Cozzens Nicholas Robert Hebbard, Jas. Chas. Bacon Miner, William Henry
Crackbon, Charles Lemuel Begeman,Frederlck Mehuo Moore, Robert Bruce
eraig, JameH
Heimburger, Edward
Morgan, Percy Tredegar
Morgenstern, Alfred Wm.
(,'resweli, Barry Thornton Heitmann, Olaus Henry
Crotiy, .Michel Francis
Henderson, William Edwin Morton, Thomas
(,'rough, J obn Arthnr
Hertz, Louis
Mosgrove, Matthew
Neal, George Folger
Daverkosen, Frank Edw'd Higgins, Charles Clunn
Davis, Henry H
Hinkel, Charles Lewis
Nelson, Peter Nicoll
DeLuca, Gesualdo
Hinrichs, Charles Jacob
Neville, Samuel Edmund
Denuery, Leon
Hoag, Charles Jared
Normand, Lewis Edmond
Hoffman, Leon Leonard
O'Connor, Edward Arthur
Depew, Charles Milton
DeYoung, Michel Harry
Holje, Martin
O'Leary, Thomas
Dixon, Samuel Washington Hul(hes, Edwin Calvin
Oliver, William Gibson
Doane, Willard Crowell
Hunsaker, Hiram Walker Ostrander, William Weed
DooHe, John Christian
ljlunt, Dennis Derwin
Outcalt, Peter
Drucker, George Ihmer
Hutchings, Hiram 8amuel Palmer, George J
Dunne, James Patrick
Isham, Ernest Jackson
Patton, Thomas
Durst, John Haines
Jackson, Archibald
Pennycook, W'sh'n Wallace
Eagar, Thomas
Johnson, Robley Dungleson Pennycook, Wm. Gemmel
Pel'kins, Alfred Judson
Edwards, Edward
Johnston, James
Edwards, Robert .Maze
Johnston, Jolln
Peterson, Ivan Leopold
Egan, Edward Matthew
Jones, Ottiwell Wood
Regensburgllr, Martin
Engelberg, Emil August . Kalben, Edward Charles Rice, William Henry
~'arnsworth, Edward P.
Kerr, David
Rollins, Ai
Faron, I,ouis Hoile
King, Frederick Randolph Rothkopf, Albert Peter
Fields, Nels Tboraldson
Kinread, William Henry
Babin, John Ira
Firebaugh, Henry Clay
Krauss, Victor Wilhelm
Banderd, Henry
Fitz Gerald, John Joseph Kuchmeister, Henry And'w Bawyer,AlbertFranklin,Jr,
Fletcher, George Robert
La Berge, Walter Clifford Saxton, Jam.es George
Foster, John b'rankliu
Leeper, Thomas
Schaffner, Friedrich
Franks, George Mortimer Levy, Sylvain Samuel
Schneily, Leon
Frost, John Henry
Lewis, Emanuel
Schord, Louis Gustaf
Full.er, George Washington t.ewis, Mark Emanuel
Schultz, William Aug., Jr.
Gaston, Henry Carson
Little, William
Schussler, Toby
Little, William Thomas
Shilling, Levi
Gerdes, Henry George
Lonigo, Emile Viotor
Silver, Mark Butler
Gilmore, Jolin Henry
Glass, Louis
Loud, Eugene Francis
Sioli, Paolo Andrea
Godsay, George Porter
Lowen11erg, Albert Joseph Smiley, Samuel Patton
Smith, Andrew Francis
Goldman, Joseph Hamilton Loy, William Edward
Gorman, Jas. Bartholomew Lunstedt, Heory
Smith, Emory Evans
Smith, Frank Landers M.
Graham, George Davis
Lurmann, Karl Fritz
Graham, Irvine
Lynch, Henry Hudson
Smith, John Thompson
Grant, Andrew Simon
Mansfield, Isaac LeRoy
Smith, Samuel HarriHon
Marcus, Siegfried
Spanton, James
Bandley, Charles James
Marks, Thomas Henry
Spaulding, James Garfield
Hare, George Arthur ·
Harris, James William
Martens, John
Sproule, William
Harrison, Arthur Oleson
Martin, Henry Sebastian Stevens, James William

43

490

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Wieland, Robert Paul
Stutzman, Samuel Steven Ward, Oharles Emanuel
Wilkinson, Willia.m
Warfield, Ricb&rd Henry
Thomas, Allen Lloyd
Willi&mP, Solon Heywood
Thomas, Francofa Charles Warwick, Ja.mes ·
Wise, Wallace Christian
Warwick, James Bl.ain
Thomas, Thomas John
Witham, Walter Donham
Wedeles, lsidor William
Tracy, Theodore Foster
Witha.m, William Leonard
Welch, Jamee Francie
Troe, Charles ShRw
Wrenn, John Winchester
Van Deveer ,Matthias Payt'n Wertheimer, Kaufman
Wagner, Chae. August Wm. Wetzlar, Alexa.oiler Joseph Young, Andrew
Yoong, James
Wharft', Willia.Di Hatch
Wagner, Henry Fred.
Zillaui, Faustino-2 35,
Wheeler, George Henry
Walker, Robert Andrew
FELLOW ORAFT :

To the Grand Lotlge of Oaliforni,a.

1895.l

491

MASTER MASONS :

Oooper, Romeo Vivian
.Abel, George Lambert
.Anthony, George Jonathan Epperson, Brntue Clay
.Anthony, Orville Angelo Fouch, Ira Albert
Harris, Joseph Warren
A.ppley, Judson
Boardman, Franoi~ Marion Jackson, Calvin
Lowe, James Franklin
Brim, John Wiley
OoQlstock, Geo. Conrtland

Noble, William Wallace
Pryor, Benjamin Pollard
Rummelsburg, Alexander
Spencer, J oho Anderson
Walker, John
Welvb, Robert Francia-32 .

ENTERED APPRENTIO E:

WITHDRAW N:

Griffin, Thomas Davld-l.

Ratbbnn, William Timothy-I .

Auld, Ernest Chrlstian-1 .
ENTERED APPRENTIC ES:

Secor, William Albert
Wafer, William

Walker, George Henry

Williams, Edward Waeh'n-4.

LOMPO C LODGl!l, No. 262.

WITBDBAW N:

Jackson, Ellie Milne

Lompoc, Santa Barbara County.

Tonkins, John Lee-S.

.Neal, David Dalhoft'

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Burtis, Robert Wallace
Oashin, D'Arey Michael
ConneBS, Robert Stockton

Ryhiner, .Adolph Herman
Colp, Daniel 8anford
Van Vliet, Leon
Ozerny, Charles Edward
Dodge, Henry Washington Wolf•ohn, Henry-9.

Donaldson, Da.vid
Fillmore, William Henry

Fogll.', George
Peck, Levi Preston

DIED:

Tindal, George Watson--5.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or. next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS 1

Aldea Amazon Glasscock, Senior Deacon,
David Daniel Shean, Junior Deacon,
William Henry Budden, Marshal,
Zachariah Taylor Rocker, l Sui/J4rda,
Charles Emory Carter, f
Alonzo Wilson Dewing, Tyler.

Henry Jonathan Bnrdick, Master,
Erastus David Holton Webb, S. Wa,.4en,
James Burrows Dean, Junior Warden,
Isidore Weill, T1·eruurer,
Walter Oolton Ball, Secretary,
Rev. James Wesley Kel~y, Ohaplain,

Pa•t llla•tena

Henson Poland,
Isidore Weill,

Zene Walgamott Saunders, Austin 0 .Warwick,
George Fergnaon Rn~ker.
William Jackson,
MASTER MASONS :

TUSCAN LODGE , No. 261.
WUltama, Col••a County.

Stated Meetings, ll'riday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER S:

Past llla•ter• •

Lewie Hord .Anthony,

McCabe, Henry Edwin
McGee, James Henry
Parker, Thomas Coke
Peek, Wright Hunt
Perry, Thomas Longworth
Rudolph, Harvey Sampson
Trnitt, Daniel T
Weill, Ormond Oharles--41 .

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Patrick Henry Graham, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Edwin Rathbun, M°"'tl!r•
Frank J11mes Schuckman, Junior Deacon,
William Robert Tolly, Senior Warden,
Lewis (}Manor, Mai-ahal,
f,ewia Hard Anthony, Junior Warden,
Beruard Henry Peters, l Stewarda,
Hendley Moore Cooper, Treaaurer,
f
George Hemenway,
Jamee Wilson Crutcher, 8euretar11,
Adolphus Wellington Kimball, 'fyler.
John. Franklin Fonch,
Renben Clark,

Griffin, Richard S
Bacon, JaQles Dalton
Bayley, 'Qenjamln Franklin Bill, Jesse
Holst, Herhardt Tonberg
Brashear, Jeptba lJ
Brougbtop, Boward Anth'y Huyck, Edgar Dnmont
Irwin, John Lloyd
Dimock, Joseph
Jackson, Walter King
Dockery, Jobu
Lambert, Henry Harrison
Earl, James Finnel
Meade, Alonzo
Elkins, Iris Benson
Gleaves, Archibald Duncan

Robinson, William Henry-'-2.

Holst, Bendix

ENTERED APPRENTIC ES: ·

McKay, William Sbirland-2 .

Brown, John Anderson

RESTORED :

Griffin, Richard 8-1.
WITHDRAW N:

Joseph Edwin Rathbun,

Whittemore, Benjamin Franklin
DIBD:

Smith, Frank J-1.

· Woods, Jobn-2.

492

Returns of the Stibordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

HESPERIAN LODGE, No. 264.

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of California.

ORLAND LODGE, No. 265.

Santa Marla, Santa Barbara Co11nt;y.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nut preceding Full Moon.

Orland, Glenn Co11nty.

Stated Meetings, f'ridav of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS1

J'Rmes Franklin Goodwin, Mast11r,
Samuel Fleisher, Senior Warden,
George Mason Doane, Junior Warden
'
William Laird Adam, T1·easurer,
Samuel Charles Sinshelmer, 8et!reta.ry,
J'ames Hoston, Ohaplain,

OFFICERS1

Walter Elliot, Senior Deacon,
Charles Lee Rice, Junior Deaaon
'
Henry Stowell, Marshal, •
i
Thomas Boyd,
Oharles William Bradley, f SteUJard• ,
James Madison Treat, Tyler.

William Henry Papst, Senior. Deacon,
Michael O'Hair, Matter,
William Henry MorriBBey,Senior Warden, Edward Pouliot, Junior Deaaon, ·
Thomas Hulen Dodson, Junior Warden, David Alfred Hannah, Marshal,
{Stewards,
Hnbbard Wm. Clabourn Nelson, Trea1., J11mes Byron Morrissey,
George Washington Harriger,
Thomas Henry Dawson, Secretary,
.
Gawn W Murdock, Tyler.
Thomas Linnington Knock, Ohaplain,
Paat. Maatera r

Paet Jlf. .ceru

Addison Hervey OtT,
Irving' Nolan McGuire,
William Wilson Stilwell,

Henry Stowell,
Marks Fleisher,

493

James Haston,
William Parker Kemp.

MASTER MASONS :

Nance, Thomas Clayton
Kaiser, Joseph
Atkins, James Marvin
Newman,Frederick William
Kelley, Hugh Sylve~ter
Bagbey, Henry Clay
Niverth, Stephen
Llben, John Battiste
Bell, Benjamin li'ranklip
Prell, John Gottlob
Long, John
Boyd, John
Rice, John Henry
Marsh, Walter John
Bradley, Oharlee
Shoman, John Lennington
Oalkios, Albert <Jhamplain Martin, Charles Wesley
Stowell, Henry Edgar
Mattee, Feli)[
Faber, Henry Clay
Thornburg, Larkin
Maulsby, Orlando Wood
Feeler, Stephen Arnold
Thornburg Madison
Foneran,Zach.Valleqnerv'e McKee, James Franklin
McMurrav, Samuel Andrew Tietzen P~ul Otto
Grant, John W
Twitch~IJ, Fremont o
Miller, Anthony Wayne
Gries~ngher, Gaiseppe
Weilhelmer, Alfred
Miller, Isaac, Sr.
Harris, Henry Hersh
Willfams, Thomas J'eft"reys
Miller, baac, Jr.
B.~yden, John Harrison
Woods, Nnhnm Hinckley
Miller, William Wallace
Hill, Robert D
-60.
Hobson, J ease Iris

Fountain Columbus Graves,
Michael O'Bair,

Thomas Halen Dodson,

William Henry Papst.

MASTER MASONS :

Sutfin, Winslow
Sweeney , Goolsby
Trafton, Charles Joshua ·
Warren, William 0
Watkins, William Wallace
Wiley, Jasper Grant-31.

McKinley, William Berry
Brown, David
Murdock. Robert Barns
Brown, Thomas
O' Hair, William
Drake, Thomas Benton
O'Hair, William B
Ehorn, Samuel Fraley
Evans, Sylvester Kirkwood Papst, Albert
McCllntock, J'ohn Porter Scribner, James Noles
FELLOW CRAFT:

Myers, Bernhart-1.
RESTORED:

Graves, Fountain Colambas

Sutfin, Winslow

Watkins, William Wallace-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Rammelsborg, Herman-1.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Herron, James Williamson

Thornburg, Frank Lesl!e-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Fry, l:lerman-1.

NORTH EAST LODGE, No. 266.

RESTORED:

Robson, Jesse Iris

.Martin, Charles Wesley-2.

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.

WITHDRAWN:

Hertz, Louis

Fort Bldw11ll, Modoc Co11nty.

Williams, Jaoob-2.

OFFICER~:

Francis Kastner Smith, Senior Deacon,
George Hamilton Ayres, Master,
Warren Bibber Wbittemore, 'Jun.Deacon,
Albert Carroll Lowell, Senwr Warde.n,
Charles Graham Alexander, Maraha~
Jacob Messner, Junior Warden,
Robt.Frankl'n McConaaughy, l steUJards,
Max Fulcher, '.lreasurer,
I
John Dodson,
Daniel Parish Browne, Seorelar'JI,
Jerry Herrington, Tyler.

494

Returns of the Subordinate Loriges

1895.J

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornia.

495

Past Masters a

George Ma.rtin Kober,
Albert Ca.rroll Lowell,

Francis Finlay,

George Hamilton Ayers.

DURANT LODGE, No. 268.

MASTER MASONS: .

Bailey, Oliver Eugene
Bacher, Douglas
Bucher, Johu
Chappell, Albert Shaw
Olos, J oho Martin
Flllis, Jam es ·
Fee, Charles Havens
Grant, Thomas

Hickey, Ja'mes Bartlett
.Jopp, Hudson Orseo
Kober, Henry
Martin, Aaron Davis
Metzner, Julius
McDowell, Alfred
Miller, Oathe
FELLOW ORAFT :

Berkeley, Alameda County,

Moore, Charles Everette
lllunroe, Edward
Poor, Franklin Benjamin
Shal'tel, William Warren
Slade, Charles Francis
Sweeney, John Steele
Toooiogseo, Asmus Fred'k
-35.

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Barzillai P Boll, Master,
John Oharles Jensen, Senior Wa1·den,
John Marti~, Junfor Warden,
John Tower Morrison, Tieasurer,
Cha.ties Henry Higgins, Secretary,
William Ellis, Ohap'latn,

Gordon, David 8-1.

Past Masters:

RESTORED:

Bailey, Oliver Eugene

James Harris Hunter, Senior IJeacon,
Henry Olay Galloup, Junior IJeaoon,
Daniel McLeod.Fraser, MarBhaZ,
James Hervey Deming, i steUJardB,
Robert Greig,
f
Reuben Hurd Stocking, Tyl.er.

William Walker Anderson,
Wm. Herschel Menefee,
Joseph McClain,
Michael Jones Little,
Fra.ncis Henry E. O'Donnell, Louis Welleodorlf.
Robert Edgar,

George Dickson Metcalt,
Frank Howard Payne,
Carlos Reuben Lord,
William Ellis,

Martin, Aaron David-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Hard, Harry 0-1.

MASTER MASONS:

\

GALT LODGE, No. 267.
Galt, Sacramento County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

James Henry Thompson, Master,
Paredes Hamlin Latourrette, Sm. IJeaoon,
Elihu Shields Henley, Sen. Wardm,
Amos D Shepard, Junior Deacon,
Clark Danna Colnmbos, Junior Wardm, John Brewster, Marshal,
Ralph A Miles, Treasurer,
Jonathan Moore Overmeyer i
Samuel Whittingham Palin, Secretary,
James Madison Short
' f Steward.a,
John Goodwilla Rae, Tyler.
'
Past Masters:

Samuel Whittingham Palin,
Frederick Franklin Phelps,

Sam'! Carter McOlaoghry,
Paredes Hamlin Latourrette,
Ga.rretlion, George R
Hobday, Kelsey Henry
Kreeger, Solomon
Lewis, Samuel Amaozo

FELLOW ORAFTS :

James Madison Short.

MASTER MASONS :

Adams, Charles Campbell
Barnhart, Thomas M
Dickinson, James Wilborn
Donn, Alexander

Ames, Almon
Eastman, Joseph 8teele
Ott, August Lewis
Bagge, Lars Bronn
Edgar, Arthur
Palmer, Henry Austin
Bancroft, Edward P
Edgar, Samuel
Parkhurst, David Webster
Batten, William Rossell
Edgar, William James
Pettas, Thomas Asa
Blanchard, Milton Eugene Farrar, Joseph Teel
Rhorer, Milton Maria.m
Bontt\, John Harmon 0
Fischel, Simon
Rickard, Reuben
Brldgemao,Edward Charles Fox, llenry Benjamin
Sanborn, Warren Gilman
Bush, Robert Edward
Gottshall, Louis
Scotchler, Joseph Lincoln
Church, Sidney Leroy
Graber, Thomas Frederick Shaw, Edward Harvey
Clark, Lemuel Seth
Gre1mongh, Harry Thomas Stevens, Willie Watt Bligh
·Coiyoer, Silas Crawford
Heywood, Samuel
Stewart, Robert
Coon, Matthew Fernandez Hume, Joseph
Stoddard, Fred Peterson
Cripps, Henry Thomas
Kline, George Wasbingt.oo Stone, John
Day, John Holman
·
Long, Lonis Heintzelman Swain, George, Jr.
Dickiesoo, William Robert Luttrell, James Franklin Taylor, Henry Willard
Mantz, Robert William
Dikeman, Simon Henry
Thomson, Robert
Dobbins, Hugh Hillis
Mccleave, William
Turman, Byron Isaac
Dowling, Daniel Edward
McDonald, Duncan F
Walsh, Edward Marion
Durrell, George Gilman
Morris, Moses
Young, William Albert-79.

McLaughry, Harry Hull
Pendergast, Jell"o Campbell
Ray, Felix Grundy
Smith, Charles Samoel-25,

Morrison, John Mcintyre
Saph, Augustus Valentine

Waste, William Harrison
Wright, Howard Elwood

Wright, Leslie Allen-5.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Owen, Frederick Elmer-I.
RESTORED:

WITHDRAWN:

Scotchler, Joseph Lincl>ln-I.

Kerr, Louis Carmick-1.

.,

DIED:

Henley, James Brainard-I.

496

Returns of the Subordinate Lod,gea

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lod,ge of Oalif<YTnia.

1895.]

OLIVE BRANC H LODGE , No. 269.

497

"FALL RIVER LODGE , No. Z70.

Tulare, Tulare County.

Stated Mutings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICER St

Robert Lincoln Reid, Master,
Cecil Calvert Brock, Senior Warden,
Jacob Wolfrom, Junior Warden,
John Albert Goble, Treasurtrr,
JameH William Treadwell, Secretary,
Jabez Chism Gist, Ohaplai.n,

William Whittington , Senior Deaoon,
Samuel Richardson , Junior Deacon,
Anson Parson Hall, Marshal,
Charles Ferdinand Taggart, l Stew~rdl
Thomas Calvin Carothers, f
'
Osgood Knox Jones, 7y'ler.

William Pierce Ratlift',
Jamee William Treadwell,

James Winnard De.vis,
Robert Lincoln Reid.

MASTER MASONS:

Alford, Benjamin Michael Fay, Alfred
Meador, John
Allen, William Stanford
Fowler, Alonzo Tnlly
Miller, Ohrietian
Bachelder, Isaac Otis
Fry, Angna Eugene
Moore, James Samuel
Bachelder, John Langdon · Gillis, Malen Delaney
Moore, Stephen Baldy
Bacigalupi, Theodore
Gist, Hiram
Moore, Sylvester Doyle
Beason,Geo rge Washington Green, Francis Harrison Monroe, Francis Marlon
Beer, Frank Alfred
Hannaford, Wm. Edward Nelf, Andrew Daniel
Blythe, Samoel Allison
Harbough, Wm, Richard Notting, David Wheeler
Boone, Thomas Lee
Harrie, John Bnrlingame Oakford, Edward
Borders, Andrew
Hart\lr, Clinton William
Platner, William Albert
Bowles, Bourbon
Berman, Henry E
Ray, Randolph
Bowles, Scoit
Horton, William Henry
Richardson , Jesse
Broadwell, John W
Bongh, Rfobmond Nolly
Roble, Milton Alfonso
Busby, F~ancis Marion
Jarrard, Thomas Newton Rossell, Calvin Louis
Chism, James Thomas
Jaochius, Benno Woldemar Schoenemann, Lonie Emil
Clark, Ashford Woodward Johnson, Gowen Wesley Shaklee, John Wilson
Olark, Robert Carrick
Jones, Ralph
Sheppard,T hos. Armstrong
Corey, Albert Bailey
Kellogg, Lovell Milton
Steineger, Edward Andrew
Oopper, John A
Lanson, Charles Albert
Thompson, Tbos. Henkley
Cosper, Elias Truman
Madden.pa vid Wa~hington Tyler, Alvin Willis
Cross, Thomas
Madden,~ash'ion Douglas Wheeler, Alex. Woodfall
Douglass, William Frazier Manoch, Julias
Wilson, John Lewis
Datcher, Egbert William .Manuel, Benjamin Franklin Wishon, Albert Graves
Er,kles, John Graham
Maples, Thomas William Woods, Ezekiel Wm. Smith
Eckles, Robert Ransom
McCord, Thomas
Woody, John Hanson
Elwood, John Henderson :M.cMillan,RobertTbompson Wray, George Washington
Fanst, Geo. Andrew Willis McNeil, Geo. Lockpori
-95.
ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

RESTORED :

Wallace, William Barry-1.

Woods, Ezekiel William Smith- I.

WITHDRAW N:

Boller, Jacob Franklin

Stony Ford, Colusa. County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Pan Ma•tera1

John Albert Goble,
Geo. Washington Zartman,

SNOW MOUNT AIN LODGE, No. 271.

Crowell, William Albert-2.

OF'FICER St

John Manor Morrie, MastRr,
William Joshna Lovelady, Sen. Warden,
John Fernando Stites, Junior Warden,
Charles Lyman Ragain, '.ITeaaurer,
Richard Sisk Burgett, Settret&.1-y,
Eli Howard Roberiaon, Oh.aplain,

William Henry Stites, Senior Deaoon,
Arthnr Thomas Welton, Junior Deaoon,
Edward Andrew Haddick, Marshal,
Johnson Fender, l stewartii,
David Porter Ray, f
Thomas Wesley Morris, 2},ller.

Pa•t llla•tera 1

William Francis Frame,
John Manor Morris,

William Joshua Lovelady,

William Henry Stites.

MASTER MASON!:! :

De.via, Edward
McKaig, Wilbur Addison
Baddlck,Jo seph Newton M Moon, Alfred Saxe
Johnston, William Marion _Moss, John J
Kennedy, James Robert

Murphy, James Joseph
Sites, John
Sites, William Franklin
-23.

PASAD ENA LOD9-E , No. 272.
Pa.•a.dena , Lo• ,\ngele• County.

Stated Me,etings, first Monday in e.Mh month.
OF'FICER S1

Florin Leslie Jones, Mallter,
Harry Ridgway, Senior Warden,
William D Torner, Jun. Warden,
Sherman We.shbnrn, Treaaurer,
Romayne Williams, Searetary,
Charles Oowan Brown, Ohaplain,

Oscar Otto Freeman, Senior Deaoon,
Silas Th~odore DePencier, Jun. Deaoon,
John Kasper V!ier, Marshal,
Albert Wil~on Rocbll, I 8t111Dard.s,
Harley Foster Newell, 1
Louis Henry Bonner, '!'Sil.er.

"()barter revoked October, 1895.

44

498

Returns of the Subordinate Lorige,s

Harry Ridgway,
Romayne Williama,
Charles Andrns G11rdner,

[Aug. 1,

Past Ma•tera 1
Gilbert Brydon Ocheltree, Frederick Sandbam,
Florin Leslie Jones,
Perry Pollock Bonham,
Lyman M Sawyer,
Gates Daniel Newton.
MASTER MASONS:

Allin, Thomas David
Fraser, Jelferson Carvosso Patten, George Downing
Arnold, Delos
Freeman, Otto
Peaslee, John
Atlee, William Angnstns
Gibbs, Oharlie 0
Pierce, Anthony R
Baker, John Hamilton
Goldman, Ieaac St. Clair Prince, Purley Ogden
Banbury, Jabez
Goltman, Thoe. Winchester Proffitt, Green Lee
Bankier, William Winter
Greely, George Augnstns Reynolds, Isaac Julian
Bangbam, Jonatban Perkins Grimes, Charles
Rood, John Thompson
Bennett, Adelbert Leroy Grinnell, Fordyce
Rose, Henry Howard
Bennett, Henry Graves
Hartwell, Calvin
Rowland, Francis Feneloo
Bley, Alfonso Alb't Willits Hartwell, John Love kin
Bears, Isaac Newton
Breiner, John
HeiBB, William Albert
Shelhamer , John
Bristol, Albert Oliver
Hester, Melville Craven
Shelhamer John Albert
Brown, Joseph Gilson
Hodge, Jacob Sylve~ter
Smith, Oba,rles Arnette
Brown, Lother Grinnell
Houlahan, Daniel John
Steil, Peter
Brown, Patrick
Honsb, William Harvey
Thomas, Cyrus Backns
Bnckius, John Jacob
Hnlf, Lucius Jobns<!n
Thompson, Neils Lewis
Cahill, John Charles
Hngbes, James Barr
Thorns, Alfred
Oarrother s, Jeremiah
Johnson, Charles Lacy
Todd, Isaac Newton
Oberry, George Addey
Klock, Aaron Robert
Turbett, Albert Steel
Olsrke, James
Lane, David Courtney
Vail, Henry J
Clapp, William Taylor
Lang, Augustus
Wakeley, Alfred
Olapp, William Billings
Laspada, Lonie
Wakeley, William Henry
Cole, Galusha M
Magee, Harvey W
Webster, Thomll8 Henry
Coleman, Theodore
Martin, Thomas Jelfel'son Weck, Charles Erastus
Collis, Amos Myron
McDonald, John
Welsh, Joseph
Conger, Everett Lorentus McFarland, Elden Eugene White, Elon
Dalrymple, Nat Andrew
McGregory, Wm. Whitney Wiley, William Henry
Davies, Edward William
McLacblan, James
Wolf, Joseph
Day, Charles Ambrose
Montgomery, Robert Ells'h Wood, Almon
Dewey, Edwin Preston
Morrison, Charles James
Wood, Christian Kime
Drake, Alexander Oooper Meyers, Charles K
Wood, Isaac Newton
Drawbaug h, William
Miller, Rollin Hulburt
Woodward , William Lewis
Earley, Thomas
Norton, Edward Gray
Wright, George Elmer
Edwal'dB, Simon Josiah
Norwortby , William Sam'! Wright, Walter Savage
Ehrenfeld, Oharles
Orr, Hugh L
Yoong, Jackson B
Eyestone, James Wilson
Parker, John Tyler
Yonngclans, John Diedrich
-126.
FELLOW ORAFTS:
Banbury, Thomas
Barnard, Henry Lawson

Martin, Clarence Sinclair
Mills, John S.

Royce, Edward Horace-5 .

. Hoag, Thoma~ Leggett
Lukens, Theodore Parker

Sruith, Bayard Thomas
Webster, Edwara Casey-6.

Norwortby, William Samuel

White, Elon-4,

499

AFFILIAT ED:

•

Stewart, Thomas Jefferson- 1.
WITHDRA WN:

Bird, Arthur Milton
Oonger, Artbnr Henry
De Berry, Angus Jasper
Frary, Leander Warren
George, Elias Overman
Groeaendy ke, Edward
Griffith, Eugene Cook

Oaylord, Edward Everett
Nohle, William
Howe, Edwin Tucker
Slater, John Richard
Jewett,Ata nley Princhard s'n Stewart, Thomas Jefferson
Jacobs , Jaliiis Albert
Way, Robert B
Mohr, Richard Jacob
Wotkyns, Walter Llvingst'n
May, Ernest Heath
WilleU, Charles Joseph
McGilvray, Wiiliam Donald
-20.
DIED:

Vallett, Frank Henry-2.

Swift, Oharles

ANCHO R LODGE , No. 273.
Co~ton.

Loa Angeles County.

Stated Meetinga, Monday oj <YT' next pre,ceding Full Moon.
OFFICER S:

John Wesley Hanselma n, Ma.aler, f
Warner Alfred Sledd, Senior Deaoon,
George Washington Bryson, Sen . Warden, Styles Weaver. Junwr Deacon,
Benjamin Richard Kratzer, Jun. Warden, Max Nathan Newmark, Marshal,
Joline Abraham Goldwater, 'lreaau.rer,
Peter Jackson Goodrich,
I St.etoardB,
John Jay Morton, Secretarg,
Alfrfo Ramon 'l'alamantee, f
Albert Marion Peck, (Jhaplain,
Lewie Page, Tyler.
Paat MaBten;

Omri Bullis,
Charles Wooster,
Earl Sherman Waite,

John Jay Morton,
Geo. Washington Bryson,

Allen Percival Bentley,
John Wesley Hanselma n.

MASTER MASONS :

Abell, James Nelson
Hu.ylock, Isaac, Jr.
Blythe, Henry Olay
Lenzinger, Adolph
Buck, John Henry
Martin, Robert
Buckham, Bam'l Waterford McComas, Asbury
Bullie, Sherman Allen
Mitchell, Leroy Frye
Oarpenter , William Henry Morris, Jamee Walter
Cleghorn, William Jackson Mndge, Melville
Harbell, William Henry
Nickeuon , George Lewis
Barehman ,NelsonSylvester
Bellwood, James

Parker, David Jonathan
Rennolds, Isaac J obnson
Root, Edward Erastus
Shaffer, J obn
Sliter, Beymoor Horatio
Stahl, William
Treat, Thomas Robert
Welton, Arthur Foote-il .

Thompson, Frederick -2 .

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Heath, Clinton-1 .

RESTORE D:

Baker, John Hamilton
Lane, David Coortney

'1.o the (frand Lodge of California.

WITHDRA WN:

ENTERED APPRENT ICES:

Clare, Ambrose
Griffith, Elijah

1895.]

500

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodg(',t;

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

To· the Grand Lodge of Californin..

501

MASTER MASONS :

ARROYO LODGE, No. 274.
Arroyo Grande, San LuJa Obispo County.

Stated Meetinga, 'l'ueaday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Bela Clinton Ide, Master,
Newton Holmes Rose, Senior Deacon,
William Thomas Oook, Senior Warden, flerbert Nathan Adams, Junior .Deaoon,
John Seth Kinney, Junior Warden,
Adolph Phillips, Marshal,
Amos 0 Whittemore, Treasurer,
rd8
William John Smith, t St
f eum '
John William Gilliam, Seoretary,
Adolph Brieger,
Timothy Seeley, Ohaplain,
James Poole, Tyler.

Clay, Isham Harrison
Baker, Sanford Chase
Cook, William Henry
Bardo, Levi
Dorsey, Caleb
Barkie, Emmet Levi
Dorsey, Thomas Beale
Bell, John William
Endicott, Richard Henry
Bentley, Isom Hilliard
Bentley, George Jefferson Grim, Charles Grant
Heiskell, Jefferson Davis
Booth, James Godfrey
Broughton, James Richard

Lancaster, Geo. Washington
Laughlin, Francis William
Lawrence, George
Ostrom, Gilbert Pao!
Reynolds, Wm. Washington
Tulloch, John William
Woods, William Heory-35.

FELLOW ORAF.rS :

Wigley, George Washington
Fitzsimmons, Robert Miller Reooemuth, John Lonie
--S.
Fitzsimmons, Abram Miller Thompson, James Goodwin
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Mulroy, John Renry-S.

Moll, Romane

Cotter, Christopher Alonzo

Past Master 1

Bela Clinton Ide.
MASTER MASONS :

Aron, Isidor
Brown, George Samnel
Byers, Randolph
Clark, Charles Sammis
Darch, John Frederick

Poole, Jonathan
Eddie, James Law
Smith, Amos
Fink, Charles
Waterman, William Fred.
Harloe, Marcus
Hawkins, Arthur Wheelock Werner, John William:-26.
Pollard, Samuel Adams, Jr.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

WITHDRAWN:

Houghton, Jonah-1.

Schwob, John 0-l.
DIED:

Abbott, Seneca Howard-1.

SELMA LODGE, No. 277.
Selnla, Fresno County.

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or next preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS:

Winfield Scott Robinson, Master,
John Lair Mitche.ll, Senior Warden,
George Willard Terrill, Jurtior Wat'den,
Charles Menzo Kilbourn, '.lreasurer,
William Robert Stammers, Secretary,
Sims Washington Spears, Ohaplain,

Frederick Leslie Caoch, Senior Deacon,
William Antone Yost, Junior Deacon,
Adam Bixler, Marsha.~
'6....o.~uxirda
James W White,
'
Joseph Messersmith, r""'
Charles Black Sargent, Tyler.

Past Maatera:

Charles Robert Wood,
Richard Sommers Hinkson,

David SSnodgrass,
Walter Lee Chappell.

fames Daniel Wagner,
Henry Gise Rhodes,
LASTER MASONS:

OAKDALE LODGE, No. 275.
Oakdale, Stanlalaua County.

Stated Meetinga, Tueaday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS 1

Robert Gray Benson, Senior Deacon,
Jacob Haslacher, Maeter,
Dennis Burdett Warfield, Senior Warden, Martin Van Bol'eo Mano, Jun. Deacon,
George Francis Stearns, Jun. Warden, David Rickart, Marshal,
Sebastian. Theodore LeOlert, t
Ric~ard Harrison Bentley, Treaeurer,
' f 1'tBUJards,
Thomas Richardson,
Lome Kahn, Secretary,
Ebenezer Foster Crabtree, Tyler.
Past Maaters1

Joseph Warner,
Dennis Burdett Warfield,

Jacob Haslacher,
David Bickart,

Kaalberg, Hans M. H.
All, John
Blackman, Charles Monroe Knowles, William Edward
Lemmon, Helsel Keller
Block, Bernard
McOobbio. John Cameron
Brown, Eugene Elam
Mitchell, James William
Borton, Camillus N
Mowat, William
Oampbell, John .Blythe
Coolidge, William Manning Peters, Henry Franklin
Prince, Thomas Brown
Cotler, Herbert Nelson
Ross, Robert Hugh
Drew, Fred
Sawrie, Robert Alexander
Drew, George Freeman
Scott, George Milton
Heard, J.oho Wilkinson
Hoffman, Milton Decateur Sha.fer, William Herbert
Jordan, William Austin

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Maxwell, Eugene Taylor-2.

Karnes, James
Frederich Karl Weyer.

Shaw, Solon Benjamin
Simpson, Timothy Williams
Smith, James Oollios
Snyder, Monroe
Stroud, Ira Wesley
Stroud, John Allen
Walker, Charles Jesse
Walter, Charles Louis
Whitson, Jacob Emery
Willis, Victor Insley
Yeargin, John
Yohoson, Carl Frederick
-55.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Stone, Benjamin Motley-2.

Bunion, Edward Vermylion
DIED:

Collom, William Bell-1.

502

Returns of the Sub'Jrdinaie Lodge.s

[Aug. 1,

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 278.
Loa An1relea, Loa An1retea Conaty.

Stated .Meetinga, first Wednuday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

Oharles L Ennis, Master,
Warren Edward Rowley, Senior Deacon,
George Sinsabangh, Senior Warden,
Stanley Richmond, Jun(or lJeaoon,
Howard Graham Bnndrem, Jun. Wat·den, Andrew Peasley, Marsh.al,
Frank J Cooper, '.Irea.rurer,
William Glenn Spence, j StetoardB
Francis Ohnte Woodbury, Seort1la.r71,
William Parrish Jelfries, 1
'
Milton Cepbas Fordbam (of Pnttalpha. Lodge, No. 202), Tyl.er.
Paat Maateraa

James Robert Dupny,
Francis Chnte Woodbory,
Freeman Golding Teed,
Henry Zenas Osborne,
Charles Otis Scott,
Frank J Oooper,
James William Long,
Wm. WaRbington Seaman,

Oharles Hornbeck,
James Lamar Moore,
Henry t;ayre Orme, P. G. M., Charles Forrester,
Frederick Nye Panly,
Lewis Thorne,
Wm. Byron Scarborongh,
Hervey [,fodley,
Fred Lind Alles,
John Simpson Park,
Richard Thomas Mnliard,
Madison Townsend Owens,
Norton Filmore St<>ry,
Charles Edward Hotton.
CharleR Carroll Alien,
MASTER MASONS :

Ainsworth, Frank Kenley Bond, George Wesley
Olark, Lewie Daniel
Alexander, Edm'd Kimball Bonebrake, r.eorge Henry Clark, Oliver Perry
Allen, Dane Lorenzo
Boone, Blair Ford
Cobb, Fremont
Anderson, Charles J.
Boynton, Fred Wesley
Collins, Holdridge Ozro
Anllerson, Horace Phillip Bradbeer, James H
Cox, Will James
Arnold, Jesse Houston
Bradish, A.very Jackson
Cumpston, James
Anstm, Amos Meek
Braly, Arthur Hughes
Ounnlngham, Frank R
Bailey, Alfred Theodore
Braly, John H.i·de
Cnnnlngham, John Calvin
Baldwin, Cornelius Vanoy Bray, Arthur
Darling, Charles Edward
Baldwin, Osmer Wheeler Brink, John Edward
Darragh, Roberts
Baldwin, George Everett Brookman, Arthur
Davis, J~mes William
Bancroft, George Ress
Bryson, Oharles William
DeWitt, Andrew Jackson
Barnwell, Walker Galt
Bunje, Emil Theodore
Dickson, Clarence Bishop
Bartholomew, G. Shannon Burnett, Frank Wilbur
Dillon, John
BRwker, Walter King
Botcher , Robert
Dodge, Shailol' Calver
Bean, Frank Harry
Butler, James Mndison
lJoster, Sidney Johnson
Beck, Samuel James
Batter. Sidney Aleut
Dougherty, Thoe. Cadwal'r
Benz, William
Campbell, Charles
Drought, Robert
Bessing, Theo.Jor~
Oampbell, Edward Franklin Donham, George Fletcher
Bicknell, Fre<l'k Tliompson Campbell , John Mis
Dargin, Walter Olemeats
Bllicke, Albert Clay
Cass, Alonzo Beecher
Eckstrom, Albert Axel
Billington, Theophilus
Oasterlioe, Wm. McGuffey Ewing, James Stanley
Binford, Joseph Baker
Chandler, Harry
·F airchild, J oho Anthony
Bird, Benjamin Franklin
Chappel, Thomas Jefferson Field, Daniel Webster
Bixel, Anton
Chappelear, Henry Stewart Finlayson, Frank Graham
Blanchard, Silas
Ohristopher, John Francis Fiscus, Joseph

f

1895.J

To the Grand Lod,ge of California.

503

Forrester, Edmond Arnold Locke!, Louis
Rossell, Horace Marvin
Fortune, Eogene Wilson
Maddrlll, John William
Rutherford , John Dew
Francis, John Wilson
Mansfield, John Patrick
Sale, Howard Malcomb
Frost, Franklin Pierce . Manne!, Franklin F
8ams, Peter W
Gardner, Jsrail Wellington Marden, Henry William
Sargent, Edwin William
Gillespie, Matthew McGill Ma.rah, Frank
Savage, Stephen Decatnr
Gillespie, Samuel Smith
Marsh, Robert
Schaffer, Jacob, Jr.
Goehring, John George
Matthew, Winfield Soott
Schoder, Joseph
Oreyson, George Stephen ;McClnre, JoMeph Stewart Scriver, Robert McDonald
Hagan, William
Mcintosh, William P
Shaw, Looien
Haight, Will
McLean, Daniel Alexander Sherer, Henry Emanuel
Hamilton, Harley Erastus McQuirk, Mathew
Shriver, Levi Perry
Harpham, George Edwin l\ledler, John Abraham
Smith, Fred. Martin
Harrison, George Wright Mercerao, John D
Smith, Henry Ryerson
Hart, George
Merrill, George Whitney Spencer,JohnOharles Maeon
Hart, John Wicks
Merwin, Andrew Homer Sperry, Eli
Hasson, William Riley
Messmore, Frank Hiram Starr, Joseph Lee
Heinemann, Bernard Henry Michael•, Thomas Monson Stephens, Willinm Dennison
Henderson, William
Miles, Charles Sweeting
Stephens, William
Hopkins, Fred Beach
Miles, Nelson Appleton
Stovell, Thoma.s
Hoax, John Taylor
Millard, Spencer Gordon Strasburg, Edward
Humphreys, ChRB. Harkn's Millsap, Sylvester
Swift, Barnabas Ellis
Horibut, Edwin T, Monroe Moore, Frank Lester
Tate, Cyrus Francis Steel
Jacobsen, Christian Fred'k Murphy, Daniel
Thomas, Orion Theodore
Johnston, John Milton
Nance, Benjamin Franklin Thnreton, John Gilman
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Nauerth, Jacob
Tinker, William Wharton
Judson, Albert Goodblet
Newell, Henry Temple
Titos, Eugene Leonard
Judson, Edward S. M.
Off, John William Arnold Todd, Alonzo Lewis
Kelly, Richard Washington O'Melveny,Edward Harvey Tomeney, Peter Patrick
Kenny, Robert Wolfenden Parr, William Albert
Towne, Anson Coleman
Klobe, Charle•
Pascoe, Thoma•
Troheck, John Angost
Knott, William Sneed
Pattison, James H. Wilson:Trneworthy, John Weslie
Knbach, Christian John
Payne, James Woods
Turney, Albert
Knghen, David A
Pease, Sherman
Van Doren, John Suydam
Lamb, Willard
Peck, Daniel Gager
Vickrey, Ofteld Arthur
Lambie, William Thomas Petherlck, John
Walton, Charles Strong
Lane, Cornelius Joseph
Pfaffinger, Frank XRvier
Watson, George Samnel
Lanning, Samoel Willis
Phillips, Andrew
Webb, (ieorge Allred
Lansingh, Abram Angushs Piedmont, Louis
Webster, Stephen Merrett
Lanx, Carl, Jr.
Pierce, Edward Timothy
Weir, Oharles
Laws, William Henry
PlnmmP.r, Amos Weston
Wells, Guilford Wiley
Lawson, Lewie B
Powell, Francis Henry
Whitaker, David Stanton
Ledgewood, Newton Green Pogh, James
White, Charles Henry
Lee, Bradner Wells .
Rader, Frank
Whitson, Levi Henry
Lehman, Charles Joseph Rapp, William
Willard, Charles Dwight
Leonard, Horace FredP.riok Read, William Charles
Williams, George Henry
Lindley, Samuel Kingston Reid, James Arthur
Willman, Charles Unstave
Lindley, Walter
Rogers, Albert Olark
Wing, Horace B!lnjamin
Long, Charles H
Rommel, William
Woodward, Millard Fillmore
Love, George Pearson
Rozell, David Rightmire
Yoong, John Wlllilm-260.
Lowry, Frank Eugene

504

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

LAug. 1,

FELLOW CRAFT:

Haskell, Eugene Cradock-1.
ENTERED APPBENTIOES :

Clark, 1danrlce

Henderson, Andrew

Vandervoort, Jnlian W.a tkins-S.

RESTORED:

AFFILIATED:

Moore, James Lamar-1.

Kearney, Alfred Moore-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Alllson, Sidney Mortimer Long, Fred J
Hyatt, J oho O
Osman, Silas Oook
Kearney, Alfred Moore •

Palmer, Artbnr Hopkins
Swain, Artbnr Wllliam-7.

'lo the Grand Lo<lge of Oa.lifornia.

1895.]

505

Sharp, Craigle
Roganoamp,Geo.Washing'n Phelps, Orville Benedtct
Blight, George
Rafailovicb, Nicholas M
Isaac, Frederick Nevill11
Sullivan, Charles Welch
Ramsey, John Wilson
Johns, Zachariah David
Tbompeon,Bam'I Alexander
Reeves, John Milton
Lane, Alpheos Wilboor
Trewhitt, Wayne Douglas
Lens, Lodewyk Clemens Ritchie, Isaac Andrew
Webster, Caseins Monroe
Robinaon, Jamee Shaw
Martin, Joseph George
Sensabaugh, John Samuel Wendling, George Xavier
McCord, William P
Wl111ame, J oseph Franklin
McJunkin, Joseph Talbot Sharp, Benjamin V
-SS.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

WITHDRAWN:

Myers, Robert Holty-1.

Wilson, Newton-I.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Barrows, Henry Dwight
Olark, Gillis Archibald
Fitch, Ezra
Greenwood, Alfred

Kelsey, Frederick Willis
Moore, Jamee Lamar
Meyer, Abrabam
Preston, Isaac Hubbard

Ready, Rossell Wilbert
Sutch, Wendell Hamilton
Willhartitz, Adolpho-11.

MADERA LODGE, No. 280.

DIED:

Boebyehell,Edw'd Ohrietian
Bowles, Ralph Amaea

Brodtbeck, Otto

Madera, Madera Connt.y.

Butler, William-4.

Stated Meeti11g1, Saturday oj or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OF.FICERS1 -

HANFORD LODGE, No. 279.

Andrew Lee Speegle, Senior Deacon,
William Charles Ring, Master,
Hartwell Cocke Borden, Junior Deacon,
Elmer Henry Cox, S 1111ior Warden,
Francis Richard Brown, Ma:rah.al,
Thomas Love, Junior Warden,
David Bowen McFaul, l Steward.I
Return Roberts, 7'-easurer,
'
f
Henry Giles,
John McComb, Secretary,
- - - - - - , Tyler.

Hanf'ord, Kine• Connty,

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:et succeeding Full Moon.
OFFIVERSt

Brice~o Amendez Faeaett, Mall,er,

Alvine Ray Clary, S enior Deacon,
Orra Mell Lacey, Junior Deacon,
Francie Cunningham, Senior Warden,
Reuben Edward Starkweather, J. Warden, Sanford Booker, Marsh.al,
John Welby Payton l
John Henry Melone, TreaBUrt1r,
Adolphus Goat's Dollenmayer, Seoretary, Arthnr Dale King, ' f 8re1JJardl!,
'
Joehna Benadom, zy1er.
Carlos Shelton Linsley, Oh.aplain,
Paat .Maaten t

James Curtiss Ensign,
William Henry Camp,
Francie Algene Blakeley, Amoe Melzar Ayers,
Robert William Musgrave,

Thomas J eft'ereon McQuiddy,
Adolphus Gost'v Dollenmayer.

John Wellesley Watkins.

MASTER MASONS :

Pareons, George Gorton
Giannini, Frank
Arondal, Ellsworth
Pulsifer, Thomae Alonzo
Heineberger, Jacob
Badger, Charles Taintor
Hessler, Louis John Baptist Rosenthal, Nathan
Bower@, George Allen
Schmitz, John William
Child,Benjamin Wainwright Houston, Jamee
Hooter,Willie Wilkin Wood Skagg@, Allen Alexander
Collyer, Jamee O
Stahl, William
Logan, Alexander
Danlton, John Francie
Wilson, William Blayney
Maze, William Oamel
Davie, William Elsworth
Wright, Alonzo
Dickenson, Jamee Johnson McKee, J ohn
Yoong, Joseph Walter-'1.
Myer, Isaac
Dwyer, John
Flint, William Read
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

MASTER MASONS:

Ohrleman, Archibald Yell
Barton, Herman Dany
Beckwith, John R. De Witt Clayton, John Price
Bingham, Charles Franklin Olow, Borton Roderick
Cooper, Calvin Savage
Brown, Obarles Rose
Crigler, John Christopher
Bntler, Charles Orville
Crowell, Abner Bnel
Butler, Rodolph Rey
ChiUenden, Lyman Bylves'r Deardorlf, Bamnel Farlow

Paat Maaten t

Jamee M Dunlap,

Edwin Moore,
William Charles Ring,

Barnett, John Robert
Dillon, Thomas Foller
Dopkins, Joseph Henry
Donham, Lewie O
Goodrich, George Ed win
B enderson, Charles Udny
H icks, Stephen Bright
Hobler, Charles Jamee

Hamilton, George Waehlngton-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Gargetlne, Pierre

McDonald, Alexander Monroe

McDonald, Donald Jamee-3.

DIED:

Donham, Flaven Andereon-1.

45

506

Returns of the Subordinate LO<lges

[Aug. 1,

1895.J

To the Grand Lodge of California.

507

MASTER MASONS:

MOUNT SHASTA LODGE, No. 281.
Ander110n, Sha•ta Count;:v.

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or nnt preceding Fu.ll Moon.
Oli'li'ICJERS1

James Franklin Bedford, Master,
Adolph Bystle, Sen. DeacOfl,
Sherman Tecomseb White, Sen. Warden, Theodore Pleiscb Jun. .Deacon
Devine Zachariah Hawkins, Jun. Warden, Stephen Davis D~mmon Marahal
John FranKlin Bedford, Treaaurer,
Tbadd's Wilton H.Sban~ban, l '
Alvin Oozier, Secrlllary,
Adam Fickas,
r Btewarda,
James Alexander Robertson, 7Yl8r.

Aby, Charles William
Chase, Ernest Samuel
Failing, J oho Sanford
Hardy, Eugene Atwood

Lokey, Robert
Parsons, Deng• Yoakin
Read, Joseph Lilbarn

· Schnelle, Louis Willard
Short, John Rice
Voluntine, John Chapman.
-:11.

FELLOW ORAPT :

WITHDRAWN :

Van Bibber, Henry-1.

Soott, George Washington -I.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Lynn, William Leveretts-1.

Paat !ll&Btera a

Alvin Dozier,
Albert Ferdinand Smith,

James Franklin Bedford,
Tbaqdene Wilton H. Bha11aban,

John Wesley Harvey.

MASTER MASONS:

Bedford, James Madison
Beecher, James Harvey
Bnrba11k, Joseph Parker
DalBB, George Benson
Freeland, William Abram
Garroutte, James Smith

Natlon,.l City, San Dlejl'o Coantv.

Hamline, Charles Grant
Harvey, William Alon~o
MoNeil\, William
Newton, Orrin Lathrop
Ogborn, Jetrerson Davis
Reynolds, Lincoln 0

Stock, Andrew JackRon
Htrange, Morris
Strong, Charles Grant
Wood, Walter Nutler
Ziglar, Jetrerson Davis-30.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE S:

Hawkins, George Edgar

Hawkins, John Timothy

WITHD~AWN:

SOUTH WEST LODGE, No. 283.

Tyler, John Wesley-3.

Stated Meeti1'gs, Wednesday o.f or nea:t preceding Fu.ll Moon.
OFFICERS•

Edson .A Hornbeck, Master,
Frank Angntrtus Kimball, Sen. .Deacon,
Gonzola Edward Buxton, Ben. Warden, William Eggleston, Junior .Deaoon,
Walter James Henderson, Jun. Warden, Samuel Watts Smith, Mar11hal,
Phineas Drew Vu.ngban, 7T8asurer,
Jerry O'Connell,
j Stewarda
Albert Henry Jllatthiessen, Seareta.ry,
Joseph Howe Kincaid, 1
'
Herbert Thomas Risdon, Chaplain,
Niels Pete r Ronland, Tyler.

SUtiPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Newton, Edwin Eugene-1.

Wells, Aar11p-l.

Pa•t Masteru

Phineas Drew Vaughan,
Frank Augustus Kimball,

George Little Kimball,

Augustus Brooks Kimball.

MASTER MASONS :

OALLAY OMI LODGE, No. 282.
llliddleto'WD , Lake Count;:v.

Seated Meetings, Friday next preceding Full M~.

Atkins, Willington B
Henninger, Joh'
Stearns, James Leray
Beachboard, George Kelly Ivers, John
Stebbins, George Henry
Beermaker, George Wilson McHenry, Samuel
Ward, Martin Luther
Copeland, Heman
McNeil!, Joseph Bowers
Williamson, George
Evans, William G
Palmer, Theodore Romeyne Worster, Charles Henry
ijancock, George Hughes Perry, Robert Dryer
Yenawine,George Lafayette
Henderson, David
Reed, Franklin P ierce
-3,,

OPFICERS1

George Arthur Sacry, Ma.Mer,
Elmer Elsworth Noyes, Sell. Warden,
William Orson Green, Junior Warden,
Charles Henry Tully, Treasurer,
John Bynum Preble, SecreU1rJJ,
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

FELLOW ORAFT:

James Parrish, Senior .Deaoon,
Pliny Wilford Reed, Jur&ior .Deacon,
Wellman Jenness Bailey, Marshal,
Andrew Rocca, l Slewarda
John Schwartz, r
'
John Reinlke, Tyler.

Paat Maatera 1

Andrew Rocca,
W~llman Jenness Bailey,

James Parrish,

George Arthur Sacry.

Glover, Lycnrges Solon-1.
ENTERED APPRENTIOE B:

Blanford, George Charles

Lamar, Richard David
RESTORED:

Ward, Marlin Luther--1.

Patterson, He.rry James-3.

508

Returns of the Suhordinaie Lodge8

[Ang. 1,

1895.]

To the Grand, Lodge of OaUf<>rni.a.

509

Paat ltla•tera:

TYRIAN LODGE, No. 284.

John Charles Carrier,
Lorenzo Darrel! Murphy,

John Borton Tyas,
Lawrence H Meads,

Dunnl&'&n, Yolo County.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or n~t pre~ing Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Thomas Otto Arens, Ma.ster,
James :Monroe Lillie, Senter Deacon,
Levi Conover Lane, Senior Warden,
Asa Levi Lane, Junior Deacon,
William TRathbnn, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - , Marshal,
John Higham, D-ea.sur,,.,
Phillip Thomas Langenonr. l Ste
ds
Daniel Richard Nason, Secretary,
Richard Amos,
f war '
Charles Oscar Oopp, 'l'yler.
Paat .Mastera 1

Joseph Henry Thorp,
I..evi Conover Lane,

Hagh Hiram· sea~on,
James :Monroe Llllie,

Nehemiah Griffith Millman.

MASTER MASONS :

Fisk, Rufoe
Gibson, George Lafayette
Jones, Harry Edward
Kento.n, Thomas
Knight, 'Frederick

Smith, Charles Emory
Victors, Henry
Worely, Robert Oscar
· WrigM, David Greeo-28.

.MoOonnell, Gibson
M:cFaddin, Radin V.
McPherson, Duncan
Patrlqnio, Laban 8
Pinkerton, William
FELLOW CRAFTS :

Racker, Benjamin Franklin-2.

Haston, John Robert
WITHDRAWN:

DIED:

Wilson, George Doraey-1.

Clark, John Flctoher-1.

MASTER MASONS:

Aacker, Robert Mlller
DuncalI, Walter
Bradon, John M
M:cCalloap;h, Frank F.
Brandenburg, Onarles Frit,z Maap;er, Samuel William
Brown, Myron Calvert
Sellman, Geo. Washington
Ohamberlain, Mark D
Smith, William Franklin
Clark, Laois McCullongh
Still', Edward Lawrence

Stiff, Wilford
Tinney, Alexander
Wallace, James
West, William Henry
Woodard, Edward Durgan
-29.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Carroll, John

Langenour, Henry Watklns-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Doane, Lafayette William-1.

PASO ROBLES LODGE, No. 286.
Paso Robles, San Lula Oblapo County.

Stated M~etinp11, Wednesday of or n~ auccuding Full Moon.
OFFICKR!91

Frank Daniel Frost, Ma.sf.er,
John Franklin West, Senior Deaoon,
John Kelshaw, Senior Warden,
Cbarlqf James Trussler, .Junior Deacon,
Charles Minor Steinbeck, JunWf' Warden, Alfred 'ltoger Booth, Marehal,
Edwin Ladner, 7Tea.Burer,
James Bu~hanal! Anthony• ~ Stewarde,
Vandiver Reid Elliott, Secreta1"1J,
Conrad Se1deman,
John Roberta, 'lyl.er.
Past Maatera:

SAN MIGUEL LODGE, No. 285.
San Ml&"uel, San Lula Obhpo County.

Stated Meetings. Saturdn.y of or ~zt aucceeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Lorenzo Dorrell Morphy, Master,
Edwin McFaddin, Sen·i.or Deacon,
John Detlift' Seaman, Ben·i.or Warden,
John Thompson, Junior Dea.con,
Nehemiah Griffith Millman, Jun. Warden, Edwin Taylor, Marshal,
Edwin White Oole, fre"mrer,
Joha Phillips Courter, l Sf.e
d
Charles Joel Whisman, Beareta.ry,
George H Ranschert, f
war 8'
Gerald Noel DonglaSB, 'l'yler.

Thaddens Sherman,
John George Schroeder,

Alfred Roger Booth,

James Hargis Glass.

MASTER MASONS:

Abernethy, Edward
Adams, George Russell
Barber, Richard
Barnes, William
Bennett, Clilford Warren
Bennett, Edwin Montg'y
Blackburn, Daniel Drew
Oooney, Edward
Elliott, Charles Fremont
Eppinger, Herman
Findley, James Henry

Garren, James Washington Schroeder, Arthnr Vanca'n
Gerst, Michael
Scott, John
Glassman, Peter Charles Shackelford, Rieb. Matthew
Griffith, Archer 0
Speyer, David
Griswold, Eugene Carlton Steele, Robert Conley
Hays, James
Steinbeck, John Ernest
Jameson, Thomas Charles Stone, Marena Akin Victor
Kilsbaw, Frederick Wm. Tidrow,Josepb
McDonald, Hugh
Von Bohriltz, Isaac Miles
Nelson, Andrew
Williams, Samnel Anthony
Pierce, Benjamin Bowlin
- 4.6.

510

Returns of the Subordinate L<><lgea

[Aug. 1,

1895.]

To the (ft-and Lodge of Oalijornia.

RESTORED:

Paet Maateras

Hays, James-I.

John Kessington Bartholomew,
John Debos Sharp Taylor,

WITBDRA.W~:

Howe, William B

Stowell, Eugene Alexander

Wilson, Stephen Britton-S,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Elliott, Nathan
Freeman, John Lamb

.. 511

Reid, Thomas
Smith, Edwin

Spurrier, George Frederic
Tillinghast, Thomas Charles
-6.

.ijenry Jason Oook. .

Enoch Everette Scott,

MASTER MA.SONS:

Fisher, Horace Winton
McDermott, James
Bnmmelsberg, Herman

Alexander, Allen
Cross, William Henry
Dollarhide, Galen Marion

Sommerville, Samuel Moir
Sutton, Joseph .A.mos
Withoft, Theodore]Wllliam
-~o.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Phillips, Andrew.Jackson:-2.

Cook, Hiram B

WITHDRA.WN :

Scott, George Francheville-2 .

De Lappe, Russell

WINNEDU MAH LODGE, No. 287.
Blahop, Inyo County.

StaUd Meetinga, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

ELSINORE LODGE, No. 289.

OFFlCERSa

Elatnore, Rtveralde County.

John Henry Stontenboroogh, Maeter,
John Leonidas Collins, ~en. Deacon,
Wilfred William Watterson, S. Warden, William Watterson, Junior Deacon,
William McDonald (of Bishop), J. Ward., Charles Hicks Parsons, Marahal,
Asher Cohn, 1reaeurer,
Mathias Kemply Vaaey, l Btfl'!Dards,
Pleasant Arthur Chalfant, Secretary,
Johl.I Clarke,
f
George Longley, '.IYler.

Stated Meetings, B!f~urday of or ne:r:t preceding Ful,l Moon.
OFFICERS1

Paat Maatera1

Albert Oscar Collins,

Robert Love,

John Henry Stontenborongh.

MASTER MA.SONS:

Bertrand, Oliver
Clarke, George Marsh
Fol'd, Robert Wentworth
Freeman, Alex. Cassiday
George, William Harris
James, Leonidas ..4

'Jones, James
Mitchell, William Hart
Jones, John Edward
Olds, David
Kilpatrick, A.lex'r Sanders'n O'Neai, Robert
McDonald, William
Shaw, Frank
:McGee, John Simpson
Zimmerman,John Wm.Loo is
FELLOW ORA.FT:

29.

Shaw, Harry-1.

Charles Sumner Merrifield, Master,
Eben Middleton Clewitt, Senior Deacon,
Oliver Stewari Ch~rk,Senior Warden,
Cornelio\Verma.son, Juni,or Deaaon,
Hadley Benson Johnson, Junior Warden, - - - - - - , Marahal,
Gilman Wise Bricker, Treaaurer,
- - - - - - . l ste:uiard11,
----~,f
Peter Wall, Beare~,
Joseph Greenia, .7}/l.er.
P;.at Mastera 1

William Erskine Sloan,

James Francis Jopes,

Robert Wilkinson Bollen.

MA.STER MASONS :

Ai;istin, Fayette
Coombs, George Arlington
Gill, LllJ'ayette

Jeft'ers, Henry
Martin, Lewis

Tibbitt, John Franklin
Timmis, John-18.

WITHDRA.WN:

Rood, John Thompaon-1.

MAXWEL L LODGE, No. 288.

SUNSET LODGE, No. 290.

Maxwell, Cola- County.

Eaat Loa An,eelea, Loa Anirele• County.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or ne:d succeeding Full M0011.
OFFICERS•

Henry Jason Cook, Alaster,
Jo.ho Kessington Bartholomew, S.Deaoon,
Lycurgus Jerome Brown, 8en. Warden, Christopher Colnrnbns Felts, J. Deacon,
John Deboe Sharp Taylor, Jun. Warden, Augnst Charle~ Snyder, ,lfarNial,
George Washington Hastings, .7hraaurei-, John Franklin Durham, I StetOaras,
Enoch Evereite SooU, Secretary,
Thomas Benton McDow, I
John :Monroe Toll, .7}/ler.

StaUd Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Frank Putnam Flint, Master,
Edward Lee St.ephens, Seni01·Warde11,
Frank Rommar Willis, Junior Wardm,
Charles :Martin Burr, TrealUl"er,
Charles Nelson Earl, Secrelary,
George Ellery Dye, Ohaplatn,

Alva P Repfro, Senior Deaoon,
Louis Prince Oolletie, Junior Deacon,
Frederick Williams Tyl~r, Marlhal,
Andrew Beyrle, l &etDarr»,
Joseph Herbert, f
August Aherns, ~!er.

512

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1.o the Grand Lodge of California.

1895.J

513

Past Mastera•
Paat Mastera:

Charles Ira Mcintyre,
William Henry Perry,

Wiliiam Hurd White,
Hampens Victor Bard,

Charles Samuel Bradford,
John Willard McEvers.

Frank Ellwell Davie,
David Wallace Mott,
Wm. Crawford Richmond, Mack Jamee,
Nathan Weston Blanchard,
Joseph Rick Haugh,

Charles Wesley Metcalf,
Gilbert Elisha Webb.

MASTER MASONS:

MASTER MASONS:

Phillips, Frank Elton
Berwick, John Steck
Atherton, Nelson
Aylsworth, George Webb Hogancamp, Robt. Thomae Ragan, Nathaniel Richards
Reichard, Jacob
Hollis, George Henry
Baer, Henry Simon
Sanborn, Wheelock Kimball
Blackman, Joline Lucine Horner, John
Seekatz, George Phillip
Ihms, Edward Henry
Brown, Joseph Edgar
Langdon, Fred Sylvester Shorb,Orrle Ashley Andrew
Brown, William Thomas
Browning, Nathan'! Cannon Lanphar, William Vaughan Shultis, Jordan
Stead, Benson, Jr.
Campbell,Henry Cha'pneys Ling, Robert Angnstus
Lyttle, William Bnrneide Teel, Charles Adelbert
Chaney, Edward Watson
Thompson, Wm. Alexander
Martin, David
Clark, Edgar Willard
M.oKenna, Patrick Angust'e Tibbetts, Jamee Madison
Conklin, Hiram Hedges
Timberlake, John .Jamee
Damerel, Charles William Mink, Fred Scott
Niemeyer, William Henry Tockler, Joseph Jule
Drake, Henry Gardner
Trahn, Peter N.
Drakenfeld,George Barth'w Ottareon, Earl F J
Wellman, Fellis Kenton
Palmer, Thomas Sharpe
Eason, Charles Horace
White, Sylvanue-67.
Paul, John Rink
Fenton, Jamee Averil
Habel, George Henry

Hardison, Wallac.e Libby Richardaon, William Tenney
Addison, George
Riley, West
Jenkins, Samuel Rogers
Barnes, Newton
Chamberlain, Elmer Elle'th Kenney, Benjamin Franklin Salathe, Frederick
Scott, William Benjamin
Keser, Lonie
Crane, John Briggs
Langstaff, Lindley Thomas Seay, Robert B
Davie, Jamee Amos
Slocum, Thomae Arnold
Lanius, Phillip
Fagan, Michael
Taylor, Casper
McCray, Morris Lynn
Foulks, Irving
Graham, Samuel Camden Mcintosh, George Robert Vance, Thomae Logan
Warring, Isaac Hodson
Gnibereon, Joseph Warner Moultrie, William Major
Wilson, John
Gnibereon, Samuel Allen Orcutt, John Hall
Wiser, Frank Alfred-52.
Peyton, Henry E
Hardison, Lewis Arthur
Hardison, Lowell Mason

FELLOW ORAFT :

RESTORED:

Flint, Motley Hoghee-1.

Shoemaker, Elisha T-1.

MASTER MABON :

Peckham, Stephen F-1.
FELLOW ORAFT:

RESTORED:

Barnes, Louis Lee-1.

Gniberson, Joseph Warner-1.
WITHDRAWN:

DIED:

WITHDRAWN:

Erdman, .John Martin-I.

Tinker, William Wharton-2.

Howe, F·rederiok Beniah

Peckham, Stephen F-2.

Cairns, Thomas MoCnllongh

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Clarke, Joseph Morrison
Crowley, Benjamin Franklin

Mitchell, William Daniel
Petter, Charles Edwin

Shoemaker, Elisha T
Vanorman, Oliver-6.

DIED:

Moore, Oliver Alonzo

Shoemaker, Elisha T

White, Josiah Johnson-8.

LOS GATOS LODGE, No. 292.
Loa Gatos, Santa Clara County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:r:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 291.
Santa Paula. Ventura County.

Stated Meetings, 'Fhuraday of or ne:r:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Norman Oliver Say, Sen. Deacon,
Edwin Virden, Master,
Charles Nelson Baker, Junior Deacon,
William '.I'homae :McFie, Sen. Warden,
Joseph Rick Ha.ngh, Marsha],,
Dan Gregg Gailey, Junior Warden,
l Stetoarda
Erastus Ransom,
Charles Henry M.cKevett, Treasurer,
'
Leonard White Corbett, f
Jamee Burrows Titus, Secretary,
J oho Fansler, 7lf!er.

Frank Mason Jackson, Ma8ler,
Arthur Berryman, Senior Wa1·den,
Hngh Rose Roberts, Juntor Warden,
Charles Franklin Scammon, Tr-ea.surer,
John Edward Ellis, Secretary,
Charles Mangus Decker, Ohaplaln,

George Henry Ada.ms, Senior Deacon,
Perry Mack Maun, Junior Deacon,
William Sporleder, Marahal,
George Randolph Emerson, l stewards
'
f
Lonie Sund,
Samuel Syverson, Tyler.

Past Masteru

Dallas Jones Farley,
William Jones,
Frank Wesley Knowles,

46

George Lander,
Lewis Clinton Trailer,

Moses Franklin Blank,
Robert PeBris Gober.

514

Retu'l"r/JJ of the Subordinate Lod{/es

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lod{/e of Oalifornia.

1895.]

515

MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, Anton
Arthnr, James Gordon
Bennett, Charles William
Bollard, Sewell Francis
Cole, Laurens A
Cobke, Bates Millard
Curtiss, Merritt 0
Dow, Edwin Elam
Harris, William Austin
Barrub, William Busby
Hatch, Henry
Holden, Charles W
Hunter, Thomas
Hutchins, Samuel
Hutchinson, Robert Lee
Jack, Elias Walter

Johnson, William Oscar
Perrin, Harry
Kent, Sherman
Potter, Eber Ward
Knight, John March
Rice, John Austin
Knowles, Fred
Roberts, Douglas J
Latham, Allen Roscoe
Robertson, Richard Felix
Lawrence, George Alfred Sackett, Jacob
Sage, Lewis Alvin
Lord, Samuel Leotius
Lyndon, James Hardie
Sams, Abram Lash
Lyndon, John Weldon·
Tait, Magnus
Tisdale, William De Witt
Mack, William L
Malpas, Alfred
Wilder, Alphonso Eli
Maxwell, Joseph Pilson
Wilder, Daniel Webster
McMurtry, Geo. Sherman Wilder, Notia Irwing
Merriam, Horace Arnold Wilson, James Henry
Merriam, Cassius Marcellus Yocco, Edward Clemente
Moore, Samuel Grant
-66.

WITHDRAWN:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Stetson, Charles Riley-I.

TRAVER LODGE, No. 294.
Traver, Tulare County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Joseph Davis Pillsbury, Master,
Jasper Newton Bowhay, Senior Deaoon,
Robberson Jefferson King, Sen. Warden, David Theodore Cook, Junior Deacon,
Peter Erich Lndvigsen, Junior Warden, Albert Miller Mugler, Marshal,
Nelson Wallace Williams, t Ste
ds
Emory Barris, Treasvrer,
Siegmund Wolff, Becret(Uy,
.Allen Ensley McClannahan, r war '
Martin Sandy Stirewalt, 1y11Jr.
David Borris, Ohaplain,
Past Masters•

David Borris,

Jasper Newton Bowhay,

Lyman Brown Ruggles.

MASTER MASONS :

Groom, Joseph Jeremiah-I.
Agee, James Newton
Cnrschman, George

Golden, John, Sr.
Nelson, William Dennis

Richardson, Henry Thomas
Young, John Solomon-19.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

AFFILIATED :

Hardin, James Henry-I.

Ruggles, f,yman Brown-I.
RESTORED:

ORANGE GROVE LODGE, No. 293.

Golden, John Senior-I.

Orange, Oran11re County.
WITHDRAWN:

Stated Meetings, Pueaday of or ne:i:t preuding Full Moon.

Ruggles, Lyman Brown

Terrill, John Byron-2.

OFFICERH1

William Smalley, Master,
William Tandy Bosh, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Killefer, Senior Warden,
George Hunt Bryan, Junfor Deaoon,
Johnty Purcell Boring, Junior Warden, Charles Baker, Marshal,
James Fullerton, Treamrer,
Walter Maxwell Scott, j Stewards,
George Warren Weeks, Secretary,
Allen Jefferson Wood, 1
Isaac Lee Collins, Tyrer.

MOUNT JACKSON LODGE, No. 295.
Guerneville, Sonoma County,

Past Masters:

Isaac Lee Collins,
George Warren Weeks,
Boring, Washington Marion
Field, James

James Fullerton,

William Bell Wood.

Stated Meetings, Satu_rday of or ne:i:t preceding !J'ull Moon.

MASTER MASONS :

Hall, James Hedges
Leefeld, Otto H

Mallory, Charles Perrin-17.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Borke, Orion Harry-1.

Arnold, Jesse Houston-I.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Small, Henry Kimball-I.

OFFICERS:

Charles Martin Prosek, Mu.Bier,
Henry West Ungewitter, Senior ])ea.con,
Jacob Joost, Junior DeCUJOn,
James Reade Watson, Senior Warden,
Albert Pettis Mosely, Junior Warden,
Soren Christian Jansen, Mar1hal,
Oliver Westcott, Treamrer,
Philip Henry Snow t Stew
John Jefferson Keaton, Secrela'l'1J,
Samuel Varner,
'r ards,
William Van Buren Cole, Ty11Jr.
Past Mastera 1

Andrew Jewell,

James Reade Watson,

Charles Martin Proaek.

516

Returns of the Subordinate Loa,ges

[Aug. 1,

MA.STER MA.SONS:

Rien, Samuel
Hraea, John
Austin, Da vld Lee
Rnle, William Johnson
King, William
Austin, John Overton
Rombek, William John
Baldwin,James MoLaaghlln King, William Duncan
McDonald, James Vincent Schindler, George
Bohn, Frederick
Springer, David
McPeak, Anthony
Cataldi, Dominico
Thompson, Wm. Huntoon
lllumay, William
Conn, William John
Mnrphy,Benjamin Franklin Wallad, Ignaz
De (Jariey, Joseph
Watson, Henry H11gh
Patton, John
Ferris, John Milton
Ridenhour, Lewie Edward Watson, Marvin Albert
Florence, Marshall
Frasure, Augustus Ripley Ridenhour, Lewis Wilson Wright, Charles Theodore
--43.
Gilliam, David Taylor
FELLOW CRAFTS :

Herman, William George

1895.]

To the Grand Lo<lge of California.

Vergon,Jam es
MaoDougall, John Calven Seal, John Percy
Villa, Frank Jerome
Shepard, William Milton
Martin, Joseph
Walker, Frank Lawrence
Siddons, Robert
Marvio, Charles Arthur
Spafford, Adelbert Thomas Winsby, Enoch
llleklensek, John
Wood, Royal A, Jr.
JCiilspaugh,Alan. Gillespie Stead, Jamee Milton
Wetzel, William Yost
Stevens, Edwin R
Mulford, Hiram Samuel
Tennyeon,WilliRmA.ogustus Wiard, Myron W
Pedder, Jam~s Nagle
Williams, William Johu
Prien, Henry Fred'k John Thomas, Richard A
Wilson, William
Timken, Henry
Rupp, David Franklin
Wright, Orlando S-74.,
Torner, Abner M
Bobmidt, Frank
Scovill, Samuel Nathan
FELLOW ORAFTB :

Kaidel, John Theodore

Davis, William Jnetioe

Miller, James Zering-2.

MoKenzie, Bernard Wrlght-3.

ENTERED APPRENTIC E :

De Groot, Walter Irving-I.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Louge, William-2.

Kendall, George

517

WITHDRAW N:

Brown, William Valentine

McKecknie, Charles H

Welisch, Theodore- 3.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Tomkins, William Freeman-2 .

Howard; Edward Wm. Stephen
DIED :

Harris, John Richard-1.

SILVER GATE LODGE, No. 296.
San Dle&'O, San Dle&'O Connty.

Stakd M~eting1, /frat Friday in Mch month.
OFFIOER 81

James Welle, Senior Deacon,
Eugene Daney, Master,
Alonzo William Smenner,Se niorWarden , Per-cy H Easton, Junior Deacon,
Stephen HoratioOlm eted,Junior Warden, Thomas Jefferson Capps, Marshal,
William Albert Hawkins, t Sletaarda,
Herman Welisch, Treaaurl!I',
Samuel Stone Knowles, f
Jamee Smith Clark, &aretary,
Alonzo Eugene Dodson, Ohaplain,
Thomas Goodwin Jefferis (of Sat& DUgo Lodge, No. 36), '.ZYler.
Past Masters 1

James Wells,
Jamee Smith Clark,

Thomas Jefferson Capps,
Alonzo Eugene Dodson,

John Manning,
John G Dodge.

MASTER MASONS :

Hammack, Daniel Marlon
Bennett, James Peterman Craig, Joseph
Creelman,L awrenceAo g'us Hardy, Charles Saunders
Benoit, Victor
Harry, Sidney Cortie
Davis, Frank Eugene
Bogue, Charles Cook
Bartwicksen, Frederick
Dobbins, John Henry
Bosley, George W
Ehrmao, Henry Stephens Hoggins, Johnstone White
Bnck, Adam
Ingram, William Baker
Escher, John Frederick
Burgoyne, Charles A
Johnstone, Jamee Simpson
Buskirk, Marshall De Wain Fosgate, Charles 0
Keith, Aylmer Dennison
Gearn, George 0
Capps, Edwin Morrie
Carey, George Washington Goldthwait, Samuel Tarbox Long, Charles Douglas
Lyke, Charles William
Griffith, Ferdinand W
Oonro,Y, Joha

DUNSM illR LODGE , No. 297.
Dnnamnlr , Slakfyoa County.

Stated M eetinga, third Thursday in MCh month.
OFFICER St

George Howard Ingham, Senior Deacon,
John Dnnoan <Jnmmings, Master,
Harry Lincoln Walthers, Senior Warden, John Milton Campbell, Junior JJeacon,
Dennis Freel, Marlha.l,
James Robertshaw, ,Tunior Warden,
a8
Francis Thomas Mathews, t Ste
Benjamin Marvin Gill, Treasurer,
war '
f
Fred Lucian Mallory,
William Baylor Roberts, Seoretary,
Joaeph Thompson, fyler.
William Cashman Gri;.y, Oliaplain,
Paat Maaters s

William Baylor Roberts,

George Howard Ingham,

John Duncan Cummings.

MASTER MA.SONS:

Colver, .Alexander Eugene
Engwicht, George
Fairbanks, George Bacon

George, Ambrose Franklin
Kenyon, Arthnr Douglas

/

O'Keif, Patriok Henry
Van FoBBen, Levl-19.

Ret,urns of the Sub<mJi,nate Lodges

518

[Aug: 1,

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornla.
Paat .Ma•tera 1

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Wiley Hndelaton Trogden,
Dennie Willey Herrington,

Sheafor, Jacob Jasper-I.
WITHDRAWN:

Leland, Willard Josiah-2.

Farmer, Frederick Bertrand

James Allen Shoemaker,
James Robert Shield~,

William Delos Winslow.

MASTER MASONS :

Alden, Edward Henry
Alderman, Fred Alton
Arnold, Jamee Madison
Baker, Edward James
Boynton, Byron F888ett
Chapman, Aid de Lyon
Denker, William Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Poor, Joseph-2.

Brown, Augustne Frauk

519

DIED:

Jenks, Alfred-1.

Hirsch, Olemene
Dennett, Charles Edwin
Hoek, William DuRelle
Dodson, Shelby Martin
Offield, Jamee Washington
Dunn, Frank
Offield, Lorenzo Adolphus
Fowler, Elias Barzillai
Shields, Daniel Huber
Galrand, Louie
Gruwell, Melvin Lawrence Smith, Henry Kendall
Stanley, Edw'd Payeon-35.
Hanscom, James Duane

FELLOW OBA.FT :

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Roll, J ohn-1.

Pfister, Henry Adolph-1.
DIED:

MOKELUMNE HILL LODGl!l, No. 298.

Clinkenbeard, Kinzea Btone-1,

.lllokelnmne Hill. Calaveras County,

Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Louis Hexter, Senf.or JJeacon,
Fraucie Henry Day, Master,
Charles Myron Bnrleson, Senior Warden, Joseph Del Orta, Junior Deacon,
Cbules Eugene Day, Marth.al,
John Wilhelm Meyer, Junim' Warden,
John Champion, l Stewarda
Thomas Peters, 77-eaaurer,
'
John Gneooo, f
Samuel Louis Davidson, Secretary,
Caesar Jenning, Tyler.

REDLANDS LODGE, No. 800.
. RedlandM, San Bernardino County.

Seaud Meetings, first Monday in each month.

Past llla•ter•:

Francis Henry Day,

Jamee Megaw,
Thomas PeterB,

Charles Eugene Day.

MASTER MASONS:

Bowden, Leonard Steven
Brackett, George
Dunston, Thomae
Elias, Ed ward
Fairchild, Daniel

Fisher, Ely Christman
Jenkins, Jabez
Moore, John
Mnrray, Henry Gurdon

Regan, James Ambrose
Sterling, John Henry
Shnte, John William
Wilson, Thomae Alexander

-26.

OFFICERSt

Wilbur Newton Chamberlin, Miuter,
George Hyde Kelsey, Senior WardBn,
Albert Edwin Taylor, Junior Warden,
Frank Pierce Meserve, 7reamrer,
Clement .A Brown, &cretary,

- - - - , Ohapla(n,

Jacob John Sneee, &mim' Deaoon,
J oho William Edwards, Junior Deacon,
Jamee Albert Stone, Marahal,
d
j St
Ira :Millard Hough,
Francis George Wyman, 1 ewar 1 '
Thomae Benton Reeder, Tyler.

.Pait .Maatera 1

LIBERTY LODGE, No. 299.
Santa. Clara, Santa Clara County.
S~ated Meetings,

Saturday of or next preuding Full Moon.
OFFICERSt

William Anderson Shields, Benfer Deaoon,
Jamee Robert Shields, Moller,
Harry Lee Williama, Junior Deacon,
Emil George Hirsch, ~iorWarden,
John Cameron Morrison, Junior Warden, William Deloe Winslow, Marshal,
. :Melville Sherwood Bowdish, l Stewards
Albert Harrie, Treasurer,
'
Benjamin Thomae Stinson, f
Edward Ohase, BecrBl.ary,
James Allen Shoemaker, Tyler.
Freeman Foster Percival, Ohaplain,

Frank Pierce Meserve,
Jamee Albert Stone,
Oharles H Hobart,

Jamee Frederick Drake,
William Craig,
Baisey Warren Allen,

David IJ Wiae,
William Fowler,
Clement .A Brown.

MASTER MASONS :

Balley, Oharles Frederick Cook, William Omar
Cottrell, Joseph L
Belle, William Ambroee.i
Crafts, George Herbert
Birch, Jamee
Oraig, Scipio
Bledsoe, Howard
Boley, Eldridge Mountford Dean, Chaancey Theodore
Deck, Lewis
Brown, Charles Milton
Diss, John Wallace Fox
Brown, Frank Elwood
Oantrell, David Gooding Easter, John Day
Eaton, Clement Hand
Olarke, William Sibley

Elliott, John
Fowler, Frank L
Gaylord, Case
Gaylord, Clinton Gilbert
Hart, Alexander Hamilton
Hatch, Alfred Wilson
Heitmann, John Barston
Hendrickson, And.Jackson
Hoogstraat, Fred Charles

520

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Simpson, William Clark
Osbon, Albert
Hoorobeck, Eugene
Sinclair, Albert
Osbon, Jacob Armanos
Hoot, William
Stearns, Aogustoe George
Patten, Herbert
Johnson, Benton Oscar
Stefan, Frederick 'Joseph
Phinney, Mellen Mosher
Johnson, David Shields
Sweesy, George Washington
Poundstone, Jacob
Kennard, Thomas John
Tattle, Edward Andrews
Prescott, Frank Clarke
Kennedy, Doncan
Richardson, Frank Edward Wallace, John Easom
Malone, Hatton 0
McKee, Emmett Sylvester Richardson, John ~'ranklin Wells, Curtis
Wheat, James Madison
Mendelhall, \Villard Hall Riggs, James Sherburne
Mitchell, Vinton Littleton Sanborn, Christopher Allen Williams, Silas
Wise, Channey Archibald
Sayre, Louis Pierson
Moore, Elliott Aogostus
Wooliscroft, JeBSe-82.
Setchlleld, Richard
Morrie, William Thomae
Seymour, Jerome Elias
Morrison, Frank Pierce

To the Gra.n d Lodge of Oal.ifornia.

1895.]

Rhodes, Edwin
Kilpatrick, David
Ranson, Oharles Looian
Kirchholfer, Rieb. Berresf'd Smith, Lewis
Hardy, Oren Eldridge
Sootbworth, Alva Morrison
Bills, Edward Maine Weltin Moree, Clement Ray
Holbrook, George Robert Newman, Orlando James Terrell, William Peche.m
Whitaker, Isaac Whitaker
Nicoll, Daniel
Holmes, Thomas
Woodroft', James-54,,
Phillipe, Hickman
Horne, Walter Jamee
Jackson, Harrison Webster Piddington, Alt'red
ENTERED APPREllTIOE :

WITHDRAWN:

Lynch, John Conant-1.

Wyeth, Joeeph-1.

SANTA LUCIA LODGE, No. 302.

ENTERED A.PPRENTIOE :

KlnQ"• City, Monterey Coan&y.

Reuss, John Leonard-I.

Stated Meetings, Thur1day of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

WITHDRAWN :

Archer, Richard Edwin
Fish, Charles Edward

521

OFFICERS r

Howe, George Fraok--4.

Foster, George Emory
DIED:

Alder, William Henry Scott-I.

William Grant Stevenson, Ben. Deaoon,
Frank Harloe Westlake, Master,
Joseph Johnson Long, Jr., Jun. Deacon,
Joseph Rice, Senior Warden,
Ohe.rles Riche.rd Mele.oder, Jun. Warden, John Nelson Beese, Mar1hal,
Joseph Johnson Loog Br }
Robert James Rogers, 7Tea.urer,
· A1exander Ee.ton, &icretary,
John Domianovlch, ' " Stetoar<JA'
Edwin
Warren, Tyler.
Alfred
Ohaplain,
Witham,
John
Pa11t Maatera1

Alexander Patterson,
John Nelson ~eBSe,

ONTARI O LODGE, No. 301.
Ontario, San Bernardino Coanty.

Stated .Medings, Friday of or next preceding .Full .Moon in each month.
OFFICERS 1

Frederick William Armitage, Sen. Deacon,
Robert Gray, Maatsr,
Thomae Stone Knoles, Junior Deaoon,
Albert Dean Moore, Senior Warden,
Charles Olement Waite, Junior Warden, Wilbor Waletein Smith, Marshal,
Frederick,,Ythor Little, l Stewara..
· Eder Barnom Newton, Treasurer,
'
Rinaldo James Smith, f
Oharlea Ransom Sykes, Searetary,
Samoel Gilson Blood, Tyler.
Rev. Malcolm B MacLeod, Ohaplain,
Thomae Hitt Bowman,
Ernest Do Boie,

John Palk Robertson,
Martin Van Boren McQoigg.

MASTER M.ABONB:

WITHDRAWN :

DIED:

Steinbeck, John Ernest-I.

Reynolds, John-I.

PORTER VILLE LODGE, · No. 303.
Portervllle, Tulare County.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS :

MASTER MASONS :

Drew, Edred
Brown, David Roland
Allen, Charles Winfred
Ford, Byron
Catto, William
Barrett, George Sawyer
Frankish, Charles
Beesley, George Edward Collins, Willle.m Edwin
Garcia, Joseph Silveira
Brackenridge, Robt. Orwig Cordllr, r,ewis Thomas
Covernton, Theodore Selby Green, John Benjamin
Bracewell, Hartley

Thomae Theodore Tidball.

Hamilton, William John
Matthews, Robert Lowrie
Beebe, Frank Merritt
Harbolt, J obn Fielding
Pitta, William Langmead
Bushnell, Henry
Hedgpeth, William Rufus Schroeder, Frederick Wm.
Colfey, Albert W
Oopley, Andrew Jackson Landram, Joe. McKindrie Wallie, Daniel Whitlleld
Witham, Jobn-30.
Dozier, Charles Atkinson Ledbetter, Dooglae
Fancher, Jamee Knox Polk Leese, David

Past Maetera 1 .

Albert Glenn Kendall,
·Benjamin Wm. Richards,
Benj. Cha1fey Shepherd,

Edwin .!lenoder Ee.ton,

Jacob Franklin Boller, Malter,
William Oe.rl Blomlleld, Sen, Warden,
Jolin Be.moel Berryhill, Junior Warden,
.Tobn Benjamin Hockett, 7Teaaurer,
Hiram FBrey, Secretary,
Bamoel Thompson Gillam, Ohaplain,

47

Robert Henry McDonald, Senior JJeacon,
J e.mee Henderson Hatcher, Jun. Deacon,
Lonie Pohlman, Marshal,
Jamee Sylve.nos Lewis, t Btetoarda
'
John Thompson Manter, f
John Aogoai WeBSman, Tyler.

522

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Paat lllaaters•

Adolph Gnste.ve Schulz,
John Benje.min Hockett,

Hiram 11' Brey,
Jacob Franklin Boller.
Edwin Wellington Beebe,

1895.]

To the GTand Lodge of Oalifornia.

523

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

RESTORED:

Heine, William Ludolph-I.

Lacey, Jasper Newton-I.

MASTER MASONS:

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bearse, John Theodore
Hornsby, Thomas Jefferson Newman, Emil
Howeth, Nelson
Norris, Walter Hardiway
Box, Samuel Powell
Pressey, GeorgeWe.shington
Brown, Robert Allen
Hughes, Hugh John
Kelly, Thomas Almorino Scott, Johll
Flangher, John Daulton
Gninn, Andrew Jackson
Lnmley, Aubrey Montagne Troeger, Charles Albert
I,umley, Gerold Robert
Van Deneen, Ezra Bntler
Hardeman, John Locke
Hanghton, Edward William McFarland, Robert West Von Bchmltton, Sterling A.
Re.yes, Jacob
Mcintyre, Thomas
White, James Smith
Henderson, Thoe. Edward Miner, James Looney
Willie.ms, John Howe.rd
Henry, Oliver Osborn
Montgomery, Percy Oland Wood, Robert M--j6,
Hewey, John Wm.· Ernest Murry, George Gordon

Brooks, Mice.gar Edgar-1.
WITHDRAWN :

Holcomb, Ira Potter
Helm, Samuel Campbell

Barthel, Franklin Keiffer
Dick, Jamee

Lacey, Jasper Newton
Musans, William Purinton
-8.

FELLOW CRAFTI:! :

Young, William Moore-2.

James, John Henry

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

AZUSA LODGE, No. 305.
Azusa, Los ·Angele• County.

·

A.lien, Benje.min-I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Stated Meetinga, Thuraday of or ne:et preceding Full Moon.

Wilson, Benjamin Steele-2.

Whitt, Lycurges Delinoy
DIED :

OFFICERS:

Orlando Henry Huber, Masi.er,
Charles Henry Lee, Senwr Warden,
Willard J, Wade, Junior Warden,
William Aikman, 7ha8urer,
Hugh Henry Mccutchan, Seoi·etaf'J/,
Winfield Scott Oole, Ohap'l.ain,

Ross, Andrew (E• .A..)-L

REEDLEY LODGE, No. 304.
Reedley, P'reano County,

Paat Ma•t<'rs:

James Denny Reed,

Robert Wesley Dawson,
Thomas Francis Griswold,

Walter Young De.vies, Senior Deacon,
Christopher Dudley, Ma~er,
Clarence Alvin He.le, Junior Deacon,
Albert Bazzle Clark, Senior Warden,
Daniel Lyle Reed, .Mar•hal,
- - - - - -, Junio1· Warden,
~'red I ves Gilbert,
l Stf!IDardSJ
John Simeon Jones, TreatJUrer,
Barry Frank Winnes, 1
~
Joseph Burson M;oome.w, Sem-etary,
Eldridge Getchell Humphrey, Chaplain, .Albert Thomas Bollinger, Tyler.

Le Baron, Eugene
Rogers, Andrew Berry
Mace, Edwin
Rubins, John Oalvin
Meredith, Charles Theiss
Shaw, David Albert
Mlllor, John Holbrook
Shorey, Charles Henry
Stower, Alex. Campbell
Needham, John
Robertson, Benj. Oolumbns Thomas, Henry--84.
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

William Rollin Purinton.
MAl:!TER MASONS :

Bollinger, John Franklin
Oonley, John
Earl, Sumner Fremont
Griest, Peter
Gnmmow, Charles

Barker, William Thomae
Bentley, Daniel Sweet
Calvert, John William
Curran, Phillip
Daniels, Adonlsan Judson
Elllott, Eugene August
Graham, George

Fraieher, Olaude Melnotte-I.

Paat l!laatera:

Jolina Langdon Gilbert,

Jacob Brunjes.

MASTER MASONS :

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preuding Pull JJloon.
OFFICERS:

James Arthur Metcalfe, Senior Deacon,
Robert Love Fraisher, Junior Deacon,
William Orland Btreshly, Marshal,
Robert Wesley Dawson,
t SteUJ dSJ
Joseph Clinton Crickmore, f
ar '
George Washington Joden, 7'yler.

Marlar, William Edward
Mower, Eugene Adelbert
Neil, James Polk
Neil, William Rice

Reed, George Victor
Skoggins,A.ndrew Jackson
Smith, David Christopher
Thomas, John Nei!-26.

WITHDRAWN :

Ore.wford, Thomas

Hoover, William 11'-2.

524

Returns of the Stibordinaie Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1895.]

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornia ..

525

Paat Mastera•

ASHLAR LODGE, No. 306.

Le Roy Decatur Brown,
William Templeman Gillie,

OFFICERS 1

Henry Halleck Bingham, Senior Deacon,
Constantine U'Ren, Miuter,
George Edward Bnrrall, Senior Warden, Albert Clark .Mott, Junior Deacon,
Frederick Richard Bright, Jun. Warden, Albert Minnick, Marshal,
John Lawrence Merkley, l Stew d8
Josephus Darby Warner, Trsarurer,
ar '
f
John .McGregor,
Wilber F' Bliss, Secretary,
Thomas Stanton Adkins, Tyler. '
Francie Mille Hubbard, Ohaplatn,
Past Ma.ten•

Fraocie Mille Hubbard,

Howard Burton Smith.

Boaliok, George
Clark, Ward Eastman
Franklin, Renhen Henry
French, George William
Foarey, Andrew
Hubbard, George Melville

Thompson, Albert
Thompson, Edward Everett
Topp, Thomae Martin
Waters, Peter Edward
Wetteroth, Frederlck-29 .

FELLOW ORAFT :

Monrovia. Loa An&'elea County,

ENTERED APPRENTICE S :

.Murphy, Michael Angnetoe

Ellie, FrankRevell le-2.

Chaffey, Elwood

MONROV IA LODGE, No. 308.

Spring, Adolpboe Doane-1.
De Berry, William Henry

Hamilton, Newell Hiram Place, Joseph Jeremiah
Prince, George Henry
Haese, Herman Edward
Proctor, John Borton
Jackson, Stephen
Putman, DeWitt Clinton
Jenkins, Robert Chesley
Roth, .Myron Clark
Kimball, .Myron Holly
Steele, John Corbett
Kinney, Abbot
Snits, Elihu Daniel
Klase, Frederick
Lehman, Aogoet Herman Sweetser, Edward Healy
Lowman, Zachariah Henry Tnllle, Oliver Grant
McO!nrkin, William John Vinyard, William Sim
Volkman, .Martin Henry
Miller, Robert .Meek
--02.
Morrison, Andrew Brown

Bagg, Henry Clay
Barker, Alvin Perry
Boyce, Menzo B
Bergk, Charles
Calder, Chester Clifford
Oates, Horace Getchell
Colbert, Patrick
Dalee, Charles Scott
Davie, J, Jeft'ereon
Elser, Frederick
Feather, .Marcus D
Haefner, John

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DU.ES:

MASTER MABON~ :

.Martin, Robert Johnston
.Matot, Jobn
.Mitchell, Ebeo Lester
Pittman, Benjamin
Roberts, Edward David

Francie Marion Colp,
J nliue I Comstock.

MASTER MASONS:

Colton. San Bernardino County.

Staeed Meetings, Thursday qf or next preceding FuU Moon.

Niles Rathbun Folsom,
Lorel'.llilO Anson Rockwell,

Bothwell, Benjamin F.-S.

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.

WITBDRA\fN :

OFFICERS1

Hnbbard, William Lewle-1.

John Harvey Strine, Senior Deao<Yn,
James William Harvey, Master,
William Parker Spence, &mfor Warde.ta, Eugene Daniel Northrnp, Junior Deaoon,
Edward Spencer Armstrong, J. Wanien, Albert Horlbut Johnson, Marsha~
Edgar Manvil Prindle, l Bt6warda,
John Henry Bartle, '.lrearurer,
f.
Rossell D Adams,
Leonidas Barnes, Secretary,
De Witt Clinton Sawyer, Tyler.
William Oaee Badeau, Ohaplain,
Paat llla11tera:

SANTA MONICA LODGE, No. 3CY7.
Santa Monica, Loa Angelea County,

Seared Me,etinga, third Friday in ea.ch month.
OFFICERS 1

Beary Workman Keller, Ma.isr,
James Elias Donham, Sen. Warden,
Edward Emerson, Jun. Warden,
Edwin James Vawter, 7rea.urer,
Charles Henry Thomae, Secretary,
Ivan Morgan Merlinjonee, Ohaplain,

Nathan Franklin Smith, Senior Deacon,
George Byrd Dexter, Junior Deaoon,
Joline I Comstock, Mar1hal,
I BtBt.Oards
John Kennedy,
'
Edwin Jamee Vawter, Jr., f
Stephen Fisk Carpenter, Tyl.tw.

William Wallace Whitaker, Ulyseus Samuel Grant Todd, Wash. Lafayette Goodman.
James .A Foshay,
MASTER MASONS:

Lodwig, Uriah Seitz
Cornes, Frank Jay
Anderson, John Calvin
Oronenwett,Alb'rt Emanuel Monroe, Campbell Otto
Bacon, William Ware
Monroe, George Waller
Dooglase, Frank M
Bardill, Conrad
Reed, John Wallace
Barnes, Charles Wasbingt'n Dnnn, John V
Donwell, William Tennent Tbnmme, Abraham
Bent, Abbott Jackson
Tyler, Jesse
Hayes, John
Blair, Lother Reed
Hinters, Adolph Uhristian Wardall, Thomas
Boone, Harold Thomas
Chamberlain,Myron Holley Ingersoll, Charles Kelley Wheeler, Orswell Asher
Whittington, Joseph Calvin
Lawrence, Robert Hoe
Clark, William 0
-43.

526

Returns of the SvlJordinate Lo<l<.Jes

[Aug. 1,

Wheeler, Lawrence Newton-2.

John Franklin McBride,

Jam es Stevens.

Thomas Cross Pockman,
MASTER MASONS :

WITHDRAWN:

Arbeely, Habeeb Joseph
Johnson, William Ira

527

To the Grand Lodge of California.
Paet Dlaetera1

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Glenny, ·rhomas

1895.]

Smith, Frank Ward-4,

Norton, Edward Gray

Bonham, Hiram Jeffries
Bnrley, Charles Bernard
Griffen, Leander J
Johnson, George B

McLaren, James
Middleton, John
Myers, George E;!mond
Orr, John Brown

Peterson, Charles David
Smiley, Albert Parah
Sollner, John B
Weed, Abner-25.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Fowler, Thomas B.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

DELANO LODGE, No. 309.

Moors, Oliver Edgerton

Sisson, Frederick P-2.
DIED:

Delano. Kern County.

Cochran, Rufus Mycajah

Persons, Ammer-2.

Stated Meeti11gs, first Thursday in each moi~th.
OFFICERS a

David Seymonr Woodrntr, Ma.,ter,
William Lannon Smith, Senior Deaoon,
Benjamin Thomas, Senior Warden,
Archibald Sheppard, Junior Deacon,
Benjamin Franklin Hobart, Jun. Warden, Theodore Temple Park, Marshal,
James Bartlett Robinson, Treasurer,
Henry David Zimmerman, l Stewa dB
John Jaoob Schlitz, Seoretary,
Alexander Sames Kramer, f .
r '
Lance Scott Robertson, Tyler.
Paat Masters:

David Beymonr Woodruff,

Theodore Temple Park.

John Jacob Sohlitz,
Daggins, James Madison
Fnnston, James
Jones, Arthnr Wililly
Loose, Herman

Hueneme, Ventura County. ·

Stated Meetings, first Saturday after Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

MASTER MASONS :

Allen, Marcns D
Cline, Christian William
Darling, Elwin Charles
Dorsey, Richard Valentine

HUENEME LODGE, No. 311.

Metzgar, Elias Bnrgess
Taggart, Thomas' E
Watts, Benjamin Marion
-22·

Robert George Livingston, Master,
Richard Oox, Seni<IT' Deacon,
Moise Lazard Wolff, Senior Warden,
Christopher Maxwell Robinson, .Jun.Dea.,
George Edmnnd Eastwood, Jun. Warden, William Jame!' McMillan, MarBhal,
Achille Levy, Treasurer,
Leon Lehmann, l Stewards,
Solomon Lawrence Mack, Searetary,
George Baum, f
John Samuel Johnson, OhapZain,
Henry William Witman, Tyler.
Paet Mastera:

Solomon Lawrence Maok,

Richard Cox.
MASTER MASONS :

SISSON LODGE, No. 310.
Sisson, Siskiyou County,

Bard, Thomas Robert
Oarr, Philetue Sprague
Cook, William Charles
Hankins, Alonzo

Laurent, Martin Julius
Palin, Jean Baptiste
Rasmussen, Jens

Bchiltze, Herman Albert
Smith, Alvin Billings
Wadleigh, Orville Austin
-22.

Stated Meetings, first Thursda11 of each month.

FELLOW CRAFT:

WITHDRAWN:

OFFIUERS1

Rice, Thomas Alexander-I.

Nelson, William Ressenious-1.

Thomas Cross Pockman, Master,
Archie Galen Edson, Senior Deacon,
Oscar Hiram Wood, Senior Warden,
John Westley Rinckel, Junior neaaon,
William Henry Shibley, Junior Warden, Charles Wickman, Marshal,
Charles Caswell Smith, Treasurer,
John Martin Schnler,
l
Henry Wilson Walbridge, Seoretary,
Charles Abram Andrews, f Stewards,
Hugh Blythe Andrews, Tyler.

528

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodg~ of Oaliforni.a..

529

LOS BAN OS LODG E, No. 312.
Loa Hano• , Merced County .

TEM ESCA L LODG E, No. 314.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

South RIYera lde, Rlverll fde County ,

OFFIC ERS:

William Jasper Stockton, Senior Deacon,
Charles Frederi ck Wade, Master,
s J. Peterson, Jun. Deacon,
William Josiah Jameson, Senior Warden, Fred. Johanne
l,
Marsha
Backle,
Fred
,
Warden
Jt.lflior
Higby,
Oliver
Seward
Albert Maitland Vanderlip,} Steward.a,
Alfred Harris, '.lteaaurer,
Thomas W Patton,
Benjamin Fnncheon, Secretary,·
Samuel Newell Beaty, Tyler.
Paat Master s:

Charles Frederi ck Wade,

Samuel Newell Beaty.

M.ABTER MASONS:

Bibby, Nicholas
Carrick , John Willard
Drummond, John Quincy
Elder, Charles Glenn
Lacy, Joseph

Lang, William John
Leonar d, Dennis Allen
Mccran ey, William
Perry, Charles Edwin
Ryley, Samuel Paul

Sbrimpton, William Bolton
Smith, .Martin .Miles
Wood, Ohester Worthington
Wright, William Walter -25,

Holfman, Edward Benry- 1.

OFFIC ERS:

Preston Alexanuer Bennett, Master,
Charles Henry Cornell, Sen. Wardtn ,
William Christian Barth, Jun. Warden,
Edwin Buckley Alderman, Trett11t.1rer,
Albert Polk Kelley, Searetary,
George Brown, Ohaplai.n,

Einfeldt, Detlef Johann ie-1.
DIED:

Harlan Elbridge Taylor, Senf.or Deacon,
Clifford VelonronsGleason, Jun. Deacon,
Orlando Artemus Smith, Marshal,
Thomas Paine Drinkwater, t Steward.a
'
f
Ambrose Compton,
Elam Harter, Tyler.

Past Master s•

Orlando Artemas Smith,

Preston Alexander Bennet t,

George Brown.

MASTE R MASONS :

Barber, Rio Delos
Dill, Jacob William
Dyer, Frank John
Hamilton, Edwin Elliott

WITHDRAWN:

ENTERE D APPREN TICE:

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.'

Davenport, William John-I .

Rolfe, Ovid Dennett
Lord, Daniel
Scoville, Frank
Mathes, James Page
Songer, James- 28.
McVicar, William Grey
Plantlco, Emil Lonie David
ENTERE D APPREN TICE:

Foller, O. B.-1.

TEH ACH API LODG E, No. 313.
Tehac hapi. Kern County .

Moon.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or nezt preceding Full
OFFIC ERS•

Edw. J. Hosbrook Nicholson, S. Deacon,
John Henry Sheridan, Ma.ater,
Dick Shackleford, Junior Deacon,
,
Warden
Senior
ut,
Peter Tonrno
Eugene Truman Garlock, Marshal,
,
Warden
Jun.
Peter Jamesl'dcFarlane,
Borton Martin Denison,~ Stewards
Abram Staley, Treaaure.r,
'
Olarence Edward King,
Austin Yoong, Secretary,
Daniel Boon Newell, TJller.
Past Master 1

ENTERE D APP.&ENTICE :

Tonrpin, Sidney Loui-1 .

Stated Meeting8, 'l'aesday of or nm preceding Full Moon.
OFFIC ERS:

WITHD RAWN:

Lee, Moses Dayton -1.

Past Maater :

MASTE R MASON S:

Strader , Fred E

Norwa lk, Loa Angele • County .

William Alfred Sackett, Senior Deaoan,
James Smith Eliot, Master,
William Charles Sproul, Junior Deacon,
Schofield Holgate, Senior Warden,
Franklin McCarrio, Marlhal,
Charles Rodgers, Junior Warden,
/
Ga tt D
Darius David Johnston, Treasurer,
nncan, . Btewarda,
rne
Emery,
Charles
- , Secretary,
Levi Walter De Witt, Tyler.

John Henry Sheridan.
Atchison, Robert
Spence r, Patrick H. W.

NOR WAL K LODG E, No. 315.

Wilson, William Cabani88

-16.

DIED:

James Smith Eliot.

Peery, llladiao n-1.

48

[Aug. 1,

Returns of the Sub<Yrdinate Lod1Jes

530

To the Grand Lod1Je of OaU{ornia.

1895.]

531

MASTER MASONS:

Baker, John Samnel
Baker, Samuel George
Branch, John Franklin
Bray, William Frederic
Brown, Pleasant Andrew
Clark, Jamee Clark

Conrtney, Joseph Edward Mason, Obarlee Oole
Deering, Richard Sanford Mathews, William Henry
Randall, Wallace
Dohn , Phillip Carl
Frampton, George Reed. Sebaetian,Cb arlee Edward
Walters, Jacob Weeley-27.
Groover, John Franklin
Hay, Jamee
AFFD:..IATED:

MASTER MASON :

Johnston, Rufus-I.

Livingston, 01.iarlee Palmer-1.
WITHDRAWN :

Towne, George Austin
Johnston, Rufne
J,lvlngston, Charles Palmer Tncker, Charles Oliver-8.
Raymond, Wm. Bernardo

Cnster, H,arrieon K
Gwin, Ancin
Horney, George H

FALLBR OOK LODGE, No. 317.
Fallbrook, San Dle.ro County.

Stated Meeting•, Friday of or nea:t preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS :

Robert Emerson Chapman, Master,
Frank Maxwell, Senior Warden,
Oscar Leslie Clyde, Junior Warden,
Anson Maxwell Peters, Treatmrer,
Almond James Clark, Bearetary,
William Pittenger, Ohaplair1,

John Cornelius Warring, S enior Deaoon,
Chrisman Harrison Parker, Jun.Deacon,
Alonzo Manderville Bell, Mar8Jial,
di
Ashley Stephens Parker, j Ste
J osepb George .Martin, 1 war '
Jamee Enos Tracy, Tyler.

DIED:

Past Master:

Morton, Ezekiel A-1.

Robert Emmerson Chapman.
MASTER MASONS:

Bowers, Stephen
Clemens, Andrew

Gould, William Jamee
Gray, William Macy

Hewes, Jonathan Nicholas

-17.

SANGER LODGE, No. 316.
San.rer, Freano County,

Stated Muting•, Saturday of or nea:t preceding Full Moon.

EMMAN UEL LODGE, No. 318.

OFFICERS :

James Henry Sayre, Master,
Douglae Balfonr, Ben. Warden,
Andrew Hamilton, Jun. Warden,
Lee McLanghlin, 7rea8Urer,
Edwin Clarke Southworth, Be.cretary,
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

David Thompson Rogers, Btm.Deaacm,
William Elwood Swank, Jun. DeaCOfl,
Benjamin Franklin Tackaberry, Mar-Bhal,
Steward.8,
Orlando Chester Shaw,
Obarles Herbert Aston,
Zachariah Thomas Jordan, '.IYler.

I

Paat Master 1

Henry Bascom Rogers.
MASTER MASONS :

Armnth, Alfred Samuel
Bnrns, Miles Franc.is
:Byrd, John H
Oarlton, Thomae Franklin
Cavanah, John Crump
Cummings, Alfred Henry
Depew, William Brenning
Dewey, Edward Porter

Pottle, James Cyrns
l>ixon, Frank Albert
Elmore, Benjamin Thomas Scales, Horace Homer
Scholes, Jamee Francis
Fortune, Edward F
Taylor, Leroy
Hamilton, Andrew
Helm, Columbus Woodville Thompson, Oliver McGrady
Walton, Isaac A
Kutner, Alfred
Weldon, Abraham James
Lange, Onrl Adam
Weston, Cbarles-35.
Heaves, Charles Henry

:EXPELLED:

Paden, Robert J-1.

OFFIClllRSa

James Helm McGill, Senior Deacon,
Wendell Philnoins Hammon, Malter,
Andrew Moore Woodrnft, Junior Deacon,
John Leander Hicks, Senior Warden,
Giiman Kendall Smith, Junior Warden, William Rueb Cleveland, Mar8Jial,
Martin Tillman Ivy t
Lyman William Doty, Trea1urer,
Moses La Point, 'f Stewards,
William Lizare Armstrong, Secretary,
Leander Melton, 'J.lyler.
Paat Maater:

Orwin Cullin Hawkins.
MASTER MASONS :

Doty, William Mark
Beal, John
Berveillier, Jean Nicholas O. Stoudt, Aaron F

Stansill, Fred Richard
Wllllame, Alexander Jackson

FELLOW CRAFT:
ENTERED APPRENTICE S :

WITHDRAWN :

Giles, Frank E

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Demmer, Matblae-1.

MASTER MASON:

Burness, Hector-1.
BnrneBB, Hector

BIM:ga, Butte County.

Manning, Thomae Tyler
Skaggs, George Edgar.-3.

McLeod, John Alexander-2 .

WITHDRAWN:
Gaines, Francie Albert-I.

-18.

532

Returns of the Stibordinaie Lodges

[Ang. 1,

HOLLENBECK LODGE, No. 319.
Los Aneele1, Los Anarelea Ceunty.

1895.]

'1.o the Grand Lodge of O<iliforni.a.
SOUTH GATE LODGE, No, 320.
Loa An&"ele., Loa An&"elea County.

Stated 1Jfeeting11, first Friday in each month.

Stated Meeting11, 1econd Monday in each month.
OFFJCERSt

John Marone Dunsmoor, Master,
Thomus Finlay Barnes, Senior Deacon,
William James Variel, Senior Warden,
Harry George Johnson, Junior Deacon,
Robert Ernst Wirsching, Junior Warden, Henry Bylvanns Sook, Mar•hal,
Frederick Lam boom, '.lreasurer,
Oharles Gottfried Spreng, l Steward.a,
John William Dick, SetJl'etary,
Edward Hikes Angnstns, f
·William Amon Knighten, Ohaplain,
James Riley Barrick, Tyler.
Past Mastera•

Trowbridge Hyer Ward,
John Marcus Dunsmoor,
Daniel Rawlings Browning, George Fergoson,
John Slater Chapman,
J&mes Wesley Hendrick,

Roh't Henry Fonnt'yVariel,
Charles Franklin Yoong.

MASTER MASONS:

Barber, David CassaU
Gregory, Harvey Kedizie Pixton, James
Bell,James George
H~mmel, William Augustus Powers, Edward Everett
Bell, Otis Freeman
Hancock, Walter Edward Powers, Levi Osgoode
Benton, Henry Clay
Hartnett, Cornelins Evans Rees, Samuel ·
Bliesner, William John
Harrie, Jasper Monroe
Rhelnschild, George
Bost~ick, Edward Everett Hollen heck, Edward Henry Ruddy, William
Bradley, William H
Irvin, Edward Samnel
Shanks, Oollln
Brant, Byron K
Jacobi, Louis
Simonton, George William
Bnrr, William Orange
Johnson, Peter
Svlrcich, Frank
Bntterwortb, Ed. Bummers Jordan, Robert Collins
Teale, Frederick Honston
Campbell, George W
Kennedy , James Kemper Teale, Frederick Joseph
Chandler,Burdette
Lane, Charles Wol.pott
Teale, William Robert
Cochrane, Malcom
Lei:J:, Frederick
Temple, Angnst 0 F
Oowan, John
Levering, Martin Morry
Thomas, Robert Shaw
Crail, James
Loomis, Lester Grant
Thompson, ThomaR
Oriety, Addison Barton
MacKenzie, Peter Shaw
Thornton, William Orane
Onmmiogs,Marshal Spencer McLagan, Ch1ule~ Symon Timble, Henry Bassatt
DavlBBon, John Harvey
McNeil, James Elliott
Wandliog, George Benjamin
Densmore, Edwin
Morrison, Norman Holt
Webb, Walter Lawton
Dessery, Alfred Bonny
Morse, Frederick Theodore Willard, Oyrns
Dessery, Victor
Mottram, John Hy. Harper Workman, William Henry
Donning, Day Hix
Newkirk, Adamson Bentley Worland, Henry Olay
Ellis, George Reed
Orvis, Joseph Lader
Wylie, John Perry-90.
Forrester, Arthnr Walter Phillip, Henry B
AFFILIATED:

Bntclitfe, J ohn-1.

OFFICERS1

Schee, Walter Scott

Paa& Maatera 1

Frank Charles Wolf,
William John Magee,

Holgate, William
DIED:

Bntcllil'e, John-1.

Peterson Smith Baker,

Edward Weck.

MASTER MASONS :

Adams, Joseph Franklin
Hays, John
Porter, William Sterling
.Alexander, George
Hitchcock, William Wesley Potts, Henry Samnel
Allen, Albert .A.
Hopkins, Harry Lincoln
Preston, Jasper Newton
Anderson, Wm. J. Archib'd Horton, Rufus Landon
Raymond, Edwin William
Ashman, James
Jencks, George
Rebman, John
Beers, Samuel Perry
Johnson, Franklin
Reel, Peter Alexander
Bellringer, Edward Anbrey Kiernltf, Benjamin Franklin Riley, Daniel Pike
Berkey, Charles Edward
Koster, Charles Edward
Ruth, Angnst
Beyrle, Robert
Lacroix, John Francis
Rontzahn, Willis Harsey
Bird, Arthnr Milton
Lander, Benjamin Stewart Sawhill, Frelingbuysen
Bromynge, Walter Alfred Lidgerwood, Geo. Irving Schmidtz, John
Bowers, Wesley Clay
Little, Frederick Eugene Scott, Arthur Moreman
Brooks, James Marion
Longley, Anzoletto Leonel! Scott, George Washington
Brunswick, Adolph ¥arion Lucas, Ebenezer Wesley Shafer, Oharles Franklin
Bulfinch, Stephen Amos
Lncas, John Alfred
Spragne, William Brown
Oarey, Arthnr Hugh
Martin, William Byard
Steckel, Oeorge
•
Oarter, Harry Von
Mathis, Elbert Nelson
Stewart, John Taylor
Oastrnccio, James Scipione Mathi~, John Anthony
Stine, Isaac D
Clark, Thomas Maxwell
McConnell, Lee Alena
Botton, James Nnttle
Coombe, Alfred John
McGilliard, Gideon Deloss Bw1utz, Charles Freeman
Cotler, George Albert
.McKinley, James Welford Taylor, Oharlea Ru88011
De Berry, Angn~ Jasper
Mills, William S
Tofte, John Qninoy
Ducasse, Peter Leon
Nadeau, Hubert
Van Alstine, Geo, Warren
Elliott, Thomas Henry
Parke, Oliver Hazzard P. Van Lew, Frederick
Foster, Edward Clarence Parker, Francis Marion
Wagner, Daniel Artbnr
George, Leb X.
Parker, James Eads
Walsb, Frank Edward
Green , Wright .Farmer
Pepe, Fernando
White, Frank Harrison
Grindell, Thomas Fletcher Perry, Arthnr St. Clair
Wood, George Henry
Hawks, William
Pine), Emile Jean
Young, William-102.
FELLOW ORA.FT:

Cross, Julian bmith-1.

Strans, Robert Morris-3.

ENTERED ~PRENTICES:

ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Barrett, Andrew Washington

'

Frank Charles Wolf, Maeter,
Alexander Roseborongh Fraser, Sr. Deao.
Elbert Taylor Parke, Senior Warden,
William Henry Gaynor, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Roswell Dering, Junior Warden, G,.arge D onglas Pessell, Marshal,
John Weber, Treasurer,
Willis Charles Marsh, l Ste
d3
Alexand&r Patterson, Secretary,
William Elliott Martin, f
!Dar '
Abraham Blom, Ohaplain,
Andrew Jackson Lenox, Tyler.

FELLOW ORAFTS:

Ford, George Jackson Parker

533

Morgan, Ootavins-3.

Drake, Alfred Benjamin

Howe, George Edward

Stanton, Lewis Edgar-3.

AFFILIATED :

WITHDBA~:

Woolmer, Charles-1.

Smith, Wade Morris-1.

DIED:

Woolmer, Oharles-1.

634

Returns of the Subordinate Lod{/es

[Aug. I,

ALISAL LODGE, No. 321.

1895.]

WHITTIER LODGE, U. D.

PJeaaanton, Alameda Connty.

Whittler, Lo11 Aneelea County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

OFFICJERS1

OFFICERl!i1

John Adolp Bilz, Senior Deaoon,
Henry Pierce Chadbonrne, Ma6ter,
Christian Hansen Dall, Junior Deaoon,
William Henry Cope, Senior Warden,
Thomas William Harris, Marshal,
William Harris, Junior Warden,
} Stewards,
Harris Arendt,
Edward Lewis Benedict, Treasurer,
George Johnston,
George Freedom Gilson, Secretary,
Charles Louis Orelliu, Tyler.

Robert B Way, Master,
Sidney Mortimer Allison, Ben. Warden,
Arthur William Swain, Jun. Warden,
John d. Hyatt, 7haaurer,
Charles Palmer Livingston, Secretary,
John Wood, Ohaplain,

Pa11t Maeter:

Milo Allen,

MASTER 'MA.SONS:

Platt, Alfred George

Charles Oliver Tucker, Senior Deacon,
Gilbert Harvey Horney, Junior Deacon,
George O. Lawhead, Marshal,
l steUJard.8
Ancil Gwin,
Willitts J. Hole,
Harrison K. Custer, 7\,ller.

'

r

Paet Mastera•

Henry Pierce Chadbourne.
Crellin, Ernest Willard
Gillis, Jam es

535

To the Grand Lodge of Oaliforni.a.

Robert B Way.
MASTER MASONS:

Wellbye, Julias Lars-15.

WITHDRAWN:

Mohr, John Cornelins-1.

Dunlap, Albert Houston
Hyatt, William Macy
Johnston, Rafus

Arnold, Benjamin F.
Bailie, Samuel Girvin
Butterfield, Charles H.
Coleman, Samuel S.

Keller, Juline H.
Thompson, Frederick
Towne, George Anstin-23.

AFFILIATED:

WITHDRAWN:

Frll86r, Alexander I.-1.

Fraser, Alexander L-1,

ALHAMBRA LODGE, No. 322.
Alhambra, Loe Aneelea County.

Stated Meetings, second Monday in eadi fTIQnth.

CORONA LODGE, U. D.

OFFICERS:

Neal Sorensen, Senior Deacon,
Norval Gibson Felker, Maater,
Waldo Paschal Johnson, SetdorWardtn, Daniel Webster March, Junior Deaoon,
Francis Edward Gray, Junior Warden, Robert Pottol, Marshal,
} Btetllarda,
John Clifford,
James Jasper Rich, Treaaurer,
Henry Irving Hansoome,
Newton Warner Tliompson, Secretary,
John Messenger, Tyler.
Past Maeters:

Norval Gibson Felker,

James Montgomery Creamer,

James Jasper Rioh.

MASTER MASONS :

Ware, Edward Septimns
McDonongh, James
Ferguson, Edwin Pan!
Ware, Henry Peace
Fortney, Geo. Washington Olsen, Hans
Stuart Edward Brookbank Witherbee, Orville O.
Green, John .A
Stuart: Thoma.a Jefferson Whittemore, Wm. Henry
Jones, Charles Edward
-26.
Mackie, James
WITHDRAWN:

Johnson, Milbank-I.

Pasadena, Loa Aneelea County,

Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERl!it

Edward Everett Gaylord, Senior Deacon,
Leander Warren Frary, M1111ter,
Joline Albert Jacobs, Junior Deaoon,
Eugene Cook Griffith, Senior Warden,
Walter Livingston Wotkyna, J. Warden, William Shibley, Marshal,
Charles Joseph Willett, Treasurer,
Edward Groenendyke, l stfllDard.8,
William Henry Somers, f
Ernest Heath May, Secretat"'IJ,
Wyllys Hall, Ohapla·ira,
Neils Lewis Thompson (of Pasadena Lodge, No. 272), 'l!Jler.
Pa11t Ma11terat

Charles Joseph Willett,
John Richard Slater,
Arthur Henry Conger,
Charles Wooster,
Leander WRrren Frary ,P.<J.M. lid ward Groenendyke,
Arthur Hopkins Palmer,
Julius Albert Jacobs,

Joseph Elmer Smyth,
Oscar FWeed,
Lother Hight Webb.

536

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

To tlw Grand Lo<ige of California.

1895.J

537

MASTER MASONS:

Allen, Samuel Maxwell
Getchell, Charles Edward Millard, Frederic Charles
Allin, John
Green, Edward Willis
Mohr, Richard Jacob
Avers, Mortimer
Green, Manly P
Morris, Homer
Ball, Benjamin Franklin
Hansen, Lorenz Peter
Neff, Edwin Dorland
Bell, Charles Webster
Harris, Fred Reid
Orban, Peter
Bell, Nelson William
Hertel, Herman Rudolph Polley, Frank John
Biles, Fred Eugene
Hines, Henry Willis
Porter, La Fayette l:leward
Bleecker, John James
Holmes, James Huston
Randall, Merton Orlando
Braddock, Oscar Louis
Howe, Edward Tucker
Rhodes, Charles Hilliard
Braley, Frank Titus
Hull, Edward Richard
Sherman, Henry Bushnell
Brown, George Edward
Hutchins, Alfred
Skillen, Charles Moses
Coffin, George Holman
Jewett,Stanl'y Punchards'n l:lkillen, Ralph George
Crossman, James Dunn
Kernaghan, George Fred'k Slavin, Matthew
Staats, William Richardson
Deacon, George
Keyes, Charles Henry
Dickinson, Gardiner Wm. Lippincott,Sam'I Risdon,Jr. Stowell, Eugene Alexander
Fish, Charles Edward
Losee, Emory Albert
Torrance, Lewis Curtiss
Frost, Charles Henry
Markham, Henry Harrison Van Nuys, Hezekiah
Fuller/ Arthur Frederick McClintock, John Russell Van Nays, William Nelson
Fnrnald, Frad'k Henry Clay McGilvray, William Donald Wood, John Windell-76.
Gaylord, Wallace Kendall

EXPULSIONS, SUSPENSIONS AND RESTORATIONS.

EXPULSIONS BY LODGES, AFFIRMED:
12, 1894;
Albert Lorin Goodrich, .•.••••.•. by Stlv11r Gate, No. 296, .... Jnne
Robert J Paden.,. ••••.•••••...• by Sanger,
" 316,. .•. December . 6, 1894;
Stonewall Jackson Holliday, •.•.•• by AbeU,
" 146,. .•. Joly
6, 1895;
Archie Mathewson, •.••••.•••••••• by Bodie,
" 252, .... Augnst
17, 1896.
SUSPENSION

CONSUELO LODGE, U. D.

BY A LODGE FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT, AFFIBMED :

Eacondldo, San Dle1ro Coantv.

Joseph Daniel Jourdan, (of Mission, 169), by ~bell, No. 146,. •..•.. Jannary 5, 1895.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

EXPELLED BY GRAND LODGE;

OFFICERS1

Edouard Larthe, ............. of La Pa.rfa'UeUnion, No. 17,....... October 9, 1895.

Warren Jay Flick, MaBter,
Edward Merrian Chnrchi!I, Sen. Deacon,
Edward Jackson Hatch, Senior Warden, Jehoida H. Worth, Junior Deacon,
Alvin Webster Wohlford, Junior Warden, Henry Coffin Ray, Marshal,
John Neil Turrentine, 7reasurer,
Charles Lowell Estey,
l St(fl.Dard.s
John Charles Dickson, Secretary,
Charles Bowman Churchill, f .
'
Joseph Hamilton Sherrard, Ohaplatn,
George Randolph Jenkins, TJJler.

RESTORATION BY THE GRAND LODGE AFTER EXPULSION:
Robert Brann, ••••••.••••... of Hesperian,

Past Master•

William Luther Ramsey.
MASTER MASONS:

Bovle, James
Gipps,Montagne
Gundrum, Frederick
Kelly, John

Legore, Andrew Jackson
McKean, John Benjamin
McNeil, Lonie Wadhams

Merriam, Gustavus French
Phillips, Andrew
Stevenson, James Rankin
-23.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE:

Hill, Charles Horton-1.

49

No. 264, ••••••• October 9, 1895.

·

1

~I

8

j
TOWN.

I
COUNTY.

P L A 0 E 0 F L 0 0 A T I 0 N,

_gg: .,;

.,;

~

al

<II

al

~ ii::,

oSl'5

1==

• .;~ §~ _g " ~

l!i•

-: , _.;
~ ~od Iai
I
~ ~
al s ~ ~
.s-a
l i ! ~ ! ! ~ ! ~ !i !"~ i ~ ~ I ~~ :~

DATE WHEN ~ '!,l
OHARTER WAS !; !;
ORDERED.

I

I

l

*

"
"
"
"u

,;

"

"
"
14
"u
u

"
"
"
""
"

7,

"
5

"
"
"u

3, 1854.

"

I(

u

"

5

l

.....

·9 6 12

l

6

2

9

:: "i ·1
1 1 ...

...

...

u

... .. ... ...
... ... ... .. .
.. .
.. .... ... ... ..
...
... ..
.
..
...
...
...
..
.. ... .. . ... ... .,.... .. . .. ... .. .. .
...
...
.
..
..
...
..
...
...
...
..
.
..
.
..
..
...
...50 .. 6 1 1 1 1 .. ... 1 ..... 1 ... 40
so .. 6 l 1 1 ... .. ... ... . .. ..... 1 ... 30
.. . . ... ... .. . .. ... .. . ... ....
... .. .. ... ... ...
... .. .. ... .. . ... ... .. ... ... . .. .. ... ... ... ....

·is

38
37

'i79

63

44.

2 175

.,

1 91
1 14.6
1 6(
s 164
1 27
T 6 1 226
... 28
29
l ...
] ...
32

.

s

2

I

·3
Ii t ···
1 4
2 5

8

1

B

'

~

36
42

64
.. ..·l. •2 :."i.. 130

..

..

..

..

... ..

<:O
Cll

~

~
<b

~
~

~

~

....

~

w

....
00

~

~

~
d

f

t--1
c

Cb

a

;::l"

~

~

Cb

s:.

~

~
....

"

'!

H

H

H

H

lj

2

I

2 ...

2

.

~

<:11

O:>

.. "..
~
"..
..
-s
.. .... ....
~
;:s
2, 1856.
~.... ..'' .." so 5 126 ...1 1 l1 ... ..2 ....1 . 8. .. . .......1 ..s. ..1. "7219
.... .. " 505075 513 6 6II ...8 68 6i ..2 8 H6 .. ....
s 1 •• 17l
154
.. ..
'
..
..
... ... .. ' ::: 93
.....
so .. 8 s 2
.. .. .... 50 10.. 66 s8 T 7l ...8 ..3 ...l ...
... .. .. l 3 32
... ..... s 8 ll 228
"3, .. 50
...
.... ...
... ....19
.
....
... ...
.. . ......
.. .. ...30 .... ..6 ....•• ...... ...
......
... .. ... .... ...

4,
3,

6

'6::: ..;

'

1

8

2

'
..
~

2

·s

I
·75 .i
..
50 1 6 2 2 2 2 .. 2 ·l
.. 1 3
50 .. 6 6 IS ii
..
75 .. 8 6 7 8
2
..
l
30 .. 6 1
'ii 1' 4 1
..
50 .. 6 9
2
80 .. 6 l 1
..
12 18 l :: "1
75 10 6
l ...
50 .. 10
30 l 6 2 2 2 . . ;
1 l .....
50 6 6 ...

50 6 10

30 l 6 ...
60 4. 6 2

50 ·5 i2 "7

5, 1853. 60 6 6 ...
.. 6 Ii
" SS
30 s 6 1
6, "
50 .. 12 {
6, "

"

" s: "
.... .. ...."

"

19 MARIPOSA,., , .. ,,, .. ,, .... 24. Mariposa, •....•.. \Mariposa, . .••• .•. • May
20 GEORGETOWN,...... .. ..... , 25 Georgetown, . .... El Dorado,......... "
21 EL DORADO,. .............. 26 Placerville, ...... . El Dorado,....... .. "
22 TBINITY,.................. 27 Weaverville,...... •rrinity, .. .. ........
"
~ COLUJOIIA, ................ 28 Columbia, ........ Tuolumne, .........
.• DIAlllOND, ................. 29 Diamond Springs,. El Dorado,......... "
30
San
Francisco,.
..•
San
Francisco,
.....
23 GOLDEN GATE,....... . .. . ..
"
~ MOBELUHNE,. ......... . .... 31 Mokelumne Hill, .. Calaveras,. ........
"
24. GOLD HILL, ..... .... ..... 32 Lincoln, ......... Placer, . ........... "
33
Murphy's,
.•......
Calaveras,
.
•.
;,
•••.
"
25 OPHIR, ...................
t SANTA CLARA,, ,, .. ,,, ... , 34 Santa Clara, . ....• Santa Clara,. • • .... "
26 SAN DIBGO, ........ ....... 35 San Diego,. ....... San Diego, .. . . ... . . "
• BUTTE,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Bidwell, .......... Butte,............. May
27 SAINT JOHN'S, ............ 37 Yreka, ..... . . ..... Siskiyou, .......... "
28 SANTA 0Ruz, .............. 38 Santa Cruz,....... Santa Cruz, .•••.. .. "
29 YUBA, ................... 39 Marysville, ....... Yuba, ............. "
30 SACRAMENTO,.............. 40 Sacramento,. ..... Sacramento, ....... "u
31 MARTINEZ, ... . ............ 41 Martinez, •..•..•. Contra Costa, •••••• u
32 Los .ANGELKB, ............. 42 Los Angeles, ..•.. Los Angeles, .... . ..
33 HIRAM, . ......... . ........ 43 El Dorado, . ...... El Dorado,.........
u
34. MOUNT MORIAH, .. ..•• , , , •. 44 San Francisco,... . San Francisco,.....
35 CRESCENT, ................ 46 Crescent City, ..•• Del Norte, ..... , .•. "
San
Benito,
....
,
...
36 TEXAS,. ............ ...... 46 San Juan, .. •...•.
37 MICHIGAN CITY,........... 47 Michigan Bluff,.., . Placer, . . . . ........ H
GRASS VALLEY,.. ,. .... , ., 48 Grass Valley,. .•.. Nevada, ...........
t LEBANON, ................ , 49 San Francifico, .... San Francisco,. .... H
38 FORBESTOWN, " • , . , , , , , , , , 60 Forbestown,...... Butte,......... ... . H
39 ILLINOIBTOWN,. .......... , 61 Colfax, ... .. , ..•.. Placer, ....... ... ..
'° RoUGH & REA.DY,..,,,,,,,, 62 Rough & Ready, .. Nevada, ..... ... ...
• FRANKLIN, ................ 53 Sacramento, ...... Sacramento, ..... . , "
• SAINT JAMES',. ........... 54 amestown, ...... Tuolumne, ......... May
4.0 SUISUN,............... .... 55 Suisun, ........... Solano, ............
41 VoLOANo,. ................ 56 Volcano, ......... Amador,.......... .
4.2 SANTA RosA,. ............. 57 Santa Rosa, ... • •. Sonoma, .....•••••
4.3 UNION,. .................. 58 Sacramento,...... Sacramento, .... ... H
44 GRAVEL R.uiGJll, •. ,., ... , . 59 Camptonville, .•• . Yuba, .••..•.•••••.
46 PLUMAS,. . . .. . • .. . • . . • .. . • 60 Quincy,. .. . ....... Plumas, .. ........ .
46 LIVE OAK,. .... , .... ...... 61 Oakland, ......... Alameda, .. ....... "
4.7 GEORGE WASHINGTON,.,,,, 62 Chinese Camp,.... Tnolumne,. •...•••. H
• loWA HILL,............... 63 Iowa Hill,. ....... Placer, ............

~

l San Francisco, ... San Francisco,. .. .. April 19, 1860. 50 .. 12 18 17 15 5 .. 3 4 .. . . . 8
6 4 48l
2 Shasta,.......... . Shasta,............ "
"
"
30 •. 12
.. . 1 1 3
51
~TEHAMA,..................
3 Sacramento,. ..... Sacramento,....... "
"
"
75 5 6 5 5 5 8 I .. .
.. 6
113
•JENNINGS, .. .. .. .. . .. .. • .. 4 Sacramento,.... .. Sacramento,....... "
"
"
4 BENIOIA,...... .... .. .. .. .. 5 Benicia,. ......... Solano,............ "
"
''.
50 .. 12
1 2 2 2.. 2
1
53
•SUTTER, . • . .. .. • .. .. . .. .. . 6 Sacramento,. ..... Sacramento,. ...... May 7, "
1' SAN FRANOIBOO,.... .. .. .. '1 San Francisco,.... San Francisco,..... Nov. 27, "
....
~'TUOLUMNE,................
8 Sonora,. .......... Tuolumne, .. .. • .. . "
"
"
50 2 6
5 6 3 2
.. 2 1 4 105
6 CORINTHIAN,.............. 9 Marysville, ....... Yuba,.............. "
"
"
50 .. 6 l 3 11 II
I .
.. . . .. .. l
5 1 90
7 SAN JosE,................. 10 Sau Jose,. ........ Santa· Clara,....... "
"
"
50.. 9 6 5 5 7 .. 2
5
3 1 204
t WILLAMETTE,............. 11 Portland,. ........ Oregon Territory,.. " " "
.. . .. .
~I YOUNT,............... • .. 12 Napa, ............ Napa,. ............ May 6, 1861. 50 .. 9
4 2 2 2 I 5
.. 2
5 3 90
{I NEVADA,.................. 13 Nevada,. .. ; ...... Nevada,.......... .
"
.. ..
50 .. 6
I 1 I 2 .. l ........ s . .. 1 129
1Cl TEMPLE,... .. • .. .. .. .. .. .. 14 Sonoma,..... .. • .. Sonoma,...... . .... "
"
"
50 Ii 6
3 3 3 2 .. .. S .. . .. 1
3 1 43
LA FAYETTE, . ............ 15 La Fayette,. ...... Oregon Territory,.. "
9, "
.. ...
.. .
.. ... .
1 EUREKA, .................. 16 Auburn,.......... Placer, ...... ...... Nov. 7, "
50 .. 6
2 2 2 1
1
.. 4.
48
1 .. 2
3... 106
12 PARFAITE UNION,.......... 17 San Francisco,. ... San Francisco, ..... May 6, 1862. 75 5 12 5 3 ll .. . .. 2 ...
.. "
50 .. 6
2 2 2 2 1... . .. . .. .. ..
.. !17
l 3 MOUNTAIN SHADE,......... 18 Downie ville, ...... Sierra,............. "
"
"
50 .. 6
2 2 2 2 .. 1 4 .. . .. 2
1
98
14 SAN JOAQUIN,............. 19 Stockton,. ........ San Joaquin, • .. . .. "
l 5 WASHINGTON,............. 20 Sacramento, . : ... Sacramento,....... "
"
"
75 1 9 3 2 2 .. . .. .. . . ..
3
2 . .. 72
16 HAWAIIAN, .. .. . .... .. .. .. 21 Honolulu,. .. . ..... Hawaiian Islands,. . "
"
"
50 5 12 7 6 7 6 .. 14 . .. . .. 1
S 2 127
50 .. 12 8 6 4 3 5 6 2 .. . .. 4.
5 2 207
17 OoOIDENTAL,..... ... • .. .. • 22 San Francisco,. .. San Francisco,..... " 20, "
1
1 2 _ 3 .. 2 ... . .... 1 .. . . .. 130
l 8 MADISON,............. .... 23 GraBB Valley, . .... Neva~ ... .._•. ._._._._M~i_ 6, 185~._._8
NOTE. Those Lodges In the present list marked thus• have surrendered their charters-those marked thus t have had their charters revoked.:..those marked
thus i are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Oregon-those marked thus§ are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Nevada-those
marked thus I are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Arizon......and those marked thus 'U have consolidated as follows : Mary•ville, No, 9, and
Corinthian, No. 69, under the designation of Corinthian, No. •9 ; Saint John' I, No. 37, and Si1kiyou, No. 105, under the designation of Saint John's, No. 37 ;
Tuolumne, No. 8, Mnunt J•J!er•on, No. 107, a.nil Columbia, No. 28, unilflr the des!Rnatlon of Tuolumne, No. 8; Colma, No. 1'2, and Equality, No. 240, under the
designation of Co!ula, No. 240; Saint Louil, No. 86, a.nd Gib1onvi!le, No. 158, under the desigll$tlon of Gib•onville, No. 158; Mokelumm, No. 31, a.nd Calavll1'<U,
No. 78, under the designation of Ca!aver<U, No. 78; Natoma, No. 64, and Latrobe, No. 189, under the designation of Natoma, No. 64; and Nebr1UJka, No. 71, and I~
No. 80, under the designation of Ione, No. 80.-GEOBGE JOHNSON, Gr &c.

L 0 D GB B.

1 CALIFORNIA,...... • .. .. • •
2 WESTERN STAR, .. .. .. .. .. •

0 F

NAH E B

Cll

to

00

LIST OF THE SUBORDINATE LODGES,
With a Summary of their Reports for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 5895.

L 0 D GE 8.

I

·"' .; ill
l 'li _gl-2

II

td

-I

..... 11.,;

..

..

..

"

"

"

..

• MOUNT HEBHON,......... .. 94 Elizabethtown, .. . Plumas, . . . . ..... . May 8, 1856.
67 HENRY CLAY,. .• · ....... •• 95 Sutter Creek, . . . .. Amador,
" " "
68 HOWARD, .. ....... · ·• .... . 96 Yreka, ........ .. . Siskiy ou, ... . .. .. .
.
..........
Plumas,
.
........
Porte,
69 J EFFEBSON, . • . · · · · • • · • .. .. 97 La
70 llORNITOS, •.•. · • •• • • • •" • • 98 Hornitos,. . • • . . .•. Mariposa, •....•...
71 LA GRANGE,.. .•••..•.••. •• 99 Merced,. • . .. . .... Merced, ........ .
72 CAMPO Ssoo,. . ....•.... .. . 100 Campo Seco,. .••. Calaveras, .•...•..
73 CLAY,. .•....••.••.•••••. 101 Dutch Flat, ..... .. Placer, ....••••••
74 MANZANITA,. ...........••. 102 North San Juan,.. Nevada, ..... . . . ..
75 OROVILLE,. ..•••.. · · · • • • • • 103 Oroville,.. .. . . .. . . Butte, ... .. . . ... .
76 LEXINGTON,. ...... • ...• ••• 104 El• Moote , . .• ... . . Los Angeles, ..•. ~.
l~,
'II' SISKIYOU,. . ••.• • .. · • · · • • • • 105 Henley,. ... . ..... Siskiyou, .. .. . .... .
77 ARCATA, ....... ·····• .. ••• 106 Arcata, . . ...... .. Humboldt,. ...•... May 14, 1857.
"
"
'II' MOUNT JEFFERSON,. .••.••. 107 Garrote,. ... . ..... Tuolumne,. . .. ... . fC
78 OWEN, . ................. . 108 Scott's Bar,. . ...•. Siskiy ou,. . ....... .
• DIBBLE,················'· 109 Omega, .... . ..... Nevada, •.•....•..
79 PAJARO,.. ' .............. . llO Watsonville,. ...•. Santa Cruz,. .... ..
80 Cmoo,. ........ . . · • · • •• • • • lll Chico, ........•... Butte, ....... . ... .
81 SUMMIT, ................. . 112 Knight's Ferry, •. . Stanislaus, .• ......
82EDEN, ..... ···• ..... · • ... . ll3 San Leandro,. .... Alameda,.. .. .... .
83 MOUNT ZION, .........••••• ll4 Grizzly Flat,.. . .. . . El Dorado,. ....•..
'II' SAINT MARK'S, . . ...... .. . . no Fiddletown, ...... .A.mador, •.•..• . ...
• WINDSOR, ......... · · ··••• • ll6 Windsor, . ... . .... Sierra, ....... ... . .
15, "
84 CONCO.RD, ................ . 117 Sacramento, •. . .. • Sacramento, ..... .
• V ALLECITO, .. .. . • .. · • • • • • • 118 Vallecito,• ... .. . . Calaveras, ..•.••.. May 13, 1858.
85 CLINTON, .•• . .••..••••••••• 119. Igo, .. . .. ......... Shasta, .. .. .. . . .. . "
" "
86 FIDELITY,.. . . · . ... • • • • • • · • 120 San Francisco,.... San Francisco, .•..
.
..........
Placer,
121
........
Hill,
Iowa
87 foNIO,.. •••• • .. • • · · .. • "• •
88 ALAMO,.................. . 122 Walnut Creek, .... Contra Costa, . .•••
"
89 8oTOYOHl'l, . . . . · . • • .. • • • • 123 Eealdsburg, ...... Sonoma,. ........ .
90 TABLE MOUNTAIN, .•.•. · ··· 124 Cherokee ,.. ..... Butte, ........... .
t P.ROGRESS, ............... . 125 San Francisco, .... San Francisco,. ••.
91 LA FAYETTE,......... . ... . 126 Sebastopo l, ...... . Sonoma,. ...•.•.•.
92 liERMANN, ... • • .. • • • • · • "• 127 San Francisco,. ... San Francisco,. ...
93 VISALIA, ................. . 128 Visalia, . . ......... Tulare , ...•.... . •• May 14, 1859.
94 NICOLAUS, ......... •" .. •• 129 Wheatland, ...... Yuba, . , ...... .. . . " 13, "
••
"
• UNITYt•· ······· ·••••••••••· 130 San Bernardino, • . San Bernardino,.
95 WooDB.RIDGB, ... . ..... · · · · 131 Woodbridge, ....• San Joaquin,
96 8INOEBITY, , ...... • • .... • • 132 Taylorsville, ..... Plumas, ... ....... .
97 ,YOSEMITE, ....... • • • • .. • •·• 133 Coulterville, ...... Mariposa, : . • •.•...

.."

U

2, 1866.
H

~

11

··21::: ::: ::: :: 'i :::

..

1 1 1

11

~ .~

1

1

2.3

:. ~ .....~ ··~1·~
50 10 6 . • .

6

. ii . :

4

1

30 •• 9 • • .• ··•· ··'• .. , ..

·6 ·:2 .. i "i ::: :: 1
·so::
60 6 6 ......

76 10 12 10 11 10 2 1 ll
75 . . 4 11 1 l 4 ll
l .. . 2 "i
6 '
30 l

so :: ·5 "&"' ··7· ·2·i 1

110 .. 6 4 4 4 1 ..
50 .. 6 ••. 1 1 .•..•

S0 .. 6 4 4 2 1 ..

60 10 12 17 16 13 2 ..
5 0 6 6 3 3 3 ... 1

75 . . Ii

6 .. s::
8-0 :: '6 ::: ::: "i " i ::

~g~ ~ ..~ .s .. ~J::

72
12

21"il:::l"77

. . .•
1...

~

i

~

~

~
~

L-1

?'

~

00

....

.!'"'

~

~

f

a
i

~
O"

1

···
8'61 1...
.. .

6 .. .

s .. .

.~I..

20
9

68

~ .. ~~
4 ...

2 ••

86

:I 113

4. ..

1

21 2 "i "67

1 ......

~1 ..~1 ..~ 5169

Ql

e

.i.

.~I: :~I· :~I 2~~29 ~
11:::
....
·-s
38
1
2, ...

......

1 .. . ... 100
2 1... 26

.. :: : :: : •'83

19

22

71

'ii::: ::: "76

l

~g :i ff ff '?l:i " i ' .. .
6 0 6 6 1 1 1 . .... J .... .

6, .. .

·31: ::

'

l...
1 1

.~ •• • 1• ••

i

73
23
73
43
2 1
1 . ..
. l
ll. .. I.. I..

17
4...
.
3

60: : '6 ::: ::: ::: : ..

15 ·5i:i ··3 .., "6 :::

3 0 1 6 6 4 4 1 ••

I

1
1
60 .. 6 s 3
so 5 6 ........... .

21

60 5 6 .•.•••..• /.. .

1 •..•. 2 ... • . .

26

1 .. . . .

1

1

50 .. 6 8 8 8 .. . 1

75 . . 6 . . .

::: ::: "59
.. ·1··1·2
616 •.••
• 1 6 . .. 62
s ... "i "i]"il::

1

60 6

•

66

35
16

·1···1 .. ·1··1'···· 3921
.
. .. 2 . .
8015161 . .. •••I•••••• . . , . .1. 1.......
50 I 6 ..• •• · I••••••
11 4 ........ 1••• .

·...
·······1

72

:i·., ...6:: : :·:i·s .2 ..ii.i23

1

ll'il"il''29
50
/iO 1 6 6 2 ll 1 1 . . • . • 1 • • . • . . 1 . . 1
63 5 12 ..... . ...... ~ . .. • • • . . . • • . . . 2 • • •

i4 .., :
1
1 1
50 '51'61:::'""''" '"'

·5i·3i·ii .

iii.

i,"i
mJ:r·~1::i;··~ "21~:,
3 •. 6 7

·I

42
"i .., ::
50
8 . • .. • 3 • . • • • 63
30 1 6 . . • . • • • • . • . • 1
29
.
•...
.
30 .. 6 . .• .• •••• 1 .. 1 1 ..••...
60 . 6 8 8 7 6 t 2 . • • . . • • . . 4 l 1 172
1 .. • •... 2 1 • • • 47
30 .. 6 ... • •• . .. 1 • • .
30 .. 6 • .. • • • . .• ' . . • • • 2 • . . . . • • • . 1 l • . • 22

·3 '6 "2 ''i

••li••I•••

i'

~

44

'60 :: '6 "2 ··2 ··2 ::: 'i "li "3 ::: ::: 'i ·5 "i 'i28
'5i>I' 5/·31 ··a1· ·ii'·ii' ·i · ··· ·31 .. a1:: :I:: l ii ·51· ·ii·ioo

1

""

~

1. .. .. . . . . 1 1

°'
~

62
·1 12 .. .. •• •. ... . . 1. •2...
. • • 44

60 l ti 2 . 2 2 1 •••••
l 1 ..... . .
60 6 9 I
50 . . 6 • . . . • . . . . • . • • • 2

;Ii!

l'i ... i

---

• ~ g~ P§ •
g: ~
s 'i e f)~ rS ~
..; '3
CHARTER WAS ~ .s ~ ~ ai ai ~R~'a~;:i.:ei.a
$ $ ~ 11 ! -a
ORDERED.
ii-m~maSMm
'iil
'"' '"' ..; .... ~ o:; ~ 1~ 1 Ii= cll~clla 1>1 Ji:i ~

DATEWHEN

64 Folsom,. . ... .•. . . Sacramento,. • • .••• May
65 Jackson, •..•...•. Amador,.......... .
66 Alleghany,. ..... Siena,. ..• . ..•••.•.
67 !Minnesota, ....... Siena, ........... .
68 1stockton, •...•••• San Joaquin,•.••...
69 Marysville, . . •••.. Yuba, ••.•... • .•••.
70 !Yuba City,. .....• Sutter,.......... , .
71 Michigan Bar,. .. • Sacramento, ....••
72 Nevada, .... . ..... Nevada, ..•.•.....
73 IDrytown, .... . ... Amador,. • • •..••••
74 1Wisc onsin Hill, ... Placer, .....••••..
76 !Eureka North,. ... Siena, •.••....•••.
16 I.Angel's Camp,.... Calaveras, ....... •
77 Petaluma, . ..••••. Sonoma,. ...•...•.
78 San Andre!IS ... ... Calaveras, .•...•.•
79 Eureka, .••. : ..••. Humlaoldt,. .•.....
80 Ione,. ... . ........ Amador, ........ .
81 Yolo1..: .... . ...... Yolo,............. .
82 Don redro's Bar,. Tuolumne,. •..••••
83 Forest Bill,. .•••. Placer, .....• •• •..
84 Red Bluff, •... . .•. Tehama,. ........•
85 Plymouth ,•... . •• . Amador, •.••.• • •.
86 Howland Flat, .•• Siena,......•..•••
87 Vallejo,. ......... Solano,. . . . ...... .
88 North Bloomfield, Nev ada, ••.• •• •.••
89 Smartsville,. •••. Yuba,..••. .. •.....
90 Poor Man's Creek,. Plumas,. .•••.•....
91 Fort Jones, ...... Siskiyou, . .. . .... .
92 Coloma,. . ....•.•. El Dorado, ....••••
93 St. Helena,. •... . . Napa, ••.•..•••••.

OOUNTY.

I

!.8
TOWN.

PLAOE OF LOOATION.

~

=-= 1-

48 NATOMA,.................
49 AllADOR,.......... , • • • . • ..
50 FOREST,... . ........... ., ..
• MlNNESOTA,. .. . . . • • . .. .. ..
61 MORNINO BTAR,........... .
v CORINTHIAN,. .............
52 ENTERPRISE,.. • • • • . .. .. .. .
v NEBRASKA, .. • • • • • .. .. .. • .
• E. K. KANE,. ..............
• TYRO, ....................
.. WISCONSIN HILL,..........
• MOUNTAIN FOREST,........
53 BEAR MOUNTAIN,. ••••• , .••
64 PETALmu, . • . • • • .. . • • . • • .
55 CALAVERAS, ...•• , •.•• , •.,
56 HIDCBOLDT,................
57 foNE, . .................. ,
58 YOLO, ....................
• MOUNTAIN, • .. • • • • .. .. .. • .
69 RISING STAR,. . . . • • • • • • .. • .
60 VESPER, . . . . . . • • • • . . . . • • • •
t SAINT MARK 1B, • • . . • . .. . • .
'II' SAINT Loms,... . • • .. . . .. • .
61 NAVAL,. ... . ..............
62 QUITMAN, ..... . ..........
63 ROBE'S BAB,.. . • • • • • . • • • • . .
• POLAR STAB,..............
64 NORTH BTAB,..............
66 AOAOIA., ................ ,.
66 SAINT BBLmu, . . . . .. . • . • .

0 F

=--=--NAMES

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.- Continued.

LODGES.

I

iz II
z!
TOWN.

l'LACE

OF

I
COUNTY.

LOCATION.
ORDERED.

CHARTER WAS

DATE WHEN

I
I'<

"Cl>

r>o

Cl>
Cl>

.2~ , .s~

! ~
1 ·

-d

r

!l .., ~
~

2, .. .

·6olioli2J· isl· isl· i11· ·41::1"4i"51:::

1·. 41:::

::;j

'

8

·l

1
3

3

1
1 ...
1 1
1 ...

48
76

l

14
30

39

77

..i ::r21
......
....
1

11:: :
1 ••.
1 ··'

. ..

2 .. .

· ·· •· · 1-····

1 ...
1 I
1
l

'

46
183
33
114
72

33
24

... , ...64

. ..

2 .. . . ..

I

... ... . .. ....
. ·2 133
2

&:

13;

0

6'

·a ·io

al

'1·. ·1 ..

•1· ..

:::1:::1 ..

"21

.·1·.. ......

2,..1···1
... ··i1:::1::i:::1
1.....,. .... i1:::1

2r

117 JilxCELSIOR,. ... ...... , ••••• 166 San Francisco, • . . San Francisco, . ..• ,Oct. 13, 1864.
118 ALAllEDA , ••••• ., •••••••• • 167 Centreville, ••••.. Alameda, . ... . .. . "
76110,12,
60
.. 410110110
, 1 1 6 8 ..21 _61
1 ;; .. .. .. 21
i. ..21 .....· 1 218
76
" "
119 SAN MATEO, ............. . 168 Redwood City, . . •. San Mateo,. ..... .
50 . . 6 8 3 8 1 1 1 .... ... . 1 2 . • . 69
120 MI~SION, ............. . . . . 169 San Francisco, ... San Francisco, . .•.
60 l 12 21 18 21 7 1 7
5 7 1 296
§ EsMERALDA, ............ . 170 Aurora, ..••...... Nevada Territory,.
§ EB<JUBIAL, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 171 Virginia City, ..... Nevada Territory,.
& LANDER, ....... .. ... •••••• 172 Austin, .......... Nevada Territory,. " 14
121 ELK GROVE, • • .. • • ...... . 173 Elk Grove, .•.••. . Sacramento, .••••. Oct.
1865.
1
39
301 51
122 DRYTOWN, •••• , .......... . 174 Drytown, ... . .... Amador, .. ..... .. "
60
6 611
9 2 1 11
1... 17
" "
128 ANTIOCH,. •••••••••••••••• 175 Antioch,......... Contra Costa,. •.••
60 .. 12
12, ''
8 1 2 2 s 6 • . . . • 1 3 2 37
.. MERCED, ................. . 176 Snelling,. ......... Merced, .•.•......
"
u
••• l oo • l•• l ••o l• • o loool• .•l••ol • • • l• • o l ••••
II AZTLAN,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 177 Prescott,. ........ Arizona Territory, Oct. 11, 1866.
••• • •• • •••••••I··•
12l PHCENIX,.. ... ......... , , •• 178 San Bernardino,.. San Bernardino,.. . "
::
60
8
"i 8 8 103
" " 50 .. 12 2 2 7 6 1 6 10
125 MENDOCINO,. .. . . . . , .... .. 179 Mendocino,., .... . Mendocino, ...... .
1 2 . .. 66
2 ·' · . • 2 .. .
125 ARcTUBUS, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180 Petaluma, ........ Sonoma, ........ ..
so 1 6 6 6 6 II l 1 21• ••
1 2 ... 104
127 RUSSIAN RIVER, .......... . 181 Windsor, ......... Sonoma, ....... . .. "
30 1 3 8 s 4 .. .• .. . I .. . ........ . ... 40
128 MERIDIAN, .• , ••••••••• • ••. 182 College City ...... Colusa,. ......... . Oct. 10, 1867. 30 .• ~ ... 1 1 ..... 2 s .. .
1 6... 40
129 CLEAR LAKE, .'••• ::• ••••• , 183 Lower Lake, ..... Lake, ........... . "
" ., so .. 6 2 2 s 1 . . . .• 3 .. .
1 ... 27
130 SIERRA VALLEY, ••••••••• , 184 Sierra ville,. .... .. Sierra, . ........ .
so 2 6 ...
. .. . .. ... 1 .. .
.. . ... ..• 24
181 CLAIBORNE, ' ............ . 185 Point Arena, ..... Mendocino, . .••••.
60 .. 12 1 l
1 . . . .. • .. 1 .. .
33
132 EVENING STAR,'. ••• • ••• ."•• • 186 Etna Mills, ........ Siskiyou, .. . ... .. ..
60 .. 6 1 2 2, • •• . • 2 1 • •. .• ... ... . .• 38
133 KEITH, .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 187 Gilroy, ....... . ... Santa Clara, . .... . Oct. 16, 1868. 30 1 12 1
.
8.
.
1
1
...
..
,
'
1
.
..
67
U
.H
134 OAKLAND, ....... : • ....... 188 Oakland, ......... Alameda, ....... . h
60 112 7 8 8 2 1 6 ...
. . 8 4 2 273
'If LATROBE, •• •••••••••• • •••• 189 Latrobe, ..... . .. , El Dorado,...... . .
"i ··2 ::: ··49
135 NORTHERN LIGHT,.,., : •••• 190 Mill ville, . . ....... Shasta, . ........ ..
·35 :: 6 "i 1 1 ·:: :: :·:
136 MARIN, .... ... ........... . 191 San Rafael,. ....• • Marin, . .......... .
60 . . 12 6 8 6 4 2 2 •••.. . .. 2 1 '
66
137 SANTA BARBARA,.,.,, , , •• , 192 Santa Barbara, .•. Santa Barbara, •..
8 8 . . . • 2 l .. . .. 2 4 1 69
.50 ..
138 FERNDALE,..... . ........ .. 193 Ferndale, ..•..••. Humboldt,. .•.. ••. Oct. 14, 1869. 60 .. 8 4 s 4 1 .......
2 1 61
139 MOUNTAIN VIEW, . . . . . . . . . . 194 Mountain View, •. Santa Clara, .••... "
so 6 6 6 r; 6 ' . . •.•
u
2. . . 41
" ,," so 1 6. ' .
140 BUCKEYE,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195 Winters, . . ....... Yolo, ........... . "
I 1 ......... ..
11 1... 46
141 SAN SJMEON,. ..... .. . ........ . 196 Cambria,. ..••.... San Luis Obispo, .
so
..
6
•••
2 l 28
"
• p ARADISE, •• , ............ . 197 Haywards, ...•... Alameda, ..... . . .
142 WILMINGTON,. , •• , , , , .... . 198 Wilmington, ..... Los Angeles, ..... .
so
..
'~"8
..
,
··9
..
6
::
._.i
"9'·
··
1 1 58
"
143 HARTLEY, •••••••• , ..... ,. 199 Lakeport, ... . •... Lake, ...•• . ....•. "
1 8 ... 46
30 .• 6 5 8 3 6 s l ••~ .. .
144 TRUCKEE, ............. , •• , 200 Trnckee,. .••.•••• Nevada,. ...••.•. .
I 1 75
6 0 6 6 6 5 1 1 2 .. 2
.. .
"
146 SILVEYVILLE,. ........... , 201 Dixon , .. .. ....... Solano, . ........ .
60 .. 9 8 7 7 1 . . 1 .... .. '""'2 1... 54
146 PENTALPHA ............. . 202 Los Angeles,. .... Los Angeles, ....• "
60 . . 6 10 10 9 17 s l6 lJ
6 s 1 308
147 CONFIDENCB,. ••• •• , ••
203 Castroville, •..... Monterey, ..•..••.
36 3 6 2 2 1 1 • • 1 •••
1 . 1 20
148 SALINAS, ................. . 204 Salinas, ...... .... Monterey, ...... ..
40..
1 ..•... 1 •.
l s ... 89
" 1870. 60
14.9 NEWVILLE, ••• •• •••••••••• 205 Newville,. ....... tlleno,. . .... .... .. Oct. 14,
16 . 2 2 1 ......... ... .
1 48
··;···

13:

·· ·1··1··1· .. 1····1···'""

so 'i

"s ·:~1:~1::~1::~1:: :
:: :: ·so:: ·s::::.:: ::. :·· ·· ···

~~ ~t· 1~~3·1 ·30 .i

0

1 3 63
l ... 30
12 ... . .. 356

£ ... ·- . "
iii ;::l
...
~!il:J3!Uls~A~

~;y l~, 1~~1. 1 ·~g ~i ~~ .. ~ ..: .~~ ::~ :ii:: ~1: :~1:::

li',

~
..

~

1-oi mI "".

~~
I
~,I~ ~~ 1 ~1~
" :l3
~- ~-:! '~° .,;~1<;. ~I~

~ '§ ~ §'88
J :: ~ cS'
"~o .s.s
~ .!!~

•

98 VACAVILLE, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134 Vacaville,. •...... Solano,. ...... ... . May 13, 1869. , 30161121 61 61 3, ... 1· . 21
99 VALLEY, ...... ••••••• ... 135 Linden,. . . .. ...•• . San Joaquin, ... .. . May 11, 1860. SO .. 6 . . . . • • .. . . • · .. 1 ..... .
May 10, 1860. 76 6 9 . . . . • • 1 2 .. 6 5 ...
100 PACIF!O, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136 San Francisco, . .•• San Francisco, .
" ,, " •••l••l••ll ool•••
• ORO FINO, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 137 Oro Fino, .•.•.... Siskiyou, ......•..
.. VIOLET, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138 Spanish Flat, ..... El Dorado, ..•••• •.
San
Francisco,
...
San
Francisco,
.
••.
101 CROCKETT, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 139
S0 . • 6 6 6 4 .. .
102 CURTIS, . . . . . . . . . : • ....... 140 Cloverdale, .•..•. Sonoma,. ••••••.•.
60 6 s ........... ........ ,... ,.. .
lOJ GRAFTON, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141 Grafton, ......... Yolo, •...... .••• .. "
Colusa,
..........
Colusa,
.
•.•.......
'If COLUSA, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 142
104 FRANKLIN, •• , ..... , ..... . . 143 Courtland, ....•.. Sacramento, . .... .
105 ORIENTAL, .. ..... .... " ... 144 San Francisco, .. . San Francisco, ..•.
30 1 3 2 '
2 1 . . 1 2 ...
106 VITRUVIUS, .... .... . .... .. 145 Bloomfield, ....... Sonoma, •.••... . .
50 . . 6 1 2 2 2 . . • . . 6 •..
107 ABELL, . • • ••••••• ........ . 146 Ukiah, •... . . .. ... Mendocino, ..• •. ..
17, "
40 6 6 1 1 1 1 ..
lOR EEL RrVEB, . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 147 Rohnerville, .••... Humboldt, ...... ..
.. SAN LI.TIS OBISl'O, •••••••• • 148 San Luis Obispo, .. San Luis Obispo,..
1~~2 •. 60 .i .6 ..i .. 2 .. 5 ~:: ::
109 LASSEN' •• ' • • • .......... . 149 Susanville, . .. •. .. Lassen., . .....•.•. May
6 0 5 6 1 1 1 . .. ..•.....
110 MOLINO, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150 Tehama, ....•.... Tehama, ...••.... " " "
16, "
30 6 6 1 3 2 2 . . 2 .. .
111 PALMYRA, ... .. .......... . 151 Placerville, ...... El Dorado, ....•..
15,
* JOSEPHUS,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.52 Brush Creek, . .... Butte, ... •. ....•..
Brandy
City,
....
.
Sierra,
....•......
153
.. RISING SUN ............... .
"
·· ·l·····•···l·••t .......•. .•...•...
§ CARSON, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 154 Carson City, . .. . . Nevada Territory,.
.. MOUNT CARMEL, . . . . . . . . . . . 155 RedDog, ......... Nevada,. ........ .
Woodland
,
..
....•
.
Yolo,
.
.....
.
....
.
112 WOODLAND,••••••••••• ,.• . 156
.6 .. :i ":i
§ WASHOE, ............ , ... . 157 Washoe City,. .... Nevada Territory,.
1 ···
113 GIBSONVILLE,. .......... . . 158 Gibsonville, ....• . Sierra, . ... .... . .
• GILROY, •••.••••••••••••• . 159 Gilroy,. ..••...... Santa Clara, .••...
'6 "i .. i ..i ::.
114 PILOT HILL, ••• , ........ . 160 Pilot Hill, .. ..... . El Dorado, ...... .
602t 6 . ....... .
115 KEYSTONE, • , ••••• , , , ,. ••. 161 Milton,. .•........ Calaveras,. .••••..
VIRGINIA CITY, ........... . 162 Virginia City, ... • Nevada Territory,.
" 16
SILVER CITY, .. . ... J,. '·' ••. 163 Silver City,. ...... Nevada Territory,.
ii:::
1864. 76 .. 6 .. . •••.••
116 HARMONY' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 164 Sierra City,. ...... Sierra,.. . . . . • • . .. Oct.
§ )SILVER BTAB,.,, , , ....... . 165 Gold Hill, . . ...... Nevada Territory,.
"

OF

I< AMES

.,
~. I.

List of the Subor4inate Lodges, et,c.- Continued.

ti)

~

~-

~

<;'.:)

..§c ·

~

~

~

l

~
~

?1
.........,

~

.....
00

.....

~
qQ

~

~

Q

t"'I

Cl>

·~
~
[

O.:i

Cl>

....;::,-.

~

t"'I
&;·
"""

~

Ol

LODGES.

izI/~~~~~,------~~~~
I
'TOWN.

COUNTY.

PLACE OF LOCATION.
ORDERED.

CHARTER WAS

DATE WHEN

"'
I,\!

..

~

~

"'

"O

i;i -~.,;«> ~11
•
•

aS

_,

og

.

"CS

Q

N°§ "O.
~ ff
... -'"' ...

tS

..

j

~1-.~

~

J

..

..

2

I

2 •••

- 1 ••..

41···..
.,....

~

. s s

..
.,, ......· ...
.. .. "60 :: i2 ::: ::· ::: ::: ·; ::: ""i''"

I

6, 1874. 50 . • 8

..

8, ..

·~gl:il'~ ··~ ··: -~~ ""i -~

6

11!1

*

*

*

•

"

"

"

..

"

so ..

.. . .
1

so ••

60 "i i2 ::: ::: ::: ::: :: ::: :::
'l".
u
so ..

so

60 :: ·5 "ii ··4 .., ::: ·2 ··2 :::

,

36

26

126
41

1l"ij"6 ~g
95
..... . ...... 23

31
35

"'i ··2 "60

123
236
32
41

53
48
33

31

41

14
38

29

82
116

68

54
97
57
50
100

..: ::: ::: "24

~. ·2

11 ~r:

s ...

i

'6 "8 "2 "2 ::: ·2 ··2 ··31::Jil::: ·······

s s s ...
s

1sso.,.6ii':: "6 ::: ::: ::: ::: "i "L::1:::

,,

"

"

"
,,

"

TYRE , .................. . 238 Gold Ron,. ....... Placer, ..•.....••. Oct • 14, 1871S........... . ....... .
"
PESCADERO, •. •• ....... ••• 239 Pescadero,.. .... San Mateo,.... . • • .
2 2 ...
180 C OLUSA, • •• • ' ........ .. . 240 Colusa,.. . .. . . . . Colusa,... . • • .. • • • "
8 8 6 IS 2 4 ..... .
Cl 181 ~ANTA ANA,. • • ,, .. ,.•• •• 241 Santa Ana, .•••••• Orange, ... ....... Oct. 12, 1876. 50 1 6
2 1 . ..
•.....
1
1
50 . . 6
"
..
0 182 MAGNOLIA,. , ••••• , , •••• , 242 Santa Barbara, .. 8anta Barbara, • • . "
1 • .• • . .
SO IS 6 2 8 8 1 .. ~ S ...
"
"
183 EucALYPTus, .. .... . .... . 243 Raywards,. ...••. Alameda,......... "
2 2 1
4 1 2 5 ' - ..
184 ALCATRAZ, •••• , . • , •• , •• • 244 West Oakland, •.. Alameda, • ... . ..•• Oct. 11, 1877. 60 .. 12 4
. 1. ..
" 6 0 . . 6 4 8 3 2 2 1 4 •..
'' ..
185 LAUREL, ..... ......... . , 245 Willows,. ........ Glenn,.......... .
1
1
30 . . 6 7 6 8 6 . . 9 l •..
"
"
186 POMONA, .............. .. 246 Pomona, •••...• , Los Angeles, . • • • • "
II 8 •••
8 4 12 • • 2 !.IS ; ••
187 FRESNO, ............ ,,, •• 247 Fresno,. ......... Fresno, .......... Oct. 10, 1878. 40 . . 6 '
Ui 112... ... . .. ... . . I .•.
"
"
188 ALTURAS, ....... • . ...... . 248 Alturas, ......... Modoc,.......... . "
1 .. .
60 .• 12 ................. •••
"
"
189 GREENVILLE, .. , , .. , .... , 249 Greenville, • • • • • Plumas,.......... "
30 1 6 ...................... .
..
·~
190 ADIN,,.,.,,, ..... , ; •••••• 250 Adln, ...•........ Modoc, ......... ..
u
"
BROTHERHOOD, , ••• • • , , •• 251 Duncan's Mills, .. . Sonoma, .... , . •.• .
3
191 BoDIE, .... ..... .. . ...... . 252 Bodie,.. ... . ... ... Mono,. .••.• , •••• . Oct. 16, 1879. 60 ::
30 1 6 .........••.....•.•.••.
192 LANDMARK, ............. . 253 Madison, ........ Yolo,............. "
193 READING, •• , •• , •••••••••• 254 Redding, ........ , Shasta,........... "
9 4 4 4 1 .. 1 '···
30 .. 6 · 2 2 1 1 .......... .
194 WELCOllE, ...... . ....... . 255 Lemoore,. ...... . Tulare,.... . ...... "
1
"
.
.
Joaquin,...
San
6 4 ' 4 .. ... 1
............
6
..
Lodi,
30
256
195 LoDI, . .. ....... ••• •• •••• •
II ARIZONA, ............... . 257 Phwnix,. ... , ~· .• Arizona Territory, "
196 PENRHYN,. .. ... ...... . .. 258 Penryn,. ......... Placer,. ... . ...... Oct. 15,
II 6 .. •
60 . . 6 6 4 IS 9 . • 6 2 .. .
"
"
197 EVERGREEN, ••••••••••••• 269 Riverside, .....••. Riverside,........ "
Ii 4 1
8 . . S 9 .. .
50 6 12 lT 18 1
"
"
198 KING BoLOMON'S, • ••••••• 260 San Francisco, ... San Francisco, ••.
. .... , 1 ...
30 .. 6 S 9 S l .. l ...
199 TUSCAN, ••• . •••••.•• , ••• 261 Williams, ....... . Colusa,. ......... .
1 2 2
200 LOMPOC,. ............... . 262 Lompoc, ..• ..•.•• Santa Barbara, ••. Oct. 15, 1881. 30IS6 .•• 1 . ..... 1 2 ..•
"
Territory,
Arizona
...
..
..
·
•.
Tucson,
263
II TUCSON, ........ ••••••••
201 8ESPERIAN, .. , ..... , , , • , 264 Santa !Ilaria, ..•.. Santa Barbara, .. . Oct. 12, 1882.
1
4 0 1 8 8 S S ... S l ...
"
u
202 ORLAND, ........ .. .... . . 266 Orland, ... . ..... Glenn,............ "
1
10 6 6 IS 6 • • . 2 1 ..•
203 NORTH EAST,. ••••• , •• , •. 266 Fon Bidwell, .... Modoc,.......... . "
204 GALT,. . ••• • •• • • • ••••••• 267 Galt, ..•• ..•.• .... Sacramento,..••. •[Oct. 11, 1883. 30 .. 6 .. . .. . ..• 1 .... . .. .
5016874411
206 DURANT, .... .... ... .... . 268 Berkeley,....... Alameda,. .• , .,.. . "
1. ..
30 .• 6 3 3 3 2 1 2 ...
206 OLIVE BRANCH,. .•• , ••••. 269 Tulare, .......... Tulare,. .. . . . .. .. .
t FAr.L RIVER, . ... .... ... . 270 Gleobnrn, .. . ..... Shasta, .......... .
.........
207 S1rnw MOUNTAIN, •••••••• 271 Stony Ford,. ... .. Colusa, ........... Oct. 16, 1~
..
u
I 6 6
208 PASADENA, , ••• • , , , , , •.•. 272 Pasadena, ........ Los Angelee,.. . . . "
1:1 ' 20 •.
60 .. 6 18 17
u
,,
. . . . . .•
6 1 1 i ••... 2 1 . .•
209 ANCHOR,. ..... ••• .... .. 273 Comptoi:i., .... ... . Los Angeles,...... "
l 1. ..
6 ...... ... ..... 1 ...
210 ARROYO,. .............. . 274 Arroyo 1.trande, .• Ban Lois Obispo,.. "
,,
u
3 6
8016 6 IS ... 1 ..
211 OAKDALE," •• , •• , •• , • , • 275 Oakdale, .. ..•.• .• Stanislaus, ••• , • • . "
WESTPORT,,.., .......... . 276 Westport, . ....... Mendocino,. .... ..

179 GUADALUPE, ••••••••••••• 237 Guadalupe,....... Santa Barbara, ••• Oct.

150 STANISLAUS, • •••• • •••••• • 206
151 ANAHEill, ••••••••••••••• 207
152 RIO VISTA, . ••••••••••••• 208
153 KING DAVID'S,. ••• • •••••• 209
154 FRIENDSHIP, ••••••• •. • •• 210

21

"'I . . J

.s.~ 1~ . ! ~
.s "~ -.. , .... "., i1-! ~~ .:i~ .S"O
~ g..; ~ .! ~ :;
"II<" $ " ·a =1 ·:i 411~1:1.:n,ga~
r.. ::ii
1 1
A
II<-< ~ "' "'

-~

59
Modesto, .. . ....• ,Stanislaus, •.. ... •. Oct 14, 1870., 50 5 121 5 6 2
...
52 ...IS, ..
22
30 .. 6 3 l 1 1 ..
u
"
Anaheim, ..•..••. Orange, •••••.. , •. "
1
. 1 1 30
30 112 2 2 1 .....
2 .. .
Rio Vista,. •. ...•. Solano,. •.•...•.•. "
2 3 3 90
2 ••.•.•
50 .. 6 2 ·1 ... 2 ..
Ban Luis Oblapo,. San Luis Obispo, •. "
160
5
Ban Jose, •.•••••. Santa Clara,. .••.. Oct. 14, 1871., 50 . . 9 . 5
2 ' ...
50162 s 2 2 .. •• • l•oo l•••
......
"il""i 68
156 SAN BENITO, ••••••••••••• 211 Hollister, ..•.••.. San Benito, ...•••.
1 3 . .. lQO
1
50 .. 12 1 11 1111 11
156 So. SAN FRA.NOisco, .. ••. . 212 Ban Francisco, ... San Francisco, .••. "
t BODEGA,............... .. 213 Bodega,...•••.••• Sonoma, .... . .... .
"
4 74
··•··:"ii
...
1
3
.
......
,
•
Ventura,
214
Ventura,........
•.•••
157 SAN BUB!UVENTU&A,
"
2 1 ... 153
2 ••••••
158 OAK GROVE,.:••••••••••• 215 Alameda, . ••.•••• Alameda, ...•• , •••
2 181
2
•
50 10112 12 12 10 l • • 1 11 ...
159 DORIC, ............ •"'·• 216 Ban Francisco, ..• San Francisco, ••.
l 2 1 54
4016 1 1 1 ... 2 1 1 •..
160 MONTEREY, .. .......... .. 217 Monterey, ...•• . .. Monterey, •••...•.
2 2 ·1 43
.. 12 2 2 l .... .
1 1. ..
161 MOSAIC, ••••• • , .. ... ••• .. 218 Livermore, •...• .. Alameda,...• , .. . . Oct.
,, 50
,, 1872,
" 11,
4 9 2 SB
75 10 12 7 7 5 . . . 2 3 I .. .
162 SPERANZA ITA.LliJIA, ••••• 219 Ban Francisco, •.. San Francisco, . .•.
..
2. •• • •• 46
s
5
.
5
.....
5
2
6
.
.
80
163 DOWNEY, .. .. ........... . 220 Downey, ........ . Los Angeles, ... .. "
1 l . • . 37
.
....
1
......
5016
.
221
.........
Inyo,.,,
...
Independence,
••
•••
........
..
....
lNYO,
164
"
. .. . 1 38
50 2! 6 . .. . . . . .. 1 l
165 GRANITE, •••••••••••••••• 222 Rocklin, . ........ Placer, . .... . .... .
* MAUI,. . •••• •• ••••• •• •• •• 223 Wailuku,•....••.. Hawaiian Islands,. Oct. 18, 1873.1.. . . . . . . ..... .... . .
.., "ii ".5i
"i
••
2
2
s
.
4
1
12
5
50
"
"
..
•..
,
.••••
..•.
Kern,
224
..•..
.
Bakersfield,
166 BAKERS~'IELD, ••••••••••••
l 4 . .. 89
21 l ....
50 . . 6 4 8 6 2 ..
167 BROOKLYN, •••• , ........ . 225 East Oakland,... . Alameda, ........ .
I... 94
1
5 0 5 6 2 2 2 .•• 2
168 HAYWARD,. ..... , ..... .. 226 Half Moon Bay, .. San Mateo, .•••••.
1... . .. 26
50 .. 6 . . . . . . . . . . .
169 CONTRA COSTA,, ••••••••• 227 Somersville, .•.... Contra Costa, ..••.
"
. 1. .. 38
30 .. 6 -1 l 1 11 ..
170 ATHENS,. •••••••••••••••• 228 Davisville, ....... Yolo, ... ...... . .. .
" 5
3 4. . . 68
0 5 6 2 1 1 . ..
1.
171 SOLANO,. ............... . 229 Vallejo, . ••..•••.• Solano,...... ... .
"
3 1 45
2
••.
2
1
1
6
.•
50
172 NORTH BUTTE,. ......... . 230 Gridley, .......... Butte,.. .... . ..
"
2 . . . 1 27
1 .. .
173 COVBLO, ... ............. . 231 Covelo, .•••••.•.. Mendocino,. .•••. . Oct. 6, 1su. 30 . . G......-..... .
3016 ......... . ..
..
"
174 JANESVILLE, .. ••••••••• .. 232 Janesville, ....... Lassen, .. .• ..•. .•• .
46
2. . . 3. 111 32
52 1 6 ...•••.• . '• •. , 2 2 8
175 0ALISTOGA,. • •• , ••••• , • 233 Calistoga, ••.•..•. Napa, ••.•••••••.
"
. . . . 41
..
...
1
1
1
6
.
,
0
8
...
1
..
-.
.......
Plumas,
234
........
Beckwith,
176 HOPE, . ................. .
1 1 28
.... 1• ••
5016 ....... . . . 11
177 SURPRISE VA.I.LR, . .. ., •• 235 Cedarville,. ••••.. Modoc,. ..• , ..... .
" " 150
. •• 46
1
.. 6 ... .. .... 1
17ij HILL'S F'EBBY, •••••••••• 236 Newman, ........ Stanislaus, ....... . " "

OP

NAllES

Li-at of the Subordinate Lodges, dc.-Oontinued.

en

~

Cl

c:n

~·

~
~
0

~

~

~

~
5.

~
~

..:...,

Cl

co

C1J

......

......

;

~

~

i:i

a.
:s·

'r

~

~

~
.,.,..

:t

LODGES.

I
I
TOWN.

PLAOE

OF
OOUNTY,

LOCATION,
ORDEBED.

1

~ -;;

I"! I"! -<

'4

~

~

.:l

,!l

p.,

.... 0 .... .... -

I<!

I"!

~ l5
::i
.:
<>
A

"

,.

t(

- - -

1......

l
3
1

1

...

43
22
25
22
25
15
28
27
35
17
18
90
102
15
25
18
76
23

46
.26
34
29
52

so

21

34
29
28
46
29
20
18
67
52
66
17
19
43
74
19
25
85
82
54.

-- -- -- - - -- 883 843 796 659113 369 390 1 3 292

-- --411 172 174.31

l

3

s

2

1
1
1

1

2

... 11 .. .

243 MONROVIA., .............. 308 Monrovia, ........ . Los Angeles, .... .. Oct. 14, 1891. 30 •. 6 4 2 2 4 . .• 4 ....... . ...
2(4 DELANO, ................ 309 Dela.no,......... Kern,. ... . .... .. . . Opt. 12, 1892. ao. . 6 1 1 J 3 .. .. .. . ..........
50 . . 6 1 1 1 • •.. .
"
"
245 S1ssoN,....... .. . . .. . .. . 310 t;isson,. .......... Siskiyou,.. . . . . . • . "
2 . ..... .. 2
30 .. 12 3 s 2 .. . ... } ...........
"
"
2(6 HUENEME, ..... . ........ 311 Hueneme,., • • . • Ventura,. . .. ... . . "
50.. 6 1 2 2 ......
"
"
247 Los BA.Nos, ............. 312 Los B11nos, ....... Merced,....... . .. "
1
35 1 12 1 ... •.. . .. ... 1 ... . .• .. J
"
"
248 TEHACHAPI,......... . .. 818 Tehachapi, ....... Kern,............ . "
249 TKMESCAL, •.•.•••....... 314 South Riverside, .. Hiverside, .••.••• Oct. 11, 1893. 50.. 6 1 .. . ... 3 .................
30.. 6 i> 5 6 2 ... 8 .•... • .. 1
"
"
250 NORWALK,. • ..••• .••..••• 315 Norwalk, •.....•.. Los Angeles, . . •.. : "
30 . . 12 7 7 7 1 .. . 3 •..... I . .
"
"
251 SANGER, ................. 316 Sanger, ...... ,... Fresno, . .. ... .... "
30 .. 6 J 1 1 1 ... ........• ·, ....
..
..
252 FALLBBOOK,... ... • . .. .. 317 Fa.llbrook, ...... . Sao Diego,...... .. ..
30 10 12 4 s 2 1 . . . 1 ...........
..
"
253 EMMANUEL,............. . 318 Biggs, ........·.... Butte,.... .. .. • .. ..
264 HOLLENBECK,............ 319 Los Augeles, ..... Los Angeles, .. . .. Oct. 11, 1894. 50 . . 6 17 16 13 5 . . . . . . .. . .. . . . 1
50 • . 6 15181324 . . . 1 •....•
"
"
256 SOUTH GA.TE, ........ . ... 320 Los Angeles,. .... Los Angeles,..... "
1
50 •• 12 .. . ... . .. . . . ... 1 ...........
"
"
256 ALIBA.L,. . ............... 321 Pleasanton, ...... Alameda,.... .. . . ."
50 .. 6 8 8 8 6 .•• 1 ...........
"
"
257 ALHAMBRA, ... ..... ...... 322 Alhambra,....... . Los Angeles, . .. .. "
258 WHITTIER, .... . ......... 323 Whittier, ......... Los Angeles,. .. . . Oct. 11, 1895. so . . 6 2 2 2 22 . . . 1 ..........•
50 . . 9 28 28 28 ,8 ... .. .• ...•.....•
"
"
259 CORONA ....... ... ....... 324 Pasadena, . . ...... Los Angeles,..... "
40 3 6 2 1 1 22 . ................
..
"
260 CONSUELO .......... . .... 325 Escondido, ...... San Diego.. .. .... "

.J

(I

(j

,,

a .....

55
260
63
41
30

u~1 1-JI~i ~ ~ :ii:;;i
~~ fi!i

ia

-Ii 1 1
.s.s"~jmji
:ll~~-=-.i

212 SELMA,. .......... ... ... . 277 Selma, .. . .... .... Fresno, ...... . .... Oct. 16, 1885. 80 . . 6 8 2 2 1. .. . . . 2 . . . . . 1 21.. .
., " 50 .. 6 12 11 11 17 1 7 11 • . . . . 4 8 1
218 SouTH'N OuuoB1uA., •... 278 Los Angeles, ..... Los Angeles,. • • • . "
" ,, 35 . . 6 1 1 1 1... 1 l ............. .
214 HA.NFOBD, ............. . 279 Hanford, ... . ..... Kings,......... .. . "
1 2
"
..
Madera,........
.....
....
Madera,
280
215 MADKB4" •.• •. • .. .• ~I'''
" " 55 .. 6 . . . . . . . . :a ... .. .
216 MOUNT SHASTA, . , , . , • • •, 281 Anderson, . • •...• Shasta, • .... .• •.•• Oct. 14, 1886. 30 . . 9 6 4 4. .. . . . 1 1 .. . . . • . 3 . ..
217 0ALLAYOJ.U1 . , , , . , , " " • • 282 Middletown, ..... Lakl!i.............. Oct. 18, 1887, 30 . . 12 1 1 .. . . . • . .. 1 1 . . . . • . • . .. • 1
30 1 6 2 1 . . . 2 1 • . . . .. . . . . . . . • 3 1
218 SOUTH WEST, , .... , ... , • 283 National City,. ... San !Jiego,....... "
,,
cc
50 . . 12 1 1 1 J • . • 1 . .. . . . . . . . . 2 .. .
219 TYBCA.N, ..... ... . . .... . 281 Dunnigan,.. . .... . Yolo.l... .... • . . . . . "
.• 1 . .. 2
220 SAN MIGUEL, ..• . , ....•.. 285 San Miguel, . ... • . San Luis Obispo,. "
" " 50 . 5. 126 . . 1. . •1. . . 2. . •2. . ..1 31 . . 6• ...• .. ..
. ..... . ..
221 p A.SO RoBLEB,.,. . . . . . , .. 286 Paso Robles,...... San Luis Obispo,.. "
'',, " 80
30 5 12 1 1 1 1 . . . .. . . .. .. . • . . . • .. . 1
222 WINNEDUMAH, .....••...• 287 Bishop, ........ , Inyo,..... ...... . . "
223 MAXWELL, ............ .. 283 .Maxwell, .. .. ..... Colusa, ...• .. •• • • Oct. 11, 1888, 60 . . 12 l . . • • . • 1 . . . 2 . • • • . . . . . . • 2 ..•
"
JO, . 6 .. .....•... • .• . • 1 ....... ..... ... .
22' ELSINORE, ............. . 289 Elsinore, . ..... ... Riverside,........
" " 50
1
. . 6 4 5 6 13 • . . 2 6 . . . . . 3 . .
225 SUNSET, ..... .. ........ . 290 East Los Angeles, Los Angeles, • . • • . "
"
"
50 . . 6 4 4 3 .. , I 2 . , . . . . . . 1 . . • 1
u
''
226 SANTA PA.UC.A, ..... . ... . 291 Santa Paula, ...•• Ventura,.......... "
1f
"
50 .. 9 ......... . . .. .. . 1 1 . . . , ..
227 Los GAToP, ............. . 292 Los Gatos, . ..... Santa Q!ara, . . • • . "
1839. 30 1 12 1 . . . . . . 1 • . . 1 1 ••...
228 0RANGll GB'lVE, . ....... . 293 Ounge, ........ Orange,. ......... Oct. 10,
,,
cc
.. 6 1 1 1 .1 1 2 ..••.. '. . . . 1 .. .
229 TBAVEB, ....... . ....... . 294 Traver, ... ....... Tulare,........ .... "
,, " 30
30 . . 6 5 6 4... . .. . . . 2 . .... • . . . • . 2
"
2~0 MOUNT JAOXSON . ...••••. 295 Guerneville . ..... Sonoma ....... . • .
H
CC
. . 6 4 5 2 10 • . . 3 ll . . • . . l 1 3
50
296
,
.
,
........
GATE
231 SILVER
Sau Die~o . ....... S~n piego........ ::
50 . . 6 3 3 4 1 . . . 2 2 . • .. 1 1 ..
2S2 DUNSHUIB, ...... . ..... . . 297 Dnnsmmr ...•.•.. S1sk1you ......... .
"
"
50 . . 6 2 2 3 2 . .. . .. .. .... • .
2S3 MOKELUHNE HILL,, .. ... . 298 Mokelumne Bill,. Calaveras, .• .• •... Oct. 16, 1890.
u
30 . . 6 6 6 5 ll .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 l
284 LIBERTY, .•....... . •.... 299 Santa Clara,.. .. . Santa Olara,. ... . . "
Cl
cc
50 . . 6 6 6 11 9 . . . 4 . • . . . . . . 1 1 .•.
235 REDLANDS, ... ... ...... .. soo Redlands, ........ San Bernardino,.. "
30 . . 6 . . . 1 2 s . . . 1 . • . .. . . . . • . 1 .•.
u
"
236 ONTARIO,. •.••. ' .... . ... . 301 Ontario, ...... . .. San Bernardino,.. "
50 . . 9 3 3 3 1 . . . 1 . . . . . . . . 1 . . . . . .
237 SANTA LuorA., .... ...... . 302 Kings City, ...... Monterey,........ "
238 PORTERVILLE, .•• , •••.. . , 30S Porterville, .. ..... Tulare,.. ......... "
" " 35 . . 6 6 5 3 .2 . . . . .. 2 . . . . . . .. 1 .. .
239 RBBDLEY, ., ..•• , ...... , . 304 Reedley,......... Fresno,. ......... . Oct. 14, 1891. ,80 .. 12 1 2 2 . • . 1 6 1 . .. .. . • . 1 .. .
30 . . 6 3 3 8 2 . .. 2 .. . . . • .. • • . 1 .. .
"
h
240 AZUSA, .... .... ......... . 305 Azusa, •.. ••••• : •.. Los Angeles,...... "
4f
II
306 Colton ,. .•.. ...... Sa.a Bernardino,.. "
30 . . 6 3 2 1 . . • • . . l . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1
241 ASHLA.JI, . , ..... .
"
,50 . . 6 2 2 2 2 . • • . . . 2 ............. ..
"
u
242 SANTA MONICA, .. ... ... .. 307 Santa. Monica, •••. Los Angeles,.....

OF

NA.MES

.:i ..= ~
DATE WHEN
I OHA.JITER w AB ~ ".i "'j..:53 id

List of tlie Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

CXl

~

Cl

J.

~

~

~

~

~

~

~
~

L.....J

?1

(0

......

......

~
~

t

a
i

~

~

~

~
.,...

~

01

548

Recapitulation.

RECAPIT ULATION .
17,04.0

Membership 31st July, 1894., .....••.••.... · ..•....... • • •. ·· · • ··

Grand Lodges in Correspondence with the Grand

G.ilNBD-By Degrees, .................... .... ·: . ...•• . .. .• · 795

" Aftllle.tlon,.. . . . • . • • . . . . • . . .. . . • . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . 559
" Restoration, . . . . . .. . . . • • . . . • • •. • • . . .. . . . . • • . • . . 113

.,

1,4.67

LOST-By Withdrawals,.... . . . .. . • • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . .. . . • . . 369
3

Organization.

" Dee.th,. .......... ... ................. . ........... 292
" Revocation of Charter,.......... ............ ... ..

21

Net Gain, ................... .. 391
Membership Slat July, 1895,. ........ ....... ......... · ·. · ·• ·...

from the Grand Lodge of California,
and Grand Officers Since

" Suspensions,... ....................... .... ... . . .. 391
" Expulsions,. • . . . . . • . . . . . . . .•..•.. i.· •.••••.••••.••

Lodge of California, Representatives to and

1,076
3111
17,431

550

Grand Bodie,s in Oorresp<>ndence

(189~'.

1895.]

With the Grand Lodge of California.

551

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA

In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California.

FOREIGN GRAND .LODGES,
GRAND LODGES,

GRAND SECBE.TARIEB.

RESlDENCJ,S.

ORGANil'lKD.

ALABAJIU.,. ........... Henry C. Armstrong, ...... Mimtgamery,. .. • . Jnne 15, 1821•
.ARIZONA.•••••..••••.. Georii:e J. Roskrnge ••..•. Tucson, ...•••••. Mar. 26, 1882.
ARKANSAS, • • • . . . .. .. . Fay Hempstead, .......... Little Rock, ...... Feb. 22, 1882.
BRITISHCOLUllllIA, ....
J. Quinlan,. ........... Victoria,. ....... Dec. 27, 1871.
CANADA, ...•..• ·....• • John J. Mason, ........... Hamiltan,. •••.... Oct. 10, 1855.
COLORADO,. .•.•...... Edward Carroll Parmelee,. Denoer,. ... . .. .. Aug. 2, 1861.
COliNll<l'l'ICUT, ......•. John H. Barlow,. ... ...• . . Harlford,. ..•.... July 8, 1789.
DBLAWARlll,........... Benjamin F. Bartram, . .... Wilmingttm,. .. .. . Jone 6, 1806.
DI!l'a. OP COLUlDIIA,. .. William R. Singleton,. ..... Waahingttm,. .... Feb. 19, 1811.
FLORIDA,. ............ Albert J. Rossell,. ....•..•. Jackson-oille, .... July 5, 1830.
GlllORGIA,. .•..•.•..••. Andrew M:. Wolibin, ..•••. Macon, . .• • ..•••. Dec. 16, 1786.
IDAHO,.......... .. .. Charles C. Stevenson,. .... Boise Oity,. ... . .. Dec.17, 1867.
ILLINOIS,. .•......•••• J. H.
Dill,.......... . .. Bloomington, .... April 6, 1840.
hmIANA, ............. William H. Smythe,. ...... Indianapolis, ... .. Jan. 12, 1818.
lliDUll' TJIBBITOBY, .•• Joseph Samuel Murrow,. .. Atoka, ........•• Oct. 5, 187'.
lowA,. .......... .. ... Theodore Sutton Parvin,... Cedar .Rapids, • . Jan. 8, 1844.
:K.ui!us,. ........... .. Albert K. Wilson .......... Topeka,. . .. ...... Mar.17, 1856.
KENTUCKY,. ........ .. Henry Bannister Grant,. • Louiiniille, ....... Oct. 8, 1800.
LOUISIANA,. ••.••..... Richard Lambert, ......... New Orleans, . ... June20, 1812.
MAINE,. ••••• , ••••.••• Stephen Berry,. . ..... .... Portland,. •.•.. .. June 1, 1820.
MANITOBA , .•••...•• . William George Scott,. .•.. Winnepeg,. .•.... May 12, 1875.
MARYLAND,. .......... Jacob H. Medairy,. .. ..... Baltimhre,. ....... Aprill7,1787.
MASSACHUSETTS,. ..... Sereno D. Nickerson,. ..... Bosttm,. ......... Mar. 8, 1777..
MICHIGAN,........ .... Jetferson S. Conover,. ..••. Goldwater, ... .... Sept.17, 1844.
MINNESOTA,. •••....... Thomas Montgomery., ..•• Saint Paul, . ....• Feb. 23, 1863.
Mtss1ss1PPI,. ......... John L. Power,. .•.• •. ..•. Jackson,. .... .... July 27, 1818.
MtssoURI, ..••.•• . .... John D. Vinci!, ...•... . •.•. St. Louu,. ..... .. May i, 1821.
MONTANA,. .... .. . .... Cornelius Hedges,. ........ Helena,. ......... Jan. 24, 1866.
N111BRASIU., .••••...... William R. Bowen, ... . . . Omaha, ..•.••••. Sept.23, 1857.
NEVADA,. ....... , .. . Chauncey N. Noteware, .. Garson,. ......... Jan. 16, 1865.
NEW BRUNSWICK, .•.•• F. w. Wisdom,. ........... Saint John,. •.... Oct. IO, 1867.
NEW HAlD'BHIRB,. .... George Perley Cleaves, •.. Concord, .. . ..... Joly 8,'1789.
NEW JERSEY,. ........ Tbos. 8. R. Redway,. ..... Trenttm,. ........ Dec. 18, 1786.
NEW :M.u100, ........ Alpbens A. Keen,. ........ East Las Vegas,. Aug. 7, 1877.
NEW You:,. .......... Edward M. L. Ehlers, ..... New York,. ...... Sept. 5, 1781.
NOBTH CAROLINA,. ... John
Drewry,. •..••.••. Raleigh, . .... .. .. Dec. 12, 1777.
NoBTH DAKOTA,.. .... . Frank J. Thompson,. .... . Fai·v_o, .... ...... June 13, 1889.
NovA SooTu, .... .... William Roes, .. ........... Halifax,. .. ...... Jan. 21, 1866.
Omo,. ............... J. H. Bromwell,........... Cincinnati,. .. .... Jan. 7, 1808.
OKLA.ROMA, ........... James S. Huot, ........... Stillwater,. ....... Nov. IO, 18n.
0BEGON,. . .....••..... Jamee F. Robinson, ...•.•. Eugene,. . ...•... Sept.15, 1851.
PENNSYLVANIA,. . • .... Michael Nisbet,. •.. . . . . ... Philadelphia,. .... Sept.26, 1786.
PRINCE EDw'D ISLAND, George W. Wllkeford,. . ... Charlottetown, .. . Jone 2', 1875.
QUEBEC,............. John H. Isaacson, •.•..••. Montreal, ........ Oct. 20, 1869.
RHODE ISLAND,. ..... .. Edwin Baker,. ........... Providence, . ..... Jone 27, 1791.
SOUTH CAROLINA, ..... Charles Inglesby, ....... Charlesttm,. ... ... Mar. 24, 1787.
SoUTH DAKOTA, ..•••. Geo. A, Petti11:rew, • . ••.•. Flandreau ,. ••... July 21, 1875.
TENNEBBlllE,. .......... Jobn B. Garrett,. ......... Nashville, .... .. .. Dec. 27, ]J.ll8.
TEXAS,. .............. John Watson,. . ........... HllUBton,. .... .... Dec. 20, 1887.
UTAH,. ............... Christopher Diehl, .. ... ... Sau LakeOi.ty,. . • Jan. 17, 1872.
VERMONT,. ... ....... . Warren G. Reynolds,..... Bui·lington ,. ... .. Oct. 14, 1794.
VIRGINIA,. ...... . .... Joseph V. Bidgood ,. ...... Richmond, •.••••. Oct. 13. 1778.
ASHINGTON , . . ...••.• Thomas Milbnrne Reed, .•. Olympia, . . •••. .. Dec. 8, 1858.
WEST VIRGINIA,. . .... . George
Atkinson,.. . WMeling, ....... May 11, 1865.
W1scoNSIN,. ........ John W. Laflin,. ..... . ..... .Milwaukee,. . .... Dec. 18, 18i3.
WYOMING, . . . . . . . . •
William L. Kuykendall,. ... Saratoga, . • ... .. Dec. 15, 187'.

w.

c.

c.

w

w.

Grand Orients and Supreme Councils

In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California,
With Names and Residences of Grand Secretari11.

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC, Supremo Cbn· l
.
sejo y Grande Oriente of....... l .... Otto E. Recke,. .......... Buenos Aires.
BBLGIUll, Grand Orient of... .. .......... Rian Nedgrot, .. ......... Brusse/6.
BBLGIIlll, SuprAme OonBeil of ...... • ... . Leopold Riebe, ..••... •. Bnu1ela.
BBAr.IL, Grande Oriente e Supremo t
.
··
.
·· .
Oonselho of......... .. ... . ..... f ... • Antomo P. Mendez,. ... •·.Rio de JanB1.1·0.
CHILlll, Grand Lodge of...•••••••.••.••.• A. Echeverria,. . ..... . ..• ValparaiBro.
COLOMBIA, Supremo Oonsejo y Gran- t
de OMente ot tbe United States off · · · Damaro Zapota, · · • · · · • ... Oarlhagena.
ISLAND OF OuilA, Gran LOgia .. .. ... ... . Jos6 F. Pellon,. .......... . Ha-oana.
EGYPT, Grande Oriente of............... Francisco F. Oddi,. ..... •.Alezandria.
ENGLAND, Grand Lodge of ........ .. ..... E. Letcbwortb, F. S. A,. .. London.
IRBLAND, Grand Lodge of. .• • ... .....•... Archibald St. George, •. • . • .DuOli.n.
ITALY, Grande Oriente of............... Achille Ballori, ....... .. .. Rome.
Himco Gran L6gia del Dialrito t
.
.
Federal ot tbe United States off .... Gamahel Arenat .. .. •• •• .. Mezico.
NEW 8oUTH WALBB, United Grand I
.
Lodge of............. .. .......
Arthur H. Bray,. ....... .. Sydney.
Pllillu, (}ran L6gia of Republic of .••...•. J. Artnro Ego-Agnlrre, ... Lima.
!'Bussa, Grosse National-Mutter- t
.
Loge aer Prewi:Nchen. Staaten, f · • .. E. T. P . Meyerhoff,. • .. ..•• Berlm.
PBus~u, Grosse Loge tion PreusBen., t
.
Royal York zur J!'reundschaft, f . · .. Carl Augnst BoocM , . .... . Berlin.
BoOTLAND, Grand Lodge of......... ..... . David Murray Lyon, ...... .. Edinburgh.
SoU'l'B AusTMLIA, Grand Lodge of.• ••••James H. Cunningham,. . . . Ade:aiae.
SPAIN Grande Oriente legal y reg· l
. . .
ufar of................... . , ... j .... Joaqn1u Re1z,. ........... . Madrid.
VINlllZUELA, Gr. Oriente Nacional t
of tbe United States of......... { .••. Jose B. Alovzna,......... . OardcaB.
VICTORIA, United Grand Lodge of....... .John Braim, ......... ..... Melbourne.

r ....

552

Representatives from the

[1895.

Grand Lodge of California.

1895.]

RE PR ES EN TA TI VE S
near other Grand
Of the Grand Lodge of California

Lodges and Grand Orient~.
..•• •• • •.. 1886.

, P. M.,
W.·. WILLIAX YATES TITOOHB
••
Alabama, •.•• ••.• ••.• ••••
, •••• ••.. . .••. . •. 1877.
30°
,
Ill.• . VALBNTIN F. BLANCO
Or.,
Gr.
c,
ubli
Rep
ne
1889.
enti
Arg
TER, P. G. lit., . .... ••• . ...
.M.·. W.·. MOBBIR GOLDWA
1893.
...
....
Arizona, •• •• •••• ••.• . .•.•
P. M.,. .... ....
W.-. A. G. BENDRBSON ,
1887.
..
.
....
Ark ans as,. .. .... .... .... ...
.
...
....
D. G. M:., ..
. R.-. W.·. MARK BA.TE, P.
1892.
.•
.,
G.D
British Columbia, .... . ....
s.
P.
N,
BSO
RYB
G
• V.·. W.·. GEOBGB ST&BLIN
.. .. 1891.
Canada, .••• •••• •••• ••• .••
TILLO, P. M.,.... ... .... .
CAS
A.
N
JUA
...
w
••
a,
••1890.
.•••
Colon and Isla nd of Cnb
M.,
G.
N PEABODY, P.
M.·. W. ·. JAMES HAMILTO
.. 1889.
.
...
Colorado, •••• ••• •• • •• • • •••
....
p.,
Cha
G.
NER,
•. v.-. B.·. BBVEBLY E. WAR
., •. 1886.
Connecticnt,. ••• •• • •• •.••
.G.M
l'.D
LL,
SHA
MAR
[
• . R.·. w... GEORGI!. WILLiil
Delaware, •••• ••.• ..•• •••
R, P. M.,.... .... .1880.
W.-. ISAAC SELOVEB T10HENO
.
.
,....
7.
Dist.rict of Col um bia
G. S., .... , . .°.... .... . 187
Ill.". FRANCISCO F. ODDI,
9.
188
••
•
•••
Egy pt, Gra nde Oriente,....
M.,
G.
P.
G,
TON LON
. .ac... w.-. HBNRY WASHING
1876.
.
....
..
Flo rida , .... ... .... .... ...
..
....
w.,
G.
s.
,
LOR
R.·. w.·. JAKES w. TAY
Georgia, .••• •••• • • ••• ••••
M., •••. •••• •••• 1879.
EDWARD A. STBTENBON , G.
M.· .
••
•.
•••.
•
Idah o, •.• •• • .• ••••
. •••• •• •••• • 1887.
•••
••
W.·. JoHN MoLABBN, P. M.,
.•
Dlinois,.... ... .... .. ••. • • •
.... .... ... 1877.
....
M.,
G.
P.
•• M.·. W.· . FRANKS. DEVOL,
.
....
....
....
....
,
1880.
iana
Ind
Mmmow, P. G. M., •••• ••
•M.·. W.·. JosEPH SAMUEL
1885.
••
••.•
Ind ian Ter rito ry, ••• ••• •••
••••
.•.•
LAFE loU !IG, S. G. W., . •.••
•
1887.
.
.•.
Iow a, .• ••• •••• ••• . • •. ..•
...
...
..
..
G. M.,
Ill. ·. ADRIANO Ln nn, P.
1893.
•.
•••
Ital y, Grande
••••
•
••
M.,
P.
LUl,
W.·. ANDREW M. CALLAI
•.••
••.•
•
.
.
••
.
•
••
1869.
.
,..
.
SBS
Kan
.Lows, P. G. M., ...• .•••
. .M.· . W.·. JOHN Q. A. FBI
1886 .
...
..
Louisiana, .... . .... .... . .
....
....
, P. G. M.,
.B.·. W.·. HENBY R. TAYLOR
1892.
..
W.,
Maine, . .... .... .... .... ....
G.
J.
P.
,
llAN
NBW
• R.·. W.·. FREDERICK Ll!.sLIE
1892.
•.
:
•
•
••
Manitoba,. .... .... .... ...
•••
••
.
M.,
P.
T,
W.· . WILLIAM E. STEWAR
..
....
....
....
,...
1887.
.•
and
•••
ryl
•••
Ma
H Rmz, P . G. M.., ••..
. • M.-. W.·. CARLOij Koc
1883.
••
Mexico, Fe.der<U J>iat. of
•••
•••
••
M.,
JOHN W. MoGBATH, P. G.
. .M.·.
1860.
.
...
...
M.!chlgan,.. . .... .... . ...
....
s.,
G.
P.
TT,
.B.·. w.·. GEORGB w. PBBSOO
•• •1889.
.•••
Minnesota, .... .... .... ....
M.,
P.
PS,
LLI
PHI
BD
W.-. GBORGE CB.l.WPO
..
Mississippi,... ... . .. .... .
G. M., .... .... ... 1877.
W.· . JOHN E. RYLAND, P. D.
B.-.
•
•
••••
•
Missouri, •••• •••• ••
NEY, P. :M., . . .... 1890.
W. ·. DAVID MILLBB MCELHIN
••
Neb rask a, .... . ... . ••. .
M., .... . .... . . 1890.
P.
WILLIAH McMILLAN, G.
• •M.·.
Nev ada , .••• •••• • • .• . .•••
D. D. G. M., . . 1892.
,
HAN
KEB
DIO
•• B.·. W.-. GEoBGE OsOAR
5.
New Ham psh ire,..•• ••• •
N, P. G. M., . . .... .. .. 188
M.-.W.-.JosEPH W. CONGDO
8.
187
.
....
.
New Jers ey,. . .. . .... .. ...
.
...
...
M.,
P.
W.·. HENRY LINN WALDO,
1892.
••.
New Mexico, . •••• ••• • ••••
••••
••.•
M.,
P.
NG,
W.·. 0HABLBS GBBY EWI
..
New Sou th Wales, .... . ..

w.-.

R.-. w.-.

Orieflte,......

553

RE PR ES EN TA TI V ES
Of the Grand lodge of California

near other Grand lodges and Grand Orients.

(001'TINUJm.)
New York " .. .. • ' . . " . . .
W. ·• HXBBERT p DBDR lox, P. M., ..•• • •. .• : •• 1 893•
•
•
..
W:
.
a,..
···.,ORN c. DREWRY
North Carolin
• • •.• ••
. · • • • • .••• ..•• • •. 1893.
M.,
P.
•
·
1890
•R. W.· TH
Nor th Dakota, .••• •••• • •• M.•• W:. • o1us J&FFEBSON W1LDEa, P. S. G. W·•· ·
•
smc
ro
LAi
Nova Sco tia
Row
EN
1869•
EPH
.
.
.·.ST
•..
OH, P. G. M.,
, . .... . ·• ••· · • • ··•W . Jo
W
•
.
N p M
Ohio,•••. • ••. • • •••• ,.. ....
• · HN ILSON CHAHBlliRLI ' • .,.••.. • •.. 1886 •
MCCBAKEN p
Oregon
W:· J
1870.
•·· · ···· ··· · ···· . •• , M.·• • • • OHN
' • G. M., ... · · · .•.• . •• ..
W.. H S
..
p M
Pen nsy lva nia ,.... .... .. .
• • . TANLBY GOODWIN, ' ., •• • • • • ••• • • •• 1889.
Per o
W.• J ARTUB0
.. .1886.
,.. ' . . . .. •• · · · · ·•· · · · . . R.·,
EGO-AGUIBRI!:, G. s., .... .....
J.
o
itan
Lus
HO A
VAL
0.1.B
Portogal, Gr. Or.
DE
••1879.
•
•
OSE
.
••
•
•
•
•
>•
ZBVEDO, •. • •
p .
G
.R • W •
rmc e Edw ard Isla nd, ... •• • • • • 8 IKON WILLUH CRABBE , J . . W., .... .•• . 1880,
Q eo, .•.. ..•• . •• ••.• ••• •• R. W. · Ens ONF ITO HD DG M
oeb
. . 1881 .
• •• •
· • · · • • · • ••· .. . . .
•
•
•
••.R.· W.·• • GEo • umOULTO'N CARPENTER p .D. D.G .M 1880
•
Rhode Island, .••• • .•.• •••
•
•
.,.
R W GJIORGB D1oxs N
1 nd, .. ..
Bo ota
"· •••
., .... ... . .... . 1883.
G.S
P.
'V.
••• • • • • ••· • • .. •R.
o
S
L
W. · S•U OLOHON p B G
1887.
Sooth Aostralia, •.• . .••• ••• • • • • • A
, • . • P., .. .. . ... .... ..
•
J
za.
l
lega
EsPI!!A
nte
Orie
nde
Gra
Spam,
, . . .. • • ULIO FERNANDEZ
· .. · . . . . . . . • .. 1879.
,.
T
W., M
•
enneesee,... • • • .. •• • •• . ..
ILLE DILLON SllL!.LLHAN, P . .M:., . 1887.
• • 01!TBAV
·. Txo x s M .,
Texas
W.
·.
WS, P. G M
,. .... .... .. .... . .... . Al
1887 .
A · mATTHE
'IT P G M.. ., . .... .. ...
Utah
•M.· . W.·. JoHN SHAW Boo
1877.
.
..
....
....
•
"·
V , . ••• ' . . •. .•.. ••.• •••
' • ·
W
•.R.·. W. G
WING D•G•u"'••· ...1887
erm ont, •••• ••.• : • •••. ••••
• • BOBGE ASHINGTO:N
'
•
Vir inia,·· ...........
..
g
.... • • • • • .. •• · • • • -·.. . .... ·••• • ·· ·••• · · .
• • • • • •• • • • · .. • •HAS
•
·
•
•
M
gton
shin
THO
Wa
, .. .... . .... . .. . M.· . W.·.
ILBllllNE RBED, P. G. M., •.. • •••• 1869.
West Virgin! a, .. · •· · ...• . . R • W.· • ~HAB'l' DBLWAB WALKER , 8. G. w • .• • 1874.
•
., •
•
•. .
Wiscons·
W.· Wrn. LAH C HBBTB& SWAIN p M., .. . .. ... . 1876.
Jn, . • • •••• ••• •• ••• •
'•
' •

ra':

w.-.

w.-.

51

554

Representative,s to the

(1895.

1895.J

Grand Lodge of OaJ,if<Yrnia.

555

REPRESENTATIVE S

REPRESENTATIVE S

Of Grand Lodges and Grand Orients near the Grand Lodge of California, .

Of Grand Lodges and Grand Orients near the Grand Lodge of California.
(CONTINUED.)

Alabama, ••••••.•••••.• •••• M.·. W.·. ALVAH RUSSELL CONKLIN, P. G. M., ......1886.
Argentine Repnblic,Gr.Or., ...... ...... .................................. • • • • • • • •
Arizona, .•.••.••••••••• ••• M.·. W.·. G1LBEBT BURNET Cumomm, P. G. M., .• •. 1888.
JA.OOB HART NEl!'I!', P. J. G. w.,........... 1886.
Arkansas, •••••••••••••••• • B.·.
AARON OHALl!'ANT, P. M., ....... . . . ....... 1891.
British Oolnmbia,.... . .....
Canada, . ....................... .. ............................. ... ........ .... .. .
W.·. Roll!UALDO P.a.cH1100, ••••••••••••••••••••• 1881.
Colon and Ieland of Cnba,".
JJ.MES WRIGHT ANDllBBON, P. G. L.,. . ...... 1890.
Colorado,.. ... ............ .
Oonnecticut, ........... ••• M.·. W.·. HIBAll NEWTON RUCKER, P. G. M., ...••••. . 1889.
Delaware, . •.••••.•••••.• •M.·. W.·. CLAY WEBSTER T.a.YLOB, P. G. M.,. ... .••. 1885.
District of Columbia, •. • •••• M.·. W.·. NATHANIEL GREENS CURTIS, P. G. M...... 1891.
w.·. RoBEBT ALBION POPPE, P. M., ............ 1891.
Florida,............... . ...
W.·. WILLIA.II Sn1s, P. M.,.......... . .... .. . .. 1891.
Georgia,...................
GKORGE HINDS, P.J. G. w., .............1886.
ldaho, ••••••••• • •• : ........ .B.·.
W.'. JOHN McMuBRY, . P. M.,. .•.. ... ..••••.• •. 1892. ·
Illinois,............... . ....

w.·.
w.·.

w.·.

w.·.

Indiana,. ..................... . •••••••••••·••• .. •••••·•••••• • ••••• ••• • •••·•••••••••
GsoBGE CLEMENT l'EBKJNS, P. G. M., .....1875.
Indian Territory,. ••••.•••• . M.·.
Iowa, .... . .................M.·. w.·. WILLIA• ABRA.HAil D.a.vrEB, P. G. M., •••• 1887.

w.·.

Italy, Grande Oriente, •• . • . • •••••••••••.. ••• ..•.• . .. •••.•••••••• ••••.••• • · • · · • · • •
W.'. WILLIA.Ill VANDEEHUBS'l', P. M.,. •••••••• • . 1893.
Kansas,.. . ................
W.·. GUSTAVUS LANGFORD SPBA.B, P. M., .•• • · 1893.
Louisiana,................ .
Maine,. ................... V.·. W.·. NA.THAN WESTON SPAULDING, P. G. T., .... 1891.
Manitoba, ......................................: . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • ••• • • • • •• • • • •
W.·. CHARLES METAPHOR CHA.Biii, P. H.,•••••• :1892.
Maryland,..... •• •• • • • • • ••
W.·. 8.a.HUEL PRAGER, P. M., . .• .... ..... ......1891.
Michigan,. ...... ......... .
w.·. SA.HURL BOND H!NOKLEY, P.H.,•.•••••• • •1891.
Minnesota,...... ... . ... ...
Mississippi, •••••••.••..•• . M,·. W.•. WILKY JA.llEB TINNIN, P. G. ~'jt · ....•••. 189j.
W.·. CHARLES HENRY BRYAN, P. II., ..•••...•. 1891.
Mi.Beonri, • • . .... • • • • • . • • • •
Nebraska, ................ • M.·. W.•. WILLIA.ll ABBA.HAil DAVIES, P. G. M., ••••. 1874..
Nevada, ...... : ............ V.·• .B.·. W1LLIA.ll HENBY HILL, P. G. Chap., •• ••••• 1880.
HENBY SA.YBB ORHE, P. G. M.,. .•.••••••. 1893.
New Hampshire, ......... . B.·.
WILLIA.II HEDGES BALDWIN, P. M., •••••• . 1891.
W.·.
•
•
•
•
•
•
...
....
New Jersey,.
WILLIA)( JOHNSTON, P. G. M:.,. .. ..... . ... .1898.
New Mexico, ...... . ...... •M.·.
W.·. WILLIA.ll LARKIN WOODROW, P. M.,. ...... 1891.
New York,.... ............
W.'. Jos&PH PETER TBUNOR, P. M., .......... 1892.
New Sonth Wales,.. .. .....
North Carolina, •.••••••••• M.·. W.·. H1BA111 NEWTON Ruona, P. G. M., ••••••••1893.

w.·.

w.·

W.·. \YILLIA.11 MONROE PRTBDI:, P. M.,•.•..• .. . . 1892.
North Dakota,..... .......
Nova Sootia,. .. . ...... : ••. V.·. R.·. JOHN DAVIDSON HAWTH'NE BROWNE, P.G.c., 1890.
1874
Ohio,. ...... .. . ......... . M.·. W.· .. WILLIA.111 ABBAHA.111 D.a.vu:s . p G M .
W.·. JA.lllES LOUIS BABHA.111 P M' . • • .,..... 1891.
Oregon, .. •• .... ·· .. . .. ....
0

'

..,............ . .

Pennsylvania, . .. .... .... •• M.·. W·.· EDllUND CLEllBN'l' ATKINSON, P. G. M., .••• 1889.
Peru, .. . .................... ..... ..... . ... .. .... .. ... ... .... ....... ... ... ....... .
Portugal, Gr. Or. Lusitano, ...... . .......... , .. . . . . ......... . ........... . .• . . . ...
Prince Edward leland, •.• •• M.·. W.·. EDWARD MYBRB PRESTON, G. M., . ... •.•.. 1893.
W.·. JACOB VOOEBANGIQI, G. Orator,. .......... 1892.
Quebec,............ . ......
W.·. CHARLES LBWIS PATTON, P. M., •. ....•... . 1893 .
Rhode Island.,.. ... ...... .
Scotland, .. .......... .. ....... .. . .. ....... .... .... . ............... . ...... .. ..... .
South Carolioa, . ••••••••• M.·. W.·. ALVAH RUSSELL CONltLIN, P. G. M.,. • • •• •1893.
Sooth Australia, ... ........ V.·. W.·. NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING, P. G. T.,. .••. 1887.
Tennessee, ......... . ... .. . . R.·. W.·. GBORGB HINDS, P. J. G. W.,. .... ... . ..... 1891.
Texas, .... . . . .... ... . . . .. . •M.·. w.·. NATHANIEL GREl!NB CURTIS, P. G. )[., ••.••• 1887.
Utah, .................... .. V.·. R.·. WILLIA.II BBNRY BILL, P •.G. Chap., ...... 1877.
Vermont, ........... ........ . ............... .... ........... .. .. . ....... . ....... .
1893
Virginia~ •••..••••••••••• •M.·. w. ·. JA.ll!Es BAUNTY STBVENS p G M

z.:: :: ::

·.1891:
W.·. JAHES WRIGHT ANDERS~N, ~. ~.
Washington,....... .........
West Virginia, ....... ... . .. •M.'. W.·. SAMUEL CRAWFORD DBNSON, P. G. M.,•. • . 1881.
Wisconsin, ............. . ... • R.·. W.·. JACOB HART NBl!'I!', P. J. G. w., . ... .. .....1887.

NOTx.-Gran!l Beoretarleo are requeoted to into"" me it t hey find any enor on thio or the
10 the namea, rank, or datee ot appol.ritment ot Repre1entative1.-Gao. JOHNllON.
11reoedlng

Pllll:••.

Gr.Bet:.

556

!Ast of Elective Grand Offe.cers

[1895.

1895.]

Of the Grand Lodge of Oal,ifornia.

557

18 59.
N A.TH'L GREENE CURTIS, .• Grand Mallter,
• PHILIP
SHEPHEARD, Dep.Gr.Master,
• EBENB?.EB LA.NB,. .Sen.Grand Warden,

w.

GRAND OFFICERS
Elected .tnce the OrKantzatlon of the Grand LodKe of California.
On tM 18th d<JJ,1 of .April, .A, L. 5851.

THOS. PORTER HA.WL.e:Y,Jun.Gr. Warden,
ADDISON MARTIN, •• ••• Grand 7reasurer,
• ALn. GURDON ABELL, Grand Seqretary.

18 60.
N' A.TH'L GREGNE CURTIS,. Grand Master,

ALVINZA. HA.YWA.RD,Jun. GrandWarden,

• PHILIP

ADDISON MA BTIN ••• • • (}rand '.lreasurer'
• ALl!IX. GURDON ABELL, (}rand SelJretary.

w. BHEPHl!IA.RD, Dep. Gr.Master,

• WM. CALDWELL BELCHER, S.G. Warden,

18 6 I •
I 8 50.
*JONA.. Dau111 STBVBNSON, ••• Gr. Master,
JOHN ASHBY ,T UTT, . Dep. Grand. Master,
• CA.LBB F.e:NNBB, • • Sen. Grand. Warden,

• SA.SOHBL WOODS, Jun. Grand Warden,
• LBVI STOWELL,. ••• • Grand 7reasurer,
•JoHN H.GmoN, .•• .• Grand. Seqretary.

1 8 51.
JOHN ASHBY TUTr, . ••••• (}rand Master,
• BBNJ. DANIEL HYAM, •• Dep. Gr. Master,

• BsNJ. S. OLDS, . . Jun. Grand Warden,
"TOWl'iSBND A. THOHA.S, (}r. 7rea.surei·,

•E. F. W. ELLIS, . • Sen. Grand Warden,

• LBVI STOw.e:LL, •••••• Grand. Seqretary.

1852.
*B&l'IJ. DANIEL HYA.ll,. •• Grand. Ma.st.er,

•JoHN RANDOLPH MoCONNBLL,J. G. War.,

•CHAS. MORTON RA.DO LIPP ,Dsp.G.Master,
• A.DOLPHUS HOLLUB, • • Sen. Gr. Warden,

ADDISON MASTIN, ••••• (Jrand 7reasurei· •
• LBVI STOWELL, •• •• ••• Grand. Searetary.

18 5 a.
• CHAS. MORTON RADOLIPP,. .Gr. Master,

• RIOHA.RD F. KNOTT, • • Jun. Gr. Warden,

• TOWNSEND A. THOMAS, Dep. Gr.Master,

ADDISON MARTIN •• • •• (}rand 7reasurei· •
•LEVI STOWELL, •• •••• Grand Secretary.

• JoHNR1oosCaANDA.LL,8r. <Jr. War<Un,

18 54.

• J AS. LA WRBNC£ ENGLISH, • Gr. Master,

CALEB ELJSHA. WILCOXON, J. Gr. Warden,

•WM. CALDWELL BELOHKR, D. G. Master,

•JAMES LAIDLKY,. •• • Grand 7reasurer,

•JOHN WM. HARVILL£, Ben. Gr. Warden,

~ALU. GuBDON A..BBLL, Grand Secretary.

1862,
• WM. CALDWELL BELOH£R, Gr. Master,
GILBERT BURNET CLA.IBORNE,D.G.Master.
•JOHN Wl!. HARVILLE, Sen. Gr. Warden, .

GcLBBR'I' BURNET CLAIBOBNR,D.G.Master,

WM. A.BR.lHA.M0AvIRs,Jun.Gr. Warden,
• JA.ME·s LAIDLEY, • .• •• Grand '.lreasurer,

Louis COHN, . .• • Senior Grand Warden,

• ALBX. GURDON ABELL ,(}rand Se!Jretary.

] 864,

• Wx. CALDWELL B11:LCHRR, Gr. Master,
GILBERT BcJR~i:r CLA.!BORN£,D.G.Master,
WM. A.BRA.HA.llDAVIBS, Sen. Gr. Warden,

• He:NBY HA.Be: HARTLEY, J. Gr. Warden,
• J A.}IKS LAIDLKY , •••• Grand 7reasurer,
• A.LBX:. GURDON ABBLL, Grand8e!Jretary•

N,A.TH'L GaE:EN.e: CURTis,.Dep.<Jr.Master,

ADDISON MARTIN,... . •• C:Jrand 7reaaurer,
• LBVI STOW.B:LL, • • • ••• GrandSecretary.

•[SA.AC SrrrvKNe: TITUS, Sen.Gr. Warden,

• SA.llCl!IL A.. MERRITT, Jun. Gr.. • Warden,

• TowNSB!ID A. THOHA.S,Dep.Gr. Master,
~JOHN A. RAYMOND,. .Sen. l}r. Warden,

ADDISON MARTIN, • •• • GranD. 7reasurei-,
• L£VI STOWELL,. • •••• Grand Secretary.

18 5 6.
• WM. HEllRY HOWARD,. . Grand. Master,

• PETER WILKINS RA.NDL.B:, J. G. Warden,

*JOHN A. RA.YXOND,Dep. Grand Master,

ADDISON MARTIN, • •••• Grand 7reasurer,

* L&llU&L LYON,. • • Sen. Grand. Warden,

«A.LEX:. GURDON ABBLL,Grand Secretary.

1857.
NATH'L GREEN.a: CURTIS,. GranD. Ma&er,
•CHARLES MA.SSH,. .Dep. Grand Master,
•A.A.BONDA.VIS PA.BB:,. Sen. Gr. Warden,

•JOHN BAPTIST£ BoPB, Jun. Gr. Warden,
ADDISON MARTIN,. • •• • GranD. 7reasurer,
•Aux:. GURDON A..BKLL,GranD. Secretary.

1858.

*JA}IES LAIDLEY,. ••• Grand Treasurer,
• ALBX. GuaDoN ABBLL, Grand Secretary.

186 5.

WM. A.BRA.HUI 0A.V!Rs, Dep. Gr. Mast6r,

• WM. HENRY HOWARD,. .Grand MatJter,

• [SA.AO SuTVENE TITUS, Jun. Gr. Ward. ,

G!LBll.RT BIJRllE1'CLUBOll.N£, flr . .'11.CL~ter,

• RoBERTN. WooD,Jun. Grand. Warden,

18 5 5.

• J A.ME~ LAIDLEY, •••• Grand 7reasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, (}rand Se!Jretary.

1863 •
• Wl!. CALDWELL BBLOHEB, (}r. Master,

• WM. HENBY HOWARD,. Grand. Matser,
*Re:OTOR ELISHA Cou,Sen. Gr. Warden,

*JoHN BANJISON HEWSON, J. Gr. Warde·n ,

18 Ii 6.
GILBERT BuRN£T CLuaoaN11, Gr. Master,

TnoMA.S BECK, . . Junior Grand Warden,

• lhNRY HARE HAR'l'LBY,Dep. G. Master,
•WM. HENRY P£TERSON,
Gr. Warden,

• JAllES LAIDL£Y, . • • Grand Trea.surer,
.. ALll. GURDON ABELL, (}rand SelJretary.

s.

1867.
WILLIA.}{ ABRA.IIA.ll DAVIES,. Gr. Master,

• LRONIDA.S E. PRATT, Jun. Gr. Warden,

•HENBY HARR HARTLEY, Dep.G.Master,
TllOllA.S BEOK, . . Senior Grand Warden,

•JAMES LAIDL.e:Y, • ••• Grand 7reasurer,
• A.Lsx:. G u sDoN Ae11LL, Grand8e1Jretary.

186S.
•CHARLES M:A.BSH, .• • •• • Grand. Master,
•LEONIDAS E. PRATT, Dep. Gr. Master,
TH110. Gu11:v A.BA. CocJIRILL, 8.G. Warden,

FsEo. F.e:BDINA.ND BABSS, J. Gr. Warden,
"'JA.Me:s LAIDLRY, • •• • Grand Treasurer,
.. ALBX._ GURDON ABBLL, Grand Seqretary.

186 9.

N'A.TH1L GREENE CURTIS,. (}rand Master,

• JA.s.WITHERSPOON RIOXN.B:LL,J.G. War.,

• PHILIP W. SHEPHEARD, Dep. Gr.Master,

ADDI90N MARTIN, ••• • GranD. 7reasurer,

• LEONIDAS E. PRATT, ••• Grand Mastllr,
*ISA.AC 8UTVRN£ TITUS, l)ep.Gr. Mast.er,

• WILLIA.MMOCORMIOII, Sen.Gr. Warden,

*A.LEX.GURDON ABl!ILL,Grand SelJretary•

*Jon N SilERRILL WA.RD.,Sen.Gr. Warden,

Rion A.BD DA.Ls,. Junior Grand Warden,
• Ju1£S LAIDLEY,. • • • Grand '.lreasurer,
•A.LEX. G URDON .ABELL, Grand.Secretary.

•Deceased.

List of Elective Grand Officers

558

1895.]

[1895.

Of the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornia.

18'10.
•LEONIDAS E. P1u.TT, • • Grand. Master,

• BENJ. HORTON FBEBMAN, J. Gr. Warden,

* ISAAC SUTVENB TITUS, • Dep.Gr.Master.

• J AHBS LAIDLEY ..... Grand Treasurer.

*CBAB. Louis WIGGIN, Sen. Gr. Ward.en,

~ ALBX. GURDON ABELL, Grand Searetary.

18 81.

t

CLAY WEBSTER TAYLOR, (}rand Master,

• THOS.JEFFEBSON BowEBS,Jr.G. Ward,,

JOHN QUINCY ADUIB, Dep. Gr. Master,

• MOBBS HRLLEB, .•••• Grand Treasurer,

• JONATHAN DOAN HINES,

.. ALKX. GURDON ABELL, (}rand Secretary.

1871.

s. G. Warden,

18 8 2.

• LEONIDAS E. PRATT, •• Grand. Master,

G110. CLEMENT PERKINS, Jun. G1·. Warden,

OLAY WEBSTER TAYLOR, Grand Master,

*OBAS. LOUIS WIGGIN,.Dep.(}r.Master.

"JAMES LAIDLBY, •••• Grand '.lreasurer,

• JONATHAN DOAN HINES, D. Gr. Master,

• BBNJ. HORTON FREEMAN.

.. ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand S~aretary.

EDKUND 0LEMENT,ATKINBON. S. r:Jr. War•

s. G. Warden,

559

1872.

GEORGE HINDS, • • Junior Grand. Warden,
• MosES HELLER, ..... Grand Treasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Gi·and Secretary•

18 8 3.

• f,EONIDAS E. PRATT, •• <Jrand Master,

•JoaN MILLS BnowNB,.Jun. Gr. Warden,

• JONATHAN DOAN HINES, (}rand Master,

"BENJ.HORTON FREBlllAN,Dep.G. Master,

• JAMES LAIDLEY ..... Grand Treasurer.

WILEY JAMES TINNIN, Dep. Gr. Malfl.er,

Cho. CLEMRNT PERKINS, Sr. Gr. Warden,

• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand Secretary.

EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINHON,8.(}, Ward.,

HIRAM NRWTON RUCKEB, Jr.Gr. Warden,
• MosES HELLER, •••• • Grand. Treasurer,
.. ALEX. G u BDON ABELL, Grand Secretary.

18·7 3.
• lsAAO SuTVENE TITUS, Gran<f. Master,

CBAs. Eow. MITCHELL, Jun. Gr. Warden,

•JONATHAN DOAN HINES, Grand Master,

G10. CLElllBNT PERKINS, Dep. Gr. Master,

*JAMBS LAIDLEY, •••• (}rand 'n·easurer,

WILEY JAMES TINNIN' •• Dep. (Jr .Master'

•JOHN MILLS BROWNB,Sen. Gr. Warden,

• ALBX. GURDON ABBLL, Grand Secretary.

EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON,8.(}. Ward.,

HIRAM NEWTON RUCKE&,Jr.Gr. Warden,
• MosEs HELLE&,••••• Grand Treasurer,
• ALKX. Gue.DON ABELL, Grand Secretary.

18 8 5.
GEQ. CLEMENT PERKINS,. .Grand M(Lstm-,

WILEY JAMES TINNIN, Jun. Gr. Warden,

WILEY JA.HK9 TINNII(, .. . • (}rand Master,

HENBY HAY KNAPP, Jr. Grand Warden

•JOHN MILLS BROWNE,.Dep. (Jr. Master,

• J UlEB LAIDLEY,. ••• Grand '.lreasurer,

EDHUND0LEM£NTATKINBON,Dep.G.Mas.,

WM. BOYD PABKBB, Sen. Grand Warden,

• ALEX. GORDON ABBLL, Grand Secretary.

HmAM NBWTON RUOKRR,

NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING, G. Trear.:
• ALKX. GUBDON ABELL, Grand Secretary•

s. r;, Warder.,

1875.

18 8 6.

•JOHN MILLS BROWNE, •• Grand Master,

JAcoB HART NEFF, Jun. Grand Warden,

EDMUND CLRMENT ATKINSON,.(}. Master,

•Gius. Lours WIGGIN, Dep. Gr•. Master,

• JAMES LAIDLEY, •• •• Grand TI·easurer,

HIRAM NEWTON RUCKER, Dep.G. Master,

WILEY JAHBS TINNIN, Sen. Gr. Warden,

• ALEX. GURDON ABBLL, Grand Secretary.

MORRIS MABOH EBTBE, Sen.(}r. Warden •

18 7 6.

(}rand Master,
.. Cius. [,oms WIGGIN,. Dep. Gr. Master,
*WM. SEWALL WBLLS, Sen. Gr. Warden,
•JoHN MILLS BROWNE,.

ALV AB RUBBllLL CONKLIN, J. G. Warden,
NATHAN WBSTON SPAULDING, G. '.lreas.,
.. ALRX. GUBDON ABELL, Grand Sercetary.

18 8 7.

SoLoN WM. CBAIGUll, Jun. Gr. Warden,

HIRAM NEWTON RUCKER, (}r~nd. Master,

WILLIAM JOHNSTON, Junior Gr. Warden,

• J AJl!iS LAIDLllY, •••• Grand '.lreasurer,

MORRIS MARCH ESTllE, De:p. Gr. 1llaster,

NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING, G. Treas,,

.. ALEX. GURDON ABBLL' Grand Secretary,

ALVAH RUSSELL CONKLIN,

"ALBX. GURDON ABELL, (}rand Secretary•

1877.

s. G. Warden,

18 !18.

0

WM. HllNRY CRANK,..Jun. <Jr. Warden,

MORRIS MARCH ESTEE, •• Grand Master,

•CeAS. LOUIS WIGGIN, Dep. Gr. Master,

• MosEB HELLER, •••• G1·and 7reasurei·,

ALvAB RussELL CoNltLIN, D. G. Master,

*WM. WILSON TRAYLOB,Sr.Gr. Warden,

• ALEX. GURDON ABRLL, Grand Secretary.

WILLIAM J OBKllTON, Sr. Granlt Warden,

*JOHN MILLS BROWNE, •. Grand. Master,

1878.
RoB'T CBIDLEY BaoDBK, Jr. Gr. Warden,

.lrlOBBIS MA.BOB hBE, •• (}rand Master,

• WM. WILSON TRAYLOR, Dep. G. Master,

,. MOBBS HELLllR, • •• • Grand

WILLIAM JOHNSTON, Depr.Uy Gr. Ma.Bf,er,

WM. HBNKY CRANE, • • Sen. Gr. Warden,

•CHARLES R.n GBITHAN, Sr. Gr. Ward.,

1879.
• W111. WILBON TRAYLOR., Grand.Master,

JoaN QUINCY ADAMs, Jun. Gr. Warden,

S.ur'L CRAWFORD DENSON,Dep.G.Master,

• M.osEs HELLER, ••• • Grand '.lreasurer,

CLAY WEBSTER TAYLOR,Sen.G. Warden,

• ALEX. GURDON ABBLL, (}rand S(J(1retary.

1880.

*ALEX. GURDON ABBLL, Grand.Secretary.

18 8 9.

"JOHN MILLS BROWNE,.. Grand Master,

'.lreasurer,
*ALEX. GURDON ABllLL, Grand Secretary

MA.Raus DEBKHIBM Bouucx, J. G. War.,
NATHAN WESTON SPAULDil(G, (Jr. Treas.,

HENBY BAYBE 0BHB,..Jun. Gr. Warden.
NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING, (Jr. '.lrea&
*ALEK. GURDON ABELL,(JrandSecretary.

1890,

Gr. Master,
Dep. Gr. Master,
*CHARLES RAY GBITHAN,Sr. (Jr. Warden,
ALVAH RUSBllLL CONKLIN,

HENBY SAYRE OBHB,jJun. Gr, Warden,

WILLIAM JoaNsToN,

NA.THAN WESTON SPAULDING, Gr. 1'rea1.,
..ALKX. GUBDON ABELL, •• Gr. Secretary.

J 8 91,

SAMUEL CRAWFORD DENSON,. Gr.Master,

OBRIN WHIT'B HOLLENBECK,J.G. Warden,

WILLIAM JOHNSTON, ..... Grand Master,

CLAY WEBSTBB TAYLOR, Dep.G.Master,

"' MosEs H11LLKB,. ••• Grand

•CHAS. RAY GBITllAI'l,..Dep. Gr. Master,

NATHAN WKSTON SPAULDING, Gr.1'rea8.,

llENRY SAYRE ORME, Sen. (Jr. Warden,

GxoRG11 JOHNSON, ... ;. Grand Secretary•

JOHN QUINCY .ADAMS,.Sen. (Jr. Warden,

'J;reasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand Searetary.

*Deceased.

JAMES BAUNTY BTEVENS,Jun.Gr. Warden,

*Deceued.

560

List of Ekctive Grand Officera.
1892.

•CHAJILEB RAY GRITVAN, (}rand Master,
HENBY SAYRE OR:iu:,..Dep. (},.,Master,
JA.llllS BA.UNi'Y BTEVllNS, Sr.Gr. Warden,

EDWARD .MYERS PBESTON, Jr. Gr. Ward.,
NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING, Gr. Treas.,
GBOBGll JoHNBON,. .. . Grand Seuretary.

IiN.DEX:

18 9 3.

HBNRY SAY.BE O!Ulll, ... . Grand Master,
JA.llilllS BAUNi'Y ST&VENS, Dep.Gr.M<Uter,
Enw'D MYERS PBBSTON, ..Sr.Gt'. Wat'den,

W111. THOlllAS LUOA.B,. Jun. (}r. Warden,
EnwA.RD OoLll!llAN, ... (}rand '.lreasurer,
GllOBGll JOHNSON' .. .. (}rand Secretary.

1894.

JAKES BA.UNTY ST.&VllNS,.,(}ranct Master,
EDwA.BD MYllBS PRESTON, D. (}.Maller,
WILLIA.Ill THOlllAS LUCAS, St'. <{· Warden,

THOMAS FLINT, JR., .. Jun. Gr. Warden,
EDwA.BD COLBHAN,. . .. Grand Treasurer,
GllOBGE JOHNSON,. •• .. Grand Secretary.

1895.

EDWABD .MYllBS PBESTON' (}rand Master,
WILLIA.Iii THOMAS LUOAS, Dep. (}.Maller,
THous FLINT; J&, /Jen. b'randWarden,

FBANI: MABION ANGllLLOTTI, J,(}, Ward.,
EDwABD COLEMAN, Grand Treasurer,
GEORGE JOHNSON, (}rand Sem·etary.

•Deoeaaed.

A
ABBOTT, DAVID CONGER-Relative to, ...................................... ... 213
Acooums-Of the Grand Beoretary and Grand Treasnrer-Relative to, ..'1, ,2, 222226, 256-259
ADDRESS-Of the Grand Master-Report on, .................... . .......... 11, 220
ALLOWANOBS-To Representatives of Lodges.............................. 274--279
~LKA.NA.o-Of Foll Moons, etc., ...................................... .......... 296
ANDEBSON's .MA.NUAL-Relative to, ....................................... . 2i5, 270
AllENDlll&NTB-Proposed-To the'By·Laws of snn<b'y Lodges-Relative w, ........ 39
APPOINTKllNTs-Of Grand Officers, ....................................... .....280
Of Committees and to fill vacancies, ••• •••••• 11, 15, 25, 55, 283, 280, 281
APrROPRU.TIONs-For sundry purposes-Relative to,. .241, 24'2, 2t8, 258, 259, 268, 273
~TTBNDANOB-Of members at this Communication-Relative to,. ............ 10, 281
A:rFILIA.TION-Relative to,. ........................ .. ....... ... ................ 266

B

..

BoABDS OF RBLIBF-Mas0tafo-Reports of-Relative to-Report on, •••. /i8-71, 219,
24'2, 24'3
BY·LAws OF Loooss-Amendments to-Report of OommUtee on,. ••• ••• ••.• . 39, 269
B1LL, J. E.-Approprlation to,. ....... . ................... , ............... . .. . 241
»owns-Of Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer, .......... . .............. 16, 256
Blue Lakes Water Co.-Relat.ive to,. ......................... 1', 225, 268
BllLOW:R, W111. 0.-Relative to funeral of and Memorial Servloe, .. 3-6, 13, 1', 283,
~3-266, 259, 260
BBA.UN, ROBBBT-Restored,. ... . .. . ....................................... ..... 217
BORUCK, MABOUS DllBKHIElll-Relative to memory of, ...................... 261, 290

c
CHA.PlllA.N, JOHN-Relative 1o orphan children of, .......................... 219, 2'1
CHARTEBllD LODGllS,. ....................................... ............... 87. 281
CHARTBBs-Report of Committee on-Relative to, .....••••..••. S6, 37, 240, 271, 272
Oo1111111TTBES APl'OINTBD-Regnlar, Btaodiog and Special,. •. 11, 26, 65, 238, 280, 281
Oo111HITTBEB RllPOBTED-Regular and Standing-See names of Committees.
Special-On Anoual Address of the Grand MBl!ter,. •.. , ...........219, 220
On Anons! Report of the Graod Mecretary,..................... 220, 221
Ou Aonoal Report of the G~aod Lecturer, ••••..•••••••.•• • •••• 284', 236
On Widows' and Orphans' Home,. ••••••••••••••• •• •••. 55--08, 212, 218
OoBNllR STONBB-Relative to layiog of, ....................................... .. 17
COllBBsPoNDBNOB-Repon of Oommittee on,. .............................. . 72-210
C1111ntNT1A.Le-Reports of Oommittee on, . ..• . .....••.......•••.•26-<U, 72, 233, 234
CUBTIS, N. GBBBNE-Trnstee of Home-Appointment of,...................... 281
{bmJlsTEsBN, RoBBBT-Oase continued, ...................................... ..218

Irukx.

ii
D
DAVIS, WH. ELLSWORTH-Reprimand amrmed, •.••••• . ••••••••.••••••• ••.•••••. 217
DBGRBB OF :MASTBR JILl.so:11-Relative to lectnre in, ........ . ............... 2'6, 266
DIBPBNSATioNs-For new Lodges issned-Relative to, .••••.•••••••••• •..•••. •• •• 36
SpeciaJ-Issned for snndry pnrposes-Relat lve to, ................ . 39, 4.0
DUBS-Relative to payment of, . ................ ................ ... . ........ . 16, 20
DBOISIONs-By Grand Master-Report of Committee on, .............. 17-20, 261-266
l>BGRsss-Bece ived in another Jnrisdiotion-Re lative to, .. . ••••••....••18, 263, 264
DnuTTBD MABo:Ks-Relatlve to, ................ ................ ....15, 16, 262, 265

E
ELEOTIO:K-Of <J1·and Offecws-Relativ e to, .••••...•.••••.. •..••. 269, 267, 270, 271
Of Lodge omcers-Relativ e to, ................ .............. 17, 18, 262
ELECTIVE GRAND 0Fl!'IOBRB-Relative to expenses of for attendance, ••••.•.••.•. 268
ExPusss-Of Elective Grand Omoerll--Of Grand Lectnrer-Relat ive to, ••. 258, 268
EuBBT-On books of Grand Secretary and Grand Treasnrer-Rep ort of,. .. 257, 258
EXPULSIONS, SUBl'ENBION AND RBl!TOBATION-List of aftirmed,. .•.••••••••••• •• •• 537

F
F.lLL RIVER Looo11, No. 270-Relatlve to-Charter revoked . ............. 16,37, 240
F11ss FOB DEGREES-Relative to,. ................ ................ ...........89, 243
F1NANCBs-Reporta of Qom. on-On books, etc., of Gr. Sec. and Gr. Treas.,.257, 258
On bonds of Grand Secretary and Treasnrer, ... .... .. .. ............. 256
On Boards of Relief, .. ................ ................ ......... . 24.2, 24.3
On appropriation for Past Grand Master John A. Tntt .••.••.••..••••. 24.l
On expert on books ................ ................ ........ 24.2, 257, 258
On appropriations for salary and expenses of Grand Lectnrer... . • . ••. 258
On appropriations for the se¥eral Masonic Boards of Relief.•.••••• 24.2, 248 .
On appropriations for attendance of the elective Grand omcers .•••.•• 268
On appropriations for salaries of Granci Officers, eto., for the year••••. 258
On appropriations for Past Grand Master's jewel and picture ......... 273
On Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Bome ................ ..... .. . 241, 242
On appropriation to Marin Lodge for.J. E. Ball. ............ . .. ..... .. 241
FoBBIGN GRA:KD BoDur.s-Rep. of Com. on Correspondence on proceedings of, 72-210
. FU:KDS OFLoDGE l!'OB SocIAL PoBl'08EB-Rela tlve to .......... .. ................ . 19
FoBH Ol!' REcoRDS ol!' TRIAL-Relative to ................ ................ ........ 36

G
GENEBAL RBGULATION No. 20-Relative to ................ ................ ...... 259
Goodrich, Albert Lorin-Expulsio n confirmed ................ ....... .'U6
Gordon, Charles H.-Restoration denied ..•••••..•••••.. ••••••••••••. 218
GRAND BoDu:s-..!lmJa d-Repor\8 on-List of in correspondence wlth, ..72-210, 550, 551
GRAND LBOTUBBB-Relative to appointment of and salary for, ••••.•.••••.•. 258, 280
Annual Report of-Report of Committee on, ..•.•...•..•.•.. 4.3-55, 234, 235
GRAND Looo11-Conven ing of for various purposes, ........... .... ............ 16, 17,
GRAND Looo11s-Ofthe United States and Brittah .America-List of,. ........ 550, 551
GRAND MASTBR-Annnal Address of-Decisions of-Rep. of Com. on, .. 11-25, 219, 220
GRAND Ouxc.BBB-Elec tion, appointment and installation of, .••.••.•••. . 270, 271, 280
List of elected since organization of the Grand Lodge, ............ 556, 560
For the year commencing October, A. L. 5895,. .•....••.••••: ••.•••.••• . 8

iii

GBAND 0BATOB-Anunal Oration of-Action npon
2
GBAND SECRllTARY-Annual Report of-Report of
GBA:KD TREASURE~Annual Reports of-Report of Committee oo, .. 222-225, 257, 258
GreeoVIlle Lodge-Relative to consolidation with Sincerity, ........ , •. 239
GRIBVANCBB-ReportB of Oommittee onEdo~ard Larthe-Expelle d by Grand Lodge, ................ .......... 214
David Albe~t Shaw-Case coutluned, .•..•••• •. .... •...•• •.•.•.•••••. 214
Joseph Daniel Jonrdan-Snspen slon of confirmed, ....•••...•.•.• , ••. 215
Stonewall ~ackRon Holliday-Expul sion of confirmed, . ......• . .•.•... 216
Albert Lorm Goodrich-Expu lsion of confirmed, .•••........•.•. ••.... 216
James Velsir-Restorat iou denied
216
William
· · · • · · • · · • • · · • • · • • · • • · 21 7
Rb t BEllsworth Davls-Reprim·~~d -~m~~~d·,.· ...............
..... .
o er ranu-Restored, ... ... ..... .... .... ............... .. ....... 217
Robert Ohrestesen-Oas e contluned............... ............. 217, 218
Char~es H. Gordon-Restor ation denied,... . ••••.....••.... ...... • • 218
Archie Mathewsou-Exp nlsion amrmed,. ...•..•... • ••.•. .... ... . , 218, 219
Robert J. Paden-.Expnlsi ou amrmed, •.•....••.•...•. ......••••• ~221, 222

(j~~~i~i~~~~:.-.·.·::.s~: ·2::.-~~~

H
Ho11r11-For widows and .orphans of Ma sous-Rel. to .. 15, 25, 55, 58, 212, 213, 2'1, 242
HOLLIDAY, STOllBWALL J.-Expulslon confirmed, . .. ................ ............215

I
bsrBOTOBB-Of Masoni.c .mstricta-Relati ve to, ...•..••...••... 16 48-55 23• 235
l118TALLATIONB-Relative to ................ ................ ................
. '
' ....
.., 280

J
JUBIBl'BUDDOB-Reporta oj Committee onRelat'.ve to ~ecisions on qnestloua of Mas. law by the Gr. Master,.261-265
Rela~ve to hfe membership,................ ............ . ....... 266, 2G7
Relative to Lodge La Vallee de France
to Memorial Services at
.'.'.'.'.' .' .'.'.'.'.' :::.·::
Relative to Graud Lodge Representative
237 2
Relative to Grand Lodge of Victoria
'" • • • · · · .. · • • • · • • • · • ... · ·
, 38
to consolidation of
:: : : : :
Relative to special dispensations issued
Relative to non·&mliates
, .. • ·' ... • • ·" • • • • · • • • · · •• · • · • .240
.
.
................ .... ···••• •·•• •••.•.•••••••••.
266
Relative to Sisson Lodge-Represe ntative Fund
2
Relative to rupture or hernia
'· · · · · " · • • • · · · • ·• • • • • · 26
66
J onrdan, J o~eph Daniel-Sn~~·;~{~~· ~f ·~irli~e· d.• • .. " • • • • • • .. • • • · · · 7
..... ... ............215

Bela~ve

Relat~ve

Washi~~;~~::.'

Greenvii1~-~~d·Bi~~~~it; L~d~·e·s:::

.'23~,"=
:~:

L
LoooB&-Charte red this year-Retnrna of-Statistical Tables of •••• 280 296 588-547 .
LoooB&-Numbe r of in jurisdiction
'
'
Lil!'E MBllBERSHll'-Relative to
,. · .... •· · · · · • ••· · · · · · · · · · · · · • • ·· · · · • 31,' 54.7, 5'8
LARTHll, EDouABD-Ex elled , ................ ................ ....... 219,266, 267
p
,... ••• • •• ••. . • • •. • • .••
21'
LmllABY-Relative to
· ................
.. · ..
.. .· ....
· · · · ..
•· ............
· .. ·• · · · ·•• ·..· ...
· · 35..
, ................

iv

I~.

M
MARIN LoooB-Appropriatlon account or J.E. Ball, •.•••.•••••.•.•..•••.•...• .. 2il
MASONIO BOARDS OF RELIEF-Reports of-Relative to-Report of Committee on, .•.
.
58-71, 242, 243
MASTER MABON DEGBB!l-Examination in.lecture of, •... •••..... ..•••••. •• •• 2'11, 265
MATHEWSON, AROHn:-Expulsio·n affirmed .•.••••.•...••••..•..••••• •..•.• 218, 219
M.&.YER, J.a.coB, P. G. M. or Oregon-Reception of,. . ....••••• ...• ••••..•.• •· •.•. 271
l!hllllERBRIP-TOt~I in jnrisdiction,. ...... .... . .... .. . ... ... .... ........ 37, 647, 548
MoNUKENT-To PaatGrand Master Leonidas E. Pratt-Relative to, •...•. . •••• U, 225
MOURNING P.&.GBB-ln memory of Past Elective Grand Officers,. .•..•.....• .288-290
In memory of Past Masters of jnrisdlctlon, deceased,•...••...•••. 291-294
MEMORIAL SERVICE -At Washington-Relative to,...................... .40, 236, 237
In honor of Past Grand Master Belcher-Relative to, ••....... 25, 253-256

N
NoN·P.&.YMllNT OF DUES-Relative to, .••••.••••.••••••..••••.• .•••••.••. • • . 19, 264
NoH·AFFILIATBB-Relative to, •..••.. •. ......•••. ••...•••.. • .•• ••. ••• . •.•• . 243, 266
.N°ECBOLOGY••.. • • • •. •. • .. .. • •. • • • . • • .• ... • .. • •. • ..... • • . . •. • . . • .•. . • •. • • • 288-294

0
OPFIOIAL V1s1TB-Relatlve to,. ••.....••.••••..•••.....•• •.••.•••.•.•. 20-~4. 43-48
ORATION-By Grand Orat~r-Relative to, •. • •• •. .. .•.•... •.••• •..••..••.•25, 246-253

p
PAST GlUllD MASTBR18 PIOTUBE AND JEWBL,. •....•.•.•....•.•••• · ..•. • · .. • • •. · · .273
P.ABT M.ABTEBS-Deceased-Mou rning Paites, •.•••.• ..•••.. • .•....••.•.. 233, 288-294
PAY OF l'ih1411EBS-R~orl of Oom.mitlee on-Allowances by Committee, .• . 273-279
PADEN, ROBEBT J.-Expulsion affirmed,••. .•. ...• ......... . ......••••••••• . 221, 222
PBTITIONs-For dispensation to establish new Loilges, ...... •....... ••. .•• •.•.••. 36
For restoration to privileges of Masonry-Action npoo, .. . 88, 216, 217, 218
PRATT, LEONIDAS E:-Pas! (}rand. Matter-Rd. to moonment in memory of, U, 226
PBEl!B1lTATJON-Of testimonial to Paet Grand Master HENRY S. OBMB, . . ... . ••24.3-2'5
PBOOUDINGS-Relative to,. .......................... ................... 34-36, 241

J'flde:J;.

v

REBTORA'l'ION-Expulsions and Bnepension-Llst of,•••. . .•••••....•.•••..•.••••.1537
RETRIALS, . • • . • . • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . . • • . • •••••••.•....•••..•••••••. .•••• : • . • • • • S8
RETURNS-Report of Oommittee on,. •...... ... •••.••••.•..••••••.••••••• 48, 226-234.
RUl'TURB-Relative to, . . • . . . . . . • . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • •.... , .........•..222, 267

s
SALARIES-Of Grand Officers-Relative to,. ..................... 16, 17, 220, 235, 258
APAULDING, NATHAN W.-Relative to· deficit of, .................... 226, 256, 258, 259
SPEOIAL DlSPENBATIONs-Issned by the Grand Master-Relative to, ..••••..••. 36, 24.V
t;TATISTICAL TABLES-Of retorns or Lodges ror the year, etc.,. •.••••••.• . •.•• 538-64.7
SUSPENSION, EXPULSIONS AND RESTORATION-List of, . • • . • . • . . • • • . . . • • . . • • • • • • •. 537
SoUTHERN PAOIFIO CoHP.ANY-Relative to transportation, •••..•••..• . •••.••.... 25
S1BBON Loooa-Dnes to Representative Fond-Relative to,....... . .•••..•.•• 40, 266
SHAW, DAVID A.LBBBT-Case continned, .•••.••.•••••••• : • •.••..••.•...••.....•. 214.
SINCEBlTY Looos-Belative to consolidation with Greenvilltl, .....•••..•....•••• 239

T
TllSTIMOl{IAL-To Past Grand Master James Baonty Stevens-Relative to,. •••.•. 273
TRIAL REOOBDS-'.ZT-amoripta of-Relative to,. .......•....•..........••. ..•.•. 37, 38
TRUSTEES MABONIO WIDOWS' AND 0RPH.AllS' HOME-Appointment of, •. ' ••. 15, 272, 281
TRUSTEES OF LODGES-Responsibility of, . . • • • • • • • • . • .••••••........•....•..18, 263
TUTT, JoHX A.-Relative to appropriatioo in aid of, . •••..•• •• .•••.• • ..•••••• 24., 241
TH.Al<Ks-of Grand Lodge,. •.•••. •.. •••.•..•.•..• .• .•• .... •.. •. •...••••. 26, 263, 280
TYLER OF A LODGE-Rights or, ..••..••••••••.•......••.• ••.•...••..•••••••• 18, 263
TBANSPOBTATION-Relative to free,••..••••...•••••.••••..... . ...•.......•••• Iii, 25

v
VALLEY Loooic, No. 135-Relative to appropriation.to, ..... .. ...........16, 269, 268
VBLSIR, JAllES-:--Restoration denied, .. . . ... .... ..... ....... .. .................. . 216
Visrrs-To Lodges and Districts by the Grand Master and Grand Lectnrer-Relative
to,. • • • • • . . . • . • • • • . . . . . . • . . • • • . . . • . .. . . • . . . . . • . . . . • . • ••• 20-24, 4.3-4.8
VICTORIA GR.AND LoooE-Relative to, ........ : .••.....•..•............•• ..• . 4.0, 239
VAO.A.l{OIBS-Appointments to fill,. .............. . .... . .............. 11, 15, 272, 281

R.
bosll'Ts-By the Gr. Secretary and Gr. Treasurer-Relative to,. . 41, 42, 223, 282-287
lbFRESHMEln'!l-Relatlve to, . ......... , ....... .... ....••..•..•..... ••••• .... 19, 265
RELIEF-Masonic Boards of-Reports of-Relative to-Report or Committee on, ..•.
17, 58-71, 242, 243, 269
RBPoRTB-Of Regnlar, Standing and Special Oom'tees-See Committees Reported.
or the Grand Secretary-Report of Oommittee on, •••.... .•. • • .•.. 220, 221
Of the Grand Treasnrer, .......................... .............. 257, 258
Of the Grand Lectnrer-Report of Oommittee on, •..•••....•..•••. 23J, 235
Of the Inspectors, as condensed in Gr. Lectnrer's Rep't--Rep't on, •. 4.8--53
Of the Masonic Boards of Relief-Report of Oommittee on, ...••... 242, 243
RKPBBSBllTATIOl{-Jn the Grand Lodge-Relative to, •.•.•. • .••••• ••. •...•••. 10, 281
REPRESENTATIVE FtJl{l)-Relative to dnes for acconnt of, .. . . • ..•••.•• . .•. 40, 266, 279
RKPRBBBNTATIVKS-From and to the Grand Lodge of California-Relative to-Lista
or,. .•• • •••.. . .••••..•.••...••.•.•...... •..••..•••••.•...••. 40, 237, 238
RBsBRVll FUNI>-Report of Grand Treasurer on,. •.•••• • •••••••• ••• .••••.•••. 225, 226

WIDOWS' AND 0RPH.A.llS 1 Holllll-Belative to, •••• •• •• . 15, 26, 55, 68, 212, 213, 241, 242
WILOOX, WALTER c.ABBY-Belative to, ...•..•.••. •••••••••• ••.••••••..•••••• 21, 246

Grand Lodge of California.
I, GBORGB JOHNSON, Gra.nd Secreta.ry or the M.·.

:w.·. Gre.nd Lodge of

Free a.nd Accepted Ma.sons of the Sta.te of Ca.lifornia., do hereby certify tha.t the
following pa.ges conta.in a. true a.nd fa.ithful tra.nscript of the proceedings of tha.t
Body a.t Its. Forty·seventh Annua.l Oommunlea.tlon-commenced a.t the City of Sa.n
Francisco on Tuesda.y, the thirteenth da.y of October, A. L.S896, a.nd terminated
ou Saturda.y, the seventeenth da.y of sa.id month-a.ud of the returns of the subor·
dinate Lodges, together with other matters authorized to be published.

of Ca.lifornia., a.t the office of the
Gre.nd Secretary in the Ma.sonic
Temple, City of Sa.n Fraucisco, this
first da.y of December, in the Yee.r
of Light, Five Thousa.ud Eight Hundred a.ud Nin6ty·aix.

PR OC EE DI NG S
Ol!' THE

·M...w. . GRAND LODGE
OJ!'

Free and Accepted Masons
.

Ol!' THE

STA TE OF CAL IFOR NIA,
AT ITS

FORTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT

THE MASONIC TEMPLE, IN THE CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO :
COMMENCED ON

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13th, A. D. 1896, A. L. 5896,
AND TERMINA TED ON

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17th, A. D.1896, A. L. 5896.
I

'

SAN FRANCISCO:
FRANK EASTMAN & Co., PRIXTEB S, 509 CLAY STREET.

1896.

I
GR AN D OF FI CE RS
OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

•

FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 5896.

..•••• . GRAND MASTER, •.• •. Santa Mari a;
M.'. W.·. WILLIAM THOMAS LUOAS,
....DsP. Ga..um M'ASTBR,.San Juan ;
R.•. W.·. THOMAS FLINT, Ja., .... . .....
... SEN. GB. WAKDU, ... San Ra,fa el;
TI,
R.·. W.·. FRANK MARION ANGELLOT
. JUN. GB. WARDEN, .. Bnn l!ranci1co;
......
ON,
PA'IT
W.·. CHARLES LEW IS
.. . GUNDTBEASUBKB, .. San Franc isco;
V.·. W.'. EDWARD COLEMAN, .... ......
.... GRAND S11cRBTABY,•. 8an Frano laoo;
V.'. W.'. GEORGE JOHNSON,. ..... ....
••. . GB.A.ND CHAPLAIN, .• • San Francisco;
OH,
V.·. R.·. EDWARD BENTLEY OHUR
..... Wooaland;
w. ·. FRANCIS ELLSWORTH BAKER,. . ..GRAND 0B4TOB,
•. . San Franl'l.1110;
BBB,
LBoTU
D
. GB.A.N
W.·. WILLIAM HARVEY EDWARDS, . .
Porterllille;
...
uu,
Mus
G1wm
.
W.·. JACOB FRANKLIN BOLLER,.....
pton ·;
,.C'om
Buasa
&r.ui'D
GR.
.
•.•
•
•..••.
.••.
W.•. OMR I BULLIS, •• •••
rlOtl;
.d.nde
•
a,
Buu
w... JAMES FRANKLIN BEDFORD, .••. GK. SWORD
iaco;
Frano
San
•
.
B,
BBARB
GB. BIBLE
W.·. WILLIAM SCHUYLER MOSES, •.•.
le1;
..!ng11
Loi
.
•.
N,
Duoo
Ga.
SEN.
..
...
W.·. SAMUEL PRAGER, .... . ......
••. .tUN. Ga. Duoo N, •.• Oam brfa;
W.•. ALEXANDER PATERSON, •••••.
. GB. STllWARD,..Mendocino;
W.·. THOMAS JEFFERSON RIQHARDS,.SEN
Ga. STBwABD, .. San Franc isco;
.Jmr.
W.·. GRANVILLE QUINOY STEWART,
D PURSUIVANT,.J'remo;
GB.A.N
...
ETT,
W.·. CHARLES WILLIAM BARR
ORGANIST,••. . San Francilloo;
GBAND
....
......
ER,
MA.Y
W.·. SAMUEL DAVID
. GRAND TYLBR, .•.. • .San Franci8oo.
W.'. JAMES OGLESBY, ...... ...... ....

R.:.

G R A N D LO D G E
OF

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS ·
OF THE

ST AT E OF CA LIF OR NIA .
FOR I'Y- SEV ENT H ANN UAL COM

MU NIC ATI ON.

and Accepted M
The Mos t Wor ship ful Grand Lodg e of Free
nth Annu al ;:~~
-seve
Forty
its
d
of t~e S~ate of California commence
·
F
San
of
Citv
the
in
ple
Tem
nic
Maso
rano1soo, on
mun1oation at theee
"
.
th"rt
A. M.
th
ck,
o'clo
da
10
Tues
nth day of October, A. L. 5896, at
y, e l

[Oct. 13,

Procudings of the

566

Upon calling the roll of members there were found present the
following-

GRAND OFFICERS :

w:· EDWARD MYRBS PRBSTON, .... .... . ... Grand M1111ter;
" B ·• • W: ·· WILLIAM: THOHAS Li:oAB, • • • • • • • . ••• Deputy Grand Master;
.. B.: ,V..". Tnmus FLINT, JR.,.. .. .... . ........ Senior Grand Warden;
.. B.: w:. FBUllt MA.BIOi!' ANGELLOTTI,. .. . ... • Junior Grand
Warden;

The M.

... v.:
..;: w.:
w::

.. w.·:

•

EDWARD 00LEIU1',. ........... . ..... • Grand Treaaurw;
GEORGE JOHNSON,. ................ ••• Grand Secretary;
ANDREW JA.CKSON HABE, . .......... A ..irtant Grand Stcreta.ry;

w.·. WILLIAM EBSK!Nll: BLOAI!', .. . ......... Grand !Acturer;
w.· EDWARD BWJFr WEirr , .. ............ • (}rand Marshal;

w:.:

HOWELL AUBOBY POWELL, ... ........ Grand Standard Bearer;

w.·. HENRY CAI.COT K BYs,.. ..... .. • .. • • • Grand Sword Bearer;
• •

W • JEROME BoNAPARTE R10HARD80!l,..

w
·:
w::
w..:

• G1·and Bi'l.>Ze Bea1 er,
WILLIA)( Mol!'ROE PETBIR,. .• , ....... Senior (}rand Deacon;

RALPH I.OWE, .. ..... . .... ... ....... • •Tunior Grand Deacori;

JAllES FBKDERIOK DBAKE,. .. . . . . . . .. Jun\or Ora~ Steward;
1·
W.•. JoSRPH. BAILEY COOKB, •• • • • • •• •" ' ' (}rand Pumn1lant
w:. SAMUEL DA.VD> MAYBB,.. .... ... . ..... Grand Organisl;
J.ui:EB OGLESJIY, ....... ... .... . .. ••• Grand Tyler.

w..:

PAST GRAND OFFIOEBS:

•
c-u~TJS •• •• . •••• • Past Grand Master;
w • N ATHA.NI KL l.BKENR

The M .

.. ·M_: w=: WJLLlAJll ABRAHAM DA.VIES,. ..... ... Part (}rand Master;

· • w.
• • SAlllOBL CB.lWFOBD DEl'ISON,.
.. )l•
.. . .... • Past Grand Master·•
" ,; : W·: OLAY WEBSTER TAYLOB, ••••• • ••••. • • Past (}rand Ma8tm·:
..,. . . . •
.. M· w · WILEY JAlllER TINNIN,. .. .. . ..... . .. Past (}rand Mn.ater,·
w'.' Hm.ui: NEWTON Rumam, .. ........... Past Grand Malttr;

M..:
.. M·: w.:

.. _,,,_,..;:• w·:..

WrLLIAJ11JODNSTON, . .. . . .. ........... Past'GrC111dMa1ter ;

JA.MEB B .l.ONTY STEVBNS, ...... ... .... Past Grand Master;
-• JI ut Grand Master;
R • w:· JOHN QoI!lOY ADAJllS, .. ... .... .. .... p a...
ep Y
·• •·
•
·
Past &nior !}rand Warden;
R.·.
Lours COHN, .. .. • • .. . ... • .. . · .. ... ..
•
(}rand Warden·
Junior
'
R ••· w:·· • CHABLKS EDWARD MITOBELL, •• • • •• •-Past
_,
Juni.or
Grand
Warden;
R· W· JACOB HART NBPF,..... ... .. . ....... Pao•
den
HvNRY HAY KNAPP,. ............... • Past Junior (}rand War
;
v.·. w.·. NATHA?I WESTON SPAULDING, .. .. ... Pn~I Grand 7ireaBUrer·'

w.-.

.. R.·: w·:
..

'

•

•

p

And the representatives of two hundred and twen~y-one c~e.rtered
Lodges with ·delegates from the two Lodges under dispensation, and
a large ~umber of Past Masters entitled to seats.
The Grand Master filled the vacant places, by the appointment,
pro tempore, of-

.

Bro WILLIAJll FR.Al'IK PIEBOllL.... . • •• • as ....• . . .• Grand Chaplain;
•
.. ORRIN STAPLES HENDERSON • •••• • • • • as. ....... . (}rand Orator; and d
.. Junis H~ut: M c G I LL,. ....... . .... aR ....... .. Senior Grand Slewar ·

There being a sufficient representation, the Grand Lodge was
opened in ~mple .jonn, with music by the choir and prayer by the
Grand Chaplain.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Ool,ifamia.

567

The Grand Master then delivered his Annual AddreBB to the Grand
Lodge, as follows :BRETHREN OJI' THE GR.AND LoDGE : -

I extend to you a fraternal greeting and congratnlat.e you on the auspicious
opening of this, our forty-seventh Annual Communication.
Our relatiollS with neighboring and foreign jurisdictiollB are of the most
cordial and friendly nature. Our returns show, for the present year, a net
increll.lle of over seven hundred in,the membership of the subordinate Lodges.
Our financial condition, notwithstanding our large expenditures, is better
than it was at the time of our last Annual Communication. Three new
Lodges have received charters, two others have been orge.nired and have
received diapensatiollB, and no Lodge hll.8 been called upon to surrender its
charter. The financial condition of the subordinate Lodges is, as a general
rule, favorable, although some are suffering from causes incident to the commercial and industrial depression which is now so generally prevalent. It is
gratifying to see, among those who are ll.llsembled here to-day, so many whose
faces have become familiar because of their frequent attendance upon our
Annual Communications; many of whom have grown gray in the service of
our Order - some -0f whom have pa.seed their vigor and are now venerable in
years. We offer up thanks to the Source of all our blessings that so many of
our vet.eran workers have been spa.red to honor us with their presence and to
a.id us with their wise and conservative counsel. So far 11.8 we are informed,
during the past year the grim reaper, Death, hll.8 not invaded the ranks of the
present or the past elective officers of this Grand Lodge. While we have thus
been spa.red u.ny such a:ffiicting dispensation, it is meet and proper that we
should bow in reverence wiPt our s~ter jurisdictions who have been called
upon during the pa.st year to mourn over the bier of those who have been
translated from the Grand Lodge on earth to the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge on High. ·
.
e therefore pause in our deliberations to offer a. fraternal tribute to the
memory of the deceased of the following Grand Lodges, to-wit:
To the la.mtsQ.tedAsA H . Bart1N, Pa.st Grand Master of Ohio.
Dr. JOSEPH M. ANDERSON, Pa.st Grand Master of Tennessee.
EDw ARD B. Rowv., Pa.st Grand Master of Connecticut.
OwEN A. BABsxrr, Pll.llt Grand Mastiir of Kansas.
GEORGE E. DoWLJNO, Past Grand Master of Michigan.
MICHAEL 8HOE111AKKR, Pa.st Grand Master of Michigan.
ALBERT J. RussELL, Pa.st Grand MMter of Florida..
JOHN C. HESLETT; Grand Ma.eter of N eva.da..
Ex-Governor JoHN E. JoNll:B, Pll.llt Grand Master of Nevada; and
RICHARD Owx~ H1cx:MAli (formerly of Quitman Lodge, No. 88, under
this jurisdiction), Past Grand Master of Montana.
We have again assembled for the purpose of reviewing our official work dur·
ing the p~t year, of enact ing such la.we as we may deem for the best intert>sts
of the Craft, aud·of inducting into office those who areto be entrusted with the

' vv

568

[Oct. 131

management of affairs appertaining to Freemasonry throughout this Jurisdiction for the succeeding Ma.sonic yea.r.
In our review of the past, while we strive to remain loyal to the spirit and
intent of the law, yet, .nevertheless, let sentiments of charity preTa~, and,
ren.lrzing that we all are hnman, and liable to err, let us nek for the 1110\1~ and
intent in passing upon the official acts of our brethren, rather than adhere to
the mere letter of the law without considering the environment of thoee whose
acts we may be ca:lled upon to review.
In the enactment of new laws there is often a tendency to adopt; new
regulations without sufficient time to ucert&in whether they conflict wi~
those already elltablished, as will appear in matters hereafter referred to in
this Addreu. · The result of such legialation is to confuse the Craft and add
to the respoDBibiliti111 and perplexities of the Grand Master in explaining the
e:icact pr0vision of the law. Our purpoee will, as a general. rul~, be better
sobeerved by hatmoninng and expunging, rather than by mnlt1plymg the laW'B.
And, my brethren, in the final business of this Commtr.nicatioo-the eleo·
tion and installation of officers for the aucceeding Masonic year-let us emulate the beneficent teachingti of our ritual by demonstl'ating that " we are
brethren anwng whom no contention should exist, except that noble oonten·
tion, or rather emulation, a.sto who can best work and beat agree."
In reviewing the anneal addreasee of my illustrious pred--:M, I find,
quite genetatly, accounts of prevailing tendencies on the pan ol subor~iliate
Lodges and their officers which add needless labor to the neceBMry d11tiel .oi.
the Grand Master without resulting in any oorretponding good ilO the Craft.
My experience in this pattianlat line has not been unlike that of those who
have preceded. me, and I am led to remark :
Pirst-That the number of letters and inquiries addreBBed to the Grand
Master has far exceeded my most liberal expectatie1n11. It has often happened.
that more time has been required for researc~ mature deliberation and repliell
to those letters than I could reasonably spare from th~ neceBBary requirement.
of other responsibilities.
Second-That a large majority of the questions submitted for official rulings
related to matters that are clearly defined and regulated by direct provielons
of the Constitution, or by official decisions of this Grand Lodge.
Third-That there is too great a tendency among some of our brethren to
strive to evade the mandates of the Constitution, when such manda.tee con·
flict with the special purposes which they wish to accomplish. Frequent instances have occurred during the year in which I have been requested to issue
a speci.I dispensation to permit a Lodge to ignore some s~ction of .the ?onstitution-particula.rly such sections as relate to the physical qualifications of
ca11didatea for the degrees.
. In my official correepondeuce it has been my invariable purpose to reply to
every inquiry received. and, so far as time would permit, to make such c~m·
prehensive research and such full replies as would clearly set forth the require·
ments of the law in each particular case submitted.
In reply to requests for special dispensations to suspend the operation

1896.J

Grand Lod{/e of Oal'iforuia.

569

of aome proV1810D of the Constitution for th~ edification of some particalar
Lodge, or for the reception of some disqualified applicant for the degr-.
I lit.ave reminded the brethren that neither this Grand Lodge, the Grawl
Master, nor any subordinate officer of this body has any right to issue a di.speu·
sation, or make any decision, ruling or order which will purport to suspend,
modify or ignore any mandate of the Constitution, except in the rare instances
which a.re enumerated in the body of the Constitution, stating s,pecifically wh"
special dispensations may be issued by the Grand Master.
Some of our brethren seem to incline to the opinion, with no little degree
of plausibility, that the Grand Master is unnecessarily technical in alway•
adhering to the strict text of the law in his ruling. They seem to forget that
it is hill duty to proclaim, and not to modify the law. If any particular la.w
is objectionable, or is unnecessarily severe, it should be repealed; but until so
repealed by •he Grand Lodge, should be adhered to. It is true that the Grand
Lodge, while in session and conBi.dering questions submittW for its decisioA, i1
often charitable in placing a liberal construction on technica.litiee in cases
where the pl'Qvisions of the law have been manifaetly, but inadvertently, disregarded by some subordinate Lodge, or by some officer thereof; but sueh rul·
inge are acts of clemency on the part of the entire Ma.sonic body, collectively, and cannot be construed into a precedent whereby the Grand Mastier,
in hie individual capacity, should exercise such authority.
D.BCISIONB.

The following is a brief summary of such rulings as I have to submit for
your con•ideration :
Any person, eligible to receive the degrees of Maaonry, may present hi1
petition for the degrees to a Lodge other than that Lodge in whose jnriadictioo he resides, by complying with the provisions of Sec. 2, Art. III, Part III
of the Constitution, and upon receiving the consent of a majority oi the
members present at the time that hie request is voted upon.
My purpose in reaffinning this decision is to correct a mieappreheoaion
whi~h seems to be very general among our brethren. They have manifeatly
overlooked the fact tha.t the amendment to Sec. 2, Art. ill, Part III of the
Constitution, which was adopted in 1892, nullifies the decision referred to in
Section 605 of Anderson's Manual relative to waiver of jurisdiction over ap·
plicant~ for the degrees.
An applicant for the degrees in Masonry, who is otherwise wort.by and well
qualified, is not ineligible because of a suspicion of African taint in his blood.
There is no requirement in, Masonic law nor in Ma.sonic tradition for refusing
to receive the petition of a worthy applicant, or for refusing admiuion to a
Masonic Lodge of a Mason of recognized good standing, merely because oi any
particular color of his skin.
Lodge funds cannot be used either to purchase jewels for retiring officers or
to purchase portraits of such officers to ornament the walls of a Lodge-room.
A retiring Master has no right to demand or receive from the funds of hie
Lodge any sum whatever in return for hie services a11 installing officer of hie
eucceBBor in office.

Proceedings of tlie

570

'

[Oct. 13,

A Lodge cannot lawfully expend a.ny portion of its funds to pay for the
experting of the books of a. private corporation, _even a.ltho~gh su.ch corpora·
tion owns the cemetery in which the Lodge ·buries the bodies of its deceased
members.
. Neither a. Masonic Lodge nor a. Ma.sonic Boa.rd of Relief ca.n lawfully
donate twenty dollars, nor any other sum, to the Salvation Army for charitable distribution.
For a. Lodge
pa.sa a. resolution remitting the dues of all i~ members for
one year, or for any other stated period, or .to adopt a. resolution or genera.I
regulation whereby it appropriates a. stated sum for funeral expenses for ea?h
a.nd every member that dies, is a. misappropriation of its funds. The remission of dues and funeral benefits a.re charities which should be bestowed on
the needy and destitute only.
·
A Lodge must not negotiate a. loan of its funds on a. note and m~rtgage .on
the residence premises of the widow of a. deceased Ma.eon. Mason1c cha.nty
should be direct, and should never be so conditioned as to endanger the for_feiture of the hom1 stead of its beneficiaries.
·
A Ma.sonic Boa.rd of Relief is not required to extend its work of charity
beyond the jurisdiction of those Lodges of which it is composed.
The Master of a. Lodge has no authority or Masonic right to order the Sec·
reta.ry of his Lodge to make changes in the minutes of a. meeting, after the
ea.me have been approved, until he is duly authorized to ma.ke such a. change
by a vote of the Lodge at a. regula.r meeting.
Ma.sonic emblems mnst not be printed upon a. ba.11 ticket.
No Ma.son can be placed on trial in his Lodge for alleged offenses against
regulations of the Order of the Ea.stem Star, or for offenses committed during
secret session of, and relating to the a.ffa.irs of that Order only.
In the construction of a. Masonic Temple, or Ha.11, the Lodge-room should
not be built upon the ground floor.
•
.
It is contrary to Ma.sonic teachings and Ma.sonic usage to serve beer, wme,
or a.ny other intoxica.ut a.ta. Ma.sonic ba.uquet given in a. Ma.sonic ha.II.
The members of a. Lodge who assemble for the sole purpose of a.tten&g
religious services a.re not permitted to wear their regalia. on para.de or a.t church.
The non-observance of the first day of the week, either as a. day of rest or
for the performance of religious devotion, does not constitute a. Masoµic
reason for the rejection of an a.pplica.nt for the degrees of Masonry. Masonry
regards neither sect nor creed in its religious requirements.
·
The widow of a deceased Master Ma.son who was in good standing a.t the
time of his death but whose Lodge ha.s subsequently surrendered its charter,
becomes a. charg~, if needy, upon the charities of "the Lodge within whose
jurisdiction she resides.
.
Separate dispensations must be issued, and s\jpa.rate fees pa.id, for ea.ch
a.pplica.tion to reballot on rejected candidates for the degrees, e~en though
two or more dispensations are a.eked for by a.ny one Lodge a.t one time •.
The a.ct of cremating the body.of a. deceased Ma.son does not constitute_a.
Ma.sonic burial. The performances of the cermonies of our ritual for burial
would not be appropriate on such a.u occasion.

1896.J

Grand' Lodge of Oalifornia.

571

In the case of Brother CHARLES BERNARD BuRLBY, who, because of alleged
illness and inability to secure employment, appeals from the decree of suspension by Sisson Lodge, No. 310, fot'non-pa.yment of dues, I held that, inasmuch
as the Lodge alleges that it ha.d received no notice of inability to pa.y, a.ccom·
pa.nied by a. request for further time, the decree must remain in force until
the dues are pa.id or remitted.

to

OTHER OFFICIAL ACTS.

(

Unsettled claims for expenses incurred in the burial of two deceased
members of Lodges of two neighboring jurisdictions have been referred to me
for adjustment.
One of these was presented by the Ma.sonic Bo&rd of Relief of Los Angeles
against a subordinate of the Grand Lodge of the State of Georgia., and the
other wa.s submitted by Magnolia Lodge, No. 242, of Santa. Ba.rba.ra., age.inst
a. subordinate of the Grand Lodge of the fSta.te of Missouri.
I addressed letters to the Grand Master of each of those Grand Jurisdictions, describing the nature and a.mount of the clailllB, and requesting his
co-operation in effecting a. settlement. I a.m pleased to announce that in due
time I received courteous replies from ea.oh, assuring me that prompt a.nd
equitable settlements would be ma.de. Since that date, the claim of the
. Boa.rd of Relief of Los Angeles has been pa.id in full, and a. partial payment
ha.s been ma.de in liquidation of the claim of Magnolia Lodge, No. 242.
Complaint having been ma.de by disinterested and reliable parties, cha.rg·
ing the officers and members of Ionic Lodge, No. 121, with irregular and
un:rna.sonic practices in the manner of conducting their annual election, in
the manner of inspecting and reporting on the books a.ud accounts of the
officers of the Lodge, ·and in the conduct and practices of several of its members, I notified the Inspector of the district of the accusations a.nd requested
of him an official investigation of the same. In his report to me the Inspector
stated that he believed that there wa.s enough foundation for the several
complaints to demand further inquiry into the matter. I then addressed a.
letter to the Ma.ster of the Lodge, informing.him of the several accusations and
requesting specific answers to ea.ch a.nd every allegation. His reply was full
a.ud specific. He admitted the oha.rge of irregularities a.t the annual election,
but showed that the matter ha.d been remedied by securing a. dispensation for
a. new election.
The manner of inspecting the books appeared to be in due form, a.s the
report of the Committee on Fina.nee was presented for my inspection. The
complaint, however, alleges, with some degree of probability, that the report
is inferentially mislea.din,11.
No attempt was ma.de to concea.l or 1excuse the alleged misconduct of
various members oI the Lodge.
In consideration of the frank a.vowa.ls received, I addressed another letter
to the Master of the Lodge, eta.ting that, for the present, I would withhold
official action ; that the Grand Lodge would require tha.t he should use all
reasonable influence with his members to prevent a. renewal of the objection-

572

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 13,

would be
able practices, a.nd that the further consideration of the questions
,
referred to the wise discretion of my succeBBor in office.
to
transfer
to
me
d
requeste
havjng
216,
No.
Lodge,
Doric
The Master of
unmasonic
another Lodge the trial of one of its members who was accused of
his Lodge,
conduct, for the n-ason of general bias on the part of members of
ia Lodge,
Californ
of
Master
the
directing
I issued an order. on November 18th,
trial at as
the
conduct
a.nd
ion
commiss
a
elect
Lodge,
his
convene
to
1,
No.
early a date a.a he found pracµcable.
d
In November, a complaint was presente d to me, in due form, as prescribe
W.
WILIJAM
Bro.
charging
tion,
Constitu
the
of
in Sec. 1, .Art. II, P11.rt VI
I
R. REEVES, Master of Suisun Lodge, No. 55, with nnmasonic conduct.
directing
Bioners,
CommiB
qualified
duly
seven
to
ions
thereupo n issued commiss
November,
them to assemble at the hall of .Suwn Lodge on the 29th day of
s of
provision
the
with
ce
accordan
in
accused
the
of
trial
the
and proceed with
ion was
the Constitu tion. The trial was duly held. The verdict of the CommiBB
. .
the suspension of the accused from all the rights and privileges of Masonry
y,
The records of these trials are on file in the office of the Grand Secretar
ee.
committ
proper
tht>
to
referred
dnly
and will be
t
On March 9th I suspended Bro. EDSON *A HORNBECK, Master of Southwes
until
Master
as
duties
his
of
e
discharg
and
exercise
the
from
283,
No.
Lodge,
the next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge.
VII,
The offense committed by him was a violation of Art. II, Part
member
a
ng
permitti
ly
knowing
in
tion,
Topic "Suspen sion," of the Constitu
Lodge dur·
who was under suapension for non-pay ment of dues to sit in open
charitab le
a
pleaded
K
HORNBEC
Bro.
ing the conferring of the Third DeJ!ree.
as a
interpre tation of the law in extenuat ion of his offense. It is stated,
the
of
friend
personal
a
was
brother
ed
suspend
further explanation, that the
e&
candidate and that he had walked twelve miles to witness the ceremooi
Lodge a
On June 29th I received from the offia11rs and members of said
been suffipetition, setting forth the belief of the petitione rs that the law had
through
ciently vindicat ed, that the Master of their Lodge had erred more
for his
charitab le impulses than from any desire to violate the law, and asking
granted.
was
rs
petitione
·t!M!
of
request
restoration to office. The
FRENCH Lol>GE, Los ANGELES.
from
On the 28th day of October, 1895, a communication was received
stating
District,
Masonic
ifth
Thirty-f
the
of
r
JAMES A FOSHAY, Inspecto
delivered
that the charter of Valle de Prance Lodge, of Los Angeles, had been
mailed
been
had
same
the
that
and
thereof,
Master
,
to him by Bro. J. RA.NGAN
que of
to GEORGE FONTAINE, Grand Secretar y of the Grand Lodl{e Symboli
Body to
France. Having by this act severet all connection with the Grand
a wish ~.o
which they had heretofore held obedience, and having expressed
issued an
form a Lodge under our obedience, I, on the 27th day of May last,
Angelea Lodge, No. 42, to
~~.tiz!tipp. to Bro. SIMON C~H.EN, Master of Loa
• Itallcteed capital letter• on tbl1 page, and eleewbere , are aeBUJDed
name beloqga.-Qr. &c.

tnltlal1 to whtdl no

1896.)

Grand Lodgt of Oal!if<Yrnia.

573

heal such of the brethren who were. known to have received the degre
to
properly constitu ted Lodge. Thus the matter stands ; no petition
new Lodge has yet been presented.

•

;:i: :

MISCELLANEOUS.

r for
On March 12th I ordered a warrant drawn upon the Grand T~ure
Past
lamented
our
of
r
daughte
the
of
relief
the
for
dollars
fifty
of
the sum
that
that
effect
the
to
me
reached
having
Grand Master TITUs, informati-0n
the
procure
to
means
without
entirely
were
children
~oung
her
a~~
lady
necessities of life.
on the
On May 20th I instructe d the Grand Secretar y to draw a warrant
appropri
re
heretofo
funds
the
against
$2,000
Grand Treas.urer for the sum of
ated to and m fa.vor of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home,
Master
On January 24th I appointed Bro. WILIJAM FRA.NK PIERCE, Past
' H
of Oakland Lodge, No, 188, a Trustee of the Widows ' and Orphans
ome,
"BE
vice ro. DWA.RD COLEMAN, resigned.
BLAI
On November 18, 1895, I received from Bro. JOHN WILBON CHAHBE
N,
Oh'
of
Lodge
Grand
the
near
Lodge
Grand
this
of
Represe ntative
io, a compre.
d · t
h ·
CommnAnnual
last
the
~ns1~e an ins ructive report of the proceedings of
decis~ication of the Grand Lodge of Ohio, giving a resume of the rulings and
pays the
ions r~ndered, one of which is that the Grand Lodge allows and
traveling expenses of the Inspectors of the several Masonic District
i.Fraterna l greetings in the form of printed circulars and written :ommun
Hungary
of
Lodge
Grand
c
Symboli
the
by
us
to
extended
been
have
cations
and by the M. '. W.-. Dr. CBRISTIAN DAM, Grand Master of Peru.
G d
The Grand Lodge of England announces that it has extended to th e ran
on.
recogniti
official
its
Zealand
New
Lodge of
of Ji'id«l• An application was received from Bro. ROBERT DAY, Past Master
to establish
ity Lod~e, No. 120, bnt now a resident of Parie, for a dispensation
'
in the city of Paris, in France • The appIicat ion
an English
. speaking Lodge
f
1
th
of
violation
a
be
would
d
it
grant
was emed for the· reason that to
e aw o
· · ·di
Lodge.
exc1nmve Juns ct1on, .which is so strenuou sly enforced by this Grand
SPECIAL DmPENSATIONB.
The various special dispenaatioru which I have issued during the year are
. classified as follows :
t
Nine to elect officers ; five to fill vacancies in office '• sixteen to reballo on
.
d
f .
titi
sidentanon-re
of
petition
a
on
act
to
one
and
pe ~ns o reJecte candidates,
in the report of the Grand Secretary.
& detailed account of which will appear
LoDGES CONSTITUTED,
Annual
The t~re~ new Lodges to which charters were issued at the la.at
as fol·
me,
by
d
appointe
deputies
by
ted
constitu
duly
were
t1on
Commumca
1OW8:
c. E.
On October 26th, Whitti.er Lodge, No. 323, was constitu ted by Bro.
Bro.
by
ed
constitut
was
3'24,
No.
Cbrona,
MITCHELL, P. M.; on October 24th,

574

Proceedings of the

(Oct. 13,

H. S. ORME, Past Grand Master; and on October 28th, Consuelo, No. 325,
was constituted by Bro. W. J. MossHOLDER, P. M.
NEW LODGES . .
Dispell!l&tions have been issued for the organization of two new Lodges, as
follows: To Needles Lodge, U. D., at Needles, May 28th, and to Long Beach
Lodge, U. D., at Long Beach, June 29.t h.
REPRESENTATIVES.
Representatives of other Grand Lodges, near the Grand Lodge of Califor·
nia, have been appointed and duly commissioned, as follows :
Bro. JAMES B. STEVENS, P. G. M., Canada, May 11th; Bro. THOS. H.
CASWELL, P. M., Vermont, May 20th ; Bro. HENRY S. ORME, P. G. M., lndi·
ana, July 2d; Bro. THOMAS G. LAMBERT, P. M., South Dakota, Aug. 10th;
and Bro. NILES SEARLS, P. G. 0., Manitoba, May 13th, 1896.
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS.
A large number of amendments to By-Laws have been submitted for my
approval, as will appear in a classified form in the report of the Grand Beere·
tary. These amendments were mainly for the reduction of the fees for the
degrees, and a reduction of the amount of annual dues of the members of the
Lodges. In all cases in which Lodges have proposed to rednce the amount
of the dues, I have required of the Secretary a full statement of the financial
condition of his Lodge. Where the resources of the Lodge justified such a
reduction, I have approved of the same ; but I have refused approval in a
number of instances, for the reason that the reduction proposed would leave
little or nothing for charity after the current expenses of the Lodge were
paid.
AMENDMENTS TO Co1iSTITUTION.
I recommend that the Constitution be amended as follows:
First-The striking out from Subdivision 10 of Section 1, Article IV, Part
II, the·words, " once in every two months ;" and
Second-The repeal of all of Subdivision 4 of Section 2, Article V, Part
IV, relating to the bi-monthly circular from the office of the Grand Secretary,
for the reasons :
.First-That in 1891 the Grand Lodge ordered a discontinuance of the pub·
lication of suspensions for non-payment of dues. Under that ruling, the
Grand Secretary seldom has anything to publish.
Second-It is impossible for the Secretaries of the subordinate Lodl(es to keep
a complete black-book, for the manifest reason that, as the law now stands,
they can know nothing of the suspensions for non-payment of dues, except of
their own Lodges.
MASONIC DISTRICTS AND INSPECTORS.
On February 1st, at the. suggestion and on the recommendation of the
Grand Lecturer, the Thirty-second Masonic District was subdivided, leaving

1896.]

Grand Lod{Je of Oalifornia.

575

seven of the Lodges in the Thirty-second, and organizing the remaining six
Lodges into a new district, to be hereafter designated as the Thirty-third
Masonic District, thereby increasing the number of districts in this jurisdic·
tion to forty.
On the same date, assisted by the valued suggestions of our Grand Lee·
turer, I appointed Inspectors for the several Masonic Districts for the curre~t
year, and authorized the necessary certificates of appointment to be issued
from the office of the Grand Secretary.
REPORT OF INSPECTORS.
Unfortnnately, I am unable to giveageneralreview of the condition of the
subordinate Lodges, for the reason that less than one-half of the Inspectors
have sent reports to my office. Some were prompt in sending reports and ex·
plicit in stating the principal facts relative to the condition of the several
Lodges in their respective districts. Other reports were received at so late a
date as to render any gelieral review and classification impracticable.
THE RITuAL.
Having received notice from the Grand Secretary that the supply of copies
of the printed monitorial work was nearly exhausted, I directed him, when
he ordered a new edition printed, to insert, in the proper place, a full explana·
tion of the hieroglyphical emblems which are referred to in the unwritten
work of the Third Degree.
To those who are familiar· with the unwritten monitorial work as adopted
and promulgated by the Grand Lodge, it is evident that the work, as exem~lified b~ many of the Lodges at the present day, contains numerous expressions which are at variance with the original authorized text. Some of these
variations have been adopted inadvertently, others intentionally.
Zeal on the part of teachers of our ritual is commendable, but a misdirected zeal which. leads an official to assume that, upon his own dictum, he
has a right to amend or modify the phraseology which has been adopted and
promulgated by the Grand Lodge, cannot be condemned in too strong Ian·
guage.
•
If we are to maintain a uniform work in the degrees it seems appropriate
and essential that a permanent committee, or tribunal, should be created
whose members shall be the custodians and censors of the text of the un·
written work.
I therefore recommend that, at as early a date as may be practicable during
the present Communication, a committee be appointed from among those breth·
ren who are familiar with the authorized work and with the rulings of the Grand
Lodge relative thereto, whose duty it shall be to ascertain if the work as now
tau~ht is strictly the work as adopted by this Body. Also to make a careful
compilation or digest of the rulings and decisions of the Grand Lodge relative
to the adoption and promulgation of the unwritten work of our ri.tual, and
that the result of these investigations, together with recommendations as to
the best method of preserving and of teaching this portion of th~ ritual in its

576

Plf'OCe.edings of the

'

[Oct. 13,

at our next
purity, be embodied in a report to be presente d for consideration
A1111ualCommunioation.
I would
If in your wisdom, you decide that suoh a committe be appointe d,
Inepeo.
the
requiring
of
lity
advisabi
the
on
report
furth~r recommend that it
icatiOllB for
toni of the several Ma.sonic Districts to attend the Annual Common
ritual, th~t
the purpose of witnessing the exemplification of the ~nwritten
and va.ruithey may acquire uniformity of phraseology and eliminate errors
the same
allowed
be
should
they
purpose,
a.
such
for
ce
tions. If in attendan
.
.
.
mileage a.s is allowed to represen tatives of Lodges.
will
it
adopted,
be
ndations
recomme
and
ns
suggestio
Should the foregoing
g the
not be amiss for the committee to consider the advisabi lity of amendin
more
will
it
that
so
Degree,
Third
the
of
Section
Second
the
oeremonial of
~~ctions
nearly conform to the work as taught in many of the Grand J
18 now
east of the Rocky Mount.ains. In that Section of the Degree, a.s it
ce:t:ethe
between
tency
inoonsie
conferred in our Lodges, there is a. manifest
allegory on
the
of
s
tradition
the
a.nd
work,
our
of
ogy
phra.eeol
and
monia.l
"
•
"
"
which the scene is founded, that
SPECIAL COMMU.NICATIO.NS.

le
On November 28th, in compliance with a.n invitatio n from the Honorab
a.t
Lodge
Grand
the
convened
I
County,
Board of Superviaors of Santa Cruz
Santa. Cruz
Santa Cruz, and le.id the comer-st one of the new Courthouse of
County.
because
Our Grand Orator, Rev. Da. V OORSA.NGBR, being unable to attend
by
delivered
wa.s
oration
the
ents,
engagem
of the requirement.ii of other·
the
Brother H. V. MoREHousE of San Joae Lodge, No. 10. In the evening
Degree.
officers of Grand Lodge witnesse d the conferring of the Third
by a.
The work was done in a. very creditab le manner, and was followed
of.
Dru.KE_
F.
J.
Brother
teward,
Grand.S
Junior
1111Dlptuoua banquet. Our
miles
Redland s, in going and returnin g, traveled a distance of one thousand
to participa te in the ceremonies.
cereOn February 22d, I convened the Grand Lodge, and conducte d the
Angeles.
Loe
a.t
Temple
Ma.sonic
the
of
one
comer-st
monies of laying the
in attendAll of the elective and several of the appointe d Grand Officers were
the
throng?
escorted
wa.s
Lodge
Grand
the
ies
ceremon
the
to
ance. Previous
of Knights
principa l streets of the city by Oreur de Lum Commandery
ing
Templar , followed by several of the Lodges of Los Angel"'.8 and surround
banque~.
~
and
reception
a
with
towna. In·the evening, the festivities cloeed
Ma.some
A gratifyin g circuID8tance in connection with the erection of this
of the
_n
completio
the
for
needed
Te1!1ple is the fa.ct that all of the fonds
laid.
building were subscribed and available before the comer-stone wa.s
the Sloat
On the 9th of Joly, in compliance with a request received from
y for the
Monume nt Association, the Grand Lodge wa.s convened a.t Montere
to the
erected
be
to
nt
monume
a
of
one
purpoae of laying the comer-st
escorted to
memory ·of Commodore JOHN D. Sr.OAT, The Grand Lodge was
from the
the location of the monume nt by the band and a company of marines
No. 217.
United States warship "Monte rey," followed by Monterey Lodge,

Grand Lodr1e ef Oalifornia.

577

a. pa.t · t"
DuriJ;1g the ceremonies Grand Orator VOORSAN GER delivered
noic
".
ti
Ha.II a.
b
Ma.sonic
the
to
g
returnin
After
.
ora o~ euttmg the occasion
find
to
dispersed
r~cept~on ~a.s held. 1:he officers of the Grand Lodge then
fiftieth
the
orating
commem
on
celebrati
the
of
s
div~rsion m the e:ice_r~ise
the Pacific
a.nruversary of the raismg of the American Flag on the shores of
.
dir ·
B
convened
Master,
Grand
Deputy
LucAB,
T.
WM.
·.
ection, R. ". W.
Y my
the
d
conducte
and
the Grand Lodg~ a.t Guadalu pe on the 7th day of March,
is being
ceremony of la.ymg the comer-st one of the new schoolhouse which
.
construc ted at that place.
OFFICIAL VISITS.

imIn my official visits to various Lodges during the year, I have been
g the
pressed with the commendable uniformi ty of the work in conferrin
Lodges for
degrees, and_ have only words of a.pprova.l for the officers of the
of the
the zeal which they maillfest in perfectin g themselves in the work
our
of
members
the
among
s
amenitie
social
the
g
promotin
ritual, a.nd in
Fra.temi ty.
most
These occasions of ceremony and fra.temal visitatio n a.re among the
regret
pleasant expe~ences of my. o~c~a.l duties, and it is a. source of sincere
have necesto ~e that business responsibilities a.nd other oflicia.I obligations
the Lodges
sarily prevente d me from extendin g my visits more genera.lly to
througho ut the jurisdiction.
CHARITIE S.

o
On Ma.y 9th I received from the Ma.sonic Boa.rd of Relief of San Francisc
work
le
charitab
its
continue
to
Boa.rd
a. statemen t showing .that, to enable the
addition
to the end of the fiscal year would require the sum of $1500.00, in
with a.
nied
accompa
Fund,
Lodge
Grand
the
to the a.ppropria.tion from
the Boa.rd
request that I draw a. warrant on the Grand Treasure r in favor of
ee. In
for that a.mount. I referred this applicati on to the Finance Committ
o ma.de a.
compliance with my request the committee went to Sa.n Francisc
re;orted to
thorough investigation of the affairs a.ad needs of the Boa.rd, a.nd
me that they could not advise the issuance of the warrant .
the
I thereupo n notified the Boa.rd that I did not feel authoriz ed to grant
I recomrequest. The money wa.s subseque ntly borrowed by the Boa.rd.
Lodge to
mend that a.n appropri ation be ma.de from the funds of the Grand
members of
reimburse the Boa.rd for the money thus borrowed, and that the
the inthe Finance Commit tee be allowed their expenses incurred in ma.king
vestigati on.
of the
. The reports of the several Boards of Relief and of the Trustees
~idows' and Orphans' Home, showing the a.mount and nature of the charities
disbu~sed under your direction, will be duly submitte d for your consideration.
that the
The hbera.l a.mounts bestowed on these several charities indicate
and
analyzed
carefully
be
should
ment
disburse
their
iz:i
involved
s
question
that
proper
and
jllllt
is
It
ion.
that they a.re deservm g of mature deliberat
of our
you should carefully consider and determin e as to how large a. portion
classes
the
indicate
should
;
charities
funds should be donated to these several

2

578

Proceedings of tlie

[Oct.
' 13,

·
th
i ients of this bounty;
in a
of individuals who should becombe d e r:cdpto individuals . decideand,
whether
li .t (the sums to e onaoe
,
.
.
general way, mi .
d L.: 11
d to those of the beneficiane s w h o
regular mont hlY pensions shoul ""ha owe t ch pensions should be a11owed
rmanently disabled, and whet er or no su
are p~
h . "sdiction of other Grand Lodges.
.
to soJourners from t e JUn f th G
d Lodges along these lines may aid us
A review of the work o o er ra~
"d
ti f t
conclusions for our gu1 ance. From carefully
in~arriving at ~~re sa s ac doryf
th nnual reports of the several Grand
ed statistics gathers rom
e a
prepa.r
h t the United States, it appears that out of forty-fi ~e l. uris·
Lodges throug ou
.
riated no money from their treas·
dictions there were tw~ty-e1ght ~ha~p:~or charitable work. Only fifteen
uries to Boards of Rehef or Cha.nty
g Of these two gave less than $100
report appropriat ions for. these pii:es~ less than' $1000 ; four gave from
each ; six gave sums varymg from
000
h a.nd one $3500 while our own
$1000 to less than $2000 ; two gave $21 t eac 'tha.n one-third ~f the aggregate
$6400 a. sum equa o more
Grand Lodge ga.ve
-h G
d Lodges Several of the Grand Lodges
·
·
a.mount given by all the ot . er fra.n h rity a.How
no donations to Ma.sons wh o
that make these appropriati ons or cf a d
d require other applicants to
in
or nee, an
.
are more tha.n one year . a.rrearR
M
.
ideration a.nd their wortlnnus
rove both their just cla.im t.o asomc _cons
P
d t eceive such assistance.
before they are a11owe o r
d "d
·
.
G d Lodges ha.vs ec1 cd to establish and maintain homes for
.
Nmeteen ra.n
"ndi ents wlio ha.ve just claims upon Ma.some
the worthy and dependent 1 adg l "b ral donations during the year for the
1e
·
chan·ty . seventeen of these m fe
sue.
t d a.intena.nce o sueh h omes· Several ha.ve homes m
tif .
establishm en .a.n m is form of charitable work
ha.s given such gra y~g
cessful operation. Th
f the Grand Lodges tha.t have decided to ma.m.·
resUlts that a.11, except five o stablishme nt a.nd maintenan ce of these homes
ta.in such homes, _don~te to the e .
These facts pla.inly indicate tha.t there
a.11 of their contributio ns for chant~y ·f·
of the home as the most practical
.
.
·
entimen 1n avor
is a. ra.pully mcreasmg s .
.
M nic charity from the Grand Lodge
and satisfactor y form of dispensmg as11
treasury.
. Grand Lod e has donated over $110,000 to the
Since the year 1867, this
. g . diction for charitable work. The
several Boards of Relief thro~h~u~t~e t:a~e displayed commendable zeal to
members of the several Boarrtho f e ie becoming recipients of this charity.
ept the wo y, rom
prevent any, ex~
f the thanks of the recipients, but also of . the
They are deserving not only 0
·
.
d
.
f th Craft for the time an ca.re w hich they have given
.
commendations o
e 1 't' th y have encountere d in, this philanthro pic
to, and for the man! l'f'.rP. ex1 ies e hich a plicants are deserving a.nd which
work. To wisely d1scnmmate ~to wh
p ts donated and to be able to
· ti
portion t e amoun
•
are unwo~hy, to JUS y npa.ls of the needy
and suffering whose claims upon
resist the unportunat e appe
'b"l'ti'es
unnn the members of the
.
..-·
.
the Craft are quest iona ble, impose respons1 1· I te who
daily are brought mto
.
f
h"
h
ly
those
can
apprec1a
Boards of Rel ie w ic on
. d' 'd l whom misfortune has overwhelmed
with
those 1Il IVl ua S
persona1 relations
w
•
with vennry and distress.
1 b
hich those who are r egular
•
d ·d
nd perfect a. p an Y w
.
If we ca.n ec1 e upon a
'd
d
'th
a
permanent home for their
pensioners on our b ount y ma.y be prov1 e w1

1896.]

Grand Lod.ge of OaUforn'4:

579

economical ma.inte~ce, we will thereby remove from the several Boards of
Relief one of their most perplexing and expensive responsibilities, leaving
only cases of temporary emergency for their charitable considerati on.
Efforts to perfect such a plan on lines of economy, which indicate a reasonable probability of its early realization, must certainly commend themselves to
the favorable considerati on of all who are familiar with the necessary bur·
dens which are now imposed on the members of the several Boards of Relief,
a.s well as of a.ll others who a.re seeking for the most beneficial and economical methods of dispensing charity.
Such a. plan will find its. realization in the completion and endowmen t of
the Widows' a.nd Orphans' Home. The sum of $110,000, which has lieretOfore
been paid from the funds of this (irand Lodge for charity, would have endowed
such a. home with a. munificent hand. I do not question the wisdom nor the
beneficence of these donations in the past, but rather would urge upon you
to wisely consider and carefully determine as to how we shall provide for the
needy in the future.
·
This Grand Lodge is now possessed of a location for such a home. It is
free from debt. It ha.s a broad acreage, with enough tillable land for the
requiremen ts of the home. The climate is equable and healthful. The location of the administra tion building is sightly and commanding. It is of easy
access by rail. During the present year the Trustees have acquired a.n ample
water supply for domestic purposes. Pipes have been laid which conduct the
water to the premises. Roads have been built, the grounds ha.ve been graded,
a.nd the foundation s of the administra tion building are now in process of con·
struction. To-morrow the comer-ston e will be la.id by the Grand Lodge with
the usual formalities of the Craft. Tbs uncomplet ed structure will thenceforward stand as a. mute yet eloquent appeal to the charitable impulses of
every true Mason throughou t the jurisdictio n of California., until the last nail
is drfren in the structure, and until the hospitable doors of the home are
thrown open to offer a. gratefUl welcome to those who !I.re otherwise homeless
and a.re bereft of the comforts and necessities of life.
I present the foregoing propositions for your considerati on, with the confi.
dent hope a.nd expectation tha.t there may be no longer anv question as to the
wisdom and importance of urging this beneficent charity-th e Masonic
Widows' and Orphans' Home-to a speedy a.nd snccessfUl completion.
CONCLUSION.

In the foregoing statements and recommendations, I submit the official

acts of my administra tion to your impartial consideration. In the discharge
of my official duties it has been my purpose to be charitir.ble, imparti&l. a.nd
just ; to render such decisions and rulings as a.re consistent with the intent as
well as with the text of the law ; to advocate an adherence to the text of the
unwritten monitorial work a.s originally adopted and promUlgated by the
Grand Lodge, and to sanction only a consistent obedience to the requiremen ts
of the Constitutio n and Regulation s.
In retiring from office, at the close, of the proceedings of the present Communication , I shall do so with the consciousness of having exerted my best

580

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 13,

have rested upon me in
efforts to discharge the many responsibilities which
ate true friends hip
concili
to
as
and
al,
approv
such a manne r as to merit your
n.
brethre
the
among
I have ofteu availed
In my efforts to accomplish these desirable results,
efficient Grand Secremyself of the wise counsel and long experience of our
both officially and pertary, to whom I am indebte d for many valued favors,
sonally.
unity to express
It is approp riate that I should improv e the presen t opport
been so generously bemy high appreci ation of the many favors which have
ledge my obligastowed upon me by Bro. JOHNSO N, and that I should acknow
ation, their uniform
tions to my other associates in office for their kind co-oper
Communications
courtes y, and their regular attenda nce upon the Special
which have been held during the year.
the jurisdic tion I
In my official relation s with the brethre n throug hout
is due, not so
which
ration
conside
ful
have been favored with that respect
with which I
office
high
the
of
tives
preroga
the
to
as
ual,
individ
much to the
to assure you that my
have been honored by your suffrage. I am pleased
rs of our Fratern ity
membe
the
by
d
accepte
been
have
rulings
and
suggestions
to constit uted
loyalty
that
ifies
exempl
with a generous acquiescence which
sonry.
Freema
of
les
princip
ental
fundam
the
of
one
is
which
author ity
this loyalty to the
These generous manife station s of personal regard, and
have · greatly enhanc ed
ed,
entrust
briefly
been
have
I
which
with
ity
author
me by selecting me as
my apprec iation of the honor which you conferred on
under other and new
me
placed
have
and
tion,
jurisdic
this
of
Master
Grand
s which are as sacred
igation
tie-obl
mystic
the
obligations to my brether n of
They have given me a
altar.
the
at
d
assume
we
which
those
as
binding
and
princip les of Freehigher conception of the source from which the hidden
a more comprehensive
masonr y have been derived, and have afforded me
tive Temple has been
knowledge of the foundations upon which our specula
.
builded
day, or a year; it is
Masonic law is not an arbitra ry code, written in a
nce and observaexperie
an evolut ion-the outgrow th of centuri es of human
and aqua.red
hewn
then
d,
quarrie
first
was
it
ashlar,
tion. Like the perfect
the master workm an's
by the experiences of ages, until it has stood thi: test of
specula tive structu re
square, and has found its approp riate place in that
ies of operati ve
allegor
and
ns
which our forefathers built on the traditio
and perpetu ate
in
mainta
to
is
law
that
of
e
purpos
e
ultimat
Mason ry. The
the Fatherh ood
on
d
founde
a.re
those beneficent principles of Freema sonry which
beneficent and
e,
human
as
es
rincipl
Man-p
of
hoo<i.
Brother
of God and the
d ; principles
founde
is
ic
Republ
own
liberalizing as those upon which our
the Dark Ages,
of
Lodges
c
Ma.soni
the
in
n
ificatio
exempl
their
which, in
centuri es before this
were prophe tic of the dawn of human liberty for
hed.
establis
was
y
equalit
and
liberty
of
ic
Republ
other tempor al fraIn the varied congregations of human ity there is no
religious toleration, or
of
les
princip
liberal
more
on
d
founde
is
which
ternity
admonishes a truer
that teaches a more perfect equalit y before the law, that
ce for the- Creato r and
reveren
sincere
more
a
s
inspire
or
,
country
to
loyalty
His works.

1896.J

Gmnd Lorl.ge of Oalifornia.

581

various windin
Mason ry teaches man to "trace Nature throug h her
ver the ower gs .to
••disco
to
him
shes
admoni
s,"
her most concealed recesse
.;hwisse and vi;
~om and goodness of the Great Artificer of the Univer
w wi de.
" '
e.
ma.chin
vast
this
t
connec
which
ions
proport
the
hght
mounta in cha.in t
It ~na~les him, as he surveys the grand upheav al of the
handiw ork of s~h;
the
walls
massive
their
of
:~gruze lil ~he rugged carvings
he contem plates th
_vme Archite ct of the Universe. It prompt s him, as
e
primev al forest, to exclaim :
" Father, Thy hand
Hast reared these venerable columns. Thou
Didst weave this verdant roof. Thou didst look down
Upon the naked earth and forthwith rose
All these fair ranks of trees. They, in Thy sun
Budded; shook their green leaves in Thy breez~
And shot r.oward Heaven."
y which hestows
With equal reverence he discovers that creativ e alchem
the bow on the
pencils
green,
in
pe
landsca
the
the blush o~ the ros\l, ro~es
cloud, and tmts the mormn g sky with glory.
Creato r which is
By such met~ods Mason ry teaches a conception of the
are limited by creed and
more compre~ensive than that of those religions which
mere compulso 0 b di
dogma. It mculca tes a more reveren t devotio n than
ed by h ry e d.
impugn
be
cannot
which
God
ence to law, inspires a faith in
ereey, an
f
"t"
proclaim
thi: foundation of
is
which
man,
of
ght
birthri
the
. . s a r&eo~1 _ion o.
obli ations than ·
religiou s. and political liberty. It impoees on us greater
st ~obler att .
manife
to
us
teaches
and
altar,
the
at
assume
we
those which
rirds.
passwo
and
grips
mere
than
tion
hutes for honorah~e recogni
erize and
charact
,
actuate
to
e
continu
ever
these
as
tes
May such attribu
· · 1 f
beloved Fratern ity• that the benefice nt princip
es·o
adorn the members of our
.
t
Fr
hmnan race d
the
on
lustre
their
shed
to
e
contmu
may
nry
eemaso
o
own
the remote st period of earth's history .

EDWA RD MYERS PRESTON,
<hand Master.

ittee ~f five
Which was ordere d to be referre d to a specia l comm
'
en to
brethr
ing
follow
the
named
r
Maste
Grand
a~d the Deput y
conitteecomm
such
stitute

r James Wright Anderson

Ou the .Address of the Grana Master: . . ...... . ...

i

1 Thomas Benton Gray,

l

'
Stanley Andrew Smith.
Thomas Grafton Lamber&,
Frank Aver.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until two-fifteen
afterno on.

o'clock this

[Oct. 13,

Proceedings of the

582

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

583

JEAN MARIE DUPAS, Master;

j

Parfait£ Union, ... No. 11, . .

§!n ~ta11d ~odge.
A.FrBRNooN SESSION,

Tuesday, October 13th, .A. L. 5896.

}

MO'Untain Shade., .. No. 18, .. {FRANK RUMRILL WEHE, Ml\ster and Past Master;
STANLEY ANDREW SMITH, Past Master.
.San Joaquin, .... . • No. 19, . . j ADELBERT WILLIAM DAVWSON, Master;
1 WILLIAM ABRAHAM DAVIES, Past Master.
Waahington, •..... No. 20, .... EDWIN GLOVER, Past Master and Representative.
Hawaiian, .••.... . . No. 21,. . I ANDREW BROWN, Past Master;
.
l FRANKLIN HENBY DAY, Representative.
M ICRAELJOSEPH SAVAGE, Master and P. Master;
ROBERT HARMER CouNTRYMAN, Senior Warden:
0 idental
N 22
ERNEST CHAPPELL HONNER, Junior warden ;
cc
• . . . • . . . • o. • . . HENRY BURNER,

The Grand Lodge was called on at two-fifteen o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
Bro. ANDBEW JA.cxsoN HA.BB, from the Committee on Credentials,
reported the following officers and representatives of chartered
Lodges, delegates from Lodges unde'r dispensation, and Past Masters
by service within this Jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to
seats, viz. : from-

Madison,•.···· ... No. 23, . . .. FRANK AVER, Master and Past Master.
Maripoaa,. . ......• No. 24,. . . •FREDERICK WILLIAM SCHLAGETER, M. and P. 111.
Gemget,own, . ..• . •. No. 25, . . .• GllORGll! CHARLES RAU, Master and Past Master.
El Drrrado, ······ . . No. 26, .. . •RoBe:BT PAGAN PATTERSON, Senior Wardeo.

Trinity, . . .... ... • No. 27, ...• WILLIAlil HERESY LABAREe:, Senior Warden.

rP·~-~"'

1W1LLlill HENBY LILLIE, Maater;
THOMAS TBEBELL, Senior warden ;

J

THEODORE HALL MACDONALD,
Put Maatere.
WILLIAM SCHUYLER MOSES,
RUFUS W ADLBIGH THOMPSON,
Gol,d Hill .... . ... . No. 32, •... . WALTER JANSEN, Master and Past Master.

Tehama., .• . . . ..... . No. 3, .... WILLIAM ELIAS JOHN BAUGHMAN, Master.

Btnicia. ....• .•... •No. 5, . . .. FBEDEB.IOK PHILIP WEINMANN, Representative.
Tuolumne, . . ..... No. 8, . ... FRANK WILSON STREET, Past Master and Rep.
CIYrimthia.n, .. . ... No. 9, .... SoLOMAN Le:WEK, Master.

Ophir, .········ ·· .No. 33, •.. • . JOHN IhNBY HEARD, Master and Past Master.
San Diego, . ... . .. • No. 35, .. j WILLIAM LEVINGS PIEBCK, Master;
t EMANUEL J Louis, Senior Warden.
.
Saint John'1, ..... . No. 37, . . • GEORGE DEXTER BUTLER, Master and Past Master.

EBNES'I' WOODBURY CoNANT, Master and P. Master;

j

ALBERT Kam WHITTON, Junior Warden;
SAMUEL W AT!ION BORING, l Pa111; Masters.
RALPH Lowe:,
f
JAKES BAUNTY STEVENS, Past Master and Rep.;
Yount, . ..........• No. 12,. . GEORGE w ABBINGTON STBOV""
...., } p ast M asters.
HENRY HAY KNAPP,
WILLIAM EDMUND MES&BVEY, Senior Warden;
Nevada, ...• .. .. • . •No. 13,. · THOMAS BENTON GRAY•
aet Masters.
{
EDWARD MYERS PRESTON,

l

}p

EDWARD MORTIMER COTTRELL,}
GEORGE CAMERON FORSYTH
GEORGEJOHNHOBF,,
'

GoldenGate, .. ..... No. 30, ..

W'utem St,a;r, ••.•• No. 2, .•.. WILLIAH ALEXANDER BOSWELL, Junior Warden.

San Jose, • . ....... . No. lO,. .

Paet Mas~ers.

FRll:DERICK WM. GUSTAVE MOEBUB,

1

1
•
I

!

{ WILLIAM MIDDLETON FONDA,
GEORGE HENRY JXNKS,

( lhNRY ABOROFT, Master ;
WILLIAM G:RAHAH BROWN, Senior Warden;
ERNEST HERBERT HILLl:l, Junior warden ;
THOIU.S PllTER BARCLAY,
GEORGE CHILDS,
FRANKLIN H. DAY,
Califrmua, ...... . . No.
1,. · HERMANN FRANKLIN MULLER,
CHABLl£8 LEWIS PATTON,
EDWARD PEABODY,
EDWARD WILLIAM PEABODY,
WILLIAM THOMAS RKYNOLDS,
l.Ge:ORGE JOHNSON,

I

ARMAND XAVIER DlliCOURTIEUX, Senior Warden;
ANTOINK LEON, Junior Warden;
JUSTIN LADAGNOUB, Past Master.

Santa Cruz,•· ... · .No. 38,. ·

{

JOSEPH MATHIAS SPIIDDINO, Senior Warden.
HERBERT EVERY Cox, Juniur Warden;
'
EDWARD SWIFT WEST, Past Master.

JOHN NEWELL BLAIR, Senior Warden ·
WILLIAM DURRANT KNIGHTS, I
•
p OWELL SAMUEL
Past Masters
LAWSON,
•
WILLIAM MONROE PETRIE, Past Master and Rep.
Martinez, .... . ... . No. 41, .... WILLIAM 8EWALL WELLS, Master and Past Master.
.,___
N.
.,...,.amento, . . . . . . o. 40, . .

j

f

SIMON CAHEN, Master;
Los A ngefa, . . •. . .. No. 42, . . { SAMUEL'. PBAG&B, t Past Masters.
MAX WASSMAN, f

Eureka,. . .... .. . . . No. 16,.. j JONATHAN FULTON, Master;

1 JACOB HART NEFF, Past Master.

I

584

[Oct. 13,

Proceedings of the

JOSEPH LAMBERT CRITTENDEN, Master;
EDGAB CURTISS SUTLil!'l!'E, Senior Warden;
WILLIAM GoBHAM DOOLITTLE,}
THEODORE FROLICH,

Mount Moriah, ..• . No. 44, ..

Ttaas, .......... No. 46, . .

l

JOHN CHARLES JENS,
RoBERT WILSON MURPHY,
PETER BURCH NAG LEE,
DAVID MATHEWS RICHARDS,

Past Masters.
•

THOMAS FLINT, Master;
THOMAS FLINT, Jr., Past Master.

,\fi,chigan City, ... . No. 47, . • 5 GEORGE ALBERT DAVIES, Junior Warden;
I ALEXANDER DOLT, Past Master.

Grand Lodge of California.

1896.J

Quitman, ... ... . .. No. 88, . .

{

585

!

ALEXANDER RAUCH, Mas~er and Past Master;
M
JAMES REDINGTON p
ast 11&ters.
'
JAMES REID,

NIYf'thSf.ar, • .• ...•. No. 91, .... RoB&RT MITCHELL WALKER, Senior Warden.

Acaci.a, ...•...• . . . No. 92, •. .. FRANCIS NIOBOLLB, Master and Past Maeter.
St. Hekna, .... . ... No. 93, . ... JOHN HENRY STEVES, Master and Past Master.
Hen-ry Cl4y, .... ... No. 95, . . .. LOUIS KATZ, Senior Warden and Past Master.
HO'IDard .•• .•• ••... No. 96, . . 5 FREDERICK ALEX. AUTENBIETH, M. and P . M.;

I JAMES RoBll:BT TAPSCOTT, Past Master.

FO'l"hutown, ••...• . No. 50, ..•. WILLIAM JOHN SCHULTZ, Master.

JAMES SIMON, Senior Warden;
La <hange, ·· .. · · . No. 99, · · { HIRAM NEWTON RUCKER } p
ast Mastera.
'
CHARLEB SIMON,

IUinoi.Btown,. . .. . . No. 51, •... ROBERT MORRIS, Master.

Campo Se.tl(),. .... . No. 100, .. j ANTHONY ANDERSON, Master and Past Master;

Suisun, .......... . No. 55, .• I ALBERT ALEXANDER DICKIE, Master and P. M.·;
1JEROME BONAPARTE RIOHABDSON, Paet Master.

1 HIRAM ASHLEY MESSENGER, Past Master.

Volcano . • .. •..... . No. 156, .... REUBEN FREDERICK FBYE, Senior Warden.

C'lay, . • .••••• .. • • No. 101, . . .. BRIGHAM BLISS McKENZIE, Master and P. Master.
Manza,nita.. ..... . No. 102, .... JOHN STORER M cBRmE, Past Master and Rep.

Santa Rosa, ... . .. . No. 57, .. \CHARLES BARNARD KOBES, Master;
l THOMAS HART BENTON ANDERSON, Past Master.

.n.......·ll

Union, . •. ......... No. 58, .. 5 THOMAS BENTON REID, Master;
I RoBEBT ALEXANDER, Senior Warden.
EDWARD HENRY HART, Master;
Live Oak, ........ . No. 61, . . JOHN ALLISON BEOKWITH,
{ JOHN WILLIAM McCLYMONDS, Past Masters.
•JUNIA JOSIAH WARNER,

t

Goo. Washington, . • No. 62, ..•.. JAMES FRANCIS BLACK, Past Master and Rep.
Natlrr:w,, . ....... ...No. 64, •. j CHRISTIAN LUilWIO ECKLON, Master and P. M.;

I L11:wrs W ABHINGTON HOLLINGSWORTH, Jr. Warden.

Amador, . . . . .. ... . No. 65, .. j JOHN OULD, Master and Past Master;
) WALLACE KAY, Past Master.
N 6S
.
MO'l"ning Stan-,. .... o. • • .

{

JAMES HALSTEAD LINDSLEY, Master;
EDWARD RICHARDS HEDGES,~
ORRIN STAPLES HENDERSON, Past Mastera.
HENRY CALCOTr KEYll:ll,

Enterpriu, . .. . ... No. 70. .... ALONZO GBAl!'FIB, Master and Past Master.
Pefaluma, • . • . . . .. . No. 77, . . j WILLIAM HENBY ZABTMANN, Master;

1 CHARLES 0BINGTON PERKINS, Past Master.

Cal.a.veraa, .. ...... No. 78, .•. . ADOLPHUS HENRY COULTER, Representative.
Humbo'fdt, . ... .... • No. 79, .... JOHN MERVIN MELENDY, Past Master and Rep.

Ione, . .... . .... ... . No. 80, .... JULIUS EDMUND HUBER, Master.
Yolo, ... .. .. ... . .. No. 81, .... CHABL!i:S HENBY BORK, Master and Past Master.

Vuper, .. .. . .. ... . No. 84. . . 5 WILLIAM PRESTON JOHNSON, Master;
I JAMES LOUIS BARHAM, Past Master.
NatJal, .....•.. .. . . No. 87, .. j JOHN JACOB LUCHSINGER, Past Master and Rep.;
1MARTIN JEREMIAH WRIGHT, Past Master.

N

103'. .
<nvvi e, . . . . . . . . . o.

DAVID HILTON, Master and Past Master;
CHARLES DENNIS DUNN, Senior Warden;
AnoLPH CoHN, l Past Masters.

l

ISAAC UPHAM, f

Le:rAngton,. . ... ... No. 104,. . .. Is.uc FUNK B.a.KEB, Master.
.A.rear.a, •••• ••••• • No. 106, .. . . WEBLEY WHIPPLE STONE, PaRt Master·and Rep.

Pajaro,... . . . . . . No. 110, ... . FRA.NKLIN EDWIN MA UK, Master and Past Master.
Chico, ..... ... ... No. 111, .. j EMIL MAYBEUR, Senior Warden;
I THOMAS BICKNELL, Past Master.
Summit, . .....• . . No. 112, . . . . GEORGE THOMAS McCABE, Master and P. Master.
( WILLIAM BERRY M cKENZIE, Master ;
Ede11,. ••• ••••••• •No. 113, .. ) EDMUND ANDERSON WATKINS, Senior Warden;
. WILLIAM JOHN LANDERS, Past Master.
Mount Zion, .. ·.•. . No. 114, .... SAMUll:L AUGUSTUS LAINE, Representative.
Concord, ........ . No. 117, .. ! ALBERT ELGIN RoBINSON, Master;
I JOHN MAuruc11: CHAPMAN, Junior Warden.

Clinton,. . ..... . . . No. 119, .... WILLIAM GooDALL, Master and Past Master.
JACOB GEORG& LEI.llOLD, Master;
Fuulity, ...••.• . • ~o. 120, . . { PHILIP J ACOBOVIOS, Senior warden ;
Lours CoHN, Past Master.
Ionic, .... ...... . . ~o. 121, . . .. RUBBELL WARREN BROWN, Representative.

.Alamo, . . .. . ... • No. 122,. . .. JAM&B MARION DALEY, Past Master.
GEORGE H WARFIELD, Master;
Sotoyome, · ·· · ·· · .No. 123, · · MARTIN VAY BUREN HOOTEN, (
{
Past Master~ ..
y
J
.
OHN OUNG,
Table Mounf.ain, . . No. 124, .. l WILLIAM JAMES, Master and Past Master ;
l LOUIS GOODDAY, Past Master.
Lafayet;U, . . .• .. No. 126, .. . . THOMA!:! GARR&'l'T WILTON, Past Master and Rep.

Hermann, •.. ...• No. 127,..

.
l

GUSTAV CARL BEOKH, Master;
RtoHARD EMIL Loms MUNK, Senior Warden;
·
RALPH DE CLAIRMONT, t Past Masters.
LUDWIG SCHUMACHER, f

Visalia, ..... .. .. . No. 128, .... WHEATON ANDREW GRAY, Senior W~rden
Nicolaua, .... .•. •. No. 129, .. . . LYNN MORTON JcsTIS, Master.
WOOf!~ .... ·.No. 131,. ·

CHARLES LEWIS NEWTON, Senior Warden;
JOHN BOOTH LILLIK, Past Master and Rep ;
{
JOHN CHATTKN THOMPSON, Past Master.

Sincerity, . .. . . ... No. 132, ..•. WILLIAM FLYNN, Representative.
Yoaemitt, .. ... ... . No. 133, . •.. SAMUEL BENJAMIN FERGUSON, Master and P. M.
.

,

~GEORGE FREDERICK WOODMAN, Master and P. M. ;

THOMAS HUGH BUCKINGHAM, Junior Warden;
FRANK BENJAMIN MoKEVITT, Past Master.

Vacaville, •. . . .. .•No. 134,..

Valley, ......•. . . . No. 135, .... DAVtD WILLIAM KEIVER, Master an<! Past Master.

f
Pacific, ... .. •. ... No. 136, . .

1896.]

[Oct. 13,

Procee,dings of the

586

ALMOND RALEIGH MORROW, Master;
JAMES WRIGHT ANDERSON,
THOMAS ANDERSON,
WIT,LIAM HARVEY F'.:DWARDa,

Put Mastere.

MARTIN JONES,
JOHN F1TZMAURIOK KENNll:DY,
GEORGE PENLINGTON,
THOMAS PKNLINGTON,
· GEORGE MAIRS PERINE,

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

} Past Mas
Woodland, ....... No. 156, .• j BYRON BALL,
ters,
l WILLIAM YORK BROWNING,
TCeylfnni:, •••••••• •No. 161, .... HORA.OE BKLL ALLEN, Master and Past Master.

l

CHARLES PARSHALL OVERTON, Master;
HUGH JAMES OWEN, Senior Warden;
( WILLIAM WILSON MCNAIR, Junior Warden·
CHARLES HENRY BRYAN,
.
Excdafm, ··· .. · ... No. 166,.
Past Masters.
WILLIAM AARON Doun,
SAMUEL HENRY PERKINS
. THEoDORE EDWARD SMI;H,

Alam.t.da,: · . .• .•• . No. 167, .... ANDREW JACKSON HARE, Past Master.

San Mat&J,. ···.··No. 168, • ..• PHIL PEREGREEN CHAMBERLAIN, Master and P. M.
~WILLIAM HENRY COBB, Junior Warden.
N
M< .
'
/
uaion, · · · · · · · · · 0 • 169• · • Cmus CLINTON Dow

'

JAKES TEVKBLY HODGDON,

l

JOHN CHRISTIAN GERHARD BRUCE, l Past Masters.
f
HEBER HUTTON TILDEN,

Curtis, ...•••. . . . . No. 140, ... . CHARLES EMILE HUMBERT, Master.

Elk Grove, •.... .. No. 173, ••.. HENRY ALTUOKER, Ma~ter and Past Master.
I>ryfnum,. ·•·· .... No. 174, .... THOMAS SILVA, Junior Warden.

Phreni.z, ••• ••.. •• • No. 178, .. {JOHN FRANKLIN JOHNSON, JR.,_ Master;
HENRY A KELLER, Past Master.
·
Mendocino, .... .. . No. 179, .... THOMAS JEFFERSON RIOHABDS, Master.

Ruaaian River• ••.. No. 181, .. j THOMAS MILLER YATES, Senior Warden and p. M.
l THOMAS McQuI~TON, Past Master.

Meridian, . . ..... . No. 182, .. .. JAMES HAMILTON SHERER, Master.

Clear Lake,. · . ... . No, 183, . . .. DANIEL JONES, Master and Past Master.
Si.erra Valley, ...• No. 184, .. J WILLIAM CROMWELL LEMMON, Master and P. M.;

I WALLA.CE OscAR BUCKLAND, Past Master.

G1·afton, ....•... • No. 141, .... LEWIS CASS JOHNSON, Master.

WILLIAM JAMll:S SMITH, Master;
}
Franklin, ... .. . . No. ]43, ., CHARLES EDWIN HOLLISTER,
Past Masters.
{ WILLIAM JOHNSTON,
ALFRED THOMAS JAMES REYNOLDS,
Fil.A.NK BACON LAUD, Master;
EDWARD BENTLEY CHURCH, Senior Warden;
WILLIAM RHEIN HARD JOST, Junior Warden;

THOMAS KYLE,
REUBKN HEDLEY LLOYD,
GEORGE HOWARD THOMPSON,
JOHN TONNINGSEN,

Put Masters•

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN TUTTLE, Paet Master.

THOMAS ROWLANDS, Maater and Paot Master ;

~:~~=LioNE,
EDWARD PLESANT COLE,

! '

l

{ FRANK KAVANAUGH LIPPITT, Master and Past M.;
N l
, ct
.
J
C
J
.ar ura8, .... . • . • O. 80, · · WILLIA~
- AMll:S HESNEY, ur;uor Warden ;

Crockett, ..•.. . .. . No. 139, . . ' Juuus REIMER, Junior Warden.

Orilmtal, ......... No.14-l, ..

587

)
Put Masters.

.A.bell, . .• • ........ No. 146, ... . GEORGE w ASHINGTON STOUT, Master.
Molino, . . .. .. ... . No. 150, . ... ALBKBT OLIVER PEDEN, Senior Warden.
Pai,myra, ...... . . • No. 151, ... , JOHN PEARSON, Master and P a.st Master.

Claiborne,··· . . .. . No. 185, .... LAMBERT LEWIS AROHlBALD, Master and Past M.
Keith,·· ......... . No. 187, .. .. HENBY HEoKER, S enior Warden •
( ZACHARY TAYLOR GrLPIN, Senior Warden;
I GEORGE HENRY SMITH, Junior Warden;
N
Oakland
' . . . . ' . ... • o. l8S,. ' ~ GEORGE PATTERSON,

{Put Masters.
I WILLIAM FRANK, PIERCE,
lNATHAN WESTON SPAUJ,DING,
N<>rthern Light, · · .No. 190, . ... ERASTUS EDWARD RAWLINGS, Master and Past M.
Marin, . .••..•••. No. 191,., j ROBERT F URLONG, Master;
I FRANK MARION ANGELLOTTI Past Master.
'
& nta Barbara, .••• No. 192, .. .• CLARENCE CROSBY KNIGHT, Master.
I!.

f

erndale, •.•.•... . No. 193, .... OsCAR DUNWBEATH WHITTIER, Master.
Mountain View
• ..

N 0 194 { CYBi:s PHILBRIOK BERRY, Master and Past Ma.ter;
• . . ERNEST LEROY BERRY, Senior warden;
·
HOUKEN TRULSEN, Junior Warden

Buckeye, • • ··· ·· ··No. 195, · .• . WILLIAM Sn1s, Past M aster and ~presentative.

588

Proceedings of the

1896.]

[Oot. 13,

l

HMtley, . .. .. ... . No. 199, ..

Trucku, •.. . ••.•.. No. 200, .... DANIEL McPHETERS, Master and Past Master.
PtnUilpha,. .. .... No. 202,. ·

{

CHARLES WEBLEY BLAKE, Master;
CoBNELIUS WELLES PENDLETON, lPast Masters.
GRANVILLE QUINCY STKWART,
l

Confidence, ... ... . No. 203, .... THOMAS PR INCK LABREE, Representative.
Salinaa, ... ....... No. 2M, . ... FRANCIS ALVIN ABBOTT, Master and Past Master.
Newville, . .... .... No. 201>,. ... JAMES STEPHll:N MARKHAM, Master.
Anaheim, . ... . . .. No. 2<YT, . ••• SYDNKY HOLMAN, Senior Warden.
Rio Vi8f,a, ....... No. 208, .... THOMAS POWELL EMIGH, Master and Past Master.

King David'a,. .. . No. 209, .. { RALPH PARKER SUTLIFF&, Master;
FREDERICK ADAMS, Po.st Master.

Friendahip,. . ..... No. 210, ..
.

JOHN THOMA!! CoYLK, Master;
DENNIS VINCll:NT MAHONEY, Senior Warden ;
{ GEORGE WARRINGTON WORTHEN, Junior Warden;
WILLIAM HKNRY CLARK, Past Master.

San Btniro, ... ... No. 211, .... ROBINSON RUOKLIDGlll, Past Master and Rep.

So. San Fran' co, . . No. 212, .. { ADOLPH lt'REDKRIOK FITsCHEN, Master ;
ELIAS 0 HARE, Past Master.
San Buenaventura, No. 214, .•.. WILLIS PHILIP LINCOLN, Senior warden.
Oak <hove, ...... No. 215, ..

Doric,. ......... .. No. 216,. .

EDWARD BELL Lov&JOY, Senior Warden;
BKNJAMIN SALSBURY McFARLAND, Junior Warden;
JAMBS B11:sTOR MERRIT!', Past Master.

l

WILLIAM GLK~N CoPELAND, Master;
HKNRl'. WILLIAMSON, Senior Warden;
THOMAS LOOKER HILL, Junior warden ;
JOHN P FRAsEB, Past Master.

l

Monterey,. ...... . No. 217,.. { THOMAS GRAFTON. LAMBERT, Master and Past M.
WILL JACKS, Junior Warden.
Mow,ic, .. ....... . No. 218, .... GEORGE EDWIN KKNNlIDY, Master.

Janerville, ...... .. No. 232, .... WILLIAM HKzKKIAH GIFFORD, Master and P. M.

l

Suf"JJ'riae Valley, . . No. 235,. ... GKORGJC CLARK TuBNKR, Representative. ·
Hill's Ferry, .. . . . No. 236, ... • ALKXANDER MUNROKWILLIAMS, Maater and P. M.
fhmdaiupe, •..... . No. 237,. .. , WILLIAM THOMAS LUCAS, Master and Past Master.
OolUBa, .. .... ••... No. 240, .... J OSKPH BAILEY COOKE, Past Master and Rep.

Santa Ana, ...... . No. 241, .... JOHN PHILIP GREll:LBY, Master. ·
Magnolia, ....... . No. 242, .... BKNJAMIN FRANKLIN THOMAS, Maater and P. M.
Eucalyptm, ..... . No. 243, .... WILLIAM EDWARD RowLANDS, Master.
Alcatraz, . . .....• No. 244, . • J HKNRY BERNARD ScB'.INDLKR, Senior Warden;
1 CHARLES HKNRY RimmNGTON, Past Master.
GEORGE WESLEY ORR, Master and Past Master;
Lattrd., ... ........ No. 245,. . ROBERT AUGUSTUS LoNG, Senior Warden;
JAMES BUOHANAN MILLINGTON, Junior Warden.
Pomona, . .... .... No. 246, .... WARNER SHERMAN WINTKBS, Master and P. M.

l

Freano. . .

CHARLES WILLIAM BARRKTI', Master;
LoUis OLIVKR STKPHll:Ns, Senior Warden ;
. ..... No. 247,.. THOMAS J EFFKRSON KIRK, Junior Warden ;
{
WILKY JAMES TINNlN,
lpast M te
EDWARD SHARP VALKNTlNK, f
as rs.

AU1Lraa, ••.•.. .... ~o. 248, .... DAVID WILKINSON JENKS, Master and Past M.
Greenville, .•..... No. 249, •.•. RoBKRT WILLIAM YOUNG, Master ~nd Past Master.

.A.din, ... • .. • .•.. No. 250, ...• FRANCIS MARION KEBSERLING, Senior Warden.
LandmlJIT'k, .. . ... No. 253, .....ToHN SAMUEL TUTr, Master and Past Master.
Welcome, . . ... . ... No. 25.'\, .... WILLIAM HORACK SANBORN, Master and P.Master.
Lodi, ....... . . .. . No. 2!56, .... JAMBS DooroR HUFPMAN, Representative.
Ewrgreen, ...... .. No. 259, .... BYRON MBLNOT LoNGFKLLOW, Junior Warden.
GUSTA VE GUNZKNJ;ORPKR, Master ;
ARTHUR McDONALD BLADE, Senior Warden;
King Solomon'a, . .. No. 260,.. ABRAHAM HAROLD KArroN, Junior Warden;
{ WILLIAM FILMER,
l Pa.st Masters.
BKNJAMIN FRANKLIN JELLISON, f

Tuacam,, ........ .. No. 261,"

Spa. ItalAana, ..• • No. 219, .... CARLO BALZARINI, Past Master.

Duwney, . ..... .. . No. 220, . .. . QUINTIN JOHN RowLKY, Senior Warden.
Inyo, .. . . . . ..... . No. 221, .... THOMAS CARROLL BoLAND, Past Master and Rep.
<kanite, .. ....... No. 222, .... IRA LEMUEL DELANO, Master and Past Ma.. ter.
Brooklyn, .. ..... . No. 225, .. j SAMUEL SWIFT, Master;
l SAMUEL GRKKL&Y HILBORN, Pa.st Master.
FRKD BuRNKTI' FILLMORE, Master;

Ha1fWOll'dB, •.••• •• No. 226,..

l

JAMES HATOH, Junior Warden;
LOUii! BLOMTREK BERNARD,
} Past Masters.
HORATIO MANSR'R TEMPLETON,

Athena. ..... .. . . . No. 228, ...• WILLIAM OGBURN RUSSELL, Junior Warden.

589

SoW.no, •..• .•••.• No. 229, • ... JOHNSTON HILLARD COOPER, Master.
North BuUe, •.... . No. 230, ..•. JAMBS MA.BBHALL, Senior Warden.

San Simeon, •.... . No. 196, .... ALEXANDER PATERSON, Master.
Wilmington, .... .. No. 198, •••• DANIEL RANDALL CLAY, Master and Past Master.
CLARENCE WILLIAM KELLOGG,Master;
WILLIAM GIDDINGS FURBER, Senior Warden;
CURTIS JEFFERSON MONROE, Past Master.

Grand Lodge of California.

l

!RA ALBERT FOUCH, Master;
JOSEPH EDWIN RATHBUN, Past Master.

Lmnpoc, ....... ... No. 262, .... ALDKA AMAZON GLABSOCOK, Master.
Heaperian, ... . .. . No. 26!, .... JAMES FRANKLIN GOODWIN, Master and P. Master.
OrW.1td, .... -. .. .. No. 26.'\, .... THOMAS HULEN DOBSON, Junior Warden and P. M.
North East, .. . . .. No. 266, .... CHARLES HArKNs FEE, Junior Warden.
Galt, . . . ..•... ..• No. 267, .... HARRY HULL MoLAuGBRY, Representative.

Durant, ......... No. 268, . ·

l

JOHN MARTIN, Senior Warden ;
BARZILLAI p BULL, Past Master.

Paaa.d.ma, ..... .•. No. 272, .... OSCAR OTTO FREEMAN, Master.

Anchor,. ........ . No. 273, .... 0Mm: BULLIS, Master and Paat Master.

590

Proceeaings of the

1896.J

[Oct. 13,

I WILLIAM JosIAB JAMESON, Senior Warden.

Tehachapi, •..... . No. 313, ...• JORN HENBY SHERIDAN, Master and P. Master.
Temeacal, ...•.... No. 314, .•.. CHARLES HENBY CORNELL, Master.
N<YM.IXlUc, •• •• •• •• No. 315,. ... ScHOFIELD HOLGATE, Master.

~

Sanger, ••••.•. •.. No. 316, .... DOUGLAB BALFOUR, Master.
Fallbrook,. ..• .. . No. 317,. ... ABHLEY STEPHENS PARKER, Master.

Emmanuel, . . .... . No. 318, .•.• JAME:! HELM McGILL, Master.
Holknheck, ... . .. No. 319, .. j J oBN MARCUS DUNSMOOR, Master and Past Master ;

l TROWBBlDGE HYER wARD, Past Master.

South Gate,. ..... . No. 320,. ... ELBERT TAYLOR PARKE, Master.

Oallayomi, .• .•... No. 282, .•.• JOHN CHAPMAN VOLUNTINE, Junior Warden.
&Yuth Weat,. .... .. No. 283, ...• EDSON .A HoRNBEOK, Master and Past Master.
·
N 284 j PHILlP THOMAS LANGENOUR, Master.
Tynan, .. ........ o. ' .. I L11:v1 c .oNOVEB LANE, Senior Warden and P. M.

.
{ WILLIAM HENBY CoPE, Master;
Alual,. · · · · · · ·· ··No. 321, · • THOMAS WILLIAM RABBIS, Senior Warden;
HENRY PIERCE CHADBOURNE, Past Ma9ter.
Alhambra,. ...... No. 322,. ..• HENBY IRVING HANsCOME, Junior Warden.
Whittier, . . . .. . . . . No. 323, .••• CH ABLES OLIVER Tu cu: a, Master.
Corona, ... .. . ... . No. 324, . .•• EDWARD EVERETT GAYLORD, Junior Warden.
C'mu1uelo, •• ••••••• No. 325, ...• EDWARD JACKSON HATCH, Senior Warden.
Nlldlu,. . ... ....... u. D., .••. ALBERT HENRY STERNS, Master.
Long BeaA:h,. •• ••••• u. D., . . •• CHARLES EDWARD MITCHELL, Master and P. M.

Paso Roblu, ...... No. 286, . . .. JOHN ERNEST STEINBECK, Junior Warden.
. W'innedumah, . . .. No. 287, .••• WlLFBED WILLIAM WATTERSON, Senior Warden.

M~i.......... No. 288, .... JOHN KESSINGTON BARTHOLOMEW, M. and P. M.
E/Ainore, ••• ...... No. 289, .•.. WILLIAM ERSKINE SLO~, Past Master.

{

591

Loi BanOB, ....• .• No. 312, .. j WILLIAM JASPER STOCKTON, Master ;

Arroyo, ... ...... •No. 274, . . .• WILLIAM THOMAS CooK, Master.
Sdma,. ... ...... No. 27i, .••• WINFIELD ScOTI' ROBINSON, Master aud P. Master.
GEORGE SINSABAUGH, Master;
Southern Oalif'a, No. 278,.. WILLIAM wABHINGTON SEAMAN, l Past Master.
{ FBANOIB CHUTE WOODBURY,
f
BBICE.tiO AMENPEZ FASSETr, Master and P. M.;
Hanfm, . ..•... .. No. 279,.. ADOLPHUS GUSTAVUS DoLLENMAYEB,} P. Masters.
JAMES CURTIS ENSIGN,
Madera,. • ...•. . •• No. 280, .•.. HABTWELL CooKE BoBDEN, Junior Warden.
N 281 j DEVINE ZACHARIAH HAWKINS, Senior Warden;
Mm.1.'rli STuut,a, · • • · o.
'· · I JAMES FR&NKLIN BEDFORD, Past Master.

Sun.ad, •.•• . •. •. . • No. 290, ..

Grand Lo<l,ge of Cal~fornia.

EDWARD LEE STEPHENS, Master.
FRANK R. WILLIS, Senior Warden;
FRANK PUTNAM FLINT, Past Master.

Which report was concurred in, and the brethren therein named
were admitted to see.ta.

Santa Paula, .•.•. No. ~91, ...• EDWIN VrnnEN, Master and Past Master.
Loi Gatos, •• .••. .. No. 292, . •.• ARTHUB BEBEYMAN, Master.
<>ranqe Grooe, ... • No. 293, ..•• WILLIAM SMALLEY, Master and Past Master.

The Grand Secretary presented his Annual Report to the Grand
Lodge, as follows : -

Traver, . ....•.••• No. 294, ..•• JOSEPH DAVIS PILLSBURY, Master and P. Master.
Silver Gate, .•. ... . No. 296, .... JAMES WELLS, Past Master and Representative.

To the M. •• W. •. Grand Lodge of California :-

Mokelumne Hill, . . No. 298, . ..• THOMAS PBTllRB, Past Master and Repreeentative.

Redlanda, . • . . . .. No. 300, · ·

~

GEORGE HYDE KELSEY, Master;
JAMES FBEDEBlOK DRAKE, l Past Mastera.
FBANK PIERCE MESERVE, )

Ontario,. • ...•. •• . No. 301..•.. RoBEBT GBAY, Master and Past Master.
porterviJle, .....•. No. 303, .... JAMES FRANKLIN BOLLER, Master and Past Master.
N 304 j CHRISTOPHER DUDLEY, Master and Past Master;
Rudley, ••·· ·• •· · • o.
'··I EUGENE ADELBERT MowER, Junior Warden.

A:iuaa, .• .... ••.• •No. 305, . . • . T~OMAS FRANCIS GRISWOLD, Past Master and Rep.
.AahJ.1111', • • •••••••• No. 306, .... CONSTANTINE U'REN, Past Master and Rep.
Santa Monica,. •. . No. 307, •. .. NILES RATHBONE FOLSOM, Master and PaRt Master. .

MonrOWI, . . •••. . • No. 308, . . l WILLIAM PARKER SPENCJE, Master.
f JAMES A FOSHAY, Past Master.
Delarw, .• ... ..... No. 309,. ... BENJAMIN THOMAS, Master.
Siaaoo, ..• ••... . .. No. 310, ...• CHARLES WICKHAM, Junior Warden.
Huenenu, ...•. •. • No. 311, . . .• RtoHABll Cox, Master and Past Master.

(

The undersigned respectfully submits his sixth Annual Report, giving in
detail the transactions of his office since the la.st Annual Communication, and
presenting all such matters appertaining to that office as may reqnire action
by this Grand Body, or may, in any way, be of interest to its officers and
members.
As soon a.a possible after the close of the la.st Annual Communication, two
thousand two hundred and fifty copies of the proceedings thereof-being the
increased number ordered last year-were printed and distributed, or reserved
for future binding, in the customary manner, viz.: one copy to ea.ch of the
present Grand Officers ; one copy to each of the elective Pa.st Grand Officers ;
four copies to each of the Grand Bodies, American and Foreign, with which we
are in correspondence ; four copies to each of the Lodges of our juriBdiction ;
and six hundred copies reserved for future binding, to form Vol. XXII of our
proceedings.
The proceedings of all the Grand Lodges of the United States and British
America for the year since la.st report, have been received and placed in the
hands of the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, as have also
those of New South Wales, England, South Australia, Scotland and Victoria.

592

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 13,

Since the last report from this office commissions for Representatives f:om
other Grand Lodges, near the Grand Lodge of California, have been received
as follows :For our M. •. W. ·.Bro. JAMES BAUNTY STEVENS, Past Grand Master, from
the Grand Lodge of Canada, dated on the eleventh day of May, 1896 ;
For our W.'. Bro. THOMAS HUBBARD CABWF.LL, Paet Master, from the
Grand Lodge of Vermont, dated on the twentieth day of May, 1896;
For our M. ·. W." Bro. HENRY SAYRE ORME, Paet Grand Master, from the
Grand Lodge of Indiana, dated on the second day o~July, 1896;
For our W. ·. Bro. THOMAS GRAFTON LAMBERT, Paet Master, from the
Grand Lodge of South Dakota, dated on the tenth day of August, 1896 ; and
For our W. ·.Bro. NILES SEARLS, Paet Grand Orator, from the Grand
Lodge of Manitoba, dated on the thirteenth day of May, 1896.
·
The three Lodges to which charters were granted at the last Annual Communication were, in due season, properly constituted by deputies specially
appointed by the Grand Master, as follows : Whittier, No. 323, at Whittier, by CHARLES EDWARD MITCHELL, Past
Junior Grand Warden;
Corona, No. 324, at Pasadena, by HENRY SAYRE ORME, Paet Grand
Master;
Co718Uelo, No. 325, at Escondido, by WILLIAM JOHN MossHOLDER, Past
Master.
The letters of authorization to the three officers above named, with their
several reports, are herewith ~ubmitted. During the same time dispensations
for the formation of two new Lodges have, by direction of the Grand Master,
been issued as follows : . May 28, 1896, to Needle8 Lodge, at Needles, San Bernardino County;
June 29, 1896, to Long Beach Lodge, at Long Bea.ch, Loe Angeles Co~ty.
The petitions for the foregoing dispensations, with the certificates of withdrawa.l of the several petitioners from the todges of which they had last been
members, the recommendation of the proper chartered Lodges, and the necessary certificates as to the qualifications of the Masters and Wardens proposed,
were all correctly prepared and pre8ented ; and they a.re herewith submitted,
together with the returned dispensations and books of record and the petitions
of the new Lodges to be perpetuated by charter.
At the last Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, the charter of
Fall River Lodge, No. 270, at Glenburn, Shasta. County, was revoked, and
Bro. WILLIAM C. SELVESTF.R, late Secretary thereof, was authorized to settle
up its a.lfa.irs. Bro. SELVESTER has managed to pay the debts of the Lodge
with the amount realized from its aesets, presenting a clean balance sheet, but
nothing more. So the affairs of that extinct Lodge may be considered as
finally settled.
At date of last report there were two hundred a.nd sixty-one Lodges borne
upon the roll of the Grand Lodge, with a. membership of seventeen thousand
four hundred a.nd thirty-one. Since that time two dispensations to form new
Lodges have been granted. One Lodge (Fall River, No. 270,) has had itll
charter revoked, which leaves a net gain of one Lodge, and added to above

1896.J

Grana Loage of California.

593"

makes total number of Lodges now in existence in this jurisdiction two hundred a.nd sixty-two, with a membership of eighteen thousand two hundred and
eight, being a. net gain for the year of seven hundred and seventy-seven members, the largest increase in ma.ny years past.
The transcripts of trial records, unaccompanied by notices of appeal, which
have been received at this office since the last Annual Communication- all of
which have been placed in the hands of the Chairman of the Committee on
Grievance-are as follows : From
Hanford
No. 279, .. Orville BenedictPhelps, ..•• .. .. expelled ..• . Nov. 2, 1895;
Oalifor~ia,
No. 1, .. Philip Hammond(of Doric, 216,) suspended .. Jan. ~. 1896;
Magnolia,
No. 242, .. Peter Bonardi (B. A.) .• .••..•.• expelled . ... Feb. 20, 1896 •
Eoening Star, No. 186,. .Stephen Farrington,. • .... .. •... expelled .•.. M11r. 28, 1896;
Janesuille,
No. 232, .. William Henry .Mentor, .. .... .•. expelled ..•. A.pr. 26, 1896;
Norwalk,
No. 315, .. Samnel George Baker,. .........expelled . ... Ang. 18, 1896;
Forest,
No. 66, •. James Daniel Reilly, . •••••••.•• s11Bpended •.• Aug. 22, 1896.
The transcripts of trial record from ..11.zma Lodge, No. 305, in the case of
DAVID ALBERT SHAW, and from Elk Grove Lodge, No. 173, in the case of RoBERT Cmui.~TESEN, the consideration of which was postponed at the last Annua.l
Communication until the present, have again been referred to the Committee
on Grievances; as has also a notice of the restoration of Bro. ABBOT GODDARD
THORN, who was suspended for unmasonic conduct by Calaveraa Lodge, No.
78, on the eleventh day of November, 1886.
Of the proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges which have been
received during the year, the approval of the Grand Master in forty cases
have been filed in this office. Of these, two, being from Lodges Nos. 57 and
124, proposed changes in the time for stated meeting. Two, being from Lodges
Nos. 143 and 158, proposed to increase the monthly dues. Six, being from
Lodges Nos. 57, 161, 206, 229, 308 a.nd 324, proposed to reduce those dues.
One, being from Lodge No. 216, proposed to increase the affiliation fee. Two
being from Lodges Nos. 127 and 284, proposed an affiliation fee where hereto'.
fore none had existed. One, being from Lodge No. 9, proposed changing powers of Charity Committee. One, being from Lodge No. 30, proposed to rescind the assessment of one dollar upon the death of a member; and twenty.
five, being from Lodges Noe. 38, 50, 91, 93, 95, 114, 132, 141, 146, 166, 175,
179, 193, 205, 206, 235, 240, 245, 249, 258, 284, 285, 288, 291, 297 and 321,
proposed to reduce the fee for the deirees.
Proposed amendments to the By-Laws, relative to the reduction of dues of
members, from Lodges Nos. 12, 134, 249 and 292, were disapproved by the
Grand Master, for the reason that the rate of dues proposed was thought to
be too low for the Lodges to maintain a healthy and useful existence.
The approval of the Grand Master being but a temporary authorization
the foregoing amendments, as required by our laws, have been placed in th;
hands of the Chairman of the Committee on By-Laws of Lodges, and will be
submitted to the Grand Lodge for final action, as have the books of By-Laws
of the two Lodges now working under dispensation.
Since the last Annual Communication, thirty-one special dispensations for
sundry purposes have, by order of the Grand Master, been issued from this
office, as follows :

3

594

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 13,

December 30th, 1895, to Volcano, No. 06;
December 31st, 1895, to Ionic, No. 121 ; ·
January 7th, 1896, to Tuscan, No. 261;
January 9th, 1896, to Campo Seco, No. 100;
January 10th, 1896, to Tyrian, No. 284;
February 5th, 1896, to Ban Miguel, No. 285;
Febmary 12th, 1896, to Bear Mountain, No. 76;
April 13th, 1896, to Elsinore, No. 289; and
June 18th, 1896, to Rose's Bar, No. 89, to elect officers at a time other than
that provided in our laws.
·
April 7th, 1896, to Michigan City, No. 47 ;
May 28th, 1896, to Consuelo\ No. 325; and
June 30th, 1896, to Tehachapi, No. 313, to fill vacancies in the office of
Master.
March 6th, 1896, to Los Angeles, No. 42, to fill a vacancy in the office of
Senior Warden.
February 4th, 1896, to Ban Benito, No. 211, to fill a vacany it; the office of
Junior Warden.
October 3d, 1895, to Jhcelxior, No. 166;
January 10th, 1896, to Occidental, No. 22;
January 20th, 1896, to King Solomon's, No. 260;
January 27th, 1896, to Hollenbeck, No. 319;
February 15th, 1896, two to Los Angeles, No. 42;
March 7th, 1896, to La Fayette, No. 126;
March 13th, 1896, to King Solomon's, No. 260;
April 6th, 1896, to Monrovia, No. 308;
April 29th, 1896, to Martinez, No. 41 ;
May 7th, 1896, to Teli.ama, No. 3;
June lat, 1896, to Mt. Jackson, No. 295 i.
July 3d, 1896, two to Mission, No. 169;
July 29th, 1896, to San Simeon, No. 196; and
August 15th, 1896, to Doric, No. 216, to re-ballot upon the petitions of
rejected applications for degrees.
February 4th, 1896, to Oakland, No. 188, to receive and act upon the petition of an applicant for the degrees belonging to the Navy of the United
States, and not having the preecribed qualification of residence.
All which papers have been placed in the hands of the Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence. The following has also been received an<;!. transmitted to that committee :A tr&nscript of the trial record of Bro. WIJ,LIAM WYNN REDMAN REEVES,
Master of Suisun Lodge, No. 55, by Commissioners appointed by the Grand
Master, upon a charge of unmasonic conduct, preferred by five members of
that Lodge ; which trial resulted in a verdict of guilty and a sentence of suspension on the twenty-ninth day of November, 1895.
An appeal from the above findings and sentence, dated February 24th,
1896, was received at this office on March 3d, 1896, which has also been placed
with the committee.
· At the Annual Communication of October, 1891, a communication was

1896.J

Grand· Lodge of (Jalifornia.

590

presented. from the R. '. W. '. Bro. WILLIAM RoNALDBON, Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge of New Zealand, dated at Christchurch on the twenty-fifth
day of March, 1891, praying for recognition from our Grand Lodge and an
exchange of Representative s. At that time the request was denied, it not
appearing that recognition had been granted by either of the Grand Lodges
under whom the constituent Lodges of New Zealand had heretofore held
obedience. From documents received at this office it appears that the Grand
Lodge of England grantci recognition to the Grand Lodge of New Zealand,
by an almost unanimous vote, at a Special Communication called for that
purpose on the twenty-ninth day of July last, and the matter of our recognition of that Grand Body has again been submitjed to the Committee.
At the last Annual Communication a like request was presented from the
United Grand Lodge of Victoria, The Committee on Juriapmdence, to whom
the matter was referred, reported, in part, as follows :It has been the settled policy of this Grand Lodge in reference to new
Grand Lodges to ascertain what was the condition of Masonry in the .territory
over which the new Grand Lodg~ claims jurisdiction ; how many Lodges there
were ther~ and under what obedience they held; how many of them joined in
the establishment of the new Grand Lodge, and, if less than all joined, under
what obedie;11ce those not joining hold ; whether the new Grand Lodge has
been recogmzed by the Grand Lodges by which its constituents were originally chartered; what proceedings were had and taken at the Convention
looking to its organization, and what claim of jurisdiction it makes, and also
a copy of its Constitution. In regard to these matters we have no information.
We therefore recommend that the Grand Secretary be requested to ask
that Grand Lodge to furnish us with the necessary information as above set
forth. With the hope that that information will be furnished, we recommend
that no further action be taken at this time.
A copy of th.e above report and recommendation was mailed to V. •• W. '.
Bro. JOHN BRAIM, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Victoria, on the
twenty-fourth day of December last, and, although all the information desired
by the committee has not come to hand, from a programme of the proceedings
at the installation of the Grand Officers ol that Grand Body held at Melbourne on the fonrth day of May last, it appears that Represe~tatives have
been exchanged with England, Scotland and Ireland, all of the Grand Lodges
of the Coloriies and British America, and also by thirty.six of the Grand
Lodges of the United :States of America. The request for recognition and an
exchange of Representative s has again been referred to the Committee.
The matter of the "Washington Memorial Observances," proposed to be
held at Mount Vernon on the fourtl)enth day of December, 1899, is still in
the hands of the committee as unfinished business.
r
A memorial from Phanix Lodge, No. 178, praying for assistance in the case
of Bro. GEORGE LoRD, an old, honored and respec~ed member of that Lodge,
has been received and placed in the hands of the chairman of the Committee
on Finances. Bro. LORD was made a Mason in 1828, is now ninety-seven years
old, and has no means of support.
.
The various registers and account books of this office, the vouchers for the
orders drawn upon the Grand Treasurer, the several letter books for the year,
the files of letters received, and all other papers concerning the business of
the Grand Lodge, not hereinbefore mentioned, are herewith presented for in-

596

Procee<lings o/ the

[Oct. 13,

spection ; as is also an account of the revenues for the year ending on the
thirty-first day of July last, with the receipts of the Grand Treasurer for the
moneys collected by the undersigned, as follows : The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia,
for the fiscal year ending on the 31st day of July, 1896.
For receipts daring the year, as follows:
Dr.
1895-96.

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1895-96.

RECAPITULATION.

Amounting collectively to the sum of•.••.•.••••••

$24,251 60

Dr.

Received for dues on account of the General Fund to 31st Jnly, 1896,. •••.• $15,609 oo
''

"

"

" dispensations to form new Lodges daring the year,...........
150 00
310 00
" special dispensations for sundry purposes daring the year,...
" charters ordered by the Grand Lodge in October, 1895,......
150 00
" dividends on stock of the Masonic Hall Association,......... 3,165 60
from Grand Lodge of New Jersey, for acconnt of J.E. Ball,....
165 00
tor b'd vols. proceedioge, constitutions,monitors, and diplomas,..
376 00

Rep. Fund. Ge'}· Fund.

Nov. 1, From sundry sources, from lat Angnst, 1895, to this
date, as per account at page 287 et seq. of the
printed proceedings of the year 1895, ••.•••••••. $4,326 00 $15,768 00
" 1, " PenJ.alpha, No. 202, Grand Lodge dnes account
' 1 00
Grau ville Q. Stewart,... • . • • • • . . . • • . •.••••••.
989 25
1, " Mas. Hall Aas'n, diy. No. 71, on 3957 shares stock,
10 00
Dec. 30, " Volcano, No. 56, disp'n to elect officers, .•••.••
10 00
" 31, " Ionic, No. 121, disp'n to elect officers, ...••.•••.
10 ()()
Jan. 7, " Tuscan, No. 261, disp'n to elect officers, •..•••••
10 00
9, " Camp Seoo, No. 100, disp'n to elect officers, ....
10 00
" 10, " Tyrian, No. 284, disp'n to elect officers, •.•••••.
10 00
" 10, " Occidental, No. 22, disp 'n to re-ballot, .•.••..•••
10 00
" 20, " King Solomon's, No. 260, disp'n to re-ballot, ••..
791 40
" 21, " Mas. HallAss'n, div. No. 72, on 3957sharesstock,
10 00
" 27, " Hollenbeck, No. Sl9, disp'n to re-ballot, •.•.•.•.•
10 00
Feb. 4, " Oakland. No. 188, disp. to act on non-resident, •.
10 00
4, " San Benito, No. 211, disp'nto elect Jon. Warden,
10 00
5, " San Miguel, No. 285, disp'n to elect offir,ers, ••.•
10 00
" 12, " Bear Mountain, No. 76, disp'n to elect officers,..
20 00
" 15, " Los Angeles, No. 42, two disp'ns to re· ballot, .••
165 00
Mar. 2, " (}'d Lodge of New Jersey, on acc't J.E. Ball, .•
10 00
6, " Los Angeles, No. 42, disp'n to elect Sen. War., ••
10 00
7, " La Fayette, No. 126, disp'n to re-ballot, .••.••••
10 00
13, " King Solomon's, No. 260, disp'i;i to re-ballot, .•.
20 00
Apr. 6, " Monrovia, No. 308, two disp'ns to re-ballot, ••.•
10 00
"
7, " Michigan OUy, No. 47, disp'n to.elect Master, ••
10 00
" 13, " Elsinore, No. 289, dispensation to elect officers,
791 40
" 13, " Mas.Hal!Ass'n, div.No. 73, on 3957sharesstock,
10 ()()
" 27, " Martinez, No. 41, disp'n to re-ballot, ..•.•.•.•.•
10 00
May 7, " Tehama, No. 3, disp'n to re-ballot, .••••..••••••
75 00
" 28, " Needles, U. D., disp'n to form Lodge, ...•••..•.
10 00
" 28, " Consuelo, No. S25, disp'n to elect Master, .•....
10 00
June 1, " Mount Jackson, No. 295, disp'n to re-ballot, ..••
10 00
" 16, " Rose's Bar, No. 89, disp'n to elect officers, •••.
75 00
" 29, " Long Beaoh, U. D., disp'n to form Lodge, ..••.•
10 00
" SO, " ·Tehachapi, No. 3!S, disp'n to elect Master, .•..•
20 00
Joly 3, " Mission, No. 169, two disp'ns to re-ballot, .••.••
593 55
" 16, " Mas.HallAss'n,div.No.U,on3957sbaresstock,
10 00
" 29, " San Simeon, No. 196, disp'n to re-ballot,. .••••.
27 50
" SI, " Bound t1olumes, sales for the year, ............ .
19 00
"
" ............ .
" 31, " Proceedings,
24 75
" 31, " Oonstitutions,
"
"
........... ..
138 76
" 81, " Monitors,
'' "
.. ·. ·. · · · · · · ·
166 00
fees
"
"
" 31, " Diplomas,
$4,326 00 $19,925 60

597

"

"

"

"

Repr've

"

"

"

4:,326 00

Making a total amonnt, as above, of••••••.•••.•••..•.. $24,251 60
CONTRA.

1895-96.

Cr.
Rep. Fund. <rin. ;Fund

Aug. 9. Paid to Grand Treasurer, as per his receipt,•.•..... $1,303 76 $ 4,638 25
470 25
1, 731 75
lS.
"
"
639 50
2 ,305 60
15.
23.
727 00
2,527 00
654 50
2,299 60
30.
"
Sept. 5.
289 75
1,075 00
"
241 25
1,041 00
Oct. 4.
"
Apr. 21.
1,200 00
" "
Jnne 8.
500 00
"
Joly 16.
850 00
31•
1,767 60
"

.

.. ... .
...
..... .. .

.

.. ..

..

.. .

....

Total payments to the Grand Treasurer,. ...••.•.. $4,326 00 $19,925 60
Making an aggregate amonnt, as above, of.••

$24,251 60

Since the last Annual Communication the sum of $j,294.66 has been received and
paid to the Treasurer of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, as per his
receipts.
The returns from )lll the Lodges in the jurisdiction have been received. Those
which were not at first correct have been corrected, and all dues have been paid in
foll.
Respectfully submitted by
GEORGE JOHNSON,

Grand Secretary.

Which was ordered to be referred to the same specie.I committee
as that upon the Address of the Grand Master.
The Grand Treasurer presented his Annua.l Report to the Grand
Lodge, as follows :To the M. •• W. ·• Grand Lodge of Oalifornia :The undersigned herewith submits his account of the receipts and expenditures of
the Grand Lodge daring the past year, as follows:-

[Oct. 13,

Proceeilings of the

598

The Grand '.lreaaurer in account unth the Grand Lodge of California,
Dr.

REOEIPTS.

Rep. F=d. Gen. FDDd.

$ 2,485 «
Ang. 1. Balance in the treasnry as per last account,........
4,638 25
Ang. 9. Received from Grand Bec.retary this date, •••••••••. $1,:lOS 75
..
. • . . . . . • • • 470 25
1,731 75
Ang. 13.
• • • . • • . . . • 639 50
2,305 bO
Aug.15.
• • • . . . • • • . 727 00
2 ,527 00
Ang. 23.
• • • • • • • • • • 61;4 50
2 ,299 50
Aug. 30.
. . • . . . . . . . 289 75
1,075 00
Sept. 5.
. . . • • • • • • 241 25
1,038 00
Oct. 4.
3 00
Oct. 8.
1,200 00
Apr. 21.
. 500 00
Jone 8.
850 00
Joly 16.
1,757 60
Jnly 31.
••
Interest on $7,000 eix per cent. bonds o.f the
Joly 31.
420 00
Blue Lake Water Co •.•..•..•..•••.........•.•.....•.

"

..

..

..
.
..

..

..
..

..

Totals of balances and receipts for the year,. .••.•.•••••$4,326 00 $22,831 04
Making an aggregate amount of both fnode, of••....

$27,157 0-1.

DISBURSEMENTS.
Or.
1895-96.
For Aooount of Salaries of Grand Officers:
Paid Grand Secretary, ae per vouchers Nos. 4. 17, 35, 54, 70,
79, 83, 95, 104, 113, 118, anu 130, .•••••.••••• . ••.••••..•••. $2,499 96
Paid Assistant Grand Secretary, as per vouchers Noe. 3, 16, 33,
63, 69, 78, 82, 94, 10, 112, 115 and 128, •..•••.•.....••••••. 560 00
Paid Grand Tyler,
"
29, •..•..••.••••••....•. 100 00
50 00
Paid Grand Organist, " "
SO,.................... .
Paid Grand Lecturer, " "
80, 100, 117............ . 500 00
Paid Grand Treasurer, " "
" 129, ......... . ........ •. • 200 00 $3,909 96

For Account of J!Jxpense• of Elective Grand Officer• :
Paid expenses of Grand Master, Deputy Grand .Master, and
Senior Grand Warden, in attending the Grand Lodge at the
Communication in 1895, as per vouchers Noe. 20, 21 and 22,
For Account of }f}r;pemes Clf last Communication :
Paid enndry expenses of the Communication of the Grand
Lodge in 1895, as per vouchers Noe. 37, 40, 41, and 46, .•••
For AcoOUnt of J!Jxpense• of Grand. Secretary's OJ!We :
Paid for printing and binding 2,100 copies of the proceedings of
the Grand Lodge in 1895, as per vouchers Nos. 49, and 62, •. 1,826 00
Paid for sundry printing daring the year, as per vouchers Noe.
6, 58, 92, 109, and 122, • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • . • . . . • . . • . • • • • • • 302 50
Paid for rent of office of the Grand Secretary for the year, as
per vouchers Noe. 16, 67, 96, and 116, •.•••••.••••...•.•••• 1,200 00
Paid for postage etampe, box rent, expreesage on Proceedings,
B. F. Directory, B. F. Gnide, and A B 0 Guide, as per
vouchers Nos. 32, 65, 76, 84, 106, 110, and 119,... . .. •• • • . • • 193 78
Paid for parchment for diplomas, ribbon for same, roll call, pay
roll, printing dlplomae, telephone, wrapping paper and
stationery, as per vouchers Noe. 5, 7, _8, 44, 59, 60, 63, 66,
71, '12, 75 1 85, 86, 89, 90, 97, 98, 99, 108, 120, 121, 123, and 124, 328 60

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

Paid for care of offices, fuel and sundry incidental expenses,
as per vouchers Nos. 2, 13, 34., 52, 56, 68, 77, 81, 87, 93, 102,
111, 114, 125, and 127, ..••••••••••.•••••••••••• '." ........ $ 203 00

for the fiscal year ending 31st July, 1896.
1895-96.

1896.J

62 00

45 60

599

$4,053 88

For Account of Jj}rj,ra E:qumditures ordered :
Paid for si.xty·elght shares stock in the Masonic Hall .A.eso1ia·
tlon of San Francisco, as per voucher No. 1, •.••••••••••.• 1,224 00
Paid expenses of funeral of P. G. M. William Caldwell Belcher,
as per vouchers No~. 9, 10, 11, 12, 43, and 57,...... •• • • • • • 260 30
Paid appropriation to Past Grand Master J oho A. Tott, as per
vouchers Nos. U, 51, 101, and 126,............ • • • • . • • • • • 480 00
Paid to the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, as
per voucher No. 18,. ........................... . •• 1...... 250 00
P11id to the several Boards of Relief in the Jurisdiction, ae per
vonohers Nos. 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28, .................... 6,4.50 00
Paid California Safe Deposit Company for rent of safe, as per
voucher No. 31, • . . . . . • . • • • . • . • • .. . . • • .. • . . • . .. .. • • • • . • • •
10 00
Paid Hobbs, Wall & CompaJJy for chest for drapery and boxes
for proceedings, as per vouchers Noe. 36 and 55, . .........
3 75
Paid Mariti Lodge, No. 191, on account of J.E. Ball, as per
vouchers Nos. 38, 61, and 74,........... .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . 110 00
Paid Harry C. Boeh, balance of expenses as Grand Lecturer for
1896, as per voncher No. 39,...... .• . • • • • • . • . .. • • • • . . • • • • .
26 90
Paid L. Wadham, for examining books of Grand Treasurer and
Grand Secretary, as per voucher No. 42,...... ••• • • • • . . • . • .
30 00
P~id C. D. Bayes for jewel for Past Grand Master EJ. B. Orme,
as per voucher No. 45,..... .. . • • . . . . .. • • • . • • . . .. • . . • .. • • • 200 00
Paid Joseph Fredericks & Oo. for drapery for Grand Lodge
fnnerale, as per voucher No. 47,.. . • . • • • •. . .. • •. • • . • • . • • • 181 00
Paid E. M. Preston, on account of contingent expenses of
Grand Master, as per voucher No. 48,_..... •. ... . • • .•.•• ••• 300 00
· Paid Valley Lodge, No. 185, Grand Lodge does remitted, as per
voucher No. 50................. • • .. • • • • . .. • . • • • • . . . .. . •
SO 00
Paid for portrait of Past Grand Master James B. Stevens, as
per voucher No. 64,...... ••• • •• ••. . . . . . . .. • • .. •• .• • .. .. • . 126 50
Paid for frame for portrait of Past Grand Master Stevens, as
per voucher No. 73,.... •••.•••• .• • • • • ... • • ••• .. • • • •. . • • • •
36 00
Paid for binding extra numbers Proceedings, Vols. Ill and IV,
as per voncber No. 88, • • •• • • •• .. •• • • • • • • • ... . . . • • . . . • • • 295 00
Paid for relief of daughter of Paet Grand Master Titus, as per
voucher No. 91, .• • • • •. • • • • ••. • . .• • .•. • . . . . .• • • . • .. .. • •• •
50 00
Paid on account of appropriation to Masonic Widows' and
Orphans' Borne, as per voucher No. 105,. ................ 2,000 00
Paid Insurance on Grand Lodge Regalia, as per voucher No. 107,
10 00
N. W. Spaulding, by order of Grand Lodge,•.•••.••••••••••..•

$12,073 45
282 60

For Aacount of Payment of Representati'l!es, etc.:
Representatives of Lodges, amount disbursed as per pay roll .••• S,523 25
Appointed Grand Officers and Ohalrman ofBtanding Committees,
amonat disbursed as per pay roll, • • . • • • • • • •• .. .. • . • • • • . • • 223 00
S,746 25
Being a total amount of dieborsemente for the year, of.... .
And leaving a balance in the treasury of,. •••.•.•

$24.,173 64
2,983 40

600

Procudings of the
RECAPITULATION.

[Oct. 13,
Rep. Fttnd. Gen. J'und.

Be.le.nee remaining in the treasury Angnst 1, 1895..... ...... ...
Receipts during the year ending Jnly 31, 1896........... ..... .. $4,326 00

$2,,85 44

20,345 60 •

Being a total a.mount of be.lances and receipts, of, . ..... $4,326 00 $22,831 04.
39
Disbursements during the year ending Jnly 81, 1896 .......... .. 3, 746 25 20,427
,403 65
Leaving be.lances to the credit of the two fnnds of, .•.. . ....•.. $ 579 75 $ 2
679 75
Which being aggrega ted....... ........... ......
40

$ 2,983
Exhibits a general be.le.nee in the treasury, Jnly 31, 1896, of...•
books,
account
r's
e
Treaanr.
Grand
the
with
The vouchers for a.II the foregoing,
on
a.re herewith presented ; and, in addition to the b11le.nce of $2,983 40, cash
of
hand, he reports that he has in his keeping 3,967 shares of the ca.pita.I stock
which
of
ve.lne
par
the
Francisco,
Ban
of
Oity
the
of
n
Associatio
He.II
the Masonic
first.
is $89,570, and the actual present ve.lne $79,140; also seven 6 per cent. $1000
$7,000;
mortgage bonds of the Blne Lake Water Co., the par value of which is
to the
be!Jides U. B. bonds and cash belonging to the •'Reserve Fnnd," a.mounting
ying
accompan
report,
detailed
and
separate
a
in
seen
be
will
a.a
$5,011.4.1,
of
sum
this.
All which Is respectfully submitted by
EDWARD COLEMAN,
Grand Treasurer.

The Grand Treasure r also presente d his Annual Report, relative
to the Reserve Fund, as follows :To the M." W." (}rand. Lodge of California :sub·
The Grand Treasurer, as custodian of the reserve fund of the Grand Lodge,
mite the following report:1896.

Jnly 31. To be.lance of cash on hand, as per ll!st report..... .. ..$ 646 34
To cash received as interest on U. S. 4 per cent bonds.. 158 00
39 82
To N. W. Spe.n!ding, by order of Grand Lodge,.. ......

$197 82

844 16
Being a total of ca.sh received and now on hand, of... • • ••.•• •..• •••••• •• $
There is also In the possession of the Grand Treasurer , belonging to this
fund, $8,950, par ve.lne, in U.S. 4 per cent. bonds, which at $105.60,
25
the price quoted at this date, is . .. . . .. .. . .. .. .. • .. .. .. .. • .. • .. .. • • . 4.,167
4.1

Me.king tote.I of ca.sh and bonds now on hRnd of,. .......... .......... .... $5,0ll
The Grand Treasurer also reports a.mount on hand, as per last report, for
$1 75
account of the Pratt Monument Fund, the snm of,....... ......... .. ..
Pe.id to Monument Committee for frame of picture of monument, which
$1 75
exhausts the fnnd and be.lances the account, . . • • • •• • . . . • • • • • . • • . • . . •
Respectfully submitted .

EDWARD COLEMAN,
Grand Treawrer .

Both which reports, with their accompa nying books and vouchers ,
were ordered to be reflilrred to the Committee on Finances .

1896.J

G-rand Lodrje of California.

601

The Grand Master announc ed the appointm ent of the followin g
·
regular committ ees :Andrew Jackson He.re
Ernest Woodbur y Con~nt,
0 n. Credentials : · · · · · · . . · ·. · .. ..... .. . . . , James Halstead Lindsley,
{ Thomas Benton Reid,
John Chapman Voluntine .

On. Oharterg: . •..... . .••

···· ······· ....

John Storer McBride,
William Sims,
Robert Furlong,
{ Daniel Jones,
John Franklin Johnson.
Edson ..4 Hornbeck ,

On By-Laws oj LodgeB : ... • • • . . . . . • . . . . .

r
l

J Daniel McPheter s,

Christoph er Dudley,

Edward Lee Stephens,
LOscar Otto Freeman.

He also announc ed the appointm ent of Past Grand Master JAMES
BAUNTY STEVENS to fill a vacancy in the Committ ee on Jurispru dence,
a~d GEoBGE •MAIRS PERINE to fill a vacancy in the Committ ee on
Fmance.
Br?. EDWIN A. SHEBMAN presente d to each of the Grand Officers a
b?a~tiful bo~nd copy of the "Histor y of the Celebration of the
~iftieth Anmver~ary of the Taking Possessi on of Californ ia and Rais·
mg of the America n Flag at Montere y."
Grand Marshal EDWARD SwIFr WEST introdac ed the M.-. W.".
W. H. SooTT, P. G. M . of Illinois, who was invited by the Grand
·
Master to a seat in the Grand East.
Bro. REUBEN H. LLOYD presente d the Grand Lodge with a trowel
which for~erly belonged to our late Past Grand Master, LEONIDAS E.
PBA'IT, which was accepted with the thanks of the Grand Lodge'
unanimo usly tendered .
Bro. LLOYD also presente d the following resolutio n :ReBolved, That any ~or~ing t?ol. of this Order, presented to any Gran.d
cer.
Master, to. be us.ed by him lil offic1atmg at or assisting in performin g any
deposited
be
shall
perform,
to
invited
be
may
Lodge
Grand
this
e~ony which
ration
with the Grand Treasurer , to be held by the Grand Longe in commemo
of the event.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurispru dence.
Bro. Past Junior Grand Warden JACOB HART NEFF presente d a circul~ letter from a committee of the Grand Lodge of Wiscons in,
which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

602

ProceedingB of the

[Oct. 13,

Bro. OHABLBS PARSHALL OVERTON, Ohairman of the Masonic Board
of Relief of the Oity of San Francisco, presented the following :To the M.'. W.·. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:In view of the fact that the matter of the finances of this Board was
brought to the attention of the Lodges of this Sta.te during the past year, it
would seem proper at this time that some report be made in addition to the
'
·
customary account of receipt& and expenditures.
Moreover, our experiences have suggested the advisability of certain changes,
and have raised certain questions which it would seem in order to submit to
this Grand Lodge for ita determination.
From the circular letter sent to a.ll the Lodges throughou~ the State, under
date of June 12th last, asking aid from the Grand Lodge's funds, the financial
straits in which thi9 Board has found itself are well known. The responses to
our letter were prompt and courteous, and, in nearly every single instance,
favorable; but a technical objection to the legality of advancing to us any part
of the funds of the Grand Lodge during the receBB of the same, prevented the
plan from being carried out, and it was not deemed expedient to call a special
session of the Grand Lodge solely for this purpose.
However, the investigations made. at that time by the Grand Master and
the Finance Committee, satisfied them a.a to the justice as well a.a to the necessities of our case, and they suggested our borrowing the fundll needed for the
continua.nee of our work, they promising to recommend the repayment by this
Grand Lodge of such loans as we might be able to secure.
At a time when we were practically without funds for the continuance of
our work, the firm of Halsted & Co., to whom this Board is already indebted
for many substantial favor11, tendered to us, without solicitation, the sum of
five hundred doliare as a loan, without interest, to be repaid out of our first
available appropriation. It is need.Iese to e&f this offer was promptly accepted
and an appeal was then made to the city Lodges for such further amount& as
were necessary. The prompt and generous responses of these Lodges has
furnished us with eight hundred dollars additional, enabling us to continue
without interruption the dispensing of necessary charities and the burial of
the dead, and we would Tespectfully ask that the appropriation to be given us
at this time be ma.de sufficient to cover the a.mount of our indebtedness.
As one of the reeulta of our experiences during the past year, it appears to
ue that a change in the manner of apportioning the appropriation from the
Grand Lodge should be ma.de, in view of the fact that the personnel of this
Board changes on the first of January of each year, while the appropriation ie
ma.de available in October, a.nd it would seem more desirable and more just
that e&eh Boa.rd of Relief receive int&et from the Grand Lodge the appropriation for the year in which it conducts its affairs.
·To inaugurate this system, which I am confident will be highly ad van·
tageous, it will be necessary at this time to arrange for appropriations to cover
a period of fifteen months, i. e., from October first of this year until the end of
1897, by giving this Board sufficient to last it until the close of its term, and
making a separate appropriation which shall be available for the Boa.rd of

1896.]

Grand Lodge of OaUfrwnia.

603

1897, and thereafter ma.king the appropriation available for each calendar or
·
Board year.
I would, therefore, respectfully recommend that at this time an appropria
tion be made sufficient to cover the indebtedneBB of the present Board and ~
.carry it until the first of January, and that a separate appropriation be ma.de
for the Board of 1897, the same to become available when the Board of 1897
assumes office, and that the appropriations hereafter be made available at the
beginning of e&eh Board year, to wit, in the first part of January.
After ma.king careful calculations, we now ask for thirteen hundred dollars
for the repayment of amounts borrowed, and one thousand dollars for use
during the remainder of our term; and that the Grand Lodge make such an
approp~iation for. t~e use of the Board of 1897 as it may deem right and proper.
While recogmzmg fully the thrift and enterprising nature of the Scotch
~e~pl~, ~et ~or experience with applicants claiming membership under Scottish
Jnr1sd1ct1on is such as to convince us, as well as other Boards of Relief, that a
grea~ laxity exists, a~ least in some of the seaports of Scotland, regarding the
quality of the material from which Masons are made. It appears to be the
custom to take in sailors, cooks and stewards of vessels lying in the port for
no reason that we can imagine except to get the small initiation fee; and we
are repeatedly beset by applications from negro stewards and cooks who are
without eufllcie.nt in~elligence to comprehend any of the principles of 'Masonry,
except that wh'.ch giv011 them pecuniary aid; and we respectfully recommend
th~t the Co~m1ttee on Correspondence of this Grand Lodge get such facts in
this connect10n as. can be obtai.ued from our Boards of Relief, and enter into
correspondence with the Grand Lodge of Scotland respecting the quality of
Masons which a few of thf'ir Lodges launch upon the Fraternity at large.
The quest.ion of ~ranting relief to Masons out of standing is one th 11t has
been exhaustively discuBBed by this Board without reaching a conclusion, and
we would respectfully ask a ruling by this Grand Lodge. Of course we understand that where the applicant has wi!Uully or carelessly allowed himself to
lapse from standing and makes application only when hie necessities impel him
to do so, that such a case should meet with no consideration · but the latest
instance coming under our notice is one that has caused a diviei~n of sentiment
among the members of this Board. It is that of a man who came to California
from an Eastern city, bringing with him considerable monev which he invested
and lost in business here. He was unable to keep up hi~· dues in hie home
Lo~e and. too proud to acknowledge his condition, hoping some time later to
r~tneve _hi~ fortun~s and again place himself in standing. Long-continued
s10kness ID the family exhausted his remaining means. Knowing himself to
be out of standing he would not apply to those who had been hie brethren
pr~fe.rring, as he himself eaid, to star\·e. But his wife, threatened with
eV1ct1on from their home and driven to desperation by the straits in which
they found themselves, and by the hnnger of five little children, and believing
her hu~band to be a Mason, without his knowledge has applied to this Board
for a.ss1sta.uce. By a telegram we learn that the husband has not been in
standing in his Lodge for two years. For the g11idance of this nnd succeeding
Boards, we respectfully a.sk a ruling by the Grand Lodge on this case.

Which was ordersd to be referred to the Oommittee on Finance.

604

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 13,

Bro. RoBEBT HARMER COUNTRYMAN presented resolutions relative
to the Masonic Cemetery Association of Sa.n Francisco, which were
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Ma.ster announced that the delivery of the Annual
Oration would be me.de the special order for eight o'clock this evening.
The Grand Lodge we.a then called off until seven-thirty o'clock this
evening.

~ n @rand ~odge.
EVENING SEBBION,

Tuesday, Octobe'I· 13th, A. L . 5896.

}

The Grand Lodge we.a called on a.t seven-thirty, the Grand Ma.star
presiding.
The Grand Secretary, on behalf of the various Masonic Boards of
Relief of the Jurisdiction, presented their annual reports to the Grand
Lodge, as follows :SAN FRANCISCO.
To the M. •. W. •• Grand Lodge of California:The Me.sonic Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco respectfully submits
the following report for the year ending September 3otb, 1896 :The present Board, oomprisiog the Masters of the Lodges of Sau Francisco or
their representatives, was organized on the fourth day of J1111oary , 1896, as follows:
Oalifomia, No. 1, by BKNRY A!IOlloFT. Orookett,
No. 139, by JULIUS REIME:B,
Parf. Union," 17, " JuLEB AURll>OU.
Oriental,
" 144, " F. H. LADD.
Occidental, " 22, " R.H. douNrBYllAlf. Ezcelsior.
" 166, " O. P. OvzaroN.
Golden Gate," 30, .. THOMAS TBKBELL. .Mi88ion,
.. 169, .. J. A. WILBON.
Mt. Moriah, " 44, " J. L. OBITTEND&N. So. San .Fran., .. ~12, ~ A. F. FITCHEN.
Fidelity,
" 120, "J. G. LEIBOLD.
Doric,
" 216, " W.G.CoPELAND.
Hermann, " 127, "G. C. BECKH.
Sper'a Ital'a, " 219, " C. BALZA.tUNI.
Pauijia,
" 136, " A. R. MORROW.
KingSowmon's," 260, G.GUNZll:NDOBFER
The following officers were elected to serve for the ensuing year, viz.: CHARLES
PARSHALL OVBBTON, Chairman j JOSEPH L. 0BITTBNDEN, Treasurer j and ELIAS c.
HA.BE, Secretary.
The receipts for the year were as follows, viz.:.From ABBessmems upon the Gity Lodges:
Amount brought forward • •... $1,84-0 34.
Oalifomia,
No. l,. ...... $456 48
No. 139, •.....• 122 50
Parfaile Union, "
17,.... •.• •
99 61 OrockeU,
" 14.4,•••• • •. 175 80
Oc0idental,
22,.. . .... 204 35 Oriental,
" 166,. •••••• 205 16
Golden Gate,
30,..... .. 173 85 Ezcelsior,
" 169,•.••••• 296 85
Mount Moriah, " «,.. . . ... 229 15 Mission,
97 55
F'i,delUy,
" 120,....... 221 90 So. San Fr'sco, " 212,.... . . .
" 216,•••••• • 14.8 50
Hermann,
" 127,... •• •• 113 lG Dorio,
65 35
Pacfji,c,
" 136,.. . .... 34.6 85 l~per'a Italiana, " 219.•..•• ••
King Sowmon's, " 260, •. . .••• 225 40
Amount carried forward •• •• • $1,845 34
Being a toW amount of receipts from aeseesmen!l! upon the Lodges, of . • • . $3,182 45

Grand Lodge of Oalifornw.

1896.J

605

Balance oo hand at date of last report, .•••.••••••••••••••••.•..•••••.••• $ 537 66
From Appropriation by the Grand Lodge, ........ , ••• , . • • • • • . . • • .. .. .. • • 4.,000 00
Donations by Halsted & Co.,.......... ..................... .......
400 00
''

Loans from sundry City Lodges, . . ... . .... _.... ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .

"

" Halsted&Co.,.... . ...................................
500 00
Amount refunded by sundry Lodges and brethren of California,.... 1,070 15
"
of other Juriedictious,••.• •• ,. . . 2,253 25
''

received from interest,. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . • . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .

800 00

4:69 10

Total receipts, from all sources, of. .... .......................... . $13,21261
The disbursements have been as follows:For the relief of si<>k and needy brethren, ....................... , •••..•• $4.,203 10
"
"
" wives, widows and children of brethren,....... .. ... ... . 6,688 52
Being a total disbursement for charities of.••• ,,, .••.••. , •••.• •• •. $10,891 62
To which is to be added for salary of Secretary and sundry incidental ex.
peoses,. . ...... . • • •• . . • . . • • • • • • . • • • .. • • . . . .• . • . • . . . . • • . • . • • • • • • . . . • 1,685 85
Making the total expenditures for the year, ....•••• • • •••••••• •• ••. $12,577 47
Leaving a balance in the treasury September SOtb, 1896, or..............
635 14.
The ~am of $1,070.15, reported above as having been "refunded to ihe Board by
saodry Lodges and brethren of California," was received from the following iAdin,
No. 250,. .•••. $ 47 30 "'Amount brought forward., , • •. $670 30
.Antioch,
" 175,...... 25 00 NaTJaJ,
No. 87,. •• • •• 2 50
Bakersfield,
" 2~4,.. . . . . 60 00 Penta!lJha,
" 202,. .... . 12 40
Ohico,
" 111,.. .... 25 00 Rising Star,
"
63,...... 24 35
El Dorado,
" 26,. ..... 97 00 San Diego,
"
35,. .. ... 35 oo
0
Forest,
66,...... 25 00 San Joaquin,
19,...... 16 00
Franklin,
" 143,...... 88 60 Suisu.n,
" M,...... 16 00
Jefferson,
97,...... 15 oo Tehama,
a,...... 40 oo
King Da-vUi's
" 209,...... 25 00 7hwkee,
" 200, . .... 100 00
Madison,
" 23,. • . . . . 24.1 50 Tuolumne,
"
8,.. . . . . 20 00
Mount Jaokson,
" 295, . . . . . 5 00 Washington,
'' 20, ....• 100 60
.Mountain Shade,
18, . ..... 16 00 Yuba,
39,...... SO 00
Yotemite,
" lSS,. . • . • • 3 00
Amount carried forward ....... $670 SO
--Total, ........ .. ........ ... . ............. ... . .. . ....... .... .. ..... . $1,070 15
Dimitted Masons, their wives, widows or children, to whom relief is given, are
classed with Lodges of which they were last members.
The sum of$2,253.25, reported as having been" refunded by sundry Lodges and
brethren of other Jurisdictions," was received from the following Lodges or brethren
belonging thereto:Ne10 Decatur, No. 91, Alabama, •. . $35 00
Amount brougbHorward,. •.••. $268 ro
Freundschaft, •' 12, ADBtria., . . . . 3 00 Oapitola,
No.110, Iowa,... .. .. 10 00
.Acacia,
" 22, B. Oolumbia, 4.1 00 Dubuque,
S, " .. • • • • . 16 00
VanoouTJer,
2,
10 00 Fremont,
" 34.4., " • • • • • • • 15 00
St. John's,
" 618, Chins,....... 17 75 Hiram,
" 68, Kansas, •••• 148 00
Union,
·7, Oolorado,.. • 5 65 Orient,
.. 51, ..
13 00
Barmony,
" 20, Coooectioot, 10 00 Benry Barnes " 107, Kentucky, ••• 17 50
Lemhi,
" 11, Idaho, , • • • .. 10 00 Oortnthian,
" lUO, Louisiana,.. 25 00
Nez Perces, " 10,
•••.•. 26 00 Gate of Temple " - , Hase., •• ••• 18 00
Shoshone,
•• 25,
30 00 Orient,
" -,
. • . . • • 10 00
Cbflenant,
" 526, Illinois, •.••• 25 00 Rozbury,
- ,
....•. 45 00
Genter,
" 23, Indiana, •. ..• 40 00 Alpena,
" 199, Michigan, ••• 18 00
&cial,
" 86,
"
, •• . • 15 00 FowleniiV,e, ·" 164.,
• . • 25 00

I
l

Amount carried forward, .•.••.. $268 40

Amount carried forward. • • • •• $628 90

606

Proceeiiings of the

[Oct. 13,

Amount brought forward, ..•. . $628 90 · 'Amount brought forward, . .•• $1,256 50
Grand Biller, No. 34, Miohigao .•• 30 00 Judah,
No. 388, N. S. W.; •••. 25 00
Ark,
" 176, Minnesota, .• 10 00 &io!o,
6, Ohio, •..••. • 25 00
Independence " 76, Missouri, ..• 11 00 MaUiide,
" 140, Ontario, ••... 20 00
Lamar,
" 292,
. . . HO 65 OoUage GroTJe, " 51, Oregon, . • • . 10 00
New Home,
" 326,
3 00 Franklin,
" - , Peoo., ..•••• 100 00
Haating•,
" 60, Nebrsske.,. . 5 00 .Meridian Bun," 158,
... . .. 200 00
Garson,
1, Nevada, •. •. 45 35 Mount Moriah " 156, " •• •• • • 15 00
Hope,
" 22,
50 00 St. John's,
1, R. I.,~ ...... 52 00
Virginia,
" . 3,
"
.••. 16 00 St. John' a,
" 111, Scotland,. .. 74 00
Chaplain,
2, NewMe:xico, 5 00 St. NaJ.halen, "259,
·•. 20 00
Temple,
6, "
"
10 00 Plantation,
" 581,
•.. 7 30
Oommonw'h "409, New York, •. 74 00 Oannongate& Leith, No. 5, Scotl'd 16 00
Tenn. Falls, " 507,
"
50 00 El Paso,
No.130, Texa~,•.•• •• 63 00
LotDTJille,
" 134, "
"
16 oo Lone Star,
" 403, " .... •. 26 00
Biaing Star, " 451, "
10 60 Wasatch,
1, Utah, ... •.· .191 30
" 271, "
16 00 OUer Greek,
70, Vermont, ..• 20 00
" 58, "
5 00 BadgerMount.," 51, Washington , 23 00
Skekinah,
" 757, "
" •. 5 00 Eureka,
" 20,
Bil'Der,
5 00
u 493,
"
,, .. 10 00 Fern Hill,
'' . 80,
South Side,
11 15
" 390, N. S. W .,. •. .100 00 Renton,
" 29,
Australia,
"
65 50
" 618,
.; .. 15 00 Union,
9,
Hope,
7 50
Orient,
-, Prussia, •. .• 20 00
Amount carried forward, •.••. $1,256 50
Total, . . ...... .. ... ... . ... .. . ........... : .. . ..... .. . . .. ............ $2,253 25
The 11 um of $10,891 62, noted in the foregoing as being the h total disburseme nts
for charities,'' was dis\ributed as follows!To 44 cases from California, .... $2,740 00
Amount brought forward, .. .. $7,033 17
" 1
" Ale.be.ma, . ...
35 00 To 1 case fr om New Jersey,..
2 00
" 1
" Austria,... . ..
15 00
" 78 "
New York, .. . 375 25
" 3
" Br. Colombia,
61 00
" 1
" New Zea.land,
13 50
" 1
" Brazil,... . • . . . 316 15
" 3
" Neve.de.,,.. • • .
96 00
" 2
" Canada,... • . .
10 00
" l
Nova Scotia,..
70 00
" 3
" China,.. . .....
32 00
" 4 "
" Ohio,...... ...
53 85
" 1
" Colorado, • • . • 100 00
" 2 "
" Ontario,.,. . ..
25 00
" 3
" Connecticu t,.. 350 00
" 5 "
" Oregon,... ... 291 00
•• 4
" England,.. ... 2~6 00
" 5 "
Pennsylvan ia, 408 95
4 "
" Idaho,..... . .. 248 00
" 1
Peru, .. .. . . ..
25 00
" 5 "
" Iowa,..... . ..
93 00
" 1 "
" Prussia,... ...
20 00
" 4
" Illinois,... ....
79 45
" 1
" Rhode Island,
51 00
" 2 ••
" Indiana,... ... 508 55
" 12
" Scotland,. . ... 402 00
" 3
" Ireland,.... ...
75 55
" 1
" S. Oarolina.,..
5 00
" 4 "
•• Kansas,... . ... 133 Oil
" 3
" Spain,..... ... 130 00
" 2
" Kentucky,. . ..
42 50
" 1
" Tennessee, ....
50 00
" 1
" Louisiana, . . • .
65 00
" 5
" Te:xe.s,... . . . • • 212 20
1 "
" Maine,.... ...
40 00
" 2
" Uta.h, . • . . .. .. 195 60
" 5 ••
" Massachuse tts, 312 00
" 1
" Venezuela, ...
35 00
" 5
" Mexico,... ... 102 80
2
" Vermont,.. ... 280 00
" 4
" Michigan,. ...
95 60
" 1 "
" Virginia.,.. ....
12 00
" 3
" Minne~otaJ . .. 340 00
" 5
" Washington,.. 190 25
8
" Missouri,. . .. • 481 57
2
" Wisconsin, .,..
23 50
" 1
Monta.ne.,. ....
15 00
" 8 "
" N. S. Wales,.. 218 00
u 2
" N. Brnnswick, 516 00
" 1 "
" New'Me:xico,.
10 00
" sundry unclassed,. • • • • • • • • • 668 35
Amonnt carried forwa.rd, .... $7,033 17
----Total, .......... ~ ............ .. . ... . ..... .... ............ ......... $10,891 62

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

607

RECAPITULATION.
Balance in the trea.snry September 30th, 1895,... . • • • . • . . ............ .. $
537 66
Received from e.seessments upon the city Lodges, ............ ......... .. 3,182
45
"
" Grand Loilge appr<ipria.tion, ........... .... . ........... .. 4,000 00
"
" Sundry donations and loans, .. ......... . ........... ... . .. . 1,700 00
"
repayments of relief to applicants from California, . .•..•.••... 1,070 15
"
repayments of relief to e.pplica.nts from other Jurisdiction s, •••• 2,253 25
''
interest a.mounting to . . ........... ........... ... . ............ .
469 10
Total receipts for the year, ........... ........... ........... ........... $13,212 61
·From which deduct the e:wenditnre s of the year, as before,.... ..... 12,577 47
And there remains a be.lance in ihe trea.sory of.. ............ ...... . .. .. $ 635 14
Of the foregoing sum of $10,891 62, disbursed for the relief of the sick and distressed, there wa.s expendedFor Ma.sons of the Jurisdictian of Californi a,........... ......... . ..... , $1,023
95
For Ma.sons of other J orisdictions , ........ .. ....... . ......... . ....... . 3,718
55
For the wives, widows, and orphans of Masons of California, •••••.••... 1,716
75
For the wives, widows, and orphans of Me.sons of other Jurisdiction s,... 4,304 02
For sundry nnclassed ........ .......... .... • ......... ............ .. ....
668 85
Making the total relief, as above, of•••••••••••• •••••••••••• $10,891 62
The expenditure s above enumerated do not include any outlay for members of
Lodges of the City of San Fra.ncieco, or for their wives, widows or children, as
Lodges of this city provide for their own deHtitote and distressed.
The following is a summary of the receipts and disburseme nts of the Board during
the forty years of its e:xistence :Receipts.
1856 -1895.
1896.
Tota.ls.
From City Lodges, .. . ........... .......... $128,872 03
$ 3,182 45
$131,554 48
From other sources,. ........... ........... 210,531 03
10,030 16
220,561 19
Grand totals, ........... .......... $338,903 06
$13,212 61
$352,115 67

Disbursement•.
1856-1895.
Masons of California, ........... .......... $ 47,475 80
Masons of other jurisdiction s, •.•••••••.•• • 126,051 73
Widows and Orphans of California, ••••.•• :. 36,242 15
Widows aud Orphans of other jurisdictions , 97,143 91
Incidental expenses,.... .' • • . • .• • .. . • • .. • • • 31,212 11
Sundries nncle.ssed.. ... • • .. • . • .. • . • • .. • • •
221 70

1896.
$ 1,023 95
3,178 55
1,716 75
4,304 02
1,685 85
668 35

----- ----

Totals.
$ 48,499 75

129,230 28
37,968 90
101,447 93
32,897 96
890 05

Grand tote.le,. ........... ........ ".$838,347 40
$12,577 47
$350,924 87
The following brethren have been buried with Ma.sonic honors, under the direc·
tion of the Boe.rd, since the date of la.et report:1895.
Nov. 3 .. WILLIAM H. WIDMAN, ... of Mariposa,
No. 24, .. Oe.lifomia.
5 .. WILLIAM COUTTS,. ....... of St. Nathalan,
259, .. Scotland.
.. 6 .. JO!ll{ WILHELM Wnrr£B, of Franklin,
" 143, .. Califorina.
••
6 •• TOWNSENDW EBB, • . ••••• • ofLamar,
" 292, •. Missouri.
.. 7 •• FB£DB'K L. HBNDEBSON, of Suisun,
55, .. California.
•• 29 .. WILLIAM w. PBUGB,. ••• of San Joaquin,
19, . . California.
Dec. 26 .. WILLIAM 0 SPRAGUll,. .... of OreBC6nf,,
'' 78, .. Maine.
31. . FBBn£BIOK S CABB, .•••.. of L1J"1ovillB,
134, • . New York,

[Oct. 13,

Proceedim.gs of the

608

1896. l

1896.
Jan. 7 . . HENRY T. BESTOR, •.•••. or Fremont,

No. 843, . . Iowa.
1, . . Rhode Island.
,. 110, . . California.
u 23 .. ELVIN F. MYNOrT, .... . ... of Pajaro,
Feb. 2 . •WALTEB D. WBtTe:, ... .. . or Ohanoellor WaZworth, " 271,. .New York.
3, .• Iowa.
''
Mar. 14.*D&NIRL W. HEWITT, . . •. . of Dubuque,
" 121, .. California.
" 22 . •0LIVKB R. PETTERSON, •. of lt>nic,
.. 176, .. :Minnesota.
.. 26 . •WILLIAH R. DIOKGllSON,.. of Ark,
.. China.
" 29 . . ANnRBw JoHNsON,. .... . of SI. Johm,
18, . . California.
May U . J.urns A. JoHNSOl'!,. ..... of Mountain Shade,
•' 31 .. WILLIAM 0AL1U.N .... .... or Virginia,
" S, . ..Nevada.
3, . Pennsylvania
June 2 .. JACOB DAVIDSON, ........ of V"i.rgin£a,
51, . . Oregon •
July 23 . . BmoN TA.YLOR, .... . ... of OoUage Grove,
l, .. :Michigan.
Aug. 12 .. WILLLUI HIDIPBBEYB, .. . or Zion,
cc 146, .. California.
u 19 . . \VILLI.All T. H U'N'TBR, . •• • of .Abell,
6, • . Scotland.
" 27 . • MANLEY G laWTON, ..... of Gannongal,e and Leith, "
..

• Last a member of.

Iu conclusion, this Board desires to express its thanks to the :Masonio Hall A.eso·

elation for the uee of our rooms; to the Cemetery Association for graves donated ;
and to MeBSrs. Halsted & Oo. for their liberal donations, as well as to the same firm
.
and to such of the city Lodges as have made us the loans referred to.
Aleo, to the Telephone Company for free switching, and for many favors In the
way of employmeut for our wards; to the National Ice Company for free Ice for·
niehed for each Board meeting; and to the several physicians who have given their
services gratnitoosly to our sick and needy.
All which le respectfully sobmiUed.
O. P. OVEBTON, CJhairman.
E. O. BABE, Seuretary.

{ JORN MA.Reus DUlfBMOOR Master •
·
'
ol~nbeclc Lodge, No. 319,. .• • • . • WILLIAM AUGUSTUS HA~L,

CHA.RLEs GOT'l'J'RIED SPR.llNG.
ELBERT TAYLOR PARKE Master ·
'
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, .. . .. .. { JASPER NEWTON PRE~N,
RoUTZAHN.
WILLIS HARSEY
.
.Upon the resignation of Bro. MOORE, Bro. HENRY JosEPH LLOYD wa.s ap·
·
pointed to fill the vacancy.
The present officers of the Board are as follows : SAMUEL PRAGER Presi·
'
dent; GEORGI!: V A.RCOE, Vice-President,· ARTHUR Baoou~.
.a..m..a.N, T reasurer ;
C HARLES W. BLAKE, Secretary.
The receipts of the Board, from the ninth day of October, 1895, to the
fourth day of October, 1896, have been as follows·.
.Appropriation from Grand Lodge. . • . . • • . . . . .
$1,500 00
.&ccount AllBessmentfrom Oity Lodg~:
16
~~:ie~1';i~leto1dgd!6N-!02~2.............. . ; ... $3156
14 24

a. llfc '·

8 uth

.

• •••••.. • ••. . ...••.•

s:118e~Lod::. N:°2~ge, No. 278 . . •.•..•. • • 223 oo

. · " · .. • • .. · • • • · • · · .. • · 74 65
B lie beck u;d
Lodge, No. 319.. .. ... . ........... 86 40

8 o thnG

ou

ate

ge, No. 320.. . ............. . .. 131 84

Total from City Lodges . . ...•. .. . . .. ..

Rece~ved from Ivanhoe Commandery, Ill .... .
Rece~ved from Lodges in California ...•... . ..
Rece~ ved from Lodges in other Jurisdictions . .

Received from J. C. C11nningham loan
Received from all other sources • .'..... : : : : : : :

LOS . .ANGELES.
To the M. •. W. ·.Grand Lodge of Oalifornia :-

SIMON CA.HEN, Master;

Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42,. . . . . . . { SAMUEL PRAGBR,

EDWARD ANTHONY PREUSS.

CHARLES WESLEY BLAKE, Master;
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202,........ { SIDNEY HowARD MooRE,
GEORGE A.RCoE.

v

GEORGE . SINSABAUGH, Master;

Southern California Lodge, No. 278• { .ARTHUR BROOKMAN,

~

$986 29
25 00
78 75
628 00
200 00
40 25
1,958 2g

The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of Los .Angeles presents its report to the fourth day of October, 1896, as follows:By .Article III of the By-La.we, the annual election of officers is held " On
the first meeting succeeding the installation of the officers of the Lodges
represented." Owinp; to the severe illness of one of the Most W orehipful
Masters-elect, and consequent delay in the installation of the officers of that
Lodge, the Board did not choose its officers for the year 1896 until February 2d.
On that date the Masters of the several Lodges reported the following as con·
atituting the Board of Relief for this year, viz. : -

Sunset Lodge, No. 290,.... .... . ..

609

Hi

7 •.• ROBERT H. MOORE, ••. • • • • of St. Johns,

..

Grand Lodge of Oalif0rnia.

JOHN CALVIN CUNNINGHAM.
EDWARD LEE STEl'HENS1 Master;
luvA D RENFRO,
FRA.NX Rolll14AR WILLIS.

Total amonnt received .............. ..

$3,458 29

The Board has disbursed the following amounts : $ 125 65
Overdraft ~eporte~ last year.. . . . . . • . • . • • . • • •
For· the rul.1ef of sick and needy brethren and
w1dowe and orphans of Masons in
$454 15
California
For th,e rel.ief of si~k ·~~d ·~~~d.Y,' b~th;~~ ~';;d
"'.ld<_>ws and orphans of other Jurisdictions... . ••• • ..•..• .. .. • •.. • ••• . . 2789 43
E
xpenses o~ th? Board during the .past year,
~hrch include postage, telegrams, stationery,_ and expenBes for funerals
a.mounting to. the sum of ........... .' 199 78
Total amount diebnreed by the Board as
per warrants numbered 234 to 538
both inclusive . ....... . ......... . . . :

3,442 36

Total... . ......... ... .. . ... . ........ .

$3,568 01

f'1ddonntot hoyerdrawn this year ........... , .. ..
t 18 the loan above reported .•. . . •...•

llO 28
200 00

Makes the total deficit . . ... . .. , .... .. .

$ 310 28

4

610

[Oct. 13,

ProceedingB of the

At the meeting of the Board held August 2d, 1896, the financial condition
of the Board being under oonsideration, Bro. J. c. CUNNINGHAM, of Southern
California Lodge, volunteered the Board a loan of $200, which enabled us to
continue our relief work, although we have been forced to refuse in many
cases where we think that relief should have been extended.
We would also present the following table, compiled from our reports to
the Grand Lodge during the past four years, as showing the increased de·
mands upon the Board, due, largely, to the increase in population : -

1893. ... . ..• • .. •
1894 ••••.•••••••
1895.. . .........
1896 .. • .....•• ••

Relief to
Applicants

Relief to
AP f~~';!n ts
California.

Jurisdictions.

$147 80
744 50
345 50
454 15

$1,255 75
2,053 72
2,271 22
2,789 43

Crom other

Jtxpenses.

Total.

$281 50
317 60
283 11
199 78

$1,685 13
3,115 82
3,310 84
3,442 36

In the year 1894 we made a loan of $400. In 1895 we were permitted to
overdraw to the amount of $125.65, as reported to the Grand Lodge that year.
This year, with a loan of $200, our b·a lance stands at $110.28, making our total
indebtedness at this date $310.28, a.a above reported.
We would also note that in the years above referred to the assessments
upon the Lodge members had been as high as twelve cents per mouth per
member. This year we have rigidly adhered to the amount recommended by
the Grand Lodge.
We are pleased to report that the claim of this Board against Atlanta
Lodge, No. 59, State of Georgia, has been paid in full, to the satisfaction of
all parties interested.
The following brethren have been buried with Masonic honors, under the
direction of the Board, during the pa.st year : C. M. DEVBNDEB.F, Lowell, No. 90, Lowell, Mich.;
ls.ADORE Louis, San Diego, No. 35, San Diego, Cal. ;
JOSHUA HuLL, the founder of Masonry on the Pacific Coaat, late a mem·
ber of Union, No. 58, Sacramento, Cal.;
HENRY LAWSON BRYANT, Lewiston, No. 104, Lewiston, Ill. ;
THOMAS QUAYLE, Grand Haven, No. 139, Grand Haven, Mich.;
Is.A.Ac N. MooM, Milnor, No. 287, Pittsburg, Pa. ;
GEORGE H . BUTLER, late a member of Sincerity, No. 61, Villard, Minn.;
CHARLES TunruD, M. D., Brant, No. 45, Brantford, Ontario.

All which is respectfully submitted.

SAMUEL !'KAGER, President.

C. W. BLAKE, Secretary.
OAKLAND.

To the M.·. W.". Grand Lodge ofOalifomia :Tbe Ma.sonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith respectfully presents a
report of its transactions from October 3, 1895, to October 8, 1896.

1896.]

r

Grand Lodge of OalifO'Ynia.

611

To January, 1896, the Board was constituted as shown in report for 1895
From the first Wednesday in February, 189~, its membership is as follows:~
{ EDw..um HENRY HART Master •
·
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61,..... . • WALTER GRISWOLD ~NUEL S 'W •
JAMES SHAKEBl'B.ARE, Junior' Ward~~.
.
j GILBERT BARBER DANIELS Master·
·
Oakland Lodge, No. 188, ...... · ZACHARY TAYLOR GILPIN, 'Sen. w~.;
GEORGE HENRY SMITH, J unfor Warden.
SAMUEL SWIJ'T, Master ·
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225, . .'... . { Taos. BALDWIN RIP~ CRANDELL, s. w.;
JOHN .Ai.Ex.ANDER C.A.lllCPBELL, Jun. War.

1

{ WILLI.Av WATERMAN NB.AL, Master·
.dlcat
raz,Lodge, No. 244,. · .•. . . HENRY BERNARD SCHINDLER, Sen. War.;
WILLI.AH SUTTON, Junior Warden.
The pres~nt officers, who have been elected to serve until the first
Wednesday in January, 1897, are: EDWARD HENRY HART Chairman·
'
ZACH.ARY TAYLOR GILPIN, Treasurer; Ju.NIA Jos1AH W .ARNE.R, Seoreta.ry.
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from October 3 1895 t 0
'
'
October 7, 1896, inclusive, are as followa : RECEIPTS.

Live Oak Lodge, No. 61
.. • • · • · • .. • · · · " · " .... · · · · · · .. · .$2l9 40
Oakland Lod e No
• 188 . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • • . . • • . . • . 157 65
B Tel ~ ,
57 70
.. ..
225..
No.
ge,
yn
roo
.•••• • ... . . .. " · • · · • • • · ••
Alcatraz Lod e No. 2
44 . .. ..... . .................. . ... 6680
g,
- - - S 501 55
Grand Lodge appropriation 1895, . .
350 00
Refunded by Lodges in Calffornia • ' .. •.. ..• • . .. ...... .
351 i5
Refunded by Lodges in other ju~cll;tl~~:::: : : : : : : . : : : : :
442 75
.Refu~ded by Mt. View Cemetery Association. .. . . •• ......
5 00
Cont~buted by St. Andrew's Society of San Francisco ...•
25 00
Contnbuted by St. Andrew's Society of Oakland. , . . . . .. . .
15 00
Refunded by individual brethren assisted
42 50
Total receipts...... . ........ . .. . , . .. .
$1,733 55
Add balance in treasury October 3, 1895, .....• • : : : : : : : : : :
27 20
Add overdraft at the bank
29 80

············· ····

............ .......... .. .. ......

Total a.mount expended durin't the year .... . ..•••

81,790 55

DISBUB8EMENTS,
For relief of needy and sick brethren and burial
For relief of widows and orphans of deceased b;~th:.~~: : : : :
Expenses for Secretary, stationery, postage, telegraphing, etc

$ 729 00

........ ......... .......

Total disbursements
Deficit at close of the year ..•. . •••••...•. .. ..•.•••.....•

914 40
147 15
$1, 790 55
29 80

Proceed.ings of the

612

[Oct. 13,

This sum of $351. 75, reported as refunded by Lodges in California, was
received as follows:$ 54 00
Corinthian Lodge, No. 9, Marysville.•••.•.• ···.····•·····
10 00
Hiram Lodge, No. 43, El Dorado ..•.••.•....•••.• •·•· .. ·
2 75
Union Lodge, No. 58, Sa.cramento..•••••..• · · •.••• • · · · · · ·
95
00
Petaluma Lodge, No. 77, Petaluma ..•..•... •· ••• •••••···
165 00
Naval Lodge, No. 87, Vallejo •....•.•.... ·•· .. ·••·•···•··
20 00
Marin Lodge, No. 191, San Rafael. ......... • •• ·· .. · .. ·
5 00
Mount Tabor Loqge, No. 124, Cherokee ..... • · .. · • · · · · · • •
$ 351 75·
The sum of $442. 75, reported as refunded by Lodges of other jurisdictions,
was received a.s follows ; $ 253 80
Adelphic Lodge, No. 348, New York City•...• ·······•····
· uo 45
Abraham Lodge, No. 8, Louisville, Ky •.•... ····· · ····•··
10 00
Blanco Lodge, No. 48, Marshfield, Or ....•.. ···:····· · · · ·
63 50
St. John's Lodge, No. 25, Omaha, Neb..••.• ••·•···•·••···
5 00
Tekoa Lodge, Ko. 78, Tekoa, Wash .•. ············•······
$ 442 75
The sum of $1,643.40, reported as didbursed for charity to brethren, their
widows and orphans, was distributed as follows :14 cases from Californie.. .. . .... . ............ • · · .. · .$472 75
1 ca.se from Canada.. • . • • . . . • • •••• • • · · · · · · · · · · • 51 50
" China................. ••·.···· •· ·· · •· 118 75
1 "
5 00
" District of Columbia ............ . · .. · ·
1 "
1 50
1 ...
" England ...•. . .•••.. ·• · •···••••·· · ···
1 ..
" Georgia .. . .•.•••...... ·····••····· ·• 10 00
2 cases " Illinois..•••••.•....•.••••.•... • .... ·• 55 00
" Indiana. . ...•....•.••.. . · .. · · · · · · · · · · 117 40
2
" Ireland. ..•.•.• • ........ · .. ····•··· · • 13 00
2 "
1 case " J a.ma.ica... • . . • . • • • • . • . • • • .•.•.•••••... 15 00
•• Kentucky ..•..•.•••........•..•.•.. •• 110 45
1 "
" Maaaachusetts •..••.•........... ., • · • · 90 00
1 "
1 ,,
" Michigan.. . ......•...........•... ••·· 128 25
1 ..
" Minnesota.....••....•.•.•..... ·•··••• 35 00
2 cases " Nebraska. .•.•..•.•.•..•• · • • · • • · · • • • • • 125 00
2 "
" New Jersey ......................... • 15 00
2 "
" New York ..................... ·· .. . • 197 00
" Ohio ..••••.•••••.... · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · 51 50
2
1 case " Oregon. •..••••••••••. • · • • · · · · · • · · · · · • 15 00
2 ca.aea unidentified. ....................... · · · · · · ·
3 80
1 ca.ae from Virginia •..••.••.. • .....•..... · . . . . . • 12 50
2. ca.aea " W a.ahington. . ..... • • . . . . . . . . .. . • .. . . . 10 00
--$1,643 40

...

During the year covered by this report the fo~owing named brethren have
been buried with Masonic honors, under the auspices of our Board :-

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornw.

613

December 23, DANIEL WEST, of Union Lodge, No. 58, Sacramento, Cal.;
March 19, JOHN' MILLER BALL, of Oroville Lodge, No. 103, Oroville, Cal.;
March 24, Jos~H SERB, of Abraham Lodge, No. 8, Louisville, Ky. ·
Alcatraz Lodge, .No. 244, of this city, ha.a, since our la.st report, signed
our compact a.nd entered into full membership with the other Lodges comprising our Board..
•
•
Owing to stringent times, some of the Lodges belonging to our Board have
been unable during the yea.r to pa.y in time for this report their full year's
a.aseeement.
Not since the organization of our Board until now has it been without at
lea.st a few dollars in its trea.aury. We present to you a report showing an
expenditure of $29.80 more than our total receipts for the year; and, while no
worthy case ha.a failed to receive at lea.et some aid from us, we a.re yet
conscious of having been compelled in many instances to bestow charity with
too scanty a hand, owing to lack of funds. It was the judgment of our
Board at its last meeting that at the coming session of the Grand Lodge at
least $60() should be appropriated for our use during the corning year.
All which is respectfully submitted.
EDWARD H. HART, Chairman.
JUNIA J. WARNER, Secre.tary.
SACRAMENTO.
To the M. ·• W. ·. Grand Lodge of California:The Masonic Board of Relief of Sacramento. respectfully submit the following report for the year ending September 30th, 1896 : At a regular meeting in January, 1896, the Board elected the following
officers : T. B. Rno, President; J. W. HUGHES, Vice- President; W. E. J.
BAUGHMAN, Trea.aurer; CHARLES RIEBEN, Jr., Secretary.
The brethren now constituting this Board are a.a follows :Tehama Lodge,
No. 3 •..•.•• . . . •.•..• W. E. J. BAUGHMAN, Ma.ater;
Washington Lodge, " 20 ................ CHARLES HIESEN, Jr., Ma.ater;
Sacramento Lodge, " 40 .•.••.••..•••..• J. W. HUGHES, Ma.ater;
Union Lodge,
" 58..••••••.•••..•• T. B. REID, Master;
Concord Lodge,
"l17•......•••..•••• A. E. ROBINSON, Master.
RROEIPTS.
Bala.nee, September 30th, 1895.......................... $ 13 36
Appropriation from Grand Lodge . .....•..••••.••...•..• 250 00
Tehama Lodge, No. 3, dues .••••••.••.••..•••........•. 106 80
Washington Lodge, No. 20, duea........................ 63 25
Sacramento Lodge, No. 40, duea ......•..•••..•......... 136 80
Un·ion Lodge, No. 58, duea............................. 143 10
Concord Lodge, No. 117, dues.......................... 75 05
Refunded by California Lodges .......... . .............. 107 00
Refunded by Lodgea in other Jurisdictions............. . 92 00
Refunded by brethren in other Jurisdictions............. 55 00
Refunded by brethren in California.. • • • • • • . • . . . • • • • • . . • • 24 00
Total .•..••...............•..••...••..• ••.....•

$1,066 36

614

1896.J

(Oct. 13,

Proceedings of the

615

DrsBURSE lllBNTS.

DISBURS EMENTS,

Relief of brethren in California ........ ........ ........ $112 60
Relief of brethren in other Jurisdict ions • . . • • • . . . • . . . . . • 378 95
Relief of widows, wives and orphans ........ ........ ... 554 00
For expenses of Secretar y's office. . . . • . • . . . • . . • • • • . . . . . • 7 91
$1,053 46

Receipts........ ........ ........ ........ ........ . .... .
Disbursements ........ ........ ........ ........ ....... .

$1,066 36
1,053 46

$ 12 90
Bala.nee on hand. . . . . . . . . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • •
Cal., was
Auburn,
16,
No.
Lodge,
Eureka
MINBR,
Bro. JoHN MACKLIN
buried with Ma.sonic honors under the auspices of our Boa.rd.
who
The remains of Bro. C. C. CALDER, Santa Monica Lodge, No. 307,
died in our city, were shipped to Santa Monica, Cal.
T. B. REID, President.

Total disbursements .•••••.. ••••...• ••••.••• ...
RECAPITULATION,
On hand October lat, 1895........ ........ ...... .. .... $ 456 96
In broken bank.. . . . • • . • . • . . . . . . . . . • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263 72
Receipts from all sources........ .... : ........ ........ 1,025 15

To the M. •. W. ·. Grand Lodge of Californ ia :Masonio
The undersigned beg leave to present the following report of the
:1896
30th,
er
Septemb
ending
year
the
for
Diego
San
of
Board of Relief
The present Board is constttu ted as follows 1 Master;
San Diego Lodge, No. 35 ...•••.• ••••.. WU.LIAM LEVINGS PIERCE,
Mas~r;
DA...~Y,
EUGENE
.•••••
••••••..
296
"
Lodge,
Silver Gate
South West Lodge, " 283 .••••••• •••••• EDSON A HoBNBEOX, Master.
At the regular meeting in January , 1896, the Board elected the following
Treasur er;
officers: WILLIAM LEVINGS PIERCE, Presiden t; El:rGBNE DANICY,
y.
and JOHN KEEP BLAOll:l!ER, Secretar

RECEIPTS.
On hand October lat, 1895, as per last report. ....... . .. $474 79
17 83
Less error in amount report ed...... ......... .........

$ 456 96
Total on hand.••••••• .•••••.. ..•..•..• ••••••.
From South West Lodge, No. 283, ........ ........ ..... · $ 67 08
94 13
From Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296, ........ ........ .... .
From San .Diego Lodge, No. 35,. ........ ........ ..... . 206 01
367 22
00
From Grand Lodge ••.•••.. ....••.• •..••.•• •• • · · · • · • $250
20 00
From California Lodges ........ ........ ........ ..... .
From outside Lodges ........ ........ ........ ... · •...• 310 93
77 00
From brethren ........ ........ ........ .... ·........ ..
657 93
$1,482 11
263 72
$1,745 83

$ 781 25

=

Total receipts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... $1,745 83
Total disburse ments ........ ........ ........ ..... . .. $ 781 25
Lost by bank failure. .. • .. . . . . . • • • . . . . .. • .. . . . . .. . .. . 263 72

Total ....•••• •..•.•.. ........• ...•••.. . . .....
On hand Septemb er 30th, 1896........ ........ ....... .

H. M. BUTLER, Acting Secretary.
SAN DIEGO.

Total receipts. • ........ ........ ........ ..... .
In broken California National Bank.•.••.• , ..•.... . ....

For relief of California brethren
$ 75 00
For widows of California brethr~~ ••.•.••. •••.••.• .••.
IO 00
•.•..
'
....•
....•...
tion;
Jurisdic
For brethren of otber
447 00
For widows of brethren of other J uris di~~l~~ : : : : : : : ~ : 192 00
For expense of Secretar y's office ........ ........ ..... .
57 25
0

Total . . • • . • . . • • . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . •

All which is respectfully submitte d by

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1,044 97
$ 700 86

The sum of $75.00, reported as expended for relief of California brethren'
was as follows :I case, Washington Lodge, No. 20 .... . ....... . .. . . . .. .
$10 00
: : : IO 00
I " Me. Moriah Lodge, " 44 ........ ........ ..... : : : : : : : : :
" 16 ........ ...•. . .•... .. .. , .... , •••• IO 00
I " Eureka Lodge,
241. . ...•..•• .... . .•.••.• . .. . ..•••• 45 00
"
Lodge,
Ana
I " Santa
$75 00
.
Jurisdic
this
outside
brethren
of
. The sum of $447.00, reported for relief
t1on, was expended as follows ;$ 70 00
2 cases, Iowa .•.•... . ........ ........ ......•. ••••... ........ ....
12
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
,
......
.
05
I case. Oregon . ........ .. . ....
16
15
2 cases. Illinois. . • • • • • . • . . . • . . . . . . • • . . . . • . . • . • • . . . . . . • • . . . .
. 10
00
I case, Vermon t ...•..•. . ........ .....• ,....... ........ ........
35
Lower California . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 40
I
;
I
I

~

::
"
"

::

: 12! ~
: : : : : :. :. .: :. :. :. :. .. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :. :•.·:::::::
:::~~~::::::
• 25
.
.
•
•
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
•
•
.
.
•
.

Missouri
00
00
Montana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • 50
0050
5I07
~:~~~ti~~;

........... :.................................

. ....... ············ ······ ···················· 15 00

. ..
2 cases, Michigan • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • • . . . • . • • • . . . . .
••
I case, Arizona. . ........ ...... .. ..... . ........ . . ........ ... , ..
.•.•.
••.••••.
:
..•.•
•.....•.
•.•••••
........•
.........
Ohio
I "

I 00
1000
$447 00

Proooedings of the

616

- [Oct. 13,

..

The sum of $192.00, report.eel for relief of widows of brethren out~ide this
Jurisdictio n was expended as follows,.•
• .......... ......... $180 00
l case, Mame . · · · · · • · · · · • · · · • • · · · · • · · • • · · • • •
l " Mexico••••..•... ........•.. •..••..•.• .•...•. •··•······ ·· - 12 oo
$192 00
'l'he sum of $20.00, reported as refunded by California Lodges, was re·
ceived as follows :From Mt. Moriah Lodge, No. 44........ ... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $10
10 00
00
From Washington Lodge, " 20 · • · · • • · • • • • • • • • ' ' ' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
$2000
The sum of $310.9:-J, from Lodges outside this Jurisdictio n, was as follows:. .
98
Richard Cole Lodge, N o. 697 • IllmolB
·' • • ' • ..•.. ' . . • • . • • • • . . • . . . • • $847 70
a
t Lodge•
.,omerse
Ashier Lodge,

Obedience Lodge,

'-'--'nl Lodge
0 u~•
Madisonville Lodge,
Telcoa Lodge,
Pioneer Lodge,

" 34• Connecticut ..... • · · · · • • · · " · · · " · · • "
" 33, Nebraska ... ... . ..... • .... •.'.•..... . 215 00
00
" 380, Iowa· • • • · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •
" 226 Lower California. .• ..• ·········• •····· 38 00
'
MW
" 43, Kent~cky .• · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · '· · • · · • •• · 87 55
" 78, W ashmgton. .. . . . . . . .. . • . .. . • . . . . . • . 10 00
" 22, Iowa ••• ••• · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · • · · · • • · · •
$310 93

The within report has been examined by the Board in regular session, and
approved.

W. L. PIERCE, President.

E. T. BLACKMER, Secretary pro tem.
STOCKTO N.
To the M. ·. W. ·.Grand Lodge of Oalifornia :-

W e, the undersigned, present <1fficers of the Masonic Bo~rd of Relie~ of
Stockton, Cal., respectfull y report the following as the financial transaction s
of the Board from October 1st, 1895, to October 10th, 1896 :- .
S
The officers for the present year are : ADELBERT WILLIAlll DAVIDSON, an
7
•
No 19 Chairman. DURRETT oiivEB. CASTLE, of Morning Star, No .
.,oaquin,
.
•
'
68, Treasurer; JAMES HALSTEAD
LINDSLY, of Morning Star, N o. 68 • Secretary.
The receipts of the Board since the last report have been :Balance in hands Treasurer October 1st, 1895 •. · · • • • • •• • • • .$ 48 50
. ti"
Grand Lodge appropna
on .. .... · · • • · • • • • • • • • • • • · • · • · · .. 100 00
dd
Moneys re fun e · :······· •••• ···:···· · ····· ......•..•• • 22565
62 50
Assessments Morning Star, No. 68 •• • · •• · · · · · · • · · • · · · · · • • • 1
"
San Joa.quin, No. 19•. • ...•.•..• · · .. · · • · · · · · • -~
$609 75
Total .... , .... , . , , ... , , . , , . , ' · · • · • • • · · · • • · · • • · • • • .

(

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oaliforuia.

617

The expenditur es for the same time have been ;For relief of widows of other jurisdiction s.. . ••.••.•••. ••. $ 10 00
"
'' brothers of other jurisdictions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 168 55
•"
"
" this· j arisdiction . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . • 142 90
"
"
" widows of this jurisdiction.......•..• , . . . • • • 135 65
" brothers of foreign jurisdiction s . . . . . . • . . . . . 11 30
" telegraphin g, etc.. • • • • . . . . . . . • . . . • • . • . • • . • . . • • . . • • • • 6 35
Balance. . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . • • . . . . . • • • • • 135 00
Balance...•.•.•.. ......•.•. ....••••.. .•...•••• .....•... $135 00
Assessment due from San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19 . • . . . • . . . . 48 00
Against which is due from the Board for care of a brother
of another jurisdiction .••.•• •.•....... .......... .. $120 00
Burial and physician charges of a brother of this jurisdiction 59 00
Balance. • . • • • • • . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • . . • • . . . • .
4 00

$609 75
$183 00

$183 00
Balance after payment of claims .•••••••. ..•........ ..... $ 4 00
The Board has under its care the widow of M. Phelps, formerly of Hiram
Lodge, No. 43, and have ·paid for the relief of herself and family $99.15, included in above account, the which, the Board is informed, Hiram Lodge is
not in condition to repay, and the family will continue a charge, to some extent at least, upon this Board.
The item of $120 in last above table was for the care of a brother of the
jurisdiction of Nebraska, whose Lodge refuses to pay the bills which were
necessarily incurred by this Board, and must be paid by it.
Demands have been increased during the past year over the years preceding,
owing to an influx of strangers seeking employme nt on pv.blic enterprises .
We have been as careful as possible to avoid unworthy claims upon our funds,
and by a small expi;nse incurred in telegraphin g have saved some money and
avoided imposition. We do not think that any application of a worthy
brother has been neglected.
Respectful ly submitted.
A. N. DAVIDSON, Chairman.
JAMES H. LINDSLY, Secretary.

All which reports were ordered to be referred to the Committe e on
Finances.
Bro. GEORGE THoMA.B McCABE presented the following resolution :RO/lolved, That ea.ch Inspector in attendance at the Annual Communication
of the Grand Lodge shall receive the same amount for such attendance as is
allowed the representa tive of the Lodge of which he is a member; provided,
that where he is such representat ive, but one allowance shall be received for
the same attendance .

Which was ordered to be referred to the Committe e on Finance.

618

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 13,

Bro. JAMES WRIGHT A.m>EBSON, from the specie.I commi ttee
to whom
had been referre d the .Addres s of the Gra.nd Master
, presen ted the
followi ng report : To the M. •• W. •• Grand Lodge sf Oalifornia :Your committee, to whom was referred the Address. of the
M.·. W. ·.
Grand Master, would respectfully report that we have give~
thereto careful
'd
t
'
and
recomm
end that the various matters therem alluded to, be
conBl era ion,
distribu ted as follow s:..
That 80 much of the Grand Master's Address as relates to decl81on
~ rendered
by him during the year; the formation of a French Lodge
at ~he ~1ty of Loa
A 1 • the recommendations· for amendments to the Const1tu
t1on of the
G:~:de;.~dge; and the application of Bro. RoB~RT DAY, ~f Fidelity ~odge, ~o.
120 for a dispensation to establish an Enghsh-speakm
g Lodge Ill the city
of Paris, France -be referred to the Committee on Jnrisprndence.
.
That 80 much as relates to charities, and to the several ~ards
of ~lief,
and the Widows' and Orphans' Home, be referred to the Commit
tee on Fmanc~.
That so much as relates to the transfer of the trial of a brother
of Doric
Lodge, No. 216, to Oalifornia Lodge, No. 1, and so much
as relates to the
trial and suspension of the Master of Suisun Lodge, No. 55, be
referred to the
Committee on Grievance.
.
.
.
d t
That 80 much as relates to the formation of new Masonic D1atnc~s
, an o
the reports of Inspectors, be referred to the special committee
to whJCh may be
referred the Report of the Grand Lecturer.
. .
.
. That
mucli as relates to the Ritual of the Fratern ity m
80
this Grand
Jurisdiction, be referred to a special committee as recommended
by the Grand
Master.
That so much as relates to the amendments to By· La:ws of b rdin te
su o
a
Lodges, be referred to the Committee on By·La~s of Lodges.
We recommend that the action of the Grand Master, in re~ereuc
e to the
following matters , be and is hereby approved :.
1. The complaint against the officers and members of Ionu:
Lodge, No.
12
\ . The suspension and subsequent restoration of the Master
of Southwest
Lodge, No. 283.
G
dM t
3. The Blatter of relief to the daughte r of our lamente d Past
ran
as er
TITUS.
f
f $2 000
· 4. The issuance of a warrant on the Grand Treasur er or th
e sum o
•
in favor of the Masonic "Nidows' and Orphans' Home.
f
5 The appoint ment of Bro. WILLIAM FRANK PIERCE, Past
~aster 0
o nd Lodge No. 188 as a Trustee of the Widows' and Orphans
' H~me.
a a
'
' .
. 1 d"
6. The issuance
of vanoua
spec1a
IHpene&t'ions and of dispensations for
the organization of new Lodges at Needles and Long Beach;
and
7, The appointment of Representatives of other Grand Lodges
near the
Grand Lodge of California.
f
·we are gratified in the fact that the relations of. this Grand
L~dge are o a
nature 80 cordial and friendly ; that the returns of our subordi
nate Lodges

kl

1896.]

Grand Lodge of California.

619

have shown so flattering an increase in membe rship; that our
:financial condition, notwith standin g the string:ency of the times, is an improve
ment upon
that reported at our last Annual Communication, and that that
of our snbordinates is generally favorable. We are doubly grateful in view
of the blessing
of beahhfu l condition which bas characterized the Fratern ity
in its Grand and
subordinate membership during the year, and we most cordiall
y unite with
our Grand Master in offering up thanks for all our blessing
s to the Supreme
Grand Ma.ster, the great source " from whom all blessings flow."
We sincerely
unite with him, also, in tribute of respect to the "dear departe
d" of our sister
jurisdictions.
The sentiments expressed by Grand Master PRESTON touchin
g upon the
spirit of loyalty manifested to our excellent fundamental law
and to the enactment of new laws, meet with our most hee.rty approval ; as does
also his utterance regarding: the :final business of our Communication. Like
Hermon's dew,
the blessing greates t of all will always descend upon those who
dwell togethe r
in the bonds of fraterna l love.
Permit us, in concluding this report, to express to yon, and,
with you, to
our M. ·. W. ·.Grand Master, EDWARD MYERS PRESTON, our token
of the great
esteem in which we all bold him, not alone for the zeal and :fidelity
with which
he ha.a at all times labored for the welfare of this Grand Lodge
a.nd for that of
onr noble Fratern ity, but, also, for his constan t exemplification
of those grand
characteristics of noble ma.nbood that have uniformly presente
d him to his
brethre n and to the citizens of this lovely commonwealth a.s
one deserving of
all honor.
Respectfully and fraterna lly submitted.
JAMES WRIGHT ANDERSON,}
THOMAS BENTON GRAY,
.
STANLEY ANDRBw SMITH,
Oommittee.
FRANK AVEB,
Which report was concur red in, a.nd the referen ces therein
recommende d were ordered to be made.
Past Grand Master J.uo:s BAUNTY STEVENS presen ted the
followi ng
resolut ion : -

Resolved, That hereafte r Secretaries of subordi nate Lodges, when
making
. their annual reports to the Grand Secretary, shall be required
"to append to
such report a complete stateme nt of the financial condition of
their respective
Lodges.
Which was ordered to be referre d to the Commi ttee on
Jurispr udence.
The W.·. JACOB VooRBA.NGEB, Grand Orator , deliver ed
the .Annua l
Oration before the Grand Lodge, but owing to illness
he has been
unable to furnish a copy for publicatioi:i.. If receive d,
it will appear
later on.
The Grand Lodge was then called oft' until nine o'clock
to-mor row
momin g.

620

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 14,

~n ~raud ~odge.
MORNING SESSION,

l

Wednesday, October 14th, A. L. 5896. )

The Grand Lodge was called on at nine o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The Grand Master briefly announced that the business of the day
would be the laying of the corner-stone of the Masonic Widows' and
Orphans' Home at Decoto.
The Grand Lodge was then formed in the customary manner, and
proceeded to the street to follow the other Masonic Bodies in the
march to the Oakland ferry.
ORDER OF PROCESSION.
GRAND MARSHAL,
E. PEAlloDY, P. M. California, No. 1.

Ams.
C. L. FIELDi Golden Gate Commandery, No. 16;
W. H.F. TITUS, California Commandery, No. l;
H. A. CLINE, Grand Consistory ;
WEBB N. PEARCE, Oakland;
HENRY BURNER, P. M., Occidental, No. 22.
Band.
GRAND CoMMANDEBY KNIGHTS TEMPLAR,
Escorted by California Commandery, No. 1, San Jose Commandery, No. 10,
Oakland Commandery, No. 11, Golden Gate Commandery, No. 16.
Grand Chapter, R. A M. ;
Grand Council, R. & S. M.;
Grand Consistory, A. & A. S. R.;
Tyler, with drawn Sword;
Four Stewards, with Rode ;
Entered Apprentiaee ;
Fellow Crafts ;
Master Masone ;
Stewards;
Junior Deacons;
Senior Deacons ;
Secretaries ;
Treasurers ;
Ma.sonic Veterans Association ;

1896.]

Grand Lodge of California.

621

THE GRAND LODGE 011' CALD'ORNIA, F. & A. M.,
in the following order :
The Grand Marshal of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.;
The Grand Tyler, with drawn Sword ;
Grand Stewards, with Rode ;
J nnior W ardene ;
Senior W ardene ;
Paet Masters ;
Masters;
The Trustees of Masonic Home;
The Grand Standard Bearer;
The Grand Pureuivant and Grand Organist ;
A Brother bearing a Golden V easel of Corn ;
Two Brothers bearing Silver Vessels of Wine and Oil;
The Grand Ora.tor a.nd Grand Chaplain ;
The Principal Architect, with Toole on velvet Cushion;,
The Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer ;
The Grand Bible Bearer, with Stewards;
Two Brothers, with Tuscan and Composite Orders ;
Three Brothers, with Doric, Ionic and Corinthian Orders;
The Past Junior Grand W ardene ;
The Past Senior Grand Wardens ;
The Past Deputy Grand Masters ;
Past Grand Masters ;
The Grand Wardens ;
The Deputy Grand Master ;
The Master of California Lodge, No. 1, bearing the Book of Constitutions;
The Grand Master, accompanied by the Grand Deacons;
Grand Sword Bearer, with drawn Sword;
Stewards, with Rods.,

At the site a platform had been erected on a lev.il with and sur·
rounding the corner-stone to be laid, sufficiently large to accom·
modate the Grand Officers of the Grand Lodge, the various officebearers of that Body whose duties were connected therewith, the
Masonic choir, and the musicians necessary for the occasion.
The Grand Master was seated in front of the centre of the platform,
immediately accompanied by the Grand Officers and office-bearers of
the Grand Lodge.
Upon a table before him, properly draped, were placed by their
several bearers the Holy Writings, the Book of Constitutions, the
Golden Vessel containing Corn, the two Silver Vessels oontaining
Wine and Oil, the Three Large Lights, the five Orders of Architecture,
the working tools of the Principal Architect, and the Casket containing the deposits to be placed beneath the corner-stone.

622

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 14,

All those for whom seats upon the platform had been provided
having ta.ken their places, e.nd genera.I order e.nd quiet having succeeded, prayer was offered by the V.•. R. •• GEORGE EDWARD WALK,
Grand Che.plain.
The following Ode, adapted to the e.ir of "America.,'' we.s then sung
by the Me.sonic choir, with accompaniment by the band :Hail, Masonry divine I
Glory of ages Ehine
While time shall last I
Where'er thy vot'ries a.re,
Let Love and Peace be there,
Let thy good works compare
With ages past.
Great mission thine belowThis pilgrimage of woe
Thine 'tie to cheer.
With open heart and hand,
Thy sons in every land,
At Charity's demand,
A.re ever near.
As, since the Day of Light,
Blazing with lustre bright,
Thy star hath shone ;
So may its brightness send
Joy, gladness, without end,
Till Eternity attend
And 'Iime be gone.

Bro. CHABLES LEWIS PATTON, President of the Boe.rd of Trustees
of the Home, then addressed the Grand :Master e.nd brethren, e.s follows:MosT WoRSHIPJ!'UL GRAND.. MABTER, BROTHERS AND FRIENDS:We have assembled here to-day to complete the foundation of a building,
which work will mark the highest manifestation of the sublime principles of
Freemasonry.
.
.
Here, upon this spot, in the midst of this beautiful and fertile valley, w1l~
be erected a home for aged and indigent Masone, their widows and orphans,
and here in the time to come, will the orphans of our brethren be supported,
educated and prepared for the battle of life. Here will the Mason's widow
find shelter from the want and misery which claim so mnny for their own,
and here will our own aged and indigent be protected from the chilling neglect
too often the fate of the old.
The magnificent structure here to be established will, in future, stand as a
lasting monument of the practical charity of the Craft. It will convince the

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oal\f'ornia.

623

world that Masonry has a just title to the pre-eminence· it has among the
Orders of the world.
It is unnecessary at this time to enter into a. history of the movement
which has culminated in this successful demonstration. The brethren of the
Craft have full knowledge of all the steps taken by the Board of Trustees
toward building this house.
The foundation having been successfully completed it remains for me to
invite you as Most Worshipful Grand Master to now proceed to the laying of
the corner-stone of this edifice, to the erection of which your labors in the
past as•President of the Board have contributed in a large measure, and for
that purpose I now present you with this implement with which to perform
this work and request that you may retain it as a souvenir of this important
occasion.

At the conclusion of his address, Bro. PATTON, e.s indicated therein,
presented to the Grand Master a. beautiful silver trowel, which he.d
been prepared for the occasion and which bore e.n inscription proper
for its«iommemore.tion.
The Grand Master, the M.·. W.-. EDWABD MYEBS PBESTON responded e.s follows : '
MB. PRESIDENT AND BRETHREN OF THE BoARD OF TRUSTIIBS :In accepting from your hands this beautiful emblem of our Order-an
emblem symbolizing the spreading of the cement of brotherly love and affection..,...! beg to aesure you of my high appreciation of the honor which you
have conferred on me, both by the presentation of this handsomely engraved
trowel, and by inviting me, as Grand Master, to conduct these ceremonies.
I share with you a keen sense of that gratification which we all feel to-day
in being permitted to participate in the laying of the comer-stone of this
Home which we have hoped for and labored for these many years. Thia
trowel, because of its association with these events, will ever be treasured as
the most valued memento of my official career as Grand Master. With it I
shall now proceed to spread the cement which shall unite this comer-stone
~th the mass of the structure which we are about to erect on this magnificent
site, t-0 give practical exemplification of that fraternal love and that unselfish
charity of which it is the emblem.
This Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons and members of the
Masonic Fraternity from every portion of its jurisdiction have aesembled hereto-day to be present at the ceremonies which are to constitute the official beginning of that structure which is to be erected on this spot as a haven of
rest for the aged and toil-worn Mason-an asylum for the destitute widow-•
home for the helplees orphan.
In the beautiful language of our Ritual, we are taught that, "To relieve
the distressed is a duty incumbent on all men, particmlarly on Masons." "To
soothe the unhappy, to sympathize with their misfortunes, to compassionate
their miseries and to restore peace to their troubled minds is the gnat aim we
have in view."

624

Proceetlings of the

[Oct. 14,

1896.J

ourselves, but
In the constru ction of this Masonic Home we build, not for
; not for to-day,
for the destitu te and helples s; not for gain, but for charity
but for the future.
you who are interThis enterpr ise is purely a labor of love, from which
construction and
its
to
ute
contrib
who
those
and
ment,
manage
ested with its
heartfe lt thanks
the
except
reward
nor
maintenance, cau hope for no benefit
its walls rest, suswithin
find
shall
who
d
afflicte
the
of
gs
blessin
and fervent
tenance and a home.
these, depend for
Labors in the cause of afflicted human ity which, like
serve to exemers,
promot
their
of
efforts
their success on the self-sacrificing
plify the nobles t attribu tes of human ity.
has conceived,
No words of mine can add lustre to the fratern al love which
has endowed this benethe skill which has designed and the charity which
are the very inspira ficent underta king. Acts of charity and labors of love
e in their fulfillment.
God-lik
tion of eloquence in their inception. They are
completion and .
early
the
in
lished
accomp
y
speedil
be
M11y such fulfillment
endowment of this Home.•
Grand Lodge will
Mr. Preside nt, in compliance with your invitati on, the
now proceed with the ceremonies.

Gran d Lodge of Oalifo>rnia.

laying the corller-stone of this Home.
govern yourselves accordingly.

625

.
Of this you will t k d
a e ue notice, and

annou nceme nt, after which the
Gra~du;; by the ban~ followed the Treasu
rer, saidaster, addres sing the Grand

Brothe r Grand Treasu rer : It has ever bee th e custom of the Craft, upon
occasions like the presen t to depo si"t wi"th"m na cavity
1 ed at
in the stone Pac
'
.
ta"
. d t h"
t he northea!lt corner of the ed"fi
of the
ials
memor
in
cer
ce,
i
.
peno a w ich
it was erected ; so that if-dur in th la
_fury of the elements,
the violence of man or the slow t e p~e of ages-t he
u certam ravages of time, should lay bare
its foundations an , d .
en urmg record may be found bY succeeding generations
'
d" . d
to bear testimo ny to the untirin g
mg in ustry of the Free and· Accept ed
:'.\lasons. Has such a deposit no w, ubnen
een prepare d ?

i

The Grand Treasu rer respo nded.
.
It has, Most Worshi pful Grand Master and th
va.nous articles of which
it is composed are safely inclosed with"lD e cask ete now
before you.

th

The Grand Maste r then said to the Grand Secre tary-

Mrs. Lottie
After a Tromb one solo, "Star Spang led Banne r," by
n as folWarde
Grand
Se:r:.ior
the
sed
Tobin, the Grand Master addres

Brothe r Grand Secreta ry : you will read the record of the conten ts of
the casket to be deposited.

lows: -

Where upon the Grand S acretary read the list of the conL-nts of
""
the casket, as follows :-

custom among the
Brothe r Senior Grand Warde n : It has been the
ori&l, to assemble
immem
time
from
,
Masons
ed
Accept
and
Free
of
Fratern ity
gs or of such
buildin
public
of
stones
tion
for the purpos e of laying the founda
events or the
public
great
morate
comme
to
d
intende
are
as
res
other structu
those havby
do
to
so
ed
request
when
patriot ic services of great public men,
nia having been inCalifor
llf
St.ate
the
of
Lodge
Grand
The
ity.
author
ing
of this Home, and it
vited by the Board of Trustee s to lay the corner-stone
snch service, it is my
appearing to me to be one of the proper occasions for
ance of that welcome
perform
the
in
me
assist
now
do
will and pleasure that it
Warden, with instruc duty. This you will communicate to the Junior Grand
all others liere presen t,
tions that he thus inform the Craft, that they, and
may be duly notified thereof.

the
The Senio r Grand Warde n comm unicat ed the order to
Grand Warde n, as follow s:-

The Junio
as follows :-

K

Junio r

e of our Most
Brothe r Junior Grand Warde n: It is the will and plea.sur
now assist
do
nia
Califor
of
Lodge
Worshi pful Gra.nd Master that the Grand
to the brethre n,
report
will
you
This
Home.
this
of
stone
cornerthe
in laying
and timely notice of
that they, and all others here aasembled, may have due
order.
his

r Grand Warde n repeat ed the order to the assemblage,

W orshipfnl Grand
Brethre n : It is the will and pleasure of the Most
the ceremony of
with
proceed
now
Master that the Grand Lodge thereof do

A plate engraved setting forth the ob "ect of th e H ome, the Order by which
it was projected, the date of the I . J f th
and the names of
the trustee s and the archite ct of t~1:i:ctur:. corner-stone
lif .
The Constitution of the Grand Lodge' F · & A· M · of Ca orma.
Th fi
F ~ A. M f
Lodge
Grand
the
of
ings
proceed
the
of
volume
e . rst
. o
' ·
.
Ca!iforn1a.
year
t
The_ Addrell6 of Grand Master Preston for the presen
Copies of the proceedings 0 f the Grand Lodge from 1892 to• 1895 · l ·
C
of 189~nc usive.
opy of the proce~ngs of the Grand Chapter, R. A. M.,
f 189~
M
S
&
R
l
Counci
Grand
the
of
Copy of the proceedings
T., of 1896.
Copy of the proceedings of the Grand Comm~de.ry• · ·• o
.
"
Copy of the proceed mgs
of the Grand Consistory A & A S R f 1896
ls9~.
of
Copy of the proce~din~ of the Grand Chapte r,
B!·law s of Masomc Widow s' and Orphan s' Home.
Home F d
List_of subscribers to Masonic Widows' and Orphan s'
un ·
d f
Copies of San Francis co dail
the Oakland Tribun e for
y papers an
October 13, 1896.

,

0. E. s.:

°

the Grand
After the readin g of the list the Grand Maste r said to
.
Trea.sur erBrothe r Grand Treasu rer : y
the casket in the cavity
beneath the corner-stone; and on will now deposit
may the Great Archit ect of the Universe, ill

5

626

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 14,

His wisdom, grant that ages upon ages shall pass a.way ere it a.gain be. seen of
men.
The Grand Treasurer, with the assistance of sundry brethren, then
placed the casket in the cavity prepared in the lower stone, the choir
thereafter singing the following ode : Place we now the corner-stoneTrue and trusty, brothers ownLet us bring with hearts sincere,
Hands to help and voice to cheer.
Prov'd by the Grand Master's hand,
Long may this foundation stand !
May its superstructure rise
In grace and beauty 'neath the skies !
Let us join in songs of praise,
That this structure here we raise ;
Hoping, ages hence 't will prove
How long exists a brother's love I
The Principal Architect then distributed the Working Tools among
the Grand Officer&--giving the Trowel to the Grand Master, the Square
to the Deputy Grand Master, the Level to the Senior Grand Warden,
and the Plumb to the Junior Grand Warden; when all descended to
the stone and placed themselves around it as follows : The Grand
Master at the Ea.st, the Deputy Grand Master at the North, the Senior
Grand Warden at the West, and the Juiiior Grand Warden at the
South. The Grand Master (assisted by some workmen ready for the
purpose) spread the cement upon the lower stone and directed the
upper one to be lowered to its place. This was suspended by a. strong
derrick ; and, at signals given, was lowered at three separate intervals,
the Grand Honors being given by all the assembled brethren at each
stoppage of the stone. When it bad been adjusted in its place, the
Grand Master pointed the cement about its edges, and then, addressing the Deputy Grand Master, saidBrother Deputy Grand Master, what is the jewel of your office T
The Dep'..lty Grand Masler-The Square, Most Worshipful.
The Grand Master-Then you will apply the Square to those portions of
the stone which should be squared.
The Deputy Grand Master applied the Square to the various corners of the stone, and respondedI have obeyed your order, Most Worshipful Grand Master, and find that

in that respect the Craftsmen have done their duty.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornW..

627

The Grand Master then addressed the Senior
sayingGrand Warden,
Brother Senior Grand Warden, what is the jewel of your office ,
The Senior Grand Warden-The Level, Most Worshipful.
.
1 'd~he Grand Master.-You will apply the Level to the stone and see if it be
a1 m a. manner creditable to our Ancient Craft.
The Senior Grand Warden applied the Level to th
f
f
stone, and respondede sur ace o the
I have obeyed your order, Most Worshipful Gra.ncl Master a.nd find
the stone ha.a been well leveled by the Craftsmen.
'
that
~he Grand Master then addressed the Junior Grand w d
saymgar en,

Brother Junior Grand Warden, what is the jewel of your offic ,
e·
TTte Grand MC:-Ster-You will apply the Plumb to the stone a.nd see if it ha.a
been properly a.d3usted.
The Junior Grand Warden-The Plumb, Most Worshipful.

The Junior Grand Warden tried the several sides of the stone with
the Plumb, and responded! have obeyed your order, Most Worshipful Grand Master a.nd find th t
the work of the Craftsmen in that respect has been skillfully p~rformed.
a

The ?rand Master then, giving the stone three blows with his
1 saidGave,
The Craftsmen having fa.ithfnlly and skillfully thus fa.r rf
d h ·
duty, I declare this foundation stone to be well-formed, true, a!: ; : e .
the structure and the statue which is to rest upon it remain throughy t thy
ages a.n eloquent, albeit a. silent, testimony that a great a.nd good
ohu
e
be
f
t
b
·
ma.n as not
en org~ ten Y his countrymen, a.nd that the love of his brethren
has
followed hu~ beyond the grave. Ma.y the lesson of his life a.nd character b
constant gmde to th?se whose .mission it is to extend the spread of use~u~
knowledge,
th
th to practice uncea.smg a.nd u.nostentatioue ch•..;ty
-· , t o do unto
o e~ as ey would that others should do unto them and
to iocul t f
termty a.nd good will among men; a.nd ma.y the entire .:Vork be comp~:~d
the Craftsmen, the artist, a.nd a.ll engaged therein in peace love d h
y
-th
uff ·
.
'
•
, an armony
ey s enng no contention among themselves
except that noble a.nd fraternal one a.s to who ca.n best work a.nd beet agree.

~:i.r

r:·

The Grand Marshal then distributed the Vessels of Corn w·
and Oil
ine,
respeotivel y to the Deputy Grand Master the Senior• Gra
d
Warden, and the Junior Grand Warden.
'
n
':fl1e Deputy Grand Master then poured the Com upon the sto~e
11ay1ng· '

Proceedings of the

628

1896.]

[Oct. 14,

M th Grand .Axchitect of the Universe strengthen a.nd sus ta.in th.e
a.y e .
d in this im o"rtant work ; a.nd ma.y He ever bountiCra.ftsmen while engage f
. h P t to all employed in honest a.nd useful
fully vouchsafe the. Corn o nouns men
toil.

'

The Senior Grand Warden then poured the Wine upon the stone,
eaying-

629

And, when our monument's complete,
Once more ma.y a.ll the brethren meet
Its thought to dedicateTo Country, Virtue, Truth and Love,
To Charity, and, a.ll a.boveTo God, the Good, the Gieat.

The following oration was then delivered by the W. •, Bro. JA.OOB
VooRSANGEB, Grand Ora.tor of the Grand Lodge:-

M the Great Giver of all good enable the Craftsmen in due time to com·
a.y.
ta.1 tr tur • and during their intervals from labor, ma.y
lete this monumen
s uc e '
'
. . .
~hey constantly be blessed with that refreshment of which thIB
wme IS em·
blema.tica.l.

Mm:1T W o&SHIPFUL GB.AND MASTER AND BRETHREN,

LA.DIES AND GENTLEMEN :-

The Junior Grand Warden then p,oured the Oil upon the stone,

Thrice happy· is he whose footsteps led him this day to this favored
spot in the sunny Alameda hills. Thrice happy he who, with us, may witness
this sacred consumm11otion of hopes long deferred, of prayers long nnanswere<if
of wishes long unrealized. We stand on the hilltops o'erlooking our domain,
every foot of which speaks of Faith, Hope and Charity. We stand at the
closed groove, in which is sunk the keystone, noble symbol of patient faith
kept alive by the love of our brethren. We stand aloft, gazing on the rich
valleys of this dear, dear land; we watch the silver lines of the waters beyond;
we watch these kindly faces, beaming wit h pleasure at the fulfillment of this
holy task, and, surely, our fi rst thought is- God is good ; the Master who
steels the a.rm for the sowing time permits us to stand on the threshing floor
and sing our song of praise !
Brethren, this is a. sacred hour. W ell may we tarry to learn its lessons.
T£ere are few such periods in our busy lives. Usually we grapple with
problems that often remain unanswered until we have gone our last journey.
We hanker after power, riches, glory ; we illustrate, in the mighty weakness
of onr reputed strength, the unhallowed selfishneBB of our ambitions and desires. Life is a battlefield strewn with the corpses of unsatisfied ambition,
of wrecked hopes, of defeated schemes ; and in our journey to the beyond we
oft meet the cripples, whose maimed bodies tell the woeful tales of disaster to
the one, conquest to the other. We live to conquer; to reach the goal in the .
mighty race for power and fame; to set our foot on the neck of the vanquished,
This we call success, forgetting that there is a measure with which all are
measured-a. scythe that mows the ranks of men and knows not the difference
between the conqueror and the vanquished. Death is the victor. SucceBB is
but the glimmer of a. moment, a bright presence lighting up our little world
but for a. brief day. We pass on, to make room for others. We descend
into the ocean of oblivion; its waters engulf us, a.nd on the shore stand new
generations, awaiting, wonderingly, th'e time whon they, too, shall follow.
What remains? Faith remains, hope a.bides, a.nd charity, also-and the greatest of these is charity?
Do not think, brethren, that it is my intention to convert this moment of
success into one of extreme melancholy. We a.re indeed happy that our enterprise hath prospered. We are moved to give thanks and praise to all who
have contributed to this lasting monument of Masonry, and thereby havo

eayingMay the blessing of heaven descend upon this a.nd a.11. good works ; ~d
ma.y our loved Fraternity long exist to pour ~orth the Oil of Joy upon t e
hearts of the widowed, the fatherless a.nd the distressed.

The Grand Master then saidMa. the All-bounteou s Author of Creation lend a.id to those who have cony
f
· d
this goodly enterprise · ma.y He protect the
ceived a.nd thus a.r ca.rne
on
' .
d l.
l ed upon this structure from every accident,
an ong pre·
wor~:nf em:h:ypa.triotic purpose which it is destined to subserve ; a.nd ma.y
;:v~:nt ~:us a.11 an ever-bounti~ul supply of the Uorn of Nourishmen t, the
Wine of Refreshmen t, and the Oil of Joy.

Then, addressing the Principal Archi~ect, and directing that the
several Working Toole be replaced in h1111 hands, the Grand Master
said-

Grand Lo<i,ge of Oalifornia.

.

. · l • -chitect . Relym"g upon your skill in our noble a.rt, 1
Brother Prmc1pa AX
'
·
d
w return to you these implements of Operative Masonry: Ma.y t his
un ~r·
no . be oedil accomplishe d; ma.y there be no envy, disco~d, or .confus~on
8
ta.king
~or~en; and ma.y you perform the important dut10s with which
a.~:n;a.!!ebeen charged, not only to the satisfaction of those who have en·
y
ou with their fulfillment, but in such manner a.s shall secure.the
!;:::a.:on of your own conscience and redound to the honor of our ancient
Craft.
1

The Grand Master and ·his Officers then r~turned to their s~ats, while
the choir sang the following ode, accompanie d by the band . Corn, Wine a.nd Oil we've poured upon
Our brethren's hope-tho Corner-ston eThe work is well begun ;
Ma.y Wisdom, Strength a.nd Beauty now
Each with its attributes endow
That which is to be done.

•

630

ProctRAiings of the

[Oct. 14,

ill t ted the promising fact that our natures are not altogether selfish. We
ar:sn::ved to glorify the generouR mother of our Institution, the Grand.Lodge
of California, its wise, good meu, and its women also, who recognize the
·
f M• •onry to the world and we gladly accord them the meed of
services o
'
T
raise they deserve. But this is not the hour for glorification, but f?r ?umi ity ;
!ot for praise of men, but of .the Supreme Grand Master. This is not the
hour to extol our success, but to deliberate the potency of greater effort. For,
brethren, in setting this corner-stone in its socket, the thought grows .on us
that the inmates of the Home that shall here be erected are the v_ery cnpples
who have been shot to pieces on life's battlefield. When we thi:°k of t~em
the flush of success disappears from our countenrmces, for we begm to thmk,
hat we have achieved, but of what we owe them; not of our own
not of w
. ,
th
who have
oor glory, but of the responsibility that life s batt1e puts on em
.
~tayed in the fight to win and prevail Here ar~ to d ';ell ?rphans an~ widows.
The Providence of God might, with unquestioned Justice, .ha;e w~lled that
· es your children should be cherished here. There is, m spite of the
your wiv ,
.
.
t Th
ho
most unselfish humanity, a touch of humiliation m publicsuppor ·
ey w
need it are maimed, the cripples, the helpless., tha fallen.. How much have
we for which to be grateful? How deeply moved to gratitude must we not
be when we come to realize the great privilege vouchsafed us, that ~e may
remove this touch of humiliation from the hearts of all who here will seek
shelter beneath the wing of Masonry?
.
And this inclines me to say to you, brethren, that proba:bly thill very
teaching of humility is the first lesson in Masonic philosophy.. We c_annot
wholly conquer the selfishness of our natures; but we can strive to mfuse
mere into life's battle. If we must war against one another, let us, after
the ~ner of modern warfare, collect the maimed after the battle an~ heal
their wounds. We owe it to ourselves. It is, it should be, an expression. of
our humility, a recognition of the fact that, if the race belongs to the swift,
God ·ves strength to the one and weakness to the other. To me, t~e great
gi f M••onry is and always has been, that it sets forth the relations bebeaut y o
- ~ftn the
• duty man owes to his God and ·
· hbor. Maeonry
his neig
tweenoan~,
G d d
.
1
hes the ideal of Fraternity, and preaches m bold, homespun anguage
~~ea;heory that this warfare of man against man is wrong; .that brotherh~od
. e bl "deal than manhood that amity is nobler than strife, that humamty
isano eri
•
·
d
· h lier than the succe~s of life. Masonry teaches that there IS a e~ocracy
isf o . •t b fore God in which not the mail-clad warrior, but the righteous
o spiris e • e lea.med
•
· fe11ow man, Bhllbe
scholar but the lover of hIS
a
man not the WIS •
'
·
ts 't
rie~t and ruler. In that democracy, as the spirit of Masonry mterpre
i ,
~he classes and divisions of man are as naught in the face of the eternal
•ty that God hath made all men of the ea.me dust, hath endowed the~ all
:~h {he capacity of suffering, and hath ordained for th~m a co~mon d~~tm!,
. eternal rest for their weary frames, eternal light for their beat1~ed spmts m
the lustrous realms above where the Supreme Master of the Umv~rse forever
r sides. That thought of a. common origin and a common destu:iy h~°:1bles
~hEl Mason before the Great Light in the East, but strengthens his spmt to
se: wherein man departs from the great wisdom of the ages. That thought

1896.]

Grand Lodge of California.

631

of the democracy of spirits levels, within Masonry, all classes and conditions.
All are alike before the Supreme-the Master and the Apprentice, he who sits
in the flood of Oriental light and he who gropes in darkness, he who wields
the scepter and he who obeys orders, he who commands and he who toils.
Banded and linked together by the power of that leveling principle, duty receives a different interpretation, There may be a palace for the one and a
hovel for the other; but the denizen of the palace mUJ1t know the fate of him
who dwells in the poor ma.n's hut ; they are responsible to one another, for
Ood has made them alike; they share a common destiny; both live, and both
suffer, and both shall die, and both shall live again. Brethren, we are respon
sible to one another, and unless that link of responsibility holds us together,
Masonry is not worth a thought. Rich and poor, learned and unlearned,
strong and weak, high and low, these are the nomenclatures of life's battles,
representing the victor aud the conquered, the sound in body and the maimed;
we know them not in Masonry; we are a democracy, standing before the
Supreme Grand Master, girt with but one armament, uniform to all, the armament of virtue, of character and of good deeds ! That is our creed. He who
hath a better to offer let him step forward and improve the ideal, which is the
design of God himself. And now, since we a.re thus constituted, with a ,firm
belief in the justice of equality, we render no humiliating service to the
families of our brethren who have departed on their la.st journey-we do but
honor ourselves, we do but justice to ourselves, when we provide this shelter
for them. Charity is kind, but the word charity is not so Ma.sonic as the
word justice l We do justice to our orphans, to our widows, when we remove
them into surrouadings where they may witness the. strength of our teachings ;
it is jUJ1tice to give them shelter, justice to clothe them, justice to educate,
justice to love them ! If I could, I would remove the word charity from our
vocabulary. Faith, Hope and Justice would suit me better . .Justice interprets
the rela.tion.s of man to man according to the design of law ; it imposes
righteous duty, whereas in these modern times the word charity is misconstrued as intending to place the poor and forlorn in the capacity of recipients.who with shamed face give thanks for the munificence that enables them to
live. That is not charity-it is rank injustice. Our charity, our justice, is
not only kind, but it offers to the poor our gratitude for that we are enabled
to demonstrate the strength of our teachings. Our charity, our jUJ1tice, is of
that character that illustrates that all we have is not ours, that all we know
is not for ourselves, that all we a.re able to accomplish is not for our own glory.
In our Masonic democracy, at least a part of our possessions actually belongs
to our brethren, and that is, or should be, the charity without which there is.
neither faith nor hope ! For such charity we need no thanks, for it is the
tithe of the Mason to a God whom he thanks for all his goodness and mercy !
In this spirit, brethren, let us labor on, illustrating to the world the
glorious fact that Masonry weakens and finally eradicates the selfishness of
human nature. We stand on the threshing floor; but the harvest is not yet
complete. .Much remains to be done; much faithful toil is yet to be expended. But the goal is in sight - the beginning of the end has approached.
In our imagination the walls of this glorious monument are raised; in our

I

632

Proceedings of the

'(Oct. 14,

hearts are already resounding the benedictions that here shall fall from praying lips. From whose lips ? From those homeless ones who here shall
find a home ; from those bereaved ones who here shall find their friends ;
-from those fatherless children who here shall recover their parents and
protectors. Ah, brethren, may God be thanked for the impulse that brings
such labor to fruition; may the Master of us all be praised for the seed
planted in these sunny hills ! For the work is unselfish, it is God's work.
Nothing can be compared to such evidence of loving kindness. Men erect
monuments to commemorate or perpetuate various phases of nsefnlness.
Here stands a university, there a chapel, over yonder the arts claim their
asylum and science has her temple. But everywhere man, more or less,
strives for himself and to some degree perpetuates the warfare of mankind
against itself. Here a.lone,-here alone none but the Creator can profit ! Here
alone-here a.lone, brethren, the suspicion of selfishness fades before the
bright star of hope and faith that rises upon these hills. Here the tenderest
sentiments of humanity shall find rich illustration, and the atmosphere shall
not be tainted with the impure motive of every one for himself. Here shall
rise a temple of humanity, and every Mason a priest therein; here shall rise
an altar of love, and its censers swung by grateful women and happy children,
from whose lives we shall have removed the bitterness that prevented them
from seeing the good in man which comes from God. Think yon the labor
is worthy of the illustrious order which claims our allegiance? If so, continue to strengthen our hands. Yon must find the means to prosecute this
great work to its consummation. Your intelligent legislation must devise
permanent provision for the Home to be erected here. Your personal contribution, in money, is needed and desired. For love is a great, good thing;
but starving love, helpless love, motiveless love is little more than a name,
little more than a fancy, which hath a trick of self-deception and in the end
means nothing whatever. Our charity and lov_e are, must be, evidenced in
the material support we shall give this institution. Now that we have begun
in earnest, the consummation rests with you ; on yon the obligation to permit
the workmen no rest until, like the glorious temple of old, it shall rise in
majesty, a lasting monument to the Masonry of California. Brethren, heed
this ad vice. The Ma.son's love is substantial; not theoretical ; his charity is
continuous·, not sporadic ; his affections are tireless, for beneath them all rests,
as a strong and safe basis, his sense of duty that tells him that this work is
right-and that right must live and prosper and succeed.
The consecration of this comer-stone, brethren, emphasizes once more
the Mason's duty to the State and to the Fraternity which honors him
by elevating him to its service. To the State first, not last, for the
Mason's loyalty to the dictates of honor and manhood is but an illustration of that allegiance he owes to his country. Our beloved whQ
here shall find their abiding place will be taught that the Mason's greatest honor consists in serving God and. his country. To make men good
Masons, they must be taught to become good citizens. That humanity that
knows no class nor condition, that sense of equality that looks beneath the artificial divisions of mankind, that cosmopolitanism that is identical with

1896.J

..

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

633

Masonry, these also will be taught to the flock, who from this hallowed spot
may graduate themselves to become leaders of men. Therefore, brethren, our
duty first to California, mother of us all ! Our duty to the noble State, redeemed from Craft ignoble, whose fostering hand raises the manhood of our
children ! Our love to the glorioli.s, sun-kissed land, the cradle of honorable
enterprises and of the Fraternity that makes all men kindred indeed ! Long
may she prevail, the noble mother, proudest and fairest among her sisters,
who compose the holy band of priestesse8 in the temple of liberty, equality
and Fraternity! Beneath the hallowed pennant of the bear, and the greater
flag of America's united sovereignties, may this Ma.sonic enterprise come to
glorious fruition, aud this comer-stone prove as firm as the eternal rocks
'gainst which the storm-laden waves of adversity dash in vain! And now,
all hail to the Grand Lodge of California, mother of noble institutions, protectress of honorable enterprises, sacred teacher of our Masonic manhood!
All hail to the venerable exponent of Masonry in California, beneath whose
protecting hand we are penmtted to consecrate this pile to humanity! In it
the traditions of Masonry live again. Called into life in the days of gold, its
wisdom sought permanence 'midst the coming and going of gold-loving wayfarers, and secured a home for Masonic teachings on the Western shore; its
strength supported its young apprentices until they become Masters, whom
California did and does delight to honor ; and its beauty attracted the noble
youth, whom it taught the grand lessons of ·speculative Masonry. And these
lessons, are they really the esoteric knowledge the world may not know? Two
words constitute both its ritual and its philosophy. To the Mason the Delphic
oracle contained no mystery. Know thyself; That is the sum of our teach-·
ings. Knowing is acting, doing. Therefore we give honor to our Fraternity,
our Grand Lodge, the venerable and worshipful brethren who constitute its
leaders and teachers, for that we are permitted, under Heaven's blessing, to
illustrate our self-knowledge by an act of unselfishness that shall redound not
to our glory, but to the glor.y of Him whom Masons worship-the Supreme
Architect, to whose divine care we commit the designs of our architects, the
labor of our crafts, and the success of this noble enterprise.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, I thank you.

,

The ceremonies were concluded by the singing of" Old Hundred"
by the choir, accompanied by the be.nd e.nd joined in by the whole
assemblage.
•
President PATTON of the Boe.rd of Trustees then invited the people
to the barbecue banquet which he.d been spread by the generous hospitality of Alameda Lodge, No. 167, of Centerville, in the yard adjoining the Decoto school.

•

After a pleasant hour spent at the table, the Grand Officers, with
the escort, returned to the he.11, and the Grand Lodge was called off
until ten o'clock to-morrow morning.
'

634

Procoodinga of the

[Oct. 15,

1896.J

To the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California : -

MORNING SESSION,
}
Thursday, Ocwber 15th, .A. L. 5896.

Your Committee on Correspondence fraternally present herewith their review
of the doings of the Masonic world for the past year, as embraced in the Proceedings of the American Grand Lodges, together with those of thirteen foreign
Grand Jurisdictions.
The f'!.llowing jurisdictions have been reviewed : ALABAMA, .. ........ . for Dec., ... 1895
NEW BBUNSWIOK, .. ... to Sept., . . 1895
ARIZONA, . .•. , . .. .• • .. " Nov., .. 1895
NEW HAMPSHIRE, • . . . . for May, •.. 1896
.ABK.ANsAs, •.. . . . ... . . " Nov., .. 1895
NEW JERSEY,. . .. ..... '' Jan., .. . 1896
BRITISH CoLUMBIA .•.. to June, .. 1896
NEW MEXICO, ........ io Oct., ... 1895
CANADA, • .. .. , . • . . .. for July, . . 1895
NEW SOUTH WALES, .. " July, ... 1895
COLORADO, .... .. .. .. • " Sept., ... 1895
NEW YORK, .......... for June, . . 1896
CONN.B:OTTOUT, ..... . .. to Jan.•• . . 1896
NEW ZEALAND, . . . . . . " Oct, ... . 1895
DELAWAR.&, . . .. . . . .. . for Oct., •. . 1895
NORTH CAROLINA, •... " Jan., . . . 1896
DIST. OF COLUM1!IA, . . to Nov., .. 1895
NORTH DAKOTA, ..... • " June, •. 1896
ENGLAND, ......... .. . " July, • . . 1896
NOVA SCOTIA, .. ... ... " .June, . . 1895
FLORIDA, .. .. . .. ... . . for Jan., .. . 1896
OHIO, .. . ... ... .. . .... " Oct., ... 1895
GEORGIA, . . .. . .•. .. . • " Oct., • . . 1895
OKLAHOMA, .... • ...•. " Feb., . .. 1896
IDAHO,..... . ..... .. .. " Sept., . . 1891)
ONTARIO, CANADA, . . . "
•.. 1895
ILLINOIS, . ... . . .. .. .. . " Oct., , .. 1895
<lR!CGON, .. .. ... .. .. . . to June, . .. 1896
INDIANA, . .. .... .... .. " May, •.. 1896
P.&NNSYLVANIA, .... .. . " Dec., ... 1895
INDIAN TERRITORY, . . . t o Alli{., , .1896
PBINOE ED. ISLAND,.. " June, •.. 1896
lowA, . ... . •. . . . •..... for June, ... 1896
QUEBEC, ..... .. ..... .. for Jan., .. . 1896
IRELAND, .. . . .... .. ... "
• .. 1895
RHOD.& ISLAND .. .. .. . to May, ... 1895
KA.NBAs, •.. ... ..•... . " Feb.,... 1896
SooTLAND, . . . . . • . . . . . " Aug., . .. 1895
KENTUCKY, ..... .. .... " Oct., •. . 1895
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, .. . " April,. .. lliji6
LoUisTANA, .... .... .. " Feb., .. . 1896
SOUTH CABOLINA, • .... for Dec., ... 1895
MAINE, .. . . .. ...... ... " May, ... 1896
SOUTH DAKOTA, ... ... " June, . . 1896
MANITOBA, ... .. . ... .. to June.. . . 1896
TENNESSEE, . . . . . . . . . . .. Jan., . . . 1896
MARYLAND, ... .. . .. .. for Nov., •.. 1895
TExas, ..... .. .. .. .. .. " Dec., ... 1895
MASBAOHUHETTS, . .... to Dec,. . .. 1895
UTAH, .... . ... .. ... . . " Jan., . .. 1896
MIOHIGAN, .. . ... . . . . . forJan., ... 1895
VERMONT, . . .... . . .... " June, • . . 1896
MINNESOTA,. . . . . • . . . . .. Jan., . . . 1896
VIOTORIA, • .. ... .. .. . . " Dec., •.. 1895
MISSISSIPPI, .. ... ..... " Feb., •.. 1896
VIRGINIA, . . .. ..... . .. " Dec., .. . 1895
MIRSOURI, . .. .... .. ... " Oct., .. . 1895
w ASHINGTON, .. .. . . . . " June, ...1896
MONTANA, . . . . . . . . . . " Oct. ... 1895
WEST VIRGINIA,. • . . • • " Nov., . . 1895
NERBASKA, . ..... ..... " June, .. . 1895
WISCONSIN, . . . . .. . . .. " .Tune ... 1896
NEVADA, .. . ... . .. . . . . .. June, ... 1896 . WYOMING, ., . . , .. . . .. " Dec, ... . 1895

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'olook, the Grand Mast.er
presiding.
Afoor mueio by the ohoir, the minut.es of the sessions of Tuesday
and Wednesday were read and approved.
Bro. ANDREW JAOKBON HARE, from the Committee on Credentials,
• reporl;ed the following additional offioere of Lodges and Past Masters
by servioe within this Jurisdiotion, as being present and entitled to
seats, viz : from~·- 0 rui, . .. . • . N o. 38, . • { FREDERICK WILLIAM LUCAS, Past Master;
sa,,...
JORN S&VERIO, Past Master.

Yuba, .... .. .... . No. 39, • ••• ELMER ELLSWORTH STONE, Master.
Sacramento, •. . •• No. 40, • ••• RUFUS BURNHAM HARMON, Past Master.

Mount Moriah.... No. 44, • ..• JOSEPH LIPPMAN, Past Master.

S antaRosa, .. . .. N o. 57•. . { JOHN McGILL LAUGHLIN, Past Master;
HIRAM LEWIS TRIPP, Past Master.

'P'acaviUe, .••••.. No. 134, •• • • WILLIAM HENRY PRICE, Senior Warden.

Woodland, ...•.. . No. 156, • ... Jums THURSTON MARTIN, Master.

·u

i ll!lytn

N

e, .. • • ·.. o.

201

j SELIGMAN GOODMAN, Senior Warden;
' " 1RoBERT JOHN CuRRY, Junior Warden.

Balcers.field, ... • .. No. 224, ..•• HENRY ALEXANDER JABTRO, Past Master.

Solano, .. . ... . . . . No. 229, ..• • ALDEN LEONARD HATHEWAY, Past Master.

Surp1·ise Valley, .. No. 235, . •• • GEORGE CLARK TURNER, Representative.
H ills Ferry, . .. . . No. 236, . ... CHARLES WILLIAM ScHANK, Senior Warden. ·
Pomona, . . . ... .. No. 246, • . . . JOHN ADAM GALLUP, Past Master.
Liberty, .. . . . .. . •• No. 299, .... DENNIS WILEY HERRINGTON, Master and P. M.
Temescal, • . ••.• •• No. 314, .. •• ORLANDO ARTEMUS SMITH, Past Master.

Which report was ooncurred in, and the brethren therein named
were admitted to seats.
The M.·. W.·. EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON, P. G. M., appeared and
took his seat.

635

Bro. WILLIAM ABRAHAM DAVIES, from the Committee on Corre·
spondence, presented the following report, the reading of which was
dispensed with, the members of the Grand Lodge having been furnished with printed oopies thereof :-

~n ~rand ~odgt.

S'l

Grand Lo<ige of Oaliforn:ia.

ALABAMA.

•

The Grand Lodge of Alabama held its seventy.fifth Annual Communication in
the city of Montgomery, December 3d, 1895,-Bro. JAMES A. BILBRO, Deputy ·
Grand Master, presiding, Bro. H. CLAY ARMSTRONG being Grand Secretary.
There were in attendance seven Past Grand Masters, two Past Grand Wardens,
twenty-three representatives of sister jurisdictions, and the representatives of ~38
chartered Lodges.

636

Proceedings of the

[Oct.. 15,

Past Master WM. YATES TITCOMB, the representative of California, was not
reported.
.
·
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
Chaplain.
The Grand Master's attendance was prevented by delayed niilroad trains.
Reports were made by Grand Treasurer and Grand Recorder and referred to
Finance Committee.
Amendments to the Constitution relating to eligibility of Grand Master, reduction of feP.s for degrees and for increase of dues for the purpose of inaugurating a
Masonic Home, were considered and failed of adoption.
The Grand Master, M. ·. W. ·. GEORGE P. HARRISON, having taken his seat in
the East, delivered hie Annual AddreBB.
After a welcome to the brethren and thanks to-the Great Ruler for the blesainge
of the past year he reported his official acts. He reported twenty-nine decisions,
most of which are controlled by the local law of Alabama. In decision No. 6, he
says:(6) That it i~ an established princip.le ?f law, which, ~n 1,DY opinion, e_xtende. to
Masonic jurispruden~e. as well, that .•t 1~ wrong~- do md1rectly anythmg wh1c.h
the law directly proh1lnts. Oar Const1tut1on prohibits. the ~ntmg of any credit
for fees required for initiation, passing or raising._ T? 1mmed1ately loan these fees
to a candidate after having received them from him, if done for. the purp?a~ of extending him credit, or giving him time to pay th~ sa!lle, would, m my opm10n, be
a violation of Section 15, Article 6, of the Const1tut1on.
In which we all do agree.

In No. 25, he says :(25) Held that a Master Mason would violate bis obligation. in knowiniz;ly having illicit intercourse with a Master Mason's dau~hter, even if she was without
chastity, and an attempt to do so would be a Maeomc offence.
The Committee on Jurisprudence made the following report on the decisions of
the Grand Master : Your Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, to whom was referred the decisions

0 [ the M. •. W. ·. Grand Master on queetions of Masonic law, begs leave to report:

That they have bad tha same under consideration, and approve of all of the
eai<I decisions, except the 25th, in wbic~ it i_s held that ~avi1_1g illi.cit i1_1tercourse
with a Master Mason's daughter, who 1e without chastity, is a viulat1on of the
MaRonic obligation.
The question was before this Grand Lodf\'e ~om~ years ago, and _after due con·
eideration it was held that such an act, while it might be a Maeomc offence, was
not a violation of that particular portion of the obligation referred to.
We think that the former decision is correct, and therefore recommend that thEJ
decision of the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master in this respect bo disapproved.
The Grand Lodge refused to concur in the report so far as it referred to decision
No. 25, and the decision of the Grand Master was sustained. We don't understand whether the Grand Lodge considered an Ancient Landmark disturbed by
the Grand Master'a ruling; but at all events we "bold" with the Committee on
Jurisprudence.
Bro. H. CLAY ARMSTRONG, Grand Secretary, after an extended visitation of the
Lodges in the jurisdiction, writes these encouraging words at the close of his
report:From my observations in visiting the vari?ue Lodges, I am impr~saed. that at
no time has there been greater zeal and enthuetasm among the Craft m this State
than exists to-day. A larger number of Lodges are now at work than was ever

1896.J

Grand Ltodge of Ual,iforn.ia.

637

heretofore the case. The moral standard in Masonry is being elevated, and wherever I have visited, the earnest desire seems to be to see how we can best live and
best agree as brethren.
Alabama bas enrolled 383 Lodges, with a membership of 10,225 Master Mason•.
The receipts for the year endin~ November 15, 1895, were $5,419.08; the disbursements, same period, $5,511.73. The Grand Lodge baa a permanent trust fund of
$30,611.05.
The Report on Correspondence is again by the veteran correspondent and Paet
Grand Master, PALMER J. PILLANB, who reviews fifty-six Grand Bodies or Masonic
Legislatures ; gives us an abstract of their doings with his opinions upon the quality
of their work. Bro. PILLANB makes favorable report of the general condition of
the Fraternity throughout the world; he reports a healthy increase of membership
in the records of nearly .all of the juriedictiollll, with a tendency to an improved
condition in the matter of non-affiliation. He sees, however, in the distance, a
cloud of threatening import that may lead to a moat serious disturbance in this
great Fraternity. We quote bis words and commend them as worthy the serious
consideration of those brethren who would "propagate the knowledge of the
Art," by other than the authorized and warranted method, i. e.-"from mouth to
ear:"There has, however, oome to the front a question which we, with some others,
deem of vital importance to the welfare of the Order. The Grand _L odge of
MaBBachueetts, venerable though she be, after great labor in perfecting her rituals,
for the preservation of "m1iformity of work" within her jurisdiction, bas re<luced
the same to paper in cipher. The result was to have been anticipated. There are
now very many copies of this authorized work. in and around Bo:iton, the original
having been unwarrantably ueed for 11;ain. After in •estigation the two brethren implicated w11re ~xpelled. and thii use of any cipher made a Masonic offense. \Vould
1t not, however, have been infinitely better to have locked the stable before the
horse was stolen? These copies of the ritual are still in existence, and thPy contain what had been deolared by Grand Lodge to be the true and proper work. But
whence does this or any other Grand Lodge derive its power to reduce the ritual
to cipher? is a question which should recur to every Mason, even the youngest E.
A., though still in the N. E. corner.
We indeed have always thought that we were bound under nocircumstance.s to
write out the work, lest by any accident in so doing we discover it to others. At
least we were surely so taught at the very threshold of Masonry. This injunction
was oftentimes reiterated io the several degrees we took, lest we should be guilty,
even inadvertently, of this heinous offence. But now we see GrR.nd Lodges authorizi••g this thing. Whence is this power of a Grand Lodge derived? Is it claimed
for these bodies that they have the consciences of the brethren within their keeving?
Can they absolve the brethren? If so, whence their power? We are, unfortunately
perhaps, of those who deny such powel'!I to Grand Lodges.. We thinkthe•e bodies
should themselves do nothing euhversive of the ancient requirements of Masonry,
while they at the same time demand this of their subordinates.
Secrecy and circumspection was our first and fundamental instruction, and
frequ•ntly were we reminded of them, so that we became to esteem them, more·
particularly secrecy, as fundamental landmarks of the Order. b secrecy not?
'£hen who baa the power to do anything that might by any poBBibility, and under
any circumstances, enable others to know any portion of the esoteric work? "It
is not in the power of any man or body of men to make innovations in Masonry."
But is not this putting this arcana of Masonry within the reach of the profane an
innovation in the bo11y of Masonry!
We specially direct the attention of bretbreu who read this introduction to the
review of Maosachusett.a, We~t Virginia, Oregon anti Mississippi, that they may
see for themselves the enormity of the act. We see it stated that the Grand
Mester of Kentucky recogni:iles the right of a Grand Lodge to enact any laws
which it may deem proper, on the score of its supreme sovereiJ1,'Dty. But if this is
so, then France had the right to strike out the pr11n>quieite of a belief in Deity,
nor had she committed a very much -graver Masonic offence than this. Indeed, no
Grand Lodge is of such absolute independence as to alter or change the ancient

Proceedings of the

638

[Oct. 15,

.
f h Od
Grand Lodgeij and authorized Lodges
fundamental reqmrement:
~ e •tr ~~ttered as it is, over the habitable.globe,
are but sgents of the greaf . ra erm
nd ex'tend its principles and usefulness.
to enlarge the number o ~ts mem era !1 •
t to be trifled with by either
The Order itself ·r ests upon immutable prmc1p1es, no
the one or the other.
Under California, Bro. PILLANS review is for the administration .of G.ran.d
ter 0BME from whose address he quotes, a.nd we think concurs with. h1m m
~~as iews ad;erse to the affiliation fee and to our cast iron rule regardmg ~e
~sh~ of a Lodge to expend a portion of its funds for r~freshment pu~poBoses. d ~
I{
• •
f th G d Lodge as manifested m the acts of tt&
ar o
~::t:!~ ~~: es:~~t~ ~or aeM::o:ic Home, and quotes from the excelle:; address.~{
our Grand Orator, NILE!! SEARLS, on "the origin and spread of
asonry, 1 s
religious teachings and its future."
.
Bro. PILLANB gives a kindly notice of our report, and speaking of our views on
perpetual jurisdiction, which he quotes, says :.
h
ted below but nevertheless think that
We fully agree with what e says, as quo
' 1 G and Lodges some rule
it would be well if there could be adopted by t~le sO~~aGra~d
Lodge bolds to per-·
that would ~e ,actedhnpohn tf roughoutft~!;\:c~nt origin yet we ourself entertain
petual jurisd1ct10n, t oug o compara iv
•
grave doubts of its u•efulness.
•
And quotes the following from our report of last year :-

F

6'

And we, of California, are with Kent_uc~y ?n .that questil~ve r:\i~ss!~~::;

to entertain the proposition of v.erp!'tu:~iu;~~~i~:~ f:!t~pwtection and for the

of the Grand Lf~ge,. a:d t~at iti~hl~hits ojurisdiction must be unquestioned.

Our

~r:i':icL::d~~ ~as ~~x~;ci:ed i~~uthority~n {!:ite~e!a~gaif~d.e~:;~bifea~!h!!id
1

t

requisites for adm1ss11Jon to ~odges ;ingothe judgment of ~ sister jurisdiction in
not give cause for o. ence Y que• 10 .
we will al ways insist upon our right
its rejl!ction of material presented todi: :e'and exercise under our Constitution,
to reVIew such ca,es aA are presen e
,
•
the right to correct possible errors.
Perpetual jurisdiction or "perpetual objection," as our Penn~yl~a~ia. brethren
denominate the regulation, is an unai;ithorized aijiiumptio~ of .iu_nsd1ct10~ a; ~:.
it is unnatural and injurio\18 to the Fratermty ; it is no par o
e
masomc as
A
·can system and has no home elsewhere. I t must go, an d we trust by general
co::::t and the adoption of some rule which shall. be observed by all.
Under Louisiana, he says of Bro. J. Q. A. FELLOWS:He might have added AlabaJ?la to his ~ist of Gra~d f~~~h~;~::i:~r;v e; ~h~;.
of a writt~n or. printe~ key kbelfs ?set;~i~~~am~~~'C:immittee on Work (near
wise," to d1esemmate t e wor .·
rn four da ~in advance of Grand Lodge to
forty years old) are the custo~tan~ll m~!te the .lork and teach to those desiring to
compare and refresh mell!on~s, 1 us r
learn during the Commumcat1on.
M.·. w.·. Bro. GEO. PAUL HARBISON was re·elected Grand Master; Bro.
HENBY CLAY ABMSTBONG was re-elected Grand Secretary.
lk
Cb ·
n of C~rrespondence, Past Grand Master PALMER J. P1LLANS, Be nap.
1
Th: ::x~ Annual Communication will be held in the city of Montgomery, December 1, 1896.
ARIZONA.
The Grand Lodge of Arizona held its fourteenth' Annual Communication in the
b 12 1895 -M · W • ltICKMEB NIOKELS FBEDllRICKB,
city of Prescott, N ovem er •
'
·· ' •
E' ht n
TT• w:· GEORGEJ.i.ME!!ROSKBUGE, GrandSecretary.
ig co ran
as
er,
r...
t
.
.
dM
G

0

1896.J

Grand Lodge of California.

639

stituent Lodges were represented, six Past Grand Masters were present to impress
upon the brethren "the dignity and high importance of MBBonry," and fifteen
sister jurisdictions were represented by their Grand Hepresentatives.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer bv the Grand
Chaplain and music by the choir.
After appointing the standing committees the Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. He returned thanks to the Supreme Being for Hie care and protection, and invoked His continued blessings upon their labors. He voiced for all
their gratitude that their official circle had been spared, although ten good and true
brethren had been taken to join the great majority. After a tribute to their memories he advised the setting apart of mourning pages devoted to the record of their'
lives as men and as Masons.
The Grand Master was enabled to report the visitation by him of every one of
the eleven Lodges on his Grand Lodge roll. Thie might not seem a task of unusual merit in many jurisdictions, but in Arizona it means very many hundreds of
miles of weary travel through a country liberally sprinkled with cowaus and ruffians. He says the prosperity of the Lodges keep pace with that of the Territory;
no complaints of financial distress are heard, although a small loss in membership
is reported.
The official transactions of hie office were very light. No decisions of importance were rendered, although the Grand Master seems to have observed a close
supervision over the Masonic doings of hie eleven Lodges, numbering a total of
503 Master Masone.
The Grand Secretary reports the receipt of the following circular, which we
quote here, as the subject is one of deserving interest to Masons individually and
collectively :-·
To all Grand Lodges of Free and Accepted Masons, Grand Chapters of Royal
Arch Masons, Grand Councils of Royal and Select MasterR, and Grand Commanderies of Knights Templar in the United States and Provinces of British
North America:
The undersigned, in behalf of their confreres of the Guild and the Grand
Bodies that, in this behalf, they serve and represent, ask not merely your approval,
but your material aid to secure a complete Masonic library for each juri!ld.iction,
which shall include full sets of printed annual proceedings of all corresponding
jurisdicti .. ns.
The Grand Secretaries and Grand Recorders, with some assistance-most of
which can be secured by volunteers-will undertake the work of supplying a list
of their wants and a catalogue of duplicates on hand available for exchanges. If
the work is systematically and thoroughly done by some central committee, it is believed that the first aim-the compilation of full sets for our Grand Bodies-can
aoon be accomplished, and much done toward building up Masonic libraries in all
jurisdictions.
Where reprints are needed, we believe in most jurisdictions the work will be
undertaken at home, especially when assurance is given that copies will be subscribed for to cover the cost. While in some cases a number of years must be
covered by a reprint, yet the jl'l'eatest part of the work will be accomplished by
the exchange of existing material-transferri ng it from places where it is going to
waste to others where it will be of applicable value.
.
With the central clearing house in charge of an efficient officer, with li•ts of
wants and duplica.tes before him, the work of transfer <Jan he euily and speedily
accomplished. It would be right that each jurisdiction undertake to bear the expense of sending by mail or express, which e•·er would be cheapP.r, that which it
receives. For a short time, while the heaviest of the work is being done, a moderate compensation should be paid to one devoting bis entire time to the work, and
money would he needed for postage, printing, etc. We propose that each Grand
Body be asked to contribute five dul/a?'B towards the general expense of such organization, and that other permanent Masonic Library Associations be admitted to

[Oct. 15,

Proceedings of the

640

• .
d b fits after the Grand Bodies are first served, upon payshare the privileges an ene •
ing the sanh1e amo!lnt,;.,ork has been acco'mplished the pallyment of t':d tb~eich
After t e mam
't
It · therefore fraterna l requea
'b t
annum will ~erve to ca~ry 1 on.G ~BC un~il and Grand Commandery comJr1 u e
Grand Lodge, Grand Chapter, ran, o . .
of which M. ". W." Bro. AMJtS
five dollars to the Mas?nic Collect<ll' 8 4sp~d:;t, and M . ._ w.-. Bro. S. STACKER
W STATON of Brooksv11le, .Ke~tucky, is
S d contributions to the Secretary
'ViLLIAMS of Newark, Ohio, pis SOecretary. deenr
b ·n f
hange or
money or •
either by 1 s 0 eFraternally 'cordially and courteously, f N b ka
,
WM. R . BowEN, o
e ras .
CORNELIUS HEDGES, of Montana.
JoBN N. BELL, ol Oh1<?·
J J MASON of Ontario.
BEN~. W. R~WELL, of Massachusetts.
•
January 15, 1890.
I
rted cash on hand as follows : n
Grand Treasurer MARTIN W. KALESOrepho .,., d $3117 50. total, $5,127.50.
012 20 . ·n Widow and rp ans.run ' '
. '
. d . th Wisconsin relief resoGeneral Fund, $2, · • 1
The Comm~tee on Jurisprudence, after cons1 . ermg e
t
lutions, report :. . . di tion is ready to expend every cen
We believe that every Mason of th~s Juris ~ist our members when sicknea~ or
of Lodge or Grand Lodge fund~ to !'1d tb-d e do not lose sight of nol' repudiate
misfortune overtakes t_bem, and m domg 10
. 1rlduals to our obligations, but stand
a 1 and whom we m•Y find
the aramount duty imposed on us as
read~ to extend a hel_p ing hhand to all ywi!:ioU:iuiv~~aiiy understood, we rec<!m·
thy That our position, owe ver, ma
f
• •
:~~d the adoption by this Grand Lodgf 0 ~he 0 11'f::n~~lf and its constitue.nt
0
Reso/.ved, That the. G~and Lo~ge
ea:hz~dge of Masons to take care of 1'-:
Lodges, believes that .1t l!Jd the du1 of bans in distress wheriiver they may be i
own members and their w1 ow~ a~ or~. f h ll in no case go beyond the actua
'Jll'ovided, that the L_odge ~urn1sh1hng .re detosd a so by the Lodge from which repay·
necessaries without first bemg aut or1ze
o
ment is expected.

d'·

1

'l'he report was concurred in by the Grand Lodge.

.

omP.d b the

attend';;~et~e ;~1v:~oan:R::l~IS M.

The Grand Representatives in
i.uoK,
Grand Master, whose Address wa.s r7~nia:nsa~ i~ a ~~st el~quent manner.
representative of the Gro.~d Lodge o ~th t ~bey had no grievances, and that
The Committee on Grievances repor
a
none had been brought before them.
There is no Report on Cnrres_rndence. l ted Grand Master; v..-. W." GEORGE
M . .. W. '. AltTEMCS LoUDEN Gsow was e ec

JAMJJ:S RosKR.UGlli was re-elected Gra~d:~cr~~:1s GoLDWATEB, Prescott.
Chairman of Corresponden~·
held in the city of Tucson, Novem·
The next Annual Commumcat1on w1
ber 10, 1896.
ARKANSAS.
d its fift "sixth Annual Communication in
Tbe Grand Lodge of Arkansas hel
W . N p RICHMOND, Grand
the city of Little Rock, November 19, 1~5~ .t. . . N~mber of Lodges in the
Mastn ; R... W... AY HEMPSTE~~· ~r~ 421 ~a::· Masons. 385 Lodges were
jurisdiction, 442, with a mem~rs. IP o E' 'ht p t Grand Masters were in attend16
ted t this Commumcat1on.
as
. . .
represen
a
.
f hirt one sister Grand J ur1sd1ct1ons.
a.nee, and the representatives o t
Yt t'
f California was not visible.
'.
.
p t Master A. G HENDERSON, represen a ive o
T: R. '. W. ·• JAC~B HART NEFF represents Arkansas near California.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.

l!f· . ·1i be

Jt .

!

Grand Lodge of California.

1896.]

641

In his Address, the Grand Master reminded the brethren of the rapid flight
of time; of those with them one year ago who had since obeyed the summons
and closed their labors on earth. His view of the condition of the Fraternity
was not encouraging. He said a state of apathy existed, and a lack of interest
was apparent throughout the jurisdiction; the ballot box was not guarded as in the
olden time; too many of their members were Masons in name only, and he appeal.
ingly says : " My brethren, these things ought not to be. We must arouse from
our apathy ; guard well our outer door, and return to the Ancient Landmarks
with full purpose of heart, or, failing in this, the disastrous consequences are not
only apparent, but are appallingly imminent. •Ichabod' will be inscribed on our
altars and Freemasonry will become but as a sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal."
·

He had granted three dispensations for the formation of new Lodges, and arrested the charters of three Lodges for cause.
Of decisions, the Grand Master reported several which are not of Masonic in·
terest, unless maybe to set forth the minimum of Masonic intelligence needed to
sustain a Lodge of Masons in Arkansa!MQuestion. A party residing within the jurisdiction of Lodge A ~titioned
Lodge B for initiation aad was duly elected, but failed to appear for mitiation.
Be afterwards petitioned Lodge C, and, on application to Longe A, that Lodge
waived its jurisdiction in favor of Lodge C, which latter Lodge also elected the
canrlidate, but, failing to hold a meeting at the time designated for that purpose,
the candidate was not initiated, and afterwards petitioned Lodge A for initiation
and was elected. Of which of these three Lodges is the candidate the material?
Question. A brother charged with drunkenness appeared for trial, and by his
counsel demurred to the charges, because no committee bad been appointed to wait
upon and admonish him. 'l'he Worshipful Master &ustained the demurrer and disniissed the charges. Did the Worshipful Master do right?
Quat·ion. Does the fact that a Master Mason who is not in goorl. standing in
his Lodge exclude his daughter's chastity from Masonic protection, the father be·
ing an expelled Mason?
Anawer. It does not. While expulsion deprives a brother of all his rights and
privileges as a Master Mason, it does not, therefore, absolve the brethren from
their obligation, and the brother who violates the chastity of an expelled brother's
daughter, knowing her to be such, is guilty of a violation of his obligation, and
upon proper proof of such offense, should be expelled from his Lodge.
The last decision was not concurred in by the Grand Lodge, During the opening ceremonies the Grand Master was informed of the death of R. '. W. ·• Bro.
JASPER M. PlNNEI.L, Senior Grand Warden, which sad. event occurred at his home
in De Witt the preceding night.
R. ·• W. ·. FAY HDlPBT.BAD, Grand Secretary, reported the names of the emi·
nent dead of sister jurisdictions. Among others, the most eminent brethren
HICKMAN of Montana, GoDFBEY of Ohio, CHADWICK of Oregon, FRIZZELL of Ten·
neesee, and ISAACS of Virginia.
"Death, so called, is a thin1t which make men weep,
And yet a third of life is p11Rsed in aleep.''
The receipts of Grand Lodge for the year were $8,801.20; Grand Lodge ex•
pensea (including salary of Grand Secretary, $1000) 82,651.85.
The chief object of interest with the brethren of Arkansaa is the Masonic
Temple, and they are struggling bravely to place it upon a self-supporting plane.
'rhe amount of $3,!iOO paid for interest was a heavy weight upon the resources of
the past year, but with the steady strong pull they will accomplish it.

6

642

Procee.dings of the

[Oct. 15,

Bro. B. H. MYERS, Grand Orator, delivered an addre88 which received the
thanks of Grand Lodge.
Portions of the work was rehearsed by the Grand Lecturer for information.
As a substitute for all present regulations for "Temple revenue," Grand Lodge
ordered as follows :R esolved, That each subordinate Lodge under the jurisd!ction of this Grand
Lodi;re be and is ~uired to remit to the Gra11:d Secretary dunng each. f!ocal year
$2.00 for every initiation, $1.00 for every passmg and $1.00 for every ra1smg. The
Grand Secretary shall pay the same over to the Grand Treasurer, who shall .hold
the same subject to the orders of the Board of Control of the Temple; provided,
no part of said money shall be used except as a fund to pay the Temple debt.
The representative of the Grand Lodge of l'.llew York, Bro. B. F . ATKINSON,
presented to the Grand Lodge, on behalf of "RO'!J(il SoWm<m Mother Lodge" of
Jerusalem, three gavels made in Jerusalem from olive wood, cut from the Mount
of Olives, which were accepted by the Grand Mast~r, and the following resolution
passed hy Grand Lodge :On motion of Bro. FAY HlwPBTEAD, the thanks of this Grand Lodge were re·
turned to Bro. !A.TT, and to Royal Solo-mun Mother Lodge, ~o. 293, for their hi_ghly
valued and acceptable gift, and the Grand Secretary was directed to commm:ucate
the same in an appropriate letter. This resolution was adopted by an unammous
rising vote.
The Committee on Memorials of the Dead reported a feeling and el@quent
tribute in memory of the deceased Senior Grand Warden, R. ·. W. ·. Bro. J . M.
PnrNKLL, closing with ~hese words :We recommend that the altar and jewels of the Lodges be draped in mourning
for sixty days, that a memorial page in our record, suitably inscribed, be set ap~rt
for Bro. PlNNKLL, one for the deceased Grand Officers of 0th.er jurisdicti?ns. ; also
one for the deceased members of the subordinate Lodges of this Grand J ur1sd1ct1on.
The Committee on Finance recommended and Grand Lodge made the following
appropriations for the ensuing year :Secretary's salary.. ... .. .. .. . . .. ..... .. , ..... .. . . ... . . . .... $1,000 00
Postage. . .. • • • . .. . .. . . . . . • . . . . • . ... . . . . . . . . . . • . . .. . . .. . . • 1!50 00
Grand Treasurer.. . ... . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . • . • . . . . • . . . . . .. . .
50 00
Grand Tyler .. . . . .... ..... . .. .. ...... ....... . . . .. .... ....
50 00
Secretary's office expense.. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . • .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . 100 00
Secretary's premium on bond . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. • •
50 00
Incidento.ls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 00
Rent ....... ..... .. .. .. ....... .. .... ..... . ... . .... ... .... 1,020 00
Mileage and per diem .... . ... . ...... ... . . . . .. . . : . .. . .. .. • 5,000 00
Portions of the work of the several degrees were rehearsed for instruction. In
the course of the rehearsal the Grand Lodge expressed by a decisive vote that a
jewel should be worn by the representative of the Junior Warden in the third de·
gree.
The 442 Lodges in the jurisdiction are classified and apportioned to eighteen
districts, each district being supervised by a District Deputy Grand Master. The
death roll for the year had enrolled the n~mes of 226 brethren.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by Bro. SAM H. DAVIDSON, in
which he reviews the doings of fifty Grand Lodges with his comments upon the
wisdom of their legislation. Bro. DAVIDSON states that, from the exactions of
busine88, he WW! unable to give the paper all the attention that its importance demands. He opens with a tribute to the eminent dead of the year, making due
mention of their faithful and brilliant service, tendering his tribute to the worth of

1896.l

Grand Lo<Uje of Oallf0rnia.

643

brethren who in obeying the call of the messenger left with us the legacy of good
works, generous deeds and names that will shine as the stars in our Masonic
canopies through future years. FBIZZKLL and CoNNKR of Tennessee, D.a.VIDSON of
Georgia, CHADWIOK of Oregon, and the veteran scholarly RICHARD VAUX of
Pennsylvania, are names t o be remembered with reverence and honor by the Free"
masons of America.
Under California, Bro. DAVIDSON reviews the administration of Grand Master
Doctor 0RMK. He terms the addrees a document full of wisdom and concurs in its
special recommendations. He says : "We fully concur in the opinion that Lodges'
after meeting all charitable duties and their obligations to the Granc! Lodge ought
to be allowed to use their funds as they choose." He concurs in Grand Master
• 0KMK's decision&, and notes the death of Grand Masters STKVKNSON and GRITMAN.
Bro. DAVIDSON has also a good word for our Boards of Relief, and compliments
Grand Orator Bro. NILKS SKARLS upon his ellcellent address.
Bro. DAVIDSON protests that he was not pokinir fun at us for our practice of
printing the full names of members; but thinks it saves time and ink and bother;
and that it ie presumption in GEORG& WASHINGTON JKFFKRBON SMITH to object to
his being filed away among the archives as plain Bro. G. SMITH. All right, Bro.
DAVIDSON, when we get entirely out of "burning questions" we'll bring the full
name or names business to the front and argue it.
Bro. DAVIDSON ha11 firm convictions on the evils of the cipher business. On
the saloon question, which is bobbing up so freely lately, be approves the action
of Michigan where the Grand Lodge places the matter entirely under the control
of the subordinate Lodges.
M . ". W.'. A.. G. WASBURNwas elected Grand Master; R.'. W. '. FAr HKMPBTll:AD
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence, Bro. SAM H. DAVIDSON, Evening Shade, Sharp
County.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Little Rock No•
vember 17, 1896.
BRITISH COLUMBIA.
The Grand Lodge of British Columbia held a Special Communication July 28,
1894, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of Christ's Church in the city of
Vancouver,-the R. '. W. ·. LACY R. JOHNSON, Deputy Grand Master, presiding.
An emergent Communication was held November 22, 1894, in the city of
'Victoria, for the consideration of and action upon the revised Constitution. Ten
Lodges were represented. The M. '. W. •• R. B. MoMrmrnm, Grand Master, pre·
aidihg; the V. '. W. '. W. J. QUINLAN being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Due Form.
The report of the Committee on Revision Wal' taken up and read by the Grand
Secretary, clau11e by clause, considered and finally adopted by the Grand Lodge.
It was resolved to print 2000 copies.
On motion, it was
Buowed, That the sympathy of this Grand Lodge in session assembled be ex.
tended to the Grand Lodl!'e of Manitoba at the great loss incurred by thew through
the destruction of their library and utber property by fire, and a telegram be sent
to their Grand Secretary expressive of such sentiments.
The business of the session being accomplished, the Grand Lodge closed,
'rhe twenty.fourth Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge was held in
the city of Vancouver, B. C., June 20, 1895,-the M. ·. W. ·• RoBKRT B. MoM10K·

644

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

Secreta ry. There were
ING Grand Master · the V. •• W. ·. W. J. QUINLAN, Grand
s, the represe ntatives
Warden
Grand
Past
four
,
Masters
G;and
Past
two
p~ent
twenty sister Grand
of
vea
ntati
represe
the
and
,
Lodgei;
ed
of ninetetin charter
ntative of California,
represe
o,
Nanaim
f
Jurisdic tions. B.·. W. •• MARK BATE.o
.
present
not
was
Grand Lodge of British
W. AARON CHALFANT of Point Arena, represe nts the
nia.
Califor
of
Columbia near the Grand Lodge
twenty .two charter ed
The Grand Lodge of British Columbia has enrolled
.
Masons
Master
1,269
of
rship
membe
a
Lodges, with
by the Grand Chap·
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer
s. He extende d a hearty
lain, and the Grand Master read his Annual Addres
blll88ing of the Univer sal '
greetin g to the assembled brethre n and invoked the
labors.
their
of
Master upon the result
harmonious. He says:
Their relation s with other Grand Jurisdi ctions were
of the hour we intuitiv ely
"Turni ng our attentio n then to the special duties
broken column, the absent
glance over our assembly, ana note here and there the
been summo ned to cease
have
interim
the
in
face, the stilled voice of those who
l Lodge beyond where
from labor here and join the great multitu de in that celestia
brethre n, members of
thirteen
of
death
the
d
reporte
He
rest."
at
are
the weary
tion.
jurisdic
the several Lodges in the
In regard to official visitations, he says :every confi~ence that
Thoul{h unable to visit all the Lodges in person, I , have
whose re~rts will be.suball have been cared for b1 the several Gran~ Officers
n I was accompamed and assisted
mitted for your considerat10n. On each occasio
my best thanks ar~ due 1md he~by
by several of the Grand Officers, to whom Lod~e.R
tat1ves at all pomts
tendere d. The reception accorded th~ Grand spmtepresen
of lo;ral~y was every'! here
true
a
whil~
hearty,
and
cordial
once
at
was
out, evmcm g ca!'6 and mtelpresent . The work witnessed was credita ble through
several officers. In every 1~tance the
li~ent appreci ation on the part of the.
ously enterta med.
visitors were thoroughly and at some pomta even sumptu
Repres entativ es to and
the
of
wal
The Grand Master announced the withdra
the action of that Grand
with
nce
accorda
in
ky
Kentuc
of
Lodge
Grand
the
from
Lodge.
No import ant decisions were rendere d.
a Home for the Widow s
The Grand Master earnest ly favors the founding of
ia.
Columb
Britioh
of
n
brethre
d
and Orphan s of the decease
report, in which he reThe Deputy Grand Master made a most interest ing
viewed the condition of the jurisdic tion thoroughly.
Distric t Deputy Grand
Interes ting reports were submit ted from four of the five
tee.
Master s and referred to a special commit
in proceBSion under
On the evening of the second day the Grand Lodge formed
terian Church
Presby
's
Andrew
St.
to
d
marche
l,
Marsha
Grand
the
of
the directio n
in, V. ·. W. ·.
Chapla
Grand
the
by
d
preache
and listened to an el~uent sermon
Bro. JOHN A. LoGAN.
t by the city Lodges at
The Grand Lodge was enterta ined at a grand banque
moat enjoyab le ; the
was
evening
"'l'he
:
oays
r
reporte
the Hotel Vancouver. The
ver, was perVancou
of
Masons
the
by
enterta inment , like everyth ing attemp ted
Host ' had been fully disMine
'
by
d
provide
s
luxurie
the
When
detail.
in
fect
, and toward s the end
cu88ed, a couple of hours were spent in toasting and replying
ted."
augmen
greatly
was
we can safely say fraterna l feeling
Grand Master MARC'os
The Report on Correspondence was present ed by Past
Georgia, Ohio and
except
Lodges
Grand
an
Americ
tl1e
all
reviews
WoLJ!'E, who

1896.J

Gran d Lodge of Oaliforni.a.

645

in the Masonic world
Virginia, and all of the princip al foreign Grand Bodies
Master ORME and
Grand
of
stration
admini
the
of
is
nia
The rev~ew of Califor
the report of the
and
ons
resoluti
sin
Wiscon
the
quotes. liberall y o~ our doings ;
. The review is comCommi ttee on Jurispr udence thereon are quoted in e.rtenso
plimen tary to our Grand Lodge action and to the writer.
ky, Bro. CoMMoNs of
J;Jro. WOLFB quotes fully from Bro. CLARKE of Kentuc
al Jurisdi ction and gives
Indiana , Bro. SooTT of Utah, on the subject of Perpetu
illogical doctrin~ He also
essential a.id in the discussion of that, to us, most
complim enting the author
hile
meanw
report,
lvania
Pennsy
quotes fully from the
wisdom, and to our sur'.
and
g
learnin
c
ou~ good Bro. VAUX, as one full of Masoni
eminen t brother. y 68
prHe does not seem to have learned of the death of that
D VAUX. Penneyl'.
RI<JHAR
Bro.
of
report
last
the
was
h
Bro: WOLFE, th~ thirtiet
whole Fratern ity
the
and
,
kindred
and
family
vama m?urne him as of her own
respond ID sympat hy with her bereavement.
"l'fi_ght came, releasing him from labot,
he slept."
When a hand, as from the darkness, touched him-an d
V. •• w. ·. W. J.
;
Master
Grand
M. ', W. ·. LAOY R. JOHNSON was elected
QUINLAN was re-elected Grand Secreta ry.
o, B. C.
Correspondent, Past Grand Master MARCUS WOLll'E, Nanaim
Communication for the
The. Grand Lo~e of British Oolnmbia held a Special
ber 28, 1895,-M .·. W.·.
Novem
aclr,
Cbilliwh
at
19,
No.
Lodge,
dedication of Ionto
Grand Becretar.y
(acting)
NELSON
C.
W.·.
B.·.
;
LAOEY R. JOHNSON, Grand .Master
·
Also members and visiting brother s present .
Form.
Ample
Grand Lodge opened in
in doe and ancient 008 •
A procession was formed and the ceremonies conduc ted
tom. Grand Lodge closed.
stone of the Methodist
A second special was helcl for the laying of the cornerLAcRY R. JOHNSON, Grand
church at Wellington, December 1', 1895,-M .·. W.·.
ry. Aleo Past Masters and
.Master, V.·. W.·. W. J, QCTNLAN being Grand Secreta
members of five Lodges.
Grand Lodge opened in Ample Form.
cornet band marched to
A. procession was formed and headed by the Wellington
the site of the structur e.
jewel and the ceremonies
Tb~ Grand .Master was presented with a beautiful silver
ancient costom.
with
nce
accorda
in
ed
perform
were
stone
cornerthe
or laymg
Lodge closed.
Grand
n
Chaplai
Grand
the
by
tion
After an address and benedic
city of Nanaimo Jane
Thie Grand Lodge held its .Annoal Communication In the
w. J, QUINLAN bev.·.
;
.Master
Grand
N,
JOHNSO
R.
LAOBY
W.·
~8, 1896,-M.·.
mg Grand Secreta ry.
Lodges ; of these
The Grand Lodge of British Colombia has twenty-two enrolled
membership 1,272. Nam·
eighteen were represented at this Commnnicatioo. Total
bar on death roll of the year, ten,
sed by a District Deputy
The jarisdiction is divided into six districts, each supervi
'
Grand Master.
nce.
attenda
in
were
s
Warden
Foor Past.Grand Masters and two Past Grand
ia's representative
Twelve sister Grand Lodges were represented, Californ
'
B. ·. W. •• MABK BAr:s, not present .

w.-.

•
646

Procudings of the

[Oct. 15,

Britieli Oolombia is represented near oor Grand Lodge by Worshipful AABON
CHALFANT or Ponte. Arenas.
Grand Lodge wa.e opened, and the Mayor, Bro. DAVISON, on belie.If of the citizens
of Naoaimo, welcomed Grand Lodge to the " Black Dia.mood City."
Bro. M. WOLFE, on behalf of the local Lodges, invited Grand Lodge to supper on
Friday evening.
The Grand Master then proceeded to deliver hie aoonal address, opening with a
hearty greeting to the twenty.fifth, the "silver wedding" of the various Lodges that
a quarter of a century ago ooited to form the Sovereign Grand Lodge of British
Colombia. After a retrospective view of the progress and accomplishments of the
organization, be said :Thie le the tweoty·flfth anniversary of oor formation as a Sovereign Grand Lodge.
.A. qoarter of a century has gone wit.h its achievements and eocceesee, with its weak·
oeesee and failures, and it woold be difficult to select a more fitting time to make, so
to speak, a fresh eta.rt in oar Masonic life. Yoo are here, brethren, as the offic~rs
aod reprepeotatlves of almost every Lodge lo oar joriedictioo, aod I would ask yon,
ooe and all, to join with me to·day in solemnly and firmly resolving that each io
hie own Lodge will, from this day forward, aesieted by the Great Architect of the
Universe, try to live more trnly than ever before, as a Mason in the highest aod
broadest eeose of the word ; and that we will do oar utmost to carry out, io ever1
detail, the divine commands which He has laid down for oar goidaoce io the volume
of the sacred law, aod oot only do that, but that we will point out and explain those
laws to the younger members of the ioetitntioo, and MSist them by the daily ex•
ample of our life aod practice. When we do this, we need have oo fear of the oltl·
mate des&ioy of our beloved Ora.ft.
He ea.id death had been with them summoning beooe loved brethren here and
there to the Grand Lodge above.
He made many o:!Hcial visitations and only. regretted that circumstances he could
not control prevented him from seeing them all at home.
Two diepeosatioos for the formation of oew Lodges were granted.
The Deputy Grand .M:a.eter aod three District Deputies made foll reports on the
condition of visft.ed Lodges.
Grand Secretary Qtm!LAN's report was an admirable paper, very foll io detail of
·
the transactions of that most important office,
The receipts for the year were $2100.00, and the disbursements Sl 760.00. Aeeets,
in food, S6,839.4.S.
Grand Lodge formed in procession and proceeded to St. Andrew's Presbyterian
chorcb, where an excellent sermon was preached by the Grand Chaplain, V. •. W.·.
Bro. J. A. LooAN.
The Grand Secretary adds : At ten P. M. the officers and members of Grand
Lodge were royally entertained by the local Lodges at a banquet in the opera house.
The sermon of the V.·. W.·. Ohaplaio iM published in the jooroal. Hie text was from
Eph. 4, 1 : "I therefore beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith
ye are called."
The Report on Oorrespoodeooe is a very foll and complete record of the doings
of sixty-two Grand Lodges of Masons, enriched with desirable statistical information
prepared by the Chairman, Pa.et Grand Master MARCUS WOLFE, who qootee freely
from our best authorities npoo the questions being discossed, thus foroiebiog the
brethren of British Colombia not only the condition of Freemasonry in the United
States at this time, bot ootlioiog its hopes for the future in the eeta.bliehmeot bf a
more powerfol union, avoiding by the enactment of general !awe, which eball be
oniform in their operation, the prevailing friction between jorisdictiooe concernlol{
matters which lead to the estrangement of iodividoals and families of the Fraternity.
Bro. WOLF11's review of California is of the administration of Grand Master JAMES

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oaliforrcia.

647

B. &r11VENS, from whose addreee he quotes freely and gives his opinions and ruling
general concorreoce. He quotes the Grand Ma.eter'e tribute to "oar dead hero "
M.·. ~" WM. 0. BBLOE~1m, and also oar Oommittee on Jurieprodeuce on the repr~.
sentative eyetem. Be gives our report favorable notice, and so.ye in closing hie review:
"The volume of Oaliforola's proceedioge ie a formidable ooe-560 pages-and we
can hardly do it joetice in a cursory review, There are some eminent Masonic
scholars, as evidenced by the various reports of committees, orations, eologieR and
general eopervisioo of the Craft."
M.·. w. ·. ALBX. CHABLBSON was elected Grand Master; v. ·. W.·. w. J. QUilfLAN
wa.e re-elected Grand Secretary.
Committee on Oorrespoodeoce, M.·. W.'. MARCUS WOLl!'ll, Naoaimo, B. o.
The next Aoooal Oommonicatioo will be held in the city of Victoria June 17
•
1897.
CANADA.
T.he ~rand Lodge of Canada, in the province of Ontario, held Special Commumcat1ons for the laying of the corner·etones of public buildings in the town of
Cayuga, September 28, 1894, and in the Vi~ of Napanee, May 16, 1895.
The fortieth Annual Communication was held in the city of Toronto, July 17,
1895,-the Grand Master, M. •. W. ·. W . R. WHITE, Q. C., on the Throne; R. ·. W. ·•
Bro. J. J. MASON being Grand Secretary. Three hundred and fourteen chartered
Lodges .were ~ep_r~n~d. ~ere were present the Grand Representatives of forty.
seven sister JUr1sd1ctione, eight Past Grand Masters and eighteen Past Grand
Wardens.
Our lamented Past Grand Master WILLIAM CALDWELL BELOHllR represented
the Grand Lodge of Canada near the Grand Lodge of California.
The Grand Lodge carries upon the roll the names of three hundred and fifty.
one Lodges, with a membership of 22,805 Master Masons.
Before the opening of Grand Lodge Bro. WARRING Kii:mror Mayor of Toronto
'
wae announced, introduced and presented an address of welco~e.
The Grand Lodge wa.e opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master welcomed the brethren to the fortieth Annual Communication. Among hie official acts he reported the dedication of eight new Ma.sonic
.
halls and the placing of two corner-stones during the year.
He says the subject that has troubled him mostia that of physical qualifications .
he favors a liberal rather than a strict construction of the Constitutional require:
ments ; eays he thinks if a candidate possesses the neceesary mental and moral
que.Iifications, it would be a great hardship if he should be deprived of the benefits
of Masonry because he has some slight physical defect which prevents him from
absolutely, and in the most perfect manner, complying with all the ceremonies of
the work of Grand Lodge.
He writes the following pleasant experience in the discharge of his official
dutiP.S:l have endeavo~, .in eo far as mv other pressing public and private business
vi:ould allow me, to visit nearly every part of the jurisdiction during the past year
either for the pu~poee ()f p~esidiug over Special Communication s of Grand LodgS:
or to attend eoc!al ,l!athenngs of .the brethren in Masonic centres. Everywhere
~v~~ been .received, personally, 10 the heartiest and most hospitable manner and
oh c1 y,. with that respect and loyalty to the office I hold. which has al~ays
'
c aractenzed the Masons of this jurisdiction.

1

•
648

Prooudings of the

[Oct. 15,

A very pleasant feature of some of these gatherings was ~he presen~ of large
numbers of ladies, especially at Kingston, at th~ centenrual .celebration of .the
A.ncient St. John's Lodge ; at London, at the Maa?mc. Convers~ione, and at Wind- .
~or and Pembroke on the occasion of the dedication of their new halls. An
equally noticeable, 'and, to me, a most gratifying f!latnre, wa.s the almost total at,>eence of wines and other intoxicants at these festive gathermgs-.stron~ proof,, if
llUCh were needed, that the Ma~ns may. be ~afely 1-.ft to deal with this question
without the necessity of any arbitrary legislation by Grand Lodges.
The receipts of the Grand Secretary's office for the year ending May 31, 1895,
were $19,710.34; expenditures, same time, $17,288.24.
The funds of Grand Lodge amounted at the 31st May, 1895, to the sum of
$86,575.01, as shown by attached balance sheet; $75,000 is invested in the de~n­
tiires of loan companies, the smallest sum inveeted in any one company being
$5,000, and the highest $15,000.
The Grand Secretary receives a ealary of $1600, with an assistant at $800; the
Grand Treasurer's salary is $200. The payments on account of benevolence were

-~~
The Board of "General Purposes" have a most thorough system for .ascertain·
ing the condition and prospects of their Lodges. The reports of the District Deputies occupy no lees than one hundred and seventy-six pages in the proceedings for
1895.
R. ·• W. ', Bro. GIBBON made a most eloquent report on the fraternal dead.
The Board of General Purposes made an elaborate report of the condition of
Masonry throughout the jurisdic:t'ion. We quote their closing words:We feel grieved that it is impossible to present yon with a complete review
owing to the absence of a couple of the reforts. We have, .how~ver, i1;1 t~e .sh_ort
time allotted to n~. given yo~. a f~ithfu record. of the d_omg~ m our JH!'lsdict10n
during the past year. Our position m the Masonic world 1s still some~hmg to . be
proud of. On the whole, we enjoy a fair measure of prosperity, notwithstandmg
the bard times we are passim~ through. Our Lodges are ruled bY: capaLli; ~nd
enthusiastic brethren• Grand Lodge is ruled over by a brother of eminent ability,_
who can be depended ~n to do everything in his power to keep us i~ the van of
Grand Lodges ·on this continent. It remains for us, one and all, to give th~ world
practical illustrations of t.he teac~ngs. of our .Order, and thus demonstrate !ts usefulness and right to an existence m th18 pract1cal age. It has been truly said b;l' a
learned writer "that it is not what we profesa, but w~at we do, that t,>ears fruit,"
&nd the practical results of Freemasonry a~e best.seen in deed~ of c~anty and acts
of love. May the blesaing of heaven be with us in all _our de!1berations, and may
the spirit of love and kindness be found in all our dealings with ~ne another.
The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand'. Master HENRY ROBERTSON,
and is a careful review of the proceedings of fifty-six American Grand Lodges,
with New South Wales and the Island of Cuba.
Bro. ROBERTSON'S review of California is of the administration of Grand Master
Oro.IE, from whom he quotes freely, and whose paper he terms "an excellent one."
He also quotes our Committee on Jurisprudence and commends their report on the
question of the power of the Master to disabey the instructionR of his Lodge.
Upon "the effect of the loss of an eye " upon a petitioner he is not in harmony
with our committee, because it does not render him "incapable of learning the art."
He also quotes the Committee on "Life Membership" and on the "French Lodge
matter."
Under Mississippi, Bro. RoBERTBON writes this pointed, bat we think inst and
deserved, criticism of the action of Grand Master SPIN KB in airing his "preroga·
tive" upon a late voyage upon the "deep blue sea." He says:For the first time in the history of this Grand J.oodge, the Grand Master exercised his high,prerogative of making a'.Ma11on at sight. His account of tbe trans-

1896.]

Grand Lodge of California.

649

action is given below, and we have only to say that the justification attempted
seems to us to be entirely inadequate. The recipient of the honor may have been
worthy, but he was an utter etr~nger to the Grand Master, and his only voucher
"'.as equally unknown. f:?omethrng more was surely necessary to justify the exercise of a power so rarely mvoked.
From the following, under Squth Carolina, the "Perfect Youth" doctrine still
lives. Bro. RoBERTSON says :The physical J>erfectionist doctrine seems to be carried to an absurd length
w:he!1 '."'!' fi_nd the Grand ¥aster ruling that the loss of a toe by a candidate after
his imtiat!on prevents him fr'?m any further advance in Masonry. Thi• ruling
was madA m answer to an el!qmry, and was not passed upon by any committee or
by the Grand Lodge. It is to be hoped that his sncceBBOr will have liberality
enough to reverse it.
'If.·. W. '. W. R. WHITE, Q. C., was re-elected Grapd Master; R. ', W. ', J. J.
MABON was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence, Past Grand Master HENRY RoBERTBON, Colling-

wood.

•

The next Annual Communication will be held at Bellville, July 15, 1896.
COLORADO.

The Gra~ Lodge of Colorado held its thirty-fifth Annual Communication in
the city of Denver on the 3d Tuesday of September, 1895,-M. ', W, •.WILLIAM
L. BUBH, Grand Master; R.'. w.·. ED. c. PARMELEE, Grand Secretary.
Special Communications were held during the year as follows: At Cripple
Creek, December 'Zl, 1894, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of the new
Masonic Temple; at Boulder, March 12, 1895, for the purpose of laying the cornerstone of the new Masonic Temple at that place; and at.Florence, J nly 30, 1895, for
the laying of the corner-stone of a new Public School building.
The Grand Lodge has enrolled eighty-seven Lodges, with a membership of
seven thousand Master Masons.
Eighty-three Lodges were represented at the annual meeting. There were in
attendance seventeen Paet Grand Masters and the representatives of thirty-four
sister Grand Lodges.
Past Grand M11ster JAMES H. PEABODY is the Representative of this Grand
Lodl(e near the Grand Lodge of Colorado, and was present.
The Grand Lodge waR opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Representatives of other Grand Lodges near this Grand Lodge were called
to the East and fraternally welcomed by the Grand Master. Past Grand Master
HENRY M. TELLER, who is U. S. Senator from Colorado, responded to the welcome
in an eloquent and instructive speech.
The Grand Master commenced his address with thanks to the Giver of All for
his gniJance and protection ; he reminded the brethren of their prosperity and
progresa during thirty-five years of their existence; that since their organization as
a Grand Lodge bands of hostile Indians were encamped within a few miles of the
great city in which they were now in sesaion. He reported that while no officer of
the Grand Lodge had been summoned during the year, yet loved and honored
brethren who~e absence was marked to-day had since their last nnnn11l meeting
passed to eternal rest. M ... w ... Bro. JOHN MILTON CHIVINGTON, their first
Grand Master, obeyed the summons October 4, 1894, and was buried by his beloved ~rand Lodge. The "taking off" of the Master and Junior Warden of
Central Lodge, No. 61 who were in Denver for the purpose of paying the last sad

650

Procee<Jings of the

[Oct. 15,

tribute to one of their U:embere who had died in the city, and was buried at that
time, was a mournful event, and the circumstances most distreBSing. The brethren
delayed their return home until the following momin~, and w~re guests a~ the
Gumry Hotel, which building was wrecklld by the explosion of boilers that mgbt,
and both were killed. The Grand Master also reported the unusual number of
eminent brethren of sister jurisdictions whose departure for the bett.er lai;id had
been announced, and recommended the appointment of a committee to prepare a
suitable expression of the Grand Lodge thereon. The Grand Master gave a
tailed report of his official acts, from which it is very plain that hie was a workmg
administration ; he placed comer-stones, constituted Lodges, purchased and sol~
property, and seemed to be always on hand when officially wanted. Among his
decisions he reports this :-

?e-

Question. Can an Entered Apprentice, who bas lost bis right hand at the wrist,
in a railroad wreck, receive the remaining degrees?
Answer. No. See Grand Lodge By-Law, No. 74.
.
He afterwards says, referring to Decision No. 4, which was made to conform
to Grand Lodge By-Law No. 74: "I do not believe it right or just. The By-Law
provides that no Lodge shall confer any degree upon a candidate unless he be ~
perfect man, etc. Requiring a candidate for initiation to be a perfec~ man physically, is right in my opinion, but when a candidate has received one or more degrees, and, through no fault of hie, is maimed by an accident, there should be no
law to prevent his going on and receiving full light in Masonry. The Lodge sho~ld
be allowed to carry out its part of the contract. I would recommend the 1nod1fication of By-Law No. 74 eo that it can be done. "
Of the representative system, be thinks, if faults exist it is with the representatives rather than with the system.
He JlUbmits the Wisconain resolution in reference to Masonic relief without
comment.
By-Law No. 74 was amended in accord with the vie.w s expressed by the Grand
Master, so that the maimed Entered Apprentice is no longer debarred from advancement.
The Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand Master's Jewel.
Past Grand Master LAWRENCE N . GREENLEAF again presents the Report on
Correspondence, in which he r eviews the doings of fifty-eight Grand Lodges, giving
the meat of their transactions with bis comments upon such as he deems of e88ential importance. Bro. GREENLEAF combines with bis. r.eport a digest. of decisions
compiled from the proceedings. Many of these ~ecis10ne, althou~h important as
information are only applicable so far as they are m accordance with the local law
of the juris'aiction ; but as more light in Masonry is the great desire of the ~ra­
ternity, it is well to see that they lack not for information to make darkneBBB hght
before them ·and crooked things straight, and Bro. GREENLEAF'B able paper represents bis full share in the discharge of that duty.
Bro. GREENLEAF'B notice of California. is for the action of Grand Lodge d\lring
the admini•tration of Grand Master ORME. He concurs with the Grand Master
evidently in hie appeal for a more liberal affiliation la.:W, or ra.ther th? a~olition of
the affiliation fee and that additional attention be given t o the cultivation of the
socia.l features of Masonry. Upon this subject, Bro. GREENLEAF writes: " Thie
question bas caused no end of discussion and controversy in our sister jurisdictions
for years. The Lodges in our own (Colorado) jurisdiction have never been placed
under restrictions as to the disposal of their funds, and there has never been cause
for complaint, nor any neglect in the bestowal of relief."

1896.]

Grand Lodge of VaUfornia.

651

He t.erms the oration of Bro. NILES SEARLS a scholarlY, one, and makes sympathetic a.llusion to the "calling home" of our two Past Gra.nd Masters, STEVEN·
SON a.nd GRITMAN,
Bro. GREENLEAF quotes from the reports of our Committee on Jurisprudence,
on the proposed Grand Lodge of Wisconsin uniform relief regulation, and upon
the "MiBBissippi uniform rules," and, a.lthough be does not sa.y so, we think he
concurs in the judgment. In his conc\usjon, referring to the proposal of the Grand
Lodge of !lolorado in rega.rd to the Washington Memorial Observance, Bro. GREENLEAF says: The following Grand Lodges have taken favorable action: Alabama.
Arizona, Delaware, District of Columbia, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota., Mississippi, Nebraska, New York, North Dakota., Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and
West Virginia-25. We have stricken off Indian Territory from the list, placed
there last year under tho impression that favorable action ha.d been taken. It a.nd
New Ha.mpshire voted to take no action ; Georgia has taken conditional action ;
Missouri has deferred action; Kentucky has referred the matter to the Committe&
on Necrology, and Pennsylvania opposes it in toto. Others have not yet reported.
From present indications neither the MiBBissippi uniform rules or the Wisconsin
plan for Masonic relief will receive general endorsement.
M. •• W. ', WM. D. PIEROE was elected Grand Master; R . ', W. ', ED. C•.
PARMELEE was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Ohairma.n of Correspondenoe, Past Grand Master LAWRENCE N. GREENLEAF,,
Denver.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Denver, Septem-.
ber 15, 1896.
CONNECTICUT.
An Emergent Communication of the Grnnd Lodge of Connecticut was held at.
Wallingford, September 25, 1895, for the purpose of dedioating the Masonic Home
and Orphanage.
The officers of the Grand Lodge were all present, with about five hundred
brethren representing nea.rly every Lodge in the State.
Gra.nd Lodge opened in Ample Form, formed in procession, and under the escort of the Grand Commandery marched to the H ome and Orphanage. After
prayer by the Grand Chaplain an addre88 of welcome was delivered by Grand
M~ter HENRY 0. WARNER, from which we quote a few words. He ea.id:On behalf of the Freemasons in Connecticut it becomes my most pleasing duty

to extend a hearty welcome to all who honor us with their presence to-day. We

have as-ambled for the purpose of dedicating to benevolent uses these edifices
which have been procured and fitted up at no little expense, as the Masonic home
of aged, infirm and indigent brethren and widows, and as an a11ylum for the maintenance and education of their homeless orphans. • ~ •
This home aml these broad acres of homestead are the realization and witneBB
of Charitv, F aith and H ope, which ha.ve inspired, strengthened and encouraged
the !~st class I have mentioned. Not by words, by works ye know them. • • •
Twenty-two years of unwavering faith, cheerful hope and self.denial have re·
suited in this inspiring object lesson of God like charity.
•
*
*
Again, the raising of the flag of our country this day is also another impressive object in Freemasonry. It teaches us the duty of love of our country, loyalty
to its interests and obedience to its law. * • *
After appropriate music the request for dedication was ma.de by the Deputy
Grand Master. The architect reported the completion of bis work. The Grand
MMter accepted from the architect the return of the implementH used in the erection of the building. The Grand Chaplain delivered the consecration p~~yer, and

652

Proceedings of the

1896.]

[Oct. 15,

'fhere is one subject further to which your attention is called in considering
the development of Freamasonry-a subject which has been most deeply impress~d
upon my mind in the discharge of my official duties as President of the Masomc
Charity foundation. I refer to the relations of the. mothers, . wives, widows,
sisters and daughters of Free Masons to the Craft. It is popular ID some quarters
to decry the formation of societies by them having any reference to the Craft. No
Mason will deny that by his most solemn obligations they stand in special relation
to him and are entitled to his assistance and protection.
It follows that it would be wise that sure proof should be proyided by which
they may with certainty be able to claim and prove themselves entitled to such assistance and protection. The Craft has made no such provision. . The e'.'igencies
of the early days did not require it. Masone were few and their relations well
known. Now all this is changed.

"It is a good rule in rell'ard to everything to inquire, ascertain and possess
some degree of knowledge before we adjudge a case. Our institution originally
was probably founded by males who were operative mechanics, in whose rnAChanical pu~uite females were physically and naturally unfitted to take part. Hence,
and not on account of mental endowment, physical prerequisites, free birth,
mental or moral qualifications, females were excluded. But shall we say that the
Free Masone Lodge is an unfit place on any other account than that for female
morale, female purity or female piety? ·Never. The ancients _Provided for .t~eir
parti~ipation in all the benefits of the institution but those particularly pertammg
to membership.
"And they bound every member of it to award on proper demand to all worthy
Masonic mothers, sisters, daughters, wives and widows peculiar immunities and
benefits, but they fail to provide them with the means of m•king tbemeel vee
known as such. These degree! supply the omiseions; and do that only. except
giving moral instruction and conveying religious ideas, such as Masonry everywhere gives and conveys. and also such knowledge of real Masonry as the Monitors
universally afford to the uninitiated in the really ancient systems. That is all

653

"Whatever may be said, the Masonic Clja.rity Foundation of Connecticut will
never forget the words of sympathy and good cheer, the generous and noble deeds
and the substantial gifts of the Order of the Ea.stern Star, whose worthy officers
are among our most welcome guests to·day. With their ability acquired by organization, the kindly sympathy of their nature, their peculiar powers of makmg a home
a trae haven of peacefal rest and of developing and guiding the mind and affection of the young, this Order will find its greatest miseion and most eatisfyirui:
happinese in making this home trull'_ the home of the distressed and the bereaved.
"We can establish a Masonic Poor House, but not a Masonic Home without
the tender sympathy and the genial and elevating influences of woman. * * "
"Brethren of Connecticut: The faithful prayer of your Grand Chaplain,
which ascended to heaven nearly a century ago, has been answered. The anRwer
is before you. Our Masonic Home has been established. Our brethren and sisters
are even now with us rejoicing in their homes. This home is this day committed
to us as a sacred trust. It stands completed and without debt. Our work is not
yet finished. Its sapport rests upon us-shall we be faithful to this truei? Let no
brother say it cannot be done. Let not the magnitude of the work appall. Let
each do as he is able, not grudgingly nor of neceseity.
" 'Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and
*
*
*
*
glorify (not you), but your Father which is in heaven."'

with corn, wine and oil, the Grand Master and his W ardena solemnly dedicated
the Connecticut Masonic Home to the purpoaes for which it had been erectedthe relief of the aged and infirm brother, the protection of the widow and the snpport and education of the orphan,
After the invocation by the Grand Chaplain the President, Past Grand Master
Luo A. LocKwooo, delivered the chief address of the day, in the course of which
he pays the following handsome compliment to the loyal women of Connecticut,
whose willing hands had been always ready to assist them in their R!Jlat work.
In his conclusion, Bro. Loo,irwooo said :-

Doubtlese the providing of these modes of recognition are beyond and outside
of the purview of Freemasonry. It does not require that they shall be made
Masons, which of course would be an impossibility. It surely would be wise in
providing thes11 proofs. of relationship to the Craft to surround them with the inculcation and enforcement by precept and example of those virtues which.ought
especially to characterize woman in addition to the virtues which ought to dis- ·
tinguish Free Masone. Such a system would conflict with no landmark, and would
be in accordance with the spirit and genius of Freemasonry. Thie can be, and indeed
it has been already, accomplished by those ladies themselves. Neither is thi9 any
new thing, for "from the time the memory of man runneth not to the contrary "
there have been adrogyne degrees, called side degrees, of Masonry, to which they
were admitted.
But this was not efficient or general, and there was an entire abeence of organization. Within the last qu&rter of a century such an order of these ladies has
been organized and made effective for great good. Lest it be thought novel and
un-masonic or a personal idioeyncracy, let me quote an able writer on the subject
of these side degrees, who said nearly half a century ago : -

Grand Lodge of California.

After the benediction a beautiful American flag was presented, accepted and
given to the breeze with appropriate music and accompanying ceremonies. The
flag was raised upon the staff by members of the Home, and the exercises were
closed with singing of the "Star Spangled Banner" by the audience accompanied
by the band.
An Emergent Communication was also held at Lakeville, December 27, 18951
for the purpose of dedicating the new hall of Mont(/07M1'11 Lodge, No. 13.

..

,

The one hundred and eighth Annual Communication was held in the city of
Hartford, January 15, 1896,-M.·. w.·. HENRY 0. WARNER, Grand Master;
B. •. W. •••ToHN H. BARLOW, Grand Seoretary. One hundred and ten of the one
hundred and eleven constituent Lodges were represented. Thirteen Past Grand
Masters were in attendance with the representatives of twenty-eight sister Grand
Jurisdictions.
The affiliated Master Masons of Connecticut number 16,632. The names in1cribfld upon the death roll of 1895 number 278.
The portrait of Rev. AsHABEL BALDWIN, Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge
of Connecticut in 1797, is published upon the opening page of this volume and
adds much io its interest.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap.
lain;
Grand Master WARNER opened hie Addrese by calling the attention of the
brethren of the Grand l..odge to those of their aseociates who had been called from
labor since their last annual aseemhly, as also to the many illustrious brethren of
siater jurisdictions who had passed to eternal rest.
The Grand Master reports the condition of ihe Lodges as satisfactory, and
oomplimentl! the District Deputies with having faithfully discharged their duties,
He granted the usual number of dispensations for divers and sundry reasons. He
reported the dedication of the Masonic Home, of which we have given a short account in our report of the Emerient Communication of September 25, 1895. He
reports no decisions.
The Committee on Memorial, to be presented to the family of Bro. JOSEPH K.
WHULER, presented the same suitably engro1Bed, and they were adopted by the
Grand Lodge.

654

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

The Committe e on Jurisprud ence made the following report, which was adopted
by the Grand Lodge :find that
In the matter of War1·en Lodge, No. 51, Portland, your committee
rejected. He
A. B. applied for the degrees to Warren Lodge, No. 51, and was
and the
afterward s applied to a Lodge in Scotland and there received the degrees,
as
question arises as to his Masonic status. Your committee report their opinion
·
follows:
regular
a
is
1st. That A B having been made a Mason in a regular Lodge
Mason.
Con2d. That if he took the degrees with a knowledg e of the MaAonic law of
Warren
necticut for the purpose of evadin~ that law he i" subject to trial by
Lodge for surreptitio usly obtaining the deirrees of Masonry.
of the
3d. That the right of visiting any Lodge rests upon unanimou s consent
members present.
The Grand Secretary was instructed to procure Jewels for Past Grand Masters
similar to those worn by the officers of the Grand Lodge.
e on
The Grand Lodge adopted the following report presented by the Committe
Finance :be $2800,
The amount of Grand Lodge funds we find in the round number to Trustees.
$1800 of which is in hands of Grand Treasure• and $1000 in hands of the of Grand
expense
Regular
The estimated expense for coming year is as follows :
Lodge $2500, Grand Secretary' s offiCA, safe, etc., $400.
should
Your committee believe that the time has come when this Grand Lodge
therefore
cheerfully assume the expense of maintaini ng the Masonic Home, and
recommen d th., passage of the following resolution :Lodge
Ruol.vtd, That there be required to be paid to Grand Lodge from each
of memin the jurisdictio n the sum of one dollar for each member upon its roll
bership.
deducted
Buolvtd, That in estimating their membersh ip all members may be
unknown
who have been Masone thirty years; also those whose whereabou ts are
for five years previous.
ted for deBe1altltil, That twenty-fiv e per cent of amount received be appropria
ted
fraying the erpensee of Grand Lodge, and seventy-five per cent be appropria
for the purpose of the Masonic Charity Foundatio n Fund of Connectic ut.
return to
Raoltltil, That the subordina te Looges be required to make their
on or beGrand Lodge as follows: One half on or before July 1, 1596, one half
fore January 1, 1897.
Lodge
The newly elected officers were installed, the roll was called and every
of the
In the jurisdiotio n (Hve No. 105) were found represente d. Thus closed one
be long
largest and most harmoniou s Communi cations ever held, and which will
dfldiremember ed for its prompt and unanimou s action in support of the newly
cated Masonic Home.
The Report on Correspon dence is again presented by Bro. JoHN H. BARLOW,
Secretary
Past Grand Master and succeBBor to the lamented WHEELER as Grand
of the
and Correspon dent. We have devoted so much space to the dedication
is of the
home that our notice will be unusually brief. His review of California
address
administr ation of Grand Master ORME (not Avr.~11:, Bro. BARLOW), whose
Masters
Grand
Past
our
of
lo~s
the
notes
He
dissent.
without
is freely quoted
one eye
STEVENSON and GRITMAN; thinks the ruling that the loss of the sight of
So it is
disqualifies the applicant, is carrying physical perfection to the extreme.
who
Bro. BARLOW, but our General Regulatio n, No. 11, declares "that the person
being
desires to be made a l\Inson must be a man, no woman nor eunuch; free horn;
a future
neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman ; a believer in God and
or
existence ; of mora conduct; capable of reading and writing ; not deformed

1896.]

Grand Lodge, of Oalifornia.

"dirmembered," but hale and sound in hie physical conformat io

655
h

·

h'

.

avmg 1a right
r1mbs as a ma.n ought to h ave, and able to conform literally ton, what
the
1

severa
.
f h · ,, S , 18
·
degrees respective ly r eq~e
uch our law and our Grand Masters mu
o im.
.
st
rule in accordance therewith , and have since 1864.
d
commende
and
quoted
also
is
address
SEARLS
Nrus
Bro.
Connectic ut is one of the few Grand Lodges that holds to ~h ( •t
. te as J seems to us)
unfair doctrine of perpetual jurisdictio n •• its claim of anc1en
usage and a land
.
mark of t h e 1Ill8ty past is certainly past finding out.
th
but
shelf
the
on
BARLOW'S
We regret to place this excellent paper of Bro.
e
'
overseer demands that we pass up our work.
M. ". W. ". JAMES H. WEI.SH was elected Grand Maste R. ·• W. •• JORN H.
r,
BARLOW was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Hartford.
BARLOW,
H.
Correspon dent, M.". W, '. Br.o. JOHN
The next Annual Commum cation will be held in the city 0 f N ew H aven,
January 20, 1897.

DELAW ARE.
· t' .
held its eighty-nin th Annual Com
Delaware
of
Lodge
The Grand
ion m
the city of Wilmingt on, October 2 1895 -the M. .. W . •. V IRGn.'lUS vmun1ca
HARBISON
'
'
R.
G dM
'
.
Secreta
'. W. '. BENJAMIN F. BARTRAM Grand
ran . aster,
f
t'
Special Communi cations were held Decembe. '4, 1894• for the z;r·d.
e 1ca ion o the
• h
new hall of Ho- Lodge, N o. 4' m
t e town of Laurel · on the 18th f J
r. o anuary,
N
Lod,
J~"er
of
ne
corner-sto
the
of
1895, for the laymg
ge, o. 15, in the town of
"'' 80n
. dF b
Le
L d
e ruary 28, 1895, for the dedication of the hall of Bndea
wes , . an
0
ge,
wr
.
ed
perf
were
s
ceremonie
hich
Milton-w
of
town
the
m
17,
No.
e
accordanc
m
orm
.
Fraternity
the
of
customs
and
usages
ancient
with the
At the Annual Communi cation twenty one Lodg
redgpresehnted, and also
thirty sister Grand Jurisdictio ns. The tw~nty-one
es ave a member·
e
ship of 2,009 Master Masons.

::i:e;:

Cha'1;.:in~rand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
The Grand Master extended a welcome greeting t th
1'.1bledM brethren, but.
before proceedin g to report his official acts, he said . ~The ~Gnm
essenger ' baa
e
·
d
been b
laid his icy hands ,,
chieftains
noblest
our
of
some
He us~ ~m~:g us an upon
•
e names of Past Grand Master THOl!AS D
repo e
Grand
Treasurer J. THOMAS Bunn, and members of six dilferen AVIDSON, Past
Lodges who had obeyed
the summons which sooner or later must com to 11.
. ehalso note:<J the loss of
aister jurisdictio ns in the "p&BBing on ,, of man e1 :
of importanc e were rendered, :1t:u;:

k

foll~;i:;~~ons

~~e~ei~:in:i~~c:~!~!

From Hiram Lodge, No 21, and Jqferirm L 0 dge, N. o. 15, I received communioations asking my advice a~ to re·incorpo t'
.
To both of which I replied that for :\tn. · Lodge to be incorpora
ted was
aaomc
both Ui!neceBBary and dangero~s.
·
An mcorporat ed Lodge becomes sub' t to thTburvei~:~_ce of the courts of law,
from which an unincorpo rated Lodge e~=
by an un~rporated Lodge must look for redressP:· the Gus, a ...........,n expelledJ;lut
if t~e
cge.be incorporat ed, he niay apply to the co rt rfnld 1fdge alone.
a ~estoration of hie
'l~h1se as !L member. Masonic discipline wo~ldsth abw br
~reLyod e sehriously affected.
o my mmd very good reasons exist why a M asonic
ge s ould not be incorJ>Orated.
h
ted
It is not necessary to be in
to old and control property. That can
be done through a Board of Trcor~;_a
us....,.,.
And the Grand Master afterward s adds 1_

656

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

The matter of incorpol'li.tion having been brought to my notic~, and as I believe
it to be unnecessary and dangerous, I recommend that hereafter ~t shall be unlawful for a Lodge under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge to be mcorporated.
And we are glad ·to see the following recommendation. We regard it as a prominent factor in any attempt to cure the evil of non-affiliation:Some of the Lodges charge a fee for affiliation, while the majority do not. This
is a matter that I think we should be uniform on. I would therefore recommend
that no fpe shall be charged by any Lodge under this jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge for affiliation.
•
Upon the recommendation of the Committee on Grand Maste~'s A~d~~· t~e
Grand Lodge re1mlved, "That it shall be unlawful for any Lodge m thlB iurisd1ction to cbarie a fee for affiliation."
The Grand Lodge alao resolved, "That it shall be unlawful for any Lodge in
this jurisdiction to become incorporated."
The Grand Lodge publishes the following as its platform upon the liquor traffic:Ruolved 1. That it is hereby made the dutv of all Lodges in this jurisdiction
to restrain,' as far as possible, the evil of intemperance among the brethren, even
to the extent of trial and punishment, when necessary.
2. All Lodges are required to exclude from the Lodge-roo~ and ant~-rooms all
intoxicatmg liquors, and for the faithful performance of this duty will be held
strictly accountable to the Grand Lodg~. .
. .
.
3. All subordinate Lodges are prob1b1ted from rece1vmg a~d actmg upo':1 a~­
tition for initiation or membership from any person engaged m_the sale of mtox1cating liquors as a beverage, and all M&e0ns are fraternally ad vised and requested
to refrain from engaging in the liquor traffic.

Tbe Report on Correspondence is presented by Past Deputy Grand Master LEWIS
H. JACKSON Chairman. Tbe Report is a review of the doings of forty-eight Amer•
ican and thi;teen Foreign Grand Lodges. The proceechngs of Mississippi did not
come to band or the roll would have been complete. His review of California is of
the administration of Grand Master OB.r.t:E, whose Address he quotes liberally from
and generally commends, especia.lly bis recommendatio~ for the aboliti_o~ of t~e
affiliation fee, the repeal of the present arbitrary restramt of Lodge pn v1leges m
social matters, and the reduction of fees for charters and dispensations.
The work of the Board of Relief is pronounced highly creditable to the juris·
diction. The Oration of Bro. NILES 81!.ARLS, our Grand Orator, is pronounced
learned and impressive. The writer is kindly mentioned.
The M.-. W.-. JosEPH L. CAHALL was elected Grand Master; R. ". W. ".BEN·
JAWN F. BARTRAM was re-elected Grand Secretary.
,
Chairman of Correspondence, Past Deputy Grand Master LEWIS H. JAOKBON,
Yardley, Pa.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia held a Special Communication
:March 'J:l, 1895, for an exemplification of the work under the direction of the
Grand Lecturer. Twenty-three Lodges were represented. The Grand Officers
were in attendance.
The Semi-Annual Communication was held at MaaonicTemple, May8, 1895,M. ". W. ". DAVID G. DIXON, Grand Master; R. ". W. ". WM.. R. SINGLETON, Grand
Secretary. Twenty-two of the twenty-five Lodges in the district were repreaented. The twenty-five Lodges have a membership of 4,948 Master M11sons.

Grand, Lodge of California.

1896.]

657

There were present twelve Paet Grand Masters and the representatives of twentyfour sister Grand Jurisdictions.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
A petition was granted for the formation of a new Lodge to be ca.lled Takoma
Lodge, located in the town of Takoma Park.
The action of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky in repealing the representative
system, having been referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, that committee
reported as follows :The Grand Master of Kentucky bas used pretty strong language in expressing
bis opinion of the_Grand Representative system, but your committee eee no just
grounds for any expression of "contempt" for a system which has received the
sanction of nearly all the Grand Lodges of tbe world for the past thirty or forty
years, whilst under it very many of the most distinguished Masons of our time
now hold or have held commissions as Grand Repr6sentatives of other Grand
Lodges than their own.
If it be determined by the Grand Lodges generally, or by a majority of them,
that the Grand Representative system baa not proved usP.ful in any way, but on
the contrary, has tended to interfere with rather than promote harmony and
fraternal feeling among the Grand Bodies .; if it has failed to do away, in some
measure, with that isolation from each other which their individual eoverei1<I1ty
tends to foster, then it baa not realized the hopes and intentions of those who
were instrumental in instituting it, nor of the many eminent brethren who have
given it their sanction.
If such should be the verdict, this Grand Lodge, with the others, can quietly
resolve to take no further part in it. But there seems to be no good reason to revile the system or exprelis "contAmpt" for it.
As there is no question of Masonic law to be considered in this case, but a mere
matter of expediency, and aa each member of your Jurisprudence Committee has
the honor of holding a commission or commissions as Grand Representative of
other Grand Lodges, and feels honored in having been selected as such, and in having been received by this Grand Lodge in that capacity, it follows that they are
to be looked upon as mterested parties in this matter. They therefore prefer to
offer no recommendation, either in favor of or against the longer continuance of the
Representative system by this Grand Lodge, but would recommend that the matter
be referred to a committee of three members of the Grand Lodge, who are not the
Representatives of any other Grand Lodge, to consider this matter and report at
our next annual meeting.
Referring to the communication from the Grand Lodge of Mississippi, in reference to the adoption of uniform rules aa to jurisdiction over candidates, the com·
mittee say :your committee believe that the adoption by all the Grand Lodges in our
country of some uniform rules governing their respective jurisdiction over candidates (if such a thing could be brought about) would result in great good, and that
the action of the Grand Lodge of Missiasippi, looking to that end is to be com·
mended. Yet it is by no means apparent that any rules could possibly be framed
which would meet with approval by all or even a majority of the Grand Lodges.
. Custom, constitutional provisions, and the jealous regard which each cherishes
for its own sovereignty would, we fear, militate against any general agreement.
Yet, notwithstanding the difficulties in the way, we may hope that a consummation so much to be desired mav eventually be brought about.
The "uniform rules " submitted by the Grand Lodge of Missieaippi are not, in
all res1>_ects, such as your committee could approve.
In Rule I it will be noticed that when a rejected applicant for the degrees subsequently remo''es to another jurisdiction and applies there for the degrees, the
Lodg-e to which be applies requires the one which rejected him to furnish "the
grounds upon which such rejection was made;" and if the grounds of the objection should be furnished the Lodge to which he makes his new pAtition, "it shall
juJge the sufficiency thereof and proceed in its discretion ! " If the grounds for
the rejection are not furnished within six months, it proceeds with the petition
"as in other cases."

7

658

Proce,edings of the

[Oct. 15,

Your committee fail to see bow Rule I could be made opera.tive in this juriedi~­
tion without disregarding the law and usage requiring a secret ballot for a!l can_d1dates for the degrees. The only answer that one of our Lodges could possibl:f give
to an inquiry as to the came of a rejection would be, "there was a black ball m the
ballot-box."
Rule II will not, in the opinion of vour committee, be acceptable t'? o~r :i;,~gee,
as the usage which obtains in this, as well as . in most Grand Lodge JUrisdict~ons,
of requesting another Lodge to act ae/roxy in conferring the degre~s to which a
candidate bas been elected, when sai candidate removes tempoyarily oy permanently from the jurisdiction, bas, we believe, alw!'ys worked eatisfactor~ly; a!1d
until some better arrangement than that suggested rn the rules undt;r conside~a~ion
shall be presented for the action of the Grand Lodge, it would be wiser to contmue
our present system.
With the greatest respect and fraternal regard for our brethren of the Grand
Lodge of Mississippi, your committee feel constrained to recommend that the
uniform rules proposed by that Grand Lodge be not adopted.
And commenting upon a proposed amendment to the Constitution the committee recall a bit of hi•tory full of instruction to Masons of this generation who
would preserve the peace and harmony of Grand Lodge. We trust the brethren
will heed the advice of the committee and drop the proposed amendment, for
· there is danger in it. We note, however, that the matter was disposed of bv
reference to a committee of five to report at the Communication in November.
Grand Lodge was called off to meet at Takoma Park, May 14th, for the institution of Takoma Lodge, the ceremonies of which were duly carried out. A resumed Semi-Annual Session was held May 22d, and a SpeciaJ June 6th for the
dedication of the new hall of Naval Lodge, No. 4.
A special was also held September 5th for the purpose of paying the last
tribute of fraternal regard to the remains of Bro. SAMUEL YORK AT LEE, Paet
Master of Federal Lodge, No. l;
And again on the 8th of October a Special Communication was held to place
the corner·stone of the M. E. church, corner of 15th and K streets, in the city of
Washington, upon which occasion Grand Lodge formed in procession and un~er
the escort of three Commanderies of KnightR Templar proceeded to the locality
of the proposed new church and laid the corner·stone with the usual ceremonies of
the Craft, after which the Grand Lodge returned to the Temple and closed.
.
The Annual Communication was held at Masonic Temple, November 13, 1895,M. ·. W. ·.DAVID G. DIXON, Grand Master; R. ·. W. ·.WM. R. SINGLETON, Grand
Secretary. Twenty.five Lodges were represented. 'fhere were also present twelve
Past Grand Masters, two Past Deputies and four Past Grand Wardens, with the
representatives of forty-two sister Grand Jurisdictions, including Worshipful
!BAAC SELOVER TICHENOR for California.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
With fervent thanks to the Great Father for his mercies and continued prdtection and words of fraternal sorrow for the brethren who had passed to rest during
the past year the Grand Master proceeded to report his official acts with such .
advice as the condition of their jurisdiction might suggest.
The Grand Master reported the condition of the jurisdiction as prosperous,
with peace and harmony prevailing. He had not been called upon for any decisions, nor had auy disputed points come to his knowledge. Five special diepen·
eatione were issued. 'lhe usual visitations were made to the constituent Lodges,
He reported a pleasant visit and reception by the brethren of Baltimore.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

659

The Grand Lecturer reported the condition of the several LodR"es; be said the
Lodges were in good condition, the officers had been efficient in the discharge of
their duties and the attendance of the brethren had been larger than usual.
The Special Committee appointed at the Semi-Annual Communication, May
8th, on certain proposed amendments to the Constitution, through their Chairman,
PaBt Grand Master E. H. CHAHBBRLIN, made the following report, which, after
due consideration, we are pleased to learn, was adopted by Grand Lodge:~
BRETHREN: At the Semi-Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, held
in May last, certain amendments t.o the Constitution offered by Bro. RoBERT BALL,
!'1so amendments recommended by a committee, in .regard to th~ method of voting
m the Grand Lodge, were referred to the undersigned committee for intelli1rent
arrangem_ent_and recommendation, with instructions to report at this the Annual
Communication.
After very careful and thoughtful consideration your committee would respectfullJ>: report that they have c'?nsidered the proposed amendments ia their different
bearmgs; have carefully weighed the arguments made on both sides and have
reached the conclusion that it would be unwise legislation to make the propo~ed
chanp in the Constitution of this Grand Lodge.
. Your committee, recognizing the hiR"h standard of intelligence possessed by
th!s ~r~n~ ~ody, the _great degree of ha~on;r which has so long characterized
this Jur1sd1<?t1on workmll" und_er the C.onetitut1on as it now exists, fail, in their
aearcn for light upon this subJect, to discover any advantage to be gained by this
Grand Lodge by the adoption of the proposed amendments.
. We would. call the attention of the brethyen to the report made by the Committee on Jurisprudence at the May Communication on the subject of. voting and
heartily endorse the conclusions reached by that committee.
'
The names of sixty-six brethren were inscribed upon the death roll of the
Grand Lodge for the district for the year 1895.
Grand Lodge receipts for the year $4,484.20; Grand Lodge disbursements
$4,287.33; Grand Lodge assets $13,311.86.
Bro. WM. R. SINGLETON presentll his twenty-sixth Report on Correspondence.
His review of California is of the administration of Grand Master ORME, from
whose address he quotes without comment. He notes the report of the Committee
on Jurisprudence in reference to the eligibility of Masons engaged in the liquor
traffic to office in Grand Lodge, and excepts to these words of the committee:
"The power of the Grand Lodge as a legislative body is 'limited only by the
Ancient Landmarks of the Order,' which it cannot modify or repeal, and by the
provisions of its own Constitution which it can repeal or modify only in the way
prescribed ;" and Bro. SINGLETON says:The decision of the co~mittee was .correct, but the reasons were very faulty.
1:he Landmarks have noth.mg to ,do with the question whatever. The Constitution could be changed to amt the circumstances, but in our judgment would have
been ".l'r_ong. If a member of a Lodge is not eligible to hold an office, then he is
not eligible to be a member.
We hardly think Bro. SINGLETON meant to say that the power of the Grand
Lodge is not limited by the Ancient Landmarks of the Order, although he might
very reasonably say that the question under consideration bore no relation to any
Landmark yet heard from. Referring to the report of the same committee on the
Mississippi question, he soys :The Som_m~t~e ~n Jurisp!'lldence m.ane !'very lengthy and mo•t exc1illent report
on the Mississippi resolutio~s," w~ich is too loog for our pages, but is well
wo~hy of pel'Bual. The committee did not recommend the adoption of the reso·
lutione, b~t. e~id they could promise that the Grand Lodge of California will be
ready to JOID m the enactment of some general law that will relieve Entered Ap-

660

Pr~dings of the

[Oct. 15,

prentices and Fellow Crafts from the present claim of perpetual jurisdiction and
will give them all the liberty they can reasonably ask.
Referring to a little question of Grand Lodge practice, he says:"In ye olden time," Grand Lodges, and also constituent Bodie~, used the term
"adjourned ·" said term within the last forty years bas been substituted generally
by "called ~:fl," that is, from "labor to refreshment," and "labor resumed" is
"called on" or" called from refreshment to labor." We are not the only Grand
Lodge that now uses the term "resumed," etc.
In discussing the question of jurisdiction, Bro. ANTHONY of New York wrote:While jurisdiction may not be claimed over a profane who had never applied
for the degrees, and had perm~nently left th~ j~risdicti?n•. Wf! s~ould consider that
the acquirement of a Masonic !6Bldence withlD the JU~diction. of :he G;ra~d
Lodge of the District of Columbia should be at. least the time req_uired ID the Jurisdiction from which he had removed, being in the State of New York twelve
months.
To which :Bro. SINGLETON responds :In response to this we reply that the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia
has continued to observe the Masonic universal rule that "free soil makes free
Masons." The term of residence is a purely local regulation and only rec:ogni~
in the United States. This question we debated in 1871-the first year this wnter
took charge of the work of review. The same question was the cause of correspondence between Bros. GoULEY of Missouri, PARVIN of Iowa, and the Grand
Secretary of Idaho, and the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and they bad each to surrender the points at issue.
.
.
.
The Grand Lodge of this jurisdiction surrendered the prescriptive
nght i!1
justice to her sister jurisdictions, who made claims to her personal as well as territorial jurisdiction.
The fundamental principle to be considered is whether the material is worthy
and suitable. As the institution is univeraal, any workshop is a suitable place :O
work up any given material, the particular workmen ~ing the j~dges as :O suitability and fitness. When we were first made a Mason ID St. Louis, Mo., ID 1840,
there was no question of this character raised anywhere in the world. We are not
sure just when the first effort was made, nor in what State, but we think it was
subsequent to the B~ltimore c_onvention. . .
.
. . . .
Again : at that time, a re1ected candidate, ha.v1Dg left the J~risd
iction of the
Lodge which rejected him, could apply to the Lodge nearest his present place of
residence. Many jurisdictions now hold to the old rule. We have not f_~lly
settled on the merits of this point. Soi;iietimes we have thoug~t that t~e a.pphcation of a petition to a Lodge does not give that Lodge any claim to him if they
refuse to receive him.
They might say to him as we knew a wag to say over the grave of an old French
refugee from San Domingo, }~SDRAB by name, who died at Portsmouth, Va., when
we were a mere boy. He refused to have any ceremonies at bis burial, being a
skeptic of the French school, but a few of his friends accompanied bis remains to
the grave wherein he was deposited, 11ond one of them, :Mr. JAMES JARVIS, took
some earth, and, dropping it into the grave, said :
".Ai.hes to ashes, dust to dust,
If the Lord won't have you, the devil must."
The M. ·. W. ·. GEO. W. BAIRD was elected Grand Master ; the R. '. W. ·• WM.
R. SINGLETON was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Correspondent, Bro. WM. R. SINGLETON, 909 F street, N. W. Masonic Temple.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Washington, D. C.,
November 10, 1896.
ENGLAND.

The Grand Lodge of England held its third Quarterly Communication for 1895
at Freemasons' Hall, London, on September 4th,-tbe R. ·• W. ·.WILLIAM WITHBB
BRANSTON BBAOH, M. P., acting Grand Master; V.·, W. '.EDWARD LETOHWORTH,

1896,J

G-rand Lo<U]e of OaJ,ifornia.

661

Grand Secretary. Present: The Master, Past Masters and Wardens of the Grand
Stewards' Lodge, and the Masters, Past Masters and Wardens of many other
Lodges.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Form and with solemn prayer. After some
debate the minutes of the Quarterly of June 5th were approved, and the report of
the Board of Benevolence for June, July and August read and ordered entered on
the minutes. Petitions were received to the extent of £1850, and grants recommended by the Board were confirmed in the additional amount of £400.
The Board of General Purpo&ei! reported presentations made to the Museum
and Library.·
The Board also submitted a statement of the Grand Lodge accounts at the last
meeting of the Finance Committee, held on Tuesday, Augu~t 20th, showing a balance in the Bank of England (Law Courts Branch) of £7435 lls. 2d. and in the
hands of the Grand Secretary for petty cash £100, and for servants' wages £100.
W. ·. Bro. Sir GEORGE DAVID HARRIS, P. G. D., Chairman of the Colonial
Board, moved that the Report of the Colonial Board be received and entered on
the minutes, wbich, on beinii; seconded, was put and carried.
REPORT OF THE COLONIAL BOARD TO THE UNJTIID GRAND LoDGE OF ENGLAND.
The Board~ to report that they have received from the District Grand Master
of Canterbury, New Zealal!d• a formal notification that the following Lodges which
had seceded from the Umted Grand Lodge of England and joined the s~-called
~nd Lodge of New Zealand, had, under the authority delegated to the District
Grand Lodge of Canterbury by Art. 106 of the Book of Constitutions been du!
erased from the. Roll of the UniteQ Grand Lodge of England, and that the Wal.
rants of the said Lodges had all been returned to the District Grand Master of
Canterbury: New Zealand Lodge of Unanimity, No. 604; St. Augustine Lodge
No. 609; Southern Cross Lodge, No. 760: Progress Lodll!e, No 1651 · St George';
Lodge, No. 1856; South Rakaia Lodge, No. 1857; Ashley Lodge, N~. 1S77; LinCC?ln Lodge, No.1918; M~lvern ~odge, No.1919; Concord Lodge, No. 1926 • PhceJlll Lodge, No. 1959; Kaikoura Lodge, No. 2236.
'
'.pie Hoard have further to report that Bulwer Lodge, No. 891, Constantinople
havil!g been duly summoned under Rule 73, Book of Constitutions, to show cau~
why it sho~ld not be erased, a letter has been received from its late Worshi ful
Master statmg that the Lodge. was finally closed in February, 1894, and that pthe
Warrant bad been returned with the consent of the members who were unable to
carry on the Lodge any longer.
. Bro. ~ILLIAM ~OODWARD, P. M., of No. 1920, moved that the Grand Lodge
issue a circular settmg forth thl'! scheme suggested by him under which the Freemasons of England would contribute to the Decoration Fund of St. Paul's Cathed~l . a sum sufficient for the ~mpletion of the cupola and transcepts; that the
opimon of the Craft be ascertamed through such circular, and that such steps be
taken thereafter to secure the end in view as may commend themselves to the
Grand Lodge.
After an extended debate the mover was given permission to withdraw the
motion.
The Grand Lodge closed in Form, with solemn prayer.
The fourth Quarterly was held in London December 4, 1895,-the R. '. W. ·.
WILLIAM WITHER BRAMSTON BBAOH, acting Grand Master, presiding; V. ·• W. ·.
EDWARD LETCHWORTH, F. S. A.., being Grand Secretary. Present: the Grand
Stewards of the year, the Master, Past Masters and Wardens of the Grand Stewards' Lo~e, and the Masters, Past Masters and Wardens of many other Lodges.
After the approval of the minutes of the Quarterly of September 4th, Bro.
SQUIRE B. BANCROFT, P. M. Universal Lodge, No. 181, London, said :-

662

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

Most Worshipful Grand Master in the Chair, an,l Brethren: You ~ant me a
privilege which, as it were, ties my tongue, for so poor a straggler in the ranks as
mySE'!f could not dare to extol our auguijt leader; but in my just humility I am not
blind to the brotherhood of Freemasonry, which permits me the distinguished
honor in Grand Lodge of nominating our Illustrious and Most Worshipful Grand
Master. bi• Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, to again 611 that exalted post. I
will only venture to add in the Masonic words of Shakespeare, "His worth is warrant for his welcome here," for it may be truly said of us, and all of us, that our
humble duty towards the Prince is only equaled by our loyal affection for the
brother.
Bro. WILLIAM HEAP BAILEY, Past Senior Grand Warden, was nominated for
Grand Treasurer.
The Right Worshipful Grand Master in the chair:Brethren :-The Most Worshipful Grand Master has been pleased to confer the
rank and dignity of Past Grand Warden on his Excellency Lord BRABSll:Y, K. C. B.,
of Lod1res No. 40, 247, and 1184, Governor of the Colony of Victoria; also on his
Excellency Sir GERARD SMITH~_K. 0. M. G., of Lodge 1191, Governor ot the Colony of West Australia. The Most Worshi;>ful Grand Master has been pleased to
appoint Bro. KuPFERSOHMIDT to the office of Assistant Grand Secretary for G'll'man Correspondence.
Bro. KUPFERBOHMIDT was then conducted to the pedestal and invested by the
Right Worshipful Grand Master in the chair with the clothing of Assistant Grand
Secretary for German Correspondence.
The Board of General Purposes submitted several proposed amendments to the
Rules o( the Book of Constitutions, referring to the organization and length of
terms of members of the Colonial Board and the formation of the committees of
the Board of General Purposes.
After an extended debate the following was adopted :The Board shall appoint, from amongst its members, a committee of seven to
coneider all Colonial, Indian and Foreign matters that may be referred to it, whose
duty it shall be to report their proceedings to tbe Board at its next meeting. Such .
committee to be composed, as far as can, of Masters or Past Masters of Colonial,
Indian or Foreign Lodges under the En1dish Constitution.
The Board may also appoint committees for specific purposes, who shall report
to the Board in like manner.
The Right Wo!'l!hipful Grand Master informed the brethren that he would take
the report of the Scrutineers in the Grand Master's room.
· Grand Lodge closed in Form, with solemn prayer.
The first Quarterly for 1896 was held March 4, 1896,-the M. '. W. '. Right Honorable the Earl of Lathom, Grand Master, on the Throne; V. '. W. '. EDWARD
LEI'CHWORTH, F. S. A., Grand Secretary. The Grand Stewards of the year were
present, with the Master, Past Master and W ardeus of the Grand Stewards and
many other Lodges.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with solemn prayer. After the ap·
proval of the minutes, a vote of condolence was passed to Her Majesty the Queen
and her daughter the Princese BEATRICE upon the death of Prince HENRY of Batten berg.
After much ceremony and many loyal protestations, His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales was re-elected Grand Master of England, and the Grand Director
of Ceremonies made the following proclamation :The Most High, Most Mighty, and Most Illustrious Prince, ALDKRT EDWARD,
Prince of Wales, Duke of Saxony, Duke of Cornwall and Rothesay, Earl of Ches-

1896.]

Grand Lodge of OaUforn:ia.

663

ter, Carrick, an~ Dublin, Baron of Renfrew and Lord of the Isles, Great Steward
of Scotland, Kmght of the Most Noble Order of the Garter Knight of the M t
Ancient and Noble Order of the Thistle, Knight Grand Croi:s of the Most Ho os
0
able Order of the Bath, Knight of the Most Illustrious Order of St. Patrick, Kni' ~;;
Gr!nd
Knight
India,
of
Star
the
of
Order
Exalted
~ost
~he
<!f
Grand Commander
Cross of the Most D1st1ngu1shed Ord~r of St. Michael and S~ Georl{e, and Knight
Grand Commander of the Most Emment Order of the Indian Empire, etc tc '
Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted
ns
of England for the ensuing year,

:Ma:o .,

Bro. WILLIAM HE_;P BAILEY, Past Pro. Senior Grand Warden, of Staffordshire,
was elected Grand Treasurer.
The Board of Benevolence made a detailed report.
Th~ Board_ ~f Gener~l P~rpoees made their report of routine business, and the
following add1t1onal legislat10n was had. After considerable discussion the Grand
Lodge resolved :That the Gran.d Lodite of. England, in Qaarterly Communication assembled
here.by expresses its strong <!tsapproval of the system of canvassinll' and toutin '
g
carried on at Lhe annual elections, and earnestly appeals to its members to d"
tenance and prevent the continuance of a practice which is contrary to the 18C?ll1!·
pnnciFreemasonry.
English
of
pies and tenets
The Auditor's Report and Quarterly Statement of Accounts was received and
ordered published with the proceedings of the session,
Grand Lodge was then closed in Due Forui, with solemn prayer.
The second G'.'11nd .Quarterly was holden at Freemasons' Hall, London, April
29, 1896,- the M.. W .. the Earl of Lathom, Pro. Grand Master, on the Throne
th.e V. '. W . ·. EDWARD. LETCHWORTH, F. S. A., Grand Secretary; tojrether with
~1ght and Very Worshipful Grand Officers and dignitaries and Worshipful offiCJals to the number of one hundred and twenty.
There were also present distinguished visitors from the Grand Lodges f N
South Wales, Victoria, and Ireland ; also the Grand Stewards of the ye:r w7t~
the Masters, Pa9t Masters and Wardens of the Grand Stewards' Lodge a;d the
Masters, Past Masters and Wardens of many other Lodges.
Grand ~dge was ?pened with solemn prayer; whereupon the Grand Director
of Ceremomea proclaimed :.The Mo9t High, Most Mighty, and Moat Illustrious Prince ALBERT EDWARD
Prince of Wales, and. with other titles innumerable, Grand Master of the United
·
Grand Lodge of Anetent Free and Accepted Masons of England for the ensuJ.Dg
year.
The .Pro. Grand Master, the M. •. W. '. the Earl of Lathom, announced his own
re-appomtment by the Grand Master, and was proclaimed and saluted aceord"mg1y.
. . G
Th M . W . p
e . . . . rovmc1al r~nd Master then announced the appointment of
the ?:rand Officers for the ensumg year, and they were invested and saluted accordingly.
The M. '. W. '. Provincial Grand Master stated that it had pleased the M. '. w. '.
Grand Master to commemorate this the twenty-first year of his services as G d
Master by the appointment of twenty-one Eminent brethren to Past Grand r:':r.
~~ brethren present were each led to the Throne and presented to the M.-. w. '.
Prov1s1onal Grand Master, by whom they were taken by the hand.
The Lodges appointing Grand Stewards having made a return to the M." w. ·.
Grand Master Qf the brethren proposed for the ensuing year, and His:Royal High-

Procwlings of the

664

[Oct~ 15,

ness having approved of the same, they were presented and proclaimed accordingly.
The Grand Lodgti was closed in .Ample Form, with solemn prayer.
In the evening an excellent entertainment was enjoyed, provided by the Grand
Stewards.
The third Quarterly of this Grand Lodge was held at Freemasons' Hall June 3,
1896,-the R.-. W." the Earl of Amhnrst, Depnty Grand Master, presidin,g, V.'. W. •.
EDWARD LETCHWORTH, Gr1µ1d Secretary; with appointed Grand Orlloers and a large
attendance of Masters, Past Masters .and Wardens of the Grand Stewards Lodge,
and Masters, Past Masters and Wardens of many other Lodges.
Grand Lod.,"11 was opened in Doe Form, with solemn ceremonies.
The following resolntion was nnanimonsly adopted : Thai this Grand Lodge desires to record its gratltnde to the Great Architect of
the Universe that the twenty-first anniversary of the installation of His Royal Highness as Grand Master bas been attained, to the great advantage of the Craft in general and the happiness of the brethren in particnlar, and tbl• Grand Lodge earnestly
prays that, by the protecting blessing of the lllost Bigh, His Royal Highness may
continne to be the wise and enlightened rnler of English Freeme.sonry for many
years to come.
The Depnty Grand Master annonnced the appointment of Hon. ALON DE TATTON
EGERTON, M. P., to the rank and dignity of Past Jnnior Grand Warden; also the reappointment of Bro. RICHARD LovELAND LOVELAND as President of the Board of
General Parposes.
The hoar for the special order having arrived, the regnlar election was held.
Scrutineers were appointed and obligated to make trntbfal retarns. The ballots
were collected, and the Scrntineers retired to examine and cast op the vote.
The Grand Secretary read the names of the brethren who had been appointed to
serve on the varions committees.
The Board of General Parposes reported, the report chiefly referring to the regulation of salaries and financial matters of Grand Lodge.
Grand Lodge voted that the sam of 500 gaineas be contributed from the fonds of
Grand Lodge In aid of the special effort now being made ander the chairmanship of
His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, Most Worsbipfal Grand Master, on behalf
of Guy's Hospital, with the object of re-endowing and permanently improving the
financial condition of that noble institatlon.
Contribations were received between Jone lat and March 31st, 1896, of £4851 4s.
for the Benevolent Fond and £.2887 ls. 6d. for the Register of Fees and Uertificates.
The B. ". W. •• Acting Grand Master proceeded to bis room, attended by the Actjag Depnty Grand Master and other Grand Officers, where the Scrutineers handed
in a signed paper of the resnlt of the b"llot, which he then declared, and announced
that the following brethren would form the Board for the ensaing year :BOARD OF GENERAL PURPOSBd.

V.·.

w... Bro. RIOHABD LOVELAND LovELJ.ND .................. President.
Ex Officio Members.

The Grand Master, the Pro. Grand Master, the Depaty Grand Master, the Wardens
of the year.
Bro. W. H. BAILEY............................................. G. Treasurer.
.. JUDGB Pll!LBRIOK, Q. c .............. ...................... G. Registrar.
" R. HORTON Sl{ITH, Q. 0 .................................... D. Gr, Registrar.
.. 8ra JOHN B. MONOXTON, P. G. w.. ...... ............. ..... P. President.
'' THOMAS F.s:NN ..• ••..•.......... .. ....•.....•.•••••....•.. . P. President.
" ROBERT G.llllY ........ . ............. ... ..................... Pre~. Bd. of Ben.
" Bra ALBERT W. WOODS, K. 0. M. G., 0. B., Garter, P. G. W . . G. Dir. of Oers.
Grand Lodge olosed.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

665

The United Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted MasonR of England held a Special
Grand Lodge in Freemasons' Hall, London, on the 29th of Joly, 1896,-M.-.
The Rt. Hon. The Earl of Latham, Pro. Grand Master, on the Throne; v.-, W. ._
EDWARD LBT<JHWOBTH, F. S. A., Grand Secretary. Present, tile Grand Officers, the
Grand Stewards of the year, with Masters, Past Masters and Wardens of mar.y other
Lodges. Grand Lodge was opened in Solemn Form, with prayer.
The M.·. W.-. Past Grand Master stated the purpose of the Oommnnication to be
the consideration of the following meBBage from the Grand Master enbmitted for the
action of Grand Lodge : -

w.-.

His Royal Highness the Most Worsbipfnl Grand Master having considered the
application for recoguition by the Grand Lodge of England of the New Body called
the Grand Lodge of New Zealand, as an independent sovereign Masonic authority,
!'nd bav!n~ informed. bimsel~ of the general state of Masonic feeling io the Colony,
1s of opmton that with a view to promote the harmony and anion of the various
Masonic bodies there, and to end all sources of difference, the period bas now arrived when reeognition may be properly accorded, and therefore desires that the
sense of Grand Lodge should be taken on the following resolution, which I now
move:" That, taking into consideration the message of the M.-. W.". Grand Master,
Grand Lodge requests that H is Royal Highness will be pleased to take such steps
for the recognition of the Grand Lodge of New Zealand, and for the establishment
of fraternal good feeling with onr New England brethren as he may consider conRistent with the honor of this Grand Lodge, and with jnst consideration for those
J,odges which may desire to retain their connection with the Grand Lodge of England."
I beg to move that.

R.-. W.-. Brother the Earl of Onslow, Provincial Grand Master for Sarrey : Most Worsbipfol Sir and Brethren, I beg to second tbRt resolution, and perhaps for.
the purpose of doing so I may be allowed to sav a few words, having w11tched the
movement of the Grand Lodge of New Zealand from its inception to the present
time. Yon are aware that in all the Anstraliao Colonies movements similar to this
h~!e taken place, and that in .each one of t~em Chan~ Lodge bas accorded its recogmtwn to those Grand Lodges m oar An•trahao Ooloo1es. Now, when I was a resident in New Zealand a movement of that kind was set on foot there, and our breth·
ren in New Zealand asked me to do them the honor to be the first Grand Master. I
commnnicated with our late Grand Secretary, Col. 8HADWELL CLERKS, and a•ked
him to Inform me what were the conditions upnn which the Grand Lodge of England
n~nally e:"tended recognition. to Grand Lodges !n. the Colonies, and I was told by
him that 1t was not nsual to withhold that recogmtwn where the vast majority of the
brethren in the Colonies desired to have Maaonic aatonomy. Bot t was anable to
satisfy myself at that time that each universal or general disposition bad been mani·
fested by the brethren of the Oraft that wonld iustify myself as a Past Grand
Warden of England in accepting the post offered me, and to ask the Grand Master
and ofllcers of the ~rand Lodge to extend that recognition. Now I am happy to
say that since that time a considerable change has come over Masonic affairs there,
and that whereas there bad been a considerable amount of ill feeling owing to some
of those Lodges wbioh had seceded taking with them chart•rs which belonged to
them, and brethren who bad not seceded, that had been completely changed and
their frank recognition bad bee11 given, and the charters t.bat bad been taken ~way
were banded back. J think that shows the spirit la which they are conducting the
Grand Lodge of New Zealand, and that the brethren are trying to carry oat the pre·
cepts of the Craft. Under those circnmstance~, and seeing that the administration
of the Grand Lodge of New Zealand is nnder mo~t \'minent brethren in the Colony,
ss well as men most highly respected by the Gover119r, I think the m•ssage addressed by the Grand Master to us, and this resolntion moved by the Pro. Grand
Master-and which I second-onght to commend themselves to the brethren, and
for that ree.son I have the greatest pleasnre in seconding the motion.

.

Sain tat.ion to the Grand MBllter and cheers for New Zealand.
Brother DRUllML'ND says or this Grand Lodge : Th a.tit is moving forward prosperonsly, and doing a grand work for Masonry and
hall}an.1ty_. !ts greatest impediment is the maintenance and chartering of Lodges In
Its Jnnsd1ct1on, by other Me.sonic powers witbont right, and in violation of Masonic

666

Proceed:ings of the

[Oct. 15,

law. The Grand Lodge of Maine did not acknowledge it anti! satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that a majority of the old Lodges In the Colony had given in _tb~lr
adhesion to it, so that it was the rightful supreme Masonlo power in that jur1sd1ction.
.
This recognition (Mld we preenme that of other Grand Lodges) meant all that 1t
lmplieR and was made with a full nnderstsnding of the possible conseqnencee. It
is scar~ely necessary to add, therefore, that oar Grand Lodge will support the far
away Grand Lodge or New Zealand ia ite measures to protect its jurisdiction from
unlawful invasion as earnestly and heertily as it wonld its next neighbors, the Graod
Lodge of New Hampshire or the Grand Lodge of New Brunswick.

FLORIDA.
The Grand Lodge or Florida asaembled in Special Communication in the City of
Pensacola, Aogost 26, 1895, for the purpose or placing; the corner-atone or the Jewish Synagogue in that city.
The sixty-seventh Annual Communioation was held in the Oity of Jacksonville,
January 21, 18g6,-tbe M.·. W.·. Jui:ES W. BOYD, Grand Master, the .R.·. W.·,
WILBRB P. WEBSTBB, acting Grand Secretary. Ten Past Grand .Mastera and twelve
District Deputy Grand Masters were present. Grand Lodge roll numbers 151 constitneot Lodges, with a membership or 4349 .Master .Masons. Of these, 130 Lodges
were represented at the present Communication. The Representatives of for~y­
three sister Grand Lodges were in attendance, the Representative of California
amoog the nnmber.
Grand Lodge was opene!l in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master, in sorrowful words, annonnced the death of M.·. W.·. Bro.
ALBll:BT J. RussRLL, Grand Secretary and Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Florida, whereupon Grand Lodge was called oft' for the pnrpose of making prepara·
tions to pay the last sail tribute of respect and affection to the deceased brother by
accompanying his remains to the place of sepulchre.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock P. x ., formed in procession, and after attending the funeral services proceeded to the cemetery and performed the last sad
ceremonies of Masonic bnrial. U poo the return to the Temple an address was de·
livered by the Grand Master, in which be paid an earnest tribute to the estimable
characteristics or the departed brother as a Mason and a citizen ; be also referred to
the passing away of many eminent brethren of sister jurisdictions, to the bereaved
relatives and friends of whom he tendered the sympathy or the Masons of Florida.
The Grand Master issned dispensations for the formation or seven new Lodges
within the year. He gives the condition of Masonry in Florida as "thriving and progressive." He deprecates the tendency to hasten the work of making Masons "oat
of time."
·
For Masonic purposes the jurisdiction is divided into nineteen districts, each being under the supervision of a District Deputy. He submitted the Wiscpnsin relief
propositions wiiboot recommendation for each action as Grand Lodge should deem
advisable.
.
The Grand Lodge visited .Dutial Lodge, No. 18, and witnessed an exemplification
or the Entered Apprentice degree.
P&St Grand M&Ster ENOS WABGATE presented the fraternal greetings of tbe Grand
Lodge of Maine.
W.·. and Rev. R. H. WBLLBB, Grand Orator, delivered an address npon the
Masonic character as symbolized in the Polished Ashlar.
The Grand Lodge witneased the exemplification or the second degree by Solomon
Lodge, No. 20.
Grand Lodge presented a Past Grand Master's Jewel to Past Grand Master W.
FORSYTH BYNUll:. ·

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

667

The Grand Lodge of Florida pays ite Grand Secretary a salary of Sll00.00 and
Grand Treasurer a salary of $150.00 per annum.
The Grand Lodge w1tnesaed the exemplitlcation or the third degree by Templ8
Lodge, No. 23.
There is no Report on Correspondence.
Mourning pages are Inscribed to the memory of Past Grand Master and Grand
Secretary ALBERT J. RUSSELL and Past Depnty Grand Master B .•• w... JAMES ELLEN•
WOOD.
The M. •• W.·. JAMES W. BOYD was re·elected Grand Master; the R. ·• W. •. WILBKJI
P. WEBSTER was elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence, Past Clrand Master W. A. McLEAN, Jacksonville.
The next Annnal Communication will be held In the city of Jacksonville the ad
Tuesday in J anoary, 189i.

GEORGIA.
The Grand Lodge of Georgia held its one hundred and ninth Annual Commnnica.
tion in the city of Macon, October 29, 1B95,-M.·. W.·. JOHN P. SHJ.!INON, Grand
Master; R.·. W.· • ..\., M. WoLIHIN, Grand Secretarv.
Tbe total nnmber or Lodges enrolled is 405, with a membership of 16,838 Master
Masons. or these 391 Lodges were represented at this Communication.
The death roll of the past year bas inscribed therel>n the names of 2&.l honored
brethren.
Seven permanent members were present, with the representatives of forty-five
sister Grand Jurisdictions, of which number the R.·. W.·. JAMRS W. TAYLOR of
Luthersville responded for California.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap·
lain.
Grand Master SHANNON delivered a very able and lengthy address. Of the condition of Masonry in Georgia, he says :Numerically we may not have increased, but the personnel of the membership
was never better. The dead branches have been lopped ofl, and the body of the
llMonio tree is living, growing and bearing only healthy, mor.l fruit. Good men
and troe have been added to our ranks, and to-day the 18,000 .Masons of Georgia
stand a band of law observing, God fearing meu, honored even by those who are
ignorant of the mysteries of our Order, bot who approve the practical working of
onr ancient Craft. Thus we should ever be a happy, loving society of friends and
brothers.
Happy Grand Master: Long may be enjoy the loyal support of brethren so devoted to the original plan and designs of Masonry.
The Grand Master's report of bis omcial acts if the journal of an active and vigorous administration. He appears to have held himself subject to call for the discharge of any Masonic dnty; his visitations were many, for the laying or corner-stones,
purposes of dedication , or the performance of other Masonic ceremonies. He granted
some seventy dispensations for various pnrposes. Of the District Deputies he says
he has found them faithful and efficient, always ready to dispense information among
the less informed brethren, and he commends them to Grand Lodge as a hard work·
ing and able set. or officers, who richly deserve the thanks or the Fraternity. He
bad granted dispensations for the formation of three new Lodges.
He bad rendered some two bnndred decisions dnrinll' the year, thirty of which he
reports for the pnrpose or emphasizing well known principles of Masonic low, and
says it Is doe to &he Craft to state that the rendermg of so many decisions by him
ls due not so much to Ignorance on the pa.rt or Mastera with reference to the laws of
the Fraterni1y es to the desire for information aa tq the i;>roper construction thereof.

668

Procee,dings of the

[Oct. 15,

He submits the Wisconsin proposition as to the dispensing of Masonic relief to
Grand Lodge without recommendation .
He urges the establishment of a Masonic Home by the Grand Lodge at the
earliest date. He closes his address with a loving and eloquent tribute to the dis·
tingoished dead of the year, and in spirit deposits his evergreen sprig of acacia
upon their last resting places in remembrance of their useful lives.
The Grand Lodge endorsed the Masonic Herald, published at Rome, Georgia, and
recommended it to the Frat.ernity.
On the evening of October 29, the members of Grand Lodge and invited guests
assembled in Gr!Llld Lodge hall to witness the ceremonies of unveiling the memorial
tablet erected to the memory of Georgia's deceased Grand Master, JOHNS. DAVIDSON.
The cerP.monies consisted of prayer by the Grand Chaplain, music by the choir,
under the direction of the Grand Organist, addresses by the Grand Master and Grand
Secretary and others, and benediction.
A touching letter was read from Past Grand Master SAMUEL D. IRVIN, stating that
increasing age, with its infirmities, would prevent his attendance at the present session;
bnt thongh age had dimmed his eyes, pa1sied one of his hands and enervated his
whole physical strnctore, it had not impaired his steady attachment to the snblime
principles of ancient Freemasonry.
Bro. IRVIN was made a Mason in Albany Lodge, Georgia, July 18, 1845. He
·
served as Grand Master in the yearij 1874-5.
The District Deputies exemplified the third degree npon an actual candidate for
the benefit of Grand Lodge.
Action upon the Wisconsin plan of relief, submitted for the consideration of
Grand Lodge, was deferred until next Annual Communication.
'J he Finance Committee having reported a mild balance on the wrong side of the
ledger, the Grand Secretary, Grand Treasurer and Grand Msster were anthorized to
borrow, upon the best ter.ms obtainable, a sufficient sum to wipe out the score.
Brq. W. S. RAMSAY submits the Report on Oorrespondence for the committee, of
which he is Chairman. ~he committee make a thorough review of some fifty-three
jurisdictions, of which Bro. RAMSAY makes himself responsible for twenty·seven by
placing his mark upon them. He urges upon the brethren a careful reading of the
reports as tending to elevate and broaden the mind, and.thus make us better men
and Masons.
Under California Bro. A. Q. MOODY notes the doings of eighteen jurisdictions.
Be reviews the administration of Grand Master ORME, and says of our jurisdiction:
"Everything goes to show that California is one of the most prosperous jurisdictions in the United States, financially and otherwise,'' all of which is exceedingly
pleasant to hear.
Bro. OaHE'B address is freely quoted and his opinions commented upon without
dissent. Of course Bro. MooDY is aware that Grand Master ORllE is a twig of that
old Georgia evergreen, and for that reason he may look kindly npon the doctor and
bis work.
Bro. MOODY commends the action of Grand Lodge in its efforts to establish a
Masonic Home. He commends also the address of Grand Orator.NILES SEABLB "as
abounding in attractiV£• presentations of Masonry as to its past, its spread, teachings
and its future." He quotes our Committee on Jnrisprodence on Lodge jurisdiction,
and writes kind words of the work of this writer, for which we return our thanks.
Under Idaho we note the comments of Bro. MooDY upon a decision rendered,
that" none are eligible to the office of Master bnt Present and Past Masters, Present and Past Wardens of the jurisdictions."
Bro. MooDY says in Georgia any me1nber of a Lodge in good standing is eligible
to the office of Master, fitness for the position being the only qualification required·

1896.]

Grand Lorlge of California.

669

Of coarse this q nestion of eligibility for the office of Master is governed by the
local law, and although expressed fa difterent words our law is in' entire harmony
with Georgia.
Sec. 3, of Art. 1, of Part 4, of our Constitution, says: "None bot members in
good standing, whose does are paid, shall be entitled to vote at an election, and
every voter shall be eligible to any office in the Lodge "-Take your choice, brethren.
Of the veteran Bro. PARVIN, under Iowa, be writes: "Besides himself there is
bnt a single survivor of all the Masons who organized the four original Lodges and
the Grand Lodge, Gen. WILLIAM 1.'HOllPBON, an octogenarian residing in Oregon.
Should he survive Uen. THOMPSON, he wants to write his biography, bnt •be bas Do
ambition to engage further in work of this kind, all of his old associates having
passed away.'" The other member of this committee, in triplicate, gives us his
opinions of the doings of the remaining nine or ten jurisdictions, and we stop just
long enough with Bro. W. E. M.uHFORD to emphasize the beaot.iful tribute he quotes
from . Bro. DammOND under Maine, in remembrance of the great Georgian, Grand
Master DAVIDSON:Bro. DAVIDSON was the foremost Masonic orator of the age since the death of
Bro. PIKE.. He. h~d an almost ma:rvetous perception o! the beautiful, whether in
nature or 1~ prmmples; he appreciated as few can the intrinsic moral grandeur of
Masonry; his wonderful command of language enabled him to exDr«:•s his thoughts
In words that entranced those who 'heard' and those who • read.l He was not an
actor, hnt bis eloquence sprnng from the intensity of his convictions of the right as
Go~ gave him to see it. The natnre of such a man most have been honest, pure and
lovmg. He must h:ave attracted !-11 who .met him as mnch by his pnrity as by his
strength. A beantlful. character ts sometimes an element of weakness, but Bro.
DAVIDSON'S was beauttfnl as well as grand in its strength. His loss to the Masons of
Georgia is very great, and the Craft universal share with them their sorrow and
bereavement.
M.·. W.·. JOHN P. SH&NNON was re.elected Grand .Master; R.·. W.·. ANDREW M.
WoLIBIN was re-elected Grand Secretarv.
Chairman of Correspondence, Bro. WmTEFORD S. R.l!ISAY, Dnblin.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Macon October 27,
.
1896.
IDAHO.

The Grand Lodge of Idaho convened in Special Communication Jannary 3d, in
Boise Oity, for the purpose of paying the last sad tribnte of respect and affection to
their late Grand Secretary, who died at his home January 1, 1895.
The Grand Lodge was opened by M:.·. W. •• ADELBEBT B. CLABK, Grand Master;
B.·. W.•. JONAS W. BROWN being Grand Secretary.
The funeral ceremonies were rehearsed in the Lodge, when a procession was
formed, the body conveyed to the Episcopal church, where religions services were
held, after which the remains of the Past Grand Secretary were taken to the Masonic
oemetery and buried with the usual Masonic ceremonies.
Grand Lodge returned to Masonic hall and olosed.
.A second Emergent Communication was held in Boise oity July 13, 1895, when
Grand Lodge convened to pay the last sorrowfnl tribnte to Past Grand Master
EDWARD A. STEVENSON, whose death occurred on the sixth inst. Bro. STEVENSON
was the representative of the Grand Lodge of ~alifornia near the Grand Lodge of
Idaho.
Grand Master ADELBERT B. CLABX opened the Grand Lodge, the solemn fnneral
service was rehearsed, a procession was formed and the body of the late beloved
Past Grand Master conveyed to the Masonic cemetery, where it was deposited with
tile final ceremonies of the Oraft.
Grand Lodge returned to Masonic hall and closed.

670

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

The twenty·eighth Annual Oommnnication of the Grand Lodge of Idaho was held
September 10, 1895,-M.·. W:.·. ADEL11ERT ~·CLARK, Grand Master; R.·. W.·. JoNAS
.
W. BBow!i, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge of Idaho bears upon its roll the names of twenty-seven constituent Lodges, with a membership or l,08l .Master Masons. The death roll for the
past year nnmbered thirteen.
Twenty-one of the twenty-seven Lodges were represented at this Oommanication ·
B.·. W. ·• Bro. GEORGE HINDS of Wilmington, Los Angeles Oo., represents the Gran~
.
Lodge of Idaho near the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.
A portrait of M. •• W. •• ADELBERT :S. CLARK is pnblished on the open mg page of
the journal, and portraits of the deceased Past Grand .Master and Grand Secretary
.
on memorial pages of the volume.
Six Past Grand .Masters were in attendance with one Past Depnty and eight Past
Grand Wardens and the representatives of twenty.five sister Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The Grand Master, in his Addreas, gives the brethren assurance that harmony
prevails and no clond darkens the horizon of the fotnre. .After a loving tribute to
the dea~ Past Grand Master and Past Grand Secretary and sympathetic mention of
sister jnrisdictions, who have bad presented to them the bitter cup of aftlicti?o, be
reported his official acts for the consideration of Grand Lodge. He had failed to
visit all his constituents, as be intended when assuming the duties of Grand Master;
be had, however, been with many of the Lodges, and at their homes bad enjoyed
their hospitality with enthusiastic assnrancesof their loyal support of the Landmarks
of Freemasonry as set forth and exemplified in the rules and regolatioos of the
Grand Lodge of Idaho.
He compliments the work of the Grand Lecturer, and predicts t~at by his patient,
faithful service he will bring the jurisdiction into line and place their Lodges npon a
•
par with other jnrisdiotions.
He reports several decisions of local Importance only. He recommends bien01al
eeasions as a means of reducing expenses, and that the office of Deputy Grand
Master be made elective instead of appointive, as it is now, in that jnrisdiction. He
also recommends the adoption of the Wisconsin plan of disseminating relief,
From the Grand Treasurer's report we note there is in
The General Fund............................................ Sl,4.69 45
" Representative Fnnd ...... ..... ......................... 1,463 59
" Orphan Fund ............................................ 2,8SO SS
" Interest Orphans Fond . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • . . • • • . • . • .• • . • • • • 196 5!1
" Library Fnnd ••••••••••..•••••••. . ••.•••••..•••••...•.•• ·-~~
Total cash on hand . •••••••••••••.•••.• . •.•.••• $6, 261 27
The Orphan fnnd, cash on hand and snndry bonds, which are schednled in the re•
port, amonnts to $25,037.70.
Bro. CBABLKS C. BTEVBNSON, Grand Orator, delivered an eloquent address, which
drew from Grand Lodge r. vote of thanks.
Grand Lodge received an invitation to attend a reception to be given by Aila
.
Chapter, No. 8, of the Order of Ea~tern Star.
Grand Lodge voted thanks to ihe ladies of Ada Chapter for the decoration of
Grand Lodge ball with beautiful flo""8rs.
Grand Lodge took np the subject of Mormonism, which at the last annual session ·
was referred to the Lodges to instrnct their representatives bow to vote thereon.
The following action is the resnlt thereof:WBKBBAB, In 1883 the M. •. W.·. Grand Lodge A. F. & A. • .M. of Idaho _adopted a
series of resolntions on Mormonism, based on the statement or assumption at that

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Ualifornia.

671

time "that the teachings of Mormonism were opposed to the law of the lane!, and
providing that no person acknowledgina: allegiance to the so-called Mormon cbnrcb
of Jesns Christ of llltter day saints shall be admitted to any of the privileges of
Masonry within the jnrisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Idaho," and
WBll:BEAS Said cbnrch bas satisfactorily demonstrated to the civil anthorfties of
the governm~nt, both National and State, that the teachings of the so.called Mormon
cbnrcb or Cbnrch of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, are not opposed to th., law
of the 1'and • bot, on the contrary, that the members of snch chnrch are a law abiding,
Joyal and O::orai class of people, attached to the principles of the constitution of the
UnlteJ States and well disposed to the good order and happiness of the same;
therefore, be it
Besoltied, That said resolation of the Grand Lodge be and the same Is hereby repealed and set aside, and members of said oburcb p~s~essing the i:eq_uisite qualiflca-.
tlons otherwise be and they are hereby declared ehg1ble for adm1ss1on as memhers
of the Masonic Order within this jnrisdiction, and to all the privileges of .Masonry.
We hope the result of this action will jnstify the wisdom of the Grand Lodge of
Idaho.
The Committee on Address of Grand Master reported against biennial seasions
and in favor of making the office of Depnty Grand Master elective. They a!so recommended, and Grand Lodge resolved, that the Grand Lodge of Idaho coocars in, and,
with slight changes in phraseology, adopts the proposition presented by the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin.
The Grand Lodge appropriated $250 for pay of Grand Secretary, $250 for pay
of Grand Lecturer, $100 for pay of Chairman of Correspondence.
Bro. CHARLES C. STBVBNBoN, Chairman of Oorrespondence, was elected Grand
Secretary. Bro. STBVBNBON presented the Report on Correspondence, in which he
reviews the doings of fifty-two Grand Lodges, He says this is bis eighth report,
and he is doing as well as could be expected. As a sort of reward or merit Bro.
BTKVBNSON, at the close of his report, pnblishes a "roll of honor," dedicated to
those faithful brethren who, when dnty called, were found at their posts ready to do
battle for the Grand Lodge of Idaho, either at labor or refreshment. and among the
highest on the scroll we find inscribed the name of our veteran Bro. GBOBGB BINDS.
Never worry about your interests in California, Bro. STBVENBON, while Bro. GBOBGE
is on guard.
Under California Bro. ST&VENSON reviews the administration of Grand Master
OB!llE and comments gracionsly, taking bot few exceptions to the ideas advanced, or
oe>nclnsions drawn. He says for the first time he notes a lack of interest in California
Lodges, and· thinks it doe to onr pecnliar laws, and he qnotes for an example an ex·
oerpt from the address of the Grand Master complaining of the small attendance at
"degree meetings" in large, rich and influential Lodge3, who are taking generons
care of their widows and orphans.
We can stand the reflection, Bro. BTBVBNBON, as long as yon credit ns with taking
generons care of those dependent upon us for snpport nnder onr peculiar laws.
Doctor Oallll!: was appealing in the quotation yon make for a greater and more nniform sociability among the membership of our Lodges, and was holding out the in·
dnoement of a more general attendance at meetings to Mcomplish his purpose. The
Masonic interest is not retrograding in California, Bro. STlllVBNBON.
In noticing the death of onr Past Grand Masters, Bro. STEVBNBON remarks that
onr first Grand Master was the nncle of his father; that of coarse makes him the
great nephew of our late Past Grand Master and " brother to all of ns.
The reports of that Grand Chief Justice of onrs, Bro. W111. O. BELOHEB, are pro.
nonnced profound and able prodnotions, and he declares Bro. BBLOHEB eminently
fitted for Chairman of that committee which is gaining fame for California through·
ont the land. Troe, every word, Bro. STEVBNSON, bot we conldn't keep him.
We don't know tha~ tbe Order of the Eastern Star is a Masonic organization, bnt

Proceedings of the

672

[Oct. 15,

we do know that for good deeds and acts of charity it is worthy of emulation and is
no discredit to Masons individue,lly or en masse ; long may they wave.
' lJro. STEVENSON thinks the amendment to our law providing for restoration from
suspenslon'.for non-payment of dues, subjecting the suspended brother to a further
ballot after payment, to be a" rathervigorou• la.to." We think so, too. What we
have always considered our justification for suspension for non-payment of dues was
the fact that a brother could at any time, upou payment of what he owed, restore
himself. He was suspended for a willful violation of the law he had obligated himself to stand to and abide by, and he could at any moment purge himself by pay·
ment of amount due without humiliation or confession. We look upon the amend·
ment as a premium for non-affiliation.
M.·.
ls!DORE s. WEILER was elected Grand Master; B ...
CHARLKB c.
STl!VENSON was elected Grand Secretary and Chairman of Correspondence, Boise
City •.
ILLINOIS.

w.·.

w. ·.

The Grand Lodge of Illinois held its fifty-sixth Annual Communication in the city
of Chicago, October 1, 1895,-the M.·. W.•. LEROY A. GoDD.UID, Grand Master,
R.·. lf'.·. J. B. C. DILL, Grand Secretary. The Grand Lodge of Illinois has enrolled
seven hundred and eighteen active Lodges, with a membership of 50,727 Master
Masons. Six hundred and ninety-five Lodges were represented at the present session.
This jurisdiction has a corps of sixty Deputy Grand Lecturers. It is divided into
thirty Diotricts, each of which is supervised by a District Deputy Grand_Mast~r. ~lne
Past Grand Masters were in attendance, with the Representatives of thirty-nme sister
Grand Lodges.
w.·. JoHN MoLABEN, Representative of California, was not present.
A fine portrait of a handsome young man, engraved upon the opening page of
this volume, Is said to represent the Grand Master, the M. •• W. ·.LEROY A. GODDARD.
The Grand Master opened his Address with a fervent welcome and congratula·
tions to his brethren of the Grand Lodge upon the pleasant associations connected
with the assembling of a body of Freemasons one thonsand stronjf, representing fifty
thousand of their fellow citizens of the great commonwealth of Illinois, to consider
and legislate for the interests of the Fraternity.
Referring to the loss by death of many usefnl and energetic brethren, he said :
" The last side rites have been performtid by friends and brothers. A last look, a
tear, and all that we can do now is to cherish their memory and emulate whatever
was worthy and noble in their lives." The names upon their death roll numbered
seven hundred and six for the year. He also remembered the distinguished dead of
sister jurisdictions, and mt.de feeling mention of the great loss to the Fraternity In
the death of so many of their great leaders.
In reporting the appointment of sixty Depnty Grand Lecturers, the Grand Master
said of each one of his appointees: " Be can open and clo11e a Lodge correctly; can
confer each degree in full as to every detail without the assistance of a Monitor, and
not only can he make a complete rehearsal from memory of all the ceremonies here
mentioned, but he can ask and answer correctly every question pertaining to the
three degrees, and demonstrate his ability to tea.ch the work." And, he adds, with
evident pride: "There is no such print authorized in Illinois :Masonry known BR a
•Cipher Code,' nor any other work pretending to give assistance in acquiring a
knowledge of the Esoteric work." All honor, the greatest honor, to Grand Master
GODDARD.
Nine Masonic halls were dedicated and eight corner-stones placed during the
year. No important decisionA were reported by him.
Of perpetual jurisdiction the Grand Master said, with undeniable truth:. -

Grand Lodl}e of Calif<Yrnia.

1896.]

673

"The question of perpetual control over rejected material is now engaging the
attention of nearly every Grand Jorisdiction. It has been fruitful of many disputes,
and no doobt will continue to be for vears to come. In Illinois we recognize personal
jurisdiction over rejected materiel, wherever disposed, and the same is not affected
by the lapse of time. In other words, when a candidate is once rejected by a Lodge
in our jurisdiction, we hold that he always remaius the Masonic (rejected) 1>roperty
of the rejecting Lodge notil released by a clear ballot. He may have been only
twenty-one years of age, and thoogh he may locate in another part of the world, and
Jive a life of purity and full of good deeds, the relation is unchanged. A brother who
was so fortnnate as to be made a Mason first, and thereby given the opportunity to
cast an nnfavorable ballot, may hold the brand against the applicant so long as they
both live, regardless of merit or a change of location or circumstances. Thus to
reject is to acqoire perpetual ownership-certainly a strange law, and one not sup·
ported by the Ancient Regulations.
The question has been thoroughly considered and discnssed. There is no new
argument to present. My desire is only to record a suggestion that while it is rea·
sonable and proper to retain control so long as the rejected remains in oor jorisdlcdiction, there should be a limit to the length of time of such control when he leaves
our State and locates in another territory.
By my request our Grand Secretary has corresponded with the other Grand
Jurisdictions of the United States, asking their position, and of the forty-five reports
received, " .sixteen" recognize the law of perpetual jurisdiction, and "twenty-nine"
do not.
And yet the Committee on Jnrisprodence, after consideration, make this extra·
ordinary report : "Your committee is of the opinion that the observance of this
system of •inter-jurisdictional oumity' (that's a new name for it) tends to protect
the rights of Individual brethren, promote harmony, and conserve the principles of
11 common brotherhood. Yoor committee is also of the opinion that a change in so
Important and long established featore of the general Masonic law woold be in the
nature of an innovation, and not warranted by the best interests of the <Jraftatlarge.
Therefore unwise, and not desirable."
And that's the plea of perpetual jurisdiction-an innovation sanctioned by twenty.
nine Grand Lodge ayes to sixteen noes.
The Grand Master recommends the recognition of the Grand Lodge of the Ieland
of Cuba.
The Grand Ma.ster made many visitations, and, judged by the record, he was certainly au active Grand Master.
The Treasnrer reports a cash balance of $43,247.17, in addition to which the Grand
Lodge holds Oity of Chicago fonr per cent. bonds amounting to $40,500.
The Grand Lodge, under the escort of .Apollo Commandery of Knights Templar,
proceeded to De Kalb, where they laid the corner-stone of the Northern llinols
Normal University. Above five thoosand Ma.sons were in attendance. The corn,
wine and oil used in the ceremonies were brought from Jernsalem by M. •• W.·. JOHN
0. BKITH, who was just returned from the Holy Land. The ceremonies were performed in accordance with the ancient costoms of the Fraternity, at the conclusion
of which the Grand Lodge returned onder their escort to Ohicago.
The Oommittee on Necrology made an elaborate report.
The oftlcers for the ensuing year were elected, and the Grand Master-elect desired
to name for the position of Grand Orator, R.·. W.·. Bro. ADLAI E. STEVlllNBON, Vice·
President of the United States. Bro. i:!TllVBil'SON being compelled to leave the city
before the time set for installation, Grand Master GODDARD ordered the Grand Marshal to present Bro. BTEVKN80N, and he was installed as Grand Orator. In response,
Bro. BuVllNBON made a most eloqoent allusion to his connection with the Fraternity,
and paid an aft'ectionate tribute to the Grand Lodge of Illinois.
The R.·. W.·. JOHN C. BLJ.CK, Grand Orator, delivered an eloquent oration upon
the subject of the passing centnry.
This volume brings us another splendid report from
Bro. JosBPH Ros.

M.·. W.·.

8

674

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

BINS, Past Grand Master and Oorrespondent. The paper is a grand one, fnll of
practical Information npon Masonic qnestions of the kind desired by thonghtfnl
brothers, and is a production not only creditable to its anthor, but one that reflects
honor and repntatlon upon the Grand Lodge of Illinois. He gives a full and complete review of sixty American Grand Lodges, with the Foreign Grand Bodies,
excepting only Scotland.
Of the questions nnder discussion, probably the Representative qneation has been
forced to the front in advance of others of decidedly more importance to the Fra·
ternity. Bro. RoBBlllS thinks it bas "pasaed the centre,'' and the interest in the life
or death' of the distinguished diplomats is practically over. '[·he qnestlon of jnrlsdiction over rejected material he aSBerts to be the "barning one," and threatens to
some extent the friendly relations of Graad Lodges.
He says the generally adverse action on the " uniform roles" proposed by Mississippi indicates that, as yet, the Craft is far from being impressed wit~ the importance of the proposal. The Wiscoaaia proposition Bro. RoBBINB uneqwvocally con·
demna as an insidious departure from the Masonic plan.
On the question of non-affiliation, Bro. RoBBINS is not in sympathy with our legislation. He thinks, however, that every twist we give the "frate~nal thamb screw "
is a mighty help towards a dispassionate reconsideration of the status of non-affill·
ates.
Bro. ROBBINS has made diligent search through our proceedings, and declares that
the Representative of Illinois, W. •. Bro. JoBN MCMURRY, Is not to be found.
He compliments the Address of Grand Master OBKK for its ability, but thi~ke
some of its sentiments most have made the hair of some of the older members rise
like qnills npon the fretfal porcupine. He makes sympathetic allnsion to the death
of onr eldest and youngest Grand Masters. He notes with satisfaction Grand Lodge
action in regard to reasonable expenditures for social purposes, especially as guarded
by the proviso attached.
Referring to the matter of a Lodge Instructing its Master how to vote in Grand
Lodge, he says:In the following the Grand Master follows the strange doctrine which first
oropped out in Ohio a few years ago as an incident of the O~rnean controver~y :
Queition. Oan a Lodge instruct a Master to vote a certain way on a question that
.
is expected to coine before the Grand Lodge?
.Afll1.Der. Yes; and at the meeting of the Grand Lodge the Master ~an vote on
the question as he sees proper. He is sappoaed to be compe~ent to .decide, and bis,
action Is final. He cannot be compelled to vote contrary to his beat Judgment.
Bro. ROBBINS says: "Happily, this failed of approval, the Grand Lodge agreeing
with the Jnrisprudence Committee in the following. [We simply give here the meat
of the report.]
The Regulations adopted by the Grand Lodge of England in 17~1 show conclneiv:ely
that the Master and Ward.ens were receiv:ed to represent the will of their conetitu·
encies upon all questions 10 regard to which that will had been declared.
The tenth of those Regulations reads :The majority of every particular Lodge, when congregated, shall have ~he privilege of giving instructions to their Master and Wardens befo!e t~e aRSembhog of the
Grand Ohapter or Lodge, at the three Quarterly Oomll!aDlcations hereafter men·
tioned, and of the Annual Grand Lodge, too, beca~e t~e1r Masters and Wardens are
their representatives and are supposed to speak their mmd.
This Regalatioo, with only a slight change in form, is still a part of the written
Constitution of the Grand Lodge of England.
The Constitution of the Grand Lodge of Maeaachusctts says:-

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Oaij/ornia.

675

The majority of the members of any Lodge, when duly assembled shall have the
right to instract their Master and Wardens as their representatives 1r{ Grand Lodge.
In closing, the committee say:The natnral inference from the language there used would be that whenever the
Lodge ~ad declared its will, t~e representative would be under obligation to respect
it: bat it n~ed not rely upon mferencea ~ be dr~wn, because, in our judgment, the
old Regulation which we have qaoted Is 10 force 1n this jarisdiction and dechues the
law by which we must be governed until this Grand Lodge shall abrogate or modify
.

~

Bro. ROBBlllS comments npon this report. He says:The closing !ords of the committee seem to indicate that in their opinion the
Grand Lodge nught abrogate or modify the principle embodied in the old Regulation
For oar part, we regard the right as being rooted in the structure of the Institution·
an~ hence beyond the powe~ of the Grand Lodge rightfully to deny or modify. Th~
existence of the Regulation 1s proof that this was the view of the fathers who col·
lated and agreed to the immemorial law.
We think the conclasions of Bro. RoBBUIS upon the report incontrovertible . His
criticisms, however, upon the Grand .Master's decisions, based upon physical defects
In the case quoted of dismemberment, will not be allowed, said decisions being
atrictly in accordance with our Oonstitutional requirements.
The acts of our Board of Relief are quoted; Bro. NILBe BICABLB' address is commended, and the writer hereof receives from Bro. ROBBINS courteous treatment and
more credit than be deserves.
M.·. W.·. OwxN SoOTT was elected Grand Master; B.·. W:·. J. H. O. DILL was
re-elected Grand Secretary.

INDIANA.
The Grand Lodge of Indiana held its seventy-fifth Annual Oommunlcation In the
city of Indianapolis, May 26, 1896,-the M.·. E.·. EnwABD O'Rouau:, Grand Master,
R.·. W.·. WILLlill. H. BKYTllJI, Grand Secretary. The foar hnudred and eighty-one
Lodges of Indiana.have a membership of 28,439 .Master Masons. Four hundred and
elghty Lodges were represented at this Communication. The death roll for the year
numbered four hundred and fifty. Foarteen Past Grand .Masters responded to roll
call.
Portraits of the Grand Masters who have occnpied the Grand East of the Grand
Ledge of Indiana since its organization in 1818, with the exception of eight blanks
~ be hereafter Oiied, make this a moat interesting volame. The list embraces
names of National as well as State reputation, men eminent for their services to their
ooantry, as well as to Masonry. A view of the l\nilding in which Grand Lodge was
organized very properly accompanies this illaminated history of Masonry in Indiana.
Oar Right Worahipfal Bro. BKYTHB deserves the thanks of the Fraternity for his valuable addition to the Masonic libraries of the ooantry.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
After appointing the committees, the Grand Master proceeded to deliver his An·
nual Address.
After a brief dissertation upon the aims and progress of Masonry in Indiana, he
paid a feeling tribute to those devoted brethren who commenced the journey with
them, bat in obedience to the Divine command had "gone before to that unknown
and silent shore," and were resting from their labors. In his notice of those eminent
bre~hr.en of sister jurisdictions who have crpssed tbe dark river and joined the great
maJority daring the past year, we are surprised to see the name of Past Grand Mas·
ter and Grand Secretary MICHABL NISBET, of Pennsylvania, who died at his home,

.,

[Oct. 15,

Proet,edings of the

676

I' ht bas been extingnished in the death of Bro. MICHAEL
:May 7, 1896. A great ig .
"ll be cherished by the Masons of Pennsyl·
NISBET, and we know that bIB memory w1

van~~ Grand :Master reports an order and writ of prohibi~on issued by ~he G;and

e
B • w;. Bro HENDEBSON, referring to the sta ns o one
.Master of Penneylvan1a, • • be' •
• • d . Indian•L although formerly refneed
G
E SNYDEB who bad
en receive m
..,
Bro. KOBG
.
nd in his writ of prohibition, he says : "Now• t~erefore, I,
by PenllBy;a~~ERSON Right Worshipfnl Grand :Master of :Masons 1Il Pennsyl·
M.l~HliSd Masonic jurisdictions thereunto belonging, by virtue o! t~e p~w:s and

asv:~h:r:~: !nv:~:res::~· :: :i::e:;0~;:i:1:!~Y~:~~::~~ ~:: ~~:~:t :r~~a~~t::~::
1

NYDE
.
• .
h ever to said GEORGE SNYDlliB·"
anyT:Mh as~=~e~:~:1~; ;;;~:na considers the issuance of this circular an ln~ult. to
e
Bro HENDEBSOM le not cult1vatmg
G d Lodge 11f I nd'1ana, an d thi'nks B.• • w:.
·•
·
t
::t e~~it of "amity• fraternity and charity which should characterize a represen aLove.''
.
f h
t\ve of the City of Brotherly
R
o t e
When shall we have a egnIat'ion that will furnish a reasonable solut1on
. t "fl.
to
.
urisdiotion? It seems to be the one thing needed-barnng r1 esqnesti~ni:! !ocietles of Freemasons into an association as unselfish as Faith, a::rmly
cemhen d ••Hope and as bonndleBB as Charity. What a relief from the eel !mess
anc ore •
of ~:e~:a~~::i~~~::~~stituted during the year, and six dispensations issued for

the ~~rmatl::~~ru::n~~d!::; laid for the erection of new buildings. Three :Masonic
halls ':ee:e dedicated, and altogether, the year seems to have been a busy one for our

bre:::~~~::~aa:~~r pays a well·deeerved compliment to the efficient ~r:nd Secre·
sks the Grand Lodge to provide for him the mnch needed ass1s ance.

tar~h:n~:and Master reported the resignation of the .Junior Grand Warden, Bro.
A M.Acol411EB on account of bis removal to Chicago.
.
GEOTBhGeEGr.•nd Master• had, as usual, to answer many questions, a fewWohf which he
d
·
·
he
says
ere a mem·
f ufficient Importance to report. In ec1s10n one,
·· "
h
deems o B
ment of dues and falls within one year from t e·
ber has been su~pended fo::eo::~ and after th~ expiration of the year p~titions the
date of snspens100 tot payt' t me:Obership and the mode of procedure is duly fol·
for res ora ion o
•
· but
Proper Lodge
.
·
· ue vote of the Lodge
to restore him to mem bersh1p,
lowed, 1t requires 8 t~namm~
. •ty vote of the Lodge then his status is that of
If the petitioner receives on Y a m&Jor1
. . ,,
'
ffi!' ted :M BOD &Dd be iB entitled to B d1m1t.
an ~~aco~~ee the aabo~e decision ie governed by the Indiana c;de, t~na~ :oent~:::
1
0
quote it to ex~reBB onrffidl~otldde~~:::~ro;;~ ~!~~d :;;rora ~%m~:m for restoration,
to manufacturing una 1a e
•
.
· te d of placing a bar thereto.
.
h
me T:e Grand Master's rulings 88 to physical qualifl.catione are liberal, mnc more so
D

tha;:u~~t:r;~;1 ::e:::::~nry in Indiana is being written by a very eminen~ ~m·

mitteee composed of Bros. D.lNIEL :MoOOMild>, THOIU.S B. LONG and WILL . NG·
'Th ommittee reported the work well under way.
LISH.
ec
dg
f d to throw the Past Master's Degree over among the rub•
The Grand Lo e re use
bish.
.
rted in the hands of the Grand Treasurer, In
The Committee on Accoun•"
... repo

bank andTinvestedBeLeco~G·t1~~e~4~~=d4'iaeter, submitted the following report on the
Bro. ROMAS . ~ •
Wisconsin Plan of Masonic Relief:-

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

677

Your Committee on J urisprudenoe have given careful and respectful cousidera.tiou to the propoeitiou ooming from the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin, that "it is the
duty of the Lodge to take care of Its own members in dietreBB, wherever they may
be· and that in case of its inabilily to do so, this duty devolves upon the Grand
Lodge from which it holds its charter"-totally, but fraternally dissent from any such
position, and recommend that this Grand Lodge declines to take any steps towards
an inter·jarisdictlonal enactment tending to eft'ect such an understanding or arrangement.
The Grand Lodge of Indiana has at all times contended and held that a Mason in
distress ie entitled to aid and assistance from the Fraternity wherever he may be at
the time of his need, and that, as &matter of law, his Lodge is not bound to make
u.ny restitution, though it may do eo at its own option.
The Report on Correspondenoe ie again presented by Bro. WILLIAM CoJOrOMB, and,
like his former papers, Is a readable and instructive journal of the doings of the
Masonic legiel&tnres of the world for the year ending :May, 1896. But what's the matter, Bro. CoMXoMs? Have yoa made sufficient wealth to retire, or are you going
into politics? Then,
Farewell ! A word that must be, and hath beenA sound whioh makes us linger; yet-farewell.
Bro. OoMXOMS commences by charging Bro. H.lBBISON, Grand M11Bter of Alabama,
with telling a whopper In a decision that was intended to " spread and communicate
light and instruction " to the Grand Lodge of Alabama. ,
Arkansas he finds in a deplorable condition, being sadly affilcted with a case of
perpetual jurisdiction.
Bro. Co1omNS reports Arizona in a bad way, with a Tombstone at the head upon
which is inscribed the name of the Grand :Master.
His review of California is of the administration of Grand Master BTEVB.!18, whose
jurisdiction is favored with peace and prosperity, although wearing the badge of
mourning for their two beloved Paet Grand Masters, BELOHEB and BBown, the latter
of whom had his personal acquaintance, and of whom he writes in terms of the high·
est respect and esteem. He is also Impressed with the affectionate regard shown by
the Grand Lodge in erecting a monument in memory of the accomplished workman,
Past Grand Master LBOMIDAS E. PBATT, and the kind and fraternal atteution bestowed
upon the Senior Past Grand :Master,. JOHN ASHBY Ttrrr, in his declining years. Bro.
CollllONS notes tbe active diBBemination of charity by our Board of Relief, and
gives us credit for good intentions in the projected enterprise of erecting a Home
for the wards of the jurisdiction. In closing his report Bro. Co:awol!ll uses kind
words regarding this writer, which, we llBBnre him, are heartily reciprocated,
With the legislation of Colorado he ie in thorough and hearty accord, and rejoices
with Oonnecticut in the successful establishment of their Masonic Home •.
In the record of Delaware he fl.nde an occasion for reminding the descendants of
the "Blue Hen" of the beauties of perpetual jurisdiction. And eo on through the
list of Grand Lodges Bro. Co:awoNB notes and comments, with charity to all and with
malice towards none.
M.'. ff'.'. BIKEON P. GILLETT was elected Grand Master; B..·. W.·. WILLiill :e:.
SKYTH£ was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Paet Grand Master NICHOLAS B. RuonB, of Indianapolis, was appointed Ohairma.n of Oommittee on Correspondence.
INDIAN TERRITORY.
The Grand Lodge of Indian Territory held a Special Communication in the town
of Caddo, December 6, 1894, for \he purpose of dedicating the new hall of Oaddo
Lodge, No. 3,-the M.-. W.·. Jon COYLE, Grand Master; the B.·. W.-. JosEPH S.
llUBsow, Grand Secretary. .Many members of adj oinlng Lodges were present.

678

Proce.edinge of the

[Oct. 15,

The twenty-second Annnal Commnnication was held at A.toka, Choctaw Nation,
Angnst 13, 1895;
There are sixty-fonr chartered Lodges in this jnrisdlotion, and nine nnder dispensation, with a membership of 2568 MBSter Masons. Fifty-fonr of the chartered
Lodges and seven U. D. were represented.
Past Grand :Master GROBGR C. PERKINS represents the Grand Lodge of Indian
Territory near the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.
There were in attendance five Past Grand Masters, three Past Depnty Grand
Masters, and the representatives of twenty·seven sister Grand Jnrlsdiotions.
An address of welcome was delivered In behalf of Oklahoma Lodge, No. i, by
Bro. JosEPH S. MURROW, Grand Secretary and Past Grand Master, which WllS
responded to, on behalf of the Grand Lodge, by Rev. Bro. ROBERT WrLLLU[ HILL.
The Grand MBSter delivered his Annnal Address. He returned thanks to the
Supreme Architect for his goodness and mercy for their prosperity and fntnre
promise. He congratnlated them on having safely passed the twenty-first milestone
in. their history, and hoped, 118 they had prospered in the past, they shoald continue
to improve and become better men and Masons In the fotnre.
He referred to the nnusoal death record of the year and expressed his deep sorrow and heartfelt sympathy with the stricken jnrlsdict.lon. He had visited twenty
Lodges dnrlng the year.
Among his decisions, we note thl' following, which we consider a very dangerous one:Oan we Initiate en Indian who cannot speak or nnderstand the Engllsh langnage?
Yes; provided yon have a good interpreter.
A case of jurisdictional claim and denial has been exercising the brethren of
Missouri and Indian Territory since Angust, 189(, and all on account of one BEN F.
L.l.FAYBTTB, claiming to be a citizen of Missouri and within the jorlsdictlon of
I>ecatur Lodge, No. 400, Pierce Oity, Mo., which Lodge he petitioned for the degrees
of Masonry. This coming to the knowledge of the Grand Master of Indian Territory
he at once informed the Grand Master of Missouri that Mr, BEN F. LAF.1.Y.KTTR was
a resident of Indian Territory, and had been residing in the jurisdiction of <Jhecotah
Lodge for six or s9ven years. He requested the Grand Master of Missonri to cause
all proceedings to be at once stopped.
It would seem to be a case of Mr. LAFAYBTTJC 1B maintaining his residence at his
former home in Missouri while permanently engaged in bnsiuess in the Territory,
The laws of both Missouri and the Territory require twelve months' residence in the
State. Under this law Indian Territory claims tllat Mr. LAFAYBTTB, or any other man,
who bas lived In the Territory for twelve months, and is now living there, if he wishes
to become a Mason, mnst petition a Lodge In that jurisdiction.
Grand Master CoTLB says, in closing his last Jetter:There are abont 40,000 white men in this jurisdiction who have lived and done
bnslness io other conntries besides this, and hnndrede of them now do their banking
in Kansas, Missouri and Texas, and have otller business interests in those States and
many ot.ber places, but still we claim, and the Masonic world says we have the right
to this claim, that if aur of those men wish to become Masons they must petition a
Lodge in this jurisdiction. This position we are bound to maintain ; otherwise we
would have no jurisdiction over any white man living in this Territory.
The claim of Indian Territory appears to be well founded, and we anticipate no
arrest of amicable relations between the parties to this fraternal contest.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by Past Grand Master Jose:PH S.
MUBBOw, an old time faithful worker in the Masonic vineyard. The review is a
oritical commentary on the doings of fifty-seven Masonic Grand Lodges whose legislation controls the Masonic sentiment of the world. Bro. Mussow believes in keep·

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Californi,a.

679

Ing to the_ old ways, a.ad w~nld not 1?ix a~c~ent customs even by the Joint occnpancy
of Masonic Ralls. His notice of Oabforma 1s for the administration of Grand Mast
er
ORME and is very complimentary.
Grand Master CoYLB, so Bro. MUl\BOW says, closed a letter with the words, "th
proceedings of California are simply Immense." In addition, Bro. MURROW says~
''We expected that the address of Grand Master OBMJC, 'an old Georgian,' won
be a good one, and we are not in the le11<1t disappointed."
The decisions of the Grand Master, the general legislation of the Grand Lodge
and its oommittee reports are oommended.
Of the Grand Orator's oration, he says :-

Id

W." Bro. N1c.11:s 81!.1.RLS delivered an excellent or11tlon. In it he disonssed various &objects. "The Spread of :Masonry,'' "The Religions Teaching of MllBonry"
"The ..otnre.'' Under this last head be thinks, with onr present raLe of increas~
in another century our. country will contain a population of six hundred millio~
pe<_>ple. That a p~pn~ation of such density must entail untold deprivation and soffermg upon a maJor1ty. But epidem_lcs, plagues and war may come ai cheerful
m~ssengers to stay this vast PO,PUiatioo. That the general defusion of knowledge
will prevent anarchy and despotism.
And of the proposed Mississippi roles, he says:The propo~ed, r~les emanating from the Grand Lodge of Mississippi relating to
the perpetual ~ar1sd1ct1on system _an~ ~o the.advancemen t of Entered Apprentices and
Fellow Crafts ID other Grand J ur1sd1ct1ons, is also discussed at great length and very
profitably. These rules. wer_e n~t adopted, bat a hearty expression was given that
the Grand Lodge of Cabforma will be ready to join with otller Grand Bodies In the
enactment of some general law th!lt will relieve Entered Apprentices and Fellow
Crafts and will give to them all the liberty they can reasonably ask.
He kindly notices the work of this correspondent.
The M.·. W.·. JOHN 0oYLJC was re-elected Grand Master; the B.·. W.·. JOSEPH
S.l.MUJCL MURaow was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence , Past Grand Master JoBBPH BAl£1JICL MURROW, Atoka.
The n~xt Annual Communication will be held iu the city ofMnskogee, the second
Tuesday ID Angnst, 1896.
An Emerg~nt Communication of the Grand Lodge of Indian Territory for the
pnrpose of lay1Dg the corner-stone of the Presbyterian Church at Sooth McLester,
was held February 25th, 1896. A procession was formed nuder the direction of the
Grand Marshal, and proceeded to site of the proposed Church, where the cornerstone was placed in accordance with the ancient ceremonies of the Craft.
The twenty-third Annual Commnnication of the Grand Lodge was held at Mns·
kogee, Creek Nation, Angnst 11th, 1896,-M.-. W.·. JOHN COTLlll, Grand Master·
R.·. ~· •· J OBBPH .SAMUBL.MURROW, Grand Secretary. Seventy-four chartered Lodges:
with SIX under dispensation, of which seventy-six are represented at the present
session. Names upon the death roll, forty-four. Total membership, 2,908. Twenty•
eight sis~er Grand Lodges were represented. Grand Lodge was opened in Ample
Form, with prayer by R.-. W.-. R-0BERT WILLIAM HILL, acting Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master extended a fraternal welcome to the brethren who bad "come
op " to join In the pleasures and duties of the twenty-third Annual.
He referred to the visitation of death within the circle of their own Grand
Lodge and announced the departure of their beloved DAVID DALLAS, Junior Grand
~a~deo, to his eternal rest. His brief eulogy was foll of meaning, "A young man
m his prime, loved and respected b'y.all who knew him."

680

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

The Grand Master r6ported his visitation of forty-two Lodges dnring the year• .
He was exceedingly gratified at the resnlts and earnestly nrged npon his snccessors
in the Grand East a continnance in his good example.
He issned five dispensations for the formation of new Lodges.
His reported decisions are of local Import and are not of Interest to the Oraft in
general.
He Is opposed to the joint occnpancy of Masonic Halls; says they have had an
election In a certain town in the Territory, and " difficulties having arisen among
the brethren" in consequence thereof, he admonishes them to plow their corn, hoe
the cotton, raise potatoes and attend Lodge meetings and let politics alone, bot if
they most enjoy it, for Masonry's sake, to keep It ontside the Lodge.
At the fast session of Congreas an Act was passed incorporating the Grand
Lodge of Indian Territory, but -failed of passage in the Senate, for which we think
the brethren sbonld be thankfnl. Why in the name of Masonry they should wish to
"sne and be sned, plead and be impleaded," In any court of law or equity we don't
understand. Probably when some constituent attempts to expel JOHN SMITH for
gro.ss unmasonic condnct, and JOHN SMITH, by bis attorney, serves the Master,
Wardens and brethren with a writ direoting them to show cause why they should
not be enjoiaed from trespaasing npon the rights of JOHN SHITB by expelling him
from all the rights and privileges of MaRonry, then, and not until then, will they ap·
preciate In all its far reaohlni excellence the Incorporation of Grand Lodge or its
subordinates.
Grand Secretary says some of the Lodges find it difficnlt to pay Hrand Lodge
does; the lisi of snspensfons for non-payment Is more than twice that of any former
year. He pleads for leniency towards poor members and says that Charity and Fra·
ternity are worth more than money. And he feelingly says: "Brethren, while we
are righteonsly considering the claims of the orphan children and widowd among ns,
let us not forget or neglect onr old brethren who are poor and needy."
The Grand Lectnrer and Grand Oustodfan made reports.
The Grand Orator, R.'. W.-. Bro. Bev. RoBEBT W. HILL, delivered an able and
interesting addreBB-snbject," The Name of God," which is pnblisbed in the jonrnal.
This jurisdiction bas the care and snppori of thirty-six orphan children.
An appe&I was made in behalf of two worthy and needy objects of charity, and
in response thereto $86 was placed upon the altar and divided between the needy
ones.
The rPtiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand Master's jewel.
Past Grand Muster Bro. P. J. BYRJllll: reqnested that the value of a jewel, $50,
voted him by Grand Lodge at a former session, be paid into the Widows' and Or·
phans' Home Fond, and It was so ordered.
Tbe Grand Treasurer made a statement of the financial condition of Grand Lodge
and affirmed that a continn11nce in the present policy wonld resnlt ln bankrnptcy in
the near future. Whereupon Bro. B. W. HILL moved and Grand Lodge

Re1ol11ed, That the Grand Master, Grand Treasnrer and Grand Secretary be ap·
pointed an Executive Committee, with power to apportion the amonnt expended for
the llissemination of the work daring the ensnlng year, and iake Into consideration
all the Grand Lodge @alaries and expenses, and report a schedule ai our next Annual Commnnication, bot all expenses to be kept within the income of the Grand
Lodge.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by Past Grand Master LEO E. BKNwho assumes charge of correspondence In relief of Bro. MUBBow. Bro.
BENNETT writes an excellent report becanee he is interested in the matter he Is reviewing. He classes non-affiliation as the snbject ranking in importance to the
Craft everywhere with perpetnal jnriadiotion and the publication of the Ritnal In
NBTT,

1896.]

Grand · Lodge of California.

681

close company. His review of Oalifornia is of the administration of Grand Master
JAMES B. STEVENS, from whose Address he qaotes with commendation, styling It a,
sensible business docnment. He is pleased that their representative, M.'. W.'. GEO,
o. PERKINS, is at bis post to attend to the Interests of the Grand Lodge of Indian
Territory. He thinks onr system and Boards of Relief a practical exemplillo&tion
of the teach lags of Masonry.
The report of the Committee on Griev&nce Is pronounced "a model," without a
superfiaons word.
The work of the writer on Correspondence receives kind treatment at the hands
of Bro. BBNNKTT and hopes to meet him &gain.
M.'. W.·. Srus ARldSTRONG was elected Grand Master; B.'. W.·. JoSIU'H SAllllUBL
JdUBROW was re-eleded Grand Secretary.
The next Annaal Oommnnication will be held at Ardmore, Chickasaw Nation, on
the second Tnesday in Angnst, 1897.
0

IOWA.

The Grand Lodge of Iowa held its fifty-third Aooaal Oommnnlcatlon in the city
of Boone, Jane 2d, 1896. The memben of Grand Lodge were escorted by Ezcalibur Oommandery of Knights Templar to the First Methodist Oburcb, where Grand
Lodge convened for the session. There were present M.'. W.-. GEORGE WASHING·
TON BALL, Gra.nd Master; R ... w... THEODORE s. PABVIN, Grand Secretary. Foor
hnndred and six of the four hnodred and eixty-eigbt active Lodges of the jnrisdiction were represented. Seven Past Gra.nd Masters and eleven Past Gra.nd Wardens
were in attendance,
A handsome portrait of Depnty Grand Secretary, NEWTON RAY PARVIN, appears
npon the opening page of this fine volnme of proceedings.
The Grand Master welcomed the brethren to the duties and pleasnres of the
Annnal Commanic&tioo. Be gave them greetings of brotherly love and good will,
and invoked the blessings of peace and harmony npon the deliberations of the session. He presented in delightfnl contrast the condition of the people of foreign
lands-nfllicted with the terrors of war waged with the crnelty of religious fanaticism-with that of the Amerioan citizen whose good fortnne located him in the garden
1po1 of the world-" oar own beantifnl Iowa."
Aud the band played" Home Sweet Home."
After Impressing upon the brethren the dnty of returning thanks for the many
blessings received dnring the progress of a happy and prosperons year, the Gra.nd
Master proceeded to report bis official acts for the consideration of Grand Lodge.
He issued nine dispensations for the formation of new Lodges, and officiated at
the pl&cing of five corner-stones preparatory to the erection of new bnildings.
Foor Lodges had their halls destroyed by fire a.nd one Lodge surrendered its
charter.
The Grand Master presented for the consideration of Grand Lodge the matter of
the disposition of Lodge property, including real estate, which, in cases of the revocation or surrender of chatter, would become the property of Grand Lodge. He
said it bad occasioned considerable inqniry, and believed that some authoritative
declaration should be m&de defining the position of Grand Lodge npon the subject.
Be said it was not the policy of Grand Lodge to build itself up at the expense of its
coostitoents, and be snbmitted for their action an amendment to the organic law
which he reqnested be snbmitted to the Oommittee on Jorisprndence for their action
thereon.
The following is his proposed amendment:Nooe of the real estate or property owned by a snbordfnate Lodge, or the mem·
bel'8 thereof, except the property described in Section as, shall, upon the snrrender

682

ProceedingB of the

[Oct. 15,

or revocation of the Oharter of such snbordlnate Lodge, or upon its_ becoming extinct or dernnct, become the property or the Grand Lodge, and shall m no case be·
come the property of Grand Lodge except by pnrobase.
The Grand Master condemns the noe of ciphers, which it would seem is prevalent
among the Craft in Iowa. He says the action of Grand Lodge two years ago de·
clares the sale of such books 11 Masonic olfense, hot does not declare their USE IN
MASONIC LODGES by members of the Order a Masonic offense, and he recommends
the Committee on Jurisprudence to make it plainer.
In reporting bis exercise of the powers and duties of Grand Master during the
recess of Grand Lodge, he indulges in the following comments upon the liberal nse
of that wonderful lever for the removal of obstacles and the exaltation of the Supreme Head known as "The Grand Prerogative":In years irooe by, when I was young in Masonrv,I looked upon the Grand Master
of the Grand Lodge In Iowa as 11 being endowed with superhuman power over the
Craft. When clothed In the jewels and regalia of bis office be arose in the Grand
East, be appeared to me as the embodiment of all Masonic power and authority,
as one who could suspend or enforce the Jaw at will, and wbo•e every order most be
implicitly obeyed by the Orart. Many years of service in the ranks of the Order
had izreatly modified my early Impressions as to the powers of the Gr~nd Master,
bot it was left for one year's service in the office to impress upon me with fall force
his true condition, and the very limited powers with which he is clothed. While
the Grand Master is the executive officer of the Oraft for his term of office,. yet his
duties and his powers are carefully prescribed by Jaw, and he is bound to r11spect
and obey its pro'Oisiom to the same ex.tent as the youngest Entered ,ipprentice.
Italics ours.
He reports many applications for the use of his "prerog," and closes lhe subject
with these fitting words:1 have been asked to grant dispensations in many other cases where I had no
authority under tbe law to do so. I have in all such cases refused the d1speusatlon,
believing that the interests of the Order at large would be better promoted by a
compliance with the law than by attempting to suspend it, or to so construe it as to
1,11eet special circumstances.

The Grand Master is opposed to the Wiaconsiu rules for the dissemination of
charity. He closes his dissenting argument with the words: "I am In favor of the
broadest Masonic charity when voluntarily exercised, but am opj>Osed to any law or
role that provides for charity under compulsion."
The Grand Master says :Many years ago the Grand Lodge recognized the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons and the Grand Commandery of Knights Templar of Iowa, a.nd now by
expresa provisions of law holds fraternal relations with each of said bodies. Which
condition seems to be threatened by the approval of the Grand Commaodery of an
obsolete ruling of the Grand Encampment of the United States concerning the
status of oon-alJiliates, by which members of the Lodge who are also members of
the Commandery are placed in an unpleasant position by lieiog compelled to hold
fraternal intercourse with Masons who cannot visit the Lodge, walk in Masonic proce88ioos, receive Masonic aid or burial. This Is the result of a report by Grand
Commandery approving the Grand Encampment ruling, making it the law of Grand
Commaodery that 11 non-affiliate Mason may not only hold membership in the Com·
mandery but he may petition for and receive the Orders of Knighthood while he Is
11 non-affiliate.
As Brother SPEED, of .Mississippi, very pertinently asks: Now what is to be
done? We answer: The ooo-cootribntiog non-affiliate cannot sit in a Commaodery
in California because the highest power in Masonry, the Grand Lodge, forbids its
members to hold Masonic intercourse with suspended Masons-Grand Encampment
to the contrary notwithstanding.

1896.J

(kand Lodge of California.

683

The Grand Master closed his Address with an eloqnent allusion to absent brethren
who had left them for that resting place from which none ever return, and to whose
memories 11 tribute would be submitted by the Committee on Fraternal Dead.
Bro. PARVIN submits his fifty-second Annual Report, illustrated and ornamented
with valuable relics. Coples of the petition for dispensation for the first Iowa Lodge,
iBBned November 21, 1840. Also a view or the first and second Masonic Halls at
Burlington and Blamingtoo. The report also contains tributes of respect and alfec·
tion to the two eminent deceased Grand Secretaries; Bro. WIL~IAH BBY~N lsAAc_a,
of Virginia. and Bro. MICHAEL NIBBBT, of Pennsylvania, who died at their posts m
the performance of doty.
Bro. PARVIN's report as Librarian follows his report as Grand Secretary. It is
enough to say of the paper, that it· is worthy It.a place in the" Annals," and of its
author, who seems to have voiced hie soul's moat earnest wish in the quotation at
the head of his opening :Books bring me friends where'er on earth I beSolace of solitude, bonds of society;
Here talk I with the wise in ages gone,
And with the noble gifted in our own.
Ao Interesting page in the report is the one devoted to a description and print of
"11 0 old Masonic pitcher," now in the collection of Gen. JoHN 0. SIUTB, of Chicago,

the lllostrioos Masonic student, traveler and correspondent.
The Committee on Grand Master's Address gave that paper their earnest ap·
proval, and complimented him for the faithful, zealons and able discharge of all his
duties to the Craft.
An entertainment, consisting or a reception, with music and addresses, was given
in honor of Grand Lodge by the Masons of Boone. •
The Committee on Fraternal Dead made 11 most eloquent and feeling report in
memory of the illustrious dead whose names have been inscribed upon the death
roll of the year. Among the names we note that of our brother, companion and friend,
Past Grand Master WILLIAH c. BELCHER.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Grand Master, the Committee on
.Jurisprudence reported the following amendments to the Code, which were adopted
bv Grand Lodge :SEc. 00. Whenever any Lodge shall voluntarily surrender Its Charter, or the
same shall be arrested or revoked, it shall be the duty of the Master, Secretary and
Treasurer of the Lodge, and each of them, to at once, or in such time as th~ Grand
Lodge or the Grand Master may order, forward to the Grand Secretliry. at his office,
all the books, papers, jewels, working tools, columns, charts, and other ~asoolo
Lodge paraphernalia incident to and proper for Lodge work, and al~o suftlc1eot of
the funds of the Lodge to pay all amounts doe or to becom~ doe. durmg the year to
ihe Grand Lodge. The nee in the Lodge room of moemomcs, c1p.hers, keys, skel_e·
ton or printed matter of any kind, purporting to emb<!dY the aowrJtti;n work or R1tu11l Is hereby prohibited and declared to be a Masomc offense; provided, however,
that nothing herein shall' be construed to avply to the nse of the usual accepted
1
Monitors.
The Special Committee on the Wisconsin plan of relief reported their concurrence in the views of the Grand Master, and recommended that no change be made on
the subject of Masonio relief and charity, which was concurred in by Grand Lodge.
Memorial table$s are inserted in memory of the following illustrlons Past Grand
Masters:-

684

Proce,edings of the

[Oct. 15,

Grand Lodge of Oal,iforuia.

685

IRELAND.

WILLIAM CALDWELL BBLCBEB, of California.
WILLIAM E. SANFOBD, of Oonneoticat.
ALBEBT J. RusSELL, of Florida.
JoeN HARRIS, of Georgia.
EDWABn A. STEVENSON and DAVID CABGIL, of Idaho.
MIOBAKL SBOBMAltBB and GBOJIGE ENOCH DABLUIG, of Michigan.
JAMES PERRY WooD, of Missouri.
OWEN RICBABD HIOKIUN, of Montana.
ALBERT Gn.BEBT BASTl!IGS, of Nebraska.
JOHN E. JONES, of Nevada.
Joe11 Booos, of New York.
Gl!lOBGE WASHINGTON BLOUNT, of North Carolina.
COABLES STEWART and z. E. 000KBE8, of Texas.

The M. ·• W." the Dnke of Abercorn, Grand Master ; the B. •• H. •• Lord 0ASTLll·
TOWN, Grand Secretary.
Three hundred and seventy-six Lodges 011 Grand Lodge roll, including the six
Lodges in New Zealand.
Receipts to General Fnnd for 1895, .£3,909; receipts to Charity Fnnd .£689,
Five warrants Issued for the formation of new Lodges.
No transactions of interest reported.

KANSAS.

The statistical tables of Bro. PARVIN are simply Immense. He gives ns the names
of officers of Iowa Lodges ; Lodges arranged by nnmbers with dates of dispensation and Charters; synopsis of the returns of Lodges; recapitulation and memoranda
of Lodge changes ; Lodges arranged by names, by towns, by counties ; Grand
Lodge officers 1844 to 1896; Grand Lodges, with membership; table of comparative
status in United States and Canada; namber of Masons in the world, and biographical sketches of eminent Iowa Masons.
The Report on Correspondence is again presented by Worshipful Brother CoxB,
who submits a thorough review of the Masonic world, with a valuable and interest.
Ing paper on Mexican Masonry by Grand Secretary PARV!lf. Bro. Con finds the
subjects dividing tbe attention of correspondents to be the method of dispensing
charity, fraternal relief, perpetnal jurisdiction, and Mexican Masonry. The last
seems to be attracting the most attention, although the majority seem disposed to
"make haste slowly," and thereby avoid possible mistakes. The qaeetion of reoognition is one of vital Importance, not only to the Masone of Mexico but also to
American Freemasonry, whose influence would tend to elevate and secure that sta·
bility so desirable in our neighboring Republic in its political as well as Masonic Interests. We trust Bro. Con will enter into the discassion and give the Fraternity
the benefit or hie judgment npon this important proposition.
Bro. CoxE reviews California for 1895, the administration of Grand Master STB·
VENS, whose address he commends as wise and thoughtful. He joins in the Grand
Master's tribute to the memories of the illustrious Paet Grand Masters BROWNB and
BELCHER, has good words for Grand Secretary Jolll!fso11 and hie methods, and
compliments the Board of Relief.
Bro. Coxz notes the defeat of the resolution requiring all Master Masons, hereafter raised, to pass an examination in open Lodge within six months, and says : In Iowa we make the examination a condition of voting, holding office, or dimitting-and we think wisely. The law works well.
Bro. DEUPBEY's Address is pronounced excellent.
For the approval of our co-worker of Iowa we are sincerely thankful. And now
having more than filled our allotted space, we part with Bro. Coll with regret. We
have enjoyed ihe perusal of this fine volume of Iowa in '96, of which oar brother
has built his fnll share.
" Whatever hath been written shall remain,
Nor be erased nor written o'er again."

w:.·•

1896.]

w.·.

M.·.
GEORGE wABBINGTON BALL was re·elected Grand Master; B ...
THEODORE SUTTON PJ.BVIN was re-elected Grand Secretary. CommlUee on Correa·
pondence, Worshipful JAME& C. W. Cou, Washington.

The Gra.nd Lodge of Kansas held its fortieth Annaal Oommnnication in the city
of Wichita, February 19, 1896,-M.'. W.'. JAXllB H. MoC.u.i,, Grand Master, B. '. W. '.
ALBKRT K. WILSON, Grand Secretary. The constituent Lodges in this jarisdlctlon
nnmb~r three hundred and fifty.four, of which two hundred a.nd eighty were repre·
seated at this Oommnnioation. The Lodges show a membership of 19,185 Master
Masons. Five Past Grand Masters with twenty-three Representatives of sister
Grand Jurisdictions were in attendance at t!Je session.
Past Grand Master ANDBBW M. CALLABAll, of Topeka, represents the Grand Lodge
of California near the Grand Lodge or Kansas, and W. •. WH. VANDERHURST, of Bali·
nas, represents the Grand Lodge or Kansas near California.
With kindly welcome the Grand Master gave fraternal greeting to the assembled
brethren and proceeded to report his officlal acts daring the recess of the Grand
Lodge, with the present cundition of the jarisdlctlon. He was gratefnl that the all·
wise Father had stayed the hand of the angel of death and preserved their official
circle unbroken. Many sister jurisdictions had been sadly affiicted in the loss of em·
inent "sons of light," and with them the Grand Lodge of Kansas sincerely sympathized. Seven Lodges were constituted, and dispensations iesued for the formation
of three new Lodges; five Charters were Issued to Lodges whose originals had been
destroyed by fire.
The decisions reported are of local importance only.
The Grand Master submits the information collated by him in relation to the .Masonic Home, and recommended action of the Grand Lodge thereon at the present
session. At the close of his Address the Grand Master was presented with a hand·
some ivory gavel, for which be made an eloqneni response.
The Grand Lodge has in Its charity fnnd $37,244.08.
The death roll has inscribed apon it the names of two handred and fifty-nine
Master Me.eons.
The lJraud Treasurer's receipts for the year were $12,045.57; disbarsements same
period were itl,706.21.
Bro. HORACE W. GLEASON, Grand Orator, delivered an interesting Address.
Among the appropriations recommended by the Financial Committee we note the
following : For salary of Grand Master.......................... , ..... . $ 600 00
"
"
Secretary................................ 1800 00
Treasurer ............. . ................ .'. 300 00
"
"
" Chairman of Correspondence............................. 300 00
Bro. MATTHEW M. MILLBB, Chairman of Correspondence, made an exhau"tive
and interesting report upon the subject of the recognition of the Gran Dieta Sim·
bolica of the United States of Mexico, which was adopted by the Grand Lodge,
The committee, after a recital of the facts and mach information obtained from
Grand Secretary PABvlN, of Iowa, and others having personal knowle.d ge of exist-

686

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

ing conditions relating to Masonry In Mexico, close their r• •i¥ltb the following
summary, which, as we have said, was concurred in by the { ' AW'Lodge of Kansas:
From the foregoing your committee would summarize 8.s' follows :1. The Symbolic Lodges of Mexico entered into the organization and formation
of the Gran Dieta, and tile latter was duly and regularly organized as a sovereign
Grand Body over the bymbolic Degrees of Kasonry within tile Grand Jnrlsdictlon
of Mexico, in February, 1890.
2. The charges made against the Gran Dieta se a sovereign Grand Lodge are
shown never to have been true as to its Constitution and By-Lawe, and It bas by
solemn enactment decreed that the Holy Bible, square and compass eboold be used
on all Masonic altars in the Symbolic Lodges of the Repoblic of Mexico, and that
all cbartere held by so-called women Lodges be at once withdrawn, and no recogni·
tion of women as Masons ever be made.
3. We also find that practical recognition bas been given to the Gran Dieti1 by
American Masons residing or sojooroiog in Mexico, and that American visitors to
Mexican Lodges find the work to be practically the same as that of the Lodges o!
the United States; that the recognition of the Gran Dieta by the Grand Lodge of
Texas bas been productive of a better feeling of amity between the two jurisdictions; that recognition has also been formally made of the Gran Dieta by the Grand
Lodge• or New York and N ortb Dakota, ancl that the Grand Lodge of Missouri, by
advising its subordinate ToUec Lodge, No. 520 to accept a charter from the Gran
Dieta, bas in the most impressive manner certiHed to ltd legitimacy and regularity,
and borne testimony to the fact that it regarded and considered the Gran Dieta a
body of character and stability, and entitled to the allegiance of all the Symbolic
Lodges within its jurisdiction. We also find from the testimony of Masons known
to ns that the "good of Masonry" demands that we extend a helping hand to our
brethren of Mexico,
We therefore recommend that the Grand Symbolic Diet of the United States of
Mexico be duly recognized by this Grand Lodge in accordance with our nsnal custom in snch matters.
The Grand Representatives of sister jurisdictions were introdnced and welcomed
by the Grand Master.
The Grand Lodge voted to become a member of the General Masonic Relief Association.
The Report on Correspondence is again presented by Worsbipfnl Bro. MATTHEW
M. MILLEB, a paper that for completeness and able comment will challenge the attention of the Masonic family. In this case the Georgia role should prevail and every
Kascn in Kansas be furnished with a copy of Bro. MILLBB's report for 1895. Bro.
MILLBB does sharp and effective work in holding np to the light the inlqnity of the
cipher blunder, or mistake, or" something else." He qnotes from Bro. Pl:LLANS, of
Alabama, a text which, although conservative, Is a truthful warning to the promoters in this cipher bnslness to stop and examine the contract, and be certain before
proceeding further that ciphers are allowed. Bro. PlLLANS wrote:We think these bodies should themselves do nothing subversive of the ancient
requirements of Masonry, while they at the same time demand this of their subordinates. No Grand Lodge is of such absolute Independence as to alter or change the
ancient fundamental requirements of the Order.
We get bis unmixed opinion of that most wonderful gifl; that was by divine command pat op and labelled, "For Grand Masters only," and has descended even to
Mississippi.
And here are a few golden words quoted from Bro. JOSIAH H. DBIDDIOND's Ad·
dress before the Grand Lodge of Maine npon the subject of Fraternity, empbasiz·
ing the fact that the lack or social features at Lodge meetings was, to some extent,
responsible for a weakening of the bonds of Fraternity among the Craft. We have
noticed them before, bot, like the Master's Lecture, they will bear repeating. Bro.
DBuJDlOND says :I am convinced that one cause of our loss In this ·direction proceeds from the
failure of our members to cultivate intimacy with each oilier. The ritual and old

1896.J

Grand Lodge of U<ili/ornia.

681

ie objects of Lodge·meetings·are something more than to
nsage conte'!lplatt
•
work. In former times refreshments w
transact bosmess "'-·
necPssary to holding a Lodge as the presence of tile charier ~re practically as
of Masons, resulted, and we went to the other extreme As i now cess«'.~·(~nworthy
1 or I confese it bas taken years to make me see it) this departur~ from anc . see
perilous mistake. Tbere is no doubt whatever that the relaxatio ~ent u~a~e was a
by a~mbhn!f around the table and breakirlg~bread together add8 romh a or given
• c arm to our
meetings which they cannot otherwise gain.
Bro. MILLER'S review of Oalifornia is of the administrat1•00 0 t Gr d M
ast.er
an
·
·
H
e writes m words of sympathy and sorrow of the bereavement of Grand
ll:VBNS.
Lodge In the death of Past Grand Masters JOHN MILLS BBOW!IB d w
CA.Ll>ILLiill
·Of D octor BROWN.II: in addition to his rep tat' an
.
Wll:LL B ELOHER.
a ion as a wise man and
•
.b dF
't'
reemason, be bas the admiration of the avera
accompl is e
ge c1 1zen for one who
b a d wri'tten his name high upon the column erected in memor
of b'
1
is country s deY
fenders, and of Bro. Bll:LOHBR, be says:ST

Bro. B&LOHll:B stood in the front rank of the Masoni · ·
a reputation in that respect not confined to the limits ~f~~~sts of America, and had
is col!ntry. For twentyeight years be bad served as Chairman of the Comm·
00
Ju~isprudence, and bis
decisions indicated that no mistake bad been made i~~~
the Address of the Grand Master that be was alwa 8 is ~e1ectwn. We learn trom
the feelings of others, that those who differed with bi tbpugbtfoi aad considerate for
aonic law always knew that the only object be bad in m_ in regardb. to a point of Ma·
view wast e promotion of the
best interests of the Institution.
Bro. MILLEB notes the great number of vi~itatlous made b G
Master Su·
· reception
·
b rand
by his constitnents and hi Y
VBNS, h'1s en th as1ast1c
s ospitable entertain'
ment "without the ase of wine."
For the action of Grand Lodge In the interest or its ward, now Bro. WA.LTEB
0AB.£Y WrLOOX, Bro. KILLER writes these kinds words :A letter was received by Grand Lodge from Bro WA.LTB c
R f A.(~Y WILoox, giving
expression to thanks and appreoiation for kindness ~nd
care 0 •rend Lodge, This
brother when a lad of foor years was sbi ed
Grmd Lodge or California, that tbereaftenntlhi~P:i~{o:~by~~~ ~~{:1 F11orida to the
e P ace of father
e
to him, The " old landmarks" did not la down
but the big hearted Masons of California i:ade 00 any each .system of benevoi~nce,
to this lndivldoal, systematic and satisfying as tbe;•.;nd the_i ~ generous benefactions
honor than if they had followed the con8truction plac e~eb wi redbnnd more to their
doty in like case, and permitted the lad to grow u e t Y some retbren opon one's
ing upon the ..chance half shekels of silver his rags P0 a rarnfidand a beggar, subsistr aqua neBB might draw oat
from brethren beholding them.

1

Bro. KILLER notes the compliment of Grand Lodge to p ast Grand Master 0Bu
.
d
'
k'
an concurs generally 10 onr legislative conduct. He h
as many md words for Cali
·
d
i ·
orma an the writer, for which if be ever comes" West" w hall t k · ·
a e him 10.
es
o
M. • w. · c
• • • • HILBS • 0 OLBHA.N was elected Grand Master • R . w.. ALB
~T K.
WILSON was re-elected Grand Secretary, Chairman or Corr' 8 • ·d ·'
Bro.
e pon enoe,
MA'I'l'HEW M. MILLBR, Topeka.

w..

KENTUCKY.
AnnHoal Commonioatlon in the
cl~h:fG~::~a:ii!g~:!o!::t~:k~~:;d~'.:c.~inW:et:·siHxth
ENRY OPBON KOLBHA.N Grand

M

:II

'

•

••

••

aster; R. '• W." HENRY BA.NNIBTBB GRA.NT, Grand Secretary. The Grand Lod e
nombert1 fonr hundred and slxiy·one Lodges, wl&b a membership of 2 399 Mas!r
asoas. Foor hundred Lodges were represented at the present sess;on Th
ere
•
were fifteen Past Grand Masters in attendance.
The Grand Master delivered his Address. B:e invoked the blessing of the Deit
npon the assembled brethren, and ~roceeded to report bis official acts He spoke oftb:

7

:;~:~~ !e;~;e:~~::~d t~ d7ri~g &be ye.ar ~be grim reaper bas w~lked tbrongbont

e an , and with icy finaera has beckoned some of the

688

Procee.d,ings of the

[~.15,

best and noblest of onr Craft to that • nndlscovered coontry from whose boorne
no
traveler retorns.'" The Committee on Necrology will, lo a proper manner,
direct
yoor attention to the loss sustained by the Order in this and other jorisdictlo
ns, and
suggest soitable e.otion In regard thereto.
The Grand Master made an earnest recommendation and a.ppea.J to the
Grand
Lodge for their enthosia.stic support of the Kentucky "Home." He reports
three
Lodges "set to work," two by himself and one by his proxy. He also reports
the
death of ".Marroiobone'' Lodge and the winding up of Its a1fairs. He does
not say
so, bot we think possibly its name killed it. Bot few visitations were reported.
Five
corner-stones were placed, with the osoal ceremonies, dnrlng the year. No Important
decisions were reported. He recommends that Grand Lodge carry oat the
intended
ereciion of a mooomeot to the veteran Past Grand Secretary, HIRAM BASSETT.
He
. suggest~ that the Grand Lodge ado.pt regulation s for the trial of a Master
of a Lodge,
as their law is without provision for that porpose.
He recommends the printing of the ceremony of conferring the Pa.st Master's
dearee, and that the same be kept onder control by the Grand Lodge. On
behalf
of Grand Lodge he recommends that Bro. SAHUBL O. Id.WBENOE, of Boston, be
remembered in some fitting manner for his Ma.sonic zeal and kindness In enabling
the Little
Commandery to visit Boston on the occasion of the \ate Trienna.1 Oonc\a.ve
of the
Grand Encampm ent.
The Grand Lodge levied an assessment of one dollar per capita upon (affi.lia.ted)
Kentocky Masons for the sopport of the Kentocky Home.
The printing of ceremonial of Past Master's degree was, on motion, indeiloitely
postponed , and the same action was had opoo the creation of a commissio
n for the
irial of a Master of a Lodge.
Grand Lodge adopted the following resolotion :WHEREAS, The retailing of spirltooos liqoors has been so a.based as to '!>ecome
a
great evil in the social life of our country, so that the prosecotio
n of that business
by a Master MRson is inconsistent with his profe•sion of moral character
and coodoct and calculated to bring the Order into public disrepute; be it
.
Resol1Jed, That this Grand Lodge disapprove the condoctiog of soch bosioees
by
Master Masons.
Past Grand Master W. W. OU.IUtE, for the Committee on Correspondence,
reported to the Grand Lodge of Kentuck y:The Committee on Foreign Correspondence respectfol \y recommend that
the
action of the Grand Ma!!ter in the matter of request of Grand
Master of West
Virginia., and bis anthority to a Lodge In West Virginia to receive petitions
for
initiation from persons living in Kentucky, bot nearer said Lodge than any
Lodge in
:S:entocky, is hereby approved. Adopted.
Also the following :Your Committee on Foreign Correspondence, to which was referred the action
.of
Grand Lodge of Uolorado, looking to the celebratio n of the centennial of
the d~ath
of bim who was as well an exemplar and ensample to his fellow citizens and
to the
ancient and honorable Fraternity of Freema.sonry-GsoRGE W ABBINGTON-respect
·
fnlly recommend that a commission consisting of the Grand
Master elect, and three
others by the Grand Mas•er to be appointed , is hereby provided for with foll
power
to act in the matter.
A free will offering to porchase grapes for the children of the Home was
made,
and S79.S5 collected and turned over to the Secretary of the Home Boa.rd.
The Report on Correspondence ie age.in presented by Past Grand Master
and
Chairman, WILLI.U! W. CLAllKE. He reviews the doings of fifty Grand Lodges,
bot
California finds no place in Bro. CLA~'s " make up ,, this time. He says
he don't

..

1896 .,,
~

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

like
theIt."
report; that it lacks fiuish.
not in

Po88ihly ' Bro. CLARKE,

689

that's because " we are

0! the "qneetion e before the hooee •" Bro• CLAR KE says:. The question of Grand Represent atives . .1
. g discussion
indeed.
no apprehens ion need be felt .
is sti I nndergmn
; but littl
writer is that
system in its present
thereof• . The opinion of
0
good.' results 10
ha.rm. Ke remains ~
eve opmeut, while accomplishin no
00
special rep?rt submitted by him to the
the opinion expressed fn a
further behaves that prover! reor
.
,o ge at its la.stComm
He
exce!le.nt re~olts. He admits, ~ndeel::z:~ It ::1ight be productive onica.tion
and
that 1t is an mnovation. So a.re chartered L rde • and now re-affirmsofbispositi;e
conviction
for the one, so, at lea.st, it may come to pass ~h~:~h And.lalsbthere is now a
·
ere WI e need for the necessity
other
We quote for the purpose of endorsin Br C
•
:Master G.i. v1N of Indiana., opon the meritsgof :; LABK.E' a c~ncorrence with
Orand
the address of the Grand Master to th G
L
petoa.l
Jnrl~d1ctio
n,
a
few
lines
from
.
e ran
odge of Indiana. He sllid :The
doctrme
that
a
rejection
by
one
Lod
e
.
by all, me:ts with no favor in Indiana. ·I arlb operated " ips_o
facto," a rejection
of an.applica nt necessarily signifies, as yoo w yr; means sa.tietled thatas
the rejection
0
cant is unworthy to become a Ma.son
0
0 seem to regard it, that the a 11honest, upright and honorable ,
•: feel quite sore that Jiny
ea lB actory reason, persona non grata to
P Y eca.ose they a.re for some
however, as it may, and concedin the. th some .me!Dbe~
of the Lodge.' Be that,
ha;t not,hin ~hie jurisdiction, be~n ta.~gb~ [:J:;!~~g 1 ~thed per~onal unfitness,
we
na on as o1dma good in Masonry.
er e octrme of eternal dam-

t~e

~~~on~elue~ce

Grandcfa~ged i~

th~~

l

m~!l·r

°

~re r~j!~~e~ ~1~a.r{

The above was to the Grand Master of Pennsylvania..
Bro. CLARKE comments as follows:This is the position which h~s been consist
of Kentucky,
and this writer is gratified

adhebred to by the Grand Lodg11
0
argument~ he has himself need. He bellev toeitll
so a le a Mason nrging the same

the reject1<!n ol' a candidate did not and ~~~I~ firs{ sag!festi;d the propositio
n that
cated nothmg more than that he was ob
. no
him unworthy and ind!
Lodiie; bot Grand Master GAVIN has laid hf;1ous torender
some member of the' rejectin havmg improved upon the crude original. .. M:ynd<J the
obligation
n es1 11.,,,.as under
eL pre11alabit
" s
M .•. W. •• FBANll: C. GBRABD was elected Grand Master.
•
•
•
was re-elected Grand Secretary .
' B. • W. • HEl'IBY B. GRANT
Chairman of Correspon dence ' M ••• W:.
• • • W• CLAB.KB, Owensboro.

~~er

fo~

W

LOUISIA NA.
The Grand Lodge of Louisiana. held its el ht
the city of New Orleans, Febrnary 10,1896, -::. y;:o.ur~~ Aonaa.1 Commonio
atiou in
Master; B.·. w... RICBABD LAMBERT Grand
ORGB H. PACKWOOD, Grand
hnndred and twenty-nine Lodges w'
ere ary. Seventy-five of the one
.
ere
d Th· t t
of sister Grand Lodges were present with represente
. p
G •
Ir Y· wo representa tives
bership in Lonisana is 5,346.
'
six a.st rand Masters. The total memTbe Grand Master welcomed the brethren
dnties of the session. He made Ppecial mentio inf ::tendanc e to the pleasures
and
Lodges and extended to them his most cordi
_e represent~tives of sister Grand
death bas visited oar Lodge rooms and so a gfreet1bngs. He said: "Doring
the year
•
me o our rothers ha · I
.
erab le band, aR we all hope, in the full faith in fl
.
ve JO ned the mnnm·
book of life kept in the Grand Lodge above.''
nding their names recorded in the
The Grand Ma&ter visited thirty·nine Lod
d .
and good fellowship existing generally, and, '!;i~h ~~:g ;~e year an~ found
ha.~ony
a we.rm welcome everywher e.
y w exceptions , he received

'& .t

to

Grand
Master
an lnterestingl a
ianaThe
Relief
Lodge
Nogives
1 It
ce?ont of the origin and history Lonie•. • •
was organ zed m 1861-call ed into existenceofby
the

9

690

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

need of some plan for enpplylng aid to Indigent worthy Masons temporari
ly within
the jurisdictio n. Originally the Board of Relief, and afterwards as a chartered
Lodge,
was snpported by monthly contribnti ons of twenty-five cents for eaob member
borne
upon the rolls or the contributi ng Lodges. In 1872 this plan was changed,
and the
contributi ng Lodges taxed themselves ten per cent. per annum on the amount
of
does collected from the members.
It should be recorded to its praise that this Board of Relief, merged later
into
Louisiana Relief Lodge, No. 1, Is the pioneer organization for Masonic charity
in this
country. New York, Brooklyn, Bao Francisco and others followed.
The Grand Master makes an earnest appeal to the Masonic Family throogboo
t
the world to raise their united voices in favor of peace and a settlemen
t of all
national differences by arbitration , and to frown down any and all efforts to
relegate
national questions to the arbitrame nt of the sword.
The Report of the Grand Secretary shows the receipts for the year 1895 to
have
been $20,585.15 ; the disbursements, same period, $18,064.82.
The representa tives of sister Grand Lodges were received and welcomed
by the
Grand Master. They were sainted with the Grand Honors and invited to the
East.
B.·. W.·. Bro. J.Q. A. FELLOWS represents the Grand Lodge of California near
the Grand Lodge of Louisiana, and our lately deceased Bro. W .'. GUSTAVUS LANGFORD
SPBAR represente d the Grand Lodge of Louisiana near the Grand Lodge of California
.
The mourning page, with its broken oolomn, contains the names of
fifteen
brethren, members of the Grand Lodge, who have passed to the other side during
the
year. The names also of eighty-one brethren, members or the varlO!JB constituen
t
Lodges, are inscribed upon the death roll or 1895.
The Report on Correspon dence is again submitted by Past Grand Master
JoHN
QUll!ICY ADAMS FELLOWS, it being bis tenth paper. Bro. FELLOWS bas been
griev•
onsly afliicted with serious illness; in fact bas been " within the shadow
" many
months of the past year, We sincerely trust be bas folly recovored bis health
and
may be spared yet many years to enjoy it. Our Bro. BELCHKB often joked
with os
about taking bis "grip," calling at New Orleans for Bro. FELLOWS, and
with him
invading the City of Mexico, investigating thoroughl y the "Gran Dieta Bimbollc11
;"
and being prevented by unforeseen caoees from attending the Triennial Conclave
of
the Grand Encampm ent at Boston, as he folly intended to do, he sent by the
writer a
pleasant UtePaage of regret to both Bro. FsLLOWS and Bro. DnuiumND. And
yet the
one was taken and the other left. When we returned, Bro. BELCHER bad,
"like the
stars, gone down to rise op on a fairer shore."
Under the bead of Necrological and California, Bro. FBLLOWS says:In advance of the proceedin gs there bas been received by
chairman a newspaper containing an extract from the Address of the Grand the
of California,
announcin g to the Grand Lodge, at its session in October, the Mester
death, in the P11lace
Hotel, Ban Francisco, on Septembe r 1 , 1895. of Paet Grand Master W1LL!All
CALD·
WELL BELCHER, Grand Master for the years 1862-3-4, and Chairman of its Committe
e
on Jurisprude nce for more than thirty years, aiied 74 year•. He was a
native of
Stockbrid ge, Windsor County, Vermont; born 20th December , 1820; a graduate
of
the University of Vermont of the Class of 1848, and was tbe Instructor at
Academy, Vermont, who fitted this writer for college to ent.er two years in Bradford
advance.
Bo tborongh was he as a teacher that at the end of four years in
colleiie, the rate on
the examination of the studies puTBoed under Bro. BELCHBB were
higher
than for
the lBllt two years in college. This thoroughn ess in everything he undertook
main characteri stic of bis whole life. For forty years a prominent attorney was a
San Francisco bar, respeoted by all. He was in the highest rank of Masonic ol the
at the bead of those on the Pacific Coast, and equal to any throughou t the jurists,
country.
The writer expected to go before him on the last journey, and bas the satisfactio
n of
the hope to meet him ere many years in the Grand Lodge above.
Bro. FELLOWS quotes the proceedin gs bad In oor Grand Lodge in memory of
Bro.

1896.l

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

691

Bx~HKR,

To the. illustrious dead of other jurisdictio ns be also pays the t 'b te f
0
0
we -earned fame 10 the service of the Fraternity .
ri
In treating the subject of non-at!liiation Bro F
upon the comparati ve

~~:~:~:t~:i~~oisition

m~anin~ 0 ::::Sor~~v:: 0~!~1~::!~w~:!

we attempt
to two
treat words
the subject
I0.d ica
· t e d b Y t h'is
in aAs
quandary.
The
a
heading, we find ourselves
thing, convey exactly the same id~~ ~~~t!~e synod}'.mtonshmean exactly
first, as for instance Bro wAlT or N w H use ! 0 ere e:ngedly. Somethe same
nee the
1
Maine, uses the word~ indi~crimin'atel;
Bro. DRU!o!llOND, of
the Latrn, means to adopt into the f !I ~reqoe~~l~s:nr:~e while
same
page.
Aflil1ate,
into a Lodge is an affiliated Mason 61-¥~ y, 68 6 son or child! an.d hence a Ml\Son from
Mason is not a member of Lodg~ "~~e~~lvt~ P~~ md1cates that the taken
brother
Saxon, and both convey the6 sam : d . 0 18 .e
trn P.reflx; "un" is from the
that is, ·not afliliated with Lodp;:. 1 entlcal negative meaning
to the word atliliate,
6
the new departure from the orl · 1 J
n~tBut
members
of some Lodge of Freem~~~~s Pban ~ f F reemasonry in re.gard
d1fterence between the two words. but f t~s irr8n i;iade the occasion toto those
make a
which, and have to look at tbe deftn' i or. e
o us we are a t a loBB to know
the definition as made by Grand Lo It 00 given to ethem.
This compels os to copy
(or maternity) of the definition
!~afi:~ent, 11:~~
cl11ims the paternity
we give the Iowa definition or 'distinctio n._ saw 1 IDasbloNa
t e ew York proceedin gs,
1. An onaftiliate
one whose memb.
•
·
severed on account of is
sentence for offense erlbi P 10
~l rec«?gDized
Lodge bas been
bas bee~ severed in some other ml\nner. ·
no.n-a ate 18 one whose membersh ip
Havrng
the
above
arbitrary
dellniti
b
f
0
8
·
Freemason s m11.y be divided Into two cl~BB: ~~ • we ~hrnk
may safely proceed.
and those who are not. 'l'hose who are as· ose w o arewe
';llembers of a Lodge
says of those who are not atliliates, are~J!e b: c~~~et 68 ,~ffi~ated. The
defini tion
been severed on account of sentence for offense0 ~ T~ 68d fl W: •ose. me!Ilbers_
hlp has
18
Mason whose member•h lp · th
d
•
e
D1t1on
18
m1sleadmg
. A.
nitely. Why not call theO: 8ex::
so:;:
~lt~eM
expei~ed
or
suspended
indell1
0 e asons 8ooh they are, and
socb should be designated With
b
as
80
matters. Bot if one is potnted oot ~ a we can _hold no comn:ionl!lation
Masonic
the terrn, can hold Masonic commnnic:tlo 0nafli!~~teb. we, cgns1dermg t~e on
meaning
of
Rbouid occasion require. The whole tbi u WI
im an would be hkely to do so
jnrisdictions to what is termed sospensi~: rrows out of the effect
in some
this hereafter.
or non-paym ent of does.being
Bot more or

tho:::

.

r:;e;;
6

The ne ~t subject treated by Bro. FELLOWS, In this admirable report, is that
great
canse of a our woes, the non-payment of does. Be says :-

1

This subject is so intimately connected Ith th f
·
proper arrangem
ent or the subjects treatedw
f e oregomg tb!"t !t follows it in the
members of Lodges c m
d
• 10 a~t, a vast maJor1ty of Masons,
not
Lodge of Iowa, th~t i~ th~:e :r the Jlass denommat ed onaflilia.tes
by the Grand
before stated, that every Mason ~~oeu~d egei~! non-payment of dues. We
admit, as
oonsequeoce, should contribute to the Lodge g to some Lb«?dg~, and, as a necessary
of annual (or quarter! or month!
expenses, w 1ch 1s exacted in the form
should be excluded fro~ the Lodg!~~~f ~;~ t:ed ~odg~, and ~u default of
P.a~ruent
0
0
1
0
1
part In
o?°tbe
penalty than tbat of being deprived 0~f ~~~~r hn~ ~~ dlmit, and this without any
ot her
Provisions should also b
d th
be privi eges: .
financial aftairs of the brotb:r~~o~ld 1!:a":'raent
t~~t u~w1lhngness .sh?old cease,
open for bis. taking an active part again in ~b~ ;, oorf ~~ nt:i1ss1on should or tt.e
be left
not be deprived of any of hie rights and pri 6 u1rs 0 Me
dge. But he should
11
6
0
the
bis
be deprived. Tb~ Lodge (~rt~:r t~::i:t ~a~:e~n~~iathon. d I~ f:ct he ~an not leg~lly
thus
not the right to thus and !or this reason that
ran 0 gebby its regulation~) bas
0
dne-to deprive him th
b
ti d non·memb
ers
Ip
or
non-payment of
The whole diftl
• oug .we 0 the power to do so has been often
exercised
1 bab ariR:~and gradually so, from
original plan of M~otlr
the
departure
from the
the principle ~ tan bl' Y m
g the Lodge the dlapenser of charity and ignoring
Is an individ~al dut/ JD every step of the ceremonies, that obarity, or rather
relief,

\h!'L~~;~o5~l:nld~~~i~ !1::s~dJ:e~ake

1 8

::1~~b0~ t~ke~a~ ~en ~~:lved fro~

~~rf?;~:~~~ ~f

6

~h~ aff:i~!

r

1

1

L~~~:, : ~ i';1~!~t ~~

d'u~?e~o~:~~~l~;::i~o:~~

[Oct. 15,

1896.J

Bro. FBLLOWB quotes from Bro. MATTHEWS, of Texas, referring to an amendment
of our law in regard to restoration from sospeosloo for non-payment of does. Bro•
MATTHEWS says, lo his review of California:-

S5,674.92.

Procudings of the

692

Bro. MATTBEWB adds:The law was heretofore similar to that of Texas, and we think that the conditions
imposed therein "are quite as ooerons as they should be." They were, too, liberal
enough, lo that restoration to good standing was placed at thl' option of the brother.
Now there is added that a three-fourths vote most be had before restoration can
come. Unless we are greatly mistaken many more dronbs will be the outcome. The
army of noo-aftlllates, for each virtually those suspended members will be,_ will be
largely racroited.
We concur in the opinion of Bro. MATTHEWS. We think it was a great mistake
in oar Grand Lodge to place the least impediment in the way of membership in our
Lodges. We would much rather legislate non-affiliates In than out.
Bo many Masons are being made at sight about these days that Bro. FELLOWS
gives us his Idea of the extent of the powers, privileges and prerogatives of the Grand
Master. He says:-

Bro, FELLOWS' report for 1896 is one opon which he can safely rest hie fame as a
wise and accomplished Freemason. The report is a great one and worthy of the
eminent Masonic jurist who wrote it. He says in his conclusion:We have from year to year been more and more impressed that there are certain
features attending every manifestation of the want of prosperity in the Fraternity. ·
1. Where can we find prosperity? The social feature has been prominent. Of
this we have had much to say and select in our former reports. t!ociality used to be
the role and the want of it the exception in all "onr" Lodge meetings.
2. All matters of local · government was left freely to the Lodges, but recently
the tendency is more and more for Grand Lodf!'es to absorb all power and the Fraternity cease to have freed<>m lo the transaction of their own business. Everything is
to be done by roles enacted by Grand Lodge.
There is moch food tor thought In both remedies.

M.·. w... ALBERT G. BBICR Wl\S elected Grand Master; R.·. W.·. RIOBARD LAHBRBT
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence: P. G. M. JoBN Q. A. FELLOWS, New Orleans.
MAINE.

The Gl'ILild Lodge of Maine held its seventy-seventh Aoooal Communication in
the city of PorUaod, May 5, 1896,-M".'. W.·. AUGUSTUS B. FARNEAM, Grand Master,
R.·.
BTBPHEM BEBRY, Gr&nd Secretary. One hundred and ninety-two Lodges
enrolled with a membership of 21,953.
The death roll of the year numbers three hundred and sixty-six brethren. Forty
eieter Grand Lodges were represented-California by Past Grand Master HENRY R.
TAYLOB. R.'. w. .. Bro. NATHAN w. SPAULDING of Oakland, represents the Grand
Lodge of Maine near the Grand Lodge of California.
One hundred and seventy-six Lodge! were represented at this Commooicatlon.
Nineteen Past <hand Masters were In attendance.

w.·.

693

The receipts for the year were S6,555.2S. The disbursements for the year were
Amount of invested Charity Fond, S27,234.21.
13rand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
First giving thanks to God for the privilege of meeting again to legislate for the Craft,
the Grand Master welcomed the brethren to the duties and pleasures of the seventy.
seventh Annual Communication. Extending to all a cordial greeting, he congratulated them upon the prevailing harmony as we\\ as the prosperity of the jnrisdiotion;
bot. he B8id, while we are permitted to grasp the hand and exchange salutations, Jet
us not forget those who have passed beyond the portals of the grave into the Cele1tial Lodge above.
" Thev glide lo the wonderful si\eooe of death,
With faces snow-white, to the west,
And Illy hands kiBBed by the spice laden breath
That strays from the sweet land of rest."

We believe that they made a mistake when, in opposition to the recommendation
of tbe Committee on Jorisprodeoce, the following was adopted by a five-sixths vote :
That should any member suspended for non-payment of does neglect, for th11
period of two years, to pay said does, or have the same remitted by his Lodge, said
member shall not be restored except by a three-fourths vote .of the members present
at the stated meeting when petition for restoration is presented.

As at present organized, Grand Masters owe their position, powers and privilege5
to the Coostitotlon of their respective Grand Lodges, and these are e.s the represelltatives of the Lodges make them at their creation and still continue to make them.

Grand Lodge of OaUforn.ia.

•

He reported the names or honored veterans in the Masonic household, brethren
of their own tribes aod families who had passed to the great beyond, and gave earnest
tribute to their memories. Re also mentioned the death of illustrious brethren of
sister jnrigdictions and joined in the general regret at their departure.
Gl'and Lodge li;id the corner-stone of the new Oxford Ooaoty buildings at Sooth
Paris, Joly 2, 1895, with the usual ceremonies, and dedicated March 26 the new ball
of Keystof&P Lodge, No. 80, at Solon. The Grand Master called five conventions for
instruction in Masonic Work dnrfog the year, and he thinks tbey have produced good
results. He recommended that new clothing be procured for the officers of Grand
Lodge. No decisions of importance were reported.
Thanks were received by the Grand Master for the prompt action of the Grand
Lodge of Maine opon the petition of the Grand Lodge of New Zealand for reoognltioo.
The Report of Grand Secretary BTEPHRN BERBY is a model of brevity and economy
of words. It consists of seventeen lines, and occupies a space in the J ooroa\ of 2ix4
inches, and yet it's all there.
Bro. J. H. DRUHlll!OND, for the'.Oommittee on Jarisprodence, presented the following report on the proposed " Mississippi" uniform roles :The Committee on M~soni~ J~isprode~ce, to which was referred the proposition
of the Grand Lodge of M1sslss1pp1 to estabhsh among the Grand Lodges uniform roles
in relation to jnrisdictiuo over rejected candidates, ask leave to report.
The role proposed by the Grand Lodge of M.iBBissippi has been rejected by so
many Grand Lodges that there is no hope of Its becoming a uniform role, and, therefore. your committee do not deem it expedient to disc ass it.
In justice to its distinguished author, however, we should B8y that some of the
objections to it arose from a mlB8pprehensioo of its meaning.
_The reasons which caused the Grand Lodge of MieeiBBippi to rropose this rule,
eX1st to-day and are stronger than ever before. The question o jurisdiction over
re~eoted candidates threatens to disturb the relations between the Grand Lodges of
this country, and the danger of such disturbance grows more imminent as the years
roll on. It has already caused dissensions and protests, and it le only beoao1e some
·Grand Lodges do not have "the courage of their convictions" or are willing to
l'~dore what they dei;m" wr?og rather than disturb the harmony of the Craft, that a
d1sroption of Masomc rebt10ns between some of oar sister Grand Lodges hfls not
alre~dy _taken p\a~e- ~och disruption mnst sorely comt>, and ft Is _only a question of
a br1~f time '!hen 1t 1mU come, uol~ss some c·om!110D anderstaodmg is reached in
relat100 to this matter. Our own Grand Lodge 1s not exempt from this dao11er,
Your committee, therefore, have deemed it important to examine the whole qnestion
and submit t.he result to the Grand Lodge.
Strange as it will appeu to the Masons of .Maine, the fl.rd question is, " What is
the m_eani~g of the action of the Lodge in balloting upon the petition of a candidate,
especially in a case or a rejection 7" A•tooishing as it is, it is oeverthele•s a fact
that the theory recently advanced is thut a rejecSioo means no more than that some
member of the Lodge, fol' reasons of his own, does not desire the candidate to become

694

Proceed,ings of the ·

[Oct. 15,

a member of his Lodge; "only this and nothing more." The aothor of this Idea is
evidently driven to this position in order to maintain his views as to the effect of a
rejection.
. That this is contrary to the teachings of the fathers in thl• State every Mason in
Maine knows; that it is contrary to the doctrine of the Masons elf other States everv
Mason, who has read the addresses of Grand Masters and other teachers of the Craft,
oogbt to know.
It has been the oniversal doctrine that the only question submitted to the Lodge
in balloting opoo the petition of a candidate is, "Is he fit to be made a Ma•oo?"
and every member, npoo his honor as a Mason, votes as he conscientiously believe•.
The declarations by tho•e in authority, that any Mason, who allows personal feeling
of any kind to control his ballot, violates hie duty aud is guilty of uomasooic coo·
duct, are so numerous that it is unnecessary to quote them. This is couclosively
settled by the not Infrequent convictions of Masons for rejecting candidates for
personal and oomasooic reasons.
Bu\ It is said that good men are rejected from improper motive•. This is undoubtedly true, bat we believe not so frequently as those who ose this argnmeot would have
as believe. To admit that It is true is only to admit that Masons are hnmao, and Rome
of them guilty of onm1U1oolc condnct, as is •hown by the numerous convictions for
other offenses. But the coor,lusive answer i•, that when a law operates so uoj ostly
the\ any possible evasion of its effect becomes necessary or jostlllable, the law itself
shoo Id be modi fled or repealed. If the effect or the operation of the law of the secret
and unanimoos ballot is soch a• to justify an evasion of that effect, the law is faol\y.
The law necessarily assumes that every Mn.son, lo casting bis ballot, will do so In
good faith and lo accordance with Masonic duty. We repeat, that if the abuse is so
frequent as to justify a general provision to avoid its effect, a modiHcation of the law
ls imperatively demanded. While no one as yet has gone so far as that io his demand,
this argument is the entering wedge for the abrogation of the secret and unanimous
ballot, or for the entire evasion of its effect.
The rejection of a candidate, then, Is the decision of the Lodge--tbe tribunal to
which, lo behalf of the whole Fraternity, the law of Masonry entrusts the determina·
tion of that question without appeal-that the candidate is not, at the time, fit to
become a Mason.
" What is the effect of that decision?" Is the next qoestion: and while really bot
very few question the doctrine first stated, this question lies at the fonodatioo of the
differences now existing.
It is undoubtedly true that until recently the generally received law and Masonic
usage were that a rejected candidate oonld be thereafter legally accepted only by
the Lodge which rejected him, or by another Lodge with its consent, if io exi•tence.
If aov code of law (except in a single instance) provided otherwise, or any Mssonlc
writer held otherwise, anti! within Iese than fo.rty years, it ha• escaped the notice of
yoor committee after as careful and minute examination as we have had the time
and means to make.
But as this proposition baa been vehemently denied, with a confidence born appar·
eotly of iotnltioo rather than of an examination of the authorities, your committee
deem it Important to state the result of our examination.
Io the fir•t place the Masonic jurists of the last generation were ooanlmoos io their
statement of the law, precisely a9 we have just given It.
JoB!I W. SIMONS, in his work oo "Masonic Jorisprodeoce," (1864.) says:"It is the duty of the committee not only to satisfy themselves that the candidate
is in possession of the necessary qoaliHcations, bot that be has not previously been
rejected by a.ny other Lodge; for in that case, he could not be received (without the
consent of the rejecting Lodge, and not even then), till after the lapse of a certain
time provided for in the local rep;olatioos of the several Grand Lodges, six months In
some, one year in others. The reason for this may be found in the fifth of the
Ancient Chargea: 'None shall discover envy ot the prosperity ot a brother, nor sop·
plant him, or pot him ont of his work, If be be capable to finish the same; for no
men can finiRb another's work so ruoch to the Lord's prolit, noless he be thoroughly
acquainted with the designs and draughts of him that began it.' Practically, however, it arises from the necessities of multiplied Lodges and jurisdictions. Its inten·
tlon is, not only to preserve harmony among the Lodges, but to shield the Craft
s.galost the wiles of improper per.one, determined to force themselves upon it at all
hazards. Io ninety-nine cases oat of a hundred, the rej•cted candidate and hie
friends feel that a grievous injustice bas been doo,e him, and, in the spirit of human
nature, set about the discovery of some means of retaliation. Without stoppiog to
pomt oat the onjostifiable and uomasonic oatore of such proceedings, it i• only 11ec·
essary to say that, although, in some cases, there may be inju•tice- for Masons are
not devoid of failings-it most ·not be forgotten that the ballot, being 'strictly and
inviolably secret,' we Cdnnot lawfully inquire into the caoee of rejection, and can,

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

695

tberP.fore, only de!" with it as a fact for which we are not responsible. Moreover it la
always of greater importance that the Craft should be protected against the admission
of impr?per material, and that pe~e .and _h armony should be p~eserved io the Lodge,
than 1t 1s that any man, however d1st10g01shed, should be adm1tttd to its privileges.
hence the legal delay can never work harm, nor can there be any shadow of lnjoetic~
In allowing the Lodge to which the appli~ation was Hrst made, and that tbos a.cqolred
jurisdiction, to retain it, till time and investigation shall have convinced them of the
pr.opriety of their firs\ aot, or of its reversal, on the presentation of a new petition,
Mistakes are common to all men and bodies of men, and it does sometimes happen
that a black ball ls cas.t lo error, as lo a case of mistaken Identity; bot this does not
alter the fact of the re;ectloo, nor le there any remedy bot the presentation of a new
petition when the proper time has arrived."
Dr. MAC.B:BY, in his work oo Jurisprudence (1859), says:. "Whe.n a candidate for lo~tiati~n loto the mysterlell' of Freemasonry has been
re;eoted m the . manner described 10 tbe last chapter, he is necessarily and coose·
quently plac~d'lD a. position towards the Fraternity which be had not before occn·
pied, and wbrnh position requires some examination.
" In the first place, there can be oo re-consideration of his application on a mere
vote of re-consideration by the Lodge. • • •
"In ~be next place, he can apply to no other Lodge for initiation. Having been
once re;ected by"'. c~rtalo Lodge, be .i s forever debarred the privilege of applying to
noy _other for adf1!1ss1on. T~e law Is 1mpllcltly derived from the regnlations which
forbid Lod.ges to m~erfere. with each other's work. The candidate, as I have already
ob~er_ved, 1s to be vrnwed ID our speculative system as •material brought op for the
burldmp; of the temple.' The act of loveatlgatiog the fitness or unfitness of that
material co~stitotes a. part of. Masonic labor, and when a Lodge bas commenced
that labor, 1t Is considered d1sconrieons for any other to interfere with it. This
~eotiment.of coortes.Y'., which Is in the _true spirit ?f Masonry, is frequently inculcated
m the aocien t Masomc codes. Thoe, 10 the Gothic Constitutions, it is laid down that
'a brother sbnll not supplant hie Fellow in the work; ' the •ancient charges at
makings,' adopted in the time of James II, also direct that 'no Master or Fellow
soppla.ot oth_ers of their work ; ' and the charges approved in 1722 are still more
explicit lo dir~ctiog that none shall attempt to finish the work begun by hie brother."
CIIABLKS w. MoOBB, or Massachusetts, WJLLI.UI[ P. MllLLElll, of Mississippi and
WILLIAM S. ROOKWllLL, of Georgia, held to the same views. To these names ~ight
be add.ed others, bot the fact that the leading Masons of Massachusetts New York
South Carolina, Georgia and Mississippi held the same views opon this question'
shows c~ncloslveiy the consmsua of Masonic opinion in the time when \hey lived. '
Turomg now to the codes of Masonic law in the different jurisdictions, we find
the same rule almost universally prevailing ootil within a few years.
It "."ontd b~ beyon~ the limits of ~hie report to give a foll report of the law and
usage 10 the different Grand Lodges ID the United States, from their organization·
'
bot the following is sufficient to show what the law formerly wwi :ALABAMA, 1856. A rejected candidate cannot be recelve~by any Lodge without
the consent of the rejectinir Lodge.
ARIZONA, 1884. See California.
ABll.A!ISAS, 1~75. "A rejected candidate for Initiation ~anoot be accepted by any
other Lodges without the consent of the Lodge which rejected him."
CALtFOB!llA, 1883. And her daughter Grand LoJges, Nevada and Arizona make
rejection a ba_r for .one year, after which the Lodge which bas territorial j~rlsdic·
tioo, can receive him.
CoLOBADO, 1888. Same as California; bot cannot apply within the year to any
other tbao the rejecting Lodge without its unanimous consent.
CONNECTICUT. In 1795 t.bis Grand Lodge adopted the following regulations:. "ReBOlved, Th~t ~fa candidat~ f?r initiation shall make application to be admitted
mt? any L_odge w1thm the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, when his nsnal ,Place of
residence is nearer to another Lodge than that to which be shall so apply his name
if the Lodgl! direct, may be entered on the books; and It shall be the doty of th~
Secretary. of said Lodge to communicate Information In writing, without delay, of
lllch apphcatron, to the Secretary of the other Lodge, and request of him to know
whether there is any objection from that Lodge to the admission of the applicant
And. if it shall be determined in open stated L<1dge that there are any real ob;ectioo~
to his person or character, which determination shall be had by ballot, in the same
way WI for the Initiation of a candidate, then it shall be the indispensable duty of
the Secretary of the (,odge !wit mentioned, forth with to transmit a copy of the pro·
oee_diogs of said Lodge on this subject to the Secretary of the Lodge to whom appli·
cat100 was first made, and the applicant shall not be admitted. And no candidate
nuder the circumstances above mentioned, shall be initiated within the term of thre~

696

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

months from and after the time be was first proposed. This will not ~e considered
as affecting any person living witbh: the limits of a town where there 1s a regolarly
established Lodii:e, though be may be nearer to a Lodge in another town, anything
.
to the contrary notwithstanding.
" Resolved, That whenever a candidate for initiation is proposed .to any Lodge
within the jorisdictioo of this Grand Lodge, and not accepted, it shall be the doty of
the Secretary, as soon as may be, to communicate information thereof to the Grand
Secretary, to be by him transmitted to the several Lodges io this State. Provided,
n~vertheless, that no communication is to be made of any one who sboold be rejected
..
merely oo accooot of non-age."
In 1801, a Lodge complained to the Grand Lodgetbataootber Lodge bad Initiate~
a candidate living within the limits of the complaining Lodge who bad been prev1oosly rejected by it, and that these facts were known to the other Lodii:e. '.fhe_otber
Lodire was snmmooed to appear before the Grand Lodge, bot at the bearing it was
foood that the accused Lodite did not have knowledge of the rejection, and was, in
coo•eqnence, only censored.
In 1807, a vote of a Lodge was onaoimously adopted prohibiting a CMtaio man
from visiting the Lodge and declaring that they woold not treat him as a Mason oo
accoont of" the vileness of bis character;" a statement accompanied the vote, that
be bad been rejected by the Lodge, but bad gone to New York and been initiated:
tbereopon the Grand Secretary was directed to notify all the Lodges "that they
may consider and treat him as expelled from the Masonic Society."
DBL.t.WARE, 1888. May aoply tn same Lodge after one year.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, 1888. Cannot be received by another Lod!l'e till after one
year, and then only with the consent of rejeotiog Lodge by a two-thirds vote.
FLORIDA, lR85. Rejection a bar for one year and no longer.
GBORGTA. 1891. The old law still io force.
IDAHO, 1886. Rejection a bar for six months only,
ILLINOIS, 1845. The following report was adopted by the Grand Lodge :" Y oor committee are of the opinion that it would be a wholesome role for this
Grand Lodge to observe, that oo candidate who haR been once rejected should be
balloted for in the same Lodge, unless there be present all who were present at the
time of bis rejection; and not in another Lodge in this juri•diction in lees than
twelve months, and not thereafter, without perruiBBion of the Grand Master and of
the Lodge which rejected him."
IHDIANA. In 1824, Zif Lodge oomplaioed to the Gran cl Lodge that .Abrams Lodge
of Keotocky had initiated one of its rejected candidates. The complaint was referred
to a committee, which reported the followio·g resolution, which was •dopted by the
Grand Lodge, which directed a copy of It to be sent to the Grand Master of Kentockv with the request that Keotocky shoold also adopt it:"0Resoloed, As the opinion of this Grand Lodge, that it is uomasooic for any
Lodge working under the jorisdiction of this Grand Lodge to initiote any person
applyinii: for the same, when it shall be known to s.ucb subordinate Lnd.a:e that the
candidate has been rejected by another Lodge, without the consent and approbation
of the Lodge by which be was rejeoted."
This resolotioo was poblished as a general regolation, and waR poblisbed lo 1845
as" b"vlng yet the force of law." How moch longer it was in force we have not
11scertained.
INDIAN T11RBITORY, 1887. Cannot apply to the rejecting Lodge till after one year;
we do not find any provision in relation to other Lodges.
low A, 1844. No Lodge can ••act upon the pe~itioo of any one who bas at a~y
time before been rejected, except all the members should be present who acted m
the instance of the rejection, or by •peclal di•pen•ation of the Grand Lodge."
KA.NsA8, 1855. Same as California ; but in 1889, a petition to the same Lodge
can be received after six months.
Kll?ITUOKY. The Grand Master replie.J to the Grand Lodge of Indiana , that he
had no knowledge of the letter till he S>\w it in the proceedings; that the following
rule had been adopted "as early as 1818 ":"After a candidRte bas been rejected by one Lodge, be cannot knowingly be
received by another without the uo11nlmous consent of the Lodge which rejected
him." [Indiana Reprint, p. 183.]
In view of the fraternal character or the response, the Grand Lodge of Indiana
voted not to press the complaint fnrther.
We do not know how long this law was In force, but we do fincl that this Grand
Lodge publiBhea the names of rejected candidates down to 1851. Why 7
LOUISIANA, 1893. No other Lodge can receive a petition unless it is recommended
by five members of the rejecting Lodge, among whom most be at least two of the
chair officers.

1896.J

t

Grand Lodge of California.

697

MAINE, 111«. No other Lodge can receive a petition onless it is rt00mmended by
the Master and Wardens and three other membP.rs of the rejected Lodge.
MARYLAND. Only by consent of rejecting Lodge.
MA•RAOHUSKT'rs. Same as Maine, as far back as we can trace the Jaw and osage.
:M1CBIGAN, 1890. Not wit~out the unanimous consent of the rejecting Lodge.
MINNESOTA, JRR7. Rejection a bar for six months only.
M1ssiss1PPI, 1891. Lodges have perpetual jurisdiction over all rejeoted candi·
dates for lmtiatinn.
MISSOURI, 1RA2. A bar for one yea-r and no longer.
MoNTANA, 1887. Only by consent of rejecting Lodge by a three-fourths vote.
NEBRASKA, 1857. "No Lndg:e shl\ll Initiate Into the mysteries of the Oraft any
per•on whomsoever, without fl.r•t being satisfied by a test, or otherwise, that the
candidate has not made application to some other Lodii:e and been rejected ; and if
it shall appear that he has been rejected, then the Lodge must he satisfactori?y convinced that snch rejection bas not be~n on account of any oircomstaoces that ought
to preolude him from the benefits of Masonry; otherwise, the interdiction is positive
and peremptory."
NsvADA. See California.
Naw HAMPSHIRE, 1369. Only by consent of rejecting Lodge by a ooaoimoos vote.
Nsw Msx1co. Bar for one year only.
NBw YoB.K, 1894, and always. Only by consent of rejecting Lodge by a majority
·
<rote.
NoRTH CAROLINA, 1888. Bar for one year, and the by-law seems to assume that
the petition will be presented only to the same Lodge.
NORTH DAKOTA, 1889. Bar for six months and no lonirer.
OHIO, 1RR2. Only hy consent of rejecting Lodge by unanimous vote.
OKLAHOMA, 18!l3. Not at all within six months; and after that only by consent
of rejecting Lodge.
OBllGON, 1895. "No petition shall be entertained by any Lodge lo this jurisdiction from an applicant who has been previously rejected by any Lodge, withoot the
eon•ent of the Lodge which rejected him."
P11sNSYLVANIA. Rejecting Lodge ha• perpetual jurisdiction.
RHODE 1st.um, Adopted March 5, 1802. a revised constitution, drafted by THOMAS
SMITH WKBB, which provides that "No petition sh~ll be received in any Lodge from
a perRon who has previously been rejected in another Lodge, noleBB It be accom·
panied with u.recommeodation granted h.Vn. unanimons ballot of the members present
at a regnlar meeting of the Lodge in wbioh such rejection may have occurred· bat
no Lodge shall grant such a recommendation, nor any motion made for that purpose,
in favor of a candidate who ha• been rejected by more than two votes.''
SOUTH CA110LINA. Now and always, rejecting Lodge bas perpetoal jurisdiction.
SOUTH DAKOTA. Bar, only for a limited time; presomably the same as in North
Dakota.
TBNNESSBE, 1842. "No candidate for initiation, who shall be rejected by any
Lodge under tbis jorisdictioo, •hall he eligible to a second recommendation In the
Lodge in which he was rejected, or any other Lodge onder this jurisdiction, until the
expiration of twelve months, onless the brother or brothers objecting shall, in open
J,odge, withdraw his or their objections."
'l'bis was inserted in the revised constitution and is the first and earliest departure
from the old law that we have foond.
TBx&s, 1878. A rejected candidate can apply to aoothM Lodge only by a waiver
of jurisdiction by the rejecting Lodge, and a refusal to waive is a second rejection.
·
UTAH. Bar, only for a limited time.
Vu1110NT, 1897. No constitutional provision; but a decision in 1886 that a rejection ls a bar for one year and no longer.
VIBGINI.t., 1~89. Rejected oandidate cannot appl.v to any Lodge nntil after one
:rear, and then only to the rejeot.iog Lodge, if be resides in its jurisdiction; he cannot
appl:v to a Lodge h•viug jurisdiction concurrent with the rejecting Lodge.
WASHINGTON, 1888. Uanoot apply till after one year, and Lodge cannot accept
until it has notified the rejecting Lodge, asked for information, and waited ninety
days to receive it; and if received, must give it weight.
WxsT VIRGINIA, 1885. "Nor shall any Lodge entertain the application for the
mysteries of Freemasonry of any one who has been rejected in any other Lodge
'
without the written consent of such Lodge."
W1sooNSIN, 1886, Rejection a bar for one y.earaod no longer.
WYOMING, 1872. Cannot apply to same Lodge within six months: Nebraska rule
as to other Lodges.
'.fbe dates above given, except when otherwise stated, indicate the date of pobli·
cation of the Constitution or Code of By-Laws to which we have had access.

698

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

In nearly all the jnrisdictions, Lodges have been required t_o notify _the ot~er
Lodges, either directly or through the Grand Secretary, of all reject~o~s. Thts r~~u1re­
ment is not now so universal as formerly , many Grand Lodgesrequmng the pet1t1oner
to state in his petition whether he has ever been rejected or not, deeming tbis preferable to sending oat notices of rejections.
Formerly, also, eome Grand Lodges pnblisbed rejections preoisely tbe sa~e as
snspeosions and expnlsioos, bot this was objected to on the gronnd that, whfle 1t was
important that the public sbonld know that unworthy Masons had been suspended or
expelled, the rejection of a cl\ndidate concerns only the Oraft, and, therefore, that
notice to the Oraft is all that ehonld be given, and after an animated dieon•sion,
running through several years, the practice was abandoned, we believe, by all the
Grand Lodges that bad ever adopted it.
In many of the jnriedictions, moreover, It is expressly enacted tbat any MRBon
who shall knowingly recommend for, or assist in, the initiation of e. rejected candidate, without the proyer consent, shall be expelled.
It is tbos seen, tba formerly the overwhelming preponderance of opioioq, neage
and law was, that the rejected candidate conld only apply to the rejecting Lodge or
to some other with Its consent, while some held that he conld apply only to the
rejecting Lodge.
While several of the Grand Lodges have modified the old law, and the younger
Grand Lodges have adopted a limitation of time, all the Grand Lodges, with1>ut a
single PZCeplion, place a rejected candidate under a disability for a longer or shorter
time, which only the rejecting Lodge can remo11e DURING THAT Tll!IE, when it can be
removed at all. The disability Is the conseqnence of the rejection, which is, under
Ma•onic Jaw, the decision of the Lodge that the candidate le then nnfit to be made a
M•son. It is precisely similar to the decision of a Lodge when it suspends or expels
a Maeon, that he is not flt to remain a Mason ; he has the same privilege as the re·
jected candidate ; he can apply to the same Lodge for restorat\on. When a Mason is
suspended for a definite time, be ie restored to hie .Maeonio rights at the And of that
time, precisely as if he had never been snspended; when he is suspended for an
indefinite time and is restored by his Lodge, be then resumes hie Masonic rights to
the same extent; so in case of rejected candidates, when the time dnring whic;h his
disability lasts bas expired, he le restored to the same condition in which he was
before he applied, and can petition again precisely as If he bad never been rejected ;
and if the time is indefinite, he ie restored only by the action of the Lodge which
rejected him.
It bas been argued that Masonry has no jnriediction over a profane. Tbis proposition is utterly absurd on its face, or else is inapplicable to the question under d1e~ne­
eioo, according to t.he meaning given to it: because the moment t he Lodge recei11ea
a petilionfrom a profane, he is onder the jurisdiction of the Lodge: he cannot with·
draw it, if the f,odge has jurisdiction, without.the consent of the Lodge, aud in most
ju• iedictions that consent can be given only to an accepted candidate. If the petition
is received by the Lodge aod it haR jurisdiction, the candidate most nudergo the
ordeal of the ballot and abide the result.
We conclude, therefore, that thP rejection of a candidate is a .Masonic decision
that be is then unfit to be made a .Mason, and, precisely like a suspension, the disability follows him wherever be goes, aud contiunes for the time for which, nnder ~he
law, it was imposed.
The next loqairy is, ought the decision of the Lodge to be perpetual, to be
removed ooly by the rejecting Lodge?
It is held by some that the Jaw is a landmark and cannot be changed; but if a
Lodge may waive jurisdiction over its accepted work. and allow another Lodge to
fioisb it, either on its own accouot or on accom!t of the first Lod11e, as seems to be
universally conceded, and is in accordance with neage, it would see m that it might
also waive itsjuri•diction over its rejected material: moreover, this subject has been,
certainly for abont ooe hundred years past, one of Grand Lodge Regulation, and we
are of the opinion that such is the correct Maeooic law : this conceded, it follows
that each Grand Lodge may eoact for its own jnriediction such law as it deems the
good of the Ore.ft requires.
The faci thai a rejected candidate is allowed to apply again, coaclasively estab·
lisbee the presnmption of Masonic Jaw thai he may become fit, or show that he is flt
to be made a Mason. It is now the almost universal law, at least in this country,
and ought to be everywhere, that a candidate shall apply where he is best known,
and this is assumed to be the Lodge nearest hie home. It is evident that tbis law
applies with eqnal l'orce t o rejected candidates, when they apply a second time.
In this country, where men frequently move from their ehildhood'e home. and make
a new one in a place so distant that bis old oeighbore have little or no knowledge of
him thereafter, it would follow that those among whom he lived in hie new home,
after 1utfioient time, would become the beet judges of hie fitness to be made a Mason :

1896.]

Grand Lorlge of California.

699

this is, also, true of different localities in the same State. It, therefore, follows that
the disability caused by rejection •hould he controlled by the rejecting Lodge for 00
longer than a reasonable time, and, th~refore, that its continuance should be limited
to a reasonable length of time. Of'coorse, the length of time is absolutely immaterial in cases in which the candidate remains within the jurisdiction of the rejectiog
Lodge.
What then le a reasonable time!
Here we regret that the argoments advanoed by many who have discussed this
question require us to call attention to the principles upon which this inquiry should
proceed. It goes without saying that the good of the Craft and the welfare of the
Institution should be the absolutely controlling elemeots in the determinatioo of this
question. It should also be remembered that both of these have been injured by the
admission of unfit material more t hlln hy all other causes combined. But in many
quarters this question has been discussed as if every p rofane had a right t o be made
a Mason, nnless the Fraternity, t aking the burden upon itself, should show affirmatively that the candidate is nnflt to be made a Mason. Thie has not been the language
or sentiments of the fathers in this jurisdiction in their exhortations to "guard well
the outer door," and we are constrained to believe that it is cooflned to a few whose
llie&l in behalf of rejected candidates bas caused them to forget that the ir first and
paramount dnty Is t o the Ore.ft.
That "dnl' inquiry " into tbe charactf>r of a proposed candidllte is enj oined by
necessary i~plication in the Ancient Chargee, , by express enactment In the Old
Regulations, m the cbnrge to a Master at hie Installation, and in tbe universal M• sonic
Jaw, all admit theoretically, but we regret to say that the tendency practically is to
ignore it. The desire, for variooe reasons, to iocreaee our membership, bas led to
each a r elaxation of the duty to "make due Inquiry" as to allow the admission of a
largely increased number of unfit meo. "Confidence is a plant of slow growth " iA
only a form of saying that a man's true character cannot be discovered in a day.
When a man grows op in a community, his neighbors are able to make " due
Inquiry " into his character in a b rief time, because t hey have the true basie for a
deoislon-a good know ledge of h ie character. But when a man comes a stranger
into a community, a year ia an exceedingly brief time within which a correct judgment nf hie fitness to be a Ma~oo can be determined. Certainly a year is an unreasonably short time within which to determinA the fitness of a man to be made a
Mason, who comes from a distant place with the disability ofrejection upon him.
It would seem to reqaire no argument to prove that the same rule ought not to
be applied to a man who grew up in the c1>mmonity , a man who comes a stranger
into the same community, and a man who comes t here not only a stranger, but also
nuder the ban of rejection by a Lodge in the place where he bad lived.
Your committee believe that one year is an nnreasonable time, dangerously short,
withm which to limit the disability of a rejection : and t hat a man should be required
to show by his daily conduct for a looger time that he is flt to be a Mason, unl• Bs he
can have the concurrent jndgment of the Lodg& which rejected him, and the Lodge
within whose jurisdiction he has lived for the time required in order t o enable him
to make application , or the Lodge to which he applies, when he applies to one in
whose jm·isdiction be does not reside.
Oar own Grand Lodge has Oxed fi11e y ears 9S a reasonable time for the continu·
aoce of the disability, unless removed by the concurrent action by nnanimons vote
of the two Lodges: while the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts has fixed 1euen year1,
unless the Master and Wardens, and three other members of the rejecting Lodge,
after notice to the Lodge of the application, aod time for presenting objectiuos, shall
give the party a reoommendatw n to the other Lodge. Thie last role is oot op en to
the objection that one .Mason, a nd p erhaps an unworthy ooe1 can keep out of the
fnternity a good man. To secur e uniformity, we have no noobt
that the Grand
lodge of Maine will reconsider its a ction, and adopt any r ea9ouable rule that will
protect the welfare of the Craft.
B\li there ia another questi_on, ont of which the dange r of disturbing the fraternal
relations of Grand Lodges with each other, moredirectlyar i~ee. While the pre ponderance of decision is that the disahility of a rejected candidate follows him wherever
be g~ee, a few Grand Lodges bold to the contrary, and allow their Lodges to initiate
caod1dateR who are oot.ler the disability of a rejection in another juriedlctioo.
It would seem tha~ among Masons a Grand Lodge wonld give to the acts of any
~dge the same effect given to t hem by the Grant! Lodge under whose Jaw and
11tu1horlty such acts were done, unless those laws ar e in conftict with the superior
1r binding upon all Lodges.
T~e ool.i: reason given for the de~ire of doing otherwise in relation to rej ected
nd1datee 1s that the Lodge desires to add to its members, and the rej ection by the
lither Lodge may have beeo for Improper reasons. We have already noticed this
last argnmeot as one against " perpetulll jurisdiction ;" b ot in this connect ion it also

;

700

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

involves the absurdity of legislating for the ran• exoeptiona in a class of cases indtead
of for the whole class ; and worse tban that, it puts on the same level the one" rejected
for good causes, even those whom the Investigating Committee report as nnwortby,
and the ones whom, they fear, are rejected witbont jnst cause. This argument,
"boiled down," is simply this: "We want new members so much, and care so little
in comparison for the good of the Craft, that we n.re willing to take the risk of
admitting those whom our sister Lodges in other jurisdictions have pronounced
unworthy."
The proposition of so-called Masonic law, under which this practice is attempted
to be defended, is substantially this: "Each Grand J,odge is supreme within Its
jnrisdiction, and the laws of other Grand Lodges have no force therein: hence each
Grand Lodge may determine for itself what persons, resident in its own territory,
may be admitted into Its Lodges.''
· This utterly ignores the idea that Masonry is an institution with laws binding upon
all Grand Lodges." We greatly lament to notice the apparently growing tendency
of opinion and action, that each Grand L.odge Is a separate and distinct institution
from the others in all respects, rather than a component part of one Institntion.
When It was pointed out that this proposition affirms the right of a Grand Lodge
to authorize the admission into its Lodges of those snspended or expelled in other
jurisdictions, its sop porters made baste to modify it by adding substantially'! except
those under disability." The modification utterly deetroys the argument, and brings
ue back to the qnestion whether a rejected candidate is under disability; this, we
have shown, is the case universally in those jurisdictions which reject the doctrine
of "perpetual jnriedlction," as well as those who maintain it.
In this connection, we should note that some of the Grand Lodges which adopted
the new doctrine made rejections by their own Lodges perpetual (without the consent of the rejecting L<1dge), while rejections outside of their jnrisdiction . were
utterly disregarded. Some of them, when this lnconsisteucy was pointed out,
amended their laws as soon as may be, bnt whether all have yet done so we c1,1nnot
tell,
Your committee are, therefore, of' the opinion that the initiation of a rejected candidate, before he is relieved from the disability imposed by the law of the juriadiction
In which he was rejected, is a violation of the law binding upon all Grand Lodges,
preci•ely a~ the inltiauon of a Mason suspended or expelled in another jurisdiction
woald be.
Such is the decision of ma11y of the Grand Lodges, which have enacted that. no
candidate rejected In one of their Lodges and made a Mason in another jurisdiction,
without the proper llonsent, shall be recognized as a Mason by the Lodv;es or Masons
of their several obediences. !lome, when sueh cases come to their knowledge, issue
edicts to all the Masons in the jurisdiction, denouncing the party as a clandestine
Mason, and declaring any Mason holding Masonic comm11nication with him liable to
expulsion.
Of course this is denoanced i11 the jurisdictions in which rejected candidates are
admitted. They claim that these candidates are made Masons in a regular Lodge,
and therefore are entitled to recog11ition everywhere, and that the edicts, to which
we have referred, are in violation of Masonic law.
This argnment does lie In the month of some of them, for they have a law that if a
resident oft.hat j11risdiotlon goes to another and gets admitted, he shall not be recog·
nized as a Mason without the consent of the Lodge in whose jurisdiction he resided,
or, in some, by the permission of the Grand Ma•ter.
But the proposition that "a person made a Meson In a lawfnl Lodge is a regular
Mason," bas limitations. If the candidate was absolutely ineligible, his making is
void ; the ma.king he•le Irregularities, but does not make a. Mason of one who cannot
h~ made a Ma.so11. We have no doubt that everywhere the admission of trn expelled
Mason would be held utterly void: in those jurisdictions in which a rejected cendi·
date is ineligible, his admlasion is held to be utterly void, precisely as 11· be had been
an expelled Mason.
These diverse views show more forcibly than any words of ours could show, the
imminent danger of wide-spreading dissension and tne conseqnent necessity of the
taking of measures to secure uniformity of legislation anent Ibis subject.
It was objected to the "Mississippi proposition" that it was to be a treaty be·
tween the Oraud Lodges, and objectionable on that acconnt; while we do not
u11derstand that it was so intended, we desire to prevent the Interposition of that
obje~.tion. and therefore desire It to be understood that we sugge8* legislation of a
uniform character in the dilierent jarisdictione.

1896.]

Grand, Lodge of OaUfornia.

701

In_ onr judgment, the basis should be t~e ~ecogn~tioli of tbe~dls~bllity of rejected
candidates according to the law o~ the jor1ed1ction ID which the rejection was made
and the limitation of that disability to encb reasonable time as will protect th~
welfare of the Oraft.
With that view, we submit the annexed resolutions.
JOllI.U! H. DRUMMOND,}
Committee.
MARQUIS F. KING,
HoRAUB H. BuaBAJ111:,
.
.
Re90loed! Tb.at tb1e Grand Lodge, 18 deeply Impressed with tbe neceoeity of
aniform leg1s~at1on by the several Grand Lodges In relation to the admission of
ieJectell ca11d1dates.
!lesolned,, That the elf'?.ot of a rejection shonld be llmlted to five years, and that
dunng that time the cano1date •hould be a.Bowed to petition only to the Lodge
which rejected him, or to another Lodge with the consent of that Lodge, or such
consent of otllce~e ~nd me.mber~ of that .Lodge as may be prescribed by the Grand
Lodge of the jnrisd1ctlon ID which the reJeotion occnrs.
R•IOl'Oed, That each of the Representatives of this Grand Lodge be requested to
present these resolutlo~~ to the Grand Lodge to which he is accredited and request
tor them fraternal consideration.
Report accepted and resolutions adopted.
Bro. DRUllMOND, for the same committee, also made the following report:Under Section 81 of the Oonstita~ion, the power ~o authorize a Lodge to meet in
a town other than the one named 10 the charter, 1s vested in the Grand Master
1olely.
The work was exemplified before Grand Lodge by Grand Lecturer Sr.BEPBB and
bis assistants.
Bro. DBU)O[OND, for Ju~isprndence, reported:The Oommittee on Masonic Jarisprndence, to which was referred the commooicatlon from the Grand Lodge of Greece, ask leave to report:That th~t Grand Lodge having revoked the charters of her ·Lodges Pythagoras and
A;thena (Mmerva), no brethren bailing from either of those Lodges shonld be recog·
mzed as regular Masone, nor any Masonic intercourse be had with them.
And furthermore, tha~ no credence .whatever should be given to any docome 11 t,
purportmg to. be Maso.DIC and emanatmg from any self.styled Masonic power in
Greece, bear1Dg the signature of TIMOLBON l'JIILlld:ON as Grand Master or or A
'
'
BBISAKIS as Grand Secretary.
Grand Lodge directed the Oommittee on Finance to procure new clothing and
Jewels, as prescribed by Grand Lodge, with a suitable number of aprons for permanent members.
Referring to the Wisconsin ~reposition for the di88emination of Maso 11ic charily,
Bro. DBU!IMOND, for the Committee on Jorisprodence, reported against the proposition, and submitted the following as expressive of the sense of the Grand Lodge of
.Maioe:.Resolued, That this Grand Lodge cannot accede to the proposition or our Wisconsm brethren, beca11se It holds:1. T~at ~very Mason !s nnder equal obligation to every other worthy brother to
relleve his distress acco!dmg to ~Is necessity and hie own ability.
2. That the sole claim of a distressed worthy brother tor relief grows oat of his
hftlg a .Maaon, and not out or bis hailing contributed to the funth of a particular
~t.

~ Tba~ the asBociation of Masons i11 a Lodge in no manner relieves them from
their lnd1V1dual obllgatlons, ~nd th!l-t when they act as a Lodge, their duty, and,
\berefore, thitt of t_be L~dK~, 1s precisely the same as that of the individual Mason.
a d!bt.That Maeomc relief is never purchased or sold, and, therefore, never creates
The attention of the committee being called to the action of the Obicago CongreBB
'
added the following to their report:-

A'{J'Pealafor: .Aid. The conclusion of the Ooogreas is, that worthy Maso1114 are
Ill titled to rehef from brethren and Lodges wheresoever they may be found fn need

702

Procwlings of the

[Oct. 15,

of relief, and that the brethren or Lodges granting snch aid are not entitled to de·
mand re-imbnrsement from the Lodges in which they hold their membership, but that
when a member of one Lodge is relieved by another, and tbe financial situation of
his Lodge in such as to permit, common oonrtesy and duty alike demand that it
should re-imburse a poorer Lodge relieving its members. Written or printed appeals
for aid which do not secure the indorsement of the Grand Master of the jurisdiction
from wbicb they emanate, should be disoountenanoed.
We do not fully eodor~e this "Conclusion;" if it is once established as law that
"common courtesy antl duty" reqnire a Lodge to re-imburee nnder any circumstances, it opens the door to further and irreater departures from the old law. We
hold, therefore, that it is for the Lodge in every Cll3e to determine what it will do;
and what it does, it must do, not nnder the doress of law, bnt of its own free will:
and whatever its conclusion, no one has any Masonic right to complain.
The report was accepted, the resolution adopted, and It wasReoohied, That a sufficient number of the resolution, with a suitable preamble, be
printed to snpply every Mason in this jurisdiction.
Concerning a decision of Grand Master BUIIBANK last year, Bro. DRUMMOND, for
the committee, made report, as follows:1. That the second decision be approved. In order, however, that there may be
no ruisunderRtanding, your committee desire to add: It is now the general opinion
that Ma•on~ do not sufficiently cultivat~ social relations. In olden times, It was the
custom to have refreshment at every Communication of the Lodge, which, however,
was paid for at the time by tboae who were present. The old charters directed that
the brethren should observe St. John's days and dine together. The usage was that
tickets were sold to pay the expenses, but any deficit was made up by the Lodge.
The custom of having refreshments at meetings of the Lodges was discontinued
on account of abases, which now conld not arise.
We believe that a return to the old custom would be for the benefit of the Craft,
and that the use of Lodge funds, to a reasonable amonnt, considering the circum·
stances of the Louge and without infringing upon the savings of former years, or its
ability to relieve distressed worthy brethren, may be used for that purpose.

We believe the above action to he wise and jndiclons and a retnrn to the" good
old ways " divested of tbP.ir evil possibilities.
Forty-nine pages are devoted to the reports of the twenty-four District Deputy
Grand Masters, giving their financial condition and the details of their workings.
REPORT ON COBBESPONDENCE.
Bro. DRUMMOND has placed his mark npon another splendid paper and filed it In the
archives of the Grand Lodge of Maine, sending out a copy for the ose and benefit of
the Masonic Fraternity. The report is a great one-one upon which the writer may
safely rest his fame as e. wise and acoomplished Freemason and a true 13xponnder of
the laws, tenets and customs of the great Fraternity. The work Is elaborate, cover·
ing two hundred and seventy-four pages of the journal, and treats exhaustingly the
proposition of the Grand Lodge or Wisconsin relating to the dissemination of charities,
Mississippi's proposed mies relating to jurisdiction, and the recognition of the Grand
lJieta of Mexico. He reviews the proceedings of all the North American Grand
Lodg~s, and nearly all if not every quesnon at present vexing the average oorre·
spondent or threatening the peace and harmony of the Craft.
It seems almost wicked that the eminent author should have thought it necessary
to make the following reqnest to the Worshipful brethren of Maine. He says, in
closing:We submit our report with the earnest hope that it will be read by every Mason
in Me.ine who loves 111.asonry, and shall, as an oflicer of the Craft, review the proceeding•. We so hope, not because we have written it, but for the reasons which have

led to our writing U.

His review of California ls of the administration of Grand Master JAMES B. STEVENS,
bot in taking np his work bis first thoughts naturally reverted to his old friend and

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifi:Jrnia.

703

companion, Bro. WILLIAH C. BELCB&B, and he commenced hie notice of the Grand
Lodge of California with the following alfectionate and well-!leeerved tribnte. He
says:The Grand Lodge, and the Masonic Fraternity as a whole, have sulfered an
exceedingly great loss in the death of Past Grand Master WILLIAH CALDWELL
B&LCBER, for three years Grand Master and for twenty-eight years Chairman of the
Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence. He waR elected Grand Master in May, 1862,
almost the very day on which the writer was elected to his third term. His Annnal
Address, in 1864, was one of the first which we bad to review in onr first report for
this committee. We were struck by the unusual ability shown by his Address, and
as be was soon after appointed on the Committee on Jurisprudence, we have had
oocasitm to know him through his reports ever since.
At the Templar Reunion in Boston we met Past Grand Master WILLIAM A. DA vms,
and were greatly pleased to receive through him a special message from Bro.
BELCHER; we deemed it a sp.ecial honor. Little did we think that Bro. DAVIES would
be unable to deliver onr message in reply. But so it was; on the Sunday following
our interview Bro. BELCHER saw the last of earth, and Bro, DAVIES never looked on
his lace again.
Bro. BELCHED was born in Stockbridge, Vermont, December 12, 1820, and died in
San Franciscn, September 1, 1895, being nearly 75 years old.
He graduated at the Universi$y of Vermont in 1843 ; taught for some years, but
studied law, and was admitted to the bar In 1852. In 18;a be went to Marysville,
California, and went into practice with his brother; sn bsequently he removed to
San Francisco, and continued his practice there till bis death, dying with bis professional harness on. The committee say of him: " As a lawyer, be stood at the
bead of bis profession. He was honest and capable. No one who knew him ever
qnestioned bis integrity; and no one who ever practiced law with him doubted his
eminent ability. He possessed to a high degree the conrage of his convictions. In
debate he was strong and convincing. If in the wrong, he sought to be right; if
right, he was fearless, and asserted himself with all the vigor of his forceful man·
hood. The gentleness of his disposition, the simplicity of his manners, added to his
tall, commanding person made him at once a most conspicuous and most. lovable
man. Be combined in a high degree the opposite qualities of goodness and great·
ness."
To whicb Past Grand Master CURTIS adds :" He was wise in counsel, bold in action and fearless in debate. Conscious of the
rectitude of his own intentions, he was ever ready to grant to others the same
honesty of pnrpose that he claimed for himself. He was a profonnd jnribt, learned
in the science and ethics of the civil law, and by his scholarly attainments, his
unflinching integrity and unyielding fid~lity to every trust reposed in him, he left the
1alprees of his genius upon the jurisprndence of bis State."
He wa• an unceasing, tireless worker. He became Senior Grand Warden in 1860,
Deputy Grand Master and really ai:ting Grand Master in 1861, and Grand Master the
next yee.r. and for thirty· five sessions of the Grand Lodge was one of its main pillars
of support.
It has been our lot to discuss many of his reports, and, educated In ditlerent
schools of Masonic law, we did not always agree. He stated his own case as it
waB, e.nd bis adveraary's also; he never misrepresented his opponent's position.
He was not striving for victory, bot to discover and maintain the truth. He held tbat
a failure to meet his opponent's attack sqnarely was an admission that it could not
be done. We shall greatly miss his instructive reports and the rare privilege of dis·
cussing them.
T he Grand Master, JAMES BAUNTY STEVENS, was called npon to announce also
the death of Past Grand Master JOHN MILLS BROWNE, who died in Washington,
December 7, 1894. He was born in Hinsdale, N. B., :May 10, 1831. Re appeared
In Grmd Lodge in 1871, as Master of his Lodge. He was then a Surgeon in the U.S.
Navy. He distingnisbed himself so much at that session of Grand Lodge, in support
of an amendment to the constitution allowing Lodges to receive petitions·from oan·
~dates In the milit11ry and nave.I service who had not resided the required time in
ihejurisdictlon, and made so favorable an impres•ion that he was elected Junior
Grand Warden. He wa• elected Senior Grand Warden the next year, Deputy
Grand Me.ster the next, and then lonr times Grand Master. While he had not resided
.ID California for several years before his death, his able admlni-tration of' Masonic
alfalrs made an impress which is still felt. Moreover, be maintained his interest in
Xasonry to the time of his death. He was an oflicer and one of the ablest members
of $be Sonthern Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite.

704

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

In the deaths of Bros. BBLCBBB and BBow1111 the lnstitotlon throughout the
coon try bas snstaiued a severe loss. Bot in addition to their spl~od ld exampleP, they
have left behind works worthy of the study of the Craft for all time.

We are confident we voice the unanlmoos sentiment of Grand Lodge in saying
that Bro. DBUHMONI>, by bis graoefal and earnest tribute to oor illustrloos departed
Past Grand Masters, bas earne.d and will receive the grateful thanks of the Grand
Lodge of California.
Bro. DRUMMOND notes the Grand Master's Address, and qnotes bis rulings io two
cases where the law of Grand Lodge was disregarded, in permitting members in
arrears to vote at an election, which were sustained by Grand Lodge, and which, he
claims, "practically" annuls the law. He is pleased with the promise of" repay·
ment" by bis zealous interest lo Freemasonry, to Grand Lodge for its tag advances
in the WALTER WILCOX guardianship, and with the report of the Grand Master's
visitations and the social features of the Masonic family gatherings with which be was
welcomed. He does not agree with Grand Lodge in its Grand Lecturer regolatioos,
"because it shows the real weakoeBB of the system." He says :From experience in Maine and observation elsewhere for many years, if Grand
Lodge would require the Inspector to visit each Lodge in his district and pay his
expenses, there would be no call for the recommendation of the Graad Lecturer.
On the subject of relief he says:The varions reports of the Boardil of Relleffarnish material for study. 9ne thing
Is certain : the amount of relief granted in any one of many caaes, would, if granted
habitually, bankrupt a large m&Jority of our Eastern Lodges.
In a case of discipline, he says :The Grand Lodge set aside an ex pulsion by the Lodge for informality, but itself
expelled the accused. It is evident this practice is on the increase. Brethren are
discovering that it is generally much better for Grand Lodge, when a case Is before
It, to give final lodgment instead of remanding the case.
He approves the action of the Committee on Jurisprudence in the right of the
Tyler to all the privileges of membership aud in their report on the Representative
system.
He quotes the writer's report with approval~ especially bis r eminder of the early
days In old Toolamae, where they had refreshments at Lodge meetings, and his
tribute to Bro. BBLCBEB.
But " Tempus Fugit," and we most say good-bye to Maine.
M.'. .w.·. AUGUSTUS B. FARNIIAM was re-elected Grand Master j B.·. w... STRPBEN
BERRY was re·elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence: M.·. W.'. JoBIAB H. DRUHMO!llD, Portland.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Portland, May 4., 1897.
MANITOBA.
The Grand Lodge of Manitoba held a Special Communication in the town of
Regina, September l&, 1894., for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of St. Paul's
Church, and also in the village of Hartney, Jnoe 10th, 1896, for the laying of the
ooroer·stooe of St. Andrew's Charch,-tbe M.·. W.'. TaolfAB Twnn, Graad Mester,
and the B.·. W.'. WILLIA.Ii G&OBGB ScOTT beiag Grand Secretary. The ceremonies
were performed iu accordance with the ancient usages an~ customs of the Frater·
nlty.
The twentieth Annnal Communication was held in the city of Winnipeg, Juae 12,
1895. Tbirty•one chartered Lodges were represented of fifty-five on the roll. The

Grand Lodge of California.

1896.J

705

Lodges.have a membership of 2,334.. There were present six Past Grand Maaters
three Past Deputies, and five Past Grand Wardens. There were also In attendanc~
the Representatives of thirty-two sister Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Master commenced his addreBB lly saying: "Let us, with profound
gratitude, thank our Heavenly Father for his loving kindness tc us as a Fraternity,
and to ourselves as individuals, during the past year. Let as invoke His blessing on
all our undertakings, and His guidance In all our deliberations."
He gave the assembled brethren a hearty welcome to the twentieth Annual Commnoication, but before proceeding to the report of his official acts siMe their l~t
session, be paused fo pay the tribute of alfectiooate remembrance tc those beloved
brethren who had passed through the "dark beyond" since their last annual greeting. He reported thirteen names Inscribed npon their death roll, to be recorded on
memorial pages in the published proceedings. He also referred to the loss of sister
jurisdictions, and the uoasaal number summoned from their earthly labors.
The Grand Master's good intentions In regard to visitations of his coostitnent
Lodges failed him daring bis term. He reported t hat no decisions had been given
daring the year or snffioieot Importance to report to Grand Lodge.
He refused dispensations for poblic Installations, and deprecates the custom. He
gives the oondition as prospnous, and for the general good recommends the abolition of the affiliation fee. The G:and Master Indulges in the following pleasant
retrospeotive view. He says:Upon entering the thi.rd decade of our e.xistence as a Grand Lodge we oan look
back with pardooab!e pnd~ apon our past history. What a small beginning was onrs I
What numberless d1fficult1es were met and overcome! What memories crowd In
upon us, some pleasant, while the thought of those brethren who were wont to meet
with ns la the past, and who are now among the departed, brings to oor faces ir.
momentary shadow, yet their upright lives and bright example are Indeed a blessed
lnheritaoc!l· Brethren, we must press forward with our good work, not wearying
ill we.ll-do10g; let us one and ~ll, lo whatever capacity employed, strive to do onr
duty m the future ~ven more fa1~ully than. we have in. the past. Having done this,
the Supreme Architect of the Umverse will bestow apon as His approving smile
and oars .will be the privilege to hear the rewarding words, " Well done thou good
and faitbfol servant.
'
This Grand Lodge suffered t he loss by fire of nearly all of its elfects on the 10th
of November, 1894.
The M.'. W.'. CBARLllS N. BBLL was elected Grand Master; B.·. W.'. WILLiill
GEORGE ScoTT was r e·elected Grand Seoretary.
The Grand Lodge held a Special Communication for the pnrpose of laying with
Maaooic ceremonies the corner-stone of a building to he erected by the Masonic
Temple Association of Winnipeg, on the i6th of Aagast, 1896,-M.·. W.'. C.lliRLBB
NAPIER BELL, Grand.Master, B.'. W.-. WILLIAM GsORGE BBLL acting as Grand Secretary.
,
A large representation of the Craft, embracing the membership of more t han
ten Lodges, were present.
·
On the 26th of Angust, Grand Lodge BBBembled again for the purpode of laying
the corner-stone of A11 Saints' Charob, lo the town of Edmon too, District of Alberta.
The cereU1onies were elaborate and successfnlly carried oat ia Ample Form,
The Grand Lodge of Manitoba held its twenty-first .Anaual Communication lo the
oity of Winnipeg, Jane 10, 1896,-M.-. W.·. Clum.BS. NAP!BB BBLL, Grand Master,
R.". W.-. WILL!Alll GsoRGE SooTT, Grand Secretary. Forty·tbree of the fifty-fou r
chartered Lodges in the jurisdiction were represented. Of the permanent membere

10

706

Procee-dings of the

[Oct. 15,

there were present six Paet Grand Muters, three Put Deputies, four Put Grand
Wardens, twelve Put District Deputies and a large unmber of Put Muters.
Twenty-seven sister Grand Lodges were represented, B. •• W. •• FREDERICK Lli:SLIB
NBW111L1.N responding for Oalifornia.
The death roll for 1895 numbers thirteen brethren, whose names are inscribed
upon a mourning page In the journal or proceedings. A mourning page is also Inserted lu memory of the illoetrions dead of sister Grand Lodges.
Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form, with prayer by the acting Grand Ohaplaln.
.
An addrese of welcome was presented to Grand.Lodge by a deputation of Masters
of the Lodges located in the city of Winnipeg, which WBB responded to by the Grand
Master.
The Grand Muter then delivered hie Annual Address, reminding the brethren
that Grand Lodge wBB now open In its twenty.first Annunl Oommunlcation and ad·
vising all to offer grateful thanks to the Supreme Architect of the Universe for the
bleB&ings of the past, invoking his continued guidance and protection.
Be preceded the report of hie official acts by feeling mention of the brethren. ot
their own kindred and families who had paB&ed away with the year and left with
them the record of their useful lives. He also not.es the names and offers his tribute
of alfeotion for the illustrious brethren of sister jurisdictions who have obeyed the
same summons.
He reports the granting of thirty-four dispensations, one-half of which ~ere for
permiBl!ion "to wear regalia at divine service." Of this very prevalent deeue to be
clothed in shining raiment, the Grand Muter says:You will notice that, as usual, at least one·hal! of the dispen~atlons g~e..nted !'ere
for permission to attend divine service in regaha. Brethren, ID my opm1on, either
no dispene.ation should issue for this purpose, or all Lodges should r_egula~ly. ~y con·
stitutional enactment, be permitted, nnd:er simple regolit.tione, t~ enJOY this privilege,
for it hBB become a recognized custom m this Grand Juried1ct1on for. Lodges to at·
tend divine service in celebration of the festival of St. John the Baptis*, or at some
other date. A proposed amendment to the qo~tltution in respect to this matter has
been made for consideration at this Commun1cation.
Under decisions we note the following:-

Glactetone Lodge, No. 11, having asked for my decision BB to whether ~t is necessary that seven Muter Masone should be present to open a Muter Muon a Lodge, I
gave the following:.
·I f
Our Constitution requires that seven Master Muons must Blgn
a pebt on or a
dispensation to hold a Lodge U. D., the evident intent being that no Iese number
must be present.
.
Our businese in this jurisdiction le CO';lducted in ~he ¥· M.. de_gr~e, and a very
slight study of either of the rituals authorized for use ID this Jur1sd1ct1on reveals the
fact that unless seven Muter Masone are present the work cannot properly be performed.
. .
I therefore rule that it le the ln'6n* of the Constitution
and r1·t uala th at seve n
Master Muons be present to open a Lodge.
Full reporMI are published of the condition of the Lodge~ in eight of th_e .ten Dis·
tricte into whiob the jurisdiction is divided and placed under the eoperv1s1on of a
District Deputy Grand Master.
From the report of the Grand Secretary we learn that the number of affiliated
Master Masons December 27, 1895, was 2,413. We know that as a general rule
Grand Secrt.'tarlee like to say a good word for their helpers in oonetitoent bodies ;
what, then, moat be the official delinquencies of the Manitoba scribes to cause ~ra~d
Secretary 8ooTT In the anguish of hie heart to write the following, and publish 1t,
too:-

Grand Lodge of California.

1896.J

707

It is evident ihat the percentage of correct returns is no greater than it has been
in put years, nor is there any prospect of improvement in thfe direction while the
annual changes In the office of 8ecretary takes place. There are six Lodges, Nos.
1, 7, 13, 26, 36,
where the Secretaries are continued in office from year to year,
and in two of these there are only slight grounds for complaint. There are other
capable Secretaries, bnt in a nnmber of cases the Incumbents are utterly incompetent
to discharge the duties ot the offices to which they have been elected.
We find the following in the annual report of the Board of General Purposes:-

'°•

,

Daring the put year the Muonic Temple Association of Winnipeg completed the
erection of a most suitable building to serve BB a home for Masone and the brethren
of this jurisdiction. The building was erected under the most careful management
of the Directors of the Association, aod the brethren of this jurisdiction are under a
~reat debt of gratitude to them for the zeal and energy which they have shown in
its construction.
The Committee on Grand Muter'e Addreee concurred in hie opinion "that at
least seven Master Muons must be present to open a Master Muon's Lodge," and
the Grand Lodge adopted the report.
There was no Report on Correspondence.
We note with much pleasure the election of oar Right Worehlplol Representative,
Bro. FBEDKRICK LKBLIE NRWXAN, BB Senior Grand Warden for the ensuing year.
The M. ·. W. ". COllBE'r Loco was elected Grand Master, B.·. W.·. WILLIAJI
GsoRGE Sco'.l'l' WBB re-elected Grand Secretary.
MARYLAND.

The Grand Lodge held a Semi-Annual Communication May 14, 1895,-M. •. W. •,
THOMAS J. SHBYOOK, Grand Master; R. •. W. ". JACOB H . MBDAIRY, Grand Secretary. Fifteen Past Grand Officers were present, with the representatives of
lllnety-four chartered Lodges.
In lieu of a written addrese the Grand Master verbally reported the condition
of the jurisdiction.
He anuouuced the death of the following eminent brethren, and on behalf of
the Fraternity of Maryland paid an earnest tribute to the Masonic record of
each:Bro. HUGH B. JONES, Put Grand Warden, Grand Lodge of Maryland.
" RroHARD VAUX, Past Grand Master, Grand L odge of Pennsylvania.
" STEPHEN FOWLER CHADWICK, Paet Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Oregon.
" JOHN FRIZZELL, Paet Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Tennessee.
A brilliant Masonic quartette.
Paet Grand Master J. J. CoucH of the Grand Lodge of New York was intro·
duoed and received with the Grand Honore.
Put Grand Muter JOHN M. CARTER submitted the following testimonial in
honor of the illustrious Pennsylvania Mason, R. ·• W. ·• RIOHABD VAUX, which
was unanimously adopted :The Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of Maryland proffers to the Grand Lodge
F. & A. M. of Pennsylvania fraternal condolence upon the demise of R. •. W. ·.
Put Grand Master RIOHARD VAUX.
In ripe learning, long and faithful service, broad and catholic views, amiable
and loving regard for bis fellows, and in all that goes to make ur, the good man and
Mason, our brother was fairly entitled to rank as the • first Mason of the
ublic."
he record of his long and well spent life constitutes an object lesaon worthy
of ltbe admiration and emulation of the Craft wheresoever dispersed.
'It is ordered that a copy of this minute be transmitted*<> the Ri~ht Worshipful Grand Master of Pennsylvania, and that a page be inscribed in the proceedings
of this Corumunica.tion in affectionate remembrance of our deoea..sed brother.

708

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

At the Annual Communicati on held November 20, 1894, Bro. HKNBY BRUNOH
offered the following resolution : Reaolml, That the laying of comer.stones , unveiling of atatues, burial of the
dead1 etc., is true Masonic work, and should be performed while the Lodge is open in
the tnird degree.
The resolution was referred to a committee consisting of Bros. EDWARD T.
SoHULTZ, Chairman of Correspondence, GRAHAH DUKBHART, Grand Lecturer,
and JAOOB H. MIIDAIBY, Grand Secretary,
The Grand Lodge of Maryland held its one hundred and ninth Annual Com.
munication in the city of Baltimore November 3, 1895,-M. •, W. •. THOHAS J.
SHBYOOK, Grand Master; R.·. w.·. JAOOB H. MKDAIBY, Grand Secretary.
Sixteen Past Grand Officers were present, and ninety.four Lodges were represented.
The representativ es of thirty-one sister jurisdictions were in attendance, and we
·
note Bro. WH. E. STEUART as ready to talk for California.
'. Deputy Grand
W.
'.
R.
the
by
Form
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample
Master, when the Grand Master, escorted by the Grand Pursuivant and Grand
Director. of Ceremonies, entered, was proclaimed by the Grand Marshal, the Grand
Honors were give:i, and the Grand Master, a.ccepting the gavel tendered him by
the Deputy Grand Master, assumed hie seat in the East.
The Grand Master addressed the Grand Lodl<'e for the tenth coneecuti~e term
since his first election as Grand Master, a decade of years. He indulged iu a most
interesting retrospective view of the history of the Grand Lodge, with words oJ
sorrow for the many good bretbren who went out with them and never returned.
He encourages them with the thought that although they have passed through
dangers and difficulties, yet they have emerged therefrom better and stronger,
more vigorous and hopeful for the future of Masonry witbin their jurisdiction.
His official acts were reported. In August, 1894, he placed the comer.atone of
Baltimore City College with full ceremonies.
One hundred. dollars was appropriated for the ·renewal of the monument of
Past Grand Master Dr. JOHN CRAWl'OBD, which was erected in the Presbyterian
lfl'8veyard in the year 1813.
M. •, W,•. THO.HAS J. SHBYOOK was re-elected Grand Master.
The way they do it in Maryland :The M. '. W. '. Grand Master aBBembled the Grand Officers in his office and in.
formed them he was about to exercise hie pren>gative of makinl<' a Mason at sight.
The Grand Secretary read a ~tition from HUGH K. W ALKBR, Minister of the
Gospel, aged 33 years, recommended by the Grand Master.
The Grand Master and Grand Officers repaired to Fidelity Lodge, No. 136,
which was in 9ession.
The M. '. W. ·. Grand Master assumed the Chair, and the Grand Officers the
other stations, when Bro. W ALKBB was introduced and initiated, and afterwards
paseed to the degree of Fellow Craft and raised to the sublime degree of Master
Mason in regular order.
The Grand Master and Grand Officers retired, and the W. '. Master and officers
of Fidelity Lodge resumed their stations.
Bro. W At.KER'S petition for membership was presented to the Lodge, upon
which a ballot was bad and he declared elected.
Bro. EDWARD T. SoHULl'Z again presents the Report on Correspondence, in
which he reviews the doings of fifty-seven Masonic Grand Lodges, and several of
them for two years. He says in his opening 1 -

1896.]

Grand Lodge of California.

709

In !1-COOrdance "!'ith the custom whioh has prevailed for som
paat,~yo~r
Committee on Fo~1g!1 C~rreepondence ~resented their ann al e y~ars
re~ at the Semi.
Annual Commun1oat1on in May last. But as it h be
print the
to
etermined
en
j.
ann
the
of
those
with
aemi-annual proceedinirs
0
~e concurrence of th~ Most Worshipful Grand ~:! :d:~':'e, we have, with
a reView. of .such proceedmgs as have come to hand since the cI oee ofoutrh ereMport
ay Com.
mun1cat1on.

d

His notice of California is of the administratio n of Grand Master 0
. , B.HE, from
whose addresa Bro. SoHULTZ quotes liberally in regard to h"1e opinions
on more
.
· bTt · Lod
.
the abolition of an a ffil'Iati'on f ee, and the right
soc1a 1 1 Y IDTh dge meetings,
of
. . .
. t t•
B
f
·
th
meet
not
does
case
latter
the
ID
ec1s1on
e
10n.
rue
1ns
ro. SoHULTZ,
as it did not that of the Committee on Jurisprudenee to wehvie~so
om it was referred
s
B
. •
· ·
ro. OllULTZ quotes our action on the Wisconsin
to
Mai!onic relief, and remarks that so far as he can remembepropoe1~onh referrmg
Grand
r ours Is t e only
.
Lod th t h adopted the Wisconsin
.
.
notes
He
proposition.
ge a as
us as saymg m a
q
former report:.
tat'
Bro. WH. E , SJ'BUABT is the recorded Re
of
Macy:land near t~e Grand Lodge of Califon!i~~~t a IVB of :;e Grand Lodge
has not been
a resident of California for some veara, we f th es.intero,reetaBUABT
of
brethren
our
of
ear
•
Maryland are neglected.
And he adds in reply:-

.
Bro. STEUART i.s a regular attendant at our Gr d Lod
and is,
the~fore, perhaps 1n a better position to represent hieaG d ~meetmgs,
ours than
near
ge
ran
he is to represent us near his Grand Lodge.
B
All of which comes from our blundering stateme
oodnt, ro. SoHULTz. Bro.
STllUART is our representativ e near Maryland d
asthebest.
an asg
J
M• W · TH
•
O.HAB • SHBYOOK was re-elected Grand Master • ,
.• ,.
'R. · W. ·JACOB
H. MEDAIBY was re-elected Grand Secretary
EDWABD T . SoHULTZ, Baltimore,
Chairman of Corre11pondence' R. ·. w.
••
MASSACHUBETTS.
The Grand Lodge of Massachusett s held a Special Communicati .
on I~ the town
. th
of Lee, ~une 6, 1895, for the purpose of participati
Centenmal Celebration of .E'llening Star Lodge -M. ~ m, e celebration of the
B. HOLHllS,
Grand Master, R. ·• W. '. Sxuso D. NICKJllBSO; Gr~~d ~· •
· ecreGray,
in attendance• After openmg
There were fifteen Lodges
nd Lodge
.
f
.
a pro. l"
oees1on was ormed with one thousand breth
to the
proceeded
h::::~h
w:~
exe=~n
Pongregation al Ch~h, where the literary
Upon the conclus1on of the exercises at the church th r
' e inee were again formed
and marched to an immense tent where tabl
::~~n~.bountifully aup:
:
:
:
of
And
persons.'
plied for fifteen hundred

:WIN

00

1

a:iu= ~895,

A Special Communicati on was also held in the city f Boeto
the purpose of participating in the Centennial Celebra~on of
.

ge.

for

.
, A Quarterly Communicat ion was held in Boston, June 12 1895
, at which
•
t f
mnety-four Lodges were represented T
were
members
permanent
our
wen Y·
,
B
present the M , W:. E
Grand Master, presiding;
SBRE.'i~ .D N1ox1:'s~N beiB~Dl'GORD dHSOLJIO!S,
R. ·•
ecretary
ng ran
·
G
·
rand Lodge being opened in Amp! F
ed frorm,Corepo~ ~ere had from Committee
on Grand Master's Annual Addre
om mm1ss1oners:of Trials.
ss, an

w.'..

710

Pr0ceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

1896.]

Grand Lodge of O<ilifornia.

711

The committee having under consideration the proposed amendments to the
Constitution, also reported at length.
The following interesting communication was received from Bro. JORN H. Corr
LAMORE, "whose fame hath spread both far and wide for deeds of charity:"-

The Grand Lodge held a Special Communication in the city of Boston, August
27th, for the purpose of reviewing the Knights Templar para.de and escort to the
Grand Encampment at its twenty-sixth Triennial Conclave.

Edwin B. Holm.ea, G-rand Maater.

The Grand Lodge held its third Quarterly, September 11th, Grand Master
One hundred and twenty-two Lodges were represented.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The Grand Master gave an account of the disastrous fire of the 7th, by which
their home had been nearly destroyed. He desired to place on record the many
expressions of sympathy he had received, accompanied with a tender of shelter
from the Odd Fellows' Hall AllllOciation, whose kind offer was accepted and to
'
whom he desired to return thanks for speedy and thougbtfnl kindness.
Committee on Constitutional Amendments reported progress. A committee was
appointed to apply to the General Court for authority to bold real estate, not exceeding in value two millions of dollars, and personal estate not exceeding two
hundred thousand dollars.

DEAR SIB AND M. •. W. •. BnOTBEn-Inclosed please find check for five thousand
dollars, the first contribution toward a oharity fund which I propose to create, to
be placed in charge of the Trustees of the Ma.sonic Education and Charity Trust,
with the details of which you are already conversant.
Fraternally,
JOHN H. COLLAMORE.
The business of the sess~on being concluded, a hymn was sung and Grand Lodge
·:
closed.
A Special Communication was held in Framingham, June 13, for the purpose
of participating in the Centennial Celebration of Miitdlese:c Lodge, of which a full
report is given. The historical address is a paper of forty pages of much merit
and wit. Some of the characters described in the sketch of the Lodge history in
Revolutionary days .is both striking and amusing, and lead one to the conclusion
that "times ain't now as they used to be." For instance, the historian relates the
following anecdote in regard to the Teneral of bis great grandfather, the Selectman,
as characteristic of the customs and temper of the day :It bad been the estahlisbed rule in all families to provide liquors for the mourners, and, in the families of men in publi~ station, fo~ all who sh?ul~ attend the
services at the house of the deceased. Being an abstamer from pnnc1ple, _be gave
directions before his death, that no intoxicating liquors should. be fu~mshed to
relations or friends at bis funeral. Capt. JoE Wmon (the town wit and Joker, who
was on good terms with everybody), made it a rule to.be present on all such occa.
sions, and was always ready to do the honors. at the Bldebo~. He ~ad not heai;d
of the prohibition, and was taken by surpnse. After wa1tmg patiently, and m
vain for the usual invitation, be remarked, in his caustic way, as he slowlv
mou~ted bis old horse, "Queer funeral; no toddy! no tears ! " .
In describing the anti.Masonic excitement, and its effect upon the Lodge, the
historian says : "To Middlue:c Lodge belongs the credit of being one of the very
few Lodges that stood their ground, and held their meetings through the whole of
the reign of terror."
After the conclusion of the exercises, the quartette sang "Let Us Meet Upon
the Level." The benediction was pronounoed, and the brethren parted to reassem.
bleat the Town Hall, later, and enjoy a bounteous dinner, with the usual accompaniments of toasts and speeches.
At nine o'clock Grand Lodge returned from whence it came, and closed.

Again, on the 17th of June, Grand Lodge convened to assist in celebrating the
Centennial of King Solomtm'a Lodge of Charlestown, which erected the first mon'
ument on Bunker Hill.
Grand Lodge opened in the Temple in Boston, and proceeded under the escort
of De Mol,ay Commandery to City Square in Charlestown, where 11 procession was
formed with sixty Lodges in line, and 11 most elaborate celebration observed. Addresses were made by the Master of King Solomun'a Lodge, the Grand Master, and
Governor GBU.ENHALGE, and cloeed with a benediction by the Grand Chaplain,
Rev. EDWARD A, HORTON.

HOLMES presiding.

A Special Communication was held in Boston, October 16th, the Deputy Grand
Master, R . '. W. ·. S. LoTHROP THORNDIKE, presiding, One hundred and eighteen
Lodges were represented. Twenty.11even permanent members were present.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Due Eorm, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
A report was received and considered, referring to the adjustment of the loss
with the insurance companies, caused by the fire in Masonic Temple.
A rei:iort ~~s read and submitted b! t~e Deputy Grand Master concerning the
future d1spos1t1on of the property, which being concluded, Grand Lodge closed,
A Special Communication was held in the town of Tisbury, October 25th for
the purpose of dedicating the new apartments of Ma.irtha'a Vineyard Lodge' the
'
Grand Master presiding.
the
for
Boston,
of
city
District,
Dorchester
the
And on the 30th November, in
purpose of placing the comer-stone of the Virginia Street Universalist Society in
that district.
~
The Grand Master, upon the conclusion of the ceremonies, delivered an Addr&IS.
The assembly sang the hymn, "Nearer, My God, t o Thee," and the Grand Lodge
returned to the place of opening, where i'' was closed in Ample Form.
The la.st Quarterly of this Grand Lodge for the year 1895 was held at Masonic
Te~p~e, in Boston, December llth,-M. •• W. •• EDWIN B. HoLHES, Grand Master,
pres1dmg, R. ·. W. ', SERENO D. NIOICERSON bein!I' Grand Secretary. Forty permanent members were in attendance, including six Pa.st Grand Masters. One hundred and sixty-two Lodge~ were represented.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
Chaplain.
Before proceeding to report his official actions to Grand Lodge, the Grand Master gave expression to their acknowledgmen~ of the care and protection of the
Supreme Power in their past nndertakinga, and thllir hopes in His future guidance.
He said the past year had been one of great Ma.sonic aetivity. The twenty-sixth

Proceedings of the

712

.

.

[Oct. 15,

.

Triennial of the Grand Encampment had increased their labors ae it had multiplied their joys. He spoke of the fire in the Temple, and the many inconveniences which it had caused, and alluded affectionately and with great regret to the
present ae probably a farewell meeting in a place made sacred to them by 111Jsociation and so many recollections of the past.
In the midst of the activity of the elements, the spirit of charity has not lagged
behind. Bro. JOHN H. COLLAMORK had given the Grand Lo<h<"e fifteen thousand
dollars to establish the JOHN H. COLLAMORE Fund, and the Lodge of St. Anth·ew
bad given one thousand to establish the Lodge of St. Andrew's Charity Fund. And
the G,·and Master trusts their example may be an incentive to others to do likewise. So mote it be.
Under the head of Necrology, the Grand Master made affectionate mention of
those b~ethren who had passed to rest. He made many visitations, and from his
reports the Massachusetts Free and Accepted Mason is a source of pride to the
Grand Master, and an honor to the Grand Lodge.
The District Deputies report the Lodges as doing good work, and the Fraternity
in a prosperous condition. The insurance on their property destroyed and injured
by the late fire has been adjusted and allowed at $110,179. 70.
The receipts for the last year were 836,946.06. The expenditures, same period,
836,426.43.

Bro. EDWIN BRADFORD HOLMES was re-elected Grand Master, and Bro. Sll:Rll:NO
D. NICKERSON was re.elected Grand Secretary.
The Committee on Necrology reported tributes of respect in memory of Past
Grand Warden HKNRY G. Woon and District Deputy Grand Master CHAUNCEY S.
RIOHABDs, which were adopted and ordered placed on record.

A Stated Communication was held December 27th, for the purpose of installing
the Grand Officers and celebrating the Feast of St. John the Evangelist,-tbe
Deputy Grand Master, R. ·. W. •• S. LOTHROP THORNDIKE, presiding. Twenty-three
permanent members were present, with a large number of Masters and Wardens
of Lodges.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Dae Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Mllllter then installed the other officers-elect, and announced his
appointment~ of District Deputies for the thirty districts and other appointed
Grand Officers, who were installed by the Deputy Grand Master.
At five minutes after six o'clock, P. M., the brethren were called from labor to
refreshment, and proceeded without form to the rooms of the Exchange Club, on
the corner of Milk and Batterymarch streets, where the Feast of St. John the
Evangelist was celebrated in Due and Ancient Form, after the manner of Masons.
At twenty minutes'.after ten o'clock, P. M., the brethren were called from
refreshment to labor again, and the Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form.
M. •• W. •• EDWIN B. HOLMES, Grand Master; R. ', W. ',SERENO D. NIOKERSON.
Grand Secretary.
MICHIGAN.
The Grand Lodge of Michigan held its fifty-second Annual Communication In the
oity of Saginaw, January 28, 1895,-M.·. W.·. EDWIN L. BOWRING, Grand MRster;
R.'.
JEl!'l!'EBllON s .•OONOVEB, Grand Secretary. Three hundred and seveniy·
three or the three hundred and eighty-one active Lodges in the jnrisdict.ion were
represented. Seventeen Past Grand Masters and thirty Representatives of sister

w.·.

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Ual,ifornia;

713

Grand Lodges were present, including Past Grand Master Jon W. MoGBATH, or
Detroit, representative of the Grand Lodge of California.
The number of affiliated Master Masons is 37 ,706.
The death roll for 1895 contained the names of Coar hundred and ninety.four
Master Masons.
A fine JJOrtrait or Grand Master EDWIN L. BoWRIMG appears OD opening page.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, the Grand Chaplain leading the
devotions.
The Grand Master opened his Address with an acknowledgment of divine protection and with thankfulness that so few of their brethren had been summoned from
their earthly duties since the last Annnal Communication. He alluded with fraternal
regard to those who had passed to rest, as well In sister jurisdictions as In their own,
Uastingly leaving them in the bands of the Grand Master above who bas done all
things well.
Among his decisions the Grand Master reports that he had rnled the following as
di!qaaliflcations for the degrees of Masonry:Snob paralysis or the limbs as to require the assistance of another in walking.
A withered leg, necessitating the use of a cane.
A loss of the thnmh of the right hand.
One who has lost the third and fourth fingers, or a portion of the right hand.
One with a cork leg and foot.
One with orippled foot, compeJl!ng him to walk on side or foot.
Lodges should not, by incorporating, subject themselves to the jnrisdlction of the
oivil courts; to incorporate is to make an innovation in the body of Masonry.
Residence and not citizenship confers jurisdiction.
A visitor cannot he Rdmitted by an avonc.bmeat for the higher degrees. The examination most be confined to the first three degrees.
The Grand Master condemns the practice of solicitation of candidates. He bad
issned dispensations for the formation of two new Lodges.
The Grand Master reports the issuance or a special dispensation to FW.elUy
Lodge, No. 32, to confer the degrees npon a Mr. RusRELL, waiving all fees and the
usual requirements.
The ocoaslon for this burst of liberality on the part or the Grand Master was the
admission of Mr. RussELL to the Lodge room by the Tyler, who stated tbal he bad
been vouched for. The meeting was a large one, the members of six neighboring
Lodges being In attendance to assist in the work of the third degree. As the work
prooeeded Mr. RUSSELL was notioed, questioned, and said hs thought the meeting
was open to the public. It is hardly necessary to add that difficnlties arose among
the workmen abont that lime. Mr. RUSSELL was escorted without the public meeting and the Grand Master concludes the incident by reporting:On receiving information in an indirect way of what bad oocarred I went to
Hillsdale for the purpose of holding an investigation, but on my arrival there I fonnd
all the parties connected with the al'fair, inch1ding Mr. RUSSELL, ont of town. On
my return home I sent the dispensation referred to, and ordered a thorough investigation to he held. The investigation hA.S been held, and I hRve received the report
of the committee, and from their report I believe that it was an honest mistake of
the parties who vonched for him.
Satisfactory, Grand Master BOWRING, bnt don't let it occur agaiu. Corner·stones
were laid of the Berrien Ooanty Court House at St. J osepb, the First Baptist Church
at Pentwater, and the First Presbyterian Church at St. Louis.
The Grand Master recommended joining in the observance of the Centennial
Anniversary of the death of Bro. GEORGE W ABHINGTON, as proposed by the Grand
Lodge of Colorado. He also recommended that as a provision for the snpport of
the Masonic Home a By·Law be enacted to read:-

714

Procee<lings of the

[Oct. 15,

And be it further provided, that each Lodge pay over to the G~and Secreta~y
annually one dollar for each degree conferred, the same to be set aside for Masomc
Home purposes.
Nine special Communications were held during the year for the placing of corner·
stones, dedication of Masonic Halls and for paying the last sad tribute of Fraternal
regard to Past Grand Master MrcHAEL BHOElllAKEB, in the city of Jackson, Novem·
ber 10, 1895.
Bro. CoNOVBR's report is done up In a dress so new and bright. that the only way
to describe it and do jnstice to the Grand Secretary is to quote a measure or two
"as it is writ." Two inches of the report under the head of " Annual Returns:We worked and got 'em straightened up and sorted out the pile,
An' then I fairly hngged myself an' smiled a great big smile,
For them forty Secretaries had done their work so well,
There was really only three or four that I longed to send to - - well,
That ought to go·to 'ritin school an' Improve their bands a bit,
Till you wouldn't think, to see their work, 'twas by a lawyer 'rit,
But come to take 'em all in all, I challenge any State,
To show a lot of Secretaries nearer up to date.
The receipts of Grand Lodge for the year were $18,901.60. Contrlbntlons from
Lodges for Masonic Home, $2,895.58. Disbursements for nse of Grand Lodge,
$6,581.85.
The Grand Lectnrer made a very favorable report of the condition of the work
in the jurisdiction.
The question of leading interest before Grand Lodge was the providing revenue
for the maintenance and support of the Masonic Home. Several propositions were
advanced, but no one seemed to impress itself upon the great majority as meeting
all the reqnirements. No donbt " the plan" will present itself when neceseity demands it, The receipts of the Hom9 for the year were $5,744.86; the disbursements,
$5,868.21. The receipts come from Lodges, Chapters, Commanderies, the Mystic
Shrine and the Order of the Eastern Star, of which the subordinate Lodges contrlb·
nted fifty-three per cent. The inmate• consist of eighteen men, seven women, two
boys and one girl. The property is insured for $31,500.
Grand· Lodge resolved that the Grand Lodge of New Zealand be and is hereby
recognized as a sovereign Grand Lodge, and is fraternally welcomed into the ever
lengthenina chain of Grand Lodges, and that an exchange of representatives be effected between onr Grand Lodge and that of New Zealand.
A resolution to accept the transfer of the M'll!onic Home to the Grand Lodge
was, after 11 lengthy discussion, defeated by a vote of Lodges-167 ayes, 191 noes.
Bro. HUGH McCURDY is Chairman of a Special Committee on :Masonic History,
and also the Standing Committee on Jurisprudence.
Grand Lodge voted to appoint a commiltee to serve with similar committees
from other Grand Lodges in making preparations to celebrate the Washington Oen·
tennial in response to the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
The Committee on Obituaries made an eloqnent report.
The expenses of the Grand Lodge for t!le year closing with this session have
been $12,950.57.
A Past Grand Master's jewel was voted M.·. W." Bro. EDWIN L. BoWllJNG.
The Report on Correspondencl' is presented by the poetical Grand Secretary,
Bro. CONOVER, whose strong desire seems to have been to cnt it short. His notice of
California is for the administration of Grand Master HENRY SAYRE ORME, whose
Address he quotes with approval. He notes the death of Past Grand Masters STE·
VENSON and GRrrMAN, the ceremonies of dedication at Honolulu and the placing of
corner-stones for churches, temples and school bonses.

1896.J

Grand Lodge of OaJ,ifornw.

715

Bro. CONOVER judges from the report of the Grand Lecturer that Masonry is
flourishing in California, and that onr Boards of Relief are doing good work, mentions the Address of the Grand Orator, Worshipful N1LE11 SURLS, and thinks the
Grand Lodge did a gracefnl thing in presenting onr Past Grand Master's widow
with amounts appropriated for his nse.
We note a few words under New Jersey that strike us as a chivalrous declaration of Bro. CoNOVBR. Referring to the Eastern Star Order, a society we know noth·
ing abont, except as we bear their charitable deeds mentioned, and it riles ns to hear
a great big man speak slightingly of them and predict the rnin of Freemasonry ff
the Stars are not kept at a distance. Bro, CONOVER speaks like a Maslln and a gentleman when, in response to Bro. HA.YNES, of New Jersey, be says:No, Bro. HAYNES, I do not consider the Order as strictly a Masonic Body any
more than you probably do the Shrine, bat it Is so closely connected therewith,
through the relationship of its members, that I cannot help thinking it entirely
proper that they be allowed to nee onr Lodge-rooms for their meetings.

M.-. W. '. JOHN J. CARTON was elected Grand Master; B.·. W." JEFFERSON S.
CONOVER was re·elected Grand Secretary. Correspondent, R.'. W.-. JEFFERSON S.
CONOVER, Coldwater.
MINNESOTA.
The Grand Lodge of Minnesota held its forty.third Annual Communication in the
city of St. Panl, January 15, 1896,-M.·. W.·. CALVIN L. BnowN, Grand Master;
R.·. W.-. TBClllAB MoNTGOMERY, Grand Secretary. Minnesota has two hundred
Lodges enrolled, with a membership of 15,065 Master Masons. The names of one
bnndred and sixty-six brethren are inscribed ou the death roll of the year. One
hundred and elghty·nine of the two hnndred Lodges were represented. Twenty·
three permanent members were in attendance, consisting of nine Past Grand Masters,
three Past Grand Deputies and eleven Past Grand Wardens. Thirty·five sister jnris·
dictions were represented. California's representative, M.-. W.'. GEO. W. PnsscoTT,
Grand Master in 1864-5, was not present. W.-. SAMUEL BOND HINCKLEY, of Riverside,
represents the Grand Lodge of Minnesota near the Grand Lodge of California.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
In his Address to Grand Lodge, the Grand Master reported the year as uneventful.
No panics or great calamities had overtaken them-peace and tranquillity bad been
· their portion. The farmer had been rewarded with abundant crops, and labor had
fonnd employment, and for these blessings he retnrned thanks to the Saoreme Ruler
and invoked His blessings upon their present Communication. He s~id although
they had been spared the epidemic, yet the grim messenger had been with them,
reminding them by repeated visitations of the nnoertainty of human life and ihe
certainty that in "doe time" all mnst obey the summons and pa88 to the resting
place appointed for all the living,
Three Lodges were constituted and dispenB11tions lssned for the formation of three
new Lodges daring the year.
The Grand Lodge divides the two hundred r,odges into thirty·foar districts, each
being under the supervision of a District Depnty, who 11re commissioned by the
Grand Master for his term or nntil otherwise ordered.
The receipts for the year by Grand Treasurer, with amount on hand at date of
last report ($4,690.35) were $12,864.35; the disbursements, same period, were
'9,699.03. Cash on hand to balance, t3, 165.32.
The Grand Treasurer reports, also, on band in cash and bonds in the Widows'
and Orphans' Fond, $17,679.10.

716

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

The Grand Orator, Rev. Bro. Roe111RT FOBBES, delivered an address of force and
power on the Spirit or Masonry.
The Committee on Fraternal Greetings submitted the following, which was
adopted by Grand Lodge :1b tll8 M. •• W. •• the United <Jrand Lodge .o f England:. The M.·. _W.·. Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
Minnesota, in Annual C.:ommnnication assembled, and representing over fifteen
th~n•an.d membe_rs of our common Fraternity, extends fraternal greeting to the
M. : W. • tbe Um~e~ Gran~ Lodge of England, and the assurance of their earnest
desire that th_e spmt or n01$y and fraternity which now prevails between them and
the great nations of which they are citizens may never be severed, and the confi.
deuce tha_t all difficulties of whatever nature arising between the two nations will be
adjuste~ m such man!'er as shall comport with the dignity and honor of both nations
and be in harmony with that spirit or humanity which charaoterlzes the civilization
of the world to·day.
The Grand Lodge adopted the following :-

&rolf!ed~ '!'hat this Grand J,odire views with disapprobation the growing evil of
giving pobbc1ty to the transaot1ons of Masonic Bodies and tbe business of the
Fratermty through . the medium of the pnblio press ' &nd condemns the same as
absolutely nnmasomc.
We think there should be provision made for furnishing every affiliated Mason
with a copy of his Grand Lodge proceedings, that would satisfy the craving for
Masonic intelligence and prove the greatest educator of the Fraternity.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by Bro. lllVING Tonn, who reviews
the doings of fifty.five Grand Lodges in an interesting report of le11s than one bun·
dred ~ages. We knew him for a condenRer or distinction, but his astringent qualities
surprise us. Of course it's good, and that's why he shouldn't shrink it so.
Under California, Bro. Tonn reviews the administration of Grand Master ORHE.
He notes the death of our two Past Grand Masters, the oldest and youngest. He
also notes the illness of our Past Grand Master CuB'l'IS, who, we are glad to inform
Bro. Tonn, is himself again. He gives attention to the acts of our Boards of Relief
adding that every call was responded to promptly; notwithstanding the existin;
financial depreasion.
The Urand Ora tor's A.ddreas, by B~o. NILES SBARLS, is pronounced very readable.
Says we concurred in the action of Wisconsin in the matter of diBBeminating relief
and considered favorably, bnt did not adopt, the Mississippi rules. A.II of which i~
correct.
.Under Illinois, Bro. Tonn writes these few lines of practical Masonic sense:A. sngges~ion of the G!and Master to modify their law of perpetual jurisdiction,
w~en the reJe.cted mater1~l h~ lef~ the ~tate, di.d no~ meet the approval of thd Oom·

m1ttee on Jnr1!'prudeocc, tt b_e1ng, in their opimoo, ID the nature of an inuovatlon,
therefore nmv1se and not de.s1r!lble. A.s fully two· thirds of the Grand Lodges in this
c_ountry do not reoog_nize this rntermina~le ownership, It is seemingly a question of
time when the minority will have to fall mto line.
Under Maine, Bro. TODD quotes a decision of Grand Master BURBANX, to the eft'e ct

t~at a Lodg~ has no right to pay out of its treasury the expenses of its annual recep·

t10us, the prmcipal feature of which is dancing, etc. He says :-

We demur to the decislo~. Tber~ is nothing which bas a tendency to build
op a Lodge more th.an occas10nal social reunion, even if there is a little dancing
and when the condition of the treasury will permit the expense is a Jigitimate charg~
op_on the commo~ fund . Like Bro. Hrmmcs, of Montana, we never dance; therefore
this may be considered an unbiased opinion.
We concur, Bro. Tonn. Please give us room on that platform.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of OaUforni.a.

M.·. W.•. JAHES F. LAWLESS was elected Grand Master; B.·.
GOllBRY was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Ohairman of Correspondence : Bro. IRvnm Tonn, Hastings.

717

w.·. TBOHA.B MONT·

MISSISSIPPI.
The Grand Lodge of MissiBBlppl held its seventy-eighth A.annal Oommuolca\ion
JAHBS T. HARRISON, Grand
in Ule oity of Beloxi, February 20, 1896,-M.·.
)laster, B. ·• W. ·• J. L. PowBB, Grand Secretary. Two hundred and thirty-six of
the two hundred and sixty·nine Lodges in the jurisdiction were represented. There
were In attendance twelve Past Grand Masters and the representatives of t wentyfour sister Grand Jnrisdic$ions, among whom we note the W.·. GBOBGE C. PHILLIPS,
of I,nington Lodge, No. 24., r esponds for California.
The names of brethren inscribed npon the death roll for 1895 number one hundred

w.·.

and eighty-one.
A portrait of Grand Master HARBISON appears on the opening page of the
journal.
The Grand Lodge of Mississippi bears upon Its roll the names of 8,891 affiliated
:Master Masons.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap·
Iain.
The Grand Master gave the assembled brethren fraternal greeting, and after an
expression of praise and thanksgiving to Him who governs all for the care and protection or the past year, be announced the loss by death of Past Grand Officers, well
known brethren, remembered for their steady attachment to the principles and
teachings of Freemasonry.
The Grand Master reported his official acts in t he granting of dispensations, a11
well as the applications denied by him. Referring to d1.>clsions, he said:Tile questions propounded had been passed upon by the Law Committee in
previous decisions. I do not deem it best to oonsnme your valuable time by r eciting
Uiem. Suffice it to say, that recognizing the purpose of its creation and having an
abiding confidence in the knowledge and wisdom of its members, l have not attempted
to interfere with Its functions, bot have invariably submitted all new and complex
questions to them, and have abided by the results of their decision.
The very eminent Committee on Law and Jorisprndence, referred to by the Grand
Master, is composed of Bro. Past Grand Master FREDBRIC SPEBD, Chairman, with Pllllt
Grand Masters PAXTON and HARBISON, associates.
In reporting certain amendments to the By-Laws at the present seBBion, Bro •
SPBRD ollered the following (additional), which was unanimously adopted as an
amendment to the " Roles and Regulations:"INDtSPBm.lBLB QU.illPIOA'l'IONS OP A 0ANDIDATE.
The indispensable qnaliftcatlons of a candidatd for initiation into Masonry are :
He must be free born, at least twenty·one years of age, of good report, coming well
reoommended, of sound mind and memory, physically and mentally capable of earning a livelihood, able to r ead and write, must believe In the existence of God and
the soul's immortality, most be oapable of receiving and imparting the Ritual of
Masonry; not having lost a foot, hand or the thumb or any fl:nger of the right h!'nd,
or born deprived or either the senses of bearing, seeing or feehng; must have resided
one full year io the jorisdlc\ion of the Lodge to which he petitions; must sigu t he
petition with his own baud ; most be recom1_11ended by two members _of the Lodge
who vonch for his moral oharaoter and qnahflcatloos, based upon their own knowl·
edge of the man ; he most not be engaged in the business of selling Intoxicating
liquor as a beverage ; most pay in actual money a sum previously agreed upon by
the Lodge to which he petitions, as an initiation fee ; most declare npon honor, that
he oft'ers himself freely and volnntarily, unbiased by improper solicitation and nnlnflnenced by merc6nary motives, and that he Is prompted to solicit the privileges of
:Masonry by a favorable opinion conceived of the Instiiation, a desire for knowledge,

718

Proceedings of the

[Oot. 15,

a sincere wish of being serviceable to his fellow creatares, and.that he has not beeg
rejected by any other Lodge of Masone, and promises oonform1ty to oor neages an
customs.
None may dlepot~ the excellent tenets approved In the f~regol~g section, and
yet we oan't see the necessity for the incorporation of all the virtue~ mto the organ~c.
law of Grand Lodge, forbidding what might safely be left to the JDdgment and dis
oretion of the Lodge. As Bro. SPBED says, in another place :We think Grand Lodges should refrain from unnecessary interreren?e. with the
prerogatives of the Lodge by the addition of new requirements for its pr1vJieges.
It seems to os the liquor dealer might be made a "peraona non .g~~a ". to the
Masons of Mississippi without incorporating the declaration of proh1b1t10n mto the
organic law of Grand J,odge.
A telegram was received by the Grand Secretary informlnl{ Grand Lodge that
Paet Grand Master JoHN RILEY was lying at the point of death, expected to pass
away at any moment.
The Grand Secretary was directed to convey by telegraph the.sympathy of Grand
Lodge to the family of Bro. BILBY, with the fervent wish that his life be spared to
them; and, on motion of Bro. Paet Grand Master PAXTON, Grand Lodge, led by Bro.
B£BKLEY, engaged in prayer for the recovery of Bro. RILEY•
.
The Grand Secretary's Report is a foll and complete statement of the condition
of the jurisdiction. Bro. PowBR gives special attention to the good work of the
Natchez Protestant Orphan Asylom, a protege of Grand Lodge, ao d invokes the
continuance of its care and pro~ction.
The Committee on Necrology, Bro. Past Grand Master BAVEBY, Chairman, paid a
most feeling and eloquent tribute to those brethren who, dorin~ the recess ~~ Grand
Lodge, had passed "into the Jong procel!llion that passes away ID the Dight.
Tllie jurisdiction is divided Into twelve Districts, each under the supervision of a
District Deputy Grand Master.
The Report oo Oorrespondence Is presented by Past Grand Master A:WBBW ~·
BABDLBY, who reviews the proceedings of fifty-three Grand Lodges, .ma~mg o.p hie
Haeonic world without touching Oalifornia, which, however, he saye,.m h1~ notio~ of
Delaware, failed to eome to hand. Bro. BARDLBY gives us an interesting d~esertation
upon Freemasonry, its obiecte and ends, as an introdnctioo, and then takmg op the
alphabetical thread, reviews Alabama and Bro. PILLANB for the years 1894 and 1895,
with whom he finds himself In entire harmony.
1n his notice of the comments of various correspondents upon the rig~t exercised
by Grand Master SPINKS io the ose of his prerogative, Bro. BARCLEY withholds the
expression of his opinion in acknowledgment of the right of. the !"aw Committee ~o
the first say upon that question. Bro. BAaOLEY loyally sostams his Grand Lodge m
her jorisdictloaal claim over the Masonic Jives and fortune~ of all those onfor~onates
\o whom she has refosed admission, and joins in condemnation of the cypher m all of
its varione forms.
He says a good word for the representative system, and believes that the physical
qna!ifications demanded of an initiate are modified in an applicant for advancement,
boi we have taken so much space for the dissemination of Bro. SPsBD's good, sound
docirines that we most reluctantly leave Mississippi.
M.·. w.·. Jums F, McOooL was elected Grand Master; B.·. W.'. J. L. PowER
was re·eleoted Grand Secretary.
Correspondent: Past Grand Master ANnasw H. BAllCLBY, Orawrord.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

719

MISSOURI.

The Grand Lodge of Miaeouri held its seventy-fifth Annual Communication in
Jefferson City, October 15, 1895,-M.·. W. '. J. B. THOMAS, Grand Master,
R. ·. W. •. JoHN D. VINOIL, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge of Missouri has enrolled five hundred and sixty-three chartered Lodges, with a membership of 30, 728 Master Mnsons. Two hundred and
one Lodges were represented a.t this Communication. There were present fourteen
Past Grand Masters, and the Representatives of eight sister Grand J uriedictions.
California's Representative, W. ·• JOHN E. RYLAND of Lexington, was not present.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap.
lain and Music by the Grand Choir.
The Grand Master in hie Address gave the brethren a cordial welcome, and
asked for a continuance of their aid and assistance during the session. He
reported that all was well in their relations with other Grand Lodges. He had
issued dispensations for the formation of six new Lodges. Special dispensations to
confer degrees out of time he had in variably refneed. He reports the case of disputed j uriediction of Checotah Lodge of Indian Territory against Decatur Lodge of
:Miaeouri, and after careful consideration his judgment favors the claim of Indian
Territory.
His decisions, although of importance, are governed entirely by the local law
of Missouri. The comer-stones of the High School building at St. Joseph, and
the Masonic Temple at Chillicothe, were laid by the Grand Lodge daring the year.
He reports the death of Past Grand Master JAMES P. WooD, and also of District Deputy Grand Master R. ·. W. ·. Bro. F. A. A l!'l!'LIWK. These, he says, " with
many other of our dear brethren, have passed over the dark river, and joined the
innumerable hosts who have gone before."
The Masonic Home received from Grand Lodge dues for 1895, up to date, the
sum of $26,169.
The Warden of the penitentiary invited the Grand Lodge to visit that institution. An invitation was received from the Governor, inviting the Grand Lodge to
visit the Gubernatorial Mansion, which was accepted.
Bro. A. L. Ross, Grand Orator, delivered an A ddress upon "Freemasonry in
the United States."
Memorial services were held, devoted to the memory of Paet Grand Master
JAMBS PERRY WooD, when a memorial tribute, accompanied by resolutions, was
adopted, and brief personal remarks were made by Past Grand Masters Vurou.,
BRAoB, GIVAN, DooKERY and ANDBBSON.
The Third Degree was exemplified before Grand L odge by the Grand Lecturer
and assistants.
The Masone of Missouri are in earnest in the establishment and maintenance
of a Masonic Home. From the reports of the President, Past Grand Master
NOAH M. GIVAN, and t he Secretary, Paet Grand M aster JOHN R. PARSON, we
note that for the year ending September, 1895, the receipts were $26, 781.85.
The Masonic Home of J.\.fiSBouri would seem to be safely anchored. It has also
an additional support in the Endowment Fund, known as "The Knights Templar
Triennial Endowment F und Masonic Home of Missouri." This fund consists of
bonds of Henry, Jasper, Caae, Pettie, Butler and Schuyler counties, of $50,000, on
which the interest is regularly paid.
All honor to the Masons of Missouri for their enterprise and perseverance.
The Superintendent, io hie report, says :-

[Oct. 15,

Proce.edings of the

720

f rty have been received into the
Our reldster shows that one h un d red an d
d d f t fi
dmitted
8
ieen _dis'.
!barged leavi~g ninety-one in the Home at present-forty-thr~e i;jr!\tw:htyH~!!
boys, thirteen old ladie:, se.ven ~l.d ~reth~;,en·. ~esf:;;'.t~~~iv:f 0~~ ~hildren are

°
1;~U:.~ts~;:i;tsc:~!~~"iii~H~~:;i~~et~~eh :le~tl~~~e F~~ty-~[~r-h::e

~~~~1~J~: ~l::\!b'1~~ ~cl:~~~~. ;h~ ::f~ri~;1aye mafking dat~fa<:ili1?re1'~~;:•£0 ~~

their studies, and nearly all have excellent ratmg or con uc ·
deaths during the year.
.
.
De i L dge of MisIn the matter of Checutah Lodge of Indian Territory vs.
ca ur .t~
J rissouri, referring to jurisdiction oyer one B. F. LAFAYETTE, t~~ Cot'.h:1th! ~~tio~ of
prudence presented !l report _which was ato~:ec'·Jeco:Jomen ;nfo confer the Third
the Grand Master m ordenng Decatur o.,,.He, . o.
' _nod the first and second
Degree on B F LAFAYETTE, be approved.
avmg receive
. " . . . t"1 "

~!are~s ~i:~~~~% 0;e:~t:r~b~~d t~~~eb,::o:hu~o~~~d i!hbe:!tfti~g t~~

·a

b

Decatur Lodge and recommend that the same

pat

o

rfa

co

L~~~~ wiiTch bas jurisdicti~n over him as to the cooferring of the Third Degree.
Which we think is as it should be.
.
. . .
An amendment to the Constitution was unanimously adopted, m which it ts
provided that the dues of fifty cents per member, now provided by law for the
support of the Masonic Home, shall be collected and paid _over for that p~rpose,
and no part thereof shall ever be used for the payment of mileage, or per diem, or
any expense of Grand Lodge.
. .
The Grand Lodge also resolved that should a non-affili~te Mas?n, who ts m
good standing, apply for membership in the Lodg~ an_d he reJected, his good stand
ing shall continue for twelve months after such re1ect1on.
.
The Grand Lodge of Missouri pays its Grand Secretary $2,500 per year, its
Grand Lecturer $2 250 and its Chairman on Correspondence $500. The Grand
Representative is Wor~hipful CHARLES H. BBY*N, of our Excel~ Lo.dge, No.166,
who attends to Missouri's interests near the Grand Lodge of Cahfomia.
Among the memorial pages we note one devoted to the memory of FBED. L.
BILLON, Past Deputy Grand Master, aged nearly ninety-five years.
"As Hiram slept, the widow's son,
So doth our brother take his rest."
Past Grand M:ister and Grand Secretary Bro. JoHN D. VINOIL again presents
the Report on Correspondence, in which he reviews . the acts of ~fty·two Grand
Lodges, omitting only British Colu':11bi~, India". T~rr1~ory and Mame, because the
"tardy Grand !jecretary" didn't ship his material m t~~e.
.
Bro. VINOIL'S notice of California is of the admm1stration of_ Gra".d Mas~er
OBME. The death of our eldest and youngest Past Grand Masters ts noticed, w1~h
fraternal sympathy. Bro. VINOIL is not in accord with Grand Master _OB~E m
his desire for the multiplication of Lodges, and we thoroughly concu_r m ~is rek that "one large sound, active working Lodge is worth five weaklmgs lmgeron to decay and dissolution." Although concurring in most of Grand Master
OBME's decisions, Bro. V1NOIL excepts to his ruling that "any ~ember ?f
the Lodge is eligible to fill the office of Master." Nevertheless the ru~1ng was m
accordance with our Constitution, Section 3 of Art. 1, ~art 4, which . reads:
"None but members in good standing, whose dues are paid, shall. be entitled t~
vote at an election ; and every voter shall be eligible to any office m _the Lo~,ge.'
Another ruling of Grand Master OBME, excepted to by Bro. VINOIL, is that _one
who has lost an eye, and wears a glass eye in its place, or one who bas lost the s1ght
of one eye, cannot be lawfully initiated in this State." Undoubtedly th~ Grand
Master based his ruling upon a General Regulation reported by the Committee on
Jurisprudence and adopted by the Grand Lodge in 1864, which reads :-

=

Grand L0<lge of Oalifortcia.

1896.]

721

The person who desires to be made a Mason must he a man ; no woman nor
eunuch ; free born; neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman; a believer in
God and a future existence ; of moral conduct ; capable of reading and writing;
not deformed or "dismemhertxl," but hale and aound in his physical conformation ;
having his right limbs as a man ought to have, and be able to conform literally to
what the several degrees respectively require of him.
This regulation has been repeatedly reaffirmed by our Grand Lodl!'e. In 1892
the question was again asked of the Grand Master: "Can the petition of a man
who has lost one of his eyes, but is qualified in all other respects, be received in a
Lodge of Master Masons?" And was again referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, who made the following report :The same question was, during the year, several times proposed to the Grand.
Master, and was by him answered affirmatively. That portion of his address relating to this subject being referred to this committee, they have again carefully
considered the re~ulation which must control the answer. That regulation readsas quoted aforesaid. This regulation was adopted in 1864 upon the recommendation
of the Committee on Jurisprudence, of which Bro. HENBY H. RHEES was then
Chairman. If the last clause is to control, as some of our best informed brethren
seem to think was intended, then the only inquiry to be made is as to the ability
to conform to the requirements of the degrees, and if the candidate can do that
be may be deforme,d, or diamembertxl, and not be hale or sound in bis physical conformation. In the judgment of your committee, a fair construction of the regulation requires not only that the applicant shall not be deformed or dismembered
and shll.l.l be hale and sound ir. bis physical conformation, havinir his right limbs
as a man ought to have, but that he must a"8o be able to conform literally to what
the several degrees respectively req11ire of him. Such construction gives mt1aning
to every part of the reg11lation, as the rules of construction universally adopted
require, while the other construction gives effect to the last clause only. The law
fixes the standard. Can one who has lost an eye be said to come up to that
standard ? Your committee think that he cannot, and that his petition should not
be received.
Which report was concurred in.
We think there can be no doubt of the correctness of the Grand Master's ruling
under our law.
Bro. VINOIL closes his notice with good words for Calliornia. He says:It was the privilege of this writer during the summer of 1894 to visit, for the
first time, the land of "fair woman and brave men," as well as sunshine, fruits
and beautiful flowers in the Golden State. Thus the dream of years was realized.
Having traveled from ocean to cicean, and from the far north land to the "Sunny
South," in all my wanderings I never met with a country so d~sirable as "the
land of the setting sun." It was a revelation to me. I can not do it justice.
Therefore I shall not attempt to describe what to me is indescribable. It must
suffice to say that I would love to live in California, prlYlli,dtd I miirbt be allowed
to select my location according to fancy and taste. Let me dwell in beautiful
Oakland for a time, enjoyinl!' its rare chmate and flowers, then give me a season
for tarrying awhile at San Jose and Del Monte. Thence to Southern California,
taking in all places of beauty and delight. But please exempt me from the necessity of staying in San Francisco when the trade winds send up those cold mists
from the ocean, roouiring flannels and overcoats in June and ,July. Also deliver
me from the sirocco and scorching fires of the San Juan country about pretty
Fresno, when the mercury registered 110 and upwards, with the ice all exhausted
in July, and a "strike" on, cutting off supplies from everywhere. With twenty.
one days' detention in any one place, under the drawbacks incident to the worst
strike of the century, one wants ice and liberty. California is a good country
when one is free to go when and where he may list. But save me from another
California "strike," such as was walking about over that country during my stay
on the coast in 1894. There were many compensations, however, as the Fraternity
made it pleasant, and friends abounded in numbers.

11

722

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

The M. ·: W.•. A. M. HOUGH was elected Grand Master; the R.·. W. ·.JOHN
D. VINOIL was re-elected Grand Secretary.
.
Correspondent, Past Grand Master JOHN D. ViN_OIL, St. ~ms.
'l;he next meeting of Grand Lodge will be held 1n St. Loma, October 20, 1896.
MONTANA.

The Grand Lodge of Montana held a Special Communication in the city of He_lena,
Jnly 25, 1895, for the pnrpoae of performing the last sad rit.ea over ~be remains of
Past Grand .Master RIOHA1lll O. Hxon!AN, whose death occurred at Chicago, Jnly 20.
In the absence of the Grand Master, the Grand Lodge was opened by the Deputy
Grand Master In Dne Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain. An eloqnent enlogy
was pronounced by Past Grand Master W. F. SANDBBS. Six Past Grand Mastera
acted as pall bearers. The Grand Lodge formed in procession under the escort of
Helena Commandery, and the funeral train proceeded to the cemetery, where the
remains were deposited with the impressive ceremonies of the Frater~lty.
The Grand Lodge held Its thirty-first Annual Communication in the city of Helena
October 9 1895,-M.·. W. •• J.A.MlilS H. MONTBATH, Grand Master; B. ". W. •. COB!iRLIUS
H
BS Grand Secretary. The Grand Lodge of Montana baa enrolled thirty-nine
ac~1: r:Odges, with a membership of 2,4.91 Master Masons. Tbi~ty-aeven Lodg~s
were represented at this Communication, as were also eighteen sister Grand Jurisdictions. There were eight Past Grand Masters in attendance.
.
A handsome portrait of M. •• W. •• Grand Master Mo11T&ATH graces the openmg
page of this volume.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer l>y _the Grand Chap·
lain.
. th
In his Address the Grand Master reported the past year as nneventfn1 in
e
history of the Grand Lodge. He mentioned the vacant place of the lame~ted Past
Grand Master HrcKK.AN, and paid an earnest tribute to his character as a citizen and
Mason.
.
N · ·
The official acts of tlie Grand Master were entirely of a routine
order.
o v191tatlons were reported. The decisions made were but constructions of the local law•
One dispensation, for the formation of a new Lodge, was i88ned.'
Bro. HBOOEB, Grand Secretary and chairman of a committee to procure and
present some 8'1it.able testimonial to Past Grand Master F. C. "'.BBBT~h· reported th~
performance of that duty in the purchase of a silver tea service wit accompa.!11·
ments, and their transmission to Bro. WBBBTER, whose acknowledgment, with
thanks, was returned to Grand Lodge.
The per capita does of members of Lodges to Grand Lodge were reduced from $2
to $1.50.
The following was adopted-" bot In silence:"Your committee on selection of place of location of meeting, further recommend
the passage of the following resolution:.
.
f
That it is the sense of this body that banquets in connection with the ae~s1ona o
the Grand Lodge do not materially add to the good of Masonry; that they tn~erfe~e
with the work of Grand Lodge , and place an nnnecesaary burden upon the <.Jraft. JD
the cities in which oar sessions are held ; and that hereafter the . Craft of such c1t1es
be respectfully requested to dispense with such forms of entertainment.
The Committee on Jurisprudence recommended, and the Grand Lodge amended
the law in regard to balloting to read as follows:Sec. 3. No Lodge shall have more than one ballot for the. three degre!ls, ~~t,
'though an applicant may be elected to receive them, if at any time before bis iu1tla·

1896.]

Grand Lodge o/ OaUforn?.a.

723

t ion, passing or raising, objection be made by any member, he shall not receive the
degree to which anch o bjeotion is made nntil such objection la or shall have been
withdrawn. Provided, that where a candidate has been elected to receive either of
the degrees of M.aaoury, and who from any cause faUs to present biinself to the
Lodge and receive the same within three months from the date of aucb election, a
new ballot shall be had with a favorable result before such degree shall be conferred. All laws, resolutions and decisions in conflict herewith are here by repealed.
P. 8.-In the evening a grand reoeption, banquet and ball was given by the
Helena Fraternity to the members of Grand Lodge and their friends. The attend~ce was estimated at aix hnndred, and the bountifUI preparations were overtaxed.
The speeches, by those who heard them, and the viands, by those who tasted them,
were prononnced good. Other cares elsewhere engrossed the Grand Secretary's
attention.
The Report on Correspondence is again presented by Past Grand Master and
Grand Secretary OoB!IBLIUS HBDGBS. Bro. H111DG11111 has an easy conversational style
and manner of commenting upon the doings of Masonic Grand Bodies that is not only
aatisfactory to the reader bnt gives him high rank as a condenser of widely "scattered" information. Bro. HzooBS was in a harry-to get his report Into shape first,
and then to get himself to Boston, and be succeeded in both attempts. We are glad
be succeeded, but exceedingly sorry that we did not meet, for "time winging us
away;" birthdays seem to come closer together; In fact, the "margin" is getting
iaconveniently narrow. Another birthday and we have rounded out man' s allowance
of " three score and ten," with no extension guaranteed; and as the walking la bad
up Montana way, we have no well-founded hope of meeting Bro. HEOOlll!! very soon.
Bro. H.trnGBS' review of California is for the administratio~ of Grand Master OBHll:.
He quotes freely from the addreBB, and la In sympathy with the opinions advanced.
He alludes to the death of onr oldest and youngest l'ast Grand Mastera, and the
eloquent words of his college friend and brother, WILLIAM H. L. BABNBB, at Bro.
STJ:VlllNBON'B funeral.
Bro. HEDGES has good words for our efforts in establishing a Masonic Home as in
onr Boards of Relief Organization, and several good words for Grand Secretary
JOHNSON. Of the Oration of Bro. NILlllS S&ABLS, Grand Orator, he says:-

Is

The Addre88 of Bro. NrLBS Sll:ABLS, delivered at the morning session on Wednea•
day, la so Dl!like a majority of this class that it deserves notice. It is full of thought
and snggeat1on, rather than flowers of rhetorlo. .The orator thinks it was the Greeks
who taught.the Tyriana architecture, whence Solomon drew his templ&-builders. He
thinks ~be soui~l lnsti!1ct the true ~~is of intellec.tn.al cultnre, and that Masonry ha.~
shown its practical wisdom In ntlhzmg It. Yea; it 1s In the social contact and grind
t~at ~be perfect spiritual ashlars are shaped and polished. If there fvere no evoln·
tion m Xaaonry, 1t wonld be worth no more than any other fossil. No; Masonry is
!1ot for e!erybody. We wan~ good material or onr work will come to naught. .Man
11 a relig1ona as well as a social creatnre. Masonry recognizes this troth in broader
and truer sense f.han any of the sects. The world is sweeping op to the light and on
to God.
Under Iowa, of onr old friend Bro. PARVIN, Bro. Hll:DGES writes :Grand Secretary P ABVIM's Report is foll of interest and Information, but on the
whole a sad one, for It is a story of thwarted ambitions. He unfolds what he intended
to lnclnde In a memorial volume, and he discloses the fact that if Grand Lodge had
anthori~ed lhe acquisition of new ground, private friends of the Library stood ready
to provide the means to have erected the neceBBary buildings. The Library baa beeu
pnrged of every last vestige of the Tank Kee collection and the cases devoted to
nobler pnrpoaea. The malodorous Bailey ls also expelled from Masonry and is scot
free to indulge his Idiosyncrasies withoutaffecting the Masonic temperatare. Bro. P.
has a kind word of remembrance for old associates and friends who have solved the
areat mystery in advance. We would fain believe that Bro. PABVI!I has more friends
and fewer enemies living than he thinks.
And under Indiana, he invites them all to Montana through Bro. Coll!ll!Ol!!S :-

724

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

Bro. WILLIAM CoxxoNs Is an old hand In serving np correspondence. He attends
to bnslness and engages in no oontroversies. What escapes his notice is hardly
worth mentioning, and those who follow Bro. Bxnmc's advice and Bro. O.'s reports
will understand what Is going on In the Masonic world and be well-Informed Mason•.
His notice of Montana is all that oonld be desired. We shonld like to show Bro. O.
aronnd some in Montana and take him throngh the National Park, which we helped
to bring to the notice of the world twenty-five years ago. It would be a good place
to spend these hot July days. We always did like monntaine, even though they were
not full of gold and silver and other metals. When JEFFBBSON made the Louisiana
pnrchaae he made the biggest bargain on the world's record. Our Montana mines
could pay the whole cost several times over in a single year, and there is enough in
eight to pay the National debt.
R.". W.·. JUIEB H. MILLS was elected Grand Master; R.". W.·. CORNELIUS
HEDGBB was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Ohalrman of Oorrespondence : Paet Grand Master CoBNBLIOB Hxooss, Helena.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of Bntte on the third
Wednesday in September, 1896.
NEBRASKA.

The Grand Lodge of Nebraska held its thirty-eighth Annual Communication in
the city of OJDaha, Jnne 12, 1895,-the M.". W.". J'oHN A. EHRHARDT, Grand Master,
the B.-. W.". WILLUH R. BowEN, Grand Beoretary. Nebraska has enrolled two
hundred aud thirteen Lodges, with a membership of 11,770 Master Masons. Two
bondred and one of the two hundred and thirteen Lodges were represented at the
present session. Twenty-nine sister Grand Lodges were also represented by their
Grand Representatives, and there were present thirteen Past Grand Masters and
one Past Deputy Grand Master.
A Lodge of Master Masons was opened preceding the opening of the Grand
Lodge, as required by the law of Nebraska.
The Grand Master declared the Grand Lodge open for the trRnsaction of business
and delivered his Annual Address. After a fraternal greeting he said they were
assembled to review the past, to perform the duties of the present and to plan for
the fntnre, and he invoked tho blessing of God upon their labors; but before proceeding to render an account of his official acts he would for a few brief momenta
direct their attention to those brethren who went oot, with them, to the scene of
their labors, bot never returned. A Past Grand Master and a Past Senior Grand
Warden head the roll upon which is inscribed the names of one hundred and seventeen of our own kindred and br~thren. The Gra!1d Master said :My heart goes oat in sympathy to the bereaved families and friends of our de·
pa.rte<! brethren, for lo my own life there came a day, since last we met, when
"Mother" was called away, and she now lies sleeping by the placid waters of the
Pacific Ooean.
He also repor~ the death of many distinguished brethren of sister jurisdictions,
leaving to the usual committee the duty of preparing suitabla remembrance by ex·
pressing the sympathy of the Grand Lodge of Nebraska for the bereaved and sor·
rowing friends who monro their departure.
Be submitted the Wisconsin proposition referring to Masonic relief. H e repo~ted
the constitution of five new Lodg~s during the recess, and the issuance of diepensa·
tlons for the formation of seven others. The ueoal number of special dispensation•
were issned. Two uew Masonic halls were dedicated and the corner-stone of a High
School building laid at Schuyler.
From the Report of the Grand Secretary we learn that the appropriations made
by the Grand Lodge for the year ending J'nne 10, 1895, amounted to $21,950.94., of
which there was disbursed the som of $21,926.SS.

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Ocdifornia.

725

Referring to the delay in Issuing hie proceedings last year Bro. BowBN-eaya : The strike caused so~e of the delay, but most of ft was because a document was
re!1Joved from my ~e~k m Grand Lodge without my knowledge or consent, aud it took
thirty days .to.find !t m the pos_seBBlon of a brother who didn't know he had it; the
moral ?f this 1s plam. and appbes to each and every one of yon brethren now hefore
me ; kmdly take notice and govern yourselves accordingly - - eh?
The Grand Lodge of Nebraska has an Orphans' Educational Fund amounting at
this date to the handsome sum of $25,187.81. The fnnd le invested in securities at
aix, seven and eight per cent. and per consequence has a good healthy increa~e.
The assets of Grand Lodge (over liabilities} are $56,075.64.
Bro. B111NJAKIN F. THOH.lB, Grand Orator, delivered a floe oration upon the hie·
tory and work of Freemasonry.
We note the presence of California's Representative, Bro, DAvm M. MCELHINNEY,
as a workman.
Lodges, as a role, are the beet judges of their dnties t.o a needy and unfortunate
brother, bnt the following statement and righteous jndgment prove that there are in
the Lodge as In the world, and possibly In the church, selfish men and Masons :Your Committee on Grievances have had under consideration the appeal of Fair·
Lodge, No. 50, to reimburse said
J'a'r:field Lodge for moneys expended in the relief and burial of Bro. JOHN R.
J[ALTBY, a member of Hastings Lodge, bat sojourning within the jurisdiction of the
.Fairfield L?dge, and beg leave to report:·rbat ea.id deceased brother had been a member of Rawlings Lodge for many years
He appears to have bee!1 in poor circumstances from the first, as sometimes he paid
He resided
b1~ ~ues and '!'t other ~1mes they were remitted by Haetings Lodge.
within .the bm1ts of FairfieW. Lodge, where he took sick and died and the Fairfield
brethren expended $1L1.35 iu caring for and burying him. so.:ie time before his
death Hastings Lodge preferred charges against him for non-payment of dnes and
he was sus!>ended. ~ome brethren, In ao~ abo_ut Fairfield, learning of this, by pri·
vate contribution ~a1sed m.oney with which his does were paid, and he was rein·
stated, and at th~ time of h1~ death was lo good standing. The Hastings brethren
now !efuse to reimburse Fairfield Lodge on the grounds that the sentence of sos·
pension was removed by means of a trick or device. Your committee cannot sustain the contention of Hastings Lodge. It was no concern of theirs where the
money Call!e from whlc~ procured the reinstatement of Bro. MALTBY. Indeed, we
feel no hes1tat1on In saymg that Bro. MALTBY shonld never have been suspended at
all. Eaoagh appears ~ show ~hat HaBl.iWJS Lodge knew his financial condition
when they suspeaded him, and his dnes should have been remitted in~tead of a sentence of suspension passed against him. We therefore report the'following resolution:Reeoloed, That Hastings Lodge, No. 50, be reqnlred to pay over to Fairfi,eW.
Lo~e , No. 84, the sam of $117.95 disbursed by Fairfield Lodge In the. relief and
burial of Bro. Jo1111 R. MALTBY.

~Id Lodge, No. 84, from the refosal of Hastings

Telegraphic oongratulatlone were exchanged with the Grand Lodges of Manitoba
North Dakota, Nova Scotia, Oregon, Bonth Dakota, Vermont and Wisconsin, all of
whom were at the same time In seRSion.
The Report on ~orrespondence is again by the veteran Grand Secretary, WILLI.lJl
R. BoWEN, who writes freely, forcibly, and condenses wonderfully. Tbe present Is a
shor1 report, considering the nnmber of Grand Lodges reviewed, but is fall of lnllirnctioo and wise comment. In his review of Grand Master OBHlll's opinions and
doings he Is in general accord with the Grand Master. He would lesaen the evil of
non-affiliation by the adoption of the New York plan, recently adopted by Iowa and
Nebraska, or any other as good; thinks the real purpose of a dimit is for the transfer of a Mason from one Lodge to another-not a certificate of relief from the pay·
JDent of dues. Be don't really ooodemn oor legislation, bot evidently thinks we
might do better. Be says, however, that the Masons who declare that every
brother must belong to some Lodge if he would enjoy Masonic rights and privileges,

Proceedings of the

726

(Oct. 15,

are at the head of the procession and marching on and on, Bro. BowEll hits the
nail very hard when, nnder Maine, in response to onr Bro. DRUMMOllD on the non.
a!Bliate matter, he says:a
It is time.that California, with New York, Ohio, Iowa, Missonri, Nebraska and
that
nnmber of other Grand Lodges, le seeking to make the non·affiliate nnders~nd
he "ostracize& htmaelf" if he don't belong to a Lodge, jnst as onr citizen" debars
himaelf" from voting if he don't register.
Snch is the whole story in a few words. Bro. Bowu fails not to condemn the
cipher evil and commends the bad habit to the attention of Grand Masters for heroic
treatment.
Under Pennsylvan ia Bro. BOWEN pays a handsome and well·deserv ed tribute to
the dead Past Grand Master and all around loving Masonic oharacter, RICHARD
VAux. He says :what
We commend his writings to any yonng Nebraskan who desires to learnfeebly
that
Freemason ry Is and in what it differs from the many modern societies
Sanday.
the
with
it
Imitate onr ancient lnstitotion and try to improve It by crossing
school and the sewing-circle.
Bro, BowE11 has a habit of writing much truth with the nse of few words., Under
Utah, in a conversatio n with Bro. CHRISTOPHER DDtHL, he remarks: "That if all
Lodgea coltivated sociability as do the Lodges or Utah, the Shrine wonld probably
never have been heard of."
WILLIAM R.
M.·. W.·. HBNBY H. WILSON was elected Grand Master; R.'.
BowEN was re-elected Grand Seoretary. Correspond ent, B.-. W.'. WILLIAM R.
BowBN, Omaha.

w...

NEVADA .

The Grand Lodge of Nevada held its ~lrty·secood Annual Communica tion in
Wiooemncc a Jone 9, 1896,-B.-. W.•. ENOCH STROTHER, Depnty Grand Master, pre·
siding; V.-. W.-. 0. N. NorswABll:, Grand Secretary.
A Special Oommnoicatioo had been held October 6, 1895, In the town of Dayton,
for the pnrpose of paying the last ~ad and solemn dnties to the remains of the departed
Grand Master, the M.-. W.·. JOHN CLARKE HABLll'rl', whose death occurred October
Sd, B.-. W.-. D. W. VmGnr, Senior Grand Warden, presiding; V.'. W.-. 0. N.
NoTl!IWABE, Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge was opened In Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap·
lain.
Tribntee to the deceased Grand Master were paid by the acting Grand Master
B.-. W.-. Bro. VIRGIN, and by W.'. Bro.· W. D. JOMES of Lander Lodge, No. 8,
Grand Lodge then formed in procession; and escorted by De Witt Olinton Commandery, No. 1, conveyed the remains to the Conrt Boose, where religious s~rvfoes
were held, and, when concluded, the procession reformed, proceeded to the cemetery
and performed the last sad rites over the remains of the departed Grand Master.
A second Special wae held April 15, 1896, at Carson City, for the pnrpose or
honoring with Masonic borial the remains of Past Grand Master JOHN E. Jons, who
died in San Francisco April 10th, R.-. W.'. ENOCH Br&OTHEB, Depnty Grand Master,
W.-. C. N. NoTEWAaB, Grand Secretary. There was a large attend·
presiding;
aoce of officers and members of the Grand Lodge and of twelve coo8titoent Lodges,
The R.-. W.-. Depnty Grand Master announced the death of the M.-. W.-. GrBnd
Master, and stated that Grand Lodge had convened for the pnrpose of paying to bis
memory the last sad trlbnte of respect and affection.

V.-.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oal,ifornt.a.

727

An affecting sympathetic letter from Bro. CHBIBTOP~m DIBllL, Grand Secretary
of Grand Lodge of Utah, to the Grand Lodge of Nevada wae read by the Grand i:lecretary and ordered entered In the jonrnal.
Grand Lodge then formed in prooession and proceeded to the State Capitol,
where a large cooconrse bad assembled. Eloqnent addressee were delivered by the
Grand Orator, W.'. J.C. &ruBBs, and by the resident clergy, on the life and character
ot the deceased.
An interesting paper from the Nevada Press Association, a trlhnte to the late
Governor, wae read.
The ceremonies were Interspersed with mnslc rendered by the several chnroh
choirs of the city.
Grand Lodge again formed in procession, and with the Governor's staff and S~te
W.'. Brother and
inilitla, proceeded to the cemetery, where the remains of onr
Governor of Nevada were deposited with the final and solemn ceremonies of the
Fraternity.

R.-.

Sixteen Lodges were represented at the Anaoal a,ommnnica tioo and thirteen
representati ves of sister Grand J nriediotions were pr,ent, with three Paet Grand
Masters.
The Depnty Grand Master having assnmed the dnties of Grand Master, delivered
his Address. He welcomed the brethren in attendance npoo the thirty-i!econd
. Annual Commonication, and dwelt in sadness npon the circumstanc es under which
they had come np to discharge the dulies lncnmhent upon them as members of the
Graod Lodge of Nevada. The Grand Master bad passed to his eternal rest • a
beloved Paet Grand Master, after a long and paiofnl illness, had followed him i~to
the unknown laod from whioh no traveler retnrns. Grand Master Jomi C'LABKB
HAsLETT and Past Grand Master Jo~ E. 'JoxES have gone from among the Jiving,
and we have hot the example of their usefnl lives to remind ns to so improve the
solemn warning, that we, like our departed brethren, may be fonnd worthy to inherit
the kingdom prepared for the jnst and nprlght Mason.
The seventeen brethren whose names are inscribed npon the death roll of the
year received proper mention, their names entered of record and deposited In the
.
archives of Grand Oommandery.
report
favorable
a
makes
and
visitations
several
made
Master
The aotlng Grand
or the condition of the jurisdiction so far as the Lodge work and bosloess is coooerned. He observes, however, that "the year has been very quiet. No difticnlties
requiring the exeroise of anthority have occnrred, and onr relations with all other
onr porj~lsdi~tions a~e pleasant. The bnsiness depression which has so long been
uon still oontmnes. Many of our brethren are still moving to other jnrisdlotion s,
and year by year onr members are decreasing, althongh this last year we have lost
.
bot seven, which is encouragin g."
Pocho, to change its place
of
No.1!1,
Lodge,
John
Sf,,
authorized
Lodge
Grand
of meeting to De Lamar, in said coonty.
A banquet was tendered and accepted by Grand Lodge from the brethren of
Winnemucca Lodge, No.19, and the local Lodge of the Order of the Eastern Star.
The Committee on Memorials reported appropriate and feeling resolntlons referring to the life and services of the Most Worshipfnl Bro. JOHN E. JoNBs, Past Grand
Kaster and Governor of Nevada.
The Report on Correspond ence is presented by Worshipfnl Bro. RoBERT LBwllBS,
Past Master of Reno Lodge, No. 13. Bro. LlcwBBS is a lover of the institntion of
Treemasonr y, and of the Nevada branch in particular. He was not content with the
blank space in the jonrnal which is generally apportioned to corresponde nce, and so

728

[Oct. 15,

Proceed,irigs of the

he proposed a partnership to Grand Lodge, the terms of whloh permitted him to
furnish the copy while Grand Lodge " set it up" and printed it. As a result of Bro.
LEWERS' generone offer we h11ve before ne a journal of the proceedings of the Grand
Lodge of Nevada, with a foll Bl>port on Correspondence, which gives the bret.h ren
of Nevada the condition of the Masonic world, a part of which they are and we
trnst will remain until the good times come again. Bro. LBWERll' review of California
is for the administration of Grand Master STEVBNB, whose addrees he commends and
says he thinks " the Grand Master fulfilled the duties of hie high office in a very
worthy manner.
He approves the methods of the San Francisco Board of Relief, and says he
knows something of Its inner life. He thinks we should be more liberal with the
Grand Lecturer in consideration of the eyetem of instruction he is endeavoring to
carry out.
Bro. LEWERS has hie joke over "our fnli names," bot commends the practice as
the only means of identiHcation.
Bro. RoBBBT LBWERB merits the thanks of the Masons of the PaciOc Coast, and
especially of Nevada, for his spirited enterprise as a volunteer correspondent.
w... OHAtlll'CEY N.
M••• w... ENOCH 8TROTHEB was elected Grand Master ;
NarswABE was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Correspondent, Worehlpfnl RoBERT Lllw£RS, Reno.

v...

NEW BRUNSWICK.
Many members of the Grand Lodge of New Brunswick assembled in the city
of Saint John August 'l:l, 1895, the appointed time for the Grand Lodge to hold
its twenty-eighth Annual ' Communication, the R. '. W. ·• JOHN V. ELLIS, Past
Grand Master, presiding, when the following action was had:The Grand ~ecretary reported that the Board of General Purposes had appointed W. ·. WILLIAM R. RUSSELL, W. D. G. STEWART and W." CHARLES MASTERS
a Committee on Credentials.
The committee having submitted a report, the acting Grand Master said that
as the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, and many other active members
of Grand I.odge were absent in Boston, attending the celebrations in connection
with the Triennial Conclave of the General Grand Encampment of Knights
Templar of the United States, and as a memorial had be!>n pre•ented to the Grand
Master intimating a wish that the business of Grand Lodge should not be proceeded with at this time, he thought it quite likely that the members present would
agree to take a recese at once. Indeed, there was an understanding throughout
the Craft in the province that Grand Lodge would only meet pro furm.a at this
time, anrl this was in part shown by the limited attendance of officers and members of Grand Lodge from beyond the limits of the city.
On motion of R. ', W. ·. J. T. WHITLOCK, P. D. G. M., seconded by R. '. W. ••
GBORGE B. l!JroAN, acting J, G. W., it was
Beaolvtd, That Grand Lodge do now take recees until Thursday, September 26th,
proximo, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
Grand Lodge took recess accordingly.

September 26th Grand Lodge again 888embled,-M. •• W. ·. THO.MAS W ALKICR,
M. D., Grand Master; V.·. W.·. F. W. WISDOM, Grand Secretary. Twenty.
three of the thirty-one Lodges in the jurisdiction were represented. Representatives of twenty sister Grand Jurisdictions were also present. The thirty,one
Lodges have a membership of 1764 Master Masons. The death roll of the past
•
year had thirty-six names inscribed thereon;
The R. ·. W. •. Grand Master of Prince Edward Island was announ~, and

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

729

was received with the Grand Honore and welcomed by the Grand Master, to
which he made an eloquent response.
The Grand Master extended a hearty greeting to the assembled brethren. He
reported their relations as harmonious and pleasant with the rest of the Masonic
' world, and, although no sensational activity prevailed, they had abundant cause
for thankfulness for the blessings of the year. He had, however, the sad duty to
perform of reporting the death of friends and brethren whose vacant places would
long linger in his memory, as they were a mournful loss to the Fraternity. Past
Grand Master BJCNJ.!.MIN Lli:BTICR PJCTERS and Paet Masters THO.MAB W. PJCTEBS,
W. G. DISBROW, RoBERT GLBNN and HBNRY IIALLJCTT received an eloquent fraternal tribute from the Grand Master, who deposited "his sprig of acacia" in
80rrowful memory of their departure. The Grand Master also referred to the
many illustrious brethren of sister jurisdictions who bad been called from labor
during the year-WHEELBR of Connecticut, CHIVINGTON of Colorado, FRIZZJCLL of
Tennessee, CHADWIOK of Oregon, IBAAOS of Virginia, and VAUX of Pennsylvania.
"To the past go more dead faces everv year."
In reporting his official acts the Grand Master mentions the holding of a Special
(lQmmunication July 11th for the placing of the corner-stone of St. Jude's Church,
and also a special held on the eve of St. John's Day, when six Ledges participated
in attendance upon divine service. He also reported holding a Ledge of Sorrow
in memory of R.-. W. ·. Bro. BBNJAMIN J,JCSTICR PETERS, November 25, 1894. In
commenting upon the proposition of the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin relating to
Masonic relief, he says : I am asked to submit this proposition to you for your action, and I do so with
this single remark, that charity which seeks for a return and confines itself to
those of our own house is not to me the charity taught us in the Lodge, but would
seem to reduce our Craft to the level of a modern assessment association.
In reporting upon the address, the committee said : With the views of the Grand Master in regard to the principle underlying the
svstem of Masonic charity your committee are heartily in accord, hut an examination of the circular iesued by the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin seems to indicate
that a neceBBitv exists in th11t jurisdiction and in jurisdictions conti~ous to it for
an organized system of administering relief so that the worthy rec1vient and the
charitable giver shall · be justly dealt with. The conditions in this Province do
not require such a system here at the present time, but circumstances may make
it desirable to observe with interest the operations of the plan suggested py the
Grand Lodge of Wisconsin.
The Board of General Purposes consists of ten, who are appointed by the
Grand Master.
The Province is divided into five districts, each under the snpervision of a Dis·
trict Deputy Grand Master.
There is no Report on Correspondence.
W .·. FRICIC·
M.·. w.·. JULmB T. · WHITLOOK was elected Grand Master;
MAN W. W1snoM was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The next Annual Communication will be held in the city of SnintJohn, August

v.·.

25, 1896.
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
The Graud Lodge of New Hampshire held a Bemi-.!nnnal Communication at
Freemason's Ball, in the city of Manchester, December 27, 1895,-M.'. W.·. CHARLBS
c. HAm,· Grand Master; R.'. w.·. GBOBGB P. 0LEAVBB, Grand Secretary. New

730

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

Hampshire bears upon her roll seventy-eight Lodges, with a membership of 8,963;
of these, 11.fty-six Lodges were represeuted.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap·
lain.
The Grand Master announced tbe purpose of the session to be the exemplification
of the work by Clinton Lodge, No. 62, Wa8hington Lodge, No. 61, and Lafayelle,
Lodge, No. 4.1, and the three degrees were conferred upon actual candidates by the
said Lodges.
The Grand Master extended to the officers of the three Lodges who had exemplified the work the thanks of the Grand Lodge for the correct, impressive and able
manner in wbich they had rendered it.
Grand Lodge closed.
The one hundred and seventh Annual Communication was held in Freemason's
Hall, in the city of Concord, May 20, 1896,-the M.·. W.-. CHARLES C. HAYES, Grand
Master ; R.·. W.·. GEORGE P. CLEAVES, Grand Secretary. Fifty-two Lodges were
represented. Eight Past Grand Masters were present, with the representatives of
twenty-nine sister Grand Jurisdictions, Including California, whose proxy was Bro.
GEORGE 0. DICKERlllAN, Past Deputy Grand Master.
The names of one hnodred and sixty-eight brethren are inscribed opon the death
roll of 1896.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master appointed his committees and proceeded to deliver his Aoonal
Address. After fraternal greeting he made feeling mention of the absent brethren
whose vaeant places in their midst appealed strongly to their feelings of respect and
atfection, and reminded them of the lose they had sustained. He paid eloquent
tribute to the memory of several District Deputies who had been relieved from dnty
during the year, and directed that proper record be made of their faithful service In
the interest of the Fraternity.
The Grand Master made a fervent appeal for the establishment of a Masonic
Home by the Grand Lodge.
Interesting reports are submitted from the Deputies of the six Masonic Districts,
containing a fnll account of the condition of the seventy-eight Lodges of the jnrisdlc·
tioo.
The Committee on jurisprudence, Bro. JOSEPH W. FELLOWS, Chairman, reported
in favor of maintaining perpetual jnrlsdlctlon and against the proposed uniform roles
. submitted for consideration by the Grand Lodge of Mississippi ; and also against the
uniform proposed plan of the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin as to the dnty of a Lodge to
care for Its own members, etc.
The Grand Secretary presented the following letter, accompanied with the note
described therein :LIVBRlllORE, N. H., March 3, 1896.
DJ:AB Sm AND BBOTHllR :-Io 1625, when the Marquis of LAFAYE'l'l'E was lo Dover,
N. H., my father-In-law, Hon. JoHN TREAT PAINE, late of Cliftoodale, Mase.. was
living in Rochester, N. H., and was 11n attendant at the meetings of the Humane
Lodge, A. F. and A. M., of that town. Possibly he was " member of that Lodge,
bnt that is a point I have never been able to find ont. He oalled to pay hie respects
to the Marquis, and invited him to accompany him to Rochester to attend a meeting
of the Lodge. Owing to prior engagements, LAPAYETTE was compelled to decline
the invitation. At Mr. PAINE'S request, he put his declination in writing, and that
letter has been a prized relic In the family for many years. At Mr. PAINB'B death the
document came into possession of hisl youngest daughter, LUOY M. A. PAINR, who
afterwards became his wife. Some time befor;i her death she told me that after I
was through with the Jetter she wonld like to have me give it to some of the Masonic

1896.l

Grand LOO,ge of California.

731

Bodies with which I had been cooneoted, and in compliance with her request I take
pleasnre in presenting it tbrongh my esteemed friend and brother, Sor.ON A. 0.&.RTBB
of Concord, N. H., to the Grand Lodge of New Hampshire, with the reqnest t hat t hai
Body shall forever keep and preserve it.
Fraternally yonrs,
GEOBGR S. PAINE,
To GBORGE P. CLJ:A.VBB, Esq., Grand Secretary, Grand Lodge of N. H.
The following Is the text of the photographic copy or the interesting relic :1 mnch regret the impossibility I am nuder, In conseqaeooe of previons and
positive engagements, to attend my Brother of the Masonic Humane Lodge of
Rochester on the Celebration which they contemplated on the 24.th. My Heart will
be with them, and I beg them to accept my fraternal love and good wishes.
LAPAYBTTB.
DoVBB, Jone 23, 1825.
The thanks of Grand Lodge were extended to Bro. GEORGE S. PAINE for hie
valned gift.
The Grand Master informed Grand Lodge that a dinner had been provided by the
Grand Stewards and invited all to attend.
The Report on Correspondence is again presented by the chairman, B. ·• W.-.
Bro. ALBBBT S. WA.IT, who reviews the doings of fifty-eight Grand Lodges with his
nsnal ability.
Bro. WAIT notes very folly the proceedings of the Grand Lodge of California. Io
commenting upon the death of our two illustrious Paet Grand M11Sters, BELOHEB and
BROWNE, he paid the following jnst tribute to the 11.rst named distinguished brother:
Past Grand Master BELCHER was not only a distinguished Mason , but occupied a
high plaoe in the civil and social ranks of the communitv where he was familiarly
known, and his death is felt and mourned by all classes of sooiety, while by the Ma1onlc Fraternity it is justly regarded as ths ex tinguishmeot of one of Its best and
brightest lights.
Of Bro. BROWNR he writes:He was a distinguished surgeon in the navy of t he United States, and after his
retirement by ~easoo of age was appointed Burgeon-General by President CL!:VBLAND, and again afterwards by President HARBISON, It was th&-11leasnre of this
writer to have known him personally when we were both yonog mAn, and now to
remember the high qualities we then observed in hie character. His virtues and
worth receive 11.ttlng tribute from the brethren in the published proceedings.
To have kind words spoken of dear friends who have passed beyond oar earthly
vision is to renew the pleasure of fraternal companionship while
" We bow to heaven that willed it so,
That darkly rnles the fate or all,
That sends the respite or the blow,
That's free to give or to recall."
Bro. WAIT mentions the action of Grand Master JAlllES BAUNTY BTBVENS with
approval, compliments the Address of the Grand Orator, and we think generally
agrees with our Committee on Jnrleprndence in its disposition of Masonic comrndrums. And we are pleased to be in accord with him in some matters which oar
Grand Lodge will not see as we do, viz: As to the right of a Mason to select his
Masonic home; and that affiliation ehonld be free and untrammeled ; the right of
Lodges to communicate with each other on matters of Interest to the Frate rnity and
npoo the right of nsing snrplns funds for the cultivation of the social features and
the dissemination of the priooiples of Freemasonry.
As to the question propounded by Bro. WAIT in connection with the prer ogative
exercised by Bro. Grand Master BPINK, we answer most emphatically, yes, most
certainly there is. Bnt as the history of old " prerog ' ' is folly given in a special

732

Procee,dings of the

[Oct. 15,

report made by Bro. FREDERIC SPBSD of the Committee on Le.w e.nd Jurisprudence
of the jnrisdiotion most concerned by this exercise of onwe.rre.nted power, we
respectfnlly refer Sro. WA.IT to his report, pe.ge 64, proceedings of Mississippi for
1896.
Under District of Oolnmbie., Bro. WAIT emphasizes e.n opinion of Bro. SINGLETON
given in reviewing Indiana., the gist of which is that e. motion or proposition snb·
mltted toe. Masonio Lodge, in order to prevail, mnst he.vein its favor e.n e.otnal ma·
jority of votes.
'
Under Nebraska., Bro, WAIT writes e. few sentences In commentary e.rgnment with
Bro. BowEN the.t ought to be thoronghly understood by the Gre.nd Lodge rings of
this de.y e.nd generation. He se.ys : At the formation of the first.Grand Lodge of England the thought entered the
mind of no one the.t it we.s anything more the.n a onion of Lodges for the better government of the Ore.ft in matters pertaining to the genera.I welfare. There i& no reason why they should be anything more to-de.y. We he.ve much higher respect for
the Grand Lodge which consnlts its constituent Lodges before a.citing upon gree.t
me.tiers of genera.I interest than for such e.s assume to a.ct upon the idea. the.t their
so-ca.lied subordinates he.ve no rights which they a.re bonnd to respect.
The M. ". W.-. HKNBY A. M.uisH'we.s elect.ed Gre.nd Master; the B.-. W. -.'GEORGE
P. CLEAVES we.s re-elected Gre.nd Secretary. Che.irme.n of Oorrespondence, B.-. W.-.
ALBEBT s. wAIT, Newport.
NEW JERSEY.

The Gre.nd Lodge of New Jersey held e.n Emergent Communication February
19th, at Butler, Morris County, for the purpose of constituting Silentia Lodge,
No. 168, and on the 25th of February, ~895, for constituting Hale,J,on Lodge, No.
169, e.nd " setting them regularly to work." Inste.lle.tion of the respect! ve officers
was e.lso held, seventeen sister Lodges pe.rticipe.ting in the ceremonies, with
brethren from the jurisdictions of New York, Pennsylvania, Me.sse.chusetts and
the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
The one hundred and ninth Annual Communioe.tion was held in the city of
Trenton on the 29th and 30th days of Je.nue.ry, 1896,-M.·. W.". CHARLES BBLOHER,
Gre.nd Master; B.·. w.-. THOMAS H. R ..RBDWAY, Grand Secretary. One hundred
e.nd sixty-one Lodges, of the one hundred and sixty-six Lodges in the jurisdiction,
were represented. The representatives of thirty-seven sister Gre.nd Jurisdictions,
including California, were in attendance. Seven Pe.st Grand Masters responded
present.
The Grand Lodge of New Jersey has enrolled as affiliated members of her
Lodges 15,686 Master Me.sons.
A fine portrait, on steel, of Grand Master BELCHER illuminates this volume:
The Gre.nd Lodge we.R opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
Che.pie.in and the singing of following opening ode :Pour out Thy Spirit from on high;
Lord thine assembled servants bless;
Gre.ces e.ud gifts to each supply,
And clothe us with Thy righteousness.
An alarm being reported, distinguished visitors were announced, including the
Grand Masters of New York e.nd Pennsylvania, the Grand Secretaries thereof,
with an escort of eminent Deputies and Wardens. It goes without saying that
they were received with all the honors and eloquently addressed by the Gre.nd
Master, and we have no doubt, as the journal records it, that the brethren of the

1896.]

Grand Lodge <if California.

733

Gre.nd Lodge were regally entertained by eloquent remarks fr~m Most Worshipful
and Right Worshipful brethren . ST¥WART, HENDERSON, EHLERS, KELLY and
NISBET.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address, extending a cordial and
fraternal welcome to the assembled brethren. He made fervent e.cknowledgment
to the Supreme Grand Master for the blessings and protection of the past, and
invoking his guide.nee in the future.
Before proceeding to the consideration of the business of the session, the Grand
Master devoted e. few moments to the remembrance of the missing ones, the
familiar faces they had been accustomed to meet and greet at these annual reunions
for many years, who had le.id aside the duties of life and passed from among their
friends and associates forever.
The dee.th roll had inscribed upon it the names of two hundred e.nd fifty-five
brethren, in whose remembrance it was eminently fitting for them to tender such
graceful tributes as spring from loyal and loving hearts, a.nd to the bereft relatives
their heartfelt fraternal sympathy.
From sister jurisdictions he reported the names of many eminent brethren
whose fame was e.s wide as the nation and equally dear to the MMons of Maine or
Montana. We note in the list as California's quota, the names of our beloved Past
Grand Masters JOHN MlLLB BROWNE and WILLIAM CALDWELL BELCHER.
The following is of interest ::..._
In view of assurances me.de by my predecessor, M. ·• W. ". Bro. DURAND, which,
owing to physical cares and press of official duties, he was unable to fulfill, I was
requested to perform a ceremony seldom witnessed in this jurisdiction, but
thoroughly within the province of the Grand Master-that of conferring the
degrees of Masonry at sight. Under the directipn of the Grand Master, a Lodge
of ~aster Me.sons was opened in the rooms of Hadd<mfleld Lodge, No. 130, on the
evenmg of Fi:bruary 2d, 1895, and assisted by my associate and subordinate Gre.nd
Officers, e.nd m the presence of a number of Past Grand Officers and ?isitiog
brethren, the Symbolic Degrees of Masonry were conferred upon Mr. WILLIAM
GARRETT MOORE, a resident of Haddonfield, N, J., and son of Worshipful Brother
HENRY D. MOORE, of Hadn.anfield Lodge. I am informed that the brother subsequently affiliated with Hadn.anfield Lodge, and I trust that he will, in course of
time, become an e.ctive and honored member. He has a distinction of which he
me.y well be ~roud, and in his after life ce.n look be.ck with peculiar feelings of
pride and se.t1sfe.ction to the circumstances and ceremonies attending his Me.some
birth.
We acknowledge that this prerogative was exemplified with perhaps a trifle
more regard for the proprieties than the Ship lele.nd example, but in all seriousnes~ we ask. Why this trifling with the symbols of ] 'reemasonrv? We apprehend
14.-. W. ". Bro. BELCHKR is very much the same kind of a man as our representative
of King SOLOMON, the Grand Master of Ce.lifomie.; a good average sort of an
American citizen can't make the deaf hee.r nor the blind see, nor perform the
miracle of catching the swallow without the necessary quantum of salt ; and when
it comes to making a Mason at sight, we think there is something wrong, eit her in
the authority or the making, and if the initiate survives the ordee.l he is to be
congratulated.
The condition of severe.I of the Lodges, from the le.ck of knowledge posseBl!ed
by their executive heads, as reported by the Gre.nd Master, leads one to doubt the
effice.cy of the system of inspection in force in that jurisdiction, but the Grand
Master's comments we.rra.n t the belief that he has the trouble well in hand, and its
entire correction iii only a matter of time. We dismiss its consideration for this
year.
There is now in the Grand Lodge Charity Fund the sum of $10,451.72.

734

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

The following is an account of a deserved testimonial to a friend and brother :
The special committee to procure a monument to be placed over the remains of
our esteemed and.M. ·. W. ·.Bro. HENRY VEHSLAGE, report their duties complete.
On the 27th day of ,January, 1896, by invitation of the committee, I proceeded
with them to the cemetery at Irvington and unv.,iled the monument without
elaborate ceremony, deeming it unwise to assemble the brethren in the open air
and subject them to the inclemencies of the weather at this time of the year. The
monument is a credit to the donors and in accordance with that simplicity which
dominated the hfe of our brother, whose last resting place it marks as a graceful
tribute of the love, esteem and affection of those with whom he was for so many
years and so intimately associated. The inscription is as follows:M.
HENRY VEHSLAGE, D. D.,
GRAND MAsTER OF MASONS IN NEW JERSEY,
1883-1884.

w.

This monument has been erected by the Grand Lodge of F. and A. M. of New
Jersey as a testimonial to a good man, an honored brother and a faithful Mason,
We note in the report of the Committee on Grand Lodge Charity Fund the
item: Donation to reimburse Grand Lodge of California in case of Bro. J. E. BALL,
$156.00.
In our opinion the Grand Lodge acted wisely when it indefinitely postponed
the fqllowing resolution :ReBolved, That it is the sense of the Grand Lodge that the use of robes or
costumes in conferring the degrees of Symbolic Masonry is an innovation, and is
hereby prohibited in this jurisdiction.

And once again, my brethren, we have to face that fearful question of the
invasion of the jurisdiction of friends and brethren. The Committee on Grand
Master's Address report as follows :Second. In regard to the communication from the M. ·. W. •. Grand Lodge of
Colorado, your committee would recommend that no action be taken bv the Grand
Lodge. They do not believe that it would be proper Masonic courtesy to invade
the jurisdictions of the M. ·• W. ·. Grand Lodge of Virginia and the District of
Columbia for a purpose however laudable in itself. New Jersey would not be
backward in takmg part in any ceremonies in honor of the memory of Worshipful
Bro. GEORGE WASHINGTON upon receipt of an invitation from the M. ·. W. ·. Grand
Lodges of the jurisdiction in who~e territory such ceremonies must necessarily take
place.
Which, we think, is a cold shake for Colorado.
The receipts, as per report of Grand Secretary, were $10,196.59, and the die.
bursemente for the year $9,637.19.
The Salary of the Grand Secretary was increased to $2,000.
The Grand Lodge
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Grand Lodge that the public installation of
officers of Lodires is contrary to the spirit and teachings of the Fraternity, and is
hereby prohibited.

Bro. GEORGE B. EDWARDS submits the Report on Cprrespondence-a very full
and comprehensive review of the doings of sixty-one Grand Lodges, seven of them
for two years.
Under Alabama, referring to the publication of the Ritual, Bro. EDWARDS
eaye:N o calamity during the present century has been fraught with more momentous
consequences to the Craft.

1896.J

GTand Lorlge of California.

735

He quotes fully from Bro. PILLANS, and is in thorough sympathy with him in
condemnation of all cipher inventions.
Bro. EDWARDS' review of California is for the administration of Bro. Grand
Master ORME, from whose Address he quotes fully and gives it hie general approval.
He also commends the reports of the Committee on J urieprudence and the Address
of the Grand Orator, R.·. W.-. NILES SEARLS.
For kind words this Correspondent returns thanks to Bro. EDWARDS.
M.-.
GEORGE W. FoRTMEYER was elected Grand Master; R.·. W.·. THOMAS
H. R. REDWAY was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence: w.·. GEORGE B. EDWARDS, Jersey City.

w.-.

NEW MEXICO.
An Emergent Communication of the Grand Lodge of New Mexico was held at
Gallup November 22, 1894, for the purpose of consecrating and constituting Lebawn Lodge, No. 22, and installing its officers.

A second Emergent Communication was held at Albuquerque June 8, 1895, for
placing the corner-stone of the Masonic Hall in course of erection in that city.

A third Emergent Communication was held June 24, 1895, for the purpose of
dedicating the hall of Ohapmn,n Lodge, No. 2, in the new Masonic Temple at Las
Vegas. The attendance was large and the procession led by an escort of Santa Fe
Commandery of Knights Templar. An address was delivered by the acting Grand
Master, M. ·• W.·. MAX FROST. The ceremonies were elaborate and successfully
performed. The exercises concluded with a reception, ball and banquet at the
Montgomery Hotel at Las Vegas Hot Springs.

The Grand Lodge held its eighteenth Annual Communication in the city of
Albuquerque October 7, 1895,-M.-. W.·. J ••J. KELLY, Grand Master, R.·. W.·.
ALPHEUB A. KERN, Grand Secretary. The Grand Lodge of New Mexico have
enrolled twenty-one Lodges with a membership of eight hundred and eighty-three
Master Masone. Fifteen Lodges were represented at this Communication. Seven
Paet Grand Masters were in attendance, with one Past Deputy, four Past Grand
Wardens and a Past Grand Treasurer, and the Representatives of eleven sister
Grand Jurisdictions.
,,.,
Portraits of Past Grand Masters A. H. MOREHEAD and F. H. KENT are published in this volume.
The Grand Master declared the Grand Lodge opened for the dispatch of business, and due proclamation thereof was made by the Grand Marshal. The Granu
Master extended a fraternal welcome to the brethren and invoked the blessing of
the Supreme Architect upon their deliberations. He reported the condition of the
jurisdiction as harmonious and flourishing. He had divided tbe Lodges into six
Districts and appointed District Deputies in charge. The Grand Master made
some visitations in person and others by proxy. He submitted the Wisconsin
proposition and spoke with confidence of the successful establishment of the Home
for Consumptives at Santa Fe.
The receipts of the jurisdiction for the year were $1,002.00; disbursements,
'737.98.

736

Proceedings of the

(Oct. 15,

The Grand Lodge dedicated the new hall of Temple Lodge, No: 6, in the presence of a large assemblage, A procession was formed and proceeded_to the hall,
where the ceremonies were performed by the M.·. W. •. Grand Master.
The Grand Lodge declined to pay mileage to members. The Gtand Lodge declined to pass the Wisconsin proposition for the dissemination of relief, hut adopted
a similar resolution and referred it to the Lodges for their action, report to be made
at the next Annual Session.
The Grand Lecturer reported his work for the year. The Grand Lodges of
Oklahoma and of Victoria were recognized a11 regularly constituted and legal Grand
Lodges, and a cordial welcome extended to them as members of the Masonic family of Grand Lodges.
The Report on Correspondence is again presented by Bro. •MAX FROST, who
reviews the proceedings of fifty-three Grand Lodges. His quotations are very full,
making the report an excellent digest of the doings of all the Grand Lodges.
Under California, Bro. FROST reviews the administration of Grand Master
ORl.ni:, quoting liberally from his Address, but he dislljtl'ees with the doctor in his
tender treatment of non-affiliates. Our doctor or Grand Master having objected
to the practice of subjecting a non-affiliute to the dangers of a second. ballot as
unwise and unjust, Bro. FRosT says:
I disagree with him. A Mason becomes a non-affiliate either because he has a
fancied grievance against the institution, or some members thereof, or becaus.e he
has lost R"eneral intereat. In either case, as far as I am concerned, I prefer him a
non-affiliate than, for instance, a member of the Lodge I belong to. He cannot
in the nature of things do any good. I think the question of non-affiliates is ~t
settled by being left alone.
We can't agree on that proposition, Bro. FROST. We prefer to see every Mason
where he should be, a member of some Lodge, and we would remove every unnecessary barrier to accomplish that most desirable result.
Bro. FaosT quotes fully from our Committee on Jurisprudence upon the .W is·
consin proposition and the Mississippi rules. He also notes our loss in the death
of our two Past Grand Masters.
Bro. FROST notes from the Grand Master of Illinois the fact that out of fottyfive Grantl Lodges in the United States sixteen recognize the law of perpetual
jurisdiction, while twenty-nine do not. When will our brethren yield to the will
of the majority for the harmony of the whole!
M.·. W.·. JAMES H. WROTH was elected Grand Master; B.-. W.-. ALPHEUS A.
K.&EN was re-elected Grand Secretary_ Chairman of Correspondence, MAX FROST,
Santa Fe.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
The United Grand Lodge of New South Wales held a Special Communication
in the city of Sydney August 23, 1894, for the installation of the M.-. W.·. The
Provincial Grand Master, Sir JOSEPH PALMER ABBOTT.
A Quarterly Communication was held in Sydney September 12, 1894. Grand
Lodge was opened by the R-•• W.-. THOMAS E. SPENCER, Deputy Grand Master.
The usual routine business was transacted. " The Board of General Purpose& "
reported, also the "Grand Inspector of Workings." After a<ition upon· the financial reports Grand Lodge closed.

Grand Lodge of California.

1896.]

737

A second Quarterly was held in Sydney December 12, 1894. The Grand Lodge
THOMAS E. SPICNOEB, Deputy Grand Master.
was opened in due form by
The Board of General Purposes reported. The usual routine business was transacted.

R.-. W.-.

A third Quarterly was held at Sydney March 18, 1895. The Grand Lodge was
THOMAS E. SPKNOEB, Deputy Grand Master_
opened in due form by

R.-. W.-.

B.-.

W. ·• Deputy
A second .Special was held in Sydney March 21, 1895. The
Grand Master, after the opening of the Grand Lodge, made tile folttlwing ann<iuncement :We have been called toitether to perform a melancholy duty, for, as you are all
aware, we have to ofticially record the death of our head, the Most Worshipful
Grand Master, in accordance with the Constitution, which sad event took place
last Friday. Our late lamented Grand Master, Most Worshipful Brother SirRoBRRT D UFF, did not come amon~t us as a stranger but as an old and distinl!Uished brother Freemason. Our esteemed brother was one of the found~rs of the
Provincial Grand Lodge of Kincardineshire, and he was nominated by Moet Worshil'fal Bro. LoRn KrNTORIC, afterwards the Grand Master of South Australia, to
be Provincial Grand ];laster Depute of Kincardineshire, on aocount of his long
official connection with Freemasonry in Banffshire.
After remarks from various brethren Grand Lodge closed.
A third Special wa.s held in Sydney June 11. 1895, for the nomination of Grand
Lodge Officers for 1895-6.
A fourth Quarterly was held June 12, 1895_ Grand Lodge was opened by

R.-. W.•• THOMAS E. SPICNOKR, Deputy Grand Master. Reports were presented

from the Board of General Purposes, the Inspector of Workings, the Board of
Benevolence, and the Committee on Foreign Correspgndence. An election of officers w:is held and the Deputy Grand Master delivered an Address, the conclusion
of which is as follows :
In conclusion, I wish to state that in all the Lodges visited by myself in company with the Grand Lodge Officers, I have been pleased with the marked improvement in the working, the tendency towards increasing economy in the matter
of refreshments, and I have been especially gratified at the cordial expressions of
loyalty and goodwill towards this Grand Lodge. I trust such cordial good-feeling
ma:y long continue to exist, and that the Officers of Grand Lodge may always do
their utmost, by example and precept, to foster such a feeling.

The return of Lodges and members show a total of two hundred and nineteen
Lodges, with a membership of 7,698 members.
From the Report of Proceedings of sister Grand Lodges ~e note the review of
California under the administration of Grand Master ORME. The Address is
largely quoted from and the doings of the Grand Lodge commended.
A fourth Special (a Lodge of Sorrow) was held June ZT, 1895, for the purpose
of paying the last sad tribute of respect to the remains of Past Deputy Grand
FBANOI8 BURNAUD DAVIDSON.
Master, the

B.-. w.-.

12

738

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

A fifth Special wasiheld in Sydney J ulv 1, 1895, for the insta.llation of officers.
The Grand Lodge we.a opened in Due Form by R. •• W. ·• THOMAS E. SPENCER,
Grand Master.
The Grand Master-elect, M.•• W. ·• Bro. the Hon. Sir J Ollll:PH PALMER ABBOTI',
K C. M. G., M. P., having been presented, was obligated and installed as Grand
Master Mason of New South Wales, and proclaimed and saluted in the East, West
and South according to ancient custom.
The Grand Representatives were presented, and we note the name of Bro. C. G.
EWING as Representative of California.
Address of Grand Secretary, ARTHUR H. BRAY, Masonic Hall, Castlereagh
street, Sydney.
NEW YORK.
The Grand Lodge of New York held its one hundred and fifteenth Annual
Communication in the city of New York June2d, 1896,-M.·. W.·. JOHN STEWART,
Grand Master; R.·. W.•, EDWARD M. L. EHLERS, Grand Secretary.
Two elegant portraits, on steel, represent the preeent Grand Master, M. •• W. ·•
JOHN STEWART, and the M.·. W.·. Bro. OsOAR CoLEB, who was elected in 1850, at
which session we had the honor of voting for him.
The Grand Secretary's table of statistics give the number of Lodges at seven
hundred and thirty-seven; number represented at present seasion, seven hundred
and thirty ; number of deaths for past year, fifteen hundred and twenty-two ;
Master Masons, affiliated, 90,874.
The State is divided into thirty Masonic Districts, each under the supervision
of a District Deputy.
The representative of the Grand Lodge of New York near the Grand Lodge of
California is Pa6t Me.star WILLIAH LAB.KIN WOODROW, of Friend3hip, No. 210,
Sau Jose. Eleven Past Masters and the representatives of fifty-four Grand
Jurisdictions were in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the Grand Master, with
prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master of New Jersey, accompanied by six Past Grand Masters
and the D eputy Grand Master and Junior Grand Warden of Pennsylvania, were
recei•ed with the customary honors.
IJrand Master STEWART delivered his Annual Address. He congratulated the
brethren, as the representatives of more than ninety thousand Masons, upon the
general prosperity and the auspicious circumstant'011 under which they have
assembled.
The Grand Master reported the names of fourteen brethren who had retained
high rank in the Craft and who had been called to rest. Among them we note the
names of R.·. W.·. EDWARD B. HARPER, President of the Trustees of the Hall and
Asylum Fund; M.· . W.·. JoHN HoDGJ~, Past Grand Master, and R.·. W. ·• ELY S.
PARKEB, Past Master of Lodge 527, and since Past Grand Orator of the Grand
Lodge of Illinois. Bro. PARKER was an intensely interesting character. He was
a full blooded Indian, a grand nephew of Red Jacket, and was Chief of the Senecas.
He resided for a time in Galena, Ill., and there became acquainted with General
GRANT, upon whose staff he served as Private Secretary, attaining the rank of
Brigadier-General. It was he who copied the surrender of Lu at Appomattox
from the pencil draft made by GRANT. He was as brl\ve as his celebrated uncle,
and also as eloquent.
The Grand Master paid an"eloqnent and affectionate tribute to the memory of

1896.]

Grarul, Lodge of <JaUforn:ta.

139

the deceased brethren whose names had been entered upon the death roll of the
year for the consideration of the usual comu1ittee. He reported the ceremonial
observances of the year; also his official visitations to the various districts. Of
their finances, he says :- ·
The condition of the Masonic Hall and As~lum Fund cannot fail to be most
ptifying to you all. With over $41,000 in its General Fund and over $189,000 in
its reserve, nearly all of which is safely invested in bond and mortgage-a total of
over $230,000-the future of the Home would appear to be assured.
In this connection we quote from the report of Bro. Grand Secretary EHLEBs;,
who, writing of the Home, says:The brother who, more than fifty years ago, while filling the office of Grand
Seoretary, evolved the idea of building a ha.11 in this city out of the revenues of
which should be erected and maintained a home for the indigent brother, the
deatitute widow and the helpless orphan, "builded better than he knew.'' Among
the one hundred a.nd fifty-one inmates of our Home is the daughter of the founder
of the Hall s.nd Asylum Fund.
The receipts of Grand Lodge for the year ending December 31, 1895, were
$74,071.90.
The cost of the Home and appurtenances, to date, is given, as itemized, at
$267,958.34. An addition is now being made, to be completed on or before the
15th of October, 1896, called the "Memorial Building," the entire cost of which
will be $32,551. Accommodation will be provided in the "Memorial Building"
for about sixty children, besides servants and teachers ; thus relieving the present
building and providing additional accommodations for adults, apart from the great
advantage of having the children separate entirely. The space thus made available
in the present building, together with the eight new rooms arranged in old dining·
room, will accommodate about fifty adults.
Superintendent ANTHONY says in his report :Six years have passed since the Trustees placed before the Grs.nd Lodge plans
for the Home Building at an approximate cost of '150,000. There was in bank
1185,000 to meet the expenditure. To-day the Fraternity be.a a magnificent Home,
in which one hundred and ninety-five persons have been maintained in comfort,
and upon which more than $267,000 has been expended, and there is in bank and
securities over $231,000 for its support and enlargement.
The Committee on Antiquities, among the additions to their collection during
the year, report the receipt of the apron worn by LAFAYETTE when Knighted In
Mqrton Commandery, No. 4, in the city of New York in the year 1824.
The Board of Relief publish an excellent detailed report, in which we note an
item of $15, furnished two brethren from California. Hope they returned it.
The Grand Secretary presented the petition of He:rkimer Lodge, No. 423, to
keep in its archives the old warrant of Amicable Lodge, No. 36, formerly located at
Herkimer; which request we think both natural and reasonable, when we con·
sider the history of "that charter." The late REEB G. WILLIAMS, in the early
history of Freemasonry in central New York, says of Amicable Lodge:April 6, 1792, the Grand Lodge of New York issued a warrant to establish a
Lodge in Herkimer County. It was constituted by the name of Arnicable Lodge,
and located in New Hartford from 1792to1799, inclusive. The following members
were admitted to the privileges of the LoJge in 1792: Jedediah Sanger, Jared
Crittenden, Isaac Jones, Jonas Platt, Arthur Breese, Benjamin Merrills, Elias
Kane, Jessee Woodruff, ~vane Wharry, Seth Ranney, Abijah Putnam and Michael
Myers.

740

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

'
Bro. WILLIAMS continued his list of members admitted to the privileges of the
Lodge down to and including the year 1799-a reminder of the familiar fa.milv
names of the elders in central New York a.bout the "thirties."

The first officers of the Lodge were John J • .Morgan, J obn Post and Micha.el Myers.
As these men took a leading pa.rt in the affairs of this portion of the State, It is fitting
for a moment to dwell upon the ma.in features of their lives.
John Jordan Morgan, the first Master of the Lodge, was born In the city of New
York November 7, 1768. He was the ilon of John Morgan and Mary DeLa.ncey, bis
wife. John Morgan wa.s a native of Wales and a sea captain. He intended bis ~on
for the British navy, bnt his intention was frustrated by the breaking out of the War
of the Revolution. John J. Morgan was a lifelong resident of New York. He was
twice married. His first wife was Catharine Warne of Jamaica, Long Island. Some
time after her death and the death of their child, be married Eliza Baldwin of Cork,
Ireland. After bis second marriage he adopted a niece of his first wife. She BS811med
the name of Morgan, and in 1826 Catharine Morgan was married to J oho Adams Dix,
then a yonng artillery officer and aid-de·camp to .Major·General Jacob Brown of the
United Sta.tee Army. In 1822 John J. Morgan was elected from New York City as
Representative in the Congress of the United States. He served in the Assembly of
the State, and also as Collector for the Port of New York.
In private life he was a scholar of rare accomplishments. He spoke and wrote
the French langna.ge with ease and fiuency. In domeslio and social life he had the
manners and courtesy of the gentleman or an age alto~ether pBSeed. He was an
ornament to the society in which he moved. Io his 1·elig1ous life he was a commnni·
cant of Trinity chnrch, New York, and served as vestryman for many years,
He was a large land holder in Oneida, Herkimer and other counties of New York.
He held them under patent of the State. It was a matter or pride with him to say
that he was the first white man who owned these lands after they bad been sold by
the Indians, and hie descendants are still in polll!es1ion of the original docnments
which note the transference of these lands to him.
He built a snmmer residence between the towns of Clarkville and New Berlin, and
gave it the name of ·" The Unadilla." For thirty or forty years he spent his snmmers
there. He died at Port Chester, while visiting his son·ln·law, General Dix, and .was
buried in the family vanlt, Trinity church yard, New York.
John Post, the first Senior Warden of the Lodge, son of Elias and .Maria Post, was
born December 28, 174.8. He was married Jannary 7, 1776, to .Ma.rgarietji Bellinger.
There were born to them eleven children: John, Jr. Maria, who died in infancy,
·Maria, Frederick, Catharine, Elias, Deborah, Cataline, Eliza.beth, Helen and Rebecca.
Elias Post, his father, after an eventful life, WAS found dead in his bed by bis son
John and Baron Stenben, who was an intimate friend of the family. His wife was the
da.nghter of Colonel Bellinger, who was an aid to General Nicholas Herkimer, and
fought at Oriskany.
John Post was a stalfofficer in the Revolutionary War. He took part in the snr·
render of General Burgoyne and in the expedition of Sullivan. He was present at
the Battle of Jilonmontb, and also at the surrender of General Cornwallis, which
virteally closed the war.
In 1790, in connection with a Mr. Martin of Schenectady, he engaged in trade with
the Six Nations. He pnrcba.sed large qna.ntltles of ginseng, which he exported to
China, it being snpposed at that time a remedy for the plague. After his removal to
Utica, later in that year, he still contlnned dealing with the Indians, and was the
first merchant in the place. About this time he established a line of stage boats on
the Mohawk River, to run between Albany and Utica. These boats were styled
" The Accommodation" and the "Diligence." For the times they were regarded as
comfortable and very useful oonveyanoes. They fnrnished room for twenty passen·
gers and were propelled by° means of poles, and though remarkable for their day,
thev furnish a marked contra.st to the splendid steamers of our modern commerce,
which show our national progress. He also established a line of freight boats,
which during the season of navigation were employed in carrying produce to Sche·
nectady and bringing back merchandise.
Previous to his settlement in Utica he had purchased near the Mohawk River,
land on which be caused a log honse to be bnilt. This was on the east side of what
is to-day Ueoesee street, and near the corner of Whitesboro street. At first he kept
his goods in his honse, but in 1791 he bnilt a store on the corner of Genesee and
Whitesboro streets. In this store he carried on for many years an extensive trade
with the Indians and white settlers. He extended his business to Floyd, .Manlins
and New York, and became a man of wealth. He served as first postmaster in the
village of Utica, and held the office for many years. On Joly 13, 1792, he purchased
from the representatives of General Bradstreet 89l acres of land-known as Lot

1896.J

Grand Lodge of OaJAjornia.

741

No. 95 in the Cosby Manor. This land now includes the very heart of onr presenl
city of Utica.
.
On Jnne 5, 1805, a petition from John Post and others, residing in Utica and
vicinity, County of Oneida, was received, recommended by Amicable Lodge, No. 23,
to- establish a Lodge of Master Masons in the village of Utica. The Grand Lodge of
New York granted the petition. Oneida Lodge was coustitnted and John Post became
its first Master, and held the office for several years.
In 1806 he took into partnership his son-in-law, Giles Hamlin, who pnrchased a
large stock of merchandise. A fire. broke out and destroyed his property, and in a
few moments swept away his wealth, leaving him a bankrnpt. Shortly after this he
removed to Maolins, where he re•ided until his death, which took place December 5,
1830. He was buried at Jamesville, near Manlius.
Michael Myers, theJnniorWarden of the Lodge, was born at Elizabeth, N. J.,
(formerly Anville,) February 1, 1753. He came to Herkimer with a company of
soldiers from New Jersey. At the battle of Johnstown, in 1781, be was seriously
wounded in the leg, crippling him for life. His brother Mathew, who was associated
with him, was killed in the battle.
In person General Myers was dignified and of aristocratic bearing, and a man of
marked ability. Aft.er the close or the war he remained at Herkimer-there be
married (Jatbarine, the eldest daughter of Captain Henry Harter. She was born in
Febrna.ry, 1758, at the village of Presoott, Canada, where her parents bad been
ta.lien as prisoners in the French and Indian wars. While residing at Herkimer there
were born five sons and three dangbters: Peter M., Henry, Nancy, Catharine,
Ma.thew, Michael, John and Margaret, the last of whom is still living at Little Falls
at the ripe age of eigbty·seveo.
He ver.v soon became largely Interested in the parchase of real estate in the
village of Herkimer and surrounding country, and became the owner of the homestead of his father-in-law. He was alRo the owner of a few slaves who lived on his
estate notil the time of his death. He was by far the most prominent man and
leading character in this pa.rt of the State. In 1790 he was a member of the AeRembly from Montgomery County, and in 1791 he was the first and only member from
the new county of Herkimer. In 1796 he was a member of the State Senate which
office he held for fonr years. In 1791 he was the first judge of Herkimer co'nnty, a
position which he also held in 1794.
March 5, 1794. the Grand Lodge of New York issued a warrant for holding Amica·
ble Lodge, No. 36, in the village or Herkimer, of which Michael Myers was the first
Master, and held the office for many years.
After a long and useful career in pnbllc and Masonic life, he died on Febrnary
17, 1814, at Herkimer, and was buried at that place. In the year 1887 bis remains
and those of bis family that were buried there were removed to Oak Hill Cemetery
which has lately been consecrated as the resting place of the dead of Herkimer.
'
The Committee on Deceased Brethren made an eloquent report, containing
touching tributes of respect and affection to their associates in Grand Lodge-Bros.
EDWARD BABOOM HABPRR, HERMAN G. CABTER, Rev. Dr. CHARLES H. HALL and
Past Grand MBBter JOHN HODGE. They recommended that a page in the proceedings of the Grand Lodge, suitably inscribed, be set apart to the memory of the
illustrious dead.
The Committee on Exemplification of Work, as presented by the R.·• W. ·• JOHN
R. POPE, respectfully reported the same to be in conformity with the standard
work of the Grand Lodge, and complimented the Worshipful brother for his able
rendition thereof.
The new Constitution was finally adopted.
Bro. Past Grand Master JESSE B. ANTHONY, as Chairman of the Committee,
presents his eighth Annual Report on Correspondence, a paper fully equal to preceding reports. His introduction makes feeling mention of a former associate,
R.·. W.·. JOHN F. CoLLINB, who had rested from his labors, and BS a new associate
for the translation of foreign papers introduces W. ·• Bro. ERNEST RINGRR. The
review ie an exhaustive one. First, of the Grand Lodges of the United Sta.tee;
aecond, of Masonry in the Dominion of Canada ; and third, of the Foreign Grand
Lodges of the world a.nd the proceedings of the Masonic Congress held at Antwerp
in June, 1894.

742

Proceedings of the

[Oct: 15,

His notice of California is of the administration of Grand Master STEVl!.NS,
from whose Address he quotes with approval the tribute to the memory of Past
Grand Mastere JOHN M. BROWNE and WILLIAM C. BELCHER, and alsu commends
the action of Grand Lodge in the fulfillment of its trust.in the case of Master
WALTER CAREY WILC10X in an article beaded "The Gathering of the Fruit."
Bro. ANTHONY notes the legislation of Grand Lodge and especially commends
its action in the distribution of charity and in its "Home" preparations. He
says, in answer tu an expresaion of surprise, that the Grand Lodge of New
York, with its seven hundred Lodges, its great financial interests, including the
management of the Home, should be able to open, transact its business and clooe
in forty-eight hours, that it's all owing to organization and the application of businesa methods.
Under Idaho, Bro. ANTHONY quotes with commendation these living words of
the Grand Orator : "If you love your friend let him know it while living."
We are in accord with his endorsement of Bro. RoBBrNS, of Illinois, in bis
flpposition to prescribing "additional qualifications for candidates," and hold, with
him, that it is a matter to be determined by the members of each Lodge.
Under Maine, Bro. ANTHONY is in accord with Bro. DRUHMOND concerning
"uniform rules of jurisdiction "-that the adoption of a uniform time by all Grand
Lodges, during which the effect of a rejection * * * to be in force, leaving to
each jurisdiction the responsibility of requiring "due inquiry " to be made, in
accordance with the law, is the simplest and best solution of the whole question.
To which we respond, Amen.
Under Mississippi, we are in accord with Bro. ANTHONY in the following:The Grand Master had exercised " the hi\!:h power in him vested " by conferring
the degrees of Masoney at sight upon Capt. GEORGE MAD".HELL, Master of a BritiHh
steamship and as we read the account and the reasons given therefor, we must be
include.d ~mong those who question the propriety thereof. We will not argu~ the
point as to this being an an~ient right beloniring to a GI'l!'nd Master. We. beheye,
however that the constitutions of the present day prescribe the only way m which
a man should be made a Mason, and that the Grand Master, as well as the brethren,
should conform thereto.
M... w.·. JOHN STEWART was re-elected Grand Master; R .·. W.·. EDWARD
M. L. EHLERS was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence: Past Grand Master JESSE B. ANTHONY, Utica.
NEW ZEALAND.

The Grand Lodge of "Ancient Free and Accepted Masons " of New Zealand
held its half yearly communication for 1895 on the 30th of October,- M. •• W. ••
FRANCIS HENRY DTLLON BELL, Grand Master, presiding, R. ·. W.'. Bro. WILLIAM
RoNALDSON, Grand Secretary. There were present many visiting brethren, with
the Mastera, Past Masters and Wardens of the Lodges of the jurisdiction.
Grand Lodge opened in Ample Form, with solemn prayer. Statements of re·
ceipts and disbursements for the half year were read and submitted.
From the Report of the Board of Benevolence :MASONIC W m ows' AND ORPHANS' .FuND.-Your Board, recognizing the desirability of increasing this Fund~ such an amount as would enable_it to ful!'ll the
object for which it was founded, mstructed the Grand Secretary to issue a circular
letter to Lodges, suggesting that they take steps with a view to augment the Fund
by such means as may appear to them beet calculated to attain that obj~ct. The
answers to the circular which have reached the Board have been very sat1Sfactory.

1896.J

Grand Lodge of California.

743

Several Lodges at once voted a donation to the Fund ; others are preparin~ to
assist in other ways. The Lodges in Wellington City have decided to hold a umted
ball on the 8th October, which is being heartily supported by the brethren.
From the Report of the Board of General Purposes :RETURN OF ORIGINAL CHARTERS.-Actuated by an earnest desire to, if possi-

ble, bring about a restoration of complete fraternal amity between the different
Constitutions working in this Colony, the Board has heartily concurred in the proposal made by the It!.·. W.·. Grand Master that he should be authorized to remove
the last semblance of excuse for grievance on the part of the Mother Constitutions
against Grand Lodge, by returning the original charters unconditionally. The
Board feels that in making this concession in regard to what is considered are its
legal and Masonic rights, !10 loss of rugnity is involved, and no danger incurred.
Grand Lodge is nuw sufficiently strong to be under no afprehension of its interests
or those of any of its Lodges suffnring by the return o the charters, even if any
attempt Rhould be made to use any of them in an injurious manner. The Board
hopes, however, that no such attempt will be ma.de, but that the return of the
charters will be accepted by the Mother l; rand Lodges and their officers in the
same spirit as it is made. In each case a request has bePn preferred that the original charter may, after cancellation, be returned to the Lodge as a memento of the
source from which it sprung. As several Lodges have retained their own charters
in preference to leaving them in the custody of Grand Lodge, the Board would
earnestly request each such Lodge to now retnm its original charter to the Grand
Lodge which issued it, either directly_to the Representative of such Grand Lodge
or through the M. ·• W. ·• the Grand Master.
Grand Lodge closed in Ample Form with solemn prayer at 9:45 P. M.
M.·. W .., Bro. FRANCIS HENRY DILLON BELL, Grand Master; Bro. B.-. W. '.
Rev. WILLIAM RoNALDSON, Grand Secretaey.
NORTH CAROLINA.

The Grand Lodge of North Carolina held its one hundred and ninth Annual
Communication in the city of Raleigh January 14, 1896,-M.'. W.·. FRANCIS M.
Mon, Grand Master, R.·. W.·. JOHN C. DREWRY, Grand Secretary. One hundred and eighty-four of the two hundred and ninety Lodftell in the jurisdiction
were represented. The Representatives of sixteen sister Grand Lodges were present, including the R. •. W. '. brother who responds for California. There were
present four Past Grand Mastera, one Past Grand Warden and two Past Grand
Secretarie.s. The jurisdiction numbers ten thousand Master Masons. One hundred and seventy-one names were inscribed on the death roll of the year.
Portraits of Past Grand Masters ALONZO T. Jl!.NKINS, Grand Master in 185051-1>2; GEORGE W. BLOUNT, Grand Master in 1874-5, and JOHN W. CO'ITl!.N,
Grand Master in 1893-4, are published in this volume.
. The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Fonn, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain. The Grand Master delivered bis Annual Address, giving -the assembled
brethren a hearty greeting and a welcome to the labors of the 8088ion. He indulgP.<l in a retrospective view of the history of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina and reminded them that they were the proud representatives of the same grand
principles which -prompted their illustrious predecessors to call it into existence
one hundred and t wenty-five years ago. He said the Fraternity had enjoyed a
reasonable degree of prosperity and made substantial progress the past year. Six
new Lodges had been established and seven old ones revived and were again
marching on. He says he has felt it hie duty, for the good of Masonry, to discourage the formation of new Lodges, preferring to expend all his efforts in restoring
to usefulness such of the old veterans as gave promise of future vitality. The
Grand Master paid loving tribute to the honored dead of their own kindred and

744

ProceedingB of the

[Oct. 15,

brethren, and extended the fraternal sympathy of the Grand Lodge of North
Carolina to sister Grand Lodges who had felt the same heavy hand.
The Grand Master had not been called upon to render any deoieions which he
considered sufficiently important to submit for consideration. He had refused to
grant several applications for dispensations to ballot on petitions in less than the
etatutury time.
The Grand Master made a fervent appeal for aid for the Oxford Orphan Asy.
lnm, "in which he said is centered the hopes, the aapiratione and the pride of the
Masone of North Carolina."
Five Special Communications had been held during the year for the placing of
corner-stones and the celebration of Saint John's day. The Grand Master said:
It is believed by some intelli~ent members of the fraternity that it would be
wise to encourage and aid the ladies of our Masonic families in organizing Eastern
Star Chapters, not only for the pleasure it wuuld afford them but because of the
valuable aesistanC'3 they could render us from the increased interest they would
naturally feel in our orphan work.
The Chairman of Committee on Correspondence sent his regrete in lieu of his
expected report, and place& the blame for hie failure upon "the demands made
upon the time of a country doctor." The Grand Lodge received the excuse but
"made no sign." Grand Lodge took the following action upon the invitation of
the Grand Lodge of Colorado to unite in the observance of the centennial of the
death of Bro. GEORGE WASHINGTON :y our committee, appointed to consider the propriety of being represented at
the W ashington memorial observance to be held in 1899, respectfully report that
the Grand Lodge of North Carolina should be represented in the persons of its
elective officers, and take part in these interesting ceremnnies ; that we as a Grand
Jurisdiction may keep en rapport with our sister Grand Jurisdictions in this country, in honoring that patriot and eminent patron of Masonry, who was " first in
war, first in peace and first in the hearts of his countrymen."
Theref<Yre be it Ruol'Vfd, That a committee of three be appointed to hke the
matter under consideration and report at the next meeting of this Grand Lodge
what arrangements are necessary to be made, and the probable cost of representation.
Twenty-one Lodges are returned by the Grand Secretary as having paid no
dues for 1895.
M.'. W.-. FBANOIB M. Mou was re-elected Grand Master; R.·. W.·. JOHN C.
DREWRY was re-elected Grand Secretary. CorrespondAnce, Bro. JoHN A. COLLINS, M. D., was appointed Chairman of thA Committee.
NORTH DAKOTA.

The Grand Lodge of North Dakota held its seventeenth Annual Communication
in the city of Fargo June 10, 1896,- M. •• W. ·.WM. H. BEST, Grand Master; R.·. W. ••
FRANK J. THOMPSON, Grand Secretary. Forty-two of the forty-four chartered
Lodges in the jurisdiction, with two under dispensation, were represented. Three
Paet Grand Masters were present, with the representatives of thirty sister Grand
Lodges. Bro. T HOMAS J. WILDER, of Cheney, representative of the Grand Lodge
of California near the Grand Lodge of North Dakota, was not present or accounted
for. Worshipful WM. M. PETRIE, of Sacramento, represents the Grand Lodge of
North Dakota near California.
The death roll for the year numbers fifteen brethren. The membership of the
jurisdiction is 2,535.
A portrait of M.·. W.·. WILLIAM H. BEST, Grand Master, ornaments the opening page of the volume.

1896.J

Grand Lodge of OaJ,ijornia.

745

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with· prayer by the Grand
Chaplain.
The Grand Master opened his Addreaa with an eloquent diaaertation upon the
•1111bject of What is Masonry? anu after pleasant greetings directed the attention
of the assembled brethren to the unusual number of illustrious names inscribed
upon the death rolls of our American Grand Lodges. Past Grand MasteN and
Grand Secretaries, who have written their names high upon the Masonic column,
have passed on that endless journey from whence none ever return, and we have
but the remembrance of their useful lives to console us for their loss.
The Grand Master issuAd dispensations for the formation of two new Lodges,
and bad received a third petition, which he referred to Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master says :I am firm in my opinion that the prerogative power of the Grand Master, so far
as it relates to the settin~ aside of any law or regulation of the Grand Lodge,
ahould be exercised only in cases of great emergency.
Among his decisions, the Grand Master held that in case of permanent removal
from the State, a Senior Warden might resign-which we think a ruling in accordance with good Masonic sense, as in formulating our organic law nearly fifty
yeard ago, we decided that vacancies might be created by death, resignation or
1Jemoval from the jurisdiction. We have ever since h1;ld that a Master or Warden
had as much right to resign as hA had to die or go away.
The Committee on Jurisprudence, however, we note, did not concur with Grand
Master BEST.
We notice no other decisions of general interest. Before closing his report, the
Grand Master says of their condition:·Returns from chartered Lodges all in. No grievances and appeals so far
reported. An increase in our finances. An increase in membership rmd the largest
annual gathering since the organization of this Grand Body. This, brethren, is an
index tu the condition of the Craft, and for which let us be truly thankful.
Grand Lodge adopted the Wisconsin relief rules. Amended, by &triking out
the words limiting the liability for expenditures in behalf of distressed Masons.
Grand Secretary THOMPSON is engaged in creating a "Grand Lodge Memberehip Registry." The undertaking involves much labor, but when completed to
be of great value to the Masons of North Dakota.
date,
The Committee on Necrology say of their own kindred and brethren, whose
names were inscribed upon the death roll of the year:-

wm

In our own jurisdiction we are called upon to mourn the loaa of fifteen of our
brethren; one in excess of last year. May the "Eye that never sleeps " watch
and guard over the bereaved ones in their sorrow and great affilction.
There is no Report on Correspondence.
M. ·• W. '. WILLIAM T. PKRKINB was elected Grand Maater ; R.·. W. ·. FBAl'K
J. THOMPSON was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Committee on Correspondence: M.·. W.·. FRANK J. THOMPSON, F argo.
NOVA. SCOTIA.

The Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia held its thirtieth Annual Communication at
Sydney c. B, June 12, 1895,- M.·. w.·. W ILLIAM F. MAoCoY, Grand Master;
B.·. W.·. WILLIAM Ross, Grand Secretary. Sixty-three chartered Lidges were
9'1>resented, out of a total of sixty-five in the jurisdiction. Ten sister Grand

746

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

Lodges were represented. California's representative, Rev. JAMES D. O'MEARA,
of Winnipeg, was not present. Nine Pa.st Grand Officers responded to roll call.
The sixty-five Lodges of Manitoba have a membership of 3,267 Master Masons.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with praycir by the acting
Grand Chaplain.
In his Address, the Grand Master referred, in terms eloquent with true fraternal
regard, to a visit made to bis neighbors, the Grand Lodge of New Brunswick. We
quote the following:-Fe~ling that it would be well that if the Masonic Craft in this and other juriM·

dictions of the Dominion could be drawn closer together, it would have a· most
beneficial effect, not only on the members of the Craft, but in supporting and
spreading that brotherly love and charity towards all men which are the grand
principles of our Order: one of my first official a.eta was in conjunction with Bros.
Cossmann and Swenerton to make a fraternal visit to the Grand Lodge of New
Brunswick, who received us most kindly and treated us royally. It was a very
great pleasure to me to be present at the conferring of the third degree upon
sa<eral brethren-and the manner in which it was given by the Most Worshipful
Grand Master, Dr. Walker, reflected great credit upon himself and honor upon the
Fraternity. Without exception, he is one of the finest ritualists that ever I had
the pleasure of meeting. On that occasion, we were introduced to the Grand
Lodge by our late di•tin!(uished Bro. Peters, a brother who conferred great benefits
upon this Grand Lodge at the time of its am ..luamation with the Provincial G. L .
of En11land. The kindness and courtesy ohown us, and the honors conferred upon
us bv the brethren of New Brunswick, will not soon be forgotten. I little thought
on that occasion, that that would be the last Lime that I would ever have the
p!easure of meeting our distinguished Bro. Peters, as he departed this life in
November la.st. On hearing of his death, I immediately telegraphed to the Most
Worshipful Grand Master of New Brunswick on behalf of the brethren of this
jurisdiction to place upon his coffin a ftoral wreath, which was kindly done, and I
regret exceeding that my private duti6s prevented me from being present at his
funeral.
Among the many special dispensations granted, we note the following, the first
as a reminder of "ye olden time," and the last showing tbat the brethren of Nova
Scotia insist that their apprentices, when placed in the North East corner, should
stand erect and upright, having the right use of their limbs, as a man ought to
have:April 4th. Two dispensations granted to Hiram Lodge, No.12, Yarmouth, to
confer the M. Ma.son's deJ!'l"ee on Bros. David Morrill and Joseph W. Morrill
within tbe time prescribed by the Constitution, both being sea captains and
called away on long voyages.
Had the captains been in Mississippi during the reign of Grand Master SPINKS
they could have been made at sight for Iese cause.
April 17th. Decision given to Can/IO Lodge, No. 79, that a candidate not being
able to stand erect and l"_e9Uirinir the assistance of a stick in walking should not be
balloted for and received into said Lodge.
This jurisdiction is divided into ten Districts, supervised by District Deputy
Grand Mastero. They also have a "Committee of Works," consisting of six,
appointed by the Grand Master.
Telegraphic congratulations were exchanged with the Grand Lodge of Nebraska.
The names of twenty-nine brethren who passed over the river during the year
weM inscribed upon the death roll and their virtues recorded in the archives of the
Grand·Lodge.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by B. ·. W. •. Bro. THOMAS B. FLINT
and W. ·. Bro, Rev. CHARLES E. WILLETS, D. C. L. The report is a joint produc-

1896.J

Grand Lodge of California.

747

tio11, California being reviewed by Bro. FLINT. The review is of the administration
of Past Grand Master ORME and is commendatory. He says:The Address of Grand Master M. ·. W. ·. Henry Sayre Orme covers a great deal
e1f ground, containing as it does a full and masterly review of the work done by the
Craft throughout his jurisdiction during thP. year, and many valuable and interesting suggestions and observations on Masonic points of more than local interE'st
and importance.
He commends the Grand Master for bis ZE'al and fidelity, a.s manifested in his
visitation of so large a number of his constituent Lodges, in the views expresseil in
his Address and in his decisions rendered during the year. He makes a sympathetic allusion to the loss of our eldest and youngest Past Grand Masters.
Of our genexal legislation he writes :A perusal of the Report of the Committee on Grievances and Appeals, and t hose
of the Committee on Jurisprudence, has given us a high opinion, not only of the
jndustry, Masonic learning and zeal of the members of these important bodies, but
of their anxiety to reach the most just and wisest conclusions possible upon the
many intricate and difficult questions submitted to them. On every question these
reports are full and valuable, some of them showing deep research and most -painstaking labor. The Grand Lodge of California has, however, always been rich in
able and experieoced Masonic jurists, among whom the late lamented A. G. Aooll
recur• to our memory.
The committee give an able and impartial review of the doings of sixty-one
Grand Lodges.
M.·. W.·. WILLIAM F. MAoCoY, Q. C., was re-elected Grand Master; B.·. W.·.
WILLIAM Ross was re-elected Grand Secretary.
'
Committee on Correspondence: W. ·. Bro. THOMAS B. FLINT and R ev. C. E.
WILLLET.
OHIO.
The Grand Lodge of Ohio held its eighty-sixth Annual Communication in the
city of Springfield October 23, 1895,-M.·• W. ·• CARROLL F. CLAPP, Grand Master,
B.·. w.·. J. H. BROMWELL, Grand Secretary. The Grand Lodge of Ohio bears
upon her roll five hundred Lodges, with a membership of 39,906 MastAr Masons.
Twelve Past Grand Masters were present, with two Past Grand Deputies and the
IJtepresentatives of four hundred and eighty-five chartered Lodges. Twenty-nine
lepresentatives of sister Grand Jurisdictions were in attendance. The Worshipful JOHN WILBON CHAJtmEBLAIN, of Tiffin, represents the Grand Lodge of California near the Grand Lodge of Ohio.
A fine portrait (on steel) introduces M.·. W.'. CARROLL F. CLAPP, Grand Mas·
ter, to the reader.
A J..odge of Master Masons wa.8 opened in Due Form, the various Grand Officers filling the stations. An address of welcome, on behalf of the citizens of
Springfield, was delivered by Bro. WALTER L. WEAVKR, which was responded to
by the Grand Master.
Tbe Grani Master then delivered his Annual Address. With a Mason's welcome to faces familiar and identified with many years' service in the history of the
Grand Lodge of Ohio, he gives greeting to those who for the first time are in Grand
Lodge tn aid and assist in the representation of tl.e 40,000 Masons of Ohio; he in-Yoked the blessing of heaven upon their labors.
Before proceeding to the business of the session he reminded them of the absence of many brethren who would be wi~b them but for a summons to the great
beyond. He mentioned in sorrowful words the death of the Grand Treasurer, Bro.

748

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,
'

CHARLES BROWN, and also the departure of Bro. CHARLES MOORE G<>DFREY, Paet
Deputy Gra~d Master. He gave the history of their Masonic lives and paid loving
tribute to their memories. He also read frolD the death-roll of the year the names
of many illustrious brethren whose services in the cause of Masonry has placed
their names prominently before the Fraternity. We note among them the dear
friend of California, M.·. W.·. and Illustrious Bro. JOHN MILLS BROWNE.
Five dispensations were granted for the formation of new Lodges. Two charters of inert and inefficient Lodges were arrested. The corner-atone of Ohio City
Lodge, No. 486, was laid with the usual 11oppropriate ceremonies. Three new
Lodges were constituted and four Lodge halls dedicated t.o the purposes of Masonry.
Grand Master CLAPP makes the unapproachable report, for a jurisdiction of
the magnitude of Ohio, "that t:vt:r]/ Lodge -iin their juriadiction has been officiallu
'l/Uited during the ye111'," and that a written report of the true condition of each
Lodge ie now on file with the Grand Master. He eaye further : "The system of
Lodge visitations, established several years ago, has steadily improved year by
year, until it has reached out and accomplished what was claimed and expected of
it by its most sanguine promoters. Thie has not been accomplished, however,
without an increasing and detarmined effort upon the part of the District Lecturers as well as the Grand Lodge Officers."
Of his decisions the Grand Master says :I h11ove been called upon during the past year to answer a great many <_1.uestions
and inquiries regarding Masonic law and its applications. ~large majonty of the
q uestio'ns asked were fully covered by the dec1B1ons already m forcf', some of them
having been decided many times over. I have !'~deavored, however, ~ answer a!l
questions submitted from whatever source, reahzmg that t~e Code ~as ID a ch~~t1c
condition. I labored on patiently, hoping t_hat the °'?mm1ttee hav~ng. the rt'v1a1on
of the Code in charge would come to my relief early 10 the year wit~ it completed
and ready for distribution. In justice to the mem~ers of the .comouttee ~ ~hould
say that the revision of the Code was. a task not easily a?co1_nph!'hed ; but it is now
substantially finished, and proof copies are ready for d1str1but1on. Its complettlneas will, in a great measure, I trust, compensate for the delay.

We note Decision No. 15, which says :Held, that an applicant for degrees being blind i!l one _eye but other~i~e eligible, would not, because of such defect alone, be d1aqualifiea1 from rece1 vmg the
degrees of Freemasonry.
Cipher copies of the work are used in this jurisdiction. Harmony has been
restored between Ohio and Tennessee, who "fell out" on the Representative ques·
tion.
The Grand Master urged consideration and the utmost liberality in providing
for the necessary equipment of the Masonic Home, which will be dedicated at the
present session. He also recommended more liberality in the conditions imposed
upon the Eastern Star folks in the occupancy of Masonic Halla.
In the opinion of the Grand Master many Lodges were undertaking to exist
upon insufficient dues. He estimated that fully twenty.five per cent. were not
receiving sufficient income to be prosperous and healthy, and be commended the
subject to the earnest consideration of Grand Lodge.
An interesting ceremony was held by the presentation of a .Past Grand High
Priest's Jewel to Bro. HARVEY VINAL, a resident of Springfield, eighty-eight years
of age, and the oldest Ii ving Past Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter of
Roylll Arch Masons of Ohio. The presentation was made by Grand High Priest

1896.]

Grand LorJge of California.

749

Bro. J. H. BROMWELL, Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge. The venerable brother
!Dade a suitable and eloquent response.
M.·. w.·. Bro. J. w. STATON, Past Grand Master of Kentucky, was introduced
and welcomed to a seat in the East.
· The Committee on Jurisprudence concurred in the recommendation of the
Grand Master, and provided:That any organization known and designated as a Chapter of the Eastern Star,
when composed entirely of Masons under obedience to this Grand Lodge, and of
the wives, daughters and families of such Masons, may, with the consent of the
Grand Master and the consent of the Masonic bodies jointly occupying such Masonic halle, be permitted to use Masonic halle for festival and ceremonial purposes.
Jewels were ordered for all Paet Grand Masters, wbo have not received the
same, at a cost not to exceed one hundred dollars each. J ewela were also ordered
for the District Lecturers while in office, at a cost not to exceed fifteen dollars
each.
Grand Lodge resolved, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Juris·
prudence, that the dues of Lodges shall not be fixed at a lees sum than $2 per
capita.
DEDICA:rlpN OF THE OHIO MASONIO Hon.
The ceremonies were appointed for one o'clock P. M. of October 23d, and from
early morning delegations of citizens, Oommanderies, Chapters, Councils and
Lodges poured into the city of Springfield to participate in this noble and glorious
work. A proceasion was formed, the various Commanderiee acting as escort, with
the Grand Officers and Home Trustees in carriages, and the procession marched to
the Home grounds, where the building had been erected. An immense porch had
been erected, upon which were '!'athered the principal officers of all the Grand
Bodies, the Trustees of the Home and accompanying ladies.
Bro. J. H. BBOMWKLL, Secretary, read a report of the receipts and expendi·
tures. Following the reading of the report, Bro. JOHN M. STULL, the President
of the Board of Trustees, delivered an addrees to the M.·. W.·. Grand Master requesting him to consecrate and dedicate the Home to the ueee and purposes for
which it had been erected. The ceremonies of consecration and dedication then
followed, accompanied with appropriate music, and the exercises closed with an
Address by R. •. W. •• Bro. 0. P. SPKRBA, Grand Orator. In the words of Bro.
l}JioMWELL, Grand Secretary : And thus was dedicated by the Craft of Ohio a Masonic Home for the helpless
brethren and the widows and orphans of deceased brethren in this juriadict1ona monument to the noble tenets of our profession, and an incentive to practice
lirotherly love and relief.
The Report on Correspondence is again presented by Past Grand Master W.

M. $'.'DNNINGHAM, Chairman, who gives us one of the great reports of the Masonic
nation. He reviews with a master hand sixty-two American and Englidh speakinl{
Grand Lodges and ten who talk something elee. Bro. CUNNINGHAM writes and
"~ilhes" a moat complete paper, one that we delight to read and study, and we
paas it with this brief notice because we have lingered longer over the doings of
Grand Master CLAPP than we were warranted in doing at this time.
Bro. CUNNINGHAM'S notice of California is for Grand Master 0BM:R:'B administration, whose acts generally meet hie approval, and whose address he pronounces
"a Masonic paper of much interest." He notes with fraternal interei1t the death
of Paet Grand Mastera S:rEVKNSON and GRITMAN. He aleo quotes in full the

Proceedings of the

750

[Oct. 15,

reports of our several Boards of Relief and quotes
the items of ·relief furnish ed to
Ohio brethre n. lte pronounces the addres s of
Worsh ipful Bro. NILES S:sABLB,
Grand Orator , an interes ting, though tful MBson
ic paper, from which be quotes
with eviden t pleasur e. Bro. CUNNINGHAM is in
accord with us on the represe ntative questio n, and says be agrees with us that the
primar y object of Report • on
Foreig n Correspondence is the giving to the Ma~oni
c Frater nity the gist of the
proceedings of other jurisdic tions ; that from a study
of our own proceedings the
brethre n may obtain a reasona ble unders tandin g
of the conditi on of the Masonic
world.
In his oonclusion Bro. CUNNINGHAM states that
from his examin ation of the
reports , the consensus of opinion in the Grand Lodges
is decide dly in favor of the
continu ance of the system of Grand Repres entativ
es.
The discussion for and agains t any cipher or other
like dissem ination of the
esotery of Free Mason ry is.abou t equally divided
. AB whilst Maine, Michig an,
Monta na, North Dakota , Quebec, South Carolin
a, Wyom ing and other Grand
Jurisdi ctions either sanctio n or tolerat e it, upc.n the
other band Illinois , Massac husetts, Maryla nd, Oregon, Pennsylvania., West Virgin
ia and T exas are very pronounce d agains t its use, whilst other States seem
neutra l upon the questio n.
The subjec t of wm-affiliation, as for the past third
of a centur y, continu es to
receive much consideration, but with no solutio
n thus far of this vexed question.
The restora tion of inhere nt rights to Entere d Appren
tices and a more genera l observan ce of the social feature s of Freem asonry
would doubtle ss " .assilt" in its
solutio
Then.cultiva tion of the social relatio ns and fratern
al feature s of our Ancien t In·
etitutio n, in and out of the Lodge- room, and
especially as regards the visiting
brothe rs and the familieH of the brethre n, is now
advoca ted in all Grand Jurisdi ctions. In this report the subjec t is especia lly mentio
ned under the bead of Cali·
fomia, Canada., Maine and South Carolin a.
The M.·. W. ·• WILLIAM B. MELISH was elected
Grand Maste r; the R.·. W. ••
J. H. BROMWELL was re-eleeted Grand Secreta ry.
Chairm an of Correspondence,
M.·. W.·. WILLIAM M. CUNNINGHAM, Newar k.

OKLA HOMA .
The Grand Lodge of Oklaho ma held its fourth Annua
l Comm unicati on in the
city of Perry, Febru aryll, 1896,-M.·. w.·. CHARL
ES A. NEWMAN, Grand Maste r;
B.·.
JAMES s. HuNT, Grand Secreta ry. The Grand
Master is presen ted in
portra it on opening page. Twent y constit uent
Lodges were represe nted. Two
Past Grand Master s reporte d for duty.
The Grand Lodge of Oklaho ma bears upon her roll
.
twenty .seven Lodges , with
a membe rship of 1,085 Master Mason s.
Grand Master NEWMAN opened Grand Lodge
in Ample Form on the third
degree in Ma•on ry, appoin ted his commi ttees and
delivered his Annua l Addres s.
After a proper acknow ledgme nt of the kindne ss
and protect ion of the Great Ruler
as manife sted in their preserv ation to meet once
more in annual assembly to trans·
act such business as the interes t and welfare of the
Craft might deman d, be called
the attenti on of the brethre n to the visits of the
grim messenger, marked by the
remova l from their midst of active brethre n whose
loss was deeply felt by the
respec tive Lodges whicll held their membe rship and
in whose fratern al chain they
were useful and import ant links.
He reporte d the constit ution of five new Lodges
under charter s issued at the
former session and the issuanc e of dispen sations
by him for the format ion of five

w.·.

1896.J

Grand Lod,ge of UaU/ornia.

751

new Lodges, to whom be recommends th . '
which is most certain ly
a remark able irr:::~~ce of charter

s at the presen t session;
The Grand Master reports several decision h
.
to physica l qualifications and in wb ' h b
s,
•
1c e says_:t -e most import ant of which refers
A man
leg is off
a. Mason
. whose
.
. ID
. my opinion . ineligib
· above tl;le k nee 18,
le to be made
We gather from the tone of the Addres
th G
d
.
wearied from the cares and responsibilities s ofthat
s
e . ran. Master became much
the brethre n of Oklaho ma H
th
preadm
g
ligbt
and
instruc
tion to
•
e coses
1
e report 0 f b' 0 !Ii ·a1
censure of the seekers after more
lig ht m
. .1>.uw.o
.. ..__
is says:
Ci
acts
with
this
mild
nry. He
These,
my
brethre
n,
are
the
mor
·
ta
~ questions. Many oth'lrs have impor nt decl8lo
. .
ns '!lade by me in res onse
unport ance to take the time to rebeeen
made,
I consider them of too ii.inor
been answer ed by an examin ation f::~~ ~~~~·
Even the foregoing could all have
He contin ues:-

b~t

0

In
connection, I cannot refrain f
.
Masterthis
.
s and Warde
ns that their dut as roll! imp~s
mg
upon the minds of the
onr l!'ws. If our officers would stud~' the i°fficers_
Momto r the G~and Master would have ti;:s wit, hs to become acquai nted with
as
much
zeal as they do the
compelled to give to corresp ondenc
to dhvote to other matter s that he is
may be, shield him from unnecese· Broth era,
w oever your next Grand Master
1
unnecessary questio ns. Exami ne t~ abor.
Don't vex him with foolish and
your own constru ction, then ask bis oepi a.w for dyourse
lf, and if not satisfied with
mon, an not before.
A!ter absorb ing the foregoing fretful chunks of wi
for his entry of judgm
.
ent agains t th
1
sdom, we are quite
.
e use ess corresp ondent
. He says :- prepar ed
In this connec tion while I ma n 0 t be .
call your
.
atte~tion to' the follow inf :m accord with
your views, I desire to
Thei:e
are
fifty
-seven
Ameri
can
Grand
exhaus tive re.port on correspondence eve Lod ges,
these reports 1s largely destroy ed by their f,,lear and nea~ly every one makes an
. In my judi;:ment the utility of
one.n~tices them, and so length that few
etat1st1cal, and partak e very largely of the r~'!amtade so common that hardly anv
tshef · These reports are laro-e!y
tb1ong the corresp ondent s, and in genera l 1
i° a mhutual admira tion society
e same old questions.
stmp Y a re ash, year after year,
of

~::~n

Grand Master NEWMAN how could o~' B
heartil y in the closing words
of your Cy '.tte ut you are forgiven, and we
say :join
omm1 e on Grand Master 's Addres s, who
In closing, we desire to express s
.
hr~~h
dn~ to most heartil y commen~J!ithf~r~th
ouffi ~ra~d Mas~r in

0

IS

ut1es as Grand Master . So mote it be.

his failing
e e c1en and faithfu l dischar
ge

yre regret the
e of Br<>. JAMES
patient ly await itsabsenc
reappe arance well k S. HUNT'
.
hs Report on Correspondence, but
not so unlike the rest of the Fra~ern't now:ngd~
at the brethre n of Oklaho ma are
educat ional factor in Americ a F 1 y as 0 upense
with this most import ant
n reemasonry.
An Addres s was deliver ed by Pa.st Grand M
Grand Orator , whose subi' ect was "T'd'
Bro. SoHOYN DOUGLASS
1 mgs f rom theaster
West"
'
Much of the session was occupied i d'
.
.
•
against .Richey Lodge, No. 530, of tben.:s.cu~s1~g
a clan~ of P~wnee Lodge, No. 17,
by Pawnee Lodge to a. distres sed b thl nsd1ct1on
of M1ssoun, for
. d
er, a membe r of .Ric~-· L d relief furnish ed
C tme as due being $67 35 S ro
Ia
· • uc b th'mgs ought not to be. ·~v o ge, the amount;;

Proceedings of the

752

[Oct. 15,

1896.]

The Grand Lecturer exemplified the work by conferring the third degree in
presence of"Grand Lodge.
G d Lod
h" h
After closing the Masons of Perry tendered a banquet to ran
ged w ich
the Grand Secr;tary, Ero. HUNT, assures us was a thing of beauty an muc
enjoyment.
R. w: · JAMES S HUNT
M.••
HENRY RuoKER was elected Grand Master ; • · · •
·
was re-elected Grand Secretary•
Sf
11 te
1
Chairman of Correspondence: R.'. w.·. .JAMES s. HUNT,
wa r.

w.-.

OREGON.

The Grand Lodge of Oregon held its forty-fifth Annual CommunicatdioMniiitth~
Gran
as er •
eity of Portland June 12, 1895, -M . .· W · •• PHILIP S · MALOOLM
.
•
R . W • JAMJl:B F RoBINBON, acting Grand Secretary.
·
be
· The. Grand Lodge of Oregon has one hundred Lodges enrolled, wi~h a mem ~­
ship of 4 803 Master Masons. Ninety Lodges were represented at this ?omtmtundl·
. . d' t"
a en
cation •Twenty-five sister inns
1c ions were represented· There were in
W d ance ~en Past Grand Masters, one Past Deputy and four Past G~and ~r :_:·
Fine portraits of Past Grand Masters the M. ·• W. '.DAVID P. A~~Nho'd 1with
THOMAS G. RXAMllB of 188.5, and JAMES c. FULLXRTON of 1886 are pu s e
this volume.
The proceedings of the forty-sixth Annual Session, held in the ci~y ~f Por~~d
h•ve come to hand. This volume contains "the const1tut1on, o c1a1
J une 10th• ..
· f
" d last but not
decisions standing resolutions, edicts and laws now .1n o~e, ~n d s' cretary
least, its 'opening page is ornamented with a fine portrait of t e ran p et G
M . w • JAMES F. ROBINSON, and in appropriate places those of aa ran
M~ter 'jAOOB MAYXR, who wieldetl. the executive gavel in 1888, Past Grand
Master ERENBAM VAN DUSEN of 1891, and Past Grand Master FRANK ~· MOORE

d

ofl892.
W·
There were present M. ·. W. ·. MORTON D. CLIFFORD, G randMast er•·R·
·• ·•
J AMES F. ROBINSON, Grand Secretary.
ed Lod es
The Grand Lodge of Oregon bears upon its roll one hundred charter .
_R
and two under dispensation, of which ninety-three were represented at this session.
The jurisdiction numbers 4,874 Master Masons. The death roll for the year num·
bers eighty-one.
th
p t
There were also in attendance eleven Past Grand Masters, ree . as Grand
.
Wardens, and the representatives of thirty sister Grand Lodges. California w.as
not beard from.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the G rand

~·
The Grand Master delivered the Annual Address, ext ending fraternal si:eetmgs
.
trust comm1ttedcedto
to t he assembled brethren and reporting the conditionhof the
·
his care and attention. Eefore proceeding, however, e, ID
sorrow• . announ l'8
the death of Past Grand Master DAVID G. CLARK, Grand Mast·e r Ill the yea
1869-70 and Past Junior Grand Warden N ATBANIEL PERKINS EuNNELL. H~ gave
' their Masonic services,
· memories
· the tribute
in detail
and pe.1'd to th e1r
. of smcere
affection. He also reported from the unusually extend~ death roll of the year
the names of many eminent brethren of National reputation whose loss to M~nry
and their sister jurisdictions are keenly realized, and whose vacant seats w remain long unfilled.

Grand Lodge of Oaliforni.a.

753

The decisions of the Grand Master, although important several of them, are
controlled by the laws and regulations of the Grand Lodge of Oregon in the matters referred to, for instance referring to physical qualifications or the much
legislated-about business of the saloon.
Several special dispensation& were granted for various purposes.
The Grand Master reported an invitation·from t he Grand Lodge of Italy to attend on the 20th September, 1895, at her Capital, to celebrate the twenty.fifth
anniversary of the deliverance of her Capital; to which the Grand Master
responded in terms of fraternal sympathy and regard.
The Grand Lodge of Oregon holds in her Educational Fund resources of the
value of $78,417.41.
EASTERN STAR.
The Grand Lodge resolved :That we greet the Grand Chapter of the Eastern Star in session with fraternal

~eetings, and congratulate them upon their prosperity and wish them God speed

m their mission of benevolence and charity.

That a copy of this resolution he transmitted to the Grand Chapter in session
by the Grand Secretary.

We note the following graceful compliment to our Junior Past Grand Master
M. ·. w.·. JAM118 B. BTEVJl:NS, submitted by the CommitwaonCorre spondenceand
adopted by the Grand Lodge :WHEREA.S, The M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California, during its last Annual
Communication, through its Most W orshipful Grand Master, Ero. J AMES B.
STEVENS, in receiving and welcoming to a seat in the Grand E ast our M. ·. W. ·.
Ero. JAOOB MAYEB, a Past Grand Master of this Grand Jurisdiction, expressed a
desire that the amicable relations now existing between the brethren of that Grand
Jurisdiction and our own may continue and be strengthened and intensified
throustb the years to come ; therefore be it
R&olvt.d, That the brotherly sentiments so courteously expressed by Ero. JAMES
B. STEVENS, M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master of California, are cordially reciprocated by
this Grand Lodge, and that our thanks are due and are hereby tendered tlie
M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California for the very brotherly and fraternal reception accorded our esteemed brother, Paet Grand Master JAOOB MAYER.
A most excellent address was delivered by W orshipful S. M. YORAN, Grand
Orator, which was received by Grand Lodge with enthusiastic admiration.
On motion, Grand Lodge appointed a committee to inquire into and report
upon the condition of Freemasonry in the Island of Cuba, and said committee
reported as follows :Y our committee appointed on the condition of Freemasonry upon the Island
of Cuba respectfully rep<>rt t hat from information furnished by the Committee on
F oreign Correspondence we find that the Spanish Government recently issued a
decree closing all the Masonic Lodges upon the I sland, and declaring the Masonic
Fraternity an unlawful organization; therefore he it
R&oWe.d, That the sympathies of this Grand Lodge be and they are hereby
cixtended to our Masonic brethren of the Island of Cuba in this their hour of
oppression, with the hope that they may soon see their Masonic homes re-opened
and re-established.
R&olved further, That the committee be continued with intructions to report
more in detail at the neit Annual Communication.
The Grand Lodge of New Zealand was recognized and fraternally welcomed.
The representatives of sister Grand Jurisdictions were introduced by the Grand
Marshal, and welcomed by the Grand Lodge with appropriate honors.
Past Grand Master and representative of the U nited Grand Lodge of E ngland,

13

754

Proet.edings of the

[Oct. 15,

Bro. JACOB MAYKll, acknowledged the compliment and returned thanks fo~ the
representatives.
Grand Lodge presented Worshipful Bro. J. R. N •. BELL, Grand Chaplain, a
beautiful gold watch on the uineteenth anniversary of bis appointment as Grand
Chaplain.
A committee of five was appointed to consider upon and report next session the
proper observance to be made of the approaching semi·centenniRl of Grand
Lodge.
Past Grand Master ROBERT Cww, as Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, presented that committee's report, an exceedingly able and inte~esting
paper, reviewing the doings of all the American Grand Lodges, except Rh.ode
Island, with the principal foreign Grand Bodies, making a complete record of the
sentiment and condition of the Masonic world. Bro. CLOW's notice of California
is for the administration of Grand Master STEVENS, from whose address he quotes
with commendation. He joins in the universal tribute to our Past Grand Masters
who have passed away, Brothers JOHN MILLS BROWNE an~ WILLIAM CALDWELL
BELOHEB, as exemplars of the Masonic virtues.
He gives his approval to the disaeminat_ion of Grand Lodge charities by Grimd
Lodge during the session as well as by its representative-the Masonic Board of
Relief-during the recess. His notice of California is kind and fraternal, and indicates the relations which we hope may continue forever and forever.
Under Kansas, we quote the following as evidencing Bro. CLOw's opinions upon
the question of the recognition of "the Gran Dieta Symbolica" of Mexico, an
issue being brought rapidly to the attention of our Grand Lodges, and the conditions of which we.have given in several parts of this report.
At the last Annual Communication the question of recognition of "the Gran
Dieta Symbolica of Mexico " was referred to the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, which now submits a special report recommending recognitifi of the
Mexican so called Grand Lodge, and their report was adopted. Witli all due
respect for the ability and penetration of this committee, we beg to dissent and
protest against snch recognition. The argument brought forward by the committee, in its behalf, is fallacious and misleading and ought not _to be accepted by
any regular Grand Lodge. 'fhe conclusions of the committee have confe•sedly
been largely influenced by the correspondence carried on between its Chairman
and our esteemed brother, T. S. PARVIN, the Grand Secretary of Iowa, who seems,
in this matter, to have ignored the very generally accepted tests of recognition and
become impressed with the idea that when he crossed the Rio Grande he might
lawfully do as Romans did and countenance "impostors and dissenters from the
original plan of Masonry."
Having treated the subject in another place, we only observe here that to
us Bro. Cww's comments seem not warranted, in view of the painstaking and
elaborate investigation of the subject of Mexican Masonry by the distinguished
committees of Kansas, Texas, Iowa and New York. The exhaustive report of
Bro. MATTHEWS of Texas, based upon personal investigation, would almost persuade us that the best interests of Freemasonry demanded recognition.
•
'!.'he M. ·. w.·. PHIL METSOHAN was elected Grand Master; R. ·. W. ·. J"AB. F.
RoBINBON was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence, Past Grand Master RoBEBT Ctow, Junction City.

1896.]

rkand Lodge of Oalij'ornia.

755

PENNSYLVANIA.

The proceedings of the Grand Lodge of l:'eunsylvania for the year 1895 appear
in the usual elegant volnme, with the portrait of Grand Master MATTHIAS H ENDERSON at the fore, and the speaking likeness of R . ·• W.·. JOHN THOMPSON, who
was Grand Master in 1861-2. The portraits are engraved on steel and are in
keeping with the entire workmanship of the book.
The first Quarterly was held in the city of Philadelphia, March 6, 1895,-the
M.·. W.·. MATTHIAS H. H:e:NnEBBON, Grand Master, presiding; R.·. W.·. MIOHAEL
NIBBET being Grand Secretary. One hundred and twelve Lodges were represented.
The business _of the session was almost entirely confined to the consideration of
the finances of Grand Lodge, its investments, etc.
The Committee on Printing and Publishing also reported.

A second Quarterly was held June 5th. the Grand Master presiding, at which
one hundred and six Lodges were represented.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 7:10 P. M.
An appropriation of five thou.sand dollars was made to complete certain altera·
tions being made on the first floor of the Temple.
The Grand Master then made the following announcement:The saddest duty which, as Grand Master, I have been called upon to perform
le to announce to you the death of Right Worshipful Past Grand Master Bro.
Richard Vaux, which occurred at his residence in this city on the 22d of March
last. When I received the telegram apprising me of the event it was a great shock
to me, as it was the first intimation I had of his illness. I had spent an hour with
him in his office about two weeks previously, and left him apparently in the best of
spirits, little thinking I would never see him again. Bro. Vaux was a member of
this Grand Lodge about fifty year1, and aside from the elective offices be filled,
served on many of its important committees. He was Chairman of the Committee
ou Correspondence about twen~y-five :1.7ears, and his fame as a M&J!onic jurist was not
bounded by the shores of this contment. He was also promwent in the social
political and business life of this city. Many of you knew him in these different
relations. I knew him only as a Mason, and as •uch am proud to feel that he was
!DY frie'!d. To me be was always cordial, kind and approachable. After my
mstallat10n he congratulated me on the event, and said, " If ever I can be of
service to you, command me." Had the occasion arisen I knew he would have
been as good as his word.
At the time of his death my business was of •uch a nature that it was impossible for me to leave ho~e. I. telegraphed the R!ght W?rshipf~l Deputy Grand
Master, Bro. Kelly, askmg him to act for me, which he kmdly did. I am satisfied
that all was done with proper solemnity and decorum, and feel under many obligations to Bro. Kelly for so efficiently representing me.
Soon after Bro. Vaux's death I requested Right Worshipful Past Grand Mas~r
Bro. ~ichael Arnold to prepare a memorial of him, which he has done, and which
he Wlll now present to you.

R.·. W.• Bro. MIOHAEL ARNOLD then delivered the eulogy upon the life and
character of RrnHARD VAUX, giving special attention to hie Masonic history. It
was an eloquent and affectionate tribute to a brother, companion and friend.
Grand Chaplain HENBY S. GETZ also added his testimony to the manliness of
the man. He said :This small tribute of my estimation of him as a man I pay with a full heart and
a grate.fa~ ac~owledgment of. those ~ndyinir.v.irtues wh!ch go to make up a manhood distingmshed as well for its sterhngqualities as for its practical bearing upon
those with whom he was associated.
A communication was received from the Grand Lodge of Maryland with

756

Proceedirigs of the

[Oct. 15,
'

expressions of condolence upon the demise of R. ·• W. •. Past Grand Master
RICHARD VAUX, which was read.
After transaction of routine business in hand, Grand Lodge closed at 9:20 P. M.

A third Quarterly was held September 4th, Grand Master HBNDEBSON pre·
siding, at which ninety-three Lodges were represented.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 1 P. M.
The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund reported. The Committees on Library
and Appeals reported.
The Grand Secretary presented his annual report of Lodges and membership of.
the jurisdiction for the year ending on St. John's Day, December 27, 1894: Number of Lodges, 418; number of members, 48,472. Increase of membership during
the year, 1,061.
After the usual routine, Grand Lodge closed at 8:15 P. M.
A Grand Lodge of Emergency was held in the city of Philadelphia September
7, 1895, Grand Master BKNDERBON presiding; R.·. w:·. MICHAEL NISBET being
Grand Secretary. Twenty.one Lodges were represented.
M.·. w.·. CHARLES BELOHEB, Grand Master of New Jersey, and Bro. AusTIX
H. McGREGOR, Senior Grand Deacon of the Grand Lodge of New Jersey, were iil
attendance.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form at 4:10 P. M.
'.l'he Right Worshipful Gr~d Master stated that he had called this meeting for
the purpose of exercising bis prerogative by making SAMUEL B. HUEY a Mason at
sight.
An Entered Apprentice Mason's Lodge ~as opened, when SAMUEL B. HUEY
was introduced and received the first d~e in Masonry.
The Entered Apprentice Lodge closed and a Fellow Craft Ma~@'s Lodge
opened, when SAMUEL B. HUEY was again introduced and passed to the degree of
a Fellow Craft Mason.
The Fellow Craft Lodge closed and a Master Mason's Lodge opened, when
SAMUEL B. HUEY was introduced the third time and raised to the sublime degree
of a Master Mason.
Grand Lodge closed in harmony at 6:20 P. M.
A fourth Quarterly was held at Philadelphia, December 4, 1895, Grand Maeter
MATTHIAS H. HENDERSON presiding. Two hundred and forty-eight Lodges were
.
rep resented.
M.·. w.·. CLINTON F. PAIGE, Past Grand Master of New York, was in attend·
ance.
Grand Lodge waa opened at 10:10 A. M.
This being the time preecribed for the annual election, and a ballot being held,
the tellers reported the re-election of B. ·. W. •. MATTHIAS H. HENDERSON as Grand
Master of Masone in Pennsylvania. R.·. W:•, Bro. MICHAEL NISBET was also reelected Grand Secretary,
The Trustees of the Girard Bequest and of the Thomas K. Patton Memorial
Fund, and the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, made their several reports.
From the Report of the Finance Committee, we find the receipts for the fieca~

1896.J

Grand Lodge of_ California.

757

year ending November 15, 189b, to have been$323,549.66; with expenditures, same
period, of $322,833.52,
The usual routine having been considered, Grand Lodge closed in harmony at
9:10P. M.
The Annual Grand Communication of this Grand Lodge was held in the city of
Philadelphia December Zl, 1895,-Grand Master MATTHIAS H. HENDERSON
presiding; the R.·. W:·. MICHEL NISBET being Grand Secretary.
Grand Lodge opened in Ample Form at 10:10 A. M.
The Trustees of Grand Lodge Charity Fund reported the receipts from interest
on investments for the year to be $5,563.85, and disbursements to almoners of
classes l, 2, 3 and 4, of $4,010.00, leaving balance on band at close of year of
$1,553.85. The securities held by Trustees, as per list given, amount to $74,000.00.
The Committee on Appeals reported.
~he Grand Masters of New York and New Jersey, with a Past Grand Master,
Semor Grand Warden and Senior Grand Deacon of the Grand Lodge of New
Jersey, were honored visitors at this session.
Grand Master HENDERSON delivered his Annual Address. After thanks to
Almighty G~ for his infinite.mercies ~nd the blessings enjoyed by the Fraternity,
he fervently mvoked the contmued guidance and protection of the same Supreme
•
Power.
Before proceeding to the businesij of the session, the Grand Master noticed the
absence of some who had with them enjoyed many seasons of pleasant associations
at th~ Annual and Quarterly Reunions of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
Promment amon~ th!l absent ones, whose name is identified with the forms and
ceremonies of Masonic fellowship in the Keystone State, is the well-beloved name
of RICHARD VAUX.
"As Hiram slept, the widow's son,
So doth our brother take his rest."
"The hewing to the line " of our Pennsylvania brethren in their strict observance of the landmarks, laws and usages of the Fraternity as set forth in their
"Ahimon Rezon," is worthy of the admiration of every Freemason.
Among his reported decisions we admire and heartily concur in both of the
following : It is not proper for the Wor:ihipful Master to receive the Tyler's avouchment
for a stranger from the Pursmvant. When the latter announces that the former
can vouch for a str!'nger the Tyler .should be required to come into the Lodge.
room and make bis avoucbment directly to the Worshipful Master There will
then be no danger of the identi~y of the visitor being lost. Any otb~r method is
not proper and cannot be permitted.
. A man who _caun!>t write. cannot be mad.e .a Mason. An applicant must, with
his own ban~, sign h1E name m full to the petit10n. A mark (X) cannot be accepted
A man w~o m this age of free sc~ools has arrived at years of maturity without on~
of t~e. rudiments of the most ordmary education doe~ not manifest intelligence and
amb1t10n enough to be !' useful member of our Fraternity. We cannot condone or
tolerate that degree of ignorance.

In regard to the matter of "conferring the degrees at eight," the Grand Master
says:Septem~er 7th I exercised the prerogative of a Grand Master_by conferrinl!' the
d!Jgi:es at sight o_n ~amuel B. Huey, a resident of Philadelphia. While some iurisd1ct1ons d~ny this right to the Grand Master, Pennsylvania has adhered tenaciously
to the ancient landmark, and there have been been but few of our Grand Masters

758

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

the
who have not obaerved it at least once. We do it for the purpose of keeping
and fall
custom green in the minds of the brethren, and lest it become forgotten
to select a
into decay by reason of disuse. The Gre.nd Master always ende~vors
candidate worthy of the honor conferred -one who conforms physically, mentally
and morally to the requirements of the Craft.
Bro.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by the Committee, R. ·• W. ·.
ht
thirty-eig
of
doings
the
of
review
a
submits
who
,
Chairman
ABSOLD,
MICHAll:L
to
Grand Lodges, with such comments and suggestions as their legislation seems
warrant.
The review of California is for the administr ation of Grand Master ORME,
agrees
whose Address is very thoroughly considered and partiaJly approved. He
funds
with our Grand Master that a Lodge should not be restricted in the use of its
by the
for social purposes; that a personal acquainta nce should be maintaine d
officers of a Lodge with all of its members.
Reforring to the right of a Lodge to instruct its Master upon matters to come
before Grand Lodge, he considers the Grand Master's ruling cloudy. Perhaps
· so, Bro. ARNOLD; our Committee on Jurisprud ence thought so.
is
He notes especially the decision of our Committe e on J urisprurlence that "It
a fundamen tal law and a part of the 'Body of Masonry' that no man can lawfully
belief
be made a Mason who does not unequivocally declare at the threshhold his
our
in
appear
not
does
it
"Because
:
says
He
"
in God and a future existence.
·
petitions as it does in theirs."
Our General Regulation No. 11 reads:nor
The person who desires to be made a Mason must be a man ; no woman
a belienr
eunuch: free born, being neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman;
writing;
and
reading
of
in God and a future Axisteuce; of moral conduct ; capable physical conformation,
not deformed or dismembered, but hale and sound m his
literally to
having his right limbs as a man ought to have; and ahle to conform
in
what the several degrees respectively require of him. (As revised and adopted
1864.)

A page of quotations from the Oration of Grand Orator NILES SEARLS a.re given
and marked "Some Prophecy. "
At the commencement of his notice of California, the reviewer remarks :Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form and the "Te Deum" was sung.
Perhaps it was supposed that a Command ery in an asylum was being opened.
we
No, Bro. ARNOLD, we didn't think we were opening the Command ery;
and we
knew we were at work at the "Big end," the foundation of all Masonry, "
would
think the "Te Deum " appropria te for the place and the occasion. What
Is
opening!
Quaker
a
to
us
restrict
would
you
possible
it
b
yon, Bro. ARNOLD!
there no music in the soul of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylva nia?
May
The writer returns acknowledgments, with thanks, for kind words.
and
hed
distinguis
late
their
by
acquired
reputation
the
sustain
committee
the
universally lamented chairman, Bro. RIOHARD VAUX.
the
The M. •• W. •• MATTHIAS H . HENDERSON was re· elected Grand Master ;
R.'. W. •• MICHAEL NISBET was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Committe e on Correspondence: R. ·. W. ·• MICHAEL ARNOLD, Masonic Temple,
Philadelp hia, Chairman .
PRINCE EDWAR D ISLAND .
The Grand Lodge of Prince Edward Island held its twentieth Annual ComA. Mcmunicatio n in the town ·of Snmmerside June 24, 1895,-M. ·. W. ·. THos.
LEAN, Grand Master; R. ', W, ·. B. WILSON HIGGS, Grand Secretary.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

759

of
An Emergent Communication of this Grand Lodge was held in the city
Charl_ottetown, March 21st, for the purpose of dedicating St. John and Yictoria
Lodges.
At the Ann11al Communication eleven Lodges were represented.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer.
of
The Grand Master extended a hearty greeting and welcome to each and all
Lodg
the assembled brethren. He rejoiced that death had not entered the Grand
hav~
alth?ugh ~e ha~ manifeste d. himself in many sister jurisdictions, and we
"We
offic1al notification of the taking off of many eminent brethren. He says:
been
tender our heartfel~ sympathy to those of our sister jurisdictions who ha~e
whom
dead
illustrious
the
for
prepared
house
narrow
the
mto
gaze
to
upon
called
th
they have laid away with full hope in a glorious resurrection. The story of
tend:s:
noble lives will be told in the respective Grand Lodge reports in words of
est regret and honest praise."
No important decisions were rendered.
All of the Lodges were visited during the year.
T~is Grand Lodge has jurisdictio n over eleven chartered Lodges, with a membership of five hundred and nine Master Masons.
The receipts for the year were $373. 92; the disbursements, $284.23.
~'he Committee on Foreign Correspondence offered the following resolution '
which was adopted: RUJt?lyecl, That the Gre.nd Lodge of Prince Edward Island extend fraternal
Z;~~'.on to the Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of l'llew
There was no Repor.t on Correspondence.
M. ·• W. ·. RoDERIOK MoNEILL was elected Grand Master; R. ·. W. •. NETL
MCKELVIE was elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence, M. ·. W. •. DoNALD DARRAOH, Kensington.

T~e .Grand Lodge of Prince Edward !eland held its twenty-first Annual Oom·
Grand
mumcahon at Oharlottetown, Jnne 24, 1896,-M. ·• W. ·, R. MAoNBILL, M. D.,
with
Master ; R. ·. W. ·. NEIL MAOKELOIB, Grand Secretary. Twelve Lodges enrolled
inscribed
are
names
Three
Masons.
Master
fifteen
and
hundred
five
of
ip
a membersh
d
npon the death roll of the year. Thirty-fonr sister Grand Lodges were represente
Grand
and al~ of the Lodges of the jnrisdiction. Foor Past Grand Me.stars, fonr Past
Deputies and seven Past Grand Wardens were in attendanc e
Grand Lodge was opened with prayer by the Grand Oha1;lain.
The G:r~nd ~a~ter ~n. his Address gave the brethren hearty greeting.and invited
mercy
them to JOin him m giv.mg thanks to the Most High for his goodness and
·
vouchsafed to them durmg the past year. He reported the visitation of the
of the family circle of the brother Grand Beere t ary,grim
messenger and his invasion
re.
h
·
was the
~ovmg a eloved. wife and a dntifol mother from the home of which she
nam d
hght and the gnfdmg star. The fraternal dead of sister jnrisdlotions were
'
among others, oar beloved WILLIAM C. BJ:LCRBB, as brethren " who are gather~
de~
h.o?1eward fr?m every land," There is no ground for dillllllnt from his reporied
01s1ons. He 1ssned the following circular in October, 1895 :. The question of Masonic charity and relief for aged and infirm Masons

th ·

itself npon the attention and considera tion'of J!~
:;,~tWBj r~~ trphatnhB, is flodrcing
over. As a Grand fAdge we have never done an thin
~ u~ s 1c 1ona e wor
I have thongh{ It a~'
a!1d ~~ view of the necessity which exists for a commencement
a nucleus fo;
visa e ~ make an appeal to the Lodges in thi• jurisdiction totoprovide
mem·
snob relief fund by vote or subscription, equivalent, at least, one dollar per

760

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

1896.J

ber. This woold give us a fuod of at least five hundred dollars to meet the G.·and
Lodge with. The fond wonld have to be nursed nntil it attained each maximum as
the brethren wonld deem reasonable. For instance: in view of what other organ·
izations contribute for relief and benefits, it would not be nnreaaonable for the breth·
ren of tbis jurisdiction to aspire to raising it equivalent to an average of twen~y
dollars per member-not by individual assessment, bot by entertainments, subscnp·
tions and donations, without material injury to the weakest brother in the Craft. At
my oWcial visitation to each Lodge I expect to bring this question before yon, and
will require definite and decided action in order to make a report of the same to the
Grand Lodge. In this age concentrated eft'ort is desirable, and unless we make con,imencement we will never be able to reach the desired goal. I hope your MaM.1110
principles will give hearty and unanimous support to this measure.

And he closes bis address with an infallible receipt of "bow to make the world
bright:"How bright and fair the world might be
Were men more often known
To try to mend-not other's faultsBnt, better far, their own;
Did we but try mankind to teach
A nobler, better way,
Not merely by a formal speech,
Bat actions day by day,
How bright and fair this life might be,
No more a troubled dream,
If men would live for what they are,
And not for what they seem·;
Did we but garner less of wealth,
Which leads so oft astray,
And more of mind and soul delights,
That cannot pass away,
How bright and fair this world might b11,
What marvels 'twonld nnfold,
If men wonld do one half for love

Thatnow they do for gold;

If we to truer, si::opler ways

Were only more inclined,
We then should learn life's choicest girts
Are health and peace of mind.
The Grand RepresentAtives were received and welcomed with the Grand Honors.
We quote the following items from the report of the Committee on Address of
the Grand Master:Self congratnlation is sometimes in order. Let ns congratulate ourselves in having reached oar majority. And In the light of the spirit of the address which we
here review, and npon which we report, let ns ever be worthy our manhood.
Reporting on statements and recommendations, seriatim. Our attention is first
directed to the broken column, its suggestion, and at the same time its hope, accord·
Ing to Me.sonic teaching. The momentous visitation symbolized by the broken
column, impresses us more deeply, as the scythe of the dead messenger does its
fatal work, within the bounds of our jurisdiction, and therefore, we unite our most
cordial sympathy with the toncbing allusion of our Grand Master to the bereave·

761

ment that has shadowed the heart and home of onr most esteemed Grand Secretary.
Beyond onr ·bonnds, also, many workmen, faithful and trne, have been summoned
before the. Great Architect of the Universe. We would here make special mention
of the death of the late lamented Prince BB'!IRY of Battenburg, whoRe departure has
caused grief to our beloved Queen, whom may the God of all consolation comfort
and bless.
The committee on the representative qnestion also say:The appointment of worthy and distinguished brethren to represent foreign juri~­
diction is of great moment, keeping ns as IL does in close touch with onr brethren
throughout the world, and so helplnlf the more to a realization of the high ideal of
the brotherhood of man, more especially of Masons.

He then visited the Lodges of his jurisdiction, generally In company with one or
more of the Grand Officers, and by bis zeal and personal efforts succeeded in obtaining contributions from all and inaugurating the relief or benevolent fund. His suggestion is that :At the present session of the Grand Lodge the Grand Master will appoint one
Trn•tee for one year, one for two years, and one for three years, and they can appoint a Secretary and Treasurer. This fund shall be loaned by the Trustee"B at In·
terest, on flr•t mortgages on improved Prince Edward Island farms of at )P,ast double
the value of the amount loaned or invested in the Dominion, provincial. or city bonds
legally issned, and they shall make an annual report to the Grand Lodge.

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

Grand Lodge also

ReaoltJed, That no Lodge in this jorisdiction shall receive as a joining or affiliate
member, any person who as prlnoipal or clerk is engaged in the manufacture or the
sale of spirituous or malt liquors, excepting for medicinal purposes.

•

Grand Lodge resolved that next Annual Commnnication be held in the city of
Charlottetown on thA 24th of Jone, 1897.
M. •• w.·. JOHN L. THOMPSON was elected Grand Master; R.·. w. ·. NElr. MACKJILOU:
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
QUEBEC.

The Grand Lodge of Quebec held an Emergent Communication for the purpose
of laying the corner-stone of the Methodist Church in the village of Knowlton
May 22, 1895. Eleven Lodges were represented. The ceremonies were elaborate
and impressive. An Address was delivered by Past Grand Master Bro. J.P.
Nones, to a large audience of citizens and Masons.

The Grand Lodge held its twenty-sixth Annual Comruunication at the city of
Montreal the 29th and 30th of January, 1896,-M.·.
FR!l:DERIOK MAssu,
Grand Master, presiding, R.·. W.·. J. H. lBAAOBON being Grand Sec~etary. Fifty
Lodges were represented and Representatives of thirty sister Grand Lodges were
present. California's proxy did not appear. Quebec numbers fifty-six constituent
Lodges, with a membership of 3,530 Master Masons. The death roll for the year
bears the names of forty-two brethren. Worshipful Bro. JAOOB VooBBANGER
represents the Grand Lodge of Quebec near the Grand Lodge of California.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form and the Grand Master delivered his
Annual Address. He commenced his Address with a fervent acknowledgment of
the care and protection of the Almighty Father, and offered thanks for the privilege of meeting again for their annual deliberations. He said at no time in the
past history had Grand Lodge been so progressive and prosperous as at present.
The Grand Master reported his official acts for the year ; presented hill several
rulings on matters submitted to him, but which are of interest only to the Craft at
home, as the matters in question were governed in each case by the local law. He
announced the death of several eminent Masons of their own and sister Jurisdictions. As to their relations with other Grand Bodies, he says :-

w.·.

As far as our foreign relations are concerned they remain very much as heretofore, the Lodges ha»ing jurisdiction under the Grand Lodge of England baing
s~ill in existence in this city of Montreal. There are not wanting, in my opinion,
signs that these Lodges will possibly in the near future consider serionslv benelits
which would accrue to them from being in much closer contact to their Grand
Body than they are at present. Without going clo(le)y into this question, which
has been so fully discussed heretofore, I dismiss the subject with the remark that

762

Proceedings of the

[Oct'. 15,

1896.]

jt is to be hnped that ere long Lodges referred to will recognize it as their duty' to
relieve the Grand Lodge of England from the somewhat, no doqb!; to them, embarrassing position of still allowing Lodges to work under Englishctiii:rters in this
Province of Quebec; a position which, undoubtedly, no Grand Lodge cares' to
maintain, and one which has never become so solitary as to be marked among the
Grand Lodges of the Masonic world.
Reports were received from the six District Deputy Grand Masters, with full
reports of the condition of the Lodges in their respective Districts.
The Grand Chaplain delivered an eloquent discourse upon the subject of Masonry and Religion.
·
R.·. W.·. Bro. E.T. D. CHAMBERS submits the Report on Correspondence-an
unusually interesting paper, and especially so as Bro.CHAMBERS has passed through,
during the year, a long and severe illness. However, his report is his tenth annual
review of the Masonic doings of the world, with a most interesting disquisition of
fourteen pages preceding it, containing his comments upon the history, condition
and future of Freemasonry. In it he pays a merited and most eloquent tribute to
those eminent brethren with whom he had been associated as a Grand Lodge correspondent, who have rested from their labors and are at rest forevel'. His review
of California is of the administration of Grand Master STEVENS, whose Address
he pronounces "an admirable one." He notes the death of Past G~and Masters
BELCHER and BROWNE, and writes favorably of our proceedings.
Under the head of Missouri Bro. CHAMBERS, in discussing physical disqualification, declares himself in accord with Bro. VINOIL, whc. would require nothing
more than that the candidate should be able to conform literally to the requirements.of the several degrees.
And under Mississippi, he concurs in Bro. F&RDERIC SPEED'S observation that
if the Grand Master ever possessed the "inherent power" to make Masons at
sight, it ought never to be exercised.
Under Nevada, he says: "Grand Lodge very properly refused to subscribe to
the Mississippi heresy of perpetual jurisdiction.
Under Texas, in discussing the status of the Gran Dieta Simbolica of Mexico,
he says:We may mention as a matter of interest that there are under the jurisdiction
and warrant of the Gran Dieta Simbolica seventeen Grand Lodges and State
Lodges, with two hundred and twenty-Ii ve Blue Lodges, having a total membership
of 21,992. There are also in Mexico two so-called Grand Lodges which do not acknowledge the jurisdiction of the Gran Dieta, viz. : Vera Cruz, and in the City of
Mexico the Federal District, the two together having subordinate to them twenty
Lodges, with about five hundred members.

M.·. W.·. FREDERICK MASSEY was re-elected Grand Master; R.·. W.·. JOHN H.
ISAACSON was re-elected Grand Secretary.
RHODE ISLAND.

The Grand Lodge &f Rhode Island and Providence Plantations held a Special
Communication in the city of Providence October 3, 1894, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of the Ebenezer Primitive Methodist Church, which was performed with elaborate ceremonies, and were pa cipated in by his excellency the
Governor of the State as assistant to the Grand Master. Pleasing addresses were
made by the Grand Master and the Governor, and both were presented with
beautifully wrought silver trowels.
The ceremonies being concluded the dignitaries and brethren were entertained
at a banquet by the ladies of the church.

Grand Lodge of Oaliforuia.

763

\

A Semi-Annual Communication was held in the same city November 19,
1894,-the M. '· W. •. ELISHA H. RHODES, Grand Master, presiding.
Repotts from Grand Officers were received and referred to the usual committees,
The Grand Lecturer and his asRistant exemplified the work of the three degrees
before Grand Lodge.
The Committee on Amendments to the Constitution reported and their recommendations were adopted.

f

The Gra·nd Lodge held its one hundred and fifth Annual Communication in the
city of Providence May 20, 1895,-the M. ·. W. ·. ELISHA H. RHODES, Grand
Master, presiding. Thirty Lodges were represented.
The Grand J,odge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address. After a fraternal greeting
he offered praise and thanksgiving to Him who had preserved them to meet
again in Grand Lodge.
He read from the death roll the names of those brethren who had gone from
among them, in obedience to the divine summons, during the past year, and paid a
brief tribute to the memory of each.
The Grand Master reported the official acts of the year for their consideration.
He submitted his report of official visitation with his conclusions regarding the
condition of their Lodges and the standard of their work. He granted one dispensation for the formation of a new Lodge.
ReportR of the conditioa of the Lodges were presented hy the five District
Deputy Grand Masters and the Grand Lecturer.
An eloquent eulogy was delivered upon the life and Masonic services of Past
Deputy Grand Master SAMURL G. STIN&BB by Wor. and Rev. Bro. HENRY W.
RUGG, Grand Chaplain.
Bro. RUGG, as Chairman of Committee on Correspondence, also reported on
"the Mississippi rules," which, for reasons given by the committee, they do not
recommend for passage by the Grand Lodge, but suggest that no action be taken
thereon and that the circular submitted be placed on file. Which action was had.
We note the presence of R. •. W. ·.GEO. M. CARPENTER, Representative of the
Grand Lodge of California near the Grand Lodge of Rhode Island, at this annual
session.
Under the Constitution of the Grand Lodge of Rhode Island the Grand Master
appoints the Deputy Grand Master, the five l>istrict Deputies, the Grand Chaplain,
Grand Deacons, Stewards, Marshal, Sword Bearer, Pursuivant, Lecturer, Musical
Director and Grand Tyler, the elective officers being only Grand Master, Wardens,
Treasurer and Secretary.
The Grand Lodge is now publishing a "Centennial Memorial Volume," a
volume of nine hundred pages, the same being a complete history of the origin
and establishment of Freemasonry in Rhode Island, with its one hundred years of
progress.
A Special Communication was held May 30th for the constitution of St.
Andrew's Lodge, No. 39. The ceremonieR were elaborate, with musical accompaniments and an address by Rev. Bro. RUGG, at the close of which Grand Lodge was
handRomely entertained by the new Lodire.
M. ·. W. ·. EDWARD P. LOWDEN was elected Grand Master; -R. ·. W. •, EDWIN
BAKER was re-elected Grand Secretary.

764

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

tlCOTLAND.

The Grand. Lodge of Scotland held a Quarterly Communication in Freemason's
Ha.ll, Edinburgh, May 2, 1895,-Bro. JOHN GRAHAM, substitute Grand Master,
presiding; Bro. MURRAY LYNN, Grand Secretary. One hundred and fifty Lodges
·
were represented.
Grand Lodge WWI opened in Ample Form with solemn prayer.
Reports of sister Grand Lodges were received with thanks.
VISITOR.
The Grand Director of Ceremonies introduced to Grand Lodge Bro. J . D. B.
GRIBBLE, Past Master of Lodge Morland, Cbudderghaut, No. 569, a distinguished
promoter of Scottish Freemasonry in India, who was cordially welcomed from the
throne, and in a short address gave an interesting sketch of the position the
Scottish Craft hold• in our Indian Empire.
After the usual routine business, the Grand Lodge closed in Solemn Form.
M eeting of the Grand Committee, July 2.~th, Sir CH4RLEI! DALRYllPL)C, ,presiding. Only routine business and the condition of the funds was considered.
The Grand Master was thanked for presiding.
The following account is given of a Masonic celebration at Dunblane on the 6th
of June, that being the two hundredth or bi-centenary year of the existence of the
Lodge.
The brethren were visited by the Provincial Grand Lodge of Perthehire West
and by the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and dined in the
Victoria Hall. Many distinguished brethren were present.
A Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge of Scotland wa.s held in
Freemason's Hall, Edinburgh, August 1, 1895,-M.·. W.·. Bro. Sir 0HARLll:B
DALRYllfl'LE, Grand Master, on the throne ; Hro. D . MURRAY LYON, Grand Beere,
tary. l:!eventy-five Lodges were represented, and a large number of Grand and
Paet Grand Officers and Dignitaries were present.
The work of the committee being completed with the nomination of the usual
office bearers. the Grand Master was thanked for presiding.
BOOTH AUSTRALIA.

A Special Communication was held at the same place on Friday, January 11,
1895,- the Provincial Grand Master, M.·. W.·. the Hon. S. J . WAY, as Grand
Master, presiding, V. ·. W. ·. J. H. CUNNINGHAM, Grand Secretary. Fifteen Lodges
were represented. The Representatives of twenty-one sister Grand Lod11;ee were
in attendance.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The half yearly Communication of the Grand Lodge of South Australia was held
at Freemasons Hall, Adelaide, October 16, 189b,-M.·. W. ·. the Hon. S. J. WAY, D.
c. L. & c., Grand .Master ; v.·. w.·. J. H. CUNNINGH•H, J. P., Grand Secretary.
Ten Lodges were represente d, and there was a good attendance of Paet Mastera,
·
Wardens and Grand Representatives.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The Board of General Purposes reported :The Board recommend to the Lodges to consider the desirability of restricting
the admission of visitors until afler the minutes are conlirmed.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of California.

765

Lodges of lnetrnction have been formed under the sanction of the Union and
Princess Royal Lodges, with the approval of the Board.
The Jloard have been asked for a ruling iu r eference to the statns or honorary
members. The Constitutions are very clear on the point. Honorary members cannot yote on. any qnesti~ns, unleBB a nnanlmoos vote by ballot is taken conferring that
privilege ; 1t ls also qmte clear that honorary members are not eligible for any office.
The Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge was held at Freemaaons Hall
Flindos street, April 15, 11196,-M.·. W.·. the Bon.· S, J. WAY, D. C. L., Grand
J. H. CUNNll'IGHA.¥, J. P., Grand Secretary. Fourteen Lodges
Master; v.·.
were represented, with a large attendanc~ or Past Masters, Wardens, the Grand
Stewards and Representatives of sister Grand Jnriedictions.
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form. Forty chartered Lodges, with a membership of 2,21i7. Twenty-four names upon the death roll of the year. The minntes
or the half yearly Commnnlcation held October 16, 1895, were read and confirmed.
The Board of General Pnrposes report the balance to credit or General Fund as
£351 13s. 9d.; of Available Benevolent Fond, £565 Ss. 9d.; and of Permanent
Benevolent Fund, £1,168 16s. lOd.
The Grand Lodge of British Columbia have suggested the name or Worshipful
Bro. Wx. G. BENDRBSON as the Representative or this Grand Lodge near the Grand
Lodge of British Columbia.
The M.·. W. •. the Grand Master bas iBBned a warrant of constitution for a new
Lodge at Palmerston, N. T., to be called the Port Dari.Din Lodge. Worshipful Bro.
PA.UC. FoEI.l!CHE, P. G. S. B., is named as the first Worshipfnl Master, and it Is confidently hoped that under his able ruling the Lodge will be euccessfnl.
Intimation bas been received of the death of M.·. W. •• Bro. Dr. E. O. GIBLIN,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Tasmania. As an expression or sympathy with
our Tasmanian brethren all the Lodges of this jurisdiction were ordered into mourning for one month by the M.·. W.·. the Grand Master.
The Grand Inspector or Lodges made an elaborate report. In closing, be says:-

w.·.

! regret having to state that the advantages of the Lodge of instruction have not
been availed or by the younger officers to the extent they· might have, the average
attendance of members at the nine meetings being only eight. Foor meetings were
not held on account of insufficient number to open a Lodge.

B.·. W.·. N. W. SPAULDING is the RepreRentative ot the Lodge of Sontb Australia
near Grand Lodge of California.
M.·. W.·. Bro. the Hon. S. J. WAY, D. C. L., L.L. D., Lieutenant-Governor and
Obief Justice of South Australia, Chancellor of the University of Adelaide, etc.,
Grand Master; V.·. W.·. Bro. J. H. CUl!ININGHAll, Grand Secretary.
SOUTH CAROLINA.

The • Grand Lodge of South Carolina held its one hundred and nineteenth
.Annual Communication in the city of Charleston, December 10, 1895,-M.·. W.•.
CLAUDE E. SAWYER, Grand Master; R.·. W.·. CHARLKB INGLEBBY, Grand Secreiary. The Grand Lodge of South Carolina has jurisdiction over one hundred and
eighty-one constituent Lodges, having a membership of 5,00'l Master Masons.
One hundred and eighty-one Lodges were represented at this Communication.
Twenty-three sister Grand Lodges were represented. There were also present six
Paet Grand Muters.
B efore the opening of Grand Lodge, the brethren received a stirring welcome
from the Mayor of the city, Bro. JOHN F. FICKEN, who threw the gates wide open
and invited all to partake of the hospitality of the old "City by the Sea."

Proceedings of the

766

1896.J

[Oct. 15,

Grand
The Grand Master responded to the Mayor's words of welcome, and th'e
Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master welcomed the brethren in attentlanc e and returned thanks
They had
to the Supreme Ruler for the mercies · and blessings of the past year.
and
been favored with bountiful harvests, freedom from pestilence and plague,
upon
white winged peace had presided over their councils. He congratul ated them
but
the fact that Masonry is improving in South Car-0lina, not rapidly, perhaps,
from . the
he notes a perceptibl e advancem ent in character and tone, although,
of
following, we fear the Grand Master is not entirely satisfied with the condition
his jurisdictio n. He says :- ·
upon
It is e. se.d commenta ry on our ancient and honorable Institutio n, founded
the search
friendship , morality and brotherly love, whose purpose is to encourage
should
it
that
for truth through the medium of the first and deepest of all sciences,
till they
have for its principal officers rnen who have pushed themselve s forward
d the
understan
not
do
yet
and
Lodges,
their
in
have reached the highest places
simplest rndiments of the science which they undertake to teach.refined feeling and
What can be more discouragi ng to a man of education and
s bungled
cultivated tastes, than to have our beautiful and impressive ceremonie
of the true symthrough in the most slipshod manner, without any semblancethat
ever-increaPi,ng
bolism. Is it any wonder that such men drop out and join
.
army of non-affiliate•?
the
Many of our laws are plain, but none but those who have been through
of
ignorance
the
of
idea
Grand East. and the Grand Secretary , can form any
Masonic law that prevails in South Carolina.
law
Upon the subject of physical qualificati ons, the Grand Master thinks the
with one
men
out
rule
to
had
he
says
He
nts.
requireme
its
in
rigid
too
altogether
toe of the
eye, the loss of the first joint of the little finger of the left hand, a little
left foot, etc. He says :of good
We learn to subdue theda1111ion11, act upon the square, keep a ton~e
things with
report, maintain secrecy an practice charity ; ce.n we not do all these
"subwith
do
to
feet
and
hand
one eye? What has fingers s.nd toes of the left
and
duing our passions, acting upon the square, keeping a tongue of good report,
practicing charity?"
of
He trnly says the doctrine of perpetual jurisdictio n is a constant source
discord and annoyance , and hopes for some uniform rule that will be acceptable
to all.
comHe submitted to the Grand Lodge the Colorado invitation to join in the
WASH·
memoratio n of the Centennia l Anniversa ry of the De~th of Bro. GEORGE
INGTON.

Of his decisions the Grand Master says:-

to report.
During the year I have answered manv questions that are too trivial
which I had
I have been requested to exercise my prerogativ e in many instances,
de~ out of
to refuse, such, for instance, as granting dispensati ons to conferdi9pensed
with
time. The solemn. requireme nts of the Constituti on should not benot be held so
should
s
for trivial reasons. Our ancient usages and regulation
prelightl,v ; they should only be set aside by the exercise of the Grand Master's
rogatI ve for grave reason and urgent necessities.
life and all
It is too often the case that men wait till they are in th11 prime offew
months,
of a sudden they are attacked with a Masonic fit and cannot wait anothing
when
know
and
on
but must be rushed through under a special dispelltlati
they get through. I have refused all such.
judgI submit the following decisions for your approval, or should you, in your
ment, think I erred, then for your correction . .
will
The subjects being all of local interest and governed by the local law we
ds that
not quote. At the conclusion of his address the Grand Master recommen

Grand Lodge of California.

767

certain co.mmittees be made standing committee s, and in support of bi& suggestion
very forcibly remarks :durin
Many questions of .vital importanc e are referred to the Grand Master
and af g
the year. He tak!'s tu:~e to ~ and study the questions thorou hlr~ferred t::3!
long ~nd calm deliberatio n, deci?es the question. His decision s, far less stud
committee that . d~ not h~ve time to refer to a.II his authoritie
in almost every instance in which hy
them ; they de~1de. m a hurried manner, and
e
is overruled he is ngbt and the committee wrong.

fs

f

Receipts for the year $9,560.25 ; expenditu res for the year $9,939.39.
· n·
The one hundred and eighty-one Lodges are apportion ed to ten M asomc
is.
h d th
t'ts
to
nc , eac un er e supervisio n of a District Deputy, who makes full report
his
under
the Grand Master of the Masonic and financial condition of the Lodges
charge.1
, th
The Committe e on Correspon dence submitted the Report of its Chairman
paper fo:
Grand Secreta?', expre.ssing their appreciati on of its merit as a valuable
~fd~n:nce and mformatio n as to the legislation of the several Grand Lodges, with
family at
~~ 1cious comments upon the condition and prospects of the Masonic
...rge.
Master
. Th.e Grand Represent atives in attendanc e were welcomed by the Grand
m fittmg and fraternal terms.
On Wednesda y at one P. x., the Grand Lodis-e enjoyed a steamboat e.xcun1ion
around Ch~rleston Harbor as the guests of the Masons of Charleston .
In bis Report on Correspon dence Bro. CHARLICS INGLEBBY reviews all the Grand
~dges of t~~ United Sta~e~ and Canada, and as a result submits a most interestnotice
mg pa~er g~v1~g the cond1~10n and progress of the world's Masonry. His
· I acts
whOse 0 ffiCla
of Cahforn1a is of the admmistr ation of Grand Master OR"E
,
n
reports
are gene~ally approve~ and bis opinions concurred in. He commends the
tic
of the different committee s, especially of J urispraden ce. He makes sympathe
reference to the death of Paet Grand Masters STKVENSON and GRITM
C
M•._ W'. •• CLAune: E. SAWYER was re-elected Grand M -•·ter.' R . •. w.A~• . HARLES
IN
INCHARLES
Bro.
dent,
Correspon
Secretary.
Grand
GLESBY was re-elected
GLESBY, Charleston .
SOUTH DAKOT A.

·
;t'he.Gran d ~ge of South Dakota held its twenty-se cond Annual Communi
w.-. FRICDEBIOK H. FILJl:tl
cation m the city of Huron June 9, 1896,- the
Gran~ Master, R.-. W.-. _GEORGE A. PICTTIGREW, Grand Secretary. Seventyt of
· t
the jurisdictio n were represente d · Tb e rune
the runety-tw o Lodges m
y- wo
.
h Id
Lod
th
of
roll
death
The
Masons.
Master
4,243
of
ip
membersh
_a
gee o
year
e
numbered thirty-two brethren.
Master
Grand
Past
Portraits of Grand Master FBICDBRICK H. FILES and
HENRY H. BLAIR, Grand Master. in 1876, are published in th·is voIume.
Th 11 d Lod
11'0 was opened ID Ample Form, with praver by the acting Grand
.~. ran
Ch ap...m.
to
G The Governor of the State, Bro. CHARLES H. SHELDON, was introduced
· t ·
t
escorted
and
BLATT
WILLIAM
Master
Grand
Past
bv
Lodge
rand
0
a sea m
'
the Gr~nd East.
'd
h
greet'
The Grand Master delivered his Address· .After a fraternal
mg, e sa1
t had
th
had
Master
Grand
of
office
the
of
duties
The
year.
busy
a
been
pas
0
greater than he expected. He had received between three and four hundred
ten
letters from seventy-tw o Lodges ; had made careful reply to all; had visited

M.-.

00::

768

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

. •
had issued two dispensatio for
Lodges and rendered upwards of fifty dec1S1ons; f various special purposes.·ns He
.
f
L dges and twenty-seve n or
.
the formation o new ~ .
. . d"ct"on
.
rte th eneral condition of the Juris i i as harmonious and satisfactory
repo
eg
d L dge the proposition of the G ran d
The Grand Master placed before the GMran . o lief without recommendation,
w·isconsm
. on. the
subject of ~ asonic re '
.
Lodge of
.
h
. ty of the proposed action.
but with an adverse op1Dion as tot e propne
tly of local importance and
The reported decisiona of the ~ra?d .M?'8ter are mos
t f special interest in another iunsdict10n.
M. W:·
no o
d
f So th Dakota elected the . • . . B ro.
At the last session the Grand Lo ge o h"u th . . the Grand Master
reports
t honorary members ip erelD,
.
.
THEODORE s. P ARVIN 0
•
d th
l of Grand Lodge, rn testihment
certificate,
un
er
e
sea
the issuance of a pare .
"tted t the distinguished brother.
f •t
t"on which was transmi
o
.
mony o i s ac i '
'
we learn that of the ninety Lodges makin~
From the Grand Secretary s Report
.
. membership and fort.y-two
returns for the year, thirty-one show an IDCreBB0 ID
show a decrease.
. .
d
me to the family of regular
an a we1co
The Grand Lodge ex tended recognition
f N
d ·and courteously requested an
1
Grand Lodges to the Grand Lodge o
ew ea an '
exchange of Represe.n~tives. h G d Lodge of Wisconsin was not concurred i~.
The relief proposition o~ t e. ran
l
t report in memory of their
The Committee on Obitnanes. mad~ :: . e 0i:~thy with sister jurisdictions
dead brethren, and in the express10n o
eir s
.
.
in the loss of eminent brethren.
. b p t Grand Master WILLIAM BLATI', who
Th Report on Correspondence 18 y as
e
., .
·ew of fifty-nine Grand Lodges.
presents a report embrac1Dg a revi b d . . t ti"on of Grand
Master STEVENS.
.
f C 1.f ia is of t e a mm is ra
.
.
His review o a i orn
"b t
ff d in memory of our illustrious
.
.
t
roval
to
the
tn
u
es
o
ere
.
He gives his earnes app
f th ir eminent services ID
the
cause
Past Grand Masters BROWNI!. and B11.LCHlIB or e
.
of Freemasonr y. f h G d Master meets bis approval, and he compliments W. ·.
The AddresR o t e ran
.
Bro. DEUPRl!.Y upon bi~ eloq~ent orati?n. f h" work and acknowledges the com·
The writer also receives kind mention or is
'
.
pliment of Bro. BLATl''S good wisheteds. G d Master. B.·. w.·. GEORGE A; PETI'l·
ran
M.·. W•·• J AMEil LEWIS was elec
C
"ttee on' Correspondence, p as t Grand
GREW was re-elected Grand Secretary.
ommi
Master WILLIAM BLA1'T, Yankton.

z

TENNESS EE.
"ts ei ht -second Annual Communication
The Grand Lodge of Tennessee held i :.. ~- GEORGE H. MORGAN, Grand
1896
29
in the city of Nashville, January •
·-d s". .::,.,, Four hundred and nine.
.
. J
B GARRETT, Gran ecre.... , ·
Master; B. · W. · ORN ·
.
ftuent Lodges were repreoented. Four.
of the four hundred and twenty-six cons i
d th
Past Grand Wardens were
M tars one Past Deputy an
ree
teen Past G ran d as
•
be h"p of17 766 Master Masons.
Th
L
dges have a mem rs i
'
in attendance.
e 0
d d . t -one brethren
were inscribed upon th e
The names of three hundre an nme
Y

death roll of the year.
N MA LOCK Grand Master, and GEORGE H.
Portraits of M.· • W.· • PHiLIP •
T th ' opening pages of the volume of
MoRG.AN, Past Grand Master, appear upon e
proceedings.
. Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand
The Grand Lodge was opened m
Chaplain.

1896.l

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

769

The M.·. W.·. F. C. GIRARD, Grand Master of Kentucky, was presented to the
Grand Master, received with the Grand Honors, and escorted to a seat in the
Grand 'East.
In his Address the Grand Master referred to the past history of the Grand
Lodge, paying fraten1al tribute to his distinguish ed predecessors, both living and
dead, and cordially greeting the brethren in attendance at their eighty-second
Annual Communication.
The Grand Master granted dispensations for unimportan t reasons, but refused
all applications for the same authorizing a re-ballot.
Among hi3 official rulings we note the following :The rejection of a candidate for Masonry does not give the Lodge rejecting him
perpetual jurisdiction over such candidate.
A brother was guilty of embezzlement in three cases. After the crime was
publicly known, before he could be disciplined, he committed suicide. The Lodge
correctly refused to accord him a Masonic bmial, not because of his suicide,
but
because of his crime.
It is not improper for a :Masonic Lodge to participate in the funeral ceremonies
of a brother entitled to Masonic burial with Knights of Pythias or other civic
societiPs or military body to which he may have belonged, the Maaonic ceremonies
to be separate from that of other bodies, and such as is prescribed the Text
Book. I take this view from what I conceive to be a proper constructioin
n of all the
law on the subject.
·
The Grand Master appointed PMt Grand Master HENRY H. INGERSOLL Chair·
man of Committee on Correspondence, to fill vac~ncy caused by the death of Bro.
WILLIAM H. MORROW.
The footprints of the dead messenger had been seen in their accustomed
walks and prominent brethren had been taken from among them, to return no
more forever. Bro. CHARI.Ell L. FuLI.ER, Grand Tyler; Bro. WM. H. MORROW,
Correspondent;· Bro. R. M. MASON and Bro. A. B. JXWl!.LL, Past Senior Grand
Wardens; Bro. GEORGE HARSH, Past Grand Sword Bearer, and Bro. Hl!.NRY R.
HOWARD, Past Senior Grand Deacon, with three hundred and ninety-one membere
of constituent Lodges, was surely a generous draft upon the Freemasons of Ten·
nessee for 1895.
The Grand Master announced the restoration of amicable relations with the
brethren on the other side of the river, and that so far as the Masons of Tennessee
were concerned "peace reigned from the rivers to the ends of the earth."
The Board of Custodians and Secretaries made an elaborate report of the con·
dition of the four hundred and twenty-six Lodges of the jurisdiction. One
Lecturer, Bro. CHARLES Coxsroox, adding that in the discharge of his duties be
had ridden one horse more than twenty-seven hundred miles.
The Committee on Jurispruden ce, in considering the Address of the Grand
Master, write their views of perpetual jurisdiction in the following forcible language:We recommend an approval of the official letter of the Grand Master to the
Grand Master of Illinois, that Tennessee does not believe in the dogma
· of per·
petual jurisdiction, and we trust that the near future may bring a satisfactory
aolution of this perplexing questi9n among the Grand Jurisdiction s of
America.
The proposition of the Grand Lodge of Colorado, referring to the Centennial
Anniversar y of the Death of G11.0RGE WASHINGTON, was heartily approved.
The following resolution was adopted and declared to be an edict of the Grand
Lodge:-

14

Proceedings of the

770

[Oct. 15,

• d ·n any subordinate Lodge in t\lis
No person shall be initia!'ed, passed for rats~ 1sale or in the sale of intoxicating
jurisdiction who is engaged m the manu acture or
liquor as a beverage.
d
.
Past Gran
Th Report on Correspondence is presented b Y th e Chainnan
.
'
Maste: HENRY H. INGll:BSOLL, who says, by way of introduction :.
.
.
n and the death of another dunng
By reason of the resigna~1on .of our cha1rma 'tuterl till last December, when
the past year, the present comf!11ttee was not const1 with the fraternal aid of Bro.
the present chairman was appomte?, anf consen~e~bich should review all proceed Walton to undertake the preparat10C o a repob resented the last report in 1894.
in s rec'eived since the death of ;Br 0 : onnor, w 0 ten thousand pages of proceedTfis entailed upo'! us the exammatd1on ff more th sncompelled us to work hurriedly,
ings before preparmg OU}" repor~, an , o course, a
and to ourselves, unsat1sfactonly.

!

~is

,th~~~:::s::a~~~::l;f ~::~~ ~:~t~:: ~=:::;t~

review of California is for
STEVENS. Grand Master ORME sh
.
f th Grand Master upon the soctal
tee specially t e views o
e
.
approved. H e no . e
He takes a shot at our physical perfecfeatures as a factor m Lodge attendanc?. B
CONNOR'S plan of determining a
tion requirements, probably remembermgts. r~e ·oins us in sympathy for the loss
doubtful cQlle by a system of measuremen b"
d \ation for the Grand Orator's
of our first Grand Master, and expresses ts a m1
(Bro. NILES SEARLS) Address. .
J •
d ce are mentioned as "opinions
The reports of the Committee on hur~spru en th•t one wishina an exhaustive
.
b
ry competent c airman, so •
"
carefully written y aMve .
stions can find no better source than the proceedtreatment of current a.some que
ings of Califon:1ia."
r t . ·(i to the ability and faithfulness of our dead
A well merited comp imRn isWpai
C B CRll:B Grand Master STEVENS'
Brother and Past Grand Master ILLIAM .. EL
,
B
B LCRER is admired and endorsed.
. d
eulogy of ro •. E
h d . l of the riirht of a Lodge to use the funds receive
In commentmg <>n t e ema
.
Bro lNGEBSOLL observes:
for rent of a ball in it~ building! for s~?1a!hri::.::se~o doth the Grand Lodge of
"E~en ~s ~ father ~ides a~d d1:~c~ t~: closing ;f a short notice of the action of
Caltforma its subordmates. A l
t f Master WALTER CAREY WILCOJI;, he
Grand Lodge in the care and deve opmen o
.
a.rd' hi "
s. "A fitting consummation to this long and faithful gu '.a~. ~ • JORN B.
say
W.•• PHILIP N. MATLOCK was elected Grand Master , • • · •

M...

G.~RBETT was re-elected Grdand Sepcretat;;:~nd Me.ster GEORGE H. MORGAN, CookeChe.innan of Correspon ence,

ville.

as

TEX.AB.

fT

held its sixtieth Annual Communication in the city of
The Grand Lodge o exa=.. • W:. Gus GA.BRISON, Grana :Master ; R ... W." JORN
Houston December S, 1895,-m. • • •
WJ.TSON, Grand Secretary.
on its roll five hundred and ninety-four active
The Grand Lodge ofT~xas bear\u~aster Masons. Three hundred and seventy·
Lodges, with a membership of 26 •81
t
. 0 Ten Past Grano Masters were
two Lodges were represented at th.e pre~e:ins:::~: ~ister Grand Jnrisdictions. The
in attendance, and the Representatives o
. cn'bed upon the death roll for the
d d eight brethren are ms
names of four h nu dre an
M
. Dt"stn"cts each district being super·
· d" · d d · to sixty-two asomc
·
year. The St~te .1s 1v1 e IDGrand Master; the condition' is healthy,
for the Grand
vised by a D1atr1ct Deputy
r Lod e bad paid its dues.
Secretary informs the Grand Lodge that eveOy
g d nee M. W:. Tso>1AS M.
Past Grand Master and Chairman of orrespon e
• • . • '.
MATTHEWS, represents California near the Grand Lodge of Texas.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oali/ornia.

711

The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chap·
lain.
In his AddreBB the Grand Master gives the brethren fraternal greeting, and wel·
comes them to the pleasures and la.hors of tbe session. He predicts for the future
~ permanent prosperity and invokes from them renewed zeal and undiminished love
tor the great principles of Freemasonry.
Sixteen Lodges, chartered at the last Annnal Oomruunfcation, were constituted
upon the close of the session.
Fourteen corner-stones were placed with accompanying ceremonies during the
year, and the Grand :Master gave permiBBion to thirty Lodges to publicly install their
officers.
Under the bead of Foreign Relations the Grand Master gives mnch information of
great valne concerning :Masonry in Mexico; it is exceedingly desirable as being the
fullest "in detail" of any account we have heretofore beard of the :Masonic status
of the Gran Dicta Sim bolica of :Mexico.
From the Grand Secretary's statistical table we learn that of the 26,841 affiliated
:Master Masons in Texas ~igbt hundred and eighty-nine use profane language,
seventy-one are gamblers and four bnndred and nineteen drink too much whiskey.
They have 1,467 widows of Master Masons, of whom ninety.five are destitute, and
1,638 orphans, of whom one hundred and sixteen are destitute. Four hundred and
five Lodges own their own building; the valne of real estate and buildings is $428,·
480.00, on which property Insurance is maintained for $191,036.00.
M." W.·. Bro. N ATRJ.NIBL GaEBNR CURTIS represents the Grand Lodge of Texas
near the Grand Lo~ge of California.
One mourning page in the volume ia devoted to the memory of the four hundred
and eight Master Masons "whose bodies we have returned to mother earth and
whose spirits have penetrated the mvsterious future since last we met.''
California's representative, Past Grand Master and Chairman of Correspondence,
M.·. W.'. Bro. TBO>IAS M. MATTHEWS, again presents the report, in which be reviews the doings of fifty Grand Lodges, commenting upon their legislation in a con·
servative fraternal spirit and giving bis views upon the few questions of real interest
now engaging the attention of the Fraternity.
Bro. MATTBllWB' notice of California is for the administration of Grand Master
OBHE. He first notices the reported illneBB of Paet Grand Master CURTIS and ex·
presses a fervent desire for bis recovery. We are glad to assure Bro. M.t.TTHllWS
that their representative Is fully restored to health, and remains with us to advise
and guide the organization be has done so much to build up. He makes sympathetic allusion to the death of Po.st Grand :Masters STEVENSON and GBITlllAN. ·
Bro. MATTHEWS concurs in the action of the Grand Lodge on the Wisconsin
proposition relating to the dispensing of Masonic relief. He thinks the amendment
to the provision for restoration of members suspended for non-payment of dnes,
where delay has been made in such payment for the period of two years, that
subjects the applicant to ordeal of a ballot before restoration, to be a miatake. We
agree with Bro. MATTHEWS and think with him that the conditions heretofore imposed by him were quite as onerous as they should be ; we regret the action.
Bro. M.t.TTRBWS "now concurs" also in our action on the expenditure of Lodge
funds for social purposes. On that question we have no doubt but that the action
of the Grand Lodge will be fully sustained by an increased interest in Lodge association that will many times repay the cost of the experiment; and then, Bro. MATTHEWS,
It's a sort of 'Vindication of the right of a Mason so long as he pays bis debts and
keeps out of jail (which means "in good standing"), to the nee and enjoyment of
his own money. Thanks for kind words, Bro. M.

772

Procudings of the

[Oct. 15.

M.·. w... B. R. ABBBNATHY was elected Grand Master j B ••• w... J OHN wATSON
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Chairman of Correspondence, Past Grand Master TlloHAS M. MA'l'TllEWS, Athens.
UTAH.

The Grand Lodge of Utah held its twenty-fifth Annnal Commnnication in the city.
of Salt Lake Jannary 21st, 1896,- M.·. W.·. ALVIN CHARLES ElllERSON, Grand Maste.r ,
.B.•. W: •. CHRISTOPHEB DncHL, Grand Secretary. The nine Lodges of the jnrlsdic·
tion were represented. Six Past Grand :Masters and two Past Grand ~ardens were
in attendauce, with the Representatives of thirty sister Grand Lodges, mcln.ding ?al·
ifornia. The Lodges of Utah have a membership of seven hnndred and thirty-eight
Master Masons. Eleven names were inscribed upon the death·roll for the year.
With thanks to the Great Architect for the privilege, the Gra~d :ii:aster ex~ended
a fraternal welcome to the assembled brethren and invoked bis aid m the dnt1es and
deliberations of the session. Of the condition of the Craft he had the assarance
from all that harmony prevailed an•ong the brethren, as also among ~e L~dges.
That Masonry had been affected by the general depression was t me; bat it . was
eqaally trae that i'8 growth for the past year had been ste~dy _and heal~hy, w1~h a
marked improvement in the qaallty of the material presentmg it~elf ~or msp~ction.
The Grand Master reports in words of commendi.tion the entbas1a.stic dev~tion t~
their :Masonic daties manifested by the membership of their several MasoDJC fam1·
lies.Before proceeding to the consideration
·
· ht d eman d th e1r
·
of snch bas1ness
as mig
ttention he reported the names of the several departed brethren " who had entered
1
:pon tbe honors and awards conseqaent upon their teachings and practices here
"
The Grand Lodge had been called apon but once to mourn the loss of a
b l
· · hi mm
· Praise and
r e kow.
·nits fraternal chain of membership, and he asked a JI to JOID
.
t:an~sgiving to the Supreme Ruler for his mer~y ~n permitting their "commg
together'' at the Qaarter Centennial of their Hasomc hfe.
.
. . :
The Grand Masler visited, with two exceptions, the Lodges m hi~ J~r1sd1c.t!on.
He notes some irregnlarities in matters of the observance of. the jarls~ict1onal r1g~ts
of Lodges and in the ballotings. He also reports a complamt investigated by him,
made by the Board of Relief (or Doric Lodge) of San Francisco, against Waaatch
Lodge, and in reporting his conclusions, says :I deeply regret the occurrence of anything of this kiad, but believe these issaes
must be met when raised, and our daties never shirked, no matter how onerous or

unpf~~'::jdt :~:;;e ~~yn~e~ther conclusion a~ter carefully reading all the papers and
ondence in the case than the following :.
corTh: specific information given Dorio Lodge was that tbe brother was entitled to

all ~;e ~e:i:~~j i~r!r~~~~d :; ~o~d~da;! !':~~~t Wasatch Lodge desired it to do
b the brother as Waaatch Lodge itself. woald ~a_ve ~one.
y The absence of any specific instracu_on or hmi.ta.bons fr?m W aaatoh J,odgi: gave
D · Lodge the right to believe that it was demed that 1t should proceed m the
~r as it did and as "was customary" with It, ta.king the l_ette~ and ~le gram r!l·
fe~red to as being all that Wasatch Lodge had to say, and as imphedly giving JJomi
Lodge foll discretion.
That in the absence of instructions to the contrary, Waaatoh Lodge canno t su bse·
tly bind Doric Lodge to the same detail of arrangements and e;z:penses cu.stom·
q~e~n Its own conduct of like affairs, and it mast consider that Dof'.'C Lodge did not
!/ceed implied instructions, and did nothing more than one Masonic body would do
to anotber, or one Maeon to auother•
.
'
.t d
That Wasatoh Lodge has now no r ight to say that Dono Lodge commit e any
asonlc act or did anything that should be stigmatized as such, and cannot law·
refase to pay the foll amoaut uf the claim presented which Wasatch Lodge was
ordered to do.

¥:ii;

1896.]

Grand Lod/Je of OaJ,ifornia.

773

The Committee OD Jurisprudence, to whom was referred so much of the Grand
.Master's AddreBB as pertained to the payment of a claim made by Doric Lodge, of
San Francisco, against Waaatoh Lodge, of Utah, recommended that the Grand Mas·
ter's action be approved "in directing Wasatch Lodge to pay Doric Lodge, No. 216,
at San Francisco, In fall for burying one of its members." The report was concurred
in by Grand Lodge.
Honors for Bro. CHRISTOPHER DIBHL.
Bro. CHRISTOPHEB DIEHL presents his twentieth Report on Oorrespondence, a
very Interesting review of the doings of ftfty-1!1.1: Grand Lodges. He commences
with a most bearty congratulation of Alabama for its abuntlant prosperity. His
words are almost oatching In their good wishe~. He says, of course thinking all the
time of Bro. PILLA.NS:Money Rtringency and business stagnation, so prevalent during the past few years
throughout the Union, has not even t onched the State of Alabama. There the farmers have been blessed with abundant harvest and the business men have been prosperous. Ia it a wonder that the Grand Master, In the opening of his Address, r ej oices
over the state of affairs existing in his jnrisdiction, and if it ts a fact that the prosperity of Masonry runs parallel with the prosperity of the country in which it exists, is
it a wonder that in Alabama the membershir has increased, that new Lodges have
been formed, that a genuine spirit of revlva has been infusod, and that the Craft is
prosperoas? Happy Alabama. ! Wish we could make a like report of Utah.
Bro. DIEHL'B review of California is for the administration of Grand Master 0RHE,
from whose Address he quotes freely and in whose opinions he generally concurs.
He gives his approval to the Grand :Master's opinions and Grand Lodge legislation
npon the cnltivation of the social features in Lodge government, and quotes the
London .Freemason, which Bllys apon this snbject :The social element is so important a constit uent of our English Hasonry that for
a Lodge to ignore i~ existence is almost invariably fatal.
Bro. DIEHL notes the departnre of our Gra.nd Masters 8T&VEN80lf and GBlTllAlf
in appropriate terms.
The Report of the Grand Secretary, he says, is a complete record of the work of
his office. .B.•• W. •. Bro. J OllllBON knows his duties and performs them to the satis·
faction of his brethren.
M.·. W. •• WILLIA.II THOMAS DALBY was elected Grand Master ; B. •. W.·. CHRIS·
TOPHEB DIEHL was re-elected Grand Secretary. Chairman of Correspondence,
R.•, W.·. CHRISTOPHBB DIRHL, Salt Lake City.
VERMONT.

The Grand Lodge of Vermont held Special Sessions for the dedication of Halls
May 12, 1896, at L.adlow ; May 14, 1896, at Barre ; May 27, 1896, at Lydonville, and
May 28, 1896, at St. Albans; a nd in its one hundred nod third Annual Oommunication, in the city of Barlington June 10th, there were present ,-M.·. W.'. KITTRBDGE
HASKINS, Grand Master ; B. ·• W. •, WARBRN G. REYNOLDS, Grand Secretary. Of the
one hundred and one Lodges in the jarisdlctiou eighty-one were represented. Thirtyfour sister Grand Lodges were represented, Past Grand Master GBORGI! W. WING of
llontpelier responding for the Grand Lodge of California.
An elegant steel portrait of Past Grand Master LAVA.BT M. R&AD, who was
tixecutive head in the years 1878-79~, ornaments the opening page.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
After uniting with the Grand Chaplain in than-ks to the Sapreme Ruler for t he
blessings of the past, the Grand Master proceeded to the consideration of the bnsiness of the year; first pausing to direct the attention of the brethren t o the vaca nt

[Oat.. 15,

Proeeroings of the

774

seats in their midst and read from the record the names of those who, "touched by
the hand or death bad fallen asleep." After a loving tribute to their own kindred
and brethren, he reported the names or illnstrione brethren who bad been called
from Important and .responsible stations In sister jnriedictions, and In obedience to
the summons had passed to eternal rest. We note the name or onr own Paet Grand
Master, Bro. WILLIAM c; BBLOBBB, a native eon of Vermont, in the list.
The Grand Master reported the carrying ont of the instrnctlons of Grand Lodge
JOHN H. WBlPPLB,
in the presentation of a Past Grand Master's Jewel to !£.'.
and bis very happy and fraternal reepon~e.
No important decisions were reported by the Grand Master, he finding it only
necessary in reply to many qnestlons to refer to decisions of bis predecessors and
the action of the Grand Lodge. He says, however :-

w.·.

I reoognize the fact that the Grand M&eter is the servant, as well as the official
head, of tlJe great body of Masons in the State, and that the communications received
from each individna.1 brother are entitled to that respectfnl consideration which I
have endeavored to give them.
In commenting npon the result of the District meetings and their value to the
Fraternity, where the District Deputy is the'' right man in tberight place," be makes
·some timely suggestion- hints that are al ways in order. He says,_
The step·ladder process which some snbordloate Lodges practice in choosini their
Lodges from year to year, Is not always for the best interest of the Lodge or of tbe
Institntlon of Masonry. A brother, no matter bow clever or popnlar be may be with
the members or bis Lodge, unless be is an earnest Mason, constant in bill attendance,
can see a reason for and beauty in every form and gradation, baa no right to expeot
promotion to office.
The Grand Master visited officially every District, except one, with the Grand
Lecturer.
The Fraternity are taking great Interest in the erection of their Masonic Temple
in the city of Burlington, of which we note an illnstration in this volume, · The
design presenta a fine appearance, and when the building is oompleted, with the ·
American flag flying, the brethren may form chain and sing:Let us join in songs of praise,
That a Temple here we raise;
Hoping ages hence 'twill prove
A Home for charity and love.
An interesting report was made by the Grand Lecturer, showing that attention
to details which mark the energetic, conscientlons officer.
Full reports of the condition of the Lodges were made by twelve of the thirteen
District Deputy Grand Maaters in the jnrlsdiction, and the general verdict of committees and Grand Lodl{e is harmony and prosperity.
The death roll of the year had inscribed npon it the names of one hnndred and
forty-five brethren. Number of affillawd Maater Masons, 9,69.£.
Past Grand Master MARSH 0. PBRKil'IS, as chairman, presents the Report on Correspondence, in which be reviews the doings of fifty-two Grand Lodges, extracting
from the mass snob items as are or general Interest to the Craft. .
His review of California is for the lidministraLion of Grand Master STEVENS, whose
Address reoeives bis approval. He notes with sympathetic comment the death of
Past Grand Masters BBOWNB and BELCBBR, and pays eloquent tribute to Bro.
WILLLUl CALDWELL BELCHER, who was a native of Vermont and the Representativ e
of the Grand Lodge or Vermont near the Grand Lodge of California. Tbe Grand
commended,
Mast~r's performanoe of duty in the visitation of bis oonstitnents is
Bro. JoBNSON's work, as Grand Seoretary, is complimented , the action cf the

•

1896.J

Grand Lodge of California.

775

Boards of Reli~f quote~ with a~proval, and Grand Lecturer Busa given full credit
for spreading hght and 1Dstruct1on where it is most needed in the back districts.
. Bro. PEBXINS is in accord with this writer In condemning the publication of the
r.1tnal In any language.
Under Idaho, he notes the acceptance of the Grand Lodge of Idaho to attend
lecture on free sil_ver by Hon. W. J. BBYAN or Nebraska, and then the member:
ac~epted ~.nother Invitation to go to prison and eat melons. He says, to paraphrase
They tied the Ills they bore to fly to others they knew not of." And he
a httle:
adds:We tsinbcerely hope _they were freed from prison rules and melancholy diet in
seba~obn o ear.the admirable address of the Grand Orator, W.·. Bro. BTKVBNSON'
seems srngnlariy appropriate for ibe occasion.
1c
w
We have heard of "cn~tlng a watermelon" to add to attractions of a private
party, bot never knew of its nse in diverting a Grand Lodie of Masons from the
regular order of bnslness before,
Under I~diana, Bro. PERX'!Ns says, speaking of Bro. WrLX.U.M Co1n1:0Ns, Chairman of Indiana Corresponde nce:d
He objects to the use of tbe word "Order" as applied to Freemason
likewise 0V~ 0:~ 0
!?slats t~~t " Fr~ter?}ty" .Is t~e correct term to be employed. We trne
Ver
word."~
only
"the
Ord~r, bat tbrnk_ lost1tnt1on," not" Fraternity," is
etlarly ID 0nr Masomc career we were informed or the design of the Masonlo InstitJ.
on, not 0 rder or Fraternity.

Wbil~ al{re~in~ with my distinguished co-laborers in the field of corresponden ce as
to the ".11sappl_1oat100 or the Order in connection with Freemasonry , our impressions
are decidedly ID favor of the word Fraternity as representativ e of the Sooiety of Free
~nd :Aooepte~ Masons in the Symbolic and Royal Arch degrees, and anti! the student,
m his pursuit of knowledge, may apply for the "Orders " of Red Cross and the
Temple: As a general definition of Americaa Freemasonry , we know of no word so
e.irpress1ve and Masonic as Fraternity.
Under Louisiana, we find a few lines which we desire to " emphasize" by qo tin
"with all the meaning which the iangnage implies," the following from the ex~ert
ence of JoHN Qumoy ADAMS FELLOws, one of the most eminent or Masonic jnrists :we
h W~e~ever we find prosperity, tb_e social feature bas been promioP.nt, Of this the
be
ave a mncb to Ba,)". and select. ID oar former reports. Sooiaiity need tomatters
local
rule and the want of 1t the exception lo all our Lodge meetings. Ail
of government were left freely to the Lodges, but recently the tendency Is more and
moJie ffr Gran~ Lodges ~o absorb ~Ii power and the Fraternity cease to have freedom
of their own business. Everything is to be done by roles enacted
Ibn Ge radnLsacdt10n
o ge.
y ran
M. •• W. •• Kt'ITBEDGE HASKINS was re-elected Grand MllBter • R - W. • WARDEN
' . • ••
O. RRYNOLDS was re-elected Grand Secretary.
M.-. JV>. MARSH 0. Pll:RXINS, Chairman ofOorrespond ence, Windsor.
VICTORIA.
T1he Uni.led Grand Lodge of Victoria held a Quarterly Communication at Freemasons Hali in the city of Melbourne September 16, 1896,-the M.·. W.·. Sir WILLIAK
J. CI.ARKS, Bart, Grand Master; v.·. W.·. JOHN BRA.DI, Grand Secretary. There
was a large attendance of M&Sters, Past Masters and Wardens of several Lodges
'
wltb the Gr~d .Bepresentati ves of twenty-five other jurisdictions,
·
Commun1cat1ons were received from tbe sister Grand Lodges of w·rsconsm,
Maine, Chili and Hamburg,

776

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

The United Grand Lodge of Victoria held a second Qnarterly Communication at
Freemasons' Hall in the oity of Melbonrne December 16, 18&5,-M.·. W.·. Sir
WILLI~ J. OLARKR, Bart, Grand Master; V.·. W;·. JOHN BBAI.H, P. G. Reg. Grand
Secretary. Representatives of thirty-three sister Grand Lodges were in attendance.
There were present the Grand Stewards of the year and the Masters, Past Masters
and Wardens of several Lodges. · Eighty.five Lodges were represented.
A letter of thanks was received from Bro. R. W. V. SCHNEIDER for appointment
as GrAnd Representative at New York of this Grand Lodge. Bro. C. H. Qmi:NZBL
acknowledged receipt of patent as.Grand Representative of this Grand Lodge near
the Grand Lodge of West Virginia.
VIRGINIA.
The Grand Lodge of Virginia held its one hundred and eighteenth Annnal Commnoication In the city of Richmond Dec!lmber 3, 1895,-M.·. W.·. J. P. FITZGERALD,
Grand Master ; B.·. W. •. J. V. Broooon, Grand Secretary. One hundred and nioet)'
of the two bnndred and sixty·two chartered Lodges were represented. Representatives from twenty-one sister Grand Lodges were In attendance. There were six
Past Grand MB8ters present.
A portrait of the late Grand Secretary, Bro. WH. B. Isuos, who was also a
leader lo all the Grand Masonic Bodies nf Virginia, is noted upon the opening page.
The Fraternity of Virginia number 12,572 affiliated MB8ter Masons.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
With thanks to God, whose watobfnl care had preserved them to meet in Annual
Oommonication, the Grand Master welcomed the aRsembled brethren to the duties
and labors of the one hundred and eighteenth session of the Grand Lodge.
Before proceeding to the business for which they bad come together he felt that
be most refer to the forms and faces not In their accustomed places to·day. He who
bad so faithfully served the Craft at his post of duty and who bas been the colllmn
of strength for the reliance of successive Grand MasterR, bas passed away. WY.~ B.
ISAACS bas gone to his reward. Bro. FBANOIS A. RKKD, Grand Senior Warden, bad
also joined the great majority and pnssed to that undiscovered country from whose
bonrne no traveler retnrns. The Grand Master paid loving and aff'ectionate tribute
to the departed brethren and recommended the preparation of appropriate memorials for the distinguished dead to be placed of record in the archives of the Grand
Lodge.
The Grand Master reports pleasant relations existing with all other Grand Lodges.
Dispensations had been granted for the formation of five new Lodges. The Com•
mittee on the Address of the Grand Master, or so much thereof as refers to certain
correspondence between himself and the Grand Masters of Jllinois and Pennsylvania,
sustain the opinion and action of the Grand Master of Virginia as follows:Tha Grand Master re_port.q a correspondence between himself snd the Grand
M88ters of Illinois and P ennsylvania np•m matters involving the statns of rej ected
candidates for initiation. The Grand Master does not recognize as valid any claim
of a Lodge of perpetnal jnriFdiction over rejected profane~. In this, hi• views are
in foll conformity to what we regard as the establi•hed Masonic Jaw of Virginia. and
we entirely approve the action of the Grand MB8ter and the reasons assigned by him
for It. We deplore the ignorance of the laws of this Grand Lodge and of Masonic
propriety on the part of a brother of one of onr snbordinate Lodges which led to
the communications from the Grand Masters of Nebraska and Wisconsin reported
by the Grand Master. His action In the matter set>ms to ns to have been eminently
wise, and while pronouncedly firm in its vindication of the violated law, it was
tempered with that discreet charity which is so characteristic of the tenets of our
Order aud of the sonnd head and good heart of our Grand Master.
The names of two bnndred and tiny.six brethren are inscribed on the death roll
of this jnrisdictlon for the year 1895.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oaliforwia.

777

The jurisdiction is divided Into fifty districts, each under the supervision of a
District Deputy Grand Master. The" Grand Working Committee" is composed of
five competent brethren, appointed by the Grand Master, who, with the Grand
Lecturer and the fonr Division Lecturers, constitnte the Grand Workiog Committee.
J. P. FITZGERALD was re·elected Grand Master; B.·. W.·. GEO. w.
. M.-.
CAaBINOTON was elected Grand Secretary.
M.·. W.·. W. F. D1m1KABD, Chairman of Correspondence, Richmond.

w.·.

WASHINGTON.
The Grand Lodge of Washington held its thirty-ninth Annnal Commnnication in
the city of Seattle Jone 9, 1896,-M.·. w.·. W111. WALLAOB WITHEBSPOOl'I, Grand
MB8ter; B.'. W:·. THos. MrLBURNK Run, Grand Secretary. Ninety-six chartered
Lodges, with a membership of ,,,91. Ninety-four Lodges represented at this Commnnication. Names on the death roll of the year, sixty-fonr. Thirteen Past Grand
JI.asters, two Past Deputies and fonr Past Grand Wardens were in attendance.
An address of welcome was delivered on behalf of the Masons and the city of
Seattle to the Grand Lodge by Bro. A. M. BURNS, which was ably responded to by
the R.'. W.•. Junior Grand Warden, Bro. STBVEN J. CHADWIOlt.
The Grand Master delivered his Annual Address, first giving the brethren a
cordial welcome to their permanent home in the "Queen Oity " of Washington and
retnrning personal thanks for the confidence reposed in his administration of the
Interests of Grand Lodge and predicting its fntnre progress and prosperity. Before
reporting his official action, however, be paused to deposit his sprig of acacia upon
the " new made monnds " in their city of the dead, and record his tribnte or respect
and aff'ection to the memories of the brethren who had passed to rest. After naming
their own kindred and brethren he reported from the death roll the names of eml·
nent brethren of sister jurisdictions who have passed to the great beyond daring the
year.
Foor dispensations for the formation of new Lodges were issued.
Grand Lodge placed the corner·stone of the New State Normal School, October
15, 1895.

From the report of the Committee on Obitnaries we quote the following notice
of the passing away of an illustrious and aged Mason:Bro. W.W. UPTON was born in New York Joly 11, 1817, and died in Washington,
D. 0 ., Jannary 23, 1896. He was made a. Master Me.son in Michigan before 1850;
received the Capltnlar, Cryptic and Templar degrees In California a few years Jster,
and also was a tblrty·thlrd degree Mason of the Scottish Rite. He succeeded illnstriou1 Bro. ALBBRT PIKE as Pre•ideut of the Masonic Veteran Associati•>n of the
District of Oolnmbia. He occnpied the position of Chief Justice of the State of
Oregon at one time, and afterward was comptroller of the treasury under President
Har.es.
Thns pass the lights of Masonry and of men and we are left to mourn.
The venerable departed brother was tba father of Bro. W. R. UPTON, Past Grand
Orator of the Grand Lodge of WB8bington.
The third degree was exemplified by Arcana Lodge, No. 87, for Grand Lodge
benefit, and thanked therefor.
Bro. W. H. UPTON, the all around nsefol workman, either at correspoudence,
Jlri1prudence, "orating'' or standing in the West, is Chairman of the Code Revision
Commission and prese nted the report of the work of the commission. Io the consideration thereof some slight changes were made, after which the revised code, as
amended, was adopted by the reqnisite constitutional vote, and the thanks of Grand
Lodge extended to Worshipful Bro. WILLIAY. H. UPTON for his painstaking labor.

778

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

We ooogratolate the Grand Lodge or Wasblogtoo upon its choice ror. Graod
Mester, confident that illustrious Bro. BLALOOK will so discharge the duties of bis
high office that be shall win fame and Grand Lodge profit thereby.
REPORT ON CoRBBSPONDENOE.
The report or this able committee, which has for so mauy yearR illuminated the
pages of the Washington journal of proceedings, is again presented by Paet Grand
Master Taoll:A.S MrLBUBNE REED, its veteran Chairman. Bro. REED tells oe be has
been impeded In his work by severe and painful bodily af!lictioo, so that in its com·
pletioo he found it necessary to rely op on the assistance of bis vigorous and brilliant
young friend, Bro. W111. H. UPTON, who places bis mark upon each piece or work
executed by him. Bro. REED says tbc retention of the chairmanship i~ not the result
of a request on bis part. He desired Bro. UPTON to continue in the discharge of the
duties of the position be had filled so ably with entire satisfaction to the whole
Fraternity and great credit to himself. as Bro. REED says: "Bis work of last year.
was received by the most prominent and lotelliitent of the Masonic Fraternity in
America and Europe with tlattering tokens of appreciation and commendation."
Bro. R11:1m's review of California is for the administration of Grand Master JA.HEB
B. STEVENS, firYt giving a sympathetic aocoont of tbe mournful and sorrowful session
held to pay the last tribute of reepeot and affection to onr Most Worshipful WILLIA.II
CALDWELL BELCHER. He also joins with the Grand Master in his eulogistic words
of the character and worth of the other Grand Master , the illustrious Mason, citizen
11nd soldier, Bro. JOHN MILLS BROWNE.
Bro. REED says:The Grand Lodge of Oaliforoia, apparently, still oontlooes to experience difficulties ove.r t~e .question of tbe rights generally conceded to oon-aftlliates by other
(}rand Jnr1sd1ct10ne, to apply for affiliation with Lodges in tbat jurisdiction. The
fault is evidently with the law. Is It not too restrictive 7 Does it not infringe upoo
Masonic equity and the rights of a Freemason?
It is not geoerlll, Bl'O. REED. We have instaoceY of dissatisfaction here in the
matter of affiliation, bot it Is not from arbitrary requirements or offensive restriction
in the law; it is friction that will always occur; where there is an unosoally large
Lodge and tloaocially very healthy, it will be the ardent desire of about two-thirds
of the brethren desiring to affiliate to join that Lodge. It's a matter .-if th~ family's
deciding whether they will take another boarder or not, and you can't deny them
the right to decide that proposition. No, Bro. REED, there's oo ooosoal friction
here, l\nd we don't think we infringe upon Masonic equity or the rights of a Freemason. We do hope to see the affiliation fee wiped out-in fact we are In favor of
any legislation that will Jessen non-affiliation or t ..ao&form non·af!lliates into " Jive
links" in tbe fraternal chain by which M~eons are bonod together. We think our
Grand Lodge bas made a serious mistake in placing the least obstruction in tbe
restoration of any Mason auepended for noo·paymeot of dues, be the lapse two years
or twenty.
·
Several eminent brethren- writers of M.isoolc correspondence- seem to see nothing but arbitrary trespass upon Masonic rights in our non-affiliate legislation. Take the
section referred to by Bro. REED, Sec. 8 of Art. 6, Part 6 of the Constitution, which
provides that a member suspended for non·payment of does may restore himself by
a cQompanylog bis petition with 1>0 amount equal to six mouths does of the Lodge
to which he petitions. The provision was adopted more than thirty years ego and
was for the benefit of the army of non-affiliates with which California was overran.
The section was an idea of Bro. ALEX. G. ABELL, providing, as be thought, a way
for the non-affiliates of California to return to Lodge duties and privileges. Many a
brother, from the vicissitudes incident to mining life in a new coon try, allowed bis

1896.J

Grand Lodge of California.

779

does to accomolate, and In cooseqoenoe our records were overloaded with members
etrickeo from the rolls for non-payment of does, and Bro. ABBLL1S idea was to provide a way for their retntn to duty by the payment of a som not BO large es to be
)>ordensome, by which indebtedness in sums of from $10 to $100 was wiped ont and
they were given the chance to again become osefol mem hers of the Fraternity, In
ll()me particulars it was a general bankrupt Jaw for the benefit of non-af!lliatee who
bad been droppefl from the roll for noo·pnyment of does, and aft'orded the needed
relief to the great majority and was of decide!! benefit to oor Grand Lodge. We
have never wished to see it rescinded.
We have been a close observer of Lodge and Grand Lodge leg,slation during
forty.five years residence and affiliation with the Masone of California and know the
troth of what we a3sert when we write that the rights of individual Masons have ever
been aealonsly guarded, and we therefore protest that" Masonry for revenue only ' '
is not a California production, and Is neither approved or tolerated by the Fraternity
in theory or practice • .
A. very kind notice is given of oor Rep on oo Oorreepondence and we need hardly
assure our Washington brethren that we folly 11ppreciate their words of approval,
and give their critical comments our earnest oonsideratioo.
M.·.
YA.NOEY OBA.WFOBD was elected Grand Master; B.·.
Taos. Mn.BURNE REED"was re-elected Grand Secretary.

w.·.

w.·.

WEST VIRGINIA.
Six Special Communication@ of the Grand Lodge of West Virginia were held
during the year-the first for the placing of the corner-stone of the school·booee in
the town of Oameroo, Marshall county, on June 2i, 1895 ; the second for the placing
of the corner-stone of the Protestant Episcopal Church of Weetoo; the third for the
placing of the corner-stone of the Masonic Temple, in the city of Obarleetoo, on
August 10th ; the fourth for the plaoiog of the corner-stone of a library building in
Fairmount, Marion county, on Aogoet 17th: the firth for the placing of the cornerstone of the Olty Building, in the city of Parkersburg, on September 6th; the sixth
for the placing of the corner-stone of the soldiers' monument in Kingwood on N ovember 7th. Tbe ceremonies were performed in foll and in the presence of large
assemblages of the Fraternity.
The thirty-first Anonal Communication of this Grand Lodge was held In the city
ol Oharleston, November 12, 1895,-tbe M.'. W.·. G. W. FEIDT, Grand Master, the
R.·. W:·. GEORGE W. AT.llNBON, Grand Secretary. Ninety-nine of the one hundred
and seven Lodges in the jurisdiction were represented. The membership in West
Virginia is 5,567. Twenty sister Grand Jurisdiction~ were represented, and there
were five Past Grand Masters in attendance.
Reports were received from the Grand Lecturer and bis Deputies and from the
District Deputy Grand Masters of the various districts.
Past Grand Master GEORGE E. TaOBNBURG and Bros. Mroe.&.llL E11sa E1111EB and
CYBus S. MCKENSIE were appointed a special committee to consider the advisability
of establishing: a Masonic Home for the care of helpless Mason•, their widows and
orphans, to r eport their conclusions at the next session of the Grand Lodge.
Bro. KEPHART D. WA.LKEB, of Fairmont, California's representative, was not heard
from at the present session.
A jolly, good·looklng portrait of the Grand Lecturer, Bro. 0YRUS S. MoKENBIE,
appears in this volume. We vote him the proper kind of a cypher for the dissemination of Masonic work in West Vir$1nla.
Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary GEORGE W. ATKINSON presents the

780

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

Report on Correepondeooe-ao elaborate paper or more than two hundred and fifty
pages. Bro. A. gives a very thorough review or the legislation of the Masonic
world. His notice or California ie for the admioietratiol)B of Grand Masters ORM&
and STEVENS. He eaye of our opening: ''A choir opened the session by eiogiog a
Te Deurn; a beautiful custom, bot an unusual one io a Masonic Body." Not noneual
on this side, Bro. ATKl!iBON, with us. A.~ moch attention ie given to the music for
the opening ceremonies of the Grand Lodge as for Easter service at the various
churches. Oar Grand Organist and Musical Director, Colonel SAMUEL D. MAY&B,
with his unrivaled qaartette, always presents some musical creation in keeping with
the occ&>1ion-somethiog grand and powerful. The effect is always perceptible in its
harmonious influence upon the assembled brethren, and separates, as with a. wall,
the sanctum sa1wlorum of Grand Lodge from the basioeee world.
'
Bro, ATKINSON quotes freely from the Grand Maeter'e Addreee, lo whose opinions
he generally concurs; excepting, however. to the" making over" of our Bro. DAVID
B. MCFAUL, whose remembrances of bis admission fifteen years eiooe were so dim
that oot even the faintest resemblance of the letter G could be fonod on bis anatomy .
Bro. A. eaye the decision of the Grand Master-that " he had better be born again "
-seems ridiculous to him, as, be says, being already in, how can he aek to get in?
Many years since several cases came to the knowledge of the Grand Lodge, wbeo
there was good reason to doubt that two or three brethren who bad become affil•
iated with one or more of our Lodges bad ever received the degrees, bavin~ received
their education irregalarly, aad were suspected as being" book Masons." Whether
well founded or not, the eospeosioo led to the adoption of General Regulation 23,
which reRds as follows:No Lodge can receive aa application for a.ffiliation until tbP. applicant bas prov~n
that be ie a Master Mason to the satisfaction of the Mat1ter; bot if the applicant m
snch case is unable to make satisfactory proof, be may make application for the degrees, and, if elected, may receive the degrees, and thus become 11 member.
We think Bro. ATKINSON will see that the Grand Master made his decision simply
from the case as presented to him; and our Committee on Jorisprodeoce, io sustaining his decision, say :In the oase presented, the party desiring to affiliate presented a dimit issued by a
Lodge in the Proviooe of Ontario, Canada, to a person of his name, and stated that
he had not been inside of a Lodge for fifteen years, and was unable in any way to
satisfy the Master that he had ever been inside of one. Under the circumstances
the Lodge coald not receive the petition, because our Regulation ie positive that
"No Lodge in this jurisdiction she.II receive a.n applicant for aftlliation until the e.-pplicant shall have proved to the sa.tisfaction of the Master of such Lodge that he ie a
Master Mason." The Orand Master suggested that if he desired to become a member, and the Lod~e desired to receive him as such, he should preRent his petition for
the degrees, and being elected, have them conferred on him in a way that would
leave some wholesome impression on his memory.
Which we think Bro. ATKINSON will conclude ie good law "for this case."
Grand Master ST&VENB receives pre.lee for the large number of visitations made
during bis term •
•\£.·. w.·. JOB!i M. COLLINS was elected Grand Master; B.·. w.·. GEOllGE w.
ATKINSON was re-elected Grand Secretary. Chairman of Correspondence, G&OBGE
W. ATKINBO!i, Wheeling.
WISCONSIN.
The Grand Lodge of Wisconsin held its fifty-second Annual Communication in
the city of Milwaukee June 9, 1896,-the M.·. W.•. W. W. PKBBY, Grand Master, the
B.·. W.·. JoBN W. LAPLI!i, Grand Secretary. Two hundred and seventeen Lodges
of the two hundred and thirty-five in tha jurisdiction were represented. The two

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Ual,ifornia.

781

hundred and thirty-five Lodges have a membership of 16,408. Of Past Grand Officers in attendance there were twelve Paet Grand Masters, two Paet Deputy Grand
Masters and twenty Grand Wardens.
The death-roll for the year has inscribed upon it the names of two hundred and
fifty-six brethren..
The Grand Master gave the assembled brethren a cordial welcome to their ftftyeecood Annual Meeting, and delivered an eloquent dissertation upon the origin,
plans e.od purposes of Freemasonry and ite euooeesful progress in their jurisdiction.
Of specie.I dispensations the Grand Master granted forty-eight and refused twentyeight. One dispensation for the formation of a new Lodge was granted.
The Grand Lodge held a special session for the purpose of dedicating the hall of
La Fayette Lodge, No. 265.
Past Grand Master GABBIEL BotrcK presents the Report on Oorreepondence. He
aays:The report is made upon the theory of the origin and purpose of the Committee
on Foreign Correspondence and what it should be.
We h&ve read and digested the paper and wondered whether Bro. Bouox might
not poeeibly be mistaken in hie diagnosis of the business. He seems to be uudaly
exercised about the confusion resulting from a conflict of opinion between the correspondent and hie Royal Highness "The Grand Master." In fact we think Bro.
BoucK has uodnly magnified the evils which may be inflicted upon the Fraternity
by this irresponsible committee. Now we have the greatest respect and affection for
the Chairman of Correspondence of Wisconsin, nearly forty years a Past Grand
Master. Bis words of caution should receive the utmost consideration at the hands
of us yoongetere who are creating all tbie doubt a.nd confusion among the Craft.
Bro. BouoK cites the example of Miseieeippi in its" distinctive tribunal'' of law
and jurisprudence as evidence of the insidious encroachment upon the powers and
duties of Grand Lodge and Grand Master. All right, Bro. BouoK; so long as yon
perm.it us to share in the well-deserved reputation of that "distinctive tribunal"
with Chief Justice FBED&BICK SP&ED at ite head, you may kick a correspondent
whenever opportunity offers and you can afford it.
As to what the Report on Correspondence ·should be we are as much io the dark
as before the manifesto of Past Grand Master BOUCK. He hae outlined in a forcible
manner the positive evils of the report ae at present formulated, its presumptioii
and tendency to innovation and the creation of doubt and confusion in the Fraternity, but he has failed to inform ue of just what form and substance a proper Report
on Correspondence shall be composed; in fact, his only reference thereto is in the
last few lines, where he observes:The proposition of this Grand Lodge ae to charity, between the several jurisdi~
tions, does not meet that consideration, in most joriedictions, that in the opinion of
yonr committee it ie entitled to. It ie an important and eerioue qneetion. Thie
eommittee does not feel at liberty to make any suggestions or further reference
t)iereto, for the reason that the matter is io the hands of a special committee of this
Grand Lodge.
Ae Bro. BouoK ie continued as Chairman of Correspondence we shall probably
learn in hie next1report the true origin and purpose of the Report on Correspond·
ence.
The M.·. W.·. ALDBO JENKS wae elected Grand Master; B.·. W.·. JoB:N W. Lil'LI!i
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
WYOMING.
The Grand Lodge of Wyoming held its twenty· first Annual Communication in
the town of Rock Springs September 10, 1895,-JIC.•. W. •• JBTBBo T. Hou.mu, Grand

Proceedings of the

782

[Oct. 15,

Ma.at.er; R.·. W.·, W. L. KUYKENDALL, Grand Secretary. The representatives .of
twelve chartered Lodges were present; also Pa.at Grand Master JoHN K. JEFFREY.
This volume contains the portraits of four Pa.at Grand Masters:
Jurns
H. RAYFORD for the years 1879-80. M.·. w... NATHANIEL R. DAVlS for the years
1887-88 , M.·.
JonNC. DAVIS for189S, andM.·. W.·. JETHBOT. HOLLIDAY September, 1894, to September, 1895.
.
The Grand Lodge of Wyoming bas enrolled sixteen Lodges, with a membership
of nine hundred and seyenty-six Master Ma.sons.
'fhe Grand Master opened his Address with an acknowledgment to Divine Providence for the privilege of again assembling in annual meeting. He says :-

M.-. W.-.

w...

With a return of the country's prosperity they may confidently look forward to a
.
prosperous year in their several Lodges.
In reporting his official acts he details a correspondence with the Grand Lo<lge of
Montana in regard to the matter of jurisdiction over Yellowstone National Park,
within the boundaries of the 8tate of Montana.
The grim messenger had severed the earthly relations of seven of their brethren
with their fellow -citizens of the commonwealth with whom they bad been associated
in founding and building up the State. They knew them a.a worthy and zealous
Ma.eons and would hold them in fraternal remembrance.
The Grand Lodge at its last Annual Communication abolished the representative
system. One new Lodge, Glenrock, No. 16, was constituted during the year.
The Grand Secretary makes a valuable recommendation in urging the importance of registering their membership, a.a he says :In due time they will. be. invaluable, .and while the Lodges are comparatively
young is the time for begmnmg such registers.

w...

Our R.·.
Bro. WILLIAM L. KUYKENDALL again submits the Report on Corre·
spondenoe. He gives, in a condensed form, a valuable review of the legislation of
the Grand Lodges forming the Masonio world ; and there are no better words than
his own to express the duty of those for whom he ha.a written. We quote:. If every Past Master in Wyomiugwho receives, as he will, a copy of G~and Lod~e
proceedings, including this report. will carefully peruse the same, we beheve he W!ll
be well repaid and we shall feel th.at our l~oor !lxpended thereon ~as not been in
vain. Our principal compensation consl8ts Ill our reports bemg .read by _our
brethren. and not in the financial part o~ the transaction, as the lat~r is only shght
compensation for the laborious and particular work performed and is not expected
to meet the actual value of the labor and time spent thereon.
In his notice of California, Bro. KUYKENDALL reviews the administration of
Grand Master OR11tE, in whose opinions he generally concurs ; his exceptions being
to those made by the Grand Master in cases where he was controlled by the local law.
· Be is evidently not in sympathy with the perfect youth theory. Agrees with us
that 11 good plaoe for the Grand Master to keep his prerogatives is with his written
law, but always to avoid mistaking one for the other. Bro. KUYKENDALL says he will
accept the conclusions of" The Congress" with his own constructions.
M.·. W.-. F. CBATI'EBTON was elected Grand Ma.at.er ; B. ·. W. ". WILL1Alll L.
KUYKENDALL was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Correspondent, B.-. W.-. WILLIAM L. KUYKENDALL, Grand Secretary, Sa.ratoga.

CONCLUSION.
The foregoing report, prepared for the consideration of the brethren about to
a.asemble in Grand Lodge at its forty-seventh Annual Communication, is submitted
with the hope that it will receive from them a thoughtful pernsal.

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Ualifornia.

783

Your committee congratulate Grand Lodge that it he.s, under the care of the
Supreme Grand Master. pa.seed through its forty-sixth year without the loss of a past
or preseut Grand Officer, although many eminent and faithful brethren have pa.seed
to the grPat beyond-we shall miss their familiarlpresence at the ensuing session.
Among the many names found recorded upon the death roll of the year are those of
Bros. STEPHEN WING and GEORGE M. AD.urs. Bro. WING was made a M.ason in
St. James Lodge, No. M, in 1854. He soon thereafter removed to Columbia
Tuolumne County, and affiliated with Oolumbta Lodge, No. 28, of which he became~
valued member. He was its column of strength for many years, and in 1866 became
its Master, in which honorable station he served nntil his removal to San Francisco
in 1872. Be soon thereafter affiliated with Oalifo1·nta Lodge, No. 1, of which he died
a member.
Bro. GEORGE MAOKEY ADAlllll we.a made a Mason in Diamond Springs Lodge, No.
29, in 1858, and we.a its Master in 1870. He removed to 8an Francisco in 1872 and
t.ffi.lie.ted with Occidental Lodge, No. 22, of which he was a member when death came.
" To their elements, each has returned,
Dust crumbled back to dust, the spirit gone to God."
Both brethren were members of the Past Masters' Association of San Francisco,
and both loved for their genial, kindly ways in their daily aBBociation with ijle
brethren, and as they were borne by loving hands from King Solomon ·s Hall, the
feeling words of Mayer's Qnartette seeemed to bear them company, and we could
almost hear the words" Good night, goo!l night, 'tis morning now
Good night, I am going home l
'
I have kept the faith, I have done my work
And the Ma.star bids me come."
'
The year has not been prolific in the creation or development of new methods.
The good shi~ Free~ason has held to the course laid down by the fathers and upon
an even keel is beanng along, safely, we hope, the eternal principles and landmarks
of an honored and honorable Fraternity. Let us voice our wishes in the words of
the Poet LONGFELLOW, and in full R.Ccord with the eight hundred thousand American
Masone, join in the chorus of:" Sail oo, Oh Ship of State,
8ail on, 0 Union, strong and great.
Humanity with all its fears
With all ihe hopes of fntnr~ years
Are e.11 with thee--are all with th~."
There is great need of a. more general understanding among the family of Grand
Lodges in reference to the question of jurisdiction, the rights and privileges of
membership and consequent Masonic standing. Uniform action in these matters is
not only desirable, but is vitally necessary to the preservation of harmony among
the Craft.
In our examination of the proceedings we are impressed with the fact that the
P_resence of sociability among the Lodges indicates to a certainty a prosperous condi·
tion, and we are reminded that in the early days of Oalifornia sociability among
Lodge membership used to be the rule and the lack of it the exception.
Our Cuban brethren have had their Temples closed by order of a. tyrannical government and we have" no sign" from them this year, but as we are taught Magna
Bal 1leritas el prevalabu, we have faith that the right will triumph over the combined
efforts of Pope and King, and from rekindled fires on restored altars shall arise the
incense of a pure offering to the reasonable freedom of thought and action.
The subject of Mexican Ma.aonry is engaging the attention of onr co-correspond-

784

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

ents. The committees of Texas, New York, Kansas, Iowa and North Dakota have
given their time and talents to the necessary investigation, a.nd have me.de exha.mitive
reports in fa.vor of acknowledging Gran Dieta. as a. le~itima.te a.nd regular .Me.sonic
power, a.nd the Grand Lodges have concurred therein. Illinois and Pennsylvania
have thus fe.r demurred. We think, however, the briefs submitt.ed by Bro. MATrHEWS
of Texae, who is Past Gra.nd Master and also Representative of the Gra.nd Lodge of
Ce.lifomia, and Bro. MATTHEW M. MILLBB of Kansas, furnish ample reason for the
action of their Gra.nd Bodies, aod e.s far as we ca.n judge the consensus of Ma.sonic
opinion seems to be decidedly in fa.vor of the recognition a.od encouragement of the
"Gnn Dieta. de Bymbolica. of Mexico.''
Bro. WAIT of New Ba.mpshire, ea.ye :We a.re not persona.lly conversant with the Ma...onry of Mexico, but such inquiry
a.s we have been able to make leads to the belief that it he.s its origin in the !\'enuine
st.ock, and e.s such he.s a right to e.sk recognition and to find fellowship with the
Fraternity elsewhere.
Bro. ColllMONB of Indiana says, in his conclusion :Regarding the Grand Lodge of Mexico we cao sa.y that the preponderance of
testimony is in favor of its legitimacy, a.nd that indications point to 11 general recog·
nition of the regularity of its Masonry.
We refer oor brethren who desire information to the excellent report• of Pe.st
Grand Master MA'l.THBWB of Texas, who is our Representative nee.r the Grand Lodge
of Texas, aod Bro. MATTHEW :M:. MILLEB, Chairman of the Kansas Committee, to be
found in our review of the doings of those Grand Bodies.
For the Committ.ee.
WILLIAM A. DAVIES,

Ohairmtin.
We publish herewith, as a. supplement to our report, the statistics of Gra.nd
Lodges compiled by the Committee on Correspondence of the Gra.nd Lodge of
New York :~

Grand Lorlge of California..

1896.]

785

.
BTATIBTICB OF GB.l.liD LODGES
Compiled by Committee oo Correspondence Gra.nd• Lodge of New York.

J

. GB.UID LoDGB.

- - - - --1-- - - - - - - - - - - -

Alaba.ma........
Arizona.........
Arkansas.......
California.... ..
Colorado.. ... ...
Oonnecticut •. . .
Delaware... ...
Dhi. of Colombia
J'lol'ida .•. •.•...
Geldohrgia... • • • • • •
Jlllina o... . . . . . . • .

In OIS....... ..

In~~~aT~;rit~;j

Iowa...... .. ...
J[aosas. . • • . . • • .
l'.entocky......
Loalsiana.... . .
](alne... . . . . • • .
Maryland.. ......
:MBEsachusetts...
-u,·ch1'gan

Minoesot~::::::

383
11
442
261
90
111
21
24
143
4 05
27
718

ll,335
503
13.837
17,431
7,023
16,632
2,039
4., 791
4,622

-m

445 4li5 275
197
600 --29
282 · • · • •. 132
16
6
10
9
481 383 120 226
44 ... ••• 154
49;
795
559 113
292
·•·
3 · · •391
369 391
378
23i
26
Hi8 180
81
206 • • ·
664 113
39
278
3 ··•
76 158
84
11
2
0s. • •
6
36
17
231
70
•• •• · ·
29 • • ·
41
73
86
• ••
348 176
51
91
~~ ~~ · · · 6
826 • • • ••
. • • • • •• • • • . • . • • • . • . . • • .
69
•
39 . • • . •
14
25
48
6
18
50,727 2,970 953 304 706 1,124 938
1 401 •.•
4~~ 2 ~·:~ l,~~3 653 267 435 6i5 492 · •45 '610 · • •
465 26'.103
Zl6' 51
3 232 : : :
354 19,185 1,090
603 149
259
~~ !~~ 36 1,051 • ..
461 18,00l! 1,231
446 340
299
604 i ,164 10
25 198 ••.
129 5,346
317 120 . 41
130
· 75
139
193 21,809 823
124
52 372
224 134
4
71 .••
95 6,892
428
27
96
63
79 2l3 · 3 187
252 •..
234 35 ,913 1,948 2,3()()
86
481
462 3ro
~ 1 21 • •.
381 37,"106 1,997 674
80
'9'
' O
203 16,06.5
867 328
795 538 14 1,003
50

5 ~~

i

1

1 16,, 0s83~

l.~

M~ ::.·

m1~i 2~:
is6

=:::~~~~~.i
:::::: ~:~39 3g:m
l.m156 ~~80 m
!~g27 8gm 823
m 83~~4 '~228 ....• .
:Montana... ... ..
2,491
17

2
11,770 593
38o
6
137 . ..
70
117
847
23
363
275
10 284
22
9 11
8,838 360
12 1 74
~ 51
22 · • ..2 · • • · • · 66
94
15,686 844, 174
76 250
185
88,573 5,562 1,053 1,097 1,382 1,098
216
2 441
883
,,.
2,844 19 2,359
63
6
20
7
2
l0,041
411
14
·
43 .••
"80
8
171
88
~~~rn~~:~~·:
u 2,312 229 160
281
272 78 .• • .•. 63
13
8
Oklahoma... ...
23
923
97 · 99
108
36
1
139
6
8
2
198
Ohio.......... .
500 39,906 2,373 735 820 569
!~ l 0
Oregon.•••• • • • •
100 4,803
224 127
32
73
1
,538 32 1,055
Pennsylvania. . .
425 48,472 2,433
..
28
100
7
108
.
•
748
469
3
Rhode Island....
37 4,661
213
71
706
1,061
85
242
7
Sooth Carolina..
181 5,90~
255 . • • •••
~; 35~ 3 104
90
Sooth Dakota...
90 4,254
262
86
16
105
41
4
183
7
Tennessee •• • • • •
430 17,766 732 388 126 391 603
66
o
Texa.s .. . • • • . . • 594 26,841 1,341 l,'93 279 408
364 53
165
Utah
9
738
'2
~AO
7
10 1,205 523 87 890
Ver~~~i" : :::::: 104 9,521 322
~ l6
62
32
19
. . •.
262 13,052 . • •.•.
91
208
473
2:
...
e.s ingtoo • . . •
97 4,959
267
183
16
62
18'
l"
<
..8
107 5 567
40.
~
uu
u
J
West Virginia...
02
50
;isconsin •. . . • .
232 rn:oo1
876
43
yomiog. . .•••• ~~~
27
3
7
20
16
2
60

Nebraska.......
Nevada.. .. • . . .
New Hampshire.
NewJersey.,.. .
New York.. . ...
,...ex1·co
New .....
· •••

222
19
78
165
734
21
290

7

1

~rg~nia . ...

2

u

1

1

~94

l~~

m m ~~ l~~

3~~

6 ~~

11,356 748,264 39,466 16,809 5,671 10,868 16,384 16,996 758 17,491 664.

British Colombia
21 1,269 135
81
3
flnada.. . ... .. .
351 22,805 1,204 361 149
anitoba.......
51 2,334
166 113
12
New Brunswick.
31 1,764
82
27
8
Nova Scotia....
64 3,267
202
29
50
Pr. Edward Is...
12
509
39
1
2
Quebec. . . . . . .. .
57 3,432 249
39 31
- -- - - - - - -- - ~ 35,380 ~ 673

19

60

30

248
13
36
3
35

630
143

6 54

~

23313 94

66

4
7
2

193
1 5 ·· ·
Z5 •••
u

•

55
49 · • • · .. • .• 23
80
71 ·
44
18 . • • . •. . . . .
12 : . •.
84
78
5
117 ..•
1,065 948

ls 596 23

Total. ••• ••. • U,9i3 78s;6« 41,543 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ mj~ ~

15

[Oct. 15,

Proceedings of the

786

The jurisdictions having Lodges of the largest membership are in the follow'ing order :
SVBORDll<ATE LoDGJt.

Location.

GRAND LoDGZ.

Na.me.

Membership.

No.

Minneapolis
. .. .
Minnesota .. . . . . ····· Minneapolis. . . . . . . . 19 NewHaven. .. .... .. ...
.
1
Connecticut...... · · · · Hiram. . ....... . . .
NewYork .. .. ... . .. . Genessee Falls. . . . . . 507 Rochester. . . ... .. . ··
Chicago
.
..
.
.
..
.
. .. ·
Illinois .... .. .. .. ... . Covenant. . . . .. . . . . . 526
Michigan . .. .. ..... . . Grand River.... . .. . 34 Grand Rapids . .... . .
Denver
.
.
.......
·· ··
Denver.....
...
..
.
..
5
Colorado . .. . . ...... .•
Washington, D. C•. :
District of Columbia.. La Fayette. . . . ..... 19 Philadelphia
. •.. . . ..
Pennsylvania ... . • . .. Washington .. . .. . . . 59
Columbus
. •...
Ohio . . . ... .. . .. · ··· Magnolia . . . . . . . . . . 20 Springfield... ...
...
. ... . .
Roswell
Lee. . . . . . . . . . . ·.
Massachusetts .... . . .
Rhode Island .... . . . . Wh~t Cheer . ... . . . . 21 Providence . .. . . . .. .
1 San Francisco. . .. . . .
California .. . .. · · · . · · Californ' a . . . . . . . . . .
Louisville . ... .. ... .
K~ntuc~ .... . ..• . . • Preston . . . . . . . . . . . . 281
Kansas City .. .. . .. .
MiBBOUrl. ••• • • • • • •• • Temple. ... ... . . . . .. 299
Maine .. ... ... . . . . . Ancient Landmark.. 17 Portland.. . .. ..... . .

803

.738
701
673
593
582
560
520

515
507
487
482
452
428
412

The foregoing report was ordered, as usual, to be print.ad with the
proceedings of this Communicati on.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the following
committeeSamuel Crawford Denson,
Jacob Hart Neff,
On Ritual, , , , ....•••.• . •••.• •••••...• ·.. Thomas Grafton Lii.mbert,
{ Charles Edward Mitchell,
William Harvey Edwards.

He also announced the appointment of Bro. J oHN ALLISON BEoK·

WITH to fill a vacancy in the Committee on Grievances, and Bro. BYRON

BALL to fill a vacancy in the Committ.ee on Returns.
The Grand Lecturer presented his Annual Report to the Grand
Lodge, as follows :To the M.·. W.·. Grand Lodge of Oali/ornia:On entering upon the duties of Grand Lecturer one ye~r ago I was not

unmindful of the grave responsibilities I was then assuming. I knew that
much would be expected of me, and that on no other subject were the Craft
so punctilious and exacting as upon the accuracy of the secret work and
l ectures and the ma.oner of presenting the same by the G~d Lec~rer.
I recognized that I should be as perfect in the symbolism as m the mere
formula and language of the work, and should be able to give an intelligent

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oaliforni,a.

787

reason for everything taught, to the end that the great moral truths therein
contained might be fully understood.
I also knew that I would be expected to make myself master of all the
ceremonies of our Order, and to give instruction in the manner of rendering
them the most striking and effective. I knew that I would be plied with
hundreds of questions on matters of jurisprudence, to which I ought to be able
to give an intelligent opinion, and thereby save the Grand Master a large
amount of needless correspondence . In a word, I knew that many eyes would
be upon me, and that much hard work was in store for me. Whether or not
I have discharged this trust I leave to the judgment of my brethren for
whom I have labored and their representatives in Grand Lodge assembled.
It is due me to say, however, that during the winter months I was not able to
do as much work as I had intended, owing to ill health which was brought on
by a severe attack of la grippe.
With the exception of informal visits to certain Lodges in San Francisco at
the close of our last Communication , my labor as Grand Lecturer began in the
southern division of the State.
On November 1, 1895, I visited Colton, Cal., in the Thirty-seventh District,
and gave instruction to the officers of A ghlar Lodge, No. 306. The Master,
Bro. CoNBTANTIN U'REN, has proven himself a most efficient officer, and the
Lodge has prospered under his care. He has since been appointed Inspector
of said Thirty-seventh District, an honor which he has well earned. On the
following evening (November 2d) in company with Bro. U'RE!i, I visited
Phaniz Lodge, No. 178, at San :Bernardino, and witnessed work in the
second degree, after which I gave instruction until a late hour. The attendance was good, and, as usual with this Lodge, a lively interest was taken.
On November 23d I again visited Ashlar Lodge, No. 306, and saw the third
degree conferred on two candidates. The officers and a large delegation of
members of Ph<?.ni;t; Lodge, No. 178, were present and took part in the work,
and altogether it was an occasion of unusual interest. I continued a school
of instruction for two days.
On December 2d I visited Pentalpha. Lodge, No. 202, in the city of Los
Angeles, and saw the first degree conferred in a very impressive manner, the
Worshipful Master , GEORGE V All.COE, presiding, after which I gave instruction
until a late hour. A.t the request of Inspector JAMES A.. Fosau, I continued
this school of instruction for five days for the benefit of the several Lodges of
the city, and although the meetings were not as well attended as I desired to
see, yet the attendance was fair and good progress was made.
On December 6th to 10th, inclusive, I visited Colton, San Bernardino and
Redlands, giving instruction to the brethren at each of these places.
On December 14th and 15th I held a Lodge of instruction at Santa .Ana,
by request of Inspector M. A. MENGES, for the benefit of the officers-elect of
the Thirty-ninth Masonic District.
On December 16th I visited Anchor Lodge, No. 273, at Compton, Ce.I.,
by special invitation from the Worshipful Master, J, W. HANSELMAN', and saw
the third degree conferred in a very satisfactory manner, after which the usual
refreshments wer11 aerved. This excellent little Lodge knows how to make a

788

Proceedings of the

[Oot.15,

visitor feel "at home," and their exprelll!ioDB of appreciation of mv visit will
long be held in pleasant remembrance. The Master, Bro. HANSELMAN, belpngs to that class of persons who are usually styled "who~e souled," and to
meet him once is to become his personal friend. The following day was spent
in giving instruction to eager listeners until the hour arrived when I had to
take the train for Los Angeles.
On December 18th I returned to Santa Ana. and resumed the school of
instruction which I had left off two days before, and continued the same for
three days. Although this was intended as a. District meeting, and Inspector
MENGES had requested the officers-elect of all the Lodges of the Dis~rict to be
present, yet it is to be regretted that none outside of Santa Ana availe~ themselVl!S of the opportunity except the Masters of the Lodges at Anaheim and
Orange. The officers of Santa Ana Lodge did well, however, and I lef~ them
quite proficient in the work. The third degree was conferred on the mght of
the 18th, with a large attendance of members, and the usual banquet followed.
The Lodge is in a harmonious and prosperous condition. To the gr~at. regret
of his many friends Bro. MENGES declined reappointment as D1str1ct Inspector, on account of his inability to devote sufficient time to the work, and
his place has been filled by the appointment of Bro. CHARLES E. MITCHELL,
Pa.st Junior Grand Warden, of Wilmington Lodge, No. HIS.
On January l, 1896, I visited South Riverside and gave instruction to the
officers-elect of Temescal Lodge, No. 314.
On January 3d I a.gain visited Los Angeles and held informal instruction
meetings for five days, though I confess that ill health on my part rendered
these meetings very unsatisfactory to myself, as I fear they were to others w~o
endeavored to gain benefit therefrom. The next three days were spent m
Alhambra taking care of my health, for which reason I ma.de no effort to convene the Lodge at that place.
On January 11th and 12th I held a school of instruction in Bakersfield
for the benefit of Bakersfield Lodge, No. 224, of the '.I:hirty:-second Di~trict.
This Lodge seemed to be in good w9rking conditiQn, though I learned that
they were doing but little work, as the Lodge is not exempt from the gen11ral
effect of "hard times." The Master, H. A. BLODGETT, had just been reelected, and appeared to be thoroughly energetic and popular in the community. At the request of the District Inspector, Bro..ENSI~N of ~ord, I
gave him his certificate of qualification, having foun~ him q~te proficient.
On January 13th I arrived at Hanford and gave mstruction for two days
in Hanford Lodge, No. 279. The District Inspector, Bro. JAMJi:S C. ENSIGN,
was present the entire time, giYing his closest attention to the work, and en·
couraging others to do the same. All-day meetin~ were hel~ ea.ch . day, and
good progress was ma.de, though I could have put lD further time to good li-dvantage.
On the night of January 14th I went to Tulare and spent several hours
with Bro. GEORGE W. ZARTMAN, Pa.st Master of Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269,
and also Bro. C. C. BROCK, Master-elect of same Lodge. My chief object in
visiting so many Lodges in this District was to decide on the propriety of dividing the District, which had been recommended by Inspector ENSIGN. It

1896.J

Grand Lodge of O<ilifornia.

789

waa quite evident that the District was too large for successful Inspector's
work, and I accordingly recommended to the Grand Master that it be divided
so as to form a new District, comprising Kern and part of Tulare counties,
and having found Bro. ZARTMAN of Tula.re to be well qualified in the duties
of M&ster, I recommended him for appointment as lnspec~r of the new District, &ll of which recommendations were duly approved by the Grand Master.
On J &nuary 15th I visited Merced and met a large number of brethren. On
the following evening La Grange Lodge, No. 99, of this place, gave an enter~inment and public installation of its officel'f:l, which was said to be a. very
enjoy&ble affair, but owing to the storm which was raging at the time, and
my continued ill health, I was unable to attend the festive occasion. I remained four days in Merced on account of the storm, during which time I
gave instruction to the new Master, Bro. OscAR A. BAKER, who was quite
eager to perfect himself in the work.
On Janu&ry 19th I visited Stanislaus Lodge, No. 206, at Modesto, and
held a. school for four days. A number of brethren, including the Master, Bro.
GEORGE R. STODDARD, gave close attention to these instructions. Also Bro.
GEORGE T. McCABE, Master of Summit Lodge, No. 112, of Knight's Ferry,
was present throughout these meetings, notwithstanding he had to drive thirty
miles across the country to reach Modesto. He has since been appointed
Inspector of the Thirtieth District.
On the night of .Tanuary 22d I reached San Francisco, where I remained
thirteen days, giving instruction to such brethren as called on me for that purpose, answering correspondence, and attending to other duties pertaining to
the office of Grand Lecturer. During this time I was visited by Bro. wALLACE
KAY, Inspector of the Twenty-first District, from Jackson, Amador County,
and during his stay of four days I gave him a full course of instruction. The
brethren of the Twenty-first District are fortunate in having so worthy and
painstaking a brother to look after the interests of their Lodges.
On Febru&ry 4th I visited Santa. Cruz, and spent two days with our veteran Inspector, Bro. FREDERICK W. LuOAB, and also our Grand Marshal, Bro,
EDWARD Sw11rr WEST. Many yea.rs of hard toil in the Masonic ha.mess h&s
not served to lessen or weaken the interest of Bro. LUCAS in the work of our
Order, but rather his zeal increases with his years. I went over almost the
entire ritual of the three degrees with him, &nd I found him exceedingly bright.
The time was plea.!!antly, and I hope profit&bly, passed in 8anta Cruz, and I
w11.s the recipient of many courtesies at the hands of the two brethren named.
On February 6th I visited Salinaa Lodge, No. 204, at Sa.linaa, Monterey
County, and let me s&y that in all rny travels over the State I have rarely, if
ever, met a Lodge more deserving of speci&l mention th&n this one. I stopped
in the city twenty-four liours, sixteen of which were spent in the Lodge-room
giving instruction to eager listeners. The Lodge was not opened, but the entire time was ta.ken up in conversational instruction, and although there were
but few corrections to make, yet the brethren were as eager to make those corrections as though they were wanting in the entire ritual. It is certainly a.
great luxury to give instruction where it is so much appreciated, and where
the brethren are so desirous to learn. Bro, FRANCIS A. ABBOTT had been

790

Procee,dings of the

[Oct. 15,

re-elected Master, and when I left him he was abont as near perfect in the
work as it has been my good fortnne to find. The Lodge ha.d not been very
prosperous for some time, owing to the great financial distress in the community, but with Bro. ABBOTT at the head, supported as he is by such efficient
brethren as Past Masters HARTNELL and SCHMECHEL, the Lodge cannot fail of
ultimate success. This Lodge reflects credit on the Inspector, Bro. FREDERICK
W. LUCAS.
On February 7th I visited San Luis Obispo, the home of the then Inspector
of the Thirty-fourth District, but found no opening for work in that city. I had
notified the Inspector twenty-four hours in advance of my arrival, yet no one
else seemed to know that I was expected, and the Inspector seemed too busy
to devote a single moment to Masonry during the limited time I had to remain.
I left twenty-five hours after my arrival, having seen but two Masons during
my stay.
On February 8th I arrived at Santa Maria, and visited Hesperian Lodge,
No. 264. Notwithstanding the brethren had only six hours' notice of my
intended visit, and most of t,hem were living in the country, and notwithstanding the Lodge-room was undergoing repairs, and in consequence was very
much torn up, yet everything had been placed in order as much as possible,
and about thirty members, out of an enrolled membership of sixty, were assembled to receive ,instruction. The meeting continued to a late hour, yet all
remained to the close, and the interest displayed showed that they were fully
alive to the importance of correct work. Bro. JAMES F. GooDWIN had been
installed for a second term as Master, and the interest he displayed convinced
me that the brethren ha.d made no mistake in their choice. Our Right Worshipful WM. T. LucAs, Deputy Grand Master, was present at this meeting,
and added much to the interest of the occasion by the encouragement he gave
to the work ; but to my regret he was compelled to leave the next morning for
San Francisco on professional business, and was therefore unable to attend the
meetings which followed. I continued this school until the evening of the
11th, making three days in all. Among the several Past Masters in attendance at these meetings was Bro. MARKS FLEISHER, who has since been ap·
pointed Inspector of said Thirty-fourth District:
On February 12th I arrived at Santa Barbara, but having no appointment
at that place I proceeded the same evening to San Buenaventura, where I
spent a very pleasant twenty-four hours with that veteran Mason, Past Grand
Lecturer JAMES F. KINGSLEY, who is now Inspector of the Thirty-fifth District. This brother was Grand Lecturer twenty-eight years ago, and it is pleasing to note that he bas lost none of his interest in Masonry, and is exceedingly
bright in the ritual We went over almost the entire work of the degrees
during my stay.
·
On February 13th I arrived in Los Angeles, but being "weary and worn
out," I made no effort to give instruction, and on the following day proceeded
home, having been absent forty.five days.
On February 21st I went to Los Angeles to meet the Grand Master and
other Grand Officers, who assembled to lay the corner-stone of the new Ma11onic Temple in that city, which took place on the following day, and of which

1896.]

Grand Lodge of California.

791

the Grand Master has ma.de ample report. During my stay in the city on this
occasion, I gave instruction to a number of brethren who ha.d assembled from
elsewhere, and on February 23d I held a school throughout the afternoon
in the hall of Pentalpha Lodge, for the benefit of a number of visiting
brethren from the country.
On February 24th I visited Temescal Lodge, No. 314, at South Riverside,
and installed the officers thereof, assisted by Inspector C. U'REN of Colton,
after which instruction was giTen.
On March 30th I again visited Los Angeles, and held instruction meetings
for two days for the benefit of various brethren belonging to the several Lodges
of that city.
On April let I started to Needles, Cal., having learned that a number of
brethren at that place had for some time been very desirous of instituting
a ·Lodge, but ha.d hitherto been unable .to prounre the necessary instruc·
tion. I arrived on the following morning, and found a goodly number of Master Masons assembled in a safe and ample hall, splendidly furnished with all
the necesssary jewels and paraphernalia of a regular and well appointed Lodge,
except that they had no authority to hold meetings. I gave them a schooling
of eight days, at the end of which time I felt warranted in certifying to the
proficiency of their officers, all of whom had been well chosen, and were zealous far beyond the average. They had twenty-two names on their list, a large
majority of whom were railroad men, and the officers chosen were all sacri·
ficing time and wages for the purpose of preparing themselves for their duties
to the Lodge. In due time they received a dispensation from the Grand Master, and I doubt not but that our Committee on Charters will find their work
of such regularity as will justify the recommendation of a charter.
On April 25th I installed the officers of Elsinore Lodge, No. 289, who were
elected on the same night by special dispensation from the Grand Master, the
Lodge having failed to elect at the time provided for by law.
From May let to 4th, inclnsive, I again held instruction meetings in Los
Angeles, at which brethren from various Lodges of the District were in
attendance. These meetings were chiefly held in the hall of Pentalpha and
Southern California Lodges, but on May 2d I visited Hollenbeck Lodge, No.
319, in their own hall, where I was met by a large attendance of members, as
well as visitors from other Lodges of the city. Inspector ENNIS was present
and assisted in the Lodge of instruction, which continued to a very late hour,
with apparent good results. On the night of the 4th _Pentalpha Lodge conferred the third degree, after which I continued my school until low twelve.
On May 5th I co=enced a series of meetings in Tehachapi Lodge, N-0. 313,
at Tehachapi, which continued three days. This Lodge has been very unfortunate and has done but little work, yet its members are very earnest and
gave the closest attention to the instruction. The Master was necessarily
absent, being a non-resident, and the meetings were held under the auspices
of Bros. PETER ToURNOUT, Senior Warden, and E. J. H. NIOHOLSON, Senior
Dea.con, both of whom are zealous and efficient Masons, and there can be no
doubt that the Lodge will prosper under their care when times improve suffi.
ciently to admit of prosperity. Bro. TouRNOUT had been elected Master, but

792

Proceedings of the

[Oot. 15,

owing to his inability to reach the lll8pector a.nd procure a certificate of que.J..
itication within sixty days, he was not installed. This was olellol'!y no fault of
his, but was ·the result of being too poor, financially, to travel one hundred
and forty miles to reach the lw!pector. Now that a new District has been .
formed, it is hoped that the Inspector will be able to look after Tehachapi
Lodge a.nd save them any such misfortune in the future.
On May 8th I visited Madera Lodge, No. 280, at Madera, and opened a
Lodge of instruction, which continued four days. This Lodge is in excellent
hands in the person of Bro. TuoMAS LoVll:, Master, assisted by a good corps of
officers. While the attendance was not as good as I had expected, yet it was
fa.ir, and good attention was given to the instruction-especially by Worship·
ful Master LoVE and Past Master WILLIAM C. RING, both of whom were
untiring in their efforts. This Lodge seemed to 11.ppreciate a visit from the
Grand Lecturer, which they informed me was the first they had ever received
from a Grand Officer, notwithstanding· they are prominentlylloca.ted on a
main line of travel. A good account of Madera Lodge m.a.y confidently be
looked for in the future.
On May 13th and 14th I met the brethren of the iTwenty-ninth•District in
the hall of Mariposa Lodge, No. 24, at Mariposa, Cal. Inepector1WILLIAM
ADAMS of Hornitos was present, a.nd also a· good delegation from Yosemite
Lodge, No. 133, of Coulterville, which made a complete representation of the
District. These meetings were all that could be desired in way of attendance
a.nd interest, although it was quite evident that Mariposa Lodge was feeling
deeply the general business depression caused by the closing of the mines in that
region. After the second day it was thought best to move the meetings to
Coulterville, owing to the better opportunity offered at the latter place for
securing a good attendance. Therefore, on May 15th, in company with the
Coulterville brethren, after a hard day's journey across the mountains I
reached Coulterville, and continued the District meeting two days longer,
with increased interest. Here I was joined by Bro. GEORGE T. McCABE, of
Knight's Ferry, who is Inspector of the Thirtieth District, than whom a
more thoroughly zealous or hard working Mason could not be found in the
State. The brethren allowed no obstacle to prevent their attendance at the
meetings, for which every moment of available time was occupied, and it ·is
needless to say that great improvement was the result. On the night of the
16th the third degree was conferred, with your humble servant as Master, and
Inspector McCABE as Senior Warden. Modesty forbids that I should speak of
the quality of the work any further than to say that the floor work was excellent, notwithstanding the brethren engaged had but little experience, and
had received no correct instruction until my arrival in the District. W orehipful Master! FERGUSON was necesearily(absent on account of death in his
family, but he was well representtld by Pa.st Master DANIEL WAGNER, who
gave his undivided attention to thefmeetinge.jjYosemite Lodge has every
promise of proaperity&in the near future.
On the 17th, in company with Bro. McC.u1.e:, I departed for Knight's Ferry,
and on taking leave of the Coulterville brethren it was plea.sing to note that
tbe entire Masonic Fraternity had assembled at the hotel to wish us a pleasant

1896.]

Grand, Lodge of Oalifornia.

793

journey. At one o'clock P. M. we took dinner at La Grange with Bro. FERGUSON, the Master of Yosemite Lodge, who ha.a mining interests at that place, and
at six o'clock P. M. arrived at Knight's Ferry, weary and worn out in body,
and altogether too tired to hold a Lodge meeting that night, but with a suffioient store of pleasant recollections to insure a good appetite and sound 'sleep.
On May 18th, 19th and 20th, I held all-day meetings in Summit Lodge,
No. 112, at Knight's Ferry, Inspector McCABE being Master for a second
term. It is needless to say that these meetings were altogether succeBBful,
and had I not already been thoroughly convinced of the eminent fitness of
Bro. McCABE for the Inepectorship these meetings would have furnished the
necessary proof. I should add that Bro. F.&RGUSON, although deprived of
the privilege of attending the meetings of his own Lodge, as before stated,
embraced the opportunity of attending part of the time at Knight's Ferry,
notwithstanding the long journey he had to make.
On May 21st, through the continued courtesy of Bro. McCABE, I was furnished conveyance to Sonora, via Chinese Camp, and at the latter place I made
an effort to convene George Washington Lodge, No. 62, but found it impossible
to do so. The failure, however, seemed to be the result of the unfortunate
condition of the Lodge, rather than the fault of the brethren. The members
were scattered away from home, and only one old man could be found in or
near the town who belonged to the Lodge, and he could give very little account
of it. Death had recently claimed several of its leading members, among
whom were its Master, DANIEL T. BARTLirrr, and the officers and members
were all absent in various mining camps working for their support. There
was no one who could even show me the Lodge-room, and I left with a feeling
that George Washington Lodge was in a pitiable condition. Let us hope that
this old Lodge, dedicated as it is to the memory of the great father of his
oountry, may yet survive and ag&i.n become prosperous. I arrived in Sonora
in the afternoon, having traveled the entire distance from Knight's Ferry in
the rain, which I had reason to remember· afterward from the attack of cold
and neuralgia which followed.
On May 22d, 23d and 24th, I gave daily instruction in Tuolumne Lodge,
No. 8. Bro. GEORGE W. NICOL is serving his second term as Master, and Bro.
FBANK W. STREKT, Past Master of this Lodge, is District Inspector. On the
night of the 22d the third degree was conferred in a very creditable manner,
with Bro. NICOL in the chair, and Bro. STREET as Senior Warden. An intereating feature was the large number of elderly men who took active part in
the floor work. It is oertainly commendable on the part of these brethren to
keep up an untiring interest in the symbolism of Masonry, yet I have invariably recommended that the young members be encouraged to perform these
activfl duties, as it serves as a schooling by which they a.re prepared for future
usefulness in the Lodge. This is one of the most prosperous Lodges in the
State and is doing a great deal of good in the cause of Masonry.
May 25th and 26~h was spent at Angel's Camp with Bear Mountain Lodge,
No. 76. Bro. THOMAS N. SMITH has, for the third term, been installed Master wit!> a good corps of officers. The Lodge is reasonably prosperous and
harmonious, and the Master and other officers gave close attention to the in-

794

Proceedings of the

[Oot.15,

struction. The Lodge ought to become quite strong, as the town is one of the
most prosperous that I have found anywhere, owing to its extensive gold-mining interests.
On May 27th I went to Lockford, in Sa.n Joaquin County, and met Bro. N.
R. BARBOUR, Inspector of the Twenty-third District, and on the following
day he .and I commenced instruction in Lodi Lodge, No. 256, of which Bro.
BARBOUR is Master. A District meeting had been called, and representatives
were present from Stockton, Woodbridge and elsewhere, and the meeting
lasted two days with increasing interest. Further time could have been need
to good advantage in this District, but owing to an engagement in the Twelfth
District I was compelled to leave on the 30th; in doing which I promised to
return at a later date, which promise, I regret to say, I have not yet been able
to fulfill
On May 30th I commenced a series of instruction meetings at Marysville,
which lasted six days. A meeting of the Twelfth District had been called by
the Inspector, CHARLES E. STONE, and three of the Lodges, viz. : Corinthian, No. 9, Yuba, No. 39, and Enterpriae, No. 70, were represented during
the entire six days. These Lodges were already in fair working condition,
bot many little errors had crept into their work which they were anxious to
correct, for which purpose they had requested my visit. It is worthy of note
that the Master of Enterprise Lodge, Bro. ALONZO GRAF.VIS, was a constant
attendant at these meetings, notwithstanding he lived nine miles distant, in
Sutter County, and often drove home after eleven o'clock at night to look af~r
the business of his ranch, returning next morning in time for the forenoon
session. The third degree was conferred on the night !Jf June 2d by Corinthian Lodge, No. 9, with the Master, Bro. SOLOMON LEWEK, in the chair, and
a large attendance of members and visitors. The work was impressively rendered, and the usual banquet followed, but owing to my appreciation of good,
wholesome sleep, I, as usual, excused myself from attendance at the festive
board, and retired to the hospitable ·hotel kept by Bro. LEWEK.
Bro. E. E. STONE, son of Inspector STONE, is Master of Yuba Lodge, N;o.
39, and was in constant attendance at the meetings except when his profes•
sional duties called him away; and altogether the three Lodges named appeared to be well officered and in a flourishing condition.
The Inspector, Dr. C. E. STONE, has lost none of his old-time interest and'
energy in the cause of Masonry, and is a living . illustration of the truth that
when a man acquires a love for our Order in his young days he never gets over
it. On taking leave of Marysville I felt a.asured that my visit was appreciated
by the brethren of the Twelfth District, and that my labor was not without
good results.
June 6th to 12th, inclusive, was spent in San Francisco, answering correspondence and making arrangements for an extended tour of the northern part
of the State. I also made some casual visits to certain Lodges in this city and
Sa.n Rafa.el, of which a detailed report is not necessary.
On June 13th I visited Athens Lodge, No. 228, at Davisville. A good
attendance of members greeted me in the Lodge-room, but owing to the
a.bsenue of the three stationed officers the Lodge was not opened. Several of

1896.]

Grand Lod,ge of Oa1ifwnia.

795

the officers and Past Masters were present, and I gave informal instruction
until a late hour, in which the brethren showed much interest.
On June 14th I went to Williams in Colusa. County, where I met Bro.
JosEPH E. RATHBUN, Inspector of the Thirteenth District, a.nd with him
held instruction meetings for two days in Tuscan Lodge, No. 261, of which
Bro. I. A. FouCH is Master. Good attention was given and much improvement made.
On June 16th, in company with Inspector RATHBUN, I visited Laurel
Lodize, No. 245, a.t Willows, in Glenn County, a.nd gave instruction during
the afternoon, evening, and forenoon of the following day. The Master, Bro.
GEORGE W . 0&&, is a good and efficient officer, and the Lodge will no doubt
prosper under his ca.re. It seemed to be in good condition.
On June 17th I visited Orland Lodge, No. 265, at Orland, Inspector
RATHBUN still with ·me, and held a Lodge of instruction. The Master a.nd
Senior Warden were both absent, but there was a fair attendance of members,
including the Junior Warden, Secretary, Senior Deacon and others. In fact,
considering the short notice that we had given them of our visit; the attendance was all that could be expected, except that we thought the Master
should have been there. A lively interest was taken in the work, and I saw
no good reason why the Lodge might not become prosperous. It is worthy of
note that Bro. SAMUELS. MARKHAM, Master of Newville Lodge, No. 205, wa.s
present and took the position of presiding officer, and from the zeal and proficiency he displayed, I take it that NeU!Ville Lodge is in sa.fe hands.
Orland Lodge is financially embarrassed. They have a good hall, but it is
very poorly furnished, and from what I could learn they had been paying very
extravagant hall rent. An examination of the books disclosed that the Lodge
had been scrupulously careful to appropriate every farthing (putting the case
mildly) of the percentage of Lodge funds allowed under the law for social
purposes, to the payment of refreshment bills. In fact the books would not
bear inspection on that point.
I could not refrain from the suggestion that it would be but justice to
themselves to foster their fonds, and make no appropriation whatever to
social purposes until they had put a carpet on the floor, and provided some
necessary furniture, of which the Lodge was almost entirely destitute. They
had but little of Lodge paraphernalia. by which a degree could be rendered intelligent. In this connection I would say that the opening of the way to the
use of Lodge funds for the cultivation of the much talked of social feature
has not proven _the boon to Lodges that was expected. Those brethren who
can only be induced to attend by i>ffering a premium to their appetites are
of but little value 't o the Lodge, and invariably leave the burden of the work
to those few brethren who prefer the interests of the Lodge to the banquet
table.
This being the northern boundary of Bro. RATHBUN's District, he returned
on the following day to his home at Williams, while I continued my journey
north.
From June 18th to 21st, inclusive, I held instruction meetings in Vesper
Lodge, No. 84, at Red Bluff, which is the home Lodge of Bro. JAMES L. B~-

796

Procwlings of the

(Oct: 15,

HAM, Inspector of the Fourth District. The night meetings were well attended,
and were chiefly devoted to rehearsals. The Master, Bro. WILLIAM P. JoRNsoN, and the Senior Deacon, Bro. A. B. Col!'!'MAN, were in constant attendance at the day sessions, and embraced every possible opportunity of perfecting themselves in the work.
Inspector BARHAM had made an engagement for me at Redding for the benefit of the Lodges of Shasta County, and I proceeded thither on the evening
of the 21st, and held meetings until the 23d, making five days in all for the
Fourth District. Bro. JOHN R. LowDoN, Master of Reading Lodge, No. 254,
was quite bright, and was very earnest in his efforts. Bro. JEWETr SCRANTON,
Master, and Bro. EDWARD SWEENY, Senior Warden, and other members of
Western Star Lodge, No. 2, were present and took prominent parts in the rehearsals ; and from their proficiency and zeal, and from other information received, it is quite evident that the veteran Lodge at Shasta is in no need of
being looked after by this Grand Lodge. Altogether, the Fourth District is in
a very satisfactory condition, for which Bro. BARHAM is to be congratulated.
On June 24th, after an all-day run by rail and stage, I reached Etna · Mills
in Siskiyou County, and held meetings for two days in Evening Star Lodge,
No. 186, of which Bro. CHARLES W. NuTrING, Inspector of the Second Mas.onic District, is Master. It is needless to say that the meetings were entirely
satisfactory, as Bro. NuTrING is one of the best posted Masons that I have
found. The Lodge, however, is doing very little work. The Master, and
other representative brethren from North S~r Lodge, No. 91, at Fort Jones,
were present, and took active part in the meeting. Inspector NUTTING was
expecting to accompany me to Yreka and Dunsmuir to visit the remaining.
Lodges of his District, but owing to professional duties he was not able to do
so, to my great disappointment.
On June 26th I visited the two Lodges in Yreka, viz.: St. John's, No. 37,
and Howard, No. 96, where a special meeting had been called for that purpose. The Masters and other officers, as well as certain Past Masters and
members of both the Lodges, were presllnt, and an excellent meeting was had.
Instruction was given to eager listeners until near midnight.
On June 28th I met the brethren of Dunsmuir Lodge, No. 297, at Dunsmuir, and gave instruction. This little Lodge has been very unfortunate, a
number of its members having become non-residents by reason of the great
railroad strike of 1894, they having moved away on hunt of other employment.
Still the Lodge shows a fair degree of spirit and determination, and the Master,
HARRY L. WALTHER, is competent and energetic, and I feel assured that .the
Lodge will succeed in the end. Like the majority of the Lodges in Siskiyou
County, they have done but little work, which is, without doubt, attributable
to the financial depression among the people.
On June 29th, after an all-night's run, I arrived at Biggs, in Butte County,
where I met Bro. WENDELL P. HAMMON, Inspector of the Eleventh District,
and with him held a meeting of JiJmmanuel Lodge, No. 318, of which Bro.
JAMES H. McGILL is Master. North Butte Lodge, No. 230, of Gridley, was
also represented, and a very interesting meeting followed, in which the first
degree was exemplified.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalijor?iia.

797

On the ~allowing day, June 30th, in company with Bro. HAMMON and other
representatives of Emmanuel Lodge, I visited Chico, where a District meeting
had been called, and held a Lodge of instruction for two days. Thie meetin
was not as. well attended as it should have been, yet the second evenin!
showed a fair attendance, and those who did attend exhibited a commendable
interest in perfecting themselves in the work. The first evening was devoted
to an exemplification of the second degree, under the direction of Inspector
HAMMON. The second evening was occupied in a rehearsal of the third degree
and the day sessions were devoted by the Masters to a study of the lectures'.
B~. ~MMON is an industrious and efficient Inspector, and the affairs of the
Distnct can be safely entrusted to his care.
On ~uly ~ I visited the Ninth District, at Nevada City, where I met and
had an mterv1ew with our M.·. W. ·.EDWARD M. PRESTON Grand Master. I
remained until the morning of the 4th, but owing to the v~ry extensive celebration of oar National day by the Nevada people, it was impossible to secure a
good attendance at the Lodge. However, the District Inspector, Bro. IANTllIS
J . .R~LlrE, and a few of the officers of Nevada Lodge, No. 13, were on ha.nd,
and a pleasant, and, I think profitable, meeting was held.
On July 4th I went to Dutch Flat, where I met Bro. ADAMS BARRETT
Inspector of the Tenth District, and had a pleasant interview. Also met Bro'.
B. B. McKENZIE, Master of Olay Lodge, No. 101, who eagerly embraced the
ol>portunity to correct himself in the work, so far as time would allow.
On July 6th, in company with Inspector BARRETT, I met the brethren of
Illinoistown Lodge, No. 51, at Colfax, where an all-day instruction meeting
was held. Bro. MICHAEL D. LININGER, Paet Inspector of the District from
Auburn, and also representatives from Olay Lodge, No. 101, were preseu~, and
the meeting was continued until a very late hour, and also during the following
day. Bro. ALBERT NORRIS, Ma.star of 1Uinoi8town Lodge, represents the
young Masonry of Colfax, and is fully alive to the importance of uniform
work. The Lodge was in fair condition, and, from the best information obtainable, the District was in as good condition a.a could be expected, consider·
ing the small amount of degree work that some of the Lodges were doing.
On July 8th I visited Sacramento and called on Bro. EnwrN GLOVER
Inspector of t~e Eighteenth District. In the evening I attended Union Lodge:
No. 58, and witnessed the second degree, with Worshipful THOMAS B. REID
in the chair. Owing to the extreme hot weather, the attendance was not
large, but Inspector GLOVER, and the Masters of Tehama Lodge, No. 3, and
Sacramento Lodge, No. 40, were present, and added to the interest of the
occasion. The following day was devoted to instruction until a late hour
at night, with the Inspector and officers of various city Lodges in attendance, but owing to the extreme heat, and consequent uncomfortable condition
of the Lodge-room, ~became convinced that I could not pursue to advantage
the work of lecturing in that part of the State until after the heated term:.
Th_erefore, on ~~ly 10th I turned my face southward, and after two days of
~porta.nt visits on the road, I arrived at home on July 14th, having been
absent seventy-five days.
On July 25th I visited San Diego, and held a Lodge of instruction four

t

798

Proceedings of the

.[Oct. ·15,

days for the benefit of the Thirty-eighth District. The Inspector, Bro. JAMES
WELLS, was unfortunately absent from the city and failed to receive my notice,
which was sent only one day in advance, therefore the brethren had no notice
whatever of my coming. Bro. EUGENE DANEY, Master of Silver Gate Lodge,
No. 296, was equal to the emergency, however, and by the. use of the telephone, and otherwise, he soon gave word to the brethren of San Diego and
National City, and the result was a series of meetings of more than ordinary
interest and satisfaction. Words cannot suffice to express my appreciation of
the reception given me by the brethren of San Diego. The attendance was
good from start to finish, and all came to learn. The first evening was
devoted to the exemplification of the first degree by Silver Gate Lodj!'e, with
Bro. DANEY in the chair. On the second day the second degree was exemplified
by San Diego Lodge, No. 35, W. ". Bro. W. L. PIERCE presiding. The third
day, however, was the best of all. Nearly one hundred Masons were present
at the evening session, and all remained until a late hour, giving the closest
attention to the work. This was the best attendance that I have yet seen at
a meeting called for the sole purpose of instruction, The third degree was rehearsed with the officers of the several Lodges taking part, among whom were
Bro. E. J. HATCH, Master of Oonsuelo Lodge, No. 325, at Escondido, and
Bro. E. A. HORNBECK, Master of South West Lodge, at National City. The
fourth and last day was devoted to general instruction on the several degrees,
and to hearing a.nd answering questions. All the Lodges in the District were
represented except Fallhrook, No. 317, which failed to get notice. It must not
be understood that these brethren were largely deficient in their work before
I made them the visit. On the contrary, they were far ahead of the average
in point of proficiency, but they were, nevertheless, anxious to correct every
error, however small, which had crept into their work. The entire District
has done well in the matter of degree work the past year. All in all, the.
meetings will be long remembered as a pleasant feature of my year's work.
On August 11th and 12th I visited Ventura, the home of Bro. JAMES F.
KINGSLEY, Inspector of the Thirty-fifth District, where a meeting had bee11.
called for the benefit of the three Lodges of Ventura County. The first
evening was occupied with the Inspector, but on the second evening a large
number of brethren assembled at the hall of San Buenaventura Lodge, No. 214,
including the Masters and other representatives from Santa Paula and
Hueneme, and the third degree was rehearsed, with Worshipful BENJAMIN T.
WILLIAlllS in the chair. A very lively interest was taken, and the corrections
were eagerly adopted. These Lodges have each done a great deal of degree
work during the year.
On August 13th and 14th, in company with Inspector :KINGSLEY, I held a
Lodge of instruction in Santa Barbara for the benefit of the two Lodges in
that city. The attendance was all that could be desired, and the interest
taken showed that the brethren appreciated an opportunity to study the work.
Bro. C. C. KNIGHT, Master of Santa Bai·bai·a Lodge, and Bro. B. F. Ta:oMAS,
Master of Magnolia Lodge, were present at all these meetings, and gave all
the encouragement they could to the brethren of their respective Lodges.
Altogether the meetings were very satisfactory, though they might have been

1896.]

Grand Lodge, of California.

799

continued longer with profit, but the Inspector is well qualified to keep up the
standard of work in this District. Strange to say these two Lodges had conferred no degrees during the year, for which there was no apparent ca.use. The
greatest harmony ~revailed among the brethren and between the Lodges. The
officers had been wisely chosen from men of the highest standing in the commv.nity, and the Lodges were in good financial condition.
On August 16th and 17th I visited Santa Maria, where a meeting had
been called by Inspector MARKS FLEISHER, of the Thirty-fourth District, and
held~ Lodge of instruction. Representatives from Lompoc and Arroyo Grande
were m attendance, and a commendable interest was taken in the work ; also
our R. '. W. '.WILLIAM T. LucAS, Deputy Grand Master was present and
took an active part in the floor work. Another pleasa.i:t feature was the
attendance of seven lea.ding officers and members of Lompoc Lodge, No. 262,
who had traveled by private conveyance a distance of more than thirty miles
to reach the meeting. These brethren took the lead in the work, and demonstrated by their proficiency and zeal that Lompoc Lodge is in good condition.
On August 18th and 19th I gave instruction in King David's Lodge, No.
209, at San Luis Obispo, where Inspector FLEISHER had called a meeting for
that purpose. ~he attendance was small and the interest unsatisfactory.
The second evenmg was also the stated meeting of King David's Lodge, and a
good attendance was looked for, especially as it had been announced that the
Inspect.or and mysel~ would be there ; yet the attendance was quite small,
and, with the exception of the Master and one or two others, but little interest
was taken in the work. The Lodge is strong, numerically, and, I presume is
in good financial condition. It has a splendid hall, which is well furnish~d.
I unders~ood that they. h~ ?een doin~ very little degree work, which might
account m part for thell' mdifference m the matter of preparing themselves.
POl6o Robks Lodge, No. 286, was represented at this meeting by its Master
and one other member, who took the parts of MastP.r and Senior Deacon in
the practice work, and they proved themselves to be well skilled. Inspector
FLEISHER was also present.
On August 20th I visited P~o Robles Lodge, No. 286, by request of the
Master, Bro. J.AlllES ~· GLASS, who met me at San Luis Obispo, as already
stated. As this meetmg was not in my regular programme the brethren had
only a few hours notice, yet the attendance was fair, and includerl a half dozen
of the leading brethre~ of San Miguel Lodge, No. 285, who were notified by
telephone after my arnval, and who came from San Miguel by private convey.
ance. Instruction was given during the afternoon and until a late hour at
night, and the interest was all that could be desired. My only regret was
that I could not spend a.t least another day with these brethren, as the time
Was too short to go over the whole of the work, as they desired. The officers
had been wisely chosen and the utmost harmony prevailed.
On August :!0th I visited Eureka and commenced a series of meetings in
the interest of the First District, which lasted ten days. These meetings
Were distributed among the several Lodges of Humboldt County and were
~der the direction of Inspector JOHN M. MELENDY, of Eureka'. who was
with me at all these meetings except that of Ferndale, No. 193, which he ·

800

Pf'oceedings of tlie

[Oct. 15,

was not able to attend. All the Lodges are prosperous and working in
perfect harmony. The Lodges a.t Eureka, Ferndale and Rohnerville have
ea.ch conferred many degrees during the yea.r, the last named ta.king the lead.
They own their own halls, which a.re all well furnished, a.nd the Lodges a.re
well officered. The Lodge at Arcata has done very little degree work this
year, but it is a good strong Lodge a.nd has a bala.nce of several thousand. dollars in its treasury. It owns its own hall jointlf with j;he Odd Felio.we, which
is commodious a.nd well furnished, but the brethren are not satisfied with it,
a.nd a.re now engaged in the erection of a. new a.nd magnificent building which,
when completed, will be a. credit to Humboldt County. This work is also
shared with the Odd Fellows, and they have the money to pa.y for it, so that
when completed and furnished the Lodge will not be in debt one dollar.
Inspector MELENDY is surprisingly bright in the ritual, considering the fa.ct
that it has been many yea.rs since a Grand Lecturer visited the District, and
he enjoys the confidence and esteem of the brethren. He can well be depended on to look after the interests .of his District. Altogether, Masonry in
Humboldt County is in a most satisfactory oondition and has a.n upward tendency.
In the foregoing pa.gee I hav;e confined myself to a report of such visits as
were ml4de for the purpose of imparting instruction useful to the Craft. In
addition thereto, I have made quite a number of visits to Lodges for the purpose of witnessing degree work, and other purposes, of which I have made
no m£:ntioI1. 8uch omil!sion, on my part, is not through a.ny lack of appreciation of the hospitality of the brethren, but because a special mention of each
visit would add greatly to the length of this already too voluminous report:
Such visits were usually to Lodges that were already in good working conditioI1, and, being more or le88 of a social character, offered no opportunity for
instruction, even where such instruction was needful.
In addition to the work I have done, it was my desire a.nd intention to
visit the remote counties in the northeast part of the State, viz., Modoc, Lassen, Plumas a.nd Sierra., but I found it impossible to do so without runnilli
my expenses very far above the amount allowed by this Grand Lodge. It requires long, tedious and expensive traveling by stage, which I could not afford
to do this year. I believe, however, that it should be made a pa.rt of the
Grand Lecturer's work the coming year, and he should give himself sufficient
time in ea.ch district to put the Lodges, or at lea.et the Inspectors, in thorough
working condition. I think I have clearly demonstrated by my year's work
that a Grand Lecturer's visit is only beneficial when he remains long enough
to impress his work so that it will not be forgotten. The Inspectors, however, must of necessity be largely depended on to instruct the Lodges, and to
that end the Graild Lecturer should give his first attention to the Inspector,
and to the Lodges incidentally. He should make himself thoroughly acquainted with the condition of affairs in ea.ch district, the better to enable him
to select the most suitable a.nd best qualified brother for Inspector, for it is
needless to say that the Inspectors are not all a.a well qualified as they ought
to be. There is nothing so di~couraging and hurtful to Lodges as to give them
a teach11r who does not know the correct work, and the Grand Lecturer should

1896.J

I

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

801

make it a.n invar~abl~ rule never to recommend a brother for Inspector until,
by personal examxnat1on, he has found him to be well qualified.
In pursuing my work a.a Lecturer, I often found it necessary to remain
longer in a district than I had calculated on, while a.t other times I had to
leave before my work was co~pleted to meet other appointments. My policy
was to do the ~ea.test posmble amount of work with the lea.st po88ible expense, and to that end I traveled progressively from one district or Lodge to
the next nearest, so as to avoid the expense of long rune and the consequent
loss of time. I have also tried to confine my work to localities that have heretofore been somewhat neglected, and to that end I have assumed that the
districts Ml:jacent to and including Sa.n Francisco were in no particular need
of my services, and have, therefore, given them but little attention.
My labor has involved a nece88ary absence from home of 226 days up to
the first day. of October, during which I have rarely failed to spend some part
of ea.ch Clay ID. a. Lodg~·room, and although I have exercised all the economy
that was cons1eteut with the busine88 in which I was engaged, my expenses
have amounted to about one hundred dollars more than the a.mount allowed
by ~hie Grand Lodge. I menti?n this, not for the purpose of making a claim
agamst the Grand Lodge, but simply as a matter of information. This excess
of expenses would have been augmented to the a.mount of at lea.st an additional hundred dollars but for the many courtesies received at the hands of
the brethren. Many times I found my hotel bills paid, and in several inetari.cee, while in the mountainous districts, I was furnished conveyance from one
place to another. For these and many other kind acts on the part of the
brethren, I desire now to tender my sincere thanks.
lNSPECYrORS' REPORTS.

About the 25th of August I addressed a communication to the several Inapectore.in the jurisdiction, asking them to send in their reports promptly on
or before September 1st, in conformity to our regulations. A large majorit
cheerfully complied and reported on time. Others were tardy in their report?
while nine have made no report whatever. The following is a brief summar;
of the reports received up to date :
..Inspector J ..uu:s L. BARHAM, of the Fourth District, reports that he has
~ted as many of hie Lodges as po88ible, and finds them in fairly good cond1t1on. Some of them have done a good deal of work and the officers a.re
in hie opinion, well informed. He thinks the Grand Lecturer's visit in th;
north has resulted in a vast amount of good, and expresses the hope that the
Grand Lodge will take steps to keep a Grand Lecturer constantly in the field.
Inspec~r WILLIAM BROOKMAN, of the Fifth District, renders a. detailed
repo':'. which shows the two Lodges in his district to be in a. very healthy
condition. A lar~e number of suspensions in LIUl8en Lodge, for non-payment
of dues, was nnavoi~ble, hut otherwise the Lodge has good prospects ahead.
Both the Lodges a.re ID reasonably good financial condition and are harmonious. The books a.re well kept, and the work is about as good as could be expected of interior Lodges.

16

802

Proceedings of the

[Oct 15,

Inspector JoHN M. MussEY, of the Seventh District, reports the two
Lodges of his district to be in fairly prosperous condition. The m.embers are
zealous and seem to be working together in harmony. The cha.ntable work
has taxed them almost beyond their capabilities, but the brethren respond
nobly to every ca.11 for succor, for which they a.re entitled to the highest commendation. The Inspector expresses re~et that the Grand Lecturer wa.s not
able to visit his district as he had intend9d doing, a.nd a.dds that a visit to that
remote section by a Grand Officer would be a.n occurrence which might serve as
an epoch from which to reckon time.
Inspector STANLEY A. SMITH, of the Eighth District, reports that he ha.a
not visited any of his Lodges except Mountain Shade, No. 18, but he calculates to do so during the present calendar yea.r. All the Lodges of his district
have good balances in their treasuries, and the Ma.stars a.re proficient in the
work.
Inspector ADAMS BARRETT, of the Tenth District, renders an excellent report, showing tha.t he has visited all of the ten Lodges in his dist~ct, a.nd finds
them generally iu good condition and working well. He mentions two exceptions, however. Michigan Oity, No. 47, is in a crippled condition on account of the closing down of the mines, many members having to go elsewhere
on hunt of employment. The Inspector thinks that the members who remain
a.re faithful and a.re doing all they can to pull the Lodge through until better
times. Ionlc Lodge, No. 121, a.t Iowa. Hill, ha.a good surroundings, and, in
the opinion of the Inspector, ought to prosper, but owing to the indifference of
its members it fails to take advantage of its opportunities, and makes no advancement.
Inspector CHARLES E. STONE, of the Twelfth District, has viaited a.11 the
Lodges of his district, a.nd has witnessed work in a.ll of them except Rose's
Bar Lodge, No. 89, which has done no work for several yea.rs. All the other
Lodges are working in accordance with the required ritual. He says that
since the visit of the Grand Lecturer, the officers have ta.ken renewed interest
in the work and are mindful of the corrections made and advice given on tha.t
occasion.
Inspector JOSEPH E. RATHBUN, of the Thirteenth District, has visited a.11
the Lodges of his district and finds them in good condition, with two exceptions. He reports some irregularities in Snow Mountain Lodge, which he
promptly corrected, and thinks the brethren will hereafter adhere strictly to
the requirements of their By-I.awe. He notes some improvement in Orland
Lodge since the visit of the Grand Lecturer, but thinks they a.re not a.s careful a.a they should be in the selection of material. Bro. RATHBUN ca.n be de·
pended on to look after the interests of his district.
Inspector WILLIAM W. CUNNINOHAM, of the Fourteenth District, reports
that he has not visited any of the Lodges of his district during the yea.r, for the
reason that they have not invited him. He thinks tha.t without an invitation
he should not au bject the Lodges to the expense of a visit. I beg to differ
with the brother on this point. Often Lodges neglect to invite the Inspector
when they would really appreciate a visit from him, and would willingly pay
his expenses. Whether tha.t is the case or not, he should certainly visit Lodges

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

803

when he thinks si:rch visit is necessary for the good of the Lodge, a.nd should
present a. bill to the Lodge for his necessary expenses, but not for his time.
From information received from the Secretaries, he reports the Lodges of his
district in a healthy condition.
Inspector WOODS CRAWFORD, of the Fifteenth District, considers his Lodges
to be in good :working order. Bnt little degree work has been done during the
year, except m Hartky Lodge, No. 199, which has conferred twenty-seven
degrees. The books of all the Lodges a.re kept fairly well, and the officers a.re
well Tersed in their duties.
Inspector CHARLEll 0. PERIUNB, of the Sixteenth District, reports peace
and harmony within the Lodges of his district, and that as a whole they are
fairly prosperous and well up in the work. This excellent report is well worthy a careful perusal by those desiring information regarding Masonry in Sonoma. County.
Inspector HENRY H. KMAl'P, of the Seventeenth District, wa.s not able to
visit a.II the .~ges of his district, owing to sickness and death in his family,
bnt those Vlsited were ha.rmonioqs and prosperous, thongh doing but little
work. From information obtained, he is satisfied tha.t the others a.re a.lso in
good condition.
Inspector EDWIN GLOVER, of the Eighteenth District, ha.a visited a.II the
Lodges of his district except Rio Yisla No. 208, a.nd finds a.II in a. fair con.
dition except Galt Lodge, No. 267, which for two years has had no work.
He thinks they would, if necessary, pnt themselV'611 in good working order.
The Inspector complains of the indifference of the officers of Sacramento
Lodges to the importance of meeting for practice, and refers to the visit of
the Grand Lect~rer, when only three Lodges were represented, although they
had a.II been notified. The Inspector is right, and the Sacramento brethren
make a. gre~t ~ista.ke in ~ot meeting h~ for instmction, when he is willing
to devote his time for their benefit. His report is a model and well deserves
~ertion in full, did space permit. He closes by a.gain requesting to be relieved of the lnspectorship, claiming that his three score and ten yea.rs ought
to excuse him from further service.
Inspector BYRON BALL, of the Nineteenth· District, reports that he has
not visited all the Lodges of his District, but from best information obtainable their working condition is fairly good. He notes the revival of work in
A thens and Yolo Lodges since his la.st report.
Inapector FRANCIS NICHOLLS, of the Twentieth District, has visited six of
the seven. ~odges of his district. This is a splendid report, giving in detail
the cond1t1on of ea.ch Lodge, yet without the use of a superfiuous word.
Four of his Lodges have had degree work, two of which have conferred many
degrees. With two exceptions the officers are well posted, and with one exception the Lodges are in fairly good financial condition.
Inspector WALLACE KAY, of the Twenty-first District, gives a. very intelligent n:port of each of the eight Lodges of his district. He finds them generally Ill good financial condition, though Campo 8eco, No. 100, Drytown,
No. 174, and Volcano, No. 56, are wea.k in numbers and have done but little
work. With the exception of Mokelumne Hill, No. 298, the Lodges a.II own,

•

804

Proceedings qf the

[Oct. 15,

as a whole or in part, the buildings in which they meet, some of them sharing
ownel'8hip with the Odd Fellowa. The Masters are all well posted in their
.
duties.
Inspector NATHAN R. BARBOUR, of the Twenty-third District, reports the
Lodges of his district to be in a very healthy condition, except Keystone, N ~·
161, and Valley, No. 135, which are making no advancem~nt. The latter is
threatened with disruption by internal dissension, which seems to h~ve
resulted from a poor financial condition and increasing demand fo~ charity.
The Inspector has given the Lodge good advice, which it is hope~ will ?e accepted. The other four Lodges are in good condition and steadily addmg io
'
their membership.
Inspector SAMUEL H. PERKINS, of the Twenty-sixth D~strict, ~ports that
having just been appointed Inspector, he bas not bad time to mspect the
Lodges of his district, but thinks they are all in a satisfactory condition.
Inspector RALPH Low:&, of the Twenty-seventh District, reports having
visited all the Lodges of his district, some of them many times, except
ward, No. 226, which be proposes to inspect in the near future. He has given
the Lodges considerable attention, and regards the distric~ as in goo~ condition. He says: "The utmost harmony prevails, and neither envy, discord
nor confusion exists."
Inspector FREDERICK W. LucAs, of the Twenty-eighth District, presents
a very complete report of the working condition of each of ~e nine Lodges
in his district. He gives details with a precision that shows him to be as fa.
miliar with the work of each individual Lodge as might be expected of the
Master thereof. To those desiring information concerning said district, I
would recommend a pe~sal of this excellent report of Bro. LUCAS. He finds
•
bis Lodges in satisfactory condition.
Inspector WILLIAM ADAMS, of the Twenty-ninth District, reports the three
Lodges of bis district to be in excellent condition, except Homitos, No. 98,
which has done no work, and is weak in membership; still, he thinks they
might be in worse condition, as harmony prevails to its fullest extent, and
.
the brethren are living in hopes of better times in the future.
Inspector GEORGE T. McCABE, of the Thirtieth District, sends a very neat
and comprehensive report of the aJfa.irs of his district. He thinks that, tak·
ing into consideration the existing conditions of the country, the work in the
past year and the outlook for the future are very encouraging.
Inspector ALBERT 0. CoLLINS, of the Thirty-first District, finds the ~wo
Lodges.of Inyo County in excellent condition, and their records are kept ma
very neat and correct manner. He has not been able to visit Bodie Lodge,
No. 252, o·wmg to its great distance, it being 150 miles away, but from reports
received he thinks it is in a prosperous condition.
Inspector JAMES C. ENSIGN, of the Thirty-second District, has visited all
the Lodges of his district, and has witnessed degree work in all except tw?.
The work is quite uniform throughout the district, the officers are earnest m
their efforts and the Secretaries take pride in keeping their books in a neat
and correct manner.
Inspector GEOME W. ZARTMAN, of the Thirty-third District, reports the

l!ay-

1896.]

Grand Lodge of California.

805

condition of the several Lodges of his district as satisfactory and flourishing.
Through a general reduction of the initiation fee many new members have
been added, and the quantity of work done has inspired the officers with
renewed energy in preparing themselves.
Inspector MARKS FLEISHER, of the Thirty-fourth District, has visited all the
Lodges of his district except two, and of those two he has very satisfaotory
information. They have nearly all done some work, and are in good financial
condition. The Lodges at Cambria and Arroyo Grande have resumed work,
after a period of comparative slumber, and have fair prospects. He gives our
R. •• W. •. Deputy Grand Master great credit for the manner in which he has
stood by the little Lodge at Guadalnpe and helped it along. He makes no
report on Hesperian and King David's ·Lodges, for the reason that they were
visited recently by the Grand Lecturer.
Inspector JAMES F. KINGSLEY, of the Thirty-fifth District, finds all the
Lodges of his district in good condition. The Ventura Lodges have been very
prolific in degree work, the little Lodge of Hueneme having conferred thirty.
six degrees. The Santa Barbara Lodges are having better prospects for work
than they did at the time of the Grand Lecturer's visit.
Inspector CHARLES L. ENNIS, of the Thirty-sixth District, reports that
owing to the pressure of business he has not visited all the Lodges of his dis·
trict. He has visited the six Lodges in Los Angeles city and the one at Santa
Monica, most of them more than once, and finds the officers generally to be
earnest and faithful as well as proficient in their duties. From a pel'8onal
~uaintance with officers of the other Lodges and from other information, he
is satisfied that he will find them in equally good condition when he pays
them a visit, which he proposes to do in the near future. The excellent character of the work of the district is, he thinks, largely due to the faithful efforts of his predecessor, Bro. JAMES A. FOSHAY, and also to the work of the
Grand Lecturer.
Inspector CONSTANTIN U'REN, of the Thirty-seventh District, has visited
all the Lodges of his district, except Elsinore, No. 289, and Need"lM, U. D.,
the former because it is the home Lodge of the Grand Lecturer, and the latter
because of its great distance away. He has held Lodges,of Instruction whereever he could accomplish any good, but he is not satisfied with the results.
Some of the officers are indifferent to learning the work correctly, while othel'8
do not seem to be able to retain it; Two of the Lodges, Redlands, No. 300,
and Ontario, No. 301, are very proficient, the first named bemg the most skillful. I can fnlly indorse all that .Bro. U'REN says on the subject, knowing
him to be one of the most efficient Inspectors in the State.
Inspector JAMES WELLS, of the Thirty-eighth District, sends in a model
report, which shows that Masonry has an upward tendency in San Diego
County. He has visited each of the five Lodges several times, and finds them
all in l[Ood working order, able to confer degrees in a creditable manner.
Inspector CHARLES E. MITCHELL, of the Thirty-ninth District, reports his
Lodges in good working condition, as far as he has seen them, though sickness
prevented him from visiting all of them. The new Lodge at Long Beach is
doing well, having added seven membel'8 since it started.

806

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

Inspector ANDREW BROWN, of the Fortieth District, reports Hawaiian
Lodge, No. 21, of Honolulu, a.sin a most flourishinit condition. The brethren
wertl mord careful than usual thia year in the selection of officers, with a view
to securing a better attendance of the same, and the result has been that they
have rarely assembled without having the Master, Wardens, Deacons, Secretary and Tyler in their places, thus avoiding the frequent use of pro tem. officers, by which the work ie so often marred. Many of our California Lodges
will do well to follow the example of Hawaiian Lodge in that particular. The
Lodge has held sixty-five meetings during the year, and conferred fifty.
eight degrees. The Inspector acknowledges a fraternal visit from our Junior
Grand Deacon, Bro. RALPH Low:e:, of San Jose, who has been visiting the
lelands.
The Inspectors' reports, of which the foregoing is but a brief summary,
will be found on file in the office of the Grand Secretary, where a perulia.l of
the same by those desiring more extended information regarding the districts
is respectfully invited.
The following changes in Districts and Inspectors have been made since the
·
last Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge :
A new district was formed comprising Kern County and three Lodges of
Tula.re County, viz.: Viaalia, No. 128, Olive Branch, No. 269, and Porterville,
No. 303, which will be known as the Thirty-third District.
Wilmington Lodge, No. 198, Anchor, No. 273, and Whittier, No. 323,
were transferred from the Thirty-sixth to the Thirty-ninth District. · A zusa
Lodge, No. 305, was transferred from the Thirty-ninth to the Thirty.sixth
District, and Pomona Lodge, No. 246, wa.s transferred from the Thirty.ninth
to the Thirty-seventh District.
The following new Inspectors have been appointed :
Tenth District, W. •• ADAMS BARRETT, of Dntch Flat;
JOSEPH E . RATHBUN, of Williams;
Thirteenth District,
Twenty-sixth District, W. '· S.t.MUEL H. PERKINS, of San Francisco;
Thirtieth District, W. ·. GEORGE T. McCABE, of Kni11:ht'e Ferry;
Thirty-third District, W. ·.GEORGE W. ZARTMAN, of Tula.re;
Thirty-fourth District, W. •• MARKS FLEISHER, of Santa. Maria ;
Thirty-sixth District, W. ·• CHARLES L. ENNIS, of Loe Angeles ;
Thirty-seventh District, W. ". CONSTANTIN U'REN, of Oolton ;
Thirty-eighth District, W.·. JAMES WEi.Ls, of San Diego;
Thirty-ninth District, W. •. CHARLES E. MITCHELL, of Clearwater.
Our system of Masonic Districts and Inspectors is, in my opinion, one of
the best arrangements that can be devised for the purpose of securing uniformity of work, and ie attracting favorable comment in other jurisdictions.
To make the system most effective, however, it ie of the greatest importance
that the Inspectors should be selected from the bedt and most suitable material that can be found, and having been thus selected they should be given
every possible opportunity to qualify themselves for their duties. To that
end, they should be allowed transportation to and from the meetings of this
Grand Lodge, the same as the representatives of subordinate Lodges, not
only for the purpose of meeting the Grand Lecturer, but also that they may

w.·.

1896.J

Grand Lo<lge of California.

807

acquaint themselves with the legislation of this Grand Body ; for it will be
remembered that they are required to certify to the qualifications of each
Master-elect, not only in the ritual, but also in hie knowledge of the law. I
therefore earnestly recommend that transportation be allowed to these officers
'
under such restrictions, of course, ae will secure the beet service.
During my year's work among the Lodges I have been impressed with the
need of a better text-book. Our present Monitor ie deficient in many respects.
Our Grand Secretary hae improved it very much by inserting in the last
edition the explanation of the third degree emblems, known as the " eight
claeeee, " but still it ie unsatisfactory and not suited to our present wants. I
therefore recommend that the Grand Lodge take the necessary etepe to have
a new Monitor compiled which will be complete in every particular, and illus·
tratt>d with the emblems of the chart. It should contain the ceremonies
adopted by this Urand Lodge, such as the installation services funeral service, laying comer-stones, constituting Lodges, etc., but should ~ontain noth·
ing pertaining to the law, or any matter that ie subject to revision or change.
Such work can be compiled in a volume sufficiently large for convenient uee
in the Lodge·room, yet small enough to be carried in the pocket.
I desire to call the attention of the Grand Lodge to an evil which I have
found in all pa.rte of the State, and which ie working great injury to the cause of
true Masonic charity. It ie the existence of a large number of Masonic
tramps, "':ho tra~el from place to place imposing themselves on the Fraternity
for pecumary gam. The story of one is the story of all, with slight variation.
A stranger appears who claims to be a Ma.son in extreme want, and a member of
some Eastern Lodge. He is ta.ken to the Lodge-room and examined, and
found to possess the necessary information. He receives the amount he asks
as a. loan, and goes his way. The Lodge in which he claims membership ~
co'.°municated with and the reply comes that no such person ever belonged to
said Lodge. I have all the necessary proof that there ie an orga.nized band of
rognes- poseibly expelled Masone- who are traversh1.g the State and preying
on the credulity of our cliarita.bly disposed brethren. I believe the evil can
be stamped out in one year's time by a little legislation on the part of this
Grand Lodge. First, prohibit any Lodge from granting aid to a stranger on
Ma.sonic account, until authorized to do so hy the Lodge of which he claims
to be a member; a.nd secondly, prohibit any Lodge or member thereof from
ex.amining a ~trange~ on th.e ~ecret work of our Order, simply becanee he app~es for chanty. I know 1t 1.e argued that such measures might work a hard.
ship to true Masone who are. in want, but I believe that such would rarely if
ever happen. I do not believe that Masonry was ever intended to tum out
beggars broadcast over the country, and certainly the time has come when
every trne Ma.son should keep himself in touch with his own Lodge, nnlees
he is financially independent of ite assistance.
In conclusion, I desire to extend to the brethren my sincere thanks for the
many courtesies and expressions of appreciation th~y have been pleased to
extend to me, without which my year's work would have been tiresome indeed
whereas it has been one of both pleasure and profit to myself, as I trust it h~
·
been to those with whom I have labored,
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM ERSKINE SLOAN,
Grand Lecturer.

808

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

Whioh report,. with the accompanying reports of the sever~
Inspectors, W!LB ordered to be referred to a special committee of ~ve ;
and the Grand Master named the following brethren to constitute
such committee-

1896.]

Grand Lodge of UaJ,ifornia.

809

Bro. NATHANIEr. GREENE OuBTIS, from the Committee on Juris·
prudence, presented the following report.a : To the M.". W. •• Grand Lodge of Oalifornia :-

John Marvin Melendy,
Byron Ba.ll,
On Grand Lecturer8 Report,. . • . . . . . • • , • • • George Thomas McCabe,
{ William Preston Johnson,
James Wells.

your committee have carefully examined those portions of the Address of
the Grand Master which have been referred to them, and they are happy to
report that all the decisions upon questions of Masonic law rendered by him
receive their hearty concurrence, and recommend their approval by the Grand
Lodge.

Bro. JA..HES WRIGHT ANDEBSoN, from the special committee to
whom had been referred the Report of the Grand Secretary, presented
the following report :-

Relative to a complaint presented to the Grand Master charging the Master
of Bui.Bun Lodge, No. 55, with unmasonic conduct. The Grand Master thereupon iesued commissions to seven duly qualified commissioners and directed
them to proceed with the trial of the accused. The trial was duly had. The
verdict of the commissioners was the suspension of the accused from all the
rights and privileges of Masonry. The action of the Grand Master was in
strict conformity with the provisions of the Constitution and is approved.
We respectfully recommend that the transcript of the trial record in this
case, which was also sent to us, be referred to the Committee on Grievances.

To tli.e M. •• W. •• Grand Lodge of California :your committee, to whom was referred the Sixth Annual Report of our
Grand Secretary, beg leave to report that we have carefully examined the
same and that we are of the opinion that the report of Bro. JoHNRON is so
thor~ughly well prepared, that the matters therein alluded to are ~o succinc~ly
stated and so well and judiciously referred, that little, if anything, remains
for us 'to do in order to bring its contents to the proper consideration of the
Grand Lodge.
We reo:immend that so much as relates to the formation of the new Lodges
at Needles and Long Beach, be referred to the Committee on Charters, and
that so much as relates to the finances of the Grand Lodge, be referred to the
Committee on Finance.
We desire to compliment our Worthy Grand Secretary on the conciseneBB
and comprehensiveness of his excellent report. It is to us, as it must be to all
members of this Grand Lodge, a very great pleasure and a source of great pride
to be able to report that the various matters appertaining to this important
position in our Grand Lodp;e have been so punctua~ly and properly atten~ed to
as they have been during the last year. Something more th!W salary is due
to our excellent Grand Secretary, and we are of opinion that the membership
of this Grand Lodge will heartily unite with us in rendering unto this faithful
servant the meed of praise jnstly due him for the promptitude and fidelity
with which he has discharged the duties of the position with which we
entrusted him. We are proud of our Grand Secretary, and we trust that the
eirpreeaion of this pride will nerve him to the same faithfnlness in the future
in the service of the Fraternity which he has thus far so well honored.
Respectfully submitted.
JAMF3 WRIGHT ANDBBSON,
THOMAS BENTON GRAY, .
Committee.
SIDNEY A. SMITH,
FRA.Nx A VER,

I

Which report was concurred in, and the references therein recommended were ordered to be made.

There have been referred to your committee the several dispensations
which have been issued by the Grand Master during the preceding year. Of
these several dispensations there were nine to elect officers, five to fill vacancies in office, sixteen to reballot on petitions of rejected candidates, and one
to act on a petition of a non-resident. These are matters purely within the
discretion of the Grand Master and his action is final. We have examined
the papers and find them in proper form and recommend that the action of
the Grand Master be approved.
Respectfully submitted.
NATHANIKL GREENE CURTIS,}
WILEY JAMES TINNIN,
HIRAM NEwroN RucKEB,
Committee.
WILLIAM JOHNSTON,
JAMES BAUNTY STEVENS,

All which reports were concnrred in, and the several recommendations accompanying them were adopted.
Bro. CUBTIB also presented the following :
To the M.". W. •• Grand Lodge of California:
The following memorial and resolutions were presented to the Grand
Lodge and referred to us : -

To the Most Worshipful Grand Maater and Me~be1·s of the Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Maaoll8 of California:We, the undersigned, being Master Masons in good standing, do respectfully memorialize your most Worshipful Body as follows : -

810

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

T~ere is. in the. City and County of San Francisco a certain private corporation dom~ buainees under the name of the Masonic Cemetery Association
of San Fran01sco ; 8uch corporation, although using the word " Masonic " is
not, and never has been, under the jurisdiction of this Grand Body.
'
Such corporation has in its treasury such a sum of money ($39,212.07-also
~tocks, bonds an~ notes of the value of $45,000, the same bein~ surplus or net
mcome; also va.nous tracts of land) that it could, without injury to itself,
donate a part of such eurplue or net income to the Masonic Widows' and
Orphans' ~ome, and to the. Board of Relief of this Grand Lodge, and thereby
comply w1~h the lawe of this State, under which it is incorporated.
We believe that no corporation i.n thie 8tate, private or otherwise, should
be allowe.d t? us_e th_e wor~ "Masonic," thereby appearin~ before the world as
a Ma.some mstitut1on, without being under the jurisd1ctiqil of this Grand
Lodge.
W ~ therefore .respectfully move the adoption by this Grand Lodge of the
followmg resolu t1ons : Be it Resol~, '.Tiiat _no per~on, association or corporation be perrnitteq or
~ll~we~ to use m his or its busmess or commercial affairs, any name or symbol
md1rat1ve ~f Masonry or Masonic jurisdiction, unless such person, association
or corporation be under the control and jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge and
that th~ Most Worshipful Grand Master do take such proper steps, legai and
othe~se, to carry out the purpose and object of this resolution.
Be 1t Ruolved, That the Most Worshipful Grand Master be required to.
take such ~roper proceedings, legal and otherwise, to compel the Trustees of
the ¥.ason1c Ce~etery Association of San Francisco to comply with the
pro".1s10ns of ~ection 7 of an Act of the Legislatmre of this State, authorizing
the incorporat100. of rural cemetery associations, as amended January 13, 1864,
and to .compel ea.id :rrustees,. pursuant to said ~c.t, to appropriate the surplus
or.net mcomc of said Masonic Cemetery Assocmt1on to the Board of Relief of
this Grand L?dg~, and to the Masoni.c Widows' and Orphans' Home. ·
All of which is respectfully submitted by authority of the Joint Committee of the Masonic Lodges of San Francisco.
R. H. COUNTRYMAN,
Chairman of said Join/, Committee.

1896.l

Grand LoiUJe of Oallfornla.

811

Bro. WDiLIAM SEWALL WELLS, from the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following reports :To the M. •• W. •• Grand Lodge of California :-

Your committee, to whom were referred the transcripts of the trial records
in the following cases, to wit; : PHILIP HAMMOND, suspehded by California Lodge, No. I, January 2d,
1896;
ORVILLE BENEDICT PHELPS, expelled by Hanford Lodge, No. 279, November 2d, 1895 ;
STEPHEN FARRINGTON, expelled by Evening Star Lodge, No. 186, March
28th, 1896;
JAM&l DANIEL REILLY, suspended by Forest Lodge, No. 66, August 22rl,
1896;
PETER BONARDI, expelled by Magnolia Lodge, No. 242, February 20th,
1896,
have had the ea.me under consideration and report ae follows:In the first three caeee, the records and proceedings are regular and without error of any kind; t he record in the last two cases cannot be fully approved, but the errors a.re immaterial and no substantial rights of the accused
were interfered with or affected.
The evidence in all the ca.see jnstifiee the findings, no appeal has been taken
in any of the cases, and the judgments should all be affirmed ; we therefore
offer the following resolution and recommend ite adoption : Resolved, That the judgments in the several cases above mentioned be and
the eame are affirmed and approved.

W. A. Doon,

Secretary.
CHARLES BoNE, P. M., Oriental Lodge, No. 144, F. & A. M.,
H ERMAN MULLER, P. M., California Lodge, No. 1, F. & A. M.,
F . C. HENSLEY, P. M., E xcelsior Lodge, No. 166, F. & A. M.,
W. A. Doun, P. M., Excelsior Lodge, No. 166, F. & A. M.
R. H. CouNTRYMAN, S. W., Occidental Lodge, No. 22, 1<'. & A. M.,
Executive Committee of said Joint Committee.

We have carefully considered the subject matter of the foregoing memorial
and resolutions, and find that the "Ma.sonic Cemetery Association of San
Francisco " is a. private corporation ; that it is not and never has been under
the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge; that the Grand Lodge is not a s~k­
holder in said corporation and has no control of or jurisdiction over it.
There are legal questions involved in the matter which your committee
deem unneceeeary to discnes.
We recommend that the resolutions contained in Sa.id memorial be not
adopted.

Your committee, to whom wae referred the transcript of the trial record
in the caee of DAVID ALllERT SHAW, acquitted by Aiu.Ba Lodge, No. 305, on
February 4th, 1895, report as follows :Thie case grows out of a transfer of land, a dispute having arisen a.a to
whether the transfer had been made in trast or wae absolute. The accuser
appeals, though we a.re unable to ea.y whether the appeal was ~thin the time
allowed by law, it bearing no date, yet we have carefally examined the record,
consisting of a masa of confticting and irreconoilable testimony, and have been
unable to discover that a Masonic offense ha.a been committed.
The ~ecord shows that the whole matter has been ta.ken into the civil
court, and such is the proper place to determine the rights of all the pa~es.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption : Resolved, That the jadgment of Azusa Lodge, No. 305, given on Februa1!
4th, 1895, whereby DAVID ALBERT SHAW was acquitted, be and the same is
hereby affirmed and approved.

The consideration of which was made the special order for three
o'clock this afternoon.

in the case of Ro:BERT CHRESTEBEN, sentenced to reprimand by Elk Grove.

Your committee, to whom was referred the transcript of the trial record
Lodge, No. 173, on Septt.mber 28th, 1895, report as follows:-

812

Procee,dings of the

[Oct. 15,

This is the third time this case comes before this committee, the judgment
of suspension in the first trial having been reversed for error in the record.
The accused is charged with using the most vile, vulgar and violent language on the public highway in the presence of and towards the accuser and
his wife.
The charge is full and explicit, alleging the language, manner e.nd conduct
of the accused, with great care and particularity.
The record is fair and could be approved but for the fact that there is no
evidence given, nor was there any ta.ken.
The accuser and accnsed were both present during the trial ; the accused
entered an oral answer and made a statement admitting the use of the le.nguage.
The record states that the accuser was called upon to produce his witnesses,
and he stated that he had nothing further to offer than his written charges
and specifications. The accused was then called upon to produce his ~t­
nesses, e.nd he stated that he had nothing further to offer than his oral statement and admission, and upon this the case was concluded, submitted and
d.,cided.
The accused admits his guilt, admits the use of language too vile to ·
mention here, to a Master Mason and his wife, without any provocation.
His conduct and language, as admitted by himself, was unbecoming a man
and a Mason, and it should have met with severer punishment.
It seems useless to send this case back ; there must be an end to it as well
as to other good things, and your committee therefore offer the following resolution and recommend ita adoption;Resolved, That the judgment of Elk Grove Lodge, No. 175, given on Sep tember 28th, 1895, whereby ROBERT CRRll:STESEN was sentenced to reprimand,
be and the same is hereby reversed, and the said RoBERT CHRESTESEN be
and he hereby is, by this Grand Lodge, suspended from all the rights and
privileges of Masonry.
Your committee, to whom was referred the transcript of the trial record
in the case of SAll!UEL GEORGE BAKER, expelled on August 18th, 1896, by
Norwalk Lodge, No. 315, report as follows:The accused was charged with making threats against the life of a Master
Mason. The proceedings are regular, the evidence, including a certified copy
of the transcript of the Justice of the Peaoe, before whom a charge had been
filed, resulting in a judgment holding the accused to keep the peace under
one thouse.nd dollars bond, justifies the findings. An appeal has been taken
by the accused, but it is without merit.
• We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:Resolved, That the judgment of Norwalk L~e, No. 315, given on August
18th, 1896, whereby SAMUEL GEORGE BAKER was expelled from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry, be and the same is hereby affirmed.

1896.J

. 813

Gmnd Lodge of Oalifornia.

Your committee, to whom was referred the transcript of t he trial record
in the case. of WILLIA.II! HENRY MENTOR, expelled on April 25th, 1896, by
Janesville Lodge, No. 232, report as follows:The accused is charged with obtaining the sum of five hundred and fifty
dollars by means of a forgei promissory note, which he ma.de and passed.
This record also comes to us in fair condition, e.nd could be approved
with the single exception that the only evidence is an affidavit taken and
made before a Notary Public, in the town of Susanville, of which time and
place of taking the accused had been duly notified.
It wa.s undoubtedly the intention to take a deposition, notice was given to
the accnsed that an affidavit would be taken, and the document is e.n affidavit
e.nd contains no statement as to who wa.R present at t he time it was taken.
It is full e.nd complete, giving in detail an interview had by the deponent
with the aocnsed concerning the obtaining of the money and t he statements
and admissions of the accused to the deponent.
It shows clearly that the accused admitted the facts of the forgery and the
receipt of the money, the return of a greater portion of the money, the spending of a portion and an offer to give his personal note for the p_o rtion so spent.
The accused was not present at the trial, nor before the Notary, so far as
is shown by·the record, and no appeal bas been taken.
That the offense, a most serious one, meriting the enforcement of the extreme penalty, was committed by the accused, is conclu1ively shown by the
evidence, and though it may not have been taken and transcribed ent irely
r..ud completely in the manner provided by our Constitution, yet the time and
place of taking was designated, the accused had notice and ample opportunity
to avail himself of the privile11e of being present bad be desired.
While we cannot approve the procadure, a.nd must ~gain warn subordinate Lodges to exercise greater care in the trial of their cases, and particularly in the taking of evidence, this case is one that can properly be taken in
band by this Grand Lodge, and we therefore offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption :Resolved, That the judgment of Janesville Lodge, No. 232, given on April
25th, 1896, whereby WILLIA.II! HENRY MENTOR was expelled from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry, be and the same is hereby reversed, and the said
WILLIAM HENRY MENTOR be and be hereby is, by this Grand Lodge, expelled
from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Respectfully submitted.
)
WILLIAll! SEWALL W.ELLS,
WILLIA.II! THOll!AS REYNOLDS,
Committee.
EDWARD REESE THOMPSON,
FRANK KAVANAGH LIPPITT,
JonN ALLISON BwKwrrH,

f

All which reports were concurred in, and the resolutions accom·
pa.nying them were adopted.
The M.·. W.·. Grand Master, on behalf of the Grand Lodge, pre11ented Past Grand Master JAMES BAUNTY STEVlllNS with a beautiful
gold jewel, indioative of his rank.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this aftemoon.

814

Proceedings of the

[Oct- 15,

1896.J

Grand LO<lge of Oalifornia.

815

Bro. EnsoN A. HoruraEox, from the Committee on By-Laws of
Lodges, presented the following report ;....:::..

~u ~rand ~odge.
.AF'l'EBNOON SESSION,

l

Thursday, October 15th, .A. L. 5896. f

The Grand Lodge was ca.lied on e.t two o'clock, the Grand Me.Ster
presiding.
Bro. 1_il"AT.lliN WESTON SPAULDING pres_enteci' the following:-

l
GRAND LoDGE OF MAINE.
PoRTL.AliD, September 4, 1896. f
R. •. W. •. Nathan W. Spau"ltling, Repruentative of the Grand Lodge of Maine
near the Grand Lodge of California:DEAR Sm AND BROTHER: At the recent Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Maine, the Committee on Masonic Jnrisprudence submitted a
report in relation to rejected candidates, which was accepted, and the following
resolutions were adopted, viz:
Resolved, Thap this Grand Lodge is deeply impressed with the necessity of
nniform legislation by the several Grand Lodges in relation to the admission
of rejected candidates.
Ruoltied, That the effect of a rejection should be limited to five y~are, and·
that during that time the candidate should be allowed to petition only to the
Lodge which rejected him, or to another Lodge with the consent of that Lodge,
or such consent of officers and members of that Lodge as may be prescribed
by the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction in which the rejection occun.
Resolved, That each of the ltepresentatives of this Grand Lodge be
requeated to present these resolutions to the Grand Lodge to which he is
accredited and request for them fraternal consideration.
The Report will be found in the printed Proceedings (pages 43 to 56), a
copy of which has been forwarded to your address.
In accordance with the resolutions, you are requested to present them and
the Report, in behalf of the Grand Lodge of Maine, to your Grand Lodge and
request its fraternal consideration thereof.
Yours fraternally,
STEPHEN B&RRY,
Grand Secretary.
Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

·.

The specie.l report of the · Boe.rd of Relief of San Francisco, pre·
sented by Bro. OVERTON and referred to the Committee on Fine.nee,
was referred back by that committee with the recommendation that it
be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence. It was so ordered.

...

To the M. •• W. ·• Grand Lodge oj Oalijornia :your committee beg leave to report as follows : In the case of proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges Nos. 12, 249
and 292, reducing the amount of annual tines, the same having been disapproved by the Grand Master, your committee recommend that his action be
affirmed.
In the case of the proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges Nos.
38, 50, 91, 93, 114, 132, 141, 146, 166, 175, 179, 193, 205, 206, 235, 240, 245,
249, 258, .284, 285, 288, 291, 297 and 321, reducing the fees for degrees, the
same havmg been approved by the Grand Master, your committee recommend
that his action be affirmed.
In the case of the proposed amendment to the By-Laws of Lodge No. :io
in regard to striking out the words "and one dollar upon the death of a mem~
ber," the ea.me having been approved by the Grand Master, your committee
recommend that his action be affirmed.
. In t~e ca.se of the p':°posed amendment to the By-Laws of Lodge No. 9,
1Il relation to the establishment of a charity committee consisting of the Mas.
ter an~ Wardens, the same having been approved by the Grand Master, your
committee recommend that his action be affirmed.
~the case ~f ~he proposed amendment to the By-Laws of .Lodge No. 284,
oreatmg an affiliation fee, the same having been approved by the Grand Master, your commiUee recommend that his action be affirmed.
. In t~e cas~ of th~ proposed a?1e~dment to the By-Laws of Lodge No. 216,
m relation to mcreasmg the a~hation fee, the same having been approved by
the Grand Master, your committee recommend that his action be affirmed.
In the c11ose of the proposed amendm<!nt to the By-Laws of Lodges Nos. 95,
143, 161, 206, 229, 303, and 324, in relation to redacing amount of annual
dues, the same having been approved by the Grand Master, your committee
recommend that his action be affirmed.
In. the case of the proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodge No. 57,
reducmg dues of members and changing time of meeting, the same having
been approved by the Grand Master, your committee recommend that his
action be affirmed.
. In t?e case of the propoeed amendment to the By-Laws of Lodge No. 124,
m relation to changing time of meeting, the same having been approved by
the Grand Master, your committee recommend that his action be affirmed.
. In t?ii cas~ of th~ proposed amendment to the By-Laws of Lodge No. 158,
in relation to mcreas1ng the dues of members, the same having been approved
by the Grand Master, your committee recommend that his action be affirmed.
I~ the case of the proposed amendment to the By-Laws of Lodge No. 134,
relative to the reduction of annual dnes, the approval of the Graud Master
having been withheld on account of not knowing the financial condition of
the Lodge, yonr committee report that the Master and Wardens of said
Lodge appeared before your committee and represented the condition of said
Lodge to be as follows : -

[Oct. 15,

Proceedings of the

816

one of its
te f $3000 ()() held by
. .
• that its resources
The Lodge owns its bu~dmg ~ess : ~o :on of. ~g~
h d $200 to~l amoun t
members, which loa.n may contm ue a op h
~ terest :n loan $270 .
...
~:
cas
$720;
dues,
$510;
are as follows: Rents,
'
"
'30 Li abilit'ies-Ge neral expenses, 'll'O'ZF• IDd $40-t otal amoun t
income, $1,'t ·; salary Secretary, $30 ; Cemetery un '
insurance, $33
ted
. . be
expenses, $457.
u' D and Needles
Your committee recommend that the petitio n gran
d that
.,
I n the case of the By-Laws of Long Beach Lodge, .d recommen
an
•
same
th
e
d
·
e
examm
have
.
ittee
comm
our
Lodge, U . D ., Y
the same be approved.
Frater nally submitted.
•
EDSON A. HORNB ECK, (
DANIEL MoPHETRES, r Committee.
OSCAR OtTO FREEMAN, J

accom panyi ng
Whio h was concu rred in, and the recom mend ations
it were adopt ed.
Joaqu in .Lo~ge,
Bro ADELBERT WILLIAM DAVIDSON, Master of San
un1ca.tion.
Oomm
this
a.t
a.nce
a.ttend
r
wa.s excused from furthe
No.
from Bro.
Bro ORRIN STAPLES HENDERSON prese nted a. claim
ed to the
referr
we.a
which
;
sa.lary
extra.
for
Y
ANDBH~ MURRAY HENDR
ee.
Fina.n
on
ittee
Oomm
indeb tedROBERT FURLONG prese nted a. statem ent showi ng
B
E. BA.LL,
J.
of
ca.re
for
the Grand Lodg e to Marin
.
.
dee.th
s
BALL
Bro.
of
time
the
the so.me being be.la.nee due a.t
on Fina.nee.
Whic h wa.s ordere d to be referr ed to the Oommittee

19,'

~ro.

L~ge

ness:~·

Bro. J.uras WRIGHT ANDERSON presen ted the
tion: -

follow ing resolu requ~eHd to ertehct

Resolved That in view of the fact that much will yet be
. W.i'd owe.• ~nd Orpha
d ns h fome, blee
• the structu re for the Masonic
ete

and compl

esterd ay placed m position un er sue

avora

fratern ally solicited
of w i~ i::g :of this Jurisd iction are most
corn~r-stonhe
spective memth ·
t e severa
h' h

auspices,
. ea.r
e~ re M
upo~
to consent to the imposition of a per capita. tax
y .
ason1c
g
mcomm
the
for
er
memb
per
bershi p in the sum of one dollar

on F'ma.nce•
·
Whic h was a.lso referr ed to the Oomnuttee
on Fin~nce,
Bro. OHA.RLBB LEWIS PATTON, from the Oommittee
:
ts
prese nted the following repor
. .
To the M. •• w. ·. Grand Lodge of California :-application of Phamr
i; Lodge,

:n,

'tte to whom was referre d the
Y
ed member of
Lo
our comm1 e,
~n ~g the following
E
No. 178, for assistance in caring for Bro. GEORG
an au m1
tha.t Lodge, have oarefully considered the matter
repor t:

189'6'.J

(Jran a Lodge of Oalifornia.

817'

strong enough to supThe committee feel tha.t this Lodge is numerically
the presen t year, U4
for
report
their
by
shown
port this brother, having, as
members on its roll.
d.
We therefore recommend that the requeet be not grante
tion of Bro. GEORGE T.
Your committee, to whom was referred the resolu
tors while in attend Inspec
to
e
milea.g
of
nt
payme
McCABE, providing for the
the reBQlution be not
that
ance at the session of the Grand Lodge, recommend
adopted.
Respect~lly submi tted.
}
JAOOB HART NED",
HENEY HAY KNAPP,

CHARLES LEwrs PATTON,
EnwARD SHARP V .AUNTINE,
GEORGE MAIBS PERIN&,

Both which Were concu rred in, a.nd the recom mend
panyi ng them were adopt ed.

Committee.

ations a.ccom-

eration of the
This being the hour for the specia.l order, the consid
tions offered
resolu
the
on
ce
ruden
Jurisp
on
repor t of the Oommittee
pon, the repor t of
by Bro. OOUNTBDUN ; after a. fnll discus sion thereu
ed.
adopt
we.a
ittee
comm
the
on Fina.nee,
Bro. 0HA.BLES LEw1s PATTON, from the Oommittee
Tree.sGrand
the
of
books
the
on
t
Exper
presen ted the repor t of the
:s
urer a.nd Grand Secre tary, a.s follow
Lodge of California :To the Ji'inance Committe.e of the .M.•; W. '. Grand
report of the examinaSzRS A.~D BRETHREN-H11rewith I hand you my
acy, GEORGE JOHNSON,
Secret
Grand
the
of
rs
vouche
tion of the books and
AN,
CoLEH
D
EDWAR
rer,
Treasu
and Grand
jurisdiction, examined
I have checked all return s from Lodgee within this
money received from
for
aries
Secret
l
severa
the
to
sent
ts
the stubs of receip
for moneys paid
books
the
d
checke
and
them for account of this Grand Lodge,
also checked
have
I
ON.
JOHNS
ary
Secret
Grand
by
AN
Grand Treasu rer CoLEM
.AN, comCOLEH
rer
Treasu
Grand
your
by
all vouchers for moneys pa.id out
properly
rs
vouche
find
I
a.nd
nts,
payme
said
for
drawn
pared the warran ts
After
ed.
examin
just
books
per
as
ts
semen
filed and numbered for all disbur
I have examined
31st,
July
ending
year
ic
Mason
the
·for
s
return
the
examining
and I find the Secret ary
the return s from July 31st, 1896, to October 3d, 1896,
by him ; accoun t more
d
receive
s
money
all
rer
Tree.su
the
to
over
has turned
:folios
ing
follow
the
in
forth
set
fully

17

818

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

· account w..
. ..:.h t•·
r -""ne F & A. M. of CalifO'l"nw.
The <kand Treasurer, in
'"" "-and
.,.,
~
·
REOBIPTS.

1895.
$ 2,485 44
Aug. 1. To balance on hand, ............... .
" cash received from Grand Secretary, account of General Fund, $19,925 60
" cash received from Grand Secretary, aco't Representative Fund.. 4,326 00
" cash, interest on Blue Lake Water
Bonds, •..........•...........• __420
__oo_
24,671 60
Total receipts, •....................... ·
$27,157 04

Grand total, ..................••. · · · · · · ·
DISBURSEMENTS.
Disbursed as per warrants drawn on me by Grand Beere'
. 1us1ve,
. .... · · · · · · · · · · · · $20•144 89
tary JOHNSON,
Nos. 1to130, me
Disbursed, as per Representative Fund pay roll book, · .• · • 3,746 25
Rebate to N. W. SPAULDING, ex-Grand Treasurer, as per
order of the Grancl. Lodge.•.............. · · · · · · · · · · · · -~

Balance on hand August 1st, 1896, .......... · · • · • · · •
Upon the completion of my examination of the books and
vouchers for the· Masonic fiscal year ending July 31,
1896 I checked out all returns received by the Grand
Secr~tary from various Lodges in this i urisdlction, and
I find reported the sum of..........................._.$21,737 25
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer, October 3d, 1896, viz.:To balance close of the year, ................. · · .. · · · · · · · .$ 2,983 40
" cash received from Grand Secretary, account of the pres. year, ..•..•...........••.. · · · · · · · · · · · · ·_....:...__
21737 25
ent Me.some
Grand total •........•••.. • .. · . · · .. · · · · · • · · · · • · · · · ·
DISBURSED.

Grand Lor!ge of Oalifornia.

819

To 'he M. ·• W. •. Grand Lodge of California :Y onr committee have examined the reports of the Boards of Relief of San
Francisco, Los Angeles, Oakland, Sacramento, San Diego and Stockton, and
believe great care has been taken by the several Boards in their disbursements. We have listened to the requests of the representatives of the several
Boards, and would have been pleased to make the recommendations requested,
but we are reminded that the funds of this Grand Lodge will not warrant the
same.
We recommend that the Secretaries 'of the several Boards of Relief be
instructed, in making their reports to this Grand Lodge, to embody in such
reports a separate statement of the amounts expended for and owing by each
Grand Jurisdiction other than California. .After due consideration of the
several reports yonr committee offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:-

Reaolved, That the sum of eight thousand nine hundred (8,900) dollars be
appropriated from the General Fund, to be distributed as follows : -

24,173 64

Total disbursements.....•..... •...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

1896.]

$ 2,983 40

To the Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco ($2,000 payable
immediately and $4,000 after January 1st, 1897) .•..•••••••• $6,000 00
To the Board of Relief of the City of Los Angeles. • • . • • . . . . . . . . . . 1, 750 00
To the Board of Relief of the City of Oakland.................... 400 00
To the Board of Relief of the City of Sacramento. . . • . . . . . . . • • . . • • 350 00
To the Board of Relief of the City of San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . • . • • • • . 250 00
To the Board of Relief of the City of Stockton................... 150 00
Respectfully submitted.
JAOOB Hit.RT NEFF,
}
HENRY HAY KNAPP,
CHARLES LEWIS PATTON,
Committee.
EDWARD SHARP VALENTINE,
GEORGE MAIRS PERINE,

$24,720 65

As per warrants drawn on me by Grand Secretary, •.• •• .. •·

1,628 66

Balance on hand October 3d, 1896,.......... • · .. · ·

$23,091 99

your Grand Treasurer will report fully regarding assets in his possession
belonging to the Grand Lodge, viz : Hall stock, U. S. bonds, Blue Lake water
stock, etc.
d, h
I take pleasure in reporting that I find vouchers for e.very dollar expende t e
bank book balance agreeing with the books, and everythmg correct.
Respectfully submitted.
L. WADHAM,
Expert Accountant.

Which was ordered filed in the office of the Grand Secretary·
Bro. GEORGE MAms PERINE, from the Committee on Finance, pre·
sented the following report :-

After a number of amendments had been proposed and considered,
the report of the committee was finally adopted as read.
Bro. CHARLES LEWIS PATTON presented the report of the Board
of Trustees of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, and the
reports Qf the Secretary and Treasurer, as follows :To the M. •• W. ·• Edward Myers Preston,
Grand Master F. & A. M. qf Oalifornia:The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home of
California herewith submits the fifth annual report of its work during the
year:The Board organized by the election of the following officers : CHARLES L.
PATTON, President; CHARLES F. CROOKER, Vice-President; GEORGE JOHNSON,
i&eoretary; EDWARD COLEMAN, Treasurer.
In accordance with the last report submitted by the Board, the springs
tnentioned therein, with sufficient ground around them, together with full

820

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 15,

right of way for all purposes, were purchased for the sum of $2000 and fully
·
paid for.
The :Board then selected a site for the building, and :Bro. W. W. :BRIER, of
Alameda Lodge, No. 167, surveyed and laid out a road to the same, and specifi.
cations were made for the necessary grading, road making and foundations for
.
.
•
.
the building.
At a regular meeting of the :Board bids were received for grading the site
and making the road, and this contract was let to :Bro. E. :B. STONB, of San
Leandro, he being the lowest bidder.
At a subsequent meeting bids were received for laying the necessary pipes
to carry the water from the springs to our property, and the contract was let
to Russ:e:LL & SMALLEY, of Haywards, they being the lowest bidders. The
necessary pipe for this purpose was purchased by the :BO&"d at a very low
price.
The contract for laying the concrete foundations was let to :Bros. WIIBON
~d PETERSEN, of MiaBion Lodge, No. 169, they beingthe lowest bidders.
:Bro. :BRIER, the engineer of the :Board, employed a number of men to
clean out and fence the springs, and we are pleased to report that we have
developed about 12,000 g&llons in the twenty-four hours, of ve~ _fine,_ pure
water for domestic purposes, and that it has been piped to the buildi~ s~te.
As these contracts have .not yet been entirely completed, and as it will be
impOBSible to estimate the exact cost of improvements until the amount ~f
grading done, pipe laid, and concrete laid, is definitely determined by the architect and engineers, it is impoasible to give the exa.ot cost of the work.
The Grand Lodge having attended the laying of the corner-stone of the
building, it will be unnecessary to make auy co~ents on. the character of
the work, the object having been to have everything done ID the most substantial manner.
All bills have been met as they beca.me due and there is more than
.
enough money subscribed to pa.y a.11 the a.mounts ~ontracted for: .
The :Board proposes to proceed with the erection of the bnildmg ea~ly ID
the spring, and trusts tha.t the Home will be dedica.ted a.t the next meeting of
the Grand Lodge.
The enthusiasm of the Craft in the matter of the Home has been ma.rked,
and there is no question that all funds necessary for the purpose will be forth·
•oming as the work progresses.
The :Board has not m&de any great attempt to collect funds or donations
during the past year, but it desires to call the attention of the brethren to the
fact that subscriptions to the fund should be made by all who have the success of this lasting monument of the charity of the Masons of California at

heart.

The Trustees would request that the Grand Lodge consider the ad visabili~
of establishing a special fund for the erection and maintenance of this Home.
In submitting the result of the :Board's labors of. the year for the approval
of the Ma.eons of California, it is but fitting to express its thanks to the hreth•
ren who have rendered it possible to make the progress indicated.
To :Bro. W. W. :BRIIIB, of Alameda Lod!Je, No. 167, the Board is indebted

1896.]

Grand Lodge of CoJ,ijortci.a.

821

for th~ donati~n of a large portion of his time during the entire year, and it is
but fair to ~1m to say that the success attending its efforts is due in a great
D1easure to his competent engineering and surv•ying, and that ~o far he has
I006pted no compensation for his services in surveying a pipe line from the
1prings to our land and laying out a road to the site.
:Bro. EoKART, o~ California Lodge, No. 1, also gave us the benefit of hie
experie.nce and skill as an engineer and surveyor in selecting and purchasing
the apnngs from Mr. QUIGLEY, and we are greatly indebted to him.
Last April Golden Gate Commandery gave an exhibition drill for the benefit
of the Home, and has turned into the fund the sum of $700 as the proceeds of
the entertainment.
The Raymond Granite Co. has donated to the Board the corner-stone of
the building and furnished labor neceBBary for its laying.
Mr. FARWELL, of Niles Quarries, has donated the other dreSBed stone
necessary to laying the comer-stone.
:Bro. R. VOLLMER, S. W. of Alameda Lodge, No. 167, has, during the entire year, attended to leasing our Ian~ and collecting and marketing our share
of the produce, for which he will accept no compensation.
. ~n fact, the Board may conclude by saying that the brethren of the jurisdiction have done evl!rything in their power to assist in this ca.use, and it asks
the members of the Grand LOdire to carry to the brethren of their respective
Lodges the request for subscriptions and donatioI1a t-0 this Home, in order that
there may be no delay in the good work.
Frat.ernally submitted.
CHARLES LEWIS PATTON,
CHARLES FREDERICK CROCKER,
JAOOB VOOI18ANGBR,
WILLIAM JOHNSTON,
WILLIAM FRA.Nx PIERCE,
NATHANIEL GREBNB CURTIS,
FRA.Nx MARION ANGBLLO'ITI,
REPORT OF SECRETARY.
To ~Board of Trwiteea of the Maaonic Wido'IH' and Orphana' HIYl'/lle ;The undersigned herewith submits hie account of receipts and payments from
the first day of October, 1895, to the ninth day of October, 1896, as follows:REOEIPTS.
1896.
Apr. 21. From Holluter Chapter, No. 68, R. A. M., . . .. ... . S 20 oo
20 00
" Hueneme Lodge, No, 311,...... ... .. ... .....
May. 6.
10 oo
" Ocean View Chapter, 0. E. S.,.. ......... .. .
7.
25 oo
" Monrovta Lodge, No. 308, .. .. •• .. . .. • ... ..
" 13.
Grand Lodge F. and A. M., ................ 2,000 oo
" 20.
30 oo
Georgetotim Lodge, No. 25,. .. .. . .. . . • . . .. ..
" 21.
45 50
... Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8, and members,,, .. , •
June fi.
25 oo
" &nora Chapter, No. 2, R. A. M.,. . ...... . ...
" 5.
" Drill Corpe of G. G. Commandery,......... 700 oo
Sept. 16.
" Grand Chapter R. A. M., .. . .. .. .. .. .. • .. .. 500 oo
" 21.
Oct. 3.
25 00
'' South San F'ranci8co Lodge, No. 212, • , , , .. , .
" Live Oak Lodge, No. 61,.. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . 100 oo
5.
" Proceeds of sales and rent of land, ..•.. , , , • 794 16
" 7.
Makinir total receipts for the year, of, ..... . ..... .. .. - - - - 14,294 66

[Oct. 15,

Proceedings of the

822

PAYMENTS.
1896.
M
20 Paid Treasurer, as per his receipt, ......... · · · · · · .12,000 00
Sa~. 22.
"
"
" " ''
"
••.••••.•...... 1,200 00
ep · ·
" " ,,
...••...•...... 1,094 66
Oct. 9.
Making total payments, as above, of, ....... · · · · · · · ·
Respectfully submitted.

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

823

Bro. JOHN SToBEB MoBam:m, from the Committee ~n Charters, presented the following reports ; To the M.'. W. '. Grand Lodge oj Oalifornia :4,294 66

GEORGE JOHNSON, Stcretary.

REPORT OF TREASURER.
To the BOIJJ1'd of TrWIUU of the Masonic Widowa' and Orphans' Home :~

The undersigned herewith submits bis account of the receipts and expenditures
of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home for the past year, as follows :-:1891>-9S.
Sl 361 33
Oct 1 Balance on hand as per last account, . .. .. · . · · · · · · • · · · · · • · · · · · · •
. . Received from Grand Secretary during year, . ·· . . . .. · .. · · · · · · · 4,294 66
$5,655 99
DISBURSEMENTS.
May 23. Paid Chas. L. Patton for purchase of Quigley
Springs, voucher 74, ..•............... · .. · · · . $2,000 00
June 11. Paid Chas. L. Patton for continuing abstract and
searching Quigley deed, voucher 75...... . ....
9 50
Sept. 22. Paid E. B. Stone for grading Home site, voucher 76, 2,000 00
Oct. 6. Paid Secretary salary for ten months, voucher77 ,. . . 250 00
4C
6. Paid Chas. L. Patton taxes on property at Decoto,
voucher 78, ........... . ...... · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · 128 35

.

1896.]

--- 4,387 85

$1,268 14.
Ba.lance on hand October 1st, 1896,...... . . ·. · · · · · · . • ·
All which is respectfully submitted.
EDWARD COLEMAN, Treasurer.

All which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Bro. JAMES WBIGHT ANDEJISON presented the following reso~nti?n:
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge hereby respectfully notifies all subo~di·
nate Lodges of this jurisdiction, and all members ~ereof, that no corporation
"zati"on not subJ" ect to the control of this Grand Lodge, heretofor&
or organl
·
·t·
formed or that may hereafter be formed, shall have any Masomc recogm ion.
by this Grand Lodge.

Bro. RoBEBT HANOVER ComrrBYMA-N presented the following :ReMlved, That no Mason, association or corporation be permitt&d or allowed to use in his or its buaineBB or commercial affairs any name or s~m?ol
indicative of Masonry or Masonic jurisdiction, unless such_Mason, assoc1at10n
or corporation be under the control and jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, or
some subordinate Lodge within this jurisdiction.

Both which were}referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Your committee beg leave to report as follows:We have carefully examined the records and papers of Needlu Lodge,
Needles, California. The petition for dispensation was accompanied by the
dimit.s of the petitioners and the proper recommendations and certificates.
The record book has been kept in oonformity with our regnlations and in
a neat and creditable manner; the various papers are all on file and correct; the
Lodge is free from debt; there are thirty members on the roll; they have conferri.d twelve degrees since receiving their dispensation; and your committee
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption : -

Resolved, That a charter be granted to Needles Lodge, located at Needles,
in the county of San Bernardino, California.

We have carefully examined the records and papers of Long Beach Lodge,
at Long Beach, California.
The petition for dispensation was accompanied hy the dimits of the
petitioners and the proper recommendations and certificates.
The record book has been kept in conformity with our regula.tions in a
very creditable manner ; the various papers are all on file and correct; the
Lodge is free from debt ; there are thirty-four members on the roll; they have
conferred thirteen degrees since receiving their dispensation; and your com·
mittee offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption : -

Resolved, That a charter be granted to Long Beach Lodge, located at Long
Beach, in the county of Los Angeles, California.
Respectfully submitted.
JORN STORER McBRIDE,
WILLIAM SIMS,

RoBERT FuRLONG,

!

.

Oommutee.

DANIEL JONES,

Which were concurred in, and the resolutions accompanying them
were adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called oft' until ten o'clock to-morrow
morning.

824

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 16,

~n Srantl ~odge.
MoBNING SESSION,
}
Friday, October 16th, .A. L. 5896.
The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
After music by the choir, a.nd prayer by the Grand Cha.plain, the
minut~s of the sessions of yesterday were read and approved.

Bro. ANDBEW JAoxsoN RABE, from the Committee on Credentia.ls,
reported the following additional officers of Lodges and Past Masters
by service within this Jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to
sea.ts, viz :Corinthian .. No. 9 ••••. FRANCIS WILLIAM HowARD AARON, Past Maste'r,
Woodland .. . No. 156 ... JAMBS KERSON SHITH, Past Master.
Penrhyn ... . No. 258 .• . JAHES PENJ>RAZE MEDLAND PHILLIPS, P. M. and Rep.

Which report wa.s concurred in, and the brethren therein no.med
were admitted to seats.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Bros. EnwABD .
CLEMENT ATKINSON and FBEDERIOK WILLIAM LuoAs, additiona.l members of the Committee on Ritual.
Bro. H&NBY .A KELLER presented the following resolution:Re11olved, That it be the sense of this Grand Lodge that the Grand Master
elect (and any influential brother that be necessary) use his good offices and
endeavor to get a reduction in telegraph rates fro~ the Western Union and
Postal Telegraph Companies, for all Lodges in this Jurisdiction as 'l'i ell as the
Boards of Relief. Such messages to be signed by either the Master or Secretary of ea.ch Subordinate Lodge, or by the President or Secretary of the
respective Boards of Relief.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Bro. JoHN MABVIN MELENDY, from the specie.I committee on the
Report of the Grand Lecturer, presented the following report :-

1896.J

Grand Lodge of California.

825

First. We would in the outset commend the indefatigable energy and zeal
:manifested by the Grand Lecturer in his untiring and painstaking efforts to
;Secure uniformity of work, and heartily condemn the indifference of those
.Inspectors who failed to make any report to the Grand Lodge, believing that
no brother should accept a position, however onerous, unless with the determination and purpose to discharge the duties devolving upon it to the best of
.his ability.
Second. We heartily approve the recommendation of the Grand Lecturer,
touching the compilation of a new Monitor, and we recommend that that por·
tion of the Grand Lecturer's address be referred to the committee appointed
by the M. '. W. '. Grand Master on the revision of the Ritual
Third. While we recognize the good intent of the Grand Lecturer, in rela.
tion to the prohibiting the granting aid to a stranger on Masonic acccount until
authorized to do so by the Lodge of which he claims to be a member, we believe
that each individual case is a matter which can best be left tO the Master to
whom application is made for assistance, and we believe that great caution
should be exercised in dealing with such cases.
Fourth. In regard to that portion of the M." W. •• Grand Master's
address referred to this committee, relating to the formation of new Masonic
districts, and the appointment of Inspectors, we recommend that the action of
the Grand Master be approved.
Fifth. WHEREAS, The Grand Lecturer has devoted more than two hundred and twenty-six days (226) days in visiting and instructing the Craft in
the secret work of the Order, and has necessarily expended a sum largely in
excess of the appropriation ; therefore be it
Rll8olved, That the Grand Lecturer be allowed for his eervices for thA ensuing year the sum of one thousand ($1000) dollars, together with such further
sums as he shall have necessarily expended in the discharge of the duties of his
office; provided, however, that such total expenditures shall in no event exceed
the sum of five hundred ($500) dollars ; and provided further, that he shall
1ubmit with his annual report to the Grand Lodge an itemized account of the
sums actually paid out as such expenses.
All which is respectfully submitted.
JOHN MARVIN MELENDY,
}
BYRON BALL,
GEORGE T:eoMAS McCABE,
O,ommittu.
WILLIAM PRESTON JOHNSON,
JAMES WELLS,

The recommendations were concurred in, and the resolution was
referred to the Committ9e on Finance.

To the M. '. W. '. Grand Lodge of Oalijornia : -

The M.·. W.'. Bro. JAOOB MAY.ER, Past Grand Master of Oregon,
was announced, and invited to a seat in the Grand East.

your committee, to whom was referred the annual report of the Grand
Lecturer, have carefully examined the same, and respectfully submit the following : -

Bro. 0HARLEB LEwrs PATTON presented the report of the expert on
the books of the Home, as follows :-

826

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 16,

To the Finance Committee of the M. '. W. ·• Grand Lodge of Oalifornia :Srns A.ND BRETllREN: I beg to submit to you the report of my examina.·
tion of the books and vouchers of the Secretary of the Masonic Widows' and
Orphans' Home for the pa.st Masonic year. I find cash in hands of the Grand
Treasurer as follows, viz :1895.
$1,361 35
Aug. l. To balance on ha.nd, . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . • • • . . . . . .
yea.rthe
during
To received
Jt'rom Hollister Chapter, No. 68, R. A. M .. • . . $ 20 00
20 00
" Hueneme Lodge, No. 311, . . . . • .. . • • .
IO 00
" Ocean View Chapter, 0. E. S.,.. . • • . . •
25 00
" Monrovia Lodge, No. 308, . ..... ••• • ••
" Grand Lodge F. and A. M., .•. • • . .... 2,000 00
30 00
" Georgetown Lodge, No. 25, • . • . . . . . . .
25 00
" Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8, ..•••. ; . . • .. .
20 50
members,... . . • • . . .
"
"
"
25 00
" Sonora Chapter, No. 2, R. A. M., . . . . •
" Drill Corps G. G. Commande ry,.... . . 700 00
" Grand Chapter R. A. M., . . . . • . . • • • . • 500 00
25 00
" So. San Francisco Lodge, No. 212,....
" Live Oa.k Lodge, No. 61, • . . . • . • • . . . . 100 00
" For rent of land,.. . • . • .. • • .. • .. • .. .. 794 16
Tota.I receipts, ... . ............ ... . .. .

4,294 66 :

Gra.nd tota.l. . . ............ . . ........... ..

$5,656 01

DISBURSED.

For water supply, . . . ............ ... . ..... $2,009 50
" buildings, etc., .... . . ... ........ . ..... 2,000 00
" salary Secretary,.. . ...... . . . ......... 250 00
" ta.xes 1895 and 1896,. . . • • • • • . . • • . • • . . • 128 35
Total disbursemen ts, . . .. •.. . ..•. . ...

4,387 85

$1,268 16
To balance in hands of Treasurer, • . ..
taken of
balance
Trial
expended.
dollar
every
for
file
on
are
Vouchers
ledger, a.nd everything correct.
Herewith find names of Lodges which have subscribed and not pa.id up in
full :A.mount
Amount
Amount
Name of Lodge.
Due.
Paid.
Subscribed.
$1,000 00
$9,000 00
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M . ..•. • ....•.. $10,000 00
4,000 00
1,000 00
Grand Commander y, K. T ...• . ....... 5,000 00
00
1,500
00
3,?00
00
•
••
5,000
.•
•
..
.
....
M
A.
R.
Chapter,
Grand
l,000 00
500 00
No. 1. .... 1,500 00
California Lodge,
112 50
37 50
Tehama Lodge,
" 3 ..... 150 00
125 00
125 00
250 00
17 .••••
La Parfaite Union Lodge,
100 00
00
100
..
...
19
San Joaquin Lodge,
"
500 00
500 00
Occidental Lodge,
" 22 ... .. 1,000 00
6 50
93 50
100 00
Ophir Lodge,
" 33 .. ...
250 00
San Diego Lodge,
" 35 ..... 250 00

..

1896.]

GTan.d Lodge of California.
A.mount

Name of Lodge.

Subacrlbed.

No. 37 . .... $250 00
St. John's Lodge,
Suisun Lodge,
" 55 ..... 100 00
Union Lodge,
" 58 ..... 250 00
61. .... 1,000 00
Live Oak Lodge,
Natoma Lodge,
" 64 .... . 300 00
Morning Star Lodge,
" 68 ..... 250 00
250 00
96 ... ..
Howard Lodge,
75 00
"104 .....
Lexington Lodge,
"120 ..... 1,000 00
Fidelity Lodge,
.. 129 .•.••
75 00
Nicolaus Lodge,
55 00
"133 .....
Yosemite Lodge,
" 136 ..... 1,000 00
Pacific Lodge,
250 00
"144 .....
Oriental Lodge,
.. 146 .....
320 00
A.bell Lodge,
100 00
" 151. ....
Palmyra. Lodge,
500 00
" 166 .... .
E:x:cel1ior Lodge,
410 00
" 168 .....
San Mateo Lodge,
100 00
"173 .....
Elk Grove Lodge,
50 00
" 174 . ....
Drytown Lodge,
" 188 . .... 1,000 00
Oakland Lodge,
50 00
" 199 ... . .
Hartley Lodge,
250 00
So. San Francisco Lodge, " 212 .••••
250 00
" 215 .....
Oak Grove Lodge,
250 00
Speranza Italiana Lodge, " 219 ..•.•
75 00
.. 221. ....
Inyo Lodge,
100 00
" 228 .....
Athens Lodge,
150 00
"230 . ••••
North Butte Lodge,
57 50
" 233 .•.••
Calistoga Lodge,
200 00
" 246 . ....
Pomona Lodge,
175 00
" 250 .• •• •
A.din Lodge,
100 00
" 253 .••••
Landmark Lodge,
5000
.. 254 .••••
Rea.ding Lodge,
300 00
" 260 ...•.
King Solomon's Lodge,
150 00
" 264 .••••
Hesperian Lodge,
20 00
" 271. ....
Snow Mountain Lodge,
Southern California Lodge, " 278 .•..• 1,000 00
,. 280 .....
100 00
Madera Lodge,
50 00
283 .... .
"
Lodge,
West
South
100 00
" 309 •••••
Delano Lodge,
California Chapter, No. 5, R. A. M .. 1,500 00
300 00
3, R. A. M ..
Sacramento Chapter,
100 00
William T. Lucus • ...... • .•• • •..••••

..
..

..

827

A.mount

Amount

$100 00

$150 00
100 00
250 00
900 00
57 50
125 00
200 00
50 00
500 00
50 00
50 00
500 00
200 00
60 00
50 00
333 30
142 50
50 00
50 00
700 00
50 00
225 00
195 00
250 00
25 00
100 00
150 00
57 50
133 34
75 00
100 00
50 00
200 00
100 00
20 00
1,000 00
100 00
50 00
85 00
1,000 00
300 00
100 00

Paid.

100 00
242 50
125 00
50 00
25 00
500 00
25 00
5 00
500 00
50 00
260 00
50 00
166 70
267 50
50 00

300 00
25 00
55 00
50 00

66 66
100 00

100 00
50 00

15 00
500 00

Due.

Tota.I amount due......... . .... . .. . ...... . ....... . . . .... $17,478 14
Still due and unpaid from William F. Perry •. . . ......•.•.•. .•... $
Respectfully submitted.
L. WA.DRAM,

845 00

&pert Accov.neant.

828

[Oct. 16,

:Proceedings of the

Which was ordered to be filed in the office of the Grand Secretary.
Bro. NATHANIEL GREENE CUB.TIS, from the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following reports :Relative to the centennial observance of memorial services of the dea.th of
W. '• GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Your committee, at the last session of this Grand Lodge, had this matter
under consideration. We then reported tha.t the memory of our deceased
brother wa.s enshrined in the hearts of the American people, a.nd we reverence
his memory with a devotion second only to that of the creature to the Crea.tor.
In our report of laat year we gave the proceedings of the Gra.nd Lodge of
Colorado in reference to this memorial observuce, which will be found in the
printed proceediilgs of our Grand Lodge, on pages 236-7. We believe a proper
observance of the centennial of the dea.th of that great and good Mason is desirable. We therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolution:-

Reaolved, That the Gra.ud Master be requested to appoint a committee of
one, with a.n alternate, whose duty it shall be to correspond with the committee appointed by the Grand Lodge of Colorado to arrange for the memorial
observance of the centennial anniversary of the death of Worshipful GEORGE
WASHINGTON, and that said committee be requested to report at the next
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge a.11 information that they a.re enabled to obtain in reference to the matter, that the Grand Lodge may deter~
mine whether it would be expedient for this Grand Lodge to participate in
said memorial observance.
Bro. R. H. LLOYD presented the following resolution :-

Reaolved, That any working tool of this Order presented to any Grand
Master, to be used by him in officiating at, or assisting in, performing any
ceremony which this Grand Lodge ma.y be invited to perform, shall be deposited with the Gra.nd Treasurer, to be held by the Grand Lodge in commemoration of the event.
Your committee are of the opinion tha.t a testimonial presented to a Grand
Master in recognition of some official public act, like the one in question, is
incidental to the honorable position which he holds, and should be regarded
as a peraonal souvenir of the occasion. Such testimonials, inscribed with the
recipient's name, the date and the occasion of such service, are treasured as
mementoes and are highly prized. They are evidences of the honor a.nd esteem
which you, a.s a Grand Lodge of Ma.sons, ha.ve conferred upon our brethren.
They a.re treasured with commendable pride during the lifetime of the individual, are bequeathed to loved ones when he has passed away, and your committee considers it unfair that the Grand Lodge should thus demand that
these testimonials be surrendered. We recommend that the resolution be not
adopted.
0

1896.J

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

829

Relative to the recognition of the Grand Lodge of New Zealand.
At the annual session of this Grand Lodge of October, 1891, a communication was presented from the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodgl! of New Zealand asking for recognition from our Grand Lodge. At that time the request
was denied, it not appearing that recognition had been gra.nted by either of
the Grand Lodges under whom the constituent Lodges of New Zealand ha.d
heretofore held obedience.
From the documents received by the Grand Secretary and placed before
your committee, it appears that the Grand Lodge of England granted recognition to the Gra.nd Lodge of New Zealand a.ta. special communication called
for that purpose on the twenty-ninth day of July la.st, and the matter of our
recognition of that Grand Lodge has a.gain been submitted to your committee.
From the information furnished us, we are of the opinion that the Gra.nd Lodge
of New Zealand was regularly and legally organized, and is entitled to recognition. We therefore offer the following resolution :Reaolved, That the Gra.nd Lodge of California recognizes the Grand Lodge
of New Zealand a.a a. just and legs.Uy constituted Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Ma.sons, and we extend to the Grand Lodge of New Zealand a fra.·
terna.l welcome to the great family of Grand Lodges, a.nd respectfully ask from
that Grand Body a.n interchange of Representatives.
Relative to the recognition of the Grand Lodge of Victoria.
The Committee on Jurisprudence, at our la.st Annual Communication, reported to this Grand Lodge that they were not in possession of sufficient information in reference to the legality and regularity of the Grand Lodge of Victoria, and requested our Grand Secretary to correspond with the Grand Secretary of that Grand Body asking for further information.
Our Grand ·Secretary reports, as the result of his correspondence with that
Grand Lodge, as follows ;A copy of the above report and recommendation wa.s mailed to V. ·. W. '.
Bro. JoHN BRAIM, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Victoria., on the
twenty-fourth da.y of December la.st, and, although all the information desired
by the committee has not come to hand, from a programme of the proceedings
at the installation of the Grand Officers of that llrand Body, held at Melbourne
on the fourth da.y of May la.at, it appears that Representatives have been exchanged with England, Scotland and Ireland, all the Grand Lodl(es of the Colonies and British America, and also by thirty-six of the Grand Lodges of the
United States of America.. The reque1t for recognition and an exchange of
Representatives has again been referred to the committee.
From the information furnished and the documents submitted to us, we
are of the opinion that the Grand Lodge of Victoria is a regularly and legally .
constituted Grand Lodge. We therefore offer the following resolution :ReBolved, That the Grand Lodge of California recognizes the Grand Lodge
of Victoria. a.a a. just and legally constituted Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons, a.nd we extend to the Grand Lodge of Victoria a fraternal welcome to
the great family of Grand Lodges, and respectfully ask from that Grand Body
an interchange of Representatives.

830

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 16,

The following communication was presented to the Grand Lodge and
referred to us :
GRAND LODGE OF MAINE.
I
PORTLAND, September 4, 1896. f

R. •• W. ·. Nathan W. Spaulding, Repre.11e11tativt of the Grand Lodge of Maine
ne11r the Grand Lodge oj California:DEAR Sm AND BROTHER: At the recent Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Maine, the Committee on Ma.sonic J urieprudence submitted a.
report in relation to rejected ca.ndidatee, which was accepted, and the following
resolutions were adopted, viz :
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge is deepl;y impressed with the neceesity of
uniform legislation by the several Grand Lodges in relation to the admission
of rejected candidates.
Re.11olved, That the effect of a rejection should be limited to five years, and
that during that time the candidate should be allowed to petition only to the
Lodge which rejected him, or to another Lodge with the consent of that Lodge,
or such consent of officers and members of that Lodge ae may be prescribed
by the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction in which the rejection occurs.
Re.11olved, That· each of the Representatives of this Grand Lodge be
requested to present these resolutions to the Grand Lodge to which he is
accredited and request for them fraternal consideration.
·
The Report will be found in the printed Proceedings (pages 43 to 56), a.
copy of which has been forwarded to your address.
•
In accordance with the resolutions, you a.re requested to present them and
the Report, in behalf of the Grand Lodge of Maine, to your Grand Lodge and
request ite fraternal consideration thereof.
Yours fraternally,
STEFHEN BERRY,

Grand Secretary.

We have given the foregoing communication careful and fraternal consideration. We have also read the able report of Bro. J. H. DRUMMOND, Chairman of the Committee of Jurisprudence of Maine, with great pleasure and
satisfaction. It is an able and forcible statement of Masonic law upon the
question involved. We earnestly recommend the perusal of the said report
to every member of the Fraternity in this Jurisdiction, as it contains information 11pon the Masonic law to be found nowhere else within the knowledge of your committee. The Grand Lodge of California, in 1883, made
rejection a bar for one year only, after which the Lodge which has territorial
jurisdiction can receive him. We believe that this regulation is well adapted
to our loca.l condition and has proved satisfactory, therefore we see no reason
why it should be changed.
Relative to the consolidation of Greenvilk Lodge, No. 249, with Sincerity
Lodge, No. 132.
Thie matter was before the your committee la.st year, and we found that
they had not complied with the requirements of the Constitution and the
consolidation wa.e refused. Since that time your committee has been furnished
with parol testimony and an imperfect transcript of the proceedings of the
two bodies. The Master of Greenville Lodge appeared before your committee
and stated that the original transcript had been lost or mislaid. From his
testimony and the testimony of other brethren intere11ted in the consolidation

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

831

we believe they have now substantially complied with the requirements of
the C~nstituti~n, and from all the facts and circumstances of the case, your
co=ttee believe that it would be for the best interests of both Lodges to consolidate. We therefore recommend that the prayer of the petitioners be granted,
and that the two Lodges be permitted to consolidate upon the terms and con·
ditions set forth in their petition.

R. '. W. ·.JACOB HART NEFJ' presented a communication from the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin.
The object of the communication is to bring before the several Grand
Lodges the matter of a uniform system of Masonic relief. This matter was
fully considered and decided upon at the Annual Communication of 1894 see
Proceedings of that year, pages 789-792. Your committee have no~hing
further to olfer, other than their concurrence in the action of the Grand Lodge
at that time.
Relative to Amendments to the Constitution.
The Grand Master uses the following language : I recommend that the Constitution be amended as follows : First. The striking out from Subdivision 10 of Section 1 Article IV,
Part II, the words "once in every two months ; " and
'
Second. The repeal of all of Subdivision 4 of Section 2 Article V
Part IV, relating to the bi-monthly circular from the office of th~ Graud Sec~
retary, for the reasons:• J!'.irst. That in ~891 the Grand Lodge ordered a discontinuance of the pubhca.tion of suspensions for non-payment of dues. Under that ruling, the
Grand Secretar:y ~ldom ~as anything to publish.
·
Second. It is impossible for the Secreta.rifls of the Subordinate Lodges to
keep a complete black-hook, for the manifest reason that a.e the law now
11tands, they c;mn know nothing of the suspensions for non:payment of dnea,
except of their own Lodges.
We approve the propositions of the Grand Master as above set forth and
recommend that the amendments therein specified be adopted.
The Grand Ma.star, in his Address, says : . A? application was received from Bro. RoBERT DAY, Past Master of
Fidel1~y Lodge, N~. 120, bu~ now a re~ident of Paris, for a dispensation to
eata~lie~ an Engli~ speakmg Lodge m the city of Paris, in France. The
application was demed for the reason that to grant it would be a 'riolation of
the law of exclusive jurisdiotion. which is so strenuously enforced bv this
Grand Lodge.
The action of the Grand Ma.eter wa.e eminently correct and therefore ought
to be approved.
Respectfully submitted.
NATHANIEL GREENE CURTIS,}
WILEY JAMES TINNIN,
HIRAM NEWTON RUCKER,
Committee.
WILLIAM JOHNSTON,
JAMBS BAUNTY STEVENS,

832

Proceedings of the

[Oct. 16~

All which were concurred in, and the recommendation s and.
resolutions accompanying them were unanimously adopted.
On motion, the election of Grand Officers was postponed until twoo'clook this afternoon.
Bro. WILLIAM SEWALL WELLS, from the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following reports : To the M. •. W. ·• Grand Lodge of California:

Yoiir committee, to whom wa.s referred the papers and records in the case
of Fresno Lodge, No. 247, against Corinthian Lodge No. 9, relative to the
claims of Freano Lodge for expenses incurred in the burial of a. deceased member of Corinthian Lodge, have ha.d the same under consideration and report as
follows:In July, 1894, Bro. S. C. HUTCHINGS, a. life member of Corinthian Lodge,
dropped dead in tb,e streets of Fresno. His Lodge wa.s notified, and instructed
.l!'rlJ8no Lodge to bnry the body a.t the expense of Corinthian Lodge.
Relatives had requested the shipment of the body East, but for ·this
expense Corinthian Lodge properly refused to become responsible, and the
remains were interred at Fresno.
Th~ bill, a.mounting to $130, was forwarded to Corinthian Lodge, but payment was refused a.t first upon the ground that the deceased had left a.n estate,
and that Fruno Lodge must look to it for payment before sending the bill to
Corinthian Lodge, a.nd in reply to a. communication to the Grand Master,
place their refusal on the ground that their By-Laws provide for the expenditure of but $75.00, and that the bill was unreasonable.
The estate of the deceased was insolvent, of which fa.ct Corinthian Lodge
was duly apprised, and still no payment was ma.de and no inclination shown
by the Lodge to arrive a.t a settlement.
The matter was finally submitted to the Grand Master, and his decision
that Corinthittn Lodge pay $75.00 a.t once, together with a.II the papers,
have been by the Grand Master referred to this committee. Corinthian
Lodge has since pa.id to firlJ8no Lodge the sum of $75.00, the balance of
$55.00 remaining unpaid.
From a. careful exa.minatiau we find that the expenditures were rea.sonable,
moderate a.nd just. The death occurred during the railroad strike and the
delay caused thereby necessitated a.n extra expense, which, under ordinary
conditions, would not have been incurred. Fresno Lodge, with due regard
for the rights of Corinthian Lodge, incurred no expense other than such as
was absolutely necessary.
No instruction wa.s received from Corinthian Lodge to limit the a.mount of
expenses to $75.00, and we find that even if there ha.d been, it could not have
been done in this case.
It is the duty of every Lodge to give to its deceased members decent
burial, and when such is done by a. sister Lodge the expense so incurred should
be at once remitted, and the necessities of the particular case and no By·La.w
of a. Lodge should govern as to the a.mount.

Grand .Lodge of California.

1896.]

833

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption : Reaotved, That Corinthian Lodge, No. 9, immediately pa.y to Fresno Lodge,
No. 247, th~ ~urther sui:n of fifty-five dollars, ha.lance due for expenses
incurred by it 10 the burial of Bro. S. C. HUTCHINGS, a deceased member of"
Corinthian Lodge.
Your committee, to whom was referred the transcript of the trial record
in the case of WILLIAM WYNN REDMAN REEVBS, suspended on November 29th,
1895, by Suisun Lodge, No. 55, have ha.d the same under consideration, and
report a.a follows :The a.c~used was Master of SuiBUn Lodge, and among other charges was
charged with drunkenneBB, with being on two different occasions in such a
state of intoxication that he ma.de of himself a. public exhibition.
The accused was present and entered a. written plea. in which he admitted
'
the mtempera.nce charged, expressed his sorrow a.nd promised reformation.
The proceedings are regular, tbe evidence justifies the findings, and the
judgment tempered with mercy is supported by the record.
The accused a.ppe~ _on th.a ground that the penalty is excessive. His ap·
peal wa.s not ta.ken withm thirty days of the date of the judgment, but even
so the same must be dismissed and disallowed. We therefore offer the follow·
ing resolution '.1-°d recommend its adoption :Ruolved, That the judgment rendered by the Commissioners appointed by
the Grand Master for the trial of WILLIAM Wum REDMAN REEVES Master
of Suilmn Lodge, No. li5, suspending him from all the rights and p'rivileges
of Masonry, be and the same is hereby affirmed and approved a.nd the ap'
peal dismiBBed.
Respectfully submitted.
}
WILLIAM SEWALL WELLS,
WILLIAM THOMAS REYNOLDS,
Commµtee.
FRANK KAVANAUGH LIPPITT,
EDWARD REESE THOMPSON,
JOHN ALLISON BECKWITH,

.

Both which were concurred in, and the resolutions accompanying
them were adopted.
Bro. GEORGE MA.IBs PRBINE, from the Committee on Finance pre'
sented the following reports :To tli.e M.-. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California:Your committee have ha.d under consideration the resolution offered a.t the
last Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge by P .'. G. '. M. '. GEORGE
CLEMENT PERKINS, relative to the reinstatement of Bro. DAVID CONGER
ABllOTl', late a. member of the late Santa Clara Lodge, No. 34, and recominend that the resolution be not adopted.
. Your committee, in accordance with the standing resolution have exa.mmed the securities and counted the money in the hands of the Grand Treas-

18

-834

Procwiings of the

[Oct. 16,

urer, and find the same as reported by him. We have also examined the
books of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Tree.surer, and would state .that
they are kept in a neat and business-like manner, and commend those. ofllc~rs
f the faithful and efficient manner in which they have performed their duties
;:ring the. past year. We have examined the bonds given by the Grand
Tree.surer and the Grand Secretary, and find them correct and approved by
the Grand Master.
Your committee to whom was referred the matter of relief of our venerable Bro. P. G. M. JoHN ASHBY TUTT, recommend the following:R Ired That the sum of four hundred and eighty (480.00) dollars be and
it is eso
hereby' appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, t o b. e pat'd
under the direction of the M. -. W. '. Grand Master to P . G • M. JORN AsHBY
TuTl', in monthly installments of forty (40.00) dollars for the year commencing November 1st, 1896.
Your committee, to whom was re.ferred the claim of Marin Lodge,-No. 191,
for relief furnished Bro. J. E. BALL, recommend that Marin Lodge, ]{o. 191,
be reimbursed, and offer the following :Resolved, That the sum of fifty and 10-100 (50.10) dollars be. appropriated
from the General Fund of the Grand Lodge, in payment to Marin Lodge, No.
191, for the care and maintenance of the la.te brother.
your committee, to whom was referred that portion of ~he report of the
pecial committee on the report of the Grand Lecturer, referrmg to the salary
:.nd compensa.tion to l)e paid to that officer, after careful consideration of the
same submit the following : 1~ view of a probable revision of our Ritual, we deem it inadvisable at this
time to make any change in the sa.la.ry or compensation of the Grand Lecturer.
We therefore recommend that no action be taken in the matter.
Your. committee have had under consideration the salarie~ of the o~cers of
the Grand Lodge, and report the following, and recommend its adoption : $200 00
For sala.ry of Grand Treasurer ....• . •••.. . ....... . .•.. .. · ·
"
" and services in full, of Grand Secretary.... .. • • . . . • · · · · · 3000 00
50 00
of Grand Organist ... . ......... . . · - . . · · · · · · · · · · - · · · · ·
''
Tyler ••••••• ·••.•.. ... ...... .. .• ... ..•... - ••. 100 00
" services of Chairman of Committee on Correspondence .••. · · • • · 250 00
" contingent expenses of Grand Master ............ • .. · · · .. · .. • · 300 00
" salary of Grand Lecturer ......... .. .•.......... · · · ... · · ~ · : · · 500 00
expenses of Grand Lecturer in discharge of hie office, not exceedmg 300 00
50 00
" expert Accountant for Finance Committee . . .•. .. ... . • • • • · · • · ·

Grand Lodge of California.

1896.J

835

Your committee, having coneidered the claim of elective officers of the
Grand Lodge for expenses incurred in attending the present Communication,
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption: -

Resolved, That the following elective Grand Officers be allowed and pa.id
the a.mounts set opposite their respective names, from the General .Fund, for
expenses in attending this Communicatian of the Grand Lodge : -

M.'. W.-. EDWARD MYERS PRESTON, Grand Master ................. $27 75
R ... w.·. WILLIAM THOMAS LUCAS, Deputy Grand Master ........... 18 25
R.'.
THOMAS FLINT, JR., Senior Grand Warden ........... ... .. 10 00
Respectfully submitted.

w.-.

JACOB HART NEFF,
HENRY fuy KNAPP,
CHARLES LBwrs PATTON,
EDWARD SllABP v ALKNTll!B,
GEORGE MAIRS PBRINE,

1

OommiUee.

All whioh reports were concurred in, and the resolutions and recommendations accompanying them were adopt.ad.
Bro. BYRON BALL, from the Committee on Returns, present.ad the
following report :To the M. ·. W. -. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia : -

Your committee, to whom was referred the examination of the returns of the
Lodges for the cnrrent year, have, with the assistance of the Grand Secretary, per·
Cormed that du~y, and take plea.sure in reporting that the returns of all the Lodges
have been received by that officer; that a majority of them were prepared correctly;
that those which were in the first instance erroneous have since been corrected by the
Secretaries, upon notice thereof (in some cases more than once repeated) by the
Grand Secretary; that the dues have, iu nearly every instance, accompanied the
reports; and that all the dues have now been paid.
The classification which follows will show the respective credits doe to the Beere-·
tl\ries of the several Lodges :The reports of the following one hundred and ninety Lodges were ~raosmitted
within the period of time prescribed by the Constitution; were accompanied by the
dues; were iu all respects correct; and were handaomely prepared :California,
Western SW.r,
2'\!hama,
Benicia,
j\wlumne,
Corinthian,
Ban Jose,
Yount,
fimple,
Parfaite Union,
Wa.1hington,

Occidental,
JCadison,
El Dorado,

No. 1, Trinily,
2, Golden (}are,
3, <kldHiU,
5, San I>lego,
8, Saint John's,
9, Santa Oro.z,
10, Yuba,
12, Saoramento,
14, Martinez,
17, Loa Angeles,
" 20, Hiram,
" 22, Mount Moriah,
" 28, Crescent City,
26, Tezas,

....
....
..

No. 27,
" 30,
32,
" 35,
97,
38,

....

.... <11,<10,
" 39,

....

<12,
<13,

"., 44,
'5,

" <16,

....
....
....
..

Mfohigan Oily,
No. <17,
50,
Forbeatoton,
lllinoiltown,
51,
Suisun,
66,
Volcano,
56,
Union,
" 58,
Li'lle Oak,
61,
62,
Geo. Washington,
Natoma,
64,
Amador,
65,
66,
ForeBt,
68,
M<>rning Star,
Enterprise,
" 70,
Petaluma,
" 77,

..

Proceedt1ru1s ~f the

836

[Oct. 16,
No. 253,

No. 182, Landmark,
No. 78, Meridian,
OaZaneras,
.. 254,
" 183, Reading,
HumbolA/,,
" 79, Clear Lake,
.. 255,
Welcome,
..
186,
.Ellentng
Ione,
" 80, Oakland,Star,
.. 256,
.. 188, Lodi,
81,
Yolo,
·~ 259,
.. 190, Evergreen,
84, Northern Light,
Vesper,
•. 260,
.. 191, KJ.ng Solomon'••
Marin,
87,
Naval,
.. 261,
7\Uean,
..
192,
Santa
Barbara,
91,
North Star,
.. 262,
.. 194, Lompoc,
92, Mountain View,
Aoacia,
.. 264,
" 195, Hesperian,
95, Buckeye,
Henry Olay,
.. 265,
Orland,
"
196,
San
Simeon,
96,
Howard,
.. 267,
.. 198, GaU,
Wilmington,
97,
Jefferson,
.. 271,
.. 199, Snt>'ID Mount<tin,
98, Hartl,ey,
Homitos,
u ns,
Anrhor,
..
202,
.. 100, Pentalpha,
()ampo Seco,
" 274:,
.. 203, Arroyo,
Oortf!dence,
101,
Olay,
.. 275,
.. 204, Oakdale,
.. 102, Salina•,
Manzanita,
.. 277,
•• 205, Selma,
..
103,
N8tl1'0ille,
Oroville,
.. 278,
.. 207, So. Oalifornia,
,, 106, Anaheim,
Arcata.
.. 279,
.. 209, Hanford,
.. 108, King David'•,
Owen,
.. 283,
.. 210, South West,
,Fri.endBhip,
..
110,
Pajaro,
u 284,
.. 212, 1)/rian,
Bo.
Sanl!'ranciBoo,
..
111,
Ohico,
.. 286,
.. 112, Ban Buena11entu1·a, " 214, Paso RobleR,
Summit,
. .. 2117,
Winnedumah,
"
215,
.. 117, Oak Grove,
Oonoord,
" 2R8,
.. 216, MazweU,
.. 119, Dorio,
Clinton,
"290,
.. 217, Su'fl.Bet,
Monterey,
"
120,
Fidelity,
"
291,
Santa
Paula,
..
219,
Speranza
llaltana,
.. 121,
lonio,
" 292,
.. 220, Loa Gatoa,
.. 122, DotD'fll11J,
Alamo,
" 293,
.. 221, Orange GroTJe,
.. 123, Inyo,
Sotoyome,
.. 294,
.. 222, Traver,
Granlle,
..
127,
Hermann,
.. 295,
.. 224, Mount, Jackaon,
.. 128, Baker~'Zd,
VU1alia,
.. 296,
Silver
..
225,
Gate,
.. 129, Brooklyn,
N'wolaus,
.. 297,
" 226, .Dunsmuir,
.. 135, Haywards,
Valley,
.. 299,
.. 228, Liberl.y,
..
136,
Athens,
Pacific,
.. 301,
Ontario,
"
229,
Solano,
..
139,
OrockeU,
.. 303,
.. 230, P0rtervil18,
,, 140, North Bulle,
Ourtia,
.. 305,
.M:usa,
..
231,
"lU, Oooelo,
Gr<ifton,
.. 309,
.. 233, Delano,
.. 143, Galiatoga,
JiTankl·in,
.. 311,
.. 235, Hueneme,
Surprise
VaUey,
..
144,
Qriental,
.. 312,
Ldi
Banos,
"
236,
Hi.UBFerry,
" 1'7,
Eel RiTJer,
.. 315,
Norwalk,
"
237,
Guadalupe,
"U9,
La1sen,
.. 316
.. 240, Banger,
.. 150, Oolusa,
Molino,
" 317,
.. 241, Faflbrook,
Santa
Ana,
u
161,
Palmyra,
.. 319,
.. 2'3, HoUenbeck,
.. 156, Eu.oalypt!.1.3,
Woodland,
.~ 320,
••
244,
SouO•
Gate,
Alcatraz,
" 158,
GibaonviUe,
.. 321,
..
245,
Ali.Bal,
.. 161, Laurel,
Keystone.
.. 322,
" 246, Alhambra,
.. 164, Pomona,
Harmony,
.. 324,
Corona,
"
248,
AUuras,
..
169,
Minion,
.. 325,
" 249, Consuelo,
.. 178, Greenvil/.e,
Elk Grone,
U. D.,
Needles,
..
250,
A
din,
.. 179,
Mendocino,
U.D.,
.. 252, Long Beach,
" 180, Bodie,
Arcturae,
.. 181,
.Russian River,
f th following seven Lodges were transmitted within the proper
The reports o
e
d
U
time ; were acc-omp a nied by the dues·• were in all respects correct; an were toe

....
......
....

..

.

prepared1-

Grand Lodge of OaUjorni.a.

1896.J

..

..

837

(}ravel Range,
No. 59, Penrhyn,
No. 258, Mokelumne Hill., No. 298,
93, .Elainore,
St. Helena,
289, Me>nrovia,
" 308•
.. 232,
J ane:roille,
The reports of the following forty·six Lodges were transmitted within the
proper time, and were accompanied by the dues; but each required corrections,
which were duly made by the Secretaries upon being notified (sometimes more than
onoe) by the Grand Secretary:NflfJIVla,
No. 13, Yoaemite,
No. 133, Ban Benito,
No. 211,
Mountatn Shade,
18, VacaniUe,
.. 134, Mosaic,
.. 218,
Ban Joaquin,
19, Abeu,
.. 14.6, Hope,
.. 234,
Mariposa,
24, Pilot Hill,
.. 160, Magnolia,
.. 242,
(Jeorgeloum,
25, &celsior,
.. 166, F're11110,
.. 247,
Santa Rosa,
Alameda,
.. 167, North E!lBt,
.. 266,
,, 57,
Bear Mountatn,
76, Ban Mateo,
" 168, Oli'Ve Branch,
" 269,
Riaing Star,
88, Dryto11m,
.. 174., Pasadena,
.. 272,
88, Phamiz,
Quitman,
.. 178, OalZayom«,
.. 2~2.
.. 104, Sierra Yalley,
J.n,t71!Jton,
.. 184, Redlands,
.. 300,
.. 113, Claiborne,
.. 185, Santa Lucia,
Eden,
.. 302,
.. 114, Keith,
Mount Zfon,
.. 187, Reedley,
.. 304,
.. 124', Truckee,
Table Mountain,
u 200,
Ashlar,
.. 806,
.. 126, 8i/11ey11ille,
La Payette,
.. 201, Suaon,
.. 810,
.. 131, Rw Vista,
Woodbridge,
" 208, Emmanuel,
" 318,
.. 132,
Sinceruy,
The reporis of the following eleven Lodges were correct, and were accompanied by the dues, but were not transmitted within the proper time:JJ}ureka,
No. 16, .Antiooh,
No. 175, Madera,
No. 280,
33, StanialalU,
Ophir,
206, Mount 8ha8la,
.. 281,
60, Contra Ooeta,
Plumas,
227, Temeeoal,
.. 814..
La (}range,
99, Durant,
268,
The reports of the following eight Lodges were accompanied by the dues, but
were not transmitted within the proper time, and required corrections, which have
1ince been made :Hawaiian,
No. 21, Ferndale,
No. 193, Tehachapi,
No. 313,
Roae's Bar,
89, San Miguel,
" 285, Whittier,
·" 323•
YttruTJius,
"U5, Santa .Monica,
307,
The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of the Jurisdiction were
Indebted, and which have all been paid, are as follows:-.

.

..

..

....

......

..

..

..

Gen.

..

Rep•

Name and No. Fnnd. Fnnd. Total.
Ollifvrnia,
1, UOl 00 UR 00 $519
Weiitern Star,
2,
45 75 13 25 59
Ahama,
3, 101 25 28 75 130
Benicia,
5, 39 l 0 11 00 50
fvolumne,
8, 92 50 27 50 120

Gen.

Rep.

Name and No. Fund. Fnnd. Total.
Waahington,
20, $ 6S 75 $18 25 $ 82
21, 162 25 ·-162,t
Hawaiian,
22, 243 50 55 50 299
Occidental,
23, 115 50 32 50 148
Madiaon,

24, 30 75 8 25 39
Maripo~a.
9, 79 00 22 00 101 <Jeorgetown,
25, 64. 25 13 75 78
San Jose,
10, 155 00 49 00 204 El Dorado,
26, 4100 11 00 52
Yount,
12,
Trinity,
79 75 23 25 103
27, Gl 50 16 50 78
Nevada,
13, 116 00 32 00 HS (}{)Iden Gate,
30, 176 50 46 50 222
hple,
14, 30 75 10 25 41 (}{)ld Kill,
32, 4.7 25 10 75 58
.l\ireka,
16, 37 50 11 50 49 Ophir,
33, 38 50 10 50 411
fa.rlaite Union, 17, 96 75 26 25 128 San Diego,
35, 173 50 46 50 220
Jrount"n Shade, 18, 27 00 9 00 36 Saint John's, 37, 53 00 16 00 69
In, lfl, 73 75 24 25 98 Santa Gruz,
38, 105 00 30 00 185
~~.;:"..!."! !~':,".;eg0;,th~~~~N~~~·/e~'.d no dues to the Representative Fund
~nthian,

Procoodings of the

838

~.
Rep.
Name and No. Fnnd. Fund.

Total.

[Oct. 16,

~.
Rep.
Name and No. Fund. Fund.

~.
Rep.
Name and No. Fund. Fund.

Total.

111, $79 50 $24 50 $104
$77 00 $23 00 $100 Ohico,
131 25 37 75 169 Summit,
112, 26 25 6 75 33
113, 70 oo is oo 88
105 50 19 50 125 Eden,
Mount. Zion, 114, 12 50 2 50 15
165 50 42 50 208
117, 84 00 21 00 105
23 00 7 00 so Ocmcord,
Clint.on,
119, 18 00 5 00 23
193 50 54 50 248
120, 228 00 63 00 291
36 75 8 25 45 J!'idel:Uy,
Ionic,
121, 19 50 6 50 26
Tezas,
46, 2100 700 28
Michigan Oity, 47, 18 00 6 00 2( Alamo,
122, 44 00 11 00 55
123, 77 25 18 75 96
Forbettown ,
50, 35 00 10 00 Mi Sotoymne,
lllinoiBtown ,
51, 26 25 7 75 34 TableMountain,124, 57 00 14 00 71
La Fayette,
126, 74 50 16 50 91
Suisun,
55, 76 25 17 75 94
127, 108 50 29 50 138
Volcano,
56, 17 50 4 50 22 Hermann,
Visalia,
128, 91 00 24 00 115
Santa Rosa,
57, 16S 25 47 75 211
129, 59 25 16 75 76
Union,
58, 128 75 38 25 167 Nicolaus,
Gra'Vel Range, 59, 2600 800 S4 Woodbridge, 131, 60 25 15 75 76
132, 17 00 · 5 00 22
Plumas,
60, 16 75 5 25 22 8incerity,
Yosemite,
133, 39 75 5 25 45
Li'Ve Oak,
61, S(l5 00 65 00 370
Vaca'Ville,
134, 68 25 16. 75 8ii
Geo. Washing'n, 62, 23 50 4 50 28
Valley,
135, 21 75 7 25 29
Natoma,
64, SQ 00 10 00 40
Pacific,
136, 316 25 90 75 407
Amador,
65, 42 50 12 50 55
Crockett,
139, 158 25 35 75 194
Forest,
46
66, 35 25 10 75
140, 46 75 10 25 57
Moming Star, 68, 119 75 34 25 154 Ourti.B,
Grafton,
141, 18 00 6 00 24
J!JnJerpri8e'
70' 97 00 28 00 125
143, 37 75 11 25 49
Bear Mountain, 76, 50 75 11 25 6'.l Franklin,
144, 164 25 45 75 210
Petaluma,
77, 79 50 16 50 96 Orier.tal,
Vitru'Vius,
1411, 28 50 8 50 37
Oala'Veras,
78, 52 00 9 00 61
Abell,
146, 108 50 29 50 1S3
Humboldt,
79, U3 75 42 25 186
147, 78 00 18 ·00 96
Ione,
80, 48 75 12 25 61 Eel Riuer,
Lassen,
Yolo,
149, 47 25 13 75 61
81, IS 50 4 50 18
150, 42 75 12 25 55
Rising star,
83, 56 00 10 00 66 · Molino,
Palmyra,
Vesper,
151, 82 50 20 50 lOS
84, 51! 50 18 50 77
Woodland,
156, 65 25 18 75 84'
NatJal.,
87, 122 25 32 75 155
158, 30 50 9 50 40
Quitman,
88, 38 50 9 50 48 (}&1Json'Ville,
160,
9 00 3 00 12
Rose's Bar,
89, 10 50 3 50 Ii Pilot Kill,
Keystone,
161, 21 75 7 25 29
North Star,
91, 32 75 9 25 42
Harmony,
164, 16 50 5 50 22
Acacia,
92, 15 75 5 25 21
166, 180 75 54 25 235
Saint Helena,
70 .Euelsior,
93, 54 25 15 75
167, 63 75 19 25 88
Henry Olay,
95, 49 75 15 25 66 Alameda,
168, 62 00 17 00 79
Hoioard,
96, 48 00 16 00 64. San Mateo,
169, 354 00 80 QO 434
Jefferson,
97, 23 25 6 75 30 Mission,
173, 32 75 9 25 42
Bomitos,
98, 12 75 4 25 17 Elk Gr<•lle,
17', 14 00 4 00 18
La Grange,
99, 61 50 18 50 80 l>rytOIDl'I,
175, 32 75 9 25 42
Campo Beoo, 100, 14 25 4 75 19 Ant.ioch,
178, 112 50 28 50 HI
O"lay,
101, 58 00 18 00 76 Phamiz,
179, 51 00 16 00 67
Man::anita,
102, 32 50 10 50 '3 Mendocino,
180, 95 25 25 75 121
Orouflle,
103, 55 50 17 50 78 Arcturus,
.Lntngton,
104, 49 25 7 75 57 Russian Bluer, 181, 38 25 9 75 48
182, 37 75 10 25 48
Arcata,
106, 57 00 18 00 76 Meridian,
·183, 20 2.5 6 75 27
Qwen,
108, 13 50 4 50 18 Olear Lake,
Pajaro,
110, 73 50 20 50 9' Sierra Valley, 184, 31 00 7 00 38

Yuba,
39,
Sacramento ,
40,
Martinez,
41,
Los Ar.geles,
42,
Biram,
43,
Mount Moriah, 44,
Crescent Oily, 46,

Grand Lodge of California.

1896.J

Total.

Claiborne,
186, $39 00 f9 00 $48
Evening Star, 186, 3050 850 39
Keith,
187, 89 75 17 25 107
Oakland,
188, 242 00 69 00 311
]{orthernLi ght, 190, 41 50 12 50 54
Marin,
·
191, 64 00 16 00 79
Santa Barbara,19 2, 60 25 18 75 79

Ferndale,

193,

67 50 17 50 85
35 00 10 00 45
31 50 10 60 42
2600 700 33
72 00 13 00 85
72 00 15 00 87
61 50 18 50 80
Sil!ley'flille'
201, 47 00 H 00 61
Pentalpha,
202 , 293 75 83 25 377
()onjidence,
203, 19 75 5 25 25
Salinaa,
204, 70 25 21 75 92
Newuille,
206,
37 75 12 25 50
Stanislaus,
206, 43 50 IS 50 5i
Anaheim,
207,
27 25 6 75 34
Rio V'ista,
208, 41 75 8 26 50
King Da'Vid.'8, 209, 79 50 23 nO 103
Friendship,
210, 138 75 40 26 179
San Benito,
211, 63 25 17 75 81
So. San Fran., 212, 93 50 25 50 119
Buenav't'a, 214, 92 25 21 7.5 114
Oak GrotJe, . 215, 158 25 42 75 201
J)oric,
216, 178 60 47 50 226
MOflterey,
217,
64 50 14 50 79
Mosaic,
218, 49 75 11 25 61
Speranzait'na, 219. 83 75 22 25 106
Dotoney,
220,
37 50 11 50 49
Inyo,
221, 29 50 9 50 39
Granite,
222,
28 00 9 00 37
Bakersfield,
224, 57 00 14 00 71
Brooklyn,
225, 90 50 24 50 115
Hayward,
226,
25 50 8 50 34
Contra Costa, 227, 19 50 6 50 26
Athens,
228, 27 75 8 25 36
Solano,
229,
58 00 17 00 75
North Butte, 230, 37 50 11 50 49
Oo'Velo,
231,
25 60 7 50 83
JaneBVille,
232, 27 50 8 50 36
Oalistoqa,
233, 36 75 11 25 48
Hope,
234, 49 25 10 75 60
Surprise Valley ,235, 20 25 6 75 27
Hill's Ferry, 236, 37 50 11 60 49
<Juadalupe,
237, 15 75 5 2ii
21
Oolusa,
240, 82 25 16 75 98
Sama .dna,
241, 123 50 29 50 153

J(ountain View ,194,
Buckeye,
195,
San Simeon, 196,
Wilmington,
198,
Hartley,
199,
7h1ckee,
200,

s.

~.
Rep.
Name and No. Fund. Fund.

Magnolia,
F.!uoalyptus,
Alcatraz,
Laur6l,

839
Total.

242, $39 75 $13 25 $53
243, 39 00 12 00 51
244, 92 2ii 24 75 117
246, 56 00 15 00 71
Pomona,
246, 99 75 24 25 124
Fresno,
247, 129 75 33 25 163
Alturaa,
248, 15 75 5 25 21
Greenville,
249, 11 25 3 75 15
.ddin,
250, 23 25 7 76 31
Bodi6,
252, 31 75 9 25 41
Landmark,
253, 22 50 7 50 30
Reading,
254, 42 75 13 25 56
Welcome,
255, S9 25 11 75 51
Lodi,
256, S9 75 9 25 4\l
Penrhyn,
258, 36 00 7 00 43
Jj)oergreen,
259, lSI 75 33 25 165
K'ingS.Jlomon's,260, 232 75 58 25 291
Tusoan,
261,
24 50 7 50 32
Lompoo,
262, 38 50 10 50 49
HeBperian,
264, 58 50 15 60 74
Orland,
265, 32 75 8 25 41
North East,
266, 24 00 8 00 32
Ga'lt,
267, 19 50 6 50 26
Durant,
268, 100 25 2'.l 75 123
Oli'Ve Branch, 269, 103 50 24 50 128
SnowMount ain,271, 17 25 5 75 2.3
Pasadetlll,
272, 144 00 35 00 179
.Anchor,
27S, « 75 9 25 54
.A,.,.oyo,
274, 31 50 7 50 39
Oakdale,
275, n 50 10 50 52
Selma,
277, 51 50 14 50 66
S'n Oalifomia, 278, 322 00 75 00 897
Bar.ford,
279, 65 00 16 00 71
Mad.era.,
280, « 25 10 75 55
Mount Shasta, 281, 25 50 7 no 33
Oallayomi,
282 , 21 25 5 75 27
South West,
283, 61 25 11 75 73
'.I'yrlan,
284, 18 00 6 00 24
San Miguel,
285, 28 50 7 60 36
Paso Robles, 286, 88 25 10 75 49
Winneduma h, 287, 18 75 6 25 25
MaXtaeU,
288, 18 75 4 25 23
Elsinore,
289, 12 00 4 00 16
Sunset,
290, 61 00 18 00 79
Sant.a Paula, 291, 63 00 16 06 78
Los Gatos,
292, 54 ()(l 16 ()!) 70
Orange Grcroe, 293, 19 25 4 75 24
Trauer,
294, · 15 25 4 75 20
MountJacks on, 295, 53 60 11 50 65
Siluer Gate,
296, 87 76 21 25 109
Jr.msmuir,
297, 13 50 4 50 18

Proceedings of the

840

Gen. Rep.
Total.
Name and No. Fund, Fund.
$30
50
$6
50
$23
ll,298,
MokelumneHi

299,
Lwert y,
300,
Redlan ds,
301,
Ontario,
[Jania Lucia, 302,
303,
PorterDiUe,
304,
Reedley,
305,
Arusa ,
306,
.Ashlar,
Santa Monica, 307,
308,
Monro1'ia,
309,
Delano,
310,
Sisson,
311,
Hueneme,
312,
Los Banos,

48 00 11 00 59
79 25 22 75 102
53 25 15 75 69
27 75 7 25 35
46 25 12 75 59
22 50 6 50 29
48 75 10 25 69
85 75 8 25 44
48 50 13 50 62
66 00 13 00 79
26 50 5 50 32
35 00 7 00 42
60 75 8 25 69
33 75 7 25 41

[Oct. 16,

Gen. Rep.
Name and No. Fund. ·Fund.

Total.

313, $ 21 75 $ 4 25 i 26
Tehaohapi,
314, 21 25 5 75 27
Temescal,
315, 37 75 8 25 46
Norwalk,
316, 32 25 7 75 40
Sanger,
317, 23 25 4 75 28
Falibrook,
318, 19 50 5 50 25
Emma nuel,
319, 140 75 28 25 169
Hollenbeck,
820, 176 75 35 25 212
South Gate,
321, 27 75 5 25 33
Aliral,
322, 19 50 6 50 26
.Alhambra,
323, 32 25 6 75 39
WhiUier,
324, 72 00 20 00 92
Corona,
325, 28 60. 7 50 36
Ocmsuelo,
U. D., 33 75 7 25 41
Needles,
Loog Beaoh, U. D..:___:7~8~~
$4,517 25 $21,727 25

00
Making the total amounts of dues ....... .... $17,210
Grand Secretary .and
the
by
your committee, from information furnished
d improvement
marke
dly
decide
a
find
ent,
statem
from the foregoing tabula ted
and the con?es,
Lodge
inate
in the numb er of degrees conferred by the subord
t annua l mlarges
the
being
year
past
the
uent gain in membership during
Lodge has
Grand
~he
made,
:rease for many years. And, from the showing
the Craft
of
ion
condit
ing
flatter
the
upon
itself
e
every reason to congratulat
.
in this jurisdiction.
Secretan~s ?f
~d
e
M~ter
the
upon
urge
again
But your committee would
rdmg their return s within
hordinate Lodges the great importance of forwa
. To discharge faith·
itution
Const
the
by
ed
requir
as
:~e time prescribed, and
especial care of those
and
p~~e
fully and well every such trust ought to he the.
.
.
y.
s1b1lit
reepon
the
ing
who accept the positions ~nvolv
rs
Maste
upon
B
1mpreB
to
vored
Year after year your committee has endea
their Secre·
of
that
than
more,
not
if
much,
as
duty
their
of Lodges that it is
are not only correc t as to
tariee to see that the return s to which they certify
properly attest ed with the
are
they
that
but
ned,
contai
the matte r therei n
by the prope r dues wh~n
panied
seal of the Lodge, and that they are accom
ently trust that a.gam
confid
we
And
ary.
Secret
Grand
forwarded to the
whom the trust is rein
those
t
calling attent ion to this matte r may promp
r~e in the past, to devote
diecha
its
in
s
carele8
been
have
posed, and who may
.
trust m the future.
more painst aking effort in the discharge of this
tary and hie
Secre
Grand
the
iment
compl
to
ained
constr
feel
In closing, we
their duties ha.Ye been perable assista nt upon the efficient manner in which
ance which has rendered
&88ist
ous
courte
for
them
thank
ally
especi
formed, and
our labors light and pleasant.
All which is respectfully submi tted by
BYRON BALL,
For the Committee.

Whic h repor t was concu rred in.

Grand £odge of Valifornia.

841

Bro. CH.&.BLES LEWIS PATTON, from the Comm
prese nted ·the following repor t :-

ittee on Finan ce,

1896.J

To the M. ". W. ·. Grand Lodge of Califo rnia:ed the resolution of Bro.
Your Committee on Finanoe, to which was referr
ic Widows' and OrMason
the
of
n
erectio
ANDER SON, providing funds for the
resolution, but bethe
of
ent
sentim
the
with
accord
hearty
in
phans' Home, is
iptions quarte rly.
subscr
their
pay
to
lieve that the Lodge8 could better afford
so as to provid e
ed
amend
be
tion
resolu
the
that
mend
recom
We therefore
ber, 1896,
Novem
of
days
first
the
on
rly
that the subscriptions be paid quarte
amended the reeolu.
so
when
that
and
1897,
t,
Augus
and
May
and Febru ary,
tion be adopted.
Respectfully submi tted.
}
J.ACOB' H.ART NEFJ",
HENRY fuy KNAP P,
Committee.
CHARL l!S LEWIB PATTO N,
EDWA RD SH.A.RP VALEN TINE,
GEORG E MAIRS PERIN E,

so as to read, " the
Bro. ANDEBSON's resolu tion was amended
etc.
ribe,"
subsc
to
red
Lodg es be reque sted, not requi
t of the committee
With this amen dmen t to the resolu tion, the repor
ed.
adopt
ation
mend
recom
the
and
in,
rred
concu
was
o'clock this afterThe Gran d Lodg e was then called off unhll two
noon.

A.F°TERNOON SESSION,

}

Frida y, October 16th, A. L. 5896.

The Gran d Lodg e was called on at two o'cloc
presid ing.

k, the Grand Mast er

Bro. JOHN MARTIN prese nted the following resolu

tion :-

nted by the M.-. W. ••
Resolved, That a. committee of three be appoi
r and Grand Secre tary,
Maste
Grand
·•
W.
M.-.
the
with
Grand Master, to a.ct
tions to Alameda
resolu
le
suitab
t
with power to prepare, engross and presen

842

[Oct. 16,

Proceedings of the

Lodge, No. 167, expressing the thanks of the Grand Lodge for the manner in
which they received and entertained the Craft at the laying of the cornerstone of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home.

Which was adopted, and the Grand Master named Bros. JORN
MARTIN, EDWARD PEABODY and JAMES BAUNTY STEVENS to constitute
such committee.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of OaUfornin..

843

The W:·. CHARLES LEWIS PATTON, of San Francisco, was elected
Junior Grand Warden ;
The V.·. W:-. EDWARD OoLJWAN, of San Francisco, was unanimously re-elected Grand Treasurer ; and

Bro. EDWARD PEABODY presented the following:-

The V.·. W.·. GEORGE JoHNSON1 of San Francisco, was unanimously re-elected Grand Secretary.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren
oj the Grand Lodge of Oalifornici :-

Bro. WILLIAM ABRAHAM DAVIES presented the following preamble
and resolution : -

Y onr committee to audit the bills of this Grand Lodge, have the honor
to submit the following report:The Auditing Committee have met the last Saturday of every month during the past Masonic year, when all bills and vouchers for expenditures of
money outside of the regular appropriations for this Grand Lodge have been
acted upon by your committee. Authority for expenditure and copies of
article8 purchased are presented to the committee in every case, and no bills
are approved until they have paBSed the scrutiny of this committee.
Every courtesy has beeu shown your committee by Bro. GEORGE JOHN·
soN, Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted.
EDWARD PEABODY,

Ohairman.

Which was concurred in.
Bro. WILLLUt: PRESTON JOHNSON presented a statement showing
the expenses of the Grand Lecturer in excess of tl).e amount appropriated.
Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The hour having arrived for the election of the Grand Officers for
the ensuing year, the Grand Master named as tellers Bros. EDWARD
PEABODY, FREDERICK ADAMS and FRANCIS CHUTE WooDBUBY, and the
election proceeded with the following result : -

The Grand Lodge having determined that a revision of the Work and
Ritual of the Jurisdiction is desirable for the purpose of restoring the text to
the work as the same was adopted and made obligatory upon the Lodges in
October, 1864;
Be it Re&olved, That the Committee on Revision appointed at the present
session be and they are hereby directed to ascertain, by such method as they
may de.em most reliable and expedient, the several expressions referred to in
the Address of the Grand Master 11 as at variance with the original authorized
text," to the end that the Work and Ritual of this Jurisdiction may be
restored to the system adopted in 1864 ; and they are hereby authorized to
make the necessary corrections for the accomplishment of that purpose and
to prepare for the exemplification of said revised and corrected work at the
next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
In addition to said corrections said committee will further, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Grand Master in his address and affirmed by
the Grand Lodge, proceed to make the neceBBary changes in the ceremonial
of the second section of the Third Degree, to harmonize said ceremonial and
make it more "in conformity with the work of the principal Grand Jurisdictions east of the Rocky Mountains," and to suggest such changes in phraseology as shall make the revised Ritual "consistent with the traditions upon
which the scenes exemplified are founded."
When adopted and made obligatory upon the Lodges, such revised Ritual
shall be placed in charge of three custodians of the work to be hereafter
appointed by the Grand Master.
W~ich was concurred in, and the resolution accompanying it was

The R.-. W.-. WILLIAM THOMAS Lu~As, of Santa Maria, was elected
Grand Master ;

adopted.

The R.-. W.-. THOMAS FLINT, JB., of San Juan, was unanimously
elected Deputy Grand Master ;

The Grand Lodge was then called oft' until ten o'clock to-morrow
morning.

The R.·. W.·. FRANK MARION .ANGELLOTTI, of San Rafael, was
unanimously elected Senior Grand Warden;

844

[Oct. 17,

Proceeding3 of the

1896.]

Grand Lod.ge of Cal,ifornw.

845

Bro. ORBIN STAPLES HENDEBSON, from the Committe e on Pay of
Members, presented the following report:·

~n ~tand ~odge.

To th11 M." W. •. Grand Lodg11 of California :-

MoBNING SESSION,
l
Saturday, October 17th, .A. L. 5896. f
The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding .
After music by the choir, and prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the
minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and approved .
Bro. GEoBGE MAIRS P&BINE, from the Committe e on Finances, pre·
sei::ted the following report : 'l'o the M. •• W. ·. Gra.nd Lodge of Oalijornia :your committee, to whom was referred the resolution to appropriat e the
sum of one hundred dollars to Grand Lecturer 8LOAN for money expended by
him in excess of the amount appropriat ed by this Grand Lodge at the last
Annual Communic ation, have considered the matter. Your comrnittE;e feel
that it has no right to recommend any expenditur e of the funds of this Grand
Lodge in excess of the amount appropriat ed, said amount being limited to the
sum of three hundred dollars; and therefore report the resolution back without recommend ation.
Respectful ly submitted.

JACOB HART NEJT,

}

CHARLES LEWIS PATTON,
GEORGE MAIRS PERINlli,
EDWARD SHARP VALENTINB,
HENRY HAY KNAPP,
)

Oommittee.

Which report was received and ordered filed, and on motion the
Grand Secretary was authorize d to draw a warrant on the Grand Treas·
urer, favor of Bro. WILLIAM E. SLOAN, for one hundred dollars, the
amount prayed for.
Past Grand Master J ums BAUNTY STEVENS presented the following
resolution :Resolved, That the thanks of this Grand Lodge are hereby tendered to our
retiring Grand Master, M. ·. W. ·- EDWARD MlliYERB PRESTON, for the able,
dignified. and impartial manner in which he has conducted the affairs of this
Grand Lodge during bis term of office, and that in his retirement he carries
with him the best wishes of overy member of this Grand Jul'isdictio n.

Which was unanimou sly adopted by a rising vote.

Your committee, charged with the duty of ascertainin g the coat of transport&.
tion ~or one per:ion from the location of each Lodge in the State to the place of
meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of reportinit such coat of transportat ion
as the sum due t.o the officers or representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as
well as the appomted Grand Officers and Chairmen of Standing Committee s for
their necessary e:lpenditur.e for transportat ion to and from the Grand Lodge, re~rt
that ~hey have carefully discharged that duty, and submit the following statement,
ahowmg the names and numbers of all existing Lodges, the amount of dues paid
by ~ch on account of . the Representa tive Fund. the day of communication on
which each Lodge was represented, if represented at all, and the amount allowed
to each Representa tive, appointed Grand Officer and Chairmen of Standing Committees, as follows :N.mt and Number or Locl&a.

Oa'lifornia,
WeBtern Star,
T11hama,
Benicia,

No.

"

2\Wlumne,

Oorinthian,
Ban Jose,

Yount,

Nf!Oada,

.,

7miple,
Eureka,

,.

Parfail.e Union,
Mountain Shade,
8C1.n Joaquin,
Washington,
Oooidenlal,
Jladi6cm,
Jlariposa,
Georgetoum,

"
"

Golden Gate,
Gold Hill,

Yuba,

J(artinez,
LoB Angeles,
Hiram,
Mount Moriah,

Crescent,

"

Am'' Allowed.

5 00

.... . ••..•
.. _ ... .. .
22 00 ..•. Paid.--·-· " "····-···· 49 oo .• _.Paid . ... _. "
•••.•....•
23 20 .... Paid ...... "
··-·······
82 00.- .. Paid ... - .. "
"···-·- · ...
10 25 ...• Paid ... - .. - - ·-······-11 50 .... Paid . .. _•• let day ......... .
26 25 .•• . Paid .... __ "
······-···
9 00 ... . Paid ...... •• •• ......... .
24 25.- .. Paid ... _.. "
.... ·-····
18 2.5 .•• •Paid . ..... •• '' ... ...... .
55 50 .. . . Paid .. .... "
. ..•.....•
32 50.-- .Paid.---· ·"
·--·-·····
8 25 .... Paid ...... "
.... _,, __ _
13 76.- .. Paid. ·-··· "
. ........ .

2 00
11 40
9 20
2 50

8...... 27· 60;- .. Paid ...... "
9.... _.
10... - -.
12·--· ··
13·--· ··
lL.- ..

16......
17--· ·· 18..... .
19... - ..
20......
22. .....
28 .• ·--·
24·-··-·

27 ......
30......
82_ -• • • •
33 .... -.
36 .. -·-·

16 50 . .. -Paid...... "
45 50 .... Paid..... . "
10 76 ..•.Paid ...... "
10 60 . . _.Pald. .. . .. "
46 50 .... Paid...... •'

37 ... ... 16 00 .... Paid ...... ••

38......
39 .....•
40......
41.. - . . •
42.·-·-·
48.·-···
""·· ·· · 46._ ..•.

$16 20

•' ......... .

26 . ..... 11 00 . .. . Paid ...... ''

Trinity,

ffacramento,

When B.epreten&ed.

3 . .. ... 28 75 ... . Paid ...... ••
6 . .• • •• 11 00 ... Paid.·- ···"

25 •••• _.

El Dorado,

Ophir,
Ban Diego,
Saint John's,
Banta lhn,

Duet t.o Rep. ll'and.

1.. - ... $118 00 .... Paid ...•.. 1st day_._ ....•..
2.... _, 18 25 •••• Paid .••••• " " .. . .... __ ,

'' ... ...... .

-···-·····
...••..••.
. .. .•...•.
. .. -· · ·-· ·
..... ·-··'' ......... .

30 00 ... .Paid.... .• "
......... _
28 OO . . _.Paid ....•.2d day. ·-···-···
37 76 .. - .Paid ...... lat day ......... .
19 50. -.. Paid._ •.•• "
..•• .•••••
42 60 ... .Paid..... . "
.. ..... •.•
7 00 .••. Paid- ..... - - · - · · · ··-··
54 60 .. -.Paid •..••. latday... _....•.
8 20 ..•. Paid ...... - - •..•••...•

3 00
13 70

14 40
25 00
6 00
5 00
13 60
18 5<J
14 00
9 40
27 10
7 80
14 40
4li 00
so 60
6 70
9 20
5 00
2 00

36 00

846
Name &114 Namber or Locfce.

Texas,
Michigan Oity,
Forbest<non,

No.

lUinolBtown,
Suisun,

Volcano,
Sama Rosa,
Union,

(}raTJel Range,
Plumas,

LiTJe Oak,
George Washington, "

Natoma,
Amador,

Forest,
Morning Star,
.Enterpriu,

Bear Mountain,
Petaluma,
OalaTJerllB,
Humboldt,
Yolo,
Rising Star,

J~eraon,

Homitoa,
La Grange,
Oampo Seco,

Olay,
Manzanlla,
Oro'OiUe,

Lexington,
Arcata,
Otoen,

Pajaro,
Ohioo,
Bu.mmit,
Eden,

Mount Zton,
UOOC<wd,
Olinton,
li'idelity.

Ionic,

OQH to Rep. l'und...

Wilen Represented.

~t Allow eel

46 .••••. $ 7 00 ..•. Paid.•.... lat day..........
47... .. .
6 00 .... Paid ...... "
. . . . . ...•.
60...... 10 00 ..•. Paid ...... "
. . . . • •. . . .
61......
7 75 .... Paid ...... "
. . . . • . . • •.
66...... 17 75 .... Paid . ..... "
. . . . . • . ••.
66......
4 60 .•• . Paid...••• "
. .. . ...•..
67 ..•... 47 76 .••• Pald .•...• "
.. • .•. . . • .
6S .•.... SS 25 . •.. Paid . .. . .. "
. • • . • ..• • .
69 . .... . S 00 . .•. Paid .•.... - - ..•••. .. ..
60.... ••
5 25 ..•. Paid ..•...let d11.y ..•••.....
61...... 65 00 . ... Paid..•... "
" ......... .
62..... .
4 60 .... Paid ...... "
..•••. ....
64 .•• ..• 10 00 ..•. Paid.. .. .. " " ......... .
66 . • ••.• 12 60 .... Paid...... "
..•.......
66 ..•... 10 76 ..•. Paid...... - - ... •.... ..
3' 26 .••. Paid. .•.• . let day .•••.. . ...
6S . ... .
...•.•...•
70 ..... . 2S 00 . . .. Paid ...... "
76 ..•.•. 11 25 .... Paid . ... . - - ..•......•
77 . .••.• 16 60 . •• . Paid.•.... let day ... .... . . .
7S . •..•. 9 00 .•.• Paid ...... "
79 ....•• '2 25 ..•. Paid .•. : •• "
•.•• .. ....
so.••.•. 12 25 . .. . Paid ..•..• "
.••.•..•.•
SL .•••. 4 60 •••• Paid.••... "
83 ..... . 10 00 .... Paid ...... - - .... ...•••
84.•• .,. lS 60.... Paid ..•.• . let day ..•..••..
•..•..••..
87 . ••••• 32 76 ..• . Paid ...... "
SS..... .
9 60 ..•. Paid ...... "
... .. .... .
S9......
3 60 ... Paid .•.••. - - .. ....... .
91......
9 26 .... Paid ...... let day .. . •....••
92......
6 25 ..•. Paid ..•.•. "
..... ... . .
93·...... 16 75 .•• . Paid ....•• "
•. ...••...
•.••......
96 .•• ••• 15 26 .••. Paid ...... "
....... .. .
96 . •.•.. 16 00 .•• . Pald ...... "
97 ..•.•• 6 75 .• .. P11.id ... ... - - ........ ..
98 ...••• 4 25 ... . Paid.•.... let day .••..••...
......... .
99 .••••• lS 60 .••• Paid . . ..•. "
100..... .
4 75 ..•. Paid ...... "
101...... 18 00 .••. Paid . . •.•• " ,,
102 ... ... 10 60 .... Paid ..... . "
103 ... ... 17 60 .••. Paid ...... "
104. ..... 7 75 .... Paid.•...• "
106... ... IS 00 .•.. Paid ...... "
......... .
108...... 4 60 . •.. Paid ...... - - .• ...•...•
110..... . 20 60 ...• Paid.•.•.. 1st day ......... .
111...... 24 60 .... Paid ...... "
......... .
112...... 6 75 ..• . Paid ...... "
.. .. ..... .
113...... IS 00 .... Paid ••••.• "
..•••.•.••
114...... 2 60 .•.. Paid •.•••• "
117...... 21 00 .••. Paid .•.... "
119...... 6 00 .••. Pnld .••••. "
120...... 63 00 .... Paid ... .•• "
121......
6 60 .•• . Paid .•.... "

..

lO'TUI,

Vesper,
NavoJ,
Quitman,
Rose's Bar,
North Siar,
Acacia,
Saint, Helena,
Henry Olay,
Howard,

[Oct. 17,

Proceedings of the

..

··········

..

$ 6 70
16 00
17 25
10 10
3 00
16 70
3 00
6 00

20
14 70
6 40
11 oo.

1896.l

Samo aa.4 Nambtr of Lo41e.

Alamo,
8r1'oyome,

Table Moumain,
La Fayette,
Hermann,
Vi.<alia,

Nicolaus,
Woodbridge,

8incerity,
Yosemite,
Vaca'Ville,
Valley,

Paoi"f!c,
Crockett,
()urtis,

5 00
8 90

2 00
12 10
20 00
9 20
5 50
12 00
2 00
17 60

(}rarfllYn,

Franklin,
Oriental,
V°llruTJUis,
Abell,
Eel River,
lABBen,
Molino,
?olmyra,
Woodland,

(JibsonTJille,
Pilot HilJ,
K~stone,

Harmony,
.IDzoelsior,

34 10
16 00
4 10
11 00
30 60

'.Alameda,

s 60

Antioch,

10 00
12 30
15 00
12 20
S5 80
20 00

Plusniz,
Mendocino,

San Mateo,
Jltallion,
Flk f:/rOTJe,

Drytown,

Arcturus,

Bu88ian River,
Meridian ,
Olear Lake,
Sittrra VaU~,

6 60
11 80
10 70
1 00
15 00
6 00
16 ,0

14 10

Grand Lodge of California.

Qaiborn11,

JC'Oen(ng Star,
Keith,
Oalrland,
lforthem hight,
Marin,

Banta Barbara,
.Perndale,
Mountain View,

Duee k> B.ep. 1'0114.

847

Wben Repnaeased.

A.m.•i A.Jtowe4.

No. 122 .•.. .• $11 00 .... Paid..••.. 1st day . .........
123...... lS 75 .•.• Paid . ..... "
. •••. . . . . .
124 ... .. . ' 14 00 . ... Paid ..... . "
. .. .• . • • . .
126...... 16 50 . •• •Paid ..• . •. "
•• . .. • . .••
127... .... 29 60 .... Paid ...... " " .......... .
128. ... . .. 24 00 . . nPaid .. ...... ,, u
129...... 16 75 ..... Paid ...... I I u .......... .
131.... .. 15 75 . .. . Paid .. . . . . " " ... ... ... .
132...... 6 00 .•. . Paid ...... - - ..•..••.•.
IS.3: ..... 5 25 .... Paid ..••.. - - •... •....•
134... .• • 16 76 . • • . Paid ...... - - - . . •. ......
136. ..... 7 25 . ... Paid ..•.. .let day . •.. . ....•
136 . . . . . 90 75 .... Paid ..... . "
........•.
1S9. ..... 36 75 .. . . Paid .• • .. "
.•••.•.• • .
140.. .... 10 26 .... Paid . ..... "
••..••••.•
141.... .. 6 00 . ... Paid ...... '' '' ... ...... .
143...... 11 25 .... Paid.•.... "
.•.•.....•
144... . .. 46 76 .•.. Paid ...... "
•.....••••
146.....
S 60 .•.. Paid ..... . - - .... . .... .
146.... .. 29 60 . •.. Paid . . .... let d11.y ......•...
147.. .. .. IS 00 . ••. Paid ... . .. - - . ... .•••..
149. ..... 13 76 .• • . Paid ...••. let day . ..•......
160.... .. 12 25 . .. . Paid .••••. "
.••.•..•.•
161. .. .. . 20 50 . .. . Paid ... . .. "
••••••••••
166 . . .... 18 76 .... Paid .. ... . - - .... . .•..•
168...... 9 60 . ••• Paid ..... • - - .•.•. .. ..•
160...... 3 00 .. .. Paid ...... - - ••.• •....•
..161.... .. 7 26 . ... Paid ...... let day ...•..•. .•
164. ... .. 6 60 .• . . Paid ...... - - ... .. . ..••
166 . •. ..• 64 25 ..• . Paid ...... let day ••••.•••••
167...... 19 26 .... Paid ...... - - .. ......• .
168 .. ...• 17 00 . ••• Paid . .... . let day .. ....... .
169...... 80 00 . .•. Paid .•••.. "
.• . . ....••
173......
9 25 .... Paid ...•.. "
..•.•.....•
174... ... 4 00 .... Paid .•..•. " " . ...•.... ,
176...... 9 25 .•.. Paid .••••• - - ...•.•....
178 ... . • • 28 60 . . .. Paid . .•.. . lBt day .•.•• •. •..
179. .. ... 16 00 . .•. Paid ... .•. " " . ••••• .'.•.
180 .•. ••• 25 76 .... Paid ..... "
ISL .•... 9 76 .... Paid ...... "
182 . .•. .. 10 26 .... Paid .••••• "
183 ...• .• 6 75 ... . Paid..... . "
...•..•.•.
18'..... . 7 00 .... Paid .•..•• "
..•••..•••
186 ..• ... 9 00 . ... Paid.••... "
.•.•.••.••
1S6 ..••.• S 50 . .• . Paid . •.•.. - - .•.•.•.•••
'' 187.•. . •. 17 26 . • .. Paid ...... let day .. .. • ....•
188 .•••.. 69 00 .... Paid ..•... "
190 .. ... . 12 50 . •. . Paid .•. •.. " " .••.. •.• .•
191. ••••• 16 00 . •.. Paid ..•••. "
192 ...• .• 18 75 ... . Paid .... .• "
"
193 . ....• 17 50 .•. . Paid.... .. "
"
19L .... 10 00 .••. Paid.••••. "

..

"

t 3 oo
4 50
14 60
3 60
14 80
8 40
6 20
38 00
17 00
'10
6 40

6 00
6 80
2 00

9 00

36 60
12 20
9 40

7 '0

I 60
6 60
11 00
3S 00
15 00
2 00
3 PO
s 10
11 00
21 60
16 00
4 40
20
17 20
70
36 00
22 50

2 2Q

[Oct. 17,

Proceedings of the

848

Dues to Rep. Fund.

Name and Number or Lod&e.

When llepreHn ted.

••.•..• t •• t 5 60
No. 195 .•• ••• $10 60 .••• Paid ...... lat day
19 00
.•••• • .•.•
196.. .. .. 7 00 .••. Paid .. • .. • "
36 00
•• •
198... . •• 13 oo ..•. raid .•.•.• " " ..•.•.•
10 00
•.•.• ... ·
16 00 .••. Paid . • .•.• "
199... .
16 60
.•.... ...•
200.. .... 18 liO . •• . Paid .•. • .• "
4 20
•
••.
.
•...•
day
3d
••..
••
Paid
.••.
201.. . ... 14 00
35 00
....
202 . ••••• 83 26 ..•. Paid .• ••• . 1st day .•....
6 00
.••.. . .. •.
203 . •• ••• 6 26 .... Paid ...•. • "
6 50
...... ... .
204 .••••• 21 76 .•.. Paid ...... "
13 90
•
...
·
..
.•.
"
••
:
...
Paid
•...
26
12
20.5 .• ••••
NeUJTJ ille,
206 . . .. . . 13 60 . ••• l'aid . • .••. - - ·...•... •••
Slanis laua,
36 00
. .....
207 •••••• 6 76 . .,. Paid .•..•• 1st day .•..
.Anahe im,
'.! 00
..•.•. "
Paid
•••.
25
8
...•.
.
208
Rw Vista,
"
15 30
"
....
.
Paid
.•••
50
23
..•..
209
King David 's,
2 60
210 .••. .. 40 25 .•.. Paid .•.• .. "
Friend ship,
5 2f)
..•.•.• ..•
.•.• Paid .••••• . "
75
17
.•••••
211
"
,
Bttnito
Ban
•.•.•• •...
"
..••••
Paid
.
..•
60
25
...•
.•
212
"
.Bco,
Bo. Ban Francf
35· 00
..•••• .. •.
•.•. Paid.••••• "
Ban Buena ventur a, " 214. .••••• 21 75
20
.•.•
••••.•
''
•
•••.
.
Paid
.••.
75
42
216 ..•.••
Oak GrC111e,
••
•
••••.
.•
"
.•••..
Paid
.••.
216 .••••• 47. 60
Doric,
6 00
••.•.• .•••
217 .•.••• 14 50 .•• Paid ..•... "
Monterey,
2 50
•.•.•• ..••
"
..
....
Paid
•.•.
25
11
••.•••
218
''
.Mo•aic,
.••
219.•••• 22 25 . .•. Paid .•.•.. - - ..•.•••
Speran za ltalian a, "
35 80
11 60 .•.. Paid .•..•. 1st day .••••• ..•.
.••..•
220
''
J,
Do"""'1
60 20
Paid ...•.. " " •..•.•• • • .
.•..
50
9
••
.
••
221.
"
Inyo,
6 40
.••..• •...
222 .•.••• 9 00 •• •• Paid .... . . "
Grani te,
- - •.•.•• •.•
.••••.
Paid
.•••
00
14
••••••
224
Bakers field,
20
•••.
225 .••••• 24 60 ...• Paid .••••• 1st day .•••.•
Brook lyn,
20
3
••.•
..••••
"
......
.••••. 8 60 ..•. Paid
BaytJJard.,
" 226..••..
6 60.••. Paid. .... - - ...••. ....
227
OOfllra Ooata,
6 50
8 26 . ••• Paid . • • •••1st day .••••• ••••
••••
.•
228
.Athens,
2 00
••.•
.
..
•••
"
.•••••
Paid
...
.
00
17
•••
229 .••
Solano,
20
10
••••••
.•
.•
"
..•.••
Paid
230 .••••. 11 50 •..
North Butte,
. .•••• - - . . ••• ••.••
Paid
.••.
50
7
.••
•
231.
Cb'Delu,
39 60
• .•••
232...... 8 60 .•. • Paid .••••. 1st day .••••
J aneB'DillB,
••
...••••
..••••
Paid
....
25
11
...••.
233
Oallst oga,
10 75 . ••• Paid .•.••• letday •••••. •••.
Hope,
" 234.•••••
47 00
6 75 ..•. Paid .••••. Sd day .•••.• .•.•
.•••••
235
,
Yall6y
se
Surpri
8 00
.••••. 1st day ••. .•• • •••
Paid
••.
.
60
11
.•••••
236
,
HiU's Ferry
17 80
...... ... .
.••••• "
Pald
.•..
25
6
•
.
.•••
237
Guada lupe,
"
10 00
.••••• • • ••
240.••••• 15 75 •.•. Paid .••••. "
Colusa,
37 20
•.
.•....•
•
"
"
.•
.•..
Paid
•••.
241. . ...• 29 50
Santa .Ana,
35 00
Paid ....•• "
••••
25
13
..••••
242
lia,
Magno
70
"
.•.•••
Paid
.•••
00
12
.
..
243
Eucal.yptus,
21)
...•.• "
Paid
•.
•.
75
:U
.
.....
2«
.Aloatraz,
10 00
"
.••••.
Paid
..
.•
00
15
245 ...•••
Laure l,
37 00
246 .••••• 24 25 ..•. Paid •••••• ••
Pomo na,
11 80
...... .. ..
...•• . "
Paid
...
.
25
33
.•••••
247
Fresno,
54 50
.•..••• •••
248 ..••• . 6 25 .• .. Paid . ••• • • "
.AUuras,
38 00
..•.
•...••
"
"
...•.•
Paid
.•••
75
3
•
•••
249 .•
Greenflille,
37 20
.•.•... •••
7 75 . .•. Paid .•..•. "
Adin,
" 260.•..•.
Paid .. . • .. - - ...••.. •••
.•..
26
9
.
.
.•••
252
Bodie,

Bucke ye,
Ban 8imeon,
Wilmin gton,
Hartle y,
Trucke e,
Bi.loey11ille, ·
Ptmla"/pha,
uonfi,deflce,
Salina.s,

..

..

..

Gran d Lodg e of OaUforni.a.

1896.J

lfame aatl Number of Lol!.p.

DuN to Kap. Pa.nd!.

Wbeo Bepreun&ed.

849
A.m•t Allo•ed

No. 253 ....•. S 7 60 .•.. Paid ..•••. let day • • .. • • • •
• •••
254. • • . . • 13 25 .• .. Paid...... 2d day • • . • •
. ...
266.. .... 11 75 •••. Paid .•• •• . let day. .... .
. •. •
256.. .... 9 25 .•• . Paid . ..... " •• ••• .• .
258.. .... 7 00 .•.. Paid . ..... - - . . . ..••.••
.••
259. ..... 33 25 .•• . Paid ...••.let day ..•.•••
260... .. . 58 25 . ••• Paid .••.•. "
•••.
1\ucan,
261.. .... 7 50 .... Paid..•••• " " •••••.
••••
.Lompoa,
262... .. . 10 50 .••• Paid .••••• ~· " .•••• .
Hupm an,
264.. .... 16 50 .• .• Paid .•.••• "
Orland,
266. ..... 8 26 .•• . Paid .•.•• "
••• •••••• .
Nortll. East,
266.. .... 8 00 .••. Paid .••••• "
...••• ...
Galt,
267.. .... 6 50 .••. Paid . •...• "
• ••
Duran t.
268... •• • 22 75 .• •. Paid .• • ••• " " •••..••
.•..
Olive Branc h,
269 . • ••• • 24 50.... Paid .•• ••• - - ••.•.•
•••
Snow .Mountain,
271.. •••• 6 75 ••. Paid .•.•.. - . - ....•••
Pasad ena,
272. . • . • • 35 00.... Paid •••••. let day •••. ...•..
.
Ancho r,
278... ... 9 25 ... . Paid ...... " •• ...... ...
....
.•.•..
"
.
.•...
.Jrroyo ,
Paid
•.
•
.
50
7
;..
••
.
274
.. • .
Oakdale,
276.. .... 10 50 .•. . Paid ..•••• - - •..•••
Belma,
277.•.•.• 14 50 .••• Paid ...... let day .•.. ••..••
.• •• •. . .•.
Bouthern Oalifo rnia," 278. ... .. 75 00 .• . . Paid ...••• "
•••••• . ...
Hanfo rd,
279... ... 16 00.•• . Paid . ••.•. "
... .
Mad.era,
280...... 1075 . ... Paid .... ~." u ......
• •• • . . . • .
.Mount Shasta ,
7 60 .••. Paid. • • . . "
281. • . • •
••••.. •.••
Oallay omi,
282.... . •• 5 75 ••.. Pald ..•••• "
.••••. .•.•
South West,
283. . .... 11 75 .••• Paid . ..••• "
••••.. •.••
2Jirian,
284.. .... 6 00 .•.• Paid .••• • • "
.•..
San .Miguel,
285. .. .•• 7 60 .•• Paid .••••• - - .•••••
•
PaBo Robks ,
286.. .... 10 75 . ••. Paid . •••• •1st day .•• . .•..•
.•..•.• •••
Winne dumah ,
287.. .... 6 25 .••• Paid •••• • • "
••• •
Jlaz11JeU,
288. •• • • • 4 25 .••. Paid ..... " " ••• •••
.•.
••.•.•
••••••
Ellinb re,
Paid
.••.
00
4
•••
289...
.•..
Sunset,
290.. .... 18 00 ..•• Paid ..•... 1~t day ••....
.•...•. •••
Santa Paula ,
291.. .... 15 00 .••• Paid . .••• . "
....•.• ..•
Loa Gatos;
292.. .... 16 00 . . •. Paid .••.•• "
....... ..•
._ Orange Grove,
293.. .... 4 75 •••• Paid ...... "
••.••. .••
:Cra1111r,
294 .••••• 476 ... . Paid . . • . . . "
... :
.Mount Jackso n,
295 . •• ••• 11 50 . ... Paid . ....• - - ..•.•.
.••
Bibler Gate,
296. ..... 21 25 .... Paid . . .. . . let day ...••..
.Dunn nuir,
ll97. . . .. . 4 50 ..• . Pald .•••• • - - •.••. .....
....
Jlokelumne Hill,
298.. .. •• 6 50 .... Paid .••••• let day ... ..
•..•
Ltbmy ,
299 . .•• •• 11 00 . •• . Paid .••••• 2d day •••..•
.•
&dlandB,
300.. .. .. 22 75 .••. Paid ....•• 1st day •.....•
" .•..•• •.•.
Ontario,
301. •..•. 16 75 •• •. Paid •••... "
•••
St111ta Luoia,
302... . .. 7 25 .•. •Paid .• .. .• - - •.•••••
•••
,l'ortenJUZe,
303... ••• 12 75 .••. Paid .• •••. lst day ••••.••
.
Reedley,
304.. .... 6 60 ... . Paid . . ..... . '' ,., ... . . ....
..uuati,
305 .••••• 10 26 .•• . Paid ..•.• • "
.dthlar ,
3Jl6.. .... 8 25 .••• Paid . ••••• "
1
••••
Santa .Monicti,
807.. .... 18 60 .... Paid ..... . • ' ' • • • • • •
"
....•
.
Paid
••
.
.
llfom·ooi11.
00
13
....
308..
Landm ark,
Readin g,
We!come,
Lodi,
Penrh yn,
JJ}oergreen,
King Solom on's,

..

..

..

..

19

$ 5 90

15 oo
16 10
B 90
38 50
8 50
21 go
17 70
10 00
57 00
6 50
20

35 50

36 00
16 90
12 7(1
35 00
111 80
10 50
14 30
8 60
'6 00
7 20
12 40
60 20
9 00
3ii 00
35 00
a 30
37 00
13 30

'-> 00
12 10
2 50
39 10
37 40
17 00
14 30
36 40
38 50
36 ()()
36 00

•

Name and oWDber of Lodge.

Delano,
Si1son,

Huerieme,
Los Banos,
Tehachapi,

Temesoal,
Norwalk,
Sanger,
Fallbrook,

.Emmanuel,
Hol/enbeck,
South GaUi,
.Aliaal,

[Oct. 17,

Procwlings of the

850

Duel w Rep. l!'ond.

When Reprueoted.

No. 309 .... .. $ 6 60 .... Paid ......1st day .. ·······:
310
7 00
Paid ... · · " " · · · · · · · · • ·
· ·•···
. .. p "d
"
..
311...... 8 26 ...
. a1 ..• • •
•••••· ••••
312 .. .. . . 7 25 ....Paid.·····" " · · · · ·· · · · ·
313.. ... . 4 25 •••. Paid .. · · ·· "
· .. · .. · ··
314 ..... , 6 76 ... . Paid . .. · · "
.• ·.. · ... · ·
915...... 8 2S .... Paid ... ···· "
· · · · · ·· · · ·
916 .. .... 7 75 .... Pa~d .... · · :: " · · · · · · · · · ·
317... ... 4 75 .... Paid .. .. · ·
..... ··· ··
318.. .... 6 50 .... Paid . .. .... "
·· · ·· ··· · ·
319. .... . 28 ~6.'. .. Paid . .. ·· "
.. · · · · · · · ·
320 ... : •• 3525 . ... Paid . .... . "
··········

..

..

3!21.. .. . .

5 25 .... Paid ..... . "

·· ···· · · · ·

$16 30
26 30
36 00
10 10
i2 10
39 30
96 00
13 30
45 00
9 40
36 00
35 00
2 30
35 50
35 80
36 50
49 30
61 50
35 50
6 00

322.. .... 6 50 .... Paid .. . ··· ''
·· ···· · · ··
323. .... . 6 75 . .. Paid . ... · ·•
.. • .. · · · · ·
Whittie1-,
Corona,
.. · · · · · · · ·
324 ... .. . 20 00 .•.. Paid ...... "
·7 50 .... Paid ... .. . 1 '
'' • • • • • • • • • •
OonsueZo,
'' 825 · · • • · ·
Needl.ea,
U. D ...•• • 7 2lS . .. . Paid ...... '' '' .. · · · · · · · ·
Loftg BBach,
U · D .• · • · • 8 00 .... Paid . ..... " " · · · · · .. · ·
. .. . Paid for 1895
.... · · · · · ·
Oonjidence,
No. 203 .. •. •
.--;~
Total amount of allowances, .. $8,669 75
Total dues to the·Re p. Fund ,....,..,...
• .
Tbe amounts allowed to the appointed Grand Officers and Chairmen of ~udmg
Committees, entitled to payment from the Representative Fund, are as fo owe:WILLI.A.Iii. EBSKI?IE SLOAN, Grand Lect urer ............. ..... lat
" day
.. . . . . . . • • $46l 50
70
EDWARD Swll"T WKBT, Grand Marshal, .... ·· ... ····•·•·· .. " " " "·" · · ·
6 00
BsNBY CALCUTT Kn:ss, Grand Sword Bearer, .. · .... · · · · · ·
3 00
JEBOllS 'BoNAPABTS RIOHABDSON, Grand Bible Bearer,. ... , ." ,, .. ·· ·•··
6 00
WILLIAll MONBOS PSTBIS, Senior Grand Deacon, .......... :: " . . . .. . . . . 2 50
RALPH LowB, Junior Grand Deacon •. · .. · .. ·· .. · .. """"·
.
U 90
J.ll!llS FBANll'.LIN BsDFOBD, Senior Grand Steward, .. ....... 2d day.· ··· •·
JAllES FBEDSBIOK DllA.KE, Junior Grand Steward ........
-~~t d~Y· ... . . .. 3: ~
ORBIN STAPLES HE!!DRBS01'. Oh'n Com. OD Pay of mem ere.
. ..... . .
.............
.............
...... • 121 10
Total .... · ....... ·· .. • ...... ··"•"
s 569 76
To which add amount to representatives of Lodges, as before· ···· ········ _:__
__
Sbowing total allowance of... . ............. ... ·······• .. ·· ....... $3,690 S5A
517 25
Tbc amount of Representative Fund, as above , for the year .. .. • .. •·:•• ... S4 '826
40
Balance to credit of Representative Fund, 1896....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~711 75
"
1895, 11 er Gr. Treas. Report, u
$1,406 16
As the surplus for 1895 , as has been the custom, was turned into the General
Fund, the real surplus ic the Representative Fund at this time ia $826.40.
Your committee would recommend that the Grand Secretary no~ify the S?°·
retaries of the several subordinate Lodges to be especially careful m ~certs.~~
ing the full and complete fa.re, one way, from the res~ctive towns ID _wh::.
their Lodges are situated, to San Francisco. The committee has _experien~.,
much trouble in adjusting differences occasioned by the Secretanes not ~a:·
ing named the correct amount of fa.re, t~ey having sent the amounts ID ID
many different ways, and on a different basis than asked for.

.Alhambra,

b...

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Galifornia.

851

The surplus for 1896, as shown in the foregoing report, though large, does
not admit of a cha.nee at this time of any material reduction of the levy for
the Representati ve Fund for the ensuing year. But if the balances from year
to year were kept as a separate and distinct fund a reduction could in time be
made.
Your committee therefore offer the followins;: resolutione and recommend
their adoption : Jlllolved, That the surplus which may be shown to be on hand, after allowances shall have been pa.id from the Representati ve Fund, she.11 be kept in a
distinct fund by the Grand Treasurer and applied for no other purpose than
that for which it is collected, and it shall be shown from year to year as an
IOCUillUlated bal&nce to the credit of the Representati ve Fund, so that in time
the surplus thus accumulated may be applied to a reduction of the usual levy
. for that purpose ; also be it further
Resolved, That there ~e levied upon the subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction for the current fiscal year, iu addition to the dues prescribed by the
Constitution , the sum of twenty-five cents for . each member borne upon the
Jfillective rolls at the date of the annual reports. Said levy shall be made for
the account of tlre Representati ve Fund, and shall be paid at the same time
and in the manner prescribed for the payment of the annual dues.
All which is most respectfully submitted.
ORRIN STAPLES HENDEBBON, Chamnan.
Which report was .concurred in, and the accompany ing resolutions
were adopted.
Bro. GEOBGE MAIBS Px1mu:, from the Committee on Finances, pre·
eented the following report : -

To the M.-. W.-. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia: Your committee respectfully recommend that our retiring Grand MasteP, '

Bro. EDWARD MYERS PRESTON, be requested to ait for his portrait, e.nd that
when done the Grand Secretary be instructed to have it suitably framed and

placed with the other portraits of the Grand Masters in · the gallery of the
Grand Lodge ; and that they recemmend that the Grand Secretary be and he
is hereby authorized to procure a Past Grand Master's Jewel (at a cost not to
exceed two hundred dollars) as a testimonial expreBSive of the appreciation
which the Grand Lodge entertains of the courteous and dignified manner our
•teemed Past Grand Master EDWARD MYIIBS PBKSTON baa performed the
duties of his high office, and that the same be presented to him at thia Comaunication.
·
All which is respectfully submitted.
JACOB HART NEll'l',
}
Hll:NRY HAY KNAPP,
CHARLl!S Lxwrs PATrON,
Committee.
EDwA.RD SHARP VALENTINE,
GxoRGE MAIRS P.11:1uN11:,

•
852

P'i'oceedings of the

[Oct. 17,

ously
Which was concur red in, and the recomm endatio ns unanim
adopte d.
of Bro.
The M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master announ ced the appoin tment
Widow s' and
JAMES WRIGHT ANDERSON a Truste e of the Mason ic
Orphan s' Home, vice ~ro. ANGELLOTTI, resigne d.
of Grand
The M. •. W. ·• Grand Master declare d the installa tion
-elect, his
Officers in order ; and, at the reques t of the Grand Master
Secreta ry,
appoin tments for the ensuin g year were read by the Grand
·
as follows : for
..• or San Francisc o;
Grand Chaplain,.•....••• •. Bro. ED.WABD BENTLEY CBUROR, .. ..
.. .. .. Woodland;
.
.
BAKER,
TR
ELLSWOB
FRANOIS
..
..
........
.
.
Orator,.
Grand
.. .. " San Franol.&co;
Grand Lecturer, ..•• . .. . .. " WILLIAX HARV.BY EDWARDS, •.
PorteniilJIJ;
Grand Marshal,.. . .. . .... . . .. JAOOB FRANKLIN BOLLO,.... . ......
• . " Oompton;
Grand Standard Bearer,. .. " OlllRI BuLLis, ....... . .•...... ..
..•. " Anderso n;
Grand Sword Bearer,.. . . • . •' JAlllBS FBANKLIN BEDFORD,.. .
San Francf•c o;
........
..
.
MOSE..~
R
8cHUYLE
WILLIAX
..
......
~
Grand Bible Bearer
Los AngeleB;
"
•.
....
.
••••
.
....
,.
PBAGER
SAMUEL
Senior Grand Deacon, •. . . . . ••
.. " Cambria;
Junior Grand Deacon, . •... " ALBXAl'IDEB PATE1U!ON,. ........
.. . " Mendoc#.no;
Senior Grand Steward, .... " THOMAS JBFFBRSON RloHABDS,.
San ..li)-'ancbco;
.....
..
,
STEWART
QUINCY
LB
GBANVlL
..
.
.
.
,..
Steward
Junior Grand
Fre1no;
"
••.
•.
,.
BABRBTT
WILLI.AM
CHARLES
"
...
.
.
Grand Pursuivant, •. . •
. . . . " S an Fran.oUco;
Grand Organist, ........ . .. " &MU.EL DAVID :MAY.EB,. . .. . ..
" San Francisco.
Grand Tyler, •.. .• .•. . •. .• . . " JAXBS OGLESBY, ........ . . . . .....

several
The Grand Officers were then duly installe d ·in their
N, BSSisted
station s and places by Grand Master EDWAIID MYERS PRESTO
of the
by Past Grand Master WILLIAM ABRAHAM DAVIES as Master
Ceremo nies.
Grand
The M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master then presen ted the retiring
N'S
PRESTO
Master
Grand
Pe.st
Jewel.
Master with a beautif ul gold
eloque nce,
that
by
terized
charac
was
nial
testimo
the
of
nce
accepta
dly noted.
ability and deep Masoni c feeling for which he is so deserve
le and
Bro. EDWARD PEABODY presen ted the followi ng preamb
tion:resolu
To the M. ". W. ·• Grand Lodge of California :Grand Lodge to
Y oar committ.ee, to report a resoluti on of thanks by this
the followin g:
submit
to
leave
beg
M.,
A.
and
F.
Alamed a Lodge, No. 167,
ille, Alamed a
Centrev
of
M.
A.
and
F.
167,
No.
WHERE.AS, Alame.d a Lodge,
a receptio n and
Co., Cal, did, on Wednesd&y, October 14, 1896, tender
at the laying of the
barbecu e to this Grand Lodge and many other Ma.eons
at Decoto1 Cal.; and
corner-s tone of the Masonic Widow s' a.nd Orphan s' Home
Lodge of their
WHEREAS, The many sacrifices by the member s of that
to be ; and
proved
it
~uccees.
great
the
occasion
the
make
to
time and money

1896.]

Grand .Lodf!e of Oaliforui,a.

853

of the many
WHEREAR, This Grand Lodge desires to show its appreci ation.
it
be
;
occasion
that
upon
them
to
kindnes ses shown
hereby ex.
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of California, F. and A. M;, do
F.and .A.. M., of
167,
No.
Lodge,
a
Alamed
to
thanks
an~
e
gratitud
th~ir
press
as a partial
Centre~lle, Cal, ~nd its Worship ful Master, EDWIN WHIPPLE,
l feeling shown b
fraterna
the
ates
appreci
Lodge
Grand
this
that
t1on
TeCOfn1
the corner- eton:
Alamed a Lodge, and that their efforts to make the laying of
always remain
will
that
event
an
Home
'
Orphana
and
'
Widows
Masonic
of the
.
occasion
that
upon
present
was
who
in every Mason 's heart
Respect fully submitt ed.
}
EDWARD PEABODY,
JAMES BAUNTY STEVENS, Committee.

Which was oonour red in, and the resolut ion accomp anying
adopted .
The Grand M~ter announ ced the appoin tment of the
Commi ttees for the ensuin g year, as follows : -

it was

Standi ng

On Jurilfprudence :

On Accounts :

Bro. Nathan iel Greene Curti.8,
" Wiley James Tinnin,
" Hiram Newton Rucker,
" ·William Johnsto n,
" James Baunty Stevens .

Bro. Samuel Henry Perkins ,
" William Filmer,
" Thomas Kyle,
" Henry Bomer,
" Henry Ascroft.

On Finances :

On Grievancu :

Bro. Jacob Hart Neff,
" Edward Sharp Valenti ne,
" Edward Peabody ,
" William Frank Pierce,
" George Maire Perine.

Bro. William Sewall Wells,
" William Thomas Reynold s,
" Edward Reese Thompson,
" Byron Ball,
" Stanley Andrew Smith.

On Correspondence:

On Return& :

Bro. William Abraha m Davies,
" Chaunc ey Carroll Boeh,
" Jamee A Foshay,
" John Nelles Yoong,
" Jamee Lewis Barham ..

Bro. Corneliu s Welle Pendlet on
" Willia1DtHenry Carson, '
" John Walter Boyd,
" Henry A Keller,
" George Thomas McCabe.

On Pay of M~mbera:

Bro. Orrin Staples Henders on,
" John Allison Beckwi th,
" Ritner Dodson,
" Warner Sherma n Winters ,
" Charles Edwin Holliste r.

Proceedings of t~e

854

[Oct. 17,

1896.J

Grand Lod<Je of OaU/ornW..

855

The Grand Secretary reported that the two Lodges to which char·
ters he.d been granted at this Communication would be numbered, and
are located e.s follows :-

STATEMENT

Needles, No. 326. Sa.n Bernardino County;

Of Receipts by the Grand Beoretary, for aocount of the Grand Lodge, during the
quarler-yllar tmding on the 3Isi day of Ootober, .A. L . 5896.

Long Beach, No. 327, Los Angeles County.

..

He also reported that, of the two hundred and sixty-two Lodges
existing in the Jurisdiction at the commencement of this Communication, two hundred e.nd twenty-eight had been rep~esented e.t some time
during its continuance.
The several regular e.nd special committees were then called in
their proper order ; and, · they presenting nothing further and no
other business appearing, after prayer by the Grand Chaple.in and
music by the choir, the Grand Lodge of California we.s closed in

1896.

Aug: 1, Oakdale,
1, MO'Unt Zion,
" 1, I'.eedley,
1, BO'Ulh West,
1, Bi.ncn-ity.
1, Summit,
1, Thhama,
" 1, Mosaic,
1, Petaluma,

..

..
"
"

~mule .fonn.

WILLIAM THOMAS LUCAS,
Grand Maater.

~

GEORGE JOHNSON,
Grand Secretatry.

..
"

....
..
... .. .
..
.. .. .. ..
.. .. . .... ....

..
..

...

..
..
..

.. .. ..
.. .. .. ..
.. .. ..
..
.. ..

..

..

....

....
..

.. ..

..

.. .. .. .... ..
..
..
.. ..
.. ..
... ..

..
..

"

..

.. .... .... ....

..

"

Gen.Fund. Rep.FtlJld.

No. 275, dims in fall to July 31, 1896, $'1 50
$10 50
114, "
12 50
2 50
" "
804, "
"
22 50
" "
6 50
2~3,
61 25 .
"
" " "
11 75
132,
17 00
5 00
"
112,
26 25
6 75
3,
101 25
28 75
" 218,
49 75
11 25
•I
77,
79 50
16 50
l , Pajaro,
73 50
" no,
20 50
" " "
1, SaJ.inas,
204,
70 25
" " "
21 75
1, Pacific.
316 25
" 186,
"
90 75
"
"
1, SilfleyrJil.l.e.
47 00
" 201,
"
uoo
"
1, Los Gatos,
" .292,
64 00
16 00
"
1, Olay,
58 00
" 101,
18 00
"
1, Paao Robles,
286,
38 25
10 75
" "
1, MO'Untain View, . " 194,
35 00
10 00
1, Mount Jackson,
" 295,
53 50
11 50
"
"
1, Hu.eneme,
311,
60 75
8 25
l, Mission,
169,
"
354 00
80 00
"
1, Naf!al,
87,
122 25
82 75
1, Dela'flO,
26 .50
" 309,
5 50
"
1, Hanford,
279,
55 00
16 00
1, Oorona,
324, "
72 ()()
20 00
"
l, Beading,
~54,
42 '15
13 25
"
"
1, Dun1muir,
297,
13 50
4 50
"
1, OaHstoga,
238,
36 75
11 25
1, 7rafler,
294, "
15 25
4 75
I, Liberty,
299,
48 00
" " "
11 00
"
3, Marin,
191,
64 00
16 00
" "
3, Eeergreen,
" 259,
131 75
33 26
S, Ban Buenll'Ventura, " 21',
92 25
21 75
S, l!:lk Gro'fJe,
173,
32 76
"
"
9 26
S, North Bt,ar,
91,
32 75
"
9 25
3, Veaper,
58 GO
" 84,
"
18 50
"
3, Jefferson,
97, " "
23 26
"
6 75
"
3, Nonnalk,
37 75
" Sl5,
" "
8 25
3, J!JuaaJ.yptus,
243,
"
39 00
12 00
8, Banta BarbaFa,
192,
60 25
18 75
"
8, Pomoraa,
" 246,
99 75
24 25
s, ParfaUe ·union, " 17,
96 76
26 25
"
"
3, Solano,
229,
58 00
" " "
17 00
S, Western Star,
46 75
13 25
,, 1802,.•
4, Arcturu,,,
95 25
25 75
"
4, Banta Rosa,
57,
163 25
47 75
'· Oreacenl.,
36 75
8 25

.. .... ..
..
... ..

'°·

856

State:ment of Receipts f<n .Account

1896.

[Oct. 31,

Gen.Fund. Rep.Fund.

Aog. 4, Forbestown,
Nl). 60, does io foll tO July Sl, 1896, $35 00
0
"
4, Onta.rio,
301,
''
''
53 25
•, Temple,
a,
30 76
"
4., Arcata,
" 106,
67 00
'· N"tealatl.B,
" 129, ... "
59 25
4., ~orge Waiihington," 62,
"
23 50
4, Michigan OUy,
'' -i7,
18 00
4, Cbluea,
2ro,
" "
82 25
4, Ionic,
121, " "
19 50
6, F<Jrest,
66,
"
35 25
6, Nor/Jiern LighJ.,
190,
" "
"
41 50
5, Lompoc.
" 262,
"
38 50
6, Santa Paula,
" 291, " · "
" "
63 00
6, Banger,
316, " "
"
32 25
6, Orange <h'oue,
293, " " \•
19 25
6, .Alamo,
" 122, " "
"
44 00
6, Nlmtliile,
205,
37 75
6, Hi.Jl's Ferry,
" 236,
''
37 io
6, Fidelity,
" 120,
" "
228 00
5, Eel Ri.,,m·,
l-i7, " ''
78 oo
5, Washington,
20,
63 75
6, King Solomon's,
260,
232 75
6, Hermann,
127, " " "
"
108 50
5, pentaJ,pha,
202,
" " "
293 75
5, Santa Oruz,
38,
"
105 00
5, Gibson'IJille,
~68,
30 50
6, NaJmn.a,
64:,
" "
30 00
s, Iainoistown,
51,
" "
26 .25
6, Ph<eni:l:,
178,
112 50
''

"

"

6, El Dorado;
6, Woodland,
6, Concord,
6, Oakland,
6, Voloano,
6, .AMhsim,
6, 7U8can,
6, San Simeon,
6, 8urpriae Valley,
6, Inyo,
6, Visalia,
6, Weloome,
6, Sunset,
6, Azu1a,
7, Yolo,
7, Olear IAJGe,
7. Keith,
7, .Jtfartinez,
7, 7Uolumne,
7. Amador,
7, <JraniU,
7' Brooklyn,
7, Clir.ton,

26,

"

"

••
"

"

"
"
"

"
"

156,
117,
188,
56,
207,
261,
196,
235,
221,
128,
255,
290.
305,
81,
183,
187,
41,

•• "
"

"

fl

119,

"

"

"
"

"
" "

"
"

"

"
"
...

"
"

·•
"

"

"

.. ..

" "

8,

65,
•• 222,
225,

"

" "
"

"

"

..

,,

u

,,

..

"

$10 00
15 75
lO 25
18 00
16 75
4. 50
6 00
15 75
6 50
10 75
12 50
10 50
15 00
7 75
4 75
11 00
12 25
11 50
63 00
18 00
18 26
58 25
29 50
88 25
30 00
9 50
10 00
7 75
28 50

4:1 00

11 00

65 25
84 00
242 00
17 50 ·
27 25
24 50
26 00
20 25
29 50
91 00
S9 25
61 00
48 75
18 50
20 25
89 76
105 50

18 75
21 00
' 69 00
4. 60
6 75
7 50
7 00
6 75
9 50
24 oo
11 75
18 00
10 25
4 50
6 75
17 25
19 50
27 50
12 50
9 00
24 60
5 00

9~ 6()

4t 50
28 ()()
90 50
18 00

1896.J

Of the Grand L<Xlge of OoJ,ifornia.

1896.

Aug. 7, .Doric,
7, Oallfornta,
8, Oon{ldence;
8. Laurel, .
8. Oalaueras,
8, J!'riend.•hip,
8, South Gate,

8, Howard,
8, Bodie, ·
" 10, Hesperian,
" 10, Valley,
" 10, Molino,
10, .Adin,
10, OOfJelo,
10, Galt,
" 10, Gold Ki/,l,
" 10, Saini. John's,
,, 10, Otoen,
•• 11, Dorfo,
" 11, OMco,
" 11, Sierra Valley,
" 11, Yount,
11, Winnedumah,
11. Alisa!,
" 11, Rmrian.RitJer,
" 11, Enterprise,
" 11, Buckeye,
" 11, Snow Mountain,
" 11, Hollenbeck,
11, Liue Oak,
" 11, Bakertifld,d,

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

857

Gen.Fund. Rep.Pond.

No. 216, dues io fnll to Joly 31, 1896, $178 50
1,
401 ()()
203,
"
..
19 76
2'5,
" u
56 00
78,
" ,,
62 00
210, " ..
"
138 76
320,
,,
176 75
,, 96.
48 00
252,
31 75
264.,
136,

..

58 50

21 75
150,
42 75
•• 250,
23 25
.. 2Sl.
" ••
25 60
,, 267, ,,
19 50
" "
82, " ,,
47 25
37, ,, ,,
53 00
18 50
108, " " " " "
216, for speci&l disp. to re-b&llot, 10 ()()
111, dues in foll to Joly 31, 1896,
79 50
184,
SI 00
12, ,, u
79 75
287, ., "
IS 75
"
821,
27 75
181, ,, u
38 26
70, " ,,
97 00
195,
31 50
271,
17 25
.. 319,
uo 75
61,
305 00
224,
"
57 00
11, J!'ran'/din,
143,
37 75
11, .Alluras,
248,
15 75
"
,, 237,
11, Guadalupe,
16 75
"
11, Los .Angeles,
42,
165 50
11, E.i:oelsi<Jr,
166, " " u
180 76
220•.
37 50
ll. I>ottmey'
,, 198,
11, Wilmington,
72 00
,,
u
11 • .Abell,
146,
103 50
11, Union,
58, cc .er
128 75
11, North Butte,
230,
37 50
11, Monrooia,
sos, u , ,
66 00
11, So. BanFranciaco, " 212, u " "
93 50
12, Quitman,
88,
88 50
,,
u
12, Meridian,
182,
37 75
12, Madison,
23. H C4 " "
115 50
12, FaJJbrook,
317,
23 25
" "
12, ~atrtU,
2«, " " u
92 25
12, Pa11adena,
272,
144 00
13, Manzanita,
102,
32 60
lS, Suisun,
65, " " ,, u "
76 25
13, Harmony,
164, u " u ..
16 50.

..

..

..

..

....

..

..

..

$'7 60 :
118 00
5 25
15 00
9 00
40 26
35 25
16 00
9 25
15 50
7 25

12 25
7 75
7 50
6 50
10 75
16 00
4 50
()()

24 50

7 00
23 25
6 25
5 25
9 75
28 00
10 50
5 75
28 25
65 00
14 00
11 25
5 25
5 25
42 50
54 25
11 50
13 00
29 50
S8 25
11 50
IS Q0
26' 50
9 50
10 25
S2 50
4 75
2, 76
35 00
10 50
17 76
5 &O

858

Stateme nt of Receipts f <Yr Accoun t

[Oct. 31,

Gen.Fund. &p.P'und.

1696.

$ 7 00
No. 4.3, does in full to Joly SI, 1896, $23 00
.Aug.13, Bil-am,
34 25
75
119
"
"
·•
"
68,
" 13. Morning Star,
7 25
21 76
"
"
I61, " "
I3, Keystone,
4. 25
18 76
" 2R8, " "
" 13, Mazwell,
16 00
51 .00
"
179, " " ' ' "
13, Mendocino ,
IS 75
77 2.5
"
"
123, " "
13. Sotoyome,
23 60
79 60
''" "
209, " "
I3, King Dallid'•·
IO 25
4.6 76
14.0,
lS, Ot•rtiB,
4.9 00
155 00
"
10,
"
13, San Jowe,
I2 25
4.8 75
" " "
"
80,
" 13, Jone,
ll 25
60 76
76,
13, Bear Mounl.ain,
36 75
158 25
" "
139, " "
13, Oroakett,
5 25
15 75
"
"
" "
9:.1,
13, Acacia,
I8 50
61 50
" "
" · 200,
13, Truckee,
23 00
77 00.
"
"
" 39, " " " "
13, Yuba,
tf> 00
322 00
"
I3, South'n Oalf.fornia . " 278, " " " " "
17 75
63 25
" 211,
13, San Benito,
76 5250
~50
2I97
"
"
so~.
"
Lucia,,
" 13, Santa
u
"
"
' 318,
'' 13, .Efnmanuel,
29 50
23 60
24.1, " " " " "
I3, Santa .Ana,
7 00
35 00
,.
u
"
" 310, ,, Cl
13, Sisson,
19 26
75
63
1'67.
••
13, .Alameda,
3 76
11 25
24.9,
13, Greemrille,
37 75
ISl 25
40,
13, Saoramento,
9 25
39 76
266,
IS, Lodi,
4 25
12 76
98,
13, HorniWs,
"
14 60
61 60
,, 277,
.., 13, Selma.
21 26
,, . "
u
ff1 76
296,
I3, Silller Gate,
24. 60
108 50
269, "
I3, Olille Branch,
u
,,
16 76
25
68
1S4.,
"
IS, Vacaville,
" "
860
3050
186,
Ill, Eoening Star,
,,
22 00
79 00
9,
I3, Oorinthian,
"
16 50
74. 50
126,
I3, La Fayette,
8 26
27 76
228,
Athens,
H,
700
3600
268,
14, Penrhyn,
760
2250
:.!63, " u
14., Landmark ,
6 00
18 00
.. 284.,
H, Tyrian,
12 75
4.6 25
sos,
" 14. PortenJ~,
7 60
50
28
" 325,
.. 14., aonsuelo,
7 60
Sl 60
.. 27',
'' 14, .A.tTOyO,
13 76
4.7 25
.. I49, " " ,,
'' 14, I.4tJBen,
6 50
19 50
.. 322, " Cl
14, .Alhambra,
6 00
I8 00
14.I,
"• U, (}rqfttm,
22 75
79 25
300,
14., RedlandB,
,, ,.. ,,
64. 60
193 50
«,
14., Moum Moriah,
8 2r;
30 76
24.,
14, Mariposa,
20 60
82 iiO
I6I,
I6, Palmyra,
8 26
S2 76
266,
I6, Orland,
" "
14 50
64 50
.. 2I7,
15, M<mt.erey,
7 00
2I 00
4.6,
16, Te:i:as,
,,
16 00
72 00
.. '199,
" I6, Harlley,
fl
,,
4. 75
14. 25
u
"
100,
Ill, Campo Seco,
1

..

..

...

..

..

..

..

.. ..

..

..

..

1896.]

Of the Grand Lodge of Oalif<mu'a.

Gen.Fund. Rep.Fund .

1896.

No, 5, does In foll to Joly SI, 1896, $39 00
Aug. 15, Benicia,
I 76 60
30, •• ..
" 15. Golden (}ate,
" ..
,, 13,
" I5, Nflf!ada,
116 00
.. "
215,
" 15, Oak Grooe,
158 25
"
15, San Mateo,
I68,
6200
,,
,,
22,
" I5, Occidental,
24.S 50
I9,
" I5, San Joaquin,
u
"
73 75
.. 103,
" 16, Orovtlle,
65 60
" 15, Elsinore,
" 289, u ,,
12 00
.. 24.2,
.. 15, Magnolia,
39 .75
«c
" 15. Ji\-esno,
24.7, . , " tC . . "
129 75
,, '•
I8,
" I5, Mountain Shaik,
27 00
,,
15, North East,
266, ,,
2' ()()
" 15, Henry (Jl,ay,
95,
(9 75
.. 232,
" 15, Janeat1ille,
27 50
u u
.. 312,
I6, Los Banoe,
33 76
79,
" 15, HumJJ<>/,dJ,,
143 76
15, Hayward,
226,
26 60
" 15, Speranza Italiana, " 219.
83 75
27,
" 15, 7nnity,
61 50
"
,,IC ' '
(9 25
" 15, Hope,
" 234, ,,
83,
" 16, Rising &r,
56 00
38,
" 18, Ophir,
38 50
lU,
I64 26
20' Oriental,
2I, Stanislaus ,
" 200,
43 60
21, J!)urekiL,
16,
37 50
h
,,
.. 268, " "
24., Durant,
100 25
.. 25, ..nttoah,
176,'
S2 75
ff
u
"
ff
89,
10 60
" 25, R,ose's Bar,
25, Madera,
280,
...... 25
,,
227,
26, Oontra Oo1ta,
19 60
99,
• " 26, La Gi·ange,
61 50
u
,, u cc
.. 306,
" 2'1, .A1h/ar,
S6 75
IC
CC
131,
" 27, Woodbridge,
60 25
us, .. u
''· 27, Hden,
70 00
93,
" 28, Saini. Helena,
54. 2ii
"
160,
" 28, Pilot ll'Ul, :
9 00
" 29, (}eorgel01Cfl,
25, u ,,
64. 25
29, Anchor,
273,
44. 76
282,
" 29, Oc,illayomi,
21 26
35 ,
,,
" 29, San Diego,
173 50
,,
323, fl , ,
' ' 81, Whittier,
32 25
"
69,
Sl, Gravel Range,
26 00
,,
cc "
.. 807,
" 31, Safll.a Monfoa,
48 60
•• 281,
" Sl, Moun/, Shall.a.,
25 50
cc ,,
u
,, 298,
23 60
" SI, Mokelumne Hill,
•• Sl, Temeaonl,
314,
21 26
186, " cc
Sl. Olaiborne,
39 00
31, San Miguel,
285, ,, u u "
28 50
u
,
,
60, ,,
Sept. 1, Plumaa,
I6 75
..
u
,,
2, Tehachapi ,
SLS,
21 75
Femdal.e,
193, "
67 60

. ..

..

..

.,

..

..

..

..

..

..

3;

859

..

$11 00
46 50
32 00
4.2 75
1700
65 50
24 25
17 .50
4. 00
13 25
33 25
9 00
8 00
I6 25
8 50
7 26
4.2 25
8 50
22 25
16 60
10 75
10 00
IO 60
4.5 7ii
13 60
11 50
22 76
9 25
3 50
10 76
6 60
I8 50
8 25
16 76
18 00
16 75
3 00

13 76
9 25
6 76
t6 60
6 76
B 00
13 60 .
7 50
6 50
6 76
9 00
'i GO
5 25

4 25
17 50

Statement of Receipts for .Accbunt

860

1896.J

OJ tlie Grand Lorlge of California.

861

Geo.Fund. Rep.Fond.

1896.

Sept. 3, Yosemite,
3, Vitrutlius,
"

[Oct. 31,

S, Rio Vista,
1>, Lexington,

" 16, Hawaiian,
" 28, Drytoum,
Oct. 1, Table Mountain,
'· S. Needka,
3, Long Beach,
"

No. 138, does in fall to Joly 31, 1896, $39 75
28 50
•• .. ..
.. 14.'i,
41 7~
" 208,
49 25
104.
" "
162 25
21,
" "
14 00
174,
57 00
"
"
"U.124,
D., do es ia full to Sept. 30, 1896, 33 75
37 00
U. D.,

.. .. ..

..
..

.... .... ..

..

"

.. .. .. "

..

S 5 25
8 50
8 25
7 75

~n ~tmoriam.
-~-

4 00
14 00
7 25

TOM ADAMSON BROWN, P. M.

8 00

CALIFORNIA LoooE, No. 1. ........... . ... . . Died November 18, 1895

To~! amounts received to 31st Ociober, 1896, ...•..... $17,220 00 ${,517 25
Making an a.ggregate sum of.•••.•••••..••••...• $21,737 25

JOHN McCOMB, P. M.
CALIFORNIA LoooE, No. 1,.,,,.,, ••...••..•...• Died June 18, 1896

r'

GUSTAVUS LANGFORD SPEAR, P. M.
CALIFORNIA LoooE, No. 1• ••••...•...•.• , •.•••• Died April 30, 1896

STEPHEN WING, P. M.
CALIFORNIA LoooE, No. 1. . .......... ... ......... Died Joly 5, 1896

WILLIAM CALDWELL BELCHER, P. M.
CoRIFtHIAN LoooE, No. 9 ................ , .Died Sept.ember 1, 1895

BENJAMIN CORY, P. M.
SAN JOSE LoDGE, No. 10 . .. ............... . .. Died Jannary 6, 1896

SAMUEL SKINNER KNAPP. P. M.
YouNT LoooE, ~o. 12 ............. . . . ..... .... l>ied June 5, 1896

CHARLES McHARVEY, P. M.
TEMPLE LoooE, No. 14 . .............. . ........ Died April 21, 1896

JOHN MACKLIN MINER, P. M.
EUREKA LoooE, No. 16 ........................ ~ .Died May 9, 1896 ·

LOUIS BRESSE, P. M.
LA PARFAITE Ui.ION LoDGE, No. 17 . . .••. ..... Died March IO, 1896

WILLIAM GRAHAM, P. M.
SAN JOAQUIN Looox, No. 19 ..........•.•.. Died November 30, 1895

JOHN LEVINSKY, P. M.
SAN JOAQUIN LoooE, No. 19, ..... . ...••.•..•. Died Angus~ 8, 1895

862

Mowming Pages of the

Grarid Lodge of Culijornia.

~u ~lcmoriam.

~u :Bl.cmoriam.

->E-

-~-

863

P. M.
GEO RGE MAC KAY ADAMS,
Nove mber 15, 1895
l
· .. · · · · D'ed
•
·
•..
,
...
22
No.
E,
LODG
Ai,
OCCIDENT

M.
FRA NK SAN BOR N HAT CH, P.
. : ..... . Died Sept embe r 11, 1895
.....
68
No.
E,
.LoDG
STAR
MORNING

LEW IS FUL LER JON ES, P. M.
Nove mber 5, 1895
• •• • • · ·. · · Died
MARIPOSA LoooE, No. 24 .... . .•••

P. M.
STE PHE N GRA NT WH IPPL E,
Octo ber 21, 1895
Died
.....
.....
.....
.....
HUMBOLDT LODGE, No. 79

JOH N MIL TON CJ,A RK, P. M.
Apri l 29, 1896
. · · .. ·• .... · · Died
SAN DIEGO LoooE, No. 35 .... ....

P. M.
WIL LIA M DAV ID OLE NDO RF,
.... .... .... . Died Marc h 5, 1896
....
....
....
84
No.
E,
LoDG
ER
VESP

I
M.
FRA NK ELL IS LAM BER T, P.
1895
20,
mber
Dece
Died
..... ... ..
SACRAMENTO J;..00011, No. 40 .....

CHA RLE S DAL Y, P. M.
.... .... .... Died Octo ber 7, 1895
NAVAL Looo.E, No. 87 .... .... ....

ISID OR WEI SS, P • .M.
17, 1896
.
.... .... .... . • Died May
MARTINEZ Looo11:, No. 41. .... ....

, P. M.
ISAA C SHE RWO OD HAL SEY
..... ... Died Nove mber 8, 1895
.....
.....
.....
87
No.
E,
LoDG
L
NAVA

P. M.
WIL LIA M DAV ID JOH NST ON,
Dece mber 6, 18!15
Died
..
.
.....
.....
44
MOUNT MORIAH Looo11:, No.

ALL EN PRE SLE Y, P. M.
.
5, 1895
89 ..... ..... . . ..... . Died Nove mber
No.
RosE's BAR LoDGE,

M.
HEN RY MOR TIM ER FISK , P.
.· · • · • . Died Apri l 4, 1896
·
·
·
•
·
·
.
.....
44
No.
.E,
MouNT MORIAH Looo

FRE DER ICK BEC KER , P. M.
ber 18, 1895
No. 99 .... .... .... .... .. Died Octo
E,
LoDG
NGE
GR.A
LA

P. M.
JOS EPH OGD EN HER ITA GE,
.. Died May 11, 1896
.
....
....
....
....
....
TEXAS LoooE, No. 46 ....

BEN JAM IN JACO BS, P. M.
r 23, 1895
•.••. '. ••.. ..•• ..... • Died Sept embe
108
No.
E,
OWEN Looo

P. M.
THO MAS HITO UR. DODSON,
.... . ••. Died Octo ber 7, 1895
•....
••.•
•
50
o.
N
E,
LODG
WN
FORBESTO

P. M.
AND REW JAC KSO N MEA NS,
Octo ber 9, 1895
Died
..
....
....
....
....
SUMMIT LoDGE, No. 112 ....

ALB ERT HAR T, P. M.
Apri l 23, 1896
· · • · · · • • • · • · Died
UNION Looo11:, No. 58 . • ..•. . . .•...

MEN DEL ESB ERG , P. M.
21, 1896 1
120 .... .... .... .... .. Died Febr uary
No.
E,
FIDELITY LoDG

1

DAN IEL T. BAR TLE TT, P. M.
l 21, 1896
N 62 • • '• · ' •' '' '' Died Apri
GEORGE WASHINGTON LODGE, O.
ROB ERT AIT KEN , P. M.
Died Octo ber 8, 1895
65.. · · · · · · · · · · .. 1 • " " • . . •
No.
E,
AMADOR LODG

1

'

M.
JAM ES SHA DRI CH BEL L, P.
July 10, 1896
Die.d
..
....
....
....
....
SOTOYOME LoooE, No. 123 ....
JAM ES P GAN NON , P. M.
uary 17, IS9ci
No. 126 ..... ..... .•.• • Died Febr
E,
LODG
LA FAYETTE

864

Mo11it'ning Pagei1 of tlie

Grand Lodge of California.

~u ~lemoriam.

~n ~lcmorinm.

-~JACOB GREGG HEALD , P. M.
er 18, 1895
CURTIS LoooE, No. 140 •••••• .. • .... , ..... Died Septemb
JOHN RENSH AW LOCKWOOD, P. M.
Died November -25, 1895
LASSEN LoooE, No. 149 ... · · · .. · · · · .. • · ..
l
WILLIA M HARDI NG MATHE RLY, P. M·
1196
2,
May
Died
.
..
..
........
PILOT RILL LODGE, No: 160.. • ...... ·
HUGH HARRIS ON BELL, P. M.
Died December -, 1895
DRYTOWN LODGE, No. 174 ..... " "" ... _.. "
HENRY JACKSO N POOLE, P. M.
Died January 10, 1896
RUSSIAN RIVER LoDGE, No. 181. ' . ' ' .. ' ' ' ' . ..
JOHN GRANT , P. M.
Died November 13, 1895
EVENING STAR LoDGE, No. 186. · · · · · · · · · ...
LAWRE NCE HISLOP JOHNST ON, P. M.
Died August 27, 1895
EVENlNG STAR LODGE; No. 186 ........ .•.... •

.
WILLIA M AUSTIN HOLCOMB, P. M.
30, 1896
April
Died
•
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
OAKLAND LODGE, No. 188. · · ·.' ''''.
GREEN GROVE DUDLE Y, P. M.
Died Februar y 18, 1896
FERNDALE LoDGE, No. 193 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
1895
H~NR y MERRI LL HENDE RSON, P. M.
13,
er
Decemb
Died
.MOUNTAIN Vu:w LoooE, No. 194.. . .......•
. JOHN DILLAR D SPENCE R, P. M.
Vied Decemb
STANISLAUS LoooE, No. 106 . . ........ ......

865

er 13, 1895

-~­
ANDRE W NEEL BELL, P. M.
lNvo LODGE, No. 221. ........ ........ ....... Died March 27,

1896

JOHN LOGAN CROW, P. M.

HOPE LoDGE, No. ~34 •.••.... ...... . ..... Died February 25,

1896

JEFFER SON ELMOR E PUTMA N, P. M.
1895
LAUREL LODGE, No. 245 ..... . ........ ........ Died October 7,
CYRUS R WICKES , P. M.
LAUREL LoDGE, No. 245 ........ . : ........ ...... Died June 21,

1896

RALPH ELLIS, P. M.
Lom LODGE, No. 256 ........ ........ ...... Died Septemb er 3,

1895

JAMES WILSON BLAKE , P. M.
1895
KING SOLOMON'S LODGE, No. 260 .•••.... ... Died December 24,
SA.MUEL VALLEA U, P. M.
KING SOLOMON'S LoooE, No. 260 .. ". ........ .... Died June 12,

1896

ISIDOR E WEILL, P. M.
1895
LoMPOc Looo E, No. 262.. ." ........ ........ Died Septemb er 30,
FREDE RICK FRANK LIN PHELPS , P. M.
1896
GALT LoDGE, No. 267 ........ ........ ........ .. Died May 24,
ALLEN PERCIV AL BENTL EY, P. M,
1896
ANCHOR LoDGE, No. 273 ........ ........ ....... Died July 30,
EDWIN MOORE, P. M,
1896
MADERA LODGE, No. 280 .... . ........ .... . ..... . Died June 5,

2U

866

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

.Amendments to the, Oonstitu,twn

867

AM END ME NTS
TO THE

AN ALMANAC OF FULL MOONS, ETC.

CONSTITUTION OF THE GRAND LODGE,\

FROM

Adopt ed Octobe r, A. L. 5896.
of Sec.
1. To strike out, in the first and second lines of the tenth clause
so that
";
months
two
every
in
"once
words,
these
II,
Part
IV,
tion 1, Article
that clause shall now read as follows :of all
10th. To transmit to each Lodge within the jurisdict ion a list
having
after
ons,
restorati
and
expulsions, suspensions for un~aaonic conduct,
by the
been thus suspended or expelled, of which he shall have been notified
record
and
_
list
complete
and
full
a
office
several Lodges, and shall keep in hie
be notified
shall
he
which
of
ons,
restorati
and
ons,
suspensi
ns,
e:r.pulsio
all
of
by the several Lodges. ·
Part IV,
• 2. To strike out all the fourth clause of Section 2, Article V,
which has heretofore read as follows :icall1
4th. A Black Book, in which he shall record, upon pages alphabet
expelled,
arranged, the full name or names of those rejected for the degrees,
receive the
suspended, or restored by any of the Lodges, so far as he shall
proper notice thereof.

1897 TO 1899, INCLUSIV E,

o~
the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of I owa, iuy3.
(Copied from
.

...
-lltT

.....

;;::

>

c:

n

"'
=

r:"'

>
z

>

~

.

;;::

>

;<

...,

c:

i:i

:;;

0

Q

~

tl

~

n

iC

iC

.'" .."' ...."' .."'"'
0

iC

.

..

. .

."'

16

q.

14

I2

U

t>l

~
.,,"' c "'0..z
i!
>

.z

"'
-- -----M. W:-Th. s::- s:---;z w· Th~
S. Tu. Th. Apr. Apr. May
• ·"a.
1{1

t1

18

~& h
-1191

17

8

6

6

Sa.

M.

Tu

7 1 :as

27

25

Fr.
2

6

IO

9

9

>

;<

16

27

18

- ---~- p:;--;;- -S-T -Th -s- - - -W.- Apr. Apr. May

-----.----1-8

Utt

t.. i ....... .,> ..."' .. ..z .... ~ .,"'
<

·:

)

•

•

•

Th
25

•

•

·

u.

.f

3

2

I

23

22

21

i9

·Sa.

M.

29

28

28

17

17

I

19
8
----10

F~---------S. Mar. Apr. May
M. Tu. W. Fr.
r.
18

•
31

2

11

868

Return& of the SUbordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

RET URN S
OF THE

SUBORDINATE LODGES
UNDER THE JURISDICTI ON OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA~
For the Year to August 1st, A. L. 6898.

OALIFO RNIA LODGE. No. 1.
San Franolaco , San Franclao• County.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICER S:

Henry Ascroft, Ma.814r,
George Knight White, Seni~ Deacon,
William Graham Brown, Senior Warden, Henry Philip Umbsen, Junior Deacon,
Ernest Herbert Bills, Junior Warden,
Henry Willis Adams, Marahal,
Hermann Franklin MUiler, Treasurer,
Waiter Amos Scott,
} Stewards,
Franklin Henry Da.- Searetary.
Charles Mortimer Plum, Jr.,
William Warren Coleman, Tyler.
Paat Jtlaater• 1

William Henry Lyon,
George Lyman Grimes,
Robert Henry Barclay,
William Mason Rundell,
Robert McMillan,
James LafayeUe Cogswell,
William Thoma.s Reynolds, Edward ·Peabody,
Francie Marlon Hackett,
Morris March Estee,P.G.M .,Hermann Franklin Muller, John Elisha Rueeell,
:Franklin Henry Dsy,
Charles Lewis Patton,
Richard Stephen Culverwell,
George Johnson" G. 8.,
Edward William P.eabody, Edward Waterman Roberts,
Abraham Halsey,
William Thomae Fonda,
William Oliver Gould,
John Henry Dickinson,
Edward Engle Eyre,
J~mee Oglesby, . .
Peter Thoma.s Barclay,
George Tisdale Bromley, Frank Worthy Cush.mg,
George Childs,
Charles Medley Dougherty, William EJward Smith,
George Dietterle,
Charles Palmer Chesley,
Artemas Webster,
Edward Tyrrel Bisset Mille, John Kirkpatrick ,
Joseph Claybaugh McKee,
Edward Potter Cressey,
Charles D Wilson,
MASTER MASONS:

Alexa.ode;, Wm.Stanle y
Avery, William Henry
Adair, Charles James
Babcock, John Pease
Adame, Charles Hitchcock Ames, George Elias
Archer, James, Jr.
Bachelder, Charles Sumner
Adams, George Perrin
Ash, Robert
Badlam, Alexander
Ade, George William
Athearn, Charles Grandison Baker'. Charles. Henry ·
Ager, John Edwa.rd

1896.J

To the Grand Lodge of California.

869

.Baldwin, Frederick Albert Clary, William Henry
Evans, Joseph John
Bald'l'{in, Sherman Charles Cline, Henry Augustns
Evans, Wllliam Thomas
Bannister, Alfred
Colvin, Hugh
Everett, Oliver
Barnes, Robert Lawrence C.Cometock,J ohnFeltOBl[ood Farquharso n, David
Barnes, William Sanford
Cook, John Jay
Feely, Patrick Henry
Battersby, James
Cornwall, Pierre Barlow Ferguson, George Harriaon
Ba.um, Dafid Andrew
Cox, Henry
Feasier, Clarence Louis
]Jaumelster,Bernhardt.Her'nCraig, Robert Lee
Fiddes, George
Beck, Cha.rles Adam
Crim, William Henry
Fielding, Samuel Marion
Beckedorlf, Geo. H'y Lonls Crocker, Charles Frederic Finck, Jalins
Bell, Newton MerQer
Crocker, Henry Josepb
Firth, Joseph Kirk
Bell, William Tronp
Crock.er, William
Fish, Edward Nye
Bengtson, ,John
Crocker, William Henry
Fisher, Wm. Charles Henry
Benson, John Adelbert
Oammings, Walter Bailey Fleming, Joseph Frederic
Binning, Charles
Cnnningham, John Francis Foster, William Barrett
Black, Howard
Cushing, Charles Davis
Fowler, William Henry
Black, Orlow
Daggett, John Randolph
Frank, John
Blackman, Arthur Manning Dall, Peter Peterson
•'ranklln, Max John
Blake, Alfred Edward
Dalton, Franklin
Fraser, Hngh
Blake, Charles Edward
Dalton, Thomas Benton
Fretwell, Edwin
Blossom, Henry Eckford Davis, Jacob Zeigler
Gabbs, Albert Steph. Isaiah
B~oarde, James Blain
Davis, Milo Smith
Garibaldi, Stephen Joseph
Boobar, James Guptill
Dean, Peter
Garnett, Loafs Anacharsis
Boole, Fred Warren
DeConlnck, Frank Camille Garniss, James Rogers
Bowman, John Schmerl
Deering, Thomae Pa.trick Gawne, Waller Whitfield
Bradbury, Alfred William Dewey, William Pierce
Geissler, Edward August
Bradrick, Isaac
DeWitt, Thomae Byron
Gere, George Grant
Brsgg, Robert
Dippel, William Gast&v
Gibson, Jamee Spanldlng
Brett, John Robinson
Dobler, Charles
Gillson, John
Brice, William
Dodd, Willis Gorman
Gleason, George Ruggles
Bridge, William Edward
Doolittle, Jefferson Ely
Golcher, Henry Coughlin
Brink, Charles Henry
Dorn, Diademus Socrates Golcher, William James
Brittan, Nathaniel Jones Dow, George Edwin
Good, John
Brown, Frederick William Dowling, Thomas Henry Goodban, Francis Edward
Brown, Henry Adams
Driscoll, Daniel Oliver
Graham, Gerald Oakeley
Brown, Roland Gair
Duboce, Victor Donglaim Gray, Gec.rge Freeman
Brown, William Anderson Duffie, Christopber Wm.
Gray, Harry Nathaniel
Brown, William Spence
Dancan, Emile
Gray, Robert Brockhouse
Brumagim, Mark
Dancan, James Wesley
Green, Charles Ernest
Buckbee, Charles Alvah
Dunn, James
Greenhood, Hugo Oscar
Bullivant, Herbert Ellis
Easton, Ansel Mills
Griffin, John Wesley
Bnliivant, Thomas Ea~ene Eastwood, Joseph
Griffith, John Beruth
Bnnker, Paul
Eckart, William Roberts
Grnndel, Axel Herman
Bonker, Robert Elmer
Eddy, Richard A
Hagmaier, Charles
Barden, Wilson
Edwards, Fr.ede~lck Jay
Hall, Robert
Burgess, Oscar Ot.is
Edwards, Rodney Miller
Hamilton, Hiram Milton
Bnrke, Martin John
Effinger, John Henry
Hammond, Rich, Pindell, Jr.
Bnshell, Alfred
Eilert, Levi Richard'
Hand, William .Mulford
Campbell, Vernon
Elliot, Charles Emery
Hanssen, Olaf Jllrften
Oaswell, Marion :F'
Elliot, John P
Hardy, Thomas '.Henry
Oattarinich , Josqph Ferd. Ellison, Joseph Reid
Haskell, John Mace
Chapin, Dinemore Davis
Elwert, Charles Philip
HanxhJlrBt, Samnel Weeks
Clark, John Franklin
Emerson, Sylvester
Haven, Charles Dwight

870

ate Lodge,s
Re tur ns of the SulJordin

[Aug. 1,

Nash, Charles
Leviston, William
Heald, Edw ard Payson
Neal, Charles Sanders
on
mps
Tho
rren
Libby, Wa
Hel en, Richard
Nelson, William Hen ry
ler
Mil
eph
Litchfield, Jos
Helm, William Jamee
Newman, George How ard
ion
r Loane, Francie Mar
Heyer, William Christophe
Noonen, Joh n
Locke, Hollie Maine
Heywood, William Brewer
Noteware, Edwd, Waeh'ton
ck
deri
Fre
ly
See
Long,
rien, Thomas V
O'B
HilJ, Ie11110 Leroy
liam
Wil
n
Lucas, Joh
er, Fra ncis Bruce
Hilton, Jos eph Henry
Oliv
land
Shir
Mackay, Walter
William Henry
e,
Holflll&n, Hen ry Nathaniel
Orn
Madden, Wilkes Ooyler
, Herman
reen
Hogan, Chae. Constantine
Ote
r Malmgren, Niles Pet er
Henry Morgan
ens,
Hopkins, Mathew Leande
Ow
i
Lev
o
Mann, Azr
Edward Fle tche r
,
ker
Hosmer, Har ry Bordley
Par
rles
Cha
n
Marshotz, Leo
Harvey Dru rr
,
ker
Hot alin g, Anson Par son s
Par
Martin, Minor Silas
Jul' s Pet er &endix
,
lsen
Howard, Charles Webb
·Pau
Marvin, Fra nk William
ah
Zer
ace
rge Lingard
Hor
,
Geo
ard
ne,
How
Pay
Marye, George ThomllB, Jr.
Warren J;tltch
ne,
Howes, Cyrus Pierce
Pay
n
Alle
ry
MllBeey, Hen
Hub bar d, Henry Calvin
Pec k, Joh n Edward
Mathewson, Joh n
l, Rob ert Thomae
Hubbard, Thomae Jay
Pee
gt'n
llio
Matthewe,ArthorWe
Hoested, Orson Jos tos
Pendleton, Edwin Stre et
liam Frederick
Wil
,
Mao
Bolf, Abrll!Il
Pet erso n, Art hur Simison
Mayer, Bamoel David
Hughes, Joh n Clarence
Phillips, Nat han Fra zer
'n
ewt
ereN
halm
McOonnell,C
llipe, William Rip par d
Hur ley, Joh n
Phi
Mc cur dy, Daniel
er, William Adam
Iteell, Andrew Jac kso n
Pip
McDonald, Jam ee Monroe
Jac oby , ~alias Herman
Pla tt, Horace Garvin
n
Doa
er
Pet
1ne,
11rl1
McF
Jam es, Fra nk
Plum, Charles Mortimer
MoFaal, Charles Lincoln
Jetfere, Milo Sidney
Plummer, Alvin
ins
Rob
1c
Mcintosh, Is111
Johnson, Edward Thompson
Pon d, Jam es Lonie
n
liga
McLane, George Mil
Joh nso n, Mathias
Por ter, Abe l Willard
McLean, Jam es Plumb
Johnston, Charles Robert
Powers, Fra nk H
gton
Bhln
Wll
.
Geo
r,
Nea
.M:c
ston , Joh n
Jon es, Hen ry Isaac
Pre
m
Ada
n
Joh
s,
Mc William
nam, Rob ert Har vey
Jon es, Ste phe n Orville
Put
an
odm
Meigs, Anson Wo
mussen, Pet er
Jon es, William Price
Ras
Mentz, Joh n Hen ry
.Tones, William Roderick
Redmond, William Joh n
ncie
Fra
n
Joh
rill,
Mer
Kahlee, Fra nk
Reed, Wallace Weller
Milling, William
Kelso, Joh n
Reid, Jam ee William
ton
Clin
Mills, Fre der ick
Kimball, Moses Coombe
Renner, George
et
Biss
Mills, William Lncae
Kimble, Liston
Renz, William
uel
Sam
n
Joh
ll,
che
Mit
King, Jos eph Libbey
Reynolds, Fra nk Bailey
rew
And
Moore,
Kinne, Oharlee Mason
Richardson, Ern est Jam es
l
wel
Cad
Moore, Charles
RieBB, Joh n William
Kir k, Robert
ker
Moore, Charles Par
Kirkpatriok, Thomae
Riordan, Thomae Daniel
Moore, Robert 8
Klein, Joh n Edward
Robb, Fra nk
Moore, William Lewie
Kmght, George Alexander
Robertson, Joh n Prince
e'n
iete
Chr
ias
,Jul
Moormann
·
Koenig, Anton
Robinson, William Charles
ry
Per
M.orey, Ellwood
Oobb
el
Ans
,
ison
Koenig, Frank
Rob
ll
Morgan, Joh n Stillwe
Kohler, Hen ry
Ross, Donald
Morrison, Wm. Hamilton
F.
lard
Mil
e,
rang
LaG
Rowell, Leonard Freeland
n
Joh
Moller,
Lamb, Thomas. Jac kso n
Rolofson, Alrred Carrie
ert
Mlinch, Rob
Landers, Joh n
Ross, Hen ry Beauchamp
nard
Mnrdock, George Leo
Landgrebe, Robert George
Rossell, Alexand~r
Murdock, Henry Jam es
Lan e, William Edmund
Rossell, Monson
Ben
d,
roy
Murgat
Lar ken , Jam es Frederic
Ryan, Michael
ert
Alb
Marschel,
Lawson, Andrew •
Sanborn, Albion "Irving
er
rtim
Nagel, Louis Mo
Leinhardt, Joh n

1896.J

•
n l i'-1'.ornia.
i~e o>f va
1
To the Gr an d £or"'11

Saunders, George He 11ry
Schmidt, Louis
Scott, Har ry Swe et
Searle, Jam es John
Shaw, Stephen William
Simpson, Jam es
Binn, John.George
Sjoberg, Anders Gustaf
Slack, Oharles William
Slater, J oho Charles
Smith, Ferdinand
Smith, Fra ncis
Smith, Frank
Smith, George Stra it
Smith, Har ry Gardiner
Smith, Hen ry Ale xan der
Smith, Her ber t .
Smith, Jam es] )
Smith, William Fre der ick
Smith, William Jac ob
Somers, George Burbank
Boole, Arthur Calvin
Spence, Abel Stra in
Spiller, George Weldon
Spruance, Joh n
Btadtfeld, Jac ob
Stanton, .Leon Irenee
Starbird, Albion Wilson
Stearns, William Hen ry
Steers, Ed ward Eve rett
Btotson, William Wirt

871

;:::::g

.
Walker Jam
Stevens, William Emerson
Warbu;ton,
x.
Ale
ard
Edw
on,
ens
Stev
Ward Wiii.1am
Stevenson, Joh n
•
Btr ong, George Josiah
Watson Joh n p. ark
'
ert
Rob
.,
Buddeft
Weed, Merritt Her man
S .
Weeks, Joh n Allard Jr ·
.wam, Ed~a~d Robinson
W .1 J oh n Per ez •
nard
Ber
ham
Wil
ars,
sSwe Thomas Underhill Wee1lls, Asa
Reynolds
.Sw~eny,
J • h
oho
J
t~
Wen
t
w1ft, J &ml s Flitcrof
;:ep
Ot"
t
co~
Wes
le
Taylor, Charles Litttl
• 1e artt>n
Taylor, Henry Hun y
ert Bachman
Rob
st,
We
Taylor J 0 h 0
Wheaton, Milton Alverd
'
Th
Whittle, Henr
ompeon, Frederick Wm.
Wilkie, Andre~
T~omson, Joh n Tobin
Wilkie • Andrew, Jr.
Charles Stephen
Tilton,
w ·1k· J
T.isd aJe, Robe rt Francie
W:ll mFs, da~es Malcolm
Titchworth, Casper
• re enc k Adolph
·
k"
T
Mort. Williams Will iam Avery
omp ms, Mmthorneing
,S
w·1
Towne, Arthnr Gow
~ mans, teph en Caleb
man
Free
sk
Tra
11
chibald
::~~:; ~~~ 0 ~ oAbrert
Treph,agen, William Arthur
'
Tubbs, Hiram
ren Dean
:::::::·• ~11r
Tor ner , Jam es Frederick W
1ver Per ry
lph
Ado
Unger,
Woodward, Albert Pearson
Unger, Milton Edwin
ray , Samuel
v an Laven, Hermon
W . h ' . rles William
rig t, Oba
G
Vanghan ' a·iram
W. ht Cyru s Smith
r~g •
n
Joh
ard
Edw
el,
Vog
Wnght, Newton
e
r
Geo
en,
Stad
Von
Walzen, Joh n Frederick
g
Wads
tiss Yoong Shirl ey Trev er-4 72.
worth, Charles Cur
•
Wagner, August Hen ry

8

0

FELLOW OBAFT :

Eddy, Nelson Bnt ler- 1.
ENTERED APPRENTIC

Prey, Oscar Franklin
Purdie, George

ES:

Ramsdell, Har ry Vinton

Wllliams, Fre der ick -4.

.RESTORED :

Daniell, William Hen ry
Dodd, Willie Gorman

w t R
Eddy, Edward Baldwin · es • obe rt Bachman
M
W"lk"
cDonald, Jam es .Monroe· ·' ins, Jam es Malcolm-G.

Blake, Edward Pre sbre y
~ofell, William Hen ry
Eddy, Edward Baldwin

Goewey, Jam es .Monroe
Sharpe, Jam es Stu art

WITHDRAWN:

Smith, James Jerome
•
Whaley, Edward Ell iott - 7

-PAYMENT OF DU ES:
SUSPENDED FOR NON

M.acSherry Howard
bbs, William Edgar
Ban~mann, Charles Joline M
D Id 'J es Monroe Stu
t Rob ert Bac hm an- 8.
w
Daniell, William Hen ry
,
ODii ' &m F
es.
c
.
.
D dd , w·1Ihs
Mohrhardt, Ph·'i·1p reder1ck
man
Gor
o

872

Retwrns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

DIED:

h
Roberts, Stephen Neal
Ahlgren, Charles Frederick Johnson, Oscar ~tep. anns Shiels, William
n,
Arthur
PRire
Jones,
Oyrus
Wmsh1p
L
f d
Brow
Lamb Elbridge GerrJ
Spear, Gustavus ang or
Brown, Tom Adamson
McCo:nb, John
Thrall, Henry Bomer
Ohurchill, Clark
h
V n Sohaick Wing, Stephen-19. L
McC~llo;;,~ll'. 8 · a
Parker, Clark (B.·4 .)-V·
Coleman, Carlton Chinn
Edwards, Justns Huft
Norris, I iam
,
Hansen, Carl Chris. Antonin Porterfield, J osepb Hollm n

1b the Gt-an<l Lodge of Oall/<YrnUi.

873

TERA.MA LODGE, No. 3.
Saera.mento, Sacramento ~ount7.

Stated Meetings, ftrat Monday in each month.
OF.FICKRH:

William Elias John Baughman, Ma.at.er, James Ellsworth Thompson, Sen. Deactlti,
Oharles Richard Gosi, Senior Warden,
Charles Alfred Carlson, Junwr Dea.con,
Benjamin Franklin Stoll, Junior Warden, Frank Lytle Thirkield, Marahal,
Abram John'. Vermilya, Treasurer,
Thomas Ferriter, l Stewards
William Buckley Davis, Secretary,
John Heck,
f
'
William Wellox Sim, T11ler.
Paat lllastera •

.· WESTERN STAR LODGE, No. 2 ..
Shasta, Shasta County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Ful.l Moon.
OF'FICER81

James J,ee Richardson, Senior .Deacon,
Jewett ScrantoJ,J. ~ast~r,
n
Everett French Crocker, Junior Dea.con,
Edward Sweeney, Senwr Warde '
Horace Wier Green, Ma.rah.al,
WilliamAlexand'rBoswell,.Jun.Warden,
.
B ti }
Dame! Potter ye e, Steward.II, ·
William McKeag, Treasurer,
· Henry Jay Bonnell,
Morris Mehan, Secretary,
.
"'"ler
Ganther Fred. c. Schroeter, ~11 •
Pa.at Masters 1

Alex. Robertson Andrews, Frank Peck Satterlee,
Daniel Potter Bystle,
James Lee Richardson.
Clay Webster Taylor, P. (J.M., Joseph Weil,
Morris Mehan,
:MASTER MA80?'!8 :
Reel, Lonie
Kessler, John Calvin
Andrew, William
Rosevear, Samnel John
McCrnm,
Benjamin
Bander. John Peter
Rnmfeldt, Augnstns
McDonald,
Angus
Bell, Joseph Evans
Scott, John Varner
Bickford, William Henry McDonald, Bernard
Shuftletou, Bugh Hall
McDonald,
Luke
Boswell, Andrew Jackson
Sooter, John
McDonald. Peter
Bosayns, John
NicholRR, Thomas William Strode, George Orone
Carpenter, John
Obradovich, Samuel Milo Strode, John Sale
Donghel'ty, John M
Overmeyer, Charles Edwin Warfield, Robert
French, John Alexander
Perryman, Thomas John Well, Leopold
Garden, John William
Wbltney, Walter Adams
,Radnlovlch, Christopher
Gillespie, John
Wilson, B~nry Ellis-53•
James
•
Reagan,
James, Charles Henry
Recardo, John 1J
Kellner, Wilhelm

Joseph Richard Webater,
William Wellox Sim,
William Bnckley Davis,
Perrin Stanton,
Robert Oscar Cravens,

Frederick Conrad Stober, Elbridge La Fayette Hawk,
Peter Dnrno,
George William Railton,
Clarence Newton Nelson, Abram John Vermilya,.
William Hewson DaYis,
Frank Lytle 'l'hirkield.
Thomas Maria Bittanconrt,
MASTER MASONS :

Allen, John Morwood
Gett, William Andrew, Jr. Merrell, Isaac Lambert
Barreti, leaac Thomas
Girardey, William Ohmer Metzger, Benjamin
Barton, Charles Thomas
Givens, Charles Stuart
Mitchell, William
Bergman, Frank
Gottlieb, Samnel
Payne, Jeremiah Newton
Briggs, Alfred
Goulden, James
Pearson, John Lewis
Briggs, Wallace Alvin
Harper, Thomas
Philip, Robert
Brown, Charles Manning Hasness, Frank
Pike, John Elias Tacker
Blne, Myron Hooker
Hanh, J oho
Poorman, Samuel
Barnett, Angnstus
Hawk, Owen Dowd
Potter, Lyme M
Oarpenter, Joseph
Haynes, Edward
Roherte, John Henry
Oaselli, Ansono·
Heintzelman, Taylor Wash. Rohrer, F.r ederick William
Ohamplin, Nelson
Hotchkiss, Fred. Spencer Rosenfeld, Simon
Ohapman, Bernard Henry Hnbbard, Cynis Hayden
Rnhstaller, Fraok
Chapman, George Warren · Hobbs, Anthony
Ryao, John
Ohnrch, William Smithers Hyman, Daniel
Schaefer, Christian
Obrlsman, Elmer Jndson
Hyman, Jacob
Sohennert, Oarl Emil
Clemens, William Strong Jackman, Samnel Bason Soott, Thomas James
Oolemao, James Owen
Jackson, William Franklin Sim, Edgar William
Cuthbert, William Williams Johnson, Augnst Galmer Skelton, John
Denison, Elf Sherwin
Johnston, Alfred J
Strader, Harvey Winton
Derman, George Lonie
Joseph, Isaac
Stobbs, John L
Dowd, Ephraim Spencer Kincaid, Elbert·sevier
Todd, John William
De Puy, Edward Spencer Knox, William Frederick Tubbs, Henry Osmond
Domingos, John
Knntz, Peter
Tufts, Albert Currier
Ulp, Alfred
Dresher, Valentine
Leonard, Carl A
Drew, Warren Francis
Littlefield, Lewis Bateman Walther, William Rodolph
Eilers, '.l'heodore George Marsh, George Whitfield
Weinreich, Charles Edward
Poye, Wm. Robinson Smith Marty, Joseph
Weinreich, Henry
:Prommelt, Hngo
McBrown, John
Wratten, James Edward
Gallatin, Albert
McDould, Richard Hayes Woodbnrn, Charles Gabriel
Ga1Dble,Henry De Forest McKay, James
Wood, Thomas- 115.
Geeslin, John William

21

874

Returns of the SUbordinate Lodg.ea

1896.]

1o the Grand Lorlge of Oalifornia.

875

U'FILlATED :

Oarpenter, Joseph

Carlson, Charles Alfred

Kincaid, Elbert Sevier--3.

WITHDRAWN:

TUOLUMNE LODGE, No. 8.

Pike, Benjamin Franklin-1.

Sonora, Tuolumne County.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DURS:

Stated Muting1, Saturday of. or n~ preceding Full Moon.

Cunningham, Thomas

Calderwoo.d, Job Francif-2.
DIED:

Bronner, George Freilerick

\

Painter, Andrew Jackson

Willard, David Wright-3.

Paet Mastera 1

BENICIA LODGE, No. 5.
Benicia, Solano (lonnty.

Stated Meetings, .ftrn Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS•

Edwin Estey, Master,
Borte Allen Haines, Senior Deacon,
Richard Newmark, SenWI' Warden,
John Joseph Fahrenholtz, Junior Deacon,
.James Ambrose Smith, Mar1ha!,
Oharles Stewart, Junior Warden,
l Stewards
Allen Page Sanborn, Treasurer,
Charles King,
'
"Frederick Philip Weinmann, Seoretary, Daniel Chisholm, i
Samuel John Filer, Tyler.
Pa&t Masters :

Otis Kimball Freeman,
Thomas McKay,

J oho Frasier,
Edwin Estey,

Allan Page Sanborn,
Alvin Stone Parritt.

MASTER MASONS:

Bleoler, Emil
Billings, Elmore Myron
De Forest, J oho
Dinsmore, Lother
Flnoh, John Newman
Fox, William
Frame, Sidney
Hahn, Henry Caspar
Hearn, Joseph Henry
Johnson, Barney

JohDBOD, Joseph Green
Remington, James Kellogg
JohDBton, Simon
Roberts, William
KloRtrey, Thomas
Roel{er, John
Lepper, William Penn
Smith, Matthew John
McArthur, Murdock
Weetoby, Richard
McKenzle,James Buchanan Wettstein, Andrew
McKay, William
Will, Andrew Jackson
Morton, Elijah
Williams, Morgan
Moller, Konrad
Wilson, Andrew John-44.
Rankin, Simon George
ENTEREID APPRENTICE :

Atwood, Lewis Ohester-1.
WITBl>RAWN :

. Fergoson, Alex. Sanford

Smith, HWatson-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Oampbeil, John Robert
Chandler, Adolph
Catfrey, Edward Jamee

OFFICERS:

George Woodburn Nicol, Master,
Crittenden Hampton, Benic.,- Deacon,
William Glasson, Senior Warden,
William White Eastman, Junior Deacon,
Charles Henry B11rden, JunWI' Warden, Tryon Milton Yancey, Marshal,
T~omas Arthur Stiles Bender, Treasv.rer, John Lawson l
Thomas Washington Welle, Secretary,
Alonzo Colb;, f StewardB,
Abraham Barlow, Tyl8r.

Ohisholm, Angoe
Moore, Lewie William
Chisholm, Kenneth Henry Sharfenberger, John
D11rner, Oharles
Thompson, Geo. Henry-9.

Ieaac Newton McColloch, Edwin Aldrich Rodgers,
Tryon Milton Yancoy,
James Bell,
Edward Keil,
"William Giles Long,
James Francis Rooney,
William Davis Newton,
Frank Wilson Street,
Solomon Benae,
Winslow H11bbard,

Clarence Butler Hawley,
George Woodburn Nicol,
Everard Sharrock,
Eugene M11ller,
Henry Clay Calho11n.

MASTER MASONS :

Haskins, Joseph
Patterson, Archibald
Adame, Henry
Hender, Samuel John
Patterson, Geo.John H 11rd.
Amy, p1a11de Benoit
Penrose, Edward Rippon •
Anthony, David Ritchard Hill,.Francie Henderson
Inch, Richard
Peters, Joseph ·
Anthony; Edward Reese
J arvis,Leonard Fitz-Edward P into, Adolph
Aecha, George Franklin
Barter, George
Jenkins, Riobard
Preston, Boward Alvin
Barton, E11gene Hamilton Jenkins, William Henry
Priest, William Oadmns
Billings, Sam11el Moses
Johnson, Andrew Porter
Requa, Jamee Edgar
Brown, G11rdon
Jolly, John
Re11ter, G11etav Samuel
Callinan, William
Kahl, Leonard, Jr.
Riohey, Aylmor.
Ohnte, Richard
Keith, John Wilson
Ro11ee, John Alexander
Conrad, Frederick
Kenney, WilllamA11g11etW1 R11ndell, Robert Edward
Cowie, John
Sch11ler, Henry
Kirkwood, James
Darrow, William
Kn11deen, Nils Ladeproged Bharwood, William
Devoto, Henry Joseph
Kra11ee, Wilhelm
Shine, John Henry
Dick, Samuel
Lang, Charles Bdward
So11lsby, Benjamin
Dnchow, John Oharles
Stanley, Horace Martin
Leon, Samuel
Eslick, Charles
Loftus, Edward Clarence Stoker, Jacob Richard
Posterling, Louis
Lowery, Simeon
Street, Charles Edward
l'rancis, Robert
L11eignan, Francis
Tonkin, John Lee
F11chs, John
McKenzie, Donald
Torner, William Franklin
Foller, Munroe Jamee
Mead, Gilbert Livingston T11rner, William Lincoln
Fnnck, Samuel
Mitchell, Frederick Francie Vial, John
Gallnt, Victor
Morrison, John Ohambere Wellington, Henry
Gould; Elieha Tolman
Mundorf, John
West, John Henry
Gray, John Adams
Nicholas, Jonathan
West, Thomae Otho .
Guerena, Lo11is Alexander Oakes, William Con
Whitney, John C..orrin
Hale, George Webb
Parsons, Edmond
Witt, Thomas Jeft'e rson
,Harriman, Martin Buxton
- 110.

876

Returns of the Subordinate LOO{Jes

[Aug. I,

FELLOW CRAFT :

Fitch, Charles Scoville-L
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Pickle, John Bnghson-2.

Trittenbach, Albert
WITHDRAWN:

Bperaro, Angelo-I.

\

1896.]

To the Grand L<xlge of OaU/ornia.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

DIED:

J'lamp$on, Joseph Moore

877

llltchell, Henry Keller
P?ogally, Robert Wiley· Stanwood, Richard Go88
llyer, John Wesley
Pine, George Washington Strain, William J
Nelson, Niles Victor
Preecot~,George Wasbingt'nTapley, Joseph Franklin
Nelson, William Harvey
Traynor, Samuel O
Price, Charles John
Norlh, George
Weber, Henry Victor
Rneby, James Orion
Parker, Theodore Rosevelt RnBBell,Wilmer WorthlagtoaWeinlaader, Edward
Parmelee, James Edgar
Schroeder, Henry Christian White, John Oomyn-88.

Williams, John--2.

Barnes, 0.frna Anson

Wood, William Hilliard-3.

Coombs, Joseph Elden
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Dawe, Francis Edward

Naab, Emory Lagrange-2.
RESTORED:

Weber, Henry Victor-1.
WITHDRAWN:

CORINTHIAN LODGE, No. 9.
lllar7aT1lle, Yuba County.

Stated Meetings, fir.tt Tuesday in each month.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Ohattertoa, Harry Stewart
Killer, Herbert

Stalford, Jam es Henry

OFFICERS a

Barnard RoBB Boorman, Senior IJeacon,
Solomon Lewek, Mallter,
Oliver Otis Boward Campbell.Sen. Ward., Henry Frederick Bieber, Jumor IJeaoon,
William Thomas Phippe, Junior Warden, Oscar Leonidas Meek, Jllar8hal,
l Sw.tcarda,
Frederic Roberts,
Alexander Cameron Irwin, 7Teiuurer,
Frederick Henry Day, f
George Roberts Eckart, Secretary,
John George .McLellan, 'l'SJler.
Frank B Miller, Chaplain,

Pratt, George Albert-8.

Miller, Fred. Clark

Hall, Norman Walter

Weber, Henry Viotor-'l.

DIED:

Belcher, William Caldwe!l, P. G. .M.-l.

Pa•t Maaten:

William Caldwell Swain,
Norman Donning Rldeont,
Amasa Willey White,
Atkins Clark Bingham,
Meyer .A Marcnse,

William Flint Peacock,
Lemuel Trescott Crane,
Francie W. Howard Aaron, William Andrew Lowery,
John George .McLellao,
Henry Charles Lott,
Frank B · Miller.
Alex. Cameron Irwin,
MASTER MASO>l8 :

. Greeley, J. Wellington
Ohase, TbOllJllS
Abbott, Alex. Franklin
Gwynn, William
.Anthony, Charles Volney Cohn, Isaac Gi.balle
Hampton, Charles Cecil
Collier, George
Armer, Max
Hochstadter, Adolph
Cooley, Allen
Baird, George Hall
Hochstadter, Simon
Crook, Fred Austin
Baker, Rebert Jamee
Holland, George
Dougall, Thomas
Barrie, John Fergoson
Hadson, Edward Beary
Belcher, Edward Aogostns Eckart, Marcos Alger
Hunter, William
Edeler, Jamee Otto
Belcher, Isaac Sawyer
Jenkins, George Lindley
Ellis, William Torner
Bernstein, Max
Kaufman, Jacob
Berry, Jamee :McConnell Euler, Adam
Keleer, Christian Chrietop'r
Falrcloogb, James
Bomatter, Charles
Knight, David Edgar
Fetro•, David Ernest
Brain, James
Koshy, Augostns Emil
Fi~Jd, Stephen Johnson
Borroughs, William Cart
Forbes, Ed win Alexander Marcose, Marcos
Bora er, Henry
Mayer, Chrisiopher
Bottlem&a, Frederick Wm. Goodwin, Hannibal

SAN JOSE LODGE. No. 10.
San JoH, Santa Clara Collnty.

Stated Mutinga, jir8t Monday i1i each m011th.
OFFICERSr

.Ernest Woodbnry Conant, Meuler,
Elton Ream Bailey, Senior Warden,
Albert King Whitton, Junior Warden,
Edward Ham Gnppy, Tr11a11Urer,
lfllton Amos Boalware, Secretary,
William Samoel Jordan, Ohaplain,

Edward Robert Bath, Sentor IJeaaon,
Frank Chae. Henry M:cKiernan, J. Deacon,
Clarence Haydock, MaraT>al,
Ro bert Clay Woods, l SttiUJards
'
George Baldazar May, f
Fred Sanford Coftln, 7'!,tler.

Paet llla•ten r

William Alex. Janaary,
Samuel Watson Boring,
Henry Olp \Veller,
Orrin Fr&ncie Mann,
1Vllbqr Jaatus Wilcox,
Tyler Beach,
1'!1100 Hayes,
J oho Plaskett Jarman,
Alonzo Bobbitt Hamilton,

Olarence Haydock,
Jacob Lambert Asay,
Ralph Lowe,
Ernest Woodbury Cooant.

878

ges
. Relurn11 of the Sui>ordinate Lod

l896.J

[Aug. 1,

Skow, Hans Christian
Sonthworth, Malek Adhel
Squire, Pan! Edwin
Ster ne, Harry Raymond
Taylor, William Stew art
Titos, Francis John
Tompkins, Samnel George

MAllTER MASONS :

Livingston, William
Donahoe, Fran k Leslie
Adel, Wilmer Thomas
Mann, Oharles William
ry
Hen
iam
Will
es,
Dyn
Agnew, Hen ry Jose ph
Mason, Pan!
0
k
Ensign, Fran
Anderson, John Alden
Mathews, Samoel George
Thompson
e
Reec
s,
Evan
ns
guil
Znin
Anderson, John
losk ey, Thomas
Mcc
Ewing, John Newton
Anderson, Philip
ton McDonald, Archibal~
hing
Was
rge
Geo
Fee,
Appleton, lit.orris
McKenzie, Roderick
Fike s, Hen ry J
Ayer, Fran k Milton
orty, William Shar pe
McM
e
Finigan, Lawrenc
Ayer, Samoel Freeman
n, Jose ph Traill
dleto
Mid
~'lagg, Edwin Clar ence
Bailey, Calvin Port er
Minor, Pete r Overton
ler
Shid
John
ler,
Fow
Bailey, Daniel Oopps
Moore, Fred Wal ter
Fran zen, Andrew
Bailey, Willard Chapin
Morehouse, Henry Vincent
ns
Neg
ee, Irvin
Ballon, John Qalncy Adams Fras
lton,Stillman Angustns
Mon
es
Gasset, John Eam
Baltz, Pete r
hall, Sylv este r
New
ch, John Sowden
is
Barb er, Lawrence Evans Gea
David Nickerson, Franklill Lew
stian
Chri
z,
ewit
Glad
Barnhisel, Lewis
Maurice
ien,
O'Br
ard
Edw
rett
Eve
Gummer,
Barnum, John Star r
O'H anlo n, Rob ert Terr ence
Ouppy, Edward Samoel
Bart hel, Fran klin Keifer
der, Carl Ferdinand
Olin
er
Bagedon, Cha rles Luth
Bart le, John
Ownby, Thomas Powell
ard
Edw
John
,
Hale
Bean, George Albert
Pag e, Geo rge William
Halliday, Jose ph Sorby
Beans, Thomas Ellard
Paps on, William
ry
Wer
as
Hambly, Thom
e
Beasley, William Arthur
Waldron Park , Clem ent .Theodor
ene
Eug
son,
Han
es
Jam
k
Fran
Bec kett, Lemuel
iam
Will
lee,
Peas
Han son, Geo rge War ren
Bee, Samuel Rob ert
er, William Ratt ray
Harb eck; Theo . Martin Wm. Pend
.
Biddle, Noble T
Oalvin Wheeler
y,
Perc
sels
Wes
John
ein,
enst
Biggs, Marshall Alexander Harr
s John
Loui
,
Pfan
Harris, Hen ry
Blnmentbal, Mar x
rge Pozzo, Francisco
Geo
iam
Will
ley,
Haw
phns
Boring, Flavins Jose
Prie st, Richard Torner
Hen ry, Jam es Harrison
Boschken, Jaco b
ey, Jose ph Wesley
Rain
es
Jam
itt,
Hew
Bowden, John Henry
, Elliott
Reed
ne
Anto
stra, Sake
Brac kett, Jeth ro Nat. Broce Hof
Reed, War ren De Witt
rge
Geo
n,
Hon
Bray, George
Reynolds, Geo . Washington
ek, Riobard Asa
Breyfogle, William Osmond Hay
Rice, Charles War ren
ry
Hen
ael
lllioh
nd,
Byla
Caldwell, Samnel Bryant
, Jnds on
Rice
nio
An~
e,
Inoa gnon
Cameron, William
, Jaco b
Rich
e
Pric
Ingr am, Ster ling
Cap t, Gnstave
Rioh, Samuel Herm an
Hodge
rles
Cha
ee,
Jam
Cash, Albert B
Richards, Benj. Franklin
Jens en, Rob ert
Castle, Isaac Newton
Righ ter, Fran cis Marion
nd
Lela
ph
Jose
us,
Kalf
Oastle, Neville Bart
Riley, Thomas Jeft'erson
.
P
.
Geo
st'n
Ohri
Kan tlehn er,
Olark, Charles
Rinaldo, David
lee
Kirc her, John Char
Clifton, Henry
Robins, Charles Edwin
Smith
r
ande
Alex
x,
Kno
Costa, Charles John
ley,. Albanns Bellger
Row
b
Jaco
lph
Ado
h,
Koc
Conlidk, Charles William
Jam es Tolliver
ker,
Roc
John
e
Loni
en,
Latb wee
Craw, John Palmer
Samuel Newton
ker,
Roc
h, William
Crossman, Wal ter Eve rett Leac
n, Edward Wavell
erso
Sand
Ledyard, Francis King
Crow, Richard
l, Henry Leonhard
mme
Sche
Leigh, Hngh Alexander
Crowell, Martin Luth er
itz, Chas. Hieronymns
Schn
e
Loni
,
berg
Leno
Daile.Jl, Morris Elmer
on, William
Lenzen, Tbeodor41 William Sext
Davie, Thomas Haines
Shaw, Jose ph Nathan
Ringgold
ph
Jose
ie,
Lew
am
Davy, John Willi
Simpson, William
Lion, Lazar
Day, Jam es Collins
Skillioorn, George Edwar.l
ie
Arch
ett,
Lips
Dennis, John Sonleby

rnia.
To the Grand ~dge of Oalifo

879

Topham, Edward
:~lco.x, Harr y Warren
Tatt le, Hira m Daniel
ey, Benry Lee
Will
Valpey, Oalvin Jr
lllonghby • M a tth ew
• k·
' Hop
Wagen er, Samuel
shall
IDs Wo~eter, Clarence Mar
Wetmore, Alson L
Henry Ward
ht,
Wrig
nst
Ang
es
Jam
White,
08
Wya tt, Jam eeB ellm an-1 96.
·
Wight, David
FEL LOW ORA FT:

Scot t, Benjamin Fran klin -I.
ENT ERE D APP REN TICE S •

•

•
Fren ch, William Hen ry-2 .

Andereon, George How ard
RES TOR ED:

Lenoberg, Lon ie-I.
SUS PEN DED FO.R NON-PAY

Allison, William De Witt
Bettinger, Jae.ob
Britton, William
calb"IC k , Albert Edw ard
Denne, George ·
t
1
Field Arth or G"lb
er
'

ME

NT OF DUES :
M
Gree1JntlelLd, Alex. Clarke
aio, Harrison Henry
Ing
Owens, John B
a s, nthe r Borr
p
Jane s, Loth er F
1ommer, Jabe z Obester
J h
Shea rer, Pao! Morphy
ry
Hen
Ko neon, Cha rles
Tillotson, Har lan- Ir.
elley, William
Lanrilliard, Henry
DIE D:

Olayton, Jam ee Atkinson

Cory, Benja1Dln-2.

YO UN T LO DG E, No. 12.
Nap a, Nap a Cou nt7.

Stated Meetinga, Satu rda y of or

nezt .,.. •.3. ..f'n ull Moon.
r· 'eC<K.J,ing

OFF ICE Ris1

Ha.x J Crow, Mai ler
J~mes Edg ar Beard, Senior IJeaorm
W.
George Waehington Strobl Sen
ow, Junior IJe~n
·wa:'::::' :t.l'1 ;mh J.amesnLind
'
::rci val Simpson King, J,;nior
Hottel, Marshal
mgto
as
'
r
eure
,
J
ll'ard Derrel Beard 7rea
Jord an
ray
Mnr
Fred
•
ret
81.ewarda,
Isaac George Herr on 'Sec
William Angostin B:ile
ary,
'
y,
Amos Smith Knapp, 1}.tler.
Henry Hay Knapp
William Brad t Oariton
'
William Bradford
Finis Ewing Jobn~on

.

P•'8 tllJ" aste re 1

Andrew Jack son Holl
Fred erick N Giles, '
Jam ee Bannty Stevens,P.G•.M. '
Nelson Marble,

Daniel Sterling Kyser,
11£a.x J Crow
John Tiokell.'

880

Returns ef the Subordinate Lodges

(Aug. 1,

1896,]

To the Grand Lotig_e. ef California.

MASTER MABONll •

Goodman, Geo. Edmoud,Jr. Miller, Francie Asbury
Amstutz, Henry Louie
Gregory, Charles McOlooa Moody, Joha Newton
Blauk, Arthur Scott
Moser, Christian ·
Grigsby, Achilles Fine
Briggs, oebra
Grigsby,Alphoneo Lafayette Mothersole, Thomae
Bonsall, Edward
Grossman, Ad'lph'e Herm'u O'Garra, Michael
Boetelll, Gottardo
Pinkham, George Grafton
Gwynu, William, Jr.
Baokuum, Daniel
Plaes, Phillip
Haas, David Leopold
Butters, Augue
Priest, Joshua James
Harker, Oharles Samuer
Caiu, Johu Alexander
Hatoh, Fred'k Winslow, Jr. Richie, Mathe"" G
Obalmers, John Howard
Robertson, William Ball
Clifford, George Boardman Hawkes, John .
Robinson, Joseph Lilbarn
'Hoadley, Horace Jamee
Ooates, Frank
Shurtleff, Beujamla \
Holden, Samael Emery
Coheu, Morris
Sterling, Robert Henry
Conrad
Henry
er,
Horstmey
•
Henry
Davie, Morrow
Stewart, Robert
Howell, Joseph
De Bonie, Gaieeppe
Stratton, William, Jr.
Howland, John Smith
Dennis, John
Swift, John Jaokeou
Hunter, William
Derry, Thomae
Taylor, Robert Francis
Daulap, David Anderson Kuudeeu, .Andrew
Trubody,William A.lexaudei'
Loug, Reuben
Elles, Theodore
Wheeler, Cho. Washington
Man&BBe, Emanuel
Epley, Thomae Henry
Wichels, Johann Diedrich
Martlu, Thomae Maroc;m
Finnell, John
Wilkins, Benjamin Sidney
Marx, Ferdinand Fritz
Fowler, Henry
Williams, Fred Waldo
Mason, Jamee
Gardner, Aldeu Monroe
Gardner, Jamee Buchaunau McClellaud, Joseph AleL Wood, Nathaniel Henry
-90.
Garwood, Charles Marvin M.cCollnm, William John Zollner, John Frederick
FELLOW ORAFTB :

Rill, George Wesley

Duhig, Jamee

Mellor, Joseph Albert-3.

ENTERED APPRENTIOF.I! :

Finnell, Williamson ·

Robinson, Thomae Alexande r

Sa11dereou, Robert-3 .

wrµa>BA WN;

DIED:

Gorton, Barton Hezekiah -1.

Knapp, Samuel Skinner-1 .

NEVADA LODGE , No, 13.
Nevada, Nevada County.

Thomas Porter Hawley,
Wllliam Cooper Randolph,
Thomas Hubbard Caswell,
J ohu Caldwell,
Iautbis Jerome Rolfe,

Paet Masters 1
Edward Myers Preston
David Eddy Morgaa, '
Chris. Oour'd Weiseubnrger,
John Thomae Jil:orgau,
William Barker,

Thomas Benton Gray
'
Carl Loals Muller
Fraukllu Ennis, '
Niles Searls, ·
Sanford Orrin Pease.

MABTEB MASONS:

Ashburn, Hans Arent
Hale, Horace
Pariui, Daniel
Asbtou, David
Hall, Benjamin
Emanuel
Pascoe,
Henry
Barlow, William
Hill, Charles Wilson
Pioletti, John Baptiste
H 11
Barton, William
Lafayette
Jacob
o and,
Plammer, Richard
Bernardo, Manne! Joseph ·Holmes, William
Preston, Myers Albert
.
R
H
Hoskin
Jamee
,
Beunallack
s, eury abhn
Rich, DJLniel Alexander
Brown, Walter 8
Hoskins, William W
Richards, David
Buftl~gton, John Mason,Jr. Hughes, George Lovett
Richards, William Gilbert
Hughes, Thomas T
urrmgton, Albert
Richards, William Stevens
.Meuzo
Robert
Hout,
Casper~ KaskJI
Roberts, Mark L
Kendrick C I"10
Ohegw1ddeu, James
Robinson, George Ed.ward
k
J
•
Lo
Kendrick'
Clark, Albert
, ev1 ac son
. . Presto11
Rowe, William
01emo, Wilham
Kitts, James
Searls, Fred
Charles
or,
Kliugensp
Oohn, O~sper
Shaw, George Crawford
J.ee, James Henry
Craig, Michael Francis
Biddies, Milan Buchard
Jacob
Levy,
Cross, Charles Wesley
Stenger, Heury Augastas
Locklin, James
Curnow, Robert
. t opher R enry Stenger, loseph Floyd
Delbridge, Abel Nicholas Mallen • Ohns
Sukeforth, Elisha Gurney
DougIas, Harry Lee
.Marsh, Daniel
Tell4m, Frederick
.Meuzo
John
Marsh,
Douglas, Norval
Thomas, Joseph
,...ar t"ID Lnther
Marsh, .....
Drnuzer, Peter
. .
Ed win
Tilley,
Duryea, Wilham Henry
Marsh , Sh erman Ward
Tompkins , Edward Alex.
Eagye, Elzever
.Martlu, William Henr
Tompkins, Elijah Obediah
Y
McBean, Johu
Eddy, Charles Henry
Alonzo Douglas
Tower,
Thomae
John
McCall,
Eddy, Samuel Joues
Richard
Tremain,
Edwards, Edward Samuel .McCntchau, Robert Given Trtimaiu, Richard John
MoElvy Cb I
Evans, John
Turner, George Edward
ares
. '
Faull, George Henr
Medlin, Frederick William Turner, Robert Haviland
Y
.
Pl
Thomas
.Mein
t
Davenpor
emlng, Joseph
Veal, William Henry
.M '
Floyd, William
eservey, Eugene Boyd
F 1
Nicholas
Weber,
Mitten, J ohu
o eue, Au tone
Welse.nborger, Conrad
Fairfield
John
Morrie,
Savory
Thomae
Ford,
White, James O
Nivens Archibald J
O~ylord, George Cook
W~lson, Andrew Boyd
' r.
' Th
Od
Giles, Timothy
gers, omas
.
G
W1semau, William Heury
Pare, Ci.mille Alfred
lllesp'.e• Robert
Wright, William-J 29.
Goodwrn, Jeremiah Samuel

B

FELLoW CRAFT :

Stated .Meetings, second Wednesday in each m0nth.

Baruzzl, Emile-1.

OFFICER 81

Thomae Palamonn ter, Senior Deacon,
Carl Louie Muller, Malter,
William Edmnud Meservey, Sen. Ward., Charles Heury Oonley, Junior Deacon,
Erastus Barnum Power, Junior Warden, David Eddy Morgan, Marahal,
l Stewarda,
Archibald Nivens,
Edward Myers Preston, Treamrer ,
.
William Heury Kistle, f
Iantbis Jerome Rolfe, Secretary,
Antonio Tam, 7}/ler.

881

SUSPENDE D FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

BArrett, Charles Augustus Hampton, Elisha
Preble, Lucius William
Bridges, Edward ~avid
Oammet, Frauk Lrnooln

•
Ti:tl'auy, Archibald Jasper
Wbitiug, Silas Osoro-7.

DIED:

Bart, John Wesley

22

Hocking, John

St-0ddard, Orlaudo-3 .

882

Reiurns of the Subordiante Lodges

[A:ug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand· Lodge of Oaliforn\a.

883

Past Masters 1

TEMPLE LODGE, No. 14.
Sono1na. sono1na County.

Charles John Hellwig,
Johll Matbie.s Folweiler,
Robjlrt Fleming Rooney,

Michael David Lininger,
Jacob He.rt Neff,
Henry Disque,

Alltn, George
Bafter, William
Bir~sall, Fred Wheeler
Bo,gs, John Craig
F11pble, Jobn
Grphs, Frederick Peter
Bonchin, William Hiram
Kllene., James
Ifonyon, Byron

Lathrop, Lee N

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:r:t preceding Full Moon .....

MASTER MASONS :

OFFICERS:

Albert William Weaver, Master,
John Davis Wagnon, Senior Warden,
Frank Weaver, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - , Trea11Urer,
Jesse Borris, Secretary,
- - - - - - , Ohap!ain,

Randolph Jobn Oorbet, Senior Deacon,
Robert Horace Hurlbert, Junior DeaaoA,
Robert Potter Hill, .Jlarshal,
Gustave Henry Katz, l Stewards,
Henry Wey!,
f
Montgomery Paxton Akers, Tyler.

P aat Mastera :

Willis Catlet Goodman,
Robert Albion Poppe,

Robert Potter Hill.

Jesse Borris,
Fred Longworth Olark,

Smith, John Lawrence

MacL~nne.n,Malcome Cam'I Snowden, Edmond Ohristp'r

Martin, Peter Daniel
Martin, Samuel
Millikan, Francis Marion
Ormsby, Henry
Quire, Joseph Spencer
Rice, James Edmond
Richards, James

Starbnck, John Boardman
Thomas, George
Todd, Thomas Milton
White, John Miles
Wiley, Morris Brickback
Wilkins, William
Wright, Edwin Forest-46.

WITHDRAWN:

Coffman, Alfred BonhaIQ.-1.

MASTER MASONS:

Akers, Stephen
Box, James Allen
Borns, James
Callaway, David
Ohaovet, J oshoa
Crooks, William Lowell
Cotter, Ephraim Pierce
Davis, Hugh Hamill
Erskine, Thomas Edward
Geary, William Logan

John Goold Bisbee,
Henry Crittenden Oortia,
John McOann.

Harris, Granville Swift
Revie, J oho Craig
Hart, Ezra Blair
Schocken, Solomon
Hartin, Henry
Searcy, William Franklin
Johannsen, Lod'g Matthias Shaw, Oliver Barrett
King, John Jay
Shaw, Sylvaoos Harvey
Lltzios, Geo. Heinrich Lod'g Sparks, George Washingtbn
MacPhee, Douglas Alex. Still, William
Ma.noel, David 1
Stofen, Peter Nicolas
McConnell, William Ellit Thompson, Peter Henry

-d.

DIED:

Crutcher, William McDowell

Mee.rs, Josiah

Miner, John Me.cklin-3.

FELLOW CRAFT:

LOGE LA PARFAITE UNION, No. 17.

Agnew, Samuel Jasper-1.

San Franclaco, San Franclsoo County.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Lonergan, James

Halloran, Edward

Witham, George Franklin

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

RESTOBED:

Spencer, George-1.

King, John Jay-1.
DIED:

McHarvey, Charles-2,

Bihler, William

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.

--3 •.

OFFICERS1

Jean Marie Dopas, Master,
Edward Lafayette Wagner, Sen. JJeaoon,
Ame.nd Xe.vier Decoortieox, Sen. Warden, Pe.seal Bellege.rde, Ju'Aior Beacon,
Antoine Leon Aore.doo, Junior Warden, Eugene Robinet, Marshal,
l Stew rda
Amand Decoortieox, '.&easurer,
Michel Henri Diebold,
Armand. Leme.rdele.y, Secretary,
Eve.riste Camille Mailheboan, f
a '
Auguste Goostie.ux, Ohaplain,
Frederic Le.grange, 'l'yl.er.
Past Masters :

EUREKA LODGE, No. 16.
Aubnrn. Placer County.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or ne:r:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Jonathan Fnlton, Maetsr,
William Isaac May, Senior Deacon,
John Carleton Woodward, Ben. Warden; ·Alexander Kelly Robinson, Jun. Beacon,
William Albert Crowell, Junior Warden, John Goold Bisbee, Marahal,
David Wlademer Lubeck, '.&ea11Urer,
Edward Doyle Brown, l Steward•,
William Branson Lardner, Secretary,
John Coleman Salford, f
John Chisholm, Ohap!atn,
Gerra Breton Predmore, Tyl.er.

Fram;ois Pierre Masson,
Dominique Germain Lucien,
Emmanuel Re.as,

Daniel Levy,
.Auguste Gooetie.ox,
Emme.noel Meyer,

Victor Ge.rdet,
Justin Ladagnoos,
Charles Ashton.

MASTER MASONS :

Aadrieo,Clore.ndin ]i'ran9ois Bergerat, Louis
Artigoes, Joseph Emile
Bergez, Jean
Astorg, Alphonse
Berton, George Abel
Anre.doo, Joles
Blaser, Jean Ohristie.n
Be.bin, Demas Colin
Block, Felix
B&rbler, Joseph Prod11nt
Blom, Jacques

Blom, Lbon
Boisson, Francis
Bootieller, T.oois Auguste
Brttggemann, Henri
Ce.ntel, Louis
Carpy, Charles

884

Returns of the Subordinate Lodgu

[Aug. 1,

Cattet, Aogoete Pan!
Gnyot, Emile Dllslr6 A.
Ortlon, Emile Jos. Victor
Chaignean, Alfred
Hallgarteo, Benoit
Pot~t. Alphonse
Chevannler, Armand
Kaplan, Hyman Henry
Proo, Jean Aognete
Clil.vAre, Jean Pierre
Lame, Loni• ·
Reiss, Bernard
Cooey, Alexander K
Lebatard, Miohel
Revert, Alphonse
Cnenin, Ildefonse
Lemoine, Emile Angoste
Roeckel, Joeeph Gulllaume
Dazet, Jean Baptiijte
Lenormand, Lllon
Roo", Adolphe (lst)
Desenfaot, Pan! Joles
Letroadec, Jnlien
Roos, Adolphe (2d)
Dimmer, Nicolas
Levy, Joseph
Roosseao, Oharles
Donet, A.odr6
Levy, Joles
8alomoo, Sylvain
Drain, Armand Cresar
Levy, Lonie Abraham
Seell, Gaspard
Drayeor, Anguste Constant Levy, Max
Seibel, Frederiqoe
Eisenberg, Adolphe
Lille, Charles
Sgier, Jean Joseph
Eisner, Daniel
Lipman, Isidore
Siegel, Moses
Fanre, Emile
Lobe, Anatole
Somps, Pierre G.
Franck, Isidore
Long, Clande
St. Denis, Joles de
Fochs, Martill
Loopy, J ean
St. Jolllen, Pan! de
Geantlt, Alphonse
Loupy, Noel Pan!
Vermeli, Jean Louis
Godchaox, Edmond
Marchebont, Victor
Vi.Ullgla, Lllopold
Godchanx, Lazard
Mooe:r, William
Weill, Raphalli
Goldaracena, Orel Martin Nenbnrger, Gnstave
Weill, Sylvain
Guittard, Etienne
Ortlon, Auguste Jos. Victor Willard, Lllon-105.
FELLOW CRAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

.•Roncovieri, Joseph Lonie Alrred-1.

Ayhene, Pao! Joaeph-1 •

1896.J

To the Grand Lod,ge of California.
Paat Maeter• r

Benjamin Paniy,
David Livingston Whitney,
Robert Forbee,

Tait, Dudley Frederick

James Brown Crooke,
Alemby Jnmp,
John Burman,

Stanley Andrew Smith,
Frank Rumrill Webe.

MASTER MASONS :

.!lexander, James Ramsey Bnnnicnt, Ezra
Soward, Frank David
Barrett, John Miles
McGnire, Andrew John
Stewart, Samuel Curtis
Bernhardt, Louis
Meyer, Henry Herman
Treat, Charles l.ewis
Corbett, David
Pires, Man'! Silveria Soares Thom.as, Henry
Davidson, Samnel Bates
Ryan, William
Weil , John Joseph
Ford, Tirey Le. Fayette
!>cott, John
Wilson, Oharies Martin
Gallige.n, Be.rney
Shafer, Sheldon Woodruff Yoong, George-36.
Bongh, Joseph Zephaniah
DIED:

Rogers, Jacob.Rankin

John1on, James A.- 2.

SAN JOAQUIN. LODGE, No. 19.
Stoddon, San .foaqaln Coanty.

WITHDRAWN:

Simon, Arthur Joles

885

Tait, William Oave-3.

Staf&l Meeting11, Monday of or nezt preuding Full Moon.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES;

OFFICERSr

Pllrlle, Lo~-1.

Adelbert William Davidson, Malter,
Arthnr Leonard Levinsky, Sen. Deacon,
Hermann Conrad Bargmann,Sen. Warden, Ise.ac James Mayes, Junfor Deacon,
William Henry Keyes, Junior Warden, AJfred George Payne, Marshal,
Charles Moses Je.ckson, 1i'eaaurer,
Michael Finnell, t 8
d
1
.Joseph William Cavis, Seoretary,
James Pattarga, f ewar B,
Hermann Janeen Bergmann,_7.'J/ler.

DIED:

Breese, Lonie

Deville, Jean-8.

Cnenin, Francis

MOUNTAIN SHADE LODGE, No. 18.
Downleville, Sierra Coanty,

Paet Maater• 1
Gilbert Burnett Claiborne,P.61.M. Minard Spragne Thresher, Richard Thomas Ee.rle,
Sidney Newell,
Samnel Mosley Woods,
Frank Erwin Darby,
Wiiiiam Abre.ham Davies, P.Gl.M. Sylvanns G. S. Dnnbar,
Obas. Moses Jackson,
.!iexander Chalmers,
·
Joseph William Ce.vis,
lse.e.c Henry Robinson.
Sargent Smith Littlehale,
MASTER MASONS :

Stakd Meetings, 'IUesday of O'T' nezt preuding Full Moon.
· OFFICERS•

Stanley A. Smith, Senior Deacon,
Frank Romrill Wehe, Master,
Adolph Joseph Meroux, Senior Warden, Henry Herman Meyers, Junior Deaoon,
John Burman, Marsh.al,
Aden Denmire, Junior Warden,
Robert Forbes: l Stewarda,
John Costa, 7i-ea.surer,
Henry Spauldmg, f
Henry Hadden Purdy, Secretary,
Valentine Hartling, Tyler.
Frank David Soward, (}haplain,

•

Belding, Charles
Davis, Sylvester Byron
Bonney, Oharles Sumner
De Vries, Willie.m Garland
Bulson, Herman R
Eldridge, Edward Duane
Caine, John
Fraser, Philip Barry
~Jialmers, Peter J obn
Gaines, Francis Albert
•••tnotwood, Wm. He.rtz'i Ge.rwood, John
Cobb, Frank Dyckman
Goodell, George
Cottrell, William
Hae.a, Jerome
Valver, Gilbert Caleb
Haven, Henry

•

Henderson, Robert William
Henery, Samnel
Rnrd, Coinmbus
Jackson, John
Jeffries, Howe.rd Barthol'w
Johnson, Peter
Kenniston, Charles·Morrill
Kitchner, Samuel Amery
Klench, De.niei Lewis

886

Returns of the Stibordinale LodgeJJ

[Aug. 1,

Smith, Frank Hartford
Payne, David Rolland
Longwith, Frank
Smith, Jamee Wion
Peters, Joseph])
Lorenz, William Henry
Smith, Richard Rossell
Petray, Henry Calvin
Loud, Alexander John
Snell, George Beiomao
Phelps, Joseph La Rose
Lynch, Willie
Spellman, Daniel Joseph
Reeve, Frederick .
Lyon, James William·
Richards, William Henry Sperry, George Barker
Mays, William Henry
Spurrier, Sherman .Merriam
McLaren, Archibald Jamee Ritt.er, Carlton M
Stewart, Jamee Alpheos
.McLaren, Colin Cameron Roche, Peter Frank
Stone, William Henry
McLaren, J oho Oameron Roseman, Ferdinand
Swain, John Anderson
McLaren, William Doncao Ruggles, John Everett
Taylor, Cllarlee Edwin
Baogolnettl, Dominic
M.eioecke, Frederick
Taylor, Hugh Woodruff
Sheehan, William David
· Needham, Harry Borr
Shepard, William Thomae Todd, Fr11ocis Walton
Oates, William Wallace
Simpson, William McPayoe White, William Oharles
Oberdeener, George
White, Kellogg Albert
Siok, Reuben Henry
O'Brien, John Henry
Wood, Charlee-~7.
Paitersoo,A.lex.VaoReoo11'rSmith, Arthur David
FELLOW CRAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

.McLeod, John H.-1.

Johnson, William Ruseell-1•

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge .o f OaJ,ifornia.

Crouch, Eugene Ackley
Menken, Peter lleinrich
Heilbron, Adolphe
Crouch, Harrison Rhodes Hoag, William .Moffet
Miller, John Henry
Dolan, John Henry
Moore, George Alden
Hurley, John
Elkoe, Louis
Johnson, Hiram Warren (l} Nathan, Henry Michael
Gardner, Charles Francie Johnson, Hiram Warren (2} Nathan, Samuel
Gillie, Dugald Hall
Johnston, Jamee Waverley Neal, Charles Arthur
Greer, Erskine
Kiesel, Frederick William Ochsner, John
Halsey, David Crane
Pacheco, Romualdo
Kolliker, Frederick
Hall, Thomae Bertram
Shaw, Joseph
Lond, John Peter
Hamilton, William Brown Madden, Jerome
Wachhorst, Herman
Harbison, John S
Willey, Wm. Henry Harrison
McKee, Edwin Hervey
Hukell, Dudley Haines
.McKinnon, John Jenkins Wright, Charles Edward
Hayford, Clarence Ralston
-73.
ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

Hamilton, Edward Raodolph-1.
.FELLOW CRAFTS:

Hanchett, Lewie Edward-2.

Borgese, George Washington
DIED:

DIED:

Graham, William

887

Rutledge, Rober~l.

Prugh, Winfield Webster
-S.

Levinsky, John .

WASHINGTON LODGE, No. 20.
SacraDlento, Sacramento Vonnty.

Stated Meetings, first Tlr.uraday in each month.

HAWAIIAN LODGE, No. 21.
Honolnla, Hawaiian Ialand8.

Stated Meeting•, jirat Monday in each month.

OFFIVERS1

Presley Beauregard Johnson, S. Deaoon,
Oharles Heieeo, Jr., Ma8ter,
Phillip·Johuson, Junior .Deacon,
. Harry .Mills Butler, Senior Warden,
George Ernest Ebert, Marshal,
VJctor Jamee Tolley, Junior Warden,
G.llorge Murray, Trea5Urer,
Ellsworth Fred. Duden, l Stewards,
r
John Soott,
Edwin Glover, ~euretary,
Elias Rath, 7\iler.

OFFJVER1ij1

Joseph .Musgrave Little Senior Deacon
Mose Edmund Groseman, Maater,
'
Archibald Forrest Gilfillan, Sen. Warden, .Mannie Phillips, JuniO:. Deacon,
Charles Bryant Cooper, Marshal,
Robert Catton, Junior Warden,
John. Walter Jones,}
- - - , Treaaurer,
Theodore Ouoningham Porter, Secretary, John Smith Walker, Stewards,
Halvor .Mhyre, 7},tler.
Alexander llla.ckiotoeh, Ohaplain,

Pemt Maater• 1

Nathaniel Greene Curtie,P.G.M.,
Edwin Glover,
John Nelles Young,
William Emil Gerber,

William Cochrane,
William Alfred Potter,
Remos Upton Gay,
Oharles Eben Flye,

William Waldo .Marvin,
Preston Lodwick Lykins,
Frank Taylor Johnson,
George Ernest Ebert.

Pan lllaaterat

Wllllam Feseenden Allen,
John Adair Hll88inger,
.Alexander Mackintosh,
George Everett Ho.ve,

Theo're Cunningham Porter, Andrew Brown,
James .Melville Monearrat,
John Harris Soper,
Wllliam Montrose Graham,
William Henry Cornwell.

.A1hley, William George
Be.roes, Albert
~tohelor, Job
lleckley, George Charles
jloudman, George Edgar

Bromley, Walter Hall
Bohm, William Siegfried
Brown, George Watson
Boyd, James Harbottle
Burmleton, Harry Jamee
Boyd, William Wright
Braddick, Oeoar Brampfield Brune, John Henry
Bretteville, A. O. E. le N. de Campbell, Charles Jerome

MASTER MASONS :

Bockrath, Herman Henry
.Ackerman, Albert
Booth, Albert Porch
.Adams, Oharlee Edward
Ashworth, Edward ~'!etcher Brenner, John
Breuner, Lonie Frede1·lck
Avery, Ira
Burnham, Charles Edward
Block, .Maurice

MASTER MAt!ONS:

Busch, John
Butler, Bteµhen William
Clarke, George Little
Cluule, Thomas Jefferson
Cob~, .Aloysius Sylvester

•

888

R,et,urns of the Subordinate Lodge,s

[Ang;· 1,

Th
Edward Schaefer' Frederick Aogost
Campbell, Thomas
Kroose, . omas
Schlemmer, Maxmillian
'b ld Scott Langehem, Ernst
. git
Cleghorn, Arc h1 •
L .
Theo Frelinghs'n Scringeoar·, A 11an Brig
Conant, Elmer Ellsworth
Lan~ingEdga.r ~onia
Searle, John Cooper
ewie,
Sh h
Daniel Henry
Crabble, Olarence Linden Linder
Axel Ferdinand
a an,
.
Oummings, Jae. Henry, Jr. .
' Adam
Smith, David Bowers
Day, Francie Robert
Lindsay,
s
'th Frederic Carlo&
Lishman, Thomas Walker
mi •
Eaton, William Lewis
.
Smith, Thomas
,....
Tan
Lonieson,
Morns
.
1.
Graham
~ckart, .w.axm11
William Franois
Smith, W1 ham
English, Henry
Love,· .
.
Smithies John Samnel
Q,.,art, George Robert
Lncas, Pierre Marie
d" ' Edward Irwin
"'"
M b John Henry
Spa! mg,
Fair, Jamee Funk
a.y e,
d
Stolz Frederico Leopold
Farnsworth, John
MoGregor, Alexan er
' Ed
d
Mcintyre, Hugh Edward Strehz,
war es
Fitzgerald, John
M Clellan, James
Sntherland, Jam
Foster, William Edward
c
Tripp Alfred Newton
Gitfard, Walter Montaiee Melanphy, John
Tnrn:r, Lewis Farrant
Morrison, Bogh
y 1
Lllve Moller
Go odale, Warren
N
Panl
et esen,
Goodale, Wm. Whittemore N:::ann~·Edwin Rodney Wade, Elmer Ellsw~rth
Goodman, Frank
J l'os
Waggoner, Grant Sidney
Gray, George
Nolte, Henry 0 1
Wall Charles Frederick
Oa\
Joseph
:Morton
•
Gregory, James
'
Wall Thomas Edwar d
Hammer, Oharles
Parker, Samue1
Wall~ce Kenneth Robert G.
Paty John Henry
'
B&rrison, Arthor
Patt~n, Harold Vaughn
Weight, William .
Harri~oo, John Henry
p
ck Corbet Alfred
Wentworth, H&rrie Barnes
Heilbron, William
Peha~o 8 Casper Fitting
West, Gideon
Hewitt, George Olioton
eP'
Wh"t
1
1 e, w·mam
Poor Henry French
.
Hocking, Alfred
p t; James William
Whitney, Beojamm .
Hofg~a.rd, Christ'r Blom
ra •
W'ld
Gerritt
Parmile
1 er,
p · gle Clarence David
.
Hoffmann, Theodore
rin ' .
'Wilder John Knights
thnr Pardy, Hiram
'
A
l
• Horswlll, Char es r
ond James Harvey Williams, Obar1es
Hyman, Joseph
Raym
•
b t
Williams Robert Barker
Isenberg, Daniel Paul Rice Renton, James Ro er
•Ill d B wo
Richards, Elmer Ellsworth Wood, Cli or
rGo
Johnson, Christopher
R h Simon
Wootten, llenry eorge
Johnson, William
ot •
.
Worth Henry Fletcher
Jones, John Griffith
Rowatt, All_an RINtchl1e
Wrlgh~ Jamee Newett-139.
Sanders,
Milton
e
sou
King, Thomas J amee
ENTERED APPRENTIOES :

Koehn, Roi.ado

Ahrens, August

Podmore, Robert Wood-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Austin, Stafford Lapham
Buchholtz, Frank

Oaseiday, John
Judd, Albert Francie

Swift, Sidney Bonrne-5.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Fernandez, Abraham
More, Robert
Monacheei, Herber\ Drew White, John Oorbet

Wilcox, William Lnther-5.

DIED:

Loaiseon, Samuel

Sorrenson, Tbomaa-2.

Mc veigh, Charles Reginald {F. c.)-1•

'Io the Grand Lodge of OoJ,ifornia.

1896.]

889

OCCIDENTAL LODGE, No. 22.
San Franclaeo, San Franclaeo County.

Stated Meeting1, .fir1t Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jfichael Joseph Savage, Master,
Edward Kirk Ohapman, Bentor Deacon,
Robt. Harmer Conntryman, Ben. Warden, Wells Estee Balcom, Junior Deacon,
Ernest Ohappell .Bonner, Ju.n;ior Warden, Edward Jennings Thomas, Mar1hal,
Obarlee Lyman Haskell, Trea1urer,
George Warren Drew,
l Steward&
Edward Frederick Delger, Secretary,
Robert Neddermark Oarsoo, f
'
Willlal'.I! Freyberg Flick, Tyler.
Paat Maatera1

Charles Lyman,
David :Morgan, Jr.,
John Elbridge Pardy,
Blliott Josiah Moore,
Charles Johnson Willey,
Samuel Wool~ey Backus,
Jamee Knox Polk W1leon,
:irlJsford Pease Flint,

Charles Lyman Haskell,
Fred. Wm. Gus. Moebua,
John Woodlock,
Henry Borner,
William Macdonald,
Michael Joseph Savage,
William M.iddletoo Fonda, James LaFayette Halsted,
Obrlstopher Robert Browne, Henry Langford Tickner,
Harrison Alexander JoneP, HenryJno.JaoobVan Marie,
George Henry Jenks,
David Edwin Miles.
Josiah Wickerd Roller,
MASTER MASONS :

Anderson, Winslow
Olark, Edward Fanning
Formhals, Ferdinand
Avery, Francis
Clark, Joseph Fessenden French, Frank James
.AyerR, Willis Henry
Clark, Treat Perry
French, Wheeler Nichole
Backus, Oscar Jerome
Cochran, John Henry
Freund, Otto William
Becker, Bernard Adolph
Colborn, Charles Henry
Frink, George Washington
Benedict, Courtland Smith Cole, Richard Beverly
Fry, John Douglass
Bennett, Alfred Brown
Comely, Oharlee John
Gallagher, John Patrick
Bien, Lonis
Crane, Henry Adolphns
Geary, William
Birch, William Henry
Cressey, Frank Albert
Gedge, Harry Edward
Birch, William Walter
Curtis, Charles Moses
Gibbs, Nathan p.enry
Bl188, Charles
•
Damon, George Dimick
Gonzales, Felix Francisco
Bllu, Thomas John
D&moo, Marshall Nye
Goold, Edmond Louis
Biies, Thomas John, Jr;
Davidson, Joseph Robert Gordon, Phil Kearny
Brittan, William Giles
Day, Frank Mortimer
· Grogan, James Morton
Bronson, Frithjof
Dean, Walter Edwin
Gunn, Benjamin McKay
Brown, Alonzo Fitch
Denniston, Edward Gere Hall, Arthur Weyland
Brown, Thomas
De Silva, Manuel Maria
Harding, Ralph Judd
Buckbee, Spencer Cone
Dowling, James Joseph
Harris, Jerome Omberson
Baltmao, Jolin Henry
Durbrow, Barry
Harris, Stephen Loring
Bush, Walter Nelson
Earl, John Ogden
Hart, Marcus
Campbell, Joseph Henry Ewen, Joh'u Sangster
Haste, Julias Alexander
Olmpe, Harry Magnes
Faymonville, Bernard
Havner, James Randall
Capp, Charles Binger
Field, Alfred Bishop
Hawkins, Edward Kendrick
Center, George Lillie
Fitch, George Lewis
Hillyer, Curtis
Obapman, Frederick York Flanders, Nathan
Hindes, Edward Brooks
ll'eeaebrongh, Andronicus Forbes, Charles
Hitchcock, Daniel Webster

23

890

ges
Returns of the Suhordinate Lod

[Aug. 1,

Bnedaker, William Harv ey
umck, William
Holmee, Howard Carlton McG
Snook, Jam es Athearn
ae
Thom
ann,
MoM
Hoppe, Charlee Edwin
Spen cer, George Willig
her
Fletc
am
Willi
MoNutt,
Bort on, Thomae Rotch
Staude, Fred
les
McQueeten, Char
Ives, George Ieaac
Steiner, Nicbolae
etian
Cbri
r
Pete
r,
Mille
am
Jamee, Fran k Willi
Stone, Byron Franklin
y
Henr
iam
Will
r,
Mille
Jaynee, Fran k
Stone, Walter Somera
tier
Baba
ae
Thom
it,
Moff
Janeen, John Wm. Ditleff
Stone, William
ted
Whi
ae
Thom
1'4ulford,
Jobneon, Albert
Street, John Herb ert
rt Carling
Robe
re,
Mye
K.
l
ione
eetL
e,Ern
JohDllton
Swa.lee, John William
lee
Char
on,
Nele
ison
Atch
Keefer, Wiudeor
Taylor, How'd Pren ties, Jr • •
ris
Mor
ton,
New
Kellogg, Fran k Harvey
Taylor, John Brinkworth
eliue
Corn
,
nnor
O'Co
Kelly, Richard Edward
T'Beok, William
i.rd
Edw
y
Penn ell, Henr
Kennedy, Jamee
Thomas, William Pear d
Charlee
ard
Edw
e,
Perk
e
Whit
ard
Kennedy, Leon
pleaeure, Tho~. Edw'd
Pete re, John Fred 'k Fran k Tram
Kerr, Jamee Wat t
g Trevor, Henry
stron
Arm
iHiam
ipe,W
Phill
Kereey, John Daniel
er, Allieon How ard
Pmckoey, Thomae Cochran Taru
King, Alfred George
er, Arth ur Cephae
Turn
e
r, John Lewi
Kinney, .Marehall Johneon Prio
er, Cephae
Turn
y
n, William Henr
Kittredge, Spencer Bigelow Quin
Turner, George Webster
Bozo
,
vich
Rado
Knapp, Jabe z Burr
Tyson, George Hen ry
ogtoo, Thomas
Lackmann, John Chris. D'h Ridli
on, lame e
·Tys
uel
Sam
Robioeoo,
I.ambert, Dan
hington Tyeon, Robert Jamee
Was
ge
Geor
,
Root
ar
Caep
Laodie, Edward
erslice, William Key1er
Roeeogarn, Joh11 Herm ann Vand
Lareen, George
Volkmaoo, Carl Heinrich R.
erick
Fred
lee
Char
,
Sage
Laweoo, Jamee ·
Wadham, Luman
Sage, Lewie Henry
Laweoo, John Ohrietiau
ren, Albe rt Thomae ·
War
d
Davi
am
Baoboro, Willi
Lee, John
ine, William Hartley
Watk
Schnoor, Charles Otto
Leit head , Jamee McKay
Wateoo, Thomae
ley
Wes
John
,
oteo
Bcbo
en
Lilienthal, Eroeet Reub
Jen, Cord.
Schreiber, Wm. Au. Martin We1
Locketaedt, Louis
maoo, Lonie
Welo
lee
Schultz, Ohar
Low, Josiah Orne
Lovell
te,
Whi
y
Harr
Seymour, Simon
Lucke, Bernard Hen ry
Willey, Otis Free man
Mark
don,
Shel
Martin, Alexander
Williams, Oscar
Sinclair, John William
Mauran, Jose ph Ruesell
Williams, William Alfred
les
Char
Bleeper,
Maye, Arthur Hugh
Willis, Harr y Rees
aine
Smith, John Trem
Merrill, Jamee William
Wioterbnro, Jose ph-2 22.
am
Willi
h,
Smit
McOahoo, G~orge
McGinnis, Robert John
ENT ERE D APPR ENT ICES :
Wilson, Alex. Wilh elm- 3,
Mahoney, John Hill, Jr.
ldiog
Joboeoo, Fran k Bpan
WIT HDR AWN :

Maynard, Duncan Dnn bar- 2,

Evel11nd, George Fritz.

.

Smith, William...;.5,

Dimond, William Henry
Downing, Henry Olav

Hies ter, Amoe Calvin
Sage, Lewis Peas e-7.

SUSP END ED FOR NON-PAY

Oampbell, James
Deuprey, Eugene Nelson

MENT OF DUES :

McCarthy, Thomae
Reichert, Tlieodore
DIE D:

Adams, George Mackay
Ames, Dummer Trask
Brant, William Perr y

1896.J

.
rJVl~e 0~.,. OaJ,i~
To the Grand ~
,,ornia.

891

.
MA DIS ON LO DG E, No. 23
Gra u Val ley, Nev ada Co

-ty .

in each month.
Stated Heetinga, jira t 1'ueaday
OFF ICE RS1

Frank Ave r; Master,
John Terrill, Senior Warden,
den
Paul Wesley Michell, Jun£or War
'
Thomas John Michell 2Teaaurer
'
Wllliam David 1Iar rie' s

on,
;!llll!am Frederick Prisk, 8en. Deac
1
Th iam Curnow, Juni or De0-00n,
D e?dore Henry Wilhelm, Mar thal '
l
avid Edwin Matteson,
ard1,
Hen ry Sylveeter Bpauldio f Stew
' -eta ry,
g,
Edward Nuttall, '.ij/ltr.
Pae t Maa tera 1

John Oriep Coleman,
William Coombe,
Edward Oolemao,
1 oho Willard Reiley,

William Gordon Hudson
Th~odore Hen ry Wilheli:i
William Alexander Hawle~
'
Thomas John Michell,

Marion Pier ce Stone
Jamee Clym 0 Noel, '
Fran k Aver.

MASTER MASOHS:

Edwards, Joseph
Ahlgren, Carl Gnetaf
Kinsman, Alfred
Andrew, Joel
Edwards, William
Kinemao, J oho
Andrews, Jamee
Elliott, Marcos Lindsey
Lewis, John
Angove, Jeremiah
Erb, John Benjamin
Long, Stephen
Evans, Thomas
Angove, Richard
Lord, George
Barker, Charles
Finnie, Robert Dryden
Lontzeohelzer, William
Bartell, Joseph
Francie, J oho Bray
Maddrill, Chllrles Edward
Fuchs, Hen ry
Berrimao, Henry
Maddrill, Jamee Hen ry
John
soo,
Gl11S
Ber~mao, Nicholae
Maoeau, Zopbaolah
as J amee
as Henry Gluy
Berrimao, .Thom
oy, Luecios
,
McC
.
.
Bl h
Glayas, James Luke
ougall, William
McD
s op, Wilham Cr11Se
ger• l:lamuel
Mill, Charles
Body. Wm. Chrietop.her Dart Gran
Green, Henry
Buckett, ~homae
Miller, Fred Maoniog
Gribble, John
ard
Rich
y,
Moore, Stephen
Cadd
Griffin , "ueor ge
rge
pbell, Cleo
Cam
Nicholas, Henry
.
~Haas, Isidor
'-'Ampbell, William
Nile, Richard
Halsall Th
Care, Thomas John
Noonan, Patr ick
• om11s
Clift w·ir
1
Harris, John
iam
Oliver, William Phillips
• '
ael
Harr is, Stephen Mich
Opie, Bennett
Ohoch, Cha.rlee Edward
Hattam, Joseph
Park in, J oho
Ooombs, William
H'1ck e, J oh o, Jr.
er,• Arthur
Coop
Paacoe, John Henry
11...
gt
h'
W
ge
Geor
Hill,
l"'vaghlm, John Henry
Pear ce, Thomas Jenkin
BB ID OD
•
Cryer. Robert
Hooper, James
Pear e, Joseph
.
W
H d
Dao ie 1s, Henry
Athertoo Pelleymoaoter, Jame s Ivey
llliam
sou,
u
l>avey, Charles
Bosom, Andrew
Peterson, Andrew Gust af
Da . D .
Ingram, Thomae Jr
Petitjean, Theophilus
vies, llVld
•
'
d
Alfre
ins,
Jenk
Phillipe, John
Dodge, Jobo J,ewie
Johoetoo Pete
Polglaee, John
~reey, Samuel Packwood Jone
r
s, R~bert
Provis, William
~ooglase, Wi!~iam
Jooee, William a
IDooetao, Wilham
Richards, Edward Ingram

892

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges
Smith, John Milton
Stein, Isidor
Thomas, Frederick lames
Titna, Frederiok J
Trewren, George Oharles
Tnttle, Daniel
Upholf, Berman

Richards, William
Rogers, William James
Roland, Lonis Jerome
Sanders, J oho ·
Saxon, Edward
Sears, Paul Stickney
Silvester, Henry

[Aug. 1,

Vincent, George
Walker, Thomas Rolla
Werry, John
Werry, Richard
Woodmansee, Charles Scott
Yeo, Samuel
Zapf, Oarl-130.

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of California.

893

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES ;

Go~zalee, Manuel

DIED:

Aeilkema, Bernard Dates
Farnsworth, Calvin Eldridge

Utter, Eliakim Staonard-2.

Jones, Lewis Foller
Reid, Henry Olay

Widman, William Henry-Ii.

l:IUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Mitchell, Oharles Henry-2.

Kemp, Robert
DIED:

Angove, John
Orocker, John Rosa

Stoddard, Alexaoder-5.

Hankins, Charles Henry
Lockwood, JnsttlS Wheeler

GEORGETOW N LODGE, No. 25.
Georeetown, El Dorado County,

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or ne:1:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

MAH.IPOSA LODGE, No. 24.
lllarlposa, lllarlpoaa Co11nty.

Stated .Meetings, Saturday ·of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Frederick William Schlageter, Master, Thomas Berdine Bowland, Senior Deaoon,
George Henley Hobinson, SeniorlVarden, - - - - ,.....--, Junior Dtaoon,
Frank Potthast, Manhal,
John Daniel Ladwig. Junior Warden,
} 8le1Dards,
JontAthan Kerr,
_ _ _ _ - - , 1ha.urer,
George Boward.Knight,
John· Howell Lind, Secretary,
Oar! Gnstave Lind, '.fyler.
George Oonots, Ohaplain,
Paac Mastera 1
James Dully Craighan,

Edward Putnam Wason,

Frederick Wm. Schlageter.

MASTER MASONS:

Heiohold, Leonard
Barnett, James
Bnlsmano, Henry Nicklas
Olark, Joseph
Coffman, William Franklin Jones, Lewis Newman
King, Samuel Aiken
Oronin, Timothy Joseph
Lewis, Samnel Joseph
Davaoay, Hugh
Mathews, John
Dnnn, James Niel
Gonoher, George Gelette McOaflrey, George

Ridgeway, Joseph Hend'son
Schlageter, Berman
Shilling; Frederick
Snyder, John Washington
Speraro, Angelo
Trabucco, Frank Thomas
Westfall, Joel Jackson-SS.

William George Beattie, .senior Deaoon,
George .Oharles Rau, Master,
William Fredericks, Junior Deac<>n,
John Oolby Rioh, Senior Warden,
Oarlo Forni, Marshal,
Thomae Morrish, Junior Warden,
d
t
Christopher Beattie
Thomas Z. Armstrong, Treasurer,
Benjamin Franklin Robson, f 8 IB1Dar . B,
Tinsley Burton Epps, Secretary,
James Francis Walk, Tyler.
Paet lllaaters 1
John Oolby Rich,
Lewie White,
William Simpson Hickman,

William Alvin Bucknam,
Isaac Grinnell Bwirt,
Harry Morrie Grover,

MABrER MASONS:

Benjamin, Clinton Elisha Gibbs, William Banks
Beattie, George
Glasson, Josiah
Ohapmao, William Dndley Grant, George r.iocoln
Dains, Benjamin Johnson Grover, Orio Scripture
Davis, James
Grover, Walter Nevada
Darling, Andrew
Hayden, Asia Thnrston
Demn&h, Renben
Hersey, Oolnmbns Soule
Dotts, Lodovico
Heuser, George Henry
Fillippinl, Rinaldo
Johns, John
Forbes, J othain Oscar
f,aoe, William Henry
Forni, Angelo
Langley, Charles Hiltoli
Fortnoe, Willia1n
Le Bceur, Theophilus
Gay, Robert
Martin, Herbert Sargent

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Washhnro, Alfred Henry

Williams, Thomas P-~.

Noble, Robert
Peters, Benjamin
Presley, Alvin More
Reedebaw, William John
Rodiettl, Francisco
Shepherd,Beojamln Frank'n
Simmonds, Thomas Henry
Simpers,George Washington
Wade, John
Walker, Adolph Henry
Ware, John Adrian
White, Joseph Fullerton

FELLOW OBAFT;

Farnsworth, John Fraoklio-1.

FELLOW ORA.FT:

Henwood, Joseph Dorrell-I.

William Ronsh,
George Charles Rau.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Darling, Charles

Wilton, Arneatus James-2.
DIED:

Corrigall, John William-I.

-55.

894:

Returns of the SuhordinaJ,e Lodtje.a

1896.J

EL DORADO LODGE, No. 26.

John Clifton Mason,
John McMarry,
John William Philbrook,

Placerv:llle, El Dorado County.

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

Stated Muting•, first Monday in each month.
Marshall Hnghes, Senior .Deacnn,
Frederick Ferdinand Be.res, Master,
Robert Pe.ge.n PatteI'!lon, Senior Warden, Giacomo Varozza, Junfor .Deacon,
Lindley Olyde Cooper, Junior Wardan, Charles Fitzgerald Irwin, .Mar11hal,
Ce.leb Reed, } SIRwards
Augnstus M:ierson, '.lreaBUrer,
'
Peter Vignaut,
Oharles Caleb Pierce, Secreta,ry,
James Lambert Weymouth, iyZer.
- - - - - - , Chaplain,
Paat Maatera1

George Franklin Mack,
Charles Fltzgere.ld Irwin,

P•at Maatera 1

James Harvey,
Henry Larkin Lowden,

Ce.leb Reed.

MA.STER MA.SONS;

Pascoe, John
Combelle.ck, John
Alderson, Thome.a
Plume.do, Francis Bile.ire
Cooper, John Robert.
Ashcroft, Henry
Prideaux, Henry
Duncan, Albert Henry
Avansino, Nicola
Prideaux, William
Barlow, Geo. Washington Hawley, Asa Hershel
Ralph, Thomas
Heisser, Joseph
Beach, Setb Gibbs
Roberts, Owen
' Berrlll, Eli
Boulden, Thomas
Rupley, Theodore
• Me.rchini, M:arco
Broad, James
Oamplni, James Girolamo Mason, Benjamin Dorsey Tacchino, Vincenzo
Torrell, Albert
Miller, John Wesley
Cleese, John Peter
Olmsted, Sheldon.Patterson Weymann, William-44.
Co!Ho, Oliver
Collins, Walter Eugene
FELLOW ORA.FT ;

G d
Bates, Fordyce
oo year, Charles Eagene R11ed, Benjamin Ha den
Blake, Selden Lafayette
Y
Haas, Frederick Gottlieb Rowles, James
Bowie, James
Schall: Loals John
:::~::~::idGastaf
Barns, Henry
Schneider, Henry Conrad
Haskins, Albert p
Carter, Jo~n Walker
8h~ford, John William
B
Obamber!am, Pe.al Leonard Haye H "
Smith, Ohampion W
e nnett
Hop~ ~~~~
Conklin, Homer Thome.a
1
Smith, Jeremiah
K"lli ' R iam 1rving
Commings, Jamee
1 n, lobe.rd
8 mi"th• J o hn Huron
Cummings, Robert Falton Lee.a G
Dannenbrlnk, Wm. Fredk Leon'a deoHrge WasWhlngton Stiller, Riebe.rd William
Swift Ed
r • enry illfam
·
·
. • ward Dexter
McWhorter Adam
Day, John Dixon Oope
Timmerman, Loaie Fred'k
Miller, Tho~as L Lytle
Dimock, Frank Leslie
Van Matre, George
Mortimer, We.shfnove
Fieher, John l:!toart
Vim Matre, John Chandler
Newman .M" h lg:n
Flagg, Jacob Redding
Vollmers, William
Pereonet;e ; ae ~osh
Garvin, Robert Jackson
E' . okses William Wells, Richard Brown
Pete
Given, Horace Robert
Wilso J
rson, r1c
.
G1ven,
n, ames
.
William Cashman Rub L0018 F
Zarli, Fre<!erlck-66.
rederlck
'
Goetze, Henry William
FELLOW ORA.FT:

Black, Harry Eugene-I,
Bopp, William Irving, Jr.
RESTORED:

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Ryan, Richard Fraaklin

J
Whit
more, ohn-S

SUSPENDED l!'OR NON·PAYMENT OJ!' DU.ES 1

Philbrook, John William-1.

Philbrook, John William-I.

Beardslee, Frederick Wheeler-I.

WITHDRAWN:·

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Tinnin, Wiley James, P. (} . .M.-l.

Thompson, John Willlam-2.

Ferrari, Giovanni

Detlef Hansen,
Theodore Eldon Jones.

MART.ER MASONS:

OJl'FlCERS1

Frederick Ferdioe.nd Be.rss,
Albert Je.y Lowry,

DIED:

Ford, Simeon Je.sper
Gorski, Severin

O'Neil, Joseph

895

Teagae, Fraocis-4.

GOLDEN GATE LOD.G E, N 0, 30.

TRINITY LODGE, No. '%/,

San Francbeo, San Franc•--...,.. C ount;r,

Wea•ervfile, Trinity County.

Stated Mutinga, firat 1.beadaga in each month.

Stated Meetings, last Saturday in each month.

OFF.ICERS 1

OFFICERS a

James Harvey, Sen'ior Deacon,
Oetlef Hansen, Master,
William Heresy La Baree, Ben. Warden, John Weinheimer Meckel, Junior Deacon,
Theodore Elden Jones, Mara/Lal,
Charles Lacien Cass, Junior Warden,
John William Philbrook, l SteUJarda
Peter Miner Paulsen, 7reasurw,
William Spencer Lowden,
Augnst Frederick Bremer, SMretary,
John Henry Bremer, Tyler.

r

'

William Henry Lillie, M<Uter, .
Thomas l'rebell, Senwr Warden,
Albert Henry Merrill, Junfor Ward811
'
James Patterson, .7hiz.urer,
George John Hobe, Secretary,

Charles Otto Johnson, Senl.or Deacon,
James Laaeen Barr, Junior f>eacon,
Rofas Wadleigh Thompson, Mar•hal,
Chas. Aagastos, Wm. Wagner, t
Anton Frederick Thornberg f SieUJarda,
'
John D'Arcy, .7'yl4r.

896

te Lodges
Returns of the Subordina

1896.]

[Aug. 1,

•.
<J<iliJ"
.,,ornia

8teies, Alb ert Joh n
Van Dozer, Oliver
8to kke bye , Pet er Madsen Van Pel t, .Tohn Hen ry
Stra tma n, Joh n
Venker, Hen ry Her man
o
Thomas, Wiliiam
Vorrath, Charles Ohrietia
Thomson, Thomae
Wallace, Christian
Tilton, Charles Osborn
Wallace, Thomae
Torey, Sta nley
Walsh, George Cha rles '
Tower, Horace Fre der ick Weaver, Dwight Smith
Torner, Matthew

Pa st Ma ste ra •

George Pre sco tt Vance,
Thoe. Robb Henshelwood,
n Thomas Grey,
Williaiii Sch nyl er Moses,
Joh
Jam es Hen ry Skelly,
George Joh n Bob e,
Edwin Lew is Meyer,
le,
Ear
y
hon
Ant
Slade
on,
Rofns Wadleigh Thomps
William Sydney Phe lps,
l, Rob ert Bri ght ,
l Macdonald,
Hal
re
odo
Edw ard Mortimer Oottrel
The
,
syth
For
George Cam ero n
Niels Ive rsen .
Jam es Pat ters on,
Amasa Pln mm er Fla glo r,
Samnel Hen ry Ken t,
,
eys
phr
Hum
d
roy
Hol
es
.fam
Joh n Osborne Doane,

897

e
Wegener, Chas. Angaeto
Wells, William
H
Whitelaw, Thos. Pot aro
s .
.Whitham, Joh n Has ting
Wilson, Art hur Latto
Wilson, Charles William
sh
Wilson, Geo. Nathan Wa
2.'
Wilson, Joh n Ob arle -1s

RESTORED:

MASTER MASONS:

McKeon, Joh n
Fak e, George Joh n
McLeod, Angae
Ackerman, Charles Herman
Foo rd, Jam es
Mearas, Jam es
Aitken, Jam ee (2d)
n
Fre ese , Andrew Christia
Me rx, Emil Otto Her man
Alsen, Andere Andrew
maa
Her
a
Joh
,
ese
Fre
Mestoa, Rob ert
Alston, Fra.ak Wilbur
oho
J
on,
Fnl lert
Moller, Erd maa n Leopold
Anderson, Charles
n
akli
Fra
ia
jam
Gar ratt , Ben
atell, Edg ar Hendersoa
Mo
Aadres, Geo rge Samuel
es
Gar rick , Wa lter Jam
rris, Edw ard Tho mas
.Mo
Aspe, Joh n William
God dar d, Geo rge Henry
rles
Oha
ad, Joh n Sco tt
,
irhe
kas
Mn
Bac
Griffiths, Thomas Hamlyn
olson, Ale xan der
Nic
Bain, Joh n
k'm
Bir
me
God
en
Groth, Sor
Nielsen, Pet er
Bennett, Jam es Hen ry
Hag ne, Charles Joh n
Nig htin gale , Joh n
Bluhm, William George
Har ring toa , Joh n
Nntson, Cha rles Andrew
Blyth, Hen ry
Hawkes, Joh n Hen ry
l
Bridgman, Joh n Wyndham
O'Connor, Thomas Michae
n
Joh
,
Hed ley
, Joh n
ens
Ow
Brown, Joh n
tin
es Hen cke n. Mar
Par ks, Joh n
Bud din gto n, Moses Jon
Hen rix, Edw ard
Pao!, Alb ert H~nry
Bondesen, Boy
ry
Hen
,
ton
ing
her
Het
Pan li, Fra nk Ohrietian
Bar ns, Henry Bernhard
Hew itt, Cha rles Hen ry
Pet erso n, Jac ob
BllBsell, Art hur
g
ber
Vos
w'e
,La
Hog ebo om
erso n, Soren Bal tzer
Pet
Byrnes, William Andrew
•
Holm, Christian
mo nd, Art hur Jam es
Oairoe, Joh n Tho rbu rn
Pay
Howell, Edward Henrv
hae l, Rob ert
Rap
Campbell, Robert
Huddleston, Hngh
Jam es
d,
Oarleon, Otto Wilhelm
Ree
rge
Hug hes , Geo
Evan Lea nde r
se,
Ree
Car r, Joh n Hen ry
ren
Far
Jac kso n, Joh n
s, Ed' d Bleeeington
nold
Car ter, Daniel Alonzo
Rey
Jen sen , Nie ls Pet er
Lonie
Nile
e,
Ric
Chr istia n, Caesar
Kance, Fra ncie
inson, Richard Gre gor y
Ohrietie, Hen ry Pithie
Rob
man
Her
d.
Fre
n
Kih n, Joh
Rou ntre e, Jam es
Clark, George Dickson
Killman, Hen ry 0
Colline, William Webb
Ron ntre e, M9eee Edmnnd
er
rtim
Kit che n, William Mo
esen, Reier
Salv
Cook, Aaron
Knief, George Ern est
Satchwell, Joh n
Cook, Benjamin Fra nkl in
n
Jea
rles
Cha
,
foed
Koe
rd
Schwarz, R. Obas. Burkha
Cook, Phi lip Hen ry
Lam ber th, Hen ry Norrie
, Geo rge M
man
Bea
Cnmmlng, Jos eph Moore
y
dsa
Lin
ce
f,e Gal, Claren
Seymour, Alfred Oolline
Davidson, Wa lter Par k
Leslie, Andrew Thomas
hb't
Deacon, William
Shade,Wide'm Dan 'l Ont
Levach, Ale xan der
nk
Fra
D.
d
s
mon
lphu
Ray
Ado
le,
rne,
Sb1
De Lis
Lindberg; Kan t Wilhelm
Simpson, Job a
Donne, Fraacie Henry
rge Edw ard
Geo
le,
Litt
rge
Geo
a
Smith, Hea ry
Edm oad soa , Joh
l
Litt le, William Tel
Smith, Joh n Jamee
Ehm aa, Rob ert
n
Joh
ry,
Low
Smith, Willi11.m Jcibo
Eketrom, John Emanuel
cell
Mar
t
met
Em
,
nnle
Jl!:a
ith, William Magone
Elliott, Ham ilto n
Sm
ingo
Dom
:Maroacci,
ar, William Joh n
Spe
Elwell, Fra nk David
ry
Ma tthe ws, Hen
d, William Gar dne r
ffor
Eschen, Jam es Carl
.Sta
ard
McCUiloch, Joh n Edw
Everding, Joh n

To tke Grand Lodge of

Elwell, Fra nk David

Lam ber th, Hea ry No rris

-2,

WITHDRAWN:

Graves, Hir am l'hr oop

H

a • M . William Joe eph -3
amllton, William Joh nso
artin,
•

-PAYMENT OF DU ES:
SUSPENDED FOB NON

Altken, Jam ee
.Atmann, Obarlee George

Biohardson, Charles
Stra ng, Alexander

Tapklng, Bernhard Fre d'k

-5,

DIE D:

Cavarly, Joh n Mansfield
Holmes, Geo. Alexand~r

Pet en, Joh n Hen ry
Bugg, Am"e Uriah
-1.
Gibson, Fre der ick (B, A..)

Smith, Charles Ward
Smith, Jao ob Mo rtol i-6,

GO LD R~LL LO DG E, No . 32.
Lln eol n, Pla cer Co

•

anc y.

o-1
,., .
Stated Muting1, Saturday :1 or mz t preceding Full ....
oon
0FF ICE RS 1

'
Se fQ
Walter Jan sen , Maater,
Fre der ick Oalvln Davia
rdsn
; r. lJsaoan,
~k
twl
Har
rlee
Charles Goy, Bsnior Wa
Oha
ert
Rob
Jun :
or Deaco,.,
., ' ~~~i
Hil l , m:a
B:enry David Fre der ick
ra,...,,
Warden, LEdward Eug ene
wr
'
1t1r,,,Albert Jam ee Giadd1'ng, '"'
l
rea1
..
ore~o Dow Adame
He
'
rsta
' f 8teUJar<4,
nry William Beseac Seo
• Joh n Goy,
P"JI,
'
r.
J"m ee White Hislop, 2iile
Paa t llfa ate. rs'

Thomae Barrill Har per
,
Chris. Colambae San de;s
Jamee Edg ar Young,

24

Edmond Jon es Sparks,
Joh n Haenny,
,
Obrietop'r Henry Hoppert

Albert Jam es Gladdl ng.
Walter Jan sen
Joh n Ger ber . '

898

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.l

To the Grand Lorige of Oalifornia.

899

:MASTER :MASONS:

Blackie Anthony McOlellan Gray' Galusha
Bolens 'John Lewis
Guthrie, James Frank
Ohamberlaln, Thomas Lee Handling, Thomas
Clark, Owen
R~ll, John. ~lbert
Crosby, Fred Ohase
Hislop, W1U1~m
Orosby, Josiah Chase
.Ingram, W1lb~m
Finney, William Norman Mlr,hael, Martin
Fleming, Albert Carlyle • Nader, Henry
Frederick, Morris Rose

Nash, Lorenzo Dow
.
Pemberton, George Francis
Powers, Amos Matthew
Rivas, Emannel
Roberts, William Ewing
Sparks, William :Martin
Wiles, John Marshall
Wyatt, James-4.S.

SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35.
San Dlearo. San Dlearo Coanty.

Stated Meeting1, Saturda1J of or nut preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Levings Pierce, ]Jfa..t,er,
David Charles Collier, Senior Deacon,
Emanuel J Louis, Senior Warden,
Hans Marquart, Junior Deacon,
Minord Jonathan Perrin, Junior Warden, William Augostns Begole, Marshal,
John Henfrey Simpson, Treasurt1r,
Charles Michael Bose,
l stewarda
John Keep Blackmer;Secrstary ,
William AngDB\ns Martin, f
'
Eli Tucker Blackmer, Ohaplain,
Thomae Goodwin Jeftrls, Tyler •

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Noyes, O Charles-2.

Chapman, James Albert

•

fa•t Maeters 1
Phllip Crosthwaite,
Daniel Browor Kortz,
Marcus Schiller,
William Augustus Begole,
John Waldo Thompson,
William Wallace Bowers,
Simon Levi,

OPHIR LODGE, No. 38.
M.uphy'11, Calaveras C~unty.

Stated Meeting1, third Saturday in each month.

'

OFFICER!oi•

Grant Starr More, Senior Deaoon,
John Henry Heard, Ma61.er,
Horace Edson Thorpe, Junior Deaoon,
Willis Dunbar, Senior Warden,
John Heinsdorlf, Mar1hal,
John E Holland, Junior Warden,
Lewis Winslow Fabe,
~ SteuJardB,
Riley Bent.er, n-eaaurer,
William Henry Jenkins,
John M.cQoig, Secretary,
Thomas Prothero, TylBr.
Past Malter&:
Andrew JacksonCooke,
John Henry Heard,

George Lewis Troe,
Frank Bowditch Morse,

Charles Lee.

:MASTER :MASONS:

.

ohn Henry
McKenzie, Hector Dan
Batten, Frederick
Gilm?re~nr
McNeil, Robert Ware
Batten, George
Harr!"• w·ir y
Pool, William
Oarley, Joseph
La~kio, ~~am
Ross, Elias:EJam
Davies, James Bydenha.m 0 LeLl1zzda,JJ01· Bophronlos Scantlebury, George Henry
•
oy , u ms
.
Davis, A nse 1 .
J h
Shaw, Alfre d
Davis, Bradley Sherman
Manne 1' 0 n
H
l:!impson
Barnum
L11F11yetie
. .
:Manuel, Mathew enry
'
Demarbw, Ange10
h&ll Frank Benjamin Terry, Milo
Driver, David Bakie
Mars.t ' J nas Christian Thomas, George Lloyd-~·
Garland, Warren Nathaniel Maori son, o
ENTERED APPBENTIOE:

Haoselt, John Michael A.ndrew-1.
RESTORED:

Shaw, Alfred

Daniel Oave,
George Mifll.io Danoals,
Addison Morg110,
Eli Tucker Blackmer,
John Keep Blackmer,
William John Mossholder,
George Forster,

Marshall, Frank Benjamin-2.

,

Bolon William Cralgoe,
William Frederick Bchoetze,
Lewis Steenrod .McLore,
William Stearns llilcClellan,
Robert M MoKiolay,
Peter Walter Beamer,
Gilberl. Conger Arnold.

MASTER MASONS:

Allison, Joan Manwell
Carle, Irving L
Foller, William Harrison
Armfield, Harrie O.
Oarringtoo,Frank de Lannay Gehring, William
Asher, Jo•ephus Marion
Carrington, Henry Austin Geiger, David
Bailey, Harvey
Chase, Levy
Ginty, John
Baldwin, Hugh John
Christ~nsen, Chris. Andreas Glaser, Charles Henry
Barnes, Frederick James
Conklin, Norman Henry
Goeue, John Evangelist
Barry, John
Copeland, George Davis
Goldbaum, Bimon
Bass, John Doncao
Corey, Albert Wate
Grow, Galosh& Benton
Beard, Amos
Coyne, Joseph
Hackett, Samuel Warren
Blochman, Abraham
Craig, Lewis Newton
· Hadley, Ephraim Wilson
Bradt, Garrett Garreon
Darrow, Lyman Roselle
Hearne, Joseph Carter
Bradt, Horace
Daner, Charles Rodolph
Henderson, Olarence And.
Brandt, Charles Ohrietiao Davis, Leonard Fisk
Hint11D, John Bruodridge
Breese, Robert
!Javis, Murray
Hoole, Beptimus Frederick
• Britt, Eugene Waddell
Davidson, Frank Pierce
Horton, Alonzo Erastus
Brooke, Charles F., Sr.
Dawkins, Thomas Edward Hnmphreys, Thomas Henry
Brost, Samuel
Day, Joshua Davis
Hunt, Nathan
Bryan, Bolon
DeBurn, Eugene
Hnghes, Moses
Budlong, William Edgar
Deoatnr, James Godfrey
Hylnnd, Charles John
Bollis, William Shnfelt . Docking, Thomas
Jackson, Jacob Young
Borbridge, Oscar Howard Dill, Albert Freeman
Jacoby, Henry .Madison
Burgess, Edward Ezekiel Dnbravcioh, Dinks M
Jenkes, Ernest
Barwell, William John
Donnels, Samuel Sumner Johnson, Pearl Marion
9DBhyhead, Edw.Wilkerson Earle, George Wheeler . Jones, Victor
<lameron, Thomas Ross
Eldredge, Samuel Crowell Journeay, George
Campbell, Chas. Alexander Fonroier, Ferdmand
Jnlian, Archibald Hoston
Capron, John Gar6eld
Frary, Frank Phineas
Kent, Horace

Returna of the Suh<ll'dinate Lodges

900

(Aug. 1,

Mnmford, John Valentine Striokler, John Weaver
Kent, Lewie Edgar
Ke88ler,Charlee Frederick Morphy, Walter Herbert Swallow, Charles Hpwel
Taylor, James Woodbury
Nerney, Thomas Alexis
Kinney, John Fitch
Taylor, Harry Scott
Kirby, Lewis Reginald Wm. Page, George Reed
Thomas, Richard Baker
Pamperin, Henry
Klanber, _Abraham
:ritos, Harry Lewis
Polhamns, Albert A}eL
Kohn, Gnetave
Titos, Nat. Robert
Powers, Robert Morrie
Lambert, John Willis
Trooetrop,Jolioe.a.rodtEmile
Prloe, Jacob
Leisenring, Peter B
Orrick Norville
Torner,
Robert
Rankin,
Adolph
Levi,
Ulrich, Albert Henry
Rathlel, J oho A
Loomis, Charles Clark
Raymond, Jamee Dooglaes Van Norman, Edgar Vernon
Lnoe, Moses Angostioe
Veal, William
Rea, John Blacklock
Lyle, William Posey
Wal!i:es. William Thomae
Reed, David l)ortis
Lyons, George
Waogeoheim, Joline
Pitts
John
'Reed,
Bamnel
Joseph
Maooasee,
Bemondlno, Peter Charles Waters, Henry Robert
Matfield, George Harry
Rockfellow,Engene Fnr.0018 Watson, Charles Ohaoocey
MoDonald, Donald Roy
Wertheimer, Isaac
Schneider , Arnold •
McDonald, J. Wade
Edmond
Wescott,
borne
Georae.Os
Scribner,
Alu.
Samuel
,
McDowell
Whitney, Edward Ellsworth
Seifert, John Richard
McGorck, Edward
Whitson, William Wesley
Mc Williams, Joseph Green Selover, Sidney
Whiteoo, John lV
Shaft'er, Eugene Ernest
Middleton, George
Wood, James David
Sterne, Charles Embrey
Millard, Fordyce Rost
Morris, Arthor Adolphos Stewart, William Wallace Wootten, John Bennett
Wrlghi, Ralph Leone
Storey, William Henry
Moree, Ephraim Weed
Yoong, John Alford-18 6.
Morton, Riobard Charles Strasaborger, Nathan
FELLOW ORA1!'1':

..

Fos, Willard Newhall -1.

Chamberlain, Wilson
Doyle, George Allen
Hanbory, John Davie

Bonaaker, Wm. Jeft'ereoo
Little, John McDowell

ENTERED APPRENT IOES:

Roark, james Alexander
Stratton, James-7.

RESTORED :

McKay, Robert St. John-2.

L,yle, William Posey

WITllDRAWN :

Collier, William Bell
Foster, George Simpson

Green, John Wesley
J ohoson, Ed ward Jewett

McKay, Robert St. John
McRae, John Ann-6.

Meinecke, Henry William

901

ST. JOHN' S LODGE , No. 37.
Yreka, 81aklyoa Voanty.

Stated Mutinga, first Saturday in each month.
Oli'FIVER S1

Allen Newton, Senior J)eaoon
George Dexte~ Botler, M<UJter,
~eromeMPeroy Chorohill, &nior Warden, Lonie Philip Scheid Junior ]);noon
14.ame.s :cellos Powe!'ll, Jun. Warden, Frederick Elijah W~deworth Marahal,
William Watson p
aor1ce eooer, 1reasurer,
owere, Ste'llJar<la
D . 1K
Manasseh Bleeper, Set1'1'etary
,
.
Same I pennedy,
Alonzo Emery Raynes Oha:,-in
Tyler.
ellet,
amue
•
,,...
•

f•

Paat Ma•ter81

Manasseh Bleeper,
John Paehborg,
Oartls Hooper Pyle,
Samuel Pellet,

Lonie Philip Beheld,
Fred'k Elijah Wadsworth
George Dexter Bntler, '

Allen Newton,
Samoel Strother Williams
'
Edward Donaghy.

MASTER MASONS:

Grieez, Peter Nicholas
Ackerman, Frank Smith
Richardson, Jaruea Albert
Harvey, Abram
Beet, William
Richardson, James Boch'o
Hawkins, Austin
Bradley, John Taylor
Richardson, Sidney
Henry, Charles .Ashman
Boll, John Osias
Rotter, Jl!llse Brooks
Lonie
Heaelg,
Obaodler, Elmer Rolla
Schwatka , Andrew Edward
Jones, Thomae
Ohnrohill, Jesse Warren
Sohwatka, Heory'Edward
Kegg, John
Ol~per, John Christian
Shattock, Silas
Dav~e, Alphonse Geo. Wash. Kendall, Edward John
Soathworth, Thomas Benton
Lomes
Kioemao,
Dav~e, Henry Levy
Spengler, Charles
Laird, William Thomas
Davis, Jesse Francia
Spengler, Frederick
Long, Jamee Franklin
Denny, Joseph Vance
Tebbe, George Albert
Martin, Brice McClendon Tebbe, William Edward
Dlggl.ea, Henry Emit
N ordhelm Lonie
Dargm, Isaac Allard
Terry, George Thomas
'
Fitohette Oharlee Lee
. ::~~eiiHerb't Roeboroogh Tyler, Gnetavne Adolphos
Fox, Jam'es William
Wallace, Emerson Henry
Ri h •d eEnry Belden
Grisez, Frank Aogost
Ward, Kenneth Lesten-6 ,.
c ar 8 • van

Heilbron, John Reny Fred'k
Lonie, Isidor

Timmon1, Alfred James

Wilson, Frank Belgle-3·

DIED:

Brown, Henry Jaoob
Clark, John Milton
Ewing, William Alexander

To the Grand Lodge of California.

FELLOW ORAFTS:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT 01' DUES:

Mo.Milan, George Hiram

1896.]

Sotherlaod, David
Wyatt, Charles 0 - 7.

Qairk, Johp-2.

ENTERED APPRENTI OES 1

Ball, Edgar
Griftlo, Franklin Robert

Jollen, Jnlieu Augaet
WITHDRA WN:

Goiibert, Thomas Henry-1.

.Miller, John-4.

902

Returns of the Stibordinate Lodges

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1896.J

[Aug. 1,

903

FELLO W CRAFT S:

SAN TA CRU Z LOD GE, No. 38.
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz Coun ty.

Stated Mutin

Stevens, Freder ick La~renoe

LiDBcott, John William
Mattison, Frank

Briggs, Herbe rt Fisk

ga, Saturday of or nat preud ing Full Moon.

Elbon, Harrold Frank -2.

WITHD RAWN :

Oonlt, John Howard

OFFIC ERS1

Henry Joseph Godfrey, Senior .Deacon,
Beojamin Anthony Plant, Master,
Edgar Hobar t, Junior Deacon,
n,
Warde
..
Sen
Joseph Mathias Speddiog,
Urlal Schermerhorn Nichols, Marshal,
Herbe rt Every Cox, Junior Wardlln,
John Parker TwiRt, i Stewarda
John Werner, Tre!llUrer,
'
~
George Statller,
ary,
Secret
Bias,
Henry
William
Bernhard Wise, '111ler.
Past Maste ra:
Cathers Drnmmond Folsom,
d Swift West,
Edwar
,
Porter
g
Ge9rge Keatin
John Severio,
,
Porter
Ray
William
Samuel Barnet,
Thompson Wilson Drullard.
n,
Freder ick William Lnoas, Oscar Leona rd Gordo

Still, Herbe rt Oharl es-4.

ENTER ED APPRE NTICE S:

Dnnlap, George

Moore, Th~mae Walke r-3.

SUSPE NDED FOB.;NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Blum, Isaac
Cnrtis, Leonard
Craig, Andrew

Eft'ey, Rober t
Hager , Benjamin Sanford
Mathews, Theodore Vinton

Makinney, Hampton Everet t
Nash, Wllliam .T-8.

DIED:

Daubenbis, John- 1.

Trask, Joseph (:1. J..)-L

MASTE R MASONS:

Monlton, John Bisbee
Freshonr, Josep h Terra
Anderson, Charles Lonie
Oliver, William
Angell, Fenner Almerion Gamble, William W
s
Garret t,Edwa rd Huntington Olsen, Peter Sophn
Baker, Charles
Job Edwar d
Pettit,
adam
ist,
Gilchr
Arnold
l
Bartle tt, Samne
Planclch, Nicolie Antone
Griswold, Selden
Basey, John Clinton
Porter , Benjamin Franklin
s
Dongla
William
,
Haslam
Baxte r, Robert Jamee
Powell, Rolla
Hinde, Alfred Joseph
Billadan, Joho HetirY
Randall, Horace
Hinde, Peter Richmond
Bowman, Edward
Rice, Coffee Adams
Joseph
Frank
ann,
Hoffm
.
l
Briggs, Jamee Rossel
Ruef!, Gns. Ad. Karl Theo.
Lewin
Joseph
Jonas,
Brooks, Joseph Terry
Rnlofaoo, Charles Herman
Jones, Albert
Brown, William
Rnesell, William
Jorgen sen, Jorgen
Burke, Bartemas
Schroe der, Charles
Thos.
s
Charle
trick,
Kirkpa
Calo, Jamee Henry
Schwartz, Joseph
J'r.
in,
Benjam
t,
Knigh
Chace, John Rufns
Sherwood, Charles Henry
Kron, Henry Freder ick
Chamberlain, Philander
Snyder, Angnstns Charles
Lemieux, Lewis
Christofanini, Antone
Soper, John
Henry
s
Charle
n,
Lincol
Adams
Clark, Henry
Steen, Jacob
Jay
o
Orland
n,
Lincol
Coblentz, Felix
Steinmetz, Charles
Lorenzen, Cody
Cohen, Aron
Still, Arthu r
Lorenzen, George
Dake, Lawrence John
Stribling, Philip Thomas
Lorenzen, Lawrence
Darling, Barbe r
Sullivan, John Thomas
Arthur
Edwin
,
Lundy
Dutton, James Lewis
on, Albion Paris
Swant
William
nd,
Maitla
Dntton, James Marshall
Thayer, Truman Ransom
Marshal, Albert Edward
Ely, Frank William
Martin, Charles Christopher Thompson, Richard
Ely, William
Thompson, William
Mason, Lewis Tracy
Martin
Ennor, John
Daniel Hawk
Tront,
ns
Yarma
Joseph
ams,
McAd
Esty, James Dnncain
, Richard
Weller
Gny
s
Thoma
ary,
McCre
F11gan, Pierce Bye
Wenck, William Henry
e
Farnham, Enoch George Menefee, Frank Georg
August Willey, Henry
Fast, John Henry Adolph Middleton, Edward
• Williams, Edward Lawrence
Louis
Henry
ton,
Middle
Fergneol!-, Daniel
r Willie, Ellery
Fackle
William
ton,
Middle
Fischer, Antone
Winkle, Henrv -120.
Mikel, Sidney F!!lton
Fitch, Ewin
ker
Whitta
Bteph.
an,
Forem

YUB A LOD GE, No. 39.
.lll&ry aYille , Yuba Coun ty.

.
Stated Meetings, .fiTBt Wedneaday in eac'/i' month
OFFIC ERS1

•

Elmer Ellsworth Stone Maat6r
Frank W Potter , Senior Deacon,
Gny Heancastle Stoke~. Senwr' Warden, Edward Davidson Mvrer, Junior Deacon,
Peter Engel, Junior Warden,
Thomas Bngh Kernan, Marahal
'
John Charles Lombard, :zreaaurer,
William Arthnr Fenwick i
' f Sletearda,
Richard Belcher,
James Fred Eastm an, &oret ary
William Henry Stoy, Ohaplain, '
A.mos Fisher, fyler.
Andrew Middlemess Shields
'
Charles E Stone,
Charles Milton Patterson,
Andrew Jackson Binney,

Paet Maate ra 1
Thomas Hugh Steel,
Jesse Beech Fuller,
David Powell,
Ortis Freder ick Lee,

Henry Dietrich King,
George William Hall
Rnel Holloway Wag~oner,
Samuel Josiah Smith Rodgers.

MASTE B MASONS:

B · RI chard Edwin
·
Earnshields• V1'ctor Le w1e
evan,
B di • Bamnel Henry
Engel John Phiii
ra ey
Britfan, Rob't Edward Lee Ewell: Samuel P
.
Fa Edwa
Cory, Perry
rd
y,
David
ton
Creigh
s
Feathe rly, Mathew Thoma
A.lb
Creps w.'11·
M •
Fronk Ge
ert
I IBID
'
.
Ba
Frost, 'sim~:!eLo::;n
Swaim
Ba~~w~n, George Bellew Dallam, Joseph
1
:inoen zo
Jud'n
eorge Thomas
ner,
Br
John
Dixon
Beachgood, Charles Henry
apgood, Charles
•
.

.Anderson , John Edmond
Armer, H erman
!rnold , Thomae Jefferson
rp, Henry
Aubrey, Frank Cornellns
Ayer, Leonard Bernard

latobel~:r~~~:!::~

~::::.r~d;i :~~c:nz~ward ~l:ella,

904

Returns of the Sul>ordinate Lo<iges

[Aug. 1,

Heintzen, George
McClintock, William
Skinner, Randolph Whitney
Henn, William Theophilus McMortry,Jo)l.nVan Anglen Sliogeby, William
Hopkins, Allen Brnecop
McNott, John Fleming
St. John. Enos Frost
Hortop, Philip
]\{eek, Emerson Emmet
Stoddard, William Seward
Hutchins, Gavin Walker
Menz, Albert Julias
Stratton, Comellas Allen
Hutchins, Jamee Walker
Millar, Rober\
Suggett, Allen Holmaa
Kaaugh, Joshua
Moon, Benjamin
Thom, David, Jr.
Knight, Edgar Blake
Neal, George Washington Thompson, Ernest Briceno
LIDby, Charles Herbert
Pascoe, Oharlee Flood
Townsend, Heµry Boy Dan
Lipp, Albert Powell
Peifer, John
Webb, Charles Aaguetae
Logan, Anderson Dabney Prickett, Enos Samuel
Wheelock, John Dexter
Malloch, Henry
Rideout, Benjamin Norman White, Asher B~rde~92.
Masterman, William Henry Seeger, William
FELLOW ORAFT:

Buckelew, William Clayton-1.
ENTERED APPRENTIC ES :

Robel, Charles Christopher

Smith, Francie Edwin-2.
DIED:

F'alll:, Herman

Stoodley, Oscar Frederlck- 2.

SACRA MENTO LODGE , No. 40.
Sa.,ramen to, Sacramen to County.

Stated Muting1, jirat F'rida11 in each month.
OFFICER S 1

,

Jamee Buchanan Gift'en, Senior DeaOOll,
Joseph Wilcoxoa Hughes, Master,
Charles Wesley Frazier, Junior Deacon,
John Newell Blair, Senior Warden,
John Kennedy Grinton, Junior Warden, William Frederick Wiard, Marahal,
Charles Wardle Morton, l Stewards,
William Monroe Petrie, 7Tea.aurer,
Richard Blight Prideaux, f
John TGrlflltt.a, Becretar11,
Thomae Bose, Tyler.

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of OaUfO'l"niia.

905

Burdick, Joseph
Hayford, James Barrows Perkln1, Thomae Oalley
Ohlperowsky, Max
Holbrook, Charles
Phillipe, George
Qlark, George Harvey
Holmes, Henry T
Pierson, Henry H
Olark, William E
Hopkine, Edward Carmi
Pond, James Haven
Colburn, Jamee .A
Hornlein, Hngo AqglUlt
Porter, Olive William
·Conaway, George WinOeld Hornlein, Max Edward
Read, John Addison
Cook, Hiram'
Howell, Sidney Algernon Reeves, John Wesley
CoUirio, William Kip
Humphrey, .A.uthoay Boyd Reith, John
Crocker, Hen~y Smith
Hoot, John Alexander
Robin, Charles
Croly, James
Jones, Perry Evert
Ross, David 8
Darling, Henry Job
Jnst, John Peter
Ruedy, John
Darwin, John
Kellogi;r, Harry Welle
Sanborn, Arthur Byron
Davie, Jamee Gilliland
Kimberly, David Oalvin
Scbaw, William
Denham, Jame·s Flemming Knights, William Rudd
Sonlp, John Peter
Denton, Oharlea Henry
Knowles, Charles Lonnes Bhwoerer, Louis Martin
JJleneeo,Ge o.ErnestAa gnst Laine, Joseph Regi11t
Scbonefelt, William Domer
Dixon, William Henry
Larue, Hugh McElroy
Siebenthale r, Philip
Drew, Nathaniel Lafayette Locke, Geo. Washington
Sime, Joseph
Dann, George
Lucaa, James Franklin
Smith, Frank Auguetne
Dwyer, Michael
·Labre, Charles .A
Snell, Channcey Newell
Farr, David
Lyon, Edward
Snell, Frank Scott
Flemming, Frank
MacDonald , John Alex.
i:;tanley, Leander
George, Wilbur Forest
Maddison, William John
Steinmeyer , Fred'k Wilhelm
Gillis, Dugald
Mayo, J oeeph Eli
Stephenson , William Albert
Givens, John Ely
McKelvey, Charles
Stobbs, Charles RuBBell
Grant, Duncan
Molter, Jacob Philip
Turton, William
Green, John Albert
Miller, John(}
Vaughan, Richard
Gundrum, Frederick
Miller, Peter Andrew
Wallace, Henry Kilborn
Gath, Joseph, Jr.
Miller, Willlam Buchanan Wallqulet, Charles John
Hack, Henry Leonard
Nash, Hiram De Witt
Warren, Wllliam O
Hagely, John
Nelson, Christian
Weinstock, Barris
Bale, Evert Wilbern
Nicholv.s, Jamee Btoart
White, Thomll8 Hibbard
Hale, Marshal, Jr.
Nichole, Arthur Lambard Wilcoxson, Jeft'erson
Bale, Prentiss Cobb
Odell, Merrill Franois
Williams, Calvin Fletcher
Hale, Reabeo Brooke
Olney, Cephas Charles
Wiiiie, William Ladd
Bammer,Ho eheimSchm nc'r Ostrander, Charles Edward W!!Bon, William
Hatch, Wilber Mark
Payen, Lonie
Wood, Willlam-15 1.
Bayes, George William
FELLOW CRAFT:

Guernsey, Amaea Allen-1.

Pa•t Maatera•

Jay Roehell Brown,
Powell Samuel Lawson,
Rufae Burnham Harmon,
Geo. Howard Winterbarn ,
Wm. Durrant Knight.a;
Jamee O'Neil,
Richard Cutrer Irvine,
William Monroe Peµ-ie,
John Walter Boyd,
John T Griffitte,
Edmund C.AWnsoo, P.<J.M., Evaoder Berry Willie,
Richard Palmer Borr,

Benjamin Norton Bagby,
Edward Jamee Croly,
Chester Walter Eldred,
John King,
William Frederick Wiard,
Melanchton ,J Cortie.

Ball, Thomae Dustin
Barret\, J oho
Bassett, William Walter
Boyd, Thomas

Denton, Charles Henry

Bragg, Henry William
Brand, George Sumner
Briggs, William Ellery
Brown, John Pemper

Nicholv.s, James Stuart-S.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

:Billingsley; Urban Clark
Henley, Michael Jamee

Storm, Matthew Drysdale

Williams, William George-cl.

DIED:

Brooks, l>aniel Joseph

KASTER MASONS:

Acock, Thomae La Fayette
Andrew, Adam
Appleton, Joseph
Atkineon,Ed mund ManeOehl

RESTORED:

Clark, William E

25

Lambert. FrIi.Dk, Ell~

Wilson, John Andrew-3.

•

906

Returns of the Subordinate LodgeJJ

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the (han d Lodge of OaUfornia.

907

MAR TIN EZ LOD GE, .No. 41 ·
LOS ANG ELE S LOD GE, No. 42.

Marti nez, Cont ra Costa Coun ty.

Stated Meetings, Satur day of or

nezt

'P"'

eceding Full Moon.

Lo11 AnJre lea, Loa ADJl" llea Coun ty.

.

OFFI CERS :

William .Sewa ll Welle, Ma.Bter,
Alber t Edmond Blum, Senior Warden,
John Babtiste Tennent, Junior Warden,
Lewis Oass Wittenmeyer, 1reas urer,
Max Blum. Sec'N'tar!/•
Eugene w. Stoddard, Chaplain,

Henry Victor Alvarado, Ser&~ DetlCOI'&,
Charles Clark Hickman, JumOf' Deacon,
John Williams, .Marshal,
Seeley Jamee Bennett, } Stewardl,
George Be.mes Wolford,
William Henry Buckley, Xylilr.

Pa11t Maat ers•

George Atwood Sherm an,
William Sewall Welle,

Lewis Cass Wittenmeyer,
William Henry Buckley,
William John Dongle.a,

Seeley James Bennett,
Hugh Pugh Edwards,

Baldwin, Barry
Be~ndette, Josep h
Bede., Pan!
Blum, Gabriel
Blum, Myrtil
Blum, Simon
Borland, Robert Burns
Boyd, John Wheaton
Bragdon, Edmund
Bragdon, Percy Stevens
Buell, Jamee Langston
Buttner, Louis Napoleon
Carothers, Jamee Henry
. Carpe nter, Alexander
Carte r, George Edward
Catlet t, Theodore Scott
Cousins, CharleB Samuel
Cramer, Harry Theodore
Crosby, William A
Dn!fy, William Josep h
Eve.DJ!, Levi

Evans; Rober t Griffith
Neust adter, Bernard
Fasse tt, William
• Overfield, George Smith
Ferna ndez, Bernardo
Overfi eld, Henry Dnnicake
Field, William A
Paul, Alvin A
Frase r' J oho Alexander
Pavol ine, Giro lino
Fraser, Reuben Alexander · Pollock, Alexander
Fletch er
Guy, John William
Prosser, Watkins L
Hale, Reuben Lyon
Rhine, Charles
Hale, William Alanson
Rhine, Jacob
Hewit t, Amos Lorenzo
Riley,_Jahiel Stackhouse
Bough , William Jerom e
Sedgwick, Benjamin
Ipewitch, John
Swiha rt, George
Jacob s, Samuel Beer
Tagga rt, Harry Wallace
Jacqn lth, William Clark
Thomas, David Randolph
Jones, Josep h Philip
Tinning, William S
Jones, Madison Ralph
Turne r, Benjamin Coffin
Lasell, Erastu s Perkin s
Ulsh, Reuben Leonard
Lucas, John Goncolves
Walker, Arthu r Richa rdson
Lyford, George Henry
Weiss, Richard Andrew
Menefee, Orville Ivin
Werne r, Albert Younger
Moiles, Theodore Despard Wolcott, William
Milton

MASTER MASONS:

-7!1.

FELLO W CRAFTS :

Barre tt, J obn Peter .
Booih, William Franc is

Downer, Edward 1l

Bertola, J oho Victors
Dorn, David Oren

Dunham, Franklin H
Marsh, Joshu a

Upham, Bradford Hervey
-4.

ENTER ED APPRE NTICE S :

Rehne rt, Charl es William
Rossell, Edwa rd Weld -6.

RESTO RED:

Thomas, David Rando lph-1 .
SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF

Gartle y, Alonzo Lam b

DUES :

Tongis, Chrie tophe r-2.
DIED :

Weiss, Isidor -1,

Stated Meeti11ga, firat .Monday in each month

.

OFFl lJERS :

Simon Ce.hen, Maatsr,
Jacob Emma Waldeck, Senior Deacor&,
Abraham Moses Edelman, StJn. Warden, John
Ludwig Adolph Last, Jun. Deacon,
- · - - - - , Junior Warden,
Patric k Martin Darcy, Marshal,
Edward AnthonJ: Preus s, Treamrer,
Ed ward Hall Miller, l Steward.a
Daniel John Carr, Set1rBta:ry,
Thomas Olitford,
I
'
Abraham Wolf Edelman, Ohaplain,
John Mcllmoil, Tylllr.
Samuel Prage r,
Thomas Edwin Rowan,
Charles Prage r,
Samael Calvert Foy,
John Goldsworthy,

Paat Maste ra 1

Abraham Wolf Edelman,
Ansel Mellen Bragg ,
Thomas Strohm,
Thomas J11mes Cuddy,
James Frank lin Burns,
MASTER MASONS:

Oar! Frederick Angast Last,
Edwa rd Anthony Preuss,
Abraham Marx,
Max Wasserman.

Anderson, John
Enz, Charles August
Hirsh, Bernard
Appel, Natha n Benjamin Evans, David 1'
Hubba rd, Henry Cotler
Baldy, Alexander Jordan Eyre.ad, Erne.noel
Illich, Jerem iah
'Ballade, Pascual
Eyre.ad, Joseph
Jackso n, John Eugene
:Barnett, William Theodore Fento n, Henry
Jaege r, Lonie John Fred'k
Bayer, Josep h
Fitzgerald, Pan! Henry
Jeffries, Willia::o Thomas
Behrendt, Oasper
Fraze r, Alexander
Joyce , Thomas Jellerson
Bell, George H
Fricke, William Charles
King, John
Bernstein, Josep h Alfred
Gabriel, Adolph Jonas
Lane, Frank Josep h
Blind, Philllp
·
Galley, John Tracy
Laventhal, Eli11s
llume nberg , Samuel Purdy Germain, Edwa
rd
J,ebman, .Martin
Brill, Josep h
Germain, Eugen e
Leo, John
Brown, James
Glass, John Malcolm
Levy, Eli Julius
Buffum, William Maxwell Goldschmidt,Herm
'n l1irsch Levy, Felix
Burchell, Leon
Goldschmidt, Hogo
Levy, Lonie
('ampbell, John Henry ,
Goldschmidt, Marcus
Leyy, :Michael
Carbone, Lonie
Goldwater, Jnlios Abraham Llewellyn, Willia
m
()arson, George
Gotthelf, Aaron
Longnevan, Jos. Beaoreg'd
Choate, James Jellerson
Gotthelf, David
Magone, Belmar
Ol11rk, Thomas Berna rd
Grimth, John McKim
.Mahoney, John James
Cohen, Benjamin
Griffiths, Thomas
.Maier, Joseph
Cohn, Harris
Griggs, William Franc is
Malcolm, William
Ooho, Caspar
Griswold, Lloyd D
Marshatz, Siegfried G
Colling, Benjamin
Gross, Frede rick
Marx, Ralph Edwin
CJooper, Alfred
Hanscom, Lewis P
Me.sac, Theophilus
Corwin, James Spenc er
Hauch , Isaac
Mayor, Frank William
Defty, William Emanuel
Hanerwaae, John
McOormick, Matthew
Dryden, Guy Frank
Heitchew, Abraham B
McCracken, Jell Tranviile
Eckert, Rober t
Hellman, Isaias William·
.M:cF11rland, Walter
Ellis, Herbe rt Henry .M:ax'll Hellmann, James
Wolf z:li1 Mciunis, August (}
lillliott, James McCandless Hernandez, Antho
ny
Meyer, Bamael

908

Returnt of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Portog,l, Adolph
Smith, Nelson
Rademacher, Frank
Solomon, Heyman
Radican, Bernard
Solomon, John ;IJ
Reeder, Joseph Clark
Stanton, Edwin
Roee, Trnman Harrison
Stern, Emaooel Lionel
Rosin, Benjamin
Snmmerland, Theodore
Roth, Edmond
Switzer, Commodore Perry
Rossell, Henry
Van Dlngetee, Rodolph
Ryan, Michael Edwin
Weldon, ATthur
Satter, Anton
Werner, Max
Scheerer, Oonrad
Wharton, Meebeck
Bohleeeinger, Jacob
Williamson, Geo.Washingt'o
Scbooe, John
Wlee, Walter Doree\t
Schweitzer, Oonrad Franz Witkind, Simon
Flea.man, Lucien Shaw
Woolacott, Henry Jobn
Shang, William Henry
Wright, Franole Marion
Shaw, Thomae William
Wright, Wallace Johnson
Smith, Benj. Franklin PorterYapp, Frederick George
-170.

Michelson, George
Moir, Frank
Moore, Walter Soott
Morrie, John Wood
.Morris, Jolios Lools
'Morrie, Moritz
Neitzke, Erne et
Newmark, Harrie
Newmark, Max Nathan
Noel, Jamee
N ort·JD, Ieaao
Norton, Moeee
O'Hanloo, Jobo Robert
Pavkovlob, John Lnke
'Philbin, John Andrew
Platt, Francie Edward
Platt, J eBBe
Polaski, Samoel

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oal,iforni,a.

909

Pad lllaatera 1

Andrew Jackson Warf,
John Adolphne Fisher,

William John Jewell.

J oho Burdis,
Damaeooe Bennett,
MASTER MASONS:

Berry, Reuben Kelley
Coblentz, Oerf
Coblentz, David
Cox, Joseph Francis
Haae, John
Hammell, Bradford

Harvey,George Washington
Kleiner, Frank Joseph
McKenzie, William Burgess
Miller, Daniel Peter
Opie, John

Peterson, Charles Edward
Porter, George Nelson
Salmon, George Washington
Skinner, William Henry
Tripp, Stephen-28.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Bidstrup, Ferdinand Theodor-1.

FELLOW CRAFT:

How, John Emmett-I.

MOUNT MORIAH LODGE, No. 44.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Smith, Isaiah Phillip

Oooper, George-John
Davis, Alexander

Sylvaone, Joseph Ennis-4..

San JJ'ranot.eo, Sa• Frand•co Con.n.tJT.

Stated Jluting11, fir11t Wednuday in each month.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Freeman, Edwin Herbert
Hall, Henry 01.&ytoo

Platt, Charl·ee Decatur
Wolf, Selgfried-6.

Mendoleohn, Morris Aaron
Newman, Frank Herbert
WITHDRAWN:

Shefte!, Maro~2.

Flynn, Jol1n Bernard
DIED:

Dneommon, Charles Lonie
Frank, Samnel

King, William John
Maguire, John Francie

Riggs, William Henry
Walker, Lucien Eli-6.

HIRAM LODGE, No. 43.
El Dorado, El Dorado Co11n.ty.

Stated M~ting11, Saturday of or nat precMing Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

John Bordh, Maater,
Caswell Clay Cantrell, Senior Deacon,
Gerhard Heinrich Dlithmano, Br. Warden, Damaecne Bennett, Junior Deacon,
William John Jewell, Junior Warden,
Theodore Oharlee Morebeok, Mar1hal,
William Fletcher Cotton, Trea.s~er,
Willi,am He.nry Pallett, } Stewards,
William Y-eadon, Secretary,
Lewis Madison Briggs,
J oho Adolphne Fisher, Tyl6r.

OFFICERS1

Joseph Lambert Crittenden, Maller,
J oho Frederiok Schroth, Senior Deacon,
Edgar Cortiea Sutlilfe, Senior Warden,
Adolph Eberhart, Junior Deaaon,
William Edward Boyer, Junior Ward8n, Oharlee John Webster, Marshal,
John David Rlohards, 7reaaurer,
Hohn Henry Rawe,
l Bte11Jards,
Theodore Frolioh, Secretary,
John Oglesby Thomae, f
Benjamin Franklin Clarke, Ohaplain,
John D'Arcy (orGoldenGate,No. 30),7}il6r.
Past llla•ter• 1

George Oraw HlokoI,
Daniel Henry Everett,
John Charles Jens,
John Adam Rossell,
David Mathews Rioharde, Frank Randolph Whitcomb,
William Gorham DoolitM.e, Theodore Frolich,
Aaron Lewie Chamberlin,
Davie Londerback,
John Greig Leghorn,
Dan Joseph Edgar,
Joseph Lippman,
Frank William Rossbach, Robert Wilson ·l[orphy,
Paul Goe, Adolphus Beiler, Thos.Jelfenon Shackleford, Peter Bock Nagle.
Harvey Mathews,
MASTER MASONS:

Abrahamson, Peter
Adler, Adolph
Alcjeraoo, David Harri&
Ames, Frank Holmes
Amee, Frank Mortimer
•Anderson, Carl Alfred
Badger, William Gilman
Banner, Victor
Barnard, Frank
Bakke, Severns Johnson

Bass, Thomae Jelfereon
Bradley, John.Samuel
Batohelder,Nathan Preeo'tt Brooks, William Parker
Bell, Joseph Vincent
Brown, John Radclifl
Bemis, Charles Cook
Borke, Edmund William
Bennett, Robert Hazlitt
Borke, William Gordon
Bergen, Alexander
Burnham, Jamee William
Bernstein, Solomon
Boeh, Hyman Philip
Belz, Johannes
Calden, Goy Chester
Bosworth, Henry Martin Calvin, William Henry
Bozio, Orlu.ndo
Oevaeco, Giovanni Battista

910

Returns of the Svhordinate LO<lges

[Aug. 1,

Pedersen, Cl:.rietian
Hofman, Henry
Chaseagne, Leon
Pei¥r, Jaoob
Holladay, Samnel W
Cochran, Jamee Henry
Connelly, Francie Joseph Holmes, Charles Stewart Prioe, Benjamin Tudfil
Price, Thomae
Holmes, Jamee Gilmoor
Cornwall, Frank
Radston, George
Homer, James Lord
Collins, George
Radeton, Joline
Conniogham, Tho~. Stanley Hooter, James
Rasey, Charles William
Hyde, _Ale:i:ander
Carrier, Amoe
Reamer, Frederick
Hyman, Presley Corbyn
Davie, Charles Arthor
Richards, Harry Griffin
Irving, Samoel
Davi•, Henry Laurens
Riley, Cornelios
Jacobs, Albert
Davis, John Warner
Rolls, John Sellers
Jacobs, Henry
Davis, Morris White
Jenkel, John Rudolph Ang. Rosenstock, Samuel W
Dennis, Frank Baskins
Rossbach, Charles Henry
Johnson, Otto
Dennis, Samoel William
Johnson, Otto John Henry Rosecamp, Hermann
Diers, Peter Matthias
Rothchild, Maorice Alg'non
Jones, George Edward
Diez, Castor Cayetano
Boggles, John Edward
Kelly, John
Dixon, William John
Sawyer, Ebenezer Davie
King, Robert Murray
Doane, Micah
Schlesinger, Bert.
King, William Rosaell
Downe, John
Schlo88, Benjamin
Klar, Frank
Eaton, Frederick Ward
Schmidt, Valentine
Laventhal, Samnel
Eisenberg, Isidor
Schroeder, Johann Louie
Lebenbaum, Louis
Ellery, Epes
Schnhmborg, Adolph
Emerson, John Augostus Levy, Berman
Seibel, Frederick Lacey
Lewie, Charles Henry
Felx, John
Seibel, Philipp
Lillie, Augostns Seaborg
Figel, Joseph
Seidner, Philip
Linne, John Conrad
Finlayson, John Ernest
Shafer, Henry
Lippman, George W
Fiske, William Henry
Siebe, John Henry
Lox, Frederick
Flynn, Thomas Emmett
Sladky, Josef Adam
:MacFarland, John
Foy, John J
Smith, Herbert LeBaron
McKay, Alexander
Frank, Emanuel Max
McKenoa, Thomas D!Jlon Smith, John Henry
Freeman, Elisha
Garwood, William Thomson McKenzie, John Thomas Bpsncer, Frank Aaron
Stark, William Hende!'lon
HcLaoghlin, Michael
Geist, William
Steinman, Bernard
Gilbert, George Shoebridge_McLean, John
Stephens, William Jenkin
McNab, Jamee
Gilman, Samoel Walter
Stonehill, Edward Bernard
Medan, Julius Henry
Goldberg, Jacob
Soch,-Francis Lund7
Goodman, Theodore Henry Merrill, Isaac McGaw
Swain, Henry Olay
Merry, Thomas
Gordan, Jacob
Trobock,Bartholo!JJ8WNich.
Meyer, Louis
Hacke, William Conrad
Vaenberg, Abraham
Meyer, Marcus Cauffman
Harper, Fred Fogg Gale
Montealegre,Carlos Fr'no'o Van Dozer, Abraham Perry
llarrleon, Randolph
VanSlcklen,Fred.Wetherbee
Hyers; Henry Brannen
Harsball, Gostav
Voorman, Henry
Nagle, Charles Grant
Hartshorn, Elbridge
V-ouSchmidt,Alex.Walde'r
Normand, Emile Henri
Hanser, Albert M·a ria
White, Martin
.Haveley, William Thomas Ohmen, William Henry
Hellstrommer, Obas. Henry Obnstein, Oscar Joi.Emil E. Wilkie, Alfred John Rigby
Wilson, Eudoras Joseph
Olsen, Bent
Hendrickson, Olaus
Wilson, Russell Jones
Osborn, Oorra Mablon
Henry, Oarl Albert
Woodside, Alexander
Osborn, Robert Folger
Hewitt, William Rainey
Woolley, Lell Hawley
Palache, Gilbert
Heyneman, Berman
Wolzen, Diedrich Heinrich
Palmer, Henry
Higgins, Stephen H
Wolzen, Frederick George
Parker, David Stout
Hlghton, Henry Edward
Yager, Frank
Pearce, William
Hill, Edwin Potter
York, William-218.
Peck, Philip
Hodgen, Joseph Dupuy

1896.J

To f.h.e Grafid Lodge of Oalifornl.a.

911

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Bryan, William. Henry

Maguire, Eugene Burne

Ra4be, Frederick Otto-3.

ENTERED APPRENTIOEI! :

Bergevin, Alexander Morgan
Brown, William Henry

Kimball, John Carpenter

Love, John Lord-4.

RESTORED:

Bnrnham, James William-1.
WITHDRAWN;

Gray, Richard

Hay, William Baudmau-2.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Read, John Herbert
Fisk, Alexander
Barnes, John
Boclmam, Edmund Hinckley Palmer, Edwin Campbell Shaeffer, Edgar Werner-6.
DIED:

Carr, Edwin Wallace
Fiske, Henry Mortimer
Goelinsky, Elias
Rener, Philipp

Johnston, William David
Kotz, Gabriel Marks
Raimond, Reoben Edgar
Reid, Jobn Woods

Sack, John Christian
Schenrer, Christian
Schwark,.Wilb.Carl Hen11ing
-11.

CRESCENT CITY LODGE. No. 45.
Oreacent City, Del Norte County,

Stated Meeting•, Monday of or ~ preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERSt

Drory White Bice, Senior DeacOfl,
Talbot Wesley Patty, Master,
Phylander Lelghten Elwell, Sen. Warden, Ethelred Lundy Magruder, Jun. .lJeaoon,
Elibens Nelson Hagroder, Mar1hal,
James Brooking, Junior Warden,
William Harrison Woodbury, i
Jacob Marhoffer, 1rea1urer,
f St6'UJQ.rds,
William Bart Hamilton,
Greenleaf Cortis, Beuretary,
Bogh Maxwell, 7}/ler.
Paat Maalera i

Wm. Harrison Woodbury,
Greenleaf Cortis,
Ellbeue Nelson Magroder,

Maximilllan Lipowitz,
Talbot Wesley Patty,

Hugh Maxwell,
Drury White Rice.

MASTER MASONS :

Ohilds, John Leon
DePoy, Anson Angustns
DePuy, Edward Spencer
Dingle, Raimond Reuben
Sdwarde, Bugh Jones
Kostel, Oasimer Beringer
Lake, J'oseph Llnc~ln

Lind, Frank
Mayer, Gottlieb
McVey, Joeeph Hutson
Nelson, Charles
Ohlson, Victor
Peacock, George Henry
Peveler, Peter Henry

Sartwell, Dogald Stewart
Seligman, Solomon Gassion
Tack, Nicholas, Sr.
Tack, Nicholas, Jr.
Tryon, George Edwin
Vorlauder, Ewald
Wolr, William Fraucis-S3.

WITHDRAWN:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Miller, Robert Willis-L

HcVey, Samoel Hotson-1.

•

912

Returns of the Subcrrdinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

To the Grand LO<lge of OaJ,ijornia.

913

MASTER lllAtlONS:

Bays, William Oscar
Britt, Ed ward
Coker, Goold Carlton
Develey, Henry Keynser

TEXAS LODGE , No. 46.
San .Ta.an, Sa..: Benito county.

Stated Meetings, aeoond Saturday in each month.
Thomas Flint, Master,
Richard Ball 'Flint, Senior Dene.in,
Frederick Wm. 'Kemp, Senior Warden, George Holmes Moore, .Junior Deacon,
James Miles, Junior Wardlm,
Roscoe Greene Norton, Mar1hal,
Andrew Abbe, Treasurer,
Dan Wilson, l Stffl.DardB
Charles Gny Carglll, Becretai-y,
I.eon Bullier, f
'
Henry Beger, T111eT'·
P1ut Masters •

Roscoe Greene Norton,
Charles ~uy Cargill,
Baldwin, Thomas Seavy
Burnett, William Fletcher
Canfield, Robert William
Harmon, George Silas
llclntyre, George William

Mitchell, George Francis
Morton, Frank
Ouderkirk, Isaac
Regan, Mark Joseph
Roche, James ~enry

MASTER MASONS :

Stackhouse, Jas. Bpauldin
Weske, Adolph
g
White, Joseph Newton-24..

WITHDRA WN:

OFFICER S:

Thomas Flint, .
Thomas Flint, Jr.

Evans, James
Griffith, Owen William
Kinnear, Merit
Locher, Francis Joseph

Cowan, Gordon Robinson
Davies, Winfield Scott
Ellsworth, John Hinchcllft

Jones, Henry
Bparke, Rubin Moor

Williams, John
Willie.ms, Henry -'1.

DIED:

Humiker, Samuel Mltchell- 1.

James Renderson Aihley.

Russell, George Washington
Sargent, James Petty
Blaysman, Charles Reese
Stewart, Archibald
Wood, William James-28 .

FORBE STOWN LODGE , N o. 50.
Forbeato wn, Batte County.

Stated Mutinga, SaturdaY 0if or nezt preceding .Full .moon.
u
OFFICER S:

DIED:

William John Schultz, Master,
John Milton Finch, Senior
Warden,
Andr~w Lilja, Senior Deacon
Edmond Stocker, Junw W. d
Gabriel William
D
Phillip Bollive.n Treasu
ar en,
Gaylord Smith w. Twogood .,. eahacon,
Al
•
rer,
H
As
• m.ars l,
exander"Ellis Anderson Becreta
enry Clarence
bury Conwell,
'
ry,
Garret
Daley fi Bter.oardti,
Maxwell Gaddis Hill, 'l'yleT'.
•

Price,Junio~

Heritage, Joseph Ogden-1.

-

Paat Mastera '

MICHI GAN CITY LODGE , No. 47.

Wallace Homer <Jhe.ppell, Gaylord
Andrew JSmith
k W' Tw o~ood, Maxwell Gaddis Bill
Alexander Ellis Anderson
ac son Hankms
A d
•
n rew JackB!ID Packard.
David Wash. Braddock, ' Ralph Waldo Emerson, •

Mlchilra n Blatl', Placer county.

MA.STER MASONS •

Stat.ed Matings, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER S:

Frederick Wilbnr Lament, Master,
William Henry Sparks, Ben(or Dea.11on,
Patrick McHale, Senior Warden,
Gilbert Florance Ray, Junior Deacon,
George A.lbert Davies, Junior Warden, Frederick Chester Davidson, Marslial,
Alexander polt, Treaaurer,
William Menzies Cameron, l St 4 dll
Warren Ce.ssius Shain, Secretary,
William Bnckley,
S B'l.D r '
William Martin Ray, Tyler.
Paat Jllaatera:

BeJJjami.n Dulaney DunD&m,
Warren Oe.11Bios Shain,

Alexander Dolt,

Allen, John Emmet
J' kS W
Collins,
John
J~~d~n
: · Napoleon B.•
Ryant, Isae.o Whitmore
Orandall, Abraham Lincoln Kratze; ;~r~I~ Blodgett Schultz, John Fredrick
Garton, Lewis
L'b
' anie Webster Slater, James
Gild
I son, Joseph
Bl
me.cher, Melcboir
McMillan JohnLibero
G'I
ater, Nichole.s Weaver
H~rtme.n, James Albert Muncy J~bn
I more
Smnlln, Sam'! Nesbit Dalla11
B11l, George Washington Reute;sh h M
Sparks, Elijah Brown
Hurles, Smith Hetherington Roberts ~bn, h e.x
, MansW-40
• ra e.m Ferguson '.l'.'hompson
Wilson, Melvin
FELLOW CRAFT :

Morrison, John Re.phe.el-I.
Thornton King.

26

•
DIED:Hitour-1.
Dodson, Thomas

914

ReJurns of the Subordinate Lod,ges

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

'lo tke Grand Lodge of Oaliforn.ia.

915

MASTER MASONS :

ILLINOISTOWN LODGE, No. 51.
Colf'ax, Placer County.

Sta~d Meetings, Fridav of or nea:t pre«ding Full Moon.
OFFICERSt

Amos Sievens, Senior Deacon,
Albert Norris, Master,
Francis Marion Ackerman Ben. Warden, Walter Ray Culver, Junior ])eaoon,
Alexander Oulberson Henry, Jr. Warden, John Bntler, Marahal,
Frank Ellis Jones, l St.ewards
Morris Lobner, TreaBUrer,
'
William Benjamin, f
Walter Lyon Butler, Seureiary,
Edgar Delaney Miner, Tyler.
Paat Mastera•

George Wash'n Applegate, William Bsrrows Hayford, Walter Ray Culver,
Andrew Jackson Ewers.
Darius Ingersoll,
William Benjamin,
.Joho Botier,
Morris Lobner,

Edwards, James Garot
Anderson, Niels
Morton, Albert Sumner
Fim1ey, Ilenry Edward
Bauman, J1icob Henry
Oberti, Joseph
Gapen, John Magee
Berner, .Angust
Perkins, Dorman B
Bronson, Howard Coyier Gitrord, William Leonard Perkins, Herman
Hall, George W~shington Prather, J &mes Hiram
Brown, John Stewart
Brown, .William Bernard Harris, Henry
Beed, Albert Levi
Bnhrme1eter,Henry Frank'n Hatch, Augnstne Timothy
Re.rnolds, Jae. Wrn. Bryson
Campbell,Palm'ton Cornick Hoyt, Julian Buell
Rosh, BAnjamin Franklin
Hunnewell; Freeman
Oapell, James Smith
Shorey, Sumner Augustus
Jnnken, James Noble
Oerkel, Wolf
Staples, Ernest Herbert
Kelley, Kirk Etna ·
Charles, Merrill Stnll
Stephens, William Bell
Leithead James
Chemas, Nicholas
Stewart, Edgar L
Losh, En~ene Albert
Dan~elson, Johan
Stewart, Samuel
Dav188on: William Sherman Malchi, John
Tomasini, Gnilllano
~nkelap~el, Henry Geo, W. Mateer, James Mitchell
Votypka, John
Maynard, Milton Allen
D1nke~p1el, Moritz
Wilson, John Andrew-72.
Downmg, William Green Merrill, Hiram F. Fontaine
FELLOW CRAFT :

MASTER MASONS :

Dysart, John
.Alcorn, Branceford
Baker, William Mandeville Gnpliill, William Willard
Hooper, Thomas
Barrett, George Apeby
Johnson, Gust. Adolphus
Oadjew, Leland
Oampbell,Arohb'd Deverell Lobner, Henry
Christensen, John

Lambert, John Wealey-J.

Perkins, William Stickney
Raymond, Percy Miles
Smith, A.lbert Halliday
Vore, Edmund
Williamson, James Roycraft
-31..

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

WITHDRAWN:

·Hnrlbntt, Ezra Belden-I.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Evans, Oharles Edwin-1.

Gordon, Wllliam-2.

Dinkelspiel, Ed.ward·

•

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Waugh Jam B nj ·

Porter, George Seward
Roberts, William Henry

'

es e amm

Weinberger, Marona-(.

SUSPENDED FOR UNMABONIC CONDUOT :

Beeves, William Wynn Redman-1.

SUISUN LODGE, No. 55.

DIED:

Alden, Engene Beauharnais

CohQ, Jacob

Sulaun, Solano County.

Henderson, Frederick Lewis--3.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
'

OFFICERS:

Albert Alexander Dickie, Master,
Oscar Rapier Coghlan, Senior Warden,
William Coryden Sheldon; Jun. Warden,
Edgar Ernest Long, TrBa5Urer,
Ferdinand William Gabriel, /:leuretary,
Abraham Farr Hitchcock, Ohaplain,

Jerome Bonaparte Richardson, S. Deaoon,
Ohester Wetmore, Junior .Deacon,
William Gustavus Davisson, Marshal,
James Bennett Robinson, l st.ewarda
'
James Robinson Lamont, f
William Kimball Hoyt, 7}/ler.

VOLCANO LODGE, No. 56.
Volcano, Amador County.
u- .
m-ef:eding Full .moon.
Sta~ Meeting11, Friday of or nezt r··

Paat Maatere :

OFF'ICERSt

Abner Elias Charles,
Moses Dinkelsplel,
Sampson Smith,
Albert Alexander Dickie,
Allen Oharles Miller,
Eben Dorman Perkins,
William Gustavus Davisson, Meyer Dinkelspiel,
John Bonaparte Lemon,
Abraham Farr Hitchcock, George Anthony Gillespie.
Stephen Kirby Norse,
Jerome Bonap. Richardson,

Jacob Griesbach, Senior Deaoon
Warren Quincy Mason, Master,
R_eubeo Frederick Frye, Benfor Warden, Samue1 Hnghes, Junior Dea.con '
Elbridge William Hoey, Mareh~l
Lionel Eugene Jones, Junior Warden,
Malcom Campbell McKinnon t '
Pet~r A~onzo CJ!ute, Trea11.1rer,
'f Bteww·ds,
Dennis Kelley,
BeDJamtn Ross, Seoretary,
Joseph Goodale, Ty"ler.

916

Returns of the Suhordinate LodgeB

[Aug. 1,

Past Maatera a

Elbridge ·William Huey,

Warren Quincy Maso!\,

Allen, J oho Christian
Case, John Nelson
Dillian, William David

Glenn, William Jay
Goodall, Joseph

Peter Alonzo Cl~te.

MASTER MASONS :

Reale, Antone Loois
Schmied, Johli-18.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

Ubblm, Herman Michael-I •

•

WITHDRAWN:

Kesseler, Aloysios-2.

Gersen, Max

SANTA ROSA LODGE, No. 57.
Santa Roa&, Sonoma County,

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Bernard Kobes, Master,
Willie Borton Simpson, Seni<>r Warden,
Nelson Deoois, Junior Warden,
Hiram Lewis Tripp, 7reasurer,
Joel Dwight Barnett, Secrelary,
William Freeman Wines, Ohaplain,

Carl Heinrich Neilson, Benior Deacon,
Henry Christian Cline, Junior Deooon,
John McGill McLaughlin, Marshal,
William Benjamin Griggs, l Steward•,
George S. K. McCallom, f
Emory Temple .Mille, Tyler.

Past Mastera •

Mark Body,
Henry J . Ross,
Abraham Clay Rainey,
Alexander Doug's Laughlin, John Ripley Wright,
Joseph Henry Grigg•,
Henry Crawford Crowder,
Augustus Leander Fisher, Albert G. Burnett,
Thoe.Hart Benton Anderson,
George Hall,
Edward Neblett,
Charles Martin Bumbaugh, John Nicholas Bailhaohe,
Allison Borr Ware,
A.lex. Campbell M'.oMeans, William Freeman Wines,_ Nelson Reed Shaw,
James Clark Mailer,
Allen Bosley Lemmon,
Bamnel Irwio Allen,
John McGill McLanghlin, Donald McKenzie.
Hiram Lewis Tripp,
MASTER MASONS :

Acton, William
Arnold, Amass W.
Baker, Walter0Hussey
Belden, Charles Clinton
Beoepe, Leander Warfield
Berka, Frank
Bertolanl, Pietro
Blair, Thomas Newton
Boyce, JohoV'raoklio
Brandt, Louis
Braoghler, Martin

Brown, Alexander
Brown, Arthur De Witt
Brown, George Seymour
Brown, John
Brown, William Elias
Bryant, Allen
Bumpns,,Cyrns Hamblin
Borger,'Calvin Halden
Bnrri•, Lother William
Butin, James Madison
Carithers, David Noble

Carlyon, Thomae
Carter, Daniel Pntnam
Colgan, Edward· Power
Coop.er, Eugene Marcus
Cornne, Frank Benton
Crawford, Richard Frnit
Daley, Thomas
Davis, Edward Walker
Davis, Walter SooU
De Lappe, Rossell
Dignan, Michael Henry

1896,]

To the Grand Lodge of California.

917

Seawell, Emmet
Korbel, Anton Francis
Doda,Battista Giovanni
Beegelken, George Wilhelm
Doggett, William Jordan Label, Him an
Lewis, George Washington Shaw, Willa..m
Dohn, George Ernest
Shearer, Fr'k Eichelberger
Loomis, Frank Clemens
Doran, William James
Shearer, Melville MoViJley
Mccorkle, Milos King
Doran, William Marlon
Shearer, William Piper
McKinlay, Duncan E.
Dougherty, Samuel K
Sinclair, Henry George
McMinn, John, Br.
Dowell, John
Smith, Alexander D
:Menary, Prince Albert
Dan bar, John
Smith, JohD Frederick
Miller, Robert Willis
Duncan, James Parker
Speegle, Monroe Madison
Mills, Frank Howard
Farmer, Charles Rollin
Spencer, Byron M
Farmer, Chris. Colnmbns Mobley, Cyrus Lyman
Steadman, Welcome Judson
Mock, Andrew Wesley
Fitts, John Perry
Stewart, John Hodson
Moke, Henry Herbert
Fountain, Orlando
Franklin, Job Henry Rich'd Morgan, William Cochran Stone, Nathan Jonas
Straining, Marinna John
Frehe, Herman Frederick :Morrison, Oscar
Mnrdook, Lonie Anthony Bntherlaod, George Howie
Fulton, Somers Barnhill
Swain, Renben Morey
Murphy, Wyman
Glenn, Robert .
Taylor, Charles Dewitt
Glynn, Francis J. Bonap'te Nash, William Hewston
Near, Christopher David Taylor, John Shackelford
Good, Walter Clifford
Thompson, James Monroe
Goodman, I.eopold Bolom'n Nelson, William Clark
Thompson, Rob't Augustine
Noble, John E
Green, Paul Franklin
Thompson, Thomas Larkin
Oaks, GJiorge William
Gnerne, George Emiel
Thor~en, Jel!lle Fremont
Oates, James Wyatt
Hahman, Henry Gnst11v
Tripp, Philander Franklin
Overton, Albert Perry
Halbert, Dan
Topper, George Anders 11 n
Overton, John Patten
Ball, Joseph Edward
Uoderhill, William Heary
Page, Charles Albert
Harris, Ephraim Drake
Vanderhoof,:Martin Van Bn'n
Perry, Oharles Asaph
Harris, Jacob
Viers, James
Peterson, Andrew
Henry, James
Pete'rson, Raford Wesley Walker, Lucius Whitfield
Hicks, James Oliver
Phelps, Charles Lorraine Warboys, John Walter
Highley, William
Wescoatt, Jonas
Phillips, Edward James
Hodge, Alexander Ladd
Wescoatt, Nelson
Phillips, Walter
Hockin, William
White, John .McCullough
Piggott, James Kenneth
Hopping, Samuel
Wiley, James Nichol
Hosmer, Winslow Simon Pool, William Henry
Williams, James Monroe .
Rankin, Alex
Howell, Orin
Wolfe, George
Reeve, Henry Francis
Hughes, John
Hnrlstone, Richard Brain Relndollar, Theo.Buffington Woolley, William Cecil
Wright, Augustus 8ylvanns
Rhoades, Samuel
Ink, Walter Payne
Yoho, Samuel R
Ridley, George Isaac
Jesse, James William
Rose,James Edward Brown Yoong, Frank William
Johnson; Andrew
Yoong, William Harvey
Jnlliard, Charles Frederick Ross, John
-191.
Sohmedli, Joseph Herman
Jnlliard, Louis William
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Burgess, James Floyd

Hoskins, Thomas Dixon

Mortlnson, Hane-3.

RESTORED:

Acton, William
Bailhache, John Nicholas
Dowell, John
Hook, Andrew Wesley

Murphy, Wyman
Oaks, George William
Rainey, Abraham (Jlay
!;!hearer, Melville :McVilley

Sutherland, George Howie
McMiDD, John, Br.
Weacoatt, Jonas-11.

•

918

Returns of the SUbordinate Lo<ige,s

[Aug, 1,

WITHDRAWN:

Brown, George Dix
•

Hodgson, William Henry

Shelmerdinc, Edward Klr°kland
-11.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Fahrion, George Wallace.
Caldwell, Charles Young ·

·

Gilman, Lowe

n J ease

Wright James California
•
-4.

DIED:

Fulkerson, Theodorns

Dunwoody, Alexander-2.

•

UNION LODGE, No. 58.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS•

William Wallace Douglas, Senior Deaaon,
Thomas Benton Reid, Master,
Benllo Wilson, Juntor Deacon;
Robert Alexander, Senior Warden,
Isaac Baldwin Cooledge, Marshal,
Henry Mitan, Junior Warden,
Victor Lemay• l
ardl,
Angnst Meister, :zrea1Urer,
Robert Joy,
John McArthur, Se<Jretary,
Joel Osgood Wilder, 7'y1.er.

r

Stelll.

Heitman, John Henry
· Moreehead, William
Sutlitf, Levi Beardslie
Henrich, :Karl
Murray, Nelson Henry
Swartz, Herman
Holdsworth, Jesse Bennett Nathan, Aaron
Swift, Chetlee Judson
Howe, Leland
Newman, George
Taylor, Edward Fytfe
Huntington, Thus. IVator'n Newman, Peter
Taylor, Vernon Frank
Ingham, Harry
Noack, Charles John
Terry, Wallace Irvin
Inwalle, John Joseph
O'Neill, Edward John
Thornton, Richard Parker
Kay, Edgar John
Parsons, Plummer Hillman Uren, Stephen
Kelsey, John Morris
Peck, Nelson Stanley
Van Fleet, William Oarey
Knauer, Frederick Charles Peterson, William Freder'k Van Voorhies, Albert Alex•
Lavenson, Samuel
Phillipa, Lonie
Waite, George Smith
L.avison, Jacob
Rego, Edward Sutherland Welch, Benjamin
Laws, Robert James
Richardson, Parson
Welch, George Gregg
.Lawson, Walter Brokaw
Roberta, Lewis Clark
Wilkinson, Joseph Boger
Leitch, George Whitfield Rothfeld, Sigmund
Wilson, Jesse Warren
Lightner, Bonus
Scott, Peter Franklin
Willi, William George
Little, Christopher
Scott, William
Wingate, Richard Pike
Mallard, George Hayden Shaw, Ira Clark
Witham, Gilbert Tapley
McCormack, Charles
Sheldon, Wm. Chauncey
Woodburn, James
McCormack, Frank
Smith, Benjamin
Wolf, l!Jdward
McCreary, Robert Clark
Smith, Wilbur Field
Woolston, William
MoCnlloch, James
Smith, William Penn
Wright, John Bascom
McKay, Daniel
Stetfene, Joseph
Wright, Ralph
McKeever, Francis May
Stephenson, JameR Mitchell Yoerk, Charles Angnstns
Melvin, Engene Walker
Steven11, Fred Andrew
Yosai, John Frederick
Mills, James Edgar
Stevenson,Henry Llewellyn Younger, A.ndrew-163.
Morrison, Jaines Mathew Stoddard, George Allen

William Hedges Baldwin,
George Amos Whl~.
Lonie Gambach,
Samuel Simmons,
John Samuel Cook.

Bennett, Alfred Ernest
Ferre, Albert Ames

Carey, John Thomas
• Ellsworth, William· Munn
Carlaw, John
Enright, ThomasLlnooln
Oathcart,BenjaminFranklln Fillmore, Jerome Adolpl!n&
Clark Jerome Franklin
Fiscal, Charles
CJem:at Lonie Metzler
Fitch, William Oyrne
Ovlee Thorn
Flint, Addison Angustns
Cow;n, William Henderson Foot, William John
Coyne, William
Forbes, Robert
Curtis, George Perry
Foster, James ~tuart
Decker,Boraoe Washington Freeman, Wilham Brooks
Dennery, Alphonse
Gerfon, Samu.el
Douglas, Philip
Graham, Lome Ed~ar
Dreyer, Rasmus Peter N. Gray, George Addison
Eddy William
Gregg, George
Edw~rds, Arthur Walter Haas, Nelson Willo~ghhy
Eicbrodt, Max
Hack, Julius Frederick

Reidell, Frank

Rnhetaller, Frank Joseph-4..

RESTORED:

Berkey, Thomas Henry

!>aimer, Asa John Wood-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Hnll, Joseph

Hopkill8, Alsen Wright

MASTER MASONS :

Abbott, Augustus
Abrams, David
Aiken, Charles Cyrus
Allen, John Francis
Barnes, John Alexander
Bates, Joseph
Baughman, Noble Henry
Baxter, Morris Adelbert
Bell, John
Berkey, Thomas Henry
Blanth, Theobald
Bliss, Sidney
Braun, August
Buchanan, John
Bnsh, George Thompson
Byers, Robert Hopkins

9H1

Ji!NTERED APPRENTICES :

Paat Mastera•

Richard Dale,
Charles Mortimer Coglan,
John William Rock,
Johu McArthur,
Isaac Baldwin Cooledge, Jamee Hoskins Moore'.
Alfred Angnstns Redington, Alexander John Gardmer,
Samuel C. Denson, P.(}.M., Cornelius Kellogg,
John Austin Cunningham,

To the Grand ·Lo<ige of OaUfornia.

1896.J

Palmer, A.ea John Wood-S.

DIED:

Garlick, Aaron
Hart, Albert

Hickey, William Edward
Mayer, William

O'Brien, Michael
West, Daniel-6.

GRAVEL HANGE LODGE, No. 59.
Camptonvllle, Yuba Collnty.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS1

William Bnll Meek, Mallter,
William Wickham Casserly, Sen. Deacon,
Peter Mondada, Senior Warden,
John Robert Meek, Juraior Deacon,
George Hosking, .Junior Warden,
Thomas Daniel Looey, Marshal,
Orin George Mayo, 7r11asurer,
Henry Smith,
l stewarda,
Edward Finnegan Ounningham,Secretary, Eugene Benharnals Oorey, f
Thomas Phillips, Chaplain,
Thomas Williams, 7Yler.

Returns of the Subordinate LOflges

920

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

921

'Io the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

Fast Maeters •

James Nelson,

William Bull .Meek,
Jeremiah Watts,,

Edward Finnegiui Cunningham.

LIVE OAK LODGE, No. 61.

MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, Alfred
Anderson, Orlando
Arnold, William Franklin
Arnott, J'ames
Barbero, Joseph Enos
B'lrtsc h, Ohristian

McLellan, Oharles
Nickelson, Ishmael Hend'n
Peterson, Johannes.
Polley, Ethan N&than
Smith, Charles
Thomas, Hugh Mathew-32.

Byrd, Thomas Jefferson
Crawford, William
Hosking, Richard
Kennedy, John Henry
Kennedy, John Rufus
Lewis, Francis
ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Querrolo, Pedro-3;

Levaroni, Carlo

Burris, Joseph

•

Oakland, Alameda (lount7.

Stated Meetinga, Ji.rat Friday in each month.
OFFIOERSz

]ldward Henry Hart, Masw,
Frank Burroughs Ogden, Slmior JJeaqon,
Walter Griswold Manuel, Senior' Warden, Frank Robert Thompson, JunCor JJeacon,
James 8hakesp·eare, Junior Warden,
George William Domin, .Marshal,
Adolph Edward Henry Cramer, 7reaa., Fred Minot Tillson,
Junia Josiah Warner, Beoretary,
Obarlee Olare Echlin,
•
John Trotter, Ohaplain,
Henry Osgoo1\ Hant, Organist,
Orville Knighten Stampley, '.fYler.

}swara.

Past Maatera t

PLUMAS LODGE, No. 60.
Q.alncy, l'lamas ooanty.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or ~t succeeding Full Moon.

Francie Klttridge Shattuck, Edward Oonstant Robinson, Frauk Howard Brooks,
Amasa Wright Bishop,
Benjamin Akerly,
Henry Philip Dalton,
Marcus Darius Hyde,
Noble Hamilton,
Franklin Warner,
Jame~ Ogden Miner,
Harry Charles Bosh,
Nelson Oarr,
·
James Lentell~
FraD.k Norris Dalton,
Julius Samuels,
James Oarter Kyte,
Junia Josiah Warner,
William Richy Hatfield,
James Christopher Martin, Charles Edward Haven,
John Robert Dewar,
James Todd Gardiner,
John Allison Beckwith,
Reynolds Landon,
Joseph Cairn Simpson,
John Wllllam McClymonds.
John Oarlton Marsh,
John Ragland Olascock,

OFFIOERS1

MASTER MASONS:

,_
George Wilsou, Senior Dea.con,
Joseph McChesney, Maa...,
.... • de
Leigh Hicks Dunning, Juni or D·-A
.,...,on, ·
Edward Garner, Senior ,.ar n,
l
James Hardin Larison, Junior Warden, Arthur Walter Keddie, Ma,.llha'
James Henry Whitlock, Treasurer,
John Daniel Goodwin,} BtetDarda,
John Everette Wilson, Secretary,
---,
.
Samuel Taylor, Tyl.er.

Akerly, James Clark Smith Capwell, Harris Oebert
Eastman, Moses Hayden
.Arper, George Waehington Carleton, George Henry Eaton, Henry Jones
.Atkinson, Thomas Albion CaSBidy, Richard
Eby, John Douglas
.Avery, Mark Herbert
Champion, Albert 0
Edoft', James P
Cbappellet, Felix
Edson, Judson Henry
Baab, Charles
Baker, George
Ohesout, JohnAugustus,Jr. Ely, Ralph Asahel
\laker, Peter
Ohristy, Charles
Euson, James Henry
Church, Lincoln Sheridan Evers, Emil Leon Heury
Baldwin, Robert Oliver
Clark, Marion •
Evers, John Henry
Bates, Charles David
lronmgartner,Andrew Fred Olayton, William Burt
Falvey, John Richard
IJ&aiDgartner, A.ugnst C.
Colvin, Charles Louis
Farrish, Edwin Dean
Farrington, Elvin Dunn
Bell, Samuel Bookstaver Cook, William Coleman
Fisher, Bertrand Band
Bennett, Robert Howard Craft, Richard Oorson
Bibber, Thomae Benjamin Craig, Homer Alexander Fisher, Obarles Morrison
Blair, George Mansfield
Crane, Carlton Cyrus
Fisher, Philip Melanchton
Blood, William Frank
Cron, William,.Jr.
Fisher, Robert Rollin
Fletcher, Francis .Alden
Bowen, Thomae William Oulver, William Lee
Brangs, Ernest Emil
Dalton, Henry Norris
Fortin, Octave V.ictor
Broad, Charles Augnstus Dargie, William Edward
Furniss, J;lerbert Olmstead
Davis, Jarrett W
Brown, Orson Dana
Gardiner, Wi lllam
Jh:uenn, Adolphus
Deering, Ohester
Gaskill, Varney William
Dixon, George
Gelder, David
Bullock, Richard Steele
Bnrt, Frederick Leslie
DuBois, Elijah
Gelder, John
lnteau, Samuel Hawkins DuBois, Percy Hamilton Glenn, Alexander Glenn

l' aat llfa ate re 1

Johu Daniel Goodwin,
Arthur Walter Keddie,
Bull, Daniel Miller
Byers, William Thomae
Elsner, David
Inch, Thomas Benjamin

Joseph McChesney.

James Henry. Whitlock,
MASTER MASO.NS:

Maurer, Henry Rudolph
McGee, Johu Baarham
McLennan, Kenneth
Phelps, John Glover

Reed, David 0
Robinson, Andrew
Strite, George-?1·

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

FELLOW OBAFT :

Stiles, George Washington-I.

Thompson, Charles Russell-1.

WITHDRAWN:

Thomas, John M. (r. o.)-1.

27

922

Returns of the Subordinate Lodge8

[Aug. 1,

Schaffer, Louie (2)
Me.u, Charles Frederick
Glenn, John Quinn
Schlarbaum, John. Ohr'n .B.
Mauzy, Byron
Glee.eon, George
Schlesinger, Adolph Che.a·
Goodfellow, George Eaiery McOarroo, David
Schmidt, John Oe.rl
McCe.rter, John
Goodman, Georg\
Scholze, Me.x Charles
McCord, Thome.a
Grant, George
Schuller, Antonio
McKenzie, William
Gray, Martin Luther
McKi88lok, Harry Hanoa Seaton, Horace Scott ·
Green, Harvey Elmer E.
• Gross, Wilhelm Gustave 0. MacMullao,David AlexanderShellaberger, Fred Eugene
McMullen, John Oorneline Simpson, Joseph Ce.Im
Gruen, John 0
Grttnebaum, Wm. Bernard McPherson, Alex. Lewis Slemio, Charles, Jr.
Smllie, Robert
He.elk~, Hellwig Leopold McPike, Henry Clay
Smith, Benjamin John
Hall, Edward Masser, Jr. Meek, Rodolph We.llace
Smith, Charles Edward
Metcalf, Victor Howard
Hall, Josepli Lee
:Momyer, Henry Eastman Smoot, David Low
Hall, Leon Eugene
Sple.re, Frank William
Morrie, William
Hall, Samnel Pike
Steffe.nooi, Achilles
Hardwick,Edw'd Newcomb Morrison, John
Barlow, William Stnrteve.ntMnller, Berman Emo.one! Stimpson, Geo. We.ehlngtoo
Naismith, George Semple Sotherlaod, Edwin
Harmon, Dana
Swain, Clinton Terry
Nelson, Jo.mes Wesley
Haven, Clarence
Sweeney, George We.de
Newsom, Joseph Oather
He.yes, Daniel David
Hewitt, Robert Ethelbert Nordhanseo, Chae. ChrlstJanTaylor, Charles Benjamin
Taylor, Felton
Northey, Vernal Sidney
Hickmott, Robert
Taylor, Jo.mes
Hoe.gle.nd,Rlche.rd Henry Otto, Frederick(}
Thomson, Arthur Dellibe.
Outram, David John
Holland, Arthur Percy
Owen, Wm. Henry Searles Tozer, Charles Francis
Hooe, Headley Smith
Trenschel, Angoet Freder'k
Oyler, Robert
Hoppen, Alfred
Troy, John Henry
Palmer, James Irving
Hosmer, Abel
Humphrey, Thoe, Me.reha.11 Parrish, Norman Adolph Toman, Charles Horbert
Torner, Joshua Nichols
Parrish, William Henry
Hyde, Olareooe
Pe.Uerson,Alb'tLew.Crand'I Umphred, Frank Morris
Irwin, John Olarke
Umphred, Joseph Wilson
Pelton, Lester Allen
Johnson, William
Veitch, William Thom81
Pierce, Ohe.rlee Dexter
J orde.n, Frank Chester
Warner, Elon Lafayette
Pierce, George Seneca
Joyce, Anetin Ambrose
Webster, Albert Bradford
Price, Wallace Covert
Keeeing, Henry Berne.rd
Webster, Leander Rankin
Rabe, John
Kelley, Oharles Marsh
Westover, Clinton
Basmnssen. Bans
Kenda.II, Frank Irving
Wheeler, Roscoe, Jr.
Reichling, I,ouis Frank
Kerr, Archie Fnllerton
White, John Gurney
Reinhardt, Joseph
Kerr, Lonie CormickJ
Wight, Frederick Gordon
Knight, Frederick We.lee Reinstadler, .Francois
Wilkinson, Edward Melville
Beve.lk, Richmond Emil
Kuse, Peter Nicolai
Willie.ms,Nichole.e
Lamoureux, Phllie.s Henry Richards, John Callahan
Wilson, Jo.mes
Robbins, Henry Russell
Le.nyon, Joseph Henry
Wines, Charles Buckley
Lawreoce,HeDl'y Hath'y ,Jr.Rolf, Harry Loren
Wines, Oharles Latham
Rogers, Josiah Barnes
Langhland, John
Woodward, Francis John
Rosenberg, Morris
Leber, Albert Lewis
Woode, William Fowler
Rossell, Edward Knight
Lebrecht, William
Woolsey, Elliott Hartme.o
Samson, Martin Meyer
Lindsay, Thomas
Wnudsch,Joseph
Samuele, Isaac Joline
Lord, Leslie Howard
Zabel, Carl Jnline-260.
Schatrer, Lonie (1)
Lnelling, Oregon 0
Matthews. Francis Ima
FELLOW CRAFTS:
Wloge.te, Isaac Ce.nnon-2.
Knowles, William Andrew

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of California.

923

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Beck, Thomas
Foote, William Winters

Snow, Row~e.nd Warner Wharf, William Greenough-5.
Schmidt, J oho
RESTORED:

l:!amnels, Jnlins-1.
WITHDRAWN:
Hongh, George Walles- I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Crosman, Cortland David
Draper, Thomas B

.
8 e.mnels, Jnlius -'·

Morris, Benje.min Samuel
DIED:

Nordhaueeo, Ernest Albert
Hopkin, Albert (B. A.)

Snyder, Andrew Jackeon-2.
Yoong, Louis (111. A.)-2.

.

GEORGE WASHINGTON LODGE No. 62.
Chinese Clamp, Tuolumne County.

•r
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ntzt aucceeding F'ull .moon.
OFFICER81

Roscoe Follansbee /:Jen· De
- - - , Mallter,
Alexander Gamble Keith, Senior Warden, John Ernst Ji . 'D ior aeon,
• unwr eacon,
Hetwy Dongle.es .J • W: ,.__
Alpheus Sherman Orcutt Marmal
' umor ar...,.,.,
,
'
.7reaaurer
-- Norton Woodbridge 'corrie, 8t1,;,.etary,
'
.l!Jdge.r Thomae Palme~, 7}/ler.

==-·}Steward //,

Paat Maatera 1

Roscoe Follansbee
Isaac Ward Smith,'

James Maoke.y,

Jamee Francis Black.

MASTER MASONS:

Comfort, John Van Oolt
Keith, Cbe.rlee Peter
Loney, Je~ome

Smith, William Anderson
Stratton, Daniel Edgar
Taylor, Albert

Thomas, John M.
Webster, Ge1>rge Artbor
-18.

WITHDRAWN:

Walsh, Wllliam-1.
DIED:

Bartlett, Daniel T
Xlatteilhoff, Deidrlch

Love, Rafus King
Re.nde.11, Rhodes Burk

Bolinsky, Christ. Wm. Hngo
-IS.

924

Returns of the Svhordinate Lodge&

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ijomi.a. t

925

Paat llla•tera 1

Walll1ce Kay,
Divol Benedetto Spagnoli,
John Oold,

NATOMA LOI;>GE, No. 64.
Folsom, Sacramento <lounty.
Sta~d Meaings,

Thursday of or nezt preuding Full Moon.

MASTER MASONS:

OFFICERS•

Philip Charles Oohn, Senior Deaaon,
Christian Lodwlg .Eoklon, Ma3ter,
Jamee Henry Bornbam, Senior1Varden, Jacob Hyman, Junior Dtaoon,
Lewis Washington Holliogsworth,J. War., Peter Yager, Marahal,
l stetDards,
•
Jacob Miller,
Edward Rogers Levy, '.lrea.tUrer,
Nicholas Gerrett Wubbena, f
James Henry Sturges, Secretary,
Edwin Aogoetos Jones, Tyler. ,
Pa•t Ma11tera 1

Peter Yager,
Calvin William Duden,
William Woodward.

Christian Ludwig Ecklon, Philip Charles Cohn,
Charles Henry Eoklon,
James Henry Burnham,
Oharles Aull,
Simon Stamper,

Myron Shaw Matijoo,
Walter Edwin Kent,
Sylvester Giovanni Spagnoli, James Harris.
Robert John Adao;is,

Bagneschi, Luigi
Newman, Leopold
Heming, David
Beiloomloi, Giovanni
Parker, Frederick Wardner •
Hicks, Thomas
Bianchetti, Bartolomeo
Peter, William Dewitt
Hntchlns, John Weale.y
Bonney, William
Laoghtoo, James Aogostine Radovich, Nicholas
Campbell, John Dow
Reichling, Peter
Levy, Joseph Morris
Oheraolch, Elias Nicholas Lindley, Cortis Holbrook Rngne, Raphael
Cooledge, Walter Scott
Samuels, Joseph
Mace, Fayette
Detert, William Ferdinand Maroocol, Paolo
Sanders, William Boon
·Eddy, Edward
Tibbitts, James Hallar
Martell, Francis
Farnsworth, Eldr'ge Calvin MatUy, David
Tucker, William
Harvey, William James
Torner, Clarence Helmer
Michelotti, Carlo
--00.
Hayes, John
.
FELLOW ORAFT :

MASTER MASONS:

Pelser, Isaac Samuel-I.

Eoklon, Lorenz Gottfried Mette, Henry
Barton, Hiram Emmett
Miller, Emil
Fie!, Isaac
Barrett, Josiah Russell
Mills, Robert Trimble
Bates, Benjamin Franklin Hoose, John Lorn
Porter, William Thomas
Imhof, George
Broder, Jacob
Qolno, John
Brown, Hy.New Hampshire Joerger, Joseph
Sawyer, Henry
Burnham, Frederick Parker Keefe, Robert
· Scott, John Brown
Oomfort, George Middleton Kyborz, Samuel
Meredith, James SebasUan Wilson, Egbert IJvingston
Dodson, Marcus Holen

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Giannini, Goiseppe Maria
Keagle, Lorentes N

Meiss, Loois-5.

Langreen, Angost
McFarland, William K
DIED:

Aitken, Robert

Fullen, John-2.

-40.
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

FELLOW CRAFT:

Wise, Paol-1.

Stoot, Jame&--L

RESTORED:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Ohrilty, Edward-I.

Sawyer, Henry-1.

FOREST LODGE, No. 66.
Alleghany, Ste....a <lounty.

DIED;

Cohn, Simon
Edwards, Oharlee Ward

Lorain, John

McFarland, Thaddeos Joeeph-4.

Stated Meetings, Saturday qf or ~ preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERSt

AMADOR LODGE, No. 65.
Jackson, Amador (lounty.

Stated Meetings, 'l'ueaday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

John Oold, Master,
Myron Shaw Matson, Senior Warden,
Willlam Milton Peary, Junior Warden,
John Henry Langhorst, 1)-eaaurer,
Sylvester Giovanni Spagnoli, Secretq.ry,
Henry Osborne, Ohaplain,

Roberi J oho Adams, iSenior Deaoon,
Nathan Pierson Williams, Junwr De<J(Jt>n,
Herbert ~awreoce Davies, Marshal,
Philip Rober:'8, l SlewariU,
George New1man, f
John Giusto, Tyl.er.

George Washington Perkins, Master,
Michael Galloway Wyllie, Senior Deacon,
- - - - - - , &mfarWarden,
Horace H Brown, Junior Deacon,
&rnard Hookelberg, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - , Maralud,
Emanuel Aogostos Meiiy, 1)-easurer,
William Wallace Oooper, l SUnoards
Samuel Iglick, Secretaru,
'
f
Henry William Stilck,
Broder Haas, Tylw.
Paat· llla•ters :

George· Washington Perkins,

Leonard Irvine,

Charles Adrian Rcossan.

MASTER MASONS :

Aird, Alexander Fisher
Appel, Harrison
Bayles, Watson
Broeaeaux, Narcis
Burleigh, Frank L

Oole, Willlam Lake
Crafts, Samuel Stoora
Delsem, Obarles 8
Edmonds, Thomas
:ii:n1s, Thomas

Erskine, William
Goodwin, James Willis
Hanley, Willlam Franz
Hooper, William Norman
Jenkins, Thomas Henry

1896.]
~

926

Retur~ of the Subordinate Lodges

Jones, John Oscar
Kenn, Alexander
Labonte, Francis Xavier
Malone, Rowland Cnrtin
Martin, George 0
McGregor, James

Mcintosh, Charles Hugh
Meany, Nathan Holbrldge
Pilond, Edward
Raymond, Daniel Hobart
Rielly, James Daniel
Rowlands, Trevor T

[Aug. _l,

St. Pierre, John
Thomas, Benjamin
Thompson, David Edward
Voge, Henry
West, John Thorenaiue-43.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Prescott, Le Roy-1.
DIED:

Wayland, William Allen-2,

McNulty, John W

MORNIN G STAR LODGE, No. 68.
Stookton, San Joaquin Collll~·

Stated Meetinga, second Thuraday in each month.
OFFICERS •

To the Grand Lodge of California.

Fanning, Howard Malcomb Klench, John Peter
Rhodes, Allin Lee
Fitzgerald, Willi11m Wesley Lander, James Thomas
Rice, Charles Eddy
Fletcher, Willard Franklin Lane, Frank Ellis
Roberts, Edward
Fyfe, Joseph
Lang, Lewis Hawkins
Rolerson, Benj. Franklin
Gersbacber, Josbna Barre J..angridge,Geo. Washington Rossell, Richard William
Goyette, Joseph
Lehe, Engene
Sampson, Charles Selestina
Gratton, John
Leitoh, Arobibald
Smith, William James
Gransky, Engene Moriz
Link, Sylvester
Sonthrey, John Nicholas
Haines, Isaac Stontenberg Lyon, Lemuel Elisha
Swain, Cornelius
Harkness, George Sumner Mayes, Thomas Berry
Swain, Joseph Henry
Harrison, Norval
McKinnon, Angns
Swinnerton, James Guilford
Bart, Charles B
McPherson,Josepb Kennon Thompson, John William
H&wthorne, John Bradford Michaels, Benjamin Keefe Thornton, Richard Robert
Henderson, Milton Pierce Milco, Nicola
Tripp, William Osial
Hiokman, Edward
Morris, Ozias Manley
Tschlersoky, E. M. Lonie
Hickox, Flavil Gaylord
M.yrick, John Edward
Turner, Frederick Henry
Hudson, Abijab Thurston Nicol, Frank David
Turner, George Clinton
Hull, Octavius Haymond
Noble, Arthur Morgan
Valentine, Frank Engene
Jockers, David
Noble, Edwin B1mks
Wagner, Solomon
Jones, Stephen Klneston
Nye, William Douglass
Waterman, Solomon
Jory, John
Oranges, Geremia
Welsh, James Miller
Kay, Joseph
Orvis, Charles Brace
Wilhoit, Roley Earley
Kerr, Benjamin Eadie
Orr, Nelson Mills
Wollner, Frederiok William
Kidd, James Edward
Patchen, Warren
Woolsey, William
Kill', John
Perkins, Charles Edwin
Wn!Jf, Albert Lyon-187.
AFFILIA.TED:

•

Jamee Halstead Linds\ay, .Maa!M',
George Elbert ~at~, ~lor Deacon,
Durret Oliver Castle, Senior Warden,
Weell'y Oram, unior eacon,
Edgar McDowell Bramiford,Jun. Warden, Doran Lacina Campbell, Marshal,
Frederick Macondray West, '.lreawrer, Ichabod Olmstead Roes, ~Steward•,
George Alex. McKenzie, Secretary,
William Elisha Philo,
.
ChMles Edward Howe, fyler.

Sailors, James Lewls-1.
ENTERED APPRENTICE S :

Austin, Frank Earnest
Bell, Frank Preston
Carran, Thomae

Gross, John Emil
Hall, Oharles Edward
Hohenshell, Cyrns M.arkle Nicewonger, Levi Bnll-7.
WITHDRA.WN :-

Wyatt, Enos-1.

Past MaateJ:'U

George AngnstnB Shnrtlelf, George Alex. McKenzie,
Doran Lnclne Campbell,
Henry Collin Sb&w,
William Brace Harrison,
Henry Snmner Sargent,
Frederick Macondray West, John Yardley,
Henry Epbraim Robbins,
Edward Richards Hedges,

927

Vernon Perry Pritchard,
Orrin Staples Henderson,
Henry Calcutt Keyes,
Edward Elbridge Hood,
Aaron Schloss.

RESTORED:

Gratton, John

Lebe, Engene-2.
DIED:

Beysser, Lonie
Hatch, Frank Sanborn

Henderson, Abram Jamelsen
Sailors, James Lewia

Shelton, Frederiok-5.

MASTER l\IABONS :

Adame, Silas Plympton
Blessing, Jacob
Cavin, Jame.s
.
A•wood, John Perry
Bonney, John Allen
Condit, Pbihp Martin
t,CharleeHen
ryWm.
Uonfer, Solomon Lylle
Brand
Anbry, Alvin Emansua
Bachman, Oarl Angust
Brooke, Alexander William Conklin, Jesse
Bagge, Harry Nichole
Brown, Philip Thomae
Oook, John Wesley
Bainbridge, Jae. Absalom Bnckley William Duncan Oroas, Samnel Nelson
Cnnningbam, Thomas
Buell' PB,rk Arbington
Barber, Frank Wilton
Barber, Joseph Martin
Bumb, Peter Anguet
Daly, John
.
Ditz, George Jumor
Batte rs, Edgar Warren
Barkie, Henry Bruce
E
Dnnlap, Frank vere tt
Buttrl·ck' George Howe
Bauer H erman
Beael~y Charles
• Campbell, Jos. Claybaugh Earsom, John W"ll'
1 1am
Beede WilliamMorrieStnartCareon, Edward Ooneider Elliott, Lyman Weston
BergU:an,Francls Gue. A.H. Castle, Christop'r Champlin Ellis, J obn

ENTERP RISE LODGE, No. 70.
Yuba City, Sutter County.

Stated lrfeetinga, Saturday of or ne:et preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS •

Alonzo Graftls, Ma8ter,
William Rennie Carpenter, Senior Deacon,
Leonard Arthnr Walton, Senior Warden, James Abrabam Littlejohn, Jun. Deacon,
Louis Hedley Woodworth, Jun. Warden, Robert Cornelius Kells, Mar1hal,
Hiram Aaron Walton, Trea1urer,
Erich Schmidt,
l BtetD ds
William Henry Campbell, Secret111'7/,
Dallas Raymond Green, 5
ar '
Boward Clifton Olark, Ohap'll:Lin,
Edgar AlfoDBo Bevans, Tyler,

928

lleturm of the Suhorfiinate Lodges

[Aug. I,

1896.1

To the Gra~ Lodge. o/ O~fornU,i.

92~

Paat l!laatera 1

Arthnr Hathaway Hewitt,
Clayton Elsworth Williams,
Alonzo Grams,
Richard Barnett.

William Parkhnrst Smith,
Caleb Elisha Wilcoxon,
Jesse Harrison Craddock, Miles Edward Sanborn,
Oliver Perry Bnrgett,
Richard Bayne,
Charles Edward MoQnaid,
Samnel Hawes Ross,
Geo. Washington Carpenter, William Henry Oampbell,

BEAR MOUNTAI N LODGE, No. 76.
A.nArel'• Cainp, Cala.v eraa Councy .

Stated Mutitip11, Wednesday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

MASTER MASONS :

Rowe, Pleasant William
Heiken, Henry Bantas
Best, Henry
Herrold, Ebenezer Wilson Sammis, William Engeoe
Branstatt, John Nelson
Saye, George Marion ·
Breener, Aug'tave Gnstavis Hnll, Theo. Benson
Schellenger, Edward Tift .
Jacks, John
Brace, John Jasper
Chadwick, Larkin Hopkins Johnston, Benj, Franklin Schellenger, Hector Olar'ce
Clements, Wiiiiam Andrew Kersey, Thomas Saverree SohneB11ler, Henry Herman
Kimball, George Herbert Schnler, Oonrad
Clyma, ThomllB Sanford
Coatee, William Alexander Klrtley,Napoleo n Bonap'te Sheldon, Charles M
Soderlnnd, Johannes
Lamme, John Hamilton
Connell, Michael
Lathrope, Geo.Washington Soderlnnd, Noack
Cooper, Frederick
Starr, Edward ~utler .
Littlejohn, James
Oress, Jacob Daniel
Stevenson, BenJ: Frankhn
Dahling, Fr'k Henry Frank McGrath, Harry Hill .
Baggett, Luke Timothy
Deaner Samuel Ohristian Mahon, Kirby Smith
· snmmey, Leonidll8 •
Matteson, Charles
DeWitt' William Golder
McOready, Edward John Walton, Benjamin Franklin
Dnnca;, John Lewis
Featherly, Edward Wash'n MoRae, Alexander Ar~nr Walton, Fred Day
Fergnson, Thomas Henry McRoberts,William George Walton, George
McVey, Thomas Fletcher Walton, Oscar Milton
Fields, Oharles Beccorn
Weeman, Charles
Finbreath, Arthnr Francis Miller, Hezekiah Monroe
Wilcoxon, Baxter Allen
Mitohell, Speed Smith
Fraser, Samnel .
Wilcoxon, Caleb RuBBell
G Jbralth Thomas Arthnr Moncur, Ogilvie
Wilkie, Jame~ B.
G~p.atrlc.'Drenk J11dah Moon, Richard Albert
Williams, Comehns
Myers, John Henry
Gottwals William
Williston, Elijah William
Onstott, John Paxton
Gay Ja~es Uare
Wilson, Elias McCarthy
Orr, James Emanuel
G;imth, Irwin
Wilson, Weseley Thomll8
Peck, William Francia
· G ddall Louis James
Wilson, William Clay
H:rkey: William Pinokney Peters, Joseph
Wood, Ira Ha.lstead
Petrie, Isaac Newton
Hauss, Ferdinand
Wood, Job Kittles-112.
Ripley, Oharles Jackson
Haynes, James
Heberllg, Henry Baker

Thomas NSmlth, .Mallter,
George Watson Thomas, Sen. Warden,
lohn Richard Dorrrih, Junior Warden,
David Dnrie Demarest, 7haturer,
Oharles Richard Hawley, Secretary,
- - - - - , Ohaplain,

John·Oooley, Senior Deacon,
John Kavanaugh, Junior Deacon,
Warren Rose, Mar•hal,
t Steto d8
Otto Dolling,
ar '
Frederick Henri Ratz, f
Obarles Albert Johnson, 7}/ler.

Paat lllaatera 1

Ha1·vey Spaulding Blood, Woodson Gartard,
William .Andrew Kelly,
Hezekiah Manning Richardson.
James Fitzgerald .Anderson, Thomas NSmith,
MASTER MASONS :

Arendt, Michael
.Allen, Theophilus
Boarman, Oharles
Condo, Cyrus
Findley, David
Gardner, John
Gardner, Robert
Herzberg, August
Lane, Oharles David
Lane, Thomas Travis

Lee, Thomas
Le Moine, Oharles Ency
Lillie, Oharles Andrew
Loriniv William Joseph
Love, .Alexander
McKey, James
Morgan, Philip Morgans
Perini, Joseph Fulgenzlo
Perino, Peter
Reiclilf'e, Henry

Riedel, Belthaser
Roberts, Samuel Augustus
Ross, Robert Hall
Byal!, Andrew
Spindel, Stephen
Stanley, Edward C&leb
Stevenot, Emile·Knoemer
Townsend; .Alpheue
Whlttard, Ernest Alfred S.
--40.

ENTERED APPBENTIOES :

.Adair, Oharles F

Kuhnen, .Andre:w-l!,
.FELLOW CBAFTS :

Goodloe, Peyton V.-2.

.Carlson, Charles Henry

l!USPENDED FO.R NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

6rangey, John-I.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Watts, Albert Joseph-1.

PETALUM A LODGE, No. 77.

ENTERED APP.RENTIOES :

Bailey, George Washington
Dunwell, E. B.

Ramey, John

Watson, Delacey Willlam-4.

Petalama, Sonoma County.

Stated Mutinga, Wedntaday of or na:t pre&ding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUF.H:

Coll'ey, Alexander Brainard-1.

Charles Orlngton Perkins, Senior DtJa.COA,
William Henry Zartman, Ma.ter;
Dolphe Brice Fairbanks, Senior Warden, Robert Francis Johnson, Junior Deacon,
Charles Edward Dillon, Junior Warden, William Robinson, .Marlhal,
Powhattan Alfred P. Atkins, l
Alexander Blakey Bill, 7reasurer,
f SteuJ"!fU, .
Thomas Jell'erson Haskine,
lohn Lincoln Camm, Seoretary,
lohn Partridge, Ohaplain,
James Bingley (of Arcturus Lodge, No. 180), 7Yler.

28

930

Returns of the Sub<Yrdinate Lodges

[Aug. l,

1896.J

To the Grand Lodge

Paat Maaten1

Charles Orington Perklne,
John Lincoln Oamm,
Dolphe Brice Fairbanks,
William Robinson,
Robert(} Wallace,
George Frank Allen,
Powhattan Alfred P.Atkins, Frank Arlinltton Cromwell, John Nelli,
J'osepll Frank Fairbanks.

ef California.

931

Paet .l!faatera1

Moses Thorpe,
William Anderson Waltaoe,
Elisha Bryant Robertson,

JUSTER MASONS :

William Oasey,
Obarles Robert Beal,

Frank Joseph Bolinsky,
George Obristian Graves,

MASTER MASONS:

Hesaeltlne,BenjaminLoring Rankin, Lowry Elmer
Adams, William Samuel
Rose, James Rossell
Bigbee; Hiram Bedell
Barlow, Warren
Roseborgh, Allen
Hill, William
Bordthelser, Obarles
Johnson, Almon Thomas Rogg, William Hazen
Burdell, James Black
Sartori, Victor
Kuhnle, Fred.
Camm, William
Smith, George Neilson
Lafranchl, Angelo.
Oavanagb, John
Spridgeon, William rhomas
Denman, Fr. Hardenberg)I Martin, Samuel
Taylor, David Whitman
McFadden, Reuben
Dies, Carl Milo
Thompaon,Jelfera'n Asberry
McGrew, Samnel
Dillon, Charles Hardy
McNear, George Plnmmer Thomsen, Jens
Drees, Ernest Emel
Tomasini, Deodato Gaointo
Fairbanks, Hiram Tolbert Meyer, Jacob Frederick
Towne, Walter
Munch, Christian
Gale, Demos
Troop, Oscar Frank
Graham, Thomas Jefteraon Ormsby, John Harper
Walls, David
Hamilton, Geo. Washington Ottolini, Ferdinando
· Phillips, Abraham Lincoln West, Frederio Charles
Haubrich, Leonard
Zartman, Willlam~6.
Pimm, Henry
Henry, John
Potter, Joseph Harvey
Herron, Frank Crail

Brown, Edward Monro
Casey, Edward
Ooolter, William Sbirm
Davis, Henry Smith
Del Re, Henry
Ford, Charles Benjamin
Ford, William Mitchell

Friedberger, Arnold
Holland, Jndson Arthur
Maggini; John
Mingus, John Alphonao
Newland, James Andrew
Raggio, John
Raggio, Joseph

Redmond, Samuel Edwin
!Roberts, Orvis
Solari, Peter
Talmage, Christ. Columbus
Thorn, Benjamin Kent
Walter, Charles Francis
Wiggin, Cbarles-39 .

ENTERED APPRENTICE : .

Nuner, William M., Jr.-1.
DIED:

Bence, Adolphus

Bode, Herman

Reddick, John Borke-S.

, ENTERED APPRENTIC E:

FELLOW CRAFT:

Davia, George Edgar-1.

Nelson, Frederick Vlotor-1.
RESTORED:

McFadden, Renben-1.

HUMBO LDT LODGE , No. 79.

WITHDRAW N:

Cavanagh, Thomas James

Codding, George Colby-2.

BUBPENDED FOB NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Davie, Thomas
Gilbert, Platt Benedict

Hamilton, William Joseph
Hinkle, John Baker

Page, Wilfred
Worth, William Henry- 6.

CALAV ERAS LODGE , No. 78.

Eureka, Hamboldt County,

Stated Meetinga, Ji.rat 'l'liuraday in each month.
OJJ'FICER S1

George Washington Honter, &n. Dea
Bethune Perry, Maaler,
Edward Backenstose Jun(or Warden OOfl,
John Lester Maurer, Senior Warden,
'
Frederick Beoj..min Barnnm, Jun. Ward., Thomas· B~rnea <Jutle'r Mar8hal
'
Edward Foster Pettin~ill I
John Sutherland Murray, 7reaaurer,
Bubert Hiram Woodcock' f &etoards,
James Berry Brown, Sear11tary,
William D. McKay, Tyw:
Griffith Griffiths, Ohapla.in,
Past Jllaatera •

Stated M~tinga, Tliuraday of or nut preceding Full Moon.
OPFICER S 1

Obarles Lowe Chase, Senior .Deao<>n,
Frank Joseph Bolinsky, Master,
John Chambers Early, Junior Deacon,
William Casey, Senior.Warden,
George Christian Gravea, Jun. Wardlln, Jabier Salcido, Marshal,
Cyprian Augostini, l SteUJartla
David Cassinelli, TreaBt.1rer,
'
f
Gwin Raymond,
Adolpnus Henry Coalter, Seoretary,
Thomas Alfred Box, 'Iyler.

J,obn Butberlan_d Morray, Clarence Mandv.L.Howard, Obadiah Stephen Silkwood '
Thomas c nti e~
• JCharles Frederick Roberts, Louis Peraoos •
Wood Torre
Abner
Clyborne,
WFrank
Brown,
ame~ Berry
y,
Griffith G 'ftith
.Joe.D1bbleHoytCbamberlin, Edwin Hudsoa Percy,
s,
ri
p
Andrew H"tcb·
1
J obu Austin Oottrell
ope Howatt,
mgs,
.
George w Hopkins,'
Hiram Freeman Thompson, Rober~ McFanl,
Franklin Thompson
James
McGeorge,
Frederick
olohn
Melendy,
Marvin
John
'
Silas Montgomery Book, Samuel Holmes.
Thomas Barnes Outler,
Jacob Lowenthal,

Returm of the Svl>ord!inate LodgM

932

.

[Aug. 1,

MASTER MASONS:

.Acheson, .Cephae
Frost, Elmer James
McNamara, William Jewett
Albee, Ro11well Hitchoock Folmore,FenwickeWilliams McPherson, Jamee
.Anderson, .Andrew William Fulton, William
MoVicar, James
Andereo~, William Orr
Gallop, John Thomas
Metcalf, Oortie Enoch
Axe, Frederick
Geer, Koyphaoeeo
Mickelson, .Alexander
.Ayers, Lonie Lafayette
Graham, J oho George
Monroe, .Alonzo Judson
Backeoe, John Emil
Graham, Wesley Oharlee Nicholson, .Archibald
Barnard, Jamee Edwin
Grose, Reobeo
Nieleen, Niels Peter
Barnum, Frank Gorham
Haeneel, Juline H . G.
Noble, Bogh Jamee ·
Bendixeeo, Hane Ditler
Halliday, David Henderson Ohman, Ignatius Joseph
Beoo~tt, Peter
Hamilton, John
Petty, Josiah
Blakwel1' Thomaa
Hanoa, William Patterson Pine, John Nelson .
Bonifield, Bamoel
. Hansel, .AmoP •
Pine, batford Fay
Borg, Edward Nelson
Harmon, Charles Treadwell Powell, Robert Baldwin
Boyd, David .Adair
Henderson, Jamee William Redmond, Jamee
Broadbent, Sherman
Henry, Robert
Rice, Louie
Brown, William
Hetfleld, .Albert De Forrest Rice, Peter 0
Bullock, Nathaniel
Higgins, Jamee Franklin Riohardeoo, Charles
Born ell, Lewie Melvin
Bill, Charles Warren
Robbins, Joe. Marcos Wyght
Cameron, Jamee Broce
Hill, John .A •
Roberts, Albert I>
Oampbell, .Alexander
Hill, Randle
Roes, .Andrew Walker
Oareon, George
Holmes, Robert
Rowe, Enoch Jamee
Oarson, Thomae
Horner, Oscar Alonzo
Sargent, John Samuel
Oareon, William
Howard, Ellie Harrold
Schorr, John
Caoghey, William Norman Hotcbine, Robert Walker Schwartz, Harry Aogoe'1ls
Oave, Henry .Alfred
Johnson, Johan .Adolph
Sevier, Ernest
Chapman, Emery Jonathan Jones, Prentiss Mellen
Sinclair, John .Archibald
Christle, Howard Leslie
Kane, .Alexander
Smith, .Arthur M
Olarke, Robert Dale
Klllaio, William
Boole, Hannibal Scott
Clendenen, Francis .Arthor Kingsbury,Lewis Buoncore Stewart, Charles Henry
Cockborn,'William
Langford, George
Strong, Wallace Kaleoa
Oolwell, Charles Everltte Lawrence, Frank Leslie
Swanger, Samoel Adams
Conant, Edward
Le Vasseur, William
Tabor, William Henry
Copeland, Robert
Matheson, Daniel
Taylor, Charles Gilford
Oorbett, Avard Longley
Maxwell, Sidney .Alister
Thompson, Albert Edward
Dayton, James White
McCann, Oharlee Frederick Thomas, Jamee Fraoklln
Diokelspiel, .Adolph
McCormack, Jae. Madison Torner, John William
Doe, Herman S
McCollens, David
Weaver, John HG
Douglas, George Carlton Mccutcheon, Robert
Webster, William Henry
Douglas, Hiram Lory ·
McDonald, John
Wiley, Aostin
Dungan, Garland .Albert MoGeorge, Peter
Wilson, Emmet Wakeman
Ellis, Charles Starr
McKay, Richard
Woodoock, bamoel Alex.
Fanning, John .Angus
McKellar, Donald
Yoong, Nelson
Ferguson, George M
McKenzie, Peter Mcintyre Yoong, Robert
Foster, Beth Bornham
McLellan, Walter Martain Ziegler, Frank- 169.
Fri1bey, Russell Bradley
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Baker, Thomas

•

To the Grand LodA:Je . of Vol,ifornia.

1896.J

WITHDRAWN:

Berry, George Keys
Dodge, Horace Francis

Gibson, Gordon Whitfield

Smith, 411aop Bigford-'·

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES :

A.lbeoslebeo; Bruno
Eddy, John .Mathewson
Chester, !{artin Theod.ore Long, Charles .Ailiogton
DlED:

Bryce, William

Carr, John

Stegemeyer, Charles Henry
StoeBBinger, .Tnlios Tiieodore
-6.
Whipple, Stephen Gr$11~· S,

•
IONE LODGE, No. 80.
Ione, Amador Coanty.

o~ or nezt preceding .z;Jz Moon.

Stated 1Jleeting1, Saturday

OFFICERS1

Julius Edmund Huber, Ma.ier,
J'obn Dabney Perkins, &nior Warden,
Jamee Phillip Surface, JuniorWarden,
John Marohant, 7TeaBUTer,
Jacob Borfaoe, &creta:ry,
Richard Heman Ford, Ohaplain,

William .Arthnr Bennett.a, Senior ])eacon,
!<'rank Frates, Junior Deacon,
John Whitten Borface, Marshal,
Morris J'ones,
l Sle!Darda
John Hamilton Gregory, [
'
- - - - ----. Tyler.

Paet Ma•terai

Jonios Farnsworth,
John Whitten Surface,
Bernhard Isaacs,
J'ohn llarohaot,

John Dabney Perkins,
William .Arthor Bennetts,
James Phillip Surface,
Jacob Surface,

James Franklin Stewart,
John Wesley Heath,
Oliver Plummer.

MAt!TER MASONS :

.Adams; .Abner La Fayette Lflmb, Frederick
Pardoe, Daniel Borden .
.Atkinson, William Wallace Leininger, Frank
Ross, Benjamin George
Black, Oharles Standiford HacLeao, John
Roman, Charles .Augo8t
Cliftou, Thomas
Haestrettl, Amatore James Spencer, Sheldon
Crabtree, Isaac Jackson
:M.aestretll, .Antonio
Sotherland, .Albert
Dillian, Benjamin Franklin McMarry, James William Taverner, George
Endicott, Edwin Eogeoe
.Moftltt, James .Albert
Whitaker, James .Andrew
l'ord, Hiram Wilder
Moore; Seth Beardsley
Whitlatch, Daniel Harry
Hammer, Michaelis
Newman, Jacob
Williams, James Henry
aoadley,George Thompson Nixon, Lyman
Zyss, Charles-,9.
Jordan, James
Okell, Edward Joseph •
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Gunderson, Tonnes-2.

Fox, William B.enry-1.

RESTORED:

Bmith1 .Anson Bigford-1.

933

DI]!:D:

Hartman, John

.MelB\i George .Aagnstoe-2.

Beturna of the Subordinate Lod,ges

934 .

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the. Grand Lodge of O~ifornUi.

935

MASTER MASONS:

YOLO LODGE, No. 81.
Yolo, Yolo County.

Stated Meeting•, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Charles Henry Bork, Master,
John William ·caonell, Senior Deaoon,
Samuel Van Scarlett, &niot• Warden,
James Lemuel Pace, Junior Denoon,
James Edward Scarlett, Junior Warden, Lewis Cramer, Marlhal,
Armand .Ibraham Levy, 7reaaurer,
Herman Selteoheim, l Ster.oards,
Bernard Boraoh, Beoret.ary,
John ZTaylor,
[
,Samuel Lemuel Nutting, Tyler.

•

Charles Henry Bork,
James Lemuel Paoe,

Pa•t Ma•ten:
John Guthler Bower, Jr.,
John William Cannell,

Alien, Erskine
Armstrong, John Henry
AnderBoo, August
Breece, Abraham
Cowan, Gorden Robinson
Dodds, Thomas Joseph
Foster, Stewart Ormsby
Gray, Edward

Jooea, Henry
La Ruo, William Addison
Lind, Charles
MoDonald, Robert Emmit
MoKloley, Archibald
Morehead, Andrew
Morehead, David Orlando
Pasco, Joseph Noay

P illow, Francis Franklin
Purinton, Frank Rolin
Schneider, John
Sch walleoberg, Renry
Soule, Kendrick Bancroft
Sparks, Rubin Moor
Tayler, Henry Wllaon
'l'bomas, Richard-40.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Garrison, George'Howard

Phelp~. Wiiiiam-2.

ENTERED APPRENTIOES :

Calenborg, Henry Francis

Rea, Wiiltam-ll.
.RESTORED:

Allen, Ersklne-1 •
Daniel Francis Houx:.

DIED:

Hatch, Jonas Alexander

.Tones, John D-2.

MASTER l'(ASONS:

Dillion, John Francis
Gable, Ames William

Johnson, Andrew Henry
-18.

Gllble, Harvey Clinton
Howard, Edward Stepbl'D
ENTERED APPBENTIOE:

Hoppin, Charles Roeetor-1.

VESPER LODGE, No. 84.
Red Bluft0 Tebama Co-ty.

Stated Muting•, Thur•day of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER!iia

RISING STAR LODGE, No. 83.
Fore•t BUI, Placer County.

Stated Muting•, Saturday r>f or nezt preceding FuU Moon.

William Preston Johnson, Master,
Alfred Bonham Cofl'man, Senior Deacon,
George Thomas Jones, Ben. Warden,
William Andrew Fish, Junior Deacon,
Charles Henry Darroogb, Jun. Warden, William Harvey Oox, Marshat,
William Brower Oahoone, 7reaaurer,
William Charles Fiokert, }Sr.ardl
William Thomas Lewie, &cretary,
Walter Cromwell Spann,
'
Alex. McKeoo .MoCoy, Ohaplain,
Samuel Lewis, Tyler.

OFFICERS1

Charles Duvall Akers, Malller,
Charles Renet, Senior Warden,
William Northwood, Junior Warden,
William Henry Greoell, TreasurM,
William Grey Jacka, Beoreta"JI,
- - - - - - , Ohaplaito
John E Allen,
James Russell Glover,
John .MoAnioch,

Beujamin Allen Mardis, Setdo1· lJBaeon,
George Alexander Lowe, Junior Deacon,
George .McAnlay, Mar1hal,
Theodore yucazovwfch, l SteUJard.t,
Edward Michael Llmnell, f
William Smith, 7'!1ler.

ea•t Maeter••
William Henry Grenell,
Charles Duvall Akers,

Frank Ellsworth Colborn,
Winfield Scott Davies.

Nathaniel Merrill,
John Wesley Brown,
Henry Withers Brown,

Paat llla•tera 1
James f,ouis Barham,
William Harvey Cox,

John Francie Ellison,
George Noilman.

MASTER MASONS:

Bailey, Mark
Brooka, HyaU 0
Balls, George Washington Brown, Ancil Lycnrgol
Ballard, Curtis Durkee
Calo, Martin Adolphoa
Boatmen, William
Campbell, Charles Abljah
Boole, Frank Arthur
Ohlpman, Norton Parker
Brokaw, Whitfield Chorohill Co:flmao, Pelham Howard

Cobo, Alexander
Davenport, John B
De Haven, David H.
Doane, Boott
Edward, Albert Henry
Elmore, Robert Hoyle

936

Returns of the Subordinate .Lodge.&

[Aug.1,

Martin, Robert Alva
Smith, Joseph
Fieh, Charles Erskine
Mayhew, Horace Allen
Swain, Henry Clinton
Fish, Erskine
MoCoy, Leo Lewie
Swain, Theodore Slevin
Foster, J oho Henry
McLaren, James
Vestal, George Walker
Gilbert, Thomas Henry
McKenney, William ]Javis Ward, Ephraim Harlow
Gilson, Thomas Amoe
Mc Wblooey, Isaac N ewtoo Weldimao, Louie Carl Fred.
Hall, William Robert
Morgan, George Edward
Wentz, Henry
Harvey, Joseph Henry.
Healey, Looleo Bonaparte Murphy, Sylvaous Everett West, John M
North, Edwin Byron
Westlake, George Walker
Hillhouse, John Olayton
Norvell, Robert Marcus
White, George Allen
.
Jelley, Frank Lee
Roseland, Ole Oscar
Wieodi~ck, Herman Henry
Lamb, Charles Herman
Sboeoreld, Salomon David Worley, William Heory-74.
Lyman, William Henry
Shade, Reuben Alor
Lyon, Darwin Baloom
FELLOW CRAFT:

Smith, George Waahlngton-1.
RESTORED:

Vestal, George Walker-2.

Ballard, Curtis Durkee

wrrHDRAWN1

Rawson, Hiram Aaroo-1.
SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES I

Ballard, Oortis Durkee
Commins, Job ·

Dohlg, Louis Jamee
Fish, Lafayette

Howell, Thomas Newton-Ii.

DIED:

Olendorl, William David-1.

NAVAL LODGE, No. 87.
Vallejo, Solano Count;r.

1896.l

Po the Grand Lodge of Oal£fornia.
'MASTER MASONS:

Aden, Bemmer Johan R.
Gustaveson, Ernest Alexis P leroy, Jamee
Andrews, William
Hall, Hemy Knox
Pljmlte, James Adams
Ashwell, Oharles
Hammar, Alrik
Powell. Jamee Henry
B11lllng, Walter
Barrier, Daniel W'Abster
Quigley, Benjamin Oook
Beveridge, David Forney Bassler, John Charles
Ramm, Peter
Bisslaod, Duncan Colville Hansche, Theodore George Recheomacher, Ferdinand
Blackmon, Philetos Swift Beath, Charles Richard
Richardson, Henry Dooglas
Blewett, Edward
Henderson, Orrington Lunt Roperto, Gaietaoo
Bond, Frederick Taylor
Hilton, Osgood Harrold
Rosson, Ernest Frederic
Bradley, Edward·Arliogtou Hodgkins, Edwin Andress Bussell, Alexander
Brownlie, James
Holden, John Joseph
Bailer, John Henry
Brownlle, John
, Janda, James
Sankey, John Bartram
Oarmao, Ambrose Bbermah Johnson, Otto
Savage, Thomas
Carpenter, Lewis
Kiog, John Loveall
Schild, George Ferdinand
Oasslday, Ralph Leslie
Knowlee, Setll
Bohlott. Oswald Rans Jacob
Chandler, Henry Walker Leach, Frank Aleamao
Shillingsbarg, William
Christiansen, Obarl6§ J11.oob Leber, William Samoel
Skelly, William P
Daly, Charles John
Leith, John
Small, ~'rederlck Augustus
Daooeobanm, Isaac
Major, John Jamee
Stevens, Oalvlo Elkins
t>aooe11babm, Solomon
Martin, James Lewie
Bnndqnest, ErnHt William
Deoioger, Jacob Frederick Matheaseo, Maonel •
Button, James Lawrence
Drake, Frank
Mcintosh, David
Taylor, David Atkin
Ehlers, Peter Frederick
Mini, Damiano
Thlsler, Obarles Edward
Ellis, Joseph Doane
Mini, John Baptist
Tingbory, Charles Edward
Eo-Youog, Charles
Moe, James
Tomke, Edward
Esboro, Homer
Moran, Owen
Topley, James
Fablaoseo, Alexander
Monroe, Joseph Wellington Wall, Charles John
Fassett, Thomas Odeon
Mnrray, Patrick
Warford, George Hlchborn
Faust, John
Nealley, Gilbert Lafayette Warford, Lewis Sylvester
Ffacber. Augnet Ernst
Norbey, Peter Oliver
White, James
Ford, Henry Jones
Oakley, Gilbert Hewlett
Wideoman, Oharles
Forrest, Thomas Monsen O' Brien, Maurice John
Wilson, George Wilkins
Foy, Harry Leon
O' Hara, John Henry ·
Wiison, John
Gendreau, Oharlee Anthony Olsen, Ole Guodberg
Winchell, Frank Theodore
Gratz, Edward
Plaisted, George.Pomeroy Wood, Bobert-13L
Greenwood, James Alfred
FELLOW CRAFT:

StaUd Meetinga, third Phuraday in each month.

Hayes, Horgan-1.

OFFICER81

George Valentine Oarter, Malter,
Peter Ooorad Bpringborg, &mwr Deac1in,
Albertine Hockins, 8efl'ior Warden,_
Frank Joseph Kinsey, Junior Deacon,
Oharles Henry Warford, Junior Warden, Oharlee Emme, Ma,..hal,
Jilelchart Remmers Aden, Treamrer,
William Kelley Gedge, l Stet.oardB,
Charles Franklin Mngrldge, Becretal'y,
Orville Grant Mano, f
George Bounds, Ohaplain,
Henry Broce, Tiler.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Barnes, Dooglas Gilson

Nathaniel Goold Hilton,
Edmund McLees,
Freilerick Winslow Hall,
Sylvester Warford,
Andrew Jackson HcPike,

Gustaf Adolph Bergwall,
Walter Doocao Audersoo,
John Jacob Lnclielnger,
Osgood L H ilton.

Baruzthy, Bela-2.
RESTORED:

Mcintosh, David-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Botherford, David

l"1nt Dlaatere •

Isaac Hyers Rutan,
Christian T. B. Hallio,
Hartin Jeremiah Wright,
William Brownlie,
George Rounds,

931

Rossell, William Abbott

Tripp, William S:eory-8.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Ball, George He11ry-l,
DIED:

Bell,Jobo

29

Daly, Obarles

Halsey, Isaac Sherwood-3.

938

Beturns of the Suhordinate Lodges

[Aug: 1,

To the Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

.1896.]

.·

939

Paat Ma•ter• 1

Joseph A Flint.

John Beatty, .tr.

QUITMAN LODGE, No. 88.

MASTER MASONS :

North IDoomJleld, Nevada County,

Fitzpatrick, Peter

Brown, David
Dowd, Thomas

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Woehler, Otto Arwed-2.

Stewart, Walter James

OFFICJl:RS1

DIED:

Alexander Ranch, Malter,
John Owen Evans, Senior Deacon,
Rosh Dix Skidmore, &mfor Warden,
Josiah Glassen, Junior Deacon,
Angus Rae Morrison, Junior Warden,
James Perkins Myers, Marshal,
John Henry Helwig, '.lreasurer,
Christian Otto Jepsen, l Stewarda
Grant Skidmore, Beuretary,
Richard Robert Janee,
Oornellns Arnold Tilton, T11ler.

r

Mayor, Francis Abraham
-14.

Monk, James-2,

Presley, Allen

'

Pamt Masters 1

Stephen Burnett Blakeslee,
Solomon Lucien Blackwell,

James Reid,
Alexander Ranoh.
MASTER MASONS :

Allison, Peter
Jones, Richard John
Arboeast, Frederick Luther Landllbnrg, Jasper
Berndt, Bans
Long, William David
Brown, George Washington Martens, John Christian
Boshell, Lonie
Matteoda, Louis
Dn Millien, Emile Arthur Mobley, Walter Leon
Helwig, Wallace William Moore, David James
Jorgensen, Ohristian

NORTH STAR LODGE, No. 91.

James Redington,
Rasmus Peterson Rossen.
Osborne, Thomas Israel
Quinn, Michael
Tregido, Alfonso Adolphus
Webster, Geo.Washington
Wetzel, Theodore, Jr.
White, Francia ·
Williams, William Owen
-88.

WITHDRAWN:

Watson, Benry-1.

Fort Jone•, Siskiyou County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of 0'1' nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERSr

Michael Slater, Master,
Israel Smith Mathews, Senior Deacon,
Robert Mitchell Walker, Sen. Warden, John Henderson, Jun. Deaoon,
James Camp, Junior Warden,
Albert Milliken, Marth.al,
Felix Knnz, '.lreasurer,
Samuel Jackson Luttrell, l Stewarda
Martin Ouster Beem, Secretary,
William Glendening,
J
.'
·
Hiram Wilson, 1}/ler.
Past Ma&ter• 1

Israel Smith Mathews,
Daniel Ream,
Elton Thompson Bailey,

Henry Jonas Dlggles,
John Tyler Moxley,
William Jay Ropi,

Allea, Michael
Beem. Andrew Addison
Oonnor, Jacob
Crawford, John Emerson
Dangle, Joseph
Erno, Abram
Fletcher, .Tam.e s Henry

Glendening, Walter Elliot
Hamilton, Isaac
Hamilton, John
Heartstraod, Paul A.lrred
Horn, David
Lindsay, Richard Scroggs
Parrott, Oharles Booth

Joseph Travelll,
Martin Coster Beem.

MASTER MASONS :

ROSE'S BAR LODGE, No. 89.
Smartsvllle, Yuba County.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Bayless, Samuel Irwln-1.

OFFICERS1

Sampson Davey, Senior Deacon,
Eugene De Lorimer Hapgood, B. Ward., Willis Orson Walker, Junfor Deacon,
Oscar Fitze.llen Redfield, Marshal,
John North Flint, Jun1or Warden,
Carlton Welborn Manasco, Treaturer,
Joseph A Flint, t S;mardi,
John Beatty, Jr., I
Robert Beatty, Se11retary,
Richard Beatty, Tyler.
- · - - - - , MaBl.er,

Quigley, John
Roberts, Isaac
Bell, Adam B
Shelley, William Benton
Short, John
Young, John Wesley-37,

ENTERED APPRENTICE!! :

Craig, Tbomas Barbaagh
Dudley, John El Dorado

Boreneon, John

Tonkins, William Henry-(,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

George, Henry

Lincoln, Eric Theodore
DmD:

Christie, John-1.

Linooln, John Aogast-S.

940

Returns of the Sul:Jordinate Lodges

[Aag. 1,

1896.]

AOAOIA LODGE, No, 92.
Colina. El Dorado Coanty,

Stated Meetings, Thur1da71 qf or ne:d preceding Full Moo11.
OFFICERS:

Francis Nicholls, Master,
Charles Angnstns Rasmussen, Sr. Deaoon,
Charles Scholze, Senior Ward~,
Daniel Teuscher, Junior Deacon,
Gioosi Bassi, Junior Warden,
John Wesley Killongh, Marshal,
Fraocls Marlon Bell, Treaaurer,
Charles Edwin .Merrill, l Stewards
Edward Willi11m Meglooe, f
'
joho Price, Secretary,
John McGrew, Tyler.

•

To the Grand Lodge of Oal,ij<m&ia.

Harris, Henry Harrison
Hnsmano, George C.
Lane, Robert Forester
Lazarns, Leopold
McColly, John
Meacham, Henry Martin
Meckleoberg, Joseph
Mooney, Thomas, Jr.
Newcomer, Stewart
Newkirk, Isaac James
Newman, Alexander

Noble, John Stnart
Rednall, Charles Frederick
Ontwaters, Nelson T
Bice, Oharles Frederick
Owen, Frank Henri
Shakespear, David
Palmer, Lyman Lother
Smith, Elbert Gibeoo
Pellet, Frank Hy. Alphonso Thomas, Marcus Washlogf11
Phillips, William Lncas
Tucker, Bird
Priest, Daniel Chnrchill
Tomer, William Abbott
Priest, David Qaiok
Weston, Frank .
Priest, William Henry
Williams, Alton Levant
Rasmussen, Andrew
York, Eli McBride-63.
Rann, Frank Oharles
·
FELLOW CRAFTS:

Jelinsky, Henry Oharles

Francis Nicholls,

Beerstecher, Charles lolius--1.

Henry Mahler.

RESTORED:

MASTER MASONS :

Benjamin, DeWitt Clinton
Haderle, John
Largersoo, Frederick

Bason, Ernest-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Past Mastera:

James Moon,

941

Othick, William David
RaJDBey, George Wilson
Shields, Michael

Tenscper, John Harvey
Weller, Elias-2l.

Inman, Marcos Fayette

Phillips, William Lucas-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Connor, Gabriel John
Hopkins, Henry Olay

•

Howard, John Charles
Mathis, Jacob Alvin

Peterson, Wiiiiam--5.

DIED:

Mcintyre, James Jackson

Potter, John Chase-2,

ST. HELENA LODGE, No, 93.
Stated Meetings, Saturday' o/ or next preceding Full Moon.

HENRY OLAy

OFFICERS•

John Henry Steves, Master,
Angnst Charles Rampeoda.hl, Sen. Deaoon,
William Wirt Bradbury, Senior Warden, · Frank Melville Nottage, Junior Deaoon,
Franz Ladwig Beck, Junior Warden,
Benjamin Franklin Kettlewell, Marshal,
Frederick William Kroeber, '.lreasurer, Lawrence Lausen Beck, l Stewards .
Oharles Ross Vann, Secretary,
David Fried,
· f
'
James Mitchell, Ohaplain,
James McGee, 1Yler.
Past Mastera 1

Bruce Stanley Ward,
Marcos Fayette Inman,

William Wbittlngham Lyman,
John Henry Steves,

Adamson, Christian Pugh
Allison, James Andrew
Amsbnry, Thomas
Anderson, Ulrick
Baldridge, William

Beryman, James Ernest
Boland, Michael Sixon
Bingham, William Alex.
Cl&rk, Samuel Gilman
Davis, Coroelins Etting

David R Richie.

MASTER MASONS:

Dawson, Wm. Jae. Gramley
Foe, Raymond
Galewsky, David
Greenfield, Chas. Hayden
Hanson, William

LODGE, No. 9o.

Satter Creek., Amador Vou.u.ty,

Stated Meetings, Thur:sdav of or next precedina FuU /Jloou.
OFFlflERS:

Oharles Howard Norton, Master,
Lonie Katz, Senior Warden,
Elbridge James Post, .Tunior Warden,
Morris Brion, Treasurer,
Hermann Lehmann, Secretary,
John Rogers Tregioan, Ohaplain,

Webster Smith, Senior Deacon,
James Bnzza Bastian, Junior Deaoon,
John McDougall Post, Mar&llal,
Frank Arthor Voorheis, l ste11ardB
Virgil Winfield N ortoo, f
'
John Jeiimioi, Ty'ler.

Past Masten 1

Alvioza Hayward,
Robert Pope,
Lonie Katz,
Morris Brinn,
John .McDougall Post,
Jonah Nichols,
John Llthgow,
Joseph Fonntalo Chandier, William Henry Gunsolns.
Edward Oooverse Voorhies,

942

[Aug. 1,

Relurm of the Subordinate Lod.ges

.

MASTER MASONS:

Allen, George
Bell, William
Bowman, Frank Austin
Borke, Thomas Jefferson
Boros, William Hector
Caldwell, Jamee Walter
Colbert, Charles Leonard
Oolbert, Thomas Lilly
Davis, Tallyeeio
Deacon, Hiram
Dennis, Jackson
Ellis, John
Fleming, Joseph
Fr87.er, Martin Luther

Gerrane, Jeremiah
Redpath, Robert .
Gerrans, John
Richardson, Lorenzo Corn's
Batterely, John
Sander~, William Atwood
Jones, Edward
Smith, Samoel
Lithgow, Theodore
Styles, George Washington
M.itchell, Oharles Ormby Trevorrow, Anthony
Myers, Daniel
Trodgen, Thomas William
Nicholls, James
Vollmer, John
Nixon, Malarhi Doyle
Walter, Henry Franklin
Norton, William Henry
Watkins, Royal
Parsons, William
Weil, Aaron
Patterson, David Anderson Wildman, William Torrell
Peterson, Oharles Henry Williams, Benj. Cleveland
Ponnstooe, Lawrenz Rider Yelmlnl, Victor Paciflc-61.

ENTERED APPBENTIOE :

WITHDRAWN:

Hornberger, Nickolas-1.

Milliken, Jeaee-1.
DIED:

1896.J

To the G'fand Lodge .of OaU(ornia.

Hirst, Rolandos Porter
Bovey, Franll
Jackson, Andrew
Jones, John Johnson
Lange, Peter Christian
Leland, William Lester
Martin, Milton Terney
Nichols, Henry
Orr, Oliver
Osterman, Jurgen

94$

Prather, Olarence Morton Torner, Walter /
Robertson, Henry David
Turner, William Wallace
Barter, Harvey Johnson
Wadew_orih, .Henry
Shearer, Robert
· Wadsworth, James Henry
Sheldon, Luther An.l[Ustos Walbank,Edward .Moutagoe
Simmons, George
Walker, Benjamin Franklln
Smith, Benjamin Franklin White, James Melville
Straw, Isaac Jefferson
White, Samnel
Truax, Andrew Yates
Wilkinson, Burnell Damont
Traitt, Henry
-6i.
ENTERED APPRENTIOES :

Jones, Alfred Mcc°lellan
Soule, Stephen H

Wallace, Stephen Thomas

Waters, Jacob-'.

RESTORED:

Connor, Riobard Lee
Martin, Milton Terney
DaTideon, James McDermott

Robertllon, Henry David-'.

WITHDRAWN:

DIED:

Vance, James-1.

Gillis, Charles Brockden-1.

• Ayer, John Woodman-1.

HOWARD LODGE, No. 96.

JEFFERSON LODGE, .No. f17.

Yreka, Shkiyoa. County.

La Porte, Pla.Dl&• County.

&ated Mutinga, aecond Monday in each month.

Stated Mutinga, .firat Saturday in each month.

OFFICERS1

OFFICERS1

Frederick Alexander Antenreith, .Ma..U!r, Lewis Farren Ooburn, Senior Deacon,
Henry Conroy DeWitt, Senior Warden, George Washington Cooper, Jun. Deaor>n,
George Frederick Houghton, J. Warden, James Robert Tapscott, Marahal, .
Joho Enoch Harmon, Treaaurer,
William Lennox,
l BIR. ID
Frederick Martin, Secretary,
William Lorenzo Hobbs, f .wm· '
Samuel Pellet {or St. John'• Lodge, No. 3'1), Tyler.

John Milton Maasey, Maater,
William Marcellos Clark, Settior DlaOOfl,
David WOorbett, Senior Warden,
Oliver Fraoois Caya, Junior Deacon,
W1lliam Sherman, Junior Warden,
J oho Baptiste Lasslat, Marlhal,
Benjamin Wilcox Barnes, Treaaurer,
Charles William Bendel, l Btelllard.B
Francis Cayot, Beoretary,
Andrew Johnson,
f
'
Onezime Liberty, T11ler.
Paat lllaatera •

P . .t Maatera 1

David Ree.m,
John Morris.Walbridge,
Hodson B Gillie,
Jobo William Bird,

John Enoch Harmon,
Clarence Stewart Smith,
Calvin Levi Gregory,

Oharles Amos Larison,
Jamee Robert Tapscott,
Frederick Alex. Antenreith.

MASTER MASONS:

Antenrelth, Edw'd Herman Connor, Richard Lee
Eddy, Nelson Harvey
Babcock, William Lee
Davidson, Jas. McDermott Fabrlcious, Andrew Jackson
Barton, John Henry
DeWitt, Elisha
Fairchilds, John Abraham
Beard, John Bamoel
DeWitt, Robert Hewitt
Fielder, John Lorimer
Brannan, Thomas
Doten, Josiah Wilson
Hart, Edwin Charles
Oolle.r, Adanlron Judson
Eddy, Irving Levi
Henderson, Peter

Benjamin Wilcox Barnes,

John Milton Mnasey,

Eugene Bqoier.

MASTER MASONS :

Brewster, Herbert
Bronet, Leon
Gourley, Fitz Allen
Ham, Moses W. Bnraham
ifones, Thomas William

Kingdon, Henry
Mallen, Nathaniel B
Kinman, Geo. Washington Robertson, Jobo Hutchinson
Lucas, John Samoel
Shaw, Charles Henry
Mason, Henry
Wendler, Fred'k Sherman
McNalre, George Morrison Wingate, Charles Birkmlre
-2'1.
DIEDI

Pro11110r, Willlam-1.

944

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

1b the Grand LOOge of OaUfornia.

1896.]

[Aug. l,

945

MASTER MASONS:

HORNITOS LODGE. No. 98.

•

Hornltoa, Marlpoaa County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERSi

William Adams, Master,
Joseph Branson, Senior Deaoon,
William Smith Thomas, Senior Wardell, Samuel Tippett, Junior Deacon,
Joseph Spagnoli, Junior Warden,
William Adolph Grade, Marsha.l,
Joseph Franklin Thorn, Ireasurm·,
John Henry Mitchell,
l StetDards,
John Bahtlsta Trabucco, Secretary,
James Thomas Gribble, f
Benjamin Allen Shepard, 7'yZer.
Past lllaster •

William Adams.
MASTER MASONS :,

Floyd, William Benjamin
Hnnter, William Wilkin

Jacobs, Levy Taylor
Washington, Patrick

Webber, Geo. Edward
Willinlls, Henry-'-17.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Ball, David Wilder
Oamps, Geroloma

McMillan, John Alexander

Barfield, Geor~e Hardwick Hamlin, Ernest.Kimball
Bauman, Jnlins Gruenwald Hammatt, Robert William
Blumenthal, Bernard
Hardwick, Wm. Jetreraon
Breen, Nicholas
Harris, Oharles
Burchell, Milton Cook
Harris, Reuben
Oarpenter, Ransom Ambers Horsley, William Henry
Olark, Lew Bradley
Houghton, Frederick T
Cook. George Beecher
Huffman, Charles Henry
Hnlse, Alfred Wood
Croop, Stephen Decatur
Cunningham, James
Hant, William Horton
Deaner, John Allen
Jacob, Isaac Henry
DeLoss, Herbert
.
Johnson, Marion Craig
Fleming, Charles Edgar
Jones, J os~ph Simpson
Fraser, Alexander Simon Landram, John Oarr
Marks, Charles Henry
Jl'rnit, Jeft'erson
Oaribaldi, Giacomo
McKaln, Edward James
Goldman, Louis
Naffziger, John
Hall, Thomas Albert
Neighbor, Gilbert Bodine

Ordway, Francis Moody
Peck, Francis
Poor, Floory Gnstin
Ralston, Clark
Reed, John Truman
Robinson, Charles Angnstos
Roes, Henry Obristofer
Sproule, Isaac Henry
Stevens, Abram Robbinson
Stoddard,Ebenezer Maxwell
Stoneroad, Geo. Washington
Terrell; Overton Harrison
Turner, William Henry
Warfield, Charles Alex. H.
Westbay, William Wesley
Wilson, Nathaniel Hoag
Worden, Hyland Hubbard
-H.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

WITBD.RAWN:

McSwain,John Fruit-1.

Compton, Warren-1.
DIED:

Becker, Frederick

Coleman, William Ellis

Silman, William Lewis-S.

Reeb, George-4.

CAMPO SECO LODGE, No. 100.
Valley Sprlne., Calaveras County.

State,J, Meetings, Saturday Pf or nezt.preceding Full Mwn.
OFFICERS:

LA GRANGE LODGE, No. 99.
Merced. Merced Couaty.

Stated Meetings, fir8' Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Oscar Alexander Baker, Marter,
Albert Pitzer, Senior Deacon,
Ja1Dt!118imoo1 Senior Warden,
Adolph Jacob Zirker, Junior DNoon,
William Thomas King, Junior Warden, James Leonard, Marshal,
Aaron BU:dt,
l [JtewardB
Morris Goldman, 7reasurer,
John G Elliott, Stloretal'y,
Walter Nathan Sherman, f
'
George Washington Yoakum, T11l.er.
Paat Maatera •

Oarter Landram,
Edward Stephen O'Brien, William John Hart,
James Leonard,
Hiram New'n Bucker,P.G.M. Frank Horace Gould,
William Leland Means,
Robert Gracey,
Oharles Simon,
Eldridge Gerry Rector.
Joho Harmony Appling,
Albert Pitzer,

Anthony Anderson, Ma1ter,
William Bright March, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Celestine Diebold, Senior Warden, James Bennett Lncas, Junior Deaoon,
John Donald Baker, Junior Warden,
Hiram Ashley Messenger, Marshal,
Christian Borger, '.lreasurer,
John Kellogg Pattee, l stew 11'
Edward John Borger, Secretary,
George Weber Cotter, f
ar '
Edward Maher, Pyler.
Past Masters r

Edward Maher,

Hiram Ashley Messenger,
Anthony Anderson,

Edward John Borger.

MASTER MASONS :

Bacigalnppl, John Angostino Holman, Ira Newfield
Borger, Lonie Wesley •·
Messenger, Nelson Cyros
French, Edward Turner
Palmer, John Wm. Dene!

Schrack, Henry Olay
Temby, John Henry, Jr.
-19.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Truman, Charles .Amo-1.

Walter, Charles Francis-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:.

Hinckley, Joseph Johnson

30

Johnson, Franklin Lafayette

Peters, John Henry-8.

946

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodgea

[Aug. 1;

1896.]

To the Grand LodrJe. of OaUforni,a.

947

MANZANITA LODGE, No. 102.
OLAY LODGE, No. 101.

' .

Dutch Flat, Placer County.

Stated. Meetings, Saturday oj or ne:i:t preading Full Moon.
OFFICERS a
Brigham Bliss McKenzie, Master,
Adams Barrett, Senior Deacon,
Henry Herman Hudepohl, Sen. Warden, Lorenzo Jacobs, Junior Dea.aon,
John Henry LaKamp, Marshal,
John Hamilton, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - , 7Yeaaurer,
George Gould Towle, l Stm.oards,
Frank Ketchubl,
f
Isaac Tibbets Coftln, Secretary,
Thomas Pattinson, Tyler.
Salon MoKeen Curtis, Ohaplain,

North San .Juan, Nevada County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a
Albert James Wood, Master,
John Trood, Senior Deaoon,
William Dunning, Senior Warden,
Frederick William Bank, J'Uflior Deacon,
Charles Sanford Paine, Junior Warden, John Storer McBride, .Marshal,
John German, Treaaurer,
~s~.s, } S~arda,
Patrick Henry Butler, &oretary,
Joseph Gordon Dickson, Tyler.
Past Masters a
Charles Edward Lancaster,
John Trood,

John Storer McBride,
John Ambrose Seeley,

Past Masters a
Adams Barrett,
Isaac Tibbetts Ooftln,
Henrv Ells,
Samuel Baker Harriman,

John Bell Rathbun,
Samuel Edward Swensson,
Ephraim Marriner Thomas,

Albert James Wood,
Charles Sanford Paine.

MASTER MASONS :

Thomas Pattinson,
James Beebe Knapp,
Brigham Bliss McKenzie.

MASTER MAl:!ONS:

Noyes, Henry Leonard
Halsey, Henry Hyer
Amadeo, Nicola
Holmes, William John
Noyes, lllark Fisk
Beamer, John
Huyslnk, Bernard Henry
Oates, Lewis Davis
Berry, John Murrey
Peters, Metkalf Lorenzo
Buckman, Benjamin Sims Iverson, Jens Hans
Rose, David
Buckman, Thomae Milbon Jefferson, Matthew
Jones, William
Rose, James
Clendening, John
Rawlins, Walter Augustus
Olondman, Octavius King Josink, Bernard Henry
Lamprey, Frank
Rathbun, Frank Laroe
Oook, William
Robie, Ir11. Allen
Leary, Jerry
Davis, Abraham
Lohman, Peter
Schell, Perry Benjamin
Diner, Henrv
Maguire, Francis Torner
Schmidt, George Wilhelm
Drynon, Alexander
Maker, George Samuel
Schou, Hans Johnson
Duncan, David
Sherrift', Henry
Erskine, Alexander Edwin Martin, Henry Vassal
lllartin, Noble
Simons, Henry
Eshbach, David Mayer
McDonald, Horatio
White, William Henry
Frentel, Henry
McCormack, Malcolm
Whitten, Frederick W
Gifford, Robert
Mitchell, William Frederick Whistler, William Girard
Gowling, Philip
Nichols, Thomas Jefferson Wilkinson, William-72.
Griffin, Oliver
Griffiths, Benjamin James
WITHDRAWN:

Heuser, George Henry-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

DIED:

Hodepohl, Herman Rudolph-1.

Griffiths, Jeremilih-1,

Bell, Francis Hiram
Bigelow, AshleJ Smith
Billing, John
Buhring, Harry Herman
Bristow, William
Callaghan, Samuel
Chisholm, James
Clymo, Francis
Coll, Henry
Cunard, James Henry
Farley, George Sidney

Fuller, Henry Bailey
Phillips, Reuben
Quick, John
Gilbert, Josiah Stephen
Godfrey, Charles
Rosendale, Otto Emanuel
Harris, Thomas
Schenerman, Charles
Harris, Thomas Voel
Thomas, Richard
Jones,William Art.bµr (let) Trood, William
Johes, William Arthur {2d) Trezise, Henry
lllcCullough, Robert James Westerfield, Wm. Jackson
Morris, James Daugherty Williams, John
Nankervis, John
Wood, Frank Merton-42.

Godfrey, Fred.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Thomae, Cornelius Thomae-2.

OROVILLE LODGE, No. 103.
Oroville, Butte County,

Stated Meetings, last Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Seth Sprague Boynton, Senior Deaoon,
Daniel Hilton, Master,
Riobard DeLanoie, Junior Deacon,
Charles Dennis Dunn, Senior Warden,
Warren Sexton, Marshal,
William Hobert Dixon, Jun. Warden,
Jonn Carleton Gray, lretUUt"er,
Thomas White Reece,
t Stewards
George Washinirton Dyer, f
'
Hei:iry Obapmau Hills, Seuretary,
J oho Konstantine Mitchell, 7}'1er.
John Guidery, Ohap!ain,
Isaac Upham,
John Carlton Gray,
William Sumner Higgins,

Pa•t Masters a
Richard DeLancie,
Seth Sprague Boynton,

Adolph Cohn,
Donald Macfarlane.

•

948

Returns of the Svl:JOTdinate Lodge.s

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand, Lodgo of OaUfornia.

949

MASTER !i14SO:DTB :

MASTER MASONS :

Archibald, Alonzo Leone.rd Gothrie, Charohill Phillip :M.cCa.ige, George Dyer
Osmood, Micha.el
Haddox, John Theodore
CroBB, George
Packer, Martin Luther
Ha.yes, Thomae Fra.oois
De.vie, William 0
Pearson, William Robert
Dodson, Clayborn Bartel Killian, Lawson Bedford
Pinma., Joseph-St.
La.ngsta.dter, Iaa.la.h 8
Dodson, Elbert Jones
Maxon, Benje.min Franklin
Farmer, Louis

Ambrose, Herbert George Grobbs, Richard Champion Moseley, James Oscar
Atobieoo, Thomas Aodrew Grubbs, William Jacksoo Noack, Gustave Richard
N or•oo, Lewie Elliott
Bel me, Houston '
Baker,, William Austin
Ostroski, Samnel
Herrin, William James
Billa, John Harrison
·Parker, Ralzemond
Hober, James
Brooke ; Frank
Bohiveley, Oharles Henry
Balllngton, Perry Frsnklin Hnndley, Patrick Ogilby
Serviss, Thomas Wilson
Bntler, Oharlea Frederick Hotchins, Thomas Boyd
Simon, Lonie Aaron
James, Thomas Morgan
Ohappalse, Andre
Simon, Samuel Samuel
·
Oleaveland, Judst>n Adon'm Johnson, Thomae
Smith, Herbert Worrall
Jones, Albert Foster
Day, Elias Warner
Sparks, Ebenezer Morrison
Friesleben, Daniel Nathan Kelly, Thomas Joseph
Bpragoe, Frederick Adam
Leonard, John Pierce
Gale, John
Topia, Prince Louis
Longnecker, George H
Gariepy, Leon Lodger
Topping, William Orane
Marks, Joseph
Grace, Robert Patrick
Wakeham, Luther
Martin, David Groves
Graham, George James
Maxwell, Jefferson Hooston Ward, William
Gray, James Ohadwiok
McOoy, Benjamin Lincoln White, Richard
Green, Robert Moore
.MoGoffio, James Abraham Whittier, Merrill-70.
Grobba, John .Monroe
FELLOW CRAFT:

ENTERED APPB'lf:N"rIOI:

Morgan, William J ohn-1.

Worth, George_:l,

FELLOW CRAFT 1

Beale, Malcolm Den~l.
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Walker, Fra.nklin-3.

Ga.yeta.no, Castino

Elliott, Alexander
RAISED:

WlTHDBAWN:

Qaeberg, Edward Ca.rroll-1,

Qaeberg, Edward Carroll-I.

SUSPENDED FOR NON- PAYMENT OF DUES:

McKinney, Edwin-2.

Bell, Charles M

RESTORED:

Daily, Oha.rlea Henry-I.

'

WITHDRAWN:

Oarndnff, Frank Ford

AROATA LODGE, No. 106.

Dally, Charlea Henry-2,

A.roata, Humboldt County,

DIED:

Ball, John Miller-1.

Stated Mutinga, first Monday in each month.

LEXINGTON LODGE, No. 104.

Oetje Herman Gerhard Ma.rken,S.Deacon,
Thomas Devlin, Master,
George Wilson Harpst, Senior Warden, Sylvester Myers, Jtmior Deacon,
Joseph Frank Korbel, Jr., Jun. Warden, Thomas Rothben Emerson, Marahm,
Wesley Whipple Stone, '.li"easurer,
l Stewardl,
James Boss,
John Paul Honda, f
Charles Smith; Bearetary,
William Nixon, 'l'y'/JJr,
leaa.o Callberg, Ohaplain,

OFFICERS•

El lllonte,

Loa A.114rele11 County.

Paat lllaatera 1

Arthur Seidell,
Thomas Devlin,

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or nezt precding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

• '

'Isaac Fonk Baker, Ma.st11r,

David Irwin Ritter. &mior Deacon,
Elka.na. 0 Parish, Ju'llior Deacon,
John Scott Killian, Senior Wtil"den,
Frederick Pason Cave, Junior Wtirden, James B Olemlneon, Mar•hal,
J oho Waterman Barton, 7i"eaaur11r,
William Long Dodson, l stewards,
·Joseph Bortoo Killian, f
Charles Boward, Becrettiry,
George Washington Dobyns, Ohaplain, Thomas J.. Wiggins, 7Yler.
Paat llla•tera 1

David Irwin Ritter.,

Jesse Bradford Gunnels,

Richard Qolna.

t

Irvine Levi Harpster,
Melvin Parker Roberts,

Oetje Herman Gerba.rd Marken,
Charles Isaiah Harpst.

MASTER MASONS:

Anderson , James Peter
Anra.od, Frank Olatron
Baker, James Sargent
Barber, Herbert Anson
Berne, Jacob Weil
Bowen, Gardner Case
Brizard, Alexander
Brown, Edgar
~ Brown, Thoma.s McGinnis

Falk, Noah H
Boll, John Clark
Falor, Frank Engene
Boll, John Clark, Jr.
Chandler, Geo.Washington Francie, Joseph Marie
Chisholm, John Benje.min Graeter, Luther Drury
Greenwald, Jolina
Deming, Byron Briggs
Hansen, Peter Andreas
Ericson, August William
Harpst, Cornellns N
Everding, Loois Charles
Harpel, John
Falk, Charles Eugene
Ha.wton.Bobert
Falk, Elijah

Returns of the Subordinate Lodrjea

950

Honda, Bohemiel Antonin
Jackson, Elisha Benjamin
Jackson, Harry Woodville
Johansen, Nelson Baker
Kemp, James
Marvin, George D
MoLeod, John
Menefee, Peter Mason
Moore, Jamee McDonald
Nelson, Aaron Frederick

1896.]

[Aug. 1

Noe, Jedse Lafayette
Stewart, Adam Hugh
Nye, Felix Peter
Sndbrock, Albert
Patenaude, Amoe Octave Teal, Charles Wellington
PrenBB, Theodore Reinbold Theerman, Henry Harm
Ray, Charles Benjamin
Truesdell, Clifford Ambrose
Vaclav, Zarnba
Scott, George Murdick
Sherburne, Benj. Frl\nklin VaiBBade, Benjamin
Spring, Obadia.b Rill
Wilson, Jamee
Stearns, George Addison Zehendner, George-72.
Sterns, Bernard Fr11onk

RAISED: .

WITHDRAWN:

Chidester, Marlon-1.

Chidester, Marion-1.

PAJARO LODGE, No.

.llonkman, John Francis

951

iio.

Wataon....uJ.e, Sant.a Craz County,'

State~ Meetinga, 1econd Saturday in each month.
OFFIClERSt

Franklin Edwin Mauk, Malter,
Alexander Sterling, 811111.or Deaaon,
Joseph R. Uren, Senior Warden,
Edward Francie Wyokofl, Junior Deacon,
Joline Lee Burbeok, Junior Warden,
William Arthur Trafton, Marthal,
John Jacob Morey, 71-eaaurer,
Charles Cleveland,
l Stewarda,
John Herbert McEwen, (Jeoretary,
Edward Grant Borland, f
John Allen Howard,. 7)/Z.W.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-Pi\YMENT OF DUES:

Boom, Stanley Cornelins
Chandler, Edward Aognstns

To the Grand LfJdge of Oalifornia.

Morrell, Frank Edward-4.

Past Ma•ters 1

Jamee Waters,
William George Hodson,
Alexander Barker Chalmers,

John Francie Cox,
Bela Sargent Andrews,

George Welllngton Sill,
Franklin Edwin Mank.

MASTER MASONS :

OWEN LODGE, Nq. 108.
Seott•a Bar, Sla~you County.

Stated Meetinga, ~ednuday . of or n~ pr~ing Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Arthnr Simon, Ma.ter,
Dan Caldwell, BeniOr Deacon,
Charles Herman Simon, Senior Wardm, William John Steele, Junwr Deacon,
Joseph Barnaby Lednc, JuniorWanlm, Timothy Dearborn ADBtln, .Marshal,
Greenbury Anderson Hicks,' 7hasurer, Oliver Warner Goodale, l stewarda
Elisha Jacobi, &orlltary,
Henry Spear McKinney, f
'
Owen Williams, '.ij/Z.W.
Paat lllallten'

Elisha Jacobs,

Ernest August ZoelUn,

Arthur Simon.

MA.STER MASONS :

Botcher, William Thomas
Garretson, Job

Lindsay, James Harrison
Patek, Mu
DIED:

Jacobs, Benjamin-I,

Shearer, Hiram Daniel
'I'.ickuer, Henr1 Chartel- 18.

••

Aldrich , David Metcalf
Dorn,Nieodemoe Andrew J. Rogers, Robert Ayton
Andlnwood, Edward
Fowler, Oharles
R01!8l, Pasqa&le
Austin, Sands Frederick
Gagnon, Michael
Rooee, Parker Sandy
Bl:i:by, Aaron William
Harris, lsaac Wisner
Seitz, George
BoWll!an, George Melville Hedgepeth, Matto Marshall Shaver, Eugene O
Br&BBell, Hans Peter
Holllngsberry, Frank Geo. Storm, Peter
Brewington, Geo, Hamilton Hudson, Mark Antony
Swearengen, Frank Corday
Brown, John Bernard
Hursh, George Washington Thompson, Samnel Halleck
Bnrbeok, William
Jarrett, Joseph Samuel
Thorwaldeen, Hora.oe
Borland, Robert
Jones, Allen Presbery
TonrBgney, Carlos
Borland, William Henry
Kilborn, Fred'k Angostos Trafton, George Arthur
Obalmers, Wm. Alexander Lane, IJenry
Trafton, John Edmond
Leland, Thomas
Trafton, Howard Valentine
Olark, Edgar Lewie
Oleveland, George Clirton Lennard, Frederick John Trafton, George Arthur
Coffman, Stephen William Morris, Moses
Waters, Peter Kemp
Condit, Amos Wallace
Norris, James Alexander Weber, Henry Louis
Palmtag, Charles A
Cooper, William Bnrtoo
Weeks, James Edmund
Conrtwriirht,William Henry Pearson, Thomas Cook
West, Danforth
Cox, Robert Benjamin
Porter, John Thomas
White, Charles John
Delmere, Alexander
Porter, Warren Reynolds White, James
Wilson, William
Dengler, Philip
Rea, Charles Bert
Dixie, Richard
Rodgers, Wm. Donaldson Wood, Abraham Chase
-8Z.
FELLOW OBAJ:i'T :

WITHDRAWN:

Trafton, Thomae Engene-1.

Drew, Charles Angust118-l,

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Oodlgo, Rafl\al
English, Felix Grundy

Hall, James AugodOB

Rollino, Aquilino-'·

DIED:

Borson, David Henry

Mynett, Elvin Farner-2.

952

Returns of the Suhordi-nate Lodgu

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge .of Oal!ifornia.

1896.J

SUM MIT LOD GE, No. 112

CHI CO LOD GE, No. 111.
Chleo , Batte Coun ty.

ding Full Moon.
Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or nezt prece

_

OFFI CER S1

Thome.a Bicknell, Senior l>eacrin,
m. Richard Williams, Juntor Deaooo,
Willia
Emil Mayhem, Senior Warden,
Eugene Erastus Canfield, .Marshal,
Archibald Thompson Kerr, Jun. Warden,
Thomas L Bohlender, } Btf.'lllards
urer,
'.freaa
Charles Faulkner,
'
.
on Mcca rgar,
Harm
tary,
Seore
Gilbert Hart Taylor,
ey, 7'yler.
Bradl
Leroy
m
Willia
Henry Ballet, Oha.pla(n,

J oho Cardiff Daly, Master, ·

Paet Ma•t era1

Edward B Pond,
William Henrv Duren,
Augostoe Harley Chapman,
John Rose Robinson,
George Mlller,

Cyrus Greenleaf Warren,
Ed ward Tillotson Reynolds,
Bam' I Hoot er Montgomery,
Jefferson Davie March,
Willlam Henry Miller,

William Thomas,
Jame s Madison Dugger,
Thomas Bicknell,
Harmon Mcca rgar,
William Roblie.

MASTER MASONS:

·Peake, William Humphrey
Applegate, William James Guill, Lee Bryan
Perki ns, Josep h Doan
n
Mario
ant
Pleas
n,
Guyn
Barna rd, Timothy Henry
Peter s, Pincus
ass
Dougl
Henry
omb,
Batchelder, Hiram Treat Hanec
Peterson,Geo.Fred.Cbrist'n
Hansen, Lauri tz
Bell, Hugh Thomas ·
rd
Haughton, Jas. Richardson Phillips, Rioba
Boucher, Josiah, Jr:
Ralston, Robert Bruce
s
Jame
,
Hegan
ney
Court
'Broyles, Adam
Roper , J oho Wesley
Burro ughs, Harry De Fores t Henshaw, Park
Schooler, William Heury
n
Marlo
Carney, Geo. Washington Hilliard,
s Thomae Shaw , Baker Ewing
Jame
way,
Hollo
Leroy
r
Walte
ler,
Chand
Shilling, John Stephen
Hoyle, Jonas Marion
Chaplin, Frank N
Smith, Levi
r
Taylo
Ralph
,
Jones
l
Clark, Oliver Lovel
Spencer, Thomaa Case
Jones, Samuel
Ooetar, William Jamee
bury, Oscar
Stans
f
Datle
Lausen, Henry
Crail, Luke Dillard
Stevens, Warren Charles
Jr.
John,
Linn,
11
1
H.
nder
Alexa
,
Orew
Thrower, John Oscar
Linn, William Birney
Crew, Henry William
er, Joseph Benn et
Throw
Hale
ew
Matth
op,
Lothr
d
Cunningham, Chas. Arnol
William Henry
,
Usher
nder
Alexa
R
Charle
,
March
Cuesick, Barney
Warren, Edward Archer
McAnarlin, William
Davidson, Jame s
N
Mcintosh, Lewie Harrison Watson, John
Dicus, Samuel Calvin
n, Jubal
Westo
Boyd
el
Samu
s,
Mean
Durham, Wm. Wellington
Alston
Messenger, Reuben Henry Wetherbee, Ira
Eliot, Wesley Stockwell
s
Dariu
Harry
,
White
Ewing
e
Jlltcbell, Jame
Entle r, Josep h Franklin
dford Woodl!, Charles Huntington
W.Bra
J.
ry,
gome
Mont
mer
Morti
John
Garner,
e-98.
Moody, Stephen Presc ott Yoong, Jame
Gibson, Josep h -Olyde
Gleeson, John Rodney
WITHDRAWN:

RESTORED:

Montgomery, Park -1.

Hanscomb, Henry Doogl~l.
Linn, John
Papst," Oharles Jame s

Knle ht•a Ferry , Sta.n lalau 0o.

.ty.

Full Moon.

ding
Stated Meeting11, Saturday of or ne:et prece
OFFI CER S1

.
Fr · is
George Thomas MoCabe Maater
·w·~J~o ~eoni~as Griffin, timio r l>eaoon,
William David Logan s:nior W~rden
Fr;d~~:k ;~~is B~b, Junior .Deacon,
Charles Thome.a Tollo,oh, Junior War~,
am owe, Mar1hal,
Th
·Cb
W'er
7re48
Osmon o. Drew,
omas Kennedy ' lf Bte111arda,
ar1es
'
s,
Asa Collin
H enry Branton Pentland, Beoretary,
Joseph Lee Hocker, 7}/ler.
Past Mast era:

David Franklin Edwards,

John Watner,
Joseph Lee Hock er,

Charles Thomae Kennedy.

MASTER MASONS :

Beok, John
Bentley, Jefferson Daniel
Brooke, Cicero Blackwell)
Carmichael, Daniel Wbitf'ld
Crabtree, Mark Trafton

Gooch; Jame s Lewis
Griffin, William
Johnson, Thomae
Lawrence, Edga r Bolton
Lowe, Eugen" Hebe r

Matthews, Jame s
Morgan, Frank Alber t
Slook, Jaob
Warner, Jame s-27.

ENTE RED APPR ENTI CE:

DmD :

Fae88en, Arn~Jd John -I.

Means, Andrew Jackson-:-1.

EJ?E N LOD GE, No. 113.
San Lean dro, Alam eda Coun ty.

c"ding
Stated M"ting11, Saturday of or ~ 11Uc
OFFI CER S;

William Berry McKenzie, Marter,

John Driver

Full Moon.

Sen.; DJ:;JDe

~ Bollen,
Edmnn~ Anderso~.Watkins, Ben. Warden, Mark nBletso
Jorge nsen, Marshal,
Ben~a~n Franklin McDannel, Jun. War. Jorgem Fnlton, l

aoon,

Willia
Ben1amm Cotrell Hawes, '.lreaaurer,
George Downie, f Btewardll,
John Frede rick Ernst Hopp er, Beoretary,
.Alhrekt Laorits Hansen, '.lVler.
Paet lllast era 1

DmD :

Boydstun, Jas. Knox Polk
Lee, Wesley

953

. Reavis, David Mort on-5.

Joseph Peter Dieves,
William John Land en,

31

Hercu les Andre :?forio,
. J oho Fred 'k Emal Hopp er,

Amzi BOar y,
Ira Ham Bradshaw.

Relt1irn8 of the Subordinate

954

Lodges

[A.ug, 1,

1896,]

To the Grand Lodge .of Oalifomia.

955

MASTER MASONS :

Armstrong, Thos. Charles Henricksen, James
Reid, John
Besoheinen, Jnllns
Henricksen, Neils
Roberis, Andrew Gove
Bilger, Frank William
Hill, Otis
Schlenter, Edvin Oharles
Bjorkman, An1tust
Hollis, James Lyman
Sharpe, Frank Benjamin
Black, John
Jackson, David
Shiman, John Lewis ·
Boyce, Samnel Edward
Jamison, John William
Singleton, John
• Bradley, James Walter
Johnson, George
S.mith, James Dale
Cary, Tallcntt Patekin
Kelly, Wllliam
Smyth, Henry
Cassidy, John Alfred
Kinsel!, Harry Bearing
Stenzel, Fritz
Ohaplin, Oharles Henry
Leland, Frank Milton
Stone, Egbert Barker
Clark, William Amie
Lyon, William
Stnrtevant, Noah Thom&&
Crabb, Allie Lonis
Macdonald,Edward Donald Tassel, Henry George
Dawbarn, Oharles
Marlin, Brady Washington Vivian, Godfrey
Ferrera, Alonzo Antonio Marlin, Henry .Bowers
Warren, William Wallace
Fleming, George
· Moore Albert Alfonso
Wilkie, Thomas B
Gates, Dawson David
Ohea, 'George Harvey
Woodworth, A.sael Benjamin
Gray, Benjamin Dinsmore Palmer, Charles Edgar
Young, James Harry
Gray, Newton
Pimental, Francisco
Young, Willard Henry-72.
Henricksen, Henry
Reid, Alexander Barr
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Hansen, Sophus Alfonso E-1.

Stone, Andrew L-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

DuBois, Snmner Vlgtor
Larsen, George

Simonsen, Lon~

Ross, Isaac Jennings
DIED:
Tenber~, Louls-1.

MOUNT ZION LODGE, No. 114.
· Grizzly Flat, El Dorado Coant;v.

Stat~d Meetings, Saturday of or ne:i:e preceding FUU Moon.
OFFICERMa

Moees Ohandler Wheeler, Masttir,
Thomas Teesdale, Senior Warden,

Gabriel Wernb, Senior Deacon,
Martin Beale, Junior .ZHlacOfl,
__ - - , Junior Ward8n,
John Henry Fuller, Jlarlhal;
Robert King Clalbonme, '.lrea1urer,
- - ~- • t Stewa.rdB,
Samuel Angnstus Laine, Secretar1J.
Rnggiero Carboni, S
William Cole, 1yler.
0

CONCORD LODGE, No. 117.
Sacramento, Sacramento County,

Staud .Meetings, second Tuuday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Albert Elgin Robinson, Mastw,
Thomas Joseph He1111on, Senior Deaoon,
Lonis William Matthias, S8niorWard8n, John William Charlesworth, Jun. Deaoon,
John Manrice Ohapman, Juy.iorWarden, Michael Thomas Coppersmlth,Jlarlhal,
John Grabler, '.lreaaurer,
George Hnrlbert Stephenson, l Bt61D da
William Henry Hevener, 811crfta1'1J,
William Baggley Oldfield,
f
ar '
Oharles Titus Seavey, 7)/lm'.
Pa•t llla•ter•1

William Henry Hevener,
John Whitelaw·,
Samnel McDonald,
William McLanghlin,
Samnel Howard Gerrish,

William Rowland Jones,
Thomas Fox,
Harry Winans Carroll,
Joseph Davey,
Engene Julias Gregory,
·MASTER MASONS:

Alexander, Benj. Franklin Gilmore, Robert McOlellan Meller, Rapert
Banta, James F.
Godwin, Tho111aa
Menke, Anton
Book, Frank Weaver
Gregory, Frank
Miller, John Sanford
Bowsher, A.mos Lather
Goe'11, Michael
Nelson, Donald Jamee
Brown, William Z.
Gnthrie, John William
Nevis, Manne! Silva
Bnckley, John Joseph
Harrell, Albert Marshal
Nuttall, Levi
Barnett, Henry Ashbell
Hasselgreen,WilllamHenry Platt, Philemon Eli
Byrne, William James
Hayton, George Moses
Powell, John
Oarroll, John Francis
Herzog, Philip
Schaefer, Peter
Caswell, William Averill
Holzinger, Herman
Schocke, Charles August
Chatfield, Thomas F
Hornlein, Alvin Emil
Schroth, John George
Counor, Richard Albert
Hughes, John Law
Sheets,Oliver Hauard Perry
Davie, George Gray
Irvine, William John
Shepherd, Fred'k Angnstus
De Valin, William Henry Jameil, James Merrill
Smith, Alexander Miller
Dnnbar, Alexander
Jones, Wiil!am
Smith, Eli M
Dnsenberry, Malon
Jordan, Lather Oampbell Trovia, Balvatrove
Fairchild, Charles Herbert J oeeph, Joseph Aaron
Vioary, George Salser
Fischer, Henry
Lang, Joseph
Walsh, William
Gabrelli, Fiore
Lichthardt, Geo. Henry Wm.Watkins, Richard
Gerrish, Edward Laidley Longton, Henry
West, William Alfred-84..
FELLOW OB.,U'T:

Pallt Ma•ter• a

John Henry Faller,

Moses Chandler Wheeler,

F ELLOW ORA.FT :

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Daley, Thomas

Dnsean, John

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Meyers, George-1.
*1TlroRAWN :·

McLean, John Marion

Simonsen, Carl-1.

Robert King Olaibonrne,

MASTER MABON:
Hoxie, Ernest Jake- 12.
Edner, Joaeph-1.

Henry A.ugnst Heilbron,
Edgar Barclay Carroll,
Albert De Montfredy Johnson,
Lonie Cyrns Schindler,
Michael Thomas Coppersmith.

Walle~berg, Oharle; - 3.

Morten, John Leri-2.

956

Returns of the Svhordinate Loage,s

[Aug. 1,

.1896.]

To the . Grand Lodge of Oalif<>mia.

957

MASTER MASONS :

CLINTON LODGE, No. 119.
Iso, Shasta Count,..

Staud .Meetings, Saturday of ?r nezt preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS•

William Goodall, Masllir,
Elijah Mason Dixon, Senior Deacon, ,
Jae. Whittington George, Senior Warden, Carl George Voss, Junior Deacon,
James Knox Polk Lewie, Juntor Warden, Charles Wesliiy Richards, Marshal,
Alex1LDder Leiter, 7Teawurer,
Edward Loll Ballon, l Stewards
George Curtiss Downer, Secretaru,
Angus James Drynan, f
'
- - - - - - , Ohaplafa,
- - - - - - , 1;/lsr.
Paat Maatera 1

Elijah Mason Dixon,
Charles Nelson Kingsbory,
Thaddeus Alonzo Jones,

Alexander Leiter,
George Curtiss Downer,

Edward Lull Ballou,
William Goodall.

MASTER ¥!SONS:

Eldridge, Millard Filmore Jones, Thaddeus Alonzo, Jr. Willard, Charles Frederick
Furman, George Marenus Pervier, Mervin Edward
WilJarO,Geo, KittrQl)ge-20.
Hart, Tbomu Henry
Weil, David
·
SUSPENDED FOR NON- PAYMENT OF DUES:

Berg, Robert

Rasmus, Manford Conningham-2.

FIDELITY LODGE, No. 120.
San Franclaco, San Franclaco Co-t;v.

Stated Mutinga, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

Jacob George Leibold, Master,
Philipp Jacobovics, Senior Warllen,
Max Goldman, Junior Warden, ·

Joseph David Abrams, &nior Deaoon,
MuRes Friedman, Junior Deaoon,
Frederick Charles Jaeger, Marshal,
_ _ _ _ - - , Jtoeasurer,
Morris Herman Wasoerwitz, l Stewards
Frederick Barry, Secretary,
Abraham Thomas Barnett, f
'
Mitchel Joseph Myers, Tyler.
Paat Maatera 1

• Lonie Cohn,
Henry Falkenstein,
Juline Platshek,
Emanuel Emanuel,
Henry Williams,
Isaac Strassburger,
Milton Sidney Eisner,

Joseph Louis Armer,
Robert Day,
Gustave Brenner,
Jacob Voorsanger,
Samuel Dlnkelsplel,
Andrew Milton Armer,
Henry Simon Manheim,

Benjamin Armer,
George Evans Clingman.
Leopold Baer,
J a.mes Michael Ellis,
Isidore Nathan Levy.
Philip Davis.

1
I

Abrams, David
Falk, Solomon
Knights, Joseph Vinal
Ackerman, Sam'l0Beligman Featherstonhaugh,Frank O. Koenig, Ferdinand
Koehncke, Christian Henry
Agard, George Edward
Fisher, Henry
Fisher, Oscar
Kohlberg, Eugene Lincoln
Allenberg, Charles
Kohlberg, Manfred Selig
Bachman, Arthur
Fisher, WilliR.m Everett
Kohn, Oharles
Baden, Samuel
Fletcher, David.Maae
Barnch, Frederick
Fogel, George
Korn, Eugene
Frank, Morris Emanuel
Lacher, Isaac
Bauer, Moses
Baumann, Sigmund
Frankenberg, Joseph
Lachman, Albert
Lachman, Henry
Behrendt, Richard
Franklin, Max
Bender, Noah Wilhelm
Freidenrich, David
Lachman, Morris
L11tz, Benjamin
Berson, Gus. Pa.al Adolphe Friedlander, Morrie
Lees, Isaiah Wrigley
Berude, Johana Gottfried Friedman, Lazar ·
Friedman, Max
Levin, Isidor
Blaskower, Marks
Levy, Edward Julius
Block, Abram
Friedmann, Samuel
Levy, Henry
Bornstein, Morris Bello
Frohman, Henry
Boskowitz, Charles Joseph Fnlda, Edward
Levy;·Isaac
•
Bowes, William Emette
Galland, Edward Ralph
Lewie, William
Gambitz,,Kady
Lindner, Marks J
Brandenstein, Mayer
Brooke, Max
Getleson, Harry
Lipman, Joseph
Brown, Abraham Lincoln Getz, Louis
Lipman, Louis
Goldberg, Adolph
Loewe, Joseph Maurice
Brown, Bernard Charles
Brown; Isidor Irving
Goldberg, Joseph
Marcus, Louis Ferdinand
Brown, Morris
Goldberg, Simon Lipman Marke, Henry
Marks, Mannheim
Brown, Nathan
Goldman, Isaac Wolf
Bryer, Joseph Leopold
Goldwater, Miohel
Marke, Samuel Morris
Goodman, Isidor
Mayer, Max
Castello, H~ory Charles
. Guggenheim, David Joseph Mayer, Morris
Oecil, John
Gntte, Isidor
Mayer, Oscar Joseph
Classen, Adolph F. A.
Clayburgh, Moses
Hamburger, Moses Asher Mayer, Solomon Julius
McOray, Charles Carroll
Cohen, Joseph
Hamilton, Robert
Hammond, Samuel Chester McDevitt, Daniel
Cohn, Gabriel
Cohn, Gerson
Hatr!s, Adolph
Mcisaacs, Donald Cushing
Oolman, Morris
Heller, Emanuel Sigfried Merzbach, Felix Herman
Oolson, Edward Angnstos Heineman, Max M
Miller, Isaac
Cooper, Leopold
Hermida, Augustus
Moise, Philip Henry
Heyman, Gustave
Morris, Theodore
Damm, Richard Oscar
Mnsso, John
Heyman, Julius
Dlnkelspiel, Emile ·
Dinkelsplel, Joseph Lionel Hildebrandt, William Chas. Myers, George Henry
Dlnkelspiel, Joseph Samuel Hoffman, William Joseph Napthaly, Joseph
Hufschmidt, Louis
Nathan, Charles
Diokelsplel, I.ouis Maier
Ickelhelmer, Samuel
Nathan, Isaao
Drill, Albert )lenry
Jacobs, Isidor
Newgas, Henry
Edwards,, Dwight
Einstein, Jacob
Jacobs, Julius
Newman, Joseph
Einstein, Morris
Jacobsen, Jacob Erich
Newman, Simon
Joseph, Michael James
Elfelt, Joseph
Nielsen, Christian
Oberfelder, Tobias
Ellis, George Wentworth Juda, Morris
Osborn, Edward George
Emmerling, John
Kahn, Samuel Sigmund
Ottenheimer, Henry ioseph
Eppinger, Jacob
Kammerer, George
Eppinger, Josnd
Keiner, Herman
Peixotto, Edgar llavis
Erlanger, Simon
King, James Lucias
Pollitz, Edward

•
Returns bf the Subordinate Lodges

958

[Aug. 1,

Robina, George
Seligson, Michael
Btreeten, James Morgan
Robinson, Lonie Allen
Silverberg, Joseph S
Tadlch, Ivan Vincent
Roeenbanm, Samuel Moses Silverberg, Simon
Thorner, 'l'heodore
Rosener, Samuel
Silverman, Joseph
Thrane, Peler Ch. Ludwig
Rosenshiue, Leopold
Silverman, Moritz
Tommereg, Anders Emil
Rosensbine, Matthia.s
Voorsanger, Abraham Wolf
Simon, Charles Jacob
Rosenstein, Fritz
Simon, Henry
Wedel, John Michael
Rosenthal, Joseph
Simon, Siegfried
Weble, Isaac
Rosenthal, Marcus
Slmonoff, Morris
Weil, Leo
Roth, Adolph Benjamin
Smith, Benjamin Pitt Griffin Weissbein, Jacob
Roth, Maximillian
Solomon, Joseph
Weissbeio, Joseph
Bache, Henry
Solomon, Simon
Wessenberg, Dame! West
Sachs, Lippmann
Solomons, Lucius Lawrence Westbeimer, John Ferdio'd
S11chs, Samuel Louis
Spitz, Jacob
White, Frank Edson
Sahlein, Moses
White, Robert Franklin
Stearns, Henry Otis
Salfleld, David
Stern, Louis
White, Willard Claude
Bchlesioger, Nathan
Stern, Sigmund
Wigmore, James
Bchli•man, John Fred
Stone, Benjamin Lester
Willard, Maurice
Schmidt, Maurice
Winter, John Frederick
Stone, Marena
Schoenfeld, Jacob
Stone , Leon Daniel
Wise, Henry
Schultz, Jacob J olios
Straus, Louis
Wolf, Jacob William
Schweitzer, Morris
Strauss, Moses
Wormeer, Louis
Beeligsohn, Selig Max
Zuckerman, Adolph-252.
Btraues, Samuel

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.
Past Master••

William Green Wolfe,
Edward George Spencer,

McGraw, Dennis Joseph
Stemple, Henry
Nester, Benjamin Franklin Wiesler, William Henry
Williamson, George Thomas
Papa, John]
Rodino, Aquilino
Yoder, John Fraoklin-26.
WITHDRAWN:

Kinsey, Frank Joeeph-1.
DIED:

Makins, William Bwln-2.

Leighton, Augustna Lord

ALAMO LODGE, No. 122.
Walnut Creek, Contra Coat& Co-ty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nut suc~ding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Rich, Albert Joseph-1.

Walter Hicks Biggs, Master,
George Jay Smith, Senior Deaoon,
Winfield Scott Burpee, Junior D11aoon,
James David Hill, Senior Warden,
Rasmus Anderson, JunWr Warden,
- - - - - - . Marlhal,
Corodon Sharp, 7reasurer,
Myron Ward Hall,
t StlJ'Ulardl,
JRmee Marion Daley, Secretary,
Robert Lawrenoe Anderson, r
Ellphalet Charles Palmer, Tyler.
•

Haub, Charles Conrad
Solomon, Ellie Ezekiel
Steinman, Adolph Jobn-8.
Meyer, Samuel Charles
Simpson, Abraham David

Paat lllaaters 1

Dinkelspiel, Henry S

Edelman, Oharles-8.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Blum, Isidore

Raphael, Isidor

Walsh, Richard- 3.

Getz, Joseph
Levy, Felix Nathan

IONIC

LODG~,

Corodon Sharp,
Myron Ward Han;
Justus Michael Hinman,

Lewie Flanders Sherburne,
Albert Sberbnroe,
JRmes Marion D11ley,

Farmer Sanford,
Walter Hicks Biggs.

MASTER MASONS:

DIED:

Emanuel, Lewis
Esberg, Mendel

John Qoln_cy Ackerman.

William Nelson Bissett,
MASTER MASONS:

Chinn, James Weeks
Eddings, George Franklin
Hobson, John Beangarde
Jacobs, James Munroe

WITHDRAWN:

Diokelspiel, Henry

959

FELLOW ORAFT :

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Caldwell, Edward James
:tries, William
Goldstein, Sanford. Lewis

1896.]

Lllvy, Max
Simon, Simon Israel-6.

No. 121.

Iowa Hill, Placer County,

Stated Meetings, Saturday ne:ct pre~ding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

William Green Wolfe, Master,
Edward Mitchell, SMiior .Deaoon,
Russell Warren Brown, Senior Warden, Willie Fish Goold, Junior Deaoon,
William Isaiah Armstrong, Jun. Warden, Thomas Robinson, Marshal,
Daniel A. Rnssell, 'lrea1>.1rer,
Wm.John Theodore Christian, l Stewards,
Johu Mill, Beoretary,
Garrett Booth,
I
Chester Hackett, 'Iyler. .

Andereon,Robert Lawrence Heron, John Maxwell
Simeas, John
Bartola, David John
Kimball, Edwin
·
Stobi, John
Booth, Robert Frederir.k Lynch, William
Stow, James Marion
Caldwell, David Alexander Lynoh, William T
Tinnin, Francis Marion
Daily, Walter F.
McOolloogb, Daniel
Tinnin, Wiiiiam Jelferson
Daley, James Edwin
McKean, William Giles
Walker, James Tormey
Whitten, Charles Lincoln
Gamble, Samuel
McNnlty, Harry James
Gambe, Ferdinand
McPbeetera, George Wash. Wiley, George
Ganey, Frederick Harmon Ridgeway, Frazier
Williams, Arthur
Goold, Chf'rles Gardner
Shreve, Frederick
WilliRms, John-«.
Graham, Eugene Welling
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

RESTORED:

Leighton, Frank Wallace-I.

Lynch, Wiiiiam T-1.

WITHDRAWN:

Sydnor, Alfred Wyatt-1.

•

•
960

Returns of the Svl>ordina.te Lodge&

1896.J

[Ang. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ijorni.a.

!!61

TABLE MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 124.
SOTOYOME LODGE, N'o. 123.
Healdabara-, Sonoma Cloanty,

4'

Cherokee, Butte County,

Stated Meeting1, 'l'uuday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meeting1, Saturday n~t preceding Full Moon.

OFFICER8s

OFFICERS&

George HWarfteld, Master,
Martin Van Buren Hooten, Sr. Deacon,
Lafayette William Doane, SeniorWarden; George Henry Bntterfteld, Jr. Deacon,
Nathan Henry Cox, Junior Warden,
Edward Sinton Gray, Mar1h.al,
Mathias Raabe, 7Teaaurer,
Wiiiiam Benjamin Whitney, l Stewai·ds,
John Yoong, Secretary,
John Richmond Trnett,
f
Charles Lloyd Kimball, Oh.aplain,
Edward Granville Hall, Tyler.
Pait lllaater11

Alexander Hill Stites,
John Young,
William Henry Barnes,

'

Pa•t Ma.tera1

•

Mathias Raabe,
Martin Van Buren Hooten,
James Thomas McNamara, . Edward Sinton Gray.
MASTER MABONB:

Price, John-J:.
DIED:

Bell, James Shadrick
Fenno, James Edson

Goldstein, Henry

Nye, William Everette- 4.

Oharles Fayette Lott,
Louis Goodday,
Isaac Warren Kitchen,

William James,
Henry Caldwell White,

Andrews, Robert D
Bader, Obarles William
Burt, Aaron
Ohivell, Thomas Henry
Cohn, Levi
·
Oory, Francis Marion
Davis, Joseph Horst
Dolan, Martin John
Edmonds, John
Erdody, Joseph
Evans, John 0
Feqna, George Hale
Grant, Lincoln illysses

Hanson, Andrew Mathias North, Davis Beauregtt.rd
Hartson, Charles Gardiner Parsons, Edward
Hengy, William Sinclair
Patterson, Jacob
Holinb, Frank
Powers, Robert Sutherland
Halford, James Allen
Rowe, James
Hntl:ord, John Newton
Smith, David Walter
Jones, Eliaa Harris
Sovereign, Geo. Whitefield
Jones, William Peter
Spangler, Christie Marshall
Jorgensen, Peter Alex.
Tate, Frank Raymond
Mack, William Edward
Tegrnnde, Hermann
Mellon, William James
Vera, Josepli Noma
Morgan, Daniel Claud
Whitelaw, John Frederick
Nisson, Asmus
Williams, William 8--06.

Richard Henry Jones,
Lester Lewellyn Myers.

MASTER MABONB:

Lorenzini, Domenico
Price, John
Bates, John Leavitt
Mathews, Chae. Wesley, Jr. Raymond, Charles Francis
Bidwell, John
Mathews, Chas. Wesley, Sr. Renilf, Le-,rla Arnold
Board, William
Mathews, John Wesley
Rickman, James Louis
Cake, Evart Pierce
Roemer, Ernest Edward
Coffman, Nelson Bradley Mayo, Joseph
Meyer, Louis
Roaasco, Glovani
Ellis, Leander Griffith
Meyer, Samuel
Seawell, James William
Fitzgerald, Mathew
Miller, George
Shriver, Nathan
Gale, Lester Lod1ick
Somes, James
Gibson, Thomas J elferson Miller, George William
Moreland, William Walter Swisher, James Riley
Gobbi, Barney
Terry, James William
Goddard, Daniel N evade Mothorn, David Henry
Nichols, Jas. Francis Wood Thompson, John Morrow
Hall, Maitland Grant
Norton, Edward Molloy
Van Allen, William
Hardy, Jonathan
Wall, Henry Cheeley
Harrlaon, George Russell Okeen, Hiram
Ottmer, Henry Christian
Walters, Solomon
Ingalls. John 0
Palmer, .Francis Warren
Warner, Alex. La Fayette
Joy, William Henry
Passalacqna, A~drew
Warren, William Porter
King, Jesae
Petray, Ransom Alexander Wilcox, George Paton
Laymance, Ieaac Carlin
Phillipa, Duvall Drake
Young, John Shaw
Legit, Robert Percy
Young, Michael-75.
~ong, ~eorge Waahington Powell, Ransom
RESTORED:

William James, Maater,
Thomas Francis Maigan, Senwr Deaoota,
George Medanich, Senior Warden,
John Blomme, Junior Deacon,
David Herbert Williams, Junior Warden, Levi Woodbury Lee, Marllhal,
Jenkin Morgan, 7Teaeurer,
James Alexander Campbell, t 8teto
Henry Franklin Bader, Secretary,
David Franklin Smith,
f
ardB,
Peter William Jones, Tyler.

RESTORED:

WITHDRAWN;

Rowe, James-1.

North, Eawin Byron-1.

LA FAYETTE LODGE, No. 126.
8eba.atopol, Sonoma Cloanty.

r

Stated Meeting1, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER81

Lonie V. Hardenburg Howell, Maater,
George Wilfred Libby, Senior Deacon,
David Strauss, Senior Warden,
Elmer Frank Miller, Junior Deacon,
Alexander Ragle, Junior Warden,
ThomatJ Garrett Wilton, Marsh.al,
Simon Graham, 7Teaeurer,
Walter Wavard Monroe, t
Joseph Henry Perrine :Morris, Sem·etary, Otis Allen,
f Steward.a,
James Gregson, Oh.aplai.ra,
David Seeley, 7Yler.

32

962

Returns of the SUbordinate LodgeB
P1Ht

[Aug. 1,

MASTER MASONS;

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Williams, Reuben-2.

8mlth, John Kinder
DIED:

Gannon, James P-2.

Sohaertzer, John Adolph
Joos, George
Addicks, John Henry
Jordan, Ernst O.Hermann Schanmlolfel, Wilhelm
Atrolter, Joseph
Schernsteio; Karl
Jordan, Bodolf
Alpers, George..
Schiller, Charles Friedrich
Kahrs, Gerhard
.Atzeroth, Edlef
Schoening, Otto
KlaaBl!eo, Heinrich
Baader, John
Schulte, John'lerhard Wm.
Klatt, Ferdinand
Bahrs, George Henry
Schultze, Gnstav F. Wilhelm
Barkhans. Fred'k William Kleiler, Paul
Schuman, Carl
Knop, Henry
Bauch, Peter George
Sohttssler, Hermann F. A.
Kohler, William
Bauer, John Christian
Schwarz, Karl Anitnst.
Blucher, Georg Heinrich Korbel, Franz
Sonne, Herman Theodor
Krieg, Anton
"Danoheimer, Lonie
Speidel, Adolph Friodrich
Langer, Robert
Dierks, Theodore
Bterofeld, Moritz
Levy,Jnlius
Ebbinghaoseo, Henry
Lnchsinger, Geo. Heinrich . Sternitzky, Robt. Reinhold
Emmrich, Ernst
Struven, John
Ltttgens, John
Fink, Conrad
Strttwing,Johano Hermann
Lux, Frank Aotoin
Fisher, John Henry, Jr.
Sylvester, Henry, Jr.
Foerster,Coostantine E. A. Manrer, Leo
Trantner, Charles
Meinert, Hermann
Frederioks, Joseph
Tt1rk, Christoph
Mentz, Frederick
Fritsch, Emil
Meyer, Angust Friedrich Vogel, Carl
Fueodeliog, Joline
Volkman, Carl Mol'ltz
Mittelstaedt, Eugene
Gall, Balthea G
VooBergen, August H. w.
Mocker, William
<lebers, Eilward Richard
Offerman, Georg Heinrich Vorrath, Aodteas Heinrich
Geognagel, Jacob
Vorrath, Heinrich
Plaa:emaoo, Henry
Glein, Oarlos Franz
Waizman, Max
Qnadt. John
Habenicht, Fritz
Waldeomeler, August
Rapp, John
Hach, Oarl
Wanoeomaoher, Robert
Remensperger, Ulrioh
Bakios, Jaoob
Wassmann, Hermann
Renz, John
Harms, George
Wegener, William Berggren
Richter, William Henry
Heidlorn, Oar! Wilhelm
Rohrbach, Joseph Philip Westphal, Peter
Herold, Rodolph, Jr.
Rosenbanm, Friedrich Hein Wolters, George
Bess, Joeeph
Hildebrandt, Charles Henry Roetemeyer, Wilhelm Jos. Wolters, Heinrich
Zwieg, He1111ann-l18.
Se.dler, Hermann Julius
Janke, Johann Gottlieb

HERMANN LODGE, No. 127.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

San Franclaeo. San Franclaco County.

Roc!e, Christian Bernard-I.

Bohoenwald, George-1.

Stakd Meetinga, firat Mooday in 11ach month.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

OFFICERS t

Martin, A.dam-1.

Peter Heiostadt, 8enfor .Deac.m,
G11atav Carl Beckh, MaBter,
Richard Emil J,onis Monk, &m. Warden, Fritz Hagemann, Jr., Junior .Deacon,
Loois Zeiss, Marrhal,
Richard Sternitzky, Junior Warden,
l StffllJards
Henry B"ellberg,
Gustav Bttrglo, Trea.surer,
'
HeorySeb&Stian Krieg, f
Ludwig Schnmacher, Beo1·etary,
Herman Schoene, Tyler.
Pa•t Ma•ter11

Adolph Theo. Ehrenberg,
Charles Emil Hansen,
Henry Kenitzer,

Ralph de Clairmont,
Carl Emil Robt.a,
Ludwig Bchnmacher,

963

MASTER MASONS :

Charles Burroughs,
Charles Kimball.

Osborn, Alexander
Hayden, Eoooh Wesley
Ray, Barzillai
Hocker, William Ogden
Huntley, Geo. W&Shington Boss, Fernando Elmer
BoBl!, James Wallace
Hnot, Joseph Hancock
Hurlbnt,EdwioTaftM ooroe Boss, Kemp L
Boss, Lossoo
Jewett, George Enoch
Boss, William Danforth
Johnson, Charles
Sanborn, George Newell
Libby, George Henry
Sandmayr, Mathias
Loser, Benjamin ·
Scammon, Charles Melville
Marshall, Henry
Schermer, Emile
Martin, Frank Milton
McGoire, William Ple&Saot Hmlth, Joseph
Solomon, Charles
Miller, Ira
Speller, Charles George
Mnggy, Christian
Watson, Valentine
Oliver, Charles
Winkler, Clayton-66.
Oliver, Williiim Henry

Schmelg, Philip

To the GTand Lodg~ of California.

Jl[aaier• 1

Louis V. Hardenburg Howell,
Thom&S Garrett Wilton,
Wm. Goodman Rickard,
Harry Bullen Morris
Henry Thompson Tuoker,
Allen, George Otis
Baxter; Hamoel Emanuel
Beacon, Thom&S
Btnoer, Daniel
Burroughs, David
Carlson, Peter J.>hn
Oline, John w·esley
Oody, Mathew
Oorbin, George Henry
Cottini, Peter
Cox, William Edward
Coy, Charles Scotti
Deas, William Blamyer
Espey, George Moultrie
Ewing, Lor McDonald
Goldberg, Nathan
Hamilton, John

1896.]

Henry Geilfnss,
Lonie Moller,
John Fisoher.

DIED:

Eggers, George Heinrich

Flecher, Franz Xaver

Lohse, Nichole.s-3,

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

964

[Aug. I,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

965

VISALIA LODGE, No. 128.
Visalia, .Tulare County.

NICOLAUS LODGE, No. 129.

Stated Meetinga, third Saturday in each month.

Wheatland, Yuba County.

OFFICERH1

Stated Meetinga, Friday of or nezt yreceding Full Moon.

Daniel McFe.dzee.n, Maater,
Whee.ton Andrew Gray, Senior Warden,
William Kettner, Junior Warden,
James Edward Denny, TreaBUrer,
William Gaillard Dozier, Jr., Secretary,
- - · - - - - , Oh,aplain,

Ben Moyers Maddox, Senior Deacon,
John Boblitt Johnson, Junior Deacon,
Frank Angustns Thompson, Marshal,
Fielding Alexander Combs, l Stewards,
Milo Adam Calhoun,
f
Freedom Moulton Rice, Tyler.

OFFICER!oi1

Lvnu Morton Justis, Master,
Charles Fitch Grant, Senior Warden,
Herbert Brice Whiting, Jun'ior Warden,
Thomas Hiram Thomas, Treasurer, •
William George Jasper, 86'1T'etary,
David Farris Rodde.n, Ohaplain,

Past Masters:

Elias Jacob,
Robert Chidley Bro~er,
John Tuohy,

Joseph Clarence We.rd,
George Alvia Parker,
William B Wallace,

Edward Harrison Miles,
Daniel MoFe.dzee.n,
John Cornelius Goad.

Past lllaaters1

Campbell Polson Berry,
Lewis Melton,
Jos. Easton Hollingshead, Frank Kirshner,
Simon Wolf,
Jos. Miscal Carrington Jasper,

MASTER MASONS:

Glasscock, Alpha Hayden Patterson, Thos. J eft'erson
Anderson, David Oscar
Bacon, Fielding
Graham, Ed we.rd Mc Done.Id Patton, Myron Houston
Baird, Benje.min Morgan Gnggenbeim, Leon
Pendola, Beneditto
Baker, Edgar E
He.II, Albon Engene
Protbers, Jerome
Beck, William Wilson
Hammond, William He.II Pogue, James Wm. Centre
Berry, Hugh Rier
' Harter, Isaac Monroe
Quinn, Henry
Braverman, Max
Hansch, Christian
Reed, George Viator
Hawkins, R11fus Morgan Rhoe.des, John Livingston
Oallison, Robert Henry
Obatten, Richard
Hirschfeld, Louis
Rockwell, Henry Sheldon
Chat.ten, Thomas
Houston, James
Seligman, Louis
Skaggs, James A
Couzzens, Wm. Je.cqoenay Hunsaker, Allen
Cox, Edward Theodore
Hunsaker, Henry
Smith, Beth
Cranston, Floyd Cole
Jerusalem, Henry
Spear, Jacob Lemmon
Jordan, John Francis
Spier, Joseph
Crowley, Arthur•
Cross, Oscar B
Keeler, Russell
Steuben, Zane
Crowley, Green Berry
Kinkier, Charles Henry
Stoltz, Victor
Stoneman, Finis Ewing
Curtis, William Moses
Levis, Leon
Outler, Leone.rd, Jr,.
Locey, Abram Taylor
Thomas, Walter ~·rauklin
Duckwall, Simon Weaver McDonald, Luke
Weathers, Benj. Franklin
Dungan, James Wilson
McVee.gb, Edward Erastus Weishar, Augustus
Edwards, Duncan M.
Messer, Harry F
Wells, Morgan James
Ellis, William Josiah
Mitchell, Jay E.
Williams, John Wesley
Flournoy, Wm. Venable
Murphy, Charles Henry
Wilson, John W
Fre.nkenao, Max
Nuttall, Hasalom
Wilson, Williard M.
Ji'ndge, Edmond Jones
Overall, Daniel Griffith
Wright, Geo. Washington
-96.
'Fudge, William Barrington Parker, Basil Gaither
FELLOW ORA.FT :

Beales, George Frii.ncis-1 •
.RESTORED:

Herring, George

Skaggs, James A

Wright, George We.sbington-3.

WITHDRAWN;

Callison, John William

Herring, George-2.

Connell, William John (F, o.)-1,

Harry Albert Neimeyer, Senior lJaaoon,
John Purcell, Junior Deacon,
Lewis Melton, Mar1hal,
Augustus Reicbers,
t Steward.I
Jos.Misce.l Carrington Jasper, f
'
James Polk Kesner, Tyler.
James Polk Kesner,
John Bteine'me.n.

MASTER MA.SONS:

Abramson, David
Haile, Henry
Pincus, Emil
Anderson, Frank Willis
Hanson, Ingwer B11pbius
Rhinehart, William Rufus
Rodde.a, Hugh
Anderson, George Leander Haven, Elisha.
AttkiBBon, William Brice
Hicks, James Martin
Samuel, Moses
Attkisson, Albert Alpblus Holman, Joel
Sowell, John Amos
Holland, Crofford
Speidel, Samuel David
Baun, John Frederick
Beak, Herman Hanson
Howlett, John Marion
Stratton, George Wilson
Hulraker, Anthony
Thomas, Louis Evans
Bennett, Lemuel Jones
Berry, Rafus Albert
Hutchinson, Perkins Le.rtte Thomas, William Henry
Landis, ,Tames Frederick
Berry, Rufus Cowen
Uhler, William David
Bevan, Thomas Edward
Landis, John
Viles, Carlton Hoodlet
Brewer, William
MoCurry, Lewis Waters
Waddell, Ohe.rles David
Brown, Ernest Wilmot
MoCnrry, Samuel Bevier
Wilkins, James Onlbertson
Oli~k. Daniel
McFee, William James
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson
Dalbey, Joseph Borybill
Morrison, Hogb
Wilson, William Clinton
Fraser, Daniel
Ostrom, Daniel Augustus Wood, Samuel De.vid-67.
Glazier, Frederick
Oyster, William M
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Hicks, Stephen Dougle.a-1.
t

RESTORED:

WITHDRAWN;

Holland, Crotford-1.

Berry, James McConnell-I.

SUSPENDED FO.B NON-PAYMENT <:JF DUES l

N elmea, George Frederick

Skinner, Archibald

Stoddard, Cyrns-3,

966

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1896.J

967

Past Maetera:

Hugh McCutcheou,

WOODBRIDGE LODGE, No. 181.
Woodbridge, San Joaquin County.

Stated Mutings, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding Fu~l Moon.

Bloogb, William
Bonning, James Henry
Boyden, William Price

Groot, Cornelius I
Merrilee&, John Manson
Helper, Charles Y
Smith, Erastus Powell
Langrehr, Henry Christian Williams, Joseph B-20.

OFFICl!;RS ..

George William Anderson, Malller,
George William Langford, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Lewis Newton, Senior Warden, William Woods Henderson, Jun. Dencon,
Edward Hendryx H1VDph11l,Jun. Wal'(.len, Thomas Robeson Burkett, Marshal,
John Booth Lillie, Treasurer,
Joseph Warren Vick11raon, l Stewards,
Hosea Dnnce.n Alex'derBteen, Secretary, James Henry Sargent,
I
Amos Amaon McClelje.nd, Tyl~r.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Remick, Robert Murray

<loultervtlle, Marlpoaa County.

Samuel Eikenh'e.ry Le.tie.,
John Booth Lillie,
Edward Rees Thompson,
Blakely Robert Woods,
Ere.a to a Nelaon Foote,
Joshua Wiltse,
•
Amoa Amson McClelland, John Bre.ly Oory.
William Wilson Huron,
MASTER MASONS :

Ashley, Frank Henry
Fulcher, William Henry
McNoble, George Francia
Ashley, George Henry
He.rt, Edward Baker
111.illia, Wiiiiam Lindsey
Beckman, Frank William He.stings, Hervey Le Roy :Misener, Norman Sumner
Beckman, Henry
Hickey, John Hord
Newton, Cyrus Brownlee
Beckman, Theodore Renry Holmes, James William
Newton, Frank Crawford
Beckwith, Ohe.rles Marion Hoose, Mercer We.rd
Ogden, Henry Thomas
Blackley, James
Hoosken, George
Parker, Alfred Hoe.rd
Brn111l, Moses
Honsken, George Edwin
Piette, Thomas
Caldwl'll, James Thomas Johnson, William Horton Rntledge,Edwe.rd Gelespe.
Carleton, George Tomes
Johnson, William Ne.than Smith, Charles Edward
Carter, William
Jones, George We.ahington Van Gelder, Morris
Corell, William
Keen, Camden Warren
Williams, William Henry
De Vries, Marion
Kirkland, Robert
Woods, Albert James-63.
Fe.vinger, George
Mcintosh, Edwin Jone.than
Powell, Richard White
Ray, David Thomas

Stated Muting1, Saturday of or neZt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

l:!amoel Benjamin Ferguson, Master,
Edward Andrew Walters, Senior DeacOf&,
Charles Wagner, Senior Warden,
Frank Herbeck, Junior Deacon,
Bally David Le.ndecker, Junior Warden, Rodolph Abraham, Marshal,
Daniel We.goer, Treasurer,
Hiner Hilliard, I
·
John James Quick, Secretary,
Oliver Fisk,
f Ste1Dard8,
·
John Battista Cella, 7Yler.
Past Mastera 1

Carlton Davidson,
Daniel Wagner,

Benjamin Franklin Morris,

Samuel Benjamin Fergoson.

MASTER MASONS :

Bircbland, Charles Adolp
Dower, James
Hosking, Benje.min William

Koenig, Theodore Thomas
Mast, Charles Leisure
Pierce, John Esleck

Rowe, John Searle
Schell, Edwin Herbert
-21.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Broa.n, Joseph

Pe.acoe, Richard He.rvey-2,
ENTERED APPRENTIOES :

Allen, John Joseph

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Hagle, John
Mills, Freeman Benje.min

Taylor, James Terrill-2.

, YOSEMITE LODGE, No. 133.

Paat Mastera 1

John Chatten Thompson,
John Newton Woods,
Benj. Franklin Langford,
Thomas· Robeson Burkett,
James Lawrence Hutson,

Thomas Henry Trezise.
MASTER MASONS :

Davies, Percy

Roberts, William Henry-S.

Ray, Don-6.

VACAVILLE LODGE, No. 134.
SINCERITY LODGE, No, 132.

VacaTllle, Solano County.

Taylorville, PJumlUI County.

Stated Muting1, Friday of or ne:i:t prueding Ji1ull Moon.

Stated Muting1, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Thomas Henry Trezise, Jfruter,
Hugh McCntcheon, Senior Deacon,
Thomas McRorie, Senior Warden,
' William De Witt France, Junior Deao1>n,
Joseph Edward Reqiick, Junior Warden, Frank Krnger, Marshal,
John Wardlow, Treasurer,
William Bennet Morton, l Stf.IDRl'dl,
William Flynn, Secretary,
William Roeokers,
I
James Patterson Borge, Tyler.

OFFICERS I

George Frederick Wooderson, MaBler,
Samuel Ralph MoClay, Senior Deacon
William Henry Prioe, Senior Warden,
Frank Herbert Bock, Junior DeaDOn,'
Thomas Hngh Bnckingham,Jun. Warden, \fins.rd Pemberton Inglish, .MarBhal,
- - - - - - , lretUUrer,
John James Bage.rty,J. SI
da
John Monroe Arnold, Secretary,
William Henry ~<>el, "f e1Dar '
Ingalls Kenny Bock, Ohaplain,
Pardon Cargill, 7Yler.

968

Returns of tile Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

18!16.J

1.o the Grand Lodge . o/ Oalifornia.
.

Paat M111-.ters •

Edward Robinaon Thurber, Ingalla Kenny Bock,
John Monroe Arnold,
Henry Eversole,
Jacob Blom,
Joaeph Abraham Ooller,
Geo. FrederlckWooderso n, Frank Benjamin MoKevitt,
Andrew Vincent Stevenaon,

MASTER MASONS:

William Boyd Parker,
Je88e SOonningham,
James Alvin Webster,
Charles Smith.

Brooke, Thomes J elferson Miller, Richard Buchanan
Owen, Hen;y Taylor
Canavan, Edward
Owen, James Rutherford
Dyke, Ozro David
Owen, Walter James
Long, Elias Oscar
Pearson, Stith Allen
.Martin, David Patten
McCansland, J~mes Andley Perryman, Charles

MASTER MASONS :

Neil, Obarles
Hewitt, Samnel Sumner
Akerly, Ellsworth Alden
Hubert, Joseph Nickerson Neilsen~ Ole '
Atwater, Henry
Petrie, Thomas Lawrence
Jewell, Reuben Watson
Ball, Obarles Henry
Powers, George Adelbert
Johnson, Washington
Blom, Moses
Koppicns, Dndley William Robinson, Jonat'n McNeill
Bock, William Henry
Rogers, James Roe
Koshland, William
Davis, Isaac Francis
Shirley, Hopkins Torner
Dellinger, Ambrose Craig Kowaoda, Thomas
Engstrom,Adolph Laurent'sj..awrence ,William Edward Sponsler, Alanson Chandler
Lindsley, Albert Wheeler Stevenson, Charles Albert
Eversole, James
Stevenson, George Bush
Long, Alexander Reed
Fisher, Edward
Stevenson, George Man pin
Loomis, Charles Tooker
Frame, George
Stitt, James Warren
Loaee, Charles Henry
Frazer, John Robert
Watson, Beary Melville•
Marshall, James
Hates, James Walker
Wells, John Neff'
Merchant, John Baptist
Gates, Thomas Lee
Wilson, Thomas Stanly-67.
Hacke, Frederick Henry Miller, Meredith Raines
Hawkins, George Marshall

Davidson, Loois Napthaly-1.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Reilok, Edward-1,

Peyton, Artimne-1.

. San ll'rancuco, San Franclaco Co-ty.

Stated Meeting11, .first Tuuday in each month.
Oll'FICERS1

Lewis J Nevers, Senior Deacon,
Almond Raleigh Morrow,Malter;
Charles Jellinek, Junior Deacon,
George Haas, 81111ior Warden,
»-obert McFarland Doble, Jun. Warden, William Grant, Marahal,
clll
1ohn Fitzmaurice Kennedy, 7Tea.surer, William Giles Qolnlfn, l St
John Clgord Peterson, f ewa.r '
George Penllngton, Secretary,
Philip Riegelhanpt, Tyler.

Peterson, Lonie Henry-2.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DU.j!:B:

WITHDRAWN:

Van De Venter, Frederick Shaw-1.

Paat Ma.atera 1

DIED:

Morris, wqliam Henry

.James Ross Oarrick,
Henry Olassen,
Thomas Anderson,
William Harvey Edwards, Mark Levinsky,
George Penllngton,
James Washington Reppey,
John Fitzmaurice Kennedy, Charles James King,
Monbray Robert Dnndas, .Alexander Thom,
George Leviston,
George Mairs Perine,
Nathan Orocker,
Joseph Peter Treanor,
James Wright Andel'Son, W<ilker Coleman Graves, David Arnold D' Ancona,
James Thomas Hamilton, Samuel .Zemansky,
Philip D Code,
Martin Jones,
Robert Williamson IJood.
Joseph Oliver Jephson,
Thomas Penllogton,

Chittenden, Henry Hatfield-2.

VALLEY LODGE, No. 135.

MASTER MABONB:

Linde-. San .Joaquin County .

St4tul Muting11, Thuday of or n~t preuding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Edward Freeman Davis. Senior Deacon,
David William Kelver, Mtuter,
Andie Lester Bonham, Junior Deacon,
David Bryson, Senior Warden,
- - - - - - , Mar1hal,
David Trebil Wasley, Junior Warden,
Wayne Thomas, 'lreaaurer,
-.--,
-_
-_
_,fl steward•,
__
_James Wasley, Secretary,
Amstard Early Miner, Tyler.
Paat Maaten 1

Thomas Trebil Wasley,
Nathaniel Sig&on Hafrold,
James Wasley,

David William Keiver,
Haller Coventry Frost,

Rich, Arthur Henry
Rossell, Willlflm Henry
Sheets, William Henry
Torner, William Thomas
Wall, Thomas, Jr.
Wheeler, Thomas-30.

PACIFIC LODGE. No. i36.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Herold , Benedett Tolever

969

Andie Lester Bonham,
John Calhoon Reid.

••

Abraham, Max
Baggett, William Thomas Bloom, Solomon
Adelstein, Samoel
Baldwin, James Waterman Blunt, John Patten
Altshnler, Levi
Bamberger,Sigmnnd Simon Bolander, Lonie Philip
Boone, John Lee
Anderson, John
Banner, Marcos
Booth, Frank Edmond
Andrews, Frank Kellogg
Barker, Alfred
Boyd, Colin McNicoll
Armitage, William Henry Baskerville, Edwin
Bragg, Robert, Jr.
Arnold, Cyrus Mills
Baum, Gustus
Breitzman, Robert
Arnold, Lonie Edgar
Beck, William Arthur
Bremer, William Herman
Arnold, Thomas Cook
Behlow, Charles John
Brodhurst, John Campbell
Allchhelm, Israel Julina
Berg, Alfred
Asher, Alexander Branch Berryman, Henri Burpee Browell, J eremiah
Brown, Andrew
Atkinson, James
Bien, Joseph
Austin, Sampson
Binge,Theo. CbrietophDan'I Broce, William Young
Burley, Dudley
Babbitt, John Henry
Blackman, J Dyatt

33

970 .

'

Returns of tlte Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Jones, Frank Able
Frennd, Philip
Byxbee, John Fletcher
Katz, Manda!
Foller, Andrew Henry
Cameron, John William
Forman·, Henry Matthew Kear, John
Canham, Frederick
Kennedy, Albert Warren
Caeeelmann, Julina Molter Garrett, Jamee Hyland
Kenny, Thomas
Gaold, Jamee Green
Center, John
Kent, Riobard
Christle, James Alexander Getz, Bernard
Kent, Thaddeus Benning /
Getz, Marcus
Clark, James William
Kerr, Earl
Gilberte, Edward
Clark, George Waverley
Kervan, Thoe. Lawrence
Clilford, Jamee Benjamin Gilchrist, John Grant
Ullmore, Angos Aogostns Kincaid, Isaac Philamson
Code, Jamee Arthor
Gimpel, Maurice Christian King, Henry Lewie
Cofer, Elliott Marion
Goetze, Frederick William Knudsen, Philip Julius
Coffin, Lincoln Alverton
Kowalsky, Simon
Goldstein, Simon
Cohen, Jacob
Laskey, Michael Charles
Goldstone, i3amoel
Cohen, Philip
Laver, Aogostue
.Gorle,James
Cohen, Simon
Lengfeld, Abraham Lewie
Grady, Jamee
Cohn, Loafs Meyer
Leonard, Edward Francis
Gray, Henry
Conroy, Eugene Chester
Leverentz, Charles
Green, William
Cooper, William,
Levin, Lonie
Greer, William John
Cope, James Henry
Levinsky, Lonie
Gomp, Solomon
Craig, Lee Darneal
Gonzbnrger, Benj. Mitchell Levy, Jacob
Crowley, Timothy Jay
• Levy, Samoel Wolf
Gonzborger, Emil
Colmerry, William Scott
Lezineky, George
Hallett, George Henry
Carrie, Robert
Liebee, Berman
Hallett, Oliver Gray
Curry, John
Lincoln, Elijah Whiting
Ham, Cbarlee Herbert
Catting, John Tyler
D' Ancona, Alex. Dawson Hansen, Frederick Ladwig Lippitt, Philip
Lippman, George
Harris, Benjamin
Daniel, William Lyon
Livingston, Andrew Wm.
Harrie, Elias
Darling, George Lonie
Lockard, Walt.er Scott
Harris, Marcos
Davidson, George
Locke, Somael
Harris, MaLthew
Delf~, Marcos Alexander
Lockwood, Thomas
Hechhelmer, Leopold
Dentsch, Jacob
Londen, Onerlin
Helbing, Aognst
Dibble, William Stow
Lonie, Benjamin Francis
Henderson, Frank
Dick, Daniel John
Lowell, John Franklin
DIQklneon, Robert Frank Hendy, Samnel Joshua
Dickson, George Edward Hendry, Andrew Murray Lowenthal, Morrie B
Lotz, William Edward
Heweton, Jamee ·
Dinkelspiel, Lazarus
.Macdonald, Malcolm
Hille, Renben Walmarth
Dixon, Frank Albert
Mackenzie, John RoBB
Heine, Herman .
Doble, Abner
MacKinnon, Thomae Alex.
Dowling, Charles Weleeley . Hoffman, Abraham
Madden, Robert Willie
Dragomanovich, Spiro S. G. Hollub, Samuel Simon
Hoghes, William George .Madison, Jamee
Drube, John Gerhard
Magnin, Simson
Humphrey, George
Doon, John
Magolre, Thomas Frank
Hotchine, Charles
Earle, Henry Halford
Makins, Jamee Nicholas
Irvine, Alexander
Eells, Alexander Grimes
Manner, Charles Vogt
Elder, George Washington Jacobson, Charles
Mansbach, Emanuel
James, Jeft'ereon Gilbert
Elder, William James
Jenks, George Washington Manwaring, Charles Wm.
Ellis, Henry Aquilla
English, Leland Garrison Jennings, Charles Brooke Marllave, Edward Cornelle
Marshall, Patrick Slight
.Jennings, Edward
Feldmann, Diedrich
Johnson, Christian Eman'l Maxson, Frank
Finnegan, Matthew
Johnson, Francis Fenelon Mayle, George Dennie
Foorman, Samoel
McClure, William
Johnson, J obn Ilenry
Fraser, Ed win J oeep.b.

1896.]

,

To the, Grand Lotige of UaUfornia. ·

971

Percy, George Washinl!'ton Slmpson,Tbomas Benjamin
McColl, John
Smallbones, Jamee
Pidwell, Cyril Trevoseo
McCorll'Jck, William
Somervell, Wm. Somervell
McCray, Franklin Philander Pierce, Nelson
Speier, Bernard
Piper, Arthur Leroy
McDonald, John ~ogh
Speyer, Walter Morrie
McUoogall, Obas. Campbell Plppey, Robert Norman
St. lllalr,GeorgeWashingi'n
Pomln, George Joachim
McElroy, Robert
Stanton, Andrew Palmer
Posner, Max
MoGeorge, James
Stark, William Alexander
MoGregor,Arcb.Henderson Prindle, !<'rank Minor
Qoalman, Frederick Henry-Stern, Moses Milo
Mcintyre, Jamee
Sterobeim, Samoel
Qoloo, Abram Richard
McJuokin, Hogb King
Rabjohn, Thomas Henry Stevenson, John Jamee .
McKay, John Henry
Stevenson, Thomae
Reid, John
McLea, Arthur
Sullivan, Jeremiah Flore'oe
Reid, Thomas
McLeod, D11niel
SoBSman, Samuel
M<iLerle, Henry Johnston Reiter, Prosper Peter
Sweet, Solomon
Reiter, Victor Mathew
Melin, Charles Gusto!
Mellnish,HerbertStanieland Reynolds, Thomae Barris Tedlie, Jamee Hamilton
·Terry, John Coleman
Richards, Charles West
Melrose, Kenneth
Robbins, Frederick Averill Terry, Joseph Tripp
Michaele, Abraham
Robert.a; Aogustas Henry Thompson, Edward Mealing
Millen, George Barnes
·Thomson, William James
Roberts, Thomas
Moore, Thomas
Moreboose,Chrie.Colomboe Rookwood, Edmond Root Titos, William Henry Frank
Romaine, Nicholas Tbeo're Toelken, Herman
Morehead, Jobo White
Rosenblatt, Artbor Stern Toplltz, Robert r.oole
Morton, Thomas
Troppmann, Oharlea Martin
Rosenfeld, Maurice
Mowbray, RoDert Henry
Trotter, John Stawart
Rosenthal, lllaorice
Muirhead, Thomas
Torpin, Frederick Light
Rose, David Adam
Moller, Constantine
Mundt, Francie Aognstue Rowley, Benjamin Nathan Tuttle, John
Von Werthern, Joseph
Samuele, David
Morray, George Ireland
Wagner, Theodore
Samuele, Jacob
Myers, Jachiel
Saoderbaos, Geo. B'y Oliver Wallace, John William
Nash, William Joseph
Walkington, John Henry
Sanderson, Jamee
Nathan, Bernard
Newbauer, Herma1r Wolf Savage, Wm •.Conningh'm Wankoweki, William
Ward, William Braddon
Schlesinger, Charles
Newbauer, Joseph
Watterson, Geo. Thompson
Schoenberg, Henry '
Nicol, Alexander
Weldenreloh, Michael •
Schutte, John Henry
Nicol, William
Whitten, James
Schwartz, Moses
Nield, John Detlifson
Williams, Daniel A
Noonan, Lawrence Edward Schwartze, Karl Gustav
Williams, John W
Obermeyer, Tons Fr'd'k A. Scott, Albert Woodburn
Wilson, Frederick Green
Searey, John Joseph
O!'ler, Charles
Wilson, Joseph Lewie
Ogilvie, James Robertson Seelig, Simon
Wilson, Marlon Allen
Parker, Charles Hubbard Seeman, William
Young, Arthor Lansing
Sbeideman, Bahr
Parsons, Charles Bird
Sherwood, William Franklin Zielin, Winfield Scott-363.
Pearce, William David
Penballow, DeBlois Pearce Simon, Joseph
FELLOW CRAFTS:
0

Co ok, John Graham
Craig, David Calder

Edlin, Juda
RESTORED:

Redding, Winfield Soott-1.

.

Ficke, Charles Henry-'.

972

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

WITHDRAWN:

lJoole, George
Briggs, Arthur Robert

Qnalman, John

Redding, WioOeld Scott-4.

t!USPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Forrest, William Drummond-1.
DIED:

Donthitt, David William
Dennison, Ami Prince

Hayes, George Walfred
Latson, Frank Palmer

J

Llewellyn, Llewellyn Jam!!B
Wagner, Jacob-6.

CROCKETT LODGE, .No. 139.
San ll'ranolllClO, San Franohoo' County,

Stated Mutinga, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Gottlob Chae. Groezioger, Sen. J)eacon,
Thomae Rowlands, Ma&er,
John Gonder North, Junior .Deacon,
Charles Cellariue, Senior Warden,
Peter Harder, Marshal,
Jnline Reimer, Junior Warden,
Harry Fitz William Chaae, l Steward•,
Leonard B Lippert, 7Teaturer,
l
Hugh John Lloyd,
Henry Fortride, Searetary,
John Edward Hnnt, TJ/Zer.
Paat lllaatera 1

Carsten Hildebrandt,
William Reid Low,

Robert Charles Meyers,
J oho Christian Gerhard Bruse,

Heber Notter Tilden,
Thomae Rowlands.

MASTER MASONS :

Dunn, James Henry
Christiansen, Jacob
Anderson, George
Clprlco, Edmund Samuel Edwards, William T.
Arpe, Otto 0.
Eppertshaueeo, lgnatz
Aachen, Christian Henry Clute, Alva Baker
Compo, Geo. La Fayette Evans, David John
Baker, Robert Thomae
Feltlermann, John Dietrich
Conroy, George Stephen
Barker, Enoch Will!am'
Flathmaon, Claus
Becker, Adolph Oornellus Ooegrove, John
Glindemaon, Wm. Marena
Cosgrove, John Francis
Bengtson, Sven
Grant, John
Berendee, Joseph Charles Oowio, Stephen
Green, John Wesley
Cox, Thomas Francie
Bigley, William Henry
Craigen, Charles Stewart Hagerop,C. S. 0. Aggerborg
Bitzer, Jerome E
Hamilton, Frank Thoml\8
Oreeee, Frank H!lzen
Blnmenthal, Albert
Hansen, Felix A. D.
Bowdich, Richard William Orofte,John JameH
Dallamore, Geor1re Charles Hatch, Richard
Bromao, Albert
Heins, Adolph Freldrloh
Bnrgel!ff, Joseph Edward Dennie, Johll Knowles
Higgs, John
·Burnham, George .Ellsworth Dheillg, Alfred John
Hinck, Henry John
Dippel, Henry
Oahen, Solomon
Douglas, Colin Alexander Hof'mano, Elias
Carroll, William Henry
Hosking, John
Chambers, ~orge William Drlseoll;FraA Henry

1896.]

To the G~and ~e of Oa),if~.

Hughes, J oho Hugh
Isaac, David
Jacobsen, Niels
Johnson, Frederick
Karn, Gustav ·
Kelly, Robert Gabriel
Kneip, Frederich Karl
Knop, Elfert
Knust, Henry
Krosoher, Hugo Juline
Krng, Fritz
Lambert, William Patrick
Laughton, James
Llewellyn, Reese
Lind, John Christian
Lord, George William
J,ood, Frederick
Land, John August
Mann, Brnno Max
Marke, Joseph Michael
Martin, Alfred
Mo()aoo, Richard
McCracken, Arthur
McKarley, Edward
McLaughlin, Armour

M'cLonghlin, Alexander
McMurry, Valentine Cook
Mehrtens, Richard
Merrill, Charles Carroll
Metzler, Hermann
Meyer, Charle•
Meyer, Jnlius
Muffe, Frederick Peter
Nichole, Thomae Henry
Nicolaysen, Frank N.
Oldfield, Charles
Parker, Thomae Beede
Patterson, John Charles
Perle, Johan Frederick
Peters, John
Price, Evan Jamee
Purvis, Jobn Henry
Reuben, Bernhard
Schammel, Henry
Schlesinger, Oharlea
Schottler, Herman
Sohottler, Rudolph
Schultze, Louie
Schwarz, Gnstav

973

Schweitzer, Jacob
8ege880r, John Ulrioh
Shannon, Peter
Soomao, John Joachim T.
Spoerl, Harens P .Johan Ang.
Staude, Henry August
Stotz, Jacob
Thierbacb, Lonie Michael
Thomae, Bertrand McNnlty
Thornley, William Henry
Tobin, David Joseph
Vetter, Philipp
Vock, Simon
Waldron, John Terry
Ward, Patrick Frank
Watson, Ambrose Alex.
Webber, Charles
Weitner, Anton
Wieland, Obarlee
Witheta, Ralph
Wolters, John Dietrich
Yoong, Willian1 Ralph
Yonng, Royal Burr
Zwick, CbarlM Antone-1'3.

FELLOW OBAFTS:

Morken, Albert Henry-2.

Bordewig, George

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Caldwell, Robert
Jones, Frederick Frances

Morrie, George Waahington

...

RESTORED:

W~ller, Leupold Philipp

-"·

.

~neip, Friedrich Karl-2.

Dunn, James Henry

WITHDRAw.N :

St. Germain, Henry Napol41on-l.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Oox, Richard
Johnston, Harry James

Landers, John
Nelson, Oharlea John

Harrie, George David
Hard, Jethro Hansen

Johnson, Magnus
Sartori, Joseph

Pattison, George-5.

DIED:

.

Simpson, James-5.

974

Returns of the Sub<>rdinate L<><lges

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifo:nia.

975

'

CURTIS LODGE, No. 140.

GRAFTON LODGE, No. 141.
Graf'ton., Yolo Coant.;y,

Cloverdale, Sonoma County.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or nezt auccuding FuU Moon.

Stated Meetings, Saturday· ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER!!J1

George Baker Baer, Senior .Deaoon,
Charles Emile Humbert, Meuler,
Henry Frederick Domine, Juni.or Deacon,
Luigi Vaeconi, Senior Warden,
William Thomas Brosh, Marshal,
Goilio Allegrini, Junior Ward8n,
Angast Frank Domine, l Stewards
.James Abram Kleiser, Treasurer,
'
!
Fred W Brnsb,
Daniel Morgan Wambold, Secretary,
John Goetzelman, Tyler.
Paat Ma•tera t

Charles Henry Cooley,
Daniel Morgan Wambold,

George Baker Baer.

James Abram Kleieer,
John Goetzelman,

i

..••, .M•aterat

John Welle Snowball,
leaac Jelfereon Ely,
Peter Goettsch,

Oharies Grnnlg,
Barkley Gilbert Peart,

George Olarke Peart,
Rob't Scott HenleyLeatheu.

MASTER MASONS :

MASTER MASONS :

Hampson, Henry Abie!
Allman, Joseph Peter
Hulme, Jamee
Appleton, Wellington
Armstrong, Jae. Boydston Klelser, George William
·
Arreghi; Galtaoo
Lamb, Francis Marion
Larrison, Samuel
naer, Reuben Edward
·Marinkovioh, Antone
Caldwell, George Osoar
Markell, Richard Solomon
Davis, Barton Jackson
Dixon, Eugene Flentoher Perazzo, Jo@eph
•
Pinechower, Simon
Field, John
Reed, John
Frazier, William

OFFICERS:

Isaac Jefferson Ely, Senior .Deaoon,
Lewis Cass Johnson, Ma.1/1,er,
Peter Vrooman Veeder, Junior DtJaOOn, ·
Levi Brandon Adame, Slm(or Warden,
Barclay Gilbert Peart, Marth.al,
Peter Goettsch, Junior Warden,
Henry McBride Kier
John Abner Leathers, Treasurer,
Stewards
'
.
George Olarke.Peari, Seoretary,
'
George Washmgton Hoffman,
Robert Scott Henley Leathers, Tyler.

Ra&ell, George Clifford
Shelford, Peter Landis
Slavich, John Andrea
Smith, Jehiel
Thomae, Richard Henry
Ward, Jamee Abraham
Wilson, Thomas Beggs
Williams, Oliver Crayton
Wolford, Lars Hogo~l.

Grnnig, Lewis Herman
Bell, William 8
Snowball, Henry Havelack
Bostwick, William Henry Lewis, George Bedford
Thompson, Reoj. Franklin
Copp, Wm.Henry Harrison McDonald,George Franklin Winne, William Henry-24.,
N eiil, John
Crane, Donald
RESTORED:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Lewie, George Bedford-I.

Pearce, Byron-L

FELLOW ORA.FT:

FR~NKLIN

Gillespie, William Edward-I.

LODGE, No. 143.

<Joar&land, Sacramento <Jounty.
ENTERED APPRENTIOE8:

Meech!, Conetantlne-2.

Abshier, Jamee Henry

OFFICERS1

RESTORED:

Davis, Barton Jackson
WITHDRAWN:

Woltord, Lare Hugo

Wormer, Mathew-3.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES :

Scott, Sylvester-I.

Wormer, Mathew-1.

Stated Meaings, Saturday of or next preceding J!ull Moon.

DIED:

Thomae- Webster Deane, Senior .DeaOoA,
William James Smith, Mall'8r,
Howard Uouglas Kercheval, Sen. Ward. , Joseph Henry Hyde, Junior DBCJCOfl,
George Plaoe Runyon, Junior Warden, Oharlee Edwin Hollister, Marllhal,
Alfred Thomas Jas. Reyooids, l ~ di
Solomon Runyon, 7haaurer,
r '
!
William Alex. Johnston,
Peter B Green,4i!lecretary,
George McCnllogb, Tyler.
Pa at Mastera 1

Mee.Id, Jacob Gregg-1.
Hans Bernard Wm. Jag~n,
Solomon Runyon,
Jens Romeo Olsen,
Wm. Johnston, P. G. M.

"

Harrison Span Ivey,
Henry. Tyler Hoggins,
Peter B Green,
John Orotton,

Alfred Thos. Jae. Reynolds,
William Alex. Johnston,
Charles Edwin Hollister.

976

1teturn8 of the Subordinate L<xlges

[Aug. I,

MASTER MASONS;

Arrasmith, Vernon
Barnhlsel, Chas. Franklin
Billops, Lewis Cass
Cornish, George Franklin
Dano, Ephraim
Green, Ulmer
Hanson, Charles Erasmns
Hebb, Henry
Hlosdell, Seymour Sidney
Hollister, Dwight

Honstoo, Joseph Warren
Isham, Henry Franklin
Isham, Mnrray Leo
King, Azariah J udeon
Krn11, Ane Ayelts
Lufkin, Harry Tilleston
McCullongh, Alexander A
Osborn, David Horace
Pool, Francie Marion

Pnrington, Clarence W.
Radjesky, Louis David
Scribner, Geo. Washington
Smith, Hart Fellows ~
Stephenson, Joh& Nicholas
Stevenson. Oscar
Thisby, George
Vance, Hugh
Woodln, Arnold-'6.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Barry, William Henry

Bunnell, Charles Earnest-II.
DIED:

Oathers, James

Winter, Johan Wilhelm-2.

ORIENTAL LODGE, No. 144.
l!lan FranclllClO, San Francheo Coaoty.

Stated Muting1, fir1t 7'ueaday in l!ach n&onth.
OFFICERS1

Frank Bacon· Ladd, Mallter,
Thomae Roeebrngh Knox, Senior Deacon,
Edward Bentley Ohnrch, Senwr Warden, Matthew John Lindsay, Junior Deacon,
William Rheinhard Jost, Junior Warden, James Hargraves Wallace, Marehal,
George Howard Thompson, 7reasurw, Stuart Coventry Thomson, l Stewarda
Adolphoe Skinner Hubbard, Secretary, Robert Head Morrow,
I
'
George Edward Walk, 011.aplain,
William Freybnrg Flick (of Occidental J,odge, No. 22,) T,vler.
P . .t Maater• •

John Bell;
Ely Israel Hutchinson,
Charles Bone,
Milton Hille Myrick,
Ferdinand Westdahl,
Thomas Kyle,
William Friend Dorrance,
William Moody Webster,
Barlow Dyer,
Cornelius Preston Robinson, Robert Hodge, .
Walter Scoti Brown,
David Charles Smith,
.Reoben Hedley Lloyd,
John Hatfield Gray,
Edgar Frank Preeton,
Edw11.rd Charles Londqniet, Timothy Joseph Orowley,
George Howard Thompson, John Tonningeen,
Matthew Thomas Wilson.
Edwin White Newhall,
Edward Pleasant Cole,

1896.]

To the Grand Loclge. of California.

Brown, Grafton Tyler
11.e, John George
Read, Henry Lawrence
Campbell, Walter <Jhannoey Jackson, Alden W
Roach, Elmer Dnocao
Castle, Stephen
Johnson, ROger
Rosie, Walter
Chapman, William Henry Joeeelyo, Oharlee
Scherr, John Frederick
Chemlnant, Alexis Sylvain Jost, Oharlee, Sr.
Schneider, Edward William
Chipperlleld, Alfred Edwd. Jost, Oharlee, Jr.
Scott, Ebenezer
Clark, Benjamin
Jost, George Willie
Seeley, John Whitney
.Cofran, John Wm. Gunnison Jost, Joseph
Selfridge, Edward Ang., Jr.
Oolby, Albert Edward
Kip, Jamee
Sennett, Jamee
Crittenden, Chas. Seymonr Labatt, Charles Bagot
Seyler, Oharlee, Jr,
Orooker, Calvin Harlow
Lang, Albert George
Shattnck, Charles Cortie
Orooke, George Bates
Lowell, Nathan Reuben
Shattuck, 'David Dustin
Cubery, William McBnrney Mathews, Henry Edward Siebe, George Henry
Cotten, Edward Logan
McAfee, William A'.dam
Sloan, Jamee Ralph
Davies, Llewellyn
McClnekey, George
Sloan, John
DrlMeld, Vero Carns
.M:oOutcheo, Edw. Johnson Smith, Edwin Broce
Eagleson, John Geddes
McLean, Joseph Rupert
Smith, George Jnliao
Ell~e, Henry O~omweU
Merry, William Lawrence Smith, Harry Bnrt, Jr.
Elhs, Henry Hiram
Metzner, Oharlee Francis Smith, Henry J~Jiao
~pey, William Fletcher Milestone, William Hebden Smith, Henry Sidney
Fitzhugh, Wm. McPherson Mitchell, Albert Jerome
Smith, Jamee Oolemao
Foster, Arthur William
Montagne, Wilford Weed Smith, Lewie Warren
Foster, Samuel
Moore, William Payne
Spreckels, Claus Angust
Giberson, Nelson Schofield M.orll'ew, Thomae
Stackpole, William Henry
Godley, Montgomery
Morgan, Frederick Charles Steele, Daniel Locas
Gordon, Jamee Edward
Morrow, Wllllam W
Stoddart, Angnstoe Wynne
Grant, Tbos. Chamberlain Murray, Thomae Joseph
Story, Obarles Robinson
Graoerholz, Henry John
Murphy, Samuel Green · Swan, Benjamin Ralph
Gree~wood, Monroe
Nelson, Rasmus
Teschemacher,Henry Fred.
Gunn1s.oo, Andrew Joseph Newhall, Henry Gregory Thompson, David
Habenmht,George Nicholas Newhall, William Mayo
Thornton, Samuel Kennedy
Ham'.'1ond, John Ha~es
Nicholle, Thomae Henry
Titcomb, John Henry
Hard.1e, Fra~k. Diedrich
NorcroBB, Daniel
Tnrkington,Rich'deon Robt.
Hamson, Wiiham Greer
Parson, Edward ·
Veen Frank Joseph
Hartshorne, Benj. Mlntoro Partridge, Ed we.rd Briggs Walbank, Charles William
Hathaway,Edw'd Valentine Partridge, John
Walrath, Anstio
Henriksen, BernhardtEdw. Peel, Jonathan Morft'ew
Warner, Obas. Hutchinson
Heoer, Wi~liam Henry
Pierce, Frederick Wilmer Watkins, Alonzo Aognstue
Hobro, William Dovey
Plnketone, Arthor John
Whitwell, Wm. Scollay, Jr.
Holt, John Henry
Pitchford, John Benjamin Wilkinson Crayton Winsor
Hooper, William Burchell Pope, Overton Charles
Wise, Job~ Henry
Hopkins, Timothy
Porter, Thomas Alexander Wood, Abraham
Hooter, John Val11ey
Putnam, Charles Benjamin Wright, William Chandler
Hotchin~oo, John Jennings Rail, Eugene Benton
Yoong, Thomas
Hyde, Richard Elting
Ralsto11., William Ohapmao Yonnger,WilliamJohn-18 3.
FELLOW CRAFT;

JUSTER MASONS;

Angoe, Jamee Stewart
Bousfleld, Frederick Henry Branch, Royal David
Baker, George We.ahiogton Bowes, Edward Ohipme.o Breon, Pe.al
Baldwin, Alfred Walton
Boyd, David Wilson
Bridges, Francis Ee.etm1m
Barry, Edward
Boyes, James
Brisco, William Mounsey.
Baeeett, Charles Follen
Boyes, Robert
Brooke, George William

977

Newhall, Walter Scott-1.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Beveridge, Horatio
Fletcher, William Melvin

34

•

Spreckele, John Diedrich

Tomklneon, James4.

978

[Aug. 1,

Retums of the Subordinate Lodges

1896.l

To the (hand hodg~ of Oalijornia.

979

RESTORED:

Raymond, William Perley-1.

ABELL LODGE, No. 146.

WITHDRAWN:

Bush, David
Loring, William Henry

Raymond, William Perley
Redding, Joseph Deighon

Rixford, Golian Pickering
-6.

Kleinolaos, Andrew

Wilson, Charles Edward-3.

DIED:

Kitchen, George Albert-2.

Fargo, Jerome Bonaparte

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nea:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Green, Adam Treadwell

Ukiah, Mendocino County,

George Washington Stoot, Master,
Francis Marion Mason, Senior Warden,
Fred Olarke Handy, Junior Warden,

William Ross Elliot, Senior Deacon,
John Walter Eversole,' Junior Deaoon,
Lee L Harbert, Marsh.al,
B~m~el Whee~er, 7re~rer,
H.a~ry Morris,
l steroardlJ,
Wiiham Watkms Counmgham, Secretary, Wilham Wilson Porterfield, f
Norton Wagenseller, Oh.aplain,
Oliver Hazard Perry Brown, 'l'yl.er.
Past Masters 1

Edward Warren King,
Hale McOowen,
John Henry Barker,
Thomas Langley Oarothers, William Heory Chessall, William Truman Kirkwood,
Thomas Benjamin Bond,
Carroll Henry Whitten,
Joseph Albertson,
George Mccowen,
Washington Irving Baily, Neil Anker,
Wm. Watkins Cunningham, William Ross Elliot,
Thomas Langley Bar~es,
John Henry Seawell,
Lyman Wilbert Babcock, James Milton Mannon.
Archibald Yell,
Charles Cunningham,

VITRUVIUS LODGE, No. 145.
Bloomfield. Sonoma County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nea:t preuding Full Moo11.
.

OFFICERS:

James Hall Jenkins, Master,
John Oonrad Stomp, Senior Warden,
John Robertson, Junior Warden,
Valencoort Stillwell, 7Teaaurer,
Harrison Melvin Le Baron, Secretary,
Edward Oarter Hinshaw, Ohaplain,

John David Hinshaw, Senior Deaco'l,
- - - - - - , Junior Deacot'I,
Broce Travis Cockrill, Marsh.al,
l Stewards,
John Cook,
Hans Gonldager, f
William Henry Herbert, 'l'yler.

Past Masters :

Theodore Guevara Cockrill,
John Balton Oliver,

John David Hinshaw,

Harrison Melvin Le Baron.

MASTER MASONS:

Appleton, John
Caughey, William
Church, Samuel Howard
Oopergnio, Virgil
Crose, John M
Gaver, Andrew P
Graves, Hiram Auglli'tos

Hakes, Dorr
Hall, William Parker
Hariey," Frank
Hinshaw, James Nye
Holl, Philo
Jones, Carroll
Kowalsky, Henry Isaac

Laufenberg, Michael
Le Febore, O. Maximillian
Parker, Alva
Reese, Sanborn Marion
Sartori, Ignazio
oteele, David
Williams,Charles Celey-84..

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Moore, Thomas-I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

DIBD:

Ephraim, Solomon-I.

Knapp, General Washington-I.

•

MASTER MASONS :

Abraham, Louis
· Henderson, Benjamin
Montague, Lemuel Davis
Moore, William Neet
Bartle.tt, Nathan
Hendrix, Jay Ward
Henry, John Rice
Beohtol, Albert George
Mulcahy, David
Beasore, Daniel Potter
Hensley, Henry Livingstone Newfield, Marcus
Beladean, Lonis
Higgins, Oharles P
Orr, James Henry
Paxton, Samuel Dihel
Benton, James Brown
Hirsch, .Benoit Samuel
Berryhill, Joseph Tanner Hirsch, Manrice
Pickle, Geo. Washington
Boulon, Panl
Hoag, Leslie
Proudfoot, William
Bradley, George Felix
Hofman, Charles
Rawles, Thomas Edward
Brower, John Daniel, Jr. Howard, William Harper Reed, John Smith
Bryant, John Wallace
Hoggins, Eri
Reedy, Lawrence JoReph
Cerf, Aaron
Hughes, James Harris
Rhodes, George Thompson
Charlton, Thomas
Hunter, William Talbot
Rice, Sam Houston
Cleveland, William Jasper Huntley, William
Rosenberg, Samuel Louis
Compton, Thomas Jelferson Isbell, William
Saunders, John Herbert
Cook, James Clinton
Kilbourne, William Vincent Schafer, John Henry
Bingley, George Henry
Dick, Andrew
Lance, Goodman Harry
Dillingham, William Keith Layton, Frank Borton
Smart, George Arthur
Duncan, Jacob
Leason, Thomas
Smith, Howard ·B
Dunsing, Frederick
Levy, Morris Frank
Snow, John
Markle, Robert Broce
Standley, Jeremiah M
Eastman, Henry Lee
Fairbanks, Mandal Whipple Marks, Seymour
Sturtevant, James Hughes
Mathews, Chas. Williamson Tanner, Dennis
Foree, William Heory
Gannett, Joseph
Mathews, James Robert
Taylor, John
Gibson, Andrew Jackson Mathewe,BtonewallJaoksonThomas, Andrew Jackson
McCllntock, William
Todd, John Franklin
Gloyd, Daniel Jerome
Gowell, Charles Alfred
MoGarvey, Robert
Walton, Benson
Hagans, William Anderson Mc9Kinley, David Shepherd Weslar, George
Mitchell, Hiram Heaton
Zimmerman, Wm. Tell-118.
Hatoh, Hiram Treat
Held, William Daniel Louis

980

Returns of the SWJ<yrdinate Lorigea

[Aug. I,

FELLOW CRAFT:

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Foster, Jacob Leonard-I.

Shelton, William-I.
WITHDRAWN 1

Jlrown, Henry Nathan

. 1896.]

To the Grand Lorige of Ooliforn,ia.

981

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Armstrong, Leon Devas

Davis, Harrison

\

Foster, Jesse Valentlne-2.

Dinsmore, Harrold Adam-8.

WITHDRAWN:

Anderson, Colon

Fiegenbaom, Benedict

Perry, Peter Pierce-8.

SUSPENDED FOR NON..,PAYMENT OF DUES :

Case, Horace Smith
Hubbard, Edward Bnokley

Sohell, Hiram Dennis

Simonds, Frederick Bela-4.

EEL RIVER LODGE, No, 147.
BOhner:..iue, B11111boldt County,

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding JiUll Moon.'

LASSEN LODGE, No. 149.

OFFICERS1

William Dinsmore, Senior Deacon,
Brice H"McNeil, Master,
Harry Kingston F. Hansell, Jun. J)eaoo11,
Frank Wright Oliver, Senior Warden,
Frank William Luther, Junior Ward8n, Alexander Grant Connick, .Marshal,
M.ichael Nichol.ae Weber, TreaBUrer, · George Edwin Stewart,} Stewards
'
Samuel Ballentine,
William Henry Bryan, Secretary,
Oliver Kenard Nason, :zy1er.
Paet Master• 1

John Walter Ryan,
Henry Sinclair Delamer.

Charles Austin Ea,tman,
Edwin Samnel Phillips,

William Henry Bryan,
William Dinsmore,

Anderson, Martin
Becker, Charles
Beckwith, Frank Walter
Brewer, Charles Henry
Callihan, Robert
Clyde, Leslie Yoong
Corning, Smith Peabody
Ooosins, Sterling Green
Crabtree, Frank
Dale, Benton
Dale, Jerry
Dale, John·.
Davis, Henry De Lasaox
Dobbyn, William Butler
Feigenbaum, Joseph
Felt, Theodore Dwight
FoBB, James Calvin
·Frost, Ohal'les Baker
Fulton, Warren

Medcalf,Jno,Ed .Hardiman
Orosen, Ebbe
Miller, John
Hansell, Amos, Jr.
Hanson, Daniel Webster Milligan, Thomas
Morrison, Sanford Benton
Hill, Neil
Newell, Daniel Sheldon
Hiller, George
Hiller, Philip Alexander Perrott, Mathew
Perrotl, Walter Louis
Hindley, George
Price, Benjamin A.lien
Ho'1ge, Frank
Rowley, Charles A. E.
Hoook, Peter
Howard, James Bloxom Rowley, James William
Smith, James Lumbert
Holl, Joseph
Stone, George Wells
James, Samuel Oliver
Johnson, Abrah·am Lincoln Stobbs, Moses Ramsey
Swanger, Samuel Fred
Kelley, Thomas Lamb
Sweasey, Thomas William
Kinman, Carlin
Tuttle, Frederick Ackerman
Lamb, Alexander Abel
Underwoud, George
Lamb, Winfield Scott
Maxwell, Jae. Washington Van Sickle, Thoma•
Weber, Martin-72.
McCord, James Clinton

Sa•anvllle, LaHen County.

$tated Meetinga,·Satu rday of or mzt succeeding F~ll Moon.
OFFICERS1

Julien Eugene Pardee, Senior J)eaoon,
Oharles Edward Emerson, Master,
William Henry Hall, Junior J)eaCOfl,
John Corvill Davis, Senior Warden,
William Brockman, Marshal,
John Cahlan, Junior Warden,
John Preston Garrett
Joles Alexander, '.lrea.urer,
• Sf.ewards '
. Hines,
Fredenok
J ames Branham, Seoretary,
John Hansen Marker, 7Yler.

f

MASTER MASONS :

FELLOW CRAFTS : •

Leach, Fred Arthur

•

Wood, John William-2.

·

Paat Maatera 1

James Branham,
Wright Patrick Hall,

Jerome Aogostos Oilman,
Zetas Newell Spaulding,

Arnold, Alexander Thrall
Asher, Morris
Baugham, EbAr Gaston
Bangham, Frank Henry
Bennett, Herbert Warren
Beremsn, Henry
Blake, James Carran
Cramer, Charles
Ora.mer. Daniel
bavis, William Smith
Easton, George Breeding
Emerson, Charles Thomas
Fox, Albert Adolphus
Oonmaz, Philip Jacob

Hall, William Henry
Harrie,• Charles
Hoseelkns, John Wesley
Hurlbut, Perin Delos
Hy~r. David Campbell
Knoch, David
Knoch , Isaac
Knudson . L!Jwis
Longanecker, Chas. Edw.
Masten, John T
Masten, William Thomas
Mcllroy, John James
McKinsey, NoblASamnel
Meylert, Howard William

William Brockman,
Julien Eugene Pardee.

MASTER MASONS:

Minckler, William David
Otto, Fred Anthony
Schmidt, Marcos Joseph
Shinn, Robert Lee
Shumway, Benjamin E.
Snyder, Henry
Spaulding, John Bridges
Stiles, Lyman Colline
Thiba.nlt, Lonie
Thomas, Frank
Van Norden, Thomas Abell
Wheeler, Daniel Carl
Zimmerman, John William
-611.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Van Loan, Elmore-1.

•

982

Returns of the Sul>ordinate LO<J,ges

[Aug. 1

1896.)

To the Grand, Lodge of Oalifornia.

983

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Stranss, Jacqnes-2.

Folsom, Melville Ormand

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Johnston, Robert
Leonard, Jewette Gibbs
Miller, Andrew

Bowman, Edwin David
Dodge, Edmond Robert
Hall, Oharles Edward

Smith, Louis Sprigg
Williams, Eugene Albert-8.

PALMYRA LODGE, No. 151.
Placerville, El Dorado County.

Stated Meetinga, aecond. Thuraday in each month.

DIED:

J,ockwood, John Renshaw

OFFICERSt

Talbot, Enoch Stanwood-2.

MOLINO LODGE, No. 150.

John Pearson, Malter,
Stephen Hester Rantz, SeniM Deaoon,
Charles Albert Swisler, Senior Warden, Joseph Fulton :McKee, Junior Deacon,
Daniel George Oarr, Junior Warden,
George Hnatington Burnham, .Marshal,
John William Dench, 7reasurer,
di
l st
Wilson Olate Smith,,
Shelley Inch, Secretary,
William James Richards, f ewar •
Oliver Vinton Morris, 2Vler.
Past Ma•tera t

Tehama, Tehama County.

Stated J,feetings, Saturday of or next prewling Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Elias Delaven Gardner, Senif..r Deacon,
Henry Weymann, Master,
Thomas Franklin Howell, Junior Deacon,
Albert Oliver Peden, Senior Warden,
·
Robert Monroe Woods, Junior Warden, John Simpson, Marshal,
l sle'Ulard•,
Joseph Chamberlain,
Louis Abraham Gyle, '.frea81.lrer,
Henry Walker McDaniel, f
_George Oharles Simpson, Secretary,
Andrew Simpson, Tyler.
Paat Maaters •

Elias Delaven Gardner.

John Simpson,
Raadolph Hnrlbnt,

Robert Hurd Blossom,
Alvah Peterson,

MASTER MASONS :

Aitken, Andrew Boyd
Aitken, John Simpson
Aitken, Robert Balentine
Anger, William Frederick
Bogard, Andrew Jackson
Brattoa, John Michael
Britt, George Leroy
Olegg, Robert
Ehrlich, John
Finnell, Simpson
Flynn, James Charles
GPmmill, John Blaine

Mttller, John Baptist
Griggs, Sidney Allen
Peters, Edward Thompson
Gyle, Joseph Charles
RatolitJe, Osmond
Hobson, Jesse Mason
Houseman, John Samuel Schrorer, Frederick
Houseman,Rob't Porterfield Smith, Andrew
Johnson, Mathew neotor Stanley, Edward Charles
Stanhes, Charles
Lane, James Henry
Stoat, George Homer
Macken, Lewis
Thompson, Joseph Monroe
Meline. John Joseph
Vestal, Francis Asberry
Miller, William Wallace
Montgomery, Wm. Thomas Wiley, David Elbridge-49.
Morrissey, Thomas Francis

FELLOW CRAFT: .

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Solomon Alexander Long, David Wheeler Macomber,
George Washington McKee, Seth Loveless,
Shelley Inch,
Thomas Fraser,
Geo. Huntington Barnham,
Oliver Vinton Morris,
MASTER MA.SONS:

Alden, Samuel Jemmison Ewert, Emil
Miller, Walter Elmer
Fox, Albert Sherman
Aldereon, Richard, Jr.
Morey, Hoary Sylvester
Gardella, Andrea
Allen, John Page
Murray, Benjamin Franklin ·
Gear, Alfred Henry
Baam, Ralph Waldemar
Papina, Peter
Gruben, Bernard
Bell, William Johnson
Piaggl, Eogene
Hardie, Thomae Oswald
Blair, John
Piercy, Arthur Thomas
Hogan, Phillip' Barringer Reed, John Irwin
Blair, Robert
Hume, James Banyan
Blakely, Alborn James
Roller!, George Charles
Ingham, George Henry
Brooks, Adam
Rowlands, Richard
.Jewell, Godfrey
Oain, Lemael Barnett
Schrack, George Alonzo
Jewett, James Richardson Sheldon, Henry Bradley
Campini, Vincent James
Kohlert, John
Carpenter, Prentiss
Stephens, Jack son Cowlin
Larned, Wellington
Carr, Joseph Gorham
Theisen, John
La Rae, Joha Samael
Calio, Carlo Gaiseppe
Van Voorhies, Ralph Josiah
Little, Hiram
Olark, Tb.omas
Varozza, Marco
Markham, Charles Edwin Walling, John Thomas
Cope, Benjamin Martin
Calbert.son,And'w Thomp'n Martin, Frederick Oonrier Waters, John Nichols
Martin, Samuel
Day, John Martin
Watt, Peter
Maver Michael
Day, Robert Newton
Weatherwax, Charles Henry
McLa~ghlin, Jae. Michael Witmer, Elam Washington
De Benardi, James
Meehan, Marcellus Quintin Zerga, Stefano-&!.
Evins, Jehu
' WITHDRAWN:·

Lee, Willi'em--1.

Davis, Frank-I.

RESTORED:

Tyler, Jonathan. Cooper

Ve~tal, Francis Asberry-2;

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

WITHDRAWN:

De Pay, Ansen A.ngastns-1.

Crumrine, Benton Vandegraft-1.
DIED:

Tyler, Jonathan Cooper-I.

John Dodd Skinner,
William Napp Maffiey,
James Peter Kyser,
John Pearson.

Eaton, John William

Heath, Josiah Rich-2.

Returns of the Suhordinate Lod,ges

984

[Aug. I,

1896.]

Tb the Grand LodiJe .of OaUfomia.
GIBSO NVILL E LODGE , No. 158.

WOOD LAND LODGE , No. 156.

Gtll.onYi lle, Sierra ()oanty•

Woodlan d, Yolo County.

Stakd Meetinga, SGturday f>f or nm preceding .Full Moon.

Stated .Meetings, .Friday of or next preceding Full .Moon:
OFFICEB M1

Edward Everett Gaddis, Senior .Deacon,
James Thurston Martin, Master,
Thaddeus Stephens Spauldiog,S. Warden , James Thomas Taylor, Junior .Deacon,
Charles Edward Tuck, Junior Warden, George Banks, Marshal,
I Stewards
Simon Baker Relyea,
Temple Perrin Magee, '.n'e~rer,
'
Hans Jaoob W Rasmussen. C
William Henry Curson, Becret,ary,
7)/ler.
g,
Glendenin
Edward
Ohaplain,
Farnham,
Erastns Sylvester
Paat Maateru

Charles Stlocen Frost,
James Kerson Smith,
Francis Ellsworth Bak~r,

William York Browning,
Byron Ball,
Fraukl!o Sylvester Freeman,

John Dixon Stephens,
William Henry Oursoo.

MASTER MASONS:

Michael, Joseph
Diggs, Marshall
Arm1troog, Edw. Milt.on
Miller, David
Donglas, James Achtlles
Baird, Edward Jaaen
Miller, Frederick
Dryfos, Leopold
Bealzley, Theophilus
Nelson, William Wirt
Beamer, Rioh'd Henderson Everett, Louis Phillip
Netbercot t, Robert
Frazer, Donald
Beebe, Oharles Emmett
Parker, Oscar Erwin
Freeman, John Watts
Bird, John W
Perkins, Calvin
Garey, George Jones
Blanton, John Sherman
Browning, Robert Welch Garoutte, Jere, !£9nahan Perry, Henry
Pierson, William Ellsworth
Hall, Andrew Jackson
Boros, Daniel Monroe
Prentiss, Charles Frederick
Hardin, Ephraim
Cassell, William Frost.
Rahm, Francis Marion
Hays, David
Oharmak, Lonie
. Rosenberg, Isidor
Hays, Matthew
Ohurob, Paleo
Smith, Jamee Kerson
Hicks, Humphrey
Ohyt.e, Louis
Steiner, Adam Jackson
Hodge, George Wesley
Cohen, William
Tobias, David
Howard, Jamee Madison
Ooil, Herbert Elmer
Williams, John Calvert
Howell, Marcus Worden
·
Coil, Le Roy
Kincheloe, Zaobar'h Benson Wininger, Joseph Urbao
Cooper, Lother Blake
Witham, Alvin Milton
Lasky, Aaron Marks
Lewis
Henry
Daniels,
Wrigbt, John Henry-75 .
Lawhead, Hiram Davis
Day, Oharles Gtanville
ENTERED APPRENTI CES :

Weaver, Nelson Marioo-2 .

Grom, David

RESTORE D:

Cbarmak, Louls-1.

OFFICER S1

John Wiegand, Mallter,
Jacob Soper Gould, &nior Deacon,
- - - - - . Senior Warden
Leopold Henry Well, Junior Deacon,
a.
JuniorW
Thomas,
David Philipp
Marshal,
'
'lreaaurer
,
Roderick Sutherland
l
P Hector Fraser,
•
Elias G"bb Sq .
St.etoarda,
.Hefkle,
Ohlaholm·
David
'
,
s Oler, Sst1retary
I
George Fli!her, 7)/ler.

rut --- , r

P

Abel McFarland,
Roderick Satherlao d,
Charles Edwin Overatreet,

· Richardson, Charles Wesley-2 .

Howard, Stephen .A

FELLOW CRAFT :

DIED:

Waterworth, James-1.

MacCoul, Alfred-1.

Pilot Rill, El Dorado Oounty.

.,
Stated Meainga, Saturdag of or ne:et preceding .Full .moon.
OFFICE RS .:

Sanford David Diehl• Maltltr•
Senl<tr Deacon,
Elias William Bree"
..,
J hn Bishop, Junior
W1.111am Arcblbald, Sen. Warden,
Deacon,
o
J ohn Pray Cranmer, Junior Warden,
- - - - - , MarahaZ.
Ste
Th
Wall&<:e Boardman Plumb, l
veoeon, 7Ti1aaurer,
~as
f Btetoarda,
Hale Lovejoy,
Lewiston
Secretary,
,
.Jam.es Priest Bayley, 7)/ler.
Paat Maatera 1

John Bishop,

William Archibald.

'

MASTER MASONS :

Bayley, Alcaoder Alonzo

Houston, Noah Beals

RESTORED :

S~y, De Witt Olloton-1 .

DJ.ED;

Eynart, Hilton

MoNee, Alexander
Hall, Lemmon
Meikle, William
Hampson, Henry Clay
Harris, Owen Chamberlain Medaalf, Samuel
. Owens, Owen
Hogao. :Martin
Bamdohr, Henry
Jenkins, John West
Speooer Francia M 1 in
MoFarland, John Carr
e.,
'
· I
· Daoie
MoKeoz!e•
DaYis
Thorn, William
.
Parker-38
Thomas
Todd,
McKenzie, John Hector

PILOT HILL LODGE , No. 160.

Troop, Oscar Fraoklin- 2.

SUSPENDE D l!'OR NON-PAYMENT Ol!' DUES:

Parsons, Wickliffe Broadwell

August Holtz,
J oho Wiegand.

MASTER MASONS :

Brassel, Jacob
Berry, James Edwin
Bieler, Nicholas
Copeland, Isaac
Day, George Holland
Ermatinger, Caaper
Foster, Robert
ForbeR, Hector
Hall, George Alexander

WITHDRA WN:
Maxwel~ Henry J,

••t llla•tere :

Elias Gibbs Bqaier,
Benjamin Jacob Sammons,
Jacob Soper Gould,

Harlan, Benjamin Fraoklio- 3.

Storey, De Witt Clloton-l 2.

SUSPENDE D l!'OR NON·PAYK ENT OF DUBS:

S~ory, De Witt Cllo&oo-L
DIED:

Bayley, Alcander John

35

Ma~berly, William Hardio-2 .

986

Returns of the Subordi-nate Lodges

[Ang. 1,

"

1896.J

To the Grand Lo<U;e. of Oa'lifornia.
MASTER MASONS:

KEYSTONE LODGE, No. 161.

\

lllllton., Calaveraa County.

Castagnetti, J eromEl
De Martini, Antonio
Franzinelli, Antonio
Garfield, Levi

.

Hughes, Watt
Mooney, Isaac Thompson
James, William Matthew Scott, John Alexander
Luther, William Thompson Watte, John-22.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

RESTORED:

OFFICERS•

Murphy, Patrick-I.

Phipps, John Anthony-1.

Horace Bell A.lien, Mawter,
Wm. }:lenry Harrison Rhodes, Sr. Deacon,
Steven Decater Hildebrand, Sr. Warden, Marion Lee Hant, Junior JJeaoon,
Nllls Wm. Jorgen Jorgensen, Jr. Warden, Peter Sterling Robertson, Marshal,
Clinton Gall, Treaaurer,
Willi~m Sn.ow, } BteUJards,
Charles Wise Rhodes, Secretaf'!J,
Lemuel Wilcox,
William Ruffing Dees, Ohaplain,
Thomas Leander Willis, 7Y!er.

WITHDRAWN:

Wixson, Julius Stanton

Trebilcock, James-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Gardella, Benjamin Carlo

Trevethan, Thomas Henry-2.
DIED:

Drew, Thomas

Past Maatera 1

John Manuel Baker,
Peter Sterling Robertson,

987

Williams, J OBeph-2.

Horace Bell Allen.

Charles Wise Rhodes,
Steven Decater Hildebrand,
MAl!TER MASONS :

Ortman, Berman
Hunt, Daniel
Bisbee, Wilson Abner
l:!abln, Abner Moses
Brooks, Walter EllRworth Kendall, James
Stewart, John Daniels
Klemp, Jacob
Case, William Henry
Fontana, Charles Dominic Mercer, Robert Ainsworth Stroud, Tracy
Wells, Thomas-29.
Bendri.Jk, Nathaniel Ward Milner, John Frederick
Honey, Milton
FELLOW ORA.FT :

DIED:

Rice, John-1.

McClenahan, Frederick Walter-I.

EXCELSIOR LODGE, No. 166.
San Franohco, San Fraacbco Coant;v.

Stated Meetings, Ji.rat Wednuday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Parshall Overton, Maater,
Walter Neat Brnut, .senior Deaoon,
Hugh James Owen, Senior Warden,
Otto Frank Westphal, Junior Deacon,
William Wilson HcNair, Junior Warden, Lester Boward Frank McKee, Marshal,
Aaron Doud, 2reairurer,
Henry William Westphal, l Stewards
Theodore Edward Smith, Secretary,
Louis Augustine Murch, f
'
George Washington Perkins, Tyler.

HARMONY LODGE, No. 164.

Paat Maatera1

Sierra City, Sierra County.

Stakd Medinga, Saturday of or nut aucutding Full Moon.
OFFICERS I

George Scott Black, Maller,
Charles Oaatagna, Senior JJeacon,
Gustav Nelson, Senior Warden,
John Sorocco, Junior Deacon,
John Avignoni, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - , Marshal,
Stephen Thomas, 7Teasurer,
- - , } Steu:ards'.
William Cox, Secretary,
----- ,
Ernest Frederick Busch, 7Yler.
Pa•t Maatera1

Schuyler Nind Wilcox,
August Christopher Busch,
George Scott Black,

Thomas Woon Wllliams,
William Oox,

Stephen Thomas,
Charles Castagna.

Theodore Edward Smith, Frederick Conway Bensley, Franklin Pettingel Ball,
Stewart Menzies,
Arthur Rodgers, ·
William Aaron Doud,
William Adams Stuart,
Sam Houston Daniele,
Samuel Henry Perkins,
Alexander Martin,
A. Barack vou Wefelsburg, John Menzies Smith,
Wendell Easton,
John George Oourad,
Harry Joseph Lask,
Charles Henry Bryan,
George Robert Armstrong, John Jacob Stofen,
Thos. Thompson Atkinson, Federico Goillermo Voes, Washington Ayer.,
Curtis George Kenyon,
MASTER MABON :

Adams, Adolph
Barobisei,EpenetosRodgerii Boettcher, Pao!
Allen, Isaac Patten
Barrere, Lonie
Bogen, William
Ammerap, Gottlieb Adolph Barth, Angust Hermann
Bohls, Henry
Anthony, Edward Taylor Beck, Reinhold
Booth, Andrew George
Ballard, Jedediah Stow
Belden, Henry Keney
Bothin, Julina Christopher
Bancroft, Charles Edwin
Black, James Alexander Boutelle, William Olareuce

•

988

RetwrruJ of the Subordinate LodgtJJ.

[Aug. h

Morse, John Frederick
Healey, Benjamin
Boyson, Thomas
Breitenbaob, Emile Henry Bobbs, John Kimb'I Carlt'n Murdock, George Hamilton
Nash, Jason William
Hogan, Henry Howard
Brown, Henry Eastman
Naonton, George
Hollister, Frank E
Brown, Iraaon Croner
Osborn, Lamartine
Bromada, Adolph
Brown, James Aldrich
Overgaard, Boren Knndsen
Hughes, JeBSe Pierce
Brown, Moses Pettingill
Brooe, James Henderson Humphrey, Cbaa. Franklin Overton, Victor Grant
Iredale, Charles Winslow Parish, Mark
Brunlng1, John Henry
Parnell, William Rossell
Booldngham,Aorelloa Eyn'd J ohnaon, Frank
Pearson, Henry Haven
Butll.ngton, William Horace Johnson, Jamee Halvor
Perkins, Willis Thomae
Johnson, John Charles
Chretien, John Merry
Pike, Alfred Pillsbury
Christesen, Martin AogostC.Kero, Morris James
Pippy, George Henry
Killip, Jasper Newton
Oloak, Barry Bardell
Polastri, Richard Stephen
Kincaid, John Evan•
Clolf, William
Postiglioni, Gloseppi Maria
Kirby, John Timothy
Oonrad, David Andrew
Kittredge, Addison Gage Quevedo, Francisco
Oook, Jos. Carroll Hoff
Knowles, Samuel Edward Rice, Richard James
Oreber, Walter
Rietzke, Gustav Charles
Koeb!g, Julius
Cree&y, Albert
Scheerer, Joseph
Kohn, Isaaok
Cuthbert, John William
Schetzel, Adolph Georg
Danforth, Edward Putnam Koster, John Andreaa
Scott, George
Kron, Oscar Jacob
Davis, Charles Lott
Davis, Edward Lawrence Knhls,Edw'd Gerhard Fre'k Scott, Joseph Henry
· Kohls, Frederick August Scull, Charles
Davis, Herbert Arthur
Bhalnwald, Herman
· Lacy, Albert Ernest
Davie, Marks
Shaw, Butler Emerson
Lank, Samuel James
Davia, Winlleld Scott
Shortridge, Samuel Morgan
Lavery, Joseph Gray
Deering,Frank Prentiss
DeGnerre,.AlhertBydoeyJ. LeOount, Joseph Palmer, Smith, Charles Robert
Spencer, Almon Oarson
Llewellyn, Reese
Deveny, Peier
Steinmetz, Theodore John
London, Henry
Dodson, Eugene Morris
Stockfieth, John
Long, George Bearley
Dore,"Beojamln
Loughery, Robert Johnston Stockwell, James Henry
Dorr, Levi Lewis
Stromberg, Bern'd Frithoft'
Lovelace, Arthnr Stuart
Dow, Duter Dean
Stroud, John Rodgers
Lncaa, Walter Edward
Duft', Thomas Caron
Lutgen, Charles Ferdinand Sumner, Frank William
Dugan, Charles Edwin
Taber, Charles Wesley
Lutkey, George
Dwyer, James Richard
Taylor, Edwin Maetick
Marks, JeBSe Emanuel
Easton, George
Taylor, Frederick Sprowle
MoCaffrey, Thomas
Eaton, Louis Page
Taylor, George MoClellan
Edwa.rds, Jae. Washington McDonald, Robert
McDonnell, Samuel Alex. Thomas, Charles Dirth
Edward&, William
McKenna, Joseph Dimond Tichenor, Austin Kent
Engliah,Ed.ward
Tiffany, William Zobel
Farnsworth, David Looke MoLeod, George
Tihs, Frank H
McLanghlln, David
Fernllo, David
Tolman, Rufus Jenkins
FitzGerald, William Thomaa Mehrtens, John Henry
Trlest, Bernhard
Michelsen, Peter
Foster, Colin Lawrence
Umbseo, Gnstave Henry
Miles, William Emmert
Gates, Emory Pease
Vail, Aiken Riller
Graham, Thomas Donnett Mitchell, Robert Brent
Van Housen, William
Gnest, Thomas Frederick :Mitchell, William James
Van Bchaick, Frank Chester
Mix, Lee Williamson
Hallett, Alonzo
Von Gieglingen, Arthur
Halstead, Wm. Augustus Monolsvaia, Charles
Wade, William Wray
Hannigan, Michael Percival Moore, Arthur Weld
Ward, Charles Herbert
Moraghan, John Owen
Harrold, Richard
Hart,WilliamH'ry Harrison Moraghan, Michael Bolan Welby, Charles William

•

1896,]

To the Grand Lodge. of OaliforrW;i.

Welch, Willard Choate, Jr. White, Jonathan Lloyd
Wen11elborger,Chas.Wm.A.Whlte, Joshua Howe
Weetphlll, Chrietiao Henry Wilson, Charles Harold
Wilson, Charles Rudd
White, Horace Granville

989

Wolfe, Clarenoe Nevarre
Woods, Harry Frank
Wright, William James

-217.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Cortie, Frank,Waldo

Nevin, Charles Willlam-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Cumming, David

Davie, William Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Bishop, John Andrew
Bremer, George St. John

Gray, DeWitt Clinton Osborn, Fred'k Alexander
Gritll.th, Edgar Milton Woodward, Gideon Paschall-6,
DIED:

Edwards, Henry

Eklund, John Pet.er-2.

ALAMEDA LODGE, No. 167.
Centreville, Alameda. Ooanty.

Stat&l Meeting41 S<Uurday ne.:u preceding Full Moon.
OPFICERSa

Edwin Whipple, Maater,
William Henry Ford, Stmfc,. Deacon,
Rudolph Volmer, Senwr Warden,
j:enry Whyte Emerson, Junior Deacon,
William Walla~e . Brier, Junior Warden, George Mead Smith, Marahal,
Edward Niehaus, 7r11aw,.er,
Adolph Wilhelm LBBSen, l steuiarcfa,
Henry May, &IW'eta,.y,
f
Prosper Plourde,
·
Francis Henry Robinson, Ohaplain,
James Allen Trefry, Ty"ler.
Pa.at Ma.aten 1

George Andrew Beebe,
Andrew Jackson Hare,
Thomaa Chari~@ Haxley,
Caleb Scott Haley,
Gordon Walter Willis,
Franois Henry Robinson,
Oliver Lyman Boothwiok, Farley Benj. Granger, Jr., Heman Orowell.
MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, Martin Peter
Baker, Ellis William
Barry, William
Beard, John Lyman
Blacow, Riuhard Dearing
Blair, Thomas Henry
Chalmers, George Fred
Christensen, Andrew
Clark, Alson Sherman
Clark, George Harvey
Cashing, John Henry

Davis, Richard AagostUB
Dixon, MaUbew William
Ehrman, Solomon
Emerson, George
Farley, Newton Seymour
Fergodo, Emanuel Silvera
Finn, Alexander
Ford, flenry Darnall
Fowler, Herbert Eli
Goodwin, Samuel
Goyette, John

Gra.w, Edw.ard .Arnold
Gregory, Henry Clay
Ba~·y, Comfort
Haley, William Wallace
Hellwig, Frederick Philip
Hooting, Henry Hale
Ismert, Julius Edwin
Jong, William
Kelley, David Chalfant
Larkin, Stephen Amoe
Lebrecht, Adolph

990

Returns of the Subordinate Lo<l.ges

Lee, Antonio
McKeown, James
McLeod, Andrew Jackson
McLeod, James Monroe
Megahan, Ambrose
Miller, Charles
Morrison, Perry
Mortimer, Frank

[Aug, 1,

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifomw.

'

Silva, Mannel Francisco
Mortimer, William
Ove_,!acker, How'd lgnatins Simpson, Ozias Buddington
\
Stanley, James
Overacker, Howard, Jr.
Sturges, Mablon Beach
Phipps, Samson
Terrill, John Byron
Ralph, Ivins Vernett
Thom, Charles Jefferson
Salz, Sigmond
Werner, Edward Peter
Scott, Caleb Cook
Shepardson, Obas. Cabanne Yates, William Andrew-77.
SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

WITHDRAWN:

1896.]

991

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Brittan, Morgan Lewis

Black, Henry-2.
FELLOW ORAJ!'T :

Bottomly, Oarter William-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Hngbes, James Shephard

Jacobson, Oharles

Owen, Frank H-3.

DIED:

Wangh, David Francls-1.

Fare, John Threlf11oll-l,

Kay, William-1,
DIED:

Peacock, George W~hington-1.

SAN MATEO LODGE, No. 168,
Redwood City, San Mateo County.

Stated MetStinga, Saturday of or nezt pr~ctding Full Moon.

Stated Muting11, firat Wednudag in each mont".
OFFICERS1

OFFICERS•

John Wesley Poole, Senior Deaoan,
Phil. Peregreen Chamberlain, MaRter,
John Andrew McPherson, Junior Deacon,
Jesse Penton, Sen{orWarden,
Philip Lndwig Behrens, Junior Warden, William Hngbes, Marshal,
Willard Wilson Bacon, l StBWards
Henry Beeger, :Ireaturer,
'
f
James Gillespie,
George Winthrop Fox, Secretary,
Richard Foyester Rombol, 7Yler.
Pa•t

MISSION LODGE, No. 169.
San Francfaco, San Franelaco County.

:ifra•ter• 1

Jonathan White,
George Winthrop Fox,

Phil. Peregreen Chamberlain,
Benjamin Asbory Rankin,

Andren, Nils Andre
Bornstein, Herman
Breeze, James Patterson
Brown, Robert
Conover, John Simpson
Cook, Alonzo
Crowe, James
Crow, William David
Eckhart, Charles Herman
Fisher, Leonard
Fisher, William Henry
F1ank, Lonie Joseph
Frank, William
Good~peed, Isaac Roscoe
Gnerre, Giovanni
Hague, Joseph Lincc1ln
Hanson, Peter Marena
Headley, William

Henwood, A.rthnr William
Holden, George Wolcott
Honter, William
Knees, Philip
Leary, Denis Grimes
Lindstrom, John
Lipp, William Henry
Lond, William Ohridian
McBain, Edward Gordon
McGarvey, Owen
Mills, Da vld J osiab
Oigen, Lorenz
Peers, Alexander
Pfeift'er, Loots
Pipkin, William Harvey
Poole, J ohu
Ralston, J oho Thurston
Reinhart, Jacob Henry

William Henry Gardner.

MASTER MASONS:

Robb, Jesse Calvin
Robertson, Charles David
Ross, George Carlos .
RoBB, Joseph Lonie
Sebastiani, Salvator
Sickert, Frederick Wilhelm
Sanberg, Erik Pederson
Boole, John Alden
Stuart, William Baker
Swenson, Carl
Thompson, Henry Bailey
Tilton, Howard Qoincy
Twombley, Llewellyn Beal
Voorhies, Danit>! Got!
Wade, James
Wilcox, Edmund North
Winkler, John Karl Gollob
Wisnom, John-68.

Fred Herbert Gibson, Senior Deacon,
James Andrew Wilson, Mast6r,
Obarles Austin Day, Junior Deaoon,
Andrew Christensen, Senior Warden,
Emil Americns Hermann, Mar1hal,
William Henry Cobb, Junim- Warden,
t Btf!lllarda
John Henry Ponder,
George Daniel Flack, 7rea1Urer,
'
Charles Edward Benedict, 5
Charles Dimmock Bnnker, SecrBta.ry,
Charles Gitsham, 1.yler.
Paat Maeter• 1
Martin Van Boren Taylor, John Beoben Hillman,
Elias Rodecker,
Frederick Watson Foster, Cyrus Clinton Dow,
Jerome Spaulding,
James Peverly Hodgdon,
Fred.AdelbertWaterhonse, Henry Chase Bonker,
Marcelos Americus Dorn, Myron Hatch Renwick,
Parlan B Conningham,
William Wallace Moore,
Joseph Grafton Smith,
Colombos wir.terhonse.
William Irwin,
William Edmond Price,
Palmer Cox,
John Alexander Apperson.
Frank Augnstos Reynolds, Richard Herring,
William Wilkins de Winton,
Jobn Wagper,
MARTER MASONS:

Aldrich, Edmnnd Knight
Babcock, Madison
Allan, Richard Spicer
Ball, Thaddens
Allen, Robert Edward
Barnes, William Wallace
Ames, Frank Mathew
Barron, Arthor Walter
Anderson, Isaac
Basney, Virgil Tyler
Armstrong, Rodolph
Baston, Joseph Gardner
Amy, Winfield Scott
Baxter, Matthew
Arnold, Clarence Edmnnd Beamish, Percy
Arnndell, William Thomas Beck, Adam
Atkinson, George Fred'k Bell, John Joseph
J..yera, Charles Lamont
Berg, George Charles

Bigelow, Edwin Wells
Boelen, Alfred Blachley
Boelen, William Charles
Brace, Nathan
Bragg, Frank
Brodek, Robert Tnch
Brooke, Orion
Brown, James Henry
Browning, Jeremiah
Bruna, Henry Frederick
Bryan,Jaoob

992

Bdurn s of the Subordinate ·Lodgea

[Aug. 1;

Jones, Edward Thomas
.
Farrell, William
Bryon, Benjamin
Frederic k Charles
Jone1,
Henry
"'
Wat•·r
Fearn,
J
ames
·
Wilham
Bon,
Bates
John
Jones,
Black
Daniel
Fifield,
Carr, John George
Fisher, Charles Emmons Jones, John Richard
Center, Hogh
Jones, Samuel .4
Floyd, William Ervin
Chapin, George Edward
Thomas
Cheesman, Robert Bowen Forrest, Robert McClelland Jones,
William Gnstne
Jones,
Godfrey
William
ks
Frederic
Wm.C.
Ernst
nsen,
Christia
Kane, John Frederic k
Gaines, Rufus Henry
Claussen, Daniel
Frank George
Cobb, Edward Sigourney Gardner, Frederic Archie Kenne,
Gibson, William Franklin Kennedy, James Kelty
Coffin, Dewey
Keyser, Paol
Coffi~, Rodolphus William Gniro, Pao!
, Jamee Wood
Keyston
Joseph
Patrick
,
Glennon
Caball
Collins, Thomas
Goodman William Graves Keyston, William Donald
Conddn, Michael Daniel
Killgore, Edwin Read
Conlllllly, James Edward Gostlin, Thomas
Killgore, Robert Read
Grant, James Cameron
Conway, George
King, Dennie Wyckoff
donsins, Riobard Joseph . Grantlan d, John .
John Mathias
Klein,
Morris
Green,
·
H b rt ff
Kneass, Edward Daniel
Haines, SaDloel Newell
arry
Cooper, er e
Konrad, Joseph Leopold
John Hadden
Cox,
Crisman, Chas. Lafayette Hall, Seth Paiue
Kress, Aogostos Herman
Halsted, John Be·r nard
Crocker, IJiaac Berry
Lawson, Enoch
Henry
Haman,
Cross Charles Vernon
Lewis, Oscar
Hambly , Harry Bishop
Colve'r James Henry
Charles
Libby,
·
Hammit, John Nimrod
F
J h Frederic
•
CorrIe,'Rob er•., uTr•
Lmdstrom, o n ranc1s
Barnwell, William
Cortis John Morrison
Ja?'es
Lodge, R~bert
Dahle;, Henry Mathias G. Hart, Frank William
Logan, .Milhorn 811!
Haskell , Benjamin B
Daley, Robert Bogh
Lord, Thomas
Ba.tton, George
Daly John Donald
LoYe, Joseph Oharles
Hawghton, John
Day 'Henry Lucas
Loce, Samuel Andrews
Hayes, Benjamin West
D ./Thom as Henry
Johnson Lundstrom, Knot A. Magn's
D:~alt, George Wash'ton Headrick, AndrewFerdinan
d Lyons, Seel Bake~
Antoo
h.
Hellmut
Decker, Charles William
Hellwlg,Carl Fred'kH er.C. Mack, Albert Chnstlan
Delan , Joseph
er,Jr.
J
. Alexand
Hemstre et, Albert David Magee, John
· k
y , F red enc
Diserens
Patrick . am.es,
Mano,
William
Peter
Hickie,
Charles
lus
Theophi
Dodge,
Manning, DennlB Rich dson
Dominguez Richard Arthur Biggins, Robert
Mart'.n, Horace Hubbar d
Douglass, George Willard Bill, Truman Lefever
Martin, Eugene-Pao!
Hitch, Edward Everett
Driscoll, James Edward
Maondrell, Harry
Hitchco x, Henry
d Mark
D
,. Felix
Maurice
Henry
Hock,
HWinfield
·
.
monW~ll"
romb
Don ar, 1 1am •
enry
Wilham
Main,
Tobias
Henry
Hook,
B · In Beatty
·
s, George Monroe .
ellJamHepb orn Holloway, Albert Eugene Mathew
Duncan, James
t J es
C
M
Duncan,
c ar y, La~ Ph'll'
Houston, Carter
Dyer, Richard William
1 1pe
McCarty, onis
Howe, Alvin Jared
· ··
ld, W1'lliam
McDona
·n·
Ede, Wilham
Rowland
Josiah
Howell,
-'- W
Mcintosh, John.Fr aser
EdwarWt,D tiI iam
f J 0 h nn1.s Boyer, Jacob Fred'k Wm. McKenzie, Albert William
a
e e
Ei~feldt,
n Donald
.Ell1ott, Wm. Woodw~rth Hurlbur t, Reuben Preston M K'
L
cKninno •H
Ingraham, J obn Sturgis.
English, John Franms
ee
enry Mitchel
Mc ew,
l
b urn J aokson, J oh o Quincy
McLachlan, Thos.
Evans, Chester Hep
.
Corbett
Henry
Jagger,
Ewell, Augustus Hyde
McLay, George Binney
k Bolla Douthlll Janes, Charles Meiggs
McMurray, John Park
Johns, Josiah
Fairban s,
McPhun, William, Jr.
, Mar~h~ll
Fairfieldve,
Johnston , George
Wilham
Fairgrle

1896.]

To the fkand Lodge 'of O<ilifornia.

993

Swenson, John Augostus
Ramsden, Thomas
McQuoid, Joseph
Reich, Frederick William Tabrett, Henry Charles
Mears, Harry Wilder
Taylor, George Howea
~ehrtens,Joho Kruikamp Reis, John O'Neal
Horatio Prootor
Terry,
Davis
Edward
Rickett,
Talmage
Daniel
,
Mershon
William Henry
Thomas,
h
Friedolp
Charles
Rodin,
er
Mennie, Alexa11d
Thompson, George
Rood, Frank Henry
Miller, John Alexander
Thompson, Hans
Miller,John Edward Adolp's Root, Ellis James
Thompson, Johu
Roy, John Alexander
Miller, John Wallace
Thomsen, Samuel Mehaft)
Salmond, Colin
Mori, Emille Daniel
, John Benjamin
Timbrel
Heinrich
Scheel,
Morine, Edgar Seymore
Scbloegel,Fred.Edw.Aug'st Tippetts,George Fredericka
Newkirk, Daniel Irwin
Tooker, Edwin Warren
Scott, Edwin George
Noonan, Edward
, Frank Toller
Vanatta
Hillman
Isaao
oe,
Beveran
k
FredeTic
Oehne,
ook, Roberts
Vandero
Benton
Charles
,
Shattuck
Franklin
n
Ogden, Benjami
Von Hartin, Lewis
Shepston, John .4
O'Keefee, Jeremia h
Liemann,Gustav Aug. Ferd. Waoker, Charles Fr.ederlck
Ordway, William Chase'
Wallis, SaDluel Charles
Parmelee, James Edward Siemers, John Diedrich
Weaver, Hammond Shipley
Franklin
John
on,
Skivingt
Wm.Hill
George
n,
Patterso
Wesson, Joseph William
Mark
Clarence
Smith,
Hunter
Patterso n, James
Smith, David Charles, Jr. West, John Charles
Paterson , William
Westaway, William Charles
Smith, James
Patten, Henry
Westfield, Robert
Soboslay, Jalios
Pegg, Isaac Burnham
White, Oscar William
Somers, Harvey Curtis·
Peabouy, Edward
Wiedenbeck, George
Soper, Joseph Henry
Periam, Charles James
Wiley, Isaac
Spadoni, Joseph
Periam, John Thomas
Williams, Eben Barker
Spark, Jolin
Petersen , Mathew
John
Phillips, Charles Theodore Spear, Alexander Fulton Wilson,
, Jas. Beaumont N.
Wingate
Eogeoe
Lewis
Plymire, David Brandley Spear,
Wood, John
. Staab, Henry Gustav
Prince, Henry Gltman
Woodw ard,Arch lmedesB .
Quackenbush, Sam'! Henry Stone, John Thomas
Sturges, Charles William Worden, Elisha Case
Quinlan, James Henry
William Adolph
Raabe, Frederic k William Snmmerhayes, Wm. Ruggle Zollner,
-320.
Ralston, Gavio
FELLOW ORAFTS :

Corblere, Charles Colfax
Elam, Thomas

Haughton, John William
Mahler, Martin

Bachtel, Warren Leland
Davldsoo, George Bailey
Mnnck, Charles Emil

Robinson, George
Simms, John Fletcher
Smith, Alphonso Bodd

Nilson, Brown Oscar-5 .

ENTERE D APPBEN TIOES :

Stein, Lools l'incent de
Wilson, Byron Hogh
Woods, Robert- 9.

WITHDRAWN:

Eberle, Adam Winfield
Oasey, David
Johnson , James
Oorry, John Eugene
Oothbertson, Walter Jones Lane, William

.MacLaclilan, John
Ross, Hngh Cobban -8.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Nisbet, James Napler- 2.

Hutchinson, John

SUSPENDED FOR UNMABONIO CONDUCT :

Jourden , Joseph Daniel- 1.
DIED:

Roberts, Ellis

36

Woerner, David

Zimmerman, Daniel Basler
-ll.

994

Returns of the SulxYrdinate L<Jdge,s

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of OaU/ornia.

995

P&8t Maatera 1

William Jennings,

Julio Ambrose Gessler,

ELK GROVE LODGE, No. 173.

John Milton Hinkson.

MASTER MASONS :

Elk GroTe, Sacramento County.

Evans, Robert
Jennings, George Choat

Stab!AJ, Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding FuU Moon.

Morris, Thomas
Venning, John

Wilbur, Shadrach Weymouth
-17.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

OFFICERS a

Westover, William Frederlok-2.

Logamasino, Lazzare

Edward Edmond Barry, Senwr Deacon,'
Henry Alltnoker, .Master,
John Elliott, Junior Deacon,
Isaac Lake Freeman, Senior Warden,
Silas Olark Stewart, MM•ha!,
Artbnr Delos Gage, Junior Wardm,
Tbaddens Cortis MoCoonell, l Slelllard•,
Norman Ives Stewart, 7hawrer,
f
Harry Leo Btlob,
Lewlll Bower, Bscretal"'!J,
George Shaw Williamson, Tyl.8r.

DIED:

Bell, Hngh Harrieon-1.

Pa•t Ma•tena

Silas Clark Stewart,
Lewis Bower,

Harry Leo Stieb.

Isaao Lake Freeman,
Henry .A.lltncker,

ANTIOCH LODGE, No. 175.

MASTER MASONS :

Andrews, John Nichols
Beokley, Pyrlne Ripley
Brown, Frank Leroy
Obrestesen, Robert
Elder, James Andrew
Elliott, Obrlstopber Adam
Fay, Newton Mnrray
Fr~eman, Clarkson Pike
Glaon, Peter

Gray, Alexander Isaac
Gray, Arthur Irvine
Herbert, Lonie
Hoove~, Benj. Van Zandt
Kelly, James Monroe
Kennard, Cyroa Brackett
Mabone, Robert H4!nry
Mealer, Thomas J elferson
MoKee, James Anderson

Bradford, James Barton

Bradford, William Barton_

Antioch, Contra Coata County,

Riobards, John
Robertson, Henry
Ross, George Benton
Stephenson, Ed ward George
Stephenson, Igal Kennedy •
S~pbenson, William Thomas
Walther, Charles Frederick
Wood, Alfred Henry-ST.

Stated M«tinga, Saturday of or ma:t auccuding F'ull Moon.
OFFICERS1

Henry Foller Beede, Senior DeQ.(J()n,
Obarles Mortimer Belshaw, Master,
Charles Franklin Montgomery, 8r. War., Rasmus Emil Hansen, Junior Deaoon,
Onrtis •'ranklin Montgomery, Mar1hal,
Worth Boott George, Junior Warden,
George Creighton Wright, t Stetoards
J oho Collins Boose, 7reasurer,
'
f
Joseph Francis Raney,
Josiah Rio Baker, Bearetary,
Frederick Wilkening, 'Iyler.

WITHDRAWN:

Paat Maatena

McOonnell, Tbomas-3.

Charles Mortimer Belshaw,
Josiah Rio Baker,
Francis Williams,
George Creighton Wright,
Joshua Plummer Abbott, Henry Foller Beede,
Nathaniel Woodhull Smith, Anderson Corbon Hartley, Jam es Oarter.

DIED:

.Ohinnick, James Thomas-I.

MASTER MASONS:

Chase, John Gibson
Cole, James Ollirns
Foreman, William Riddle
Hungerford, Frank Mason
Jaoobs, Moms Harris
McGeorge, Verne Adrian
Metcalf, Solon Thayer

DRYTOWN LODGE, No, 174.
Dryto- Amador County.

Smith, Robert Tangier
Miller, George
Mlnaker, George Alexander Storey, Walter
Tyler, Nathaniel Austin
Nellis, Walter
Veale, Riobard Raines, Jr.
Norman, John
Walton, Mark Anthony
Rattan, Frank
Wightman, Joel David
Rhoades, John Oharles
Rogers, Orlando Newton Yets, Richard-87.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Stated Meeting•, Wednesday of or nezt succeeding FuU Moon.

Lnppa, Charles

Casselman, William James

OFFICERS•

Thomas Hnnyobnrcb, Senior Deaaon,
Jnlio Ambrose Ge88ler, Master,
John Milton Hinkson, Senior Warden, Charles Harrison Marchand, Jr, Deacon,
Wiltiam Jennings, Mar•hal,
Thomas Silva, Junior Warden,
I SlettJards
Thomas Rowse,
Calder Haymond Misner, '.lreasurer,
'
Frank Findlay Johnston, f
Allen J,ee McWayne, Secretar1J.
Lonis Henk, 7Yler.

Walker, Andrew-3.

RESTORED:

Wightman, Joel David-2.

Thomas, Evan

WITHDRAWN;

Layne, Edward Reynolds

•

Parkison, .Manne! Oasada

Thomas, Evan- 3.

DIED:

Dobyns, William Henry

Grant, Peter Bnell- 2.

996

Returns of the Stibordinate Lo_dgeJJ

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lod{/e 9f Oalifornia.

997

RAISED:

Boardman, Sydney Romania-I.

PHCENIX LODGE, No. 178.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.

FELLOW .CRAFTS:

Kelley, Stephen Francie

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Harry Charles Howland, Senfor De11ot1n,
John Franklin Johnson, Jr., Malter,
Wilbur Channing Pearse, Junior Deaoon,
Walter Rabbe.rd, Senior Warden,
John Milton Barion, Marahal,
Andrew Park, Junior Warden,
Lewis Jacobs, Treaaurer, ·
Franklin Gilder Randle,
l StetDards,
Oharles Alex. Mackechnie, f
Daniel Taylor Brnmmett, Seor(!tary,
J&Dles Rodolph Knodell, Chaplain ,
Edward Alexander Smith (of BiBi.nq Sun Lodge, No. 8, Ft. Scott, Kan.), '.JWler.
Paat ,Maatera 1

Horaoe Oowen Rolfe,"
Isaao Raphael Brunn,
George Lord,
John Caleb King,

Frank Hooker Me.goftln,
Sydney Mee,
James Alexander Gibson, Milford Byron Terrass,
Thomas Jonathan Wilson, Jeremiah Drake Onsterhout,
Henry .4 Keller,

Lewis, Lewis-2.

ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Oarit, Joan Alfonso
Clark, John De.vis
Daley, Miehe.el

Gilford, Andrew Clinton
Roberts, Horace Jewell

De.vi&, Milo Eugene

Downer, Abner John

Slanghter, Fenton Meroer
Talmadge, William Seymour
-7.

RESTORED:

Porter, William Bobert-3

WITHDRAWN:

Ade.ms, James Edwin·
James, Benje.min Franklin Sterns, Albert Henry
Boardman, Sydney Romante Miller, William Lewis
Young, George Aosiln-8.
Jlnghes, Joseph Harrison Mi~tendorr, Lewis Ernest

MASTER MASONS :

•

Aldrldie, David Lehigh
Gates, Henry
Miller, George Washington
Allen, Oliver .4
Goodwill, Thomas Mitchell Molfatt, James
Andreson, John
Grow, Samuel Lorenzo
Morgan, Josiah Wheeler
Baker, Joseph Allen
Guthrie. Harison Hazlett Morse, Arthur Perry
Blestme.n, Berne.rd
He.lie, Smith Cook
O'Donnell, Martin Willlam
Bia.Ir, Wiiiiam Je.okson
Haley, Edwin Willis
Oster, Frank Frederick
Bre.safleld, W1llle.m Leone.rd Henderson, Wm. McDonald Palmer, Asa John Wood
Brown, Asbel Green
Herold, Andrew Donglasa Parker, Robert Brye.itt
Brown, Joseph
Holcomb, Francis Leroy
Perley, John Morrell
Brown, Nelson H
Holmes, Albert Osborn
Pierce, George Strunk
Browning, Charles Clifton Holt, Amos Kendall
Poppett, Robert
Bnrbeck, William Lee
Hook, John
Porter, William Robert
Bnrkhart, John B
Hooper, William Swayze Roos, Bo Chrietiam
Ohe.se, Philip James
Hubbard, Anthony Gerhard Skinner, William Wright
Ole.rk, Hiram
Jacobs, William Donaldson Soule, Wm. Lloyd IJe.rrison
Olark, Horace
Johnson, Ammi Keyes
Sprott, Thomas William
Cole, Che.rlesJDe.vls
Johnson, James Hunter
S~iles, William Beman
Cole, George Benje.min
Jordan, Henry John
Stone, David P
Colliver, Jefferson Thomas Kennedy, Robert Jame.a
Te.ft, Daniel Asa
Oonwe.y, Michael
Knapp, Calvin Ree.son
Taylor, Ambrose
Davidson, Alonzo Stedman Knox, John. Thompson
Thomas, J ohn Samuel
De.vis, Milo Engene
Larkins, Geo. Washington Troll, Walter Butler
De.oust, Simeon
Leisenring, Fred'k Gideon Tnrner, Jobn Clark
Desmond, Louis Alexander Leone.rd,Je.mes Obrlstopher Umbs, Jesse
Downer, Abner John
Littlejohn, James Henry
Upson, Orrin Alva
Emmerson, John
Longmire, Rufus Elbert
Waters, Byron Brewster
Ericson, Eric Theodore
Lyster, William IJre.fton
Wheeler, Frank
Flagg, John
Marks, Joseph
Wilson James Monroe
Folks, Siephen Decatur
MoOre.cken, John William Wilson, ThomBS J efferson
Fosier, Alf'red Brian·
McOullou1rh, Wm. Pinkney Wright, George Elmer
Garner, Moses B
Michaels, He.lie.chi Winfl!!ld Zombro, Sumpter F- 11'.

MENDOCINO LODGE, No. 179.
· Mendocino, Mendocino County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding .Ful.i Moon.
OFFICERS a

Thoma• J eft'erson Richards, Maater,
Simon Fillmore Stukey, Senior' Deaoon
Done.Id Sangster, Senior Warden,
Oharles Thoma.a Gray, Junior Deacon,
Walter Morrison Stone, Junior W11rden, John Lother Ole.rk, Marshal,
Henry Herbert Jarvis, 7reaaurer,
James Lewis Petersen, l Stewards,
Obe.rles Oscar Pe.eke.rd, &oret11r1J.
Samuel L Ayer11,
f
·
William Heeser, Ohaplain,
Leonard Joel Allen, Tyler.
Paat Ma•ter• 1

Frederick Halling,
Benj. Almon Pe.ddlerord,
John Peter Linberg,
William Trne Wallace, ,
William Andrew McCornack, Clarence ffimer White,
J11mes William Fraser,

Frederick William De.rt,
William Reeser,
Oe.ssimer Jackson Woods.

MASTER MASONS:

Banm, Harmana Robert
Flood, Emery Newell
Haseltine, M.artin M
BiLher, Le.ore.nee Hartson Flood, Henry William
Hoak, Newman Irvine
Carpenter, J oho Jacob
Foy, Henry Malcom
Huff, Obarlee E.
Corrigan, Jamee Sumner Grindle, Joshua
Keen, James Edward
Dart, Joseph Howe
He.genmeyer, Gebbe.rd
Keller, Willis Alfonso
Donaboe, Edward John
Hargraves, P itman Colle.rd Kiser, Aaron
Doyle, James
Harvey, John Duncan
Kiser, Me.thew

•

•

•

998

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Lyman, Artbnr B
Beilly,James Edward
Sissons,JohnB.
MacDonald, John
Bewce.stle, James Goodie Amith, Geol"ge Oanning
Robinson, Thus. Alexander Taylor, John Harrison
Marson, John Peter
Tnroer, William Price
McDonald, John Kenneth Rushing, Thome.a B
McKay, Andrew
Sanders, George Henry
Weiss, Frederick
Newman, Andrew
Scott, James Preston
Williams, William Lewis
Perry, John Edward
Severance, Frank Billings Woodruff, Ohester-64.
Petersen, Thomas Heinrich
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Friel, Anthony

McKay, Angus-2.

WITHDRAWN:

SUSPJ!:NDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Rushing, Jil11och Deaslng-1.

Williams, Sidney-1.

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1896.J

Markwell, Henry Booth
Pitts, Isaac Jasper
Martin, William
Piasa, Philip Henry
McDonald, Gilbert
Poehlman, Oonrad
McGuire, Thomas
PridE!, Hiram Wroe
McKillop, Dugald
Reed, Olarence Ellsworth
. McMartin, John Alex.
Risk, David Rankin
Merritt, J obn
Roberta, Henry John
Mills, Charles Newton
Rohrer, Oharlea Frederick
Mills, William Andrew
Scott, John Colnmbns
Mitchener, Jonathan
Schlicker, Frederick
Newborger, l\Iorris
Sharpe, Chauncey Oscar
Noble, Jesse Wadkins
Singley, Charles Edward
Norton, Samuel McElvain Steiger, Peter Joseph
Overton, William Meredith Sweed, Philip
Parrish, David Franklin . Taylor, Philo Ross

999

Thomas, Charles Edward
Tomasini, Louis
Tomasini, Mateo
Torr, Charles Lafayette
Tnpper, John Henry
Tattle, Samuel J obnson
Van Bebber, Peter
Van Marter, William Henry
Wakefield. Orin Lewis
Weston, Harry McCordy
Weston, Henry Little
Whiting, Henry Chester
Wickersham, Fred'll:An11:'tnM
Zook, Francis Kortz-103.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Percy, Me.noel Alvey

White, John-2.

WITHDRAWN:

Jones, Carroll

ARCTURUS LODGE, No. 180.
Petaluma, Sonoma County.

Sykes, Joseph Smith-3.

Smith, Asbury Gilbert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES;

Batton, Isaac Vail
Nichols, Thomas William

Spotswood, Andrew
Slayton, John Josiah

Phillips, Jacob William- r.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or ne:I:t preceding Fwll ~oon.
OFFICERS1

Frank Kavanagh Lippitt, Master,
Robert Henry Brown, Senior JJeaoon,
Edward Wm. Mervyn Evans, Sr. Warden, Tarleton Lee Orane, Junior Deacon,
William James Chesney, Junior Warden, William Wilder, Mar•ha.i..
Achille Kahn, Treanrer,
Jonathan Harvey Grabam, t Ste
d1
William Wade Obapman, Searetary,
Oscar Donton,
f war '
William Henry Darden, Chaplain,
James Singley, Tyler.
P&•t Maaters:

Benjamin Franklin Tuttle,
James Bingley,
Marcos Dyatheka Goshen,
Edward Spalding Lippitt,

Henry Pa.ine Brainerd,
William Roe Veale,
James Lockridge Dinwiddie, Lyman Green,
Lyman OByce,
Frank Kavanagh Lippitt.
?iUSTER MASONS:

Adams, John Quincy
Brown, Robert Spear
Hamilton, Mathew
Allen, Rufus Franklin
Campigli, Charles
Hasbrouck, Hiram Brown
Anderson, .Alexander
Chapman, WilliRm Arthur Haskell, William Barnabes
Baur, John
Heineken, Herman Albert
Collins, Frank Miller
Baxter, George Perkins
Connell, Oharles Henry
Hoag, James W.
Hopkins, Samuel Judd
Benson, William
Corlils, .Albert
Bernhard, Isaac
De Bernardi, Evaristo
Hnntlngton,HoraceHntch's
Dreyfu!ll!, Edward
Berri, Vitti>re
Johnson, John Eber
Bonnitti, Lnca
Giacomini, Natale
Lackey, Alexander
Bowles, Josepl1 Martin
Grandi, Salve.tor
Lapham, William Wallace
Brooks, Sylvester
Grant, Henry Delano
Lauritzen, Jeppe Christian
Brown, William Alexander Gross, Lndwig Lamprecht Lawler, John
Maclay, Thomas
Brown, ~illiam Eladsit
Grover, Benjamin Percy

•

RUSSIAN RIVER LODGE, No. 181.
Windsor, Sonoma County,

Stated ·Medinga, Saturday of or ne:i;t succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Charles Angoatna Pool, Master,
Thomas Miller Yates, Senior Warden,
Joe Dilley Yearger, Junior Warden,
Atlas Thompson Hembree, 7Tea1urer,
Andrew Jackson Hembree, Beoretar11,
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

Fred Artemas Emery, Senior Deacon,
George Rergher Sater, Junior JJeaoon,
George Tyler Trowbridge, Marahal,
James William Graham, l Ste rd
Hugh Alexander Rossell, f
uia '•
William Denton Looney, 7Yler.

Pa•t Maaten•

Edwin Harrison Barnes,
Benjamin Olark,
Thomas McQoistoo,

.John Leslie,
Wm. Adam FAtinghausen,
George Tyler Trowbridge,

Thomas Miller Yates
James Henry Laoghli11.

MASTER MABON~

Abshire, Alfred 0
Hoffer, Charles Angnstns Mitchell, Robert Thomas
Briggs, Frank
Kruse, J obn Auton
Myers, J a.mes Wilson
Briggs, Hiram
Langhlln, Grant Alexander Pool, Frank JohnRon
Calhoon, John Washington Legg, Amoa
Slosser, Martin Edgar
Duvall, Joseph James
Maddox, Lorenzo Dow
Walk, Edward Grant
Fulton, Thomas·
Mather, John
Wilda, George Edward
Hall, Rufus Lee
Misener, Albert Fillmore Young, John Sanford~39.
Higby, Locioe Lyman

•
Returns of ·the StibO'l'dinate Lodges

1000

[Aug. 1,

•
1896.J

To the Grand Lod,ge of Oalifornia.

1001

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Poch, August Frederick

Marshall, William

Wright, William Abonm-3.

CLEAR LAKE LODGE, No. 188.

8UBPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Lower Lake, Lake Coanty,

Barnes, Thomas Jamlson-1.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nu:t preceding .Pull Moon.

DIED:

OFFICERS a

Yates, John William-2.

Pool, Henry Jackson

Daniel Jones, Maaler,
Murdock Alfred Craig, Sen(or Warden,
Jamee Wesley Brown, Junior War!Un,
John Palatine, 7reasurer,
Luke Evans, Seoretary,'
John Naff' Crawford, Ohaplain,

Paat lllaaters a

MERIDIAN LODGE, No. 182.

Henry Harrison Wilson,
Wm. Harrison Cunningham,

Colle.re City, Colnaa Connt7.

Laban Hardin& Growell, •
William Jardin Clayton,

Daniel Jones,

MASTER .MASONS :

Stated Meaings, Saturdav of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Anderson, Joseph Henry Hughe, Henry
Rawson, William Boefield
Arbuthnot, Phil. StewartM. Levy, Morris
Small, James John
Morrell, Albert Fairfield
Bell, Joseph Eugene
Smith, William Henry
Brewer, Herbert William Pardee, Geo. Washington Snow, George Horace
Fleming
Horace
Parkes,
Hogan, William Mars
Stubbe, Charles-27.

OFFICERfil1

James Hamilton Sherer, Maater,
Charles Edward West, 8enwr Warden,
George W Moore, Juntor Warden,
J nlins Martin, '.&easurer,
John Henry Harpham, Searetary,
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

Francis Henry Mortimer Kelson, Br. Dea.,
Laban Harding Gruwell, Junior Dea«>n,
George Washington Wayne, MarBlial,
d8
} Ste
Hiram Kennedy,
war '
Henry Harrison Wiison,
Thomas Lorenzo Castellaw, fyler. ·

Cay Nelson Marden, Senior Deacon,
Solomon Loorya, Junior De.aeon,
William Jahn Stewart, Marshal,
Robert ~!kins, ' } St111Dardll,
Edwin Henry Peake, fyler.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OJI' DUES:

Blann, William-1.

Forbes, Georg-1.

Paat Maatera a

Jnlins Martin, .
William Jahn Stewart,

John Henry Harpham,
Cay Nelson Marders,

Francis John Steele.

SI~RRA VALLEY LODGE, No. 184.

MASTER MASONS:

Sierra Valley, Sierra eo-ty.

Locke, Charles Henry
Hafner, Emile Charles
Argyle, John Frederick
Betterton, Charles Albert Hassler, William Richard MoElroy, Jackson
Myers, John Henry
Israel, Frank Sherman
Botts, Thomas Allen
Johns, George Washington Peart, Edmund Francheville
Caln, Isaac Newton
Simone, Oscar Aognetns
King, Thomae Carroll
Davis, Joseph Addison
Tolson, William Dement
Knox, Ellis Landon
Decker, Jasper Newton
Vaughan, John Price
Levy, David Louis
Enter, John
Ward, John Cannedy
Levy, Marcos Eugene·
Gillaspy, John Robert
GIUaspy, Robert Cleveland Langenonr, John Hamilton White, John Cobb
Langenour, Raru.s Samuel Zumwalt, Marion-41.
Green, Samuel Francis

Stated MeeJingB, Wedneaday of or ne.:i:t prece,ding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Thomu Lebroke, Senior Deaoon,
William Cromwell Lemmon, Maater,
.Albert S Nichols, Junior Deaoon,
George Wood, Senfor Warden,
James John Millar, Marshal,
Jacob John Olsen, Junior Wardell,
i
Jared Strang
•
Linus Dolley, '.lreasurer,
Ambrose Ma~on Haselton, f Bte!DardB,
Maurice Pi-itohard, Secretary,
Joseph Johnson Berry (of North Star Lodge, No. 12, Richmond, Vt.), Tyler.
Paet Mastera a

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Allardt, Wiiliam
Brockman, John Henry

Cnmmifs, Thomas Jefferson
Meckfessel, George Ooward

Sherer, Dillon
Simmons, Jonathan-6.

Stewart, Charles Wbitley-2.

---

Eliphalet Lewis Case"

Arnold. George Ezra
Arnold, Herbert Bissell
Chandler, William Henry
Fox, Charles Pliny
Howk, Johnnie Simeon

Hubbard, Wilber Fisk
Nichole, Herbert Levi
Nichole, Herbert Osma
Olesen, Peter
Patterson, David B

W&llace Oscar Buckland,

MASTER MASONS 1

DIED:

Mitchell, Abram Redding

Edmund Higgins Hamlen,
Wm. Cromwell Lemmon,

I

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

37

Johnson, Julln-1.

Peck,'Willlam Ottnay
Rowland, Francis Marion
Simes, John Harrison
Toomy, John Shriver
Wilsey, John Frederiok-28.

•

1002

Returns of the Svlxwdinate LodgeJJ

[Aug. 1,

1896.)

'

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1003

MASTER MASONS:

CLAIBOR NE LODGE, No. 185.
Folnt Arena, Mendoelno County.

Statld Mutinga, Saturday of or nut prewl.ing Full Moon.
OFFICERS :

Lambert Lewis Archibald, Ma.ter,
Luther Readymeyer, &nior Deaoon,
Harold Phllbrlc Ohalfant, Ben. Warden, Eligha Bishop, Junior Deacon,
Robert Winthrop Wateroa, Jun. Warden, William Bascomb Haskell, Marlhal,
Antonio Stornetta, n-eaaurer,
John Orosby Lane,
} BtetDardl,
John Sayward Woodin, Secretary,
Joseph Orockett Halliday,
.
·Robert S. Baker Hathaway, Olaaplain,
Gabriel Johnson, Tyler.

Baird, Charles
Diggles, James Alden
Geney, Henry
Hansen, Hans
Hughes, James Robert
Hoghes, John Striker
Hoghes, Lewis

Lambert, Marshall Edgar Smith, George
Little, James Berkeley
Swain, William Cartwright
Loring, Frederick Hayden Taylor, Robert Pey
MeBBner, John Martin
Tonkins, James Bryant
Parker, Alexander
Wallis, Albert
Redemeyer,.Ohrlst'n Fred'k Wilson, Looios Stalford---:U.
Rastetter, George

FELLOW OBAFT:

EXPELLED:

Mitchell, George Henry-1.

Farrington, Stephen-1.
DlED:

Davidson, Jeremiah
Grant, John

Johnston, Lawrence H~slop

Nicolet, Oharle~.

P••t Maatena

Aaron Chalfant,
Soren Iverson,
William O'Connell,

Eogene William Callnon, Lother Readymeyer,
William Hascomb Haskell,
John Croaby Lane,
Joseph Orockett Halliday, Lambert Lewis Archibald.
MASTER MASONS:

Branson, Isaac
Grey, Nini!\ Edward
Brennan, George Pah'iok Horgan, William
Castle, Oortls Harvey
Jacobs, Wendell
Christie, Fred Absolem
Lancaster, Kemp
Oorlialey, Howard Raymond Lane, William Rnflls
Gilmore, Emmet Potter
Maloney, Samoel Jackson
Goodwin,Fr'oiB Willooghby Morrell, Hogh

Newfteld, Aaron
Perkins, Charles Edward
Phelps, Foreetos Percival
Randall, Henry Joshua
Wade, Sylva.nos Raynor
Whelpton, Charles-36.

KEITH LODGE, No. 187.
Gilroy, Santa Clara County.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or nea:t yeuding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

WITHDRAWN :

John Michael Einfalt, M.a61.er,
Edwin Jackson Bryant, Senior Deacon,
Henry Hecker, Senior Warden,
Oscar Thomas Moore, Junior Deacon,
George Edward Skillicorn, Jun. Warden, Samnel Thomas Moore, Alarlhal,
Jacob Reither, 7reaaurer,
Thomas Darroogh
l
John Frank Kimball, 811r1retary,
Edward Henry F~rmer, f Sward.I,
Charles Pierce Weldon, Tyl,er.

Spencer, David Lonk-1.

Past Maaten:

EVENING STAR LODGE, No. 186.
Ehla Milla, Shldyou County.

StaUd Mutinga, fourth. Satur4ay in Mch month.
OFFICER!ii t

John Howe Adams, Senior Deaoon,
Charles Wilber Notting, Maater,
William Thomas Dawson, Sen. Warden, Charles Jenner, Junior Deacon,
Alexander Parker, Jr., Junior Warden, Fred George Smith, Marlhal.,
John Parker,
Charles Wliliam Kist, Treasurer,
l Btmaards,
Edwin William Bathorst, f
Martin Marx, Beorelary,
Walter Isaacs, Tyler.
Past Masten•

Martin Marx,
John Wa.llace McBride,
Orson Valentine Green,

Charles William Kist,
Charles Wilber Notting,
Fred. George Smith,

John Howe Adams,
Edwin William Bathors.,
George Commings Spooner.

John Mathew Keith,
John Michael EinfeJt,
William Henry _Haydock,

Edwin Jackson Bryant,
Thomas Darrongh,
Harvey Chapin Morey,

Oharles Pierce Weldon,
Samuel l'homas Moore,
Edmond Joseph Bennett.

• MASTER MASONS :

Babb, Silas Gratton
Fay, James Frank
Lewis, Abraham
Bradley, John Harrison
Frost, Irwin
McCray, James
Bryant, Berryman
Hells~rom, Carl Axel
MoDnftie, Henry Lynn
Chesbro,Bereland Rodgers Hickman, Ise.ao
Massie, Isaac Green
Ola.rk, Jonas
Hinman, Ashbell Green
Moore, Walter Scott
Oole, Amos Granger
Howard, Volney
Moont, Maloolm
Comins, Oooper
Jones, Albert
Molreed, Thomas
Cordes, Pao! Henry
Keaton, George
Pettit, William Wallace
Dnnlap, George Thomas
Kilpatrio, Samoel William Phillps, George
Edwards, John Chandler Leeper, William Clark
Pruett, James Irwin
Eschenberg, Herman Rod'y Lennon, Mark
Pyle, William Robert
Eostis, Albert
Lewis, James William
Rea, George Elmer

•

1004:

'

Return& of tM Subordinate Lod,ges

[Aug. l,

Welburn, Oscar Marcellus
Tully, Pleasant Briton
Rea, James William
Wentz, George Adam
T11rner, James Beaton
Rea, Samuel
Willey, Howard
Sargent, James Alexander Tryon, Ambrose Brnen
Wolrrom, Adam
Vaughan, George
Smith, bidney Henry
Wardel!,Benjamln AugnstnsWoods, Joseph Calvin
Stayton, Robert Glover
Wright, James-69.
Wat.eon, Alexander
Tnlly, James Anderson
DIED:

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Otto, John George-1.

Morrie, John-1.

OAKLAND LODGE, No. 188.
Oakland, Alameda Count7.

Stated Muting1, jir1t Saturday in each month.
OFFJCERS1

John Oharles Dnnne, Ben~r Deacon,
Gilbert Barber Daniels, Mallitr,
Theo. Freylinghnsen Mock, Jun. Deacon,
Zachary Taylor Gilpin, Senior Warden,
David Walter Standeford, Marahal,
George Henry Smith, Junior Warden,
l steuxJrdi,
James Lenox Mayon,
Damien Edmont Fortin, 7reaaurer, ·
Charles Nelson Waiter, l
Alvah Kltt,edge Clark, Seoretary,
- - - - - - , Organist,
William Bowker Ingersoll, Ohaplain,
Charles Edwin Gillett (of l"Y Lodge, No. 39~, Elmira, N. Y.), TyZ..
Pallt Ma•ten 1

Nathan Weston Spaulding, Howell Aabrey Powell, Oha.rles Frederiok Ott,
l!'lnoch Homer Pardee,
Fred Lawrence Bntton, Walter Van Dyke,
Edward Harrison Morgan, Joseph Alonzo Wiswell,
William James Gurnett,
George Cooper Pardee, Geo.Clement l'erkias, P. G.M.,
Je88e Walton,
Alvah Kittredge Clark,
John Hereford Keroheval, Moses Eadon,
Oscar John Willis,
William Frank Pierce,
Nathan Benedict Hoyt,
Samnel Willis Chabbuck.
Thomas John O'Keell'e,
George Patterson,
MASTER MASONS:

Brown, Albert
Abbey, Riobard
Black, Joseph
Bruce, Samuel James
Abel, John Jaoob
Blethen, James Edward
Barcba.rd, Leoaidas Boule
Bones, Samuel West
Abel, William
Burnham, Charles Franklin
Adams, John Smalley
Boniface, Henry Clark
Burpee, Joseph Solom"n
Alexander, Louis Leander Booth, Luoias Anson
Burpee, Lester Glean
Allardt, George Frederick Borland, Archibald
Borns, John William
Anderson, Willia.m Wilson Brabban, Dixon
Baker, Alfred Septimas
Bradford, Alonzo Sylvester Burrell, Alfred William
Banks, Charles Wells
Burtcbael, George Thomas
Bradley, John Tilford
Bartlett, George Clinton
Oampbell, Fred'ck McLean
Breed, Arihnr Has~ngs
Cantin, Augustus Samuel
Bartlett, Reary Snow
Britton, John Alexander
Benner, Ha.rry
Broadwell, Melvin Lather Carpenter, Tom
Child, Edward
Betts, William Michael
Brooks, William Edga.r

•

1896.]

'

'lo the Grand Lodge of CaUfomia.

1005

Meade, Calvert
Gappy, Alonzo Russell
Clalrviile, Walter
Hadley,Marquis de Lafay'te Merrill, Isaac Newton
Ollft, !"rederiok Charles
Merritt, Albert Humphrey
Haines, Ellis Ashbnry
Collier, J oho Henry
Miller, Ohas. Wm. Joachim
Hale, William Elmer
Collins, David Edw&rd
Concanon, William Norton Hamilton, William Thomas M!11er, Frank Thomas
Bandy, Brayton Everington Miller, Harry Halstead
Corrigan, John Sinclair
Miller, Thomas Irvine
Cowley, William Ashline Handy, Lncins Harvey
Miller, William Henry
Harmon, John Brown
Crafts, Henry Gray
Hawkett,Arthur Wellington Miller, William Noble
Craig, Albert William
Mitchell, John· Henry
Bayes, Daniel Edward
Craig, William Henry
Morry, Niollolas
Henderson, John Henry
Crellin, Thomas
Monson, Arthur King
Heron, Ernest Alvah
Curtis, John
Naismith, James Semple
Hewes, Charles Leslie
Ooshing, John
Nelle, William
Hewes, Oharles Wesley
Dalziel, Robert
North, Hart Hyatt
Hill, Robert Lewis
Davie, John Leslie
Hoffman, Charles Frederic Nonrse, Stephen Henry
Davia, William Rode
Osgood, Ernest J.
Honriet, Lncien
Degen, Rodolph Phillip
Parry, Thomas Hendry
Howard, John L
De Golia, George Ellis
Patterson, Alexander John
De La Montanya, Mathew Bowle, Thomas
Patterson,Edward Mortimel'
H11ghes, Joha Jones
Dewey, Alfred Timothy
Pearce, Richard
Humphrey, Morton
De Witt, James
Bundley, E11gene Russell Pearoe, Webb Nicholson
Diok, Byron Coleman
Pedriai, Cipriano
Dingee, William Jackson Hant, GEJorge Henry
Perry, Joseph Joshna
Bunt, Thomas Edward
Dodge, Ezekiel Goddard
Pierce, Edward
Irish, Bpenoer Kline
Donovan, Neal
Poulter, Charles Thomas
Jansen, Ole
Donn, Alexander
Pratt, Albert Barl1w
Dasinbnry,MyronThompson Jasper, Oscar Wood
Pratt, Daniel We bS\er
J ohndon, Ellis Crowell
Earl, Guy Chaffee
Pnlcifer, Henry Willis
Jones, Herbert Ellis
Eber, George
Rand, Hall Bergin
Jones, Richard
Eber, John William
Randall, Obarles Wells
Judson, William Francis
Emery, Joseph ~tickney
Ransome, Ernest Leslie
Kipps, Alfred Kemble
Evans, Tali~ien
Raymond, Van Renselaer
Knowles, Edwin Irving
Everson, Wallace
Koser, Newton Alexander Redding, Albert Pntna'm
Fairchild, Jndd Hobart
Remillard, Peter Nicholas
FergllSon,Ernest Maltravers Laidlaw, Alexander
Richmond, William Preston
Fischer, Charles Frederick Laidlaw, Walter
Ro'ach, James Vincent
Lathrop, Solomon
Flint, Elijah Train
Rodolph, Francis Bequette
Fowler, Doaglass Thomas Lawrence, John
Leckie, Robert·Btevenson Roeth, Charles
Fox, Oharles Nelson
Rosenberg, Nathan
Lindner, Charles
Fraser, Hagh
•
Rowe, Albert
Loring, Geor11:e York
French, Asa Telford
Rntherford, Chas. Boardm ' o
Lowden, William Beron
. Frey, Eagene William
Macdonald,J.Aroh.Camp.b 'l Salkeld, William I
Friend, William Hovey
· Manael, George Wa.shlngton Schaackey, John Daniel
Gage, John William
Gage, Stephen Thornton Martin, George Washington Sherma.n, Edwin Allen
Sheridan, Martiu
Mathews, Walter J
Gibbons, William Peters
Matbiesen,JoakimBernhard Shorey, Albert
Gifford, William M
Matthiesen, Dioues Hansen Shortill, Walter
Gilbertson, Joba
McFadden, Thomas Henry Simpson, Joseph H
Gilman, Samuel :Meiggs
MoGown, Chas. Mastersen Skinaer, laaac Ash
Gray, Roscoe Spaulding
Smith, Albert Lippitt
McLeod, John Campbell
Greenbood, Jacob
McMaban, Morg!\n Strange Smith, William Cla7
Gunn, Adam Francis

1006

Returns of the Subordinate LodgeJJ

[Aug." l,

Souter, John
Twombly, Charles Henry White, James Stevens
Whitehead, James
Spaulding, Nathan Walter Upton, Mylon William
Spence, Aaron Tindle
Visher, Charles Putnam
Whitney, Frederick Eugene
Stone, Louis Stanwood
Vogt, David
Wilberg, Ernest Nicholas
St. Pierre, George
Von Hirsch, Sementi Julius Wilcox, Walter Cary
Voorhees, Frederick Duane Williams, John
Stnrgis, Frank Fanning
Williams, John Edward
Sturtevant, Cullen Kitt'dge Waldron, Vernon
Swanberg, Eric
Walker, Lysander
Wilson, A(lelbert
Taggart, Grantham Israel Walker, Wilber
Wilson, William
Taylor, Albert Miles
Walker, Wilber, Jr.
Wise, .Melvin
Taylor, Samuel Johnson
Walter, Edwin Nelson
Wise, Raphael
Wise, Thomas Clark
Templeton, Jamee
Waltz, Charles ·
Terp, Jeff Everson
Ward, Robert
Wolf, John William
Tesheira, Lewis
Watson, Franklin Greenville Wythe, Joseph Henry
Todd, James Hamilton
Webber, Mack
York, Charles Banon
Towle, John Francis
Weilbye, William Hansen Zimmermann, Jacob-276.
Treadwell, John Bartlett Wentworth, Ira Martin .

Collins, Albert Frank

Crane, William Whitefield

Harrold Milton Ross,
Frederick Dersch,
Erastus Edward Rawlings.

Atkins, Quintus Narcissus
Baker, Lewis Edward
Bass, Herbert
Bateman, Charles Edgar
Benton, Leonard Timothy
Crabb, James Nelson
Cotter, Henry Hill
Darrah, Bennie
Darrah, Joseph Smith
Dunham, Almon Nathaniel
Eldred, Stephen James ·
Green, Charles Henry

Holl, Sylvester
Smith, Louis Clarence
Hoster, J,oois Frederick
Smith, Samuel Gaston
Lippoldt, Herman August Taylor, John Zacharia
Love, Franklin Reading
Thatcher, Alexander
Martin, Henry Lee
Thatcher, Ezekiel Thomae
McBroom, Alva
Thatcher, Mark Carr
Ogburn, John William, Jr. Vilas, Marcellus Bain
Ogbnrn, John William, Sr. Wagoner, Erastus
Pullen, William
Webb, Abraham Lincoln
Sheridan, Adelbert Oscar Wimmer, James .Moses
Sheridan, Geo. Washington Witherow, Samuel Newton
Bimpson, Thomas Jefferson
-50.

Green, Myron

Hathaway, John William

Henry, Ashman Cooke-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Everett, Edward-3.

Wilkinson, Felix Grnndy--3,

RESTORED:

Benton, Leonard Timothy

WI;THDBAWN:

"'

Edward Armsted Martin,
AI be rt Frederick Rosa,
Joseph Albee Dunham,
MASTER MASONS:

ENTERED APPBENTIOEI!:

Allen, Benjamin Budlong

1007

Paat Maatera 1

Herman Frederick Ross,
James Fletcher Winsell,
James Levin Nichols,

FELLOW ORAFTS :

Bll.iley, George Heard

To the Grand Lo<lge of Ualifornia.

1896.J

McCloskey, Charles Jamee-2.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Blodgett, Joseph Henry-2.

WITHDRAWN:

DIED:

Blodgett, Joseph Henry-1.

Ball, Charles Jerome-1.

Glover, Robert-I.
DIED:

Archibald, Francis Albert
Batchelder, Jamee
Crellin, J oho

Hoagland, William Cox
Holcomb, William Austin
Pinkerton, Thomae He.milton

Reichling, Francis
Von Borate!, Jo'.hn-8.

MARIN LODGE, No. 191.

NORTHERN LIGHT LODGE, No. 100.
Milhllle, Shasta County.

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS•

Erastus Edward Rawlings, .Malter,
Harrold Milton Roes, Seni.or Deaaon,
Geo. Washington Thatcher, Sen. Warden, Ferdinand Horst, Junior Deaoon,
Daniel Thomas Sheerin, Jun. Warden,
Frederick Dersch, .Marshal,
William Adkin Smith, '.lreasurer,
Joseph Albee Dunham, l Stewards,
James Levin Nichols, Secretary,
Joseph Turner,
f
Herman Frederick Ross, Ohaplain,
Jacob Daniel Overmyer, 1}/lN.

I

San Rat'ael, Marin County.

Stated Meeting•, Wednesday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS I

Robert Furlong, Master,
David Fearing Nye, Senior Deacon,
William N Anderson, Sent.or Warden,
Charles Wm. Henry Koerner, Jr. Deaaon,
William Gladden Corbaley, Jr. Warden, William Elliott, Marshal,
Benjamin Wendell Stndley, '.lreasurer, Milliard Filmore Grove, l Stewards
Francis John Jacobs, Becret.ary,
Edwin Gardner,
f
'
Thomas Siah Bonneau, Ohaplain,
Valentine Golde, 1}/ler.
Past Masters:

William N Anderson,
Benjamin Wendell Studley,
Frank Marion Angellotti,

John N JjJ Wilson,
William Elllott,
·Thomas Siah Bonneau,

James Saunders,
William Henry Hill.

•

1008

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

(Aug. I,

To the Grand Lodge of Oal.ifornia.

1896.]

1009

MASTER MASONS :
MASTER MASONS :

Abbott, Wm. Henderson Grosjean, Camille
Powers, George Herman
Reed, John Joseph
Adams, Walter Miller
Beilfron, Bernard
Alexander, Riobard S
Henderson, Frank William Schlosser, Henry
Schlater, Henry Arnold
Alexander, Thos. Newton Jepson, Henry
Angnstine, Samnel Miller Jones, William Farrington Schroyer, Aaron
Scott, George
Barr, William
Ke.neen, John Stevhen
Shaver, Charles Bird
Bonnetti, Joseph Robert
Knittel, Henry
Le.nck, Joseph Benje.min Smith, John Glover
Bngbee, Joseph Henry
Taylor, Frank Lincoln
Byrne, James Douglas
Le.nlf, Oscar Benjea
Cle.nssen,P.Helnrich Cars'n Me.goes, Robert
Taylor, James Irving
Codoni,Ginseppe Abbondio Mason, George
Taylor, Will Penfield
Wilkins, James Hepbnrn
Crompton, Hezekiah John McLean, James Thomas
Dollar, Robert
Morrell, George Herbert Williams, Peter
Morris, James
Fish, Charles Hnll
Wreedon, Carl Van-60.
Pomeroy, C~rter Pitkin
Greer, John Lawrence
FELLOW ORAFTS :

Mager, Richard

Gnstafsan, Charles-a.

Partee, Benje.min

ENTERED APPRENTIOE:

WITHDRAWN:

Silveria, Felix Anguato-1.

Lyon, Wllllam-1.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bettaucnrt, J oho Enos

La Franky, Joseph-2.

Foster, Marion Sohm
Norway, William Henry
Atlee, William A.ugnstns
Frnnklin, Gideon Edward Ott, Adam
Balch, Edward Thomas
Paddock, Edgar Lnzern
Barker, James Lawrence Fulton, Robert
Pierce, William Wheeler
Garland, Harry Steel ·
Bates, Charles Bell
George, Edgar Sherman Pratt, Edward Baker
lloeseke, Albert
Ralfonr, Lonie
George, Thomas
Bowen, Riche.rd Alfred
Reeves, Irwin W e.rren
Breslauer, Theo. Mathews Gerow, William Sperry
Rogers, Herbert Angnstue
Gibbs, Albert Wyman
Burson, .Joseph H
Henderson, David Roes
Shives, Alexander
Borton, William Waples
Sqnier, William Brasted
Casebeer, Joseph Wilson Heyl, John Christian
Hixon, George Clinton
Tarr, Charles Wesley
Cook, George Gilbert
Holloway, John Martin
Taylor, John Brutus
Crawford, Angustine
Jacobs, James Harvey
Tebbetts, George Parrish
Daniels, Thoma~ Payne
Westenberg, Cbarlee Albei t
Dimock, Harry Clinton
Kilgore, Moat Molden
Wilson, Albert Calhoon Jos.
Loomis, Ira
Ellery, Henry
Menzel, William
Winchester, Robert Fulton
EniB, Fostin
Metcalf, Winfield Bradbury Woode, Harloe Delay-76.
Faber, George
Nelson, Jamee Miles
Findlay, James
FELLOW ORAFT:

BUSPEND:U:D FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Thayer, Walter Francis
Lehman, David leQ.ac-1.

•

.

Ge.ty, Edward W. (L .A..)-1,

FERNDALE LODGE, No. .193.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara <Joanty,

.

Whitney, D L-2.
DIED:

SANTA. BARBARA LODGE, No. 192.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday succeeding FuU Moon.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE:

Leland, George Walter-I.

Dorgan, William-I. ·

Ferndale, Humboldt <Joanty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt succeedtng FuU Moon.

OFFl<JERS1

Ol!'Fl<JER81

Clarence Crosby Knight, Master,
Mark Thompson, Senior Deacon,
William Arthnr Wilson, Senior Warden, Che.nncey Elemnel Webster, Jun. Deacon,
James William Tagge.rt, Junior Warden, Chnrles Henry Kelton, Marshal,
Eli Rundell, 7Tllasurer,
Jos. McCnllongh Garretson, l 8tt1Wardt1
Alfred Bascom Williams, Secretary,
Charles Oscar Garretson, f
'
Edward Gardner Dodge, Ohaplain,
Daniel Moyer, 7Yler.

Osoar Dnnwreath Whittier, .Maater,
Frank Hanley, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Armitage Shaw, Senior Warden, Richard Roland Williams, Junior Deaoc>n,
Ray Henry Edwards, Junior Warden,
Elbridge Chamberlain Damon, Marshal,
Zelotas Kingham Patrick, Treasurer,
John Tbompson Pollard, l Stewara.,
Doa Alonzo Robinson,
f
John Henry Trost, Secretary,
David Stillings, 7Yler.
- - - - - , Ohaplain,

Past Maatera 1

John Peck Stearns,
Rollin Dunshee,
Jacob Joshna Eddleman,
Charles Henry Kelton,

Albert Perham Hardy,
Oliver Perry Squier,
Angnstus Carl Sobnster, John Kennedy Harrington,
Edward Gardner Dodge, Samuel .Manchester,
John N Hiller,
John Osborn Ee.ton.

Pa•t Maatera 1

Elbridge Chamberlain Damon, William Dexter Capwell,
Philip Seward Iuskip,
Frank George Williams,
Ira Alonzo Buss,
John Henry Trost,

38

John Edmon Foster,
William Isaac Webster.

1010

Returns of the 'Suborrl;i,nate Lodges

[Aug. 1,
1896.]

MASTER MASONS:

Alford, William Brazilia
Hnnter, Walker
Barnes, Isaac Bloomfield Jordan, George
Blakemore, John Ward
Kemp, John Wellington
Carr, Edward Baker
Kerfoot, Joseph
Christopherson, Andrew 0 King, John Rossell
Olark, George Washington Loveland, Albert
Comisto, Silva
Miner, Leander Haskins
Cook, Charles Sage
Morrison, Lafayette
Devinney, James Mark
Morrison, Silas William
Patrick, Giles
Doe, Charles Albion .
Patrick, Marshall
Fulmore, Mark Andrew
Fulmore, Smith
Price, Isaac
Golf, James Henry
Rasmnssen, Jacob
Reese, Levi Lincoln
Hall, Thomas Jetl'erson
Hansen, Henry August
Renfro, David Kenada
Hart, Smith Ole.rk
RichardA, Th!Jmas
Herrick, George Arthur
Ring, Hogan, Jr.
Hicks, Leonard Salmon
Robarts, James Thomas

Roberts, David Richard
Rodgers, James Davis
Samuels, William
Scotton, Steve Wayne
Siples, r,onis Jnstin
Smith, James
Smith, Lacina Miles
Smith, John Milton .
8tevens, Rnfns Willard
Stillings, George Hntchinson
Sweet, George William
Sweet, John Albert
Swift, Sidney Bonrne
Varley, Edwin
Waddington, Alexander
Woolridge, Wm. Van Rens'r
Woolridge, Trnman Eugene
-10.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

RESTORED:

Dunlap, Benjamin Fnlton-1.

Kemp, John Wellington-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Hunnicut, Ezra

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1011·

MASTER MABONS:

Apperson, Elbert Clark
Gordon, George Olareuoe
Gorton, Barton Hezekiah
Baggi, Cassimir Scossa
Barker, Curtis Mason
Hansen, Nelson Jorgen
La Piere, George Warren
Charleston, John B
Chnte, Edbert Schuyler
Martin, James Dickason
Cole, Wallace D
Marvin, Charles
Crittenden,LeviAlbertMilt. Mockbee, Jacob S
Dnoray, Frank Justin
Rengstorll, Henry Andrew
Emerson, Frank Lincoln

Showers, James
Snyder •. John
Ste.vens, Marcns Harloe
Swall, George
Towne, Peter
Weilheimer, Aaron
Weilheimer, Jnlins
Weilheimer, Samuel E-4-0.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Babcock, Geo. Washington
Ferioli, John

G.i.tes, Charles Obed

Parkinson, John Franois-4.

DIED:

Henderson, Henry Merrill

Hincelot, Ferdinand B

Jones, Caleb Valentine-3.

BUCKEYE LODGE, No. 195.

Michael, Robert Richard-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES 1

DIED:

Mills, Orren-1.

Dudley, Green Grov-1.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Arthur Baldridge lab, Master,
Thomas Jackson Crane, Senior Deaoon,
Edmond Johnston Englebard,S. Warilllll, William Brinck, Junior Deacon,
William Henry Giegory, Juninr Warden, Daniel Huston Waughtel, Marshal,
Robert Lee Briggs, 7Teasurer,
Geo. Washington Hutchens, l Stewards,
William Sims, Secretary,
Harens Oscor Wyatt,
f
Charles Henry Wolf, 7'1ler.

MOUN'DAIN VIEW LODGE, No. 194.
Mountain View, Santa Clara County. .

Stated M8ding11, 'l'ueaday of or n8%t preceding Full Moon.

PA"t llla11ter• 1

Henry 'Abraham Bill,
Thomas Walter Gnthrie,
Micajah Oglesby Harding,
William Sims,

George Wesley Hill,
Edward Wolfskill,
George Thompson,

Joseph Clark Hulse,
David Eisner,
Perley Johnson Aiken.

MASTER MASONS :
OFFICERS:

Cyrus Philbrick Berry, Master,
Ernest Le Roy Berry, Senior Warden,
Houkan Trnlsen, Junior Warden,
Madison Monroe Kleckner, 7reasurer,
Benj. l"ranklin Whittemore, Beurmary,
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

Daniel Benjamin Frink, Senior Deaoon,
Harry Bnshbeck, Junior Deacon,
Henry McCleary, Mar11hal,
Henry Weilheimer, l Stewardll,
John Jay Cntter, f
Andrew Jackson Dexter, 7Yler.

Past Masters 1

Henry McCleary,
Wm. Freeman l"arrington Foss, Oscar Crellfn Morgan,
Cyrus Philbrick Berry.
William Anstiu Whitmire, David Taylor Bateman,

Brinck, Henry
Bµsted, William Joseph
Ireland, Elias
Button, Henry Le~lie
Camp~ell, John Calvin
Maxwell, James Oliver
Fenley, Noah Bedsworth McFall, Theodore Ebert
Griffin, John Frank
:Moler, John F.
Harlan, William Christian Morrison, Robert
Hoy, Major Samuel Hensly Nevin, Neil
Hntchens, John Pace
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Po~ell, Alex~der Qnaw-1.

Rice, Andrew Rice
Robinson, William Henry
Sac:kett, Baell R
Seely, Mack Jay
Shackelford, James Henry
Shearer, Levi
Shirley, Samuel Crittenden
-42.
WITHDRAWN:

Baker, Philip Samnel-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Steward, Jonah Porter

Yount, George Walter-2.

1012

[Aug. 1,

Returns of the Subordinaie Lodges

1896.]

1013

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.
Paet Ma•teru

George Hinds,

SAN SIMEON LODGE, No. 196.
Cambria, San Lui• Oblapo County.

Slated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt prer.eding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Alexe.cder Paterson, .Maeter,
John Ridley Nott, Senior Deacon,
Antonio Luchessa., Senior Warden,
Mark Antony Vanoni, Jun. Deacon,
William Bia.Ir Arbnckle, Junior Warden, Frederico Ge.mboni, Alarshal,
Philip Ke.etrel, 7reaeurer,
Angns McFerson Hardie, } SIRwa.rds
Se.mnel Gnthrie, Secretary,
Adolph Frankl,
.
·
' ·
Ritner Dodson, Tyler.
Past Master• I

Se.mnel Gntbrie,
Angns .McFerson Hardie,

George .Mix Cole,
Ritner Dodson,

Peter Toane.zzlni.

Mascio, Guiseppe
r,oriog, Ed we.rd Payson
. Loll, George We.shington Music, Ethelbert David
Oliver, Joseph Soares
Minor, Robert Andrew
.Mnme., Benjamin Franklin Trace, .Meritt Roscoe
Watson, Je.s. William-28.
Mascio, Abra.mo

Arbuckle, James Smith

FELLOW CRAFTS :
Woodson, Jamee Drnry-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICF.B:

Eubanks, John Henry-2.

Davidson, Stephen Morgan
WITHDRAWN:

Andrew Young,

MASTER MASONS:

Allen, Gabriel
Jacoby, Herman
Pearce, Ira
Jacoby, Nathan
Anderson, Niels Olof
Reed, Robert William
Clinton, Willis Pemberton Johnson, Gast Ferdinand Rice, Calvin
Kennedy, Silas Ely
Colman, Edwin W.
Schroeder, Johan F
Crain, William Lncien
Keyes, Charles George
Sjoberg, Chas. James Wm.
Crook. Henry
Lawyer, Ila Calvin
Smnrr, John Randolph
DeJansere.nd,Nicholas John Lieshman, William H.
Stewart, George
Dry, Wilson Joseph
Markle, Richard
Strom, Fred Nestor
Venable, Pierce Samnel
McCoy, Oscar
Ferrier, Francis
Wetzel, Martin
MoCrea, John
Forsberg, Frederick
Garrett, Robert Lundeford McDonald, Edward Nath'l Wheeler, Stephen James
Young,Edwe.ra Evere&t-62.
He.yes, Thomas Bishop
Millen, William
Hill, Randolph William
Moulthrop, Wiley Howard
FELLOW CRAFTS :

Curry, George Joseph

MASTER MASONS :

Campbell, James De.y
Case, Henry Kingdon
Eobe.nks, Pe.trick Henry
Fischer, Me.x ·
Jones, Albert Lincoln

James Hfllaey Dodson,

He.lbeck, Hans Peter-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Marie., Juan De

RESTORED:

Smith, Troles-2.

Beed, Robert William-1.

AFFILIATED:

Rosecranz, Ephraim-I.
WITHDRAWN:

Bailey, Henry Clay
Clewett, Chester 0
Dillon, Henry Clay
Kingcade, Russell
Lightbnrn, John F.

Lowe, William Wallace
.Monaghan, Francia
Mitchell, Charles Edward
Morrison, William J
Polhamus, ..1.lbert Alex.

Bosecranz, Ephraim
Sohilling, William
Vandenburg,Robert Benton
Warren, Robert Boyle-a.

Ce.porgno, Virgil-I.

WILMINGTON LODGE, No. 198.
Wlbnlft8'ton, Los Aneelea County.

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or ne:x:t preuding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Dl\Dlel Banda.II Clay, Malter,
Benje.min W. Edelman, Beni.or Warden,
Benton McCoy, Junior Warden,
Joseph Perry Sylve., 7hasursr,
Albert Ferdinand Hult, 811uretary,
Alexander Fre.eer, Oh.aplain,

Augustus Medores.He.rter, Sen. Deacon,
Frederick Schweiger, .Junior Deacon,
Joel Ade.ma, Marsh.al,
- - - - - - , l Stewarda,
William Henry Savage, f
Johan August .Mathias Koster, 7yler.

HARTLEY LODGE, No. . 199.
Lakeport. Lake County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fu.ll Moon.
OFFICERS: .
Cl~r~nce Wil~iam Kellogg, Master,

Winslow Lester Rideout, Senfor Deacon,
Wilham Gtddmgs Fnrber,Se11ior Warden, Lonie P edrazzini Junior Deacon
David Williams, Junior Warden,
Morton Smith Sa~re, Marshal, '
George Welton Myers, Treasurer,
Aaron Levy,
}
Herbert Ven~ Keeling, Secretary,
David Hooper Atherton, BtewaNb,
George Wasnmgton Mallory, Ohaplain, Samuel Finley Sylar, Tyler.

1014:

Returns of the Subordinate Lodg(!,8

1896.l

(Aug. l,

Adolph, Juline
Giffen, George Washington Moody, John Fairfteld
Balder, Wiiliam
Glidden, Oharles Edward Ohland, Heinr'b Fred. Ernst
Bird, James
Gowling, Joseph
Perkins, George Jerome
Booth, Jed Gibbs
Grant, George Hngh
Peters, Fernand Wm., Jr.
Bnrckhalter, Walter Marion Hardman, Clinton Marion Rabe, Angust Lonie
Cahill, Thom88
Hilton, George William . Richardson, Geo.WB81ting'n
Champion, Francis
Bntcblnson, John T
Richardson, Warren
Champion, Josiah
Jacobs, Herman Hiram
BntherforJi, Frank Mitohell
Ohandler, Rossell Hooter Irish, Fred Albert
Schnelder, Adam
Capples, Samnel
Kinney, Edward Story
Schnelder, Peter GoUleib
Davis, Llewellyn
Lavena, Stephen
Short, Charles Thomas
De Bernardi, Giulio
T..6ach, David Walter
Shnte, John William
Donn, Henry George
Lewison, Jacob Louis
Spaulding, William Rafus
Darno, Wyatt Collier
HoCarnock, John Ezra
Steen, Nathaniel
Dunster, George William
McDonald, John Joseph
Stewart, James Alexander
Dutcher, Willard Perry
McLellan, Charles Roderick Whitney, Thomas Byron
Fay, John
Meloohe, Frank Tancred Wilkie, William Ferdinand
Frey, Franklin Joseph
Mlcander, John
Yoong, Lelllartin Wilson
Geery, Wilson William
Milbury, George
-7',

Joseph Andrew Tinker, Angelo Biggi,
Morton Smilb Sayre,
Cartie Jeft'erson Monroe.
MA.STER MASONS :

Baroert; Obarles
Force, George Haynes
Boggs, Lilbnrn Henry
Fraser, John Kay
Brown, Jamee Humphrey Gardiner, Thomas
Brown, Henrv Nathan
Green, William Woode
Borger, John Fleming
Hayoock, Thomae
Byrnes, John Warner
Hayter, Thomas Fletcher
Carpenter, Ira Mahlon
Henderson, Lewie
Chamblin, Marcus Rich'eon Hamphrey, Hiram Abift
Oharmak, Herman
Kelsay, John
Clemensen, Peder
Kelsay, John Sidney
Collier, William Bell
Leagne, James Neal
Copeland, Lawrence
Lewl8, Hiram James
Craig, Joseph
Manning, Ernest Lemuel
Cramp, Richard William
McLean, Daniel
Edmonds, Joseph Fleming
FELLOW ORA.Fr:
Olsen, Andrew Billman-I.

¥eddangb, Oscar E.
Miller, Guy
Minstrell, George William
Nicoll, Daniel Oox
Rantz, William Dodridge
Scbortgen, Nicholas
Simmons, Leeson Gaskill
Sleeper, Ed
Sylar, Daniel Patton
Tallman, Rafus Calvin
Todd, Frank Ridgeway
VanDeventer, Geo. Waah' ton
Wood. Alfred Newton
Young, Williaqi IJaylord
-60.

FELLOW ORAFr:

ENrERED APPRENl'IOE:

ENrERED APl'RENTIOE :

Longstreet, Robert Alexander-I.

Taylor, John Henry-1.

Lavey, Marion-L
.RESTORED:

RESroRED:

Byrnes, John Warner

1015

MABrER MASONS:

Past Masters 1

Woods Orawford,
David Vernoi Thompson,
George Washington Mallory,

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

Mast, Charles Leienr

Chandler, Russell Hunter

Tallman, Rnfns Calvin-S.

Dnrno, Wyatt Collier-2.

WITHDRAWN :

WITHDRAWN :

Balaban, Andro
Hettenhausen, Lonie

Mast, Charles Leiaur-;l.

Luitonberger, Michael

Vaa Horn, Walter Boone

nmn:

-"-

Oasp.ir, Bamnel-1.

TRUCKEE LODGE, No. 200.
Truckee, Nevada County.

Stated Meetings, Thursday nezt preceding Full Moon.

SILVEYVILLB LODGE, No. 201.

OFFICERS•

Dixon, Solano Count;r.

Daniel McPhetres, Maaur,
Willard Peck Calkins, Senior Deacon,
Irving Francis Harvey, Senior Warden, Morris Franzini, JunWr 1Jeacon,
David Shoe1Daker, Junior Warden,
Joseph Dearborn Hilton, Mar11hal,
James Sherritt, 1haaurer,
John Sherritt,
Ste1Dardll
Charles Thom88, Bsr:retary,
Charles Seigel,
'
William Henry Hill, 7Yler.

f

Past Mastera 1

Oharles Henry Barton,
Joseph Marzen, Jr.,
George Shaft'er,
Obarles Fayette McGlashan,

William Henry Hill.
William Park,
Samuel Parker,

Samnel Smith Ferg1,1aon,
Jo ho Sherritt,
Daniel McPhetres.

Stated Meeting11, Saturday of or nut preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

John Devano Grady, Ma61.er,
Seligman Goodman, Senior Warden,
Robert John Corry, Junior Warden,
J oho Henry Rice, 1rea.urer,
George UJsteeo, Secretar!J,
-

-· - - , Chaplain,

Charles Martin Kirby, Senior 1JttatJOA,
George Arthnr Little, Junior JHacoa.
Bobt. Edmond Lee Stephens, Marlhal,
John Rightmire Madden, l Stl!IDartb
Harry MoFaydeo,
f
'
John Alex. Campbell< Thompson, 1}/lsr.

•
1016

Returns of the Stth<Yrdinate Lod,ges

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

William Henry Gu.rneU,
James Edwin Apperson,
.Toho Henry Rice,

MASTER MASONS :

Abbay, John Alexander
Gallagher, Thomae
.
Agee' Christoph. Colomboe Garnett., J nmee st_. ()lair
Bu.ker, William
Gu.tee, Thomas Miiton
Clarke, Crawford Calvin
Grove, John Calvi?
Correy, :Montgomery Soott Johnson, John DWinell
Downes, George McClelan Kline, Joseph
. .
Donoho,Charles C11mbridge Martin, Jam.e~ Ph1l11p
' Duprey Aogoetoe Frede'k McBride, W1lltu.m Zeph
Ettling~r' Bernhard
McCone, Henry Ewaldt
Fer neon, Wm. Redmond Newman, Chu.rles Henry
Fra:m, Clans
Nodd, Elmer Ellsworth
Fraser, Glllivray
Plnmmer, Charles Henry

Pritchard, Jn!l&n Peter
Richards, Charles Robert
Rierson, Robert Lee
Rockwell, Myron Salsbury
Rogers, Thompson Gilbert
Ross, Albert Thomas
Rossell, Francis Evia
Schure, Oscar Carl
Steinmiller, George
Timm, Henry R
Ulsteen, J obn G
Wright, Oren--66.

PENTAL PHA LODGE. No. 202.
L09 A.ncele., Lo• A.nirele• county•

Stated Muting•, third Monday in each month.
OFFICERS•

Charles
Wesley Blake, MaU",
_
___

Senior Warden,

1

Jacob ·Marion Deeter, Junior Wardell,
Joline Herbert Martin, 7reaaurer,
Willlam Whipple Robinson, Secretary,
Robert Nelson Bolla., Ohaplo.in,

1017

MASTER MASONS :

Past Mastera ·t

Benjamin Franklin Kelly,
J oho William McFadyen,
Joseph Henry McCone,

William Henry Wells,
John Sweany,
Henry Ackson Ross,
Herman Eppinger,

To the (kand ~e of OaUfornia.

John Francie Hnghee, Senior Deacon,
Fru.ocis :Mu.r!on Parker, Junior Deacon,
Jerrett Wu.It.er Cole, Marsh.al,
William Rhodes Hervey,
~ BtewardM,
William Kenyon MoFeeley,
Milton Cephas Fordham, Tyler.

p aat lllaatera •
Samnel Scott Sallsbnry,
Edwin
Lopton,
Frank Leoouvreor,
Stephen Lacy Pritchard, Robert Miller Parcels,
wm. Whipple Robinson,
John Alexander Donnell,
George Varcoe,
Charles Wilson Bosh,
John W Hinton,
Henry Joseph Lloyd,
J oho Dustin Bicknell,
Levi Newton Breed,
Enzema Clarence Bower,
Granville Qoincy Stewart,
George Andrews Blakeslee, Charles Te~bs Pepper,
Francie Asbury Gibson,
Jacob Bamch,
Andrew N1oholl~,
Simon Stoll,
Lemnel Clarke McKeeby, Jamee Henry Miller,
Charles Henry Dunsmoor,
Micajah David Johnson,
Oscar Edward Grnbb,
.
William Adams Morgan,
Cummins Butterfield Jones,
Jreby B arrow, ·
.
Joline Herbert Mu.rtln,
II
Daniel O'Connell :Miltimore, Thomu.s Wllhu.m Wa u.ce.
J oho Amos Kingsley,
Cornelius Welles Pendleton,

Arnold, George Leonard Diiiy, Loni&
Bolton, George :Mortimer
Atwell, Thomas
Downie, William
Hongh, William Arthur
Axtell, Chu.l'les Henry
Dnncao, Hugh Welch
Honse, Melancthon
Aylesworth, Walter Eugene Duncan, Robert Dingwall Honse, Radcliffe Frank
Bair, Darius H
Earl, Edwin Tobias
Howard, John Friend
Baldridge, Taylor Russell Eberle, Franz Xaver
Howard, Perry Alonzo
Barclay, David Eric
Eddy, Frank Cowan
Howard, Wm. Woolworth
Barnes, Charles Porter
Edwards, Alfred Haonibal Howe, George Fru.nk
Barrow, Thomas Martin
Edwards, David Kitzmiller Howry, Charles De Forest
Beloher, Harry
Ellis, Morris
Hubbard, Albert Allen
Bemis, W Frank
Fanning, John Bole
Hodson, Josiah Whitcomb
Bennett, Albert Alfred
Farmer, Frank Henry
Innes, Daniel
Blinn, Willis Nehemiah
Fergerson, Will Lee
Irvin, Frank Arlanda
Bodman, Richard Steuart Fergoson, William
Israel, William Lewis
Boothe, Charles Beach
Fitzgerald,Frederick James Jackson, Charles
Bothwell, James
Flint, Charles Newton
Johnson, Isaac Holl
Bowen, Calvin Gase
Ford, George O~car
Johnson, John Smith
Brown, John Alexander
Francisco, John Bond
Johnston, Jas. Harrison, Jr.
Brummett, Simon Jones
Freeberg, William Alronso Jones, Leonard
Borns, John
Farrey, William Cobbett Jordan, Franklin
Borns, John Appleyard
Gibson, Edward David
Jody, James Howard
Champlin, Henry
Gilh11m, William Thomas Keeley, Edward Ellaworth
Charnock, Charles
Glu.sR, Henry
Keffer, John Henry
Chase, Charles Wheeler
Grable, Charles E
Kincaid, Eugenio Hongh
Church, William James
Grah~m, Robert John
Knickerbocker, Niles
Clark, Asa Allen
Griffith, James Anthony
Knopf, Siegmund Adolph
Clark, Henry Graham
Grove, Moses Payoe
Knotts, Harry Hope
Clark, William Hovey
Grnbb, Edwin L
Koepfli, Joseph Otto
Clemens, Nicholas
Grymes, George Anderson Kost.er, John
Cochran, William George Hagenlocher, Reinhold
Kuhrts, Jacob
Colby, Oharlee Warren
Haines, Rnfne Rowe
Lampton, James Lewis
Cole, Andrew John
Haines, Thornton Griffith Lankershlm, James Boon
Conradi, Simon
Hall, Charles
Lawrence, Joseph Martin
Coaper, Henry Hnll
Hu.milton, Albert Newell Leake, Edward
Cottle, Rainsford Ensor
Harding, Charles Wesley Lembcke, Charles Ernest
Conlter, William Henry
Harding, William George Lester, William George
Cru.wford, James Seth
Harman, William Cronlse Livermore,Philarmon Pat'n
Crawford, John Henry
Hart, Frank John
Lotspeich, Rhoten Flem'ng
CreBSman, Allen Grove
Hartup, Edmond
Lnndberg, William
Onnningbam, Rob't Gilmore Hu.skell, John Coodit
Lother, Clarence Howard
Cnzner, James
Hayes, Lonis Angnstns
Maoleod, Malcomb
Davis, Charles Sanford
Hayward, John
Madden, Michael Henry
Day, Charles Edmond
Heartt, Charles Lu.wrence Marble, Byron Monroe
Day, George William
Hellman, Herman Wolf
Martin, Russell Clinton
De Oamp,Olarence Eastman Henderson, John Armstrong:Matheson, John Lother
Devins, Charles Alonzo
Hetherington, Isaac
:Matthay, Charles Herman
Deyoe, Fred Theodore
Hewitt, Randall Henry
:McAllister, Frederick Henry
Dezell, James
Hiller, Horace
McCallnm,Cyrns Alexand'r
Dibble, Edward
Hiller, Sidney Warner
McColl um, Frank Elwin
Dieckmann,Ohristlan Fr'd'k Hoffman, John Keyes
McComu.s, Charles
Dillingham, William Henry Holmes, William Taylor
McOonnaohie, John

39

1018

Returns of the Svl>ordi'l}-ate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Sntherland, Edward Paine
McDaniel, Abner Granger Reinhart, J oho Graves
Tallman, Isaac Taylor
Renshaw, Fred
McKenzie, Charles Bell
Retzer, George.Washington Tebbetts, Hiram Watson
McManie, John Rodman
McMillan, Isaac Alexander Reynolds, Elbert Wilson Teed, Matthew
Thomas, Beoj. Franklin
Richards, William John
Miller, Reed Gilbert
n, Phil Sheridan
Thompso
Robert
Righetti,
Andrew
Jaa.
Montgomery,
Tolbert, John William
Rinaldi, Carl Robert
Moody, Joseph Donahey
Tompkins, Edward Payson
Ritch, Joseph Royal
Moore, Alfred, Jr.
Ritter, James Alexander Townsend, Emory Lorenzo
Moore, Milton Green
TreBSlar, Elkanah P
Robertson, Andrew
Morford, William Edwin
Tront, John Henry
Rohrer, John Bonewitz
Morgan, Thomas F111ler
Rowan, Valentine Jamee Valiant, George Francis
Mnlford, Shobal Patton
Van N11ys, Ieaao Newton
Rozell, Albert
M11rray, John Emmett
Verner, Jamee
Rossell, William Henry
M11rray, John Henry
Victorson, Berman
Salisbury, John Caleb
Myers, Henry Lane
Vignolo, Ambrogio
Santee, Milton
Myers, Robert Holtby
Wackerbarth, Ang11st
Sawyer, William
Nenh"rt, Daniel, Jr.
Wadleigh, Geo. Hutchinson
Nicolay ,Ferd.Francie Lonie Sayre, Linus Newell
Walker, Daniel Henry
Mason
Calvin
Seeley,
William
Noble,
Senseney. Anthony Emory Walker, Thomas Eaton
Orr, Benjamin Franklin
Ward, Oreao Alexander
Settle, John
Osgood, Josiah Alonzo
Warren, Pickett Latimer
Overton, Gilbert Edmond Shelton, Harry Ashton
Benjamin Oliver
Webb,
Stephen
Andrew
Shorb,
Henry
Thomas
Omam,
Wedemeyer, Wm. George
Shriver, Thomas Milton
Page, Samuel Lester
Wedgwood, Cha~les Herbert
Simonds, Frank Kinley
Parrish, Henry
Welle, Louie William
Simons, Edward
Patterson , Henry
Simpson, John Armstrong Whedon, Willard Loring
Pease, Niles
Wheelan, Frank M
Pendleton, William Henry Sippy, William
Wheeler, John Oziae
Sla11ghter, Joh~ Louis
Peel, Bryant Lareodo
White, Arthur William
Slocum, Albert Gardiner
Perry, John Sargent
White, Caleb Edwin
Smart, Carlos Levi
Perry, William Hayes
White, Chas. Esm'd Jeffries
Persons, Charles Morrison Smith, Benjamin N
Whomee, Joseph
Smith, Everett Roeeell
Phelps, William Rees
Wilmaos, Henry Stickney
Smith, Henry Anguetos
Phibbs, George Philpot
Wilson, Christopher North ·
Smith, Ira Bacon
Pickit, Daniel
James
Wilson,
Theodore
William
Smith,
Nelson
John
Pierce,
Wolfsklll, Milton
Smnrr, Charles Franklin
Platt, Robert Stark
Wood, Fred W
Spear, Samnel Dnnn
Plotts, Thomas Mitchell
Woods, William Thomas
Stanley, Henry Young
Polaske, Lewis ·
Woodworth, J9hn Joseph
Pomeroy, Abraham Ehle Stead, Charles
Worden, Champion Graves
Stein, Fred William
Powers, Lother Milton
Wright, Charles William
SteJJhenson, George
Proctor, Samuel John
Wright, John Gibson
Stewart, William
Purvis, John Robert
Wright, Wesley Arnold
Rawson, Edward Lincoln Stone, Alanson Jeddiah
Yonng,Samnel Alexande r
Stombs, Thomas Allen
Register, Henry 0
-333.
Monroe
David
d,
Sutherlan
Reid, Frank Edwin
ENTERED APPRENTICES:
Armstong, Robert Bartholimioue Garnier, Camille
Brenner, Jacob Henry

1019

WITHDRAWN;
Moore, Sid11ey Boward
King, Edm11nd William
McAllister, James Pinkerton Shiffier, Levi
Styles, A11guet11s Parker- 9.
McDonald, D11ncan
DUES:
OF
MENT
NON-PAY
FOR
ED
SUSPEND
Hinman, Clifford Irving
Davis, George Henry
Bowen, Calvin Case
Dowling, James Nelson Weber, Wm. Caspar Benry-7 '
Blrowkn,W~obert R11f~
ar , 11lard Berman
DIED:
.
k, Geo.Washington Lightner, Daniel Wesley Rogers, William Spencer

Booty, John Addison
Carter, Juline !fooeou
· Cook, Bertjamln

C

Hollen~eo

I

-3.

CONF IDENC E LODG E, No. 203.
c ..tro'Ville, lllon&er ey Coan&y.
State,d Meetings, Saturdav oj or nex~ preudin g Full Moon.
OFFICE RS:

Lewie Atherine Gatten &n· D
Joseph Northrop, Master,
Charle~ Rose Whitcher, Senior Warden, John William Grimes juni:J )e=n,
'
Pearl Raymond Bro~n, Marshal,
T?~mas Butler, Junior Warden,
Oh~les Francis McDonald i
Vier.or Delmar Black, 1r11aaurer,
Jamee Francis McDonollgh'. f .Stewards,
Thomll8 Prince Labree, Secretary ,
B11tler Albert Newton, 2}/Zer.
Paat lllaatera :

Andrew Peiiln Potter,
Joseph Northrop ,

Charles Francie McDonald,

William Botton.

MASTER MASONS :

Brown, Clinton Edward
Chappel, Thomas
Lang, Frank Horbert

Oakes, Frederick Orrick
Potter, William Edward
Skilf, Herman Albert

Stokes, Amoe
Uttley, George- 21.

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, Lonie Olio Perry Horton- I.

SALIN AS LODG E, No. 204.
Salin.., Mon&ere y Coan&J''o

Stated Mutinga , Saturday of or ne:i;t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICE RS a

Rossell, John Newton -4.

·RESTORED:

Hollenbeck, Geo. Washington
Bpwen, Calvin Case
Farrey, William Cobbett Keeley, Edward Ellsworth

To the Grand Lodge oj Oalifornia. ~

1896.J

Kincaid, Eugenio Bough
-6.

Arthnr Johnson Abbott• &mi.or ])Bacon,
Francie Alvin Abbott, Ma1ter,
0
Th
0
G
Charles Alfred Forster, Junior Deacon,
Warden,
uenior
ompsoo,
rane
eorge
Truman Enos, Marahal,
John
arden,
Junio1·W
Thomas Clay Edwards,
l
Thomae Renison,
Thomas Scott Mabel, '.freaaurer,
James Ashley Webster, f Btewardl, ,.;
Berman Sam 11els, &oref,a.ry,
William Henry Benson, 2}/lllr.
- - - , Ohapklin,
-

· 1020

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

1b the Grand Lodge of Oalif<Ymia.
E'a•t Maatera a

Paat Maaten a

William Victor McGe.rvey, James Ashley Webster,
Francis Alvin Abbott,
William Vanderhorst, .
Ulde.rico Hartnell,
Oliver Smith Trimmer,
John King Alexander,
Oe.rlisle Stewart Abbott,.· Henry Edwin Stalford,
William Jay Hill,
Andree. Messina Norton,
Bradley Benjamin Chandler,
ManassesJ.GroveSmeltzer, Frederick Wm. Bchmechel, John Trnme.n Enos.
Nathaniel Lynch Allen,
Arthnr Johnson Abbott,
MASTER MASONS:

Abbott, George
Gordon, Samnel Bnftlngton McCandless, George Linley
Miller, George Sinclair
Abbott, Harvey Eldon
Graves, James Elbert
Acworth, John
Harris, James
Newlove, Joseph Harle
Bltcboook, Benjamin
Nissen, Christian
Anderson, Andrew Wm.
Boey, John Os.ins Frank
Archer, Samuel Milton
Pierce, Samuel Cissel
Ball, Henry Seymour
Hoftinao, Henry
Porter, John Brewer
Bee.tty1 James
Hopps, Francis Jacob
Por~r, Robert Lindsay
Je.oke, Perry Martin
Rowling, John Wendie
Bennett, John Barron
Bookofeky, Henry
Jackson, Alexander Bell Sattrini, James
Oayer, Ovila
Jepsen, Jacob
Scott, John B
Chamberlin, Obs. Grandisen Joy, Charles
Silacci, Batisti
Joy, John Green
Dean, Silas Lucius
Snyder, Jacob
De Groat, Edward
Joyce, Willis William
Swenson, Christian Severin
Te.ft, William Henry
Doncan, James
Kalar, David Gilmore
Faw, Thomas Felix
Kellogg, Edwin Delos
Thompson, Jamee Danforth
Faw, George Eogene
Knowlton, Joseph
Tnttle, Charles l;rirkbam
Koenicke, Adolph
Tynan, Miehe.el
Fenton, Edward
Vanderhurst, Wm. Miehe.el
Fleming, William Tingle
Logwood, Wm. llln.yfield
Forman, William Bishop
Logwood, Se.moel He.11
Wiedemann, Alfred
Foster, John Adame
·Martin, William Jell'ereon Wldeme.nn,Frederlck Henry
Foster, John He.nil.al
Menor, Jamee Ore.wford
Winham, He.rry-87.
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Hawkins, Harrison Mills-2.

Day, Frank Bee.rdley

WITHDRAWN:

Brokaw, Elmer Zell-1.
SUSPENDED FOB NON°PAYMENT OF DUES :

Hnrre.y, Wil.lie.m John-:!.

Ransford, Franklin Pierce
DIED:

Hoffine.n, Christian-1.

NEWVILLE LODGE, No. 205.
Newville, Glenn County,

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS&

Samuel Stephen Markham, Masl81-,
Albert Nutton Smith, l:leni.tir Deaoon,
William Franklin Rupert, Senim' Warden, Stephen Monson Corringtop, Jun. Deao•>n,
James Franklin Ellls,Junim' Wardm,
Orlando Arthur Borrows, Marshal,
Htl.ry Alvin Scribner, '.lreasurer,
lse.e.o Daniel Lace,
l stewardll
William Renry Markham, Secretary,
Jacob Styles Dobbins, f
'
Hiram Green, Ohaplain,
Andrew Jackson Wheeler, 7)/ler.

1021

Francis Honghton,
Stephen Smith Gllman,

William Oeoar Nelson.

Rufus Goetavns Borrows, .
MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, William Samoel Hull, Daniel Mosier
Johnson, John William
Dexter, Samoel Stodley
D~llloge, Wm.We.ebingtoo Knight, Henry D
l>yer, Zimri Parker
Logan, Allison Robert
Markham, David
Evans, Aaron
Finnell, Bush
McKinley, John
Foreman, Benjamin Frank'n lll:tller, William Barton
Friday, Michael
Osborn, Sullivan
Hartford, John William
Prioe, John Robert
Hayward, Martin Haynoo Prioe, Stephen Howard
Holderer, John
Scribner, Batter Koowlee

Scrlbner,Jobn Alex. Th'no'
t:!mith, John Galbraith
Snelling, Gilbert M. L.
Steuben, Henry William
Stevens, David R
Stockton, Gabriel Sutherlin
Tbnrston, William
Uhl, George Washington
Williams, John
Winten, Sterling Price
Wright, Geo. Epbralm-49.

STANISLAUS LODGE, No. 206.
Modeato, Stantalau11 County.

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or n~t pr~ceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Rossell Stoddard, Maalkr,
Willlam Henry Hatton, Senwr Deacon,
Walter Benjamin Wood, Senior Warden, Thomae Elam Baker Rice, Junior Deacr,n,
Obarles Henry Griffith, Junior Warden, Amoe Chilton Lander, Marshal,
James Carson Yeedbam, l Stewardll,
Gabriel David Plato, 7haBurer,
Newton Edward Leek, Secretary,
Alexander Meyel',
f
George Stepp Goeftert, 7}/'61·.
Past Masten a

Elihu Barritt Beard,
Walter Benjamin Wood,
Chas.Lewis Adolphus Hewel, Loring William Fulker$h,
William Henry Hatton,

John Edward We.rd,
George Russell Stoddard.

MAijTEB ll{A.SONS:

Alexander. John Stewart Dettelbach, Jnllos
Monrot, Julian
Andrews, Richard
De Yoe, Nathan Emllry
Parvis, Richard Benjamin
Bmiley, John Valentine
Dorant, James Alvah
Riggs, John Stewart
Balley, Robert Cowert
Elder, Robert
Ripperde.n, leaao
Beard, Thomae Kennan
Hli&s, Solomon Philip
Root, Milton Bordette
Sorensen, RaYmns Andresen
Benham, Joseph Marshall Folkerth, Asa Shin
Hall, William Wheeler
Speuker,Jos. Theo. Ohristian
Bledsoe, Willis
Broyles, Se.moel Weaver Harp, James David
Stooe, Walter Scott
011.meron, George Wash'too Hartman, Lewis Clinton
Stonesifer,ClarenceAogost's
Hayter,Abraham LaFayette Vogelman, Heory
Dale, William Copeland
De.oat, William· Ed ward
Jamieson, And'w Robertson Voight, Heory
McHenry, Ore.mil
Davie, Franklin Collins
Weyer, Gostavoe Adolphus
Meinecke, Edward
Davis, James Alfred
Wbithy,~'reeboro GarriS"on
-6'.

1022

Returns of the Subordinare Lodges

1896.]

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand lixl,ge of OaU/ornw.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Elmore, James Gordon

Bangs, Vitel Emanuel
Crow, Lewis B. S.

Pa&t lllaater• 1

.Thomas Powell Emigh,
Edward Charles Dozier,

Gatlin, Elijah ll ~nry- 4..

William Borrows Pr11BBley,
Anson William Elliott,

Matthew Stewart,
Adam Davis Glace.

WITHDB.AWN I
MASTER MASONS :

Wright, Christopher Colombos-2.

Ewden, William

1023

Ohorcb, Albert Oolby
Obnrob, Mark Israel
Corrie, Alexander
Davis, Herman
Footman, Henry Edward
HAdley, Samuel Trnmboll
Hansen, Andrea Edward

DIED:

Spencer, John ~illon-1.

Harvie, Robert Alfred
Johnson, Fred' k Christiao
Kelley, Albert Gallatin
Kranss, John Obarles
Lindsay, Orville Andrew
McCall,George Alexander
Robinson, John

ANAHEIM LODGE, No. 207.

FELLOW CRAFl'B:

..
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next prueding J!'v1l Moon.
Anaheim, Oranare County,

OFFICERS1

William Thomas Brown, &m. Deaoon,
Henry William Obynoweth, Malter,
Philip Aokley Stanton, Jun. Deacon,
Sidney Holman, Senior Wardera,
William MMcFadden, Mar1hal,
Henry Adelber~Stoogh, Jun. Warden,
l Stewardll,
Edwin Barr,
William Morris Higgins, 7'reamrer,
- - - - --, I
Joseph Helmsen, SecrelarJI,
Austin Pendergast, Tyler.

Sobow, Niels Anderson
Smith, John Edward Turner
Stanton, Jed Clark
Talbert, John
Weckwortb, Aognstos
Williams, Robert Timothy ·
-83.

Christensen, Martin

Nickol, John Robinson-2 •

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Mills, M:yron-1 .

•

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Laird, Robert Josiah

Miller, Josepb-2.

Paat Maatera1

Henry William Chynoweth.

William M McFadden,

MASTER MASO:NS :

Amer!ge, Edward R
Amlin, John
Bacon, Jonathan Edward
Olark, ~orge Crook
Darling, Truman Andrew
Gardinel', James Smith

Henderson, Wm.Hutchison Sipe, Charles Elmer
Sooden,OscarMay Spurlock
Johnson, F. W.
Weid, Ivan Alexander
Korn, Frederick Aogost
Krebs, Ferdinand Riobard Wood, Charles Henry
Wrede, Henry Charles Paul
McKnight, L. O.
-2T.
Saalwaechter, Pau!Ohrist'n

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

DIED:

Northam, Robert James-I.

Abbey, Adolphus Tbustin-1.

KING DAVID'S LODGE, No. 209.
San Lula Oblapo, San Lal• OblaPo County.

Stated Meetinga, Wednuday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Charles Orrick Johnson, Senior .Deaoo11,
Ralph Parker Sntliffe, Master,
Harry Ewen McKennon , Senior Warden, Frank Pozzo, Jr., Junior D11aoon,
Simon Hempel Hansen, Marshal,
Kaufman Green, Junior Warden,
- -- - --, l
Pietro Benedetto Perfnmo, Tnaaurer,
_ _ _ _ - - , I Stt111Jards,
Henry Loobliner, Beoretary,
Andrew Williamson, 'l'l/ler•
Pa•t Maaters 1

RIO VISTA LODGE, No. 208.
Rio Vlata, Solano County,

Stated Mlltinga, 1'ueaday of or nezt preceding .Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Henry Albert Johnston, Senior Deacon,
Thomas Powell Emigh, Maller,
Edward Charles Dozier, Senior Warden, Mortimer Robert Dozier, Junior Deaoo11,
Philip Jacob Everley, Junior Warden, William Jarvis Emigh, ,llar1hal,
James Hamilton, l SletDardB
William Burrows Pressley, Treasu.rer,
'
I
Miltoo Emigh,
Matthew Stewart, &cretarg,
Peter Francis Avey, Tyler.

Levi Rackliffe,
George Breck Staniford,
Michael Henderson,
Frederick Adams,
Phillip Francis Ready,
Fred Adolphus Dorn,
William Williams Rays,
Benjamin Brooks,
William Harrison Spencer,

Alphonse Wash'n Steinhart,
Charles Alson Farnum,
Robert Edgar Jack,
Joseph Henry Beaton.

MASTER MASONS:

Albertoni, Nicola
Ballon, Stephen Donglas
Barger, Deni! Edward
Bassi, Jeo
Beck, Hiram Jefferson

Brown, Warren Bateman Crooker, Adolph
Bromley, Chester Jerome Crocker, Jacob
Oall, Samuel Johnson
Dallldet, Pierre Hypolite
CaBB, James
Filliponi, Dlonigi
Cerf, Ernest
Fredericks, J osepb

1024

Returns of the Subordinate Lodg_eB

[Aug. 1,

Freeman, George Adelbert Luar, Isaac
Remick, Amos, Couch
French, Horace Wellington Lasar, Marena
Robbins, Fred k Olmstead
F,Y, Pleates
Lattimer, Beojamia Griffith Russell, Charle~ J~y
Garrison, Daniel Marcus
Levy, Isl\ac l>aniel
Sandercock, .Wilham
Gilbert Mathias
Lewis, Jesse
Schwartz, Ia1de>r
Gladst~oe, Barton Jackson Maxwell, Charles
Schwartz, William
Uoldtree, Morris
McCoy, George Watson
Short, James Blake
Goodrich John Arthur
Michael, Geo. Washington Shutter," Frederick
Greenber~, Meyer
MioBBi, Bernardo
Sinsheimer, Louis Felix
Barkinson, Robert
Netter, Nathan
Story, George
a ·olf, Marona Jacob
Nichols, George Bnrrit
Sntolllfe, Hamlet
.
Hollister John Hubbard
Noah, Lonie Meyer
Thompson, John Horatio
Jack Fr~d B
Noah, Meyer
Toir:nazzinl, Antonio
Joh~ton, BoRea Holcomb N~ttal, Reginald William. Tomasslni, Louis
Kay, Ernest James
Ortega, Jos~ del Carmen Tnoker, Ira Ward
Knight, William
Patten, Joseph Albert
. Vachell, Horace Annesley
Koshland, Max Isidore
Peterson, Oharles William Vollmer, Edw~d
Lake, Herman Wingate
Phillipa, Ohanncey Hatch Warden, Horatio Moore
Lasar, Emanuel
. Reid, Tbompson
Wblcber, .Tobn-94..
FELLOW CRAFTS:

Baley, William Berreman- 2.

CorbeU, John

ENTERED APPBENTIO ES :

Wightman, .John-2.

Thornton, Francis William
DIED:

Unger, Arnold-1.

FRIEND SHIP LOD.G E, No. 210.
San Jome, Santa Clara Count7.

Stated Meetinga, firat Thunday in each month.
OFFICERM 1

John Thomas Coyle, Malter,
Delos William Smythe, Sllftior Deacon,
Dennis Vincent M.aboney,BenlorWarden, Augnstus Wm. Rodolph Serr, Jr.Dea,con,
George Wuhington Worthen, .Jr. Wa.r ., Langdon Cheves Gordon, Marshal,
George Butterfield McKee, 2relt8Urer, Frank Page Barker,
} Stewards,
Lemuel Job Chipman, Seureta.ry,
Albert Jackson Battee,
William Oharles Kingsbury, Ohaplaira, Lewis Amiss Spitzer, Tyler.
Paat llla•t.e r• 1

Samuel Alphonso Barker,
William Henry Hollis,
Joseph Albert Lou,
Lemnel Job Chipman,

William Oharlea Kingsbnry, Perley Francis Gosbey, ·
William Henry Clark,
Peter Long,
Hiram Jerome Ball,
William Larkin Woodrow,
Langdon Obevea Gordon.
Leslie Squire Orcutt,

1896.J

To· the Grand Lodge af Oal:ifi>rnia.

1025

MASTER MASONS :

Allen, Charles Herman
Ginty, William Maurice
Owen, Olifl'ordJerome
Anderson, Oharles Wallace Gorr, Charles Henry
Pallesen, Christen
Bacon, George Graham
Gray, Albert Maywood
Perrin, Thomas Abram
Bailey, Lamartine Edward Groves, WllliamFre nch
Perrin, TCady
Barker, Charles Alfonso
Hall, Jay Pierce
Porter, Daniel Jewett
Bangs, Fred Herbert
Halsey, Edward
Potts, John Samuel
Bedrow, Asa
Harlem, Henry Jacob
Pratt, Leon&rd
Bennett, Augustus Griffin Harrie, Jamee Thomas
Purinton, Byron
Bodley, Thomas
Batman, Frederick David Pnrintoo, Stephen Larayette
Boynton, Joshua Trask
Haynes, Aaron Jefferson Reeve, Oscar Joel
Bragg, George Henry
Heckenroth, Louis
Riehl, Adam
Brandenberg, Geo. Wash'n Hines, George Emory
Rogers, MorganProthens
Briggs, John Gregg
Hogg, Henry Clay
Rogers, William James
Broedel, Michael
Howe, William B
Ross, Fred Cary
Broch, Louis
iohnaon, Jonathan (}
Rnssell, .l."rank Pelatiah
Bruner, Henr.y Smith
Johnston, .Joseph Newton Schroder, Alben
Burt, John James
Jones, Harry Ellsworth
Secord, James Kirby
Cambers, Joseph Benjamin Kennedy, William Charles Shively, Reuben Otis
Carling, Edward
Koob, Valentine
Shoemaker, Frederick
Chambers, Seymour
Ladd, Oscar T
Shumate, Albert E
Chandler, Charles Alonzo La'llrock, William Henry ·Singletary, Emory Cortis
Chipman, William Fitch
Lee, Robert Alexander
Smith, Bradley
Olayton, Edward William Lenzen, Theodore
Spiuer, Frank Easterday
Cook, Joseph Wheeler
Lewis, Hiram Elisha
Spring,HenryMayo Newhall
Conlter, Will .A
Lighthall, George Elisha Sqnler, Heman Grey
Coykendall, Jonathan
Lindner, Charles U.
Steele, Davia
Cozzens, Geo. Washington Lipsett, Isaac
Steiger, Louis Adolph
Oraodall, Albert Whitman Low, William
Stern, Frederick Harens
Curnow, James Rossell
Lnneford, Lewie Monroe
Stevens, Orvis
Davie, Andrew Jackson
Machefert,J ean Marie Leon Stevenson, Richard
Davis, Daniel McDonald
Main, Earl Paine
Stone, William Bonlogne
Dittos, George Benjamin Mantz, Warner Henry
Thlmano,BernbardtConrad
Dittus, John Jacob
McAfee, Andrew Finley
Thompson, Thomas
Drexler, Henry Otto
McComas, Rosh
Toney,John Martin
Easterday, John Davis
McConnell, RobJlrt
Tooker, Simeon Edward
Edwards, Henry W,Uliam McDongall,Gilee Eggleston Van Dorsten, Henry Orvis
Eiber, Edward John
McGary, Nathan W
Walthall, Jeter ·
Entriken, Benjamin Funk McNeil, Albert Beebe
Warring, Franklin Bertrand
Farrington, Archibald
McWilliams, And. Shannon Welch, George w
Finlay, Samuel Henry
M.cWllliams, James
Whitehurst, George Artbor
F~ber, Jobo Edward
MeBBing, John Henry
Whitehurst, .Joel Shipp
Fisher, Thomas
Monroe, Joseph Albert
Whitehurst, Thomas Weldon
Fitzgerald, George Lee
Montgomery, Thomas 8
Williams, Charles R. .
Fleming, George Alexander Moreland, Samuel Edgar Williams, Edward
Fox, Abraham D.
Mnrgotten, Alex. Phillip Williams, Thomas Northey
Geer, Albert Warren
Northern, William Leander Wilson, Lewis Benjamin
Gillespie, Walter Weir
Osgood, Marlon Hudson
-161.
BJCSTOBED:

Halsey, Edward

Hansen, Peter Aodreu-2.

40

•

1026

&turruJ of the SUbordinate Lodge,s

1896.]

[Ang. 1,

WlTHDBAWN:

•

Singletary, James Emory
-6.

Mocker, Andrew
Scott, Joseph Harry

Brosius, Henry Conrad
Hansen, Peter Andreas

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN;

Kent, Sylvester Elmer-I.

Speegle, Andrew Jackson-1.

Baker, Reuben Joseph

Jefti'ies, Martin-2.
DIED:

Pawley, Oasper-3.

Gee, William

1027

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

l:IUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Ashmore, Matthew Jamison

'Io the Grand Lodge of California.

Eppenheimer, William_:l.

DIED:

Oasley, George Washington

Vale, William-2.

•

.
SAN BENITO LODGE, No. 211.
HolU.ter, San Benito County.

Stated Meetings, Saturdav of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Christian Otto Lauritzen, Senior lJeaoon,
Eugene Elsworth Bolton, Master,
Francis Newton Hitch.cock, Br. Warden, William Paa! Townsend, Junior Deacon,
Nash Corwith Briggs, Jr., JuniorWardM, Nash Corwith Briggs, Mar1ha1.,
• William Hubbard, l Bteward.8,
fleylin Beaumont Harrie, Treasur11r,
Robert Praxedes Stephenson, Bearetaf")/, Frank E Shore, ~
George A Black, Ty'l8r.
Felix Samuel Thomae, Ohaplain,
Paat M••ter..

Robinson Rackl!dge,
William Guilford Lee,
Francis Asbnry Canning,
Nash Corwith Briggs,

Wilhelm Peter Steinbeck,
John Adolph Steinbeck,
Harry Coleman,
William Pascoe, Jr.,
Jamee Henry Tebbetts.
Georie Wapple,
Jndson Gerould Hamilton,
MASTER MA.SONS :

Parker, Joseph
Hodges, James I
Asher, William Clayton
Baldwin, Thomas Lankster Hollingberry, William Vose Peck, Charles
Phillips, Frank Harry
Ladd, Leonard March
Barker, Lewis ·Harmon
Pon.d, Hiram
Linderleaf, John P
Black, William Walter
Porter, George Cooper
Logan, Sanford Erwin
Clay, William Thomas
Rosenberg, Marcos
Oole, George Washington Lowe, John Thomas
McConnell, Geo. lllont'y Shaw, George Eden
IJoleman, Bernard
Shaw, Roderick
McCray. Harry Walter
Ooy, Arthur Henry
Shore, Rioha!'d Elijah
McDonald, Daniel
Crow, William Jasper
McPhail, Dan'I F. Havelock Skow, Peter Christ. Laarid'n
Dalzell, William Francis
Snibley, Jacob
M.oatgomery, Edward B
Floyd, Benjamin
Montgomery,Granv'e Bona. Tonn, Adolph
Freels, Samuel 0
Wagn'er, Charles Henry
Nash, Francis Orlando
French, Theodore Hngh
Wagner, Hiram
Frenzel, Erdman Aagast Nash, Pontlllba Lavique
Walberg, Lare Erick
Nye, Jacob
Green, Alfonso
Wells, Stillman Timothy
Ottolini, Lodovico
Hamilton, Fred Judson
-71.
Hardin, Amos Marshal

l

SOUTH SAN ,F.aANOISOO LODGE, No. 212.
!!ian Franci•co, San Franclaco Count.Ti''.

Stated M_eeti'ngs, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Adolph Frederick Fitscben, Mast6r,
Parker John Ashford, Senior Warden,
Charles Frank Kispert, Junior Warden,
James Smart Bailey, 7Tea1urer,
Elias 0 Hare, 8ecretaTJ1,
George Thomas Shaw, Ohaplain,

Harry Frederick Rahlmann, &m. Dea.con,
Saraael Hansen, Junior Deacon,
Josiah Adam Simpson, Marshal,
l &ewards
Ed ward Stevenson,
'
Jamee Peter Pe&ereon, f
Joseph THare, 2Ylw.

Paat lllaatere:

Henry Fairfax Williams,
Wm. John Bagley Warner,
George Thomas Shaw,
Henry Oar! Birbe.
Francis Aagaetas Barrett, David Byron Todd,
Elias 0 Hare,
Cornelius Edward Dunshee,
MASTER MASONS:

Andrews, William James Fickett, James Everett
Artigaes, Chae. Alexander Fossum, Severt
Barailes, Eugene Lewie E. Uraham, George
Hamm, Sigmond
Baraille, ,John William
Hamilton, James William
Barry, Mathew Bryant
Hansen, Peter
Bayle, John
Bennett, Geo. Washington Hare, Frederick Eli
Ha1·e, John 8
Bird, Johannae William
Harlow, George Winfield
Butler, Allen
Hoffman, Isaac L
Copas, Jay Nealson
Horn, Bernard Jeremiah
Crosby, Horton James
Israel, Simon
Cranett, Fred
Jensen, Hansen
Deiterich, Christian
Kemline, Ladwig
De Witt, John Wallace
Dirks, John Andrew l.Jeasar Kidd, William
Donnelly, Francis Roscoe Kramer, Lewie Ueorge
Eastman, George Solomon Litchfield, Charles A.mieal
Landy, Thomas
Ellis, William Potts.

Madsen, Robert Kelly
Maguire, Michael Edward
Mahletadt, Henry
Mangels, Hans Max Chris'n
McDonald, William
.McLaughlin, Moses Alfred
Merritt,George Washington
Miller, Alexander
Miller, John Edward
Milly, Charles
Milly, Jerome
Monat, Henry
Moholy, John
Mandt, Adolph
Nonnemann, Charles
Onken, John William
Peyre, Jean Joseph
Pfeifer, George Peter

•

Ref,urns of the Subordinate Lodge&

1028

•

Rairdon, Daniel Patrick
Stewart, Robert William
Strouse, Mark
Reiser, Edwin Oliver
Stumpf, John
Ricoomi, Ollnto
Rines, James Pomeroy
Switzer, John Jacob
Rowe, Thomas
Tanner, William
Sambok, Prosper
Taylor, Benjamin Ethel
Scboretg, George
Taylor, James King
Schute, Richard Alexander Thompson, Charles
Simon, Samuel Collins
Tingley, Bedford Almer
Smith, Henry
Triefts, Edward Oli:fl'ord

[Aug. 1,

Van Valor, Nathaniel
Warburton, James Henry
Wilkie, Duncan
Williams, Frederick Louie
Wilson, John Archibald
Wilson, Riobard Foster
Woenne, Emil
Woolf, Lonie
Woredale, Henry
Zimmermann, Pbilip-102.

FELLOW ORAFT:

Kelly, Joseph Patrick-I.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Strahl, Paul Charles-3.

Ommirst, Adam

Haas, Leonard

WITHDRAWN:

•

1896.]

.

To the Grand Lqdge of California.

1029

Chrisman, Gilpin Wallace Hall, Edwin Seth
Robbins, Joseph Brown
Chorchm$o,Joseph Lowden Harkey, James Simeon
Rose, John
Colline, J.ohn Stevenson
Healey, Charles Edward
Roth, Joseph
Comstook,Andrew Jackson Hoppin, Henry Isaac
Sackett, George Lincoln
Crawford, James Monroe Hunt, Richard Orville
Seekatz, George Philip
Daly, ThomasHenry
Johnson, Leander
Shaw, Nathan Hastings
Day, James Allen
Kelsey, Joseph Barnet
Shelhamer, Daniel Webster
De Arman, David Hamilton Larmer, John
Simpson, George I.yman
Simpson, Volney Alex.
Dickson, Se.muel Thompson Layne, William Henry
Dorn, William Anderson
McGuire, Wil!iam
lstewart, George E
Dnrree, Louie Adelbert
Morgan, Jesse D
Thompson,Wm.HeoryAlbert
Ely, Martin Juda
lllyers, Jacob Kinsley
Todd, Theodore
Falkenstein, U. S. Grant Newbaoer,Slgmund Joseph Vincent, William Cluett
Featherstone, Jas. William Newby, Thomas Sheridan Walker, John Alfred
Garland, Thomae
Powers, George Oollin
Ward, Franklin Pierce
Wells, Moses Taggart-87.
Gosnell, Truman Barrick Ready, William Edward
Graves, Arthur Angostos Reilly, Edward Francie
FELLOW CRAFTS :

Mugge, Ohristian-1.

Barnard, Frank Everett

Kilson, George Elmer-2.

DIED:

Edwards, Edward

Beaty, James

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Ervin, Henry Jobn-3.
Bell, Andrew Jackson

Overmire, Milton Strader

AFFILIATED:

Sager, Benjamin Levan-S.
WITHDRAWN:

Hotchkiss, Merrith &-1.

HotchklBB, Merrith E-1.
DIED:

Holland, Jacob Headley-1.

SAN BUENAVENTURA LODGE, No. 214.
Ventura, Ventura County.

Seaud Meetings, Saturday of or ne.z:t preceding ll'uU Moon.
OFFICERS a

Benjamin Tully Williams, Maater,
Ernest Rice Hill, Senior Deoc.in,
Willis Philip Lincoln, &mior Warden,
Charles Henry Sheldon, Juntor Deacon,
Parke WiJrred Kaufman, Junior Warden, George Cook, Mar1hal,
Herbert Alvaro Giddings, l Stewardl,
Henry Clay, Treasurer,
Lasco Addison Mitchell, Seuretary,
John Harlan Mason,
f
Amos Dudley Seward, (Jhap/ain,
James Marion Riley, Twler.
Pad Ma1ter11

George Cook,
David Rhodes Denison,
Merrith. E Hotchkiss,
Charles Osborn Taylor,
James Walker.

La FiLyeUe Findla Ea.~tin,
Marion Oannon,
Kenneth Pe1er Grant,
Eugene Preston Foster,
Edward Taylor Hare,
Benjamin Tolly Williams,

Frederick William Baker,
Jamee Forman Kingsley,
Herbert Alvaro Giddings,
Nehemiah Blackstock,
Gabriel Sprowler Chrisman,

Allyn, Calvin Ethan
Argabrite, Jacob Lewie
Badgley, Andrew
Bard, Cephas Lyttle

Barnes, George Silverman Bogart,Mark Edwin Vander
Bodreau, Edward Silas
Bell, William Alexander
Benchley, Edward Kellogg Cannon, William 'Herschel
Cerf, Leon
Bernheim,jAbraham

MASTER MASONS:

OAK GROVE LODGE, No. 215.
Alameda, Alameda County.

Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each mon,h.
OFFICERS a

James Borton Barber, Master,
Elmer Ellsworth Johnson, Senior Deaoon
Edward Bell Lovejoy, Sen. Warden,
Arthnr Mock, Junior Deacon,
Benj. So.lsbory McFarland, Jun. Warden, Charles Herbert Weaver, Marsh.al,
Judson Lincoln Fast, 7reasurer,
.John Andrew Sansom, l St
di
Oswald Lnbbook, Secretary,
Robert Wilcox Brower, f e!Dllr '
William Tucker Valentine, Tyler.
J(lbo Henry Nobmaon, Ohaplain,
Past Mastera•

Elipbalet Minor Smith,
Wm.Aog'sLindleyKnowles, Airred Thomas Perkins,
Robert McGooo,
John Yablonsky,
Cyrns Austin Brown,
James Alfred Collins,
Morrison Lee Brown,
James Millington,
John Henry Eickhoff,
Eugene Uormeny,
Wm. Bainbridge Storey,
Albert Wm. John Gibbs,
Henry Vandeveer Herbert, Dennis Joseph Bollivan,
Jamee Bestor Merritt,
Jamee Borton Barber,
Hiram Throop Graves.

•

1030

Returns of the Svhordinate Lodgell

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalij<Yl'nia.
SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYl\IENT OF DUES:

MASTER MASONS :

Abrahamsoo,Fraos Bernard Barbourne, Joho Wesley Painter, Edward Robinson
Haskell, Walter Williams Payoe, George Heory
Ames, George Spencer
Perkins, Franklin Lnmnis
Hatfield, Anthony Jooes
Ayer, Isaao
Petersen, Oar! Chris'o Aug.
Bancroft, Harlow Palmer Hermao, Charles Louie
Peterson, Aodrew Banseo
Barstow, Joseph Nathaniel Hodges, William B
Pettes, William Ethao
Holt, Edward Jamee
Bartoo, Phineas Wesley
Phillipe, L'ouis Albert
Holtz, William
Baruch, Isidor
Baurhyte,Wm.Henry Moore Jenkins, Frederick Eugene Plummer, George Elliott
Poyzer, William Richard
Johnson, Ohristian Ole
Baxter, Robert William
Rea, William Lemoin
Bensemao, George Adolph Johuston, Jay Hughes
Reynolds, George Potter
Benton, Warren Goodlett Jonas, Henry Harrison
Roundy, Alvan
Jones, Leigh Savage
Bliss, John George
Schoenau, Henry
Jones, Reed
Boehmer, Fritz
Brown,' Brainard Creswell Kauffmann, Emil Hermann Scott, Arthur Walter
8evenlng, Henry
Kimball, Maraud
Brick, Charles John
Shearman, Jae. Spootewood
Chapman, Isaao Newton Kleio, Peter ·
Sheeran, James Andrew
Knowles, William
Chappell, Joho Ethan
.
Sherman, Samuel
Koerber, Angost
Christenson, Peter
Christie, Alexander Pilhie Konigebofer, Julius Jouae Siegfried, John Christiau
Lamborn, Benjamin Franois Simon, Lucien
Clark, Geerge Benjamin
Lancaster,A.merlcus Vesp's Smith, Joho Alexander
Oiift'ord, Joseph ..
Spreckels, Richard
Lancaster, Joseph
Oollier, Richard Henry
Langley, Charles Lester . Steltzner, Emil Johann O.
Connelly, Peter Joseph
Lehnere, Oar! Fred'k Aug. Stephenson, Stanley
OoosinA, Frederick Wm.
Leydecker, Theodore Wm. Stoddar,1, Asa Ohurch
Crowell, George Dana
Strong, Milton Grosvenor
Loomis, George Rodoey
Orooks, Richard
Stratford, Barry Oornish
Lorber, Joseph
Culver, Marshall Lyman
Lubbock, Cliot9n Heory Sturtevant, George
Dane, Edwio
Lubbock, Heury Schultz Swayaen, Robert Henry
Daoiel,Jamee
Taylor, Edward Kimberlin
Mackie, Alexander
Davie, William Beory
Thomae, William Paul
Magill, Robert Heory
Decker, Henry Peters
Dorwin, Geo. Wadsworth Manning, Nathan Worlay Thompson, Baos Andreas
Thompson, Robert R
Mangels, Christopher
Ellsworth, J oho
Throop, Jamee Hervey
Falkiuham, Joseph Jewett Martin, David Wilkioe
Tisdale, Oharles Lewis
Misetick, Charles Levi
Farris, Edward Read
Fischer, Charles Frederick Mathiesen, Martin William Vao Orde11, Leander, Jr.
Van Oterendorp, Klaas
Fletter, Benjamin Franklin Meigs, Johu S.
Merriman, George Marshall Volberg, Charles Christian
Fletter, Freeborn Jacob
Messer, 'Joseph Oneeeme Volberg, Frederick Ludwig
Forderer, Joseph Frank
Vosburg, Joel Brown
Michaels, Henry
Fossing, John Charles
Wall, Joseph George
Mitchell, Sidney George
Fowler, James
Maries, Addison Hurlbert Ward, Henry
Gilfillan, James Oairns
Wiese, Gustaf Adolph
Morris, Thomas Ooke
Gllssmann, Heory
Williams, Edward Alfred
. Griffiths, George Chandler Na11man, Pa11l Zeligo
Woodin, Eugene
Nelso11, Hane
Hall, Gilbert Cowles
Woodward, ArthurSedley
Noy, William Henry
Hally, Fraok
Young, Lars G11etaf-l7l.
Hammond, Oharles John Oehlmann, Ludwig
Hammond, Henry Miller
FELLOW CRAFT 1

Youogberg, John Emanuel-1.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Lancaster, Chester Jackson-1.

1031

Ayers, Wilson D

Goldstone, John

Traube, Hartwig-8

DIED 1

Cordes, Herman, Jr. (£ • .i..)-1.

DORIC LODGE, No. 216.
San Franclaco. San Francisco County.

State Meeting11, firllt Tkur11dag in each month.
OFFICERS1

William:Gleon Oopeland, Ma&er,
Henry Williamson, Senior Warden,
Thomas Locker Hill, Junior Warden,
Marcus Marke, Treatru.rer,
Adolph Kronberg, Searetary,
· - - , Ohaplafn,
. - - --

Simon Myrson, Senior Deaoon,
Jamee McLean, Junior Deacon,
William Mooser, Jr., Mar1hal,
Otto Wiiiiam Ohonette, l Stewards
'
r
Siegm11od Angetein,
Philip Rlegelhaupt (of Pa!'!fic, 186), Tyler

Past Mastera:

Loneon Martin Manzer,
Lorenz Nickel,
William Frederick Corlett.,
Morris Bernhard Levy,
Charles Metaphor Chase,

Louie Frank Donand,
Louis Simon Schoenfelil,
Thomae Benton White,
John P Fraser,
William Trebell,

Joline William Lowf!.
Jamee Francese Logan,
Ludwig Ma thia.s Hoe Iler,
Moritz Kalmuk,
Samnel Welch.

JllASTEB MASONS:

Campbell, George Tause Elliot, Frederick Nelson
Abrams, Nathan
Falk, Morrie
Oarletou, Slicer Boey
Adler, Nathan Max
Ferral, Robert
Oaesasea, Charles Henry
Allen, Frank Orrick
Clawson, Leonard Edwin Fitzgerald, Robt. Harrison
A.Hingham, William
Flanagan, James
Anderson, Andrew Petter Ooho, Herman
Frizzi, August
Colline, Samuel Heury
Anderson, Henry
Gallup, Jamee
Oooper, Samuel Marum
Anderson, John Olof
Geddes, William
Oordes, Cla11e Henry
Andrews, Abraham
Gianettoul, Stefano
Oronan, William
A.van, John
Gillespie, Wiiiiam John
Dangers, Henry
Badt, Alex. Lipschuetz
Giorgi, Llnlo
Delauy, William
Banke, William Oscar
Gist, Henry Bailey
Bennett, Geo. Washington Deoker, Nicholas Carl
Goicovich, George J
Bingham, Henry Walker Dieckmau, John.Henry
Goldberg, Max
Donlson, Harry John
Boehm, Daniel
Goldsmith, Julius Raphael
Dorn, Gus. Emil
Borrone, Santi Filippo
Gorter, Herman Heury
Douglas, Edward
Bosch; Peter
Graut, Isaac
Drucker, August
Bressi, Enrico Giuseppe
Greene, Elwood Lucius
Dyer, George Henry
Brigman, Martin
Edmundson, William Henry Gutman, Alexander
Buckland, Owen
Harris, Samuel
Eickholf, Henry
Caccia, Joseph

1032

1896.]

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

Raphael, Jamee Greerson
Levy, Louie
Barris, William
Riley, John Francl1t .
Hartje, John Herman Fred. Levy, Mark Washington
Rlslr," Joseph
Levy, Solomon
Beller, Joseph
Levy, Walter Heydenfeldt Robinson, Henry Cooke
BenneSBey, Henry
Heaston, Frederick Green Littlefield, Joseph Hight Rohrbacher, Philip
Rosenheim, Samuel
Hornblower, Fred'k Aug's Lopresti, Anthony
Rothschild, Abraham
Lowe, Clarence Willie
Holsman, Albert
Rothschild, Joseph
Bunt, Geo. Edward Putney Ludwig, Ernst Hobert
Rnsconi, John Battista
Hurrell, Alfred Cornelius Imstig, Daniel David
Magee, David Bartholomew Samson, John Andrew
Jacobs, Myer
Schmalz, William
Maher, John Henry
Janee, Graziano
Schroeder, Friedrick Wm.
Martlooni, Emil
Johnson, Edward
Schussler, Michael
Johnson, Frederick Joseph Martinon!, Jamee Frank
Sohoster, Olement John
McDonald, John Weir
Kaplan, Abraham
Sheler, Oscar
McElroy, Andrew
Kartechoke, Gustav
Sperling, Frank
Mfkklesoo, Robert
Katz, Charles
Sterofels, Bernard Henry
Morris, Henry
Keller, Richard
Stokes, Henry Arthur
Mulville, Daniel Frank
Kennedy, Joseph
Kllpatrick,Robt.Ballantyne Nagle, Richard Hamilton Stookey, Charles James
Swanberg, Charles Olof
Nannestad, Henrik Elias
Klinger, Charles
Nolting, Edward Adolph Thomson, William Tobias
Klopstock, Cortis
Tilton, James Alexander
Kropp,HermanChristopher O'Connor, Joseph
Trebell, John
Oliver, Edward
Kollman, Jacob
Warren, Charles Albert
Packscher, Adolph
Lande, Edward
West, Peter Frederick
Palmer, James
Laodgreeo, William
Paterson, Walter Redford Wheeler, Edward Alvin
Larkin, Harry
White, William Mercer
Paton, George
Lanen, Hans Henrik
Whitney, John Tyler
Peirce, Charles Vincent
Larsen, Louis Albert
Williamson, George
Pence, John Wilson .
Leszynsky, Isidor
Wlleoo, James
Peshoo, Peter Alfred
Levi, Mark
Peterson, Chas. Gos. Ferd. Withers, Louis Albert Thoe.
Levin, David
Pierotl, Hen.C.Colllogwood Woolf, Michael Joseph
Levin, Jacob
Yaroberg, Charles
Plato, David
Levy, Adolph
Zacharias, Lyon
Plummer, Sanford
Levy, Elias
ZeiUer, Friedrich-19 0.
Pratt, Alexander
Levy, Joseph
ENTERED APPRENTICE S :

Field, William Jamee

Laodler, Louis

To tlie Grand Lxlge o/ Oalifotnw.

MONTER EY LODGE, No. 217.
.Monterey, .Monterey County.

Stated Meeting•, Saturday of or n~t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Adolph Gonzendorfer, Senior Deacon,
Thomas Grafton Lambert, Marter,
Will Emory Parker, Junior Deaoon,
William Kay, Senior Warden,
Will Jacks, Junior Warden •
- - - - - - , Marshal,
Edward Spencer Josselyn,
Ja_m~s Bowman Snively, 1\-easurer,
Henry Alexander Olmsted } Sleioards,
Wilham Edgar Crawford, Secretary,
'
William James Towle, '.l)ller.
Past lllaatera 1

Thomas Grafton Lambert,
John Randolph Patrick,

Charles Newton Bennett,

Gell, Samuel Franklin
McMllleo, Hiram
Grimes, Ed ward
Mitchell , Robert Grant
Guozeodorfer, Ferdinand Pierce, Frank
Harris, Wiiiiam L
Prinz, Herman Julius Otto
Hilby, Francis Martin
Pyburn, William Henry
Biller, Andrew
Sargent, James Patty
Ingham, George Francis
Spencer, David Louk
Ingram, Edward
Stewart, Walter
Ireland, Matthew Collins Stockdale, James Thomas
Kent, Henry Edmund
Sorrhyoe, Isaac
LiLwrey, Francie Edward Syme, Edward James
Leppert, Joseph
Swetnam, Isaac Newton
Little, David Spence
Toothaker, Lother Simmons
Little, Milton Thomas
Voshell, Francis S
Manuel, Augustin Antoine Wright, James-ss.
ENTERED APPRENTICE S :

McDonald, Philip

Simmons, Edward Thomas Menomy-2.

Levin, David- 1.
WITHDRAWN :

WITHDRAWN :

Julio, Axel Fredrik

Lucas, Pierre Marie

Sherman, James Bpottawood- S.

Mason Lorenzo Dexter.

MASTER MASONS;

Anway, Ci11yto~ Loren
Bagby, Jacob Warren
Barnet, Emanael
Bassett, Abner
Bogle, Samuel Salfell
Bralee, Thomae
Bronson, Andrew
Burns, Ed ward
Connelly, John Thomas
Cook, Theodore Webster
Cupples, William
Dodge, William Albert
Eaton, Frank Eugene
Edwards, William Sawyer
Garrick, Adolph

Wigmore, Alphonse Adelbert-3,

RESTORED:

1033

SUSPENDED F OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Palmer, Hiram Jairoe- 1.

Schaufele, Lonis-1.
DIED:

SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT :

DIED:

Hammond, Philip-I.

Markewlt.z, Augost-1.

Barnes, Zopher Pliny
Escolle, Honore

Masters, Henry

Parker, Wm. Matticks Rodgers-4,

Daingerfield, Frank Edwin (1'. o.)-1,

41

1034

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICER!ii:

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nut aucceeding Tull Moon.
OFFICRRS1

Francis Ronelle Fe.sset~, Senior Deacon,•
George Ed win Kennedy, Master,
Silas Lee Savage, Junwr Deacon,
J oho Carey Hayes, Senior Warden,
Madison Hartwell Beck, Junior Warden, John Thomas Farley Welle, Marshal,
Steward.a,
Reuben Hooter, .
Henry Hinsdale Pitcher, '.lreasurer,
Jacob Franklin Myers,
Joseph Oscar McKown, Secretary,
Pany Henry Angelopoole, Ty'IBr.
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

f

Paat Ma•ters t

Benson Clarke Bellamy.

Gniseppe Calegaris, Malter,
Carlo Scalmanini, Senior Deacon,
Giovanni Scalmanini, Senior Warden,
Georgio Slavlch, Junior Deacon,
Lorenzo Di Grazia, Junior Warden,
Andre Paltenghi, Marlhal,
Giuseppe Carlo Sala, 7reaaurer,
Giovanni Lepori, l St(!llJards
Benjamino Moron, Secretary,
'
Achille Baccilieri, f
Fiorenzo Cangnaro, Ohaplain,
Philip Rlegelhanpt (of PatJi,fic Lodge, No. 136), Tyler.
Paat Maaters:

Audrea Davin!,
Alessandro Zab~ldauo,
Carlo Balzarini,
Ginseppe Carlo Sala,

MASTER MASONS :

Anspacher, Simon
Armstrong, John
Aylward, John
B11iley, Hiram
Bardellini, Joseph
Barker, Benjamin P,
Barnes, George Robinson
Barron, Andrew Sculley
Beck, Johu
Bietorlous, Albert
Demartini, Antonio

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Scarlet, John-8.

Bonnell, Albert

RESTORED:

WITHDRAWN:

Bardellinl, Joeeph-1.

Close, James Edll'ard-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bowles, Jesse
Bowles, William Holman

Carlo Scalmanini,
Benjamino Moron,
Ginseppe Onesti,
Fiorenzo Cavagnaro,

Vincenzo Ravenna,
Giuseppe Bini,
Goiseppe Calegaris.

MASTER MASONS:

Feidler, Arthur Wellington Schrader, Frederick Angost
Seller, Samuel
Harris, Joseph
Holmes, Nathaniel Breed Taylor, Andrew Charles
Taylor, William Harvey
Horteuetlne, John Baker
Taylor, William Stewart
Inman, Daniel
Waterman, Lonis Philip
Jordan, Wend<!ll
Littlefield, John Fr11nklin Webb, Edmund StandJsh
Munch, Charles Gottlieb Wells, Charles Samuel
Welle, Thomas Dickenson
Owens, Owen Thomas
Schoenstedt,Johann Karl F. Williams, Richard Griffiths
-46.

Anderson, Jamee

1035

San Francbco, San Francisco County.

Livermore, Alameda County.

Joseph Hardy Taylor,

To the GTand Lodge of California.
LOGGIA SPERANZA ITALIANA, No. 219.

MOSAIC LODGE, No. 218.

Francie Ronello Fassett,
William Henry Wright,

. 1896,]

Doyal, Wilbur Mortimer
McDonald , David
DIED:

Wynn, Watkin William- I.

Thomas, Benjamin Franklin
-6.

Antonelli, Viucenzo
Di Vecchio, Emilio
Nigro, Fabrizio
Arata, Francisco
Domenici, Basilio
Paladini, Achille
Bacigalupi, Gaetano
Fantlna, Antonio
Palmieri, Egisto
Bacigalupi, Palo
Fochettl, Mattia
Pasquale, Benedetto
BaBBi, Giuseppe
Fontana, Marco Giovanni Passalacqua, Benedetto
Bazzlnl, Giovani
Gadlna, Pietro
Percivalle, Carlo
Bazzoro, Giuseppe
Gianettoni, Malachia
Peri, Luigi Giuseppe
Belli, Silvio
Giaxa, Harry
Peetelacci, Tobia
Bianchi, Carlo
Gracchi, Luigi
Picetti, Pietro
Bossetti, Spolito
Goanziroli, Luigi
Podesta, Giuseppe
Brizzolara, Lnigi
Goaraglia, Giacomo
Puccinelli, Vioceozo
Bozzini, Gaodenzio
Jaccherl, Garibaldi
Raffo, Antonio
Caglieri, Giorgio Giovaoni Laml, Edoardo
Roccatagllata,Giovanoi Bat.
Camilloni, Giuseppe
Leonardi, Salvatore
RoBBI, Bartoli Pietro
CaroB8o, Paolo
Levaggi, Giovanni Battista Sanguinetti, Goiseppe
01188.Bsa, Agostino
Magitio, For tunato
Sbarboro, Andrea
Casellf, Antonio
Marcacci, Antonio
Simi, Gaetano
Oondari, Teodoro
Marrengo, Serafino
Sreeovich, Luke (}
Costantini, Stanislao
.Masoero, Lodovico Cesare Taccone, Gianvito
Cnneo, Giovanni
Messina, Loigi Oandido
Torre, Costantino
Damoote, Antouio
Micheletti, Italo
Torre, Giovanni
Dell' OBBo, Carlo
Micheletti, Pietro
Tonini, Michele Gaudenzio
Delmonte, Angelo
Molinari, Giuseppe Pietro Vaccari, Vincenzo
Delosa, Francesco
Morelli, Severio Giovanni Valente, Lnigi-89,
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Garabaldl, Giovanni Antonio

Lorenzen, Frederico

Tisnado, Modesto-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Moretti, Attilio

Trezzini, Bernardo-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Canepa, Pietrll
Oaroiglla, Egidio

Di Vecchio, 8tefano

Frediani, Guiseppe -4.

l036

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

DOWNEY LODGE, No. 220.

1896.]

To the Grand. Lodge of Oalifornia.
Paat Maaten 1
Patrick Henry Mack,
John Sarsfield Gorman,

John Wash'n Pierce Laird,
John Shepherd,

Downey. Loa An£elea County.

StatBd Meetings, Saturday of or ne:i:t Feuding Full Moon.
OFFICER81

Ranae Bird HRrris, Master,
Qnintin John Rowley, Senior Warden,
Jnlius Harris Ardis, Junior Warden,
William Carnthers, 7reaaurer,
John Barris Brown, Seoretary,
Joseph William Venable, Ohaplain,

Frank Emerson Martin, Senior Deacon,
Algernon Sidney Gray, Junior Deacon,
Harvey Romeyn Gray, Mar1hal,
J Steward.a
Jacob Albert Perkins,
'
Parley Chapman Mitchell, l
Barney William Shanker, T11Zer.

Joseph William Venable,
Ranse Bird Harris,

1"1ut lllaatera 1
Delos De Wolf De Nnre,
Jeremiah Olay,

Ardis, John Dawson
Arey, Reuben Byron
Atwater, Edward Panl
Barnch, Berthold
Buster, John Walker
Cheney, Tilford Denton
Cohn, Louis
Condi t, William Robert
Oowan, Alfred Riley
East, George Earl
Guy, Anstin Newell

Ralph, James William
GrifHn, George Winston
Hill, James Andrew Paton Ryan, Andrew Willia.m
Houghton, Lake William Scott, Henry Adison
Settle, Marcos George
Levy, Samuel
Smith, Charles Wheeler
Lewin, John Peter
Stewart, Alexander
Loew, Jacob
Stewart, James
Monohan, Patrick
Squires, Andrew Jackson
Orr, William Warren
Pemberton,James Nicholas Woodward, Sam'l Kitchens
Woody, Millard Fillmore
Perkins, John Franklin
-48.

Canovan, Thomas

Finley, William Asa

Thomae Fanlkner Renfro,
Harvey Romeyn Gray.

1037

Thomas Carroll Boland,
Irving Harvey Mulhollo.nd.

MASTER MA!!ONS:

Brady, James
Harvey, Wm. Bncbanan · Pidge, William O
Oart!er, Hilaire Philibert Hoover, Jerome Bonaparte Piper, Noah Twldoey
Reddy, Edward S
Collins, George
Howard, Panl Zephirio
Rhine, Bertrand
Conklin, Norman Edward Irwin, J oho Clemence
Thurston, Samuel D
Johnson, David A
Gill , George Monroe
Walker, Aognst
Gregg, Stephen Gregg
Lewis, George Herbert
Harrell, William Oscar
Walker, Webster Bilton
Meroney, William Oscar
Harvey, Alvey Curtis
Newlon, Samuel Jefferson Yaney, Israel Pntnam, Jr .
-38 .
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

DIED:

Anton, John Oha~les-1.

Bell, Andrew Neel-1.

MASTER MASONS :

WITHDRAWN:

Hammer, Samuel Orawford-3.

DIED :

GRANITE LODGE, No. 222.
Rocklin, Placer County.

Stated .Meetings, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding Ful,l Moon.
OFFICER81

Albert Maurice Grindell, Senior Deacon,
Ira Lemnel Delano, Master,
Benjamin Franklin Smith, Jr., Jr. Dea11on,
John Ra.lston Dyer, Senior Warden,
Isidor Levison, Marshal,
William Nicol, Junior Warden,
Lewis Curl, 7reasurer,
James Kelly, l Stewards
'
Lee Filson, f
William lln1f, Secretary,
Paul Vivaldo, Tyler.
Past Masters•

Smith, William Cnrtis-1.

Ira Lemnel Delano.

John Sweeney,

MASTER MASONS:

INYO LODGE, No. 221.
Independence, Inyo Co-ty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER!i11

John Barefield Gorman, Senior Deacon,
J;i.mee Alexander McKenzie, Master,
Jarins David Mairs, Junior Deac.on,
Patrick Henry Mack, BeniQr Warden,
John Shepherd, Marshal,
Neil McLean, Junior Warden,
Joseph Viley Skinner, l steioards
Omie Isaac Mairs, Treaeurer,
'
Andrew Jackson Wren, r
William .M Richards, Secretary,
George Washiogtoo Brady, Tyler.

Astill, James
Bnrohard, James Philo
Chamberlin, Jerome B
Connor, John Michael
Day, Jc;>seph Oalhono
Doncau, Charles Douglas
Gilbert, Thomas Mack
Hackett, Don Zemoria

Rowland, Robert
Holder, John
Smith, Benj. Franklin, Sr.
Jeffrey, John Slruttons
Statrord, Ralph Lewis
Ketcham, Marvin
Thomas, Lee Dingus
Knapp, John Corliss
Thyle, Alvin Clarence
McGloley, John
Van Maren, Philip
Newton, Thomas
Panebaker,Edw'd Elsworth Warmiogton,Olar'nce Elmer
Whalloo, Samnel Norton
Perkins, William Dana
-36.

FELLOW CRAFT:

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Oorliss, Henry Hurbert-1.

Hanisch, Alvioi Angnst-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Estabrook, Judson Alonzo-1.
DIED:

Armsdeo, Josiah William

Coleman, Tlmothy-2.

1038

Returns of the Subordinate Lo<iges

1896.]

[Aqg. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of OaWornia.

1039

BROOKLYN LODGE, No. 225.
BAKERSFIEL D LODGE, No. 224.

East Oakland, , Alameda County.

Bake:nfteld. Kern County.

Stated Meetings, fir1t Titeaday in each month.

Stated Muting1, Thursday of or nezt preuding Full .Moon.

OFFICERS a

OFFICERS a

Jo Everette Patton, Senior Deacon.•
Hugh Alleo Blodgett, Master,
Frederick Jewell Laird, Junior Deaoon,
Frank Sabioos Rice, Senior Warden,
James Beojamio Hoot, Juni-Or Warden, George Fraoklin Weeks , Marshal,
Fraok Wilkios Robiosoo, t Stewards,
Alphoose Weill, 7reasurer,
Edward Arthur Baer,
f
Robert Seldeo Hale, Se0t·etary,
Daoa Ebeoezer Hutchins, Tyler.
-- - - , Ohaplain,
Pa•t Master• 1

Beojamio Broodage,
Lewis Styles Rogers,
Heory Alexaoder Jastro,

Wirt Roblosoo Macmnrdo, Alvah Ros'! Oonklin,P.G.M.
Charles Michael Stoll,
Arthur Hussey Swain,
Hngh Allen Blodgett.
Alphonse Weill,

Innes, John
Pogson, Robert Miller
Baer, Charles Eugene
James, Walter
Roell,Cornelis Fred'k AleL
Beer, Lucian
Jerroe, Daoiel Beroard
Rousseau, Elijah
Brower, Celsos
Jewett, Solomon
Saodersoo, Joho Fraoklin
Brown, Aodrew
Judd, Stiles Morris
Schmeidte, Claes Axel
Camidge, William Joho
Mack, Julius J
Stern, Louis
Condict, Henry Ford
Maude, Albert Clement
Stockton, Chris t'r Columbus
Congdon, Charles Heory
.Medina, John Blancharte Taggart, Thomas Edwin
Fry, J'lho Adolphus
Hack, Frederick Beroard McDougall, Benjamin Geer Taylor, Chas. John Edward
McKelvey, Lewis
Tyler, William
Hall, Lother Altoo
Tubbs, Elba Auston
Hardiog, Thomas Edward Neill, John
Neill, Robert
Van Vleck, John Dorsey
Heine.man, Simoo
Pettit, Frank
-56.
Hirschfeld, Hermao
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Richards, Alfred

Sarrazin, Jean-4.

WITHDRAWN:

Henry, Joseph Hamilton
Hultquist, Peter Ernest .

Jewett, Philo Dennis
Morrison, Joho Chambers

Paat ltla•tera 1

Jonathan Vinson Webster, Theodore Henry Hatch,
Ambrose .Merritt,
John Waterman Phillips,
William Thomas Gibbs,
William Ilobert Evans,
Lewis Risdon Mead,
Howell Pratt Capell,
George Roscoe Williarue,
Charles Drinkwater Hayes, Archibald Alexan'r Dewlnir, Samuel Greely Hilborn.
Arthur Edward Magill,
John Walter Evans,
MASTER MASONS;

MASTER MASONS:

Mann, Lafayette L
Nelsoo, Martin

l

Samuel Swift, Master,
Henry Franklin Goff, Senior Deacon,
Thoe,. Baldwin Ripley Crandell, Sr. Ward., Walter Joseph Petersen, Junior Deacon,
John Alexander Campbell, Jun. Warden, George Gordon Cumming, Marshal,
George Henry Troe, Treasurer,
Joho Charles Foster, l Stew d
11
Charles Drinkwater Hayes, Seoretary,
Charles Horo Smith, I
ar '
William Congdon Potter, Ohaplain,
William David Thomas, Tyler.

Valeotine, Frank Eugene

-6.

Anderson, Alex. Watson
Foller, Amos Leighton
Melvin, Samuel Houston
Baker, Henry Mathews
Forg&son, Charles Horace Melvin, William Patterson
Bangle, ·Edward
Golf, Lucius Marion
Miller, James
Black, Samuel Thorburn
Gray, Robert Wallace
Mould, Richard Inkerman
Bontan, Leonard
Grimes, Everett Mason
Petty, John Arthur
Ohilds, Aogustos Frederic Halsey, Henry Luther
Pfenninger, Hermann
Cobbledlck, James
Harbinson,Geo.Was hingt'n Bice, Calvin Bacon
Oonklin, Frank Granger
Hart, John Annear
Rugg, Joseph Percival
Oool, Rossell Hopkins
Hatch, John Davis
Ratledge, William
Copeland, Alexander
Henshaw, Frederick Wm. Sabio, John Murray, Jr.
Corbett, Joseph Balley
Henshaw, William Griffith Sewell, Newton
Cowell, Charles Herbert
Hoot, Joseph
Smith, Byron Grover
Dale, David Ranch
Jackson, David Howell
Smith, Olayton Kerper
Davis, Frederick William Keller, David Conrad
Stewart, Michael Yoong
De La Roe, Edwin
Kelley, John Joseph
Swift, Charles Ingham
Dingley, Charles Llewellyn Krause, Frederick Low
Swift, Samuel Crosby
Dingley, Walter Frederick Laroe, James
Tubbs, Herman Allen
Donaldson. William Aug's Liese, Arthur Henry
Vandercook, Edw'd Pickett
Downey, John Charles
Lucas, Emanuel
Vincent, James Elsworth
Dunbar, Joshua
Machin, TimoUiy Nostran Von Adelong, Edward
Donn, Daniel 0
Mason, George Henry
Warren, Granvill Dexter
Everett, Frank Inches
Mason, William Cowan
Wentworth, Charles Oscar
Fe\ley, Phllomen Henry
Maynard, James Lewis
Wilcox, Wilbur Jairoe
Fletcher, Leroy Dermott
Melvin, Henry Alexander Wuthe, Pao! Willlam~98.
Frederickson, William
ENTERED APPRENTIOES :

Balley, William Thomas

Garthorne, George Henry

Lofkio, Thomas H.-3.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Newsom, John J-L

1040

Returns o/ the Subordinate Lodge.s

tAug. i,

1896.)

~o the Grand Lodge of OaJ,if<Ymia.

1041

M&STEB MASONS:

Abrams, Lewis Rosser
Altken, James
Collins, J oho Samuel
Evans, Robert
Jones, David Panl

HAYWARD LODGE, No. 226.
Halt: Moon Bay, San Mateo Couuty.

Stated Meetinga, Frirlay of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Jones, William Robert
Mason, John
Richmond, George
Riddook, Alexander

Simmons, Harry
Spowart, David
Spratt, Thom11&
Williams, J oho Henry-26.

OFFICERS•

Fred Burnett Fillmore, Ma11te1·,
George Williams, Senior Warden,
James Hatch, Junior Warden,
Fernand Levy, 7Teasurer,
Armand Levy, Secretary,
Roberi Israel Knapp, Ohaplain,

Charles Wightman Borden, Sen. Deacon,
Cerrero Esteban Barnedo, Junior Deacon,
Lonis Bloumtree Bernard, Martha!,
Thomas Johnston,
l Stewards,
Rufus Harvey Hatch, f
Robert Allen Rawls, 7Yler.

ATHENS LODGE, No. 228.

Pa•t Maaten:

Joseph B Freitas,
George Duncan,

Henry Elford Lee,
Josiah Parker Ames,

Louis Bloumtree Bernard,
Horatio Manser Templeton,

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or nezt preading Full Moo11.

MASTER MASONS :

Borden, George Riley
Bonzanni, Antonio
Davids, Charles Henry
Emerson, Mark
Gordon, Alexander
Hartley, Griffith Price

Hatch, John Henry
Heyman, Jul~s Jonas
Lantenschlager, Conrad
Latrranchl, Antonio
Larson, John
Levy, Joseph

Lonreuco, Jacinto
Molzen, Angust Henry Paul
Roe, Timothy Elwood
Thompson, Hiram Walker
Walker, Charles Cornwell
-34.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

OFFICERS• ·

William Louis Wood, Master,
Frank Benjamin Wire, Senior Deacon,
Henry Jacob Hamel, Senfor Warden,
Augnst Frederick Lehrman, Jun, Deaoon,
William Ogborn Rossell, JuntorWarden, Eli Snider, Marshal,
George Frederick Hamel, 1\-eaeurer,
Renben B Bronson, I Stew dB
Frederick Werner Wilson, Secretary,
Patrick Hugh Brady, C
ar '
Walter Ernest Bates, Ohaplain,
Hiram Henry Smith, 7'1ler,

Maynard, Ahnarien B-1.

Paat Maateru

Mathew Gardner,
Ward Spooner Wiiiiams,
Henry Hamel,

William H11rrison Marden, George Frederick Hamel,
Renben B Bronson,
James Henry Brady,
Frank Benjamin Wire,
Walter Ernest Bates.
MASTER MASONS:

CONTRA COSTA LODGE, No. 227.
SomeravUle, Contra Coata County.

Stated Meetings, 'l'uearlay of or nut preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Edward McLeod, Senior Deacon,
John Henry Trythall, Master,
John Thomas Cox, Junior Deacon,
George Holladay,Senior Warden,
Robert Maphtit Clare, Marshal,
David Daniel Harris, Junior Warden,
Watkin P. Morgans,
l SterDards,
James Rankin, 7reamrsr,
Thomas Morgan Williams, f
Samnel Brown, Secretary,
Benjamin Jones, 7Yler.

Brady, Thomas
Gordon, Melvin Barnes
Chamberlain,VincentJndah Greene, Charles Edmund
Craig, Frederick
Gode, Richard
Dresbach, William
Hny, John Wilson
Gallagher, Joseph James Johnson, Henry Foster
George, Jacob Smith
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Morgan, John L.ewls-1.

Brown, Elijah William- 1.'

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Gould, Eugene Henry
Hillman, Arthur Constantine

Paet Master• 1

John Franklin Deemer,
James Rankin,
Samuel Brown,

Robert Maphflt Clare, ·
Edward McLeod,
J oho Thomas Oox,

Moon, James Luman
Page, David Cooper
Stamp, George
Taylor, John
Walsh, Michael-33.

George Holladay,
J oho Langman,
J oho H e1l1"7 Trythall.

. 42

Lnddington, Gilbert Lewis
Maddox, Charles Wesley

Mastin, Walter-5.

1042

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodgea

[Aug. 1, ·

1896.]

To the Grand .Lodge of UaUfornia.
NORTH BUTI'E LODGE, No. 230.

SOLANO LODGE, No. 22g,

Gridley, Butte Count:v.

Vallejo, Solano County.

Stated Meeting11, Saturday of or ne;i;t preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meeting11, fir11t Monday in each month.

OFFICERS1

OFFICERS:

J ohneton Hillard Cooper, Ma11ter,
Amoe Edwin Barbonr, Senior Warden,
Neil Charlson Dametedt, Jr. Warden,
Melchoir Kemper, Treaaurer,
Alden Leonard Hatheway, SecrelAry,
- - - - - . - , Chaplain,

John Wilton Winton, Senior Deacon,
William Lathrop Goddard, Ju11. Deacon,
Francis Bertrand Lemon, Marshal,
Alonzo Sherm~~liday, } Stewards,

.

Richard Angnstna Norman, Ma11ter,
James Marshall, Senior Warden,
Washington Dnnn Barker, Jun. Warden,
George Diedrich WiOkman, Treasurer,
:Marcus James Bigelow, Secretary,
Thomas Bending Channon, Ohaplain,

Oalvin Lamphere Hyde, 2},tler.

Paat Maatera1

Frank Edward Brown,
George Thompson,
John Farnham,
James Roney,
Alex. Bertsch Bertoscky,

1043

Henry Daniel Lazelle,
Patrick Haley,
Alden Leonard Hatheway, John Wilton Winton,
Harry Carlton Good,
John Qnlncy Adams,
Joseph Bnllock Ooghlan, Calvin Lamphere Hyde,
Lonie Garibaldi Barrier,
W:m. Bremer Stephenson.
MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, Carl
Harrie, George Gregory
Pressey, William Brown
Bassford, Fordham Clay
Holtog, Jorgen Jacob
Pulsifer, Orrin Fred.
Beseing, Joseph
Irving, Andrew Kerr
Redstone, William
. Black, Frank Jerry
.Itrich, Franz Anton
Reed, Borra William
Brownridge, Geo. Thomas Jamiaon,Frederick Antonio Reed, Wm. Thoe. Winston
Bailer, Ira Mortimer
Jones, Thomas William
Robinson, Thomas Loring
Clarke, William Henry
Lavlere, Frank
Bhillingsbnrg, Elias
Carrie, Archie
McAllieter,AdamArmatr'ng Smith, John
Dick, Thomas Brown
McCool, Daniel Miller
Bosa, Aneelin
Dornin, William Henry
Melven, Nathanfol
Street, Ang. Marlebnrger
Edgcnmbe, Joseph Collings Meyer,Wiih'mOhria'nLud'g Thompson, John
Eklnndh, Carl Frederick
Nagle, Richard Wellington Tolfortaon, Angnet Fred'k
Ford, John Harris
Neat, Albrecht
Webster, Henry John
Frey, John
Nord, Johan
Wilson, Henry
Gee, William, Jr.
Paletta, Lnigi
Yonng, Charles Mortimer
Harrier, Victor Virgil
· -68.

Oharles Afonzo Moore, Senior Deacon,
Hosea Edwin Reid, Junior .Deacon,
Homer Allen Woodworth, Marshal,
Sydney Hughes Morgan, l Stewardl,
Charles Henry Block,
f
Fred Oru~ick, 2}/lsr.

Pa•t Jl[aatera 1

Aaron Pngh,
Marcns'Jamea Bigelow,

Edward Ernest Biggs,
Homer Allen Woodworth,

Jamea fhomas Galbreath.

MASTER MASONS :

Boling, Rufns Jefferson
Hutchins, John Sullivan
. Bonelptt, Arnold
Jones, Benjamin Cottle
Bnok, John Hiram
King, Oharlea Lee
Dart, Wiiiiam
Miller, Arthur Gardner
Dodgson.Benjamin Franklin Mon Id, Wllii11m
Fagan, Edward
Myers, James
Fleming, Thomas Robert Porter, Jackson 0
Granier, Oharlea
Richter, Arthnr
Hampton, James Madison Robinson, Robert Ernest
Harris, Joseph Thompson 'Rull, Samuel Francis
Henninger, James

l:!heliey, Lother Madison
Bheridau, David
Simpson, William
Smith, Almon
Bperty, Willard Felton
Stafford, William Henry
Stone, Lewis Charles
Taylor, Reese Bowen
Van FoBBen, Thomas Ezra
Young, John Cottreil-,6.

FELLOW CRAFT :

Blackford, Ba.mnel Bhannon-1.
ENTERED Al'PRENTIOES :

Bloomfield, Charles

Buckley, Charles

Evans, John Armory-3.

RESTORED:

WITHDRAWN:

Van F011Ben, Thomas Ezra-I.

Brown, Lorenzo King-1.

E?i!TERED APPRENTICES :

Bowren, Charles
Farley, Martin Brown

Haag, Eberhard
Holmgren, Alfred

Wooda, Bamnel-5.

OOVJ!!LO LODGE, No. 231.

RESTORED:

Covelo, Mendocino County,

Irving, Andrew Kerr-1.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:r:t precedi11g Full Moon.

WITHDRAWN:

Keating, Richard Joseph

Sailor, John Henry
DIED:

Wood, George-1.

OFFICERS1

Williams, Robert Adrian-3.

Charles Henry Hurt, Master,
Charles Milton Brown, Senior Deacon,
James Henry Riffe, Senior Warden,
Wm. Summerfield Van Dyke, .Tr. Deacon,
John Wesley Grist, Junior Wai·den,
Francia Marion Thomso11, .Marshal,
Joseph Nelson Rea, 7reasurer,
Jacob Whattenberger, l .stewardl
George Washington Onmmins, Secretary, Albert Emmet Mccombs, f
'
- - - - - - , Ohap'lu.in,
Feli:g Purcell, 'l'ylsr.

1044

[Aug. 1,

Returns of the SUbordinate I,iod,ges

1896.J

To the Grand Lodge of OaJ,ij<W'nia.

Paat Maatera 1

ENTERED APPRENTICE ':

Francis Marion Van Dyke,
Wbitcombe Henley,
Wm. Summerfield Van Dyke, Henry Bolon Lovell.

Felix Purcell,
Geo. Washington Cummins,

1045

Brnohonae, Fred-1.
RESTORED:

MASTER MASONS :

Hemler, John Oscar

Bennett, Josiah
Hammell, William Bradford Mathews, Hiram Walker
.Connolly, Thos. Worth'gton Handy, Philo
Perry, Alexander Copier
Eldred, Horace Alexander Hornbrook, Sanders
Randrup, William
Foster, Jesse Gilbert
Harders, Ambrose Robert Spaulding, Horace Reuben
Gray, Andrew
Marks, Henry
Walker, George Bort-SO.
Jlall, Ileory Miller

Fisher, Jobo-2.

WITHDRAWN:

EXPELLED:

Foley, Robert Emmett-I.

Mentor, William Henry-I,

FELWW ORAJ!'T :
S~uthard, Harry-1.

CALISTOGA LODGE, No. 233.

BEBTORED:

Benoet,i, Josiah

Walker, George Burt-2.
WITHDRAWN:

C•ll•toll'a. Napa County,

Stated Muting1, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Bellamy, Benson Clark-1.

OFFICERS:

Charles Nathan Pickett, MaRler,
Joseph 0 Wright, SeniorlVarden,
Felix Lauren Granes, Junior Warden,
Newton Cooner, '.lreaaurer,
Ferdinand Frank, Secreta.ry,
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

Paat lllaatera 1

JANESVILLE LODGE, No. 282.

Franklin Ashton,
Adrian Sickles Philip,

Janeavllle, Laaaen County.

Robert Hare Delafield,
William Thomas Simmons,

OFFICERS:

William Hezekiah Sitrord, Ma.ater,
James Alexander Wood, t:Jenior Deacon,
Harry Foltoo Morphy, Senior Warden,
Stephen Shore Bass, Junior Deacon,
Jeremiah Bond, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - , Mar1hal,
Hiram Winchell, 7reasurer,
Samoel Uberto Downing, l Stetoa.rdl,
Flavin& J Winchell, 88uretary,
Charles Bates Clarke.
Isaac Wright Smith, 7}/ler.

r

Past Maaters:

Hiram Winchell,
Flavios JWinchell,

William Hezekiah Sitrord.

Adams, Ira Winchell
Ford, Herbert Rossell
Borgese, Charles Melzar
Foss, Charles Clark
Collins, Nelson Walton
Fulcher, Marcos Jnlins
Cordes, Tobias John
Garrett, William Thomas
Croch, Charles Wily
Gerber, John Francis
Croncb, Francis Asahel
Hicklin, Georiie Thomas
Decker, Porter Alfred
Higgina, Andrew Jackson
Dneriog,Oarl H.Fred'k Von Hoover, Abram
Evey, David Douglas
Hoover, John
Fee, Leonidas Wilson
Ne'wbaner, Sigmond W.

Doyle, Stephen Abbott
Fisher, Jolin
Hemler, John Oscar
Jellison, John Edward
Johnson, John
McDermott, James
McKissick, Jacob
Otto, Anthony

Pratt, Eugene Franklin
Rutherford, J oho Ritchie
Simmons, Amos
Spiers, William
Stevens, Charles Alxis
Sweitzer, Charles Herbert
Thomas, George Henry
Willis, David Connor
Wilson, Benjamin Franklin
Wright, Joseph Wllliam-,45.

FELLOW CRAFT :

Linscott, Oscar Henry-I.

MASTER MASONS :

Alexander, Abraham
Bailey, Ira Eogeoe
Bass, John Edward
Bass, Richard Dudley
Carter, Oscar Lafayette
Olark, William Henry
Decioos, Joseph Warren
Doyle, Otis :Marks

Frank Wal~n Mitchell,
Ferdinand Frank.

MASTER MASONS:

Stated Me.etings, Saturday nm preceding Full Moon.

Jeremiah Leakey,
Jeremiah Bond,

Robert Hooter Safley, Senf.or Deacon,
Oscar :Martin, Junior Deacon,
Franklin Ashton, MarBhal,
William Frederick Fisher, l BtewardB,
Jl!mes Hooter Safley,
f
Emanuel Hoover Cable, 7}/ler.

Pendleton, Leonidas
Pollen, Granville
Rowland, Edgar Frank
Roberta, Charlie Byron
Sharp, James Porter
Steinberger, James Milton
Theodore, J ohn-3•.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Ambrose, William

Mc Phersoa, :J oho Miller

Bnllivan, James Joseph.:....3.

RESTORED:

WITHDRAWN:

Smith, William Davis-I.

Smith, William Davie-I.

SUSPENDED l!'OR NON-PAYMENT OJ!' DUES :

Easley, Roderick Bogh

Easley, William Hngh

:Monroe, Wllliam-3.

1046

Ret·urns of the SulJordinaie Lodges

1896.)

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1047

Paet lllaaters 1

John Heath Bonner,
Ward Spooner Stevens, ·
William Henry Patterson,

HOPE LODGE, No. 234.
Beckwith, PluJRas County.

MASTER MASONS :

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or next 8ucceedi11g Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Wylie,
William Mollins.

•

Latharn,Melancthon Seym'r Rlchar\lllon.~lijah]Allen
Berry, Doctor Champlin
Ruth, Obarles Bittner
Hornback, James.Mcintire M'.cClintock, Frank
Soarnmon.'Mettiah Lancas'r
Minto, Robert Wield
Bonner, John
Stanley, Ransom Heenan .
Morrow, John William
Jones, Joseph Lewis

~

, Robert Alexander Heriot, Sen. Deacon,
Putnam M Oate, MaBler,
James John Petersen, Junior Deacon,
Thomae Lewis Jones, Senior Warden,
George Washington Cate, .Jun. Warden, Joseph Robert Enecoe, Marshal,
Sylvester Angustus Thome.a, l Sle11Jardll,
William Eugene McNeil, Trearurer,
f
David Heriot,
Frank Oe.mpbell, Secretary,
William Cromwell Bringham, 7'1/ler.
Allen Trimble, Ohaplain,

7
ENTERED APPRENTICE: -:1 •

FELLOW CRAFT:

Angle, William-1.

Ehrhardt, George Edward-1.
DIED:

Hughes, I.ea.oder W-1.

Past Masters 1

Robert Alexander Heriot,

Putnam M Cate,

WilliamEngene McNeil,

William Harvey MoOormlck,
Thomas Henry Johnstone,

MASTER MASONS :

Hamilton, Clark Carleton Peterson, John Henry
Arms, William
He.the.we.y,Joseph Bushnell Peterson, Oscar William
Bergarett, JosephAnbin
Rernelli, David
Bringham, Marion Castor Huff, James Carroll
Roberson, Charles Leander
Christie, Lorenzo :Manson Le.franchini, Charles
Scholari, Peter
:Martin, Richard
Crow, Samuel H
Scott, Thomas
Maxwell, George Albion
Davis, l:lamuel
Smith, William Mitchell
McElroy, Owen
Dedmon, Allen
Torry, Adelbert Earl
Nevill, John ,
Dedmon, Henry Pool
Totten, John Graham
Dedmon, John Washington Peck, Frank Ferdinand
Webster, James William
Pedrlni, Pompey
Forsyth, John
--4.3.
Peterson, Amel Lance
Gibson, William George

HILL'S FERRY LODGE, No. 236.
Newman, Stanislaus County,

Stated Muting11, Saturday of or next preculing Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Charles Edgar Trert.e, Senior Deaoon,
Alexander, Monroe Williams, Ma.ter,
Charles W1lifam Schank, Senior Warden, Joles Caln Junior Deacon
'
' - - , Marshal,
Nilse Andrew Thompson, Jun, "W;arden, - - - Andr"w Jack'n Worthington, l ·
Jasper Nicolaisen Stnhr, Treasurer,
r Bt6111ardl,
Joha Rossell,
James McE!roy Lathrop, &cretar:y,
Thomas Grayson Yancy, 7'y7.er.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Murry, Joseph Francie-2.

Lafranchini, Antone

WITHDRAWN;

Davie, Charles Arthar-2,

Hiller, James John Orinbach

Paat Mastera 1

Charles Parsons Harris,
Albert Lansing Yates,

DIED: ,

Crow, John Logan-1.

Henry Klehn,
George Henry Crow,

James McElroy Lathrop,
Alexander Munroe Williams.

MASTER MASONS:

SURPRISE VALLEY LODGE, No. 235.
Ced•rville, Modoc County,

Stated Meeting11, Saturday of or n~t prect.ding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Frederick Adolphas Sawtelle, Br. Deacon,
William Mnllins, Master,
John Ellison Sly, Junio1· Deacon, •
John Heath Bonner, Sen\or Warden,
John Burnam Lindermann, Jun. Warden, George Clark Tnrner, Marahal,
l ste111ard8 '
William Francie Himes,
William TOreBBler, 7'reaaurer,.
'
Everett Edison Woodruff, f
Thomas Henry Johnstone, &cretary,
Henry Lyman Merrifield, 7'yler.

I

Bambe.uer, Oharles Lonie Ford, Albert Joselyn
Hnnt, Martin Lnther
Bartch, Frederick
Banker, Nathaniel Emmons Kilburn, Ga1
Knhns, Elmer
Carpenter, Jobn Hoskins
J.otighead, George
Crow, Edward, Wayman
Marlln, .Abraham Lincoln
Dalby, Samnel Price
McDonald, Mark Elmer
Draper, Wilber Fisk
Mills, Gilbert Ellis
Dunning, Willie Albion
Mills, Henry Hammer
Edgecomb, Frederick
Mitchell, William Henry
Ela, Robert Lane
Morris, Julias
Elfers: Charles Diedrick

Pfitzer, Frank
Rally, Francis William
Rhea, John James
Robison, Elisha Henry
Schmidt, Hans Jorgensen
Stratton, John Angastns
Totman, William Newell
Tncker, Horner Celsfs
Wilson, Richard Moody
Yates, John Davis-46.

. DEGREES:

WITHDRAWN:

Wood, David Mortimer-1.

Waogenhelrn, Jnlin11-l.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

DIED:

Gorham, John James-1.

Wood, David Mortimer-I.

1048

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

1896.J

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of O<ilifornia.

Showier, George Edwin
McNary, James David
Harrington, Tennent
Terrill, John Roach
Harrington, William Merrill Mead, Alrred
Thayer, Albert Austin
Miller, Charles Herman
Bart, James
Totten, Marco Bozzarfs
Mogk, John Oharles
Herd, William Nichols
Paine, Sumner Frederick Tnson, Henry
Hicok, Lora Lean
West, Joseph Simeon
Hubbard, William Henry Peterson, Peter
Wills, John Perry
Pirkey, Frank Zea
Huber, John
Wilson, Oyrus Pogue
Poundstone, Jessie
Jackson, John Lowry
Winkler, James Jackson
Rnmmelsbnrg, Selig
Kass, John
Zumwalt, Ivy George-68.
Schillig, Bennett
Logan, Hugh ~
McLean, Francis George Seawell, Josiah Lauderville

GUADALUPE LODGE, No. 287.
Guadalupe, Santa Barbara County,

Stated Matings, Mooday of or next preceding Ji'ull Moon.
OFFICERS1

Nathaniel McGuire, &nior Deaoon,
William Thomas Lucaa, Master,
Giuliano Clemente Bonetti, Jun. Deac<m,
Marlo Antonio Barca, Senior Warden,
David Lewty, MarahaZ,
John Gioiomazzi, Junior Warden,
Severino Zanetti, l Stewards,
Battista Pezzoni, 7'reasurer,
Elvizio Righetti, f
Stephen Oampodonioo, Secrelary,
Emilio Bontadelli, Pylilr,

FELLOW ORAFl' :

Jones, Edwin Foster-I.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Paat Maater1

Blodgett, Hiram Daniel

William Thomas Lucas,
Kaiser, Lazarus Meyer
Laughlin, Henry James
Norris, John R.

Cook, Frank William-2.
RESTORED:

lllAl!TER MASONS :

Birra, Gniseppe .
Bonetti, Albert
Bonetti, Johll Battista
Gormely, Thomas

Schlllig, Bennett-I.
Righetti, Robertino
Tognini, Giuliano
Waegatt, Cornellus-21.

WITHDRAWN:

Robinson, Samuel Ale.xander-2.

Lining, John Henry

Dll!:D:

Eagle, Thomas Benton-I.

COLUSA LODGE, No. 240.
Colusa, ColtUa County,

SANTA. ANA LODGE, No. 241.

StaJ,ed. Matings, Saturda11 of or mxt preceding Full Moon.

Santa Ana, Oran&'e County.
OFFICERS1

Robert Cosner, Ma.ur,
Oscar Robinson, Senior Warden,
Jacob Henry Miller, Junior Warden,
Charles Richardson, 7'reasurer,
William Thomas Beville, Secretary,
- - - - - - , Chaplain,

Edwin Swinford, Senior Deacon,
Emil Jacobson, Junior Deaoon,
Burr Hudson Mitchell, Marshal,
Claude Edwi~ de St. Maurice, l Stewar<U,
f
John Wells 011ley,
Harrison Alexander Roe, Pylet·.

Pa•t Maaten1

William Frank Goad,
Joseph Bailey Cooke,

Edward Winslow Jones,
Joseph Byron Stanton,

Rotheous Augustus Gray.

Barnett, Robert Augustus
Brown, Miah Waverly
Buster, William Harrison
Cheney, John
Clark, Jacob Brown

Stated Meetings, Friday of or nezt preuding Full Moon.

l

OFFICERS;

John Philip Greeley, illaatsr,
David Trnax Brock, Senior Warden,
Frank Vegeley, Junior Ward11n,
Martin Lother Lane, Tr11aaurlll",
John Thomas Nourse, Secretary,
Lucius Norman Emerson, Ohaplain,

Roy Jackson Young, Senior Deacon,
Ms.x Reinhaus, Junior Deaoc>n,
John Lewis Dryer, Marahal,
l StF-1.0anla
Henry Diers,
'
George Jacob Ruble man, f
Erastus Clinton Jones, Tyler.

Pan Maateru
MASTER MASONS:

Ford, George K
Davis, George Mabery
Gibbons, ClilfordHolcomb
De Jarnett, John Burris
De Jarnett, William Burris Glasecock,BenjaminBrooke
De St. Manrice,Chas.Albert Goad, James Wilkins
De St. Maurice,Geo.Edward Grover, Johnson

1049·

Elisha Gallup,
Marion Albert Menges,
Milton John Bundy,
Ezekiel Bernard Smith
Carlos Frederick Mansur, Roscoe Edwin Hewitt,
Elclmes Young Wright:
John Lewis Dryer,
Andrew l:!nydcr,
George Ackerm'n Whidden, Thomas Milan Nichol 11,
Robert Burns Guthrie,
Charles Sumner McKelvey, Jamee Rs.udoiph Medlock,

43

1050

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

(Aug. 1,

1896.l

To the Grand Lorlt]e of OaJ,ijornW,.

. 1051

H.lSTER MASONS:

Mead, Oharles Abie!
Ashleigh, Frank Dunette Fergoson, Walter Perry
Mendelson, Marke
Fife, Charles Cordelia
Baker, Albert Miller
Mills, Ira D
Belcolm,Bayles Greenwood Fox, Charles William
Newman, Samnel Jacob
French, Cb.arles Edwin
Bisby, Robert Lee
Bowers, Addiaon Orockett Garnett, William Muldrow Parks, Joseph
Peabody, Henry Adams
Gildmacher,Josepb
Boyd, James Patton
Polter, Albert Alexander
Gildmacher, Levi
Brown, Asher Pr.rk
Preble, George Edward
Brown, Charles Goodwin Hall, Jamel! Hedges
Price, John David
Halse!, Hiram Shelby
Brown, James Petrie
Riohardeon, Erwin Ellsw'th
Haywood, John Saxon
Back, John Henry
Hardinr, Foster William Riveria, Fran9oie
Batler, Thomas Spafford
Robinson, Harvey Jndson
Harrie, Richard Thomas
Butz, Adolph
Rose, Jacob
Hill, John Wright
0111Jahao, Henry S
Shrode, David Klnr
Hill, Bamael
Obilton, Robert l>'rancis
Smith, James Thompson
Insley, George Thomas
Chisman, James Monroe
Smith, Bamnel Franklin
Jacobson, Max
Ohrlsman, Ernest Lynn
Stanton, George Manson
Johnson, William Ira
Olillord, John Vincent
Tillotson, Elizar
Close,Nathan'I Mills Perry Jones, David Fowler
Towner, James Willl11m
Jones, Francie Asbury
Cone, Thomae Edward
Tracy, Theron Henry
Kelley, John
Cook, Thomas Jefferson
Kimball, John Wesley Troe Torner, Jamee AndrAw
Cooke, Edwin Deacon
Torner, Patrick Henry
King, Jamee William
Ootter, James S
Crookshank, Mile Mcinnes Lamson, William Bradford Wade,Renben Alex'r Slaven
Waffie, Edwin Dwight
Leck, Henry
Cummings, Jamee
Wall, William Borgese
Lee, Stewart
Davidson, Oollon James
Warner, George Bradford
Levy, Lonie
Dorman, Dndley Marvin
Lotz, Wiiiiam Frederick Wilcox, Charles Wb.eaton
Eccles, Robert
Wilhite, William Lane
Edinger, Ohrist'r Oolambns Magoon, Phemmer
Mathews, Henry Thomas Wood, Allen Jefferson
Emerson, Lewis Bleeper
Yost, Charles
Fairbanks, OharlesDevine Matthews, Mitchel
F11rman, Fernando Roswell MoTarnahan, Samnel Bar'n Yoong, Jacob Olark-118.
l!'ELLOW CRAFTS:

Oumming, Daniel Ehenezer-2.

Besaonett, George Painter

ENTERED APPBENTIOE :

MAGNOLIA LODGE, No. 242.
Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County,

Stated Meeting•, Friday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICE:RS1

I

Benjamin Franklin Thomas, Mamr,
William Zimmerman, Senior Deaoon
W11lter Barton Oope, Senior Warden,
Thomas Henry Hicks, Junior Dea~,
Lanre Richardson, Jr., Junior Warden, Isak 0 Pederson, Marshal,
John Delos Peer, 7Tiraaurer,
Moses Hanner, l SUrr.Dartl.8,
Methodlns Wesley Richards, Secretary, Samael Frost, r
John Thompson Johnston, Oho.plain,
Daniel Moyer (of Santa Barbara No. 192), 7Yler.
Paet lllaatera:

Benjamin Franklin Thomas,
John Delos Peer,
Frank Adelbert Conant,

John Wesley Heck,
Abisba Swain,
MASTER MASONS :

Andrewa, James Henry
Ha!ltlinger, James Oharles Seely, Samuel Satterlee
Axtell, Joseph Daniel
Hawley, Theodore Stone Shotwell, Marcus Arata
Beckwith, George Eli
Hawley, Walter Aognstue Smith., James Wilson (No. I)
Bond, Oharles Scott
Hayman, Albert
Smith, James Wilson (No. 2)
Clark. Thomas
Hollister, Harold Albert Smith, Rnfus Dana
Olark, Wilson Lincoln
Bunter, John Milton
Spring, William Fenton
Coffey, Wilson Rife
Linqnest, Angnst Lndvik Steele, Walter Dana
Onnnane, William Bernard Moore, Andrew D.
Treadway, Ollnton William
Damm, Andrew
Morris, William Beacham Waters, William Gardner
Everett, Fred Robert
Northrop, .Henry Whitney Welle, Charles
Garcia, Kannel Francisco Owen, Benjamm Franklin Williams, Geo. Marlin
Gonrley, Eliakim Topper Owen, William Rensalear Wilson, Jerome Oalvin-58.
Granger, Joseph Riley
WITHDRAWN:

Borrows, Willlam Bradford-!.

Aastin, James Henry

Barson, Edward

WITHDRAWN:

Knepper, George Edward-3.

EXPELLED;

Shale, Samnel Olarence-2.

Mcintyre, Edgar 0

Willillm Preston Botcher,
· William Scott Day.

Bonardy, Peter (B• .1..)-l.

DIED:

Fosdick, Henry Osro
Halbert, Benj. Franklin

Harmon, Henry Harrison

_,,

DIED:

Hnmphreye, Charles Wilson

Manning, William Abial

Robbins, Martin Van Bnren-2.

1052

Returns of the Subordinate Lod,ges

1896.]

[Aug. 1,

To the Grand Lodqe of Oalifornia.

1053

Put Masters :

George Hadsell
Eugene Angostns Trefethen,
Chas. Henry Redington,
Charles Wesley Gilbert, *'John Christopher Gohrman, Herbert Atherton Glines,
Albert Atwater MoKeen, Eugene S Perkins,
William Waterman Neal.

EUCALYPTUS LODGE, No. 243.
Hayward&, Alameda County.

MASTER MASONS:

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or ne:x:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

William Edward Rowlands, Master,
Henry Angnst Bha~er, Senior .Deaoon,
John Chisholm Crooke, Senior Warden, John Gamble, Junior Deaoon,
Edward Henry Clawiter, Junior Warden, William Franklin Blanchet, Marakal,
Charles Prowse, 7reaaurer,
Carl Oscar Dah_le,
.
l Stewards,
Henry Ernst Brunner, Seoretary,
William Franklm Darlmg, I
George Washington T,yons, Ohaplain,
Benjamin Franklin Townsend (of Equity Lodge, No. 252, Monrovia, Iowa), 'Iyler.

l

Paat Maaters •

James Davis Anstin,
Lewis Henry Brown,
George William Frick,

Horry Wert Meek,
Charles Stuart Long,

Thomas Bartlett Rossell,
Leslie Alexander Jordan.

MASTER MASONS :

Rice, Harvey Dnncan
Alexander, Geo. Edmond Johnson, Peter
Rice, Harvey Wood
Bflhrmann,Lnd'g Geo. Jae. Jones, Algernon Sidney
Sequeria, John Joseph
Bradford, Alonzo
Knox, Milo
Smalley, David S
Crooks, John Edwin
Knox, William
Smith, Christian Hansen
Lane, Jacob Cooper
Dennis, Frank
Thompson, Bans
Everett, Calvin Damon
Lee, Charles Henry
Whybark, Geo. Washington
Fedderson, Henry Martin Long, Percy Vincent
Glass, Clement Roland
Meek, William Ellsworth Winton, CraJton
Grindell, George Edward Owen, William Blackw:ood Wolff, William
Wooten, John Edward-48.
Hetherington, John
Peterman, Henry Lewis
WITHDRAWN:

Hale, John Edward

Mohr, Henry Panl

Simpson, Michael Lewis-3.

Aldrich, Bogh Shafter
Finley, Chas. John Jasper Moore, Robert H
Baker, Alvin Walter
Graham, Edward Joseph
Morey, Charles Erastns
Barnett, Rufus Putnam
Greenfield, Wm. Crashay Murphy, Eugene Joseph
Barney, John Nelson
Greenwald, Frank Julius Nicol, William Scott
Bassett, James Madison
Harrigan, John William
Partridge. Abram Peter
Bice, John
Heckel, William Frederick Pett, David
Bishop, John Nelson
Herman, Andrew
Pierson, Willard Bubble
Blanchard, Jnmes Milton Hill, James Terrill
Prothero, Samuel Welsh
Brann, Michael
Hunt, Jeremiah .D
Roseberry, James
Buchanan, Alexander
Isaac, John Dove
Sartori, Aagnstns Paolo
Bozzo, Benjamin Heywood Isaacs, Alfred Solomon
Searles, Niles, Jr.
Carson, John Lovell
Johnstone, John Crawford Sherbnrne, Chllll.Ferdinand
Champion, Louis Frederick Johnstone, Rob't Crawford Slavin, John Thompson
Chase, Quincy Acastns
Kelly, Martin Michael
Snook, Charles Edwartl
Kolp, William
Snook, William Bayer
Climo, Samuel
Coates, Thomas
Kryster, Charles John
Strachaner, ChRrles
Cotton, George Dongl!\s
Kydd, Isaac Fergason
Botton, William
Crawford, Frank Reed
Lange, Frederick William Tait, Allen James
Collen, John
Langford, Thomas
Torrance, George Henry
Cumming, William George Long, William
Walters, Valentine
Watrous, Ernest St1mley
Dallerup, Benjamin
Lowell, Frank
Dallernp, John
L11msden, William Stephen Whitehead, Thomas
Marr, Archibald Campbell Willard, Charles Martin
Deaner, Hiram Franklin
Deckard,Stephen Anderson Mar3ells, Robert Lyle
Wilson, James B
Dierdorft, William Perry
McComb, Edward
Woods, William Michael
Douglas, Frank Johnson
McGuire, Jesse Milton
Wooley, Ellphat Burt
Fay, Max Henry
Moore, John Thomas
Wylie, Robert Pedan-99.
FELLOW ORAFT:

Eames, George Washington-1.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Blood, Warren Home

ALCATRAZ LODGE, No. 244.
We•t Oakland, Ala:meda County.

Stated Meetings, firat Monday in each month.
OFFICERS•

William Waterman Neal, Maater,
Frank Frederick Jackson, Senior .Deacon,
Henry Bernard Schindler, Ben. Warden, Angust Adolph Wrede, Jun. .Deacon,
William Sutton, Junior Warden,
Henry Trombley, Alarakal,
Daniel RoberU!on, 7rea1urer,
'\Villiam Alex. Hooter, }stewards,
Robert Grant Graham, Secretary,
.tohn Henry McKeen,
William Riley Story, zyZer.

t

Hill, Samnel-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Franklin, Job Henry Richard-I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON.PAYMENT OF DUF.8:

Medros, Joseph Jason
Monnett, Louis
Davis, Thompson

Naismith, Gavin

Vining, Albert Reed4.

DIED:

Keyer, John-2.

•Nar:r..-Bro. John Ohrietopher Gohrm.an. hi.a been missing einoe Novemb8r 17. 189i.
Notices of tbiA case have been sent to &11 Ma.ao'liO Lodges with.in reaoh. The brother wu l&et
seen ou Bro&dwa.y, Oakland, November 11, 189,. since whioh time no trace or nawa of hie
whereabouts has been received by hie Lodge or his f&miiy.

1054

Returns of the Stibordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

LAUREL LODGE, No. 245.
WWow., Glenn C.:oanty.

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

POMONA LODGE, No, 246.
Pomona, Lo• An.rel.,. Coa.nty.

Stated Meeting1, fir1t Saturday in each month.

Stated Meeting1, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERlih

William Morton Finch, Senior Deaoon,
George Wesley Orr, Mall.er,
Robert Augustus Lonr;, Senior Warden, Francis Davis Stewart, Junior Deacon,
Jamee Buchanan Millington.Jr. Warden, Logan Porter Tooley, MarlhaZ,
Hugh Neilson,
l Stet11ardll,
William Catlett Bailor. 'l'reawrer,
John Henry Zumwalt, [
Abram Andrew Nordyke, 86uretary,
Hiram Leroy West, Tyler.
- - · - - - , Chaplain,
Pa•t Ma•ter• 1

:Moses Hochheimer,
William Ferrington M118on,
Alex. Hamilton Willard,

Fred'k Gnstavns Crawford, Henry Baker Elliott,
Abram Andrew Nordyke, George Wesley Orr.
MASTER MASONS:

Bailey, John Amitv
Johneon, James Otis
Barber, Henry Dwight
Klemmer, Jacob Philip
Barham, Marcus Lafayette Marshall, William Walker
Bumgarde, George
:Maupin, Panl Dimet
Cowart, Zachariah Taylor McMartin, John
Commings, Samuel Henry Mellor, George
Dethless, :Marx Claussen Merrill, Abbott
Dudley, George Dickson
Merrill, William Reed
Duncan, Addison Eugene Moyer, Samnel
Eidenmuller, Wm. Cooper :Moller, Joseph
Freeman, Frank
Neate, Sydney Herbert·
Freeman,William Valentine Newman, Charles
Garnett, Peter Richard
Patton, John Armstead
Heeren, Henry Amandns Putman, Frank L
Hirsch, Otto Nathan
Randolph, John Andrew

Raper, Orville Lawrence
Rasor, Andrew Jackson
Rhodes, Eustace Howard
Rice, John
Sales, William Humphrey
Sersanone, J oho Frank
Smith, William A
Snowden, Geo.Washington
Snowden, James William
Spect, Nebraska Kansas
Stanton, Hiram Co1·idon
Troxel, Joseph B
Walker, Henry Walter
Wickes, Harvey Orrin-60.

FELLOW CRAFT:

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Klemmer, Lewis Jacob-1.

Olde, George Llnooln-1.

RESTORED;

WITHDRAWN;

Smith, William A-1.

Gregeon, Charles-1.
DIED:

Putman, Jelfereon Elmore

1055

Wickes, Oyrns R-2.

OFFICERS1

Warner Sherman Winters, Mailer,
James Lamiston Howland, Sen. Warden,
Franklin Edgar Dndderar, Jun. W11rden,
George Heath, TreaBUrer,
John Adam Gallop, Secret11ry,
Edward Henry Hatchinaon, Oha.plain,

J.>hn Leonard Gallop, Senior Deaoon
Abram Skinner, Junior DeMon,
'
Eugene Leroy Hill, M11rshal,
William Irwin Brink,
l Stewards
Charles Harrison Roberds, f
'
Henry Clay Anderson, Tyler.

Pa•t Maater• 1
William Thomas Martin,
John Davideon B. Browne, Russell William Henry,
Howe Philip,
John Snmmerlleld Calkins, Albert Sinclair Avery,
J oho Adam Gallup,
Edward Henry Hutchinson, George Wash'n Dndderar
Warner Sherman Winter~, Simon Noney Landon,
William Rllt>y Phillipe, '
Albert Elisha Olark,
Jacob .Freyermuth,
James Montgomery Nichols,
Carleton Seaver,
MASTER MASONS:

Armstrong, James Lapsley Ford, Seldon Irving
Morris, Noah
Bell, William Alonzo
Fox, Charil's James
Niebel, Frank
Brasher, Horace Clyde
Frame, James Neely
Paokard, John Elwood
Brewer, Porter
Frankel, Samnel
Pierce, Ulysses Grant Baker
Bryan, Alva Cartis
Gallop, Orrin
Raynes, Frank
Oaldwell, Andrew Blcton Garthside, Joseph Relton Reed, alfred Riley
Oaldwell, Samuel
Given, Bryce Morrow
Rogers, Matthias Gossett
Oamp, James Bradford
Gerling, Edgar Schroder Rolph, Samuel Johnson
Camp, Orrin Bridgee
Hansen, Hans Brodersou Smith, Edwin Bowman
Carrier, Elisha Bos worth Harrie, Arthur Nicholls
Smith, William Daniel
Clark, Henry
Hel'te, Rudolf
Soper, William Wallace
Cook, John William
Hibbard, Ethan Allen
Thatcher, .Amos David
Cowlea, Lamon Warner
Hicklin, Edward
Tincher, James William
Debranner, Vi~us
Hotfmaster,Edg'r Joa.Lemp Titos, Stephen Eri
Dreher, Charles John
Haloe, Victor Edward
Vincent, Harvey Horatio
Dreher, Peter 1ohn
Jess, George
Warner, Orion Austin
Dorsey, Kewen Hilliard
Jess, Stoddard
Wasson, John
Douglass, Joseph
Kellogg, Oharles Giles
Welch, Everett Haskell
Drimll, James Alexander Keroholf, Hermann Henry Welch, William Ormand
Dudderar, George Otis
Kiler, William Harrison
Whvte, John
Dunn, Joseph Henry
Loney, James
Wilbur, Albert Harper
Edward, George
Molntosh, Robert
Wildman, William
Eels, George Nelson
Mead, Henry
Wilkinson, Henry Patterson
Eagan, James Baghart
Molyneaux, Francis Asbury
-97.
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Dowling, Thomas Jackson-I.
WITHDRAWN:

Thierman, Thomas fiall

Thomas, Wintleld Oorwin-2.

1056

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Ambrose Charles Delos
Bryan, H~rvey Harrison
Eagan, George Campbell

. w·ii·
Martrn,
1 1am Cl a1·b orne
Nair, Thomae Jelfer~on
Overton, John Lewie

Whitson , Benjamin Snyder
Bl . -8
Yoong, Angnstns air ·

DIED:

Overton, James Willlam-1.

FRESNO LODGE , No. 247.
Freano, Fresno County.

Staua Meeting•, Frid,ay of or nut pl'euding Full Moon.

1896.]

1b the Grand Lodge of California.

Levy, Joseph William
Olufs, Olnf Bernard
Strother, John Pryor
J,evy, Nyman
O'Neal, Charles
Bnmmerfleld, Jacob
Lynch, Thomas Halpin
Peachman, Ferdinand
Swartz, Alex. Culberson
Lynch, William
Peterson,Nathan'l Houston Sweeney, Albert Hamlet
Lynn, Theodore Ayres
Phillips, Wi!liam Walter
Trobridge, David Strong
Machen, William Wallace Pnleston, William Henry Tuller, Orlando Prentiss
Madsen, Theodore
Reno, Frederick Rensselaer Tunzi, Norberto
Martin, William Henry
Richter, Charles
Trueworthy, Henry Edward
.McConnell, David Joshua Beadier, James
Van Meter, Edgar Snowden
McKinnon, Albert Dwight Shannon, William Russell Walden, Wesley McHenry
Mo.Mullen, John
Shields, William
Webster, James Alfred
Miller, Oharl!ls Hermann Shipp, William Walter
Webster, Mark
Mitchell, William
Shoobert, Chas. Waldon S. ,White, James'Riggs
Mulholland, Robert Smith Smith, Albert Fran,klin
White, John James
Mumford, Ira Edgar Leroy Smith, Anson Burlingame Williamson ,~Charles
Munn, Charles Anderson Smith, Archibald Alexander Wilson, George Dorsey
Myer, Isaac
Smith, George Washington Woodward, Oscar J
Noble, Frank Charles
Smith, Samuel Nathaniel Zener, Stephen Olin-133.
Olney, Albert Downing
Stevens, James

OFFICER 81

WiJllam Seymour Badger, Senior IJeacon,
Charles William Barrett, Master,
Lewie Oliver Stephens, Smim' Warden, Danville Decker, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Jelferson Kirk, Junior Warden, Dnncan Donald Allison, Marshal,
James Wiley Smith,} Stewardll,
Leopold Gnndelflnger, Treasurer,
Louie Manuel,
Thomas Henry Warrington, Seoretarl/,
John Marshall Garrett, Tylttr •
William Harrison Martin, Ohap!ain,

FELLOW ORAFT :

Hinds, Herman James-1.
ENTERED APPRENTIC F.8:

Bennett, William Joseph
Bolin, James Francis
Burks, William Tillman
Hughes, James Edward

1."ast Masters:

Angns Marion Clark,
Edward Darnell Edwards,
Herman Levy,
Bamnel Bell Tombs,
Joseph Robertson Reily,

Edward Sharp Valentine,
George Hayes Monroe.
Duncan Donald. Allison,
John Andrew Mattingly,

1057

Lafavor, David Dickson
Ockenden, Lewis Wm. G. G.
Bidden, Silas 8

Biggs, Olmrles Francis
Isherwood, Harry
Vail, Charles Alvin-10.

RESTORED:

Wiley James Tinnin,
John M Pngh,
Henry Conrad Warner,
William Samnel Lane.

Cotten, Charles William
Lynn, Theodore ,!yers
Edwards, Edward Darnell Richter, Charles
WITHDRAW N:

Aoetln, John Rueben

M~ER MASONS:

Goldstein, Alexander
Alexander, Bamnel A
Chnrch, George Emery
Goodman, Solomon B
Appley, Jndson
Cohn, Solomon Jacob
Grimes, George Clayton
Anstin, Robert Harrison
CoJlins, Alfred Scott
Barsh, JBmes Walton
Baird, Robert
Collins, James Darwin
H edges, Henry Phlllp
Beall, Joseph Layman
Comfort, Aaron R
Heiskell, William King
Benas, Isaac
Cosgrave, Ge<>rgc
Reifman, Allen Fletcher
Bernhard, Emil Frederick Outten, Charles William
Rogne, Samnel Lassen
Berry, Fnlton Greeu
Davies, Johu Foster
Hollenbeck, J11.mes H
Bomgardner, John Adam Davison, William
Hughes, William Marshall
Bowdish, Percival
Deardorff, Albert (}
Bradford, Ward
Dti Loug, Charles _warren Jackson, Andrew
Brooks, Albert Preston
DreBBel, John Ohnstopher Jackson, Bamnel
Johnson, George Lewis
Brooks,WilliamWashlngton Dusy, Frank
Johnson, Rasmus Bartholin
Buker Humphrey Oscar Edwards, Presley N
Johnson, Bam11el Walter
Burne:is Rector
, Elliott, George
Keating, James Thomae
Bnrrou~hs, George
Enloe, Henry Enoc~ .
Laning, Frank
Bnsb Edward Everett
Ferguson, John Wilham
L evy, Albert
Bntl:r, Alban Bernard
Galloway, John Dewey

Russell, Henry Davis
Tombs, Samuel Bell-6,

Elliott, Charles Cornelius

Rossell, H enrylDavi-S .

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:

Barling, Alfred Dare
Dexter, Frederick Bartel
Griffin, Albert

Hughes, Thomas Edwin
Lynn, Theodore Ayers
Richter, Charles

Richter, John Albert
Taylor, James-8.

ALTUR AS LODGE, No. 248.
Altaraa, Modoc County.

Stated .MeetingB, Saturday of or nut mcceeding Full Moon.
OFFICER 81

David, Wilkinson Jenks, Ma.fer,
William E Armstrong, Senior Deac.m ,
John Charles Rachford, SeniorWa1·den, John Edward Baker, Junior Dsacon,
William Jamee Ooombs, Junior Warden, William A Salisbury, Mar1hal,
James Todd Laird, Treasurer,
- - - - - - • l StewardB
Silas Washington Pepperdine, Sscretary, Achilles Eastin,
f
'
Alfred Gagnon, Tyler.

44

1058

Returns of the SUbordinate Loil!Jes

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

To the Grand LO<ige of Oaliforni,a.

1059

Paat .Maater•:

James Todd f,aird,
William .A Salisbnry,
Andrew Jackson Myers,

David Wilkinson Jenks,
Marvin Monroe Wakefield,

Olark, Lother Goddard
Gibson, Samuel Carroll
Laner, Isaac

Matson, John
Mowberg, Angnetne
Noble, Emery H

William E Armstrong,
Albert Angnstns Smith.

ADIN LODGE, No. 250.
Adln, l!lodoci County.

MASTER MASONS:

Warner, Charles Sloan
Weller, Oliver D-21.

OFFICERS1

ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Claflin, Oharlee L

Ballard, James Larndry

Smith, William Angnetlie-8.

WITHDRAWN:

Jones, Jamee Thaddens-2.

Hill, Charles Edmond

Stated Meaing11, Saturdav of or nezt preuding Ful,l Moon.
Warren Dale Packwood, Ma&er,
George Horace Knight, Senior Deaoon,
Francie Marion Kesserling, Sen. Warden, Morris Blaske, Junior Deacon ,
Frank Pierce Parrish, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - - , Mar1hal,
John Sebast.ian Fruits, Trecuurer,
Marvin Carlton Palmer,
l Stew d8
Elisha Parker Grnbbs, Beoreta.ry,
Geo. Freelon Hneston Rice, f
ar '
Eisley Wiman Groves, Tyler.

t!USPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bayley, Simeon Stoval
Dale, Elias
Estee, Lance 0

Laveck, William
Mark, Joseph

Pierce, John Milton
Wood, John-7.

Paat Maetera•

Leonidas Hamlin Hopkins,
George Horace Knight,
Jamee Clinton Lewis,

Joseph Franklin Parrish,
Thomas Alex. Roseberry,
Charles J ohn McOoy,

Elisha Parker Grnbbs,
J oho Bobastian Frnits,
Warren Dale Packwood.

MASTER MASONS :

GREENVILLE LODGE, No. 249.

Fairfield, David
Lapoint, Joseph Fernand Richardson, Joseph
Groves, Jerome Charles
Peck,;Jobn Loveman
Baling, Richmond
Hall, James Gilmore
Preeton,Edmond Benj.G.T. Smith, Charles Aognstns
Harbert, William Franklin Rice, Charles William
Talbot, Thomas Irvin
Harrell, Jae. Porter Grove Rice, Geo.Freelon Hueston Wilaon, Thomas Walter-31.
Lapoint, Gonzagne Lois
Rice, Thomas J elferson

QreenTUle, Plnma• County.

WITHDRAWN :

State.d Meetinga, Saturday of or next aucceeding Full Moon.

Corrao, Henry David-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUF.8:

OFFICERS•

Robert William Yoong, MIUltm',
Gaetave Herman Wo~tere, Senior Deacon,
John Alexander Christie, Senior Warden, John R Murray, Junwr Deaoon,
William Thomas Treleaven, Jr. Warden, - - -- - - , Mar1hal,
Robert Leslie McGill, 7reaaurer,
- - - - - - , ~ Stl!IDard.11,
Theo. Frelinghnyeen Emmons, Secretary, --,
Donald William McKenzie, 'l'yler.

Barrett, J oho Riston
Hitchoook, Thome.a Ashley ;

Kellogg, Elisha.

Kinckler, Jo110ph--'.

DIED :

Blaske, Albert

Brown, Hiram Solomon-2.

Paat Masten•

Robert William Yoong,
John R Mnrray,

Theo. Frelinghuysen Emmons,
Kenneth McLeod,

John Alexander Christle,
Jamee Elisha Perry.

Bodie, Mono County.

MASTER MASONS:

Grant, Angne Dnncan
Harland, Henry Lnmley

Hathaway, Hiram Jackson
McMiiian, Alex. Dongald
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Cameron, Alexandcr-1.

BODIE LODGE, No. 252.

Standart, George-lo.

Stated Muting8, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Hngh McCaghren, Master,
Alexander Drennan, Senior Deaoon,
Frank Edmond Quinville, Sen. Warden, Frederick William Williams, Jr. D11acon,
Archie Graham, Junior Warden,
An1el Rowley Bnrnslde, Marshal,
James Stuart Oain, 7reaBUrer,
James Wa'8on, l &etaard.I,
Francis Marion Smith, Secretary,
William Tnrley, f
John Johnson McKenzie, 'l'yler.

Returns of the Suhordinate Lod1Je11

1060

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lod,ge of Oalifornia.

Pa•t Maatera 1

George Kenny Fitzpatrick,
Francie Marion Smith,

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Thomas Joseph McDonald,

.Hugh Mccaghren,

White, Edmond-I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

MASTER MASONS :

Irwin, William Allen
Boyd, Nathaniel W
Conger, Peter B
Keahlee, Thomas Ash
Glynn, Martin
Kelly, Joseph
Hawke, Jamee Angostoe
Kister, Oscar Hugo
Reath, Warwick Ptolemy Kydd, David Phill!ps
Hector,A.br11ham Frederick Langley,,Exll Henry
Hick, William
lllcAfee, Robert
Holl, Jesse Cunningham
McAlpine, John

Davidson, John Russell

Morgan, Watkin
Parr, John Forrest
Pierce, Richard Thom11R
Pryor, John
Radcliffe, Charles Clarence
Siegel, Sigmond
Travis, Abner Andrews
Williamson, Robert Jardine

_Reddina-, Sh. .ta County.

Francie, J oeeph Corde-1.

Stated Meetinga, third Saturday in each month.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

OFFICERS•

Smith, Jacob-2.

Butler, Samuel Allen

John Richard Lowden, Master,
Peter Glasser, Senior Warden,
William Ora Blodgett, Junior Warden,
Oh11nncey C11rroll Boeh, '.freiuurer,
William Pierce McKean, Secretary,
Edward Alexander Reid, Ohaplain,

WITHDRAWN:
I

Bnmp, George Henry
Goodall, Jamee Edward

Honnewill, Frank Eugene
Honnewill, Napoleon Bonaparte

Tandy, George Wellingti>n-2.

READING LODGE, No. 254.

-37.

FELLOW CRA.F'.C:

.

1061

Newman, Thomas-6.

Arthur Mason Deal\, Senior Deacon,
William Mott Campbell, Junior Deacon,
Adolph Dobrowsky, Marahal,
Samuel Philip Fillman, l Stewards,
JoeephJ11lm11 Lefebvre, f
George Parish Jewett, ~1er.

Paat Maatera :

Franklin Pierce Primm,
Frank Mareh11ll Sw11Bey,
George Howard Sechrist,

Bamber, John
Beesmer, Andrew John
Brackins, S11mnel Elbert
Carpenter, William
Dennis, Leslie Mosley
Downing, le1111c Hayden
Eaton, J 11mee Parley
Fisher, Fabian
Hampton, Delano Wash'n
Hardin, Mark R.
Hart, William Cloyde
Herron, Mathe'\\' Wilkes

Saeltzer, Rodolph Moritz
Herzinger, John
Sanders, Edward
Houston, ThomllB James
Hunter, Joseph Hammond Sandry, S11muel
S.c11mm11n, James Freeman
Lawry, Olin Joseph
Seed, Alfred
Major, John Newton
Smithson, James Stanton
McCormick, James
Swedburg, Eric
Moody, Herbert Lyle
Weil, Sigmond
Nathan, Solomon
White, Sherman Tecumseh
Peterson, Albert F
Reynolds, Gilbert 811m'I J. Wilber, Roland Taylor
Williams, William Wallace
Reynolde,.John Edward
Wood, William Angoetus
Rohm, J. Thornton
-68.

LANDMARK LODGE, No. 253.

MASTER MASONS:

Madt&on, Yolo County.

Stated .Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding FuU Moon.
OFFICERS1

JOhn Samnel Tott, Master,
John George Fredericks, Sen. DeaCOll,
John~Gillieon Helm,'.SeniorWarden,
Corbin Newell, Junior Deacon,
William Evert Grim, Junior Warden,
Thomas Hall, Marshal,
William Hayes, 7Tea.rurer,
Charles Wellington Scott, l Stewards,
Francie Marion Strickland, Secretaru,
Rilford Genere.1 Tadlock, f
George Tandy, TylBr.
Past Maater••

John Samuel Tott,
Thomas Hall,

John George Fredericks,
John Ashby Tott, P. <J. M.
Francis Marion Strickland,
JUSTER MASONS:

Bland, J 11mes Milton
Brown, John ThomllS
Brown, Warren Alston
Caldwell, Edson Knox
Or11ig, Thornton
Da.vieeon, Benj. Fra.nklin

Ge.lvin, Henry
Orengo, ·Benjamin
Hilllker, Loren Warren
Ph11neteel, Lonie
How11rd,Edw'd Robertson Shulte, Henry Francie
Johnson, Henry Bonaparte Silberstein, Chae.A.. Adolph
Stephens, Josiah Joseph
Levy, Wolf
Metford, Henry Alfred
Tompkins, Joseph Millard
-30.

Thomae Borton Smith,
John Howard Miller,
Adolph Dabrowsky.

Chauncey Carroll Boeh,
Edward Alexander Reid,
William Pierce McKean,

I

ENTERED APPRENTICE!!:

Colaw, Benjamin Ami

Slater, W11lter Evane-2.
RESTORED:

Gilbert, S11muel Jonathan Reynolds-I.
WITHDRAWN:

De Brettville, Antone C. E. C. W.

Levy, Alexander-2.

DIED:

Miller, Frank- 1.

1062

Returns of the Subordinate Lodge,s

[Aug. 1,

1896~]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifomia.

1063

Paot lllaatera 1

Edwy Adelbert Burchard,
Charles Hartwell Oorson,

WELCOME LODGE, No. 255.
Lemoore, Kings County.

OFFICERSt

William Horace Sanborn, Master,
Fred Thompson Moore, Senior Deaoon,
John Henry Siegfried, Senior Warden, Darwin Beth Fish, Juntor Deacon,
Marcus C. Carter, Junior Warden,
John William Rhoads, Marshal,
Gilbert Edward Shore, '.lreasurer,
John Leopold Kurtz,! Slll'IDards
Julius Henderson Fox, Secretary,
Joseph Marriott,
f
'
William Price Hayes, 1)/ler.
Paat lllaatera 1

Geo. A. Joshua F. Brothers,
Thomas Chambers,

William Horace Sanborn.

Ayers, Allen Trnmbnll
Compton, Peter Wood:
Beckman, Henry Chriet'r Ferdun, Charles lllarsham
Blaisdell, Oharlee Edward Greenwell, George
Buck, Oharles Henry
Hageman, Charles
Churchman, Beiij. Oonway Harris, Samuel Milton
Chnrchman, Jamee Oonway Kettelman, David
Cogswell, Francie
Larrison, William Collis
Coleman, Frederick Wm. Nelson, Svend Christian
FELLOW ORA.FT :

RESTORED:

Fairchild, Thome.s-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Bright, Calvin Allen

Fairchild, Thomas-2.
DIED:

Agee, William .Monroe
Giiroy, Launcelot
Nathan, Louis David
Ayers, Andrew Mansfield Goodman, Joseph
Pe.lruer, Norman Leslie
Barry, James Charles
Hatch, Martin Payne
Railsback, Geo. Washington
Benton, John
Hurlbnt, Egbert Ray
Robinson, John Shelley
Bloyd, William Washington Kreyenhagen, Emil
Schwartz, Gottlob
Borrell, Lincoln D.
Lane, Oliver Perry
Stratton, George Draper
Camp, Winfield Sc.ott
Manning, Thomas Andrew Sweetland, Byron Kear
Childress, John
Marlow, William
Tobin, John Cotfman
Momson, Henry
Williams, Joel Wilson
Coffey, James
Curtis, Arthur Bibbings
Murphy, Richard Augustine Worswick, John
Esrey, Justin
Nathan, Herman
Worswlck, William Henry
Foley, Robert Emmet
-47.

Ellis, Ralph-1.

ENTERED APPRENTIOES :·

PENRHYN LODGE, No. 258.
Penryn, Placer Connty.

Stat&}, Meetings, Thursday of or nea:t preceding Fuit MOO'fl',

Nidilfer, David Perkins-2.

OFFICERSt

RESTORED:

Railsback, George Washington-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Chambers, William E
Brownstone, Alfred

Butler, Andrew B
Hill, Eleazer

Norton, Charles Willis
Peach, Marlin J.
Poppe, Frank
Sanborn, Horatio Wallace
Biegel, William Frederick
Smart, Franklin Newton
Sollars, Charlee-37.

Gum, Albert Kellar-I.

MASTER MASONS :

Gibbons, Lewis

Pleasant Hay Tindall.

MASTER MASONS :

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of OT mzt preceding Full Moon.

Gilbert Edward Shore,
Julius Henderson Fox,

Nathan Roswell Barbour,

Manter, Charles
Railsback, Geo. Washington

-8.

Charles Martin, Master,
James Edward ~·rench, Senior Deacon,.
Owen Roland Owens, Junior Deaoon,
John Gove Boggs, Senior Warden, t
Gustave Adolph Deiter, Junior Warden, David Roberts Owen, Marshal,
- - - - - - , ! Slew ds
Robert William Roberts, 1Tea8Urer,
f
ar '
Frederick Charles Miles, Secretary,
David Done.Id,
Nathan Bonnd Peck, Ohaplain,
Robert Wharton Ford, Tyler.
Paat lllaatera:

LODI LODGE, No. 256.
Lodi, San Joaquin County.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of OT nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Nathan Roswell Barbour, .Malter,
Oharles Henry Buck, Senior Deacon,
George Worley Le Moin, Senior Warden, John Millard Blodgett, Junior Deacon,
George Albert Foster, Junior Warden, Luman Oscar Gillespie, Marshal,
George Tristian Earle, ! S!e!Dards,
Ezekiel Lawrence, 7Tea11Urer,
James Doctor Hutfman, Secretary,
Leo Friedberger,
f
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,
John Ralodine Hale, 1}1ler.

Robert William Roberts,
Seneca Arthur Deuel,
Jas. Penpraze Medland Phi!lipe,

Frederick Oharlee Miles.

MASTER MASONS :

Barron, William
Boller, George Carl
Oranley, William
Dickerson, Thomas
Garnet, Alfred Edgerton

Hughes, David Griffith
Jones, David Humphrey
Laird, Samuel Clark
Lavere, Clifton Gillman
Logan, Robert Adelbert
WITHDRAWN:

M:oiles, Theodore-1.

Manley, Jae.Morley Ewart
Owens, Richard Hngh
Rae, James
Reith, John, Jr.
Severance, William Wallace
-28.

1064

Returns of the SUbordinate LO<lges

1896.]

[Ang. 1,

To the Grand Lodge of OaU:fornia.

Rotes, OGrant
Rouse, Gaylor
RuBBell, Doctor Thomae
Rossell, Zadoc
Sanker, Sylvester
Shugart, Kelita Davis
Smith, James Withers

EVERGREEN LODGE, No. 259.
Riverside, Riverside County.

Stated .M~tings, ji,rat Friday of each month.

St. Perrie, William
Stanton, Edward Blair
Stanton, Edward M
Stevens, Charles W
Stuart, Edward B
Thayer, George Richard
Tibbals, Barnabas

Tracy, Thomas
Vollmar, John
Walker, Slayton
Ward, George Franklin
Way, Ellsworth Henry
Widamao, Oliver P
Younkin, Albert-lSS.

OFFICERS a

FELLOW ORAFT:

William John Lamrick, Master,
William Austin Anderson, Senior Deacon;
George Dimock Onnoiogham, Sr. Warden, Rober~ Peogrilly Winters, Junior Deacon,
Byron Melnot Longfellow, Jr. Warden, David (} Mitchell, Marshal,
Meno 8 Bowman, freaaurer,
Charles Edward Attrell, t Ster.cards
Robert Preston Cundiff, Secretary,
Jamee McDougall,
f
'
George A Cleveland, Ohaplain,
George MorUmer Skinner, Tyler.

Hedges, Leonard Weyman-I.

Wilson Byron Russell,
Charles Wesley Filkins,
George Mortimer Skinner, Jamee William Johnson,
John Alex. Wm. Hamilton, Meno 8 Bowman,
Samuel Bond Hinckley,
Lorenzo Franklin Darling,
Frank Browne Morrell,
Walter Elmer Keith,
Kingsbury Sanborn,

ENTERED AP.PBENTIOES:

Hutson, Henry Wolsley

Charles Goodrich Atwood,
Albert Hermes,
Bartemus R. Singlet11ry,
Sydney Peany TreBBler,
Abraham Andrew Sulcer.

Lovell, Sturgis Oliver-2.
A.l!'FILIATED:

'

Johnson, Oharles FA-I •

•

Past Masters•

1065

WITHDRAWN:

Dyer, Otis Theron

Frost, George

Johlll!on, Charles F A-3.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Do Bois, Louis Conrt
Hellmer, Clarence Delaney
Howard, George Edward

Huft, Melvin Byron
Newman, Gustavus Olivio
Rodgerson, James

Roose, Frank
Shumway, John P-8.

MASTER MA.SONS:

Alguire, Myron
Dole, George Hathaway
Klinefelter, Peter K
Allatt, Horace Edmond
Douglass, Broce E
Lawrence, Merton L
Allen, Benjamin Franklin Dunbar, Frederick Martin Lightner, Felix
Loud, Adolphus Steinfield
Anderson, Obarles Fred'k Fairchild, Thomae
Anderson, William Henry F•nntain, Jabez Husted
Martin, Achilles
Fullerton, George Herbert Mason, IJwight Bieco
Baker, Judah Beare
Beamer, Jacob Eden
Gage, William Judson
McLeod, John Wiliam
Gladden, George B
McLeod, Lemuel James
Bettinger, George E
Bloom, S&mnel Monroe
Goneolns, Philip Andtew . Milliken, Peter
Bloom, Willi11m
Gray, Charles B
Mitchell, Eben Lester
Blue, Jamee Henry
Gregory, Lyman
Monroe, Peter
Boggs,Angnstns Waehing'n Growell, Emerson Henry .Moody, Edward Payson
Bonham, John
Rall, Priestly
Neuman, Lewie Henry
Handy, Benjamin Bnmpns North, John Greenleaf
Brockman, ;John W
Bulkley, Henry Demetrius Hawes, Frederick Norman Noyes, Joseph Sibley
Burgees, Olayson Sylvester Raye, Howard T.
Papineau, Ottley
Burnham, Daniel Heath
Hayt, William Augustus
Parkhurst, J oho Frederick
Oaldwell, AlbertAuguetine Rellmer, William Zeaman Pearson George M
Carr, William Wallace
Henshaw, Latin R.
Peter, Frederick
Holmes, Elmer Wallace
PhelpH, William Wykes
Castleman, John Saxton
Castleman, Martin Major Hornbeck, Eugene
Pitman, Benjamin
Clancy, William Bernard Hungate,James De Pauson Potter, Harvey
Oox, John Henry Dutcher Innes, William
Purington, William Ansel
Jackson, Lewie Edward
Reynolds, George Nicol
Cox, William Henry
Rice, Almer F
Crandall, Lonie Amaena Jarvie, John T
Culpepper, Sampson Wm. Jarvie, Joseph
Richardson, Frank Watson
Jenkins, Robert Theodore Ritchey, Jamee T
Curl; Samuel Alex
Davis, Edward James
Keeler, Frederick
Robinson, Henry Walter
De Witt, Asahel Henry
Kennard, George Gilbert Rogers, John

DIED:

Angus, James Adam-I.

KING SOLOMON'S LODGE,

No. 260.

!Ian Franchco, San Il'ranclaco Count;v.

Stated .Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFil'ICl!lBS1

Gustave Gnnzeodorfer, Master,
Fred Burrage Wood, Senior Deacon,
Arthur Macdonald Blade, Sen. Warden, Chas. Louis Peter Marais, Junior Dea.con,
Abraham Harold K&yton, Jun. Warden, George Porter Godsay, Marshal,
Benjamin Franklin Jellison, 7Teasurer, Liberty Halstead Bottomley, l Ste
ds
Oharles William Moores,
f
war '
Harry Baehr, Becret.ary,
George Charles Dawson, Tyler.
Past Mastera 1

Albert Frederick Knorp,
George Oharles Dawson,
William Alex. Robertson,
Benjamlu Franklin Jellison,

45

Gaeton Ernest Bacon,
William Filmer,
Henry Andrew Ranft,
John Allen Hosmer,

Jacob Frank,
Edwin Danforth,
Johnson Reynolds,
Gustave Gnnzendorrer.

1066

Rei:urns of the Sub<Yrdinate Lodge,s

[Aug.· 1,

1896.]

MA..8TEB MA.SONS :

Alexander, Wm. Frederiok Dnke, Thoma.s Samuel
Hntchinge, Hiram Samnel
Amerman, Jacob Brouwer Donne, Jamee Patrick
Isham, Ernest Jackson
Anderson, Jnliue
Eagar, Thoma.s
Jackson, Archibald
Ankera, George
Edwards, Edward
Johnson, Robley Dnngleeon
Armstrong, Jamee William Egan, Edward Matthew
Johnston, James
Arnold, Charles Sanford
Engelberg, Emil Augnst Johnston, John
Asher, Maurice Lonie
Farnsworth, Edward P.
Jones, Ottlwell Wood
Auld, Ernest Christian
Fanlkner, Richard Donglas Kalben, Edward Charles
Barclay, Alexander Jamee Fields, Nels Thoraldson
King, Frederick Randolph
Batkin, Alfred Augostns
Firebaugh, Henry Clay
Kinread, William Henry
Banm, Simon
Fitz Gerald, John Joseph Krauss, Victor Wilhelm
Beaneton, Peter
Fletcher, George Robert
Kochmeleter, Henry And'w
Benjamin, Abraham Fred'k Foster, John Franklin
La Berge, Walter Clitford
Bethell, Thomas Waldron Franks, George Mortimer Leeper, Thomas
Blair, Walter Beasley
Frost, John Henry
Lan, Albert Henry
Blake, Charles Robert
Fnller, George Washington Levy, Sylvain Samoel
Bloomer, John Godfrey
Gaston, Henry Carson
Lewie, Emanuel
Bone, John Christopher
Gerdes, Henry George
Lewis, Mark Emanuel
Broderick, John Thomas Gilmore, John Henry
Little, William
Browi:, Thomas Henry
Goldman, Joseph Hamilton Little, William Thomae
Bonnell 0 Edwin
Gorman, Jag. Bartholomew Lon!go, Emile Victor
Bnrich, George
Graham, George Davie
Loud, Eugene Francie
Borkhard, John Baptist
Graham, Gilbert Fuller
Lowenberg, Albert Joseph
Callahan, Charles
Graham, Irvine
Lonetedt, Henry .
Canney, Albert Sidney
Grant, Andrew Simon
Lurmaon, Karl Fritz
Carmichael, Neal
Halsted, Jas.Lafafayette,Jr. Lynch, Henry Hodson
Carpenter, John Lewie
Hammersley, Qeo. Hartnell Mansfield, Isaac LeRoy
Chapin, Frank Engene
Handley, Charles Jamee
Marone, Siegfried
Clntr Thomas McCrea
Hare, George Arthor
Martens, John
Colt~n, Alrio Oswy
Harris, James William ·
Martin, Henry Sebastian
Cords David Andrew
Harrison, Arthnr Oleson
McCord, John
Conp~r, Aogoet
Hart, Sydney
McCnllough, Edwin Clitford
Cox, Alexander Middleton Harvey, Joseph
McKeever, Charles
Cozzens, Nicholas Robert Hatch, James Henry
McKelvey, Sam.nel
Crackbon, Charles Lemuel Hathaway, William Rossell McMnllen, Lewie Green
Craig, Jamee
Hawthorne, Charles Ralph Metson, William Henry
Creswell Harry Thornton Hebbard, Jae. Chas. Bacon Miller, Adam
Crotty, Michel Francie
Hegeman,FrederickMehno Miner, William Henry
Croogh, John Anhnr
Hei.m bnrger, Edward
Moore, Robert Brnce
Curry, Charles Forrest
Heitmann, Claus Henry
Morgan, Percy Tredepr
Daverkosen, Frank Edw'd Henderson, William Edwin Morgenstern, Alfred Wm.
Davis, Henry H
Hertz, Louie
Morton, Thomas
DeLuca, Gesualdo
Higgins, Charles Clnnn
Neal, George Folger
Dennery, Leon
Hinkel, Charles Lewis
Nelson, Peter Nicoll
Depew, Charles Milton
Hinrichs, Charles Jacob
Neville, Bamnel Edmund
DeYonng, Michel Henry
Hoag, Charles Jared
Normand, Lewis Edmond
Dixon, Samnel Washington Hollman, Leon Leonard
O'Connor, Edward Arthor
Doane, George Alfred
Holje, Martin
O' Leary, Tb~mae
Doane, Willard Crowell
Hutr, William Henry Routio Ootcalt, Peter
t>oo~e John Christian
Hnl(hes, Edwin Calvin
Palmer, George J
Drnck~r, George lhmer
Hnnsaker, H iram Walker Patterson, Frank William

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1067

Patton, Thomae
· Smith, Andrew Franole
Warwick, Jamee
Pennycook, W'eh'n Wallace Smith, Emory Evans
Warwick, Jamea Blain
Pennycook, Wm. Gemmel Smith, Frank Landers M. Wedeles, Isidor William
Perkins, Alfred Jndson
Smith, John Thompson
Weloh. James Francis
Peterson, Ivan Leopold
Smith, Robert Washington Wendell,Clarence Theodore
Reoarte, Domingo Henry Smith, Samuel Harrison
Wertheimer, Kaufman
Regensbtirger, Martin
Spanton, James
Whartr, William Hatch
Rollins, Ai
Spanlding, James Garfield Wheeler, George Henry
Rothkopf, Albert Peter
Sproule, William
Wieland, Robert Paul
Sanders, Henry
Stevens, James William
Wilkinson, William
Saxton, James George
Stutzman, Ssmnel Steven Williams, Solon Heywood·
Scbatfner, Friedrich
Thomas, Allen Lloyd
Wise, Wallace Christian
Schneily, Leon
Thomas, Francois Charles Wisner, Archie Lother
Schord, Louis Gnstaf
Thomas, Thomas John
Witham, Walter Dunham
Schnitz, William A.og., Jr. Tracy, Theodore Foster
Witham, William Leonard
Scbnssler, Toby
Van Deveer,:Matthias Payt'nWrenn, John Winchester
Shilling, Levi
Wagner, Henry Fred.
Wright, Cassius Pratt
Silver, Mark Botler
Walker, Robert Andrew
Yoong, Andrew
Sioli, Paolo Andrea
Ward, Charles Emanuel
Yoong, James
Smiley, Samoel Patton
Warfield, Richard Henry Ziliani, Faustino·-233.
FELLOW ORA.Fl'S:

Blakeley, Joseph Henry

Price, William-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Cnrran, Daniel Joseph
Secor, William Albert

Wafer, William
Walker, George Henry

. Williams, Edward Waeh' ton
Wittman, George Walter
-6.

WITHDRA.WN :

Faron, Lonie Holle
Glass, Lonie
Loy, William Edward

:Mosgrove, :Matthew
Ostrander, William Weed
Sabin, John Ira

Trne, Charles Shaw
Wagner, Chas. Augnst Wm.
-8.

BUBP.ENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Durst, John Haines
Hatt, Joseph Arthur Henry
Hnnt, Dennis Derwin

Kerr, David
Marks, Thomae Henry

Blake, James William
Edwards, Robert Maze

Oliver. William Gibson
Valleao, Samnel

DIED:

I

Rice, William Henry
Sawyer, Albert Franklin,Jr.
-7.
Wetzlar, Alexander Joseph
-6.

TUSCAN LODGE, No. 261.
William•, Cola- County.

Stated Meetings, Friday of <n ~t 'Pf'eudin.g F'uU Moon.
OFFICERS:

Ira Albert Fooch, Milllter,
Joseph Edwin Raihbun, Senior Deaoon,
George Conrtland Comstock, Sr. Warden, George Jonathan Anthony, Ju.n. DeCUlOft,
Adolphus Wellington Kimball, Jr. Ward., Lewis Hurd Anthony, Mar1hal,
John Franklin Fouch, '.lreaaurer,
- - - - - - , l st
dB
James Wilson Crntcher Secretary,
William Robert Tolly, f ~ '
George Lambert Abel, Tyler.

1068

Return8 of the SulJordinate Lodge,s

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.
PELLOW OlµFT :

Pa•t Ma•ten 1

John Franklin Fouch,
Renben Clark,

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

MASTER MASONS:

Pryor, Benjamin Pollard
Bnmmelsbnrtr, Alexander
Schuckman, Frank James
Spencer, John Anderson
Walker, John
Welch, Robert Francis-30.

FELLOW CRAFT:

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Kidd, Floyd Edwin-1.

Griffin, Thomas David-1.
WITHDRAWN :

Appley, Jndson

ijqbinson, William Henry-I.

Joseph Edwin Rathbnn,

Lewis Hnrd Anthony,

Hemenway, George
Anthony, Orville Angelo
Boardman, Francis Marion Jackson, Oalvin
Lowe, James Franklin
Brim, John Wiley
Manor, Lewis(}
Cooper, Hendley Moore
Noble, William Wallace
Epperson, Brutus Olay
Peters, Bernard Henry
Graham, Patrick Henry
Harris, Joseph Warren

1069

Cooper, Romeo Vivian-2.

MoKay, William Shlrland-2.

Brown, John Anderson

DIED:

WITHDRAWN:

Weil!, lBidore-l,

~ndolph, Q:arry Bampson-1.

HESPERIAN LODGE, No. 264.
Santa Marla, Santa Barbara Connty.

Statd. .Meetings, Saturday of or nut pre«ding FuJ,Z .Moon.
OFFICERS1

LOMPOC LODGE, No.

262~

Lompoc, Santa Barbara Count7.

James Franklin Goodwin, Master,
Samuel Fleisher, Senior Warden,
Walter Elliot, Junior Warden,
William Laird Adam, 7haturer,
Bamnel Charles Sinsbeimer, Secretary,
Irving Nolan McGuire, Ohaplain,

Stated MeetingB, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

George Fergason Rucker, Senior Deacon,
A.Idea Amazon Glaucock, Mcuter,
James Burrows Dean, Sllnior Warden, <Jharles Emory Carter, Junior Deacon,
William Henry Sudden, Junior Warden, Daniel T Trni~, Marahal,
James Henry McGee, t StewardJJ,
Hen.son Poland, Treasur11r,
James Fennel Earle, f
Walter Oolton Ball, &oretary,
Jas. W.Keleey (of Monmouth, llls.>.Ohap., Austin 0 Warwick, fyler.
Pa•t Maaten1

Hen.son Poland,
Zene Walgamott Saunders,

William Jackson,
AusUn 0 Warwick,

Georg& Ferguson Rucker,
Henry Jonathan Burdick.

MASTER MAtlONS:

Betting, Ole Ulrich
Bacon, James Dalton
Bayley, Benjamin Franklin Hill, Jesse
Holst, Bendix
Brashear, Jeptha D
Broughton, Howard Anth'y Holst, Gerhardt Tonberg
Huyck, Edgar Dumont
Dewing, Alonzo Wilson
Irwin, John Lloyd
·
Dimock, Joseph
Jackson, Walter King
Dockery, John
Lambert, Henry Harrison
Elkins, Iris Benson
Gleaves, Archibald Duncan Meade, Alonzo
6ri111n, Richard 8

McCabe, Henry Edwin
Parker, Thom~ Coke
Peek, Wright Hunt
Perry, Thomas Longworth
Reynolds, George Edgar
Rocker, Zachariah Taylor
Shean, David Daniel
Webb,Erastns David H'>lton
Weill, Ormond Charles-42.

Addison Hervey Orr,
Irving Nolan McGolre,
William Wilson Stilwell,

Charles Lee Rice, Senior Deacon,
James Williamson Herron, Jun. Deaaon,
Henry Stowell, .Manhal,
Jnlios Oaesor Hammel, t 81,et.oardJJ
'
Charles William Bradley, f
James Madison Treat, Ty'ler.

PAat lllaatera •
Henry Stowell,
Marks Fleisher,
James Franklin Goodwin,

James Huston,
William Parker Kemp.

MASTER MASONS:

Miller, James Herschel
Hayden, John Harrison
Atkins, James Marvin
Miller, William Wallace
Hill, Robert D
Bagbey, Henry Olay
Modgett, Samual
Kaiser, Joseph
Bell, Benjami~ Franklin
Nance, Thomas O)ayton
Kelley, Hogh Clylvester
Boyd, John "'-Prell, John Gottlob
Liben, John Battiste
Boyd, Thomas
Bice, John Tandy
Long, John
Bradley, Oharles
Shnman, John Lennington
Marsh, Walter John
Brano, Robert
Stowell, Henry Edgar
Martio, Charles Wesley
Brown, Marceline
Thornburg, Frank Leslie
Calkins, Albert Champlain Mattee, Felix
Thornburg, :Madison
Maulsby, Larkin W
Doane, George Mason
Maulsby, Orlando Wood Tietzen, Paul Otto
Faber, Henry Clay
Fonerao,Zach.Valleqnerv'e MoMorray, 8amnel Andrew Twitchell, Fremont 0
Weilhelmer, Alfred
:Miller, Anthony Wayne
Grant, John W
Williams, Thomas Jeffreys
Hiller, Isaac, Jr.
Grissingher, Gnlseppe
Woods, Nahum Hinckley
Miller, Isaac, Br.
Harris, Henry Hersh
-62.
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Brown, Adam

Fry, Herman 0-2.

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

1070

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1071

.RESTORED:

Bryant, Joseph Jetrereon-3.

Brown, Marcellus

Brano, Robert

NORTH EAST LODGE, No. 266.

WITHDRAWN:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Newman, Frederick William

Fesler, Stephen Arnold
llobson, Jesse Iris

Fort Bidwell,, Modoc Connty,

McKee, James Franklin-2.

Bryant, J oeeph J etrereoo

OFFICERS a

Niverth, Stephen-4.

DIED :

Thornburg, Larkin-2.

:Rice, John.Henry

Stated Meetings, aecond Saturday in each month.
Albert Carroll Lowell, Maater,
Francis Kastner Smith, Senior DeatJOfl,
:Max Fnlcher, Senior Warden,
Edward Monroe, Junior Deaaon,
Charles Havens Fee, Junior Warden,
Robert Franklin McConnanghy, MarlhaI,.
George Hamilton Ayers, '.&easurer,
l Stetoa.rdl,
Donglas Bucher,
Henry Kober, Secretary,
Daniel Parish Browne, f
Jacolt-Meaener, Tylsr.
Pa•t Maatera1

George Martin Kober,
Albert Carroll Lowell,

ORLAND LODGE. No. 265.
Orland, Glenn County.

Stated Muting1, Friday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICEBH1

Michael O'Hair, MaBter,
Thomas Brown, Senior Warden,
Thomas Hulen Dodson, Junior Warden,
Hob bard Wm. Clabonrn Nelson, 7reae.,
Thomas Henry D11.wson, Secretary,
Gawo W Murdock, Ohaplaln,

James Noles Soribner, Sen(or JJeaOOfl,
William B O'Hair, Junior Deaoon,
James Byron Morrissey, Marahal,
l Stewarda
Thomas Benton Drake,
'
George Wuhingioo Ha.rriger, I
Edward Ponllot, '.lYler.

Francis Finlay,
MASTER MA.SONS:

Alexander,Charles Graham Grant, Thomas
Herrington, Jerry
Bailey, Oliver Eugene
Hickey, James Bartlett
Bncher, John
Jopp, Rndson Orsen
Chappell, Albert Shaw
Martin, Aaron Davis
Clos, John Martin
Metzner, Jolina
Dodson, John
Ellie, James

Fountain Columbus Graves,
Michael O'Hair,

Thomas Hulen Dodson,

William Henry Papst.

.M:oDowell, Alfred
Moore, Charles Everette
Poor, Franklin Benjamin
Shartel, William Warren
Tonnlngsen, Asmns Fred'k
Whittemore, Warren Bibber
-32.

FELLOW Olil.AFT :

Gordon, David S-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Slade, Charles-Francis
Pa•t Master• 1

George Hamilton Ayers.

Sweeney, .1ohn Steele-2.
DIED:

Miller, Oathe-1.

MASTER MASONS :

McClintock, John Porter Rea1ter, Frank Seymour
Brown, David
Sntfto, Winslow
McKinley, William Berry
Dillman, Marshall
Morrissey, William Henry Sweeney, Goolsby
Ehorn, Samuel Fraley
Trafton, Charles Joshua
Evans, Sylvester Kirkwood Mnrdook , Robert Borns
Wa.tkins, William Wallace
O'Hair, William
Hannah, David Alfred
Wiley, Jasper Grant-38.
Kesselring, Emanuel Bentz Papst, Albert
Knox, Thomas Lionlngton
FELLOW CRAFTS:

Raymond, Frank Leona.rd-2.

Meyers, Bernhart

DEGREES:

RESTORED;

Alpangh, Frederick Lee-1.

Dillman, Marshall-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Alpa.ngh, Frederick Lee

Warren, William 0-2.

GALT LODGE, .No. 267.
Galt, Sacramento (Jount7.

Stated Mutinga,· Saturday of or ~ 1JUCceeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Paredes Hamlin Latonrrette, Sen.1Jea.COt& 1
James Henry Thompson, MaatM-,
Samnel Carter McClanghry, Ben. Warden, Thomas .M Barnhart, Junior Deacon,
James Madison Short, Marshal,
John Brewster, Juniot' Ward8n,
ds
Dana. Colnmbns Clark, l Ste
Ralph A Miles, Treasurer,
war '
Samuel Whittingham Palin, St!'1T'eta.ry, Ellhn Shields Henley, f
John Goodwills Ba.e, '.lYler.
William Henry Briggs, Ohaplain,

1072

Return s of the Subordinate Lodg~

1896.]

[Aug. 1

McClain, Charles Joseph Pe&tos, Thomae Asa
Swain,' George, Jr.
McOleave, Wllliam
Rhorer, Milton Mariam
Sykes, Joseph 8
F
Dnncao
.McDonald,
Sanborn, Warren Gilman Taylor, Henry Willard
Morris, Moses
Saph, Aogust Valentine
Thomas, Edmond Davies
Morrison, Bogh Robert
Seaman, John Fremont
Thompson, Willard Dunson
Morrison, John Mcintyre Scotchle r, Joseph Lincoln Tarman , Byron Isaac
Lewie
Otto, Angaet
Shaw, Edward Harvey
· Walsh, Edward Marion
Owen, Frederick Elmer
Stewart , Robert
Williams, Albert Spencer
Palmer, Henry Austin
Stoddard, Fred Peterson
Woolsey, Frank Reese
Parkhur st, David Webster Stone, John
Young, William Albert-91.

Paat Ma.ten 1

Samnel Whittingham Palin,
Samnel Carter McClaughry,

Paredes Hamlin Latonrrette, Jas. Henry Thompson,
Dana Colnmbne Olark.
Jamee Madison Short,
111.AMTER MASONS :

Pronty, William Harrison
Adame. Oharles Campbell' Kreeger, Solomon
Ray, Felix Groody
Dickinson, James Wilburn Lewis, Samuel Amaozo
Shepard , Amos I>
McLaoghry, Harry Hnll
Dono, Alexander
Overmeyer,Jooathao Moore Smith, Charlee Samnel -26,
Garretson, George R
Penderg ast, .reft"o Campbell
Hobday, Kelsey Henry
RESTOR ED:

DIED:

Prooty, Will!am Harrlao n-1.

Phelps, Frederick Frankll n-1.

To the Grand Lodge of California.

I

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Wright, Leslie Allen

Wright, Howard Elwood -2.
WITHDR AWN:

Hooter, James Harrie- I.
SUSPEN DED FOR NON-PA YMENT OF DUES;

:atten, William Rueeell
ash, Robert Edward

Oooo, Matthew Fernandez
Coyner, Silas Crawford

DURA NT LODG a No. 268.

Stevens Willie Watt Bl' h
'

..'.!.

DIED:

Rickard, Renbeu -1.

Berkele ;r, Alame da Co-ty .

Stated Jleainga, firat Friday in each month.
OFFICJ UtMs

Edward Charles Bridgeman, Sen. I>eacon,
John Oh1ules Jenson, Ma11ter,
Henry H iggins, Jufrior .Deacon,
Charles
Warden,
John Martin, Senior
Frederic k Miles Berryman, J•An. Warden, Robert Greig, Maf'shal,
William Harrison Waste, l Steward#,
John Tower Morrison, 1reaaurer,
f
Robert Thompson,
·
Robert Edgar, &oretary,
TJ!Zsr.
,
Stocking
Hord
Renbeo
n,
Ohaplai
William Ellis,

OLIV E BRAN CH LODG E, No. 269.
Tulare , Tulare County ,

Stated K~tinga, aecond Friday in each month.

Paet lllaater a •

George Dickson Metcalf,
Frank Howard Payne,
Carlos Renben Lord,
William Ellis,

William Walker Anderson,
Joseph McClain,
Francis Henry E. O'Donnell,
Robert Edgar,

Barzillai P Boll.
Wm. Hershel Mei:efee,
Michael Jones Little,
Lonll' Wallendorft:

MASTER MASONS:

Dobbins, Hngh Hille
Amee, Almon
Dowling , Daniel Edward
Bagge, Lare Brnoo
Dorgeo, Frank Ward
Bancroft, Edward P
Blanchard, Milton Eugene Durrell, Georie Gilman
Eastman, Joseph Steele
:SooM, John Harmon 0
Edgar, Arthur
Ohurch, Sidney Leroy
Edgar, Samuel
Olark, Anetio Fischer
Edgar, William James
Clark, Lemuel Seth
Farrar, Joseph Teel
Orippe, Henry Thomae
Fischel, Simon
Day, John Holman
Fouch, Albert
Deming, James Hervey
Dickieeoo, William Robert :Fox, Henry Benjamin
Fraser,! Daniel McLeod
Dikemao,Simoo Henry

Galloop, Henry Olay
Gottsha ll, Lonie
Graber, Thomae Frederic k
Greeooogh, Harry Thomas
Heywood, Samuel
Home, Joseph
Hont, Clarence Melville
Kierolft', Thomaa Candell
Kline, George Washington
Long, Lonie Heintzelman
Loy, William Edward
Luttrell , James Franklin
Mantz, Robert William

OFFIC ERS 1

I

Calvert Cecil Brook, MalUr,
Jacob Wolfrom, Senior Warden ,
William Whittington, Juniof'W ardsn,
John Albert Golile, Tf'Baaurer,
James William Treadwell, SBCf'elary,
- - - - - - , Ohaplai n,

John Albert Goble,
Geo. Washington Zartman,

Alex. Woodfall Wheeler, Senior Deacon,
Norman Walter Hall, Ju'Afor I>eacon,
Henry Lee Pace, Marahal ,
Jamee Morrow Anderson l
Frank Eliott Anderson, ' f BttnDarda,
Osgood Knox Jooes,.7}/ler.

Paat M&8tera •
William Pierce Ratlilf,
Jamee William Treadwell,

James Winoard Davie,
Robert Lincoln Reid.

MASTER MASONS :

Aikin, Jamee
Alford, Benjamin Mfohael
Allen, William Stanford
Anderson, Harvey George
Bacheld er, Isaac Otis
Bachelder, John Langdon

46

Bowles, Boorbon
Bacigalupi, Theodore
Bowles, Scott
Beaver, Romeos Hess
Blodgett, Thomas De Haven Broadwell, John w
Bneby, Francie Marion
Blythe, Samuel Allison
Caruthers, Thomae Calvin
Boone, Thomae Lee
Ohlem, Jamee Thomaa
BordeJ'B, Andrew

1074

Returna of the Siibordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Clark, Ashford Woodward Hannaford, William Edward Moore, Sylvester Doyle
Harris, John Burlingame Monroe, Francis Marlon
Clark, Robert Carrick
Neff, Andrew Daniel
Harter, Clinton William
Corey, Albert Bailey
Notting, David Wheeler
Hatch, Charles Melzer
Copper, John A
Oakford, Edward
Horton, William Henry
Cosper, Elias Trnman
Ray, Randolph
Hongh, Richmond Nolly
Cross, The.mas
Dutcher. Egbert William Jarrard, Thomas Newton Richardson, Jesse
Jaochioe, Benno Woldemar Richardson, Samnel
Eckles, John Graham
Johnson, Gowen Wesley Roble, Milton Alfonso
Eckles, Robert Ransom
.
Russell, Calvin Lou!e
Elwood, John Henderson Jones, Ralph
Schoenemann, Louie Emil
Faoet, Geo. Andrew Willie Kellogg, Lovell Milton
Sheppard, Thoe, Armetrona
Lanson, Charles Albert
Fay, Alfred
Fothergill, William Alfred Madden, Wash'ton Douglas Shr_eve, Harry Marston
Stemeger, Edward Andrew
Manoch, Joliue
Fowler, Alonzo Tolly
Manuel, Benjamin Franklin Thompson, Tbos. Henkley
Fritch, William Benton
Maples, Thomas William Tnmer, Je'.18e ~h~mas
Fry, Angus Engene
McMillan,RobertThompeon Tyler, Al•JD Withe
Gillis, Malen Delaney
Warner, Joseph Henry
McNeil, Geo. Lockpor'
Gist, Hiram
Wilson, John Lewis
Meador, John
Gist, Jabez Chisholm
Wishon, Albert Graves
Miller, Christian
Green, Francie Harrison
Wray, George Washington
Moore, James Samuel
Rall, Albert Augustus
-98.
Moore, Stephen Baldy
Hall, Anson Parson

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of California.

1075

Paat lllaater• :

William Francie J!'rame,
J oho Manor Morrie,

William Joehna Lonlady,

M..t.STER MASONS:
Haddick, Edward Andrew McKaig, Wilbur Addison
Haddlck,Joseph Newton M Moon, Alfred Saxe
Johnston, William .Marion Mose, John J
Kenoedv, Jamee Robert

William Henry Stites.

Ragain, Charles Lyman
Sites, John
Sites, William Franklin-23.

PASADENA LODGE• N o. 272.
Paaadena, Loe An.irelea County,

Stated JJleetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS1

RESTORED:
Warner, Joseph Heory-1.

FELLOW CRAFT :
Wilson, Alexander Logan-1.
McCord, Thomae
Platner, William Albert

WITHDRAWN:
Taggart, Charles Ferdinand

Woods, Ezekiel Wm. Smith
-4..

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Beason, Geo. Washington Harbough, William Richard Shaklee, John Wilson
Woody, John Ranson-7.
Herman, Henry E
Beer, Frank Alfred
Douglass, William Frazier
DIED:
Wallace, William Henry (e, ..t..)-1.
Madden, David Waehiogton-1,

SNOW MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 271.
Stony Pord, Coluaa County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt prueding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John .Manor Morrie, Ma.Bier,
J oho Fernando Stites, Senior Warden,
William Henry Stites, Junior Warden,
David Porter Ray, 7Teaaurer,
Richard Sisk Bnrgett, Secretary,
Eli Howard Robertson, Ohaplain,

William Joshua Lovelady, Senior Deacon,
Arthur Thomae Welton, Junior Deacon,
Johnson Fender, MarBhal,
l 8tewarda,
Edward Davie,
Jamee Joseph Murphy, f
Thomas Wesley Morrie, 7}/ler.

Oscar Otto Freeman, Maater,
William D. Tomer, Senior Warden,
Calvin ~artwell, Junior Warden,
Sherman Washburn, '.treasurer,
Romayoe Williams, Secretary,
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

Luther Grinnell Brown, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Wesley Bnchaoao, Junior Deacon,
Jamee Barr Hogbee, Marshal,
William Billings Olapp, t 8te1Dai·d/J
'
f
John Stevenson Mille,
Neile Lewis Thompson, 1Yler.

Past lllaater• 1

Harry Ridgway,
Romayne Williams,
Charles Andros Gardner,

Gilbert Brydon Ocheltree,
Florin Leslie Jones,
Lyman M Sawyer,

Perry Pollock Bonham,
Gates Daniel Newton.

MASTER MASONS :
Bunnell, Clarence Udell
Allin, Thomas David
Donemoor,Alhert Vandorue
Caldwell, Jamee H.
Arnold, Deloe
Earley, Thomae
Carrothers, Jeremiah
Baker, John Hamilton
Edwards, Simon Josiah
Ola.re, Ambrose
Banbo·ry, Je.bez
Ehrenfeld, Charles
Clarke, James
Bao bory, Thomas
Eyestone, Jamee Wilson
Bankier, William Winter Clapp, William Taylor
Ford, William W
Bangham,Jooatbao Perkins Clifford, Arthur Miller
Fraser, Jefferson Carvoaso
Bennett, Adelbert Leroy Colcord, Ralph Bennett
Freeman, Otto
Coleman, Theodore
Bennett, Henry Graves
Gearhart, Stephen Murry
Bettes, Adooiram Monroe Collis, Amos .Myron
Gibbs, Charlie O
Bley, Alfonso Alb't Willits Conger, Everett Lorentus Goldman, Jeaar, St. Clair
Dalrymple, Nat Andrew
Bonner, Lonie Henry
Goltmao, Thoe.Winchester
Davies, Edward Williams Graham, Jo.mes Duncan
Breiner, John
Day, Charles Ambrose
Bristol, Albert Oliver
Gray, William
DePencler, Silas Theodore Greely, George Aognstns
Brown, Charles Cowan
Dewey, Edward Preston
Brown, Joseph Gilson
Griffith, Elijah
Drake, Alexander Cooper Grimes, Charles
Brown, Patrick
Drawbaugh, William
Bockine, John Jacob
Grinnell, Fordyce

1076

Returns of the Svl:Jardinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

Smith, Charles Arnette
Miller, Rollin Bolbort
Hartwell, John Lovekin
.
Steil, Peter
Newell, Harley Foster
Heise, William Albert
Taylor, Lewis Richard
Norton, Edward Gray
Hoag, Thomas Leggett
Norworthy, William Sam'l Thomas, Cyros Backns
Hodge, Jacob Sylvester
Orr, Hogh L
Thorne, Alfred
Houlahan, Daniel John
Todd, Isaac Newton
Honsch, William Harvey Parker, John Tyler
Torbett, Albert Steel
Jlovey, Frederick Veloros Parshall, Alfred Ford
Patten, George Downing Tuttle, Henry Elihn
Hoff, Lncios Johnson •
Vlier, John Kasper
Pea!lee, John
Johnson, Charles Lacy
Wakeley, Alfred
Perrine, Leonard
Klock, Aaron Robert
Wakeley, William Henry
Pierce, Anthony R
Lane, David Ooortney
Webster, Thomas Henry
Polk, Willis Webb
Lang, Angnstus
Weck, Charles Erastus
Prince, Parley Ogden
Laspada, Louis
White, Eloo
.Macomber, Aod'w Harland Reynolds, Isaac Julian
Wiley, William Henry
Roche, Albert Wilson
Magee, Harvey W
. Williams, Robert Adrian
Martin, Thomas Jefferson Rood, John Thompson
Wolf, Joseph
Rose, Henry Howard
.McAdam, Robert
Rowland, Francis Fenelon Wood. Ohristian Kime
McDonald, John
Wood, Isaac Newton
McFarland, Elden Eugene Royce, Edward Horace
Woodward, William Lewis
MoGregory, Wm. Whitney Sears, lsaao Newton
Wright, Walter Savage
Sewell, Spencer Kirby
McLachlan, James
Yonngclaus, John Diedrich
Montgomery, Robert Ells'h Shelhamer, John
-140.
Shelhamer, John Albert
Meyers, Oharles K
FELLOW CRAFTS:

Holloway, Andrew
Holloway, George

Ramel, Heory-4..

Martin, Clarence Sinclair
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Lukens, Theodore Parker

Smith, Bayard Thomas

Webster, Edward Casey-S.

AFFILIATED:

RESTORED :

Oook, Nelson J-1.

Dunsmoor, Albert Vandorns-1.

1896.]

1o the Grand Lodge of California.

ANCHOR LODGE, No. 273.
Compton. Los An1reles County.

Stated .V.eeting1, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OF'FICERS1

James Milton Downs, Henior Deacon,
Omri Bollis, Malter,
David Jonathan Parker, Senior Warden, Warner Alfred Sledd, Junior Deacon,
Isaac Johnson Rennolds, Junior Warden, Asbury McOomas, Mar•ha~
William Albert Gaines, l stewards
William Henry Carpenter, '.Ireasurer,
'
Amador Francis Coltrin, f
John Jay Morton, 8""1'8'ary,
Lewie Page, '.IYler•
Albert Marion Peck, Ohaplain,
:Past Maater• 1
Orm! Bollie,
E11rl Sherman Waite,

Cahill, J oho Charles
Cook, Nelson J

Vall, Harvey J
Welsh, Joseph

Proffitt, Green Lee
Wright, George Elmer-6.

Wood, Almon
Young, Jackson B-7.

MASTER MASONS :

Shaffer, John
Sliter, Seymour Horatio
Stahl, William
Talamantes, Alfredo Ramone
Treat, Thomas Robert
Weaver, Styles
Welton, Arthnr Foote-37.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Pilgrim, Oharles Mart-2.

Catey, George Washington

Hanselman, John Wesley
Bock, John Henry
Goldwater, Julius Abraham Newmark, Max Nathan

Henry, Lawson Barnard (F. o.)-1.

Root, Edward Erastus
Wooster, Charlee-6.

SUSPENDED FOR NON- PAYMENT OF DUES :

Bollis, Sherman Allen

Mudge, Melville
DIED :

DIED:

Cherry, George Addey-1.

Peter Jackson Goodrich.

WITHDRAWN :

SUSPENDED FOR NON- PAYMENT OF DU.ES :

Hester, Melville Craven
Morrison, Charles James
Sandham, Frederick

John Jay Morton,
Geo.Washington Bryson,

Katzer, Benjamin Richard
Abell, Jamee Nelson
Lenzioger, Adolph
Blythe, Heny Olay
Buckham, Sam'! Waterford Mitchell, Leroy Frye
Oleghorn, Wiliiam Jackson Morris, James Walter
Nickerson, George Lewis
Harbell, William Henry
Harshman.Nathan Sylvest'r Raycraft, George Stanley
Robinson, Thomas Biscoe
Haylock, Isaac, Jr.
Hornbrook, William John

WITHDRAWN:

Atlee, William Angostns
Cole, Galusha M

1077

Bentley, Allen Percival-1.

Martin, .Robert-3.

1078

Returns of the Stibordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1

1B96.]

To the Grand Lodge of Ualifornia.

1079

MASTER MABONB:

ARROYO LODGE, No. 274.
Arroyo Grande, San Lui& Obiapo <lounty.

Stated Muting1, Tutsday of or nut prueding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

William Thome.a Oook, Master,
Amos 0 Whittemore, Senior Warden,
Newton Holmes Rose, Junior Warden,
Adolph Phillips, 7reasurer,
John William Gilliam, Seoretary,
- - - - - - , Ohap'lain,

Bela. Clinton Ide, Senior Deacon,
Arthur Wheelock Hawkins, .Jr. Deacon,
Je.mes Le.w Eddie, Marshal,
Isidor Aron,
l Steward.a
William Fred We.terme.n, f
'
Charles Sammis Cle.rk, 7yler.

Be.ker, Be.nford Che.se
Dorsey, Thomas Beale
Laughlin, Francis William
Bardo, Levi
Endicott, Richard Henry
Lawrence, George
Fitzsimmons, Abre.m Miller Mulroy, John Henry
Be.rkis, Emmet Levi
Fitzsimmo11s, Robert Miller Ostrom, Gilbert Pe.ul
Bell, John William
Bentley, Isom Billie.rd
Grim, Charles Gre.nt
Reynolds, Wm. Washington
Bentley, George Jefferaon Gilbert, Amos Lawrence
Riohardson, Thome.a
Booth, Je.mes Godfrey
Heiskell, Jellerson Davis Tulloch, John William
Broughton, Je.mes Riche.rd Hubbel, John
Wigley; George Washington
Cle.y, Isham Harrison
Kahn, Louis
Woods, William Henry--42.
Cook, William Henry
Le.nce.ster,Geo. Washington
ENTERED APPRENTIOEB:

Cotter, Christopher Alonzo

Moll, Romane-2.
DIBD:

Pa•t Maater 1

Dorsey, Caleb-1.

Bela. Clinton Ide.
MASTER MASONS :

Block, Leopold
Fink, Charles
Brown, George Samuel
He.rloe, Marcus
Brieger, Adolph
Kinney, John Beth
Byers, Randolph
Newsom, David Frank
De.rob, John Frederick
Poole, James
Dinsmore, Plenney Earle Poole, Jone.than
Emmert,Johnat'nMe.sterFOn
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Polle.rd, Samuel Ade.ms,Jr.
Seeley, Timothy
Smith, Amos
Smith, Johu Coleman
Smith, William John
Werner, J oho Willie.m-30.

Selma, Freano County.

Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or nut preceding Full Moon.
DEGREES:

Houghton, Jone.h-1.

Fry, Harley Ee.rle-1.
DIED:

Adams, Herbert Ne.than

SELMA LODGE, No. zn,

Fry, Harley Ee.rle-2.

OFFICER!i11

Winfield Scott Robinson, Maller,
Frank Leslie Cancb, Senior Deacon,
J<1hn Lair Mitchell, Senior Warden,
Fred Drew, J unior Deaoon,
George Willard Terrill, Junior Wardsn, John Wilkinson Heard, ,llarshal,
Charles Menzo Kilbourn, '.lreasurer,
Robert Hugh Ross,
l St61DardB,
John Blythe Campbell, Secretary,
Helsel Keller Lemmon, f
Sims Washington Spears, Chaplain,
Charles Bia.ck Sargent, 'l'y~r.
Ea•t Master• 1

OAKDALE LODGE, No. 275.

Ohe.rles Robert Wood,
Riche.rd Bummers Hinkson,
James Daniel We.goer,

Henry Gise Rhodes,
David S Snodgrass,
Walter Lee Choppell,

Winfield Scott Robinson,
J oho Lair Mitchell,
Julius Langdon Gilbert.

Oakdale, Stanlalaua County.

MASTER MASONS:

Stated .Muting1, Tuesday of or nezt preceliing Full Moon.

All, John
Maxwell, Eugene Taylor Smith, Joseph Moooah
Bb:ler, Adam
McCubbin, John Cameron Smith, William
Ble.ckme.n, Charles Monroe Messersmith, Joseph
Stammers, William Robert
Block, Berne.rd
Mitchell, Je.mes William Stroud, Ira Wesley
Borton, Ce.millus N
.Mowatt, William
Stroud, John Allen
Coolidge, William Mannina: Peters, Henry Franklin
We.Iker, Charles Jesse
Outler, Herbert Nelson
Prince, Thomas Brown
Walter, Charles Lewis
Drew, George Freeman
Bawrie, Robert Alexander White, James W
Huftman, Milton Decatur Scott, George Milton
Whitson, Jacob Emery
Jorde.a, William Austin
Shafer, William Herbert
Willis, Victor Insley
Kaarsburg, Hans M. H.
Bhe.w, Bolon Benjamin
Yeargin, J ohn
Knowles, William Edward Simpson, Timothy Williams Yohnson, Carl lo'rederick
Leathers, James Valois
Smith, James Collins
Yost, William Antone-58.

OFFICERS:

Jacob He.slacher, Ma91er,
James Goodwin Thompson, Senior Dlla0l1n,
Dennis Burdett Warfield, Senior lVarr.!en , Martin Ve.n Buren Me.nn, Ju.nio1· Deacon,
Robert Ore.y Benson, Junior Warden ,
De.vid Ricke.rt, Marshal,
Riche.rd Harrison Bentley, 7reaaun1r,
Bebe.stie.n Theodore LeClert, l Stewards,
John Louis Heonemuth, Secretary ,
George Francis Stearns,
f
Ebenezer Foster Crabtree, '.IYler.
Paat Maaters 1

Joseph Warner,
Dennis Burdett Warfield,

Jacob Hnsle.cher,
David Ricke.rt,

Freder ich Karl Weyer.

1080

.Relurns of the Stibordinate Lod,ges

1896.]

[Aug. 1,

RESTORED:
Strond, John Allen-:-1·

ENTERED APPRENTICE:
KarDB, Ja.mes-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Brown, Eugene Elam

Strond, John Allen-2.
DIED:

Snyder, Monroe-1.

SOUTH ERN CALIFO RNIA LODGE, No. 278.
L08 A.nselea, Loa An1rele• County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICER S•

George Slnse.be.ngh, Maaler,
Stanley Richmond, S~nior D~acon,
Arthur Brookma.n Senior Warden,
William Pa.rri$h Jeft'r1ea, Junwr Deacon,
Wa.rren Edwa.rd &iwley, Junior Warden, Charles Guata.ve Willima.n, Marshal,
William Glenn Spence, '.frea1Urer,
Nathaniel Parrish Conrey, ~ Bteumrd.8,
Fra.ncia Chnte Woodbury, Secretary,
Amoa Meek Austin,
William Wharton Tinker, Ohaplain,
Milton Cephas Fordham (of Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202.), fyler.
Paat Maatera1

Ja.mes Robert Dnpny,
Francia Chnte Woodbnry,
Freeman Golding Teed,
Henry Zena.s Osborne,
Charles Otis Scott,
Fra.nk J Cooper,
.James Willia.m Long,
Wm. Washington Sea.man,

Cha.rles Hornbeck,
Ja.mes La.mo.r Moore,
Charles L Ennis,
Charles Forrester,
Henry !'!a.yre Orme, P. (}. M., Lewis Thorne,
Frederick Nye Panly,
Hervey Lindley,
Wm. Byron Sca.rborongh,
John Simpson Park,
Fred Lind Alles,
Madison Townsend Owens,
Riche.rd Thomas Mulls.rd,
Charles Edward Hutton.
Charles Carroll Allen,
MASTER MASONS :

AiDBworlh, Fra.nk Kenley Ba.rtholomew, G. Shannon Blaisdell, Mylan John
Blakeley, James Oscar
Alexander, Edm'd Kimball Bawker, Walter King
Bleecker, Henry Lloyd
Bean, Frank Harry
Allen, Da.ne Lorenzo
Bonebra.ke, George Henry
Beck, Samuel James
Anderson, Charles J.
Anderson, Hora.ce Phillip Benz, William
Boole, George
Bessing, Theodore
Arnold, J eBBe Honston
Boone, Blair Ford
Bicknell, Frefl.'k Thompson Boynton, Fred Wesley
Bagley, Arthnr Engene
Bilicke, Albert Olay
Bowen, John Wesley
Ba.ker, ArLhur Ea.ton
Billington, Theophilus
Balley, Alfred Theodore
Bra.dbeer, Ja.mes H
Ba.Id win, Cornellns Vanoy Binford, Joseph Ba.ker
Bra.dish, Avery Jackson
Baldwin, Osmer Wheeler Bird, Benje.min Fra.nklin
Bra.ly, Arthur Bugbee
Ba.Id win, George Everett Bixel, Anton
Braly, John Hyde
Blancha.rd, Biie.a
Barnwell, We.Iker Ga.It
Bray, Arthur

I

To the Grand :[iodge of Oal,ifornia.

1081

Brink, John Edward
Francie, John Wilson
Lawe, William Henry
Bryson, Charles William
Frost, Franklin Pierce
Lawson, Lewis B
Bnndrem, Howard Graham Gardner, Iara.ii Wellington Ledgewood, Newton Green
Burnett, Frank Wilbur
Gillespie, Matthew McGill Lee, Bradner Wells
Bntcher, .Bobert
Goehring, John George
Leh1DJ1n, Charles Joseph
Butler, James Ma.dison
Gordon, Chrlatop'r McMath Leonard, Horace Frederick
Butler, Sidney Aleut
Greek, William U
Lindley, Samuel Kingston
Campbell, Charles
Gr11yson, George Stephen Lindley, Walter
Campbell, Ed we.rd Franklin Bagan, William
Long, Charles H
Campbell, John Mis
Hamilton, Hurley Erastus Lowry, Frank Engene
Cannon, John Stevens
Harpham, George Edwin Lockel, Lonie
Casa, Alon~o Beecher
Harrison, George Wright Maddrill, John William
Casterline, Wm. McGnft'ey Ha.rt, George
Mansfield, John Patrick
Chandler, Ha.rry
Hart, John Wicks
Manuel, Franklin F
Chappel, Thomas Jeft'eraon Haskell, Eugene Craddock Marden, Henry William
Chappelear , Henry Stewart He.s!tOn, William Riley
Marley, Thomas Henry
Christopher, John Francia Haywa.rd, Henderson
Marsh, Frank
Ola.rk, Lewie Daniel
Heinemann, Berna.rd Henry Marsh, Robert
Ola.rk, Oliver Perry
Henderson, Andrew
Mathews, Waiter Kirkwood
Cox, Will Jamee
Henderson, William
Matthew, Winfield Scott
Compston, James
Henry, Jamee Wheaton
Ma.xwell, Henry
Onnnlngham, Frank R
Herron, Rufus Hills
McClure, Jo~eph Stewart
Cunningham, John Calvin Hinchcllft'e,Oharlea Warren Mcintosh, Wlllia.m P
Danforth, Edward Everett Hines, Fred Amoa
McLean, Daniel Ale:i:a.nder
Darling, Oharles Edward
Hopkins, Fred Bea.ch
McQuirk, Mathew
Darragh, Robert S
Honx, John Taylor
Medler, Jobn Abraham
Davida, Mark Abra.ham
Humphreys, Chas. Ha.rkn's :Merceran, John D
Davia, Jamee William
Hnrlbnt, Edwin T.Monroe Merrill, George Whitney
Dearth, Leonard
Jacobsen, Christian Fred'k Merwin, Andrew Homer
DeWitt, Andrew Jackson · Jeft'rics, Richard Hay
Messmore, Frank Hiram
Dickson, Clarence Bishop Johnson, Frederick Orson Michaels, Thomas Monson
Dillon, John
Johnston, John Milton
Miles, Charles Sweeting
Dodge, Sha.ii or Calver
J oues, Algernon Sidney
Miles, Nelson Appleton
Doster, Sidney Johnson
Jones, Everett Gayland
Millard, Jay Bird
Dougherty, Thoe. Ca.dwa.l'r Jones, Mark Gordon
Miller, John McCalmont
Drought, Robert
Judson, Albert Goodblet Miller, Nichole.a
Donham, George Fletcher Judson, Edward B. Iii.
Millsap, Edward Moise
Dnrgln, Walter Clements Kelly, Richard Wa.ahiogton Millsap, Sylvester
Dyer, Trnaten Polk
Kenneally, David .Joseph Moore, Frank Leeter
Earle, Lucien
Kenny, Robert Wolfenden Nance, Benjamin Franklin
Eckstrom, Albert Axel
Klohe, Cha.rlea
Nanerth, Jacob
Ellie, Henry Bertrand
Knight, Enoch
Newell, Henry Temple
Ewing, Jamee Stanley
Knott, William Sneed
011, John William Arnold
Fairchild, John Anthony '.Kreiter, William Henry
O'Melveny,Edward Harvey
Falvella., John
Kuba.ch, Christian John
Parsons, Artbnr Mervil
Farnsworth , Willis Cleve' d Knghen, David A
Pascoe, Thomas
Field, Benjamin Franklin La.mb, Willa.rd
Patterson, William Ja.mea
Field, Daniel Webster
Lambie, William Thomas Patterson,Wilson Campbell
Finlayson, Frank Graham Lammert, Fred William
Pattison, James H. Wilson
Fiscus, Joseph
Langdou, Fred'k Sylvester Pease, Sherman
Forrester, Edmund Arnold Lanelngh, Abram Angue&oe Peasley, Andrew
Forrester, Frauk Linnaeus Lan:i:, Carl, Jr.
Peck, 'Daniel Ga.gar

47

1082

Returns of the Suln~dinate Lodges

Petheriok, John
Pfafllnger, FrankXavier
Phillips, Andrew
Phillips, William
Piedmont, Lonie
Pierce, Edward Timothy
Plomm~r. Amos Weston
Powell, Francis Henry
Pogh, James
Rader, Frank
Ra.pp, William
Read, William Charles
Reid, James Arthnr
Reynolds, Ernest A
Rogers, Albert Clark
Rommel, William
Rovse, Jeremy
Rozell, David Rightmire
Rossell, Horace Marvin
Rutherford, John Dew
Sale, Howard Malcomb
Sams, Peter W
Sargent, Edwin William
Savage, Stephen Decatur

[.A.ug. I,

Titns, Eugene Leonard
Schaefer, Henry
Todd, Alonzo Lewis
Schaffer, Jacob, Jr.
Tomeney, Peter Patrick
Bchoder, Joseph
Trobeck, John Aogost
Scott, Henry
Scriver, Robert McDonald Troeworthy, John Weslie
Van Doren, John Suydam
Shaw, Lucien
Vaughn, John William
Sherer, Henry Flmaooel
Vickrey, Ofield Arthur
Shriver, Levi Perry
Walton, Charles Strong
Smith, Henry Ryerson
Snyder, Meredith Pioxton Wutson, George Samuel
Spencer, John Obas. Mason Webater, Stephen Merrett
Weir, Charles
Sperry, Eli
l:ltaotoo, Joseph Leigh too Wells, Guilford Wiley
White, Charles Henry
Starr, Joseph Lee
Stephens, William Dennison Whitson, Levi Henry
Wigmore, John
Stephens, William
Willard, Charles Dwight
Stevens, Roy
Williams, George Henry
Strashnrg, Edward
Wilson, Simpson (}
Swift, Baroabos Ellis
Tate, Cyrus Francis Steel Wing, Horace Benjamin
Taylor, Oscar Phylo Jay Winston, James Wallace
Thomas, Orion Theodore Yoong, John William
Thompson, Fred'k William Zaiser, Lewis G-300.
Thnrston, John Gilman
E..."frERED APPRENTIOE S:

Baxter, Charles Frederick Davidson, Arthar Nichols Monson, Frank Styles
Holliday, William Harrison Vandervoort,Jnllao Watkins
Clark, Maurice
-6.
RESTORED:

Davis, James William-I.
WlTHDBAWN :

Bond, George Wesley
Bonje, Emil Theodore
Cobb, Fremont
Collins, Holdridge Ozro

Morphy, Daniel
Parr, William Albert
Story, Norton Filmore

Stovell, Thomas
Smith, Fred Martin
Towne, Anson Coleman
-IO.

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bancroft, George ReBB
Davis, James William
Fortooe, Eogene Wilson
Gillespie, Samuel Smith

J,ove, George Pearson
Lanning, Samuel Willis
Lane, Cornelius Joseph
Payne, James Woods

Torney, Albert
Whitaker, David Stanton
Webb, George Alfred-11.

To the Grand Lorlge of California.

Millard, Spencer Gordon

Hanf'ord, Kines County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next aucceding Full Moon.
OFFJCERS1

John Welby Payton, Seraior ])eacon,
Briceno Amendez Fassett, Ma.fer,
John Samuel Sensabaugh, Junior Deacon,
Francis Cunningham, Senior Warden,
Charles Franklin Bingham, .Marshal,
Alvine Ray Clary, Jun. Warden,
William Henry Camp }
John Henry Melone, 7'rea11Urttr,
8 tewards,
Adolphus Goat's Dollenmayer, Secretary, Isaac Andrew Ritchie',
J oshoa Benadom, 1.'J11.er.
Charles Shelton Linsley, Ohaplain,
Pad Mastera 1

Briceno Amendez Fassett, John Longwell Sullivan,
James. CnrtiBS Ensign,
Thomas James Lovelace
Francis Algene Blakeley, Amos Melzar Ayer~,
Robert William Mnegrave, Thomas Jeft'n McQoiddy, Adolphus Goat's Dol!enO:ayer.
William Henry Camp,
MASTER MASONS :

Donham, Lewis 0
Barton, Herman Dany
Beckwith, John R. De Witt Ensign, Henry Wilson
Goodrich, George Edwin
Booker, Sanford
Henderson, Charles Udny
Brown, Charles Rose
Hicks, Stephen Bright
Butler, Charles Orville
Hobler, Charles James
Butler, Rndolph Rey
Chittenden,Lyman Sylves'r Hogancamp, Geo. Wash'n
Ohrisman, Archibald Yell Isaac, Frederick Neville
Johns, Zachariah David
Clayton, John Price
King, Arthnr Dale
Clow, Bnrtoa Roderick
Lacey, Orra Mell
Cooper, Calvin Savage
Crigler, John Ohristopher Lane, Alphens Wilboor
Lens, Lodewyk Clement
Crowell, Abner Boel
Martin, Jo~eph George
Dillon, Thomas Fuller
McCord, William P
Dopkins, Joseph Henry

McJonkln, Joseph Talbot
Rafailovich, Nicholas M
Ramsey, John Wilson
Reeves, John Milton
Robinson, James Shaw
Sharp, Benjamin V
Sharp, Orafgie
Blight, George
f:!tarkweather, Reoben Edw.
Snllivao, Charles Welch
Thompson, Sam'! Alexander
Trewhitt, Wayne Douglas
Webster, CaBBins Monroe
Wendling, George Xavier
Williams, Joseph Franklin
-6,,

FELLOW CRAFTS '

Brown, William Herbert

De&rdorlJ, Samuel Farlowr-1.
Woodward, Millard Filmore-3.

1083

HANFOR D LODGE, No. 279.

WITHDRAWN:
DIED:

Haight, Will

1896.]

Hockslrasser, Rodolf-2.
EXPELLED:

Phelps, Orville Benedict-I.

1084

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodges

. [Ang. 1,

1896.J

To the Grand Lodge of Oaliforni.a.

1085

Paat ltfaater11 1

MADER A LODGE , No. 280.

Alvin Dozier,
Albert Ferdinand Smith,

James Franklin Bedford,
Thaddeus Wilton H. Shanahan,

Bedford, James Madison
Burbank, Joseph Parker
Dales, George Benson •
Dammon, Stephen Davis
Freeland, William Abram

Fickas, Adam
Harvey, William Alonzo
Hawkins, John Timothy
.McNeill, William
Reynolds, Lincoln O

Madera, Madera County.

Stated Muting1, Saturday of or nezt pr~ing Full Moon.
OFFICER S•

William L Williams, Senior JJeacon.
Thomas Love, Master,
Benje.min Wainwright Childs, Btm. Ward., Robert Lee Hargrove, Junior Deacon,
Hartwell Cocke Borden, Junior Warden, Andrew Lee Spegle, Mar1hal,
l stewarda
Elmer Henry Cox,
Return Roberta, Treasurer,
'
John GriftHbs Roberts, f
George Gorton Parsons, Seoretary,
David Bowen .McFanl, 7'yZl!r.
William Charles Ring, Ohaplain,

MASTER MASONS:

ENTERED APPRENTIO ES:

White, Sherman Teoumseh- 1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

MASTER MASONS:

Hamilton, George Washingto n-2.

RESTORED :

WITHDRAW N:

Anderson, Henry Clay-1.

Myer, Isaao-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON- PAYMENT OF DUES :

Hessler, Lewis John Baptist-2.
DIED:

.Moore, Edwin-2.

Houston, James

Wood, Walter Nutter-2.

Garroutte, James Smith

OALLA YOMI LODGE , No. 282.
Middletow n. Lake Co~nty.

ENTERED APPRENTIO ES:

Davis, William Ellsworth

Weaver, William-2.
WTTHDRAWN:

John Wellesley Watkins.

.McKee, .John
Fee, Francis Alrred
Anderson, Henry Ch1y
Pulsifer, Thomas Alonzo
Finley, William Asa
Arondal, Ellsworth
Rosenthal, Nathan
Flint, William Read
Badger, Charles Taintor
Schmitz, John William
Giannini, Frank
Bennett, John
Skaggs, Allen Alexander
Giles, Henry
Bowers, George Allen
Stahl, William
H~insberger, Jacob
Brown, Francis Richard
Hunter, Willie Wilkin Wood Wilson, William Blayney
Collyer, James O
Wright, Alonzo
Logan, Alexander
Daulton, John Francis
Young, Joseph Walter-'3,
Dickenson, James Johnson .Maze, William Camel
McComb, John
Dwyer, John
Barrett, John Robert

Stock, Andrew Jackson
Strange, Morris
Stroog, Charles Grant
Ziglar, Jefteraon Davis-30.

Tyler, John Wesley

Paat Mastera t

James M Dunlap,

William Charles Ring,

John Wesley Harvey.

Stated Meeting1, Friday # preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER S•

Elmer Ellsworth Noyes, Master,
William Orson Green, Senior Warden,
John Chapman Volontine, Jun. Warden,
Charles Henry Tolly, 7Teasurer,
John Bynum Preble, Seoretary,
- - - - - - , <Jho.p/afa,

Pliny Wilford Reed, Senior Deacon,
Paal Nelson, Junior .Deacon,
Wellman Jenness Bailey, Marshal,
.Andrew Rocca, l Steward.I
'
J oho Schwartz, f
J oho Reinike, 7'ykr.

Paat Mastera 1

MOUNT SHAST A LODGE , No. 281.
Anderaon , Shaata County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Ji!ull Moon.
OFFICER St

Adolph Bystle, Master,
Devine Zachariah Hawkins, Sen. Ward.,
Jeft"erson Davis Ogburn, JuniorWar d8n,
John Franklin Bedford, freasurer,
Alvin Dozier, Seoretary,
Torrence Samuel Douglas, Ohaplain,

Charles Grant Hainline, Senior .Deaoon,
George Edward Hawkins, Junior Deacon.
Orrin Lathrop Newton, Marshal,
James Harvey Beecher, l Stewards
'
f
Theodore Pleiseh,
James Alexander Robertson, 'Iykr.

Andrew Rocca,
Wellman Jenness Bailey,

James Parrish,

Aby, Charles William
Chase, Ernest Samuel
Falling, John Sanford
Hardy, Eugene Atwood

Lokey, Robert
Parsons, Bengt Yoak:in
Bead, Joseph Lilburn

George Arthur Saery.

MASTER MASONS:

Schnelle, Louis Willard
Short, John Rice
Van Bibber, Benry-28.

1086

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.1 .

To the Grand Lodge of Oalif<YT"nsi.a.

1087

~Maatera1

Joseph Henry Tborp,
Levi Conover Lane,

SOUTH WEST LODGE, No. 283.

Hugh Hiram Seaton,
James Monroe Lillie,

National City, Smn Dle&"O County.

MASTER MASONS :

Stated Meeting1, Weane1day of or ne:et preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS&

Edson A Hornbeck, Master,
Alfred Clarence Franklin, Senior Deacon,
Walter James Henderson, Sen. Warden, George Wilson Beermaker, Jun. Deacon,
George Lafayette Yenawiue. J. Wardmi., Samuel Watts Smith, .Marshal,
Phineas Drew Vaughan, '.lreaaurer,
Jerry O'Connell,
l Stf.lcanu,
Albert Henry Mattblesseu, Secretary,
Charles Henry Sawyer, f
Wi1Jiam Eggleston, Ohaplain,
Niels Peter Ronland, zyler.
Paet Maateru

Phineas Drew Vaughan,
Frank Augostns Kimball,

George Little Kimball,
Augustus Brooks Kimball ,

Thomas Otto Arens.

Brandenburg, Charles Fritz Nason, Daniel Richard
Tinney, Alexander
Chamberlain, Mark D
Rathbun, William Timothy Wallace, James
Lane, Asa Levi
Sellman, Geo. Washington Woodard, Edward Dorgan
Munger, Samuel William Smith, William Franklin
-24.
ENTERED APPBENTIOES :

Carroll, John

Laugenoor, Henry Watkins-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Aucker, Robert .Miller
Brown, Myers Calvert

Clark, Louie McCullough
Stiff, Edward Lawrence

Stiff, Wilford-5.

Edson A Hornbeck.

MASTER MASONS:

Hancock, George Hnghes Park, Charles Clarence
Atkins, Willington B
Henderson, David
Perry, Robert Dryer
Baird, Mark A
Benninger, John
Reed, Franklin Pierce
Barnes, Lucious Bentley
R!sdon, Herbert Thomas
Beachwood, George Kelly Ivers, John
Stearns, James Leray
Bnxton, Gonzola Edward Kincaid, Joseph Howe
McClellan, Dnnoan Smith Stewart, Charles Rollin
Copeland, Heman
McHenry, Samuel
Ward, Martin Luther
Evans, Thomas J
McN eill, Joseph Bowers Williamson, George
Evans, William (}
Williamson, Samuel King
Glover, Lyciogres Solon Noves Oliver Clarence
Pal"me;, Theodore Romeyoe Worster,Cbarles Hcnry--47.
Grandier, Frank
Hammack, Daniel Marlon Patterson, Harry James
ENTERED APPRENTIOEl:l:

Blanford, George Charles

Lamar, Richard David-2.

WITHDRAWN:

SAN MIGUEL LODGE, No. 285.
San Ml&"nel, San Lull Obl1po County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succlleding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Lorenzo Dowell .Murphy, _,lfaater,
Gerald Noel DonglaBB, Senior Deacon,
John Detliff Seaman, Senior Warden,
John Thompson, Junior Deaoc>n,
Nehemiah Griffith Millman, Jun. Warden, William Pinkerton, Marshal,
Edwin White Cole, 7reaaurer,
John Phillips Courter, t Stew d
1
Charles Joel Whisman, Secretary,
Gibson McOonnell,
f
ar '
- - - - - - , Tyler.

Stebbins, George Henry-1.

Paat Maatera 1

John Charles Currier,
Lorenzo Dowell Murphy,

John Burton Tyne,
Lawrence HMeads,

Boys, Henry Sanford
Fisk, Rofns
Gibson, George Lafayette
Jones, Harry Edward
Kenton, Thomae
Knight, Frederick

McFaddln, Edwin
McFaddln, Badin V.
.McPherson, Duncan
Patriquin, Laban S
Rauschert, George H.
Rice, George Washington

Nehemiah Griffith Millman,

MASTER MASONS :
/

TYRIAN LODGE, No. 284.
Dunnl&'an, Yolo County,

Stated Meeting1, Friday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Smith, Charles Emory
Taylor, Edwin
Victors, Henry
Worely, Robert Oscar
Wright, David Green-SO.

OFFICERS•

PELLOW ORAFT:

ENTERED APl'RENTIOE ~

Phillip Thomas Langenour, Maeter,
James Monroe Lillie, Senior Deacon,
Levi Conover Lane, Senior Warden,
Richard Amos, Junior Deacon,
ohn Mike Braden, Junior Warcl4!n,
- - - - - - , Marshal,
John Bigham, Trecuurer,
Frederick Frank McCullough, } Ster.oards,
William Henry West, S-etary,
Walter Duncalt,
Charles Oscar Copp, Tyler.

Rocker, Benjamin Frankliu-1.

Huston, John Robert-1,

1088

Returns of the Suh<>rdinate Lodgea

[Aug. I,

1896.J

Po the Grand, Loage of California.

1089

Paat Maat era 1

Albert Oscar Colline,

.
PAS O ROB LES LOD GE, No. 286
Paao Robl ee. San Luis Obh po

Coun ty.

OFF ICER S:

Bertrand, Oliver
Oollins, John Leonidas
Ford, Robert Wentworth
Freeman, Alex. Cassiday
George, William Harris

Past Mast era•

Clarke, John
Clarke. George Marsh

succeeding Full Moon.
Stated Mutinga, Weaneday of or next
Warren Clift'ord Bennett, Senior Deacon,
James Hargis Glass, Maater,
es Jame e Trnssler, Junio r Deacon,
Charl
en,
Ward
r
John Kelshaw, Senio
Roger Booth, Marshal,
d
Alfre
en,
Ward
r
John Ernes t Steinbeck, Junio
l Steward.a
Brewer,
n
Lyma
Ed win Ladn er, Treasu.rer,
'
Charles Miner Steinbeck, f
t,a,ry,
Secre
t,
Elliot
Reid
iver
Vaµd
John Roberts, Tyler.
Thaddeus Sherman,
John George Schroeder,

John Henr y Stontenborongh.

Frank Daniel Frost .

Alfred Roge r Booth,
Jame s Hargis Glass,

.

MASTER MASO NS:

Olds De. 'd
Jones , Jamee
rt
Kilpatrick, Alex. Sanderson O'N; al, ;:he
Shaw, Frank
McDonald, William
Zlmmermao,Joho Wm.Lonia
McGee, John Simpson
-25.
FELL OW CRAFT:
Shaw, Harr y-I.
WITHDRAWN:

Cohn, Asher

Love, Rob ert-, .

MASTER MASONS:

Scott, John
Findley, Jame s Henr y
Aber nethy , Edward
ington Seideman, Conrad
Wash
s
Jl\me
n,
Garre
ll
Rnsse
ge
Ade.ms, Geor
Shackelford, Rich. Matthew
el
Anthony, Jame s Bnche.nan Gerst, Micha
er, David
Spey
es
Charl
Peter
me.n,
Gle.ss
Barber, Riche.rd
Steele, Robert Conley
Griffith, Archer 0
Be.roes, William
ns Akin Victor
Griswold, Eugene Carlton Stone, Me.rc
Ble.ckhnrn, Daniel Drew
Tidrow, Josep h
Wm.
rick
Frede
aw,
Kilsh
Holly
Brooks, Myron
Von Schrlltz, Isaac Miles
Nelson', Andrew
Cooney, Edward
Williams, Samnel Anthony
in
Bowl
.min
Benje
e,
Pierc
Elliott, Charles Frem ont
-43.
a'n
Vanc
r
Schroeder, Arthn
Eppinger, Herman
REST ORED :

Elliott, Ne.the.n-1.
WITH DRAW N:

Elliott, Na.than

West, John Fran klin- 2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON- PA·YMENT

llenn ett, F.dwin Montgomery
Hayes, Jame s

OF DUE S:

Jameson, Thomas Charles

MA XW ELL LOD GE, No. 2 88.
Max well, Coh ua Coun ty,

eeding Full JJfoon.
Stated Muti nga, Friday of or nezt aucc
OFFJ CER S1

·
Master J
on,
John Keesington Bartholomew'n7'
a.mes Monroe Tull, Senio.r Deac
'
D
J
Richard Edmond Lnttr ell • &n• "arde n, - - - - - , unior eacon,
__
H enry Jason Cook, Junio r Warden,
- - , Marshal,
George Wa.ehlngton Hastings ' Tr easu.rer, - - - - _ _ • fl 8te1Dards,
_
_
_
·
__
E noch Everette Scott , Secretary,
'
Lycnrgns Jerome Brown, 7J118r.
Paet llfaa ten 1

John KeBSington Bartholomew,

McDonald, Hngh -4.

E
noch Evere tte Scott,

Henry Je.son Cook.

MASTER MASONS :

A.dams, Joseph Davis
Ale•a nd er, All en
Cook' n·iram S
Cooper, William Harrison
4

CroBS, William He11ry
Rummeleberg, Herman
Fisher, Horace Winton
Sntto n, Josep h Amos
Phillipe, Andrew Jacks on Withoft, Theodore William
-17.
APPR ENTI CES:
ENTE RED

.
WIN NED UM AH LOD GE, No. 287
Bish op, Inyo Coun ty.

preceding Full Moon.
Stated Mutinga, Saturday of or next

REST ORED :

Adams, J oeeph Davis

Lattr ell, Richard Edm ond-2•
WITHDRAWN:

Somerville, Be.mnel Moir -1.

OFF ICER S1

John Edward Jones , .senior Deaoon,
'William McDonald (of Bishop), Master,
William Watterson, Junio r Deacon,
en,
Ward
Sen.
Wilfred William Watterson,
Albert Oscar Colline, Mar11hal,
en,
William He.rt Mitchell, Junio r Ward
Mathias Kemply Vasey, l Ste1Darda,
surer,
'.D'ea
ns,
Parso
s
Hick
es
Charl
f
George Longley,
Plea1e.nt Arthnr Chalfant, Secretary,
Leonidas .A Jame e, 7i1ler.

B
radley, Josep h Albe rt-2.

Abel, George Henr y

SUSP ENDE D FOR NON•PAYMENT

•

OF DUES :

topher Oolnmbne Snyder, August Charles
Dollarh1de, Halen Marion Felts, Chris
McDow, Thome.s Benton
Dnrham, John Franklin
Taylor, John D. Shar p-G.
DIED :

McDermott, Jame s-I.

48

1090

Returns of the, Svhordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

To the Grand Lodge of O<itiforn.ia.

1091

MASTER MASONS:

ELSINORE LODGE, No. 289.
Elsinore, Rivtoralde Coun&y.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or ne:i:t preceding FuU Moon.
OFFICERSt

Cornelius Verma.son, Senior Deacon,
Charles Sumner Merrifield, M<Uter,
John Timmis, Junior Deoooo,
Oliver Stewart Clark, Senior Warden,
Hadley Benson Johnson, Junior Warden, - - - - - - , Marshal, ·
Peter Wall, 7reasurer,
- , t Stewards,
Eben Middleton Clewett, &aref.ary,
Joseph Greenia, Tyler.
Robert Wilkinson Bollen, Oh.aplain,

------. r

Past Maaters 1

William Erskine Sloan,

James Francis Jones,

Robert Wilkinson Bollen.

MASTER MASONS :

Anstin, Fayette
Bray, William Frederick

Coombs, George Arlington Tibbitt, John Franklin-16.
J ef!ers, Henry
WITHDRAWN:

Martin, Lewis-2.

Gill, Lafayette
DIED:

Ahrens, August
Herbert, J osepb
Sanborn, Wheelock Kirn ball
Scholes, James Francis
Atherton, Nelson
Herwick, John Steck
Aylsworth, George Webb Hogancamp, Robt. Thomas Sharpe, James Stnart
Baum, Jacob
Bollis, George Henry
Shorb,Orrle Ashley Andrew
Baer, Henry Simon
Horner, John
Shnitis, Jordan
Beyrle, Andrew
Rowe, Frederick Beniab Stead, Benson, Jr.
Blackman, Jnlind Lncius
Ibms, Edward Henry
t:!tephens, Clarence Engene
Bigelow, Doctor 0
Klitting, Oscar
Teel, Charles Adelbert
Browning, Nath'! Cannon Lanphar, William Vaughan Thompson, Wm. Alexander
Tibbetts, James Madison
Campbell, Henry Cha'pneys Ling, Robert Augustus
Chaney, Edward Watson McKeona, Patrick Angust'e Timberlake, John James
Clark, Edgar Willard
Niemeyer, William Henry Tockler, Joseph Jule
Collette, Lonie Prime
Nightingale, John Henry Trahn, Peter N.
Conkllo, Hiram Hedges
Ottarson, Earl F J
Web, David
Damerel, Charles William Palmer, Thomu.s Sharpe
Wellman, Fellis Kenton
Drakenfeld,Ge~rge Barth'w Ragan, Nathauiel Richards White, Svlvanns
Ea.Hon, Charles Horace
Reichard, Jacob
White, William
Fenton, James Averil
Ritchie, Alfred George
Yoong, George-72.
Habel, George Henry
WITHDRAWN;

Brown, William Thomas
Drake, Henry Gardner

Langdon, Fred Sylvester
Mink, Fred Scott

l:IUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Perry, William Henry

Bricker, Gilman Wise-1.

Seekatz, George Philip-5.

Phillips, Frank Elton-2.
DIED:

Lyttle, William Bnrnside-1.

SUNSET LODGE, No. 290.
East Loa An&"ele.. Loll An&"elea (loun&y.

Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.

Santa Paula, Ventura County.

Stated Meetings, Thuraday of m- nezt preuding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

OFFI<:JERSt

Edward Lee Stephens, Ma81,er,
Frank Rommar Willis, Senior Warden,
Alva D Renfro, Junior Warden,
Charles Martin Burr, Treaaurer,
Charles Nelson Earl, Seoretary,
George Ellery l>ye, Qh.apl.ain,

SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 291.

Joseph Edgar Brown, Senior Deaoon,
Motley Hewes Flint, Junior Deacon,
Frederick William Tyler, Marshal,
John Rink Paul, l Stewards
David Martin,
f
'
Charles Ira Mcintyre, Tyler.

Thomas Arnold Slocum, Senior Deaoon,
Edwin Virden, Malll.er,
Leonard White Corbett, Junior Deacon,
Dan Gregg Gailey, Senior Warden,
Joseph Rick Haogh, Marsh.al,
Norman Oliver Say, Junior Warden,
Charles Henry McKevett, 7re481lrer,
Erastus Ransom, l SterD els
Lonie Lee Barnes, I
ar '
CaRpar Taylor, Secretary,
John Fansler, 'l'y!er.
Past Jllas&era :

Past Maatera 1

Charfes Ira Mcintyre,
William Hurd White,

Hampeus V'ictor Bard,
Charles Samuel Bradford,

John Willard McEvers,
Frank Putman Flint.

David Wallace Mott,
Wm. Crawford Richmond,
Joseph Rick Hangh,

Frank Ellwell Davia,
Mack James,
Edwin Virdin,

Nathan Weston Blanchard,
Charles Wesley Metcalf,
Gilbert Elisha Webb.

1092

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

MASTER MABONB:

Addison, George
Haines, William Barre
Monltrie, William Major
OrcnU, John Hall
Baker, Charles Nelson
Hardison, Lewis Art.h nr
Barnes, Newton
Hardison, Lowell Mason Peyton, Henry E
Borson, Edward
Hardison, W11llace Libby Ric)\ardson, William Tenney
Burson,George Washington Hogoe,FrederickLawrence Riley, West
Chamberlain, Elmer Ells'th Jenkins, Samuel Rogers
Salathe, Frederick
Orane, John Briggs
Keli!ey, Arthur Louis
Scott, William Benjamin
Davis, George Erwin
Kenney, Benjamin Franlllin Seay, Robert H
Davis, James Amos
Keser, Louis
Skinner, George Leonard
Fagan, Michael
Langstaff, Lindley Thomas Titos, James Burrows
· Foulks, Irving
Lanius, Phillip
Vance, Thomas Logan
Graham, Samuel Camden McCray, Morris Lynn
Warring, Isaac Hudson
Goiberson, Joseph Werner McFle, William Thomas
Wilson, John
Gulberson, Samuel Allen Mcintosh, George Robert Wiser, Frank Alfred-60.

LOS GATOS LODGE, No. 292.

1896.]

1093

1b the G1·and Lodge of California.

Roberts, Douglas J
Roberts, Hugh Ross
Robertson, Richard Felix
Sackett, Jacob
Sage, Lewis Alvin

Sams, Abram Lash
Tisdale, William De Witt
Scammon.Charles Franklin Wilder, Alphonso Eli
Sporleder, William
Wilder, Notia Irwing
Stanfield, James John
Wilson, James Henry
Tait, Magnus
Yocco, Edward Clemente
-64,.

AFFILIATED :

WITHDRAWN:

. Reynolds, Curtiss Channiog- 1.

Wilder, Daniel Webster-!•

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Dow, Edwin Elam
Lawrence, George Alfred

ferrin, Harry-'.

Lord, Samuel Leotius
DIED:

Reynolds, Oortiss Ohanning-1.

ORANGE GROVE LODGE, No. 293.
Oran&"e. Oran&'8 County.

Loa Gatos, Santa Clara County.

Stated Meeting•, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

OFFICERS:

Arthur Berryman, Ma.tel",
George Henry Adame, BeniorWarden,
Perry Mack Mann, Junior Warden,
Dallas Jones Farley, 7reasurer,
John Edward Ellis, Secretary,
Charles Mangus Decker, Ohaplain,

Bates Millard Cooke, Senior Deacon,
Fred Knowles, Jun(or Deaoon,
Henry Hatch, Marahal,
Joseph Pilson Maxwell, l St,ewarda •
Louis Sund,
f
'
Samnel Syverson, 'I'yw.

Pa•t Masten 1

Paet Ma•ters 1

Dallas Jones Farley,
William Jones,
Frank Wesley Knowles,

George Lauder,
Lewis Clinton Trailer,
Moses Franklin Blank,

Robert Pearis Gober,
Frank Mason Jackson.

James Fullerton,
William Bell Wood,

Isaac Lee Collins,
George Warren Weeks,

William Smalley.

MASTER MASONS:

MASTER MASONS :

Anderson, Anton
Harrah, William Bnsby
Arthur, James Gordon
Holden, Charles W
Beckwith, Henry Seamon Hooter, Thomas
Bennett, Oharles William Hutchins, Samuel
Bowman, David De Kalb Hutchinson, Robert Lee
Bullard, Sewell ~'rancis
Jack, Elias Walter
Cole, Lanrens A
Johnson, William Oscar
Kent, Sherman
Onrtiss, Merritt 0
Emerson, George Randolph Knight, John March
Barris, William Austin
Latham, Allen Roscoe

William Smalley, Master,
William Tandy Bosh, Senior Deaoon,
Joseph Killefer, Senf.or Warden,
William Bell Wood, Junior Deacon,
Johoty Purcell Boring, Junior Warden, Charles Baker, Marshal,
Jamee Fullerton, Treaaurer,
George Hnnt Bryan,
l stewards
George Warren Weeks, Secretary, .
Washington Marion Boring, r
'
James Field, 'I'y°ler.

Lyndon, James Hardie
Lyndon, John Weldon
Mack, William L
Malpas, Alfred
lllcMurtry, Geo. Sherman
Merriam, Horace Arnold
Merriam,Cassins Marceline
.Moore, Samuel Grant
Potter, Eber Ward
Rice, John Anstin

Burke, Orion Harry
Edelman, Charles
Leefeld, Otto H

Lehman, William Henry
Mallory, Charles Perrin

Scott, Walter Maxwell
Stewart, James Foster-19.

WITHDRAWN:

Hall, James Hedges

Wood, Allen Jeflerson-2.

1094

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of OoJiforni.a.

1095

MASTER MASONS :

TRAVER LODGE, No. 294.
Ta·aTer, Tulare County,

Stated M eetings, Saturday of or ne.zt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Joseph Bavis Pillebnry, Matter,
Henry Thomae Richardeon,Senior Deacon,
Robberson Jelfereon King, Ben. Warden, David Theodore Cook, Junior Deaoon,
Emory Barrie, Junior Warden,
- - - - - - - - , Marshal,
David Burris, Treaaurer,
Nelson Wallace Williams, t 8 1 rd8
Siegmund Woll!', Seoretary,
Martin Bandy Stirewalt, f ewa '
Stephen Gascoigne, Ohaplain,
George Cnrechmaon, Tyler. ·

Abbey, Alfred
Anetin, David Lee
Bagley, Herbert Linooln
Bohn, Frederick
Carr, Charles Fremont
Cataldi, Dominico
Conn, William John
De Carley, Joseph
Ferris, J ohn Milton
Flo.rence, Marshall
Frasnre, Aoguetos Ripley

Gilliam, David Taylor
Rien, Samuel
Herman, William George Rumbek, William John
Jansen, Soren Christian
Schindler, George
Snow, Philip Henry
King, William
Koster, Mathie
Springer, David
McPeak, Anthony
Thompson, Wm. Hnntoon
Mosely, Albert Pettis
Varner, Bamnel
;Morphy,Benjamln Franklin Wallad, Ignaz
Patton, John·
Watson, Henry Hogh
Ridenhour, Lewis Edward Watson, Marvin Albert
Ridenhour, Lewie Wilson Wright, Charles Theodore
-46.
ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Kimball, Herman Albortus

Paat Maatera:

David Borris,
Jasper Newton Bowhay,

Lyman Brown Ruggles,

WITHDRAWN:

Joseph Davie.Pillsbury.

King, William Duncan-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

MASTER MASONS :

Golden, John, Br.
Lndvigeen, Peter Erich

Marshall, John Madison-2.

Mcffianahan, Allen Ensley Nelson, William Dennie
Mngler, Albert Miller
Young, John Solomon-19.

Baldwin, James McLanghlin

Mnmay, William

Role, William Jelferson-3 •.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Hardin, Jamee Henry

Walsh, Martin Franklin-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Agee, Jamee Newton-1.

SILVER GATE LODGE, No. 296.
San Dlea-o, San Dlea:o County.

Stated Meetings, first Frida!J in each month.
OFFICERS:

MOUNT JACKSON LODGE, No. 295.
Guernertlle, Sonoma County.

Stated M eetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Engene Daney, Master,
Lawrence Angnstoe Creelmall, 8 . Dt1ac<lff,
Frank Eogene Davis, Junior Deacon,
· - - - - - - , 86nior Warden,
l:Hephen Horatio Olmsted, Jun. Warden, Thomas Jelfereon Capps, .Marahal,
Herman Welisch, 7reasurer,
William Jnetns Davis, l Stewards
James Smith Clark, Secretary,
Pa1.rick Lynch,
l
'
Alonzo Eogene Dodson, Ohaplain,
Thomas Goodwin Jelferis {of San D~go Lodge, No. 36), Tyler.
Paat Ma•ten:

OFFICERS:

Andrew Jewell, Master,
William George Cole, Senior Deacon,
Henry West Ungewitter, Senior Warden, Jamee Vincent McDonald, Junior Deaoon,
Jacob Joost, Junior Warden,
John Overton .Austin, Marshal,
Oliver Wescott, '.lreasurer,
Jamee Zering Miller, l s t111Dard.ll,
John JelJereon Keaton, Secretary,
John Hrnea,
f
William Van Boren Cole, 7i1ler.
Past Maaters 1

Andrew Jewell,

Jamee Reade Watson,

Charles Martin Proeek.

Jamee Wells,
James Bmitb Clark,
Thomas J elferson Capps,

Alonzo Eugene Dodson,
John Manning,

John G Dodge,
Engene Daney.

MASTER MASONS :

Bennett, James Peterman
Beooit, Victor
Bock, Adam
Bnrbeck, Edward Mitchell
Bnrgoyne, Charles A

Buskirk, Marshall De Wain Downs, Benjamin Foller
Capps, Edwin Morris
Easton, Percy H
Carey, George Washington Ehrman, Henry Stephens
Escher, John Frederick
Conroy, John
Dobbings, John Henry
Fosgate, Charles 0

1096

Returrl8 of the SUbordinate Lodges

Gearn, George 0
Martin, Joseph
Stevens, Edwin R
Goldthwait, Samuel Tarbox Marvin, Charles Arthur
Sweet, Adelbert Hiram
McKenzie, Bernard Wright Tennyson,' William AngosCosi
Griffith, Ferdinand W
Hardy, Charles Saunders Meklensek, John
Thomas, Richard A
Harris, James Eldridge
Millspaugh, A,lao. Gillespie Timkin, Henry
Harry, Sidney Cortis
Morey, Charles Eugene
Torner, Abner M
Hartwicksen, Frederick
Mulford, Hiram Samuel
Vergon, James
Hawkins, William Albert Parker, Peter James
Villa, Frank Jerome
Heftleman, Harry King
Pedder, James Nagle
Walker, Frank Lawrence
Hoggins, Johnstone White Prien, Henry Fred'k John Wall, Henry Lafayette
Ingram, William Baker
Rood, Vernon D
Webster, John Ordway
Johnstone, Jae. Simpson Ropp, David Franklin
Wetzel, William Yost
Kaidel, John Theodore
Schmidt, Frank
Wiard, Myron W
Keith, Aylmer Dennison
SMvill, Samuel Nathan
Williams, William John
Kneale, Thomas
Seal, John Percy
Witson, William
Knowles, Samuel Stone
Shepard, William Milton
Winsby, Enoch
Siddons, Robert
Long, Charles Douglas
Wolf, Edward Wm. J. Louis
Lyke, Oharles William
Spafford, Adelbert Thomas Wood, Royal .A, Jr,
MacDongall, John Calven Stead, James Milton
Wright, Orlando S-85.

1896.J

1097

To the Grand Lod,ge of Oalifornia:
MASTER MASONS;

Kenyon, Anhor Douglas
Mathews, Francis Thomas

Colver, Alexander Eugene
Eogwicht, George

O'Keif, Patrick Henry
Van Fossen, Levi-IS.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Sheafor, Jacob Jasper-I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Commings, John Duncan

George, Ambrose Franklin-2.

MOKELUMNE HILL LODGE, No. 298.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:
De Groot, Walter Irving-I.

Mokelamne Hill, Calaveras Co-ty.

WITHDRAWN:

Stated Meetinga, fourth Saturday in each month.

Oraig, Joseph

Bosley, George W

Hammack, Daniel Marion-3.
OFFICERS1

DIED:

Bogue, Charles Cook

Smenner, Alonzo William-2.

Francis Henry Day, Master,
Louis Hexter, Senior Deacon,
John Wilhelm Meyer, Senior Warden,
Joseph Dell Orta, Junwr Deacon,
Samuel Louis Davidson, Junior Warden, Charles Eugene Day, Marsh.al.,
Thomas Peters, Treasurer,
John Champion,
t Stewarda,
Charles Myron Burleson, Seoretary,
James Ambrose Regan,
Caesar Jenning, Tyler.

r

Past Masters 1

Francis Henry Day,

James Megaw,
Thomas Peters,

Oharles Eugene Day,

MASTER MASONS:

DUNSMUIR LODGE, No. 297.
Dunsmuir, Siskiyou County.

Stated Meetinga, third 'l'kuraday in each month.

Bowden, Leonard Steven
Dondaro, Bartholomew
Dunston, Thomas
Elias, Edward
Fairchild, Daniel

Fisher, Ely Christman
Gnecco, J oho
Hanke, Frederick Adolph
Mayer, Joseph
Moore, John

M.orray, Henry Gurdon
Sterling, John Henry
Shute, John William
Wilson, Thomas Alexander
-26.

OFFICERS1

Harry :Lincoln Walther, Master,
James Robertshaw, Senior Warden,
Fred Lucian Mallory, Junior Warden,
George Albert Pratt, '.fl-ea.surer,
William Baylor Roberts, Secretary,
William Cushman Gray, Ohaplain,

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

George Howard Ingham, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Thompson, Junior Deacon,
Benjamin Marvin Gill, Marsh.al,
John Milton Campbell, l Stewards
Dennis Freel,
f
'
George Bacon Fairbanks, Tyler.

Robinson, William Thompson-1.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Brackett, George

Past Masters•

William Baylor Roberts,

George Howard Ingham.

49

Jenkins, Jabez-2.

•

•

1098

Returns of the Subordinate Lorlges

[Ang. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.

1099

Paet Maaten:

LIBERTY LODGE, No. 299.
Santa Clara. Santa Clara County.

Sta~d Meeting1, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Dennis Willey Herrington, Maater,
James Duane Hanscom, Sentur Deacon,
John Oameron Morrison, Senior Warden, John Roll, Jun·i Dr Deaoon,
William Anderson Shields, Junior Ward., Lorenzo Adolphns Offield, Marllhal,
Albert Harris, '.lrea.aurer,
Melville Sherwood B.owdish, l SUfl.Dards,
Edward Ohase, Secretary,
Benjamin Thomas Stinson, · f
Freeman Foster Percival, Ohaplain,
James Allen Shoemaker, Tyler. ·
Paet Ma.ten•

James Allen Shoemaker,
James Robert Shields,

Wiley Hndelston Trogden,
Dennis Willey Herrington,

William Delos Winslow,
Robert Menzel.

MASTER MASONS:

Alden, Edward Henry
Alderman, Fred Alton
Arnold, James Madison
Baker, Edward James
Boynton, Byron Fassett
Chapman, Aid de Lyon
Denker, William Henry
Dennett, Oharles Edwin
Dodson, Shelby Martin
Donn, Frank

Ellsworth, J oho Hinchcliffe Millikan, Jesse
Farley, Nye Lincoln
Offield, James Washington
Fowler, EliasBarzlllai
Offield, Lorenzo Adolphns
Galrand, Lonie
Pfister, Henry Adolph
Growell, Melvin Lawrence Qulvey, Willard Henry
Raman, Carl Wesley
Shields, Daniel Haber
Hanscom, James Duane
Smith, Henry Kendo.11
Hirsch, Clemens
dtanley, Edward Payson
Hirsch, Emil George
Thompson, Isaac B
Hoak, William DnRelle
Williams, Harry Lee-«.

FELLOW CBAl!T:

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Worrall, George H-1.

Thiriot, Engene Raymond-1.

Frank Pierce Meserve,
James Albert Stone,
Charles H Hobart,
James Frederick Drake,

William Craig,
Hasley Warren Allen,
David D Wise,

William Fowler,
Clement A Brown,
Wilbur Newton Chamherl'n.

MASTER MASONS :

Atwater, Miles Mortimer
Haight, Ira Crawford
Phinney, Mellen Mosher
Bailey, Charles Frederick Hart, Alexander Hamilton Pierce, Martin Frank
Banghman, Charles H.
Hatch, Albert Wilson
Richardson, Frank Edward
Bells, William Ambrose
Heitmann, J oho Bars ton Richardson, J oho Franklin
Birch, James
Hendrickson, And. Jackson Riggs, James Sherburne
Bledsoe, Howard
Hough, Ira Millard
Sanborn, Christopher Allen
Boley, Eldridge Mountford Hoogstraat, Fred Obarles Sayre, Lonie Pierson
Brown, Charles Milton
Hnot, William
Setchfteld, Richard
Castle, Edward Stanley
Johnson, Benton Oscar
Seymour, Jerome Elill.S
Clock, Charles Livingston Johnson, David Shields
Beighold, William Henry
Cocke, Frank Nathan
Kennedy, Duncan
Simpson, William Clark
Cook, William Omar
King, Anderson Whitney Btefa·n, Frederick Joseph
Cottrell, Joseph P.
Kirk, John
Buess, Jacob Jnhn
Crafts, George Herbert
Malone, Hatton 0
t:'lness, George
Craig, Scipio
Mendelh&ll, Willard Hall Sweesy, George Washington
Dean, Chauncey Theodore Mitchell, Vinton Littleton Tattle, Edward Andrews
Deck, Lewis
Moore, Elliott Augustus
Wallace, John Easom
Diss, John Wallace Fox
Moore, William Graft'
Wells, Onrtis
Eaton, Clement Rand
Morris, William Thomas
Welsh, Wallace William
Edwards, John William
Morrison, Frank Pierce
Wheat, Jamee Madison
Elliott, J oho
O•bnn, Albert
Wooliscroft, Jesse
Fowler, Frank L
Osbon, Jaoob Armanns
Wormer, Matthew
Gaylord, Cass
Painter, Edwin Thomas
Wyman, Francis George
Gaylord, Olinton Gilbert
Patten, Herbert
-91.
.RESTORED:

Welsh, Wallace William-I.
WITHDRAWN:

Clarke, William Sibley

Hornbeck, Eugene

Kennard, Thomas John-3.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

REDLANDS LODGE, No. 300.

Brown, Frank Elwood

Cantrell, David Gooding

Redland., San Bernardino County.

DIED:

Stated Meeting•, firat Monday in w.ch month.

Sinclair, Albert-I.

OFFICERS•

Charles H Hobart, Senior Deacon,
George Byde Kelsey, Malter,
Angustns George Sterns, Jun. Deacon,
Albert Edwin Taylor, Senior Warden,
Frank Clarke Prescott, Junior Warden, James Albert Stone, Marshal,
Frank Pierce Meserve, Treasurer,
Silas Williams,
l Stewards,
Jacob Poundstone, f
Chauncey Archibald Wise, Beoret,a,ry.
Thomas Benton Reeder, 1Yler.
J oho Day Easter, Oh.a.plain,

McKee, Emmet Bylvester-3

l.lQO

~eturm of the SuJJordinate Lodget1

(Aµg. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oaliforn:ia.

1101

SANTA LUCIA LODGE, No. 302.
ONTARIO LODGE, No. 301.

Klnar• City, lllonte:rey County.

Ontario, San Be:rna:rdlno County.

Stated Meetinga, Thursday oj or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetinga, Friday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon in each mo1uh.
OFFICERS1

Thomae Stone Knoles, &nfor Deac.m,
Robert Gray, MaatBr,
Albert Kortright Nealee, Junior .Deacon,
A;lb.ert Dean Moore, Senior Warden,
Benjamin Ohalfey Shepherd, Jun. Ward., Walter James Horne, Marshal,
Robert Orwig Brackenridge, 7reasurer, Clement R~y Moree, l Bteuiar<b ·
'
Rinaldo Jamee Smith, f
Charles Ransom Sykes, Secretary,
Samuel Gilson Blood, Tyler.
:Halcom B M.acLeod, Ohaplain,

OFFICERH1

Frank Merritt Beebe, Senio,. Deacon,
William Grant Stevenson, Master,
William John Hamilton, Senior Warden, John Fielding Harbolt, Junior DeaDon,
Charles Richard Melander, Jun. Warden, Frank Harboe Westlake, Mar•hal,
Andrew Jackson Copley, l Srewards,
Robert Jamee Rogers, 7reasurer,
f
Joseph Rice,
Douglas Ledbetter, Seflretary,
Joseph Johnson Long, Jr., Tyler.
John Witham, Ohaplain,
Paat .lllaate:ra 1

Alexander Patterson,
John Nelson Besse,

Edwin Alexander Eaton,

P aat lllaatera 1

Thomas Hitt Bowman,
Albert Glenn Kendall,
Benjamin William Richards, Robert Gray,
Benjamin Chalfey Shepherd,

Frank Harloe Weetla.ke.

MASTER MASONS :

John Palk Robertson,
Martin Van Bnr~n MoQaigg.

MASTER MA!lONS:

Newton, Eder Barnnm
Frankish, Charle"
Allen, Charles Winfred
Nicoll, Daniel
Armitage, Frederick Wm. Garcia, Joseph Silveira
Phillipa, Hickman
Green, John Benjamin
Barrett, George Sawyer
Piddington, Alfred
.Beesley, George Edward Hanson, Obarles Lucian
Rhodes, Edwin
Bennlnk,Ooruelins G.H'nry Hardy, Oren Eldridge
Holbrook, George Robert Robertson, Edgar Simpson
Bracewell, Hartiey
Sawyer, Francie Lewis
Holmes, Thomae
Bortells, Frank Lilly
Jackson.Harrison Webster Smith, Lewis
Bowen, John .Marrav
Smith,Lovias Olin Perry H.
Kilpatrick, David
Brown, David Roland
Kirchholfer, Rich.Berreef'd Smith, Wilbnr Waletein
Oatto, Willlam
Southworth, Alva Morrison
I.ittle, Frederick Arthur
Oolllne, William Edwin
Terrell, William Pecbam
Magill, David Roberta
Corder, Lewie Thomas
Cnvernton, Theodore Selby Motsinger, Jacob Leander Wa.ite, Charles Clement
Mytton, Henry Robert H. Whitaker, Isaac Whitaker
Drew, Edred
Newman, Orlando Jamee Woodrn!f, James-63.
Faron, Lewie Hoile
Ford, Byron
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Lynch, John Conani-1.

Branstetler, Wm. Madison Hedgpeth, William Rafus Reynolds, Artbar Eagene
Landram, Joe. McKindrie Schroeder, Frederick Wm.
Bushnell, Henry
Leese, David
Oolfey, Albert W
Wallie, Daniel Whitfield
Long, Joseph Johnson, Sr. Warren, Alfred-29.
Damianovich. John
Fancher, James Knox Polk Pitts, William Langmead
WITHDRAWN:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Tidball, Thomas Theodore-1.

Dozier, Charles Atkineon-1.
DIED:

Matthews, Robert Lowrie-1.

PORTERVILLE LODGE, No. 303.
Porterville, Tulare County.

StatW- Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

WlTBDRAWN:

Do Bois, Ernest

Hills, Edward Main WeHon-2.

Jacob Frenklin Boller, Meuler,
Emil Newman, Senior Deacon,
Charles A.lbert Troeger, Senior Warden, Gerald Robert Lnmley, Junior Deacon,
James Henderson Hatcher, Jr. Warden, Louie Pohlman, Marshal,
John Benjamin Hockett, 7Tea.!urer,
William Moore Yonng, l BtettJards,
Hiram F Brey, 8eoretart1,
f
John Henry James,
Samuel Thompson Giliam, Chaplain,
John Angnet Wessman, Tyler.
Paet Ma•te:ra 1

Adolph Gustave Schulz,
John Benjamin Hockett,

Hiram F Brey,
Edwin Wellington Beebe,

Jacob Franklin Boller.

1102

Returns of the SulJordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oalifornw.

1103

MASTER MASONS :

Allen, Benjamin
Henry, Oliver Osborn
Mcintyre, Thomas
Bearse, John Theodore
Hewey, John Wm. Ernest Miner, James Looney
Hoover, John Laird
Montgomery, Percy Clond
Derryhill, John Samnel
Blnmfleld, WilliRm Carl
Hornsby, Thomas Jefferson Murry, George Gordon
Box, Samuel Powell
Howeth, Nelson
Norris, Walter Hardiway
Parks, David Harrison
Brown, Robert Allen
Hughes, Hngh John
Doyel, William Henry
James, Benjamin F
Scott, John
Flaugher, John Daulton
Lewis, James Sylvanus
Stone, Frederick
Lumley, Anbrey Montagne Tieflsher, Ricker
Gninn, Andrew JRckson
Hardeman, John Locke
Manter, John Thompson
White, James Smith
Haughton, Edward William McDonald, Robert Henry Williams, John Howard
Hayes, Jacob
McFarland, Robert West
Wood, Robert :M.anly-51.
Henderson, Thos. Edward

AZUSA LODGE, No. 305.
Azusa, Los Aneeles County,

Stated Meetings, Thursdav of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Orlando Henry Hober, Master,
Charles Henry Lee, Senior Warden,
Willard J. Wade, Junf.or Warden,
John Thomas Noel, 7reai1"rer,
Hngh Henry MoCntchan, Secretary,
Winfield Scott Cole, Ohaplain,

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Past Masters •

James, Wiley Franklin-I.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Kelly, Thomas Almorino Von Schmittou, Sterling Adolp's Van Dusen, Ezra Bullard
Pressey,Geo. Washington
-4.

REEDLEY LODGE, No. 304.
Reedley, Fresno County,

Stated Meetings, Saturday oj or next preceding FuU Moon.
OFFICERS•

Christopher Dndley, Maater,
Walter Yonng Davies, Senior Deacon,
Albert Bazzle Clark, Senior Wa1·den,
Albert Thomas Bollinger, Junior Deacon,
Eugene Adelbert Mower, JuniorWardf'n, Harry Frank Winnes, Marahal,
John Simeon Jones, Treaaurer,
Snmoer l•'remont Earl, t Stewai·ds
Joseph Borson Moomaw, Secretary,
Clarence Alvin Hale, f
'
Peter Griest, Ohapla.in,
James Polk Neil, T11Zer.
Past Masters 1

William Rollin Purinton,

Christopher Dudley.

Robert Wesley Dawson,
Thomas Francis Griswold,

Gummow, Charles
Neil, William Rice
Humphrey, Eld'ge Getchell Skoggins, Andrew Jackson
Marlar, William Edward Smith, David Christopher
Mnsans, William Purinton Thomas, John Neil-26.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE:

RESTORED:

Heine, William Lndolph-1.

Brooks, Edgar Micager-1.
AFFILIATED:

Mu~ans, William Pnrinton--1.

Reed, Daniel Lyle

Orlando Henry Huber.

MASTER MASONS :

Aikman, William
Elliott, Engeoe Angnst
Barker, William Thomas Felts, George Wesley
Fraisher, Claude Meloot
Bentley, Daniel Sweet
Bnrt, Oscar Marchal
Graham, George
Canavan, Thomas
Le Baron, Eggene
Crickmore, Joseph Clinton Meredith, Charles Theiss
Cnrran, Phillip
Metcalfe, James Arthnr
Daly, John E
Miller, John Holbrook
Daniels, Adonisan Jndson Needham, John
·

Robertson, Beoj.Colnmbns
Rogers, Andrew Berry
Rubins, John Calvin
Scott, John Winfield
Shorey, Charles Henry
Stower, Alex. Campbell
Thomas, Henry
Wetherby,John Francis-41.

FELLOW CRAFT:

WITHDRAWN:

Matthews, James Lewis-1.

Shaw, David Albert-I.

ASHLAR LODGE, No. 306.'
Stated Meetings, Thurs<Iay of or next preceding FuU Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Edward Burrall, Ma~ter,
Henry Halleck Bingham, Senior Deaoon,
John Bennett Harma, Senior lVarden,
George William French, Junior Deacon,
John Lawrence Merkley, Junior Warden, Robert Johnston Martin, Marshal,
Josephus Darby Warner, Treaaurer,
Reuben Henry Franklin,
t Ste rd8
Constantine U'Ren, Secretary,
George Melville Hubbard, f
1.0a '
Francis Mills Hubbard, Ohaplain,
Thomas Stanton Adkins, Tyler.
Past Masters•

WITHDRAWN:

Gilbert, Jnlins Langdon

James Denny Reed,
Jacob Brnojes,

Colton. San Bernardino County.

MASTER MASONS :

Bollinger, John Franklin
Brooks, Edgar Micager
Coffin, Christian A ugnst
Conley, John
Gilbert, Fred Ives

Robert Love Fraisher, Senior Deacon,
William Orland Streshly, Junwr Deacon,
Jacob Brunjes, Marshal,
Edwin Mace,
I Stewards
John William Calvert, f
'
George Washington ,lnden, Tyler.

Reed, George Victor-3.

Francis Mills Hubbard,

Howard Burton Smith,

Constantine U'Ren.

1104

Returns of the Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. l,

1896.J

1b the Grand, Lodge of. Oalifornia.

MASTER MASONS :

Adame, Jamee Edwin
Boalick, George
Bliee, Wilber F.
Bright, Frederick Richard
Clark, Ward Eastman
Fuarey, Andrew
Matot, John

McGregor, John
Talking$on, Joseph Farman
Minnick, Albert
Thompson, Albert
Mott, Albert Clark
Thompson, l!Jdward Ev~reU
Rath well, Benjamin Fennell Topp, Thomas Martin
Roark, Jamee
Waters, Peter Edward
Roberts, Edward David
We$teroth, Frederick-33.
Spring, Adolphoe Doane
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

De Berry, William Henry
.M:cGraw, Thoma.e

Morphy, Michael Aogneto~•

.M:oorniog, Harvey
WITHDRAWN;

Pitman, Beojamin-2.

Mitchell, Eben Lester

1105

MONROVIA LODGE, No. 308. .
MonroTla, Los AnarelH County.

Stated Muting•, second Saturday in eac.\ month.
OFFICERS I

William Parker Spence, Master,
John Harvey Strine, S enior.Deacon,
Edward S~encer Armstrong, S . Warden, Lawrence Newton Wheeler, Jun. Deacon,
John Calvm Anderson, Junior Warden, Albert Hnrlbut Johnson, Marahal,
John Henry Bar$le, 7Tea.mrer,
Eugene Daniel Northrup i
Leonidas Barnes, Secretary,
Frank Jay Cornes,
' f Stewards,
Myron Holley Chamberlain, Ohaplain,
De Witt Clinton Bawyer, Tyler,
Paet Maeters :

William Wallace Whitaker, Ulyssus Samuel Grant Todd, We.eh.Lafayette Goodman.
Jamee A Fosh6y,
James William Harvey,
MA.STER MASONS:

SANTA MONICA LODGE, No. 307.
Santa .Monica. Loa Aneele• County,

Stated Meetings, third Priday in each month.
OFFiflERS1

Nilee Rathbone Folsom, MaBl.er,
Jamee Elias Dunham, Senior Warden,
Edward Emerson, Junior Warden,
Edwin James Vawter, '.Ire<UUrer,
Oharlee Henry Thoma.e, Secretary,
Ivan Morgan Merlinjones, Ohaplain,

Nathan Franklin Smi$h, Senior Deacon,
George Byrd Dexter, Juni-Or Deaoon,
Julius I Comstock, lt{arahal,
Jamee ~'ernando Waggoner, l steuiarlU
Edwin James Vawter, Jr., f
'
Stephen Fisk Oarpenter, Tyler.

Paat Maatera 1

Henry Wt>rkm110 Keller,
Lorenzo Anson Rockwell,

William Templeman Gillie,
Niles Rathbone Folsom,

Adams, Rueeell D
Cronenwett,A.lb'rt Emanuel Mendell, George Herchimer
Arthur, Bradford Joseph Douglass, Frank M
Monroe, Campbell Otto
Atkinson, Andrew S
Dunn, John V
Monroe, George Walter
Bacon, William Ware
Vaowell, William Tennent Prindle, Edgar Maovill
Badeau, William Case
Glenoey, Thomas
Reed, John Wallace
Bardill, Conrad
Hayes, John
Sawyier, Reuben Anderson
Barnes, Charles Waehiogt'n Hinters, Adolph Christian Thomme, Abraham
Bar$h, Otto Frank
Hobart, Ralph Willis
Tyler, Jesse
Bent, Abbott Jackson
Ingersoll, Chal"les Kelley Wardall, Thomae
Blair, Luther Reed
Lawrence, Robert Hoe
Wh.11eler, Orswell A.sher
Boone, H~r?ld Thomas
Ludwig, Uriah Seltz
Wooley, John Karl,.--02,
Clark, Wilham 0
:McCartney,HerbertSwift G. ·
·
ENTERED APPRENTICE:

SUSPENDED FOB NON-PAYMENT OF DUEi!:

Rehrmao, Charles-1.

Whittington, Joeeph Calvin-I.

Francis Marion Colp,
Jolina I Comstock.

MASTER MASONS :

Bagg, Henry Clay,
Barker, Alvin Perry
Boyce, Menzo B
Bergk, Charles
Cates, Horace Getchell
Colbert, Patrick
Dalee, Charles Scott
Davie, J. J etrerson
Eleer , Frederick
Feather, Marcos D
Haefner, John
Hamilton, Newell Hiram
Hasse, Herman Edward

Prince, George Henry
Jackson, Stephen
Proctor, J oho Barton
Jamison, Allen Muir
Patman, De Witt Clinton
J enkins, Robert Chesley
Roth, Myron Clark
Kennedy, John
Steele, John Corbett
Kimball, Myron Holly
Steen, Harold
Kinney, Abbot
Suits, Elihu Daniel
Klaee, Frederick
J,ehman, Angaet Herman Sweetser, Edward Healy
Lowman, Zachariah Henry Tullis, Oliver Grant
McClarkio, William John Vinyard, William Sim
Volkman, Martin Henry
Miller, Robert Meek
Morrison, Andrew Brown Wells, Thomae Henry-.S•.
Place, Joseph Jeremiah

WITHDRAWN:

DmD:

Brown, Le Roy Decator-1.

Calder, Ohe1ter Olllrord-1.

DELANO LODGE, No. 309.
Delano, Kern County.

Stated Muti'ngs, first Thursday in each mo11th.
OFFICER81

Benjamin Thoma.e, Ma.Mer,
George Thomas Parr, &enior Deacon
Benjamin Franklin Hobart, Ben. Warden, Alexander Sames Kramer, Jun. Dea:on,
Archibald Sheppard, Juniot· Warden,
Theodore Temple Park, Mar•hal,
- - - - - - , 7Teaaurer,
Marcus D Allen, i 81
da
John Jacob Schlitz, Setrretary,
James Funston f ewar '
Richard Valentioe Dorsey, Ty,.e:.,

50

1106

[Aug. 1,

Rdurn8 of the Su'lxYrdinate Lodgu

1896.]

To the Grand .Lod{/e of OaU/ornia.

1107

Paet Maaten 1

Theodore Temple Park.

John Jaoob Schlitt,

David Seymonr Woodrnff,

HUENEME LODGE, No. 311.

MASTER MASONS:

Oline, Christian William
Darling, Elwin Charles
Dngglos, James Madison
Jones, Arthur Wlllsly

J,oose, Herman
Ramsey, Ernest Hastings
Ro bertaoo, Lance !Scott
Roblnaon, James Bartlett

Smith, William Lannon
Witterow, John RnBBell
Zimmerman, Henry David
-22.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

Fry, Edwin Claode-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Taggart, Thomas E-2.

Metzger, Elias Borgese

Hueneme, Ventoara County.

Stated Meetings, first Satvrdag after Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Leon Lebmaoo, Senior .Deacon,
Richard Oox, Master,
George Edmund Eastwood, Sen. Warden, Henry William Witman, Junior Deacon,
PbiletasSpragae Oarr, -Tunior Warden, William James McMillan, Marshal,
l Steward.II,
Aohille Levy, 'Ireaaurer,
Henry Levy,
J eoe Rasmu11aeo, f
Solomon Lawrenoe Maok, Secretary,
Wiiiiam Reeeenions Nelson, '1'11ler.
John Samuel Johnson, Ohaplaf.n,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Pa•t Maeter• 1

Watte, Benjamin Marlon-1.

Robert George Livingston.

Riobard Cox,

Solomon Lawrence Mack, ·

MASTER MA.SONS:

Bard, Thomas Robert
Banm, George
Boehm, Martin Maier
Burkley, Aoguet
Cook, William Charles
Gabbert, Thomas Gaven
Laurent, Martin Jalios

SISSON LODGE, No. 310.
81Hon, Slaldyou <Jeanty,

Scbtltze, Herman Albert
Palin, Jean Baptiste
Shillington, James Wesley
Petit, Frank
Reynolds, Jamee Edward Smith, Alvin Billings
Rice, Thomas Alexander Taylor, Thomas Brown
Robinson, Ohrietopher M. Wadleigh, Orville Anetio
Wolf, Moise Lazard-33.
Rodway, Alfred Biggs
Saviers, Winfield Scott

Stated Meetings, firlt 'l'huradag in each month.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Poggi, Isaac Martin

OFFI<lERS1

Joseph Aaron Baoier, Senior DBMOfl,
Oscar ·Hiram Woods, Ma*r,
Oharles Caswell Smith, Senior Warden, Jobo Wesley R!ockel, Jimictr Deacon,
Thomas Cross Pockman, Marahal,
Charles Wickham, Junior Warden,
Albert Parah Smtley, [ BIBWardll,
Archie Galen Elaeoo, '.lreaaur~,
f
John B. Gollner,
Charles Abram Andrews, SBCreta.ry,
Hogb Blythe Andrews, 7Yler.

Snow, Riram King, Jr.-2.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Roth, Samuel Daniel-I.

Hankins, Aloozo-1.

Paat Maatens

John Franklin McBride,

Thomas Cross Pockmao,

James Stevens.

MASTER MASONS:

Bartlett, Wallace Coggins
Bonham, Hiram Jeffries
Deets, George Lewis
Flett, George Henry
Griftlo, Leander James

Johnson, George H
Knight, Alton James
Middleton, John
Myers, George Edward
Orr, John Brown

Scholer, John Martin
Sbebley, William Henry
Smith, R. Watson
Walbridge, Henry Wilson
Weed, Aboer- 28.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE :

WITHDRAWN:

Fowler, Thomas B-1.

McLaren, James-1.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Barley, Charles Bernard

Peterson, Charles David-2.

LOS BANOS LODGE, No. 312.
Loa Dano., Merced County.

Stated Meetinga, Wedneaday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

William Thom11s Cheathan, Sen. Deacon,
William.Jasper.Stockton, Ma&er,
William Josiah Jameson, Senior Wardell, William Merritt Wiley, Junior Deacon, ·
Fred Johannes Jnlins Petersoo,J. War., Fred Backle, Mar1hal,
l 8161Dards,
Frank Clare,
Alfred Harris, 7h<JBUr~.
Frederick William Schafer, f
Charles Edwin Perry, 88cretary,
Samuel Newell Beaty, 7~1er.
Paet Maaters:

Charles Frederick Wade,

Samnel Newell Beaty.

1108

Returna of tM Subordinate Lodges

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

1109

To the Grand L<><lge of Oalifornia.

MASTER MASONS:

Bibby, Nicholas
Carrick, John Willard
Davenport, William John
Drummond, John Q11incy
Elder, Charles Glenn
Fnncheon, Benjamin

Higby, Seward Oliver
Laoy, Joseph
Lang, William John
Leonar,1, Dennis Allen
McCraney, William
Patton, Thomas W

Ryley, Samuel Pa11l
Smith, Martin Miles
Vanderlip, Albert Maitland
Wood, Chester Worthington,
Wright, William Walter-29.

ENTERED APPRENTIOE:

AFFILIATED:

Hoffman, Edward Henry-1.

Van Deventer, Benjamin Felton-1.

RESTORED ;

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Davenport, William John-1.

Bhrimpton, William Bolton-1.
DIED:

Van Deventer, Benjamin Felton-1.

TEMESOAL LODGE, No. 314.
South Riverside, Rlverdde County,

Stated Mt!$tings, Thursday of or nezt preceding Ji1ull Moon.
OFFICERS1

Oharles Henry Cornell, Master,
Preston Alexander Bennett, /:ien, Deaaon,
William Christian Barth, Sen. Warden,
Orlando Artemus 8mith, Junior Deac<m,
Clift'ord Velonrons Gleason," Jun. Warden, George Brown, Marshal,
Thomas Paine Drinkwater, '.lreasurer,
James Songer, t Stewarda
Albert Polk Kelley, Secretary,
Frank Booville, f
'
Edwin Buckley Alderman, Ohaplain,
Elam Harter, Tyler.
Paet Ma•tera 1

Preston Alexander Bennett,

Orlando Artemas Smith,

George Brown.

MASTER MASONS:

Babcock, John Wesley
Barber, Rio Delos
Compton, Ambrose
Dill, Jacob William

Dyer, Frank John
Hamilton, Edwin Elliott
Lord, Daniel
Mathes, James Page

TEHACHAPI LODGE, No. 313.
TebAchapt, Kern County.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preeeding Ji1ull Moon.
OFFICERS 1

MoVlcar, William Grey
Plautico, Emil Lonie David
Rolfe, Ovid Dennett-23.

FE:LL()W CRAFTS:

Torner, George Dnncan-2.

Larrabee, Arthnr Hamilton
ENTERED APPRENTIOE:

WITHDRAWN :

Foller, O. B.-1.

Taylor, Harlan Elbridg-1.

John Henry Sheridan, MaatflT',
Edw. J. Hosbrook Nicholson, S. J)eacon,
Peter Tnrnont, Senicr Warden,
Dick Shackleford, Junior ])eacon,
Peter James McFarlane, Jun. Warden,
Eugene Trnman Garlock, Jlfarshal,
Abram Staley, '.lreasurer,
Burton Martin Denison, t Stewards
Austin Yoong, Seoretary,
Clarence Edward King, f
•
Daniel Boon Newell, '.fYler.
Paat .Maater •

NORWALK LODGE, No. 815.

John Henry Sheridan.

Norwalk, Lo• Ana-ele• County,

MASTER MASONS :

Atchison, Robert
Spencer, Patrick H . W.

Strader, Fred E
Tncker, Lorenzo Dow

Tarpin, Sidney Lonie
Wilson, William Cabaniss
- 17.

FELLOW CRAFT:

McCrea, George-L
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

McCandless, Charles William

Bidwell, George William-2.

Stated Meetings, Tuuday of or next p rece<Iing Full Moon.
OFFICERS I

Schofield Holgate, Maater,
William Alfred Sackett, S enior Deaoon,
Charles Emery, Senior Warden,
Joseph Edward Conrtney, Junior Deacon,
George Reed Frampton, .Junicr Wai·den, Franklin McCarric, Marshal,
Darius David Johnston, Treasurer,
Harrison K Ouster, t Steuiarda,
Garnett Dnncan, Secretary ,
Wallace Randall, f
Jacob Wesley WalterP, Chaplain,
- - - - - - , Tyler.
Pa•t lllaater 1

James Smith Eliot.

1110

Returns of th£ SuhordinaJ,e Lodges

[Aug. 1

1896.]

1111

To the ffrand LorJge of OalifornW,.

MASTER MASONS :

Baker, John Samnel
Branch, John Franklin
Brown, Pleasant Andrew
Brown, William Andrew
Clark, James Clark
Deering, Richard Sanford
Dillman, Thomas Miaon

Donnell, William Wendell
Dohn, Phillip Carl
Duncan, Charles Wilson
Fraser, Alexander Isaac
Groover, John Franklin
Hay, James
Holland, Thomas Newton

Mason, Charles Cole
Mathews, William Henry
Pnrdy, Francis Marion
Rodgers, Charles·
Sebastian, Charles Edward
Smith, William Harvey
Sproul, William Charles-33.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Gillispie, Edward Grant-2.

DreBBell, Alphonse Edward
WITHDRAWN:

EXPELLED:

Bray, William F1·ederick-l.

Baker, Samuel George-1.

FALLBROOK LODGE, No. 317.
Fallbrook, San Dleeo County.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or ntzt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

lloberi Emerson Chapman, Sen. Deaoon,
Ashley Stephens Parker, Master,
Alonzo Manderville Bell, Junior .Deacon,
Almond James Olark, Senior Warden,
John Cornelius Warring, .JuniorWnrden, Chrisman Harrison Parker, MarBhal,
Anson Maxwell Peters, Treasurer,
Harry Briggs Rice,
l Stewardll
Percy Alexander Johnson, f
'
Ira Culbertson Adams, Sooretary,
James Enos Tracy, 7\tler.
- - - - - - , Oho.plain,

DIED:

Past Maaters 1

De Witt, Levi Walter-1.

Robert Emerson Chapman,

Ira Colbertson Adams.

MASTER MASONS:

Gray, William Macy
Hewes, Jonathan Nicholas
Martin, Joseph George

Bowers, Stephen
Clyde, Oscar Leslie
Gould, William James

Maxwell, Frank
RoBB, Albert-19.

WITHDRAWN:

SANGER LODGE, No. 316.

Clemens, Andrew

Pittenger, William-2.

Saneer, Fre•no Connty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next yreuding 'Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Douglas Balfour, Ma/Jler,
James Henry Sayre, Senior IJecuwn,
Edwin Clarke Southworth, Sen. Warden, William Elwood Swank, Junior Deacon,
David Thompson Rogers, Jun. Warden, Benjamin Thomas Elmore, Mar•hal,
Lee McLaughlin, Trecuurer,
Benjamin Franklin Tackaberry, l Sf.ew'dJI,
James Cyrus Pottle, Set1retaru,
Thomae Franklin Carlton,
f
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,
Zachariah Thomas Jordan, Ty'lm'.
Paat Maatera 1

James Henry Sayre.

Henry Bascom Rogers,
MAS'rER MASONS :

Anderson, Charles John
Armnth, Alfrtd Samuel
Aston, Charles Herbert
Borne, Miles Fraucis
Byrd, John H
Commings, Alfred Henry
Depew, William Brenning

Dewey, Edward Porter
Fortune, Edward F
Hagen, Andrewy 0
Kutner, Alfred
Lange, Carl Adam
Heaves, Charles Henry

Neely, Herbert William
Shaw, Orlando Chester
Taylor, Leroy
Walton, Isaac A
Weldon, Abraham James
Weston, Charles-81.

WITHDRAWN:

Dixon, Frank Albert
Hamilton, Andrew

Scales, ~orace Homer
Scholes, Jamee Francis

Thompson, Oliver Mc.Grady
-5.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Cavanah, John Crump

Helm, Columbus Woodville-2.

EMMANUEL LODGE, No. 318.
Bte.ra. Butte County,

Stated Mutinga, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Helm McGill, Master,
Fred Richard Stanslll, Senior .Deaoon,
William Rush Cleveland, Senior Warden, Martin Tillman Ivy, Junior Deaoon,
William Mark Doty, Junior Warden,
John Leander Hicks, Marahal,
Lyman William Doty, Trea.>.srer,
Elijah Alpheus Ricker, l Bl
d
f ewar 8 '
Moses La Point,
William Liza.rs Armstrong, Seuretary,
Aaron FStoudt, Ohaplain,
Leander MPlton, 'lykr.
Past Masters1

Orwin Cu!leu Hawkins,

Wendell Phllncios Hammon.
MASTER MASONS:

Beal, John
Demmer, .Mathias
Williams,AlexanderJackson
Bervellller,Jean Nicholas 0. McLeod, John Alexander Woodrnlf, Andrew Moore
Carndnlf, Frank Ford
Smith, Gilman Kendall
-22.
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Manning, Thomas Tyler-1.

1112

[Aug. 1,

Returns of the SUbordinate Lodges

1896.]

Zo the Grand ..LO<lge of California.

1113

FELLOW OR.A.FTS :

Morgan, Thomas Elisha

HOLLENBECK LODGE, No, 319.

Neuner, Colonel Sidney Martin•
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Loa An1relea, Loa Aneelea Coantv.

Barrett, Andrew Washington

Stated .Meetings, second Monday in each month.

WITHDRAWN;

Moore, Henry Israel-2.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES 1.

Willard, Cyrns-1.

OFFICERS•

Straus, Robert Morris
-3.

Kennedy, James Kemper-1.
DIED:

Charles Gottfried Spreng, Senior Deacnn,
John Maren~ Dunsmoor, Master,
William Augustus Hammel,Sen. Warden, Peter Shaw Mackenzie, Jun. Deacon,
Edward Hikes Angostos, Jun. Warden, Henry Sylvanos Snook, Marshal,
stewardll,
~'rede11ick Leix,
Frederick Lamboorn, Tl·eaBUrer,
Levi Osgoode Powers,
John Wllllam Dick, Secretary,
Charles Wolcott Lane, 'l'yler.
William Amon Knighten, Ohaplain,

Barrick, James Rlley-1.

l

PaatMaatera 1

John Marcus Dunsmoor,
Trowbridge Hyer Ward,
George Fergoson,
Horace Bishop Adams,
Daniel Rawlings Browning, James We~!ey Hendrick,
John Slater Ohapman,

George William Simonton,
Rob't Henry Fount'y Variel,
Charles Franklin Yoong.

SOUTH GATE LODGE, No. 320.
Los Anseles, Loe An1eelea County.

MASTER MASONS ;

Gregory, Harvey Kedizie Powers, Edward Everett
Bacon, John W
Hancock, Walter Edward Rees, Samuel
Barber, David Cassat
Hartnett, Oornelius Evans Rheinschild, George
Barnes, Thomas Finlay
Boddy, William
Batcheller, Charles Lucien Harris, Jasper Monroe
Schee, Walter Scott
Holgate, William
Beede, John Wallace
Hollenbeck,Edward Henry Schmidt, Fred'k Wilhelm T.
Bell, James George
Holloway, Calvin Kingsley Sexton, Oharles Wesley
Bell, Otis Freeman
Shanks, Collin
Irvin, Edward Samuel
Benton, Henry Clay
Svircich, Frank
Blanchard, Everett Loring Jacobi, Lonie
Sommerfield,Johnson Wyatt
Johnson, Harry George
Bliesner, William John
Teale, Frederick Houston
Bostwick, Edward Everett Johnson, Peter
Teale, Frederick Joseph
Jordan, Robert Collins
Bradley, William H
Teale, William Robert
· Knight, James Edward
Brant, Byron K
La Berge, Frank Edward Temple, August CF
Bnrr, William Orange
Thomas, Robert Shaw
Bntterworth, Ed. Summers Levering, Martin Murry
Thompson, Thomas
Logan, Charles Lincoln
Campbell, Ueorge W
Thornton, William Crane
Loomis, Lester Grant
Chandler, Burdette
Timble, Henry Bassatter
Charlton, Charles Augustus Mackay, Roderick
McLagan, Charles Symon Variel, William James
Ooohran, Malcom
Wandling,George Benjamin
McNeil, James Elliott
Cowan, John
Warren, Sugh Meade
Moore, Stephen W
Crail, James
Webb, Walter Lawton
Morgan, Octavius
Christy, Adison Barton
White, Myers Taylor
Commlngs,Marsh'l Spencer Morrison, Norman Holt
Morse, Frederick Theodore·Wllits, Frank Lee
Davisson, John Harvey
Mottram, John Hy. Harper Wirsching, Robert Ernest
Densmore, Edwin
Workman, William Henry
Morphy, Olaire Warren
Dessery, Alfred Bonny
Newkirk, Adamson Bentley Worland, Henry Clay
Dessery, Victor
Worsham, William Graham
Nye, Oharles Isaac
Dunning, Day Hix
Wylie, Jol!n l'erry
Orvis, Joseph Lader
Ellis, George Reed
Youngworth, Leo Valtas
Ford, Geo. Jackson Parker Philip, Henry B
-113.
Forrester, Arthur Walter Pixton, James

· Stated Meetings, first Fridag in each month.
OFFICERS a

Willia Charles Marsh, Senior Deacon,
Elbert Taylor Parke, .Maater,
T~o~as Roswell Dering, Senior Warden, William Elllott Martin, Junior Deao<>n,
Wilham Henry Gaynor, Junior Warden, Eel ward Clarence Foster, Marahal,
James Scipione Castraccio, Treasurer, Leonell Anzoletto Longley, l
f Stewards,
John Anthony Mathis
Alexander Patterson, Bec,.elary,
Andrew Jackson Len~x, T!J'ler.
Daniel Arthor Wagner, Oh.apkJ.in,
Pa.atMa.atena

Frank Charles Wolf,
William John Magee,

Peterson Amith Baker,
Edward Weck,

James Pinkerton McAllister.

MASTER MASONS:

Ellis, Isaac Newton
Bnlftnch, Stephen Amos
Adams, Joseph Franklin
Campbell, Emerson Bristol Fraser, Alex. Roseborough
Alexander, George
Gauld, Hugh McKenzie
Alford, Ohaancey Higley Carter, Harry Von
George, Leb x.
Castraccio, Benedict
Allen, Albert .d
Gerson, Edward
Anderson, Wm. J. Archib'd Christin, Leo Stallow
Gray, Alexander
Clark, Thomas Maxwell
Ashman, James
Green, Wright Farmer
Coumbe, Alfred John
Barrett, Frederick
Grindell, Thomas Fletcher
Cox, John Randolph
Beers, Samuel Perry
Hawks, William
Bellringer, Edward Aubrey Crippen, Ellery Hicks
Hayes, John
Cutler, George Albert
Bells, Ephraim Wilson
Hitchcock, William Weslev
De Berry, Angus Jasper
Beyrle, Robert
Holland, Laurin Thomas •
Dill, Robbie Everett
Bird, Arthur Milton
Hopkins, Harry Lincoln
Bonsall,.•Wm •.Hartshorne Drain, John Hamilton
Horton, Rafas Landon
Bromynge, Walter Alfred Drake, Alfred Benjamin
Howe, George Edward
Dnsol, Robert Moses
Brooks, James Marion
Jensen, Henry Christian
Branson, Marenos Alonzo Ducasse, Peter Leon
Johnson, Franklin
Brnnswlck, Adolph Marlon Elliott, Thom.as Henry

51

1114

Returns of the SUbordinate Lo<lges . [Aug. 1,

Sha.fer, Charles Franklin
Klero.llf, Benjamin FrankliJ!JNadean, Hubert
Skillman, William B
Noble, Ivory Beau
Koster, Charles Edward
Parke, Oliver Hazzard P. Smith, Asbury Gilbert
Lacroix, John Francis
Sprague, William Brown
Lander, Benje.min Stewart Parker, Francis Marion
Stansbnry, Chades Vivian
Lidgerwood, Geo. Irving Parker, James Eads
Stanton, Lewis Edgar
.L ittle, Frederick Engene Pepe, Fernando
Steckel, George
Perry, Arthur St.. Ola.ir
Lloyd, Charles
Stewart, John Taylor
Pessell, George Donglas
Lloyd, Edward
Stine, Isaac D
Lncas, Ebenezer Wesley Porter, William Sterling
Botton, James Nuttle
Potts, Henry Ba.mnel
Lncas, John Alfred
Swartz, Charles Freeman
Martin, Coomler Hoffman Preston, Jasper Newton
Raymond, Edwin William Tagge.rt, Charles Ferdinand
Martin, William Byard
Taylor, Charles Rossell
Rebman, John
Ma.this, Elbert Nelson
Thomas, Milton Harper
Reel, Peter Alexander
McConnell, Lee Alene
McGilliard, Gideon Deioes Richardson, Robert Monroe Tufts, John Qnincy
Van Alstine, Geo. Warren
Riley, Daniel Pike
McKay, William
Van Lew, Frederick
Roth, Angnst
McKeon, ORoy
Walsh, Frank Edward
Rontzahn, Willis Harsey
McKeon, Harry
Weber, John
McKinley, James Welford Sawhill, Frelinghuysen
Welch, Charles Emery
Mentry, Charles ATuxander Bchmldtz, John
White, Frank Harrison
Mitchell, Samnel Lafyatt Scott, Arthur Moreman
Scott, George Washington Willard, Cyrn11
Morland, Joseph Alvie
Scovel, George Schofield Wood, George Henry
Morse, Henry Clay
Young, Wllliam-141.
Bentons, Camille
Morse, Panl Robinson
Mills, William S
FELLOW OBA.FT :

' 1896.]

To the Grand Lo<lge of VaUfornia.
Past lllaaCer :

Henry Pierce Chadbourne.
MAt!TER MASONS:

Bonde, Hans Peter
Crellin, Ernest Willard
Johnson, George

Mohr, Henry Pan!
Platt, Alfred George
Silver, Thomas Homer

Alham.bra, Los Anlfelea County.

Stated Meetings, .second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward Brookbank Stoa.rt, Senior De(IO(ln,
Waldo Paschal Johnson, Maater,
Francis Edward Gray, Senior Warden, Daniel Webster .March, Junior Deacon,
Henry Irving Hanscome, Junior Warden, George Washington Fortney, Marllhal,
Robert Pottol, l steroard.a,
James Jasper Rich, Treaaurer,
Hans Olsen, f
Newton Warner Thompson, Seoretary,
John .Messenger, Tylsr.
Paat llla•tera 1

Norv&l Gibson Felker,

ENTERED APPRENTIOES :
BEBTOBED:

Carey, Arthur Hngh-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Berkey, Charlee Edward

Bowers, Wesley Olay

Carey, Arthnr Hngh-3.

SUSPENDED FOR NON•PAYMENT OF DUES:

Blom, Abra.ham
Carey, Arthnr Hngh

James .Montgomery Crea.mer,

Wilson, Frank t!tewart-2.

Martin, William Byard

Jencks, George
Martin, Wlllia.m Byard

Pinel, Emile Jean-5.

ALISAL LODGE, No. 321.
l"lea•anton. Alam.eda County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OF'FICERS1

William Henry Cope, M<Ul.er,
Thomas William Harris, Senior Warden,
Charles Lonie Crellin, Junior Warden,
Edward Lewis Benedict, 7reaaurer,
George Fredom Gilson, Secretary,
Richmond Loga.n 1 Ohaplain,

Walter, Louis Christian
Weilbye, Jnlius Lars-21.

ALHAMBRA LODGE, No. 322.

Croae, Jnlian Bmith-1.
Udell, Oharles Arthnr

1115

Ernest Edwin Hall, Senior Deaoon,
Harris Arendt, Junior Deacon,
William Harris, .Marshal,
Christian Hansen Dall, l Ste.want&,
f
John Adolf Bilz,
James Gillis, 1'yler.

James Jasper Rich.

MASTER MASONS :

Borden, Gail
Cle.pp, Albert Adams
Ferguson, Edwin Pan!
Green, John .A
Johnson, Milbank

Mackie, James
McDonough, James
Sorensen, Neal
Btnart, Thomas Jefferson

Ware, Edward Beptim11s
Ware, Henry Peace
Whittemore, William Henry
Witherbee, Orville 0.-26.

WITHDRAWN:

Jones, Charles Edward-2.

Clifford, John

WHITTIER LODGE, No. 323.
Whittler, Los AnlfelH County.

Stated Meeting1, Thursday of or ne:d preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS•

Ch&rles Oliver Tacker, Master,
William Macy Hiatt, Senior Warden,
Arthur William Swain, Junior Warden,
Charles Palmer Livingston, '.freaaurer,
Samuel Girvin Bailie, Secretary,
John Wood, Ohap'lain,

Nathan David Ellis, Senior Deacon,
Anoll Gwin, Junior Deaoon,
Charles H. Bntterfield, Marshal,
Frederick Thompson, l Btetoarda,
f
Joseph H. Boa.lee,
George Washington Cox, './Yler.

1116

· Returns of the Subordinate Lo<iges

[Aug. 1,

Past Maaters:

Milo Allen,

Robert B Way.
MASTER MASONS:

J ohnstoo, Rufus
Keller, Julina H.
Lawhead, George C.
Towne, George Austin-27.

Allison, Sidney .Mortimer
Arnold, Benjamin F.
Bennink, Ernest William
Coleman, Samoel S.
Dunlap, Albert Houston

Gwin, John Henry, Jr.
Hiatt, J oho a
Hole, Willetts J
Horney, Gilbert Harvey

Jlurgess, William Eugene

Dunlap, Albert Houston, Jr.

FELLOW ORAFTS :

WITHDBAWN :

l896.]

To the Grand Lodge of Oal,ifornia.

1117

Skillen, Ralph George
Jewett,Stanl'yPunchards'n Mohr, Richard Jacob;
Slavin, Matthew
Kernaghac, George Fred'k Morris, Homer
Somers, William Henry
Ne!f, Edwin Dorland
Keyes, Oharles Henry
Staats, William Richardson
Klamroth, Henry Herbert Orban, Peter
Stowell, Eugene Alexander
Lippincott,Sam'l Risdon,Jr. Polley, Frank John
Porter, La Fayette Seward Torrance, Lewis Curtiss
Losee, Emory Albert
Markham, Henry Harrison Randall, Merton Orlando Van Nuys, Hezekiah
Van Noye, William Nelson
McClintock, John Rossell Rhodes, Charles Hilliard
McPherson, Wm. Benton Sherman, Henry Bushnell Wood, John Windell-SO.
Millard, Frederic Charles Skillen, Charles Moses

Tresckow, Herman Von
-3.

FELLOW ORAFT:

Fessenden, Alfred Newton-I.

011ster, Harrison K-1.

ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Horton, George Clifford
Leithead, William Wilson

Longley, Frank Howard

DIED:

WITHDRAWN:

Weed, Oscar F-1.

Rossitter, John Gormley--4

McGilvray, William Donald-I.

CORONA LODGE, No. 324.
Paaadena. Los Anarele• County.

Stated Meetinga, second Thuraday in each month.

CONSUELO LODGE, No. 325.

OFFICERS1

Nelson William Bell, Senior Deacon,
Eugene Cook Griffith, Ma1ter,
Walter Livingston Wotkyos, 8. Warden, Charles Webster Bell, Junior Deaoon,
Edward Everett Gaylord, Jun. Warden, William Shibley, Marshal,
Wallace Kendall Gaylord, l Stqwardll
Jnlins Albert Jacobs, Trea8Urer,
'
Arthur Frederick Fuller, f
Ernest Heath May, Secretary,
Wyllys Hall, Ohaplain,
Neils Lewis Thompson (of Pasadena Lodge, No. 272), Tyler.
Past Masters r

Charles Joseph Willett,
John Richard Slater,
Arthur Henry Conger,
Charles Wooster,
Leander Warren Frary,P.G.M. Edward Groeoeodyke,
Julina Albert Jacobs,

Arthur Hopkins Palmer,
Joseph Elmer Smyth,
Lother Hight Webb.

Eaoondtdo, San Dtearo Coantv.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERSt

Edward Marion Churchill, Senior Deacon,
- - - - - - , Malter,
Edward Jackson Hatch, Senior Warden, Jehoida H. Worth, Junwr Deacon,
Alvin Webster Wohlford, Junior Warden, Henry Como Ray, Mar1hal,
l Bt,ewardl,
Charles Lowell Estey,
John Charles Dickson, Treasurer,
James Rankin Stevenson, f
John Neil Turrentine, 8eoretar11,
George Randolph Jenkins, Tyler.
- - - -·- - - - , Ohaplain,
Past Maater 11

William Luther Ramey.

MASTER MASONS :

Green, Edward Willis
Brown, George Edward
Allen, Samuel Maxwell
Green, Manly P
Coffin, George Holman
Allio, John
Hansen, Lorenz Peter
Crossman, James Dono
Ayers, Mortimer
Harris, Fred Reid
Deacon, George
Ball, Benjamin Franklin
Batchelder, Benj. Franklin Dickinson, Gardiner Wm. Hertel, Herman Rudolph
Hines, Henry Willis
Fish, Charles Edward
Biles, Fred Eugene
Holmes, James Hoston
Frost, Charles Henry
Blatz, Herman
Fnrnald,Fred'k Henry Olay Howe, Edward Tucker
Bleecker, John James
Getchell, Charles Edward Holl, Edward Richard
Braddock, Oscar Louis
Hutchins, Alfred
Greene,.Duane'.M:errltt
Braley,-Frank Titus

MASTER MASONS :

O'Brien, William Thomas
Kelly, John
Blethen, John Bradley
J.egore, Andrew Jackson Phillips, Andrew
Boyle, James
Pruner, Harvey W
Churchill, Charles.Bowman Lehner, George
Sherrard, Joseph Hamilton
McKean, John Benjamin
Gipp•, Montagne
Wilson, Edmond Clark
Golden, Shadrack Richard McNeil, Louis Wadhams
Hartshorn, Charles Darwin Merriam, Gustavus French Witt, Charles Granville-SO,
Jereslaw, Will
WITHDRAWN:

Flick, Warren Jay

Gundrum, Frederick-2.

1118

Returns of the Suhordinate Lodge.s

[Aug. 1,

1896.J

To

t,,;, Grand Lodge of California.

1119

NEEDLES LODGE, U. D.
Needles, San Bernardino Coanty.

Stated Meetinga, second Monday in each month.
OFFICER!ii1

Albert Henry Sterns, Master,
Francis Monaghan, Senior Warden,
John Alex Christie, Junior Warden,
Ben Loan Holmes, Treaaurer,
Robert Boyle Warren, Secretary,
John Fletcher Brown, Ohaplain,

Sidney Rom11nte Boardman, Sen. Deaoon,
Louis Ernest Mittendorf, Junior Deacon,
Abner Lafayette Crew, Marshal,
Jesse Cortis Smitley, t Stewarcls
Frank Wilfred Elwood, f
'
Samuel Olarence Shale, Tyler.

EXPULSIONS, SUSPENSIONS AND ACQUITTALS.

MASTER MASONS :

Briggs, George Smith
Miller, William Lewis
Brownell, Charles Hanson Morphy, Daniel
Driggs, Morgan
Newball, Henry Martin
Gooding, Leonard
Perry, George Henry
La Rae, James Edgar
Platner, William Albert
Liddell, William Ranselier Rice, Alvarado M1111on

Stevens, Joseph Thomas
Snyder, Alfred Wyatt
Topp, William Wallace
Wood, Samuel
Yoong, George Aastin-29.

EXPULSIONS BY LODGES, AFFIRMED:
No. 279, .••• November 2, 1895;
Orville Benedict Phelps, •• ,. by Hanford Lodge,
Peter Bonardi (B. A,), ....... by Magnolia Lodge,
" 242, .••. Febrnary 20, 1896;
Stephen Farrington, •.•••••.• by Ellening Star Lodge, " 186,, ••. March
28, 1896;
Samuel George Baker, •••••. by Norwalk Lodge,
" 315, .... Aagust 18, 1896.
SUSPENSIONS
FOB UNHABONIO CONDUCT, AFFIRMED :

LONG BEACH LODGE, U. D.
Lone Beach, Lo• Anplea County.

Stated Meetinga, 'l'huraday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Charles Edward Mitchell, Master,
Henry Clay Dillon, Senior Warden,
Rassel Kingcade, Junior Warden,
William Wallace Lowe, 7reasurer,
Wealey Clay Bowers, Secretary,
- - - - - - , Ohaplain,

Jobn Wesley Hanselman,

Charles Edward Mitchell.

MASTER MASONS:

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

SUSPENDED BY GRAND LODGE:
Rpbert Chrestesen, ••.••••.•••••• of Elk Grove Lodge, No. 115, .••. October 15, 1896.
ACQUITTAL APPROVED:
David Albert Shaw, .......... , by Azusa Lodge, No. 305,. ........ February 4, 1895.

Bailey, Henry Clay
Hayes, Charles Goold
Roscrans, Ephraim
Briggs, William Lambden Johnson, Obas. l<'itz Abner Schilling, William
Finlayson, John
Lightbarn, John Fell
Stovell, Thomas
Flint, George Clifford
Lillard, Zaobray Taylor
Taylor, Hnmpbrey
Galer, William
Morrison, William Jasper Thornburg, Cbar!ey Hix:
Hammer, Samnel.Crawford Parsey, Francis Joseph
Vanderburg, Robert Benton
Harrison, Henry
Roberts, John
Wingard,Derril Lemael-82.
Haworth, William Penn
Kenyon, Brewster Cox-I.

EXPELLED BY GRAND LODGE:
William Henry Mentor, •••••••• of JanesviUe Lodge, No. 232, ••••• October 16, 1896,

John Wesley Hanselman, Senior Deacon,
Harry Bateham .Marshall, Junior Deacon,
Joseph James Hart, Marshal,
George Wesley Bond, t StmJJards,
Chestar a Clewett,
f
- - - - - - , Tyler.

Pad Masters:

Henry Clay Dillon,

William Wynn Redmon Beeves, by a Commission, .............. November 29, 1895;
Philip Hammond, .............. by California Lodge, No. 1••••. Jannary
2, 1896;
James Daniel Reilly, •.•.•••••• by Forest Lodge,
" 66,. ... August
22, 1896.

I

II

~

l"" =

:s

~&

.....
~ 1 ~ ""
iS

f'1

&:

:a

l

I
... l . ~If
=I== ...

'"'""'.. 12 14 15 18 . . 6 7 8 ... . 19

==

-:
.. .. ..

19 MARIPOSA, ........ . ... ,; •• 24 Mariposa, •••.•••• Mariposa, • •••••••. May 6, 1863. 60 6 6 2 2 2 1 1 , .. 2 . . • • • 5 2 11 33
SS .. 6 6 8 9 2 8 • . • . • • . . . . . l 2 l 66
"
"
20 GEORGETOWN,........ .. .... 26 Georgetown, •••.. EI Dorado,.... ..... "
30 ii 6 8 S 2 2 . . • .. . . . . . . . . 4 2 l 44
6, "
21 EL DORA.DO, .•••••...••..•• 26 Placerville, ..•• . •• El Dorado,. . ....... "
60 .. 12 11 8 4. ••• l l 1 . •. . . . . . 8 1 66
.. "
22 TRINITY,.. . . .•.. .. ••• ••.•• 27 Weaverville,.. ..• . Trinity,............ "
....... ...... , .. . .•• .• . •. ; .•...•..•. . •. ..
Ol 'IT CoLUllBIA, •. . .. . • • .. • • . . . • 28 Columbia,. ....••. Tuolumne,. ........ •• 5, "
.................... . , . ......... . ........
" "
"
~ • DIAMOND,. •••.•.•••••••••• 29 Diamond Springs,. El Dorado,.........
50 11 12 14. 18 18 2 · 2 S 6 • . . . • 6... • • . 18~
" "
23 GOLDEN GATE,............. 30 San Francisco,..• • San Francisco,..... "
...••.•...•....•.•••.•..•....... ••.•.•.••.•••
"
"
"
'IT MOKELUKNE, .....••.•••• , •• 31 Mokelnmne Hill, .. Calaveras,.. .......
30 l 6 Ii 5 11 . . • • . . .. • .. . . . .. . • • 2 . .. 43
" "
24 GoLD IIILL, .•.. •••.••. •.• 32 Lincoln, .•.•. ..•. Placer,. . . ..... .... "
60 4. 6 1 8 3 •.• ~ • .. . . • • . . • . . .• I... 42
"
"
26 OPHIR, ....••.•••..••.•••• 33 Mnrph{;'s, ........ Calaveras,.. .... ... "
t BANTA CLAR.l, ••• ••• •••• •• 34 Santa lara, . •.•.. Santa Clara,....... " " " .. . ............................... ...........
7 1 186
50 .. 6 11 11 11 H 2 6 3 • . • . .
7, "
26 SAN DIEGO, . .............. 35 San Diego,........ San Diego,.... . .... "
• BUTTE,. .................. 36 Bidwell, . . . ....... Butte,.••••..••• ••. May 3, 1854............................... ...............
75 1 6 2 !l 1 . . • • . l . .. . . • • . • • • 4. 2 64
... "
27 SA.INT JOHN'S,.. • • • • . . • • • • 37 Yreka, ........••.• Siskiyou, . ., ... .. .. "
SO 1 6 7 6 2 . . . • • S 6 • • . • • 1 2 4. 120
"
"
28 SANTA CRUZ,.............. 38 Santa Cruz, ....... Santa Cruz,........ "
50 • . 6 2 8 S ..•.••• , . . • . . . • . 2 2 I 92
" "
29 YusA, •. . • • • • . . • .. . . • • • • • 39 Marysville, •..•.•. Yuba,............. "
6 6 6 S S .. . 4. • • • • • 8 . .. 1 161
75 . .
"
"
30 SACRAMENTO,.......... . ... 40 Sacramento,••. . •. Sacrnmento, •. • • • • . "
30 . . 6 111 18 18 S 1 • . . 2 . . . .. l 6 4. 78
" "
31 MARTINEZ,... . . • • • • • • • • . . . 4.1 Martinez, .•••.... Contra Costa,...... "
60 .. 6 12 12 14. 6 . . 2 6 • • . . . 6 4. 1 170
5, "
32 Los ANGELES, .••••••••.••• 42 Los Angeles, .•••• Los Angeles,....... "
80 • . 6 l • , . 1 • .. • • • .. • .. . . • • . . • . 1 . .. 28
S, "
33 HmAH,. .... .... ... ....... 4.3 El Dorado, . ..•... El Dorado,.. ... .... "
75 10 6 10 11 9 l l 2 6 • . • . . 11 4 3 218
"
"
34 MOUNT MORIAH, . •• •••••••• 44 San Francisco,•... San Francisco,.. ... "
50 .. 10 4. 4 4 S.. 1 l . . • . . . . • •.• . .. 33
" "
35 CRESCENT, •.. • .•.•.. • •. ... 45 Crescent City, .• •• Del Norte,......... "
1 6 . • . .. • • •• • • . . . • • • • . • • . • . . 1 • . . . . • 28
SO
"
4.,
"
36 TEXAS, • .•.•. . . . ••.••••••. 46 San Juan, . .•..••• San Benito,........
60 6 6 . • • .. • • •• .. • .. 7 . . • .. . . • 1 • . . • . . 24
3, ..
37 MrnmGAN CITY,........... 47 Michil\ran Bluii, .... Placer,. .......... . "
••.•••..•.••.•.•..•••..••.•.•. •...••.... • ••••
"
"
• GRASS VALI.JIY, .••••••.••. 48 Grass alley, .•••• Nevada,........... "
t LEBANON, •.••••••••••••••• 49 San Francisco, .•• . San Francisco,..... " " " ... ..• .... ...•• , . . • . . . . . • .. . •. • • .. . • . • . •••..
SO . . 6 2 2. 1 . .. · .••••.•.• , • . 1 • . • 1 4.0
"
"
38 FoRBESTOWN, •.• .•• ••••••• 60 Forbestown,.•.••. Butte,............. "
30 .. 6 l 1 1 . .• . . . .• . . • ... • . ... 1... Sl
" "
39 fr.LINOISTOWN, ..••••••.••. 61 Colfax, . ...••. . ••• Placer,............ "
..... . .... ..... . .. . . . . . .. ., ..• • ; ·: .• . . •.. ; ••••
•• "
• RoUGH&READY, .••.••.••• 62 Rough&Ready, .. Nevada, •••••••.••• "
......... . .. ...... ....... . ....... . ....
.......
"
"
"
Sacramento,.......
•..•..
Sacramento,
• FRANKLIN, ................ 53
• SAINT JAllES', •...••..••.. 54 Jamestown, ...... Tuolumne, ..•• •• . • . May 2, 1866 . ........ ........ .......... . . . . . . ...... . . .....
SO 5 12 7 8 8. .• . • 1 ( 1 •• 8 2 l 71
"
"
40-SUISUN,.................. . 55 Suisun, ••..•....•. Solano, . . •••••• ;... "
60 5 6 ~ 1 l . • • • • 2 • . .. . . . . .. l. •• 18
" "
41 VOLCANO, ................. 56 Volcano, ......... Amador,... .. ..... . "
8 6 12 ll S ' . • • . . 2 3 • , • 191
50 1 3
"
"
42 SANTA. RosA,.... .... .. . .. . 67 Santa Rosa, •• . .•• Sonoma, .. . . . . • • • • "
4 • • • 163
76 S ll 6 & 4 S 2 8 • • . .. • • •
" "
43 UNION, ................... 68 Sacramento,..... • Sacramento,....... "
I... 82
l 1 . .• • • 1 • .. . . . • .
.
•
.
8
•
•
SO
"
"
"
44. GRAVEL RA.Nos, ..•••••••. 69 Camptonville, ..•• Yuba,.............
. . • . . 1 1 1 21
50 • . 6 . • . . . . 1 • • . • . S
" "
46 PLIDIA.B,. . • . • . • • • . . • . • • • • • 60 Quincy,........... Plumas,........... "
260
1 l 4 .. . • • I 6
60 10 6 36 S'l 87
" "
46 LIVE OAK,.••••••• •• .••••• 61 Oakland, ... ..... . Alameda, .•• • •• • • • "
s, " so .. 6 3 s 4. l.. 1 ... . .. •• 6. . • • .• 18
47 GEORGE WASHINGTON, .••.• 62 Chinese Camp, ••. . Tuolumne,......... "
..
..
..
.........
,
•••....•
•
••.•••
•..••
••••
.
••..
"
"
"
Placer,............
••••
.••.
Hill,
Iowa
63
• IowA. HILL, •.... ••.•••••••

thus tare now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Oregon-those marked thu• § are now uuder the jurisdiction of tho Grand Lodge of Nevada-those
marked thus I are now under the jurisdiction of tho Grand Lodge of Arizona-and those marked thus ~ have consolidated as follows : Mary1ville, No. 9, and
Corintlu'.a.n, No. 69, under the designation of CorinU.ian, No. 9; Saint John'•• No. S7, and Si11ciyou, No. 105, under the rleolgnatlon of Saint John'•, No. 37 ;
Tu<>Zumne, No. 8, .Vnunt Jf.fft':r1on, No. 107, ancl Columbia, No. 28, un<l~r the des!Qnation of Tuo!umM, No. 8; Colma, No. U2, and Equality, No. 2!0, under the
designation of Coliua, No. 2tO; Saint Lou\&, No. 86, and Gib1onuill•, No. 158, under the designation of Gib1onviU., No. 158; Mok<lumM, No. 311 and Calaurtu,
No. 78, under the designation of Cala~•ra•, No. 78; Natmn.a, No. M, and Latrob•, No. 189, under the designation of Natoma, No. M; and Nebrtuka, No. 71, and Iom,
No. 80, under tho designation of Ione, No. 80.-GEOROE Jom1eoN, Gr &c.

4 l 472
10ALIPORNIA, ••• ••• • •• ••• • 1 San Francisco, •.• San Francisco,. ••.• April 19, 1860. 50
30 •. 12 2 2 2 . .. . . . . . • • . . • . . . . • • • . . . . 53
" "
2 WESTRRN STAB, • • . . • • • • • • • 2 Shasta,. • •...•. ... Shasta,. .... .. ..... "
. . . 116
•.
•
3
.
.
.
.
.
2
1
.
.
8
5
6
5
6
5
75
"
"
"
Sacramento,.......
•.••••
3 TEHAMA,............. .. ... 3 Sacramento,
......................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
" "
•JENNINGS,................ 4 Sacramento,. .. .. . Sacramento,....... "
50 .. 12 2 2 2 . • . . . 2 9 . • . . . • . l . • . «
" "
4 BENicu.,.. .. .............. 5 Benicia,.. .... .•• . Solano,............ "
. .. ......... . . . . .... .. .. .
*SUTTER,........... . ...... 6. Sacramento, ...... Sacramento, . •.•••. May 7, "
t SAN FRANCISCO,.. .. .• . • • . 7 San Francisco,. . .• San Francisco, ..••. Nov. 27, " ... .. . . . . : . • . . . .. . . • .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
50 2 6 8 2 6 R .. 1 .. . . • . . . 2 2 1 110
" "
6 TuoLtrHNE,..... . ... . ...... 8 Sonora,........... Tuolumne, • • • . • . • . "
50.. 6 3 6 4 l l 3 4 .. . . . 1 2 3 88
"
"
6 CORiliTBIAN,..... ••• . •• • • • 9 Marysville, ....... Yuba,.............. "
50 . . 9 2 3 3 . 7 l ... 17 ..... 2 2 l 196
"
"
"
,...
..•
Clara,
Santa
...
.
•.•..
Jose,
San
10
7 SAN Joss, .. ............ ...
t WILLA.METTS, .......... ... 11 Portland,.... ... . . Oregon Territory,.. " " " ...... ....... .. . ... .. . ..... . ... . .... .. ..... .
s 3 98
8YoUNT, . ....... ... .. .... .. 12 Napa, .. .... .. .... Napa, ............. May 6, 1861. 50 .. 9 2 4 4 1 . . l .... .. .. l
50 .. 6 7 G 7 2.. ... 7 ..... 3 1 .•. 128
" "
9NsvADA,•...••.•••••••.••• 13 Nevada, . .••• •••.• Nevada,. .......... "
50 I! 6 .. .... •• •.. . 1 ... 1 .••. . 2 3 1 41
"
"
lOTEKPLE, ...•.••••••••••••• 14 Sonoma,.... .. .... Sonoma,........... "
:f LA. FAYETTE, ............. 15 La Fayette,.••.••. Oregon·Territory,.. " 9, " .. . . . ............ . .. . ..... ...... . . . . . . ..... .
l 1 1 . . l . . . . . • . . S . . . . • . 46
50 . . 6 l
"
7,
Nov.
.
..
...
.
..
11 EUREKA,.............. . ... 16 Auburn,......••.• Placer, ...
12 PARFAITE UNION,.......... 17 San Francisco,•.•• San Francisco, ..... May 5, 1862. 75 5 l'.I 5 7 6 . . . .. 3 1 .•... 3 1 l 105
50 . . 6 . . • . . . . • . 1 . . . . • . . . . . . . . 2 . • . . • . 36
" "
13 )t{ouNTAIN SRADB,..... . ... 18 Downie ville,...... Sierra,......... . . . . "
50.. 6 l . . . .. . 2 . . ... . . . •. . . 3 2... 97
"
"
141SA.N JOAQUIN,...... ....... 19 Stockton,........ . San Joaquin,. ..... "
75 1 9 3 4 2 . • . . . . • . .. . . . • . . 1 1 2 78
"
"
"
Sacramento,.......
.•.••
Sacramento,
20
WASHINGTON,.............
16
5t 5 12 19 19 20 4.. 11 6 .• ... 2 3 ..• 139
"
"
16 HAWAIIAN,............... 21 Honolulu,......... Hawaiian Islands,. . "
5! .. 12 23 26 28 L. 2 5 . • . . . 7 3 . • . 222
20, "
17 OccrnEi."TAL,..... .. ....... 22 San Francisco, ... San Francisco,. .... "
181MADISON,. . .... •. ..• • • ••• . 23 Grass Valley,. •..• Nevada, .. .. . ...... May 5, 1863. 511. . 8 6 6 6 l .. . . . 2 ..... 5 . . . . . . 130
Nou. ThOll<l 1¢gea in tho present list marked thus• have surrendered their oharters-thOll<l marked thus t have had their charters revoked-thooe marked

jI
I

With a Summary of their Reports for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. ~896.
I .; §! . .a
_.; ~
~§ .
NAllBS
DATE WREN ~ llJ .,,
PLACE OP LOCATION.
I
"N
~~I]
j~ s cS'S
CHARTER w AS ~ ~ i:t
"i
~~
OP LODGBS.
ORDERED.
I z~
COUNTY.
TOWN.
~
~ "
jJ""~a r.i 'i
!cl ~ ~

LIST OF THE SUBORDINATE LODGES,

t-:2..
......

.....
......

~·

~

~

~

~

a.

j

~
5.

~

....

.s;:_

w

(0
Cl)

00

~

!"""

t
i

a.

i[

~

~

....~

0

~

......
......

LODGES.

I
TOWN.

I

COUNTY.

PLACE 01" LOCATION.

I
ORDERED.

CHARTER WAI

I DATE WHEN

.
.

..

"
"

"
"
"

"

.. ..
..

"

"
"
"
"
"

u

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

9,
8,

"

4, "
1, "
8, 1856.

"

"
"

U

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

3,
2,

H

"
"
"
"
"

" "
" "
" "

94 Elizabethtown, . • . Plumas , ....•... • • May 8, 1856.
u
u
"
95 Sutter Creek,. .•.. Amador,
96 Yreka, .. ... .. . ... Siskiyou, ........ .
iJ9 JEFFERSON,. . . ..... •.••••• 97 La Porte,......... Plumas, . ......... .
70 HORNITOS, ............... . 98 Hornitos,. .•.. •..• Mariposa, ........ .
71 LA GRANGE,. . . ........... . 99 Merced,. ......... Merced, ........ .
72 UAMPO BBOo,......... .. .. . 100 Campo Seco,. .• .. Calaveras, ......• .
"·
73 CLAY,. . .. ............... . 101 Dutch Flat,. .. • ... Placer, ... ....... . "
74 MANZA.NITA,. ....... . ..... . 102 North San Juan,.. Neva da, ..... .......
75 OROVILLE,. ........ . . ... .. 103 Oroville,. ......... Butte, .. .. ... .. . .
76 LEXINGTON .. ............. . 104 El Moote, .....••. Los Angeles,. .... •
15,
'Ir - SISKIYOU................. . 105 Henley,. ......... Siskiyou,. .•.• . ....
"
77 ARCATA,. ... ....... . .... . . 106 Arcata, . .......•. Humboldt, ..•. . . •• May 14, 1857.
'Ir MOUNT JEFFERSON,. .•..••. 107 Garrote,... . ...... Tuolumne, .• . .•.. . "
" "
780WEN, ............ . .... .. 108 Scott's Bar,. . . . , .. Siskiyou,... . , ... : .
.. DIBBLE, ................ .. 109 Omega,. .. ....... Nevada, ......... .
79 PAJARO,. . . . .....•. . ... . .. 110 Watsonville,. ..... Santa Cruz,. ..... .
80 CHICO,. .... ...... . ...... .. 111 Chico, . . ... . ...... Butte, ........... .
81 SUMMIT,. . ... ...... . ... . .. 112 Knight's Ferry, .. . Stanislaus,. ...... .
"
82EDEN,. .......... . ...... .. 113 San Leandro,. .... Alame da,. ...... ..
83 MouNTZrON,. .... .. ...... · 114 Grizzly Flat,....•.• El Dore.do,. ••.....
'Ir SAINT MARK'S,. ......... .. 115 Fiddletown, •.•... Amador, ......... .
.. WINDSOR,. ....... .. ...... . 116 Windsor, . .. • . . . . . Sierra, ..... .. ... . .
84CoNCORD,. .............. •• 117 Sacramento, ....... Sacramento, . .. • • .
15, "
• VALLECITO,. .. • , .. . ..... • • 118 Vallecito,. ..... , • Calaveras, •••...•. May 13, 1868.
85 CLINTON, ................ . 119 Igo, ••.... •. .... . . Shasta,. .... .. . .. . "
" "
86 FIDELITY~ .............. .. 120 San Francisco,. ... San Francisco,. ••.
87 foNIC,. .. .. .. ... ..... • ... . 121 Iowa Hill,. ...•... Placer, ... ....... .
"
88 ALAMO ,. . ................ . 122 Walnut Creek, .••. Contra Costa, ...••
89 SoTOYOME, ..• .. ..• , .. • • • • 123 Healdsburg, ••..•. Sonoma,. •. .......
90 TABLE MOUNTAIN, , •••. ···• 124 Cherokee,. ... .. , Butte,. ......... . .
"
t PROGRESS,. .............. . 125 San Francisco, ... • San Francisco,. •••
• 91 LA FAYE'l'rE,. . ........... . 126 Sebastopol,....... Sonoma,. ..•....• ,
92HERlll!ANN,. . ..... ........ . 127 San Francisco,. . .. San Francisco, .. ••
93 VISALIA,. ...... . ......... . 128 Visalia, ........... Tulare, .. . . ...... . May 14, 1859.
94 NICOLAUS,. .. .... ........ . 129 Whee.Mand, ...... Yuba, .......... . . " 13, "
.. UNITY,. .................. . 130 San Bernardino, •. San Bernardino, .••
"
96 WOODBRIDGE, .. ... ... . ... . 131 Woodbridge, ..... San Joaquin, .....
96 SINCERITY, .............. . 132 Taylorsville, ..... Plumas,.•.••••••••
"
97 YOSEMITE,. .............. . 133 Coulterville, ...... Mariposa, .•• • . , .••
68 HOWARD, •. .• . ••• ....... •.

• MouNT HERMON,. ..... . .. •.
67 HENRY CLAY,. •• , ........ .

..

..
......

"
49 A)(Al)OR,. ................. 65 Jackson, • . ••..••. Amador,. .••••••••
50 FOREST,................... 66 Alleghany,. • • •.. Sierra~ ......•••••• "
"
.. MINNESOTA,. ......... •• ••• 67 Minnesota, ....•.. Sierra, ...........
51 MORNING STAR,............ 68 Stockton, ........ San Joaqnin,•.•••.• "
'Ir CORINTHIAN........... . ... 69 Marysville, .. .•... Yuba, ............. "
52 ENTERPRISE,. •••••.••••.•. 70 Yuba City,. ...... Sutter,. .••..•..•.• "
'Ir NEBRASKA., .. .. ........... 71 Michlgan Bar, .•.. Sacramento,. •..•. "
U
E.K. KANE,. ... . ....... . .. 72 Neva a,. ......... Nevada, • •• .•...•.
Trno,. .•...... . ..•• • •..••• 73 Drytown, ... . .... Amador,. .. . ...... "
WISCONSIN HILL,. ......... 74 Wisconsin Hill, .•. Placer, ........... "
MOUNTAIN FOBBST,. ••...•• 75 Eureka North,. .. . Sierra, .. ... . ... . . . "
53 BEAR MOUNTAIN,. •••••.••• 76 Angel's Camp,.. , . Calaveras, .••.•..• "
54 PETALUMA, .••••.•..•...•• 77 Petaluma, ...•••.• Sonoma,. ......... "
55 CALAVERAS, ....... , ...... 78 San Andreas, .•.•. Calaveras, . • .•• • .. "
56 HUMBOLDT,...•.....••.... • 79 Eureka, .••• .• •..• Humboldt,. ..••.. • July
57 foNE,. ................... 80 Ione, .. . ........ . . Amador, .... .. ... May
58 YOLO,. ................... 81 Yolo, ............ Yolo,....... . ... . .. "
MOUNTAIN, ............... 82 Don Pedro's Bar,. Tuolumne, ... •••. • "
59 RISING STAB, ............. 83 Forest Hill, ...••. Placer, ........... "
60 VESPER, .................. 84 Red Bluff, ........ Tehama, .......... "
t SAINT MARK'S, ... . ....... 85 Plymouth,. . .. •• •. Amador,. ...... , . "
'Ir SAINT Lours,.............. 86 Howland Flat, .•• Sierra,. •••... •••• . "
61 NAVAL, .......... . ... .. ... 87 Vallejo,. ......... Solano,. ........ .. "
62 QUITllllAN, ................ 88 North Bloomfield, Nevada, .. . ..... . . "
63 ROSE'S BAR,. . ........... .. 89 Smartsville.. . • • . Yuba,. ......•.••. . "
.. POLAR STAB, .............. 90 Poor Me.n's Creek,. Plumas,. .•••.•..• . "
64 NORTHSTAR,. ......... .. .. 91 Fort Jones, .. . ... Siskiyou, ........ . . "
65 ACACIA,. ............ , .... 92 Coloma,.......... El Dore.do,. • •••••• "
66 8AIN'r HELENA, , ......... 93 St. Helena,. ••• •.. Napa, ............ "

'

6
3

50 .. 6
50 5 3
5

5

l

. ..

~ ~

:i;i

~

8
3

9
l

2

..

I

1 ..

1::: :: :

18

2CI: :

74

s

84

i

6
2

6

7
8

2, ..

7 2 8
L •. J

6 8

so •• 9 10

5

6

8

so::
'6 "5 '"j; .., "ii ..
so
6 2 ....... .. . .

75 10 12
76 .. '
SO 1 4

... .•• ... .. . ••• 20
...
I...!.. I.. s 2 21

::1··6~:::1··63

1111
... , ..
.. • .... 1 96
2 ......
1... 67
1 a .. .. .

~

~

~

.....

f
75
66

... .. s212'"i"66
l ... 118

,

30 •. 6 3 3 6 1 1 1 . ..... .. ... 1. ;.
90 .. 6 7 7 7 2 1, ...
4 ... ...
60 .. 6 5 6 6 . .. 1 1
. •• •

so :: '6 . ·5 ... '"9. ·2 ..

~

~
u

l

l

~
~

L....J

?'>

co

.....
00

.......

~

.. _ 2

1

1 1 .. .

~

s:I
~

21::: :: ::::: ::: ··20
s.. . . . 6 8 l 262

'

98
27
72
10

5 ... . ..
1 1...

~~(~!:.~~ -~~.~~ ..~.~ ~ . .. , .... ·2 ...... 26

76

'61"81 '71"61"il::
so .. 6 ''i '"i "i ::: ::, ...

ao .. 6 2 2 1.... ..

51

5 0 5 6 2 2 2 ... .... .
50 2i 6 6 5
1 .. 1

·2::: " i "8:i
6 0 1 6 2 2 2 1 1 1 '·······

·ao :: ·6 .., .. , ..,, ..2 :: 1

60 .. 6 ......... 1... ..

so

11
......... ..... .1. ....

SI

.'.~ -~ ~~ ..~ .. ~ J::: ::

27
17

19
72
42
70
31

1 11

2
2 1

37
21
63

1: :: 6461

1

1 4

14

J
75 .. 6 .. . ...... ... '
1
1 '...
50 .. 6 . 1
1 .. ·... .. . , .. . , .. 1 1... . ..
50 5 6 .. .............. .
.
. '...
3 1...
liO .. 6 1 2
2 . • .l
9056 .............. 1
1...
60 5 3 1 1 2 ... .. 1 1 . .... 1 . .. .. .
50 .. 6 1 ...... 1... 1 2
2 .. .
1 l
60 10 6 J 1
1.. 2
16 8 9 9 3 .. 1
s 1

s, ...,.. ,..

"i ::l':i
1 ·2 '"i; :::

·40 ·6 ·3 ..2 .. i "i]"s:: "i

35 5
30 5 6 .... .. ...
40 l 6 3 3 l

~·

~
t:'-1
0

,.,

40

~-

s..
;s·

.. 3 2 1 13138

2

45
66
36
169
49
18

~

~

~
.,..

s:

ll 2

.• l

2 1

s 1
s 2

..

2
1

•• 4

.. 2

·is7
1 112

·;; ·7

~

t-:l

~

.....
.....

74

. .. ...

3 1 ...
l ...

-~ .. \.~

4 1 ......
6

.. ... 1. . .

2

•.•t'6

l
6

"i

8 6 l
4 ••. . .

8
l

3

2

.. ...
1 1 2

.. .r·

... ...

43

2 •.

... ... .. .. ...
... ... ... ... ..... ..... ... ll 2 ...
8
3

9
1

4
9
8
6
4

l

1

.... ,,......
......

2 .• •..

Ii

.l
7 2

1

I

6

1

...
'6"2"2'"i

50 5 3
60 6 6
63 512

30 •. 6
50 5 6

•

s~~"'-jal

oil 0 ":;! ::::=

~ ~::
al I! .. ;::; :; 0 al

1..11. "' .. I"8 . ~. ~l ~

! ! !11~ ~ ,u ,U iS ii ~ I :i
40
... ... l ... 1 .. . ... '2 Iil 1l 50
l

~ ~

50 3 6 7 6
30 1 6 lJ 10
30 .. 6 9 8
50 .. 6 6 5
30 ,., 6 4 4
30 .. 6

'l

50 l ti
50 5 9
50 •. 6

......
"
~ ~ ~ ;s

!;

I~/3 -.; 1.g !.

48 NATOHA.,... ..... . . ....... 64 Folsom,. ••••••.•. Sacramento,. ••.••• May 2, 1855.

OF

1' A Ill E 8

..:, A ;

List· of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.- Continued.

LODGES,

I

lz

i1

I fl
TOWN.

PLACE

OF

I
COUNTY.

LOCATION.

ORDERED.

CHART.ER WAS

\ DA.TE WHEN

\

~

. "';i

~.c

~

~

... ~

lt.. .

it r£ ~ .ria

0

i,"51:::

'il"'21" ·21:::

'2

2 143
1 4.1
24

1

55
49
82

1

..~r:~I: :r~~

2 •• .

29

75

l ...

...

...1 3812

2
l ...

3

... ... ... ....
... ... .. . ....
... .. . ... ....

1

l
I

1 183
1 ... 84.
1 118
a 2 72

'
1

f'

1

~

... 45
2 2

6l

... ... .. .

... ... ... ....

.. ..

..
..

·so

' .. ...

..

.....

.

...

...
..... .....
.. .....
..
... ... .....
......
....
..... ... ... ..
...
..
... .. .... ... ...
..
..
... ...

...
..

...

0'~1. i~: 1~~5· 1·sa1·51·61··i 1.. 1: ::1: :1· ·;1: '. ·1 :::1::1..ii:: :1:::, ..

o

1 1 1··1 s..
1·G1. ...
.. ·1··1
.. l 2l""l

2
2
1
117 ExOBLSIOR,......... • • • • • • • 166 San Francisco, . . . San Francisco, •••. Oct. 13, 1864.. , 601101121 6 6 6 8
1... . • l ...... · 77
u
"
" .
50 .. 4. 2: 2 2 2.. l
118 ALAHllDA, ••••••••••••.••• 167 Centreville, .••••. Alameda, .... .. . .
168
Redwood
City,
..•.
San
Mateo,
......
.
8 . . . •.
l 2 1 2168
119 SAN MATEO, ••••••••••••••
"
"
50 .. 6 4 '
60 112 41 88 S6 S • • ·8 2 l • . 8 9 ~ 120
120 MISSION, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169 San Francisco, .•. San Francisco, .•..
§ ESMERALDA., ••••••••••••• 170 Aurora, ..•.•..... N eve.da Territory,.
••I,..• .I• •• J••I" ••I•• .I• o•I• • • •
§ ESOURIAL, •••••••••••••••• 171 Virginia City,. • • .. Nevade. Territory,.
•••I••• I, I••• I, •• I•••!• •J• • ,f..... ~.••I••••
§ LANDER •.••••••• • ., ...... . 1'12 Auijtin, .... . ..... Nevada Territory,.
87
2
2
121 Eu: Gaov11, ..... . ....... . 173 Elk Grove, .•..•.. Sacramento, .•••••
U
H
ljO 5 9, ••
1 1 1.. •.. ll. .. •. 1 ...... . 16
122 DRYTOWN, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174 Drytown, .••.•... Amador, ........ . IC
12, ..
so .• 12 1 1 8 .. . 2 3 ........ ' 2 s... 37
128 ANTIOCH, .••••• • •••••••••• 175 Antioch,......... Contra Costa, .•••.
H
H
U
.. MERCED, . ....... . ........ . 176 Snelling, . . ........ Merced, ......... .
II AZTLAN, •••••• • ••••••••••• 177 Prescott, •. .. ..••. Arizona Territory, Oct. 11, 1866.1:: . :: :: ::: ::: ::: ::: :: ·::: ::: ::: :: ::: ::: ::: ::::
"
"
60 . . 6 8 9 10
S 8 . . . •. •
• . . 7 I 114
124 PH<ENIX,•••••••••••••••••• 178 San Bernardino, .• San Bernardino~ .• "
so .. 12 1 1 1 ... .. 1 l. .. .. ... 2 ... .. 6,
125 MENDOCINO, •••••••••••••• 179 Mendocino, •.•..•. Mendocino, •••••••
so 1 6 6 6 6 1 . . s Ii ' . • • • • . . l! . • • 103
126 ARCTURUS, .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180 Petaluma, ....... . Sonoma, ......... .
"
30 1 3 4 4 1 1 . . • .. 1 . • • .. 2 • • • 8 39
127 RUSSIAN RIVER, . . ........ . 181 Windsor, ......... Sonoma, . ...... . . .
128 MERIDIAN, •••••••••• • • • ••• 182 College City ...... Colusa, ......... .. Oct. 10, 1867. j 30 .. ti 8 2 2 1 . • • .• ... .. • • • 2 6. .• U
"
••
80 • . 6 . • . .. . .. . .. 1 . • . 1 . • • . • • • • 1 .. ' . 27
129 CLEAR LAKE, ••••••••••••• 183 Lower Lake, . . .. . Lake, .. . ........ . "
so 2 6 ' 8 3 l . . . . . . . . ... .. . . . 1 . ... 28
130 SIERRA VALLEY, ••••••• ••• 184 Sierra.ville,.. ..... Sierra, ........ . . .
"
50 .. 12 '
4 4 . . . • . 1 • .. •... • • • . . . . . • .. 36
131 CLAIBORNE, .••••••••••••• 185 Point Arena, ....• Mendocino, .••...•
60 . . 6 2 2 1 .. • . • • • . • .. .. . 1 ' .. • .1 3!
132 EVENING STAR,. • •••••••••• 186 Etna Mills, . . ...... Siskiyou, .. ..... , •.
133 KEITH, • • ••••••••••••••••• 1117 Gilroy, ........... Santa Cle.re., . ••... Oct. 15, 1868., SO 1 12 12 18 IS 1 . . . •• l ~ . . • • l . .. .. . 69
"
..
50 112 11 u 12 2 .·. 2 . 1 . . . • • 8 s 1 276
134 OAKLAND, •••••••••••••••• 188 Oakland, . . ....... Alameda, ....... . "
~ LATROBE,. ••••••• •• •• • •••• 189 Latrobe, ••....... El Dorado, .... . . ..
.2. i ... . . 1 s
•!
50
35 . . 6 2 1 1 . ..
135 NORTHERN LIGHT, ••••••••• 190 Mill ville, . . .. . . . .. Shasta, .......... .
1 2 ...
6
12
7
1 s 60
60
.•
6
"
136 MARIN, ••• •••••••••••••••• 191 San Rafael, ....... Marin, ........... .
1 1 1 75
50 .. 6 ... l! 2 ·7 ::
2 •••
137 8ANTA. BARBARA, .••••• , •• • 192 Santa Barbe.re., ... Santa Barbare., ••.
5 tl 6 1 2 1
1 l ... 70
138 FEBNDA.LB,. ••••••••••••••• 193 Ferndale, .•••.••. Humboldt, ... . ... . Oct. 14., 1869. 40 .. 6
40
.. s
30 6 6 3 1 I 1 .. .
139 MOUNTAIN VIEW, •••• • ••••• 194 Mountain View, .. Santa Clara, ..•... "
" " 80
...
1
6
.
...
...
1 ... 42
2
1
...
195
Winters,
•.•••.•••
Yolo,
.••.••
.
••.•.
l'° BUCKEYE,•••••••••••••••••
"
"
2 2 28
30 .. 6 l! 2 1 ...
1 ••. .
141 SAN SJMBON, .••••••••••••• 196 Cambria,•........ San Luis Obispo, •
"
.. p ARADISE, • ,. • , • , , ••• ., ,. • 197 Haywards, ...•.•. Alameda, ... . ... .
"
"
.i
"i4
"ii 62
"2
U!
10
l!
ll
.
.
6
Wilmington,
..••.
Los
Angeles,
.
.••..
198
14.2 WILMINGTON, • •• , •• •• ••• • •
" " so .. 6 8 10 9 s s 1 •.• ...
1 1 60
143 HARTLll:Y, • ••••••••••••••• 199 Lakeport, ....... . Lake, ........... .
.. I
1 1 74
60 5 6 2 2 2 . ..
144 TRucKEE, ................ . 200 Truckee, ......... Nevada, ......... .
56
2 I ... 2 '
60 . • 9 I
U5 S!LVEYVILLE,. • •••• •• •••• • 201 Dixon, .. .... .. ... Sole.no, ...••.••.•
"
333
9
6
16
u
15
8
l!3
5
50
..
7
...
14.6 PENT ALPHA ............ .. 202 Los Angeles, ..... Los Angeles, ..••• "
"
"
ff
.
21
2 .••
l
l ...
36 3 6 l
147 CONFIDENCE, ••••••••••••• 203 Castroville, ..•... Monterey, .••..••. "
"
1 2 •••
1 l! ... 87
<10 .. 6 1 2 l! . ..
l<l8 SALINAS, ••••• ••••••••• •••• 204 Salinas, .......... Monterey, .••• ••.. " "
"
<19
149 NEWVILLE, ., •••••••••••• , 205 Newville, ........ lllenn, ........... . Oct. U, 1870. 85 1 6 . . ...• l ........ ; ..........

···1· ·1··1···1···1···

1·sol· ii· sl· ·31· ·31· ·31° ·ii. ii.· :ii' ·21:::
.. .. ,·501::1i21··il .. il:::
'il::J"il::-:
'3<il "il'61:: :1:::

··2 "i "i ::: :: ::: ::: :::

'601i01i21 ·i71" ii,. 7, .. 21

11

~

2 .. . 2 67
1 ... 29
6 ..• 4 363

~

0

...:! "
)I
=
::i
0

31.;
.Ii
j ~I~ I
•

8" ""
"'" .,,
i .g ~~ ~~
~ .S ~ ~
3l
~ s ~ ~~ ~~
~ $ ~ ~ ,,.::i l ';j ~
,,::i

~ ~ .a .,; .,;

-: ..d ~

98 VA.CA.VILLE, •••• • ••••••••• 134 Ve.ca.ville, .• .. • ... Sole.no, .......... . May 13, 1859. , 30] 5161 51 61 7, 1 . .
99 VALLEY, •• •••••••• •••••• 135 Linden, •. ......... San Joaquin, ...•.. May 11, 1860. 80 . . 6 ............ .. 1 .... ..
100 PACIFIC, ••••••••••••••••• 136 San Francisco, .••• San Francisco, .•.. May 10, 1860. 75 5 9 16 16 12 51 1 4 I .. .
"
"
u
• OROFINO, •••••• • ••••••••• Ia7 Oro Fino, .•• . .... Siskiyou, .. ...... .
• VIOLET, •••••••••••••••••• 138 Spanish Flat, ..... El Dorado,...... ..
"
101 CROCKETT, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139 San Francisco, .•. San Francisco, ...•
i
·ff· ..1 1 ...
30 .. 6 , 6 7 1
102 CURTIS, •• ••• ••••••••••••• 140 Cloverdale, .••••• Sonoma, ......... . "
8053
.........
...
1 .•. 1 .••
103 GRAFTON' •••••••••••••••• 141 Grafton, ......... Yolo, ........ . .. ..
"
~ COLUSA,.·········· · ······ 142 Colusa, .......... Colusa, .......... .
May
16,
1861.1'50
.i
'i;
Courtland,
•..••..
Sacramento,
.....
.
143
104 FRANKLIN, •••••• ••••••••••
"
"
50 IO 12 9 9 8 . . . 1 5 3 ...
105 ORIENTAL, •••••••••••••••• 144 San Francisco, .•. San Francisco, ... . "
8 0 1 3 1 1 1 2 ..... 1 ...
106 VITRUVIUS, ••••••••••••••• 145 Bloomfield, ..••••. Sonoma, ••••.....
30 .. 6 5 5 5 1 .. 2 ......
107 ABELL,. • ••••••••••••••••• 146 Ukiah, •....•..... Mendocino, ..••...
17,"
4 0 5 6 1 0 8 6 1 .. 3 4 . ..
108 EEL RrVBB, ••••••••••••••• 147 Rohnerville, .••••. Humboldt, . ....••.
16, "
.... .. .•..•............•...•..
.. SAN Lme OBISPO, ••••••••• 148 San Luis Obispo, .. San Luis Obispo, ..
109 LASSEN' • • • • • • ••••••••••• 149 Susanville, ....... Lassen, .. . . •. , ... . May 15, 1862. 50 1 6 ll 2 1 · • · . · .. . 81 .. .
50562 · 2 2 . .. 2 1 1 .. .
110 MOLINO, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150 Tehama, ......... Tehama, . ....... . " " "
30 5 6 6 7 8 1 ..· 2 ...
111 PA.LMYBA., •••••••••••••••• 151 Placerville, ...... El Dore.do, ••.•••. " 16, "
15,
"
OSEPHUB, •••••••• •• •••••• 152 Brush Creek, ..... Butte, . .. ....... ..
u
"
153
Brandy
City,
...•.
Sierra,
..........
.
.• RISING SUN, •••••••••••••••
~ CARSON, .••••••••••• •••••• 154 Carson City,...•.. Nevada Territory, .
···'·····•···l•••\ ... 1···•··
1 3
MOUNT CARMEL, • •••••••••• 155 Red Dog,. ........ Neve.de.,. ........ .
112 WOODLAND,. •••••••••••••• 156 Woodland,........ Yolo, ........... . ~~Y ~~· ~~ ·
§ WASHOE, ••••••••••••••••• 157 Washoe City, ..... Nevada Territory,.
"
113 GIBSONVILLE, ••••••••••••• 158 Gibsonville, .....• Sierra, ......... .
• GILROY, •••••••••••••••••• 159 Gilroy,. .......... Santa Clara, ..... ,
"
114 PILOT HILL,. .. . • • • • • • • • • 160 Pilot Rill, .....•.. El Dorado, .. .... .
"
115 KEYSTONE, ••••••••••••••• 161 Milton, . .......... Calaveras, ...... ..
",;- 502j.l8 ...••.
§ VIRGINIA. CITY, ••••• ••• •••• 162 Virginie. City, .. •. Nevada Territory,. "
15,
§ SILVER CITY,•••••••••••••• 163 Silver City, .•..••• Neve.de. Territory,.
116 HARMONY, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 164 Sierra City, . ...... Sierra, .......... . Oct. 13, 1864. 75 .. 6 •••••••••
§ !SILVER STAB, . . . . . . . . . . . . . 165 Gold Hill, ...•.•.. Neve.de. Territory,. "
" "

OF

NA.MES

List of the Subordinate Lodges, ete.- Continued.

......
......

......
......
t..:>
01

~-

;;!

~

~
0

~

i

i

s.a.

~

.......

~

CD

00

....

......

~
<?ti

~

t

a.

t

"i

~c

~

....

~

~
....

"'""

c:.:>

LODGES,

~

~

f!
!"OWN.

PLACE

OF
COUNTY.

LOCATION.
ORDERED.

GIIABTER WAS

DATE WHEN

...-~

-

~

...

c2:E
~-cl

....

Cl>

.s:E ~1-~
§ :a

,.. -

i:o..

:i

•

~

•

-cl

ia

I I. .

· 1

~~
I= I ·:a= ~ 1....
~ ~

,. ,- .

~ '!i .g ...

·:.
s:l'7l

g,...

l"CI

ID

00 Po "'El l>l

6 .. ' .. .. 5 .. 3

·I "

2, ...

..

61
7
6 81 •• •

12, 1882. 60 : : .
~
i . 2 .....
Cl
IC
40 1 6 s 3 2 1 l 2 .;.
80 10 6 ... ... ... ... .. ...
11, 1883. 30 .. 6 ........ . 11 .. . .... ..
60 l 6 9 10 13 6 . . 1 IS
" " SO
.. 6 10 10 9 IS l 4 . 71 •••
"•

"

1 ... ...

30 .. 6 1 1 ....... .
2 2 3 ... ..
16, 1881. 301S

"

3 ...8 ...
11

~~· 1880.

'.[:::

"i::: :: "61... 1.. ·1··

~ :~ ~~~· ·~;·~~'ii :~i :~ ~ ..
" ..

"i

207 SNOW MOUNTAIN, .. ,, •• ,, 271 Stony Ford, ...... Colnsa.,. . ......... Oct. 16, 1884. 60 l 12 : : : : : : : : : : : : : :
"
"
50 .. 6 11 14 14 13 l
208 p ABADBNJ., .......... , ... ~72 Pasadena., ........ Los Angeles,...... "
.. " so .. 6 7 5 Ii 1 . .
273 Comptoi_i., .....•.. Loe .Angeles, .•••.•
209 ANCHOR, .•••••
..
80 .. 6 s 8 s s ..
210 ABBOYO, .............. .. 27' Arroyo 1.:tra.nde, . • l:la.n Lnis Obispo,..
..
3016 1 2 7 · 1 ..
211 OAKDALE, .............. . 275 Oakdale, ......... Sta.nislauP, ......
Westport,
........
Mendocino,....... "
• WEBTPOBT,,.,, ......... ,, 276

II ARIZONA,.............. .. 267 Phrenix, .... , .... .Arizona. Territory, "
196 PEN.RHYN,. ............ .. 258 Penryn,. ., ....... Placer,. .......... Oct.
197 EVERGREEN,. . ... ,, .... .. 259 Riverside,. ....... Riverside, .... ,... "
198 KING SOLOMON'S, •• , ••••• 260 San Francisco, ... San Francisco, . . . "
199 TusoA.N, ... . .......... .. 261 Willia.ms, ........ Colusa, . .......... "
200 Lo:MPOC, ......... ,. .... .. 262 Lompoc, ......... Santa Barbara, ... Oct.
II TuCSON, .............. .. 263 Tucson, ......... Arizona. Territory, "
201 BESPERIAN, ........... .. 26' Sa.nta. Maria, ...•. Santa Ha.rba.ra, •.. Oct.
202 ORLA.ND, .............. .. 266 Orland, .......... Glenn,........ .... "
"
203 NORTH EA.BT,. ••••••••••• 266 Fort Bidwell, .•.. Modoc,. ..... .. ...
204 GALT, ................. .. 267 Galt, ............. Sacramento,.••.•• Oct.
206 OUR&.NT, ............... . 268 Berkeley,....... Alameda.,......... "
206 OLIVE BRANCH,. .... , .. .. 269 Tula.re, . ......••. Tula.re,...... . .. . . "
t FAl,L RIVER,. ......... .. 270 Glenborn, ........ Sha.eta,... . .. .. .. • "

" .. '° ..

21"2

48
99

11 30
37

?

~

a.

~

~

~

~
~

L.....J

2
1

1

l

23

: ::
1 ...
B ...

32
26
91
98
.
2
1

1

30
42

2SI ...4. 140
37

.. ..
111 ...
1 .. .

l

~

.....
.....
t-o

~·

~

~
"2!"21::: 62 -;;
2 33

: : : : :: : :: 28
1 2 1 133
6 6 2 233
. 1 1 80
1 2 1 42

53
2... (7
11... 11 37

2...

2 .. .
1

60
97
133
10 I
s .. . 21
1 .. . 15
21.. . .. . 31

2 1 11
1 1 .. .

63

00

l;, 1~;6. ·:3 :ii~ ·i~ ·g ·i~ :ii ·1 ..~ :::i::r ~! ..2~i"il..~ 1~~

~

~

~

~

~·

t

~

32...

11 4.3
45

68
46
30
34
6 ...
3 1
. 1
1...

~
~

co

l

33

1...

n6

98
84.
26

3 ...
I ...

'I...

45

89
46
88
36

. 3. .•
l... ...
l 1...
2 l 1

2

~

~
~

21

.. ,....... .

161

87
l 171
3 .. : 190
2... 58
l

3

27
33
94

71
l 102
l \"'

3

2

64

l ... .. .

4

3

1

2 ...

2

.. ..
141 ..
1 2

~

~

..

f.. . .. .. .......... ..

61"31:::

l

1l
.

.

~

~
~

t.:>

}l.. ~ .. ~ ~~

..

..

91 61

179 GUADALUPE, ........ ,. .. . 237 Gna.da.lnpe,•. . ••... Santa Barbara,, •. Oct. 6, 1874.. 60 .. 6 ......
* TYRE, .................. . 288 Gold Rnn,. ...... . Placer,. .......... Oct. 14., 1876. .. . .. .. .. : . ; •
"
• PEBCADERO , .... , .. , , , , , .. 239 Pescadero,....... San Mateo,........
180 COLUSA, ... : .......... .. 24.0 Colusa, •... ., .... Colnsa.,... . • • • .. • • "
181 :-!ANTA .ANA.,., ..... ,.,.,, 241 Santa Ana, ....... Orange,........... Oct.
..
..
50 .. 6 . .. • • • • ••
. • 8 ••••.•
182 M:A.GNOLIA, ........... ,,, 24.2 Santa Barbara., .. Santa Barbara, . . . "
"
"
80 5 6 1 1 1 . • • . • s ...
183 EucA.LYPTUB, • ••••••••••• 243 Ha.ywa.rds, ....••. Alameda,......... " 11,18'7.
·60 .. 12 6 6 6 ..... 1 4,, .. ,
184 ALOATR&.Z, ............ .. 244. West Oakland, •.• Alameda., •••..•.•• Oct.
.. .. so . . 6 ' ' 3 1 1 1 ..•
"
185 LAUREL, ............... . 245 Willows, ......... Glenn,............
"
"
so . . 6 8 9 10 16 . . 2 8\ ...
Pomona,
.•
.••..
, . Los .Angeles, . • • • • "
186 POMONA, ............... . 246
187 FBBSNO,. .............. .. 247 Fresno, ......... . Fresno, .......... Oct. 10, 1878. 4,() .. 6 .11 10 9 12 . 6 ~ , 7 ...
"
"
''6 I 12 .. • .. . .. • 1 .. 2 7 . ..
188 ALTUBA.B, ............... . 248 Alturas, ......... Modoc,...... ..... "
12 ... ... ... 1 .... . ..... ..
189 GRKENVILLE, " •••••••••• 249 Greenville, . • • • . Plumes, . . • • • . . . . • "
"
8
0 1 6 .............. l I
A.din,
.....
..
.....
Modoc,....
.
..
250
..
..
"
190 ADIN,. .................. .
* BROTHERHOOD, • , , , • , , ••• 251 Duncan's Mills, ... Sonoma.,.. . .. . .... "
"
191 BoDIE, ... , •• , ... ,,,, ... .. 252 Bodie,.. . ........ , Mono, ........... . Oct. 16, 1879. '60 :: 'ti
"2
..
"
3 0 1 6 ......... 1 .. ... 2 ... . .
Madison,
........
Yolo,.............
"
192 LANDIURK, ............ .. 253
S0 .. 9 1 1 1 1 1 2 . .. ... ..
193 RR&.DING, ............... . 254, Redding, ......... Shasta,... ..... ... "
so .. 6 1 1 2 2 1 .. . 6 .. .
194 WELCOME, ............. .. 255 Lemoore, ........ Tula.re, ...... .... .
30 .. 6 S 6 { 2 1 2 .. ... .
195 LODI, .................. .. 256 Lodi,., .......... San Joaquin,..... "

150 STANISLAUS, .. , .. ,, .. ,,, • 206
151 ANAHEIM, .... ...... .... • 207
152 RIO VISTA, .. ..... ..... . 208
153 KING DAVID'S, .......... • 209
154 FRIENDSHIP, ....... . " • " 210
155 SAN BENITO, .... . ....... . 211
156 So. BAN FRANOISOO, •••••• 212
t BODEGA, ............... .. 213
157 SAN BUKNAVENTURA,. ... . 214
158 OAK GROVE, ........... .. 215
159 Dome, ................. . 216
160 MONTEREY, •• , ... , ...... , 217
161 MOSAIC,. .............. .. 218

.

l'il

~

·1l ~=; :ii~
'i

.. .l!i

~
;~ ~= ~ ....
~

~~A

~.g ~
-2"6 .e~ ~

o<D s::IQ

Mfldesto, ......• · 1Stanislaus, ......•. Oct U, 1870. 30 5 6 . . . . . . 3 11..
~I:::
30 .. 6 1 3 3 3 ••
.Ana.helm, . ....... Orange, ..... • .. .. "
" "
2
30 112 6 6 5 ...
Rio Vista,. .... ... Sola.no, ......... ..
50
..
6
Ban Luis Obispo,. San Luis Obispo,. .
2
3
4
11
..
1
1
" 1871.
6
3
2
San Jose, ........ Santa Clara,. ..... Oct. U,
50 . .
6
1 2 .. .
50 1 6 3 3 4 31..
Hollister, ..•••.•. San Benito, ....••. " " "
1 .... .
50 .. 12 6 6 6 1 ..
San Francisco, ... San Francisco, . ••.
Bodega,...... . ... Sonoma, ......... .
50 . . 6 9 8 10 5 . .
1 ..... .
Ventura,........ Ventura, ........ .
50 2 6 l l 10 9 12 . . . . . s .. .
Alameda., ..•••• • . Alameda., .. .. .. .•.
50 25 12 12 11 13 . . . l
s . . . 1, ..
Ban Francisco, ... San Francisco, •..
40 l 6 7 7 7 3 ..
Mont<:irey, •.... . . . Monterey, .•••.•..
1 1 .. .
Livermore,. ...••. Alameda,.......•• Oct. 11, 1872. 50 . . 12 5 5 5 3 l
1 6 .. .
75
10
12
5
5
7
.
.
.
.
.
219
4, •••
Ban
Francisco,
..
:
San
Francisco,. •.. " "
162 SPERANZA ITALIANA, •••• •
" 30 .. 6 1 1 1 3 .. s2 ....
..
163 DOWNEY, .... .. ........ .. 220 Downey,. ........ Los .Angeles, .... .
50 l 6 ... ... l ... 1 ... .. .. ..
164. INYO, .... . ............. . 221 Independence, ... Inyo,. ........... .
"
502t6
1
......
222
1
..
1
....
Rocklin, . ........ Placer,. ... . ..... .
165 GRANITE,. ...... , , , .. , , , ,
..
* MAUI, . . ................ . 223 Wa.ilukn, . .. ••.•• . Hawaiian Islands,. Oct. 18, 1878.
..
50 512 4, 4 7 8
166 BAKERSFIELD,.,,,,,,,,, , , 224. Bakersfield, . ..... Kern, ..... ... .... . .. ..
50 . . 6 6 6 6 4 ..
167 BROOKLYN, ............ .. 225 East Oakland,.... .Alameda, •.•.•.•..
"
50 5 6 .............. .... ...... ..
168 EIAYWARD, . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 226 Half Moon Bay, .. San Mateo, .••.•. .
50 .. 6 . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
169 CONTRA COSTA, •••• • ••••• 227 Somereville, .. . .•. Contra Costa, .... . "
30 .. 6 1 1 1 ... ..
1 5
170 .ATHENS, ................ . 228 Da.vieville, ....... Yolo, .... . ....... .
50 5 3 3 2 2 1 1
3 ..... .
171 SOLANO, ................ . 229 Vallejo, .......... Sola.no,....... .. . .
172 NORTH BU'M'E, .......... . 230 Gridley, .......... Butte,...... ... .
"
"
" 1 50 . 6 1 1 1 . . . 1 1 ..... .
.. 6 I 1 1 l 2 1 ..... .
173 COVELO,. ............... , 231 Cove lo, . ......... Mendocino,. ..... . Oct. 6, 18U.
..
"
••
30 1 6 1 • • . l 1 2
l ...... I l
174, J &.NESVILLE, .... , ...... , , 232 Janesville, ....... LaBBen, .... .... .. .
52 1 6 1 1 1 l 1 1 s.
175 CALISTOGA,. • • , , , • , , , • , 233 Calistoga., ........ Na.pa, ......... .. "
so . . 6 7 6 5 ..•• • 2 ......
176 HOPE,, ...... ..... ..... •• 234. Beckwith, ........ Plumas, ...••••••.
177 SURPRISE VALLBY, .. ... . . 235 Cedarville, ...... . Modoc, .......... .
17~ HILL'S FERRY, ........ .. 236 Newman, .•• , .•• . Stanislaus, ....... .
" ~g .~ ~ "i "i "i "2 .: l"il"i''"

OF

NAMES

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

Io

:z;

Ii
I9 I
TOWN.

PLAOE
0 I"

I
COUNTY.

LOOATION,

..
.. ..

,.

OHABTER WAS
ORDERED,

.... .. ..

.. .... ..
.. ..

.. .. .

~

·~
g:;

"'

~

g~ P§

· ~m bod

~

•

~

244 DELANO, ... . . . .... . ..
245 SISSON,... ..... . . .. . ..
246 HUENEME, ...........
01 247 Los BANOS, .. . . ......
~ 248 T111UOHAPI, .. • • • • • • • .
249 TEHEBOAL, •.. • • • . • • ..
250 NORWALK, •.. . ••..•••.

..

,.

..

..

oi

.. =

..

'

s

2

1
5
4
2
2
2
1
7
3

6
7

a~

1
2

5

::4

4
1 6
2
5 "2

1

l
1

..

..
..

.. . ... ..
2 ··4

1

I

1 .. .
.. 2

.. s

..

i:l

~ ~

<llE>OOEl ..

2
l
1 10 11
1
1 1 2
I 2

fl::

2

2
2
1

2
2

1
6

2

... ...

... ..

.. ...
... .. ... ..
... ... ..

... ...
... ... ... .. ...
... ... .

:i;j

...
..

1

1

2

...

~
.!"""

llsO 1179 ii92 547 138 380 '18 - ; 4 342 409 157 i82o8

c.c

~

......
......

~·

'5;

~
~

~

f

~

~

a.

~

21
26
27
80
30
29
32

;;:,..

~
....

w

a:.

co

00

........

·~

141

113

22

52
22
28
83
29
17
23
33
31
19

41

~

t

~
a.

~

83
64

~

~

~

~
.,..,

....~

tO
00

........
'"""'

25
17
16
72
60
64
19
19
46
85
18
26
44
91
63
29
61
26

'3

30

24

30
23
47

'8

64

.. . 300
58

. :ii""

1
2
1
2
1
7
2
1 3
2 1 ...
10 6 . •. 3 ... ...
1 .. . ... 2 . • .
1 ..•
1 2 ... ... 2 ... .. ... 1 ...
5 4 .. .
1 1
4 11 1 3 3 .. . .. 1 ...
2 9 .. . 2 .. .
1 .. .
"J ...
1 1 ..... 1 • .. .
4 5 .. .
4 .• . .. ...
1 . •.
1 1 1 3 ... ...
1 . ..
6 2 ... 1 .• .
. 1
2 • .. 2 . . .
4 .•.
· s 1 • . . 1 . •.
1 ...

2

... . ....

2
6
2
2

2

2

...

3

1
1
8 10
7 1
2 1

2
2

2
2

u

2

"2 l

1
8

4

2
2

1

82 31

g:;

~

"' -o llM .... ===

i - ...a:t

s

3
31

' s '

30 .. 6
2
50 .. 6 s'
35 .. 6
3
55 . • 6
4
30 .. 9
1
1
30 .. 12
30 1 6
7
30 1 12 . ...
30 5 12
2
&O .. 6
2
30 5 12 . . • •
45 .. 12
2
30 .. 6 ....
50 .. 6
2
30 .. 6
6
50 .• 9
2
so 1 12 1
30 .. 6
1
30 .. 6
7
50 . . 6
7
30 .• 6 .. ..
.;o .. 6 2
30 .. 6
5
.;o .• 6 s
:10 .. 6
t
50 .. 9
2
35 .. 6
2
1
30 .• 12
30 .. 6
5
:;o .. 6
50 .. 6
2

""

" i:: ~ ...."

0

0

>cl
i.. .. 1J.,; .,;
.s ... =
.. ~ ~ ,flf ~~ ::;g,;.," 'i.. >cl i ~ ::a:i

. .. -" il ..

..s:i ~

II==
.. 'ti

243 MoNRovu,.. . • • . . • . • • 308 Monrovia, .... .. . . . Los Angeles, •• , • • . Oct. 14, 1891. :30 • . 6
10 ,.. 9 I . . . . . .
. . . • . . . . •. •
309 Delano, .. . ..... .. Kern , ..... .. ..... . Oct. 12, 1892. 30 .. 6
4
3
3 . .. . . . 2 1 . .. . . . .. 1 .. •
310 l:lissoo,. • .• , ••••.. Siskiyou, .. . ... . .. "
" " :50 .. 6 4 6 5 1 .. J 2 .. . . .. .. 1 .. .
311 llneneme, ...... Venture, . .. ..... .
30 .. 12 .• 13 12 11 l... .. . 1 . .. . . . .. 1 2
u
"
312 Los Banos, . ..... . Merced,. ... . .... .
50 . . 6
4
4
4 1 l •.. 1 ... .
1 1 ...
313 Tehachapi,. • •••• . Kern, . . .... .. . , •••
4
s 2 . .. . . • .. . .. • .. • • . . .. 2 1
35 l 12
3U South Riverside,. . ttivers'ide, . .. . • .• Oct. 11, 1893, 60 . . 6
2
2 . . • . 1 ••. 1 . . . . . . . . . . 1 2
U
U
315 Norwalk, .. . ..... . Los Angeles, .... .. II
30 .. 6
5
6
3 6 • .. 1. . . . . . 1 1 . , . 2
251 SANGER,., •...•••••••. 316 Sanger, .•••• .,... Fresno, .••••• ••• .
30 .. 12
3
s 3 . . • . . . 5 2 . •. . . . . • . . • . . .
252 F ALLBBOOK,... .... • .. 317 Fallbrook, ....... San Diego, .. ... .. .
3
3
3 1 . • . 2 • .. . • . .. . .. . • . .. .
30 .. 6
253 EMMANUEL,... . . . ..... 318 Biggs,..... . ...... Butte, •. •••••.•• •
30 10 12 . • ..
1
2 2 . .. . . .. . . . . .. . .. . 1. . .
" 50
254 HOLLENBKOK, .... . .... 319 Los Angeles, ..... Los Angeles, .... . Oct. 11, 1894,
.. 6 18 19 19 7 .. . 1 I . .. ..
2 3
,,
"
255 SOUTH GATE, .. . . , •••• 320 f,os Angeles, ••••. Los Angeles,•• .• ,
60 . • 6 23 24 2, 21 . . • 3 3 • . . • . . . . 2 1
256 ALIBAL,. .. .... .. ... . . 321 Pleasanton, ••••• . Alameda, ..•• . .•••
35 . . 12
4
4
4 2 •• • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • ••• . . .
257 ALHAMBRA,.... . .. ... . 322 Alhambra, ........ Los Angeles, . .. ..
50 . . 6 . • . • . • . . . . • . 3 . . . 2 • . • . . . . . . . • • • . . • .
258 WHITTIER, •• • • • • • • • • • 323 Whittier' ••••••••. Los Angeles, •..• . Oct. 11, 1895. so . . 6
6
5
2 3 . •• 1 . . . • . . • . • • . 3 . • .
259 OoRONA.. . ........... 324 Pasadena, . ... ... , Los Angeles, ... , • "
50 .. 6
7
3
2 ' . .. 1 . . . . . . . . 1 "' 1
ll60 CONSUELO. . ... .. .. . .. 325 Escondido, .••••.• San Diego •••.••••
40 3 61
2
2
2 7 .. . 2 .. . . .. .. . . . 1 . ..
261 NBEDLES ... . .... .. ... U.D. Needles . •••• •.•.. San Bernardino... ,
'
4
4 s . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . .. . . . .
60 1 12
262 LONG BEAOB ......... U.D. Long Beach .. .... Los Angeles .... . .
30 . • 6
5
4
4 3 • .. . • • • • . . . • .. . • . 1 • . •

O •

212 8EL)(At o o o • o • • o o o o
277 Selma, ........... Fresno,... .. .... .. Oc t. 16, 1885.
"
213 SOlTTH' N 0ALIPOBNIA,. 278 l,os Aogeles, .... . Los Angeles,. • ; • • "
214 HANPOBD, .......... .. 279 Hanford, •. . .••.•. Kings, .. . ...... .. . "
"
Madera,
.
.
.....
..
Madera,,
.
..
.....
.
"
"
215 MADKBA,. . .. ......... 280
216 MOUNT SHASTA, . .• • , • 281 Anderson, . •. • .•. Shasta,. ... .. ..... Oct. 14, 1836.
217 0ALLAYOllll, . ... .. ,, .. 282 Middletown, • , ••. Lake, .. .. .. .. .. , •• Oci. 13, 1887,
IC
•I
218 SOUTH WEST, •• • • .• •• 283 National 01ty, •• . . ::!an Diego, . .... .. H
u
"
219 Trn1AN, ... .. . .. .. ... 281 Dunnigan, •. . • • ,. Yolo, .. ... . . ..... . cc
cc
"
220 BAN M!GUll:L, •••..•••. 285 San Miguel, • • .• .• Han Lois Obispo, • cc
,,
221 PASO RoBLBS, .. . . .. ... 286 Paso Robles,. ... .. Sao Lois Obispo, •. "
U
IC
222 W1NNEDUMAH, .• • •• • •. 287 Bishop ,. .•••• , • , Inyo,. ...... . . .. .. '4
223 MAXWELL, ......... .. 283 .Maxwell, •• .. , . ... Colusa, .. . , •. ••• • Oci. 11, 1888,
"
u
224 ELSINORE, .. , , ... . ... 289 Elsinore, . .••• .. •. Riverside, •.•• • •• • u
225 SUNSET,. . . ..... . ... . . 290 East Los Angeles, Los Angeles, ••• •• "
u
"
U
U
226 SANTA PAULA, ... .. . . . 291 Santa Pllula, ••••• Ventura, •.. • •• •• . Cl
,,
227 Los GATos, . ..••.•• • .• 292 Los Gatos, .. • ... Santa Olara, .•••. . Cf "
228 0BANGB GBOVB,. , • • . , 293 Orange, . .. . . ... Orange, .. . ....... Oct. 10, 18S9.
229 TBAVEB, . ............ 294 Traver, ....... . .. Tulare,•..••••••••• "
u
"
Cl
"
2JO :MOUNT JACKSON ••• ,,. 295 Guernevi\le .• • .•. S onoma ... .. .... . u
\<
231 SILVllB GA.TB . ••..••• 296 Sao Diego ....... . San Diego .. . .....
232 DuNSllUJB,. ...... .. . . . 297 Dunsmuir . •.... .. S iskiyou .. . .. .. . . . "
"
233 MOKRLU){NE HILL,• . .• 298 M:okelnmne Bill,. Calaveras, .. .. .... Oct. 16, 1890.
k
U
23, LIBERTY, . •• . • • . , ••. •. 299 Sllnta Oiara, ••• • . Santa Olara,. . . •• • IC
235 RKDX.ANDB, ... . .. .. . .. 300 Redlands, .•• • • •• . San B ernardino• .•
"
236 ONTARIO,. ••.•....••.. 301 Ontario, . . .... . .. Sao Bernardino, •• "
237 SANTA LUOIA, • .• •• .•. 302 Kings City, . ••.• • Monterey, •. • •••••
"u "
238 PonT&RVILLlll, . . • ••••. 303 Porterville, .. . .. , Tulare, •. •••••.•• • "
239 RKBDLBY, .. . . . . . . ... . . 304 Reedley,... . . . ... Fresno, . •• .• ••• • •• Oci. 14, 1891.
240 AZUSA,. .............. 305 Azusa, ............ I.os Angeles, •• . •• • "
"
241 ASHLA.II, .• , .... .. . . .. 306 Colton,.. .... . ... . San Bernardino, ..
" "
242 S4NTA MONICA,,, . ,, . • 3117 Santa Monica,. ••. Los Angeles, .... .
"

OP LODGES,

N AH ES

DATii WDBN

..

List of tl1e Sub<Yrdinate Lodges1 etc.-Oontinued.

Recapitulation.

1130

Alphabetical List of Lodges~

1131

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES. ·

RECAPIT ULATION .
17,f.31

Membel'llhip Slst July, 1895, ................... ............... •
G.A.JllllD-By Degrees, • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • . • • . • • . • • • • • • • . • • . . .. 1,192
" Affiliation,.. • • • • .. • • •• • .. .. .. .. • .. • .. • • • .. . . . • 547
"
"

Restorations,.. • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • .. • .. • • • • • • 188
Dispenations ................... ............. . 47
1,924

LoST-BY Withdrawals,.. ...................... ............ 380
"

Snspeneions, ................... ........... . ...... 421

" Expulsions,. • • .. .. • • . • . .. • .................... ..
"

'

Death, .................... .......... • ........ • .. • 342
Net Gain,. .................... . 777

Membership 31st Jnly, 1896, .................... .............. .

1,147
777
18,208

Oounty.
Poet Offi~.
No.
Lodge.
Abell .................... ... 146 Ukiah .................... Mendocino.
Acacia •..• ·•.•.•.•.•••.••••. 92 Coloma .....•..•.........• El Dorado.
Adin ................... ... 250 Adln . . .................... Modoc.
Ala.mo •..••..•.•.•.••..•• •• 122 Walnnt Creek .. . ......... Conta Oosta.
Alameda.................... 167 · Centerville .. . ............ Alameda.
Alcatraz•••...••.•••..•.••• 244 West Oakland ............ Ala.med a •.
Alhambra ••••.....••.. ... .. 322 Alhambra ....•........•.• Los Angeles.
Alisa). ........... ....... .. . 321 Pleasanton .••. .•.•..•••. Alameda.
Alturas....... . ........... . . 24R Alturas . •.•...•.......... Modoc.
Amador............ .. ...... 65 Jaokson .•.•....•••....••. Amador.
Anaheim ..•. •. .•... . ....•.. 207 Anaheim ............... Orange.
Anchor •.••.••...••. . . .. ••.• 273 Compton •..•.•.••..••.•• Los Angeles.
Antioch .................... 175 Antioch •....•••.•••...•.. Contra Costa.
Arcata .................... . 106 · Arcata . ................. Humboldt
Arctoras •....•.•• .••. .••••. 1130 Petaluma . • . . . . •. ....... Sonoma,
Arroyo •...••..•.•..••.•.• . 274 Arroyo Grande •...• . ••..• Ran Luis Obispo.
Ashlar................... .. 306 Colton ......•••...•. , .•.. San Bernardino.
Athens ....... . ••...•.. ...••. 228 Davisville . •....•••..•.... Yolo.
Aza1a •.•.••• •. ..•••. . ..... 305 Aznsa .................... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ............ . .... 224 Bakersfield •• • . .••..•••.• Kern.
Bear Monntain.......... .... 76 Angels Camp. , •.•.•••..•• Calaveras.
Benicia... . • • • • • . . . . • . • . • . • . 5 Benicia ..••.......•...••• Solano.
Bodie••..•...•...•. ... •..••• 252 Bodie .••.••••••..•....•• . Mono.
Brooklyn ................... 225 East Oakland•.••••.....• Alameda.
Buckeye ••..• ,........ . . . • 195 Winters ................. Yolo.
California... , . • • . • • • • • • . . • • 1 San Francisco . ....•••.•..• San Francisco.
Calaveras.. . • . . • . • • .. • • • . • 78 Sa.n Andreas ... ... ........ Calaveras.
Callayomi.••••..•••••.....• 282 Middletown .•••.......... Lake.
Oalistoga.. . • • • . . • • • . . • • . . . . 233 Calistoga.. . . . . • . • • • • . . . . • Napa.
Campo Seco•..•••.•.•.•.•.• 100 Campo Seco•... .. ...•••.. Oalaveras.
Chico .................... ... 111 Chico............. ...... Butte.
Claiborne ••• •• .•• •• •...•..• 185 Point Arena . . . .. .• .. .• • . Mendocino.
Clay.................... .... IOI Dutch Flat •......•. . ..... Pia.car.
Clear Lake ................. 183 Lower Lake •... . . . ....••. Lake.
Olin ton •.•... ..• ••.••. . .•... 119 Igo.•..••.............. ... Shasta.
Concord ..•••••.•••.•.•.... 117 Sacramento ••••.. • •. ••.•• Sacramento.
Confidence ................. 203 Castroville ............... Monterey.
Consuelo ................... 325 Escondido................ San Diego.
Contra Costa .••••..•..••••• 227 Somersville............... Contra Costa.
Colnsa ...... ............... 240 Coins& ...•••••••••.••.••• Colnsa.
Corinthian ................ :. 9 Marysville................ Yuba.
Corona... • • • .. • • . .. • . . • • • . . 324 Pasadena • • • • . .. • • . • . • • .. Loe Angeles.
Cove lo ................ .. ... 231 Covelo................... Mendocino.
Crescent.......... ......... 45 Crescent City ............. Del Norte.
Crockett........... ..... . • . . 139 San Francisco............ San Francisco.
Curtis.. • • .. . • .. • • . . • • . • • • .. 140 Oloverdale . .•••..••..•••• Sonoma.

1132
Lodge.

.Alpluibetical Liat of L<xl{/es.

Alphabetioal I.Mt of Lodges.
No.

Ponomoe.

Oounty.

Delano, ..... . ... , .•. • ••••• 809 Delano ... . .... .. ........ Kern.
Dorio••••••••. . •••••••••••• , 216 San Francisco••• ••••••••• San Francisco.
Downey................... 220 Downey •. •• •••••••• . •••• Loa Angeles, .
Drytown .... . ... , ....... . ,. 174. Drylown .. .. ...... . ...... Amador.
Dunsmuir., . . , ., ••..•..•.••• 297 Dnnamnlr•.• , •• ••••.• . .•. . Siskiyou.
Dnrant .............. . ...... 268 Berkeley•..•• . .•••••••• • . Alameda.
Eden....... . ... , ........... 113 Ban Leandro ............. Alameda.
Eel River ... . .. . . . .. .. ... . . 147 Rohnerville .••.••••••.•.• Humboldt.
El Dorado.. . .... . • .. • . .. .. • 26 Placerville •. . • •• • • • • • • . . • El Dorado.
Elk Grove . •• •• ••••• • ••••• •• 178 Elk Grove ... .......... . .. Sacramento.
Elsinore... .. ............... 289 Elsinore ................. Riverside.
Emmanuel .. . , ,, •••• • •••• . . 318 Biggs .. . • • • • .. . . • • • • . . . • • Butte.
Enterpriae... • • . • . • • • •• . • . . • 70 Yuba City...... ., •. . ..•• Sutter.
Eucalyptus .. , . , • .. • • • • . •. • • 243 Haywards. •. •• . •• •• ••.. •• Alameda.
Enreka. . . . ..... . ........... 16 Anbnrn ..•••.. • ••.•• • ••• • Placer.
Evening Star. •• • • • . .. • • .. .. 186 Etna Milla.. . • • . • . • • • • . • • . Siaklyon.
Evergreen.. . • • .. • • • • •• • • • • • 259 Riverside•.•••• ••.•.•• . ••. Riverside.
Excelsior . . ... ... , .. , • .. • . • 166 San Francisco. . . . • • • • • • • . San Francisco.
Fallbrook. ... •• . • • • . .. . • •• 317 Fallbrook .•••..•••... ."•.• San Diego.
Ferndale ..... .. .......... . . 193 Ferndale ................. Hnmboldt.
Fidelity ........ . ........... 120 San Francisco•.•••••••..• San Francisco.
Forbeatown.... . ........... 60 Forbestown .••• . ••••.•.•• Bntte.
Forest......... . ............ 66 Allegheny....... . . .. .... Sierra.
Franklin........ .. .. . ... . .. . 143 Conrtland ........ . ... . ... Sacramento.
Fresno ..•••.••.•••• . •.• . ••• 247 Fresno•. : . .. ....... . ..... Fresno.
Friendship ••. •... • .•• •••• .•• 210 San J oae.. . . . • . • • • • • • . • • • Santa Clara.
Galt... . ...... . ......... . ... 267 Gail .... . ...... . ... .. ..... Sacramento.
Georgetown.. . . • • • • • •• • • • • • 26 Georgetown•.•.•••• •.•..• El Dorado.
George Washington.... . .. . 62 Chinese Camp•..••• • ••••• Tnolnmne.
Gibsonville•. : • • . . • • • •. • • • • • 168 Gibsonville......... . ..... Sierra.
Golden Gate.. . . • .. • .. • • . . • 30 San Francisco.. • . • • . • . • • . San Francisco.
Gold Hill • • • • • • • • •• • • • •• • . • 32 Lincoln.. . .......... . . .. . . Placer.
Grafton . • • • • •• • • . • . . . • • • • . • 141 Grafton .•••. .. •••• •. .• •.• Yolo.
Granite... • • . • . • • . • • • . • • . • • 222 Rookiin ... . . . ............ Placer.
Gravel Range.............. . 69 Camptonville •.• •• .•• •. . .. Ynba.
Greenville.. . . . . . • . . • • • • . . . • 249 Greenville.•.•• .. ••••••••.• Plumas.
Gnadalnpe... .. .... .. . ...... 287 Gnadalnpe,. . . . ... .. . .. . . Santa Barbara.
Hanford••• •••• •• •••• •. , • • • • 279 Hanford.. • ............. . Kings.
Harmony.......... ... . . .. . . 164 Sierra City. •• . • • • • •. • • • • • Sierra.
Hartley •• . • . • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • 199 Lakeport ••.•..•• ••.••••• Lake.
Hawaiian ••• •• .• •• •• •••••.. • 21 Bonolnln •• •.. • ••. •.• ••• • Hawaiian Islands.
Hayward •• , •••••••••••..•• 226 Half Moon Bay •••••••.•• San Mateo.
Henry Clay • • • • • •• • • • • . • • • • 95 Sntter Creek • •••.•••• •••• Amador.
Hermann.. . • . • • • .. • . • • • . • • • 127 San Francisco. . .• • • • ••• • • San Francisco.
Heaperian•. •. •• . ••••.••.••• 264 Santa Maria•. •.•••••...•. Santa Barbara.
Hilla Ferry. .. • •• • • • • • . • • • • • 286 Newman .... .. ......... . . Stanislaus.
Hiram••.•• .. ••••••••••••••• 4.3 El Dora.do.... . ...... .. .. . El Dorado.
Hollenbeot ••.•••••••••••••. 319 Loa Angeles.. . . • • • •. . . . . . Loe Angeles.
Hope ..... . ... . ..... . ... .. 234 Beckwith .•••.•• ••.•••••. Plnmaa.
Hornltos. .................. 98 Bornitoe. ••••••••.•.•.•••• Mariposa.
Howard ....... .. ....... . .. . 96 Yreka .......... . ........ Siskiyou.
Hueneme . ........ . ••••••• 311 Hueneme ••.••...•.•.... . . Ventura.
Hnmboldt. . ... •• • • .. • • • • • •• 79 Enreka •••••••••••••••••• Hnmboldt.
lllinoistown.. • • • • • • .. • • .. .. 61 Colfax.................... Placer.

1133

No.
Lodge.
Oounq.
Poat Oftloo.
Inyo ..... . ..... . ............ 221 Indepeadenoe . .••.••.•..• Inyo.
Ione ...... . ................. 80 Ione ... ................... Amador,
Ionic •.•••••.••••••• • .•••••• 121 Iowa Hill .. •.. • .••••.•••• Placer.
Jelferson............. . .. . .. 97 Laporte •. .•• •. •... •. ••••• Plumas.
Janesville . . ........ . ... . ... 23~ Janesville .. . . .... . ... .. .. Lasaen.
Keith ............. . ......... 187 Gilroy........ . ........ . .. Santa Olara.
Keyatone. . .......... . .... . . 161 Milton . ... . .. . ... . ....... Oalaveraa.
King David's . .. ......... . .. 209 San Luis Obispo•... . . .• •• Sa.n Lnle ObispD.
King Solomon's... •• • • . . . • • • 260 San Francisco.. .• •. .• •..• San Francisco,
La Fayette ..... .. ... . ...... 126 Sebastopol •. . . . . ...••.•• • Sonoma.
La Grange.. .. .......... . • • . 99 Merced ... . . ... .. . ... . .... Merced.
Landmark . .. • • • • • • . • • • • • • • 253 Madison ••• ••. . .. •. .•. .. • Yolo.
La.saen ... . .. . ...... . . . . . ... 149 Bnsanville... . ...... . ..... Lassen.
Lanrel ... . . . . .. ........... . . 246 Willows•.•••• . . . ••• . . ••.• Glenn.
Lexington.. • • • . • • . • • • • • . • • • 104 El Monte•.•. ... .... •• .••• Los Angeles.
Liberty •. . . • . . • • . • • • • .. • • • 299 Santa Clara. •• . • • . . • • • . • . . Santa Clara.
Live Oak •.. •.•••••• . •.• . .•• 61 Oakland.. . . . .. . ..... .. ... Alameda.
Lodi •. •••••.• •••........ • •. 256 Lodi. ..... .... . . . . ...... San Joaqniu.
Lompoc . .... .. .... .. .... . : 262 Lompoc ••.•. • . .•• .....• •. Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ..••.••••••• .• •• 327 Long Beach .•••.•... •.••• Los Angeles.
Los Angeles.. . • . .. • • • • • • • • • 42 Los Angeles... . . • . • . • . • . • Los Angeles.
Loa Banos.. .... . . . ....... . . 812 Los Ba.nos ........ .. ...... Merced.
Los G11tos . .. . .... .. .... .... 292 Los Gatos•• .• .•••.•.•...• Santa Clara.
Madera.... • . • . • . • • • •• • • • .. . • 280 Madera •. •... . .•...•.•.. •. Madera.
Madison....... . . . • . . • • • • • . 23 Grass Valley••. . . •.....•.• Nevada.
Magnolia ....... . ....... .... 242 Santa. Barbara•.••.• . ••.•• Santa Barba.re..
Manzanita. •. . . . . • • • • •. . • •• • . 102 North San Jnan .•..•....•. Nevada.
Marin....... .. ....... . .. . .. 191 San Rafael••.• . .. • .• . . •••• Marin.
Mariposa... . ..... . .... . • • • . 24 Mariposa ... .......... . ... Mariposa.
Martinez. .. . ............ .. .. 41 Martinez ................ Contra Costa.
Maxwell••.••.••••••...••••• 288 Maxwell ... ............... Colnsa.
Mendocino . . ... . ...... ... .. 179 Mendocino . .••••...•• . •.• Mendocino.
Meridian •. .•••• .• •• ••• ••••• 182 Ooliege City•...• ••.....•. Oolnsa.
Michigan Oity.... . .......... 47 Michigan Binlf..••......•• Placer.
Mission ..•. . •.•...•• ••. ••.• 169 San Francisco•.. ••• •... .. Sau Francisco.
Mokeiumne Hill .... .. •..•.• 298 Mokelumne Hill•..••...•. Ca.laveraa.
Molino •. .••• •.• •• . •• . . • •. • . 150 Tehama ••. • •• ••• ••. . .•.•• Tehama.
Monrovia •.••..•••• . ••. .... 308 Monrovia . ...•. .• •. . ...• Los Angeles,
Monterey • . •••••••• . •• . . . .. 217 Monterey .• .••••• • .. •. ..• Monterey.
Morning Star•..... ·•.... . .. • 68 Stockton ..••. . . . •••.•••.• Sa.n Joaqnin.
Mosaic •. •• • . • •• . ••.. .. •• •. • 218 Livermore . .. • .• • ••. .•. . Alameda.
Mount Jackson.. ... .... . ... 295 Gnernevilie ••.. . .•. •. .•• •• 8onoma.
Mount Moriah .. ........ . . . . 44 San Francisco .•. •• •. .••.• San Francisco.
Mountain Shade •• . • . . • • • • • . 18 Downieville . .. . . .. .. . . ... Sierra.
Mount ShRsta. . • . . •• : •·••...• 281 Anderson •. .• . ..• . .•. •• •• Shasta.
Mountain View ............ . 194 Mountain View.......... . Santa Ciara.
Monot Zion . ... .. . • .• . •.••• 114 Grizzly Flat. . . . . .. ... .. .. El Dorado.
Natoma.. ......... . ........ 64 Folsom .. . .. . .......... . . Sacramento.
Naval.. .... . ....... .. .. . .. . 87 Vallejo •• •..••••..•••.•• .. Solano.
Needles .•••..••..•• . ...•.•• 326 Needles . .• ..••..•••.• •••• Sa.n Bernardino.
Nevada............ . .. . . ... 13 Nevada City... ••••• . ••••. Nevada.
Newville . ....... .. ... .. .. .. 205 Newville .... . ...... . ..... Glenn.
Nicolans............. . .. . , .• 129 Wheatland .. .. .. ... .. . ... Yuba.
North Bntte ........... . ..... 230 Gridley .. ................ Butte.

1134
Lodge.

.Alphabetical Li.at of Lodges.

.Al,phabetical List of Lodges.
No.

Poat Offtoe.

Conaty,

North East. . .. . .. . .. . . . .. .. 266 Fort Bidwell........ . .... , Modoc.
Northern Light ............. 190 Millville...... . ......... . . Shasta.
North Star.................. 91 Fort Jones ...... ........ Siskiyou.
Norwalk .. . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. 315 Norwalk .......... .. ..... Los Angeles.
Oakdale .................... 275 Oakdale ...... ... .. . ..... Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ................. 215 Alameda ..•••....••...•.• Alameda.
Oakland ................... 188 Oakland ................ . . Alameda.
Occidental. . . .. .. . . .. . . . . .. 22 San Francisco......•...•.• San Francisco.
Olive Branch ............... 269 Tulare .................... Tulare.
Ontario......... ..... ....... , 301 Ontario... ...... .. ........ San Bernardino.
Ophir...................... 33 Murphy's........ .... ..... Calaveras.
Orange Grove ............. . 293 Orange .. • . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . Orange.
Oriental.. .. . .. . . • .. . . . . .. .. 144. Sao Francisco........ . ... . San Francisco.
Orland ..................... 265 Orland.................... Glenn.
Oroville.......... ........ .. 103 Oroville ......... ... ...... Butte.
Owen ............. . ........ 108 Scott's Bar. . .. .. .. .. . . . .. Siskiyou.
Pacific .... ...... .......... 136 San Francisco... , .•...•.•. San Francisco.
Pajaro ........ ............. 110 Watsonvllle .............. Bania Cruz.
Palmyra ................... 151 Placerville. . . . . . . • • . . • • • . El Dorado.
Parfaite Union....... .... .. 17 San Francisco. . . . . . . . . . . • San Francisco.
Pasadena . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . .. 272 Pasadena ................. Los AngeleJ!.
Paso Robles. .. ... .......... 286 Paso Robles.. .. ......... San Lois Obispo.
Penrbyn.. .. . . . . . .. . .. .. .. .. 258 Penryn ............ .. ..... Placer.
Pentalpha .... .. ... ....... , 202 Los Angeles.............. Los Angeles.
Petaluma . .. .. .. • . .. .. • . . .. 7'1 Petaluma.............. ... Sonoma.
Plu:enlx ........ . ........... 178 San Bernardino . • • . • • • • . • San Bernardino.
Pilot Hill . .. . . .. .. . .. .. .. . . 160 Pilot Hill.... . . • • • . . • . . . . • El Dorado.
Plumas .................... 60 Quincy........ . ... .. ...... Plumas.
Pomona. . .................. 246 Pomona. ... ..... ......... Los Angeles.
Porterville... • .. .. . . . .. .. . .. 303 Portervllle..... ...... .... . Tulare.
Quitman..... ............... 88 North Bloomfield ......... Nevada.
Reading . ... . .. . . . . • • .. . . .. . 254 Redding.................. Shasta.
Redlands ..... , . .... .. ... ... 300 Redlands...•. . .... ... .. . • San Bernardino.
Reedlev .................... 304 Reedley ....... . .......... Fresno.
Rio Vista.. .. .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . 208 Rio Vista... . .. • . . . . .. . . . . Solano.
Rising Star. .. . • .. . .. • . .. . .. 83 Forest Hill •.•. ,, ••.....•. Placer,
Rose's Bar ... .. • . .. . .. .. . .. 89 Sme.rtsville.... .. ........ . Yuba.
Russian River ..... : .... .... 181 Windsor....... . .......... Sonoma.
Sacramento................ 40 Sacramento .............. Sacramento.
Saint Helena... ..... ....... 93 Saint Helena .. ... ........ Napa.
Saint John's.. ... ..... ...... 37 Yreka. ....... .... . . ...... Slaklyon.
Salinas ... ....... .......... 204 Salinas. .... ..... ... ... .. . Monterey.
San Benito ................. 211 Hollister.. . . . . • • . . . . . .. . • San Benito.
San Buenaventura .. .. . ... ,, 214 Ventura....... , .......... Ventura.
Santa Ana.................. 241 Santa Ana... . . .. • . • . .. . . . Orange.
Santa Barbara, ............. 192 Santa Barbara............ Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz....... . .. ....... 38 Santa Cruz ... . .......... Santa Cruz.
San Diego.. . • • • • .. . . . . . . . . . 36 San Diego.... . : . . • . . . . . . . San Diego.
Banger... ... ..... ... .. .... 316 Sanger....... , .. , ........ Fresno.
San Joaquin...... .. .. ...... 19 Stockton ................. Ban Joaquin.
San Jose ................. . . 10 San Joae................ . . Santa Clara.
San Mateo ... .. ... .......... 168 Redwood Cily....
.. .. San Mateo.
San Miguel. ..... . .........(285 San Miguel ............... San Luis Obispo.
S.a.i:ita L\lcia .• , ............. 302 Kings City.... , •.•..•.•..• Monterey.

Lodge.

No.

Poat Offtce.

1135
County.

Santa Monica•.•.. , , , . . . . • • . 307 Santa Monica. . • • . . . . . . . • Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ......... ... . ... 291 Santa Paola .............. Ventura.
San Simeon................ 196 Cambria.................. San Luis Obispo.
Santa Rosa . . . . • .. . . • • . .. .. 5i Santa Rosa.. .. . .. . .. . • .. . Sonoma.
Selma.... . • .. . .. • • . • . • . . . • . • 277 Selma.. . . • . .. • . . . • • . . . . • . Fresno.
Sierra Valley.. ••. .'., ....... 18' • Sierraville................ Sierra.
Sllveyvllle .......... ....... 201 Dixon .......... . ......... Solan~.
Silver Gate..... .... ........ 296 San Di&go. ......... ...... San Diego.
Sincerity .............. , .... 132 Taylorsville .............. Plumas.
SIBBon ............... , . . .• . 310 Sisson.. . ................. Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain ............. 271 Stony Ford ..... . .... . .... Colusa.
Solano ..••. .•..•.•..••..... 229 Vallejo•..•.......•.•.•••• Solano.
Sotoyome •.. .• . , ...... , , ... 123 Healdsburg.. . ........... Sonoma.
Southern California .... ,., • . 278 Los Angeles.............. Los Angeles.
Sonih Gate................. 320 Loa Angeles.. . .... ....... Los Angeles.
Sooth San Francisco•. ...• ••. 212 San Franolaco ...•.• .•••• . San Francisco.
Sooth West ................ 283 National City .......... ;. San Diego.
Speranza Italiana...... • .•• 219 San Francisco............ San Francisco.
Stanislaus.. . • . • . .. . . . .. • . .. 206 Modesto... . .. . . . .. • . . .. • • Stanislaus.
Suisun ......... . ....... , . , 65 Suisun.. . .. .. . . . . ......... Solano.
Summit ............ ."... . •. , 112 Knights Ferry . . , . . •.••.•• Stanislaus.
Sunset... . . .. . . • . . . • .. • • . • • . 290 East Los Angeles. . . . . . . . . Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley............. 235 Cedarville................ Modoc.
Table Mountain ........... , 124 Cherokee.... ............. Bolte.
Tehachapi.. .... . .. ......... 313 Tehachapi................ Kern.
Tehama ................ .. . , S Sacramento .............. Sacramento.
Temescal ... , •••• ••..• •.•.• 314 Aonth Riverside ........... Riverside.
Temple , • • . • .. • . . .. . . . . . . . . 14 Sonoma. ....... , .• •. .....• Sonoma.
Texas.. . ... ,............... 46 San Juan ........ . ........ San Benito.
Trav~r ................ , ..•. 294 Traver....... ........... . Tulare.
Trinity .. ...... ..... ... .... . 27 Weaverville ..••••••••.... Trinity.
Truckee. ... . . ... ..... . ..... 200 Truckee..... ...... ...... Nev11da.
Tllolnmne...... .. . .. • . .. . . . 8 Sonora................... Tuolumne.
Tuscan ... .. ... . .. . .... . ... 261 Williams .. . .............. Oolusa.
Tyrian.. . ....... .•. • .. • • • . 284 Dunnigan................ Yolo.
Union.. .. .................. 68 3acramento... ... ......... Sacramento,
Vacaville .................. 134 Vacaville.................. Solano.
Valley.................. . ... 135 Linden.... .. ............. San Joaquin.
Vesper... . ................. 84 Red Bluft. . .. ..... ........ Tehama.
Visalia ... .. ..... . .......... 128 Visalia................... Tulare.
Vitruviue................... 145 Bloomfield............ . . .. Sonoma.
Volcano. ..... ... •. •. . . . . •• 56 Volcano•. .•...•..•••..•.. Amador.
Washington ... . ... ....... . , 20 Sacramento" ..•••.•.••... Sacramento.
Welcome ... ................ 255 Lemoore ................. Kings.
Western StBr. ......... ...•• 2 Shasta.................... Shasta.
Whittier . . .. . .. • . . . . . .. • • • . 823 Whittier . . • • . . • • • • .. . . .. . Loa Angeles.
Wilmington... . . . . . • . .. • • • • • 198 Wilmington... • . . . . • • . .. • . Los Angeles.
Wlnnedumah .. . . • . • . • .. .. • . 287 Bishop .. . . . . .. • • . . • . .. .. . Inyo.
Woodbridge .. . .. . ....... ... 131 Woodbridge.............. San Joaquin.
Woodland.................. 156 Woodland. . .•...•..•••.•. Yolo.
Yolo..................... .. 81 Yolo ...... .... ..... .... . . Yolo.
Yosemlte . ..... . . .... ..... 133 Coulterville ............. . Mariposa.
Yount ...••...•...•.••.•.• 12 Napa.................... . Napa.
Ynba •• • .. • • .. • • • . • . ... • . • • 39 .Marysville................ Yuba.

(1896'.

1136

"With the Grand Lodge of California.

1896.)

f137

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA

In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of' California.

FOREIGN GRAND . LODGES,
GB.AND LODGES.

GRAND 8EORKTARIEB.

RESlDENCF.8.

OBQA!fIZll:D.

.A.LA.B..UlA, •••••••••••• Henry C. Armstrong, •..•.. MontgCYT11ery, .•••. Jone 15, 1821•
.A!RIZONA,. .......... .. Georl!e J.IRoekroge, .•••. Tucson, . ... ..•.. Mar. 25, 1882.
AB1:ANSAB, ..... . ..• .. Fay Hempstead, .•.•.•.... Littu Ilock, ..•.•. Feb. 22, 1882.
BBITISHCOLUJdBIA, .... W. J. Qninlao, .... ...••••. Victoria, ........ Dec. 'Jfl, 1871.
CANADA, . . .•. • ....... John J. Mason, •••........ Hami/J,on, .•••• ••. Oct. 10, 1855.
CoLORAJJO, ....•.. , . .. Edward Carroll Parmelee,. Denver, ......••. Ang. 2, 1861.
CONNECTICUT, ... .... . John H. B1ulow, •. ... ..•.. Hartford, •.••..• . Joly 8, 1789.
DBLAWARE, •. . ..••..•. Benjamin F. Bertram, ..•• • Wilmington, ...... Jone 6, 1806.
DIST. OF CoLUJdBIA, ... Wilfiam R. Singleton, ...... Washington, ..... Feb.19, 1811.
FLORIDA, •........ •. .. Wilber P. Webster, ..••• •. Jackson'Ville, .... Joly 5, 1830.
GEORGIA, ...••.••..... Andrew M. Wolibin, .•.••. Macon, . ..•. • •••• Dec. 16, 1786.
IDAHO,... . . . .... .. .. Charle• C. Stevenson,. .••. Boise Oity, ... .. .. Dec.17, 1867.
ILLINOIS, ...•..•...••. J. H. 0. Dill,......... .... Bl.oomington, .... Aprjl 6, 1840.
hmliNA, .••...•.....• William H. Smythe, ...... . Indianapoli&,. .•.. Jan. 12, 1818.
lliDLUf T1mRITORY, .•. Joseph Samuel Murrow, •.. Atoka, .••.•• •••• Oct. 5, 1874.
lowA, .•..•.•....... .. Theodore Sutton Parvin,... Cedar Rapids, . . Jan. R, 1844.
KuiBAB, •...•...... . .. Albert K. Wilson •..•...•.. Topeka, •..••.••. . Mar.17, 1R56.
KENTUCKY, . ..•...••.. Henry Bannister Grant,. •. Louis'VUle, . ...... Oct. 8, lROO.
LOUISIANA, ..••.• .... . Richard Lambert, •..•..•. . New Orleana, . .. . June20, 1812.
MAINII:, .. . ...• • .....•• Stephen Berry, .. ...... • • . Portland, .••• .••. Jone 1, 1820.
MANITOBA , ••.•.....•. William George Scott,•.... Wjnnepeg, ... .. .. May 12, 1875.
MARYLAND,•.•...•.... Jacob H. Medairy, .... .••. Baltimore,•.•••.•. April17,l787.
MASSACHUSETTS, . . ..... Sereno D. Nickerson, .•..• . Boston, ..• .• ..•• • Mar. 8, 1777.
MICHIGAN,...•... ... .. Jefferson S. Conover, ... ... Coldwater, ..••••. Sept.17, 1844.
MINNESOTA, ....••. . , .. Thomas Montgomery., .••. Saint Paul, .. .. •. Feb. 23, 1863.
MtssISSIPPI, .••...•••. John L. Power, •••.....••. Jackson, .......• Joly 27, 1818.
MISSOURI, ....•....•.. John D. Vincil, •.. . .. •. .••. St. Loui&,.•• •• •.. May 4, 1821.
MONTANA, ....•..•.... Cornelius Hedges, ..•• .••• . Helena, .. .•.•••.. Jan. 24, 1866.
NEBRASKA, .••••• . ...• William R. Bowen,. ....• . Omaha, ..•••••.. Sept.23, l.857.
NEVADA, .••.•• .•.... Chauncer N. Noteware, . • Garson, .. • .. . •.•. Jan. 16, 1865.
NEW BRUNSWICK, ...•. F. w. Wisdom, .•. . .....•.. Saint John, .•••.. Oct. 10, 1867.
NEW HuCPSHIRE, .•..• George Perley Cleaves, •.. Concord, ........ July 8, 1789.
NEw JERSEY, .•... • .•. Tbos. 8. R. Redway, ....• . 'Jrenton, .•... • .•. Dec. 18, 1786.
NEw Mllroo, . . • • • . • . Alphens A. Keen, . •....... Albuquerque, . .•• Aug. 7, 1877.
Nsw YORI:,•.• .. . ..... Edward M. L. Ehlers, •••.. New York, .. ..... . Sept. 5, 1781.
NOBTH CAROLINA, .. .. John c. Drewry, ..•..• . ... Raleigh, ••.. . ... . Dec. 12, 1777.
NoBTH DAKOTA, ..•... Frank J. Thompson,. •••.. Fargo, •••••••... Jone 13, 1R89.
NovA Boora,. .. ..•. . William Ross, . . .....•••.•• Halifax, ...... ..• Jan. 21, 1866.
OHIO, ..••.•••..•..... J. 8 . Bromwell,•• • ••••.•.. Cincinnati, ..•.. • . Jan. 7, 1808.
OKLAHOMA, •.••.• •. .•• James B. Hunt, ••.....• •. . Stillwater, •..••..• Nov. lo, 189i.
OREOON,..•.•.•••. . •• . James F. Robinson, ••. .... Eugene, .. .•.•.• . . Sept..15, 1851.
PENNSYLVANIA,. ..... . William A. Binn, •••• •••.. • PhilAuklphia, . .••. Sept.26, 1786.
PBINOE EDw'D ISLAND, Neil Mackelvie, . .•.•.. .•.. Summerside ..•..• June 24, 1875.
QUEBEC,.. . . .. ....... John H. Isaacson,. .••... .. Montreal, .•.•.••• Oct. 20, 1869.
RHODE ISLAND, .. ...• • . Edwin Baker, . .. . •. .••... Pruvidence, .•• •.. Jone 27, 1791.
SoUTH CAROLINA, .• •• . Charles lnglesby, ...... ... Charu•ton, .. . • ••. Mar. 24, 1787.
SouTH DAIOTA, ....• . Geo. A. Pettigrew, .•••.•. Flandreau, . • ..• . July 21, 1875.
TENNESSEE,..•.••• .• •. John B. Garrett, ....•••••. Nashville, •....•.. Dec. 27, 1818.
TEXAS, .•••••.••...•.. John Watson,......•...•.• HOU8ton, •...•. ••• Dec. 20, 1837.
Uun, ............... . Christopher Diehl, ••... • .. SaJJ, LakeOity, .•• Jan. 17, 1872.
VERMONT, .. •..• . ...•. Warren G. Reynolds, .•.•• Burlington, .•. ••. Oct. U, 1794.
VIRGINIA, ...••••..•.. Geo. W. Carrington, .. .• .. Richmond, ••..••. Oct. lS, 1778.
WASHINGTON, ..... ..•• Thomas Mllburne Reed, ... Olympia, •••.••.. Dec. 8, 1858.
WEST VIBGINIA, ...••.. George W. Atkinson,.. .. . Whuling, ....••• May 11, 1865.
WISCONSIN, .••.• . ..• • John W. Lallit1, ...•.. .. .... Milwaukee, .. .••• Dec.18, 1843.
WYOMING, . ...... ... . William L. Kuykendall, . ... Sara.J,oga, ••••... Dec. 15, 1874.

Grand Orients and Supreme Councils

In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California,
With Names and Ra1idenca1 of Grand S1cretarie1.

0
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC, Supremo Cbn· t
aejo y Grande Oriente of••..... 1 • • • • tto E. Recke, ••••••••••• Bueno• Air111.
BRLGIUll, Grand Orient of•.•••••.•••.... Rian Nedgrot, .• .• .•.•. •• . Brussels.
BELGIUM, Supreme Oonseil of ............ Leopold Riche, .. : •...••• •Bruaaela.
.
BBAZIL, Grande 01'iente 6 8upr61710 l
Cbfue!ho of.•....••...•........ f ·.·.Dr. Henr1qae Valladares, .• Rio deJaMi.1·0.
CHtLB, Grand Lodge of................ • A.. Echeverria, ............ Valparaiev.
CoLoou,Supremo Oonsejoy Gran· l
de Orfente ot the United States off··· Damaro Zapota,'. •. • •.•• •• Oarthagena.
ISLAND OF CUBA, Gran L6gia . ........ •• Jos6 F. Pellon, ••.•....•.• . HaTJana.
F.GYPT, Grande Ori87lle of. •.•••••.•••••. Francisco F. Oddi, .•..••• •.Alexandria.
ElfGLA!fD, Grand Lodge of............... E. Letchworth, F. s. A., ••. London.
IREL.UID, Grand Lodge of..••....•..•• ; .. Archibald St. George,. ..• . .Dublin.
ITALY, Grande Ori8nte of.•••••••••• . .•. Achille Ballori, ..• ••••..•• Rome.
.
Mllloo Gran L6gia <I.el Dl.Btrito l
hderal of the United States off · · • .Gamahel Arenat ... . ••••. . Mexico.
NBW Bourn WALBS, United Grand I
Lodge of.•••••.••••••..•.••••• f . · .. Arthur H. Bray,.•••••..• . Sydney.
NEW ZEALAND ......................... Rev. William Ronaldson, . . .Auckland.

PEBu, Gran L6gia of Republic of .•••.••. Dr, A. Qoimper,......... •. Lima.
·
PRussu., Rros88 National-Mu/Ur- I
I,og11 der PrewJBiachen Staa.ten, f • · · .E. T. P. Meyerhoff,.•.••••. Berlin.
PBusRu, Grosse Log11 'Oon Preussm, l
Royal York zur Freundsch.aft, f ···.Carl August BoncM, . .•• •• Berlin.
SoOTLAND, Grand Lodge of•. . ..•••...•••• David Murray J,yon, ••.•.... Edinburgh.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Grand Lodge of. • •••• James H. Conningham,. •.. Adelaide.

Bm:i:~i~~. ~-~ -~~.4!. ~- ~.6~:} • ••• Joaquin Reiz, ............. Madrid.
VBNBZUBLA, Br. Ori11nte Nacional l
of the United States of.. . ...... [ •.• •Jose B. Alovzoa,. •. • •• . .. . Oardcat.
,VIO'roau United Grand Lodge of..••..•.John Braim, ............ . • Melbourne.

54

1138

Representativea from tht

Ll896.

1896.]

Grand Lodge of Oaliforni.a.

1139

REPRESENTATIVES

REPRESENTATIVES

Of the Grand Lodge of California near other Grand Lodges and Grand Orients.

Of the Grand Lodge of California near other Grand Lodges and Grand Orients.

Alabama,..................

w... WILLIAM YATKS T!TCOKB, P. M., ..........1886.

Argentine Repnblic,Gr.Or.,

I/l.". VALllNTIN F. BLANCO, 30°, ................ 1877.

New York, ............ ..

Arizona, ....... ...... . ... . M.·. W.·. MORRIR GOLDWATBR, P. G. :M.,'............ 1889.

North Carolina,.... • .. • ..

w.·. A. G. HENDBRSON, P. M.,. ...............1893.

Arkansas,.............. . ...

British Columbia,. ......... R.-. W.-. MARK BATE, P. D. G. M., •. · .. · · · • • ..... • .1887.
Canada, ............... . ... V.•, W.·. GEOBGE STERLING RYEBSON, P. 8. G. D., .. 1892.

W.·. JUAN A. CASTILLO, P. M.,. •· .. · • · .. • · · · • .1891.

Colon and Island of Cnba,..

Colorado, ................. • M. •• W. •• JAMES HAMILTON PEABODY, P. G. M., .• • ...1890.
Connecticut, .... ... ....... V.·. R .·. BBVERLY E. WARNER, G. Chap., .......... 1889.
Delaware, ................ . R.·. W.·. GEORGB WILLIA]( MARSHALL, l'.D.G.M., . .'1886.

( CONTINUIW.)

W.·. HEBBRRT P. DEDRICK, P. M.,. ...... .. .... 1893.
W.·. JOHN C. DREWRY, P. M., ................. 1893,

North Dakota, ................................................... . .. · .... ·• ••·· ..
Nova Scotia, .......... . .. . M.-. w.-. STRPHRN RowLAND Srncox, P. G. M., •.. . . 1869.

w... JOHN WILSON CHAMBERLIN, P. M., .........1886.

Ohio,......... • .. • • . . • • • . • . .

Oregon, ................. .• M.·. W.·. JOHN MCCRAKEN, P. G. M., ...............1870.

w.·. H. STANLEY ' GOODWIN, P. M ,.... . ........ 1889.

Pennsylvania,.............

Peru,.................. . .. . R.·. W.·. J. ARTURO Euo-AGUIBRE, G. S., ... . ...... .. 1886.

Ia... Joss DE CARVALHO AZEVEDO,.............1879.

Portugal, Gr. Or.Lu.aitano,.

District of Columbia,.... . .

W.·. Isu.c SELOVER TICHENOR, P. M., .......•. 1880.

Prince Edward Island, . .• •. R.-. W.-. SIKON WILLIAM CRABBE, J. G. W., ..•.• • •• 1880.

Egypt, Grande Oriente,....

lU.'. FRANCISCO F. ODDI, G. S., ........... • · · .. 1877 •

w.-. HENBY WABlllNGTON LONG, P. G. M., .•.••• 1889.

Quebec, ................. ... R.-.

Florida, ............... . ... M.·.
Georgia, .... ...... .... ... . R.'.

w... JAKES w. TAYLOR, s. G. w...............1875.

Idaho,". ........ . ..... . ............. .. ................... ....................... ..

W.·. JORN McLAREN, P. M., ..... ... .........1887.

Illinois,......... . ...........

Indiana, ................. .. M.·. W.·. FRANKS. DEVOL, P. G. M., ............... 1877.
Indian Territory, .•••. . ..•. M:·. W.·. JosEPH SurosL MURROW, P. G. M., . • • .• •1880.

w.·. LAFE YOUNG, s. G. w., ...................1885.
nz.·. ADRIANO Lunn, P. G. M., .............. 1887.

Iowa, .............. . .... . R.-.
ltAly, Grande Oriente,.. .. ..

W.·. ANDREW M. CALLA.RAM, P. M.,. ........... 1893.
Kansas, ................. ..
Louisiana, . ... .... ..... .. . . M.-.
JORN Q. A. FELLOWS, P. G. M., ..... . .... 1869.

w.·.

..-.·
JD.qllle , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..R.•
. . . .W:·
. . . ,JhNBY R. TAYLOR, P. G. M., .. .. ......... 1885.
Manitoba,. . .............. .

R.-. W.·. FREDBRIOK LBsLIE NBWllAN, P. J. G. W., .. 1892.

W.·. WILLIAK E. BTKUART, P. M., . . ........... 1892.
Mexico, FPderaZ Dist,. of.. M.·. W.·. CARLOS KOCH Rurz, P. G. M.., •• · • •• •· .... 1887.
Michigan,... . ........... .. M.-. W.·. JORN W. McGBATR, P. G. M., .... . . . . . . 1883.
Minnesota, ...... . ....... .. R.-. W.·. GEORGE W. PBESOOTT, P. G. B.,. •. · .... · · .1860.

Maryland,.............. . ..

w... GEORGE CRAWFORD PHILLIPS, P. M., . ..... . 1889.

Mississippi,.... . . . .........

Miesouri, .............. . .. R.·. W.·. JOHN E. RYLAND, P. D. G. M., ........... 1877.

W.·. DAVID MILLER McELBINNKY, P. M., . . .••. 1890.

Nebraska,..... . ..........

w.·. WILLIAM McMILLAN, P. G. M., ..... . .... . 1890.
w... GEORGE OSCAR DICKERMAN, D. D. G. M., .. 1892.
New Jersey, . ......... . . .. M.·. w... JOSEPH w. CONGDON, P. G. M., .......... 1885.
Nevada, ......... . ........ . M.·.

New Hampshire,........ •• R.'.
New Mexico , ............ .
New South Wales, . ....... .

W.-. HENRY LINN WALDO, P. M., . ... .........1878.

.w.·. 0HABLES GREY EW'ING, P . M.,. ...........1892.

w. .. EDSON FITCH, D. D. G. M., ................1881.

Rhode Island, . .. .... ....... .R.·. w... GEO. MOULTON CABPENTRR, P.D.D.G.M.,.1880.
Scotland, .................. . R.·.
Sooth Australia, . .. . ...... ..

w.-. GEORGE DICKSON, v. P. G. 8., ............. 1883.

R.-. W.-. SA.UL SOLOMON, P. B. G. P., .. . .. . ..... . .. 1887.

Spain, Gratid.e Oriente legal, . •.. lll.'. JULIO FERNANDEZ ESPINA,............... 1879.

W.·. MoNTBAVILLE DILLON SlllALLllAN, P. M.,.1887.

Tennessee,.......... .......

w.·. THOMAS M. MATTHEWS, P. G. M............1887.
Utah, . ....... . ...... ..... . M.-. w.·. JoHN SHAw Sc<>TT, P . G. M., . .. ....... .. .. 1877.

Texas,. ........ . ........ ••• M.'.
Vermont, ................ •••

R.-. w.-. GEORG& WASHINGTON Wu;o, D. G. M., ••.. 1887.

Virginia, . ....... .,............. . ..... . .. ..... . .... .... . ... .. ...................... .
Washington, ....... . ...... . M.-. W.•. THOMAS MILBUBNE REED, P. G. M., ........ 1869•
WestVirginia,.............. R.'. W.•, KRPRART DELWA.B WALKER, S . G. W., ..... 1874.
Wisconsin,... . ............

w... WILL!All( CHESTRR SWAIN, P. M., ..........1876.

1140

Representatives to the

[1896.

1896.]

GTan<i Lo<ige of California.

1141

REPRESENTATIVES

REPRESENTATIVES

Of Grand Lodges and Grand Orients near the Grand Lodge of California,

Of Grand Lodges and Grand Orients near the Grand Lodge of California.
(OONTINUBD.)

Alabama,. ....... ••••.••••• M.·. w. .. ALVA.H RUSSELL CONKLIN, P. G. M., ......1886.
Arizona, ..••• .••••••••••• •M. •• W.·. GILBll.BT BUR511:T CLA.IBORllll, P. G. M., .••. 1888.
Arkansas, .•.••••••••••••• . R. '. W. ·• JA.OOB HA.BT NEFF, P. J. G. W.,•••. . •• •••• 1886.
British Colnmbla, .•••.•••••
w.·. AA.RON OHA.LFA.NT, P. M., ••• •••••••• . ..•. .1891.
Canada,. ..•.••••• ••• • •• • •M.·. W.·. J.un:s BA.UNTY STEVENS, P. G. M., . ... ... .1896.
Colon and Island of Cnba, •••
W.·. ROHUA.LDO PA.CHECO, P. lid:., •.••••••••••••• 1881.
Colorado,. ... . .. .... . .. ... .
w.·. JA.HES WBIGHT Ala>EBBON, P. G. L.,•.••••••1890.
Connecticut, ••. •..•••• .••. M.·. W.·. HIRAH NBWTON RuOXBR, P. G. M., ..•••••.• 1889.
Delaware,....... . ..... . . •M.·. W.·. CLA.Y WBBSTEB TA.YLOR, P. G. lid:., .•..•••• 1885,
District of Colnmbia, •...• •• M.'. W.·. NA.TBA.NIEL GREENE CURTii!, P. G. M•..••. 1891.
W.'. ROBERT ALBION POPPE, P. M., ..•.... . .••. 1891.
Florida, ............. . . . . . .
Georgia, .. ..... .......... . .
W.-. WILLIA.Ill 81Hs, P. M.,•• ••••••.• •• •.•.. • ••1891.
Idaho, .......... . ....... ••• R.-. W.-. G&oRGE HINDS, P. J. G. W., •. •••••.•.••. 1886.
Illinois, .• • ••••·• ..........,
JOHN McMUBRY, P. 111.,. ••••.••••.•••••. 1892.
Indiana, . ............... . ... .M.•. W.•. HENBY SA.YRE OBKE, P. G. M., .•••••..•.. 1896.
Indian Territory,. ..... .. .. . M.-. W.·. GEORGE CLEHENT PEllKINS, P. G. M., ..•••i875.
Iowa, ..••.••••.•••.••••••...M.·. W.·. WILLIA.Ill ABBA.HA.Ill DA.VIBS, P. G. M., •••. 1887.
Kansas, . .•••••.•••••••••••
w.·. WILLIA.Ill VA.NDEBHURBT, P. M., ....•••.••• 1893.
Wnisiana, . .......... . .. : . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . • . . ........... . .... . ................. .
Maine, . .. .... ............. v.·.
NA.TRA.N WESTON SPA.ULDING, P. G. T., .. ••1891.
Manitoba, ....... . . . .... .. .
w.•. NILES BEA.RLS, p. Ill., .. ..... . ............. 1896.
Maryland, ........ .... . . .. .
w. .. CHA.RLEB METAPHOR CHA.BB, P. M.,.......1892,
Michigan, ............... ..
w.·. BA.HU11:r. PBA.GEs, P. 111., .... . .. .... .. . ....1891.
Minnesota,...... .. . .. . ....
W.'. BA.HUBL BOND lill'IOKLEY, P. M.,. . ••••.• , :1891.
Mississipp/,. •••• ••..•••. .. M.·. W.·. WILEY JA.HBS Tn11m1, P. G. M.,. . ...... . .. 189,.
Missonri, ................. .
W.·. CHA.RLES HENRY BRYA.N, P. M.,. . ........ 1891.
Nebraska, ................ •M.·. w.·. WILLIA.Ill ABBA.HA.Ill DA.VIBS, P. G. M., .•••. 187,,
Nevada, .•..• • .•••••••••••• V.·. R.·. W1L1'lill HENBY HILL, P. G. Chap., ••••••• 1880.
New Hampshire, .••• ••••• • R.·. W.•. HENBY BA.YBE 0BHB, P. G. M., ••.•.•••••••1893.
New Jersey, . . •.•• • : .......
w.-. WILLIA.Ill HBDGES BA.LDWIN, P. M., ..••••.1891.
New Mexloo, ............. •
WILLlill JOHNSTON, P. G. M.,. . ••••••••••. 1893.
New York, .. ............ ..
W.·. WILLIA.Ill LA.RKIN WOODROW, P. M., ....... 1891.
New Bonth~Wale&, •••••••••
Jos11:PH PETER TBu110R, P. M., .......... 1892.
North Carolina, ......... . . .M.'. W.-. H1BA.K NEWTON Ruo.&:11:a, P. G. M., ••• • ••••1893.

w.·.

w...

M.-. w.·

w.·.

W.'. WILLIA.Ill MONROE PETBm, P. M.,. ......... 1892.
North Dakota, ..... ..... ..
NovaSootia, ..••• •.••• .••• V.-. R.-. JoHND..1.vrosuN HA.WTH'NE BROWNE, P.G.C., 1890.
Ohio, .. . ............ . . . . . M.". W.·. WILLIA.Ill ABRA.HA.Ill DA.VIES, P. G. M.,••.••. 1874.
Oregon,... ...... . .. . .. ....
W.·. JA.HEB Lours BA.BRA.¥, P. M., . •... ..... . . .1891.
Pennsylvania, . •••• •.••.• •• M.·. W·.· EmilUND CLEHENT ATKINSON, P. G. M., . •• 1889.
Prince Edward Island, •.•• •M.·. W.-. EDwA.BD MYERS PBESTON, P. G. M. , ..• ••. 1893.
Qnebec,... ......... . . •• •. .
w.·. JA.OOB VOORSA.NGEB, P . G. o.,............. 1892.
Rhode Island, •.••••.••• ••• R.'. w.·. C~A.BLKS LEWIS PA.T'l'ON, J. G. w ...... . ... 1893.
South Carolina, ......... •M.·. W. ·. ALVA.H RUSSELL CoNltLIN,,i.P. G. M., ...... 1893.
Sonth Dakota, . .. .. ... . ....
W.· . THox.1.s GRA.PTON LA.KBBRT, P. M., .••• •. 1896.
Sonth Anstralia, ....... .... V.·. w.·. NA.'l'~N WESTON SPA.ULDING, P. G. T., •••• •1887.
Tennessee, ..••.••••....... . R.·. w.·. GKORGill HINDS, P. J. G. w., ... .. .. ....... 1891.
Texas,. .. •. .".......... . .... •M.·.
NA.THA.NJBL GREl!NB CuBTIB, P. G. M., .•. •.• 1887.
Utah,. ..................... v.-. R.·. WILLIA.Ill HENRY HILL, P. G. Chap., •.•••. 1877.
Vermont,........... .. . .....
w. .. THOIUS HUBBARD CA.SWELL, P. M., .......1896.
Virginia,.•••• . ••••• •• •••• •• M.'. w.-. JAHBS BA.UNTY ST11:v 1u;1s, P. G. M., ••.. •.. 1893.
Washington,.;.......... . ...
W.·. Jurns WRIGHT ANDBRSON, P. G. L., •. ••• .1891.
West Virginia, ..•• •.•• ••••• . M.". W.·. SAJWEL CRA.WFORD DBNBOl'I, P, G. M.,. .. •1881.
Wisoonsin, ................ . • R.·, W.-. JA.COB HA.BT NKFF, P. J. G. W., •. . .••••.••1887.

w.-.

NOTB.-Grand Secretaries are requested to inform me if tb&J find au1 error on this or the
preceding pages, in the names, rank. or dates of appointment of Repre1eutatives.-GBO. JOBNtiON,
Gr.&c.

1142

List of Elective Grand Officers

[1896.

1896.]

Of the Grand Lodi;;e of Oalifornia.

1143

J 8 5 u.
N ATH'L GREENE CURTIS, .• Grand Master,

Taos. PORTER HAWLKY,Jun.Gr. Warden,

• • Pe:ILIP W.SHEPHEARD, Dep.(}r.Master,

ADDISON MARTIN, •• ••• Grand Treasurer,

• EBlllNEZEB LANE, •• Sen. (}rand. Warden,

• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand. Secretary.

18 60.

GRAND OFFICERS

N ATH'L GRBBNB CURTIS,. Grand Master,
• PHILIP

Elected sinee the Orsanl:lation of the Grand Lodse of California,

w. SHEPHEARD, Dep. (Jr.Master,

• WK.CALDWELL BELCHER, S.(}. Warden,

On tM 18th day of April, A. L. 5851.

•JoNA. DRAKE STEVENSON, • •• Gr. Master,

• SASCHEL WOODS, Jun. (}rand Warden,

JORN ASHBY TUTT,.Dep. (}rand.Master,

• LBvI STOWRLL, ••••• Grand. 7rea.11Urer,

• CALEB FENNER, • • Sen. (}rand Warden,

• JOHN H. GmoN, . • • • • Grand Becref.ary •

1 8 51.
• B~NJ. DANIEL HYu1, •• Dep. <Jr. Master,
• E. F. W. ELLIS,. .Sen. (}rand. Warden,

• BENJ. S. OLDS, . . Jun.

(}rand Warden,
•TOWNSEND A. THOMAS, <Jr. '.Ireasurer,
• LEVI STOWELL,. ••••• Grand. Secretary.

18 5 2.
•B&NJ. DANIEL HYAH,. •• (}rand. Master,

•JoHN RANDOLPH McCoNNBLL,J. (}.War.,

*CHAS. MORTON RADCLIFP,Dep.(}.Mast.!r'

ADDISON MARTIN' .•••• (I.rand '.freasurer'
• LEVI STOWELL, •••• • •• (}rand Searetary.

•Ao:>LPRUS HOLLUB, • • Sen. (Jr. Warden,·

• JAB. LAWBBNCB ENGLISH,. (Jr. Master,

CALEB ELISHA WricoxoN,J. (Jr. Warden,

• Wl!. CALDWELL BELCHER, D. (}.Master,

*JAKES LAIDLEY, •• •• (}rand. Treasurer,

•Joe:N Wx. HARVILLE, Ben. Gr. Warden,

*.A.LEX.GURDON ABELL, Grand8ecretary•

1862.
• WH. CALDWELL BELCHER, Gr. Master,

• RICHARD F. KNOTT, •• Jun. Gr. Warden,

• 1'ow NS END A. THOMAS, Dep. <Jr.Master,

ADDISON MARTIN, ••• • (}rand

• J OllN RIGGS CRANDALL, 8r.<Jr. Warden,

• LEVI STOWELL, .•• •• • Grand Secretary•

'.freasurei·,

1854.
.• IVM. HENRY HOWABD,. (}rand. Jlatser,

• ROBERTN. WooD,Jun. Grand Warden,

N ATH'L GRGRNB CURTIS,.Dep.(}r.Master,

ADDISON MARTIN, •••• • (}rand

'.freasure:r,
• LEVI STOWELL,. •• ••• (}randBecretary.

1855.

•JAKES LAIDLEY , •••• (}rand. Treasurer,

•Joe:N WH. HARVILLE, Sen. Gr. Warden,

• ALEX. GURDON ABELL' Grand. Secretary.

1863 •

•WM.. CALDWELL BELCHER, Gr. ,lfaster,
GILBERT BURNET CLAIBOBNB,D. (}.Master,
Lours COHN, .•• • Senior Grand. Warden,

• ALEX. GURDON ABELL,<Jran(J. Becref.ary.

• ISAAC SUTVENE TITUS, Jun. Gr. Ward .•
•JAKES LAIDLBY, ••• • Grand. Treasurer,

Wl!. ABRAHAH _D AVIBS, Sen. Gr. Warden,

• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand. Secretary.

1865 •
GtLBEB1' BURNET CLAIBORN£, (}r.JlCIJlter,

• HENRY HARE HARTLEY, J. <Jr. Warden,

WH. ABRAHAH DAVIES, Dep. Gr. Master,
• lsAAC SUTVENE TITUS, Sen.(}1·. Ward.en,

• J un:s LAIDLEY , •••• Grand. '.freasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand. Secretary.

181;6.
G!LBlilRT BURNET CLAIBORNE, (Jr. Master,

THOMAS BECK, • • Jun·lor (}rand. Warden,
• JAM.BS LAIDLEY' . • • (}rand Treasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand. Secretary.

• HENRY HARE HARTLEY,Dep. (}.Master,

* 1'owssmND A. THOMAS,Dep.(}r. Master,

ADDISON MARTIN, ••• • Grand.

• WH. HENRY PETERSON, S. Gr. Warden,

] 8 5 6.

•Juras LAIDLBY, ••• •• Grand. Treasurer,

GILBERT BURNET CLAIBORNE,D. (}.Master,

•SAMUEL A. MERRITT, Jun. Gr•. • Warden,

~ Jo11N A. RAYHOND, • • Sen. Gr. Warden ,

WH. ABRAHAM DAVIES, Jun. Gr. Warden,

] 864' •

* \Vx. HENBY HOWARD, • • <Jrand. Master,

1reasu.rer·,
.. LEVI STOWELL, ••••• • (}rand S«i·el.ary.

•JoHN BANKSONHEWSON,J.<Jr. Ward.en,

GILBBRTBURNETCLAIBOBNE,D.<J.Master,

• Wx. CALDWELL BELCS:EB, (Jr. Master,

18 53.
• C11As. MoR1'oN RADOLIFF, •• <Jr. Maat.er,

"Re:CTOR ELISHA COLE,Ben. (Jr. Ward.en,

ADDISON MARTIN, •••• Yrand. Treasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand.Secretary•

18 6 l.

1850.

Jo11N ASHBY TUTT, •••••• (}rand Master,

ALVINZA HA YW ARD,Jun. (}rand Warden,

18 6'7.
WILLIAH ABBAHAHDAVIES,. <Jr. Master,

• LEONIDAS E. PRATT, Jun. (Jr. Warden,

• Wx. HRNRY HOWARD,. .Grana Master,

• PETER WILKINS RANDLE, J . (}.Warden,

*HENRY HARE HARTLEY, Dep.(}.Master,

*JAKES LAIDLKY, •••• Grand Treasurer,

•JOHN A. RA YllOND,Dep. (}rand Ma.ster ,

ADDISON MARTIN, ••••• Grand. '.freasurer'

T11oius BlliCK, . • Senior

*ALEX.GURDON ABBLL, fhoandBecretary.

• LEMUEL LYON, •• • Sen. (}rand Ward.en,

"'ALKX. GURDON ABELL,<Jrand Secretary•

1857.
NATR'L GRRENE CURTIS,. Grand. Ma.ster,

*JOHN BAPTISTE BOP&, Jun. (Jr. Warden,

• CHARLBS MARSH,. .Dep. (}rand. Master,

ADDISON MARTIN, ••••• (}rand. '.freasurer,

• AARON DAVIS PABK,.Ben. (Jr. Ward.en,

*ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand. Secretary •

1858.
NATH'L GR&BNE CuR1'IB,. (}ranlJ. Master,

* J AS. WITHERSPOON BICIOIELL,J. (}.War.,

• P111L1P W. S11BPH&ABD, Dep. <Jr.Master,

ADDISON MARTIN, ••• • Grand '.freasurer,

•WILLIAM McCORMICK, Sen.(}r. Warden, ,

*ALEX.GURDON ABELL,GrandBecretary.

•Decoesed.

(}rand Ward.en,

1868.
• Ce:ARLES MAsse:, •••••• Grand. Master,
.. LBONIDAS E. PRATT, Dep. (Jr. Masur,

FRED. FERDINAND BARBS, J. Gr. Ward.en,
• JAMBS LAIDLEY, •••• Grand. Treasurer.

Te:1110. GUEVARA COCKRILL, S.(}. Ward.en,

• ALEX. GURDON ABBLL, Grand. Secretary.

18 69.
• LEONIDAS E. PRATT, ••• (}rand. Master,

RICKARD DALE,. Junior (}rand. Warden,

• ISAAC 8UTVEN£ TITUS, Dep.(}r. Master,

• JAHBS LAIDLKY, •••• Grand '.freasurer,

•Joe:N SHERRILL W ARD,Ben.Gr. Ward.en,

• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, (}rand Secretary.

• Deoeaaed.

1144

· IMt of Eledive Grand Officers

[1896.

1896.J

Of the' Grand Lodge of OaUfornia.

1145

18 81.
18'70.
• LBONIDAB E. PBA'l"I', • • (}rand Maattt-,
• Is.a..a.o SOTv11N11 TITUS,. Dep.Gr.Master,
•ca.a.a. LOUIS WIGGIN, Ben. (Jr. Warden,

• BBNJ. HORTON Fmm11.a.N, J. Gr. Warden,
• J AllBB LAIDLBY ..... (}rand 7reaaurt'I",
-ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand Searetary.

18'71.
• LEONIDAS E. PRA'l"I' ••• (}rand Mastl!r.
•CHAS. Loms WIGGIN,.Dep.(}r.Master,
• BENJ. HORTON FRBSllAN,8.(}. Wa•dl>n,

Gso. CLBllEN'I' PBBKINB, Jun. (Jr. Warden,
• JAMES LAIDLBY, •••• (}rand 7reasurer,
•ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand Secretary.

18 '7 2.
• LBONIDAB E. PRA'l"I', •• (}rand Master,
• BllNJ, HORTON FRBBllAN,Dep. (}.Master,
Goo. CLBll!llNT PBRnNs, Sr. (Jr. Warden,

•JoHN MILLS BROWNB,.Jun. (Jr. Warden,
•J.a.lllEB LilDLBY,. ••• Grand 7reasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABBLL' (}rand Secretary.

18'73.
• ls.1..1.0 SOTVEN& TITUS, Grand Master,
Gso. CLBlllENT PERKINS, Dep. Gr. Master,
•JoHNMILLSB11owNB,8en.(}r. Warden,

GBO. CLEllENT PERKINS, . • (}rand MaBUir,
•JOHN MILLS BROWNB,.Dep. Gr. Master,
Wx. BOYD PARKBR, Ben. (}rand Warden,

CHAS. EDW. MITCHELL, Jun. (Jr. Warden.
• J .a.1111s LAIDLBY, •••• Grand 1reasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, (}rand Beureta.ry.

WILEY JA.H£s TINNIN. Jun. (Jr. Warden,
• JAMBS LAIDLBY, •••• (}rand 7reasurer,

J.1.coe HART NBFF, Jun. (}rand Warden,
• J .1.11111s LilDLBY, •••• Grand Tt·easurer,
• ALBL GURDON ABELL, Grand Secretary.

18'76.
•JoHN MILLS BROWNE, • • (}rand Master,
•CHAS. LoUIS WIGGIN,. Dep. (Jr, Master,
•wx. SEWALL WELLS, Ben. (Jr, Warden,

SOLON W.11. CRAIGUE, Jun. (Jr. Warden,
• JAHBS LAIDLBY, ••• • Grand 7reasurer,
o ALEX. GURDON A.IIBLL 1 (}rand S«retary,

18'7'7.
•JOHN MILLS BROWNE, . • Grand Master,
•Cll.AJI. LOUIS WIGGIN, Dep. Gr. Master,

W11. HENBY CRANE, •• Jun. Gr. Warden,
• MOSES HELLEB, •••• (}rand '.lhlasurm·,

• Wx. WILBON TRAYLOR, Sr.(}r. Warden,

.. ALEX. GURDON ABELL, (}rand Secretary.

18'78.
•JoHN MILLS BROWNE, •• (}rand Master,
• W11. WILBON Tlr.AYLOB, Dep. (},Master,
vi11. HENRY CBAm:, • • Ben. Gr. Warden,

Roe''!' CHIDLBY BRODllll, Jr. (Jr. Warden,
- MOSES HBLLBB, •••• Grand 7reasurer.
•ALEX. GURDON AeELL, Grand Secretary,

JOHN QUINOY ADA.lle, Jun. (Jr. Warden,
• M.osss HBLLBR, ••• • (}rand 7reasurer,
•ALn. GURDON ABELL, (}rand Beoretary.

1880.
SA.HUBL CBAWFOBD DENSON,. (Jr.Master,
CLAY WBBBTBB TAYLOR, Dep.(}.Mast,er,
JonN QUINOY AD.1.KB,.&n. Gr. Warden,

18 82.
GEORGE HrnDs, . • Junior Grand Warden,
• MOSES HELLER, ••••• (}rand 7Teasurer,

EDHUNDCLEHEN'I' ATKINSON. 8.<Jr. War.

"ALEX. GURDON AIIBLL, Grand Secretary.

1883.
•JONATHAN DoAN HINES, (}rand Master,
WILBY JAKES TINNIN, Dep. Gr. Ma.¥1,er,

HrnAH NswroN RuOKllll, Jr.Gr. Warden,
• MOBBS HELLER, ... •• <JrantJ. Treasurer,

EDHUND CLBHBN'I' A'l'.DNBON,8.G. Ward.,

• ALEX, GURDON ABELL, Grand Secretary.

•JONATHAN DOAN lirNBB, Grand Master,

HIRAM NEWTON Ruo.KBR,Jr.(}r. Warden,

WILBY JAMBS TINNIN,. .Dep. (Jr .Master,
EDllt!ND CLB.llBNT ATKINSON,8.(}. Ward.,

• MOSES HELLBB,••••• (}rand '.lreasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABBLL;Grand BeerBtary.

18 8 5.
WILBY JAlllE8 TINNIN,•.• ,(}rand Master,
EDHUND CLBHSN'I' ATKINSON, IJep.G.Mas.,
HIRill NEwTON RUOKER, 8. (}. Warden,

HENBY HAY KNAPP, Jr. Grand Warden.
NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING, (}.Treas.,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL,Grand Beuretary•

18 8 6.
EDllUND CLEMEN'!' ATKINSON,. (}.Master,
Hra.a.111 NEWTON RuoJIBB, IJep.G. Ma&er,
MoRBIS MABCH EsTBE,8en.<Jr. Warden.

ALVAH RUSSELL CONltLIN, J. (}.Warden,
NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING,(}. 7has.,
•ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand Bercetary•

188'7.
HIRAM NEWTON Ruoun, (}rand Marter,
:M:oRBIS MA.ROH EerJm, Dep. Gr. Master,
ALVA.ll RussELL CoNKLIN, 8. G. Warden,

WILLIAll JOHNSTON, Junior <Jr. Warden,
NATHAN WESTON SPAULDING, (}. Trecu.,
•ALEX. GURDON ABELL, (}rand Secretary.

18 88.
llfoRBIS MA.ROH Es'l'BB, •• Grand Master,
ALvA.H RusSBLL CONKLl.!I, D. (}.Master,
WILLIA.ll JoHKBTON, Sr. (}rand. Warden,

•MA.ROUS DEBKIIIBll Bo11uo11:, J. (}.War.,
NATHAN WBBTON SPAULDING, 01·. Treas.,
• ALKX. GUBDoN ABBLL, Grand Seureta.ry•

18 8 9.
HOBBIS MA.ROH EBTBB, .. (}rand Master.
WILLIA.ll JOJ[J(e!'ON, Deputy Gr. Ma.¥1,er,
°CHABLBB RAY GRITMAN, Br. Gr. Ward.,

HENBY SAYBlil OIU!Jll,..Jun. Gr. Warden.
NA'l'HA.ll· WEB'l'ON 8PAULDING, (Jr. 7rea&,
•ALEX. GURDON ABELL,Grand8ecretary.

1890.

18'79.
• W11. WILBON TRAYLOR,, Grand Master,
SAK'L CaiwiroBD DBNSON,Dep.(}.Master,
CLAY WEBS'l'BR TAYLOB,San.(}. Warden,

• Taos. JBFFEBBON BoWBBS,Jr.(}. wa,.d.,
•Mossa HBLLBB, .•••• Grand Treasurer,
"ALBX. GURDON ABBLL, <Jrand BeereJ,ary.

OLAY WEBSTER TAYLOR, Grand Master,
•JONATHAN DOAN Bnras, D. Gr. Master,

• ALllX. GUBDON ABELL, (}rand Seuretary.

18'7 5.
•JoHN MILLS BBOWNB, •• (}rand Mas"8r,
•Cn.i.s. Lours WIGGIN, Dep. Gr. Master,
WILBY J.1.os TINNIN, &m. Gr. Warden,

CLAY WsesTEB TAYLOR, Grand Master,
JOHN QumoY ADAllS, Dep. Gr. Master,
•JoNATHAN DoA.N HINES, 8.(}. Warden,

OBBIN WHIT'B HOLLBNBBOK,J.(J. Warden,
• MosBB HBLLBB, •••• (}rand 7reasurer,
• ALEX. GURDON ABELL, Grand Secretary.

ALVAR RtJsssLL CoNKLIN,

(Jr. MCJ$1.er,

D81). Gr. Maater,
°CHABLE8 RAY GBl'l'llA.ll, Br. Gr. Warden,
WILLIA• JoHNB'l'ON,

HENBY BAYBE Omm, Jun. Gr. Warden,
NATHAN WBBTOl'I BPAULDl.!IG, (Jr. 7rea&.,
..ALmx. GURDON ABELL, •• (Jr. Secretary.

J 8 91,
WILLIA.ll JOUNSTON,••••• (}rand Master,
°CHA.S. RAY GBITllU.l'l, •• Dep. Gr. Ma61,er,

JA.HB8 BAUN'l'Y BTsvBlls,Jun.(}r. Warden,
NA'l'lfAN WESTON SPAULDING, (Jr.Treas.,

ilBNBY SAYRE OBHB, Sen. <Jr. Waraen,

GBORGs JOHNSON, ••••• Grand Secretary.

• Deceaaed.
•Deceued.

55

1146

List of Elective Grand Otfict'!T'B.
189~.

•CHABidl:B RAY GBIT¥AN, Granf1 Master,
HENBY SAYRll: Oma:, •.Dep. (Jr. Master,
JAlUIB BAUNTY STEVBNs, /:Jr.Gr. Warden,

EDWARD MYll:RB PllsTON, Jr. (Jr, Ward.,
NATHAN WBSTON SPAULDING, Gr. '.&eas.,
G.soRG.s JoHNBON, .•.• (}rand 88aretary.

18 93.

HBNBY SAYBll Osn, .. ••Grand Maater,
Ju1111s BAUNTYSTBVBNB, Dep.Gr.Marter,
EDw'D MYBBS PBllllTON,..Sr.(}r. Warden,

Wx. THOHAS LuoAB,.Jun. Gr. Warden,
EDWARD OoLElilN, .• • Grand '.&easurer,
GBoBGE JOHNSON, .•• . Grand Secretary.

18 94,

JAKES BAUNTY STBVENs, .. (}rand Maat,er,
EDWARD MYBBB PRESTON, D. (}.Matier,
WILLIAll THOJ!All LuoAB,8r. (}.Warden,

THolils FLINT, Js., .. Jun. Gr. Warden,
EDWARD COLEMAN, • ... Grand Tre11$U1'6r',
GEORGE JOHNSON, .•• .• <kand Secrebu'y.

1895.

EDWARD MYEBB PBEBTON, (}rand Mast,er,
WILLIAlll THOMAS LUOAS, Dep.(}.MalllRr,
THOMAS FLIRT, Jn., 8en. <JrandWardnl,

FRANK MARION ANGBLLOTTI, J.(}. Ward.,
EDWARD COLEMAN, (}rand Treaaurllf",
GEORGE JOHNSON, Grand Beoretary.

1896.

WILLIA• THOllAB LUCAS, (}rand Malter,
THous FLINT, JB., Dep. Grand MaBter,
F.~.~- ~.~10.N. A~GB~Lo:rri, 8. (},War.,

0HARLBS LBW!S PATTON, Jr. (Jr. Warden,
EDWARD CoLBHAN, Grand 7reaaurer,
GBOBGE JOHNSON, Secretar71.

"Deceued.

INDEX.
A
ABBOTT, DAVID CONGEB-Relative to,..................... . ... ............ .. .. .833
Aocomrrs-Of the Grand Sec'y and Grand Treasorer-Relative to, ..596-600, 817, BIR
ADDBBss-Or the Grand Master-Report on, •.• • . •. ••. • •• . ••••• • ••• 567-581, 618, 619
ALAHEDA LODGE, No. 167-Relative to ............................. 84.1, 842, 852, 853
ALPBABBTICAL LIST OF LoDGBB, .......... . ............... . .. ... , , ........ 1131-1135
ALLOWANCBB-To Representatives of Lodges . .............................. 845-851
ALHANAo-Of Foll Moone, etc.,. ... ... . .... . ........ ..... . .. .. .. . ."............. 867
A.llmmll.BNTB-Proposed-To By-Lawe of sondry Lodges-Rel. to, ...574., 593, 815, 816
AMEHDMBNT TO CONSTITUTION-Relative to,. . ... ... . . . . . .. . .... . .. . . .. . 574, 831, 866
ANDllBSON, JAMES W.-Trostee of Home, ..... .. .. .... ............ . ............ 852
APPOINTlllENTS-Of Graod Officers ......... . ..... . ............................. 852
Of Oommittees and to OJI vacancies,........ ....581, 601, 786, 824., 84.2, SSS
APPROPRIATIONS-For sondry pnrposes-Relative to, . .••• .•• •• 673, 819, 834., 836, 84.4.
ATTKNDANCE-Of members at this Oommunlcation-Relative to, ••• • ... • • ••. 566, 854.
AUDITDIG COKMITTBS-Report of, .. .... ......... . ....... . ................. .. .. 842

B
BAK.BR, Sil!UBL GBOBGB-Expnleion of affirmed, . •• ••• •• , • •. •.• •. , •. •.•.•... •: •. 812
BOARDS OF BBLIEF-Maaonic-Reporte of-Relative to-Report on, .• • . 570, 577-579,
602- 617. 819
BONARDI, PETER (B. A.)-Expnlsion of affirmed, ................ .. .......... . .... 811
BY- LAws OF Looo11:s-A.mendmente to- Report of Oommittee on,•• . 674., 593, 816, 816
BALL, J. E.-Appropriatlon to, .. ... . ..... .... ............... : ............. 816, 834
BoNDs-Of Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer, .............................. 834.

c
CHABTERBD LODGES, ... .. ........... .. .................. ... ... .... ....592, 593, 854.
CHARTERS-Report of Oommittee •.m-Relative to,••. ....• . ...•. •.... . . .IS73, 692, 823
ColllllITTBBS APPOINT.B1>--Regolar, Standing and Special, ..•••.••. 581, 601, 786, SSS
.
CoMJUTTEES REFORTBD-Regular and Standing-See names of Committees.
Bpeoin.l-On Annnal Addre88 of Grand Master, .••.•.•••••.••.•••• 618, 619
On Annual Report of Grand Secretary,.. ·.... .............. ......... 808
On Annual Report of Grand Lec\urer, • .••• .• • ••• •.•.••• •• •.••• SU, 825
On Widows' and Orphans' Home, ......... .. .. . ........ ..... ... 819...S21
CORNEB STONBB-Relative to laying of, ... .. ..... . .......... ... ....576, 577, 620-638
COBPORATIONB-Relative to, ..... ...... ... ...... .......... . ................... .. 822
CoRRESPONDENCB-Report of Committee on,. .............. . ... ....... .. .... 635-786
CBEDBNTI.lLS-Reportll of Oommittee Oft, . ••••••••..••••• •• •..• • •• .582--591, 634, 824
CHBESTBBEN, ll-OBBllT-Relative to-Snspension of,.... .. .. ... ...... 699, 811, 812, 1119
0RBll.lTION-Relative to,...... . ............................... ........... . . .... 670
CUSTODIANS OF TH& Won-RelaUve to, ... . ... ................................843

11

Index.

In~.

D

GBEBNVILLE LODGE-Relative to consolidation with Sincerity,... , .•• , ••• , . .. 830-831
GBIEVANCEe-&ports of Oommittee onPhilip Hammond-Suspension of affirmed,. ........... . . . . ..... . .... 811
Orville Benedict Phelps-Expulsion of affirmed, .• . .... •....•. .••.... .SU
l:!tephen Farrington-Expnlsion of aft!rmed,.. .. . . • • . • . .. .. . .....••.SU
James Daniel Reilly-Saspenslon of affirmed,. . ... . . .... , . .. . . ....... 811
Peter Bonardi (E. A.)-Expulsion of aft!rmed,. ................. .. .. . 811
David Albert Shaw- Acquittal of affirmed . ..••••. . , ...••• , ••.•••••.. SU
Robert Chrest.esen-Snspended by Grand Lodge,. .• , ••....••.. • . 811, Rl2
Samuel George Baker-Expulsion of affirmed, ••....••.•.•... . •. ..• .• 812
William Henry Mentor-Expelled by Grand Lodge, .... . ..... .... .... SIS
William W.R. Reeves-Suspension of aft!rmed,. . . , ,., . • ... •• ... •.•• • . 893
Fresno and Corinthian Lodges-Relative to,. .. .. , . ... ... . ... . .. . 832, 833

DEGREES OF MASONRY,., . ............... . . . .. . .. ... .. . ... .. . .' .. . ... .. . ... .. 569, 570
DEGREE OF MA.STER MASON-Relative to lectnre in,. .• . .• •..•.•••• • •. •. . 575, 576, 843
DISPlll!IBATIONB-For ne"' Lodges issued-Relative to, .... . . . •• . . .... , . . •.• , .574, 592
~ecia!-lssned for sundry purposes-Relative to, •..570, 57S, 593, 594, 809
Du11s-Relative to payment of, .. . .............. .. .. . .... , ............ . . . . . 570, 597
D1101s10NS-By Grand Master-Report of Committee on, •. .... , ....• , ••. 569-117],, 809

E
ELECTION-Of Grand Officers-Relative to, .. .• ••.•. , .......• . 567, 568, 832, 842, 843
ELECTIVE GRAND 0FFICEBs-Relative to expenses of for attendance, .. . .. . . ... , .835
EXPENSES-Of Elective Grand Officers-Of Grand Lecturer-Relative to, 825, 835, SU
EXPERT-On books of Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer-Report of,. ••. 817, 818
ExPur.s10Ns-Su.'11enriom and .Acquittal-List of affirmed, , •.•• • ••• , •• , . .• .. , .. 1119

F
FALL RIVER LoDGE, No. 270-Relative to, . . . .. " .............. . .. . ............. 592
FARRINGTON, STEPHEN-Expulsion affirmed,. ... ................. ... ............ . 811
FEES FOB DEGBllllB-Relative to, .. ........... .. ... . .. . ..... . . . . . ........ .. ..... .593
F11u.No11:11-Reports of Oom. on-On books, etc., of Gr. Sec. and Gr. Treas., 833, 834
On bonds of Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer, , . , . .... .. •.• ..• , 834
On Boards of Relief,.. . ......... . . .... ... . ..... •• ••• •. .. . .•. . .. .... 819
On appropriation for Past Grand Master John A. Tutt, .. . ..... ... .. . . . 834
On expert on books, ..... .. .. . .......... ... ... . .. . ....... , . .... . 817, 818
On appropriations for salary and expenses of Grand Lecturer, .... 834, 844
On appropriations for the several Masonic Boards of Relief,.,, ••.••••.819
On appropriations for attendance of the elective Grand Oft!cers, ..•.. . 835
On appropriations for salaries of Grand Officers, etc., for the year,. .. . 834
On appropriations for Past Grand Master's jewel and pict ure, ... , •... 851
On Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, ......... ,, . . . .. . . ••.. .• , ••. 84.1
On appropriation to Marin Lodge for .J . E. Ball,. ..... . ...... . . .. . ... . 834
On appropt"iation to Bro. George I.ord, . . .... . ............. .. ... . 816, 817
On mileage to Inspectors, ...... . ................... . . . ............. 817
FORl!IGN GRAND Bom11s-Rep. ofOom. on Oor. OD proceedings of, 635-786, 1140, 1141
FRESNO AND OORINTHIA.N LODGES-Relative to, ..... . ... . .......... ........ 832, 833
FUNDS-Relative to 11se of, . .... ... ..... . ........ . .. . . .. ... ... . . .. . ....... 569, 570

G
GRAND Bon111e- Abroad-Reports on-List of in correspondence with,. •. ••. , ••. 1197
GRAND LBCTUBER- Relati:ve to appointment of and salary for,, . ..• . .. ... 834-844, 852
Annnal Report of-Report of Committee on, •. ,. : ... . •. 786- 808, 824, 825
GRAND LODGE-Convening of for varions purposes, ...... .... ,.. . ...
. .... 576, 577
GBAND Looo11:11-0/th11 United States and British .America-List of, .. •.••• • .• •. 1136
GBA.ND MASTER-Annual Address of-Decisions of-Rep. of Com. on, 567-581, 618, 619
GRAND 0IrFICllB8-Election, appointment and installation of,... . . • . , . , . t!42, 843, 852
List of elected since organization of the Grand Lodge, .. •. .•••. 1142-1146
For the year commencing October, A. L. 6896, , •• ••.••••• •• •• , •• , ... :564
GBAND OBA.TOR- Annual Oration of-Relative to,.,.,,, .. , . .. . ... . .. . .•.••• .604, 619
GBAND S11CRBTABY- Annnal Report of- Report of Committee on,. •. .. ... 591-597, 808
GRAND TBEA.BUBER- Annnal Reports of- Report of Committee on,. .. 597- 600, 833, 834

iii

H
Hoo-For widows and orphans of Masons-Relative to, ,577-579, 620-633, 816, 819822, 825-828, 841
HA.ll.M:OND, PHILIP-Snspension affirmed, ....... . . ..... ......... .. .. . .. . . . . .. ... 811
HENDRY, ANDBllW M.-Relative to claim or, .. .. . . ... .. . . . . .. .. ......... . .. .. .. 816

I
lNBPECTORB-Qf Masonic .Dilltricts-Relative to,. .....•••..• . ..•••.••••• . •. 801-806
INSTALLATION-Relative to,. . . ... ...... .. ... . ... . .. . .. . . . .... . ........... ... .. 852
IONIC LoDGll, No. 121-Relative to,. .......... . . . ... ..... .. .......... .. ... 571, 572

J
JJJRISPBU!lENOs-Reporl• of Oommillee onRelative to decisions on qnestions of Masonic law by Grand Master,. .. 809
Relative to Memorial Services at Washington,. . .......... . .. .. . .... . 828
Relative to Grand Lodge of Victoria, .. : •...•.. .•• ... . ••.•. •... .• •.•. 829
Relative to consolidation of Greenville and Sincerity Lodges, ..... 830, 831
Relative to ~pecial dispensations Issued, . . ........................... . 809
Relative to trial of Master of Snisun Lodge, No. 55, ... . ..... .. ....... 809
Relative to Masonic Cemetery Association, .............. .. ... . .. 809, 810
Relative to testimonials presented to a Grand Master, . . ........ . .... . 828
Relative to Grand Lodge of New Zealand,... .... . ....... . ... . .......829
Relative to rejected candidates, .................. , ... .. ..... . . . .. ... 830
Relative to Grand Lodge of Wisconsin,. ... . . . . . . . . ............ . .. . ... 831
Relative to establishing Lodge In Puis, France, .... . . . . .. . ........... 831

L
LODGEB-Chartered this year-Returns~Statistical Tables-Alphabetical List of, 854,
868-1119, 1131-1135
LoDGEs-Nnmber of in jurisdiction,.... . . . ....... . .. . ......... . .......... . .. . .593
LOBD, GEOR<lll-Relative to .. ... . ... . ....... .. .. . . . ... . ..... . . .. .. . .. 595, 816, 817

M
MABIN LoDG11-Approprlation account of J, E. Ball,.. . ....... . . . .. . ... . .... 816, 834
MASONIC BOARDS OF RELIEF-Reports of-Rel. to- Report of Oom. on, . . 604-617, 819

iv

Index.

l!UsONJC OElllllTllRY Aes'11-Rel. to-Report or Com. on-Action on, 604, 809, 810, 817
MABTEB8 OF LoooBS-Relative to authority or, . .... . . . .. . . . ... . ... . . . .......... 570
MASTBR MASON DBGB1111-Relative to.,... . .... . ... .. .. . .................... 676, 676
JllAYBB, JAOOB-P. G. M. of Oregon-Reception or, ... . ....... .. ........ . . . .... 826
Mi:HBERSHIP-Total in jurisdiction,. .• . . . •••• • .••.. . .. • •..•. •. • ••••••• i •• • 69S, 1130
JilENTOB, WJLLiill HBllBY-Expelled by Grand Lodge,. .. . . . .. . ................. 813
MOURNING PAass-In memory or Paet Masters or juriedlotion, deceased,. .•. 861-$6
MEJllOBl.lL SKBVJCE-At Washington-Relative to,. •• • .• • •..• •• . ••••••• • • •• ••••• 828

SP!iCIAL D1SPENl!ATI011s-Iesued by the Grand Master-Rel. to, 573, 692, 593, 694, 809
BTATISTIOAL TABLB8-0f returns of Lodges for the year, etc., .•. , .• ••• ..... 1120, 1129
BuSPE!ISIO!IS-11>.t:puZ.iona and Acquittal-List or,. . .. ..•.•...•......•...•.•• . . 1119
SUSPENSION FOB No!l·l'AYlll!E!IT OF DUBS-Relative to,. ..... . ...................... 671
SI!IOERITY Looos-Relative to consolidation with Greenville, ....•• • . •. ... . 880, 831
STIIBOLS-Relat!ve to use of, .. .. .. . ..... .. ........ . ... . ......... . .. . ....... . . 822

N

TESTDIO!IIAL-To Past Grand Master James Bauoty Stevens-Relative to,. ...... 813
TELBGRAl'H RATES-Relative to,. .. .............. . ... . ........................ . 824
TBIAL REOOBDS-7ran.scripte of -Relative to,. ....... . . ... . ........ 593, 811-813, 833
TBUSTl!E MASONIO WIDOWS' A!ID 0BPHANS 1 BoHB-Appointmeot or,. .•••••• • ••••. 852
TuTT, Jou11 A.-Relative to appropriation in aid of, •..••••••••.•.•...•••.••••••. 884
TUA!IKB-Or Grand Lodge,. ..... . ............... .. .. ........ ......... 844, 862, 858

NECROLOGY ....... . ..... . . . .. . .... .. . ... . ........ ... .. _ . ..... ........... . 861-&!6
N:sw ZUL.t.ND-Graud Lodge of-Relative to,. . .. . . .... . .. .... .. . .. . ....... 696, 829

0
OFFICIAL VISITS-Relative to, . . . .. . . ...... . . . ..... . ... . . . ... . . ........677, 787-800
OIU.TJON-By Grand Orator-Relative to, . .... .••. . . .. •.• . •. . .••••. 604, 619, 629-698

p
PAST GR.ilD MASTER'S PICTURE AND JEWBL, ..... . . ..... . . . .. ......... . ..... . . 851
PAST MASTBBS-Deceased-lllournlog Pages•. .. . .•••• ••••.•.• ••. •• . .• .• .... 861-865
PAY OF MElllBKBs-Report of Oommittee un-Allowances by Committee,. • • . 846-861
PETITIONS- For dispensation to establish new Lodges,... . ...... . . .. . ... . ... 674, 692
PBEBENTATIOll-Of testimonials to Past Grand Ma~ters Stevens and Preston, 813, 862
PnocEEDI!IGs- Relative to, . . ... ..... .... . .... . . .. .. .. ... .. . . .... ..... .. . . . 691, 592
PuBLPS, OBVILLB BBllEDICT-Expulsion affirmed,. .... . . . .... . ......... . ......811

R .
REOBIPTS-By the Gr. Secre~ry and Gr. Treasurer-Relative to, . .••696, 698, 855-860
REEVBB, WILLiill W. R.-Suspension affirmed,. ..• . . • . . •• ...••• • • •••. •••• ••• • •833
REILLY, J .u JEs D.unxL- Suspension a!!lrmed, ..• .••... • .... • •• • •• •. ••••.• . . •• •. 811
RELJEF--Maaonio Boarda of- Reports or-Relative to-Report of Committee on, 677579, 602-617, 819
REPORTS-Of Regular, Standing and Special Coms.-See "Committees Reported."
Of the Grand Secretary-Report of Committee on, . . .......• .691..,597, 808
Of the Grand Treasurer,. .......... . .... . .. . .. ... ... .. ......... . 0!17-600
Of the Grand Lecturer-Report of Committee on, . . ..• • . 78~, 824, 825
Of the Inspectors, as condensed lo G. L's Rep't-Rep't on, 801-806, 824, 826
Of the Masonic Boards of Relier·-· Report of Com. on, 677-579, G~l7, 819
Of the Home Trustees, ........ . . ... . .. . . . . ... . ... . .. .... ........ 819-821
RllPRESll!ITATION-In the Grand Lodge- Relative to,. • .•.. ....•• . ••••.•.••••666, 854
REPBESENTATIVE FUND- Relative to does for account of,...... ...... ... . ....... . . 851
REPRBSB!ITATIVKS-From and to Grand Lodge of Cal.-Rel. to-Lists of,. ... 1138-11'1
RBSERTB FU!ID-Report of Grand Treasurer on,. •. .• ... .•• . ••.•••• • ........ • , . • . 600
RlrruBNS- Repoi·t of OommWee on,. • • .. . . .. . • . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . • . • .. . .835--84.0
RITUAL-Relative to-Appointment or Committee on,. ••••• . •• . 676, 676, 786, 824, 843

s
SAUJIIBS-Of Gmtld Officera- Relative to,. . .. ... .. .. . ... . . . ................ 834
SHAW, DAVID ALBERT- Acquittal of affirmed,. .. ... .. . .... ... . . . .. . ..... .... . . . . 811

T

v
VISITS-To Lodges and Districts by Grand Master and Grand Lecturer-Relative to,
677, 789-800
VICTORIA GBAND Looo:s-Relat!ve to,. •.. • •. • ••.•.. .. ..•..•..•••.•••••••••• •696, 829
VAOA!ICIES-A.ppointments to fill,............. . .. .. .. .. • • . • • . • ••• .• ••. 666, 601, 786

w
w ABHINOTON MBXORIAL SBRVICB-Relative to,.......... . ....... . . . ........696, 828
WIDOWS' AND ORPHA!IS' HOME-Relative to,. . .. .. 677-679, 620-638, 816, 819-822, 825828, 841.
WIDOWS OF MASONS-Relative to rights of, ...... .... ............... . .. . ... . .... . 570

