GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

t

t

ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Grand Ma ster
September 30. 1960 - September 29. 1961

ALFRED FISHER BRESLAUER
GRAND MASTER

The 95th Grand Master. Alfred F. Breslauer, a native-born Californian, took office as a man with a message. Immediately upon his
installation he announced the theme for his year as Grand Master:
"The Year of the Master Mason." The philosophy of this theme was
the motivating force of the activities for the year.
The Grand Master brought Grand Lodge closer to the individual
Master Mason. The Master Mason was urged to attend Grand Lodge
and •See it in operation. He was given the opportunity to attend Special
Communications of the Grand Lodge in his home area, as regional
meetings celebrating historical even.ts were scheduled throughout the
state. These sectional meetings also gave the Grand Master the opportunity to "democratize" Grand Lodge by giving the individual Mason
the opportunity to know intimately the officers of the Grand Lodge.
While giving prominence to the importance of the Master Mason,
the Grand Master likewise tried to impress upon the individual Mason
his responsibility to the Craft. He emphasized the reciprocal obligation
of a Mason to at.tend his Lodge and actively participate in the a.ffairs of
the constituent Lodge as well as the statewide Masonic activities of
Grand Lodge. This was .the message of the Grand Master, not merely
evidenced by a formal pronouncement at the beginning of his term, but
energetically supported by his activities ducing the entire year, so that
the words of !!he message became a reality.
The busy year which accomplished the purposes of The Year of the
Master Mason was in a great measure made possible by the rich
Masonic background and experience which Grand Mas.ter Breslauer
brought to the office. His seventeen years as an Inspector, his service
as a member on Public School and Grand Lodge Week Activities
Committees. his authorship of the Master\s Handbook. and numerous
o~her Masonic activities, enabled him to put into action some of his
theories for the advancement of Masonry.
This same Masonic experience also assisted in making the I 12th
Grand Lodge Communication a meaningful, efficient, and well directed
session. The briefing session for new attendants at Grand Lodge, rhe
tiiming of reports and important items of business, the distribution to
the Lodges of recommendations of the Grand Master prior to the session .
the creation of a fair system of computing multiple non-ballot votes. all
bore evidence of his years of Masonic experience.
This biographical sketch should contain some of the statis.tical facts
of his personal life. civic activities, and the Masonic experience com-

2

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

3

prising the backgro und which Most Worshi pful Alfred F . Breslau er
brought to his office as Grand Master :
Born, August 26, 1898, Reddin g. Californ ia.
Educate d, Pacific Heights Gramm ar School and Lowell High School.
San Francis co ; Univers ity of Califor nia-Bo alt Hall of Law. Admitted to the Bar in 1922.
Married , Marian Joseph in 1931. Daught er, Kathryn ; son, Alfred F., Jr.
After death of wife Marian , married Margar et Slate. Son, Bruce.
Family resides in Berkeley, Californ ia.
Raised-Sta1.1r King Lodge No. 344, April 25, 1923.

I. EoWARD H . SIEMS. Grand Secreta ry of the M .'.W .'. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepte d Masons of the State of Californ ia, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcri pt of the proceed ings of that body a t its one-hun dred twelfth
Annual Commu nication , commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monda y, the 25th day of Septem ber, A . L. 5961. and termina ted on
Friday. the 29th day of Septem ber, A . L. 5961.

Worshi pful Master -1930.
Inspect or of 43rd Masoni c District 1931 to 1948.
Membe r, Grand Lodge GI"ievances Commi ttee 1948 to 1957.
Elected Junior Grand Warde n-Sept ember 1957.
Elected Senior Grand Warde n-Octo ber 1958.
Elected Deputy Grand Master -Octob er 1959.
Membe r. Grand Lodge Week Activities Commi ttee-19 47 to 1956.
San Francis co Chairm an, Public Schools Week Observ ance.
Trustee , Masoni c Homes of Califor nia-195 7 to 1960.
Trustee , Californ ia Masoni c Memori al Templ e-1957 to 1960.

'

Author of "THE MASTER 's HANDBOOK"-lst Edition 1941-F ifth Edition (Revise d) 1958.
Membe r (33° ), San Francis co Bodies, Scottish Rite; served as Wise
Master of the Rose Croix; and, in 1946 as Venera ble Master of the
Lodge of Perfecti on.
Co-Aut hor, Californ ia Small Loan Act.
Membe r, Admini strative Commi ttee in State Bar Associa tion of California.
Membe r, Commonwealt'h Club of Californ ia.
Membe r, Public Educati on Society.
Membe r, Californ ia Historic al Society.
Served 30 years as teacher and Superin tendent of Sherith Israel Religious School.

'

I have hereunt o append ed my
official signatu re and have affixed
the seal of the M .'. W .'. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepte d
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secreta ry. this second day of
Novemb er, in the year of Light,
five thousan d nine hundred and
sixty one.

PROCEED I NGS

of

THE M:.W:.GRAND LODGE
of

111rtt auh Arrrptrh i1!1asnns
OF TH E

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS
112TH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE
CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 A.O. 1961 , A.L. 5961
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 A.O. I 96 1, A.L. 5961
Copyright 1961 by Grand Lodge F, & A. M. of California
Printed in the United Sta tes of Ame rica. All rights in thi$ book are reserved.
No part t hereof may be reproduced in a ny manner whohoever wit hout written
permission from the Grand Lodge of Ca l i fo rni~ . ew:cept tho.t quototions moy
be embodied in reviews by such other G rand J urisdictions as hove been
recognized officially by this Grand Lodge. For informa tion address Gro nd
Secretory, 1111 California Street , San Fra ncisco 8, Ca lifornia.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

7

ONE HUND RED TWELF TH
ANNU AL COMM UNICA TION
The Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of Californ ia conmmen ced its One Hundred Twelfth Annual
Commun ication in the Californi a Masonic Memoria l Temple on Sep~
tember 25th, A . L. 5961, at I 0 a.m.
OFFICER S OF THE GRAND LODGE

Master
Master
R.' . W . · .Guv B. MIZE.............. .......... .............. ......Deputy Grand
Warden
R. •• W . ·.IRA W. COBURN .............. .............. ..........Senior Grand
Warden
R.'.W .'. ELMER W. HEALD............................ ..... _Junior Grand
v .·.W.'.ART HUR M. WARREN ......................................Grand Treasurer
V. ·. w .·. EDWARD H. S1EMs..............................................Grand Secretar y

M .· .w.·.ALF RED F. BRESLAU ER .............. .............. ..............Grand

v .·.w.·.DoN ALD G. CAMPBELL....... .................... ........... Grand Lecturer
v.·. R ...CLARENCE REIDENBACH .......... .............. ............Grand Chaplain
W . ·.CLARE B. CAMPBE LL.............. ............Assistan t Grand Lecturer

N. RrcH ARDS .............. ... .......Assistan t Grand Lecturer
W . ' . ARTHUR J. l<AHN ....... .............. .......... A ssistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.RALPH W. COLLINS . .............. .......... Assistan t Grand Lecturer
W . •• W. BEN SoRRELL S ............................ . Assistan t Grand Lecturer
W.'.MYR ON SMITH ... . .............. .............. .............. ..... ..... Grand Orator
r
W.'.PAU L A. PFLUEGE R..... .............. .....Assistan t Grand Treasure
y
W. '.HENRY D. OuPHAN T. .............. .......Assistan t Grand Secretar
W. ·.CHARLE S BECKER.............. ....... .............. .............Grand Marshal
W . '.DANIEL M . CAMERO N .............. ............ Grand Standard Bearer
w.· .ORAN w. PALMER .............. .............. ........ Grand Sword Bearer
W. ·.JAMES C. N1sBET.............. .............. ........... ... Grand Bible Bearer
W. ·.CHARLE S W ARREN .............. .............. ......Senior Grand Deacon
W.'.VER NE W. HENDRIX.............. .......... ........ Junior Grand Deacon
W.'.THO MAS W. THURMA N .............. ........ ..Senior Grand Steward
w.· .EUGENE P. }IJINIL............................ ......Junior Grand Steward
nt
W. ·. PAUL R. NICHOLS.............. .............. .............. .. Grand Pursuiva
t
w.·.HAR OLD MuELLE R.............. .............. .............. ....Grand Organis
Tiler
w.· .DAVID WRIGHT.... ............... .............. .... .............. .....Grand

W.' .HAROLD

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
PAST GRAND OFFICERS

p AST GRAND MASTERS
M.·.w.·.cHARLEs ALBERT ADAMs
M: .w: .LEoN o. WmTsELL
M: .w: .LwYD E. WILsoN
M: . w: .LESLIE E. WooD
M:.w:.JoHN R. MooRE
M:.w:.EDwARD H. SrnMs
M:.w:.Loms c. DRAPEAU
M:.w:.ARTHUR M. WARREN
M: .w: .FRANK HARWELL, JR.
M. ·.w.·.HENRY c. CLAUSEN
M.-.w:.EDGAR v. STEWART, JR.
M:.w:.L. HAROLDANDERsoN
M .·.w.·.LEo E. ANDERsoN
M:.w:.PmL N. MvERs
M:.w:.JoE L. SHELL

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

APPOINTMENTS
The Grand Master announced the following appointments to fill
Committee vacancies:
On Policy and General Purposes Lloyd E . Wilson. Past Grand
Master, Edgar V. Stewart, Jr .. Past Grand Master, and Theodore
Meriam, Grand Orator of the 1959 Communication .
On Credentials James K. Wilson.
On Charters Martin Ortlieb.
The Grand Secretary announced that the Deputy Grand Master had
appointed Adolph H. Franzen, Harold S . Morrison and Louis L. Cunningham to serve as the Committee on Distribution.

TELEGRAMS SENT
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send an appropriate telegram to Assistant Grand Lecturer Raymond G. Taylor
a nd to each of the absent Past Grand Masters.

TELEGRAMS RECEIVED
PAST GRAND LECTURER
v:.w:.ELBERTW. DAVIS
One thousand four hundred forty-six officers and representatives
from 684 chartered Lodges and 7 Lodges under dispensation, 1156 Past
Masters, and 23 distinguished guests from other jurisdictions were
reported a s present, and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was
opened in ample form, following which the Flag of our Country was
received.

The Grand Secretary reported having received telegrams of congratulation from the following:
Past Grand Master Oscar Lawler
Past Grand Master Chester H. Warlow
The Grand Lodge of Japan
International Order of Job's Daughters of California

10

11

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DEVOTIONAL SERVICE

says that "the valleys are covered over with grain; they shout for joy.
they also sing."

CORN, WINE AND OIL
Psalm 23:5; Psalm 104:15
THE VERY REVEREND CLARENCE REIDENBACH, D.D.

Grand Chaplain
During my year as Grand Chaplain, I have heard a good deal about
corn. wine and oil. These symbols are familiar and important in Masonry. I have been impressed and intrigued by them. I decided that I
wanted to do some thinking and research on the subject. In addition
to being important in Masonry. there is a good deal about these symbols
in the Bible. Moreover. the ideas that they stand for are important in
life.
Corn, wine and oil were staple crops. They were something that
the people had a good supply of. and they had them year after year.
We think in terms of those things that are at •hand in our daily lives.
The ancient Hebrews used these everyday things as offerings to their
God. What better offerings can we make than to give of what is important to us personally? Common things, also, take on a new meaning
when they are consecrated to God. What is holy and what belongs to
practical living become one. They are not forever separated in two
different worlds, These symbols came out of living nature. There is
something mysterious about life, and it is good for us to think of how
close we are brought to the great mystery of life by the things that we
call common because they are close at hand, but which are not so common after all. These fruits of nature were made holy by being offered
to God, and they were also used to make holy the lives of the worshippers. Holy, by the way, means hallowed or sacred, but it is also
the modern form of the old Anglo-Saxon word halig, which meant
whole or healthy. Whatever makes us holy is supposed to make us
healthy in spirit.
The corn was not merely what we call corn. which is Indian corn
or maize. Maize is an Indian word. Our Pilgrim and Puritan fathers
were helped to eat better because the Indians taught them how to grow
and utilize maize. Corn primarily means grain. In England, the word
refers to wheat; in Scotland and Ireland, it refers to oats. In Bible times,
it referred to wheat and some other grains. People differ, and their
differences do not always lead to trouble.
Corn and bread are, naturally. mentioned often in the Bible. We
can all remember how Joseph had grain stored up against the seven
years of famine. In Deuteronomy l l : 14, God promises his people that.
if they will keep his commandments, he will "give the rain of your
land in its season, the former rain and the latter rain, that thou mayest
gather in thy grain, and thy new wine, and thine oil." Psalm 65:13

Com or grain refers to nourishment. It was a basic food, as corn
and frijoles are basic foods in Mexico today. Bread has come to signify
all food, as when we speak of our daily bread. Psalm I 04: 15 speaks
of "wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face
to shine, and bread that strengtheneth man's ·heart." The Pilgrims, at
their first Thanksgiving, were basically thankful for their crops. There
is the story of an old woman who lived to be one hundred years old.
The reporters went to ask her to what she attributed her long life. She
gave a classic reply. She said, "Vittles." We cannot discount victuals.
In this life, we cannot get very far away from food, and we cannot,
therefore, actually get away from the source of all life and food.
Corn is a symbol of the solid things of life. It stands for necessities,
foundation factors. There are, for instance, basic values: to make the
most of oneself, to have a good work. to maintain a good home, to be
sensitively aware of the people around us in our human environment, to
be sensitively aware of our total environment, God. There are solid
and basic virtues, the kinds of virtues that we Masons exalt: truth,
honesty, honor, temperance, prudence. fortitude, justice, brotherly love.
These are the bread, meat, and potatoes of personality and character.
There are solid men, like George Washington, so greatly honored by
our country and also in Masonic history. He hardly seems to have had
genius, like Jefferson and Hamilton. but he had a mind that saw things
steadily and saw them whole. He was a man who could say that it would
require little ·beyond common sense and common honesty to make ours
a great and prosperous nation. He was noted for his courage and his
character.
We now come to the wine. If I were of the same mind that I used
to be, I would at this point make a pitch about prohibition. But I shall
not do that. I do not believe that it would work. Alcohol. by the way,
is only one of the causes of alcoholism. I am an honorary member of
Alcoholics Anonymous, and I have known hundreds of rhem. They are
nervous, and have severe emotional problems; these facts are basic in
their alcoholism. Of course. I believe in control. Temperance is one of
our Masonic virtues. The Bible also discusses excess. That leads to all
sorts of distressing human problems.
The Hebrew wines were light wines. A distinction was made between wine and strong drink. 0£ course. wine can cause trouble; one of
the worst cases of alcoholism is the "wino". That is probably because it
is relatively cheap and also. I think. because of its sugar content. The
alcoholic can go longer on it without eating, and that causes much of the
trouble. But the idea among the Hebrews was to restrain themselves
to light drinking.

GRA ND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

12

13

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The use of wine was practically universal. The book of Second
Maccabees says: "It is hurtful to drink wine or water alone, but wine
mingled with water is pleasant." The Twenty-third Psalm says: "My
cup runneth over," and that referred , no doubt. to the wine that was
served to the guest. Wine came under the head of refreshment. We
Masons believe in refreshment; we are called, on occasion. from labor
to refreshment. There must be labor in our lives, but there must be refreshment as well as labor. I remind you that the 104th Psalm speaks
of "wine that maketh glad the heart of man."
I am strong for making people glad and merry. and I like it that we
have a symbol that suggests the joyful side of life. People do not laugh
and play enough. Laughter is a fine medicine for the soul. It spreads
joy and good will. I have noticed, over the years, that the people who
are most popular in any social group are the jolly ones. The glum ones
are mostly on the sidelines. I feel that I have a fundamental duty to make
people happy. If they are happy. they have less trouble in being good.
Good people should be genial people; if they are not. they are not the
best kind of recommendation for goodness. I sympathize with the little
boy who prayed that God would make all bad people good and all
good people easy to live with. Humorless people get old too fast, and
they are all too often a source of danger to others.
Of course. we need more than wine to make the heart glad. We need
decent and stable lives. We need to be free from regrets and guilt
feelings . We need to know what we are doing well enough to have
poise. We need a sense of accomplishment and of being worth while.
We need to be concerned about others enough to keep our minds from
dwelling too much on ourselves. We need faith. which is another word
for confidence. The most inclusive and stabilizing faith is our faith in
God.
Now we come to the oil. It was olive oil. I am glad that it was not
petroleum. That would not smell so good, and the struggles over oil fields
would not be so very pleasant to contemplate. Olive oil was very important, and it had many uses. It was used in cooking food. for lighting and
for making cosmetics. It had medicinal purposes. Isaiah 1 :6 speaks of the
wounds of the people because they had not been obedient to their God:
"There are wounds, bruises. and fresh stripes: they have not been
closed, neither bound up, neither softened with oil." The good Samaritan poured oil and wine on the wounds of ehe wayfarer who had been
beaten and robbed. Of course. oil was used for religious purposes.
Genesis 28 : 18 tells what Jacob did after his dream at Bethel: "Jacob
rose up early in the morning . and he took the stone that he had put
under his head, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top
of it." Those set aside for places of leadership would be consecrated
by being anointed with oil.

Oil. as well as wine, was a symbol of joy. Isaiah 61 :3 speaks of the
oil of joy taking the place of mourning. Once more, let me cite Psalm
I 04: 15. It speaks there of ~he oil to make man's face to shine. Oil was
used to protect the skin against the weather. It was used also because
they thought that it beautified the face ; it made the face to shine. That
looked good to them. And this applied to men.
Oil was particularly a part of glad feasts . The good host had a
supply of oil with which to anoint his guests. The oil also had perfu me
in it. !hat helped. Proverbs 27: 9 says: "Oil and perfume rejoice the
h~art . . ~he grea~ Twenty-third Psalm says: "Thou anointest my head
with 011. We still use oil on our heads. The barber puts in on. There
is a kind of oil of which a little dab'll do you. Two dabs are dangerous.
Oil is a symbol of smooth and friendly relations. lack o f friction.
We pour oil on the troubled waters. We know that we have to use
just the right kind of oil in our automobile engines. I once heard a
Negro preacher compare life to an old Ford car. It was one of my
unforgettable sermons. He had a lot of good points. One of them was
derived from the oil: life among people had to be smooth. There had
to be brotherly love and harmony. As a matter of fact. we need to be
free from friction within. Fears and guilt feelings can rub us raw. And,
of course, if. we do not have harmony with our fellow human beings.
we are ·h eading for mutual destruction .
Well, it takes more than oil to make the face really shine. The light
comes from the inside out. Love will make the face to shine. I marry
a lot of people. They talk with me in preparation for their marriages.
!hey a~e ~ ?appy lot, and their faces do shine. One of the greatest days
m my lifetime was Armistice Day, in 1918. The people poured out from
their homes to be together. It was like one great prayer meeting of
thanksgiving. Everyone was jubilant. I have never at an y other time
s~en so many faces shining so much. I would like to see it again some
time. The sense that one has lived up to t'he dictates of his own conscience can give the heart and the face a glow. Psalm 15: 7 says: "Thou
hast loved righteousness, and hated wickedness; therefore God, thy God,
hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fello ws." We can
remember, a·lso, how the face of Moses shone when he ca me down
from the mount, because he had been with God.
Life has various sides. There is what we call the solid and substantial. There is that which is light and joy ful. There is that which is
sublime. We really want to have these various interests mixed in their
due proportions. In Masonry. we have the variou s sides represen ted
by our symbols. We have more than one symbol. We want more than
a one-sided life. We have the corn, and the wine, and the oil. I hope
that we can have th e great realities represented to us by our symbols.
I hope that really you may have the nourishment of the corn . the refreshment of the wine, and the joy of the oil.

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

GRAN D MAST ER'S MESS AGE
ALFRED

F. BRESLA UER, Grand Master

I 12th
Welco me, my Brethre n, Maste r Mason s all. to this, the
e
prepar
I
As
nia!
Annua l Comm unicati on of the Grand Lodge of Califor
prehave
who
s
Master
Grand
94
to write this messag e I wonde r if the
conceded me in Califor nia have approa ched this task with the same
in
year
this
lished
accomp
been
has
what
to
as
n
concer
cern as I have,
and
ed
advanc
our Jurisdi ction, concer n as to whethe r M1a sonry has
sure that
grown in Califor nia and Hawai i. There is one thing I am
passes
year
the
that
,
namely
upon,
all my predec essors have agreed
office
in
d
installe
sooner
no
are
you
that
by all too fast. It seems
year.
the
of
nts
lishme
accomp
the
record
to
on
called
than you are
h
althoug
and
Even though this year may have passed with great speed
here
be
must
record
the
,
I may have some concer n about the results
with the
set forth. The activiti es for this Mason ic Year 1960-1 961.
and not
history
past
now
are
on,
unicati
Comm
l
except ion of this Annua
them to
t
recoun
will
I
So
time.
this
at
ation
modific
or
change
subjec t to
as to
them
judge
you as they occurr ed and will let you and the future
their merits.
the
Every Mason ic ceremo ny is preced ed by an act of homag e to
our
give
we
and
ion
except
no
is
on
unicati
Deity. Our Annua l Comm
service
first attenti on after the openin g ceremo nies to the devotio nal
this
in
must
e
of the Grand Chapla in. Your Grand Master likewis
Suthe
to
de
gratitu
his
s
expres
openin g paragr aph of his messag e
the
during
favors
ent
benefic
His
for
se
preme Archite ct of the Univer
of
duties
the
on
carry
to
d
enable
been
have
I
past and previou s years.
s or
schism
no
been
have
There
ess.
happin
and
health
in
my office
s at all
serious dispute s in the ranks of Mason ry. Harmo ny prevail
ed
exhibit
spirit
al
fratern
the
levels of Mason ry in our Jurisdi ction and
the
for
well
augers
i
Hawai
and
nia
by the Master M asons in Califor
. He
future. For all this your Grand Master offers his gratefu l prayer
"All
reads:
is remind ed of a hymn which he sang as a boy that in part
oh,
Lord,
the
thank
so
good gifts around us come from Heave n above.
good."
thank the Lord, for all His works are
Good
A source of additio nal gratitu de to the Great Giver of All
en
Brethr
of
r
numbe
large
that
of
today
here
ce
is found in the presen
and
s
burden
the
who for so many years have been prepar ed to share
Loyal
enjoy the pleasur es inciden t to each Annua l Comm unicati on.
and
Lodge
Grand
of
rs
membe
e
longtim
and devote d Mason s are those
MasGrand
Past
the
to
only
not
refer
I
its hard-w orking Comm ittees.
of their
ters, who are here in goodly numbe r to give us the benefit

GRANO LODGE O P CALIFO RNIA

15

Master s
vast experie nce, knowle dge and wisdom , but also to the Past
I
years.
many
for
labors
our
in
and Inspec tors who have partici pated
in
on
unicati
Comm
r
anothe
to
them
e
welcom
am thankf ul that I can
nia.
this beautif ul and impres sive sanctu ary of Free Mason ry in Califor
and
en,
Brethr
of
There are so many familia r faces among this host
I
them.
with
hip
friends
I welcom e the opport unity of renewi ng my
who
es,
entativ
Repres
and
s
Master
also see before me many new faces,
assume
have come for the first time. I welcom e you in your desire to
May
Lodge.
Grand
in
life
ic
Mason
active
an
of
honors
the burde.n s and
come
to
years
you continu e your interes t in Grand Lodge for many
ic caand earn the satis faction that comes from a long , a ctive Mason
have
who
s
Mason
Master
of
faces
reer. I see among you also the
the
at
ns
functio
ction
Jurisdi
this
in
ry
Mason
come to observ e how
Grand
your
is
this
s,
Mason
r
Maste
level.
ve
executi
and
top legislat ive
demoLod~e, the_ delega tes to which have been chosen by you in true
Masthe
Lodges
tuent
Consti
cratic fashion . You have elected in your
ication
ommun
C
this
at
ate
deliber
will
ters and Repres entativ es who
repreand cast their votes on behalf of the Consti tuent Lodges they
extend
I
when
Lodge
Grand
of
r
membe
every
for
speak
I
sent. I know
to you the hand of warm, fratern al welcom e.
t a
The obligat ion of the Grand Master to prepar e and presen
manboth
is
Lodge
Grand
of
on
messag e at the Annua l Comm unicati
ons
datory and volunt ary. The manda tory d uty stems from the provisi
to
Master
of our Califor nia Mason ic Code which require the Grand
and
ction,
Jurisdi
the
make a report of the conditi on of Mason ry in
There
also to make recomm endatio ns for better ment of the Craft.
certain
,
on
unicati
Comm
this
to
s
previou
have been prepar ed by me,
tuent
recomm endatio ns wb.ich have been circula ted among the Consti
presen t
will
e
messag
This
.
eration
consid
and
review
their
for
Lodges
ry
~ few _ mor~ recomm endatio ns and a report on the status of Ma:lOn
i.
m Califor nia and Hawai

MEETI NGS FOR THE GRAND MAST ER

unity
. !he volunt ary portion of this messag e deals with the opport
for
iation
apprec
his
writing
in
s
expres
to
ter
it gives the Grand Mas
Masand
officers
by
him
to
ed
extend
sses
kindne
and
the many favors
pleasur e
ter M~s~ns throu~~out the entire Jurisdiction. It was my
i. It
Hawai
and
nia
Califor
of
and privile ge to v1s1t almost every part
every
with
even
or
Lodge
every
w~s ~ot possibl e for me to meet with
al limiD1~trict , not fro~ a lack of desire to do so but from the physic
underreadily
is
This
ns.
functio
Master
Grand
the
which
tation under
as
ted,
reques
is
standa ble when we realize that the Grand Master
ying
tone-la
corners
more
and
each yea r passes, to officiate at more

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ceremonies and public building dedications. The administrative and
executive duties of the office become more numerous and complex. The
visit of any Grand Master to a Lodge or District is an important event.
The Brethren of the Constituent Lodges look forward to hearing a
message from the Grand Master and greeting him personally. In a
Jurisdiction as large as California. with approximately 243,000 Master
Masons, 705 Lodges and 178 lnspectoral Districts. it is of great
assistance to have a consolidation of districts for meetings. Those
Lodges or Districts which traditionally ·have had separate meetings
for the Grand Master should join, if possible, with other Lodges and
Districts. An outstanding example of this cooperation occurred this
year in the 5th Division. consisting of 47 Inspectoral Districts. comprising approximately 190 Lodges. This Division is located in Los
Angeles and the surrounding area and includes about 80.000 Master
Masons. If the Grand Master devoted an evening to each District
it would take approximately two months of the Grand Master's time
to visit these Districts. With the cooperation of the Masters of the
Lodges. the Inspectors of the Districts. and the Assistant Grand Lecturer of the Division, a series of six Sunday morning Breakfasts was
arranged. The Grand Master thus had the opportunity to visit every
lnspectoral District in the 5th Division (except two located east of
the Sierra Nevada Mountains), and had the opportunity to talk to
and greet personally hundreds of Master Masons who attended these
Breakfasts. Similar cooperation was experienced in other parts of
the Jurisdiction. A particularly outstanding Breakfast was the one
held at Anaheim at which 900 Master Masons were present. This
was the .first time such a Breakfast had been held in Orange County.
My sincere gratitude goes to the Brethren who have been so considerate
of the Grand Master.

THE YEAR OP THE MASTER MASON

16

It should not be a prerequisite for selection as Grand Master
that he be a person who has reached retirement. It would be helpful.
no doubt, if the Grand Master were not required to spend any time
to earn his livelihood and could devote every hour of his term to
Masonic activities. However. not all Grand Masters can do that.
nor should they be required to do so. Your present Grand Master,
the Deputy Grand Master, and Senior Grand Warden, were and
are actively engaged in their professions and business. The assistance
and cooperation of all Brethren to lighten the requirement of Lodge
visitations were and will be. I am sure, most welcome. This year the
assistance was outstanding and I am forever indebted for this aid.
I bespeak the same consideration for my successors.

17

It was most pleasing to the Grand Master to see so many Master
Masons present at these Breakfasts, receptions and ceremonies. Thcir
presence gave meaning and emphasis to the Year of the Master M ason,
which was the theme adopted for this year. My hopes and aspirations
for this year were set forth in the messages I wrote for the fou r
issues of the California Freemason for 1960-61. In the JanuaryMarch issue I told how the theme happened to be chosen and the
importance of the Master Mason in the Masonic framework. The
April-June issue carried the story of how this theme could be implemented by Grand Lodge, and what Grand Lodge and its officers
planned to do to make this year meaningful for the individual members. The next issue , July-September, pointed out what consti tuent
Lodges should do to enrich the objective. and contained specific suggestions for Lodge activities for the 2,500 Smiths. 2.000 Johnsons
and 1,400 Browns, among other Master Masons in this Jurisdict.ion. The final issue emphasized that this was not a one-way road
and ~he Master Mason had certain corollary obligations. The obligations of the Master Mason himself were spelled out in that article.
In order that the whole story be presented, I am taking the liberty
of attaching the articles referred to as exhibits to this message. It
would be presumptuous on my part to characterize the year as a
successful one. Only my Brethren can answer that inquiry. I did
find that many Lodges adopted the theme for their activities during
the year, and implemented the objectives in accordance w ith the suggestions of th~ Grand Master. If it has helped in any measure I
have been well repaid.
CONDITION OF CRAFT

What is the condition of the Craft in this year of the Master
Mason? Are we gaining or losing members? Are we gaining or
losing Lodges? What is our status financially? Are our Lodge Officers more proficient ritually? Are we making progress with our Masonic Education Program? Are we taking proper care of our aged
and our children? Do we still command the respect and admiration
of the non-Mason? Are we using proper and effective means of
communication to let the public generally know about the a ccomplishm~nts of Masonry?
The answers to these and many more questions will be found
in the reports and business transacted at this Annual Communication. The reports of the many committees will advise of the progress
made this year. The ·Grand Treasurer's Report will give you the
financial standing of the Grand Lodge and its various funds. We

18

PROCE EDING S OF THE

have no financial probl ems. The only substa ntial
debt is that of the
Maso nic Memo rial Temp le which has now been
reduced to $1.31 3.790.00. More and more Lodge s are qualif ying
for the Merit Roll
which accele rates the ultima te retire ment of this
debt. There is
one word of warni ng which might be menti oned
here. With the
many activi ties of Gran d Lodge and a membership
of almos t a quart er
of a million Maste r Maso ns, the expen se of opera
ting Gran d Lodg e
is a consid erable sum . Last year there was spent
for all Gran d
Lodge activi ties the sum of appro ximat ely $380, 000.00
. This amou nt
is obtain ed princi pally from the per capita levy
on the Const ituent
Lodge s. There is no denia l of the fact that the
purch asing powe r
of the dolla r is less today than previo usly. There
is also no denia l
of the fact that the cost o f opera ting all offices.
comm ercial or fraternal . is increa sing. O n the other hand, we have
small Lodg es in
this Jurisd iction with small treasu ries. Even l 0
or 15 cents on the
per capita levy of the Lodge 1s a consid erable sum
to such Lodge s.
I am not here critici sing any one partic ular activi
ty or specific expense. Wha t I am here sugge sting is that we
shoul d take a long.
search ing look at all expen ses and see if they a re
justified in relatio n
to other needs and activi ties. To parap hrase a
popul ar expre ssion:
" Is this expen diture neces sary? "
How is the Frate rnity doing nume rically ? The
repor t of the
Gran d Secre tary. which will be given this aftern
oon. will set out
in detail the sta tistics regar ding our memb ership
. It is unnec essary
for me to duplic ate this inform ation but I would
like to brie8y give
you some highlights from the statist ics. We have
again this year
reach ed an all-tim e high in numb er of memb ers.
As of June 30,
l 961 we had a total of 243,3 46 memb ers. This,
of course , mean t an
increa se over 1960, the net gain being l ,527 memb
ers. The total
numb er raised in 1961 was appro ximat ely 6,700
as comp ared with
appro ximat ely 6,800 for l 960.
In accor dance with the action of Gran d Lodge at
the 111 th Annual Comm uncia tion, six Lodge s were grant ed
Chart ers and were
duly const ituted this year. The last const itutio n
took place durin g
the Annu al Visit of the Grand Maste r to the
Hawa iian Island s
when , on July 29th, Koola u Lodge No. 801 was const
ituted in Hono lulu. It is intere sting to note that we have now
consti tuted appro ximatel y 800 Lodge s since the forma tion of the Grand
Lodge of Canfornia 112 years ago, and that future Lodge s
for some time will
be in the 800 brack et.
It was also my privil ege to grant Dispe nsatio ns
this year for
the institu tion of six Lodge s. These dispen sation
s, togeth er with
Yucca Valle y Lodge which was alread y worki ng
under Dispe nsatio n

GRAN D LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

19

at ~he start of this year, make a total of seven
Lodge s now acting
under Dispe nsatio n. The repor t of the Chart ers
Comm ittee will present to you for consi derati on the petitio n of six
of these Lodge s
which are seekin g cha rters at this Comm unica tion.
The Lodge s for
which Dispe nsatio ns were issued by your Grand
Maste r this year
are : The Gabil an Lodge at Salina s. M oreno Valle
y at Sunny mead ,
CamelJia at Temp le City, Simi V alley at Simi,
Conej o Valle y at
Thou sand Oaks . and Scept er at West Sacra mento
. From the foregoing surve y we may justly concl ude and be proud
of the fact that
Maso nry is still growi ng in the Jurisd iction and is
strong nume rically .
How are we doing rituall y? Here again you will
have the detailed repor t of the Gran d Lectu rer this aftern
oon. We are most
gratef ul to Divin e Provi dence for his recov ery and
the fact that he
is here with us at th is Annu;i] Comm unica tion.
We have the best
organ izatio n of any Gran d Lodg e for teach ing the
ritual. O ur system
of instru ction, from the Ritual Comm ittee, consis
ting of the Gran d
Lectu rer and Assis tant Grand Lectu rers, to the
178 Inspe ctors. and
from these Inspe ctors to the 705 indivi dual Lodge
s, has prove d its
worth and value. a nd ha s stood the test o f time.
Our Ritua l proficiency comp ares favor ably with any Gran d Lodge
and we may be
justly proud thereo f. In the final analy sis. the
respo nsibil ity rests
on the indivi dual officers of the Lodge . Every office
r shoul d take pride
in doing his work letter- perfec t. in a dignfi ed and
impre ssive mann er.
As your Grand Maste r stated , when he prepa red
the MAS TER' S
HAN DBO OK appro ximat ely twent y-one years ago.
"Ther e is nothing in Maso nry more impor ta nt than the Ritua l
when a Degre e is
being confe rred." We shoul d be ever vigila nt to
see that the high
stand ard we now have in this Jurisd iction , and
of which we are so
proud , is alway s maint ained .

VARIO US COMM ITTEE REPOR TS

The repor ts of the variou s comm ittees to be
prese nted durin g
the next four days will give a pictur e of the condi
tion of the Craft
in the Jurisd iction , in additi on to the financ ial, nume
rical and ritual istic aspec ts brie8y menti oned above . These comm
ittees are doing
most impor tant work and no one comm ittee shoul
d be single d out
above the others . Howe ver, I hope that you will pardo
n my highli ghting a few of the very impor tant achie vemen ts durin
g this Maso nic
Year. Publi c Schoo ls Week again exper ienced an
outsta nding presentati on . The theme was partic ularly signif icant
in this Year of the
Maste r Maso n in tha t attent ion was direct ed to the
teach er. the individua l upon whom the whole struct ure of public
educa tion depen ds.
just as Maso nry depen ds on the Mast er Maso n.
The sloga n: ''The

20

PROCEED INGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Public School Teacher, Builder of Tomorro w's Leaders" was enthusiasticall y received . and many meetings honoring teachers were held
througho ut the Jurisdict ion.
Through the untiring efforts of the Endowm ent Board, the Constituent Lodges and the Officers thereof we again went "over the top."
This year the Master Masons of Ca lifornia contribu ted the magnificent sum of $645,453 .76 to the Endowm ent Fund, evidencin g continuing interest in our Masonic Homes for the Aged and the Children .
The Correspo ndence Committ ee, publishin g the Californi a Freemason, continue s to gain high praise from the other Masonic Jurisdictions for the quality of this publicati on. Our magazin e is one of the
outstand ing Masonic publicati ons in the w orld. The four issues this
year ma intained that high standard .
Masonic educatio n always moves slowly. This seems to be its
essential character istic. However , I feel that the Committ ee on Masonic Educatio n has made real progress this year. In addition to the
continue d distribut ion of the candidat es' booklets, there has been published a nd distribut ed to the Lodges a brochure comprisi ng three plans
for Masonic Educatio n. This has been a real step forward, and the
use of the brochure by the individua l Lodges will make Masonic Education a reality rather than merely a project. Excellen t regional meetings with well-info rmed panelists , held in various parts of the state,
have been of great assistanc e.
1

A new committe e. that of Masonic Informat ion , was created this
year for the purpose of proper dissemin ation of Masonic news to the
daily periodica ls througho ut Californ ia and Hawaii. Its formatio n
and work this year were in the nature of a n experime nt and a very
modest budget of $1.500. primarily to cover secretari al work, was
set up. The members of the Committ ee have given unstintin gly of
their time. and Masonry has received most favorable news coverage
in the press. The exhibit of the Committ ee at this Commun ication
shows some outstand ing example s of this favorable action. It is
planned to publish material which will be of assistanc e to the Constituent Lodges in the preparat ion of proper new releases to local
newspap ers. This Committ ee should become one of the most valuable
in Grand Lodge.
Through the question naire prepared by the Committ ee on the
Relation ship between Temple Associat ions and Constitu ent Lodges,
we have obtained a current roster of the Temple Associat ions existing
in our Jurisdict ion. The importan ce of this compilat ion is realized
when we learn that the total value of these Masonic Temples in this
Jurisdict ion is approxim ately $25.000,000. A study of importan t tax

21

problems involving Temple Associat ions is under way and the results
should be of valuable assistanc e to the Lodges.
After many years of planning . our Grand Lodge Library was
brought into existence this year in the Library and Museum Room on
the second floor of the Californ ia Masonic Memoria l Temple. There
are more than 2.000 volumes dealing with Masonic subjects. The Library Commiss ion is making a special effort to collect all possible Masonic Californ iana. It is hoped that in time we will have in our Library the finest collectio n of Masonic material dealing with the early
Masonic 'history of Californ ia and Hawaii. The Library Commiss ion
has also set up, for the first time in our jurisdicti on. a series of books
which are available on loan to all brethren . More than 1,000 Masonic
books are available for a three-we ek loan merely on request of a
Brother. The report of the Board of Library Commiss ioners will give
full detail of this fine project and work.
Californ ia and Hawaii have a rich heritage of early Masonic activity. It would be criminal if we did not take some steps to preserve
the documen ts, material. parapher nalia, furnishin gs . and memento s
which are approxim ately one hundred years old. A start 'h as been
made this year for the preserva tion of these irreplace able items. During the past years there have been many instances when valuable
items have been lost through fire and other casualtie s. Let us not be
dilatory in this matter. but act promptly , so that we may save these
historica l documen ts for future genera tions.
SPECIAL COMMUN I CATIONS AND OCCASIO NS

In addition to these matters whrch, with others, will be covered
in detail by the committe e reports. there have been certain outstand ing
celebrati ons during the year which deserve particula r mention. The
exhibit attached to this report shows the many times that Grand
Lodge convene d in Special Commun ication for Constitu tion of New
Lodges, for the purpose of laying cornesto nes for Masonic Temples ,
public schools and other buildings , the dedicatio n of Masonic Halls
and even for the dedicatio n of a public park. There were also four
dedicatio ns of public schools by the Grand Master or his represen tative.
On two occasion s Grand Lodge was convene d for the special purpose of re-laying cornersto nes . In each of these instances the original
cornersto ne was laid with Masonic ceremon ies one hundred years
previous .
The first of these events occurred on Novemb er 5, 1960, at the
century- old Columbi a Element ary School House in Columbi a . California . The original cornersto ne was laid by Columbi a Lodge No. 28

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

on November 1. 1860. The project to restore the school was started
about two years ago. and children and teachers throughout the state
contributed the money for the restoration of the building to its original
condition. The participation of Grand Lodge in this centennial celebration of the laying of t'hat cornerstone and the rehabilitation of the
school was evidence of our great support of public schools in America.

never held an office in a Masonic Lodge. Yet, as a Master Mason,
he brought honor to the Craft throughout the world.

On M ay 15, 1861 , the Grand Lodge of California met at Sacramento. California. On that day Grand Lodge was called off and at
the invitation of the seventh Governor of California. Brother Jdhn G.
Downey, a member of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42. marched to the
State Capitol to lay the cornerstone for that building. Almost one
hundred years to the day, namely on May I 3, I 961, Grand Lodge
again convened in Sacramento. Hundreds of Masons attended, and
clad in their white aprons. marched again to the State Capitol and,
at the invitation of the present Governor of California, re- laid the
cornerstone at a most impressive ceremony.
Masonry received most favorable comments in the press for these
events.
On Februa ry 3. 1961. a reception was held in El Centro by the
Imperia l Valley Officers Association for the Grand Master. This
event was given international and interstate significance, as the Grand
Master of Baja California, Most Worshipful Joaquin Aguilar Robles.
and the Grand M aster of Arizona, Most Worshipful Earl A . Spitler.
attended. Grand Lodge met in Special Communication and our visiting Grand Masters were received with due honors. Our Masonic relations with our neighboring Grand Lodges were strengthened by this
meeting.
A like interstate aspect occurred at the centennial celebration of
Lassen Lodge No. 149 at Susanville. California, on May 6, 1961. At
our invitation, the Grand Master of Nevada. Most Worshipful Stanley D. Sund een, and the Grand Master of Oregon , Most Worshipful
Julius M. Swanson. were in attendance and received with honors.
These meetings without doubt created a great interest in Masonry
in the areas involved.
As Grand Master, I participated in a very interesting ceremony
at Santa Rosa. California. Luther Burbank, w ho had gained worldwide fame as a horticulturist, had been a member of Santa Rosa Lodge
No. 57. On his death his gardens, which had been used for man.y of
his experiments with plants, were established as the Burbank Memorial Gardens. A request was made that there be a Masonic dedication
of these gardens, and your Grand Master. on May 19, 1961, ded'icated a plaque which was erected at the entrance to the gardens in
memory of Luther Burbank by his Masonic brethren. Luther Burbank

23

There was another centennial event which deserves special mention. On Washington's Birthday in 1861. Thomas Starr King gave
a n a ddress at Platt's H a ll in San Francisco. Although his topic was
" Washington, Father of His Country," the oration he gave was the
first of a great number which urged the citizens of California to keep
our state in the ranks of the Union. From that date on he traveled
throughout the State of California, and it is recognized that largely
through his efforts, California was saved for the Union. The physical
strain of these efforts resulted in his early death. He was Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge of California at the time of his death. His
remains were cremated and the ashes are contained in a marble sarcophagus in the churchyard of the First Unitarian Church, Geary and
Franklin Streets, San Francisco. Many years later, when the Hall of
Fame at Washington was suggested and each state was called upon
to name its two most illustrious sons, 'I1homas Starr King was named
by California as one.
On the centennial of that historic address, February 22, 1961,
your Grand Master placed a wreath at the statue of Thomas Starr
King in the Hall of Fame. Many legislators from our state were in
attendance, including the two California Senators, Brother Thomas
H . Kuchel and Brother Clair Engle. At the same time, Past Master
H al Curtis of Starr King Lodge No. 344, and an eminent authority on
the life of Thomas Starr King, placed a wreath at his sarcophagus in
San Francisco.
We should always remember one of rhe finest expresisons, significantly M asonic, which Thomas Starr King used, "Do not build
your denominational fences so high that you cannot shake hands
across the top of them."
Some years ago the Juvenile Court Institute was established by
juvenile court judges, members of the Masonic Order in Pennsylvania. Fellows of the Institute are those judges who have attended
one or more of the annual sesions held in connection with the Annual
Convention. During the last week in June, 1961, this convention of
the Annual Council of Juvenile Court Judges of the United States met
in San Francisco. Because of the Masonic bac kground leading to the
formation of this group, the Grand Lodge of California was host at
a breakfast to those attending the convention. Your Grand Master
brought the greetings of the Grand Lodge to those present and told
of the interest of Grand Lodge in aiding youth groups, and our con~
cern with the current problems faced by young people.

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

VISITS TO OTHER JURISDICTI ONS

in between the Grand Lodge of Japan, whiCh was formed approximately five years ago, and the Grand Lodge of California . It comes
about in this way: The Grand Lodge of the Philippine s was formed
in 1912 by three lodges, which were then under the Jurisdictio n
of California . When the Grand Lodge of Japan was crea ted it
was formed by Lodges under the Jurisdictio n of the Gra nd Lodge
of the Philippine s. On my visit to Japan I found that there were
many brethren a nd some officers of t'h e Grand Lodge of Japan who
are members of Lodges in California and hold Dual Membersh ip in
Lodges under the Grand Lodge of Japan. As the economic reports
show, Japan -is now enjoying the greatest industrial activity it has
ever had. It is hoped that Masonry will likewise expand. Our
Brethren in Japan connected with the Grand Lodge of Japan are
doing a wonderful missionary work and deserve every encourage ment and support. In order to insure s tability it is essential that
petitions be received from Japanese nationals in addition to applications from members of the Security Forces in Japan and affiliated
services. It will take a great deal of ~ffort to make the ideals and
purposes of Masonry so well known to the native-bor n Japanese
that they will seek admission into Masonry. They are making excellent progress. In a very s'hort period of time the Grand Lodge of
Japan has been officially recognized by practically every Grand Jurisdiction in the United States and the great majority of Jurisdictio ns
throughou t the world. Brother Togasaki, whose term as Grand Master was completed a short time before my arrival. was born in San
Francisco and I was privileged to present to him the official greetings
of the Mayor· of the City and County of San Francisco set forth in
a resolution adopted by the Boa rd of Superviso rs. Although the
Lodges were dark on account of the summer period, it was my pleasure to meet with most of the Grand Lodge officers. I particularl y
enjoyed meeting the Master of the Constitue nt Lodge of Kyoto,
Brother Yokoyam a, and visiting with him and his family in his home.

Visits were made. as usual, to other Grand Jurisdictio ns. The
Deputy Grand Master attended the Annual Communic ation of the
Grand Lodge of Washingt on and also the Grand Masters' Conference at Washingt on , D.C. The Senior Grand Warden attended the
Annual Communic ation of the Grand Lodge of Arizona. Your Grand
M aster, in addition to attending the Grand Masters' Conferenc e at
Washingt on , D.C.. also attended the Centennia l Communi cation of
the Grand Lodge of Colorado at Denver, and the Annual Communi cation of the Grand Lodge of Oregon, at Portland . It was my pleasure, at the invitation of the Grand Masters' Conferenc e at Washington, D.C., to present a paper on the affirmative side of the question,
"Should this Conferenc e endeavor to organize an Internatio nal Masonic Conferenc e?". As usual, in accordanc e with the establishe d
rules of the Grand Masters' Conferenc e, no action was taken on
these proposals. although I extended an invitation to hold such an
internatio nal conferenc e at our beautiful Masonic Temple in San
Francisco, because San Francisco is a recognize d internatio nal center.
As Grand Masters have done in the past. I visited the Lodges in
the Hawaiian Islands. The kindness and courtesies extended to the
Grand Master and his family during this visit were without limit.
'Ilhere are now ten Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands, seven located in
the vicinity of Honolulu, on the Island of Oahu , and one on each of
the outlying islands. The total membersh ip of these Lodges as of
June 30, 1961, is slightly in ex·c ess of 3,000 members. I found Masonry flourishing there and the Lodges making good progress.
The visits of an Assistant Grand Lecturer or Grand Lecturer to
Hawaii are of inestimabl e value to our Lodges in that area and should
be continued .
After Hawaii, the Grand Master went on a postman's holiday.
He visited Japan with his family (at his own expense. of course)
to see how Masonry in Japan, and the Grand Lodge of Japan in
particular . w as progressin g. An unusual set of circumstan ces initiated
the trip. In 1959, while serving as Deputy Grand Master I was
invited to attend a luncheon in San Francisco for the Deputy Grand
Master of Japan who was then visiting here. The Deputy from Japan
was Brother George Togasaki, and during luncheon we discovered
that we had gone to Lowell High School together here in S an Francisco in 1915 and had not seen each other for 44 years. Brother
Togasaki urged me to come to Japan while either of us was serving
as Grand Master. My busy calendar was such that I had to delay
the possibility of a trip until my vacation time. There is a definite tie-

25

DISPOSITIO N OF GRAND MASTERS' PORTRAITS

By the action of the last Annual Communic ation, Brother Lloyd
E. Wilson, Past Grand Master and Past Grand Secretary. was retained as Assistant to the Grand Master. I requested Brother Wilson.
in addition to other assignmen ts. to carry out what had been adopted
at the I 959 Annual Communi cation in connection with the disposi~
tion of the Grand Masters' portraits. At that session it was deter~
mined to discontinu e the painting of the portraits of the future Grand
Masters, to substitu te therefor the photograp hs of all Past Grand
Masters in a suitable manner, and to return to the various home

26

27

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lodges the existing paintings of Past Grand Masters, with the exception of the painting of the first Grand Master, which hangs in
the Grand Master's office.
The portrait books with the photographs of the Past Grand
Masters have been -completed and are ready for examination at this
Communication. The photographs of future Past Grand Masters
will be added to the album each year. The oil paintings in the possession of Grand Lodge, consisting of approximately seventy-six pictures, have been offered to the Lodges to which the Grand Master
belonged. Fifty-two of the Lodges have requested that the portraits
be shipped to them or have indicated that they will be picked up at
Grand Lodge. Portraits have been offered to relatives in six cases
where they were known, and these have been accepted. We hope
to complete the d-i sposition of the remaining portraits at this session
of Grand Lodge. On display in the Registration Room are copies
of the photographs of the Grand Masters as published in the album.

regulations in a more complete form so as to include some of the
decisions and rulings which had not previously been incorporated.
At my suggestion, P.G.M. Leo E. Anderson undertook the rewriting
of the regulations. His revision met with my complete approval. and
it was then referred to the Grand Lodge Committee on Commercialism. This committee was of the opinion that the revision had improved and strengthened the regulations. I am attaching a copy
of the revised regulations as an exhibit to this message (Exhibit 13),
and ask the approval of the same by Grand Lodge. If approved, these
regulations should be distributed to the constituent Lodges and any
of the organizations referred to in the regulations.

TwoPOLD ADVANTAGE OP PLURAL MEMBERSHIP

In this message I have discussed the importance of protecting and
preserving our valuable historical materials, and have also in my recommendations discussed multiple memberships. It has occured to me that
there is a direct association between these two items which could
be used for the benefit of some of our constituent Lodges. During my
visits to the Lodges in the Mother Lode country, I was impressed with
their fine Masonic spirit and the enthusiastic participation of their
members in Lodge activities, but recognized the problem they face as
to size of membership because of the limited population of their respective areas. I believe there is a clear necessity of giving both moral and
actual assistance to these veteran Lodges, representing the cradle of
Masonry in California. I am confident that there are many Master
Masons who would like to have a part in maintaining these historic
landmarks. What better way is there than for Master Masons to seek
plural membership in one of these Lodges. There are a number of Lodges
which have less than l 00 members, and a few with even less than
50 members. It is recommended that Master Masons visit these Lodges
and become acquainted with the wonderful Masonic spirit which exists
there, and by such visits the Master Mason can determine in which
Lodge to seek plural membership.
NEW COMMERCIALISM REGULATION

As set forth in Decision No. 1, the Grand Master was called
upon to render an opinion regarding the permitted activities of DeMolay and other youth groups. After the rendition of the opinion,
it was suggested that it might be desirable to rewrite the rules and

RELIEF To iCuBAN MASONS

I need not re-count here what has happened to the institutions
of freedom in Cuba. When dictatorship becomes supreme, Masonry
is a target for persecution. A number of our Masonic brethren from
Cuba were fortunate in being able to reach a place of safety in
Florida. We who live here in a land of freedom should be prepared to assist our brethren and their families who are forced to
flee from persecution in their native land, without any of their belongings or property, and seek refuge here. Our obligation to those
brethren who reached Florida required immediate action. Accordingly, the Grand Master directed that the sum of $1,000.00 be forwarded from the Grand Lodge of California to assist in alleviating
the plight of these families in Florida. If the condition continues
for any lengtlr of time, it may be necessary for us to make further
contributions.
RECOMMENDATIONS

Six recommendations of the Grand Master, which he deemed necessary or expedient for the welfare of the Craft, have been circulated among the Lodges. together with the resolutions to be considered at this Communication. In order that the record may be
complete I will list these recommendations here.

I.
The Brethren in the agricultural communities of the state find
that it is 'impossible to leave their crop duties during the last week
in September. In addition, the owners of businesses and persons
engaged in accounting or bookkeeping services find the last week of
the month most inconvenient for them. It has been suggested, rather
generally throughout the entire Jurisdiction, that the Annual Communication be held during the second week in October, w'hich was
the time set for the Communication from 1864 to 1955 - 91 years.
There will always be someone inconvenienced by the time fixed

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for the Communicatio n no matter what time is chosen. However. I
have sensed in my travels throughout the state a definite request
for a change at this time.
I have been advised by the Masonic Temple Trustees that no
firm commitments have been made for the rental of our facilities for
the second week in October, 1962.
In order to bring the matter before the Fraternity for consideration. I recommend that Section I 01 of the Constitution be amended
to read as follows: "101. Annual. Each Annual Communication shall
be held in the City and County of San Francisco commencing on the
second Monday of October at ten o'clock A .M . provided. however.
that any Annual Communicatio n may be held at any other place in
the State of California upon the adoption by this Grand Lodge at any
previous Communicatio n by a five-sixths vote of a resolution so
providing."

II.
My second recommendatio n is a conditional one. In the event
the first recommendatio n to change the date of the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge to the second week in October is acted
upon favorably. the Lodges whose Stated Meetings fall in the second week of .the month might be concerned with the conflict caused
thereby. It is. therefore. my recommendatio n that we eliminate any
possible conflict by providing that the Stated Meeting should be
held the following week. as we do when the Stated Meeting falls
on a legal holiday.
To accomplish this. Section 343. C.M.C .. should be amended by adding after the words " legal holidays" the following: "or during the
Annual Communicatio n of the Grand Lodge." The Section will then
read as follows:
Section 1. The stated meeting of this Lodge shall be
holden .
. in each month. at .
o'dock .
. m.; except that in any month when the
regular meeting date shall fall on .
. or .
. legal holidays. or during the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge. the Stated Meeting
shall be holden on the .
. of
month at.
. m.

III.
The Office of Judge Advocate is a relatively recent one in the list
of Grand Lodge Officers. It was created by legislation adopted in 1953.
For several years there was no one appointed to this office. No appointment was made for this year. and the office has remained vacant during
my term as Grand Master. When your Grand Master wanted the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

29

advice or assistance of competent Masonic lawyers he sought and received such advice from the Chairman and members of the Jurisprudence
Committee and other qualified Brethren. My experience this year leads
me to the conclusion that the Office of Judge Advocate is unnecessary.
With members of the Jurisprudence Committee located in various
parts of the state. there will always be some one member available to
the Grand Master. All members of the Jurisprudence Committee are
either judges or attorneys and well qualified to advise t'he Grand Master
when requested.
To accomplish this elimination of the Office of Judge Advocate the
following changes should be made in the California Masonic Code:
Section 8, giving the titles of those who compose Grand Lodge,
should be amended by striking from said Section the title of "Judge
Advocate."
Section 157, describing the duties of the Judge Advocate. should be
repealed in its entirety.

IV.
One of the hardest working committees of Grand Lodge is the committee referred to as the Committee on Lodge Financing. Actually. its
scope of activities has nothing to do directly with the i~come a~d e~­
penditure of Lodge funds, except in a few instances. This committee is
concerned with those Lodges which own and operate real property or
have a Temple Association carrying on such activity. The name of the
committee is misleading and is often confused with the Committee on
Finance. For this reason it is my recommendatio n that the name of the
committee be changed to " Committee on Temple Construction and
Operations."
The importance of the work of this committee is realized when we
consider that the value of property involved is approximately twentyfive million dollars. The work is constantly expanding. The committee
should be ready to advise Lodges and Temple Associations regarding
the benefit of incorporating as a non-profit corporation and the correct
procedures to accomplish this. Then there is the question of tax status
of the Temple Associations and the filing of the required tax returns.
All of this demands more time from a committee already doing a full
time job. In addition, the number of Masonic Temples is increasing
each year.
These facts impel me to recommend that the size of the committee
be increased from 9 to 11 members. It is also my suggestion that because
of the technical legal questions regarding incorporation. and the tax
problems involved. that the personnel of the committee include. several
attorneys and accountants. It is, therefore. my recommendatio n that
Section 192, C.M.C.. be amended by striking the words "on Lodge

30

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Fiinancing" in line 4 and adding the words "on Temple Construction
and Operations" a fter the words "on Charters" in line 5.
Section 176, C .M.C .. should be amended by striking the words
"Lodge Financing" in line 4 and substituting the words " Temple Construction and Operations."
Section 200, C.M.C .. should be amended by striking the words "on
~odge Financing" in the title and in line 5 and substituting the words
on Temple Construction and Operations" in both places.

v.
It has been called to my attention that Temple A ssociations and
Lodges owning real property are handicapped by a decision adopted by
Grand Lodge in 1959. Section 199-i, C.M.C.
In that year this Grand Lodge determined that a department store
leasing the ground floor space of Temple property would not be permitted to maintain a package liquor department. That decision was based
upon a previous decision adopted in 1936, Section 199-B, C.M.C. and
one adopted in 1934. pages 26 a nd 27 of 1934 proceedings. When the
1934 and 1936 decisions are examined we find that they applied to
a beer garden. in the one instance, and a pool ball where liquor was
served, in the other. In the 1931 decision, the statement was made that
such decision did not apply to the sale of package liquor.
There is no question that saloon keepers and barkeepers are not
eligible for admission to Masonry and that the leasing of Lodge property
for the purpose of conducting a saloon or bar business. except in connection with and as part of the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant. should not be permitted. On the other hand , under Section 513-c,
C.M.C.. the operator of a retail bottle (package) liquor store is eligible
to apply and the Lodge may receive his application. If we permit an
applicant to engage in the business of selling bottled liquor. then we
should likewise be consistent and permit a Temple Association to lease
stores on the ground floor for such purpose.
For these reasons I recommend tha t Section 199-i, C.M.C.. be repealed.

VI.
There are some interesting statistics regarding the Home for Children at Covina. With the capacity of the Home estimated at 178, the
number of children at the Home has decreased as follows:
1938 148 in residence - 83 % of capacity
1943 99 in residence - 55 % of capacity
1950 59 in residence - 33% of capacity
1960 47 in residence - 26 % of capacity

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

31

Well-recogniz ed factors in bringing about this decline of population a t the Home are : Increasing government assistance to dependent
children. greater activity of social agencies to place children in foster
homes, and generally improved fa mily stability and financial status. We
should be and are pleased that these factors have lessened the demands
on our Home.
• ._.i

Nevertheless, there is room at a very small extra cost for many additional children. What is our present law regarding the admission of
children? Should it be liberalized? Remember I am referri ng only to the
Home for Children and not the Home for Aged at Union City ( Decoto)
which is filled to capacity and, in many cases. persons adm itted are
subject to a short waiting period.
The present rules for admission of children to Covina require,
among other qualifications, that the child be the child of a Master Mason
of this jurisdiction. These rules are set out in detail on page 369 Appendix of the California Masonic Code. Althoug h the Trustees of the
Masonic H omes have the power to adopt rules for admission. such rules
must be in accordance w ith the Constitution, Regulations and discipline
of Grand Lodge. Rel ief afforded by constituent Lodges and basic
qualifications for admission of a child to the Home at Covina is limited
to the child of a Master M ason belonging to a Lodge under this jurisdiction.
The Trustees of the M asonic Home have no power to change that
basic qualification without the approval of Grand Lodge. It is only the
Grand Lodge Qf California which can make a ny change in this requirement. For this reaso n. I am making the suggestion directly to Grand
Lodge without any commitment on behalf of the T rustees of the Masonic
Homes. Ther e are several possible modifications which might be followed:
1. T o follow the chain of nea rest of kin and, in addition to the
grandchild of a Master M ason, admit nephew or niece of a Master
Mason, living or dead . provided the child's mother or father is dead
and financial circumstances justify consideration.
2. To make it possible to admit a child w hose father is or was at
the time of his death a Master Mason in good standing of a Lodge of
another jurisdiction, recognized by this Grand Lodge, provided that
the total number of children admitted under this or any expansion plan
shall not exceed at any time twenty per cent of the total number of
children at the Home , and that the plan be suspended when t he total
population exceeds 150 children.
There may be other plans suggested but without a change in our
fundamental law the Trustees would have no right to admit any child
who is not strictly within the interpretation of our present Masonic

32

PROCEED INGS OF THE

regulatio ns. It is not my intention to bind the Trustees to any plan but
merely to modify our present law so that they would be enabled to do so
if. in their jud gment , such plan should be worthy of a doption. I have
complete confidence in the Trustees of the Masonic Homes and feel
that. if our law is changed , the determin ation of whether any plan as
suggeste d should be put into effect. can rest with them.
To accompli sh the objective set forth in the foregoing , it is recommended that Section 223, C.M.C.. be amended and modified in the following manner:
That the title read "Organiz ation and Power of Board" and that
there be added at the end of the present Section the following:
"Provide d that said Trustees shall have the power to
admit to the Home for Children at Covina the minor next
of kin of Master Masons of this and other jurisdicti ons
under such rules, terms and condition s as said Board of
Trustees may prescribe subject to the approval of the
Grand Master."

VII.
There is an addition al recomme ndation , requiring legislation . which
feel also should be made. It deals with the problem of Multiple and
Plural Members hip. In order that the seriousn ess of the situation may
be realized. permit me to give a hypothet ical case : Brother Watson is
a member of "X" Lodge in Californi a. Under our law permittin g multiple members hip he subseque ntly joins "Y" Lodge in Mexico. He then
becomes active in lodge affairs and becomes involved in a dispute in
"Y" Lodge regardin g the election of certain officers. Under some summary proceedi ng he is expelled from "Y" Lodge. "Y" Lodge, through
the Grand Secretar y of its Jurisdict ion, notifies the Grand Secretar y of
Californ ia and, under our law as it exists at the present time, Brother
Watson is automati cally expelled from "X" Lodge. his Californ ia
Lodge. without the benefit of any trial. What provision of our Californ ia
Masonic Code apparent ly permits this drastic procedur e? It is not found
in the section dealing with the Trial of Masons for Masonic Offenses ,
but is found in the section dealing with Multiple Members hip. Section
432, Par. 6, of the Ordinan ces, as amended at the Annual Commun ication in 1960, reads as follows:
"6. Suspensi on for non-paym ent of dues or otherwis e, or
expulsio n of a multiple member shall immedia tely. and of
itself. terminat e his members hip in all Lodges in this jurisdiction , and the Secretar y of any Lodge suspendi ng or expelling such a member shall immedia tely notify the Grand
Secretar y and also every other Lodge in which the multiple member holds members hip. Like notice shall be given

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

33

in case of reinstate ment, which shall immedia tely and
automati cally restore him to members hip in every other
Lodge in this jurisdicti on of which he was a member. "
Prior to 1960. Sub-Sect ion 6 of 432 did not use the phrase "multiple members hip," but permitted the action as set forth in said section
to be taken in reference to a plural member. Paragrap hs. 1, 2 and 3 of
Section 432 distingui sh between a Dual Member a nd a Plural Member .
Briefly. a Dual Member is one who belongs to a lodge in this jurisdiction and also a lodge in another jurisdiction. A Plural Member is one
who belongs to more than one Lodge in this jurisdicti on. Multiple membership, under the terms of the section, is defined to be either Dual
or Plural Member ship. The rather drastic provision s of Sub-Sect ion 6
can well and properly be applied to a Plural Member. In other words,
if a Mason is tried in one Californ ia Lodge for a Masonic offense and
expelled therefrom by the final action of Grand Lodge, there is no
good reason why he should have the opportun ity of another trial in
some other lodge in this jurisdicti on. On the other hand, if a Dual
Member is expelled in a foreign jurisdicti on. he should not be automatically deprived of his Masonic members hip in Californ ia without
a hearing before his own Lodge. As a matter of fact, our law is to the
contrary. Section 731-A of our Californ ia Masonic Code reads:
" Section 731 was enacted to give effect to the judgmen ts
of other jurisdicti ons. In the absence of any provision on
the subject, the judgmen t of another jurisdicti on suspending a Californ ia Mason cannot be given effect here,
and his Lodge cannot suspend him without a trial on the
basis of such a judgmen t."
We realize the judgmen t of another Masonic jurisdicti on gives
prima-fa cie evidence of the guilt of the accused. but Masonic justice,
in all fairness, should permit the accused to make his defense in his
own Lodge and to have the opportun ity to present facts as to the unfairness of the trial in the other jurisdicti on, and to submit any other
defense he might have.
For these reasons it is my recomme ndation that Section 432, Par. 6,
of the Ordinan ce be amended by deleting the word "Multipl e" and
substitut ing therefor the word "Plural" so that the paragrap h will read
as follows:
"Suspens ion for non-pay ment of dues or otherwis e, or expulsion of a plural member shall immedia tely, and of itself.
terminat e his members hip in all Lodges in this jurisdiction. and the Secretar y of any Lodge suspendi ng or expelling such a member shall immedia tely notify the Grand
Secretar y and also every other Lodge in which the plural

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

member holds membership. Like notice shall be given in
case of reinstatement, which shall immediately and automatically restore him to membership in every other Lodge
in this jurisdiction of which he was a member."

of correct sections of our Law, the Inspector's direct contact with the
officer enabled such Inspector to handle directly the mattu which should
have been called to his attention in the first place.
There were several instances, however. where a written decision
or opinion of the Grand Master was necessary and they are as follows :

VIII.
As more fully set forth in Decision No. 2, I believe Section 490,
C.M.C., should be amended so that a Master who dies while in office
would be entitled to be listed as a Past Master. To accomplish this I
would recommend that a provision be added to said section, making
an exception to the rule stated therein in the event of death. It is suggested that said section be amended as follows:
After the words "constituent Lodges" in line 5 insert the following:
"Provided, however, that a Master who has been regularly
elected or named in a charter and installed and has commenced his term as Master of a chartered Lodge within
the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge and dies while serving as Master, shall be deemed to have served his term to
the end thereof."
DECISIONS

As Grand Master, I have a minimum of decisions to report to Grand
Lodge. This does not mean that there were no inquiries made of the
Grand Master regarding Masonic Law, but most of the letters he
received were answered by directing the inquirer to a specific section
of the Law or Ordinance w here the answer could be found. In spite
of the suggestions of practically every one of my predecessors, it still
seems easier for a person to write a letter to either the Grand Master
or the Grand Secretary asking them the question rather than attempt
to find the answer in the California Masonic Code. There were also a
number of situations presented which required investigation of facts
in order to determine if the matter presented should receive the attention
of the Grand Master. Also a number of complaints were made against
brethren and sometimes even officers. In all of these situations requiring
an investigation or merely the application of the Law to certain facts,
I referred the matter immediately to the Inspector of the particular
District. In some cases, the matter was referred to the Assistant Grand
Lecturer of the particular division. I must express my deep gratitude
to the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the Inspectors for their efficient
and prompt handling of these ma tters. In many cases. an investigation
"on the spot" disclosed that there was no occasion for complaint. In
others, such an investiga tion resulted in a solution by the very parties
involved, in a much better manner than could have been brought about
by a ruling from the Grand Master. In cases involving the application

35

DECISION No. l

A DeMol~y Chapter desired to sell Christmas trees. The Chapter
was located m the area designated as Inspectoral District No. 117.
Brother Lester H. Casagrande, the Inspector of said District, was in
doubt ~s to whether sue~ activities were permissible under the adopted
regulations of the Committee on Commercialism.
Specifically he has requested a ruling as to the effect of the Rules
and Regulations promulgated by the Committee on Commercialism for
the 1958 Communication, and reported on Pages 126 and 127 of the
1958 Proceedings. There appears to be some conflict between those
Rules and Regulations and Decision No. 6 of Past Grand Master Leo
E. Anderson, reported on page 25 of the 1958 Proceedings, and approved by resolution reported on page 286 of the 1958 Proceedings.
It will ?e observed that the Rules and Regulations promulgated by
the Committee on Commercialism are general in form . and in approving
them, it is obvious that Past Grand Master Leo E. Anderson did not
intend to change his Decision No. 6 which was rendered and approved
at ~he same Communication, at which time the proposed Rules and Regulations were_ su~~itted. It is also obvious that in approving the Rules
and Regulations m 1959, no reference was made to said Decision No. 6,
nor was any attempt made to repeal it.
There are numerous qualifications of the Rules and Regulations in
our Decisions. and the Decisions of Past Grand Master Leo E. Anderson contain several such qualifications.
It does not appea r to me that the Rules and Regulations were intended to cover every phase of the activities referred to. and that Grand
Lodge, in approving the Decisions of Past Grand Master Leo E. Anderson, numbered 6. 14, 15, 24, 25 and 33, and in stating on page 291 of the
Proceedings ~f I 958 that Decision 7 and 8 were covered by the Rules
and Regulations proposed by the Committee on Commercialism, intended, by adopting the Rules and Regulations in 1959, to retain its
approval of the Decisions 6, 14, 15, 24, 25 and 33. This Opinion is
also based .o~ a f~eling that the action of the Grand Lodge in approving
those Deas1ons m 1958 established the proper policy of this Grand
Lodge. It is accordingly my Opinion and decision that the Rules and
Regulations set forth on pages 126 and 127 of the 1958 Proceedings
have not altered or changed any of the Decisions numbered 6 14 15
24, 25 and 33, and reported on pages 25 to 30 of the 1958 Pro~eedings:

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DEc1s10N No. 2

I received an inquiry from "X" Lodge giving the following facts: In
December, 1958, the Lodge elected Brother "P" as Master of the
Lodge. Brother "P" served approximately three months before his
death. First Query: "Is it proper for the Lodge to list Brother ' P' as a
Past Master?" Second Query: "Is it proper for the Lodge to place
Brother ' P's' picture alongside of the other Past Masters in the anteroom with the notation 'Died while in office'?'' The law applicable to the
first question is found in Section 490 of the California Masonic Code.
This section provides that the title of Past Master applies to one who
has been regularly elected or named in a charter and installed and has
served a term as Master of a chartered Lodge within this jurisdiction.
This has been interpreted to mean that the Master does not become a
Past Master unless he has served to the end of the term for which he
was elected. Of course. a Master should not be entitled to this honor if he
voluntarily resigns or does some act for which he is removed from office.
When death, however, prevents the completion of his term it does
not seem fair that he should be penalized. But that is the law. The
Grand Master has no power to change it. However, I can recommend
its change. which I have done. and the final determination is to be made
by Grand Lodge. Under the present law the answer to the first inquiry
is that it is not proper to list the deceased Master as a Past Master.
The answer to the second question is that I see nothing improper
in placing the picture of the deceased Master alongside those who have
served in office as Master of the Lodge with the notation that he "Died
while in office."
DEc1s10N No. 3

In a lodge an application for the Degrees was received at a stated
meeting in June. At both the July and August stated meeti~gs t~e Committee was granted further time. In September the committee s report
was made, an unfavorable one, and the applicant was declared rejected.
At the October meeting a Past Master requested that the facts found
by the committee be read . basing his request on Section 530 of the California Masonic Code. This section reads as follows:
"530. Report of Committee. The report shall set forth in
detail the facts ascertained respecting the applicant and
the conclusion of the committee, which conclusion shall be
read to the Lodge. The facts ascertained shall be read
when directed by the Master, or when request therefor is
made by any member of the Lodge. The names of the
members of the committee shall not be made known. The
report must be returned to the Master."

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFO RNIA

37

The Master ref used to read the report and sounded his gavel. The
Past Master has appea led to the Grand Master from the ruling of the
Master.
The appeal involves an interpretation of Section 530, C.M.C. The
purpose of reading the facts, when requested by a member, is to inform
the Brethren thereof prior to a ballot. before which there may be such
discussion of the qualifications of the applicant and of the propriety of
receiving him into the Lodge as may seem proper. (Sec. 535, C.M.C.)
There would seem to be no such purpose in reading the facts to the
Lodge when the committee report is unfavorable, since Section 532 ,
C.M.C. provides that "if the report of the committee, or any member
thereof, be unfavorable, no ballot shall be had, but the Master shall,
upon the reception of such report, declare the applicant rejected."
Nevertheless, Section 530 gives any member of the Lodge, without
qualification, the right to request that the facts s ha ll be read.
It is my opinion that any member of the Lodge may request the facts
ascertained, whether the candidate is reported on favorably or unfavorably. The request. however, must be made at the meeting at w hich
the report is given to the Master. It cannot be made at a subsequent
meeting of the Lodge. It is my opinion and decision that the Master
correctly refused to read the facts at a meeting subsequent to the
one at which the applicant was declared rejected.

This, my Brethren. is the record and report. No one can finish a
compilation of a year's effort without acknowledgement for val uable
assistance in accomplishing the results. This was no one man's job.
Any attempt to designate names would result in a lengthy list to an
already long account. However. I cannot emphasize too strongly my
appreciation to the Pas t Grand Masters, the Grand Lodge officers, the
committeemen, the inspectors, the officers of the constituent Lodges.
and the Master Masons who have been so helpful this year. Being
resident in the Bay Area, it has been my privilege to make use of the
Grand Master's office in our new Temple and thereby have been
enabled to work more closely with the staff of the Grand Secretary's
office than my predecessors had the opportunity to do. To each and
every one of the staff, from the pleasant receptionist to the efficient
Grand Secretary who has now completed his first year in office, I extend my thanks.
I hope that the accomplishments of this year will continue to be of
benefit to the Fraternity in the future. We must not become complacent in believing that Masonry will grow of its own free will a nd
accord, without continued and determined effort by the Master Masons.

38

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

II there were to be a new Commandment proposed, it should be: "Thou
Shalt Not Take Masonry for Granted!"
At the close of this annual communication, my duties as Grand
Master will terminate and those of my successor will commence. What
a magnificent opportunity you have given me to experience as your
Grand Master this most happy and eventful year! As my term closes,
I am reminded of what the Master of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674 wrote
in his Lodge's Trestleboard:
"My fellow officers are extremely thankful for having
been selected to serve in the year 1961; but we are all well
aware of the fact that we are primarily Master Masons.
We are from the ranks of the same; and when our tenure
of service in our respective offices and stations is com.:
pleted, we will return to the ranks of the Master Masons.
I, too, will return to the ranks of the Master Masons, and will
continue with great interest my efforts for the future of Masonry.
Some time ago I had occasion to review the life of M ichael Faraday,
the father of electrical science. This great scientific mind, involved most
of his life with complex principles and laws, nevertheless devoted a
great portion of his time to encouraging the interest of young people
in the world of science, and was able to express his thoughts in terms
that they found challenging and could understand. He ga:e a s~ries
of lectures at the Royal Institute of London, the final one bemg entitled
"The Chemical History of a Candle." He closed his detailed scientific
explanation with a philosophical statement which should be a guide to
Masons, even though as far as I can ascertain, Michael Faraday was not
a Mason. He said in closing:
"All I can say to you at the end of these lectu~es (and
we must come to an end at one time or other) 1s to express the wish that you may, in your generation, be ~t to
compare to a candle: that you may, like it, shin~ as. lights
to those a bout you; that in all your acts you may iustify the
beauty of the taper by making your deeds honorable
and effectual in the discharge of your duty to your fellowmen."

EXHIBIT No.

The message was received with a standing ovation and was referred
by the Deputy Grand Master to the Committee on Distribution.

39

I

"THE YEAR OP THE MASTER MASON"

My Brethren:
For centuries the Chinese h ave followed the custom of designating
each of their years with the symbol of some animal and element. According to the Chinese calendar, each year has its own characteristics, according to that yea r's animal symbol and the influence of the particular
element. There are twelve animals and five eJements which rotate and
fall into different combinations from year to year.
In California, Masons have occasionally described or designated
the Masonic Year. This occurred in 1958, which was called "The Year
of the Temple," being the year when our magnificient Memorial Temple
was completed and dedicated. We still have an obligation in connection
with the Temple, and it will be a yea r of rejoicing when the final payment is made on the loan due the banks. We shall certainly continue our
efforts this year to rid the Temple of this indebtedness.
What name shall we select to designate the 1960-61 Masonic Year?
Too little emphasis has been placed on the role of the 242 ,000 Masons
who comprise the body of Masonry in California. I would therefore
like to characterize this year in California Masonry as "The Year of
the Master Mason."
This suggestion is really not so unique. The importance of the Master
Mason was evidently in the minds of those who conceived the beautiful
endomosaic window w hich beautifies the foyer of our Temple. It depicts
many historic events and symbols of Masonry, but the central figu re in
that magnificent work of art i! the Master Mason, clothed in his white
apron. He is the primary and dominant representation. There stands
the Master Mason. symbolic of the 242,000 Masons who belong to the
Grand Lodge of California. He is s tanding upon the soils actually taken
from each of the 58 counties of California and from Hawaii.
It is fitting that a Grand Master designate the year as "The Year
of the Master Mason," because the Grand .Master is the direct representative of the 242,000 Master Masons in this jurisdiction. Those of
you who have attended a reception for the Grand Master in a constituent lodge. know how he is received. He is not received as the Grand
Master of C alifornia n or as the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
California. He is received as the Grand Master of Masons in California.
Note that his title is Grand Master of Masons in California-not Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge or the constituent lodges, but of the individual Masons themselves. No one can reach the high station of Grand
Master without feeling with all humility the honor and responsibility
which comes in being the representative of 242,000 Master Masons in
California.

40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is sometimes thought that Grand Lodge is oblivious of the interests of the individual Mason and that it is a super-organization controlling the activities of all Masons in California. Grand Lodge is not
a self-perpetuating body. It is the representative of the 242,000 Masons
in this state. Each Master Mason attending his lodge has the right to
vote for the Master and Wardens of his lodge. The Master and Wardens or a duly elected representative attend the Annual Communication
of the Grand Lodge. At each Annual Communication the Grand Master
and other officers are elected. Thus Grand Lodge is the direct representative of all Master Masons through the duly elected officers of the 700
constituent lodges in this state and Hawaii.

ileges-material and spiritual. Spiritually, Masonry can be a way of life
for him. He is entitled to material aid and assistance in time of need and
distress. In return, each Master Mason has the duty of performing his
obligations-to live his Masonry realistically and objectively. in a creditable manner, to act honorably and deal fairly with all men, and to
support his Masonic lodge with sincere and active participation.
Granted Masonry is our way of life-then attending lodge is an
integral part of the pattern of our day-to-day activities. May the Year
of the Master Mason be a year of Renaissance of Masonic interest,
devotion and inspiration on the part of the quarter million Master Masons in California and Hawaii.

It has been pointed out in a-recent Masonic editorial that the general
public has the mistaken idea that there is some supreme authority in
Masonry which controls the activities of all Masons. Brother Luther A.
Smith, Sovereign Grand Commander of the Scottish Rite, Southern
Jurisdiction, states in that editorial t'hat the source of Masonic Power
is in the individual Mason. He writes, "Grand Masters and Grand Commanders are, in truth, merely teachers, the educators of the Craft who
have been invested with the authority to inform and remind their Brethren of their duties and responsibilities to God, their country, their neighbor, and themselves. It is the higih calling of every Mason to keep alive in
the hearts of men the love of freedom and the willingness to fight and die
for it if necessary. <It will be seen, therefore that the source of power in
Masonry, is in the individual Mason. Furthermore, if Masonic power
is to be used to promote the welfare and happiness of the community
and to safeguard the freedom of the people, the individual Mason must
exercise it whenever and wherever it is needed."
The real strength of Masonry is not in the Grand Master, nor in
the elected officers, not in the Grand Lodge, but basically in the individual Master M,ason. What a tremendous source of power-almost a
quarter million in California. In this Year of the Master Mason, what
a wonderful accomplishment it would be if that reservoir of strength
were used for the benefit of Masonry in our jurisdiction. What a great
step forward it would be if the quarter million, or even a fair percentage
of them, would attend their lodges. That should be the start-a reawakening of Masonic interest and activity-which would in turn affect
Grand Lodge and make Masonry a more potent force in our state. The
source of Masonry is in the individual Mason, and when we speak of
attendance at lodge, it does not mean "the other fellow" but you, and
you, and you--each and every individual Master Mason.
'Dhere is a principle of law which states that for every right there
is a corresponding duty. A Master Mason enjoys many rights and priv-

41

ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Gi and Master
EXHIBIT No. II
GRAND LODGE WoRKS FOR You
My Brethren:
In the Winter issue of CALIFORNIA FREEMASON, I designated this
year as "The Year of the Master Mason." Since then I have given much
thought to methods of implementing this theme. What can Grand Lodge
and its officers do to make this year meaningful for the Master Mason?
What can the constituent Lodges do to enrich the objective? What can
the individual Master Mason himself do to attain the goals we have in
mind?
The opening ceremonies of Grand Lodge have been limited to members of Grand Lodge. By resolution amending the California Masonic
Code this restriction has been removed, and Master Masons are now
welc~me to attend except during the short period on the last day when
the elections are hekl. It is hoped that many Master Masons will be with
us at the next annual communication, in the fourth week of September,
1961, and observe Grand Lodge in operation-for it is your Grand
Lodge.
A criticism of the Craft has been that we make Master Masons proficient in the candidates' lectures, but impart little fundamental knowledge of the history or philosophy of Freemasonry in general. or the
Grand Lodge of California in particular. Steps are being taken to
remedy this situation. Reprints have been made of a series of booklets
-Address to the Candidate, Book of the Entered Apprentice, Book
of the Fellow Craft, Book of the Master Mason. These are d·i stributed
to the candidates, the first immediately after election, and the others
after each degree has been conferred. Further revision of the pamphlets
is contemplated by the Ritual Committee. In addition, the Ritucl Com-

43

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mittee is planning a course of instruction through the Inspectors of the
Districts and the candidates' coaches in the constituent Lodges, so that
each candidate will have a better opportunity to know something more
about Masonry than just the ritual. This, then is the picture as regards
the education of the candidate up to the point of his proficiency examination in the Master Mason degree.

Also in May. the Sacramento Valley area will observe an outstanding centennial. in which the entire state will join. This will recall the
events of May 15, 1861, when our Grand Lodge was meeting in Sacramento. The proceedings were interrupted so that the brethren could
march to the State Capitol, where the cornerstone of the Capitol was
laid in accordance with our traditional Masonic ceremony. The tentative date for this celebration is May 13, 1961.
This summer the San Joaquin Valley area will be asked to take part
in a meeting to be held at Columbia, where tribute will be paid to the
Lodges in the southern Mother Lode mining region. For the large number of Master Masons in the Los Angeles area, a city-wide Masonic
event is now on the planning board. These activities, sponsored by
Grand Lodge, are aimed at providing the individual Master Mason
with an opportunity to join his fellow Masons in celebrating memorable
events in the history of Masonry in California.
Th:is message to the Craft has dealt with the question of what Grand
Lodge and its officers are doing and intend to do, to make this year
meaningful for the individual member. In the next issue, we will discuss
what constituent Lodges can do to enrich the objective. I am the first
to admit that I do not 1have "all the answers." and will welcome your
letters suggestings methods of implementing this Year of the Master
Mason.

42

How about the quarter million Master Masons now on our rollswhat is planned for them? All Master Masons desiring enlightenment
in matters Masonic will have many opportunities to gratify this desire.
The Masonic Education Committee (formerly called the Masonic Research Committee) has prepared a brochure setting forth various voluntary plans which can be adopted by the Lodges. As soon as the text
has been approved and plans completed for its publication, it will be
placed in the hands of the Lodges. Each Lodge has been requested to
appoint a Masonic Education chairman who will spearhead the program
in :his individual Lodge. The Research Lodges are planning seminars
and meetings to discuss vital and interesting Masonic subjects. With
all of this, California should be in the forefront in the field of Masonic
education for our 242,000 Master Masons.
There are many members :in our jurisdiction who have not had the
opportunity to visit our beautiful California Masonic Memorial Temple,
since they are occupied in their vocations or professions on weekdays,
and their time does not permit them to come to the Temple during the
regular visiting hours. The officers of the Temple have now made it
possible for Lodges and groups of Masons to visit on week-ends, and
those interested should contact the office of Grand Lodge.
A new Grand Lodge committee has been created this year-the
Committee on Masonic Information. Its objective will be to provide the
press witih data concerning the activities of Grand Lodge. News items
and pictures are prepared and distributed to news channels for publication. There is no doubt that good public relations will result from this
service, as the general public will have a better opportunity to know
something of the positive approach of our Fraternity. Likewise, the committee will keep all Master Masons informed about the program for
the year, wh:ich is geared to participation by all Master Masons.
Early in February. the Master Masons in the El Centro area had
the opportunity to witness the opening of Grand Lodge in that area,
at which the Grand Master of Arizona and a number of Grand Masters
of Grand Lodges in Mexico were received. In May, the Susanville area
will celebrate the centennial of the formation of Lassen Lodge, and
Grand Lodge will be convened in a special communication to receive
the Grand Master of Nevada and die Grand Master of Oregon. All
Master Masons in the vicinity are urged to take part in this event.

ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

Grand Master
EXHIBIT No.

III

2500 SMITHS, 2000 JoHNSONS, 1400 BROWNS!!

My Brethren:
Did you know that there are about 2500 Smiths who are Master
Masons belonging to Lodges under the Grand Lodge of California?
We also have 2000 Johnsons and 1400 Browns. We are accustomed
to talking about the Joneses, but here the Johnsons seem to outnumber
them!
Every one of our 700 Lodges has its proportionate number of Smiths,
Johnsons and Browns. each of them a Master Mason, not just a page
full of names in a telephone book. In this Year of the Master Mason,
what are the constituent Lodges doing to make this year meaningful
for each member?

The aim of each activity of a Lodge should be to make the Smiths,
fohnsons and Browns something more than a statistic. They are all
Master Masons, and each one should lie assured that he is recognized
as such. The outstanding constituent Lodges are those where there is

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

full participation by all of the members in all of the activities of the
Lodge. Such interest is not just accidental-it is nearly always the
result of adequate and efficient planning, as to programming; publicizing
and general encouragement of participation.
Good programming covers both the ritualistic and business meetings
and balances these with proper entertainment features. Plans should
not be made haphazardly as the year progresses. At the very outset of
the year, major events should be mapped out as to tentative dates, so
that the year's program can be built around them. No successful Lodge
year can be like Topsy who "just grew."
As to the meetings and entertainment features themselves, it is imperative to remember that they must be varied. Any program, no matter
how carefully arranged, may be dull and uninteresting if presented
every year in the same way without change. Brethren are attracted to
the meetings when the presentation is novel.
The manner of conducting every meeting is all-important. Start the
program on time: avoid lengthy preliminaries; if there is a speaker, give
him a suitable introduction to his audience: and CLOSE ON TIME.

It is universally recognized that undignified or careless degree work
has a bad effect on attendance. Punctuality and promptness on nights
when degrees are being conferred as on other meeting nights. In planning the programs, and in carrying them out, the interest of the individual Master Mason should be kept foremost in mind, as his interest is
the reason for all of these efforts.
After programming, the next step is sufficient publicity. The finest
program in the world will be poorly attended if the members are not
fully informed about it.
Beyond publicizing the program the Lodge bulletin can serve as a
strong medium for encouraging general participation in Lodge activities,
if it makes frequent reference to the individual Master Mason members
of the Lodge. The bulletin should not be used exclusively for news items
about the officers or the Past Masters (or even Grand Lodge officers!).
Everyone likes to see his name in print.

It is unfortunate that the feeling has developed in Masonry that
the average member is merely an "onlooker" and not a participant in
the work of the Lodge. The degree work is almost exclusively restricted
to the officers. When and where possible, the members should be given
some part. At business meetings the members should be encouraged to
take part in debates and discussions. The educational programs afford
an excellent opportunity for member participation. There can be no
greater boon to good attendance than to make each individual Master
Mason--each of the Smiths, Johnsons and Browns-feel that he has

45

an active part and is actually needed in the Lodge, and is not merely
a dues-payer and a watcher!
Of course, we all recognize that this is not a one-way street. The
constituent Lodge can do all of these things to implement the purposes
of the Year of the Master MasoR, but there are certain obligations and
duties which the Master Mason himself must perform. What the
Master Mason himself can do will be the subject of my message to
you in the next issue of the CALIFORNIA FREEMASON.

ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Grand Master

EXHIBIT No. IV
To ALL MASTER MASONS

My Brethren:
As an indication that the office of Grand Master is a full-time job,
you may be interested to know that this message is being written while
on a flight from San Francisco to Portland. The Grand Master is on
his way to represent you and the Grand Lodge of California at the
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Oregon, which convenes
tomorrow morning, so I am glad to have this time "up in the air" to prepare this message for the CALIFORNIA FREEMASON.
It is a temptation, as I glance out of the plane window, to talk to
you about the scenic wonders, from Mt. Shasta to Mt. Hood, which
seem to be on full display today just for our benefit! However, while
this plane may be "up in the air," I will try to keep my feet on the
ground in writing this message, for this has been a grount!l-level year,
the Year of the Master Mason. When we meet on the level state-wide,
there are 243,000 Masons symbolically assembled at the first step of all
Masonry in California, the Master Mason degree.
In this, my fourth message in this significant year, I address my
remarks to all Master Masons in California. Your Grand Master and
the Grand Lodge are indeed proud of the fine response of the Master
Masons this year. We observed the Centennial of the laying of the
cornerstone of the State Capitol at Sacramento, on May 13. The Brethren responded most admirably to our request for their participation in
this ·celebration. One thousand Master Masons, wearing their white
aprons, joined with the Shrine Band, the Knights Templar and the
Grand Lodge officers in marching through the streets of Sacramento
to the Capitol as their predecessors had done a hundred years before,
to commemorate this historic anniversary. We often hear the phrase
"stand up and be counted." Well, 1000 Master Masons did so in Sacramento, and it was a most rewarding and reassuring sight' to your

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Master. In another recent event, the same evidence of support
and genuine interest was given in Coronado, when 350 apron-clad
Master 1Masons marched from the Lodge Ha11 to the site of tjhe laying
of the cornerstone of the Coronado High School. A fine response was
also seen in the great number of Master Masons attending the Centennial celebration of Lassen Lodge at Susanvi11e. In fact, there have been
many outstanding meetings of Master Masons throughout the entire
state.

EXHIBIT V
SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OF GRAND LoDGE

46

These Master Masons exemplify devotion to duties which all Master
Masons should perform. No doubt many of these attending Brethren
are subscribers to the CALIFORNIA FREEMASON, and will read this message. I only wish there were some way to reach all of the Master Masons in California, numbering almost a quarter million. Our subscribers
to the CALIFORNIA FREEMASON number about 80.000 (which should
be more! ) , and it is my hope that in some way this message will reach
the others.
In honoring all Master Masons this year, we should receive in
return the support of every Master Mason in all of the Masonic activitie11 in the state of California. Basically and fundamentally. this calls
for a real and sincere interest in the activities of the constituent Lodge:
service on committees; participation in all programs; support of Public
Schools Week activities; sharing of responsibility for endowment fund
support of our 1Masonic Homes. The starting point, of course, is attendance at Lodge. There is no limit to which the constituent Lodge
might rise if all, or at least a good majority of its members were present
at meetings to take part in the work of the Lodge and encourage the
officers in their earnest endeavors.
'f.he sign just flashed on, "Fasten Your Seat Belts," and we are
approaching the Portland airport. I will bring this message to a close
with this thought: Perhaps too many of our Brethren have fastened
the seat belts in their easy chairs at home in front of the TV set! When
the plane has come in for a landing. you unfasten your seat belt and go
on ·t o your activities. The Year of the Master Mason is "coming in for
a landing"; m·a ny Master Masons throughout California have already
unfastened their seat belts and are demonstrating .their fine interest
in taking part in the responsibilities and activities of the constituent
Lodges. Let's make it a One Hundred Per Cent effort that will grow
in effectiveness year after year.
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Grand Master

47

I960
October I 5-Constitution, Ashland Lodge No. 798, San Lorenzo.
October 22-Constitution, Central California Research Lodge, Fresno.
October 22-Cornerstone Ceremony, Welcome Lodge No. 255, Lemoore.
October 29-Constitution, Tila Pass Lodge No. 797, Los Angeles.
November 5-Re-laying Cornerstone Ceremony, Columbia Grammar
School. Columbia.
November I I-Constitution, Bay Claire Vista No. 799, San Diego.
November I2-Constitution, Rio Hondo Lodge No. 800, El Monte.
November 26-Cornerstone Ceremony, Orinda Lodge No. 704, Orinda.
December 3-Comerstone Ceremony-Chino Va11ey Lodge No. 427,
Chino.
196I
March 24-Cornerstone Ceremony. Oxnard Masonic Temple, Oxnard.
March 25-Cornerstone Ceremony, Covina High School, Covina.
April 8--'Cornerstone Ceremony, Chester W. Awalt High School.
Mountain View.
April I 5--'Cornerstone Ceremony, Cerritos College, Norwalk.
April 28-Cornerstone Ceremony, North Fork Union School District,
North Fork.
April 29-Cornerstone Ceremony, Scottish Rite Temple, Los Angeles.
May I2-Cornerstone Ceremony, Natoma Lodge No. 64, Folsom.
May 13-Centennial Celebration, Re-laying Cornerstone of State Capitol. Sacramento.
May 27-Cornerstone Ceremony, Abrolita Elementary School, La
Habra.
June 3---'Cornerstone Ceremony, Coronado High School, Coronado.
June IO-Cornerstone Ceremony, Norwalk Ma11onic Temple, Norwalk.
July 29--'Constitution, Koolau Lodge No. 80I, Honolulu.
August 19-Cornerstone Ceremony, Hemet Lodge No. 6I 5, Hemet.
September I5-Cornerstone Ceremony, West High School, Torrance.
September 16--Cornerstone Ceremony, Centralia School District,
Buena Park.
EXHIBIT VI
SPECIAL CEREMONIES
I960
October I-Dedication, Corning High School, Corning-Senior Grand
Warden Ira W. Coburn.
December I-Dedication, Phil Swing Elementary School. Brawley Junior Grand Warden Elmer Heald.

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I96I
January 28-Dedication, Fairview Masonic Temple, Los Angeles.
February I4-Dedication, Terrier Hall, Redlands Senior High Sc<hool,
Redlands-Deputy Grand Master.
February 22-Laying Memorial Wreath, Thomas Starr King Statute,
Washington, D.C.
March I I-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Acalanes Lodge No. 723,
Lafayette.
March I 8-Dedication, Beaumont High School. Beaumont - Past
Grand Master Phil N. Myers.
March 23-Dedication, Las Palmas Masonic Temple, Fresno.
May 6-Ground Breaking, New Scottish Rite Temple, California
Bodies, A.A.S.R., San Francisccr-George D. Gavin, P.M. Oriental No. 144.
May I 9-Dedi<:ation, Luther Burbank Plaque, Santa Rosa.
July I-Dedication, Lake Redding Park, Redding.
August I I-Laying Memorial Wreath, U.S.S. Arizona, Pearl Harbor.
September 9-Dedication, Coastside Lodge No. 762, Pacifica.

January 30-Reception, 3I 9th and 320th Districts, Richmond.
February I-Reception, Starr King Lodge No. 344, San Francisco.
February 3-Reception, The Imperial Valley Officers Assn., El Centro.
February I I-Reception, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles.
March 3-Service and Reception, Temple Sherith Israel, San Francisco.
March 4-Reception, U.C.L.A. Clubhouse, Los Angeles.
March I 0-Reception, Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers Assn. and
Districts No. 368, 370, 372 and 374, San Jose.
March I 2-East Bay Masonic Spring Breakfast, Oakland.
March I 7-Reception, Silver Cord Lodge No. 505, Santa Ana.
March I 7- I 8-Sixth Division Conference, La Jolla.
March I 9-Westwood Hills Church Service, Los Angeles.
March 25-Meeting, Masonic Homes Trustees, Covina.
March 26--Los Angeles Board of Relief Breakfast, Los Angeles.
March 27-Grand Assembly International Order of Rainbow-,Senior
Grand Warden Ira W. Coburn.
March 30-Reception, San Francisco Scottish Rite Bodies, San Francisco.
April 8-Pre-Breakfast Reception, Sacramento Board of Relief, Sacramento.
April 9-Annual Spring Breakfast, Sacramento Board of Relief, Sacramento.
April I I-Reception, Berkeley Masters and Wardens Assn., Berkeley.
April I2-Reception, California Bodies Scottish Rite, San Francisco.
April 14-Reception, 6 I 6th District, Riverside.
April I 5-Re<;eption, 620th District, San Pedro.
April I 6--Annual Breakfast, Long Beach Board of Relief, Long Beach.
April I 8-Reception, 362nd District, Alameda.
April 20-0ne Hundred Third Annual Conclave of the Grand Commandery, Sacrament~Past Grand Master Leslie E. Wood.
April 2I-23-Fifth Division Conference. Ventura.
April 23-Reception and Breakfast, District Nos. 504, 506, 508 and
5IO, Santa Barbara.
April 28-Masonic Service, Tifereth Israel Synagogue San Dieg~
Senior Grand Warden Ira W. Coburn.
April 30-Reception and Breakfast, Districts Nos. 5I I, 5I2, 5I3, 5I5,
545, 546, Sherman Oaks.
May IO-Reception, Districts Nos. 3IO, 3I6, 3I8, 360, 36I, Vallejo.
May I8-Reception, Districts Nos. 382 and 394, Pacific Grove.
May I9-2I-Third Division Conference, Santa Rosa.
May 26-Reception, 628th District, Brea.
May 27-Reception, San Diego County Officers Assn., Lemon Grove.
May 28-Breakfast, Orange County Officers Assn., Anaheim.

EXHIBIT

VII

RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

I960
October 2-Annual Breakfast, San Francisco Masters and Wardens
Association.
October 7-DeMolay Legion of Honor presented to the Grand Master.
October 9-First Annual Breakfast, San Mateo Masonic Officers Assn.
October I I-Reception, Lebanon Lodge No. 495, San Francisco.
October I 6--Annual Breakfast, Santa Rosa Lodges, Santa Rosa.
October 20-Reception, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood.
November I 9-Reception and Homecoming, U.C. Clubhouse, Berkeley.
December 9-lnstallation of Officers, Amity Lodge No. 370, San
Francisco.
December I 9-Christmas Party, Masonic Home, Covina.
December 20-Dinner, Masonic Press Club of Los Angeles.
December 22-Christmas Party, Masonic Home, Union City.
I 96I
January 4-Presentation Fifty Year Veteran Button to Carl Wente,
Mosaic Lodge No. 2I 8, Livermore-Grand Secretary Edward H.
Siems. P.G.M.
January I 4-Annual Communication of the Past Masters Association
of San Francisco, San Francisco.
January 2I-Meeting, Masonic Homes Trustees, Union City.
January 29-Reception and Breakfast, Eastern Area Division 5, Pasadena.

49

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

June 2-4-Fourth Division Conference, Yosemite.
June 11-Breakfast, Districts Nos. 526, 548, 549 and 552, Santa
Monica.
June 16-18-First and Second Division Conference, Lake Tahoe.
June 23--Grand Bethel, International Order of Job's Daughters, Sacramento-Harold N. Richards, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
June 25-Twenty-seventh Annual Celebration honoring St. John the
Baptist, Districts Nos. 518, 519, 522, 566 and 567, Compton.
June 29-Breakfast, Juvenile Court Judges of the United States, San
Francisco.
July 2-Reception and Breakfast, Districts Nos. 536, 550, 551 and 562,
El Segundo.
July &-Luncheon, Al Malaikah Shrine, Los Angeles.
July 7-Reception, Districts Nos. 1.16, 117 and 206. Chico.
July 8-Reception, Mountain Shade No. 18, Downieville.
July 20-Reception, Fidelity Lodge No. 120, San Francisco.
July 23--En route to Honolulu.
July 30-Reception, 385th District, Honolulu.
July 31-En route to Kauai, Hawaii.
August 1-Reception, Kauai Lodge No. 589, Hawaii.
August 2-En route to Maui, Hawaii.
August 3--Reception, Maui Lodge No. 472, Maui, Hawaii.
August 4-En route to Hana, Hawaii.
August 8-En route to Hilo, Hawaii.
August 9-Reception, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hawaii.
August 10-Reception, 384th and 385th Districts, Honolulu.
August 12-0fficers Association Banquet, Honolulu.
August 19-East Baiy Past Matrons & Past Patrons Association,
Masonic Home, Union City. Grand Secretary Edward H. Siems.
September 17-Twenty-Second Annual Masonic Breakfast, Fresno.

EXHIBIT IX
VISITATIONS BY GRAND OFFICERS TO OTHER GRAND JURISDICTIONS
1961
January 23-25-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Colorado.
February 15-19--Grand Master's Conference, Washington, D. C.Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Secretary.
April 24-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona-Senior
Grand Warden Ira W. Coburn.
June 14-15-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Ollegon.
June 20-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of WashingtonDeputy Grand Master Guy B. Mize.

EXHIBIT VIII
ANNIVERSARIES DURING 1960-1961
1960
October 21-Golden Anniversary, Clovis Lodge No. 417, Clovis.
November 29-Seventy-Fifth Anniversary, Madera Lodge No. 280.
1961
January 27-Golden Anniversary, Inglewood Lodge No. 421, Los
Angeles.
May 6---Centennial Celebration, Lassen Lodge No. 149, Susanville.
May 12-Golden Anniversary, Kerman Lodge No. 420, KermanDeputy Grand Master Guy B. Mize.
May 20-Centennial Celebration, Vitruvius Lodge No. 145, Petaluma.
May 30--Centennial Celebration, Molino Lodge No. 150.

51

EXHIBIT x
INSPECTORS
Appointed since October 1, 1960
Date of
Appointment
George Dennis Lober.............................. District 606............ 10/ 4/60
Romayne Harvey Bantz.......................... District 310............ 1/ 1/61
Larry C. Basker...................................... District 356............ 1/ 1/61
Herbert H. Hobson ................................ District 348............ 1/ 1/61
Lorenza H. Shaw.................................... District 638............ 1/ 1/61
Burton Meyer, Jr.....................................District 534............ 1/ 1/61
Robert A. Crigler.................................... District 522............ 1/ 1/61
Frank E. Stevens.................................... District 508............ 1/10/61
Russell F. Bragg...................................... District 601............ 1/12/61
Benjamin F. Nash.................................... District 521............ 1/18/61
Roy C. Addleman, Jr............................... District 523............ 1/18/61
Arnold G. Robertson.............................. District 564............ 1/18/61
Richard Marks Lustig ............................Distriot 608............ 1/18/61
Cressey J. Wescott................................ District 204............ 1/20/61
William E. Marshall... ...........................District 212............ 1/27/61
Horace R. LaFortune.............................. District 216............ 2/15/61
A. Boyd Collier........................................ District 219............ 2/15/61
Wayne E. Philippi..................................District 120............ 3/29/61
Edward L. Spellmeyer............................ District 118............ 5/18/61
John Keller, Jr•........................................ District 308............ 6/ 1/61
EXHIBIT XI
GRAND REPRESENTATIVES
Appointed since October 1, 1960
Representing Other Jurisdictions in California:
Bolivtia................................................Thomas W. Thurman
Santa Catarina (Brazil) ............................ Eugene P. Jijine

52

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Representing Calz1ornia in Other Jurisdictions:
Arizona.......................................................... Earl A. Spitler
Bolivia................................................ Humberto Frias Rojas
Canada, Province of Ontario .............. William L. Wright
District of Columbia................................. .lsadore Nimeroff
Santa Catarina (Brazil) ................ Tolentino Manoel Dias
Scotland.............................................................. Allan Stark
EXHIBIT XII
PROCLAMATION
PORTY-SECOND ANNUAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

Although fantastic strides have been made in the field of automation by electronics in recent years, it is still a basic fact that you cannot
have a public school system without public sc:hool teachers.
What is a teacher? First of all, an educator; then a psychologist,
and in many cases, a foster parent; clearly, not a machine. The person
must have a sympathetic nature and a genuine love and respec~ for
children. In short, the public school teacher is one of the most important
people in our national life - entrusted as the teacher is with rhe education of the future citizen.
For this reason, the theme adopted for the 1961 Annual Observance
is "The Public School Teacher - Builder of Tomorrow's Leaders."
During this week, let us all visit the Public Schools, where all
children may attend, without charge, and without regard to race, creed
oc religion. Let us pay honor to all those who 'have the responsibilty of
operating our schools: the administrators, staff personnel. principals
and teachers.
In accordance with our annual custom, I hereby proclaim the last
week !n April, 1961 - being April 24 to April 28 inclusive - as
Public Schools Week.
I direct that no meetings be held during that period except Stated
Meetings, if they fall therein, and meetings for Public Schools Week
observance.
This Proclamation is to be read at the Stated Meetings of each
Lodge in the months of March and April. 1961.
Dated: January 26, 1961.
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

53

PROCLAMATION
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH

This year having been designated as "The Year of the Masttt
Mason," it is appropriate to recall that the residents of our Homes are
Master Masons, or the wives, widows or children of Master Masons.
It is equally appropriate this year to further enlighten the brethren
as to the factual in(ormation concerning these MasoP.ic Homes for
Master Masons and their dependents.
In addition to such enlightenment, it is an opportune ti'Ile for all
Master Masons to share in this MASONRY IN ACTION program
by making a material contribution to the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund.
"An enlightened Lodge is a heightened Lodge,
A giving Lodge is a living Lodge"
This month of May is hereby proclaimed as Masonic Homes Endowment Month, during which time proper thought and attention shall
be directed to our two fine Homes and to the adequate endowment
thereof.
It is urged that a copy hereof be sent to each member.
It is directed that this Proclamation be read at the April and May,
1961, Stated Meetings.
Dated: February 1, 1961
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

PROCLAMATION -

DEMOLAY WEEK

March 13-18, 1961
Youth - Key to the Future! The mantle of responsibility will, in a
few short years, be in the !hands of the young people of today. These
young people must be prepared for that responsibility.
The way of life that we cherish is being threatened from every side.
Those that would destroy it are devoting a great deal of time in their
efforts to control the thinking of our young people. If we are to preserve
those heritages which we hold so dear, we must see that the youth of
today are influenced by the principles of right thinking and right
living.
The idea for DeMolay was generated in the mind of a Mason. The
formation of the Order of DeMolay was projected and made effective
by the late Frank S. Land, one of the outstanding Masons of this

54

55

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

country. Throughout the entire forty-one years of its existence, the
Order has been guided by Masons. Its teachings are Masonic in character. It is a serious fraternal organization dedicated to the preservation
of our way of life. This young man's organization, with our help, can
be the means of assuring that the citizens of tomorrow will follow in our
footsteps.
Today there are 270 Chapters of the Order of DeMolay in California and Hawaii. Each Chapter is sponsored by a body of Master
Masons. Well over half of them by constituent Lodges of this Grand
Jurisdidion.
In recognition of the important role that t'he Order of DeMolay is
playing in die future of our communities and our nation, I proclaim that
the week of March 13th through March 18th of 1961 shall be observed
as DeMolay Week throughout the Jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge.
Each Lodge is requested to give due notice of this Proclamation, in its
bulletin or otherwise, and to include some recognition of the Order of
DeMolay during that week.
Dated: February 20, 1961
Fraternally,

I suggest that the programs shall be open to Masons and nonMasons alike and may be held in any suitable building, park or place
readily accessible to the public rather than in a Lodge hall. Further,
that when only one program is planned for a Lodge it be not held during
a tiled meeting or as part of a dinner preceding a Stated Meeting.
This great document which we do honor, the guarantor of American
liberties and free enterprise, and the insurance policy for human rights,
is the greatest political document of all times. Masonry can and must
preserve and protect its existence.
Daniel Webster, the great American, wrote:
"GOD GRANTS LIBERTY ONLY TO THOSE
WHO LOVE IT AND ARE ALWAYS READY TO
GUARD AND DEFEND IT."
This proclamation is to be read at die Stated Meetings of each Lodge
in the months of August and September, 1961.
Dated: July 10, 1961.

ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

Grand Master

ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Grand Master

Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

EXHIBIT XIII

CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE

REGULATIONS GOVERNING ORGANIZATIONS
SUBJECT TO THE JURISDICTION
OF THE
MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LoDGE, F. & A. M OF CALIFORNIA

To all Masonic Brethren within the Jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California:
In commemoration of the one hundred seventy-fourth anniversat'}
of the signing of the Constitution of the United States of America, that
momentous event having taken place on September 17, 1787, I do hereby
designate the month starting September 17, 1961, and ending October
14, 1961, as Constitution Observance Month.
Each Lodge fo this Grand Jurisdiction is requested during this
period, either independently or in conjunction with other Lodges, to
set apart at least one day to memorialize this occasion. It is suggested
that other organizations ('Masonic affiliated or not). service groups,
youth groups, schools, churches, etc., be urged to participate.
I direct that when more than one Lodge shall join in the same program for the purpose stated, none of said Lodges shall hold a meeting
or schedule any event for the Lodge on the day appointed for this occasion.

1. The following regulations are posted to preclude violations as set
forth in the California Masonic Code by organizations subject to the
jurisdiction of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of
California, by reason of requiring Masonic membership, affiliation or
sponsorship.
2. The term "organization" as herein usecl'is defined to include
(a) any subordinate lodge;
( b) any group, chapter, order, club, association or organization,
requiring Masonic affiliation or sponsorship, including but not
limited to:
York Rite Bodies
Scottish Rite Bodies
Shrine
Shrine Clubs
Sciots
Grotto

PROCLAMATION

56

57

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Eastern Star
Order of Amaranth
White Shrine of Jerusalem
Social Order of Beauceant
Job's Daughters
Rainbow Girls
DeMolay
Masonic Clubs
3. These regulations apply to all Master Masons living within the
jurisdiction of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of
Califoraia, irrespective of whether such Master Mason is a member
of a lodge in California or elsewhere.

holding the sales. Merchants or other members of the public may not
be solicited for merchandise or other donations to the sale.
This regulation does not prohibit Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls
and DeMolays from selling candy, cookies, Christmas trees and similar
items to the public and doing so in the name of their organization. These
Youth Groups do not have salaries and must raise funds to pay their
expenses. However, the price should always be fair and no pressure
should be used to makes sales.
This regulation does not prohibit the sales of tickets to members,
their families or friends, for breakfasts, dinners, card parties, dances,
bazaars, and so forth. These breakfasts, etc., may be held in Masonic
Temples or elsewhere, but should always be handled well within t!he
bounds of propriety and no invitation to attend may be extended to the
public as such. 11here may be a news story in the local press to the effect
that the organization is having a dinner or whatever the event may be,
but this story may not refer to any charge for the affair and may not
indicate that the public is invited to attend. Merchants or other mem~
hers of the public may not be solicited to buy tickets, participate or
make donations of any kind.
Public support may be asked of activities if the entire procttds less
necessary expenses for food, etc., are actually given to a recognized
charity of the fraternity or of the organization.

REGULATIONS

I. ADVERTISING
No organization as herein defined nor any member thereof sb.all
solicit oc accept advertising of any kind for publication or insertion in
any roster, program, bulletin, or announcements to be printed or pub~
lished.
No such organization nor any member thereof shall sponsor, insert,
place or pcint advertising of any kind in any publication claiming to be
MasGnic in name or character. (C.M.C. 334).
This regulation does not prohibit the placement in bona fide news~
papers of legitimate news items of grganization, group or club activities
or advertisements in s2id newspapers in connection with rummage
sales which do not use the name of any of the organizations hereinbefore
named or any group thereof.

II. PUBLIC SUPPORT
No organization as herein defined nor any agency thereof sucb. as
social clubs, mothers' clubs, sewing circles or other clubs or groups
within such organization, nor any member thereof, using any name
whatever shall sponsor any event, project, scheme or plan wherein
public suppart is requested or solicited on behalf of such organization or
any agency or group thereof. Tickets or other items may not be sold
to the general public. ( C.M.C. 333.) Rummage sales wherein public
support is solicited in the name of the organization or of any group
thereof are forbidden, and these sales may not be held in a Masonic
Temple. Howeve , organ:izations may hold rummage sales which are
open to the public but the place of sale may not display the name of the
organization conducting the sale. News stories or advertisements of the
sales may be used but may not contain the name of the organization

III. SOLIQTATION OP GIFTS
T•he solicit~tion of merchants, firms, business houses, or the public
for gifts of merchandise, money or prizes of any kind for or in connec~
tion with the general activities of the group or organization, such as
dinners, parties, and meetings, is strictly forbidden. This regulation does
not · prohibit a member of any organization from voluntarily donating
such a gift or contributing to a Charity, or furnishing entertainment for a
meeting of the organization, either individually or through his business.
If the organization wishes to announce the name and business of the
member who sponsored or furnished the entertainment at the meeting,
it may do so.

IV. COMMERCIAL VENTURES
No organization herein denned or any agency or group thereof shall
directly or indirectly engage in any business, project, venture, promo~
tion, scheme or plan which is unethical, misleading, fraudulent or illegal.
No such organization shall knowingly receive money or property as a
donation or contribution from such operations ( C.M.C. 332).

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No organization as herein defined nor any member or group of members thereof shall directly or indirectly give aid or countenance to any
rafRe, lottery, or other gambling enterprise or accept any of the proceeds
or profits therefrom. ( C.M.C. 685).

The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which were
referred by the Grand Master to the committees as noted:

58
V.GAMBLING

59

RESOLUTIONS

Door prizes are permissible only if those attending do not pay any~
thing of value for the chance to receive the door prize. In this connection the payment of ~he usual charge of the restaurant or organization
serving a dinner, lunch, or breakfast is not the payment of something
of value for the privilege of drawing and the door prizes must be of
nominal value such as candy and may be donated by members of the
organization.
Table or score prizes at card parties may be given if the prizes are
donated by the members or the organization and are of nominal value
such as candy.

In case of doubt or disagreement as to the applicability of these

CIPHER RITUAL CODE

(2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, repeated changes have been made to the Masonic
Ritual over the past years by successive persons responsible for the
ritual and
WHEREAS, these changes vary from district to district and section
to section and have been of a nature such that they have created misunderstanding, friction and discord in the district officers' meetings and

regulations to any particular event or enterprise, consultation should
be had with the Inspector of the District. There are a number of deci~
sions on subjects covered in these Regulations in the 1958 Proceedings
of the Grand Lodge, commencing on Page 25.

WHEREAS, other Grand Jurisdictions authorize the use of cipher
ritual codes
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Grand Lodge of California adopt a uniform cipher ritual code and

Approved:

FURTHER. that said code include the prescribed floorwork so that
officers and members of the constituent lodges may learn a standard
ritual together with the necessary floorwork and

ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Grand Master of Masons in California

FURTHER. that the California Masonic Code be amended as required to permit the possession and use of a cipher ritual code and
FURTHER. that said cipher code be prepared under the direction
of the Grand Lecturer and placed in possession of the constituent lodges
not later than two ( 2) years after adoption of this resolution and
FURTHER. that said cipher ritual code be changed only by resolution or at the suggestion of the Grand Lecturer with a majority vote of
Grand Lodge and
FURTHER. that Grand Lodge furnish one ( 1 ) copy of said cipher
ritual code to each constituent Lodge and that the constituent Lodges
or the brethren of the Lodges shall be permitted to obtain additional
copies of the ritual code at their own expense from Grand ·Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
GLENN E. POMEROY, JR.. Past Master, Lodge No. 629
HERMAN GEORGE, Master, Lodge No. 629
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

60

61

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SHORTENING THE RITUAL

BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, when at labor, aprons bearing
the insignia of the officer's rank or station, may be worn by the member
filling such office or station; or, at the option of the Lodge, be worn by
the Officer regularly elected or appointed to such station while in the
Lodge, and plain white apron worn, together with Jewel of such Office,
by the member appointed to temporarily fill such office or station._
Respectfully submitted,
MARSHALL B. BARKER, Past Master, Lodge No. 366
C. SAM JoHNSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 417
ROBERT W. BECKWITH, Past Master, Lodge No. 486
SAMUEL R. BAUMAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 581
GLADNEY L. HAMILTON, Past Master, Lodge No. 309
GLENN BuRNEIT, Past Master, Lodge No. 313

(3)
To the Most W orshi'pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS the world in which we live moves faster and faster,
and
WHEREAS many of those who attend our Lodge sessions leave
early in the evening, and
WHEREAS studies indicate a desire on the part of the brethren
for short Lodge sessions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED. that
1. The incoming Grand Master is hereby directed to appoint a Spe~
cial Committee, consisting of not less than seven members, to study the
possibilities of shortening our ritualistic work by eliminating duplica~
tions; by making reference in lectures to materials printed in the monitor,
or other authorized printed material; and by such other suitable and
proper devices as the committee may determine, provided always that
nothing shall be proposed or considered which alters the body of Ma~
sonry, or weakens its teachings or conflicts with its ancient charges.
2. The study shall include the opening and closing ceremonies, the
ritualistic work of each of the three degrees, and such other ritualistic
work as the committee may determine.
3. The Committee is directed to consider, on their merits, certain
"short forms" now in use in some of the other jurisdictions in the
United States.
4. The Committee may take not more than two years for its work.
It may, if it so decides, terminate its work in one year.
5. The necessary expenses of the Committee shall be paid by the
Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
J. WILSON GETSINGER, Master, Lodge No. 518
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Fi~
nance and on Ritual.

OFFICERS' APRONS
(4)
To the Most W orshz'pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Jewel of Office is the only indentifkation essential
to an acting officer while performing Lodge duties, and
WHEREAS, the removal or changing of the apron of a station with~
in the Lodge room, is undignified and awkward, and
WHEREAS, the sojourning and visiting brethren may be confused
and unable to distinguish the actual Officers of the Lodge, which may
be embarrassing to them,

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

VISUAL AIDS
(5)
To the Most Worshz'pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS the Special Committee on Visual Aids reported to
the Grand Lodge in 1959, in part as follows:
· "1. We presently make extensive use of visual aids in all of our
degrees e. g. the Bible, the square, the compass, the pillars, the work~
ing tools. Hence extending the use of visual aids would not be a
violation of.Principle.
.
.
"2. Visual aids are an important factor in the learmng process. This
has been so well established by modern research as to need no
documentation here. The question for us is not, do visual aids have
value, but rather how can they be used within the limits inherent in
our work.
"3. The educational methods used should be based not alone on the
desired impressions for the candidates and the convenience of the
officers, but certainly as much in terms of significant values for the
audience (members and visitors on the side lines) . "
AND WHEREAS the committee recommended no change in the
presentation and lectures of the three degrees, but suggested that ap~
propriate physical representations be placed in other parts of the Lodge
buildings than in the Lodge hall itself; and that visual aids be used for
special programs, etc., and
WHEREAS the committee's conclusions were sound and construe~
tive, but its recommendations have proven inadequate, in that little has
been done to carry them out, and it seems probable that they cannot
be of any great effectiveness,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The incoming Grand Master be directed to appoint a new Visual
Aids Committee for the purpose of determining and recommending to
the 1962 Grand Lodge appropriate uses of visual aids for each of the
three degrees, consistent with California standards and objectives.
That the new Committee be instructed to first review and make
use of all of the findings of the 1959 Committee as a base for its work.
That the sum of $300.00 be appropriated for the work of the new
Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
J. WILSON GETSINGER, Master, Lodge No. 518
Ref erred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS

TIDRD DEGREE PROFICIENCY
(6)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOLVED that the incoming Grand Master appoint a
Special Committee, to work out Details, Procedure, and Feasibility of
Mandatory Proficiency in the Third Degree, and to report its 'findings
at the next annual communication.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT HousH, Master, Lodge No. 736
CHESTER T. HoBBS, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 736
LEROY H. NIENABER, f unior Warden, Lodge No. 736
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
(7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOLVED that applicants for admission into the subordinate Lodges of California be considered on the basis of "the internal
qualifications and not the external qualifications" and that the ability of
the applicant to perform the duties of a Master Mason, as well as those
of a responsible citizen, be the primary consideration. If any applicant
otherwise fully qualified, has a physical handicap Which would require
a modification of the ritual. the Master of the sub-ordinate Lodge
would be required to petition the Grand Master for a dispensation to
so modify the ritual. showing good and sufficient ·reason why the
petitioner should be accepted.
Fraternally,
JOHN L. WIXON, Past Master, Lodge No. 705
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

63

(8)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there are many worthy and well qualified men who
have been wounded, maimed, otherwise physically disabled in the
defense of our country in its wars, and others similarly worthy and well
qualified who, through misfortune or tragedy have also become physically disabled or maimed, and who are literally unable to comply with the
physical requirements of our laws and are therefore denied participation
in our privileges, and,
WHEREAS, this is contrary to our teachings and precepts, particularly that of Brotherly love, and,
WHEREAS, we no longer work in operative Masonry but speculative only, these physical requirements are obsolete,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that all references .to physical
sufficiency or physical qualifications for the degrees contained in our
laws, rules, regulations, edicts, decisions, O·r any other matter on this
subject, written or unwritten, having the force of law, be rescinded.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the prescribed ritual for the
various degrees remain unchanged but that in the event that an accepted
candidate is unable to physically execute or perform acts prescribed in
the various degrees, that the conferring Lodge be vested with the power
and authority to assist the candidate, either actually, by demonstration,
or other appropriate means, to perform or execute those physical requirements which his disability prevents him from performing or executing without such assistance or demonstration.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any prostheses usually worn
or used by an accepted applicant, for his safety, comfort, physical
improvement, well being, or necessity, be permitted to be worn or used
during the conferring of the degrees.
Respectfully submitted,
RusSELL J. BRAASCH, Master, Lodge No. 651
DONALD D. PITMAN, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 651
EDWARD A. GRINDLE, Junior Warden, LodgeNo. 651
HERBERT A. McKECHNIE, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
ROBERT CHRISTIANSEN, Past Master, LodgeNo. 651
ROBERT F. GILBERG, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
ALBERT F. KouLA, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
REGINALD H. STEVENS, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
ROYAL HoDGE, Past Master, ·Lodge No. 651
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION DATE
(9)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Conference of California Judges and the State
Bar Convention have been held the last week in September for many
years, and
WHEREAS there are a large number of lawyers and Judges on
the regular committees of Grand Lodge, and many others who are
members of Grand Lodge and who desire to attend Grand Lodge and
also the Bar Convention or Judicial Conference and
WHEREAS the change in the date of Grand Lodge to the last
week in September has made it impossible for these Judges and lawyers
to participate in both affairs.
NOW THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the regular Grand
Lodge Communication be held hereafter, as previously, on the second
week of October of each year.
Respectfully submitted,
WAKEFIELD TAYLOR, Past Master, Lodge No. 41
FOLGER EMERSON, Past Master, Lodge No 61
RICHARD CHAMBERLAIN, Past Master, Lodge No. 521
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

MINIMUM DUES
(10)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, in 1948 a recommendation of the Grand Master was
adopted by this Grand Lodge that Section R.D. 251 of our Ordinances,
which provided that nine dollars should be the minimum annual dues
payable by a member of his Lodge, be amended to be the sum of twelve
dollars per year. and
WHEREAS, the reason given by the Grand Master was that the
value of the dollar had materially decreased and many of the Lodges
needed the increased revenue, and
WHEREAS, "A Lodge that is strong financially is generally strong
spiritually."
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that for the same
reasons given thirteen years ago, Section 571 of our Ordinances be
amended; Minimum Dues. The minimum annual dues from members
shall be fifteen dollars.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH W. COLLINS, Past Master, Lodge Nos. 566 & 739
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

65

FEE FOR RESTORATION
(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Suspension for non-payment of dues is entirely due
to neglect or refusal of a brother to make payment of dues, and
WHEREAS, the suspension and frequently the reinstatement of
a brother entails a certain amount of expense to the suspending Lodge,
therefore
BE IT RESOLVED that the words "plus reinstatement fee of ten
dollars" be inserted in Articles number 581 and number 582, C.M.C.
to follow the word "payment."
Respectfully submitted,
AYLMER H. KEITH, Master, Lodge No. 296
G. MERTON RosE, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 296
THEODORE F. McWILLIAMS, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 296
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

RESEARCH LODGE OFFICERS
(12)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Relative to the Resolution adopted at the 1960 Grand Lodge session,
to the effect thpt "None but a Past Master of a California Lodge is
eligible for election as Master, Senior or Junior Warden of a Research
Lodge" (now Paragraph 18 of Section 385 CMC), it is now felt, after
more mature deliberation, and after seeing the crippling effect this
Amendment has had on the prospects for Officer material in the
Research Lodges, that this provision operates to the detriment of the
Research Lodges, without offering any compensating advantages. There
is in actual reality no connection between the knowledge and capabilities of a Past Master of a Degree-conferring Lodge and the requirements for leadership in a purely Research Lodge.
Accordingly, a Motion was passed at the March Stated Meeting of
the Northern California Research Lodge reading as follows :
"MOVED that it is the sense of the Northern California Research
Lodge that the Resolution adopted at the 1960 Communication of Grand
Lodge, limiting the eligibility of Masters and Wardens of Research
Lodges to Past Masters only, is not in the interest of California Masonry,
and would only serve to impede the progress of our Research Lodges and
the service they are capable of rendering Freemasonry in California,
and that therefore the Resolution referred to should be rescinded at the
next Communication of Grand Lodge.''

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A similar motion was passed at a Stated Meeting of the EI Camino
Researc h Lodge. The following Resolut ion is therefor e offered for
conside ration at the forthcoming 1961 Grand Lodge Commu nication :
RESOL VED that Paragra ph 18 of Section 385, Californ ia Masoni c
Code, being deemed to be contrar y to the best interest s of Californ ia
Masonr y, should be and is hereby rescinde d.
~
Respect fully submitt ed,
ALEX HORNE, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
JoHN H. BROOKE, Past Master, Lodge No. 562
PAULS . BOREN, Past Master, Lodge No. 551
ELBERT W. DAVIS, Past Master, Lodge No. 571
CLAUDE C. GORDON, Past Master, Lodge No. 150
SIMEON E. SHEFFEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 554
FRANK H. REINSCH, Past Master, Lodge No. 677
Referre d to Commi ttees on Jurispru dence, and on Policy and General Purpose s.

JOHN A. MARCHUT, Master, Lodge No. 5
EDWARD L. BAEHR, Master, Lodge No. 87
LEONARD G. DICKINSON, Junior Warden , Lodge No. 87
JosEPH ANDERSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 87
Referre d to Commi ttees on Jurispru dence, on Policy and Genera l
Purpose s, on Finance and on DeMola y.

66

SPONS ORSH IP OF YOUT H ORGA NIZAT IONS
(13)
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOL VED that a new section be added to our Masoni c Code,
reading as follows:
Sec. 386. YOUT H ORGA NIZAT IONS. A Lodge by resolution, approve d by the Grand Master, may sponsor youth organiz ations dedicat ed to the interest and welfare of boys and girls limited
to DeMola y, Rainbow , and Jobs Daught ers and a Lodge may expend its funds in defrayi ng the cost of such sponsor ship and of providing youth nights and other entertai nment for and on behalf of
such groups.
Reason for resoluti on: Clearly recogni zing the fact that the future
of our country and our Masoni c Fratern ity rests in the hands of interested leadersh ip of well guided, rightly influenc ed youth, we the undersigned request urgently , that this legislati on be enacted at this convoca tion of Grand Lodge. It is not only necessa ry, but an excellen t opportuni ty to serve our country as well as serving our fraterni ty by influencing and encoura ging them in the right directio n.
Respect fully submitt ed,
RAYMOND A. HUNT, Senior Warden , Lodge No. 229
ORVAL F. CARPENTER, Junior Warden , Lodge No. 5
CUTHBERT MENGE, Master, Lodge No. 487
E. C. ScoGGINS, Senior Warden , Lodge No. 487
}AMES M. BARKLEY, Past Master, Lodge'N o. 5

67

CALIF ORNIA FREEM ASON
(14)
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOL VED ~hat ~e Californ ia Freema son be sent quarter ly to
all members of Californ ia Lodges beginni ng with Volume 10' Numbe r 1'
for 1963.
Respect fully submitt ed,
NEWCOMB CONDEE, Past Master, Lodge No. 614
GEORGE W. BURCH, JR., Past Master, Lodge No. 650
JOHN WuLLSCHLEGER, Past Master, Lodge No. 550
MAURICE B. Ross, Past Master, Lodge No. 35
RALPH T. MERRIAM, Past Master, Lodge No. 272
WILLIAM R. MACE, Past Master, Lodge No. 205
ROBERT W. 0BLATH, Past Master, Lodge No. 506
Referre d to Commi ttees on Jurispru dence, on Policy and General
Purpose s, and.on Finance .

MASO NIC EDUC ATION
(15)
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHER EAS, the Grand Master has designa ted, this, the year of the
Master Mason
WHER EAS, the gains that have been made this year, should be
perpetu ated for future years.
.. BE IT T~EREFORE RESOL VED that page 46, of the Monito r
..Stated _Meeting, or~er of busines s" be amende d, by adding No. (7)
Masoni c Educati on (for not more than 30 minutes ).
Respect fully submitt ed,
EsAu T. AGAJANIAN, Master, ·L odge No. 563
Referre d t~ Commi ttees on Policy and Genera l Purpose s, on Ritual '
and on Educati on.

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

STUDY OF SUBVERSIVE TECHNIQUES

MEMBERSIIlP IN SUBVERSIVE ORGANIZATIO N

(16)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS the penetration by subversive agents of an alien
ideology into every phase of public affairs is threatening the continuation of the American way of life, and
WHEREAS this penetration has been made possible by a lack
of understanding on the part of loyal citizens to the seriousness of the
communistic inroads, and
WHEREAS the most effective weapon against any subversive force
is an informed, alert electorate, thoroughly imbued with the positive
political theories upon which our government was founded, and
WHEREAS the existing practices have not been adequate in the
dissemination of counter information to cope with the advancing communistic penetration, and
WHEREAS Masonry has traditionally opposed all totalitarian
philosophies and has represented freedom from oppression throughout
the world, and
WHEREAS the dissemination of knowledge is a basic function of
Masonry
THEREFORE BE IT NOW RESOLVED that the Grand Lodge
of the State of California approve and encourage the formation of a
voluntary committee in each of its constituent Lodges for the express
purpose of serving in these capacities:
1. To study the techniques and methods of Communism:
2. To act in the capacity of a resource group to promote and direct
the distribution of information to the public in each community
of the techniques and methods of Communism:
3. To use every opportunity to stress to the citizens of our country
the importance of our political heritage.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that a copy of this resolution
be transmitted to the several Grand Lodges of the United States of
America.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK H. VONDERAHE, Past Master, Lodge No. 345
FABIN F. RICHART, JR., Past Master, Lodge No. 345
THOMAS L. HENNINGER, Past Master, Lodge No. 345
GLENN M. HUTCHISON, Master, Lodge No. 345
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Education.

69

(17)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS the Masonic Fraternity from time immemorial has
established, supported and fought for individual freedom and liberty
for all peoples and is recognized throughout the world as an organization of Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth, and
WHEREAS the Masons of the United States of America carried
on and strengthened these basic concepts of their Masonic Forefathers
by a Declaration of Independence, a Bill of Rights and an establishment
of a duly constituted government, and
WHEREAS there exists throu9hout the world today various organizations, groups, parties and nations which are attempting to intimidate,
subvert and destroy duly constituted and representative government
and to supplant the same with dictatorial regimentation and
WHEREAS many people belonging to these subversive groups are
infiltrating into all organizations including our own and
WHEREAS our normal investigation reports may fail to expose
one of subversive intension because there is nothing now included on
our present application form for the degrees of Masonry which would
pose a discussion of such an activity,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the following
question be added in our "Application for Degrees": "Would you be
willing to take an oath that you never were, or are, or ever will be,
knowingly aff!liated with any subversive group or organization inimical
to the government of the United States of America."
Respectfully submitted,
DOUGLAS M. CRAIG, Master, Lodge No. 381
}AMES L. LoGSDON, Sr. Warden, Lodge No. 381
CHARLES BALDRIDGE, Jr. Warden, Lodge No. 381
CHARLES C. INSKEEP, Past Master, Lodge No. 381
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY
(18)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Masons were active in securing the freedom of the
thirteen original states: were active in the creation of the Republic known
as the United States of America: participated in the preparation and
adoption of the Declaration of Independence; were the leaders in the
Constitutional Convention of 1787, and since that time have been active
in the preservation of the Constitution and our Republic, and

70

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

proWHER EAS, since 1922 the Grand •L odge of Califor nia has
each
by
year
each
of
vided for Consti tutiona l Observ ance in Septem ber
constit uent lodge, and
uaWHER EAS, Abrah am Lincoln, in a speech entitled "The Perpet
,
Illinois
ield,
Springf
at
ed
tion of Our Politica l Institu tions," deliver
Januar y 27, 1837, said:
"At what point is the approa ch of danger to be expect ed?
I answer - if it ever reache s us, it must spring up among st us;
it cannot come from abroad . If destruc tion be our lot, we must
ourselv es be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we
must live throug h all time or die by suicide .''
ted
AND WHER EAS, Comm unism is an atheist ic ideolog y dedica
Conour
destroy
to the conque st of the world and, if success ful, would
stitutio n, our Republic and individ ual freedom, and
the
WHER EAS, Mason s can no longer stand idly by and permit
spread of such doctrin es in the United States,
NOW , THER EFOR E. BE IT RESO LVED , that the Grand Lodge
g its
of Califor nia and its constit uent Lodges becom e active in alertin
s of
danger
and
g
meanin
the
to
,
members, their families and friends
e,
preserv
,
protect
to
s
sibilitie
respon
their
size
communism, and to empha
States.
United
the
of
tution
Consti
and defend the
rs of
BE IT FURT HER RESO LVED that such books as "Maste
Bureau
l
Federa
the
of
r
Directo
33°,
r,
Hoove
Edgar
Deceit " by Ill. J.
ttee
of Investi gation, and other books approv ed by the approp riate commi
distrib
be
may
ter,
of Grand Lodge, and pamph lets of the same charac
and
,
therein
shown
be
s
picture
uted in Lodges ; that approp riate motion
.
talks be made by Mason s who are qualified to speak on that subject
once.
at
taken
be
The time is already short, and action must
Respec tfully submit ted,
GROVERC. SWART, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
RAY R. SENCE, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
WILLARD T. PORTER, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
PAUL W. ADLER, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
J. RICHARD BoNER, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
ROBERT E. NELSON, Past Master , Lodge No. 406
CLARENCE A. Ross, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
JOEL GLEN GLADSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
KARL A. BEYERS, Past Master , Lodge No. 406
CAREY W. BURCH, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
EDSALL P. READ, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
HUGH E. GREGORY, Master, Lodge No. 542
JACK SHARP McGREGOR, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
LoN V. PRICE, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
EDWARD SOLOMON, Past Master, Lodge No. 542

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

71

JAMES MANN, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
GEORGE F. OSBORNE, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
DoNALDG. INGALL, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
HARRY H. LARSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
HEMAN P. EDGERLY, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
LESTER J. NELSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 506
REG. BUNCE, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
HOMER D. WEBSTER, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
RICHARD B. CARTER., Master , Lodge No. 406
JAMES A. CORRIN, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
GEORGE W. RAKOW, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
WARREN A. RAYAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
0. S. DEWEES, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
RALPH V. KELLINGER, Past Master, Lodge No. 542
DANIEL F. HAWORTH, Past Master, Lodge No. 406
LEIBY T. PAUL, Master, Lodge No. 715
MARVIN SHAPIRO, Master, Lodge No. 721
CLIFTON H. DARNELL, Past Master, Lodge No. 715
A. R. MOBERG, SR., Past Master, Lodge No. 504
on
. Referr ed to Comm ittees on Policy and Genera l Purpos es,
.
Library
on
and
Fmanc e, on Educat ion,

PUBL IC SCHO OLS WEEK OBSE RVAN CE
(19)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
set
WHER EAS, since 1919 the Grand Lodge of Califor nia has
ance,
Observ
Week
s
School
Public
a
for
year
each
in
aside one week
been
and during said week the Lodges within the jurisdic tion have
meetand
gs
Meetin
Stated
enjoine d from holding any meetin gs except
ings for Public School s Week Observ ance; and
a
.WHE REAS , Public School s Week has now develo ped into
civic
by
but
s,
nationa l observ ance, not only by various Grand ·Lodge
and commu nity groups of every nature; and
ng
WJ:IER~A~, the organi zations in the State of ·Califo rnia requiri
have
rship
membe
to
isite
prerequ
a
as
ship
Mason ic affiliation or relation
School s
been in full sympa thy with the aims and purpos es of Public
ning
concer
ion
"':"'eek, but for the most part not adopte d any legislat
es
activiti
the
n
betwee
ts
it, and as a result there have been some conflic
is
it
and
ance;
observ
Week
s
School
of said organi zations and Public
and
ance
signific
greater
even
have
would
ance
felt t~at said observ
of other
effect 1f the Mason s of Califor nia did not attend any functio ns
schools;
public
the
bodies during said week, except those concer ning
now, therefo re,
each
BE IT RESO LVED , that during the week proclai med in

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

year by the Grand Master to be Public Schools Week, no Mason
residing within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California shall
attend meetings of any organization requiring Masonic affiliation or
relationship as a prerequisite to membership, except Stated Meetings
and meetings for Public Schools Week observance; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that upon adoption of this resolution all organizations requiring Masonic affiliation or relationship as
a prerequisite to membership, be notified by the Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
MARVIN L. LYNCH, Master, Lodge No. 513
C. RAY HuNT, funior Warden, Lodge No. 513
RAYL. WHITNEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
VoYLE H. SIPES, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
CHAS. R. KELLEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
EARL W. NEAL, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
ALBERTS. DAVIDSON, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 513
HAL ANDERSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
CHAS. L. WEBBER, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
JoHN B. NICKERSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
EARLL. KINGMAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
JoHN BAKER, Past Master, Lodge No. 513
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

called collateral Masonic organizations has been terminated by the
ruling in 1955 by the Most Worshipful Grand Master that the game
of BINGO is against Masonic law and policy, it is
RESOLVED, that the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.
of the State of California, adopt the following policy regarding the
playing of BINGO and that annotation ( d) of Section 685 of the
California Masonic Code be amended accordingly:
BINGO games may be conducted by Lodges or so-<:alled collateral
Masonic organizations subject to the following restrictions:
1. Attendance must be limited to members of the lodge or organization and their families and guests.
2. No charge can be made, directly or indirectly, for attendance
or participation in the game.
3. Prizes awarded must be of nominal value, such as boxes of
candy, or items of similar value.
4. The event cannot be advertised or publicized other than in the
regularly published bulletins to members of the lodge or organization.
Any lodge or organization conducting or participating in a BINGO
game in which the foregoing restrictions are not complied with shall
be regarded as violating Masonic law and policy.
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES L. FosTER, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
CARLTON H. RoTHBLUM, Past Master, Lodge No. 470
ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS, Past Master, Lodge No. 260
DANIEL D. ROWLANDS, Past Master, Lodge No. 481
• SAMUEL GRANGER CLARK, Past Master, Lodge No. 464
}AMES E. FINLEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
Ref erred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

72

BINGO
(20)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, for many years prior to 1955 the game of BINGO
(as hereinafter described) was one of the most popular social events
in many California Lodges and so-called collateral Masonic organizations, and
WHEREAS, many lodges in this jurisdiction are finding it difficult
to arrange enough diversified events in which the members and their
families can join in social activities, and
WHEREAS, when the game of BINGO is planned by the lodge
or organization solely as a social activity for the entertainment of its
members and their families, no charge is made for admission or to play
the game, the public is not invited and the event is not publicized outside the lodge or organization, and the prizes are limited to those of
nominal value; the game has no public connotation of gambling because
the public is in no way involved and the members and their families
are folly aware of the noncommercial nature of the event, and
WHEREAS, the playing of BINGO in California Lodges and so-

73

REGISTRATION OF SOJOURNERS
(21)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the undersigned, believing in Masonic Communication between all Brethren, whither so ever dispersed, and knowing of
the large number of Brethren in our Jurisdiction from other Jurisdictions
of California, and not having knowledge of their persons, and believing
t!hey would swell the ranks of our constituent Lodges. Now therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, that the Grand Lodge of California Shall
Decree that all Lodges within the Jurisdiction of California shall furnish

74

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to the Grand Lodge the names and addres ses of the Brethr en so located
and it shall further be the duty of the Maste r so notified to contac
t
these Brethr en for the purpos e of welcoming them to attend said
Lodge.
AND BE IT FURT HER RESO LVED . t'hat Grand Lodge shall,
in due time, extend this practice to all fifty States of the United
States
and Canad a.
Respec tfully submitted.
ANCHOR NEILSEN, Master, Lodge No. 690
Referr ed to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera
l
Purpos es. on Financ e and on Sojour ners.

BE IT FURT HER RESO LVED , that this resolution be record
ed
among the ordina nces of Grand Lodge.
Respec tfully submitted,
WAKEFIELD TAYLOR, Past Master, ·Lodge No. 41
RALPH T. MERRIAM, Past Master, Lodge No. 272
FOLGER EMERSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 61
RALPH H. HEAD, Past Master, Lodge No. 352
SAM C. SHENK, Master, Lodge No. 1
Referr ed to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera
l
Purpos es, and on Political Activity.

75

POLIT ICAL ACTI VITY OF LODGES
(22)

SCHO LARS HIP AW ARDS BY LODGES

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
BE IT RESO LVED AS FOLL OWS:
Notwit hstand ing any decisions, edicts, rules or regulations of Grand
Lodge heretof ore passed , free, full and open discussion shall hereaft
er
be permit ted in Grand Lodge, and in the <:onstituent Lodges. on
any
questio n or subject directl y or indirectly affecting Freema sonry
or the
public welfare generally. including. but not limited to, the discuss
ion
of pendin g or propos ed local, state or federal legislation.
Provid ed, however, there shall be no discussion within a Mason
ic
Lodge of religious sectarianism, as such, partisa n politics, or the
candidacy of any aspiran t for public office, and provided, further
that
neither Grand Lodge nor any constit uent Lodge shall take action
with
referen ce to, or endors e or disapprove any propos ed local, state
or
federal legislation, unless Grand Lodge shall first have determined
that
such legislation constit utes an immediate peril to the existence of
Masonic Lodges, or threate ns the imposition of restrictions thereon
.
Provid ed, further, that neither Grand Lodge nor any constit uent
Lodge shall solicit, accept, contribute, approp riate, or expend any
funds
to be used in the candid acy for any public office; nor shall Grand
Lodge
or any constit uent Lodge solicit, accept, contrib ute, approp riate,
or
expend any funds for any campa ign for the adoptio n or rejection
of any
propos ed local. state or federal legislation unless Grand Lodge
shall
first have determined that such legislation constitutes an immed
iate
peril to the existence of Mason ic Lodges or threate ns the imposition
of
restrictions, thereon. and only then, in the case of Grand Lodge,
by a
5/6 vote of qualified voters presen t at a Communication, or, in the
case
of constit uent Lodges, by a vote of 5/6 of members presen t at a meetin
g
of which written or printed notice of time, place and purpose shall
have
been mailed to eac·h of its members at least 30 days prior to the
date
thereof.

(23)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHER EAS, for many years the Grand Lodge of Califor nia has,
throug h its sponso rship of Public Schools Week, promo ted and
encourag ed the development of our Public Schools system, and
WHER EAS, the Public Schools Comm ittee is on record as favoring the award of scholar ships as a desirab le adjunc t to its suppor
t of
the Public Schools system , and
WHER EAS. no machinery presen tly exists whereb y constit uent
lodges may admini ster and control any system of scholarship awards
,
and
WHER EAS, it is believed that most effective admini stration
of
such awards may be accomplished at the local level. thereby promot
ing
greater interes t in the Public Schools Week observance and identif
ying
the awards more closely with the Mason ic fratern ity, therefo re
BE IT RESO LVED . that constit uent lodges or groups of lodges
be author ized to develop scholarship award progra ms in their
own
localities and to expend thereon such sums as may be require d in
their
discretion and consist ent with their financial position.
Respec tfully submitted,
NAVAL LooGE No. 87, F. & A. M.
I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was unanim ously
adopte d by the brethre n of Naval Lodge at our stated meetin
g held
on Thursd ay, May 4, 1961.
JoHN K. COTHRAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 87

Secretary

Referr ed to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera
l
Purpos es, on Financ e, and on Scholarship.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXPENSES OF MEM BERS
(24)

FEES

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESO LVED , that Section 174 of the Califor nia Mason ic Code
w?rd
Annot ated be amended by striking out in the fourth line the
ng
followi
e
sentenc
the
of
der
remain
the
"exact ", and by strikin g out
delelatter
the
of
lieu
in
uting
substit
and
line,
sixth
after "Viz:" in the
tion the following: "where the trip is entirely within the State, an a.mou~t
nia
determined by the recognized mileage as publish ed by the Califor
fixed
as
way
each
mile
per
rate
State Automobile Associ ation at the
an~
by the Committee on Financ e; and where the trip involved is f~om
Air
United
by
ed
publish
as
e
mileag
air
the
,
Islands
to the Hawai ian
Lines."
Respec tfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Past Master. Lodge No. 560
l
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera
rs.
Membe
of
Pay
on
and
e,
Financ
on
Purpos es,

(27}

76

TIME OF PAYM ENT TO GRAN D LODGE
(25)
F. & A. M. of California:
Lodge
Grand
ipful
Worsh
Most
To the

RESO LVED , that Section 285 of the Califo rnia Mason ic Code
e of
Annot ated be amend ed by deleting therefrom the first sentenc
"Each
ng:
followi
the
f
thereo
place
in
uting
that Section and substit
those
Lodge shall account for the contributions collected by it from
SecGrand
the
Applic ants on the form provid ed for that purpos e by
retary. "
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Past Master , Lodge No. 560
Comm ittees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Generl
to
ed
Referr
Purpos es, and on Financ e.

MEM ORIA L CONT RIBU TION S
(26)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Cal11ornia:

RESO LVED , that Section 287 of the Califor nia ~asonic ~ode
L~ne 7
Annot ated be amend ed by deleting therefr om that port1?n of
~me .9
?f
portion
t~?t
and
8,
Line
of
all
le:",
appear ing after "Temp
ln
uting
substit
and
ary
Secret
Grand
"the
words
the
before
ing
appear
consuch
f~r
t
accoun
lieu thereof the following: "Each Lodge shall
tributions on the forms provid ed by the Grand Secreta ry; .
Respec tfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Past Master , Lodge No. 560
l
Referr ed to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera
Purpos es and on Financ e.

77

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Calz1ornia:
RESO LVED , that Section 281 of the Califor nia Mason ic Code
Annota ted be amend ed as follows:
Eliminate sub-division "7th".
Re-number the presen t sub-division "8th" to become subdivision "7th", and to read as follows: "For the Annua l Procee dings and other publications, or blanks, or supplies ordere d by
Grand Lodge to be kept and sold by t-he Grand Secreta ry, the
sum to be fixed from time to time by the Grand Secret ary."
Respec tfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Past Master, Lodge No. 560
Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera l
to
ed
Referr
Purpos es and on Financ e.

DUTI ES OF GRAN D SECR ETARY
(28)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESO LVED , that Section 150 of the Califor nia Mason ic Code
ision
Annota ted be. amend ed by deleting therefr om the presen t sub-div
as
read
to
"20th"
ision
sub-div
"20th" and substit uting therefo r a new
t
withou
ly
annual
Lodge
uent
constit
follows: "To forwar d to each
such
all
perform
to
and
dings,
Procee
l
Annua
the
of
charge one copy
"
other duties apperta ining to his office as the Grand Lodge may direct.
ted,
Respec tfully submit
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Past Master, Lodge No. 560
l
Referre d to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera
Purpos es and on Financ e.

TRIA L MAN UAL
(29)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
ng
RESO LVED , that a special committee be appoin ted by the incomi
after
and,
book
form
trial
a
of
ation
prepar
the
for
Grand Master
on
approv al by the Grand Master , the Chairm an of the Committee
that
nces,
Grieva
on
ittee
Comm
Jurisprudence and the Chairm an of the

78

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the book be published by the Grand Secretary and offered at cost to
Worshipful Masters and Trial Masters assigned to Masonic trials.
Respectfully submitted.
EVERETT HousER, Past Master, Lodge No. 504
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Grievances.

RESOLUTION WITHDRAWN
The Resolution on Masonic Education, previously circulated as number 15, was withdrawn by its proposer.
At 12: 00 noon Grand Lodge was called off until 1 : 15 p.m.

79

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, September 25, 1961
At 1 : 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.
DISTINGUISHED GUESrfS
The following distinguished guests were received with private
Grand Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master and seated
in the seats reserved for them:
M ... w ... LLOYD M. GREENE,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky.
M.'.W.'.HOWARD c. BELTON,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
M.'.W.'.ELMER c. HUNTLEY,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M.'.W.'.STANLEY D. SUNDEEN,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.

M:.w:.Charles W.Simmons,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Idaho.

M:. w: .CLIFFORD R. SNYDER,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Wyoming.

M.'.W.'.HAROLD w. HOLLEY,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
The following distinguished guests were escorted into Grand Lodge
and, after being welcomed by the Grand Master, were accorded public
Grand Honors and ~hen escorted to the seats reserved for them:
R.'.W.'.W1LLIAM H. QuAsHA,
Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M.'.W,'.HERBERT H. EBERLE,
Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of
Idaho.
v.·.w. ·.CLARENCE M. GRosHELL,
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Utah.
M.'.W.'.SILAS E. Ross,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M.·.w.
A. CARLsoN. JR.,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M:.w:.J. W1LLIAM J. STEDMAN,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.

·.c.

80

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

M:.w:.EARLA. SPITLER,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
M.".W.".WILLH. TAYLOR,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M.·.w.·.STANToN YouNGBERG,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines
W.".FELIX A. LENHART,

Past Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia
and now a member of Durant Lodge No. 268.
w:.RoGER H. STRUMM,

Representative of the Grand Lodge of California in Saskatchewan.
w

••• JACOB KRAUS,

Representative of the Grand Lodge of California in New York.
At various times during the Communication the following distinguished guests addressed the Brethren at the invitation of the Grand
Master. Each of the addresses was enthusiastically received. In each
instance the warmth of the fraternal greetings was sincerely appreciated.
M.·.w.·.LLoYD M. GREENE,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky.
M:.w:.HowARD c. BELTON,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
M ••• w

••• ELMER c. HUNTLEY,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M.".W.".STANLEY D. SUNDEEN,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M ••• w

••. CHARLES w. SIMMONS,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Idaho.
M.·.w.·:cuPPoRD R. SNYDER,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Wyoming.
M: .w: .HAROLD w. HOLLEY,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
R.".W.".WILLIAM H. QuAsHA,

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.

*

81

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

*

*

*

*

The Grand Master called attention to the presence of John W.
Stephens, a 95 year old member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355, and
emphasized the fact that Brother Stephens has served as Tiler of his
Lodge for 35 years.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
One year ago the brethren of California accorded me the honor and
privilege of serving as Grand Treasurer. Herewith is my report covering
the activity of the office for that period.
Immediately upon taking office, an audit was conducted by Lybrand,
Ross Bros. & Montgomery, C. P. A.'s and all funds and securities were
properly accounted for and placed under my custody by Edward H.
Siems, P.G.M .• my predecessor.
In conjunction with the Grand Master, Grand Secretary and the
Chairman of the Finance Committee, the fidelity bonds of the Grand
Treasurer, Assistant Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary and Assistant
Grand Secretary were reviewed and were increased to the sum of
$50,000 for each officer.
With the exception of the period of my illness early this year, I attended all meetings of the Investment Committee as well as the Homes
Board where the Grand Treasurer serves as treasurer by virtue of his
office.
Following precedent all financial reports and audits of the Grand
Lodge and its agencies are submitted in one folder. I urge each delegate
to carefully review the statements and audits as they give in detail the
story of the operation of the Grand Lodge and its various activities.
All appropriations and disbursements have been carefully reviewed
by the professional auditors as provided in Section 194 C.M.C.
Detailed rec;ords and vouchers are on file in the office of the Grand
Secretary.
The year just passed ·has been a splendid one and the budget as
presented one year ago has been strictly adhered to. The only supplemental appropriations granted were the following:
Grand Lodge Officer's Travel... ............................... $ 2,500
Inspectors' Apron & Stationery.............................. 1,200
Legal Services·-·-··--------·-----·-----------------·--------------·--·-·· 1,000
Workmen's Compensation Insurance.................... 1,000
Current Liability on Pension Fund.......................... 6,000
Social Security Taxes..............................................
800
Capital Additional Replacements............................ 1 ,500
$14,000
These were more than offset by savings in several categories. Actual
expenditures for the year were $4,308.49 less than the original budget
adopted one year ago.

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

This has been an interesting experience and I have enjoyed tremendously the privilege of serving with such men as our Grand Master,
M. W. Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand Secretary, M. W. Edward H. Siems,
W. Paul A. Pflueger, Assistant Grand Treasurer and W. Henry D.
Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary. Our friendships go way back and
being a part of this year's team has been most gratifying.
I express to the brethren my deep appreciation for the privilege of
serving them and sincerely hope that my efforts have been fruitful for
the Grand Lodge.
ARTHUR M. WARREN
Grand Treasurer
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

Page 1

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS -

COMPARATIVE

DATES AS SHOWN
YEAR ENDED

INCOME RECEIPTS:
Grand Lodge:
Per capita, contributions, and fees
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Grand LOdge per capita and contributions
Payments through Lodges f:i)~ Homes
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - Other Endowment Funds:
Contributions
Interest and dividends
Masonic Temple:
Interest
Memorial Temple operations

CAPITAL RECEIPTS, INCLUDING LOANS AND
CAPITAL GAINS:
Grand Lodge:
Gain on sale of securities
Bequests and contributions
Masonic Homes'- General Fund:
Gain on sale of securities
Bequests and contributions
Assignments by residents
Revaluation of certain co111111on stocks
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Bequests and contributions
Gain on sale of securities and real
estate
Masonic Homes - Other Endowment and
TrUst FUnds:
Gain on sale of securities
Received from residents for deposit
(net)
Memorial Temple:
Grand Lodge per capita and contributions
Bequests and individual contributions
Addition to Reserve for Renewals and
Replacements
Total Income and Capital
Receipts - Forward

YEAR ENDED

JUNE 301 12§1 JUNE 30 1 1960

•

319,345.68 $ 318,109.22
2~1612°:32

37 1262.oz
446,013.00
37,·459.33

:321~p·20

3:50,

2,72

320,14~.50

442,323.42

3~,4g .24
lo 12 :i:.z6
466124'.l:. 20
3881926.24

g'40.50
2112 3·22
221214.02

26132 110
261'.l'.;3;3.60

1021'.l'.68.~

2S9 124o.

1,86~.06

33~.50

l,~48.44

101168 .12
1031223.18

11:31 2·:32
112.2gz.z2

112381066.64

1134'.l'.128'.l:,82

44,197,25

29,971.17
211666.66
211631.S3
294,992,83
262,766.77
409,510.20

44119'7.22
9,190.51
667,901.19
443,805,85
136 1122.00
1125'.l'.1626.22
84o,927.88
423 1013.n
112931941.52
14,926.68

96z,262.so
738,671.44
213,426.05
922 1127.49
41,327.16
(545.76)
40,z81.4o

8 1088.22
231014.93
304,687,00
48,224.40

301,788.00
40,704.41

1 1036.oo
353124z.4o

1,122.00
3431644.41

$4 1 210 1864.36 $3,'.l'.03 1448.78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE P', & A. M, OF' CALIP'ORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

Page 2

SUMMARY OF .'.RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS COMPARATIVE
Total Income and Capita l
Receip ts - Forwar d
EXPENSE DISBURSEMENTS:
Grand Lodge:
Opera ting expens e
Masonic Homes - Genera l Fund:
Opera tion or Homes and outsid e relier
Admin istrativ e and genera l expens e
Retire ment income plan
Masonic Homes - Endowment and Trust Funds:
Schola rships
Misce llaneo us
Memorial Temple:
Admin istrati ve and genera l expens e
Memorial Temple operat ions
Intere st on notes payab le
Transr erred to Reserv e ror Renewals and
Replac ements
Total Opera ting Expens es
EXPENSES CHARGED TO RESERVES FOR SPECIAL
PURPOSES:
Masonic Homes:
Replac ements to Homes
Funera l expens e
Entert ainme nt expens e
Grants to reside nts
Misce llaneo us
EXPENSES CHARGED TO FUND BALANCE:
Grand Lodge:
Retire ment pensio n plan costs
Total Expens es
NET INCREASE IN CAPITAL

DATES AS SHOWN
YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 1961

JUNE 30,

$4.510 ,864.3 6

$3.703 ,448.7 8

344124 6.68

2921186.11

1,051, 825.08
146,35 4.34
261468.21
1 1 224 164z.63

911,11 1.76
127,35 4.65
l:l'. 1606,61.
1 1026 1 oz3.02
2,057, 00
1,320. 00
3140z. oo

11320. 00
1,320. 00
~,360.95

11 ,963.1 7
65,751 .52

'

YEAR ENDED
1960

6,968. 23
lll,65 1.44
75,95i .60

11036. 00
123,11 1.64
l,z641 055. 25

1,122. 00
1921z2 3.2z
l,550, 282.40

28,655 ,38
9, 464. 27
20,115 ,76
52,008 .00
21122. 22
112.26 2.00

99,858 .94
11,020 .78
l0,760 .62

8,6 2·42
1Bl,OQ'7.zg

1,880, 024.22

421300.00
11z:r4 ,38z.12

$216~018~9.41

$119221061.~2

50,7~2.oo

The forego ing net increa se
capita l during the year ended
June 30, 1961, and year ended June 30,in1960,
is accoun ted for as follow s:
Changes increa sing fund balanc es:
Increa se in cash on depos it in banks
$ 536,08 7.07 $ 107 ,096.2 1
Increa se in secur ities owned
1,608, 033,47
294,10 2.51
Increa se in buildi ngs and equipment
201,97 6,72
1,372, 115.28
Decrea se in loans from banks
270,00 0.00
300,00 0.00
Decrea se in contra ct payabl e
4z,202 .oo
2,073.
21663,
314.00
222.26
Changes decrea sing fund balanc es:
Decrea se in miscel laneou s assets , net
25,390 .53
25,496 .41
Increa se in contra ct payabl e
118,75 6.00
Increa se in sundry liabil ities
71362-~2
1441222.41
32,z2 2.2
NET INCREASE IN FUND BALANCES,
AS ABOVE

85

REP ORT OF GRA ND SECR ETA RY
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. o A. M. of Califo
rnia:
In prese nting my first annua l repor t as your Grand Secre
tary I wish
to emphasize that this past year has been a most active
one.
The real task of the Gran d Secre tary has tradit ionall
y been the
implied dema nd of exercising a sixth sense to recognize
the needs of the
Gran d Lodge, where ver they exist, and to minister to
those needs . The
experiences of the past Maso nic year, which developed
throu gh this
dema nd, have contin ued to follow the patter n. New proble
ms, for which
there are no clear- cut solutions in the Code, have had
a way of prese nting themselves almost daily. There are no ready -made
answe rs. In addition to the many new ones, old problems with new
ramifications have
appea red for conclusion.
This, then, is the challe nge to the Gran d Secre tary and
his staff. It
is the solution of these every day problems which offers
the greate st
oppor tunity for service to the Frate rnity. With the
many and varied
duties and responsibilities of the office the possibilities
for service are
unlimited.
The attem pt to familiarize myself with all the detail
s of the office
has been a confining one. The rewar ds, however, in friend
ships formed
with so many of the finest men on earth, as they conta
ct our office,
makes each day's effort a real joy and privilege.
UNFIN ISHED BUSIN ESS

The following matte rs were contin ued from the last
Annu al Communication to tht'! prese nt one:
1. Grand Lodge Title, page 267, 1960 Proce eding s.
2. Maso nic Histo rical Monu ment, page 271 and 272,
1960 Proceed~
ings.
3. Political Activity, pages 268 and 269, 1960 Proceeding
s.
4. Schol arship Progr am, page 271, 1960 Proce eding s.
5. Trans fer of Temp le Fund s (Gran d Maste r's Decis
ion No. 5),
pages 252 and 253, 1960 Proceedings.
CHAN GE OF MEET ING PLAC E

Lemon Grove Lodg e No. 736 has chang ed its meeting
place from La
Mesa to Lemon Grove . Koolau Lodge No. 801 has chang
ed its meeting
place from Kaneohe to Kailua, Hawa ii.
These chang es of meeting place have been officially appro
ved under
the autho rity of the Gran d Maste r, and the Grand
Secre tary now
reque sts autho rity to prope rly endor se their Chart ers.
CONSO LIDAT ION OF LoDGE S

All requirements of the law respecting consolidatio

n having been

86

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

complied with by Bethlehem Lodge No. 453 and Crocker Lodge No.
454 on April 1, 1961, they consolidated with the approval of the Grand
Master, the Lodge to be known as Crocker Lodge No. 454 located at
Daly City.
The Grand Secretary requests authority to properly endorse these
Charters.
LoDGES UNDER DISPENSATION

The following Lodges under dispensation were instituted subsequent
to April 1, 1961, and prior to June 30, 1961 :
Camellia, Simi Valley and Conejo Valley.
Each of these Lodges collected a less amount of dues than the per
capita tax, and in accord with precedent the Grand Master, at our
suggestion, directed that they be not required to pay the per capita tax.
It is respectfully requested that this be approved.
MEMBERSHIP ANALYSIS

Again, as in past years, I present an analysis of the applications for
Degrees accepted during the year. As far as possible the same standards
were used for arriving at the occupations, and it is interesting to note
the changes over last year.
In presenting a membership analysis this year, we have again covered
only applicants for degrees. Part of the variance in percentages is due
to a closer adherence during this past year to a prescribed schedule of
designated occupations for clarification on the returns.
1961
1960
Age Groups
1961
1960
Occupations
21-29
16%
12% ·
12%
18%
Professional
35%
30-39
11 %
38%
16%
Executive
31%
40-49
16 %
29%
16 %
Sales & Clerical
14%
12%
50-59
40%
34%
Skilled Craftsmen
4%
60 and over
5%
3%
4%
Armed Forces
1%
1%
Retired
4%
4%
Police & Firemen
2%
3%
Public Utilities
4%
Government Service 3%
2%
2%
Student
1%
3%
Farmer
2%
3%
Unskilled
MEMBERSHIP

In presenting the membership figures this year I am using comparison
figures for the last forty years by ten-year periods beginning with 1921.
You will note that 1921 and 1951 show the largest number of initiates.
However, in 1961 we initiated more than in 1931 and 1941 and the
number of affiliates from other jurisdictions was the largest of the five

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

87

years shown. The gain in 1961 was only 1527, but it exceeds 1931 when
we had only 360 and 1941 when we had an actual Joss of 342.

Man~ Grand Lodges have been showing membership losses for
years. Figures prepared by the Conference of Grand Secretaries of
North America in February 1961 show New York with a total membership of 302,572 and a Joss of 2832, Pennsylvania with a membership
of 257,711 and a gain of 448, Ohio with a membership of 282,397 and
a loss of 396, IJlinois with a membership of 239,913 and a Joss of 3435,
and. Te~as with a membership of 244,078 and a gain of 1402. Only
California, Texas and Florida of the 49 jurisdictions in the United
States show a gain of more than one thousand members. California had
the largest gain with Florida, whose total membership is only 68,551,
a close second.
On the surface it appears that Masonry in California is losing ground
in membership in spite of the tremendous increase in population. However, we must remember that a great many of the people coming here
are women and children, none of whom are potential members. Many
are senior citizens hoping to establish the five year residence necessary to
qualify them for one of the highest old age pensions paid by any state
in the Union. Of this latter group it is a known fact that a number of
them are members of Lodges in other jurisdictions.
1921
1931
1941
1951
1961
New Lodges Formed
20
6
5
4,146
3,179
Initiated ----------'--------- 9,208
8,951
6,815
Passed ....................................... 8,908
4,321
3,031
8,745
6,589
Raised ........................................... 8,831
4,465
3,105
8,909
6,698
Affiliated .................. 1,324
1,228
885
1,941
2,404
Reinstated .............. ...............
303
246
539
395
367
Withdrawn .......................... 1,362
1,157
1,003
1,631
1,983
Suspended for NonPayment of dues....
386
2,602
1,660
826
1,449
Suspended or
ExpelJed for Cause..
13
43
18
29
35
Died ..........................
923
1,767
2,188
3,061
4,475
Number of Members 85,181 142,422 125,843 202,500 243,346*
Dues Remitted ..........
639
2,959
3,983
2,538
3,415
Gain .......................... 8,308
360
5,700
1,527
Loss ..........................................
342
Number of Lodges....
419
580
582
700**
611
*Plural Members
(Included in total)
1,448
*'*Excluded in total
( 4 Research Lodges) (Members 336)

88

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FEES FOR DEGREES
1960
1959
1958
Amount No. Lodges No. Lodges No. Lodges
92
99
$ 50.00
102
4
5
55.00
5
2
1
60.00
2
11
11
65.00
9
1
1
70.00
1
182
186
75.00
189
22
22
80.00
25
3
3
85.00
3
17
15
90.00
14
1
1
95.00
1
215
208
100.00
201
5
6
105.00
7
3
2
110.00
2
35
32
115.00
27
3
3
120.00
3
78
77
125.00
72
1
1
130.00
1
1
1
135.00
1
3
1
140.00
2
6
7
150.00
6
8
7
175.00
7
3
2
215.00
2
696
691
Total Lodges 582
$90.69
$89.58
Average
$88.80
ANNUAL DUES
1960
1959
1958
No.
Lodges
No.
Lodges
No. Lodges
140
188
249

Amount
$ 12.00
13.00
14.00
1
15.00
293
16.00
45
17.00
18.00
86
20.00
4
24.00
3
25.00
1
Total Lodges 682
Average
$14.45

NEwLoDGES

1961
No. Lodges
89
4

2
13
1
172

22
2
20
1
222
6
3
38
3
79
1
1
3
7
8
3
700
$91.11

1961
No.Lodges
121

1

1

1

316
52

320
62
2
151
16
3

308

1

117
10
3
2
691
$14.91

1

696
$15.33

89

64
2
177

22
4
1
700
$15.56

The following new Lodges were formed during the year
The Gabilan Lodge U. D., located at Salinas. Dispensation granted
October 19, 1960. The Lodge was instituted November 25, 1960, at
Salinas, Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand Master,
presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Eugene Eu en Dong ( Master), Elbert Howard Mayfield (Senior Warden). Roy Fred Wieneke
(Junior Warden). George Raymond Harter, Francis William Paul,
Ralph Beauchamp, Ray Paul Gammill, Herbert Chester Healy. William
Roy Willis, Herman Y ossem, Sidney Irving Grossman, Ernest Loree
Kaiser, Charlie Gatliff Phillips, Gus Leslie Boland, Sigmond Aidelberg.
James Afrian Jeffery, Frank Lamont Terry, Bruce William Robb,
Martin Herman Baker, Louis Nicholas Schallich, Josep'h Peter Mandi,
Clois Joe Hawkins, Jesse Woodrow Carson, William Paul Steitz, Wing
Lim, Victor Ballard Jewhurst, Richard John Repsher, Adolph Lewis
Rianda, LeRoy Hall, Allen Jessie Steitz, Clell Cotrell, Donald Walker
Drew, William Robert De Hart, Guy Bartlett Collins, Edward Joseph
Gans, George Herbert Fishel, Eli Hinton Boozer, Marley Elden
Johnson, Lewis Carl Bergloff, Ray E. Husted, Richard Louis Schallich
and Richard Thomas Peaslee.
Moreno Valley Lodge U. D., located at Sunnymead. Dispensation
granted November 22, 1960. The Lodge was instituted December 3,
1960, at Sunnymead, Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand
Master, presidi?1g·
The Charter membership is as follows: Jesse Bernard Banta (Master) , Janus Christian Ishoy (Senior Warden), Robert Gilman Wass
IV (Junior Warden). Fred Edwin Chappell, William Herman Ward,
Zachary James Cossma, James Elfenbein Lewis, Edward Isaac Musliner,
William Christie, Jesse Carl Cummings, Harold Eugene Sexton, Burl
Edward White, Norman Hobbs Gray, Darwin Clair Wright, Simon
David Kurkjian, Joseph John Bergen, Jack LeRoy Ward, Roy Samuel
Thomas, Roy Lee Haggard, John Charles Swegles, Leo Harry Copeland, John Copil Motz, Warren Randolph Pool, James Quinn Liggett,
Wayne Leo Schooler, Joseph Albert Green, John Langdon Maxwell,
Thomas Homer Mullen, Jr., Roy Mitchel Reed, Sr., Robert Earl Montee, Joe Charles Sorbello, Guy Roger Graham, Joe Kendall, Ben Wilhelm, Clarence Arthur Tipton, Eddie Theodore Sutton, Lucky Wayne
Godwin and Jimmy Clarence Park.
Camellia Lodge U. D., located at Temple City. Dispensation granted
April 6, 1961. The Lodge was instituted May 1. 1961, at Temple City,
Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Mark Elmer Schrock (Mas-

91

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ter), Donald Ray Stroud (Senior Warden), Marion Donald Burke
(Junior Warden). John LeRoy Shaw, •C hester Harold Mau, Edwin
Gordon Huband, Merrill James Fitzjohn, Sidney Walter Howard,
Charles Henry Jackson, Glenn Meyer Hill. Robert Arthur Youmans.
Carl Lewis Clark, Richard Chester Konrad, Robert Long Bird, James
Robert Boren, Paul Boyd Holderman, William M. Evans, C1'ester
Whitaker Mills, Vance Roy Mulligan, William Cullen Bryant, Jimmie
Vincent Curley, James Bennie Mayberry, Thomas Frederick Johnston
McDuffie, Fred Walter Meredith, Vincent Milnor Nelsen, Harvey
Ernest Rodgers, Griffith G. Williams. Arthur Robert Wilson, James
Alfred Bongard, George Dewey LeCornu, John Ainsley Scott. Louis
Kaiser Randall. George Vinson Wooster, Leo Arthur Jenkins, Donald
Ray Johnson, Clinton Snow Tompkins and Thomas Donald Buchan.

Wilkins Harper, Kenneth Vernon Harris, Adelbert Franklin Johnson,
James Albert Jones, Jr., Bill Mecier, Lowell Herman Mainer. Carl
Herbert Miller, James Owen Moore, Thomas Harrison Moore, Elmer
Donald Morehead, Gene Earl Owens, Harlan Fenler Powell, Gilbert
G. Smith, Olin Forest Stairs, Hugo Alfred Swanson, Herbert Lee
Thomas, Francis Leroy Tibbels, Robert Everett Turner, Robert Morse
Ward, Frank Harper Wisner, Leroy George Wurst, Richard Allen
Young and Cecil Victor Bridges.
Scepter Lodge U. D., located at West Sacramento. Dispensatio n
granted June 23, 1961. The Lodge was instituted July 14, 1961, at
Sacramento, Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand Master,
presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Valery Michael Riman (Master), Enea Angelo Bettati (Senior Warden) , Richard Virgil Stall
(Junior Warden), Claud Raymond Oswalt, Vance Albert Turner,
Maurice Mercer Webster. Alex Sherwood Craighton, Charles Harry
Moore, Francis Joseph Styler, Kenneth Alvin Anderson, Willis Lamont
Sjurson, Allan Kincaid Fyfe, George A. Apostolos, Arthur Wilson
Mohn, Annis Alfred Smith, Charles Danforth McReynolds, Roy S.
Milanovich, Carroll Boyce Kurtz, Arthur Joseph Bettati, Ralph William
Bonetti, Alexander John Klistiff, Robert Holden Dawson, James Merril
Compton, Roy Elsworth Walker, George Emanuel Vavuris, Robert
Franklin Hocker, John Reuter, Harold Norman Benton, Ernest Prescott
Newman, Morseman Junior Blodgett, Elmer William Perry, Miller
Martin Staley, Stephen Wayne Tye, Harry Wilhelm Johnson, Robert
Lee Morehead, Carleton Bryan Rogers, George John Triphon, Percy
Lane Young, Harry Willis McCurry, James T. Miller, Paul Frederick
Miller, Robert Arthur Miller, Albert Alexander Whited, James William
Cameron, Lionel Burgess Anderson, Thomas Orval Hurlburt, Frederick
Clinton Murphy, Eric Christopher Hughes, Charles Ralph Johnsen and
Virgil Ray Smith.

90

Simi Valley Lodge U. D., located at Simi. Dispensatio n granted
April 17, 1961. The Lodge was instituted May 10, 1961, at Simi, Most
Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: William Wayne Hanson
(Master), Aubrey Patterson (Senior Warden), Donald Francis Patterson (Junior Warden) , Otha Lelon Barnard. Clinton Harold Bull,
Arthur Raymond Burk, Wayne LaVerne Butterbaugh . Raymond Loyd
Clifton, Wade Everett DeVries, Arthur Edwin Earll, Wiley Thomas
Forson, Wade Ashby Gardner, Elliott Albert Harris, Thomas Grady
Harrison, Charles Reuben Havens, Max Orrie Hughes, Lloyd V.
Johnson, Conrad Charles LaCarre, Howard Timothy Lawrence, Almon
Dewey Mahan, Paul Overend Morton, Edward Aubrey Naylor, Royal
Henry O'Brien. Alfred Walter Payne, Richard L. C. Reason, Lester
C. Reed, Bill Bunker Robertson, Tom Jewel Simmons, David Lamb
Strathearn, Sidney Sundin, Rufus Hoyt Templeman , Samuel Ernest
Turner, Galt Levi Whipple, John Cecil Willard. Jack Warren Wilson,
and Franklin Curtis Yancy.
Conejo Valley Lodge U. D., located at Thousand Oaks. Dispensation granted April 25, 1961. The Lodge was instituted May 16, 1961
at Thousand Oaks, Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand
Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Frank Thurman Roberts
(Master), Cecil Amos Brann (Senior Warden), Theodore Bruce Baker
(Junior Warden), Harry Eugene Kelley, Harold Lee Retan, Willie
Munroe Weems, Walter Albert King, Stanley William Pine, William
Campbell Ferguson, Ray Edward Strite, Cecil Howard Williams,
Kenneth Guy McKenzie, William Arvie Dodd, Franklin Adreon,
Robert Louis Brumm, Henry Buchner, William Marshall Burns, Marvin
William Burow, John Edward Carroll, Walter Herman Fretz, Eugene
Louis Goebel, Louis Justine Goebel, William Joseph Hanna, James

DISPENSATIO NS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Eureka No.
16: Suisun No. 55: Union No. 58: Woodridge No. 131: Pacific No.
136: Grafton No. 141: Lassen No. 149: Sierra Valley No. 184: Solano
No. 229: Hills Ferry No. 236: Alturas No. 248: North East No. 266:
Brentwood No. 345: San Francisco No. 360: Imperial No. 390: Eagle
Rock No. 422: Hammonton No. 433: Tyrian No. 439; Crocker No.
454: Chateau Thierry No. 569; Los Cerritos No. 674: Crossroads No.
696: Santa Ynez No. 701: Lorenzo No. 709.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Los Gatos No. 292:
le Progres de L'Oceanie No. 371: Schofield No. 443: Henry Morse

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Stephens No. 541: Merced No. 749: General Henry H. Arnold No. 791.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: LaFayette
No. 126: Liberty No. 299; Balder No. 393: Burbank No. 406: Hammonton No. 433: Magnolia Park No. 715: San Pablo No. 754: American
River No. 795; Yucca Valley U.D.
Special permission for conferring of degrees: Anchor No. 273;
le Progres de L'Oceanie No. 371: Clovis No. 417: Torrance No. 447:
Culver City No. 467: San Gabriel No. 546: West Adams No. 565: Big
Bear No. 617: Menorah No. 623.
Miscellaneous: Lakeside No. 760.

$18.00: Durant No. 268, to $18.00: Callayomi No. 282, to $18.00;
Liberty No. 299, to $18.00: Redlands No. 300, to $18.00; Norwalk No.
315, to $15.00; Emmanuel No. 318, to $15.00: Carquinez No. 337, to
$15.00: Fullerton No. 339, to $15.00: Las Palmas No. 366, to $20.00:
Unity No. 368, to $18.00; Imperial No. 390, to $18.00: Rising Light
No. 397, to $15.00; Charter Rock No. 410, to $18.00: Elysian No. 418,
to $20.00; York No. 423, to $18.00: Hammonton No. 433, to $16.00;
Libertas No. 466, to $18.00: America No. 475, to $18.00: Mt. Davidson
No. 481, to $21.00; Albert Pike No. 484, to $18.00; Chowchilla No.
485, to $16.00: Seaside No. 504, to $18.00: Euclid No. 519, to $18.00;
Azure No. 533, to $15.00: Henry Morse Stephens No. 541. to $16.00:
North Hollywood No. 542, to $20.00: James Madison No. 572, to
$15.00; Provident No. 609, to $18.00: Hemet No. 615, to $18.00; Fairview No. 629, to $18.00: Ingleside No. 630, to $20.00: Riverside No.
635, to $18.00: Greenleaf No. 670, to $15.00; Laguna Beach No. 672,
to $18.00; Westchester No. 703, to $18.00: Magnolia Park No. 715, to
$18.00: Mineral King No. 720, to $20.00; San Ramon Valley No. 724,
to $18.00; Saint John's No. 725, to $18.00; Two Rivers No. 731, to
$16.00: La Canada No. 739, to $24.00: Soquel No. 746, to $15.00;
Claude H. Morrison No. 747, to $18.00; Clayton Valley No. 756, to
$18.00; La Mirada No. 778, to $18.00; EI Camino Research, to $10.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Lompoc No. 262: Burbank No.
406: Blackmer No. 442: Mt. Diablo No. 448: Utopia No. 537: Menorah
No. 623: Benevolence No. 631; Anacapa No. 710: Heritage No. 764:
William Rhodes Hervey No. 767; Mt. Wilson No. 794; Southern California Research.
Changing tim~ of Stated Meeting: Orange Grove No. 293: Lynwood
No. 600; Westchester No. 703; Yucca Valley U.D.
Provision for legal holidays: Rose's Bar No. 89; Anchor No. 273;
Ramona No. 457: Manchester No. 585; Lynwood No. 600; Glassell
Park No. 605; Hunters Point Naval No. 706; Golden Bowl No. 755:
Mt. Wilson No. 794; As•hland No. 798.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Yount No. 12; Hawaiian No. 21; Texas
No. 46; Woodbridge No. 131: Evening Star No. 186: East Gate No.
290: le Progres de L'Oceanie No. 371: Imperial No. 390; EI Sereno No.
588; Glassell Park No. 605; The Gabilan U.D.; Moreno Valley U.D.:
Camellia U.D.; Simi Valley U.D.: Conejo Valley U.D.; Scepter U.D.
Re Charity Committee: Apollo No. 396: Woodstock No. 491.

LIFE MEMBERSHIP

Increasing fee: Hawaiian No. 21, to $315.00: Mountain View No.
194, to $312.50: Anaheim No. 207, to $400.00: Reading No. 254, to
$375.00; Redlands No. 300, to $375.00: Fullerton No. 339, to $325.00:
Imperial No. 390, to $500.00: Bay View No. 401, to $300.00; America
No. 475, to $375.00: Euclid No. 519, to $375.00: Fairview No. 629,
to $375.00; Riverside No. 635, to $375.00.
Fixing fee: La Jollh No. 518, at $500.00; Tila Pass No. 797, at
$375.00.
Rescinding fee: Liberty No. 299; Calexico No. 412: Albert Pike
No.484.
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Alameda No. 167, to $102.00: Anaheim No. 207,
to $105.00: Friendship No. 210, to $115.00: San Benito No. 211, to
$65.00: Hills Ferry No. 236, to $75.00: Callayomi No. 282, to $75.00:
Liberty No. 299, to $125.00: Norwalk No. 315, to $115.00; Fullerton
No. 339, to $100.00: Imperial No. 390, to $125.00; Arlington No. 414,
to $100.00: Elysian No. 418, to $150.00: America No. 475, to $115.00;
Azure No. 533, to $100.00: Provident No. 609, to $100.00; Hemet No.
615, to $90.00: Ingleside No. 630, to $90.00: Anacapa No. 710, to
$100.00.
Decreasing fees: Maui No. 472, to $50.00: Three Pillars No. 613
to $100.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Callayomi No. 282, to $5.00: Liberty No. 299,
to $10.00; Westchester No. 703, to $5.00.
Decreasing afliiliation fee: EI Rancho No. 759, to $10.00; Riviera
No. 780, to $10.00.
Rescinding afliiliation fee: Hills Ferry No. 236: San Miguel No.
285; Provident No. 609; Big Bear No. 617; Citrol No. 656: Magnolia
Park No. 715: Koolau No. 801.
Increasing dues: Alameda No. 167, to $16.00; Anaheim No. 207,
to $18.00: San Benito No. 211, to $15.00: North Butte No. 230, to
$18.00; Surprise Valley No. 235, to $15.00: Reading No. 254, to

93

RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Los Angeles No. 42: Pentalpha No. 202:
Lompoc No. 262: Sisson No. 310; Oxnard No. 341: Palestine No. 351:
Las Palmas No. 366; Henry S. Orme No. 458; Mount Olive No. 506;
La Jolla No. 518: Loyalty No. 529: Manchester No. 585; Menorah

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 623: Henry Knox No. 662: San Gorgonio No. 668: Orinda No.
704: Anacapa No. 710: Blue Lakes No. 714: Lemon Grove No. 736:
San Pablo No. 754; Arabic No. 763; Heritage No. 764: William Rhodes
Hervey No. 767: Koolau No. 801.
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 1105-Petition for restoration. A member of Pacific Lodge No.
136. Expelled June 3, 1947.
No. 1141-Petition for restoration. A member of a New York Lodge.
Expelled June 11. 1948.
No. l l 4S--Petition for restoration. An Entered Apprentice of Whittier
Lodge No. 323. Suspended August 5, 1948.
No. 1157-Petition for restoration. A member of Downey Lodge No.
220. Expelled October 7, 1948.
No. 1316-Petition for restoration. A member of East Gate Lodge No.
290. Expelled October 2, 1952.
No. 1483-Petition for restoration. A member of Damascus Lodge No.
648. Expelled January 9, 1956.
No. 1530-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Suspended
February 7, 1957. Restored by Lodge June 1, 1961.
No. 1554-(Retria l). A member of Mendocino No. 179. Expelled
September 14, 1957.
No. 1594-Petition for restoration. A member of a North Carolina
Lodge. Expelled July 2, 1958.
No. 1595-(Retria l). A member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529. Expelled
January 5, 1960.
No. 1596-Petition for restoration. A member of Alcatraz Lodge No.
244. Expelled October 2, 1958.
No. 1597-Petition for restoration. A member of Alcatraz Lodge No.
244. Expelled October 2, 1958.
No. 1602-(Retria l). A member of Selma Lodge No. 277. Expelled
September 14, 1960.
No. 1607-Petition for restoration. A member of Fellowship Lodge
No. 480. Suspended September 2, 1958.
No. 1623-(Retria l). A member of Norwalk Lodge No. 315. Expelled April 5, 1960.
No. 1628-( Retrial). A member of Ashlar Lodge No. 306. Expelled
March 2, 1961.
No. 1630-Petition for restoration. A member of Fresno Lodge No.
247. Expelled June 12, 1959.
for restoration. A member of Torrance Lodge No.
1660-Petition
No.
447. Expelled June 12, 1959.
No. 1671-Petition for restoration. A member of South Park Lodge
No. 563. Expelled April 7, 1960.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

95

No. 1675-Petition for restoration. A member of Garvanza Lodge No.
492. Suspended May 3, 1960.
No. 1687-(Retria l). A member of Ingleside Lodge No. 630. Acquitted
December 6, 1960.
No. 1688-A member of Crocker Lodge No. 454. Expelled September
6, 1960.
member of Naval Lodge No. 87. Expelled October 6,
1690-A
No.
1960.
No. 1691-A member of Sunnyside Lodge No. 577. Acquitted November 7, 1960.
No. 1692-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled October 14,
1960.
No. 1693-A member of John D. Spreckles Lodge No. 657. Suspended
November 7, 1960.
No. 1694-A member of Utopia Lodge No. 547. Expelled October 6.
1960.
No. 169S--A member of Glendale Lodge No. 544. Expelled December
1, 1960.
No. 1696-A member of Lexington Lodge No. 104. Expelled December 5, 1960.
No. 1697-A Fellow Craft of Oceanside Lodge No. 381. Expelled
November 7, 1960.
No. 1698-A member of Modesto Lodge No. 675. Expelled Decem~
her 7, 1960.
No. 1699-A I!lember of El Cerrito Lodge No. 705. Expelled January
.
9, 1961.
No. 1700-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled January
6, 1961.
No. 1701-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Suspended
December 5. 1960.
No. 1702-A member of Bethlehem Lodge No. 453. Expelled January 5, 1961.
No. 1703-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Suspended
March 6, 1961.
No. 1704-A member of Harding Lodge No. 584. Suspended February 2, 1961.
No. 1705-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Suspended March
3. 1961.
No. 1706-A member of Crockett Lodge No. 139. Reprimand February 1, 1961.
member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632. Expelled
1707-A
No.
April 3, 1961.

96

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. 1708-A member of Arvin Lodge No. 738. Expelled March 13,
1961.
No. 1709-A member of Lakeside Lodge No. 760. Expelled April 14,
1961.
No. 1710---A dimitted member of a New York Lodge. Expelled April
6, 1961.
No. 1711-A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488. Acquitted October 13, 1960.
No. 1712-A member of Tujunga Lodge No. 592. Expelled January
3. 1961.
No. 1713-A member of Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361. Expelled May 2,
1961.
No. 1714-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Acquitted April
7. 1961.
No. 1715-A member of Downey Lodge No. 220. Expelled June 1.
1961.
No. 1716---A member of Monrovia Lodge No. 308. Expelled April
6, 1961.
No. 1717-An Entered Apprentice of Castro Valley Lodge No. 713.
Expelled April 6, 1961.
No. 1718-A member of Willits Lodge No. 365. Acquitted May 3,
1961.
No. 1719-An Entered Apprentice of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655.
Expelled June 5, 1961.
No. 1720---A member of Starr King Lodge No. 344. Reprimand July
5, 1961.
No. 1721-A member of John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669. Expelled June
6, 1961.
No. 1722-A member of Seaside Lodge No. 504. Expelled August 2,
1961.
No. 1723-An Entered Apprentice of Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511. Expelled July 11, 1961.
No. 1724-A member of Truckee Lodge No. 200. Expelled August
3, 1961.
No. 1725-A member of El Rancho Lodge No. 759. Expelled November 3, 1960.
No. 1726---A member of Fort Crook Lodge No. 575. Suspended May
9. 1961.
No. 1727-A member of South San Francisco Lodge No. 212. Expelled September 7, 1961.

97

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS

Issued September 1. 1960 through August 31, 1961 (553)
Total Issued to Date 7354
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Abbott, Jr., Frank Howard, Oakland No. 188 ________________________________________ Novemher 21, 1910
Abdun-nur, Assad Simon, Cahuenga No. 513 ______________________________________ November 8, 1909
Adams, Argus, Fullerton No. 339·------------------------------------------------------------0ctober 8, 1910
Adams, Fred, Guardian No. 596...----------------------------·-··-----·---------------------·January 25, 1911
Alexakis, Louis James, South Gate No. 320 ____________________________________________ September
25, 1907
Allen, Alexander, Queen Beach No. 540·--···----------·-----·------------------·-------.January 21, 1907
Allen, Franklin S .. Palo Alto No. 346-----------------------------------------------------June 20, 1911
Allison, Warren L., Belvedere No. 539 ____________________________________________________ May 10, 1911
Ailsworth, John Bo~d, Sequoia No. 349 .. --------------------------------------------···--May 22, 1911
Anderson, Charles udolph, Mission No. 169 ____________________________________ .tily 19, 1911
Anderson, Pearl Benjamin, Crossroads No. 696 .. -----------------------··--·------- arch 11, 1908
Appy, Carl Henri Victor, Glendora No. 404 __________________________________________ .Navember
17, 1908
Artru, Camille H., La Parfatte Union No. 17.________________________________________ December 16, 1910
Atran, Alex Julius, Arbuckle No. 182.......... _________________________________ ............ May 26, 1911
Austin, ~hn William Williams, San J~quin No. 19....----------------------·September 16, 1910
Awalt,
ester Frank, Mountain View No. 194·-------------·------------·-·----August 12, 1911

Bagby, Warren Winslow, San Pa~ual No. 452------------------------··---------·May 8, 1911
Bagley,lr., Daniel, Morning Star o. 68. ______________________________________________ September 15, 1910
Bailey, eonidas, North Star No. 91... _____________________________________________________June 12, 1909
Baker, Claud, King Solomon's No. 260.. ·-··----------------------------------------0ctober 7, 1910
Ball, Edward Porteus, Adin No. 250.................... __________________________________April 12, 1911
Barr, James Chester, Rising L~ht No. 397.________________________________________ March 25, 1910
Barraclough, George Alfred, lzpah No. 378________________________________ March 20, 1911
Bartell, Harry, Oak Grove No. 215.·-------------------------------------------------------.0ctober 27, 1910
Barthold, Robert Mathias, Oharter Rocle No. 410 ________________________________ 0ctober29, 1910
Bauer, Adolph Gustave, Yerba Buena No. 403 ...-----------------------------------·August 11, 1910
Baur, Frederick Carl, San Marino No. 685___________________________________________ September 21, 1910
Beatt.f' Edwin Robert, Center No. 465 ..--------------------------------------------------June 29, 1910
Bell, • Floyd, Charity No. 362 ____·---------·---------------------------------------------December 28, 1910
Bennett, Milton Wilson, Starr King No. 344 __________________________________________ 0ctober 26, 1910
Benton, Charles Herbert, Silver Gate No. 296 ______________________________________ June 9, 1911
Berg, Adolph, Crocket No. 139..---------------------------------------------------------------March 8, 1911
Bernasconi, Joseph James, Perris No. 41L _________________________________________ .April 18, 1911
Bertz, Walter Gustave, Pentalpha No. 202 _____________________________________________April 29, 1910
Binkley, Tholow, Three Pillars No. 613---------------------------------------------···-April 8, 1911
Bird, William George Messen, Park No. 449.. ________________________________________August 23, 1910
Birnie, Charles James, Honolulu No. 409 _____________________________________________ November 30, 1909
Blanford, Eli Murray, Bethlehem No. 453 ___________________________________________ June 13, 1910
Blee, Harry Harmon, Palo Alto No. 346-------------------------------------------------November 11, 1910
Bliss. William Arnold, Fairfax No. 556..·--·---------------------------------------------March 16, 1911
Blois, James B~n, Palo Alto No. 346·--------------------·-···-------------·---------April 24, 1911
Blunck, John rederick, Brooklyn No.
225 _____________________________________________ .April 25, 1911
Boeck, Percy Albert, San Marino No. 685 ___________________________________________ June 24, 1910
Boerke, Francis Edward, Paul Revere No. 462.·--·------------------------------·-·0ctober 1. 1910
Bog3:s, Charles Alvin, South Gate No. 320 ________________________________________ 0ctober 29,·1910
Bor son, Benjamin, Temple No. 14 __________________________________________________________ February 20, 1910
Bowman, Thomas, Santa Rosa No. 57·----··---------------------------------·--·-···--·June 10, 1899
Boyer, Merrick Blaine, Guardian
No. 596 ______________________________________________ June 24, 1910
Brainerd, Herbert Kitterid~ San Francisco No. 360........................... June 9, 1910
Branch, Kenneth Melrose, isalia No. 128..........------------------------------····ti°e 24, 1911
Brassington, Edwin G., Oceanside No. 381_______________________________________ ay 1, 1911
~razelton, Marion William, Vacaville No. 134...................................... April 27, 1909
rlillant, Jesse Josephus, Bay City No. 526.. ·-----------------·-···-··-May 29, 1911

98

NAME AND LODGE

99

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Brooks, George Waddell, Silver Gate No. 296-----------------------------------·July 22, 1910
Brown, Bennie, Provident No. 609--------------------------------------------------June 23, 1910
Brown, Elmore William, Carquinez No. 331----··----·-------··------------··------May 18, 1911
Brown, Frank Lusby, Marin No. 191...-----------------------------------------July 5, 1910
Brown, Howard Blackman, San Pasqual No. 452-------------------------.June 22, 1911
Brown, Samuel Barton, West Lake No. 392----------------------------------May 29, 1911
Brown, Thomas, Naval No. 87....---····---··---····-----·--------·······------······----····-December 3, 1910
Brown, William Enoch. Coalinga No. 387·-··--···-·-··--···----··----··----···-----March 22, 1900
Brownton, Leighton Copeland, Friendship No. 210.....-------··----------·-----December 15, 1910
Brunson, Emery Allen, Needles No. 326...------·-··--·-·····----···--·--··--···-·-·March 2, 1911
Buckman, Jr., Clem T., Exeter No. 424 ..·-······---·-·--·······---··-----·-····------···-·April 12, 1911
Buckman, Howard Spencer, Lompoc No. 262....------------------···------------·June 23, 1911
Burgess, Ezra Ottley, Alamo No. 122.....---····--·····-···-------·-····---------·--------August 19, 1910
Burgess, Stanley Kenneth, University No. 394.. -----·-----·--··----·---···-·-----·-·April 26, 1910
Burgh, Gustav Joseph, Charter Rock No. 410. ..-------··-·---···--···-··---···-··-·March 18, 1909
Burson, Albert Lewis, Unity No. 368..........-·-····-··---···------···-----··-·····---····February 14, 1908
Burton, Robert Emil, Santa Cruz No. 38 .........-------···-······--------··----·----March 27, 1911
Butler, Seth Lake, Amity No. 370..---·-························--··---·······-·---·-·········0ctd>er 28, 1910

Cadby, John Nel500, Redlands No. 300...---·····-····-··---·····-----···--···--·····---July 29, 1910
Campbell, S. Earl, Fillmore No. 379.. ·--··-------------··----------··---·--··----August 26, 1909
Carr, Jesse Aubrey, Temblor No. 477......----···--···---···--·····-··-·--·········--·-··Septemher 27, 1910
Cary, Frank Monroe, Woodbridge No. 13L.. ______ ..................------··------December 10, 1910
Case, Archer Morton, .A4'cadla No. 547....---·····-···-·-··--·------···-----···-···--·---May 4, 1910
Chapman, James, Pasadena No. 272......--·--····-···-·--··--···-·-----------------·February 17, 1911
Christensen, Harry Nicoli, Fairfax No. 556... ·-·-·········-··----···-···---·-········-lune 14, 1910
Chrystal, James, Honolulu No. 409....--·--·-··--········--····-·······--··--·····--·····---·November 26, 1907
Citizen, Theodore Lea, Sojourner No. 607..... ·-·--·-·········---···--·······--····--··December 10, 1910
Clark, David Allen, Thousand Oaks No. 478.. ·-··----················--·····-··--November 25, 1910
Clark, James Albert, Adin No. 250.......... ·---····--···············-······----······-·--··-August 5, 1911
Clark, James Walter, West Lake No. 392.-----··--··-·····-----------·········-----January 7, 1907
Clarke, Fred "B'', Long Beach No. 327·-·---··--··---··-··-··-·---------····-----····---·August 27, 1910
Clarke, William, San Mateo No. 226·-----··--·-----···-----·····--····-··-------·November 17, 1910
Clarkson, Charles, Oriental No. 144:.... ·---·-····----·-···----········--------------·-----0otober 25, 1910
Coburn. Grover Hood, Paro Robles No. 286..--------------····--···-------·-··----May 18, 1910
Cocke, Hugh, West Los Angeles No. 373... ·----····-·---·····-···-----····-·--··----·May I. 1911
Cockerham, James Henderson, Garden Grove No. 586...---··-------···---July 9, 1910
Oolberg, Henry.John, San Joaquin No. 19-----·---··--·-·-·------··--·------·----------·0ctober 31, 1910
Collins, John William, Hornitos No. 98 ...·--···------·-··-·---·---------·-··--·----··0ctober I. 1910
Collister, Lloyd French, Yerba Buena No. 403·-·--··-·-·---·····---···--···---------June 15, 1911
Colman. Ellis, Fidelity No. 120...------··---·--------·-·--······-··----·----·-···--January 26, 1911
Colton, Albert N .. Santa Monica No. 307..---··-··---·-----------·--·-··------ uly 29, 1910
Comlbs, Jerome Bert, Sequoia No. 349.....---····--··---··-----------------·····------·---.May 11. 1911
Compton, Roy Harper, Wilshire No. 44:5...---··-----------·--··--···-·----------·March 24, 1908
Conlisk, Raimon Francis, California No. 1----·--·-·--·----·-·-------------------------·September 22, 1910
Connelly, Chester Irwin, Roseville No. 222......-----·····-----------···-------·-····May 31, 1911
Cooke, John George, Chico No. 11
25, 1911
c.oombs, St. Elmo Luther, Corona No. 324-------------------------------------December 27, 1910
Cord, Arthur Edwin, Chula Vista No. 626-------------------------------November 7, 1910
Cornett, lngolf Brewer, Salinas No. ™------------------------------------September 2, 1910
Countryman, Russell Louis, Yer'ba Buena No. 403.---------·--------·-------·August 17, 1911
Oox, William 'Thorburn, Friendship No. 210.------------------------------J.uly 27, 1911
Crellin. Earle Adair, Burlingame No. 400-------------------·--------.MaY 13, 1911
Cronkite, Oarence Edgar, Wilshire No. 445..
23, 1911
Croyle, George Samuel, Clovis No. 411------------------------------------.May 27, 1910
Crozier, Alfred Bernard. Semper Vireos No. 552.---------------------------------August 8, 1905
Gummings, Alton Buel, Silver Gate No. 296----------------------------July 28, 1911
Currey, Rebert Speocer, Silveyville No. 20 L--------------------------------------1 anuary 3, 1911

L----------------------------------.March

-----------------------------------TBDuary

DATE OP RAISING

8urs?~ ~lcholas Wd;c?ff• 'YV'oodland No. 156 ...................................... .November 25, 1910

Curt~,

p

1pe Pena, ahfonua No. L--····--·--············-·····-···-···········----····September 29, 1910
o:l·s, au! Edward, Los Gatos No. 292.·--·-····-·-····----··-·-·---········--···-·.April 8, 1911
D m, ~nk ~d, Parnassus No. 388 .............................................May 4, 1911
Dav!Ar gar
ge, San Diego No. 35.. ·---······-··-·-····-······-········------·May 13, 1911
Day, Be thur William, Ocean Park No. 369...... ·-····-·············-··········------·iune 24, 1911
Day, v;.amln Robert, Garden Grove No. 586 ........-----·-················--··-- anuary 22, 19()1}
D eB, k gliam, Golden Gate No. 30·----·-·····--············-··--··-·····--·····--····--· une 13, 1911
De B ac , J!'ert, Franklin No. 143.......................................................... anuary 26, 1911
De J raal, ~am, Bay View No. 40L... ·-·······---·······-·-·-········--···--····--··August 3, 1911
De esMp,
zo, Coronado No. 44:1..................................................... November 19, 1906
Derr, wiwell Lloyd, Pasadena No. 272·--···-····-········---··-····-······------·.August 5, 1910
DeS II a~~ Weddigen, Mill Valley No. 356....................................... January 2, 1911
D ebbj eJ,
rles Ellis, ~harity No. 362.·-·-····--···········-···················------.January 23, 1911
D!U
pcl_s~obert, L1bert~s No. 466..... ·---··················-·-·-···············--·September 5, 1902
D~ j
I nzo, Yosemite No. 99.·-----·····------······--·----·-·--··--------June 10, 1911
D mg e,
~s scar, Woodland No. 156..............-·--··-----·······-····-------.March 30, 1911
~morb
rge Hollister, Solano No. 229·---····-········-·········-·······-··---August 1. 1910
D ~ Rver fleveiand, All States No. 593.......................................August 10, 1910
~ns
y, Wdol , Dunsmir No. 297.........................................................August 4, 1910
1
Do ov~, Lilliam Gould, Saniose No. 10............................... - ............January 23, 1911
Dr t~ achoVJ.t.Fort Crook o. 575....................................................April 10, 1910
D a ovb dI 1i:}~m, Amador No. 65.................................................... 0ctober 25, 1910
~~can, Gru eyD 100, West Lake No. 392............................................ November 21, 1910
D ap,J It!°t, f urant No. 268..........·-············-····---···---··-·-···············--·July 25, 1911
yson, o Al red, Hollenbeck No. 319.................................................July 28, 1910

d•Oh

0

~e, ~bet~·ifthur, Provident No. 609 .... ·-····--··------··----··········-----------·-·May 13, 1911
Ehwah s, Cl tf: Eliott, San Mateo No. 226........................................... March 30, 1911
EllrenR
i n Charles, Ocean Park No. 369 ................................... August 30, 1910
Ellis, 'a cJ:ard, Normal Heights No. 632 ..........................................Mardl 9, 1911
E ho~, eai!AJ~erbert, Monrovia No. 308___________ ·------·-----------·----.May 10, 1911
Esc en
r, I. {adena No. 678 ........................................................... June 20, 1910
verson,
arles, erba Buena No. 403............................................ ____ .August 17, 1911

j\
ii

Ch

~~rj~ilvio, Speranza ltaliana No. 219-------------------------------------------·-May 26, 1910

hfuliR
Robjdt, El Centro No. 38L.. ·--···-············--··--··-·--···-··········-May 15, 1908
, S egina Percy, South Gate No. 320...................................... April 29, 1910
Fannmg,ch°il~~~· Ocean Park No. 369 __ ····------·-----·----·-··-·--·-··--··May 24, 1910
FarroAndr ar W ilham, Parnassus No. 388·--···--··-·----------····--··-·········.November 29, 1910
Feist, . e; i11iamWCovlna No. 334·-········-·-··----·----------··--·----·----.lune 10, 1911

R
Pait .

Ffttlaman,J rankll·•
est Lake No. 392.... ·---··-·--····-----------·-····-·-·-·--··November 26, 1910
F' ayM, amCs exander, Richmond No. 375·-··-----------·····--···-····-----·November 30, 1910
F:hus, ChteH ., La Habra No. 659................. --·--··-··---···--·-·-····--·-·--·August 31, 1911
Fis ei'.i aS Janesville No. 232.·--·-·-····---·····------·--···-----·-·····-··----·····-~Y 8, 1911
Fl st, ·~
yaltfr No: 529·-·····-···--··--················--···-····-··-·······-···-··-· une 23, 1911
Fi8ws, S
ew, unting:ton Beach No. 380·--·--····-----·--··-····-··----··· uly 27, 1910
F ory, Thuel, FEil~ No. 339·-----·------··--····-·····--···--·-·--···-·····------·· ay 6, 1911
Foster,
oma.s .,
ina No. 334·-······-·----·---·-·--·-··---·····-··-··············May 4, 1906
Frame, ~sse E1dfii Porterville No. 303................................................. .0ctober 27, 1910
eetwlood, La Habra No. 659....·-···---··-·····--·········-.August 20, 1908
Frantz, J~mH
Fraedb,
·w<?nlulu No. 409..... ·-·--·-·····-·-----·····-·---·····-···············---·---·-November 26, 1910
Fr!sbi erl!Jer,
San Jo~n No. 19..·---·-·····-··--·-········-··········-····November 2, 1910
n e, enry · r es, West ake No. 392.......................................... December 1909
~uendeling, Louis Wilhelm Theodore, Presidio No. 354-------------···----.September 29, 1910
ugler, Ernest Charles, Naval No. 81------------------------------------------·September 13, 1910
~ulltt, Can-oil Millett, Hemet No. 61L--------------------------------------November 26, 1910
urbus.h, William Morey, California No. L-----··----------------------·-----------September 5, 1907

Andr

a!ai'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

100

101

PROCEEDING S OF THE
NAME AND LODGE
NAME AND LODGE

DATE ep RAISING

Gaige, Howard Albert. Temple No. H---·-·-·-····· -·····-··-··--··· ··November 5, 1910
Gardner, James Carson. Dunsmuir No. 297.•.·--····-·--··-···· -····-····-··Febr uary 2, 1911
Gear.Ing, Fred. Excelsior No. 166---··· --·-··-·········- ···········-···December 14, 1910
Geisenhofer, Rudolph William Andrew, Eden No. 113.....- ................-May 17, 1910
Gibbs, Buchel Beaumont, Montebello No. 451 ...........- ...........................September 20, 1910
Ginsbach, Adam H., Rising Light No. 397.·-···-···-·-········-·--··--··· .......... July 24, 1905
Given, Donald Robert, Liberty No. 299 ...........- ......................................December 27, 1910
GlaM, Roy_ Everett, Southland No. 618 ................·-·-··--··-···--·····-········August 2, 1910
Godfrey, Win, Maricopa No. 434 ............................................................ November 10, 1910
Godwin, George Albert. Golden State No. 358·-·--····-········---············-July 7, 1910
Goggin, John, Moneta No. 405 ................................................................. August 12, 1911
GOOdlad, Clarence Erle, Hollywood No. 355... ---·--·······-··········-····--···July 28, 1910
Goold, George Rollin, Delta No. 471.......................................................September 29, 1910
Gorman. James Aylward, Excelsior No. 166...........................................December H, 1910
Goss, Jr .. William Henry, Hammonton No. 433.....................................March 11, 1911
24, 1910
Graham, Thomas, Schofield No. 443 ..·-··············-·······--·····-··-······-··-···February
Green, Harry Ellsworth, Y erba Buena No. 403......................................F ebruary 23, 1911
Greene, Thomas Bidwell. Vesper No. 84.................. ·-····-··-·················.December 7, 1910
Greenlee, Frank Mitchell. John P. Jarman No. 669.................................0ctober 22. 1910
Groninger, Warren J., Phoenix No. 178......·-··-················-················-·Ma y 29, 1911
Guptill, Granville LeRoy, Tyre No. 74L ............................................. .June 5, 1911
Haberdier, Oliver Amrose, Friendship No. 210.......................- .............May 11. 1911
Hagemann, Henry F .. Hermann No. 127....·-······································-··February 27, 1911
1910
Handlery, Harry, Solano No. 229 ................ ·-············-··-···--·-········-·--··.December 8, 1910
Hanks, Roy W .. Belmont Shore No. 716.................................................0ctober 29,
1911
Hannington, Horace, Inglewood No. 421.....---···-········-··--···················July 12,
Hansen, James Peter, In~lewood No. 421................................................July 12, 1911
20, 1910
September
........
.........................
Harmer, Clyde Newton, Normal Heiahts No. 632
Harshbarger, Charles Arthur, South Gate No. 320................................ ~ly 22, 1910
Hartman, Elmer W ., Oxnard No. 341 ....·-····--··············--····-····-··-------- ovember 12, 1910
Hasshieder, Charles F., Covina No. 334................................................. .December 10, 1910
Hassinq_er, Thomas Hamilton, Ocean Park No. 369.... ---------···-----····---August 30, 1910
Hause, Jr., Edward Washington. Amity No. 370................................... November 11, 1910
12, 1910
Hayden, Charles Wilbur, Acorn No. 494 ....----··-·-····--····-·----····--···-··-··November 1911
Heam, Jahn Walter, Sunset No. 352....................................................... Ma~ch 24,
10, 1911
Heilbron, Fred A., San Diego No. 35.----········---·················-····-- ··-······April
Helferich, Harry_ Wallace, Glendale No. 544 .......................................... June 22, 1909
11, 1910
August
................
Hencken, John Martin, Y erba Buena No. 403.........................
Henry, Everett Wilber, Upland No. 419................................................ March 9, 1911
Herbeck, Frank Leslie, Mariposa No. 24 ................................................. k'.fne 2, 1910
Heth, Miller Verne, Azusa No. 305........................................... ............... arch 6, 1911
Heuser, Charles Ulrich, Unity No. 368....·--··-····-····--··-··---··········-···March 20, 1911
Hill, Elmer Leslie, Santa Cruz No. 38...·--····-···-······· ·-····-··-···-···- .Aprll 18, 1911
Hirschfeld. Monroe Louis, Fruitvale No. 336..........-·-······················-··May 6, 1911
Holton, Harry Wood, South Gate No. 320........·-·-···--·--···- ·-·----July 16, 1910
Homann, Ralph E., West Lake No. 392.................---·-··--··-····- ·-·-·Aprll 1, 1911
Hooper, John Raymond, King Solomon's No. 260...........- .....................May 15, 1911
Hopper, William Garrett, Hollenbeck No. 319..·--··--··---·· ··-··-June 27, 1911
Hornbeak, Hugh Harland, Porterville No. 303......·-····---·..-····-·····-Feb ruary 23, 1911
Horton, Roy Seaton, Santa Ana No. 241......·-·--··-····-······-··--··-····-September 9, 1910
Howard, Charles Prescott. Oakland No. 188..........................................April 22, 1911
Hubbard, Carson B., Rising Light No. 397..............................................July 25, 1911
Hubbel, Leroy Samuel, Golden Gate No. 30..................·-··-············-··-September 13, 1910
Huber, Philip, Bear Mountain No. 76...................................................... May 26, 1911
Hudson, Robert Henry, Pajaro No. 110....·-··-----····- ···-·---··Sep tember 28, 1910
....---···Mardi 2, 1911
Huebel, Walter R., Palestine No. 351-..•_ .
Hunewill, Stanley H., Alta No. 333.--···· -·---·----· ·---June 9, 19()1)

DATE OP RAISING

Hunter, Geo. Glass, Amity No. 370·-·--- ·-····-····- -···---January 14, 1909
Huntington, Edwin Green, Silver Gate No. 296...............·--······-·--·-Se pted>er 11, 1907
Inglis, William Eic'helberqe_r, Sau Joaquin No. 19...·-··-·-····-······-·--··-·November 7, 1910
Irwin, Robert, San Pedro No. 332....·---·····-···-······-············--········-··--·····December 4, 1910
Isbell, Elton Spencer. Highland Park No. 382..........·-···---····-····-····---Marcli 17, 1910
Iverson, William C., Reading No. 254-···············-························-········-July 8, 1911
eptember 22. 1910
acob, Ernest Albert, Elfisian No. 418.....-·--········-··········-·····-··-·---·······S
amieson, James Craig, onolulu No. 409............................................... March 20, 1911
efford, Frank Herbert, Concord No. 117................................................ August 30, 1909
ensen, Sr., James Johan, Balder No. 393................................................. November 26, 1909
27, 1911
epson, Arthur Lucien, Harding No. 584..... -----········-··-··-·········--·····-····-March
ohnson, Arthur William, La Jolla No. 518._ ........................ ..................July 14, 1910
24, 1911
ohnson, Emil E., Palestine No. 35L·--·--·-·················--···-············-··--··April
ohnson, Henry Alfred, Victorville No. 634........................................... .May 4, 1908
25, 1911
ohnson, Leo Garfield, South West No. 283·-··--··-·············-··-··········-·May22,
1911
ohnson, Willard Gallen, Alta Vista No. 464......................................... July
ohnston, Horace Everett, YerbaBuena No. 403................................... August 18, 1910
ones, Howard, Charter Rock No. 410.........---·····-····-·······-············----···-July 29, 1910
ones, J~es Everett. Infeo No. 221....·-··-···-·-··································--·····February 11, 1911
John Atlas, G endora No. 404....·-·········-······-·····--·······-·········June 9, 1910
ones,
ones, aul Howell, Big Bear No. 617..................................................... .May 2, 1911
ordan, Shubard Howard, Bear Mountain No. 76.... ·-········--··········--·····September 21, 1910
ose, James Baldwin, Rockridge No. 468.................................................July 5, 1911
5, 1908
Jung, William P., Utopia No. 537....·-----··········--···-············-··-··-----···August
Junker, Fred. Riclunond No. 375.-....- ......................................................0ctober 10, 1910

p''

·--··--·---~Y 27, 1911
Kaiser, Henry, Santa Cruz No. 38
Kapstein, Simon, Fidelity No. 120·-····-·-·····-·····················--·······-····-··· une 6, 1911
Kaufner, Bruno, Parnassus No. 388.•...•·-··-····-······-····-··-····--··-····-··· ay 16, 1911
Keen, Cassius Harland, University No. 394-···--·· ·---·-·---lu ne 5, 19116, 1908
Kennedy, Eugene lohn, Rivera No. 780.................................................. November
20, 1910
Ketchem, John Elwood. Bakersfield No. 224·-·-··········-·--·-·········-···········0ctober
Kiesslg, Harry Richard, Silver Gate No. 296..........................................June 28, 1906
22, 1903
Klaiber, Edward Charles, Tehama No. 3·-····-··-·--·······-····-···········-······May
Knighten, William White, Hollenbeck No. 319..................................... November 29, 1910
24, 1911
Kohn, Matt, Sisson No. 310......·-··--··-····-················-···--····--·····-··········May
Kropf, Louis L.. Alhambra No. 322.......................................................... April 13, 1911

Lalanne, Laurence Mariona, Burlingame No. 400.................................. September 13, 1910
Land, Walter, Oakland No. 188....·--··-··-·-····--··-·-··-·······-···-···--·-····-··April 8, 1911
Lane, Clyde Clarence, Hol_lywood No. 355............................................. April 30, 1909
Larson, Axel E., Alcatraz No. 244........................................................... January 26, 1911
22, 1910
Larson, Peter Adolph, San Pedro No. 332·--·-······-·-·-······················-··-December
Leachman, Ream Setrostris, Solano No. 229...........................................August 29, 1910
1911
Leffel, James Garfield, Sanger No. 316 ....·-·----·················--··-····-··-·-···May 29,
Lemen, Oscar Scott, Nicolaus No. 129............................. - ..................... April 10, 1911
Leon, Eyraud, Valle de France No. 329·-··-··········- ······-·············-·······-June 21, 1911
Leppo, Clyde Leroy, Golden State No. 358 ............................................ April 27, 1911
5, 1910
Lesoine, John Adam, South Gate No. 320·-··-····-···-········-··········-··········November
Lewis, Arthur Edward, Palo Alto No. 346..............................................April 11, 1911
ary 4, 1911
Lew~s. Joseph H .• Alamo No. 122·-··--·····-·-·--·········--···---·······---············Janu
Lewis. Thomas Henry, Redondo No. 328................................................0ctober 25, 1910
Lewman, Edgar Burdick, McKinley No. 347.. ·-··-··········-··-······-······-·.May 6, 1911
Lichtenberger, Henry Charles, Truckee No. 200.................................... 0ctober 7, 1909
Lisle, John Newton, Las Palmas No. 366.....-----··-··---···············-······-··-August 7, 1905
Lobenstein. Walter Henry, Moneta No. 405.......·-············-·-···-···-·········September 19, 1910

NAME AND LODGE

103

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

102

DATE OP RAISING

mber 10, 1910
Lockwood, Joseph Gardner, Hesperian No. 264.......... ·-····-··········-·-···Septe
Logan, Robert Clay, Unity No. 368........................................................•November 30, 1910
··-·.0ctober 13, 1910
Loitwood, Roy Howard, Lodi No. 256............ ·-································
Lucas, Albert Curtin, Lodi No. 256.......................................................... APril 27, 1911
Lunt, William Moore, Mission No. 169.·-··-············-··························-·.May 25, 1910
4, 1909
McCall, Thomas K.• Ocean Pam-k No. 369...............................................December
1911
McCandlish, Colin A .• Oxnard No. 341... ....- .........................................January 27,
1910
McClintock. Arthur Polk, Reseda No. 666..............................................February 14,
1910
McCumsey, William Harrison. Tehama No. 3.......................................December 19,
1911
McDonald, Albert Fulton, Downey No. 220.................................... .......March 11,1909
McDonald , John Herbert, Altadena No. 678 .......................................... April 14, 17, 1910
McKinney, William Hogg, Magnolia Park No. 715..............................December
6, 1906
McMullen, Sr.. Frank Wallace, University No. 394 ............................. Januar~
• 1910
McNary, William Campbell, Woodland No. 156.................................. May l 19,
1910
McNary, William Harold, Roseville No. 222.........................................March
1910
31,
March
.................
..................
..................
40
No.
o
Sacrament
d,
MacDonal
MacDonal d r., John D., Mendocino No. 179........................................June 27, 1910
-··November 1.9. 1910
MacDonneli. Archie Melville, Naval No. 87....·-·······························...
2, 1910
MacGrego r, Herbert George, E_lysian No. 418.................................... December1910
Maohe, Amerigo T., Vitruvius No. 145....... _......................................... .May 28, 1911
MacKay Ralph Stuart, Parnassus No. 388...- ........................................April 25, 27, 1911
MacKell:U.. John, Santa Barbara No. 192...........- ................................... February26, 1911
Magerstad t, Paul Erwin, Rockridge No. 468.........................................January
1910
Mallachowitz, Clyde Earl, Caledonia No. 486.......................................December 22,
1910
Mallery, Arthur G., San Bernardin o No. 348 ..........................................Septemberr 29,
1909
Malone, Roland Curtin, Gravel Range No. 59........................................Novembe 6,
i910
Mann, William Jacdb, East Belt No. 391-.......... _................................... November 10,
1
Marsh, Neil Haynes, West Lake No. 392......... _.................................... August 25, 19
····-····September 10, 1910
Martin, Fred Michael, McKinley No. 347.. ·-································
Martin, Gordon Robert, East Gate No. 290............................................ July 7, 19111908
Massi·ngham Paul Dudley, Oriental No. 144......................................... August 29, 12, 1910
Mathews, H~ Joseph, Sequoia No. 349............... _............................. December
Matthews Clyde Herbert, South Gate No. 320...................................... November 5, 1910
Mattson George O .• Pacific No. 136....................................................... April 11, 1911
1910
Mattson: Melbert Adolph, Concord No. 117.................................... ...... .December 13,
1911
Maxwell Robert Blaine, San Jose No. 10................................................March10,21,1911
Meyer, Goofrey, Altadena No. 678 ..................... _...................................May
1, 1911
Meyer, Louis, Silver Trowel No. 415...................................................... February1910
Meyers, Edward Frederick, Highland Park No. 382............................. May 26, 7, 1911
Millard Edward. Silver Trowel No. 415.................. .............................. January 191\
Miller, Charles Otto, Sunset No. 352.................- ....................................March 28, 29, 9 10
Miller, George Raymond. Golden Gate No. 30....................................... November 1908
Miller, Harry Irving, Delano No. 309......................................................March 17,
·······················February 22, 1910
Miller, Noah Lee, Woodland No. 156.·-··········-··-·········
1911
Miller, William Avery, Sunset No. 352...................................................March 28, 14.
1910
Mills, Harry Q., Rockridge No. 468................. _......................................December 17, 1911
Minkler, M. Jay, Fairmount No. 435....................................................... February
29. ~cxp
Montgomery, Arthur A .. Alhambra No. 322----·-································November
18, 1
Moore, Carl Radcliffe, Eden No. 113...........----·-······-··················-·····Feb~ 1909
Moore, Harry Chrisley, Victory No. 47L----··-···-····· ········-··--A pr:ll 2 •
Morgan, Frank Sproul, Unity No. 368-················································--December 20, 1910
Morgan George Alfred, Santa Cruz No. 38---······ ·-··-···-··· ·-··--AprU 28, 1911
Morgan: James Clark, Needles No. 326.·-··-··· ···--········· --·······-·-·- ..Apr:ll 5, 1909
Morgridge, George Burton, Sierra Madre No. 408..........·-···-······-·- --June 20, 1911
Marris, Chester Culwell, F11"ellli0nt No. 491--·-····· ·-·········-··· ······-··-··A prfl 25, 1911
Morrow, Frank Ellsworth, Lexington No. 1M.·-··-······························-Auguat 23, 1910
Mouser, Webster B.• Charter Rock No. oflO--··· ------····· ·-.:._Sep tember 21, 1910

John,

1

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Mugele, Ludwig, Hermann No. 127........................................................ .Tuly 17, 1911 1910
Mullins, Nonnan Anthony, Washingto n No. 20....................- .............. becember 22,
Mullineaux, Albert Billings, Blackmer No. 442 ...................................... November 5, 1910
Mugittroy d, My!?Jl D .• Culver City No. 467.........-·-·-·-···--·····--··-·········.M arch 30, 1911
Myler, Melvin W., Alhambra No. 322.... ·-······--···········-········-········-·····-·May 11, 1910
···March H. 1911
Neff, Corvin Perry, Friendsh11>. No. 210.·-···········-······························
Newman, EdWin S., Fidelity No. 120.............................................--·····tre 22, 1911
une 6, 1911
Newman, Oscar, Mendocino No. 179........·-····························-········-···
26, 1898
Newton, De Witt Perkins, San Pasqual No. 452.·-···············-··-··- ···· archmber
17, 1910
Newton, George William, San Diego No. 35..............·-··········---······-Septe
Nicol, James Rolph, Naval No. 81·-··-······································· ···--··-Apr il 6, 1911
1, 1910
Nottingham, Scott, Monte Vista No. 655........·-···-·························-··-·0ctober
Nutting, James Alexamler, Lassen No. H9..........----·····-· ····-····No vember 29, 1910
Offttman, William Henry, Santa Cruz No. 38 ....................................... 0ctober 15, 1910
Offner, Rueben, America No. 475....................................---···--·············-·.Septemher 13, 1910
Okell, Harold, Rising Light No. 397........................................................0ctober 4, 1910
13, 1910
Oldfield. Alfred Budd. Concord No. 117................................................. September1911
29,
.April
..................
.................
410.
No.
Rock
Charter
Edmonds,
Lester
Ollson.
Orr, John Adelma, Las Palmas No. 366.......................................- ..........March 15, 1907
Osborne, Gordon Charles, Richmond No. 375........................................ April 10, 1911
Osborn, Harold Higgins, Charter Rock No. 410................. ................... November 19, 1910
19, 1910
Park. William Henry, Mission No. 169...................................................0ctober
Parker, Elisha Bert, Charity No. 362....................................................... June 19, 1911 1910
26,
Paulson, Edwin Lauritz, St. Helena No. 93.............................................November
P.aulus, Arthur Clarence, Arcadia No. 547.............................................. April 19, 1910
1910
Peiser, Edmond Adair, San Francisco No. 360...................................... August 9,1910
Peterman, Joseph Vaughn, Santa Ana No. 241... ................................... July 15,29, 1910
Peters, Arthur Augustus, Paso Robles No. 286...................................... March 1910
Peterson, George William, Beverly Hills No. 528.................................May 31,
Phebus, Raymond William, William Rhodes Hervey No. 767............July 22, 1910
Phllllps, Rodney F,orseth, Durant No. 268...............................................May 19, 1911
Phillips, Walter Dyer, University No. 394............................................. December 5.22,1910
1910
Piepgrass, Jens Peter, Delano No. 309.................................................... November
1910
14,
r
··Novembe
··········-······
·--··-·-··-·····
.........
229
No.
Solano
Pixley, Howard Romeyne,
1911
Pockman, Leonard T., Lincoln No. 470............................................- ....August 24,
Pohlman, Leo Louis, PorterviJ.le No. 303.................................................0ctober 27, 1910
ebruary 14, 1910
Pomeroy, George Grove, Tehama No. 3.................·-·········-··-·-·········--···F
18, 1908
Poole, Frank Wilford, Corinthian No. 9................................................. November 1910
Pope, Oscar Clinton, Petalwna No. 180.............................................- ... March 31,
1908
Power, Elmer W., Oxnard No. 341..................--·····················-·-·-··--·-··March 21,
20, 1910
Pozzo, Louis Joseph, West Gate No. 335 ................................................January
1910
Pratt, Benjamin Harrison, Welcome No. 255.................. ..................... _April 30, 15,
1910
Pratt, Venerotis T., Sierra Madre No. 408 ..............................................0otober
1911
Pritchard, Frank William, San Francisco No. 360......................._....... April 18,1906
Pritchett, Otis Alfred, Hollywoo d No. 355.............................................July 23, 18, 1910
Proctor, Don Pascal, R. E. Dolley No. 616.............................................January l, 1910
Proseus, John Milton, Victory No. 474....................................................0ctober
Purcell, Herbert Gurley, Honolulu No. 409..·-·····-·····-··-···-·········-··········May 3, 1911
Quinn, John Robertsoo, Alexander Hamilton No. 535.·-····- ·-·---June 20, 1906

Quinville, William James, Durant No. 268.·-···-·· -·-··········· ·····-······A pril 20, 1911
Ramaeclotl, Hugo Frauds, ExcelslOI" No. 166...............- .....................••March 24, 1911
Rappaport , Max, E1E!::1 No. of18...............- ....- ..............------··---- --·January 14, 1911
Gate No. 290..·-···········--·-···········-············-July 31, 1911
Ream, Claude C81"1,

104

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

DATB OP RAISING

Redpath, Sidney Herbert, Sunnyside No. 577....................................._.August 5, 1911
Reed, Colvin Morse, Bethle'hem No. 453..----·····-·-······························May 26, 1910
Reed, James M .• Glendora No. 40•L-......................................................February 15, 1911
Reese, Thomas Devonald, Cupertino No. 510........................................November 19, 1909
Reichert, Walter Ernest, Clear Lake No. 183.............................. ...........June 23, 1911
Reineger, Earl Bradfield, Fairfax No. 556...............................................August 24, 1911
Remensperger, Herman Walter, Presidio No. 354.............................. ...September 22, 1910
Renstrom, Gustave Lambert, Travelers No. 692.....................................November 18, 1910
Rhudy, Clarence Hayes, Winnedumah No. 287.................................- ..November 12, 1910
Richert, Michael John, Tehama No. 3....·-··············-······························ftril 24, 1911
Riemer, Johann Leopold, Pentalpha No. 202.......................................... arch 8, 1911
Riley, John Edward, Orange Grove No. 293..........................................May 13, 1910
23, 1909
Ripple, Lewis, Ontario No. 30L·-··········--····································-····--December
Rist, Albert A., Santa Lucia No. 302........................................................March 23, 1911
Ritchie, John, Salinas No. 204 .................................................................-February 2, 1911
Ritter, Howard Thurston, San Pedro No. 332........................................ March 18, 1911
Rogers, Lawrence Laverne, Sunset No. 352............................................,A_pril 14, 1911
Rollow, James Grady, San Marino No. 685............................................ May 2, 1910
Roseberry, Thomas A., Santa Ana No. 241... ......................................... December 4, 1909
Rosenberger, Elsen Casper, Upland No. 419 ..........................................March 27, 1911
Russell, Alexander A. M., Henry Morse Stephens No. 541.................. December 7, 1907
Sackett, Tr., John Elwood, Buckeye No. 195........................................... May 27, 1911
Sailors, Homer M .• Opportunity No. 470................................................ 1910
Salbac:h, Lloyd Fillmore, Palo Alto No. 346 ...........................................January 31, 1911
Sampson, John Homer, South Pasadena No. 367............................... .....February 28, 1911
Sandy, George Howard, Presidio No. 354........................................... _.November 23, 1905
Sartwell, John Royal, Highland No. 478................................................. February 24, 1911
Save, Paul, America No. 475 ...............................................................- ...June 10, 1910
Saxton, Jr., James George, Mill Valley No. 356..................................... August 29, 1910
Schanzer, Philip J., Pacific No. 136.......... _............................... ...............December 20, 1910
Scharrenherg, Paul, Amity No. 370.............................. ...................- ...... Man:h 22, 1912
Schmidt, Augustus Otto, Foothill No. 564 ........................................... _.April 7, 1910
Schmidt, Bernhard Hemy, Marin No. 191...........................................- ..Septetnber 7, 1910
Schneider, Henry Joseph, Alcatraz No. 244........................................._.November 18, 1909
Schomer, George Henry, Crockett No. 139.............................................0ctober 19, 1910
Schroeder, Herbert Edwin, Brooklyn No. 225................................·-··--July 25, 1911
Schroeder, Richard A., Los Angeles No. 42..·-·································-···.March 18, 1907
Schuh), Perno, Mount Moriah No. 44·-·-··-····-·-······ ········-········-··-···November 23, 1910
Scott, Archibald, Monrovia No. 308...·-·····················-····· ···············-··-·Apri l 27, 1911
Scrivener, William Douglas, Silver Gate No. 296....................·-··-······september 30, 1910
Sears, John Ernest, lllinoistown No. 5L·-····-··································-····March 31, 1911
Shelton, William Austin, Needles No. 326...·--·-········-·················-·····March 6, 1911
Shoemaker, Walter Plenney, San Gabriel No. 546..............- ...............July 24, 1911
Shuey, Robert Al·ton, Charter Rock No. 410--···································-·April 29, 1911
Shupp, George A., Elsinore Nb. 289.·--··········- -········-···········-··-·April 11, 1906
Sibley, John Whitney, Ocean Park No. 369.·--···-············ ················-0ctobe r 25, 1910
Sickels, Charles M., Oxnard No. 341...--····-········· ··················-··········August 20, 1910
Siele, Carl, Euclid No. 519.·--·-··-········· ··-···-···-·····-················-·······Maiy 22, 1911
Si9lll0Ild, Luverne, Southland No. 618.·----··········- ··-···············-Fe bruary 14, 1908
Silberberg, Louis Gerald, Crescenta Valley No. 652..............................]anuary 13, 1911
Silence, Frank Arthur, Humboldt No. 79.....- ..........................................]uly 3, 1911
Sills, Joseph Luther, Mi2ipah No. 378_ _ ............................................. November 28, 1910
Silsbee, Norwood, Tehama No. 3..·-················-····································July 30, 1910
Simon, Bert, Pacific No. 136....·-···-···········································-······-·····January 24, 1911
Singletary, George Curtis. San Jose No. 10.........·-·············-············-···.Septemher 19, 1910
Sischo, Carl N .. San Fernando No. 343.·--··············-·····-···········-····-··0c tober 15, 1909
Slaughter, Madison Smith, Evergreen No. 259................·-·-··········-·····July 7, 1910

NAME AND LODGE

105
DATE OP RAISING

Sloan, Ernest A., Phoenix No. 178........................................................._Mardi 29, 1909
Sloan, Walter Augustus, Durant No. 268................................................November 25, 1910
Small. Charles, Amity No. 370...·-····-··-··············································-·August 12, 1903
Smith, Everet Owens, Silver Gete No. 296.............................................June 9, 1911
Smith, James Kenneth, Long Beach No. 327................................. _.........]une 4, 1910
Smith, louis Edwin, Lassen No. 149........................................................ August 15, 1910
Smith, Walter Charles, Palo Alto No. 346..................................... _....... March 9, 1910
Snell, James, Nevada No. 13......•.. - ................................•.........................May 25, 1910
Spilman, Leslie F., Castro Valley No. 713.............................................. August 19, 1911
Spring, Arthur Logan, South Pasadena No. 367-.......................... _...... March 5, 1909
Steitz, Jacob Raymond, Henry Knox No. 662....·-··········-····--··-··········May 26, 1911
Stephan, Take Neseman, Plumas No. 60............................................... _.January 28, 1911
Stephen, Herbert Llewellyn, Moneta No. 405 ......................................... April 13, 1911
Stephens, Caroll Hardin, Silveyville No. 201......................................... July 12, 1910
Steuard, Ra]ph. Santa Paula No. 291............... _...................................... September 28, 1910
Stevenson, Harmend Henry, Angeles Mesa No. 625............................. May 25, 1910
Stevens, Henry Cushing, Eureka No. 16............................................... _0ctober 6, 1910
Stigall, William H .. Maricopa No. 434............................... ..................... November 11, 1910
Stimmel, Bernard Benjamin, Lebanon No. 495................................... __0ctober 11, 1910
Stobbs, William Henry, Arcadia No. 547..·-··································-··-··May 23, 1903
Stockton, Karp L .. Rising Light No. 397................................................. May 21, 1909
Stokes, Charles Lawrence, Berkeley No. 363...·-·····-····-·-··- ---Apiil 28, 1910
Stoltz, Henry Carl, Moneta No. 405.............................................- ......... February 9, 1911
Strayer, Charles Walton. West Gate No. 335 ........................................February 17, 1910
Street, Alvin C_!yde, Pasadena ~o. 272................................................... Juni: 12, 1911
Strom, Gustaf Emanuel, Guardian No. 596............................................. April 12, 1911
Strong, Herbert Davis, Unity No. 368 .................................................... .March 23, 1911
Stuart, Ervin Drayton, Santa Paula No. 291..........................................August 26, 1910
Sturgeon.John, Alta No. 333.................................................................... July 31, 1911
Sutherlan , William Murray, Redondo No. 328 .....................- ............. June 3, 1911
Swanson, Albert, Alcatraz No. 244...- ..................................................... February 17, 1910
Swanson, August, East Belt No. 391...................................................- ..January 8, 1910
Sweger, Franklin Dyson, Mizpah No. 378 ..·-······-······-·························September 15, 1910
Sylvester, Frank Edwin, A_pollo No. 396...........................................- ....0Ctober 31, 1908
Symons. Charles, f'mity No. 370............................................................. August 19, 1910
Tanner, Wallace Lional, Soul!h Gate No. 320........................................ September 11, 1909
Tak, Elmer Carlton, Golden State No. 358.............................................May 2, 1911
Taylor, Harvey Jacob, Moneta No. 405.·-···········································-·Au gust 5, 1911
Taylor, Herbert Vaughn, George Washington No. 525....................... July 3, 1911
Taylor, Leroy Edwin, Palo Alto No. 346............................................... .December 23, 1910
Thau, Albert Henry, Oak Grove No. 215..............................................•July 7, 1910
Theobald, Harry Couch, Golden State No. 358.............................·-···-March 31, 1910
Thomson, James Milo, Mission No. 169....·-···································-·····April 26, 1911
Thornton, John Robert, Naval No. 87_·--····--··················-··-····--Au gust 11, 1910
Thornton, Calvin, Norwalk No. 315.................................................- .....July 19, 1910
Todd, James Waker, Santa Monica No. 307.......................................... July 23, 1909
Trickey, William Anthony, John P. Jarman No. 669 ............................ .December 3, 1910
Tucker, Buford A .. Granada No. 608..................................................... _April 4, 1911
Tumey, Robert Henry, Las Palmas No. 366.......................................... January 13, 1909
Upham., Arthur H., Arcadia No. 547..·-··--··--·-·····---··· ·······-·-·--·..I>ece mber 20, 1909
Van A!ta, L~n Paul, Mill VaUey No. 356..............·-····················-····-.Tune 3, 1911
Van Kirk, Lmford R., Charter Rock No. 410....·-····--·-··········-···- ······-May 20, 1911
Vecki, Marion, Mission No. 169-·-·······················-··--····-··- ······-··--0ctOber 26, 19ta
Verdon, Joseph Percy, San Diego No. 35...·-········-···-·········--·---...August 13, 1910

106

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Vianello, Ralph Dunham, Las Palmas No. 366....·---- - ·······················-0ctober 28, 1910

Vold, Christopher Oliver, Unity No. 368...- ...........................................November 15, 1910
Waddel1, Edwin Hamilton, Ingleside No. 630........................................ March 20, 1909
Wagner, John Frank. Three Pillars No. 613........................... - ..............August 26, 1911
Wagoner, William J., Mosaic No. 218..................... ............................... 0ctober l, 1910
Wainwright . William Donahoo, Yerba Buena No. i03.........- .............December 7, 1910
Walker, Thomas Gordon, Bay V iew No. -401........................................May 18, 1911
y 3, 1910
Wallace, Charles James, Tehama No. 3..............---·····-·························.Ma
Walter, Ohesley Mathew, Yerba Buena No. -403...................................December 30, 1910
ly 20, 1911
Walters, Raymond Isaac, Bakersfield No. 22-4..·-··········-······-·············-Ju
Wanzer, Horace Benjamin, Fort Crook No. 575 .................................... September 6, 1910
Wanzer, James Olen, Yerba Buena No. -403........................................... February 23, 1911
Wardman, William John Aubrey, Whittier No. 323 ............................. August 25, 1910
Warrens, George M .. Surprise Valley No. 235 ...................................... March -4, 1911
22, 1910
Wasserman . Frank, Oxnard No. 3-4 L. .......---····-··························-·······-October
Waterman, Alfred S .. Russian River No. 181.........................................August 2-4, 1911
Weaver, Christian Stoner, Yosemite No. 99._ ........................................June 20, 1911
er 15, 1910
Weiher, Charles A .. Moneta No. -405........·-····-····-··········-·····················Septemb
Welcome, Earl Howard, Downey No. 220.............................................May 27, 1909
ber 29, 1910
Wells, Frank Oliver, Jahn D. Spreckels No. 657 ....... ---················ -····--.Novem
Wente, Carl F., Mosaic No. 218...............................................................December 10, 1910
Wem.se, Harry Walter, California No. L. ......................................... ... September 29, 1910
West, Herman Bradford, Arbuckle No. 182....... _.................................. 1902
West. Russell Cleveland. Arbuckle No. 182........................................... 0ctober 1-4, 1910
West, Wi1ltam Edmond, East Bay No. -489 ............................................ November 22, 1910
Wetmore, Fred William, Bay View No. -401.......................................... November 25, 1910
Wheeler, James Wright, Lindsay No. -416.............................................. November 12, 1910
ne 22, 1911
White, Harry Alfred, All States No. 593..........·--································-Ju
White, Jerome Baker, Occidental No. 22 .......................................... .....-0ctober 2-4, 1910
Whittington , William J., Gw-dena No. 372.-.......................................... February 23, 1911
Whitney, Francis Winfield, Hollenbeck No. 319...................................September 22, 1910
Whitsett, Alien M .. Rising Light No. 397................................................January 3, 1911
Wickland, Allan Martin, Brooklyn No. 225 ..................... ...................... July 25, 1911
Willard, Harry K.. Vesper No. 8-4 ........... ---··································- ········ December 1-4. 1910
Williams, Qinton Herbert, Silver Trowel No. -415..................... ........... September 28, 1910
Wilson, David Lincoln, Fruitvale No. 336..................... .........................November 19, 1910
Wilson, Thomas Clay, Santa Cruz No. 38......................·-··················--·July 1. 1911
Winders, Archie, Chico No. 111 ....·-······································· ·············---M a y 27, 1911
Wintersgill, Arthur T., Unity No. 368....·- ············-··············-···············.April 25, 1911
Witherspoo n, Jose Edgar, Friendship No. 210....................................... December 8,21,1910
1910
Wobber, Herman, Mission No. 169............................................. __________ September
Wolcott, John Allan. Charter Rock No. -410......................................... ..July 12, 1910
Wood, Firederick Bertram, Palo AJto No. 3-46........................................becember 27, 1910
9, 1911
Woolman, Qaude, Silver Gate No. 296.....·-····-························-········ ·--August
Wright. George William, Golden Gate No. 30..................... .................0ctober 29, 1910
1911
1,
June
.......
Wynne, Grover Claude, Fresno No. 2-47.........................................
Yates, Robert H., Chowchilla No. -485..... - ............................................. April -4, 1910
Yerian, William Henry, Montebello No. -451......................................... January 30, 1911
Yost, Edward Dickinson, Santa Ana No. 2-41 ........................................ September 21, 1910
Young, George Everett, Santa Rosa No. 57...........................................0ctober 1-4, 1910
Young, Golson "C", Starr King No. 3-4-4................................................_November 16, 1910
Zimmer, Raymond Austin, Redlands No. 30CL..- --··-····--··- ---..Apri } 25, 1910
Zuver, Orin L., Hazbor No. 502·--······ -··············· --···-·········- ····-March 23, 1911
Zuver, Roy R., Bakersfield No. 224.- - --····-··-·-·······-····- - ....May 25, 1911

107

In conclusion I want to express the deep sense of gratification which
I feel as Grand Secretary. The job is a challengin g one, and, as is
usual when changes are made, new thoughts and new ideas are brought
into the picture. Perhaps this is good. We seek ever to progress.
The membership in general, and the Secretarie s of the Lodges in
particular, have been most gracious in accepting innovations. The
Ritual Committee and the Inspectors have worked most diligently in
helping me "over the hurdles," and putting into effect the ideas which
have been developed.
It is my earnest wish that we go forward together, and that all of
you remembe r-THE DOOR IS ALWAY S OPEN. I welcome suggestions, and will most certainly give careful considerat ion to all ideas.
My sincere apprecition to our loyal staff, and to all those with
whom we are privileged to work.

Referred to Committee on Distribution.

REPORT OF GRAND LECTUR ER
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
When you elected me Grand Lecturer in absentia last Septembe r I
anticipate d the opportuni ty of proving to you shortly that your trust
had not been misplaced. Indeed, as the first meeting of the Ritual Committee was held in Pasadena on December 2nd and 3rd, 1960, I felt
again the satisfactio n of working in the ritual of our Fraternity . At this
meeting, all the work of the three degrees was exemplified by the
Assistant Grand Lecturers, with complete agreemen t on ~e work as
handed down to us by our predecessors.
By the new year, returning strength enabled me to resume all duties
of the office and the opportuni ty of again seeing old friends at our
ceremonies and receptions presented itself.
A meeting of tJhe Ritual Committee was held in Sacramen to on
February 25th and 26th to review the administra tive duties of the
Committee members in relation to the Inspectors of their respective
Divisions. Here, too, furtheranc e of cooperatio n in carrying forward
the Grand Master's program was a prime topic.
Your Grand Lecturer was again prevented by coincidence from

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

directing the activities of the Committee and by C?rder of the Grand
Master the active duties of the Grand Lecturer were assumed March
1'1, 1961 by Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer.
Much of the remainder of this report must, therefore, reflect the work
which Bill so ably performed. Few friends in life are as constant as
those whom we are privileged to meet in Masonry and your Past Grand
Lecturer Elbert W. Davis has proven his mettle so frequently that mere
reiteration of his merits seems futile. My heartfelt thanks go to him for
his devotion to Masonry as well as his proven friendship.
As has been customary in past years, the lodges of Hawaii received
special instruction in the ritual. Worshipful Clare B. Campbell, Assistant Grand Lecturer, made the trip in January on behalf of the Grand
Lecturer, spending nine days working with the lodges, the officers'
coaches and the Inspectors of the three districts. He reports steady improvement in the work and I believe that his attention to their needs is
appreciated by our brethren of th~ Islands.
Divisional Conferences were held as follows:
Divisions I and II at Bijou, Lake Tahoe, June 16-18, 1961, conducted jointly by Worshipful Clare B. Campbell, Assistant Grand
Lecturer, Division I. and Worshipful Harold N. Richards, Assistant
Grand Lecturer, Division II.
Division III at Santa Rosa, May 19-21. 1961, conducted by Worshipful Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division III.
Division IV, at Yosemite, June 2-4. 1961, conducted by Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer, in the absence of Worshipful Raymond G. Taylor, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division V. at Ventura, April 21-23, 1961, conducted by Worshipful Ralph W. Collins, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division V.
Division VI, at La Jolla, March 17-19, 1961, conducted by Worshipful W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division VI.
The Ritual Committee, with the Acting Grand Lecturer, attended all
conferences except as noted.
All questions arising during my absence were referred to Brother
Davis and either handled as routine or discussed with me by mail and
disposed of in harmony by the Acting Grand Lecturer. Complete agreement has characterized the conduct of ritual affairs over the years, and
since we are charged with maintaining the essential purity of the work,
the existing Ritual Committee system has resulted in uniformity not
otherwise possible.
The Grand Lecturer's duties include the Annual School for In-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

109

spectors held this year on Saturday, September 23rd. After enforced
absence from the ritual for these many months, this school became a
welcome homecoming to active Masonry.
This school again proves the efficacy of our present system of instruction. It is further proof that the instructive tongue and the attentive
ear remain the greatest teaching tools for the spoken ritual and that
seeing and doing beat a textbook any day. The Inspectors of the six
Divisions performed their assigned portions of the work in excellent
fashion and are to be congratulated on it.
Prior to the disablement of the Grand Lecturer, muoh work had
been done on an augmented system of Candidate instruction. Valuable
work has been done in educational matters over many years by committees in this field. Particular attention was given, starting two years
ago, along the line of broadened material for the advancing Candidate.
A year ago. the task of Candidate educ·a tion was placed in our hands.
Had not fortune dictated otherwise, this report would have contained
the background of our effort on constructing a workable and sensible
system. The Grand Master was understanding of the situation confronting the Committee in the disablement of the one who had correlated its efforts and granted such further time as might be required to
complete the project. Although work is now going forward, I cannot
report a finished product to you at this time. My hope is that your
patience and our perseverance will in time produce results of benefit
to the lodges.
I cannot clo~e without paying tribute to the fraternal love which has
buoyed me over the past months. Life without friendship would be
dark and dreary. The cards, notes and good wishes of my brethren did
much to add determination to desire and much of my recovery is due to
you. The ties more strongly bind when adversity strikes and our feeling
of brotherly affection could save die world from itself if only we could
spread it over all mankind.
Respectfully submitted,
DONALD G. CAMPBELL

Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPOR T OF TRUST EES OF THE MASON IC HOME S

GENERAL REVIEW
It would seem with over sixty years of experience behind it, the
work of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of Californ ia
would be largely routine. Such. however, is not at all the case. As in our
national and personal affairs, change seems to be the order of the day,
creating ever new problems, and of course inevitably adding new expenses to the disbursement side of our ledgers.
Our buildings in both Decoto, or Union City, and in Covina are
no longer new, nor are they as modern as we would like. They need
continual repairs and replacements to keep them in the state of perfection that you demand. The cities are building up around us. freeways
are threating encroachment, new laws and bureaucr atic decisions tend
to hamper us, labor and material costs continue to climb, all of which
presents continuing problems to your Board.
There is, however, a brighter side to the picture for which your
Board can never express enough gratitude . The Homes seem to be one
of the favorite charities of our brethren and it is always a source of
joy to report that the many bequests that we receive from the brethren
and their widows, yes, and from non-Mas ons as well, make is possible
for us to maintain our exacting standard s without undue calls for per
capita taxes. For this your Board expresse s its deep appreciation, and
urges that continue d publicity be given this importan t part of our
program .
The Board of Trustees also wants to express its thanks to the
Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board for their excellent educational work
among the co~stituent lodges. Each year surpasse s the previous year
in the voluntar y contributions from the jurisdiction, thanks to their
untiring efforts, the cooperation of the lodges and the generosi ty of the
brethren .
Our sincere apprecia tion goes also to the Investme nt Committ ee of
Grand Lodge for its continuous efforts in so successfully investing the
funds of the Masonic Homes, including of course the Endowm ent Fund,
the income from which is so indispensable to our homes program .

110

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of Californ ia herewith present
the Sixty-ni nth Annual Report for the year ending June 30, 1961,
together with Reports from the Superint endent of our Home for the
Aged in Union City ( formerly Decoto) and from the Superint endent
of our Home for Children in Covina.

ORGANIZATION
The Board of Trustees met in San Francisc o on Septemb er 30, 1960,
for the purpose of organiza tion. The election of Guy B. Mize, Deputy
Grand Master, 'Ira W. Coburn, Senior Grand Warden , and Elmer W.
Heald, Junior Grand Warden , was formally reported to the Board, and
on motion duly made, seconded and carried, they were elected members
of the Board.
The Secretar y of the Board reported the appointm ent by the Grand
Master of George D. Gavin vice Arthur ·M. Warren, newly elected
Grand Treasure r, and on motion duly made, seconded and carried, he
was elected a member of the Board.
The appointm ent by the Grand Master of Edward J. Blickfeldt
vice Ralph H. Head, retired, was also announc ed and on motion duly
made, seconded and carried he was elected a member of the Board.
A ballot cast for the office of Presiden t of the Board resulted in
the election of P.G.M. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried, P.G.M. L. Harold
Anderso n was elected Vice Presiden t of the Board.
By virtue of his election to the office of Grand Treasure r of Grand
Lodge, F. & A. M. of California, P.G.M. Arthur M. Warren is
Treasure r of the Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his election to the office of Grand Secretar y of Grand
Lodge, F. & A. M., Edward H. Siems is Secretar y of Masonic Homes
of Californ ia.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Warden s, the following Trustees compose the Board:
L. Harold Anderso n......................1961 .................... Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.
James Leo Halley.......................... 1962................................ Phil N .. Myers
George D. Gavin..................•.......1963...................... Edward J. Bhckfeld t
Charles Albert Adams, Trustee Emeritus
Charles M. Wollenb erg, Trustee Emeritus
The following brethren were appointe d to the Committee for Masonic Homes Retireme nt Plan.
Arthur M. Warren
L. Harold Anderso n
James Leo Halley

111

MASONIC HOME AT UNION CITY ( DECOTO)
Our handsom e new hospital building at Union City so much admired
by our visitors was flrst occupied on August 23, 1960, with approximately 80 patients. However , the hospital populatio n increased to approxima tely 90 in a few months and then reached a peak of 96. You
will note that the grounds around this new hospital now have been
landscap ed and a complete sprinkling system installed so that this
facility is in every sense of the word complete.
The populatio n of our Decoto home is presently the greatest in its
history. From time to time there is a short waiting period for women ap-

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

plicants and a slightly longer one for couples. It had been our hope
to remodel the old hospital facility to give us additional guest rooms.
The Board was advised, however, that clie buildings comprising t'he
old hospital were inadequate structurally and hazardous from a fire
protection standpoint for residents. Consequently a small amount of
funds were used to rehabilitate it for employee use on a temporary basis.
Besides housing male employees, one ward section is used for a recrea~
tion room for employees when parties are being held by them. Another
ward is used for occupational therapy.
The ground occupied by this old hospital offers an opportunity for
expansion of the residential quarters of the Masonic Home. The Board
has authorized a preliminary study toward this end. In this event the
three buildings which comprise the old hospital facility, of course, will
have to be demolished as they cannot be rebuilt adequately to conforw
with State standards.
Among the many repairs, improvements and replacements required
and made during the year to maintain and modernize our old buildings,
you will observe that new and brighter hall lights have been installed
by Home employees in all of the hallways and have proved to be a big
improvement much appreciated by our guests.
Last year a survey was made looking toward the improving of our
purchasing and receiving procedures and the handling of and prepara~
tion and serving of food. The program outlined by a firm of experts in
this line has gradually been adopted and is expected to effect material
savings as well as offer other advantages to the Home and its residents.
A program of occupational therapy for members under the super~
vision of our new Matron, Mrs. Velma Huckabee, has been introduced
and we are happy to report that it has progressed very satisfactorily.
At a recent meeting of the Board approval was given for the purchase
of materials to expand this program. Monthly excursions by bus for
those who are able to take such trips also have been inaugurated. In all,
your Masonic Home at Union City has had another rewarding and
successful year.
CHILDREN's HoMEATCovIN A

The population figures for the Children's Home in Covina reveal a
new all~time low. This in turn plays havoc with our per capita costs, as
of course it is impossible through the most careful management to reduce
expenses in the same proportion as clie population decreases.
As you know, the Grand Master in his message recommends that
authority be given the Board to broaden the base of our admissions to
our Children's Home. The Board is willing to accept this responsibility
and concurs with the thinking of the Grand Master that service to a

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

113

larger number may be rendered by so doing without materially in~
creasing our over~all costs.
T 1he urbanization of our present location in Covina has given your
Board a great deal of concern. Thinking into the future we have com~
menced a study of possible relocation and attendant modernization of
our Children's Home, with the thought in mind of a reduction of the
per capita costs. 'Dhe age and obsolescence of our buildings account in a
great measure for our high operational expenses, and your Board feels
that a change to a more rural location might be both advantageous and
desirable in the not too distant future.
Our Superintenden t's report on Covina activities will indicate a most
active and successful year.
FINANCE

The new Hospital construction, and existing building modification
program required by State authorities, has now been completed and all
~harges have been paid. This has been accomplished by tran sf ers from
reserves and sale of securities. No portion of per capita tax receipts, etc.,
has been used for this purpose.
Current operating expenses have risen along with experience in
private industry. In addition, the opening of the Hospital has added new
burdens to our payroll and related &arges. Medical and hospital serv~
ices provided by Palo Alto Clinic and Palo Alto Stanford Hospital have
also resulted in higher charges because of greater use of their facilities
occasioned by ~erious illness and hospital requirements not available
at our infirmary.
During the past five years our current operating expenses have ex~
ceeded income in substantial amount and only the profit from sale of
securities has prevented us from requiring an increase in per capita taxes.
The year just closed discloses a 1heavy deficit and the coming year will
show no improvement.
To meet recurring deficits, your Trustees have been transferring
funds from reserves to meet specific operating charges and at its next
general meeting a further study will be reviewed and action taken
thereon.
Every effort is being made to keep our expenses in line with income
and with this premise in mind a continuance of the $1.00 per capita is
requested for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1963.
CONCLUSION

The Board wishes to express heartfelt appreciation to the Super~
intendents of both of our Homes for their years of untiring, unselfish and

115

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

devoted services. Their reports are appended hereto and will outline
in some detail t!heir various activities.
What the Trustees often have said privately among themselves they
now want to say openly. No activity of Masonry seems to bring such
complete satisrection as service on the Homes Board of Trustees, realizing that we are indeed assisting in putting into every day practice in its
most practical sense that Charity or Love which Masonry has been
teaching through the centuries.
Respectfully submitted.
EDGAR V. STEWART, JR., President
L. HAROLD ANDERSON. Vice President

REPORT OF SUPERIN TENDENT - MASONIC HOME
AT UNION CITY {Decoto)

114

EDWARD J. BLICKFELDT
COBURN
IRA
GEORGE D. GAVIN
JAMES LEO HALLEY
HEALD
ELMER
Guy B. M1zE
PHIL N. MYERS

w.

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is indeed a privilege to submit my sixth annual report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Decato, Union City, for the fiscal year
ending on June 30, 1961.
The number of residents :in the Home for the past year has been very
consistant. During the early fall of 1960 we were filled to capacity with
women and couples and approximately 6 women and 4 couples were on
the waiting list for some time. On July 1, 1960 we had 353 residents:
13-4 men, 219 women, and H couples.
During the year 37 men, average age 80.19 and 37 women, average
age 79.37, entered the Home. We laid to rest 30 men, average age 80.40
and 32 women, average age 81.56. There were 2 men and 3 women
withdrawn.
As of June 30, 1961 our poulation was 143 men, 222 women, including 17 couples, with an overall average age of 81.34 years.
Age Groups
50-59
60-69
70-79
80-89
90-99
100

Men
0
5
52
68
18
0

Women
0
11
72
123
15
l

Total
0
16
124
191
33
1

Of the 365 total. there were 91 in the hospital. of which 66 are considered permanent. We also have 40 women on the fourth Boor, north
and east wings, who receive assistance with their daily needs and are
under the hospital supervision.
We moved into our new hospital facility on August 23, 1960, which
was opened for inspection by the members of Grand Lodge on their
visitation of September 28. This new facility has proven very beneficial.
The members seem to enjoy this over the old building-w e are able to
keep three Boors full at all times.
The ihospital is under the competent direction of Mrs. Evangeline
Adams, R.N., and her staff.
Brother Roy Cain, Assistant to the Superintend ent, is fulfilling his
duties quite satisfactorily, also Brother Fred Boyle, the Office Manager,
and Paul Reichert in purchasing and stock control.
During the past year, there were changes in three of our departments .
Mrs. Sara Paris left our employ and was succeeded by Mrs. Velma

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THP.

a most effective
Huck abee, who is well qualified as Matro n and doing
job.
by Tony
Our Chef, Willi am Emmal, retire d and was succeeded
tasty
and
tive
attrac
serve
to
ntly
Giannini, who is working very dilige
food.
replaced by
The Home Chaplain, Marti n Tonn er, resign ed and was
.
Home
and
tal
hospi
the
in
those
Rev. Ted Mcllv enna, who visits
Palo
the
gh
throu
given
being
The medical progr am for the Home is
st,
Denti
Our
.
actory
satisf
very
is
which
Alto Clinic, on a contra ct basis,
s,
Collin
e
Wayn
Dr.
trist,
Podia
the
and
Dr. Kenneth Lee, of Niles,
have
es
servic
visit the Home each week to treat the members. These
been very helpful and satisfactory.
our sincere
It is a pleasu re to exten d, on behal f of the members,
erful enwond
the
thank s and appreciation to the many. many group s for
g were
ipatin
partic
e
Thos
tertai nmen t progr ams enjoy ed in the past year.
Job's
ters,
Chap
lay
DeMo
ters,
the various Lodges, Easte rn Star Chap
inmany
as
well
as
,
others
and
ls
schoo
Daug hters, Rainbow Girls, local
for
anies
comp
ng
booki
the
to
nition
recog
give
we
dividuals. In addition,
and Unite d
Columbia, M.G. M., R.K.O ., Twen tieth Centu ry - Fox,
ed.
enjoy
have
Artist s for the fine assort ment of movies which we
the different
Many of the Lodges visited the Home and confe rred
ren.
Breth
our
degre es in our Temple, which were also enjoy ed by
groups for the
Our thanks, also, to the various Easte rn Star serving
and premade
many gowns, dressings and other items which they have
sente d to the Home.
for their genOur thank s go to the other group s and individuals
s, cash and
T.V.'
erosit y and thoug htfuln ess in contributing clothing,
many other items.
nings. One
This, too, has been a year with many interesting happe
tion of
visita
se
surpri
the
is
mind
one's
every
that especially stand s out in
the
was
22. This
Our Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Maste r on December
Claus
Santa
nt,
eve of our Chris tmas party and after the entertainme
Santa offered a
entere d and gave candy to all in attend ance. Then
Gran d Maste r,
the
was
it
Yes,
ty.
prize to the member guessing his identi
Home!
the
of
ers
memb
the
as
much
who enjoy ed the occasion as
the Home on
The Board of Trust ees held their annua l meeting at
ng there was
eveni
Janua ry 21 and made their general inspection. That
Officers, as
Lodge
d
Gran
a reception for the Gran d Maste r, with many
well as the Trust ees. in attend ance.
have visited
Durin g the past year, various members of the Board
and look aroun d.
the Home at different times to talk with the members
l reception
The East Bay Past Matro ns' Association held their annua
20, 1960.
st
Augu
on
Day,"
for the Gran d Matro n and "Jam and Jelly

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

117

broug ht with
There were approximately 700 in attendan<:e and they
including
items,
other
many
plus
,
jellies
and
them 9,554 jars of jams
clothing and $35.50 cash.
members
On Wedn esday , September 28, 1960, appro ximat ely 1,400
lunch
box
a
d
serve
were
s
friend
of Grand Lodge and their wives and
.
Home
the
to
on their visitation
these repre This year we have had 5,206 visitors sign our register,
8 foreign
and
s,
sented 459 lodges in California, 29 foreign jurisdiction
countries.
the Home
On Sunda y, May H, Moth er's Day, 35 members from
Park, the
Gate
n
Golde
travelled by bus to San Francisco, rode throu gh
rt of
conce
organ
an
to
then
area,
e
beach, aroun d the Golde n Gate Bridg
early
the
in
Home
the
to
ing
return
dral,
Bach music at Grace Cathe
evening for a pot luck supper.
the past year.
Many improvements have been accomplished during
of the main
ion
rnizat
Just a few of these are the replacement and mode
g machine
makin
ice
an
of
t
remen
electrical panel in the kitchen, the acqui
new carand
ment,
equip
tion
projec
e
for cold drinks, new motion pictur
oratin g
redec
in
spent
been
has
time
Much
.
parlor
the
in
s
pet and drape
ays.
hallw
many of the rooms and
interest and
To the employees and staff, my sincere thank s for their
co-operation in the care of our members.
eration and
To our members. thank you very much for your co-op past year.
the
g
durin
staff
the
asistance, which you have given me and
elt thank s for
To the meiiibers of the Board of Trus tees- my heartf
members and
its
and
Home
the
in
st
intere
e
their assistance and sincer
to the Trust ees
for their confidence in me. My thank s are also exten ded
serve.
and the Frate rnity for the oppor tunity to

Respectfully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID , Superintendent

118

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF SUPERI NTEND ENT -

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

COVINA HOME

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is with great pleasure that I present my thirteenth report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina, for the year
ending June 30, 1961.
HOME MEMBERS HIP

As of June 30, 1961, the population of our Masonic Home Family
numbers thirty-eigh t children- twenty-fi ve boys and thirteen girls. During the fiscal year of 1960-61, four children 1have been admitted to the
Home, all boys (ages 16, 15, 11, and 11 ) . Twelve children left the
Home, five graduating from high school, and seven returning to their
families or guardians. Two of the graduates plan to continue their education through scholarships while remaining in residence at the Home.
Two plan to enter the service, and to resume their education at a later
date. One will reside locally with his mot'her, and attend Junior College.
Family Status
Children
Families
Orphans
10
7
H/0 Fathers living
10
4
H/0 Mothers living
5
3
Both parents living
13
9
Family relationships in the Home consist of the following:
One family of four children: three famiies of three children: six
families of two children: and thirteen families of one child each. Two
children, representing two families, are in the Home under the membership of the grandpare nt. Thirty-six children from twenty-on e families
are at the Covina Home under their father's membership. Twenty-t wo
of the children will be in high school. Five will be in junior high, and
eleven in grade school. The twenty-th ree families are here on applications from twenty-th ree Lodges.
HOME, SCHOOL, AND COMMUNI TY ACTMTIES

The past year has been outstandin g in several respects. One girl
and two boys were awarded the distinction of representing the high
school and the Home at Girls' and Boys' State in Sacramento. Linda
Williams was sponsored by American Legion Auxiliary, Victory No. 54.
Linda also won the Adolph Koshland "Good Citizenship" award for
1960. Bill Barraclough and Jim Hoard were sponsored by the Sunshine
and the F. J. Irwin Posts of the American Legion, respectively. Fred
Clinkscale won the coveted distinction of being "Boy of the Year."
Our 4-H Club, the Masonic Home Pioneers, enjoyed an extremely

119

successful year. At the 1960 Los Angeles County Fair, we received a
"first" and followed this with Senior Champion and Grand Ohampion
for our Herd Boar, Reform Ranger 3. In addition to this, Reform
Ranger 1st became Senior Reserve Champ and Reserve Grand Champion Boar. At the affair, the Home received three Firsts, one Second,
four Thirds, and two Fifth prizes, in addition to the above.
At the 4-H Fair at Pomona, the Home club "Masonic Pioneers"
took eleven "firsts," seven "seconds, " two "thirds," and one fourth
place. Climaxing this event, Georgia Cox received the First Place
Award for Showmanship. Young Steve Archinal received a trophy for
poultry. The Home placed second in the trophy for horses, and second for swine. At the Third Annual Malibu Horse Show, Georgia Cox
received a First Place in the Halter Class for her filly, "Flash Can,"
and again she was awarded a handsome trophy as the Champion in
Horse Showmanship.
Our 4-H Club, the Masonic Pioneers, numbers seven boys and one
girl. Our Home children have obtained notable achievements in competition with thousands of young people in this interesting and important phase of our American Way of Life. Mr. Smithson, our Farm
Manager, is to be complimented for 'his efforts in behalf of our Masonic
Pioneers 4-H Club.
At Charter Oak High School the Home children have attained many
honors. Officers for the Freshman Class were Fred Clinkscale, President: David Kilpatrick, Vice-Pres ident: Sharon Williams, Secretary:
and Terry Hepry, Legislator. Susan Farmer was Legislator for the
Junior Class: and Tom Henry was Program Co-ordina tor and Student
Body President, 1959 to 1960. Tom Orth, Jerry Orth, and Bob Faulk
played for the high school Band and Orchesqa . Linda Williams is a
member of Dionecian's, Girls' Honorary Service Organizat ion.
Athletic-wise, our boys have been outstandin g. Richard Farmer and
Ken Wylie played on the outstandin g Championship Varsity Football
Team which went up to the very last contest in the CIF Playoffs. Richard Farmer was chosen as Left End on the Honorary All-Star High
School Eleven, and Player of the Week. Ken Wylie was also outstanding in wrestling competition - he won twenty-th ree straight contests.
Twelve of our boys won many honors in track competition, and several
competed on the baseball and gymnastic teams.
All the children are encourage d to participat e along broad horizons.
Several of the Junior Girls are Brownie or regular Girl Scouts. Many
children regularly receive piano lessons from an accomplished concert
pianist. Three of the boys belong to the De Molay group. When the
children reach the acceptable age, they are encourage d to take Behind
the Wheel and Drivers' Training Courses, and are carefully instructed

121

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and supervised, in addition, by their Houseparents in actual driving of
a Home vehicle. Every effort is made so that when these young people
leave, they will be adequately prepared to meet the conditions of life
today.
.
.
Whenever it seems indicated or essential. supplementary instruction
is available from tutors in the appropriate fields of study. Although we
were saddened last fall by the death of Mrs. Norma Robinson, our beloved Home teacher, we were fortunate to secure the services of Mr.
John Brink, who is continuing our remedial Home study program.
Mr. Bliss of the Bliss Delivery Service ·h as continued his wonderful
service of bringing feature films, cartoons, and occasional short features
from Columbia Pictures Corporation; Loew's, Incorporated (MGM):
Twentieth Century-Fox Film Exchange: Universal Films Exchange:
Warner Brothers: and-<>ecasionally -Allied Artists' Pictures Corporation. Film nights are always popular, and the children are permitted and
encouraged to ask their friends to come as guests. This holds true, also,
for the fine swimming pool, where--after an examination by the Home
nurse--f riends may be invited to use the pool facilities. The girls have
been permitted to invite friends in for the very popular '.'Slumber
Parties." Transportation is always provided to and from special school
events such as dances, games, Award Banquets, etc.
During the summer months, all of the older children enjo~ed cam~­
ing trips to Yosemite, and sightseeing jaunts to points of interest in
California. For a portion of the Thanksgiving holiday, the older boys
camped at Cuyamaca State Park near Julian, and at Lake Mohave during Easter week.

they may require. Dr. McCormick, an optometrist, and Dr. Namikas,
M.D .. an oculist, safeguard the vision of the children. Dr. Pancoska
ministers to their dental needs. Other help by the necessary specialists
is arranged for when it is needed. The children are in excellent physical
condition, and stand out as an attractive group in any assemblage.

120

VISITATIONS

Visitations by the various Masonic Lodges, which come out to picnic
on the beautiful grounds and tour the buildings, continue to be very
popular. For most months, the quota is filled almost a year in advance,
and there is always a gay, exciting aura about these third Sundays of
every month. The children are as happy and inspired to meet and guide
the Lodge members and guests as the visitors seem to be to make the
acquaintance of their "Brothers' Children." The result is invaria~ly a
pleasant day for all. These visits seem to perpetuate and keep ahve a
warm interest in the children of the Covina Home Family.

HEALTH

Every possible effort is made to keep the young residents in topnotch condition. The Magan Clinic, founded by Dr. W. P. Magan, Sr.,
supervises the health of the children. Here they are sent for regular
physicals and any supplementary care, either medical or surgical, which

THE ALUMNI

The Alumni contact is maintained on a vital and constant basis, both
through the medium of personal visits at the various Alumni Reunions
and visits to the Home at Covina, but particularly through the medium
of the Newsletter. The 1961 edition is one of the largest ever published,
and contains about three times as many contributions from the Alumni
as the one published in 1%0. Copies of the 1961 Newsletter were mailed
to all active Alumni who had contributed, all those who responded to a
subsequent questionnaire, Masonic Lodges sponsoring children in the
Home, Grand Lodge officers, and members of the Board of Trustees and
the Endowment Board.
There were three official gatherings of Alumni groups during the last
year: a Sacramento Picnic on the first Saturday in June 1961: the Covina
Reunion on the second Sunday in September: and the Reunion Dinner
in San Francisco on the Saturday preceding Grand Lodge. All were
well-attended ... and enojyed. Another heartening feature is the way in
which our Alumni come "Home" with any problem, thus revealing that
this is their Home in the truest sense of the word. Various Alumni spend
a portion of their leave from the Military Service or Weekend Liberties
with their Brothers and Sisters of our Home Family. At the present
time, two members of the Alumni are resident here while taking classes
at a local Junior College, and in all probability, three others will be living
here for the same purpose in the near future.
This "electric" contact with the Alumni, Lodge members, the Staff,
and the friends of the Covina Home is an invaluable inspiration which
gives a special meaning and substance to life. It is a privilege to be
placed in this unique position of being able to "give and receive," and
I wish at this time to express my sincere appreciation for having been
given this opportunity with its perennially rewarding relationships.

Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY,Superintend ent

122

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT OF
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

special listing of those Lodges which average $3 or more per member,
listed according to average, and to be as high on that list as possible.
To these Lodges we give our special thanks and congratulations. Last
year there were 118 Lodges on this list. This year there are 184, as
follows:

The Masonic Homes Endowment Board hereby submits its 29th
Annual Report covering the fiscal year of July 1, 1960 through June 30,
1961. A thoughtful study of this report will reveal an ever-increasing
interest and support of this great Masonic project.
CASH CONTRIBUTIONS

Individual contributions in the sum of $6451453.76 were received
through the Lodges this year, for a net increase of $94,303.42 over last
year. These figures do not include bequests, memorials, special gifts,
etc .• which are shown elsewhere in this report.
Each year there is an increase in the number of larger amounts.
Many contribute $100 to $1000 and this year one brother gave $2500
and another brother gave $5,000. The $5.000 contribution was given in
tribute to M. W. Alfred F . Breslauer, Grand Master, and the donor
insisted that his name not be given.
These larger gifts demonstrate the wisdom of this Board in no longer
suggesting any specified amount for a contribution, and certainly not
$2 as was first suggested in 1934. Times and money values have changed
since then, and so have the costs of maintaining the Homes. We now
simply suggest that each brother determine for himself, the amount he
shall contribute each year, according to his financial situation, his own
conscience, his fraternal concern for his less fortunate brethren and
their families, the dignity of "caring for our own," and his desire to
"insure the continuance of loving care."
INCOME PROM THE ENDOWMENT FUND

The income from the Endowment Fund this year amounted to
$445,000.00 and this amount was applied to the operating costs of
both Homes. This demonstrates that the Endowment Fund benefits the
present, as well as the future.
HONOR ROLL LoDGES

Honor Roll Status was attained this year by 573 Lodges averaging
$2 or more per member, as compared to 502 last year, for a net gain of 71
Honor Roll Lodges. Fifty Lodges made the Honor Roll this year for the
first time since the Honor Roll system was inaugurated in 1934. Eightyone per cent of the Lodges are on the Honor Roll this year. This Board
believes that the Honor Roll should be considered a minimum amount
but not the maximum goal. It should be considered as a stepping-stone
or mile-post along the way to an ultimate achievement.
$3 OR MORE AVERAGE
A higher distinction than the Honor Roll is for a Lodge to be in the

Average
amount
No.
Lodge
per member
780 Riviera ···························-··.$13.85
763 Arabic ................................ 13.67
344 Starr King ···-······-············· 12.3'4
264 Hesperlan .......................... 10.23
698 Wm. D. Stephens.............. 8.74
143 Franklin .............................• 7.05
200 Truckee .............................. 6.70
445 Wilshire .............................. 6.36
595 A. G. Bell....................- ..... 6.22
729 Centennial .......................... 5.72
768 Zenith ·························-······· 5.71
566 James A. Garfteld................ 5.53
767 Wm. Rhodes Hervey........ 5.43
733 Golden Empire .................. 5.42
788 Sierra .................................. 5.36
378 Mizpah ................................ 5.29
464 Alta Vista ·········-··············· 5.25
786 Rio Linda............................ 5.19
623 Menorah ............................ 5.18
278 Southern California .......... 5.09
659 La Habra ···········-··············· 5.06
745 Peninsula ···-······················· 5.02
795 American River .................. 4.96
589 Kauai ·····-··························· 4.85
685 San Marino•........................ 4.84
324 Corona .......·-··········-·········· 4.80
26 El Dorado .......................... 4.78
740 Opportunity ...................... 4.74
755 Golden Bowl ...................... 4.70
144 Oriental .............................. 4.69
40 Sacramento ···-··················· 4.66
320 South Gate ........................ 4.66
U.D. The Gabilan ····--·············· 4.64
467 Culver City ........................ 4.63
727 Verdugo Hills .................... 4.62
712 Los Altos ............................ 4.60
707 Lake Tahoe ···············-······· 4.56
743 Oakwood............................ 4.55
760 Lakeside ···-························· 4.50
662 Henry Knox ...................... 4.45
697 Saint Elmo -·········-····-······· 4.43
792 Millbrae .............................. 4.37
774 Waikiki ·····-······················· 4.36
678 La Mirada .......................... 4.34
637 Palisades -························ 4.33
737 Hillsborough ·········-··-········ 4.33
739 La Canada .......................... 4.30
220 Downey -···························· 4.29
193 Ferndale····························- 4.28

123

Average
amount
Lodge
No.
per member
448 Mount Diablo ...................• 4.27
781 Rolling Hills ...................... 4.21
472 Maui.................................... 4.19
521 Sunrise -···--·········-·-···-······· 4.11
215 Oak Grove ........................ 4.10
452 San Pasqual ...................... 4.09
273 Anchor ................................ 4.07
499 Carmelita ............................ 4.06
393 Balder .................................. 4.04
766 James H. Kew.................. _ 4.02
734 l<it Carson .......................... 4.01
309 Delano ................................ 4.00
646 Metropolitan ...................... 3.98
319 Hollenbeck .......................• 3.92
732 San Juan ............................ 3.92
642 La Cumbre .......................... 3.90
533 Azure .................................. 3.88
730 Polaris ................................ 3.88
612 Temple City ...................... 3.87
307 Santa Monica .................... 3.83
326 Needles .............................. 3.83
397 Rising Light ...................... 3.83
242 Magnolia ............................ 3.82
327 Long Beach ........................ 3.81
771 Mission Bay ...................... 3.81
600 Lynwood ............................ 3.79
101 Clay .................................... 3.77
272 Pasadena ............................ 3.77
352 Sunset ................................ 3.77
502 Harbor ................................ 3.75
95 Henry Oay ........................ 3.72
758 West Covina ...................... 3.72
790 Granada Hills ·····-·--·-··· 3.70
290 East Gate ............................ 3.69
194 Mountain View .................. 3.69
794 Mt. Wilson ........................ 3.68
237 Guadalupe .......................... 3.66
719 Estero ········-······················- 3.65
437 Lancaster ............................ 3.63
506 Mount Olive ...................... 3.63
173 Elk Grove .......................... 3.61
458 Henry S. Orme.................... 3.61
355 Hollywood .......................... 3.60
372 West Los Angeles.............. 3.60
731 Two Rivers ........................ 3.60
5 Benicia ................................ 3.56
797 Tila Pass ················-···-····· 3.53
537 Utopia ··-·-············-·········- 3.52
753 Lawndale --·······-·-·········- 3.51

124

No.
629
202
330
678
546
422
799
614
219
622
542
548
402
421
80
493
513
417
457
628
455
776
277
435
368
558
716
20
434
645
764
168
483
247
300
492
709
450
462
641
742
21
475

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Fairview ·········-···············- 3.49
Pentalpha ............................ 3.47
Kilauea ................................ 3.47
Altadena ............................ 3.44
San Gabriel........................ 3.44
Eagle Rocle ........................ 3.43
Bay Claire Vista................ 3.43
Larchmont .......................... 3.42
Speranza Italiana .............. 3.41
Atwater ·······················-····· 3.41
North Hollywood .............. 3.41
1'.riangle .............................. 3.39
Brawley ·····················--·-·-· 3.38
Inglewood .......................... 3.38
Ione .................................... 3.37
Atascadero .......................... 3.37
Cahuenga ............................ 3.37
Clovis .................................. 3.36
Ramona ·······················-··-· 3.36
Truth .................................. 3.36
Golden West ...................... 3.33
East Whittier --------···-······· 3.33
Selma .................................. 3.32
Fairmount .......................... 3.32
Unity .................................. 3.30
Point Firmin ...................... 3.30
Belmont Shore .................... 3.30
W ashingiton ........................ 3.29
Maricopa ............................ 3.29
A. F. E. Irwin...................... 3.29
Heritage ·····--·------··-·········.:. 3.28
Redwood City ·······-···-······· 3.27
Bell ··--··········--------·-·············· 3.27
Fresno ···-·······---·---·-····---·-- 3.26
Redlands ·······-----·········-····· 3.26
Garvanza ............................ 3.26
Lorenzo .............................. 3.26
Van Nuys ·······-··-·-·····-----·· 3.25
Paul Revere ·····----·············· 3.24
James A. Foshay................ 3.24
Morningside Park .............. 3.23
Hawaiian ............................ 3.22
America ·········-----·-----·-····-·-- 3.22

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Average
amount
No.
Lodge
per member
793 Maya ·············---··--·········-··· 3.21
504 Seaside ···----················-----·· 3.20
699 Bixby KnoHs ......................
736 Lemon Grove ......................

3.20
3.20

Sunrise ................................
Leland Stanford ................
Georgetown........................
Five Points ........................
Santa Maria........................
Westminster ......................
Mt. Davidson ....................
Loyalty ··················---------·-·
S. W. Hackett....................
El Sereno ·····-·····-----·-····---··
Hemet ···--·········----··············
R. E. Dolley..........·-···········
Catalina Island ..................
Volcano ··-····-----···············
Rosemead............................
Temblor ..............................
Arcata ................................
Reading ····························San Simeon ........................
South Pasadena ................
Arcadia ..............................
Los Cerritos........................
Oak Plains ..........................
Glendale ·---·········--·······-····-564 Foothill ............................._.
728 Lakewood ..........................
U.D. Camellia ···························-·
563 South Park ..........................
643 Alta Loma ..........................
677 Liberal Arts ........................
470 Lincoln ................................
10 San Jose·····-··················--267 Galt ......................................
476 Coachella·····---------··---·-·······
750 Mother Colony..................
596 Guardian ·····--······--······----644 Lomita ................................

3.18
3.18
3.17
3.17
3.16
3.16
3.15
3.15
3.15
3.15
3.15
3.15
3.13
3.12
3.12
3.11
3.10
3.10
3.09
3.07
3.07
3.07
3.07
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.05
3.05
3.05
3.04
3.03
3.03
3.01
3.00
3.00

~iA ~~e ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~J~

522
784
25
779
580
787
481
529
574
588
615
616
524
56
702
477
106
254
196
367
547
674
789
544

PERCENTAGE OF PARTICIPATION

Forty..five per cent of the members of the jurisdiction made a contribution this year, as compared to 41.4% last year. This year 109,733
brethren made individual contributions, for a net increase of 9,513 over
last year. The number of contributors and percentage of participation
have been steadily increasing each year, but the above figures show that
more than 130,000 members (55%) did not contribute to the Homes
Endowment this year. To reach that otlher 55% is one of our chief
concerns.

125

WILLS AND BEQUESTS

$144,165.62 in bequests were received into the Endowment Fund
during the past year, representing final and lasting tribute to this great
work of "caring for our own." A bequest to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund is a permanent gift because the principal remains intact
and continues to earn income for the Homes for generations to come.
It is truly leaving "footprints in the sands of time" and becomes a
living memorial. Only the income from the Endowment Fund is used
in maintaining the Homes.
PRINTED ITEMS

During the past year the Lodges have ordered 1,227,000 printed
items for mailing to members as follows:
Pamphlets ................................................614,000
Contribution Envelopes ..........................279,000
Grand Master's Proclamations ................ 218,000
Stop-Think-Consolidate Cards .............. 116,000
(To enclose with dues notices)
T'hese printed items were all prepared and furnished by this Homes
Endowment Board. In addition, this Board caused to be printed and
mailed to Lodge Officers, 25,000 items of promotion such as Information
Manuals, Annual Reports, Sample Letters, Sample Contribution Envelopes, Sample Pamphlets, etc. Therefore the total printed items distributed by this Board was 1,252,500. This, of course, does not include
countless thousands of letters and other printed items prepared by the
Lodges and mailed to members.

.

ENDOWMENT BOARD PERSONNEL

At the 1960 session of Grand Lodge a resolution was passed providing for an increase in the number of Members for this Board from
15 to 21. In addition, one member, Melvin A. Pixley, asked not to be
reappointed. Therefore, seven new members were appointed to the
Board by Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand Master, to
serve in the general area surrounding their city of residence as follows:
Arthur A. Anderson .................... Dinuba
James B. Baker.............................La Mirada
Fred F. Elliott.............................. Bell
Glen Gladson ...............................North Hollywood
Charles F. Minetti... ....................Santa Rosa
Charles R. Ratkovich.................. Berkeley
Kent 0. Seymour......................... Mill Valley
Edward H. Siems, Grand Secretary, was elected by this Board to
serve as its Secretary, and Arthur M. Warren, Grand Treasurer, as
Treasurer of the Board.
Our sincere thanks go to Melvin A. Pixley who worked diligently

126

on this Board for three years and was responsible for many thousands
of dollars being received into the Homes Endowment Fund.
Also, our special thanks go to Lloyd E. Wilson, P.G.M., Assistant
to the Grand Master, who was Secretary of this Board for nearly 20
years, while- he was Grand Secretary, and devoted much time and
effort to this Masonic endeavor.
OUR THANKS TO ALL
Mere words cannot begin to express our heartfelt thanks and
gratitude to all who had a part in establishing this year's record of
achievement, nor is it possible to give individual credit to the hundreds
of brethren who devoted time and effort in addition to their cash contributions. Our Grand Master, M. W. Alfred F. Breslauer, has been
of great assistance by the publicity he has given to the Homes Endowment and the encouragement and help he has given to the members of
the Endowment Board. Our Grand Secretary, Edward H. Siems, and
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, and their entire staff
have given the very finest of assistance and cooperation. The devoted
assistance of Don G. Campbell and his Assistant Grand Lecturers and
Inspectors have been extremely valuable in establishing this high
accomplishment.
Our thanks and appreciation go to the Masters and other Officers,
and the Homes Endowment Committeemen of the Lodges who really
make possible the success of the Homes Endowment program. The
Master, who is anxious to make his year the greatest for the Homes
Endowment, and the Endowment Committeemen upon whom he places
the responsibility, are in a position to do a great job and in most cases
the record of achievement for the Endowment reflects their devoted
work. In many Lodges, "if the Secretary does not do it, it is not done."
Without the wock and cooperation of the Lodge Secretary, it would be
difficult for a Lodge to make an outstanding record. As a group the
Lodge Secretaries should, and do, receive a very large portion of the
credit for outstanding accomplishments as shown in this report.
Last, but certainly not least, our sincere thanks go to the 110,000
brethren who made cash contributions to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund this year. Their gifts have materially helped to "insure the
continuance of loving care" to those in our two Masonic Homes.
We respectfully request the usual appropriation of $14,000.00 for the
current ·fiscal year.
Respectfully submitted,
THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
JOHN M. GORDON, Chairman
KERMIT A. JACOBSON, Vice-Chairman (South)
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice-Chairman (North)
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.G.M., Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P .G.M., Secretary
Referred to Committee on Finance.

127

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BOARD MEMBERS

Terms Expiring

1963

1962

1961
ARTHUR A. ANDERSON
JOHN M. GORDON
CHARLES H. GRACE
HORACE R. LA FORTUNE
WILLIAM H. SCHOOLER
KENT 0. SEYMOUR
0RNO E. TYLER

}AMES B. BAKER
FRED H. BLANCHARD
RALPH BROKAW
DETUNCQ
R.
HAROLD
PAULA.BROM
GLEN GLADSON
BYRON COLEMAN
LESTER A. PRICE
CHARLES R. RATKOVICH FRED F. ELLIOTT
KERMIT A. JACOBSON
HowARD L. RosE
CHARLES F. MINETTI
DYKE
VAN
G.
HENRY

s.

CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH l..oDGES
1957 ........................................$ 372,494.09
1958 ········································ 421,633.62
1959 ········································ 502,120.43
1960 ········································ 551,150.34
1961 ········································ 645,453.76
RECEIPTS FROM ALL SOURCES
1957 ........................................$ 448,565.28
1958 ........................................ 589,730.78
1959 ········································ 945,762.32
1960 ........................................ 952,127.49
1961 ........................................ 1,293,941.59
INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION
1957 ........................................·-······· 79,995
1958 .................................................. 81,686
1959 ·················································· 93,425
1960 ..................................................100,220
1961 .......................- ......................... 109,733
HoNOR RoLL l..oDGES
1957 ..........................................................285
1958 ..........................................................365
1959 .......................................................... 453
1960 ..........................................................502
1961 ..........................................................573

$3 OR MORE AVERAGE
1957 ·························································· 36
1958 ························································"· 36
1959 ·························································· 79
1960 .......................................................... 118
1961 .......................................................... 184

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

128

KEMORI.&.LS (Continu ed)

EllOOllMEllr PllllD

ams AND DONATIONS
Bequeate and gU'ta hnve been received up to June 301 1961, as follows1
I 26,S64.30
ESTATES: Charles H. Brooks (Long Beach Lodge No. 327)
i,S69.S2
l!abel Anna Davidson
Value Undetermined
Winnie c. Delmer (Gardena Lodge No. 372)
36,262.01
Jesse c. Edwards (Berkeley Lodge No. 363)
2,496. 76
Dwight H. Fobes (Inglewood Lodge Noe 421)
2so.oo
Edgar w. Hargreaves (Presidio Lodge No. 3S4)
100.00
Alva o. l!lllllnon (South Gate Lodge Noe 320)
100.00
Palmer J.. Johnson (Craftsmen Lodge No. SS9)
100.00
Hartnll Henderson Linney (Argonne Lodge Noe 514)
500.00
Will.1am T. llcArthur (Southern Callf'ornia Lodge No. 276)
S6,1S7.10
SaTBh Frances Perey (Ve:mont Square Lodge No. 515)
3,000.00
Louis R, Plate (Tehama Lodge No. 3)
S,9IP.60
Samuel Thomas Poteet (Georgetown Lodge No. 2S)
930.33
Bertha Sherwood (Southern California Lodge No. 276)
1,500.oo
Albert J. Strei (Presidio Lodge No. 3S4)
104.32
John Waterford (Laguna Beach Lodge Noe 672)
6,123.70
Erwin Roliud & Grace Weinspacb (South Gate Lodge Noe 320)
ip7. 74
El.mer A. Zierlce (John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 6S7)

HISC.1

(The Lodge dasignatio n indicates a connection b7
interest but not necess~ b7 m8111bel'8hip)
Mobil. 011 Co. Tuitcan Club
J.erojet-O eneral Corp.
P. A. Moe
B11plo7eee
V, Musgrave
Ralph
patrick J. Bo7er
Robert J. Oven, Jr.
Herbert B. Buxton
Frank Pontello
Bexvard c. Christma s
'William D. Rudolph
Jaaee A. Colle7
629th & 639th Masonio Dut.
Counce
A~
Jtenneth
Officers Aaan.
Marl.en• L. Diokerso n
Space Technolo g7 Laborato r7
Charle• L. Dunn
s
Bmpl.07ee
Vernon L. Edwards
Mrs, Elsie I. Streeter
Cliti'ord C. Blsten
Club
Masonic
Fresno Masonic Hiatorioa l. Assn.Sun Valley
ge,
General Telephon e Co. Bmployeee Thompson Ramo Wooldrid
Inc,, Baployee s
Ted B. Hermann
Ro7 W. Thompson
Ionic .foundati on
George L. Var.n ua
Charles L. Jones
Uni tad Fund of San Diego Coe
Club
Compass
&
Square
:r..A. J'ord
Honoring Mr. & Mrs. s •. D. Zook
Mre. Bett7 MarlUla
MEMORIALS

Oren Darl. Abbott
Edward Achatett er
Robert F •·. Adaas
Villiaa LTal. Adaas
Benjaain P. Aguirre
Hamar v. Alexande r
Willian B. Alexande r
Robert Louie .t.llars
Oscar L • .&.llen
Sanuel D. Alrich
Edward Louis Altvater
Edvard B• .l.Jlel.ung

Bert B. Anderson
Harr7 Leslie Anderson
Hubert George Anderson
Hr•~ J.C. Anderson
Robert Levi Anderson
Juliue c • .t.ndreson
Godfre7 E. Andrews
Mrs. Winfred H. Ankers
Stephen Felix Arana
Thomas Arnold
E. Ra~cnd J.rnor
William 'Webb Ashle7

129

Carl Adair Ashton
'Winfield Attenboro ugh
Edison Pierce Bacon
Mrs. Luc7 B. Bachtold
Ralph David Baile7
Donald H. Baker
Earl. Ell.swort h Baldwin
Howard Bard
Christia n R. Bartel•
()'I.to Frank Barth.
R87aond Leonard Barton
Joseph Y. Baruh

Max Basker
Clement Joaeph ' Baaei
Truaan Bastion
Rev. W.H.Oe Battereh il.l
George J. Jfat•
Barr7 John Bauer
Philip Baum
Fredrick Joseph Beard
George McMillan Beck
Hra. Becker
C7ril Horrell Beebe
John Veale7 Beery
Hilton B. Begen
George Behrendt
Albert Behrstoc k
George Samuel Bell
Temple E. Bell
Harold Curtis Belt
Archel Forrest Bender
Herbert David Bendheim
lrenneth L. Bennett
Harold H. Berg
Bather Berglof
Ignats Berkowit z
David Beet
Karie J'ergueon Beutone
Paul Bi11ri&:g : ,,;.
Barr7 IC, 'Billhei ur
Dan B, Bill11an
Bllia s. Bjorlcing
F. c. Black ·
Joseph Blackbur n
Jler].e Blackman
B~ Blackwel l
.Jaus p. Blackwood
Lawrence loenan B1a1n
Jeese Lero7 Bloch
Joseph Bloom
John D. Bloeha11
H:Trt T. Blum
Oa•ton Albert Bollaert
Ralph Valdo Borutikee n
7red o. Boos, Jr.
Bal Borill
Lavon B. ·Bo7ajian
Frank T. Bradford
Julius Stephen Bradford
Winfre7 'Allen Brasher
WilliUl Benr7 ·Br87ton
Jq :IJio .Bralceeman
John H. Bre&lll
J. 8h1rle7 Bright
Will.i&lll Vile7 BrieCD
Oscar John Brodin
·Villard Bronson

Wallace Ra7 Coates
Arthur William Cobb
Robert llewaoa CQf'1'117
:l:hot'laa Cotfe7
Aldern Hall Co.ffin
Benjamin Cohen
Albert Ro7 Cohn
Benjuin Henry Cole
R. W. Coleman
Frederic k Richard Collins
Saul Colton
Richard Curtis Col7ear
William 'Combe
Rodne7 John Comport
Edwin Walker c·omstock
Ralph L. Comstock
Harold K. Conscher
Vincent Conte
Lawrence R• . Converse
De Lo7d E. Cook
George Harrison Cook
John D. Cook
Albert J, Cooper
Joseph Thomas Cooper
Stanle7 Wallace Coab7
William Fair Coulter
Charlee W. Cox
Daniel Webster Cox
Edgar Craig
Tiaoth7 Cranston
Clarence Crease7
Philip S, Creedon
William F. Crellin
Steve Earl Creaae7
G. R.. Carman
Gail L. Culp
lleil Carmicha el
Arch L. CWlllllinga
Sigurd Carlson
Marshall o. Cummings
Mar7 Mertie Carroll
Stuart A. Cundiff
Robert Gordon Carroll
Albion Curtis
Chanbers
D,
Willia•
E.
Foster
Mrs. Julia Dahlquis t
Jack Rile7 Chambers
Edward L. Dale7
Harold Chatfield
Mrs. Edna Daniela
Dr. Wm.H. Christene en
David Philippae n Chriet7 Ernest R, Daniel.so n
James Davidson
Theodore H. Chubb
Norman G. Davidson
Sgt. Charl.es D. Clapp
Curtis J, Davie
Warren Fullerton Clark
I
Howard W~ Darte
Fred Clarke
Joseph Edwin Davia
Vilaon John Clarke
B. Davie
Cleek
Pridham
Nellie
Hra.
Cheater Dq
Charles c. A. Clemente
Barne7 w. Deaver, Jr.
Ernest Jack Clements
Rachel Ann Decker
John Hilla Clemons
Herbert c. Dedllan
Earl L. Cleveland
Emanuel. Deft7
Jira. Anna Cline
J., c. Deiter
Glenn lt, Clover

John Elmer Brook•
Frank Ridgele7 Brovn
Fred H. Brown
LTnton H. · Brown
!llanova T. Brown
Otis Arthur Brown
Pero;r L. Bruner
John Richard Brunning
Edmund s. Brush
Glenn B, Br7ant
Ro7 Beyant
Jira, Hortense Br7on
Jira. Elizabeth · Buchan
Bartha Buckhant
Ingall Williu Bull
Donald G. Bullie
John Bunker
Samuel w. Burford
Mra. R.B. Burlinga me's
Mother
Perc7 E, Burnham
Archie Re7nolds Burns
Roscoe William Burson
George Burtsche r
Ga7 Frederick Bush
Earl Monroe Buehart, Sr,
Arthur Charle• Butler
W1ll1&111 D. Butler
Dean Holmes Butta, Jr•
Linle7 ¥.ilton B7rd
Robert Luth er Cain, Jr,
Robert J. Campbell
Llo7d Bradner Canfield

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
MEMORIALS (Continued)

MEMORIALS (Oontinuad)
.lrthur H. Fink
Marion J.7aan Gowan•
Hugo c. Del Pero
Benr7 Herbert Fish
Hobert lash Gowd7
William Denison
Roland Robinson Fishell
Hra. Joseph Gower, Sr.
Lo D. Denni•
J~hn
William
0 Lo Grabe
Fisher
T
Kra. Unna Bell• Dennis
Edward H. Fi•luler
Paul Bdsar Grahas
Bo Louia Detjen
Roger
F.
Fit•
Bail
B. Gran
Robert Brooke Deveaee
Amos 'II. Flemings
John w. Grata
Mrs. Georgia ·M, Dibble
Virgil Lo Flora
John Hinton Graves
Theodore c. Dickman
Dwight H. Fobes
Marcus McGraw Graves
Hra. George T. Dixon
Mark
B.
Folsom
Herbert Gr&7 .
Max Donneratag
Charles Robert Foot•
Gordon Hamilton Greens
Victor v. Don•ke7
Frank D. Foote
·
Hovard v. Greene, Jr.
Thoaaa Po Doolittle
Dwight Hopkin• For~••
Benr7 E. Greer
Delmar Dougal•
William F. FoaberT
Cl7de H. Gregg.
6hirle7 DreTer
George Frederick Fox
Robort J. Griffin
William Eail Du Bain
Jam••
Robert
Frackelton
Burt Russell Griffith
ldvard MelTille Durfee
Frank Farrand Franci•
Fred Edvard Griffith
B. Bernie Dunn
Edvard E. Fratera
Thomas Harry Griffith
James John Dutwiler
11.obert Lee Frasier
Philip Charlea GriCharles Dwight
Blliot Freeman
Patty Fern GrilJVold
Ted Eades
Alfred Louie Frehe
Frank Gross
Ueorge Lero7 Bad•
William Carl Froelich
Hana R. Groth
John T. Bal7
Lesli• Frowein
Edvard He11r7 Grui•
D. •Nat• Bdvarda
Harr7 Luther FurrT
Charles Edmund Haas
Paul F, H. G. Ehlers
Clark Gable
John Dw:lle7 Hackataff
Elmo Everton Biffert
He.than Gainale7
"Richard
s. Bai:&dorn
Olof Ekenberi;
Don Carlos Gale
Henry .Albert Hagen
Charles H. Elgar, Sr.
Louis G&111boni
Laura Hall
Everett Woods llgin
Frank Romeo Galbreath
Jesse H. Hambleton
Ruseell William Elkina
McCosh T. Gardiner
Blla . Bard7 Hamilton
Albert V. Ell•r•
Mre. Pearl c. Gardner
A.ndrev A· Ha11111011¢
llaaef Elli•
Artt.ur Peter Gasque
Dr. George H&J1pton
Arthur Elrln
Willia•
J.
Gaston
Lawrence G. Hampton
oven Coluabua E111er7
Clnrence L. Gatea
Eric Hamreue
Stanle7 Milo Enieon
Elmer
Sterling
Ga7ner
Harr7 linnear Hane7
Ernest I; G. Erlandson
William Frederick Gabbard Harold A.lexander Hana•n
Frank Rae Eshelman
Vincent G. Gelcich
Charles E, Harbeson
Jack Bsaion
Sam Geller
Leo Har old Hardman
Barr7 Lucien Ivana
P.
L.
Ge!llllett
Ro7
Harder
Saauel Anthony Bvana
Arthur Eugene Genter
J.e:ne a L. Hargrave•
Leon Earl Everett
Bertraa W. Gibson
Robert KenrT Hargreaves
Lawrence bing
Martis C7rua Gibson
E. D. Harp
Salvatore Failla
Henr7 Dartd Gilbert
.J'rancia G. Harrington
Sarah Falconer
Perc7 Bohlen Gifford
Prida F. Harrington
Clarence c. Farmer
Herman Glaaahoff
Levi Harris
Mann7 Feldatein ·
Philip
Gluck
Mark Lena Harris
Cheater Miles Ferb~ache
George J.lbert Godwin
Benjamin Harrison
Dartd Walter Ferguson
Richard A. Gohl
Karl Francis llartahorn
Mrao El!lllla M. Fernell
Louie Gomea
H&TVard E. Haught
Mra. L. A. Farria
Fred Goodvin
Mariana Hatch
Charles l. Fiedler
Louis L. Gordon
Paul Hawkins
Carlisle Herbert Field
Wendell Holaea Gordon
Ira Lawrence Ha7
George M. Field
Clair Bo Gore
.C17de F. Hqden
John Bo Figela
John G. Gorle7
J.lma Jacob Heger
Louia B. Finck•, Jr.
A.lfred Gould
Charle• Henebrp
A.rl97 Findle7
Irrtn~ Franlc Gow
Lesli• ~hert Henr7
Max Fine

Harold Temple Henson
Dale Harian
Bugh W. Her11a11
Twl 1e L. Herrick
Charles Frederick Herzog
Lo7d E. Hewitt
Wulq W. Hicks
Arthur Hiero117mu•
lthel L. Higgin•
J&111ea W11. tiigle7, Sr.
Robert F, Hilburn
Clifford B. Hill .
Hageaan Earle Hilt7
Charlie s. Hitchcock
Lester D. Hittinger
William Hoar
Victor Hodge
Peter J, Hoff11111
Orton Clark Holden
Pr&Ak Leslie Holland
Charles c. Hollenbeck
Orl7 Bola
Doroth7 Holaea• Father
George Savson Holmes
Clarence H. Ho11e7
Ja11&a Francie Hood
Frank W, Hooton
Maurice B. Horman
pe11r7 J. Horn
rano1a Horn .
Jo•eph Richard Hornbeck
Cleaence B. Horrall
Bdvard s. Houghton
Hra. Lester L. Hoato
Roland LeR07 Bouts
Brneat Draper Hovard
Rollo Raloh Hovden '
Herschel H. Hove
Barr7 Darvin Hovell, Sr.
James Elbert Hovell
Harold Irrt ng Huff•
Agnes Hull
H•nrT Herbert Huleen
John Oscar Hultberg
J'97ette H. Huntoon
William Francie Burl•T
Albert J. Hurst
Corson v; Ide .
W~er Ra7 Ingh . .
,John ·Reed IIUIC'a
Leonard M• .Jaoobaen
Mre. Blaie Habel Jackaan
Brv111 v. B. Jaokaon
Harold J, Jewitt
Waltar Charles Johantgen

Carl Joseph Johnson
Philip M971r Leibeen
John ldgar Johnson
Mrs. Leonard
Lawrence Vernon Johnson
Harr7 Leviaon
Leland Clieater Johnson
otto Wells Levis
Villiaa v. Johnson
lalrtn lllia Linder
ldgar C, Johnston
John Frederick Linder
Edwin Charles Jones
Jack 0. L1111117
William D. Jones
Walter J. Little
Dr. Judkins
Frank: w. o. Llo7d
Mra. Pegg7 H. Junkin
HarrT B. Logan, Sr.
John H•nr7 Kamm
Virgil Jack London
Louis Kaplan
Franlclin Var1h Long
Nathan Katsev
George B•nr7 Loppel
Tollaie lllr.o Lott
Kau!aan
red Xqo
Hre. Virginia Lord
Vernon Freeman Keag7
~ohn Lounabur 7 , Sr.
FraDk H. Keffer
illiam Love
Ralph Lee Keigh
Mra. Iona Lovaan
Alfred C17de Xell97
Jeroae J.delbert Ludden
Edward J.lfred Xell7
HarrT Wilbert LUii
Jamee P. Kelll!lerer
Lester Kovar? Lutes·
Ben~aain Carroll Jendrick Franlc Luton
Walter Trac7 Kentner
Harr7 M. Londeliua
Frank Robert lern
Ah Chung I.7au
Fred L. Jting
Herbert L. 1.)-on
tohn SeTier King
Charles John 1.7ons
alph M. King
Arther LTnoh
Harr7 H. Kingwill
Lac7 HacintTre
Charles Clark Kinnett
Richard H, MaoKeil
Gertrude R. Kirake
Hrs. Margie R. MacPhee
Julius Anton Kiachell
Charles William Hadden
John Ernest Klein
John Haggetti
Joseph Harr7 ltlein
J.rthur I•adore MallerT
Richard c. Klepper
Charles Malouf
Walter Edward ltlinok
Lorraine P, Malone
Deana A Kline
Casper J. Mandella
George Stephen Knapp
John Manfre7
Frank ·Hetcalf e Knight
Charlaa Robert Hanker
William G. Knoche
Noble Lee Hanlcin
Adolf Xoebig, Jr.
Burton 811. Mansfield
o. Eugene Kopperud
Matt Hanue l
Stanle7 Kuklenski
Robert Ro7 Marona
Carl Otto Lagerfelt
Everett Crier· Marks
Ira Perr7 Lamb
Walker Franklin Marple
Thoaaa Robert Lamb
Dan I, Marshall
Ira Conrad Lambert
Florence B, Marshall
Jame a Lap thorn
Pa7ao11 D97 Marshall
Walter F. Larsen
Mra. Blanchi Harthini
Jira. Hiilen Latinr
Frank Hartin
John I, Laughlin
Jaaea F. Martin
U.Obert J. LaVargna
Ottis T. Martin
Fralllt Lawrance
Paul oven Martin
FredeTick Labor Lea
John Rex Masser
Horgan Prime Lee
Donald Ra7 Jlarrtn
Robert Edwin Lee
James Oa1r Maxwell

'ax

131

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

132

MEMORIAL~

MEMORIALS (Continued)
Cody Blanchard Mays
Mrs. Emma J. Hcileth
Arthur c. McBride
Mrs. Earle McCarty
Nosh T. McCauley
Robert Paul McCord
Clarence Lee McCrory
Andrew Jackson McGinley
Mrs. Ethel 1-lcGinnis
Paul D. tlcGraw
Mrs. Nellie Mo McHugh
Ira c. Mcilhaney
Thomas J. Mcintire
Wesley Addison McKee
Eli E. McKinney
Simon James McKinnon
Harold E. McKnight
Raymond UcHannis
Cornelia L. HcNulty
Vincent J. Helandri
Alfred Ira Mellenthin
Manuel o. Mendonca
Vaban Herlian
Charles Vernon Mesne
E. G1enn metcalf
Ann Herzbach
Arthur H. Heussdorffer
Albert F. Meyer
.Mrs. A!lna Barbara Meyer
Walter Thomas ?-layer
Joseph Michalek
Cyril A. D. Midvorth
Carl Curtis Mikesell
Thomas Leroy Hilburn
Percy A. Millar
Carl E. Hiller
Charles Weigle Miller
Lester W. Hiller
Rollie Webster Hiller
Walter G. Hiller
Rose A. Hilton
Mrs. Minnie Misener
Mrs. Helen Miller
Robert Miller
David Leo Mitchell
Boward Mitchell
William L. Hoblett
Walter w. Mooney
Albert L. Moore
E. Francis Moore
Wade Hampton Horman
Frank Dale Horgan
Floyd Mitchel Horris
Mrs. Myrtle c. Horris
Alfred G. Moss
Nelson Gould Hott

133

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Thomas E. Mountford
Oscar Wayne Mulford
Uarl :Cugene Mullenau
Chester w. Murphy
Mrs. Sylva Hurray
Velma llahl
Chr1s P. Hakes
Jack .Neiman
Floyd Nelson
Frank Allen Nelson
Nels Oscar Henry Nelson
William H. c. Nese
Gilbert Nesheim
Ferdinand B. Neuhoff
Herbert Nevius ·
Christanthus P • Nicas
Blaine Noice
Harry G. Nugent
George H. Olmsted
Arthur Carl Olson
E. o. Onstine
William E. Ooley
Frank Cl~e Ordway
David H. Orr
Ode A. Osborne
Merle Francis Otto
Floyd Lorenz Overley
Edgar Lee OWen
Chester H. Paga
Clayton w. Paige
William Wallace Palmer
Jack Palmtag•s Father
Nicholas Marco Pap9as
Harry Edgerton Parker
Hrs. Paroulek
Roy Alva Parrish
J. o. Paschall
Elmer Rose Pascoe
Jack L. Patterson
Robert N. Patterson
George Pattillo
Kenneth s. Pattison
Leslie H. Pearson
Mrs. Elizabeth Peck
George Alvin Pender
Lee Roy Pennington
C. W. Perkins
Felton Perkins
Edward P. Perrine
Guy H. Peterson
Edwin R. Phillips
Glen Alvin Phillips
Leonard G. Phillips
Lindahl R. Phillips
Mr. & Mrs. Theodore
J. PhUlips

B. W. Pierce, Jr.
Edward C. Piercs
Frederick Roe Pierce
Mao Pierce
Charles Henry Pitts
Harry Bates Planck
Lawrence Harter Plank
Anna Charlotte Platt
Benjamin Platt
Frank w. Poole
Mrs. Katherine E.Porter
Raymond c. Porter
Mrs. Verginia Porter
Orville Ray Potter
William Pratty
Harry Mathew Pullman
Edgar N. Raife
Earl Arthur Ray
Cora K. Rayl
w. Elwood Read
Andrew Reich
Hartin A. Reitzel
Robert ·Russell Renner
Walter w. Rennie
Mrs. Ray Rey
George Reynolds
Thomas Edward Rhea
Opie R. Rhodes
Mrs. Bernice Richards
Bertrand E. Richardson
Ernest M. Richardson
Mrs. Julia Ri-ckli
Charles Howard Rider
William Life Ritchie
Hiles D. Roan
Clement Roberts
Ralph Davis Roberts
William N. Roberts
Alford Brown Robinson
Albert A. Roche%
Charles F. Roeder
Walter John Roeschle
Leonard E. Rogers
Samuel B. Rosenberg
Harry Moses Rosenblum
Howard M. Rosino
Robert Sherman Ross
Arthur Henry Rosson
Benjamin A. Roth
Charles Roth
c. N. Roudebush
Mre. Anna Rudebeck
John M. Ruggaber
Theodore R. Runner
Darrell R. Ryno
Willi am J. Saager

Relen'J. Salyarda
Lazar Samaraich
Joseph A. Sanguinetti
Joe Sargent
H. H. Saro
Pietro Sasso
Curtis Isaac Sawdey
Victor A. Sbragia
Harry S. Scales
John Le Grand Schafer
Louis c. Schildwachter
William Paul Schroeder
Adolf Carl Schulze
Norman Birdsell Schuyler
Joseph Henry Scott
Millard L. Scott
Stanley Seagren
Harry Hoopes Sealy
Harry G. Seber
Sally Seder
Henry Herman Severin
Clyde Sevright
Melvin Seymour
Mrs. Clark Shaw
Ernest Berkeley Shaw
Wayne /u Shsffield
Willard c. Sherman
Ertle J. Shinn
Henry C. Shippee
Charles Shire
John Franklin Shuman
Louis Sibilio
Robert E. Siler
Maurice A. Silver
George w. Simmie
Harry Rayaond Simon
Stanley Simpson
Willard H. Simpson
Tom Sims, Jr.
Abe Siskin
Joseph Siskin
Joseph Robert Ska],,etar
Thomas Sladeck
·
Vernon E11£ene Slater
Edwin Henry Slosson
Horris \/. Smea
Andrew H. llni th
David F. Smith
Ed. Sinclair Smith
Elvin William Smith
Fred A. Smith
·
Harland E. Smith
Harold J. S11i th
K. Bundy Siaith
Russell Dodge Smith
Thomae George Smith
Thoma• ~. x. Smit~

(Continued)

Walter s. Snedeker
Ellis W. Timmons
Willia Holman Sneed
.Arthur Edwin Tittenaor
Hiss Lucille Sniffer
Paul Tittman
Alvino G. Soliz
Lester A. Todd
Mrs. Johanna Sommer
Edwin F. Tomas
Jacob P. Sommerin
James Verner Towers
Harold Edward Southern
Jeffrey R. Townsend
Charles Orval Sparks
Herbert Hiles Trafton
Judson Turley Sparks
Albino J. Trigueiro
Mr·s. Harriett Sponseller Jay Lewis Turner
Frank D. Springer, Sr.
Oliver & Carolin
c. W. Sprotte
Tweet en
William J. Stadler
Mrs.A.J9eephine Tyler
themas Wool.ford Stafford -Oliver Blaine Vance
Miles Bruce Stanton
Harry C. Vensano
Abraham Stein
Blaine Hempstead Vlier,Sre
Peter George Steinbach
Clem Ellen Wade
·
Wilbur C. Stevens
Lloyd Howard Wade
Clinton Crandall Steward Jonathan B. Wager
!1elvin M. Stewart
William Waggett
Russell Lee Stewart
Lloyd Hayden Wainscoat
Frank Alfred Stiefel
Thomas H. Waietell
Carl Winifield Stillwell Lee Erwin Wait
Craig Stirewalt
'Harry Ross Walker
Arthur A. Stoeckle
Mrs. David Wallace
Frederick R. Stokes
Robert J4'le Ward
Stanley Stokes
Arthur Burke Watkins
Howard Lawrence Stclper
Walter Watte
Clare E. Stotler
Edna Brinton Webster
Dave Russell Sturrock
Benjamin Werner
John Lawrence Sullivan
William P. Warden
Ion D. Sutton
Lynn H. Wheaton
Mrs. Edythe Swanson
Daniel B. White
Nels E. Swanson
Alfred G. Wichner
Olof Swanson
Alva Lee Wiggins
Willard c. Svenson
Bruce C. Vhi ted
John Courtney Swinford
Frank Rufus Williams
Andrew Jensen Swingholm
Fred Walter Williams
Donald J. Taber
Raymond Lee.Williams
Ernest Milton Taensar
Harry Alfred Wilson
Charles v. Tamagni
Harold Newton Wilson
Albert Robert Taylor
Emil John Windisch
Blaine Taylor
James Lowell Winslow
Walter R. Taylor
Buell H. Witt
John Nicholas Teets
Charles Wixon
J. Hack Templeton
Charles Wolf
Jesse Arial Thomas
Frank c. Wolt'f
Robert L. Thomas
Hugh M. Wood
John R. Thoapson
Thomas Conley Wood
Orrin Hiller Thompson
William Albert Wood
m...a Terry Lynn Thompson Carl Emmett Wood
Walter Miller Thornton
Arthur G. Woodworth
George Bartley Thorpe
Harvey John Woodworth
Barry Thorpe
Carl G. Wopechall
Frank Hanry Thrall
Adolphue.Harion Wren
Kinnie Jane Thurmond
Frederick Charles Wright
Jessee· Rhea Wright
Barr7 A. Tillson

134

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

JBMCllll'I8 (Con t1D• 4)
John Cnar l•• Vr1g ht
John A. Yarga
J. •• Yeager
Kalph Bdward Young

Kalph Lo Young
Walton Young
w1111a111 Zapp att1n 1
:ldwin Fred Zash er

135

REP ORT OF CON TRI BUT ION S TO
ENDOWMENT FUN D
*Denotes Hon or Roll

Walt er Adolf Zero ll
Tern Andareon
ZiJD11era&11
Kalph Waldo Zook
No.

Lodp

1 Cali forn ia

1980 H-ll enhl p Partt d1911
IHI
1960
n
IHI
Hem benh lp Contr lbatto n• patlo
Partl dpatt on
%
Contr lbatlm aa lllem
llen %
................ 473
1,495

2 Wes tern Star .......... 209
3
Teh~~a ···-·········-···

848
5 Beruc1a •.........•........... 238
8 Tuo lum ne ................ 279
9 Cori nthi an ................ 457
10 San Jose ···-·· ·······
12 You nt ···-··-··-·· ·-··· 538
-······· 561
13 Nev ada
···-··-·-········· 177
14 Tem ple -·-···
······ 247
16 Eure ka ........···-···
............. 373
17 La Parf aite Union....
18 Mou ntain Shad e ...... 113
56
19 San Joaq uin ........
.... 812
20 Washi!;igton ..............
916
21 Haw anan .................. 408
22 Occ iden tal ... _......
..... 624
23 Mad ison
··-··· ···· 322
24 Mar ipos a --··... -.............
25 Geo rget own .......-... 196
66
26 El Dora do ................ 277
27 Trin ity ...................... 173
30 Gold en Gate ........
569
32 Gold Hill ....................
.. 117
33 Oph ir ···········-··
·· 89
35 San Diego ···-··········
···-··· 1045
37 How ard ···-······-···
···· 262
38 San ta Cruz ..............
40 Sacr ame nto ···-········· 569
813
41 Mar tinez ···-··-·······
·· 420
42 Los Ang eles
............
43 Hira m ...- ..:................ 977
122
44 Mou nt Mor iah ........ 341
45 Cres cent ···-··-···
..······ 228
46 Texa s ···-···
····-··· 54
50 Forb esto wn ·······
···-·· -··-· 127
51 Illin oisto wn ... -......
55 Suis un -··- ···....·-···. 81
295
56 Volcano ···-··-········· 110
57 San ta Rosa ........
......
58 Unio n ........................ 678
59 Grav el Range .......... 742
96
60 Plum as ...................... 189
61 Live Oak .................. 929
64 Nato ma ....................
65 Ama dor .................... 353
94
68 Mor ning Star ........•. 666
70 Ente rpris e -·--·· ·······
76 Bea r Mou ntain ...... .. 377
76
78 Cala vera s ···-··········
79 Hum bold t ................· 122
532
80 Ione -·-······-···············
102
81 Yolo .......................... 118

.00*
156.00
2, 767.oo•
637.oo•
119.00
333.11
1,408.31*
1,165.50*
484.17*
325.50
403.00
239.00*
103.00
701.50
2,262.68*
1,636.00*
1,410.00*
727.00*
485.25*
157.00*
948.50*
136.oo
1,309.57*
26.00
27.50
4,084.50*
435.50
465.00
2,881.75*
469.85
2,502.00*
175.00
639.00
446.32
109.00*
286.00*
110.00
791.18*
328.00*
1,423.50*
1,500.00*
184.41
408.00*
2,100 .00•
1,105.25*
229.50*
1,382.30*
618.00
47.00
80.00
913.50
300.00*
286.50*

35
18
57
58
12
27
38
49
62
25
24
38
28
10
39
54
32
39
40
41
50
14
50
9
8
50
30
21
56
19
32
42
30
48
30
42
37
41
73
22
44
35
70
35
63
42
31
30
17
20
50
70
36

1,241.50*
473.63*
3,023.oo•
572.oo•
347.35
919.00*
1,635.50*
1,135.40*
366.50*
500.00*
837.00*
195.00
81.00
697.00
3.013.70*
1,313.00*
1,009.50
767.00*
474.50*
209.00*
1,323.13 8
436.oo•
1,314.37 8
64.00
84.50
2,922.00*
530.00*
883.63
3,788.75*
944.76*
2,586.01 *
289.70*
850.00*
469. 71 •
21.00
313.oo•
218.00*
867.25*
343.00*
1,565.00*
1,600.00*
204.00*
391.66*
2,426.oo•
752.35•
120.00
1,430.008
754.50 8
35.50
159.50
1,100.00*
344.00*
241.00*

131
118
500
121
92
136
221
282
95
95
179
36
14
116
419
158
169
133
96
36
158
63
311
12

127

28
56
59
51
33
30
41
50
54
38
48
32
25
14
46
39
27
41
49
55
57
36
55
10
25
38
44
28
76
45
35
52
30
56
13
50
56
39
63
33
49
44
55
29
41
26
44
34

40
268
75
35

33
50
74
30

22

398
115
160
619
189
344
63
101
127
7
64
45
115
69
223
363
42
104
270
145
24

292
8

9

No.

Lodge

1961
1960 Membe nhlp PartlelParUdp atlon
1961
patlon
1960
1961
%
s
Member
atlom
Contrib
%
utlom
Contrlb
Membe nhip

84 Vespe r ...................... 243
87 Naval ........................ 1178
89 Rose's Bar ................ 54
91 North Star ................ 82
93 St. Helen a ................ 137
78
95 He1ll7. Clay ..............
98 Horru tos .................... 103
99 Yosem ite .................. 513
101 Clay .......................... 110
103 Orovi lle ·······-··········· 376
104 Lexin gton ................ 649
106 Arcat a ........................ 345
110 Pajaro ........................ 419
111 Chico ···-··-················· 598
112 Summit...................... 65
113 Eden .......................... 448
117 Conco rd ·······-··········· 390
120 Fideli ty .................... 577
122 Alamo ........................ 460
123 Sotoy ome .................. 244
124 Table Moun tain ...... 298
126 Lafay ette .................. 237
127 Herm ann .................. 173
128 Visali a ...................... 571
129 Nicola us ·······-·········-- 120
131 Wood bridge .............. 198
132 Since rity .................. 99
134 Vacav ille .................. 288
99
135 Valley ···············-·······
136 Pacifi c ........................ 548
139 Crock ett .................... 492
140 Curtis ........................ 97
141 Grafto n ···-·-----········· 115
143 Frank lin ···········-······· 149
144 Orien tal .................... 332
145 Vitruv ius .................. 129
146 Abell .......................... 362
147 Eel River .................. 259
149 Lassen........................ 239
150 Molino........................ 165
156 Wood land ···-············· 312
161 Keyst one .................. 39
164 Harm ony .................. 28
166 Excel sior .................. 426
167 Alame da .................... 267
665
168 Redw ood City
169 Missio n ...................... 610
173 Elk Grove .................. 144
174 Dryto wn ·······-··-······· 61
175 Antio ch ...................... 416
178 Phoen ix .................... 767
179 Mend ocino ................ 119
180 Petalu ma .................. 342
181 Russia n River .......... 123
182 Arbuc kle .................... 85

180.50
2,789.25*
15.00
221.00*
282.45*
353.50*
43.00
577.00
246.00*
625.50
1,421.79*
916.40*
867.00*
1,369.00*
77.50
677.20
841.00*
1,475.50*
515.90
320.50
583.75
160.00
409.00*
1,224.oo•
-·-··-·· ··
451.50*
249.00*
82.85
52.00
207.00
347.50
·······-·····
139.00
542.25*
1,129.50*
196.50
553.50
527.50*
495.00*
219.50
631.00*
10.25
58.00*
931.50*
532.50*
1,665.28*
1,321.50*
465.oo•
187 .50*
731.10
1,835.81 *
75.50
457.00
246.00*
179.00*

137

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

136

14
48
8
95
57
73
11
15
45
50
40
28
37
100
34
20
38
35
15
32
61
12
57
39

50
41
7
12
5
12
11
70
43
30
38
41
49
32
47
5
100
41
31
47
31
53
52
56
38
17
26
52
41

315.50
3,356.50*
61.00
110.00
286.50*
290.50*
120.00
1,285.50*
415.00*
855.75*
1,411.13*
1,070.50*
749.50
1,371.20*
50.00
941.25*
912.50*
1,655.50*
772.15
362.00
680.25*
178.25
400.00*
1,509.16*
34.00
525.00*
282.00*
600.75*
124.00
108.50
766.50
146.00
176.00
1,051.00*
1,556.50*
271.00*
650.50
766.00*
523.50*
180.75
639.oo•
39.00
58.00*
1,055.50*
607.50*
2,174.00*
1,632.50*
520.oo•
171.00*
675.71
2,096.75*
110.00
686.oo•
289.50*
219.50*

19
47
57
673
14 26
30
25
54
74
54 69
25 24
178 35
64
70
65
246
35
227
37
127
156 37
54
325
14 22
125 28
164 42
37
211
138 30
86 35
68
203
34 14
57
49
254 45
11
13
125 63
53 54
100 35
16 16
2
10
128 26
63
61
23
27
61
91
176 53
50 39
148 41
119 46
110 46
27
45
145 46
8 21
428 100
164 38
84 31
393 59
41
251
49
70
32 52
142 34
385 50
19
23
116 34
54
67
48
41

No.

183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244

Lod11a

1961
1960 Member ahlp Partlel1961
Particip ation
patlon
1960
1961
utiona
Contrlb
%
a
%
Member
utlon1
Contrlb
hl11
Memben

138
Sie1:1"a Valley ............ 35
Claib_orne .................. 80
73
Ev~rung Star ............
Keith .......................... 189
Oakla nd .................... 791
No~hern Light. ....... 114
Mann ·······-······-······· 544
~anta Barba ra ........ 362
ernda le .................... 92
iifoun tain View ...... 383
S uckey e ···················· 152
97
a_~ ~imeon ..............
;ri ~mgton .............. 664
art ey ...................... 238
ft1cke~ ...................... 143
ilveyv ille ................ 156
~entalpha ................ 447
92
s o~dence ................ 637
a!mas ......................
0 liv~t ........................ 142
S
~arus~aus .................. 660
R' ahe.un .................. 505
io Vista .................. 184
Kin
Fr' g D a~•1'd's ............ 422
S iends~ip ................ 741
an Beruto ................ 182
So. San Franc isco... . 228
~a~ Buena ventu ra.. 442
a . Grove ................ 565
Doric .......................... 432
~ont~rey .................. 309
osaic ........................ 258
~peranza Ualian a .... 245
I owney ···················· 917
:yo ·=··················--······ 162
B o~eville .................. 467
Ba ersfiel d .............. 780
S rookly n .................. 502
Aan Mateo ·······-······· 643
thens ...................... 200
~olano ........................ 567
orth Butte .............. 243
Jovelo . ........................ 77
an.esville .................. 166
Calist oga .................... 128
H ope ........................... 112
70
~1:'[Prise Valley ......
158
1 ls Ferry ................
Guada lupe ................ 213
~lusa ........................ 158
nta Ana ................ 580
Magn olia .................. 490
~ycalyptus ................ 535
catraz .................... 560
C~ear Lake ................

81.00
34.08
23.00
59.00
377.50
1,803.00•
47.00
1,216.35*
1,061.80*
···-·········
1,003.25*
341.00•
228.00•
1,198.29
181.00
1,079.15*
86.50
1,535.32*
187.oo•
769.00
236.80
979.75
1,063.51 *
417.50*
821.11
982.00
445.50*
564.oo•
1,037.40*
570.50
599.50
653.oo•
578.oo•
781.50*
2,511.57*
372.25•
1,041.25*
1,309.00
860.50
1, 756.50*
483.00*
429.30
539.oo•
73.00
324.00
130.00
168.00
53.00
375.50*
800.50*
123.50
1,522.50*
2,011.50*
1,112.00•
1,396.50*

14
11
9
41
55
37
14
51
87

32
53
52
22
13
85
14
38
62
24
52
23
26
55
43
14
51
41
39
13
14
46
44
37
43
48
38
28
21
46
39
16
71
18
43
28
39
18
44
62
13
35
63
42
44

144.00
61.00
109.50
208.50•
410.00*
1 094 50*
'118:00
1,318.70*
949.29•
393 50*
1,414:40•
454. 72*
300.oo•
1,686.50*
437.00
958.50•
28115
1,550:00•
244.oo•
659.50
168.50
1,320.50•
1,241.68*
531 50*
. *
852.09
1,348.78
472 50*
676:75*
1,182.50*
2,316.00*
791.50
644.oo•
540 oo•
835:00•
3,937.87*
375.50 •
1,036.50*
1,880.00*
951.00
1,775.oo•
429.00*
919.80
500.00•
10.00
340.00•
280.50*
165.50
33.00
343.25*
780.oo•
239.50
1 483 22•
1:870:00•
1,253.oo•
1,120.00*

20
28
9 26
28
22
56
41
52
99
18
143
25
28
46
252
61
221
92 100
51
194
66
101
77
75
34
224
26
62
143 100
59 38
39
175
62
57
199 31
44
62
40
265
32
161
115 63
50
212
30
221
59
108
47
108
43
191
34
190
33
141
125 40
43
111
50
122
56
512
47
76
180 39
34
269
124 25
48
306
36
72
26
145
71
173

5

86
64
42
10
71
103
44
213
314
238
249

6

52
50
38
14
45
48
28
37
64
44
44

138

No.

Lodge

1911
1968 Memberahlp PartidParttdpatioa
1981
patlon
1980
1961
Contrlbatlou Member•
%
Membenhlp Contrlbatlona
%

245 Laurel ........................ 259
246 Pomona --------······-····· 438
247 Fresno ........................ 730
248 Alturas ...................... 197
250 A din .................................. 101
253 Landmark ......................... 110
254 Reading ............................. 283
255 Welcome·······-··········· 209
256 Lodi ............................ 395
258 Penrhyn ···········-······· 150
259 Evergreen ·······-······· 753
260 King Solomon's ...... 418
95
261 Tuscan ....................................
262 Lompoc ...................... 229
264 Hesperian .................. 416
265 Orland ........................ 167
266 North East ................ 257
89
267 Galt ............................
268 Durant ...................................... 430
269 Olive Branch ···-····· 313
46
271 Snow Mountain ......
272 Pasadena ................................ 549
273 Anchor .................................. 633
274 Arroyo .............................. 181
275 Oakdale .............................. 211
277 Selma ...................................... 239
278 So. California .......... 448
279 Hanford ..................... 234
280 Madera ...................... 275
281 Mount Shasta .......... 158
69
282 Callayomi ..................
283 South West .............. 583
79
285 San Miguel ..............
286 Paso Robles ............. 307
249
287 Winnedumah
68
288 Maxwell ....................
289 Elsinore ........................... 138
290 East Gate ................... 685
291 Santa Paula ............ 413
292 Los Gatos .................. 398
293 Orange Grove ........... 336
294 Traver···············-······· 149
116
295 Mt. Jackson
296 Silver Gate .............. 1265
297 Dunsmuir .................. 266
299 Liberty ...................... 378
300 Redlands ..................... 506
301 Ontario ...................... 527
170
302 Santa Lucia
303 Porterville ···-··········· 516
304 Reedley ···········-·-····· 167
305 Azusa ···············-······· 352
306 Ashlar···············-······· 336
307 Santa Monica .......... 388
308 Monrovia .................. 337

646.50*
545.15
2,216.12*
333.00
258.00*
208.35
941.50*
196.10
813.00*
27.00
1,931.59*
1,120.75*
196.00*
459.25*
3,996.50*
141.50
23.00
195.00*
1,415.50*
477.50
88.00*
1,921.38*
1,874.03*
258.50
185.00
506.00*
1,495.39*
248.00
622.75*
152.50
8.00
1,228.37*
184.00*
652.75*
507.03*
74.00
151.50
2,325.75*
843.96*
974.25*
688.73*
107.00
219.50*
2,798.00*
634.50*
896.00*
1,644.85*
1,057.oo•
342.00*
1,137.50*
128.00
783.06*
299.82
1,200.66*
848.00*

139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

47
31
52
47
50
94
53
25
37
5
29
47
100
46
48
23
10
36
35
26
100
47
63
33
32
35
30
16
44
30
37
62
64
65
28
18
39
35
45
45
13
39
36
39
45
45
33
38
33
10
49
17
45
41

561.00*
992.68*
2,378.72*
458.00*
101.50
224.50*
876.00*
314.75
563.00
152.00
1,631.41 *
913.00*
100.00
437.00
4,254.00*
346.50*
5.00
270.00*
1,278.67*
638.00*
46.00
2,067.41*
2,576.94*
422.11*
422.00*
794.00*
2,278.37*
471.00*
661.00*
441.00*
32.00
1,053.37
160.00*
673.00*
559.39*
100.00
468.14*
2,529.98*
1,074.25*
865.00*
782.75*
173.00
232.00*
3,094.24*
549.50*
832.00*
1,647.98*
1,077.00*
372.00*
1,089.50*
161.00
739.89*
563.90
1,487.15*
833.88*

41
107
49
213
50
364
197 100
24
24
91
100
47
133
34
72
30
120
33
35
28
209
36
151
33
31
41
94
52
216
44
73
2
1
52
46
41
178
35
111
20
9
46
251
76
483
49
88
46
97
52
124
44
196
33
78
46
127
63
99
7
10
35
206
53
42
58
178
76
189
24
35
59
81
43
293
41
171
47
188
45
150
23
15
48
56
36
453
42
112
46
174
41
207
34
178
43
73
30
154
21
13
42
147
40
133
124 32
66
221

No.

309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368

Lodse

1111
1960 Memberahlp ParttdPartldpatlon
patlon
1961
1980
1911
Hembera
Contrlbatlona
Memberahlp Contrlbationa
%

Delano ........................ 254
Sisson ............................... 115
Los Banos ................ 148
Tehachapi ................ 204
Temescal .................. 284
Norwalk .................... 430
Sanger ........................ 346
Fallbrook .................. 164
Emmanuel ................ 91
791
Hollenbeck
South Gate :::::::::::::: 527
Alisal .......................... 178
Alhambra ........................... 637
Whittier . ........................... 809
Corona ..................................... 436
Consuelo ···········-······· 361
Needles ................................... 348
Long Beach ···-··-····· 625
Redondo .................... 744
Vallee de France...... 123
Kilauea ...................... 192
Pacific Grove .......... 298
San Pedro ................ 514
Alta ···················-······· 139
Covina ................................... 514
West Gate ................ 1223
Fruitvale ·······-········· 792
Carquinez ................ 192
San Jacinto ............... 119
Fullerton ...................... 393
Oxnard ...................... 456
San Fernando ·······-· 742
Starr King ................ 519
Brentwood ···-··········· 146
Palo Alto .................. 772
McKinley .................. 497
San Bernardino ...... 941
Sequoia ...................... 974
Palestine .................... 490
Sunset···············-······· 315
Pinole ........................ 182
Presidio ·······--·-······· 444
Hollywood ................ 1256
Mill Valley .............. 448
Buena Park .............. 349
Golden State ............ 641
Loyalton .................... 96
San Francisco ···-····· 267
Fort Bragg ................ 157
Charity···········-········· 178
Berkeley ···········-······· 609
Willits ........................ 160
Las Palmas .............. 1066
South Pasadena ...... 615
Unity .......................... 600

605.00*
128.25
186.00
588.50*
610.75*
827.51*
485.50
37.00
190.00*
2,156.38*
1,714.75*
356.00*
1,270.00*
1,809.06*
1,086.41*
861.70*
4.00
1,878.70*
1,517.09*
335.50*
664.00*
512.13
1,045.37*
315.00*
28.80
2,797.50*
1,679.00*
416.00*
255.75*
815.78*
586.50
1,800.52*
1,180.00*
529.50*
2,369.00*
567.75
1,991.19*
2,545.20*
1,027.54*
1,047.90*
223.86
794.50
2,867.75*
990.00*
669.60*
1,540.40*
76.00
726.00*
238.50
448.50*
552.00
5.00
2,164.30*
1,328.89*
1,889.05*

55
28
48
45
41
43
41
10
63
29
40
100
40
27
64
49
38
30
100
57
23
37
49
50
74
44
47
34
24
58
43
85
64
21
28
36
45
56
34
30
29
32
66
34
19
54
29
35
17
34
29
67

"

1,016.50*
83.00
302.25*
449.50*
336.50
883.15*
707.oo•
88.00
199.00*
3,103.86*
2,454.23*
358.00*
1,666.64*
1,628.12*
2,090.88*
591.50
2,036.76*
2,378.53*
1,792.44*
362.00*
666.40*
722.50*
1,042.50*
333.00*
2,270.94*
3,135.18*
1,672.16*
405.00*
245.00*
870.53*
1,123.00*
1,822.76*
6,406.00*
302.00*
2,296.50*
1,447.25*
2,216.59*
2,903.10*
1,123.50*
1,186.67*
307.53
1,184.50*
4,515.96*
1,233.00*
829.67*
1,566.63*

70
178
15
17
65
96
46
94
21
59
167
39
164
47
12
20
62
56
313
40
62
329
178 100
46
296
215
27
48
208
108
30
348 100
46
289
24
177
123 100
62
119
34
102
187
36
76
55
375
73
475
39
455
57
47
90
47
56
106
27
41
189
440
59
273
53
48
70
412
53
42
211
32
301
373
38
174
36
197
63
36
65
166
37
623
50
160
36
48
169
214
33

666.00*
67.00
436.50*
609.00
95.50
2,182.73*
1,888.23*
1,978.45*

145
18
63
103
22
358
251
385

.....................

54
11
35
17
14
34
41
64

No.

Lodge

1961
1960 Membe nhlp Partid·
Particip ation
1961
patlon
1960
1961
n %
utlona
Membe
Contrib
%
Member ohip Contrlb utiona

369 Ocean Park .............. 527
370 Amity ···············-······· 383
371 le Progr es de
l'Ocea nie .............. 702
372 Garde na .................... 508
373 West Los Angeles.... 488
374 Jewel ·······-··············· 199
375 Richm ond .................. 450
376 Franc is Drake ........ 447
377 Artesi a ·················-··· 248
378 Mizpa h ······················ 385
379 Fillmo re .................... 245
380 Hunti ngton Beach .. 334
381 Ocean side .................. 531
382 Highl and Park ........ 600
383 Orosi .......................... 149
384 El Centr o .................. 523
385 Dinub a ...................... 293
387 Coalin ga .................... 399
388 Parna ssus .................. 703
389 Palos Verde s ............ 686
390 Imper ial .................... 147
391 East Belt .................. 119
392 West Lake ................ 774
393 Balde r ........................ 489
394 Unive rsity ·······-······· 527
395 Turlo ck -···················· 424
396 Apollo ........................ 450
397 Rising Light ............ 1000
399 Frater nity ................ 433
400 Burlin game .............. 671
401 Bay View .................. 678
402 Brawl ey ···········-······· 243
403 Y erba Buena ............ 894
404 Glend ora .................... 278
405 Mone ta ...................... 577
406 Burba nk ·······-··········· 848
407 La Mesa ·············-····· 648
408 Sierra Madre ............ 205
409 Honol ulu .................. 413
410 Chart er Rock -·········· 283
411 Perris ·······-······-······· 157
412 Calex ico .................... 143
414 Arling ton .................. 309
415 Silver Trowe l .......... 423
416 Linds ay .................... 218
417 Clovis ........................ 567
418 Elysia n ...................... 431
419 Uplan d ·············-······· 282
420 Kerm an ...................... 144
421 Inglew ood ................ 774
422 Eagle Rock .............. 515
423 York ···-··-········-······· 355
424 Exete r ·······-······-······· 228
425 Holtv ille .................... 159

141

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

PROCE EDING S OP THE

140

43
35

1,375.91•
801.00•

35
40

1,533.23•
826.oo•

227
135

1,452.50•
1,132.42•
1,512.12•
178.00
748.00
923.oo•
657.oo•
1,863.58•
712.75•
267.62
1,101.00•
1,231.18•
326.60•
1,745.64•
252.00
884.22•
1,469.75•
743.00
219.00
242.00•
2,212.17•
1,004.00·
1,164.46•
851.00•
1,102.25•
2,110.50•
726.00
1,577.oo•
469.07
778.oo•
2,147.oo•
512.63•
1,673.oo•
2,297.50•
1,473.68•
538.44•
1,086.50•
782.50•
169.00
123.50
717_52•
1,347.38•
33.00
1,542.50•
3,005.oo•
620.24•
307.50•
3,932.65•
1,342.32•
238.00
476.50•
325.50•

29
38
46
21
23
32
51
56
56
18
43
32
50
67
15
38
36
15
34
39
43
39
24
42
44
31
27
35
16
53
23
53
48
48
48
57
43
37
30
18
35
51

1,464.50•
1,438.51•
1,754.36•
401.00•
729.50
969.51•
580.85•
2,037.39•
490.00•
442.79
1,345.41•
1,303.31•
343.50•
1,130.58•
719.oo•
1,031.35•
1,730.75•
l,636.oo•
303.oo•
242.00•
2,087.83•
1,976.25•
1,393.68•
867.oo•
989.25•
3,826.46•
959.20•
1,755.88•
558.60
828.11•
2,110.50•
676.oo•
1,706.14•
1,809.62•
1,436.46•
506.34•
1,136.65•
824.50•
233.00
308.oo•
875.oo•
1,056.11•
627.oo•
1,905.66•
911.24•
582.30•
358.50•
2,614.73•
1,765.22•
313.02
584.oo•
458.29•

287 41
193 38
193 40
44
88
116 26
158 35
115 46
60
231
94 38
33
110
48
256
34
206
48
71
39
202
145 49
147 37
279 40
31
211
43
63
53 45
49
380
43
212
163 31
45
191
169 38
573 57
157 36
247 37
84 12
56
135
223 25
56
151
46
267
51
436
274 42
36
74
44
181
36
101
59 38
34 24
135 44
31
133
134 61
44
251
130 30
46
131
80 56
330 43
54
277
14
49
35
79
60 38

2

38
36
47
46
34
49
14
32
31

No.

426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483

Lodge

1961
1960 Membe nhlp Part!d·
1961
patlon
Particip ation
1960
1961
Contrill atlons Membe n
%
%
Menabe nhip Contrib atlons

Midw ay ........... _______ 476
Chino ,Valle y ............ 219
S~ Dimas ................ 173
Pittsb urg .................. 350
Mcclo ud .................... 107
Alpha ........................ 521
Ha~onton .............. 110
Maric opa .................. 202
Fairm ount ................ 428
Clarem ont ................ 182
Lan~aster .................. 557
Tyrian ........................ 222
Stand ard .................. 349
Coron ado .................. 407
Black mer .................. 1193
Scho.~ield :··················· 311
c~~teria .............. 133
Wilsh ire .................... 499
La Puent e ................ 235
Torran ce ·······-········· 584
Moun t Diablo .......... 456
Park ............................ 420
Van Nuys .................. 1146
Monte bello .............. 722
San Pasqu al ............ 586
Bethle hem ................
Crock er ···-··············· 629
Golde n West ............ 547
Ramo na .................... 549
Henry S. Orme ...... 601
River bank ................ 152
Moun t Oso ................ 355
Argon aut .................. 380
Paul Rever e ............ 613
Morga n Hill ·········-··· 164
Alta Vista -·············· 248
C~nter ........................ 548
Libert as .................... 725
Culve r City •........... 423
Rockr idge ........... ..... 439
Yorba Linda ............ 187
Linco ln •..................... 338
Delta ···········-············· 505
Maui ·······-·· -············· 203
B!yth e ........................ 173
Victor y ...................... 247
Ameri ca ·······-··········· 451
Coach ella ···-··-···-···· 246
Temb lor ·······-······-··· 148
Thous and Oaks ...... 516
Golde n ~ule ............ 705
Fellow ship ................ 293
Mt. David son .......... 370
Claren ce F. Smith .. 350
Bell ···-·····················- 812

839.18
206.50
444.91 •
329.24
230.50*
1,439.70*
154.00
457.26*
969.30*
217.50
1,580.24*
142.00
491.72
830.oo•
3,015.63•
645.25*
397.oo•
2,669.04•
223.00
1,435.64*
1,361.50*
641.00
2,530.92*
1,653.58*
2,132.53*
425.50
890.50*
2,627.oo•
1,338.97*
1,628.62*
177. 75
750.oo•
804.72*
1,943.50*
304.00
2.00
1,229.49*
1,112.25
1,170. 79•
550.50
389.91 *
1,111.80•
1,035.25•
487.50*
306.00
236.82
1,575.98•
637.01 *
310.50•
1,163.50•
1,805.00•
618.67•
1,179.50•
900.oo•
2,050.46*

35
18
68
33
44
45
38
36
25
40
50
14
66
29
38
50
65
55
28
38
46
31
39
44
53
32
41
54
45
39
40
36
44
53
36

45
26
21
29
52
53
34
61
33
21
44
51
29
33
50
37
52
45
40

893 44
376:00
366.50•
277.00
294.oo•
1,193.20*
184.00
664 oo•
1,421.'29•
398.25*
2,020.73•
37.00
342.65
949.oo•
3,142.31 *
627.25*
360.oo•
3,172.72•
369.00
1 213.18*
1;947.52•
916.50*
3,722.32*
1,727.56*
2,394.96*
.............•
1,626.00*
1,823.50*
1,847.24*
2,171.50•
203.32
712.oo•
870.59*
1,984.33•
269.50
2,005.50*
1,253.50*
1,512.75•
1,957.83•
753.00
417.75*
1,030.80•
1,135.69*
851.00•
381.25•
348.05
1,450.43*
746.25•
460.00•
1,339.50•
1,978.50•
653.50 •
1,165.50*
1,009.58•
2,652.46•

177
65
98
60
57
189
35
92
210
85
340
9
141
152
480
142
83
300
50
187
266
160
585
355
327

37
30
57
17
53
36
32
46
49
47
61
4
40
37
40
46
62
60
21
32
58
38
51
49
56

49
309
31
171
44
240
47
283
32
49
37
132
47
178
54
328
40
66
219 88
49
270
34
250
52
222
35
152
75
140
174 51
160 32
203 100
42
73
34
85
173 38
59
146
55
81
37
189
363 51
31
91
194 52
139 40
46
372

No.

Lodge

1911
1960 Membenhlp PartldPartldpatlon
1961
patlon
1960
1961
ContrlbatlOM Hembertl %
%
!llembenhlp Contrlbatlona

484 Albert Pike .............. 244
485 Chowchilla .............. 179
486 Caledonia .................. 560
487 Vallejo ...................... 394
488 Patterson .................. 169
489 East Bay ···-············· 334
490 Corcoran .................. 140
491 Woodstock ................ 433
492 Garvanza .................. 325
493 Atascadero ................ 146
494 Acorn ·······-··············· 660
495 Lebanon .................... 444
497 Fremont .................... 532
498 Stockton .................... 192
499 Capital City ·······-··· 648
500 Roosevelt .................. 214
501 Westwood ···-··········· 267
502 Harbor ···-······-········· 606
503 Point .......................... 331
504 Seaside ·······-············· 561
505 Silver Cord .............. 568
506 Mount Olive ............ 945
507 El Segundo .............. 502
508 Joppa ........................ 101
509 Benjamin Franklin.. 337
510 Cupertino···- ············· 236
511 Sunnyvale ·······-······· 423
512 Palms ·······-··············· 523
513 Cahuenga -················ 555
514 Argonne .................... 341
515 Vermont Square ...... 473
516 Taft ·······- ······-··········· 313
517 Mount Vernon ·-····· 211
518 La Jolla ···-··············· 335
519 Euclid ·········-······-····· 386
520 Ionic ···············-··········· 1155
521 Piedmont .................. 238
522 Sunrise ···-················· 308
523 Bellflower ................ 644
524 Catalina Island ........ 145
525 George Washington 437
526 Bay City.................... 427
527 Covenant .................. 268
528 Beverly Hills............ 574
529 Loyalty ···············-··· 647
530 Sun Garden ............ 544
531 Alexandria ·······-····· 184
532 Smyrna ...................... 196
533 Azure ........................ 366
534 Forest Hill ................ 199
535 Alexander Hamilton 298
536 Seal Rock ................ 195
537 Utopia ···············-······· 658
538 Ascot .......................... 352
539 Belvedere ................ 199

537 .26*
182.50
818.95
473.00
388.50*
284.50
201.00
366.50
676.42*
460.83*
882.50
870.00*
1,214.36*
320.00
1,437.50*
491.00*
597.10*
2,471.10*
728.25*
1,711.00*
1,362.49*
1,861.50
1,131.16*
212.00•
805.00*
317.50
537.00
2,093.96*
1,724.25*
332.00
1,090.07*
1,002.00*
445.50*
413.50
849.42*
2,300.00*
729.50*
1,060.96*
1,376.66*
328.00*
932.75*
581.75
633.04*
1,223.50*
2,130.50*
758.64
397 .oo•
284.50
1,335.10*
455.00*
679.25*
499.00•
1,468.55*
757.oo•
415.23*

34
24
41
20
54
12
35
14
29
52
32
32
39
32
49
36
56
77
42
50
46
33
44
88
29
29
28
81
89
9
33
74
44
21
26
35
36
55
30
49
38
27
44
46
50
16
56
23
72
45
35
43
29
27
35

143

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

142

512.51 *
222.00
724.08
882.20*
244.50
269.00
245.50
648.58
1,060.31 *
491.66*
1,348.62*
880.00
1,565.87*
355.50
1,468.25*
187.74
634.00*
2,275.35*
881.00*
1,795.40*
1,233.81 *
3,428.05*
1,116.47*
222.50*
863.03*
476.00*
417.00
1,239.07*
1,873.04*
431.00
1,411.32*
995.38*
448.00*
399.00
946.89*
2,432.00*
977 .oo•
980.88*
1,629.51 *
454.37*
1,069.21 *
919.25*
557.76*
1,437.89*
2,040.19*
1,028.00
428.oo•
200.00
1,421.31 *
581.50*
122.32
533.50*
2,314.88*
894.90*
431.40*

No.

70
50
187
155
53
39
93
135
131
73
266
177
281
65
335
36
158
260
154
285
232
443
201
100
90
78
102
226
534
55
211
175
104
56
124
450
112
137
201
97
181
185
101
261
327
152
90
34
221
175

29
28
33
39
31
12
66
31
40
50
40
40
53
34
52
17
59
43
47
51
41
47
40
99
27
33
24
43
96
16
45
56
49
17
32
39
47
44
31
67
41
43
38
45
51
28
49
17
60
88

96
266
103
82

49
40
29
41

6

2

Lodge

1961
1960 Membenhlp Partld·
1961
Partlelpatlon
patlon
1960
1981
ContrlbatlOM Hembera
%
%
Hembenhlp Contribatlona

540 Queen Beach............ 188
541 Henry M. Stephens.. 321
542 N~rth Hollywood .... 1069
543 Signal ........................ 552
544 Glendale .................. 809
545 Jonathan.................... 199
546 San Gabriel ............ 582
547 Ar~adia ...................... 603
548 Tri~gle .................... 348
549 Justice···-··················· 400
550 Seaport ·······-············· 223
551 Lakeshore ................ 265
552 Semper Virens ........ 343
554 Educator.................... 392
555 White Pine .............. 100
556 Fairfax ...................... 489
557 He~mos~ ···:················ 440
558 Point Firnun ............ 348
559 Craftsmen ................ 377
560 Plymouth .................. 402
561 East San Diego........ 856
562 Pyramid .................... 318
563 South_ Park................ 409
564 Foothill ·······-- ········· 1005
565 West Adams ............ 351
566 James A. Garfield.... 240
567 Searchlight ·······-····· 447
568 Park Boulevard ...... 431
569 Chateau Thierry ...... 359
570 Military Service...... 318
571 Francis K. Shattuck 235
572 James Madison...... .. 367
573 Hillcrest ·······-··········· 81
574 S. W. Hackptt............ 615
575 Fort Crook ................ 205
576 El Cajon Valley .... 533
577 Sunnyside ................ 426
578 Progressive .............. 519
579 Warren G. Harding.. 645
580 Santa Maria ............ 122
581 'Security .................... 423
582 Rialto ........................ 312
583 Wasco ........................ 347
584 Harding .................... 301
585 Manchester ·······-····· 370
586 Garden Grove .......... 401
587 Valley Forge ............ 416
588 El Sereno ................ 437
589 Kauai ........................ 117
590 Compass .................... 353
591 Escalon ·······- ··········· 167
592 Tujunga .................... 387
593 All States ................ 544
594 Service ·······-············· 932
595 Alexander G. Bell .. 279

515.00*
315.00
2,762.11 *
1,110.00*
2,008.81 *
428.50*
1,702.00*
1,662.37*
939.14*
559.70
462.00*
538.00*
795.60*
519.50
230.00*
985.00*
251.36
540.58
310.50
730.75
1,708.50*
647 .50*
1,022.00•
1,221.25
596.55
1,066.50*
664.30
882.oo•
403.00
667.50*
197 .50
1,087.00*
205.50*
1,664.82*
408.00•
1,034.25*
915.81 *
1,290.51 *
1,317.50*
380.63*
1,005.50*
650.25*
838.50*
837 .15*
820.48*
1,085.25*
1,048.97*
1,027.63*
499.50*
793.oo•
78.50
990.80*
1,191.60*
2,178.21*
898.47*

40
9
39
28
77
52
49
43
74
22
51
50
45
23
72
45
6
27
18
30
42
31
35
27
23
38
27
37
22
30
33
36
34
41
71
37
32
43
59
91
47
44
56
34
34
43
57
37
59
70
17
44
31
46
49

529.75*
876.00*
3,647.13*
1,224.42*
2,480.09*
402.25*
2,002.39*
1,850.61 *
1,179.80*
932.50*
468.50*
562.80*
781.00*
555.86
205.00*
996.50*
1,003.71 *
1,149.38*
788.90*
837.50*
1,730.58*
636.61 *
1,251.73*
2,025.29*
995.08*
1,328.00*
862.65
1,000.00•
401.25
636.oo•
360.75
825.oo•
179.90*
1,936.92*
446.oo•
1,138.29*
1,139.73*
1,508.27*
1,625.24*
385.oo•
934.48*
681.97*
372.00
656.01 *
763.93*
949.50*
1,168.15*
1,377.56*
568.00*
785.75*
85.50
778.05*
1,423.42*
2,462.72*
1,735.11 *

49
93
28
90
45
476
194 35
93
753
51
102
52
303
48
288
73
254
51
204
61
136
58
153
46
157
28
108
54
54
44
213
28
125
51
179
116 31
132 33
41
355
31
97
44
179
40
406
34
121
116 48
27
121
184 43
27
96
31
99
30
70
27
99
38
31
53
326
74
152
190 36
184 43
45
232
70
451
84 69
45
189
39
121
27
96
28
85
32
117
190 47
55
228
50
219
58
68
65
231
16
27
184 48
39
210
45
418
62
172

No.

Lodge

1961
1960 Memberahlp PartldPartldpation
1961
1960
pation
1961
%
Memberahlp Contrlbutlona
%
Contribution• Memben

596 Guardian .................. 1001
598 Pearl Harbor .......... 613
599 Carmelita ................ 377
600 Lynwood .................. 567
601 Grizzly ...................... 127
602 Melrose ...................... 253
603 Dimond .................... 283
604 Jubilee ...................... 421
605 Glassell Park .......... 409
607 Sojourner ................ 312
608 Granada .................... 835
609 Provident .................. 500
610 Elmhurst .................. 287
611 Canoga ...................... 429
612 Temple City ............ 572
613 Three Pillars ............ 456
614 Larchmont ................ 408
615 Hemet ........................ 237
616 R. E. Dolley .............. 250
617 Big Bear .................... 166
618 Southland .................. 368
619 Neptune .................... 319
620 Point Loma .............. 733
621 The Gardens ............ 532
622 Atwater .................... 378
623 Menorah .................... 1110
624 Fortitude ···········-····· 211
625 Angeles Mesa .......... 728
626 Chula Vista .............. 675
627 Lamanda Park........ 301
628 Truth···············-····-··· 240
629 Fairvew .................... 307
630 Ingleside .................. 218
631 Benevolence ............ 265
632 Normal Heights ...... 813
633 Poinsettia .................. 758
634 Victorville ................ 274
635 Riverside .................. 616
636 John Marshall.......... 294
637 Palisades .................... 449
638 Indian Rock .............. 218
639 Composite ···········-··· 653
640 Veritas ·····-················· 150
641 James A. Foshay...... 227
642 La Cumbre ···-··-··-··· 344
643 Alta Loma ................ 409
644 Lomita ...................... 384
645 A. F. E. Irwin.......... 268
646 Metropolitan ............ 179
647 Hawthorne................ 594
648 Damascus .................. 719
649 Florence ·······--·-········ 432
650 La Brea .................... 273
651 Menlo Park .............. 338
652 Crescenta Valley .... 605

2,273.oo•
1,633.50•
1,262.52•
1,854.52•
266.oo•
566.98•
694.97•
837.02•
851.78•
408.80
1,731.57•
1,195.25•
579_50•
804.82
1,921.73•
1,074.00•
1,691.64•
744.75•
885.04•
362.50•
890.oo•
669.92•
1,520.00•
1,070.02•
884.75•
5,066.08•
179.50
1,500.42•
1,462.00•
697.96•
708.50•
666.59•
555_50•
536.oo•
1,673.06•
1,627 .36•
633.44•
1,332.46•
664.57•
1,640.25•
510.00•
1,263.50
261.00
710.oo•
1,192.50•
1,021.45•
1,149.75•
687.oo•
435.48•
1,279.26•
489.81
506.50
573.85•
716.30•
1,463.90•

145

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

144

70
52
52
91
82
29
52
34
50
21
37
44
40
35
45
45
35
69
70
35
36
33
37
31
50
50
23
88
39
62
41
36
59
80
26
35
51
65
49
50
43
36
36
46
59
31
54
52
62
63
21
20
39
42
30

3,006.77•
1,528.00•
1,532.36•
2,146.76•
268.50•
552.21 •
639.59•
923.54•
958.58•
756.66•
2,445.46•
1,407.43•
597.oo•
1,173.38•
2,211.31 *
1,056.75•
1,396.00•
746.25•
788.69•
346.50•
1,065.59•
651.50•
1,634.25•
1,213.29•
1,288.37•
5,751.05•
211.00
1,503.56•
1,470.00*
687.82•
807.06•
1,071.36•
486.50•
577 .o4•
1,841.26•
1,689.51 •
456.00
1,516.95•
655.00•
1,942.83•
410.50
1,634.65•
325.00•
734.38•
1,340.50•
1,245.55•
1,153.66•
882.29•
712.58•
1,730.59•
1,498.39•
1,112.76•
605.26•
543.50
1,277.53•

691
251
222
415
111
63
146
148
220
88
337
240
127
162
297
210
156
159
159
55
117
109
267
154
218
651
55
655
263
131
119
139
102
222
275
272
101
400
115
247
82.
302
62
79
227
130
176
135
130
288
229
174
100
107
186

69
41
59
73
87
25
52
35
54
28
40
48
44
38
52
46
38
67
64
33
32
34
36
29
58
59
26
90
39
44
50
45
47
84
34
36
37
65
39
55
38
46
41
35
66
32
46
50
73
48
32
40
37
32
31

No.

653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
682
683
684
685
686
687
688
689
690
691
692
693
694
695
696
697
698
699
700
701
702
703
704
705
706
707
708

Lod1e

1960 Membenhlp Partld1961
Partldpatlon
1961
1960
patlon
1961
Membenhlp Contributlona
%
%
Contrlbutlom Memben

Fontana ·······-···········
Jordan ···············-·······
Monte Vista ..............
Citrol ..........................
John D. Spreckels....
Livingston ................
La Habra ..................
Baldwin Park..........
Malta ..........................
Henry Knox ............
Ojai ............................
Kaweah ....................
Reseda ........................
Meridian ....................
San Gorgonio ..........
John P. Jarman ......
Greenleaf ..................
San Clemente ..........
Laguna Beach..........
Far West ..................
Los Cerritos ............
Modesto ....................
Willow Glen ............
Liberal Arts ............
Altadena ·······-·········
Canby Cross ............
Carmel ......................
Dos Palos ..................
Barstow ·······-···········
Redwood Empire ....
Trona ........................
San Marino ..............
Albany ......................
Vista ···········-~-·-·········
Oildale ......................
Pohona ......................
San Carlos ................
Indian Wells Valley
Travelers ..................
Palm Springs ..........
San Antonio ............
Meudell ....................
Crossroads ................
Saint Elmo ................
Wm. D. Stephens....
Bixby Knolls ............
Ponderosa ................
Santa Ynez Valley..
Rosemead ................
Westchester ..............
Orinda ......................
El Cerrito..................
Hunters Point Naval
Lake Tahoe ..............
Seafaring ..................

406
433
853
254
679
225
255
322
265
426
171
139
733
518
261
300
848
144
213
357
515
529
417
402
562
156
260
166
423
121
156
464
228
322
270
86
446
415
217
214
266
202
346
242
173
361
364
125
225
451
198
209
248
87
435

382.10
873.02•
1,771.18•
542.08•
1,527.50•
335.50
681.00•
795.43•
561.45•
1,513.50•
326. 70•
297.oo•
1,663.31 •
1,141.59•
537.lO•
710.50•
1,141.06
119.00
424.oo•
588.00
1,055.oo•
728.00
290.50
1,019.75•
1,318.50•
474.66•
181.50
330.oo•
911.50•
2.50
381.oo•
1,454.42•
555.oo•
855.50•
345.50
252.50•
1,042.00•
849.19•
590.50•
494.00
717.60•
444.25•
808.50•
1,013.35•
2,008.84•
948.67•
740.00•
337.oo•
597.63•
1,350.44•
474.50•
456.75•
716.30•
429.50•
820.00•

24
34
38
31
32
41
55
44
54
40
37
45
44
52
33
39
36
26
91
43
57
34
35
97
42
59
18
71
58
1
46
56
58
76
27
76
46
93
47
57
44
77
68
62
100
57
54
73
63
60
35
40
67
58
78

827.33•
918.42•
2,087.72•
469.05
1,697.19•
472.50•
1,289.70•
847.71•
699.99•
1,894.80•
305.67
284.50•
1,860.96•
1,104.34•
540.11 •
608.25•
1,516.59
162.00
424.00
810.75•
1,581.0o•
900.50
522.50
1,228.10•
1,931.99•
..............
573_50•
352.oo•
943.75•
295.oo•
439.oo•
2,247.73•
520.00•
461.26
569.50•
234.oo•
1,102.25•
934.46•
483.oo•
497.90•
633.13•
431.92•
952.73•
1,072.25•
1,511.51 •
1,154.87•
772.50•
345.50•
702.72•
1,161.59•
472.00•
537.oo•
621.00•
396.72•
895.38•

135
145
232
98
265
98
174
100
104
183
50
68
318
244
67
123
370
43
124
189
349
130
251
350
293

33
33
27
39
39
44
68
31
39
43
29
49
43
47
26
41
44
30
58
53
68
25
60
87
52

102
39
70
42
365
86
83
69
79
51
353
76
120
53
134
42
182
67
59
69
207
46
325
78
84
39
169
79
116
44
152
75
231
67
129
53
173 100
209
58
190
52
89
70
131
58
188
42
100
51
113
54
138
56
46
53
435 100

1961

No.

Lod&'e

1960 Membe nhlp Pardd 1961
patlon
1960

Memberahlp Contrlbatlon1

709 Loren zo ....................... 348
710 Anac apa .................... 234
711 Rim of the World .... 143
712 Los Altos .................• 208
713 Castr o Valle y .......... 273
714 Blue Lakes ................ 197
715 Magn olia Park ........ 232
716 Belm ont Shore ........ 343
717 Wayf arer ·············-··· 199
718 San Loren zo Valle y 90
719 Ester o ·········-··-·······- 137
720 Mine ral King ......•... 109
721 Home ................................. 425
722 Georg e E. Tutt. ........ 162
723 Acala nes .................... 180
724 San Ramo n Valle y.. 161
725 Saint John' s.............. 213
726 Yuca ipa .................... 174
97
727 Verdu go Hills ..........
728 Lakew ood ___ ,. .............. 227
729 Cente nnial ................ 141
730 Polar is ............................... 139
731 Two River s .............. 176
732 San Juan .................. 192
733 Golde n Empi re •....... 140
734 Kit Carso n ................ 181
735 Oasis of Mara........... 111
736 Lemo n Grov e .......... 355
737 Hillsb oroug h ............ 160
738 Arvin ........... . ........ _. __ .......... 113
739 La Cana da ................ 144
740 Oppo rtunit y .................. 190
741 Tyre ·····-··················· 191
742 Morn ingsid e Park .. 181
743 Oakw ood ...................... .. 96
744 San Leand ro ............ 161
745 Penin sula ·········-······· 132
746 Soque l ·············-········· 140
747 Claud e H. Morri son 113
748 Highl and ........................... 202
749 Merc ed ...................... 132
750 Moth er Colon y ........ 145
751 Hami lton ····--·-----·-·--- 134
752 Luthe r Burb ank ...... 178
753 Lawn dale ···-···· ······- 187
754 San Pablo ···-··- ··-· 106
755 Golde n Bowl ............ 155
756 Clayt on Valle y ........ 231
757 Chan nel ........................ 97
758 West Covin a ···-······· 172
759 El Ranch o ············-·· 190
760 Lakes ide···· ········· ·····- 94
761 Josia h W. Rolle r...... 170
762 Coast side ·········----·-- 94
763 Arabic·········-············· 139

_

815.50*
480.31•
389.00·
698.37•
553.00•
667.89*
816.oo•
720.45•
443.46•
187.oo•
338.50*
318.75*
901.60•
315.50•
262.50
312.00•
540.50*
519.oo•
466.62•
646.25•
496.73*
460.10*
400.00 •
645.25•
603.oo•
740.75•
148.00
935.09*
635.30*
299.50*
524.26*
59.97
435.59•
557.oo•
262.00•
357.62*
526.50*
318.50*
312.25•
353.00
340.65*
61.80
354.13*
392.95•
441.00·
121.50
453.87•
475.15•
232.50•
426.30*
252.75
459.99*
427.30*
171.00•
1,565.oo•

147

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

146

lHl

'10

Partidp atlon
Contrlb atlona Member• %

77
43
65
45
85
64
60
33
35
77
57
57
61
66
25
35
49
84
100
53
66
64
66
67
72
81
59
54
55
93
69
1
57
99
44
52
71
67
62
41
50
2
81
48
82
23
84
46
59
59
25
76
61
72
100

1,133.25*
514.42•
403.50•
956.25•
664.71 •
513.oo•
669.50•
1,133.25•
529.99•
187.oo•
499.75*
266.50•
1,078.72•
331.50•
543.oo•
391.00•
587.13•
415.oo•
448.26•
694.85•
806.07*
539.50•
633.93•
753.50*
759.00•
725.00•
229.00·
1,137.48•
692.30•
323.oo•
619.76*
901.33*
609.77•
583.75*
436.65•
352.70*
662.00•
320.25•
231.10*
567.00•
265.75•
703.44•
290.50•
407.50•
656.75*
264.50•
728.32*
582.60•
205.50•
640.08*
220.00
423.42*
331.36
196.oo•
1,900.25*

280 80
85 36
53
76
156 75
222 81
143 73
135 58
166 48
36
71
90 100
84 61
50 46
63
267
103 64
70 39
56 35
100 47
98 56
97 100
126 56
110 78
73
101
132 75
122 64
112 80
118 65
111 100
174 49
58
92
78 69
103 72
190 100
112 59
169 93
96 100
69 43
97 73
64
90
54
61
140 70
54 41
145 100
84 63
90 51
114 61
44 42
127 82
103 45
49 51
59
101
46 24
76 81
59 35
94 100
139 100

No.

1961

Lod&'e

Herit age .................... 118
Dana R. Welle r........ 121
Jame s H. Kew...- ..... 140
Wm. Rhod es Herve y 126
Zenit h ........................ 201
208
Palm dale
Lake Chab ot··:::::::::::: 107
Missi on Bay ............ 167
Aven al ...................... 56
Tejon .......................... 142
97
Waik iki ......................
San Diegu ito ............ 167
East Whitt ier ............ 149
Pinna cle .................... 55
La Mirad a ................ 127
72
Five Point s ..............
Rivie ra ...................... 106
Rollin g Hills ·······-··· 103
96
Silve rado ..................
Moja ve ...................... 70
Lelan d Stanf ord .... 106
Param ount ................ 86
···········-··· 81
Rio Linda
Westm inster ----------- 94
Sierra .................................. 81
98
Oak Plain s
97
Grana da Hil~· ·:::::::::
Gen. Henr y
H. Arnol d ···-··-· ·· 85
66
792 Millb rae ....................
793 Maya .........................• 65
794 Mt. Wilso n ................ 103
795 Amer ican River ...... 101
796 Golde n Valle y .......... 95
797 Tila Pass ···············-- 56
798 Ashla nd ............. ____. ___ .,_ 57
799 Bay Claire Vista..... 49
53
800 Rio Hond o ·······-·······
801 Koola u ·······-·······--··· 43
U.D. Yucca Valle y ·········- 75
U.D. The Gabil an ............ 48
U.D. More no Valle y ........ 42
······· 51
U.D. Came llia··· ····-····
U.D. Conej o Valle y .......... 46
U.D. Simi Valle y .............• 36
243,346
TOTA L
764
765
766
767
768
769
770
771
772
773
774
775
776
777
778
779
780
781
782
783
784
785
786
787
788
789
790
791

No. Calif. Resea rch .........• 89
So. Calif. Resea rch .......... 105
El Cami no Resea rch .......• 67
Centr al Calif. Resea rch .• 75
GRAN D TOTA L

1950 Membe nhlp Pardd 1960
1981
pat Ion

Membe nhlp Contrlb allom

243,682

397.50•
257.oo•
555.50•
753.50*
692.60*
574.00•
194.50•
380.00•
108.00•
287.02•
173.50•
149.00
536.33•
110.00•
459.24*
209.85•
1,090.80•
392.67•
33.60
111.50
247.oo•
143.oo•
302.50*
182.00•
104.26
247.30•
367.57•

%
70
79
82
100
62
100
75
79
52
91
51
16
53
100
100
72
100
41
18
32
77
86
100
92
32
63
89

1961

Partidp atlon
Con trlbatlon1 M:embera

387.50•
308.oo•
563.46•
683.75•
1,146.75•
618.00•
200.50
635.65•
114.oo•
316.50*
422.75•
39.00
495.60•
122.50•
551.18•
228.17•
1,468.10•
433.62•
370.00•
145.00*
337.oo•
154.00
420.75•
296.62*
434.50*
300.50•
358.64*

68
100
90
87
165
206
62
154
29
142
90
9
80
55
127
50
106
47
96
26
96
67
81
83
81
63
64

'*'

58
83
64
69
82
99
58
92
52
100
93
5
54
100
100
69
100
46
100
37
91
78
100
88
100
64
66

72
61
186.11*
65
43
288.36*
55 85
208.50*
71
73
379.38*
91
92
500.75*
81
85
378.oo•
78
46
197.50*
40 70
119.oo•
38 82
168.25*
30 57
119.50*
67
29
98.00•
24 32
187.98*
......................
222.50•
13 27
..........................
50
86.oo•
21
.........................
51 100
156.25*
·'"·
-·····--92.00•
46 100
.......................
36 100
72.00•
......................
$645,200.75 109,679 45
Avera ge Contr ibutio n-$5. 88
2
2
10.00
........................
52
50
46
243.01 *
212.40*
0
0
.......................
··--·--······
0
0
·--------····
----·-···Over- all Avera ge Contr ibutio n-$5. 88
$645,453. 76 109,733 45
158.oo•
225.00•
236.50*
191.90•
234.50•
9.00
94.00·
33.25
71.50*
74.oo•
66.00·

80
62
72
57
68
4
74
31
61
70
91

14:8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Board of Control herewit h submits its annual report covering
the most pertinen t data on the activities of our Boards of Relief and
their Employ ment Bureaus.
We are pleased to report that the work being carried on by our
Executi ve Secretaries and employees continues to reflect creditab ly
upon our beloved Fratern ity. These devoted brethre n and co~workers
continu e to go far and away beyond tlhe call of duty in carrying out
their work. The Board of Control appreciates, as we are certain this
Grand Lodge does, their continu ed dedication and devotion to their
duties. Their richest compen sation can only be their knowledge of the
service they are renderin g to our brethre n and our fellow men.
There are in our Jurisdiction nineteen Boards of Relief, five of
which operate Employ ment Bureaus. Our newest Board in Orange
County has developed into a thriving and dynami c part of our great
service effort for Califor nia Masons .
The Board of Control is charged by Grand Lodge with the super~
vision of our Boards of Relief. Uniform standar ds have been estab~
lished for their operations, reportin g and auditing, by which we are
able to keep a watchfu l eye on all of the operatio ns for whi-ch we are
responsible.
The Board of Control holds at least three meetings each year at
which times we meet with our Board of Relief Secreta ries in order that
we may have a more persona l contact with them and they with each
other, and that we may all have a better underst anding of our respec~
tive problems and responsibilities.
After having analyze d the audited reports which have been submitt ed
by our Boards of Relief. we ask your brief indulgence in the following
conden sed statistics covering their operations during the Masoni c Year
ended June 30, 1961 :
Advanc ed for Relief.................................... $35,343.69
Funeral s conducted...................................... 1,032
Total calls made.......................................... 30,052
Ca11s on the sick.......................................... 7,994
Investigations conducted............................ 2,974
Relief calls made.......................................... 8,880
Miscellaneous calls made............................ 10,204

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

149

It goes without saying that these activities require untiring dedica~
tion and devotion to Masonr y. Our brethre n w'ho carry on this work
deserve the undying gratitud e of the entire Craft. Their compen sations
are modest, except for the knowledge in their hearts of the service they
are renderin g to Masonr y and to their fell ow men.
BLOOD BANKS

Many of our Boards of Relief operate Masoni c Blood Banks, and
those which do not usually have some other arrange ment for providin g
blood for Masons or their depend ents when required. The following
figures indicate the extent of our blood donatio n activities during the
past year:
Units of blood donated ........................................ 3,876
Units of blood wit1hdrawn .................................... 3,l 97
You will note that a substan tial reserve of blood has been built up
during the Year. The actual cost, in savings to our Masoni c family, by
this service during the Year just dosed, was $78,935.
EMPLOY MENT BUREAU S

As stated above, we have Employ ment Bureaus within five of our
Boards of Relief. Their purpose, of course, is to assist our Masoni c
family to obtain gainful employment. Althoug h there has been increasing
competition in this field from public placement agencies, Unions and
others, we still feel that even the limited accomplishments are worth
our efforts in .the relief of distress to even a comparatively fow of our
Masoni c family. The following figures briefly tell of the operatio ns of
our Employ ment Bureau s during the past Masoni c Year:
Registe red for employment ..................................6,290
Positions actually secured.................................... 862
Of course, our Employ ment Bureaus operate without any charge,
either to employer or applican t. Had fees been charged for our services
on the basis of rates fixed for commercial agencies, such employment
opportu nities would have cost our Masoni c family $80,062.30. In other
words, the Fratern ity has actually saved over $80,000.00 by using these
facilities of ours.
APPROP RIATION S

For many years it has been a custom of this Grand Lodge to assist
financially our Employ ment Bureaus, when deemed, and to the extent
deemed expedient. The Board of Control has carefull y analyze d the
request s of the various Boards for appropr iations in tlhis regard and
makes the following recommendations aggrega ting $11,800.00 for this
Masoni c Year:

151

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

East Bay ........................................................ $2,500.00
Long Beach .................................................. 2,600.00
Los Angeles .................................................. 1,000.00
San Diego ...................................................... 3,200.00
San Francisco ................................................ 2,500.00
We have referred the matter of these appropri ations to the Chair~
man of the Finance Committee as required by Section 265 of the Cali~
fornia Masonic Code.

from their officers and associates. We are indeed deeply grateful for
all of their assistanc e and helpfulness.
Respectf ully submitted,

REIMBUR SEMENTS TO MASONIC BOARDS OF RELIEF

EXPIRAT ION OF PRESENT TERM OF OFFICE OF
BOARD OF CONTRO L MEMBER S:

150

It has long been the policy of this Grand Lodge that no worthy
brother sojournin g in our Jurisdiction, or his immediate family, shall
suffer for f:lhe necessities of life, or have other than a decent burial upon
their demise, regardles s of the ability or willingness of the brother's
own Lodge to reimburse us. Our Grand Lodge undertak es to reimburse
any Board of Relief for any such unrecoverable advances . During the
Masonic Year recently closed our Boards of Relief advance d more than
$35,000.00 to sojourne rs and their depende nts. All such advances were
carefully scrutinized by one of our Executive Secretari es and efforts were
made to obtain reimbursement. lt is gratifyin g to report that out of
$35,343.69 so advance d during the year, only $513.05 was not repaid, in
accordan ce with the following requests to Grand Lodge for reimburse~
ment:
1

REIMBUR SEMENT TO THE SAN FRANCISC O BOARD OF RELIEF

The San Francisc o Board of Relief has requeste d $488.05 for a case
which has continued over many years. This involves a very worthy
brother from Scotland , and his wife, for whom the Grand Lodge of
Scotland makes some provision, but not sufficient for their essential
needs. This is a most deserving case.
REIMBUR SEMENT TO THE SAN DIEGO BOARD OF RELIEF

The San Diego Board of Relief has requeste d reimbursement in the
amount of $25.00 which represen ts relief extended to a brother from a
mid~western state. We have carefully reviewed the correspo ndence
with the brother's Lodge and the St. Louis Board of Relief and are
satisfied that the San Diego Secretar y displaye d good judgmen t and
Masonic Charity in this matter and is to be commended for his handling
of the case.
The Board of Control has recommended that the Finance Com~
mittee approve these reimbursements totaling $513.05.
The Board of Control has received the most helpful cooperat ion
during this past year from the Most Worship ful Grand Master, the
new Grand Secretar y and the Assistan t Grand Secretar y, as well as

REGINAL D M. MILLS
ARTHUR DvoRIN
IRVING MAGNES
JOHN M. SWAN
NORMAN E. HALE

Reginald M. Mills .............................................. 1961
Norman E. Hale ................................................ 1961
Irving Magnes .................................................... 1962
John M. Swan .................................................... 1962
Arthur Dvorin ................................................ ............................... ............. 1963
Referred to Committ ee on Finance.

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES, CALIFORNIA

three spotlights in permanently designed enclosures located at the back
of the balcony. ( 3) Make recommendations for the installation of impro~~d stage ~i~~ting fr~m the face of the balcony wall. ( 4) Design
additional facilities for ticket booths in the main lobby. ( 5) Make an
exhaustive re-study of the basic acoustics and sound system in the
main auditorium.

MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE CORPORATION
This is the Seventh Annual Report issued by the Board of Trustees
of the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
The Board of Trustees met following the close of the 1960 Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge, as is required by the By-Laws, for
the purpose of organization. The election of Brother Guy B. Mize,
Deputy Grand Master: Brother Ira W. Coburn, Senior Grand Warden: and Brother Elmer W. Heald, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the Board, and on motion duly made, seconded and
carried, they were elected members of the Board of Trustees. Appointed
to the Board by the Grand Master were Brother Ralph W. Head and
Brother Samuel I. Jacobs. The Board elected the following officers: Ira
W. Coburn, President: Frank Harwell, Jr., Vice-President: Paul A.
Pflueger, Treasurer, and Edward H. Siems, Secretary.
As a part of this report, we are submitting the reports of Lybrand,
Ross Brothers & Montgomery, Certified Public Accountants, and
Brother Alvin A. Horwege, Building Manager.
The Board of Trustees has, as a continuing concern, the increase
of rentals from the auditorium and the convention area. These facilities
have now been in public use for a period in excess of three years. Experience suggests that certain changes (some brought to our attention
by users of the auditorium) would make an already attractive facility
more acceptable for certain types of performances. To this end a detailed study ·has been made.
In considering the problem, the Board recognized that the auditorium was built primarily for Grand Lodge purposes, and that nothing
should be done to impair this use. It was felt that in the event that any
alterations or additions were made, the appearance and architectural
effect of the auditorium would remain the same as originally designed.
It was also the consensus that if the stage were raised, it should be
done by the ·Creation of a portable stage-capable of easy installation
and removal so that the present level would be maintained for Grand
Lodge purposes.
After many conferences and sub-committee meetings with recognized experts in the various fields, namely: structural design: acoustics:
sound system: lighting, the Board selected Brother Harold M. Engle
as the structural engineer charged with doing the following: ( 1 ) Design
a stage 3'7,Vi" above the auditorium floor-which stage may be easily
removed and stored - the design to include provision for portable backdrop and wings. ( 2) Make recommendations for the installation of

153

The design of the stage proposed by Brother Engle was accepted,
and f?llowing the submission of bids, the William Horstmeyer Construction Company was awarded the work. This part of the project
should be completed by October 15, 1%1.
Upon the recommendation of Brother Engle, the Board selected
Dr. Vern Knudsen of UCLA (one of the world's recognized authorities on acoustics) to make a complete re-survey of the acoustics and
sound system of the auditorium, and to submit recommendations to
the ~oard. Action will be taken as soon as Dr. Knudsen's report is
received, and action will also be taken on Brother Engle's recommendations for improved lighting.
The operation of the garage for the past year has shown an increase in revenue, but with greater use of the auditorium (as a result
of the changes outlined above), the number of stalls rented should materially increase.
A study of the curtailment of expenses and procedures was madeas a result of which, fees paid to the Certified Public Accountants were
appreciably decreased. This was brought about by having the office
staff assume cettain accounting work heretofore done by outside accountants. fo addition, maintenance costs of the elevator system were
reduced.
There is one part of the Accountant's report which the Board wishes
to bring to your attention: "The General Contractor of the Temple filed
a suit against the Temple on August 4, 1958. The architect, general
counsel, and the trustees contend that this action is without merit. The
Temple has flied an answer and crosscomplaint. Additional related
issues also have been raised-which matters may be resolved by compromise, or settled by trial. The interests of the Temple will be vigorously prosecuted by its counsel."
The Board feels that all applications for the use of our facilities
should be carefully screened so that our building will not be physically
damaged by unreliable lessees. In order, however, to avoid any unfavorable publicity in regard to its action in this connection, the Board has
adopted the policy that all bookings will be confirmed and agreed upon
by the President, Secretary. and the Building Manager.
The Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand Master, requested

155

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

that the Temple be opened on Saturda ys and Sunday s in order to accommo date the large number of visting brethre n (and the general public) who come into San Francis co on weeken ds only. His wish has been
carried out, and as a result. many visitors have seen the Temple who
otherwi se would not have been able to do so.
The building has been physica lly well maintai ned, and the cost of
operatio n held to a minimum. For this we have Brother Alvin A. Horwege, Building Manage r, and his staff to thank.

Notes payable to Banks,
$1,313,790.00
September 25, 1961 ..............
members of the
and
The Board of Trustee s thanks the officers
and help in
interest
ed
continu
their
various constitu ent Lodges for
The Grand
'
Lodge.'
Roll
Merit
a
Lodge
"Every
realizing our goal:
the Inspecas
well
as
rs,
Lecture
Grand
nt
Assista
six
his
and
r
Lecture
the genbefore
tors, are to be commended for their support in keeping
project.
hile
eral membership this most worthw
Finally, to all of you who have contribu ted time, experience and
counsel to the solution of the many problems which have arisen during
the past year--o ur sincere thanks.
Respectfully submitted,
IRA W. COBURN, President

154

THE OPEN BooK
ing of the Open Book, so many contripublish
the
to
Subseq uent
it has been decided to publish a supthat
received
been
have
butions
plemen t as a part of the original. Gifts are still being received at a
gratifyi ng rate. Memor ial gifts will be include d in the supplement just
as they were in the original.
As of Septem ber 22, 1961. 510 Lodges have achieved Merit Roll
status- an increase of 53 Lodges over last year. Also, since our last
annual report, 19 more Inspecto rial District s have become "HON OR
DISTR ICTS.'' We extend our hearty congrat ulations to the following:
HONOR DISTRICT
218
219
224
226
314
342
354
367
385
412
506
508
519
526
536
545
548
608
614

Officers and Trustees:
FRANK HARWELL, JR., Vice-President
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Secretary
Guy B. MIZE, Deputy Grand Master
ELMER W. HEALD, Junior Grand Warden
ARTHUR M. WARREN, Trustee
KEITH W. ScHLAEGEL, Trustee
JoHN W. DAVEY, Trustee
REXFORD L. HALL, Trustee
RALPH H. HEAD, Trustee
SAMUEL I. JACOBS, Trustee

loDGES
INSPECTOR
692: 789
613:
20:
Frank P. Lemen
732: 795
64;
40;
A. Boyd Collier
95: 174
80:
65:
56:
Penrose
Alfred A.
19: 68; 757
Clarenc e A. Wood
191; 356: 556: 751
George T. Rowse
370; 470: 536
216;
Carlton H. Rothblum
480: 568: 697
440:
225;
Roy H. Lenthall
321: 709: 798
243:
218:
Will
Edward C.
21; 443: 598
Frederi ck Bolte
236: 312: 488: 681
William S. Thomp son
192: 242: 444: 642
Ray H. Paine
291: 379: 633: 663
214;
Frank E. Stevens
600; 729: 755
273;
Evans
Q.
George
467; 520: 677: 780
Elvin C. Drake
405; 563; 625
William Bottorff
542: 715: 721
406;
Reginal d Bunce
369; 373; 637
307:
Theodo re B. Pach
717: 776
670;
323;
Lustig
M.
Richard
315; 357; 377; 778
Ted R. Siems

REPO RT OF BUILD ING MANA GER
To the Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple:
Brethren:
In present ing this, my third annual report as Manage r of the California Masoni c Memor ial Temple , may I call your attentio n to a comparison of the operatin g experience during the year 1959-60 and the
year 1960-61.
During the 1959-60 year we had 58 days of occupan cy by ten conventions plus 37 days of occupan cy by concert s and shows using the
auditorium. During the 1960-61 year there were 32 days of occupan cy
by four conventions plus 45 days of use of the auditorium for concert s
and shows.
As pointed out in the report submitted last year, the sharp drop in
the use of the exhibit space is account ed for by the addition al space
for similar purposes which has become available in the hotels. The
encouraging increase in auditorium occupan cy is a start toward building up this alternat ive source of revenue.

RECAPITULATION OP BANK l..oAN
Origina l Bank Borrowing .......... $2,303,790.00
Retired through June 30, 1961.... 810,000.00
$1,493.790.00
Balance owed July 1. 1961.. ........
180,000.00
Paymen t made August 11, 1961..

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Board of Truste es is keenly alert to the necessity of placing
occuthe auditorium in a better position to encour age this alterna tive
those
from
d
receive
tions
sugges
pancy. They have been investigating
tion
connec
in
desired
s
facilitie
the
and
familiar with the concert field
the
of
parts
ng
followi
the
result
the
As
ncy.
occupa
with that type of
lished:
change s noted in the Presid ent's report have been accomp
The carpet has been removed from the stage area and has been
the
replace d with a hardwo od floor. This floor will be the base for
later.
ed
provid
be
will
portab le stage which
The carpets have been cleaned and made into rugs with the edges
unicabound. When these rugs are in place during the Annua l Comm
s
change
the
before
as
ance
tion, the stage area will have the same appear
were introdu ced.
In line with the prelim inary studies made by Langevin Compa ny
to the
and Dr. Knudsen, analys is ·has been completed with reference
that
result
the
with
ium
acoustics and sound equipm ent in the auditor
This
d.
installe
and
sed
purcha
additio nal sound equipm ent has been
in
new equipment consists of four additional column speake rs now
to
place
in
is
system
delay
time
a
n.
additio
In
wall.
place on the rear
to the
handle the combination of column speake rs as a supplement
sound
ed
improv
origina l overhe ad speake rs. The result is a greatly
treatm ent.
The committee rooms and the halls in the rear of the auditorium
have been painted and t'he same treatm ent has been extend ed to various
during
parts of the dining room. Additi onal paintin g will be completed
the coming year.
The carpets in the Grand Lodge offices have been cleaned and painting has been completed in the hall and reception lobby.
on
Attent ion is called to the installation of four directo ry boards
used
be
will
the Califor nia Street face of the building. Two of these
will
for posters applyin g to shows using the auditorium. The other two
month.
t
curren
the
of
es
activiti
the
serve as directo ry boards indicating
ed
During the year the garage has continu ed to produc e increas
in
than
more
.34
$5,441
being
year
this
d
receive
t
amoun
revenue, the
the previous year.
Our guest registe r reflects the attenda nce of 4,000 visitors, which
includes those from forty states and fifteen foreign countries.
Respectfully submitted,

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON DIST RIBU TION

156

ALVIN A. HoRWE GE

Building Manager

157

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Distrib ution, to which has been referred the anTreasnual message of the Grand Master and the reports of the Grand
ng
followi
the
s
submit
er,
Lectur
urer, Grand Secreta ry, and Grand
report:
GRAND MASTE R'S MESSA GE

ge
We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master 's Messa
ed:
indicat
ittees
Comm
the
to
erred
ref
be
herein listed
1. To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
Decisions 1, 2 and 3.
2. To the Comm ittees on Jurispr udence and on Policy and
Genera l Purpos es:
Recommendations I. II, III. IV, V, VII and VIII.
3. To the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Genera l
Purpos es, on Financ e, and to the Truste es of the Mason ic
Homes :
Recommendation VI.
4. To the Committees on Policy and Genera l Purpos es and on
Commercialism:
!he question of approv al of the revised regulations govern 10g the activities of organiz ations subjec t to the jurisdiction
of the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge of Califo rnia and
their distribution to the constit uent Lodges, as set forth in
Exhibi t 1°3 of the Grand Master 's Messa ge.
5. To the Committees on Financ e and on Ritual:
The recomm endatio n of the Grand Maste r that the visits of
an Assitsa nt Grand Lecturer or Grand Lecturer to Hawai i
be continued.
The Grand Master 's Messa ge reflects the fruitfulness of "The
to the
Year of the Master Mason " and his great love and devotion
ed.
dispers
r
rsoeve
craft, which has endear ed him to all Mason s whithe
GRAND TREASU RER'S REPOR T

We recommend the referra l of this report in its entiret y to
Committee on Financ e.

the

GRAND SECRET ARY'S REPOR T

s of the Grand Secreta ry's Report
'v:1e. recommend thatd tothetheportion
Committees indicat ed:

herem listed be referre
1. Unfinished busine ss:
The items of unfinished business which have been referred

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to Special Committees appointed by the Grand Master require no further reference.
2. T\he portion of the report relative to changes of meeting
place be referred to the Committee on By-Laws.
3. The portion of the report relating to the endorsement of
charters of consolidated Lodges be ref erred to the Com•
mittee on Charters.

IN GRAND LODGE

4. The portion of the report relating to the elmination of the
per capita tax for the Lodges instituted subsequent to April
1, 1961, and prior to June 30, 1961, be ref erred to the Com•
mittee on Finance.

GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT
We receommend the report in its entirety be ref erred to the Committee on Finance.
We highly commend the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary
for the efficient manner in which they completed their first year in office. Their reports continue to reflect outstanding service to the craft.
We also congratulate the Grand Secretary's staff for their loyal and
devoted service rendered on all occasions.
Respectfully submitted,
ADOLPH H. FRANZEN
Loms L. CuNNINGHAM
HAROLD S. MORRISON
Adopted.
At 4:00 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. Tuesday.

-

159

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1961
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 a.m., the Grand Master presicLing. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The mdnutes
of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday, September 25, were
read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on By..-Laws has considered 127 amendments to
By-Laws and 25 resolutions for removal of place of meeting, as follows:
AMENDMENTS TO UNIFORM CoDE OF BY-LAws
(California Masonic Code, Sections 365, 366) :
UNIFORM CODE OF BY-LAWS adopted in toto (California
Masonic Code, Sections 339, 340. 16 Lodges):
Yount No. 12: Harwaiian No. 21; Texas No. 46; Woodbridge No.
131; Evening Star No. 186; East Gate No. 290: le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371; Imperial No. 390: El Sereno No. 588: Glassell Park No. 605:
The Gabilan U.D.; Moreno Valley U.D.; Camellia U.D.; Simi Valley
U.D.: Conejo Valley U.D.; Scepter U.D.
FEES (California Masonic Code, Section 354. 32 Lodges) :
For degrees ( 20 Lodges):
Increasing ( 18 Lodges) :
Alameda No. 167, to $102.00: Anaheim No. 207, to $105.00: Friendship No. 210, to $115.00: San Benito No. 211, to $65.00: Hills Ferry
No. 236, to $75.00; Callayomi No. 282, to $75.00; Liberty No. 299, to
$125.00: Norwalk No. 315, to $115.00: Fullerton No. 339, to $100.00;
Imperial No. 390, to $125.00; Arlington No. 414, to $100.00; Elysian
No. 418, to $150.00; America No. 475, to $115.00: Azure No. 533, to
$100.00: Provident No. 609, to $100.00: Hemet No. 615, to $90.00;
Ingleside No. 630, to $90.00; Anacapa No. 710, to $100.00.
Decreasing (2 Lodges): Maui No. 472, to $50.00; Three Pillars
No. 613, to $100.00.
For affiliation ( 12 Lodges):
Fixing (2 Lodges): Callayomi No. 282, at $5.00; Liberty No. 299,
at $10.00.
Decreasing ( 3 Lodges) : Westchester No. 703, to $5.00: El Rancho
No. 759, to $10.00; Riviera No. 780, to $10.00.
Rescinding ( 7 Lodges): Hills Ferry No. 236, San Miguel No. 285;
Provident No. 609; Big Bear No. 617: Citro} No. 656; Magnolia Park
No. 715: Koolau No. 801,

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DUES (California Masonic Code, Section 356. 51 Lodges) :
Increasing ( 51 Lodges):
Alameda No. 167, to $116.00; Anaheim No. 207, to $18.00: San
Benito No. 211. to $15.00: North Butte No. 230, to $18.00; Surprise
Valley No. 235, to $15.00: Reading No. 254, to $18.00: Durant No.
268, to $18.00; Callayomi No. 282, to $18.00: Liberty No. 299. to $18 .00:
Redlands No. 300, to $18.00: Norwalk No. 315, to $15.00: Emmanuel
No. 318, to $15.00: Carquinez No. 337, to $15.00; Fullerton No. 339, to
$15.00: Las Palmas No. 366, to $20.00; Unity No. 368, to $18.00; Imperial No. 390, to $18.00; Rising Light No. 397, to $15.00: Charter
Rock No. 410, to $18.00: Elysian No. 418, to $20.00; York No. 423, to
$18.00; Hammonton No. 433, to $16.00; Libertas No. 466, to $18.00;
America No. 475, to $18.00; Mt. Davidson No. 481, to $21.00; Albert
Pike No. 484, to $18.00: Chowchilla No. 485, to $16.00; Seaside No.
504, to $18.00: Euclid No. 519, to $18.00: Azure No. 5,33, to $15.00;
Henry Morse Stephens No. 541, to $16.00: North Hollywood No. 542,
to $20.00; James Madison No. 572, to $15.00: Provident No. 609, to
$18.00: Hemet No. 615, to $18.00: Fairview No. 629, to $18.00; Ingleside No. 630, to $20.00; Riverside No. 635, to $18.00; Greenleaf No.
670, to $15.00: Laguna Beach No. 672, to $18.00; Westchester No.
703, to $18.00; Magnolia Park No. 715, to $18.00; Mineral King No.
720, to $20.00; San Ramon Valley No. 724, to $18.00; Saint John's No.
725, to $18.00; Two Rivers No. 731. to $16.00: La Canada No. 739, to
$24.00; Soquel No. 746, to $15.00; Claude H. Morrison No. 747, to
$18.00; Clayton Valley No. 756, to $18.00; La Mirada No. 778, to
$18.00; El Camino Research, to $10.00.
CHARITY COMMITTEE (California Masonic Code, Section
360):
Increase in authority (2 Lodges): Apollo No. 396, to $100.00;
Woodstock No. 491, to $50.00.
STATED MEETING (California Masonic Code, Section 343, 26
Lodges):
Changing time ( 4 Lodges): Orange Grove No. 293: Lynwood No.
600: Westchester No. 703: Yucca Valley U.D.
Changing date ( 12 Lodges): Lompoc No. 262: Burbank No. 406:
Blackmer No. 442; Mt. Diablo No. 448: Utopia No. 537: Menorah No.
623: Benevolence No. 631; Anacapa No. 710: Heritage No .764: William Rhodes Hervey No. 767; Mt. Wilson No. 794: Southern California
Research.
Provision for legal holidays (10 Lodges): Rose's Bar No. 89;
Anchor No. 273: Ramona No. 457: Manchester No. 585: Lynwood No.
600; Glassell Park No. 605: Hunters Point Naval No. 706: Golden
Bowl No. 755; Mt. Wilson No. 794: Ashland No. 798.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

161

RESOLUTIONS FOR REMOVAL OF PLACE OF MEETING

(California Masonic Code, Sections 372, 373. 25 Lodges): Los
Angeles No. 42: Pentalpha No. 202; Lompoc No. 262; Sisson No. 310:
Oxnard No. 341: Palestine No. 351: Las Palmas No. 366: Henry S.
Orme No. 458; Mount Olive No. 506; La Jolla No. 518: Loyalty No.
529; Manchester No. 585; Menorah No. 623; Henry Knox No. 662: San
Gorgonio No. 668; Orinda No. 704: Anacapa No. 710: Blue Lakes No.
714: Lemon Grove No. 736: San Pablo No. 754; Arabic No. 763:
Heritage No. 764: William Rhodes Hervey No. 767: Koolau No. 801.
All of the foregoing were found in order, with these exceptions:
UNIFORM CODE OF BY-LAWS:
Certificate not signed by Secretary: Simi Valley Lodge, U.D.
STATED MEETING
Change of Date: Incorrect reference to legal holidays:
Southern California Research Lodge.
Legal Holidays (only) : Non-compliance with C.M.C. Section 365
(Article XIII, Section 1, of By-Laws) :
Ashland Lodge No. 798.
REMOVAL OF MEETING PLACE:
Non-compliance with C.M.C. Section 372:
Notice at meeting next preceding vote:
Sission Lodge No. 310
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458
Moupt Olive Lodge No. 506
Vote at meeting next succeeding notice:
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42
Orinda Lodge No. 704
Arabic Lodge No. 763
Two-thirds vote required:
Henry S. Orme ·Lodge No. 458
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
Your Committee again suggests that the incoming Master and the
Secretary of each Lodge review the By-Laws of the Lodge at the beginning of each Masonic year: and especially that whenever any amendment of the By-Laws or removal of meeting place is contemplated, each
familiarize himself in advance with the applicable sections of the California Masonic Code.
Stated Meetings which fall on holidays have been a source of
trouble-particularly to those Lodges meeting on first Mondays. These
Lodges are reminded that New Year's Day, Independence Day, and
Labo~ Day will each, at times, fall on a first Monday; that when New
Year s Day and Independence Day fall on Sunday, the next day

163

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(Monday) is a holiday: and that the Monday folloV:ing ~boda Day
is a holiday also whenever Admission Day falls on ei.ther un Y .or
M d
Each Lodge should foresee these events. If it does not wish
to C:e:iy~n these holidays, or some of them, it should proceed. now to
amend its By-Laws accordingly. A suggested form of resolution may
be obtained from the Grand Secretary.
.
.
Removal of the meeting place of a Lodge ~equires c~mpChadnce T~h
Section 372 or Section 373 of the Calif?rma Mas?mc o e.
e
procedure for adoption of such resolution is substantially the same as
that for amendment of the By...Laws.
To the very great majority of the Lodges, who have c~refully followed the Code, we express our appreciation, and the gratitude of the
office of the Grand Secretary.
We move approval by Grand Lodge of the foregoing amendme?ts
and resolutions with exceptions above enumerated, and the adoption
of this report.
Respectfully submitted,

have not been answered. We regret to report that out of the seven
hundred working Lodges, we have received to date reports from only
11 7 Lodges, containing a full report of their outstanding events during
the past ten years: 134 reports from Lodges are but partially in response
to the request and must be returned for amplifkation: Hi Lodges have
not responded at all. The committee well realizes that everyone is not
historically minded, nor are many of us able to see much of what some
day may become historically important in most of the events in which
we take part. For these reasons it is forgivable that so many Lodges
have not responded to assist in the compilation of unusual contemporary
events. Unusual events are those which do not recur very often, whether
they be big or little events. Some unusual events which should be recorded in the archives are: cornerstone layings: dedication of Lodges;
institution of Lodges, including the first officers: dedication of schools
or public buildings: unusual and/or interesting local Lodge eventsperhaps in connection with Public Schools Week or Constitution
Month Observance; visits to the local Lodge by important persons,
such as the Grand Master or others. The committee would like the
Lodge Historian to advise us of any event he deems unusual whether
it seems important to him or not. From such material submitted, the
committee will make its choice for the archives. As an example of
what is important and which in this instance has been overlooked, we
cite the following: Several years ago, the Grand Master of the Philippines was visiting the United States. While in San Francisco, he informed some friends that he would like to visit a California Lodge.
Among those present was a former Inspector of the Philippines who
said he would artange the visit. Accordingly, at the forthcoming stated
meeting of a Bay Area Lodge, the Grand Master of the Philippines
presented himself and was received with grand honors and seated in
the East. At the close of a brief business session he was invited to
address the Lodge which he obligingly did, giving a most informative
and inspirational address. This was the only Lodge in California that
was so honored and should certainly be classified as an unusual event
and one which ought to be recorded, especially since this Grand Master
is today one of the leaders in the Philippine Gove.mment.

162

VIRL BENNEHOFF
RoBERT iC. PEYTON
SANFORD o}. ROBERTSON, }R.
EUGENE C. QUICK
COLTON B. 0AVENEY
ALDEN
FULKERSON
BERNARD H. RAAB

J.

Adopted.

REPORT OF IDSTORY COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
your standing committee on Masonic History reports as follow~:
Before beginning the Report, we would like to exp~es~ our smcr.:
and genuine appreciation to the Grand Master for appointing us to i
committee and for the opportunity to serve. It has been a rewar mg
and enlightening experience.
At the beginning of the year, the Grand Master ~equ~sted that the
'ttee begin the collection and assembling of historical facts ~nd
~~:n~~ from among the respective Lodges, this being the 10th year ~mce
entennial Accordingly, we suggested that the Lodges a~pomt a
'£:,d~e Histori~n who would have the responsibility of reporti~g su.ch
facts pertaining to the local Lodge as could be deem~~ of sufficient interest to merit perpetuating in the archives. The or~gmal request was
followed by several other reminders. It is our desire to express ou~
deep appreciation to those who responded with promptness and mu~
excellent material. We also apologize for the fact that, ~ue to c:ircumstances beyond our control. letters requesting further information

J.

Along with outstanding events, the committee is interested in human
interest stories-stories about rank and flle members that can be substantiated and which of themselves are of interest to others: such as a
Brother who confers a degree on his son and also on his grandson: or
on three sons in one evening, as has occurred: or where some Brother
has gone out of his way, over and beyond his obligations to assist a
Brother; or where a Brother, in his daily practice of Masonry carries
on a continuing campaign to aid and assist the distressed and needy,
wherever he may find them, without remuneration from the Lodge or
even reporting to the Lodge his many acts of kindness and charity. The

164

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

instances that can be reported upon are legion and they occur almost
everywhere. It can be said that there is not a Lodge in California, large
or small. but has had one or more unusual happenings during the past
ten years. History is nothing more than the recorded acts of people. It
is these acts which we recite here, together with many others, that make
history.
On May 6, 1961, it was our privilege to participate in the celebration
of the centennial of Lassen Lodge No. 149, at Susanville. California.
This centennial was most unusual because our Grand Master opened
t,he Grand Lodge there in special communication in order to receive
the Grand Masters of Nevada and Oregon. Grand Master Stanley D.
Sundeen of Nevada and Grand Master Julius M. Swanson of Oregon
were invited by our Grand Master to be present in commemoration of
the part citizens of Nevada and Oregon played in the founding of
Susanville and Lassen County. Each Grand Master made appropriate
remarks. In the afternoon our Grand Master officiated at the dedication of a bronze plaque, set in native granite in front of Roop' s Fort,
an historical monument in Susanville. Tihe plaque was dedicated in
memory of Brothers Isaac N. Roop. founder of Susanville. and John
S. Ward, the first Master of Lassen Lodge. Brother Roop was one of
the great, hardy pioneer Masons of California, as was Brother Ward.
Also, Brother Ward was Senior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge
of California in 1869 but passed on before he could serve as Grand
Master. During the ceremony of dedication of the plaque, Brother M.
R. Arnold, a grandson of Isaac Roop and member of Lassen Lodge.
presented to the Lodge his grandfather's Masonic apron, which was
suitably framed behind glass and now ihangs on the walls of Lassen
Lodge. Lassen Lodge called upon the History Committee for assistance
in preparing their centennial. and Brother 0. J. Wohlgemuth responded
with an impressive and well-received history.
On Saturday, May 13, 1961, the Grand Master opened the Grand
Lodge of California in special communication, in the Masonic Temple,
12th and JStreets in Sacramento for the purpose of re-laying the cornerstone of the State Capitol Building, on tihe occasion of the one hundredth
anniversary of the original cornerstone by the Grand Lodge. the Worshipful N. Green Curtis, Grand Master on May 15, 1861. A full account of the original ceremonies and the banquet which followed may
be found on pages 231-239 of the Proceedings for 1861. The chief
architect of the building was Brother Reuben Clark, a member of
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44 at the time. As in 1861, after the opening
of the Grand Lodge, Grand Master Breslauer led a public procession, in
regalia, from the Masonic Temple to jjhe northeast corner of the capitol
building. It is estimated that over 1000 Masons in white aprons took
part in the procession, including the Shrine Band of Ben Ali Temple of
Sacramento. Acting as an escort, was the Sacramento Commandery

No. 2, Knights Templar; Master Masons; Blue Lodge Officers: York
and Scottish Rite Officers: Masters of Lodges: City, County and State
Officials and Grand Lodge Officers. Edmund G. Brown, Governor of
California, not a member of the fraternity, met the procession at the
Capitol building and extended his greetings and remarks. The cornerstone ceremony was performed by the Most Worshipful Grand Master,
Alfred F. Breslauer, assisted by the Grand Officers. Grand Lodge was
opened at 1 :30 P.M. and the ceremony commenced at 2:30 P.M. At
7:30 P.M. the Brethren met in tihe banquet room of the Elk's Club for
the commemorative banquet where the Most Worshipful Leslie E.
Wood, Past Grand Master, presided as Master of Ceremonies.
Several members of this committee appeared at various times
throughout the year as speakers before Lodges or in conjunction witih
other speakers at District meetings. One member of the committee
lectured on Masonic History at five of the seven education conferences
sponsored by the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education. Two
other members continued to lecture and show the colored slides on old
pioneer Lodge Halls in California, titled, "SOME CAME BY LAND
AND SOME CAME BY SEA," which has been given before many
Lodges and districts during the past three years. This lecture and showing is still available. Applications should be made to the Chairman of
~he History Committee. There is no charge except a nominal one for
expense~ of the lecturer when he is put to expense in coming to your
community.

165

1

1

1

In conclusion, it is recommended that this committee continue its
efforts to collec.t historical material of events transpiring during the past
ten years: that lecture material be prepared for use of the Lodges and
that such members of the committee as are able and willing continue
to present historical lectures to the Lodges when requested. As, in the
collec~ion of historical material, it may be necessary, as in the past, for
committee members to engage personally in assisting the Lodges, considerable expense may be involved. We therefore request that the sum
of $3000.00 be appropriated for the use of this committee for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHITSELL
0. J. WOHLGEMUTH
FRANK EVERETT
KENNETH H. DOWNS
HORACE H. BLAIR
CUTHERT MENGE
KENNETH B. CONKLIN

Referred to Committee on Finance.

166

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

167

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COMMERCIALISM

STATEMENT BY LEON 0. WHITSELL:

Now I would like to add a personal word to end th~s, my la~t repr·
as Chairman of the History Committee. It is with mixed feehn~s t at
I ex ress my desire to be relieved of the responsibility of t~e Chairma.nshi:of the History Committee, and I would like to ~ke ~h~jP 0 fun;~~
to express my appreciation to the members of this .ran 1 3Je ~~s of
many courtesies extended to me dU1'ing thef ahpprHo~imate
~~ee
service to this Grand Lodge as Ohairman o t e istory ommi
·
While it is not possible to name all those who have served ~th me
during these years, I wish to make special mention of the following:

f.

Arthur M. Ellis
Mark Sawrie
Wilson E. Newlon
George P. Morgan
David Tulloch
Roscoe L. Clark
Charles E. Hass
Charles R. Ingram
John R. Bond
Samuel Steelman
Richard E. Giesen
W. C. Arbuckle
W. A. Chalfant
Miles McK. Anderson
Guy Giffen
Arthur H. Triggs
Wesley A. Simard
Carl W. Brainard

In the last few years Kenneth Downs and Frank Everett. have given
unstintingly of their time and talents in lecturing to the various Lodges
in Southern California.
To O. J. Wohlgemuth, who was the author of "SOME CAME BY
LAND AND SOME CAME BY SEA" and who has spent many hours
in lecturing and helping all over Northern California and who has be~n
my right hand on the Committee for many years, my deepest appreoation.
It has been a privilege and pleasure to serve this Grand Lodge as
Chairman of the History Committee for these approximately 30 years.
I thank you for it.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Commercialism is indeed pleased to advise that
reported violations of our law, rules and regulations continue to lessen
in scope, number and seriousness.
Most noticeably it has been found that the constituent Lodges and
the appendant organizations are asking to secure clearance before acting. Because of this, a number of proposals which could have resulted
in violations were dropped when the applicable sections of our code
were made known.

In a few instances, constituent groups of appendant organizations
have not proceeded on the above basis. Such situations, wherever
possible, were called to the attention of the responsible Grand Officers
of the appendant organizations who proved most cooperative by taking
prompt and positive corrective action.
There have been a few instances where it has been necessary to caution individual members of the craft, who, either through lack of knowledge or inadvertance have committed violations. In all such situations
coming to our attention, through the cooperation of the Inspectors and
Masters of the Lodge, corrections were effected by "whispering good
counsel."
Additionally, attempts at sales solicitation, originating in other
Grand Jurisdictions, have been made, on the basis of Masonry, principally to appendant organizations. Again, when such actvities were
called to appendant Grand Officer's attention, prompt corrective action
was taken within the group.
As Shown above, the Grand appendant organizations are most
anxious to cooperate by "cleaning their own house" when questionable
matters are called to their attention, which is as it should be.
Our greatest problem has been with privately published so-called
Masonic magazines originating in other Grand Jurisdictions. Their
salesmen usually use the long distance telephone and high pressure sales
tactics in their endeavor to sell advertising. In each instance coming
to our attention, such action is taken as is felt right and proper to protect our name and symbols. Through the efforts of our Grand 1M aster
and with the cooperation of the Grand Master of Oregon, we have been
given assurance that one such magazine, published in Portland, will
cease solicitation of advertising in this Grand Jurisdiction.
Last year in our report, we referred to correspondence with the
Grand Master of New York in regard to an author, member of a New
York Lodge, whose activities we felt should be brought to a halt. As a
matter of interest, under date of March 23, this year, the Grand Master

168

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

oug hly inve stig ated by our Law Enwro te, "Th is mat ter has bee n thor
ord ered that the bro ther be severely
forcement Committee and I hav e
ontinue the publication und.er inrepr ima nde d and furt her that he disc
ings a?d talk s that are ~ot .~n acvest igat ion and all publications, writ
regulations of our fraternity.
cord anc e with the tenets, rules and
of the Gra nd Lodge of Illinois
Dur ing the Ann ual Com mun icat ion
8th last yea r, the Gra nd Mas ter reheld in Chi cag o Oct obe r 7th and
ly lax and a grea t deal of trou ble
por ted "Ou r cod e has been extreme
s bec ause the wor ds Mas onr y and
has been cau sed by various publication
r
It is my opinion, sup port ed by othe
Mas onic have been loosely used.
d
alle
so-c
r
ove
trol
con
e
more effectiv
Gra nd Officers that we can exercise
n of this cod e." Wh at was pr~­
ptio
ado
the
by
ions
Mas onic publi~at
it
do not know, but from the repo rt
pos ed by the code refe rred to, we
wer e to be take n.
wou ld 1appear that corrective step s
it can be seen, that othe r Gra nd
Fro m tlhe above refe rred to actions,
trouble ~ecause of the ~ctvities of
Jurisdictions which hav e bee n having
s, are movmg alon g the lme to ~or­
thes e so-called Mas onic publication
developed over the yea rs. In ti~e
rect the man y abuses which hav e
ch
ve us of some of the problems whi
thes e corrective moves sho uld relie
hav e plag ued us in the past .
from the app end ant grou ps
We hav e had a num ber of inquiries
be sho wn in rosters. The applicable
rela tive to wha t information may
a
rred to in our ans wer s so as to set
sections of our ·code hav e been refe
are
e
cod
the requirements of our
unif orm stan dard and to insu re that
maintained.
to use a tr~te expr~s~ion, Y?Ur com
Eve~hing considered, it is felt,ious
esnec
is.
e
la?c
vigi
ed
tmu
ly con
mittee can "rep ort pro gres s." Obv
, and to prev ent it aga m from
ism
cial
mer
com
of
e
ogr
the
tain
sary to con
rear ing its ugly hea d in our midst.
its sincere than ks and app red aYou r committee wis hes to exp ress
Inspectors and othe r m~bers ?f the
tion to the Gra nd Lod ge Officers,
ed upon. We especially wis h to
craf t for thei r cooperation whe n call
,
ster Bre slau er for ·his kindly counsel
than k Mo st Wo rshi pfu l Gra nd Ma
an
n
bee
bee n most helpful. It has
adv ice and assistance, whi ch has
and serv ed und er him.
ked
wor
hon or and a pleasure to hav e
Res pec tful ly submitted,
VIN CEN T P. McM uRD o
WIL LAR D A. BRA ASC H
JACK L. BLA INE
HAR VEY HAR KNE SS
ALB ERT R. BEN NISO N

Ref erre d to Committee on Finance

.

To the

169

MM ITT EE
RE PO RT OF INV ES TM EN T CO
A. M. of California:
Mo st Wo rshi pful Gra nd Lodge F. 8

es its eleventh yea r of activity,
The Inve stm ent Committee conclud twelve months ending June 30,
the
and here with rend ers its repo rt for
amo unt of historical bac kgr oun d
ain
cert
a
s
1961. Eac h yea r's repo rt give
be help ful to thos e atte ndin g Gra nd
and basic information, .which sho uld
Lodge for the flrst time
form was ado pted by Gra nd
The P.rudent Ma n Rule in modified
Pru ion. For the Con stitu ent Lodges a
Lod ge at its 1950 Communicat
1.
195
in
den t Ma n Rul e was ado pted
Lod ge F. & A. M. of Cal ifor nia
The Inve stm ent Committee of Gra nd
inistering the investable funds of
was formed for the purp ose of adm
es of Cal ifor nia, and the Mas onic
Gra nd Lodge, the Mas onic Hom
Committee does not supervise the
Hom es End owm ent Fun d. The
but Gra nd Lodge makes the serv investments of Con stitu ent Lodges,
le to the Lodges. Ma ny Lodges are
ices of its investment adv isor availab
evidenced by the fact that a tota l of
now making use of this service, as
rdin g the service. Und er date of
251 Lodges hav e mad e inqu iry rega ice repo rted as follows:
July 21, 1961, Mo ody 's Inve stor s Serv
g for certain consolidations that
"As of a curr ent count, and allowin
e
tota l of 251 Lodges that hav e mad
hav e take n place, we now hav e a
e
ther
es
anc
inst
of
r, in a number
inqu iry relative to service. Howeve
we
that
so
iry,
inqu
al
afte r the initi
has been little or no follow-through
red acti ve and those con side red
side
con
ges
Lod
e
hav e sep arat ed thos
170 Lodges as being active.
of
l
inactive. We wou ld classify a tota
ar valu e of the portfolios und er
"A recent calculation of the total doll , of course, this rang es from
70,000, and
review comes to a figure of $6,4ly
small ones.
fair
to
os
foli
port
ble
siza
ly
fair
mon ths is interesting. The re hav e
"A count of activity in the pas t six
reviews; 21 telephone con sult atio ns,
bee n some 82 requ ests for portfolio 289 writ ten communications bac k
e
and four office conferences, plus som
and fort h."
that the Lodges are making full
The Inve stm ent Committee hopes
use of this valu able servi<:e.
posed of the Gra nd Tre asu rer,
The . Inve stm ent Committee is com
Cha irm an of the Fina nce Com mitthe Ass ista nt Gra nd Tre asu rer, the
es Boa rd of Tru stee s or a Tru stee
tee, t'he Pres iden t of the Mas onic Hom
and the Cha irm an of the Mas onic
of that Boa rd desi gna ted by him,
by
a member of that Boa rd desi gna ted
~omes End owm ent Boa rd ofor the
are:
ee
mitt
Com
ent
stm
Inve
him. The pres ent members

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.G.M .........................................Grand Treasurer
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, P.M ...................................... Asst. Grand Treasurer
FRANK HARWELL, JR., P.G.M ................... Chairma.n, Fina.nee Committee
E. V. STEWART, JR., P.G.M .....................Ptesident, Board of Trustees
Masonic Homes
JOHN M. GORDON, P.M .........................Chairman , Endowment Board
The Grand Secretary, Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., acts as Secretary
of the Committee.
By Ordinance , under Section 246 ( formerly 86) with respect to
investment of Grand Lodge funds, and Section 403 (formerly 152.1 )
respecting investments by Constitue nt Lodges, the following provisions
prevailed as of June 30, 1961:
GROUP I. At least 20% of the funds available for investment must
be in:
A) Cash and/or bank accounts.
B) Obligations of the United States.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions.
D) Such other securities as are legal investments for savings
banks in California or Hawaii (as amended 1959).
GROUP II. Up to 20% maybe invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an Exchange registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange , except that this listing requirement shall not
include railroad equipment trust issues ( 1955).
B) Preferred stocks. which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange , except that full listing and registration of preferred stock shall
not be required whenever the common stock of the corporation issuing such preferred stock is fully listed and registered
on such an exchange, provided that such preferred stock is
traded on such an exchange ( 1956).
GROUP III. Upto60% maybeinv estedin:
A) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered on
an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange , except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance stocks.
B) Shares of Investmen t Trusts.
C) Shares and/or certifkate s of insured Federal or State Savings and Loan Associations ( 1957 and 1959). The amount

invested in any one Association shall not exceed the amount
covered by insurance.
(THIS AMEND MENT APPLIES ONLY TO CONSTITUE NT LODGES AND DOES NOT APPLY TO
THE INVEST MENT OF GRAND LODGE FUNDS. )
With respect to the authority to invest in Groups II and III, the
Ordinance s read as follows: "No such investments, however, shall be
made which at the time of purchase will result in the total market value
of the securities referred to in this section exceeding twenty per cent
(or sixty per cent) of the total market value of all the cash. bank accounts and securities held," - the controlling point being that there
cannot be more than 20% or 60% invested in Groups II and III. at the
time of purchase.
SHOULD A LODGE ELECT TO INVEST ITS FUNDS
UNDER THE PROVIS IONS OF GROUP II OR III HEREOF . IT
SHALL CONFER AND COUNSE L AS TO ANY SUCH PROPOSED OR CONTEM PLATED INVEST MENTS WITH THE
PROFES SIONAL INVEST MENT ADVISO R USED BY GRAND
LODGE, WHOSE FEES WILL BE PAID BY GRAND LODGE.
At the 1959 Communication certain amendments were passed with
respect to the percentag es which could be invested in Groups I and III.
Group I was reduced to 20% and Group III was increased to 60%. In
this connection, it is very important to call attention to the following,
which is contained in the Reports of the Committe e on Jurisprudence
and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
"Your Co~mittee on Jurisprudence respectfully calls attention to
the fact that this proposed amendment is permissive only and is not a
directive. Great care should be exercised in making investments under
the authority granted by this proposed amendme nt.''
"Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends the
adoption of Resolution D-7 but with this admonition to the Lodges:
"A) The authority granted is permissive only and is not suggested
as an investment guide under present economic conditions.
"B) That in making investments in Group III the Lodge be most
circumspect in taking advantage of this additional authority.
"C) And that they strictly comply with the provisions of the last
paragraph of Section 403-3B of our ordinances, consult with and heed
the advice of the professional investment advisors used by Grand Lodge,
and made available to the Constitue nt Lodges without charge to the
individual Lodge."
The above comments are included in the reports of the Committees
as they appear on page 282 of the 1959 Proceedings.
Since its formation the Investment Committee has met regularly

170

171

172

every three months. Between quarterly meetings the business of the
Committee is handled by correspondence or telephone.
As stated, we have just completed eleven years of operation. The
following is a summary of the consolidated market value of securities
owned, plus investable cash, together with a record of dollar income
on these investments, beginning with November 30, 1950, and for each
succeeding fiscal year, through June 30, 1961, including the percentage
income on the market value of each year.
CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUE OF SECURITIES AND INVESTABLE CASH•
(BY GROUPS AND TOTALS) AND DOLLAR INCOME (In Parentheses)
Income
Percentaae
TOTALS
GROUP
Ill
GROUP 11
GROUP I
Return+
Amount
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
1.97
Datea
$
6,124,471
5.9
364,003
$
1.7
$ 102,140
92.4
$5,658,329
11/80/50
($i20,598)
($22,()56)
($4,262)
($94,280)
2.58
5,972,968
17.2
i,025,725
6.5
389,000
76.3
4,558,243
8/18/51
($i53,939)
($63,203)
($16,652)
($74,084)
3.09
6,648,854
27.9
l,856,i21
8.7
574,096
63.4
4,218,637
8/4/52
($205,272)
($98,614)
($20,832)
($85,827)
3.21
7,381,305
29.9
2,208,658
6.5
479,527
63.6
4,693,120
7/81/58
($236,590)
($112,815)
($19,394)
($102,381)
3.28
8,401,255
39.0
3,278,814
9.2
771,147
51.8
4,351,294
7/31/54
($275,296)
($152,076)
($27,963)
($95,258)
8.05
10,129,644
87.8
3,820,092
6.7
678,610
55.5
5,680,942
7/81/55
($809,345)
($158,880)
($24,894)
($126,621)
3.84
11,113,108
31.5
3,505,096
14.4
1,596,552
54.1
6,011,460
7/81/56
($371,407)
($150,697)
($68,588)
($157,122)
3.92
11,826,608
87.0
4,192,291
17.0
1,928,881
46.0
5,205,986
6/80/57••
($440,806)
($i97,673)
($89,399)
($158,284)
8.97
12,529,625
88.9
4,878,839
17.9
2,258,789
48.l
5,897,547
6/80/58
($496,948)
($225,840)
($96,946)
($174,662)
3.75
13,789,767
88.2
5,270,217
18.5
1,854,685
48.8
6,664,915
6/80/59
($517,425)
($186,854)
($87,858)
($242,713)
4.02
13,466,458tt
28.5
8,887,628
17.7
2,879,050
58.8
7,2.49,780
6/30/60
($541,838)
($142,288)
($117,081)
($282,574)
3.72
16,28i,892
40.5
6,589,011
18.1
2,951,098
41.4
6,741,788
6/80/61
($605,814)
($221,222)
($137,967)
($246,625)
•Savings bank deposits with interest earned thereon are included in Group I.
+on market value.
..Fiscal year changed to June 30.
ttThe amount of $1,130,000 was withdrawn from the Maeonic Homes General Fund and the
amount of $85,000 from the Flint Fund, to pay for the new hospital at Decoto (total $1,215,000
withdrawn).

During the past year profits of $520,949 were taken, and a total of
$2,521,607 has been taken since the inauguration of the Prudent Man
rule in 1950. Profits always remain a part of principal and are never included in income totals. With respect to rlie Endowment Fund, neither
profits nor capital are ever withdrawn from the Fund.
Endowment Fund contributions made through the Lodges amounted
to $645,453 for the year ending June 30. 1961. Other gifts and bequests
for the Masonic Homes amounted to $948,672. The Masonic Homes
Board of Trustees determines how these gifts and bequests shall be
allocated - these allocations are made in accordance with specific
bequests, or in the absence of such, at the direction of the Trustees. The
Endowment Fund contributions remain in that Fund, and only the income is used.
May we also call attention to the fact that the total portfolio has increased since November, 1950, from $6,124,471 to $16,281,892, or

173

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

165.85%. and at the same time the income has increased from $120,598
to $605,814, or 402.34%. As mentioned above, $1,215,000 was withdrawn for the new Decato hospital in the year ending June 30, 1960.
Whereas .the t.otal investments as of June 30, 1960, amounted to $13,466,458, m this year they have risen to $16,281,891, showing an increase of $2,815,434, or 20.91 %. for the past year.
The following is the consolidated investment portfolio of Grand
Lo~ge, with the market values as of June 30, 1961, divided into the
v~rious ~roups, and showing the percentage of each group, together
with the mcome return for each group on the market value:
GRAND LODGE F. &: A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
CONSOLIDATED PORTFOLIO - JUNE 30, 1961
(Market Value• 0 )
GROUP I
Market

Cash ·---·-·---------····...................$ 1'3~4e650
Bonds:
'
'
~ S .. qoverrunent ........................ 2,728,188
~mc1pals ....................................
102,000
~b1fioad ~qu_ipment ....................
725,000
c Utilities ............................ 1,802 050
Industrials ....................................
9;900
Total Bonds ............................. $ 5,367 138
TOTAL GROUP I ................... :$ 6,741:788

Ineome

Per Cent

8.4

$ 41,240*
93,510
3,095
21,315
87,142
313
~205,375

33.0
41.4

246,625

GROUP II
Bonds:
Municipals .......- ...........................$
2,000
Railroad .........................................
40,136
Railroad Equipment ...................:
50,000
Public Utility ................................
105,000
~dustI:ials-convertible ............
327,500
manc1al ........................................
6,840
Total Bonds ---------·-·---·-·---··-------~$--5-31"',-47-6

Preferred Stocks:
Railroad ···············-················· ...$
90,000
Public Utility ..........................::.:..
885,045
Industrials ...................................... 1,438,822
Total Preferreds ......................$ 2,413 867
TOTAL GROUP II ..................$ 2,951:093

Return on
Market

3.7%

80
2,076
1,750
5,000
13,682
274
$ 22,862

$

$ 4,500
43,345
67,260
~115,105

18.1

137,967

4.7%

3.4%
3.7%

GROUP III
Common Stocks:
~i1fioad ·:·:··--··----·----------···--·----·------$ 363,000
b c Utility ................................
889 958
II?-dustrials .................................... 3,027:883
F inance .......................................... 2,308 170
TOTAL GROUP III----------------$ 6,589'.ou

40.5

$ 19,280
34,769
99,273
67,900
$221,222

GRAND TOTAL ......................$16,281,892

100.0

$605,814

8%.
•••At
above achedulet the railroad equipment trust and municipal ; ues are figured at
less tha:u;: ~:U~k$1&.~.~i::1 value of the portfolio would be approximately $3 2,8 77
~~ J!'~

98

par

174

Hom es Endo wmen t
We have three principal accounts, the Maso nic
al smaller funds
sever
the
Fund , the Maso nic Hom es Gene ral Fund , plus
of Calif ornia .
M.
A.
&
F.
e
Lodg
of the Maso nic Homes. and the Gran d
reducing our
by
there
fund,
total
one
as
The recor d is kept by Mood y's
ds are kept separ ate
cost very materially. How ever, Gran d Lodge recor
t Comm ittee. As a
as to each fund, as are the recor ds of the Inves tmen
portf olios of the
the
of
matte r of interest, we list here the mark et value
mark et prices:
at
yield
and
e
incom
individual funds, toget her with the
Total Value •
$12,129,060
·····-···
Maso nic Home s Endo wmen t Fund ··········
2,803,962
......
..........
..........
Fund
ral
Gene
s
Home
nic
Maso
352,358
..
..........
..........
..........
Fund
Flint
Maso nic Home s
38,918
...
Fund.
arship
Maso nic Home s Brigh am Schol
33,825
Maso nic Home s Resid ents' Depo sits Fund. .......
75,846
..........
.........
Fund.
h
enbac
Luck
s
Home
Maso nic
12,172
·-····
........
..........
.
Fund
Maso nic Home s Wadl eigh
18,581
Maso nic Home s Perin e Fund. ...............................
8,950
Maso nic Home s Stude nt Loan Fund ................
9
752,02
...
..........
ornia
Calif
of
M.
A.
Gran d Lodg e F. &

175

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Incom e•
$452,243
100,378
14,598
1,374
1,523
3,088
421
633
424
31,126

Yield •
3.73%
3.58
4.14
3.53
4.50
4.07
3.46
3.41
4.74
4.14

si~le ~o en~merate the many impo rtant and conflicting essen

this year we are
A y~ar ago v:e were 28.5% invested in Grou p III:
ver. that the
howe
ed,
40.5%_ invest~d m this group . You may be assur
e appro ach
rvativ
conse
most
the
Committe~ _will alway s be mindful of
action. As
and
y
polic
t
tmen
inves
its
to
to all deci~ions made relati ng
· G
.
18101
I
have 41.4% invested in Grou p • . ;o m
roup
this fact, we
proof of 40
501. . G
d
II
alf is in
· I~ . m roup III. of which appro xima tely one-h
• an
.fi nanc e and utility stocks.
can be quite different
f We again mention that our course of action
so as not to inftuence
said
is
This
tor.
inves
rom t_h at of the individual
you with respe ct to your perso nal actions.
Gran d Secre tary
Our thank s to the Gran d Secre tary, the Assis tant
ittee for thei;
Comm
t
tmen
anhd lmhy thank s to the members of the Investimes.
all
at
ration
coope
ous
w o e earte d and gener
t Committee Resp ectfu lly submitted on behal f of the Inves tmen

ta, lnveata ble cub
ble cash. Interes t on 11&.vlllllB accoun
figured
(• aa of June 80, 1961, Includi ng lnvesta
railroa d equipm ent and munici pals are
ments,
govern
table
this
In
8%.
at
figured
is
only,
and the :vfeld on the Inthese figures are as of June 80, 1961, which
d.)
Involve
an
at preeen t market values. All of :year,
factors
many
the
depend ing upon
vestme nts would va.r:v during the

rt, and is, there The entire portfolio is listed in the Audi tor's Repo
safekeeping for
in
fore not inclu ded herein. The securities are held
Angl o Natio nal
ker
Croc
the
Gran d Lodg e by the Trus t Depa rtmen t of
isco.
Franc
San
e,
Offic
t
Bank, at its One Mont gome ry Stree
ded, as follows:
At the 1960 Communication Section 403 was amen
to be fully listed and
"The provi sions of this section requiring securities
ities and Exch ange
regis tered on an excha nge, regis tered with the Secur
not apply to the
shall
ange,
Commission as a Natio nal Securities Exch
Lodges located
to
ned
confi
is
tion
excep
Hono lulu Stock Exch ange. This
is not as yet
ange
Exch
Stock
lulu
Hono
(The
in the State of Hawa ii."
and Exities
Secur
a Natio nal Securities Exch ange, as defined by the
chang e Commission.)
tmen t Committee
We have had excellent atten danc e at our Inves
d Mast er, Alfre d
Gran
Our
past.
the
in
meetings, as has been the case
year.
F. Bresl auer, atten ded two meetings in this past fiscal
e and endea vors
The Committee continues on a conservative cours
nly possible.
huma
is
as
to keep in as close touch with economic conditions
statem ent
this
and
ing,
chang
As state d last year, conditions are ever
en abou t
writt
much
so
is
e
Ther
year.
can certa inly be repea ted this
nt time that it hardl y
economic condi tions and world affairs at the prese
seems neces sary to add anyth ing furth er here.
into consi deraBoth domestic and intern ation al factors must be taken
d be imposwoul
It
le.
flexib
very
be
tion. Fortu natel y. we can and must

tials which

arise m rapid succession.

JOHN M. GORD ON
FRAN K HARW ELL, JR.
STEW ART, JR.
E.

v.

ARTH UR M. WAR REN
PAUL A. PFLU EGER . Chairman

Refer red to Committee on Finan ce.

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
It is with pleasure and satisfaction that the Committee on Lodge
Financing submits a report of its activities during the past year. The
pleasure being in having the privilege of serving the Gra~d Lodge a~d
the Lodges and Temple Associations operating Masonic Temples m
the California jurisdiction: the satisfaction lies in seeing the continued
improvement each year in the construction and operati~n of Temple
properties. Each year indicates improved management m Lodge and
Temple affairs, and the Committee on Lodge Financing . is proud to
have a part in the continuing successful programs. Durmg t~e pa~t
year fewer Lodges and Temple Association~ have shown~ l~ss m their
operations and these losses are. in most instances, negligible. More
and more Lodges indicate by their financial statements that they ~re
operating in the black and are establishing cash r~serves and depre~1a­
tion accounts which will be so important to them in the future. During
the past year more than 235 Temple Associatio~s and Lodges have su~­
mitted financial statements as required by Section 200 of the Masonic
Code. These statements indicate total assets of Lodge properties of
approximately $25,000,000.00, an increase of about four and one~half
million dollars over the previous year.
At the time that this report was compiled, on August 10, 1961, ap~
proximately 60 Lodges and Temple Associations had su~mitted ap~
plications to tlhe Committee for its consent and approval in the purchase of property, the construction, repairs and other financial matters
related to the operation of their facilities. The Committee granted
consent to approximately 40 requests to transfer funds from Lodges to
Temple Associations to be used in various matters concerning the
Temple operations: 8 requests to start construction of new Masonic
Temples: 11 requests for expenditure of funds for capital improvements:
12 requests to form nonprofit Temple Associations and 21 requests to
purchase property for the eventual construction of their own Masonic
home. This, together with other miscellaneous items. required the ac~
tion of the Committee on more than 80 transactions.
The volume of correspondence has been exceedingly heavy and on
very many occasions the members of the Committee have met with ~e
brethren of various Lodges and discussed with them the problems being
confronted in their Temple construction and financial programs. The
results of these meetings have been most successful and in each instance 1all difficulties and problems have been resolved. It is the in~
tention of the Committee to always meet with and advise various Lodges
and Temple Associations relative to tlheir building and financial mat~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

177

ters, and to particularly point out the benefit to Lodges in incorporating
as nonprofit corporations to carry on their Temple affairs.
It has been most rewarding to the Committee to be a part of such
activtity and to enjoy the complete willingness and cooperation of each
Lodge and Temple Association in an endeavor to satisfactorily pursue
their programs and desires. The Committee, during the past year, has
worked together in unity and harmony, each member thereof contributing his efforts readily and completely. During the past year the
Committee has received many letters of commendation and sincere appreciation from Lodges expressing tlheir thanks to the Committee for
its help and assistance. These letters are gratefully acknowledged. In
a few instances criticism has been directed at the Committee; however,
those who were most critical either by neglect or lack of courage failed
to make themselves known. Nevertheless the criticism is also acknowledged because when properly given it tends to strengthen not only the
proceedings.
The yearly activities of the Committee are set forth in detail in the
following pages of diis report and will be included in the published
Committee but the fraternity.
WALNUT PARK MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Consent granted to expend not to exceed $3000.00 to install cooling system in Walnut Park Masonic Temple.
SANTA CRUZ LODGE No. 38
Consent granted to transfer $400.00 from Lodge funds to Temple
Association to b~ applied on the oustanding debt of the Association.
SmsuN 'LoDGE No. 55
Consent granted to application to transfer $9000.00 from Lodge
funds to the Temple Association for the purpose of purchasing property
adjacent to exitsing Temple in Suisun.
AMADOR LODGE No. 65
Application approved to purchase additional property adjacent to
present site for parking area and for future Temple expansion.
LEXINGTON LoDGE No. 104
Consent granted to transfer $3000.00 from Lodge funds to Temple
Association and also for the expenditure of $7500.00 for property adjacent to present Temple site.
LAFAYETTE LoDGE No. 126
Application approved to transfer $7500.00 from Lodge funds to
Temple Association for the purpose of Temple construction in Sebastopol. Consent granted to expend $46,000.00 for repairs and additional
construction on Temple in Sebastopol; also, to borrow $15,000.00, if
needed, to assist in defraying costs of such work.

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

179

CURTIS LoDGE No. 140

OAKDALE LoDGE No. 275

Consent granted to purchase property and building (church) in
Cloverdale to be converted into Masonic Temple at approximate cost
of $6500.00; also, consent to borrow $2000.00 to be applied to purchase.

Consent granted to start construction and enclose new Masonic
Temple in Oakdale. Furtfuer consent required to complete construction.
MouNT SHASTA LoooE No. 281
Consent granted to form Anderson Masonic Temple Association
and to transfer $1000.00 from Lodge funds to the Association.

ABELL LODGE No. 146

Consent granted to expend $61,000.00. plus costs, to purchase additional property in Ukiah for Temple facilities; such purchase to be
made on the basis of $26,000.00 as down payment with balance of
$35,000.00 to be covered by loan from Savings Bank of Mendocino
County and Bank of America.
BucKEYE LoDGE No. 195

Consent granted to proceed witfu borrowing of sufficient funds to
increase facilities for Post Office purposes in Winters: said loan to be
for $15,000.00 from Bank of America at 6% per annum.
WILMINGTON LoDGE No. 198

Application approved to transfer $2000.00 from Lodge general
funds to Temple Association for the purpose of modernizing present
Temple in total sum of $4575.00.
SAN BUENAVENTURA LoDGE No. 214
POINSETTIA LoDGE No. 633

•Consent granted to start construction of elevator in Temple building in Ventura in the sum of approximately $21,650.00.
MosAic LoDGE No. 218

Consent granted to transfer bonds and funds from the Lodge to
the Temple Association: also, to borrow not to exceed $25,000.00 on a
10-year basis at 6% in order to complete the construction of the new
Masonic Temple: the consent 'herein subject to the receipt of a proper
application for the transfer of funds and the proposed loan.
DowNEY LoDGE No. 220

Consent granted to application to purchase property for new Temple
site in Downey.
Consent granted to purchase additional property adjacent to
Downey Lodge for $38,000.00; also, to transfer $35,000.00 from Lodge
general funds to the Square and Compass Building Association.
DURANT LoDGE No. 268

Consent granted to purchase not to exceed 500 shares of Berkeley
Masonic Temple Association stock as it is available and sufficient funds
are on hand for the purchase.

SouTH WEST LODGE No. 283

Consent granted to application to purchase Temple site in National
City for $68,000.00.
LIBERTY LoDGE No. 299

Consent granted to expenditure of not to exceed $2000.00 to complete construction work on Liberty Masonic Temple.
ONTARIO LoDGE No. 301

Application approved to increase previous approval of $30,000.00
to $50,000.00 to enclose Temple being constructed in Ontario.
SANTA MONICA LoDGE No. 307

Consent granted to expend $10,950.00 in repairing and modernizing
the Temple in Santa Monica; also, to borrow up to $10,000.00, if needed,
from the Commandery upon the terms in the application to assist in
said repairing and modernizing.
MONROVIA LoooE No. 308

Consent granted to Building Corporation to issue and exchange with
Lodge regular memberships equal to value of the shares held by the
Lodge in the old corporation: also, to transfer assets of old corporation
to the new Masonic Building Corporation.
Consent granted to the transfer of $8000.00 from Lodge funds to
t~e. Temple Asso~iation to be used for architect's fees and other prehmmary expense m connection with new Temple construction.
TEMESCAL LoDGE No. 314
Consent granted to enter into lease witih Corona Security Corporation for Lodge purposes.
FRUITVALE LoDGE No. 336

Approval granted to purchase stock in Masonic Temple Association of Fruitvale as it is available and not to exceed $750.00 in calendar
year.
Consent to purchase outstanding Temple Association stock in
amount of $300.00 during the period ending November 30, 1961.
CARQUINEZ LoDGE No. 337
Consen·t granted to form Carquinez Masonic Temple Association
and .to transfer $1000.00 from Lodge general funds to the Temple
Association.

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

OXNA RD LoDG E No. 341

Application appr oved to start construction of new
Tem ple in Oxn ard
at estim ated contr act price of $125,000.00; also,
to borro w $55,000.00
in orde r to complete the Tem ple.
SEQU OIA LoDG E No. 349

Application appr oved to purc hase certain stock
of the Maso nic Tem ple Association of Berkeley at a price not to exce
ed $5.00 per share and
not more than $750.00 expe nditu re during perio
d expiring Nove mber
30, 1961.
BuEN A PARK LoDG E No. 357

Cons ent gran ted to start construction of new
Tem ple in Buen a
Park : also, to trans fer $9000.00 from Lodge gene
ral fund s to the Tem ple
Association.
LAS PALM AS LoDG E No. 366

Appr oval gran ted to application relative to revis
ed renta l schedule.
Committee cons ent gran ted to trans fer $389
0.00 from Lodge funds to
the Building Association to pay gift tax on land
dona tion to the Lodge.
YoRK LoDG E No. 423
Cons ent gran ted autho rizin g the trans fer of
$2000.00 from Lodg e
gene ral funds for the purp ose of air condition
ing installation in Wal nut
Park Maso nic Tem ple.
ALPH A Looo E No. 431

Cons ent gran ted to purc hase share s of Richmond
Tem ple Asso~iation from heirs of dece ased members not to
exce ed $2000.00 durm g
perio d of cons ent (end ing November, 1961 )
at a price not to exce ed
$10.00 per share ; also, any balan ce of funds
( $2000.00) at the end of
such period may be used to purc hase said stock
from living members
at said price.
ScHO FIELD LoDG E No. 443

Cons ent gran ted to form Schofield Maso nic Tem
ple Association and
to trans fer $15,000.00 from Lodg e general
fund s to newl y formed
Association.
CARP INTE RIA LoDG E No. 444

Appr oval given to application to purc hase prop
erty for $16,000.00
for purp ose of cons truct ing new Maso nic Tem
ple.
LA PUEN TE LoDG E No. 446
Cons ent gran ted to purc hase Tem ple site in La
Puen te for $8500.00.
Mou NT Oso LoDG E No. 460

Cons ent gran ted to trans fer $9000.00 from Lodg
e funds to Temp~e
Association for the purp ose of completing banq
uet room, et cetera, m
the Tem ple in Trac y.

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

181

YoRB A LIND A LoDG E No. 469

Appr oved application to purc hase prop erty for
$8500.00 for furth er
Maso nic Tem ple cons truct ion in Yorb a Linda.

MT. DAVI DSON LODG E No. 481

Cons ent gran ted to renew al of prese nt lease
unde r same conditions
and renta l of $225.00 per mont h for a term of
5 years expiring Janu ary
31, 1966.
SEAS IDE Looo E No. 504

Cons ent gran ted Lodg e to form Seas ide Maso
nic Tem ple Asso ciation and to trans fer $250.00 from Lodge gene
ral funds to newl y formed
Tem ple Association.
SUNN YVAL E LODG E No. 511

Cons ent gran ted to st·art construction on new
Maso nic Tem ple in
Sunn yvale at estim ated cost of $70,000.00 to
enclose, and $160.000 to
complete.
LA }OLL A LoDG E No. 518

Cons ent gran ted to purc hase prop erty for new
Tem ple cons truct ion
in La Jolla.

EAST SAN DIEG O LoDG E No. 561

Appr oved application to place bid of $30,000.00
for acquisition of
prop erty for futur e Tem ple construction.
EL CAJO N LoDG E No. 576

Cons ent gran ted to expe nd $3000.00 to purc hase
addit ional land adj•acent to Lodge.for futur e building and park ing
area.

SANT A MAR IA LoDG E No. 580

Cons ent gran ted to purc hase Tem ple site for $340

SOJO URNE R LoDG E No. 607

0.00.

Cons ent gran ted Lodg e and Tem ple Associatio
n for permission to
trans fer $4000.00 from Lodge general funds
to Tem ple Association to
be used to pay stree t asses smen t fronting on
Lodge prop erty in Duar te.
HEM ET LoDG E No. 615
Cons ent gran ted to start construction of Hem
et Lodge at a cost
of appr oxim ately $34,000.00 to enclose.
TRUT H LODG E No. 628
Cons ent gran ted to form non profit Tem ple
Association and to
trans fer $2500.00 from Lodg e funds to Tem ple
Association in exch ange
for regu lar membership in said Association.
ALTA LoMA LoDG E No. 643
Cons ent gran ted to extension of existing lease
between Oil Service
Com pany and the Lodg e for a perio d of 5 year
s terminating Augu st 9,
1965.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

182

183

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
HIGHLAND LoDGE No. 748

FLORENCE LoDGE No. 649

Consent granted to transfer $4400.00 from Lodge funds to the
Temple Association to be applied on the principal of outstanding loan
on t!he Temple property.
MENLO PARK LoDGE No. 651

Consent granted to purchase existing property being used for
Masonic purposes in Menlo Park.
SAN CARLOS LoDGE No. 690

Consent granted to transfer $5000.00 from Lodge funds to Temple
Association to be used as down payment on Temple site property in
Burlingame: also, to complete purchase at total sum of $60,000.00.
B1xBY KNOLLS LoDGE No. 699

Consent granted to form Masonic Temple Associ:ation and to
transfer funds from the Lodge to the Association.
WESTCHESTER LoDGE No. 703

Tentative approval granted to proceed with proposed lease with
option to buy new Temple site for future Lodge construction.
Consent granted to enter into lease agreement for Lodge site and
to start construction of new Westchester Masonic Lodge at estimated
cost of $119,000.00: also, consent granted to transfer not to exceed
$14,000.00 from Lodge funds to Temple Association to be used in construction cost.
EL CERRITO LoDGE No. 705

Consent granted to purchase property for Temple site for $4000.00
and to transfer said sum from the Lodge to the Temple Association for
such purpose.
BLUE LAKES LoDGE No. 714

Consent granted to purchase Temple building in San Bruno for
$45,000.00: also, to the transfer of $8000.00 from Lodge funds to tlie
Temple Association in exchange for a regular membership in said
amount.
LEMON GROVE LoDGE No. 736

Consent granted to borrow $6000.00 to be used to complete new
Masonic Temple in Lemon Grove.
CLAUDE H. MoRRISON LoDGE No. 747

Application approved to purchase property for $8000.00 for the
purpose of constructing a Masonic Temple in Imperial Beach.

Consent granted to the application to form die Highland Masonic
Temple Association and to transfer the sum of $1000.00 from Lodge
funds to the newly formed Association.
M1ss10N BAY LoDGE No. 771

Consent granted to form Mission Bay Masonic Temple Association
and to transfer not less than $100.00 from Lodge general funds to said
Association.
SAN DrnGmTo LoDGE No. 775

Consent granted to agreement between Lodge member, Herman B.
Shirley, and Temple Association to accept 1600 shares of Container
Corporation for the purpose of building Masonic Temple in Encinitas.
Application approved to start construction of new Temple in
Encinitas.
Rm LINDA LoDGE No. 786
Application approved to incorporate the Rio Linda Masonic Temple
Association; also, to transfer $100.00 from Lodge funds to the Association.
MILLBRAE LoDGE No. 792

Consent granted to form Masonic Temple Association and to transfer funds from the Lodge to the Association.
The Committee desires to acknowledge and to express its appreciation of the fine support provided by our Grand Master, Alfred F. Breslauer, and his offic;ers. We particularly wish to thank the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary and their excellent staff for the
assistance and cooperation given the Committee. Without such assistance the tasks of the Committee would have proved troublesome and
difficult. With such assistance and support the resultant success of the
efforts of the Committee on behalf of the constituent Lodges has been
most gratifying and rewarding. The Committee extends its grateful
appreciation for the aid and assistance- give it by all concerned.
Respectfully submitted,
MARK A. GREEN
HERBERT HARGRAVE, }R.
STURM
GEORGE
JoHNT. BoND
WILLIAM H. ADAMS
IVAN T. CRASE
HOLBERT
GLEN
BECKER
ARTHUR
BENJAMIN SUSMAN

w.

c.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

s.

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The success of the 42nd Annual Observance of PSW in California
is evidenced by ~he fact that your Committee was able to effectively
bring home to the Public School Teachers that they are the "Builders of
Tomorrow's Leaders."
Reports of this committee during the past twenty years or so (which
I have reviewed in preparation for this report) contain a running account
of the progress made over the years. This report is made primarily to
record and acknowledge the splendid work accomplished by the con~
stituent Lodges and Districts during the 42nd Observance.
"T'he Year of the Master Mason" has been the theme of our Grand
Master's general program. His program has been geared to the dues~
paying member, the brother on the side~lines, the person for whom we,
as officers, perform our work. He carried this general idea into his theme
for the 1961 PSW Observance by directing that the TEACHER the person on the firing line - be recognized and honored.
Through the cooperation of the San Francisco Unified Sdhool
District, the assignment was given to the journalism students of the
seven SF high schools to complete the slogan: "The Public School
Teacher
"
Hundreds of slogans were submitted. Our Grand Master, without
knowing the identity of the student, selected the one submitted by
Shirley Cooper, a student of San Francisco's Lowell High School. who
completed the slogan: "The Public School Teacher - Builder of
Tomorrow's Leaders."
This meaningful phrase at once identifies those charged with the
task of pereptuating the freedoms we enjoy, and is descriptive of what
the teachers are doing: Building Tomorrow's Leaders.
So this slogan was sent on its way throughout our great jurisdiction
where it met with enthusiastic acceptance of everyone connected with
our PSW program. This slogan, we are sure, was particularly appreci~
ated by the 130,000 public school teachers in our jurisdiction.
At the April 18th meeting of the San Francisco Board of Education,
the winner, Shirley Cooper, was presented with a little gift of apprecia~
tion from the PSW Committee. This gift was presented to her by our
revered Past Grand Master and Founder of PSW, Charles Albert
Adams.
Seven thousand copies of the "Guide for Planning" were printed.
These were distributed to PS officials, the Lodges, and to the concordant
Bodies, who, in a spirit of splendid cooperation, issued Proclamations
to their members, similar to the Proclamation of our Grand Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

185

We must here express appreciation to the California Teachers As~
sociation for its assistance and cooperation. The CT A ran our Grand
~od~e e~velopes through its addressograph equipment, and a copy of the
Gmde, together with a covering letter, went to each of the 1387
Superintendents of Sdhools in California, the Presidents of California's
62 Junior Colleges, and to the Principals of California's 711 Senior
Hig_h S:cho?ls and the Principals of our 291 Junior High Schools. This is
a d1str1~utlon of 2389 to California school administrators, mailed to
them directly from the Temple on Nob Hill! Many of the foregoing,
I am happy to report, are members of the Craft.
Comments from several of the Superintendents are appended to this
~ep~rt. It is disappointing to learn how many PS people in this juris~

diction do not know of Masonry's interest in and connection with PSW.
There are c?mpelling reason~ why this affiliation should be made ap~
parent, partlcu_larly_to th~se _m charge .?f our .~ublic Schools. Possibly
t~rough the wide d1ssemmatlon of the Guide this year, the informa~
tlon may be greater, but this should be implemented.
At this writing, several weeks prior to the Annual Communication
I have received some twenty reports, directed to me at my home. Th~
temptation to review in writing these reports from Lodges and Districts
is strong. However, you may peruse these reports at tihe exhibit in the
Temple during Grand Lodge Week. I shall touch only upon the covering
letter from Worshipful Ebert A. Jackson, Master of Hawthorne Lodge
No. 647, who wrote:

"In conjunction with Opportunity Lodge No. 740, we honored,
with a banqu~t and program, 178 active teachers and eight retired
teachers. Seventy~eight teachers with 15 or more years of service
were presented with a framed Certificate of Appreciation for their
tenure of service. We believe that "Honoring the Public School
Teacher" is the best program the Grand Lodge Committee has pre~
sented to the constituent Lodges. Next year we are planning the
same program of recognition for the high school teachers of our
District."
This is typical, my brethren, of the reports of activity during the
1961 PSW Observance. We are sure that tihe 130,000 teachers in
California's public schools appreciate this deserved recognition.
The master plans for PSW that have been sent to me by so many
areas of our jurisdiction hlave been inspiring. I have learned much from
the brethren who have been "doing the job." They are not all Masters
and Past Masters. Many side~line members in Lodges have chairmaned
the PSW committees in their communities, with honor to our program.
They are the men to whom we are indebted for the increased success of
this program yeiar after year.

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Most of these brethren we shall never know, but they are the loyal
workers in the quarries who do the job. Closer to home is the Grand
Lodge staff, and particularly Henry D. Oliphant, whom I, as a Lodge
Secretary, have occasion to call upon for advice reguFarly throughout the
year.
My particular thanks go to our Grand Master, Alfred F. Breslauer,
who last year invited me to accept this assignment. Among the most
pleasurable experiences of this chairmanship has been the constant
association I have been privileged to enjoy with this dynamic personality. His wise counsel was behind much of the planning of the 42nd
Annual Observance of PSW
The Grand Lodge PSW program has now been firmly established
in the calendar of the Public School year. But that is not enough. We
must bring home to the 130,000 teachers and all administrators in o~r
public schools the knowledge that a quarter million ·Masons and their
families are vitally interested in ~he work and efforts of those educators
of our children.
The California Grand Lodge PSW program has been adopted by
many other Masonic Grand Lodges. This is all to the good. But here
at home there is still much to be done. We must be alert. Let us not
forget - and let not the outside world forget - that this Prog·ram was
founded by, and is fostered by, the "Grand Lodge Free & Accepted
Masons of California."
Respectfully submitted,

" ... The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California is to
be congratulated for its interest and helpfulness in the public education
in our State." - Everett C. Braun, District Supt., Moorpark Memorial
Union High.
" ... In addition, I might say that we have appreciated yearly all of the
work that 1has been done by the Masons for the support of public education. It is through such groups as yours that free pubJi.c education has
prospered in America. My many thanks." -Richard L. Forster, District
Supt., fetferson Elementary School Dist.
" ... The Grand Lodge is to be complimented on its fine planning for
this annual observance of public education .... Those of us in public
education appredate the fine support given by Masons over the past
years." -Richard R. Fickel, Supt., Walnut Creek School District.
" ... I am sure that all who are in the education profession would feel
as I do. We are most grateful that an organization such as yours has
such a keen interest in education." - Daniel Ungaro, District Supt.,
Saratoga Union Schooi District.

186

IRVING A. BERLINER
VIERLING KERSEY
CLYDE E. CRAWFORD
}ESS SHEEGOG
ROLLAND ATWOOD
GEORGE K. PALMER
PERRY BARRETT
GEORGE HIATI
HORACE H. WARNOCK

Referred to Committee on Finance.
COMMENTS FROM SEVERAL SUPERINTENDENTS OF SCHOOLS
UPON RECEIPT OF THE 1%1 "GUIDE FOR PLANNING"

!s

" ... I am finding the booklet to be very helpful. Your Grand Lodge
to be commended for this service to the public schools. All of us m
education are indebted to the Masons for ~heir support." - (Mrs)
Virginia Barton, DiS,trict Supt., Alisa[ School District.
.
" ... Those of us in public school work appreciate the staunch backing
that the Masonic Lodges have consistently given to the ideal of public
education in America." - D. Russell Parks, District Supt., Fullerton
Elementary Schools.

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DE MOLAY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A growing awareness of the Order of De Malay is quite obvious in
all Masonic circles. This is due in a great part to the Proclamation of
De Malay Week by our Grand Master, an action which was very
favorably received.by the Masons of California and which this committee
heartily recommends to succeeding Grand Masters.
Another factor which 1has contributed to this ·awareness is the attention being focused on youth by tlhe various agencies dedicated to
the fight against the growth of Communism in this Country. During
the recent Anti-Communist School conducted in Los Angeles, a great
deal of time was spent in exposing the Communist efforts to infiltrate
and influence youth ·groups. Dr. Schwartz, the man responsible for the
School's success, stated in one of his stirring addresses that the Communist effort had infiltrated a great many youth groups. He stated ~hat
one of the few groups that was completely free of the Communist
influence was the Masonic De Malay movement. This factor alone
should inspire every serious Mason to be proud of the De Malay movement. It should emp'hasize the need for a growing support of the Order
of De Malay by the Masons of California.
Your Committee has received no reports during the past year of any
actions by De Malay Chapters which were contrary to the policies of
the Grand Lodge. 'Dhere appears to be a complete and unequivocal
acceptance of the commercialism principles of this Grand Body.

188

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Your Committee has accepted every invitation to meet with Masonic
and De Mo lay groups. We have been most pleased by the attention
given to us and the interest shown in our discussions.
Activities such as the Californ ia State and Jurisdictional Conventions, De Molay activities at the State and County Fairs, the De Molay
Week Observa nce held by the San Diego Masonic Officers Association,
and increasing number of outstand ing ritual, athletic and social events
were critically observed. We are happy to report that these activities
were conducte d in a most creditabl e manner. The Masonic fraternit y
can be justly proud of its association with these functions.
One disturbing trend was observed. This was the tendency on the
part of several Masonic Temple Associations to expect the Masonic
youth groups to shoulder unreason able rent burdens. Some De Molay
Chapter s are practical ly being priced out of existence by the rents that
they are expected to pay. An examination of the financial structure of
the average De Molay Chapter indicates that rents of 20 to 25 dollars
per month can be met without undue hardship . With this in mind, you
can readily see what rents ranging up to 80 dollars a month, plus as
much as 40 dollars for a special night for installati on of officers, are
doing to the chapters concerned. We believe that this problem merits
the attention of this Grand Lodge.
It is our sincere recommendation that this Committ ee be continue d
and that the sum of $750 be appropri ated to cover its necessar y expenses.
This Committee wishes to express its apprecia tion to our Most W orshipful Grand Master Alf red F. Breslauer for his generous support and
encourag ement during this past year.
In closing, we wish to remind you that "as a twig is bent, so grows
the tree." Let us turn our attention to the young men represen ted by
the Order of De Molay so that they will grow tall and straight in the
shadow of Masonry .
Respectf ully submitted,
HOMER E. RATHBU N
LESTER G. BRUNO
HAROLD
MEDO
NOEL W. ROSER
HAL CURTIS
WAYNE PHILIPPI
RoY H. GERARD
WILLIAM W. DEWGAW
WILLARD WILL
HENRY L. WINTZ
WENDEL L M. ANDERSO N

s.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

189

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON
RECOG NITION OF FOREIG N GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Your Committ ee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges has had
under consideration several requests for recognition as well as other information from foreign Grand Lodges and submits the following report
and recommendations:
BELGIUM

As mentioned in our report at the last Communication, a new Grand
Lodge of Belgium was formed in 1960. As of February of this year,
this Grand Lodge had eleven regular Lodges under its jurisdiction, eight
of which were formerly constituents of the Grand Orient of Belgium.
Three of these are over 150 years old. There are several other regular
Lodges still affiliated with the Grand Orient of Belgium, which we do
not recognize, but it is hoped that they, too, will join the new Grand
Lodge. The Grand Lodge of Belgium fulfills all of the conditions of
regularit y demande d by us and your Committ ee recommends that the
Grand Lodge of Californ ia extend fraternal recognition to the new
Grand Lodge of Belgium, its official address being 5, Rue Du Chene,
Brussels 1, Rene Neirinck x, Secretar y.
CUBA

Under present conditions in Cuba, the situation of Masonry is, of
course, very confused. In February of 1959 two of our Past Grand
Masters, M. W. lienry C. Clausen and M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, visited
the Grand Lodge of Cuba. This was after the time of the taking over
of the governm ent by the Castro regime. Our represen tatives were assured then that there would be no interfere nce with Masonry under the
new regime. Later, however, the records, parapher nalia, membership
lists, and other records and property of the Grand Lodge of Cuba,
including the Grand Lodge Temple, were seized and confiscated by the
dictators hip. The Grand Master of Masons in Cuba, for the preserva tion
of his life and safety, was compelled to flee to the United States of
America after declaring the constitue nt Lodges in recess and is presently
residing at Miami. The Grand Master of Masons in Florida has granted
full permission to the Grand Master of Masons in Cuba to reside, in his
official capacity as Grand Master of Masons in Cuba, within the Grand
Jurisdiction of Florida and the Grand Lodge of Cuba has been granted
permission to have its official residence and home within the boundari es
of Florida and to take such official and fraternal action in Masonic
affiairs as may be appropri ate under the circumstances, to the same
extent and in full measure as it would or could do within the boundari es
of Cuba. Since the promulg ation of this order we have received further
informat ion that a Grand Lodge is trying to function within the ter-

190

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ritory of Cuba, although other information is not encouraging because
the remaining officers appear to be completely under the domination of
Castro.
Under ~he circumstances, your Committee recommends no action
at this time, awaiting fucther developments.

it is n.ow entirely regular, we recommend that the question of recognition
by this Grand lodge be held under study for another year.

FRANCE

Your Committee has reported at several prior communications on
the situation within the Grand Lodge of France. We presently recognize
this Grand Lodge and also the Grand Lodge National of France. Both
of these Grand Lodges are officially regular, though the question has
been that the Grand Lodge of France, the larger body of the two. may
not always have been successful in enforcing its regulations within its
own organization of constituent Lodges. We are happy to report,
however, that recent information we have received, including personal
visits by the Chairman of this Committee with the responsible officers
of the Grand Lodge of France and others well informed on the situation. indicates that substantial progress has been made in the last year
toward achieving full compliance with the official requirements of the
Grand lodge of France. One Lodge was suspended for non compliance and other disciplinary action taken.
In view of the progress which is undoubtedly being made, we recommend that no action be taken now toward discontinuing recognition of
the Grand Lodge of France, but that the situation be kept under review
and if conditions within that Grand Lodge should warrant, further
recommendation will be made by your Committee.
ITALY

During 1960 the Grand Orient of Italy, which we recognize, accomplished union with the National Grand Lodge of Italy, heretofore
not recognized by us. We have received a request from the expanded
Grand lodge for continued recognition. The Grand Orient of Italy,
with its 300 Lodges, added some fifteen which comprised the former
National Grand Lodge. and the expanded Grand Lodge will continue
to be known as the Grand Orient of Italy, its address being Via
Giustiniani 5, Rome. We recommend continued recognition of the Grand
Orient of Italy. as expanded by the merger referred to above.
LUXEMBOURG

The Grand Lodge of Luxembourg. which has been in existence since
1849 but not heretofore recognized by us, has now applied for our
recognition. This request is based primarily on ~he fact that the Grand
Lodge of Luxembourg has recently severed relations with the Grand
Orient of France and the Grand Orient of Belgium, neither of which
bodies is recognized by the Grand Lodge of California. While information furnished us by the Grand Lodge of Luxembourg indicates that

191

TURKEY

.. Your Committee •has 'had under consideration the question of recogmtio? of the Grand Lodge of Turkey. which was formed in 1956 and
consists of 32 lodges. The recent political disturbances in Turkey do
not appear to have interfered with regular Masonic activities in that
~ountry. We recommend, however, that due to the uncertain conditions
m Turkey, the question of recognition of the Grand Lodge of Turkey
be held over for further study.
Respectfully submitted,

Adopted.

PHIL N. MYERS
CHESTER H. WARLOW
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY, JR.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E
ON CONSTITU TION OBSERVAN CE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In its 1960 report to this Grand lodge, the Constitution Observance
Comn:ittee vo.iced its .concern over the ever-mounting evidence that
~m~r~ca was m the midst of a frightening moral slump. Further, that
its citizens were most apathetic in their efforts to prevent the onslaught
of transgressions \vhich are being made in the rights and privileges
guaranteed by the Constitution.
. That report proposed that the Constitution Observance program of
this Grand Lodge must have for its purpose: First, that we must recapture the "Spirit of '76." Second, that we must recapture the courage
of our forefathers. And ~ird, we must recapture the American challenge.
These purposes we strongly reaffirm and believe it to be self-evident
if this nation is to survive. We must implement these purposes with a
c~n~tructive working program that each and every Mason in this jurisdiction can and must take an active part.
.. The Preamble to our Constitution begins with these famous words
We the people of the United States." They proclaim to the world that
our government BELONGS to the people, is RUN by the people, and
EXISTS for the good of ~he people. We the people, then, must make
sure that our government truly belongs to, is run by, and exists for
the American people.
In keeping with these purposes and with the responsibilities imposed
by the Preamble, we propose that the Constitution Observance Com-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mittee of this Grand Lodge has for its program during the ensuing
year, the following:
1. The annual commemoration of the signing of the Constitution be
continued by the constituent Lodges. That tjhe period of celebration be confined to the week of the 17th of September in order
that a more concentrate d emphasis might be placed on this
memorable event. That a greater effort be directed toward making
the observances community affairs.
2. That a detailed citizenship development program be prepared by
the Constitution Observance Committee for use of the various
Lodges. This program to outline a course of action to accomplish:
a. A better understandi ng of the basic principles upon which our
country was founded. We must reacquaint ourselves with our
past history. We must understand more clearly what made us
a great country. It is said, "Action without knowledge breeds
confusion and chaos."
b. A greater appreciation of our voting franchise. We must increase the number of registered voters and then exercise that
privelege intelligently. We must elect men with moral courage
to all political offices. We must then support them with our
time and money. We must participate in the legislative process.
appraisal of all the members of the Communist conspiracy
An
c.
whic!h threatens to destroy not only our country, but all freedom loving countries. Our people must understand and recognize the enemy we face; his nature, his objectives, tactics,
strategy, who he is, and how he works in our midst every day.
J. Edgar Hoover has stated, "We can defeat Communism
ideology, and at the same time, reinforce the structure of our
own democracy by the combined process of exposure and
education."
By preparing an outline for those Lodges interested in presenting a citizenship development program by use of approved library
material, tapes. films and speakers, we believe a strong foundation for a better America can be built by the Masons of California. Freedom is not every man's RIGHT but instead every man's

The f~regoing. three-point program is recommended for adoption by
next ~ear s committee. Such a program can, if endorsed and supported
by this Grand Lodge and enthusiastically activated by the Lodges, assure the fulfillment of the purposes of the Constitution Observance program of Grand Lodge.
Bec~use reports of t'his year's observances are not yet available, no
accountmg of them can be made in this report. We are pleased to state,
however, that the program initiated by the Lodges of Whittier - that
of distributing the Preamble and Flag - was adopted this year by over
50 Lodges. As a result, 96,500 Preambles and Flags were distributed to
the. p~bli~ throughout the state. A truly exemplary program, worthy of
all 1m1tation.
Your chairman and all the enthusiastic members of this committee
would ~ike to .express our sincere appreciation for the privilege and honor
of servmg this Grand Lodge. To you, Most Worshipful , we have been
~ost ~lea~ed ~o have been a member of your official family. You have
given msp1ration to all C'alifornia Masons by your outstanding conduct
of the office o.f Grand Master. To our friend Henry Oliphant, our
wonderful Assistant Grand Secretary and his staff, our thanks for all
your helpful and dependable service. To you my brethren, remember
that "Eternal Vigilance is the Price of Liberty."

192

RESPONSI BILITY.
3. The community of Woodland Hills this year promoted what they
were pleased to call "Freedom Season." Commencing with Flag
Day, June H, and ending on the Fourth of July, all citizens were
urged to each day display the flag of our country. We believe
this to be an outstanding demonstration of the type of patriotism
we are striving for and should be promoted throughout the state.

Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD c. MUDGETT
ROBERT A. MILLER
REYNOLD c. MACDONALD
ANDREW L. SPINAS
EARL PATTERSON, JR.
SY DENNIS, JR.
0. D. PINKERTON
PETER M. TRIPP
JESSE J. BELL
SERGEI N. IVANOFF
EVERETTS. Toco
FRED J. H. RICKON
ROBERT LINTNER
GEORGE F. MENDERHAUSEN
Referred to Committee on Finance.

193

19i

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

195

NER S
REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON SOJ OUR
A. M. of California:
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lodge F. &

::::~~:oo!i:~~'!::~e so that the member could be aided in

e its grea test effort in
The Sojo urne rs Com mitte e once agai n mad
on become awar e of
dicti
Juris
d
Gran
seek ing to have the Lodg es in this
in our midst. This year we
the possibilities offered by the Sojo urne rs
nort h coas t area of Eure ka,
had, for the first time, repre senta tion in the
ts of our committee, with the
and in Haw aii. In the form er area the effor
in orga nizin g a Sojo urne rs'
d
coop erati on of the local Lodg es. succ eede
rs, gath ered at the Eure ka
urne
sojo
ly
Nigh t. Ove r 300 breth ren, most
s sent forth by the spon sorMas onic Tem ple in answ er to the invit ation
the large st Mas onic gath ering
ing Lodg es. This was said to have been
in the Eure ka Lodg e in man y year s.
incre asing num bers of
In Haw aii, •a s can be assu med , there are
"Isla nds. " Thro ugh
the
to
sojo urne rs as main land ers have migr ated
Lodge, and vario us
or
Harb
l
Pear
the lead ersh ip of our Com mitte eman ,
ity in our newe st
activ
g
urnin
sojo
rs,
units of the Nati onal Sojo urne
this inter est was reflected in
state has show n rene wed inter est. Part of
Oah u, the first in that area .
the insti tutio n of a new Lodg e in wind ward
e Lodg es whic h have so
The Com mitte e is inde ed grate ful to thos
s. As in the past, Sout hern
enth usias tical ly ente red into sojo urnin g plan
field for sojo urne r work
tile
Cali forn ia has cont inue d to be the most fer
h, Com pton , and San
Beac
Long
with our vete ran com mitte emen in
icts.
distr
their
in
s
Dieg o, mak ing num erou s visit ation
rime nting with a serie s of
Our Long Beac h Com mitte eman is expe
ed num ber of Lodg es near
pick
a
ing
card s and lette rs to sojo urne rs visit
e on a very limited scale,
to this committeman. Due to this expe rienc
ultim ate affiliation of seve ral
we feel we were succ essfu l in aidin g in the
limited scale oper ation to
breth ren. It may be poss ible to exte nd this
ssary coop erati on from
nece
the
othe r popu lous area s prov ided we get
the vario us Lodges.
rted that gath ering s of
Our Sout hern Cali forn ia repre senta tives repo
at Sojo urne r Nigh ts.
n
mmo
unco
not
upw ards of 200 breth ren were
have mad e a tradi tion out of
Man y Lodg es in the sout hern area now
at New port Beach custo mari ly
the "Soj ourn er Nigh t." Seaf aring Lodg e
urne r Nigh t. It is state d that
gree ts 250 to 350 Mas ons at its annu al Sojo
Seaf aring Lodg e ever y year .
some 30 to 45 sojo urne rs affiliate with
be done whe n efforts are
This is an excellent exam ple of wha t can
ia M•a sonic life.
mad e to inclu de sojo urne rs in our Cali forn
on a state -wid e level.
The Sojo urne rs Com mitte e has recen tly,
"per man ently " give n
had
who
,
urge d all Lodges, on a volu ntary basis
state , to notif y Lodg es of the
up breth ren to othe r dista nt place s in the

membership to othe r loca litie: ru~h
e a ove num er 780 were in the
importa~t ~ut-of-state cate gor; .
to us. Atte ntion to
~ffihations cont inue to flowmem
the sojo urne r will
bership rolls.
ased
incre
in
deflrutely bear fruit
Resp ectfu lly subm itted

finding

we~e 2,250 affiliations to Cali
forn~ur{~~;:: fi~~:t:!~~;n~~ ~ear therem~m
ers w~l move their hom e
-

WILL IAM A. CoHENDE~
FRAN CIS H. GEN TRY
WES TLEY P. JONE S
EDW ARD M. DOW NS
JOHN RICH MON D
V. V. KOLOMBATOVIC
GEOR GE COR NWE LL
JOSE PH V. ANTI STO
ELM ER E. Ross
BEN T. SALM ON
Lom s B. SMIT H
ART HUR CORB ETT
CHA S. B. TUR NER

Refe rred to Com mitte e on Fina nce.

REP ORT OF RET IRE ME NT PLA N COM

MIT TEE

.
A M of C al'f
i orma:
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lodge F . ur. • .
5 M~sonic Hom es of Cali forn ia estab lishe d a
Reti~e:~~c~:boerme6 • an or.
1955.
its. employees effective Janu ary 1.l ,C
c
Thi
A
1947
the
at
omnnua
s. w~s done unde r authorizat10n gran ted
mumcation.
.
Lod
Duri ng the 1955 Com mun icati on, Gran d
vne­
e~ect:
~:d
pt~o
d Lodg e b~~~
clusifonJ of certa in emp loye es in the Gran
as o anua ry 1, 1956.
n into the Plan of the
.A t tihe \956 Com mun icati on, the integ ratio

Ji9 4£

!li~~!i;~1;;;,~~:t J:~:~~=j
~~u~~:r~~do~h~e~
*a;1o~l~iveffe:i~;e~~ J~u~f
anua ry 1, 1957 was direc ted.

emp e ecbv
ution was adop ted auth or
. . To accomplish these instructions, a resol
to do all th.
etary
Secr
d
iz1~g the Gran d Mas ter and Granall Gran d Lod e
y
ssar
n~ce
mgs
1
to implement the integ ratio n of
oyee s mto the
m~
Mason~c Hom es of Cali forn ia Reti reme nt Inco
d
.
a
pl·
nded
d Dece mbe r 8 ' 1958 the ame
n was Bs1gne
By mstr ume ntt date
.
d
Th
S
U
ff
the
t
·
by
put
and
e etail s have been appr oved
m o e ec .
· . urea u
o f I ntern al Revenue.

pf::::

197

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The original plan was administered by a Pension Committee composed of the entire Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes of California.
The amended Plan covering all employees of Grand Lodge is now
governed by a Committee, three of whom are selected by the Homes
Board and two by tihe Grand Master.
The current members are:
L. HAROLD ANDERSON, P.G.l\'.L ...... .....•............... 346
REGINALD M. MILLS............. ................................. 61
JAMES LEO HALLEY................................. ............... 375
LEO SIEVERT.. ................................. ......................... 685
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.G.M ... ........... ............... 481
This Committee is charged with the full responsibility of administering the Plan in accordance with its written terms.
Among its responsibilities are the following:
1. Approval of requests for early retirement.
2. Approval of requests for disability retirement.
3. Approval of optional retirement requests.
4. Approval of requests for continuance of employment
after retirement date has been readied and establishment of conditions of such employment.
To sustain the plan, the Pension Committee is required to determine
from time to time, with actuarial assistance, the amount of money essential to keep the plan solvent and to meet its liability both for current
and accrued service.
This sum, togetiher with a 3% contribution by member employees is
deposited with the Trustee, Wells Fargo Bank American Trust Company of San Francisco. The Trustee cooperated 100% with the Committee and has adopted for its guidance the Grand Lodge "Prudent Man
Rule" for investing these funds. In addition, ·all contemplated investments are referred to and cleared with the Grand Lodge Committee on
Investments.
The Masonic Homes of California paid over to the Trustee from its
reserve sufficient funds to fully cover all past service credits and has
discharged its liability in that respect. In addition, it has paid annually
all charges for current service.
When the Plan was amended to include Grand Lodge employees,
no cash payment was made to the Trustee for past service liability insofar as these employees were concerned. As of January 1, 1961 this
liability has been computed to be $127,898. Current service contributions only have been paid.
Because of this situation, Grand Lodge is required ·annually to pay
to the Trustee in addition to the current service contribution, interest
which would have been earned were it fully funded. This has the

effect of making our annual payment supported by per capita tax larger
than necessary if the Plan had been fully funded.
It is the recommendation of this Committee that Grand Lodge fully
discharge its liability to tihese covered employees by paying from its
reserves the sum of $127,898, plus interest to date, thereby completing
its contract.
Authorization for this payment is contained in the resolution of
1956 and sufficient funds are in the Grand Lodge Treasury.

196

When this payment is made the Plan would then be completely
funded and the ~ension Committee would be relieved of this phase of
superv·ision. The only annual payment required thereafter would be
for earned current service and would be reduced as the Plan seasoned
and as demands on reserves are reduced by virtue of natural mortality
affecting pensioned employees.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR M. WARREN
L. HAROLD ANDERSON
}AMES LEO HALLEY
LEO SIEVERT
REGINALD M. MILLS

Referred to Committee on Finance.
At 12:00 noon Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, September 26, 1961

worship Him at the appointed time." The church was nearly always
filled, for no family wanted its corner to be dark.

At 1 : 30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was deJi.vered by the Grand Chaplain.

GRAND ORATION
"FOR SUCH A TIME AS THIS"

199

Well. my hretlhren, Grand Lodge is like that. It says to each and
every member: Bring with you your Masonic Light, and with it the
light of all the members of your Lodge-for Grand Lodge is the sum
total of all the light of all brethren. Let the light which you bear illumine
our path up the mountain side in our search for truth.

MYRON E. SMITH, Grand Orator

Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren:
It is wonderful to have this opportunity to express to the Grand
Lodge and to our Most Worshipful Grand Master my deep appreciation for the privilege of serving in this station throughout the past year.
This has been a glorious year in California Masonry! The inspired
leadership of our Grand Master and the enthusiastic support given him
by all the brethren have been superb. His warm and fri~dly. manne~,
the wisdom, strength and beauty of harmony of all his actions, his
understanding of the role of the Master Mason, 'his love for all the
brethren, have brought new distinction to the craft. To have been of
some small service to him and to the Grand Lodge has been a joy,
which I shall treasure always.
You have given explicit instructions to him who occupies the station
in which I now stand. By tradition, you have made it his duty to
address the Grand Lodge upon matters appertaining to the Craft.
Implicit is the obvious injunction that the matters spoken shall be of
maximum import. In the discharge of this duty, your help and your
assistance are necessary, for this is a mutual endeavor in which we
search togetlher for new and further light in Masonry.
In a little European mountain village, a traveler noticed in the late
afternoon that the people of the village left it to walk up a path on the
mountain side. Each carried a lamp. He followed and found that they
were going to a small church.
In the church, there were no light fixtures. It was lighted only by
the lamps the people brought with them. At first, when only a fe"'.' had
arrived, the traveler dimly saw the outline of the pews and pulpit. It
seemed quiet and peaceful, and he bowed his head in a moment of
prayer. When he looked up, the room was becoming brighter and
brighter as people came in. With the increased light, it became more
beautiful.
The traveler learned that the pioneers who built t<he church wanted
every person in the village to come to the..church for worship t~ere. So
they gave each person a lamp and said, Some corner of God s house
will be dark and lonely, unless all his sons and daughters come to

What, t1hen, is our most important Masonic concern, upon which to
focus all the light we now have? Could it not he said that these are
reflective moments-a pause in the day's occupation, as it were-to ask
ourselves:
. .. whence came we?:
... where are we?; and,
... whither are we traveling?
When we ask ourselves these questions, we realize that our concern
is not the means hut the ends of life. The president of a great university
ask~d a .~tudent why he w~s att~nding the school. The young man
replied: To b~ome an engineer. This, the ~fofessor said, was very
commendable. But why are you really here? , he insisted. Puzzled,
the student answered: "To obtain further knowledge." "That, too, is to
~e admired," responded the professor, "But what is your goal in life?"
Oh! I see what you mean. My purpose in life is to learn the will of
God for my l{fe and do everything within my ability for the good of
mankind."
. . So it is in 1Mason~. Important as is the business of making a
hvmg-the means of hfe--our great concern is ~he ends of life. This
is the objective of Masonry: to help us achieve the ends of life. All of
our symbolism, all of Masonry's lessons are pointed in that direction.
How may we he certain that, in our day, we achieve the ends of life?
. Our concern is not for ourselves alone. We needs must keep faith
with our brethren of other years who have long since joined the Great
Grand Lodge on High, whose sacrifice and devotion have made life
possible for us today, and wit1h our children and our children's children,
the character of whose lives will he determined by our own sacrifice
and devotion.
How like a great relay race life is for us! What a thrill it is to witness
the relay at a great track meet or in the modern Olympics. Each runner
on the team carries the baton for a measured distance, then passes it on
to a teammate who runs awhile until he, too, hands the baton on to

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

another, and so on until the race is completed. Timing, coordination,
teamwork, stamina-all are imperative. If one runner stumbles or drops
the baton, the efforts of those who preceded him will have been of no
avail and those to follow will have no opportunity to run at all.

the power to destroy itself. The nuclear power that should be man's
servant at once has become the enemy of its maker. Though man has
mastered anew the forces of nature, yet he cannot enjoy his achievement.
For fear of his life, he must look for a place to hide. And he can find
none.

We did not begin the race of life alone. Others preceded us. They
continued for a distance, then handed us the baton. One day we will
hand the baton of life on to another generation. Will we hand on
undimmed the blessings of liberty so hard won for us?
For our generation, these are days of tremendous challenge. We
live in the greatest age of all time. Within our lifetime, more has
happened-more is happening-than in any previous period in the
history of the world. Think how the world has changed since we were
born!
Distances have become insignificant. The ·h orse and buggy have
given way to the automobile and the airplane. And now the space age
is upon us. With the turn of a dial, we telephone 'round the world. By
television, we see events as they transpire across the country. The
world grows smaller.

. Herein is the paradox: dazzling progress in technology and materialism on the one 1hand and confused retrogression in satisfying the deepest
needs of the human spirit on the other. This we recognize as evidence
of a grave disorder in man's relation to his God and with his fellow man.
The great English historian, Arnold Toynbee, tells us that, actually,
we are engaged in three kinds of war:
... a physical war:
... an ideological war: and
... a spiritual war.
On a worldwide basis, two opposing philosophies struggle for control
over the minds and hearts and consciences of men:
• .. corporate despotism vs.

Creature comforts have increased. Modern industry produces for
us limitless conveniences unknown to kings at the turn of the century.

. .. tyranny
. . . enslavement
... atheism
. .. man is nothing

Life spans have lengthened. Newly discovered medicines, surgical
techniques and the science of nutrition extend the lives of men.
Leisure time has been expanded. New methods of production,
automation, make machines do more work for us.
Power beyond imagination has become ours. In a 15 pound package,
a child could carry enough fissionable material to produce all the power
required in the United States for an entire year. Mankind now has
the power to provide all its necessities. The atomic age is here.
Man's inventive genius has created a new world for men to live in,
and has us poised at the threshhold of still other worlds about to be
explored.
But, in the midst of all this scientific progress, we are sobered by
the realization that comparable progress has not been made in moral
and spiritual matters.
Man's inhumanity to man has surpassed all Biblical records! Two
World Wars have been fought, and now we are engaged in a cold
war, the horrors of which, if it becomes a hot war, make every thinking
man shudder in advance. The human race now has within its possession

201

"the right to life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness"
vs . government of law
vs. freedom
vs. belief in God
vs. man is a child of God

The gravity of events in the life of our world is such ~hat none of
us can afford just to "do business as usual." Our society, our whole
way of life, everything in which we believe, are being challenged by a
powerful atheistic attack that endangers every privilege we have--even
our very right to be Freemasons.
"For such a time as this," we are confronted by the question: "What
shall we do?"
In the language of numbers, much spoken of by Masons, there are
three things that we individually can do:
I.

Obtain all the knowledge that we can about the alien philosophy which is so diametrically opposed to our beliefs.

II.

Replenish the springs of our faith in our principles and ideals.

III. Sustain the institutions so essential to our freedom.

I. Consider the first category: to obtain knowledge. Let all of us
make it our duty to study and acquaint ourselves with the dangers

202

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

w:hich lurk in the alien and counterfei t philosoph y which threatens all
free men. Espoused by Marx and given the name of dialectical materialism, it now goes by the name of communism. Its theory is that
economic and materialistic forces determine the events of history; that
there is no place for individual motive, spiritual inspiration, moral
discipline or ethical law; and that the human personalit y must be
subservien t to the interests of the state.
It says to us: God is dead! There is no divine creator. Life just
happened. There is no wisdom over all.
It establishes its own morality by the dictates of a dominant minority.
It defines truth as anything that serves its purpose.
It waives human freedom aside as nothing.
It masquerad es as an economic and political concept, when in fact it
is philosophical.
It worships itself-ma terialism -as a God, while denying that there
is a God. As such, it is idolatry and violates God's first commandment:
"Thou shalt have no other gods before me!"
It purports to be utopia and in less than half a century has imposed
itself upon nearly half of mankind.
It seeks to dominate the world through the destructio n of all free
institutions and the will to resist.

It uses physical force and intellectual subversion to attain its purposes. It employs the most subtle methods to discredit and ridicule
western civilization and instill fear.
It knows that apathy, indifference and inaction are its allies.
Standing squarely in opposition to this ideology is the spiritual
concept of western civilization: that man is a cllild of God and therefore
of supreme worth; that the highest value to be attained by man is the
development of his human personality; that man's rights come from
God and man forms his governme nt to protect those rights.
When the two philosophies are thus contrasted , we realize more
clearly why no Mason may accept ~he dogma of dialectical materialism
and. as individuals, each must put himself against the creeping paralysis
of the counterfei t ideology which threatens to engulf the free world.
So, as a first step. to avoid being deceived by it, let us obtain all
the knowledg e we can about the gigantic evil.
II. Consider the second thing that we must do: replenish our faith
in all of our principles and ideals.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

203

To be against an insidious movement is well, but it is not enough.
We must be "for" the principles in which we believe. We must remember
~hat no doctrine, truth or knowledg e can live in the intellect if it does
not renew itself in experience. If our beliefs do not renew themselves in
our experience, they become just words.
So if we are to make certain whither we are traveling, we must reexamine and re-evaluat e the principles by which we live, and dedicate
and devote ourselves anew to our faith.
We believe in God and the immortality of the soul. In our application and throughou t the degrees we have testified to that repeatedly ,
for no atheist may pass our tiled door. Shall we each not ask: How
deeply do I believe in God? Is God at the center of my life, where He
has a right to be? Is He my constant companion, nearer to me than the
breath I breathe, or is He a pocket God, to be consulted only at my
convenience?
Emerson wisely said that a man is what he thinks about all day. T 1h at
which dominates his thinking tends to find expression in his life. What
is the pattern of our thoughts? Do we think about God and thus give
Him a place in our lives? To truly believe in God. let us let God occupy
our thoug·h ts and thus guide our lives.
The great Jewish physician and philosoph er of the twelfth century,
Maimonedes, has some wise advice for us. In his view, there are four
states of perfection :
(a) A material. level in which men seek happiness through goods
and property;
( b) A physical level based upon the development of bodily strength;
( c) A moral level developed by adhering to the laws of righteousness and virtue; and
( d) A spiritual level founded upon faith in God.
"The knowledge of God," he said, "is the only perfection we should
seek."
Daniel Webster once was asked what was the greatest thought that
had ever entered his massive mind. Reflecting a moment, he answered:
"The greatness of God and my accountability to Him!"
We read in the rule and guide to our faith, open upon our altar:
"The earth is the Lord's and the Fullness thereof; ~e world and they
that dwell therein."
God is the giver of life, the creator and owner of all things on earth

205

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

and in the heavens. Everything we have and are, we hold in trust for
Him. We have the deed to nothing. We are leaseholders from God who
holds the title to all. As trustees under God, every power and every
attribute should be used, not for selfish or ignoble objectives, but for
the glory of God and the loftiest development of individual personality.

Justice: There is yet so much injustice in the world that, with new
resolve, we must exemplify this virtue.

204

So it is with the great tenets of Masonry: brotherly love, relief and
truth. Never before have we needed so much to devote ourselves to
these great principles.

If we have accountability, how are we accountable? We have an
accountability for the right use of our time, our talents and our pas~
sessions.
Time is a deposit in the bank of God. No one of us knows how
much of a balance any of us has. In the sigiht of God, we are trustees
of the hours, the days and the years.
The Great Architect endowed us all with the talents we possess.
To use them to the exclusion of his purposes is to frustrate the end for
which they were given.

Sometimes, we have difficulty with the word "love." "Love thy
enemies" is the Biblical message. How can we love those who would
destroy us? The problem is one of definition in translation of the Bible
from the Greek. The Greek language has three words for love, each
with a different meaning: Eros; philia; agape.

Because the Kingdom of God deals with lhuman beings in their
earthly relationships it must employ earthly institutions . and instru~
ments. For the wise and earnest use of those possessions we are
accountable to God.

Agape love does not depend upon lovableness of the other person
or shared interests. It arises from recognition of the need of the other
person for fellowship. It is a consuming concern for the welfare of
others.

Harry Emerson Fosdick puts it this way: "It is a good .thing to
check up once in awhile and make sure you have not lost the thmgs th.at
money cannot buy.... Everything that money can buy depends for its
ultimate worth, for the purpose it serves, for its final effect on human
life, upon the things that money cannot buy."

This is the need of the hour: agape love, a consuming conrcern.

We believed in immortality. Too easily, it can be assumed that this
is a state of being that occurs when we die. But, if we are immortal ever,
we are immortal here and now. Let us resolve, then, to live our immor~
tality now, by living every waking moment as though we do expect to
live forever.
We believe in the cardinal virtues: temperance, fortitude, prudence
and justice. Consider their application today.

Temperance: We shall need to be especially temperate i~ our atti~
tudes toward the underprivileged of the world who, to obtam enough
to eat, fall victims to the alien philosophy.
Fortitude: Nothing undermines so completely as fear. Fear is every~
where in the world. Fear alone can overwhelm our will to resist. The
only antidote is the shield of faith.
Prudence: How heavily we must draw upon this virtue, on an inter~
national basis, lest, by accident, a thoughtless act precipitate a halo~
caust.

Eros is the love of husband for wife: attraction to another because
of the other's attractiveness.
Philia is the love of parents for child: attraction because of mutual
concern.

We believe in the spiritual graces: faith, hope and charity. How
greatly the world is in need of their message today!
Joseph Fort Newton tells us that: "Belief is a truth held in the
mind. Faith 'is a fire in the heart." Think of it! To have such a con~
viction about our beliefs that our hearts are on fire. It is the virtue by
which we are united to God.
Hope is the "anchor of the soul," the source of that energy, courage
and endurance without which spiritual progress would be impossible.
Nothing great, Emerson admonished us, is ever accomplished with~
out enthusiasm. My brethren, as never before, let us from this day
henceforth be enthusiastic about our principles and ideals, that we may
achieve true perfection.
III. And now a very brief comment concerning our third thing to
do: sustain our free institutions.
Today we enjoy life in a free country because of a document con~
taining approximately 4,000 words and 89 paragraphs-our Constitu~
tion. It assures us of government by law. It is a priceless heritage. Let
us here resolve to support and sustain it with greater earnestness than
ever before.

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Likewise, let us strengthen our support of our public schools, the
institution through which man obtains the education necessary to govern
himself.
And lastly shall we not encourage one another to support more
faithfully the church or synagogue of our faith?
Masonry, we so well know, is religious but it is not a religion.
Masonry supplements and undergirds the work of synagogue and
church, but never was intended to take their place in our moral and
spiritual development. Let us emulate the example of our Grand Master
who, for more than 30 years, has been active in the religious school of
his faith-most of the time as Superintenden t of his Temple School.

*

*

*

*

*

For such a day as this, these then are the things we can do, my
brethren, to help resolve the paradox of our generation: Obtain knowledge of the evil that confronts us that we may avoid it; replenish our
faith in our beliefs; and sustain our free institutions.
We live at a great time-the wind is blowing-the trees are bending
-the earth is shaking, but these are great days in which to be alive.
Life was not made to be taken easy. Life is an uphill climb all the
way. But, with Luther, "If God be for us who can be against us?"
In the long war between the evil and the good, our faith in God will
see us through, for, in the words of Patience Strong:

"If you stand very still in the heart
of a wood - you will 'hear many wonderful things - The snap of a twig and the
wind in the trees and the whirr of
invisible wings .... If you stand very
still in the turmoil of life - and you wait
for the voice from within -you'll be led
down the quiet ways of wisdom and peace in a mad world of chaos and din ....
If you stand very still and you hold to
your faith - you will get all the ·help
you ask - You will draw from the Silence
the things that you need - Hope and
courage, and strength for your task."
The oration was received with a standing ovation.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to have the
oration printed and a copy thereof mailed to each Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

207

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the 1960 Communicatio n the dispensation of Yucca Valley Lodge
U. D. was continued for an additional year. During the current Masonic
year six more Lodges have been instituted. Six of t'he seven Lodges
under dispensation have applied for charters.
All of the Lodges have submitted their records and have sent
deleg'ates to appear before the Committee on Charters. In some cases
there were minor errors or omissions in their records but these were
of a nature that could be easily corrected. All of the Lodges are in
sound financial condition.
One of the continuing pleasures enjoyed by members of the Committee on Charters is the contacts they have with the enthusiasm and
zeal of those who work to form new Lodges. Examples of this devotion
to Masonry are so commonplace in the formation of new Lodges that
they are seldom recorded in the reports of this Committee. However, it
might be of interest to this Grand Lodge to have an example which
typifies this spirit.
The Masons of Yucca Valley, a fast growing community situated
in t'he high desert area between Palm Springs and Twentynine Palms
in Southern California, have long desired a Masonic Lodge of their
own. A Masonic group was formed and, as there was no meeting place
in the area, they constructed a building suitable for Masonic and other
community ll).eetings. A group of the brethren then organized for the
formation of a Lodge and Yucca Valley Lodge was instituted June 11,
1960, and the dispensation was continued at the last Communicatio n.
On April 3rd of this year a fire broke out in the Lodge Room,
destroying the furnishings and doing major damage to the building.
Courageous efforts by brethren present saved the records in the Lodge
and some of the smaller pieces of paraphernalia. On the following day
the Worshipful Master, Louis L. Cunningham, organized a committee to
deal with the emergency. A member of the Lodge donated the use of
a market building without charge; a carpenter member and others put
up partitions, where needed, rugs and drapes were brought in from
surrounding homes, and by April 6th, three days after the fire, the Lodge
held its regular Stated Meeting in a suitably tiled, comfortable, and
adequate temporary Lodge Room. This is only one example of the
spirit shown of overcoming obstacles during the formation of new
Lodges and should serve as an example to all of our Lodges.
The •Committee on Charters unanimously recommends that charters
be granted and numbers assigned to the six petitioning Lodges as follows:

208

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Yucca Valley Lodge No. 802 at Yucca Valley, in the county of San
Bernardino.
The G~bilan Lodge No. 803 at Salinas. in the county of Monterey.
Moreno Valley Lodge No. 804 at Sunnymead, in the county of
Riverside.
Camellia Lodge No. 805 at Temple City, in the county of Los Angeles.
Simi Valley Lodge No. 806 at Simi, in the county of Ventura.
Conejo Valley Lodge No. 807 at Thousand Oaks, in the county of
Ventura.
Scepter Lodge U. D. at West Sacramento, in Yolo C~unty, v:as
instituted on July 14, 1961. The Lodge, having been under d1spensabo~
such a short time, did not petition for a charter but requests that t.he1r
dispensation be continued for the ensuing Masonic Year. The Co.mm1ttee
unanimously concurs in this request and recommends that the d1spensa~
tion be continued.
With reference to that portion of the Report of the Grand Secretary
relating to consolidation of Bethlehem Lodge No. 453 and Crocker
Lodge No. 454, the Lodge to be known as Crocker Lodge No. 454 located at Daly City, your Committee unanimously moves that the requested
authority to properly endorse these charters be granted.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
KENNETH R. FoRD
ROBERT A. SMITH
PHILIP B. STONE
WAYNE E. BURK
EUGENE N. DRISKILL
BROWN ZARLEY
KENNETH L. HEMPHILL
HAROLD SIMON
JoHN CURTIS
MARTIN ORTLIEB

By separate actions the portion of the report granti.ng charters and
continuing a dispensation was adopted, as was that portion of the report
approving the endorsement of the charters of Bethlehem Lodge No. 453
and Crocker Lodge No. 454.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

209

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your committee has completed the publication of volume 8 of California Freemason and has culled the proceedings and publications of
sister Grand Lodges for information of interest to California Masons.
The format of a 48-page lithographed 6-inch by 9-inch magazine
with the flrst eight pages and last eight pages in two colors has been
continued. There is a liberal use of pictures.
The California Freemason is an official publication but its articles
do not necessarily present the opinion of Grand Lodge. It is attempted to
maintain sound Masonic standards and to give our readers Masonic
information and inspiration. Articles which are educational. informative, stimulating and sometimes provocative are presented.
Nearly everyone connected with California Masonry agrees that
our publication should be in the hands of every member in the state.
The advantage of such a plan would be that members not in close touch
of filieir lodges would be exposed to Freemasonry. The only thing
which prevents our Grand Lodge joining the company of New York,
Virginia, Oklahoma and other states which have 'a "house organ" for
their membership is the cost, which would be less than 50 cents a
member.
This is a question for Grand Lodge and not one for your committee. It will be noted, however, in the financial report which follows
that over one...third of our expenses is the recurring of and renewing
subscriptions.
If and when Grand Lodge decides to grasp the opportunity of
reaching all of its members the committee should be given a reasonable
time to make the change~over. For example, if the present session of
Grand Lodge should make such a decision it would be well to start the
operation of the plan for volume 10 for the year 1963. The committee
as individuals have presented a resolution to this effect.
The number of forward looking Lodges which send the magazines
to their entire membership have increased. This arrangement is that if
a Lodge adopts a resolution so to do, each member, will be mailed the
quarterly and, in January of each year, Grand Lodge will bill the Lodge
at the rate of not to exceed 60 cents for the number of members shown
on its last annual return. Changes in membership during the year do
not affect this charge.
The Lodges now operating under this group plan are, 10, 12, 17,
25. 27,33,44, 55, 57, 60, 68, 78. 79,80,95, 99. 101, 106, 110, 123, 124,
129, 131, 164, 169, 173, 175, 180, 195, 196, 203,205, 207,208, 211, 218,
220,228,231,233,236,240,253,254,255,259,262. 266, 271,273,277,

211

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

281,285,293,295, 300, 303, 306, 309,314,317, 318. 320, 321, 328, 329,
333, 334,338,339,354,359,361,3 62,372, 383, 384,385. 391, 393, 395,
402,408,409.421,425,427, 428,436,453,458,459,465, 469,473, 493,
504,519,524,531,532,546,5 52, 555,561. 573, 580, 582, 585, 586, 587,
589, 595, 596. 598,611, 617,620, 622, 635, 636,637, 644,645,650, 656,
658, 659, 666, 677, 680, 687, 689, 692, 693, 702, 707, 710, 714, 717, 719,
720, 722, 731 , 732, 735, 739, 742, 746, 750, 751, 758, 765, 766, 767, 769,
770, 771 , 772, 774, 776, 777, 779, 780, 782, 783, 786, 790, 791, 794, 800,
801, Yucca Valley UD, TheGabilan UD, Moreno Valley UD.
The 175 Lodges have a memberS'hip of 45,795.
As of June 30, 1961, there were 35,325 regular subscribers at the
rate of $1.00 per year (reduced 25 cents per year after the first for

The accountants observe that our reserve for unexpired subscriptions should be from $41,100.00 to $51,325.00. Your Committee thanks
the Freemasons of California for their support and for the widespread
praise, commendation and appreciation they have expressed. Again
we are proud to inform you that we continue to be ('.Ommended and
praised in jurisdictions throughout the world.
We have used no part of our appropriation during the past three
years so none will be necessary in the budget for the next year.
Respectfully submitted,
NEWCOMB CoNDEE
GEORGE w. BURCH, JR.
JOHN WuLLSCHLEGER
MAURICE B. Ross
RALPH T. MERRIAM
WILLIAM R. MACE
ROBERT w. 0BLATH
Referred to Committee on Finance.

210

additional years paid in ,a dvance).
This is our financial report for the year ending June 30, 1961.
EXPENDITURES
CosT OP OBTAINING SuBSCRIPTIONS:
Printing ·············-·-·--·····-·······--·--------···$ 2, 131. 79
Postage ·-············································ 2,331.62
Clerical .............................................. 8,920.68
Address Plates .................................. 4,528.28
CosT OP PRODUCING MAGAZINES:
983.60
Editorial expense ---·-·························
360.77
Pictures and art work ..................... .
Printing ............................................. . 30,784.86
-

---

CosT OP D1sTRIBUTION:
Mailing expense ................................
Postage ..............................................

2,267 .13
1,127.91

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE
ON MASONIC EDUCATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

$17,919.37

32,129.23

3,395.04
$53,436.84

SOURCES OP PAYMENT:
Collected from Lodge subscription .. $27,812.65
Collected from individual
subs('.ribers .................................... 40,659.01

$68.471.66
This leaves an excess of cash received of $15,034.82. We ask that
the Finance Committee follow its practice of placing this excess cash
in the reserve for unexpired subscriptions. When this amount is added
to the amount now in said reserve fund of $20,133.40 the total reserve
held will be $35,168.20. Until our reserve is brought up to par there
exists a hidden contingent liability for the difference.

Your special committee on Masonic Education reports as follows:
First, the committee wishes to pay tribute to our Grand Master, the
Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, for his inspiration, his unfailing
assistance, his guidance and leadership during the past year, without
which this committee could not have accomplished its desired goals.
Each one of us is grateful to him for our appointment to the Education
Committee and the opportunity to serve this Grand Lodge and the
Masons of California.
As was indicated in the last Report, a seminar on Masonic Education was held in this Memorial Temple on the Tuesday evening of the
1960 Grand Lodge communication. The Report, submitted prior to the
seminar, could not include any statistics. For the record, we include
them here although it was a function of the previous committee. From
the standpoint of attendance, and as could be interpreted, interest,
the seminar was the best attended of any such event to date. Twelve
hundred and fifty-nine brothers registered for the classroom session
and attended the second half, general session. These were augmented
by an estimated additional three hundred for the general session who
had not registered but who apparently participated only in that portion
of the evening's program. The Education Committee believes that so
much interest in Masonic education has been generated by the six seminars held to date as to warrant scheduling such as an evening for each
forthcoming communication and we so recommend.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

212

213

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Since January of this year, the committee, together with the four
Research Lodges has been planning for the seminar to be held in this
building on this Tuesday, September 26, starting at 7 o'clock P.M.
Two 45~minute classroom sessions will be held, in meeting rooms,
in the main auditorium and the exhibition hall, below. featuring five
timely subjects. Two subjects, following one another, will be presented
in the main auditorium. These will not be repeated. The three others,
held in the smaller rooms, will be repeated at 7:45 P.M., so as to accom·
modate those attending other classes during the previous period. The
general session will commence at 8:30 P.M., in the main auditorium.
During the general session no other classes will be held. Our speakers
for the general session will be the Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis,
Past Grand Lecturer, speaking on the subject, "What May I Tell My
Non-Masonic Friends About Masonry?" and the Worshipful Ted
Meriam, Past Grand Orator, who will present a subject with which
he is very familiar, "The Local Lodge and Public Relations." Subjects
and personnel for the classroom session may be found in the seminar
programs distributed in the registration area.
This year the committee did not publish the booklets or papers
formerly called "Research Notes," because we felt that interest in
them was not sufficient to warrant the expense involved. If the Lodges
would like to see material of this type distributed, either on a monthly
or an occasional basis, we suggest that you convey your ideas on the
matter to the incoming Chairman of the Education Committee. He will
appreciate your guidance •a nd quite probably be able to help in ob~
taining the kind of material you seek.
The major work of the committee this year was the publication in
February of the booklet entitled, "A Brochure Comprising Three Plans
for Masonic Education." Most of the work in gathering material and
proving it as workable for Masonic Lodges, was done by the previous
committee during 1960, but it could not be finished in time for publication prior to the last Grand Lodge communication. The booklet is in·
tended to be a helpful guide in the institution and conduct of educational programs within the Lodges, it being the committee's conviction that most of the effort on Masonic education will have to come
from within the respective Lodges, by their own will and pleasure,
using outside help, including speakers and lecturers, only on special
occasions. By this time it is well recognized throughout the Masonic
world that there is a great deal more to Freemasonry than meets the
eye or can be conveyed during the receiving of a degree. Since everyone agrees to this as fact then it is but a step further to put some plan of
Masonic education into action at the local Lodge level. We believe it
is safe to say that our survival as a craft, as we know it today, depends
on this. We most 'heartily urge Senior and Junior Wardens to make
plans now for a regular course of Masonic education in your Lodge,

if you have not already undertaken this step, or to continue and attempt to improve upon it in the event you have already started. It should
be re~ognized that while one program given once during the year is a
step m the right direction it is not nor should it be the entire effort in
this most important area of Lodge work. For some ideas on this subject,
we recommend that you consult the "Brochure Comprising Three Plans
for Masonic Education." If you do not have a copy, you may obtain
one or more by writing the Grand Secretary's office.
We are again glad to report that the activities of the four Research
Lodges, as in previous years since their inception, continues to inform
to instruct, to stimulate our brethren into seeking the truth. Each
Lodge performs in its own way in a creditable manner. We wish that
time permitted us to detail some phase of the work of each one. California Masonry may indeed be proud of the many consecrated, dedicated brethren who voluntarily contribute time, talents and their personal funds towards the enlightenment of their brethren. As each year
passes, the work done by the brethren of the four Lodges once again
demonstrates the wisdom of this Grand Lodge in bringing them into
existence. The officers of each Lodge have repeatedly shown an interest and a desire to assist the local Lodges by presenting speakers or
panels on a variety of Masonic subjects, or to provide worth-while
papers which the local Lodge Education Chairman may present to his
Lodge.. We once again :emind you that the services of these Lodges
are available for the askmg. When constructing your education program for the coming year, may we suggest that you take advantage of
the services of .one or more of the many talented brothers from the
Research Lodge nearest you or of some interesting papers which a
Lodge may obtain on request. You will find a warm, ready response
and an interest in your education problems.
By way of experiment, the committee this year engaged in a series
of education programs in areas not easily nor comfortably served by
one of the Research Lodges. We wish to comment that without the
kin~ly and generous help and support of the Inspectors, and of the
Assistant Grand Lecturers for each division where we appeared, the
programs could not have been held; in addition to whk:h the efforts of
these brothers greatly contributed towards the success of these "conferences," as we called them. Meetings were held at Santa Maria,
Eureka, Chico, Jackson, Redding, Georgetown and Auburn. Speakers
were provided by the committee and the speakers panel consisted mainly
of committee members wit'h the help of several others, all active and
well known students of Masonry in their own right. All of our speakers
were members of a Research Lodge. The committee itself did nothing
by :Vay of promoting or publicizing the conferences, leaving such promotion to the local Lodges. Those of us who participated unanimously

215

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

feel that this experiment was quite successful. judging by the interest,
enthusiasm and generally good attendance at each conference as well
as unsolicited. laudatory letters in the committee's files. We therefore
recommend to the incoming committee that an education conference of
this nature be repeated in each of the places above mentioned and in
so many other places throughout the jurisdiction as the committee has
time to undertake.
In conclusion, we unanimously recommend to the incoming Grand
Master that the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education be
continued and request that the sum of $2500 be appropriated for its
expense during the coming year.
Respectfully submitted,

During the year 1957, in which Most Worshipful L. Harold Anderson was Grand Master, only one Scholarship was awarded, most of
rhe papers submitted being inadequate. During the year 1958, in whicih
Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson was Grand Master, no Scholarships
were awarded.

214

0. J. WOHLGEMUTH

c.

LEONEL
PANOSH
EUGENE
HOPP
FORREST R. HASSELL
FRANK REINSCH
EDWIN
HAYS, JR.
HENNING
LUEDERS
ALVIE 0. HOLTON

s.

s.

J.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON SCHOLARSIIlPS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
When Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen was Grand Master in
1955 he recommended the creation of a Scholarship Fund whereby two
annual awards of $1,000.00 each would be made by the Grand Master.
one in the North and one in the Sout'h, for the best thesis and dissertation on the subject of Public Schools by graduate students working for
doctoral degrees in the field of education, and he stated tihat among
other benefits this would provide fruitful source material for use in
curricular and comparative studies.
The program was initiated during the year 1956, in which Most
Worshipful Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., was Grand Master, and during that
year announcement of the Scholarship Program was made at the University of California, Stanford University, and the College of the Pacific
in Northern California, and the University of California at Los Angeles,
University of Southern California and The Claremont Graduate Sdhool
in Southern California. Candidates were to submit an essay to the
Public Schools Committee of Grand Lodge on the subject, "The Origin,
Development and Purpose of our Public Schools." During that year
two $1,000.00 Scholarships were awarded.

Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson reported in his message as
Grand Master that "it seemed to be the general feeling that the Scholarship Program was not accomplishing what was intended and it seemed
best to hold up any further scholarship awards" until a study was completed. He also stated in a letter to the Grand Secretary that from his
o:"'n experience with the Scholarship Program for over a two year period, he had the feeling that the Fraternity was not getting out of the
program the results originally hoped for and that none of the papers presented during that period came within shooting distance of the subject
which was presented as tihe basis for the applicant's research. He concluded that no papers Should be asked for during his year as Grand
Master, and that time should be taken to study and evaluate the program and determine whether or not the Fraternity was on the right
course or whether the funds should be used to do the job originally intended in another way. He also requested that Southern California
Research Lodge undertake research into various subjects concerning
the Public School System, both in America and in California, and to
prepare papers on the history, and development of the Public Schools
in America and in California, on what the Public School System has
contributed to the American way of life and on the contributions of the
Masonic Fraternity and its members to the Public School System in
California.
•
Your Committee :has had several meetings, has studied the various
submissions of applicants during the years the program was in operation, 1has had correspondence and conversations with the Dean of the
School of Education at Stanford University and has had a conference
with Dean William A. 1Brownell of the School of Education of the
University of California.
Your Committee finds that the Fraternity has not received from the
program any of the results originally hoped for and also finds that the
program as originally set up did not have the cooperation of the Universities having Graduate Schools in Education. Your Committe also
finds that the various submissions of applicants during the years that
the program was in operation were in general unsatisfactory and left
much to be desired. Your Committee believes that one of the reasons
for the poor submissions while the program was in operation was the
requirement that the applicant had to write a thesis or dissertation on
a subject selected by the Fraternity. Applicants were already engaged in
writing theses for their doctorate degrees involving an original study

216

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

approved by the Dean. Independent theses on a subject selected by the
Fraternity would by their very nature be inadequate because they would
be extracurricular. The Committee therefore believes that the program
should not be used to obtain source material.
The Committee also agrees with Dean William A. Brownell of the
School of Education at the University of California that the .Pr.ogram
should be more limited and the field of applicants should be limited to
candidates for a doctorate degree who are specializing in School Administration and Curriculum Development. Your Committee has assurances that the Schools of Education at Stanford University and the
University of California would cooperate with this type of program.
Aside from financially assisting t'hose who will some day be leade~s
in the teaching profession, the Committee believes that one of the primary objects of the Program should be to disclose to.those persons :Who
will some day be School Administrators and Curriculum Supervisors
the interest of the Fraternity in the Public School System .. Once t~ey
are convinced of the merit of the true philosophy of public education
they can be most effective in achieving the goals ultimately to be re~ched
by such a philosophy. The very nature of their positions should influence the teaching profession as a whole.
your Committee therefore concludes that the program can be made
to serve a useful purpose and that the Fraternity can make a definite
contribution to t'he Public School System by continuing the program.
With this in mind, your Committee makes the following specific recommendations:
1. The field of applicants should be limited to candidates ~o~ a d~c­
tor' s degree who are specializing in the field of School Adm1mstrabon
or Curriculum Development.
2. Applicants must be enrolled in. the ~raduate. Sch~ol~ of Education at Stanford University or the University of Cahforma m Northe~
California or the University of California at Los Angeles or the Uruversity of Southern California in Southern Califo~nia .(note: Clar~­
mont College would also be eligible in Southe~ C~hfor~a, but there is
no third university or college in Northern Cabforma ihavm~ a school ~f
education concentrating on awarding doctorates in education). Applicants must pursue a full-time program of doctoral study as defined and
approved by the School of Education attended.
All academic qualifications must be certified by the Dean of the
School of Education of the particular university.
3 Proper publicity should be circulated in the aforementioned
Scho~ls of Education so that graduate students who are qualified may
have ample opportunity to be apprised of the Program.
4. An application form should be printed and made availabl~ to
the aforementioned Schools of Education. A single-spaced, typewritten

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

217

statement on the topic "Public Schools in a Democracy-Their Place
in American Society" should be included as part of the application.
The application should be substantially in the form attached to the report of this Committee as presented to the 1960 Annual Communication
and marked Exhibit B.
5. .Each applicant shall cause to be submitted to the Grand Lodge
Committee on Scholarships letters of recommendation from three ( 3 )
individuals having personal knowledge of his ability and character, with
emphasis on the potentialities of the applicant in the field of education.
. 6. Emphasis should be placed on a personal interview of the applicants. Assurances have been given by Dean Brownell of the School
of Education at the University of California that the Dean's office would
assist in screening the list so that it could be narrowed to five or six.
Similar assistance could be obtained from the Deans of the other Schools
of Education involved in the Program.
7. The Grand Master should appoint a Committee to administer
the program, consisting of educators and laymen. There are in the
Fraternity many prominent members of the teaching profession whose
services would be valuable on such a Committee. The Committee
should be divided into two subcommittees, one whose members are
from Northern California and the other whose members are from
Southern California. The Committee would give publicity to the Program, forward the application forms to the various Schools of Education, personally interview a selected field of applicants on a given day
and recommend to the Grand Master the granting of two awards of
$1,000.00 each, one from the Northern Schools of Education and one
from the Southern Schools of Education. It is suggested that in the
personal interview the applicant be interrogated on a variety of subjects and that each applicant be told of the interest of the Fraternity in
the Public School System.
Although financial need should not play a primary part in making
the award, it should be considered by the Committee and may be used
as one factor among others to enable the Committee to make its choice.
8. Announcements of the scholarships should be made not later
than December 1: applications should be on file with Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, 1111 California Street, San Francisco, California, not later than February 1: awards should be announced on or
about April 15.
9. After the awards are announced the Committee should see that
proper publicity is given to the making of the awards toward the end
that the public may know of our efforts in making a concrete contribution toward the future of our Public School System.

219

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

10. The Committee shall from time to time communicate with
recipients of the awards. ascertain their progress in Graduate Study.
ascertain where they are employed after Graduate Study is completed.
and also ascertain how the award money was in fact used.
Respectfully submitted,

. In .order to bring our records up-to-date on June 5, 1961, ·a questionnaire was mailed to 36 Lodges, requesting current information as
to the . condition of the Masonic cemeteries under their jurisdiction.
These .mcl~de~ cemete.ries Jisted under Group No. 1 of the Grand Lodge
of Cahforma, Masomc Cemeteries Owned and Operated by California
M~sonic ~odges," and Group II. "Cemeteries Owned and Operated
J01ntly with Some Other Fraternal Organizations, usually the Independent Order of Odd Fellows."
On June 22, 1961, 75% of the questionnaires had been returned
from which we were able to learn ~he following information:
'
Lodges No Longer Operating a Cemetery........ 30%
Cemeteries Being Maintained by Brethren
on a Clean Up Basis .................................... 61 %
Cemeteries Maintained by Perpetual Care ........ 39%
Cemeteries Currently Operated in Conjunction
with Another Fraternal Organization ........ 18%
Cemetery Maintenance by Community............ 4%
. . Two of the cemeteries reported on are operated and maintained
JOmtly by fl.ve Lodges in the Sacramento area.
I.t was most gratifying to learn from these reports that with the exception of one cemetery, the odiers were considered by the Lodges to
be maintained in good or excellent condition.
Many of the Lodges report conditions ·and improvements which have
been ~ade during the past several years. Many of these improvements
are bemg planned over a period of several years. We therefore feel
that t~e Lodgas ~re reacting favorably to the interest shown by this
Committee to seemg that all cemeteries that are associated with the
Masonic Lodges are reflecting our high standards.
. S~nce. the .Grand Master has approved and encouraged our efforts
m this di~ectlon, and we hopefully assume that our incoming Grand
Master will approve the continued investigation on the basis that we
have submitted it, may we also recommend ~hat this policy be carried
out ?~ the Committee since it tends to stimulate the Lodges who have a
realistic responsibility in owning cemeteries to "keep their house in
order."
May we also suggest or recommend that the two cemeteries owned
by the Grand Lodge, consisting of the one in Fiddletown and the one
in Columbia, be set up as examples for the constituent Lodges to follow.
. To this end, the Committee recommends that a program of restoration and rehabilitation be instituted at the before mentioned properties:
( 1 ) At Fiddletown we fl.nd that this cemetery was originally deeded
to St. M.ark's Lodge No. 85. in 1871. 'Dhe charter of that Lodge was
revoked m ~ 894. Because of this situation, Grand Lodge was obligated
to assume title. Many of the markers have disappeared due to fl.re and

218

SAMUEL I. JACOBS
GEORGE D. GAVIN
WARD M. NICHOLS

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC CEMETERIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The year of 1960 has been ·a somewhat frustrating year for the
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries due to the fact that we didn't have
any laws or legislation to support our recommendations or studies.
Nevertheless, we felt that in order to justify our existence we should
continue to do a good job of public relations for the Grand Lodge in
continuing our investigations wit'h regard to upkeep and maintenance
of our cemeteries, so they will reflect credit to the Masonic fraternity.
During this period we had the pleasure of meeting with our Grand
Master, Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, who was kind enough to
give me generously of his busy and valuable schedule. He suggested
that although no legislation existed to support our activities, we could
proceed under Section 204 of the Masonic Code which states in part,
"It shall be the duty of said committee to investigate and report to the
Grand Master t'he status and condition of Masonic Cemeteries and
Masonic plots in cemeteries in this jurisdi:ction, and to perform such
other duties relating to the subject as the Grand Master may direct."
Therefore. while our efforts are not authorized by formal legislation,
we have authority through the office of the Grand Master and Section
204, consequently our activities have been pursued at the pleasure of
the Grand Master.
Throughout the year it has been interesting to note that we have
been contacted by several corporations who are attempting to establish
new cemeteries containing Masonic plots. In making recommendations
to these organizations, we have endeavored to ·advise them of the requirements and procedures we would like to have observed in our State
with regard to upkeep and appearance and advocating at all times perpetual care. We also endeavor to see that the ·commercial aspect is
retained at a minimum. With reference to this commercialism, we have
advised corporations attempting to capitalize on the Masonic fraternity
in their cemetery operation that we would not tolerate this attitude.

220

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

vandalism, and should be restored. At the instigation of P.G.M. L.
Harold Anderson, after viewing the deplorable condition of this cemetery, this Committee was formed to remedy this and similar situations.
After investigation we recommend the following:
(a) Enclose section with strong chain link fence with iron posts
and gate.
( b ) Clean and restore headstones.
( c) Trim out superfluous brush and shrubs.
For the above, we request the sum of $500.
- ( 2) At Columbia, the property is in very bad g.hape. It is covered
by high brush, undergrowth and trees. Many of the headstones are
broken or out of plumb, and in some ,cases missing altogether. Some
curbs around the graves are sinking and cracking, and generally the
condition is a disgrace to the Fraternity, and should be corrected im·
mediately.
As is well known, the old town of Columbia is now a State Park,
and several buildings, including the schoolhouse, have been restored.
The Grand Lodge of California, at the cost of many t:housands of dollars, has rebuilt the old Masonic Temple in Columbia to its original
condition, and it is being frequently used by California Lodges on
visitations for the conferring of degrees. It would seem only reasonable
that the Grand Lodge should likewise restore the Masonic Cemetery to
a presentable condition. After investigation, we recommend the expenditure of $3000 to be used as follows:
(a) Surround Masonic section with a wood rail fence similar to
the original. or use a strong link fence with proper gates.
(b) Clean and restore head stones.
( c) Fill in sunken graves.
( d) Repair curbing around graves.
( e) Trim out brush and unwanted undergrowth.
( f) Cover some graves that have curbing with gravel.
( g) Remove one old oak tree completely and generally trim all
ot!her trees.
('h) Straighten up leaning head stones and set them in cement.
These recommendations have nothing to do with future upkeep, but
should put these properties into condition so that future maintainence
should be comparatively easy. We also would appreciate the continuance of our present appropriation of $275 for the general use of the
Committee.
In closing, this Committee would like to express its appreciation to
our Grand Master, who dedicated this year to the Master Mason and
in doing so reflected his consideration and feeling towards this Committee and its work. The Committee would also like to express its
thanks to the Inspectors, the Secretaries, as well as the Grand Secretary's

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

221

office and staff for their courtesy. cooperation and assistance. We are
also proud of the confidence shown in this Committee's activities, which
was expressed at the time the entire Committee was reappointed for
a new term.
Respectfully submitted,
SAMUEL E. LEDDEL
HAROLD C. SCHRODER
FREDERICK H. CHAPMAN
THOMAS EDWARDS
BASIL R. GILLETT

The report was adopted and the part referring to finance was referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
With the approval by Grand Lodge of the necessary funds this
year, your library was born. The space on the second floor of the
Masonic Memorial Temple in San Francisco, which had been set aside
for a library and museum, now has one complete wall of shelving filled
with more than 2000 Masonic volumes. A .filing cabinet and an exhibit
case contain many valuable and historical items for the museum.
The library has been extremely fortunate this year in having as its
first librarian Brother William McMaster, a member of Corvallis Lodge,
Corvallis, Ore~on, who has given freely of his services in cataloging and
placing on the shelves the several hundred Masonic books received by
the library this year. Brother McMaster has enabled the Library Commission to keep your Grand Lodge library and museum open every
Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. It is our sincere hope that with
additional support this coming year, the library may be kept open at
least five days a week. The indexing and cataloging of the books would
have been an almost insurmountable task, had it not been for the
scholarly assistance of Brother Paul Kruse, a member of Revelation
Lodge No. 180, Denver, Colorado, and presently librarian of Golden
Gate College. San Francisco.
It was the earnest wish of our Grand Master M.W. Alfred F.
Breslauer that our California Grand Lodge Library perform two functions which would make the library invaluable to Masons throughout our
jurisdiction. The first injunction from the Grand Master was to gather
all possible Masonic Californiana. Your commission wishes to express
its gratitude to the many lodges which provided histories. valuable documents. centennial volumes, and other materials which shall be preserved
in the Grand Lodge Library and when added to the P.G.M. Whitsell

222

PROCEED INGS OF THE

collection of Californ ia Masoni c history documents will provide scholars
and student s with an extraord inarily fine foundation. The second in~
junction given by the Grand Master was t'hat a circulating library be
established, which would provide reading lists and books, to be mailed
to Master .Masons anywhe re in California, at no charge to them other
than the few cents return postage . Your Commission assembled and
had printed cards for book request s and stickers for book-mailing, and
mailing 1envelopes. We are indebte d to Brother Wende ll Walker , Librarian of the Grand Lodge of New York, and to the Librarians of the
Grand Lodge of Pennsy lvania and the Grand Lodge of Iowa for information and assistan ce in establishing techniques to make the Masoni c
volumes in our library most easily available to all of the brethren . The
Commission was fortuna te to have as one of its members Brother William H. Scott, P.M .. Secreta ry of Fairmo unt Lodge No. 435, who undertook the task of maintaining the records and mailing the books to
the brethre n requesting them. Reques ts for books have been received
from Lodges through out the State and from chairmen of education committees in the Lodges, from secretaries, Worshi pful Masters , and others.
The Committee hopes t'hat as the availability of this service becomes
more widely known, more books will be circulated. More than 1000
Masoni c books are available for a three~week loan (subjec t to renewa l)
merely by sending a request on a card or letter to the Californ ia Grand
Lodge Library and Museum , 1111 Californ ia Street, San Francis co 8.
In addition, to those who are seeking information on the subject of their
interest , the Library Commission has prepare d reading lists, with the
names of several standar d volumes, available for loan, on each such
subject. Reques ts for books should contain the lodge name and number
of the brother making the request and fhe address to which the book
is to be sent.
In keeping with the desire to acquire the finest possible collection of
Califor nia Masoni c history for our Grand Lodge library, your Commission, with the assistan ce of the History Committee, was able to
purchas e this year a small volume which may be said to be the cornerstone of our library. It is titled "Consti tution of the Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepte d Masons for the State of Californ ia and Minute s
of the Proceed ings of the Conven tion to Constit ute said Lodge." San
Francis co: Journal of Commerce Print, 1850. It will be remembered
that t'he founding convention for the Grand Lodge of Califor nia took
place April 17, to April 19, 1850. It is also known that the Journal of
Commerce office, where this volume was printed, was burned on June
17, 1850. It is therefor e assume d that this volume of minutes was published sometime between April 19 and June 17. Accord ing to V.W.
Alex G. Abell, then Grand Secreta ry of the Grand Lodge of Californ ia,
in the publish ed transact ions dated 1857, "The publish ed proceed ings of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

223

the _Grand Lodge of this State during the earlier years of its existence,
hav~ng been compar atively limited in number, and very few of fhese
having. been preserved, at the Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge in May, A.L. 5856, it was recommended by the present Grand
?ecret~ry that 500 copies of its transact ions from its organiz ation to and
mcludmg the Year 1854 be republished for the uses of the Lodges and
~a~ons of this jurisdiction." Grand Secreta ry Abell reports further
m his stateme nt .that the suggest ion was approve d by the Grand Lodge
but he was reqmred to assemb le and publish the volume at his own expense. He further stated, "The files of the Grand Secreta ry's office
have been thoroug hly searched, and a number of papers, not publish ed
heretofore, have been introdu ced in their proper places. Many grammatical and typogra phical errors have been correcte d, and not a few
changes in form and p'hraseology have been made, but in no case has
there been the least alteration of any fact, opinion or idea present ed in
the records; and the work is now present ed to the Fratern ity in Cali~
fornia with t'he confident belief that in method of arrange ment and
neatnes s of typogra phy it will compare favorab ly with any similar
~asonic public.a ti.on.". The reason for the detail, and interest of your
Library Comm1ss1on is the importa nt discrep ancy noted in the 1850
Ab~ll m.inutes as compar ed with the original volume now safely deposited m our Grand Lodge Library. On Page 15 of the Abell minutes
for 1850, is given the Constit ution of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of
California. Article II is titled, "Rank and Title of Officers and Members." The order of precede nce given here is as we note today, except
that, a~ter Right Worshi pful Junior Grand Warden , appear a Right
W orsh1pful Grand Treasur er and a Right Worshi pful Grand Secreta ry.
In the original volume published within a month of 1850 Conven tion,
the Grand Secreta ry is placed in order of precedence ahead of the Grand
Treasur er. Your Library Commission has not been able to discover the
reason for the Abell change, thus far. Howeve r, since our present Grand
Secreta ry has served this Grand Lodge, not only as Grand Master, but
as Grand Treasur er, perhaps the Abell change in Grand Lodge order of
precede nce will not be too distressing. In keeping with the finest tradi~
tions of Masonr y, other Grand Lodges have donated volumes which
will add immeasurably to our Library. From Brother Harry Carr, Past
Master of Quatuo r Corona ti Lodge of Englan d and Preston ian Lecturer h.~s come the gift of his scholarly book, "Mothe r Lodge Kilwinning
No. 0. From Brother N. B. Spencer, Past Master of United Master s
Lodge, No. 167, the Researc h Lodge of Auckla nd, New Zealand , have
come 25 Masoni c volumes, many of which are out of print and unobtainable. It would be impossible to acknow ledge the many fine gifts
of books to your Grand Lodge library this past year. Notice, however,
must be accorded to WorS'hipful ·B rother Paul Nathan , P.M. and Sec-

PROCEFDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

retary of Pacific Lodge No. 136, San Frandsc o, who, with his Lodge,
has donated a ]arge number of fine vo]umes for the Library. These
vo]umes have been indexed as the Pacific Lodge section. It is hoped
that other lodges, many of whom have collections of books, which are
no 1onger being used, will wish to donate these vo]umes to the Grand
Lodge Library. They may be assured that the vo1umes wiH be avai1ab1e to Masons througho ut the State and wiH be carefully preserve d
and protected .
Many individua] brethren have donated vo]umes to the Jibrary this
past year. A fine coUection was received from Brother WiUiam Minnick
of Seaside Lodge No. 504, Long Beach.
In order to provide a safe repository and to make avai1ab1e many
worthwhi1e papers for Jodge educatio n program s and for persona] reading and study, the Grand Lodge Library has endeavo red to obtain the
publications of the Research Lodges of Ca1ifornia and, in addition, subscribes to the PhiJa]ethes, the proceedings of Quatuor Coronati Lodge
in London, of the America n Lodge of Research in New York, of the
Manitob a Grand Lodge pub1ication, of the Iowa Lodge of Research, of
the United Masters Lodge of Research in New Zea]and.
A beautifu] bookp]ate for the Grand Lodge Library was designed by
Brother R. S. Dogge this year and after approva] by the Grand Master,
has been adopted as the officia] Grand Lodge bookp1ate. A photogra ph
of this bookp]ate appeared in the Fall issue of the Ca1ifornia Freemason. It provides a space for the insertion of the name of the donor
of any vo]ume.
In considering additiona ] museum cases and ex'hibit space, the
Library Commission must express its indebted ness to V.W. Edward H.
Siems, P.G.M .. the Grand Secretary , for his fine suggestions. Your
Commission wou]d recommend that a large, perhaps 15' x 12' map of
the State of CaJifornia be p]aced on the tall stairway marb]e wan adjacent to the Jibrary. On this there can be marked the ]ocation of all of
the Jodges of the State. The exhibit cases, which wou]d be Jocated in the
adjacent hanway, cou]d contain materia]s and pictures of unusua] 1odges
and their interiors and other historica] memorabi1ia now in the possession
of the Library Commission. It is fe1t that this map and Jodge ]ocation
wan wou]d add considerab]y to the apprecia tion of Masonry in CaJifornia.
Your Library Commission fee1s, a]so, that it can perform additiona ]
service by preparin g, in conjunction with the Masonic Educatio n Committee, perhaps, reading Jists or reading courses for various segments of
Masonry . There might be a Course for Beginners in Masonic reading,
a Course for New]y Raised Master Masons, an Advance d Reading
Course, a Masonic Recreationa] Course, a Senior Warden 's Course
and perhaps a Master's or Past Master's course. The Jist of books in

the course cou]d be sent to the brother requestin g them or, in the case
of the new]y raised Master Mason, automati cany suppJied to him. Each
book in turn wou]d be mai1ed to him as he returned the previous one
after reading it.
Our Grand Master sets aside each year a number of special weeks.
This Y,ear, for examp]e, there has been a DeMo1ay week, a Pub1ic
Schoo] s week, a Masonic Homes Endowm ent month, a Constitu tion
Observa nce month. The Library Commission wou]d Jike to issue a Jist
of bo.oks to be pub1icized in conjunction with each of these specia]
occasions so that those Master Masons intereste d in furtherin g their
know]edge regardin g these great Masonic events cou]d do so.
In order to continue the gradua] growth and expansion of your
Grand Lodge Library the fonowing budget has been prepared :

224

225

CAPITAL EXPENSES (non-rec urring)
She1ving (North and East wans) ···············-··-$990
Typewri ter ........................................................ 150
How1an d-Garber mode] reconstruction of
So1oman's Temp1e........................................ 105
Exhibit Case ...................................................... 400

$1,645

OPERATING EXPENSE, 1961-1962
.......................................... $500
Expense
Librarian s'
Postage .............................................................. 50
Library of Congres s Cards................................ 75
Subscriptions to Research pub1ications............ 50
Statione ry and Supplies.................................... 30
Bookbinding and repairs.................................... 100
Book purchase s .................................................. 250

$1,055
$2,700

The Library Commission therefore recommends to the Grand Lodge
the provision of an appropri ation in the amount of $2,700.00 for the
purposes indicated above. The Commission wishes to express its gratitude and appreciation to Most Worship fu] AJfred F. Bres]auer, for
the privi1ege and p]easure of serving on this Commission and for his
inva]uab]e guidance and direction, and to Most W orshipfu] Edward
H. Siems P.G.M. and Grand Secretar y and to our Assistan t Grand
Secretary , Henry D. 01iphant , and to their staff for their unfai1ing good
counseJ, courtesy and cooperation.
The Commission wou]d Jike to dose by quoting from Masonry in
Manitob a tit1ed, "Using the Library" : Despite what any educationa]
theorist may say, one cannot grow up to be educated without wide

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

reading. Things learned by word of mouth alone tend to be th~n and
transitory. No, the spoken word is a fleeting shadow. It will not
stay put to be mastered. Sound has the habit of floating in one ear
and out the other without so much as dropping anchor for a short
stay. Only the written word gives students, and others, the solid back~
ground that underlies all real culture. So it is in Freemasonry. The
written word provides the genuine basis upon which we may under~
stand the spoken word of the ceremony and will lead the solid reader
on the road to practical brotherhood.
The deeper and more abiding rewards of literature are hard to co~e
by. Reading is work. Even in its lightest form it demands s~me dis~
cipline and investment of self. But it is this self~investment which. over
the long haul. pays off in dividends to the mind.
Before making a beeline to the bookstore or to the shelves of your
Masonic library, let us be sure that we fully understand what we mean
by "reading."
You can get helpful assistance, if that is what you need, by com~
municating with your Grand Lodge Library.
Respectfully submitted,
EUGENE S. HoPP
DAVID R. LANE
ROBERT H. BURROWS
ALEXANDER HORNE
WILLIAM H. ScoTT

Referred to Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

227

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Credentials submits the following report cover~
ing the 112th Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
First, we desire to express our appreciation for the assistance and
cooperation given us by the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand
Secretary and their staffs as well as that of the Building Manager and
the Grand Tiler; without this cooperation our chore would have
been more difficult.
The committee desires to express its appreciation to Brother William
T. Corbusier, Executive Secretary of the Long Beach Masonic Board
of Relief. For the past several years Brother Bill has volunteered to
and has registered the Inspectors during their school of instruction.
Also to Brother Kermit E. Niebuhr, Secretary Oak Plains Lodge No.
789, for assisting in registering the Master Masons.
We respectfully report:
That of the 694 Chartered Lodges 684 were represented. Seven of
the seven Lodges under dispensation are represented. The total registra~
tion is made up as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers............................................................................ 27
Past ·Grand Masters.............................................................................. 13
Past Grand Officers..............................................................................
1
Officers and Representatives ................................................................ 1446
Past Masters and Inspectors ------------------------------------------------------------ 168
Past Masters and Committeemen........................................................ 127
Past Masters and Secretaries................................................................ 178
Past Masters ..:....................................................................................... 683
Secretaries ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 70
Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions..................................................
7
Grand Secretaries from other Jurisdictions..........................................
2
Grand Officers and Past Masters of other Jurisdictions
(Including 6 Past Grand Masters)-----------------------------------------------9
Special Guests........................................................................................
5
TOTAL ..........................................................................................2736
In addition, there were 526 Master Masons visiting Grand Lodge.... 526
GRAND TOTAL.............................................................. :...........3262
Respectfully submitted,
THOS. F. MASON
DoN E. BERRY
EMIL
TREFTS
JAMES K. WILSON
JESSE M. FEW
JosEPH RoBRECHT, JR.

w.

228

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 1 l 2th Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master, or in his
absence the ranking Warden, or in the absence of the Master and
Wardens, the duly elected representative: each Inspector, provided he
is reported present on the certificate filed with the Committee on Pay
of Members, by the Grand Lecturer: Past Grand Masters, Officers of
the Grand Lodge, Chairmen of Committees enumerated in Section 192
of the California Masonic Code: members of the foUowing Committees:
Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes, Grievances, Finance,
Credentials, Pay of Members, Charters, By-Laws, Correspondence,
Lodge Financing, and Code Commission, who are actually in attendance
at Grand Lodge. and who comply with aU provisions as noted in Section 176 of the California Masonic Code.
Compensation of members from the State of California has been computed on the basis of twice the one-way first class railroad fare, plus
PuUman sleeper, when required. Compensation for the representatives
from the State of Hawaii is figured on the basis of the round-trip flrst
class air rate. No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, or where the prescribed compensation
does not exceed $1.00.
Transportation rates have been computed from all points in Calif~r­
nia and Hawaii to San Francisco. The payroll has been checked with
the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials, and the amounts required to meet the transportation costs for the
1961 Communication are as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers.......................................... $ 968.57
409.24
Past Grand Masters ........................................... .
6,581.37
.
..........................
Inspectors .................................
Committees .......................................................... 1,621.64
Representatives of Lodges................................ .. 25,884.17

-----

TOT AL ........................................................ $35,464.99
Checks will be ready for distribution at the Registration Desk Friday
morning, immediately following the election of the Junior Gr~d
Warden. Brethren, if you are the Master, or Warden, representing
your Lodge, or the elected representative of your Lodge,. die Pay of
Members Committee would like to urge you to please pick up your
mileage Check, thereby saving your Grand Secretary the extra task of
mailing it to your Lodge.
Arrangements have been made so that those who desire to cash

229

their checks may do so at the United California Bank, Fairmont Hotel
Branch, located on the California Street side of the Fairmont Hotel.
Your Grand Lodge Credentials will serve as suitable identification.
Respectfully submitted,
KEITH W. SCHLAEGEL
JOHN V. BACIGALUPI
CHARLES RATKOVICH
RUSSELL J. BRAASCH
MATTHEW M. CODON
GILBERT BENOIT
RICHARD LEROY STEPHENSON

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN TEMPLE ASSOCIATION AND
CONSTITUENT LODGE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Y ~ur Committee on Relationship between Temple Association and
Constituent Lodge was appointed in accordance with action of the
1960 Communication of Grand Lodge adopting a recommendation of
the Committee on Jurisprudence regarding Decision No. 5 of Grand
Master Shell.

~e Com~ittee has made a preliminary investigation of the problems involved in the re1ationship between the Temple Associations and
the co~s~ituent Lodges and at its recommendation a survey of Temple
Associations was made by means of a questionnaire mailed by the
Grand Master on May 23, 1961.
The scope of the work of the Committee became so broad and invol.ved th~t the Committee is unable at rliis time to present a statement
of its findings or to make specific recommendations.
The Committee is of the opinion that the subject is of great importance to many of the Lodges in this jurisdiction and recommends that
either a new special committee be appointed or that some present Grand
Lodge Committee be given the responsibility to complete the work.
Respectfully submitted,
JAY ALBERT ROBINSON
W. STANLEY DAVIS
DAVID WRIGHT

230

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON GRA ND LODGE

TITL E

To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
rnia:
This Comm ittee was asked to study the propr iety
and feasibility
of the proposal made to the 1960 Annu al Communica
tion that the
title of this Grand Lodge be dhanged by addin g theret
o the word s
"and Hawa ii."
We have met with the repres entati ves of the Lodge s in
the Hawa iian
Island s and they have recommended that the name of
the Grand Lodg e
be not chang ed.
Your committee concu rs with the recommendations of
the represen~
tative s of the Lodges in Hawa ii. We theref ore move
that the title of
this Gran d Lodge be not Changed.
Respe ctfull y submitted,
LEO E. ANDE RSON
DONA LD G. CAMP BELL
JOHN F. PORTE R
ARTH UR M. WARR EN
MA URI CE B. Ross

Adop ted

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON TAX ATIO N
To the Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
rnia:
Recen t sessions of the Cong ress and the Califo rnia legisl
ature have
made substa ntial chang es in the payro ll tax laws which
apply to our
variou s Maso nic organ izatio ns. Briefly. chang es were
made in both the
tax rates and wage bases . In addition, chang es have
been made in the
metho d for determining wheth er or not a Lodge is
subje ct to these
variou s payro ll taxes.
Heret ofore , the repor t of the Taxat ion Comm ittee has
been limited
to brief discussions with respe ct to the variou s payro
ll taxes to which
Lodge s may be subject. In respo nse to several reque
sts, we are ex~
pandi ng our comments with respe ct to payro ll taxes
and are includ~
ing a section on Feder al Admissions Tax. Thos e readin
g this repor t
shoul d bear in mind that at best a repor t of this kind
must be limited
to the bare essentials. Any attem pt to prese nt a more
elabo rate discus~
sion would result in an extrem ely voluminous repor
t, which your
committee considers inadvisable. Howe ver, if more
detailed informa~
tion is desired with respe ct to situat ions not cover ed in
the repor t, your
committee sugge sts that the problem be ref erred to tax
counsel for the
Lodge or to someone who is familiar with the detail
s of the problem.
For reference purposes, there is prese nted the usual sched
ule of tax
rates and wage bases for the various payro ll taxes
which will be in
effect durin g the calen dar year 1962 and therea fter.

231

FEDER AL WITH HOLD ING (INCO ME} TAX

F dAll ~ages paid to employees of a Maso nic Lodge
are subje ct to
. e eral income tax withholding. In order to determine
the amou nt of
income tax which is to be withh eld from wage s paid
to its employees
the Lodge shoul d ask each employee to complete
and file with th~
Secre ta1! of the Lodg e a Feder al Form W ~-4. Empl oyee's
Withh oldin g
Exem ption Certificate. Reference to withh olding tax
tables furnis hed
bhy the Treas ury Depa rtmen t will enabl e the Secre
tary to determ ine
t e amou nt to be withh eld.
FEDER AL INSUR ANCE CONT RIBUT ION (SOCI

AL SECUR ITY}

An employee of a Maso nic Lodge is subje ct to tax for
eadh calen dar
quart er ~uring which he earns $50, or more. The tax rates
show n below
are applicable to the first $4,800 of wage s paid to each
employee durin g
the calen dar year. These rates are to be paid by both
the employer and
the employee.
Calendar Year
Per Cent
~ ~~~ .h.....................................................................

...... 3Ys

1966 !h~~~g~ ~ ~~~ ......................................................
196
g
......................................................

3%
43/s

:hna~~::r:i~;e~~--~~d; b~--th;--C~~-~-~;~-~--i~..the ~e

Furth e:
..
base
and/o r perce ntage rate applicable to the year 1962. The
foregoing wage
base and rates are as amen ded by law chang es appro ved
June 30, 1961.
FEDER AL UNEM PLOY MENT TAX

~eginning Janua ry 1, 1962, Maso nic Lodge
s will be subje ct to this
tax if they employ four or more individuals who are
paid $50 or more
~er ca~endar quarte r. For this purpose, all paid
employees of the Lodge,
~ncludm.g the Secre tary and those who are
performing ritualistic serv~
ices (Tiler , Organ ist, Soloist}, Should be count ed if they
receive $50 or
more per calen dar quarte r.
. Feder al Unem ploym ent Tax at the rates show n below
will be ap~
pltcable to the first $3,000 of wages paid to each emplo
yee durin g t!he
calen dar year. Howe ver, Lodges which are subje ct
to the Califo rnia
Unem ploym ent fosur ance Tax law, and which meet
certai n require~
ments, will be entitle d to a credit up to 2.7% . Only the
employer pays
Feder al Unem ploym ent Tax.
Maxi mum Credit
Tax Rate
for Paym ent of
Tax Rate
Calendar Year
(Gros s)
Calif. Unem p. Ins. Tax
(Net)
1962
3.5%
2.7%
.8%
1963
3.5%
2.7%
.8%
1964 and
3.1%
2.7%
.4%
therea fter

232

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CALIFO RNIA UNEMP LOYME NT INSURA NCE TAX

Beginning Januar y 1, 1962, Mason ic Lolges will be subject to this
emtax if the total wages paid duirng a calend ar quarte r to taxable
is
ee
employ
taxable
a
e
purpos
this
For
ployees are in excess of $100.
r
whethe
er,
Howev
.
quarter
ar
calend
per
more
or'
one who is paid $50
as
d
counte
be
or not elected or appoin ted officials of a Lodge are to
is
taxable employees will depend upon whethe r or not the Lodge
Act.
Tax
t
subjec t to the Federa l Unemp loymen
If the Lodge is not subjec t to rhe Federa l Unemp loymen t Tax Act.
t
then the wages paid to an elected or appoin ted official will be exemp
paid
wages
the
from Califo rnia Unemp loymen t Insuran ce Tax unless
to these officials exceed $100 per month.
If the Lodge is subject to the Federa l Unemp loymen t Tax Act, then
Calithe wages paid to an elected or appoin ted official will be subject to
s
official
these
to
paid
wages
the
if
Tax
nce
Insura
t
loymen
fornia Unemp
amoun t to $50, or more. per calend ar quarter .
For purpos e of this tax, the term "electe d or appoin ted official" will
s.
include any official of the Lodge who is compe nsated for his service
Tiler,
ry,
Secreta
the
are
s
service
their
for
nsated
compe
Those usually
Organ ist, and Soloist.
If the Lodge is subject to Califor nia Unemp loymen t Insuran ce Tax,
paid
the tax rate shown below will be applicable to the first $3,800
er
employ
the
Only
1962.
year
ar
calend
the
to each employee during
pays the tax.
Rates based on employment experience
Gradu ated from .3% to a maximum of 3.0%
State will furnish notification of rate
CALIFO RNIA UNEMP LOYME NT INSURA NCE TAX - SOLVEN

CY FUND

Wages subject to the tax under the headin g "Califo rnia Unemp loy.5%,
ment Insuran ce Tax" will be also subject to this tax at the rate of
tax.
this
pays
er
employ
the
Only
1962.
1,
y
effective Januar
CALIFO RNIA UNEMP LOYME NT INSURA NCE TAX -

EXTEN DED BENEFI TS

30,
This tax has been repeale d effective with wages paid after June
1961.
Rates vary depend ing on State's employment experience gradua ted
level.
from .05% to .2% with reducti on when fund reache s specified
Determ ination of rate will be made by State.
State will bill employer.
CALIFO RNIA DISABI LITY INSURA NCE TAx

The rules regard ing coverage, discussed under the headin g "Caliof the
fornia Unemp loymen t Insuran ce Tax," are the same for this part
it is
and
%
1
is
rate
tax
The
tax.
this
pays
law. Only the employee
ar
calend
the
in
le,
examp
(for
below
shown
bases
wage
applied to the
ee).
employ
each
to
year 1962 the tax will apply to the first $4,100 paid

233

Wage Base
Calendar Year
1962 ........................................................................$4.J 00.00
1963 ········································································ 4,600.00
1964 ········································································ 5,100.00
1965 and thereaf ter .............................................. 5,600.00
FEDERA L ADMISS IONS TAX

Mason ic Lodges are require d to collect this tax when the charge
for admission to social or other events is in excess of $1.00 per admist
sion. The rate is le for each lOc or major fractio n thereof of the amoun
in excess of $1.00 per admission.
of
There are require ments that tickets separa tely state the amoun t
be
method
some
that
used,
not
are
tickets
when
tax being charge d or,
lar
followed to determine the number of person s admitt ed to the particu
event and the amoun t of tax due.
Respec tfully submitted,
ALEXA NDER L. CROCE
JAMES E. HAMM OND
ROBER T R. YORK

The Grand Maste r directed that the report be received and that
a copy thereof be mailed to eacli Lodge.
At 4:05 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30a. m. Wedne sday.

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27. 1961
At 9:30 o'clock Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master
presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday, September
26th, were read and approved.
The Grand Master called attention to the Hawaiian flag as displayed on the platform.
At the request of the Grand Master, W. Eugene P. Jijine, Junior
Grand Steward, explained in detail the history and significance of that
flag.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
MASONIC INFORMATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Before one passes through the sculptured bronze and aluminum
grille gates from the foyer of the magnificent California Masonic
Memorial Temple and enters the carpeted conicourse which leads to
the beautiful 3,200 seat auditorium he reads:
"CALIFORNIA FREEMASONS HONORING THEIR HEROIC DEAD
ERECT THIS TEMPLE
DEDICATED TO FREEMASONRY, VIRTUE, AND UNIVERSAL BENEVOLENCE
THAT THE CAUSE OF FREEDOM FOR WHICH THEY DIED
SHALL EVER BE THEREIN THE SACRED TRUST OF THEIR BRETHREN
AND OF FREEMASONS YET UNBORN"
The foregoing expresses a noble and sincere sentiment. It is consistent with the lofty traditions and majestic philosophy of Freemasonry ·w hich has contributed to public welfare and the progress
of human institutions. Carved in marble are words expressing the belief
of Masons in the dignity and rights of the individual and the firm
conviction of Masons in the brotherhood of man and the fatherhood
of God. The perpetuation of these exalted precepts to "Freemasons yet
unborn," however, requires more than passivity. It demands that the
public know that Masons are not immersed in ritualistic work and not
smug in the belief that the Masonry established by their forbears will
continue in high esteem, but, on the contrary, Masons are actively
contributing their efforts for the betterment of man. It is hoped that
our Fraternity will be joined by millions of "Freemasons yet unborn."
But today there are living millions of eligible persons who would seek
membership if they were aware that Masons do something more than
go to meetings at Lodge Halls and indulge in ceremonies of a ritualistic
or symbolic nature.
Masonry in many parts of the United States, including California,
is concerned about membership in the Craft falling behind the pace

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

235

in the growth of population because of lack of interest. It is true that
our ·i nterest is principally in the quality of members rather than quantity
but members are important in any endeavor. Perhaps one of the reasons
many fine prospective members do not petition for degrees is their
absolute lack of knowledge about the teachings and objectives of
Freemasonry. In the effort to conform strictly to one of the precepts of
our Order that we should not solicit members, we fail in the altruistic
purpose of making known the character of Freemasons and the fundamental philosophy of the Craft in the promotion of the rights and
dignity of all men and the preservation of the institutions of our American form of democratic government.
In the Bible, the book of our faith, we find the following: ". . . for
whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap" (Galatians, ch. 6,
v. 7). If we have failed heretofore in sowing, we should now spread
publicly the seeds of our good works so that men "of moral conduct"
may have a sound basis for petitioning for membership. There are many
examples of men who hesitate to join Freemasonry because they lack
information about our activities but once learning of our purposes,
teachings and objectives they join with eagerness. A favorable impression or image of Masonry is essential in the encouragement of a
prospective member. This impression ofttimes may be given by individual Masons such as illustrated in the article entitled "Impressions
of a New Mason" published in the Winter 1961 issue of California
Freemason (Vol. 8, No. 1). p. 21:

"It was because of the fine character of the two or three
Masons I mave known with some degree of intimacy, and the
high esteem that I have for them that I first sought to become
a Mason. These are men whom I respect immensely, men whose
lives in the communities in which they lived seemed to me to be
highly exemplary. They are modest men; they are men of vision
and foresight who stand out forcefully in the communities in
which they serve; they are men of great and tireless energy. Most
important, they are men with ideals and the courage to move
forward toward the fulfillment of their ideals."
The foregoing presents a good example of the influence of men of
character but through widespread knowledge of the good works of
Masons the beneficent power and attractive virtues of the Fraternity may
receive greater propagation. The dissemination of knowledge in this
manner is commonly a part of a program of "public relations" or "public information." A fair definition of such a program is the translation
with good sense and good taste of the actions and aims of an
individual or organization into terms found understandable and sympathetic to other groups, or the public at large. The way to good
public relations has been summed up simply in the words, ( 1 ) do good,

236

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

to
and ( 2) tell other people about it. Mason ry has many good deeds
aware
made
be
must
public
the
but
facts
but
aise
report - not self-pr
noted
of such deeds. It is well to remember what Samue l Johnson, the
nt
consta
in
hip
friends
his
Englis h author , said: "A man, sir, should keep
repair. "
the
In order to accomplish this purpos e of disseminating information
itComm
the
ittee
Comm
Lodge
Grand
new
a
created
r
Grand Maste
the
in
ed
publish
e
tee on Mason ic Information. In an early messag
the
Spring 1961 issue of the Califor nia Freema son (Vol. 8, No. 2)
Grand Maste r said, p. 54:
"A new Grand Lodge committee has been created t'his year
- the Committee on Mason ic Information. Its objective will be
to provid e the press with data concerning the activities of Grand
Lodge. News items and pictures are prepar ed and distrib uted to
news channels for publication. There is no doubt that good
public relations will result from this service, as the genera l public will have a better opport unity to know something of the
positive approa ch of our Fratern ity. Likewise, the committee will
keep all Maste r Mason s informed about the progra m for th~
year, which is geared to partici pation by all Master Mason s.
the
It is believed that a good beginn ing 'has been made this year in
.
created
was
ttee
accomplishment of the purpos e for which the commi
t
suppor
and
aid
t
earnes
the
Severa l factors contrib uted materially, first,
us
numero
the
ly,
second
,
Master
and diligent effort of the Grand
events in which tfhe Grand Master partici pated of a newsw orthy nature,
niand, third, the cooperation of committee members in various commu
ties of the State.
Among the news releases of the Grand Lodge were the following:
1. Laying of the corner stone at the historic public sohool at
Columbia, Tuolum ne County , Califor nia on Novem ber 5, 1960.
2. Univer sity of Califor nia Mason ic Club homecoming at Berkeley,
Califor nia, on Novem ber 19, 1960.
3. Mason ic honors accord ed Carl F. Wente , directo r and pastpreside nt of Bank of America N. T. & S. A., by Mosaic Lodge
No. 218 of Livermore, California, on Januar y 4, 1961 upon completion of his fiftieth year as a Mason .
4. Reception of the Grand Master of Arizon a and Grand Maste r
of Baja, Califor nia, by the Grand Lodge meeting in El Centro ,
California, on Februa ry 3, 1961, and meeting of the Grand
Master s and Lodge members in Mexicali, Mexico , on Februa ry
4, 1961.
5. Thoma s Starr King celebrations in Washi ngton, D. C., and
San Franci sco on Februa ry 22, 1961, during which the Grand

237

M·aster laid a wreath at the statue of Thoma s Starr King in
the Hall of Columns, Capito l Building, Washi ngton, D. C.
6. Reception of the Grand Maste r by Congre gation Sherith Israel,
San Francis co, Oalifornia, on March 3, 1961.
7. Observ ance of De Molay Week by proclamation of the Grand
Master on March 13-18, 1961.
S. Laying of the corner stone of Cheste r W. Awalt High School
in Mount ain View, Califor nia, on April 8, 1961.
9. Centen nial Celebr ation of Lassen Lodge No. 149, F. & A. M. on
May6, 1961.
10. Corner stone ceremony at the State Capito l in Sacram ento,
California, on May 16, 1961.
l'l. Enterta inment of Pennsy lvania Mason ic Juvenile Court Institute,
established by Juvenile Court Judges members of the Mason ic
Order in Pennsy lvania, in San Franci sco on June 29, 1961.
ed
The foregoing list does not cover the numerous fine articles publish
efforts
the
h
throug
in newspa pers of variou s communities, principally
are
of Blue Lodges or members of the Grand Lodge Committee. They
their
for
nded
comme
be
should
but
too numerous to be mentioned
cooperation and achievement.
the
The hundre ds of column inches of newsp aper print throug hout
ic
Mason
ful
success
of
State of Califor nia attest to the great variety
on
be
will
data
other
and
gs
events during the year. Newsp aper clippin
Grand
display in the Califor nia Mason ic Memor ial Templ e during the
Lodge Communication.
In addition to the foregoing, radio and television and other public
of
media were employed to dissem inate information regard ing many
events.
ant
signific
the
RECOM MENDA TIONS

g
1. That a Mason ic Inform ation Comm ittee be appoin ted for the ensuin
work.
the
e
Mason ic year in order to continu
the relationship in regard to the dissemination of public inform aThat
2.
tion by the Grand Lodge Master s and Warde ns Associations and
Blue Lodges throug hout the State be studied and a practical plan
adeveloped. In this regard , numerous Master s and Warde ns Associ
their
in
ty
publici
le
favorab
d
obtaine
have
Lodges
tions and Blue
not
respective areas, but limits should be defined so that there will
policy
ut
clear-c
a
Thus,
be any conflict with Grand Lodge policy.
exshould be developed, formulated and expres sed. Perhap s the
nt
lishme
accomp
tious
expedi
the
permit
will
year
perience of the past
of this task.
consid eration be given to the publication of literatu re for dis.3.

That

238

PROCEEDING S OF THE

tribution to the public as well as to Masons which may reflect credit
upon the Fraternity. (Two examples of the type of publication indicated published by the Scottish Rite, Southern Jurisdiction, U. S. A.
in 1959 and 1960 are "Our Public Schools" and "The Road to
Freedom.")
CONCLUSION

Of foremost importance in the development of any program of public information is the relationship between Masons and others in the
community. That relationship must be one of friendship and respect.
The words and acts of Masons in daily life must be entirely consistent
with the high precepts learned in the lodgeroom. We should remember
that we convey thoughts with our every word and deed. The communication of our activities through public media such as press, radio
and television merely is our implementation of our relationship in the
community. Our activities, if praiseworth y and for the public good,
should receive favorable comment reflecting honor on our Fraternity.
We learn in our teachings that we seek always the truth. As
American citizens abiding by that principle we can perform a great
service. The public should know generally of our evercontinuing effort
to seek the truth to make men free. This search for truth has a close
relationship with the idealogical battle now raging the world over.
Americans must not come to the disillusioning and disheartening condition expressed by the late Boris Pasternak when he said:
I am lost like a beast in an enclosure,
Somewhere are people, freedom and light.
Behind me is the noise of pursuit,
And there is no way out.
Dark forests by the shore of the lake,
Stump of fallen fir tree,
Here I am cut off from everything,
Whatever shall be is the same to me.
1

But what wicked thing have I done,
I, the murderer and villain?
I, who forced the whole world to cry
Over the beauty of my land.
But, in any case, I am near my grave,
And I believe the time will come
When the spirit of good will conquer
Wickedness and infamy.
Pasternak's hope that truth will prevail shines through his words.
What greater service ,can be performed than in the honest effort to
seek the truth. America must be encouraged to lay hold of the truth

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

239

wherever it may be found so that there will not be in America such a
calamity as pictured by Pasternak.
In our effort to seek the truth others may be encouraged to do
likewise. In this manner we may gain strength that may be our hope
of the future.
Respectfully submitted,
GERALD LEVIN
WILLIAM H. ADAMS
THEODORE MERIAM
WILMER G. BRILL
ELMER P. BROMLEY
HAMILTON HINTZ
CHARLES A. THOMASSET
ROGER EMERY BUTLER
CHARLES
SAVAGE

J.

Before concluding I wish to express sincere appreciation to the
members of the first Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Information
- William H. Adams ( 363), Hamilton Hintz ( 3), Theodore Meriam
(111 ), Charles A. Thomasset (329), Wilmer G. Brill (240). Roger
Emery Butler ( 24 7), Elmer P. Bromley ( 698) and Charles J. Savage
( H2) - for their respective contributions to the accomplishments of
the past year, and above all to Alfred F. Breslauer ( 344), Grand
Master, for his earnest support and encouragement.
GERALD S. LEVIN ( 136)
Chairman

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON
MASONIC 1-IlSTORICAL MONUME NTS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Your special committee on Masonic Historical Monuments reports
as follows:
At the 1960 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, Harmony
Lodge No. 164 requested that it be made a Masonic Historical Monument. Grand Lodge adopted the recommendation of the Policy and
General Purposes Committee, that a special committee be appointed
to study and recommend to Grand Lodge means and procedures by
which Grand Lodge may aid our early California Lodges, when aid
is needed, in the preservation, safekeeping and security of the invaluable Masonic possessions, to the end that they may not be destroyed
or lost and that they may be made available for the enlightenme nt
and benefit of Masons in California for generations to come.
During the year your Committee held meetings with eight of our
early Lodges, located principally in the Mother Lode area, to determine the needs of each particular Lodge, in carrying out the directives
of Grand Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We found that many of the records and items of Masonic historical
interest were being kept in an unsafe manner, and that in the event of
fire they would be lost. After a complete study by >:our co.mmittee, it
determin ed that the need is not so much for financial assistanc e but
for technical advice in providing a safe deposito ry for these invaluable
records to be preserve d for all time to come.
It is therefor the recommendation of this committee that the Grand
Lodge off er its assistanc e in furnishing designs for the installation of
fire proof safes or vaults, to be construc ted by the members of the
Lodges, of sufficient size to contain these records.
It was clearly indicated to your committee that these Lodges are
asking for technical advice and are not soliciting financial aid from
Grand Lodge.
Respectf ully submitted,

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON COLUM BIA TEMPL E

240

JoHN J. O'CONNOR
BALLARD WHITE, JR.
AcTON M. CLEVELAND

REPOR T OF CODE COMM ISSION
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Code Commission is again pleased to report that a cumulative supplement was compiled and published following th~ ~lose of
the last Communication. This supplement covered the dec1s1ons approved and changes made in our laws ip the years 1957 to 1960 inclusive, and plans have been made for the prompt preparat ion and publication of a similar supplem ent which will include the changes made
at the 1961 Communication.
It is requeste d that an appropri ation of $150.00 be made to cover
the anticipat ed travel and other expenses of your Commission.
Respectf ully submitte d,
WILLIAM NANKERVIS, JR.
EDWARD T. KoFORD
EVERETT HOUSER
DAVID P. RUSSELL
LEONARD S. LURIE
Referred to Committee on Finance.

241

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Columbia Temple Committ ee wishes to report that:
Seventee n events were held in the Columbi a Temple during the 19601961 fiscal year and that the events consisted mostly of visiting Lodges
conferring the third degree on their own candidat es which they brought
with them. One event was a visit of Grand Lodge Officers when the
Columbia School was re-dedic ated in the Columbia State Park by
Grand Lodge Officers.
Other items of interest to the brethren were:
The entire inte~or, and the outside wood-wo rk of the Temple
received new paint. Even the basemen t which had never been painted
was given a coat of white paint.
The window shades on the windows have been replaced with
interior wooden shutters, in keeping with the old time atmosphere.
An entire new roof has been put on the Temple.
Signs have been installed on the south side and the west end of
the Temple. These signs read "MASO NIC HALL" since the original
Temple was so designat ed in the old days.
The records consisting of bound volumes and microfilm are in
perfect shape in the vault.
The local members of the committee were saddene d by the death
of Brother Bert Bullock on July 31st. Brother Bullock was the custodian of the Temple for the past two years. He was also a Past Master
of Tuolumn e Lodge No. 8 and a past Inspecto r.
Mr. Buck Nelson, who lives in Columbia, has been appointe d to
replace Brother Bullock as Custodia n of the Temple. At present he is
the Junior Warden of Tuolumn e Lodge No. 8.
Your committee sincerely hopes that the Lodges will continue to
make use of the Columbia Temple in the future. The committee will
endeavo r to make their visit a pleasant one.
Respectf ully submitted,
CECIL B. MATHEWS
ARTHUR E. CLINK
CHESTER M. SMITH
ROBERT A. CRIGLER
ROLAND E. SoRAcco
Referred to Committ ee on Finance.

242

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MASONIC CLUB
UNIVERSIT Y OF CALIFORNI A, BERKELEY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Board of Directors is pleased to submit its Annual Report
for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1961.
Efforts have been redoubled this past year to promote increased
use of the Clubhouse. A special Board Committee, headed by Bro.
Gordon F. Black, maintains regular liaison with the Student Council
and works with a student committee formed to develop student suggestions and recommendations for expanded use of the Clubhouse.
Also, the President of the Student Council, and an officer of his choosing, have been invited to sit in with the Board and discuss with the
members of the Board their problems and suggestions for improvements. Results included a program of regular notices and advertising
for special events in the Daily California newspaper, as well as
weekly activities, and posters displayed in the lighted Bulletin Board
in front of the Clubhouse. In addition, letters went out to all Northern California area DeMolay, Jobs Daughters and Rainbow Girls
groups.
A series of Thursday night open Seminars on current events by
University lecturers was developed. An Opinion Poll on Club activities helped formulate the students' social calendar and the 1960
Fall Semester Open House dance gained nearly one hundred new
members to start the year.
Pledge projects, dances and socials, the U.C.L.A. weekend visit,
the Home Coming with the Grand Master's visit, snow trips, picnics
and the regular use of the Clubhouse, including daily snackbar luncheons, entertainment with the TV and Hi Fi set and numerous other
Club facilities all brought stimulating enjoyment and scores of students in spite of the heavily increasing competition for the students'
time and support of other campus organizations and activities.
The Personnel Committee, Bro. John L. Wixon, Ch., interviewed
prospective candidates for the position of Resident Hostess for the
Club during the past two years, since Mrs. Esther Mainwaring had
expressed the wish to retire. It was not until the late 1961 Spring term
that choice settled on two ladies to perform the heavy duties formerly
carried on by Mrs. Mainwaring. Mrs. Janaice Kohl was employed as
Resident Hostess and Mrs. Stuart Kierulff was hired as Social Hostess.
A vote of thanks and sincere appreciation was recorded by the
Board of Directors to the retiring Hostess, Mrs. Esther Mainwaring.
for her years of devoted interest and service "beyond the call of duty"
on behalf of the students and the Masonic Clubhouse. Slie .will be

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

243

fondly remembered by Board members and the many students who
profited by her gracious help and advice on their Club and personal
problems.

~ith the addition of our two new Hostesses, we feel that this
c~mmg -y_ea~ can be a very successful year. They appear to be endowed
with . unlimited enthusiasm and ideas and were well received at the
op~mng St~dent Council session, Tuesday, September 12, 1961. Before
their selection, the Board had set up the qualifications and established
certain. minimum salaries. Over a year ago the Personnel Committee
determmed these requirements and made them known quietly to heads
of the local Masonic Employment Bureau, The University Placement
~ureau and to other possible sources, but with few applicants respondmg. In. order to ~e~~re the services of hostesses qualified to properly
supei:vise the activities of the Clubhouse it was necessary to fix the
salaries of each at a level commensurate with remuneration offered
by oth~rs for similar duties and responsibilities. This, of course, is
responsible for some increase in the Budget, a copy of which is hereto
attached. At the same time, there has been eliminated therefrom the
former item for "Student Assistants" in the amount of $3,000.00.
In addition to its use by the students, where possible the Clubhouse facilities ~ave been extended to the East Bay and BerkeleyAlbany Masters and Wardens' Associations, Masonic Lodges, DeMolay and other Masonic organizations. It is the hope of the Board
that many Masons attending their Grand Lodge Communication this
year may find time to visit the Clubhouse and see for themselves the
facilities availab1e and the use thereof by the students.
Investment of reserve funds, which were formerly carried in
Savings Accounts, are as follows:
Massachusetts Investment Trust ........................ $ 5,337.87
Boston Fund, Inc................................................. 3,924.23
United States Treasury Note, 4%%.
Series "C" 1963 (par value $10,000.) ........ 10,012.50
Federal Land Bank, 3~% Bonds, due
May 22, 1966 (par value $10,000.)............ 9,762.50
Total Investment (not including
Savings Accounts) ...................................... $29,037.10
The following major improvements were made during the fiscal
year and charged to current expenses of operation:
Replacement of old carpet in the office................ $ 370.00
Exterior painted, concrete work on roof
and patching .................................................. 1,421.00
A new t'hree car parking space on Bowditch
Street to the rear of the lot............................ 752.00
Painting of the Resident Hostess' apartment...... 300.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Budget for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1962 adopted by
the Board, and previously submitted to the Finance Committee, is
attached hereto as Exhibit No. One and incorporated.
The Board recommends in furtlherance of its objective of obtain·
ing a greater use of the Clubhouse at Berkeley that an annual letter
from the Grand Master, preferably timed to be read at the June stated
meetings, be mailed to the various Secretaries reminding Californ~a
Masons about the Clubhouse, and particularly calling to the Craft s
attention the fact that those eligible to membership are Masons, the
sons, daughters and blood relatives of Masons, as well as DeMolay.
Jobs Daughters and Rainbow Girls, also that personal memb~rsh1p
in the Masonic Order is not a requisite and ~he Club is co-educational.
The Board would also appreciate and recommends that the foregoing matters and other suitable publicity be given to the Clubhouse
in the Summer issue of the California Freemason.
Your Board of Directors deems it a privilege to serve this worthy
Masonic activity.

EXHIBIT NO. ONE
THE MASONIC CLUB OF THE UNIVERSITY,
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA
FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1962
THE
FOR
BUDGET

244

Respectfully submitted,
ORVILLE J. SIPE,
President ( 1963)
WALLACE E. YoRK,
Vice President ( 1963)
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN,
Secretary ( 1962)
CHARLES F. DALZIEL,
Treasurer ( 1964)
GENE c. OTWELL,
Assistant Secretary (11962)
GORDON F. BLACK ( 1964)
RUSSELL C. HORSTMANN ( 1963)
PAUL S. BOREN ( 1962)
JoHN L. W1xoN ( 1964)
Referred to Committee on Finance.

245

(Adopted August 24, 1961)
SALARIES:
Resident Hostess .................... $3.360.00
Social Hostess ........................ 3,600.00
Accountant .............................. 480.00
Janitor and Gardener.............. 1.500.00

$8,940.00

UTILITIES:
Gas, electricity and water...... .. 1,200.00
Garbage ..................................
50.00
Telephone ................................ 300.00

1,550.00

SUPPLIES:
Janitorial ................................. .
Garden .................................. ..
Office, printing, periodicals.. ..

275.00
100.00
300.00

675.00

TAXES:
Payroll .................................... 225.00
Property .................................. 4,000.00

4,225.00

INSURANCE:
Fire, Building, (due 2-1-62) .. 2,157.00
Fire, Furniture, ( 3-18-62) ...... 288.00
Liability, ( 2-6-64-$742.00) ..
85.00
Compensation ..........................

2.530.00

---

BUILDING AND CONTENTS:
Repairs, maintenance, (bldg.) 2,500.00
Repairs, furniture .................... 300.00
Replacement, furniture ............ 300.00
Annual cleaning ...................... 400.00

$17,920.00

3,500.00

PROMOTIONAL
ACTIVITIES ....................

400.00

400.00

AUDIT ....................................... .
MISCELLANEOUS ................

175.00
150.00

175.00
150.00
$22,145.00
4,010.00
$26,155.00

DEPRECIATION .................... 4,010.00
TOTAL BUDGET

246

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REP ORT OF THE BOA RD OF DIRE CTO RS
MAS ONIC CLUB
UNIV ERSI TY OF CAL IFOR NIA, LOS ANG ELES
rnia:
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
pictur e depictWe can, at last, repor t the completion of the motion
sound will be
and
color
ing the activities of our club. This pictur e in
this pictur e
make
to
plan
our
is
It
prese nted durin g Grand Lodge week.
of the
more
that
so
rnia
Califo
ern
available to the Lodges in South
d to
offere
is
what
and
have
we
ies
facilit
the
see
to
breth ren will be able
runive
the
ing
the sons and daugh ters of Maso ns while they are attend
be
will
s
Lodge
dinate
subor
sity. We feel that Grand Lodg e and the
agree ably surpri sed with this picture.
explaining
Listed below is our 1961-1962 Budg et with foot notes
se.
the reaso ns for an increa
serve the club
It has been a pleasure for your Board of Direc tors to
we feel that
and
sed
increa
durin g the past year. The regist ration s have
in Calinry
Maso
and
rsity
unive
the club is definite asset to both the
fornia.
BUDG ET 1961-1962
MASO NIC CLUB
CALIF ORNIA AT Los ANGE LES
OF
UNIVE RSITY

1960-19611
Ex PENSE

Direc tor ..............................................$ 3,782.53
Assoc iate Direc tor ............................ 1.194.60
Building Assis tants .......................... 1,023.37
622.20
Garde ning and Garde n Supplies......
108.63
....
.........
zines.
News paper s and Maga
81
1.225.
r........
Powe
and
r
Wate
Heat, Light,
ies,
Suppl
rs,
Repai
ing
Build
Replacements ........................... . 3,065.97
398.86
Telep hone ..........................................
51.88
.
......
.........
.........
Office Supplies .........
3
128.2
.
.........
.........
.........
.........
Posta ge .........
.55
3,469
.
.........
.........
.........
rty
Prope
s:
Taxe
930.90
Withh oldin g ..................... .
545.09
.
..
.........
Payro ll ..................
41
2,870.
.
.......
.........
.........
Insur ance ..................
5.50
.
.......
.........
l...
Renta
Box
sit
Safe Depo
150.00
Audit ing ............................................
51.40
.
.
Printi ng and Statio nery..................
0
144.0
.
......
.........
Refus e Service ..................
ent
Retire ment Fund Paym
163.50
(Faith C. Sheld on) ....................

BUDG ET

617.98
1,000.00
Maso nic Club Movi e......................... .
245.54
250.0 0
Miscellaneous ................................... .
.
.
.........
.........
.00
.........
6,350
.........
n
Depreciatio
· ..,...$2~0-,7-9~5-.9-5
Total
00.00
$30,2
Our depreciation is determ ined as follows:
Building and Lands capin g
(less depre ciatio n) ......... ........... $45,544.92
Depreciation on basis of
$ 2,847.00
Sixtee n Years ............................
ment
Equip
and
Furni ture
(less depre ciatio n) ......... ........... 7,005.02
Depre datio n on basis of
3,503.00
Two Years ................................
6,350.00
$
Total Depre ciatio n
due to
Our budge t is increa sed about $5,700.00 over last year
three factor s-t
tor
( 1 ) Salar y increases for the Direc tor and Assis tant Direc •
~d

( 2) Fire and Liability Insura nce.
and our
Our flre insura nce policy is $2,770.00 for flve years ,
taken
had
liability policy is $1,590.00 for three years . If we
r.
greate
00
$600.
yearly policies, the cost would have been about
.
( 3) Balance neces sary to complete the Maso nic Movie

$ 5,100.00
1,500.00

Respe ctfull y submitted,
FRAN K H. REINS CH,

l,440. 00

Chair man ( 1963)

800.00
100.00
1,250.00

CLYD E

c. SHOEMAKER,

Vice- Chair man ( 1962)

c. EARL E CRANE,

Secre tary-T reasu rer ( 1963)
HERB ERT H. Coo PER ( 1964)
ELVIN c. DRAK E ( 1964)
MARI ON A. DUNC AN ( 1964)
GEOR GE E. HALL ( 1963)
S. Rov HowE LL ( 1963)
FRAN K M. JENKI NS ( 1962)
JOHN A. KLAR QUIST ( 1962)
GEOR GE KUSSM AN ( 1962)
BATES MASO N ( 1963)
PAUL R. NICHO LS ( 1964)
A. CURT IS SMITH ( 1962)
EDWI N w. WADE (1964 )

3,000.00
400.00
100.00
150.00
3,600.00
350.00
4,360.00
6.00
150.00
150.00
141.00

Refer red to Committe on Finan ce.

247

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON INSURANC E
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Recently, a survey of the insurance program of Grand Lodge was
made by the Insurance Committee.
The coverage has been checked against records previously set up by
us and we accounted for all the policies except Fire Insurance, Workmen's Compensation in the State of Hawaii, and Comprehensive Public
Liability coverage.
Protection for these risks are in the form of Binders which are
being watched carefully and policies should be issued very soon.
Our survey finds the insurance being maintained in good order
and fully covering any foreseeable risks of Grand Lodge.
The assistance of your staff in making this review was excellent.
Respectfully submitted.

T. J. CARLILE
ALLERTON B. EBERT
POLITICAL ACTIVITY OF LODGES
(22)
Report of Special Committee:
At the last regular Communication of Grand Lodge our venerable
Past Grand ·M aster, Charles Albert Adams, presented an important
resolution respecting the activities of Grand Lodge and the constituent
Lodges. This matter was referred to a special committee for study and
recommendation. Your committee has carefully considered the resolution
and its implications and finds itseJf generaJly in accord with Brother
Adams' expressions. Before submitting our redraft, however, it might
be well to discuss briefly the problem which the Adams resolution is
attempting to solve.
Masonry, unlike many other organizations and lodges. has never
tried to dictate to its members in the realm of religion or polit:Iics. We
recognize that any attempt to do so would ineviitably lead to bitter
disharmony and would be fatal to our ultimate goal to inspire men in
all walks of life to nobility of thought and conduct. Freedom of polit:Iical
action, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom to explore
the unknown and to develop new and even daring ideas are necessary
characteristics of a dynamic society. Thus Masonry concerns itseJf with
liberty of thought and action. The demands of Masonry on the conscience of man are but few and are fundamental. The ·M ason must
believe in God and in the immortality of the soul. But there is no
dictation as to his religious preference; indeed we invite men of all
religious convictions. '!'here is no dictation as to political preference;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

249

indeed we embrace people of all true political parties. The Mason is
not told. on penalty .of expul~io~, what he •shall not read or say or how
he must vo_te ~n a given public issue. He is not prohibited from joining
aniy organizations save those dedicated to subversion or violence or
other forms of lawlessness.
Howe~er, while we all recognize harmony and freedom of thought
and ~onsc1ence. a.s essential characteristics of ·Masonry, we are equally
~ogmzant ~hat it is essential in the sensitive and dynamic era in which we
live ~o ~chieve the greatest possible degree of enlig'h tenment on the great
public 1ss~es of ~he day. It is unrealistic and dangerous for us. as Maso.ns, to hide. our heads in the sand, and concern ourselves exclusively
with our ~ncient rites and rituals. In the past, our cautious attitude and
f~ar of disharmony may have led us into unjustified timidity and consi.derab~e confusion as to what we could safely permit by way of free
discussion on the floor of our Lodges. It is to the clarification of this
matter that Brother Adams' resolution addresses itself.
Thus the Adams resolution recognizes the propriety and desirability
of free and ~pen discuss.ion within a Lodge of matters concerning the
general public .wel~are. including the subject of pending local, state,
and federal l~gislation. This ~ould lead to the more intelligent exercise
of the franchise and a keener interest in our duties as citizens.
~~e. resolution, .however, provides certain safeguards against the
pos.s1bdity of embroilme.nt in the arena of local, state or federal politics,
which has been so detnmental to Masonry in some of the countries of
the Old World. It recognizes the very real danger of the depletion of
Lod~e funds for political purposes. and of the public endorsement
or disapproval of candidates or legislation where t'he existence of the
Lodge i~ ~ot i'?1mediately endangered or imperiled. It recognizes that
~uch ~c~1vity w11J re~ult in disha~m~ny, public discredit and an attempted
imposition of the wiJI of the maJority on the conscience of the minority
As pointed out by Brother Adams such activity would impose .. a~
ex_press or implied duty" on the part of Masons to vote dn accordance
with the action taken. This is abhorrent to free men and would result in
what might be termed "dnstitutionalized thinking."
~ e, o~ the committee, feel that the proposed resolution is another
manifestation of the wisdom, keen intellect, and foresight of Charles
Alb~rt Adams, and we respectfully recommend adoption in the following redrafted form:
RESOLUTION

BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
Notwithstandi ng any decisions, edicts, rules, or regulations of
Grand Lodge heretofore passed, free, full and open discussion shall
hereafter be ~ermitted ~n Gr~nd Lodge, and in the constituent Lodges,
on any question or subject directly or indirectly affecting Freemasonry

250

251

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

or the public welfare generally, including, but not limited to, the discussion of pending or proposed local, state or federal legislation.
Provided, however, there shall be no discussion within a Masonic
Lodge of religious sectarianism , as such, partisan politics, or the candidacy of any aspirant for public office, and provided further that neither
Grand Lodge nor any constituent Lodge shall take action witlh reference
to, or endorse or disapprove any proposed local, state or federal legislation, unless Grand Lodge shall Srst have determined that such legislation constitutes an immediate peril to the existence of Masonic Lodges,
or threatens the imposition of restrictions thereon.
Provided, further, that neither Grand Lodge nor any constituent
Lodge shall solicit, accept, contribute, appropriate, or expend any funds
to be used in the candidacy for any public office; nor shall Grand Lodge
or any constituent Lodge solicit, accept, contribute, appropriate, or
expend any funds for any campaign for the adoption or rejection of
any proposed local. state or federal legislation unless Grand Lodge
shall first have determined that such legislation constitutes an immediate
peril to the existence of Masonic Lodges or threatens the imposition
of restrictions thereon, and only then, in the case of Grand Lodge. by
a 5/6 vote of qualified voters present at a Communica tion, or, in the
case of constituent Lodges, by a vote of 5/6 of members present at a
meeting of which written or printed notice of time, place and purpose
shall have been mailed to each of its members at least 30 days prior
to the date thereof.
Be it further resolved - that this resolution be recorded among the
ordinances of Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,

determined that such legislation constitutes an immediate peril to the
existence of Freemasonr y or threatens the imposition of restrictions
thereon, provided, however, that no funds shall ever be solicited, contributed, accepted, appropriate d or expended to support or oppose
such legislation unless Grand Lodge has determined by a 5/6 vote that
the peril or threat above specified exists.
We move the adoption of the resolution and strongly urge a no
vote.
If this passes, harmony will no longer be the strength and •support
of our society. Our Lodges will become forums for political hawking
and haggling, ·t o the neglect of our cardinal virtues and fundamenta l
teachings.

WAKEFIELD TAYLOR
RALPH T. MERRIAM
FOLGER EMERSON
RALPH H. HEAD
SHENK
SAMUEL

c.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 22 by Brotlher Taylor, et al., we report
as follows:
RESOLVE D:

That a new section be inserted in CMC to read as follows:
Sec. 388. Politics and Religion. Full and open discussion of all
questions or subjects affecting Freemasonr y or the public welfare, except religious sectarianism , partisan politics and candidacy for public
office but including proposed and pending legislation on the federal.
state or local level. shall be permitted in Lodges and in Grand Lodge,
but, no vote or action may be taken thereon unless Grand Lodge has

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their
concurrence in the recommenda tion.
The amount of discussion indicated that tlhe matter could not be
brought to completion in the time available before the necrology service.
The Grand Master therefore set 10:30 Thursday morning as the time
for this matter to be considered as a special order of business.
When the matter was considered as a special order of business a
majority voted against the resolution.

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MEMORIAL SERVICE
Organ Prelude........................................ Harold Mueller, Grand Organist
lnvocation...................... T1he Rev. Clarence Reidenbach, Grand Chaplaiin
Organ Solo..........................................................................Grand Organist
Necrology Report. ........................................................... Adam B. Morten
Eulogy.................................................................................. Ralph H. Head
Vocal Solo............................................................................Austin Mosher
Benediction.......................................................................... Grand Chaplain
Taps.............................................................. Grand Organist and Vocalist

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The report of the Committee on Necrology tends to promote serious
and melancholy reflections. Death is an occasion of sadness. No matter
how strong our faith in the immortality of the soul. we all know we
shall see our departed no more in the flesh. and the fellowship we have
had remains only as a precious memory. We all come to this Service
with a certain heaviness of spirit because we have known some of those
who have passed from our midst. We miss their warm greetings at
Grand Lodge and the companionship we 'h ave had with them. It is not
possible that any of us knew all who have gone on and only at this
time do we get the full picture of the total loss of this body.
As we might expect from an organization that is constantly increasing in numbers, the death roll is also increasing. For several years
there has been a slight increase each year. This year again the number
has grown. During the past Masonic year three hundred ninety-one
members of this Grand Lodge have welcomed death. "as a kind messenger sent to translate them from this imperfect to that all perfect.
glorious, and Celestial Lodge above, where the Supreme Grand Master
of the Universe forever presides." Losses have been sustained by two
hundred seventy-one lodges scattered throughout the State. One hundred seventy-nine lodges each lost one of its Past Masters; sixty-nine
lodges lost two; eighteen lodges lost three; and five lodges lost four.
Many of those on the roll had been Masons and served in their
lodges for many years. We find at least fifty-two had been Masons for
over Jlfty years. Four were Masons for over sixty years, and one who
will be mentioned later was raised on August 1, 1889 and at the time
of his death was a Mason of over seventy-one years standing. The
name of Past Grand Master Samuel E. Burke is on the roll. A suitable
eulogy will be presented by Brother Ralph H. Head. Also the names
of Brother Ralph E. Hoyt, a member of the Grievances Committee,
Ralph M. Foote, former Assistant Grand Lecturer, and several former
inspectors.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

253

JAMES ANDREW LYNCH

On October 28, 1960 death took from our midst James Andrew
Lynch of Long Beach. Brother Lynch was born in Brooklyn, New
York on May 13, 1880. He saw service in the Spanish-American war.
In 1902 he came to Long Beach, where he worked for the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company for twenty years. He then went to
work for Sou~hern Cali_forn~a Edison Company and, after twenty-seven
years of service, he retired m 1947 as Assistant Manager.
James A. Lynch was raised a Master Mason in West Lake Lodge
No. 392 in Los Angeles on May 21, 1921 and later affiliated with Palos
Verdes Lodge No. 389 in Long Beach. He became Charter Senior
Deacon in Service Lodge No. 594, Long Beach and served as Master of
that Lodge in 1927. In 1928 he was appointed Inspector of the 98th Masonic District and served as such until 1935. He was a member of the
Order of Sciots and served as top officer, both in his own Pyramid in
Lon~ Beach and i~ the Supreme Pyramid. For many years he was
Chairman of the Sciot Foundation Fund which administers aid to needy
children of all races and creeds. He also was a member of both York
and Sc~ttish Rite Bodies and a Charter Member of El Bekal Temple of
the Shrine. A member of the First Baptist Church of Long Beach for
many years, he served on the official Board and as an usher in that
Church. Over a long life, he was always active in good work and was
a blessing to his fellowmen. We are confident Brother Jim Lynch has
heard his Master's "Come, ye blessed of my Father, enter into the Kingdom prepared for you."
JOHN M. lcARDO

San Francisco Masonry lost one of its truly distinguished members
when John M. Icardo entered into his rest on March 24, 1961.
John was born in the Province of Savona, Italy on June 5, 1872 and
came to this Country at an early age with his parents. When 'he was
about thirty he entered the restaurant business in which he was very
successful.
In ~ovember, 1900_ he took the three degrees of Masonry in one
month m Speranza Itahana Lodge No. 219 in San Francisco. He was
Master of this_ Lod_ge _in ~ 908 and again in 1921. Appointed Inspector
of ~80 Masonic Di~trict m 1921, he served continuously in that office
until 1956 - for thirty-five consecutive years. He was Secretary of his
Lodge from 1937 to 1951 and was made a Life Member in 1940. He
received his "Fifty Year Pin" on December 9, 1950.
We understand that John was among the first - was possibly the
first -_to make a contribution to this Grand Lodge Temple Fund. He
went directly from the Grand Lodge Session, in which it was decided
to acquire this site and proceed with the erection of this Temple, to

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the Grand Lodge Offices and presented a check as a contribution to the
Temple Fund.
Funeral services for Brother Icardo were conducted by San Francisco Inspectors, with Edward Lohmeyer in charge. Past Grand Master
.
Lloyd E. Wiloson gave the eulogy.
San Francisco Masonry gained lustre throug·h the life and sei:vices
of John Icardo and W.~ are very thank~?l for the deep loyalty and friendship of this genuine Master Mason.
GEORGE HOWERTON OLMSTED

George H. Olmsted answered his Master's summons to t~e Celestial
Lodge above on January 26, 1961. He was born in ~cottsville ..now .a
suburb of Jackson, on January 23, 1888 into an e~rly pioneer family. hi~
mother having been born 1in a covered wagon m Utah. .He atten~
e
schools in Amador County and moved to Sacramento m 1908.
worked at several jobs for a number of years. Joining the Sacram~nto
National Guard Company, he served as a guard in the Sa~ F~ancisco
earthquake in 1906, and in the expedition against Pancho Villa m 1914.
He was a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army in France in ~orld Wa~ I. In
1923 he formed a printing .firm partnership with fos brotheMn-Jaw,
Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master of this Grand Lodge, and continued in that association till he died.
George H. Olmsted was raised a Master Mason in Tehama Lodge
N o. 3 on January 31 • 1916 at the age of 28. He served ·ash Master of
Tehama Lodge in 1925 and as Secretary from 1932 for eig teen Y.ears.
In 1950 he was Junior Grand Steward of this Grand Lodge. App~mte.d
t of District No. 216 in 1951. he served in that office tilld his
I
. h Rit e Bo d.ies an . of
d S cottis
nspec or
He was a member of both Y or k an
death.
Ben Ali Temple of the Shrine. For twenty-seven years he was Assoaate
Guardian of Bethel No. 74 Job's Daughters and was a Past Patron of
his Eastern Star Chapter.
He was an outdoor man and an organizer of. a fls? planting club
which has done much to stock the water in the high Sierras. He was
also active in many community undertakings.
He is survived by Lorena, his wife for 49Yz years, and one da~ghter,
Mrs. J. J. O'Conner, two grandchildren, and flv~ great grandchildren.
In labors abundant, he served his God and his fellowmen through
Masonry and many other organizations.
1

THOMAS GLENN WRIGHT

T. Glenn Wright, a resident of Lodi for fifty-five years, died in that
City on January 10, 1961 at the age of eighty-five years.
Born in White Rock, Pennsylvania on December 4, dl 8~5, ~l~nn
came to Lodi in 1906, where he worked as a carpenter an e ectriaan.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

255

In later years he was a custodian in the public schools until his retirement in 1946, since which time he ·h as devoted himself to Masonry.
He was raised a Master Mason on August 31, 1922 in Lodi Lodge No.
256 at the age of forty-seven years. He was Master of Lodi Lodge in
1928 and served as an Inspector from 1934 to 1945. W 1hen over eighty
years of age he was exalted a Royal Arch Mason in Calaveras Chapter
and for a time served as an officer. For forty-eight years he was a member of Lodi Odd Fellows Lodge. He was a Sciot and member of Lodi
High Twelve. A member of Lodi Methodist Church, he was active in the
Men's Club of the Church.
He and his wife, Sara Webster Wright, who predeceased him in
1953, celebrated their Golden Wedding on May 23, 1950. He is survived by a son Herman of Lodi, two daughters, Clara Wright and Mrs.
Harriet Hubbard, four grandchildren, four great grandchildren, and
two great great grandchildren.
His daughter writes "Altha he was a member of other lodges, his
true love was the Blue Lodge."
fo Lodi he was often referred to as "Mr. Mason himself." He
labored long for his fellows and gained the love and respect of all. He
merited his Master's, "Well done, good and faithful servant ... enter
into the joy of thy Lord."
GEORGE HoWE BUTTRICK

The man who was probably t'he oldest member of this Grand Lodge
was removed from our midst when death came to George H. Buttrick of
Stockton.
Brother George was born on October 24, 1862 and died May 6,
1961, having thus reached the age of ninety-eight years and seven
months. He was raised a Master Mason in Morning Star Lodge No. 68
on August 1, 1889, thus having been a Mason for nearly seventy-two
years at the time of his death. He has been a member of this Grand
Lodge for at least fifty-six years since he was Master of Morning Star
Lodge in 1905.
While the length of time Brother George lived and was a Mason was
truly remarkable and must constitute something of a record, the truly
significant thing about him was the full measure of service he crowded
into those years. Always active, since his retirement from the position
of Chief Engineer at the Stockton State Hospital in 1939 after fortyt'hree years service, he had devoted himself largely to Masonic Service.
At the time of his death 1he was serving his forty-ninth consecutive year
as Secretary of Morning Star Lodge.
He received his 32nd degree in San Francisco Consistory in September, 1919 and became a Charter Member of Stockton Consistory
when it was organized in 1922. He served as Secretary of all Scottish

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Rite Bodies from 1922, and, in honor of his valued services, was made
Secretary Emeritus in February, 1955. He was coronated 33rd degree
on December 16, 1939. George was a sincere and loyal Master Mason,
and today we respectful ly thank Almighty God that he was given such
a long life to labor so abundantl y for his brother man.
RALPH EDWIN HoYT

Death came suddenly to Ralph E. Hoyt. when he died of a heart attack in his Oakland home on Saturday, July 29, 1961. He was sixtyseven years of age.
Ralph Hoyt had a distinguis hed career as a member of ~he Califo~a
Bar and was a long time associate and close personal friend of Ch.ief
Justice Earl Warren, P.G.M. Born in San Diego County, he studied
at the University of California and received his law degree in 1917. He
was admitted to the Bar in that year and in 1919 he became a member
of Alameda County District Attorney' s Staff. He served as Chief As-sistant to District Attorney Earl Warren from 1926 to 1939, and. when
Earl Warren became California Attorney General. he was made Dis-trict Attorney in his place. In 1947 Governor Warren appointed Ralph
Hoyt to the Superior Court Bench, describing him as "a fine, courageous,
public servant." He has served in that position with g~eat ~istinction
and last year was President of the Conferenc e of California J~dg~s.
He spent the last five months of his life on assignmen t to the Distnct
Court of Appeals.
Ralph E. Hoyt was made a Mason in Durant Lodge No. 268 on
Septembe r 18. 1916, while still a student at U. C. He was Master of
Durant Lodge in 1928. He was appointed a member of the Grievance s
Committee in 1949 and was serving on that Committee at the time of
his death. He was a member of Scottish Rite Bodies and was coronated
33rd degree. He was also a member of Aahmes Temple of the Shrine.
He is survived by his wife of forty-four years, a son, Ralph B.
Hoyt of Oakland, daughter. Mrs. J. D. Sanderson of Orinda, and six
grandchildren.
Ralph Hoyt was a courteous, courageous gentleman and Califor~ia
lost a revered Jurist and this Grand Lodge a beloved hard working
member when he passed. We hoped he might have been spared for
more years of service but
"God has led our brother on,
And He can do no wrong."
1

1

RALPH M1LES FooTB

Following a four month illness, Ralph M. Foote died at Hillhaven
Rest Home in Stockton on August 15, 1961.
Ralph, who was a life long resident of eastern San Joaquin County,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

257

was seventy-e ight years of age. Born between Linden and Clements,
he was educated at Grant School and at Business Colleges in Stockton.
In 1911 he purchased a hardware store in Linden, which he operated
until his retirement in 1945.
He was raised in Valley Lodge No. 135 on October 14, 1916 and
served as Master of his Lodge in 1921. He was appointed an Inspector
in 1922 and held that office until 1952, when he was appointed Assistant
Grand Lecturer. an office he held for seven years. Thirty-sev en consecutive years as Inspector and Assistant Grand Lecturer was a long
service. but we are sure Ralph would tell us that he was more than
repaid for all his effort by the fellowship he enjoyed. In addition to
the Blue Lodge, he was also a member of Eastern Star, York and
Scottish Rite Bodies in Stockton, ,and Ben Ali Shrine in Sacramen to.
Predeceas ed by his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Maxine
Drace of Linden, two sons. Cyril Foote of Linden, and Deane Foote of
West Allis, Wisconsin , and six grandchild ren.
A dependable, kindly man, for many years Ralph has spread the
cement of brotherly love among the lodges. He merited and received
the respect and love of 'his brethren and lifted high the reputation of
Masonry in his community. We miss him at Grand Lodge, but we are
thankful we were privileged to enjoy his friendship. His memory will
remain an inspiration to more kindly living.
HENRY KOBER

At the time of his death on March 30, 1961 Henry Kober had been
a Mason for aliftost sixty-six years. He was a member and Past Master
of North East Lodge No. 266 in Fort Bidwell. We do not know how
often Henry served his lodge as Master, but we understan d he did so
on more than one year. He also served as Secretary . A storekeepe r in
a small town in an isolated area, he was one of those devoted characters
Who help to keep Masonry alive where numbers are small and outside
fellowship somewhat remote.
Henry was Grand Bible Bearer in 1953 and won a warm place in
the hearts of the Grand Lodge Officers of that year. He attended a
number of Grand Lodge meetings during the year. In order to get to
the meeting, Henry drove from his home at Fort Bidwell. in the Northeast corner of California , to Reno, a distance, over mountains, of about
235 miles. From Reno he flew to San Francisco from where he proceeded with some of the rest of us to wherever Grand Lodge was meeting. He was at the time about eighty years of age. This kind of effort
was indicative of the fidelity of this brother over many years.
Many of the officers of 1953, as well as others who knew him, will
be saddened to learn that gentle, kindly, faithful Henry Kober has left
us and will feel like saying, "Goodbye , Henry, till we meet again."

258

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

FRED A. KELSEY

EULOGY

On September 2, 1961 a very widely known man, an~ popular
member of the Fraternity left us when Fred A. Kelsey died at the
Motion Picture Country Home and Hospital in Woodland Hills, at
the age of 77 years.
Fred was one of Hollywood's busiest character actors and was one
of the first to take such roles in talking pictures. He began his film
career in 1909 and came to Hollywood witlh the late D. W. Griffith
during World War 1. He won wide recognition in ?ot~ silen~: and
later in sound films. He appeared with Rudolph Valentino m the Four
Horesmen of the Apocalypse" in which he portayed four different Ger#
man officers.
A very popular member of Mount Olive Lodge No. ~06, he served
his lodge as Master in 1936, and as Secretary from Apnl 20, 1942, to
December 31, 1958. He was also a well known member of this Grand
Lodge, which he served as Grand Sword Bearer from October, 1937 to
October, 1939.
Fred has gone but he lingers on as an enlivening influence in. the
memory of the many who knew him.
We cannot even call tihe names of all on the roll. A complete list
is attached and made a part of this report. They gave long years of
service to their Lodges and their fellowmen. Many served on City
Councils and on School Boards. Masonry does not promote projects,
but it has sent out men of 1high principles to serve in every field of
human endeavor. They have labored mightily. but God has decreed that
their work is done. We mourn their loss, but we are not among those
"Who, hopeless, lay tfheir dead away," but rather among those who
believe:
"That Life is ever Lord of Death,
And Love can never lose its own."
ADAM B. MORTEN
Ross K. RoPER
LEONARD D. BABCOCK
ROBERT F. BERGMANN
EMORY

o. HULL, JR.

259

SAMUEL EDGERTON BURKE

By Ralph H. Head
The proceedings of the seventy#third annual Communication of
Grand Lodge contain in part a biographical record of the then presiding
Grand Master, the beloved Samuel Edgerton Burke. After properly
extolling his virtues and his accomplishments, the report concludes.
"May he live to a green old age.''
Our venerable Past Grand Master took this wish -seriously. Who#
ever summarily concluded that the "good die young" did not take Sam
Burke into account. He died one day after his noinety#ehird birthday
and the good he did is not interred with his bones. It will live on and
on for many, many years.
Propriety requires that the recordation of this eulogy include the
Masonic statisticoS of this great and kind man. It would be my prefer#
ence to use this time and space in a plea that Ms exemplary life be a
constant inspiration to every Mason in California.
Samuel Edgerton Burke was born in the Province of Ontario,
Canada, on February 13, 1868. He graduated from Lake Forest
University, Illinois, with a Degree in Dental Surgery. He was made a
Master Mason •in Sunset Lodge No. 352 in 1903 and became its
Master in 1906. He iserved Grand Lodge faithfully as an Inspector
for mine years. HioS devotion continued in 1911 with his appointment
as Grand Chaplain, Grand Bible Bearer in 1912, one of the most
affluent of all Grand Orators in 1915, Junior Warden in 1918, and
was elected to California Freemasonry's highest honor as Grand Master
in 1921.
Dr. Burke's Masonic life was well rounded, for he not only joined
but took an active part in the affairs of other affiliated Masonic orders.
He was Grand MaoSter of the Grand Council of California in the Y erk
Rite and received his honorary 33rd degree &om the Los Angeles
Bodies of the Scottish Rite.
He is survived by his loving and devoted son, Frazee, a member
of his own Lodge.
Sam Burke enjoyed everything he did in Freemasonry. He did
everything well and with the highest of fotegrity, but if he could have
been made to account for his most enjoyable years it would have been his

260

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

long, faithful, and valuable tenure as a Trustee of the Masonic Homes
of California.
A1s he closed his address to Grand Lodge on October 10, 1922. in
his typical graciousness he thanked his officers without whose help,
he stated, he would have been "a very small bark on a mighty sea."
Those who knew Sam Burke will forever disagree. Here was a
Mason who so Hved his life that he was always "a mighty big bark on
a great sea of friends."
The Masonic poet, Douglas Malloch, wrote words which should
convince us that the loss of Samuel Edgerton Burke is but another
reminder of the immortality of the soul.
I would not hold our loss too lightly,
God knows, and he, 'how deep the pain:
But friends, I see still shining brightly
The brightest link in all our Chain
That links us with a new domain.
For friendship binds the world together,
World over there, world over here.
F,rom earth to heaven is the tether
That brings the earth and 'heaven near
And makes them both a bit more dear.
W 'h atever vales we may yet wander,
What sorrow come, what tempest blow,
We have a friend, a friend out yonder,
To greet us when we have to go-Out yonder someone that we know.
To all eternity he binds us;
He links the planet and the star;
He rides ahead, the trail 'he finds us,
And where he is and where we are
Will never seem agafa so far.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

PAST MASTERS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
Tehama Lodge No. 3
George Howerton Olmsted, died January 26 1961
Corinthian Lodge No. 9
'
Clifford Bean Hill, died December 20 1960
Frank Wilford Poole, died January 25, 1961
Yount Lodge No. 12
George Arthur Forrest, died July 27 1960
George Wayne Yates, died March 23: 1961
Nevada Lodge No. 13
Walter E. Williams, died January 2, 1961
James Snell. died March 25, 1961
Temple Lodge No. 14
Spencer Rees, died February 18 1961
Warren D. More, died June 8, 1961
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19
Herbert Malcolm Stephen Winston, died December 27 1960
Elmer Walford Forslund died June 1 1961
'
Washington Lodge No. 20
'
'
Warren Eugene Munford, died July 24 1960
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
'
Phillip Frederick Day, died August 3 1960
Madison Lodge No. 23
'
Leonard Alfred Martin, died March 26, 1961
El Dorado Lodge No. 26
Horace G. Dunn, died March 7 1961
Thomas T. Chard, died May 23 1961
Ophir Lodge No. 33
'
Francis B. Orth, died May 25 1961
San Diego Lodge No. 35
'
Alfred Hyde Gilbert, died September 10, 1960
H oward Lodge No. 37
Howard Marshall Hicks, died February 16 1961
Sacramento Lodge No. 40
'
George Victor Reynolds, died December 10 1960
George Nesbitt Cook, died December 30 1960
Rodolph Merit Bettens, died May 7 196i
Herman Bowman Weaver, died Julie 9 1961
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42
'
F. M. Huntoon, died August 4, 1960
George Berkson, died June 2 1961
Union Lodge No. 58
'
John Walter Tyer, died March 14 1960
Wayne Mayhew Tilden, died Au~st 25, 1960
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59
Harold Nelson, died February 23 1961
. Earl Le Roy Cleveland, died Jun~ 7, 1961
Live Oak Lodge No. 61
Ernest August Hoffman, died January 13 1961
Natoma Lodge No. 64
'
David McQueen Belfield, died January 2 1961
Harry Ellis Groff, died March 6, 1961
'
f!arvey Duane Treichler, died May 16, 1961
Morning Star Lodge No. 68
George Howe Buttrick, died May 4 1961
Enterprise Lodge No. 70
'
Arthur Gustavus Woodworth, died July 7 1961
Humboldt Lodge No. 79
'
William James Boyd, died February 8 1961
Edward Madsen, died May 4 1961
'
Ewen Joseph Stewart, died iune 18, 1961

261

262

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

Yolo Lodge No. 81
Clyde Flournoy Hayden, died December 31, 1960
Naval Lodge No. 87
Philip Sheridan Creedon, died January 21, 1961
Elton Lester Hunt, died February 3, 1961
North Star Lodge No. 91
Jacob Douglas Ames, died September 23, 1960
Archie Kindig, died January 18, 1961
Henry Clay Lodge No. 95
John F. Allen, died December 6, 1960
Yosemite Lodge No. 99
Merl A. Blackman, died August 16, 1960
Emmett Turner Cunningha m, died January 24, 1961
Clay Lodge No. 101
Earl Witheral Crane, died February 13, 1961
Pajaro Lodge No. 110
Frederic Sheridan Wilson, died December 16, 1960
Robert Henry Hudson, died March 1, 1961
Eden Lodge No. 113
Joseph Burtrin Mills, died November 20, 1960
Concord Lodge No. 117
Jack Cleo Merriman, died July 27, 1960
Alamo Lodge No. 122
Frank Elias Butt, died June 19, 1961
Table Mountain Lodge No. 124
Don Charles Irving Brown, died February 23, 1961
La Fayette Lodge No. 126
Ernest Albert Feaks, died August 31, 1960
William Carlisle Heatly, died October 25, 1960
Visalia Lodge No. 128
Cornelius Easter Barton, died October 26, 1960
Simon Levy, died February 5, 1961
Woodbridg e Lodge No. 13L.
Clyde Hall Gregg, died January 6, 1961
Sincerity Lodge No. 132
Charles Elby Blackman, died January 24, 1961
Crockett Lodge No.139
Herbert John Gaevert, died March 15, 1961
Grafton Lodge No. HI
Carl Albert Slensland, died December 31, 1960
Vitruvius Lodge No. 145
Theodore J. Friis, died November 30, 1960
Abell Lodge No. 1'6
Irving Myron Brazier, died March 11, 1961
Lassen Lodge No. 149
James Augustus Pardee, died March 11, 1961
Forrest Luther Holmes, died May 16, 1961
Fred William Bode, died June 14, 1961
Molino Lodge No.150
Otto Edward Asman, died October 28, 1960
Woodland Lodge No. 156
Shirley Tutt Drever, died February 22, 1961
Excelsior Lodge No. 166
James Hardy Lewis, died May 8, 1961
Alameda Lodge No. 167
Marston Campell Dassel, died November 6, 1960
Karl Nordvik, died January 6, 1961
Redwood City Lodge No. 168
David Richard Stott, died May 19, 1961
Mission Lodge No.169
Willard Russell Arnold, died September 25, 1960
Frank Hurshall Thrall, died February 21, 1961
William Christense n Olsen, died April 12, 1961

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

Elk Grove Lodge No. 173
Frederick A. Miller, died December 10, 1960
Edgar J. Camp, died June 28, 1961
Phoenix Lodge No. 178
Frank Rae Eshelman, died September 13, 1960
Jesse William Curtis, died October 5, 1960
John Rice Kennedy, died January 25, 1961
Petaluma Lodge No. 180
Hiram Hopkins, died August 25, 1960
Russian River Lodge No. 181
William Henry Fredrickso n, died April 3, 1961
Henry Phillip Fores, died April 27, 1961
Clear Lake Lodge No. 183
Charles Monroe Edson, died November 19, 1960
Marin Lodge No. 191
Henry Elijah Greer, died January 19, 1961
San Simeon Lodge No. 196
Roland L. Houtz, died May 6, 1961
Hartley Lodge No. 199
Charles J. Awe, died December 15, 1960
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
William Henry Clay Ness, died September 26, 1960
Confidence Lodge No. 203
Edgar Earl Breaux, died July 31, 1960
Salinas Lodge No. 204
William Henry Bingaman, died December 2, 1960
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208
Janis David Bradford, died May 26, 1961
Friendship Lodge No. 210
Frank Ten Eyck Edmans, died September 7, 1960
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212
Joseph Reginald Gregor, died August 31, 1960
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215
Ford Hensley Thomason, died January 18, 1961
Francis George Thornton, died May 19, 1961
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219
John M. Icardo, died March 24, 1961
Nicola Colapietro , died April 5, 1961
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225
John Arthur Petty, died March 18, 1960
San Mateo Lodge No. 226
Albert Alfred Rochex, died March 9, 1961
Athens Lodge No. 228
Trygve Oscar Pettersen, died March 15, 1961
Covelo Lodge No. 231
George M. Biggar, died May 22, 1961
Janesville Lodge No. 232
Ralph M. King, died February 2, 1961
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237
Harry Leslie Anderson, died October 7, 1960
Colusa Lodge No. 240
Henry MacDouga ll Kingwill, died July 10, 1960
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241
Francis C. Horton, died October 16, 1960
Leslie M. Pearson, died November 1, 1960
Bertram H. Latham, died January 9, 1961
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243
Alfred Bowman Morris, died December 9, 1960
Alcatru Lodge No. 244
Joseph Henry Scott, Jr., died May 28, 1961

263

264

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

Pomona Lodge No. 246
Jerome Adelbert Ludden, died July 21, 1960
.
Alturas Lodge No. 248
Samuel E. Baty, died November 10, 1960
Arthur Henry Cook, died January 2, 1961
Earl Cecil Thompson , died June 8, 1961
Landmark Lodqe No. 253
George S. Fredericks , died June 24, 1961
Lodi Lodge No. 256
Thomas Glenn Wright, died January 10, 1961
Thomas George Killelea, died April 14, 1961
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258
Theodore Martin Navas, died July 18, 1960
James Joseph Callison, died November 28, 1960
ETergreen Lodge No. 259
John T. Hodson, died April 19. 1961
Wilbert Renville Graham, died June 17, 1961
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260
Louis Charles Julius Clodi, died June 22, 1961
Tuscan Lodge No. 261
Reg Merrick Cheney, died November 28, 1960
Lompoc Lodge No. 262
Carl D. McCabe, died September 17, 1960
North East Lodge No. 266
Henry Kober, died March 30, 1961
Galt Lodge No. 267
Frederick William Harms, died July 21, 1960
Sidney LeRoy Karr, died April 1, 1961
Olive Branch Lodge No. 269
Glenn Logan Moran, died July 5, 1960
Anoyo Lodge No. 274
Alfred Alan Erhart, died August 13, 1960
Oakdale Lodge No. 275
Glen Coy Chatfield, died May 14, 1961
Selma Lodqe No. 277
Thomas Benton Belew. died January 2, 1961
Southern California Lodae No. 278
Titus Elliott Berrv, died February 6, 1961
Herbert Lemuel Cornish, died February 15, 1961
Hanford Lodqe No. 279
Arthur F . Hammond . died March 4, 1961
Madera Lodge No. 280
Howard Lincoln Riggs, died April 6, 1961
Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281
Joseph Richard Hornbeck, died April 8, 1961
Gordon Albert Parker, died April 14, 1961
Maxwell Lodge No. 288
Lee Atkinson Pendleton, died January 28, 1961
Elsinore Lodge No. 289
Robert Wellington Goodwin, died March 12, 1961
Traver Lodge No. 294
Godfrey Emanuel Andrews, died July 18, 1960
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
Hubert Ellmore Randolph, died October 19, 1960
Liberty Lodge No. 299
John Thomas Allen, died December 9, 1960
Charles Edwin Cushing, Jr., died May 8, 1961
Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302
Leslie Earle Webb, died November 26, 1960
Earl Dewey Benadom, died December 29, 1960

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

Porterville Lodge No. 303
William Clarence Bradford, died June 12, 1961
Azusa Lodge No. 305
Victor Florian Hodge, died December 29, 1960
Ashlar Lodge No. 306
Earl Jayson Strock, died November 20, 1960
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307
Wallace Francis Hasbrouck , died May 28, 1961
MonroTia Lodge No. 308
Wilbur Augustus Treadwell, died April 5, 1961
Los Banos Lodge No. 312
Bert Alvin Wilson, died June 30, 1960
Temescal Lodge No. 314
Wilbur Grafton Darst, died May 10, 1961
Sanger Lodge No. 316
Olin Nevin McClendon , died June 27, 1961
Emmanuel Lodge No. 318
Everette L. Jones, died July 27, 1960
William Earl Stephenson , died September 11, 1960
Samuel M. Arnold, died June 4, 1961
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319
Hubert Coral Grigsby, died January 16, 1961
Alisal Lodge No. 321
Victor Bernard Johnson, died March 27, 1961
Thomas Homer Silver, died June 29, 1961
Whittier Lodge No. 323
Benjamin Franklin Fahnestock , died November 20, 1960
Consuelo Lodge No. 325
Arthur Burns Vanderhoft ', died June 8, 1961
Needles Lodge No. 326
Thomas Conley Wood, died November 22, 1960
Alta Lodge No. 333
Charles Kispert, died December 2, 1960
Covina Lodge No. 334
Thomas Ernest Foster, died January 15, 1961
West Gate Lodge No. 335
James Stacy, died May 4, 1961
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336
George Richard Gehring, died October 27, 1960
San Jacinto Lodge No. 338
Clyde Cooper Kuykendal l, died November 3, 1960
Fullerton Lodge No. 339
Foster E. Chambers, died October 20, 1960
Simon Neubauer, died May 5, 1961
San Fernando Lodge No. 343
Charles J. Shaug, died July 6, 1960
Starr King Lodge No. 344
Herbert David Bendheim, died August 26, 1960
Harry Irving Applebaum , died October 19, 1960
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346
Howard Boyd Amidon, died October 14, 1960
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348
Clare Campsall Layton, died August 5, 1960
Palestine Lodge No. 351
Henry E. Lestmann, died October 18, 1960
Sunset Lodge No. 352
Rollie Webster Miller, died July 18, 1960
Samuel Edgerton Burke, died February 14, 1961
Lee Roy Emery, died February 28, 1961
Pinole Lodge No. 353
Andrew Jackson Hamilton, died August 3, 1960
Tom William Wilson, died February 15, 1961

265

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Presidio Lodge No. 354
Calvin Salvatore Grandi, died July 14, 1960
Vladimir Vucinich, died September 16, 1960
Robert Alexander Ritchie, died October 11, 1960
Caston Pope, died April 7, 1961
Hollywood Lodge No. 355
Bert C. Breeze, died March 24, 1961
Ralph Louis Logan, died May 4, 1961
Golden State Lodge No. 358
Daniel Edwin Carmichael, died August 3, 1960
San Francisco Lodge No. 360
Herbert Burroughs Dean, died February 17, 1961
Cale Clark McQuade, died February 19, 1961
Joseph Angele Sanguinetti, died March 8, 1961
Victor Elmo Perry, died March 30, 1961
Charity Lodge No. 362
Leon Silas Miller, died July 14, 1961
Unity Lodge No. 368
Charles Henry Pitts, died September 1, 1960
Reuben Z. Imler, died March 10, 1961
Elmer Langdon Fairchild, Jr., died May 17, 1961
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
Frank Carver Wolff, died December 10, 1960
Gardena Lodge No. 372
Edward W. Miller, died April 18, 1961
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373
Sylvester E. Gross, died April 17, 1961
Richmond Lodge No. 375
Harry Peter Robinet, died June 20, 1961
Highland Park Lodge No. 382
Benjamin Edward Landis, died September 1, 1960
El Centro Lodge No. 384
Walter Dunbar Garey, died March 18, 1961
John Lemuel House, died April 17, 1961
West Lake Lodge No. 392
Lee Theron Mullen, died October 15, 1960
Guy Frederick Bush, died December 4, 1960
Balder Lodge No. 393
Fred John Boehm, died February 18, 1961
Turlock Lodge No. 395
Harry Oscar Carlson, died September 20, 1960
Apollo Lodge No. 396
Karl David Haberern, died September 16, 1960
Rising Light Lodge No. 397
Charles S. Spangler, died July 9, 1960
Fraternity Lodge No. 399
Charles Lafayette Snyder, died January 15, 1961
Burlingame Lodge No. 400
William Henry Eddy, died October 15, 1960
Glendora Lodge No. 404
Rolfe Bishop Bidwell, died October 15, 1960
Moneta Lodge No. 405
Lee Dotson Mathews, died June 11, 1961
Burbank Lodge No. 406
Gerald Davis Harrington, died March 6, 1961
John Jenkins Griffiths, died April 20, 1961
Wesley Potter Short, died May 15, 1961
Honolulu Lodge No. 409
Frank Martin Walek, died January 1, 1961
Clare Vernon Turner, died September 21, 1961

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Charter Rock Lodge No. 410
John Allan Wolcott, died June 18, 1961
Calexico Lodge No. 412
Herbert Gutierrez, died December 25, 1960
Arlington Lodge No. 414
Fred Walter, Jr., died December 11, 1960
Alfred John Baker, died December 27, 1960
Lindsay Lodge No. 416
Edward Bradford Gould, died December 6 1960
John Henry Mercer, died June 13, 1961
'
Elysian Lodge No. 418
Harry Lincoln Jackson Nicholas, died February 24, 1961
Charles Commodore Ashurst, died April 20, 1961
Upland Lodge No. 419
Ernest C. Mehl, died August 18, 1960
Kerman Lodge No. 420
Don Harvey Hart, died October 26, 1960
Inglewood Lodge No. 421
Thomas Lenard Bennett, died January 18, 1961
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422
Clyde Ernest Sewright, died June 3, 1961
Exeter Lodge No. 424
Thomas Clinton Newman, died February 9 1961
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427
'
Fred Achel Thirion, died February 9 1961
Pittsburg Lodge No. 429
'
Frederick Allison Fletcher, died April 2, 1961
Claremont Lodge No. 436
Harrison Bruce Harwood, died September 20 1960
Tyrian Lodge No. 439
'
Horace Charles Hafley, died September 10 1960
James William Hodgson, died October 21 i960
Standard Lodge No. 440
'
Edward Leslie, died November 1, 1960
Herbert Alexander Smith, died December 31 1960
Schofield Lodge.No. 443
'
Ross Raymond Vandever, died December 18 1960
Wilshire Lodge No. 445
'
George Rey Carman, died October 13, 1960
Wade Hampton Morman, died October 27, 1960
Torrance Lodge No. 447
Earl Wesley Babcock, died August 22, 1960
Park Lodge No. 449
George Henry Gisin, died March 1, 1961
Crocker Lodge No. 454
Angus Campbell, died July 27, 1960
George J. Batz, died August 28, 1960
John Mitchell, died September 16, 1960
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458
Edgar C. Smith, died December 15, 1960
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462
John Cambell Oslin, died December 9 1960
Fred Meek Holmes, died April 17, 196i
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463
Dalton Alexander Gildersleeve, died May 28 1961
Libertas Lodge No. 466
'
Clyde Edward Mcllwain, died December 11, 1960
Harold James Wiltse, died March 18, 1961
Culver City Lodge No. 467
Curtis Jefferson Davis, died March 1, 1961
Rockridge Lodge No. 468
Ernest Winfield Whitney, died June 26, 1961

267

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lincoln Lodge No. 470
Oscar Albert Huber, died January 29, 1961
Howard Y. Low, died March 30, 1961
Temblor Lodge No. 477
Oliver Perry Goode, died March 15, 1961
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478
Otto Ludwig Zeus, died February 7, 1961
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479
Clarence Clyde Coleman, died October 17, 1960
Frank Harper Moeller, died January 23, 1961
Fellowship Lodge No. 480
James Andrew Gallagher, died December 17, 1960
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481
James Murray Kemp, died July 30, 1960
Elmo Neil Murphy, died February 19, 1961
Bell Lodge No. 483
Benjamine Partridge, died April 14, 1961
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485
Charles Victor Tamagni, died February 8, 1961
Harold Vernon Lambert, died June 12, 1961
Corcoran Lodge No. 490
Harold Handley, died December 2, 1960
Woodstock Lodge No. 491
Layton Allen Choice, died May 9, 1961
George Frederick Kohler, died May 25, 1961
Garvanza Lodge No. 492
Clyde Don Cushman, died August 24, 1960
Edward Simon Houghton, died March 23, 1961
Atascadero Lodge No. 493
Oliver Tweeton, died December 30, 1960
Melville Thomas Rhodes, died February 13, 1961
Stockton Lodge No. 498
John Preston Spaenhower, died October 7, 1960
William Albert Golding, died April 8, 1961
Frank Columbus Rountree, died April 14, 1961
Capital City Lodge No. 499
Willis Lathrop Ford, died October 13, 1960
Everett Clarence Plummer, died May 8, 1961
Westwood Lodge No. 501
Gordon Albert Parker, died April 21, 1961
Silver Cord Lodge No. 505
Theodore Samuel Hunter, died June 29, 1961
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
Fred A. Kelsey, died September 2, 1961
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509
Samuel Dickey Alrich, died April 4, 1961
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511
Ralph Leo Justus, died July 2, 1960
Palms Lodge No. 512
James Trevor Goodman, died October 5, 1960
Roy Milton Foss, died March 4, 1961
Argonne Lodge No. 514
Edward Janett Jose, died November 11, 1960
Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517
Leland Everett Langdon, died September 27, 1960
Edward Josiah Bird, died April 1, 1961
Taft Lodge No. 516
Henry Evert Barnes, died September 28, 1960
La Jolla Lodge No. 518
Clarence Elbert Johnson, died October 12, 1960
Frederick Harry Perry, died February 2, 1961

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Euclid Lodge No. 519
George William Smith, died June 9, 1961
Piedmont Lodge No. 521
Bradley Carr, died October 6, 1960
Bellflower Lodge No. 523
Charles Edwin Burlingame, died January 23, 1961
George Washington Lodge No. 525
John Johnston, died September 4, 1960
Edward Achstetter, died October 21, 1960
Theodore Alfred Brombach, died March 6, 1961
Covenant Lodge No. 527
H. H. Burkholder, died August 16, 1960
Robert Hess Willison, died January 6, 1961
Edward John Mueller, died May 24, 1961
Loyalty Lodge No. 529
Nathan Katzey, died November 1, 1960
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530
Roe Franklin Carter, died July 5, 1960
Benjamun Turner Hayes, died January 24, 196l
Henry William Herman, died January 25, 1961
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535
Thomas R. Duncan, died January 9, 1961
Archer Moresby, White, died March 21, 1961
Utopia Lodge No. 537
Arthur Thomas Mitchell, died January 11, 1961
Walter John Elder, died June 19, 1961
Ascot Lodge No. 538
Vernon Eugene Slater, died October 15, 1960
Belvedere Lodge No. 539
George Oppenheimer, died May 2, 1961
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541
Theodore Weakley Ralston, died March 2, 1961
Signal Lodge No. 543
Jesse Joseph Hill, died March 13, 1961
Laurel Otwell Stevenson, died April 16, 1961
Guy Allan eheney, died June 17, 1961
Triangle Lodge No. 548
Henry Eugene Blythe, died August 21, 1960
Seaport Lodge No. 550
Ernest Berkeley Shaw, died August 4, 1960
Lakeshore Lodge No. 551
Howard Share Gerrish, died October 10, 1960
Educator Lodge No. 554
Attilio John Cristofani, died August 22, 1960
Point Firmin Lodge No. 558
Ernest Claire Stinson, died November 12, 1960
Karl Vorhes Haney, died February 26, 1961
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559
Kenneth William Gray, died December 25, 1960
Pyramid Lodge No. 562
Frank David MacBeth, died March 17, 1961
West Adams Lodge No. 565
Frank Ridgely Brown, died September 5, 1960
James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566
Walter Esli Pinney, died July 11, 1960
Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568
Charles Herbert Adams, died March 6, 1961
Benjamin Walker Bours, died May 17, 1961
James Madison Lodge No. 572
Harrison Winters, died May 31, 1961

269

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hillcrest Lodge No. 573
Courtney L. Barham, died December 13, 1960
Donald Franklin Thompson Parkin, died December 23 1960
'
Stanley Wallace Cosby, died January 20, 1961
Fort Crook Lodge No. 575
Stuart Dodds Samson, died February 18, 1961
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577
Albert James York, died August 3, 1960
Harding Lodge No. 584
John Hinton Graves, died August 8, 1960
Louis Erwin Sage, died October 30, 1960
Manchester Lodge No. 585
Judson T. Sparks, died July 2, 1960
Garden Grove Lodge No. 586
Warren Grant Fergus, died January 29, 1961
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587
George Leroy Eads, died October 29, 1960
Service Lodge No. 594
James Andrew Lynch, died October 28, 1960
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595
Clyde Vernon Stoner, died November 12, 1960
Frank Lyle Robertson, died December 6, 1960
Guardian Lodge No. 596
William Frank South, died May 19, 1961
Dimond Lodge No. 603
Benjamin Lewis Wade, died September 2, 1960
Jubilee Lodge No. 604
Willard Oliver Patterson, died March 18, 1961
Sojourner Lodge No. 607
Albert Pedersen, died May 18, 1961
Provident Lodge No. 609
Roy Van Bailey, died November 25, 1960
James Adna Leonard Wells, died March 3, 1961
Temple City Lodge No. 612
Ben K. Wilson, died March 26, 1961
William Harold Benson, died April 13, 1961
Three Pillars Lodge No. 613
James Henry Phillips, died August 12, 1960
John Laurence Bird, died August 30, 1960
Larchmont Lodge No. 614
William Howard Baxter, died July 18, 1960
Southland Lodge No. 618
Harry Lee Lewallen, died September 12, 1960
The Gardens Lodge No. 621
Will DeBord, died December 15, 1960
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625
Paul Dever McGraw, died February 28, 1961
Truth Lodge No. 628
Henry William Westman, died December 29, 1960
Benevolence Lodge No. 631
Thomas Albert Ray, died April 10, 1961
Normal Heights Lodge No. 632
George Francis Stewart, died February 2, 1961
Poinsettia Lodge No. 633
Robert Jean Campbell, died August 8, 1950
Riverside Lodge No. 635
Truman Arthur Mitchell, died September 17, 1960
John Henry Prater, died December 25, 1960
John Marshall Lodge No. 636
George Elton Barnes, died January 14, 1961

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

271

Palisades Lodge No. 637
Vorce Porter, died September 9, 1960
Cecil Lee Lacy, died October 21, 1960
Thomas Mawhinney, died November 19 1960
_Kenneth H. Andrews, died February 16; 1961
Ver1tas Lodge No. 640
Winfield Attenborough, died July 18, 1960
Percy Archibald Millar, died March 15, 1961
A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. 645
Erik Edwin Mattson, died August 30, 1960
Leonard Gordon Burkett, died November 12 1 1960
Arthur Eugene Genter, died January 4, 1961
Heng Powers Haynes, died April 7, 1961
Metropolitan Lodge No. 646
Andrew Maselle, died January 1, 1961
George Eisen, died June 11, 1961
Florence Lodge No. 649
Raymond C. Menker, died January 13, 1961
Fontana Lodge No. 653
Francis B. Williams, died January 20, 1961
Jordan Lodge No. 654
Richard Thomas Prime, died October 22 1960
'
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655
Thomas Irwin Lingo, died February 19, 1961
Homer M. Betz, died May 10, 1961
John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657
Lowry Jack Benbrook, died February 25, 1961
Malta Lodge No. 661
Thirlstane D. Bruce, died May 18, 1961
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662
Dewey Tilman Dahl, died November 2, 1960
Jack L. Patterson, died February 15, 1961
Reseda Lodge No. 666
Lee Willis Miller, died December 18, 1960
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668
Eddie Vander Loof Robinson, died June 20, 1961
John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669
Ray Morgan Elam, died December 9, 1960
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670
Warren R. Fitch, died February 11, 1961
Far West Lodge No. 673
Nante Walter Anderson, died February 3, 1961
Modesto Lodge No. 675
Joseph Milton McCarty, died October 1, 1961
Altadena Lodge No. 678
Robert Horton Peddycod, died March 10, 1961
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679
Alwyn Briffin Boyd, died October 30, 1960
Edgar Malcolm Mitchell, died February 27, 1961
Carmel Lodge No. 680
Andrew Enrico Del Monte, died August 17, 1960
Oildale Lodge No. 688
Ralph Eikema, died September 4, 1960
San Juan Lodge No. 732
Earl Henry Cummings, died June 14, 1961
Oasis of Mara Lodge No. 735
Randy Jacob Murphy, died July 2, 1960
James H. Kew Lodge No. 766
Thomas Lenard Bennett, died January 18, 1961
Southern California Research Lodge
Lee Dotson Mathews, died June 11, 1961

At 11 :45 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. Thursday.

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

No. 1687-A member of Ingleside Lodge No. 630, Acquitted, December
6, 1960.
No. 1688-A member of Crocker Lodge No. 454, Expelled, September
6, 1960.
No. 1690--A member of Naval Lodge No. 87, Expelled, October 6,
1960.
No. 1691-A member of Sunnyside Lodge No. 577, Acquitted, November 7, 1960.
No. 1692-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247, Expelled, October
14, 1960.
No. 1694-A member of Arcadia Lodge No. 547, Expelled, October
6, 1960.
No. 1695-A member of Glendale Lodge No. 544, Expelled, December
1, 1960.
No. 1696-A member of Lexington Lodge No. 104, Expelled, December 5, 1960.
No. 1697-A member of Oceanside Lodge No. 381, Expelled, November 7, 1960.
No. 1698-A member of Modesto Lodge No. 675, Expelled, December
7, 1960.
No. 1700-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35, Expelled, January
6, 1961.
No. 1702-A member of Bethlehem Lodge No. 453, Expelled, January
5, 1961.
No. 1705-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35, Suspended, March
3, 1961.
No. 1707-A member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632, Expelled,
April 3, 1961.
No. 1708-A member of Arvin Lodge No. 738, Expelled, March 13,
1961.
No. 1709-A member of Lakeside Lodge No. 760, Expelled, April 14, .
1961.
No. 1710--A member of a lodge in New York, Expelled by Downey
Lodge No. 220, April 6, 1961 .
No. 1711-A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488, Acquitted, October
13, 1960.
No. 1712-A member of Tujunga Lodge No. 592, Expelled, January
3, 1961.
No. 1713---A member of Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361, ExpeMed, May
2, 1961.
No. 1714-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, Acquitted, April
7, 1961.
No. 1715-A member of Downey Lodge No. 220, Expelled June 1,
1961.

MORNING SESSION-THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1961
At 9:30 o'clock Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master
presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The
minutes of the morning session of Wednesday, September 27th, were
read and approved.
The Grand Master reported that the new sound film covering the
activities of the Masonic Clubhouse at the University of California,
Los Angeles, had been projected prior to the opening and had been
enjoyed by a large number of the delegates.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances reports as follows:
The Committee has considered 60 trial records, of which 37 will be
covered by this report. The remainder will be subjects of special reports.
There are a few matters which we wish to stress.
A copy of charges should always be sent to the Grand Secretary
as required by Section 691 of the Masonic Code. It would be ~ell to
notify the Grand Secretary of commencing the procedure calle? .automatic expulsion" under Section 732 of the Code, although this is not
specifically required. Section 732 should be used whenever an accused
Mason ·h as been convicted of a crime classed as a felony and has served
any time pursuant thereof. This means time served in a prison or in a
county jail, road camp, or state hospital as a sexual psychopath (an~
not as mentally ill) so long as the crime was one "classed as a f~o~y.
However, if a person is given straight probation on a felony conviction,
without any imprisonment as a part of it, Section 732 may not be used.
In these and all other matters affecting our disciplinary procedure,
a careful reading of the Code and of the trial guide is recommended.
In the following trial records we find no prejudicial errors nor miscarriages of justice. All procedure has been substantially proper and
the evidence in each case supported tlhe result obtained:
No. 1595-A member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529, Expelled, January
5, 1960.
No. 1602-A member of Selma Lodge No. 277, Expelled September
14, 1960.
No. 1623-A member of Norwalk Lodge No. 315, Expelled, April
5. 1960.
No. 1628~A member of Ashlar Lodge No. 306, Expelled, March 2,
1%1.

273

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

274

No. 1716-A member of Monrovia Lodge No. 308, Expelled, April
1 1
Apprentice of Castro Valley Lodge No. 713,
No. 1717-in
Expelled, April 6, 1961.
No. 1718-A member of Willits Lodge No. 365, Acquitted, May 3,
.
1961.
No. 1719-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655, Expelled, April
6, 1961.
No. 1720-A member of Starr King Lodge No. 344, Reprimand ordered, July 5, 1961.
No. 1721--.A member of John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669, Expelled,
June 6, 1961.
No. 1722-A member of Seaside Lodge No. 504, Expelled, August 2,
1961.
No. 1723-An Entered Apprentice of Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511, Expelled, July 11. 1961.
No. 1724-A member of Truckee Lodge No. 200, Expelled, August 3,
1961.
No. 1725-A member of El Rancho Lodge No. 759, Expelled, November 3, 1960.
No. 1727-A member of South San Francisco Lodge No. 212, Expelled, September 7. 1961.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D, that in each of the trial records above mentioned the
action taken be ratified, affirmed and approved.
Respectfully, submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross
ALBERT c. WoLLENBERG
BYRON c. MORTON
JAY A. ROBINSON
WILLIAM B. NEELEY
FOLGER EMERSON
FRANK B. PEEBLES

~ t~red

Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1554
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member of Mendocino Lodge No. 179 was expelled by that lodge
in 1957, that action was reversed by Grand Lo.dge in 1958, and the
record sent back for further proceedings. Nothing has been reported
by the lodge on this matter. We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D, that the Grand Master direct Mendocino Lodge No.
179 to proceed with this matter promptly. and it is continued to the
next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

275

TRIAL RECORDS NOS. 1594, 1596, 1597, and 1607
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In each of these records the accused was expelled after proper proceedings, the charge being a violation of the edict of the Grand Master
concerning the Royal Order of Caritas, etc. The edict has since been
repealed. This, of itself, does not justify the offense for w'hic'h each of
these accused Masons was charged. It was the violation of the edict
while it was in force and effect that constituted the offense. However,
there was no real moral turpitude in any of these cases. Each of these
expelled men has now asked for restoration, and the record indicates
that each is ,a moral man and a good citizen, repentant of his offense.
We feel that restoration of each would be proper.
'rhe accused in 1594 was a member of a North Carolina Lodge,
expelled by Argonaut Lodge No. 461.
The accused in 1596 and 1597 were both members of Alcatraz Lodge
No. 244.
The accused in 1607 was a member of Fellowship Lodge No. 480.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D, that each of the accused in Trial Records Nos. 1594,
1596, 1597, and 1607 be restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1660
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
There is a petition for restoration in this case. The accused was expelled over two years ago by Torrance Lodge No. 447, the charge
being falsification of his petition for the degrees in that he did not disclose that he had been elected by a lodge in West Virginia some years
before and had received the first degree but had been stopped from
advancemen t by that lodge.
1
At this time, the accused seems to be of good repute in his community
and his petition for restoration has much supporting data.
However, it is our opinion that tlhis accused cannot legally be restored in this jurisdiction. As an Entered Apprentice he is still within
the perpetual jurisdiction of West Virginia. Inquiry from that grand
jurisdiction indicates that he has never been suspended nor expelled
there and is still an Entered Apprentice of his lodge, although not in
good standing.
Grand Master Perine rendered a decision reported in the 1908
Proceedings of Grand Lodge at page 39 in which he said in part, "The
Grand Lodge of California recognizes perpetual jurisdiction only when

277

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

an applicant has been elected and initiated by ~he lodge to which he
applied."
According to Landmark Sixteenth. no lodge can give degrees to
brethren who are members of other lodges.
Torrance Lodge had no right to elect this accused and give him the
degrees, and would not have done so if he had not concealed the fact
that he was already an Entered Apprentice elsewhere. Having been
expelled, the accused is in the same position he was before petitioning
Torrance Lodge. His only recourse is to ask for advancement in the
lodge in West Virginia.
For these reasons we must recommend denial of the petition, and
we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the petition for restoration of the accused in
Trial Record No. 1660 be denied.
Adopted.

The petition for restoration is accompanied by several letters of
recommendation and your Committee also heard remarks in behalf of
the petitioner by members of this Grand Lodge.
While your Committee recognizes the rehabilitation of the petitioner
up to this time, it cannot overlook the fact that petitioner is still under
probation of the court which does not expire until December 8, 1962 and
feels that petitioner should wait until all the terms and conditions of his
probation be completed to the satisfaction of the Court.
THEREFORE, be it resolved that the petition for restoration to all
the rights and privileges of Masonry be denied.
Adopted.

276

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1675
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to whom was referred the petition
for restoration to all rights ,a nd privileges of Masonry of a former member of Garvanza Lodge No. 492 has carefully considered the same and
reports as follows:
Petitioner, a pharmacist. was convicted in the Superior Court of
Los Angeles County of violation of Section No. 11715, Health and
Safety Code of California. The judgment of the court was that petitioner be sentenced to one year in jail. suspended for three years and
given three ( 3) years probation. The judgment was rendered on December 8, 1959 and probation expires on December 8, 1962 if petitioner
conducts himself in a manner satisfactory to the court.
Petitioner also received 'five years probation from die State Board
of Pharmacy of the State of California but was permitted to continue
with a valid license while on probation.
Petitioner was charged with Masonic offenses and petitioner entered
no plea and upon investigation by the Worshipful Master of Garvanza
Lodge No. 492, was found guilty of all five specifications and ordered
the penalty to be a reprimand.
Your Committee on Grievances at the 1960 Annual Communication
investigated this case in detail and carefully considered all evidence
presented to it orally at the time and recommended the penalty be raised
to suspension, which finding was affirmed by this Grand Lodge.
After this judgment was affirmed and petitioner notified, he made
certain threats against officers and members of his former lodge as well
as members of this Committee of Grand Lodge. Your Committee is
willing to overlook this as a reaction of bitterness which it considers
understandable in view of the fact that petitioner now indicates his
regret over his attitude at that time.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1699
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In this trial record El Cerrito Lodge No. 705 took action under 732
Masonic Code to expel a member who had been convicted of two
felonies in New Mexico. However the judgment in die state court
showed that accused was not imprisoned as a result of his conviction,
but that sentence had been suspended and that he had been turned
over to the State of Texas for trial for similar felony charges there.
The proceedings based on the New Mexico conviction are therefore
improper under 732 Masonic Code, and we must reverse the same.
(However, we are informed that die accused was later convicted in
Texas and sentenced to prison and proper proceedings in the lodge are
now taking place to expel him. If the accused is expelled because of
the Texas conviction, no further action on the New Mexico conviction
wiU be needed:)
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the expulsion of the accused in Trial Record
No. 1699 by El Cerrito Lodge No. 705 be reversed and remanded to
the lodge for further procedure, if necessary.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1701
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In Trial No. 1701 the accused, a member of Los Cerritos Lodge No.
674, was found guilty by a Trial Commission of attempting to cheat,
wrong and defraud a brother Mason in the sum of $12,500. As a result
of the finding of guilty of this charge the Trial Commission ordered
· that he be suspended.
There is confticting evidence as to whether the accused was attempting to negotiate a legitimate business transaction for the sale of a piece
of real property to a brotlher Mason at a profit of $12,500 or whether
he was actually attempting to defraud him of $12,500. After examining
the entire record your Committee finds that there is sufficient evidence

279

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to support the Trial Commission's finding of guilty of the charge and
also of unmasonic conduct.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the finding of Guilty of the Charge and of Unmasonic Conduct in Trial Record No. 1701 be affirmed. That the
penalty whereby the accused is suspended from all the rights and
privileges of Masonry also be affirmed.
Adopted.

ADDITIONAL TRIAL RECORDS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The reports of the Committee on Grievances in the following trial
records would not be of value to ·any but the persons or Lodges directly
interested, and they will receive copies. .Jt seems unnecessary to print
these reports in the Proceedings of Grand Lodge:
No. 1105-Petition for restoration granted. Former member of Pacific
Lodge No. 136.
No. 1141-Petition for restoration granted. Former member of a New
York lodge.
No. 1145-Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Whittier
Lodge No. 323.
No. 1157-Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Downey
Lodge No. 220.
No. 1316-Petition for restoration denied. Former member of East
Gate Lodge No. 290.
No. 1483--Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Damascus Lodge No. 648.
No. 1530--Approval of restoration of suspended member by East San
Diego Lodge No. 561.
No. 1630--Petition for restoration denied. Former member of Fresno
Lodge No. 247.
No. 1671-Petition for restoration granted. Former member of South
Park Lodge No. 563.
No. 1693--Penalty raised. A member of John D. Spreckels Lodge
No. 657. Expelled by Grand Lodge.
No. 1703--Penalty raised. Expelled by Grand Lodge. A member of
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655.
No. 1706-Penalty raised. Expelled by Grand Lodge. A member of
Crockett Lodge No. 139.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the reports in the trial records above set out be
not printed in the published Proceedings of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

278

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1704
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
A member of Harding Lodge No. 584 was charged with tending bar
in violation of Section 513, Masonic Code. He did not enter a plea and
under Section 692.4, Masonic Code, the Master found him guilty and
ordered suspension.
Section 513, Masonic Code, requires that any violator "shall forfeit
all Masonic rights and privileges." Grand Lodge has always required
expulsion in these cases.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the ·finding of guilt in Trial Record No. 1704
be approved but that tfue penalty be raised and that the accused be
expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORD NO. 1726
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A suspended member of Fort Crook Lodge No. 575 was, until his
suspension, a dual member in that Lodge and in Guadalajara Lodge No.
5 of the York Grand Lodge of 1Mexico.
The Grand Master of the Yark Grand Lodge of Mexico suspended
him from all the rights and privileges of Masonry as of 6/20/60. The
suspension was approved at the 1961 Communication of the York
Grand Lodge of Mexico.
On 5/9/61, Fort Crook Lod!'.Je No. 575 suspended the member
under Sec. 432, subdivision ( 6), CMC. The member has appealed to
this Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Grievances has some 4oubt concerning the
appealability of the matter and the jurisdiction of this committee. There
is some feeling that Sec. 432 might be re-examined ·and interpreted in·
sofar as it relates to the effect on a California Mason of action by a
foreign Grand Lodge whidh mig'ht deprive him of his Masonic rights
in this jurisdiction.
Your committee therefore recommends that the matter of the interpretation of Sec. 432 CMC be referred to the incoming Grand Master
for appropriate action.
Adopted.

TRIAL MANUAL
(29)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Resolution No. 29 concerning the appointment of a special committee to prepare a trial form book has been referred to both the Policy
and General Purposes Committee and the Committee on Grievances.
The latter Committee, while having great respect for the author of the
resolution as an outstanding member of this Grand Lodge, has doubt of
the necessity of a new trial form book. The little Trial Outline which

280

~RAND

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

was originally prepared by our present Grand Master, and which has
been kept up to date from year to year, seems .to state the procedure
for trials in simple language and reference is made throughout t~ the
proper sections of the Masonic Code. The Grand Secretary furnishes
forms to Lodges requesting them which cover almost all procedure.
Most of these forms are set out verbatim in t!he Masonic Code.
A special committee would entail some expense, and the publication
of a form book would cost a considerable sum at best. If Masters or
Trial Masters do not read the present Trial Outline and the pertinent
Code Sections carefully, they would do no better with a new form book.
We move the adoption of t'he resolution and recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their
concurre~ce in the recommendation.
Adopted.
At 12: 05 Grand Lodge was called off until 1 : 30 p.m.

LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thurs day, September 28, 1961
At 1 :30 o'clock Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master pre.siding. The invocatiion was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENC E
(Items reported at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.}
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 5 A. M. of California:
DECISIONS

RESOLVED: That the Grand Master's Decisions numbered 1 and
3 be approved, and number 2 disapproved for the reason that number 2
is covered by adoption of Grand Master's Recommendation No. VIII.
We move adoption of this resolution and urge a yes vote.
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
Os CAR LAWLER
LOUIS C. DRAPEAU
WAKEFIELD TAYLOR
LEO E. ANDERSON
HENRY C. CLAUSEN
}OE L. SHELL
JosEPH G. BowERs
HOWARD LANGWORTHY

DISPENSATION S APPROVED
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has reviewed the special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the past year, and his approval
of resolutions relative to life memberships. Included were a few matters
handled by Past Grand Master Joe L. Shell during 1960 Which were not
previously approved.
We feel that aU the acts of the Grand Masters in regard to these
matters have been in compliance wit'h the requirements of our law. We
recommend that special dispensations and life membership resolutions
above referred to be approved.
Adopted.

282

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TIME OF PAYMENT TO GRAND LODGE

Repeal subsections 7th and 8th and insert in lieu thereof the
following:
7th. For the Annual Proceedings, other publications, blanks and
supplies required by Grand Lodge to be produced and sold,
such sum or sums as fixed from time to time by the Grand
Secretary.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
'Dhe Committee on Policy and General Purposes and on Finance
indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

(25)
Respecting Resolution No. 25 by Grand Secretary Siems, we report
as follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 285 CMC be amended as follows:
Strike the first sentence and insert in lieu thereof the following:
All contributions for Masonic Homes collected by a Lodge shall
be transmitted to the Grand Secretary at the times and in the
manner as spedfied on forms provided for that purpose.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
The Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Finance
indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

MEMORIAL CONTRIBUTIO NS
(26)
Respecting Resolution No. 26 by Grand Secretary Siems, we report
as follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 287 GMC be amended as follows:
Strike the words in the second line reading "in the preceding
section" and insert in lieu thereof:
in Section 284
Strike the words in the first sentence reading "each Lodge shall
transmit such contributions to the Grand Secretary quarterly on
the first day of October, January, April and July subsequent to
the initiation of the candidate" and insert in lieu thereof the following:
all such contributions shall be transmitted by the Lodge to the
Grand Secretary at the times and in the manner as specified
on forms provided for that purpose.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
'Dhe Committee on Policy and General Purposes and on Finance
indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

283

DUTIES OF GRAND SECRETARY
(28)
Respecting Resolution No. 28 by Grand Secretary Siems, we report
as follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 150 CMC be amended as follows:
1. Change subsection "20th" to 21st.
2. Insert a new subsection reading as follows:
"20th. To forward one copy of the Annual Proceedings to each
Lodge annually, without Charge."
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
'Dhe Committee on Policy and General Purposes and on Finance
indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

RECOMMENDA TION VII
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLVED: That Sec. 432-6 C.M.C. 1960 Supplement be repealed. This will restore Sec. 432-6 as it now exists in our main Code
volume.
We move the adoption of the resolution and ret:ommend a yes vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.
Section 432-6 as it appears in the 1960 Supplement was not changed.

FEES

RECOMMENDA TION vm

(27)
Respecting Resolution No. 27 by Grand Secretary Siems. we report
as follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 281 CMC be amended as follows:

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLVED: That Sec. 490 CJM.C. be amended as follows:
After the words "Constituent Lodges" in line 5 insert the following:
"Provided, however, that where a Master, who has been regularly
elected or named in a charter and installed as Master of a chartered

284

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lodge, dies while serving as Master, may by resolution of his Lodge
be designated as a Past Master of said Lodge.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated t'heir concurrence in the recommendation.
The resolution was adopted by a 5/6 vote.

We believe that the report of the Special Committee on Visual Aids
which was adopted by Grand Lodge in 1959 adequately covered the
objects sought by this resolution.
First, it recommended no change in the presentation and lectures
of the three degrees, which means that no use can be made of visual
aids in the conferring of the three degrees, other than those Which are
now an integral part of our ritual.
Second, it suggested that there was a place in the Lodge building
for appropriate physical representations, but that these should not be
a part of any ritual.
Third, it suggested that Masonic education programs were possible
to be built around visual representations of the degrees, but that these
likewise should not be a part of the ritual and should be designed to
supplement the degree experiences even as the Seminars conducted by
the Research Lodges.
Thus, the use of visual aids has been outlined by the 1959 report, and
the Master is fully authorized to make use of so-called visual aids in
an educational program which would be supplemental to the degrees,
but not as part of the ritual.
The means of carrying out the recommendations and suggestions of
the Special Committee are already within the grasp of the Master of the
Lodge, and all that is required of him is a little work and planning and
ingenuity on his part in preparing and presenting such a program. If
he needs any assistance, he can readily secure it from any of the Research Lodges or from the Committee on Masonic Education, which
exist for the purpose of rendering such assistance, and which are freely
offering their services to the Lodges.
It is therefore our opinion that a new committee is wholly unnecessary, and accordingly we recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
We move the adoption of the resolution, but the committee recommends a no vote
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated their concurrence in the
recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON SCHOLARSHIPS

The report of the Special Committee on Scholarships has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. Their report
clearly indicates that the scholarship program as originally conceived
has not been effective. Although modifications in the rules under which
the program is to operate have been proposed, your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes believes that these suggested changes will not
materially affect t!he attractiveness of the scholarships, and, despite the
unquestioned worthiness of its goal, the program should be discontinued. We have been informed that the Special Committee on Scholarships also believes the program should be discontinued.
We, therefore, move that the Special Committee be commended and
thanked for its work, and that the Committee be discharged.
The Committee on Finance indicated their concurrence.
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
LESLIE E. WooD
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN
OrroRoHWER
ELBERT
DAVIS
HARVEY E. McCARTHY
GEORGE H. HIMES
LLOYD E. WILSON
EDGAR V. STEWART, JR.
THEODORE MERIAM

w.

VISUAL AIDS
( 5)
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
Resolution No. 5 by Brother Getsinger, Master of La Jolla Lodge, for
the appointment of a new Visual Aids Committee to recommend "appropriate uses of visual aids for each of the three degrees."

285

TfilRD DEGREE PROFICIENCY
(6)
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred Resolution No. 6 by the Master and Wardens of Lemon Grove
Lodge No. 736, requesting that the incoming Grand Master appoint
a special committee to work out details, procedures and feasibility of
mandatory proficiency in the third degree, have considered this resolution.
The proposal to compel proficiency in the candidate's lecture of the
third degree has been before this Grand Lodge on several occasions
since the adoption of that lecture a little more than fifty years ago. The
proposal has been rejected each time it was presented.

286

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The candidate who has received his third degree and signed the
by-laws is a member and we do not believe t!here are any feasible means
of compulsory enforcement of proficiency. The proponents of this resolution have suggested none.
Grand Lodge has provided certificates of proficiency for presentation to those members who learn the work and pass a satisfactory
examination. We believe that the Master, Officers and Coaches of our
Lodges can induce voluntary compliance if they follow the matter up
promptly after conferring of the third degree. Proficiency :is now a
requirement of receiving any degree or being initiated in any Lodge or
organization the prerequisite of membership in which is that a person
be a Master Mason. These Should be sufficient inducements or incentives to learning the necessary work to acquire proficiency.
A<:cordingly, while we are wholly sympathetic with the purposes of
the resolution, we recommend that it be not adopted.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

PUBLIC SCHOOIS WEEK OBSERVANCE
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it Resolution No. 19 which would restrict a Mason residing in California from attending the meetings (during Public Schools Week) of
any organrization which requires Masonic affiliation or relationship as
a prerequisite to membership.
Your Committee feels that Public Schools Week is an important
and necessary function of the Fraternity and is so recognized not only
in California but in other jurisdictions as well and deserves the wholehearted support of all Masons.
We agree with the statement in the resolution, that so called affiliated
organizations are in sympathy with the aims and purposes of Public
Schools Week, but for the most part have not adopted legislation
concerning it; but to place the restriction that no Mason can attend
meetings of these organizations would not. in our opinion. cause more
of them to attend Public Schools Week meetings. No man appreciates
being told what he must do. We feel that the proper and reasonable
solution to this problem is for the Grand Master, early in his term, to
address a communication to the heads of these organizations requesting
that no meetings be held by their respective groups or Lodges and that
they urge upon their members the importance of supporting Public
Schools Week. We are of the opinion that legislation in this matter is
not necessary and would not accompliish the desired results.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes therefore moves
the resolution and recommends a no vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated their concurrence in the
recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

287

COMMERCIALI SM
There has been referred to your Commiittee on Policy and General
Purposes that portion of the Grand Master's message relating to commercialism and included in the message as Exhibit XIII. Your Committee has carefully reviewed the regulations set forth in the exhibit
and is in hearty agreement therewith.
Your Committee recommends that the regulations and directives
applying thereto, as included in the Grand Master's Exhibit XIII, be
approved by this Grand Lodge.
The Committee on Commercialism indicated their concurrence in
the recommendation.
Adopted.

COMBINED COMMITTEE REPORTS

(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)

RECOMMENDA TIONS I AND II
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which were
referred Resolution No. 9 and also the Grand Master's Recommendations Nos. I and II, reports as follows:
Both Resolution No. 9 and the Grand •M aster's Recommendation
No. I would return the d·a tes of our Annual Communication to the
second week in October of each year. That week was the period during
which all Annual Communications were held from 1864 through 1955,
and members of the Craft throughout the jurisdiction became accustomed to that p~od.
As noted by the Grand Master, both the brethren in the agricultural
communities and the brethren who are concerned with tax accounting
periods in their business find the last week of September an inconvenient
time to attend our Annual Communications. Furthermore, there are
other statewide organizations who - for many years past - have
been accustomed to holding their meetings during the last week in
September. A return to our former practice would eliminate many
conflicts.
Your Committee. therefore, recommends that the Recommendation
No. I of the Grand Master be adopted. If that recommendation is
adopted by Grand Lodge, no action will be necessary as to Resolution
No.9.
The Grand Master's Recommendation H that Section 343 of the
Masonic Code be amended was conditioned upon the adoption of his
Recommendation No. I. In other words. if the date of our Annual
Communication is to be changed to the second week in October, then
some action should be taken to provide that the monthly stated meeting
of any Lodge now scheduled for the second week in October should

288

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

be held during the following week. We concur in the Grand Master's
recommendation and we therefore recommend that his Recommendation
No. 2 be adopted.
The Committee on furisprudence:
The Grand Master's Recommendation No. 1 and Resolution No. 9
by Brother Wakefield Taylor et al have the same import. On them we
report as follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 101 OMC be amended to rread as follows:
Each Annual Communication shall be held in the City
and County of San Frrancisco commencing on the second
Monday of October at ten o'clock A.M. provided, however, that any Annual Communication may be held at any
other place in the State of California upon the adoption
by this Grand Lodge at any previous Communication by
a five-sixths vote of a resolution so providing.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote.
The Committee on furisprudence:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 343 CMC be amended by adding after the words "legal
holidays" the following: or during the Annual Communication of
Grand Lodge. The Section will then read as follows:
Section 1. The stated meetings of this Lodge shall be
holden ............................ in each month, at ....................... .
o'clock .... m.; except that in any month when the regular
meeting date <Shall fall on ........................ or ....................... .
legal holidays, or during the Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge, the Stated Meeting shall be holden on
the .................. of ...................... month at ................ m.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

RECOMMENDA TION ill
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been referred to your Committe on Policy and General
Purposes the recommendation of the Most Worshipful Grand Master
that the office of Judge Advocate be abolished.
Since competent legal advice is available to the Grand Master from
members of the Committee on Jurisprudence and other competent
lawyers, we feel that the office of Judge Advocate is unnecessary an~
therefore concur in the recommendation of the Grand Master that 1t
be eliminated.

289

The Committee on furisprudence:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 8 CMC - Con<Stitution be amended as follows:
Strike the words "and a Judge Advocate."
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote

The Committee on furisprudence:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 157 CMIC be repealed.
We move the adoption of the resolution and -recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote

RECOMMENDA TION IV
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it Recommendation No. IV of the Grand Master, proposing to
change the name of the Committee on Lodge Financing and to increase
the personnel of that committee from nine to eleven members.
It is recognized that, in some instances, the name of the Committee
on Lodge Financing is misleading and that that Committee might,
on occasion, be confused with the Committee on Finance. It is, however, the opinion of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
that the name proposed in the recommendation as an alternative would
not more adequately describe the functions and activities of the committee in question, but would itself tend to further mislead and confuse.
With respect to the recommendation that the membership of the
committee be increased, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes finds that the personnel of the existing committee is of the opinion
that an increase in personnel is unnecessary, and would in fact cause
Lts operation to be un:wieldy and cumbersome and would furtther unnecessarily increase the operating expense of the committee. In this
opinion your Policy and General Purposes Committee concurs.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes therefore recommends that the recommendation of the Grand Master be not approved.
We move the adoption of this report.
The Committee on furisprudence:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 192 C.M.C. be amended as follows:
Strike the words "on Lodge Financing" in line 4 and insert

290

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

the words on Temple Construction and Operations after the
words "on Chartel'S" in line 5.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

RESOLVED:
·That Sec. 176 C.M.C. be amended as follows:
Strike the words "Lodge Financing" in line 4 and insert
in lieu thereof the words Temple Construction and Operations.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

RESOLVED:
That Sec. 200 C.M.C. be amended as follows:
Strike the words "Lodge Financing" in line 5 and insert in
lieu thereof Temple Construction and Operations.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

RECOMMENDATION V
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred the Grand Master's recommendation No. V, reports as follows:
The Grand Master recommends that Annotation 199-i be repealed.
That Annotation summarizes a 1959 ruling made by Grand Master Phil
N. Myers and approved by Grand Lodge that "the sale of alcoholic
liquor in Mason<ic Temple property is prohibited under any circumstances, and a department store leasing ground floor space may not be
permitted to maintain a package liquor department."
Grand Master Breslauer states that various Temple Associations
and Lodges owning real property are handicapped b~. the rul!~g. just
quoted and he reasons that since the operator of an off-sale liquor
store is eligible for Masonic membership, it is inconsistent to forbid
the sale of packaged liquor by a store tenant of a Masonic Temple
Association.
It seems to this Committee that the reasons stated are insufficient
to justify the reversal of the action taken by Grand Lodge in 1959.
For many years it has been the consistent policy of Grand Lodge to
avoid bringing the Craft into disrepute and to avoid criticism of the
Fraternity by reason of any action which might appear to associate the
Fraternity directly or indirectly with the traffic in alcoholic be~erages.
In our opinion, the ruling made by Grand Master Myers m 1959
was a necessary and desirable implementation of that policy. We are
not informed that any considerable number of Lodges or Temple Associations have been or are handicapped by reason of the ruling, and we
believe the ruling should stand.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

291

We, therefore, recommend that Recommendation No. V made by
the Grand Master be not approved.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:

RESOLVED:
Tlhat Sec. 199-i C.M.C. be repealed.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

RECOMMENDATION VI
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been ref erred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes the recommendation of the Grand Master relative to admissions to the Home for Children at Covina.
It is recognized that residence in the Home is rapidly decreasing
and that at the present time it cares for only 47 children or 26% of its
capacity. However, your committee feels that more study should be
given the subject before the laws of Grand Lodge are amended to
change the rules for admission and that time does not permit that study
during this session of Grand Lodge.
We therefore recommend that a special committee be appointed
by the incoming Grand Master to thoroughly explore the subject and
to report their findings at the next Communication of Grand Lodge.
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes and the Committee on Finance
indicated their willingness to accept the recommendation of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committee on furisprudence:

RESOLVED:
That Sec. 223 C.M.C. be amended by adding at the end thereof
the following:
Provided that said Trustees shall have the power to admit
to the Home for Children at Covina the minor next of kin of
Master Masons of this and other jurisdictions under such rules,
terms and conditions as said Board of Trustees may prescribe
subject to the approval of the Grand Master.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
The resolution was adopted by a 5/6 vote.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
(7 and 8)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred Resolutions numbered 7 and 8 proposing elimination of the
requirements of physical qualification, have carefully considered these
proposals.

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The physical requirement s for qualification of candidates for the
degrees of Masonry are probably as old as .Masonry itself. These requirements are a survival of operative Masonry and are peculiar to the
Masonic institution. One of the Ancient Landmarks stated by Dr.
Mackey is the "qualification of candidates for initiation."
A natural sympathy for those unfortunate people who have suffered
severe physical injuries has caused numerous proposals to change the
old requirements and these have been presented throughout the history
of our Grand Lodge. They have been rejected except for the compromise
which resulted in the adoption of our present regulation many years
ago, now contained in Sections 51 ,1 and 512 of the California Masonic
Code: "having no maim or defect in his body that may render him
incapable of learning the art, and physically able to conform substantially to what the several degrees respectively require of him." Under
this regulation, the question as to physical sufficiency of the applicant
is left to the sound discretion of the Lodge, and it is determined by the
ritual.
Since the rule of physical qualification has existed for so long that
it is regarded as one of the ancient landmarks, it should not be changed
without some change in all conditions which would compel it. We may
properly inquire what change has occurred in the conditions of the
Craft which would now require a dhange in the ancient regulation. We
know of none.
If these proposals were adopted, it would require a different ritual
for each case of physical defect, depending upon the nature of the particular deformity. This would completely destroy any uniformity in
the ritual. Under our law the conferring of a degree in merely a symbolic
manner is out of the question. ( C.M.C., Sec. 512-j)
The most appalling thing about the elimination of physical requirements would be that it would subject a man who may have suffered a
repulsive physical injury to the required unanimous ballot with _the
great probability that some one or more of the members would reJect
him. The resulting damage to an already damaged personality would
be incalculable and irreparable. It would be far kinder to reject such
candidates on purely legal grounds.
In our opinion, this Grand Lodge has already gone as far in meeting physical insufficiency as it can reasonably go, making it depend
upon the applicant's ability to conform substantiall y to what the ritual
may require of him.
We recommend that the resolutions be not adopted, and in view
of the fact that they would repeal Sections 511 and 512 of the Ordinances, we suggest that a 5/6ths vote would be required to adopt.
We move the adoption of the resolutions, but your Committee
recommends a no vote.

The Committee on furisprudence:
We present the following:
Resolutions Nos. 7 and 8 should be defeated, for the following
reasons:
1. Both infringe Landmark Eighteenth ( C.M.C. p. 343).
2. Grand Lodge itself is limited by a strict adherence to the Ancient
Landmarks of our Order (Sec. 17 C.M.C. - Constitution ).
3. "A candidate must be without blemish and have the full and
proper use of his limbs: for a maimed man can do the Craft no good."
(Old York Constitution of 926, Article 5 C.M.C. p. 344)
4. "That no person shall hereafter be accepted a Freemason but
suc'h as are of able body, .. ," (Regulation s of 1663 Sec. 2 - C.M.C.
.
p. 346.)
5. "And that the Apprentice be freeborn, and of limbs whole as a
man ought to ·be, ... (Ancient Charges at Makings. Sec. 2 - C.M.C.
p. 348.)
6. Items 3, 4 and 5 above constitute a part of our Written Law
of Masonry and can be changed by Grand Lodge but the landmark
under Item 1 above a part of our unwritten law, being unrepealable,
must ever remain in force. (C.M.C. p. 364.)
7. The present law of Grand Lodge is as follows: " (an applicant)
having no maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable
of learning the art, and physically able to conform substantially to what
the several degrees respectively require of him." ( C.M.C. p. 511.)
"The question as to the physical sufficiency of the applicant shall
be left to the sound discretion of the Lodge. When the applicant is
unable to comply literally with the physical requirement, the Master
shall state the nature and extent of his disabilities to the Lodge before
ballot is taken." ( C.M.C. p. 512.)
We conclude that said resolutions infringe a landmark, and
We move that Resolutions 7 and 8 be adopted and recommend a
no vote.
The Committee on Ritual indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolutions.

292

293

MINIMUM DUES
( 1O)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The resolution offered by Brother Ralph W. Collins, increasing the
minimum dues from $12.00 per year to $15.00 per year, has been referred
to and has had the consideration of your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes. To remove all doubt about the position of the Committee, we will say at the outset that it is unanimously opposed to the
change.

295

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The increase in the annual amount of dues is taking place volunt:arily
and the Committee feels that at this point it ~ould not be mandatory.
Five years ago 320 Lodges had $12.00 dues and today that has been
reduced to 121 Lodges by their own voluntary action. One Lodge has
$14.00 dues so that the number of Lodges which would be affected is
121 out of 700. Five years ago the average dues were $13.96 and now
the average dues are $15.56, which is beyond the amount recommended
in ·the resolution. Your Committee feels that, in the light of this voluntary
raising of dues, any further mandatory action is not necessary.
While there may be some Lodges which, due to possible reactionary
tactics of a few, cannot raise their dues, it should also be born in mind
that there are many Lodges which can support themselves on $12.00
per year. Many are relatively small, own their own Temples without
debt, and pay relatively light taxes. In these Lodges the wives of members still bake the cakes and prepare the sandwiches, and there is little
expense for refreshments. There are also in many of these Lodges
pensioners on whom an increase could conceivably work a hardship and
the necessary remission of dues might even offset any possible gain.
Your Committee therefore recommends that at this time there be
no change in the minimum dues required.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 10 by Brother Collins, we report as
follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 571 CMC be amended as follows:
That the word "twelve" appearing in the first sentence be stricken
and the word "fifteen" inserted in lieu thereof.
We move the adoption of the resolution and urge a no vote.
The Grand Master announced the withdrawal of reference to the
Committee on Finance.
A majority voted against the resolution.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 11 by Brother Keith, et al., we report
as follows:
RESOLVED
1. That Sec. 5~1 CMC be amended as follows:
Insert the words - plus a reinstatement fee of ten dollars - between
the words "payment" and "or" in the fifth line thereof.
2. That Sec. 582 CMC be amended as follows:
Insert the words - plus a reinstatement fee of ten dollars - between
the words "payment" and "or" in the eighth line thereof.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

294

FEE FOR RESTORATION
( 11)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it the resolution designated No. 11. "Fee for Restoration."
This resolction, if adopted, would require that a fee of ten dollars
be charged for reinstatement in addition to the requirements of Articles
581 and 582, CMC.
Your Committee feels that the cost to the Lodge for reinstatement
of a brother is minor and does not merit a ten dollar reinstatement fee.
We also feel that Articles 58•1 and 582, CMC, give to the individual
Lodges the necessary power for setting reinstatement payments as the
Lodge may require.
We recommend a no vote.

RESEARCH LODGE OFFICERS
(12)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it Resolution No. 12 entitled "Research Lodge Officers."
This resolution would rescind Paragraph 18 of Section 355 of the
California ·M asonic Code enacted at the 1960 Annual Communication
~f this Grand Lodge. This section, as last amended, provides that
None but a Past Master of a California Lodge is eligible for eledion
as a Master, Senior or Junior Warden of a Research Lodge."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion
that the work and activities of our Research Lodges are beneficial
to the craft and ;ohould be encouraged. We find, however, that by reason of the present limitations in the California Masonic Code our Research Lodges are hard pressed to find Past Masters who are willing
to s~rve as their senior officers. Further, we find that they are thus
deprived of the services and abilities of many members of the craft
who are otherwise well qualified to preside over and administer the
activities of a Research Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recognizes that
the administrative duties and obligations of the Master and Senior
Officers of a Research Lodge differ in many respects from the administrative duties and ritualistic obligations of the Officers of a Symbolic
Lodge. T1his fact, coupled with the fact that the existing provisions of
the California Masonic Code clearly provide that "No Officer or Past
Master of a Research Lodge shall, by that reason alone, be a member
of Grand Lodge, causes your Committee to seriously question the
wisdom of the e::idsting limitation in the Code.
We recommend a yes vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 12 by Brother Home, et al., we report
as follows:

296

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RESOLVED:
That subsection 18 of Sec. 385 CMC be repealed.
We urge a no vote.
REASONS :
1. Subsection was enacted just last year requmng a P.M. of a
California Lodge to hold the office of Master, S. W., and J. W. in
Research Lodges. Insufficient time to test.
2. Prior thereto efforts had been made to establish a short cut to
membership in Grand Lodge by way of a Research Lodge. If sub 18
is repealed, the battle will probably start again.
3. Contribution of knowledge and assistance by a member to the
welfare of a Research Lodge is not contingent upon office holding. To
hold that a member can't serve properly unless he is an officer of a
Research Lodge is to gainsay some of the precepts of Masonry.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

RESOLVED:
That a new section be added to OMC reading as follows:
Sec. 386. YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS. A Lodge by resolution,
approved by the Grand Master, may sponsor youth organizations
dedicated to the interest and welfare of boys and girls limited to
DeMolay, Rainbow, and Job's Daughters, and a ·Lodge may expend i·t s
funds in defraying the cost of such sponsorship and of providing youth
nights and other entertainment for and on behalf of such groups.
We move the adoption of the resolution and urge a no vote.
The Special Committee on DeMolay indicated their concurrence
with the recommendations.
The Grand Master announced the withdrawal of reference to the
Committee on Finance.
A majority voted against the resolution.

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
( 14)
The Committee on Finance:
Brother Candee and the members of the Correspondence Committee
again have introduced a resolution to require Grand Lodge to send
our official magazine, "California Freemason," to all members of
California Lodges. The resolution has been referred to the Finance
Committee.
This resolution has been before Grand Lodge at two previous Com ..
munications and was defeated each time. The Finance Committee op ..
posed it on both occasions, and we now oppose it for the third time.
We do not think the opposition by this Committee and by the Grand
Lodge reflects any lack of appreciation of the work of Brother Candee
and the other members of the Correspondence Committee. The magazine
has been commended on every hand and all of us owe them our thanks
for their untiring efforts.
In considering this resolution you should keep in mind that at the
present time the magazine has approximately 85,000 paid subscribers.
In the last fiscal year ended June 30, 1%1, these subscriptions produced
total revenue of $68,471.66. Total expenses of publication and promotion amounted to $53,436.84, leaving net cash revenue of $15,034.82.
The fact remains that if this resolution is adopted it will be the end
of paid subscriptions and the financially successful method of distribu..
tion now in operation.
If the remaining members of the Lodges are not sufficiently interested in the magazine to spend the small sum of $1.00 to have it sent
to them, we cannot see why we should toss out the window the present
self-supporting distribution and substitute a Grand Lodge tax supported
handout.
In its most simple terms, the question boils down to this: Do you
1

SPONSORSl-llP OF YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS
(13)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it Resolution No. 13 which would add a new section to the California
Masonic Code relative to the sponsorship of youth organizations by our
constituent Lodges, and which would authorize a sponsoring Lodge
to expend its funds to defray the cost of such sponsorship and of providing youth nights and other entertainment for or on behalf of such
groups.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is in sympathy
with and commends the ideals, aims and purposes of the Order of DeMolay, Job's Daughters, and the Order of Rainbow for Girls, and
would urge the individual members of the Masonic Fraternity to offer
these fine organizations their personal support and encouragement.
The expenditure of Lodge funds to defray the cost of sponsorship
of these youth organizations would not, however, in the opinion of your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes, be in the best interest
of either the youth organization or its sponsoring constituent Lodge.
We recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 13 by Brother Hunt, et al., we report
as follows:

297

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

want to add 40 cents per member to your per capita tax? That is what
it will cost you to pay for this so-called free distribution.
It is your money and your responsibility to make the decision for
all members of your Lodges.
We recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 14 by Brother Con dee, et al. we report
as follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 203 CMC be amended as follows:
Insert after the words "California Freemason" in line three the
following:
to all members of California Lodges beginning with Volume 10,
Number 1, for 1963.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their
concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

STUDY OF SUBVERSIVE TECHNIQUES
( 16)
The Committee on Masonic Education:
The Committee on Masonic Education, to whom the Grand Master
referred Resolution No. 16, titled, "Subversive Techndques," reports
as follows:
The members of tlhis committee are deeply sympathetic and in complete accord with the philosophy behind the resolution and the objectives
which the sponsors seek to attain even though we unanimously oppose
the resolution.
From time immemorial, even to the days when our Lodges were
operative, it has been customary and traditional that discussions of
politics and religion, in the Lodge room, not be permitted. Furcihermore,
in this jurisdiction, it has been a matter of Constitutional Law since
1875, (Article Ill, Sec. 16-j, CMC) that no discussions may be held
on either of these two subjects in the Lodge room.
This committee opposes this resolution because:
1. As a fraternity and as a philosophy of life we were not organized
to be political in nature but rather to promote the well-being of each
other. The requirements of this resolution are not properly the function
of a Masonic Lodge.
2. It is our opinion ~t the adoption of this resolution would tend
to create dissension within the Lodge and friction between the fraternity
and non-Masons on the outside.
3. For many reasons, apparent to everyone, Masonic Lodges should
not be public information bodies, as this resolution proposes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

299

In view of the foregoing, we oppose the resolution and urge a no
vote on it.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their
concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

MEMBERSHIP IN SUBVERSIVE ORGANIZATION
( 17)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it a resolution entitled "Membership in Subversive 0J:"ganizations."
The resolution recommends that the following question be added to our
Application for Degrees. "Would you be willing to take an oath that you
never were, or are, or ever will be, knowingly affiliated with any subversive group or organization inimical to the Government of the United
States of America?"
The proposers of this legislation undoubtedly have in mind, as their
preamble states, the protection of our fraternity from infiltration by
subversives under any name. No Mason can take issue with such
motives, as the aim ds indeed a most commendable one.
Remembering, however, that to subversives an oath is meaningless,
that they are in general a God-denying group wholly unacquainted with
the meaning of trujjh as we know it, we fail to see how the addition of
this query to our application form would serve anry useful purpose.
More careful and complete investigation of candidates, using all of
the many means available, we feel is the ,answer to the problem of keeping our organization free from undesirables, and this cannot be stressed
too strongly. We commend the intent of the makers of the motion in
the interest of Freemasonry but feel that we cannot recommend the
adoption of the resolution.
We recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 17 by Brother Craig, et al., we report
as follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 527 CMC be amended as follows:
RESOLVED:
That question 16 be changed to 17.
That a new question be added reading as follows:
16. Would you be willing to take an oath t'hat you never
were, nor are, nor ever will be, knowingly affiliated with any
subversive group or organization inimical to the Government of
the United States of America?
We move the adoption and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

300

301

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY

Commissioners indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
The Grand Master announced the withdrawal of the reference to
Committee on Finance.
A majority voted against the resolution.

(18)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Polky and General Purposes has had referred
to it a resolution entitled "Subversive Activity" signed by 34 members
of Grand Lodge in the San Fernando Valley area. It recommends that
"Constituent Lodges become active in alerting its members, their family
and friends, to the meaning and dangers of Communism," etc.
Again your Committee is in full sympathy with the intended effect
of the proposed legislation but feels that Masonry as an organization
must, in defense ·to its age-old character, refrain from attempting to
legislate against ·any ideology. regardless of how unsavory it may be.
If Masonry teaches anything, it teaches the importance of the individual and that its strength lies in individual action. When Masonry
enters the political arena it becomes a target for all !its enemies.
Communism and all other subversive activities must be curbed and
they will be but only by right thinking and fearless men acting as
individuals and not by Masonry as a pressure group.
Your Committee is of the opinion that it is the duty of every
Mason to uphold the principles of freedom whidh have made this
country great, but that the institution of Masonry as such should
devote itself to imbuing that spirit of devotedness and patriotism within
the individual which will lead him to proper civi"ic: activity within the
appropriate sphere.
Your Committee urges a no vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 18 by Brother Swart, et al., we report as
follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 514 CMC be amended by adding a new paragraph
at the end thereof reading as follows:
A Lodge may establish a voluntary committee for the following purposes:
1. To study the techniques and methods of Communism:
2. To act in the capacity of a research group to promote and
direct the distribution of informatrion to the public in the community of the techniques and methods of Communism:
3. To use every opportunity to stress to the citizens of our
country the importance of our political heritage.
RESOLVED FURTHER:
That the Grand Secretary transmit a copy of the above
resolution to ~e several Grand Lodges of the U.S.A.
We move the adoption of the resolution but urge a no vote.
The Committee on Masonic Education and the Board of Library

BINGO
(20)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 20, relating to the playing of Bingo in the Lodges,
has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
and has received careful consideration by that committee.
A similar resolution was presented at a previous Communicatiion of
Grand Lodge and received the support and favorable recommendation
of this committee - the recommendation was not approved in Grand
Lodge and the resolution was not adopted.
Your Committee is still of the opinion that if no charge is made
for flhe privilege of participating in the game, there is no gamble
involved and no violation of the law has occurred.
The same objection could and has been made to whist, bridge or
any other card game, but there is no prohibition against it. We cannot
agree that one game should be prohibited while others are permitted.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a
yes vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting· Resolution No. 20 by Brother Foster, et al., we report as
follows:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 685 CMC be amended by add~ng at the end thereof
a new paragraph reading as follows:
Bingo games may be conducted by a Lodge and Masons may
participate in such games, subject to the following restrictions:
1. Attendance must be limited to members of the Lodge, their
families and guests.
2. No charge can be made, directly or indirectly, for attendance
or participation in the game.
3. Prizes awarded must be of nominal value such as boxes of
candy, or items of similar value.
4. The event cannot be advertised or publicized other than in
the regularly published bulletins to members of the Lodge.
RESOLVED FURTHER:
That Sec. 685-d CMC be repealed.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

302

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

REGIS TRATI ON OF SOJOU RNERS

Your Committ ee recommends a no vote.
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 23 by Naval Lodge, we report as follows·.
RESOL VED:
That a new section be added to CMC as follows:
Sec. 387. Scholarships by Lodges.
. A Lodge or group of Lodges may sponsor and develop scholarship award program s in the community where such Lodge or Lodges
are located and may expend from the funds of such Lodge or Lodges
such sums as may be required for such purposes, consisten t with
their financial position.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no
vote.
The Committee on Scholarships indicated their concurrence in
the recommendation.
The Grand Master announc ed that the reference to the Committee on Finance had been withdraw n.
A majority voted against the resolution.

(2'1 )
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution requiring all Lodges in the jurisdiction to report
to Grand Lodge the names and addresse s of sojourning Masons and
requiring the Masters to contact said brethren .
Your Committee is of the opinion that intereste d sojourne rs have
adequate opportunities to contact the Lodges in their respective communities. The suggeste d resolution would place an unwarra nted burden
on the constitue nt Lodges and the office of the Grand Secretar y.
We therefore recommend a no vote.
The Committ ee on Jun"sprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 21 by Brother Neilson .. we report as
follows:
The requirement that Grand Lodge extend this practice to all
states and Canada is impossible of legislation.
RESOL VED:
That Sec. 483 CMC be amended by inserting at the end thereof
the following:
7th. To furnish to the Grand Secretar y the names and addresse s
of all sojourni ng Masons residing within the jurisdiction of his Lodge
and to contact such Masons and welcome them to attend his Lodge.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no
vote.
The Committee on Sojourne rs indicated their concurrence in the
recommendation.
The Grand Master announc ed that the reference to the Committee on Finance had been withdraw n.
A majority voted against the resolution.

SCHOL ARSHI P AW ARDS BY LODGES
(23)

The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
To your Committee on Policy and General Purposes there has been
referred a proposal to permit the constitue nt Lodges to expend Lodge
funds for the purpose of scholarsh ip awards.
Your Comimtt ee believes that isudh a program iis not a normal Masonic Lodge function and that the expendit ure of Lodge funds for su~h
purposes can lead to unnecess ary financial burdens and problems m
the event of undue enthusiasm for scholarship program s.
Your Committee further believes that there presently exists a substantial number of scholarship awards througho ut Californ ia and that
there are many sources for such student aid. We believe that our deep
interest in and support of the Public Schools will not be enhanced by
monetar y inducements for individual students .

303

EXPENSES OF MEMBERS
(24)
The Committ ee on Finance:
There has been referred to this Committ ee the resolution introduc ed
by Grand Secretar y Siems which would amend Section 174 of the Code,
to change the method of computing compensation for transpor tation of
represen tatives to and from the annual Grand Lodge Commun ication
from railroad fare to a mileage basis, the rate per mile to be fixed by
the Committee on Finance.
We have discussed this proposal at length with Brother Siems. The
reason for the change is to correct some inequities which exist under
the present method of compensation, mainly relating to the dividing
line between Pullman fare compensation. For example, a delegate from
Livingston receives $11.82 while a delegate from Merced, in the same
area, receives $25.82 which includes Pullman. Under the mileage system,
the delegate from Livingston would receive $15.96, and the delegate
from Merced $17.92.
Based on estimate s compiled by the Grand Secretar y this change
should increase the over-all cost to Grand Lodge less than $200.00 per
year.
We favor the adoption of the resolution and recommend that the
rate per mile be set at seven ( 7) cents, which is the rate currently
allowed for Grand Lodge Officers, Inspectors, and otlhers when traveling
on official Grand Lodge business.
The Committ ee on /un"sprudence:
Respecting Resolution No. 24 by Grand Secretar y Siems, we report
as follows:

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RESOLVED:
That Sec. 174 CMC be amended as follows:
Strike the word "exact" in the fourth line.
Strike the language in the first sentence from the word "return"
in the sixth line to the end of the sentence and insert in lieu thereof
the following:
at the rate per mile as fixed by the Committee on Finance. The
mileage from points within California shall be determined from
published records of t'he California State Automobile Association, and the mileage from points within the State of Hawaii
shall be determined from pubJ.ished records of air lines.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
The Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Pay of
Members indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON RITUAL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

CIPHER RITUAL CODE
(2)
The 'Ritual Committee, to Which has been referred the resolution
calling for the adoption in this jurisdiction of a cipher ritual, reports
as follows:
The premise upon which this resolution is based is false. The living
Past Grand Lecturers can testify that during their ritualistic experience
of better than thirty years, there have been no changes in the ritual
except those directed by the Grand Lodge in 1942, t'he effect of which
was merely to make uniform a certain few words. The statement that
there have been repeated changes is patently without foundation in
fact.
There are, however, implications in this resolution which none of
us who have knelt at the altar of Masonry can view without a feeling
of shock.
We are, by this resolution, asked to violate our obligations, to
wipe out one of t'he landmarks of Masonry, and to engage in a practice
which is repugnant to the ideal of Masonry as practiced in this great
jurisdiction.
Each Master and Past Master here representing his Lodge has
signified his assent to those ancient charges and regulations, including
the following:
"XI. You admit that it is not in the power of any man or body of
men to make innovations in the body of Masonry.
"You are further enjoined that our awards and resolutions must in
every case be consistent with the Constitutions of the Order and that

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

305

no Edict of the Grand Lodge may be subversive of the principles and
groundwork of Masonry."
Section 16 of the Constitution strictly limits the Power and Authority
of the Grand Lodge by a strict adherence to the Ancient Landmarks
of the order and by the provisions of its own Constitution and Regulations.
Landmark Twenty-third. The secrecy of the Institution.
Under such hallowed precepts we have labored for better than a
century. During that time the subject of cipher rituals has been before
this Grand Lodge. In 1908 (Sec. 554 d) Grand Lodge condemned the
purchase, sale or use of cipher rituals and reaffirmed that the secrets
of the ritual should be ever concealed and never revealed: that they
are communicated only by the instructive tongue to the attentive ear;
that the writing, printing or marking of the same whereby they may
become legible or intelligible to any person is forbidden; that no human
power can authorize a Mason to write, print or mark them and that
the secrets are ancient and cannot be changed. In 1911, 1918 and 1955,
there was repeated condemnation of cipher rituals and their possession
or use as a violation of Masonic law.
The Ritual Committee, as constituted, is charged by Section 159 of
the Ordinances to be the custodian of the esoteric work. No member
of this Committee has the authority to prepare a cipher ritual. nor do
we believe that this Grand Lodge has the power to direct the Grand
Lecturer or this Committee to do that which our solemn obligations,
the Landmarks of Masonry, and the Constitutions and Ordinances
prohibit. As a matter of deep personal conviction, the present Grand
Lecturer would be obligated by his own vows to refuse the commission
of the task alloted to him under this resolution and would refuse the
office if it entailed such a Oagrant abuse of the principles and groundwork of Masonry.
We believe that this Grand Lodge should refuse to entertain this
resolution, declaring it to be repugnant to and inconsistent with the
Constitution and Ordinances and that, as such, it shall not be adopted
as it is in violation of the Ancient Landmarks as cherished by this Grand
Lodge.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
Respectfully submitted,
DONALD G. CAMPBELL
CLARE B. CAMPBELL
HAROLD N. RICHARDS
KAHN
ARTHUR
COLLINS
RALPH
BEN SoRRELLS

J.

w.

w.

The Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General Purposes indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

306

307

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SHORTENING THE RITUAL

view of the duties of a Mason as exemplified in these few minutes.
Many members may miss degree work and only have the contact at
stated meetings with the ritual. Are we to slight these members in our
work?
There is no dead wood in the ritual of Masonry. Each word is
fraught with significance. The lectures, the charges, the degrees can
only be of significance if they are transmitted from mouth to ear.
In order to conform to the required procedure, we move the adoption
of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

(3)

The Ritual Committee to which has been referred the resolution
entitled "Shortening the Ritual" reports as follows:
The resolution directs the incoming Grand Master to appoint a
special committee with the end of proposing changes in the ritual by
eliminating portions of the work, including the opening and closing
ceremonies, the floor work of the degrees, and the lectures.
Section 555 of the Ordinances states as follows:
Sec. 555. Change of ritual. The Grand Lodge alone has power to
authorize any changes in the Ritual for the purpose of having it remain
as it was handed down from time immemorial.
Unless it can be shown that a form of ritual embodying short forms
of opening and closing, curtailed floor work and abbreviated lectures
has in the past been the practice of this Grand Lodge, the resolution
would first require the amendment of Sec. 555 by striking out the
phrase "for the purpose of having it remain as it was handed down from
time immemorial."
From the standpoint of our law we therefore do not believe the
resolution to be in order.
From the standpoint of the health and well-being of the Lodges,
we mention the following points to consider.
1. The applicant is the person to be considered as far as the degrees
are concerned. The lessons of Masonry are too important to be slighted
by mere reference to printed materials. The beauty and wisdom of
Masonry is not something to be handed the candidate like a library
card. It must be lived to be felt. We have as an institution deplored the
degree-mill type of operation and prided ourselves that while our
imitators may engage in the practice, we believe that our candidates
put trust in us for something better.
2. Masters can heighten the interest of the members in many ways.
The first might well be to limit the number of candidates to one in any
evening. With this limitation, the members will be home in good season.
The promotion of sideline teams, not limited to the third degree, will
offer opportunity for members to participate. Those who thus participate
will not, we believe, complain of late hours. A high standard of excellence demanded of every participant in ritualistic work will bring
meaning to the sideline observers as well as the candidate. Above all,
the work of the Master in the lectures, whether he merely recites as a
machine or breathes life into the words, will determine, in the end, the
feeling of his listeners as to whether the evening is long or short.
3. With regard to stated meetings, we are all familiar with the
Master who can arrange an interesting program, facilitate the business
of the Lodge, and close Lodge before ten o'clock. The time used in
opening and closing represents to his members a period for quick re-

OFFICERS' APRONS
(4)
The Ritual Committee, to which was referred a resolution to permit
wearing of aprons bearing the insignia of the officer's rank or station
either by the installed officer or at the option of the Lodge by the
member temporarily oc,cupying the station, reports as follows:
This is essentially the same resolution as that introduced in 1957.
We report in the same language used at that time.
The praotice adopted and taught by the Grand Lecturer and Ritual
Committee is that an officer vacating his station or place shall surrender
to the person occupying it, not only the jewel, but the apron, if it bears
insigne indicating the office.
Several years ago, the Ritual Committee became aware that two
differing practjces prevailed in this jurisdiction with respect to this
matter, and the practice adopted was to make uniform one practice
throughout the jurisdiotion. The Committee was unanimous that the
correct practice was the one it adopted and that it was taught in the
greater number of areas in the State. Furthermore, it conforms to the
practice of the Grand Lodge officers at Grand Lodge ceremonies, at
which the man filling the office customarily wears both jewel and apron
indicating the office.
We have pointed out on prior occasions that there is no authority in
our law or regulations for so-called officers' aprons, and no regulation governing color, design or insignia to be placed on them. They
exist in contradiction of the instruction given to candidates to the effect
that the white lambskin apron is the badge of a Mason. H we are
to adopt an amendment to section 554 to prescribe the practice with
respect to aprons, we should first adopt a regulation specifying the
color, design and insignia to be placed thereon.
There is neither law nor precedent for the contention that the apron
belongs to the installed officer. It is merely part of the equipment belonging to the Lodge, just as is the jewel with which the officer is formally
invested at installation.

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The officer who is selected to act in any station or place is selected
by the installed Master. but, nevertheless, for the purposes of degree,
he is the officer of the Lodge which has been convened to confer the
degree. The Junior Warden, acting as Master in a Lodge of Entered
Apprentice Masons, is for all purposes the Master of that Lodge. He
must be addressed as Worshipful Master. He wears the Master's jewel.
He wears t'he Master's hat and he wields the Master's gavel, which
is the distinct emblem of the Master's authority. These are all surrendered to him without question. So also, we think, must the apron
be surrendered, if it designates the office.
If the installed Master is to sit on the sidelines with the Master's
apron, then by the same token, he should retain the hat and the gavel.
It requires very little reference to our ritual to demonstrate that the
officer occupying the station or place is the officer of the Lodge as thus
convened for the degree. These references obviously cannot be written
in this report.
If the rule suggested in this resolution were adopted, the result
would be confusion because half the officers conferring the degree
might be clothed in officers' aprons and half of them clothed in white
aprons.
Since our law requires, under section 554, that each degree conferred must be in conformity with the ritual now taught by the Grand
Lecturer and recognized by the Grand Lodge, and, further, since this
resolution would destroy the uniformity required by this section, we
suggest that it purports to amend this section and would require a
five-sixths vote of Grand Lodge.
In order to conform to the required procedure, we move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

IN GRAND LODGE

BUSINESS CARRIED FORWARD
The Grand Master pointed out to the Brethren the alternatives of
an evening session or of granting unanimous consent for the transaction
of remaining business prior to the Annual Election of Officers on Friday.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated that a unanimous concurrence by the entire membership present would make the latter procedure
legal.
A unanimous vote was given to permit the transaction of unfinished
business on Friday morning.
At 6:05 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:00 a.m. Friday.

309

MORNING SESSION-FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1961
At 9:00 o'clock Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The
minutes of the moming and afternoon sessions of Thursday, September
28th, were read and approved.
The Grand Master directed that the ceremony for installation of
Grand Lodge officers be revised to delete therefrom references to the
Judge Advocate.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Cali1ornia:
Reference is made to previous reports of this Committee for information on this first Masonic Hall in Los Angeles.
The Committee has in its flies a work progress report dated August
11, 1961, from Brother Ovel B. Johnson, Direct Construction Supervisor on the Monument. Some work still remains to be done, and schedule for completion is now set for July 1, 1962, after which a dedication
ceremony could be planned H desired.
The final draft of the lease is being prepared between Grand Lodge
and the State, and City of Los Angeles. When completed it will be
presented to us for the proper signatures. At the 1960 Annual Communication a ~esolution presented by this Committee was adopted which
authorized the proper Officers of Grand Lodge to execute such a lease.
We recommend the continuation of a Special Committee and the
authority, previously granted, for the Grand Master to make nominal
expenditures, if necessary.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
MATTHEW M. CODON
GuYB. M1zE
Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The firm of Lybrand, Ross Bros. and Montgomery, of which Brother
James E. Hammond is a general partner, has completed and furnished
this Committee with copies of the audit of the accounts of Grand Lodge
and its agencies for the fiscal year which ended June 30, 1961. These
have been examined by the Committee and reviewed with Brother

311

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hammond. We are of the opinion that the audit report correctly states
rhe financial position of Grand Lodge. The report in detail will be
printed in the Proceedings of this Communication.
The audit shows total Grand Lodge revenue of $410,815.90 and
expenses and appropriations of $378,797.51, leaving a net revenue of
$32,018.39.
It should be noted that approximately $15,000.00 of the net revenue
is represented by excess receipts from publication and sale of "California
Freemason" which should be transferred to that reserve, and will be
recommended later in our report.

for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1962, the proceeds to be paid
to the Trustees of the Masonic Homes."

310

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

We have examined the Grand Treasurer's report which was referred to this Committee. In it he lists supplemental appropriations in
excess of the budget totalling $14.000.00, all of which ·had prior approval by the Grand Master. We recommend that this action by the
Grand Master be approved.
All other items of the report are likewise in accord with the audit
and we recommend that the entire report be approved.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT

There was referred to this Committee that portion of the Grand
Secretary's report in which he recommends that certain Lodges under
dispensation not be required to pay the per capita tax. We recommend
approval.
"CALIFORNIA FREEMASON"

The audit for the last fiscal year shows that cash receipts from
publication and sale of our official magazine, "California Freemason",
were in excess of cash disbursements in the amount of $15,034.82.
We recommend that Grand Lodge approve the appropriation of
$15,034.82 to be transferred to "California Freemason Reserve." This
will bring the total amount in the reserve to $35,168.22.
It is estimated that 274,000 issues have been subscribed and paid for
future issues. At 20 cents per copy this amounts to $54,800.00 whic'h
represents the liability of Grand Lodge. We should continue to build the
reserve to an amount which will offset our liability.
MASONIC HOMES

We have examined the audit of the accounts of the Masonic Homes
of California and have reviewed the Report of the Trustees. After
consultation, the Trustees feel that a renewal of the per capita of $1.00
will be sufficient to support their operating budget for the current fiscal
year.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
"RESOLVED, that the sum of $1.00 per capita be levied

SALARIES

At the last Annual Communication Grand Lodge, by a 5/6ths vote,
adopted a resolution employing Most Worshipful Lloyd E. Wilson as
Assistant to the Grand Master at the same annual salary of $20,000.00
which he was receiving as Grand Secretary, with such duties as would
be assigned to him by the Grand Master.
This action was taken for two reasons. First, Brother Wilson requested that he be relieved of the strenuous duties of Grand Secretary
because of the ill health which he has suffered for the last several years;
and, secondly, because Grand ·Lodge could retain the services of this
able Grand Lodge Officer in a muchly needed position where the duties
would be less exacting of time and energy.
The Grand Master, if he wishes, may report on the work which has
been successfully carried out by Brother Wilson in the past year.
With the above as background, we now report to you that Brother
Wilson has voluntarily chosen to retire under the physical disability
provision of our Retirement Income Plan effective January 1, 1962.
The pension which he will receive under Disability Retirement is
$254.05 per month. In order to bring this up to an adequate amount,
we propose and recommend that Grand Lodge make a supplemental
pension payment of $746.00 per month. This Grand Lodge cannot, of
course, make future commitments, but we recommend, and so record
herewith, that this supplemental pension payment be a continuing program for Brodrer Wilson.
May we call your attention to the fact that the net result of this
action, insofar as expense is concerned, is an annual saving to Grand
Lodge from now on of $11,000.00 as compared to the present salary
paid Brother Wilson by resolution of Grand Lodge.
It hardly seems necessary to recount that, after his year as Grand
Master, Lloyd Wilson began an unbroken term of twenty years as
Grand Secretary, during which the administration of the aff·airs of the
Grand Lodge Office reached a peak of efficiency, and in a period when
membership in the Lodges almost doubled.
There is much more that we could say, but we feel that you know
what his service 1has meant to California Masonry. Now that ill health
has forced his early retirement, we also feel that you will give hearty
approval to this measure of support and appreciation for a true and
faithful servant.
1

RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN

There has been referred to this Committee that portion of the report
of the Pension Plan Committee, which has full responsibility for ad-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

312

ittee recministering the Retirement Income Plan, in which the Comm
service
past
for
y
liabilit
its
rge
discha
ommends that Grand Lodge
its refrom
paying
by
Plan
the
by
d
covere
yees
credits on all emplo
serves to the Truste e bank the sum of $130,296.00.
reason s
In its report the Pensio n Plan Committee points out the
Lodge
Grand
to
s
tageou
advan
are
for this recommendation, all of which
and the constituent Lodges.
tion:
We concur in t'he recommendation and offer the following resolu
"RES OLVE D, that Grand Lodge appro priate from its reBank
serves the sum of $130,296.00 to be paid to Wells Fargo
ment
Retire
under
e
Truste
sco,
Franci
San
of
Co.
American Trust
service
past
1961,
Income Plan, to fully cover to Octob er 1,
d by
credits for all Grand Lodge and agenc y employees covere
the Plan."
to cover
We have included in the budge t the amounts necessary
year.
curren t service costs for the new fiscal

BUD GET 1961- 1962
ADMIN ISTRAT IVE AND OFFIC E

.00
Salari es ...............................................................................$ 91,400
Grand Lodge Offices .00
Temp le Opera tion and Maint enanc e Expen se ....... . 18,000
00
3,000.
.
.
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
Audit ....................
250.00
.
.
Grand Treas urer ............................................................
4,500.00
Postag e and Expre ss ...............:........................................
4,500.00
.
.......
..........
..........
..........
Telep hone and Teleg raph ..........
4,000.00
.
.........
..........
Taxes
ent
ploym
Social Security and Unem
500.00
.
.......
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
el
Investment Couns
Retirement Pensio n Plan .00
Grand Lodge Office Employees ................................ 13,000
Retirement Pension Plan .00
Grand Lodge Agencies Employees ........................ 13,800
00
1,000.
...
..........
ts.......
Benefi
al
Medic
yees
Emplo
Grand Lodge
00
4,476.
.
Supplemental Pensio n - Lloyd E. Wilso n....... ..........
TOTA L .................................................................... $158,426.00

GENER AL EXPEN SE

.00
Annua l Communication ....................................................$ 15,500
00
5,000.
.
.........
..........
..........
Conferences ........................................
.00
10,000
.
.....
..........
..........
se
Expen
l
Grand Lodge Officers' Trave
850.00
Grand Organ ist and Grand Tiler ..................................

313

Grand Maste r's Trave l, Secretarial
and Miscellaneous Expen se .................................... 10,000.00
6,000.00
Investment Couns el for Lodges ........................................
.
3,500.00
.....
..........
..........
..........
se
Grand Maste r's Portra it Expen
.00
.
35,465
.........
..........
..........
..........
..........
ge
Representatives' Milea
.00
23,500
........
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
Printin g .....•....
Ritualistic Expen se:
600.00
Grand Lecturer ..........................................................
00
3,200.
....
..........
..........
nery
Statio
Inspectors' Apron s and
tors'
Inspec
and
Ritual Committee
Confe rence and Trave l Expen se ...................... 14,000.00
900.00
Retirement Pay •.................................................................
00
3,600.
.
...
..........
..........
Veter an Button s ........................................
00
.
3,500.
.....
..........
..........
..........
..........
us
Supplies and Miscellaneo
Insura nce:
9.000.00
Work men's Compensation for Lodges....................
00
3.500.
..........
..........
Fideli ty Bond ........................................
700.00
..........
..........
..........
Miscellaneous ..............................
.00
TOTA L ·························-··········································-$1 48,815
APPRO PRIATI ONS

··-···········$ 3,500.00
Activities Committee ·····································-··
1,500.00
..............
..........
..........
..........
..........
Board of Contr ol ..........
.
750.00
.......
..........
..........
..........
..........
..........
ittee
Charte rs Comm
00
.
.
1,500.
..........
..........
..........
..........
ittee
Comm
le
Temp
bia
Colum
00
.
1,000.
.........
..........
Constitution Obser vance Committee ..........
.
...
500.00
..........
..........
..........
..........
De Molay Committee ..........
Employment Burea us ........................................................ 11,800.00
.00
Endow ment Board ............................................................ 14,000
00
2,000.
.
.........
..........
Histor y Committee ........................................
00
2,000.
.
...
..........
Committee on Mason ic Educa tion ....................
3,000.00
Lodge Financ ing Committee ............................................
1,200.00
.
.
..........
Memorial Temp le - Camp aign Expen se ..........
1,500.00
.
.
..........
Committee on Public Schools ..............................
Boards of Relief 515.00
Reimbursement for Sojou rners ............................... .
750.00
.
.........
..........
..........
..........
sm
Committee on Commerciali
250.00
.
...
..........
..........
..........
..........
Sojou rners Comm ittee ..........
Unive rsity Clubhouses:
Berkeley ...................................................................... 18,300.00
Los Angel es .............................................................. 19,850.00
150.00
Code Commission ..............................................................
500.00
.
...
..........
..........
..........
..........
se
Expen
Grand Lodge Legal

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Investment •Committee -----------------------------------------------------Relief Fund - Grand Master -----------------------------------------Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ----····--------------------······
Committee on Masonic Information ---------------------·······-···
Library Commission ················-················-·······-··------·-·----Committee on Relationship between
Temple Associations and Lodges ............................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
500.00
1,750.00
3,775.00
1,000.00
1,055.00
800.00

TOTAL··--·--·········-----------······--·--··-·····-----··········---------$ 93,445.00
RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office ···--··-···--------····----·----··········--····$158,426.00
General Expense --············-·······---------------------------------------- 148,815.00
Appropriations ···········-········---··----·----······--····--·······-··---····· 93,445.00
GRAND TOT AL -----------·-·---·-····--·-·····-·--·····-·-··---·--$400,686.00
ESTIMATED ·INCOME
Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc. --------------------$321,400.00
Income from Investments, Interest ---------------------------------- 32,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes Endowment Board Expense ------------------------------------ 14,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes Secretarial and other Services---------------------------------- 24,000.00
TOT AL ESTIMATED INCOME ----------------------$391,400.00
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS ------------------------------------ 400,686.00
ESTIMATED DEFICIT----------------------------------------$ 9,286.00
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
Contemplated purchases including typewriters,
filing cabinets, library equipment, and
miscellaneous other equipment ·········----··-·····-··-·-·-··-$

5,645.00

BUDGET
ONE QUARTER -

JULY 1, 1962 -

SEPTEMBER 30, 1962

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE
Salaries --····---·---------------··---------··-··-··--······--··---·----···----------·$ 21,000.00
Grand Lodge Offices 4,500.00
Temple Operation and ·Maintenance Expense ---·---75.00
Grand Treasurer -------···-·-------------·-------------------------------------1,200.00
Postage and Express -------··--·----·---·-----------·-··--------·--···------

315

Telephone and Telegraph ................................................
1,200.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ....................
1,200.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits ---------------------300.00
2,238.00
Supplemental Pension - Lloyd E. Wilson ....................
TOTAL··············-·················--------------------------------------$ 31,713.00
GENERAL EXPENSE
Annual Communication -········-·---·········-·····----······-----·-----·$ 10,000.00
750.00
Conferences -------------------····-·····-------------·-···········------···········
3,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ..........................
4,500.00
Printing ····---------·--------------------··----------······-················----·····
Ritualistic Expense:
150.00
Grand Lecturer ------------··-·····-····-········-----------------------Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ....................
1.500.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery ..........................
500.00
Retirement Pay -----------·-···-----------------------------------------------225.00
Veteran Buttons ·------·-·······················································
800.00
1,100.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous..............................................
9,500.00
Insurance --------··········---------------------------------------------------·-----TOTAL ---------------------·-------------------------·--------·-------------$ 32,025.00
APPROPRIATIONS
Relief Fund - Grand Master --·---·----------·------------------------$
300.00
2,000.00
Activities Committee -------------------------------------------------------Board of •Control -------------------------------------------------------------300.00
Charters Committee ---------------------------------------------------------175.00
Columbia Temple Committee -----------------------------------------375.00
Constitution Observance Committee -----------------------------200.00
De Molay Committee ----------------········-------------------------------100.00
Endowment Board ----------------------------------------------------·------2,000.00
History Committee ·----------------------------------------------------------500.00
Committee on Masonic Education ---------------------------------400.00
400.00
Lodge Financing Committee -------------------------------------------Memorial Temple - Campaign Expense ---------------------300.00
Committee on Public Schools -----------------------------------------250.00
Committee on Commercialism ---------------------------------------175.00
·Code Commission ----·------------------------------------------------------50.00
125.00
Investment Committee -----------------------------------------------------Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ---------------------------------75.00
50.00
Sojourners Committee -·---------------------------------------------------Committee on Masonic Information -------------------------------250.00
Library Commission ---------------------------------------------------------·
250.00
-=-----=--=-==-="'=
TOTAL ·-----···-···-----···--···-·--······------··--·--·-·----·---···---·-$ 8,275.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office ................................................$ 31. 713.00
General Expense .............................................................. 32,025.00
8,275.00
Appropriations ..................................................................
GRAND TOTAL .................................................... $ 72,013.00

CALLING UP PROCEDUR ES

.316

The estimated deficit of $9,286.00 results from increased operating
costs beyond our control in such fields as Social Security and Unem~
ployment Taxes, telephone and telegraph, travel expense, insurance
costs, and Pension Plan expense. In this last item we may expect some
reduction in the 1962~1963 fiscal year as a result of funding Past
Service Credits, and in future years as employee retirement plans mature.
All other items in the budget have been set at minimum figures con~
sistent with sound operation, but in spite of the most careful scrutiny,
we must face the fact that, based on our estimates, we will be in the
red for this fiscal year on the present per capita.
Your Committee feels that deficits are just as unsound fiscal policy
for this Grand Lodge as t'hey are for national governments and that to
avoid this, t'he per capita should be increased by the small amount of
five ( 5) cents.
We therefore, offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED that for the purpose of paying the expenses of
Grand Lodge, a per capita aggregating $3.30 be levied for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1962, divided as follows:
Constitutional per capita for
California Masonic Memorial Temple ..........................$ 1.00
Masonic Homes ...................................................................... 1.00
.50
Constitutional per capita for Grand Lodge ........................
.80
Additional per capita for Grand Lodge ............................
Total Per Capita ..............................................................$ 3.30
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
PAUL F. BALCK
ALFRED H. NICOLL
ATWILL MORGAN
FRED M. CLARK
FRANCIS A. GATES
LAWRENCE LAMB
Each of the recommendations of the Committee on Finance was
separately adopted.
The entire report of the Committee was then adopted.

317

The Grand Master had specified the calling up procedures in
advance and they were completed as follows:

Officer
Session
Monday a.m ............... .ARTHUR S. BECKER, W.M.
Starr King Lodge No. 344, using gavel
presented September 30, 1960, by Starr
King Lodge No. 344 at the Grand Lodge
Installation.
Monday p.m ................MERLE J. FISHER, W.M.
Ashland Lodge No. 798. using gavel
presented October 15. 1960, by his
Lodge at its constitution.
Tuesday a.m ................ARTHUR E. STIEFVATER, W.M.
Orinda Lodge No. 704. using gavel
presented November 26, 1960, by
Orinda Lodge No. 704 at the corner~
stone laying of the new Temple.
Tuesday p.m ............... LEO J. GREEN, S.W.
Central California Research Lodge, us~
ing gavel presented October 22. 1960,
by his Lodge at its constitution.
Wednesdaya.m ..........WAYNEC. BATES, W.M.
Covina Lodge No. 334. using gavel
presented March 25, 1961. by his Lodge
at the cornerstone laying of the new
Covina High School.
WALTER L. SMITH, W.M.
..............
a.m
Thursday
Reading Lodge No. 254, using gavel
presented July 1, 1961. by Reading
Lodge No. 254 at the dedication of
Claude H. Caldwell Memorial Park.
Redding.
Thursday p.m •............ TOMMY M. NEFF, W.M.
Imperial Lodge No. 390. using gavel
presented February 4. 1961, by the
Masons of Imperial Valley at the recep~
tion held at El Centro.
Friday a.m •..................JoHN E. KENNETI, W.M.
Acalanes Lodge No. 723. using gavel
presented March 11. 1961, by his Lodge
at the dedication of Acalanes Temple,
Lafayette.

318

319

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL ELECTION

Junior Grand Steward, Ahoon H. Wong, Waikiki Lodge No. 774.
Grand Pursuivant, Bertram C. von Konsky, Seaport Lodge No. 550.
Grand Organist. Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, David Wright, Menlo Park Lodge No. 651.
Announcement was made of the following appointments by the
Grand Master-elect:

The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the GMnd Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the same.
The R. W. Guy B. Mize, Unity Lodge No. 368, was elected Grand
Master.
The R. W. Ira W. Coburn, Doric Lodge No. 216, was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Elmer W. Heald, El Centro Lodge No. 384, was
elected Senior Grand W 'a rden.
The W. Theodore Meriam, Chico Lodge No. 111, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master, Mt. Davidson
Lodge No. 481, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth
Lodge No. 560, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Donald G. Oampbell, Granada Lodge No. 608, was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand 'M aster-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, The Reverend Jesse R. Kellems, Larchmont Lodge
No. 614.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell, North Butte Lodge
No. 230; Harold N. Richards, Washington Lodge No. 20; Arthur J.
~alhn, Paul Revere Lodge No. 462; Raymond G. Taylor, Libertas
Lodge No. 466; Ralph W. Collins, La Canada Lodge No. 739: W. Ben
Sorrells. Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
Grand Orator. Robert B. Watts, La Jolla Lodge No. 518.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Paul A. Pflueger, Amity ·Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco
Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal. John F. Porter, Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677.
Grand Standard Bearer, Robert E. Green, American River Lodge
No. 795.
Grand Sword Bearer, C. Leland Jenkins, Unity Lodge No. 368.
Grand Bible Bearer, Clarence E. Glaze, Oakwood Lodge No. 743.
Senior Grand Deacon, Henry M. Welch. Mt. Wilson Lodge No.
794.
Junior Grand Deacon, Wilton J. Smith, Salinas Lodge No. 204.
Senior Grand Steward, George C. Poloynis, Tejon Lodge No. 773.

1

As Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, the re-appointment of Past Grand Masters Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. and L. Harold
Anderson.
A_s Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, the reappointment of Paul A. Pflueger and the appointment of Jay A. Robinson to succeed Rexford L. HaH (term expired).
At 12:00 noon Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 p.m.

320

PROCEED INGS OF THE

AFTE RNOO N SESSI ON-Fr iday, September 29, 1961
At 2: 00 p.m. Grand Lodge assembled.

INSTA LLAT ION OF OFFICERS
The Most Worshi pful John R. Moore, Past Grand Master, acted
as Master of Ceremonies and the officers, elected and appointed, witlh
the exception of Assista nt Grand Lecture r Raymo nd G. Taylor, were
installe d by the retiring Grand Master in accorda nce with the Ritual.
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predece ssor with a
Past Grand Master 's lapel button.
The Charles Albert Adams lapel pin was trans£erred from the
retiring to the incumbent Grand Master.
On behalf of the retiring Grand Orator, Brother Myron Smith
present ed the Everett Houser lapel pin to the newly installe d Grand
Orator.
On behalf of the retiring Grand Chaplai n, the lapel pin of that
office was present ed to the newly installed Grand Chaplai n by Brother
Robert B. Watts, the original donor of that emblem.
The Most Worshi pful Joe L. Shell invested the Past Grand Master
with the apron of his new designation. A gift to be tendere d to Mrs.
Breslau er from the members of Grand Lodge was present ed by Most
Worshi pful Arthur M. Warren , Grand Treasur er. The Junior Past
Grand Master evidenced his appreciation by the courteous manner in
which he acknow ledged both presenta tions.
The represen tatives of Unity Lodge No. 368 made a present ation
of beautifu l studs and cuff links to Most Worshi pful Guy B. Mize on
behalf of the members of that Lodge.
At 3: 15 p.m., all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.
Edward H. Siems

GuyB. Mize

Grand Secretary
Grand Master

LLOYD EARL WILSO N

Grand Master - 1940
Gr and Secretary - 1941~1960

Born
August 16, 1895
Portland, Oregon

Died
Novembe r 2, 196 I
San Francisco, Californi a

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.:iRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge was opened in the California Masonic Memorial
Temple to conduct the funeral service for Past Grand Master Wilson
at 1 :30 p.m., Monday, November 6, 1961. The stations were occupied
as follows:

EULOGY

322

Grand M aster................................GuY B. MIZE
Deputy Grand Master................. .IRA W. COBURN
Senior Grand W arden ..................JoHN R. MooRE
Junior Grand Warden .................. HAROLD N. RICHARDS
Grand Treasurer........................... ARTHUR M. WARREN
Grand Secretary............................EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Lecturer.......... :................... CHESTER H. WARLOW
Grand Chaplain ............................ FRANK HARWELL, JR.
Grand Orator................................ HENRY C. CLAUSEN
Assistant Grand Treasurer .......... PAUL A. PFLUEGER
Assistant Grand Secretary........... HENRY D. OLIPHANT
Grand Marshal... .......................... JAMES LEO HALLEY
Grand Standard Bearer................ ALVIN A. HoRWEGE
Grand Sword Bearer.................... ARTHUR J. KAHN
Grand Bible Bearer....................... EDWARD C. LOHMEYER
Senior Grand Deacon ................... E. Ross BAYLIS
Junior Grand Deacon ................... .ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS
Senior Grand Steward..................CHARLES L. FosTER
Junior Grand Steward.................. HARRY K. WmuP
Grand Tiler................................... DAVID WRIGHT
The Eulogy, as given by Past Grand Master Henry C. Clausen, is
appended to this account.
Those who served as Pallbearers were:

L. HAROLD ANDERSON
IRA w. COBURN
DONALD MESSER
JOHN R. MOORE
EDWARD H. SIEMS
ARTHUR M. WARREN
The graveside services, at Olivet Memorial Park, were conducted by
DR. CARL G . How!E of the Calvary Presbyterian Church, San Francisco.

323

for

LLOYD EARL WILSON
by
HENRY C. CLAUSEN

Brothers and Friends:
We who survive - we who ourselves are
"only waiting 'til the shadows are a little longer grown"
pay now a last tribute of that respect and affection we feel for Lloyd
Earl Wilson. The Great Architect of the Universe summoned him from
our midst on November 2, 1961. Thus there came to ·a peaceful close
a distinguished ca·reer.
His was a powerful influence upon the fraternal and social fabric
of his times. We need not here record his virtues. They are engraved
upon the heart·s of those who knew him best. Gifted with extraordinary
natural abilities, directed by unswerving fideli.ty to his convictions,
matured by reflection and experience, he devoted almost a lifetime to
the cause of humanity. Called by his brethren to the highest offices in
their gift to bestow, he will be ranked for his achievements among the
immortals of Masonry. An orator with ability to stir and inspire, a
champion and defender of freedom, a gifted leader of the good fight,
a master of the "retort courteous," a wit and lover of life, his was a
powerful per•sonality and a luminous mind. He has left a lasting mark
for good upon 'the men and events of his time.
And so, by his passing we are all diminished.
"And man's death diminishes me .. .
"And therefore never send to know for whom the bell
tolls;
It .tolls for thee."
His early years and school days were spent among the greens and
the waters of Oregon. Born in Portland, August 16, 1895, he there
attended the public schooJ.s and then Drake University at Des Moines,
Iowa. 'f.ypical of his patriotic zeal, he enlisted at the outbreak of .the
First World War. Serving with his units of the Fourth Division, he was
in the thick of combat through five major campaigns in France. His
heroic devotion to duty and acts of bravery on the battelfield in the
face of mortal danger bear eloquent testimony to his courageous and
commanding character. It foretold the man who in the future would
"move toward the sound of the guns" and would ·speak out strongly for
what he thought best for his community, state and country.
On his return from France in 1919 there commenced an active
business career at San Francisco and then at San Diego. But his true

324

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

call was to help his fellow man. And so, from 1922 to 1940 he was with
the Young Men's Christian Association of San Francisco a·s Membership Sec•r etary, as Director of Promotion, and as Director of Public
Relations.

Our eminent brother added to his honors by allied activities. He
was one of .those rare Masons, members of the Scotti·sh Rite, elected
to receive the 33° as its last and highest degree. He was a Red Cross
of Constantine member of the Yark Rite. He had been honored with
awards by sister Grand Lodges, including Israel and Cuba, with the
Henry Price Award by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, and as an
honorary member of the Grand Lodge of France. He was on the
Executive Board of the George Washington Na!ional Masonic
Memoflial.

He was happily married on September 7, 1933, to ever charming
Elsie McElaney. Her pleasing personality, her womanly attainments,
and her loving devotion beyond the call of duty, ideally complemented
his dedicated work. This marriage was blessed with a most delightful
daughter. Helen Janet, further to brighten their lives. With nearby
friends and relatives, including especially Helen and Donald Messer,
the Wilson home was a pleasant scene of fortunate and happy companionships.
Our beloved brother commenced his rise to commanding Masonic
height·s by being made a Mason in 1917. At the organization of
Ingleside Lodge No. 630 in San Francisco he became a charter member
and its first Senior Deacon. He was a Past Master and remained a
member of that Lodge. His unusual ritualistic and dramatic ability was
recos:inized and rewarded by appointment as Inspector and then Assistant Grand Lecturer. Elected to the Grand Lodge line he was elevated
to the office of Grand Master on October 11, 1940. The following
October he was elected Grand Secretary. This was the office he filled
with such outstanding honor to himself and advantage to his brethren,
until ·a ppointed Assistant to the Grand Master in September, 1960.
He served in that capacity unNl illness forced him to announce arrangements for his retirement.
Thus, for two decades our brother labored for Grand Lodge as Grand
Secretary. His title itself denoted little of his real stature. He combined
with the daily routine affairs unusual executive ability and a clear vision
of the higher reaches toward which we aspire as Masons. Few are gifted
with ·such insight. The work of his staff under his direction was creative,
dignified and dynamic. This impetus toward those things we hold dear,
our members, Lodges, charities, homes and ·r elated activities, will long
continue.
Among the achievements he helped inspire and guide to success was
this magnificent Grand Lodge Temple in which we have assembled
today. This monumental structure - the present home of Grand Lodge
- was erected as a memorial to those wartime Masons who gave their
lives in battle that we might live in freedom. But it also shall stand as
a symbol of determination by those who worked to build the Temple.
And thus it reflects in part his genius.

325

He was a dynamic force in his community and state. He gave of
his talents freely to the civic life of his city as a member of the San
Francisco Grand Jury, the Public Welfare Commission, the Recreation and the Park Commission and the Housing Authorit•y . He was
active in many groups, including the Rotary Club, the American
Legion, the Council of Churches, the Sojourners, the San Francisco
Young Men's Christian Association and the San Francisco Golf Club.
But lest these words of mine be thought oversweet, let me say that
most assuredly our brother's virtues were not of the sanctimonious
cloi·ster. His feet were firmly upon the g·round. He abhorred domination by medieval creeds and wasted no time on empty ceremonial p•iety.
His goodness found expression in the ready and firm handclasp of
greeting. In the ear of one to whom the burdened heart could pour
out its sorrow. In the voice of cheer to a discouraged brother. In the
picture of a strong and hearty manhood. As an inspiring man among
men. As an orator of power and melodious voice, always ready with
the wiNcism, epigram or adage to express the sentiments of the occasion.
As a companion at the Lodge, the dinner table, the golf links, the trout
stream or the camp fire. As a friend with a smile of congenial fellowship.
He has made his last brave fight and no one may venture to say that
his place ever can be filled. But we can say with Browning that he was
"One who never turned his back but marched breast forward,
Never doubted clouds would break,
Never dreamed tho' right were worsted, wrong would
triumph,
Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better,
Sleep to wake."
Sadness and •s orrow, weeping and wonder, of course attend his
passing from us into eternal rest. With the utmost sincerity, we express
our deep and Masonic sympathy to his loved ones, those whose affec-

326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tion he valued above all else in this world. It is hard to see the tall trees
go down, one by one. In this case there trut.y is an empty place against
the sky!
But we can console ourselves with our faith; and with the observa~
tion that even though our brother has been called to leave the watch
towers of this world, nevertheless, through the vast serene, like the
deep melody of an angel',s song, Heaven's approving voice shall be
heard:
"Servant of God, well done!
Thy glorious warfare's past, the
battle's fought, the victory's won.
And thou are crowned at last."
And our instinct seems to tell us:
"So he passed over, and all the
trumpets sounded for him on the
other side."

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CAUPORNIA

327

SPECIAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Page
Budget for 1961-62---------·------------······-···-·······-·····-····----·--------········-·--···· 328
Grand Lodge Audit---·-··-··-------------------·-····-------_.·---········-------·--·-----·-·-··· 332
Audit of Annual Returns, 1961 ............................................................ 346
Masonic Homes Audit.·-·········--·------····----·-···-·-·--·--·-·--··-··--·---···-·--··--···· 348

M~morial Temple Audit·-------·····--·-·--···-·--··-··-·---··-·····-·----··--···-··-···-·--··- 383
Statistical:
Residents at Union CitY-----------···-·····-······-···--·------·--··---······----····-··· 391
Children at Covina Home: .....•.... -------------··--·-···-··-------·---·--····-···-·-· 400
Number of Residents, Union City and Covina.·--·------------·-··---·-···· 402
Per Capita Cost, Union City and Covina.. -----------------------·-----·--·-·- 402
Contributions to Special Reserves---------------------------·-·--------···-·-·--·-· 403

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THI::

328

BUDGET 1961-1962
ADMINISTRATIV E AND OFFICE

Salaries ..............................................................................$ 91,400.00
Grand Lodge Offices Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense........ 18,000.00
Audit ................................................................................. . 3,000.00
250.00
Grand Treasurer.................................................•..............
Postage and Express........................................................ 4,500.00
Telephone and Telegraph................................................ 4,500.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes...................... 4,000.00
500.00
Investment Counsel. ........................................................•
Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Office Employees................................ 13,000.00
Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Agencies Employees ......................... . 13,800.00
1,000.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits......................
Supplemental Pension - Lloyd E. Wilson .................... 4,476.00
TQT AL

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••$158,426.00
7

GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication....................................................$ 15,500.00
5,000.00
Conferences ......................................................................
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense.......................... 10,000.00
850.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler.............................•......
Grand Master's Travel, Secretarial
and Miscellaneous Expense ........... ,.......................... 10.000.00
6,000.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges........................................
Grand Master's Portrait Expense.................................... 3.500.00
Representatives' ·Mileage.................................................. 35,465.00
Printing ·················································-························· 23,500.00
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer..........................................................
3,200.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery..........................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense.................... 14,000.00
900.00
Retirement Pay ..................................................................
3,600.00
Veteran Buttons................................................................
3,500.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous..............................................
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges.................... 9,000.00
3,500.00
Fidelity Bond...............................................,............
700.00
Miscellaneous .................................•........................;
TOTAL ..............•.•............•.............•..•..•....••.•..$148,815.00

329

APPROPRIATION S

Activities Committee........•.......................................... - .....$ 3.500.00
Board of Control................................................................
1.500.00
Charters Committee..
750.00
Columbia Temple Q;~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
1,500.00
Constitution Observance Committee.
1,000.00
DeMol ay Committee...........................:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
500.00
Employment Bureaus........................................................ 11,800.00
Endowment Board............................................................ 14,000.00
History Committee................•...........................................
2.000.00
Committee on Masonic Education.. .
2,000.00
Lodge Financing Committee.........:.:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
3,000.00
Memorial Temple - Campaign Expense........................
1,200.00
ComllUttee on Public Schools..................... _.................... .
1,500.00
Boards of Relief Reimbursement for Sojourners................................
515.00
Committee on Commercialism..........................................
750.00
Sojourners Committee......................................................
250.00
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley .................................................................... 18,300.00
C d Los Angeles......._....................................................... 19,850.00
o e Commission..............................................................
150.00
Grand Lodge Legal Expense. ...........................·-·············
500.00
Investment Committee......................................................
500.00
· Relief Fund - Grand Master..........................................
1,750.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries..................................
3,775.00
Committee on Masonic foformation
1,000.00
Library Commission..........................::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
1,055.00
Committee on Relationship between
Temple Associations and Lodges ............................
800.00
1

TOTAL ............................................................$ 93,445.00
RECAPITULATJON

Administrative and Ofike. ...............................................$158,426.00
General Expense. .................................~............................. 148,815.00
Appropriations ·································································· 93,445.00
GRAND TOTAL ....................................................$400,686.00

330

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ESTIMATED INCOME

Dues from'Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc......................... $321,400.00
Income from Investments, Interest.................................... 32,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes Endowment Board Expense...................................... 14,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes Secretarial and other Services.................................. 24,000.00
TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME................ $391,400.00
TOT AL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS ...................................... 400,686.00
ESTIMATED DEFICIT................................ $

9,286.00

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Contemplated purchases including typewriters,
filing cabinets, library equipment, and
miscellaneous other equipment..................................$ 5,645.00

BUDGET
ONE QUARTER- JULY 1, 1962 - SEPTEMBER 30, 1962
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries .............................................................................. $ 21,000.00
Grand Lodge Offices 4,500.00
Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense........
75.00
Grand Treasurer............................................................... .
1,200.00
Postage and Express ...................................................... ..
1,200.00
Telephone and Telegraph.............................................. ..
1,200.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes......................
300.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits.............. ·-·····
2,238.00
Supplemental Pension - Lloyd E. Wilson ....................

Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer..........................................................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense......................
InspectoM' Aprons and Stationery............................
Retirement Pay ................................................................. .
Veteran Buttons............................................................... .
Supplies and Miscellaneous............................................. .
Insurance ..........................................................................

331
150.00
1,500.00
500.00
225.00
800.00
1,100.00
9,500.00

TOTAL .................................................................... $ 32,025.00

APPROPRIATIONS

Relief Fund - Grand Master.......................................... $
300.00
Activities Committee..........................................................
2,000.00
Board of Control. .............................................................
300.00
Charters Committee..........................................................
175.00
Columbia Temple Committee............................................
375.00
Constitution Observance Committee................................
200.00
DeMolay Committee........................................................
100.00
Endowment Board............................................................
2,000.00
History Committee............................................................
500.00
Committee on Masonic Education ....................................
400.00
Lodge Financing Committee............................................
400.00
Memorial Temple -Campaign Expense....................... .
300.00
Committee on Public Schools............................................
250.00
Committee on Commercialism..........................................
175.00
Code Commission. .............................................................
50.00
Investment Committee......................................................
125.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries..................................
75.00
Sojourners Committee......................................................
50.00
250.00
Committee on Masonic Information ................................
Library Commission ..........................................................
250.00
TOTAL ....................................................................$ 8,275.00

TOTAL .................................................................... $ 31,713.00
RECAPITULATION
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication....................................................$ 10,000.00
750.00
Conferences ......................................................................
3,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense..........................
4,500.00
Printing ·············································-·······························

Administrative and Offlce................................................ $ 31,713.00
General Expen·se. .........................._................................... 32,025.00
Appropriations ..................................................................
8,275.00
GRAND TOTAL. .................................................•.$ 72,013.00

333

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

332

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE AUDIT
We attach the following .for your information:
LYBRAND. Ross BROS.&. MONTGOMERY
CERTll'IED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
ONE:

BUSH

JuNE 30 I 1961

EXHIBIT A

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES,
AND FUND BALANCE

EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
AND EXPENSES DISBURSED

FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JUNE 36 I 1961

TWO PAGES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

JUNE 30, 1961

SCHEDULE 1

INVESTMENTS

JUNE 30 I . 1961

SCHEDULE 2

CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM

SCHEDULE 3

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

SCHEDULE 4

GENERAL EXPENSE

STRE:E:T

SAN FRANCISCO 4 .
YUKON 1• 9Jl.J.J

The Most Worshipf'ul Grand lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons or the
State of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8, California
We have examined the statement of assets, liabilities,
and f'und balance or The Most Worshipf'ul Grand lodge of Free and

LODGES

EXPENSE

Accepted Masons or the State of California as of June 30, 1961,
and the related statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed for the year then ended.

Our examination was made in

SCHEDULE 5

such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
In our opinion, the accompanying statements present
fairly the assets, liabilities, and fund balance of The Most
of California at June 30, 1961, arising primarily from cash
transactions, and the revenue received and expense disbursed by
it for the year then ended, on a basis consistent with that of
the preceding year.

19tl

COMPARATIVE WITH
FISCAL YEARS ENDED

APPROPRIATIONS

COMPARATIVE WITH ·
FISCAL YEARS ENDED

JUNE 36, 1961 A@Jro
AND WITH B ET

circumstances.

Worshipf'ul Grand lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State

COMPARATIVE WITH
FISCAL YEARS ENDED
AND 1960
JUNE 302
AND ITH BUDGET

JUNE 30M9-tfTA~

accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such tests or the accounting records and

'
FISCAL YEAR ENDED
. JUNE 36, 1961

July 20, 1961

334

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES,
AND FUND BALANCE

JUNE 30, 1961

$252, 511.61
145, 108.04
243,163.08
640,782.73
OTHER ASSETS:
FUrniture and fixtures (at cost) - Note 2
Insurance premiums advanced for Lodges Note 3
Refundable deposit with airline
Sundr1 receivables
TOTAL ASSETS

43,565.19
578.02
42§.00
26 . 49

44,836.70
$949,328.70

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
LIABILITIES:
Contributions of initiates, held for the
Endowment Fund of the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial - Note 4
$ 5,214.oo
Advance payments by Lodges on annual
4,960.00
returns
Contributions of employees of Grand Lodge
348.84
and its agencies to pension fil.nd
166.15
Payroll taxes withheld from emplo~eee
Reserve for· "California Freemason' 201l;i3.40
Hate 7
$ 30,822.39
Total Liabilities
P'UND BALANCE:
849, 740.10
Balance, June 30, 1960
Less: Transfer to Reserve tor
~-"California Fre~maeon",
authorized at 1960
Co1111111.1n1cation of Grand
Lodge - Note 7
11442.42
842,290.67
.!!!!!: Net revenue for year ended
z6 1212.64
June 30, 1961 - Exhibit B
2181206.31
Balance, June 30, 1961
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

$9491328.zo

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

335

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
REVENuE:
Contributions received from Lodges Schedule 2
Lees: Contributions received for
--special purposes:
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memorial
Temple
George Washington Masonic
National Memorial
Fees for charters and dispensations
Rents from Columbia Temple
Revenue from insurance premiums
advanced for Lodges
Revenue from investments and savings:
Dividends on stock
Interest on bond·s
Interest on bank accounts
Sale of supplies held for resale
Purchase of supplies for resale
Subscriptions for "California
Freemason"
Correspondence committee - Expenditures
of publishing "California Freemason" Note 6 · ·
·
Return by Grand Master Joe L. Shell of
unused eir,penee appropriation
Total Revenue
EXPENSE:
Administrative and office
expense - Schedule 3
General expense - Schedule 4
Appropriations - Schedule 5
Lese: Reimbursement from
--ifilsonic Homes .of California: ·
Secretarial and other
services
$20,000.00
Endowment Board expense
13,850.83

EXHIBIT B
FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JUNE 36, 19()1

$1, 137 ,618.68
$506,863.00
304,687 .oo
z 1348.oo

818,898.00
318,720.68
625.00

375.00

1,718.41
18,515.04
12,982.28
4i382.69
23,707.83
201024.05

35,887.01
3,653.78

68,411.66
53,436.84

15,034.82

950.37

148,144.47
138,452.89
921200.15
378,797.51

33,850.83
Net Expense
Balance
GAIN ON SA!ES OF SECURITIES HELD FOR INVESTMENTS
NEt REVENUE FOR YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1261 -.Exhibit A •

344, 9.116. 68
32,018.39

44,197.25
76.~?15.64

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

336

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

337

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

JUNE 30, 1961

Note 1 - Basis of Accounting
The financial statements are prepared on the cash basis
of accounting. Current operating expense bills
applicable to the year ended June 30, 1961 and unpaid
as at that date were of nominal amount.
Note 2 - Furniture and Fixtures
Grand Lodge at the 1957 Communication approved the
capitalization of amounts expended for furnishings
and equipment after that date • . Additions during the
year ended June 30, 1961 amounted to $3,256.48 as
compared with the budget of $4,425.00.
Note 3 . - Insurance Premiums Advanced for Lodges
Comprehensive public liability insurance is purchased
by Grand Lodge on a three-year basis to cover the
Lodges not otherwise covered by su~h insurance.
P;remiums are collected from the covered Lodges on an
annual premium basis. At June 30, 1961, $578.02 was
advanced and due from the Lodges.
Note 4 - George Washington Masonic National Memorial
During the current year contributions totaling $7 1 086.00
were remitted to the Endowment Fund of the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, in
accordance with the Ordinances, leaving a balance of
contributions on hand at June 30, 1961 of $5,21~.oo.
This balance will be remitted to the Endowment Fund
during the year ended June 30, 1962.
Note 5 - Retirement Income Plan
The 1955 Communication approved the inclusion of the
employees of Grand Lodge under the Masonic Homes of
California Retirement Income Plan. On October 3, 1958
the Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes of California
approved and adopted an amended plan to extend
coverage of the plan to the employees of Grand Lodge
effective on January 1, 1956, and to the employees of
Masonic Clubhouses, Boards of Relief, and Employment
Bureaus effective on January 1, 1959. The plan, as
amended, has been approved by the Internal Revenue
Service as a qualified trust under Section 4ol(a) and
exempt from income tax under the provisions of Section
50l(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

JUNE 30, 1961

Note 5 - Retirement Income Plan (Continued)
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961, the current
service cost amounted to $12 1 033.96 for the participating employees of Grand Lodge and $13,415.19 for
such employees of Grand Lodge agencies.
The total past service cost for the participating
employees of Grand Lodge and its agencies amounted to
approximately $128,000 as at January 1, 1961, according
to the actuary. This amount has not been funded. In
lieu thereof minimum annual payments of 2-1/2 percent
on the past service cost have been paid to June 30
1961. Such payments for the fiscal year ended Jun~ 30
1961 amounted to $1,296.25 for the employees of Grand '
lodge and $1,903.75 for the employees of Grand lodge
agencies.
Note 6 - "California Freemason"
During the year ended June 30, 1961, subscriptions to
"California Freemason" together with miscellaneous
sales produced revenue of $68,471.66. Expenses of the
Correspondence Committee in publishing issues during
the year amounted to $53,436.84, resultin~ in an excess
of revenue over expenses for the year of '15,034.82, as
shown on Exhibit B.
Note 7 - Reserve for "California Freemason"
The 1958 Communication authorized the establishment of
t.he Reserve for "California Freemason" to provide
against the time when the cash receipts, due to the
prepayment of subscriptions, may not equal the current
expenses of publishing the magazine. The 1960
Communication appropriated $7,449.43 to be transferred
to the reserve, which was the excess of the cash receipts from subscriptions over publication costa for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 196o. This transfer
increased the reserve to $20,133.4o at June 30, 1961.
Approximately 274,ooo individual copies of ruture
issues of "California Freemason" were subscribed and
paid for at June 30, 1961, at rates of fifteen to
twenty-five cents per copy.
Note 8 - Contingent Liability
Under date of October 4, 1955, the officers of California
'Masonic Memorial Temple signed promissory notes with
six San Francisco banks for a total of $3,000,000.00.
Under authorization given at the 1953 Communication,
Grand Lodge became the guarantor of these notes.
California Masonic Memorial Temple owed $1,493,790.00
on these notes at June 30, 1961.

338

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page l
JUNE 30, 1961

INVESTMENTS

339

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

SCHEDULE l
Page 2
JUNE 30, 1961

COMMON STOCK
FACE VALUE

$ 2,000
25,000
10,000
50,000
19,000
75,000
4,600
4o,OOO
25,000

SHARES
Internationa l Minerals & Chemical
Gorporation, 3.65%, 1977
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company,
4. 625%' 1990
Philadelphia Electric Co., 4.375%, 1986
Potomac Electric Power Co., 5-l/~, 1994
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co.,
4-5/~. 1993
Southwestern Bell Telephone Company,
4-3/4%, 1992
Virginian Railway Company, 6%, 2008
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/~, 1972-67
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2'%, 1990
TOTAL BONDS

$ 1,925.50
25,656.25
10,000.00
51,233,90
19,248.33
75,64o.50
5,129.00
37,990,63
25,687.50
$252,511.61

PREFERRED STOCK
SHARES
100
100
45
200
100
100
100
100
200
100
100
200
100
200
200
100
100
300
100
700

$ 10,597.55
American Metal Climax, Inc., 4-l/2'%
9,846.80
Bristol-Mye rs Co., 3-3/~
4,517 .oo
Canada Dry Corp., $4.25
10,625.35
Duquesne Light Company, $2.10
10,351.80
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/~
10,492.45
National Gypsum Co., $4.50
9,095.85
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, 3.~
10,222.18
Northern States Power Co. of Minnesota, $4.10
3,937.28
Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co., ~
10,000.00
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.36%
8,922.88
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.5a,t;
5,231.48
Public Service Co. of Indiana,, 4.16%
3,206.48
Public Service Electric & Gas Company, $l.4o
4,560.50
San Diego Gas & Electric Company, 5.6o,t
5,110.00
Southern California Edison Company, 4.2~
2, 178.50
Southern California Edison Company, 4.32'%
8,524.48
Sperry Rand Corporation, $4.50
7,960.49
Sunray Mid-Contine nt Oil Co., 4-1/2'% A
2,842.16
Tidewater Oil Company, $1.20
6,884.81
Union Pacific Rail.road Company, 4%
TOTAL PREFERRED STOCK

$145, 108.04

100
300
75
100
120
300
110

198

460
98
286
200
467
100
300
200
100
200
4o4
193
100
300
214
90
100
100
371
100
121
110
100
107
100
300
120
500
100
100

COST
Chemical Corp.
$ 3,642.46
American Can Co.
12,291.68
Atlantic Refining Company
2,457 .04
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
5,444.4o
Bankers Trust Company of New York
2,730.00
Champion Paper and Fibre Company
8,725.14
Chase Manhattan Bank
3,268.32
Chemical Bank New York Trust Co.
l0,370 . 38
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
7,908 . 28
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.
3,421.41
Continental Baking Co.
10,964.16
Continental Insurance Company
9,462.38
Crocker-Ang lo National Bank
6,856.59
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
5,519.48
Duquesne Light Company
4,179.50
Fansteel Metallurgic al Corporation
11,038.96
Fireman's Fund Insurance Company
5,144.10
General Motors Corporation
9,246.32
General Public Utilities Corp.
4,592.78
Home Insurance Company of New York
7,265.50
Ingersoll-Ra nd Company
8,497 .45
Internationa l Harvester Co.
13,449.63
Irving Trust Company (N~w York)
6,619.08
Manufacture rs Trust Company
2,385.00
Montana-Dak ota Utilities Co.
2,946.81
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
8,447. 4o
Ho~hern States Power Co. of Minnesota
4,114.91
Ohio 011 Company
4,390.75
Pacific Oas and Electric Company
4,343.21
Public Service Electric & Gas Company
2,744.55
Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc.
4,856.81
Southern California Edison Company
3,654.25
Southern Pacific Comp~
2,481 . 25
Standard Oil Company (New Jersey)
15,042.41
Standard Oil Company (Ohio)
4,562.62
SUnray Mid-Contine nt Oil Co.
13,526.57
United Gas Corp.
3,537.50
Western Bancorporat ion
3,034.oo
TOTAL COMMON STOCK
$243, 163. 08
A~lied

340

SCHEDULE 2

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM LODGES

FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JUNE 36, 1961

GRAND LODGE SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES:
Master Masons on June 36,
242,1 40
1900
Less: Members whose
3,702
--atres were remitted
Members paid for per
238,438@$1.25 ea.$298,047.50
1960 annual refurns
Add: Adjustments for
---Previous years
298,10 .68
Degrees conferred i~ year
20, 616@ $1. 00 ea. 20,616.00 $ 318,720.68
ended June 30, l9o0
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA CONTRIBUTIONS:
On Master Ma ~ ons at
June 30, 19o0, per 1960
238, 438 @$1.00 ea, 238,438.00
annual returns
Contributions of
initiate~ and affiliates @ ,25.00 each:
Final payments for ~ear
ended June 30, 19c0,
per 1960 annual returns $ 60,825,00
Ins!~llment payments on
,?08,325.00
lYt>l annual returns
269,150.00
Less: Adjustments for pre725.00 268,425.00
--vrous years and refunds
506,863_._o o
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL
TEMPLE CONTRIBUTIONS:
On Master MasQnB at
Ju~e 30, 19o0, per
238, 438 @$1.00 ea.
19o0 annual returns
ContributioQ!! of initiates @ ,9.00 each:
Final payment for ~~ar
endea June 30, lYt>O,
19,233.00
per 1960 annual returns
Ins~~llment payments on
47 ,214.oo
lYt>l annual returns
66,447.00
prefor
Less: Adjustments
198.oo 66,249.00
304,687.00
--vrous years and rei'W:ds
GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC NATIONAL
MEMORIAL CONTRIBUTIONS:
Final payment for year ended
June 30, 1960, per 1960
2,134.oo
annual returns
Installment payments on 1961
5,246.oo
annual returns

1,380.oo

Less: Adjustments for previou6
and refunds
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM
LODGES - Exhibit_B

~are

341

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

_
___3_2_.oo_

1, 348. oo

GRAND LODGE, P. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
ADMINISTRATIVE AND
OFFICE EXPENSE

SCHEDULE 3

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
.TUNE 30, 1961 AND 19§0

JUNE 30,
· 1961

JUNE 30,
1960

DECREASE
1NCREASE
COMPAHED WJTH PREVIOUS YE.AR
Salaries
$ 86,178,90 $ 65,536,85 $20,642.05 $
Grand Lodge offices Temple operation
and maintenance
expense
18,000.00
18,ooo.oo
Audit
3,000.00
3,000.00
Grand treasurer
100.00
100,00
Postage and exprea·a
~ 0~2 ~
~,92~·s8
tele~raph
l,~a~:g~
,11 • 5
Telepfione and
:0~1:9
Social security and
unemployment taxes 1, 178. 73 '"
2,598,66
3
·~66:66
Investment counsel
500. 0
Retirement pension
plan - ·Grand lodge
office employees Note 5
46,047 .65
13,330.21
32, 717. 44
Retirement pension
plan - Employees
other agencies "426,91
Note 5
15,745.85
15.318.94

..

$]-48,144.47 $157.589.14 $23,799.68 $33,244.35

COMPARED WITH BUDGET

~

BUDGET

Salaries
$ 86,178,90 $ 86,400.00
Grand Lodge offices
Temple oreration
and main enance
18,000.00
18,ooo.oo
exfense
.
Audi
3,000.oc
3,000.00
Grand treasurer
260.00
4,~ o.oo
Posta~e and exrress
~,92j.28
4, 50.00
Telep one and ele~raph
'11 .85
Social security an
3,000.00
unemplorroent taxes
3,16[;·26
_, .o
500.00
Investmen couneel
Retirement pension
plan - Grand Lodge
office employees 12,744,00
13,330,21
Note 5
Retirement pension
plan - E!llployees
other agencies •
Note 5
10 112z.oo
1:21~18.24
Additional authorized
by Grand Master
TOTAL

148,144.47

142,SOl.OO
6 18oO.OO

$148,144.47 $149,601.00

~

$

~

221.10

$

. .•
,-

~ ~

:u

2i~ 00

1
-.777. 29 .

586,21

21 161.94
$6,222.44

$11181.97

342

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE, F, & A. M. OF CAI,IFORNIA
GENERAL EXPENSE

SCHEDULE 4.
Page 1
FISCAL YEARS ENDED

JUNE 30, 1961 AND 1960
JUNE 30,
1961

343

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A, M. OF CALIFORNIA
GENERAI, EXPENSE

SCHEDULE 4
Page 2
FISCAL YEAR

JUNE 30,
1960

INCREASE DECREASE
COMPARED WITH PREVIOUS YEAR
Annual Communication
$ 13,888.91 $ 12,936.77 $ 952.14 $
Conferences
4,992.53
4,329.66
662.87
Grand Lodge officers'
travel expense
10,407. 72
9,226.84 1,180.88
Grand Organist and
Srand Tiler
100,00
850.00
750.00
Grar.rd Mast~r's travel,
secretarial, and
10,000.00
miscellaneous expen3e
6oo.oo
10,600.00
Investment counsel for
lodges
5,000.00
5,000.00
Grand Master's portrait
expense
185.86
185.86
Representatives'
mileage
35,439.24
34,843.95
595.29
Printing
23,127.85
22,803,33
324.52
Ritualistic expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer
600.00
Inspectors' aprons
and stationery
1,625.10 1,471.88
3,096,98
Ritual Committee and
inspectors' conference and travel
expense
178.69
13,8o5.29 13,983.98
Retirement pay
900,00
900.00
Veteran buttons
2,569.06
3,238,98
Supplies and
miscellaneous
3,614.83
3,225.49
Insuranee:
Workmen's compensation
for lodges
8,957,71
7,542.37 1,415.34
Miscellaneous
346.99
769.98
422.99

ENDED

JUNE 36, 1961
UNDER

COMPARED WITH BUDGET
Annual· Communication
$ 13,888.91 $ 14,ooo.oo $
Conferences
4,992,53
5,000.00
Grand Lodge officers'
travel expense
8,000.00 2,407,72
10, 407. 72
Grand Organist and
Grand Tiler
850.00
850.00
Grand Master's travel,
. secretarial, and
miscellaneous
expense
10,000.00
10,000.00
Investment counsel
for lodges
5,000.00
5,000.00
Grand Master's
portrait expense
185.86
5,000.00
Representatives•
mileage
35,439.24 37,500.00
Printing
23,127.85
23,500.00
Ritualistic expense:
Grand Lecturer
600.00
600.00
Inspectors• aprons
and stationery
3,096,98
2,000.00 1,096.98
Ritual Committee and
inspectors• conference and travel
expense
13,8o5.29
14,000.00
Retirement pay
900.00
900.00
Veteran but11ons
3,238,98
3,250.00
Supplies and
miscellaneous
3,614.83
4,500.00
Insurance:
Workmen's compensation
for lodges
8,957,71
8,000.00
957.71
Miscellaneous
1,250.00
346.99

$138,452.89 .$JJ.¢.706.53 ' $7,948:04 $1,201.68

111,09
7,47

4,814.14
2,060.76
372.15

194.71
11.02
885,17
903.01

143,350.00 ,$4,462.41 ,$9,359.52
Additional authorized
by Grand Master

4,700.00
$138,452,89 $148,050.00

SCHEDULE
Page

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

1

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE 30, 1961 AND 1960

APPROPRIATIONS
JUNE 30 1
1961

JUNE 30,
1960

345

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

344

FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JUNE 3o, 1961

APPROPRIATIONS
ACTUAL

INCREASE

DECREASE

COMPARED WITH PREVIOUS YEAR
$ 3,423.91 $ 723. 47 $ 2,700.44 $ 179.63
Activities Committee
1,549. gr
1,370.34
67.92
Board of Control
454.44
386.52
Charters Committee
Columbia Temple
2,499.75
1,198.25
3,698.00
Committee
Constitution Observence
354.85
488.89
843.74
214.99
Committee
448.10
233.11
De Mclay Committee
464.00
11,336.00
11,soo.oo
Employment Bureaus
2,299,14
13,850.83 11,551.69
Endowment Board
611.19
393.06
1,004.25
History Committee
Committee on Masonic
62.13
1,925.69
1,987.82
Education
Lodge Financing
169.89
2,401.70
2,571.59
Committee
3,926.30
Memorial Temple
9,997.07 13,923.37
Campaign Expense
Committee on Public
633.25
914.84
1,548.09
Schools
Boards of Relief 182.10
Reimbursement for
759.11
577,01
Sojourners
306.24
Com:nittee on
214.65
520.89
1.97
Commercialism
73,59
71.62
Sojourners Committee
1,100.00
University Clubhouses:
18,000.00 19,100.00
Berkeley
16,500.00 16,000.00
Los Angeles
Code Commission
964.20
Grand Lodge legal
2,692.70
1,728.50
Expense
11.33
429.78
441.11
Investment Committee
5.00
Relief Fund - Grand
600.00
595.00
Master
33.74
Committee on Ma.sonic
44.29
10.55
67,97
Cemeteries
67,97
Committee on Visual Aid~
Committee on Ma.sonic
621.53
621.53
418.61
Information .
418.61
Library Commission
$92,200.1 2 $§1.191.56 $11.1s2.41 $§,z43.82

SCHEDULE ~
Page

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

COMPARED WITH BUDGET
Activities Committee
Board of Control
Charters Committee
Columbia Temple
Committee
Constitution Observance
Committee
De Mclay Committee
Employment Bureaus
Endowment Board
History Committee
Committee on Masonic
Education
Lodge Financing
Committee
Memorial Temple
Campaign Expense
Committee on Public
Schools
Boards of Relief Reimbursement for
Sojourners
Committee on Conmercial1sm
Sojourners Committee
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley
Los Angeles.
Code Commission
Grand Lodge legal
Expense
Investment Committee
Relief Fund .. Grand
Master
Coomittee on Ma.sonic
Cemeteries
Committee on Visual Aids
Committee on Masonic
Information
Library Commission

OVER

3,698.00

2,500.00

~

$ 576.09
129. 66
363,48

$ 3,423.91 $ 4,ooo.oo $
1,500.00
l,3~0.34
750.00
3 6.52
1,198.oo

156.26
516.89

1,000.00
843.74
233.11
~50.00
11,soo.oo 11, oo.oo
13,850.83 14,000.00
3,000.00
1,004.25

149.17
1,995.75

1,987.82

2,000.00

12.18

2,571,59

2,750.00

178. 41

9,997.07

10,000.00

2.93

1,548.09

2,000.00

451.91

577,01

58o.oo

2,99

520.89
71,62

750.00
250.00

229.11
178,38

18,ooo.oo
16,500.00

18;000.00
16,500.00
150.00

150.00

1,728.50
441.11

1,000.00
500.00

595.00

750.00

155.00

10.55

250,00

239.45

621.53
418.67:

1,500.00
675.00

878.47
226.;U

92,200.15
Additional authorized
b~ Grand Master

BUDGET

728.50

58,89

96,955.00 $1,926.50 $6,681.32
2 1200.00

$92,200.15 $991455.00

346

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AUDIT OF ANNUAL RETURNS

LYBRAND, Ross BROs. &. MONTGOMERY
CERTIP'IED PUBLIC AocoUNTANTS
ON IC

BUSH

STREET

SAN FRANCISCO " 4
YUJllON .. a>UI

The llost Worshl.pful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8, California
We have made an examination of · the 1961 Annual Returns of
the Constituent Lodges or Grand Lodge, P. & A. II. of California,
reporting on membership and on the payments due Grand Lodge in
accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and Ordinances
and the action taken by Grand Lodge at the 1960 annual communication.
OUr examination was made 1n accordance with generally accepted auditi.ng standards, and accord1ngly included such tests of the accounti.ng
records and such other auditing procedures as we .considered necessar7
1n the circumstances.
The total payments due Grand Lodge, based upon the 1961
annual returns, amount to $1,061,082.75, as llhown by th~ accompan)'ing
statement, marked Elchibit A. At the date of thl.s report, August 21,
1961, this amount had been collected in full and transferred to the
Grand Treasurer, with the exception or a balance ot $4,711.25 arising
trOD necessary adJu11tments 1n the returns. This balance was 1n pro.:.
cesa ot adJustment and collection at the date ot thl.s report.

August 21, 1961.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

347

GRAND LODGE, J.l'. & A. M. OP CALIFORNIA
EXHIBI'l' A
8TATl!MBNT OP 1961 ANNUAL RETURNS
PERIOD WllBN RECEIVED
TOTAL . PER
JUL 1, 1961
FISCAL
1961 ANNUAL YEAR ENDED
THROUGH
RETURNS
20, 1961
AUG
1961
30,
JUN
GRAND LODGE SUPPORT

6F Xc'l'lV!TllS:

Master Masons
f~6yune 30 ' 243,682
Less: Members
-o?' Research
<1~
Lodges
Member.5 other ~
than or
Research
243,346
Lodges
Lessz Members
"-?Or Whom per
capita waived
(includii;ig due5
~
remitted)
Balance or
239,931@ $ 1.25 $ 299,913.75
Deme:~:r~onYerred in year
ended June 30,
20 102.00
20,102 8 • 1.00
1961
$· 32o!o15.75
MASONIC HOMES OP

20,102.00
$j20,0i5.72

ext!Fatrnn

cdN'l'RTuOT!ONS:

llli1ance ot members
on June 30, 1961
239,931 8 $ 1.00 $ 239,931.00
as above
Contributions
~dlnitiates

7,701 8 $25.00
Affiliates
CALIFORNIA MASONIC

MEMORfil T!MPtE
cONTRIMTrdNS:

192,525.00
4 2!2i5§.oo

* d

llii1ance or members
on June 30, 1961
Co~~r~g~~~ons 239,931 8 $ 1.00 $ 239 1 931.00
'61 812.00
ot lrUtiates 6,868 @ $ 9.00
301!r43.00
G.BORGB WASHINGTON

MASdNrc NAtfONAL

MkMMfil
cdN'HllBOTIONS:
Contrl6utions
ot Initiates

*

6,868 8 $ i.oo $

6,868.oo

•
"
147 525.00 45 000.00
$147!525.00 $g84!9;µ.oo

$
14 598.00
47,214.oo
47,214.00 $254!529.oo

*

$ 5,246.ob $ 1,622.00

346

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

AUDIT OF ANNUAL RETURNS

347

GRAND LODGE, F. & A, M. OF CALIFORNIA
EXHIBIT A
STATEMENT OF 1961 ANNUAL RETURNS
PERIOD WHEN RBCEIVBD
TOTAL PER
JUL 1, 1961
FISCAL
1961 ANNUAL YEAR ENDED
THROUGH
RETURNS
JUN 30, 1961 AUG 20, 1961
Gl!AND LODGE SUPPORT
0

LYBRAND, Ross BRos. &. MoNTGOMERY
CERTIJr'IED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
ONE

BUSH

STREET

SAN FRANCISCO " 4
YUKON H!lU>

The Moot Worshipful Grand Lodge of
:Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8, California
We have made an examination of · the 1961 Annual Returns or
the Constituent Lodges of Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California,
reporting on membership and on the payments due Grand Lodge in
accordance with the provisions or the Constitution and Ord1nances
and the action taken by Grand Lodge at the 1960 annual communication .
()Qr examination was made in accordance with generally accepted aud1t1ng atandardu, and accordj,ngly included such tests or the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we .considered necessary
~ the circumstances .
The total payments due Grand Lodge, based upon the 1961
annual returns, amount to $1,061,082. 75, as shown by the accompanying
11tatement, marked Exhibit A. At the date or this report, August 21,
1961, this amount had been collected in full and transferred to the
Grand Treasurer, With the exception of a balance or $4,711.25 arising
trom necessary adJu~tmenta in the returns. Thia balance was in pro~
ceea or adJuatment and collection at the date or this repc>rt.

OP ACi'lvli'lEs:

Master Masons
f~6iune 30'
Less: Members

243,682

~Research

~~6
Lodges
Member.a other ~
than of
Research
243,346
Lodges
Lees: Members
--r<>r whom per
c;apita waived
lincludii;ig clues
-hl!2.
remitted)
Balance or
239,931@ $ 1.25 $ 299,913,75
De~:~:r~on'erred in year
eru1ed June 30,
20,102 @ • l.00
20,102.00
1961
$ 320,015.75
MASONIC HOMES OF

cXLIFORNll

cON1'RmOTloNS:
Biilance of members
on June 30, 1961
239,931 8 $ l.00 $ 239,931.00 •
as above
$239,931,00
Contributions
or Initiates
and
Affiliates
45,000.00
l4t,52~.oo
$14 ,52 .oo $284,931.oo
CALIFORNIA MASONIC

MEMORllt TEMPLE
cONTRIBOTIONs:
Balance or members
on June 30, 1961
$239,931.00
Co~~rtg~~~ona 239,931 @ $ l.00 $ 239,931.00 $
or Initiates 6,868 @ $ 9.00
61,812.00
14,~98.oo
47,214.oo
$ 3ol,743.oo
47,214.oo $254,4!9.oo
GEORGE WASHINGTON
MAsCNlc NATIONAL

*

MEMOHnt

CONTRmDTIONS:

August 21, 1961.

Contrl6utiona
or Initiatee
~

6,868 8 $ i. oo $__6""'' "'8"'"68-..._oo...:. •

5,246.oO •

1,622.00

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

348

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT .

LYBRAND. Ross BROS.&. MONTGOMERY
C.ERTJFIED Pu•uc AccoUNTANTS
ONE

BuaH STRCET

SAN FRANCISCO 4

AKHD!IT C

PROPERTY FUND

JUNE 30, 1%1

EXHIBIT D

ENDOWMEJIT AND TRUST PUHDS

JtJNE 30, 1%1

EXHIBIT E

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

JUNE 30, 1%1

EXHIBIT P

PERMANE!IT ENDOWMENT Pl1llD

JUNE 30,

1%1

EXHIBIT 0

JOHN Alm LENA LUCICBHBACH PUND

JUNE 30,

1%1

EXHIBIT H

GEORGE P, BRIGHAM AllII ~URA E0
RI>
BRIGHAM SCiiOLARSHIP

JUNE 30, 1%1

'YUKON t-&aH

Masonic Homes ot Calitol'nia
Cal1torn1a Masonic Memorial Temple
1111 California Street
San Prancieco 8, Cal1torn1a
Ve have examined th~ statement ot assets, reserves, and
rune! balances or Masonic Homes ot Calitol'nia, a California noncorporation, as ot June 30, 1961, and the related
stateiaent ot revenue received and expense disbursed tor the )'981'

EXHIBIT I

OEORCJEwh AND PLORB~;§ 0 1 PERIME

EXHIBIT J

HARRD!:T C, VADIBIOH EHDOWMEJIT

EXHIBIT K

C, If. PLIJIT TRUST llUHD

Jt1HE 30, 1%1

EXHIBIT L

LKOJfARD GROSS MEMORIAL PUHD

JUNE 30, 1%1

Our examination was made in accordance with genaral.17

accepted auditing standards, and accordinglJ' 1.ncluded such tests
ot the accounting records and suCh other auditing procedures as
we considered necessar)' 1.n the circumstances .
In ' our opinion, the accomparJTing statements present;

ENDO

STUDEJITS'

EXHIBIT N

RESIDE:ttrS• DEPOSITS

JtJNE 30, 1%1

SCHEDULR l

IHVES'l'MElfl'S
(Con.aolidated schedule ot investments,
other than investments ot the
Permanent Endowment J.l'und)

Jt1HE 30, 1'%1

SCHEDULE 2

IJIVESTIO!:NTS
PERXAHER'l' EHDOWMEJIT ll'D1ID OP
MASOR!C ii1iR!?l OP ilALIPORKIA

J1JJIB 3Q, 1%1

SCllEDtJLE l

RESERVES J'OR SPECIAL PURPOSES

SC.llEDULK 4

WENSB

TWO PAGES

JiOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEX!JiTS

yelll'.

Ve attach the tollowing:

EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED AND

EXPENSE DISBURSED - GENERAL FORD

LOAN .AHD .SCHOLARSHIP Pt1HD

Jt1HE 30, 1%1

J1JJIB 3Q, 1%1

PISCAL YEARS ENDED
JlJli! 30 I 19§1 AND 19§0
JtJNE 30, 1%1

Cert11'ied 1'11.bllc Accountants

year then ended, on a basis consistent with that ot tho preceding

.T1JllB 3Q I

JUNE 30, 1%1

d~,,e-.,4- '"~-h.

transactions, and.the revenue received and expense disbursed b)'
it and the changes 1.n reserves and 1.n tund balances during the

STATEME!IT OP ASSETS 1 RBSBRVB.S, ABD
FORD BALIHCF.S

JUNE 30, 1%1

INMl!TY WRD

tairl7 the assets, rese=e·s, and tund balances ot Masonic Homes
ot Cal1torn1a ~t June 30, 1961 arising primaril.7 tro• cash

EXHIBIT A

NT ltlHD

EXHIBIT M

proti~

then ended.

349

1961

YEAR EHDED

Jl1HE 30, 19§1

August U, 1961

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

352

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT C

MASONIC HOM!S OP CALIFORNIA

JUNE 30, 1961

PJ!OPERTY FtTND

$4,81q,757,62

Balanc e, June 30, 1960
Home:
Additi ons to proper ties or the Decato
Charged to Reserv e tor Additi ons and
$
Replac ements :
Floor tile
Toledo saw
Sound proJec tor
Charged to Decoto Specia l Reserv e:
Lawn sprink ler
cost
BncloBUre or stairs , balanc e orcost
Emergency lightin g, balanc e or e
Interco mmuni cation 117stem, balanc
ot coat
Pan 1n telepho ne booth
Landsc aping
Acous tical tile
Carpet ing
orrice turnitu re and equ1pa ent
Archi tect's tee tor remode ling
Ice machine
Charged to Hew Hospit al Reael'Ve: or
Jfew hospit al buildi ng - balanc e
constr uction coats
Charged to c. N. Pl1nt Trust Pund:
Hospit al turnitu re and equipa ent
Total Additi ons to Proper ties ot
the Decato Home
Covina Home:
Additi ons to proper tiee or the ons
and
Charged to ReaerYe tor Additi
Replac ements :
s711tea
Gate 1nteroollll\Ul1cation
and double gate equipa ent
New lightin g
Washer and dryer
Blectr ical instal lation tor aitcond1t ioner
Stainl ess steel tor kitche n
Cement mixer
nng teat set
Umbre llas and ·chaise lounge
Charged to Cov1na Specia l Reael'VB:
Two refrig erator units
Total Additi ons to Proper ties ot
the Covina HOie

353

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

EXJiIBIT D

ENDOWMENT AND TRUST PUNDS

JUKE 30 1961
I

ot the Masonic Homes ot
Permanent Endowment Pund
Califo rnia - Exhibi t P
John and lena Iucken bach Pund - Exhibi t G
George P, BrighamHand Laura E, Brigham Schola rBhip
Pund - Exhibi t
George X,t Iand Floren ce G, Per1na Bndo'lllllent F'und
Bxhibi
Harrie t c, Wadleigh Endo'lllllent Annuit y Pund Exhibi t J
C, N, Pl1nt Trust Pund - Exhibi t Jr
leonar d Gross Memorial Pund - Exhibi t L
Studen ts• Loan and Schola rship Pund - Exhibi t X
Reside nts• Depoa ita - Exhibi t H
TOTAL - Exhibi t A

$11,355,093,95
75,132,41
31,296,09
20,379,00
12,425,37
321,354,83
9~5.00

10,900,22
43,221.59
$11,876,728,46

27, 4.20
EXHIBIT B

17,595.77

1,1rr .16
2,469. "7

286,00

115.00
418.00
205,92

RKSERVES POR SPECIAL PORPoSES - Schedu le 3

JUHK 30,

Reserv e tor Additi ons and Replac ements
Covina Specia l Reserv e
Decato Specia l Reserv e
Funera l Reserv e
Bntertainme~t Reserv e
Unapp ropriat ed Reserv e

• 778,347,70
8o5,397,07
217,301,39
90,750,00
5,000, 00
665,161.06

TOTAL - Exhib it A

$2,561,957,22

~~:~

5,145. 90
1184,28
5,1539,18
,032,83
$5,043
_

Balanc e, June 30, 1961 - Ezhibi t. A
or this statem ent.
The accOlllJ>&n1'1.ng notes are an integl 'al part

The acconipanying notu are an integr al part or

this statem ent,

1961

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

355

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

354

EXHIBIT P

The principal of this :f'und is restricted by Ordinances of Grand Lodge
so that no part or the principal shall ever be expended for any purpose,
and the income therefrom shall be used only for the maintenance and
general operation of the Masonic Homes.
JUNE 30, 1961
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

EXHIBIT Q

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA
JOHN AND LENA IiJckENBACH FUND

The principal of this Fund, a bequest of Lena Iuckenbach, is restricted
by the terms of the will to be kept intact and the income used on~ for
the benefit of the care of orphans or the aged in Maeo!\ic Homes of
Southern California.
STATEMENT OP ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

·JUNE 30, 1961

~

CASH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCOUNI'S
INVESTMENl'S at book value - Schedule 2:
Bonds approximate market value

$4,3 6,381.73)

PrefP.rred stock (approximate market
value $1,640,870.25)
CoDDDon stock- (approximate market
value $4,813,175.01)
Total Securities ~aG~oximate
,426.99)
market value $1 ,
Notes receivable
Other assets:
Life insurance policies
Real estate and oil lease

$ 1,314,193.40
INVESTMENTS at book value - Schedule 1:
Bonde approximate market value

1, 715, 451. 32
3,691,248.32

$41, 753.12)

Common stock (approximate market value

$34,092.50)

10,020,951.87
19,931.68
1.00
----'l"'O""'""oo...

TOTAL ASSETS

$11.355,093.95

YEAR ENDED JUKE 30 1961
STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
3,792.12
$
Interest on bank accounts
231,137.18
Interest on bonds
208,939.88
Dividends on stocks
1,044.24
Interest on notes receivable
480.00
Ket income from real estate
REVENUE TRAHSPERRED TO GENERAL PUN0
$ 445,393.42
INCOME - Eihibit B
I

'Die accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

30,343,07
T4,o84,64

TOTAL ASSETS

$75,132.41
FUND BALANCE

$72,582.29

Gain on sale of coDDDon stock

2,550.12

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1961 - Exhibit D

$75.132.41

STATEMENI' OF REVENUE RECEIVED

1,293.941.59

$43,741,57

Total Securities £aG§rox1mate
market value $7_. }).62)

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1960

BALANCE, JUKE 30, 1960
INCREASE DI FUND:
$ 645,453.76
Contributions made through Lodges
37,508.44
Progress payments on pledges - unallocated
144,165,62
Bequests
453,013. 71
Gain on sale of securities and real estate
Contributions from organizations and
2,819.56
· individuals
10,980.50
Memorials

.

17.00
$11,355,093,95

FUND BALANCE

BALANCE. JUNE 30 I 1961 - Exhibit D

$ 1,047.71

CASH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCOUJfl'

$4,614,252.23

Interest on bank account
Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,

•

REVENUE TRAHSFEF.RED TO GEHERA.L Pl1MD

INCOME - Exhibit B

The accompanying notes are an integral part or this statement.

1961

185.63
1,855.58
961.80

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

356

357

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT H
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
GEORGE F, BRIGHAM ARD LAURA I, MIGHAJI
scHotARskfP F!JRD
t'Und .
be uest or Laura B, Br1gh1111, 1s held 1n
r'~a~r~c!p!~h~iiJ.~~~P rund ~or ihe bensrit or the Covina Homed the
•25 ooo 0 r which may be loaned ror that purpose, an
residents, • •
.
d
b used onlT ·ror provid1.ng scholarships.
income is restricted
an may e
~

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

!RDOWMEN'l' J#URD

The pr1nc1pal or this Pl.Ind, a.bequest or Florence Q, Perine, 1s subject
to the provision included 1n the will or the testator, that the
principal or the 1'\.lnd shall be kept intact and the income thereat only
shall be used tor the benerit or the Decoto Home.

JUKE 30· 1961

STATEMElfl' OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCB

•

CASH IH SAVINGS llAllK ACCOUlfl'

BXHIBIT I

GEORGI M, IRD PLOR!Rc! a, PERINE

STATEMElfl' OP ASSETS AND PUND BALANCE

JUliB 30, 1961

611.04
$10,379,00

INVESTMElfl'S at book value - Schedule 1:
Bonds approximate market value
$21,905.94)
Preferred stock (approximate market
value $2,765.62)
Common stock (approximate market value
$14,246.88)
Total Securities a rox1mate
mar et value

$24,637.01

10,000,00

1,071.39

TOTAL ASSETS

$20.379,00

10.976,65
36,685.05

FUND BALAJ«:E
BALAJICE, JU1IB 30, 1960

$37.296.09

TOTAL ASSETS

$20,000.00

Gain on sale or bonds
BALAJfCB, JUHB 30, 1961 - Exhibit D

.37.573,34

BALAllCB. JUKE 30, 1960

277.25

Loss on sale or bonds

$37.296.09

BALANCE, JUHB 30, 1961 - Exhibit D

STATEMENT OP REVENUE RECEIVED
Interest on bank account
Intereat'on bonds

STATEMENT OP REVENUE RECEIVED

372.00
$20.372.00

YEAR BMDBD Jl1llB 30, 1961

Interest on bank'accounts
Interest on bonds
Div1dendB on stocks
RKVENUE TRANSFERRED TO STUDElfl'S 1 LOAJf
AND SCHOLARSHIP FUHD - Exhibit M

•

REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO DECOTO
SPECIAL RESERVE - schedule 3

52.4'[

YEAR BHDBD JUHi!: 30, 1961

•
•

766.58

"6.50

• 1,265.55

The acco1Q1>an;y1.ng notes are an integral part or th18 statement.

·•

The accompanying notes are an integral part ot this statqent,

828.30

358

359

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
HARRIET c. WADLEIGH ENDOWMEffr
ANNUITY FUND

EXHIBIT J

This Fund, in the original amount or $30,000.00, is subject to a
contract with the donor providing tor the payment or certain lite
annuities out or the principal and income thereof. Under. the terms
or the contract only principal or the fund expended in payment or the
annuities is to be later restored out or income to the fund when the
annuities no longer absorb the entire income. After restoration or
the principal to the original sum or $30,000.00 the income from the
f'Und is to be used for the benefit or the residents or the Covina Ho•e.

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
1 C• N. FLINT TRUST FUND

EXHIBIT K

The principal or th~ Pund consists or girts from c. N. Flint. The
income from the fund has been designated by the trustees tor the use
or the Decoto Home .
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

JUNE 30 I

1961

CA.SH IN SAVINGS BAllK ACCOUNT

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

JUHB 30, 1961

INVESTMENTS (at book value) - Sched':14e 1:
BOnds (approxiiDate market value

$125,554.37)

•

BAlllt ACCOUNT - OVERDRAFT

INVESTMENTS at book value - Schedule 1:
nds approximate market value

Preferred stock (ap~roximate market
value $159,625.00J
Common stock (approximate m!ll'ket value

$67,187.50)

$4,471.87)

$5,000.00

$7.700.00)

7,526.26

.co-on stock (approximate market value

(100,89)

Total Securities

164,349.29
23,743.07

Total Securities ~a~§roximate
market value J3_2__66.t!7)

319,563.99

TOTAL ASSETS

$321,354.83

12,526,26
FUND BALANCE

$12,425.37

TOTAL ASSETS

BALAHCE, JUNE 30, 1960
FUND BALANCE

$13,454.94
1,029.51

Excess or annuities over revenue

$12,425.37

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1961 - Exhibit D

STATEMENT OF ANNUITIES PAID AND
REVENUE RECEIVED

EXCESS OF ANNUITIES OVER REVENUE

~:

1961

• 1,350.00
•

BALAHCE, JUHE 30, 1961 - Exhibit D

Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
REVENtJ'E TRANSFERRED TO DECOTO SPECIAL

RESERW - Schedule 3

121.43
125.00
74.oo

11,139.31
338,950.6o

Purchase or equipment and t'urniture
for Decoto Home hospital

STATEMENT OF RBVENUE RECEIVED
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,

Annuities paid as required by the agreement
Revenue:
Interest on bank account
Interest on bonds
Dividends on stoclcs

$327,811.29

!!!!!: Gain on sale or securities

BALAHCE, JUNE 30, 1960
~:

$131,471.63

17.595.77
$321,354.83
YEAR ENDED JUKE 30,

$ 14,901.94

320.43
• 1,029.57

The accomp~ing notes are an integral part or this state•ent.

1961

$ 5,745.37
9,162.57

The accompanying notes are an integral part or this statemen .

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
LEONARD GROSS MEMORIAL FUND

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT L

The principal of thie Fund arieee froni girte made as a memorial to
Leonard Gross.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

361

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
STUDENi'S I LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

EXHIBIT M

The principal of this Fund arises !'rom gifts. The income of the J'Un4
is designated by the trustees for use for student loan and •cholar•hip
purposes,

JUNE 30 I 1961

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

JUNE 30, 1961

CASH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCOU!f.r
CASH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCOU.NT
FUND BALANCE

BALAJfCE, JUNE 30, 1961 - Exhibit D

9,843.19

TOTAL ASSETS

(Ito change took place in thiB tund during the
;Jear ended June

• 1,057.03

INVESTMENTS at book value - Schedule l:
Common s ock a,pprox1Jllate market value
$8,950,00)

$10,900.22

30, 1961)

FUND BALANCE

STATEMEMT OF REVENUE RECEIVED

YEAR EJIDED JUNE 30, 1961

Interest on bank account
REVENUE TRANS:FERRED TO GENERAL

ll'U1ID INCOME - Exhibit B

.. 21.84

-

$ 21.84

BALANCE, JUNE 30 I 1960

Add:

• 8,372.19

Revenue

2,528.03

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1961 - Exhibit D

STATBMEllT OF REVE!IUE RECEIVED
Revenue from investments:
Interest on bank account
Dividends on stocks
George F. Brigham and Laura c. Brigham
Scholarphip Fund income - Exhibit H
Total Revenue f'rom Investments

$10,900.22

!EAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1961

•

179.98
112.00

1,265.55
• 1,557,53

Gifts from individuals and organ1sat1oDB
Rep~ent of scholarship grant
TOTAL REVENUE

The accomp&JJ71ng notes are an integral part of this statement.

520.50
450.00

.. 2,528.03

The accompanying notes are an integral part or this stat-nt.

362

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT N

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
RESIDENTS' DEPOSITS

This Fund is composed of deposits made by and held in trust for the
residents of the Covina and Decoto Homes.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

363

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SCHEDULE l
Page 1

INVESTMENTS

JUNE 30, 1961

(Consolidated schedule of investments, other than
investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

JUNE 30, 1961

~

FACE VALUE
~

$ 7,429.33

CASH IN COMMERCIAL BANK ACCOUNTS

l,m.89

CASH IN SAVINGS BANK ACCOUNT
INVESTMENTS at book value - Schedule 1:
Preferred stock a~proximate market
value $18,400.00)
Common stock (approximate market value
$15,425.00)

$18,061,93

31,000
$43,221.:sp

TOTAL ASSETS

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
Interest on bank account
Dividends on stocks
Gain on sale of common stock
REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO DECOTO
SPECIAL RESERVE - Schedule 3

10,000
25,000
5,000
10,000
10,000

FUND BALANCE

BALANCE, JUKE 30, 1961 - Exhibit D

2,000
25,000
50,000
2,000
5,000

15,952.44
34,014.37

RESIDENTS' DEPOSITS:
Decoto home
Covina home

$ 10,000
25,000

60,ooo

$34,683.12
8,538.47

5,000
$43,221.59

4o,ooo
4o,ooo
50,000

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1961

23,000

123.79
1,180.75
1.135.50

50,000

$

8,ooo
50,000

$ 2,440,04

5,000
4,ooo
2,000
5,000
50,000

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement,

BOOK VALUE
Aluminum Company of America, 3-1/8',1:, 1964 $
Chesapeake a: Ohio R.R. Bq!Upment Trust,
3-7/8',I:, 1962
Contra Costa County Road, 2-1/l!il', 1974
Cerro de Pasco Corporation, 5.~
Douglas Aircraft Co,, ~. 1977
General Motors Acceptll!}ce Corporation,
~. 1979
General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
3-7/8',I:, 1961
International Mineral a: Chemical Corporation,
3,65:', l'J77
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, 3-1/2:',
1969
JUssouri Pacific R.R. Equipment Trust,
3-1/2:', 1963
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, J:r;, 1970
Pacific Gas. and Electric Company, -;y/,, 1974
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company,
4-5~. 1990
Pacific· Telephone and Telegraph Company,
4-5/8',I:, 1990
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company,
4-5/8',I:, 1990
Philadelphia Electric Co,, 4-3/8'.I;, 1986
Potomac Electric Power Co., 5.25~, 1994
Public Service Electric a: Gas Company,
4-7/B:r;, 1987
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co.,
• 4-5/B:r;, 1993
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co. ;
4-5/8',I:, 1993
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co.,
4-5/8',I:, 1993
Southern California Edison Company,
4-7/B:r;, 1982
Southern California Edison Company, -;y/,,
1965
Southern Cali.fornia Gas Company,· 3-1/l!il', 1970
Southern California Gas Company, 3-1/l!il', 1970
Southern Counties Gas Co., 3:r;, 1971
Southern Paci.fie Company Equipment Trust,
3-5/8',I:, 1961

9,765,70
24,933.96
1,899.84
27,038.79
44,480.97
1,856.05
4,997.78
32,204.48
9,281.25
25,000.00
5,036.84-B
8,639.19
10,241.12-F
61,447.61
5,120.57-L
4o,ooo.oo
4o,941.8J-F
50,447.45
23,279.l~-F

50,606.83
8,096.93-L
50,459.74
4,758.06
4,084.65-B
1,840.99
5,049.91-B
49,985.69

$ 601,495,38

364

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 2

INVESTMENTS

JUNE 30,

1961

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

~

Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
Texas Power and Light Co., 4.5~, 1988
Texas Power and Light Co., 4.5:', 1988
Texas Power and Light Co., 4.5~~1988
, 1962
The Twelve Federal Land Ba.nice,
u. s. Treasur;y Bonds, 3-1/~, 1990
u. s. Treasur;y Bonds, 3-1/~, 1990
u. s. Treasur;y Bonds, 3-1/~, 1990
u. S. Treasur;y Bonds, 3-1/~, 1998
u. S. Treasur;y Bonds, 3-1/4~, 1983-78
u. S. Treasur;y Bonds, 2-i/~, 1970-65
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-i/~, 1970-65
u. s. Treasury Bonda, 2-1/~, 1970-65
U. S. Treasury Bonda, 2-1/~, 1971-66
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/~. 1972-67
U. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/~, 1972-67
U. s. Treaeur;y Bonds, 2-1/~, 1972-67
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/~. 1972-67
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-3/~. 1961
U. s. Treasury Bonde, ~. 1964
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3 -5~. 1967
Virginian Ra1lwa;y Company, ffl,, 2008
Total Bonde

•

BOOK VALUE

~

601,495.38
5,099.51
12,109.94-F

100

52,~.50

16,1 .68-L
15,000.00
11,501.77-F
195,138.32
14,377.39-L
10,000.00-P
5,921.12
10,465.61-B
9,032.71-F
5,000.00-v
2,922.12
24,365.11-F
5,393.08
311,945.13
6,218.51
3,996.48
6,400. 3
1,000.00
14,090.37

$1 1 34o 1 096.46

PREFERRED STOCK
~

100
100
100
100
2,100
200

100
100
200

75
100
100

JUNE ~0 1 1961
PREFERRED STOCK

FACE VALUE

200

SCHEDULE 1
Page 3

INVESTMENTS

~

$ 5,000
12,000
52,000
16,000
15,000
12,000
191,000
15,000
10,000
6,000
10,500
9,000
5,000
3,000
25,000
5,500
320,000
6,500
4,000
6,500
1,000
12,700

365

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Allied Stores Corporation, ~
Aluminum Company or America, r-75
Aluminum Company of America, 3.75
American Metal Climax, Inc., -1/2"
American Metal Cl1.max, Inc., 4-1/~
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Rail'WllT
Company, ~
Atlantic Refining Company, 3-3/111', B
Atlantic Refining Company, 3-3/lll', B
Bristol-Myers Co.,
Canada Dry Corp., 4-1
Canada Dry Corp., 4-1/lll'
Champion Paper and Fibre Co., :4.50
Champion Paper and Fibre Co., 4.50

$

21,041.15
16, 790.00-P
9,971.93
8,950.1§
16,498.7 -11'
7,528.60
9,846.Bo-P
10,677.56

3-yi)f

Forward

16,286,20
8,661.26-P
9,839.00
9,896.85-P
·10,597.55

•

156,585.83

BOOK VAWE
~

50
100
200
200
300
200
150
200
200

100
200
200
100
200
100
100
100
50
4oo
200
882
175
100
441
100
100
100
600
100
520
300
125
300
267
100
600
50

Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Inc., $5.00
Consumers Power Company, $4.50
Crown Zellerbach Corporation, :4.20
Crown Zellerbach Corporation, 4.20
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Companf, $4.50
Duquesne Light Company, $2.10
General Motors Corporation, $3.75
General Telephone Company of Califol'llia,
4-1/~

•

V. T. Grant Collpany, 3-3/lll'
Oult States Utilities Company, $4.20
Kaiser Aluminum and Cheaical, 4.1~
May Department Stores Co., p.4o
May Department Stores Co., 3.4o
National Gypsum Co., $4.50
J. J. Newberry Co., 3-3/111'
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, 3.6<>:'
Northern States Power Company ot Minnesota,
$3.60
Northern States Power CollJ)any or Minnesota,
$4.10
Ohio Edison Company, 4.4ol'
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Co., Ill'
Pacific Gas and Electric Compan;y, ~
Pacific Gas and Electric Company,
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5-1/~
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5:C,
Red. 1st
.P.,,.cific Gas and Electric Company, 5:'.
Red. lst A
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.~
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.
Pacific Lighting Corporation, $4.50
Public Service Co. or Indiana, .4.1~
Public Service Electric & Oas Company, :1.4o
Public Service Electric & ·aas Company, l.4o
San Diego Oas & Electric Compan;y, 5.6<>:'
Southern California Edison Company, 4.3~
Southern California Edison Company, 4.3~
Southern California Edison Company, 4.3~
Southern California Edison Compan;y, 4.3~
Southern California Edison Compan;y, 4.2~
Sperry Rand Corporation, $4.50
~

156,585.83
l0,208.85
4,~~·00
.60-F
9,
19,693.60
24,148.85
15,504.51
20,094.00
2,625.00
19,791.70
i9,521.5a
io,326.7
14,441. 70-F
16,229.98
10,420.38
16,890.00-P
9,045.Bo
7,4o9.73
1~;144.60

4,425.00
7,887.08
5,29g.69-F
27,75 ·~
5,915.
2,653.13
13,~.88

.68-F
8,
10,000.00
8,922.88-R
15,~45.oB

2, 29.60-F
16,212.95
6,84o.75
l,011.B9-B
6,969. 3-F
6,026.19
2,178.50-R
15,3~0.00

4 1 2 4.00-P

$ 569,aao.ao

366

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
l'age 4
JUNE 30, 1961

INVESTMENTS

MASOHIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS

PREFERRED STOCK

~

50
9

200

100
800

200
700
1,000
300
100
100

Sperry Rand Corporation, 14.50
Sperry Rand Corporation, 4.lo
State Guaranty Corporation, 1.30
Stauffer Chemical Co., 3-~'i!!f,
Sunray Mid-Continent 011 ompany, 4-1/'i!!f,, A
Sunray Mid-Continent 011 Company, 4-1/2:', A
Tidewater Oil Company, 11.20
Tidewater Oil Company, 1.20
Union Pacific Railroad Company, ~
Union Pacific Railroad Company, ~
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, 3.Bo;:, B
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, 3.Bo;:, B
Total Preferred Stock
COMMON STOCK

500
400
100
500
100

~6

700
100
160
100
200
500
200

100

200

3~
100
7~

500
50
5
100
32

SCllBDULK 1
Page 5

JUNE ;30z 12§1
COMMON STOCK

~

200

367

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

•

569,880.80
20,085.20
4,284.00-R

•
•

•

~
~

~66.75

100
266
75
425

20,926.~

200

16, 95.65-F
2 1 364.19-F

Abbott Laboratories
Aluminum Company of America
Alumi1U11D CompallH" or America
Amerada Petroleum Corporation
American Can Company
American Cyanamid Company
American Telephone and Telegraph Company
Associates Investment Company
Bank or America, N.T. & S.A.
Bethlehem Steel Corporation
Borg-Warner Corporation
Canadian Pacific Railroad Company
Carrier Corporation
Champion Paper and Fibre CollJ>any
Cpemical Bank New York Trust Company
Commercial Credit Company
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.
Continental Baking Company
Continental Can Co., Inc.
Covina Irrigating Co.
Crocker-Anglo National Banlc
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
niquesne Light Company
B. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company
Eastman Kodslc Company
Bl Paso Natural Gas COllPan:r
~

BOO!t VAIDE

5,230. -P
19,719.28
10,381.30
2,676.55-R
9,020.78-P
9,946.90

691 1 3"79.21

27.947.w
29,812.
7,435. 4-L
36,774.31
4,202.31
l,ll5.6i
18,~06.9

39, 12.50
5,469.43
6,14o.OO
4,241.00
5,366.00
19,944.oo
5,816,76
6,620.58
6,337.50
2,196.00
13,025.90-L
3,725.94
32.50
11,494.34
27 ,597 .4o
1,287,50
925,00

11,~~:~

298,208.74

100
500
4oo
300
1,000
100
200

300
100
100
100
3lio
200

100
4oo
100
200

100
100
44

24
100
100
200
100
100
125

21
1,629
28-1/2
1,000
100
- 330
2,420
100

p~
100
253

Fen.steel Metallurgical
General Electric Company
General Mills, Inc.
General Motors Corporation
General Motors Corporation
General Motors Corporation
General Tire and Rubber Company
B. F. Goodrich Company
Gulf Oil Corporation
International Paper Company
International Paper Company
P. Lorillard Company
Jlinneapolis-Hone;ywell Regulator
Montana-Dakota Utilities Co.
Montgomery Ward & Co. , Inc .
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Oil Company
Owens-Illinois Glass CollJ>any
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Pacific Lighting Corporation
Parke, Davis & Co.
Charles Pfizer & Co., Inc.
Phillips Petroleum Company
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company
Public Service Electric & Gae Company
Ramona Savings and Loan Association
River Farms of California
San Dimas Co.
Santa Rosa Savings and Loan Association
Schering Corp.
Security First National Bank
Security First National Banlc
Socoey Mobil 011 Company
Southern California Edison Company
Southern Pacific Company
Southern Pacific Company
Southern Realty Co,
~

•

BOOK VALUE
298,208.74
5,519.48
22,648.50
2,062.~

19,049.

8,~31.26-R

4, S0.69-S
28,676.46
21,053.61
10,838.39
32,568.09
3,611.88-L
9,057.88
44,6ll.45
2,946.81
3,863.13
7,015.32-F
25, 171.53
7 ,577 .25-B
3,763.63-F
15,015.81
3,787.75-L
4,526.26-W
,341.50
9,4o0.85
2,952.19
1,170.00
4,755.06
3,348.81
ll,689.60
7,221.18-R
7,221.18
}',~99.4o-B

16, oo.oo
48,8~.oo

2,0 .oo
145,000.00
5,771.23
4,533.54-F
13~,650.00

,843.00
14,009.38
2,481.25
2,481.90-L
399.00-P

$1,024,604.95

368

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SCHEDULE l
Page 6

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCllEDULB 2

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

JUNE 30, 1961

INVESTMENTS

369

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Page 1

INVESTMENTS

JUNE 30, 1961

FACE VALUE

BOOK VAWB

COMMON STOCK
BOOK VALUE
~

200
25
300
200

26
100

~

809
330
200
100

NOTE:

$1,024, 604, 95
9,070,44
1, 103.13
7,431.84
4,962.50-S
1,904.19
5,619,58
3,923.50
14,149.50
18,84o.72
8,031,58-B'
6,068.00
7,275.00

Standard Oil Company (New Jere8J")
standard Oil Company (Calirorn1a)
Tennessee Gae Tre.nsmieeion Company
Tennessee Gae Tre.nsmieeion Company
Texaco, Inc.
T1Jlllcen Hollar Bearing Company
United States Gypsum Co.
United Gae Corporation
Yelle Fargo Bank Allerican Trust Company
Yelle Fargo Bank American Trust Company
Western Bancorporation
P. V. Woolworth Co.
Eight lots or securities or undetermined
value received ae gifts, carried at a
nominal value or $1.00 per lot

8 00

Total Common Stock

1,112,992,93

TOTAL INVESTMENTS

$3,144,468.60

The above schedule includes all the securities or
the Masonic Homes or California, except those in
the Permanent Endowment Fund which are shown on
Schedule 2. Securities are coded for the
following t'unds:

B - George P. Brigham and Laura B. Brigh8111
Scholarship Pund - Exhibit H
F - C. N. Flint Trust Fund - Exhibit K
L -.John and Lena I.uckenbach Pund Exhibit G
p - George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund - Exhibit I
R - Residents• Deposits - Exhibit N
s - Students• Loan and Scholarship Fund
Exhibit M
w - Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuit7
Fund - Exhibit J
(Uncoded) - General Fund - Exhibit A
TOTAL INVESTMENTS (ae ·above)

•

36,685.05
319,563.99
74,084.64
10,000.00
34,014.37
9,843.19
12,526,26
2,647,751.10

$3,144,468.60

•

American Telephone and Telegraph Compar)1',
•
5:i, 1983
Celotex Corporation, 4-1~, 1976
Central Illinois Public Service Company,
.
4-3/11;', 1989
25,000 Cerro de Pasco Corporationt 5-1/~, 1979
25,000 Champion Paper and Fibre, ~-1/~, 1984
25,000 Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Equipment Trust,
3-7/8:i, 1962
25,000 Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Equipment Trust,
2-1/~, 1961
100,000 Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co.,
5-1/11;', 1996
50,000 Chicago, Burlington & Quinc7 R.R.
Equipment Trust, 2-5/8.', 1965
50,000 Chicago, Rock Island & Paciric R.R.
Equipment Trust, Series N, 2-3/., 1962
13,000 Consolidated Edison Company or Hew York,
5-1/•. 1989
25,000 Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R.R.
Equipment Trust,.~, 1962
100,000 Federal National Mortgage Association,
5-1/11.', 1972
50,000 Florida Power and Light Company, 5.~ 1 1989
50,000 Great Northern Ry., Second Equipment Truat,
2-5~. 1968
100,000 Gulf States Utilities, 5-1/llJ', 1989
100,000 Gulf States Utilities, 4-3/~, 1989
50,000 Illinois Central R.R. Equipment Trust,
2-3/llJ', 1962
50,000 .Illinois Central R.R:" Equipment Trust,
2-5/11.', 1964
100,000 Indiana & Michigan Electric Co., 4-3/llJ', 1988
67,000 International Minerals & Chemical Corp.,
3.65l'. 1977
50,000 Jert<e7 Central Power & Light Company, 5)C,
1987
50,000 Louisville & Nashville R.R. Equipment
Trust, 2-7/8:'. 1962
100,000 Louisville Gae and Electric Company,
4-719.', 1987
100,000 Mi~higan Bell Telephone Company, 4. 75", 1992
25,000 Minneapolis, St. Paul & s. St. Marie R.R.
Equipment Trust, 3-119.', 1962

100,000

25,000
100,000

107,618.7~

24,205.38

101,478.12
25,302.l!O
25,913.73
24,934.0l
24,961.82
100,960.56
49,757.04
49,917.19
13,189.41
24,984.94
99,889.76
50,727 .13
49,"63.27
102,482.43
102,230.SO
49,935.90
49,737.23
102,215.09

10,ooa.oo
50,218.llO
49,977,17
101,036,50
105,773.ao
24,992.21

• l,sS1,9ll.OS

370

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

~

BOOK VALUE

SHARES

$ 1,581,911.08

600
300
200
2,900

Missouri Pacific R.R. Equipment Trust,
25,000,00
Series C,.3~1/2%, 1963
86,000 Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, 4-7/f!if,,
86,64o.54
1987
24,999.68
25,000 Northern Pacific Ry. Equipment Trust, 3%, 1963
50,000 Oakdale Irrigation District Tri Dam, 3.05%,
50,114.38
2004
35,000.00
35,000 Philadelphia Electric Co., 4.375%,.1986
50,000 Pittsburgh & lake Erie R.R. Equipment Trust,
49,953.08
3-7/f!!f,, 1962
10,236.64
10,000 Potomac Electric Power Company, 5-1/41', 1994
50,000 Public Service Electric & Gas Company,
50,448.95
4-7/f!!f,, 1987
50,000 Seaboard Airline R.R. Equipment Trust,
49,924.05
2-7/~, 1962
49,877.75
50,000 Sinclair Oil Corporation, 4-3/f!!/,, 1986
South
San
Joaquin
Irrigation
District
50,000
50,114.38
Revenue, 3.05~, 2004
100,000 Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph
101,213.36
Company, 4-5/8~, 1993·
·
50,000 Southern California Edison Company, 4-7/f!if,,
50,459.74
1982
100,000 -Southern Pacific Company, Equipment Trust,
99,209.87
2-5/f!if,, 1965
.
20,000 Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, 4-3/41',
20,J53.75
1992
25,000 Texas and Pacific Railway Equipment Trust,
24,942.29
2-1/8~, 1962
20,183.15
20,000 Texas Power and Light Co., "4.5%, 1988
165,795.37
165,000 u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/~, 1998
1,087,198.53
1,055,000 u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 1990
10,001.53
10,000 U. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/4~, 1961
100,058.87
100,000 u. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/~, 1961
711,287.27
U.
S.
Treasury
Bonds,
2-1/2%,
1972-67
730,000
4,927.50
5,000 u. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/~, 1972-67
99,488.03
100,000 U. s. Treasury Notes, 3.75%
12,049.02
12,000 U. s. Treasury Notes, 1.5~
19,193.69
17,300 Virginian Railway Company, 6%, 2008
23,869.73
25,000 Wheeling Steel Corporation, 3-3/41'
25,000

Total Bonds

INVESTMENTS

SCHEDULE 2
Page 3
JUNE 30, 1961

PREFERRED STOCK

FACE VALUE

$

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page 2
JUNE 30, 1961

INVESTMENTS

371

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$ 4,614,252.23

700

~

34o
200
250
800
200
200
300
4oo
500
800
300
800
510
390
200
600
500
200

2,4oo
100

6oo

96

558
300
114
4oo
1,200
1,300
1,500
1,200
2,300
600
200
1,300

BOOK VALUE
Allied Stores Corporation, Ill'
$
Aluminum Company of America, $3.75
American Metal Climax, Inc., 4-1/2%
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway
Company, 5%
Atlantic Refining Company, 3-3/41'
Bristol-Myers Co., 3-3/4l'
Canada Dry Corp., $4.25
Champion Paper and Fibre Company, $4.50
Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Inc., 5~
Consumers Power Company, 4-1/2%
Continental Baking Company, $5.50
Crown Zellerbach Corporation, $4.20
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, $4.50
Duquesne Lig!lt Company, $2.10
General Motors Corporation, $3.75
General Motors Corporation, ':fl,'
W. T. Grant Company, 3-3/4l'
Gulf States Utilities Co., $4.20
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/0,1;
May Department Stores Company, 3.4o%
National Gypsum Co., $4.50 .
J. J. Newberry Company, 3-3/4~
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, 3.60%
Northern States Power Co. of Minnesota, $4.10
Northern States Power Co. of Minnesota, $3.60
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Co., 4%
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5%,
Red. 1st, A
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5%,
• Red. 1st
Pacific Gas and Electric Compan;y, 5-1/2%
Pacific Gas and Electric Compr., ~
Pacific Lighting Corporation,
.36
Pacific Lighting Corporation, • 4o%
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.50%
Public Service Company of Indiana, 4.16%
Public Service Electric & Gas Company, $1.4o
San Diego Gas and Electric Company, 5.6()%
Southern California Edison Company, 4.24l'
Southern California Edison Company, 4.32%
Sperry Rand Corporation, $4.50
Stauffer Chemical Company, 3-1/2%
Sunray Mid-Continent 011 Company, 4-1/2%

47,471.30
27' 213.45
21,195.30
29,228.95
59,901.38
27,747.10
43,030.42
33,167.34
20,903.80
24,221.57
83,753.17
19,689.60
24,148.85
15,577.06
38,373.30
52,271.29
66,529.65
29,920.54
78,710.31
39,355.84
38,64o.05
17,891.00
48,631.00
45,311.48
15,071.48
44,118.83
2,6lK>.56
15,843.38
2,430.00
15,855.75
28,647.60
10,020.83
35,716.53
30,838.32
4o,44o.51
31,452.14
30,660.00
51,009.47
56,013.03
17,465.78
33,050.09

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Pegs 4

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

.JUHB 30 I

INVESTMENTS

1961

Forward

1,000
3,000

633
300

Sunray Mid-Con tinent 011 Company,

5-1/~

Tidewate r Oil CompllJl1', $1.20
Toledo Edison CompllJl1', $4.25
Union Pacific Railroad Comp~, 111'
United States Steel Corp., 7~
Weetingh ouse Electric Corporat ion, 3.~

• 1,394,15 8,05
32,508,7 4
53,185.• 27
84,971i.50
30,194.83
90,589.22
29,840.71

Total Preferred Stock

1,715,45 1.32

COMMON STOCK

1,700

6o6.
1,600
1,350
2,000
800

~

·1,000

33

2.~

500
l,000

662

713

l,178

~29

286
1,900
1,300
l,875

~

i.~

753

1,200

300

1,000

700

900

l,249
l,000

1961

COMMON STOCK
BOOK VALUE

BOOIC VALUE

2,000

SCHEDULE 2
Page 5
.JUHB 30 p

IIWESTMENTS

PREFERRED STOCK

1,000

373

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

372

Alleghen y Power S7stem, Inc.
Allied Chemical Corp.
American Can Company
American C)'anamid Company
Atchison , Topeka & Santa Pe Ra11W81' Company
Atlantic Refining Company
Bank or America, H.T. & S.A.
Bankers Truet Company or Hew York
Bendix Corporat ion
Bethlehem Steel Corp.
Borg-War ner Corporat ion
Canadian Pacific Ra11W81' Company
Carrier Corporat ion
Champion Paper and Fibre Company
Chase Manhatta n Bank
Chemical Bank Hew York Trust CompllJl1'
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Consolid ated Edison Company of Hew York, Inc.
Continen tal Baking Co.
Continen tal Can Co., Inc.
Continen tal Insuranc e CompllJl1'
Crocker-A nglo National Bank
Crown Zellerba ch Corporat ion
Crum and Poreter
Dow Chemical Company
Duquesne Light COlllJ>any
E. I. du Pont de Hemoure & Company
El Paso Natural Gas Company
Faneteel Metallur gical
Fireman' s Fund Insuranc e CompllJl1'
Piret National City Bank or Hew York
General Dyna.mice Corporat ion
~

37 ,404.48
23,507.17
67,519,5 8
32,532.2 6
45,956.78
28,269.03
40,434.07
23,952.96
66,268.55
1,604.63
38,244,89
75,182.4 8
19,821.1 5
29,083.80
23,432.45
34,092.36
20,483.95
15,954.4 3
10,829.9 9
72,213,7 1
58,404.77
27,559.48
22,077.92
103,999.36
51,496.26
16,686.7 8
62,565.8 3
27 ,664~87
38,723.93
46,459.58
66,097.2 9
58,734.3 6

Forward

820
1,000
638
1,783
600
900

1,038
426
900
1,000

233
700
900

2,262
1,000
l,~g

200

l,Boo

1,900

614

Boo

300
1,500
1,000
1,877

l,~~
609
533
900

1,800
900
Boo

Boo

745
788

900

665
1,100
1,300
545
1,200

General Electric CompllJl1'
General Mills Incorpor ated
General Motors Corporat ion
General Public Utilitie s Corp.
B. P. Goodrich Company
Gulf Oil Corporat ion
Home Insurance Company of Hew York
Honolulu Oil Corporat ion
Ingereol l Rand Co.
Ineuranc e CompllJl1' of Horth America
Internat ional Bue1nese Machines Corporat ion
Internat ional Harveste r Co.
Internat ional Paper Co.
Irving Trust Company
Kansas City Southern Ra1lw81' Company
P. Lorillar d Company
Manufact urers Trust Company
M1~apolie-Hone71f9ll Regulato r
Montena Dakota Utilitiee Co.
Montgomery Ward & Co., Inc.
Morgan Ouaranty Trust Co, of Hew York
.
National Lead Co.
National Shawmut Bank of Boston
Hew York Chicago and St. Louis Railroad
Northern Natural Gas Company
Northern States Power or Minnesot a
Ohio 011 Co.
Owens-I llinois Olaes Company
facific Gae and Electric Company
Pacific Lighting Corporat ion
Parke, Davie & Co.
Pennsalt Chemical s Corp.
Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc.
Phillips Petroleum Company
Pittsburg h Plate Glaee Co,
Public Service Electric & Gas Company
San Diego Gas & Electric CompllJl1'
Schering Corp,
Security -First National Bank
Shell 011 Company
Socony Mobil 011 Company, Inc.
Southern Californ ia Edison Company
Southern Pacific CompllJl1'
~

$ 1,287,25 9.15
22,284.06
29,643.42
30,075.8 9
20,972,27
32,195.9 3
32,788.27
39,263.1 9
18,388.00
76,577.1 9
53,205.0 0
33,431.2 1
31,217.6 4
32,534.5 2
56,937.0 1
69,408.96
58,906.0 8
13,939.3 1
31,309.2 0
54,328.37
72,914.2 6
36,931.0 8
74,085,6 8
ll,855.13
56,079.5 9
21,216.27
22,997.5 9
56,244.1 2
38,048.6 0
29,741.13
27,413.6 9
42,723.69
37 ,154.12
29,995,1 3
36,233.9 3
57,894.5 3
18,656.9 9
16,502.6 6
52,132.2 5
28,234.6 5
26,036.85
63,158.9 6
18,965.9 1
29,501.8 9
• 2,933,38 3.37

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANEflr ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

BOOK VALUE
~

200

200
2,000

1,500

~
1,~

SCHKI>tJL'B ~
Page

JUllE 30,

19§1

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

COMMON STOCK

1,060
729
900
2,760
1,100
1,050

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Page 6

JUNB 30 I 1961

INVESTMENTS

4
1,241
1,000
819
854
1,000

375

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

374

Southern Realty Company
Standard 011 Company ~California)
Standard Oil Company Indiana)
Standard Oil Company New Jersey)
Standard 011 Company Ohio)
Sunray Mid-Continent Oil Co.
Sunshine Biecuite, Inc.
Tenneeeee Gae Tranemiseion COllPIUl1'
Texaco, Inc.
T1mken Roller Bearing Co.
Title Ineurance a: Trust CcmpllJl1'
Transamerica Corporation
Union Bank, Loe Angeles
Union Carbide Corp.
Union Pacific Railroad Compal'!1'
United Gae Corporation
United States Gypsum COllPIUl1'
Vaehington Water Power COllPIUl1'
·Western Bancorporation
Weetinghouee Electric Corporation
Six lots of etock of undetel'lllined value
received as gifts, carried at a nolllinal
value of $1.00 per lot
Total Common Stock
TOTAL INVESTMElfl'S - Exhibit P

$ 2,933,383,37
11.00
61,626,93
49,558.31
40,969.54
33,197.62
27,089,59
14,559,88
26,303.39
59,688.61
50,776,38
37,500.00
28,135.10
49,095,85
21,839.99
56,178.48
53,368,Bo
54,899.65
16,534,88
18,316.37
58,208.58
6.oo
3,691,248.32

This reserve ie credited with amounts to be used for the general
purposes of the Decoto and Covina homes,
$604,216.55
Balance, June 30, 1960
Bequeete allocated to
• 67,839,31
Reserve by Trustees
Net income f'rom real
estate received f'rom
bequeete allocated to
1,708.30
Reserve by Trustees
To increase the carrying
value of 1,000 shares
of Santa Roea Savings
and Loan Aeeociation
f'rom $25,000.00, the
value it wae ~reviouely
recorded, to '145,000.00,
the present book value or
120,000,00
ea1d etock
189,547.61
Lese: Charges to Reserve;
--xcrd1t1one to Decoto Home
Additions to Covina Home
Replacements to Decoto Home
Replacements to Covina Home
15.416.46
174,131,15
Increase in Reserve
trr8.347.IO
Balance, June 30, 1961

$10,020,951.87

The accompanyi11g notes are an integral part or this statnent.

376

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA
RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

SCHEDULE

Page

JUNE 30 I

i

1961

Thia reserve is credited with amounts specified t'or the use ot'
the Covina Home.

Charges to Reserve:
Le11B1
484.28
•
--x<Jditions to Covina Home
14,053.38
Replacements to Covina Home
2,326.23
Swllmer camp expense
Jll1scellaneous expenditures
t'or special benefit ot'
4,671.36
residents
Amount transferred to
3,104.48
Entertainment Reserve
Transfers authorized by the
Board ot' Trustees to reimburse the general t'und
t'or the following Covina
operating expenses ot' the
current year:
Hospital and medical
expense
Parm and grounds expense

MASONIC HCJIES OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULB ~

Page

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

JUNE 30 I 1961

DECOTO SPECIAL RESERVB

COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE

Balance 1 June 30, 1960
Bequests allocated to Reserve
by Trustees
Net income t'rom real estate received by bequests, allocated
to Reserve by Trustees
Contributions t'or Home

377

This reserve is credited with amounts specified t'or the uae or
the Decoto Home.
Balance, June 30, 1960
Bequests allocated to Reserve
by Trustees
Net income t'rom real estate received by bequests allocated
to Reserve by Trustees
C. N. Flint Trust Fund income Bxhibit K
George M. and Florence Q, Perine
Endowment Fund income Exhibit I
Residents• Deposits income Exhibit N
Contributions t'or Home

8,325.67
4,643.70
510,030,55

Less1 Charges to Reserve:
--x<Jd1tions to Decoto Home
• 27,884,20
Replacements to Decoto Home
7,661.10
Amount transferred to Hew
Hospital Reserve
1,190.16
Amount transferred to
Bntertairaent Reserve
3,104.46
Increase in Reserve

• 63,123,o6
12,S07.15
14,907.94
828.30
2,44o.04
12.00
94,118.49

39,839,92

Balance, June 30, 1961

11.214.58

Increase in Reserve

438,815,97

Balance, June 30 1 1961

~05,397.07

•211,301.39

This reserve, is credited with amounts transferred t'rom the
Unappropriated Reserve to provide t'or f'uneral expenses t'or the
residents ot' the Decoto Home.
Balance, June 30, 1960
Amount transferred t'rom
Uns.ppropriated Reserve
Funeral expense
~:
Increase in Reserve
Balance, june 30, 1961

The accompanying notes are an integral part ot' this statement.

54,278.57

• 70,600.00
• 29,614.27
9,464.27
20,150.00
.. 90,750.00

The accompanying notes are an integral part ot' this statement,

PROCEED INGS OF THE

378

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE
Page

n

JUNE 30, 1961

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
transferre d
This reserve is credited with contributi ons and amounts
esesr.ve to be used
Reserve and Covina SpetchiaelHRome
from Decoto Specialent
of the residents 0 r
for the entertainm
$ 1,486.72
Balance, June 30, 1960
$ 10,422.51
Contributi ons
Covina
from
d
Amount transferre
3,104.48
Am~E;~i~~~ii~~~~d from Decoto
~,104.46
Special Reserve
l ,631.45
Less1 Entertainm eht expense at
13,118.17
~coto and Covina Homes
3,:;13.28
Increase in Reserve

$ 5,000.00

llal.ance, June 30, 1961

UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE
assigned by residents or the
This reserve is credited with amounts proceeds
from pensions, life
Decoto Home on admission and includes estate. The
reserve is to be
real
of
sale
and
insurance policies,
Home.
Decoto
the
used· for the benefit of the residents at
$349,368.4 7
1960
30,
June
Balance,
Assets assigned by residents of
admission
on
Home
the Decato
including proceeds from sale
of real estate and from life
$253,794.3 4
insurance policies
Pe~~i~g: ~~~~e~0 ~~ residents
1I8,224.16
0,589.74
Deposits of deceased residents
Income from real estate assigned
by residents on admission
To increase the carrying value
of 21 shares of the capital
stock or Barnona Saving~ and
Loan Associatio n from ,1.00,
the value at which it was
previously recorded, to
,16,800.00 , the present book
value of said stock
Charges to Reserve:
transferre d to New
Hospital Reserve
Monthly grants to residents
Amount transferre d to
Funeral Reserve
Real estate and insurance
expense
Increase in Reserve

379

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

SCHEDULE 3

Page 5

JUNE 30, 1961

NEW HOSPITAL RESERVE
This reserve is credited with amounts transferre d from the
bequests
Unappropr iated Reserve, Decoto Special Reserve, and with ng
the
and contributi ons, to provide for the costs or constructi
new hospital building at the Decoto Home.
Balance, June 30, 1960
Amount transferre d from
Unappropr iated Reserve
Amount transferre d from
Decoto .Special Reserve
Bequests
Contributi ons
Less: Charges to Reserve:
---ii&lance of constructi on
cost of new hospital
at Decoto Home
$14o,835.4 o
Legal services
355.60
Motion pictures or ground
breaking, cornerston e
and dedication ceremonie s
2,18o.oo
Decrease in Reserve
Balance, June 30, 1961

• Bo,222.53
$ 60,000.00
1,190.16
1,052.00
906.31

143.371.00

Lese:

~ount

Balance, June 30, 1961

$60,000.00
52,008.00
29,614.27
3,189.99 144,812.26

315,792.59
$§95,161.0 6

The accompany ing notes are an integral part or this statement .

Bo,222.53

$,__-o_-_ _

The accompany ing notes are an integral part of this state111ent.

380

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

SCHEDULE 4

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

FISCAL YEARS ENDED

JUNE 30,
1961

DECOTO OPERATING EXPENSE:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
General, plant 1 buildings,
and transpor•at ion
Administrat ive
MET OPERATING EXPENSE -

JUKE 3o.

19§1 JJID 19§0

JUNE 30,

INCREASE
(DECREASE)

1960

•g6a:~t:§i
*IJ:~:~~r:~~ *1a¥:~
25,219.oit .... fr,106_23
1~1 :~~
B,

•

lai:i¥~:1s ~:~~:1j 1¥:~:~

Eiliiblt B

$804,901.16 $624,959.67 $179.948.09

COVINA OPERATING EXPENSE:
Residents• maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
General, plant 1 buildings,
and transpor•at ion
Administrat l.ve
1€1' OPERATING EXPENSE Eih!bit B

$221,041.92 $258,169.89 ••( 37,127,91 )

RELIEF OUTSIDE OF MASONIC
HOMES - EXhibit B

• 25,875.4o •• 27· 98 2.20 ••

2 106 80
I

•

AD~~~;IVE AND GENERAL EXPENSE:.$ 31,781.63 $ 34,987.58 $ (3,205,95)
Grand Lodge - Secretarial
and other services
Office
salaries
Field investigatio
ns
Pensions for retired employees
Taxes on payrolls
Auditing services
Trustees• expenses
Ex9ense ·of appraising homes
Of~~~~e_;appl1es and printing
Taxes on homes
Invest~ent counsel tees
Legal ees
k
Securities safe eep i ng
Real estate expense
Telephone
Rei.mbudrsement of Endowment
Gr~ r.:;a~:n~~~P to Decoto
Masonic Homes Executives'
Association Conference expense
Miscellaneo us expense
TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE
AND GENERAL EXPENSE -

Elthib1t B

RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN -

!··\lg

000 00
204'ago'oo
1 ~·•
• 41

1 '·a~ • oo
0
3,~a9'02
3,
•
1 ~ ~ 4~ 63

:~4Ji:~
"

•

4,500.oo
oo
1 ' 200
15.66
475 •• 13
15 o96.62
i:572. 75
925.71

20 000 oo

'i

4•m·oo
11 ••
•
4
134 1• ~:
o
1
2 6 '59
•
•

~:~~R:~g

4 oo oo
·~ 1 : 1 6

1,200.00
1,329.11
4"" ne
"""""'
11,551.69
1,626.24
795 33
i:a2'7:1l
_ ~ ~

(801.16)
(1,313.45)
38.17

3,~~:~~)

c1 t'9.5~: aa!

$146,354.34 $127,354.65 $ 18,999. 69

• 26,468.21 • 17,606.61 • 8,861.6o
Elthibit B (Note 7)
The accompanyin g notes are an integral piµ-t ot this statement.

381

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

JUXB 30 I 1961

Note 1 - Basis of Accounting
.
The financial statements are stated on the cash basis ot
accounting on which basis revenue and expense are
recorded on the books or account when received and paid,
respectively -. Current operating expense bills applicable to the ;rear ended June 30, 1961 and unpaid at
that date were ot nominal amount.
Note 2 - Investments
Investments 1n securities purchased are stated on the
books and in this report at cost. Securities received
by- gift or bequest or by- assignment by residents ot the
home at Decoto are stated at estimated market value at
the time the securities are received or at the nominal
value or $1.00 i t the market value is unknown. In a
tew instances the carry-ing value of unlisted stoclcs
acquired by- girt or bequest has been restated at the
per share value ot the underlying assets ot the comp&Jl1'
which is believed to be less than the market value.
Note 3 - Notes Receivable
Notes receivable arise from the sale or real estate
assigned to Masonic Homes of California by residents ot
the home at Decoto and from real eatate received as
gifts or bequests by the Homes or the Pel"lllllllent
Endowment Fund,
Jfote 4 - Other Assets
Other assets consist of paid-up life insurance policies
and real estate assigned to Masonic Homes or California
by residents of the home at Decoto or received as girts
or bequests by the Permanent Endowment Fund. The life
insurance policies and parcels of real estate are each
recorded at the nominal value or $1.00 tor accountabi lity-. Payment by- Masonic Homes of loans previous}7
obtained by- the assignors on life insurance policies or
on real estate and or lite insurance premi1111s are added
to the nominal value.
Note 5 - Land, Buildings, and Equipment
Land, buildings and equipment are recorded at the cost when
originally purchased and no depreciatio n ot buildings
and equipment has been provided tor 1n the accounts.
Replacemen ts ot original items are charged to one ot the
Reserves tor Special Purposes establiahed by the Board
of Trustees.

382

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MEM ORI AL TEM PLE AUD IT

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

383

JUNE 30, 1961

Equipm ent, Contin ued
Note 5 - Land, lluildi nge, and
the year amounted to
Additi ons at the Decoto home during
pal item of $140,8 35.40
$189,6 45.03 of which the princicosts
ucting the
repres ents the balanc e of' the ons to of'theconstr
Covina ho11e
new hospi tal buildi ng. Additi sundry items
of f'urnis hduring the year consis ting ot
inga and equipm ent, amounted to $5,630 .18.
the Gener al Appra isal
An appra isal made during the year by
valua tion purpo ses,
Company, prima rily for insura nce value
on the structt U'lls,
placed a depre ciated replac ement
and Covina Homes
buildi ngs and conten ts at the Decoto respe
ctivel y.
of $5,332 ,438.4 9 and $1,884 ,657.5 1,
onal items
additi
tor
Unpaid conait ments at June 30, 1961tal buildi ng at Decoto
in conne ction With the new hospi
amounted to approx imatel y $5,000 .00.
es
Note 6 - Reserv es for Speci al Purpos
ished seven
The Truste es of' Masonic Homes have3, establ
1, 2, 3, 4, and
specia l reserv es {see Sched ule andpages
beque sts and other
5) to which are credit ed girts
at the direct ion of
BJ11ounts which gener ally are used than
direct opera ting
the Truste es for purpos es other
reserv es are
expen ses. The assets repres ented byal.these
includ ed 1n the assets ot the Gener Fund.
Note 1 - Retire ment Income Planplan was adopte d by Masonic Homes of
A retirem ent income
to provid e a method
Califo rnia as of Januar y 1, 1955rnia
and its employ ees
whereb y Masonic Homes of Califoto
fund provid ing
may •alee regula r contri bution s itsa trust
for partic ipatin g
defin ite retire ment income benef
by the Intern al
emplo yees. The plan has been approv ed
under Sectio n 40l(a)
Revenue Servic e as a qualif ied trust
ions of
provis
the
and exempt from income tax under
Sectio n 50l{a) of the Intern al Revenue Code.
in the plan, contri bute
J!Dplo yees, during their membership
and Masonic Homes
three percen t of their regula r salary amoun
ts which,
butes
of Califo rnia volun tarily contri
its emplo yees, Will
togeth er with the contri bution s from
All amounts
basis.
rial
financ e the plan on a sound actua istered as a Pensio n
are receiv ed, invest ed, and admin Americ an Trust
Trust Fund by the Wells Fargo Banlc
Company, as Truste e.
all partic ipatin g
The total past servic e costs torCalifo
rnia and the curren t
employ ees of Masonic Homes of
30, 1961, as determ ined
June
servic e costs estima ted to
by the actuar y, have been paid.

LYBRAND. Ross BROS. &. MONTGOMERY
CERTll 'IED PUBLIC ACCOU NTANT
ONE BUSH STREE T

S

SAN FRANCI SCO 4

Jufy 14, 1961

To the Trust ees of
Calif ornia Mason ic Memorial Temple
Calif ornia Masonic Memorial Temple
1111 Calif ornia Stree t
San Franc isco 8, Calif ornia
liabi lities ,
We have exami ned the statem ent of asset s,
ns, of Calif ornia
and fund balan ce arisin g from cash trans actio
rofit corpo ration , as
Masonic Memorial Temp le, a Calif ornia nonp
of income receiv ed
of June 30, 1961, and the relate d statem ent
ended . our exam inatio n
and expen ses disbu rsed for the year. then
ted audit ing stand ards,
was made in accor dance with gener ally accep
accou nting recor ds and
and accor dingl y inclu ded such tests or the
dered neces sary 1n the
such other audit lng proce dures as we consi
circum stanc es.
prese nt
In our opini on, the accom panyin g statem ents
balan ce or Calif ornia
tairly the asset s,· liabi lities , and fund
arisin g prima rily from
Ma.sonic Memorial Temp le, at June 30, 1961,
and expen ses disbu rsed
cash trans actio ns, and the income recei ved
consi stent with that ot
by it tor the year then ended , on a basis
the prece ding year.

384

LE
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMP
STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES,
AND FUND BALANCE

We atta ch the follo wing :

EXHIBIT A

STATEMEHl' OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES,
AND PUND BALANCE

EXHIBIT B

IVED
STATEMEm' OF INCOME RECE
AND EXPENSES DISBURSED

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE 30, 1961 AND 1966

TWO PAGES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

JUNE 30, 1961

;;1, ...l-\,...._ •

YEAR ENDED
JUNE 36 I . 1961
FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE 36, 19§1 AHD 1966

ef.. ;e_ (L..,.,.
I

EXHIBIT A
JUNE 30 I 1961

JUNE 30, 1961

S
SCHEDULE 1 SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTION
RECEIVED
SCHEDULE 2 SUMMARY OF EXPENSES

385

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

't- )t,..._,../ "i

Cer tifie d Pub lic Acco unta nts

~/'

CASH ON HAND AND IN BANKS
}:
MEMORIAL TEMPLE PROPERTY (AT COSTLand
Buil ding
Furn iture and Fixt ures

$

52,8 o4.6 9

$ 734, 303. 90
5,12 8,97 2.66
208, 879. 01 6 ,072 ,155 .57
$§,1 24,9 60.2 6

TOTAL ASSETS

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
LIABILITIES:
Note s paya ble to bank - Note 2
Con trac t paya ble to arch itec t Note 3
Ren tal depo sits for use of
pub lic spac e
With hold ings from emp loye es
for pens ion trus t
Rese rve for rene wals and
repl acem ents - Note 4

$1,4 93,7 90.0 0
71,2 54.o o
4,65 0.00
49.75
2,18 8.00

Tota l Lia bili ties
NCE:
F'UHD BALA
Con tribu tion s - Note 5:
Rece ived prio r to
$4,573 787. 07
July 1, 1960
Rece ived duri !lg year
ende d June 30,
352,911.4o
1961 - Sche dule 1
Tota l Con tribu tion s
Net expe nse:
Net expe nse to July 1,

196o
Net expe nse. for year
ende d June 30, 1961 Exh ibit B
Net Expe nse
Fund Bala nce

$1 1 571 1 931.75

4,92 6,69 8.47

284,111.50
89,5 58.4 6

TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND FUND BALANCE
The acco mpa nyin g note s are an inte

4,55 3,02 8.51
$6,1 24,9 60.2 6
gral part of thes e state men ts.

386

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

EXHIBIT B

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE 36, 1961 AND 1966

STATEMENT OF INCOME RECEIVED
AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
JUNE 30,
1961

JUNE 30,
1960

INCREASE
(DECREASE)

RENTALS AND MISCELLANEOUS INCOME:
$ 29,450. 00 $ 45 500.00 $(16,050.00~
Rent of public apace
. (138.00
288.00
150.00
Rent of contro l panel
(3,136. 10
8,861.1 0
5,725.0 0
Clean-u p charges
206.20
1,320.6 1
i,226.8 1
Sundry rentals and income
55,969. 71 (19,117 .90)
36,85i. 81
6,956.6 7
39,879 .64
46,836. 31
Rent of garage
18,000. 00
i8,ooo. oo
Rent of Grand Lodge apace
Interes t receive d on savings
486.62
1,378.4 4
1,862.0 6
bank deposit s
Total Rentals and
Miscell aneous Income

103,553 .18

115,227 .79

(11,674 .61)

30;182. 86
24,927 .16

28,573. 85
25,492. 26

1,609.0 1
(565.10 )

4,238,0 4

1,707.3 6

2,530'.6 8

3,382.5 3
56,232. 28

209.07
55,668. 90

3,173.4 6
563.68

Total Buildin g Expense

118,963 .17

111,621 .44

7,311.7 3

Net Income or (Expens e}
from Rentals and
Miscell aneous Income

(12,4o9 .99)

3,576.3 5

(18,986 .34)

65,751. 52

75,951. 60

(10, 200.0~)

7,360.9 5

6,968.2 3

392.72

11036.0 0

11122.0 0

(116.00 )

:z:41148.4:z:

84 1o:z:i.83

(91923. 36)

BUILDING EXPENSE:
Salary expense - Schedu le 2
Service expense - Schedu le 2
Mainten ance expense Schedu le 2
Insuran ce expense Schedu le 2 - Note 6
Propert y 't axes

OTHER EXPENSE:
Interes t on notes payable
Genera l and admini strative
expense - Schedu le 2
Amount transfe rred to Reserve
for Renewa ls and Replac ements - Note 4
Total Other Expense

MET EXPENSE - Exhibi t A $ 89,528. 46 $ 8o,492. 48 $ (9,062
The accomp anying no t es ar e an integra l part of this stateme

nt.

..98)

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

387

JUNE 301 1961

Note 1 - Basia of Accoun ting:
on the cash
The financ ial stateme nts have been prepare d the
balance
basis of accoun ting with the excepti on of
of
due for archite ctural service s in the constru ction
and
the Temple in the amount of $71,254 (see Note ls3) and
an additio n of $1,036 to a reserve for renewa
replace ments authori zed by the Trustee s (see Note 4).
Curren t operati ng expense bills applica ble to the year
ended June 30, 1961 and unpaid at June 30, 1961, were
of nomina l amount.
Note 2 - Notes Pay~ble to Banks:
deed of
Notes payable to banks are secured by a first the
trust on the Temple Bite real proper ty and
improve ments thereon . The notes are repayab le in
annual installm ents or $20,000 to each bank, continu
latter
ing annual ly until Octobe r 1, 1965, on t which
unpaid
date all sums or princip al and interes then
shall be due and payable . During the year ended
June 30, 1961,· total payment.a or $270,00 0 were made
rate
on these notes. The notes bear interes t at the
or ~ per annum, payable semi-an nually April 1st and
Octobe r lat or each year.
The balance s or the notes at June 30, 1961 amounte d to
fl,493, 790, as follows :
America n Trust Company
.Anglo Califor nia Nation al · Bank
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Crocke r First Nation al Bank of
San Francis co
The Bank of Califor nia, N.A.
Wells Fargo Bank

248,965
248,965
248,965
248,965
248,965
248,962
$1,493, 790

Note 3 - Contra ct Payable to Archite ct:
F. Roller
The balance of the contrac t payable to Albert
of the
for archite ctural service s in the constru ction
Temple, amount ing to $71,254 , is payable in three
equal annual installm ents. During the year ended
June 30, 1961, two installments aggreg ating $47,502
were paid on this contrac t.

388

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

389

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

JUNE 30, 1961

Note 4 - Reserve for Renewal·s and Replacements:
During the year ended June 30, 1960, the Trustees
authorized the establishment of a Reserve for
RenewaJsand Replacements and the annual addition
thereto of a sum equal to one per cent of the
annual gross income of the Temple. The addition
for the year ended June 30, 1961 amounted to $1,036.
The Reserve has not been funded.
·

SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M.:
1960 annual ·returns:
Master Masons on June 30,- 1960 @ $1.00
per capita
Contributions of initiates @ $9.00 each,
1959-60 fiscal year

SCHEDULE 1

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30

I

1961

$238,438.00
19,233.00
257,671.00

Note 5 - Contributions:
Contribution pledges unpaid at June 30, 1961 amount
to approximately $48,000. The unpaid pledges are
not reflected in the financial statements until the
pledges are collected.

Contributions of initiates @ $9.00 each,
1960-61 fiscal year

304,885.00
~:

Note 6 - Insurance Expense:
Based on policies now in force, the annual insurance
costs on an accrual basis of accounting amount to
approximately $5,000 .a .year.
Note 7 - Contingent Liability:
The general contractor of the Temple building !"i·l ed
a suit against the Temple on August 4, 1958. The
architect, general counsel, and trustees contend
that this action is without merit. The Temple has
filed an Answer and Cross-Complaint. Additional
related issues also have been raised. These matters
may be resolved by compromise or settled by trial.
The interests of the Temple .will be vigorously
prosecuted by its counsel.

47,214.oo

198.oo

Adjustments for refunds

304,687.00
INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONS
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED YEAR
ENDED JUNE 30, 1961

48,224.4o
$352 911 o 4o
I

390

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

SCHEDULE 2

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

FISCAL YEARS ENDED
JUNE ~() 1 196! AND !260

SUMMARY OF EXPENSES

SALARY EXPENSE:
Salaries:
Building manager
Engineer
Janitors
Miscellaneou s

JUNE 30,
1961

JUNE 30,
1960

INCREASE
(DECREASE)

$ 6,000.00 $ 6,000.00 $
400.00
10,000.00 9,600.00
579. 98
10,755.50 10,175.52
460.oz
11996.22
11236.42
28,752.02 27 ,311.97 1,440.05
168.96
1,228.44 1,059. 48
202.40
202.40

Payroll taxes
·union welfare
Total SalaI(' Expense ~01182.86 281~73.8~ 11609.01
Exhibit
SERVICE EXPENSE:
(29.15)
5,744.6o
Janitorial services
5, 773. 75
65,46
882.94
948.40
Janitor supplies
68.39
2,991.21 2,922.82
Gas
(536,55)
Electricity
9,271.73 9,808.28
134.36
4,205.70
4,340.06
Elevator services
406.89
55,97
462.86
Water
(17,89)
315.87
Telephone and· telegraph
297 .98
23,50
235,50
259.00
Scavenger
(329.12)
611.~2
240.21
Miscellaneou s
Total Service Expense (~)
Exhibit B
24 1 2~·16 221492.26
MAINTENANCE EXPENSE:
(72.12)
106.24
178.36
Carpentry
222.99
335.59
558.58
Painting
205.10
71.00
276.10
Plumbing
493,84 1,425.19
1,919.03
Electrical
(392.03)
392.03
Tools and hardware supplies
349.14 11 028.92
Miscellaneou s
1 1JI8.02
Total Maintenance Expense 412~8.04
Eihlbit B
lzI07.~6 2!~~0.68
INSURANCE EXPENSE - Note 6:
11.78 3,088.24
3, 100.02
Pi re
82.22
282.21
12'.l.22
Workmen's compensation
Total Insurance EXJ?ense 209.oz ~11z~.46
Exhibit B
31382.~~
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE:
1,355.00 . 2,382.61 F,021 .61J
legal services .
Accounting and auditing services
1,500.00 3,493,68 1,993.68
517,59
531.08
1,048.67
Stationery and printing
697 .44
255.01
952.45
Public relations
52,77
132.64
79.87
Postage expense
l,603.6o
1,603.60
Personal property taxes
542.61
222.28
Miscellaneou s·
768.22
Total General and Admin. istrative Expense $ 7,360.95 $ 6,968.23 $ ~92.z2
Exhibit B

391

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI A
UNION CITY, CALIFORNI A
Annual Report 1960-1961
Names of Residents--M EN-Average Age 81.48 Years or 81 yrs.. 6 mo.
*Indicates admission during current year.
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Anderson, Alfred H ..... Sept. 25, '51 Mt. Moriah ------- 44 San Francisco ......88
Applegarth,
Edward M. ................June 4, '60 Acom ..................494 Oakland ···-··-------85
Armbruster, Wm. F ...Sept. 15, '55 Amity ---·····--------370 San FranciscG ......81
Bacon, Herbert W. • ....Mar. 23, '61 Russian River ....181 Windsor -·-······-··-81
Barnes, Wm. H. ···-····---July 2, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ______78
Barton, Clarence K. ....Oct. 16, '59 Sun Garden ......530 Fresm> ······-------·-82
Beckmann, Carl A ......May 3, '51 Liberty ··-·-·--·······-299 Santa Clara ..........78
Beer, Leslie• ..................Dec. 19, '60 Woodstock ..........491 Alameda .............. 60
Bogan, Cleo ....................Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio ....668 Banning ---------------80
Bolton, George F. ________ Oct. 26, '55 Corinthian... ....... 9 Marysville ............91
Bradley, Arthur B. * ....Dec. 3, '60 University ···-····-394 Los Angeles _____81
Bremser, Arthur H.* ..July 9, '60 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........80
Brown, Frederick A •....Oct.17, '57 Eucalyptus ..........243 Hayward ..............82
Brown, Robert G. ______ .May 9, '57 Fort Crook ........575 Fall River Mills..72
Burt, Byron H ...............Dec. 6, '56 Molino ................150 Tehama ................76
Carlson, Carl o.• ..........Feb.17, '61 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......71
Case, Byron W.............Mar.11, '60 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ................71
Casey, Newman H .......Mar. 26, '55 Santa Barbara .. 192 Santa Barbara ....84
Cicero, Carmel ..............May 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ···-···········--···-80
Condon, Wilbert S. ···-···Jan. 11, '42 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ....--------85
Covell, William A.• ....Nov.12, '60 Consuelo ···-·······325 Escondido ............82
Covington, James G...Aug. 30, '57 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........78
Crozier, Alfred B. ______.June 26, '60 Semper Virens ..552 Eureka ···-··--·····-·78
Darby, Bruce M. • ........Sept. 23, '60 Signal ..................543 Long Beach ..........83
Darolles, Jean L ...........Mar. 25, '59 Francis Drake ....376 San Francisco ......79
Davidson, Thomas A...Apr. 4, '55 North Star .......... 91 Fort Jones ............93
Deardorff, Charles D...Dec. 7, '59 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ······-····-'19
Dixon, James G. •..........June 11, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ···-···-······79
Donaldson, Charles ......Feb.14, '58 Marin ···-······-----191 San Rafael _______84
Dresser, Walter P .........Jan. 29, '60 Melrose ..............602 Los Angeles .._ ..88
DuBois, Andrew B .......Apr. 30, '58 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............78
Duebel, Charles ............Apr. 5, '58 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......82
Dye, Melvin• ..................Dec. 12, '60 Visalia ................ 128 Visalia ..................61
Dzaroogian, Marsob ....May 19, '60 Vallejo ................487 Vallejo ···-····--·······64
Evans, Alfred R.* ........June 6, '61 Howard .............. 37 Yreka ···-··-··-·--76
Frare, Giacomo ·······-··.Apr. 1, '51 Speranza Italian 219 San Francisco ......80
French, John s.• ..........Feb. 4, '61 Victory ................474 San Francisco ......78
Friberg, Carl G.* ···-····Apr.14 , '61 Oak Grove ....... -215 Alameda ________79
Frost, Harold G .............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ........71
Gerhart, William E .....Feb. 10, '61 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........8'1
Gifford, Ottie E ...........June 25, '60 Victory ................474 San Francisco ......76
Gillespie, Earl L. • ........Apr. 15, '61 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ..............84
Godfrey, Henry S.........July 25, '54 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda .............. 90
Gray, Arthur ................May 12, '60 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ···----·······..75
Green, Robert F ...........May 7, '58 Curtis ..................140 Cloverdale ............81
Groom, Francis G .........Oct. 24, '58 Lakeshore ..........551 Oakland ................83
Guthrie, Edmond P .....May 20, '60 Redlands ............300 Redlands ···-··-···87
Hagemann, Henry F.* ..Feb. 24, '61 Hermann ............127 San Francisco ......77
Hanson, Oscar C.........Nov. 7, '55 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica ......76
Hare, Darrell ..................May 12, '60 Excelsior ... ___ ...166 San Francisco ......86
Hascall, Andrew• ........Oct. 3, '60 Charity ................362 Campbell ..............80
Hendricks, Alfred ........Nov.17, '50 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ···-··--------BO
Hendricks, George G. Sept. 26, '59 All States ............593 Long Beach ..........79

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

392

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Age
Tow n
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
........78
........
land
Oak
403
....
na
Bue
a
Yerb
Haw kins , Mor time r• ....Apr . 4, '61
dena ..............71
'60 Coro na ···-···········324 PasaFran
cisc o ...-.88
Herm ans, How ard S. • ..Oct. 31,
San
·212
'60 So. S.F. ·······-······
..- ....87
eles
Hick ey, Fran k J ....... ....May 27,
Ang
Los
319
........
ck
enbe
Hop per, Will iam H. ....Dec. 11, '57 Holl
......82
o
cisc
Fran
San
'38 Pres idio ···-·········354
Jack , Cha rles P .............Jan. 9,
-···75
·······
le
erda
140
..
Clov
........
........
is
Curt
'60
9,
cisc o ......88
Jeffe rs, Leo nard M. • ....Dec. 27, '48
Fran
San
·549
····-··
·······
ice
o ......89
Jefts , Ben jami n J ...... ...Oct. 27, '60 Just
Bald er ................393 San Fran cisc
o ......83
cisc
Jens en, Jam es, Sr.• ....July
Fran
San
393
........
........
er
Bald
John son, Gus tave E .....Aug . 28, '56 Sou th Park ........563 Los Ang eles ........84
John son, Jam es C. ···-·· ·Apr .15, '60
91
'51 Univ ersit y ..........394 Los Ang eles ···-···
Kee n, Cass ius H ....... ....Dec. 15,
72
···
·······
465
···-···
........
no
........
Fres
ter
Cen
'56
19,
Oct.
Ken nard , Jose ph W .....
.. _77
ara
Barb
ta
San
192
..
ara
Barb
ta
Lafk as, Mic hael H ...._...Feb . 20, '59 San
Leo nhar dt,
l San Fran cisc o ......87
'61 Cali forn ia _
Rich ard M.• ···········-··.May 16,
land ·······-·······93
6, '57 Foot hill ···-·········564 Oak
Lon don, Mor ris W. ···-·· ·May 25,
Sou th Gate ···-·····82
596
....
........
n
rdia
Gua
'57
June
R.
e
-·78
Low ther , Law renc
Prov iden t ..........609 Sacr ame nto ·······-·93
Lue thge , John C.• ........Sept .16, '60
·······
·······
urn
Aub
16
····-··
'59
6,
···-···
ka
Feb.
Eure
Lyo ns, Geo rge W...........
15
McC all,
Orov ille ...........-.103 Orov ille ···-······-··981
'56
4,
.
Wm . McL ellan ..........Sept
···-···
eles
Ang
320
........
Los
Gate
th
Sou
'58
27,
McG raw, John H ...... ...June 5, '59 Park Bou leva rd..568 Oak land ···········-···93
McK ellip s, Dan iel 0 ...Aug .. 4, '60 East Belt ............391 Tuo lum ne ............85
Man n, Will iam J. • ......Aug 6, '61 Roc krid ge ..........468 Oak land ................78
Mar terst eck, Dav id* ....June.19, '57 Teh acha pi ..........313 Teha chap i .........• 71
Mar tinse n, Tho mas A. Nov 4, '60 San Joaq uin ...... 19 Stoc kton ·······-····-82
Mat hes, Wm. W...... ..- ..Jan.. 15, '51 Frie ndsh ip ........210 San Jose ..............97
May , Fred ...............•......Aug . 3, '47 Gold en Gate ...... 30 San Fran cisc o ......87
Mea rns, John C...... .....Mar . 29, '60 Broo klyn ............225 Lafa yett e ..............75
Mei nbre ss, Har ry• ......Aug
San Fran cisc o ..•...84
24, '61 Pres idio ···-·········354
Milk op, Mar tin* ..........June
61 Oak land ·······-··-···85
.....
.......
Oak
Live
'60
12,
.
Aug
....
•
Moody, Bert rand F.
Alam eda ............167 Frem ont ···-···········71
Mos egaa rd, Alfr ed C. • Mar . 1, '61
Mou lthro p,
Gro ve ..........215 Alam eda .............•76l
-········.Apr. 11, '59 Oak twoo
-··.B
Carl ton C. ·······
d ..........501 Wes twoo d ·······
'53
Wes
17,
.
Mur ray, Jam es B ...._...Apr
San Fran cisc o ......82
120
......
........
lity
Fide
Oct. 12, '57
79
Myers, Rob ert ···-······-···
....346 Palo Alto ···-·········-83
....Oct. 28, '60 Palo Alto ........
nto ........
ame
Neal, Fran k M.• ........
Sacr
499
........
Cty
ital
'58
27,
Cap
.
Nieb ling, Wm. F. ______ .Aug
-···84
laus ..............129 Whe atlan dch·······
Oak ley, Cha rles W...... .Dec. 16, '49 Nico
g Bea ..........76
Lon
227
........
ch
Bea
g
Lon
.Feb. 16, '57
...... 74
Olin cy, Har ry ·······-···-·
Cha rter Roc k ... .410 Berk eleyllo........
- .•.78
.......
Ollson, Lest er E ....... ....Aug . 24, '59
tebe
Mon
451
.....•..
llo
tebe
'51 Mon
87
........
Peal e, Cha rles W...... ...Aug.. 18,
eles
Ang
Los
·537
·······
Utop ia ···-···
Port er, Will iam G ...... .Aug 8, '46
..........335 Los Ang eles ........86
Gate
t
Wes
'55
23,
.
Sept
.•...
H
o ......75
Pow ell, Will iam
San Fran cisc o ....360 San Franacisc
......88
........
rovi
Pric e, Will iam L ....... ....Feb . 18, '54
Mon
607
..
........
'60 Sojo urne r
Ran dall, Fine lle K. ......May 17,
61 Oak land ................93
....
........
Oak
Live
'59
6,
Feb.
.....
..............95
Ran dolp h, Geo rge E
You nt .•................ 12 Nap a ........
Ray mon d, Will iam P •..Feb. 22, '60
Ang eles ......-93
Los
405
.
........
•......
eta
Mon
'57
20,
Ray nor, Clar ence R. ....Apr.. 30, '56 Bay City ............526 San Fran cisc o ......81
Rein hold , Gab riel ........Sept
Rich ards on,
580 Ram ona •..........- ..JSB
ly 29, '50 San ta Mar ia ......
8
Will iam T. -···· ·-··- ..Ju
12 Nap a -············'····-·7
··
·······
'60 You nt ···-··0
···..9
···-··a
Rob erts, Owe n 1.• ........Dec.. 16,
icop
Mar
434
..
........
_
a
icop
Mar
'61
Rob ertso n, Geo rge H. • Mar . 15,
Fres no ···---··-··-'19
Fres no ···········-··.247 Mar
Rob inso n, Amo s ..........Sept 26, '59
ysvi lle ·······-···88
an .......... 9
nthi
Cori
'61
15,
Feb.
........
•
E.
rge
Geo
Pasa dena ..._.86
Roch e,
So.
367
..
_
dena
Pasa
So.
'57
Roche, Geo rge W...... ...Jan. 18,
Fran cisc o ......65
San
1
···46
-·-··t
Arg onau
Rose nzw eig, Sam ..........Jan. 6, '60
Fran cisc o ... _.92
San
0
····50
seve lt ···-···
Rossi, Vale ntin o ............May 13, '59 Roo

393

Age
Tow n
No.
Admitted
Lodge
Name
85
-···-.
···-··
'59 Live Oak ···-······· 61 Oak land
Rum felt, Clar ence P .....Jan.. 19,
eley ···-··-·····87
Berk
'59
489
2,
....
........
Mar
...
L
Bay
urn
East
Aub
,
oley
Scho
Fran cisc o ......84
Miss ion ···-···········169 San
Schr oder , John G. • ......Mar . 24, '61
Los Ang eles ........85
414
....
'59
........
n
28,
ngto
Jan.
..
Arli
.......
P
is
Lew
Shan non,
'55 Teha chap i ..........313 Teh acha pi ............95
Shie lds, Sam uel A. ......June 25,
'55 Sun nysi de ..........577 Los Ang eles ···-···77
5,
.
Apr
.
......
A
Sh~rt, B~njamin
Oak land -····· -··--· 88
13,
.
·Apr
Alca traz ···-··-·····244 Red
Srm th, Pier son D. ···-·· Jan. 6, '60
land s ········--··79
300
'59
....
........
s
...
land
Red
Spar ks, War ren T......
a ·······-··-··---74
Colm
'60
.454
9,
......
y
•......
.Ma
•..
Croc ker
Spec ht, Fran k M.•.....
Stei gelm an,
'60 Bell flow er ..........523 Bell flow er ···--- --78
War ren H ..•................Mar . 19,
··--91
8,
.
Red land s ·······-···300 Red land s ·-····Ster ling , John W ...... ...Nov . 5, '56
'61 San Juan ............732 Fair Oak s ···-·······80
Stew art, Cha rles• _......Apr
'44 Cala vera s ............ 78 San And reas ...- ...90
Stew art, Jam es 0. ···-···Febe. 20,
Ang eles ···-···76
The Gard ens ......621 Los
Stra in, Will iam R. ......Jun 11, '60
.272 Pasa dena ..............88
...
........
'55
dena
14,
.
Pasa
.Apr
..
---C.
n
Alvi
Stre et,
Suth erla nd,
is ···········--·····81
Geo rge W. ---·- -···- ·Jul y 13, '53 Clovis -·-··-·········417 Clov
nd,
erla
Suth
Beac h....84
Mar.10, '58 Red ondo ..............328 Red ondo
Will iam M. ···-··-··-··...Nov
········74
···-···
land
'57
Oak
18,
61
.
-···
·······
.......
R.
Oak
Live
Tafo ro, Cha rles
..............75
dale
Glen
667
....
'56
........
4,
idian
Feb.
Mer
.....
F
er
Tho mps on, Elm
'60 Sou th Gate ........320 Los Ang eles ...- ...88
Tow nsen d, Albe rt E. • ..Aug .. 12,
'57 Univ ersit y ..........394 Los Ang eles -.-...87
8,
Mar
...
Vale ntin e, Eug ene P
'47 Mid way ••............426 Taft ·······-······-··---77
2,
.
Nov
Wal lis, Abr aham G .....
Rafa el ···-··-···82
Mar in •.................191 San dsor
War den, Rob ert A .•.....Jun e 1, '56
............. _.83
Win
181
..
r
'55
Rive
28,
Rus sian
Wat erm an, Alfr ed S .....Feb.
o ......90
cisc
Fran
San
144
......
........
Orie ntal
Wells, Will iam S. -·-··. Aug . 4, '51
....80
........
o
Dieg
San
561
..
........
ec. 4, '54 San Dieg o
Whi te, Har ry C. ···-······.D
.. 76 Ang els Cam p ......89
n
'61
ntai
25,
.
Mou
r
Apr
..
Bea
A.•
st
Erne
,
ttard
Whi
......78
Dec. 5, '58 Frie ndsh ip ···-····-210 San Jose ........
Wild er, Will iam R. ···-···
·······-··-···79
land
Oak
'46
468
..
24,
g.
........
..Au
ge
F.
krid
rles
Roc
Cha
,
Will iams
'60 Sou th Park ........583 Los Ang eles ···-···78
Will iams , Jam es T. • ....July. 30,
'59 Sequ oia ..............349 Oak land ···········-···77
24,
Aug
.
......
R
mas
Wilson, Tho
'59 Coro na ................324 Pasa dena ..............76
8,
y
.Ma
.....
Rt
k
Wood, Fred eric
'60 Nav al .................. 87 Vall ejo -·--- ----- -81
5,
July
......
Wyn man , Will iam•
'56 Carm el ···-··-·······680 Carm el ···-·· -··-·- -84
.11,
.Feb
.....
Zuck , Jam es R. ........
Age
Tow n
No.
Died
Lodge
Name
..89
........
Rosa
ta
San
57
.
.......
'60
24,
Rosa
Oct.
ta
..
San
Bak er, Anth ony D .......
Jam es A.
78
Fosh ay ............641 Los Ang eles ···-···
Bari l, Leo n J •..................Oct. 10, '60
'60 Sacr ame nto ........ 40 Sacr ame nto ·······-· 78
Barr , Geo rge W....... ....Aug . 25,
San Jose ···-··-·····81
Bars tow, Will iam A. ....Oct. 16, '60 Will ow Glen ........676
San Diego ·······-··· 75
35
........
o
'61
25,
Dieg
pr.
San
····A
·······
···-··Blum , John
Bell flow er ·······-··· 78
'60
523
..
22,
........
Oct.
er
...
W
flow
k
Bell
eric
Fred
ley,
Brad
San Diego ·······-···81
296
.
'60
.......
12,
c.
Gate
er
··.De
Silv
···-·T.
Brat tin, John
La Mes a ........•.•.....85
407
......
'60
........
11,
.
a
Sept
Mes
.....
La
F
n
jami
Bule n, Ben
Ang eles ........84
Los
319
........
'60
ck
12,
.
enbe
Nov
..
Holl
R.
Cam mer t, Edm und
kee ···-··-··-···82
'60
28,
Truc
00
Dec.
-·····2
........
Truc kee ·······
Craw ford , Tho mas
'60 Griz zly ·······-·······601 Port ola ···-·· -··-- -·93
Date , Harr ingt on S. ....Dec.. 26,
'60 Holl ywo od ···-·····355 Holl ywo od ···-·· -··69
Ford , Ralp h Gilm ore ..Aug 12, '61
Ang eles ···-···92
Pent alph a ..........202 Los ywo
Grav er, Rob ert E ...... ...Jan. 31,
od ............70
355 Holl
..
'61
........
18,
od
ywo
June
..
Holl
.......
G
ert
Rob
an,
Grog
Los Ang eles ........88
Halp in, Rob ert Lee ____June 20, '61 Silv er Trow el ....415
'60 Wes t Gate ..........335 Los Ang eles ........71
Hart man , Will iam L ...Jul y. 31,
'60 Live Oak ............ 61 Oak land ·······-·······87
10,
Aug
.....
C
rge
Geo
,
Haz elton
'61 Cali stog a ···-······.233 Cali stog a ····-· -··-·8 2
21,
May
.....
P
iam
Will
Herb old,

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Died
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Hook, John R. .............. Sept. 22, '60 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........82
Hufstedler, Charles ... _.Jan. 11, '61' Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa .......- .....80
Huling, Wallace S .......Mar. 3, '61 Hammonton ......433 Hammonton ...- ...84
Jones, Howard T ...........Jan. 26, '61 Holtville ..............425 Holtville ..............78
Look, William C.........Sept. 20, '60 Hills Ferry ........236 Newman ........... _.90
Nielsen, Carl M .............Feb. 24, '61 Santa Barbara .. 192 Santa Barbara .... 75
Roales, Robert W .........Dec. 16, '60 Needles ..............326 Needles ........... - .....75
Skinner, Harold R. ......Feb. 26, '61 Guardian ............596 South Gate ..........74
Thornton, Francis G .....May 19, '61 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ..............83
Willis, Walter C...........Apr. 5, '61 Dimond ................603 Oakland ................68
Wilson, Charles R. ........Feb. 2, '61 Searchlight ... - ...567 Long Beach ...- .....82
WITHDRAWALS-M EN-1960-1961
Howard, Charlie D .......Jan. 27, '61 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara ....78
Laureen, Peter W.........Oct.19, '60 Normal Heights.. 632 San Diego ............75

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

395

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

Annual Report 1960-1961
Names of Residents-WOMEN -Average age: 81.25 Years or 81 yrs., 3 mos.
*Indicates admission during current year.
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Abbott, Sarah E ...........Mar.10, '60 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ........75
Allen, Maude ................Aug. 22, '58 Lexington .......... 104 El Monte .............. 79
Allred, Rosa ....................Feb. 27, '60 Mt. Davidson ....481 San Francisco ......80
Ames, Myra D ...............May 8, '54 Delano ................ 309 Delano ..................74
Anderson, Hattie M .... .May 30, '57 Jewel ... _.............374 San Francisco ......87
Anderson, Mary A.• ....Sept. 9, '60 San Mateo ..........226 San Mateo ............82
Andrews, Lela M .........Sept. 2, '58 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ..............85
Vermont
Appel, Henrietta H.• ..Aug.12, '60
Square ............515 Los Angeles ........76
Ashbrooke, Minnie M. Apr. 16, '57 Palestine ............ 351 Los Angeles ........84
Baker, Mary A .............Aug. 27, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................87
Barr, Mabel W. ............May 24, '54 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........81
Barstow, Eva M .............Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose ..............79
Bavouset, Cora ..............Nov. 2, '55 West Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles ........77
Belknap, Annie L .........Oct. 24, '56 Temblor ..............477 Fellows ................85
Bell, Clare R. ................June 21, '57 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......90
Bell, Edith L .................Mar. 29, '58 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......80
Bellmer, Eleanor• ........Jan. 25, '61 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................80
Bergen, Anna• ..............Nov. 28, '60 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......86
Black, Evalita M ...........July 17, '59 King David's ....209 San Luis Obispo..80
Bloy, Edith ....................Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............89
Blum, Lena ....................May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............73
Boaz, Georgia E ........... Nov. 6, '59 Oxnard ................ 341 Oxnard ..................84
Bogan, Selma E .............Aug.18, '59 San Gorgonio .... 668 Banning ................ 73
Boren, Maud B .............Oct.16, '58 Eel River ............147 Fortuna ................86
Bowman, Ottie B .........Apr. 3, '54 Henry Morse ...... 541 Berkeley ..............80
Boyer, Maude A ...........Jan. 20, '60 Harbor ................ 502 Richmond ............85
Boyer, Mildred A .........Sept. 14, '52 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ......89
Brewer, Nana N ....! ......Dec. 20, '58 Highland Park ..382 Highland Park ....78
Brokaw, Leona C. ........Apr.17, '58 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ..................80
Brown, Jean L .............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........81
Brown, Nellie E ...........Oct. 12, '57 Pajara ..................110 Watsonville .......... 78
Browne, Rachel R. ......June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................72
Burrage, Mary E. • ......June 19, '61 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................76
Carey, Marguerite G. • June 29, '61 Wilmington ........198 Wilmington ..........88
Carlson, Lisa• ................Feb. 17, '61 Balder .................. 393 San Francisco ......67
Carroll, Frances• ..........Aug. 1, '60 Alameda ............167 Fremont ................ 76
Carswell, Adella B .......Dec. 31, '58 LaFayette ..........126 Sebastopol ............89
Carter, Adelia M ...........July 1, '58 Santa Cruz ........ 33 Santa Cruz ..........88
Casterline, Mary A. ....Apr.10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............88
Caughey, Helen D. • ......Feb. 1, '61 Vitruvius ............ 145 Bloomfield ............78
Cheney, Hazel E ...........Aug. 15, '51 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 75
Chesworth, Naomi E ... Sept. 7, '56 So. Pasadena ....367 So. Pasadena ...... 69
Childers1 Cora ..............June 14, '57 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ......84
Cicero, 1\lltoinette ........Mar. 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa .................- ...68
Clayberger, Alice J .....Nov.16, '59 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton .............. 76
Cleghorn, Lulu Belle• Mar. 15, '61 Caledonia ..........486 Bakersfield ..........82
Corbin, Elsa B. • ............May 31, '61 Clovis ..................417 Clovis .................... 77
Cormeny, Rose• ............Aug. 29, '60 Oak Grove ........ 215 Alameda ..............85
Cortright, Laura ..........Sept. 7, '54 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............84
Coward, Anna M. • ........Oct. 21, '60 McKinley .......... 347 Richmond ............ 79
Crilley, Jessie• ..............July 27, '60 Atascadero ........493 Atascadero ..........93
Crozier, Mary E ...........Aug.11, '59 Pacific ..................139 San Francisco ......78
Dale, Gertrude ..............Mar. 31, '60 Rockridge -·---468 Oakland _______80

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

396

397

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
82
Dalton, Meta C ..•............Jan. 27, '51 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................
Darby, Geneviev e M...Mar. 30, '60 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............83
···-···84
Dibble, Catherin e O...Sept.10, '53 Pentalph a •......... 202 Los Angeles
5
···········-···8
Oakland
8
···-··-·····18
Oakland
'59
Mar.19,
.....
M
Margaret
Dilling,
86
........
Angeles
Los
392
..........
Lake
West
'46
22,
.Feb.
..............
E
Nora
Dixon,
San Rafael ..........80
Donaldson, J. Elaine ....Feb. 14, '58 Marin ···-·············191
Francisco ......84
Douthitt, Edith A. ........Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San
Dudley, Annie Laura ..Feb. 8, '58 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach .......... 76
Dunn, Mabel I. ···-·········Oct. 3, '57 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose ·······-·····75
79
Edwards, Emma L .......Nov. 1, '52 Mosaic ···-······-··.218 Livermor e ............
...... 79
Edwards, Lina M.........May 23, '50 Presidio ·······-·····354 San Francisco
Elliott, Maud M. ···-·····Jun e 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ......838
···-···········7
Ely, Eva Estelle ............Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye ···-·········195 Winters
Evans, Christina • ........Mar. 16, '61 Marin ···-·············191 San Rafael ............79
Fanning, Jennie H .......Nov. 4, '57 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................81
Mt. View ···-·········80
Feiling, Idabel C. ........Feb. 3, '59 Mt. View ···-·······194
Fleming, Thora J .........Jan. 3, '58 Mendocin o ........179 Mendocin o ..........79
Bellflower ............69
Foley, Lida E. ·······-······.Apr. 18, '55 Bellflower ···-·····523
Frank Dorothy (Ford) Dec. 30, '59 Fidelity ..............120 San Francisco ......63
Freuli~h, Helene ..........July 11, '59 Hollywoo d ........355 Hollywoo d ·······-···73
9
Gabbs, Augusta E .........Jan. 30, :57 Carqu~nez ..........337 Crock~tt ···-········-·8
···-······-·84
Roseville
-·····-··.222
Roseville
56
9,
.Apr.
........
P
Pearl
Garrison,
......83
Geibel, Theresa ............Feb. 4, '53 Fairmoun t ..........435 San Francisco
···-·····82
to
Sacramen
612
....
Pillars
Three
'59
2,
May
.......
E
Frances
Gerbert,
···-······-·84
Gilbert, Tillie B .............Feb. 2, '57 Hillcrest ..............573 Berkeley.................
.77
Gilliam, Estelle G .........Mar. 20, '46 Hemet --··-··-··-· 615 Hemet
Vermont
88
........
Square ............515 Los Angeles
Goodwin , Emma ..........June 13, '48
Grant, Lillian A.
Georgeto wn ........ 25 Georgeto wn ........86
(Hullinge r) ···-··-·····-··Ocl 6, '32
·-···············110 Watsonvi lle ..........83
Green, Cora L ...............Feb. 12, '60 Pajaro
............217 Monterey ···-·········82
Monterey
'61
15,
May
....
A.•
Mary
,
Guintyllo
5 Winters ···-··-··--·8 5
···-·········19
Buckeye
'52
27,
ay
Guthrie, Rena ·······-·····.M
San Francisco ......78
216
.
.................
Doric
Hannah, Hannah May June 8, '56 Riverban k ..........459 Riverban k ···-··-···74
Hansen, Grace Z ...........Jan. 11, '60 Rockridg e ..........468 Oakland ···-··-··-···89
Hardy, Alice M. ···-·······Dec. 27, '54 Excelsior ···-·····-166 San Francisco ......81
Hare, Violet ....................May 12, '60 Yolo ···-··············· 81 Yolo ......................78
Harper, Laura D...........Nov. 6, '57 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......84
Harris, Bertha L. • ........Oct. 5, '60 King Solomon' s ..260 San Francisco ....100
Harrison, Martha ..........Nov.19, '52 Golden Rule ......479 San Jose ···········-···83
Harter, Clara B .............May 17, '58 Charity ................362 Campbel l ·······-·····73
Hascall, Mabel M. • ......Oct. 3, '60 Yerba Buena ....403 Oakland ······--·-···77
Hawkins , Evelyn• ........Apr. 4, '61
·······-······.465 Fresno ··········--·-··65
Hays, Lilian T ...............May 5, '55 Center
............... .247 Fresno ..................82
Fresno
'58
Hedburg, Huldah A. ....Mar. 5,
........356 Mill Valley ·-·······85
Valley
Mill
Helmore, Ada F ...........Oct. 9, '59 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica ......69
Hepburn, Catherin e ....Apr. 7, '52 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ···-···-·-·7 1
Hill, Neva A ................ .Dec. 5, '55 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............76
Hinze, Henrietta M.......Jan. 27, '54
Hollingsw orth,
Friendsh ip ..........210 San Jose .............. 77
Catherin • ....................July 9, '60 F. K. Shattuck ..571 Berkeley ·········--·77
Hollis, Maybelle J .........Feb. 11, '53 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............81
Hoover, Emma Jane ....Feb. 5, '50 Hollenbe ck ........319 Los Angeles ···-·-87
Hopper, Lotta S .............Dec. 11, '57 Lancaste r ............437 Lancaste r ..............82
Hoskins, Elizabeth ....... .May 3, '55 Brooklyn ···-······.225 Oakland ···········-···81
Hunter, Jeanie ..............July 14, '58 Sun Garden ... _...530 Fresno ·······-·········7t
Hyland, Erle Woods ....Dec. 3, '56
Hyman, Loretta
Starr King •..- ...344 San Francisco ·-···69
(Murray) --···-·--· .Dec. 15, '47

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
........89
Jacobsen , Josephin e ....June 25, '54 So. Calif....•........278 Los Angeles
.............. 76
Jakobs, Inez ·······-··········.Feb.17, '60 Monterey .......- ...217 Monterey
........ 92
Angeles
Los
394
..........
y
Universit
'56
26,
ov.
···-··-··-··.N
S.
Hala
Jobes,
77
............
d
Richmon
-······-··347
McKinley
'58
2,
July
•..........
T
Ada
,
Johnston
91
........•.....
Lakeport
199
................
Hartley
'56
27,
r.
···-··-··.Ma
Jordan, Evaline
85
............
d
Kallstrom , Edith L • ..Aug. 29, '60 Cahueng a ···-·····513 Hollywoo
Los Angeles .......:77
Kapantai s, .Edith ···-·····Feb. 14, '55 Ionic ···-··-··········520
Kapp, Carne
(Vorsang er) ···-······-···July 16, '49 San Jose···-········· 10 San Jose ·······-·····89
Diego ···-······· 79
Keller, Agnes C. -···-·-··.Nov. 19, '59 Silver Gate ........296 San
Kent, Evaline C...........Sept. 6, '55 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ...... 77
d ·······-···76
Kirtlan, Minnie E ....- ...Jan. 3, '58 Franklin .....•........ 143 Courtlan
Valley ..........85
Kramer, Alice L. ···-·····Jun e 4, '55 Mill Valley ........356 Mill
...... 86
Krejcik, Rose ·······-··--..Feb. 16, '58 Fairmoun t ···-·····435 San Francisco
Lafitte, Marie V. • ........Dec. 15, '60 LaParfai te .......... 17 San Francisco ......82
Lagomars ino,
Creek ........86
Henrietta ···-··-···········Sept. 2, '58 Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter
..........87
Rosa
Santa
57
····-··
Rosa
Santa
'48
ar.15,
Lane, Edith B. -·-··-·····M
........73
Angeles
Los
405
.......•.•......
Moneta
'49
5,
Sept.
..........
Larter, Gertrude
...... 77
Francisco
San
388
............
s
Parnassu
'58
20,
Lawrence , Irma A. ···-···Oct.
Hollywoo d ..........69
Lee, Zida F.• ···-······-····-Mar. 3, '61 Silver Trowel •...415
2
Lent, Elizabeth D. - ....Sept. 29, '59 Yerba Buena ....403 Oakland ·······-·······8
90
Logan, Alice M.• .•........May 17, '61 Hanford ..............279 Hanford ................
21 Honolulu ..............79
Look, C. Maude ·······-···Mar. 16, '59 Hawaiian ............375
San Francisco ......83
Luscomb e, Laura C.....June 29, '58 Richmon d ..........
Sacramen to .......... 78
20
ton···-···
Washing
'60
Sept.12,
..
K.•
McAdam, Emma
........83
McCann, Elizabeth J ...Aug. 4, '59 Manches ter ........585 Los Angeles
Santa Rosa ..........86
McCord, Zidana M. ···-···Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Atascade
ro .•........85
McDaniel, Elizabeth ....Apr.12, '58 Atascade ro ........493
McDowell, Alice M.....Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ·············-·85
Mciver, Ella W .............July 9, '48 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ·······-·····86
·583 Wasco ···-···············78
McNairn, Verda A. ......July 29, '58 Wasco ···-············
........83
MacAllis ter, Emily ......Aug.19, '52 Larchmo nt ........614 Los Angeles
................82
Mackenzi e, May W .....June 30, '41 Bay View ............401 Oakland
Angeles ........ 98
MacRead y, Mattie D.....Jan.10, '53 So. Calif.............278 Los Francisco
......72
Marshall, Lucy M.• ......June 29, '61 Occident al .......... 22 San
rg ..........96
Healdsbu
···-·······123
e
Sotoyom
'56
9,
Mar.
.....
W
Annie
,
Matthews
d ............88
Mayfield, Mary ............ Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmon
Obispo.. 78
Luis
San
209
....
David's
King
'55
14,
Sept.
...............
M
Lulu
Meck,
51
......
wn
·82
Illinoisto
···········-····
'41
25,
Jan.
Colfax
.
................
L
Ivy
Merrill,
52 Los Angeles ........ 78
Miller, Catherine E .....Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ···-·-·······3
no ..84
Mitchell, Maude N.......Dec. 20, '54 San Bernardi no..348 San Bernardi
82
Murrell, Catherin e ·--...Jan. 12, '52 John Marshall .. 636 Beverly Hills ......
···-···76
Beach
Long
327
........
Beach
Long
'59
7,
ly
···-·······Ju
Asenath
Nestle,
Neumann , Frances G...July 9, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ···-···82
Nicolaus, Erma M.
(Robinson) ···-············.Jan. 27, '59 Unity -·-·-··-··-· 368 Glendale --·········68
Nielsen, E. Ollie• ........June 10, '61 Military ..............570 San Francisco ...... 77
Nielsen, Este M. ···-··-···Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland --·-·······8 3
Nussbaum , Ida ...........•..Feb. 23, '60 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland -··············82
Olsen, Minnie -··-······.M ay 28, '52 Humbold t .......... 79 Eureka ·······-··----78
Olsh, Sophia ···-··-········.Apr. 25, '60 Union .................. 59 Sacramen to ·····-···75
Pace, May E. (Taforo) ..Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz -···--70
Peacock, Katie C.........Mar. 25, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland -·····-·······88
4
~erger, Eva ·······-·········Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ···-··-···336 Oakland ···-··-··--·8
···-·····82
~an, Stella May Aug. 3, '59 Signal -·-·············543 Long Beach
Hercules ···········-··· 78
Pfe" er, Nina F •.......- .. .Mar.17, '58 Pinole ..................353 Los
Angeles ... _...87
~tner, Eva H. ·······-·······Jan. 27, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42
itts, Adelaide S •..........Feb. 5, '54 Mendocin o ···--·179 Mendocin o ···-·····81

398

PRO CEED INGS OP THE

Age
Tow n
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
··92
···-···
1 San Rafa el
Mar in ···-·············19
Pren tice, Rose ..............June 30, '45
Dieg o ............70
San
296
........
Gate
er
Silv
'57
19,
......86
Pruc ha, Velm a F ...........Feb.
Cali forn ia .......... 1 San Fran cisc o
......82
Purc ell, Susi e M ....- .......Oct. 19, '57
o
cisc
Fran
San
22
..
........
tal
iden
Rab y, Gert rude L. ........Dec .17, '57 Occ
Reas oner , Mar ie D.
.. 632 San Dieg o ............79
y 21, '48 Nor mal Heig hts 336 Oak land ···-···········90
(Jeft s) ···········-···-········Jul
31, '56 Frui tval e ..........
Resa u, Lue lla B .............Mar ..16,
·····-·······77
··· 12 Nap a ···-···ch
You nt ···-··········....
........74
Rob erts, Vera M.• ........Dec 6, '60
Lon g Bea
699
lls
Kno
y
Bixb
'61
May
........
Rog ers, M. Isab el•
Fran cisc o ......87
San
·169
-··-··
·······
'56
ion
6,
.
Miss
Sept
....
5
Rose, Mar y ................
..........136 San Fran cisc o ···--789
Apr. 16, '58 Paci fic ................
San Fran cisc o ......
Ross, Jean ···-·· ·······B.··-··.
545
....
than
Jona
'54
12,
e
..Jun
..80
Rou nds, Flor ence
ia ................537 Holl ywo od ........
Russ ell, Syb il A.• ........Sept . 17, '60 Utop
Ang eles ....... .77
Los
392
..
........
e
Lak
t
Wes
Ryd er, Bert ha ···-·············Oct. 17, '58 Croc kett .............. 139 San Fran cisc o ......91
'54
od ···-·······86
Salt er, Juli a A. ···-·· -··-·J an. 5,
5, '58 Ingl ewo od ..........421 Ingl ewo
Sand ers, Edit h P ...... ...Apr .. 2,
....489 Berk eley ..............84
........
Bay
East
'59
Mar
........
A.
y
....65
Scho oley , Mar
ta Ana ..........241 San ta Ana ..............
76
........
Scov el, Mar ie M ...........July 4, '58 San
Alto
Palo
346
....
14, '52 Palo Alto ........
Seag rave , Edn a R. ···-·· ·May
olul u ....•.........83
Hon
9
····40
···-···
u
olul
'36
Hon
1,
Feb.
....
Seym our, Lau ra ........
..............90
'37 Haw aiian ···-······· 21 Hon olul u
Shan ks, Ella ..................Sept .. 1,
Los Ang eles .. 80
W.
373
..
eles
Ang
Los
W.
'57
2,
Aug
Shen ick, Elea nor ..........
Oak land ·······-··-··-..87
t. 23, '59 Live Oak ·······-··· 61
ame nto ........ 83
Sibl ey, Mab el L. ···-····-Sep
Sacr
40
........
nto
ame
Sacr
'56
25,
Sloc umb , Mab el W ...... .Apr. 6, '60
······-·······91
land
Oak
61
....
........
Oak
Smi th, Grac e M. • ........Sept ..16, '61 Live
·······-··---75
land
Oak
568
.......
.
.
Blvd
Park
Smi th, Haz el L.• ..........Mar
·······-·······77
land
Oak
188
......
........
ay 26, '54 Oak land
-·····-·····81
n
erto
Smi th, Mar y ···········-·······M
Full
533
..
........
........
Azu re
Smi th, Myr tle M ...... ...Nov. 15, '56
···-·········87
dale
Fern
193
....
........
'58 Fern dale
···-·····88
Snow den, Jean E .......... .Dec.. 29,
eld
ersfi
Bak
224
........
'37 Bak ersfi eld
Sny der, Ama nda G .....Apr 13,
ey.. 235 Ced arvi lle ............80
Vall
rise
Surp
'60
6,
May
..
.......
G
e
cisc o ...... 77
Spal ding , Oliv
Dori c ....................216 San Franer
Stap ff, Mar y S ....... ........Mar. 29, '60
.. 523 Bell flow ............75
........
er
flow
Bell
'60
.19,
Mar
........
Stei gelm an, Joan
d ·······-···80
Alph a ..................431 Rich mon
Stev enso n, Juli a M .......Aug .17, '57
Los Ang eles ........89
.458
.
e
Orm
S.
ry
Hen
'58
21,
.
.Aug
..
Stitt , Cora M..............
...... 30 San Fran cisc o ......82
·Oct. 29, '59 Gold en Gate
Stol le, Luc y E. ···········-··
.... 166 San Fran cisc o ......76
........
lsior
Exce
'59
5,
.
Stro mbe rg, Lau ra A .....Mar 2, '37 Vac avill e ............134 Vac avill e ···-··- ··-·8 7
Stro ud, Lau ra L ...........June 1, '51 Apo llo ..................396 Alam eda ·······-·---82
........86
Swa in, Sara h C.............Feb.. 12,
'59 Los Ang eles ...... 42 Los Ang eles o......79
Swe eney , Sada S ...... ...Sept
cisc
Fran
San
22
..
........
tal
29, '58 Occ iden
Tho mps on, Abb ie V.....Nov..16,
dro ........90
'33 Ede n ···-···············133 San Lean
Tho mps on, Celi a ..........Dec
........563 Los Ang eles ........81
Park
th
Sou
'58
28,
.
·······..Aug
Tier , Sofie -··············.......
54 San Fran cisc o ......73
..Nov. 30, '59 Pres idio ···-·· ······-3
Tim mer , Ann ie M
320 Los Ang eles ........85
........
Gate
th
Sou
'60
.12,
Aug
........
o ......84
Tow nsen d, Jess ie•
'57 King Solo mon 's ..260 San Fran cisc -·····81
Tun stea d, Rosa ..............July 5,
·······
eley
Berk
478
..
s
Oak
d
usan
'55
2,
Tho
.
.Apr
... _.82
Twe edy, Mar y L. .......
Seal Roc k ..........536 San Fran cisc o
Wai te, Flor ence ...- .......Dec. 9, '54 Verm ont
Ang eles ···-···83
Squ are ............515 Los ame
'54
nto .......... 90
War d, Nina E .................Dec. 27,
Sacr
20
........
ton
hing
Was
eles ........93
Web ster, Emm a ............Feb. 28, '55
Ang
Los
319
........
ck
enbe
Holl
Wells, Jenn ie A .............Dec. 27, '54 Mer idian ............669 Glen dale ..............83
ec. 29, '59
................87
Whe at, Dais y W. ·······-···D
8, '52 Bay View ............401 Oak land
o ......83
cisc
Whi ttak er, Ada H ....... ..Oct.. 18,
Fran
San
1
..
........
Cali forn ia
Wilk ie, Eva L. • ............Aug 3, '60
30 San Fran cisc o ......81
......
Gate
en
Gold
'46
.
.Nov
......
F
Will iams , Ann ie
cisc o ......87
'54 Cali forn ia ···-····· 1 San Fran
Wis ewe ll, Eve lyn ..........Feb.. 18,
Sacr ame nto ..........70
20
........
ton
hing
Was
'59
2,
Aug
.....
Wus ter, Yola nde V
..........86
'60 Nav al ···········-····· 87 Vall ejo ........
Wyn man , Ann ie E. • ....July. 5,
···-·· -·····84
eda
Alam
396
..
.......•
........
llo
'59
2,
Apo
Wyn man , Eva G ...........Sept

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

399

Dea ths- WO MEN -196 0·19 61
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Died
Name
86
··-···
-·-··land
Oak
Sequ oia ..............349
And erso n, Mar y D.........Jan. 27, '61 Bell ·······-·············483 Bell ······- ·-·-· ····- 81
'61
8,
Burg ner, Pear l A. ........Mar . 26,
Fres no ··············---80
'61 Cen ter ···-···········465
Jan.
Los Ang eles ........75
Busb y, Hatt ie 0 ..............May
358
....
e
Stat
en
Gold
'61
23,
............96
Byro n, Hor tens e P ......
Dun smu ir ·······----297 Dun smu ir
·······-··--85
t
Cam pbel l, Luc y A. ···-···Dec. 12, '60
epor
Lak
99
······1
···-···
tley
Har
'61
···-·····61
Cope, Hatt ie M .............. .May. 21,
Sem per Vire ns .. 552 Eure ka -······
......91
........
Croz ier, Mild red M .......Mar 28, '61
Jose
San
10
-·····
·······
Jose
'61 San
....76
........
d
mon
Dav is, Min nie B. ·······---.May 16,
Rich
502
........
........
or
'61 Harb
..90
........
nto
ame
Dod ge, Hele n L. ···-·······Jan.. 9,
Sacr
20
........
ton
hing
Was
Dott , Edn a 0 ................ .Dec 5, '60 Wils hire ···-····-···445 Los Ang eles ........76
uly 16, '60
..........90
Eno, Dais y Mae ···-·· ·····J
Holl ywo od ..........355 Holl ywo od···-··
-··-·8 5
Ford , Ada L ...................Jan. 17, '61
u
olul
Hon
21
....
........
Haw aiian
Fren ch, Lyd ia J .............May 5, '61 Stan islau s ·····-··.206 Mod esto ···-·- ··--- 81
12, '61
Gera rd, Mar tha J ...... ...May 29,
lo Park -·-··· ··96
'60 Men lo Park ........651 Men
uly
Hull , Agn es ···-···············J
Vict orvi lle ·······---.91
634
..
........
lle
orvi
Vict
'60
20,
Oct.
...
ame nto ..........71
Jone s, Edit h J ..............
9, '61 Cap ital City ......499 Sacr
Kote rmen , Lois ............Feb. 30,
San Luis Obis po.. 96
209
....
id's
Dav
King
'60
Oct.
....
..........85
Lati mer , Hele n B .......
Hum bold t .•.......... 79 Eure ka ...............•
..80
Mac Kinn on, Ivy M ...... .Jan. 9, '61
........
nd
Orla
265
........
........
nd
Orla
'60
..............97
Moore, Alli e V. ···-·······Aug. 1,
eley
Berk
·268
·······
···-···
ant
Dur
6, '60
O'Do nnel l, Flor ence .... Aug ..14,
om ·······-··-····-87
'60 Nato ma .............. 64 Folsland
···-······-··-99
Pow ell, Mar y W........... Sept
Oak
44
-·····2
···-··
traz
M ....... ..........Feb . 18, '61 Alca
Pres lar, Ila
Rob ertso n,
84
gan Hill ......463 Mor gan Hill __
- ....88
o
Ann ette M.................Aug . 14, '60 Mor
c:Uc
Fran
San
393
........
........
er
Bald
Rud ebec k, Ann a T...... .Jan. 15, '61 Gold en Rule ..... .479 San Jose ---·· ··-8 0
Sand bo, Mau de R. ........Oct. 2, '60
ta -·--· ·-··- -90
15, '61 Arca ta ···-···········106 Arca
Scot t, Emm a L ...............Apr. 28,
12 Nap a ······· -··-·· --···8 2
..
........
........
nt
You
'61
Apr.
..
......83
Sout hgat e, Sara L .......
Parn assu s ............388 San Fran cisc o
Tyle r, A. Jose phin e ....Aug . 11, '60 Alca traz ·······-·····244 Oak land ···-- ----- 91
'60
2,
Oct.
Wat ts, Olli e V .................Feb. 28, '61 Park ................. _.449 San Fran cisc o ......80
·····7 7
Will iams , Eda Mar ie ....
Lan cast er ···-·······437 Lan cast er -·-··With am, Bess T. ···-·· ···Ju ly 13, '60
1
WIT HDR A WA LS-W OM EN- 1960 -196
Age
No.
Town
Admitted
Lodge
N 811/le
__ _,_,_ .87
dena
Pasa
2
···27
'60
···-··8,
Bart lett, Eva R. ···-·- ·-···S ept. '60 Pasa dena
16 Lind say ···-·· -··--72
Lind say -·-·········4614
Edw ards , Elea nor ···-·· ·July 2,
nt ........
hmo
'61
Los Ang eles ···-···76
Larc
9,
e
·Jun
···-··
ica
Jess
,
nard
Stan

400

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Dep arted During the Year , July 1, 1960 to June
Boy s--8

Cl-llLDREN AT COV INA HOM E
June 30, 1961

Girl&---13
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
··15
···-··-·
Nuys ............450 Van Nuys
Alliso n, Patri cia .......- ...Apr. 2, '58 Van
Los Ange les..15
W.
677
.-...
Arts
al
Liber
'56
29,
Sept.
..........
Arch inal, Kare n
-···13
Arca dia ···-··-·····547 Arca dia ·-··-··
Casw ell, Rene e ............April 5, '57
..............16
spur
Lark
556
.......
.........
ax
Fairf
'54
11,
Aug.
Cox, Geor gia ................
................ 60 Quin cy ·······-······--11
Cruik shank , Starl ana .. Sept. 14, '59 Plum as
..........464 San Franc isco ...... 16
Mann , Mary ..................Mar. 5, '55 Alta Vistas ···-···243 Hayw ard ..............10
lyptu
Ritch ie, Lind a ···-··········.Dec. 13, '58 Euca
Jame s A.
Fosh ay ............641 Los Ange les ···--1 3
Wern er, Beve rly ..........Sept. 3, '57 Jame
s A.
ay ............641 Los Ange les ···-···15
Fosh
'57
3,
Sept.
...
.........
a
Dian
er,
Wern
·······-·········684 Tron a ·······-······-···16
a
Tron
'55
18,
.May
.
..........
a
Willi ams, Lind
········684 Tron a ········ ···---· -15
···-·····
a
Tron
'55
18,
May
.
.........
Willi ams, Shar on
684 Tron a ···-··-··-···-·-15
.........
.........
a
Tron
55
18,
May
.
.........
ey
Shirl
Willi ams,
291 Santa Paula ........15
......
a
Paul
Santa
'53
10,
Oct.
........
ara
Yung ling, Barb
year.
nt
•Indi cates admi ssion durin g the curre

June 30, 1961
Boy tr-25
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
. Name
12
........
les
Ange
Los
677
......
Arts
al
Liber
Arch inal, Steve n ......... .Nov. 12, '56 R. E. Dolle y ......616 Seal Beac h ....•..... 17
Barra cloug h, Willi am .. June 18, '55
···-··-···14
India n Well s ......691 Ridg ecres t.........
Clink scale , Fred ........... .Jan. 6, '57 Fairf
..-10
................556 Lark spur
ax
'55
7,
Sept.
.........
.........
is
Denn
Cox,
556 Lark spur ···-··- ··-·12
.......
.........
ax
'54
Fairf
11,
Aug.
.........
.........
e
Wayn
Cox,
................ 60 Quin cy .................. 8
Cruik shank , Sidne y ....Sept. 14, '59 Plum as ···-··-··.290 Los Ange les ···-···17
Gate
East
'56
27,
an.
Faulk , Robe rt ·······-·······J
................13
Oakl and ·········-···188 Oakl and
Fulle r, Dona ld, Jr.......Sept. 12, '59 Morn
ton .......•......16
Stock
68
....
Star
ing
'55
8,
.Apr.
......
Hoar d, Jame s .........
............308 Monr ovia .............. 7
Laur sen, Davi d ............Mar. 25, '59 Monr ovia
..........464 Daly City ···-···· -··10
Vista
Alta
'57
Mann , Geor ge ···-······-···Jan. 1,
.464 Daly City .........- ..14
.........
Vista
Alta
'55
5,
Mann , Thom as ............Mar.
Murr ay, Davi d
............272 Pasad ena -·-·········11
Edwa rd ......................June 17, '61 Pasad ena
Murr ay, Dani el
Pasad ena -······· ··-11
17, '61 Pasad ena ···-·······272
Thom as -·-···· ········ ····Jun e 23,
.............. 64 Folso m ···-··- --··-·1 1
ma
Nato
'54
July
..
.........
.........
Jerry
Orth,
h ..15
Seafa ring ............708 Newp ort Beac
Reitz , Larry • ·······-·········Jan. 27, '61
s ........243 Hayw ard .............. 10
lyptu
Euca
'58
13,
Dec.
...
.........
as
Thom
ie,
Ritch
is Drak e ..376 S. San Franc isco.. 16
Scott , Andr ew• ···-·······Sept. 11, '60 Franc
................. .277 Selm a ···-··-······-···15
a
Selm
'58
8,
.Apr.
......
.........
Stroh , Robe rt
Vista ...... 655 Long Beac h ···-·····14
e
Mont
'54
21,
Nov.
...
.........
Warr ick, Bruc e
Vista ...... 655 Long Beac h ···-·····11
e
Mont
'55
13,
Mar.
...
Warr ick, Davi d .........
Vista ......655 Long Beac h ..........16
e
Mont
'54
21,
Nov.
........
Warr ick, Doug las
......655 Long Beac h ···-·····12
Vista
e
Mont
'54
21,
.Nov.
Warr ick, Robe rt ...........
......291 Santa Paula ........18
a
Paul
Santa
'53
0,
Oct.1
Yung ling, Doug las ........
. 648 San Bern ardin o .. 8
.........
scus
Dama
'59
1,
Mar.
McCo rmick , John •• ....
(Leav e of Abse nce, 2-6 to 7-23, 1960)
*Indi cates admi ssion durin g the curre nt year.
••Lea ve of Abse nce, porti on of year.

401

30, 1961

Age
the time
(at
arted
De
tted
Admi
Name
deplartur8e)
'53 ···············-······ · 6-f7-61 ···········-··-··of
........Aug. 95, '55
·········
r,W~ilcl~ard• .........
Farmde
.Apr.
18
........
.........
oar , 1 iam• (Pat)
.........
61..
6-23······
·········
..Mar. 15' '52 ·········
Kilpa trick, C. M.
······ 6-17-61...................- .......14
·········
·········
•
15'
Mar.
.....
G
d
Davi
trick,
Kilpa
52
······ 6-17-61...................- ..- ...14
Miceli, Mike • ..................Oct. 28' '54 ··················
······ 6-19-61. ...........................17
·········
·········
'54
23'
···July
········
···-··Orth, Tom•
······ 6-19-61............................17
·········
·········
'52
20'
.Aug
Larry
Platt
·············· 1-28 -61............................ 15
Wyli~ Kenn elli•- ··-······ Jun· 18• •52 --········
······················ 6-17-61........... - ..- ..- .. - ...17
e ,
···-·····
•

H

Girl &-5
Age

~
~·
departure)
of

Ad
Departed
~
mt ~
8
7-29-60
·
·-··-··
········
'59--·
9,
Sept.
...
.........
:nderso~ Vera
6- 3-61::::::::::::::::::::::::::11

· -·o-··A-···
·---·c·L
·····-······.Aug. 85.:5sa...8
~er, usanLee
s troh,
·········· . . .) 1-28-61 ···························· 11
........Apr. '
Janit a

A)
S tro , Patri cia Ann Apr 8 '58 ·········· (LO
9
· · · 1-28-61...........
Stroh , Susa n Kay ......:::".Apr: 9,• •58 .........
.(L.0. A.) 1-28-61....... _..::::::: ::::::1 3
•Indi cates gradu ates.

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

HOME STATISTICS

MASON IC HOMES CONTR IBUTIO NS

Number of residents as of June 30, 1961:
Men
Decoto Home:
134
............
Residents, July 1, 1960..............
40
......
..............
..............
Admitte d ..............
31
..
..............
n............
Withdraw
and
Died
Residents. June 30, 1961........................ 143

Covina Home:
Residents, July 1, 1960.......................... 29
5
Admitte d ................................................
9
.......
n...........
Graduat ed and Withdraw
25
....
..............
1961......
30.
June
s,
Resident

403

Women
219
36
35
220

18
0
5
13

Total
353
76
66
363
47
5
14
38

CONTRIBUTIOHS TO SPECIAL RESERVES
RESERVES FOR A.DDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
BST.lTES:

PER CAPITA CosT

Covina Home:
Cost of Mainten ance................................................ $221,041.92
45
Average number of residents..................................
6
18,420.1
.
...........
..............
month
per
Average operating cost
605.56
.
...
..............
..............
..............
day
per
cost
Average
4,912.04
Average cost per child per year............................. .
409.18
.
Average cost per child per month...........................
13.46
.
...
..............
..............
Average cost per child per day
32
.
...
..............
..............
es
employe
of
Average number

•

3;133.39
120,000.00
250.22
5,ooo.oo
1,095.69

38,711.;55

12,511.86
7,132.60

COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE
ESTATES:

Statemen t of Per Capita Costs (Statistic al) for the Fiscal Year
Ending June 30, 1961 :

Decoto Home:
Cost of Mainten ance............................................... . $804.907.76
362
Average number of residents ................................. .
67,075.65
Average operatin g cost per month ......................... .
2,205.27
Average cost per day ............................................. .
2,223.50
.
...........
..............
Average cost per resident per year
185.29
Average cost per resident per month ...... c...••••••••••
6.09
.
...........
..............
day
per
resident
per
cost
Average
160
Average number of employees............................... .

Charles Dettman (#637)
Alberto. Brvin (#57)
Seymour Friaelle (#494)
Henry Robert Glaw (#399)
Mae E. Kierski (#120)
Sallie Ann Lyon (#289)
Belle McKenzie (/18)
J~hn Tonningae n (#144)

MISC.:

Karl G. Ayres (#17 3)
Carrie A. Beckman (#389)
Kate A. Cad;r
John X. Campbell (#633)
George A. Davies (#461)
Sarah C. Diem (#458)
Jacob Haaa (#243)
Carrie H. Hambleton (#144)
Lorenzo H. Haskin (1246)
John A. l•llett (#592)
Ichatioua (A.) H. Knoll (#419 J.rkanaas)
•
Dani el M. .Leng ( #2 90)
Jessie B. Lyon (/1109)
Alice & William A. Mcintosh (#445)
P. W. Navhall
.Hilda L. Oppenheimer (1276)
Madison T. Ovens (1278)
Foster s. Poet
Samuel Thomas Poteet (125)
Louis Henr;r Raybold (#319)
Annie J. Roberta
Adeline and Hovard Stevens (Trust)
John c. Wickland (1494)
Henri L. Woodland (#535)
Fra.ucea M. Young

c. c. Allen

Carl Allison
Theodore Andrews
Mrs. Ambrose Bowyer
Call:tornia Divieion o:t Highways, Design 3 Club
Mr. & Mra. Clarence R. Dorsey
Joseph Gentry
Matt s. Hart
V. .c . Hinri chaeu

1, 798.42
2,000.00
1,000.00
150.00
1,068.67
15,667.92
200.00
5,944.21
23,658.57
1,842.92
1,520.00
453.92
5,ooo.oo
447.40
359,184.41
11,627.85
14,070.99
37,960.62
9.88
1,000.00
1,000.00

Nigel Keep
Ted c. Little
Metropoli tan State Hospital
Employees
Mrs. Meryle c. Michael
Paci:tic Presa Employees
Hr. & Mrs. Stanley Peterlin
J. D. Shaver
s. o. Snow
Union Hardware Bmplo;rees

STUDENTS• LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND
MISC.r

Mrs. Virginia Brown
Cali:tornia State Cra!t

157.65

250.00
250.00
10,000.00

Loyalty Lodge #629
Mias Elizabeth Milla

404

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHRISTY.AS AND l!llTERTAINMENT RESERVE (Continued)

DECOTO SP~CI.lL RESERVE
ESTATES:

Iarl G. Ayres (il7J)
Ja11es Henry Blythe (H216)
Wilbur L. Camp (#194)
Sarah c. Diem (#458)
Albert z. Eddy (#260)
Oscar 1i. Hedlund (#435)
Jeosie B. Lyon (#109)
Hilda L. Oppanheimer (#278)
Jesse F. Pattee (#78)
.Annie J. Roberts
George c. Rolleri (126)
Frank F. Smith (1259)
Hovard and Adeline 8teyene (Trust)
John c. Wiokland (1494)
Henry L. Woodland (f535)
Frances M. Young

MISC.'

llational Heat Treating Co111pan7

BST.lTES :

William Jones Cutler (1455)
Warren MarliaTe (#482)
John R. Peard (#87)

MISC.:

Bryant B. Bailey
Mrs. Marion Ruth Doermer
Jack c. Fr7
Nick Gust
Jacob Gonsava
!iark J. Hanna
Hibbard Medical and 8urgioal
Supply Coapany
A. Weston Judkins

•

1,798.42
200.00
lco.oo
lS,867.92
loo.oo
896.00
s,000.00
ll,621.es
2,000.00
1,000.00
5,000.00
8,275.72
757.65
250.00
250.00
l0,000.00

NE\i HOSPITAL RESERVE

Sacramento Xo. 3
leTada No. 6
Grass Valley No. 18
Franklin No. 20
Petaluma No. 22
Delta No. 27
Xapa No. 30
Santa Crua Jfo. 38
Visalia No. 44
Dixon J'o. 48
Ukiah No. 53
Jl:e7atone •o• 56
Col.uaa No. 60
RiTersida Bo. 67
Alameda No. 70
Crovn No. 72
Hanford No. 74

52.00
Soo.oo
soo.oo

Lodges - San Miguel #285
Bell 1483
Military SerTice 1570
McClellan Air Force Base
Masonic Club
8. Sidney Mort.on
Ralph R. Peete
Mr. & Jira. Edwin W. Randle
Merrit.t Rowland
Euel v. Vinoent.

The Trustees ot the Masonic Homes acknovladga vi th appreoiation the oontribut.ions receiTed !rom:

Sacramento No. 2
OroTille No. 5
NeTada No. 6
Marysville No. 7
San Joae No. 10
Chico No. 12
Colden Cate No. 16
NaTal No. 19
Watsonv1lle No. 22
St. Bernard No. 23
Colusa No. 2ii
Visalia lfl>. 26
San Luis Ob1apo No. 27

Ro7al Arch Mason Chapter••
Pomona Xo.. 76
Ferndale No. 78
Whittier No. 91
Palo Alto No. 93
Fideli t.7 No. 96
Santa Monica Bay No. 97
Redondo No. 101
Karin No. 102
I
Mill Valley !lo. ld8
Bl Cent.ro No. 109
South Pasadena No. 112
Sebaatofol No. 117
Huntington Park No. 127
Searchlight No. 133
Wil•ington No. 141
Rosertll• No. 146
HaTaau No. 148

Ro7al and Sal.act Mastera Councils:

$

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERT AillMENT RESERVE

ltnighta Templar ~ommanderies:

405

Pasadena No. 31
Mount Shasta No. 32
Ukiah !lo. 33
Napa No. 34
Southern California No. 37
Santa Crus •o. 44
Alhambra No. 48
Whi t.t.1er lo. 51
Auburn No. 52
Holl;rvood No. 56
Alameda No. 58
San Pedro No. 60
Santa Monica Ba7 No. 61
CalTaey No. 62

Sacramento No. l
Cal.irornia No. 2
Oakland No. 12
Paaadena No. 16
Santa Crus No. 17
.l.

& A. s. R. (Bodies):
J'reano
Oakland

Pomona No. 21
Siskiyou No. 24
Valley No. 27
Via alia No. 43
Harbor No. 45
Redwood Empire No. 46
Peninsula
Sacramento
San Jose

District Officers Aasociations1
42l.at Dhtrict
Sol.at District.
So!itt. District
511th Dist.riot
526th District
548th Diatrict
549th Dhtrict

552nd Diatrict
562nd Diet.riot
567th District
6o5th llhtrict
6l8th District
628th Diatrict
629th Diatrict

Kaaonio Clubat
Acacia Club, Loa Angeles
Bd1aon Masonic Club
Inaurance Square Club ot
But Bay

Long Beach Masonic Club

San Francisco Square Club
633 Club o! Ventura
Southern Pacific Square &
Co•paee Club, Monterey Park
Telephone Masonic Club of L.A.

Da Mola7 Chapters•
South Pasadena

Woodland

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHRISTMAS AllD ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE (Continued)
Job•a Daughters Bethels:
Selma

Perri• Ila. 16S
Richmond Ila. 214

Rainbow tor Girls Aesemblieas
Atascadero No. 2S
Cortland No, lOS

Gilro7 llo. 125
Orland llo, 37

Eaatern Star Chaptera1
Yolo No. 60
Ventura Ho, 79
Mercedes Ho. 126
King Solomon's No, 170
Miguelita Ila. 176
Santa Clara Ho, 195
San Ra!ael No, 215

Atascadero Ho. 344
Arbuokl• llo. 368
Thouaand Oake Bo. 375
Siloam !lo, 406
Meli ta !lo, 467
East Ba7 Matrone of 19$1
Golden Chain Aaaociation

Jlisoellaneoua 1
Louie Arsner
Mra. Harold Balden
Thel.lla Bloecher
Mre. A. Bumgardner
Mr•· E liaabeth Byrne
Jean L, Cochran
Mra. Rarr7 L. Colestock
Daleth Chapter, Order o!
Golden Slipper
Mr, & Mra. ilbert R, Dell,Sr •.
Chandler J. J'inn
l'i1her• a Gear & Machine Co,
¥.r. & Mrs. Stenle7 Fisher
Hall's Mattress Works
Della Harpster
Herald Bxprees

B. B, Herford
Mrs. Himee
Rohener Meat Compan7
Mrs. Jeea E. Jones
Mr. & Mra. Charles La D~
Xenneth B. McCullough
Par&11ount Picture• Corp.
Walter D, Pierce
Mr. & Mr•. Edvard Pope
Rudolph Madison Roeei
Thelma v. Slavin
v. · J.. Sloan
Mr. & Mra. Oaorge H. Spark•
Mr. & Mrs. John w. Weber
Harr7 W, Wernae, Jr,
S, P. Wienom

California Ho, l
Wastern Star !lo. 2
Tehama Ho. 3
Corinthian Ho, 9
San Joa e Ho, 10
Yount 110, 12
Nevada !lo, 13
Eureka 110. 16
La Par!aite Union Ho. 17
·san Joaquin No. 19
Waehington llo, 20
Hawaiian Ho, 21
Occidental !lo, 22
Madison Bo. 23
Trinit7 !lo, 27
Golden Gate !lo. 30
Gold Hill Ho, 32

San Diego Bo. 3.5
llovard Ho, 37
Santa Crus Ho, 36
Martinaz Ho, 41
Mount Moriah !lo, 44
Creacent !lo, 45
Texaa !lo, 46
Santa Rosa Ho. S7
Union !lo. 58
Pluma• llo. 60
Live Oak Ho, 61
Bnterprille Bo. 70
Yolo Ho, 81
Vesper No, 84
Naval Ho. 87
St. Helena Ho. 93
"foaemite !lo, 99

J.odgUI

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

407

CHRISTMAS AllD :ZNTERTAINMEl'IT RESERVE (Continued)
Lodgu (Continued)s
Cla7 llo. 101
Lexington No, 104
J.rcata !lo, 106
Pa;laro No, 110
Chico No, 111
Eden No. 113
Concord No, 117
J'idelit7 llo. 120
Alamo 110. 122
La!a7ette Ro, 126
Beraann No. 127
Viaalia No, 128
Bioolaue llo, 129
Woodbridge 110. 131
Pacitio No, 136
·crockett No. 139
lranklin No. 143
Oriental No, 144
Bel River lio, 147
Molino No, lSO
Woodland Ho, 156
Bxcelsior No. 166
J.lameda No, 167
Redvood Cit7 No, 166
Miedon No. 169
J.ntioch llo, 175
Petaluma Ho, 180
Xeith No. 187
Oakland No, 188
Marin No, 191
Ferndale Ho, 193
Mountain View No. 194
Buoke79 llo. 195
San Simeon No. 196
Wilmington No. 198
Bartley llo. 199
Silve7rllle 110. 201
Contidence Ho. 203
Stanielaus llo. 206
Rio Vista Ho, 208
Xing David'• llo, 209
Friendship No. 210
San aanito !lo. 211
South San lrancisco llo. 212
Oak Grove No. 215
Montere7 No, 217
Hoa aic !lo, 218
Speranza Italiana No, 219
Dovne7 llo. 220
11170 !lo. 221
Roseville Ho, 222
Bakere!ield Bo, 224
BrooklTD Ho, 22S
San Mateo No. 226
J.theu Ho, 226

Bills 1'err7 No, 236
Guadalupe 110. 237
Coluea !lo, 240
Santa Ana Xo. 241
Laurel No. 24S
Fresno No. 247
Landmark No, 253
Reading 110. 2S4
Penrh7n llo, 2S8
Evergreen No. 259
Tuscan Ho, 261
Lompoo No, 262
Reeperian !lo, 264
Orland Ho, 265
Galt llo. 267
Olive Branch 110. 269
Pasadena ?lo, 2 72
J.rro70 !lo. 274
llan!ord Ho, 219
Madera llo. 2~0
Mount Shasta llo, 281
South West llo. 283
San Miguel Ho, 265
l'aao Robles llo. 286
Elsinore No. 289
East Gate No. 290
Orange Grove No. 293
Libert7 llo. 299
Redlands No, 300
Ontario No, 301
Azusa No, 305
J.shlar llo. 306
Temesoal llo, 314
Horvallc No. 315
J.l1aal Ho, 321
Corona !lo, 324
Needle• No, 326
Roidondo No, 328
Pacific Grove Ho, 331
7ruitvale Ho, 336
Carquinea llo. 337
Starr Xing Ho. 344
Palo J.lto llo. 346
KcXinle7 No, 347
San Bernardino No, 348
Sequoia Ho, 349
Palestine Ho. 351
Pinole No, 3S.3
Hill Valle7 Ho, 3S6
San Francisco Ho, )60
Chari t7 Ho. 362
South Paaadena No. 367
Amit7 No, 370
le Progres de L•Ocaanle Bo, 371
Jewel llo, 374

408

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE (Continued)
Lodges (Continued) •
Richaond No. ) 7S
Francia Drake No. J76
Arteaia No. 377
Mizpah No. )78
Fillmore No. 379
Highland Park No. )62
Bl Centro Ro. )84
Dinuba No. J8S
Parnaasua No. · 368
Balder !lo. )9)
Rising Light !lo. 397
Burli·ng ..e No. 400
Bravley No. li02
Yarba Buena No. 403
Moneta No. 405
La Meaa !lo. 407
Honolulu No. 409
Charter Rook llo. 410
Parris lfo. 411
SilTer !rowel Ro. 41S
Lindsay llo. 416
Jlidva,y llo. 426
llui Dimas No. 428
Pittsburg No. 429
Alpha No. 431
Maricopa No. 434
Fairmount lio. 43S
Standard No. 440
Coronado No. 441
Blackmer No. 442
lorrance No. 447
Mount Diablo No. 448
Park No. 449
Mount Oao No. 460
Argonaut No. 461
Paul ReTere lio. li62
Libertaa· No. 466
CulTer City llo. 467
Rockridge No. 468
'Delta No. 471 .
Blythe llo. 473
Temblor lio. 477
?housand Oaks No. 478
Golden Rule llo. 479
¥.t. DaTidaon Ho. 481
Bell No. 463
Chowchilla No. 465
Caledonia No. 486
Patterson No. 488
East Bay No. 489
Woodstock llo. 491
Aoorn No. 494 ·
~tascadero lio. 493

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE (Continued)
Lodges (Continued) :

Capital City llo. 499
RooeeTelt Ro. Soo
Harbor No. S02
Point No. SoJ
Seaside llo. So4
Bl Segundo llo. So?
Cupertino No. SlO
SunnyTala No. Sll
Cahuenga No. SlJ
Argonne No. Sl 4
Taft No. Sl6
La Jolla No. Sl6
Piedmont !lo. 521
George Waehincton llo. 52S
Ba7 City No. 526
CoTenant llo. S27
Queen Beach lfo. S4o
Henry Morse Stephens Bo. S41
San Cabriel No. 546
Seaport No. SSo
Lakeahore llo. SSl
ileaper Virena Bo. SS2
Point Firmin No. SS6
East San· Diego No. S61
s. w. Hackett No. S74
El Cajon Valley No. S76
ProgreesiTe No. S78
·santa Karia No. 580
Seourity lfo. 581
Compau Ro.S90
ruJunga No. S92·
SerTic e !lo. S94
Alexander Grab&• Bell No. 59S
Guardian !lo. S96
Dimond No. 60 3
ProTident lio. 609
i
<
Jleptune No. 619
Point L011a lio. 620
RiTeraide No. 6)5
Paliaadee lio. 637
Indian Rock No. 638
Alta Loaa lfo. 64)
A. F. B~ Irvin lo. 64S
Damaeoue Ho. 646
La Brea No. 650
Baldwin Park Ho. 660
Malta llo. 661
laveah llo. 665
San Oorgonio Ho, 666
John P. Jar11an llo. 669
Far West Ho. 67)
Loe Cerritos Ho. 674
Moduto Ho. 67S

Willov Glen No. 676
Carmel No. 660
Dos Palos No. 661
01ldale No. 688
San Carlos llo. 690
Indian Walla Valley !fo, 691
San Lorenzo Valley No. 718
;!;etero No. 719
Mineral King No, 720
Saint John's No. 725
Su Juan !lo. 7)2

Peninsula No. 74S
Merced !lo. 749
Clayton Va1ley No, 7S6
West Covina No. 758
Lakeside No. 760
Josiah w. Roller No. 761
Tejon No. 77)
W&ikiki No. 774
Rolling Hills No. 781
Leland Stanford No. 784
American River No. 79S
Golden Valley No, 796

409

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ill

GENERAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Page
Standing Committees ............................................................................ 412
Special Committees .............................................................................. 415
Conrstitutional Boards .......................................................................... 417
Masonic Homes .................................................................................... 418
California Masonic Temple.................................................................. 419
Directors Masonic Clubhouses.............................. .............................. 419
Registration and Mileage Payments.................................................... 420
List of Constituent Lodges......................... ........................................... 464
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations.......................................... 484
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization............................ 489
List of Inspectors.................................................................................. 496
Foreign Grand Lodges.......................................................................... 499

.

Alphabetical Li.st of Lodges..................~---··· ········································· 504
CoNespondenc e Report Announcement.............................................. 511
Index ...................................................................................................... 512

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1961-1 962
STAND ING COMM ITTEE S

PAY OF MEMBERS

JURISPR UDENC E
John R. Moore (667)-···- ··---·-····-·- ··-·--········· ·453 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Oscar Lawler (290) ................................................800 Standard Oil Bldg.,
Los Angeles 15
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ...........................................................500 Sunset Ave., Oak View
Wakefield Taylor ('U) .... _.......................................................... 1270 Escobar St., Martinez
Leo E. Anderson (355) ·-·· - - -···--·--····--·-··············.700 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles
Henry C. Clausen (630)-- ····---·-- -···--·234 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco172
Joe L. Shell (35) -··---···--··········----····--··················--·····
Kalmia Pl., San Diego 4
Howard Langworthy (768) ............................................····---·2858
- ........17221 Sunburst, Northridge
Oharles J. Wright (61) ·······-----------·--------------····-------------··········----P.O. Box 1127, Richmond

POUCY AND GENERA L PURPOSES
Leslle E. Wood (609) .............................................................. 1808 "Q" St., Sacramento 14
Chester I-{, Warlow (247) _____ ____ 1007 Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 12
Ellsworth Meyer (677)-·····- ·····-····-····· ······-··-····-- 1415 Linda Ridge Rd., Pasadena
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) ·-·--·--·- ··-···--··- ---Cour t House, Oakland 7
Arthur Paulsen (27) ............................................................................Box 486, Weaverville
Otto Rohwer (3) ..............·-····-··········-············--··············-···Anglo Bank Bldg., Sacramento
Elbert W. Davis (571) .................---··················-···················2908 Russell St., Berkeley 5
Geor~ H. Himes (602) ..................................................P. 0. Box 36518, Los Angeles 36
John D. Holland (558) ................... ----·-----......................... 1425 Trotwood Ave., San Pedro

FINANC E
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528)
623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul F. Balck (144) ...................................................... 1844-28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Alfred H. Nicoll (481)_.
23370 Camino Hermosa. Los Altos
Atwill Morgan (636)
8874 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 46
Fred M. Clark (368).. 1662 San Gabriel Ave., Glendale 8
Lawrence Lamb (794l--··· -··
415 E. Orange Grove, Pasadena
Anthony J. Pucell (122) ........-·-··-··-······················-···············100 Hookston Rd., Concord

f~th

413

J"p,
Schlaegel (372)---. ....---·--·· ·-·--···-13 20 West 163rd St., Gardena
·
(191)__....._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 108 Belle Ave., San Rafael

~~

~d~pl

Gilb ew ·
on (42).....--- ---···----··. ..-··--.530 RoNIDOI'e Ave., Los Angeles
. ert Benoit (260) ....................................................530- lOth Ave., San Francisco 185
William D. Knight (437) ... _..._ ................................44037 No. Heaton Ave., Lancaster
~hard LeRoy Stephenson (494) ..............................33149 Basswood Ave., Union
City
raid A. Sharer (417)-·-··- ··--··········· ··· ..············--······5031 E. Lewis Ave., Fresno 2

CHART ERS
Herbert A. Huebner (445)

610 S. Broadway Los Angeles 14

~t:-;:th ~;26)---··-···-··--·--····-····-----·-··--···429 Center St., Taft
1

P ·
e ( 7)----- -·--···- ··-···--- -639 E. Valencia Burbank
Kenneth L. Hemphill (728)
__.1360 Newport Ave., Lon~ Beach 4
Wayne E. Burk (316)---·-·· ······-·-···-··· ·-·········-······ ·-·········248 S. McCall Rd., Sanger
Harold Simon ( 120) ·········-······················-··············-··········· 100 Alta St., San Francisco 11
Charles Warren (57) _ _ :......·-···--···-··· ··············· ·-·-933 Crest Dr.. Santa Rosa
Robert 0. West (26) .....................- ..........................---·-··-·-·-P .O. Box 752, Placerville
Martin Ortlieb (35) ······-·-·--········································-·····-··-··.2889 Palm St., San Diego
~rl L. Van Vorst (286) ........................................._.........................Box 233, Paso
Robles
omas G. Allan (481) ............................................75 Lynhurst Dr.. San Francisco 27

BY-LAWS
Thomas W. Thurman (505)---·· ···-···---- ·-·--1226 So. Ross St., Santa Ana
xlrl Bennehoff ( 1)
···--········-····...3701 Divlsadero St., San Francisco 23
Iden J. Fulkerson (35)---·- -·-·······-- -·--·.3205 Poe St.. San Diego
Clharles Becker ( 344 )-------- ···-·---··· -Courth ouse, South San Francisco
Herbert H. Cooper (6J4)---·-·· -·········-····- ·····-··1954 Glendon Ave.. Los Angeles 25
Bernard H. Raab (520) _____________________ 1053
So. La Cienega Blvd., Los Angeles 35
Horace W. Orear, Jr. (1) •...•- ..---··-·--· ---131 Havenside Dr., San Francisco 27

CORRES PONDEN CE

GRIEVA NCES

~ewco~~deb (614) ......Superlor Court, Dept. 64, 111 No. Hill St., Los Angeles 12
~e
• urc , Jr. (650) ..............._ .....--.-··-··-···......417 S. Hill St.. Los Angeles 13

William B. Neeley (743)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1429 Virginia Ave., Glendale
Byron C. Morton (259).·-· ·--···---·- ······--···· ··-···P. 0. Box 507, Riverside
Folger Emerson (61 )---·-·--··········-···--- -···-···-·-20 01 Magellan Dr.. Oakland 11
Frank B. Peebles (556) ···············--······-····························.31 Maywood Way, San Rafael
William N. Bowie, Jr. (547)---··-······················-········-········2014 Baldwin Ave., Arcadia

~:c.f.t~~~,~~~2")'-·-·········--·--····-···--·······-·..·······-i·ti~.°#~~~~~~

~:~ ~.1W:i1!~!~9···(344>==~==······················--·······P:-ci·&~·707~8~!~~~:,ny

CREDEN TIALS
Thos. F. Mason (198)---··· ···-·-·--·-·- --··----220 No. Glendale Ave., Glendale 6
Don E. Berry (568) ...........- ..............................................- ................... P. 0. Box 208, Lodi
Emil W. Trefts (48) ...................................--···-··-····-···········126 Dake Ave., Santa Cruz
Jesse M. Few (622) .....................---·-··-·-····················3406 Laclede Ave., Los Angeles 39
Harry F. Lutticken (166) ..................-·············-···-·····1000 Rivera St., San Francisc<? 16
Joseph Robrecht, Jr. (41) .......-·-············-······-····-····--····-·-···3521 Geneva St., Martinez
William Rex Hoover (672)--......- - ·
Boat 934, Laguna Beach

Jo n Wullschleger (550).·-·········-·························-·····45 Cleveland St., San Francisco 3

Robert W. Oblath (506)
4148 Stansbury, Sherman Oaks
Maurice Cllerry (H0)-·-···· -·-·-·-··-·· --·-··-·-·-. .3650 Redwood Rd., Oakland

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVI TIES
Lowell H. Beckendorf (462)-- -------3 939 Ortega St., San Francisco 22
Bernie J. Katz ( 120)
·---···-1 864- 28th Ave., San Francisco 22
William Van Ornum (374)-- --··---·- -·748 Wisconsin St., San Francisco 7
Tobias Troneum (376 l--··-·-····-··-···-·····-············-···2595 - 28th Ave., San Francisco 16
Randolph Rosso (30) ...•.·-···--·······-·····-······-··········--·-..270 Turk St., San Francisco
Lester M. Petterson (360)·-··-·······-····················--2066- 34th Ave., San Francisco 16
Edward W. Quon (673)-- -··-·--· ·
150 Grant Ave., San Francisco 8

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

4li

il5

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SPECIAL COMMITT EES
LODGE FINANCING

MASONIC EDUCATIO N

57
--31S..B S. Reno St., Los Angeles
(320)
,_A Gr
605 Los An 1 12
·······----··
Mar" · een
~::~g
St.,
~~·l~a~iforcla
···········-···City
(467)---··-···········
Jr.
Hargrave,
Herbert
George W. Sturm (254)-··-····························-···~7 s. Wilton Pl., Los Angeles 5
-··--··-···-··--·---=tciQo Mills Building, San Francisco 4
John T. Bond (355)
Ivan Crase (435) ....----··················· ·············- 435 Pacific Hi hway, San Diego 10
21
i
Ag s F
Glen C Holbert (441)-·········-··-· ····················- O
- 34th ve., ans rvanc SCON
Arthur. s Becker (344) ·--····--·····-·-··· ············--761
uya
an
t.,
13403 Cumpston
)
·
Mora a Blvd., Lafa ette
Benjamin Susman (529 --···-··-··········-·· ··-·-···········Y
g
Henry W. Scheuer (723) ....................................................3364

Eugene S. Hopp (260) ......·-···-···-·-····-·-··-···2000 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco 9
Leonel C. Panosh (574) .......................................................- .....350 Cedar St., San Diego 1
Frank Reinsch (677) ...................................................... 1322 No. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Henning J. Lueders (20) ....- .............................670 Woodlake Dr. North Sacramento 15
Alvie 0. Holton (625).·---··-·- ···-···--·--···--- -2100 W. 73rd St., Los Angeles
Laurence E. Dayton (61) ........................................................ 1832 Magellan Dr.. Oakland
City
John H. Brooke (562)-···--······················-·-····················61 Rockridge Ave., Daly City
David C. Lee (492)-......................................................9965 Woodruff Ave., Temple
Milton E. Ammann (600) .......................................- .........2709 E. 220th St., Long Beach

CONSTITU TION OBSERVAN CE

NECROLOG Y
Adam B. Morten (346) ·-·--···············-· ·····-····-····.20130 ~;:c~o~t~~nS =
Ross K. Roper. (360) ···········-································7500·;y;;:!nal Anne~, Los Angeles 54
p O Box 278 Ivanhoe
Myron E. Smith (394) ..............................Box
Emory 0. Hull, Jr.. (665 )·-·····························-··-··-·············12121 S. Eastbrook: Downey
Walter B. 'Meyers (220) ..........·-····--····-·························--

RITUAL
2730 Lorain Rd .. San Marino 9
oute t, Box 682, Gridley
Donald G. Campbell (608 )-··-································--·.R "R" s t., S acramento 16
Clare B· Campbell (230)---·-·····-··- ·-···········-······
2608
10
·
Harold N · Richards (20).·-··-···································-··
2044·- Bryant St., San Franc1sco
Box 887, Bakersfleld
Arthur}. Kahn (462)----······· ····-······················-··
11 W 7th St. Los Angeles 17
Raymond G. Taylor (466)-····-·· ··-··--··
8
Ralph W. Collins (739) ....---····--·---··- ···· 673 N ~ast Blvd., Laguna Beach
o.
W. Ben Sorrells (672) ..·-··-··--···---· --·-··-·

Harold C. Mudgett (629) ....·-············-······-··············-·····722 W. 4lst St., Los Angeles 37
Sergei N. Ivanoff (489) ··-···--·····-···-··········--··-··-·-·---925 Rose St., Oakland 11
Jesse J. Bell (524) ................ ·-···········································-······-··--················-Box 1, Avalon
Reynold C. MacDonald (301) ............................................................777 E. Olive, Upland
Everett S. Todd (527) ··-·-···-··--··-- --··--926 Glen Haven Dr.. Pacific Palisades
Earl Patterson, Jr. (494) ...........- ...·-··························-···20i2 Alameda St., Castro Valley
Robert Lintner (169) .... _............................................2087 - 33rd Ave., San Francisco 16
Edward H. Wrede, Jr., (561) ....................................................2335 - 32nd St.. San Diego
James C. Nisbet (I 03) ·················-···········································2074 Wilcox Ave., Oroville
Hambleton F. Leas (366) ..·-····················-··-····-······-····-······-····-···P.O. Box 455, Fresno
Charles R. Hapai (409) ···························-·······-·····················.5634 Haieoai St., Honolulu
Oran W. Palmer (581 )-······················-·-····-········-············-···2731 - 19th St.. Bakersfield
Daniel M. Cameron (20) .................................................. 1641 Parkridge Rd., Sacramento
William G. Buxton (429) ...............................- ............................. 1321 Maple St., Pittsburg

TAXATION
Alexander L. Croce J354)--·-·········--·············-·····-··1628-18th Ave., San Francisco 22
James E. Hammond (568)·-···-·········-···········-······-··-······-···1 Bush St., San Francisco 4
-1924 Broadway, Oakland 12
Robert R. York (349)----- -·----··--

MASONIC IDSTORY

21

Frai~~sco
)-----················· ·············89 Lake Forest CosurtSan,SaFnranc
0 · J· Wohlgemuth (1 22
-~
.3501 Anza t.,
3)
34
Angeles
Los
Ave.,
Veteran
··············32g4
···-······-··················
6(2)9
Whitsel61
Leon 0.
2
Glendale
Rd.,
Idlewood
1528
Frank Everett ( 4 ·····-····-·--···························-····
Kenneth H. Downs (646 )--·--·········-··············-··-···- ...3776 Front St., San Diego 3
8 Pearce Ave., Long Beach 11
Horace H. Blair (657) .........--·······-·..··················..
85
Bid Sa F ciseo 4
Kenneth B Conklin (616) ···--···················-··········-·····
g., n ran
Stanley E .. Gustavson ( 393 )--·-··································1470 Russ

······4

PUBUC SCHOOLS
1221 So. La Brea Ave., Inglewood 5
Claude E. Col~ (421) ..................................·-··········· 2701-14th Ave.. San Francisco 27
Irving A. Berliner (120).---····-··-···-·····-··--·~5()1} Dove Court. San Diego 3
.387 Orlena Ave., Long Beach
······-·-·-····-·-·
George K. Palmer (442)
·-····························-:2655 Montrose Pl., Santa Barbara
Perry Barrett (699)
364 Echo Ave.. Fresno
· --··············-··-·········
·Jess Sheegog (642).
George Hiatt (247) .............--····-·······························3179··~a~hinaLaru· D rE.,l Honolulu
Sobrante
Winston E McPherson (21)-..........................................
ne,
.......4217 Fans
k (JA7)
·
12
Oakland
St.,
Jackson
40
··········
"" ·······························
Horace H. Warnoc
1
Melvin C. Moran (568)·-···················································- 5

DE MOLAY
Homer E. Rathbun (368)------··-· ·-···-··-·---····7 43 Fairmont Ave., Glendale 3
Lester G. Bruno (499)-----·····-·· ··-····-··-·····253 0 Jay St. No. 102, Sacramento 16
Roy H. Gerard (366)----·--- -···----········-···- ·--····-·1428 Thomas Ave.• Fresno
Harold S. Medo (676).-·-··--··-·- -·······-·······-···- ········-···889 Regent St., Sao Jose
William W. Dewgaw (407) .....- ..··········-···--·-···3221 Banaoft. No. 9. Spring Valley
Noel W. Roser (648)·---····- ···-···--···---· ·------527 N. Marcella, Rialto
724 "G" St., Marysville
Willard Will ( 9 ) - - - - - - - - ·
-217 -32nd Ave.. San Francisco 21
Hal Curtis (344)---···---·· -···
Henry L. Wintz (493)_·······-····-········-··-··················-··-······---···P.O. Box 173, Cambria
Wendell M. Anderson (315).·--·-·····-··· -····-··-·14455 San Drequoto Dr., La Mirada
Clyde Patenaude ( 106 >-················-··-·-··················--·-···· ··-··-·····-··-B lue Lake

COLUMBIA TEMPLE
Cecil B. Mathews (8).·--···-···-···-· ···-·-········--·--·· ····-··-··--········B ox 936, Sonora
Arthur E. Clink (8) ·--·-·-··--···-··-····---···-·--··-·-··--········-··--·-··-··-Sonora
Chester M. Smith (525) ....................................................330 Via La Cumbre, San Rafael
A. F. Mailloux (44) ....................................................45 Marietta Dr., San Prandac:o 27
George L. Jacobs (216) ........·-········--············· -···--·-·-··450 Sutter St., San Francisco

416

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

417

DISTINGUIS HED GUESTS

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIO NERS

M. Jay Jensen (454)_.
c/o Olivet Memorial Park, Colma 25
Horace W. Rice (190------ -------315 Montgomery St.. San Francisco 4
Roy Wieland (454).·-···--·····- ·--····-·--·-··-·--·- t<> Lagunitas Dr., San Francisco 27
George P. Sllliman (494)--.4630 Edgewood Ave., Oakland~
Francis J. Herz (464)----·-···-·-·- -······-··-···---····- ···450 Sutter St., San Fran~isco
Chester R. MacPhee (455).----····--··- ····-··-···69 Grand View Ave., San Francisco 14
Max E. Morris (503) .........
l~h S~. R1chm2~
Joseph F. Garriott (630) ······················-·······-·············3844 - 19th ve., an ranclsco

Alexander Horne (216) .......·-···············-····-···············2135- 29th Ave., San Francisco 16
David R. Lane (638) ................................................................1155 Oxford St.. Berkeley 7
Robert H. Burrows (697)_____ _____
....-.211 Palm Dr., Piedmont
William H. Scott (435)--------- -·-···..335 Buckingham Way, San Francisco 27
Thomas W. S. Wu (495) ............................................ 1111 Stockton St., San Francisco

COMMERCI ALISM

William H. Adams (363).-.................................................6353 Wood Drive, Oakland 25
Hamilton Hintz (3)--------- --··········--·······- 2548 Marshall Way, Sacramento
Charles A. Thomasset (329).---··-······-· ···----······--··.215 W. 5th St., Los Angeles 13
rilmer G. Brill (240)----···--···-- ·-·············-···-··
_P.O. Box 89, Colusa
oger Emery Butler (247)---··-··-- --······-······--154 4 E. Fountain Way, Fresno 4
Elmer P. Bromley (698)-----··- ·--·-········--..396 4 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5
Charles J. Savage (442).-----·-· --···--··--··49 15 Monroe Ave., San Diego 15
Copeland Davis (589)---·····-····-·· ···-····-··········-········-·······--··-···Lihue, Kauai, Hawaii
Glendall W. McDermott (57) ...................... --··················-···1046 Vallejo St., Santa Rosa

---·-·-- ··---...i r-

Vincent P. McMurdo (453)----·--·-- ··----···299 Maywood Dr.• San FraEJ~ 27
Willard A. Braasch (296)----·····-····-·--·····-··············-··-········965 E. Madison,
jon
Jack L. Blaine (461)---···-·- ··----·--·-775 Post St.• Rm. 604. San FAnranclsco ~
liarvey Harkness (506)
_ _ _ _ ___210 W. 7th St., Los
geles "'I
Albert R. Bennison (382).------···-·· -·--····-·······-408 So. Spring St.• Los Angeles 13

1

RETIREMEN T PLAN
Artliur M. Warren (481)_.....................................•..........3060 - 16th St., San Francisco~
L. Harold Anderson (34<;) .....................- .......................245 Market St., San Francisco
James Leo Hallry (37'5}---·-····-······-··········-···············703 Plood Bid~., San Francisco 2
Leo Sievert (685) ··--················"····-··-··•······················· 114 Sansome t., San ~ranclsco 4
Reginald M. Mills (61} ..---···················-···•····-···············1059 Market St., San ranclsco 3

SOJOURNER S
William A. Cohendet (370) .................................................. 1557 Balboa Ave., Burlingame
Francis H. Gentry (716).---························306 Insurance Exchange Bldg .. rgng Reach
Westley P. Jones (745).....---··-··--·-· -·-··--·t35 Madison Ave.•486nBlruno
Edward M. Downs (473)---···········-· -······--····-·········· ·········-···P.0. Box
• ythe
Ben T. Salmon (632)
----·---··-411 0 Palisades Rd., San Diego 16
John Richmond (541).·-······-·····················································-1738 Grove St .• Berkeley 9
V. V. Kolombatovic (370) ....------··············- ····-·-··-2701 Easton Dr., Burlingame
Arthur Corbett (659) ·········-··-·····················································621 S. P~arl St.,dC°AJ::ton
George Cornwell (106) ........................................................Box 3507 Alliance R ., Mata
Joseph V. Antis to (708) ---··-································-·················389 Flower St., 'fsta e41
Melbourne W. Scott (765) ....................................11507 Ruthelen St.. Los llge~es
Wallace F. Powers (530) ....................................................................2415 Come , re ~o
William A. Boyen (371) ..............---····················-···-·····2316 Round Top Dr., Hono1 u

MUSIC
Harold Mueller ( 1)
.
955 Portola Dr., San Francisco 27
Austin Mo.sher (l).------··-· -···-··-··-···-- .1175 Johnson St., Menlo~~
Oharles J. Payne (5-t<>)..
1221 E. Roosevelt Rd., Long Bea

INSURANC E
T. James Carlile (215)------ ---------1 Montgomery St., San FFranclsco:
Allerton B. Ebert (489)
401 California St.. San ranclsco

CEMETERIES

2

Samuel E. Leddel (67 4) ·························-·················-··-··········...Box 2131, Long Beach ~
Harold C. Schroder (3) •··········-···-··········-·······················1149 - 28th Ave., Sacramen~
Thomas Edwards ( 101) ········································································x--······G;"···;;···T 1;
Frederick H. Chapman (622)---···-·-··-· -··-·-···4210 Edenhurst ve.. s ~e edt
Basil R. Gillett (124) .•.---···-······-····· -··-·-······-······- ···-P.0. Box 1076• ara se

MASONIC INFORMAT ION

OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ...................................- ...........623 So. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Matthew M. Codon (42) ........................................... 530 Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles 5
Leo E. Anderson (355) ......·-····························---100 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 17

SPECIAL COMMITTE E ON TRIAL FORMS
Evttett Houser (504).---····-·········-·····-·······-··- ····-·-260 Atlantic Ave., Long Beach

~ Blair Rikon (166) ...............................................--····-··-·······-·-··-···············Brentwood

J n W. Ba er (513) ....................................................3670 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles

c·o N STITU Tl 0 NAL BOA RDS
ENDOWME NT BOARD
l°hn M. Gordon (202)---· - - ··· - - -··-·--·3446 Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27
ester A. Price (379)-·····-····-- ·······-···························-·······.458 Saratoga St., Fillmore
Byron Coleman (454) .................................................. 351 California St., San Francisco 4
Kermit A. Jacobson (599) ....................................................417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena
Ralph S. Brokaw ( 346).
··3825 El Camino Real, Palo Alto
He:fe G. Van Dyke (327) .................................................. 3705 Pine Ave., Long_ Beach 7
Char es H. Grace (635) ..........................................................4210 Highland Pl., Riverside

s~%~·::0e-t~J-ff38)"==:=·······································:~!71s~1K~1~~ar:v~

oward . Rose ~395)------··-····------2285 East Canal Dr., Turlock
William H. Schoo er (254) ...................................................................... 1045 East, Redding
Fred H. Blanchard (373)---- -··-·-·---1 48 So. Anita, Los Angeles 49
Fred F. Elliott (483)... _ .....................................- ...............................4671 Bell Ave., Bell
J. Glen Gladson (542) ....................................................6201 Satsuma, North Hollywood
Kent SeF1our (356) ............................................................525 Summit Ave., Mill Valley
Charles . Minettl (57) ........................................................ 1536 Raegan Ave.. Santa Rosa
James B. Baker (778) ...................................................................... P. 0. Box 87, La Mirada
Arthur A. Anderson (385) ······-·············-·--···························.578 Vermont Ave., Dinuba
Charles Ratkovich (268) ..........................................................2954 Shasta Road, Berkeley
Sy Dennis, Jr. (3) .............................................................. 1031 Appollo Way, Sacramento
Frank R. Porath (442) .............................................................. 1536 Dale St., San Diego 2

418

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

INVESTM ENT

CALIFO RNIA MASON IC MEMOR IAL TEMPLE

Paul A. Pflueger (370)-----··-· ---··--·--····-- ------------Mi lls Bldg., San Franc.lsco
Arthur M. Warren (481) ..................................................3060-16th St., San Francisco 43
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ..---·----·-····---···········-····-·-·········623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. (529) ....................................3600 Wilshire Blvd., Los An~~~i5 17
~
John M. Gordon (202) ·--··--····-··-·- -·······-··--··-·· 3446 Aniesbury Rd., Hollyw

2

BOARD OF CONTRO L
Arthur Dvorin (639)------ -···-·-····--- ---1030 S. Cochran Ave., Los ~es 1g
Irving Magnes (225)---···-·-·· ···--··-·····-----· -···············256 LaSalle Ave., P1 C Dt 1
John Swan (667).-------------··-·-·····--··-···-··----··-·········2430 Orange Ave.,~ esce2~
Norman E. Hale (574)------···- -·--·--····---···· --------6012 Lomond Dr., a ~flod
Lester S. McElwain (403)-----·-······-····································--1419 Broadway, a an 2

00

RECOGN ITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Phil N. Myers (430)---··- -···-·-···---- ·-·..3000 Wel'!J. Sixth St., Los~gjles ~
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr. (202) ...--------------------.458 S. Spring St., Los
ge_es
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ·-···----------·······-·--········-·····-·--····111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4

1

419

BOARD OF TRUSTEE S
Ira W. Coburn, Pres. (216) ...............-·······-····-···-···2440 Mariposa St.• San Francisco 10
Frank Harwell, Jr., Vice-Pres. (S.28).--··············-··-·--····623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul A. Pflueger (370) ..........................................................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Arthur M. Warren (481) ..•----·-·-··------ ------------30 60- 16th St., San Francisco 3
Keith W. Schlaegel (372)----··· ··-···-----··· --··-··J320 W. 163rd St., Gardena
Elmer W. Heald (384)---··-···- -··------------ --····-·------S upertor Court, El Centro
Theodore Meriam ( 111) ···································-···-········-·-··-·····713 Arbutus Ave., Chico
Jfhn W. Davey (260)------ -----------·- -····-1290 Sutter St., San Francisco 9
alph H. Head (352)------- ··-----P.O. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Samuel I. Jacobs (216) ...•...............--------------------------946 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Jay A. Robinson (674} .... _..................·-··--······-···-·····--··-·········P.0. Box 1270, San Pedro
Alvin A. Horwege, Manager
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8

DIREC TORS

MASO NIC

CLUBH OUSES

Berkeley

CODE COMMISS ION
William Nankervis, Jr. (215) ·····--·····-····-·-·-·····----······80 Woodland Way, PSiedmonRt 11
Edward T. Koford (57) ..........................Empire Bldg., 217 Exchange AvA a}tj od
David P. Russell (396)----··········································-······-···2230 San Jose v[;, Be
Everett Houser (504) ····--·---·-·······-········-··-···---------~---260 Atlantic Ave., F ng. ea 21
Leonard S. Lurie (216)---·--·· -··--··-··----- ---··495-32n d Ave., San ranc1sco

ch

TRUSTEE S OF MASONIC HOMES

Berkeley Clubhouse

Edgar V. Stewart, President (529) ............3600 Wilshire Blvd., Rm. 860. Los Ang~les 5
L. Harold Anderson, Vice President (346) ........---------245 Market St.. San FrAngancil ~
Phil N. Myers (430)---···--·········--········-··········-···3000 West Sixth St., Los
ees
James Leo Halley (375).---······-···-····-·····-···-·····-··-------.-703 Flood Bldg .. San Ffulcl~2
Edward J. Blickfeldt (535)---·····- -·---···--···--- -------590 Hargrave St., g e_w
George o. Gavin ( 144) ···---------·--·--·······---········55 New Montgomery 'sSanlran~1sco 5
Ira w. Coburn (216)---·-·----········-·------·--·-·-----2440 Mariposa St., an r3EfC:o 10
Elmer W. Heald (384).------·- ------·-------- --------------· Superior O>urk
Theodore Meriam ( 111 )-----·-··········-···--····-------··-·········-·-··-713 Arbutus ve.,
!co

Chtro

MASONIC HOME FOR THE AGED
Union City, California
Telephone GReenleaf 1-3434
Gail H. David, Superintendent

MASONIC HOME FOR CI-llLDREN
20336 East Badillo St.
O>vlna, California
Telephone EDgewood 2-3138
Robert M. Henry, Superintendent

Orville J. Siye' Pres. (349) .................................................... 1605 Roger Ct., El Cerrito
Wallace E. ork, Vice-Pres. (403)---···················-····5109 Proctor Ave., Oakland 18
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Secty (541) ..•............................. 1834 Tre9tle Glen Rd., Piedmont 11
Charles F. Dalziel, Treas. (541) .......................................•......2240 Virginia St., Berkeley
Gene C. Otwell. Asst. Secty (705) ..............................................759 Creston Rd., Berkeley
Paul S. Boren (551) ......................................................................1947 Tiffin Rd .• Oakland 2
Gordon F. Black (635)----····-····-·································715 Darien Way_, San Francisco 27
Russell C. Horstmann (336)----···············- ··················--··-·-·.560 ~ 57~h St., Oakland 9
John L. Wixon (705) .........---·--······---·--······-····················------··6519 Knott St., El Cerrito
2590 Bancroft Way, Berkeley
Mrs. Janice Kohl. Resident Hostess

Los Angeles
Frank H. Reinsch, Chairman (677).-----··-----·····-···1322 N. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Clyde C. Shoemaker, Vice-Chairman (566) .................... 117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14
C. Earl Crane, Sectfi.-Treas. (528) ................................440 N. Palm Drive, Beverly Hills
A. Curtis Smith (6 8)-------·······················-···············-·····21 l N. Elm Drive, Beverly Hills
A Klarquist (445) ....._.......................................618 S. Western Ave., Los Ang_eles 2
lvin C. Drake (677) .................................................. 1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504) ................................................4155 Greenbrier Rd., Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan (327) ................................................ 1505 Armando Dr.. Long Beach 7
George E. Hall (528) ....•...............................................416 N. Bedford Dr., Beverly Hills
Frank Jenkins (528) ----··-···········································--·······-242 S. Peck Dr., Beverly Hills
George Kusman (506)-···-·············-···-··--------608~ N. Beachwood Dr., Los Angeles 4
S. Ro~ Howell (662) ............ ············-··················-···--326 N. Croft Ave., Los Angeles 48
Paul . Nichols (662)---···············································.743 Glenwood Road, Glendale 2
Bates Mason (373) ···----···················-·····-····---.3227 Castle Heights Ave., Los Angeles 34
Thomas Carroll (373)·-··-·---······--·--·-···-····---·-3630 So. Barry Ave., Los Angeles 66

lfhn

Los Angeles Clubhouse
10886 Le Conte Ave., Los Angeles 24
Mrs. Faith C. Sheldon, Director of Activities

PROCEEDING S OF THE

420

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REGISTR ATION AND MILEAGE PAYMEN TS
Name of Lodge

No. of Lod11e

Repreoentativeo

Mileage Allowed

California ··---···--- No. l_Samuel C. Shenk, Master
Herman V. Banzet, Senior Warden
Horace W. Orear, Jr., Junior Warden
Harold Mueller, Grand Organist
Edward C. Lohmeyer. P.M. and Inspector
Virl Bennehoff, Past Master
James Hurst, Past Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Past Master
James F. McKay, Jr., Past Master
Howard M. McKinley, Jr., Past Master
Ralph E. Mott, Past Master
David Thomson, Past Master
James V. Vann, Past Master
34.72
Western Star ·····-··-······-···No. 2..-James M. James, Junior Warden. .....·-······-···
Tehama ________ __ No. 3_..Vernoo T. Jackson, Master................. _........ . 8.40
William C. Kasmire, Jr., Senior Warden
Floyd 0. Cook, Junior Warden
Horace R. LaFortune, P.M. and Inspector.. 8.40
Otto Rohwer, Past Master.............................. 8.40
Charles A. Schwartz. Past Master
Benicia ______ __ No. 5.._Jahn A. Marchut. Master·-·······-········-········· 3.80
Raymond E. Calvert, Senior Warden
Orval F. Carpenter, Junior W·arden
Tuolumne _ _ _ _ _ _ No. 8....Reuben V. Porter, Senior Warden................ 11.52
Corinthian _______No. 9.... Frands M. Ramsey, Muter....·-··-····-··········· 11.68
Melvin M. Williams, Senior Warden
Timuret Mcl<imey, Past Master
.................................. 4.54
No. 10 Ernest J. Banzet, MasterWarden
San J.....
Earl George, Senior
···-.T'
-----···-·- -···Joseph S. Greenley, Past Master
·J~!w;•·····-··-········· 3.26
f,:1::~.t~=.
....
12
···-No.
-··-········--·
Yount
Cornelius Kernan, Past Master
Harold B. McCormick, Past Master
No. 13._Herbert J. Kendall, Senior Warden.-······· ·-··· 28.36
Nevada-- -·
No. H_William W. Smirci<:h, Master..·-···-······-·- 4.00
Temple
Eureka --···-··-··-- -No. 16.... Harry Leonard Rosenberry,_ Master..·-········· 11.82
William Ray Batt, Junior Warden
William Edward Marshall, P.M. and
11.82
Inspector ·····················-······················-·······
Bernard Lyle Haines, Past Master
La Parfalte Union ····-··-No. 17_Feliz P. Lassalle, Master
Henry M. Labataille, Senior Warden
Andre L. Armand, P.M. and Inspector
Camille H. Artru, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfanti, Past Master
Jules Ramond, Past Master
James F. Smith, Past Master
MOlllltain Shade...·-····--No. 18._Gordon E. Tucker, Elected Representative.. 40.76
_No. 19_Norman W. Sh<JW, Jr., Master--····-· ······· 7.94
San Joaquin.
John W. Ek, Senior Warden
Claude Asher, Junior Warden
George E. Woodruff, Past Master
K. Richards, Master-····-··················· 8.40
_Robert
..
20
o.
-···-····----N
Washington
Jack D. Shrader, Senior Warden
Calvin H. MS\jnWIOll, Junior Warden
Harold N. Richards, Assistant
8.40
Grand Lecturer ·····························-···········

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lodse

Repreoentative1

421
Milea e Allowed
11

Daniel M. Cameron, Grand Standard
Bearer .......................................................... 8.40
William L. Lewis, Past Master
Henning J. Lueders, Past Master
Dwight J. Morrow, Past Master
Robert L. Zehrbach, Past Master
Hawaiian ··--·····--.N o. 21 •._Arthur Mana Meyer, Senior Warden..·--··· - 338.19
Frederick Bolte, P.M. and Inspector. ____ 338.19
Norman R. Davis, Past Master
Gordon E. Smith, Past Master
No. 22.... Frederick Clarkson Parker, Master
Occidental Clareoce Gilbert Rosenstock, Senior Warden
William E. Bouton, Past Master
Harold A. C. Mitchell, Past Master
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master
John August Mord, Jr.. Past Master
Theodore E. Rackerby, Past Master
Stanley Samuel Stojkovich, Past Master
Robert A. W ertsch, Past Master
Madison - - - - - - N o . 23_Frank E. Jonas, Master:--· ·-·--·-····- 27.76
Charles V. We-k:ih, Jr., Senior Warden
Edward Farley, P.M. and Inspector•••••••_.__ 27.76
29.62
Mariposa ---~No. 24___ Walter T. Franck. Master
Ahilip Martell, Senior Waa-den
Daniel l(tJeiman, P.M. and Inspector.·-··· ···- 29.62
James P. McElligott. Past Maater
Georgetown -·-··-·---N o. 25.••. Leland B. Butt. Master..·-··············-················ 13.62
John Edgar Walker, Senior Warden
Carl B. Forsberg, Past Master
13.52
El Dorado -·······--···.. No. 26_0wen C. Murray, Jr., Master:
Albert W. Frey, Senior Warden
Robert 0. West, Past Master
Junior Warden...•·-·········-···- 39.12
Trinity ---·-·----····No. 27._A. G. Smith,
Golden Gate.....•...- .......-No. JO_Norman E. Johnson. Senior Warden
Lee L. Aslanian, Junior Warden
•
Harry K. W1dup, P.M. and lmpector
Raymond Henry Bradle)", Past Master
Albert Wm. Crumpton, Past Master
Louis H. Matheson. Past Master
Randolph M. Rosso, Past Master
Gold Hill._·-···- --..No. 32_Leslie P. Ricltardson, Master--········ ··········· 11.08
James H. Bickford, Senior Warden
Ophir --·····-·--- -No. 33.-Robert A. Laythe, Elected Representative.. 11.94
San Diego______ No. 3S__ G. Thomas Overby, Master.•.·-·--··············· 67.70
Preston E. Primm, Junior Warden
Joe L. Shell, Past Grand Master_···-············· 67.70
Alden J. Fulke-rson, Past Master.................. 67.70
Fred E. Lawrence, Past Master
~mes H. Leach, Past Master
artin Ortlllieb, Past Master............................ 67.70
Fred J. H. Rickon, Past Master
Maurice B. Ross, Past Master.......... ·-·····-····· 67.70
Howard -------N o. 37-Gerald B. Hopkins, Senior Warden.............. 45.12
Jahn R. Collier, Junior Warden
Geo1"9e S. Ward, P.M. and Inspector..___ 45.12
Santa Cruz - - - - - N o . 38....Theodore E. Mowrey, Master..........·-··········· 7.34
Raymond H. Goodrich, Senior Warden
Kenneth D. Ferguson, Junior Warden
Albert J. Thorp, Past Master
7.34
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master............. _.........

422
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

Mileaee AlloWed

Sacramento -·····--···N o. 40....Charles Eugene Sutfin. Master.................... _ 8.40
Richard Lewis Braden, Senior Warden
Marion Willford Comstock, Junior Warden
A. Boyd Collier, P.M. and nspector............ 8.40
----·------------------- 3.28
Martinez ·······-···------·······---No. 41 ....Gharles Laird, Master..............
Joseph Robrecht, Jr., Senior Warden............ 3.28
Robert F. Fountain, Junior Warden
Robert L. Evans, Past Master
Wakefield Taylor, Past Master......... ........... 3.28
Ernest C. Webb, Past Master
······· 56.98
Los Angeles...............---····No. 42....lrving Zuckerman, Master...---············--··
Edward A. Fromsky, Senior Warden
Philip L. Goldstein, Junior Warden
Matthew M. Codon, Past Master.....·-····-····· 56.98
August Flam, Past Master
Joseph D. Weisberg, Past Master
Hiram ······-············-··-···-···No. 43....George E. Sammer, Master............................ 13.82
Mount Moriah ·····----------No. 44 ..•. Richard C. Brown, Master
Kenneth J. Lovaasen, Senior Warden
Harry S. Swierstra, Junior Warden
Crescent _____ __ No. 45.... Charles Thunen, Master.......·-·--···········-····---·- 44.62
Victor Stone, Senior Warden
Gustave W. Klotz, Past Master
Texas -----··--····-- -------No. 46....David F. Wright. Elected Representative.... 8.14
Forbestown ------------····No. 50....John H. Masteller, Senior Warden................ 29.92
Illinoistown ------------- No. 51._Ronald P. Fawcett, Master-----·····-··--·-····· 26.16
Suisun ................................No. 55._William L. Valladao, Master........................ 4.68
Roy B. Petree, Senior Warden
R. Glenn Hollar, P.M. and Inspector............ 4.68
Jomes L. Borland, Past Master
Ame Digerud, Past Master
Floyd Hooper---·····---·---------··············· 11.44
W.
....
56
···-··No.
··-······-····-··
Volcano
Santa Rosa ____________ No. 57_Denman C. Daw, Master..................._...... 4.86
0. Doyle Blair, Jr., Senior Warden
Raymond C. Fay, Junior Warden
Charles Warren, Senior Grand Deacon........ 4.86
Glendall W. McDermott, Past Master
Robert A. Miller, Past Master
Charles F. Minetti, Past Master
Lee C. Shea, Past Master
Union ------·······---------------No. 58....Leighton D. Armstrong, Master..._............... 8.40
Orville H. Wulf, Senior Warden
John Pompei, Junior Warden
Otto F. Link, P.M. and Inspector.................. 8.40
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range _________ No. 59 .... Leland K. Pauly, Senior Warden. ...... __________ 32.16
Plumas ______ __ No. 60._Denis W. Geil, Master...•·-·-········--·· ·--··--·· 33.86
Orval A. Myers, Past Master
Live Oak--···-- ----·-·No. 61.... Ralph W. Winters, Master
Charles D. Small, Senior Warden
Folger Emerson, Past Master
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
Reginald Mills. Past Master
Clarence A. Severin, Past Master
..·--·-····---····-···--·· 10.28
Natoma --·--· - -----····No. 64....Clayton J. Smith, MasterWarden
Raymond C. Hall, Senior
Roger L. Doermer, Junior Warden:
Emmett F. Hill, Past Master
Amador ________ ___ No. 65....Loren J. Ayres, Senior Warden...---------- 11.54
Alfred A. Penrose, P. M. and lmpector_____ 11.54

423

Morning Star -·-----N o. 68.:...KBe~-~Lavn; CFarlson, Master...........-......... 7.94
eman.1 es 1e aunce, Senior Warden
Elias Silas Weber, Junior Warden
Alvin V. Abbott, Past Master
Marshall Bey Greene, Past Master
E
11.68
Paillex, Master
Robert
nterprlse ..........................No. 70....
Edward Deward Steele:}~;i;;;\v~~d~-;;-------··
8 ear Mountain ____ No. 76._Not Represented
Cal averas .................- ......No. 78.-0harles F. Sclhwoerer, Elected
Representative ·····················-······-············-· 10_74
H mb ldt
----------- --No. 79.... Helge A. Palmrose, Elected
u o
Representative ·········--·······---------------····---·· 39_72
Ion
y 0 - · - - - - - - - N o . 80.... E. James Relvas, Elected Representative ...... 11.94
87
0
--···-··-··-- ------No. 81 ....Roy Jones, Junior Warden.
· O
William P. Wilson, Past M~;;;.-·----------·····v
Senior
Reynolds,
Edmund
C\yles
....
84
-----No.
esper ··--·-------7 Ed arden ···-········-·-··-·-······---····················· 31.44
N
Naval
3 30
---·--------·· ------- o. 8 ....• ward L. Baehr Master
William R. Frank, Senior w~;d;~-------------···
Leoillillrd G. Dickinson, Junior Warden
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
Leo B. Chambers, Past Master
John K. Cothran, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Orrin R. Hewitt, Past Master
Joseph A. Johns, Past Master
Ralrph A. Neely, Past Master
Melvin C. Nelson, Past Master
Everett D. Smith, Past Master
Heney F. Tyrrell, Past Master
Bertrand Wichels, Past Master
R • B
13.88
ose s ar -----------···--· ··--No. 89....C. Wendell Freeland Master
William D. Cochran, Senior W~d~-;;····------·
John C. Peterson, Junior Warden
Thomas K. Scogland, Past Master
47.50
North Star.... ·--------~-----No. 91._ WiJIMd Leroy Eastlick Senior W d
ar en...... 6 04
St. Helena ···-----·····--- -No. 93.... Frank Ogletree, Mast~
·
Myrt L. Ballard, Senior Ward~-----------····---Homer Denton, Junior Warden
Rudolph M. Rossi, Past Master
C
H
H!rnry lay...............______ No. 95....George V. Keeland, Master-······----·-··-···· 10 90
29 . 62
rutos ----·····-··-------------No. 98....E!mer G. Pretzer, Master......
Deward L. Walker, Senior vi~~---············
Cloyed N. Taylor, Junior Warden
25.82
Wilson E. Lathrop, P.M. and Inspector
.
······ 25.82
YoseD11te --·-···----- ---No. 99.... Donald R. Fretz, Master..
Kenneth Leake, Senior W~d~-;;···-·········--·-·--··
Leland D. Boysen. Past Master
Elmer G. Nordman, Past Master
A. Harold Rolfes, Past Master
Oay -------- ---No. 10! ROlla:ld E Murray Mast
27·40
·-Glenn F. ParsoDS, Senior w~~den:·------------Herbert W. Haberkorn, Past Master
Claude Frank Herrold, Past Master
Oroville ---·····----····------No. 103....Robert L. Shepard, Senior Warden.............. 26.82
26.82
James C. Nisbet, Grand Bible Bearer····-------· 56.98
Lexington .............._____ No. 104.... Henry W. Parker, Master
~ C. Roach, Senior wa.;d;;-------·-···········-·

1

t

.

Ro~~~ ~J=: J~;M~~ehispector.... 56.98

424
Name of Lodge

PROCEED INGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representative•

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA
Mileage Allowed

Arcata -·-··--· --·-No . 106.-Tom Tobe Morgan, Senior Warden. ........... 39.72
Elmer Joseph_ Evans, Junior Warden
Sidney A. Webster, P.M. and Inspector........ 39.72
James Edwin Morton, Jr., Past Master
.......·-·················- 9.32
P ajaro - - - - - · - · ·No• 110-h Willard Watts, Master
erbert K. Stocking, Senior W a rden
Harold F. Trafton, P.M. and Inspector..._... 9.32
Edward Wahl, Master.......................-. 28.64
Chi co···········-···················No. 111....John
Darrel W. Phillips, Senior Warden
William F. Jewett, Junior Warden
William C. Brouillard, P.M. and Inspector.. 28.64
William M. Conner, Past Master
Henry Drobny, Past Master
T•heodore Meriam, Past Master.................... 28.64
Bric A. Tonningsen, Past Master
Summit ·-····--····-·········No. 112.... Not Represented
Eden -··--····· ·-·--···-No. 113.... 0harles L. Fine, Master
Peter J. Taipella, Junior Warden
Elmer E. Ross, P .M. and Insp~tor
Watter A. Hemichsen, Past Master
Ernest D. Hutton, Past Master
Concord --·····--· ····No. 117._F. Lane Wildange r, Senior Warden............. 8.40
Alexander S. Waugh, Junior Warden
Martin C. Davis, Past Master
Fidelity ······-···-··- ····-··No. 120_Euge ne A. BlumS e~thaWI. Mdaster
Isadore Betz, eruor
ar en
Herbert W. Cahn, Junior Warden
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Albert Fari:>er, Past Master
Robert/· Himmelstern, Past Master
Bernie . Katz, Past Master
Robert A. Klinger, Past Master
Edgar C. Levey, Past Master
Mark H. Nusbaum, Past Master
Henry E. Rudee, Past Master
Harold Simon, Past Master
Cyril Louis Weeks, Past Master
No.
122....Alfred S. Adams, Master................................
1.90
Al amo ··········-·············-Anthony J. Pucell, Junior Warden
Ralph M. Hinds, P.M. and Inspector.- ···-····
1.90
Joseph H. Lewis, Past Master
O. J. Wohlgemu th, Past Master
Sotoyome --··· - ·· -- No. 123....Walter J. Welton, Master_............................ 5.90
Osmer 0. Mallan, Master...................---······· 30.34
Tabl e M ount a in -·····--···No• 124··-R.
E . Parson, Senior Warden
Basil R. Gillett, Past Master
La Pa ette ____ _No. 126....James L. Worthingt on. Master...---········ · 5.66
y
Ralph M. Hilton, Past Master
Jomes G. Thomson, Past Master
Hennann --···-···· --·No. 127.... Walter H. Arden, Master
Michael Sohredl, Senior Warden
Rudolph G. Brauch, Junior Warden
John Behrens. P.M. and Inspector
Oscar Bachmann, Past Master
Oscar Goegel. Past Master
William Haag, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
George Mammen, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes, Past Master
Wilhehn Schumacher, Past Master

Name of Lod&e

No. of Lod1e

Representatives

425
Mileage Allowed

Visalia ··--···---· --··-·No. 128..-Ira P. Pratt, Master.....................·-···-··········· 35.04
Cecil R. Disbrow, Senior Warden
Herbert R. Welch, Junior Warden
James Barnett Lawson, P.M. and Inspector.. 35.04
Nicolaus
No. · 129-Burt W . McCurry, Senior Warden.............. 11.68
Woodbrid ge ···----... No. 131.-Will ard A. PeterllOll, Master......·-······-······ ··
9.20
Palmer A. Wells, P.M. and Inspector............
9.20
David E. Kellar, Past Master
Sincerity ·-··-···-- -··-No. 132....Edward T. Kunzler, Master..........•· - · ········ 35.56
John L. Hall, Senior Warden
r:dward L. Spellmeyer, P.M. and Inspector.. 35.56
Lyal L. Wells, Past Master
Vacaville
No. 134.... James J. Hartley, Jr., SeniO&" Warden.·-········
5.62
Valley ·---···- --·No. 135.... Not Represented
PaciJk -·········· ·-··-No. 136....Edwin D. Shank, Master
Robert Shimoff, Senior Warden
Gerald Levin, Past Master
Samuel C. Levin, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Herbert Pothier, Past Master
Fred A. Storek, Past Master
WilUam McEwen Webster, Past Master
Crockett ____ __No. 139....Harvey E. McCarthy , Master
Eugene M. Rucker, Senior Warden
Henry C. Albert, Jr., Junior Warden
Gordon Jensen, Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Ralph T_._Spencer, Past Master
Ballard White, Jr., Past Master
Curtis ____ ___No. 140•... Lucien L. Tyler, Muter.·- -··-··-·-·· ····-·- 7.40
Grafton
.. _._No. 141-Clare nce D. Archer, Senior Warden...... _
8.90
Louis H. Roye, Past Master
Franklin
·---No . 143.... Robert Earl Hanson, Master.... ·-········-·····-·· 9.80
Gordon Beals Waterwor th, Senior Warden
Ray Earl Burdg, P.M. and lmpector.......... _ 9.80
Edward Theodore Lyon, Past Master
Oriental - - - · - -.......No. 144.... Harold Hamilton Hutchison, Jr.• Master
Jalmar Jacob Perttula, Junior Warden
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Ian A. Russell, Past Master
Vitruvius ····-··-- -No. 145..-Reynolds 0 . Francke, Master..·--········-·· ··- 5.94
Carl Christi.an. Junior Warden
Abell _ _ _ _No. 146.... Fred Haley, Master...--········-· ··---··-··-· -- 10.86
Charles Bell, Senior Warden
Elmer M. Hopper, P.M. and Inspector........ 10.86
Eel River .. _ _ _No. 147-Lero y Dougherty , Senior Warden....·-·-···- 37.40
Alfred Pollard, Junior Warden
Lassen _ _ _ _No. 149-Pred D. Bradbury, Senior Warden.... _____ 40.52
Elmer Glenn Van Tassell, P.M. and
Inspector ·-···-·-- -···--· -·-··- 40.52
Robert M. Fulton, Past Master
Molino
·----N o. 150-Gera ld Leon Bettman, Senior Warden. .-... 30.36
Lloyd Ario Countryman, P.M. and
Inspector ·-····-·-- -··········-·· -···--· - 17.74
Woodland
No. 156•._Donald G. Plank, Muter...........................-__
8.10
James Wright, Senior Warden
Keystone _ _ _ _ No. 16l_Erwi n T. Drown, Elected Representative.... 10.H

426
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Harmony ·-······-···········No. 164.... Arthur I. Copeland, Junior Warden.............. 39.22
James R. Lam:b, Past Master
Excelsior -···---------···-No. 166.... Gino Ailfred Gerbi, Master
George EgiDg Schneider, Senior Warden
Loyd William Thomas Gray, Junior Warden
Charles Albert Adams, Past Grand Master
Ralph Edwin Flathmann, Past Master
Joseph Clemen.rt Kohlbecher, Past Master
Harry Frier Lutticken, Past Master
Alameda ----············-···-·No. 167....Claude Roberts, Master..........----·-······--·-··-··· 3.12
WiHiam Carrion. Senior Warden
Redwood City ··-··--·--------No. 168....

~~~enld~Ja':::.~~-~-~~-----------------·-William James Hodgson, Senior Warden

Archie Ray Sherman. Junior Warden
Frank D. Wentwor.th, Past Master
Mission ·-···--·-······-·····--No. 169.._Raymond P. Seyden, Master
Haig D. Sogihomoni'an. Senior Warden
Francis C. Shuman, Junior Warden
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
Robert Lintner, Past Master
Reginald C. Taverner, Past Master
Elk Grove ----·········-··-·No. 173.... ~tl~dlfi~~~e![C:,s\V;;d;~------··--------------··
Drytown -····-··-····-····-No. 174._.Adriil;ll Taylor'. Senior Ward'en.....................
Antioch ······---------No. 175.. _Marns E. Houlette, Master............................
John Richey, Senl:or Willl'den
Phoenix ···················--·--No. 178....

427

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

2.46

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Arthur E. Hessel, Past Master
Wa1lter Lindman, Past Master
William M. Vanderbilt, Past Master
Santa Barbara ................No. 192...J. Rolland Keyes, Master·-------·-----·-------------- 47.20
Jack B. Westfall, Senior Warden
Otto F. Pedersen, Junior Warden
Ray H. Paine, P.M. and Inspector................ 47.20
W. Wayne Pitkin, Past Master
Ferndale -··-·······-·······---No. 193-RaG"h F. Herrick, Elected Represeil/tative.... 38.96
Mountain View -----·-·····-No. 194.-~!kll·H~ll~~:&~~~---··----··-···---- 3.42
Chair'les W. Smith, Junior Warden
Arno Ragghianti, P.M. ,and Inspector..........
Ohester F. Awalt, Past Master
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Wendell Grubb, Past Master
Buckeye ------------------·-No. 195.·-t:efw~s~!~d~~:i;;;-w~~~-------·····

8.40
10.80
5.06

~~ae'i~Js~~~~U:~~-~~~~----------------- 61.94
Leland P. Kimbrough, Senior Warden

Lorin T. Stipe, Junior Warden
Ralph Linfesty, Past Master
Harry P. Loy, Past Masttt
Mendocino _______No. 179.... Noel G. Gabbert, Master...... ----····-----------------John D. Dearing, Sr., P.M. and Inspecror....
Petaluma --·--··-·····-··-No. 180....Walter James Casarotti, Master....................
Alboot P. Behreru;, Jr., Junior Warden
John Keller, Jr., P.M. and Inspector............
John Carl Werner, Past Master
Russian River ..............•_No. 181....Joseph W. Wright, Senior Warden.___________
Lon T. Du Bose. Junior Warden
Carroll C. Doane, Past Master
Arbuckle -·········-··------No. 182.... Al Sylva. Seni<M" Warden...---····-········-·········
Clear Lake ····--·········-·....No. 183.... Gerald B. Fowler, Senior Warden................
Sierra Valley ··-·····-··-No. 184....Arthur M. Strang, Elected Representative....
Claiborne ----········-··-··-No. 185._Archer R. Richardson, Elected
Representative ··-·····--···············----------------·Evening Star ________No. 186.... Not Represented
Keith ----····-·-··---·----No. 187_.James F. Baker, Master..... --~·-·····-·····--------·
Ralph L. Eustis, Senior Warden
R. Harlan Husk, Junior Warden
Oakland ·······-·-······-··--No. 188.... Harte E. Robertson. Master
Neil S. Hannon, Senior Warden
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Lester H. Landre, Past Master
Sidniey F. Sea. Past Master
Northern Light ______ No. 190-L. Lamar Boswell, Junior Warden................
Marin ····-······-··········-No. 191....Lester H. Hicks, Master
Donald F. Murray, Senior Warden
Lawrence P. McNear, J,r., Junior Warden
George T. Rowse, P.M. and Inspector

Name of Lodge

19.56
19.56
3.94
3.94
5.40
10.74
5.70
36.00
18.56
7.34

35.82

3.42

7.72

Milton Hoffe Sharp, P.M. and Inspector.... 7.72
San Simeon ···---------···---··No. 196....Walter E. Dresser, Master..·-········----·----··-·· 34.60
James F. Fry, Past Master
Wilmington ··-----·--·--··-··-·No. 198.-Sherrell E. Beadle, Senior Warden.............. 56.98
Wilford G. Lundquist, Junior Warden
Alton T. DuRant, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
Thomas F. Mason, Past Master......-------------· 56.32
Garficld E. Tyler, Past Master
Hartley ···--···------------···----No. 199.-.Stanley M. ISh, Senior Warden. .....·--·---------~ 10.00
William F. Morrison, J.1ror Warden
Guido de Ghetaldi, P. . and Inspector_______ _ 10.00
Truckee ··-··------·--------·-····No. 200.. _0tis Wing, Master...........................•.............. 32.36
M. F. Jones, Senior Warden
Herman Tiedeman, Junior Warden
Wayne E. Philippi, P.M. and Inspector..... . 32.36
James Mciver, Past Master
Silveyville ...................... No. 201.._Jay W. Lewis, Senior Wairden........---·--·------ 6.40
John W. Tutt, Past Master
Peutalpha --···-···-------·--···No. 202._Robert D. McLaren, Master_________________________ _ 56.98
Sherman R. Whitney, Senior Wm-den
Lawrence L. Morrison, Junior Warden
Jahn M. Gordon, Past Master
William R:hodes Hervey, Jr., Past Master
CJ:arence W. Hull, Past Master
Confidence ··--··--···-··-·····--No. 203.._Charles E. Hunter, Master·--··········--·····-··---- 10.14
Claude R. Hutohinson, Senior Warden
Fong Q. Jing, Past Master
Salinas ·····-·-··------·-------·-·No. 204._Frank Richey, Master----··-----------·· 10.74
Raymond H. Ansell, Senior Warden
Freeman G. Sanders, P.M. and Inspector...... 10.74
Wilton J. Smid1, Past Master
Olivet -····--···"······--········No. 205•._William R. Mace, Master..........·-·····--·········· 29.56
Charles E. Smiillh, Senior Warden
Jahn F. Winslow, Junior Warden
Archer R. Kirkpatrick, Past Master
Stanislaus -····-········--·---··No. 206._Harry A. Franks, Master---······----·····-----------· 9.66
Melvin G. Walls, Senior Warden
Anaheim -···-··-··-········-···-No. 207••.• Phillip L. Webb, Master·-···-····-·····-······'··-··· 58.06
Robert A. Morris, Senior Warden
A. Bird Cross, P.M. and Inspector...........•.... 58.06

428
Name of Lod1e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repre.entativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Rio Vista _ _ _ _ _No. 208_Hale Meader, Junior Warden.............._ .. _
6.38
A. H. Hollenbeck, Past Master
C. Earl Stewart, Past Master
King David's ····-··-··-·No. 209.... Howard J. Stometta, Master.........:................ 35.98
Richard H. Hoffman, Senior Warden
Orin Com~ton, P.M. and Inspector......----·· 35.98
Gasper J. Weir, Jr .. Past Master
Friendship _ _ _ No. 210.... Ken B. Winslow, Master.................---·········· 4.54
Paul N. Holsinger, Senior Warden
Qlyde D. Goudie, Junior Warden
William Hershberger, Past Master
Forrest F. Van Dorsten, Past Master
San Benito _ _ _ _..No. 21 L_Albert W. Him, Elected Representative.. _.. 8.H
H. A. Hermansen, Past Master
South San Francisco _.No. 212.-Benjamin Barazoto, Master
Emil Winter, Senior Warden
John M. Donaldson, Junior Warden
George Anderson Lastein, Past Master
Andrew Zanetti, Past Master
San Buenaventura ___ No. 214-Henry L. Ward, Master..·-····························· 49.78
Reginald James, Senior Warden
John N. Oryden, Junior Warden
Oak Grove_
_No. 215.... Joseph L. Buzolich, Master
Oswald G. Ingold, Senior Warden
Philip A. C. Harris, Junior Warden
William H. Cox, Past Master
William Nankervis, Jr., Past Master
Doric ·---··-·---No. 216.... James S. Rose, Master
James D. Brownlee, Senior Warden
Stephen H. Brownlee, Junior Warden
Ira W. Coburn, Senior Grand Warden
Alexander Horne, Past Master
Samuel I. Jacobs, Past Master
Robert L. Levin, Past Master
Leonard S. Lurie, Past Master
Monterey
_No. 217.... Galyn C. Hammond, Senior Warden............ 11.52
C. Haskell Warren, Past Master
Mosak
___No. 218-John Needham. Master..·-······························· 4.54
Dooa1d F. Starclier, Senior Warden
Jack Stewart, Junior Warden
Niles B. Bentley, Past Master
Speranza ltallana....- ......No. 219._Riaymond M. Christain, Senior Warden
Ra~d J. Baldi, Junior Warden
V. L. Bruno, Past Master
John lcardi, Past Master
Downey -·--··-·No. 220._Garnett B. Cloud, Master.............................. 56.98
Paul A. Big~y. Senior Warden
Walter B. Meyers. Junior Warden
Oaudls T. Shirley, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Inyo ----··---···No. 221.._ T. Eugene Barrows, Senior Warden............ 54.38
Roseville ----·-····No. 222....0ak H. Gibson, Master..·--····-··················-· 10.14
Bakersfield _______No. 224..-Ernest R. Geoble, Master........·-················-··· 41.08
Garfield G. Laiblin. Senior Warden
William M. Pelmear, Junior Warden
J. Clifton Carpenter, P.M. and lnspeot.oc...... 41.08
James W. Borgman, Past Master
Samuel J. Kliewer, Past Master
Eugene C. Oldershaw, Past Master
Gordon W. Parker, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

429

Repreaentativea

Brooklyn -······--··--No. 225-Kenneth H. Solares, Master
Roy H. Lenthall, P.M. and Inspector
Don D. Holm, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
San Mateo --····--··-···No. 226.... William I. Emmons, Master
Alson C. Rodoni, Senior Warden
John T. McHugh, Junior Warden
Clarence C. Smith, P.M. and Inspector
Athens ····-···-····--No. 228_Gene L. McShane, Master.............................. 7.18
Vance A. Turner, Senior Warden
Robert R. Haussler, Past Master
Solano ···········--·-·--No. 229.... William D. Peden. Master............................ 3.30
Sam A. Stephens, lunlor Warden
Clarence E. Shoa , P.M. and Inspector........ 3.30
Paul J. Billings, Past Master
Robert 0. Gloeckner, Past Master
Russell C. Jones, Past Master
Raymond fi. Nivarel, Past Master
Edwin N. Sanders, Past Master
North Butte ·-··---No. 2JO_Paul F. Burlington, Master............................ 13.40
Kenneth A. Stafford, Senior Warden
Kenneth Mathews, Junior Warden
Clare B. Campbell, Ass't Grand Lecturtt...... 13.40
Covelo ··-········--··-·No. 231....Robert L. Gravier, Senior Warden................ 11.38
Janesville _______ No. 232 .... Stephen V. Warner, Master....·-·-······-···-·· 41.52
Calistoga ·········----No. 233.... Kenneth M. Hively, Senior Warden............ 7.00
Charles C. Case, Junior Warden
Hope ·····--········-······-··-·No. 234.... Daily W. Martin, Elected Representative.... 36.70
Surprise Valley ...........-No. 235.... Gordon Ash, Senior Warden. ...................... . 53.54
Hills Ferry -··············-····No. 236._William E. Thompson, P.M. and Inspector.. 10.28
Guadalupe ···········-·-·--No. 237...• Henry R. Gewe, Elected Representative..... . 39.10
Joe Oliver Elliott, Past Master
John Jenkins, Past Master
Colusa ---···-······-··-··-No. 24CL_N. W. Stice, Junior Warden.·-·-·······-······-· 12.62
Cressey J. Wescott, P.M. and Inspector...... 12.62
'
Wilmer G. Brill, Past Master
Warren Goddard Davison, Past Master
Santa Ana -··········-···-····No. 24L.John L. Taylor, Master................·-··-·········· 58.06
Charles R. Thomas, Senior Warden
A. H. Allen. Past Master
Albert F. Hill. Past Master
Magnolia ......•.................No. 242....Joseph C. Bidgood, Master........·-················· 47.20
Chester G. Hartman, Senior Warden
Paul T. MacQuiddy, Junior Warden
Carl H. Henrickson, Past Master
Delmer W. May, Past Master
Eucalyptus ····-·······-····No. 243.... Harold E. Redding, Master
Arlie R. Fleming, Senior Warden
Julius E. Vanerwegen, Junior Warden
Walter F. Flierl, Past Master
Hell!}' J. Keim, Past Master
W. Teuhert Smith, Past Master
Alcatraz ·········-···-········.No. 244.-Robert 0. Bergstrom, Master
Norman Soutar, Senior Warden
John F. Randolph, Past Master
J. G. Sjoberg, Past Master
Laurel ····-···············-_No. 245....William Allen Stockton, Senior Warden.... 26.92
Fred M. Roberts, Junior Warden
Pomona -·-···----No. 246__ Harold M. Christensen, Master.·-·-··-·--··-· 60.26
Eugene R. Overhok, Junior Warden
Joseph A. Allard. Jr., Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

130
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

Mileage Allowed

am T. Muncy, Master·-·--------------·---··-··· 30.98
Fresno ······ ·--·-- -No. 247..-Willi
Lester M. Grimm, Senior Warde n
Donald L. Anderson, Junior Warde n
George Hiatt, Past Master
John Loren Stewart, Jr., Past Master
..... ·--···--····--···--····-······· 50.18
Alturas -·······-·---····-···.No. 248 ____Van N. Riley, Master
M~ter_·····---·-- --------·- ···--·· 52.88
Bieber,
C.
ey
-_Aubr
..
250
o.
·--···N
··-···-·
--······
Adin
K. Haines, Senior Warde n... ·--····-····-·· 9.00
Landmark -······· ----··- No. 253.... Fred
H. R. Taber, Past Master
r L. Smith. Master...·-···-···-··················· 34.72
Reading -·--··-· ··-·-··-· :...No. 254.•..Walte
Edward A. Samuelson, Senior Warde n
Roy A. Avey, Junior Warde n
Albert A. Bryceson., P.M. and Inspector...... 34.72
Daniel C. McRae, Past Master
Albert F. Ross, Past Master··············-············· 34.72
William H. Sclhooler, Past Master
George W. Sturm, Past Master........·-············ 34.72
···-····-····-···· 32.68
Bill J. Wilson. Senior W ·arden..·....
255
No.
-···-············Welcome
J. Ra-Iph Dawdy, P.M. and Inspector....·-···-·· 32.68
S. Beckman. Master...................... 8.40
LodJ --·-· -··-- -No . 256....EUsworth
Gerald L. Christensen, Senior Warde n

-~~1~\;'~'ll'r.:k~J:t:_~~~~~---··-····-····-·

11.08
Penrhyn ···--·· --·--N o. 258.. Francis A. Nicholas, Junior Warde n
Jordan. Maste r....·-···················· ······· 62.40
Evergreen ___ ___No. 259._John G.
Everett C. Ross, Junior Warde n
Willar d G. Babcock, P.M. and Inspector______ 62.40
Byron C. Morton, Past Master....·-····-·-·--···· 62.40
tanley F. Breier, Master
260._.S
King Solomon's ···········-·No.
Ronald W. Tennler, Senior Warde n
Ulysses G. Patropulos, P.M. and Inspector
H. E. Bennett, Sr., Past Master
Charles F. Bw-rows, Past Master
Thomas W. Chinn. Past Master
Gerald Eugene Cook, Pa:st Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Stephen J. Dean. Jr., Past Master
John E. Werry , Past Master
William H. White, Past Master
tt.--- -···-··················· 11.82
Tusca n -···-···· -····--- -··No. 261....John D. Rice, MastSenior Warde n. ...·-···-·· 41.74
ck,
Headri
E.
Donald
....
262
···No.
-···········-······
Lompoc
L. Nickson, Master.......·-·-···-····-····· 39.10
Hesperian ···--·- ·····-·- No. 264_•. Amold
Marion A. Smith. Senior Warde n tor............ 39.10
Henry Drashner, P.M. and Inspec
D. W. Meredith, Past Master
Edwar d J. Pryor, Past Master
Donald E. Thomas, Past Master
Warde n..·-···-······· 28.32
Orland ·····-················-·····No. l6S_ W. Philip Romer, Senior
ented
Repres
ot
266-N
o.
·····-··.N
North East -··-······
Jr., Senior Wai-den.... 8.40
Galt ·-·-··· -····-· --__N o. 267_C lifford E. Northrup, Master
alley,
Giantv
V.
s
Thoma
_
..
268
No.
Duran t -···
Roger D. Gilmore, Senior Warde n
Leonard A. Komor, Junior Warde n
Niles 0. MiJJ!ar, P.M. and Inspector
Oliver J. Brown. Past Master
Melvin L. Jory, Past Master
Charles Ratkovich, Past Master
ax, Master......•.•....................• 35.18
Olive Branch ·-··-·· -·-No . 269_I rvin M.T.Mulan
Myron Van Etten, Senior Warde n
David L. Zack, Junior Warde n
homas E. Haskell, Junior Warde n...·-···-·· 17.20
271-T
No.
_
_
_
ain
Mount
Snow

Repreaentativea

No. of Lodge

431
Mileage Allowed

ames Kane, Jr., Mastt t........·---····n········· ·- 58.20
Paaadm a ---··· ·---N o. 272._JClaren
ce A. Oakley, Senior Warde
A. Dines, Junior Warde n
58.20
alpih T. Merriam, Past Master....................
...........-... 56.98
...........
Master
s,
William
L.
d
Richar
....
273
No.
____
Anchor ____
Otis D. Weddle, Senior Warde n
George Q. Evans, P.M. and lnspector...-....56.98
T. M. Newtson, Past Master
m R. Troxell. Senior Warden............ 37.18
Arroyo -········ -··-····- ···No. 274....Willia
Martin E. McCune, Past Master
Robert B. Watts, Past Master
, Senior Warde n. ...... -........ 9.92
Oakdale ·-··-········-·········No. 275..-Robe rt E. Chicou
R. Ransom, Senior Warde n.............. 32.54
Selma ····-···· -··-····· ·--··No . 277...•Gerald
Paul J. Nielsen, Past Master
us Stamps. Master..·-······-····-······-····· 56.98
Southern CaUforn!a._____ No. 278.... Leondr
G. Edward Byers, Senior Warde n
Lawrence Eliason, Junior Warde n
1. M. Askin, Past Master
H. E. McComas, Past Master
Harold V. Spender, Past Master
. J. Angelo, Senior Warde n-·-···· ·········· ··· 31.88
279-...C
···No.
··········
-·······Hanford
D. M. Stuart. Junior Warde n
, Senior Warden........................ 29.10
Madera ---······ ···-····· ··..No. 280._.. L. E. Biggerr,
D. C. Winde Junior Warde n
Moss, Mast er--·- ···-··· ···-- 33.62
Mt. Shasta ...................._No. 28 !....AnthonyS. B.
Robert Rutherford, }ii"., Senior Warde n
Wai-den.-······-··········· 5.50
Callayoml ···-···-· ··-·····- No. 282.... Lewis Simonic, Junior
Warde n......•....... 67.70
Senior
an,
Cornm
W.
Lyle
....
283
o.
····-···N
South West ···········
Clifford G. Anderson, Junior Warde n
Robeort H. Bettlestone, Past Mastt t
Edward C. Wrigh t, Sr.• Past Master
Elected
San Miguel -·····-············-No. 285.... Bernhard M. Ersepke,
Representative ········ ···--··· -·-················ 31.74
Moss, Master,........---····- ··-····-· ········ 32.70
Paso Robles ___ __ No. 286_.A. D.VanVo
rst, Senior Warde n
Earl
C. W. West, Past Master
M. Kunkel, Senior Warde n....·-····--· ·· 48.80
Winnedumah --··············No. 287.. _Clair
Wilfre d W. Partridge, P.M. and Inspector.. 48.80
ney, Elected
Maxwell --···- ·······-·No. 288_...George Dewey Mc:Kin
12.60
Representative ·····-····-·······-······-············· 63.90
0. Barnett, Master...·-·- ·-·-· ····-···
Elsinore ·-·-····· ·······-· ·-No. 289_.. RalJ'h
James D. Basiger, Senior Warde n
Howard G. Habenicht. Past Master
Davis, Master......................•....-. 56.98
East Gate ················-······No. 290.. _.John Oliver
Hugh Allen Dinning, Senior WaT"den
John Allen Crosby. Past Master
Curtis Clyde Orrell, Past Master
Emlyn William Reese, Past Master
oy R. Moore, Master--·---···-·················· 50.78
291.._R
o.
Santa Paula ··-·-·············N
Woodr ow H. Pittman, Senior Warde n
Francis W. Hertel, Jr., Junior Warde n
H. Corbin, Master.·-·-·····················--··-· 5.64
Los Gatos --··-··· ········· ·No. 292 .... Frank
Clarence W. Bun-ier, Jr.• Senior Warde n
Fred Berryman, Past Master
Earl R. Haskell, Past Masteor
Frank E. Jameson, Past Master
D. Sappington, Senior Warden..__ 59.62
Orange Grove ···-···········No. 293._.William
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Masteor
r.·---· ·-·-··· ··········· 33.00
•.No. 294.-B arry K. 81!1'11, MasteMaste
Trave r r
Robert N. Rouch. Past
Gordoo E. Scott, Past Master

koe

432
Name o( Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mi1eage Allowed

Mt. Jadcaon ____ __No. 295.._Samuel W. Auman, Master............................ 7.86
Donald R. Chenoweth, Senior Warden
Silver Gate -···-···-··-·No. 296.... Aylmer H. Keith, Master...-........................... 67.70
G. Merton Rose, Senior Warden
Theodore F. McWilliams, Junior Warden
F.red S. Weed, P.M. and Inspector................ 67.70
Willard A. Braasoh, Past Master
Master....·-··········---···---- 40.00
Paul A.C.Radebaugh,
D """-uir
No 297····Robert
Harris, Senior Warden
····-···---- •
.............
._ _ _ _ _ No. 299....Rlchard M. Brown, Master......... -................. 4.54
Harry M. Morris, Senior Warden
Gordon W. Hodam, Junior Warden
John W. Baker, Jr.. P.M. and Inspector........ 5.34
Chester J. Grant, Past Master
_____ No. 300.. _Edward F. McLennan, Senior Warden...... _ 63.18
Redlands
William H. Smith, Junior Warden
- ··
Kenneth Dowell, P .M. and Inspector............ 63.18
Clement F. Patton, Past Master
No 301 Paul R. Gardner, Sr., Senior Warden.......... 60.72
Outa lo
··-Theron W. Worstine, Junior Warden
r -·····----- •
Santa Luda _____ __No. 302.... Wilson T. Prewett, Junior Warden.............. 14.94
Ree C. Grim. Past Master
Fred Y. Mar, Past Master
..No. 303_.William F. Braly, Maater..............·-······-·- 37.34
Porterville
Eugene N. Willey, Senior Warden
---Harold F. Wiloox, Junior Warden
Reedley ·-·-·····-··-·--···No. 304.... Paul H. Petersen, Junior Warden..·-······-····· 33.34
No 305 . Paul W. Nichols, Master................................ 58.06
"···Donald D. Ryrie, Senior Warden
ru;usa -···-····-·--··- •
Ashlar __________ No. 306.... George Edgar Berresford, Senior Warden.. 62.40
John Prince, Junior Warden
Robert W. Nicol, P.M. and Inspector.......... 62.40
Charles H. Purkiss, Past Master
No. 307-..Albert F. Schub, Muter...·-····-·-··--·--··· 56.98
Santa Monica
Walter R. Ringwald, Senior Warden
Monrovia -··--··-·····No. 308.... Horace W. Boulton, Master................·-··-··· 58.06
James D. Ferrell, Senior Warden
______ No. 309.. _Jack Forgey Boone, Mast~r·········-·······---·· 38.12
Delano
Marvin Jacobs Sands. Semor Warden
Sisson ·-····--·-··············No. 310....Harland R. Williams, Master........·-············· 41 .38
No 312 .Delbert S. Small, Senior Warden.........- ....... 12.14
r __ Banos
···Frank J. Brown, Junior Warden
•
···-·········--··
l...ul'I
TheodOre Charles Conwell, Past Master
Tehachapi _ _ _ _No. 313.. _Not Represented
Temescal --···----···No. 314 .... Maurice Gain Robinson, Senior Warden...... 58.06
Robert Edgar Francisco, Junior Warden
Jahn Ewing Kirkpatrick. Past Master
Norwalk ______ No. 315-Ralph D. Manes, Muter....- ......................... 58.06
Harold Bingham, Senior Warden
J.B. Parker, Junior Warden
San er ________ No. 316.. _Wayne E. Burk, Senior Warden.................. 31.98
Leo J. Green, Past Master
g
FaDbrook _______No. 317.. _John M. Segina, Senior Warden.................. 65.60
Emmanuel -·-·-·-··--No. 318.. _Herhert J. Meyers, Elected Representative.. 13.68
Hollenbeck ______No. 319.••• Robert F. Bergmann, Master..............·--······· 56.98
Alfred R. Simmons, Senior Warden
Robert B. Burton, Junior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, P.M. and Inapeotor.....---·······- 56.98
F.rancis W. Peters, Past Master

Name o( Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativa

433
Milea11e AIJo...,d

South Gate --···--.....No. 320._Lloyd J. Ashcraft, Master....•••...•·-·······-·- 56.98
Don F. Anders, Senior Warden
Mark A. Green, Past Master.................,...-... 56.98
David H. Terry, Put Master
··---No. 32l_George Riddell, Maater..·---·-···-··-·-- 3.90
Alisa!
Revis E. Wensel, Sen.tor Warden
H. C. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra --·-----No. 322.... Edward F. Carson, Master.·----····--··-··- 56.98
Leon Wile-moo, Senior Warden
William G. Yerger, Junior Warden
James I. C.ondie, Past Master
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
Whittler - - - - - N o . 323._Roy J. Fisher, Master..............·-··········-····-·- 58.38
William 0. Jackson, Senior Warden
Roscoe W. Farris, Past Master
Clarence W. Peck, Past Master
Corona ····-·-····-·--No. 324.••• Roy J. Rasmussen, Master................•...·-······· 58.20
Stuart A. Warren, Senior Warden
Gordon F. Porter, P.M. and Inspector... -·-·· 58.20
Edward H. Rowins. Past Master
Consuelo ·--·····--··-·-No· 325._.Stewart McLeon, Senior Warden....·-··-······· 65.60
Needles ···-·-··---····--..No. 326.... EJbert E. Wilks, Master..·-····--··--·-···--··-· 64.88
Leooard Walker, Senior Warden
William R. Carty, Past Master
Loog Beach -····-·---No. 327.... Qeorge P. Calderwood, Master.................._ 56.98
Sherwin W. Tubbs, Senior Warden
John H. Ferguson, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Henry G. Van Dyke, Past Master
Redondo __________ No. 328.... Eldon B. Morgan, Master..·--·--·····-···-· 56.98
Robert L. Tucker, Junior Warden
George S. Fairbrother, Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Master
Vallee De France ___ No. 329.._Michel Gaul, Master....·-··--·········-·····-- 56.98
Jules Des Forges, Senior Warden
Charles A. Thomas.set, P.M. and Inspector.. 56.98
Andre Caen, Past Master
Kilauea ---··--···No. 330.... William Lloyd Gillespie, Senior Warden.... 381.19
Pacific Grove ______ No. 331....Daniel B. Turrentine, Master..·-·····-·--- 11.68
Robert H. Davis, Senior Warden
Ellsworth H. Burson, Junior Warden
Arch Balchin, P.M. and Inspector....•.·-··-··· 11.68
Edwin Arthur Cope, Past Master
San Pedro ·------No. 332._John H. Maule, Senior Warden....·-···········- 56.98
Joseph L. Beiley, Junior Warden
Alta - ·· - - - - ···-·--No. 333.._Ray Oiarlebois, Senior Warden.................... 43.50
August He~. Junior Warden
____ No. 334....Wayne C. Bates, Master_·······-··-······-··· - 59.46
Covina •
William E. Hensley, Senior Warden
A N. Bradley, Junior Warden
Robert M. Henry, Past Master
West Gate ·--·····-·-··--No. 335.... Benjamin Butt, Master.................................... 56.98
Zoltan Tronstein, Senior Warden
Sam L. Franklin, Junior Warden
John M. Hayden, Past Master
Saul N. Lehds, Past Master
Fruitvale -··---·-·-···No. 336.... Arthur G. Berger, Master
Leonard 0. Hansen, Senior Warden
William H. Baker, Junior Warden
Arthur Alfred Barber, Past Master
Paul A. Brom, Past Master

434
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreoentativet

435

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Milea1e Allowed

Samuel Lincoln Hancock. Past Master
Ru~ll Carl Horstmann, Past Master
Edward August Tuchsen, Past Master
Carq_uinez ___________No. 337.... Warren Fisher. Senior Warden···-·········· ··· 2.82
San Jacinto _______No. 338.... Ruphus F. Swift, Elected Representative...._ 67.12
Fullerton --·----No . 339.... Merrill D. Vantuyl, Master............................ 58.06
James B. Hanke, Jr .• Senior Warden
W. L. Currie, Past Master
William T. Rodger, Past Master
Oxnard ___________No. 341....Ronald E. Jones, Master................................ 50.72
Rolland C. Steele, Senior Warden
Orvene S. Carpenter. Junior Warden
No 343 Marion L. Johnson, Master...........- ............... 56.98
San Fernando
L. Duffin, Senior Warden
····Elgin
•
--·--Glenn A. Long, Junior Warden
11heiJmas L. Biddison, Past Masttt
Louis H. Boone, Past Master
William H. Knapp, Past Master
Starr King -·········---No. 344.... Arthl.U' S. Becker, MaWster d
ar en
Jack Gordon, Senior
Ronald J. Miguel, Junior Warden
Alfred F. Breslauer, Grand Master
Charles Becker, Grand Marshal
Al H . BaTkoff, Past Master
Daniel J. Breslauer, Past Master
Hal Curtis, Past Master
Merrill N. Howe, Past Master
Miclmel V. lgndtz, Past Master
Bernard J. Joseph, Past Master
Ben A. Katz, Past Master
Charles 0. Munson, Past Master
A. Salomon. Past Master
Manuel Stern, Past Master
Heiman L. Wayne, Past Master
Albert C. Wotlenberg, Past Master
Brentwood _____ __No. 345.... Glenn M. Hutchison, Master................- - 5.88
V:emon E. Turley, Senior Warden
Oren A. Howard, Past Master
.. No. 346.... John F. Roberts, Jr .• Master............................ 2.94
Palo Alto
Lloyd M. Hanns, Senior Warden
Eugene T. Wihitten, Junior Warden
L. Harold Anderson. Past Grand Master
Ralph S. Brokaw, Past Master
George Ernest King, Past Master
Adam B. Morten, Past Master
Milton B. Roller, Past Master .................... 5.64
No. 347.... Troy Anderson. Master
McKJnley
Horace H. Wamcxk, Senior Warden
Tamie! S. SilberD!'an, Junior Warden
Charles Baptie, Past Master
F. R. DeBarrows, Past Master
Williram E. Ricltmond, Past Master
No 348 Donald T. Wri"'ht, Master............................ 61.91
San Bernardino
····Walter A. TI:mpkins. Senior Warden
··--····- '
John M. Heron. Past Master
Victor N.1-fodAe, Past Master
Sequoia ________No. 349.... Milan T. Fell, Master
Donald F. Gipson, Senior Warden
James B. Margetts, Junior Warden
Clarence Reidenbach, Grand Chaplain
Heri>ert S. Bigelow, Past Master
George C. Courreges, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Milea1e Allowed

Merrila D. Coy, Past Master
Wallace L. Etterbeek, Past Master
Frank D. Gatter, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
J. Waker Proctor, Past Master
Henry S. Savage. Past Master
Kenneth S. Thomson, Past Master
Palestine ·····-······............ No. 351..•• J. Nelan Breese, Master..................................
Forrest Hire.m Denton, Junior Warden
Benjamin R. Jordan, Past Master
Sunset -·---····-···-····-·N o. 352....Joe W. Adams, Senior Warden....................
Melvin E. Austin, Junior Warden
J'ohn H. Hardy, Past Master
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
WH!iam Kludjian, Past Master
Pinole -··-·-····-···-··-N o, 353._James W. Huddleston, Master........................
A1fred L. Freitas, Senior Warden
Presidio .................____ No. 354.... Neilson V. Cardinal, Master
Wayne F. Hamilton, Senior Warden
David R. Noah, Junior Warden
Joseph Myron Ruggiero, P.M. and Inspector
Alexander L. Croce, Past Master
Lawrence T. Elleson. Past Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master
W. D. Ve.rbarg, Past Master
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood ...............- ...No. 355....James F. Davidson, Master............................
Philip G. Wood, Senior Warden
Corydon J. Glazier, Junior Warden
Leo E. Anderson. Past Grand Mastes-._.........
Samuel Steelman, P.M. and Inspector_,______
Wiallace H. Beaudry, Past Master

~Jr: P.'B~lC::. ~M~;;;:....................

56.98
56.98

2.36

56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

Milton R. Entwistle, Pa:st Master
&win H. Gebhardt, Past Master
Rd:>ert T. Gilmore, Past Master
Fred E. Green, Past Master
Ward J. Henry, Past Master
Ira W. Menill, Past Master
Mill Valley ....- ..............No. 356.... George J. Burt, Master
Moms E. Burch, Senior Warden
Harold R. Henry, Junior Warden
Stanley C. Ai.tchison, Past Master
Henry D. Lackewandt, Past Master
Frederick A. Penn, Past Master
Melvin J. Schallock, Past Master
Kent Seymour, Past Master
Buena Park ......................No. 357•.•l~:stts~e~~~~~~-;d;~······················· 58.06
Ted R. Siems. P.M. and Inspector................ 58.06
Golden State ................_No. 358_Glen Brown. Muter........................................ 56.98
George R. Brawn, Senior Warden
Burton Meyer, Jr., P .M. and Inspector.......... · 56.98
Wlnfteld R. Cram, Past Master
Loyalton ·-······--····--No . 359.... Not Represented
San Francisco ................No. 360.... Albert Franklin Enderlin. Master
William Herbert Hook, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary
Charles C. Brewer, Past Master
Wil'liam F. Jebe, Past Master

436
Name of Lodp

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representative•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mlleaae Allowed

Charles D. Johnson, Past Master
Charles Hugh Roddan, Past Master
Milton T. Simmons, Past Master
Port Bragg --·-·--··No. 361.._Hjalmer Sanford Hautala, Senior Warden.. 18.16
OJarlty _______ _.No. 362.... ~u<l~;h l~~i!~. ~~~tM·~·~i~~·-··················· 5.34
William H. Scott, Past Master
Berkeley ···-·····--··-·.No. 363.... Robert D. Wooten, Master
Donald K. Akey, Senior Warden
John R. Ingram, Junior Warden
William H. Adams, Past Master
Oliver E. Mclean. Past Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Willits ---···-No. 365.... Donald M. Prey, Master................................ 13.26
Merle G. Taylor, Junior Warden
Lu Palmas _____No. 366....George B. Posson, Senior Warden.......... _.... 30.98
Allard D. Dadmun, Junior Warden
Thurman D. Moyers, Past Master
South Pasadena ___ .•••.No. 367.... Lawrence S. Kennan, Master........................ 58.20
Russel E. Cave, Senior Warden
Wendell F. Hockersmith, Junior Warden
George W. Roche, Past Master
Patrick J. Thompsett, Past Master
limty _______No. 368....lrvy W. Hardaway, Master........................ 56.32
C. Lee Skillman, Senior Warden
Arthur M. Johnson, Junior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Deputy Grand Master........-.. 67.70
Fred M. Clark, Past Master.......................... 56.32
Arthur A. Coughlin, Past Master
Carl 0. Craig, Past Master
H. L. Hostetter, Past Master
William E. S. Jarrett, Past Master
C. Leland Jenkins, Past Master
James C. McCluskey, Past Master
Homer E . Rat!hbun, Past Master
Hugo C. Roark, Past Master
Ocean Park _______No. 369.... Earl E. Mcilvain, Master..............·-·········-·-· 56.98
Clifford E. McMaster, Junior Warden
Theodore B. FaC'h, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Hal A. Dumas, Past Master
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
Amity - - · · - - N o . 370.... Donald P. Canady, Master
L. Carl Petersen, Senior Warden
Robert E. Pinom.aki, Junior Warden
Paul A. PHueger, Assistant Grand Treasurer
William A. Cohendet, Past Master
Henry 0. Hammerich, Past Master
V. V. Kolombatovic, Past Master
U. D. Mackins, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry, Past Master
Christo M. Pallas, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oc:eanle....No. 371.._Charles C. Kippen, Jr., Senior Warden........ 338.19
Alan H. Strike, Past Master
Gardena
No. 372-Robert E. Crist. Master..........·--·······-········· 56.98
Zenus E. Martin. Senior Warden
Hugh W. Pitman, Junior Warden
Keith W. Schlaegel, Past Master·-·--·-····· 56.98
West Los Angeles --.No. 373.-Harold W. Hasbrouck, Master..........·-········· 56.98
.
Alva G. Teel, Senior Warden
·
Robert E. Clark, Junior Warden
., •
. :. . ~bert O. M~ews. Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

llepreeentativee

437
Mileaae Allowed

Jewel --····-·-······-··-·No. 374.. _Al King. Master
Philip C. Tudor, Senior Warden
Rexford Elder, Junior Warden
Leo Bruck, Past Master
S. C. Leonhaeuser, Past Master
Emile Meyer, Past Master
Williard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Herbert H. Schultz, Past Master
C. J. Shipaugh, Past Master
William Van Ornwn, Past Master
Richmond ···-····-······__No. 375 ...• Lloyd R. Van Auken, Master
James McCubbin, Senior Warden
Clarke R. Trethewey, Junior Warden
Alfred J. &unner, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
M. W. Erickson, Past Master
James Leo Halley, Past Master
James W. Halley, Past Master
Alfred T. l'viorris, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Master
Herbert 0. Shoemaker, Jr., Past Master
Francis Drake -········---No. 376.... Arthur F. Blomquist, Master
Morris M. Eisenbrey, Senior Warden
Kenneth Herbert Dowd, Junior Warden
Artesia -··········--·-No. 377_Garland I. Barnes, Senior Warden..·--·········
Roy D. Blackwell, Junior Warden
Victor N. Johnson, Past Master
Harold L. Whitney, Past Master
Mizpah
.No. 378_George A. Ryder, Master...·-···-·--·--·Grady McDowell, Senior Warden
Robert L. LePrancols, Junior Warden
George W. Perkins, P.M. and Inspector......
Fillmore -·····-···-··-···No. 379.... 0. L. Sundquist, Master.·-·······················-··Preddy Thrower, Senior Warden
William L. Donnan, Junior Warden
Huntington Beach - .....No. 380.... Alan T. Ries, Master...............·-···-····-·········
Dexter G. WhitBeld, Senior Warden
Berrell R. Ries, P.M. and Inspector·-··-··-·
Oceanside _ _ _ _ _No. 381.... Douglas M. Craig, Master_______
James L. Loasdon, Senior Warden
Charles Baldridge, Junior Warden
Kenneth C. Stanley, P.M. and Inspector......
Highland Park --·--·-No. 382....George B. Corbin, Master...·-····-·······-·····
Thorrias J.B. Gleason, Junior Warden
Oros! --···-----No. 383.... Carroll E. Cannon, Master--···········--·J. Reed Munn, Senior Warden
Arthur Marrelli, Junior Warden
Jack Peloian, Past Master
EI Centro ...----No. 384....Alfred R. Tagg, Muter..·-·--····-·····--Robert S. Burke, Senior Warden
Elmer W. Heald. Junior Grand Wazden.... _
Norbert P. Tester, P.M. and Inspect.or...-...
Darrall G. Dixon, Past Master
H. H. Peterson, Past Master
Dinuba -····-···--No. 385_Carl M. Steele, Senior Warden..·-····---·Clarence L. Fraser, P.M. and Inspector........
hllhur A. Anderson, Past Master
Coalinga ···············-·--··No. 387._Gary 0. Jardon, Senior Warden..·-·············
Raymond A. Booth, Junior Warden
Fra«;ik W. Specu:, Past Master

58.06

56.98
56.98
51.38 .
56.98
56.98
64.20
64.20
56.98

34.10

77.68
77.68
77.68
33.80
33.80
34.88

438
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Parnassus ···-···········--··No. 388.... Robert C. Thomson, Master
Robert E. Petersen, Senior W Mden
John F. Palmer, Junior Warden
James E. Finley, P.M. and Inspector
Ahilip R. Chapin, Past Master
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Palos Verdes ..................No. 389 ..••Ernest H. Fick, Master..............·-········-------·· 56.98
Herbert M. Cronquist, Senior Warden
Imperial ·-·-····-··-···_No . 390.._Tommy Marvin Neff, Master_...................... 77.22
Arthuc Henry Hart, Senior Warden
East Belt ···············-····-···No. 391_Frank Willard Parlk:er, Master..................... . 12.32
Waldo George Waelty, Senior Warden
George Gray Hard, Junior Warden
Wallace H. Fiske, P.M. and Inspector.......... 12.32
West Lake ·····-···-······No. 392 ....Ted R. Perello, Master....·-··-····-····-··········-·· 56.98
G. Paul Falbaum, Senior Warden
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Frallik R. Brunner, Past Master
Vernon E. ,Mitchell, Past Master
Robert C. Peyton, Past Master..------------· ···---- 56.98
John A. Sickenberger, Past Master
Balder ···-······················-·No. 393...• Hazelton French, Master
Clifford Bloom, Senior Warden
Stanley E. Gustavson, Junior Warden
Harry M. Michelsen, P.M. and Inspector
Fred M. Hartwick, Jr., Past Master
LeRoy W. Johnson, Past Master
Alvar F. Larson, Past Master
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Past Master
Clarence Mcguin, Past Master
Hugo T. A. Olsson, Past Master
Victor C. Peterson, Past Master
University ········-·······-···No. 394...•t~hER.~~:,~~~"\v~;d;~····--·---······ 56.98
Myron Smirth, Grand Orator..-·······-------···· 56.98
W. T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master
F!l."ed W. Morris, Past Master
Turlock ···-·········-····--No. 395.... Ceci.l M. Baites, Master..·-····················--·····-··· 10.90
Oharles 0. Read, Senior Warden
Benjamin H. Pettus, Jun!O!I." Warden
Ernest R. Gaster, Past Master
Howard L. Rose, Past Master
John H. Seyden, Past Maste!I."
Apollo -·--·····-···········N o. 396..•.Kay W. Sorensen, Master
Maynard J. Beckie, Senior Warden
Harry B. Conway, Jr., Junior Warden
Affred Johnson, P.M. and Inspector
Carl E. Thau, Past Maste!I."
David P. Russell. Past Master
RI.sing Light •................•_No. 397.._Charles G. Bamett, Master........·-···-···-·····-·· 56.98
Charles D. Ackerman, Senior Warden
Alfred A. Dowers, Junior Warden
Fraternity --·-·········-No. 399.-George Harold Larson, Master..·-·····-········· 4.54
James Theodore Sarris, Senior Warden
William Thacker Leever, JuniOC' Warden
Burlingame _______No. 40Q_J. Finley Thompson, Master
H. Glenn Stirm. Senior Warden
John L. Cre]Jlfn, Junior Warden
Walter C. Scllafu, Paat Master

Name of Lodge

No . of Lodge

Representatives

439
Mileage Allowed

Bay View -······················No. 401....Charles W. Bishop, Master
Robert L. Hussey, Senior Warden
M. C. Buckley, Junior Warden
Eugene H. Dopp. Past Master
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley --···-···-····--No . 402....0mer K. BarnhUI, Master.............................. 76.42
William D. Presley, Senior Warden
Yerba Buena .......•..........No. 403.... Charles W. Martin, Senior Warden
William M. Gibson, Jr., Junior Warden
William H. Gribble, Past Master
Lester S. MCEiwain, Past Master
Glendora ··-·····-···-·······No. 404....Roger L. Jacquay, Senior Warden................ 58.06
C. Hubert Lankford, Past Master
Moneta -···············-······-···No. 405....Lee W. Antis, Master........·--··-··················· 56.98
George S. Nye, Senior Warden
E. Jack Bodenhamer, Junior Warden
C. Ben Chadderton, Past Master
J. S. Watkins, Past Master
Burbank ·····················--·No. 406..-Richard B. Carter, Master.............................. 56.98
Dean E. Oswald, Senior Warden
W. D. Hopkins, Past Master
Henry Knolbmller. Past Master
Grover C. Swart, Past Master
La Mesa -··-·······-······-·No . 407_.. R. Wayne Fillpot, Master·-············------------· 68.40
0. Glen Moran, Senior Warden
Henry A. Lamibert, Junior Warden
Lorenzo H. Shaw, P.M. and Inspector.......... 68.40
Sierra Madre -··············No. 408_]ohn C. Bowman, Senior Warden.................. 58.06
Dominic J. Boggio, Junior Warden
Samuel L. Graiham, Past Master
Honolulu -······-··-·······No. 409._Franklyn William Gager, Senior Warden.. 338.19
Robert Edgar, P.M. and Inspector.............. 338.19
Howard Harvey Hitchcock, Past Master
Charter Rock ···-······-·····No. 410....James F. Gallardo, Master
•
Danald E. Hagerman, Junior Warden
Arthur L. Pattecson, Past Master
Ralph A. Stwiley, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Perris ----··-··----N o. 411.._Miclrael Gilden. Senior Warden..·- ----------·-· 63.50
Calexico ·····-···············-No. 412....'11homas M. Reming,ton, Master.................... 78.42
Joe D. P~ee, Senior Warden
Arlington - - · -·-·····-No. 414_Melvin V. Palmer, Senior Warden.............. 56.98
Silver Trowel ·········-··No. 415 •._Gene Garf, Master...·-·····-····-·-········-·--------·· 56.98
I. W. Wilson, Senior Warden
Thurman Teague, Junior Warden
V. A. Gatewood, Past Master
Irvin Shulkin, Past Master
Howard C. White, Past Master
Lindsay --···-·········__No. 416_Tom R. Sims, Master-····-········· ············-···- 36.42
Donald K. Umders, Senior Warden
Alva A. Daniel:ls, P.M. and Inspector... -------· 36.42
Clovis -···········-···-·-··N o. 417._.Alvin H. January, Jr., Senior Warden.......... 31.78
Elysian -···-···-·········--No. 418_Charles K. Sc:hertle, Senior Warden.........-- 56.98
Audrey L. Smith, Junior Warden
Lloyd A. Park, Past Master
Harry E. Templeton, Past Master
Guy Wooley, Past Master
Upland -··-··-···--·····-N o. 419__ TClord H. BeriJ, SeniO!I." Warden......-.............. 60.72
arence G. Gordon, Junior Warden
J. Harry SDOW'den, Past Master

440
Name of Lodee

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentativeo

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Kennan ·-·-·-····--····--N o. 420.•-~~~·~.h ~;g!';fp;;;tii.ii;;;;····-·········

0

Inglewood -·---···__No. 42L..Marlon B. Burke, Master-·-·························
William D. Richardson, Senior Warden
John C. Gebhart, Junior Warden
Claude E. Cole, Past Master
J. Loran Robertson, Past Master
Edwin N. Stansel. Past Master
Eagle Rocle ·····-····-····--·No. 422.... John H. Mihld, Master...---···-·························
Tod E. Stice, Senior Warden
Thomas A. Lorenzen, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Adams, Past Master
Tames E. Calhoun, Past Master
Thomas A. Mooney, Past MasteT
York
___ No. 423.._Horace H. Campbell, Muter..·-······-·············
James F. Restivo, Senior Warden
Exeter
___No. 424....Dale W. Eddy, Master.·-··- ·····················
Floyd E. Brown, Senior Warden
Holtville -·-··--··--No . 425.... Lowell W. Sutherland, Senior Warden........
Midway
No. 426.... Alton E. Coltrin, Master................................
Leo S. Brenneman, Senior Warden
Walter E. Wahl, Junior Warden
Robert A. Smith, Past Master........................
Otino Valley _____No. 427___ Kenneth H. Wyse, Senior Warden...-.........
E. C. Brinderson, Junior Warden
R. W. C. Storms, Past Master
San Dimas _____ _No. 428 ....Joseph Sh~iro, SeniOll" Warden..·-···············
Waldo G. Martin, Junior Warden
James Milne, Past MasteT
Pitt.burg _
No. 429.... Cecil A. Smith, Master...- --·····--·····-·············
Earl A. Robinson, Junior Warden
W. Ralph Anderson, P.M. and Inspector...-.
John C. Brown, Past Master
Harold E. Wildes, Past Master
McOoud _ _ _ _•...No. 430....J. G. Caswell, Senior Warden......................
Phil N. Myers, Past Grand Master..............
Percy W. Lindt, P.M. and Inspector...- .......
Alpha
.No. 43L..F. Ray Thompson, Master
Kenneth C. Wright, Senior Warden
Kenneth B. Henson, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks. Past Master
Anshelm S. Remell. Past Master
Hammonton ---·---·No. 433.... Raymond W. Richardson, Master................
Wayne A. Dahling, P.M. and Inspector......
Maricopa
No. 434...James B. Daly, Jr., Senior Warden....·-·-···
Carl E. Moore, P.M. and Inspector..............
Fairmount ..
No. 435__ William Peter Olson, Master
Walter Edwin Waite, Senior Warden
Ivan Crase, Past Master
Victor L. DeMartini, Past Master
Pieter A. de Vries, Past MasteT
Edmund R. Pootel. Past Master
Robert W. Rose, Past Master
William H. Scott. Past Master
loseph A. Teresi, Past Master
Claremoat
No. 436_Thomas W. Moffett, Senior Warden.-····--Phillip R. Williams. Junior Warden
George Dennis Lober, P.M. and Inspector....
Laoc:aater .
No. 437_James E. Head. Master...- - - · -- ··········
C. H. Redford. Senior Warden
James E~ Bacon, P.M. and lnspeotor•....•.•---·
. WiJJ.iam D. Knight. Past Master

29.88
56.98

56.98

56.98
35.76
78.48
43.58
43.58
60.72
58.06
4.68
4.68
41.38
56.98
40.00

12.98
11.68
43.88
43.88

58.06
58.06
49.66
49.66

Name of Ledee

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativeo

441
Mileaa:e Allowed

William W. Skelton, Past MaSteT
Vernon D. Ward, Past Master
Tyrlan ---···
No. 439_Norman J. Zwingle, Master.......................- - 8.10
Harold Michael, Senior Warden
Delbert E. Luck, P.M. and Inspector............ 8.10
Stanley Mortensen, Past Master
Standard ---··-··-·-No . 440.... Cecil Jackson, Master
Lyle Floyd Fowler, Senior Warden
Maurice Cherry, Junior Warden
Coronado ---·--No. 441....Richard H . Gifford, Senior Warden............- 67.70
Lawrence R. Hutson, Junior Warden
Glen C. Holbert, Past Master........................ 67.70
Donald W. Stubbs, Past Master
Blackmer No. 442__George A. Gray, Master---·-···-··- ··········· 67.70
Kenneth B. Barnes, Senior Warden
John A. Wright, Junior Warden
Oscar H . Nelson, P.M. and Inspector.......... 67.70
Frank R. Porath, Past Master
Charles J. Savage, Past Master
Orno E. Tyler, Past Master
SchoBeld ______ No. 443....George F. Gieser, Senior Warden. ......... _ ... 338.19
Charles A. Battige, Past Master
Robert C. Kong, Past Master
Carpinteria --···-····---No. 444....Ralph M . Brown, Senior Warden..........____ 48.24
Clifford C. Benedict, Past Master
Wilshire --···-·······--·No . 445.... Richard 0. Montrief, Master........................ 56.98
George V. H. Smith, Senior Warden
Frederick Edwin Clark, P .M. and Inspector 56.98
Herbert A. Huebner, Past Master.................. 56.98
John S. Hunt, Past Master
Henry E. Mortimer, Past Master
La Puente ·······---No. 446....Jack Ledford Patterson, Senior Warden...... 58.86
Karl Franklin Gluesing, Junior Warden
Torrance --······-·---No . 447__ Frands L. Lehr, Senior Warden.................. 56.98
Oharles R. Myers, Junior Warden
•
Leonard D. Babcock, Past Master
Mt. Diablo _ _ _ __No. 448....Enes G. Tatro, Master_·-·····--···· ··-········-··· 2.10
Eugene R. Perkins, Senior Warden
Thomas L. Dyer, Junior Warden
Verne W. Hendrix, Junior Grand Deaoon..... 2.10
Gordon W. Lindsey, Past Master
Park
+.9•..• Kennet!h H. Kerns, Master
Jo.seph J. Sanford, Senior Warden
James 't. Jensen, Jr., Junior Warden
Arthur W. Bennett, Past Master
Reginald Duden, Past Master
John Ferguson, Past Master
Robert E. Hannan, Past Master
Glenn W. ~;;iynard, Past Master
William D. Wickwire, Past Master
Van Nuys -----No. 450.... Paul A. Wynne, Master.................................. 56.98
William W. Dickson, Jr., Senior Warden
Ray D. Martin, Junior Warden
Harold S. Morrison, P.M. and Inspector.____ 56.98
Montebello •
No. 451_Leonard Rasmussen. Master.- - ····----- 56.98
B. F. Kearney, Senior Warden
A. E. Earnshaw, Junior Warden
Frank L. Sutliff, P.M. and lnspeclla'..........._ 56.98
Menrille L. Lamb, Past Master
San Pasqual ·-··----No. 452..•. Qi.rl A. Bergfalk, Master..........·-··-···-·········· 58.20
· .:
Virga! Z. Vaughain. Senior Warden
Gilbert G. Pfeil, Paat Maeter

---·-·---.N o.

442
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representative•

Mileage Allowed

Ro.ss H. Rittgers, Past Master
Donald G. White, Past Master
Crocker ···--···············-·-No. 454.. _Leslle Oscar Ginsberg, MasterW---'
Stanley Joseph Higgins, Senior ....-uen
Rd>ert J. Keith, Junior Warden
Russell M. Bass, Past Master
Byron c.oieman, Past Master
M. Jay Jensen, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
John C. Painter, Past Master
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West ..................No. 455.... Burtis Graham Davidson, Master
Homer Da:le Day. Senior Warden
William M. Lustenberger, Junior Warden
AdaLph P. Bilay, Past Master
Earle B. Brehaut, Past Master
G. Robel't Brockmann, Past Master
Heroert H. Eling, Past Master
Norman Reed, Past Master
Ramona ..........................-No. 457.... Eugene E. Greene, Senior WWarrdden.............. 56.98
William A. Willson, Junior a en
Arnold G. Robertson, P.M. and Inspector.... 56.98
John E. Harvey, Past Master
Henry S. Orme ·····-·······No. 458..-0arence A. Wetzel, Senior Warden........... . 56.98
C. Edward Beaumont, Past Master
W. B. Mott, Past Master
Riverbank ···············--··-·No. 459.. _Not Represented
6.72
Mount Oso ···--··········-····No. 460.... kl&~d ~: Xh~~:;lfS!:;;;·w~~d~~-·-····--·····
Argonaut ···············-··-··No. 461.... Anthony_ T. Sola, Master
Ray P. Knox, Senior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, P.M. and Inspector
Hoadley Johnson, Sr., Past Master
William 0. Kuc111enz, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
Sigfried Pels. Past Master
John W. Rodgers, Past Master
Artlhur H. Schroeder, Past Master
J. A. Steinmetz, Past Master
George H. Taylor, Past Master
Paul Revere ·-··-···-···--No. 462 __ Perry A. Lawson, MasterW---'
Morton J. Meyer, Senior i:ll"Uen
Gustave L. Zeidler, Junior Warden
Artlhur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Allan ·E. Aitel, Past Master
Lowell H. Beckendorf, Past Master
Howard D. King, Past Master
Roy C. Lemoge, Past Master
Kent S. Maoon, Past Master
Henry Schindel, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Jacob Warshaw, Past Master
Edward T. Ferri, Master.....................-·········
Morgan Hl'll ···-···-········No• 7A63.... Cleo
W. Frandsen, Senior Warden
Jahn B. Robertson, Junior Warden
William L. Whidden. Past Master
Alta V ista ·····-·····---N o. ...A6"....... F·ior1· Mosca, Master
J. Frederick Smith, Junior W al'd en
Samuel G. Qark, P.M. and Inspector
William. J. Angenent. Past Master
Earl L. S. Baqot. Past Master

6.48

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

443
Mileage Allowed

Willliam Butcher, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Raymond A. Hurst, Past Master
George C. Siebel, Past Master
Harold W. Stelling, Past Master
Center ····················-·-·····No. 465..•.C. N. Brough, Senior Warden...................... 30.98
M. W. Lawrence, Junior Warden
Samuel E. DoHar, P.M. a.nd Inspector.......... 30.98
L. B. Anderson, Past Master
Llhertas ·····-···················No. 466.... Arthur H. Lane, Master......·-········-··············· 41.08
Reed D. Mercer, Senior Warckn
Ray M. Foust, Junior Warden
Robert J. ~yers. Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes, Past Master
Culver City .................... No. 467..•. Glen D. Werts, Master.................................. 56.98
E. Dale Peck, Senior Warden
Raymond P. Stone, Junior Warden
Roy S. Ferre, Sr.. Past Master
Herbel't Hargrave, Jr., Past Master................ 56.98
Roclcridge ·····-··-···-······No. 468..-Earl W. Threlfall, Master
William N. Lucas, Senior Warden
Robert G. Colgett, Junior Warden
Yorba Linda ·······-·········No. 469.... Arthur L. Hansford, Senior Warden............ 58.06
Lincoln ............................No. 470.... John J. Dwm, Master
Jack Erwin, Senior Warden
Vergil Kniglht. Junior Warden
Carlton H. Ro!!hblum, P.M. and Inspector
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Leonard T. Poclrnian, Past Master
Delta ·····-······-·········-·····No. 471....Kenne~h H. Whalen, Senior Warden............ 7.94
Chester C. Cudney, Junior Warden
Taubner G. Hamma, P.M. and Inspector...... 7.94
Hugh G. Martin, P.M. and Inspector............ 7.9-i
George W. Graffis, Past Master
Maul ---···-····-·-··-No. 472.. _Goorge Robert Craft, Senior Warden.......... 372.19
•
Eugene P. Jijine, Junior Grand Steward........ 372.19
Blythe ····················--······No. 473.... Emmett 0. Sanders, Senior Warden............ 75.28
Victory -···-···-··············-No. 474.... Donald A. Rushton, Master
Lester M. Petterson, Senior Warden
William C. Bird. Past Master
Harry T ..l)arr, Past Master
K. W. Hinkle, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
America ···-··-······-··-··No. 475.... ~J~~~~t{dd1::;as~=-~-W;:d~~----······· 56.98
L. Roy Ga1ilaway, Past Master
Coachella ·········--·-······-No. 476.... Charles N. 11homas, MaSter............................ 69.28
Rex T. fohnson, Senior Warden
Robert 1<. Hager, Junior Warden
Rewell E. Carlton, P.M. and Inspector........ 69.28
Franklin B. Dozier, Past Master
Aaron H. Weiner, Past Master
Friend F. Wilson, Past Master
Temblor ......................_No. 477.... Willard E. Bridge, Master..·--····················· 43.88
Thousand Oaks ---·----No. 478..•. V. A. von Sohlafke, Master
Vernon R. Lia Groue, Sr., Senior Warden
Earl M. Rapken, Junior Warden
Kennetlh R. Evans, Past Master
Harold F. Hexner, Past Master
John W. Jenson, Past Master
Harry C. Peterson. Past Master
Robert H. Stitt, Past Master

444

Mileage Allowed

Name of Lodge

Golden Rule --··-··--No. 479.... Jess W. Lile, Master........................................ 454
Elmer C. Wright, Jr., Senior Warden
Stanley C. Drysdale, Junior Warden
John S. Hasen, Past Master
Leonard W. Scott, Past Master
Oscar M. Swensen, Past Master
Edwin C. Van De Mark. Past Master
Fellowship ------·-···--No. 480.... Fred L. Campbell, Senior Warden
Clyde R. Harris, Junior W11rden
Reginald B. Wilson, Past Master
Mt. Davidson ········-·-·····No. 48 L_ William L. Christiansen, Master
Gustave W. Rodeen, Senior Warden
Thomas G. Allan, Junior Warden
Mhur M. Warren, P.G.M. and
Grand Treasurer
Daniel D. Rowlands, P.M. and Inspector
Thomas J. Bass, Past Master
Walter H. Daily, Past Master
Laurent A. Loustau, Past Master
Alfred H. Nicoll, Past Master...................... 2.94
George A. Sohst, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith -·······-No. 482.... Raymond A. Preston, Senior Warden.......... 56.98
Bell -···---·····-··No. 483.... Morgan D. Richards, Senior Waroen.......... 56.98
Everett B. Crosby, Junior Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Fred F. Elliott, Past Master
Truman P. Hayward, Past Master
Albert Pike -·····--·-·---No. 484.... Emerson L. Harris, Master.................-......... 56.98
Robert A. Manning, Senior Warden
Chowchilla ------No. 485....Wilfred M. Crader, Senior WMden............ 27.58
Caledonia -·------No. 486.... Patrick J. Ford, Master.................................• 41.08
Harold P. Wylie, Senior Warden
Fred S. Baxter, Junior Warden
William W. Shugart, P.M. and Inspector.... 41.08
Robert W. Beckwith, Past Master
Vallejo ····-··---········-No. 487....Cuthbert Menge, Master................................ 3.30
Elwood C. Scoggins, Senior Warden
Loren J. McKasson, Junior Warden
Ernest G. Branstetter, Past Master
Raymond S. Del Mas, Jr., Past Master
Frederic B. Hall, Past Master
Harry C. Siebert, Past Master
Patterson -··-··-----No. 488._.Robert A. Arambel, Senior Warden..·-····-· 9.22
East Bay --·--···-····-No. 489 .... Fred Elmer Wisshack, Master
John J. Abbott, Senior Warden
C. Robert Mackey, Junior Warden
Ser11ei N. Ivanoff, Past Master
Clifford B. Marker, Past Master
John Sobey, Past Master
Carl M. Thomsen, Past Master
Corcoran ---·-·-·····No. 490.... Willlam C. Harvey, Senior Warden............ 33.30
Woec!stock --··········--No. 491.... Ghester H. Ensign, Master
George A. Jurgens, Senior Warden
Verne R. Van Natta, Junior Warden
Carl R. Ramsey, P.M. and Inspector
Chester I. Finley, Past Master
Alvin A. Horwege, Past Master
Robert E. O'Brien, Past Master
M Allen Powers, Past Master
Charles Rundstrom, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master

Garvanza --

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreoentatiws

445

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. of Lodge

Representativea

Mi1eage Allowed

No. 492._.George E. Harrison, Senior Warden............
Harry M. Koerner, Junior Warden
Harold M. Hand, Past Master
David C. Lee, Past Master
Atascadero _______ __No. 493_Cyril Francis Best, Master........·-·················
Walter Clayton, P.M. and Inspector............
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Edward C. Knutson, Past Master
Acom --···-·······----No. 494.... J. Warren Manuel, Master
Richard L. Stephenson, Senior Warden........
Ed11ar A. Frederick, Junior Warden
E. Lloyd Hanson, P. M. and Inspector
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Earl Patterson, Jr., Past Master
George P. Silliman, Past Master
Lebanon ·-···-·····-··--No. 495.. _Eugene Kopplch, Master
Leo D'Atri, Senior Warden
Harry A. Rief, Junior Warden
Mervin J. Braunstein, Past Master
Eugene S. Hopp, Past Master
Richard A. Krug, Past Maater
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Bernard B. Stimmel, Past Master
Fremont ········-····--·····--No. 497__ Floyd W. Gregg, Master
Leon V. Rose, Junior Warden
T. M. Livingstone, Past Master
Louis F. Schwartz, Past Master
Stockton ···-···-····-·········No. 498....Early B. Goodwin, Junior Warden..............
Capital Qty -·····-·····--No. 499.... Conrad Murray, Master........·-····-··········-···
Rdbert C. Woodall, Senior Warden
Raymond A. Young, Junior Warden
Roosevelt ···-····--·--····No. 500.... Harold M. Ballengee, Senior Warden
Edward Martinelli, Junior Warden
Westwood -···-··-----No. 501.._ Wil:Jiam L. Beavers, Elected
Representative ............................................
Wayne D. Gleason, Past Master
Harbor ·····-·-···----No. 502....Tohn E. Thurbon, Master
Lloyd E. McFall, Senior Warden
Fred H. Mathews, Junior Warden
Lawrence Brewster, Past Master
Allison R. Hi11gins, Past Master
Calvin Hull, Past Master
Charles E. McCray, Past Master
Herron Scragg, Past Master
Charles L. Stanley, Past Master
Point ----········-·····-···-···No. 503.... Melvin B. McDaniels, Master
Selbie Wright, Senior Warden
Oren Bigham, Junior Warden
Victor Prenk, P.M. and Inspector
John L. Caron, Past Master
John C. Godwin, Past Master
R. V. Wayleott, Past Master
Seaside --·-··-·····-·--No. 504.... Alva C. Kirkland, Jr., Master.•..·--···············
Arthur R. Erskine, Senior Warden
Rodney H. Davis, Junior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P.M. & Inspector..........
William T. Corbusier, Past Master
Arthur R. Moberg, Jr., Past Master
Everett Houser, Past Master..........................
Howard K. Noble, Past Master

56.98

33.80
34.90

3.12

7.94
8.40

43.52

56.98
56.98
56.98

446
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repruentative1

Mileage Allowed

Silver Cord -····-·······-·No. 505 ....Thomas
Kenneth W.
G. Thurman,
Harrison. Senior
Master···-···················
Mount Oli
N 506
Grand Steward..............................................
ve .................. o.
.... Ray L. McCord Master
Robert W . Oblath, Seni~;·:w;:··············--···· -Harold ·L. Palmer, Junior Ward~:n ................
Russell Northrop, P.M. and Inspector..........
M. N. Kroopen, Past Master
El s
d
Harold M. Sailor, Past Master
egun o ·········-·····- ····No. 507.._Earl D. Tramblle. Master
Morris E. Marshall. Seniar·w;.;J~~-··············
Oscar G. Allen, Junior Warden
J
Robert J. Lehman, Past Master
op~a ··:···············:········-···No. 508.... Edgar A. Wilkins, Elected Representaitive
Ben1amm Franklm -····--No. 509.-Roy E. McGinnis, Senior Ward
··
Herbert B. Mootgomery, Junior W~~~·······
C
Robel't Wilkins, Past Master
upertlno ·············-·-······No. 510.... J.
Howard
C. Hubbard
Troy Rampy,
Seni~r Jr. M ter..._.............
S
Arthur Garbin!, Junior Warden
unnyva1e . ·················-···No. 511.._Donald
SeniorWarden
Ward en......................
Ridhard Kings,
Elias, Junior
Palms ······----··················-No. 512.... Robert W. Neale Mast
•
Robert L. Walker.' Seniorew~;;;··············
···

58 .06
58.06
56 9
. 8
56.98
56.98
56.98

31.18
56.98

Wari::i

Cahuenga --·······-··--·······-No. 513 ....

3·74
3.7-.A
56.98

Alb~!i~ShtlD~°L~~~~
~~:............................... 56.98
ert . avidson,
Senior Warden

C. Ray Hunt, Junior Warden

Jdhn Baker, Past Master
George K. Calvin, Past Master
Earl L. Kingman, Past Master
Don H. La Grange. Past Master
Voyle SiEes, Past Master
D. Lyle Todd, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney, Past Master
Argonne ·-·········-·············No. 514.... Cyril L. Thornton, Master
Frank Trevor, Senior Warden
Heney A. Ohristensen, Past Master
Edwin A. Gumbinger, Past Master
Robert P. Hulce, Past Master
Joseph J. Pape, Past Master
David Mann Taylor, Past Master
V
Frederick E. Wilhelm, Past Master
ermont Square ............ No. 515.... Frank M. O'Brien, Master
Kai C. Anderson, Senior W;:d;;;········-·--··--···
T f
William M. De Jane, Past Master
a t ..................................No. 516 .... Robert M. Evans, Master
M
William L. McEwen, Seni;;·w~;d;;;··-····--···
ount Vernon ................No. 517.... Harley T. Moxley, Senior Warden
Howard J. McCracken, Junior Warden
Edward G. Couture, Past Master
La
Alfred Stettler, Past Master
Jolla ···---·······----··········No. 518..
~ilRalpnGetsinger, Master..........................
Eu .
· ·
· h Aiman, P.M. and Inspector......
c1td - ····--······--··-····-····No. 519.. _Cecll B. Huffine Master
Roy F. Knapp, Senior w;;d;;;···--·-··------····-·
Percy M. Bezanson, Past Master
Ionic ··········-·····--···········No. 520....David
RichardBemiker,
L. W elss
Maater
P~ Mast;;-············-·--·········

-h

Claude Lenz, Past Master

56.98
"'3.58
"I

67.70
67.70
56.98
56.98

Name of Lodge

No . of Lodge

Representative•

447
Mileage Allo..,ed

No. 521-Hans Falster, Master
Jack Robinson, Senior Wad'Clen
H. Corwin Johnson. Junior Warden
Richard H. Chamberlain, Past Master
Gall H. David, Past Master
Sunrise ··--··----·-·- No. 522.... Harold D. Harby, Master•...·-····················- 56.98
William Jolley, Senior Warden
Ezra Mack Foster. Junior Warden
Bellflower -··---···-··---··No. 523.... Delmas R. Howell, Senior Warden.............. 56.98
Daniel I. Stutsman. Junior Warden
Catalina Island _.........-No. 524....Glynn H. Covington, Senior Warden.......... 64.79
George Washington ......No. 525 .... John T. Buchanan, Master
Melvin W. Boyer, Senior Warden
Robert E. Ovloe, Junior Warden
Adolph H. Franzen, P.M. and Inspector
Chester M. Smith. Past Master
Bay City ...............•........No. 526..-Beruard F. Cohn, Master
Louis Bertolone, Junior Warden
Thomas A. Dethlefsen, Past Master
Covenant ····-·····-···-··-No. 527....Walter E. Jantolek, Master............................ 56.98
Andrew J. Metcalfe, Senior Warden
William James Carney, Junior Warden
Everett S. Todd. Past Master
Beverly Hills ·····-·········-·No. 528 .... Rickey, H. Scott, Master........·-·······--·····--···-- 56.98
Ralph A. Wark, Jr., Senior Warden
Phi1ip S. Raiguel. Junior Wal'den
Frank Harwell, Jr., Past Grand Master........ 56.98
Joe Bookman, Past Master
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Jack B. Crawford, Past Master
Loyalty ·····-···-·-·-·······No. 529 .... Joe Orloff, Master..---···-···············--···········--· 56.98
Benjamin Susman, Senior Warden................ 56.98
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr .• Past Grand Master.. 56.98
Arthur Linsk, P.M. and Inspector................. . 56.98
Lloyd P. Bass, Past Master
JQ5ePh A. Visger, Past Master
Sun Garden ....................No. 530....Tesse T. Hornback, Jr., Senior Warden....... . 30.98
Heroert R. Hargrave, P.M. and Inspector.. 30.98
C. C. Beals, Past Master
Everett L. Coyle, Past Master
Bertram Harry Hunter, Past Master
LeRoy Stubblefield, Past Master
Alexandria ············-·-·····No. 531.... Elvls H. Brown, Master
Pete A. Rich, Senior Warden
Aaron A. Ariiogast, Past Master
Smyrna ·----·-···No. 532.... Harland 0. Hoghren, Senior Warden. ........ . 10.14
Mal P. Rose. Junior Warden
Azure •..-·-··-···-No. 533...James W. Turk, Senior Warden.................... 58.06
Warren A. Rake, Junior Warden
Eugene L. Piantoni, Past Master
Forest Hill -·-·······-·--No. 534.-.Harold R. OeGabain, Master
Edward S. Majewski, Junior Warden
James N. Rae, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ......No. 535.... Lester Chew, Master...................................... 56.98
William T. Saunders, Senior Warden
Howard F. Bucklin, Junior Warden
WendeM L. Goodwin, P.M. and Inspector.. 56.98
Edward J. Blickfeldt, Past Master
Emerson Ward Hill, Past Master
Wallace Ketclium. Past Master
Darius R. Mansell, Past Master

Piedmont

448
Name of Lodse

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Gordon N. McHenry, Past Master
Roland W. Snow, Past Master
Seal Rock _________ No. 536.... Charles Dick Linehan, Senior Warden
Ernest F. Haines, Junior Warden
Abe Balukian, Past Master
Edwin Bode, Sr., Past Master
R. H . Sievers, Past Master
John K. Wright, Past Master
Utopia ----···-··--·No. 537.... Clyde W. Darby, Senior Warden............. _. 56.98
Maurice K. Darby, Past Master
Ascot ----····-No. 538.... Anton J. Mestyanek, Master........·-··············· 56.98
William B. Blankenship, Junior Warden
,_No. 539._Robert L. Disheroon, Senior Warden..·-···· 56.98
Belvedere
Richard G. Stevens, Junior Warden
---Queen Beach ······-·-···-No. 540.._George P. Martin, Master.............................. 56.98
Earl A. Swenson, Senior Warden
Robert E. Callaway, Past Master
Marvel Fairchild, Past Master
Charles J. Payne, Past Master
Henry Morse Stephens.. No. 541.... Edwin R. Rowe, Master
Charles W. Barnett, Senior Warden
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Past Master
Robert L. Rid:tardson, Past Master
John Richmond, Past Master
Robert H. Taylor, Past Master
North Hollywood __ ...No. 542.... Hugh E. Gregory, Master.............................. 56.98
Reginald Bunce, P.M. and Inspector........... . 56.98
J. Glen Gladson, Past Master
W. James Mann, Past Master
Clarence A. Ross, Past Master
Edward Solomon, Past Master
Signal
·- ---····No. 543.-James C. Smith, Master..·-······-···················- 56.98
Glenn A. Houpt, Junior Warden
Waker H. Fike, Past Master
Glendale ---···-··-No. 544._Kennellh L. Truex, Senior Warden................ 56.32
Earl A. Lemmon. Junior Warden
Paul R. Queen, Past Master
Archie D. Strayer, Past Master
Jonatbn ______No. 545.... Conrad C. Hopper, Master
Thomas O'Connor, Sr., Senior Warden
Antone Botatlyo, Junior Warden
Samuel Brown, Past Master
San Gabriel _______ _No. 546._Lester E. Houghton, Senior Warden............ 56.98
Harmon A. Finke, Junior Warden
George Hahn, Past Master
Leonard A. Williams, Past Master
ArcadJa _ _ _ _ _ No. 547_Gonfon A. Morse, Senior Warden. ............._ 56.98
Benjamin F. Nash, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
E. C. Murfett. Past Master
Triangle ______ No. 548.... Charles T. Murdock, Master...........- ............. 56.98
Vincenlt D. Alianiello, Senior Warden
Calvin H. Leonard, Junior Warden
Justice _________ _No. 549.... Nathan B. Cooper, Master
Glenn C. Coulson, Junior Warden
Paul A. Hackler, P.M. and Inspector
WH!iam W. Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master............................ 2.82
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
William R. Cruickshank, Past Master
Ralph R. Herdman, Past Master
Rush Manbert, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

449
Mileage Allowed

Percy V. Maury, Past Master
Jordon Zoll!, Past Master
Seaport --·- ·--···-·---No. 550.... Frank E. Ritchie, Master
Joseph M. Freeland, Senior Warden
Edwin A. Nylund, Junior Warden
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
Floyd B. Scullin, Past Master
Adolph C. von Konsky, Past Master
Bertram C. von Konsky, Past Master
John Wullschleger, Past Master
Lakeshore --··-··----No. 551....Edward L. Land, Master
Anthony R. Manov, Senior Warden
Robert H. Clewett, Junior Warden
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Lee B. Ferguson, Past Master
Carl E. Joseph, Past Master
Ralph H. Moreland, Past Master
Semper Vireos ·····-·········No. 552.... R. E. Davenport, Senior Warden................ 39.72
Alexander DUncan, P.M. and Inspector........ 39.72
Educator ···-················---No. 554..-Delbert 0. Tanner, Master
Frank R. Mettam, Senior Warden
Ted K. Brouwer, Junior Warden
Emmett L. Bundy, Past Master
F. D. DeLong, Past Master
White Pine ···--········---No. 555.... Not Represented
Fairfax ··---····-----·---No. 556.... Samuel Levin, Master
Frank B. Peebles, Senior Warden
Alvin Artellan, Junior Warden
Charles R. Banfield, Past Master
Arthur D. Darrington, Past Master
Max Garlow, Past Master
Hermosa - -- ----No. 557.... Raymond Stephens, Senior Warden..·- ·-···· 56.98
Paul Thompson, P.M. and Inspector...-....... 56.98
Point Firmin -·-··-No. 558.... James J. Nash. Jr., Master..............·-············· 56.98
Earl J. Hull. Senior Warden
•
Craftsmen ------.No. 559.... G. L. Reese, Master........................................ 56.98
P. H. Bozajlan, Senior Warden
F. L. Richards, Past Master
Plymouth --·-··-·-···-No. 560...• Gus Bogel, Junior Warden
&!ward H. Siems, P.G.M. and Grand
Secretary
Charles K. BaX'ley, Past Master
Nick Pappas, Past Master
East San Diego ·····-·--No. 561 .... Granville Hardin, Senior Warden..........·-··· 67.70
R. E. Hogan. Junior Warden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
No. 562.... Lester F. Sutton, Master
Pyramid
John R. Bleakley, Senior Warden
Willison H. Lingafelter, Junior Warden
Chester H. Newell, Past Master
No. 563.... Esau T. Agajanlan, Master.....______ 56.98
South Park
Joel M. Foster, Senior Warden
William Bottorff, P.M. and Inspector....___ 56.98
Lawrence B. Black, Past Master
William G. Foley, Past Master
Carl H. Lindegren, Past Master
Max F. Vail. Past Master
No. 564.... Victor H. Campbell, Master
Foothill
Merle E. Rossman. Senior Warden
Herbert E. Ferguson, Junior Warden
Lawrence Camozzi, Past Master

450
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Ray A. Farley, Past Master
J. Gardiner Grady, Past Master
lionel C. Raymond, Past Master
West Adams -·--------····-No. 565.... Mer'lyn C. Devine, Senior Warden..............
Rdbert L. Gillies, Junior Warden
James A. Garfield ______No. 566.... Robert B. Kirk, Master...--·······················
Charles H. Collard, Senior Warden
H. Austin Mahr, Junior Warden
Field Thompson, P.M. and Inspector............
Lester C. Fairfield, Past Master
Clay Robbins, Past Master
Searchlight _ _ _ _No. 567....
P. Moore, Master....................................

Jihn

o:I.1tv~::!~~!e~':tt~arden

Park Boulevard -·-·······No. 568.... Clarence B. Jorgensen. Master
William H. Van Claeve, Senior Warden
Melvin C. Moran, Junior Warden
Don E. Berry, Past Master............................
Lloyd M. Bradford, Past Master
Ridhard A. Browning. Past Master
William T. Friborg. Past Master
James E. Hammond, Past Master
Willis V. McBeth, Past Master
Chateau Thierry __ ......No. 569.... R. V. Rossen, Master
Jack Silvan, Senior Warden
Ralph A. Williams. Junior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach, P.M. and Inspector
W al,ter J. Breen, Past Master
Military Service ............No. 570.... John Kinces, Master
rd
Louis Peter Golfos, Senior Wa en
Nathan Kurtz, Junior Warden
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
Harry A. Kallberg, Past Master
Oiang W aih Lee, Past Master
L. H. Strohecker, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck........No. 571.... Kenneth Danielson. Master
Lorin A. White, Senior Warden
Leo Chesser, Junior Warden
Eilbert W. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer
Herbert H. Hobson, P.M. and Inspector
James Madison ................No. 572.... Willis W. Scott, Master............................... .
Edward J. Harrison, Senior Warden
Ray Smith, P.M. and Inspector......................
Edgar J. Cumbey. Past Master
Oaude A. Mitdtell, Past Master
Hillcrest ····--···-····No. 573.... Elston M. Farran, Master d
Don McFetridge, Senior War en
Howard J. Wall, Junior Warden
Brown Zarley, Past Master
S. W. Hackett _____ No. 574.... Harold A. Gasner, Master---····-·-······Stephen A. Dodd, Senior Warden
Oliver S. Robertson, Junior Warden
Norman E. Hale, Past Master
Leonel C. Pano.sh, Past Master
}'oseph H. Wagner, Past Master
Fort Crook ......................No. 575.... A. F. McLellan, Master................................ ..
El Cajon Valley .........-No. 576.... James A. Patrick, Master................................
Herbert W. Hall. Senior Warden
Leroy Chambers, Junior Warden
Kenneth L. Wylie, Past Master

56.98
56.98
58.20
56.98

8:40

56.98
56.98

67.70

42.32
68.80

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representativea

451
Mileage .Allowed

Sunnyside _________No. 577....0yde T. Proctor, Muter................................ 56.98
James L. Clark, Jr., Senior Warden
louis H. Mahler, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98
Donald R. Coon, Past Master
William B. Harmon, Past Master
Jdlm A. Low, Past Master
Guy A. Tolle, Past Master
Progressive ................_No. 578....Ralph E. Murphy, Master.............................. 56.98
Ralph A. Larson, Senior Warden
J. Howard Edwards, Past Master
E. L. Halstead, Past Master
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Roy 0. Miller, Past Master
Sidney E. Mills, Past Master
George M. Sturgis, Past Master
Warren G. Harding........No. 579....Jack Mingo, Master·-··--·-·········· ····-··· 8.40
Leslie Smil!h, Senior Warden
C. E. Herrmann, Past Master
Santa Marla ....................No. 580.... Paul E. Simon, Muter---·-·-··········-······· 71.00
William C. Leach, Junior Warden
Zenas Y. Coleman, Pmt Master
John L. Payton. Past Muter
Security _________ No. 581....Richard Cole Williams, Senior Warden._ 41.08
Oran W. Palmer, Grand Sword Bearer........ 41.08
Samuel Robert Bauman, Past Master
Leonard Truman Jenkins, Past Master
Lyle Lynn Stumbaugh, Past Master
Kenneth Payne Sward, Past Master
Rialto ·················-···········No. 582....Claude McFarland, Senior Warden.............. 61.94
Wasco -············-······--·No. 583....John Graham Hill, Master.............................. 36.56
Hardy Henry Hair, Senior Warden
Hoyett Laverne Smol!hers, Junior Warden
Fred C. Pritschke, P.M. and Inspector.......... 36.56
Harry H. Pollock, Past Master
Harding .........................No. 58.f.... Donald H. McDonald, Master........................ 56.98
Hardld E. Howsley, Senk>r Warden
Anson McArl!hur, P.M. and Inspector........ _. 56.98
Manchester --········-··-No. 585·-l:JD~h7;icis~-:~\v~~d~~---·-··---·--···· 56.98
Gus Search, Junior Warden
Floyd E. Powler, Past Master
Jules E. Martinet, Past Master
Richard E. Snyder, Past Master
A. J. Urban, Past Master
Garden Grove ................No. 586.... Woodrow W. Reyburn, Master.................... 58.06
Ronald Tadman, Senior Warden
James E. Cruthirds, Junior Warden
Walter K. Reed, P.M. and Inspector............ 58.06
Valley Forge ·-·-····-···-No. 587.... Charles E. Senft, Maater..........................-... 56.98
Ernest Gardner, Senior Warden
Leslie S. Wayman, P.M. and Inspector..___ 56.98
El Sereno --············-·No. 588.... Clinton C. Shaffer, Master......·--·················· 56.98
Carl A. Halter, P.M. and Inspector.............. 56.98
August J. Bendler, Past Master
W. 0. Phegley, Past Master
Kauai --···············-··--No. 589.... Howard B. West, Eelected Representative.. 372.19
Hector McD. Moir, P.M. and Inspector...... 372.19
Compass ----·················-No. 590.... Norman V. Unroe, Master..·-·····-···········-· .. -· 60.26
Donald Heyman, Senior Warden
TamesT. White, Junior Warden
Philip S. Hunt. P.M. and Inspector.............. 60.26

453

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

452

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Name of Lodge

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

RepreeenQ!ivet1

Mileaae Allowed

8.86
..No. 591 Carl T Miller, Master...................................... Warre~ W. Fowler, Senior Warden
ca on - · - · · - - ·
Carroll S. Prouty, Junior Warden
No. 592....Ed B. Plummer, Master.................................. 56.32
Tujunga
A. Keith Schumacher, Junior Warden
--···--·--·
__No. 593.... Cletis William Bennett, Master...................... 56.98
All States
Henry Allen Field, Senior Warden
Kirby C. Serles, Past Master
.- -..--No. 594.... George M. Hystad. Mute-......................---- 56.98
Service -···
Britton Miller, Senior Warden
J. WesleiGebb, Jr., Junior Warden
Charles . Wentz, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
Paul D. owlin, Past Master
Ralph F. Rutherford. Past Master
Alexander Graham Belt.No. 595.... Dean Soles, Master.........---·······-··········-· ·- 56.98
No. 596....Thomas H. Mowery, Master........................ 56.98
G ua rd! an -·--·-··-·Harry B. Keams, Senior Warden
Daniel B. Erwin, Past Master
Pearl Harbor ····-·-····--No. 598.... Loule Charles Ondo, Senior Warden............ 338.19
No. 599 William G. Mohn, Master........-------············· 58.20
ll
Carme ta
··-Kenneth P. Waterhouse, Senior Warden
·--Kermit A. Jacobson, Past Master
_No 600....Henry L. Palmer, Master................................ 56.98
Lynwood
Robert C. Eutberg. Senior Warden
'
-·------··
Royal D. Barnes. Junior Warden
John D. Keen, Past Master
Grizzly -·----····No . 601.- William W. Thrailkill, Elected
Representative ··--·-·········--········--·····-- 36.70
.......... 56.98
Melrose -··-·-··---··..No· 602.... Kenneth P. ~uford, Master..................
George H. Hunes, Senior Warden................ 56.98
Roland E. Broughton. Junior Warden
Edwin T. Church, Past Master
William R. Gutcher, Past Master
G. Earle Outram, Past Master
No. 603 Wayne Wiswell, Jr.. Junior Warden
Dimond--- ·
·-Larry C. Basker. P.M. and Inspector
William H. Little, Past Master
ubilee _ _ _ _,___..No. 604.... A. Ronald Davidson, Master.......................... 58.06
J
Carlos B. Benson, Senior Warden
'"''o. 605.. _James C. Holt. Master...........-················-· 56.98
Glasse11 P ark ·-·-·····-~,
Frans J. Valdin, Senior Warden
Frank W. Johnson, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
__No. 607_.George T. Neill, Master.................................. 58.06
_
Sojourner
John F. Anderson, Senior Warden
-·
No 608.... Calvin D. Yegge, Master..·-···-····················· 56.98
Gr da
James E. Wellet, Senior Warden
--···----- •
ana
M. D. Callva, Junior Warden
Donald G. Campbell, Grand Lecturer.......-- 58.20
...No. 609.... Herman L. Pede, Senior Warden.................. 8:40
Provident - - - - ·
William L. Maxwell, Junior Warden
Leslie E. Wood. Past Grand Master...---- 8.40
Ned E. Ubben, Past Master
..No 610 Earl L. Kinder, Master
E1mh t
.... Reynolds D. Carpenter, Senior Warden
•
urs
Cecil W. Doggett, Past Master
Cano a ________No. 611 .... Donald W. a.oss, Master-··-·········· ·······-·- 56.98
Neil R. Quick, Senior Warden
g
Carrol J. Davis, Past Master
Charles 0. Fling, Past Master
William P. Forbes, Jr., Past MasteRalph H. Hanson. Past Master

Es 1

No. of Lodae

Repreaencalivea

Mileaae Allowed

Norris A. Reavis, Past Master
George W. Rudkin, Past Master
Temple City -····---·No. 612.... 0scar F. Watson, Master.............................. 56.98
David B. Mason, Senior Warden
Dean D. Richards, Junior Warden
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
William N. Pedder, Past Master
Three Pillars -···-··--No. 613_Harold J. Suhr, Master......---··················-····· 8.40
Melvin A. Buth, Senior Warden
Paul A. Downing, Junior Warden
Sam Lovell, P.M. and Inspector.................... 8.40
Frank P. Lemen, P.M. and Inspector............ 8.40
Larchmont ·-····--··-·····No. 614.._Fred A. Chworowsky. Master..·-················· 56.98
Dwight W. Warren, Jr., Senior Warden
Clarence F. Cooper, Junior Warden
Newcomb Condee, Past Master.................... 56.98
Herbert H. Cooper, Past Master
W. E. Hermiston, Past Master
Hemet ________ __No. 615.... Homer L. Trueblood, Master..........·-··········· 67.42
James S. Whitener, Senior Warden
Hubert J. Raymond, P.M. and lnspector...-- 66.22
Wilbur Raymond, Past Master
R. E. Dolley --·-----No. 616_Kenneth B. Conklin, Senior Warden............ 56.98
James F. Stucker, Junior Warden
Frank 0. Brostrom, Past Master
Big Bear -·········----No . 617.... Fred A. Butts, Master..........·-····················-· 64.64
H. 0. Warren. Senior Warden
Earl M. Vigus, P.M. and Inspector.............. 64.64
A. E. Carroll. Past Master
Southland -·-·--··No. 618.... Elmer C. Rodgers, Master.............................. 56.98
Adrian H. Chamnesa, Senior Warden
William F. Gallin, Past Master
Neptune ______No. 619.... Keith W. Randall, Master.............................. 56.98
William Paul Kachmarik, Senlor Warden
Point Loma ---···-No. 620_Howard S. Fisher, Master·-··············--·-·-··· 67.70
Jahn H. Kerr, Senior Warden
Franklin A. Plank, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
The Gardens -··---··-·No. 621.... Gerald E. Hopper, Master.............................. 56.98
Edwin Lauricella, Senior Warden
Edward F. Skinner, Jr., Junior Warden
Flohd S. Vandegrift, Past Master
Atwater _______ _No. 622.... Ric ard H. Dutwiler, Master.......................... 56.98
John M. Ellis, Senior Warden
Fred E. Nollenberger, Junior Warden
Charles F. Chapman. )?.M. and Inspector.... 56.98
Frederick H. Chapman, Past Master
56.98

~!il ft.·J~~~a~M:1;;····-···················-

GiJbert H. Peterson, Past Master
Menorah ·-······--···-···-No . 623.... Arthur Zeavin, Master.........·-···-··········--···· 56.98
Stanley Parker, Senior Warden
Fortitude -----N10. 62-f_Alfred Schwartz, Master
Thomas E. H. Love, Senior Warden
G. W. Blackshere, Junior Warden
Tames B. Barbero, Past Master
Russell G. Worth, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ······-······No. 625._George E. Millhollin, Master........................ 56.98
Stanley L. Erickson, Junior Warden
Gordon S. Duncan, Past Master
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Harold 0. Larsen, Past Master

454
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

455

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE
Mileaie Allowed

No 626.... Raymond R. Parkes, Senior Warden............ 67.70
.t
Ch u1a V is a --···-········ ·- •
Adelbert L. Clark, Sr., Junior Warden
Lamanda Park _____ No. 627.... Paul H. Lowe, Master.................................... 58.20
George G. Taylor, Senior WMden
No 628 Norman L. Weiler, Senior Warden.............. 56.98
h
T rut ------- ----- •
····Chris B. Jacobs, Junior Warden
No 629 .... Herman George, Master.................................. 56.98
·
Pai!'Vlew ··-······ ·--- •
Charles W. Eldrid e, Jr., SeniOI" Warden
Russell C. Harris, ~ast Master
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
Harold C. Mudgett, Past Master
Glenn E. Pamer~ Jr., Past Master
WW. YGar erJ,uniMastWer arden
Ingleside .......................-No. 630.... George
or
George . oung,
Henry C. Clausen, Past Graad Master
Lloyd E. Wil90I1, Past Grand Master
Ray W. Blosser, Past Master
Joseph F. Garriott, Past Master
Edison K. Quidc. Past Master
Phil S. Tolman. Past Master
631 Ralph A Anderson, Senior Warden. ........-- 56.98
No
Benevo1ence -·····-·-····· ·· .
····Edward R. Unger, Junior Warden
Buford E. Rhodes, Past Master
WT. JohnstoneS, ~astWer...rd··················· 67.70
William
_
..
632
o.
·-···-···-·N
Heights
Normal
George A. routman, emor a en
Cody A. Firks, Junior Warden
Winfield S. McLees, P.M. and Inspector...... 67.70
Ben T. Salmon, Past Master
No 633-Alfre d L. Cook, Master.---·····-····-················· 49.78
,a
Po!nse...
Thomas E. Jordan, Senior Warden
"" ----··· ··· ·
Louis C. Dr~au, Past Grand Master.......... 48.24
Ellwood D. Cooper, Past Master
Clifford C. Fouhse, Past Master
Arthur T. Mead, Past Master
o 634. Lewis W. Ambrosier, Master........................ 65.74
Victorville -·············· ··· N ·
-William L. Rogers, Senior Warden
Russell F. Brag9, P.M. and Inspector............ 65.74
William T. Boehringer, Past Master
Willard F. Cameron, Past Master
Alfred Johnson, Past Master
Senior Warden............ 62.40
Riverside ----···· ·-···No. 635 ....Clarence M. Briggs, Junior
Warden
Jack C. Hutchinson,
Gordon F. Black, Past Muter
Oharles H. Grace, Past Master
636... Robert S. Rober, Master....... ---······················· 56.98
No
hall
John M ars
· Clarence E. Redman. Senior Warden
-··········-· ·
Elton J. Bonneville, Junior Warden
Rabert A. Crigler, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
Atwill, Morgan, Past Master........................ 56.98
Cecil A. Weihe, Master.................................. 56.98
....
637
No
d
.
Joseph T. Cuthbertson, Senior Warden
P a11sa es·························· •
Anton J. Lygum, Junior Warden
Demerest S. Wemple, Past Master
HJ. ArBensonJ, S~orWWdarden
Indian Rock ....................No. 638...• William
Frederick . tus, un1or ar en
Frederick T. Herrick, Past Master
Edward L. Kearney, Past Master
David R. Lane, Past Master
Wallace D. McAllister, Past Master
No 639 Morris M. Ratner, Master...... ........................ 56.98
Composite ····-·······-·- ··· •
··-Byron A. Smith, Junior Warden
Arthur Dvorin, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

Mileage Allowed

Warden
Verltas ········-···· -···---No. 640.... Loong Geung Fong, Senior
Vance A. Boyer, Past Master
David D. Jewell. P'lst Master
Dale Jones, Past Master
Irving J. Kohnke, Past Master
Washingto n I. Kohnke, Past Master
Oscar W. Norman, Past Master
William F. Poynter, Past Master
Master....·-···-··········· 56.98
James A. Foshay ............No. 641....Fred Carter Leeming,
William Stevenson, Senior Warden
William J. Rogister, Jr., Junior Warden
La Cumbre ······-··-·-····-.No. 642.... C. L. Howard, Master.................................... 47.20
Charles C. Bickmore. Junior Warden
Jess Sheegog, Past Master
Alta Loma ----·······No. 643...• Paul E. Carlyle, Master.................................. 56.98
Douglas J. Blair, Senior Warden
Bert B. Bond. Past Master
Warden.................. 56.98
Lomita ···········-·········-···No. 644..•. Lowell Shelhart, Senior Warden
Edward Peterson, Junior
_................. 56.98
A. F. E. Irwin -----····N o. 645..•. Ivar Thoren, Master.........-..........
Delbert L. Michaels, Senior W a?'den
Ephrain B. Snow, Junior Warden
Earl J. Walker, P.M. and Inspector.............. 56.98
Warren W. Garrison, Jr., Past Master
Gordon M. Goar, Past Master
Harry A. Hansen, Past Master
Metropolitan -····-·····-·· No. 646..•. Rohert V. Fulkerson, Jr., Senior Warden... . 56.98
Frank Everett, Past Master
Howard W. Lange, Past Master
Hawthorn e -·----- No. 647__ Paige R. Bradley, Senior Warden................ 56.98
Everett E. Cook, Junior Warden
John A. Owen, P.M. and Inspector................ 56.98
Damascus ·····---- -No. 648.... C. Edgar Cleghorn, Master.....- ..................... 61.94
Floyd E. Hull, Senior Warden
Joseph L. Ousley, P.M. and Inspector.......... 61.94
Neil M. Ousley, Past Master
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
Florence ..........................No. 649.... Fred Harris, Master........................................ 56.98
Kenneth Perkins, Senior Warden
Arthur Clawitter, Junior Warden
Fred W. Waitman, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
William W. Sheue, Past Master
La Brea _____ __No. 650.... George W. Burch Ill, Master............. _......... 56.98
William L. Funck, Senior Warden
George W. Burch, Jr.. Past Master................ 56.98
Hugh J. Cameron, Past Master
Francis C. Ford, Past Master
Russell Lee, Past Master
Ray S. Sm~th. Past Master
John W. Swank, Past Master
Charles Y ecsmen, Past Master
Menlo Park --------·· -No. 651.... Russell J. Braasch, Master.............................. 2.82
Donald D. Pitman, Senior Warden
Edward A. Grindle, Junior Warden
David Wright, Grand Tiler
Robert Christiansen, Past Master
Royal Hodge, Past Master
Albert F. Koula, Past Master
56.98
Crescenta Valley •.........No. 652...• \v::ft~~~~~=~:-·w-.;d~
Roy Hutchinson, Junior Warden
James R. Young, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98

..................

456

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE Of' CAUPO RNIA
Mileage Allowed

No, 653 __ 0mu Clucas Kennode, Master..........c........... 58.06
Virgil T. Anderson. Senior Warden
Fontana --·····-·· -······-John M. Hawkins. Junior Warden
William M. Riches, Past Master
.
Marengo, Muter.......................... 56.98
DonaldonV.
N 654 ····Grand
C. Curtis, Senior Warden
Jordan ·-··-··· -··-···- o.
....·-··-····-···-········ 56·98
Master
0 655
Y. Stamp,
Harold
Waiden
k, Senior
L. Holbroo
····John
Monte Vista --·-······· ·-·N •
· ············· 5~-~
-····-···-············No. 656.... Phil Campbell, JrH., SeniorMaWartden.r
Citrol
·················· 6 .
e
s
amen,
Adams
Clifford
Spreckels ·····-···N o. 657.... WUUam Roy Adams, Senior Warden
John D.-Tack Dalbey, Junior Warden
Horace H. Blair, Past Master
l 1. 82
······ 58.06
··············
N 658 Frank J. Medo, Master..·-···········
........
Warden
Livingston ····-·········-····· o. 659·-·B lit Quentin Mimosa, Senior
_
-·· P:rry DeLoyd Kanipe, Junior Warden
La Habra ····-····-·········-No.
58
06
56.98
r............
Inspecto
and
P.M.
Blurton,
Riley L.
.
·-········-·
....
Wanfen
Senior
Selmon,
T.
Tull
660
N
Wanfen
Junior
····&;n e A. Harris,
Baldwin Park······-·········· o.
Fred Leland Ferguson, Sr., P.M. and
Inspector --·-·--- -········- ·········-· ·········· 56.98
Marion Mell, Past Master
::..················· 56.98
·····:·:::;:
Mass~;-.::·w
T. Cappell,
...-ucu
, ......,.
R. Dreesen
Henry
Malta -····-··· -···-···- -No. 661....J.
•
Grover White, Junior Warden
Lawrence W. Jaques, Past Master
Schlobohm, Master...................... 56.98
N 662 Herman 0.
····Williard M. Huyck, Senior Warden
Henry Knox ·-····· -- o.
8
Willbur J. Hank, Junior Warden
Paul R. Nichols, Grand Pursuivant................ 56·9
S. Roy Howell, Past Master
49 90
Harry B. Keeling, Pa.st Master
....... 49'90
.............
Warden
Ayers. Junior
P Stevens,
Floyd E:
N o. 663.... Frank
.
P.M. and lmpector..........
Ojai -····-·-··· ·········-· ···-·
4
36.1
.........
...
Warden
Hull, Jr., Senior
N 0 665 EmoryA.o.
_8
··-Cecil Gann, Junior Warden
Kaweah ·-······· ···-···-- •
y, M~ster......d.................. .. 56 9
No. 666.... Robert T. Capansk
Adolph W. Dryden, Seruor War en
Reseda -·--· ----Frank s. Barnard. Past Master
56.32
Frank J. Homer, Past Master
n Bjerre, Master................................
No. 667 Christia
.
Warden
Senior
,
Peterson
L.
····Ray
Meridian ·-····-·-· ········6 98
Keith Kinnaird, Junior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master.............. 5 .
56.32
....
r
Frank W. Raddatz,, P.M. and Inspecto
Otto A. Raddatz, Past Master
65 22
John Swan, Past Master
·
Senior Wuden. ...............
Id I. Tanner, Warden
· N 668···· R
Junior
Mills,
San Gorgonio ·····-·······- o.
Vernon c. Mills, Past Master
, Master................................. . 454
N 0 669 Luther Brannon
-Rioba rd H. Johnson, Senior Warden
John P. Jarman ·-·--··- •
Heri:iert Pritchard. Past Master
58.38
William H. Reed, Past Master
Master...•.....- .................
E. Turner,
No. 670.... Kenneth
Gorman v. Rhea, Senior Warden
Greenleaf -··-·· ·--Lee A. Strong, Junior Warden
Harold A. Butler, Past Master
Jame.s L. Twaddell, Past Master
Walter R. Wegner , Past Master
Name of Lodge

1::::

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representative•

457
Mileace Allowed

.................... 60.i8
San Oemmt e ............__,Nq. 671....Jahn D. Nielsen, Master..............
Norman E. Rudolph, Senior Warden
Thomas A. Broadbent, Junior Warden
Warden.................. 58.7i
Laguna Beach ---.--N o. 672.._Hugh Anderson. Senior Warden
W. Rex Hoover, Junior
W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer.. 58.7i
Par West -·-···--···--No. 673.... Francis F. Gates, Master
Albert A. Baker, Jr., Senior Warden
Edward W. Quon, Junior Warden
Charles L. Foster, P.M. and Inspector
William C. Kunz, Past Master
Rowland E. M&,on, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
S. Myron Tatarian , Past Master
.............. .. 56.98
Los Cerritos ·······-··-·······No. 67i.... Jay A. Robinson, Master.. ..............
Emil Stmioh, Senior Warden
Norman Gottlieb, Junior Warden
Howard C. Goldblatt, Past Master
Samuel E. Ledc!el, Past Master
Arthur J. Sissons, Past Master
Master.............................. 9.66
Modesto ---··· ---No . 675.... Shelby 0. Reeves,
Calvin L. Heim, Senior Warden
Clair M. Petersen, Junior Warden
Frank C. Shaw, Past Master
............. ......... 4.54
Willow Glen --·---...No. 676.. _0harle s R. Carpenter, Master..
Tames M. JohnsOn, Senior Warden
William W, Eilers, Junior Warden
Frank N. Long, P.M. and Inspector.............. i.54
Harold S. Medo, Past Master
Thornton D. Webste r, Past Master
A. Lon Fishback, Master........................ 56.98
~ral Arts -·--·-- -No. 677__ W.
Shirley 0. Packard, Senior Warden
Louis W. Allen, Junior Warden
John F. Porter, Past Master
Frank H. Rem.,ch, Past Master
Pope, Master.................................. 58.20
Altadena -···~-No. 678.•_Donald D. Tripp,
Senior Warden
Vemon C.
William R. Juergens, Junior Warden
S. C. Pullen, Past Master
Junior Warden .......... 55.90
Canby Cross -······- -No. 679..•. Lester L. Turnbaugh, Master
V. G. Reinmiller, Past
................... 13.52
Carmel -·--····- ··---.-N o. 680.. _John E. Flatley, Master...............
Nonnan F. Fontes, Senior Warden
goy E. Tilll:. Junior Warden
Ralph W. t_:hompson, Sr., Past Master
Boehm, Master........................... __ 13.iO
Dos Palos -··-·· --..•No. 681....EdwinM.M.
Eppler, Senior Warden
ohn
ohn Dennis, Junior Warden
Warden.............. 50.50
Barstow --·-·- --No . 682.... obert P. Higgins, Senior
Oliver L. TdhnsOn, Junior Warden
Norman Smith, Past Master
Warden................ 31.32
Redwood Empire ·----.No . 683.._Estal M. McCush, Senior Warden
Kenneth S. Brown, Junior
............. 52.98
Trona -···-··- --·---N o, 684.... Jdhn A. P. Rooney, Senior Warden.
Blackmun, P.M. and Inspector.. 52.98
Lynn Allen
Hardin I. Lineback, Past Master
Charles E. Ousley, Past Master
Master................ ................ 58.20
San Marino -·---.- -No. 685.._Attilio G. Parisi, Senior
Warden
Roland D. Glunt,
RUSSe!l C. Eikenberry, Junior Warden
George R. Friederich, Past Master
W. Glen E. Irwin, Pa.st Master

~

'458
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

459

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage Allowed

Albany ---····-···-No. 686._.Hat"old D. Chester, Master
Vista ·-·-----·····-No. 687-Horace R. Kice, Senior Warden.................... 64.20
Lewis H. Field, P.M. and Inspector.............. 64.20
Andrew H. Chung, Past Master
Oildale --·----·-···-No. 688_Robert L. Lane, Master....................·-·····-··· 41.08
Hugh E. Manes, Senior Warden
Gorrell F. Norman, Junior Warden
Pohona ···-······:................No. 689...• Robert D. Lake, Junior Warden.................... 37.92
San Carlos -··-'-·--···-··-No• 690-Anchor Neilsen, Master
John Timmins, Senior Warden
Frank Driffill, Junior Warden
E. Ross Baylis. P.M. and Inspector
Indian Wells Valley...._No. 691....Tohn H. R. Lytle, Master.....................-......... 51.28
lloyd Haycock, Senior Warden
Travelers ·······- ··--····-No. 692.... ~•::;~,1fR~I~IS~ni~aW~;d~························ 8.40
Dale R. Wilcox, Junior Warden
Harry D. Brainard, Past Master
Donald E. Dawley, Past Master
Palm Springs -···-·········No. 693.... Thor C. Fredericksen, Senior Warden........ 66.62
Robert C. Se!'trand, Junior Warden
Frederick A. Morrison, Past Master
San Antonio ················-·No. 694.... Carl King, Master....................... ~.................... 56.98
{Vmes P. Milligan, Senior Warden
Meudell -····--······-·----No. 695..•. GI!~oo. ~~~ll:-1ae:~\v~;d~~-·-············---·-- 41.08
Kenneth C. Cummings, Junior Warden
George W. Uhler. Past Master
Crossroads ···--············-·-No. 696._.Walter A. Pizinger. Senior Warden.............. 67.70
Kenneth J. Davis, Junior Warden
Saint Elmo ···----··········No. 697.... William McCosh. Master
Harry E. Ohinn, Senior Warden
William R. Meyer, Junior Warden
Edmond 0. Burger, Past Master
Robert H. Burrows, Past Master
James S. Pursley, Past Master
William D. Stephens ....No. 698.... Gordon A. Ellis, Master.................................. 56.98
Lawrence A. Wallace, Seni01' Warden
Frank E. Pickett, Junior Warden
William W. Hamilton, Pa.st Master
Vierling Kersey, Past Master
Bixby Knolls ____ __No. 699, ... Ronald A. Sherod, Master.............................. 56.98
G. Wesley Small. Senior Warden
Perry Barrett, Past Master
Ponderosa ·-··············-···No. 700.... gi;J~eA~Hm~~~:°~~~~r...................... 30.98
James W. Van Natta, Junior Warden
Santa Ynez Valley ··-···No. 701.... George Goodwin, Elected Representative.... 49.40
Rosemead -·--··-··-No. 702.... J. P. Dauer, Jr., Seni01' Warden. ..._.............. 56.98
R. W. Wilson. Junior Warden
Westchester ······-···--·No. 703.._Walter W. Hawk, Master.........·-···--········ 56.98
Stokes D. Hughes, Seni01' Warden
lames L. Miles, P.M. and Inspector.............. 56.98
t. Melvin Hall, Past Master
Robert A. Millhouse, Sr.. Past Master
Orinda -···-····---·-No. 704.... Arthur E. Stiefvater, Master
Charles H. Cunningham, Senior Warden
George E. Chase, Junior Warden
S. G. Culver, Past Master
Bradshaw Harrison, Past Master
John J. Prentice, Past Master

Name of Ledee

No. of Lodge

Representative•

Mileaee Allowed ·

El Cerrito ••....••...........•....No. 70S_Lennard J. Carter, Master
Ralph P. Partridge. P.M. and Inspector
John L. Wixon, Past Master
Hunters Point Naval ....No. 706.... Edward T. Ruffin. Master
Oharles R. Shour, Senior Warden
Harold D. Seeskin, Junior Warden
Rodger, S. Shour, Past Master
Lake Tahoe --·····-····-···--No. 707.... Donald L. Oarke, Master..............................
Seafaring ··-·-----No• .708.... 0scar A. Hulstrom, Senior Warden............. .
Ralph J. Irwin, Junior Warden
Lorenzo _______ No. 709...•William R. Parks. Master
Roy J. Abbett, Seni01' Warden
Burnell C. Kahn, Juni01' Warden
Edward C. Will. P .M. and Inspector
Linford W. Hunter, Past Master
Woodrow H. Patterson, Past Master
Charles H. Sedam. Past Master
Anacapa -··--·-----··No. 710.... John Walter Morrison, Senior Warden........
Wallace Roberson, Junior Warden
Lewis A. Pugh, P.M. and Inspector..............
Cecil A. Bt"ann, Past Master
Rim of the World .•........No. 711....James S. Hunter, Master---·······-····---·····-------Edward H. Kammer, Senior Warden
Loyal D. Klopfenstein, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Hartwell. Past Master
Los Altos -····-···--··No. 712-Neil A. DeDontney. Master..........................
Edgar F. Thorsen, Senior Warden
Melvin B. Sicard, Junior Warden
John W. Stout, Past Master
Castro Valley ---·-··········No. 713.... George E. Patterson, Senior Warden
Carl F. LaVo, Past Master
Blue Lakes ···················--No. 714.... Wilbur L. Roberts, Master
Donald E. Forster, Senior Warden
Gordon E. Robinson. P.M. and Inspector
Hans Edwin Olson, Past Master
Magnolia Park ________No. 715.... Wilcken L. Byram, Seni01' Warden..............
Ralph E. Swann, Junior Warden
Clifton H. Darnell, Past Master
Belmont Shore ·············-·No. 716.... J. Eu_gene Fulkerson, Master..........................
Ben C. Lewis, Senior Warden
Charles I. VanDocen, Tunior Warden
Omer D. Akin, Past Master
Francis H. Gentry, Past Master
Wayfarer ·····-·····--No. 717.... William R. Chenard, Master..........................
Charles B. Ruffner. Senior Warden
Robert H. Briggs. Junior Warden
San Lot"enzo Valley ......No. 718.... Harry C. Worley, Elected Representative ..
Estero -··················--····No. 719.... Lester Yeates. Junior Warden. ..................... ..
Mineral King ··········--·-No. 720.... Donald H. Mullin, Master.-.......................... .
William S. Blankenship, Senior Warden
Home --·······----·---No. 721._Marvfn Shapiro, Master................................
Seymour Glick. Seni01' Warden
Sidney Herman, Junior Warden
George E. Tutt ...........-.No. 722.... Elwood H. Becker, Jr.. Master......................
Tames E. Curtis, Junior Warden
Lawrence E. Hendricks, Past Master
Acalanes _______ No. 723_John E . Kennett, Master................................
Robert W. Keller. Senior Warden
San Ramon Valley .•......No. 724..-Duane W. Spencer, Master............................
Harold D. Beckham, Senior Warden
Charles B. Booth, Junior Warden

34.06
58.06

50.72
50.72
63.64

2.94

56.98
56.98

58.38

8.44

35.50
35.04
56.98

5.34
1.70

2.20

460
Name of Lodi•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodp

Lpruentatiw•

M ilea1• Allo-d

Saint John's .................... No. 725.... ~.r.·Ji~~~·w;~d;~---·········

F.arl P. Beard, Junior Warden
Martin H. Quinn, Put Master
Yucaipa - - ··· -- -- No. 726....William H. Fletcher, Senior Warden............
Verdugo Hills - - ·-··-No. 727.... Kenneth Barrette, Master................................
Jack A. Eberhardt, Senior Warden
Ray C. Cathcart, Past Master
Willis N . Hunt, Past Master
Phl!Up B. Stone, Past Master..........................
Lakewood --·------_No. 728.._James Leonard Whitlow, Master..................
Wm. Vernon Richardson, Senior Warden
Ployd 0 . Mason, P.M. and Inspector..........
Fred Byron Gray, Past Masttt
Kenneth L. Hemphill, Pm Master................
Centennial -·--··-_No. 729.... Raymo:nd C. Hauck, Master............................
Albert A. Walters, Senior Warden
Polaris -··----No. 730-~~d :.e= :.'5e~\v~........... ......

1

461

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Oarence J. BroWndl, Junior Warden
Two Rivers _...........-No. 731.... Emest Read, Master........................................
. W. Q. Pat Stuard. Junior Wardep
San Juan - - ---No. 732- C. Rk:hard Grant, Master..............................
Gordon A. Nielsen. SenJor Warden
Golden Empire ..........-No, 733.... Henry S. Hansen, Master..............................
Marvin 0. Olson, Senior Warden
Asa V . Cline, Junior Warden
Toe Robinson, Past Master
Robert K. T ftus, Past Master
Ktt Carson ····-··-·---No. 734...•Joseph Parisi, Master......................................
Wi1liam A. L. Long, Senior Warden
Oharle:s L. Mundy, Junior Warden
Delwin K. BCIT'ber, Past Master
Truman N . Fassett, Past Master
Oasis of Mara _ ... _ ..____ No. 735.... Kenneth A. Van Tassell, Senior Warden....
Gerhardt W. Steil, Junior Warden
Lemon Grove ---········- --No. 736.... Robert F. Housh, Master................................
Ohester T. Hobbs, Senior Warden
LeRoy Nienaber, Junior Warden
William E. Rife, Past Master
Hillsborough ..................No. 737.... Fred F. Livingston, Master
John S. Burszan, lr., Senior Warden
Hobart E. Laugh In, Junior Warden
George H . Christensen, Past Master
Ernest L. Oaks, Past Master
Arvin - - - - -····-··.No. 738.... 0restes Righellis, Master................................
Harold J. Krauter, Senior Warden
La Canada .....- ....-No. 739_•• Thomas I. Smith, Jr., Master..........................
John E. Ramsey, Senior Warden
Melvin N. Wilson, Jr., Junior Warden
Ralph W. Collins, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Opportunity --····---No. 740.... J. M. Reed, Master..........................................
Tyre ·····--···- -----No. 741...•Harold Rowe Beckett, Master........................
Robert A. MiUhouse, Jr., Senior Warden
Morningside Park -··-·-No• 742.... Keith A. Luther, Master..................................
Giles T. Chism, Senior Warden
.Ailbert E . Linde, Past Master
Oakwood · -- - -····--No. 743.... A. Smith Rhodes, Master................................
Donald J. Wood, Senior Warden
Clarence E. Glaze, Past Master

1.90

63.18
56.32

56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
8.40
56.98
8.40
8.40

8.40

69.12
68.40

42.78
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

Name of Lodp

No. of Lodiie

Lpruentatl""'

Milea1• AlloW1'd

San Leandro . -............No. 744.... Edward Evans, Master
William F. Butler, Senior Warden
John W . Parker, Past Master
Peninsula - ·---No. 745.... Theodore August Lukas, Master
Jack Bates Johnson, Senior Warden
Edwin James Siddell. Junior Warden
Soquel - - - -- ·--No. 746.... Rlchacd L. Greene, Master..............................
Oharles N . Cooper, Junior Warden
Alvin W . Wendt, Past Master
Claude H. Morriaon ......No. 747.... Wyatt D. DeRamus. Junior Warden............
Highland ·····- - ········-No. 748.... Ridgley A. K. Bond, Master......................... .
Russell L. Sturgeon, Senior Warden
Walter S. Brooks, Past Master
Guy W . Whelchel, Past Master
Merced _ _ ___ __No. 749.... Lloyd P. Souza, Junior Warden ....................
William A. Jensen, Past Master
Mother Colony ..............No. 750.... Bemard C. Renstrom, Master........................
James E. Seay, Junior Warden
Hamilton --··-·-····--No. 751....Robert W . Bussman. Senior Warden............
William T . Miazga, Past Master
P. D. Sprague, Past Master
Luther Burbank ·---··-·-··No. 752.... 0rlo E. Winkler, Master.............................. ..
Charles E. Dix, Senior Warden
.Ailfred C. Dix, Junior Warden
Charles B. Wight, P.M. and lnspector...-Fred TillmannShofer, Past Master
Lawndale --·-·····-··No. 753.... Morris A. Hooper, Master............................. .
lames H. McConnell, Senior Warden
Wmiam C. Harris, Junior Warden
San Pablo -·---··-···-...No. 75.f.... Bobbie B. Buerkens, Master
Everett Durkee, Senior Warden
Clyde Mann, Junior Warden
Golden Bowl -······--·-.No. 755.... Cyril. Franklin Whitesell, Senior Warden..
William Garth Dusatko, Junior Warden
Clayton Valley _______ No. 756.... Everett L. Burks, Master.............................. ..
E.G. Walter Dubbs, Senior Warden
Glenn F. Gregg, Junior Warden
Joseph Brouss, Past Master
Alfred Pimental, Past Master
Channel _ _ _ __ No. 757....William E. Chandler, Master...................... ..
James H. Tanaka, Junior Warden
Wendell H. Nicol, P.M. and Inspector...... ..
West Covina --··-·-·-No. 758.... Keith A. Howe, Senior Warden....................
John W. Parker, Junior Warden
El Rancho _ _ __No. 759....'rhoralf Thorsen, Master............................... .
Jerry Walvoord, Senior Warden
Lakeside -···- - ······---.No. 760.... Lyle E. Foote, Junior Warden......................
Byron J. Conrad, Past Master
Josiah W. Roller ·-·--·-No. 761.._0swe T. Lund, Master....................................
Joseph W. Doucette, Senior Warden
'Thelo A. Perrott, Past Master
Coastside -··-···- ·--No· 762.... Clarence W. Howell, Master
Edwin C. Kinney, Senior Warden
James P. Williams. Junior Warden
William Murphy, Past Master
Glen E. Staley, Past Master
Arab1c --·--···--·-···--No. 763.... i:~ ~J.a~~d,~s:~~;·:w~~J~
Heritage -·-··-··---···-No. 764.._Wilhed A. Brown, Master.......................... ..
Camillo L. Passarelli, Senior Warden
Dana R. W elltt ________ _No. 765.... Kam C. Akana, Master................................... .
Jahn H. Adams, Senior Warden

7.34
67.70
61.94

25.82
58.06
1.80
4.86
4.86
56.98

56.98
2.10

7.94
7.94
56.98
58.38
68.80
2.94

................... 56.98
56.98
56.98

462

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name of Lod&e

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

Milea11e Allowed

Philip F. Lucas, Past Master
Harold C. McLendon, Past Master
James H. Kew ·--····----No. 766.._Joseph G. Bowers, Master.............................. 56.98
Frederick Carl Cratz, Senior Warden
·
Glenn Franklin Brannum, Junior Warden
William Robusch, J,>.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
Sherman Davis, Past Master
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .... No. 767....Don C. Seare, Master...................................... 56.98
George W. Feasell, Senior Warden
J. W. Nicks, Junior Warden
Earle A. Gray, Past Master
Alfred J. Navin, Past Master
Raymond W. Phebus, Past Master
Zenith --·-·---··-··No. 768.... Enos J. Walker, Master.................................. 56.98
Howard Langworthy, Senior Warden .......... 56.98
George F. Bacigalupi, Junior Warden
Paul E. Stretch, Past Master
Palmdale ·---·-··--····-No. 769.... Straud McBride, Jr., Master.......................... 50.H
Robert M. Hesselgrave, Senior Waroen
George R. Wilson, Junior Warden
Leonard C. Meyer, Past Master
Robert D. Rietzke, Past Master
Lake Chabot -··--···-··No. 770.... Newell E. Bryan, Master
Fred A. Daws, Junior Warden
Mission Bay _________No. 77L.. Hugh T . Dismuke, Master.............................. 67.70
Agryll Torbert, Senior Warden
BobbyG. Hooten. Junior Warden
J. Lowell Brown, Past Master
Avenal ----·-···-·-No. 772.... {)~e1 ~: ~=fi~.="\v~;d;~·············· 35.88
773.... Paul L. Temple, Master.................................. 41.08
TeJon
Herman S. Little, Senior Warden
George C. Poloynis, Past Master
H. Guy Walford, Past Master
Waikiki --·--····No. 774.... Kenneth L. Look, Mast.er................................ 338.19
Paul Y. E. Ing, Senior Warden
Ahoon H. Wong, Past Master
San Diegulto -··--.....No. 775_Joseph R. Robison, Senior Warden................ 64.20
Addison N. Turner, Past Master
East Whittier _ ____No. 776.... Peter J. Florio, Master............................. ....... 58.38
Russell W . Spencer, Senior Warden
John A. Thomas, Junior Warden
Richard M. Lustig, P.M. and Inspector........ 58.38
Joseph C. Freeland, Past Master
Pinnacle - - - - - ·--·No. 777.... 0. V. Sawyer, Master.................................... 13.06
Robert W. Dunlap, Junior Warden
Percy H. Dunlap, Past Master
William M. Head, Past Master
La Mirada -·-·---...No. 778.... Richard L. Riemer, Master.............................. 58.06
Howard C. Campbell, Senior Warden
James B. Baker, Past Master
Five Points ---·..···-··-No. 779..•• l<enneth R. Niles, Senior Warden.................. 56.98
Charles C. Klein, Junior Warden
·
Riviera -------···--No. 780.... Mark R. Throssel, Master.............................. 56.98
Jc;hn B. Patterson, Senior Warden
Robert E. Strasser, Junior Warden
John A Jackson, Past Master
Byron Shelby Warner, Past Master
Rolling Hills ···········-··...No. 781....Donnell L. Lowe, Senior Warden.................. 56.98
Silverado -····-- ····--.... No. 782.... Charles P. Blazemore, Master........................ 3.26
Otto W. Lindke, Senior Warden
James W. Kennedy, Junior Warden

--------.No.

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

463
Milea11e Allowed

Romayne Harvey Bantz, P.M. and
Inspector ···········-······································-· 3.26
Lowe R. Snyder, Past Master
No. 783.... George WashinglJOn Bennett, Master.........- 47.48
Mojave
Ray Ellsworth Moore, Senior Warden
Fred D. Harrison, Jr., Junior Warden
Leland Stanford __ _No. 78-f._.Gharles R. Arment, Master............................ 28.64
Chester W. Kimball, Senior Warden
William F. George, Sr., Past Master
Paramount _____.No. 785....William Leon Derr, Master.......................... 56.98
Burley Wilbur Green, Senior Warden
Marion Albert Jenkins, Junior Warden
Rio Linda - - - - - - -••No. 786.... Lester E . Spears, Senior Warden.................. 8.40
Westminster _______No. 787.__ Floyd !-yman Hunter, Senior Warden.......... 58.06
David Martin Allen, Junior Warden
No. 788.-Thaine McKee, Senior Warden....·-·····-·-- 37.98
Sierra
Oak Plahla -··-············-·No. 789.. _Jack R. Butler, Master.................................... 8.40
Tames K. Wilson, Senior Warden.................. 8.40
KE. Niebuhr, Past Master
Granada Hills ____No. 790.... Harry C. Daum, Master.'·············-··············· 56.98
King E. Greenwood, Senior Warden
Merrill E. Balser, Junior Warden
LeRoy W. Schlaegel, Past Master
Gen. Henry H. ArnolcL.No. 791....Jack DeMaris, Master.................................... 49.66
Robert E. Hedblom, Senior Warden
Clyde B. Tyler, Past Master
Millbrae -···-·-···-··--·No. 792.... Robert C. Olson, Master
James W. Bateman, Senior Warden
Alfred P. Casidy, Junior Warden
Maya ·-···-····-----·No. 793 ___ Pedro Antonio Salazar, Senior Warden...... 56.98
Mt. Wllaoa _______ No. 794....Henry M. Welch, Master...·-···-··-·--····- 58.20
Lawrence Lamb, Senior Warden..·-············· 58.20
WillardJ,· Stone, Junior Warden
T. W. eidner, P.M. and Inspector.............. 58.20
American River -···-·······No. 795._Alfred L. Prevost. Master............... _............. 10.28
Jems E . Wagner, Senior Warden
Robert E . Green. Past Master
Golden Valley -············No. 796.... Henry Frank Puthoff, Master........................ 61.94
Ernest R. Zuick, Senior Warden
Tila Pass --······-···....No. 797.... Segundo S. Dayrit, Junior Warden.............. 56.98
Ashland ......___ __ _No. 798.... Merle Jay Fisher, Master
Edward D. Fernandes, Senior Warden
Edward H. Clark, Junior Warden
Bay Claire Vista ............No. 799 .... Frank Ross Davis, Senior Warden.............. · 67.70
Thomas F. McAleer, Jr., Past Master
Rio Hondo - -·····-········No. 800.... Sammie C. Phipps, Master.......... _ ............- 56.98
Koolau ·····-···-···-······--No. 801.... Joseph P. Dennehy, Master.......... _................ 338.19
Yucca Valley ................No. 802.... Louis L. Cunningham, Master...- ............,...... 67.22
Alexander F. Furton, Senior Warden
Harry C. Rocque, Past Master
The Gabilan _______ __ No. 803.. _Eugene F. Dong, Master.........·-····---··-······ 10.74
Moreno Valley ...........-.No. 804.... Jesse B. Banta, Master.................................... 62.40
Camellia ..........................No. 805 .... Mark E. Schrock. Master.......·-··················· 56.98
Donald R. Stroud, Senior Warden
Marion D. Burke, Junior Warden
Simi Valley ....- - - ...... No. 806.._ William W. Hanson, Master.·- - -----·--···· 55.30
Conejo Valley ................No. 807.... Frank T. Roberts, Master.........•.......- ...·-··- 54.60
T. Bruce Baker, Junior Warden
Scepter ··- ·-···..···-·--........-UO___ Valery Michael Riman, Master...................... 8.40
Richard V. Stall, Junior Warden
Total ---····-·--·-··-····· ·····-··-·--···$36,058.05

~

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

0\
~

With Membership, Charter Dates, Pees, Dues, Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments, Contributions.
Column tided "G. L. Per Capita" includes $2.25 for Grand Lodge plus $1.00 for Masonic Homes, and Degree Pees.
Column tided "Members Contributions" includes Homes Contribution of $25.00, G. W. Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and California
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A. L. 5961.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges page 50t
No.

Memben

1 California ----------··········--·· 1
2 Western Star---···------ 2
3 Tehama ----···--··---·-------· 3
4 Benicia ····--···-····-- 5
5 Tuolumne ·······-·····--·------ 8
6 Corinthian -------·------- 9
7 San Jose-·--··-····--···-·-- 10
8 Yount --··--··----·------- 12
9 Nevada···-··--------······--···- 13
10 Temple ··-----··-------··-- 14
11 Eureka -···-----···--·--··--··- 16
12 La Parfalte Union.........._ 17
13 Mountain Shade ··-······---- 18
14 San Joaquin ·--··---------··-··- 19
15 Washington-----····-·-···- 20
16 Hawaiian ·--·---·-····-··----···· 21
17 Occidental ·-·-···-·-·····-····- 22
18 Madison -···-····-···--·- 23
19 Mariposa --······-······---- 24
20 Georgetown ·------- 25
21 El Dorado ·--·--·-······-·- 26
22 Trinity ----··----- 27
23 Golden Gate -·--····-·····----- 30
24 Gold Hill --····--··----·- 32
25 Ophir ------··-·-----··-· 33
26 San Diego ·-·-··------·-··- 35
2.7 Howard -···-·-------- 37

473
209
848
238
279
457
538
561
177
247
373
113
56
812
916
408
624
322
196

Lodae

28 Santa Cruz -·-·--·····-··- 38
29 Sacramento ...................._ 40
30 Martinez-·····---·····--·-··-- 41
31 Los Angeles --·---------------· 42
32 Hiram ---··---------- 43
33 Mount Moriah --·······----·-·· 44
34 Crescent -········--···-- 45
35 Texas ·-----·-------------·--·- 46
36 Porbestown ·····--··--···----- 50
37 llllnolstown -········----·····- 51
38 Suisun --···---·······-··-· 55
39 Volcano -----·-···-- 56
40 Santa Rosa ····-···-·····- 57
41 Union ---·-····-------- 58
42 Gravel Range --··-·········- 59
43 Plumas ----····---······-- 60
44 Live Oak --·---···--·-····---····· 61
45 Natoma --····-··----·--····- 64
46 Amador -------·····-·········--- 65
47 Morning Star-··-··-·--··------- 68
48 Enterprise ·····--··-·----··-- 70
49 Bear Mountain ·-------- 76
SO Calaveras - · · - · - - -·- 78
Sl Humboldt---- - - - - - 79
S2 Ione - - - - - - - · · · - 80
S3 Yolo ---···--···----- 81
S4 Vesper -·--·---·---···- 84
5S Naval --·--·--·-··-------·- 87
56 Rme's Bar----·-····-·-- 89
S7 North Star --·-·--·-·----··- 91
S8 St. Helena --------···-·-·--- 93
S9 Henry Clay ·--------·-····· 95
60 Homltos --·-------- 98
61 Yosemite ----------- 99
62 Clay
__.__101

66

277
173
569
117
89
1045
262

569
813
420
977
122
341
228
54
127
81
295
110
678
742
96
189
929
353
94

666
377
76

122
532
102
118
243
H78
54
82
137
78
103
S13

110

0.aner

Degree

Allil.

lanied

Pees

Pees

Dues

lniL

Passed

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854

100
100
100

20.00
20.00
10.00

18
15
15
18
12
18
12
18
16
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
15
16
12
12
15
12
15
20
12

7
7

6

5

5

19
6
2
13

24
4

8
32

1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

75
75
75
75

125
50
75

50
100
75

125
125
175
100
78
50
50
75

-

2.00
5.00
5.00
6.00

-

2.00

-

15.00
5.00

-

10.00
10.00
25.00

5.00
-

125
100
50
50
140
50

5.00
10.00
1.00
4.00

100
100

1.00
10.00

75

125
75

100
125
50
50
60
75

50
75
75

50
75
75

100
50
100
50
50
85
75

so
50
100
75

50

so
so

60
55
90

so

-1.00

-

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
5.00

-

10.00
5.00
10.00

-2.50

1.00
5.00
5.00

-

5.00
3.00
10.00

-

-

10.00
5.00
5.00
1.00

10.00
-

16
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
16
12
15
12
15
12
15

12
18
12
16
12
12
12
12
16
16
12
IS

12

Raised

7

5
7

11

9

7

7

7

13

10
2
3
10
2

9
6

5

4
10
2

-

10
17
8
.8

-

10
14
6
5

5

9
2
2
16
13
7

7
6
3
1
3
14

7
5

6
2

1
9
12
9
2
6
16
12

6
14
10
1
5
18

2
5
16

7

7

5
18
4
45
5
6

6
18
4
46
4
8
3

8
15
4
48
5
6
3
1
8
2
12

-

11
21
1
2
8
17
4
13
13
3
3
10
2
1
8
9
7

s
3
4
1
12
3

I

I

1
8
1
11
3
11
20
1
2
7
14

5
13
10
8
4
9
3
1

s
s
s

10
3
4

-

17
4

7

-

8
1
14
3
11
18
1
4
14
13
6

14

11
7

4
10
3
4
6
9
6

s

2
3

-

16
6

G.L.
PerCapica

Members

Endow.

Cooat'b.

Conuib.

1493.50
683.00
2811.50

245.00
270.00
715.00
235.00
70.00
455.00
295.00
505.00
175.00
190.00
400.00
70.00
35.00
400.00
620.00
280.00
305.00
245.00
175.00
60.00
315.00
420.00
315.00
70.00
210.00
585.00
420.00

1241.50
473.63
3023.00
572.00

778.75

906.50
1472.75
1733.75
1774.00
578.50
808.25
1199.00
363.50
184.00
2649.00
2978.75
1337.25
2012.25
1062.25
640.50
217.50
.882.50
599.00
1839.50
372.25
282.50
3410.50
858.00

1796.75
2660.75
1351.00
3275.25
407.25
1099.00
738.25
177.50
430.25
267.25
973.00
337.50
2230.00
2415.25
315.00
615.75
3012.50
1191.25
307.50
2201.25
1230.00
252.00
401.00
1751.50
333.00
386.25
802.2S

3723.25
193.50
265.25
437.00
264.50
329.25
1689.50
367.25

330.00
575.00
140.00
1755.00
175.00
210.00
105.00
60.00
280.00
120.00
420.00

-

410.00
735.00
85.00
70.00
330.00
620.00
140.00
455.00
455.00
105.00
105.00
350.00
70.00
35.00
305.00
340.00
245.00
175.00
105.00
140.00
35.00
455.00
155.00

347.35

919.00
1635.50
1135.40
366.50
500.00
837.00
195.00
81.00
697.00
3013.70
1313.00
1009.50
767.00
474.50
209.00
1323.13
436.00
1314.37
64.00
84.50
2922.00
530.00

883.63
3788.75
944.76
2586.01
289.70
850.00
469.71
21.00
313.00
218.60
867.25
343.00
1565.00
1600.00
204.00
391.66
2426.00
752.35
120.00
1430.00
754.50
35.50
159.50
1100.00
344.00
241.00
315.50
3356.50
61.00
110.00
286.50
290.50
120.00
1285.50
415.00

...
CJ\

UI

No.
I.odse
63 Oroville ·--····--·-···103
64 Lexington --·-···-···-···· 104
65 Arcata ···············-·············106
__ 110
66 Pajaro
67 Chico
111
68 Summit -····-···-··--··-112
69 Eden ····-·-··--···-····-··-113
70 Concord ··-·---·-··----117
71 Fidelity -···--·------120
72 Alamo --··-····-·-·····-····122
73 Sotoyome --··-···-·-123
74 Table Mountain ···-····-···124
75 La Fayette ···········-······---.. 126
76 Hermann ···-········-··········-127
77 Visalia -····-··-········----128
78 Nicolaus · · · - - - - -.. 129
79 Woodbridge -···-·-···131
80 Sincerity ·--·-···-······-132
81 Vacaville ··--···--·-····--13-t
82 Valley ·-·-··-·-·-····-135
83 Pacific ····-·······················-136
84 Crockett ··············-·····-····-139
85 Curtis ---·-···-···-···140
86 Grafton --·····-------141
87 Franklin ··-····--···---···-143
88 Oriental •........................•.. 144
89 Vitruvius ·········-·············145
90 Abell ·---····-------146
91 Eel River --···-·-·-··147
92 Lassen ··-····-·--····-······-149
93 Molino --···-··---···-··-150
94 Woodland -·---··--····--156
95 Keystone ---·----161
9"6 Harmony
...lM

97 Excelsior ---············-········166·
98 Alameda ·······---····-······167
~ Redwood City ···-·---------168
tbo Mission -·-····················----169
iOt Elk Grove ·-·-···········-··.173
tb2 Drytown -····--···-··········174
1'03 Antioch ·-·····-···-·········-··175
H>t Phoenix _________ 178
tbs Mendocino ------179
t'o6 Petaluma -----·-····-·---180
107 Russian River -··-·-------.181
tb8 Arbuckle --·-·-·-······182
t'09 Clear Lake -·-·--········183
(10 Sierra Valley -···········-··.184
111 Claiborne ---·---····185
1'12 Evening Star -----------186
f 13 Keith -------··········-187
1l4 Oakland ··-····-················-188
1!15 Northern Light ·--···-··.190
116 Marin -·-·-·-·-··-·----191
1'17 Santa Barbara ---·-······192
fl8 Ferndale ······-----------.193
f19 Mountain View --···-···--.194
(20 Buckeye ·····-·········-····-···195
l21 San Simeon ···············--··-196
i:22 Wilmington ·-········--··-··.198
~23 Hartley ···-·-··-·-·-··---199
1;24 Truckee ----·--·······-····200
(25 Silveyville ····-··········-······201
l26 Pentalpha ·-·······-···········-202
(27 Confidence ·····-··········-··-203
l28 Salinas ---···-·············--·204
1.29 Olivet ·····-··-··········-··-205
130 Stanislaus ············-·········-206
131 Anaheim ..........................2CYT
132 Rio Vista - ·--··-············-203

Charter

Degree

Members

Issued

376
649
345
419
598
65
448
390
577
460
244
298
237
173
571
120
198
99
288
99
548
492
97
115
149
332
129
362
259
239
165
312
39
28

1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
.1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864

65
150
75
75
90
50
105
75
100
75
75
80
75
100
75
50
50
100
75
50
100
75
50
50
75
100
50
50
50
100
50
50
50
50

426
267
665
610
144
61
416
767
119
342
123
85
138
35
80
73
189
791
114
544
362
92
383
152
97
664
238
143
156
447
92
637
142
660
. 505
184

1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1855
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870

100
102
100
100
50
50
75
75
100
80
75
50
50
50
50
50
50
75
65
100
75
50
100
75
50
125
65
90
90
100
75
105
50
75
105
100

Aflil.

Fees

Pees

Dues

Ioit.

Pmed

Raised

5.00
1.00
1.00

15
16
15
18
15
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
12
18
15
15
16
15
12
12
25
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
16
12

10
15
10
8
11
2
7
11
11
13
4
9

7
16
7
9
15
2
6
12
10
12
8
6

I

-

11
13
5
6
16
2
6
11
17
9
6
6

4
12
12
4
1
17
7
13
9
2
.2
4
3
3
7
3
4
6
12
1

2
8

2
8
9
5
2
19
4
9
7
4
6
8
2
3
5
7
4
3
7
1

-

5.00

-

10.00
15.00

-

5.00
1.00

-

20.00

-

5.00
5.00
5.00

-

12.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
1.00

1.00

2.50
5.00

5.00
5.00
1.00
50.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

-

5.00
1.00
10.00

5.00

-

2.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

-

-

5.00
5.00

-

10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

1.00

15
12
18
12
12
12
12
16
15
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
12
16
15
20
15
15
12
24
18
15
15
18

11

2
4
18
5
16
8
4
5
3
2
6
6
6
3
4
11
1

-

-

-

-

10
18
14

8
18
12
7
3

8
24
14
7
5
1
15
32
1
6
1

6
1

-14 -14
26
2
7

-

2
5

6
-

1
7
3
9
9
1
17
2
3
14
4
2
2
5
5
12
2

14
24

3

31
2
7
1

-

5

4

-

1
6
6
6
8
1
12
5
3
13
4
1
3
3
4
14
4
12
16
2

5
-

3
1
1
8
8
7
10
1
10
6
3
17
4
3
4
3
5
14
5
12
20
2

G.L.
Pet Capita

Memben
Coouib.

1227.25
2130.50
1143.25
1365.25
1842.50
214.00
1465.25
1298.25
1874.25
1512.75
801.25
979.75
761.50
563.75
1851.25
415.50
644.75
328.75
990.00
337.75
1741.00
1590.50
325.25
383.50
499.25
1012.75
431.25
1184.75
857.75
768.25
546.00
1024.50
126.50
91.00

385.00
550.00
350.00
280.00
385.00
70.00
245.00
385.00
385.00
455.00
140.00
340.00
110.00
140.00
445.00
420.00
140.00
35.00
630.00
245.00
455.00
315.00
95.00
70.00
140.00
105.00
105.00
245.00
130.00
190.00
210.00
420.00
35.00

855.75
1411.13
1070.50
749.50
1371.20
50.00
941.25
912.50
1655.50
772.15
362.00
680.25
178.25
400.00
1309.16
34.00
525.00
282.00
600.75
124.00
108.50
766.50
146.00
176.00
1031.00
1556.50
271.00
650.50
766.00
523.50
180.75
639.00
39.00
58.00

1358.50
927.75
2087.50
1944.00
463.00
192.75
1339.75
2481.00
378.75
1118.50
388.75
278.25
453.75
113.75
263.25
238.25
607.50
2556.00
368.00
1767.25
1171.00
302.00
1267.50
500.50
304.75
2179.25
785.50
425.25
499.75
1454.00
309.75
2094.00
469.25
2163.50
1681.75
598.50

375.00
655.00
515.00
235.00
35.00

1055.50
607.50
2174.00
1632.50
520.00
171.00
675.71
2096.75
110.00
686.00
289.50
219.50
144.00
61.00
109.50
208.50
410.00
1094.50
118.00
1318.70
949.29
393.50
1414.40
454.72
300.00
1686.50
437.00
958.50
281.15
1550.00
244.00
659.50
168.50
1320.50
1241.68
531.50

-

-

-!90.00
985.00
70.00
270.00

-

95.00
200.00

210.00

-

35.00
270.00
105.00
390.00
440.00
35.00
655.00
70.00
105.00
490.00
140.00
70.00
70.00
175.00
175.00
445.00
95.00
540.00
940.00
105.00

Endow.

Coouib.

..
O'I
O'I

....

O'I
'I

No.
Lodae
_209
133 King David's
134 Prtendshlp
10
135 San Benito
11
136 South San Pranclsco.._ ...212
137 San Buenaventura -··-2H
138 Oak Grove -·-···-··-215
139 Doric
··-···--216
HO Monterey -·--·---·-·-··217
Ht Mosaic --------218
142 Speranza Itallana ······-····219
220
143 Downey - - - · - ·
144 Inyo
..221
._222
145 Roseville
146 Bakersfield
-224
H7 Brooklyn - - - - - 2 2 5
226
148 San Mateo -·
149 Athens --·-----228
150 Solano -··--·---229
151 North Butte ----·-·--·230
152 Covelo ---··-·--231
153 Janesville ·----········-··---"2
154 Calistoga -···-··-···--233
155 Hope- -------··-234
156 Surprise Valley ·-····---·235
157 Hills Perry - ---236
158 Guadalupe - - - - -...237
'159 Colusa
240
'160 Santa Ana --···--·..241
161 Magnolia - - - - - 2 4 2
162 Eucalyptus ---·-··--243
·t63 ·Alcatraz --·--···---244
164 Laurel - - - - - - - 2 4 5
f 65 Pomona -·
·-246
166 Fresno
lf7
167 Alturas -248

Mcmben

250
168 Adln
' 169 Landmark _ _ _ _ _253

101
110
283
209
395
150

'170 Reading -·-·-·--··-···-..254
'171 Welcome -··-··-....2S5
I

t.72 Lodf -·--·---..256

' 173 Penrhyn --·---·....2S8
' 174 Evergreen --·--·-259
,175 King Solomon's -···---······260
. 176 Tuacan
--261
177 Lompoc --·····-·-·..262
' 178 Hesperlan - · · 179 Orland - - ·--·-···--··-265
180 North East ··--··-...2<i6
181 Galt ---···-··-..267
268
182 Durant
· 183 Olive Branch ······-···-·-269
184 Snow Mountain -·········-271
185 Pasadena ---·--····Z12
186 Anchor
···-·········.'Zl3
187 Arroyo ---·-···--274
188 Oakdale ----··-.'Zl5
189 Selma - · - - - - - - ··277
190 Southern CaJtfornla ...-278
191 Hanford
....279
192 Madera ----·--.280
193 Mount Shasta ............•.....281
194 CaJayoml -·····-··-···--·...282
195 South West _....................283
196 San Miguel ·····-······-·····-285
197 Paso Robles -·····-·········-··286
198 Wtnnedumah -···--·--·287
199 Maxwell - - · · · - - 2 8 8
200 Elsinore --···-·········-·-289
201 East Gate
290
202 Santa Paula --·---...291
203 Los Gatos ---·---292
204 Orange Grove -·····-··--293

™

422
741
182
228
442
565
432

309
258
245
917
162
467
780
502
643
200
567
243
77
166
128
112
70
158
213
158
580
490
535
560
259
438
730
197

753
418
95
229
416
167

57
89
430
313
46
549
633
181
211
239
448
234
275
158
69
583
79
307
249
68
138
685
413
398
336

Olaner
hl1lcd

Degree

1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878
1878

100
115
65
95
100
100
100

1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889

l'ea

75
75
100
125
50

Allil.
Dua

Init.

Puled

bilCd

PerCaJJica

1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

15
12
12
15
18
18
18
20
18
12
12
18
15
18
15
18
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
15
15
18
15
12
15
18
18

4
22
3
6
9
11
4
18
11
5
29
5
17
8
5
15
6

5
21
4
5
13
9
5
18
12
5
38
4
H
10
4
11
3
6
6
3
4
3
1

8
13
5
4
13
8
3
14
8
3
41
3
17
H
5
17

1359.25
2448.00
603.50
687.75
1458.50
1815.50
1390.00
1041.25
856.50
783.25
3046.00
528.75
156250
2531.25
1606.50
2084.00
646.50
1829.25
802.75
247.50
546.00
411.25
367.00
221.00
522.00
723.75

-1.00

10.00

-

75

5.00
10.00

100
75
100
50
75

10.00

75
50
75
50

so

50

75
75
50
75
100
99
75
50
115
80
65

50
50
90
90
50
50

75
115
50
75

75
50
50
50
80

75
75

-

-

--

1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

-

10.00
1.00

-10.00
5.00
-3.00
1.00

2.00
1.00
5.00

--

3.00

-l.00
-2.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

1.00
-

115
125
65

-6.00

75

1.00
12.00

80

75
100
50
90

75
105
50

75
100

75
75
75
50

75
75

G.L

l'ea

-

-3.00
-

5.00
l.00
10.00
3.00

-10.00
-

1.00

12
16
12
18
12
12
18
18
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
12
15
20
15
12
15
12
18
15
12
12
16
12
15
18
12
18
12
18
18
18

7
6
2
5

1
-·5
11
4
14
21
10
5
4
8
15
3

-

-

5
15
5
11
13

7
4
12
16

6
6
13
18

-

-

..

-

3
11

5

13
8

-

19
8

7
1
1
4
4

-

5
26

7
5
4
4
1
8
5
5
21
2

7
2

-

5
3
16
25
15

-

5
12
3
15
15
9

-8
7

7
6
l
2
4
2
1

9

.

-

11

8
6
23
8
1
17
10
8

-

13
5

7
7
24
6

-

16
9

7

-

1
4
5
3
9
22
6
2
5
6
2

1
4
5
3
11
20
4
3
5
6
2

7

7

5
2
23
4
8
2

5
2
20
4
12
2
1
1

-

2

7

7

10
16
13

10
10 .
12

52550
1912.00
1609.00
1753.75
1753.50
852.50
1450.00
2392.25
638.25

325.00
351.00
922.50
682.50
1254.50
458.75
2468.25
1351.25
287.00
793.00
1353.00
54850
186.25
285.75
1386.75
1028.00
155.50
1783.25
2115.50
602.00
682.75
787.50
1410.25

75250
906.00
525.25
233.25
1936.00
260.25
1018.25
805.50
222.00
456.50
2178.25
1375.00
1325.00
1109.25

.Mcmben

Coauib.

140.00
795.00
130.00
210.00
390.00
435.00
140.00
680.00
385.00
175.00
1075.00
175.00
595.00
280.00
200.00
575.00
210.00
245.00
210.00
70.00
175.00

-

35.00

-

200.00
435.00
165.00
565.00
935.00
350.00
175.00
140.00
365.00
525.00
105.00

305.00
130.00
385.00
245.00
480.00
280.00

-

715.00
330.00
245.00
35.00
35.00
190.00
140.00

-

275.00
910.00
245.00
175.00
165.00
190.00
85.00
280.00
200.00
200.00
735.00
70.00
245.00
70.00
175.00
104.00
610.00

-

900.00
575.00

ladow.
Coaaib.

852.09
1348.78
472.50
676.75
1182.50
2316.00
791.50
644.00
540.00
835.00
3937.87
375.50
103650
1880.00
951.00
1775.00
429.00
919.80
500.00
10.00
340.00
280.50
165.50
33.00
343.25
780.00
239.50
1483.22
1870.00
1253.00
1120.00
561.00
992.68
2378.72
158.00

101.50
224.50
876.00
314.75
563.00
152.00
1631.41
913.00
100.00
437.00
4254.00
346.50
5.00
270.00
1278.67
638.00
46.00
2067.41
2576.94
422.11
422.00
794.00
2278.37
471.00
661.00
441.00
32.00
1053.37
160.00
673.00
559.39
100.00
468.14
2529.98
1074.25
865.00
782.75

.-.

0\

co

.....

0\
\()

Lodge

No.

i05 Traver ~---·----29<!

Mcmbcn

O.artet
Issued

~06 Mt. Jackson ·---···-···---29S
207 Silver Gate ·-··········-·······296
208 Dunsmuir --···-····---297
209 Liberty ······-···········-·········299
210 Redlands ·················-·······300
211 Ontario -···--···-----30 1
212 Santa Lucia ......................302
213 Porterville ......•.................303
214 Reedley -········-·····-········304
21S Azusa · ·····-·········-·············30S
216 Ashlar ..............................306
217 Santa Monica ·-······-····307
218 Monrovia ······-····-············308
219 Delano ·····--·-·················309
220 Sisson -··
....310
221 Los Banos --·-··············312
222 Tehachapi ····-···-···········313
223 Temescal -·-····
314
224 Norwalk ·················--····31S
225 Sanger ·-···························316
226 Fallbrook ····-·-··-············317
227 Emmanuel ........................318
228 Hollenbeck ·-····················319
229 . South Gate ·········-··········320
230 Alisal -··-···-··-···--···3 21
231 Alhambra .......................... 322
232 Whittier ~---··-···-323
233 Corona ···-························324
234 Consuelo ···-······-············.325
235 Needles ----····-······.32 6
236 Long Beach ---·-··········327
237. Redondo ·····--··--···--·..323
238 Vallee de France ............329
239. Kilauea
·----339

149
116
126S
266
378
S06
S27
170
S16
167
3S2
336
388
337
2S4
llS
148
204
284
430
346
164
91
791
S27
178
637
809
436
361
348
62S
7H
123
192

1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
189S
189S
189S
1896
18%
1897
1897
1897

:MO Pacific Grove -···--·········331
241 · San Pedro ···········-···········332
242 Alta -·-······-····················333
2-43 Covina ·····-······················334
2H West Gate ·····-··········-·····33S
24S Fruitvale ····-·······--·········336
246 Carquinez ···············-·······337
247 San Jacinto ······--········338
248 Fullerton ·-·······················339
249 Oxnard ·····--·-····-·········341
250 San Fernando ·······-·········343
2Sl Starr King ·-·····················3+t
2S2 Brentwood ·······-··-·-········34S
2S3 Palo Alto ·-········----···-346
2S4 McKinley ·····-····-··-······34 7
2SS San Bernardino ·····-·······348
2S6 Sequoia -·-···-····-···--31 9
2S7 Palestine --······-···········.351
258 Sunset ·-··············-···········352
259 Pinole ---··---···3 53
260 Presidio ·-···-··-················354
261 Hollywood ........•...............355
262 Mill Valley ··········---····356
263 Buena Park ·-············-·····357
264 Golden State ..................358
265 Loyalton ---····-··-·······359
266 San Francisco ·············-···360
Z67 Fort Bragg ···········-···········361
268 Charity ·······-··-·····-······.362
269 Berkeley -~·-··-·-············363
270 Willits ············--············365
271 Las Palmas --···············366
2!2 South Pasadena -·······-···367
2,73 Unity -···-'-····-·~·-······368
274 Ocean P*'1'k
27S Amity -·······--···········-·· .370

298
SH
139
SH
1223
792
192
119
393
4S6
742
Sl9
146
772
497
941
974
490
315
182
4H
1256
448
349
641
%
267
157
178
609
160
1066
61S
600
527
383

1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1904
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
190S
1905
1905
190S
1905
1905

--·······------¥.9

Desree
F'-es

Allil.

Fees

Dues

Init.

Passed

Raised

1.00
S.00

lS
18
JS
lS
12
lS
12
lS
lS
lS
16
lS
lS
18
18
12
18
18
lS
12
12
lS
12
lS
18
12
18
16
15
lS
16
16
16
15
lS

4

6
1
19
3
26
12
18
4
16
1
11
lS
8

s

80

so
so

-

ISO

-

12S
7S
7S
7S

so

7S
11S.
SS
12S
100
100

50
7S
7S
7S
llS
7S
7S

so

100
100
7S
100
100
llS
90
7S
12S
12S
100
125

7S
12S
S3
llS
21S
100
7S
50
100
100
12S
100
6S
100
7S
7S
100
100
100

75
100
125
100
100
125
50
100
75
100
7S

75
80
115
100
115
100

-

-

lS.00

-

2.00

-

1.00
2.00

-

S.00
S.00

-

2S.OO

-

-

-

-1.00
2S.OO

-

12.00

-

-

-

lS
24
12
lS
18
18
12
lS
12
18
lS
lS
lS
12
lS
lS
18
18
15
15
18
15
18
15
18
12
18
24
18
12
18
15
16
15

-

ts

1.00

18

2S.OO
S.00

-

2S.OO
S.00

-

10.00

S.00
-

10.00

10.00
1.00
10.00

-

20.00
15.00

-

-

10.00

-

-

S.00

5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

-

20
4
24
12
19
4
19
1
12
12
9
9
6
2

-

s

6
22
3
8
1
1
6
3
10
12
13

.

s

3
19
31
4
5

8
20
8
30
21
16

s

4
19
17
28
11
3
13
12
38
7
6
9
6
5
16
12
32
10

-

3
1
7

s
3
30
9
8
6
4

s
s

-

2

s

4
24
4

s

1
1
6
3
11
lS
13
13
3
lS
28
3

s

4
11
4
23
10
H
3
12
1
10
13
8
11
3
2
1
3
7
27
4
3
1
1
7
3
19
lS
9
4

s

lS
34
1
2

8
16
4
27
20
H
1
2
16
20
33
12
2
10
12
29

8
20
6
33
18
12
4
2
12
16
36
H
4
18
10
30
4

8
6
5
6
17
11
27
6

7

s

-

8
2
2
6
4
26
8
11
7
8

3
5
4
25
10
28
4

-

6

s

1
7
4
25

10
10
10
5 ·

G.L.
Per Capira

Members
Conuib.

Endow.
Conuib.

489.SO
37S.50
41Sl.SO
843.00
128S.2S
1649.2S
1734.50
S60.2S
1711.00
S32.7S
llH.50
111S.7S
1260.00
l 107.2S
800.50
379.7S
478.75
633.7S
923.7S
1470.50
1132.2S
S4S.7S
28S.75
2466.50
1660.2S
S77.75
2100.50
2612.7S
1400.00
118S.7S
1109.50
2067.25
2368.00
394.75
626.25

140.00
93S.OO
16S.OO
840.00

lSS.00
330.00
3S.OO
3S.OO
28S.OO
lOS.00
47S.OO
HS.00
480.00
310.00
lOS.00
71S.OO
1210.00
140.00
175.00

173.00
232.00
3094.24
S49.50
832.00
1647.98
1077.00
372.00
1089.50
161.00
739.89
S63.90
1487.lS
833.88
1016.50
83.00
302.2S
H9.50
336.50
883.lS
707.00
88.00
199.00
3103.86
24S4.23
3S8.00
1666.64
1628.12
2090.88
S91.SO
2036.76
2378.53
1792.H
362.00
666•.fO

330.00
72S.OO
280.00
122S.OO
89S.OO
S60.00
17S.OO
140.00
715.00
620.00
1030.00
410.00
lOS.00
S80.00
470.00
1430.00
29S.OO
210.00
315.00
210.00
175.00
710.00
495.00
1170.00
400.00

722.50
1042.50
333.00
2270.94
3135.18
1672.16
405.00
24S.00
870.53
1123.00
1822.76
6406.00
302.00
2296.50
1H7.25
2216.59
2903.10
1123.50
1186.67
307.53
1184.50
4515.96
1233.00
829.67
1566.63

130.00
3S.OO
24S.OO
200.00
lOS.00
1175.00
390.00
30S.OO
210.00
190.00

666.00
67.00
436.50
609.00
9S.50
2182.73
1888.23
1978.45
1533.23
826.00

979.50
1622.50
463.2S
1708.50
3916.75
2564.00
621.00
391.50
1324.2S
1S18.7S
248S.7S
1655.50
480.2S
2S27.2S
1639.50
3129.2S
3123.00
1597.2S
1032.00
562.00
H38.50
4019.75
H66.25
1166.00
2070.75
305.50
852.2S
S18.2S
572.2S
1938.7S
S24.50
3487.00
1999.7S
1969.2S
1690.2S
124S.50

-

S20.00
740.00
138.00
66S.OO
3S.OO
SOS.00
HS.00
36S.OO
36S.OO
28S.OO
70.00
17S.OO
245.00
830.00

-

~

"'.f

0

-

..ci.

~

No.

Members

276 le Progres de l'Oceanie....371
'277 Gardena
372
278 West Los Angeles _ ......373
____.374
279 Jewel
280 Richmond ------·--··.375
281 Francis Drake -·-··-·-····376
·282 Artesia _______ _J77

702
508
488
199
450
447
248
385
245
334
531
600
149
523
293
399
703
686
147
119
774
489
527
424
450
1000
433
671
678
.243
894
278

Lodae

283 Mizpah - - - - - - - -...378
'284 Fillmore -··-----.379
285 Huntington Beach ····-····380
381
286 Oceanside
'287 Highland Park --------.382
383
288 Oros!
289 El Centro ______.38-f
38S
290 Dinuba - · · ·
387
291 Coalinga - 292 Parnassus --····------·.388
293 Palos Verdes --·-····-...389
294 Imperial -···················..390
295 East Belt --····-······-391
296 West Lake -·····-······-···-.392
297 Balder -·--··-···-·····..393
298 University ______-39-f
299 Turlock -----·-····-···---395
.-396
300 Apollo -·301 Rising Light ····---------'B7
302 Fraternity
399
303 Burlingame _ _ _ _ _400
401
304 Bay View
305 Brawley --------402
306 Verba Buena _____403
40t
307 Glendora
308 Moneta _ _ _ _ _ _405
406
309 Burbank
S\O La Mesa
--'m

577
848
648

Owler

hi!Kd
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910

c;:_ee
175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100

75
75
100
65
125

75
100
100
125
125
50
100
100
100

~.

Fees
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

5.00
-

25.00
1.00

-

-

10.00

-

-

5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00

75
75

-

100
100
100

-

75
75
100
110
105
125

1.00

5.00

-

5.00
25.00
25.00

-S.00

125

3.00

Dues

15
16
17
12
12
18
15
12
15
15
15
15
20
18
12
15
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
15
16
15
15
18
14

Iaic.
16
21
10

......
19
22
10

.,

5
8
9
8
2
1
9
17
10
1
6
6
6
11
16
1

5
7
17

5
!0
11
8
9
11
13

5

5

18
12
12
18
12

14
18
2
22

15
15
18
18
18
18
15
18
15
20
15
12
lS
IS
15
15
12
18
16
15
16
15
15
16
15
18
15
15
12
20
15
15
15
16
15

8
15
4
3
1
1
12
2
20
6
10
3
17

H

6
11
9
3
2
10
19
13
1
12

7
8
10
18
1
6
9
12
6
10
10
13
9
11
16
3
10
22

Jlailed

Pu Capita

G.L

Members
C-uib.

&dow.
C.Onuib.

18
24
10
8

2321.50
1679.00
1603.00
657.00
1460.75
1457.50
823.25
1245.00
804.25
1095.00
1769.50
1961.25
479.75
1711.25
1313.50
942.00
2283.25
2252.50
474.25
390.25
2489.50
1620.75
1672.25
1372.25
1452.50
3230.75
1432.00
2159.75
2238.00
796.25
2920.00
969.50
1848.25
2775.00
2133.00

645.00
760.00
385.00
200.00
280.00
340.00
305.00
70.00
35.00
315.00
770.00
375.00
35.00
210.00
210.00
210.00
460.00
735.00
35.00
200.00
245.00
595.00
175.00
375.00
435.00
305.00
315.00
460.00
505.00
200.00
490.00
655.00
95.00
845.00
565.00

1464.50
1438.51
1754.36
401.00
729.50
969.51
580.85
2037.39
490.00
442.79
1345.41
1303.31
343.50
1130.58
719.00
1031.35
1730.75
1636.00
303.00
242.00
2087.83
1976.25
1393.68
867.00
989.25
3826.46
959.20
1755.88
558.60
828.11
2110.50
676.00
1706.14
1809.62
1436.46

689.75
1366.00
910.25
519.25
469.50
958.25
1365.50
710.75
1841.00
1381.75
941.00
475.00
2546.00
1666.00
l163.50
739.50
520.75
1537.00
748.00
561.50
1153.50
345.50
1693.75
378.00
' 649.50
1374.50
629.50
1879.00

280.00
525.00
140.00
105.00
35.00
35.00
520.00
70.00
725.00
210.00
350.00
105.00
595.00
270.00
315.00
70.00
235.00
165.00
690.00
165.00
400.00

506.34
1136.65
824.50
233.00
308.00
875.00
1056.11
627.00
190S.66
911.24
S82.30
3S8.50
2614.73
1765.22
313.02
S84.00
458.29
893.44
376.00
366.50
277.00
294.00
1193.20
184.00
664.00
1421.29
398.25
2020.73
37.00
342.65
949.00
3142.31
627.2S
360.00
3172.72

7
14
10

5
5
10
24

11

-

13

7
5
10
15
1
7
10
9

7
10
8
15
10
9
12

5
10
26

5

5

20
11

16
15

11
14
3
3
4
2
10

11
11
3
3
3
3

.
~

N

•
-311 Sierra Madre
..408
312 Honolulu - - - - · · · 4 0 9
313 Charter Rock _ _ _ _ .410
______411
314 Perris
315 Calexico ---··----412
316 Arlington -···-----414
317 Silver Trowel ..
.415
318 Lindsay ---·--··-416
319 Clovis ---··----417
320 Elysian
418
~21 Upland --·------419
~22 Kerman - - - - - - 4 2 0
323 lngleW'OOd -··--·----421
324 Eagle Rocle ---···-422
________423
325 York
__424
326 Exeter
327 Holtville -·--··-····---42S
328 Midway --·-····-·---426
329 Chino Valley ·--····-···427
330 San Dimas --··----428
331 Pittsburg --··--···429
332 McCloud ·_ -··----430
____431
333 Alpha
334 Hammonton -···· · - ··---ID
335 Maricopa
Ut
336 Fairmount --···---43S
337 Claremont - - - - - -...436
338 Lancaster -·····---·········--437
339 Tyrian ---····-··439
;140 Standard -----·-···---440
341 Coronado -····--·-··--ffl
342 Blackmer ---··-·---ff2
343 Schofleld ___________ff3
344 Carpinteria ______444
345 Wilshire _ _ _ _ _ffS

205
413
283
157
143
309
423
218
S67
431
282
144
774
SIS

35S
228
1S9
476
219
173
3SO
107
521
110
202
428
182

S57
222
349
407
1193
311
133
499

1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914

75

-

175

10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00

75
50
50
100
125
50
80
150

75
75
125
100
100
50

75
50
65
55
75
50

75

so

50
100

75

-

10.00

-

50.00
3.00

-

25.00

1.00

-

-

-

llS

-

7S
7S

-

100
150
140
50
125

S.00

-

25.00

7
9
2
6
4
19
4
9

--

11

5

s

20
4
10
2
17
12
8

20
10
11
2
16
9
9
2
6

l•

5
5
15
3
10

-5

7
12
2
10
1
9
10
2
6
13
25
3

6
10
2
5
11
27
9

14
20
4

7

7

10
13
15

8
14
8

6
8

5

s

9

10

7
2

5

5
7
17

7

727.75
1146.75
1341.25
3862.75
1027.75
43S.25
1003.25

-

235.00
375.00
70.00
175.00
460.00
1030.00
340.00
245.00
375.00
530.00
575.00
270.00
280.00

.
~

Lodge .

No.

346 La Puente ---····-·······+t6
347 Torrance -········--·-·········+t7
348 Mount Dlablo ······-··········+t8
349 Park ~--··-·······----449
350 Van Nuys ·····-···-············450
l51 Montebello --···-···-····451
352 San Pasqual ····-··············452
353 Crocker ··-········-············-··454
354 Golden West ....................455
l55 Ramona ···········-···············457
356 Henry S. Orme..................458
357 Riverbank ........................459
358 Mount Oso ···-·················460
359 Argonaut ···········-·············461
l60 Paul Revere .....................:462
l61 Morgan Hill ......................463
362 Alta Vista ........................464
l63 Center ······-······-·····-········465
l64 Libertas ............................466
l65 Culver City ......................467
l66 Rockridge ..........................468
l67 Yorba Linda ....................469
l68 Lincoln ..............................470
l69 Delta ····························-····471
370 Maui ··················-·······-···4n
371 Blythe ···········-··············-··473
'372 Victory ···············-········-···474
373 America ·-··-···················-i75
374 Coachella ···-·-···········-·····476
375 Temblor ·····················-·····477
l76 Thousand Oaks ······-·······-478
377 Golden Rule ····-···-··········-479
378 Fellowship ···-··-···-···---480
379 Mt. Davidson ·············-····-481

>--

Qianer

Degree

blued

A&il.

Meml1en

Fees

Fees

Dues

lnit.

Pmed

I.ailed

235
584
456
420
1146
722
586
629
547
549
601
152
355
380
613
164
248
548
725
423
439
187
338
505
203
173
247
451
246
148
516

1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

75

1.00

12
15
16
15
15
16
15
12
12
18
15
15
18
18
12
15
18
15
15
15
18
15
18
15
16
15
18
18
15
15
18
12
15
21

20
22
21
1
28
18
15
9
9
5
12
1
3
3
10
8

18
25
21
3
32
16
16
9
4
11
10
1

6
24
16
3
28
18
14
10
5
24
8
2

7

7

2
9
6
9
11
18
15
5
1

2
10
5
11
8
16
18
4
2

705
293
370

110

75

-

100
125
100
115

10.00
10.00
10.00

75
75

10.00
10.00
12.00

100
125

75
80
115
100

75
75
80
100
100
115
50
100
100
50

75
100
115

75
50

75
75
75
100

-

-

-

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

10.00

-

-

-

5.00
25.00

-

5.00

1.00
10.00

7
16
18
22
4
4
8
l4
1
10
2
5

7
3
4
12
3
2

7

7

16
1

13

7
5
4
5
4

-

9
5
6

5
2

s

s

14
2
1

17
1
1

6
14
4
2
19
9
6
4
6
11
2
8
8
8
9
5
21
3
6
6

8
17
4
3
19
6
5
4
5
12
2
8
9

G.L.
Per Capi1a

Members

Conuib.

Endow.
Conuib.

807.75
1949.50
1517.25
1349.25
3708.50
2366.00
1920.25
2046.25
1773.00
1775.50
1983.25
481.75
1167.50
1229.00
1988.75
545.50
833.00
1799.75
2395.25
1410.25
1397.50
608.25
1094.50
1674.50
661.75
581.75
798.50
1461.25
806.75
473.75
1652.00
2334.25
955.00
1196.75

750.00
820.00
760.00
60.00
1125.00
690.00
625.00
340.00
340.00
275.00
445.00
60.00
105.00
105.00
450.00
280.00
245.00
585.00
655.00
770.00
140.00
225.00
330.00
490.00
60.00
350.00
70.00
175.00
270.00
105.00
165.00
520.00
155.00
95.00

369.00
1213.18
1947.52
916.50
3722.32
1727.56
2394.96
1626.00
1823.50
1847.24
2171.50
203.32
712.00
870.59
1984.33
269.50
2005.50
1253.50
1512.75
1957.83
753.00
417.75
1030.80
1135.69
851.00
381.25
348.05
1450.43
746.25
460.00
1339.50
1978.50
653.50
1165.50

1140.25
2632.75
800.50
587.50
1858.75
1303.25
563.00
1084.50
473.00
1404.25
1052.25
480.25
2164.50
1454.00
1747.00
626.00
2139.50
707.50
878.50
1982.00
1092.25
1838.50
1894.00
3079.00
1667.75
335.00
1099.00
795.75
1447.75
1714.25
1781.50
1120.75
1517.25
1027.25
700.50
1098.75
1248.00

175.00
705.00
210.00
140.00
620.00
385.00
210.00
140.00
245.00
480.00
200.00
210.00
415.00
365.00
280.00
235.00
455.00
210.00
175.00
140.00
315.00
600.00
735.00
725.00
620.00
140.00
280.00
315.00
1320.00
525.00
505.00
280.00
70.00
175.00
175.00
120.00
315.00

1009.58
2652.46
512.51
222.00
724.08
882.20
244.50
269.00
245.50
648.58
1060.31
491.66
1348.62
880.00
1565.87
355.50
1468.25
187.74
634.00
2275.35
881.00
1795.40
1233.81
3428.05
1116.47
222.50
863.03
476.00
417.00
1239.07
1873.04
431.00
1411.32
995.38
448.00
399.00
946.89

~

'I
~

-

380 Clarence F. Smith............482
381 Bell ·····················-·············483
382 Albert Pike .•..•......•..........484
383 Chowchilla ........................485
384 Caledonia ·····-···················486
385 Vallejo ..............................487
386 Patterson •.........................488
387 East Bay ···-··········-·········489
388 Corcoran ···········-··--·······490
389 Wcxxlstock ......................491
390 Garvanza ..........................492
391 Atascadero ···················---493
392 Acorn ·······················-·······494
393 Lebanon --···--·-'-··-···495
394 Fremont --·······················-497
395 Stockton -·····················-··498
396 Capital City ······-······-·····499
397 RooseveJ.t ···-·····-············500
398 Westwood ·····--···-······.501
399 Harbor ·····--···-··--··-·····502
400 Point ··-·-···-····--··-··-····.503
401 Seaside ··-···-·····-·············.504
402 Silver Cord ·-·-····-·····.505
403 Mount Olive ···-··············.506
404 El Segundo ····-····-·-··-.507
405 Joppa ···-··-···-········--·SOS
406 Benjamin Franklin ..........509
407 Cupertino ···--······-········.510
408 Sunnyvale -·-··-···············511
409 Palms ··----··--·······.512
410 Cahuenga ·-······················.513
411 Argonne ·····-····················.514
412 Vermont Square ····-·······.515
413 Taft ·······--···-····-······-····.516
414 Mount Vernon ........•.........517
415 La Jolla ·························-··.518
416 Eudid ··········-··--·-··-----519

350
812
244
179
560
394
169
334
140
433
325
146
660
444
532
192
648
214
267
606
331
561
568
945
502
101

337
2l6
423
523
555
341
473
313
211
335
386

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922

75
100
100

75
100

-

-

16.00

-

75
75
75
75
75
75
75

10.00
5.00
10.00

80
100
100
80
100
100
85

10.00

1.00

-

10.00

-

10.00
15.00
10.00

75
75

-

125

-

75

1.00
25.00

125
100
50
100

-

5.00

-

75

-

115
125
100
100
100
50
80
115
100

10.00

-

5.00
5.00
15.00

10.00

-

20
15
18
12
18
12
18
15
15
16
15
16
15
18
16
18
15
15
12
15
15
18
15
16
15
15
18
15
18
18
15
15
15
16
18
15
18

5
18
6
4
17
11
6
4

7
13
5
6
9
9
8
6
13
6
5
4
9
15
16
20
17
4
8
9
34
15
13
8
2
5
5
2
9

7
14
4
19
3
3
9

7

7

13
16
16
15
2

10
16
14
14
4
5
12
18
9
10
5
3
2

7
11
21
10
10
6
1
3
6
3
10

7
5

7

~

'I
Vl

Cbuur

Degree

Issued

p-

100

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

215
80
100
175
100
100
100
100
125
150
80
75
70
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
100
50
80
55

489
440
348
377
402
856
318
409
1005
351
240
447
431
359
318
235
367
81
615
205
533
426
519
645
122
423
312
347
301
370
401
416
4.37
117
353
167

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

100
100
125
100
90
75
100
100
100
100
125
110

No.

Members

417 Ionic ·······-···-·····-··-·········520
418 Piedmont ·-······---·········521
419 Sunrise ··-·--············-..522
420 Bellflower ····-··-·······-·····--523
421 Catalina Island ................524
422 George W ashlngton ···-··-525
423 Bay City --···-·-··········.526
424 Covenant ···-··-···-"··········-527
425 Beverly Hills ···-'··-··········528
426 Loyalty ······-··············-···529
427 Sun Garden ···-····-······-··.530
428 Alexandria ·······-··-··-·······531
429 Smyrna ··-··-··-··-······-·····532
430 Azure ···-··-······-··············.533
431 Forest Hill ····-----······534
432 Alexander Hamilton ........535
433 Seal Rock ·······-················.536
434 Utopia -·--·--·-···················537
435 Asrot ··------················--.538
436 Belvedere ···-·-··············--539
437 Queen Beach ···-··············-540
438 Henry Morse Stephens....541
439 North Hollywood ...........542
440 Signal ··-··········--·-·-·······.543
H 1 Glendale ···-··············-·······544
442 Jonathan ............................545
443 San Gabriel ·-····-······-·····546
H4 Arcadia ·······-····················-547
445 Triangle -·-······-··········---.548
H6 Justice ···-·········-··-········--549
447 Seeport ······--····-······---550
448 Lakeshore ···········-······-····551
449 Semper Virens ·······-----552
450 Educator -------554

1155
238
308
644
145
437
427
268
574
647
SH
184
196
366
199
298
195
658
352
199
188
321
1069
552
809
199
582
603
348
400
223
265
343
392

Loclse

451 White Pine _________ ..s;s

452 Fairfax ···-··············-···-556
453 H~ ··-···--·-···-·····557
454 Point Firmin ···············--·~558
455 Craftsmen ···-··········-········.559
456 Plymouth ···········-·············560
457 East San Diego................561
458 Pyramid ···--········-··········.562
459 South Park ··-···············--563
460 Foothill ··-···--·-·-····-··---.564
461 West Adams -·······-·······565
462 James A. GarHeld.............566
463 Searchlight ·········-············.567
464 Park Boulevard ...............568
465 Chateau Tihierry ·········-···569
466 Military Service ·······-····.570
467 Francis K. Shattcck..........571
468 James Madison ···-·········.572
469 Hillcrest -···-······--···-···573
470 S. W. Hackett..·-····-·····-.574
471 Fort Crook ········-···········-.575
472 El Cajon Valley...- ......_.576
473 Sunnyside - -............577
474 Progressive -·-······-··-····.578
475 Warren G. Harding ..........579
476 Santa Maria ·········-··----580
477 Secwity ········-··-·····---581
478 Rialto ·····-·····-···-····--.582
479 Wasco ···-····-···-··········--583
480 Harding ···-····················--.584
481 Manchester ·····-········---585
482 Garden Grove ............... _.586
483 Va!iley Forge ·····-·········--.587
484 El Sereno ···········-··-·····--.588
485 Kauai ···-·····----589
486 Compass ···-··--·---······--.590
487 Escalon ···-············---·····--.591

-

roo

100
100
75
100
75
130
100
100
125
100
125
80
100
115
80
115
125
120
100
125
75
115
50

Ami.
Fees

25.00
5.00

10.00

-

10.00

-

20.00
5.00

-

10.00
5.00
10.00

-

-

5.00
5.00

-

-5.00

25.00

--

10.00
10.00
5.00

-

5.00
2.00

-

-5.00

-

12.00

5.00
75.00
-

10.00
10.00
5.00

-

5.00

20.00

10.00
10.00

-

-5.00

-5.00
20.00
1.00

-

-

10.00

-

Passed

PerCapica

Members

hUt.

hiscd

G.L

Dues

Conuib.

Endow.
Coouib.

18
18
15
15
15
15
18
18
15
18
15
18
15
15
18
20
18
16
15
15
15
16
20
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
18
15

14
6
6
18
1
8
11
5
10
22
8
8
12
22
4
9
2
17
7
8
5
5
25
15
16
6
14
15
7
7
4
8
13
8

37
7
8
21
1
6
7
5
5
25
12
4
10
23
3
9

47
4
7
19
1
6
9
4
5
33
11
6
10
19
3
7

14
7
7
2
4
25
7
12
5
18
15
9
4
3
5
11
8

9
5
7
3
4
24
14
7
5
16
26
15
6
4
5
8
11

3851.75
780.75
1012.25
2138.00
471.00
1424.00
1408.25
872.00
1872.50
2163.25
1792.50
612.75
665.75
1243.75
656.75
977.25
635.75
2123.25
1159.75
662.25
601.50
1040.00
3528.75
1823.50
2648.00
656.25
1926.50
2012.50
1152.25
1300.75
735.75
866.25
1140.25
1301.00

12

l

2

-

321.50

665.00
235.00
235.00
680.00
35.00
305.00
385.00
200.00
450.00
795.00
280.00
280.00
420.00
845.00
140.00
340.00
70.00
595.00
270.00
280.00
175.00
175.00
960.00
625.00
635.00
210.00
540.00
650.00
270.00
245.00
140.00
280.00
480.00
280.00
60.00

2432.00
977.00
980.88
1629.51
454.37
1069.21
919.25
557.76
1437.89
2040.19
1028.00
428.00
200.00
1421.31
581.50
122.32
533.50
2314.88
894.90
431.40
529.75
876.00
3647.13
1224.42
2480.09
402.25
2002.39
1850.61
1179.80
932.50
468.50
562.80
781.00
555.86
205.00

18
16
12
16
15
12
16
15
16
15
18
16
15
16
18
15
15
20
15
15
15
15
15
12
15
18
15
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15

15
17
7
5
5
35
14
6
22
4
4
7
7
9
4
2
6
3
8
3
23
6
7
16
4
12
12
11
22
4
21

13
17
6
4
4
34
9
5
21
6
2
7
6
8
4
2
3
3
8
4
28
6
10
16
2
12
12
8
18
5
22
9
12
11
12
3

11
21
6
7
3
29
10
4
23
8
2
8
5
8
9
2
6
3
10
5
28
9
10
20
3
11
11
7
9
7
17
8
7
8
13
4

1618.50
1455.75
1140.25
1212.00
1315.25
2850.75
1056.75
1318.25
3309.50
1126.25
788.00
1458.50
1399.25
1188.50
1037.50
769.75
1204.50
272.25
2008.50
668.50
1801.50
1382.75
1694.25
2141.75
399.00
1370.75
1049.00
1153.75
1020.75
1215.25
1347.00
1353.00
1421.75
409.25
1178.50
553.75

525.00
595.00
245.00
175.00
175.00
1225.00
490.00
210.00
820.00
225.00
140.00
295.00
280.00
315.00
140.00
70.00
210.00
105.00
390.00
105.00
1000.00
210.00
245.00
610.00
190.00
420.00
445.00
410.00
820.00
140.00
820.00
350.00
525.00
350.00
560.00
165.00

996.50
1003.71
1149.38
788.90
837.50
1730.58
636.61
1251.73
2025.29
995.08
1328.00
862.65
1000.00
401.25
636.00
360.75
825.00
179.90
1936.92
446.00
1138.29
1139.73
1508.27
1625.24
385.00
934.48
681.97
372.00
656.01
763.93
949.50
1168.15
1377.56
568.00
785.75
85.50

-

-

...

~

0\

-

10

15
10
16
4

...
-.a
-.a

Lodge

No.

Memben

488 Tujunga ·-·- ··-····-··········592
489 All States ···--·········-·······593
490 Service ···-······----··-··.59-f
491 Alexander Graham Bell..595
492 Guardian ···--·············-···596
493 Pearl Harbor ···-············-598
494 Carmelita ..........................599
495 Lynwood ···-·····················600
496 Grizzly ···-··········-·············601
497 Melrose ..............................602
498 Dimond ··-········-············603
499 Jubilee -·-----···- ····-·······60+
500 Glassell Park ·····-····-······605
501 Sojourner ···-···-··-·······-··607
502 Granada ··········-···············608
503 Provident ..........................609
504 Elmhurst ····-·········-·········610
505 Canoga ···-····-···················611
506 Temple City ....................612
507 Three Pillars ....................613
508 Larchmont ........................614
509 Hemet ·····-········-··········-···615
510 R. E. Dolley ......................616
511 Big Bear ······-·-····-··-····617
512 Southland ··-- - · · -··- --618
513 Neptune ····- ··---···--·--619
514 Point Loma ·········- ···········620
515 The Gardens ···-·-············621
516 Atwater ···-······················.622
517 Menorah ·····---········-··-·623
518 Fortitude ···············-·········624
519 Angeles Mesa ···········-·····625
520 Chula Vista ·········-···-····626
521 Lamanda Park -·--···--···627
522 Truth ---------------628

387
544
932
279
1001
613
377
567
127
253
283
421

523 Fairview .• .. .. .. ...... .. ... .. .. .. 629
524 Ingleside -········- ··············630
525 Benevolence ···-······-···-····631 ·
526 Normal Heights ................632
527 Poinsettia ···········-·············633
528 Victorville ........................634
529 Riverside ..........................635
530 John Marshall ·····-···········636
531 Palisades ·····················-···637
532 Indian Rock ·········-···········638
533 Composite ·······-·-···········639
534 Veritas ···-····- - - ·- ·-·640
535 James A. Foshay ·······-···641
536 La Cumbre ···-·····-·········-642
537 Alta Loma ·····-····-··········.643
538 Lomita ············-·············-·644
539 A. F. E . lrwin..................645
540 Metropolitan ....................646
541 Hawthorne ·····················-·647
542 Damascus ···-·····················648
543 Florence ···-············-·········649
544 La Brea ···-············-·········650
545 Memo Park ......................651
546 Cresc:enta Valley ···--·····652
547 Fontana ········-·-····-·········653
548 Jordan -··························- ·654
549 Monte Vista ···-····-·········655
550 Citro! ····---·-·-···-····-656
551 John D. Spreckels.........- ...657
552 Livingston ···········-····-····658
553 La Habra ····-··················659
554 Baldwin Park -·········-·····660
555 Malta ·····--·-·····-··-·····--661
556 Henry Knox ·- ·-········-···662
557 Ojai --···-·····-··-········-663
558 Kaweah ·····-·-- ···-····-·····665

307
218
265
813
758
274
616
294
449
218
653
150
227
344
409 .
384
268
179 .
594
719
432
273
338
605

409
312
835
500
287
429
572
456
408
237
250
166
368
319
733
532
378
1110
211
728
675
301
240

406
433
853

254
679
225

255
322
265
426
171
139

Aflil.

Oiatter
Issued

Degree

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1924

125
100
100
75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100
75
75
100
100
100
100
135
100
100
100
90
100
75
100
100
125
100
75
175
75
125
125
75

115

10.00

1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928

100
90
100
105
100
74

3.00

Pees

75
100
100

75
125
100

roo
75

100
125
125
100
100

75
125
100
125
125
125
100
125
90
115
90
125

65
75

G.L.
Per Capita

Members
Cootrib.

Eodow.
Cootrib.

14
14
26
6
18
20
4
17
1
5
4
14
9
15
17
10
9
24
21
6
8
5
5
2
11
13
25
10
9
40
2
21
31
12
8

1287.50
1765.50
3061.25
919.00
3274.25
2016.00
1239.75
1875.50
396.25
830.75
915.75
1399.00
1331.75
1041.00
2742.50
1654.25
957.75
1448.75
1912.75
1494.75
1338.25
779.25
813.50
550.50
1227.75
1056.50
2H0.50
1726.00
1243.75
3707.50
685.00
2394.25
2267.75

340.00
490.00
730.00
280.00
865.00
690.00
420.00
735.00
35.00
210.00
70.00
560.00
210.00
400.00
495.00
585.00
315.00
740.00
585.00
505.00
305.00
455.00
140.00
210.00
480.00
410.00
730.00
515.00
280.00
1650.00
140.00
575.00
1045.00
260.00
175.00

778.05
1423.42
2462.72
1735.11
3006.77
1528.00
1532.36
2146.76
268.50
552.21
639.59
923.54
958.58
756.66
2445.46
1407.43
597.00
1173.38
2211.31
1056.75
1396.00
746.25
788.69
346.50
1065.59
651.50
1634.25
1213.29
1288.37
5751.05
211.00
1503.56
1470.00
687.82
807.06

5

1010.75
711.25
856.50
2677.00
2485.00
921.25
2086.50
968.00
1470.00
713.25
2212.25
493.00

140.00
140.00
140.00
540.00
680.00
420.00
1265.00
140.00
350.00
105.00
1295.00
175.00
140.00
370.00
210.00
140.00
225.00
305.00
680.00
1050.00
280.00
175.00
560.00
585.00
480.00
315.00
960.00
305.00
695.00
140.00
705.00
770.00
385.00
210.00
265.00
105.00

1071.36
486.50

Pees

Dues

Ioit.

Pused

lla.ised

5.00

15
15
16
18
15
15
16
18
12
15
18
15
15
15
15
18
18
16
15
15
15
18
12
20
15
16
15
15
15
16
18
15
15
16
18

9
14
18
8
24
18
12
21
1
6
2
16
6
10
12
16
9
17
16
13
8
13
4
6
12
11
18
14
8
45
4
15
25
6

5

10
15
24
8
18
15
5
24
1
4
3
17
7
15
16
13
7
20
20
10
6
4
5
3
12
12
25
12
8
41
3
15
18
12
5

18
20
18
15
18
18
18
15
15
18
15
18
15
18
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
16
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
15
15
15
15

4
4
4
14
17
12
28
4
10
3
32

4
1
8
20
20
10
33
7
11
3
28

-

5.00

-

15.00

-

10.00

-

5.00
1.00

-

10.00
10.00
15.00

-

10.00
5.00

-

-

5.00

-

10.00

-

-

25.00
5.00

-1.00

-

-

-5.00
-

5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

-

5.00
-

5.00

5.00

-

10.00

25.00
-

-

125

25.00

75
50

-

-

5

5

4
6
6
4

4
6
7
8
6

5
8
18
30
8

5
16
16
13
9
26
8
17
4
18
22
11
6
4
3

5
13
33
8
2
15
14
13
8
26
10
21
8
16
21
7
6
4
3

1
6
17
17
12
30
8
6
2
30
2
6
7
8
12
4
3
14
31
8
1
13
17
16
9
27
8
22

7
12
19
6

5
5
2

1008.25
785.00

745.25
1133.75
1314.50
1259.00
873.00
594.50
1969.00
2375.50
1411.75
892.00
1142.50
1974.25
1342.00
1426.75
2828.50
845.00
2250.50
747.00

874.75
1108.50
882.00
1388.50
565.50
<f59.75

~

~

~

577.04
1841.26
1689.51
456.00
1516.95
655.00
1942.83
410.50
1634.65
325.00
734.38
1340.50
1245.55
1153.66
882.29
712.58
1730.59
1498.39
1112.76
605.26
543.50
1277.53
827.33
918.42
2087.72
469.05
1697.19
472.50
1289.70
847.71
699.99
1894.80
305.67
284.50

~
~

ID

Lodge

No.

559 Reseda .-----···--·....666
560 Meridian --··--···667
561 San Gorgonio ·--····-···-.668
562 John P. Jarman.-----669
563 Greenleaf ------··--·670
564 San Clemente ····-··-·-·671
565 Laguna Beach -·-·---·-·672
566 Far West ··-·-·----673
567 Los Cerritos ····-··-···---674
568 Modesto ···--·-··--·--··fJ75
569 Willow Glen ··--··-·-·-·676
570 Liberal Arts ______...677
571 Altadena ·····- - - - · 6 7 8
572 Canby Cross ·····-·-·---679
573 Carmel -········-·····-··-··-·680
574 Dos Palos ····---·-...681
575 Barstow ---···-·----682
576 Redwood Empire .......•.-.683
577 Trona --··--·--·--··-··684
578 San Marino -·---·--·····685
579 Albany ···--···--··-··-·-···686
580 Vista -·-·-·--····----·687
581 Oildale ·-··-·-··-----·688
582 Pohona --·-··------·689
583 San Carlos ···-···--·690
584 Indian Wells Valley........691
585 Travelers --·-···-·····--···692
586 Palm Springs ---··--·-····693
587 San Antonio --·-··-·-694
588 Meudell ···-···---__695
589 Crossroads --·----696
_..IB7
590 Saint Elmo
591 Wm. D. Stephens ___698
699
592 Bixby Knolls
593 Pondercsa _ _ _ _ _700

Mcmbcn

733
518
261
300
848
144
213
357
515
529
417
402
562
156
260
166
423
121
156
46-t
228
322
270
86
446
415
217
214
266
202
346
242
173
361
364

Chum
Imued

1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949

1949

Degree
Pees

.Allil.
Pees

--

120
100

75
75
100
100

1.00
5.00
25.00

-

75
75

1.00
10.00

10.00

175

75
100
125
115
65

10.00

-

1.00
3.00

75

25.00

100
65
100

10.00
1.00

75
100

75
75

10.00

-5.00

100
50
100
100
125
100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80

10.00
5.00

-10.00
-

10.00

-

Dues

lnit.

Passed

llaised

PerCaplca

Memben
Conuib.

Endow.
Conuib.

18
15
12
15
15
15
18
15
18
15
15
15
15
16
15
18
12
18
15
18
12
12
15
12
18
17
15

38
16
8
8
32
9
5
5
18
9
15
17

46
13
6
12
22
8
2
5
17
13
11
12
8
1
9
5
26
1
4
11
5
5
12
2
12
11
3
3
5
11
13
18
13
22

44
9

2500.50
1705.25
859.50
1008.00
2847.00
492.00
695.75
1171.50
1724.50
1738.00
1392.25
1345.25
1835.25
498.00
870.50
552.50
1434.25
399.25
519.00
1539.75
756.00
1061.25
886.75
282.25
1494.50
1381.50
714.25
697.00
878.00
681.00
1155.00
836.00
584.25
1239.25
1226.00

1565.00
585.00
280.00
280.00
1145.00
340.00
225.00
250.00
755.00
450.00
625.00
820.00
345.00
35.00
445.00
105.00
550.00
140.00
140.00
460.00
165.00
485.00
365.00
35.00
705.00
410.00
70.00
155.00
330.00
340.00
350.00
725.00
400.00
740.00
595.00

1860.96
1104.34
540.11
608.25
1516.59
162.00
424.00
810.75
1581.00
900.50
522.50
1228.10
1931.99

408.25
769.00
1517.75
664.50
701.25
827.00
301.75
1515.75
1185.75
808.50
481.75
711.00
930.25
677.25
792.00
1172.25
676.50
291.25
463.25
356.00
1506.25
546.50
597.00
537.25
719.25
573.00
331.25
788.50
484.00
480.75
610.00
689.00
508.00
633.25
375.75
1238.75

165.00
560.00
685.00
250.00
175.00
315.00
245.00
1300.00
645.00
620.00
235.00
435.00
515.00
480.00
590.00
775.00
330.00
25.00
385.00
35.00
1720.00
355.00
265.00
175.00
340.00
270.00
175.00
830.00
505.00
280.00
350.00
775.00
630.00
'540.00
200.00
1285.00

345.50
702.72
1161.59
472.00
537.00
621.00
396.72
895.38
1133.25
514.42
403.50
956.25
664.71
513.00
669.50
1133.25
529.99
187.00
499.75
266.50
1078.72
331.50
543.00
391.00
587.13
415.00
448.26
694.85
806.07
539.50
633.93
753.50
759.00
725.00
229.00
1137.48

G.L.

20

16
18
15
15
20
16
18

7
1
12
3
15
4
4
11
4
9
9
1
18
11
2
3
8
9
10
20
10
19
17

13

7
13
37

7
3
11
19
13
11
13
10
2
11
5
25
1
4
13
6
4
11
3
15
14
4
2

7
11
14
18
14
25
13

..:..

00

0

573.50
352.00
943.75
295.00
439.00
2247.73
520.00
461.26
569.50
234.00
1102.25
934.46
483.00
497.90
633.13
431.92
952.73
1072.25
1511.51
H:Si.87
772.50

~

594 Santa Ynez Valley.....- .....701
595 Rosemead ·····-·-·····-·······702
596 Westchester -········-····-....703
597 Orinda ·-····--····-····-···70.
598 El Cerrito ·---·--·----105
599 Hunters Point NavaL....706
600 Lake Tahoe --···-·····-·..7C11
601 Seafaring -·····----··-···708
602 Lorenzo -·····-····-··--···700
603 Anacapa. -···-·-·-·-··-····j10
604 Rim of the World...........71'1
605 Los Altos ··--···-···-···7·12
606 Castro Valley ···-····-···-713
607 Blue Lakes ······-·-···--··j14
608 Magnolia Park ···--·········715
609 Behnont Shore ···-···········-716
610 Wayfarer ·-····-·-········-···717
611 San Lorenzo Valley ...- ...718
612 Estero ····-··--·--··-······-719
613 Mineral King --·--···-··720
614 Home ··--······-·-·····-···-···721
615 George E. Tutt..·-····-·······722
616 Acalanes ·····-····-··-··--·····723
617 San R<amon Valley... ____ 724
618 Saint John's -·-·········-·····725
619 Yucaipa ··-····-·-··---···7'26
620 Verdugo Hills ···-······-·--1121
621 Lakewood ______..728
622 Centennial ·····-····--·--·729
623 Polaris _ . -·----1·30
624 Two Rivers ·--·--·····731
625 San Juan · - - - - 7 3 2
626 Golden Empire -·-·-···733
627 Kit Carson -·--··-··....734
628 Oasis of Mara.........- .....735
629 Lemon Grove ········-··-·736

125
225
451
198
209
248
87
435
348
234
143
208
273
197
232
343
199
90
137
109
425
162
180
161
213
174
97
227
141
139
176
192
140
181
111

355

1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954

75
75
125

75
75
100

75
100
100
100

75
iOO
100
100
125
125
100
100

75
75
125

75
75
75
75
75
100
125
125
100
100
100
90
100
90
115

1.00

-

5.00

-

-

1.00
10.00
1.00

-

-

5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00

-

-

1.00

-

10.00
10.00
15.00

-

-

-

10.00

10.00
10.00
10.00

-

10.00

15
16
18
15
15
18
18
16
15
18
15
15
18
18
18
16
15
16
15
20
16
18
15
18
18
15
16
18
18
15
16
15
15
12
15
15

4
16
16
5

5
14
17
9

6
11
19

5

7
7
6
37
19
18
6
11
13
12
12
21
12
1
3
2
49
4
4
4
10
4
5
18
10
10
12
20
17
15
5

10
5
6
30
22
13
5
13
17
12
12
23
13
1
4
2
29
8
4
6
8
3
6
13
6
11
16
25
18
17
5

27

27

9

7
35
17
17
6
11
13
13
14
20
8

-

11
1
47
8
4
4
9

7
5
23
13
8
10
20
18
13
5
31

7

.a..

00

Members

Choner
Issued

Degree

No.

630 Hillsborough ···-··········-···737
631 Arvin ··---·-···-·-········-.738
632 La Canada ----·-·····-·····7'39
633 Opportunity -·-··--····740
634 Tyre -----··----·---741
635 Morningside Park ...- ..- ...742
636 Oakwood ---------··--···-···-·743
637 San Leandro ....................744
638 Peninsula ·····-·········-···-···745
639 Soquel --·········-······---···746
640 Claude H. Morrison ........747
641 Highland -·········-······--·----148
642 Merced ....................... _.....749
643 Mother C.Olony ·······---·····750
644 Hamilton ···-······-·····-·-···751
645 Luther Burbank -··-··----·752
646 Lawndale ·····-···----···-·753
647 San Pablo ····----··-·····754
648 Golden Bowl ....................755
649 Clayton Valley ................756
650 Channel ·········--·······-·····757
651 West Covina -·······-······758
652 El Rancho ·····-····-----759
653 Lakeside .....................- .....760
654 Josiah W. Roller......... _...761
655 Coastside ···············-·········762
656 Arabic ·--······-····-············763
657 Heritage ·--······-····-·········764
658 Dana R. Weller _______765
659 James H. Kew ·····-····-----·766
660 Wm. Rhodes Hervey...-.767
661 Zenith ·---····-···-·····-·768
662 Palmdale -·--·-·---···769
663 Lake Chabot ··-----770
664 Mission Bay _____771

160
113
144
190
191
181
96
161
132
140
113
202
132
145
134
178
187
106
155
231
97
172
190
94
170
94
139
118
121
140
126
201
208
107
167

1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957

100
100
125
115
125
115
150
100
100
80
115
75
90
75
100
75
100
75
100
75
80
115
100
100
100
100
140
125
105
115
125
125
115
100
115

56
1957
665 Avenal ···-····-·····-··--·-·····772
1957
142
666 Tejon --·-··--····----······---·773
97
1957
667 Waikiki ···-···········-·········774
167
1957
668 San Dieguito ·····-······--·····775
1957
149
669 East Whittier ···········-··--776
1957
55
670 Pinnacle -··························777
1957
127
671 La Mirada ·····-··············-·778
672 Five Points _______779
1957
72
1957
106
673 Riviera ····-···-·----···780
1957
103
674 Rolling Hills ······-·--·-···781
1958
96
675 Silverado ···············-·········782
1958
70
676 Mojave ··········-·······--·····--··783
1958
106
677 Leland Stanford ·····-·······784
1958
86
678 Paramount ·······-···············785
1958
81
679 Rio Linda ····················-·.786
1958
680 Westminster .........- .........787
94
1958
81
681 Sierra ----······-····---·--········788
1958
98
682 Oak Plains ·················--·-.789
1958
97
683 Granada Hills ·············-···790
1958
684 Gen. Henry H. Arnold....791
85
1959
66
685 Millbrae ·-··-··---····--······792
1959
65
686 Maya ···-····--···-·793
1959
103
687 Mt. Wilson --·····----·-·-.79.f
1959
101
688 American River ···········-···795
1959
689 Golden Valley ..................796
95
1960
56
690 Tila Pass ···-..·············-··.797
1960
57
691 Ashland ····-······-·-·········798
692 Bay Oaire Vista..............799 ·
1960
49
693 Rio Hondo ................___80()
1960
53
694 Koolau ...- ....- ..................801
1960
43
695 Yucca Valley •.......••....•...802
1961
75
696 The Gabilan ......................803
48
1961
697 Moreno Valley ..............•.80t
42
1961
1961
51
698 Camellia ···--····-···-····-·.BOS
699 Simi Valley ......................806
1961
36
700 Conejo Valley ...- ............8<1l
1961
46
Northern Calif. Research..............
1953
89
Southern Calif. Research. .............
105
1953
67
1958
El Camino Research.....·-···--··Central Calif. Research._______
75
1960
For Membership and Degree totals see page 87.

100
100
175
90
100
75
100
125
125
125
125
.75
100
125
100
100
75
100
125
90
100
125
115
100

Lodge

Pees

75
115
100
80
125
175
90
90
65
100
120
100

-

Alli!.

Pees

Dues

I nit.

Passed

-

18
20
24
15
16
15
18
20
18
15
18
12
15
15
20
15
15
15
15
18
15
18
16
18
12
15
15
18
16
15
15
15
15
18
12

16
12

11
8
5
12
24
10
3
17
11
8
8
10

12
18
15
15
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
15
18
18
15
16
18
15
15
12
18
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15

3
18
18
12
13
2
18
12
6
7
9
6
7
7
16
21
10
13
13
10
4
7
11
20
24
6
16
14
19
17
12
9

-

25.00

-

10.00
50.00
10.00

-

1.00

-

5.00
5.00

-

-

-

10.00
12.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

-

10.00

-

10.00
10.00

-

3.00
10.00
5.00

-

10.00
10.00
6.00
-

10.00
1.00
25.00
10.00
10.00

-

5.00
7.00

-

10.00
10.00
25.00

-

-

15.00

-

10.00
-

18
16
15
18
18
12
12

5
10

7
13
17
11
6
21
16
5
8
10
6
12
11
6
14
13
18
17
13
12
20
4
10
19
9
10
11

10
5
19
19
7

H

5
12

-

7
14

7
7
16
12
15
14
10
15
18
6
8
14
11
10
6
14
4
15
21
10
15

2
8
18
10
13
2
13
7
6
8
8

5
9
8
13
23
10
15
13
11
7
10
11
20
19
11
18
14
13
11
9
7
4

-

-

Raised

Per Capiia

G.L

Members
Conuib.

Endow.
Conuib.

8

551.75
394.25
486.00
653.50
683.25
611.75
326.00
575.25
466.00
477.00
389.25
686.50
448.00
505.00
458.50
604.50
656.75
374.25
551.75
808.75
343.25
597.00
673.50
324.50
577.50
350.50
481.75
411.50
416.25
492.00
425.50
702.25
731.00
377.75
591.75

610.00
420.00
345.00
455.00
680.00
410.00
285.00
785.00
620.00
175.00
380.00
450.00
235.00
470.00
410.00
285.00
515.00
480.00
715.00
695.00
455.00
520.00
725.00
140.00
375.00
665.00
415.00
400.00
385.00
450.00
225.00
765.00
715.00
295.00
i90.00

692.30
323.00
619.76
901.33
609.77
583.75
436.65
352.70
662.00
320.25
231.10
567.00
265.75
703.44
290.50
407.50
656.75
264.50
728.32
582.60
205.50
640.08
220.00
423.42
331.36
196.00
1900.25
387.50
308.00
563.46
683.75
1146.75
618.00
200.50
635.65

190.00
492.00
364.25
572.75
525.25
184.75
457.75
260.00
362.50
353.50
338.00
242.50
370.50
304.50
306.25
366.50
291.00
359.50
354.25
312.25
234.50
238.25
365.75
396.25
369.75
213.00
236.25
200.25
215.25
174.75
271.75
178.00
149.50
12.00

105.00
630.00
655.00
645.00
480.00
70.00
780.00
445.00
245.00
245.00
340.00
210.00
245.00
270.00
595.00
835.00
375.00
580.00
480.00
350.00
140.00
245.00
510.00
725.00
865.00
210.00
635.00
565.00
665.00
645.00
545.00
515.00
600.00
545.00
175.00
350.00

114.00
316.50
422.75
39.00
495.60
122.50
551.18
228.17
1468.10
433.62
370.00
145.00
337.00
154.00
420.75
296.62
434.50
300.50
358.64
186.11
288.36
208.50
379.38
500.75
378.00
197.50
119.00
168.25
119.50
98.00
187.98
222.50
86.00
156.25
72.00
92.00
10.00
243.01

7
6
11
28
9
5
14
10
9
6
10
6
11
5
13
19
8
15
27
5
11
18
9
7
12
10
8
6
13

7
15

IS
13
20

3
11
13
8
15
2
14
7
6
7
9
4
10
10
14
17
11
13
13
15
9
10
9
28
18
14
17
13
11
7
7
6
4

-

-

-

-

-

-

~

00
N

~

00

w

484

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS-Continued
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia.!. Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. :i116, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Homitaa.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never is-

4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
4 Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never

26
28
29
31
34
36
37
39
47
48
49
52

issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
St. John'1bYreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, ec. 8, 1924.
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.

1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
59 Gravel Range, Camptonville, 1855. Consolidated with Forest No. 66 as
Gravel Range No. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
66 Forest, Alleghany, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, September 27, 1955.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, u
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with lone No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never

issued.

74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 · Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, u Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

485

sued.

118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1885.

487

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT WDGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDA TIONS-Contin ued

EXTINCT WDGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDA TIONS-Contin ued

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
152 Josephus, Brush.Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
155 Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163' Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
· Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan; 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
issued.
i75 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced1 Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 . Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise 1 Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
issued.
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
221 Inyo, Independence, 1872. Consolidated with Waucoba No. 413 as Inyo
No. 221, Jan. 10, 1945.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.

Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa N~.
240, April 1. 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec 20
1918,
'
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
'
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,
1911.
290 Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. Name changed to East Gate No. 290, October 12, 1899.
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No 341 Oct 16
1902.
.
•
• •
340 Santa Mariq, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olivet, Coming, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
373 Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
414 Arl~ngton, Los Angeles, 1910. Consolidated with Acacia No. 438 as
Arlington No. 414. Sept. 28, 1959.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
438 Acacia, Los Angeles. Consolidated with Arlington No. 414, September
28, 1959.

486

226

I

488

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINC T WDGES , INCLUD ING CONSO LIDATI ONS-Co ntinued

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.

453
454
456
496
542
553
554
597
611

612
616
628
664

Bethlehe m San Francisco , 1915. Consolid ated with Crocker No. 454 as
Crocker No. 454, April 1, 1961.
Crocker Daly City, 1915. Consolid ated with Bethlehe m No. 453 as
Crocker' No . .454, April 1, 1961.
Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolid ated with Reading No. 254 Dec. 19,
1925.
Riverdale , Riverdale . Consolid ated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
Lankersh im, North Hollywoo d, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950.
Golden City, San Francisco , 1923. Consolid ated with Educator No. 554
as Educator No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
Educator , San Francisco , 1923. Consolid ated with Golden City No. 553
as Educator No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolid ated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
Owensmo uth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
Workman , Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
1929.
Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolid ated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolid ated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
193'1.

1850

489

Since Its Organiza tion, April 18, A. L. 5850
1856

Jonethen D. S'eve111on .. G. M.
C.llfomla No. I
loni JH. I, llOO
Died Feb. 14, llM

John A. Tutt....____ D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner.________$. '.;. W.
Sashel Wood1 ____J, 6. W.
Levi StowelL- --·--··-··6• T.
John H. 61hon..________ 6. S.

1851
John A. Tutt.....________ 6. M.
Tehema No. I
lorn Feb.4... 1111
Died May IY, ltoO

Benj. D. Hyam .......... D. G . M.
E. F. F. Ellis................S. G. W.
Benj. S. Old1.........- ...J . G. W.
Townsend A. Thomas ...... 6. T.
Levi Stowell......... _ ..... _ ..6. S.

1863

William H. Howard ...... 6. M. William C.
Belc:her______ 6. M.
John A. Raymond .... D. 6. M.
Lemuel Lyo11.•.. ______$. 6. W. Gil. B. Cl•iborne.._..D. 6. M.
Loul1 Cohn..____ $, G. W.
Peter W. Randle ......J. 6. W.
Addison Martin ...______ 6. T. Wm. A. D•vies_______ .J. 6. W.
Jemes Latdley.. ______ 6. T.
Alex G. Abell... .•·-·-···-6. S. Alex G. Abell_____&. S.

1857

Nathenlel 6. Curth.... -6. M.
We1hln9ton No. 20
lorn Feb. I, 1121
Died July Ii, 1"7

Charles Marsh ............ D. G. M.
Aaron D. Park.....- ....5. G. W .
John B. Pop•·······-·····J. G. W.
Addison Martin ____ 6. T.
Alex G. Abell ____ 6. S.

1884
William C. Belc:her.__..... 6. M.
Gil. B. Clelborne...... D. 6. M.
Wm. A. Devies...- .....5. G. W.
hHc: Tltu1..............J. G.
James Latdley....________ 6. T.
Alex G. Abell ..---·-----6 · S

s.

w.

1858

1865
Nethaniel G. Curtls......6. M.
P. W . Shepheard ...... D. 6. M. Gilbert B. Claiborne......6. M.
Sen Joaquin No. If
Wm. Mc:Cormic:L...S. G. W.
1852
Born 1121
Jas. W. Bic:knell........J. 6 . W.
Died Dec. I, 1908
Benjamin D. Hyam ...- ...6. M.
Addison Martin ·--··---6• T. Wm. A. Davlea.
lenlc:le No. I
......... D. G. M.
Alex G. Abell... ..____ 6. S.
lorn March I, 1111
Isaac: S. Tltua...•..........S. G. W.
Died July 12, 119J
Henry H. Hartley ......J. 6. W.
1859
ChaL M. Redc:liff...... D. G. M.
Addison Martln ................6.T. Nathenlel G. Curtia......6. M. James Latdley.._____ 6. T.
J. R. Mc:Connell........J. G. W. P. W. Shepheard..._D. G. M. Alex G. AbelL.·-······-··6· S.
Addison Mertln ......---··6. T. Ebenezer Lane...- ..•..5. 6. W.
Levi Stowell.....-·······-······6 . S. Thos. P. Hewley..- ....J. G. W.
1866
Addison Martin -·--·-·6• T.
Gilbert
B.
Claiborne
...... 6. M.
1853
Alex G. AbelL ..-·-········G. S.
Henry H. Hartley..- .. D. G. M.
Charles M. Radc:llff.A ... 6. M.
1860
Wm. H. Peterson ......$. 6. W.
Tuolumne No. I
Nathaniel 6. Curtls...... 6. M. Thomas Bec:L ............J. 6. W.
lorn Feb. I, 1111
P.
W. Shepheard ___ 6. M. James Laldley..............
Died Dec:. JI, lllt
- ..&. T.
T. A. Thomu ............. D. G. M. Wm. C. 8elc:her........ S. G. W. Alex G. Abetl ...........- ..._6. 5.
Jno. R. Crandall........S. 6. W. Alvina Hayward .. _..J. 6. W.
Ric:hard F. Knott........J. G. W. Addison Martin ·--····-··6• T.
1867
Addison Mertin ..·-·-·····6. T. Alex G. Abell. ____........6. S.
Levi Stowell_......______.6. S.
William A. Devles..........6. M.
1861
Columbla No. 28
Jame1 L Engllsh ............ G. M.
lorn Feb. 5, 1127
1854
Sac:ramento No. 411
Died June 211, 1916
Willlem H. Howard ..___ 6. M.
lorll June !i, lllJ
Henry H. Hertley .... D. 6. M.
Died May n, lllt
Sen Jose No. 10
lorn A119. ~ 1110
Wm. C. Belc:her........D. 6. M. Thomes Bec:l........_...S. G. W.
Died Sept. I•, II"
John W. Harville......S. G. W. Leonides E. Pratt......J. G. W.
Nath. 6. Curtl1...- ... D. 6. M. Caleb
E. Wilc:oxon....J. G. W. James A. Laldley............6. T.
Rec:tor E. Col•.·-·-·S . G. W. James
Laldley...- ..........6. T. Alex G. Abell.. --···-6• S.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J. G. W.
Addison Martln___.. __..6. T. Alex G. Abell.._ .•.......- ..6. S.
1868
Levi Stowell.._. ______.6. S.
1862
William C. Belc:her........ 6. M. Cherles Mar1h ............- .6· M.
1855
Nevada No. IJ
Corlnthla11 No. "
lom Dec:. 12, 1820
lorn Dec. 6 1121
Wtlllem H. Howard ...... 6. M.
Died Sept. I, 1191
Died Aprll
1176
T. A. Thomas..- ....-.D. 6. M. 611. B. Claiborne...... D. 6. M. Theo. 6. Coc:krllL...S. G. W.
Jno. A. Raymond ......$. 6. W. John W. Harvllle...... S. G. W. Leonides E. Pratt
.._.. D. 6. M.
Sem. A. Me1Titt.._....J. G. W. John B. Hewson .._ ...J. G. W. Fredk. F. Beru.. ___J.
G. W.
Addl1on Martl• --6. T. Jam•• uldler
Jeme1
Laldley.
____
c;. T.
&. T.
L.¥1 Stowell
•· S. Alex 6. Abelf _ _ _ _ fi;, S. Alu 6. AW

o.

a,

•.s.

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1878

1869

Leonld111 E. Pratt...____ G. M. John M. Browno.__ ...... G. M. Jonathan D. HlnH...__ 6, M.
San Bueneventur• No, 214
Mountain Shade No. II
Ches. L. Wiggin ____ O. G. M.
Born Jan. I, 1825
lorn Aug. 29, 183J
Wm. S. Wolls............S. G. W.
Died Dec. JO, 188'
Died Oct. 25, 1116
Isaac S. Titus.. _______ O. G. M. Solon W. Crelguo....J. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnin _____ G. M.
T.
G,
_______
..
Loidloy
James
John S. Word _________s. G. W.
Edm. C. Atklnson ..._.s, 6. W.
Richard Dol•--·······-··J• G. W. Alex G. Abol'------········G• S. Hiram N. Rucker_..J. G. W.
.James Loldloy.. _. _ _G, T.
.G. T.
Moses Holler
1877
Alox G. AbalL _ _ _ G, S.
Alox G. Aboll--·-·-··G· S.
John M. Browne ..______ .G. M.
1870
Ches. L Wiggin ___ O. G. M.
1884
Loonrdes E. Preff.·--······G· M. Wm. W. Treylor. ___ s. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus______ O, G. M. Wm. 11. Creno. ___J, G. W. Jonethen D. Hinos._ .... G. M.
Ch111. L Wiggin.-.... G. w. Moses Heller _____G, T. Wiley J. Tinnin........ D. G. M.
Bonj. H. FrHmen. ___J, G. W. Alex G. Abol'--·······-····G. S. Edm. C. Atklnson .._ .S, G. W.
James Leidloy_._____ G. T.
Hiram N. Rucker ___J, G. W.
Moses Holler ________ G, T.
Alox G. AioolL______G. S.
1878
John M. Browno_.......G. M. Alox G. Aboll ...----·-·······G. S.
1871
Leonidas E. Proff.-.....G. t.4. Wm. W. Treylor._..... D. G. M.
1885
Chu. L Wiggin ...- ...0. G. M. Wm. H. Creno----5. G. W.
Robt. C. Brodor..... _.J. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnln ..............G. M.
Bon. H. FrHmen......S. G. W. Moses
Heller _________ G, T.
Trinity No. 71
Goo. C. Porkin1....- ..J. G. W. Alex G. Aball._________ G, S.
Born Oct.7 112t
Jame1 Loldloy----··G . T.
Died Nov.14, 1910
Alox G. Aboll_____ G. S.
Edm. C. Atklnson ...... D. G. M.
1879
Hiram N. Rucker.._..S. G. W.
1872
William W. Treylor........G. M.
Henry H. Knepp ......J. G. W.
Loonldos E. Proff________ G. t.4.
Callfornla No. I
Born March 17, Im
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Bonj. H. FrHmen ...-.D. G. t.4.
Died Jan. 18, 180
Goo. C. Perkins.._ ..$. G. W. Samuel C. Dan1on .... D. G. M. Alex G. Aboll..................G. S.
John M. Browno........J. G. W. Clay W. Teylor.___ s. G. W.
James Laidloy_____________G, T.
1888
John Q. Adema._J, G. W.
Alox G. AbolL ............. _G. S. Moses Heller ________ G, T. Edmund C. Atkinson .... G. M.
Alex G. AbolL.__________ E;, S.
Sacramento No. 40
1873
Born Nov. 17 1837
M.
G.
Died March ii, ltll
..
_
............
Titu1
S.
l1aec
1880
San Joaquin No. It
Hiram N. Rucker...... D. G. M.
lorn Oct. I~ 1127
Samuel C. Denaon........ G. M. Morris M. Estee ........S. G. W.
Died April u, 1192
Union No. 58
Alvah R. Conklin ...... J. G. W.
Goo. C. Porkin1._..... D. G. M.
Born Sept. 2l, llJt
Nathan W Spaulding ....6. T.
Died July 26, 1917
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. W.
Chas. E. MitchelL..J. G. W. Cley W. Taylor........ D. G. M. Alex G. Aboll... ............... G. S.
JamH Laldloy______ G, T. John Q. Adams ....._.S. G. W.
G. W.
1887
Alox G. Aboll .. ---·-····G. S. 0. W. Hollenbec:L.J.
Moses Heller .._ _ _6, T.
Hlrem N. Rucker ··-·-···6. M.
1874
Alex G. Aboll ..---···········G. S.
La &range No. tt
George C. Porkins...- ...6. t.4.
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Orovllle No. IDJ
1881
lorn A ..... ZJ, llJt
Clay W. Teylor.............. G. M. Morris M. Estoo........ D. G. M.
Died Feli. 26, 1'23
Western Star No. 2
Alveh R. Conklln......S. G. W
John M. Browno...- .. D. G. M.
Born Sept. IOI 1844
Wm. Johnston ..........J. G. W.
Wm. B. Parker......- ..$. G. W.
Died May I, 897
Wiley J. Tinnln ..........J. G. W. John Q. Adams ........ D. G, t.4. Nathan W Spaulding _..6. T.
James Leldloy..______ G, T. Jonethen D. Hine1....S. G. W. Alex G. AbelL................G. S.
Alox G. AbolL__________G, S. Tho1. J. Bowors..____J, G. W.
Moses Heller _ _ _ _ G, T.
1888
1875
Alex G. AbolL________....G. S. Morris M. Estee............G. M.
John M. Browne............G. M.
C.llfornla No. I
1882
Naval No. 87
Born Nov. 23, 1834
1131
Born May
Died Oct. 7, 190J
Cley W. Teylor.. ________.G, M.
7, 18'4
Dec. 10,
Died
G. M.
Chas. L Wiggin ...... D. G. M. Jonathan D. Hines .... D. G. M. Alveh R. Conklin._... D.
......$. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ..........S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W. WilliamD.Johnston
BorucL____J, G. W.
J•cob H. NolL.......J. G. W. George Hinds ...____J G. W. Marc.
James Leidloy____________ 6. T. j Moses Heller ______ G, T. Nathan W Spaulding _6. T.
Al..-. G. AbolL________G, S.
Alex G. Aboll ..---······-···6. S. Alox G. Aboll ....----·······-6. S.

o,

s.

491

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1883

1881

Morris t.4. Eatoo_ _G, M.
"Nllllem Johnston __ o, G. M.
ChoL R. Gritman ___$, G. W.
Henry S. Ormo__J, G. W.
Nothen W Spaulding __ G, T.
Alox G. Aboll _ _ _ _ G. S.

1890
Alveh R. Conklin.-.......G. M.
Inyo No. 221
lorn llJS
Died Oct. I, 18'7
William Johnston. ____ O, G. M.
Chas. R. Gritmen. __ s. G. W.
Henry S. Ormo........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ___ G. T.
&oorgo Johnson --------G. S.

1891
Wiiiiam Johnston ...- .....G. M.
Franklin No. 143
lorn June 2, 1825
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Chu R. Gritmen ...... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme --····S. G. W.
Jos. B. Stovens..--...J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ___ G. T.
George Johnson ·-----··G• S.

1892
Charles R. Gritman ____ G, M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Dae. 10, IHI
Died M•y 14, llt4
Henry S. Orme.........O. G. M.
Jes. B. Stoven1..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Proston....- ..J. G. W.
Nethen W Spaulding _6, T.
Georg• Johnson ______ 6, S.

1893
Henry S. Orm•---··-·-··G. M.
So. C.llfornla No. 271
Born March 25, 1137
Died Nov. 2t, 1912
Jes. B. Stoven•-----.D. G. M.
Edw. M. Proston ____s, G. W.
Wm. T. Luces.._____J, G. W.
Edward Colomen............G. T.
George Johnson ______G, S.

1894
James B. Stevena ---······G. t.4.
Yount No.12
Born March 27 1141
Died Dec. 6, tflt
Edw. M. Preston ______o, G. M.
Thomas Flint____ .J, G. W.
Wm. T. Luc111______s, G. W.
Edward Colemon.•_____ G, T.
6oorge Johnson ________E;, S.

1895
Edward M. Proston _ ___ G. M.
Nevada No, 13
Born Mar 4, 1141
Died Api'll 24, ltol
Wm. T. Lucas____ o, 6. M.
Thomes Flint____ s. G. W.
F. M. Angelloffi..___J, G. W.
Edward Coloman ___ G, T.
Gaorgo Johnson ____6, S.

1901

Wiiiiam S. Woll1•._ _ E;, M.
Martlnn No. 41
Born June 24, 18'1
Died Jen. 23, ltlt
0. S. Hondorson__ o. G. t.4.
Ches. W. Nutting _s, G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter __ J, G. W •
Edwerd Coloman.___ G, T.
Georg• Johnson ___6, S.
Wm. H. Edwerda.._____ G, L

1896

1902

William T. Luces·-······-·6• t.4.
Guadalupe No. D7
Born March II, llSO
Died March 21, ltJI
Thomas Flint._______ o, G. M.
F. M. AngallottL_•..S. G. W.
Ch111. L Petton...- •..J. G. W.
Edward Colomon..•___ G, T.
George Johnson ____ 6 S.

Orrin S. Henderson ....-6. M.
Mornln9 Star No. 68
Born June ~L 1163
Died June ll>, lt40
Ches. W. Nutting .... D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter.____ $, G. W.
Motley H. Fllnt...___J, G. W.
Edward Colemon....__ G, T.
George Johnson ___ G, S.
Wm. H. Edwerds ___G. L

1897
Thomas Flint _______6, M.
Texa1 No. 4'
Born Mey It la
Died Nov. 16, lt3'
F. M. AngellottL-.... 0. G. M.
Ch111 L Petton ______ s, G. W.
J111. A. Foshay.________J, G. W.
Edward Colomen.._. ____ G, T.
George Johnson ··-···G• i.

1903

Cherlol W. Nuttlng .._6, t.4.
Evanln9 Star No. rN
Born Oct. J 1112
Died Sept, 20, ltl7
Geo. W. Hunter ____ o, 6. t.4.
Motoly H. Rint.._s. G. W.
Edw. H. HerL__,I, G. W.
Edward Coleman.___6, T.
Georg• Johnson ___6, S.
Wm. H. Edwerds._ _ 6, L

1898

1904

Frank M. Angellottl...... G. M.
Marin No. ltl
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May D, lt32
Ches. L. Petton -·----D· 6. M.
Jes. A. Foshay..___$, G. W.
Wm. S. WollL_______.J, G. W.
Edward Colomen.•_____ 6, T.
George Johnson _____ E;, S.

George W. Huntor_.6, M.
Humboldt No, 1'
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, lt21
Motley H. Flint...- ... 0. G. t.4.
Edw. H. Hert_ _$, G. W.
Geo. t.4. Porino___J, G. W.
Edward Coleman.._ _6, T.
Georg• Johnson ___6, S.
Wm. H. Edward1. ___ G. L

1899
Charles L Petton ____ &, M.
Callfornla No. I
Born 1865
Died Aprll 11, rm
Jes. A. Foshey..- ...... 0. 6. M.
Wm. S. Woll1.. ___ $, G. W.
O. S. Henderson. __J, G. W.
Edward Colomen _____E;, T.
George Johnson ___,6, S.

1900
Jemos A. Foshey. _________E;, M.
So, C.llfornla No. 271
Born Nov. 23, 1156
Died Jen. 14, ltl4
Wm. s. Wolls. ______ o. G. M.
0. S. Henderson __ $, G. W.
Ches. W. Nuttlng ....J. G. W.
Edward Coloman.. ___ G, T.
George Johnson ____ 6, S.
Wm. H. Edwarda ________ E;, L

1905

Motley H. Flint.......- 6 . t.4.
East &•te No. 2'0
lorn Feb. It, 1161
Died July 14, ltJO
Edward H. Hert.._.D, G. M.
Geo. M. Porlno___$, 6. W.
Reuben H. UoycL_.J, G. W.
Edward Colomon.._ _ 6, T.
George Johnson ___6, S.
Wm. H. Edwerd1.•___ 6, L

1908

Edward H. Hart _____ 6, M.
Live Oat No. 61
lorn llSI
Died Sept, 2', ltl7
Goo. t.4. Porlno.._o. 6. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd __ $, G. W.
Oscar Lawler ____J, ~. W.
Edward Colomllft_ _ G, T.
George Johnson _ _6, S.
Wm. H. Edwords._____ E;, L

492

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1913

&eorge M. Perine........&. M.
P1clflc No. 11'
lorn 1152
Dlocl Oct. 6, 1'3J
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler..--.S. G. W.
W. Frank Plarco.. _.J, 6. W.
Edwerd Colomon.....- ...G. T.
George John1on ___ &, S.
ThomH J. llaltor........_ .. G, L.

John D. Murphey..........&. M.
Alt• No. J:U
lorn July 7, 116J
Dlod Sept. II, lt41
Bonj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M.
Alb. G. Bumett..._ ..$. G. W.
F. V. KHsling .. _ .._ ..J, 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.............- ..6• S.
Thom•• J. Baltor..............6. L.

Charlot Albert Adema ..&. M.
Excelsior No. 166
Born Nov. 21, 1167
Geo. F. Roddon ........ D. 6. M.
Sam. E. Burle............$. 6. W.
Wm. A. Shermon......J. G. W.
Wm. Parler Filmer.......... &. T.
John Whicher.................. 6. S,
Thome• J. Belter..._ _,,&. L

1914

George F. Rodden ........G. M.
Marin No. 191
lorn Dec..24, 1167
Dlocl M1rdl I, ltM
Sim. E. Burle............ D. 6. M.
Wm. A. Shermon ......S. G. W.
Arthur S. Crite1........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... &. T,
John Whlcher..................6. S.
ThomH J. Baler.............. G. L

1908
Oscar Lawlor
..
G. M.
Eaat &1to No. 2'0
lorn Aprll 2, 1111
W. Frank Piorco........ D. G. M.
Deni R. Weller ...- ..S. G. W.
A. J. Monroe ............J. G. W.
Edward Colomon...- ......6. T.
John Whlcher..................6. S.
ThomH J. llalter........._6, L.

1909

1•

W. Frank Plarce............6. M.
01kl1nd No.
lom J1n. 16, 11111
Died Oct. 3, mo
Dona R. Weller ........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe............$. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer ....-.J. G. W.
Edward Colemen......._ ..&, T.
John Whichor..................6. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........-.G. L

Benj. F. Bledsoe ............ G. M.
Sen lorn1rdlno No. Ml
Born Feb. I, 1874
Dlod Oct. JO, 1931
Alb. G. Burnett........ D. G. M.
F. V. KHsling ............S. G. W.
W. Rh. Hervey..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.............- ..6. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L

1915

1910

Albert G. Burnett.......... &. W.
Sant• Rose No. 17
Born Aprll t, 1156
Died AuCJ. 15, rm
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey ......$. G. W.
Bradford Webstor....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ... _ .... &. T.
John Whichor.................. 6. S.
Thomas J. Belter.............. &. L

Dona R. Weller.............. &. M.
So. C11lfornl1 No. 211
lorn M1rch 24, 1174
Dlocl Jin. t, lt47
A. J. Monroe ............ D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer. _ _$, G. W.
J. D. Murphey ...... _.J, 6. W.
Edward Colemon....- .....G. T.
John Whlcher...- -........6. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........-.6. L.

Francis V. KHsling ........6. M.
Callfornl• No. I
Born Feb. 17, Im
Wm. Rh . Horvey ...... D. G. M.
Bradford Webster .... $. G. W.
Charles A. Adoms....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................6. S.
Thomas J. Belter ........- ..6. L.

1911
Alonzo J. Monroe ..........&. M.
H11mboldt No. 1'
lorn Oct. It ...

Dlod Juno ''· 1'22
Wm. P. Filmer.......... D. 6. M.
J. D. Murphey..........$. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........J. 6. W.
Edward Colemon..__..G, T.
John Whlchor_..__...6. S.
ThomH J. llakor....---..6. L.

1912
Wm. P. Filmer................ &. M.
KlnCJ Solomon No. 260
lorn March 2, 1866
Dlod Nov. 22, It42
Jno. D. Murphoy...... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bled100........S. 6. W.
Alb. G. Burnett __J, G. W.
Edward Colemon..- ...G. T.
John Whlcher_ _,_,6, S.
ThomH J. Baker....- - 6 . L

1916

1917
Wm. Rhodes Hervey ....G. M.
Pentalphl No. 202
lorn March 26, ll70
Dlod Fob. I, 1953
Brodford Webster ... 0. G. M.
Charles A. Adems .... S. 6. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor..........G. T.
John Whichor..................G. S.
Thomas J. Belter......- ..6. L

493

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1907

1919

1920

1921
Samuel E. Burle.. _ ....... 6. M.
Sunset No. 112
Born Feb. 13, 1170
Died fob. 14, 1961
Wm. A. Shormon ...... D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crlto1........S. G. W.
David J. RHH ..........J. 6. W.
Wm. Parlor Rlmor .......... 6. T.
John Whlcher..................6. S.
Thomas J. Beler..._ ........G. L

1922

1925

1931

1937

Albert E. Boynton ..........G. M.
Orovlllo No.IOI
lorn Oct. t, 1871
Died fob. 22, lt41
Geo. L Jonos. ........... D. 6. M.
Will H. Rscher..- -.. S. G. W.
6vL A. Hutaff_ _ .J. 6. W.
Wm. Perler Rimer.. _ .....&. T.
John Whlcher.......- ........ 6. S.
Thom•• J. Beker.............. G. L.

Robt. II. G•ylord.--6· M.
01kl1nd No. 1•
lorn NOY. 24, 1176
Died AuCJ. 4, ltSJ
Frank W. Ml.ter.._.D. 6. M.
James B. 6ilf..___$. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton.. _, __J, 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- ......6. T.
John Whicher..·-··-·--..6. S.
ThomH J. Baltor......- ...... G. L.

James T. Freaer.............. 6. M.
Humboldt No. 7t
Born AuCJ. 21, 1161
Died Juno 26, ltsl
Leon 0. Whitsell... ... D. G. M.
William H. Wasto ....S. G. W.
William B. Ogdon....J. G. W.
Wm. Pulter Filmer.......... &. T.
John Whicher..._............. 6. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. L

1921
George L Jones ............ &. M.
M1dlson No. 21
lorn May II, rm
Died Juno 22, 1'116
Will H. Fischer........ D. G. M.
&us. A. Huteff..........S. 6. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... &. T.
John Whicher..................6. S.
Thomes J. Beler..............G. L.

1927
Will H. Rscher........- ...6. M.
Wilshire No. 445
Born Sept. II, 1171
Died Oct. 4, 190
Gus. A. HutefL ....... D. 6. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ....$. 6. W.
J. S. Ro11 ....................J. G. W.
Wm. Perler Filmer.......... &. T.
John Whicher.................. 6. S.
Thomes J. Beler.............. 6. L.

1932

1938

Fr•nl W. Ml.ter............ G. M.
&otor No. 424

Leon 0. Whitsell... .......&. M.
Or1ncao &rove No. 2tJ
Born July 10, 1876
William H. Weste .... D. G. M.
William B. Ogdon ....$. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor.......... 6. T.
John Whicher.................. 6. S.
Losito E. Wood ................6. L

Born Doc. 30, 1m

Died Mey 22, 1947
Jeme1 B. Gist............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ..........S. 6. W.
R. V. Whiting ............ J. &. W.
Wm. Perler Rlmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.._. __........ 6. S.
Thomas J. Beler......_...... 6. L

1933

1939

James B. Gist ................ G. M. Williem II. Ogden........ &. M.
Hollywood Ji'lo. Jll .
Pent•lphe No. 202
Born AuCJ. 26L 1876
Born AuCJ. 8, 1161
Died Sept. I~, 1954
Died April 25, 1954
R. V. Whiting ............ D. 6. M. Lloyd E. Wilson ........ D. 6. M.
Earl Warren ..............$. G. W. Frank M. Smlth ........ S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller........J. 6. W. Leslie E. Wood ........J. G. W.
W'!':'.. Perler Filmor..........G. T. Wm. Per.er Filmor..........G. T.
John Whicher..................6. S. John Whicher.................. 6. S.
ThomH J. Belter ........- ..6. L. Welter Leonard.............. &. L

1928

1934

1940

1923

Gustav A. Huteff.......... 6. M.
Dunsmuir No. 2t7
Born Oct. & 111'
Died Oct. If, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg ..•.. D. 6. M.
J. S. Ro11..................S. 6. w.
Robt. B. 6eylord......J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer..........6. T.
John Whlcher.._..............6. S.
Thomas J. Balter..............&. L

Randolph V. Whltlng .... G. M.
KlnCJ Solomon No. 160
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Died Feb. 4, lt52
Earl Warron ..............D. 6. ·M.
Rollie W. Miller........ S. G. W.
James T. Fraser........J. G~ W.
Wm. Perler Filmor.......... G. T.
John Whlcher..................G. S.
Losito E. Wood ................6. L

Uoyd E. Wilson ..............&. M.
lnCJlosldo No. 6JO
Born AuCJ. 16, 11'5
Died Nov. 2, 1'61
Frank M. Smith.......... D. 6. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W.
Claude H.Morrlson ..J. G. W.
Wm. Perler Filmer.......... &. T.
John Whicher..................6. S.
Walter Leonard ..............&. L

Arthur S. Crite1 ............ G. M.
lakorsflold No. 224
lam F9b. 4, 111'
Dlod Apr. 21, 1957
David J. Reose .......... D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton........$. G. W.
Goo. L Jones ............ J. G. W.
Wm. Parlor Filmer.. ___&. T.
John Whicher.....___...6. S.
Thomea J. Balor...___ 6, L

1929

1935

C. M. Wollenberg .. _ ...&. M.
Sterr KlftCJ No. 144
lorn Merch II, Im
John S. Ro11.............. D. 6. M.
Robt. B. 6aylord......S. G. W.
Frank W. Ml.ter........J. 6. W.
Wm. Perler Filmer..._.....&. T.
John Whlcher_____ .6. S.
Thoma1 J. Belor.... _ _ ,6, L

1941

Earl Warren ....................&. M.
Saquole No. Mt
Born Merch It, lltl
Rollie W. Millor...... D. 6. M.
James T. Fraser........$. G. W.
Leon 0. Whitsell... ... J. G. W.
Wm. Perler Rimer..........&. T.
John Whichor..................6. S.
Leslie E. Wood ......... _ ...6. L

1936

Frenl M. Smith ..............&. M.
East &et• No. 2'0
lorn April I, 18'4
Died April 7, ltSI
Leslie E. Wood .......... D. 6. M.
Claude H. Morrison ..$. 6. W.
G. C. DeFore1t........J. 6. W.
Wm. Par•er Rimer..........&. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............&. S.
Chester H. Werlow........ 6. L

Rollie W. Mtller............6. M.
Sunset No. Jl2
lorn Oct. 17, lllJ
, Died July II, 1760
James T. Fra1er........ D. 6. M.
Leon O. Whltaell......S. G. W.
William H. Werie....J. G. W.
Wm. Perler Rlmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..____..6, S.
Leslie E. Wood ..._. _ _&, L

Leslie E. Wood .............. G. M.
Provident No. aot
lorn April 2, llt7
Claude H. Morri1on ..D. 6. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..$. G. W.
Lewrence C. Kelley.. J. 6. W.
Wm. Perler Filmer..........&. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......_._&. S.
Chester H. Warlow........&. L

William A. Shormen...... G. M.
Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, IUO
Died Fob. It, 1940
Arthur S. Crite1........ D. 6. M.
David J. Roese ..........$. 6. W.
Alb. E. Boynton........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor.......... 6. T.
John Whlchor ..................6. S.
Thome1 J. Balter.............. G. L

1918

1924

Bradford Webster ........G. M.
Live Oak No. 61
lorn Dec. 14, ""
Dlod Juno 4, lt41
Charles A. Adams .... D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ..._ ..$. G. W.
Sam. E. Burle.._ _.J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Rlmor .......... 6. T.
John Whicher.____,,6. S.
Thomas J. Baker._,_&, L

David J. RHse.............. 6. M.
Son 8uoneventur1 No. 214
Born AuCJ. 22, 1171
Dlod Nov. t, 1934
Alb. E. Boynton ........ D. 6. M.
Geo. L Jon ..___$, 6. W.
Will H. Racher..__.I. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer.-.....6. T.
John Whicher.
6. S.
ThomH J. llaker_ _ _
L

e.

1930
John Stewert Ross ........&. M.
El Centro No. 314
lom M1y 21 117'
Died AUCJ. 31, lts2
Robt. B. Geylord ...... D. 6. M.
Frank W. Mixter._ ..... S. 6. W.
Jam•• B. &tat.• __,J, &. W.
Wm. Perler Filmer. __.. 6. T.
John Whlcher.._ _ _•• 6. S.
T1toma1 J. Baler_ _ _&, L

1942

494

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1943

1949

1955

Claude H. Morrison._...G. M.
S.n Diego No. 35
Bom July 10, 1887
Died No-.. 2, 1953
Gilbert C. DeForest.. D. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling._..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..______ G. S.
Chester H. Werlow._.G. L

Ellsworth Meyer ____ G. M.
Liberal Aris No. 677
Born Feb. 77. 1905
Arthur Peulsen.......... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drepeau ......S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Welter H. E. von Konsky G. L

Edgu V. Stewert, Jr .....G.M.
Loyalty No. 529
Born Oct. 3, 1901
L Herold Anderson .. D.G.M.
Leo E. Andenon _______ S.G.W.
Phil N. Myers ..............J.G.W.
Edwerd H. Siems............ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Elbert W. Devi1..............G.L

1944

Gilbert C. DeForest._..G. M.
Reading No. 254
Born Sept. 18, 1889
Died Jen. 25, 1'152
Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore...._.J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling._ ...G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ... ___...G. S.
Chester H. Werlow....- ..G. L

1945
Lewrence C. Kelley ......G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Oct. 24, 1945
Arthur W. BrouilleL... G. M.
Park No. 44t
Born Jan. 21, 11114
Died Sept. 18, 1953
John R. Moore ..- ...S. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling._..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .. ___ _G. S.
Chester H. Werlow___ G. L

1946
John R. Moor•.·-·---6. M.
Meridian No. 6'7
Born Sept. tm
Chester H. Werlow.. D. G. M.
Edward H. Siems..- ..S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer.. __J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling. __..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson.·--·····-·G. S.
Arthur M. Werren ..- ......G. L.

1947
Chester H. Werlow..•-.G. M.
Fresno No. 247
Born June 30, 18"
Edward H. Siems.._.. D. G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer___..S. G. W.
Arthur Peulsen....._.J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling. _____ e;. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson._______ G. S.
Arthur M. Warren ..- ......G. L.

1948
Edward H. Siems....- ....G. M.
Plymouth No. 560
lorn December 7, I'°3
Ellsworth Meyer........ D. G. M.
Arthur Peulsen ...._....S. G. W.
Louis C. Drepeeu ____J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesllng .... _..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...- .......G. S.
Arthur M. Warren___ G. L

1950

1956

Arthur Paulsen ___G. M.
Trinity No. 'U
Born May 4, 1890
Louis C. Drepeau._.D, G. M.
Arthur M. Werren ....S. G. W.
Frank Herwell, Jr___J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ..-G. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson _ _ _ G. S.
Welter H. E. von Konsky G.L.

L. Harold Andenon ........G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1900
Leo E. Anderson ........ D.G.M.
Phil N. Myen.........____ S.G.W.
Joe L ShelL..... _____J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems......- ..-.G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ... _. _____G.S.
Elbert W. Devi•··-·-··-····-·G.L

1951

1957

Louis C. Drepeau....._.Q. M.
Poinsettia No. 613
Born Aug. 30, 1885
Arthur M. Werren .. D. G. M
Frank Harwell, Jr.....S. G. W
Henry C. Cleusen ....J. G. W.
Frencis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L.

Leo E. Anderson ............G.:..t.
Hollywood No. 355
Born February 20. 1902
Phil N. Myers............ D.G.M.
Joe L Shel'-----···-·----S.G.W.
Alfred F. Breslauer...... J.G.W.
Edwerd H. Siems............ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........... - ...G.S.
Elbert W. Devls... ___________ G.L.

1952

1958

Arthur M. Werren ........G. M. Phil N. Myen ........ __________ G.M.
McCloud Lodge No. 430
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born, January 12, 18'17
Born December 'U, 1901
Joe L ShelL......_. _____D.G.M.
Frenk Harwell, Jr•.... D. G. M.
S.G.W.
Henry C. Clausen ....S. G. W. Alfred F. Bresleuer......
J.G.W.
Edgar V. Stewert, Jr. J. G. W. Guy B. Mize .........- .....
Frencis V. Keesling ..•_...G. T. Edward H. Siems·----··-··G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ....-·····-··-G.S.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...·---···G· S.
Elbert W. Devls.._ . __G. L Elbert W. Devis..·-····- ···--G.L

1953

1959

Frenk Harwell, Jr-... _..G. M.
B.-.erly Hiiis No. 528
Born October 4, 18'8
Henry C. Clausen .... D. G. M.
Edger V. Stewert, Jr-S. G. W.
L Herold Anderson ..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling _____ G, T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..._ _ _c;, S.
Elbert W. Devls....--.6· L.

Joe L Shell.......- .....- ......6.M.
San Diego No. 35
lorn February 18, 1892
Alfred F. Breslauer.____ D.G.M.
Guy B. Mize•. _. ______S.G.W.
Ire W. Cobum ............J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems.......•......G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ....-···-····G.S.
Elbert W. Devis_____.G.L.

1954

1960

Henry C. Cleusen...- .....6.M. Alfred F. Breslauer.......... G.M.
lngleslde No. 630
Starr King No. 344
Born June 30, 1905
Born August 26, 1898
Edgar V. Stewert, Jr•.. D.G.M.J Guy B. Mize ................ D.G.M.
L Harold Anderson.__ S.G.W. Ira W. Coburn ............S.G.W.
Leo E. Anderson ......._.J.G.W. Elmer W. Heald ..........J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems......- ...G.T. Arthur M. Warren. __________ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson_.____G.S. Edward H. Siems..............G.S.
Elbert W. Devts.. ____ G.L Donald G. CempbelL....- G.L

1961
Guy B. Mi:r:e ...............- ... G. M.
Unity No. 368
Born April 23, 1901
Ira W. Coburn .. _. ____ D. G. M.
Elmer W. Heald ........S. G. W.
Theodore Meriam ___ _J, G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ..........G. T.
Edward H. Siems............ G. S.
Donald G. CampbelL ....G. L

495

496

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

UST OF INSPECTORS
lrupector1

Date of Commwion

Diliricl

Clarence L. Fraser..·--··-····-······-·····-··.December, 1927.•....·-······-··-··-··-··-424
Wm. S. Thompson............................................March, 1928..·-··-··-··-···-·-··-··-412
Niles 0. Millar.......................-····-········-·············July, 1932..••.·-····-···-·-··-··-···346
Herbert R. Hargrave·-··-··-···----··-September 15, 1934......·-··-··-··-······-··.418
John Behrens ·······-····-······---·--·-·January 2, 1935.....·--··········-···········378
Samuel Dollar ·········-··-········---······--····-December, 1935...........- ...................416
Willard G. Babcock................................January 10, 1936................................616
George S. Ward.....................................- ...January 1, 1937................................ 104
Fred Weed ......... - ....................................... September, 1938.•·-··-··-···················642
Guido de Ghetaldi. ......................................October, 1938..·-······-······-···········306
Roy H. Lenthall..............-········-··················.January, 1939.•·-·-----·-··-·-··..364
Harold S. Morrison......... - .....................December 1, 1940·--·-··-··-··-··-··--·.512
Elmer M. Hopper............................................May 10, 1943..·-··-·······················304
Melvin R. Berbower............................ November 10, 1943................................624
Frederic E. Clark....................................January 26, 1944.·--······-······-···········530
James B. Lawson..........................................March 6, 1945..·-······-··-··········-···426
Arch Balchin........·-··················-······-···········March 27, 1945.....•·-··-··--·-··-·-···392
Edward C. Lohmeyer..........·-···········September 27, 1945..·-······-··-··-······-··-322
Alexander Duncan......................................October 9, 1945.•.•.·--··········-··-·······301
Robert W. Nicol......................................October 24, 1945......·-··-··-··-······-···612
W. Ralph Anderson..·-··-··-··········-··-···November 4, 1946................................360
Frank W. Johnson...........................- ...November 21, 1946·-···---·-···..·-······----544
Fred C. Pritschke............................................April 7, 1947...- ..- ..- .....·-··-··-···428
Russell Northrop..................................December 20, 1947·--···-·-···..·-..-······524
Howard S. Kaulbach........................... .December 29, 1947...-···-·-··-······-··-···358
Roy T. Kiele....................................................April 22, 1948.•..............................542
Elmer Glen Van Tassell... .................September 11, 1948..·-··············-········---l 12
Reginald Reynolds ................................November 5, 1948..·-······-··-··········-···108
Louis H. Mahler................- ......................January 31, 1949..·-······················-···520
Orin Compton.................................- .......February 9, 1949...-······-······-······-···420
John A. Owen..................................................May 16, 1949...........- ..............- ...550
Chas. A. Thomasset........................................June 28, 1949................................570
Wilson Ernest Lathrop..............................October 1, 1949..·-··········-···········....410
Earl Caldwell.....- ..-····-················· ..........January 16, 1950...- ...........................324
D.-lhm 11! Luck....·-··--·-···.....- ...·-··..······-·--Ai>Til 14 1~"0···-···························408
Elvin C. Drake ........-·····-········-········-········.April 14, 1950..·-··-··-··-······-·······526
Anson McArthur....·-··-····-······-··················-··-May 8, 1950..................·-······-···552
Martin 0. Veland ...-········-····················-···-·.May 8, 1950................................5511
Paul Thompson.....-··-···-··-···············..···.........May 8. 1950...-·-····-·············-----'H12
Ted R. Siems.........- ..--······························-·····May 8, 1950................................814
Frank W. Raddatz......... -.....................November 24, 1950................................546
Joseph Myron Ruggiero....................December 21, 1950................................332
J. Ralph Dawdy..............·-··-··············-··.January 26, 1951..·-······-··············-···422
Andre L. Armand..................... _.............January 26, 1951 ........·-····-···············378
Reginald Bunce ........................................October 23, 1951...............- ...............545
Kenneth C. Stanley..................................February 7, 1952................................638
Wilfred W. Partridge..................................March 31, 1952.......- .......................502
Lynn A. Blackmun......................................March 31, 1952................................503
Edward Farley..................................................May 12, 1952................................ 208
Harry K. Wldup.................................. November 10, 1~"2 ................................344
Fred L. Fersnison..._.................................January 1. 19"lt...............................818
Harry H. Afman...------··-··..······-··..···March 2. 1953......_______ ......- ...844
Paul A. Hackler...____..........--...............March 26. 1953 ................................330
Samuel Steelman..._ .........- ...·-·---..... _.. _ ..April 17, 1953 ................................528
Sam Lovell.---··---··-..--......._.._.. _...... .June 25, 1953...- ...........................214
Robert Edlfar...-·--·-··-..-·--..- ..-·-····August 27. 1953 ............ ···-···············384
Ray Earl Burdg... _ .... _.. _...._..._....- .....September 5, 1953................................217
James E. Finle:r.....- ....- ..........----·-··.....October 10, 1953...- ..- ..- ...................328

r

ln1pertor1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

497

Date of Commiuion

Distrid

kloyd Hanson .............. _ .._,,_.,_ .............January 1, 1954................................350
Ro n H. Ferguson ...................................____January 1, 1954......._______..._m
M~ymond Glenn Hollar.................- ...........January 1, 1954................................220
ilton Hoffe Sharp..................................February 1, 1954...................- ......- ...210
go~don F. Porter.................................... February 10, 1954...- ...........................514
vJalborn Schonhoff......................................March 12, 1954.......................- .......402
Fa lace H. Fiske..........................................March 12, 1954...- ...... ____,,_,, ____ ,,.404
Nred Walker Waitman..................................April 19, 1954...- ..-··-··--·..··-··-...518
orbert Peter Tester.......- .............................June 30, 1954...................- ...........848
Ray Smith. ...................... _________ ...... _.....December 15, 1954...................- ...........554
~rlmer A. Wells...- ....- ....- ...............- .......January 7, 1955..·-············---..····-···222
arence C. Smith. .....................................January 7, 1955............_..................364
Alva A. Daniells ........................................January 13, 1955............................... .427
Henry Drashner..................................... .February 14, 1955... _...........................504
William C. Brouillard......................................April 8, 1955................................116
Adolph H. Franzen............................................May 1, 1955................................ 336
Edward C. Will... .............................................July 14, 1955 ................................ 367
Frank Leroy Sutliff..................................... .August 9, 1955..·-······-···················567
Carl E. Moore ................................................October 3, 1955................................432
Ralph M. Hinds ..........................................October 29, 1955......·-·······-..- ..-··--·318
James L. Miles ..........................................December 9, 1955..._.....·-·--------.......549
Hector McD. Moir................................. .December 15, 1955................................382
Charles Frederick Chapman....................January 6, 1956...- ..............- ..- ..- ...560
William Waters Shugart .....................- ...January 6, 1956.......................- .......431
Freeman George Sanders......................January 20, 1956.......................- ..- ...394
Harold F. Trafton......................................... .April 24, 1956................................ 388
A. Bird Cross ................................................... .May 20, 1956... - ...........................629
Daniel Kleiman ..............................................July 16, 1956................................411
Joseph L. Ousley.............- .............................July 16, 1956................................602
E. Ross Baylis ..................................................July 25, 1956................................365
Floyd 0. Mason................................................July 30, 1956................................625
Kenneth Dowell ....................................... .August 20, 1956................................ 605
Earl Moore Vigus......................... - ...........August 23, 1956...- ...... _.____ ,,_,......603
N::ibert J. Raymond ................................. .August 29, 1956...............- ..- ......- ...632
W ph W. Cutler ....................................... .August 31, 1956...........- ..........- ..- ...516
Wayne A. Dahling.............................. September 11, 1956......·-··-·-··-----....-208
.alter Clayton .................................... November 23, 1956..............._,,_,,.........421
Field Thompson .................................. November 27, 1956................................538
Leslie S. Wayman................................November 27, 1956................................539
Lewis Arthur Pugh.......- .................._...December 3, 1956...........- ...................510
~orge T. Rowse ......................................January 1, 1957................................314
U ysses George Patropulos....................January 1, 1957................................333
George Q. Eva~...........--.................. _...January 4, 1957..._··---·--··-··-..- ...IS19
~rge W. Perkins.................- .......... _...January 16, 1957..·-··-··-..·---·-..- ...5156
Clalter V. Durst........................................January 17, 1957...........- ..........- .......352
B arence E. Shoaf....................................January 25, 1957................................316
_Jrrell Roberts Ries ....................................April 1, 1957................................ 634
s·Jon T. D{t-Rant............................................April 18, 1957................................ 620
Li n~y A. eb~ter..........................................May 9, 1957...............- ...............300
~w: H~h Field ..........................................May 15, 1957................................ 637
Rif eld cott McLees ..................................May 15, 1957....................... - ....... 639
Fr eyk L. Blurton..............................................May 24, 1957...................- ...........628
v·an N. Long................................................July 31, 1957................................374
J ictor Prenk ........................................ September 5, 1957................................320
A::es E. Ba.con~..- .............................. .December 15, 1957..........__________ .......ISll
Phil'? Ragghia?tL.......................................January 1, 1958..._..______,,_,._...368
Le tip Stembridge Hunt..........................January 1, 1958....... _,,_,, ___ ,,_____..fllO
Albeer Howard Casagrande.......- ...........January 1, 1958...........- ......-·--·--..117
H rt A. Bry~eson....................................January 1, 1958......._,._,, _____.._...110
ugh G. Martm..............................................April 28, 1958..........._,_____,, _____..227

498

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Inspectors

Date of Commission

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

District

Lloyd Ario Countryman........................•.August 13, 1958..........·-··-··-···········114
Charles L. Foster......................................January 1, 1959......·-······-···············334
Carlton H. Rothblum................... _...........January 1, 1959......·-······-······-·······342
Samuel G. Clark.............................- .........January 1, 1959..............·-··-·-··-···326
Arthur L. Hughes....................................January 23, 1959................................ 109
Alfred Johnson ·········-··················-········.February 9, 1959....................... _.......361
Walter Kenneth Reed................................March 16, 1959................................630
Daniel D. Rowlands ........................................April 6, 1959................................340
Percy W. Lindt................................................June 4, 1959................................106
Elmer E. Ross ................................................:.June 8, 1959................................366
Frank P. Lemen. .........................................October 8, 1959...............- ...............218
Arthur Linsk ......................................... .December 1, 1959................................540
Claudis Thomas Shirley......................December 1, 1959................................566
Carl A. Halter....................................... .December 15, 1959................................513
Thurlan Wm. Heidner........................December 15, 1959................................517
William Robusch ................................December 15, 1959................................551
Charles B. Wight..................................December 15, 1959................................307
John W. Baker, Jr.................................December 15, 1959................................372
Ralph P. Partridge..............................December 15, 1959.................................319
Charles J. Wentz..................................December 15, 1959................................626
Alfred A. Penrose......................................January 1, 1960................................224
Taubner G. Hamma..................................January 1, 1960................................228
Gordon E. Robinson. .................................January 1, 1960................................338
James R. Young..........................................January 1, 1960................................515
John D. Dearing, Sr...................................January 1, 1960................................302
Carl R. Ramsey......................................February 26, 1960................................362
Wendell L. Goodwin............................February 26, 1960................................532
Theodore B. Fach..........................................March 1, 1960................................548
Oscar Hubert Nelson. .....................................April 5, 1960................................640
William Bottorff ..........................................April 22, 1960................................ 536
Earl James Walker........................................April 22, 1960................................621
Frederick Bolte ................................................May 3, 1960................................385
Harry M. Michelsen. .......................................June 1, 1960................................337
Lee H. Buchheister................................... .August 20, 1960................................390
Ray H. Paine........................................September 20, 1960................................506
George Dennis Lober................................October 4, 1960................................606
Romayne Harvey Bantz............................January 1, 1961................................310
Larry C. Basker....................... _..................January 1, 1961................................356
Herbert H. Hobson................ -..................January 1, 1961................................348
Lorenza H. Shaw........................................January 1, 1961................................638
Burton Me)"er, Jr.......................................January 1, 1961................................ 534
Robert A. Crigler......................................January 1, 1961................................522
Frank E. Stevens......................................January 10, 1961................................508
Russell F. Bragg......................................January 12, 1961................................601
Benjamin F. Nash.................. -................January 18, 1961................................521
Roy C. Addleman, Jr ............................... January 18, 1961................................523
Arnold G. Robertson................................January 18, 1961................................564
Richard Marks Lustig............................January 18, 1961................................608
Cressey J. Wescott..................................January 20, 1961................................204
William E. Marshall................................January 27, 1961................................212
Horace R. LaFortune............................February 15, 1961................................216
A. Boyd Collier......................................February 15, 1961 ................................219
Wayne E. Philippi... ...................................March 29, 1961................................120
Edward L. Spellmeyer......... -.......................May 15, 1961 ................................118
John Keller, Jr.................................................June 1, 1961 ................................308
Wendell Howard Nicol... ...................September 22, 1961................................226
John Clifton Carpenter...................... September 28, 1961................................430
George D. Stroope......................................October 9, 1961................................370

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

p,."''"""

R1'4lion1 tvi1h 1h1
R"o1mz.J tmtl in
Gf-tmtl LoJ11 of CJifONlid

Argentina:
Carlos Wilson, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Austria:
Fritz Blum, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse -12, Vienna 1, Austria

Belgium:
Rene Desgain, Secty.
5, Rue Du Chene, Brussels 1, Belgium
Bolivia:
Humberto Frias Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 554, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.
Brull:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Atte
Joaquim Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relatiorw;
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
A. Napoleao Figueiredo, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Lourival Evelin Vieira, Grand Secretary of Rel. Ext.
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Mario lierdy Silva, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Janyr Godinho, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 536, Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Napoleao Crispim, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 8348, Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel Ext.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Oswaldo Baucke, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil

499

500

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Canada1

Alberta-

Edward H. Rivers, Grand Secty,.
330 - 12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British ColumbiaJ. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
Canada-(Province of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton. Ontario.
Manitoba.
Thomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba.
New BrunswickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 430, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotiaHarold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.
P. 0. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandFloyd Drake, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
Quebec-J. Mel. Marshall, Grand Secty.,
11559 St. Marks St., Montreal, Quebec
SaskatchewanRichmond Mayson, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chiles
Oscar Pereira H., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A
China:
George W. Chen, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan. China
Colombla1
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Ignacio Ramirez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Carlos Rincon C., Grand Chancellor-Foreign Relations,
Apartado Aereo No. 4020, Cali, Colombia, S.A.
National Grand Lodge of Colombia
F. Silva, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations,
Apartado Nacional 333, Barranquilla, Colombia, S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander"
National Serene Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagena
Jose J. Alvarez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Nal. No. 16, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.
Costa Rlc:a:
Enrique Chaves B., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 3282, San Jose, Costa Rica.
.. Cuba:
(In exile in Florida)

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

•czec:ho-Slovakia:
Grand Lodge Lessing at Prague-National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand Lodge-Alfred Nyvang. Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Domlnlc:an Republic::
Alfredo de la Cuesta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 865, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Ecuador:
Jose H. Ricaurte R., Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.
•••Egypt:
The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Salvador (Cu1c:atlanh
Carlos Alfonso Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
2a Calle Oriente No. 43, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
England1
James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.
Freemasons Hall, London, England.

Finland:
Lauri Sarkia, Grand Secty,,
P. Esplanaadikatu 35E, Helsinki, Finland.
Franc:r.
French National Grand Lodge,
Jean P. Muet, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-sur-Selne, Paris, France.
The Grand Lodge of France,
Marcel Cerbu, Grand Secty.,
8 Rue Puteaux, Paris 17, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodges
P. 0. Box 16288, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
Greece:
Dr. Panayiotis Hadjipetros, Grand Secty.,
33 Skoufa St., Athens, Greece.
Guatemala1
Jorge J. Escandon Enriquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 48, Guatemala City, C. A.
Honduruz
Abel Villacorta C., Grand Secty. and Chancellor,
Apartado 336, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, C. A.
Jc:eland:
Olafur Gislason. Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4. (Box 44) Reykjavik, Iceland.

501

502

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ireland:
J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Shlomo Zarankin, Grand Secey.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Umberto Genova, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 5, Rome.
Japan

George H. Booth, Grand Secty.,
No. 13-1, Shiba, Sakae-Cho, Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Cantwell C. Brown, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Corl. Adalberto J. Abasolo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 134, Tijuana, Baja California
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Eduardo Vidal Loya, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
Jose Galvan Solis, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Manuel Flores Meza, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Guillermo Castillo G., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lod1e Unida Mexicana
Marcial Fernandez Vazquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mex.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Rogelio Jaime S., Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Netherlands:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. P. J. vanLoo, Grand Secty.,
2 Fluwelen Burgwal, The Hague.
New Souih Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Hall, Sydney, N.S.W.
New Zealand:
F. G. Northern, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 6439, Wellington C. I., New Zealand.
Nicaragua:
Carlos H. Muniz, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

503

.Norway:
Odd Lie-Davidsen, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
Julio A. Ramos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.
Peru1
Baldomero Carreno Galicio, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 587, Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Esteban Munarriz, Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelino, Manila, P. I.
Puerto Rico:
Juan L. Matos-Cintron, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santurce, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
V. I. Carter, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.
Scotland:
Alexander F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland
South Australia:
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty.•
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia.
Sweden:
Sven Svedin, Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Swiberland1
Grand Lodge Alpina,
Ernst Hagmann, Grand Secty.,
16 Leonard-Ragazweg, Zurich 55, Switzerland.
Tasmania:
H. A. Wilkinson. Grand Secty.,
119 Maquarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Vene:suela:
(Rep. of Venezuela).
Francisco Escobar Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodie.
C. W. Davis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collin8 St., Melbourne, Australia.

•vlenna:
Western Australia:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G.P.O. Box D-177, Perth, Western Australia.
•Yugoslaria1
Grand Lodge of the Serva-Croats & Slovenes.

•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to being rendered
inoperative before and during World War Il, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.
••Recognized by Grand Lodge of California prior to the Castro regime.
•••Recognition not withdrawn but no contact for some years. ·

504

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABET ICAL UST OF LODGES
A
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acom (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los An~eles.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), Daly City.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
American River (795), Folsom

Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angele1.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Los Angeles.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Gardena.
Ashland (798), San Lorenzo.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay Claire Vista (799), San Diego.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5) Benicia.
Benj. Frani.cjfu (509), Beverly Hills.
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Camellia (805), Temple City.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.

Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345)J. Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), uakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c

Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Central California Research Lodge,
Fresno
Channel (757), Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

505

ALPHABET ICAL UST OF LODGES-Co ntinued

Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Citro! (656), Brea.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claiborne (185), Point ArenL
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Claude H. Morrison (747),
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Chula Vista.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Clear Lake 083), Lower Lake.
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Crocker (454), Daly City,
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Coalin~a (387), Coalinga.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Coasts1de (762), Paci.fl.ca.
Culver City (467), Los Angeles.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

D
Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley,

E

Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Rancho (759), Rico Rivera
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo,
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
Cajon.
El
(576),
Valley
El Cajon
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
View.
El Camino Research, Mountain
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Centro.
El
El Centro (384),
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Elk Grove 073), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity 020), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Five Points (779), Long Beach.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbeatown.

F
Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497) Oakland.
Fresno (247), hesno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

506 ·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICA L UST OF LODGES-Contin ued

ALPHABETICA L UST OF LODGES-Contin ued

G

L

Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
r..arvanzH (492). Los Angeles.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Edwards.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardino
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790), San Fernando.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H

Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hamilton (751), Novato.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hills Ferry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
HoHenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Huntin~ton Beach (380),
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach.
Highland (748), Highland.

I
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Ione (80), Ione.
Imperial (390), Imperial
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest. Inyo (221), Independence.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.

J

James A. Foshay (641), Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
James H. Kew (766), Inglewood.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, Hawaii.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.
Koolau (801), Kailua, Hawaii.

507

Lemon Grove (736), Lemon Grove.
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
La Canada (739), La Crescentia.
Honolulu, Hawaii.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach. Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lakewood (728), Long Beach.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La M.esa (407), Le Mesa.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Los Altos (712), Palo Alto.
Landmar.k (253). Esparto.
La Parfaite Umon (17), San Francisco. Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
La Puente (466), La Puente.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Las Palmas (366), Fr~sno.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Lassen (149), S!..!sanville.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Laurel (245). Willows.
Luther Burbank (752) Santa Rosa
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
·
Lynwood (600) Lynw'ood
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
·
'
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.

M
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission Bay (771), San Diego.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Magnolia Park ('715), Burbank.
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, Hawaii.
Moreno Valley (804), Sunnymead
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Maya (793), Los Angeles
Morningside Park (742), Inglewood.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mother Colony (750), Anaheim.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mountain View (194),
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mountain View.
Merced (749), Merced.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Diablo (448). Concord.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Jackson (295), Guemeville.
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
Mount M<?riah (44), San Francisco.
Midway (426), Taft.
Military Service (570) San Francisco Mount Ohve (506), Los Angeles.
· Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Millbrae (792) Burlingame
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
.
•
Mill
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
. Va lle~ (356), Mill_Ya!Jey.
Mt. Wilson (794), Altadena
Mmeral King (720), Visalia.

508

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326) Needles.
Neptune (619~, Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
Northern Califor nia Research
Lodge, San Francisco.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188) . Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Ocean Park.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389). Long Beach.
Paramount (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462). San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598),
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60) , Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), No. Sacramento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
R

Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.

Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Richmond (375), S11n Francisco
Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhead.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vfata.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank •
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.

Rolling Hills (781), Lomita.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Selma (277), Selma.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Saint Helena (93~, St. Helena.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Saint John's (725), Walnut Creek.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
Sierra (788), Bass Lake.
San Antonio (694), South Gate.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino. Sierra Valley (184), Sierra.ville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
Silverado (782), Napa.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dieguito (775), Cardiff-by-theSea. Silver Trowel (415), Hollywood.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
Simi Valley (806), Simi.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
Snow Mountain (271), Stonyford.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sojourner (507), Duarte.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Southern California (278),
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
Los Angeles.
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
Southern California Research
Boulder Creek.
Lodge, Hollywood.
San Marino (685), San Marino.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
Sam Miguel (285), San Miguel.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
South Pasadena (367),
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
South Pasadena.
San Pedro (322), San Pedro.
South San Francisco (212),
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
San Francisco.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
South West (283), National City.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara. Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Santa Maria (580) , Ramona.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Scepter (U.D.), West Sacramento.
Sunnyside (577), Los Anfreles
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Hawaii.
Sunnyvale (511), Cupertino. ·
Seafaring (708), Newport Beach.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.

509

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temescal (314), Corona.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gabilan (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), Los Angeles.

Torrance (447), Torrance.
Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.

Vermont Square (515), Inglewood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Waikiki (774), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Warren G. Harding (579),
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Westchester (703), Los Angeles.
West Covina (758), Baldwin Park.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles.
Westminster (787), Westminster.

Westwood (501), Westwood.
White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
William D. Stephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willit.s.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), South Gate.
Zenith (768), Van Nuys.

Yosemite (99), Mereed.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.
Yucca Valley (802), Yucca Valley.

z

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "California Freemason," copies of which have been sent
to each Grand Lodge. This program will be continued.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterly
and each copy carries additional reviews. Hence,
they qo not appear in these Proceedings.

511

PROCEEDING S OF THE

512

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INDEX FOR 1961
A

Additions and Replacements Reserve

375

&tt~~~i~~·:::=;:~:·:~~·:=~::~~=:~·::::.:::~-=~~·::=~=~·:: ii
Amendments to ~Laws

92

Ann~~Y~fc~~~~:~:~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g
1

Annual Co=unication Date

27

Annual Returns

346

gi?.:~~~~~-~=--~=~:::·=~~~~=:-~:.::~~~:::~:=-~~~::::··=. i%

~~;g!r2't.,~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~

APJ:::~:i -····················-····························································································· j1~

A;p)f~~fon··p;;·T~i-;£::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 464

Appointments

__________ 318, 412

fg:~~~~~:~~:~:=.~::~=.:=.-~~=:~~~~:.~:=.:=:~~:~::::::: ~i

A'Jfe=:Jio~-~~!~~---·······························································-····················· 3iA
~~~de~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 345
Aprons,
Officers'
60
Resolution
Presented
-·····················
··-····················
························
························
··
3-07
Legislation
-----··-··········
····················
·······················
························
·················· 47
Ashland Lodge No. 798 Coo.stituted.................................................
...........................
Attendance
Listed ········------·-···-----·-··- -------·········-··········-·············-··············-···············-········-·-······· 420
227
Reported -·················-·········································································
······················

l~..;.=i:~;::~:~:~:::~:::~::.~::~::::=~~::~~~::~:::~:::::::~=~ Hi
B

Bay
ClaireGrand
VistaLodge
LodgeRecognu:ed
No. 7?9 Constituted.....
........
47
Belgium,
...............................................
...............................................
.......................
........
189
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453
85
8

~~=!i~tiCha~~~rt~~tt;;::::::::::·.·.·.·::::::::::::::::·.·::::::::::::::::::·:.·:.·.·:::::::::::::::~::::=::::: 208

1R.~solutioo Presented ................................................................................................ ~~
Legillation --··-·----..-··-··········-··········-······-····--······-·········•·····-·····-··-··-·······

513

Biography,
Alfred F. Breslauer....................................................................................
Board
of Control
Report of Listed
············--······--·····------------------------·-------·........................
· -------------··-····-··
··-·-···············--··.-······.. 418
1'48
Members
........................
........................
Breslauer, Alfred F.,.......................
Grand Muter
Photograph ········-·····································
···-·····-·-··········-······················
-·----···-·--·····---·················-·····
·······-·······--····-·······Fron·tisp
lece
Biography
·······-······--Appoin,tmentl···-··················
for Communkatto n•..••..........•......•...•.........••..•••••••
-·-······-······-'"1
:':" 91
Decisions ························
··············································
··············································
·········-······························-····
·············-···························-·
············-··"'• 28139
Exhibits
lfel~~e~~~~~~~-~...:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::.--: 1~
Pnxlamations ·································································································-······- 52
~:~~~:~d=~~n~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::~!if:iil: 2i~
~~:~:~l &::!:u~·-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::3}: :~

Visitations
to OtherFund
Juriadictioo.s..
.......................
........................
.......................
.2-f, 51
Brigham
Scholarship
Audit.
........................
.......................
.......................
...........
356
Budget
Appropriations
, 1961-62P.G.M.,
···············-··································································.312, 328
Burke, Samuel Edgerton,
Eulogy for....................................................- ..... 259
By-Laws
Amendments
Submitted..................
························
························
······················
···············-··92
Report
of Committee
-------------------------------········-···--··
·······
-·
--···--·-········· 159
Amendment
Uniform Code....... ---·---------·-------·· -----·-··-·· --------------------·- --··-·-··-----············
287

c
California
Freemason
Auditor'
s
Report •...............................................................................................33S, 337
Report
of
Correspondenc
e Committee........................
...............................................
. ........................
...................... 20967
Resolution
Presented
.......................
........................
Legislation
_.....................
.......................
................................................................. 298
Grand Lodge
Master"sNo.('nm.merrts..
........................ ....................... ............... -...................... . 20
Camellia
805
Instituted -··········································································································· 89
Chartered
···-······-··-······
California
Masonic
Memorial························
Temple ····························-····································· 208
Audit -·--··········-··-··
······················
······················
······················
·······················
······ 383
Honor
Dlatricta .......................
........................
.......................
........................
..........
154
Merit
Roll ···-·-········································································································· 154
Officers and Trult.eea................................................................................................ 419

fE:rE=~~:::::=~~~:~~:::~::=::::~:~:::~~=-~~:::~=-~~;~=. m

Calling Up (Masonic),
Procedures..................
---·
· · · · --·· -·-........................
-------·----·· -------·-.......................
----------·············...............
············· 317
Cemeteries
Report
of
Committee
Central California
Research Lodge Constituted.......................................................... 21847
Certification
---··-···-·-··-····
Changes
of Meeting
Place ···············································································-··- 3

~:= ~[B~wa5c:.~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=: 1~~
Charters
~ed~.~.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Ghristmas
and Enteitainm.ent Reserve
Audit
···········-··-·-·-·
·············-··-···
······················
······················
·········-·······-····
··-· 404
378
Contributions -·-······-···········
·······················
·······················
·······················
········-.....

514

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

·515

Decoto Home (Union City)

Clubhouses, Reports on

: : : : : : : :-: : : : : : : : :-: : ~: : -: : : :-:-:-: :-: :-: -: -: : : : : : : : ~ '. ~?~
J;k~~l~~~~;;::-~~~;~:-ii:::::-:
Columbia Temple, Report of Committee...·-·····················································--·------···
Committee Reports_______________________......................·-··-··························-······-·Combined
Commercialism

241
287

§~~g~~=:~~:~~=-=.=~:~~=;~=·-~:::=::~:~~~~~~-~~~:J!

Committee Appointments
~~~ f%1:6~~-~:-~~~--·-:·.:·.:·.::·.·.::·:.:·.:·.·.:::·.·_:·.::·.:~.- ·_·_·_·_·_·_·_-_·_:·.·_·_:·.·_-_::·:_:::·.·_-_:::·_:::::·_::::·.::::·.::::::::::3"i9; 41 i
of Committees)
Reports
Committee
807
Lodge(SeeNo.Reports
Conejo Valley

~h~~::!i -·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2g~
of Lodges
Consolidation
~=~ ~~ ~a~~eC::~tt~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
Lodges Listed
Constituent

Co~~2=~r~~;~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::Jn
::::::::::::::::::::::: l~t
Co~~~:i~!~:~~=~~~?::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Contributions

Constitution Observance

Christmas and Entertainment Reserve·-------------·----·-··------·-----····----·······----·····----··-···· 404

Co~;~~i~~f~ : : : : : : ·: : : : : : : : : ·: : -: ·: -: ·: : ·: :·: : :·: : : ·: : : : : : ·: : :·:·: :- : : : : : : : : :~;~ ~gi

Correspondence Committee
~~= ~~t~i~--~-~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~
Home
Covina
2

~:~~n~f r:>:re~~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
~~:~::I ~~~~~~ i::irih~ti~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~b~
0
Re~~~~ Master's Re'Commendation.. ...............................................-----·------··------·-·-· 30
Cred;~~~J:.tiR~··;;f~;itt~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::--~~j

~:rie~~~~~:::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : i?!

De~~at!£:7e<l

Contributions.. __________________ __________________________________________ __ ................. _ 403

&~?'.~===~~=== := :: : :::: :::: ::::::::::: :!?
k~~~~~ioPr~Ien?:and

Master......... -------·-----·--------------····-·-······-·········-················-· 53

~:~~::·:~~~~~~:~:: fff
~~~~:if~f :::••
Jif?1!~~;;:: •=•·····::::•••:. • ••==:~~======•• m
~~::~~. ::: ::::::••:··············· ::=:~=.:=.:::==~~ ,~1

~~~~ci::Ce GL~~d Lodge_·--------·-·--·-···---·---·-----------····--·············-·-··············------·~·- 80

Distribution Committe~-----·-------------··-··············-----····-····-·-·························-----··--·-····--···· 79

D£~r~:f~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 15?

l~~~~~:;:i::: '.~ :: =~:'.i~-=~'. ~

"-89
Grand Lodge Since Organization' '"".!-"-'..:;f"i"8-:A"L· •___58so·--·-·--··-···---Officers
Elected
--------··--·--·-· -.
Officers.....
of
Election
318
Endowment Board ··----·---·---·-·----·---·-·--···············-·····-······-···---··----···--·-···-·--··············
1L...

. ;:·:;;·;·::::;~ii!

~~~~§'~~;::;

Crocker Lodge No. 454

Ritual Code
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · :::=:.:•~·~ ~
~~~~·~=
Ci~her

L!~f~I;fi~~ ~~-~~~~-~~--_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_::·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:·_-_-_:·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:-_-_j(j.t; 35~

D

Decisions of Grand Master

~:~~e~/~~:~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~!

E

Entertainment Reserve Audit·-··--··-·-·····-···-····-·········-················-·······-··-------······-···---· 378
Eulogies
~keiJ Samuel Edgerton, P.G.M ............ ·-·-··---···-···········-·-------·············-·······'··-········ 259
vJU:,n~nu;::d ·-E~;i;·-i>:c:ii.i::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::: ~~j
Ejf,enses of Members
L!;J~~~:i p~~~~~~~ ..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3b~

Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations...... _____··-·········-·-·······--···-···--···----~·- 484

516

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

F

I
Inspectors

Pee for Restoration

:ii~~~~:~::::~~~~-:-~:~:~:::~:~~:~~:~:~~;~~~ ~

~l~~!~s:~~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
FlinanT Committee, Report oL.......................................................... ..........297, 303, 309
P!1:ignG~!d1[!!;!1L .•.•.....................................................................................~...••. 359

P

517

~~O:~fd=~e~i~di~ti~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

P:dse~f r:ci~~~Ex~endi~esLodge .............................................................................. 190

F!~1~;::~~-~~::::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~

In~~~~~:f~~cS~~~;~:::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 1Fo

~nstitutlon of Lodges, Report of Grand Secretary......................................................

89
nsurance, Report of COmmittee.................................................................................. 248
Investment Committee, Report of.................................................................................. 169
Investigation Report

IJ;~n~~lg~:~:~~~:::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~
J
J=~·~~t~e of, Grand Master's Comments. .................................... -··-·······

~fsYa~~~:~--~~='.~'.~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.:::·.::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::~::::::~~: 2~i

R:Jilsion of Installation Ceremony ............................................................................ 309
ctlons Visited ..................................................................................................24, 51
urisprudence, Report of Committee on ........................................................250, 281, 287
url

J

G

K

g:nerat Appendix ·····························································································-········· 411

Grand r!aplain, Devotional Service.......................---·················································

24

Koolau Lodge No. 801 Ooastituted..•..........................................................••......-....... 47

to

~~ ~~:~~!::!~:::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : j~

~:~ MaJ:r (S~~ l~~:~e~ =~···································································· 230

~ ~~~~;:~:~:=.::~=-~~=:~~:=-~~~~~:~:~~=~~~ 'H

GrievaMes, Report of Committee.............................................................-...........272, 279
ross emorial Fund Audit--·········-··············································-······-······-······- 360

L
Legislation Proposed
Section 8 (Titles)

. .: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 2~~

t:~::~:t :.~

Section 101 (Amwal Communication)

t:i:f~~~: :..~~~~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::.·_-.-:.-:::::::::::::.-:::::::::.-_·_·::::.·.·:::::::.~:::::.-.-.-.-.-.~ 2rs
t:i:w:i:it -~. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= 2~~
t:~:i~::it :.~~-~. .:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::=::::: J~
~f:i~::t .:.~~~ . :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3~
t:i:f~:1t ·--~~-~. .:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::: 2fo

Section 150 (Duties of Grand Secretary)
Section 157 (Judge Advocate)

H

Section 174 (Expenses of Members)
~lstoricalRMonuments, Report of Committee.............................................................. 239
H!!~sta= of Committee...................................................................................... 162

~[~~~*~::=::~:;::::~::;:0::~-:~:=~~::::::·::~~:::::~=~~i; ~
Audit

Contrib~ti~···:::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

Section 176 (Eif!:ofOtherOfllc:ers)
Seotion 192 (Standing CommHtees)

..

t:w~~:t ~~~~-~ ::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Section 199 (Committee en Lodge FlmmciDg)

t:=~t ~~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::== J1.

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Section 200 (Committee on Lodge Financing, Reports)

~~~=~:t :..~~~~-~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2ro

Section 203 (Committee on Correspondence)

. .: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 2~~

~~~::~~t ~-~~~-~~

Section 223 (Organization of Board)

t:w~~:t ~~~~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~i

Section 281 (Fees)

~r~=~~t ~~~~-~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Section 285 (Time of Payment to Grand Lodge)

519

Bingo
Resolution Presented ···-······················ ··························· ····-···-·····-···---··-· ·-- 72
Legislation ···-·····················································································-···-···-·- 301
California Freemason
Resolution Presented ···········-··-··········· ··························· ··············-········-·· -·-- 67
Legislation ---·······-·····································································--·'l>>&~ 298

Ci~~~1e:~~~
f::i.:Utec1 ·························································--·-·-····---~ 59
Legislation ...................... ... ........................................ ... .............................
........... 305
Duties of Grand Secretary
Resolution Presented ·······································································-··········-··-·- 77
Legislation .........................................................................................................••• 283

2~~

Eif::ie:ti~~
~~~=:ed ··················································································-··-··· 76
Legislation

t:~~=:t ~~~-~-~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
see:n~e!~1P:1~"
;,~1;1 ~~-~~~~-~--?.~~-~~~~~~~~~---··············································· 66
Legislation · •............................

Li~':n~i'.i~ster' s Recommmdatloo.......................................................................... 30

t:~~~~~:t :.~~~

..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Section 287 (Memorial Contributions)
Amendment Proposed .......................................................................................... 76
Legislation ............................................................................................................ 282
Section 343 (Uniform Code of By~Laws)
Amendment Proposed ............................................................................................ 28
Legislation ···-····-······-············································-············ ...... .. . .. ........ ...... .... .. ....... 288
Section 385 (Research Lodges)

............................................................................... 297
Section 387 (Scholarship Awards by Lodges)

t:~~~:t :.~~~~-~

...::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Section 432 (Multiple Membership)

~~

~~:i~~:t :..~~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Section 483 (Duties of Master)

~~d=~:t :.~~~~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Section 490 (Title of Past Master)
Amendment Proposed ................................................ ............................................ 34
Legislation ·······-··································································································· 283
Section 514 (Subversives Ineligible)
Amendment Proposed ···-····················································································· 69
Legislation ···-······-······························································································· 300
Section 527 ( Fonn of Application for Degrees)

t:rd~~:t :.~~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::: 2~§

Section 571 (Minimum Dues)

~~:~i:t :..~~~~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::: 2g~

Section 581 (How restored before two years)

~w=:t .:..~~-~

2g~

t:w=~:t :.~~-~

J~

..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Section 582 (How restored after two years)
...::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Section 685 (Regulation against gambling)

~~:i=~:t ~~:.~~~-~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~i

Annual Communication Date

~1f~~~~~~~~=~~~~::::::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : 2~i

···············-··-······························································ ··············-- 303
Fee for Restoration
Resolution Presented ·························· ·························· ·-···············-········ --- 65
Legislation -···································································································.294• 295
Fees for Publications
Resolution Presented ·······················································································-·- 77
Legislation ······-···················································································-······-···-·· 282
Investigation Report
Grand Master's Decision...................................................................................... 37
Report of Committee.............................................................................................. 281

Legislation ···-··············-······················································································· 290
Lodge Financing c.omm.Ittee
Grand Master's Recommendation.........................................................•..... _...._. 29
Legislation --····-···············-··-··-······················································-·····289, 290
Masonic Education
Resolution Presented ··········-············-··-····················································-······· 67
Resolution Withdrawn •.......•.................................................................•............... 78

MC::d 'lf::.~1:i=:ndat100.......................................................................... 32

Legislatioo ··-··-···-······························································································ 291
Memorial Contributions
Resolution Presented •......•.•..................................................................•...........•... 76
Legislation ----·········-·-···················································································· 282
Minimum Dues
Resolution Presented ............................................................................................ 64
Legislation
·········-··-········································································.293, 294
Multiple Membenhtp
Grand Master's Recoomiendation.......................................................................... 33
Legislation ···-··-··-······························································································· 283
Officers' Aprons
Resolution Presented ............................................................................................ 60
Legislation ···-···-·-·-··-··-·············································································3iYl• 308
Past Master Title
Grand Master's I>ecblon. ..................................................................................- 36
Grand Master's Recommeodation........................................................................ 34
Legislation ··········-··-······················-··························································--281, 284

Phi{=~~~ii~~n':d ......................................................................................62. 63

Legislatioo .......................................................................................................... 293
Political Activity
Resolution Presented ............................................................................................ 74
Legislation •.•.•.•.•.............................................................. ....................................• 251
Public Sc:hools Week Observaru:e
Resolution Presented ····························· ······················································-·· ···· 71
Legi.slation ···········-·-····················································································-····· 286

520

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Registration of Sojourners

R~~~~i~~~~~:.:.~~:~:~:.~:.:.:.:.:~:.:.:.:.~:.~:.·~~~~ ~

Ritual Shortening
.
Resolution Presented ···-···········-·······································-······-··············-··········· 60

Sc~Y!~~~;1A;;;J;-·-··-········-····································-···· ···-···-·········-···-··········~· 307

r:;;~~~~ ~~~-~-=::::=::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==-~: 36~

Sponsorship of Youth Organlzatlcas

·

521

M
Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley Clubhouse, Report of Trustees·--· ·····-··-··-··-- -·---·····--···· -·--- 242
~os Angeles Clubhouse, Report of Trustees.....•·-····--····--· ·-··--···---··· ·--· 246
rustees Listed --·-··-···························································-·············-··········-····· 419
Masonic Education
2

~~~~~ ~as<fei:i~~~t~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: M
Resolution Presented --··-··-··-··-····· ············································ ·-····-·--···-- - 67
Resolution Withdrawn ·---··································-···············-···-··········-················-·····

r:;;~~~~ ~~~--==::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

78
~asonic fpstorlcal Monuments, Report of Committee....................... ....................... 239

f;~~fa~~ste~:~-~~~~~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~g

~1~~i~i"i~;t;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g

Stated Meeting Date

•

Subversive Activities
Resolutions Presented -·······-··························-··········---················-·········-······-68• 69
Legislation ·····-·············-······-·•········-·········-·-······-·----···--·---·-··················299• 300, 301
Third Degree Proficiency
·
Resolution Presented ···············-·····-·-·····---····--···-·-------·-·--·-----······-············-·····-··· 62
-Ti~g~s/p~~b·t~ ~d~g~--····-······--··-·--·-· ·-·----·----····-·-----·-··;·················-···· 285

Tr~Ii~~;c; 1:.~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
r:~f;1:it~:i p~~~~~~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·: 2~~

Uniform Code
·
pi-and Master's Recommendatlan.•...............................................................-..... 28
Vis~:sJ\i~n ·······-·-··-··························-·---·-······--·-----····--- ----····'····-·····'"········'"··::.. 288

r!;f~~W! P~~-.:::::::::::::::::::.:·:.·.·_·_:·.-.·.:::·.:·:_·:.:·.·:.·:::::::.·_:·.·::.·:::.·.:·_·_-_·_·_:·::.:·:.::·.::::·::.IM: 2~!

=

Lil>rary aod Museum

·

~~i:..~.:~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Life Memberlhl&,Raoluticas

~=:l~-----~-~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

L'e':ir1M!st er's Recammendat1on............................................................................... · 30
gislatlon ·······-··-··-·-····-····-···················--·-·-······--················-···-·····--······-··-··- 290
List of Constituent Lodges.••-··········-····························-·-·······-··········-·······-··--···-···· 464
08

1~ 01dn~ttee--·-··-···--·---·-··-·---·--·····-····-··--: ..............................-....... 176

r.,!and Master'a Recommendaltion...............-···········-····································-···29• 30

gislation ·······-··-······-········································-········-································-····· 290
Lodge Funds--lnvest ment and Expenditure, Report of Committee........................
..•. 229

Lod~~abetic~l List ·-····-··-··············-················································-·······················• 504

e~tf~~~~~~i~~:~~~{.~:~~~~ 1

Los Angeles Masonic Hall, Report of Committee...- ..••.•.••.•.. :........•.....•••.•-···-·····-·· 309
Luckenbach Fund Audlt.---··-··-···········-···-····-··"···-·····-·········-~---~·-···············•····· 355
Luxembourg, Grand Lodge of, Recognition Withheld... _.......................................:: 190

M:~~!!!~ H!~i" Report of Committee............................ :........................................... 162

Report o~ Endowment Board.................................................................................... 122
Report of Superintendent, Covina............................................................................ 118
Report o f S.J':erlntendent, Union City...................................................................... 115
S eP?rt. o
rustees.................................................................................................... 110
Ttatistics on Residents and Costs............................................................................ 402
. R~~~l~~~o!ppointed ···-··-············· ·····-·-············ ···················· -·-······-··-······ -·- 317
frand Master's Recommendation......•-··········-········ ···················· ·-··-··--31
Maso:~i~a~~~s &d~~-~t·b=;f~;fP~d············-·········································--= 291

:~:~~st~--~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= ~~1

g>mments of Grand Master·--··- ··-·-··-·--····· ······-····--··- ··-··-··-·-··--· ·-- 20
Hontributiona Through Lodges..·-····· ·-··············-··- ············-··-···· ·····--······-··-- 135
onor Roll ···-··········-··················-······-·····································-····-···-··---······- 135
~embers and OfBc:en, 1961-62..................................... ·-·-····-··-··-·· -··-··-··-··--417
p em orials_ -·-··---··-··-··························-·····-··-································-··········-··········· 128
roe1amation of Grand Master.................................................·-·-················-·······- 53
~eport o~ Board..---·-··----·····················-····-·····---------··--··---- 122
ern;is o MelJ!bera.······-·-----··········--·····-······-··-·-········---·-·--·---····- 127
Masonic Information
•

~~~~t ~t~;sm~~-~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~

~ast~r ~jso~httendanL~---;d·-·······-·-·-···-···--·-··-···-·-··--·-····-----······-··-··-· ·-·············-····· 227
eeting Cac b anges 1st by Grand Secretary................................... _ _ _ 85
t1:g:~~i ontri utions by Lodges..........·-·---······ ···.-••................:.:.____ -464
p
. .
.
.
. .
.
: Anblysi!dby Grand Sec:retary_________ _.........
· ·---~-...86. 87
Ta ulat
by LodgeL---····· -··········-····-··· ·-········-..·······-············..···········-·········· -464
Memorial Contributions ···-······-··-···· ··-····-····-····- ··-··-··-----···- ··-······-'·····-· i28

~::~l~ f:r;~}! ("s;~·D;ii£;;;;1;·M;;;;;i~·M;~:r;;i~r·-····························· 252

lVlerit Roll ·······-···············-··············································-············-,··--······:................... 154
Message of Grand Master·--··-··-··-··--~:.::..;..::-_.:........~·-··-··-··-··-· -~---·- 14
Mileage PaJCents
··
··
·
· ··· ·· · ··
·
·
.Report
Committee..............·-······-··-····-··-·····-·-·····-······--··-····-·········-··-· 228
~::Jlati:: pf Pa~ents.............:..... _...:...::;_:..:.... :·:::·:-·::.:.:~......... _.............:_____ 420
...Legls~t:lon ~~-~~-- ..:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-::::::::::::::::: 3h~
Minimum Dues

r:~f;1:i~:i p~~~~~~~

2~:

·. ·~·-·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::···:::::::~~=::::_:~::::.:~:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::~::::

2:

..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Mci;r-eno Valley Lodge No. 804
.
. . .. ·
· . . . · . . . __ ·

•

522

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mg~~d ~~&.nmenu...................-...............................................................26, 32

Resolution Presente d ···-··-······································································
················· 33
Legislation -·-·-·-··- ··-··-····· ··········· ···-···············································
····-·-····- -··· 283

N
Necrolo gy, Report of Commltt.ee....•.•........................................._ ..............
.•.....•.....•...• 252
New Lodges
Charters Authori zed ..............................................................................
.................... 208
Constitu ted ·······--·-·····---··-············-············································-······
················· 47

rx::c:~:{i~-~-~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ii
0

Officers' Aprons
Resolution Presente d ······-······--·-·-----------·······---------·-··························-·····
············-···· 60
Legislation ···················-·······---··-·····-··--····--·--------····---···--··--·-··---··········
··············307, 308
Officers of Grand Lodge
Appoint ment of for 1961--62.....................
·-··-··--···· ················---··········-·····- 318
Attenda nce from Other Jurisdictions.......--------·---....................................... ..........................
79
Election of -·····-··-· ···--··-··· ·········-- ----····-· ·····················--·····-··········
Installed for 1961--62.•..........•..•...............................................................·····-··········-·· 318
Present at Communication................................................................. ................... 320
....................... 7
Since Organiz ation ··············--·····················-······-········ ······------···--···----·-·--·-------·-··--·· 489
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles. Report of Committee..........................
................ 300
Opening of 112th Annual Ccinmunication.......................................
........................... 7
Oration by Grand Oracor..............................................................................
................ 198

p
Past Grand Masten

~~~e~~n~ ~~°:"~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 48~

Visitors at Communication••......... -····················--··················-·······
·-···················- 79
Past Masters
Necrol~y Report- ·--·-··-·· ··········· ·······-···········································
Grand Master's Dec:ision............•................. _....•.................................. ···················· 261
........34, 281, 283
Grand Master's Recommendation..................---·········· ·--··-··-·········-······Legislation ........................................................................................... -····--·········-···· 34
..................... 283
Paymen t of ContrlbuHons
Resolution Presented ···-··········-······························································
················· 76
Legislation .................... :.............................................................................
.............. 282

Pa~:~~
t1~Lp!.~~e~~de~~--······················-·······················-··········································· 76
Legislation ···········-··-······-················

Pait of Members

······································································· 303

~~~~t;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::: ~~g

T:.=ti°c !n
Per Capita Cost of Homes Operation..................................................
......................... 402
Per Capita Paymen t by Lodges....................................................................
................ 464
Perine Endowm ent Fund Audit.....·-··········-··········································
························-· 357

Ph~::~~'::l~~~~t~d ·······-··················································································-62, 63

Legislation ···---····················································································
··················· 291
Policy and General Purposes. Report
of Cammlttee .......................................
.....284, 287

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

523

Political AcUvtry
Report of CommU 1tt ___..--·-..- · ···-- .. ..
... .. . -....... .. ....-·. .. ... __ .. .... ...••. .. ·--- 248
Resolution Prescntt d
·-··--····· ···-·········-·········· ············ ······-··-· ·······--· 74
Legislation ·-····-··--······-···-··························--······················-··-·······-·
··················· 251
Portraits of Past Grand Masers , Grand
Master"s Comment&.--------·-------·-·--·-·---·-····
25
Proclamations
Constitu tion Observa nce --·-···-- -·········· ··········· ··········· ···········
De Molay ·-··········· -··········--····-·····--··----·---------------------···------··-······---···················-····· 54
··············-····· 53
Masonic Homes Endowm ent Meotli......·-·········································-········
············• 53
Public Schools Week....... -------··---------------------·············-······-·-··············
·--·-··-·--··-····---- 52
Proficiency, Third Degree
Resolution Presente d ----•·-·- ···-·-····· ··········· ··········· ··········· ···········
··········· ··· 62
Legislation ----·-·- -----··· ········· ········· ········· ········- -········
········-····· 285
Public Schools
Dedications ···························---·····---········--·-··-----···--·--- -------- ------····---·
-------·---------------· 47
Grand Master"s Comments·---···-······-········-·---·-···-··-··-··------···----------------------------··---··· 19
Proclam ation by Grand Master----------------··----------------------·-··-----------------·---------------·· 52
Resolution Presente d ·----··-· ---·-···· ·-········ ·-······-· ·····-··-· ··········
·········· ·· 71
Legislation ···--··-·--·-···---···~-·-·••··········•·····························•
··············· 286

R
~~~~:~na~fdF=~:!{f:l:S-·-··-··-··-·········-···- ··········-···-··········-·····-····

48
Report of Committee·--·---········-····-····-····-····-·--·--··--·-···-----···-··-···---·---··
····---·-·-············ 189
Recognized Jurisdictions ·······················-··························- -··········-··-·-·· -······ 499
Recommendations of Grand
Master................................................................
27, 283, 287
Registration and MileaQe Payments.·--··--------------···-·-·--···------ ------------Reidenbach, Clarence, Grand Chaplain, Devotio nal Service· -···········---------··--·········-· 420
···-········ ·········· 10
Relationship Between Temple Association and Constitu ent Lodge
Report of Committee.. ·-··--······-···-···-············-·-···-·····-·----···············--··-------····--- --········· 229
Reports of Committees
Board of Control.. ......................................................................... ________
_____________________ 148

~~~~:Jes···::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::: ~~~

Charters ···-······-····················································-····--······-···-·······
····················· 207
Code Commission ·········································································-····
Columbia Temple····················································· ············ ··········-· ···············-·--· 240
·-··-·····Combined Committees ·································································~······-.·-·· ···-····· 241
········-··· 287
Commercialism .............
.......................................................................................
167, 287
Constitu tion Observa nce ··················································· ············
-·····-···· ·-·-··-··· 191
Correspondence ..........................................................................................
·-··-······ · 209
Credentials ············ ············ ············ ············ ············ ·······-···· ··---······
-···-··--- -·-· 227
De Molay ··················································································-········
Distribution ...........................................................................................······················ 187
..................... 157
Finance ••......•.•.......•..........................................................................•........
297, 303, 300
9

~an~ ~.:~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~ri

Hlatcrical Monume nts .............................................•......•.....•.....................
...•.•...•..•. 239
Insurance -·---·- ··-·································· ·························-·············
Investment •....••......•............••..................................................•..............······················ 248
.....•............... 169
Jurisprudence ----··-···· ·-·········· ············ ············ ············ ··························
·251, 281, 287
Library Commissioners •..............................................................................
.......•..... 221
Lodge Financing .•...•....•.........................................................•...........
......••••............. : 176
Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley ·······-··············-·········································· ··························
················-· 242

M~ni~nlj~~tk;i·:::::::::·.:::::~.:-.:·.:·.::::·::.·.:::·::.::·::.::~·-·:.::::·:.:·.·:.·.:::::·.:::::·:.::::·.:·.:::::::·.::::2ii ~~

Masonic History ••..•...........•...............................................................
Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board.......................................................................•... 162
Masonic Homes Trustee s..................................................................... ..................... 122
........ : ............ 110

524

· . PROCEEDINGS OP THJ!.

Masonic Informatica --·-·----··-···················································•·-········-·····~ ·234
Memorial Temple Truatees..·-·-······-··-················································-··-······-··-· 152
Necrology --·-··-··················-···················································· ................................. 252
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles............................................................................ 309
Pay of Members........................................................................................................ 228
Policy and General Purposes..............................................................................284, 287
Public Schools ···················-·····························································-······················ 184
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges......................................................... _......... 189
Relationship Between Temple Assodattca and Comtttuent Lodge...................... 229
Retirement Plan ·······-······························································································· 194
Ritual ........................................................................................................................ 302
Scholarships -·····-··-··--·-··-··-···--·-·· ·································· ·······················-·-· 214

~ilx°::::S....:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
0
R~~d
t~!~!r!-Devotlonal Service...-·····························-··················~·-··- 10
Grand Lecturer--··-··--··-------·-················--'······ ·······················-··-···· ··-· 107
Grand Master··-··-··-·-- -·--·---··············································-··········-·- 14
Grand Orator -··-··-··-·--··----····-····· ································ ·····················-·· 198

g~~~ ¥~:!!:!r ··:::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

RA.i;:~d:~!ek~~!?e
~----··-·--·-······························································-- 221
Roster of Attendance..................................................................................................

420
Research Lodges
.
•
Central California Lodge Conatltuted...................................................................... 47
Resolution Presented ···························-··································································· 65
Legislation ................................................. ...................... ..... ... ... ............. ........ ......... 296
Reserve for Additions and Replacements
Audit .......................................................................................................................... 375
Contributions Listed -·-··-·-······-······································································-····· 464
Reserve Fund Audits.......:..............................................................................................375
Residents at Homes
Covina --··---·-··-··---··-··-····· ···································································--·· 400
Union City ................................................................................................................ 391
Statistics ·······-······-······-··---··-··············································································· 402
~:~~~!~~~~Ai!~~f"·························································:····················· 362
. Presented ·-----·-·-·-··················· ···········-····················· ··········:..................... 59
Withdrawn --·-··-··---··-··················································································-··· . 78
Restoration, Fee for
.
Resolution Presented ................................................................................................ 65
Legislation ·--··-··-·-_._.··-············· ·--··········-·······:........................,............~ .........• 294
Retirement Penatoa Phm
·
Report of Committee ···-··-·-··-·····································································:..:..•,.. 195
Appropriation Budgeted •..:.•••••••••..:....................................................:........ ~ ......311, 312
Rio Hondo Lodge No. 800 Constituted.•...............•..............•................:......;,......:...•.•, 47
Ri·tual Committee, Report of..•.:..............................................................................::,...• 304
Ritual, Shortening of
:
Resolution Presented ••..:...................:...................:..... :............................................. ..60
: .Legislation · .................:..•.........•...............................................................................•. 306
Roll Call .:.........:...........................................................................:.....................;............. . 7

s
Scepter Lodge, U.D.
Instituted .................................................................................................................... 91

Sc~~j~~4,ti~Coa~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::: ~~

Scholarships .

..

.

.

.

.

525

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

·

..

·

;·~:~l~ti~~. ~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

·Legt$1ation. ...,_......- ••- ...............,. •••...•..."......... ,............................-• . ··-····. .:•.•.·:. ••••-;. •...•.:.~,; •• . :••. :3;C>2

Sessions of Communication

¥:i~t~ ~~;?~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::= 1~~

Tuesday Afternoon ·····-····-·-······-··-·•-•·····················-·····-··-··························- 198

~~~J~alf!!~1:!n.~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~Pi

Thursday Afternoon ···-··-·-··--·-··-·-·-·-···-··-··---...--··-·-~--- 281
Friday Morning ...........................................................:.......-~................................. 309
Friday Afternoon ..................................................................,;.....-........-_,.....,,....- 320
Simi Valley Lodge No. 806
' · ·
Instituted ···-····-·-··-··········--················-··········-·············-··-··-······-··-·-~·-·······- 90
Chartered ···---·-······-······-·-··-·· --········-··-··-············· ·-··-··-··--------··-··-· 208
Sok=rsof
194
Resolution Presented ···········-··-··························-··-··--.........................~··-··---- 73
Legislation ................................................................................................................ 302
Special Appendix -··-··-··-··-·-··········-· ·-··-······-········:·-·-··· -····-··------·-·-- 327
Special Ceremonies
···-······-··················-···· ··-··-··············-··-··-··-··· ···--- 47
Special Committees Reported
..............................................................................
........................ 415
Special Communications Reported ···············································-··············-···········- 47
Sponsorship of Youth Organizations

Committee·······-······-··························-~······························-··---··-··--·

Resolution Presented ·······-··············-··-··-· ·-··-··················-··-··· -·-··'"----- 66
Legislation ····-·····-·····································,····················-·-···.:..........,....._..._ _ 296
Standing Committees ···············-··-····-········ ····························-···· ··········-···-·-- 412
Stated Meeting Dates
.
.
Resolution Presented ....................................................................................__••_
28
Legislation ···-··················-··-······- ··-··-··-·-··········-······-···· ··-······-··-·
288
Students' Loan Fund Audit.......................-···············-············ ·-······-··········-- 361
Subversive Activities
·
Resolution Presented ·······················-··-···· ··················-··-······-·· ·······-···---- 69
Legislation ···--····························· ·······-··············-··········· ·····················-··
300
Supplemental Appropriations
. .
· ···':
·
Auditor's Report ......................................................................................... _..__ 345
Finance Committee Report ·······················-·······································~·.;.......- ••310
Grand Treasurer's Report ···············-·········································-···············-··-··-·- 81

a

T
TaxaUon, Report of Ccnumttee.......·-·············-··············-············--··············-··--... 230
Telegrams
· ·
·
Sent ............................................................................................................................ 9
Received ·······-·······························································-······················-······-·-··-··· 9
Testamentary Gifts ···························································································-······-· 128
The Gabllan Lodge No. 803
Instituted ·······-··-··········-······································-······················-···········-·-··--··· 89
Chartered ·······-··································-··························································-········· 208
:f!~ie ~f Gr~~~~ 797
47

Constituted........................................................................-

Ti~:ip~~~~-~~~~~~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~

Trial Manual
Resolution Presented ................................................................................................ 77
Legislation ···-··················································································-··········-··-··-·- 279
Trial Records
Reported by Grand Secretary..............................................................·-······-·---- 94
Grievances Committee Report ·······································-······-······-······-······----- 272
Trustees of Masonic Homes
Annual Report .......................................................................................................... 110
Appointed ···············-······················································-······································-· 319
Listed····-----········-·· ····························································-··············-·········..····- 418

526

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Trust Funds Audit ···············································-··-······-··········-······························· 353
Turkey, Grand Lodge of
Recognition Withheld -···················-·······-·---·····-···-····-··········-······-······-··-···-······ 191

u
Unappropriated Reserve Audit ···················-······························································ 378
Unfinished Business for 1962
Masonic Historical Monuments ............................................................•................. 239
Trial Manual ···-··-·-··-······-··················································································· 279
Trial Record 1S5f --·----··-····················· ·········-··············-······· ·······-······-··· 274
Trial Record 1726 --··-··---····················· ·······-··························-··········-······- · 278
Unfinished Busine11 from. 1960.••••.·-··········-··································-······················-··-· 85
Uniform Code
Grand Master's Recommendation ••..••...•..•..............................................................• 28
Legislation ·······-·-··-·-··-·--··- ··········-······································-······················· 287

v
Veteran Buttoaa Ptt.seoted - SO Year Buttooa...................................................-..... 97
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions....•.•........-............................................................... 51
•
Visual Aids
Resolution Presented ········-·········-··········································································· 61
Legislation ·······-··-··-······························-······························································· 284

w
Wadleigh Fund Audit ···········-························· ···························································· 358
Wilson, Lloyd EarL P.G.M.
Death and Funeral ···-·······································-·····-······- ······································· 322

~~r;h :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
y

Youth Organizations, Sponsorship of
Reaolutlon Presented ···············-·································.. ·····································....... 66
Legislation ·······································-···································· ······························-··· 296
YlllCCa Valley Lodge No. 802 Chartered. ................................................................... 208

