Charles Maurice W olJen.berg
• Grond MQ.ter 1929-1930

In tm little <:ity of Castrovill4, on the 13th day of March, 1873,
there was born to Louis Wollenberg aud his wife Fannie, a man-child
who was given the name Charles Maurice Wollenber and who was
destined to become the sixty-third Grand Master of Masons in Cali•

fomia.
This youngster was in his early youth taken by his parent~ to Pres·
cott, Ari1<>na, where he attended the public sehoots, and later rf!turning
to California, he matriculated at the U!liversity of California at Berkeley,
from which mstittition he was 1radtiated· in 1904 in pharmacy. Frcim
then: his activities have been val'iom. Aft« graduation he entered the
drug bUsiness at San Fn.~, and during the tragic days immediately
following the great fir.e and seismie disturbance that practkal'y de~
&troyed. the City of San Fl'a06~. he was sefected by the Red Cross
9ociety to take c™'rge of the great relief and rdugee camps, hastily ell·
tablished to ' care for the thousands of homeless people who ·were for a
found hi!
time JOre1y in need of food and shelter. In this work
forte. and so well did he perform the arduous duti.es incident to the
care of the poor, so manifest was his genius for orpnizati«i, that in
1908 he was appointe'd Superintendent of the San Francisco Relief Home,
an institution that maintains a staff of nearly two hundred physicians,
nurses, and other necessary employes, for the care of some seventeen
hundred of the dependent poor of the city.

In addition to the manifold duties incident
the superintendence. of
public relief, Brother Wollenberg for the past Eourteen years has been
a Director of the San Francisco Chapter of the Red Cross; for several
years was Presidel'lt of the Social Workers Alliance; Chairman of the
Budget Committee of the COl\'lrnunity Chest; a member of the Board
of Governors of the Commo11wealth Club of California; In fact, he is
and has for the last twtmty-odd years, been active in all public and private
1deavors that pertain to the welfare of the poor. H is friends marvel

CHARLES MAURICE WOLLENBERG
Grand Master
1930

.

.

Charles Maurice Wollenberg.
Grand Master 1929-1930

In the little city of Castroville, on the 13th day of March,_ 1873,
there was born to Louis Wollenberg and his wife Fannie, a man-child
who was gi¥en the name Charles Maurice Wollenberg., and who was
destined to become the sixty-third Grand Master of Masons in California.
This youngster was in his early youth taken by his parents to Prescott, Arizona, where he attended the public schools, and later returning
to California, he matriculated at the University of California at Berkeley', ..
from which institution he was graduated in 1904 in pharmacy. From
then his activities have been various. After graduation he entered the
drug business at San Francisco, and during the tragic days immediately
following the ·great fire and seismic disturbance that practically destroyed the City of San Francisco, he was selected by the Red Cross
society to take charge of the great relief and refugee camps, hastily established to care for the thousands of homeless people who were for a
time sorely in need of food and shelter. In this work he found his
forte, and so well did he perform the arduous duties incident to the
care of the poor, so manifest was his genius for organization, that in
1908 he was appointed Superintendent of the San Francisco Relief Home,
an institution that maintains a staff of nearly two hundred physicians,
nurses, and other necessary employes, for the care of some seventeen
hundred of the dependent poor of the city.

In addition to the manifold duties incident to the superintendence of
public relief, Brother Wollenberg for the past fourteen years has been
a Director of the San Francisco Chapter of the Red Cross; for several
years was President of the Social Workers Alliance; Chairman of the
Budget Committee of the Community Chest; a member of the Board
of Governors of the Commonwealth Club of California. In fact, he is
and has for the last twenty-odd years, been active in all public and private
endeavors that pertain to the welfare of the poor. His friends marvel

CHARLES MAURH " - w LI
Grand MatJter1930

' Ii : ~r;

at his activities and the fact that he never tires of doing for others and

..

'

never .loses his enthusiasm.
Brother Wollenberg's Masonic career began in 1906, in Starr King
Lodge No. 344. He received his first degree March 14; second, April
11; third, May 30, 1906. He became active in Lodge work, and passed
through all the chairs, being Master in 1913. In 1909 he received the
Scottish Rite degrees to the .32d in the San Francisco bodies No. 1 ;
served .as Venerable Master and Master of Kadosh; and in 1925 was
crowned as an honorary 33d. For years he was a director· and chairman of the Scottish Rite relief committee and also of the Sciots Foundation for convalescent children.
In 1917 Brother Wollenberg was appointed a member of the Board
of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, and was President of
the Board from January, 1919, until his election as Grand Master in
October, 1929. At the annual meeting of the Home Trustee.s, held October 17, 1930, he was again elected President.
On September 17, _1899, our prother was un1ted in marriage to Miss
Romilda Judell, who has proved to be most helpful and sympathetic in all
her husband's welf;re work: She is a woman of splendid ·c haracter and
greatly loved by her legion of friends. Two fine boys have been born
to the Wolle~bergs-Albert C., who is at present Assistant United States
District Attorney, and Harold, an electrical expert who bids fair ·to
become eminent in his chosen profession. Both these boys are. members of the craft.

I, JoHN WHlCHER, Grand Secretary of the M." .W.".Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its Eighty-first Annual
Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco on Tuesday,
the fourteenth day of October, A. L. 5930, and terminated on Friday,
the seventeenth day of October, A. L. 5930.

lln Westimvtty IJ~trrof,
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed the seal of the Grand
Lodge of the jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary, in the city of
San Francisco, this twentieth
day of October, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred Thirty.

PROCEEDINGS

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

111rrr nuh Arrrpteh flnsnns
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Eighty-first Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October I 4th, A. D. I 930, A. L. 5930
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October I 7th, A. D. I930, A. L. 5930

SAN FRANCISCO
Thomas C. Conmy, 509 Sansome St.
1930

GRAND OFFICERS
O P THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
OF

. FOR THE YEAR COMMENCING OCTOBER , A , L . 5930

Grand Master. .......................................................John Stewart Ross (384)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Deputy Grand Master........................................ Robert B. Gaylord (188)
Russ Building, San Francisco
Senior Grand Warden ............................................ Frank W. Mixter (424)
Exeter
Junior Grand Warden ................................................James B. Gist (202)
Security-Firs t National Bank, Guaranty Office, Los Angeles
Grand Treasurer.. ................................................ William P . Filmer (260)
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco
Grand Secretary ............................................................John Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Lecturer. ......................................................... Thomas ]. Baker (58)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Chaplain.......................................................... George D avidson ( 458)
649 West Adams Street, Los Angeles
Grand Ora tor. .............................................:......... Leslie E. L earned ( 324)
132 North Euclid Aven ue, Pasadena
Assistant Grand Secretary.................................... Frank G. Hobbs (531)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Marshal................................................ Henry G. Mathewson (514)
State Building, San Francisco
Grand Standard Bearer................................ Frank Augustus Frye (296)
850 Third St., San Diego
Grand Sword Bearer..............................................John Troup Moir (330)
Papaikou, Hawaii, T. H.
Grand Bible Bearer ............................................ Charles E. Glidden (310)
Mt. Shasta
Senior Grand Deacon........................................ Clarence H. Eckert ( 425)
H oltville
Junior Grand Deacon.................... ~..................... Edward A. Reinke (541)
780 San Luis Road, Berkeley
Senior Grand Steward.......................... Herbert Clifford Goldman (674)
209 Belmont Avenue, Long Beach
Junior Grand Steward ........................................ Frank Lamberson ( 128)
Court House, Visalia
Gra1,d Pursuivant...................:............., .................... Warren D. Gill (445)
42 E ast Main Street, Alhambra
Grand Organist................................................ Charles E. Anderson (374)
1717 Cabrillo Street, San Francisco
Grand Tiler.............................................................. Frank G. Watson (354)
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco

1J1rr.e anh Atttptth flasnns
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Eighty-first Annual Communication
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California commenced
its eighty-first Annual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, Van Ness avenue and Oak street, San Francisco,
on Tuesday, October 14th, A. L. 5930, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll ·call disclosed the presence of the following:
Grand Officers
M.· . w. -. CHARLES M. Wou. ENBERG............................................ Gralld

Master
Grand Master
R .. W .• ROBERT BRAINERD GAYLORD........................... .Senior Grand Warden
R .·.w. -. FRANK W. MrxTER ......................................... .Junior Graiid Warde11
V. ·.w.- .WILLIAM P. FILMER.................................................. Grand Treas1trer
V. '. W. · '.J OHN WHICHER .............................................. ! ........... Grand Secretarv
v. ·. w .-. THOMAS J . BAKER ........................... : ............................ Grand Lecture~
W. ·.GEORGE H. B. WRIGHT ...............................................:Grand Chaplain
\V. ·.WILLIAM C. HASSLER ........ .............................................. Grand Orator
W . · .FRANK G . HoBBS .............................................. Asst. Grand Secretary
w . · . HENRY G. MATHEWSON ................................................ Graiid Mar.s,.h;l
W . ' .CLAUDE H. MORRISON ................................ .... Grand Standard Bearer
W . ' . WILLARD CLARK ............................ ........................ Grand Sword Bea'rer
W. · · WILLIAM B . MEEK .............................................. Grand Bible Bearer
W . '.SOL DEVTSCH ......................................................Se11ior Graud Deacon
W . '.MARTlN L. GRIFFJTJL .....................................Senior Grand Steward
W . · · WARREN D. G1LL.. ...................... ~ ............................. Grand P11rs11iva11t
W.'.CHAs. E. ANDERSON .... ........... : ....................................Grand Organist
W .'. FRANK G. WATSO N ............................................................ Grand T iler
R.:.w·:·JOHN STEWART Ross ........................................ Deputy

15)

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Gone across the dark river
· And into the land of shadows."
The able ·committee on Necrology will report to you in detail the
list of our members who have passed to the realms beyond mortal
ken, but I will here mention the names of three distinguished brethren
who have held office in Grand ~odge:
Motley Hewes Flint, who served as Grand Master for the year
commencing October, 1905, was murdered in the city of Los Angeles
on the morning of July 14, 1930. Past Grand Master Flint for many
years was an active, energetic and most useful member of Grand
Lodge. During the dark days following the destruction of San Francisco and other cities of California by fire and earthquake, his genius
for organization and his untiring and intelligent labors in the work
of relief stand out as a monument to his zeal for Masonry and humanity, Later his ability for organization was displayed in his great
work for the Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes. In all, his
long life in California was devoted to constructive work.
John H. Logie, Junior Grand Steward, died suddenly in Glasgow,
Scotland, July 19, 1930. Brother Logie was a singularly sweet character, loved by all who knew him, useful as a man and Mason, utterly
without guile, and who always gave freely the best that' was in him
for the good of his fellow. men.
Rabbi Jacob Nieto, one of the best-known members of the craft,
died at San Francisco March 26, 1930. He had served the fraternity
and mankind faithfully for many years, and was a sturdy champion
for righteousness and decency i;'i the individual and in governmental
affairs. He was charitable of the weaknesses of mankind, condoning
the sinner but relentless in his condemnation of sin. As an orator he
was in demand, and gave freely of his time and talents not alone in
Masonic circles, but in the larger field of general social and civic
activities. Brother Nieto was Grand Chaplain of this Grand Lodge
for three terms-1903, 1904 and 1905. In 1906 he was appoin ted Grand
Orator, and at the special services in honor of our soldier dead in
1923 was the eulogist of the occasion. He was truly a good and useful
man.
"Thus passes life.
The joys of youth-bright beauties of the springGrow dim and faded; and the long, dark night ·
Of death's chill winter comes. But as the spring
Rebuilds the ruined wrecks of winter's waste,
And cheers the gloomy earth with joyous light,
So o'er the tomb the star of hope shall rise
And usher in an ever-during day."

GTIAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

I have requested Past Grand Masters Hervey and Sherman and
Inspector Oakley K. Morton to deliver brief ~ddresses in memory of
these our departed brethren, and they will speak to you ·in connection
with the report of our Committee on Necrology, W edne~day morning.
~o fill the v~cancy occasioned by the death of Brother Logie, I
appomted Worshipful J ohn T. Moir, Past Master of Kilauea Lodge
No. 330, to be Junior Grand Steward. Brother Moir is distinguished
in all affairs in the Hawaiian Islands, Masonic, social, moral, and in
business, and measures up full in all the attributes that pertain to
the making of good and useful men.

Grand Secretary
I want at this time to acknowledge my indebtedness to our be!oved Brother, John Whicher. Grand Masters come and go, but it is
mdeed fortunate that our beloved Grand Secretary goes on forever.
Giving his entire time to his office, he is brought in intimate
contact not only with the Grand Lodge officers but wi th our subordinate Lodges, and to him all bring their perplexing problems.
An untiring student of Masonry, thoroughly conversant with the
· Constitution, Regulations and Landmarks of our California jurisdictio1i, he is a fount of Masonic wisdom to whom we safely look for
counsel and advice to keep us clear of all entanglements.
John Whicher is known not only to the brethren of our California
Lodges, but regarded as one of the valuable Grand Lodge Secretaries
throughout our great country.
In February each year there is held a conference of Grand Secretaries in the City of Washington, D . C. California has never been
represented. May I recommend at this meeting tha t we send our
Grand Secretary to this conference in 1931. I kn ow that a personal
acquaintance with those with whom Brother Whicher is in correspondence will greatly add to h is efficiency, if such were possible,
and also redound to the benefit of the Grand L odge.
Grand Lecturer
To our Grand Lecturer, Thomas J . Baker, I will always be grateful. Ever considerate of the Grand Master and his comfort he has
made my journeys up and down this great State one co~tinuous
pleasure.
· We have traveled some thousand and more miles together visit!ng ma~y remote ~ections and always found, thanks to Thomas, all
111 readmess. Even on those journeys when not accompa~ied by the
Grand Lecturer, I found the path smoother due to the arrangements
made by him.

10

PfiOCEEDJNGS OF TllE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Bi-Centenary of American Masonry

"A~ the Representative of the Grand Lodge of California near
the Umted Grand Lodge of England, will you kindly transmit this
our response to your Grand Master and his brethren of the Craft.
"With my personal good wishes to you, I am;
"Sincer'ely and fraternally yours,
"C. M. WoLLENBERG, Grand Master."

On June 5, 1930, the following cablegram was received :
"Grand Master, Masonic Temple,
San Francisco, California.
"On the eve of the two hundredth anniversary of the first Grand
Lodge recognition of American· Freemasonry by constituting a Provincial Grand Lodge for New England, I wish to congratulate all our
brethren in the United States on the great Masonic progress they
have made. I reiterate my fraternal good wishes and sincere desire
for their continued happiness and prosperity. It remains my earnest
hope that the tenets of our Order may assist still further to strengthen
the bond of friendship and good will which so happily exists between
our two nations, and I shall continue to watch with sympathy every
endeavor on both sides of the Atlantic to promote those feelings by
"the development of Freemasonry in its purest and highest forms.
"ARTHUR, Grand Master."
Our reply was made to the Most Worshipful Grand Master, the
Duke of Connaught, through the Representative of the Grand Lodge
of California, the R. W. Capt. George St. V. Harris, M. C., as follows:
"Commemorative of the two hundredth anniversary of the first
gesture of the Grand . Lodge ?f England . toward sprea?ing the
light of Freemasonry m America, we received the gracious and
thoughtful message of your Most Worshipful Grand M.aster congratulating the brethren· of this country on the greit Masomc progress
they have made, and expressing his earnest hope that the tenets of
our ancient Institution may assist fur.ther to strengthen. t~e bonds of
friendship which so happily exists between Great Britam and the
United States of America.
"This message from your distinguished G~and .Master was !!mely
and appreciated by the brethren of far-off California and Hawau~ an.d
we extend to him and his thousands of Lodges and brethren their
fervent good wishes for continued constructive Masonic work, assuring him and them of our pride of ancestry and of our constant efforts
to so conduct our Masonic activities that our Mother Grand Lodge
will never by us be put to shame.
.
"We of the Pacific Coast affirm the good old ancient doctrine of_
Brotherly Love, · Relief and Tr!-!th, ~schew_i~g in ou: Lodges C?!ltroversial matters the while teachmg-our novitiates their duty as citizens
to maintain s~cial order and decency in governmental affairs. We
appreciate the fraternal affection of our English brethren, and particularly that the rulers of the Mother qrand Lodge have from t.he,
beginning manifested· a wise understand1!1g of the underlymg prmciples of Freemasonry by ~ot only affordi_ng but ~ncourag1ng democratic self-government on the part of their American brethren. We
indorse fully the sage statement of Brother Sir Alfred Robbins that
'If the ruler of the English State had display~d the same ~readth ?f
wisdom and understanding towards her children and kmsmen m
America as from the beginning was shown by the rulers of the English craft, there would have been no War of Independence.'

11

Our reply makes further comment unnecessary, but I would
testify through my own personal experience that our English brethren
extend the hand of friendship and brotherhood to their American
brethren at all times.
·
Visit to Grand Lodge of Arizona
The Grand Lodge of Arizona invited the Grand Master of California to attend the fiftieth anniversary of the chartering of Arizona
Lodge No. 2 by the Grand Lodge of California. As the Lodge organizing in the city of Phoenix in March, 1880, once owed obedience
to the Grand Lodge of California, I deemed it fitting to accept, and
requested Deputy Grand Master, John Stewart Ross, to represent us.
That he fittingly did so is indicated by the following extract from a
letter dated November 27, 1929, from M.'. W:. Amos A. Betts,
Grand Master of Arizona:
"Your own distinguished associate, the R ight Worshipful John
St~w~rt Ross, Deputy Grand Master of California, was of course the
principal speaker, and I assure. you that he acquitted himself in a
manner to reflect credit and glory upon his worthy chief and his
Grand .Lodge. In a very h.appy vein he conveyed your greetings and
best wishes to your old-time fellow-Hassayampers. We are sorry
to have been deprived of your personal presence but since we were
denied that pleasure we were happy that you se~t Brother Ross as
your representative.''
Conference of Grand Masters
On February 20, 1930, I attended, as 'your Representative, the
Annual Conference of Grand Masters of the United . States. I was
accompanied by M:. W:. Albert E. Boynton, Past Grand Master,
who is a member of the Board of Directors of the George Washington National Memorial Association.
·
There were forty Grand Juri.sdictions represented by thirty-six
Grand Masters and four Deputy Grand Masters.
··
The first topic discussed, that of Masonic Education, clearly indicated that no jurisdiction had developed a satisfactory programme
hut all were busily seeking, .as are we, for something that will create
increased interest in the membership and inculcate a desire for more
light.

12

PROCEEDINGS OF' T .H E

I feel that our programme, as adopted by Grand Lodge of Cali~
fprnia, plus the district officers meetings, which have been developed
since our last communication, are as satisfactory .as any presented.
The discussions on Lodge and temple finances indicated that
many jurisdictions were realizing the need of Grand Lodge control.
The amendment to our Constitution in 1928, by which investment in
Masonic temples was controlled by a committee of Grand Lodge,
received general commendation.
.•
Dual membership, and organizations whose membership is, based
on Masonic affiliation, were also discussed. Both are troubling many
jurisdictions. I will take. up the question of dual membership later
in this report.
Visits by Distinguished Masons
\Vhile attending the .conference of Grand Masters, Past Grand
Master Melvin M. Johnson, of the Grand Lodge of Masons of .the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, one of the most distinguished
Masons of the Eastern Section of our country, a Masonic authority
and the author of "The Beginnings of. Masonry in America," a book
found in all Masonic libraries, informed me that he would vis!f
California in March.
The time of his arrival was coincident with my visits to the
Lodges of the Sixty-second, Twenty-eighth, Fifty-third and Fiftyfourth Districts, and I invited Brother Johnson and his good wife to
accompany me and see something more of California than the usual
beaten path. We drove first to Fresno, then to Angels Camp, Yosemite and San Jose and. thence to San Francisco.
I am sure the Masons who were fortunate enoug~ .to ·hear B_rother
Johnson will not forget his visit, and I doubt if' he will soon forget
the ride from Sonora to Ange\s, his visit to .the "Mother Lode"
country, where Bret Hart and Mark Twain lived, and wbere the
latter served in various stations in Bear Mountain Lodge at Angels;
then to the southland, where they were shoyvn that section of our
State. Both in San Francisco and Los Angeles Brother Johnson left
·
his impression, and his visit will long be remembered.
On July 30th Grand Master Herbert C. Dean, accompanied by
Grand Marshal Balcom, Mrs. Dean and Mrs. Balcom, arrived in San
Francisco on the last leg of a trip around the world, during which he
had visited the Lodges under Massachusetts jurisdiction situated in
China.
Many of the Grand Lodge officers a-nd brethren enjoyed meeting
Brother Dean, and his word picture of Masonry in China and . the
situation of California Masons residing there was a strong argument
for dual membership.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

13

Brothers Dean and Balcom attended the reception. to the Grand
Master by' Spe'ranza Italiana Lodge, and I am sure they enjoyed the
coiitact with our Italian brethren-to say nothing of the raviolas. ·
Brother Dean's talk carried a strong undercurrent favoring· dual membership.an'd his hearers- gained more insight in things Masonic in China
than all their readings had previously produced.
Two hundred years ago the first regular constituted Lodge in
the American colonies was chartered by the Grand Lodge of England
in the Massachusetts Colony. If the brethren who have led Masonry
in Massachusetts through all these years measure up to Brothers
Johnson, Dean and Balcom, its leadership in things Masonic can be
well understood. We congratulate Massachusetts on its representatives who visited us this year. We wish them God-speed and hope
they will come soon again.
The George Washington Memorial Association
In company with Past Grand Master Albert E. Boynton, I attended the meeting of the George Washington Na tional Masonic
Memorial Association at Alexandria, Virginia, February 21 and 22.
One can not help being struck with the magnitude of the monument. ~t is truly a stupendous undertaking and when completed will
be the finest memorial of its kind in the world.
. I.ts cost ·of over three million dollars seems large, but when we
consider that it is not only a monument to the memory of Washington, but also a landmark of American Masonry, bringing together
the forty-nine jurisdictions of the U nited States in a com mon activity,
providing a meeting place and a shrine for American Masonry, this
can be over.looked, for in fact it represents less than one dollar for
each Master Mason in the United States.
It is hoped . to complete the exterior by FebrQary 22, 1932, marking
the two hundredth anniversary of the birth of George Washington.
Congress has created a committee to arrange that this date be fittingly
celebrated, and it is expected that the dedication of this monument
will be one of the outstanding features of the "Washington year."
To finance the completfon many ·of the jurisdictions are pledging
a support eq1:1ivalent to two dollars per member and in addition one
dollar for each initiate, for future maintenance. California has
pledged. one dollar· per member, payable twenty cents a year.. To date
we have made three payments and I recommend these contributions
be continued.
Visitations
During the year l visited some 102 districts, ·contacting with 427
Lodges, and in addition was the guest of 41 individual Lodges.

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The geographical extent of our Masonic jurisdiction and the
number of Lodges contained therein, preclude the pos.sibility of the
Grand '.Master attempting to visit even a majority of the Lodges
during the year, and it is unfair both to him and the other Lodges of
the State for an individual Lodge to expect his presence except on
unusual occasions.
I accepted invitations and was present at the 75th anniversary
of the following Lodges:
·
Morning Star Lodge No. 68, Stockton, December 14, 1929.
Ertterprise Lodge No. 70-, Yuba City, January 4, 1930.
Yolo No. 81, Yolo, January 24, 1930.
Bear Mountain No. 76, Angels Cainp, March 22, 1930.
·P etaluma ' No. 180, Petaluma, May 24, 1930. ,.
Joint meeting of Ione No. 80, Ione; Volcano No. 56, Volcano;
Amado.r No. 65, Jackson; at Volcano, June 1, 1930.
N;l.val No. 87, Vallejo, July 21, 1930.
The 80th anniversary of Benicia No. 5, Benicia.
They were all enjoyable and interesting, bringing back the days
of the early SO's, and the brethren of these pioneer Lodges are to be
complimented on the interest shown in commemorating the birth of
Masonry in their communities.
· On January 29th I installed the officers of Confidence Lodge
No.' 203 at Castroville. This visit was· of a peculiar interest to me, as
the minutes of January 29, 1872, when read, brought forth the fact
that on that day, fifty-eight years ago, my father was raised to the
degree of Master Mason, and on January 29, 1873, was installed as
Secretary of the Lodge. He was a member o~ the building -committee
in 1872 that built the hall we were then in, and the minutes contain a
resolution of thanks for his purchase of a carpet in San Francisco.
That carpet is still on .the floor of the hall and is just the age of your
Grand ·Master. Here, I truly felt the significance of the closing part of
our instaHation service, "May your children's children .c elebrate, with
jay and--gratitude, the annual recurrence of this auspicious solemnity."
On April 26th, accompanied by Mrs. Wollenberg, I sailed for the
Hawaiian Islands, and oi1 the 30th arrived at Honolulu after an
enjoyable and smo~th passage. There we were met by our. Grand
Senior "Deacon, · Brother Chas. C. Pittam, and Brother John A. Madden, Ins.pector of the One Hundred and Third District.
ffr~ther Pittam, with Inspectors Madden and Shepherd, had '
arranged our itinerary, and it was truly 'one continuous round of
pleasure. Ncit only did we have our official visits to the eight Lodges

situated in the four islands of this group, but for three weeks we
enjoyed continuously the beauties of the gems of the Pacific, and at
the same time the open-hearted hospitality of the Masons within its
borders. To attempt to thank those individuals who gave of their
time and hospitality, would be to name the officers and many members
of the Lodges.
May I ask you who represent our Hawaiian Lodges at this communication to take back to my brethren and their good ladies who
were so generous to Mrs. Wollenberg and myself, our "Aloha."
Everywhere, Lodges and brethren have been most cordial in
their reception to me, and I hesitate to mention any one event.
Yet, there were two receptions which I feel I might be pardoned
for mentioning. That of the brethren of Los Angeles on June 12th,
when a reception was tendered by the seventy-two Lodges 'at the
Shrine Auditorium, and that on October 13th, the Fairmont Hotel.
tendered by the Masons of San Francisco.
I would again tender the sincere appreciation of M rs. Wollenberg
and myself, not only for the courtesies extended on these occasions,
but more particularly to the brethren and their ladies of those Lodges
where on occasion Mrs. Wollenberg has accompanied me.

I .

T

'.

15

Lodges Constituted
Grand Lodge was convened by me for the purpose of constituting
Lodges a s follows:
October 11th at San Clemente-San Clemente Lodge No. 671 ;
Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
October 14th at Long Beach-Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674.
October 15th at Modesto-Modesto Lodge No. 675.
October 22nd at San Francisco-Far West Lodge No. 673.
Special Communications of Grand Lodge
During t he year Grand Lodge was convened on numerous occasions to lay the cornerstones not only of Masonic Temples but of
many public buildings. Without exception these 'meetings were well
attended and created interest in the community where held, particu. larly those ceremonies where the foundation stones of public schools
were laid.
" ··

By the Grand Master:
At Willits, October 28, 1929, to lay the cornerstone of the Masonic hall, a t that city, at 10 o'clock a. m.
At U kiah, October 28, 1929, to lay the cornerstone of the Union
High school, at that city, at 2 o'clock p. m.

1R

l'HOCJ~I<:IJINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At Lakeport, October 29 t 0 1
•
ay the cornerstone of the Cottrl
I "~ouae, at that place.
At Ventura Novembe 3 1929
·
Grammer schooi t th t .r '
' to lay the cornerstone of the
, a
a city, at 10:30 a. m.
.
At ~entura, November 3, 1929, to dedicate the M
.
at that city, at 7 :30 p. m.
asomc temple
At Needles, November 19 1929 to 1
M ason1c
· temple, at that city. '·
•
ay the cornerstone of the.
At Westwood, Los Angeles County March 27 1930 t d d'
the Masonic Cl b H
U .
.
'
•
' o e 1cate
u
ouse, mvers1ty of California at Los An I .
At South Pasadena Ap ·1 19 1930
:
. ge es.
South Pas d
M
.' h n
'
' to lay the cornerstone of the
a ena ason1c all.
plac:t Bell, June 13, 1930, to dedicate the Masonic temple at that
At Oceanside June 18 1930 t 1
'
'
• o ay the cornerstone of the Vista
U ·
h
mon sc oo 1, at that place.
. At Martinez, August 2, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the Masomc temple at that city.
plac:t Alturas, August 14, 1930, to dedicate the Masonic hall at that

Alta~t PaMsaden~, September 27, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the
ena

ason1c temple, at Altadena.

AttEthscalo1!1, October 4, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the Masonic
h a II , a
at pace.

By the Deputy Grand Master, John Stewart Ross:
At San Diego, October 26, 1929, to lay the
cornerstone of the
H b
H
er ert oover High school, at that City.
At Lynwood, January 4, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the El
mentary school, at that place.
eAt Sout:i Gate, Los Angeles County, January 25 1930 t I th
cornerstone of the South Gate High school at th t 1'
' o ay
e
At L M
a Pace.
.
al esa, March 29, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the Ma
sonic temp e at that city.
that ~itty~eedles, April 25, 1930, to dedicate the Masonic temple, at
. A.t Ca;pinteria, June 28, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the Carpinteria High school, at that place.

By the Senior Grand TVarden, Robert B . Gaylord:
At Hayward, May 17, 1930, to lay th
e cornerstone of the City
H a II , at that city.
By Past Grand Master, George L . Jones :
At Roseville, November 11 1929
V eterans 'M emorial hall, at that' city. ' to lay the cornerstone of the

17

Dedicating Masonic Club House, Los Angeles
A very interesting ceremony was that of the dedication of the
Masonic Club House of the University of California at Los Angeles.
The trustees of this Club are to be complimented on the very
beautiful building designed to meet the needs of the students of
Masons attending College.
There, as at the club house located at the University of California
at Berkeley, a splendid work is being carried on for the spiritual,
mental and social welfare of the students of Masonic families. And
in order that the brethren of the jl,lrisdiction might know of the advantages of these club houses, I issued a circular letter under date of
August ·l, 1930, as follows:
San Francisco, August 1, 1930.
To Masters of All Lodges in the Jurisdiction:
With a view to calling attention to the two splendid Masonic
club's being maintained for the benefit of students at the University of ·
California at Los Angeles and the University of California at Berke~
ley, I earnestly request that Masters advise their brethren of the fact
of these two clubs and of the benefits to accrue to their student children by affiliating with one or the other of them.
These two clubs are functioning in a practical manner, and every
Mason in our jurisdiction, having children in attendance at the University should urge membership. Co-operation on the part of the
parents is desirable, not merely for the success of the clubs, but for
the social and moral advantages of the students.
Our brethren should be reminded that these clubs are housed in
beautiful and comfortable buildings, and that the privileges extend to
the sons, daughters, sisters, brothers, nieces, nephews, and grandchildren of Masons. It has been said, and with truth, that the clubs
are havens for boys and girls who are away from home and home
influences; that they are places for clean social diversion, for relaxation from college activities, and where the homesick and lonesome
student may be associated with those whose business it is to serve
them and direct them and keep them happy.
The good hostesses who are in charge of our Masonic University
club affairs have been chosen for their peculiar fitness for the work
of looking after the young students; they have the happy faculty of
getting close to the hearts of the members; they know and can advise
concerning the many little problems that puzzle boys and girls-and
the Mason whose children are in attendance at either State University
would do well to encourage them to take full advantage of the privileges offered.
. I confidently rely on the Masters to convey to their membership
the above information.
Fraternally yours,
C. M. WOLLENBERG, Grand Master.
The trustees of both these clubs will report later on their activities
to Grand Lodi'e.

18

PHOCEEDJNGS OF THE

Restoration of Charter of Seal Rock Lodge No. 536
On the 24th day of September, Grand Master H utaff arrested
the charter of the above named Lodge. In his report to Grand Lodge
he stated:
"During the past ten months, due to the existence of two factions
who have embarrassed Masonry generally, the conditions prevailing
in Seal Rock Lodge No. 536 have been a source of much anxiety to
the Grand Master and other Grand Lodge officers.
"At my request, Brother Chas. M . Wollenberg, Deputy Grand
Master, visited the Lodge on February 6, 1929, as my representative
and endeavored, to the entire satisfaction of all concerned, to adjust
the existing differences. As a result of this conference and in an effort
to bring about a conciliation, the Worshipful Master resigned.
"After conferences with the officers of the Lodge, the granting
of special dispensations to reballot on candidates and to hold an
election to elect a Master caused by the resignation of the former
Master, it has been impossible to bring peace and harmony within the
portals of the Lodge, and the conditions seem to grow worse each
· month.
"I sincerely regret that the real offenders cannot be segregated,
thereby preventing the duty which I feel is incumbent upon me, and
it is only after careful consideration that, under date of September
24, 1929, I ordered the .arrest of their charter, and recommend that
this order be kept in force until the next communication of our Grand
Lodge; unless the incoming Grand Master shall in the meantime
become satisfied that the members of the Lodge are making a conscientious effort to uphold the principles of Masonry and work in
harmony. In which event he be authorized to return to the Lodge
its charter. In order that the property and business affairs of the
Lodge be properly conserved, I specially exempted from suspension
Brothers Walter Grant Campbell and the Treasurer and Secretary.
"Following is the text of my letter to the Master and members
of the Lodge:
·
"'To Milo Bohall, Master, and the Wardens and Brethren of Seal
Rock Lodge No. 536, F. & A . M.
"'Brethren: My attention was called several months ago to
grave violations of Masonic law in your Lodge. In the interests of
peace and harmony and in the sincere desire to bring about an amiable adjustment of ' the controversies existing, I asked our Right
Worshipful Brother Charles M. Wollenberg, Deputy Grand Master,
to visit your Lodge to ascertain the real conditions and facts. He
visited you and his overtures for peace and harmony, as well ·a s many
efforts on my own part, have availed nothing.
" 'Your Lodge is apparently .split into two factions and -bitter
feeling prevails. The followers of one faction are not allowing the
election of any candidate presented. by the opposing faction. This
condition is an embarrassment not only to the members of your
Lodge, but to Masonry in general.
"'The foregoing facts have been established through very careful
investigation. It is evident that under these conditions the usefulness

Gl{AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19

of your Lodge has been partially destroy.ed, ~a_rmony has danishe~j
and you are not enjoying the true Masonic spmt that shoul preva1
in your Lodge.
"'It is, therefore, ordered that the charter of Se.al Rock Lodge
No 536, F. & A. M ., located at the city of San .Francisco, be ~nd the
sa~e is hereby arrested and the work and busmess of the sa1? S.eal
Rock Lodge is hereby suspended until the next annual communication
of our Grand Lodge.
"'It is further ordered that the charter of said Seal Rock Lc:idge
No. 536 be forthwith delivered into the custody of Very Worsl11pful
John Whicher, Grand Secretary.
.
"'All moneys and property of said Lodge are hereby placed m
custod and control of Worshipful Brothers Gus Kra.mer, Max
Georg~ Wihr and Walter Grant Campbell (who are spec1ficalg ed
empted from this suspension) until the further order of the ran
Master or Grand Lodge.
•
"'Given under my hand with the attestation of the Grand Secretary and the seal of the Grand Lodge, this 24th day of September,
A. L. 5929.'"
Attest :
JoHN WHICHER,

Gus A. HuTAl'F,

Grand Master.
Grand Secretary.
This action was approved by Grand Lodge, with the further

proviso that:
.
"If within six months existing conditi~ns be ~ot remed1f d
the
satisfaction of the Grand Master, charges with a v!ew to t.he or. e1t1:1re
of the charter of the Lodge, be presented by him for mveshgahon
by the Grand Lodge.''
In accordance with these instructions from Grand Lodge, I held
a number of conferences with the officers, Past Masters and groups
of members and in November there was holden a summonsed meeting at the Masonic temple, attended by all the members of the Lodge

r'·

in San Francisco.
.
It was pointed out that 118 members of the L.odge were beu~g
deprived of their Masonic standing through the action of five o; .six
members. These five or six were named, and all matters pertammg
to the various factions were brought ·o ut.
Finally a pledge was given the Grand Master by all present and
a personal assurance by those accused of being the direct ~ause of
the trouble of their intent to live in peace and harmony with each
· nd ~n the 28th of November the charter was restored. I am
o th er, a
536 .
.
rk'ng in
is agam wo 1
pleased to report that Seal Rock Lodge No.
the vineyard of Masonry.
Funeral Ritual
I have heard expressions of commendation on the shortening of
the funeral service, and coupled with such commendation were
criticisms of the omission of the procession of the brethren and the
depositing by them of the evergreen.

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

20

P.llOCr~ JClllNGS

21

or-- 'l'HI£

Manytheir
pointp out that
. . of the brethren
to show
1 this is the on! Y opportumty
·
ersona respect to a d
d B
individuals, view the remains
d "f . eparte
rather; that they, as
L d
.
' an I it was done as a trib t b h
ge,
111
procession
no
add"t"
.
u e Yt e
1 lOna 1 time would be added
0
ceremony.
'
to the
I agree
deposit
· of th with this view ' and b erieve that the procession .and
d .
e evergreen a worth wh"I
1
respect to the departed and ·
C: an
imp~essive tribute of
recommend its restoration as part of this
service.
'
Petitions for Particular Jurisdiction
.
I received petitions from Temblor L d
and Maricopa Lodge No 434 f M . . o ge No. 477 of Fellows.,
· ' o
ancopa praying th t
1 ·
· · d" .
. '
a exc us1ve
JUns 1ctlon to territory immediate!
granted them.
Y adJacent to these Lodges be
Midway and Taft Lodges protest this and k h
as t at the present
situation be left undisturbed.
These four Lodges, situated in the oil fields of
are
county,
t"
.
· .but a few miles apart ' aild un d er concurrent J·uri d" Kern
111 either of the three 'C
• •
s 1c 10n residents
ommumt1es may pet"t"
· ·
Maricopa and Temblor Lod
I .
h I 10n m any of the Lodges.
munity, exerts perhaps uncon~~~o~s~1m t. at Taft, as the larger comY _an mfluence to cause petitioners
to petition Taft Lodges to th
result the two smaller L d e exc 1us10n of the others, and that as a
actually living within the ~o::~s losfe Fprolspective can~idates who are
nes o
el ows and Maricopa
I ask that the Committee on Juris r d
. . .
II
P u ence examme mto this controversy, and I submit to th
.·
.
em a correspondence ma
t
.
time, with a recommendation that th
..
'
?s, e c., at this
e pehtlOns of Maricopa and Fellows be granted.
Masonic History
.
Our Committee on Masonic History will in du t"
report showing
the work accomplish e d d urmg
.
e ime render a
t h e year.
. .
It is mdeed unfortunate that thi
·
when many of the pioneer Ma
sf wor~ did. not start years ago,
their stories.
sons
Cahforma were alive to tell

°

On my journeys this ye
r ·· d
the SO's and 60's and I
ar _v1S1te many Lodges organized in
books, minutes . ~tc anadways enJOYI ed looking over the o.ld record
'
.,
was near y alwa · t
k b
precaution taken to preserve· them N
I ys s rue
~ ~he lack of
wood and an easy prey to fire M . :ar y all the_ bu1ldmgs are of
way.
.
any ave lost th eir records in that

J:- small investment in a fire-proof steel cabinet would mean
secun t y for these priceless records, and I recommend that where the

funds of the Lodge do not permit such an outlay, the Grand Master
be authorized to have same installed at the expense of Grand ·Lodge.
I recommend the continuance of the Committee on Masonic History and the appropriation for same.
Masonic Library of Southern California
In April I received a communication from the Secretary of East
San Diego Lodge No. 561 calling attention to a circular of the "Masonic Library of Southern California, Inc." suggesting by way of
financial assistance a "contribution of one cent per capita monthly"
and asking if such a contribution could be made by the Lodge.
My reply was that such a contribution by a Lodge would be in
contravention of the provisions of Section 88 of the Constitution and
could not be permitted.
This led to a considerable correspondence with the President of
the Library, and finally a meeting at the library in Los Angeles.
There is no question that a Lodge could spend its funds for the
purclJase of books and maintenance of a lib.rary for the benefit of its
members, and that likewise several Lodges could unite in such an
acti.vity.
This library, however, is a private corporation, and although
organized by the Lodges of Southern California, it is no longer under
their control.
The Masonic Library of Los Angeles is a necessary institution,
and should be of great. value to the brethren of the southern part of
the State, and the programme of the Directors of the Corporation is
one that deserves support of the Lodges.
•
They recognize that the value of a Masonic library consists in a
great degree upon its accessibility to those who have the desire or
the necessity to consult its volumes.
Their present financial set up does not make this, the largest
collection of books on Masonic subjects in our State, as accessible as
they should be.
I therefore recommend that legislation be enacted at this cession
of Grand Lodge, enabling two or more Lodges to join in the Library
Association and providing for the su 1port of such Association from
the funds of the Lodge.
Dispensation to Form New Lodges
Shortly after the close of Grand Lodge last year I received a
petition for a dispensation for the formation of a Lodge at Willow
Glen in the county of Santa Clara. After a visit to San Jose, at which

23

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

time I met the Master or representative of all the Lodges in that
county, as well as Inspectors English and Wright, the dispensation
was granted, and Willow Glen Lodge U. D. will request a charter at
this session of Grand Lodge.
A number of other petitions were received from brethren in
Cudahy, Hollywood and Los Angeles, five in all, but after a careful
consideration of all the circumstances surrounding each petition, the
accessibility of existing Lodges to the homes of the petitioners, all
but one was denied.
The petition granted was for a Lodge located at Westwood, adjacent to the University of California at Los Angeles, and should
well serve this new community.
In one instance brethren of the Syrian race, mostly members of
New York Lodges, but now residing in Los Angeles and vicinity, was
denied as I feel it unwise to bring into being Lodges that are racial.

any outside speaker be present, the entire meeting to be given over
to the officers and the problems confronting them.
"In my judgment this is the best method yet suggested for the
proper education of the officers of the Lodges. A young man going
through the chairs will thus be fairly well informed by the time he
reaches the responsible office of Master.
"Frank and friendly discussion around a dinner table, directed by
an able Inspector, will accomplish much, and I believe t hat in a few
years the troubles which some L odges experience, due largely to a
lack of knowledge on the part of the Master, will be things of the past.
" I direct that this practice be at once established in every Inspection district, excepting those where the distance or modes of travel
between Lodges may render it impracticable."
This has resulted in the formation of many additional district
officers' associations, and wherever formed information comes from
both officers and our Inspectors of the increased interest that is
being developed.
These meetings have brought out the fact that the junior officers
of the Lodges, with few exceptions, have failed to interest themselves
in a11ything but ritual until just previous to their installation in the
;Master's chair. It is at this time we qualify them on Masonic law
under' Section 137 of the Constitution.
The incoming Master, taking over the control of his Lodge and
all its pl'oblems for the first time in his Masonic career, is forced to
hastily comb through the Constitution in order to answer the questions on Constitution and Regulations.
I believe better results could be obtained were we to qualify the
\Varden~, and thus reduce the number of questions to the Master.
In other words extend this examination over three years ancl
thus create continued interest in the subject.
To this end I propose the following amendment to the Constitution:
Amend Section 137 by addi.ng after "First Degree," line 8 and
after "Second Degree," line 11:
"And that he is thoroughly proficient in those portions of the
Constitution and General Regulations of the Grand Lodge which
relate to the government of a Lodge."
R.". W:. Brother John Stewart Ross has volunteered to compile
the laws cited in our digest, so that our decision would be accessible
to all officers in our jurisdiction, and I feel that if his very generous
offer, one entailing a search of our proceedings from the year 1850 to
date, is accepted there will be no excuse for the officers of a Lodge
not knowing our laws.

22

Officers' Clubs
Within the year I have received many requetss from Lodges for
, interpretation of questions of Masonic law and custom. With few
exceptions all could have been readily answered by reference to the
Constitution and to decisions heretofore made.
·
The number of letters received by the Grand Master, to say nothing of the large number that come to the Grand Secretary, in4icate
either the need of a revision of the Constitution so that the layman
can obtain the information required or the education of the officers
of the subordinate Lodges in Masonic law and custom.
·
With this thought in mind, on January 1st I wrote the Inspectors'
of the several' Masonic districts as follows:
"I take pleasure i11 handing you herewith your commission as
Inspector for the. year 1930, and with it I take occasion to observe
that in many Inspection districts a most commendable practice is in'
vogue of holding monthly or bi-monthly meetings attended by the
Inspector and all the officers of the Lodges within his district, the
purpose being the discussion of Masonic law and custom as well as
ritual.
"No better p'..an for the Masonic educatio~ of Masters and Wardens particularly and other officers generally has been suggested, and
I heartily commend it to all Inspectors.
"Each Inspector should arrange· to meet the officers of all the
Lodges in his district, at dinner at least every two months, and more
frequently if circumstances appear to justify or demand it. Such
gatherings will afford the officers of the several Lodges opportunity
to become acquainted with their fellows during the service of the
dinner. After the dinner, from one and half to two hours may be·
taken up with discussion of Masonic subjects concerning basic and
Constitutional law, Regulations, and ritual: At no such time should

24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

rnOCEEDINGS OF THg

Degree Teams
While I knew that many degree teams were operat'ing in the
jurisdiction, it was not until I read a leaflet originating in Los Angeles, headed "The Association of Masonic Industrial Clubs-A
Confidential Message from the President," that I discovered a most
amazing and highly irregular and unmasonic method of operation.
This leaflet disclosed many disturbing facts: First, that some thirtyfive industrial organizations were represented by Masonic clubs or
degree teams; second, that while many promises were'made as to the
future activities of the Association in the way of social events, entertainment, publicatiol\ of a magazine, employment bureaus, relief, etc.,
a most specious promise was made concerning the future financial
welfare of the brethren who should join, by "pooling savings and
investments, whether large or small, under our plan of centralized
organization under the direction of competent trustees or managers,
whereby the individual member would receive the full- profit of his
investment." And then goes on to show the highest form of investment is in the "Southern California Trust Estates; so e.,ach· member
of the Association of Masonic Industrial Clubs is to subscribe for at
least one unit of beneficial interest ·at $25.00 per unit, which not only
takes care of yo'u r dues in your Club, but gives the member an assured
income of 12 per cent on the $25.00."
I summonsed the President and other officers (all Past Masters)
of this Association to meet me, and as a result .cif this interview, on
November 30, 1929, it was disbanded.
Another serious breach of Masonic custom, if not indeed of law,
was reported to me in March of this year, that two degree teams representing organizations which required as a prerequisite to membership that their petitioners should be Master Masons, were conferring
degrees in Lodges and immediately following the ceremony of conferring the third degree presenting to the newly-raised brethren, post'aated six ~10nths, petitions for the d~grees in their respective organizations. On investigation I found the facts to be as reported, and all
such petitions were returned to the deluded applicants and destroyed.
Other complaints came to me from Inspectors and Masters concerning the activities of degree teams, and I deemed it necessary to
order the discontinuance of the certificates of proficiency heretofore
permitted to be issued by Inspectors, a copy of which order, which
was directed at Inspectors and Masters, is as follows:
"It is well-settled by our Constitution and Regulations that the
Master may invite any qualified brethren to confer a degree, he of
course remaining present. This responsibility is committed entirely

25

to the Master and it is his duty to see that the work is performed
's trictly according to our ritual. The same is true· whether one or more
temporary officers participate.
"There have· grown up in some parts of the jurisdiction wh.a! ~re
known as 'degree teams,' organiz.ed for the express purpose of v1s1tlng
Lodges other than those to which. the membe~s _of such teams a_re
members and conferring degree~. Here\ofore, in order to assist
Masters ~f Lodges in determining the qualification~ .o.f members. of
the team and thus relieve the Masters of the respons1b1hty of examining the degree-team members as to their qualificat ions, the <;irand
Lecturer was authorized to delegate 'to Inspectors the authority to
examine and issue certificates of qualification to the teams, after due
examination by the Inspectors. This practice is now ordered to be
discontinued.
"On and after this date, if and when any Maste: .reque~ts or
permits any brother or b_reth_ren to confer o~ to parhci_Pate in the
conferring of any ·degree in his Lodge, excepting the officers of another Lodge holding obi;d!ence to our _Gra~d Lodge, he a~cepts the
responsibility of determining the quahficat10ns of sue~ brother or
brethren and of seeing that he or they conform to our ritual. L'.nl~ss
and until the Master has so satisfied himself he cannot lawfully invite
or permit any brother or brethren, excepting officers of regular
.Lodges, to participate in degree work.
.
.
. "Please take due notice of the law to which your attent10n 1s
herein called.
"Dated March 31, 1930."
I recommend that Grand Lodge give this subject careful consideration.
Suspension and Restoration of a Master
Under date of December 11, 1929, I suspended from office the
Master of Anaheim Lodge No. 207, for reasons stated in the following lett~r, the original of which was directed to Darrol D. Webb, then
Master of said Lodge:
"For gross violation of Masonic law you are hereby suspended
from the office of Master and from the exercise of all powers and
duties of the office of Master of Anaheim Lodge No. 207, F. & A. M ..
of the jurisdiction of California.
"At your stated meeting for November, 1929, you caused a ba,llot
to be taken on seven petitioners collectively. A ~lac_k .ball appe~rmg,
you directed an individual ballot to be had on. an indi_vidual candidate.
As a result of this ballot you declared a candidate reiected. You then
proceeded with balloting until all the petitioners were balloted upon.
A recess · was then declared · during which time several brethren
entered the Lodge room and 'others retired, in the proper be)ief that
balloting had closed. During th~ if!termissioi:i your attention was
called to Section 104 of the Constitution. You declared the ballot on
the theretofore rejected candidate null and void and ordered another
ballot thereon, which appeared clear; whereupon you promptly de-

"26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

clared the candidate elected, and at a meeting of the Lodge held on
November 8th, you caused to be conferred upon him the first degree
of Masonry.
"Under date of November 12, 1929, you were ·officially advised
by the Gra~d Secre.tary that your action in taking the last ballot was
null and. v01d; but m contempt of this notice you insisted in having
the candidate coached and prepared to receive· the second degree.
"Letters recei_ved from yqu by the Grand Master indicate that
yo~ are a man of mtelligence, an~ it is difficul! to conceive how your
act10n subsequent to your declarmg the candidate rejected could be
other. than a wilful violation of Section 104 of the Constitution, and
the d1s_regard by you of the laws and regulations of the Grand Lodge,
by which you as Master are governed.
,"Your reference in a letter to a brother as 'a disgruntled mem.
ber, and the manner of your addressing him and another brother in
the presence of the Deputy Grand Master, on the evening of December 2, 1~29, sho:""s not only a disregard of the promise made by you
at your mstallat10n to be courteous to your brethren but a disregard
as well for the Constitutional rights of the brethren' of your Lodge.
Your statement to brethren of your Lodge that you knew who cast
the cube, naming him, is a gross violation of the law of the ballot.
"In view of the undisputed facts a~d actions on your part, it is
not n~cessary to pass upon other comp lam ts as to your actions, which
you dispute; however, your refusal to lend me any assistance in arrivmg at the ~rue. facts of this c:ise, and your statement in writii:ig to
me th~t objection ha_d b~en withdrawn as to this rejected candidate
when m fact such objection had not been withdrawn definitely shows
your defiance to constituted authority.
'
"The Senior Warden of your Lodge is hereby appointed to take
~harge of the affai,rs of the Lodge as acting Master, and to remain
m such charge until a Master shall be lawfully elected and installed."
Under our law the effect of this suspension, had it been allowed
to extend beyond the time the Master's successor had been elected
and installed, would, in addition to being the punishment of suspension, be a further punishment of deprivation of rank of Past Master.
Thus, in view of an apology by the Master, late though it was, I felt
would be a punishment more than might be warranted for the ~ffense
committed. I therefore ordered the suspension to terminate just previous to the installation of the Master'1 successor in office.

not. understand that it is a prerogative of a Grand Master to review
or overrule the action of a predecessor. The reviewing power rests
with Grand Lodge, acting either directly or through its committees.
Even if I possessed the power, the almost inexcusably disrespectful
language which is used regarding Past Gra11d Masters Crites and
Hutaff in your letter to me and in your letter of September 14, 1929,
addressed to Grand Master Hutaff, make it extremely -difficult, if not
practically impossible, for me to act under the circumstances. I feel
that the only appropriate authority to deal not only with the question
itself but also with the manner in which it has been presented, is
Grand Lodge.
"At the proper time, and in the appropriate manner, I shall refer
the entire situation to the Grand Lodge; and in the meantime I feel
that I am not justified in taking any affirmative action.
"Let me assure you that it is not the desire of either Grand
Lodge or myself to work any injustice upon any one, whether he
be a member of our Institution or a candidate foi: t!ie · degrees. I
feel sure that the course contemplated as stated above will guarantee
a thorough and impartial review of the entire situation and will result
in not only definitely closing the controversy but also in an order
whkh will be just to all parties concerned.
" (Signed) GRAND MASTER."
And I do now refer this matter to Grand Lodge with attached
co.r respondence and ask that. due action be had thereon.

.
West Gate Lo<ige
Immediately after the close of Grand Lodge I received a · communication from the Master of West Gate Lodge No. 335 asking that
a "stop" order issued in 1927 against advancement of Brother O., a
fellowcraft, be revoked, he alleging that such order was a usurpation
of power by the Grand Master. I replied as follows:
" Dear Sir and Brother:
"I~ your letter you ask that, as Grand Master, I declare that
t~e mamtenance of the stop order by my predecessor was a 'usurpation of power by the Grand Master,' and that it be removed. I do

27

Misrepresentation in Petition
During the year a num,ber of instances were brought to the attention of the Grand Master wherein candidates had applied for admission and had been elected to receive the degrees in various Lodges,
who· had failed to state in their petitions that they had been previously
rejected for the degrees in another _Lodge.
.
In four of these instances the candidate had received the first or
first and second degrees before this was discovered.
In several instances a trial was held. In one case the candidate
was able to convince the trial c.o mmission that he had been advised
that it was not necessary to answer the question truthfully or that he
did not know he had been rejected, and he apparently had the sympathy of all the members of the Lodge in which he had been elected.
The prosecutor was the Junior Warden of the Lodge and very littl e,
if any, attempt was made to convict, and it resulted in a verdict of not
guilty.
After 'careful consideration of this action, the Grand Master felt
that more could be accomplished by issuing an order to the Lodges
involved, as follows:
" Information has been ' lodged with the Grand Master that
............................................................, presented a petition to your Lodge
on or about.. ......................................................... ., for the degrees of Ma-

28

PROCEEDINGS OF TRF.

sonry; that in his said petition he did not reveal the fact that he had
previously been rejected for the degrees by..................................................
Lodge, located at..............,........•................................... Such being the fact,
said.............:......- ..........'.:'.....~'. ....:........:.has not properly presented a petition, and I therefore direct you to return the fees to him, permittin·g
him to petition anew, answerin~ all questions truthfully as · they
should be. If elected, the remaining degrees can be conferred upon
him."
·
·
I am quoting the above order in full, and request that this matter
be referred to the Jurisprudence Committee for careful · consideratio~.
I feel that this will accomplish as much, if not more, than a trial
and not only correct the evil, but help the Lodges involved, they
being in most cases innocent of any wrong-doing.
Transcripts of Trial Records
Many times during the year I have received letters asking whether.
or not charges had been preferred against men who were undergoing
trial or had been convicted in the courts. In a number of instances
these were cases that had attracted more than usual attention, due
to the •impor·t ance of the case and its publicity in the newspapers.
Under our law, Grand Lodge is informed of a trial ~fter . its conclusion, and then only if a verdict of guilty and a judgment of suspension or expulsion has been .found.
I can see no objection to a copy of all charges of unmasonic
conduct being filed in the Grand Secr~tary' s office, and at the conclusion of the trial the transcript of same, whether resulting in acquittal or otherwise, being so filed.
This would enable the Grand Master to. know what was going on
in our jurisdiction; encourage officers of Lodges to do their duty, and
oftentimes prevent injustices.
.
I ask Grand Lodge to approve this policy, and recommend that
Section 207 of the Constitution be amended as, fo~lows:
.
In the first paragraph the words "thirty days" 'be changed to
read "ninety days," thus giving ample time for the. Grand Master to
direct an appeal - to the Grap.cl Lodge if he deem.s such· procedure
proper under .the circumstances of the particular case. ·
And in the next to last sentence of the first paragraph, strike out
the word "appealed" in the phrase "in all appealed cases" and the
words "in all cases of expulsion or suspension" immediately following.
The result would be that in all cases the transcript would have to be
prepared and forwarded to the Grand Secretary, giving opportunity
to the Grand Master or some one delegated by him to look ove.r the
record.

GRAND L ODGE OJ<' CALIFORNIA

29

Long Beach Temple
On several occasions I was called in conference by Grand Master
Hutaff regarding the financial condition of the Long Beach temple.
Charges were made of the improper diversion of the funds of this
temple association by th.e executive committee.
Early thi~ year I held a !Tearing, and was convinced that the
. three men constituting the executive committee having the erection
and equipment .~f . the temple in charge had secretly and unlawfully
di.verted the funds, collecting from the brethren of Long Beach to
th~ payment to themselves of salaries and commissions of approximately $34,000.00.
Other char.ges were made, but this was definite enough to cause
.m e to ipstruct the Junior Warden of the Lodge of which these men
.w ere· members to bring charges· of unmasonic conduct.
The trial has been had, ai1d in order that full justice be done I
instructed the Junior Warden to file an appeal, thus bringing the
cases before Grand Lodge for final review.
I suggest" ~hat the Temple Association be instructed to file a civil
~uit ag'linst all guilty parties, look~ng for a restitu tion to the te mple
funds of all moneys improperly diverted.
Educational Programme
.F ollowing the instructions of Grand Lodge, the Committee on
Masonic Education this last year confined themselves to topics on
Maspnry exclusively.
These papers, particularly in the rural districts, have been well
r.eceived, . and I am convinced that this activity should be continued.
.The 'matter of Masonic education is in its infancy. Some thirty American jurisdictions arc at this time experimenting with such a programme, and I have no doubt that there will come forth much that
will renew the interest of our Masons generally, and develop a programme that will bring to the young members of the craft a desire to
understand Masonry, keep alive their interest and make them assets
to their Lodges.
Clandestine Bodies
At our last annual communication, the committee appointed by
Grand Master Hutaff asked ior further time, which was granted. I
i;-~appointed the brethren who had served on the committee, but later
on added Brother William A. Shrieder of Los Angeles. In July
~·rather Leo1iard S. Anderson resigned the chairmanship and I asked
Bro.ther Shrieder to accept same.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Irregular or clandestine bodies are springing up in various parts
of the state, and much complaint has come to the Grand Master during the year concerning them. I hope the report of our committee will
throw light on this subject.
·
Public Schools Week
One hundred and thirty yeats ago there existed in this country
of ours a· number of schools, but with one exception all were connected with various religious denominations, and but three per cept
of our population was afforded an opportunity for education, and this
not free.
·
The leaders in this Republic early realized that if it was to continue, it would be necessary to establish a system of free educ.ation
through public schools, where distrust and intolerance would be
removed from the minds of the future citizens of our land, by intimate
contact in the school yard and the school room.
The result of this was the establishment of our Public Schools
System; one in which Masonry had a large part in bringing into being.
T~e vari~us deno.nii~ati'qns that maintained private schools in
connection with their churches in 1800, for the most part accepted
the public school system, at least in the elementary and secondary
grades. One great religion only maintains a system of sectarian
schools, and the head of that religion has lately issued an encyclical
pointing out that the "Education of the young is a matter for the
church; the right of the parent therein is secondary and the State has
no right at all." If such a theory were to prevail in our country a
most dangerous condition wo,uld arise. No longer would we ·have
harmony, toleration and democracy. And so 1• commend to you the
idea of a Public Schools W t:ek, the creation of Past €;rand Master
Adams some ten years ago, and give it to you in charge as Masons
individually, to display your interest in the Public Schools System,
not only in the one week set' aside for this observance, but throughout the fifty-two weeks of the year, thus displaying your good
citizenship.
I ask that you lend careful ear to the report of our Committee on
Public Schools Week This activity deserves the commendation of
our craft.
Masonic Homes
In our Masonic Homes we have a magnificent institution that
commands the admiration of every brother of this jurisdiction and
the envy of those of other jurisdictions who have -visited either of
them.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31

This year marks the completi.01.1 , of: .t he building programme
authori1ed by Gra.nd Lodge in . 1921,, and tomorrow you will see the
completed Home at Decoto.
I trust you will g;ve careful attention to the report of the Trustees. They have many problems to.1,solve. The growth of Masonry
in . this jurisdiction and the demands made on our. Homes in the last
ten ye.a rs have .been unusually heavy, and could not be· anticipated.

In 1921 you cared for 146 aduhs ·at Pecoto and 79 children at
Covina, and you, through the Lodges, contributed a per capita of
35 cents a member for maintenance.
Since that year the per capita has been 25 cents, a reduction of.
10 cents. Yet. our homes 'have grown to . 302 adults and 188 chii'ciren.
This means that the $25.00 Home Tax on initiations must carry the
bulk of the maintenance charges. This year it fell short about ·$10,000.00. I recommend that the ·Finance Committee give careful consideration to the requirements of the Homes.
· ·
.
.
.
I have met many times during the year with the Trustees gf ·our
Homes. Grand Lodge owes a debt of gratitude to these men, who
give unselfishly of their time to this important task, not occasionally,
but constantly through the year. May we give them every encouragement.
Politics
Immediately after my return to San Francisco from the annual
communication of Grand Lodge at Los Angeles, my attention was
called to a so-called. Masonic ticket for municipal offices in the election
to be held in San Francisco in November.
The word Masonic did not appear on this ticket, but it is a fact
that candidates were approached and solicited for funds to "help pay
the cost of printing" and were told it would be distributed at Masonic
Lodge meetings and to some 75,000 Masons and their famiiles.
The originator 'of this ticket, in his correspondence with candidates for office, used letter-heads on which was printed his Masonic
titles, and used his title in Masonry after his signature, although
letters were sent to non-Masons.
In two instances members of the craft refused to allow their
names to appear on this ticket, and non-Masons were substituted.
In an interview with the brother responsibl e, I pointed out that
the brethren generally resented the efforts of this group to link
Masonry with local partisan politics; that his denial meant nothing,
as the use of his Masonic letter-hea.ds and Masonic titles was for the
deliberate purpose of linking M~sonry to his so-called Masontc ticket,
and that if it continued I would be forced to take active steps to
prevent its re-occurrence.

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This year this same kind of ticket again appeared for State and
County offices, and while I have had no personal complaints as yet, I
think the time has come to refer the entire matter to Grand ' Lodge
for such action as it desires to take.
Under date of June 30, 1930, a circular letter, signed by the
Secretary of an Oakland Lodge, was mailed to the Lodges of Alameda County, calling attention to political conditions and that at ·the
primary election candidates ·selected by Masons should be voted for;
that members of our fraternity "should be of one mind and one
accord" in expressing their right of franchise. The letter closed as
follows:
"To the end, therefore, lhat a possible unanimity of action may
be initiated, a group of public spirited brethren have arranged to hold
a meeting to discuss this entire matter, and to endeavor to arrive at a
conclusion. Prominent speakers will participate and aid in this
movement.
"You, as Master of your Lodge, with your corps of officers o~ly,
are invited to come to this meeting (it will be strictly Masonic and
tyled) , Admission by card only. A sufficient number enclosed for
yourself and officers. Call for more if needed.
.
"What does Masonry stand for if not for a righteous movement
like this?"
I referred the matter to Inspector J. E. Hammond, and on his
recommendation a subsequent communication was mailed to the
Alameda County Lodges, stating that the meeting would be open to
any citizen and was not a Masonic meeting. I was later informed that
Masons and Masonry were not discussed or referred to by any
speaker.
A number of circulars, cards and notices were received by the
Grand Master calling attention to the Masonic activities of various
candidates for office throughout the State.
This, I presume, happens at every election and is difficult to suppress. I doubt that they accomplish much good for the candidates,
and I believe that our brethren generally resent the attempt to involve
-!4asonry with any individual's personal political ambitions.
Claim against Widows and Orphans Fund of Aahrnes Temple
There has been referred to the Gr~nd Master by the Trustees of
the Masonic Homes a matter in controversy with the Widows and
Orphans Fund of Aahmes Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S. of Oakland.
Brother William E. Alexander, a resident of the Masonic Homes,
changed the beneficiary of his policy in this fund to the Masonic
Homes · of California, and on January 29, 1930, the Grand Secretary
so notified the Re.corder of that Temple. With the request to the

33

Recorder for this change of beneficiary, the Secretary of the Homes,
added this paragraph:
"Will you kindly make the necessary changes on your books, and
send all notices of assessments to this office, together with evidence
of membership."
. From now on we have a large amount of correspondence which
I would like to read in full to Grand Lodge, but realize that time will
not permit. Briefed, it is as follows : ·
Aahmes Temple had transferred, under date of January 31st, the
beneficiary as requested by the Grand Secretary but no bill or notice
of assessment of any kind was sent to him, although both the President and Secretary knew that Alexander was a ward of the Masonic
Home previous to the 31st. On February 6th Brother Alexander
died and due notic~ was sent to the Recorder of Aahmes Temple. In
response to this notice a copy of the By-laws of the Widows and
Orphans Fund was received, calling attention to Sections 3 and 8 of
said By-laws; section 8 reading as follows:
"Any member one month in arrears in his dues to Aahmes Temple or who has severed his membership with the Temple for any
rea~on whatever shall ipso facto cease his membership in the Widows
and Orphans Fund and will not be entitled to any refund of moneys
paid into the Fund, nor will his beneficiaries have any claim on the
fund."
The Trustees of the Widows and Orphans Fund, standing on this
regulation, declined to pay the beneficiaries, claiming that Brother
Alexander was automatically expelled on January 31st.
Brother Gaylord, for the Trustees of the Homes, then presented
under date of March 5th his viewpoint as to the action of the Aahmes
Board. He pointed out that Brother Alexander was an inmate of the
Masonic Hoqie, his support was a charge upon the Masonic fraternity
of the State as a whole, and even before a forfeiture was claimed or
had accrued it was known to the Secretary of the Fund, who is also
the Recorder of Aahmes Temple, that this condition existed; that no
notice had been sent to the Grand Secretary of any dues or assessments due from Brother Alexander; that an expenditure of ten cents
for a telephone call to the Grand Secretary's office would have procured a check to place Brother Alexander in good standing.
When the Homes Trustees found that Aahmes Temple had very
definitely rejected the claim, they referred the entire matter to· the
Grand Master. I then took it up with Brother Youngworth, the then
·Imperial Potentate of the Shrine, turning over to him copies of all
the correspondence in the matter, and in return received from him a
letter dated June 21st in which he suggested a friendly suit or the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

going into arbitration, suggestin~ ·P;s~ Gra~d Master Judge Murphey
as arbitrator. To this I replied on June 21st and from my reply will
quote as follows:
• r

:vm

"I
agree 'Yith Y?U that the. Widows and Orphans Funds have
no official connection with the various temples of Shrinedom but are
cr.eated among the mem.bership _the~e~f. In the eyes, howev~i:. of the
widows and orphans this fund 1s distinctly a part of the Shrine just
as the lay person looks upon a group of Shriners and thinks of them
as Masons .
. "Charity a!1d relief are fundamentals of Masonr~ and all Masonic organizations, and yet in this case, a brother and his wife who
are in nee.d of relief, that poi_nt being well established by their having
been admitted to the Masonic Home, are declared entitled to no ·c onsideration although a transfer of the policy was made before the
man's death. I think Aahmes Temple, or rather the Directors of the .
Widows and Orphans Fund, are forgetting one of the great funda- ·
mentals of Masonry.
"When you consider the correspondence, there was ample time
for the Recorder of Aahmes Temple to have notified. the Secretary of
the Home of the approaching delinquency of Brother Alexander and
he could have been kept in good standing with the expenditure' of a
two-cent stamp.
·
"I note with some amusement the remarks concerning the letter
addressed by Brother Gaylord where you state 'it was not such a
letter as should be addressed to one member of the Masonic fraternity
by another brother .in view of the fact that Brother Breed and
Brother Gaylord are friends of long standing and both were acting
and are acting in a representative capacity.'
"I say I note this with amusement, b.e cause you are overlooking
the fact that the Recorder of A.ahmes Temple, who is also the Secretary of the Widows and Orphans Fund, did not reply to . a letter of
the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge · of California in due time
to protect the interests of a distressed brother who was in the hands
of Ma,sonic charity. These things, Leo, should work both ways.
''.I. might also say, in connection with this .Masonic spirit, where
is that displayed in the cutting 'off of an indigent brother Mason from
the rights to this fund who has m'a intained· himself in the Shrine and
the Fund foi; many years.
"I would be very glad to talk to Potentate Brother Johnson if
he so desires, and like yourself, use my services in bringing this case
to a happy conclusion.
"As t see it, the Trustees have one of t~o things to do-~ suit
or a reference to the Grand Master and thr·oug-h him to Grand ' Lodge.
I do not think either would be very happy for Masonry.''
I would add at this time, my brethren, in connection with Brother
Gaylord's letter, it might be noted that it was not sent until after the
officers of the Widows and Orphans Fund had definitely refused to .
pay the claim.
I waited sometime to hear from the Potentate of Aahmes Temple
and finally telephoned him suggesting- an .interview. ·I thought I was
going far in the spirit of harmony when I took the initiative and

35

called him on the phone. I was informed that there were only two
things to be considered-one was arbitration and the other a suit, as
far as he was concerned, and his answer was such that I discontinued
any attempt towards an adjustment of this matter with him.
I do not recommend concurrence in the suggestion that this
question either be litigated or submitted to legal arbitration. Either
cannot fail to be attended by publicity whose injury is disproportionate to the amount of money involved. Either of the suggested
forms of determination presupposes a consideration of the question
on a strict basis of technical legal rights. I feel that the situation
involves much more than legal technicalities. I believe that the
failure of the Recorder of Aahmes Temple, who was also the Secretary of the Widows and Orphans Fund of said Temp\e, to notify the
Grand Secretary of the situation in which Brother Alexander stood
as to his rights, created this entire condition, and it seems to me that
there is an absolute lack of the spirit of Masonic brotherhood and
charity when an organization whose membership is based on Masonry, in order to save a paltry few dollars, takes advantage of a
section of their By-laws, which I believe is never used unless it is a
question of. paying a benefit.
I wonder how many members of that Temple are in arrears
today, and I wonder if any brother has been dropped from the rolls
while living, who was thirty days in arrears? It seems to me that all
the principles of Masonry are violated in this automatic forfeiture.
I )1ave 'not a doubt that Sections 3 and 8 works to the advantage
of the Fund and the living member, while the distressed heirs of the
departed brother, who have been counting on this relief, are holding
an empty bag.
I made it my purpose to inquire of another widows and orphans
fund to see if the same rule applies, and find that they pay the beneficiary, deducting from the benefit check such amount as might be due.
Fully as important as the collection of $1500, which I believe to
be justly due the Masonic Homes of California, is the bringing to the
attention of the membership of the State that so-called widows and
orphans funds are being operated as pure cold-blooded business
propositions and less liberal than commercial insurance organizations
operating for profit under our laws, and that something should be
done to correct this evil.
I am , therefore, referring this entire matter to Grand Lodge,
together with all correspondence, in order that it be referred to an
appropriate committee for proper action.

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORIS!A

Dual Membership
At the conference of Grand Masters at Washington, D. C., February 20th, this subject was ably presented by Grand Master McFadden, of Virginia. It created a great deal of interest, and .it is being
discussed in many American jurisdictions at this time.
Grand Master Dean, in his address to the officers of Grand Lodge
and Past Grand Masters, at a luncheon in San Francisco, brought
home to us the value of dual membership to those who are temporarily living in foreign lands.
In order that the brethren here assembled may give this subject
thought and have the facts before them, I here quote from the address
of the Grand Master of New York, 1927, the following, relating on
this subject:
·
"It is my purpose to call your attention only to one or two outstanding features which the question presents.
"First, ~ingle or exclusive membership is largely an American
custom and 1s not therefore a Landmark of the Craft. Some American
ju_risdictions have used a plural system for many years, apparently
with good results. To adopt plural membership therefore would
not be an innovation in the body of Masonry.
'
'
"Second, brethren coming from other jurisdictions who may
desire membership in one of our Lodges must first make sure that
their possible affiliation with us will not be in violation of the laws of
their home jurisdiction.
"Third, he who would join Lodges other than his Mother Lodge
must present his petition, which shall be the official form used by the
~rand Lodge of the State of New York, pass the ballot, and qualify
m every respect under the By-laws of the Lodge he would join and
the Constitution of the Grand Lodge of the State of New York.
"F?~rth, after being duly elected, he would have th~ same rights
and privileges as any other member of the Lodge with which he
becomes connected.
"The question may be argued both affirmatively and negatively.
but after all is said and done, the positive arguments seem to preponderate, whereas the negative arguments are more or less technical
and easily overcome."
The report of the Special Committee on the above was as follows:
. "We have considered carefully the situation referred to in ·fu
said address, the history of Lodge membership, single and plural
the material available contributed by Masonic students and thoughtfui
Masons, b<?th in recent publications and in the general history of
the fratermty, and have to some extent canvassed the opinion of
members of the fraternity both in this and other jurisdictions.
"The advantages of plural membership in our opinion exceed the
disadvantages.
"Many are the cases of Masons, who, moving from their old
home and the neighborhood of their Lodge to a location distant
frequently, in another State and Masonic jurisdiction, and 'desirous

37

naturally of Masonic intercourse, discover a group in the neighborhood in which they have established themselves with which they
delight to foregather but find, as is natural and manly, embarrassment
by reason of the fact that they have no status, are merely guests, and
hesitate to wear out their welcome. Whether Masonic hospitality is
all-extensive as distinguished from normal human relations may be
debatable, but we doubt it. We see no reason why the Masonic relation should so transform. the human creature, as to make him an
unending and great welcomer of the visitor who pays nothing, who
bears no burdens, who take no part in activities, who has no status.
And it seems self-evident that the lack of opportunity to bear burdens,
assume responsibilities, to render service, and to take active part in
Masonic life inevitably soonor later saps and kills Masonic vitality.
Indeed, we consider it axiomatic that upon activity, responsibility,
right and duty to perform service depend Masonic life, and that the
Mason out of touch is dying or dead. The army of unaffiliates doubtless grows in some measure from this cause.
"A frequently heard objection to participation in the formation
of a new Lodge is the fear of an unwillingness to be weaned and
severed from one's Mother Lodge.
"Massachusetts has planted Freemasonry in several parts of the
world distant from its section, notably the Canal Zone, Chile and
Shanghai. This was a partial cause for the adoption of plural membership by that jurisdiction."
"Rhode Island adopted dual membership in connection with the
establishment as a regular Lodge of its War Lodge, which operated
at Coblenz, but made the privilege of dual membership available
generally within that jurisdiction, limiting the privilege to two
Lodges within the jurisdiction.
"New York has planted the seeds of Masonry in Finland, Roumania and Syria, an act and an activity which suggests the propriety
of affording the opportunity of plural membership on that account;
but we take the view that there is now no, or should be no, serious
objection to membership in two or more Lodges of different obediences, with appropriate regulation governing discipline and limitation as to Mastership.
"We, therefore, recommend that plural membership both within
and without the jurisdiction be permitted."
The recommendation was adopted and New York now permits
not only dual but plural memberships.
I believe that dual memberships would not affect many in our
jurisdiction. Lodges would still have control and would make the
same investigation as in all cases of affiliation, and could and should
keep out those who would become charges on the Lodge or be otherwise undesirable.
The man who will se~k dual membership is the active man of
affairs, removed through business from his home Lodge, who, loving
Masonry, desires to have contact with his brethren of the fraternity;
or again, the brother of our own jurisdiction who, raised and passing
through the chairs in one part of the State, has for one reason or
another made a permanent home in another section.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

38

39

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

His love for his Mother Lodge, the obligation due it for the
honors eonferred on him, and perhaps its need of his financial support,
prevent him from dirnitting, and it is therefore, embarrassing for him
to partake of the hospitality of the Lodge in his new home.
He wants to be active in Masonry, and Masonry needs him. Will
you again give some thought to the qu~stion of dual membership?
And in order that it be brought forward for discussion at this
communication of Grand Lodge, I would recommend the amendments proposed in 1923, by the Jurisprudence Committee, with some
slight changes, that is, amending Section 157 of the Constitution to
read as follows:
"No Mason shall be a member of more than one Lodge of this
jurisdiction, but may in addition maintain membership in Lodges of
other jurisdictions whose Constitution permits dual membership, and
a brother of a foreign jurisdiction which permits dual membership
may affiliate with a Lodge in this jurisdiction without withdrawing
from such Lodge. He shall be subject to the provisions of the Constitution regarding application, references, report and ballot, if such
membership be permitted by the law of the jurisdiction of any Lodge
of which he is a member at the time of application for affiliation in
another Lodge, and in such event he shall be entitled to the same
rights and privileges and be subject to the same duties, prohibitions
and liabilities in each Lodge as attach to membership therein; provided, that if he shall be expelled or suspended for any reason by any
Lodge of which he is a member, he shall thereby stand expelled or
suspended from all such Lodges and shall not be reinstated in any
Lodge until the Lodge by which he was expelled or suspended shall
have reinstated him to membership, and provided further, that he may
withdraw from any Lodges of which he is a member.
Resolved, further, that Section 161 of the Constitution be amended
by striking out the last sentence of the first paragraph thereof and
inserting in lieu thereof the following:
"If the applicant be elected, he shall become a member of the
Lodge so electing him by signing its By-laws; provided, however,
that an applicant for affiliation who has given to any Lodge of which
he may be a member, notice of his intention to withdraw therefrom.
shall not be permitted to sign the By-laws and become a member of
any other Lodge until after the issuance of the certificate of his
withdrawal from such Lodge, which shall be immediately issued by
the Secretary upon due notice of his election by the Lodge with
which he desires to affiliate; and provided further, that every applicant shall state in his application for affiliation whether or not he
desires to withdraw from the Lodge of which he is at the time a
member."
Be it further resolved, that the second paragraph of said Section
161 be amended by inserting after the words "ipso facto cease" the
following words :
·
"Unless he indicate upon the petition for dispensation that it is
his intention to retain his m embership in the Lodge or Lodges of
which he is a member."

Expense of Grand Master
I would ask Grand Lodge and the Finance Committee to give
consideration to the appropriation of funds to cover the traveling
expenses of the Grand Master.
For many years an annual appropriation . of $2,500.00 has been
made for this purpose. I know that those Grand Masters who met
the demands on them by the Lodges of the jurisdiction, attended the
conference of Grand Masters at Washington, D. C., and visited the
Lodges of the Hawaiian Islands, spent a great deal more than this
allowance, the -deficit coming from their own funds.
To be Grand Master is a privilege and an honor, and the incumbent gives freely and gladly of his time. But I doubt if our brethren
expect him to pay the expenses necessitated by the discharge of the
duties of the office.
With the understanding that this applies to the future only, I
recommend the adoption of the following addition to the usual annual
resolution of the Finance Committee:
"The actual individual expenses, not to exceed $5,000.00 per annum of the Grand Master in the discharge of his duties appertaining
to his office, shall be paid. He shall submit to the Grand Secretary,
a statement, and after approval by the Committee on Accounts, the
Grand Secretary shall draw a warrant on the Grand Treasurer in
payment thereof."
Conclusion
In concluding, I beg of you to accept all the thanks that a heart
full of gratitude can offer.
My experience as Grand Master has been a happy and profitable
one to me, and I hope of some small value to the Masonry of our
jurisdiction. I have tried to be fair to all men, always having in mind
the best interests of Masonry.
The brethren have at all times been kind, courteous and generous,
and have ever shown me the very highest respect.
The elected and appointed officers of Grand Lodge, our tireless
Inspectors, the chairman and members of our committees and the
Masters of the various Lodges have always and cheerfully met every
request of the Grand Master, and I take this occasion to tender to
them my sincere thanks.
The opportunity of meeting and becoming acquainted with men
of such high character has been a great privilege, and I trust that the
friendships made will continue through life.
I have had many invitations to visit Lodges that I was unable
to accept. This is a large jurisdiction and no Grand Mas ter can cover

40

l'ROCEEDl.NUS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF °CALIFORNIA

it in a year. Perhaps those Lodges whose invitations I was forced to
decline will at some future date give me an opportunity to greet them
as a Past Grand Master.
·
Brethren, such is the report of my stewardship. Let us proceed
with the business that brings us here.

First: That Public Schools Week commencing on the 21st day of
April, 1930, be observed by all our Lodges and their members according to custom.
Second: That in every community in Ca}ifornia and the Territory of Hawaii in which there exists a Lodge of Masons there be held
during that week at least one public meeting or gathering through
which the attention of the people may be focused on the public
schools.
Third: That no "work" be done i.n any L odge on the night on
which any meeting for the observance of Public Schools Week is held
in the city or town in which the Lodge is located.

GRAND LODGE, F . & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
CHARLES M. \VoLLENBERG, Grand Master

41

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

PROCLAMATION
ELEVENTH A N NUAL OBSERVANCE PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

To all Masons in the Jurisdiction:
If it be true, as has been said, that "the startling advancement of
education in the West has imperiled the intellectual leadership of the
Eastern states," it is undoubtedly due to the attitude of the public.
In the support of its public schools California occupies a particularly enviable position. There is no other State in the Union in which
the people seem to be more genuinely interested in their schools and
more willing to provide the necessary support.
It may be only a coincidence that there is no other State in which
the people know more of the aims, purposes and achievements of their
schools than they do in California; but it is more than likely that it
is because here an especial effort has been, and is still being, made to
keep the people informed, and to establish · a close contact between
the schools and their patrons. In this work the Masonic Fraternity,
even with becoming modesty, may justly claim to have played no
small part.
Public Schools Week has become a community affair and is no
longer merely a Masonic event ; but our task is far from completed.
We must continue to foster the observance, willingly and gladly
joining with the civic organizations in the larger communities, carrying on alone if, and only where, compelled so to do, and everywhere
being willing to bear the burden and heat of the day, while generously
giving credit to all who labor in the vineyard whether or not they be
of our number.
Now, therefore, I, Charles M. Wollenberg, Grand Master of
Ma'sons in the jurisdiction of California, do proclaim, request and
direct as follows:

Dated at San Francisco California, this 17th day of February,
I .
'
1930.
Attest:
JOH N WHTCHER,

Grand Secretary.

C. M . WOLLENBERG,

Grand Master.

l.

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the M:. W:. Gran.1 Lodge of California:
Herewith is presented my twenty-third annual report informing
you of all moneys received for. account of Grand Lodge, the Masonic
Homes and the Emergency Relief Fund, and a summary of disbursements. The Constitution requires that the detail of all expenditures be filed with the Finance Committee, which has been don e.
Membership
The membership of chartered Lodges for the year ended July
31, 1929, was 138,456, and of Lodges under dispensation, 196, a total
of 138,6S2, a_ net gain over the previous year of 4,350.
For the fiscal year ended July 31, 1930, chartered Lodges reported
a membership of 141,926 and the three Lodges under dispensation,
reporting as of September !, 1930, have 136 members, the total
membership now being 142,062, a net gain of 3,410 over last year.
There are only five jurisdictions in the United States having a
larger membership than ours; and our percentage of net increase is
exceeded only by the District of Columbia, New Mexico and Arizona.
There are S77 chartered Lodges on our registry, and three
Lodges under dispensation.
Growth Since 1850
The net growth of membership since organization in April, 18SO,
by years is as follows:
G. Lodge
G. Lodge
End
No . of MemberEnd
No. of Memberof Yr.
Lodges
ship
L odges
of Yr.
ship
1850............................ 11
258
1861 ........ ...................131
5,586
1851............................ 17
567
1862............................136
5,943
1852............................ 23
655
1863............................143
6,093
1853............................ 31
1,111
1864....,.......................149
6,700
1854............................ 50
1,833
1865............................144
6,607
1855........................... : 81·
2,661
1866............... ............147
7,020
1856............................ 101
3,605
1867.......................... .152
7,568
1857............................ 113
4,282
1868............................ 159
8,106
1858............................118
4,474
1869............................ 170
8,853
1859............................ 122
4,727'
1870............................ 175
9,528
1860............................ 130
5,055
1871 ............................ 184
9,909

43

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

G.Lodge
G. Lodge
End
No. of MemberEnd ·
No. of Memberof Y1·.
Lodges
ship
Lodges
of Yr.
ship
1872.......\.................. :·_187
1902............................277
10,078
24,73S
1873...........c................ 192
1903............................284
10,725
27,078
1874............................ 198
1904............................291
10,96S
29,468
1875......................:..... 1'98
11,463
190S ....:......~............. :..298
31,S61
1876............................200
11,931
1906............................308
33,769
1877........................... .203
36,126
1907..............:.............315
12,168
1878............................207
1908........,...................324
12,281
38,669
1879........................... .209
1909............................330
41,007
12,214 .
1880........................... .213
43,675
1910............................340
12,313
.1881 ............................216
45,836
1911............................343
12,S97:
1882............................214
12,881
1912............................352
48,31S
1883............................216
13,S79
1913......................:.....3S4
S0,257
1884............................220
14,016 \• 1914.. :.........................367
S3,179
1885............................224
14,260
S5,341
1915............................37.3
1886..................... ,......226
14,441
1916............................377
S7,,856
1887............................231
14,662
1917.............................379
60,384
1888........................... .234
1918............................383
64,095
lS,125
JS&9............................236
lS,407
1919............................381
67,890
1890............................242
1920, ...........................400
76,873
lS,831
. 1891............................247
16,262
1921 ....... :.................. ..419
8S,181
1892....,.......................250
1922............................445
93,179
16,767..
1893............................?55
17,006
1923..,.........................484
100,283
1894............................258
17,040
1924............................S05
108,173
1895............................260
11S,S17
17,431..
1925............................532
1896............................ 262
18,208
121,6S6
1926............................ 551
1897............................267
129,309
18,808
1927............................ S62
1898............................26S
19,S42
134,302
192,8............................572
1899............................267
20,442
1929............................577
1$8,6S2
1900..:.........................269
21,S79
1930............................ S80 142,062
1901 ..:..............:......... .271
22,776
Comparative Growth

1915
Number of chartered lodges ........... :.... 373
Initiations reported ...........,,................... 3,234
Passed ................................................~ ..... 3,239
Raised ...................................................... 3,257
Affiliated .................................................. 1.088
Reinstated ... :..:..................:...................... 146
Withdrawn .....,.....:.............. .!:........ : •..:..... 738
Suspended non-payment dues .........,.. 742

1920
400
10,547
9,903
9,336
1,644
323
1,378
460

192S

1930

sos

577

8,068
8,087
8,177
1,925
·222
-1,475
818

u,v'"'v
u,'-.LJ
J.,.JI J.

279
; 1,220
1,734

PHOCEEDINOS OF' THE

1915
Suspended and expelled........................
20
Died _........-............................:.............-.. 811
Number of members..............................55,341
Increase over previous year...:............ 2,162
Increase in five years .............::.............11,666

1920
19
949
76,873
8,983
21,532

1925
33
1,223
115,517
7,344
38,644

1930
34
1,638
142,062
3,410·

26,545

Petition for Exclusive Jurisdiction
.
L
.
an cop~ ?dge No-_ 434 has filed a petition passant to Sec. 92A
of the _Constitution, praym·g that certain territory (described in the
resolution) be granted as exclusive territorial jurisdiction. This has
been ~pproved by the Grand Master and placed with the Committee
of Jurisprudence.
M

Ta~t. Lodge No. 516 has filed a protest against the granting of
the petition of Maricopa Lodge.
Gold Buttons for Veteran Masons
At the last annual communication the privilege of wearing the
~fty-year token was extended to members of Lodges in our jurisdiction who have been Master Masons in good standing for .fifty years
or more. The original provision limited the privilege to those wh~
had been members _of L?dges in this jurisdiction for half a century.
The_ oldes~ Mason, m pomt of service, is George Edward Buck, who
his Master's degree in Summit Lodge No 170 Fort w
rreceived
d'
.
'
ayne,
n 1ana, May 6, 1859, and who affiliated with our Sunrise Lodge No
522, Los Angeles, August .1, 1929. Some three hundred of the gold
buttons have been presented to veteran Masons in the year ended
October 1, 1930, their names as following ~
· Name
Date
Adams, Robert Perry.................... Oct. 4, 1875
Albee, Marshall Pickney W ....... Aug. 11, 1&73
Alford, Chauncey Higley............ June 1, 1867
Alles, Fred Lind............................ Apr. 27 1874
Amis, James Haynes.................... June -: 1877
Anderson, Henry Clay................ - - 1873
Angove, Jeremiah.......................... Feb. 16, 1878
Ashley, John Wm...................:..... Mar. 3, 1879
Ashley, Wm. Washington............ May 10, 1880
Augustus, Edward H ................... Nov. - 1876
Austin, John Reuben ....................- - '1878
Bacon, Gaston Ernest.................. July 12, 1880
Baker, Oscar Alexander............ July 4, 1874
Barkley, Jas. T .............................Aug. 28, 1863

Lodge

East Gate No. 290
Durant No. 268
So. Gate No. 320
So. Cali fomia No. 278
Ramona No. 457
Pomona No. 246
Madison No. 23
Elysian No. 418 ...
San Fernando No. 343
Hollenbeck No. 319
Las Palmas No. 366
King Solomon No. 260
Yosemite No. 99
San Diego No. 35

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

45

Name
Date
Lodge
Barnhart, Thoinas......,................... Oct. 4, 1879 Galt No. 267
Barnum, John Starr...................... Sept. 1, 1877 San Jose No. 10
Bartholomew, Wm. Franklin...... -· - - · 1868 Smyrna No. 532
Bartle, John Henry......::................ Apr. ·1, 1879 Monrovia No. 308
Barton, Henry John..~................... Sept. 13, 1880 Howard No. 37
Bartos, Paul V ............................... Apr. 13, 1878 Re~dley No. 304
Belding, Wm. Martin.................. June 1, 1871 Santa Ana No. 241
Bernard, Adolph ............................ Apr. 8, 1876 Claremont No. 436
Bernhard, George Henry............ Jan. -, 1879 Las Palmas No. 366
Berriman, Wm. Samuel... ........... June 21, 1877 Madison No. 23
Blackmer, John Keep....--~ ...........:July 20, 1870 San Diego No. 35
Blade, Arthur McDonald............ Aug. 30, 1880 King Solomon No. 260
Blake, George Mathew................ -Oct. 19, 1875 Monrovia No. 308
Bostaph, Wm. Marion.................. - - 1877 Eden No. 113
Brooks, Albert Preston................ May 6,' 1878 Fresno No. 247
Broughton, Jas. Richard ............ Oct. 10, 1879 Oakdale No. 275
Brown, Clement A ......................... July 16, 1866 Pentalpha No. 202
Brown, Peter................................. : Dec. 21, 1872 Redondo No. 328
Browne,' John David....................'. Mar. 27, 1865 Santa Monica No. 307
Buck, George Edward.................: May 6, 1859 Sunrise No. 522
Burdick, Jo5eph.................:............ Feb. 11, 1873 Sacramento No. 40
Burr, Charles Martin._............... Jan. 17, 1879 . East Gate No. 290
Burson, Joseph H ......................... Sept. 2, 1874 Anaheim No. 207
Camm, Edward · Irving................ Aug. 19, 1873 Petaluma No. 180
Campbell, Melvin.......................... Jan. 15, 1876 Pomona No. 246
Case, Charles H ...,......................: Apr. 13, 1878 So. California No. 278
Christensen, Christen Andreas.... Mar. 23, 1880 San Diego No. 35
Coe, Edmund Wallace...:.............. - - .1873 Pentalpha No. 202
Cooley, Lewis Edward................ Oct. 16, 1877 El Centro No. 384
Cooper, Abraham .......................... - - 1867 Starr King No. 344
Cornelius, Frank Robert .............. July 17, 1869 East San Diego No. 561
Craig, Hiram Anson...........:........ Nov. 9, 1868 East Gate No. 290
Cress, Jacob Daniel...................... May 22, 1868 Dinuba No. 385
Crosby, Horton Jones.................. May 31, 1871 So. San Francisco No. 2
Dauchy, Arthur Homer ................ Dec. 30, 1871 Silver .Gate No. 296
Davis, Frank ·Eugene..................'May 29, 1873 Coronado No. 441
Davis, William C.:........:...............:Oct. 17, 1870 Lexington No. I 04
Day, Joshua D............................... Feb. 8, 1879 San Diego No. 35
Day, Quentis Vemile Pleasant.... Nov. 8, 1879 Dinuba No. 385
de Haven, Joseph Lapsley............ - - 1878 So. Gate No. 320
Dennison, Rhodes Dennison........Jtine -, 1868 San Buenaventura No.214
Desnoyers, Jerome B ......,..............May 18, 1871 Hollywood No. 355
Dicl<, J. Will .............:...................... Mar. 16, 1879 Hollenbeck No. 319

46

l 'llUCJ•;J~IJl.NGS OF 'I'll I~

Name
Date
Dickson, Charles Sanford........•... Feb. 8, 1879
Dingee, William Jackson ............ Oct. 11, 1879
Doane, Scott..:........:................:.......- - 1866
Dougherty, Chas. Medley..:.1.•....• - ·- ·1871
Dreher, Peter John ......•.,...:........... Mar. 12, 1870
Drullard, Thomas Wilson,.:....... - ·- - 1874
Dunham, Lewis C..........i.:.:.::...•...Jan. -, 1870
Dunsmoor, 1J ohn M ............., •.
May 22, 1880
Eaton, William L ....:.::......L ....... - - 1872
Eden, William Wallace.............. May 3, 1869
Eldridge, Arno Fisher................ Mar. 30, 1880
Ellis, Jolm.....................................Sept. 16, 1880
Elmore, Benjamin Thomas.......... Nov. 28, 1873
Fairburn, Simon.....•..............:....... - -· 1877
Felt, Chas. Benjamin.................. Mar. 13, 1876
Ferguson, George M ......:............ July 29, 1871
Field, Bowdewin Roy.................... Feb. 1, 1870
Fildew, Francis.................:.:.. :.:..... Dec. 1, 1879
Fish, Chas. Orlando..........-:...~...... Oct. 5, 1874
Fleming, Orestes Phils....:..1.::....... Nov. -, 1879
Folger, Wilber Barton......:.:...;...... Feb. 11, 1875
Forker, William Breckenridge.... Mar. -, 1879
Foster, Robert.. ...•..•.-.............~:....... Apr. -, 1873
Frazier, Samuel Alonzo...-..•......... Dec. 4, 1869
Fredericks, John George.............. - - - 1879
Fulkerson, Tunison........:.:.:.:......... Mar. -, 1875
Fuller; Et son Martin:................... Mar. 1, 1872
Gallagher, John Patrick. ............. May 10, 1880
Garfield, Levi S .., .....:";..-.~............. Apr. 27, 1877
Garrard, John J .............................. July 7, 1877
Gordon, George Clarence.....:...... Mar. 31, 1880
Gordon, Hugh ·T ........L ....c...: ...... Dec. 5, 1873
Gore, John Wesley......:................... -~ 1875
Green, Jesse Mercer ....................... June 17, 1879
Griffin, James 0:..:.........: ......:...... Mar. 28, 1876
Griswold, Thomas Francis.......... June ....,, 1870
Gunsolus, Philip And~ew............ Mar. 8, 1875
Hall, James · Hedges...................:July 17, 1863
Hamilton, Hiram Milton...,:....... Oct. 20, 1879
Harmon, John Enoeh.:.'............... Oct. 11, 1880
Harms, Hetlhan..........'.:c:•..••-..:•••••• - - 1878
Harper, Hiram ·Augustus ......:..... Aug. 4, 1873
Harris, Charles ......:c-.:.:,:-.::..:..:....... June 1·2, 1876
1•••••••

• >I

/,

Lodge
Evergreen No. 259
Oakland No.'188 ·
Vesper No. 84
California No. l·
Ponoma No. 246
Santa Cruz No. 38
Hanford No. 279 1
Hollenbeck No. 319
Veteran No. 373
Las Palmas No. 366
Charter Rock No. 410
San Jose, No. 10
Sanger No. 316
Burbank No. 406
East Gate No. 290
Humboldt No. 79
Wilshire No. 445
South Gate No. 320
Ocean Park No. 369
Hollenbeck' No. 319
San Fernando No. 343
Palisades No. 637
Forbestown No. 50
Blackmer No. 442
Landmark No. 253
Pentalpha No. 202
Elysian No. 418
Occidental No. 22 ·
Harmony No. 164
Fresno No. 247 ·
Mt. View No. 194
Glendora No. 404
Redlands No. 300
Provident No. 609 ·
Palo Alto No. 346
Covina No. ·334
Evergreen No. 259
Santa Ana No: 241
California No. 1 ,
Howard No.· 37
Acacia ·No. 43& ·
Olivet.,No. 206 , . 1
Yosemite No: 99

GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

''

47

Name
Date
Lodge
Harris, Hardin C........................... June 18, 1867 Monrovia No. 308
Hart, Ezra Blair............................ Apr. 12, 1879 Temple No. 14
Hartford, John William .............. Apr. -, 1868 Olivet No. 205
Hathaway, John S ......................... Mar. 17, 1868 Van Nuys No. 450
Hawk, Chas. Franklin .................. Aug. 5, 1870 Delta No. 471
Hawks, John ..................................- - 1877 Yount No. 12
Healey, Charles Edward ...... :....... Apr. 28, 1874 S. Buenaventura No. 214
Hendrickson, Andrew Jackson .. - - 1869 Redlands No. 300
Henrich, Karl ................................ Oct. 3, 1877 Union No. 58
Herbert, Thomas Luther.. .......... Feb. -, 1875 Penrhyn No. 258
Hermes, Albert... ........................... Dec. 19, 1876 Santa Ana No. 241
Hetherington, James.................... July -, 1869 Corona No. 324
Hill, Frank.............:........................ Dec. 16, 1873 Mount Diablo No. 448
Hills, Homer R. ............................ - 11879 Ocean Park No. 369
Hoag, Leslie.................................... Sept. 1, 1876 Abell No. 146
Holland, Wm. W ........................... Oct. 12, 1872 Orange Grove No. 293
Hollander, Siegfried.................... July 27, 1869 Humboldt No. 79
Horne, Harry ........:....................... - - 1871 Redlands No. 300
Horrell, John Alexander............ May 10, 1873 Pasadena No. 272
Hoyt, Wm. Aibert... ...'...........·....... Feb. 14, 1874 Parnassus No. 388
Hubbard, Wm. L ........ ~ .................. Jan. 20, 1874 So. California No. 278
Husband, Charles.......................... Mar. 17, 1876 Sequoia No. 349
Johnson, Peter................................ Jan. 10, 1871 Hollenbeck No. 319
Johnson, William Jones .............. Jan. -, 1873 Oroville No. 103
Jordan, Wiliiam Henry ................. Nov. 29, 1879 Golden Gate No. 30
Keaton, John Jefferscin................ Apr. 2, 1870 Mount J ai:kson No. 295
l..'.elley, John Phillips ...•....~ ........... May 11, 1874 Sequoia No. ·349
Kelsey, James H ............................. Sept. 25, 1879 Sunset No. 352
Kelso, Thad P ............................... July 29, 1868 Sunset No. 352
Kidder, Frank Allen..~ ................. Mar. 19, 1880 San Fernando No. 343
Kiesling, Henry.............................. Apr. 20, 1875 South Pasadena No. 367
King, Robberson Jefferson .......... July 17, 1867 Hanford No. 279
King, Robert A ............................. Sept. 13, 1879 Palms No. 512
Kingsley, John Amos.................. - - - 1874 Pentalpha No. 202
Knapp, Edmund Burke.. '.............. - - 1872 San Jacinto No. 338
Knox, George Whitfield...c.......... May 7, 1880 Wilmington No. 198
Kress, Augustus Herman............ Oct. 15, 1879 · Mission No. 169
La Rue, Jeremiah.....~ .................... Nov. 16, 1872 San Jacinto No. 338
Lawhead, George C........:.:...........- - - - - Whittier No. 323
Lawrence, John ...........:'.................. - ·1872 Pentalpha No. 202
Lazelle, Henry Daniel....:.....:....... Sept. 27, 1880· Solano No. 229
Leavitt, Bailey Lorenzo .............. Feb. 4, 1875 Naval No. 87
Lee, Lane R. ............. ~ .................... June 10, 1878 Ontario No. 301

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

48
Name

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date

Letroadec, Julien L ..................... - - 1880
Levin, Lows....-.............................. Jan. 13, 1874
Levy, Fernand................................ Aug. 20, 1870
Lewison, Jacob Louis.................. Mar. 11, 1880
Lininger, Michael David............ Apr. 13, 1872
Livingston, Niel Wellington.........July 4,· 1878
Livingston, William Rowe.......... July 21, 1873
Loney, James................:................. Apr. 17, 1874
Lothrop, Luther Ramsdale .......... June-, 1877
Low, Alvin Herrington................ - - 1873
Luce, Moses A..:............................ June 27, 1874
Lyke, Chas. W ............................... Apr. 29, 1880
McAlpine, David Johnson .......... Oct. 26, 1876
McClellan, Chas. Roderick .......... Apr. 10, 1878
McCoy, Wm. H ..:........................ Oct. 26, 1874
McDonald, Bernard.:.................... May 8, 1880
McDonald, Daniel ........................ July 4, 1865
McDonald, Frank.......................... - - - 1875
McDonald, Luke.............,.............:Nov. 22, 1879
McDonald,. Wm. Henry.............. June 23, 1874
McElroy, John Henry.................. July 2, 1870
McGlashen, Chas. F ..................... Dec. 12, 1872
McKay, William.:.......................... Dec. 26, 1876
Mclure, Louis S..........................:Sept. 1, 1873
McMillan, Alexander Dougald.. - - 1879
MacDonald, Samuel...................... Feb. 19, 1873
MacMurdo, Wirt R ....................:Mar. 27, 1879
Malmgren, Niles Peter...............:Sept. 24, 1863
Marchi, Giovanni.. ......:................. - - 1876
Marckres, Harvey Austin.........:Jan. 3, 1867
Martens, George.,.......... :............... July 18, 1876
Martin, Russell Clinton................. Aug. 15, 1875
Marye, Jr., George Thomas.......... Mar. 21, 1872
Matheson, Robert .....-~......................June 16, 1873
Matson, Myron Shaw.............. ~ .... - - 1872
Matteson, David Edwin...:........:..Oct. 2, 1873
Mattingly, John Andrew.............. Mar. 21, 1879
Maxwell, George A .............:....... Nov. 25, 1871
Merrill, Albert Eugene.................May 3, 1869
Meserve, Frank Pierce................. - - 1877
Meservey, William Edmund........Feb. 3, 1872
Meyberg, Moritz............................ - _1875
Miles, Chas. S.............................1.. Apr. 21 , 1877

Lodge
La Parfaite Union No. 17
Pacific No. 136
San Mateo No. 226
Truckee No. 200
Eureka No. 16
Midway No. 426
Sunnyvale No. 511
Ponoma No. 246
Phoenix No. 178
Pentalpha No. 202
San Diego No. 35
Silver Trowel No. 415
South Gate No. 320
Truckee No. 200
San Pedro No. 332
Western Star No. 2
San Benito No. 211
South Gate No. 320
Reading No. 254
Garvanza No. 492
Mendocino No. 179
Truckee No. 200
South Gate No. 320
San Diego No. 35
Sincerity No. 132
Fullerton No. 339
Bakersfield No. 224
California No. 1
Speranza Italiana No. 219
Oakland No. 188
Azusa No. 305
Pentalpha No. 202
California No. 1
South Gate No. 320
Amador No. 65
Madison No. 23
Fresno No. 247
Hope No. 234
Hollywood No. 355
Redlands No. 300
Nevada No. 13
West Gate No.' 335
So. California No. 278

Name
Date
Miller, Robert Warren................ June 15, 1874
Milliken, Peter................................- - 1877
Mock, Arthur.................................. Sept. 18, 1880
Moir, John T ...:...........:................... Junc -, 1880
Morr~s, Noah:................................. Mar. 3, 1870
Morrison, Chas. H .......................- - 1879
Muirhead, John Scott.. ................. Nov. 27, 1878
Mullen, Joseph ............................... June 19, 1879
Murphy, William W .................. Mar. 11, 1870
Murray, John R. ........................... Sept. 17, 1873
Myers, John J ................................ Mar. 18, 1878
Newberry, George A .................~ - - 1870
Norrish, Joshua............................. Sept. 25, 1872
Northup, Eugene Daniel.. ............ Sept. 25, 1871
Nourse, John Thomas.................. Nov. 3, 1872
Orr, George Wesley...................... May-, 1871
Ould, John ........................................- - 1869
Ownby, Thomas Powell.............. May 20, 1876
Oyster, William..............................- - 1876
Paddock, Job Albert............... ~ ...... May ~4, 1880
Palmer, Ralph Bradbury.............. Sept. 18, 1877
Parker, Wm. Wallace.................. Jan. 16, 1879
Partridge, John ...............................Nov. 21, 1877
Pascoe, Thomas..............................- - 1879
Patten, Herbcrt............................... Mar. 2, 1876
Percival, Freeman Foster............. Aug. 24, 1862
Peters, Robert ................................ Oct. 26, 1869
Pierce, Chas. Sumner.................. Mar. 20, 1866
Pitman, Wm....................................- - 1877
Plummer, Amos W ....................... Apr. 30, 1873
Pound, Mandeville M ................... Sept. 11, 1871
Preble, George Edward................ Dec. 3, 1872
Pupka, Martin................................ Aug. 29, 1874
Rainey, Joseph Wesley .................. Mar. 15, 1866
Ralston, John Thurston ................ Oct. 1, 1879
Rankin, Robert................................July 11, 1878
Read, Wm. Miles................:......... Mar. 25, 1874
Reed, Alfred R ............................... July 2, 1879
Reinhart, John Graves ................- - 1875
Rhodes, Johnson Guy .................... Feb. 10, 1873
Rice, Drury White........................ Nov. 10, 1873
Richards, Addison W ...................Sept. 20, 1878
Rogers, Barnett G......................... Mar. 16, 1878

Lodge
South Gate No. 320
Perris No. 411
Oakland No. 188
Kilauea No. 330
Pomona No. 246
Howard No. 37
Golden Gate No. 30
Pomona No. 246
So. California No. 278
Sincerity No. 132
Drytown No. 174
Francis Drake No. 376
Friendship No. 210
Monrovia No. 308 ·
Santa Ana No. 241
Laurel No. 245
Amador No. 65
San Jose No. 10
Caledonia No. 486
Lomita No. 644
Clovis No. 417
Palms No. 512
Petaluma No. 180
So. California No. 278
Claremont No. 436
Liberty No. 299
Pentalpha No. 202
Pomona No. 246
Gardena No. 372
So. California No. 278
Redondo No. 328
Santa Ana No. 241
Burbank No. 406
San Jose No. 10
Redwood City No. 168
Howard No. 37
Santa Cruz No. 38
Pomona No. 246
Pentalpha No. 202
Fresno No. 247 '
Crescent No. 45
Claremont No. 436
Anaheim No. 207

49

50

PROCE~DINGS

OF THg
GRAND LODGI<: OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Date
Lodge
Rogers, Gilbert l_'hompson.......... Jan. 17, 1880 Silveyville No. 201
Rogers, Wi!liam. Jii.111es ...............,-· -.1878 Madison No. 23
Rolph, Samuel J®nson ..... ,.......... Apr. 20, 1875 Claremont No. 436
Rooney, Robert Fleming.............. Nov. 12, 1872 Eureka No. 16
Root, Jason B................................. Jan. -, 1871 Anaheim No. 207
Rouscup, Henry W.,......................Aug. 17, 1877 Burbank No. 406
Rowell, Georg~- Azro...... :............. Mar, 16, 1880 Santa Ana No. 241
Rozell, Dan.iel R. ............................ July, 14, 1866 So. California No. 278
Rury, William Isal\C,. .................. Nov. 16, 1878 Azusa No. 305
Ryan, Henry ~·-········-·· --·········-····--·Dec. 1, 1873 Woodland No. 156
Ryder, Apdrew ................................ Mar. 31, 1877 Monrovia No. 308
St. John, Marshall Bayles ...,.........,May 20, 1879 Friendship No. 210
Sanders, Edward ............................ Nov. 15, 1879 Reading No. 254 .
Scammon, Chas. ,Francis .............. Mar. 20, 1878 Los Gatos No. 292
Schave, Joseph.:.. ,........................... Mar. 6, 1880 York No. 423
Schocken, Solomon.._...........•.......... May 26, 1880 Temple No. 14
Schweizer, Frederic~ .........,............ May 22, 1875 Wilmington No. 198
Seaman, William W ..................... Aug. 15, 1879 So. California No. 278 ' ·
Seay, Robert Horsley......... ,.......... Sept. 26, 1874 South Pasadena No.. 367,
Seely, Mack Jay ..•.......................... 1876 Buckeye No. 195
Shackelford, Richard ..................... Dec. 24, 1868 Tehachapi No. 313
Shaw, L11c_ien.... ., ..,.......................... Apr. 25, 1875 So. California No. 278
Sheppard, Archibald ...................... Dec. 16, 1875 Delano No. 309
Shuford, John W(Q....................... Oct. 25, 1879 Trinity No. 27
Silvius, Samuel ...•............................ Apr. 11, 1873 Montebello No. 451
Simonson, Jo.hn Henry..........- ...... Dec. 4, 1871 Yosemite No. 99 ·
Skeel, Wm. &....................... _..,, ... _.. - - 1877 West Gate No. 335
Smith, Ezekial Ber.nard .............. Mar. 5, 1878 Santa Ana No. 241 - .
Smith, Geo. Wash~ngton .............. July 20, 1872 Fresno No. 247
Smith, Jr., Harry -a1Jrt...... :......... Nov. 25, 1879 Oriental No: 144
Smith, Horace Edwin .................. Oct: 9, 1874 Oakland No . . 188 ·
Smith, James Lambert... .....;......... Feb. 23, 1869 Durant No. 268
Smith, Richard Russell... ............. Jan. 26, 1880 San Joaquin -No. 19 , ··
· Smith, Spencer Monroe ...... :......... June 22, 1879 Libecty No. ·299
Smith, Wilber Wabtein ......... ~ .... Mar:-, 1873 Ontario No. 301
Sparks, Wm. Martin ..........:......... Mar. 20, 1880 Gold Hi!l No. 32
Starbuck, Henry F ............. :......... Dec. · 31, 1874 Jas. A. Foshay No. 641
Stevens, Chas. Warren ...... :......... Mar. 3, 1874 Redondo No. 328 ·
Steveils, Mark. ....................... :......... Mar. 23, 1872 P<J.lestine No. 351
Stevenson, Chas·-··· ···---~-------;, ........ Nov. 12, 1.873 Beacon-West No. 628
Stine, Isaac !)......._:.: .......... .',.::........•.June 15, 1~65 South Gate No. 320
Sutherland, David M......... :..,...,.. Feb. 9, 1880 Sunset No. ~ 352
Swinford, Edwin ............................ May - , 1880 Colusa No. 240

Name
Date
Taber, Floyd...................... ,............. Aug. 20, 1872
Talcott, Josiah S ........................... Dec. 31, 1870
Tandy, George W ......................... May 4, 1880
Tanner, Walter .............................. Feb. -, 1876
Taylor, Martin Van Buren ........... - - 1867
Tebbetts, James Henry .................. Mar. 22, 1880
Terrass, Milford Byron................- - 1874
Terry, Joel Newton ...................... Feb. 6, 1866
Thompson, Edwin R. .................... Feb. 21, 1879
Thompson, Milton James ............. Mar. 1, 1876
Towzy, William John .................. June 12, 1869
Tubbs, Jerome F ......................... June 21, 1873
Tuck, Chas. Edward .................... May -, 1872
Turner, Joseph ................................ Jan. 2, 1874
Van Doren, John S ..................... June 21, 1870
Vaughan, Warren Briggs .......... Mar. 5, 1878
Wadleigh, George Hutchinson ..... - - 1873
Walker, John Alfred .................... Apr. 28, 1874
Ward, Martin Luther .................. Apr. 8, 1880
Wardlow, John Townsend .......... Sept. 28, 1875
Waterman, Wm. Fred .................. June 19, 1871
Watson, George .............................. July 18, 1877
Watson, Wm. V............................. - - 1868
Weldon, Arthur .............................. July 16, 1880
Wellington, Elroy Mitchell .......... May 13, 1871
Wharff, Wm. Hatch ...................... Nov. 1, 1870
Wheelan, Frank M ....................... - - 1878
Whicher, John .................................. Oct. 4, 1879
Whitaker, George Allen .............. June 6, 1879
Whittall, Thomas Davis .............. Aug. 30, 1871
Widby, Thomas J ......................... Mar. 24, 1877
Wilson, Sr., David Donald ............- - 1877
Wilson, James .................................. Feb. 28, 1876
Winne, William Henry ................ Sept. -, 1863
Wolflin, George H .. ,...................... - - 1879
Woodard, Lester ............................ Sept. 20, 1873
Woodward, Oscar J ..................... June 25, 1875
·. Wright, Francis Marion .............. - - - 1875
Wright, Wm. C. ............................ Apr. 13, 1878
Yingling, Winfield Scott... ............ Jan. 2, 1879
. Young, Andrew......... ,. ....................Aug. 8, 1871
Young, John Wm ........... :............... .] an. 19, 1872

51

Lodge
Table Mountain No. 124
Santa Ana No. 241
Landmark No. 253
Pomona No. 246
Santa Ana No. 241
San Benito No. 211
Phoenix No. 178
Golden State No. 358
San Diego No. 35
Colusa No. 240
Las Palmas No. 366
Carpinteria No. 444
Pacific Grove No. 331
Northern Light No. 190
So. California No. 278
South West No. 283
Pentalpha No. 202
San Buenaventura No.214
South West No. 283
Sincerity No. 132
Exeter No. 424
San Diego No. 35
Redlands No. 300
San Fernando No. 343
Santa Ana No. 241
Durant No. 268
Pentalpha No. 202
King David's No. 209
Caledonia No. 268
Durant No. 268
San Jose No. 10
Penrhyn No. 258
Trinity No. 27
Woodland No. 156
Thousand Oaks No. 478
Charity No. 362
Fresno No. 247
San Fernando No. 343
Las Palmas No. 366
Santa Ana No. 241
Wilmington No. 198
So. California No. 278

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

53

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

lace Merriewether Gordon, William Albert Sherwin, David Monroe
Harris Justus Henry Henkes, Harold Janss, Thomas A~amson Watson, E~nest A. Lorton, A. Harold Wilkins.

Representatives Appointed
Since the last annual communication, the Grand Master has
caused commissions to be issued to distinguished Brethren as Rep.r esentatives of the Grand Lodge of California, as follows :
November 12, 1929, to Vela Frank, near the Grand Lodge of
Vienna. Brother Frank died M~y 19, 1930, and at the request of the
Grand Master of Vienna, Brother Dr. Oscar Frankl was on July 17,
1930, appointed our Representative.'
December 12, 1929, to Ge.o rge St. V . Harris, near the Grand
Lodge of England.
July 2, 1930, to C. A. Carlson, Jr., near the Grand Lodge of
Nevada.
The Independent and Regular Grand Lodge of France has appointed our Past Master Henry Mottet as its Representative near the
Grand Lodge of California.
The Grand Master of England has appointed William Rhodes
Harvey as Representative of the Grand Lodge of England near the
Grand Lodge of California.
New Lodges
Altadena Lodge, Altadena. Dispensation issued April 30, 1929.
(Reported 1929, page 451.)
Willow Glen Lodge, Willow C:len, Santa Clara County. Dispensation issued November 15, 1929. Master, Thornton Delos Webster ;
Senior Warden, Laurence L. Gott; Junior Warden, Harry Burres;
and John Warren Davis, William Barnett Puterbaugh, Joseph Robert
Green, Luther Charles Rossi, Edward Aestas Costello, Paul Fenimore Clark, Chester Elwood Dunn, Verne Bennett Tow'er, Albertus
Rogerson Webster, Edwin Eugene Hunter, Oscar Le~ Oliver, Walter
S. Carey, Lloyd Chase Maynard, George Jonas Polson, Roiger Gel ting Hansen, Chester Rey Moody, James Henry Heil, Almer William
Laederich, Roscoe Albert Whiffen, Merton Royal Smith, Lesley
Amos Thomas.
Liberal Arts Lodge (Westwood) Los Angeles. Dispensation issued
July 24, 1930. Master, Ira F. Tho~pson; Senior Warden, Reynold
E. Blight; Junior Warden, Frank Reinsch; James Willard Marsh,
Clarence Hall Robison, Edward Lee Roy Wallace, Robert Benjamin
Campbell, Charles Henry Dodds, Marlowe Clarence Janss, Gilbert
Armand McElroy, Jr., Harry Munson Showman, Frederick Mason
Carey, Grant Ellsworth Meyer, Lombard Joseph Smith, Hurford
Elza Stone, Stephen William Cunningham, Fred Hyde Oster, Wal-

Meetings on Holidays
There appears to be much misunderstanding reg~rding the
amendment last year to Section 1 of Article III of the Uniform Code
of By-Laws, and members generally do not know, or remember, just
what holidays are excepted from stated meeting dates. I reco~men~
that either the amendment of 1929 be repealed or that certain holidays be specifically named in the Section, so that all Lodges will be
definitely advised.
Change of Lodge Name
Peninsula Lodge No. 620 has petitioned to change its name to
Point Loma Lodge, and the petition has been placed with the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Trial Records
No. 189-Petition for restoration from a member of Delano
Lodge No. 309. Suspended in 1916.
No.· 302-Petition for restoration from a member of Fillmore
Lodge No. 379. Expelled in 1922.
No. 476-Petition for restoration from a member of South Gate
Lodge No. 320. Expelled in 1923.
No. 573-Petition for restorati~ from a member of Euclid Lodge
No. 519. Expelled February 3, 1930.
No. 578---A corrected record of Oak Grove Lodge No. 215. Expelled May 1, 1930.
No. 615-\letrial, Northern Light Lodge No. 190. Expelled December 14, 1929.
No. 630-Retrial, George Washington Lodge No. 525. Expelled
April 1, 1930.
No. 638---Two members of El Dorado Lodge No. 26. Suspended
September 12, 1929.
.
No. 639-A member of Ashlar Lodge No. 306. Expelled September 15, 1929.
No. 640-A member of El Dorado Lodge No. 26. Expelled No-

•.

vember 14, 1929.
No. 641-A member of Exeter Lodge No. 424. Expelled.
No. 642-A member of Fairmount Lodge No. 435. Expelled
January 7, 1930.

ht

l'llOCMl•:l>JNOS OF THE

N1 ° 643-A member of Mount Davidson Lodge No. 481.

Ex-

pelled February 3, 1930.
No. 644-A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Expelled November 12, 1929.
No. 645-A member of Standard Lodge No. 440, tried by Live
Oak .Lo~ge No. 61. Expelled February 7, 1930.
No. 646-A member of Visalia Lodge No. 128. Expelled March
13, 1930.
.
No. 647-A member of Naval Lodge No. 87. Expelled May 22
193~
.
'
No. 648-A Fellow Craft of Occidental Lodge No. 22. Tried by
Crockett Lodge No. 139, acquitted .May 7, 1930. Appealed by the
accuser.
No. 649-A member of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42. Expelled
June 2, 1930.
No. 650-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Expelled June
6, 1930.
No. 651-A member of Antioch Lodge No. 175. Tried by El
Dorado Lodge No. 26. Expelled June 12, 1930.
No. 652-Three members of Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389. Tried
by Southern California Lodge No. 278. Two suspended and one
reprimanded. Appealed by the accusers.
No. 653-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Expelled J!Jne
1, 1930.
No. 654-A member of West Lake Lodge No. 392. Expelled
May 2, 1930.
No. 655-A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Expelled July 3
193~
'
No. 656---A member of Composite Lodge No. 639.' Suspended
July 7, 1930.
·No. 657-A member of Composite Lodge No. 639. Suspended
April 7, 1930. Appealed by the accused.
No. 658---A member of Cori~thian . Lodge No. 9. Suspended December 4, 1929.
No. 659-A member of Searchlight Lodge No. 567. Expelled
April 1, 193Qo.
No. 660-A member of Foothill Lodge No. 564. Expelled June 5,
1930.
No. 661-A member of Utopia Lodge No. 537. Reprimand, May
2, 1930. Appealed by the accuser.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

55

No. 662-A member of Sanger Lodge No. 316. Suspended June
26, 1930.
No. 663-A member of Santa Ana Lodge No. 241. Expelled
September 3, 1930.
No. 664-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled September 4, 1930.
No. 665-A member of Southland Lodge No. 618. Expelled
July 3, 1930.
·
No. 666---A member of Southern California L odge No. 278. Expelled September 8, 1930.
No. 667-A member of Salinas Lodge No. 204. Expelled September 19, 1930.
No. 668---A member of Fruitvale L odge No. 336. Expelled
September 6, 1930.
·
No. 669-A member of Service Lodge No. 594. E~pelled October 3, 1930.
No. 670-A member of Sunset Lodge No. 352. Expelled September 2, 1930.
No. 577-Petition for restoration from a member of Woodstock
No. 491. Suspended 1928.
Life Memberships
Tlie Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life
mi:mberships as fo llows:
Molino No. 150, $200; Woodland No. 156, $150; Downey No. 220,
$200;' Moncta No. 405, $200 ; Culver City No. 467, $200; Loyalty No.
529, $200 ; Signal No. 543, $150; Alexander Graham Bell No. 595,
$175; Alta Loma No. 643, $150; Benevolence No. 631, $200.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master has approved requests for special dispensations for various purposes, as follows:
To re-ballot upon candidates rejected within twel·ve months:
Visalia No. 128; Wilmington No, 198; Anaheim No. 207; Friendship No. 210; Laurel No. 245; Paso Robles No. 286; Parnassus No.
388 (2) ; Seal Rock No. 536; Seaport No. 550; Argonaut No. 561;
Foothill No. 564; Guardian No. 596; Menorah No. 623 ; Fortitude No.
624; Livingston No. 658; Fairview No. 629; Henry Knox No. 662.
To elect officers at a time other thai~ that fixed by law:
Bear Mountain No. 76; Rose's Bar No. 89; Clinton No. 119;
Curtis No. 140; Athens No. 228; Landmark No. 253; Lodi No. 256;
Snow Mountain No. 271; Maxwell No. 288; Redlands No. 300; Sanger

56

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THJO:

No. 316; Golden State No. 358; San Francisco No. 360; Fraternity
No. 399 ; York No. 423; Albert Pike No. 484; Lebanon No. 495; Joppa
No. 508; Ionic No. 520; West Adams No. 565; El Cajon Valley
No. 576.
To receive and act upon petitions from members of the Army and
Navy who did not have the req14ired residential q11alifications:

San Diego No. 35; Vallejo No. 487; Service No. 594 (2); Normal
Heights No. 631; Los Cerritos No. 674.
Amendments to By-Laws
Changing time of stated meetings: Athens No. 228; Covelo No.
231; Santa Ana No. 241 ; Exeter No. 424; Tyrian No. 439; Torrance
No. 447 ; Garvania No. 492; Silver Cord No. 5C·5; Ascot No. 538 ;
Henry Morse Stephens No. 541; Pyramid No. 562; All States No.
593; Benevolence No. 631; James A. Foshay No. 641; Baldwin Park
No. 660; Ojai No. 663; Reseda No. 666.
Excepting holidays as stated meetings : Section 1, Article III:· San
Joaquin No. 19; Sacramento No. 40 ; Los Angeles No. 42; Morning
Star No. 68; Naval No. 87; St. Helena No. 93; Pajaro No. 110; Excelsior No. 166; Redwood City No. 168; Mission No. 169; Keith No.
187; Anaheim No. 207; Inyo No. 221; Solano No. 229; Bakersfield
No. 224; Alcatraz No. 244; Anchor No. 273 ; East Gate No. 290 ;
Traver No. 294; Liberty No. 299 ; Santa Monica No. 307; Whittier
No. 323; Long Beach No. 327; Alta No. 333 ; Fruitvale No. 336; Palo
Alto No. 346; Buena Park No. 357; Berkeley No. 363; Veteran No.
373; Mizpah No. 378; Highland Park No. 382; Apollo No.
396; Fraternity No. 399; Burlingame No. 400; Bay View No. 401 ;
Yerba Buena No. 403; Eagle Rock No. 422; York No. 423 ; Alpha No. 431; Standard No. 440; Blackmer No. 442; San
Pasquale No. 452; Bethlehem No. 453 ; Paul Revere No. 462;
Yorba Linda No. 469; Delta No. 471; Thousand Oaks No. 478;
Golden Rule No. 479; Clarence F. Smith No. 482; Albert Pike No.
484; Caledonia No. 486; Vallejo No. 487; East Bay No. 489; Woodstock No. 491; Fremont No. 497; Stockton No. 498; Capital City No.
499 ; Cahuenga No. 513; Bellfl.ower No. 523; Covenant No. 527;
Alexandria No. 531; Ascot No. 538; Queen Beach No. 540; . Signal
No. 543; San Gabriel No. 546; Lakeshore No. 551; East San Diego
No. 561 ; West Adams No. 565; Searchlight No. 567; Chateau Thierry
No. 569; All States No. 593; Service No. 594 ; Alexander Graham Bell
No. 595; Carmelita No. 599; Lynwood No. 600; Dimond No. 603;
Elmhurst No. 610; Larchmont No. 614; The Gardens No. 621; Beacon
of the West No. 628; Fairview No: 629; Be~evolence No. 631; John
Marshall No. 636; Indian Rock No. 638; Veritas No. 640; Menlo Park
No. 651; John D . Spreckels No. 657; Henry Knox No. 662; Oasis
No. 664.

67

Increasing dues: Santa Cruz No. 38, to $15 ; Henry Clay No. 95,
to $12; Santa Barbara No. 192, to $27; Magnolia No. 242, to $27;
Laurel No. 245, to $18; Sunset No. 352, to $18; Unity No. 368, to
$18; Francis Drake No. 376, to $12; Palos Verdes No. 389, to
$12; Carpinteria No. 444, to $16; Wilshire No. 445, to $24; Culver
City No. 4-07, to $12; Patterson No. 488, to $12; Glendale No. 544,
to $18; Lakeshore No. 551, to $15; Manchester No. 585, to $12;
Escalon No. 591, to $12; Beacon of the West No. 628, to $12; Henry
Knox No. 662, to $12; Meridian No. 667, to $18.
bicreasing fees : Humboldt No. 79, to $75; Carpinteria No. 444,
to $75; Patterson No. 488, to $75; Semper Virens No. 552, to $75;
Peninsula No. 621, to $75; Malta No. 661, to $100; Los Cerritos No.
674, to $105.
Decreasing d11es : Moneta No. 405, $12.00.
D ecreasing fees : Gravel Range No. 59, to $55; Chico No. 111,
to $50; Los Gatos No. 292, to $50; Santa Monica No. 307, to $80;
Acacia No. 438, to $100; Palisades No. 637, to $80.
Fixing and increasing fees for affiliation: Pajaro No. 110, to $1.00;
Inyo No. 221, to $5; Alta No. 333, to $5.
R ed14Citig affiliation fees : Plumas No. 60, to $2.50; Lakeshore No.
551, to $5; Henry Knox No. 662, to $10.
Eliminating affiliation fee: Chico No. 111; Burbank No. 406; Carpinteria .No. 444; Vermont Square No. 515; Atwater No. 622; Ojai
No. 663.

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

59

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Experts

Exhibit A
SEPTEMBER 27,

1930.

To the Finance Committee, Grand Lodge of California.
Following your authorization we have audited the accounts of the
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California for the fiscal year ended July 31,
1930. We present herewith the attached statements:
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit B:

Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes.

Exhibit C:

Emeq~·ency Relief

Exhibit D:
bursements.
Exhibit E:

Fund.

Grand Treasurer's Report of Cash Receipts and DisSchedule of Assets.

Comments
The audit covered an examination of the cash funds received during
the year ended July 31, 1930. In the case of annual returns received
from the various Lodges, the cash received was applicable to the annual
reports for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1929, and did not cover any
moneys received on account of annual returns or reports for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1930. Cash received reported as dues from the
Lodges for the year under review, total $129,978.43, of which $1.63 was
for the prior period. These total receipts were proved with the total
membership and all such funds were completely accounted for.
We certify that the attached statements were compiled from the
books of account and records of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of
California.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL & LAND, Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

Cash Receipts and Disbursements-Grand Secretary
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1930
General Fund
Cash Balance, August 1, 1929................................................................ $42;312.93
Receipts ..
Dues from Lodges .................................................................................. 129,97"8.43
250.00
150.00
Dispensation from new Lodges ......................................................... .
290.00
Dispensation for various purposes ........... ,.,.:, ..................... ,............ .
Premiums collected on Secretary's and Treasurer's bonds ....... . 2,016.90

Cl1arter fees ........................................................................................... .

Sales:
Constitutions ................................................................$5,048.60
Monitors ........................................................................ 1,517.80
Lodge receipts .............................................................. 1,159.30
Blanks ............................................................................ 510.82
Small diplomas ........................................................... . 677.94
Large diplomas ........................................................... . 334.50
Past Masters' diplomas ............................................. . 112.15
22.95
Card cases and lists of Lodges .............................. :.. .
34.75
Installation services and proceedings ......................
Bound volumes and funeral services ....................... . 342.50
Masonic Law and Custom and sundry .......... :.... :... . 303.25
Uniform system of accounting ............................... . 608.85
Interest on note of Drytown Lodge ........ :... :.................................... .
Principal on note, Chowchilla Lodge ............................................... .
Refunds and Reimbursements:
San Francisco Board of Relief... .............................$ 553.35
Los Angeles Board of Relief... ...... :.......................... 869.00
Bakersfield Board of Relief......................................
10.00
Honolulu Board of Relief.......................................... 193.75
Refund Representatives' mileage .............................. 2,712.26

10,673.41
20.00
100.00

4,338.36

Total receipts received direct by Grand Secretary............$147,817.10
Bank interest ..................................................... .'.... .'........'....................... 2,822.78
Bond int~rest and dividends on stock. .. '..'. .................. :.'.................... 10,038.42
Sale of ._(S) Central Arizona Light and Power Co. bonds.......... 5,268.75
$ 18,129.95
To_tal receipts to account for general fumL ................. :.... $208,~59.98

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

60

PROCEEDI~GS

61

OF THE

Exhibit B

Disburseme11ts
Salaries ........................................................................................·............$ 21,220.00
Printing and 'birtding-office use..........................;.........;..................: 6,195.75
Printing and 1linding-for sales.......................................................... 7,687.39
Contingent expense-Grand Lecturer................................................ 1;342.65
Office rent ......................................................................................:....... 3,915.00
Postage .....,..........................................:................................................... 1,327.50
Appropriations by Grand Lodge........................................................ 46,013.04
Telephone and telegrams......................................................................
242.93
Drayage and express.........................................................................,..,..... 129.78
Office expense .........................................................................................
665.11
Premiums on Secretary's and Treasurer's bonds............................ 1,707.70
Payroll, Representatives (net payroll $22,315.84) ........................ 25,028.10
Committee-Masonic Education ...................,.................................... 5,367.42
Committee-Masonic History· ............................................................ 1,056.52
Committee-Board of Control............................................................
497.81
Committee-Public Schools Week......................................................
759.70
Sundry expenses, Annual Communications.....................................
286.40
Annual Grand Lodge week activities ...............................................: 4,142.50
Annual East Bay Masters and Wardens.........................................,
100.00
Los Angeles Board of Relief..............................................................
175.00
366.04
Grand Lodge-Officers' expenses......................................................
Office furniture and fixtures.............................................................. 2,221.78
Office alterations .................................................................................. 2,268.31
Miscellaneous ................................................._......................................... 1,122.31
Buttons-Fifty Year Veterans...1...................................................... 1,296.00
Grand Masters' conference..................................................................
50.00
George Washington National Memorial.......................................... 27,480.20
Grand Master's portrait~·-·······················································.............
185.00
Reimbursements-Alhambra Lodge No. 322...... ,.............................
355.50
Relief-Order of Grand Master........................................................
315.00
514.77
Special Relief-Order of Grand Master........................................
943.75
Grand Lodge regalia~--·-··········-················ ............................................ ·
Grand Secretary's office expense-Los Angeles............................
413.00
50.00
Library ··········-····-····-········-,................................................................
Special Committee · expense................................................................,.
50.00
Securities Purchased : ·
75 shares Masonic Temple stock..............................$ 750.00
5 Central Arizona Light and Power bonds, 5% 4,812.50
5,562.50
Total disbursements .....................:............................................$171,054.46
Cash Balance, July 31, 1930..........................,.......................,.............$ 37,205.52
Consisting o'f: Cash Balance with .Grand Treasurer ...........,......$ 36,705.52
Revolving Fund with Grand Secretary............
500.00
$ 37,205.52

Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1930
Per capita tax, Maintenance Fund....................................................$ 34,350.25
Per capita tax, Building Fund............................................................ 68,700.50
From Initiations:
Current, $25.00 for each initiate..........................$176,175.00
Prior year, $20.00 for each initiate....................
20.00 176,195.00
Total collected for Masonic Homes ......................................$279,245.75
Exhibit c
Emergency Relief Fund
1930
Cash Account
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31,

Cash:
Balance on hand, July 31, 1929....................................................$ 13,591.01
Receipts
Bank interest ........................................................................ $550.46
690.46
Bond interest ......................................................................... 140.00
Cash balance on hand, July ~l, 1930........ :...........................$ 14,281.47
S ec11-rities Accoutit
$4,000.00-First Liberty Loan Bonds................................................ 4,000.00
Total cash and securities-Emergency Relief Fund..................$ 18,281.47
Cash Receipts From Annual Returns
FROM AUGUST 1 TO OCTOBER 4, 1930
General Fund, Grand Lodge................................................................$137,598.10
Home Maintenance Fund...................................................................... 35,151.50
Home Building Fund............................................................................ 70,303.00
$25.00 Home Tax (net) ........................................................................ 45,150.00
Total collected which includes 4th quarter of
$25.00 Home Tax only..........................................................$288,202.60

82

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'IUH'IClCl>INlll 111" 'l'lll!:

Analy1l1 of Annual R1turn1
I nltlatlon~
l,H•l'1l
Ral•t'd

63

Exhibit D

... $ 5,832.00
6,036.00
....................................... _......... 6,215.00

REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER

Total degrees conferred at $1.00 each ..................................$ 18,083.00
Tot~I Master Masons October 1, 1930 ..........$142,062.00
Less dues remitted .......... :...............................
1,456.00
Total Master Masons at 85 cents each ........ $140,606.00 $119,515.10
Total Grand Lodge dues ............................................................$137,598.10
140,606 Master Masons at SOc Home Buildil,'lg ................................$ 70,303.00
140,606 Master Masons at 25c Home Maintenance........................ 35,151.50
5,832 Initiations
612 Affiliations outside jurisdictions ..
15 E. A. and F. C. outside jurisdictions

Cash Receipts and Disbursements
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUL.II 31, 1930
Cash balance on hand, August· 1, 1929..............................................$ 41,812.93
Revolving Fund ..................................................................... ,.... ,.........
500.00
Receipts
Grand Secretary ..,........................................................ :$147,817.10
Bank interest .................................................................. 2,822.78
Bond interest ................................................... :.............. 7,096.92
Dividend-Masonic Temple stock.............................. 2,941.50
Sale (5) Central Arizona Light and Power Co.
bonds ..............................................................,.......... 5,268.75

Total receipts ....................................... :....................................$165,947.05
6,459 upon whom the $25.00 Home Tax is payable .................. 161,925.00
Total to account for ..................................................................$208,259.98
$404,977.60
Less overpayment on Home Tax ....................... c.................
450.00
Tota.I collected Home Tax a':1d Annual Returns ........... .....$404,527.60
.
Gains and Losses, Annual Returns, 1930
Master Masons, July 31 , 1929.:., .................... '. ...·......'.......................... 138:652
Raised during the year.. ....:....... .. ! ...... ...................... ...... . 6,215
Affilia~es from foreign. jurisdictions.......................... 612
Affiliates from Californ ia Lodges............................ 959
Restored ......'...................................................................... 279
Gained by error in _previous reports........................
15
8,080
Total gained ........................ ........................................................ 146,732
Withdrawals ................................................................... . 1,220
Suspended, non-payment . of dues~.... ~: ....................... .. 1,734
Expelled or suspended for cause ............................ ,.
34
Died ................................................................................. . 1;638
Lost by ertor .................................................................. ..
44
4,670
Master Masons, Oct. 1, 1930, including Lodges U. D...
Master Masons, Oct. 1, 1929..............................................

142,062
138,652

Net gain for the year 1930..................................................

3,410

JOHN WHJCHER, Grand Sccretar)•.

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

Disbursements
Grand Secretary's warrants ........................................$165,491.96
Sccu rities Purchased :
5 Central Arizona Light and Power
Co. bonds, 5% ........................................$4,812.50
75 shares Masonic Temple stock.......... 750.00 5,562.50

Total disbursements ....................................:...........................$171,054.46
Cash balance on hand, July 31, 1930:
San Francisco Savings & Loan Society ............$ 9,689.54
Wells Fargo Union Trust Co............................ . 1,327.93
Crocker First National Bank ................................ 5,647.75
Humboldt Branch, Bank of America .................. 3,783.07
Anglo California Trust Co .................................. . 16,257.23
Revolving Fund ..................................................... .
500.00 $ 37,205.52

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

65

Exhibit E

Assets

Schedule of Assets
JULY 31, 1930

lht ~rauh 1£nhgr

Cash. in. bank and Revolving Fund ................ :...................................$ 37 ..?0S.52
Public Utility Bonds at Cost:
$ 7,000.00 Blue Lakes Water Co ............ :6%
$ 7,700.00
6,000.00 Southern Pacilic Co.................4%
5.580.00
9,000.00 California Gas & Elec. Co...5%
8,550.00
8,000.00 Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co...........5%
8,000.00
2,000.00 Los Angeles Gas & Elec. Co... 5% .
1,860.00
4,000.00 Los Angeles Gas & Elec. Co.. SY,%
3,935.00
5,000.00 Los Angeles Gas & Elec. Co...6%
5,068.75
5,000.00 Southern Calif. Edison Co.:... 5%
4,562.50
5,000.00 Southern California Gas Co... SY,%
4,787.50
10,000.00 Philadelphia Electric Co.........4Y, %
9,925.00
9,000.00 Pacific Gas & Electric Co .......SY,%
8,946.25
5,000.00 Pacific Gas & Electric Co....... 5%
4,720.00
4,000.00 Calif. Oregon Power Co.......SY,%
3,970.00
4,000.00 Great Western Power Co .......SY,%
3,950.00
5,000.00 East Bay Water Co................. 5%
4,825.00
5.000.00 San Joaquin Lt. & Pr. Corp... 5%
4,912.50
5,000.00 Central Arizona Light &
Power Corp...........................5%
4,812.50
10,000.00 New York Telephone Co........ .4Y, %
10,000.00 106,105.00
U. S. Liberty Loan Bonds at Par :
1st Liberty Loan-converted ..................4y.( % . $ 1,000.00
2nd Liberty Loan-converted ................. .4y.( %
15,300.00
4th Liberty Loan ........................................4y.( %
30,056.25

46,356.25

Masonic Tempie Association stock......................
$5,000.00 Mercantile American Realty Co~ ............

588,800.00
4,912.50

Capital Account
Balance, August 1, 1929............................'1 ..................$787,911.68
Decrease for fisca l year............................................ 4,532.41 * $783,379.27
*Red.
WI LLIAM

P. FrLMP.:R, Grand T reasurer.

Referred to Finance Committee.
Grand Lodge wa s then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

Tuesday, October 14, 1930.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND MASTER'S
MESSAGE
To the M ." .W." .Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the Annual Address of
the M.".W.".Grand Master has had the same under consideration
and herewith submit the following report:
Your Committee has carefully read with great interest the
Annual Message of the Grand Master and compliment him upon his
effort in the preparation of the same. It is, in the opinion of your
Committee, one of the most notable addresses ever presented to this
Grand Lodge. T hose of you who are fortunate enough to personally
know our Grand Master can recognize his virile personali ty in the
manner in which he renders the report of his stewardship. The clear
and vigorous manner in which the Grand Master presents his suggestions, conclusions and recommendations in respect to matters
vital to the progr ess and welfare of our Institution is its outstanding
merit.
Your Committee recommends that the following portions of the
Grand Master's message be referred to the following committees:
Grand S ecretary : To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the Finance Committee.
The George Wa.shington Memorial Association: To the Finance
Committee.
Funeral Ritual: To the Ritual Committee.
Petitions for Partirnlar Jurisdiction: To the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Masonic History: To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the Finance Committee.
Masonic Library of Soi~thern Calif ornia : To the Committee ·on
Policy and General Purposes.
Dispensat.fons, To Form New Lodges: To the Committee on Charters.

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Officers' Clubs: To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to the Committee on )tirisprudence and to the Finance Committee.

a matter of sincere regret that he was unable to visit each and every
Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction. Wherever he has gone, the brethren
learned to love him and were inspired not only by his words but by
his very presence. However, we are at a loss to understand how he
was able to make as many visi tations as he did, for the duties of
Grand Master are many and arduous and leave little time for direct
contact with the Craft.
Masonic Homes and Club Houses-If the Masonic Fraternity of
California was responsible for nothing else than the establishment
and maintenance of the Masonic Homes and Club H ouses at Berkeley
and Los Angeles, its existence would be justified. It is hoped that
the Craft will at all times lend every effort and make any and a ll
sacrifices necessary for the perpetuation and adequate maintenance
of these great monuments to Masonry.
Officers' Clubs-Your Committee is in hearty accord with all
that the Grand Master says in regard to Officers' Clubs or Associations and recommend to the incoming Grand Master a continuance
of our present Grand Master's policy in relation thereto. We are
convinced that great good can come therefrom and that they will
prove of great benefit to the Officers of the Districts, to the Inspectors
and to the Craft at large.
The recommendation of the Grand Master in respect to amending Section 137 of the Co nstitution meets with the hearty approval
of your Committee. We believe that were Wardens required to
qualify on Masonic Law they woul d be better prepared to properly
perform their duties.
Public Schools Week-Too much cannot be said in r egard to
the observance of Public Schools Week. Our Free Public Schools are
the very foundatiqn stone of our Nation. Your Committee joins
with.. our Grand Master in requesting that you lend careful ear to
the report of our Committee on Public Schools Week.
Widows and Orphans Funds-Your Committee respectfully but
earnestly urges that the Committees to which is referred that portion of the Gra nd Master's report dealing with Widows and Orphans
F unds, give the same careful consideration and that this Grand Lodge
in no uncertain terms take definite action in relation thereto.
Your Committee has sketched these points, but briefly. There
are many others that might well be mentioned; but we realize that
the message of the Grand Master stands far above our power to add
to or detract from its power or clarity. The Fraternity has been particularly fortunate in the happy choice of our present Grand Master.
His sterling worth as a citizen, his exemplary character, his devotion
to the cause of Masonry and all m ankind are so well known to you

Deg1·ee Teams: To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
S11spensio11 and Restoration of a Master: To the Committee on
Jurisprudence.
Westgat~ Lodge Matter: To the Committee on Juris.prudence.
Misrepresr.ntatio11 in Petitions: To the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Transcripts of Trial .R ecords: To the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and Committee on Jurisprudence.
Long Beach Temple Matter: To· Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

The Educational Program: . To the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and the Finance Committee.
Maso1;ic Homes: To the Finance Committee.
Politics: To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Claims Against Widows and Orphans Funds: To the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes.
Dual Membe,-ship: To the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes and to th e Committee on Jurisprudence.
Expenses of Grand Master: To the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and to the Finance Committee.
It might be deemed proper for this Committee to stop here with
the completion of the sirnple task of referring to the appropriate
Committees of Grand Lodge sections of the message which properly
go to them for extended consideration, discussion and report; but
we feel that we may without impropriety and solely for purposes of
emphasis, point out certain portions which appear to us to he of
special importance. In so doing, we do not' intend in any manner to
usurp the powers or prerogatives of said Committees, but rather to
submit to them our thoughts in regard to th e matters hereinafter
discussed and, if this report is adopted, your concurrence therewith.
Masonic Growth-W~ note with satisfaction, rather than with
alarm, that our net growth is smaT! as compared with previous years.
For several years, last past, we have been so busy making "members"
that we have had little, if any, time to devote to making "Masons"
out. of the members we already have. It is to be hoped that the
Lodges have and will take advantage of the partial shutting down
of the "Degree Mill."
Visitations- Your Committee read with great interest that portion of the Gram! Master's report, dealing with his visitations. It is

67

lill

PHOCEEDJNGS OF THE

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

all that no comment of ours could add more luster to his name or
endear him more to the Craft he has so faithfully served. Suffice to
say that he is indeed a man, a Mason and a true friend.

ANNUAL ORATION

W. STEPHENSON,
T. FRASER,

DWIGHT
]AMES

CHARLES BAER.

Adopted.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON GRAND
SECRETARY'S REPORT
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee to which has been referred the report of the
Grand Secretary begs leave to report as follows:
We congratulate Brother John Whicher upon the completion of
his twenty-third year in the office of Grand Secretary, and we congratulate the Grand Lodge upon having so capable, able and painstaking a servant in that 'e xacting office for over a score of years.
The present report reflects the attention to detail, the comprehensive thoroughness and the signal ability which has characterized
Brother Whicher's conduct of. his office throughout the years.
Grand Masters may come and Grand Masters may go, but it is
fortunate that our Grand Secretary goes on forever. Indeed, he may
well be referred to as the "Grand Old Man of Grand Lodge."
Your Committee recommends reference of the several sections of
the report as follows:
Petition for E.o:clush1e Jurisdiction: To the Committee on Juris~
prudence.
New Lodges: To the Committee on Charters.
Meetings on Holidays: To the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
Change of Lodge Name : To the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Trial Records: To the Committee on Grievances.
Li'fe Memberships: To the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Dispensations Issued: To the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Amendments to By-Laws: Committee on By-Laws.
Financial Report: To the Committee on Finance.

W. STEPHENSON,
T. FRASER,

DWIGHT
]AMES

CHAS. BAER.

Adopl'ed.

69

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Distinguished Past Grand Masters,
Officers and Brethren of the Grand Lodge of Masons of California.
In accordance with honored custom the 81st communication of
the Grand Lodge pauses in its deliberations to listen to a message
from its Grand Orator.
Because of the honor bestowed on me one year ago by our
Most Worshipful Grand Master, I appear today as your Orator,
and I trust all present will believe and understand that I approach
this moment with due humility, realizing that in addressing the select
men of 580 Lodges, representing 144,000 good men and true who
constitute the body Masonry in this great State of California, that
proverbially speaking I am "carrying coal to Newcastle."
While I am sincerely grateful for the high honor which this
h~ur affords I am also deeply moved in the august presence of
these honor~d Most Worshipful Past Grand Masters, who, each in
his time guided our destinies with a wisdom and foresight that has
made our great Brotherhood the most honorable and respected institution in this glorious State.
We feel a great pride in our affiliation with this Brotherhood,
and well we may, for nothing in history furnishes a parallel to its
unselfish purpose in behalf of mankind or its universality. It is said
to exist where Christianity has not gone, and its claims are respected
where even the superior claims of religion would fail. May not the
reason for this be found in the fact that Masonry is neither a religion nor a cult, yet it has consistently guarded the one essential
of religion, namely, that great Central Truth, that God lives and
is the universal Father of all mankind, and as such, we are the
object of his love and mercy and entitled to equal considerations as
members of the same great family.
Permit me to carry you back a few brief moments to review in
retrospect the struggle and the evolution of man out of the abyss
of darkness to the light of our day, because this struggle and this
evolution have a direct bearing upon Masonry so far as its origin is
concerned, and also on the influence it has exercised in the upbuilding M the human race. We review the past, not in order that we
may return to it but that we may fincl in what direction, straight
and clear, it points to the future.
The age of Speculative Masonry is satisfactorily fixed in our
minds so far as the order of the present day is concerned, but the

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

antiquity of the "principle" on which our Speculative Masonry is
founded reaches back to the dim and distant past, to the time when

Moses, Buddha, Mohammed, or Christianity. That is why we find
today representatives in goodly number of all these faiths, votaries
of Masonry.
· Wisely King Solomon said: "We walk upon the ashes of the
generations who have gone this way before us and to which in
turn our ashes contribute." In other words, we have advanced because of the experience of those who have gone before and to which
our achievements will in turn contribute for the benefit of those who
follow us.
These things we must also bear in mind in connection with the
present mental status of man, particularly in his outlook upon nature
when compared with the dim and distant past, and the evolution of
the Masonic principle.
Even in this Twentieth Century, mankind en masse, in its attributes and in its thoughts is largely controlled by inherited beliefs
and impulses, which countless thousands of years have ingrained
in his nature, like instinct.
With all our vaunted civilization in this Christian era there is
still being used over vast regions of our earth amulets, charms, magic,
and incantatio11s as the chief weapon of defense against malignant
nature.
Is it any wonder that primitive man sought in the supernatural
an explanation of the phenomena of life? No, it was but natural
that he should people his world with spiritual beings, defying objects
of nature and assigning to them benign or malign influences which
he could invoke or propitiate.
To primitive man life seemed "full of sacred presences" which
he began early to deify, so that until quite a recen't period his
story is mainly associated with a Pantheon of greater and lesser
gods which he manufactured wholesale.
Xenophanes (536 B. C.) was the earliest philosopher to recognize and write of man's practice of making gods in his own image
and endowing them with human faculties and attributes. The
Thracians he said made their gods blue-eyed and red-haired; the
Ethiopians, snub-nosed and black.
And so, all through early history we find a pantheon full to
repletion bearing testimony no less to the fertility of man's imagination than to the hopes and fears which led him in his exodus from
barbarism.
It is marvelous what a long line of superhuman powers, major
and minor, man has invoked of his gods. We find in Tyler's definition of religion one outcome of a belief in spiritual being has been
"that man has built an altar of righteousness in his hear,t."

man first learned to communicate his thoughts to his fellowman.
No sage of the past nor philosopher since history. has been
recorded, has been able to testify to its antiquity, for in every age
and in every civilization there is evidence that great secret orders
existed that taught a faith in God above and a moral law within.
Zoroaster more than ten cen.turies before our Christian era taught
a dual philosophy of good and evil and of light and darkness; the
Egyptians, Greeks and the Romans, as well as other ancient peoples,
all had their secret orders and their mysteries.
Some of these teachings in man's past seem to us perverted efforts, cruel and barbaric, yet the germ principle was to make life
tolerable and offer happy hopes for the hour of death. If recorded
history speaks of them, then surely we may infer that this principle
of which I speak far antedates man's ability to write.
Plato in his histories tells us the Mysteries were established by
men of great genius who in the early ages strove to teach purity
and a higher life. Cicero speaks of the high purpose of the mystic
· orders of his day, all of which bear mute testimony that from the
very beginning there arose out of conflicting faiths, that were based
upon fears and superstitions, a Divine urge that impelled men to
t<?il in behalf of a brotherhood that could &atisfy man's craving for
freedom and unity.
When we begin to study the history of man, whose mundane
story scienists are just beginning to unravel, we can scarcely comprehend the vastness of time which has elapsed.
It takes us back two millions (and some claim three millions)
of years. Back to the Pliocene or Miocene period when man lived
and moved and had his being; while modern history, as we know
it, embraces that b.rief space of time that has elapsed since the
earliest Egyptian ·and Babylonian records were made.
With this knowledge before us, so patiently and so painstakingly drawn from the footprints and markings in the rocks and sands
of time, we are justified in the conclusion that the principles of
Masonry arose out of the wants and very needs of man's nature,
out of the beatings and pulsations of the heart of a common humanity
and the deep seas of human sympathy and which the secret orders
and the mysteries failed to recognize and failed to satisfy.
Masonry and the principle on which it is founded have no creed,
no dogma and offers no religious formula by which the benefits of
religion may be secured, whether it be the religion of Confucius,

71

72

PROCEEDINGS Olt THE:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ray Lankaster in his Romanes Lectures "Nature and Man"
(Oxford University Press, 1905, p. 21) remarks that a man is nature's
rebel * * *. The mental qualities which have developed in man,
though traceahle in a vague and rudimentary condition in some
of his animal associates, are of such an unprecedented power and
so far dominate everything else in his activities as a living organism,
t?at they have to a large extent. cut him off from the general operation of that process of natural selection and survival of the fittest
which up to the appearance of man had been the law of the livin~
world.
They justify the view that man forms a new departure in the
gradual unfolding of nature's predestined scheme, for to man
only .has been given the attributes of Knowledge, Reason, Selfconsc1ousness and Will.

tempt that was made, will live the true value of P ythagoras, Plato,
Aristotle, Pericles, Socrates and the other great Greek thinkers and
writers.
It is not that they answered questions, but they dared to ask
them. Never before their time had man challenged his world or
the way of life to which he was born.
Never before had he said or thought that he could alter his
condition by shattering traditions to which seemingly necessity bound
him and still live.
Hence there is no measuring of the debt which our generation
owes to those apostles of light nor to those others of the middle
ages of our own era:--Shakespeare, Goethe, Pasteur and a host of
others.
They were pioneer heroes in life's evolution whose daring, for
the purpose of comparison, was greater than that of an Amundsen,
a Peary, a Byrd, or a Lindbergh.
It is a far cry from the day when man wit!\ his stone implements, gutteral speech and crude drawings banded with a few others
for protection, to the highly complex civilization composing our modern society, wi th its achievements in the arts and sciences.
The social mind of modern society required many centuries of
warfare against darkness, superstition and intolerance to the acceptance of the new consciousness that recognizes every man, no matter
how high or how low in the scale of development, as our brother and
entitled to the same protection, sympathy and kindness we expect
from and give to our equals.
.
Slowly to be sure, but very positively, increasing numbers of
peop}e and more nations are apprehending the reality of a human
brotherhood, the needlessness of wars, of cruel ties and oppression
and the possibilities of the common purpose for all mankind.
In this' uplifting and development of the race, Masonry has
played a most important role. We can trace, like a golden thread
woven into the warp of a fabric, all down the line of receding ages
into that dim obscurity of an unrecor.ded past and behold e.merging
with the first rays of dawning light, the principles and tenets that
form the broad foundation of our institution.
The thread is buried for a time by ignorance, intolerance or
tyranny, but is never lost, nor was the interval of its suppression
wholly wasted, for in these periods of rest, like a tree in winter
which stores its energy in · its roots, so too were the truths of its
tenets, the justice of its principles, stored in the heart of man, to
burst forth like Springtime with new vigor, and like the tree,
bear new and better fruit.

Swinburne sings of man's effort and struggle for light in these
words:
God by God flits past in thunder till his glories turn to shades
God by God bears wondering witness how his gospel flame~ and
fades·
More was e~ch of these, while yet they were, than man their servant
seemed;
Dead are all of these, a nd man survives who made them while he
dreamed.
It has been a slow and gradual growth and not until within the
latter half of the 19th century has science, which is organized knowle.dg.e, so searched out the secrets of nature, as to control her power,
hm1t her scope, and transform her energies.
The victory is so recent that the mental attitude of the race is
not yet wholly adapted to the change.
Man wandered the earth for ages seeking to find himself. The
lamp of reason, lighted in his soul at birth, even in his darkest period,
has never been wholly extinguished, but re-trimmed and re-furnished
hy his indomitable energies, it now shines more and more toward a
perfect day.
The slowness of its arrival is explained by Jung in his Psychology of the Unconscious, when he says the difference between ancient
(that is, preathenian) thought an d modern thought is that the former
was undirected thinking, the latter directed thinking. In other words,
the one was · a thinking in images, a world of subjective fantasies
like the world of children that creates not science, but mythology:
and the other is an orderly direction of thought.
It is to the Greeks that we owe the first brief freedom of the
human mind. Not so much in the results achieved, but in the at-

73

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

74

75

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Well may we ask as "the flying shuttle of time flashes rapidly
back and forth through the warp of the fleeting years, what are
we weaving"?
We have seen how man groped and stumbled in his march
toward light; not the light of the sun which many races for ages
worshipped, but for the spiritual light which his subconscious mind
told him could satisfy his inner craving.· Then came a period
in the world's history when the fruition of man's longing began.
Nineteen hundred years ago there was preached "The Sermon on
the Mount" .by the lowly .Nazarene, whose one command was
"love one another."
He was not a warrior like the Moslem founder, Mohammed.
He taught peace on earth and good-will toward man and told his
followers to turn the other cheek.
The message of his sermon was hope and comfort for the
meek, the poor and those that mourn shall be comforted. He healed
and protected the poor and sinful woman by inviting those without
sin to cast the first stone.
He preached kindness, but above all earthly things, he placed
charity, and left the world with Hope Eternal given to us in the
words: "In my Father's house are many mansions : If it
were not so I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for
you, and if I go, and prepare a place for you, I will come again
and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be
also." (St. John 14 :2-3.)
Magnificent are the works of genius, the accomplishment of
earth's greatest men from, or even before, Hammurabi and Moses,
the two greatest law givers, to the wisest men of our day who seek
to measure and limit the universe for us now, but we find nothing
in history before or since the Sermon on the Mount that has so
influenced man, nor has anything ever had the same promise of
perpetuity.
His birth was the opening of a new era in the .history of the
h~map. race. It was the entrance of the Word made Flesh into
the scene of sense and time, and established the consciousness and
possibility of a Universal Brotherhood of Man, whose redemption
was assured as was aiso the immortality of his soul.
Masonry lives today because its tenets are founded on the
faith that God lives; that there is hope of redemption and the
charity a universal brotherhood. inspires.
Slow and toilsome has been this upward march when calculated by time, but grand and glorious when measured by achievement.

Let it not be misunderstood we claim for Masonry more than
that its essence and chief excellence contains the morality of religion. Its wisest scribes have never claimed for it divine ori~in..nor
a supplanting of the Church. We confess to an earthly derivation.
It is the handmaid and an adjunct of religion and seeks only to
supplement the ministry of the Church. It has'. so far ~s it goes,
the · same objects in view, to subdue our passions, enlt~hten. our
reason and elevate our moral nature. Yet Masonry belteves m a
·vigorous, passionate and en~rgetic religious convicti~n as the only
moral health and vigor on which any nation can survive.
History confirms the fact that no civilization has long o~tlived
the demise of its religious faith because, as Professor Leighton
tells us in his "Religion and the Mind of Today," from no worship
of nature alone can be drawn the moral power and insight to save
society; we must look to the rational conscie~ce :Vithin us, to the
needs of the social order in which we are maltenable. members,
and to the moral order 9f history, as the three-fold revelati~? of
the Divine purpose and destiny of man as an e thical and spmtual
being.
Founded upon these tenets, tested by fire and the most diabolical punishment and torture ever conceived by man, Maso~ry
has not only survived, but its benign influence in the. elevat~on
of mankind has grown, and year by year its votaries are mcreasmg
in every land.
In the beginning it was the essence of our Speculative Masonry
which arose out of man's dire needs for a light on the path to lead
him back to his Creator who had fashioned him in His Image and
divinely endowed him with powers given to no other of his ~reatur~s,
and whose favor he forfeited by sin, that caused the foundation stone
of the Masonic structure to be laid; and on which each succeeding
generation spurred ·by its clearer understanding, has placed block
upon block in the walls of that great social Temple where.in all mankind is destined to unite in a universal brotherhood that will know no
hatred, no greed, no selfishness ; a brotherhood that will know o~ly
Truth an unshakable faith in God, a hope sustained by that faith
that i~ our Father's House we shall be welcomed, and an abiding
Charity that wipes out all need.
These are the three great stars of Masonry:
Faith, Hope and Charity, Oh Brethren of the Mystic Tie
Pure light on your path will ihine
If on these stars you fix your eye.
All this answers the question, has Masonry served a useful purpose? Is its ministry such as to warrant its support? I s there a need
for Masonry today?

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Beecher said: "We sleep but the loom of life never stops and the
pattern which was weaving when the sun went down, is weaving
when it comes up tomorrow."
So it is with the generation that is, as it was with those that have
passed into history. There is as great a need for the ministry of
Masonry in the complex life of our day as there was twenty centuries ago, and we who stand today the successors of those early
brethren who formulated the ideals under which we work, cannot lose
sight of their true significance. The institution we have inherited
must be kept at all times in the forefront of progress, for ours becomes a greater duty, because the vastly greater numbers in our
world have brought to us greater opportunities and greater responsibilities.
Our world is far from the ideal of civilization, yet there is hope,
for as man develops he places a greater value upon his own rights;
liberty becomes for him a grander and diviner thing and he begins
to value the rights of others, but only .when all men give to all
others the rights they claim for themselves, will this world become
civilized.
Masonry, therefore, has an important role to sustain. Its symbolism and its teachings are directed toward the individual and not
toward the State; its function is to inculcate the moral principles
that build character.
Her deep truths are drawn from that inexhaustible fountain, the
Holy Bible, which is always open upon our altar; she has always
preached the sanctity of the home and the purity of life. Her name
will always be coupled with obedience to law and order, to loyalty ·
to government and all that citizenship under that government stands
for.
Masonry has for over 200 years in this great U~ion of ours, not
only builded mankind, but she has been the champion of light, as
reflected in our public school system, and has consistently . supported the building of those indissoluble monuments of civilizationfreedom of speech, of the press and a religious liberty.
Monuments that will serve the generations who shall be our
heirs as keys to unlock the fetters of ignorance and tyranny, no
matter what form they seek to assume; she is a believer in the fundamental rights of liberty of man within the full meaning of freedom, provided he does not use his liberty as a cloak for a maliciousness
that subverts human rights or loyalty to the Flag of Country.
Masonry teaches loyalty to the State, but it abhors and condemns the use of the Order, or even the inference that it can be used

GRAND LODGE OJ<' CALIFORNIA

.77

for political purposes. It respects the .privilege~ of its members as
individuals of the community to exercise the right of franchise as
their conscience dictates.
Masons who choose to take part in the affairs of .state do. so as
individuals and stand or fall upon their own merits, iust as did the
patriots who founded our Government.
It may interest you to know that out of the 56 signers of our
Declaration of Independence, 52 were Masons, an? in the Arm~ of
Washington, the Commander in Chief, every Officer who attamed
the rank of Brigadier General was a Mason.
There never was and never will be a place in Masonry fo~ a
traitor. The principles on which it was founded, the compel\mg
power of its ideals, are the guarantee of that loyalty to g?vernment
and integrity of the home which will ever preserve the Liberty and
Freedom of man.
Masonry owes to America a great debt, but the world owes to
Masonry a still greater obligation. It came to our shores at an
auspicious period in the World's history, a period when the o.td
world was taking on new life. A time, that as a result ?f the Renaissance there came into being a consciousness of the importance of
mankind which was to be the beginning of the end of slavery of
mind and body.
N 0 American reviews the history of his country without mingled
emotions of pride in her past achievement and responsibility for her
future.
The settlement of America by the Pilgrims .and Purit~ns .cam.e
as a result of the desire to be free, and while m the begmnmg it
was wholly a movement for Religious freedom, it was nevertheless
the beginning of true representative Government.
Out of their religious beliefs came the conviction that mankind
was born with a right above all others to be free which led strai~ht
to the right of self-government, the necessary corollary to which
was the privilege and requirements of education.
A beginning to achieve this was made by the Virgini~ Compa~y
in 1621 when they provided as they said "for the education of children and grounding them in the principles of r~ligio.n~.. whereof
both the Church and the Commonwealth take their original foundation and happy estate"; this led to the founding of Harvard .college
in 1636; the College of William and Mary in 1692; and Yale m 1701.
It was in this atmosphere and in this cradle of liberty. th~t
Masonry was rocked and later fostered by .the hands of ~eniamm
Franklin, America's great stat esman and philosopher; the immortal

78

l'HUL!~~UINUS

OF 'l'HE

Washington, the great organizer and translator of the American
spirit of free dom; Hancock, whose bold hand was tbe first to sign
the Declaration of Independence; Warren, . who on the heights of
Charl€!ston was the first to sacrifice his life for his country.
It was under these auspices and the liberty guaranteed by that
sublime human document, "The Declaration of Independence," that
Masonry has grown and prospered like the Green Bay Tree.
· Of its perpetuity we need have no fear so long as it builds mankind. The poet tells us:
We are all blind until we sec
That in the human plan, nothing 1s worth the making,
Unless it makes the man.
Why build our cities glorious
If man unbuilded goes
In vain we build the world, unless the builder also grows.
It has been well said, that the Mason who gathers the lesson
his Lodge would teach him, is one who knows no rest and no satisfaction in things done, but is one who catches the gleam of the
transforming power of the high ideals placed upon him, and lets
each succeeding day of his life mark some fruition of these teachings
and ideals.
Therefore, whether teacher or disciple, whether leader or follower of this great and glorious moral institution, let each of us
remember:
We sit to-day at the loom of life, and weave, and w eave and weave
The warp is laid by hands Divine, but the weft is where we grieve
For every moment of every day, the shuttle flies through and through
And the patterns we scheme, with the dreams we dream, are made
.
up of the things we do.
We have naught to do with the warp we tread, and the threads are
already set,
Smiles and tears, kind .words and fears, are wound. on the bobbins
..,
we wind ·
·
And every ' thoughtless word is there, an d every word unkind;
And every act we would fain forget, and the thoughts that are dark
.
and vain,
We· view in the fabric of life we weave, and we see them and see
them again.
So we sit and weave wit1"i an aching heart and a world of intense
regret,
·
And tears fall fast as we view the past, and we pray that we may
forget.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

79

But out of repining and soul recoil, we look in the future and see
<)ur life stretch out in its broader plan, and a new hope comes to us;

We know not the length of the warp we view, we know not our
given span,
Rut into the fabric we yet may weave, we'll put all the best we can,
Harmony, sunshine, faith and hope, and thus our contrition prove,
When the throw shall fall from our nerveless hand and· the shuttle
lies at rest
·
May we hear the voice of the Master say, you've done what you
thought was best.*
Wn.LIAM C. HASSLER, Grand Orator.

San Francisco, October 14, 1930.
• " Life's Weaver" by William Jay Johnson ( with apologies for changes) .

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the M: .w:.Grand Lodge of California:
I herewith submit my twenty-third Annual Report as Grand
Lecturer. The most satisfactory experience about my years of
service has been the wonderful assistance and hearty co-operation
of the Inspectors and Brethren, who have at all times been most
anxious and willing to serve, which compensates in no small degree
for my efforts in bringing up and maintaining the standard of the
ritual, and it is with genuine pleasure that I can testify to the loyal
co-operation of my Brethren. This is very gratifying.
I have received reports from all the Inspectors, and they report
their Lodges to be in excellent condition, with the exception of a
few Lodges in small communities that are fast becoming depopulated, and some others that have heavy financial burdens in Temples.·
But, on the whole, a very satisfactory condition exists in the Jurisdiction.
The new Funeral Ritual, adopted at the last session of the Grand
Lodge, is proving satisfactory, judging from the reports of the
Inspectors and the favorable comments of the Brethren. One
Brother writes : "In my humble opinion, the new service is about all
that could be asked for in a funeral ceremony. With the elimination
of the expression of those doleful and depressing thoughts which

81

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

were conveyed in the old service, the present ritual is now a work of
solemn beauty and carries with it a simple, dignified expression of
love and sympathy. Properly rendered, it should be an inspiration
of hope to the heart burdened with sorrow ..
Fraternal visits between Lodges are productive of much good
and arc to be highly commended and encouraged. But the so-called
Degree Teams are out usually to cover themselves with glory and
are mostly of spectacular makeup, which is not the intent and purpose of Masonry. "Light with dignity will travel farther than sound
with jazz." I would suggest that, if a group of Brethren, for instance
the co-workers of the candidate, desired to visit the Lodge in which
he was taking his degrees, in a body, and after the degree was over,
to present him with a Bible or a pin or something of that nature, it
would add to the dignity of the occasion and have far greater effect
than attempting to confer the degree. The whole proposition of
degree teams is in the hands of the Master of the Lodge. This is
pursuant to an edict of the Grand Master. Some legislation should
be enacted to relieve the Master of this embarrassment. This could,
in my judgment, very easily be done ·in the following manner: When
a group desires to put on a degree in a Lodge, they would make the
request of the Master and, if acceptable, he would then in turn seqd
the request to the Grand Lecturer, who would instruct the Inspector
of the District to examine the group and, if found proficient, issue
them a certificate which would be good for the balance of the year
in which it was issued. As it is now, when a request is made to the
Master, he either denies the request or else he lets the group go
ahead and put on the degree without examination, he having no time
in which to make the examination.
I have accompanied the Most Worshipful Grand Master on many
of his visits throughout the State. He has been enthusiastically received everywhere, and has left a message to the Brethren that was
thoroughly enjoyed. These visits are very much appreciated by the
Brethren and are a great stimulus to the Lodges, particularly those
of the smaller Districts.
I owe much to the V.'.W.'.Grand Secretary and his assistant,
Brother Hobbs, for the many courtesies extended to me in his office
during the year. They both have been most kind.
The Officers of the Fifty-Second District will exemplify the
Third Degree on Thursday, October 16th, the candidate being furnished by Crockett Lodge No. 139.
In conclusion may I say, as someone has aptly said : "It is my
joy in life to find at every turning of the road the strong arm of a
comrade kind to help me onward with my load. And since I have no

gold to give, and love alone must make amends, m y only prayer is,
while I live, God make me worthy of my friends."
Thanking the Grand Lodge and the Brethren of this Jurisdiction for their consideration an d confidence placed in m e, which is
greatly appreciated.

80

THOMAS ] . BAKER,

Grand L ecturer.

Referred to the following Committee:
Kelley, Rudolph Mohr, Fred L. Johnston.

Lawrence C.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the M.'.W.' .Grand Lodge of California:
Your com mittee on Masonic H is tory begs leave to submit the
following report of its activities during the past year, together with
its recommendations as to further action on the part of your most
worshipful body :
At the last Annual Communication you directed the committee
to continue its work of gathering and preserving material relating
to the history of Masonry in this State and appropriated $3,000 for
carrying out your instructions. We have obeyed your mandate, and
beg to report tha t we have ex pended a little less tha n $ 1,800 of th e
appropriation.
In our report to this Grand Lodge last year we requested the
assistance and cooperation of the Inspectors in the selection of committees among the constituent Lodges, these com mittees to work
under the direction of your History Committee in searching throug h
their Lodge records for the desired data and information contained
therein. This request met with your approval.
Immediately following the adjournment of Grand Lodge, we
requested the Inspectors to appoint such committees and to direct
and instruct them in the work. We are pleased to report that we
received almost unanimous cooperation from the Inspectors and secured the appointment of committees in approximately seventy-five
per cent of the Lodges. W e wish at this time to express our appreciation to the Inspectors and L odge officers for the cooperation and
assistance rendered in selecting the local committees and in following up their work. Your ·committee also addressed special instructions to each local member appointed, outlining the work proposed
and giving examples of the information and .d ata we required. The

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

work of these committees has not progressed as rapidly as we anticipated. We realize that this is due largely to the difficulty of searching back into the records of the past, and the fact that few members
have the available time for such a research. However, the material
and partial reports received from them leads to the conclusion that
the continuance of these local committees is well justified and will
be of valuable assistance to the Grand Lodge Committee.
During the past year members of your committee have visited a
number of Lodges and localities where Lodges at one time existed,
searching records, investigating numerous traditions and stories,
and assisting and advising the local workers.
The desire of the present committee to make definite progress in
this work, and the inability of its members to take time from their
own business, impressed us with the need for a trained research
worker. We therefore sought the services of a competent brother
to act in the capacity of full time investigator. Several brothers were
tried with varying degrees of success. However, last May we succeeded in securing the services of Brother Chas. R. Ingram, a recent
graduate of the University of California, who had engaged in extensive historical research. Brother Ingram was born and raised on the
Mother Lode, has served fo the offices of his own Lodge and has had
several years of valuable newspaper experience. We felt that his
training, qualifications and experience admirably fitted him for the
work. Our dealings with him and the results of his .efforts during
the past several months have more than vindicated our judgment.
His work has been eminently satisfactory.
The committee has centered its attention on the Lodges of the
Mother Lode because there the greatest fire hazard exists. We
deemed it highly advisable to search these records first and then follow with investigations in other parts of the state. We are pleased
· to report that the work of collecting material on the Mother Lode is
completed and we have on file excerpts from the minutes, and stories
of Masonry in the several communities covering that interesting section of California. These reports cover many of the earliest Lodges
in the State and bring to light important historical facts.
· All information received by the committee is promptly filed
where it is safe from loss or destruction. Three typed copies of
every item of information are made. Original reports are placed in
a safe depository in the office of the Grand Secretary, while the two
remaining copies are filed in offices of the members of the committee.
The information is so indexed that it is readily available for use
from time to time, and when the Grand Lodge feels that it should be
coordinated and written into an historical volume.

GRAXD LODGE OF CALIFORXIA

83

We have found that much of our most valuable material is
locked up in letters, bills, warrants and manuscripts. In many cases
discarded books and papers, considered of purely local significance
and of little value to a Statewide study, contain information and
stories hot recorded in the minute books of the Lodges. Ofttimes
an unpretentious receipted bill or a cancelled note reveals the full
story of the charity work of a Lodge and its members. We have discovered letters reposing in garrets and cellars and out-of-the-way
places which disclose incidents of real Masonic significance. These
have greatly assisted us in a proper interpretation of entries in the old
minute books which had long puzzled those who had perused them.
Frequently a second or third visit to the Lodge room is necessary to
link together obscure passages jotted down in the minute books.
As a result of investigations carried on during the past year, we
are able to give you much of the true history of Masonry in this
State that was formerly known only as vague rumor.
A few matters of Masonic interest may be here mentioned:
We find that it was an almost universal custom among the old
Lodges to vote on applications for affiliation at the meeting the applications were received, without resorting to the formality of committee action.
It was not at all uncommon among the old Lodges to have a
standing committee on "reform," whose duty it was to see that the
brethren refrain from an excessive use of intoxicating liquors. The
Lodge thus attempted to set a good example in the community where
excess was common.
One Lodge for the first ten years of its existe11ce had the unpleasant experience of hearing charges of unMasonic conduct preferred against one or JJ.nother of its members at practically every
meeting.
Many of the old Lodges in the mining camps re1quired non·
affiliated Masons living within their jurisdiction to either affiliate,
pay dues or refrain from visiting the Lodge. The reason for this
requirement was . that calls for charity were so frequent and were
such a heavy burden, that the small local membership could not support the load without assistance from non-affiliates. The non-affiliates were most frequently those in need of charity.
Jn many local jurisdictions the receipt of notice of a Lodge
meeting was considered a summons, and a Mason either a member
of the local Lodge or a non-affiliate must obey the summons or present a reasonable excuse for his non-attendance. We found a letter
at Ione in reply to notice of a Lodge meeting in which a brother informed the Master that it would be difficult for him to attend the

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

stated meeting of the Lodge to be held that night because he had
broken his leg and could not walk, and that he hoped the Master
would accept that as a legal excuse.
One Lodge in 1860 issued scrip to fund its debts and regularly
paid interest thereon.
Another Lodge paid wages and expenses to its first Master during the time he was perfecting qimself in the work.
We find that following the Civil War, discord arose in. several
Lodges over questions involved in that conflict, resulting in the formation of a number of new Lodges.
·
In San Francisco a Masonic brother, Robert Tiffany, and his
family were saved from mob violence by the intercession of his
Masonic brethren. Tiffany was falsely accused of being a cousin of
the slayer of President Lincoln and in sympathy with him. The infuriated mob stormed his house and threatened violence to him and
his family until quieted by several Masons who circulated through the
crowd and established the falsity of the charge.
Also we find that in 1856 one brother escaped the vengeance of
the San Francisco Vigilantes Committee through the. good work of
a Masonic brother, an influential member of that organization.
The recqrds of Corinthian Lodge No. 9, of Marysville, disclose
the fact that in 1853 John A. Sutter was elected to receive the degrees . of Masonry in that Lodge, but we are unable to find any record
of the conferring of the degrees.
In 1870 trouble arose between the San Francisco Lodges and
St. Mary's hospital by reason of the insistence of hospital authorities
in burying as Catholics many Masons who died in that institution.
The Masons in San Francisco were at one time compelled to forcibly
remove the body of a brother who died in the hospital, in order that
it might be interred with Masonic honors. One brother went so far
as to prepare and file an affidavit with his Lodge expressing his desire to be buried by the Masonic fra-ternity, irrespective of any claoim
or proof presented to show that he had embraced the Catholic faith
on his death bed.

Our records disclose the fact that all of the charter members of
one of our Lodges were operative as well as speculative Masons.
This very unique situation occurred at Penrhyn, when the quarries
of that place were in operation. Their temple was built of stone
taken from the quarries near there.
We find in the records of some Lodges applications fo r the
" degree of Master Mason's Daughter," but as yet we are unable to
ascertain just what the degree signified. [Probably "Jephthah's
Daughter," by Rob. Morris- Grand Sec.]

85

In the early days many sons of Masons were recognized as
"Lewis Masons." One of them , 19 years of age, was raised to the
sublime degree of Master Mason by a Sacramento Lodge.
General Joh n Bidwell was an enthusiastic and active Mason for
many years. He constructed a large two-story building in Chico
and furnished the upper floor as a Lodge room. Suddenly he turned
against the fratern ity and had one of his workmen set all Lodge
furniture and pa raphernal'a on the street in frorit of the building.
The opposition grocer across the way noted this action and offered
to lease his own building to the Lodge for fifty years for one dollar.
The offer was accepted. The Lodge later purchased the building.
We are at present endeavoring to fi nd the cause of Bidwell's peculiar
actions. Recently we came into possession of facts which we hope
will lead to a solution of this perplexing question.
We are often asked the question, " Is it true that the Masonic
signal of distress has been given to Indians and recognized as such
by them?" Many instances of this kind have occurred. One of
them may be mentioned:
In 1849 Brother James Hodge Watson. the founder of Watsonville, was crossing the plains with an emigrant party. They were
attacked by a band of Indians which gr!'!atly outnumbered them. It
looked as though the heroic band of gold seekers wou ld shortly be
annihilated, when Brother Watson, as a last resort, gave the Masonic
sign of distress. The Indian Chief immediately ordered a cessation
of hostilities, escorted the entire party to his camp an d entertained
them royally for three days. He then gave them safe conduct
through his section of the country.
We find that Masonry was the greatest stabilizing force in California life for several decades, and Masons were the most active
agents in establishing a degree of permanency in the State. In the
mining camps the Masonic hall was usually the first permanent
building erected. Those who took the lead in drafting local mining
regulations were members of the fra ternity, and it was s uch men and
Masons as Abel Sterns, Dr. B. F . Keane, William A. January, Robert
Semple, Stephen J. Fields, John W . Geary, S. C. Hastings and Myron
Norton who laid the solid foundations of our State government.
The research of your committee has disclosed many facts of
unusual interest to California historians aside from matters connected
with Masonry. One example will suffice: In a letter written by a
Mason dated "Yerba Buena, June 14, 1843," is disc losed the fact,
hitherto unauthenticated, that prior to 1843 the priests at the Mission
were aware of the existence of gold in central California but had

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGIG OF CALIFORNIA

suppressed the .d iscovery through fear that its disclosure would result in a great influx of gold seekers and thus undo much of their
work among the Indians.
Your committee has also instituted research to ascertain littleknown and unpublished facts in the lives of some of the early California Masonic characters, among them being Kit Carson, ·William
A. January, John W. Geary, Jsaac Roop, Peter Lassen and Dr.
B. ·F. Keane.

prepare slides and arrange material for use among the Lodges, · so
the story of Masonry in California may be made immediately available to the craft.

During the past year your committee discovered a printed circular which had been sent through the mails by Mountain Shade
Lodge in 1852, setting forth certain specific unMasonic acts on the
part of the Grand Master of that year, committed within its jurisdiction. The character of acts were quite similar to those which formed
the basis for the charges preferred by California Lodge No. I against
the same Grand Master at the special communication of Grand Lodge
held during 1852.
The Masonic celebration held at Coloma in 1928 was preeminently a success, and has been a subject of constant discussion
among the craft. Many brethren have expressed a desire to witness
other celebrations or pageants of like kind and cha.r acter. During
the coming year several of our L odges will probably observe their
75th anniversaries, and we s~bmit for their consideration the advisability of presenting a pageant similar to the one staged at Coloma.
Should any Lodge or .g roup of Lodges decide to present a pageant
or celebration representing or depicting any phase or period of California Masonic history, we feel that the History Committee to be
appointed by your incoming Grand Master will be pleased to furnish
facts and data necessary to guarantee success in that undertaking.
We find that many of the older Lodges in the State are housed
in frame buildings and are so situated as to constitute extremely
dangero~s fire hazards. Many of the communities wherein they
are situated are without adequate water system~ to afford proper
protection in case of conflagration. In most cases the books are
kept in the L odge rooms and consequently may a t any time suffer
the same fate that has befallen some of our most important historical
records. In view of this fact, we respectfully suggest that such
Lodges keep their valuable books and records in fire-proof vaults
or safes.
During the past year members of your committee have accepted
invitations from many Lodges to deliver talks on Masonic history.
At these meetings unusual interest in our Masonic past has been
shown by the brethren. It has been suggested many times that we

We feel that what has already ·been accomplished by the committee and those assisting it has fully vindicated the Grand Lodge
· in its efforts to perpetuate our Masonic history; that the funds used
by the committee have been economically and efficiently expended;
and that the work should be continued along the same lines until
such time as all available material has been collected and the several
sources of information exhausted. We believe that during the coming year we will be able to place in our files all of the essential facts
contained in the records of the subordinate Lodges.
We recommend that the Grand Lodge continue the activities of
the Committee on Masonic History, and we feel that if the work
of that committee is to be successfully continued it will require the
same appropriation as was made available last year. We therefore
recommend that Grand Lodge appropriate for the use of the committee the sum of $3,000, of which $1,20.0 shall be the surplus saved
this year. To effect th is we have prepared a resolution which we
here respectfully tender for your consideration.
R esolved, that the sum of $3,000 be set aside and appropriated
to the work of the Committee on Masonic History during the ensuing year, $1 ,200 of said sum being the surplus yet on hand from
the appropriation made for the work of said committee for last year.
Said committee is directed to continue the work of ga thering and
preserving information and data that is in danger .of ·becoming lost
and to place the same in permanent and accessible form, and that
the various Inspectors are requested to cooperate with the committee
and assist the local Lodge groups in their research.

86

87

It is quite possible that sets of lantern slides might be prepared
and used to illustrate talks on our history where the Lodges have
proper facilities for using those slides. Such illustrated talks might
very properly be a part of the Grand Lodge library, available to
Lodges desiring the same.

ARTHUR M. ELLIS,
LEON WH ITSELL,
MAX A. SAWRIE,

Committee on Masonic History.

Referred t o the committees on Policy and General Purposes and Finance.

88

PROCEEDlNGS OF THE

REPORT OF EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE
To tM M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee for 1930 has pleasure 111 presenting its sixth
annual report of its activities.
The work of this committee has been confined to a slightly
different manner of activity than in prior years, and the experiences
of this past year, added to those of the five preceding years, we feel
are invaluable in reaching certain conclusions with respect to the
efforts of this Grand Lodge to pursue its forward step along the .
lines of offering more light to its votaries.
This year the committee published six papers for use of the
Lodges and a revised reprint of the pamphlet for use of local Lodge
committees in imparting information to candidates. The correspondence in the Executive Director's office has been as large as in former
years, reaching into thousands of letters, and you brethren would
probably be astounded to witness and experience the interest in this
phase of your endeavors evidenced by the members of the craft at
large in writing into the office asking questions and in most cases
acknowledging the reply which is promptly forthcoming. I might
say that the full time of our office stenographer is utilized practically every day in writing letters dictated by Brother Blight.
Your chairman has conferred with members of the committee,
both here and in Los Angeles, and desires at this time to express his
personal appreciation of the cooperation of all the members thereof.
Early in the year, after the various districts of the State had
been allocated to members of the committee, our Grand Master
caused a letter to be sent to the Lodges notifying them as to who
was the member of the committee who would serve them, and bespeaking their cooperation. In a very large measure this cooperation has been afforded, and at this point we desire to say, as we
have said in every previous report, that wherever and whenever the
officers of a Lodge have enthusiastically cooperated and lent the
same efforts towards the progress of this program as towards other
phases of their work, this work has been eminently successful. Your
chairman has in mind a larg.e number of instances where he has personally spoken with candidates . newly raised, and the expressions of
interest in the instruction they received, based upon the candidate's
pamphlet, have in every case been little short of astonishing. This
thought brings us to the focal point with respect to a bureau of
information such as this committee represents. It is· this: No argum ent is needed to support the statement that if we interest a man

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

89

while he has the enthusiasm of newness in his contact with us we
are able to work with him with little or no trouble. We, all of us,
have obser_ved men without number who have come into our Lodges,
and I believe none will deny that irrespective of whatever their
background may be, or however large or diversified their activities,
they have an unmistakable interest and enthusiasm for the new
organization; its work, its associations and the teachings it imparts
to them. That is the time and those are the circumstances under
which it is well to attract them further. We fully believe that one
of the reasons that some of the enthusiasm is apparently lost (although
we equally believe that their interest is never lost) is because these
men who come into the Institution are brought up to a certain point
by our work and that point is not quite far enough, in that it does
not focus their ideas so that they can draw a conclusion with satisfaction. The fact of the matter is, our work does give them all that
could possibly be desired, but does not explain why this information
is ~iven them in the manner t hat it is as distinguished from being
plamly presented. You and I know the reasons for this, and we
also know that the reasons are sound and admit of no denial; but
we alsC! know that if we can add to the work as presently given, we
enable each man within the limits of his own ability to draw such
deduction_ as he sees, and thus, in his own mind, put himself in
a~co~d with the very thoughts and sentiments which we have given
hun 111 :1 covered manner. If, therefore, we will consistently, and as
a matter of routine, take hold of every candidate as he comes into
our Lodge and tell him something of the history of this Grand
Lodge, its purposes, its accomplishments, and possibly some of its
outstanding individual characters; tell him something of his own
Lodge along the same lines, laying stress upon its local accomplishments; point out to him the interpretation of some of the more
salient points of each degree as he goes through; answer by anticipating some of the usual and very natural questions which so many
candidates ask; explain some of the apparently difficult passages in
the lectures_ which he learns; and having done these things, review
them all with him by asking him questions in return designed to
test how much he has gathered from the information thus afforded
him; there ·can be no question that we will be creating a body of
Masons who, first, will be better informed; second, better able to
instruct their successors; and, third, more greatly interested. You
and I have seen, time after time, that the candidate who has his
candidate's lectures the best is the man whose interest is maintained
not only in himself but by having his good wo rk called to the atten~
tion of the officers.
The conclusion to be drawn from these observations is and this
committee recommends, that for the coming year and 'currently

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

thereafter there be an Instruction Committee, who, having informed
themselves as to the information to be given the candidates (just as
the coaches have learned their catechism) shall meet with candidates
as they are going through the degrees (at similar rimes and manner
as the coaches do), and impart to the candi'dates such information;
that thereafter the candidates shall, in effect, pass what might be.
termed an examination before · such committee, and for the satisfaction of the Master and the Lodge, the committee shall report such
fact to the Master. How excellent a thought it is to contemplate
that a candidate not only shall be able to recite that portion of his
lecture of the third degree describing the second section thereof, but
in addition thereto be able to tell something of its tremendous lesson!
In order that the Lodge may know that this work is going on, it
might be well occasionally to have a candidate or two pass this socalled examination in open Lodge.
The presentation of papers which have from time to time been
offered to the Lodges is another phase of this bureau of information.
It is designed to afford to all present at a meeting, in a short time,
something of interest concerning our work. We believe this observation is correct: The manner in which these papers is pre·sented to
the Lodge ninety per cent determines whether it succeeds or fails.
All of us know that one man can read such a paper or relate the
substance of it in such a manner as to challenge the attention and
interest of his listeners, and that another man can not do this. May
we say, therefore, that it is of prime importance that the Master
carefully choose the brother who is to present this paper. Surely
there are many men, at least half a dozen, in every Lodge who have
the ability to present it successfully.
The sum and substance of these observations, in the final analysis revolves about the amount of thought and effort which the leader
of' the Lodge gives to the program. He is careful in his choice of
investigating committees; he is careful at the beginning of his year
in his choice of coaches; he is careful in his choice of committeemen
for other work; he is careful in checking on the work of his subordinate officers; he is extremely careful in his appointment to the
lowest office of the man who will some day succeed him .. If he will
be equally careful in his designation of his Committee on Information
for candidates. and his choice of those who present the papers furnished, this phase of his work will not only meet with equal success,
but will challenge the interest and excite the approbation of his
brethren. We can say what we please about effort and expense, and
whether it is worth it and all such, but the fact remains that we are
engaged in a long crusade for the dissemination of light, and every
step which adds brilliance to the flame is a s tep in the forward

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

91

movement. Six years ago the Grand Lodge of California took its
stand on this subject, and under the leadership and recommendation
of every Grand Master has pursued this course. It is not a program
in which the results can be tabulated at the end of a year; but just
as the fruits we enjoy today are the results of the great difficulties
of our brethren of decades ago, who probably questioned some of
their efforts at that time, so will the real fruits of this ac tivity of ours
influence and succeed amongst those who are to come after us, and
who, doubtless, will evolve something further for their successors.
Your committee therefore respectfully recommends:
1. That the program laid down by this Grand Lodge in 1925 be
continued;

2. That the Grand Master be authorized to appoint a committee
of such number as he deems advisable for the carrying on of the
program ;
3. That the sum of Eight Thousand Dollars ($8,000.00) be appropriated for the use of the Committee under the direction of the
Grand Master.
EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE OF 1930.

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Finance.

!12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES MASONIC HOMES
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
We present herewith, as required by the Constitution, a report of
the Homes for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1930, with a roster of
residents to August 31, together with a statement of revenues received since the close of the fiscal year, to September 30.
Pursuant to Constitutional requirement, immediately following
the close of Grand Lodge in October, 1929, the Trustees met and
organized as follows :
President, James B. Gist, term expires 1931;
Vice-President, Albert E. Boynton, term to 1930;
Samuel E. Burke, term to 1932;
Chas. Albert Adams, term to 1933;
John Stuart Ross, Deputy Grand Master;
Robert B. Gaylord, Senior Grand Warden;
Frank W. Mixter, Junior Grand Warden;
Treasurer, William Parker Filmer;
Secretary, John Whicher.
Five meetings of the Board were held in the year-three at Los
Angeles and two at San Francisco. Weekly meetings were held at
Los Angeles by the Los Angeles members of the Board and weekly
meetings were likewise held by the San Francisco members, for
routine business.
Residents
On the first of September there were 299 residents at the Decato
Home-155 men and 144 women, a net increase for the year of 36.
Death took its toll of 26 men and 7 women, a total loss of 33-17 less
than the previous year. The admissions were 41 men and 28 women.
The average age of those who passed away was 77.7, and the average
of those now resident there is, men 77, women 73.8.
Five of the men residents and eight of the women are less than
60 years of age, and your Trustees are seriously considering whether
an age limit should not be fixed.
Outside relief is being granted to 60 Lodges for the care of 32
adults and 57 children, at a present expense of $2,305.00 a month.
At the Covina Home there are 98 boys and 77 girls. Nine boys
and three girls are being cared for in private homes, under the &,.upervision of the Superintendent and his staff. During the year, 18 boys
and 14 girls were admitted, and 16 boys and 22 girls dismissed.

uRAND LO DGE OF CALIFORNIA

93

Four boys and nine girls were graduated from the Covina High
School in June. A detailed statement relating to these graduates and
provision for their future appears in the interesting report of Superintendent Downen, attached. hereto.
Scholarships
Seven of the graduate children are now attending schools and
colleges, and are partially fina nced from the Scholarship Fund of t he
Home. For the fiscal year ended July 31, 1930, donations for Scholarships were as follows:
Grand Chapter, R. A. M.·--·-·--·-··----··-·..··--··,···········-··.. ············-··········$ 750.00
San Francisco Lodge of Perfection................................................ 750.00
Taft Lodge No. 156.........;..................................................................... 50.00
Pasadena Masters and Wardens........................ :............................. 100.00
Alhambra Lodge No. 322.................................................................... 25.00
Alhambra Commandery No. 48, K. T ......... ·-·····-·-·--·-····---··-···-..···-- 10.00
Alhambra Chapter, R. A. M. No. 86................................................ 10.00
La Brea Lodge No. 650 ................................................................\..... 10.00
Parnassus Lodge No. 388.................................................................. 100.0(I
C. A. Broderick, Honolulu .......................................:........................
5.00
Brother Johnson, Claremont Lodge No. 436................................ 50.00
T otal donations for the year......................................................$1860.00
At the close of the year the fund was practically all expended,
there being a balance of only $787.74. Just how much assistance
should be given to a child, after leaving our Home, and how best to
provide for its future, is sometimes a difficult problem to solve. All
of them manifestly are not mentally fit for University training. But
beneficiaries are selected with care, and with the sole idea of affording worthy children the opportunities for advanced schooling-either
mechanical or scholastic-they would have if their parents were living.
It is hardly necessary to state that the financial assistance to
these children aggregates considerable money, all which heretofore
has come from voluntary donations of Brethren and Lodges, and
none from funds paid for maintenance. The fund is at the present
time exhausted, and donations will be most welcome.
Endowment Fund Donations
The Endowment Fund at the close of the fiscal year, July 31,
1930, amounted to $633,023.98. A detailed list of donors for the year
is incorporated in the report of the Endowment Committee. We

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

append herewith a list of donors who have contributed five hundred
dollars or more to the Endowment Fund since its creation in 1910
to September 30, 1930. Figures will be added from year to year to
the amounts, as and if donors increase their contributions:
Lodges, by various numbers:
California No. L ...........$ 3,182.59
Western Star No. 2......
604.50
Tehama No. 3..................
622.00
San Jose No. 10.............. 1,030.38
867.00
Y aunt No. 12..................
San Joaquin No. 19........ 1,015.56
Washington No. 20........ 1,198.50
Hawaiian No. 21............ 2,146.80
Occidental No. 22.......... 1,436.00
Golden Gate No. 30........
933.50
San Diego N ~. 35............
687.50
Martinez No. 41..............
668.25
Los Angeles No. 42......
792.50
Mount Moriah No. 44....
665.00
Union No. 58 ............,..... 1,110.40
Live Oak No. 61............ 6,926.00
Naval No. 87..................
849.65
Howard No. 96 (37)......
592.90
Fidelity No. 120.............. 2,903.65
Sotoyome No. 123........
613.00
Hermann No. 127.......... 1,012.00
Pacific No. 136................ 2,117.30
Crockett No. 139............ 1,271.00
Oriental No. 144............ 2,129.50
Excelsior No. 166.......... 1,930.00
Alameda No. 167............
807.50
Redwood City No. 168..
571.50
Mission No. 169.............. 1,353.50
Phoenix No. 178..............
599.50
Petaluma No. 180..........
655.50
Oakland No. 188............ 4,256.27
Marin No. 191.................. 1,021.56
Pentalpha No. 202.......... 3,508.00
King David's No. 209....
807.00
So. San Fran. No. 212....
517.00
S. Buenaventura No. 214
575.00j
Oak Grove No. 215 ........ 1,744.101
Doric No. 216.................. 1,415.50 .

Speranza I taliana
No. 219 ......................... . 1,060.50
Bakersfield No. 224 ........ 2,665.10
Brooklyn No. 225 .......... .. 1,389.00
Solano No. 229 ................
537.05
754.00
Santa Ana No. 241.. ........
Alcatraz No. 244 ........ ~ .. . 1,173.50
796.27
Pomona No. 246 ............. .
619.90
Welcome No. 255 .......... ..
Evergreen No. 259 ........
849.50
King Solomon's No.260 1,548.74
Hesperian No. 264 ..........
916.00
Durant No. 268 ................ 2,450.08
614.65
Olive Branch No. 269 ....
Pasadena No. 272 .......... .. 1,550.79
So. California No. 278 .. 1,726.50
East Gate No. 290 ........ .. 1,693.00
582.50
Santa Paula No. 291......
612.50
Liberty No. 299 ............. .
670.50
Monrovia No. 308 ........ ..
531.90
Delano No. 309..................
Tehachapi No. 313 ........ .. 1,20LSO
Hollenbeck No. 319 .... .. 4,537.00
912.88
So. Gate No. 320 ........... .
824.25
Corona No. 324 ............ ..
812.00
Long Beach No. 327..... .
627.86
San Pedro No. 332 ........ ..
912.00
West Gate No. 335 ...:... .
Fruitvale No. 336 .......... .. 1,398.25
875.50
Fullerton No. 339 ..........
Oxnard No. 341.. .......... .. 1,001.33
557.90
San Fernando No. 343 ..
849.00
Starr King No. 344 .... ..
730.25
Palo Alto No. 346 ..........
Sequoia No. 349 ............ .. 2,076.75
Sunset No. 352 ............... . 1,049.25
Presidio No. 354 .......... .. 1,172.00
914.10
Hollywood No. 355 ....... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Golden State No. 358 ....
San Francisco No. 360..
Berkeley No. 363 ............
Las Palmas No. 366 ..... .
Unity No. 368 ................ ..
Amity No. 370 ................
Le Progres No. 371.. .... ..
Richmond No. 375 ......... .
Mizpah No. 378 ............ ..
Highland Park No. 382
Coalinga No. 387 .. _........
Parnassus No. 388 ........ ..
Palos Verdes No. 389 .. ..
West Lake No. 392 ....... .
Balder No. 393 .............. ..
University No. 394 ........ ..
Apollo No. 396 ............... .
Bay View No. 401... ..... ..
Yerba Buena No. 403 .. ..

576.50
561.00
2,067.75
1,115.75
800.50
1,035.00
846.50
771.00
529.25
1,720.00
2,536.50
869.50
922.00
921.00
1,872.20
819.00
965.75
665.00
1,030.00

Honolulu No. 409 ........... .
Charter Rock No. 410:...
Calexico . No. 412 ........... .
Midway No. 426 .......... ..
San Dimas No. 428 ...... ..
Mc Cloud No. 430 ........... .
Alpha No. 431... ............ .
Maricopa No. 434 ........... .
Fairmount No. 435 ...... ..
Lancaster No. 437 ......... .
Wilshire No. 445 .......... ..
Park No. 449.'.. ............. ..
Golden West No. 455 .. ..
Kennett No. 456 ............ ..
Henry S. Orme No. 458
Paul Revere No. 462..... .
Libertas No. 466 .......... ..
Culver City No. 467 ...... ..

95

1,807.00
2,154.06
705.00
668.50
511.00
1,329.37
630.00
536.50
1,629.00
1,670.00
865.50
1,291.50
576.00
500.00
992.72
1,268.60
1,733.00
800.00

0 ther donations follow:
Abraham, Vella, bequest... ...............................................................$ 2,500.00
Abrams, Jos., bequest........................................................................
570.00
800.00
Adams, John Quincy, bequest ..................................................... ;.:
Allen, Horace Bell............................................................................ 1,000.00
Beaustrom, Andrew, bequest .......................................................... 1,893.74
510.69
Bennalack, Joseph, bequest............................................................
Bernstein, Samuel, bequest.............................................................. 2,000.00
Bien, Mrs. L., bequest.. ...... ,............................................................. 8,279.46
500.00
Bluhm, Katherine, bequest..............................................................
Bragg, Robert, bequest...................................................................... 8,000.00
Brockman, J. W., bequest.. ............................... :.............................. 2,000.00
500.00
Brobeck, William M. and Josephine............................................
550.00
Chamberlain, Lewis, bequest..........................................................
Church , Sidney L.............................................................................
515.81
Coleman, Edward, bequest .............................................................. 20,000.00
710.00
Coleman, Janet, gift... ...................................................................... ;
Coleman, George E., gift.. ................................................................ · 710.00
710.00
Coleman, John C., Jr., gift ..............................:.............................
Coleman, Persis H ., gift.. ................................. :..............................
710.00
710.00
Coleman, Waldo S., gift..................................................................
Cromer, George F., bequest............................................................ 1,000.00
Field, Bessie N., bequest.................................................................. 1,514.63

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fields, George, bequest....................................................................
726.00
Fifield, Matilda D., bequest.......................................................... 4,455.00
Firth, Emil, bequest................................:......................................... 1,000.00
Flint, Motley H., bequest................................................................ 1,000.00
Ford, H. D., bequest.........................................................................
789.17
Fudickar; Harriet S., bequest ............................................,............ 18,906.00
Gadina, Hanna, bequest.............. :...................................................
500.00
Gallacher, Mary A., bequest............................................................ 11,986.92
Goldberg, Leon B., bequest............................................................
500.00
Grand Commandery, K. T ., gift..........................:......................... 11,102.56
Gratrix, Stella M., bequest ................................. :............................
500.00
Griffith, James K., bequest............................................................ 1,713.81
Gronow, Tracy D., bequest..... ~---·····················································
500.00
Hamilton, Grace, bequest..................................................-............. 1,000.00
Hammon, Wendell P., bequest...................................................... 1,250.00
Hands, Wm. M., bequest................................................................
576.76
Hanna, George, bequest....................................................................
500.00
Haywood, John S., bequest............................................................ 18,619.03

~;:~~~~·0 :,e;:~: ~:::::}·····-~·•··········:······························:·················

5,0GO
Howard, George, bequest................................................................
993.70
Isom, William, bequest.................................................................... 2,848.53
Jacobs, Leopold, bequest.............................:.................................... 2,000.00
Jeffers, S., bequest............................................................................
636.53
Jeffries, Wm. P., bequest................................................................ 1,000.00
Jennings, Mary L., gift.................:..................................................
710.00
Johanningsmier, A., bequest. ...........................~............................... 1,550.65
Jones, Margaret, bequest................................................................ 3,849.09
Kadletz, Katherine A., bequest......................................................
500.00
Kennedy, Carrie P., bequest............................................................
500.00
Knapp, W. ]., bequest....................................................................
500.00
Knowland, Jos. R. , bequest............................................................
500.00
Koening, Ella, bequest.............................,..............:.........................
500.00
Levy, Achille, beqtJest...................................................................... 1,000.00
Lloyd, Chas., bequest...................................................................... 1,059.69
Long, Edward, bequest.................................................................... 1,808.73
Lueders, W. W., bequest .............................................................:.. 1,000.00
Mayes, Viola, bequest...................................................................... 12,595.44
Mc;:Lean, James, bequest.................................................................. 1,000.00
McMillan, A. W., gift......................................................................
611.31
McPeak, Mary J., bequest.............................................................. 2,348.58
Miles, W. E., bequest........................................................................ 3,000.00
Mitchell, S. J., bequest....................................................................
936.34
Neff, Jacob, bequest.........................................................................• 12,688.97

GRAND L ODGE 01!' CALIFORNIA

97

Neubaer, George S., bequest..........................................................
500.00
Nichols, E. H., bequest.................................................................. 2,500.00
Noah, Harriet T ., bequest...·-························-······························· 7,706.66
Noble, Florence C., bequesL..........................................................
710.00
Patton, Chas. L., bequest................................................................ 1,000.00
Payne, Mary A., bequest.................................................................. 1,842.32
Perine, George :M., gift.................................................................. 7,100.00
Potting, Nellie E., bequest......................................................................
880.00
~obinson, E lizabeth, bequest........................................................ 1,000.00
Roby., J. T ., bequest..........................................................................
802.05
Rogers, Noah H ., bequest................................................................ 1,000.00
Rosenberg, Harry L., bequest ....................................................,... 2,750.00
Rosenmayer, Jacob J., bequest...................................................... _
500.00
Rastetter, M. Pauline, bequest ........................................................ 10,759.80
Schilling, Levi, bequest.................................................................. 5,000.00
Schroeder, Dietrich, bequest.......................................................... 3,662.50
Seimers, John D., bequest................................................................
500.00
Shepard, A. D., bequest..................................................................
850.00
Siller, John. L., bequest.................................................................... 1,000.00
Smith, Mrs. E., bequest..................................................................
632.05
Smith, Wm. F., bequest..............................................................·.....• 5,079.02
Stocks, Louis G., bequest...........................·-···································· 1,070.00
Tillotson, F. M., bequest.................................................................. 1,673.39
Walker, Perry J., bequest..............................................................
746.52
Walter, August, bequest..................................................................
998.79
Warnock, Wm. H., bequest............................................................ 5,790.29
Watson, Frank G., gift...................................................................... 1,455.00
Watson, Henry, bequest.................................................................. 1,000.00
Weden, bequest ................................................................................ 2,417.48
W egeforth, Lillie, bequest.....................................,........................ 1,040.00
Weisenfeld, Marianne, bequest...................................................... 1,171.50
Whicher, John, gift............................................................................
500.00
White, Warren S., bequest........................-'·····························-···· 6,190.45
Wing, Isabel la N., bequest..............................................................
500.00
Wisnom, Wm. D., bequest..............................................................
500.00
Wood, F. C., bequest......................................................................
500.00
Wood, Francis G., bequest..............................................................
500.00
Yarneberg, Chas., bequest........................:..................................... 6,210.72
Zehnder, Mr. and Mrs., gift............................................................
500.00
Zeisler, Adolph, bequest..................................................................
922.70

98

99

PROCEEDINGS OF' 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Buildings at Decoto

They have scrutinized every item of expenditure and have urged the
Superintendents to observe the strictest economy in their expenditures
for supplies and clothing. We believe those two excellent brethren
are not only competent but conscientious in the discharge of their
responsible duties, and no complaint of extravagance can be justly
lodged against them.

The building program approved by the Grand Lodge in 1921
is now fully completed, with the exception of one dormitory back of
the south wing, which building will not be needed for several years.
The first contracts were entered into (on competitive bids) in April,
1922, and you now have a group of buildings, all as nearly fireproof
as mechanical ingenuity can provide, that are not only an ornament
to the landscape, but a visible monument to the generosity and
thoughtfulness of the craft for those of its members who, by the
variations and vicissitudes of fortune and the ills incident to old age,
have not been able to accumulate funds sufficient to maintain them,
and who must perforce of evil circumstances seek a haven a home
provided by their brethren.
'
'

The income for the maintenance of the Home is derived from a
per capita tax of 25 cents, and the revenue from initiates. The income
from the per capita tax is small, and the maintenance of the Home
rests primarily on the revenue from initiates. For several years the
number of initiates has fallen below the preTious year. In 1921, when
our building program was approved, Lodges reported 9,208 initiates;
in 1929 there were 6,789, and in 1930 there were 5,800. The year 1931
doubtless will show a further decline in accessions to our Lodges.
This is in the face of the fact that California is the only jurisdiction
in the world which shows any material gain in membership; many
jurisdictions are actually losing.
From revenues available for that purpose, the group of buildings
at Decoto has been built and paid for, with the exception of an
indebtedness of $280,000.00, which the trustees believe can be cancelled within the next four years. The Homes, however, cannot be
maintained on the present basis of per capita tax unless through some
unexpected revival the number of initiates is increased.

In 1921 the Decoto Home housed a family of 138. Now 299
residents are domiciled there. Jn 1921 there were 513 Lodges on our
registry, with 85,000' members. In this good year of 1930 there are
580 Lodges, with a membership of more than 142,000. Inevitably,
the demands of the Lodges on the two Homes have increased and
witt continue to increase, and the cost of maintenance has mounted
from a gross expense of $103,000 in 1921, to $243,000 in 1929 and
$267,000 for the year just closed.
The decrease in yearly revenue and the steadily mounting cost
of maintaining our two Homes have engaged the serious and thoughtful consideration of the several members of the Board of Trustees.

At the present time the current expenses of the Homes exceed
the revenue available for that purpose. Either the revenue must be
increased, or the Trustees must find some means to reduce the expenses. The only source of additional revenue is an increase in the
per capita tax. In view of present depressed financial conditions, the
Trustees do not feel justified in recommending an increase in the per
capita tax at this communication of Grand Lodge, but the fact remains
that we cannot continue indefinitely to expend for maintenance more
than our current revenue. The alternative between reducing expenses
and increasing the per capita tax is an issue which in the near future
must be determined by Grand Lodge. We feel that the general
situation should be reported now, so that when the time for decision
arrives there will have been a sufficient opportunity for proper consideration and for a determination which meets the approval of the
Masons of California.

100

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Printed copies of this report are before you. We ask a careful
and sympathetic reading of it by the repre,sentatives of Lodges

pr~sent.

101

Report of Experts

To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California.

. To morrow you will have an opportunity to visit the Decoto
Home and we recommend that consideration of this report be fixed
for some convenient hour Thursday.
JAMES B. GIST, President;
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Vice-Preside1it;
SAMUEL E . BURKE,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
JoHN STEW ART Ross,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
FRANK w. MIXTER.

Following your authorization we have audited the accounts of the
Masonic Homes of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1930.
We present herewith the attached statements:

Statements of A cco1111tability for F1111ds and Properties
Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements (2 pages) .
Exhibit B: Balance Sheet (2 pages) .
Schedule Bet: Summarized statement of entertainment fund.
Schedule B-2: Summarized statement of scholarship fund.
Schedule B-3 : List of securities-Special Rule No. 16, Securities
Deposited.
Schedule B-4: Composition of special fund accounts.

Statements of Operatio11, Masonic Homes (Statistical)
Exhibit C: Summarized statement of revenue and ~xpenses.
Schedule C-1: Distribution of o~erating expenses in deta.il (2 pages) .
Schedule C-2: Statement of per capita costs.

C01111nents
A tentative adjustment has been made of the Decato home building account. This adjustment is based upon a testative figure supplied
by the architect. We understand construction will be completed during
the fiscal year . 1930-31. A final adjustment of the account will be made
at that time.
The difference in the total maintenance reported in the Cash Received and Disbursement Statement, and that reported in the Summarized
Statement of Revenue and Expenses, arises from the inclusion of noncash items in the Revenue and Expense Statement, such as store requisitions and farm produce consumed. The total maintenance figure reported
in the Cash Received and Disbursement Statement includes all maintenance expenses, including ge~eral maintenance, hospital, farm and laundry expenses, but excludes undistributed common expenses.
No accrued interest has been taken into account · in the attached
balance sheet.
We certify that the attached statements have been prepared from
the books of account and records of the Masonic Homes of California.
Respectfully submitted
R UCKSTELL & LAND, Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

102

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Secretary's Report
Exhibit A
~TATEM ENT OF CASH RECEIP'l'S AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1930.

General Fund
Cash balance in banks, August ·1, 1929....................
$ 4,156.37
Petty cash, Decoto and Covina.........:.:...:..:..:.....~.:......
1,000.00
Receipts
Home Maintenance Tax-Annual Returns ..............$ 34,350.25
Home Building Tax-Annual Returns.................... 68,700.50
$25.00 Home Tax............................................................ 176,175.00
Maintenance Subordinate Lodges, Decoto................ 1,120.00
Maintenance Subordinate Lodges, Covina................ 4,555.00
Endowment Fund interest............................................ 25,402.60
Interest, banks ..............................:................................. 1,769.17
Farm produce sales, Decoto........................................
1,122.71
Farm produce sales, Covina........................................ 4,644.80
Farm rent, Decot0 ........................................................
693.21
Miscellaneous (including salvage)............................
106.36
Refunds and Reimbursements:
. Funeral expense .............'.......................$2,034.17
Insurance .................................................. 831.34
Outside care of children...................... 279.80
Outside relief ·······- ································· 123.44
Merchandise purchases, Covina .......... 4,180.62
Refund-Mutual Construction Co ..... 6,447.00
13,896.37

103 .

Disburseme/tts
Maintenance, Decato ....................................................$107,374.59
Maintenance, Covina .................................................... 118,475.10
General and Other Expenses :
Outside Relief ............................................................ 20,565.00
Outside care of children.......................................... 3,462.60
Special Rule No. 16, interest..................................
536.00
Interest, Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
note .......................................................................... 4,000.00
Tnsurance .................................................................... 1,475.74
Taxes ............................................................................ 7,538.37
Secretary's salary ·....................................................
1,599.96
General office accounting..........................................
900.00
Trustees' expense ......................................................
471.54
Miscellaneous expenses ............................................
702.76
Funeral expenses, Decato........................................ 2,222.41
Hefund, $25.00 Home Tax..........................................
350.00
Automobile, second-hand Ford....................................
426.00
Building construction, Decoto.................................... 247,313.20
f.urniture and fixtures, Decoto.................................. 2,722.36
Tmprovements, Covina ·.................................................. 4,893.09
Laundry machinery, Covina........................................
891.50
Special Rule No. 16....................................................... 12,961.64
Entertainment fund ...................................................... 9,926.67
Students' Loan Fund.................................................... 6,350.60
Real estate and improvements, Camp Tucker........ 3,418.77
Refund to F. B. Hartman, Trustee.......................... 2,500.00

Total Disbursements ............................................

561,077.90

Cash Balance, July 31, 1930........................................
$ 7,333.91
Anglo California Trust Co. (book 0 / D) ............$
209.34"'
Security First National Bank (commercial) ..........
774.17
Anglo California Trust Co. (endowment interest)
3.797.28
Berkeley Bank (collection account) ........................ 1.971.80
Petty cash funds, Decoto and Covina.................... 1,000.00

Sale of securities ........................................................... .
266.00
Special Rule No. 16...................................................... 19,949.34
Entertainment fund ...................................................... 8,469.13
Students' loan fund ........................................................ 2,035.00
Loan from Anglo California Trust Co. at 4~%-­ 100,000.00
Loan from Endowment Fund, Masonic Homes
at 5% ........................................................................ 100.000.00

Total
*Red.

Total Receipts ........................................................

563,255.44

Total to Account for .....................•......................

$568,411.81

$ 7,333,91

104

GHAND LO DGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit B

L iabilities
Notes Payable:
Anglo California Trust Co.............................. $100,000.00
Endowment fund .................................................. 180,000.00

BALANCE SHEET, J U I,Y 31, 1930

Assets
Cash:
In banks................................................................$
Petty cash-Decoto............................................
Petty cash- Covina........................................._

6,333.91
500.00
500.00

Securities :
Special Rule ·No. 16 (Schedule B-3) ............$
General securities ..............................................
Scholarship fund securities ..............................

26,402.66
2,000.00
2,000.00

Decoto Home :
Land .....,.~.............................................................$ 44,969.90
Buildings '............................................................ 1,417,845.04
Building equipment............................................
56,452.55
Improvements ....................................................
48,411.26
71,096.32
Power plant and laundry..................................
64,370.69
Furniture arid fixtures......................................
Farm equipment..................................................
5,406.00
Farm investment............................~...................
8,000.00 ·
Covina Home:
Land .......: ....~ .......................................................$ 24,300.00
Buildings ·.......:.................................................... 474,330.09
Building equipment.. ..................•........... _:....... _
7,044.49
Improvements ....................................................
50,047.94
Laundry machinery and equipment................
6,609.80
Furniture and fixtures ......................................
14,517.66
Farm equipment..................................................
135.00
Hospital 'liuitding..................................'..............
53,999.09
Farm impro!1:ments..................:....:.....:..._. ........
1,205.85
Camp Ttick~r: Real estate............................$
lmprove~~hts .............................:................
suriC!ry real estate investments..............................
Automobiles ............................................................
Store and Supplies:
Decato ....................................................- ............$
Covina .........................................,. ........................

12,749.00
12,347.00

$

7,333.91

30,402.66

$280,000.00
Fund Accounts :
Residents' deposits................................................ 10,000.00
Special Rule No. 16 (due from gen. fund) 98,265.88
Special Rule No. 16 ( securities deposited ) 26,402.66
Entertainment fund ( Schedule B-1) ................ 4,103.77
Students' loan fund .............................................. 2,787.94
$141 ,560.25

1,716,551.76

T otal liabilities.....................................:........:.

$ 421,560.25

Net worth ........................................................

$1 ,994,519.80

Capital Acco1mt
Capital account, August 1, 1929..........c.....•.....•.••$1,938,318.66
68,700.50
Building fund collections........................................
Excess of expense over revenue for fiscal year
ended July 31, 1930.......................................... 12,499.36*

Net worth (as above) ................................
*Red.

632,189.92

25,096.00
1,279.22
1,522.78

369.42
1,334.38

l Ofi

1,703.80

$1,994,519.80

NoTE: The following items are not included in this statement: Donated real estate and securities received by the Secretary are not recorded
on the bcioks in the case of securities having little or rio value, and in case
of real estate, the value of which is uncertain. Upon realization of donated
real estate in cash, ·e ntry of cash realized "is entered in books, as the nrst
book record of the donation.
No depreciation on fixed properties !s reflected on the books or in the
above balance sheet.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule B-1
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF ENTERTAINMENT FUND
. FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1930
Balance, August 1, 1929 (due from general fund) ..........................$ 5,561.31
Receipts during year ....................... ,....................................................... 8,469.13
Total ............................................. , .................................................$14,030.44
Disbursements during year................ ................................................. 9,926.67
Balance, July 31, 1930 (due f )m general fund) ..................$ 4,103.77
Sched, le B-2

Stocks:
So. California Edison Co........... 7 shares cost $ 548.50
State Bldg. Mutual & Loan ........ 10 shares par 1,000.00
San Jose Building & Loan............ 6 shares par
300.00
San Jose Mutual Bldg. & Loan.. 2Y, shares par
500.00
Kern County Bldg. & Loan ........ 15 shares par 1,500.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co ............. 208 shares par 5,200.00
Kolster Radio................................................................
246.20
Transamerica ................................ 7 shares par
175.00
Transamerica..................................
· scrip
10.00
share
1.00
Intercoast Trading Co................,
Receivers Certificate, the U. S.
54.48
National Bank, Dinuba, Calif ........................... :..... .
500.00 $10,035.18
Mercantile American Realty Co. 5 · shares par

Receipts during year ............................................................. .

2,895.00

Total.. ..............................................................................
- Di~bur~ements during year ..................................................

$8,998.54
6,210.60

Notes:
William J. Mellis, et al... ...............................................$1,200.00
August Kangris and Marie Kangris .......................... 1,680.96
P. 0. Little and wife ...................................................... 2,050.00
John E. Pershing (deed of trust) ..............: ............... 1,845.02
Ervina A. and Estella A. Cleveland to Barbara Hill 800.00
Contract of sale, Christian Miller property............... 1,041.50
James and Emily A. Richards .............. :..................... 300.00
Samuel Leask .................................................................. 2,800.00
Geo. H. and Esther A. Hoag...................................... 2,150.00
J. Donald and Margaret McCready.......................... 500.00

Balance, July 31, 1930................................................

$2,787.94

Total.. ..........................................................................

SUMMARIZED STATEMENT )F STUDENTS' LOAN FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDE.D JULY 31, 1930
Balance, August 1, 1929:
Cash (due from general fund) ......................................$5,103.54
Securities .......................................................................... 1,000.00 $6,103.54

Compoiition offm1d

$ 787.94
Cash .(due. from general fund) ...... :..:..................................
Securides : . '
100 shares Masonic Temple Association stock.: ......,.$1,000,00
Ctt. Widows and Orphans' Fund, Islam Temple ...... 1,000.00 $2.000.00
Tbtal. ................................. - ............... :..........................

107

14,367.48
$26,402.66

Schedule B-4
COMPOSITION OF SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS
JULY 31, 1930
Special Rule No. 16:
Cash due from general fund ....................................... :..................$ 98,265.88
Securities on hand .................................................................:..... :;.~~ 26,402.66

$2,787.94

Schedule B-3
LIST OF SECURITIES-SPECIAL RULE NO. 16---SECURIT!ES DEPOSITED
JULY 31, 1930
Bonds:
Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton R.R. Co .... .4Y,% $1,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co ............................... 6%
1,000.00 $ 2,000.00

Total.. ............................................................................................$124,668.54
*Residents' Deposits:
Cash due from general fund ..........................................................$ 10,000.00
1,691.00
Cash in bank .................................................. :...................................
Total.. ............................................................................................$ 11,691.00
*Gloria Benjamin, Trust Fund: Cash in bank...............................
1,261.87
*Cash in banks is contained in separate bank accounts, apart from the
General Fund bank accounts of the Masonic Homes of California.

108

109

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit C
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSES (STATISTICAL)

Funeral expense ................................................................................
Trustees' expense..............................................................................
Sundry expense.............. :...................................................................

188.24
471.54
702.76

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1930

Rei•e1me
Decato
Revenue from General Sources :
Maintenance fund:
$25.00 Home tax .......................... ····-···········
Per capita tax..............................
Int. on endowment fund securities ················
Interest on bank deposits, etc........ · ......
H • • o o o o o o o OOOOO

~--·······

Covina

Total

Total common expense undistributed ....................................$ 40,205.63
Total expenses..............................................................................$274,579.69

················ $175,845.00
34,350.25
···············•
................
25,402.60
................
1,769.17

Total.. ............................................................
$237,367.02
Revenue Direct From Operations of Homes:
Maintenance, subordinate Lodges ..$ 1,120.00 $ 4,555.00 $ 5,675.00
12,578.47
Farm produce, sales.......................... 5,680.37
18,258.74
Farm rent............................................
693.21
693.21
Salvage ..............................................
86.36
86.36
Total..............................................$ 7,579.94 $ 17,133.37 $ 24,713.31
Total revenue from all sources................................................$262,080.33

Expenses
Maintenance ............ (Schedule C-1) $ 57,052.32 $ 55,129.58 $112,181.90
Hospital ...................... (Schedule C-1) 10,914.57
6,840.70
17,755.27
Farm ..........................-(Schedule C-1)
6,603.04
19,781.46
26,384.50
Laundry ...................... (Schedule C-1)
3,837.40
2,683.98
6,621.38
22,580.99
Payroll ........................ (Schedule C-1) 13, 102.73
35,683.72
General expense.......... (Schedule C-1) 21,001.27
14,746.02
35,747.29
TotaL...........................................$112,611.33 $121,762.73 $234,374.06
Common Expense Undistributed:
Outside relief ....................................................................................$ 20,44t56
Outside care of children.....................................-........................... 3,182.80
Insurance ..........................................................................................
644.40
Taxes .................................................................................................. 7,538.37
Secretary's salary.............................................................................. 1,599.96
General office accounting................................................................
900.00
Interest, Special Rule No. 16................................................ :.......
536.00
Interest on notes payable................................................................ 4,000.00

Excess of revenue over expenses (Exhibit B) ................•$ 12,499.36
*Red.
Schedule C-1
DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPE N SES IN DETAIL (STATISTICAL)
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR E NDED JU!.Y 31, 1930

E:rpenses
Mainfmance E.1:f'e1ise
Decato
Covina
Total
Grocerii:s ·············-·····························$ 6,915.03 $ 13,586.69 $ 20,501.72
Meats .................................................. 6,809.62
3,321.59
10,131.21
Fish ····················································
810.71
435.75
1,246.46
Provision (cured and smoked
1,282.09
3,666.23
meats) ............................................ 2,384.14
·Fruits and vegetables ...................... 3,387.42
7,346.19
3,958.77
Butter, eggs and milk. ..................... 10,719.67
10,294.62
21,014.29
Baker supplies.................................... 4,707.79
1,813.93
6,521.72
657.60
Medical supplies and drugs ............ ················
657.60
2,759.42
3,549.28
Dental expense ································
789.86
1,703.29
5,059.30
Clothing ............................................. 3,356.01.
2,670.18
469.08
2,201.10
Shoes ...................................................
1,917.50
356.90
Bedding ............................................... 1,560.60
1,773.32
1,773.32
School supplies and instruction.... ················
Kitchen and dining room :
12,401.38
6,225.88
Operating and misc. expense.... 6,175.50
4,735.88
13,637.46
Payroll ........................................ 8,901.58
88.06
22.75
Repairs and maintenance..........
65.31
Total maintena~ce ......................$ 57,052.32 $ 55,129.58 $112,181.90

Hospital Expense
Miscellaneous expense ..................$ 3,411.62 $ 5,055.70 $ 8,467.32
Payroll .............................................. 7,502.95
1,785.00
9,287.95
T otal hospital ............................$ 10,914.57 $ 6,840.70 $ 17,755.27

- -

-Y>

-Y7

w 'l

\O~ N°'N';......

-~
U\

;......;_o°'°'

\o

. j:>

~
0\
~

""o

~~
Oo
'l -

°'

-

...... 0\ 00 ........ ,+:..
00 '-l 0\ CJl \0

tntntnt.HO\

-Y>

w

U\

~

;!::j

i;:l

•
0\•-

'N
-

~&~
0 '1;.....

' l 0\ ' l

.. .

00
0

·°' . ' l

w

-{fl

-Y>

-Y>

N

N

'D

g_·

0 \o 5
0

- °'
-Y>

'D

~

-Y7 ~
N

U\

00 0\

00

0 00
'"-i::..

°'

ow

w

8~

i::l

-

~

<;::.

0
00
00

'D

-Y7

t: ~ ~~ R3
?' ~ !'V !'V !'V
~ ~ ~ t;

:s

°''° .. °'
-Y7

w 00

00

w
\o

00

""';.....

~

°'

0 0<.,.,
0

:i..
0\

-Y>

-Y7

~ :0

-Y7
0\

~

w
00

~

N

0\

-{fl

0\ 0\ 0\

"'-'
';...... en ......
0100 ....... 0000
o;......o-.°';.....
OOtn....,.ON
....,...J::o.N~\O

-{fl

00 ' l 'D

U\
<no
.j:> 00

w
00

'10\oVJN

0
;.....N

u.
0

Do ;...... ;..... ;...... ;......

0\

N

.j:>

'lO-l'>'DO\
0\ ,+:.. ........ tn ......
CX>tnOO...._.N

PER CAPITA COSTS-DECOTO
D eco to

1921

1922

1923

1924

1925

1926

1927

1928

1929

1930

Cost of Maintenance* .......................... .$58,954.04 $62,308.04 $59,761.55 $68,675.52 $81,375.86 $81,932.83 $80,839.22 $88,282.75 $92,974.69 $106,151.35
AvE.rage number of residents ...............
145
148.75
213
194
224
242
260
148
165.66
281+
Average operating cost per month ...... $4,912.83+ $5,192.33
$4,980.12
$5,722.96
$6,781.32
$6,827.73
$6,736.60
$7,356.89
$7,747.89
$8,845.94
Average cost per day .............................
161.52
170.07
222.94
224.47
221.47
241.87
163.73
188.15
254.72
290.82
Average cost per resident per year....
418.89
414.55
H9.46
384.66
360.89
364.80
357.59
377.76
403.79
406.57+
Average cost per resident per month.
33.88
34.90
34.95
32.05
30.o7
30.40
29.79
33.65
34.54
31.48
Average cost per resident per day ......
1.148
1.135
1.114
1.15
1.053
.98
.99
.981.106
1.03+
28
Average number of employes ..............
22.6
:!6.5
24
27
31
30.5
24.5
24
3'l

('

:<J

>
z
0

....

"The Maintenance Cost includes General Maintenance, Farm, Laundry, Pay Roll and General Expense less farm produce sales and all other
credits appertaining to the direct operation of the Homes.

0
0

G}

l'l
0

PER CAPITA COSTS-COVINA
Covina

1921

1922

1923

1924

1925

1926

1927

1928

1929

1930

Cost of Maintenance* ..........................'37,383.84 $55,507.14 $61,691.66 $61,828.90 $73,002.73 $76,313.93 $79,036.83 $90,351.04 $101,803.18 $109,184.26
Average number of residents...............
70.3
92
105
144
113
165
166
172
184
185+
Average operating cost per month ...... $3,115.32
$4,625.59
$6,586.40
$7,529.25
$8,48.'l.59
$5,140.97
$5,152.41 j:6.083.56
$6,359.49
~9,098.69
102.42
152.07
Average cost per day .............................
169.02
169.40
247.53
209.07
216.54
278.91
200.00+
299.13
Average cost per resident per year ____
531.77
603.33
587.M
M7.16
506.96
462.50
476.12
525.29
553.27
590.18
44.31
Average cost per tesident per month.
48.96
;;0.21+
45.59
38.54
43.77
42.24+
39.67+
46.10
49.18
Average cost p er r esident p er day......
1.457
1.611.39-1.441.65+
1.50-1.516
1.26+
1.30+
1.61+
Average number of employes ... :.........._.
15
16.5
2228
18
19
23
25
3029+
"The Maintenance Cost includes General Maintenance, Farm, Laundry, Pay Roll a nd General Expense less farm produce sales and all other
credits appertaining to the direct· operation of the Homes.
Xumber of children liYing outside the Home receiving s upport..
8
Cost per year............---·-························-·········································-$3,182.80
Average cost per year-................................................................... 397.85
Average cost p e r child p er month ....................................,.........
33.15

")

0

>
r

:;;

0
:0

z

>

......
.....
.....

112 .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Endowment Securities:
U. S. Government Bonds, at par:
First Liberty Loan--converted ......... .4~% $ 11,700.00
Fourth Liberty Loan .............................. 4~% 182,350.00* $194,050.00

Exhibit A
Endowment Fund
STATEMENT OF CASH RF.CEJI'TS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL VF.AR F.NDED J U LY 31,

1930

Cash on hand, July 31, 1929................................................................$131,558.17

• Receipts
Donations .......................... :.............................................$
391.56
Bequests ............................................. ............................. 11 ,502.93
Sundry receipts :
Deceased residents' deposits ..............$2,008.25
Other ...................................................... 2,017.45
4,025.70
Sale of 25 shares preferred stock, Lewis and
Company, San Jose ........................... ~ ........................

500.00

Total receipts ......................................................
Total cash funds to account for ....................

113

16,420.19
$147.978.36

Disbursements
Masonic Homes of California n<ite ....................5% $100,000.00
Purchased-Common stock, So. Calif. Edison Co.
84.20
Total disbursements ......................................... .

$100,084.20

Cash on hand, July 31, 1930...........:..............................

$ 47,894.11\

Exhibit B
COMPOSITION OF E N DOWMENT FUND
JULY 31, 1930

F.11dowment Cash (Sa·l'ings Accounts):
Humboldt Branch, Bank of America of Calif...$ 33,717.02
French Amer. Branch, Bk. of Amer. of Calif. 5,883.58
Anglo-California Trust Company........................ 2,963.00
American Trust Company .................:.................... 2,500.00
Crocker First Federal Trust Co...........................
330.56
The San Francisco Bank........................................ 2,500.00 $ 47,894.16

r>ther Bonds, at Par:
City of Santa Barbara, Street.. ............... .4}'2%
11,287.50
1,000.00
City of Santa Barbara, Water ................4}'2%
City and County of San Francisco, City
Hall ..........................................................5 o/o 21,000.00
City and County of San Francisco,
1,000.00
Street Railway ...................................... 5 %
City and County of San Francisco,
Water .....,..................................................4Y.% 40,000.00
City and County of San Francisco,
10,000.00
Sewer ........................................................5 %
City of Richmond, Municipal Improve5,000.00
ment ..........................................................5 %
3,125.00
City of Upland, Municipal Improvement ..6 %
9,000.00
City of Ashland, Water .............................. 5 %
16,000.00
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co .........5 %
California Gas & Electric Corporation ....5 % . 19,000.00
5,000.00
Los Angeles Railway Co .............................5 %
3,000.00
Spring Valley Water Co............................. 5 %
5,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co ........................... 5 %
1,500.00 $150,912.50
Jonathan Club of Los Angeles ................ 7 %
Other Bonds at Cost:
$ 5,000 East Bay Municipal Util. Dist ... 5 % $ 5,326.55
3,000 Oroville Union High School
District ............................................ 5 %
3,114.63
10,000 Los Angeles County Flood Control District .................................... 5 %
10,720.64
5,000 Long Beach High School... ......... 5 %
5,417.65
Stock, Southern California Edison Co. (Cost)
Masonic Homes of California-Note .......... 5 %
Donated Stacks, Bonds, etc., at Face Value•
Stocks:
Olympic Dredging Co., 5 shares ..........................$
500.00
Masonic Temple Association, 2,125% shares. ... 21,252.50
Taft Masonic Temple Association, 1 share......
100.00
790.00
Los Angeles Investment Co., 79 shares..............

24,579.47
320.35
180,000.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

116

117

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The making, ma.rking ~nd mending of linen, s heets, pillow-slips,
table cloths, preserving fruits, etc., is attended to by the women of
~he Horr_ie. They also assist in preparing fruit and vegetables, work
in the kitchen and in the dining room, and take care of their rooms,
halls and 1aundry and general household duties.
At this season of the year the natural supply of water is lower,
and there has been a decrease _in service given by the deep well pump.
It has been necessary to connect with the Niles water supply and
by means of an auxiliary pump we have been able to keep our reservoirs full at all times and equal to any demand made upon them.
Library and Club Rooms-There are now 5,600 books on the
shelves of our new main library and branches located in the club
rooms and hospital department. The Masonic Hill branch of the
Alameda County Free Library continues to be well patronized and
enables our family to obtain many of the latest books. In addition
we are the re~ipients, through members of the fraternity, of daily
papers, magazines and periodicals, which are placed on the tables
of t~e men's club rooms and ladies' reading and social rooms. A
reading class for those with impaired eyesight, or entirely blind
me~ts daily. in the main library. At that time the daily papers and
subiects of interest are read to them by good readers selected from
members of the Home.
Soci~l Life-The members of the Home have, during the past
y~ar, enioyed many splendid programs and stage plays provided by
!ru~nds, who are int~rested in their welfare. These evening gatherm~s often c~ose :v1th dancing.. Every Thursday evening we all
enioy a moving picture entertainment. Every Tuesday evening a
social is held in the Assembly Hall where tables are provided for
card&, chess, checkers, etc. Choir practice every Friday evening
The usual services are held every Sunday afternoon. These service~
are often conducted by ministers, accompanied by the choirs of their
churches, after which a few musical numbers are given by the
Home orchestra.
A_number of the members of the Home have radio sets i~stalled
.
in their roo~s. This privilege is particularly appreciated by those
who. are bhnd and those who are ·confined to their beds in the
hospital department.
..
~II holidays have been observed with appropriate exercises. Th~
specials _were those which were held on New Year's Eve, New Year's
Day, Lincoln and Washington's birthday, Easter, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.
Farm-There has been no change in the management of the
farm. ~he greater part of the hill ranch has, as in the past, been
leased either on shares or cash rental. Our share has been more

than sufficient for the needs of the farm department, the surplus
being sold in the local market. The orchards have supplied plenty
of fruit for table use, the surplus being preserved or sent to the
<lrier and stored for future use. The garden has furnished a variety
of vegetables and greens. The chicken ranch has supplied all eggs
for table use; air over and above our needs have been preserved in
water glass or sold in the San Francisco market.
Arrangements have been made whereby members of the family,
a few ·at a time, may enjoy an outing to nearby places of interest.
During the year many trips are made to Oakland, San Francisco
and towns in the vicinity of the Home.
Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg and officers of the Grand
Lodge have made a number of visits to the Home during the year
and a large number of brethren from various Lodges have spent
many pleasant hours with us. The number of visitors and donations received this year indicates an increasing interest in the welfare of the Home family.
I wish to extend my appreciation of the loyal services rendered
by the officers and employees throughout the year, and express to
the Board of Trustees my sincere gratitude for the friendly advice
and support they have at all times given me.
Fraternally submitted,
FRANK B. HARTMAN, S11pcrilltende11t.
Visitations to Decoto Home
September 14, 1929', San Francisco Pyramid No. 1, A. 0 . Sciots.
Band concert in afternoon, minstrel show in the evening.
September 18, 1929, Golden West Lodge No. 455. Entertainment in the Assembly Hall.
October, ·Annual visit of Grand Officers and members of the
Grand Lodge.
October 19, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Miscellaneous Program.
November 2, Live Oak Lodge No. 61. Moving pictures, musical
program.
November 9, Unity Chapter No. 65, 0. E. S. Vocal and instrumental program.
December 21, Jobs Daughters and Order of De Molay, Hayward. Stage play, etc:
January 17, 1930, Joint installation of Officers of Alameda No.
167, Alisa) No. 321 and Mosaic Lodge No. 218, Grand Master Charles
M. Wollenberg, Installing Officer; T homas J . Baker, Grand Lecturer,
Master of Ceremonies.

118

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

February 22, California Chapter, Order De Molay.
and musical program.

Stage play

March 9, Aahmes Shrine Chanters. Musical program.
March I5, Amador Valley High School Students. Operetta
"Riding Down the Bay."
April I2, Masonic Club, University of California. Stage play,
musical program.
April I7, Golden Rule Lodge No. 479. Entertainment in Assem.

~ Hill

April I9, Standard Lodge No. 440. Miscellaneous program given
by Boy Scouts.
April 26, Mary E. Partridge Chapter No. 308, 0. E. S.
laneous program.

Miscel-

April 28, Ladies' Auxiliary, California Commandery No. I, K. T.
Musical program.
May I I, Masonic Bodies of San Joaquin County. Band concert.
May I3, Mountain View Lodge No. I94. Third Degree.
May I4, John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669. third Degree.
May I5, Illustrated Lecture by J. Bruce, "Hunting Mountain
Lions."

etc.

May I7, Apollo Lodge No. 396. Miscellaneous program.
May I8, Lebanon Chapter No. 374, 0. E. s.· Musical program,
May 22, Alameda Lodge No. I67. Third Degree.

May 24, Charity Lodge No. 362, and Elmhurst Lodge No. 610.
Stage play, musical program.
June I, Berkeley Bethel No. 52, Jobs Daughters. Stage play,
"Mrs. Clancey's Seance."
·
June 4, Fruitvale Chapter Order De Molay. Second Degree, etc.
June 6, Sewing Circle, Hayward Chapter No. 33I, 0 . E. S.
Entertainment in Assembly Hall.
June 7, Amity Chapter No. 262, 0. E . S. Stage play, "The Sunbonnet Girl."
June 8, Past Matrons, Burlingame Chapter No. 275, O. E. S.
Stage play and musical program.
June 11, Campbell Players Club. Stage play, etc.
June I4, Berkeley, Alameda and Richmond Pyramids of Sciots.
Miscellaneous program.
June I5, San Francisco Chapter Order De Molay.
degree.

Second

119

June I7, Jewell Lodge No. 374. Band concert.
June 20, Girls from Oakland School of Dancing. Miscellaneous
program.
June 2I, Far West Lodge No. 673. Third degree.
August 9, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Stage play, musical program.
August I6, Annual visit of the East Bay Matron's Association,
O. E. S., accompanied by the Worthy Grand Matron and the Worthy
Grand Patron.
August 23, Oakland Lodge No. I88. Miscellaneous program.
August 30, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Entertainment in the
Assembly Hall.
Donations to Decoto Home
R. E . Miller, San Francosco-I Isotta Fraschini Touring Car.
Mrs. Lelia W. Prather-I Duo Art Piano, 20 P iano Records.
F. H. Gray-2 packages of magazines.
. .
Golden West Lodge No. 455-65 lbs. of candy, 250 cigars.
So. San Francisco Lodge No. 2I2-2 suits of men's clothing. .
N. C. Gregory, Washington Lodge No. 20-I package of magazmes.
Dinuba Lodge No. 385-4 boxes of grapes.
J. Slack, San Francisco-I box of clothing.
Diglet Noor Dates Co., Indio-50 lbs. of dates.
Oroville Chapter No. 103, R. A. M.-5 gallons of ripe olives.
G. E. Murch-I package of men's clothing. ·
Burton F. Becker, Oakland-2 boxes of apples, 2 boxes of oranges.
Dr. M. E. Herrmann-I pair of men's shoes.
Sewing Club, Fruitvale Chapter No. 297, 0 . E. S.-3 boxes of apples,
2 boxes of oranges.
W. P. Rockwell-I large package of magazines.
Isabel Buchanan-4 volumes of books.
Charles Wallstein, Oakland-I package of magazines.
Samuel C. Miller-1 - 4x6 American Flag.
Natoma Chapter No. 233, 0 . E. S.-I vase.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. A. M.-5 gallons of ripe olive.s.
F. O. Sheldon, Porterville-3 boxes of oranges.
Mrs. Berenice Baxter-I package of magazines.
San Francisco Chapter, Order of De Molay-150 cigars, I5 lbs.
candy.
H. M. Saad, Oakland No. I88-6 dozen packs playin!S cards. .
c. F. Carl, Oakland-3 years' subscription, Geographical Magazme,
I package of periodicals.
.
Mill Valley Chapter No. 2I9, 0. E. S.-20 Jars of jelly, 2 boxes
cakes.

120

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Etta Hoyt, Los Gatos-2 picture books.
E. V. Bogard, Lindsay-! box of oranges.
Lodi Chapter No. 150, 0. E; S.-42 jars of jams and jellies.
The Times Mirror Co., Los An~eles-1 year's subscription to
Los Angeles Times.
East Bay Matrons: Association-92 bureau scarfs, 16 ladies' gowns,
14 men's nightshirts, 51 . comforters, 1 pillow, 2 pillow covers,
5 cases of pineapple No. 10, 5 cases of peaches No. 10, 10 hospital gowns, 1520 glasses of jellies, etc.
Mrs. ]. Potter, Long Beach-S canes.
]. C. Howard, San Francisco-! box men's clothing, etc.
W. A. Stephenson-! package men's clothing.
Harry While, Lindsay-! box of oranges.
John E. Ellis, Los Gatos-10 volumes of books, 1 package periodicals.
G. A. Hill, So. San Francisco Lodge No. 212-3 suits men's clothing,
3 hats.
F. E . Bush-5 pair blankets, 2 bed-spreads, 6 pillow cases, 5 sheets.
Mrs. Eva St. Clair Johnson-1 package periodicals.
L. Wilkins-1 box oranges.
A. S. McKellar, Strathmore-2 boxes oranges.
Sewing Club, Hayward Chapter No. 331, 0. E. S.-1 comforter,
8 gallons ice cream, 10 cakes.
Geo. F. Flagg, San Francisco-150 lbs. smoking tobacco, 40 lbs.
chewing tobacco.
Mrs. A. Dixon, San Francisco-! large box of men's clothing.
Mrs. L. A. Murch, San Mateo-1 package men's clothing, 1 package
ladies' clothing.
Mrs. Anna Wilbur-5 gramaphone records.
Past Matrons' Association, · 1928-2 comforters.
Mary McGuire-1 vanity dresser, 1 chiffonier, 1 settee, 2 upholstered
chairs, 1 card table.
Alameda Lodge No. 167-10 gallons ice cream.
Orient Chapter No. 177, 0. E. S.-30 large home-made cakes.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479-150 cigars, 35 lbs. candy.
Le.banon Chapter No. 374, 0. E. S.-75 glasses of jelly.
V. Peck, Berkeley-! box oranges.
Apollo Lodge No. 396---175 boxes of candy, 150 cigars.

121

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home
Lodges
Lodge
No.
Alpha ........................... .431
Apollo ..........................396
Argonaut ..................... .461
Amador ........................ 65
Alcatraz ......................244
Argonne ........................ 514
Acorn ............................ 494
Amity -··························370
Alameda ...................... 16i'
Athens ...... ,...................228
Ashlar ..........................306
Arcata ......................... .106
Adin ............... :..............250
Alturas ........................248
Atascadero ................ ..493
Alisa) ............................ 321
Alta ............................... 333
Alamo ........................... .122
Artesia ..........................377
Antioch .... - .................. 175
Blackmer ......................442
Berkeley ......................363
Balder ............................393
Bay City ...................... 526
Burlingame ..................400
Brooklyn ...................... 225
Buckeye ........................ 195
Bay View ....................401
Curtis ............................ 140
Charity ........................ 362
Calaveras ...................... 78
Caledonia .................... 486
Corinthian .................... 9
Coronado ......................441
Crockett ..,.................. .139
Compass ...................... 590
.Carquinez .................... 337
Charter Rock ............... .410
Cupertino .................... 510
Covenant ......................527

Amt.
$10.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
50.00
15.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
6.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00 .
25.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
2.50
25.00

Lodge
No.
Clay .............................. 101
Cahuenga ......................513
California .................... 1
Chico ........................... .111
Concord ........................ 117
Coalinga ........ :............. 387
Colusa .......................... 240
Corona ..........................324
Claremont ................... .436
Crescent ...................... 45
Callayomi ....................282
Clinton .......................... 119
Doric ............................216
Durant ..........................268
Dun'smuir ................... .297
Delta ........................... .471
Downey ........................220
Escalon ........................ 591
Evergreen ................... .295
Eureka .......................... 16
Eucalyptus ................. .243
East Gate......................290
Emmanuel ....................318
El Cajon Valley .......... 576
El Segundo .................. 507
East San Diego .......... 561
El Dorado.................... 26
Elmhurst ......................610
El Centro ...................... 385
East Bay........................ 489
Excelsior ...................... 166
Eden .....,........................ 113
Eel River ...................... 147
Fairmount ................... .435
Fraternity .................... 399
Fruitvale ...................... 336
Francis Drake .............. 376
Ferndale ...................... 193
Fidelity ........................ 120
Fort Crook .................. 575

Amt.
10.00
15.00
50.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.0U
5.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
5.00

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Fremont
.............. ..497
Frcano ........................247
Friendship ....................211)
Forest .......................... 66
Fillmore
.~79
Fallbrook ....
:117
Far West......................6,3
Franklin ................~.....143
Gold Hill..................... 32
Guardian .......... .. ........596
Golden Gate
......... 30
Galt ....,........ ,.................267
Golden Rule..................479
Geor1etown ................ 25
I iollcnbcck ..................319
I leaperian ....................264
I iammonton ................433
lfoward ........................ 96
Hiram .......................... 43
Henry Knox ..............662
Henry Morse
Stephens ..................541
Hollywood ..................355
Hawaiian ...................... 21
Hanford ......................279
Henry S. Orme............458
Herman ........................127
Hills Ferry..................236
Honolulu ....................409
Hartley .........:..............199
Ione .............................. 80
Indian Rock ................638
John P. Jarmon ..........669
Jonathan ......................545
Jewel ............................374
Justice ..........................549
Jubilee ..........................604
Kaweah ........................665
Libertas ........................466
La Mesa ......................407
Los Gatos ....................292
Lakeshore ....................551
Lompoc ........................262

Amt.
5.00
15.00
10.00
6.25
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

5.00
10.00
50.00
10.00
10.00
100.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Liberty ..........................299
La Parfaite Union ...... 17
Laurel ..........................245
La Brea ........................650
Lincoln ........................470
Lodi ..............................256
Los Angeles ................ 42
Long Beach ................327
Landmark ....................253
Live Oak .......... :........... 61
Mendocino .................... 179
Mountain View............194
Mission .........................169
Malta ............................661
Mosaic ..........................218
Morgan Hill ................463
Modesto ........................675
Maricopa ....................434
McKinley ....................347
Mount Moriah .............. 44
Monterey ......................217
Marin .......................... 191
Midway ........................426
Military Service..........570
Madera ........................280
Martinez ...................... 41
Madison ... :.................... 23
Mill Valley.................. 356
Mt. Diablo ..................448
Mt. Oso ........................460
Molino ........................ 150
Nicolaus ......................129
Natoma ........................ 64
.Naval .......................... 87
Nevada ........................ 13
Needles ........................336
Norwalk ......................315
Oxnard ........................341
Oriental ........................ 144
Oakland ........................188
Oak Grove ................215
Oceanside ....................381
Occidental .................... 22

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
25.00
5.00
.25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00

Lodge
No.
Ontario ........................301
Orland ..........................265
Oasis ............................664
Orosi ............................383
Pacific ..........................136
Perris ..........................411
Pinole ..........................353
Pasadena ......................272
Parnassus ....................388
Piedmont ....................521
Palo Alto ....................346
Pomona ........................246
Paul Revere ................462
Petaluma .................... 180
Pajaro ..........................110
Point ............................503
Palisades ......................637
Pacific Grove ..............331
Palestine ......................351
Park ............................449
Point Firmin ................558
Plumas .......................... 60
Patterson ....................488
Presidio ........................354
Pittsburg ......................429
Paso Robles ..................286
Phoenix ........................ 178
Russian River ..............181
Rockridge ....................468
Richmond ....................375
Rising Light ................397
Riverside ......................635
Roosevelt ......................500
Ramona ........................457
Redwood City .............. 168
Reading ......................254
Rio Vista ....................208
San Simeon ................196
San Jose ...................... 10
Southern California....278
Seaport ........................ 550
Santa Cruz.................... 38
San Gabriel ..................546

Amt.
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
25.00
20.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00

Lodge
N o.
San Pasqual ............... .452
Solano ..........................228
Sil veyville ....................201
So. San Francisco......212
Sunnyvale ....................511
Santa Monica..............207
Standard ......................440
San Diego .................... 35
Starr King....................344
Silver Gate....................296
Sierra Madre................408
Sincerity ...................... 132
Santa Rosa .................... 57
Santa Paula..................291
Silver Trowel... ...........415
San Pedro ....................332
San Dimas .................... 428
San Benito.................... 211
Sacramento .................. 40
St. Helena.................... 93
San Miguel..................285
San Mateo....................226
San Bernardino............348
Sequoia .......................;349
Santa Barbara............ 192
Santa Maria..................580
Security ...............,......581
Snow Mountain ............271
Suisun ........................ 55
Semper Virens ............552
South Pasadena ..........367
Tehama ........................ 3
Thousand Oaks............ 478
Temblor ......................477
Taft .............................. 516
Triangle ......................548
Tuolumne .................... 8
Tehachapi ....................313
Tuscan ..........................261
Texas ............................ 46
Truckee ........................200
Union ............................ 58
Vesper .......................... 84

123

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
40.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
31.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter

No.

Amt.

Amapola ..................... .! 19
Buena Vista .................. 364
Corona .......................... 107
Golden Wave ................ 103

$25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

Chapter

127

Names of Residents-Decato Home

No.

Amt.

Mercedes ...................... 126
Mill Valley ..................219
Ocean View.................. 111
San Rafael... ................. 215

$10.00
20.00
5.00
20.00

Iudividuals and Miscellaneous
Tom M. Lepetich ..........................................................................................$ 2.00
Frank G. Watson.......................................................................................... 10.00
Officers Association 28th Masonic District.............................................. 6.00
Ole M. Hansen (Golden Gate Lodge No. 30).................................... 10.00
Frank M. Hardesty (Golden Gate Lodge No. 30)............................ 5.00
Pietro Mela (Valley de France Lodge No. 329).................................. 5.00
William Mooser ............................................................................................ 10.00
F. J. Breckenridge (Hollywood No. 355).............................................. 1.00
Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Waters...................................................................... · 5.00
Mrs. Bertha E. Taylor................................................................................ 2.00
H. G. Burroughs (Coalinga, California).............................................. 20.00
Miguelita Circle, Auxiliary 0. E. S., Lompoc.............. :..................... 5.00
Lewis Chamberlain ........................................................................................ 100.00
Mario Montelchini ........................................................................................ 5.00
632 Masonic Club, San Diego.................................................................... 5.00
Fred J. Martin ............................................ -.................................................. 1.00
San Gabriel Masonic Club........................................................................ 5.00

Following is a complete list of residents of the Decato Home, the
date of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number of the
Lodges nominating them and the location of such Lodges, complete to
August 31, 1930.
MEN, 155. Average Age, 77.
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Alderman, Alfred H. ........ Oct. 6, '26
Corinthian .......... 9
Anderson, Alfred ..............June 1, '20
Gravel Range ...... 59
Ansley, James G....:........ Feb. 28,'26 Jonathan ..............545
Armantage, Wm. L ......... Apr.19, '22 San Bernardino.. 348
Anderson, Julius .............. Aug. 19, '30 King Solomon's ..260
Bader, Henry .................. Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon's ..260
Bailey, Wm. ] ................. Dec. 25, '28
Callayomi ............282
Bane, John Loraine ........ Nov. 13, '29
Rockridge ............468
Barker, Harry W ......'. ...... July 23, '28
San Pedro ............ 332
Barker, Thos. E ............. Sept. 13, '27 Amity .................... 370
Barnes, Albert .................. May 7, '28
Hawaiian ............ 21
Barnes, Joshua D .............}une 10, '28
Golden Gate .......... 30
Barnhisel, Chas. F ........... Dec. 2, '28 Brooklyn ..............225
Easker, Solomon ............ Sept. 30, '29
Mount Moriah .... 44
'Beck, Herman H ............. Aug. 28, '24
Nicolaus ..............129
Berge, Carl T. E ............. Sept. 30, '26 · West Gate............ 335
Bernstein, Jacob A ...........June 26, '24
Berkeley .............. 363
Best, Willard A ............... July 12, '21
Consuelo ..............325
Blumenthal, Albert ............ Feb. 1, '30
Crockett .............. 139
Brown, John L ................. Sept. 11, '24 King Solomon's .. 260
Buckley, Peter.. ................ May 21, '19
Hawaiian ............ 21
Bull, Clint M ................... Aug. 11, '21
Moneta ............... .405
Burkett, Thos. R. ............ Aug. 22, '24
Woodbridge ........ 131
Burtchael, Geo. T ...........June 12, '26
Oakland ..............188
Bush, Elmer E ...........·......J an. 13, '30. Alturas ................298
Byrd, Thos. ] ...................Oct. 10, '25
Gravel Range ...... 59
Cambis, Emanuel .......... Mar.19, '23· Benicia.................. 5
Chase, Willis S ............... Mar. 19, '22
Turlock ................ 395
Clemenson, Newton E .....J une 2, '28
Marin ..................191
Clover, John A ................. Oct. 26, '29 Excelsior .............. 166
Collins, Nelson W ........... Sept. 12, '19
Calistoga ............. .233
Collister, Oscar ..............Jan. 19, '30 Vitruvius .............. 145
Corse, John M ................... Mar. 1, '22
Tuscan ..................261
Cowan, Wm. H ............... June 27, '28
Friendship ......... .210

Town
Age
Marysville ........68
Camptonville .... 79
San Francisco ..68
S. Bernardino.. 78
San Francisco ..86
San Francisco ..66
Middletown ....81
Oakland ...... '. ... 71
San Pedro ........ 53
San Francisco ..68
Honolulu ... .'......84
San Francisco ..80
Oakland ............ 91
San Francisco .. 68
Wheatland ...... 76
Los Angeles ...... 72
Berkeley .......... 76
Escondido ........82
San Francisco.. 76
San Francisco.. 76
Honolulu ..........83
Los Angeles ...... 53
Woodbridge ....81
Oakland ............ 76
Alturas ............68
Campton ville .... 96
Benicia ... :..........84
Turlock ............80
Marin ................ 73
San Francisco .. 81
Calistoga .........68
Bloomfield ........88
Williams ..........85
San Jose ............ 76

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Cowan, John S .................]an. 22, '28
Morgan Hill........463
Pacific .................. 136
Craig, David C.................Oct. 17, '27
Palmyra .............. 26
Creighton, Jam es S ......... Sept. l, '29
Valley .................. 135
Crill, Howard .................. Dec. 1, '28
Russian River ......181
Crossfield, Frank M ....... May 21, '27
So. California ......278
Dahl, Christian J .............Mar. 27, '29
Delzelle, Wm. R. ............June 31, '26
Excelsior ............ 166
Moneta ................405
De Penne, Frank L .....c.Mar. 19, '26
So. San Fran.......212
Dirks, John A. C........... Dec. 19, '29
Parnassus ............388
Dixon, Robt. R. ............... .]an. 9, '28
Brooklyn ..............225
Dodds, Thomas .............. Dec. 24, '28
York ....................423
Dowling, Geo. W ........... Mar. 15, '29
Hartley ................ 199
Drake, Oscar B ............... Dec. 18, '23
Corinthian .......... 9
Elder, Geo. W ................. Sept. 18, '28
Alhambra ............322
Ferrell, Wm. H ............... Oct. 21 1 '29
Vesper .................. 84
Fish, Chas. E..................... Apr. 2, '30
Herman ................ 127
Fink, Conrad .................... Aug. 23, '12
Landmark ........... .253
Fletcher, Edward ..........Mar. 29, '28
Franck, Isadore ....•.........Jan. 10, '16 La Parfaite Union 17
Elk Grove............173
Freeman, Isaac L .............May 17, '18
Phoenix .............. 178
Foltz, George .................. Aug. 7, '30
Carquinez ............337
Gordon, Luther D ............. Feb. 12, '28
Pacific ... ~ ..............136
Gough, Wm. G................. May 23, '25
Summit ..c... .......... 112
Griffin, Francis L...........June 28, '30
Guerra, John ..................Aug. 19, '24 Francis Drake..:...376
Berkeley .............. 363
Gibbs, John W ................. Aug. 5, '30
Naval .................... 87
Haupt, Oscar ..................June 28, '30
Crockett ..............139
Hatch, Richard .............. Apr. 26, '27
Sunset ..................352
Hardage, James M ......... Mar. 13, '17
Los Angeles........ 42
Harris, Louis ...:..............Jan. 13, '23
San Jose................ 10
Hazard, Emil J ............... Aug. 10, '25
Hesperian ............264
Hayden, John H ............. Sept. 20, '27
Downey ..............22.0
Harris, Ranse B ............. Mar. 26, '24
Higgins, Walter F ......... Mar. 15, '29 Fort Bragg............361
Summit ............... .112
Hocker, Jos. Lee............Sept. 5, '26
Holmes, Chas. T .............]une 16, '30 . Mount Diablo......448
Santa Cruz.......... 38
Hotchkiss, Marshall E ...June 11, '30
San Joaquin.......... 19
Hubbard, Ferdinand........ Mar. 8, '28
Forbestown ........ 50
Hurpphreys, Thos............. Mar. 9, '30
Van Ntiys ........... .450
Hathaway, John S ........... Aug. 7, '30
Marin .....c............ 191
Jacobs, Francis J ............. Feb. 16, '23
Dinuba ................385
Johnson, Daniel F ........... Sept. 16, '29

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFOR N IA

Town
Age
Morgan Hill....76
San Francisco..70
Placerville ......79
Linden ..............69
Windsor ..........80
Los Angeles......65
San Francisco.. 71
Los Angeles...... 56
So. San Fran...75
San Francisco..67
Oakland ............80
Watts ............... .73
Lakeport ..........77
Marysville ........79
Alhambra ....~...69
Red BlufL.......78
San Francisco..91
Esparto · .......:....86
San Francisco..82
Elk Grove........71
S. Bernardino..64
Crockett .......... 75
San Francisco..71
Knights Ferry..70
So. San Fran... 77
Berkeley ..........70
Vallejo ............67
San Francisco.. 78
Los Angeles......89
Los Angeles ......54
San J ose............ t56
Santa Maria....93
Downey ............78
Fort Bragg......68
Knights Ferry..85
Concord ............72
Santa Cruz........67
Stockton ..........73
Forbestown ....93
Van N uys ..........85
San Rafael........83
Dinuba ............. 79

rI.

12!

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Toum
Age
Journal, Philip S ............. Mar. 6, '27
Sequoia ................349
Oakland ..........79
Jensen, Alfred T .............May 22, '25
Palestine ..............351 Los Angeles......67
Juhl, Thos. J ................... Mar. 18, '28
Mount Moriah.... 44
San Francisco..62
Kennedy, Daniel ............June 16, '29
H oward ................ 37 Y reka ................93
Kesner, James P ............. No'v. 14, '23
Nicolaus ..............129 W heatland ........85
Lee, Abraham .................. May 1, '30
P acific Grove......331
Pacific Grove....81
Lehmann, August H ....... Dec. 14, '28
Santa Monica......307
Santa Monica..71
Lund, Andrew J ............. Sept. 29, '27
San Joaquin .......... 19
Stockton ..........74
Lockwood, Tom................Feb. 13, '28
P acific .................. 136
San Francisco..78
Logomarsino, G............... May 12, '22
Speranza Italiana219
San Francisco..74
Macdonald, Samuel... ..... Aug. 22, '24 Fullerton ..............339
F ullerton ..........80
Matson, Martin B........... Dec. 15, '27
Eden ....................113
San , Leandro....73
Maxwell, John .............. Nov. 28, '29
H ollywood............355
Hollywood ......67
Martin, Benj . R. .............. May 15, '24 . Santa Cruz............ 38
Santa Cruz ........65
Matti!)gly, J ohn A ...... ~ ... Oct. 1, '24
Fresno ..................247
Fresno :.............78
MacMurdo, Wirt R. ...... Feb. 23, '25
Bakersfield ..........224
Bakersfield ......78
Mensch, Wm. A ............... June 17, '27
H ollywood............355
Hollywood ......81
Merrill, Chas. H ............. July 29, '30
East Gate..............290 Los Angeles......69
Mesler, Orlando A ....... ,.Apr. 5, '27 Olive Branch ........269
Tulare ..............79
Meuser, Alfonso .............. Sept. 19, '26
Palo Alto............346
Palo Alto ..........76
Miller, John W ...............Jan. 22, '30
El Dorado............ 26
Placerville ......84
Miller, Samuel C. .......... May 16, '29
Mount Diablo......448
Concord ............84
Morrison, Geo. D ........... Mar. 20, '30
Golden State........358
Los Angeles......66
Molera, Jos. R. ................ Ma·r. 1, '30
La Parfaite Union 17 San Francisco..63
Murden, Robt. J ............. Mar. 26, '28
Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ............64
Miller, Geo. N ............... Apr. 30, '30 Selma ....................277
Selma ................74
McDonald, Frank. ........... Nov. 21, '26
South Gate............320 Los Angeles......76
Nannestad, Henrik.......... Mar. 8, '23
Doric ....................216
San Francisco..84
Nelson, Paul .................. Nov. 22, '26
Callayomi ............282
Middleton ........80
Newman, Adolph ........... .June 4, '29
Antioch ............... .175
Antioch ............86
Newell, Eban P ................. Oct. 6, '27
Occidental ............ 22
San Francisco.. 74
Nicholaus, Nahum..........Mar. 18, '28
Speranza Italiana219
San F rancisco..74
North, Edwin B. .............. Apr. 2, '29
Vesper .................. 84
Red Bluff..........73
Otto, Fred A ................... Feb. 23, '30
Lassen ...............:..149
Susanville ........64
Owen, Wm. L ...................Aug. 12, '22
Mission ................169
San Francisco.. 71
Plowman, Alfred R. ......]an. 17, '30
Consuelo ..............325
Escondido ........77
Potter, Loyal A ............... Jan. 21, '30 Union .................... 58 Sacramento ......71
P rice, Thos. G.................... Oct. 12, '25
Orosi ....................383
Orosi ................81
Righetti, Robt. ................ Mar. 9, ' 18
Pentalpha ............ 202 Los Angeles...... 78
Risher, Chas. B............... Aug. 24, '29
Redlands .............. 300
Redlands ..........66
Roberts, Jos. L ...............Jan. 28, '25 Por terville ............303
P orterville ......81
R'obinson, James M .........Jan. 21, '28
La Mesa................407 La Mesa............83
Robinson, Henry J ......... Nov. 8, '23
East Gate............. 290 Los Angeles......80

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
San Francisco..70
Herman
...............
.127
Rolfe, Earnest.................. Oct. 17, '23
South W est .........283 N ational City....88
Rowland, Neils P ............. Feb. 25, '28
California ............ 1 San Francisco..77
Ryan, Michael ..c..••.......•.Jan. 26, '28
San Francisco..64
Bethlehem ............453
Sawvell, Charles ............Aug. 30, '30
Mendocino ......77
~
....
179
Mendocino
.....
Severance, Frank B ....... May 29, '28
Oakland ............70
Oakland
...............
.188
Smith, Wm. C. ................Apr. 25, '28
Athens ..................228 Davis ................80
Smith, Hiram H .............J une 20, '29
Middleton ........70
Callayomi ...........282
Smith, Roland A .............Jan. 29, '27
San Francisco..76
Oriental ................144
Smith, Harry B ...............June 30, '28
Mt. View ..........75
Mountain
View
...
.194
Smith, Robert ..........,.......Apr. 4, '27
Long Beach......57
Long Beach ..........327
Smith, Geo. Lewis..........May 22, '29
Sisson ..............70
Sisson ..................310
Sollner, John B ............... Feb. 14, '30
Alameda ..........72
Oak
Grove
...........
.215
Starkweather, Haynes... .] uly 28, '27
Marysville ......66
Corinthian .......... 9
Starkweather, Reuben ....May 28, '29
Oakland ............63
Oak.
.............
61
Live
Standeford, Wm. B ....... Nov. 12, '29
Sacramento
......76
Sacramento .......... 40
Stephenson, Wm. A .......]an. 14, '29
Sacramento ......70
Union
....................
58
Stevens, Fred A ...............Oct. 4, 'ZS
Brentwood ......78
Brentwood ..........345
Stone, Harry ....................Juiy 2, '26
Mendocino ......77
Mendocino
..........
179
Stone, Walter M .............]une9, '26
Apollo ..................386 _Alameda ..........82
Swaffield, Thos. W ......~.... Feb. 4, '29
Redding ............75
Reading ................254
Swedberg, Eric................Oct. 19, '29
San -F rancisco..68
Excelsior
...........
.166
Taylor, Geo. McC ...........July 14, '25
San Diego........86
San
Diego
............
35
Thurman, John ................Oct. 26, '21
Fairfax ............74
Fairfax
................
556
Tillinghast, Jos. H ......... Aug. 14, '28
Oakland ............79
Live
Oak.
.............
61
T renchel, August F .......Sept. 18, '25
U kiah ..............73
Abell ....................146
Viles, Charleston H .........Oct. 24, '29
Roseville ..........79
Roseville ..............222
Walker, Samuel O .......... .]une 1, '28
Palo Alto ......... .79
Palo
Alto
..............
346
Walker, Chas. C. ............Jan. 21, '30
Covina ..............81
Covina ..................334
Warner, William ............ Mar. 31 , '23
Long Beach......78
Long Beach ..........327
Watson, Matthew P ....... May 16, '25
Willows ............71
l
.amcl
..................
245
Waugh, Oscar ................Feb. 18, '30
San Francisco..76
La
Parfaite
Union
17
Wilhelm, Frederic G.......Oct. 25, '27
San Diego........7:1
W.
Hackett
....
574
S.
Wigginton, James W .....July 15,'29
Petaluma ..........69
Petaluma
............
180
Willard, T hos . ................ Aug. 23, '27
Pomona ............74
Pomona
..............
246
Wildman, W illiam............Oct. 6, '19
Los Angeles......68
Un
iversity
..........
394
Yarrington, James T .....Feb. 26, '29
Alameda ..........80
Oak Grove ............215
Young, Lars G..:................Apr. 1, '23

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'/

13

WOME N, 144. Average Age, 73.8

Name
Admitted
Alexander, Ida E ..........Jan. 13, '30
Anderson, Mary J ...........Aug. 12, '28
Armantage, Theresa A. ....Jan. 5, '19
Artz, Mary Ann .............. Oct. 27, '26
Bane, Florence A ...........Nov.13, '29
Burmingham, Isabel........ May 19, '29
Blinn, Sophia W ... .'.........Jan. 20, '30
Bradley, Nannie ................Apr. 30, '25
Boyd, Isabelle L ............. May 25, '25
Bernstein, Cordelia.......... June 26, '24
Burtchael, Gertrude........June 12, '26
Brown, Rosalin V ...........Mar. 27, '24
Bemis, Ellen J ...........- ....June 26,'29
Berge, Lilly B. ................ Sept. 30, '26
Beebe, Annie L .................Mar. 1, '28
Barnes, Sallie B ...............May 7, '28
Bidgood, Laura P .............Jan. 15, '28
Bryant, Rachel... ............... Aug. 2, '23
Blumenthal, Elizabeth......July 6, '27
Brassfield, Maggie E. ....Feb. 11, '28
Bates, Ellen F .................Nov. 17, '28
Rell, Augusta R...............Apr. 21, '29
Brown, Mary L ................. Oct. 7, '28
Carlson, Laura L .............Feb. 10, '20
Carpenter, Tillie C.........May 30, '30
· Cash, Anna ..........................July 7, '22
Cash, Mary E................... Oct. 25, '26
Cass, Mary E.....................July 7, '28
Clemenson, Nancy ]. ......June 21, '28
Cohn, Sarah ...................... Sept. 8, '22
Collister, Mary L .............Jan. 19, '30
Cosner, Lydia C. ................ May 3, '30
Cowley, Cerita J ............. Sept. 18, '25
Crawley, Nellie G...........Dec.19, '27
Crill, Flora A .....................Dec.1, '28
Cook, Becky L ................. Mar. 27, '30
Dahl, Alice W ............... Mar. 27, '29
Davis, Eliza A .................]uly 26, '17
Davis, Grace G...............July 25, '16
Dickson, Alice W .........June 11, '21

Lodge
No.
E l Centro............384
Vallejo ................ 87
Needles ................326
Foothill ................564
Rockridge ..........468
California ............ 1
T ruckee ................200
Oriental ................144
Mount Moriah.... 44
Berkeley .............. 363
Oakland ................188
Natoma ................ 64
Dinuba ..................385
W est Gate............335
Porterville ..........303
H awaiian ..........'.... 21
Elysian ................418
Golden Gate .......... 30
San Joaquin.......... 19
Santa Barbara......192
Dunsmuir ............297
San Francisco ......360
San Mateo............226
E xcelsior ..............166
King Solomon' s ...260
South Gate............320
San Jose................ 10
Sisson ..................310
Marin ....................191
Los Angeles.......... 42
V itruvius ............ 145
Colusa ..................240
Berkeley ..............363
W illits ..................365
Valley ..................135
Hollenbeck .......... 319
So. California......278
K eith ....................187
Naval .................... 87
Pacific .................. 136

. Tow11
Age
El Centro..........72
Vallejo ............75
Needles ............73
Oakland ............82
Oakland ............65
San Francisco..76
Truckee ..........70
San Francisco..62
San Francisco.. 74
Berkeley ..........71
Oakland ............59
Folsom City......75
Dinuba ..............80
Los Angeles......76
Porterville ...... 79
Honolulu ..........69
Los Angeles......80
San Francisco..83
Stockton ..........72
Santa Barbara ..76
Dunsmuir ........57
San Francisco..80
San Mateo ......79
San Francisco..67
San Francisco..67
Los Angeles......71
San Jose ............81
Mt. Shasta........74
San Rafael... .....73
Los Angeles......73
Bloomfield ........76
Colusa ..............80
Berkeley ..........74
Willits ..............70
Linden ..............63
Los Angeles ......74
Los Angeles......66
Gilroy ..............83
Vallejo ............ 76
San Francisco..70

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

T ow11
Age
L odge
N o.
Name
Admitted
San
Francisco
..69
............
388
Parnassus
Dougherty, Lucy H ......... Apr. 3, '26
York ....................423 Watts ................81
Dowling, Emily ..............Mar. 15, '29
Manteca ..........89
Tyrian ................. .439
Dryden, Sarah S .............Feb. 26, '26
Palmyra .............. 26 Placerville ........ 78
Dunton, Ada F .................Nov. 1, '25
Oroville ................ 103 0 roville ............83
Dunn, Annie C. ................June 22, '25
.
Corinthian
............ 9 Marysville ......71.
Elder, Ellena R. ..............Sep. 18, '28
Fraternity
............ 399 San Jose .........:..64
Elliott, Louise.................. Feb. 26, '30
Benicia
..................
5 Benicia ............70
Estey, Catherine A .........Apr. 20, '27
Whittier ..........76
Evans, Mary ]. ................ Dec. 28, '23 Whittier ................323
Porterville ......86
Porterville
:
.........
303
Farnsworth, Sybella ........ Sep. 22, '29
Los Angeles......90
Los Angeles ........ 42
Fanshawe, Mary E .........Oct. 22, '29
Crockett ..............139 San Francisco.. 53
Fortriede, Augusta ..........Apr. 24, '25
San Francisco..68
Felter, Eliza D .................July 24, '23 King Solomon's...260
Berkeley ........:.67
Berkeley
..............
363
Foster, Nellie G............. June 21, '30
Escondido ........81
Consuela
..............
325
Garland, Susan G......... Aug. 18, '25
San Francisco..81
Board
of
Relief...
.....
Gordon, Mary }...............July 13, '27
Crockett ..........56
337
Carquinez
............
Gordon, Isabel C. ............Feb. 12, '28
San Jose............57
San Jose .............. 10
Grant, Hattie H .................Feb. 6, '22
Los Angeles......66
Mizpah
................
378
Gregory, Ada M ............. Nov. 12, '26
Live Oak.............. 61 Oakland ............84
Hall, Maria A............'.'.... Aug. 22, '19
Marysville ......76
Corinthian
............ 9
Hammerly, Mary..............Jan. 8, '21
San Jose ............60
San Jose ................ 10
Hazard, Marie................ Aug. 10, '25
Fresno ..................247 Fresno ..............84
Heith, Catherine ..............Oct. 16, '10
Oakland
................188 Oakland ............73
Hibbard, Elizabeth ........ Mar. 22, '30
Fort
Bragg
............361 Fort Bragg......69
Higgins, Lillie W ........... Mar. 15, '29
Brooklyn
..............
225 Oakland ...........:67
Hill, Barbara M .............July 26, '27
Petaluma ..........80
Hinshaw, Ellen .................. June 1, '30 Petaluma .............. 180
Berkeley ..........85
Thousand
Oaks
...
.478
Hipkins, Sue B ............... Mar. 16, '30
Santa Rosa ........81 •
Hodgson, Mary A ........... Apr. 19, '29 Santa Rosa ............ 57
Stockton ..........72
San
Joaquin
..........
19
Hubbard, Carrie !........... Mar. 8, '28
Mt. View.......... 76
Humaston, Isaphene........ Sep. 11, '24 Mountain View....194
Inglewood ........61
629
Fairview
..............
Huisman, Charlotte........Jan. 19, '29
So. San Fran...68
So.
San
Fran
......
.212
Johnson; Hattie E ...........July 25, '30
Lompoc ............71
:.262
Lompoc
..............
Jackson, May R. .............. Aug. 27, '25
San Rafael... .....71
Marin ..................191
Jacobs, Martha E .............Feb. 24, '25
Los Angeles......78
Los
Angeles..........
42
Jeffries, Viola H ............. Nov. 8, '23
San Jose ............67
San
Jose
................
10
Kalfus, Sarah W .............Jan. 29, '19
San Francisco......360 San Francisco..65
Kimball, Camelia L ....... Sept. 19, '26
Pacific Grove....72
Lee, Alice L ....................... May 1, '30 Pacific Grove........331
Oroville ..........77
Oroville
................
103
Leonard, Lois ..................June 7, '30
San Pedro ......60
San
Pedro
............
332
Langworthy, Martha E ...July 23, '26
Richmond ........82
374
McKinley
............
Lane, Laura M ...................Oct. 2, '26
Sincerity .............. 132 Greenville ........i9
Laufman, Anna .............. Aug. 27, '24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Lawrence, Lucy ? ........... Nov.21, '16
Lightner, Sarah ]. ............Oct. 9, '28
Linder, Elvina B............... May 1, ' 18
Lunt, Annie M ................. Mar. 4, '28
MacDuffie, Dorothy ..........Mar. 7, '30
Matthews, Louise L ......... Aug. 7, '22
Mast, Francis C .............. Aug. 31, '12
McKinnon, Mary A ....... Dec. 31, '01
McGuire. Mary................July 14, '26
Meyer, Mary....................Apr. 13, '28
Mills, Kate D ................... Mar. 21, '28
Mitchell, Eliza .................. Nov. 3, '29
Morrison, Louisa B....... Mar. 20, '30
Newman, Susanna............ June 4, '29
Newlon, Sarah E .............Oct. 28, '27
Nielson, Mary V ............. Nov. 21 , '27
Nourse, Florence A ......... Dec. 7, '26
Nutter, Martha L ........... Mar. 25, '23
Nyhuis, Marie H ............ Mar. 21, '25
Orman, Ella } .................June 21 , '25
Pankow, Catherine .......... Apr. 29, '29
Peck, Sarah A ...................Nov. 4, '25
Peck, Cassie M .................Jan. 18, '28
Percival, Hannah D ........ Dec. 29, '29
Perry, Mary C .................May 12, '30
Peters, Levonne .............. Feb. 12, '29
Philip, Margaret F ......... Feb. 25, '30
Plummer, Francis E ....... Sept. 21, '28
Pohlman, Mary ................July 15, '21
Procto'r, Caroline A ......... May 5, '30
Prall, Anna K. C. ............Feb. 5, ' 15
Rackerby. Elizabeth ........ Mar. 29, '30
Reid, Katherine .............. Sept. 11, '28
Richardson, Julia A. ...... Mar. 13, '16
Risdon, Imogene B ........... Feb. 3, '27
Risher, Louise E ............. Aug. 24, '29
Rogers, Leonora .................. Oct. 6, '25
Rowell, Jane...................... June 10, '22
Sawyer, Ella B............... Sept. 18, '13
Schroeder, Louise B .......Oct. 23, '27
Schwain, Mary :: .............. Jan. 22, '25
Smith, Georgina................June 9, '28

Lodge
No .
Board of Relief..
Starr King ............344
South Gate............320
Mission ................ 169
Foothill ................564
Yount .................... 12
Yosemite .............. 99
Morning Star........ 68
Alcatraz ................244
Acorn ..................494
Santa Cruz.......... 38
Fresno ..................247
·Golden Gate..........358
Antioch ................175
Highland Park. ... 382
Santa Cruz.......... 38
Natoma ................ 64
East Gate ............290
Naval .................. 87
Burlingame ....... .400
Crockett ..............139
Madera ................280
Henry Clay.......... 95
Liberty ..................299
Mendocino .......... 179
Oak Grove............215
Mission ................ 169
Bay View..............401
Porterville ..........303
Pajaro ......;........... 110
King Solomon's...260
Crockett .............. 139
Porterville ..........303
Live Oak. ............. 61
Consuelo .............. 325
Redlands ..............300
King David's........209
Golden Gate ......:... 30
Natoma ................ 64
Park ....................449
Bakersfield ......... .224
Sunset .................. 352

133
Town
Age
San Francisco..68
San Francisco..70
Los Angeles ......81
San Francisco..83
Oakland ............66
Napa ................ 75
Merced ............85
Stockton ..........82
Oakland ............76
Oakland ............76
Santa Cruz........70
Fresno ..............81
San Francisco.. 66
Antioch ............68
Los Angeles......80
Santa Cruz......69
Folsom City......75
Los Angeles ...... 75
Vallejo ............80
Burlingame ......81
San Francisco ..65
Madera ............72
Sutter Creek....82
Santa Clara ......87
Mendocino ......63
Alameda ..........72
Mission ............ 73
Oakland ............85
Porterville ......71
Pajaro ..............95
San Francisco ..71
San Francisco..72
Porterville ...... 76
Oakland ............80
Escondido ........ 77
Redlands ..........58
S. Luis Obispo..66
San Francisco..85
Folsom City......80
San Francisco..78
Bakersfield ......76
Los Angeles......81

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Town ·
Age
lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Los Angeles...... 73
East
Gate
..............
290
Stokes, Mary M ............... Feb. 16, '26
lone .................. 77
Surface, Emma................Aug. 19, '16 Ione ...................... 80
Alameda .............. 167 Alameda ..........78
Southwick, Marion E .....July 24, '30
San Mateo............226 San Mateo........88
Templeton, Phoebe.......... Aug. 30, '26
Yosemite .............. 99 Merced ............75
Terrill, Cynthia E ........... Sept. 15, '27
San Francisco..76
Thurling, Angeline..........Dec. 22, '26 · Argonaut ..............461
Bay View..............401 Oakland ............75
Tilley, Sadie G...................July 6, '27
Roseville ..............222 Roseville ..........72
Walker, Emma 0 .............June 1, '28
Oakland
................188 Oakland ............71
Walton, Ida M...............June 22, '25
Oroville
................103 Oroville ............68
Waterho~e, Flora E ..... Apr. 20, '29
Westlake
..............392 Los Angeles......73
Wehmer, Anna A ........... Aug. 31, '22
Mission
...............
.169 San Francisco..76
West, Eva W ..................... Aug. 9, '23
Santa
Rosa
............
57 Santa Rosa ........78
West, Henrietta B. ..........May 10, '30.
Kahulaui ..........62
Wilbur, Anna ....................Mar. 8, '30 Maui ......................272
Chico ................69
Chico
....................
111
Williams, Laura A .........Mar. 22,'25
San Francisco..68
Wilson, Edith......................Oct. 3, '28 California ............ 1
Tuolumne ........77
East
Belt
..............
391
Withers, Phoebe.............,June 13, '27
Mill Valley......84
Mill
Valley
..........
356
Wooten, Mary A .............Dec. 26, '26
Los Angeles......60
University
............
394
Yarrington, Grace M.....Feb. 26, '29
Outside Relief-Ad11/ts

Mo11thly
N ame
lodge
allowance
Date began
Geo. Hyde and wife ... :.......... Mill Valley No. 356..........$40.00
June, 1930
Dec., 1928 John J . Perry and wife.......... Western Star No. 2............ 40.00
May, 1929 ;:iilas A. Williams.................. F orbestown No. 50............ 30.00
Rebecca A. Sherwood............ Naval No. 87........................ 30.00
Jan., 1927
Frances M. Jack...................... Chico No. 111...................... 30.00
June, 1925
Mar., 1924 Geo. W . Forsythe.................. LaFayette No. 126.............. 30.00
May, 1929 Rebecca J. Hopkins................ Lassen No. 149.................... 30.00
Joan W. Smith..,..................... Oakland No. 188.................. 15.00
July, 1928
April, 1930 Frank F. Sibley............:......... Wilmington No. 198.......... 30.00
Feb., 1929 Adolph Isaac ............................ Durie No. 216....................- 30.00
July, 1928 Louis Wade Smith.................. Bakersfield No. 224............ 20.00
Oct., 1926 Rebecca E. High .....:................ Magnolia No. 242................ 30.00
Oct., 1925 Geo. W. Buchanan.................. Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
June, 1929 James A. Bowen ...................... Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
Feb., 1927 Cora Lee Bennett.................... So. California No. 278...... 30.00
Nov., 1929 Wm. Porter Marshall............ Maxwell No. 288................ 25.00
April, 1930 J . M. Ferguson and wife...... Silver Gate No. 296............ 50.00
July, 1927 Walter J. Smith...................... Sisson No. 310. ................... 40.00
Oct., 1929 John F. McBride...................... Sisson No. 310 .................... 30.00

Date began
Nov., 1923
June, 1929
Jan., 1928
June, 1929
Oct., 1925
Aug., 1925
Dec., 1929
Mar., 1929
Feb., 1930
Aug., 1929
Feb., 1930
Jan., 1930
Sept., 1926

135

M onthly
N amc
lodge
atlowance
Daniel R. Ballinger................ Needles No. 326.................. 30.00
H. Truitt..............;..................... Fruitvale No. 336.............. 30.00
John M. Keeley...11.••••• •• • ••••• • • • • • • Sequoia No. 349.................. 30.00
William T . Huff ...................... Ocean Park No. 369.......... 25.00
Nathaniel Black...................... Palos Verdes No. 389........ 30.00
James E. Adams ................,..... Perris No. 411...................... 30.00
John W. Moore and wife...... Exeter No. 424.................. 40.00
Geo. F. Geibel.....:...........·......... Fairmount No. 435............ 30.00
John H. Ogan.......................... Carpinteria No. 444............ 30.00
Harriet M. Sutton.................. Progressive No. 578.......... 30.00
Clara Scott................................ So. California No. 278...... 15.00
Geo. H. Aydelotte.................. East Gate No. 290.............. 25.00
Guv Fallai... ............................... Silver Gate No. 296.......... 30.00
Admitted d11ring the year, Men 41

Name
Admitted
Alexander, Wm. E ...........Jan. 13, '30
Anderson, Julius ............ Aug. 14, '30
Bane, John L ................... Nov. 13, '29
Basker, Solomon ............ Sept. 30, '29
Blinn, Wm. 0 ...................Jan. 20, '33
Bush, Elmer E.......:.........Jan. 13, '30
~lumenthal, Albert... .......Feb. 1, '30
lover, John A .................Oct. 26, '29
~oll.ister, Oscar................Jan. 19, '30
re1ghton, James S ......... Sept. 1, '29
Dirks, John A.................Dec. 19 '29
;ish, Chas. E ..................... Apr. 2'. '30
Foltz, George ..................Aug. 19, '30
Gerrell, WIT!.. H ............... Oct. 21, '29
Gibbs, John W ................. Aug. 5, '30
riffin, Francis L ...........June 27, '30
Hathaway, John S ...........Aug. 7, '30
Haupt, Oscar ..................June 28, '30
Hotchkiss, Marshal ...... June 11, '30
Holmes, Chas. T .............June 16, '30
Humphreys, Thos.............Mar. 9, 'JO
Johnson, Daniel.............. Sept. 16, '29
Lee Abraham ..................May 1, '30
Maxwell, John ................ Nov. 28, '29
Merrill, Chas. H .....,.......July 29, '30

lodge
N o.
El Centro ............384
King Solomon's...260
Rockridge ............468
Mount Moriah...... 44
Truckee ................200
Alturas ................248
Crockett ...,..........139
Excelsior .............. 166
Vitruvius ,.............145
Palmyra .............. 26
So. San Fran.......212
Vesper .................. 84
Phoenix ................178
Alhambra ............322
Berkeley ..............363
Summit ................112
Van Nuys ............450
Naval .................... 87
Santa Cruz............ 38
Mt. Diablo............448
Forbestown .......... 50
Dinuba ................385
Pacific Grove........331
Hollywood · ..........355
East Gate.............. 290

Location Age
El Centro.......... 76
San Francisco..86
Oakland ............71
San Francisco..68
Truckee ............75
Alturas ............68
San Francisco..76
San Francisco..81
Bloomfield ......88
Placerville ......79
So. San Fran.. 75
Red Bluff.......... 78
S. Bernardino..64
Alhambra ........69
Berkeley ..........70
Knights Ferry..70
Van Nuys ........85
Vallejo ..............67
Santa Cruz........67
Concord ............72
Forbestown ....93
Dinuba ..............79
Pacific Grove....81
Hollywood ......67
Los Angeles ......69

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Miller, John W ............... Jan. 22, '30
Miller, Geo. N ................. Apr. 30, '30
Morrison, Geo. D ........... Mar. 20, '30
Molera, Jos. R. ................ Mar. 1, '30
Otto, Fred A ..................... Feb. 23, '30
Percival, Freeman F ....... Dec. 29, '29
Pearse, Warren M ......... Mar. 23, '30
Potter, Loyal A ............... Jan. 21, '30
Plowman, Alfred
Sawvell ..........................Jan. 17, '30
Sollner, John B ............... Feb. 14, '30
Swedburg, Eric .............. Oct. 19, '29
Standeford, Wm. B ....... Nov. 12, '29
Viles, Chas. H ................. Oct. 24, '29
Waugh, Oscar .................. Feb. 18, '30
Walker, Chas. C.............Jan. 21, '30
Whittall, Thos. B ........... Sept. 26, '29

Lodge
No.
El Dorado ............ 26
Selma ................... .277
Golden State ........ 358
La Parfaite U ..... 17
Lassen .................. 149
. Liberty ............... .299
San Jose .............. 10
Union .................. 58

Location Age
Placerville ......84
Selma .............. 74
Los Angeles......66
San Francisco.. 63
Susanville ........ 64
Santa Clara ......93
San Jose .......... 69
Sacramento ......71

Consuelo .............. 325
Sisson ..................310
Reading ............... .254
Live Oak.............. 61
Abell .................... 146
Laurel ................. .245
Palo Alto ............ 346
Durant ..................268

Escondido ........ 77
Sisson .............. 70
Redding .......... 75
Oakland ............63
Ukiah ................ 73
Willows ..: ....... 71
Palo Alto.......... 79
Berkeley ..........84

Admitted During the year, Women 28
N a111e
Admitted
Alexander, Ida E ............. Jan. 13, '30
Bane, Florence A ........... Nov. 13, '29
Blinn, Sophia W ............. Jan. 20, '30
Carpenter, Tillie C. ...... May 30, '30
Collister, Mary L ...........Jan. 19, '30
Cook, Beckey L ............. Mar. 27, '30
Cosner, Lydia C. .............. May 31, '30
Elliott, Louise ................ Feb. 26, '30
Farnsworth, Sybella ...... Sept. 22, '29
Fanshawe, Mary E ......... Oct. 22, '29
Foster, Nellie G.........•...June 21, '30
Hibbard, Elizabeth ........ Mar. 22, '30
Hipkins, Sue B. .............. Mar. 16, '30
Hinshaw, Ellen .... c••••••••••••• June 1, '30
Johnson, Hattie .E .......... .]uly 25, '30
Lee, Alice L ....................... May 1, '30
Leonard, Lois ··"··············June 7, '30
MacDuffie, Dorothy ........ Mar. 7, '30
Mitchell, Eliza .............. ,.Nov. 3, '29
Morrison, Louise B ....... Mar. 20, '30
Percival, Hannah D ....... Dec. 29, '29

Lodge
No.
El Centro ............ 384
Rockridge ............ 468
Truckee ............... .200
King Solomon's ...260
Vitruvius .............. 145
Hollenbeck ..........319
Colusa ..................240
Fraternity ............399
Porterville .......... 303
Los Angeles .......... 42
Berkeley ..............363
Oakland ............. .188
Thousand Oaks ... .478
Petaluma .............. 180
So. San Fran ...... .212
Pacific Grove ........ 331
Oroville ................ 103
Foothill ................ 564
Fresno ..................247
Golden Gate ........ .-.358
Libetty .................. 299 .

137

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Location Age
El Centro .......... 72
Oakland ............65
Truckoe ............ 70
San Francisco .. 67
Bloomfield ...... 76
Los Angeles ...... 73
Colusa ..............80
San Jose ............64
Porterville ...... 86
Los Angeles ......90
Berkeley ..........67
Oakland ........... .73
Berkeley ..........85
Petaluma ..... ~ .... 80
So. ·San Fran... 68
Pacific Grove .... 72
Oroville ............ 77
Oakland ............65
Fresno ..............81
San Francisco .. 66
Santa Clara ......87

Name
Admitted
Perry, Mary C. .............. May 12, '30
Phillip, Margaret F ....... Feb. 25, '30
Proctor, Caroline A. ........ May 5, '30
Rackerby, Elizabeth ........ Mar. 29, '30
Southwick, Marian E .... .]uly 24, '30
West, Henrietta B ......... May 10, '30
Wilbur, Anna .................. Mar. 8, '30

Lodge
No.
Mendocino ......... .179
Mission ................ 169
Pajaro ..................110
Crockett .............. 139
· Alameda ............. .167
Santa Rosa ............ 57
Maui ....................472

Died during the year, 33. Average age, 77.7
Name
Age
Lodge
No.
Date
Alexander, Wm. E ....... 76 El Centro ............ 384 Feb. 6, '30
Berg, Gustave .............. 69 Golden Gate.......~ 30 Aug. 21, '30
Blinn, Wm. 0 ............... 75 Truckee ..............200 April 28, '30
Brown, Clement A .......85 Pentalpha ............202 June 4, '30
Buchanan, Isabel S ....... 76 Alcatraz ..............244 Feb. 10, '30
Buchanan, Alexander....82 Alcatraz ..............244 July 8, '30
Cass, Fred L ................... 72 Sisson ..................310 Oct. 20, '30
Conger, Martha A. ...... 84 Pasadena ............272 Nov. 24, '29
Charlesworth, Mary A. 77 Oxnard ................ 341 Jan. 28, '30
Daines, B. J ...................69 Georgetown ........ 25 Dec. 11, '29
Edwards, Edward S .....89 Nevada ................ 13 Oct. -, '29
Ferris, Crawford ........ 78 Doric ................. .216 July 15, '30
Fletcher, Edward ..........86 Landmark ......... .253 Aug. 6, '30
Gilliam, David T ......... 78 Mt. Jackson ....... .295 Oct. 19, '29
Hintze, Bertha ..............65 Tehama .............. 3 Nov. 20, '29
Johnson, Amanda ........89 Laurel ................245 Jan. 6, '30
Keys, John ....................89 Anahe.im ..............207 Oct. 4, '29
Lewis, Hiram J .............80 Sequoia ................349 Jan. S, '30
Lund, Hans P ............... 72 Live Oak .............. 61 June 12, '30
Olson, Peter S ...............83 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Sept. 21, '29
Penfield, Guy P .............64 Caledonia ............ 486 Jan. 1, '30
Percival, Freeman F .....93 Liberty ................299 Jan. 17, '30
Pankow, Herman ........73 Crockett ..............139 Aug. 2, '30
Pearse, Warren M .......69 San Jose .............. 10 Aug. 13, '30
Rohde, Anna ................ 72 King Solomon's ..260 July 6, '30
Shaw, Thos. W ............. 82 Los Angeles ........ 42 Sept. 4, '29
Studley, Frank E ......... 66 Reedley .............. 304 Feb. 17, '30
Walsh, William ..........73 Concord ............. .117 Sept. 10, '29
Woods, Robt. B ................83 Woodbridge ....... .131 Sept. 16, '29
Wallace, Thos. W ......... 78 Pentalpha ............ 202 Sept. 23, '29
Woods, Robe.r t .............. 73 Mission ................ 169 Oct. 4, '29
Wilder, Marian C .........81 Hawaiian ............ 21 Jan. 9, '30
Whittall, Thos. D .........84 Durant ............... .268 July 1, '30

Location
Age
Mendocino ......63
San Francisco.. 73
Pajaro ..............95
San Francisco .. 72
Alameda .......... 78
Santa Rosa ...... 78
Kahulaui ..........62
Buried at
Decoto
Oakland
Maine
Los Angeles
Oakland
Oakland
Sacramento
Pasadena
San Lorenzo
Folsom
Nevada City
Decato
Woodland
Sebastopol
Oakland
Decoto
Anaheim
Santa Rosa
Mountain View
Santa Cruz
Bakersfield
San Mateo
San Francisco
Decoto
San Francisco
Decato
Decato
Decoto
Lodi
Decoto
Decoto
Oakland
Oakland

Departures during the year, 2
Name
Age
Date
Lodge
No.
Black, Mary E .....................60
Aug. 18, '30 Oakland ............................... 188
Hartman, John ......................66
Aug. 18, '30 Le Progres de l 'Oceanie ....371

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Superintendent, Covina
To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes:
You are already familiar through monthly written reports from
this office, with many of the details which go to make up the sum
total of a year's achievement in caring for and training 180 boys
and girls whose lives have been entrusted to our keeping.
A recent classification of the children under our charge shows
the following:
Percentage of children having both parents dead ............ 13.4
Percentage of children having one parent dead ................ 79.3
Percentage of children having both parents living ............ 7.2
The 79.3% having one parent dead is made up as follows:
Father dead ................................ 54.7%
Mother dead ........................... ,....24.5%
In the 7.2% having both parents living, in practically every
case one parent is totally disabled and therefore unable to contribute
toward the child's maintenance.
D~ring the past year, through the employment ofa field worker,
we have been able to keep in touch with the families of the children
in our care, and in a number of instances have been able to place
the children back with their own relatives. There is a tendency,
once a child is placed in the Home, to leave it chere indefinitely,
regardless of changed conditions which would justify its ret1;1rn to its
family. Whe~ ;uch conditions exist, .it has been our eff?rt to ?is- ·
cover them and bring them to your attention for appropriate act1,on.
Our experien~e :. convincingly indicates that it is demoralizing to a
parent for the fraternity t'o continu_e to care for a child after that
l?a.rent,' throu~h improved. economic. conditions, has become ab_le_ to
resume 'responsibility.
There i~ a~other · class of cases in whi~h the parent, though
.unable tb rec~ive the child back home, is enabled through our caring
for the child to improve his qr her financial conditio~ to the extent
that some montl.~y payment toward the child's maintenance may
justly be expecte<i. It is a poor parent who is not willing to pay
what he can in the behalf of his child.
I.o s'o me instances we have been able to place the child back
under its mother's care, the Home allotting a small sum monthly
toward its maintenance there. Where the mother is well qualified
persqnally to care for .her child, poverty alone is not sufficien~ reason
for separating them. 3.5% of the children under our care are now
with their own mothers, we maintaining supervision.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

139

We have also placed a small percentage of our children (4.6%)
in foster homes, where we pay for their maintenance, and give them
superv1s1on. Some of these are older children, who need to be in
Los Angeles to receive vocational training to prepare them to earn
their own living; others are younger children who present special
problems of disposition, which render them unfitted for life in the
large group in the Covina Home.
The age distribution of our children, July 1st, was as follows:
Age
%
Age
%
11 ............................ 7.2
4 ............................ 1.1
5 ............................ 2.2
12 ............................ 8.9
13 ............................ 10.6
6 ............................ 3.4
7 ............................ 3.9
14 ............................ 15.1
15. ............................ 11. 7
8 ............................ 7.8
9 ............................ 5.6
16 ............................ 7.2
10 ............................ 9.6
17 ............................ 5.0
From this it will be noted that 39% of our children are fourteen
years old or older.
The general progress and development of the children during
the year has been most satisfactory. Thirteen boys and girls were
graduated from the Covina High School; and one boy was graduated
from the Frank Wiggins Trade School in Los Angeles. · All of
these have been assisted in working out their plans for the future.
Some have entered directly into gainful employment, while others
will take further vocational training, assisted in some cases by
allot~ents from Masonic Scholarship Fund. The plans of these boys
and girls are indicated in the following summary:
One boy talented in art, has entered an art school in San Francisco, working part time to help maintain ,himself.
. One boy will enter Whittier College, receiving $300.00 aid; and
working for the balance of his expenses.
Two boys have entered employment in Los Angeles.
"T wo gi~ls will enter college, preparing to teach, each receiving
$400.00 h'elp.
.
.
One girl has entered busfoess college, being maintained by
relatives.
Three girls will enter business college, receiving $300.00 help
each, and earning the balance of their expenses.
One girl is working in a family, and will attend business college
later.
One girl has entered a teachers' college, maintained in part· by
relatives and in part by her lodge.

141

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LOD GE OF CALIFORNIA

One girl expects to take training as a dentist's assistant.
One girl has secured a position in a business office.
The system of training the older children in the use of money,
by giving them opportunities for earning within the Home and
requiring them to buy their own clothes, etc., has been continued,
with excellent results. We find this a valuable aid in teaching one
of life's great practical lessons.-the value of a dollar.
The physical plant of the Home has been maintained in excellent
physical condition. The twenty-one buildings comprising Camp
Tucker at Balboa, where the children spend the summer months,
have been painted, re-roofed and repaired. At Covina the most noteworthy improvement is the construction of a swimming pool, made
possible through a bequest from Mrs . Almina Runyon. The pool is
30 x 60 feet in size, is finished in tile, and equipped with devices
for filtering and purifying the water, so as to comply fully with the
requirements of the California State Board of Health. Its location
and the landscape gardening surrounding it, are such as to make it
a pleasing ornament to the grounds. This pool fills a long-felt want
on the part of the children, and will afford healthful recreation during
many months of the year.
In all that we do the governing aim is to make the institution
at Covina a real home for the children, wherein they can live happy
lives and develop qualities of · character that will enable them to
succeed in later life.
In 1929 we graduated a girl, the oldest of a family of four
children, who may here be called Katie. She made a splendid record
and is now in college. In 1930 we graduated her sister Martha.
The third is Jack, a boy of fifteen, now in his second year of high
school. Then there is Alice, now twelve, and still in grammar school.
We quote from a letter which Jack wrote to Martha when she
graduated and left the Home:
"Dear Sister Martha: I sure have been bawled out a lot
by you, but guess I deserved it. Anyway, Marth, I'll try to be a
good boy, because I wouldn't want to spoil such ·a famous
reputation that you and Katie have made for yourselves at
Covina and the Home. I'll try and help Alice, like you and
Katie have helped me, even though . I get mad at her every once
in a while, but I guess I was that way when I was her age.
Don't forget all ·the swell times we have had at the Home with
all the kids. Love from your brother, Jack."
·
In this boy's unstudied words is pictured in some degree the
life of one family in the Home during the last five years-the preservation of a strong sense of family life within the Home, the boy's

pride in the family record, his feeling of responsibility for his younger
sister, his inspiration for achievement, and a suggestion of the good
times and happy life in the Home. Who can measure the value of
what has been done and is being done for this group of four fatherless children?
·
A little girl, twelve years old, ~ecently wrote, for the Home's
weekly newsletter, the following .lines, which are interesting as
showing a child's conception of what is being done for the children
at Covina :

140

''How the Masons established the Masonic Home
I will tell you in this little poem.
A group of men who Joyed girls and boys
Realized that some had no childish joys.
So being Masons they called on their brothers
And told them to assemble all of the others.
They made up a plan, these kind-hearted men,
That was all for us children from beginning to end.
They planned several houses and built them of brick
Taking extra precautions that the foundat!ons were thick.
Each building was furnished wit\1 the greatest of care
From bedding and dressers to fine silverware.
All over California was spread the Home's name
And along with that its very great fame.
Then into this Home the children did flock,
Some came with one shoe, and some with one sock.
They were well taken care of in this beautiful home,
Found plenty of pleasure and cared not to roam.
Though many happy years have now passed away
Yet still they add to our comfort and play, ·
Till this year we have a new swimming pool
In which on hot days we can quickly get cool.
And we thank the Masons who love girls and boys
That planned for our health and comfort and joys."
]oHN M. DowNEN, Superintendent.

142

l'ROUlllEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LO DGE OF CALIFORNIA

14!l

Visitations
September, 1929 :
22-Corona Lodge No. 324, visited the Home and gave program.
29-Majestic Chapter No. 480, 0. R. S., visited the Home.
( h-tober, 1929 :
5-6-Board of Trustees met at the Home.
10-Grand Lodge visited the0 Home.
20-Searchlight Lodge No. 567, visited the Home.
November, 1929:
10-Signal Lodge No. 543, visited the Home.
1~-Glen Eyrie Social Club of Glendale, visited the Home.
24-Florence Lodge No. 649, visited the Home. Had their
lunch on grounds.
24-Nazareth Shrine Mo. 8 of Long Beach, visited the Home.
24-Fairview Lodge No. 629, visited the Home.
December, 1929:
8-Beacon of the We~t Lodge No. 628 and Beacon Ray Chapter No. 495, 0. E. S., visited the Home.
15-Pacific Shrine No. 23, Order of the White Shrine, Ocean
Park, Calif., visited the Home and brought a moving picture.
15-Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506, visited the Home. Brought
program.
January, 1930:
19-Ramona Star Chapter No. 367, visited the Home.
February, 1930 :
, 8-9-Board of Trustees met at the Home.
23-Glendale Chapter N o. 422, 0. E . S., visited the Home.
March, 1930:
30-Service Chapter No. 414, 0 . E. S., visited the Home.
April, 1930 :
8-Queen Esther Auxiliary of Lankershim Chapter No. 403,
0. E . S. Twenty ladies visited the Home and sewed for
the children.
13-Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422, visited the Home.
25-Star Club of Garden Groves, Star Light Club of Hulj.tington
Beach, Scepter Social Circle of Orange, visited the Home.
27-West Adams Chapter N o. 411, 0. E. S., and Bettina Chapter
No. 399, O. E. S., visited the Home.
May, 1930:
2--Monrovia Chapter No. 227, 0. E . S., visited the Home.
11-Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, visited the Home.
25-Fairview Lodge No. 629 and Inglewood Lodge. No. 421,
visited the Home.

H5

l'ROCEED INGS OE' THE

l.iltA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

May, 1930:
28-Long Beach Lodges (98th Masonic District), visited the
Home and furnished entertainment for the children.
June, 1930:
I-Arlington Chapter No. 418, 0. E. S., Bellflower Lodge No.
523, Bellflower Chapter No. 397, 0. E . S., visited the Home.
8-Ascot Lodge No. 538, visited the Home.
8-Alexander Graham Bell Lodft"e No. 595, visited the Home.

May, 1930 :
18-The seven lodges comprising the 98th Maso nic District
united in a visitation to the Home, which turned out to be
quite the largest visita tion since the visit of the Grand
Lodge. There were in all about 600 visitor s present. The
visitors brought with them their Sciots band, also a drill
team and a group of singers. They also had a baseball
team which played against the boys of the H ome. Trustee
Samuel E. Burke was pr esent and made one of his stirring
talks to the assem bled visitors.

144

Entertainment
September, 1929 :
22-Corona Lodge No. 324, entertained children with program.
llecember, 1929:
15-Pacific Shrine No. 23, Ord.er of the White Shrine, furnished
moving pictures.
15-Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506, furnished a program.
18-The Goodyear Rubber Co's Activities Club, furni shed entertainment for the children. It coiisisted of a minstrel show
and orchestra, together with several excellent vaudeville
acts, well chosen and suitable for the occasion, and ending
with a short dance.
·
20-The annual entertainment by Monrovia Lodge No. 308. At
6:30 P . M., automobiles from Monrovia called at the Home
and carried all the children to the Lyric Theater in Monrovia. Following that performance they were taken to the
Monrovia Temple, where a Christmas tree was set up in
the lodge room from which a Santa Claus distributed gifts
to all the children. After this refreshments were served in
the banquet room.
23-The Christmas tree with gifts for all the children was furnished by the Masters' and Wardens' Association again this
year. Monte Blue was Santa Claus. After the tree all ad~
journed to the dining room where ice cream and cake were
served.
February, 1930:
8-Miss Virginia Slaughter entertained the children with a program of athletic dancing.
10-Dr. C. M. Thomas, San Jose, Cal., gave a lecture on Mexico.
April, 1930:
27-The Orpheus String Quintet, of Long Beach, treated the
children to a very pleasing concert.
May, 1930:
2-Mr. A. Nielen, Cincinatti, Ohio, entertained. "Trip Around
the World" pictures consisting of 200 hand colored lantern
slides.

June. 1930:
8-Ascot Lodge No. 538, visited the H ome. H ad a ball game
.
•
wi th the Home boys; races and other spor ts with prizes.
Served ice cream cones.
August, 1930 :
19-Ray G. Burlingame, Ma nager Ri tz Theater, Balboa, entertained the children at theater.
E very Saturday evening during the year, moving picture fi lm s
have been furn ished by members of the Los Angeles Film Exchange
Board of Trade, through arrangements made by the Los Angeles
Masters' a nd Wardens' Association.
Donations to Covina Home
Aletha Chapter No. 36, Berkeley, Calif.-21 night gown s, 2 small
spreads, 3 linen table runners, 1 linen square.
Anderson, F. C., Traver Lodge No. 294-25 lbs. prunes.
Appleton, Mrs. W. E.-10 scrap books.
Arlington Chapter, 0 . E. S. No. 418-11 quarts, 2~ pin ts, jams and
jellies.
Armagost, Chas. A., Hillyar.d Lodge No. 133, Spokane, Wash.-10
qts. canned tomatoes, 92 qts. canned fruit, 4 pts. jam, 8 glasses
jelly.
Asbury Transportation Company, 4908 So. Alameda, L os Angeles2 doz. qt. cans tomato paste for seasoning.
Ascot Lodge No. 538-Ice cream, 3 bed spreads, drapes and curtains for room furni shed by A scot L odge.
Bacon, E. ].-T reat, 50 cents.
Bakersfield Co urt of Amaran th-6 comforts
Balcolm, H. P ., Santa Paula-20 lbs. walnuts.
Bander, Mr. and Mrs. C. S., San Pedro Lodge No. 332-2 dolls, 1
doll" 'trunk and clothing, 1 toy truck.
Barker B~othcrs, 'Leis Angeles-Box of samples.

147

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND. LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Beacon of the West Lodge No. 628-$30.00, 1 qt. 9 lbs. jam, 6 glasses
jelly, 2 lbs: raisins, 7 lbs. dates, 8 lbs. Christmas candy, 7Y, lbs.
apples, 1 lb,. peanuts, 4 games and 2 books.
Belflour, Mrs. A. A.-Canvas for sun house.
Bellflower Lodge No. 523-Treat, $10.00.
Bellflower Chapter No. 397, 0. E. S.-Treat, $5.00.
Benevolence Lodge No. 631-18 chairs for club room in senior boys'
building.
Bethel No. 37 Order of Jobs Daughters-7 scrap books.
Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0. E. S.-3 comforts, 39 ,quarts jam and
jellies, 1 can milk, 2 pints pickles, 30 glasses jelly, 1Y, lbs.
Quaker Oats, 1 can Dutch Cleanser, 2 lbs. candy.
Beubler, George, University Lodge No. 394-50 lbs. Golden dates.
Beverly Hills Chapter No. 404, 0. E. S.-2 qts. fig preserves, 56
napkin holders.
Bingham; Bert-Treat, $50.00.
Bloemer, F. Wm., San Jose-74 pair corduroy pants and corduroy
remnants.
Boldetti, Luigi-$8.00.
Burton, T. F.-Treat, $1.00.
. Bush, Frank, Vallejo-3 rag dolls.
Chapman Ice Cream Company-Ice cream.
Chettick, William, Signal Lodge N~. 543:._Book, "We."
Christianson, Eugene, Covina-Ambulance service.
Clare, Ira A.-1 bushel apples . .
Coa.chella Lodge No. 478-3 b.o xes ( 50 lbs.) date~.
Colling, C. E., Rose's :Ba~ Lodge No. 89, S~artville - Ferns and
box of .laurel.
Corney, A .. A.-8 gallons ice cream.
Conklin, Chester, University Lodge No. 394-Sail boat.
Corinthian Chapter No, 51,· R. ·A. M.-Treat, $5.00.
Corona Lodge No. 324-27 qts. jam, 2 cans pineapple, Y,-gal. 40
glasses of jelly.
Coulston, Mrs. J. B.-26 qts. canned fruit, 4 pts. jam.
Cowen, Don. S., Los Angeles Lodge No. 42-1 vol. Britannica Encyclopedia.
Crow, Claude, Oroville-1 bucket olives.
Culver, Alexander, deceased, bequeathed his library, comprising approximately 1500 volumes, .together with 70 sectional bookcases,
one lot miscellaneous bookcases, 2 tables, 1 desk and one chair.

Cummings, V. E., Santa Paula-40 lbs. walnuts.
Cummings, Mrs. D. H.-Treat, $1.00.
Desert Star Club-$50.00.
Dolton, G. W., Torrance Lodge No. 447-25 lbs. candy.
Downs, Geo. A.--45 story books, toy wagon, 2 sacks miscellaneous
toys.
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422-7 qts. jams and jellies, 5 qts. canned
fruit, 70 sticks gum.
Fairview Lodge ' No. 629-15 lbs. mixed nuts, 25 lbs. apples, 60Y,
qts., 4 pts., 14 glasses jams anc! jellies, 2 qts. canned fruit, 15 oz.
plum pudding, 8 oz. macaroni, 1 lb. marshmallows, 1 lb. crackers, 1 chocolate cake, 5 lbs. fruit cake, 6;/, lbs. candy, 2 lbs. fig
newtons, 1 bottle grape juice, 18 story books, 9 pkgs. Jell-well.
Farley, Etta Belle-6 books poems "From the Garden of My
Thoughts."
Ferguson, Peter-o--Treat, $2.00.
Fillmore Chapter No. 361-100 qts. canned tomatoes.
Foreman & Clark-20 boys' suits.
Flack, Mrs. C. J.-44 dolls.
Fry, D. H., Pasadena-15 boxes oranges .
Fulkerson, R. V.-Box toys and clothes.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339 and Azure Lodge No. 533-Radio for Jr.
boys' building.
G, San Pedro~Special treat, $10.00.
Garden Grove Chapter No. 483, 0. E. · S.-1 dozen tea towels.
Gels trap, A. R., Traver Lodge No. 294_.o quarts ~anned toi:natoes.

146

Gerfin, William-:-6 lugs pears.
Gibson,' Hoot-$77.00.
Glen Eyrie Social Club-184 embroidered napkin h~lders, 2Y, qts.
canned fruit,' 10 qts. 10 pts'., 33 glasses jams and jellies.
Glen Chapter No. 357, 0. E. S.-7 indoor balls: 2 bats.
Glenn, Mr. and Mrs., Fairfield Popcorn Co., Balboa-138 Popcorn
balls.
Goldberg, Chas. B.--1 lug fresh fruit.
Goets, Carl M., Eagle Rock LodgC--Picture of Thomas Edison.
· Goldman, Herbert C., Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674-5 books, 100
crickets.
Grable, W. E.-3 large bundles maga~ines.
Granada Chapter No. 442, 0. E. S.-$10.00 for scholarship fund.

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Granada Lodge No. 608-International Cyclopedia, 2nd edition; 10
vols. "The Wonder World."
Gregory, Mr. and Mrs. G.-10 pts. jam.
Guenther, Charles, 4S lbs. mixed candy.
· Hanford Chapter 0. E. S.-12S lbs. raisins, lS lbs. w.alnuts.
Harband, I.-4 lugs pears, S lugs grapes.
Harper, R. B., Gardenia-4 "boxes Sc cream eggs, 4 boxes lOc cream
eggs (216 eggs).
Harvester Co. of Los Angeles (Ira Clare, H. E. Daniels, R. R.
Gasnel, T. R. Johnson, Norbet Tester, P. H. Pedersen, R. M.
Denbo, L. G. Denbo, J. E. Tell, B. Walker, Mr. Roberts, Pete
Felthousc) 2 boxes apples, 2 baskets apples.
Heffron, Mrs. B., Siloam Chapter No. 406-2 bot'tles jam.
Helms, Mr., Manager of Boulevard Express Co.--6 cartons Graham
crackers, 9 packages Snow Flake crackers, 24 lbs. macaroni.
Hennman, Armand-3 velocipedes.
Hickock,. Mrs. Arthur and 1-frs. Sidne'y-4 dozen glasses jelly, 2
qts. Jam, 3 lbs. peanut butter.
Hollywood Beauceaut No. 38-14 qts. canned fruit and jams, 22
glasses jelly, 2 gallons canned apricots.
Hollywood De Malay Chapter-4 vases.
Hollywood Shrine Club-2 table golf games.
Huff, Ralph E., Buena Park Lodge No. 3S7-SO lbs. peanuts.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380 and Seaside Chapter No. 2S9, O.
E. S.-$110.00 for use at Balboa.
Huntington Beach, Garden Groves and Orange Clubs-$4.16.
Huycke, Chas. S., Signal Lodge No. 543-6 lbs. raisins, 2 lbs. peanut butter, 2 lbs. mixed candy, I lb. cocoa, ·7 cans Campbell's
soup, 8 cans corn.
Inglewood Lodge No. 421-9 qts, 14 pts., 9 glasses jams and jellies.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145, 0. E. S.-75 lbs. homemade candy.
Johnson, C. W.-Scholarship fund, $50.00.
Joralemon, Mrs. Jack-12 night gowns for hospital.
Kingsbaker, Leonard-4 lugs peaches.
Lackey, Mrs. Nellie, San Gabriel Chapter, O. E. S.-Box magazines.
Los Angeles County Forestry Department-4 deer 3 forked horn
I spike buck.
'
'
Los Angeles Soap Co.-1 case White King soap $100.00, ·1 case
Mission Bell Soap $36.00.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

149

La Jolla Chapter No. 479, 0. E. S.-4 qts. canned fruit, 12 qts., 7
pts., 7 glasses jams and jellies, 3 lbs. rice, 2 lbs. pearl tapioca,
I lb. oats.
Laurel Lodge No. 245-Treat, $2S.OO.
Long Beach Lodges and :Sciots--,-99 qts., 16S pts., 133 glasse&. 18 tin
cans, canned fruit, jellies and jams, 2 lbs. prunes and nuts, I lb.
candy, 5 lbs. coffee, S lbs. cookies, 2 cakes, 3 large scrap books,
$8,21 treat fund.
Long Beach Lodge No. 227-Treat, $4.00.
Long Beach Pyramid No. 43, Sciots-27 S lbs. Easter candy. I Outboard Motor, Lockwood Ace.
Majestic Chapter No. 480,. 0. E. S.-200 sticks candy, 240 packages
chocolate coated raisins, 26 qts. canned fruit, 35 pts., 44 glasses
jams and jellies.
Manchester Chapter No. 449, 0. E. S.-15 lbs. candy.
Mand, Secy. Florence Lodge No. 649-2SO visors.
Marshall, C. E.-Treat, $1.00.
Marshall, H. L.-Treat, $1.00.
Marshall, Lee-Treat, $10.00.
Masonic members of Burlingame Rotary Cluh-$20.00.
Masters' and \Vardens' Association--80 qts. ice cream, 4 large cakes,
treat $40.00.
Miscellaneous treat $1.00.
Mitchell, Geo. H., Whittier Lodge No. 323-Treat, $5.00.
Mizpah Chapter No. 100, 0. E. S.-Treat, $10.00.
Modesto Bethel No. 42, Order of Job's Daughters-Large box filled
with small sacks of candy and nuts.
Monday Afternoon Star Club of Garden Grove, Star Light Club of
Hun61gton Beach, Scepter Social Circle of Orange--8 qts.
canned fruit, I qt. spiced fruit, S qts., 10 pts., 11 glasses jams
and jellies, cash $4.16.
Monrovia Chapter No. 227, 0. E. S.--8 qts., 6 pts., IS glasses jams
and jellies.
Moon, Mrs. Ella-13 glasses jelly.
Moore, Mrs. M. G.-Treat, $1.00.
Morris, E. C., Vallejo Lodge-2 books and magazines.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. S06-14 lbs. peanut butter, 14 qts., 89 pts.,
S6 glasses, 21 lbs. canned fruit, jellies and jams, 9 dozen homemade cookies, 27') lbs. candy.
MacLafferty, Mrs. Clarrie A.-Sunclay School papers.

151

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

McLauchlan, John-Treat, $S.OO.
McLeod, Walter L.-$S.OO.
Nazareth Shrine No. 8 of Long Beach-1 box apples, 47 qts. canned
fruit, 28 qts., 18 pts., 46 glasses, jams and jellies, 1 box toys.
Newton, Mrs. E. W., Arlington Chapter No. 418, 0. E. S.-8 dresser
scarfs.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-1 .keg olives.
Pacific White Shrine No. 23-30 cans, 10 qts., canned fruit, jams
and jellies, 15 cans soup, 3 packages Jell-well, 1 can sardines,
7 glasses jelly, 1 bottle chili sauce, 5 books, 5 lbs. raisins, 1 lb.
walnuts.
Pacific White Shrine of Ocean Park-$1S.OO.
Pacific Wholesale Grocery Co.-2 cases 6/ 3 Golden Rey assorted jam.
Palestine Lodge 'No. 351-Box. miscellaneous radio parts, 2 base balls;
2 bats.
Paris, W., San Gabriel Lodge No. 546-2 qts. canned fruit.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-4 pictures, 3 blankets, curtains and shades
for room furnished by them.
Peters, N. C., Beverly Hills Lodge No. S28-10Yz .qts. jam, 2 .q ts.
canned fruit.
Pentalpha Chapter No. 339, 0. E . S.-10 lbs. almonds, box canned
fruit, 3 qts., 16 pts. jams, 5 glasses jelly, 10 lbs. nuts, 2 lbs.
raisins.
Prentiss, Burr H ., S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574-1 radio.
Prince, L. A., Fillmore Lodge No. 379-17 qts. tomatoes, 2 qts., 3
pts. jam, 1 qt. honey.
Produce Exchange of Los Angeles-2 cases eggs for Easter.
Progressive Lodge No. S78-$82.82.
Pryor, D. E .-Treat, $2S.OO.
Queen Esther Auxiliary of Lankershim, Chapter No. 403, 0 . E . S.Homemade candy.
Rados Laboratories-12 bottles Rados.
Ramona Bakery, Alhambra· (Matthew Link, Prop.) Ramona Lodge
No. 4S7- 18 loaves bread, 2 sheet cakes, 6 dozen tea rolls.
Ramona Lodge No. 457-2S5 large candy canes.
Ramona Star Chapter No. 367-S lbs. Spenc-o,Handi soap, 1 lb.
prunes, 1 qt. green tomato mince meat, 14 qts. jam, 1 gal. 2)/z
qts. canned fruit, 1.7 glasses jelly, 2Yz lbs. pineapple.
Robinson, T. M. Company-Toy horse.

Rothchild, L. Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-2S lbs. fi lled Christmas
candy.
Rouch, Alva and Ruby, Traver Lodge No. 294-2S lbs. prunes, SO
lbs. seedless raisins, 6 qts. canned fruit.
Rouch, Claud, Traver Lodge No. 294-2S lbs. prunes.
Rouch, Ruby F., Traver Lodge No. 294-24 half-gallon jars peaches.
Runyon, Elmina A.-A bequest of $10,000.00 in memory of Mr. a~d
Mrs. Sol Runyon. This bequest was used to construct and equtp
a swimming pool, and wading pool; and to landsca.pe the grounds
adjacent thereto.
San Gabriel Chapter No. 100, Alhambra Commandery No. 48, Alhambra Council No. 2S-10 baseballs, 1 catcher's mitt, 1 set boxing gloves, 4 No. 12 baseball bats, 1 basketball, 3 fo otballs, 3
fielders' gloves, 2 indoor balls.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 4S2-8S qts. canned fruit, 20 qts., 29 pts.,
31 glasses jelly, 3 qts. vegetables, 47"2 qts. pickles, 100 gals.,
S6 qts., 116 pts. jellies and jams, 143 glasses jelly, SO lbs. cranberries, 180 lbs. apples, 2S lbs. nuts, 1 squash, $97.SO for Senior
cla.ss rings.
San Pedro Harbor Chapter No. 174, 0. E. S.-1 overstuffed chair
and ottoman.
Saunders, Bert. L.-14 boxes animal crackers, 4 lbs. jam, 25 candy
marbles.
Schuler, E. H., Master, Beacon of tJ:e West Lodge No. 628-Treat,
$S.OO.
.
Scottish Rite of Los Angeles-20 books.
Searchlight Lodge No. S67-$2S.OO.
Seaside Chapter No. 2S9, 0. E. S.- 10 doz. tea towels, 24 dresser
scarfs, 1 table cover.
Service Chapter No. 414, O. E . S.-12 qts. canned fruit, 9 half-~allon
jars, 6 qts., 30 pts., 22 glasses jellies and jams, 3 pts. pickles,
40 yds. cotto n prints, 20 yds. gingham, 10 doz. tea towels.
Sheldon, F. O ., Porterville-14 lbs. candy, 4 lbs. mixed nuts, 4 lbs.
dates, 4 Ibs. raisins.
Signal Lodge No. S43--3 pr. blankets for their room.

150

Slater, L . N.-2 sail boats.
Social Order of the Beauceaut of Pasadena Assembly No. 44-S qts.
canned frui t, 7 qts., 7 pts., 25 glasses jams and jellies, 1 bottle
pickles.
Smith Bros., Santa Ana C~nyon-Truck load of watermelons.

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND L OUGE OF CALIFOHNIA

Spene.er, Mrs. Fannie, Bigsbee-Peaches.
Tehachapi Chapter No. 188, 0 . E . S.-22 qts., 12 pts., 12 lbs. jams
and jellies, 2 qts. canned fruit.
Thirty-third Degree Northern Jurisdiction of California, 1929-1
globe.
Thompson, Mrs. M. W., Murrietta-Bundle of comic papers.
Treat-$1.10.
Teuchter, August H.-Illustrated papers from Cincinnati daily papers.
The Twinklers of Siloam Chapter No. 406, 0. E . S.-3 pts. jam, 9
glasses jelly, 1 qt. canned fruit, 600 small candy canes.
University Lodge No. 394-9 lugs cherries, $1.00 fo r each child
"Foolish Money" ($186.00).
Verb, Nartin, Westgate Lodge No. 335-3 lbs. candy.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515- Earl Radio for Junior GirlsChristmas.
Vincent, Fred E., Cokely, L'. J.-6 qts. canned fruit, 2 dolls.
Watson, F. W.-Grand Tyler picture for library in senior girls'
building.
West Adams Chapter No. 411 , 0 . E. S.-16 qts., 26 pts., 17 glasses
canned fruits, jams and jellies, 6 qts. honey.
Wise, Mr. and Mrs. S. H., Craftsman Lodge No. 559-4 jars jam.
Woolworth, F. W ., Alhambra-Candy Easter eggs.
Miscellaneous contributions to. treat fund-$18.36.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Covina Home

Lodgi!
No.
Acorn ............................494
Alamo ......................... .122
Albert Pike..................484
Alisa! ............................321
Alta ...................:..........333
Alta Loma....................643
Alpha ............................431
Amador ........................ 65
Anchor ........................273
Arcata .......................... 106
Argonaut ...................... 461
Argonne ......................514

Lodges
Amt.
Lodge
No .
$10.00 Artesia ..........................377
10.00 Ascot ............................ 538
19.00 Ashlar ..........................306
5.00 Atascadero ..................493
10.00 Athens ..........................228
10.00 Azusa ............................305
5.00 Bakersfield ................. .224
5.00 Bay City........................ 526
10.00 Bear Mountain............ 76
10.00 Blackmer .................... 442
10.00 Brawley ....................... .402
10.00 Buckeye ........................195

At11I.

10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

Lodge
No .
Caledonia ....................486
Callayomi ....................282
Capital City..................499
Center ..........................465
Charity ........................362
Charter Rock............. .410
Claremont ....................436
Clay ..............................101
Clinton .......................... 19
Coalinga ......................387
Compass ......................590
Concord ........................117
Confidence ................... .203
Corcoran ..................... .490
Corinthian .................... 9
Corona ..........................324
Crescent ...................... 45
Crockett ......................139
Cupertino ....................510
Citro! ............................656
Delta ............................471
Downey ........................ 220
Dunsmuir ....................297
Durant ..........................268
East Bay........................ 489
East Gate......................290
East San Diego.......... 561
Eden ............................. .113
Eel River..................... .147
EI Cajon Valley.......... 576
EI Centro~.....................385
El Dorado.................... 26
Elmhurst ......................610
El Segundo..................507
Emanuel ......................318
Escalon ........................591
Evergreen ....................259
Eureka .......................... 16
Excelsior ......................166
Fairmount ....................435
Fallbrook ....................317
Fillmore ......................379
Forest .......................... 66

A mt.
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
6.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
16.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
19.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
6.25

L odge
No .
F ort Crook....... :..........575
Francis Drake..............376
F ranklin ......................143
Fraternity ....................399
Fremont ................. :....497
Friendship ....................210
Fruitville ......................336
Galt ..........:...................267
Garden Grove..............586
George Washington....525
Gold Hill... ................... 32
Guardian Lodge of
South Gate................596
Hammond ....................433
H artley ........................ 199
Hawaiian .................... 21
Henry" Knox ................662
H enry Morse
S tevens .................... 541
Herman ........................127
Hesperian ....................264
H ighland Park............382
H ills Ferry..................236
Hiram .......................... 43
H ollenbeck ..................319
H onolulu ......................409
H oward ........................ 96
Illinoistown ................ 51
Indian Rock ..................638
Ing lewood ....................421
John P. Jarman ..........669
Jubilee ..........................604
Kaweah ........................665
La Habra......................659
La Cumbre ....................642
Laguna Beach..............672
La Mesa ........................407
Landmark ....................253
Lakeshore ....................551
La Parfaite Union...... 17
Las Palmas ..................366
Laurel .......................... 245
Lexington .................... 104

153
Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
100.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
51.50
5.00
30.01
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.00

154

No.

Amt.

Libertas -······~·············.466
Liberty .......................... 299
Lindsay ........................416
Live Oak...................... 61
Lodge le Progres de
L'Oceanie ................371
Lodi -····························2S6
Long Beach..................327
Madera ........................280
Malta ............................661
Marin ............................ 191
Mariposa ...................... 24
Martinez ...................... 41
Menorah ......................623
Midway ........................426
Military Service..........S70
Mill Valley..................3S6
Modesto ........................67S
Molino .........~ ................lSO
Monrovia ....................308
Monterey ..................... 217
Mosaic ...,......................218
Mountain Shade.......... 18
Mountain View ............ 194
Mt. Diablo................... .448
Mt. Oso........................460
Needles ........................326
Neptune ........................619
Nicolaus ......................129
Norwalk ......................31S
Oak Grove....................21S
Oasis ............................141
Occidental .................... 22
Ocean Park..................369
Ontario ........................301
Oriental ........................ 144
Orland ................ :........ 265
Orosi ............................383
Owensmouth ..............611
Oxnard ........................341
Pacific Grove ..............331
Palestine ......................351
Palisades ......................637

S.00
10.00
61.25
2S.OO

Lodge

2S.OO
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
2S.OO
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
S.00
20.00
S.00
2.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
17.2S
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
S.00

Lodge
No.
Pajaro .......................... 110
Parnassus ....................388
Pasadena ......................272
Paso Robles ..................286
Patterson ......................488
Peninsula ....................620
Perris ..............:.............411
Phoenix ........................ 178
Piedmont ......................S21
Pinole ..........................3S3
Point ............................ S03
Point Firmin................ SS8
Pomona ........................246
Plumas ........................ 60
Presidio ........................3S4
Redwood City.............. 168
Rising Light................397
Riverside ......................635
Roosevelt ......................SOO
Roseville ....................,.222
Rockridge ....................468
Russian River .............. 181
Sacramento .................. 40
San Bernardino............348
San Diego.................... 35
San Dimas....................428
San Francisco..............360
San Gabriel... ...............S46
San Jacinto ..................338
San Mateo....................226.
San Miguel..................28S ·
San Pasqual... ...............4S2
San Simeon.................. 196
Santa Ana....................241
Santa Barbara.............. 192
Santa Cruz.................... 38
Santa Monica..............307
Santa Paula.................. 291
Santa Paula..................291
Santa Rosa .................... S7
Santa Maria ................S80
Seaport ........................S50
Sequoia ........................349

155

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF '.l'HE

Amt.
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
lS.00
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
2.SO
12.SO
lS.00
20.00
S.00
7.SO
2S.OO
12.SO
S.00
10.00
10.00
40.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
S.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
31.00
12.SO
S.00
S.00
10.00

No.
Lodge
Sierra Madre ..............408
Signal ..........................S43
Silver Gate ....................296
Silver Trowel..............41S
Sincerity ...................... 132
Sojourner ....................607
Solano ..........................229
South Pasadena..........367
Speranza Italiana........219
Standard ......................440
St. Helena.................... 93
Suisun .......................... SS
Sunnyvale ....................Sll
S. W. Hackett..............S74
Taft .............................. Sl6
Temblor ......................477
Temescal ......................314
Torrance ......................447
Triangle ......................S48
Trinity .......................... 27
·chapter

No.

California .................... S
Coalinga ......................114
Grown .......................... 72
Cyrus ............................ lS
Dixon ............................ 48
Donner ........................ 39
Doric ............................ 66
East Gate......................103
El Centro ......................109
Fidelity ........................ 96
Fruitvale .................... A ll
Humboldt .................... S2
Inglewood .................... 131
Keystone ...................... 56
La Purissima................ 104
Los Angeles.................. 33
Marin ............................102
Martinez ...................... 31
Mill Valley..................108
Mission ........................ 79
Montebello .................. 139

No.
Lodge
S.00 T ruckee ........................200
Tujunga ......................S92
10.00
T uscan ..........................261
2S.OO
U nity ............................368
2S.OO
V allejo ..........................487
S.00
10.00 Vesper .......................... 84
Victory ........................474
10.00
lS.00 V isalia .......................... 128
10.00 Washington ................ 20
10.00 Westwood .................... SOl
S.00 White Pine ........'..........SSS
S.00 Whittier ......................323
Wilmington ............... .198
10.00
Winnedumah ..............287
20.00
Woodland ....................1S6
S.00
10.00 Woodstock ................. .491
Y erba Buena............... .403
S.00
Yolo .............................. 81
2S.OO
12.SO Yosemite .................... 99
S.00 Yount ............................ 12

Amt.

Chapters, R. A . M.
Chapter·
A mt.
$12.SO
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00

Amt.
S.00
12.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
8.SO
10.00
32.87
S.00
20.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
2.SO
S.00
S.00

N o.

Amt.

Napa ............................ 30
Ontario ........................105
Plumas ........................ 107
Pomona ........................ 76
Redondo ........................101
Riverside ...................... 67
San Francisco.............. 1
San Jacinto.................. 87
Santa Ana .................... 73
Searchlight .................. 133
Sierra .......................... 21
Signet .......................... S7
Sloon ............................ 37
South Pasadena..........112
St. Helena.................... 63
Sutter ............................ 11
Temple ........................ 41
Unity ............................ 116
Visalia .......................... 44
Wa.s hington ................ 13
Woodland .................... 46

S.00
S.00
2.SO
10.00
10.00
S.00 .
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
2.SO
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00

156

PROCEEDINGS OJ;' THE

Comma11deries, K. T.
Comma11dery

No.

Amt.

Calvary " ...................... 62
Covina .......................... 49
El Porado .................... 4
Glendale ...................... 53
Golden West... ............. 43
Los Angeles.................. 9
Marysville .................. 7
Mount Shasta .............. 32
Napa .............................. 34
Naval ............................ 19

$20.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00

Commandery

Name
.Vo.

Amt.

Oroville ........................ 5
Pasadena ...................... 31
San Luis Obispo.......... 27
Santa Monica Bay...... 61
Southern California.... 37
St. Bernard .................. 23
Visalia ............ .............. 26
Watsonville ................ 22
Woodland .................... 21

$10.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
10.0G
10.00
5.00

Council

No.

Amt.

$ 2.50
10.00
5.00

Chapter

No.

Amt.

$ 5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

N ame

Amt.

Amt.

632 Masonic Club....................
5.00
Ralph M. Hendricks..............
1.00
G. San Pedro.......................... 10.00
Huntington Beach Lodge
No. 380 and Seaside Chapter No. 259, 0. E. S ......... 110.00
Joe M. Boior............................
5.00
Pioneer Chapter, Order of
DeMolay .............................. 10.00

BOYS-98

Council

No.

Pomona ........................ 21
Siskiyou ...................... 24
Valley .......................... 27

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
5.00

No.

Amt.

Josephine ...................... 104
Mercedes ...................... 126
Miguelito .................... 176
San RafaeL. ................ .215
Santa Clara ................. .195
Wheatland .................. 48

Chapter

$25.00
10.00
10.QO
20.00
10.00
20.00

Miscellaneous
East Bay Past Matrons Association (0. E . S.) ............$ 50.00
Miguelito Circle Auxiliary
0. E. S................................... 5.00
Officers Association, 0. E.
S., 23th District.................. 6.00
San Gabriel Masonic Club....
5.00
San Diego Lodge of Perfection, Scottish Right...... 25.00

Name

Children at the Covina Home, August 31, 1930

Chapters, 0. E. S .
Atascadero .................. 344
Beacon Ray .. ................495
Bethlehem .................... 95
Buena Vista .................. 364
Corona .......................... 107
. Golden Wave ................ 103
Jewel ........................... .238

Amt.

F. J. Breckenridge ................ ..
1.00
A. R . Waters ......................... . 5.00
David R. Johnson ................ ..
5.00
Ira A. Clare ............................ ..
5.00
Mr. and Mrs. H. P. Balcom 10.00
Pietro Mela............................. . 5.00
San Joaquin Valley DeMolay Assn ............................. .. 10.00
Clifford F . Weismeyer ........ .. 25.00

Co1mcils, R . S. M.
Gateway ...................... 13
Los Angeles.................. 11
Pasadena ...................... 16

157

UltAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name

Amt.

Los Angeles Ry. Square &
Compass Club ..................... . 39.00
Job's Daughters, Bethel
No. 36................................... . 36.00
Harry Seibel... ........................ . 5.00
Frank . G. Watson, Grand
Tiler ...................................... 15.00
San Louis Obispo Pyramid,
A. E. 0. No. 29, Sciots .. :.
5.00

Na me

Admitted

Allen, Orin........................ July 16, '23
Anderson, Alvin A. ........ Sept. 10, '25
Anderson, Walter D ....... Sept. 10, '25
Arrington, James W ..... July 19, '27
Arthur, Paul L ............... June 27, '28
Athan, Byron D ............... Dec. 29, '27
Bailey, James K. ............ Sept. 10, '25

Lodge

No.

Moleno ................. .150
Apollo ..................396
Apollo .................. 396
N eedles ................326
Dinuba ..................385
Petaluma .............. 180
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..........371
Baker, Kenneth H ........... Aug. 3, '28
West Lake.:.......... 392
Baker, Phillip D ............... Aug. 3, '28
West Lake ............ 392
Bergman, Roy Andrew .. Dec. 30, '29 Mizpah .................. 378
Roseville ..............222
Boast, Alfred G............. Nov. 17, '24
Roseville ............. .222
Boast, Alvin B ............... Nov. 17, '24
Breinen, Lawrence ........ Aug. 11, '29
San Bernardino .... 348
Los Angeles .......... 42
Brown, Robert 0 ............... Dec. 8, '29
Los Angeles .......... 42
Brown, Wm. D ................. Dec. 8, '29
Pentalpha ........... .202
Carroll, Chas. E ............. Mar. 17, '28
Redwood City..... .168
Chapin, Philip R. ............ J une 22, '22
Chapin, Robert D ........... June 22, '22 · Redwood City...... 168
Chapin, Wm. M ............. June 22, '22
Redwood City..... .168
Sequoia ................349
Chetham, Alfred H ....... Aug. 31, '24
San Pasqual... ..... ..452
Clapp, Donald C ............. Sept. 12, '25
Menlo Park. ....:....651
Clemo, Raymond J ........... Apr. 30, '28
Speranza
Cuniberti, Alby ................ Nov. 18, '28
Italiana ........... .219
Speranza
Cuniberti, Remo .............. Nov. 18, '28
Italiana ........... .219
Hollenbeck ..........319
Darling, Buel H ............. Mar. 22,'28

Location

Age

Tehama ........... .14
Alameda ......... .14
Alameda .......... 15
Needles ........... .14
Dinuba ............ 12
Petaluma ......... .12
Honolulu .......... 16
Los Angeles...... 6
Los Angeles ...... 8
Los Angeles ...... 10
Roseville ........ ,.13
Roseville ......... .15
San Bernardino 5
Los Angeles...... 4
Los Angeles ...... 6
Los Angeles ..... .! I
Redwood City ..14
Redwood City.. 15
Redwood City..16
Oakland ........... .14
Pasadena .......... 16
Menlo Park......10
San Francisco ..13
San Francisco.JO
Los Angeles ...... 14

158

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

N ame
Admitted Lodge
No.
Davies, Parker N ...........Apr. 27, '24 Martinez .............. 41
Davis, Frank E ., Jr .......Aug. 5, '28 Golden State ........358
Day, John A ........ ,............Apr. 10, '24 Lompoc ................262
Dent, George C............... Apr. 14, '27 San Jose ................ 10
Ede, Clarence L. ............ Aug. 24, '26 Hope ......................234
Enslow, Lawrence C .........Jan. 6, '30
Reading ................254
Fasshauer, Jacob C.........June 12, '28. Durant ..................268
F ischer, Douglas C......... Oct. 14, '16 Mas. Bd. Relief.. ......
Gains, Burton G.............J une 26, '29
Meridian ..............667
Germond, Edward M ..... N ov. 12, '24
Pasadena ..............272
Gittings, George ............ Sept. 16, '29 Silver Gate............296
Gorbett, Wm. Hal... ....... Nov. 4, '28
Ontario ................301
Gort, George ....................Feb. 19, '29
South San
Francisco ......... 212
Greenberg, Roy J ............. May 20, '24 Lebanon ................495
Greene, Wm. R................. Oct. 3, '26 Temple .................. 14
Harris, John F ............... June 24, '23 Oakland ............... .188
Harris, Charles W .........June 24, '23 Oakland ............... .188
Hayward, Kirkland S ..... Apr. 12, '26 Burlingame .......... 400
Hayward, Stewart L ..... Apr. 12, '26 Burlingame .......... 400
Helwig, Benjamin C.....Sept. 25, '27 Orange Grove ...... 293
Herbert, Fred Harvey.. May 12, '29 Artesia ..................377
Hocks, Russell O ...........June 23, '27 Grand Lodge ............ ..
Jackson, Ernest .............. Dec.13, '23 Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..........371
Lavender, Era! M ...........Mar. 4, '28
Orosi .....:..............383
. Lemmon, Robt. A., J r ..... Feb. 6, '26 Santa Paula ..........291
Lord, Edmund J ............. July 27, '29
Golden West... .... .455
Lord, Raymond P ...........July 27, '29
Golden W est.. ......455
Lord, Richard B.............J uly 27, '29
Golden West... .... .455
Lord, Robert J .................July 27, '29
Golden West... .... .455
Mark, John J ................... Aug. 6, '29 Whittier ................ 323
Mole, Wesley E ............. Mar. 13, '21
West Gate............ 335
McCabe, Archibald ........June 4, '30
Westlake ..............392
McKinley, Douglas S ..... Aug. 31, '21
Vaca ville ..............134
McKinley, Philip E ....... Aug. 31 , '21
Vacaville ..............134
McKinnon, John P ., Jr ... Dec. 15, '24 Sequoia ................349
McNamara, Edward C....A:pr. 23, '30 Humboldt ............ 79
Nelson, Nels .................. Nov. 27, '27 Las Palmas ..........366
Pressy, Floyd ................ Sept. 16, '26
Sincerity ............. .132
Pressy, Samuel .............. Sept. 16, '26 Sincerity .............. 132
Prewett, Norman H .........J an. 4, '28 Sisson .. ~ ...............310
Pryor, Arthur R. ............ Aug. 14, '27
Bell ...................... 483

Location
Age
Martinez ..........17
Los Angeles ...... 13
Lompoc ............ 14
San Jose ............ 15
Beckwith .......... 15
Redding ............12
Berkeley .......... 13
San Francisco .. 18
Glendale ..........14
Pasadena .......... 15
San Diego ........ 15
Ontario ............ 11
San Francisco.. 11
San Francisco .. 15
Sonoma ............ 15
Oakland ............ 17
Oakland ............ 16
Burlingame .... 8
Burlingame ... .12
Orange ............10
Artesia .............. 14
.................. 11
Honolulu ..........16
Orosi ............... .15
Santa Paula......14
San Francisco .. 10
San Francisco.. 11
San Francisco .. 5
San Francisco.. 7
Whittier ............ 10
Los Angeles ..... .16
Los Angeles ...... 6
Vacaville .......... 13
Vacaville ..........15
Oakland ............10
Eureka .............. 9
Fresno .............. 13
Greenville ....... .14
Greenville ....... .15
Mount Shasta .. 12
Bell .................... 10

Name
Admitted
Pryor, Walter D ........... Aug. 14, '27
Reynolds, Earl R ............. Sept. 12, '20
Reynolds, Ivan G............. Sept 12, '20
Richards, Langton .......... May 17, '30
Richardson, Jos. A.,Jr ... Nov. 18, '28
Riddell, Edwin B. ............ May 29, '30
Riddell, Robt. McA ....... May 29, '30
Rouch, Herbie A ............. May 4, '26
Rouch, Melvin R. ............ May 4, '26
Runkle, Robert ................ June 15, '25
Runkle, Thomas E ......... June 15, '25
Russ, Frank L ................. Dec. 17, '27
Russ, Edwin W ............... Dec. 17, '27
Schi·erenbeck, Albert E...July 7, '26
Schulte, Carl... ................... Apr. 2, '25
Schultz, Frank. ........... ...... May 11, '28
Schwartz, Adolph ............ Apr. 27, '30
Schwartz, Joseph ............ Apr. 27, '30
Shields, John J .................Jan. 2, '28
Short, Ralph C.................Aug. 4, '28
Shoupe, Billie B............. Sept. 10, '27
Simon, Norman .............. Sept. 22, '26
Simon, Teddy.................. Sept. 22, '26
Swartz, Lowell F .............June 8, '30
Swartz, Robert W ...........June 8, '30
Taylor, Floyd S ............. Oct. 19, '22
Taylor, Lauryn H ........... Aug. 29, '21
Taylor, Vaughn C. A ..... Aug. 29, '21
Traxler, Arnold C.........June 8, '29
Walline, Cleon M.............Jan. 31, '30
Walline, Harold M.........Jan. 31, '30
W illiams, Robt. R. ........ May 27, '25
Williams, Thos W ......... July 12, '30

Lodge
No.
Bell ...................... 483
Live Oak. ............. 61
Live Oak. ............. 61
Mt. Davidson ........481
Golden State ........ 358
Amity ....................370
Amity ....................370
Traver ..................294
Traver ..................294
Lompoc ................262
Lompoc ................262
Hollenbeck ..........319
Hollenbeck .......... 319
Oak Grove ...........215
Hermann .............. 127
Military Service.. 570
Los Angeles.......... 42
Los Angeles .......... 42
Drytown ............. .174
LaFayette ........... .126
Santa Ana ............241
Ocean Park ..........369
Ocean Park. .........369
Mount Oso..........460
Mount Oso'. .........460
Woodstock ......... .491
Woodstock ..........491
Woodstock ......... .491
Oakland ............... .188
Winnedumah ...... 287
Winnedumah ......287
Artesia .................. 377
Orosi .................... 383

159

Location
Age
Bell ..................... 8
Oakland ............ 17
Oakland ............ 9
San Francisco.. 13
Los Angeles ...... 11
San Francisco .. 9
San Francisco.. 11
Kingsburg ........13
Kingsburg ........ 10
Lompoc ............ 11
Lompoc ............ 15
Los Angeles ......15
Los Angeles ...... 13
Alameda .......... 15
San Francisco.JS
San Francisco .. 6
Los Angeles .....,11
Los Angeles...... 9
Plymouth ........ 16
Sebastopol ........ 8
Santa Ana ........14
Ocean Park...... 15
Ocean Park. .... .13
Tracy ................16
Tracy ................ 6
Alameda ..........11
Alameda .......... 14
Alameda .......... 15
Oakland .:.. ~ ....... 13
Bishop .............. 6
Bishop .............. 8
Artesia ............ 12
Orosi ................ 5

GIRLS-77·

Name
Admitted
Andrews, Doris A. .......... May 27, '30
Bailey, Anita .................... Oct. 18, '29
Reniamin, Gloria G........... Mar. 9, '30
Bowser, Irma M ............... Sept. 9, '27

Lodge
No.
Lassen ..................149
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..........371
Manchester .......... 585
Lexington ............104

Location
Age
Susanville ....... .10
Honolulu ......... .14
Los Angeles...... 8
El Monte ......... .15

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. Location
Age
Bowser, Verna L ............. Sept. 9, '27 Lexington ........... .104 El Monte......... .13
Brown, Alberta................} uly 16, '24 Dunsmuir ........... .297 Dunsmuir ........ 10
Brown, E. Eleanor. ........... Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles.......... 42 Los Angeles...... 14
Brown, Virginia................ Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles.......... 42 Los Angeles...... 11
Burns, Janice Helene.... Apr. 22, '30 Veteran ................373 Sawtelle ............ 7
Clark, Josephine N ......... Apr. 23, '27 Antioch ................ 175 Antioch ............ 13
Clark, Frances N ............ .]une 15, '26 · So. California..... .278 Los Angeles...... 9
Clark, Phyletha B...........Jtme 15, '26 So. California ..... .278 Los Angeles...... 8
Clai-k, Dorothea O .........June 15, '26 So. California......278 Los Angeles ...... 7
Colby, Maxine..... :............N'ov. 28, '29 Covenant ..............527 Los Angeles...... 9
Cox, Emily P ................... May 16, '26 Center ..................465 . Fresno .............. 8
Cox, Mary G: ....................J an. 13, '25 Center ..................465 Fresno ..............16
Ede, Thelma R. .............. Aug. 24, '26 Hope ......................234 Beckwith .......... 13
Eremin, Harrief............. Oct. 16, '27 Los Angeles .......... 42 Los Angeles ...... 14
Eremin, Zenith.................. Oct. 16, '27 Los Angeles.......... 42 Los Angeles ...... 8
Fahrenger, Helen Jean....Feb. 10, '29 Ascot ....................538 Los Angeles ......12
Fowler, Alice M...............June 28, '27 Traver ..................294 Kingsburg ........ 14
Gains, Marjorie................ Oct. 14, '29 Meridian ..............667 Glendale .......... 15
Germond, Ramona A ..... Nov. 12, '24 Pasadena ..............272 Pasadena .......... 14
Germond, Dolly Jean ...... Nov. 12, '24 Pasadena ..............272 Pasadena ..........11
Gittings, Helen S ........... Sept. 16, '29 Silver Gate............296 San Diego ........ 14 ·
Garbett, Frances E ........... Nov. 4, '28 Ontario ................301 Ontario ............ 14
Gorbett, Ruth Aleen........ Nov. 4, '28 Ontario ................301 Ontario -............ 9
Hanson, Alice M ...............Feb. 5, '25 Golden State........358 Los Angeles...... 16
Harris, Annabelle............June 24, '23 Oakland ............... .188 Oakland ............ 14
Hartman, Betty Jane ...... Mar. 6, '26 Union .................... 58 Sacramento ...... 14
Hedrick, Bernice M .......Jan. 22, '29 Tujunga ..............592 Tuiunga .........J4
Herbert, Josephine L ..... May 12, '29 Artesia ..................377 Artesia ............13
Holbrook, Frances D ....... Apr. 4, '23 King David's ........209 S. Luis Obispo.. 14
Horr, Margaret\...............Jan. 27, '30 Military Service..570 San Francisco.. 7
Jordan, Mildred E........... May 28, '27 Justice .................. 549 San Francisco.. 11
J ordan, Dorothy H ......... May 28, '27 Justice .................. 549 San Francisco.. 7
Knudsen, Alida..................July 2, '21 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco.. 17
Mann, Evelyn..................Sept. 11, '21 Buena Park..........357 Buena Park...... 15
Mark, Elizabeth S ............. Aug. 6, '29 Whittier ................323 Whittier ..........12
Mark, Martha R. .............. Aug. 6, '29 · Whittier ................ 323 Whittier ..........14
Merrill, Eunice J ...............Sept. 4, '21 Highland Park ....382 Los Angeles...... 16
Miller, Anna May.......... Apr. 29, '28 Durant ..................268 Berkeley .......... 9
Miller, Ruth E ................. Apr. 29, '28 Durant ..................268 Berkeley .......... 12
McNamara, Anna ............Apr. 23, '30 Humboldt ............ 79
Eureka ............ 7
Nelson, LH!ian................ Nov. 27, '27 Las Palmas ..........366 Fresno -..............12
O'Connell, Alice L ......... Nov. 18, '23 Silver Trowel......415 Los Angeles ......10
O'Connell, Florence........ N ov. 18, '23 Silver Trowel... ...415 Los Angeles......16

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
O'Connell, Pauline.......... Nov. 18, '23
Parsons, Alberta M .........June 29, '25
Prim, Maxine J ............... Nov. 15, '28
Prim, Virginia Ida.......... Nov. 15, '28
Reed, Lila ............................ Dec. 2, '28
Reynolds, Juliette.............. May 7, '28
Runkle, Demba L ........... Nov. 13, '22
Runkle, J ean A ............... Nov. 13, '28
Schierenbeck, Ruth............July 7, '26
Schulte, Helen.................... Apr. 2, '25
Shaw, Beryl F ...................Jan. 13, '23
Shaw, Loraine M .............]an. 13, '23
Short, Beth Marie............ Aug. 4, '28
Short, Dorothy Mae........Aug. 4, '28
Small, Marie R...............Aug. 12, '28
Swartz, Virginia E ...........J une 8, '30
Tappendorff, Ida ............ Mar. 18, '22
Tripp, Geraldine R. .......... Nov. 8, '27
Tyler, Barbara ]. ...............Jan. 9, '26
Tyler, Dorothy A ...............Jan. 9, '26
Walline, Lois C.................Jan. 31, '30
Ward, Marguerite L ....... Oct. 30, '24
Warren, Ruth E ............. Sept. 28, '26
White, Yvonne................ Apr. 27, '24
Willgeroth, Eleanor........ May 25, '28
Willgeroth, Wilhelmina A ...........................May 25, '28
Williams, Beulah
Patricia ........................ Aug. 28, '27
Williams, Irene H ........... Aug. 28, '27
Williams, Dorothy Mae.July 12, '30
Wittenberg, Carol E .......June 17, '25

161

Lodge
No.
Silver Trowel......415
South Gate............320
H oltville ..............425
Holtville ..............425
Ionic ......................520
Live Oak.............. 61
Lompoc ................262
Lompoc ................262
Oak Grove............215
H ermann .............. 127
King David's........209
King David's........209
Lafayette .............. 126
Lafayette ..............126
Ascot .................... 538
Mount Oso ............460
East Belt ..............391
San Jose ................ 10
Palo Alto.............. 346
Palo Alto.............. 346
Winnedumah ......287
Dinuba ..................385
Alhambra ............322
Park ......................449
Hawaiian .............. 21

Location
Age
Los Angeles ......15
Los Angeles......17
Holtville ..........10
Holtville ..........15
Los Angeles .....J4
Oakland ............11
Lompoc ............ 17
Lompoc ............13
Alameda ..........13
San Francisco.. 12
S. Luis Obispo..17
S. Luis Obispo..13
Sebastopol ........ 9
Sebastopol ........10
Los Angeles ......14
Tracy ................ 8
Tuolumne ........17
San Jose ............10
Palo Alto.......... 8
Palo Alto.......... 12
Bishop ..............12
Dinuba ..............14
Alhambra ........12
San Francisco..14
Honolulu .......... 7

H awaiian .............. 21

Honolulu .......... 8

Downey ................220
Downey ................220
Orosi ....................383
West Gate ............ 335

Downey· ............10
Downey ............13
Orosi ................10
Los Angeles ......17

Outside Relief U11der Care of Home
Name
L odge
N o.
Burns, Janice Helene....................Veteran ....................373
Davies, Parker N .........................Martinez .................. 41
Fowler, Alice M ........................... Traver ....................294
Gort, George.................................... So. San Francisco..212
Hayward, Kirkland S ................. Burlingame ............400
Hayward, Stewart L ................... Burlingame ............400
Helwig, Benjamin C.....................Orange Grove......... .293

Began
April, 1930
September, 1927
August, 1930
March 3, 1930
June 15, 1930
J une 15, 1930
December, 1929

182

l'HOCJ1JgDINGS OF THE

Name
Lodge
No.
Hocks, Russell (). ...................... Grand Lodg~
Holbroolt, F'rancc~ D ................... King David's ......... .209
Pressy, 91Nel.. ............................Sinterity .................. 132
Reynold8, F.arl R. ........................Live Oak .................. 61
Runkll', l>emba L .........................Lompoc ....................262
Ru~· Frank L ...........................:... Hollenbeck .............. 319

Began
August, 1930
September, 1929
August, 1930
September, 1929
September, 1929
August, 1930

Outside Relief Children by Trustees
Date began
May, 1927
Oct., 1929
July, 1928
Mar., 1926
Aug., 1928
Mar., 1930
May, 1927
Apr., 1929
Mar., 1930
May, 1927
June, 1929
Apr., 1928
Sept., 1928
Feb., 1926
Nov., 1925
Jan., 1927
July, 1929
Feb., 1927
Feb., 1927
Feb., 1930

. Mottthly
Name
Lodge
Allowanc~
Vivian S. Dent... ..................... San Jose No. 10..................$30.00
Six Mathews children ............ San Joaquin No. 19 ............ 60.00
Wilda Brown ............................ Dunsmuir No. 397.............. 25.00
Three Owens children............ Vacaville No. 134.............. 60.00
Two Wear children ................ Excelsior No. 166.............. 40.00
Two Wisler children.............. Porterville No. 303 ............ 30.00
Five Mayhugh children.......... Long Beach No. 327.......... 70.00
Three Bounds children.......... Ful!erton No. 339................ 60.00
Two DeNike children ............ Presidio No. 354................ 50.00
Pearl Odette Vincent.............. Y erba Buena No. 403........ 10.00
Four Phillips children............ Mount Oso No. 460............ 60.00
Abraham Ottenberg................ Lincoln No. 470.~ ................ 20.00
Two Hitch children................ Point No. 503 ...................... 40.00
Two Chandler children.......... Alpha No. 431... ................. :. 40.00
Two Havelin children ............ Le Progres No. 371... ......... 60.00
Two Carlisle children............ Schofield No. 443 ................ 40.00
Vesta Boynton .......................... Liberty No. 299.................... 30.00
Two Martin children. ............. Mount ] ackson No. 295 .... 50.00
Raymond Sherrar.................... Veteran No. 373 .................. 30.00
Hazel Doris Wagner .............. St. Helena No. 93 ................ 15.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

163

Lodge
No.
Westlake .............. 392
Humboldt ............ 79
Mt. Davidson ........ 481
Amity .................... 370
Amity .................... 370
Los Angeles .......... 42
Los Angeles.......... 42
Mount Oso ............ 460
Mount Oso ............ 460
Winnedumah ..... .287
Winnedumah ......287
Orosi .................... 383

Location
Age
Los Angeles...... 6
Eureka · ............ 9
San F rancisco ..13
San Francisco .. 9
San F rancisco ..11
Los Angeles ...... 11
Los Angeles ...... 9
Tracy .............. 16
Tracy .............. 6
Bishop .............. 6
Bishop .............. 8
Orosi ................ 5

Name
Admitted
McCabe, Archibald .......... ] une 4, '30
McNamara, Edw. Chas.Apr. 23, '30
Richards, Langton .......... May 17, '30
Riddell, Edwin Belm't..May 29, '30
Riddell, Robt. McAlpin.. May 29, '30
Schwartz, Adolph ............ Apr. 27, '30
Schwartz, Joseph ............ Apr. 27, '30
Swartz, Lowell F ............... June 8, '30
Swartz, Robert Wm.........June8,'30
Walline, Cleon Maurice .. Jan. 31, '30
Walline, Harold Mascal..Jan. 31, '30
Williams, Thos. Wesley .. July 12, '30

GIRLS-14
Loage
No.
Admitted
Name
Andrews, Doris Adeline.May 27, '30 Lassen .................. 149
Le Progres de
Bailey, Anita ...................... Oct. 18, 29
l'Oceanie ..........371
Manchester .......... 585
Benjamin, Gloria .............. Mar. 9, '30
Brown, Estella Eleanor.. .. Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles.......... 42
Los Angeles .......... 42
Brown, Virginia ................ Dec. 8, '29
Burns, Janice Helene...... Apr. 22, '30 Veteran ................ 373
Colby, Maxine.................. Nov. 28, '29 Covenant .............. 527
Meridian ..............667
Gains, Marjorie ................ Oct. 14, '29
Gittings, Helen................ Sept. 16, '29 Silver Gate............296
Military Service .. 570
Horr, Margaret.. .............. ] an. 27, '30
Humboldt ............ 79
McNamara, Anna ............ Apr. 23, '30
Swartz, Virginia E ........... June8, '30 Mount Oso ............ 460
Walline, Lois Constance.Jan. 31, '30 Winnedumah ..... .287
Orosi ....................383
Williams, Dorothy Mae .. July 12, '30

Location
Age
Susanville ....... .10
Honolulu ......... .14
Los Angeles ...... 8
Los Angeles ...... 14
Los Angeles ...... 11
Sawtelle .......... 7
Los Angeles...... 9
Glendale .......... 15
San Diego........ 13
San Francisco .. 7
Eureka .............. 7
Tracy ................ 8
Bishop ..............12
Orosi ................ 10

Depart11res D14ring the Year
Admitted During the Year ·
BOYS-16
BOYS-18
Name
Admitted
Bergman, Roy Andrew .. Dec. 30, '29
Breinen, Lawrence .......... Aug. 11, '29
Brown, Robert.. .................. Dec. 8, '29
Brown, William .................. Dec. 8, '29
Enslow, Lawr'ce Claude ..] an. 6, '30
Gittings, George .............. Sept. 16, '29

Lodt;e
No.
Mizpah .................. 378
San Bernardino .... 348
Los Angeles .......... 42
Los Angeles.......... 42
Reading ................254
Silver Gate............296

Age
Location
Los Angeles.. .... 10
San Bernardino 5
Los Angeles ...... 4
Los Angeles...... 6
Redding ............ 12
San Diego .......... 15

Name
Admitted
Aby, Robert S ................. Aug. 23, '21
Allen, Colin F ................. Feb. 20, '26
Chapin, John E ...............June 22, '22
Fischer, Eugene A. ........ Oct. 14, '16
Garbett, Jack Paul... ....... Nov. 4, '28
Greene, John D ................. Oct. 3, '26
Greer, Jack Revelle ........ Nov. 18, '27

Departed
Returned to mother........June 22, '30
To grandfather ................June 25, '30
Returned to mother.. ......June 25, '30
.............................................. Sept. 5, '29
.............................................. Sept. 1, '29
Returned to mother ........June 13, '30
.............................................. Aug. 8, '29

164
N qme

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Admitted

Departed

_H-<:>lbrook, Raymond S ..... Apr. 4, '23
Kennedy, Ralph E ........... May 11, '26
Na~inian, Stephen M ....... Mar. 9, '22
Prewett, Harland R. ...... Mar. 3, '19
Simon, Sterling.............. Sept. 22, '26
Schwartz, Sidney............ June 29, '27
S~artz, Lowell F ............. June 11, '28
Swartz, Robert W ...........June 11, '28
White, Lawrence A ......... Apr. 27, '24

Dropped from rolL ......... Oct. 2, '29
....,.......................................... Apr. 1, '30
Died .................................... Nov. 3, '29
Returned to mother ........ J une 25, '30
............................................ May 31, '30
To guardian ...................... Apr. 13, '30
Returned to mother .......... Jan. 26, '30
Returned to mother ........ Nov. 29, '29
Returned to mother ........ June 25, '30

GIRLS-22
Admitted

Departed

Allen, Lauretta B. ..........July 16, '23
Chetham, Demaris H ..... Aug. 3,1, '24
Clapp, Elizabeth O ......... Sept. 12, '25
Clapp, Ruth Beatrice ...... Sept. 12, '25
Clare, Margaret W ........... Jan. 9, '27
Glidden, Donna E ........... Sept. 9, '26
Holbrook, Gw'dolyne E... Apr. 4, '23
Jackson, Martha A ...........July 2, '25
Kaford, Lois E ............... Mar. 19, '26
Keith, Viola D ............... Mar. 24, '22
King, Mildred M ............. Nov. 21, '19
Marshall, Margaret J ... Sept. 16, '28
Odell, Betty A. ................ Mar. 12, '22
Raftery, Martha ................ Dec. 2, '17
Raftery, Mary.................... Dec. 2, '17
Reutepohler, Dorothea H.Feb. 27, '27
Schofield, Vera L .......... :Feb. 27, '21
Schulte, Margaret.............. Apr. 2, '25
Shaw, Isabelle G.............Jan. 13, '23
Swartz, Virginia E ......... June 11, '28
Tappcndorff, Ada ............ Mar. 18, '22
Walker, Dorothy C. ...... Mar.12, '22

Name

............. .'.............................. May 31, '30
............................................ May 31, '30
Returned to father ..........June 25, '30
............................................ Sept. 16, '29
............................................ Mar. 15, '30
To relatives ...................... June 21, '30
............................................ May 31, '30
.................................................. Dec. '29
To brother and wife ........ June 14, '30
............................................ June 25, '30
To business college........ June 25, '30
Returned to mother .. ;..... June 12, '30
Returned to mother ........ June 12, '30
To business college.......... J une 23, '30
To business college ..........June 18, '30
Returned to mother ........June 12, '30
.............................................. Mar. 1, '30
Returned to her family ..June 14, '30
Returned to mother ........ June 18, '30
Returned to mother ........ Nov. 29, '29
Returned to father .......... June 16, '30
Returned to mother ........June 15, '30

165

PETITION F OR CHANGE" OF LODGE NAME
Peninsula Lodge No. 620, located at O_c ean Beach, presented a resolution requesting that the name of the Lodge
be changed to Point Loma Lodge. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
CONTROVERSY BETWEEN LODGES
Elk Gr,ove Lodge No. 173, presented a resolution complaining against the action of Warren G. Harding Lodge
No. 539, in receiving a petition for the degrees of Masonry
from one who resided within the normal jurisdiction of Elk
Grove Lodge without the permission of said last named
Lodge. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
DUAL MEMBERSHIP
Jubilee Lodge No. 604, presented a resolution requesting
Grand Lodge to permit dual membership. Referred to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
GRAND LODGE VALLEE DE ME XIC O
A resolution was presented in behalf of the San Diego
County Officers' Associatipn, requesting that this Grand
Lodge recognize the Grand Lodge of Vallee de Mexico.
Referred to the committee on Policy and General Purposes.
THANKS T O PARK COMMISSIONERS
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
\VHr:REA~, The department of parks of the city of San Francisco in the wondrous Golden Gate Park ha~ presented and grown
in beautifully colored flowers a plot reading "Welcome, Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M., 1930," and a square and compass emblem, and
Whereas, This is a very gracious act that ought not go unnoticed by this Grand Lodge if it is not to be thought 11ngrateful;
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Grand Secretary write the Department of
Parks and Playgrounds its appreciation of the very fine com'p liment.
C. E. MALLACHOWITZ,
Caledonia Lodge No. 486.

Referred tu the Committee un Policy and General Purposes.

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother Mallac:howitz, also presented three copies each
of eleven thoughts for the good of Masonry, all which were
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO CONSTITUTION
The following resolution.s proposing to amend the Constitution were presented, all being referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence.
To the M.'.TV.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Resoi<'cd, That Section 93 of the Constitution be amended by
adding the words "or within" after the word "from" in the second
line of said section.
C. H. ECKERT,
Past Master, Holtville Lodge No. 425.
We, the undersigned, present the following preamble, covering
residential qualifications of persons in the service of the United States
Navy:
1. WHEREAS, A person presenting his petition to a Masonic
Lodge within the jurisdiction of the State of California must comply
with the residential qualifications as contained in Section 96 of the
Constitution, and
2. WHEREAS, This requirement sometimes causes the petitioner
to forego presenting his petition for the reason that his ship may
not be in port long enough to allow the Lodge to take proper action,
it being necessary for ·the Lodge to receive the request, vote for a
special dispensation and apply for same to the Grand Master at one
stated meeting and at the next receive the petition and then another
month is required for the proper investigation, and
3. 'NHEREAS, During the intervening weeks the ship on which
petitioner resides and calls his home, has left port and it is sometimes six or eight months, and in some cases even longer, before the
candidate is in a position to present himself for the first degree.
4. We, therefore, offer the following resolution for an additional
section to the Constitution to be known as Section 96-A, and recommend its adoption.
5. Resofr1ed, That Section 96-A be added and made a part of
the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of California; said section to read as follows:
"Section 96-A. The home port of a vessel belonging to the
United States Navy (said port having been designated by the

GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

United States Navy Department) shall be considered as the
bona fide residence of any of its crew, and any person attached
to said vessel for the six months last past may petition for and
receive the degrees of Masonry in any Lodge having jurisdiction of the home port of the vessel, without the necessity of the
Lodge securing a special dispensation to receive the petition."
DAVID L. POTTER,
Master, Naval Lodge No. 87.
RUSSELL C. ]ONES,
Master, Solano Lodge No. 229.
JOHN K. HARRISON,
Master, Vallejo Lodge No. 487.

The following proposed change in the Constitution of
this Grand Body is submitted for your consideration.·
Group Balloting, Section 103)/,. First paragraph, line 3. Changing the word "three" to read "two." It now reads, "Where three or
more petitions are to be balloted upon, the Master shall" etc. If
changed as proposed it will then read, "Where two or more petitions are to be balloted upon the Master shall read the names," as
at present re.quired, etc.
No good reason appears to the proposer for requiring separate
ballots when but two petitions are to be balloted upon, when a collective ballot is all that is required when three or more petitions
are to be balloted upon.
The proposed amendment meets with the approval of all with
whom it has been discussed and in the opinion of the proposer
should be adopted as a matter of uniformity in balloting for candi dates.
'c. P. LYNDALL, P. M.,
Arlington Lodge No. 414.

Resoh•ed, that Section 119 of the Constitution he amended to
read as follows:
Providrd, that should any member neglect for the period of two
years to pay said dues or have the same remitted by his Lodge, the
Secretary shall notify him by registered letter that unless at the next
stated meeting his dues are paid he will automatically be dropped from
the rolls without further reference to the Lodge, and such member
may not be restored except by three-fourths vote by ballot of all the
members present at the next stated meeting after the petition for
restoration is presented.
w. W. CARPENTER,
Consuelo Lodge No. 325.

PllUCEl~l>INUS

.1G8

UL<' TILE

. Resoli•ed, that Section 140 of the Constitution be amended to
read as follows:
Sec. 140. N_o ne but members in good standing, whose dues are
paid, shall be entitled to vote at an election; and every voter shall
be eligible to any office in the Lodge. If the dues of a member have
been remitted, in accordance with the provisions of section 128, at
any time within one year previous to an election, then such member
shall not be disqualified from · voting at such election, or holding
office, though the dues of such member accruing since such remission
.have not been paid.
Resoli•ed, that section 2, article IX of the By-Laws be amended
to read as follows:
Sec. 2. No member , who shall be in arrears for dues at the time
of the annual election, shall be permitted to vote, or shall be
eligible to any office; but such disqualification shall not apply to a
member whose dues have been remitted, in accordance with the provisions of section 128 of the Constitution, at any time within one
year previous to the annual election.

GRAND LODC~ OF CALIFORNIA

169

(;rand Lodge and contin.uing until such time as he is elected to membership in some Lodge. The Grand Secretary shall issue a dues
receipt for the same, which receipt shall serve to all intents and purposes as a <limit when applying for affiliation. A Mason so restored
who refuses or neglects to pay dues as herein prescribed shall not
receive any Masonic rights, privileges or charities until he shall have
paid all back dues to the Grand Secretary accruing since his restoration and shall have received permisson of the Grand Master to r egain
s uch standing; or, until he shall have been elected a member of some
Lodge by affiliation according to provision of section 122. In case
financial distress be shown, the Grand Master may order the dues
remitted then and there declare such a restored Mason entitled to all
Masonic privileges and benefits and cause the Grand Secretary to
issue the recei pt as above provided.
BERKELEY MASTERS' CONFERENCE.

Rcs(!/;•_rd that the following to be added at th e end of present

Resolved, that Section 210 of the Constitution of the Most Worshipful Grand L odge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California be amended to read a·s follows:
Sec. 210. All sentences of suspension shall be for an indefinite
period; and a Lodge may. at any stated meeting, by the votes of twothirds of the members present, annul any such sentence of suspension
pronounced by itself, and restore the Mason thus suspended to all his
Masonic rights and privileges; provided, that a written request of the
suspe nded Mason for such restoration, accompanied by a resolution
that the suspended Mason be restored to all his Masonic r ights and
privileges, signed by a member of said Lodge, have been presented
and read in open Lodge at the stated meet ing next preceding; provided, further, that a Lodge shall not r eceive or consider any. ,such
request or resolution for the restoration of a suspended Mason more
frequently than once in twelve months. -And in ca:se o.f such r estora- ·
tion, the Secretary shall at once notify the restored party and the
Grand Secretary thereof ; and provided, furth er, that if. the Mason
suspended was not a member of the Lodge adjudging suspension, the
application fo r r estoration shall be r efused unless the consent of the
lodge in which membership was held, if it be in this jurisdiction, is
given. The request for such consent shall lie over at least one stated
meeting.
IvoREs R. DAINS, V..'. M ..
Crockett Lodge No. 139.

sec. 211 :
Such a restored Mason shall pay as dues $12.00 a year in advance
to th e Grand Lodge the dues beginning on the date of restoration by

Reso/1•rd. that the form of application for affiliation (section 247
of the constitution) be am ended to include the following: P lace and

Resoli•ed, that section 165 of the Constitution be amended as
follows:
Sec. 165. It is the duty of every Master Mason to be a member
o_f some Lodge and every non-affiliated Mason who holds a <limit
which is not more than six months old fr om the date of its issuance
.shall be considered to be in good standing and entitled to all the
rights, .privileges and charities of Masonry. Such Masons who having
failed io be elected a member of some Lodge in the six months'
period allowed herein and who wish to regain full Masonic
standing m ay do so only on being e lected to membership in some
Lodge (according to provisions of section 122-Part 4; a nd in
case of rejection all fees shall be returned). It is further provided
that where <limits of the signers of petitions for the formation of new
Lodge~ were less than six months old when the petitions were signed,
but wher e delay in getting them ready cause <limits to become more
than six months old, the Grand Master may rule all to be in good

standln~,.

Change title to "Restoration by Grand Lodge, Masons at Large."

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LQDGE OF CALIFORNIA

dat.e of birth; place of business and occupation; phone number of
residence and business; city in which Lodge of present membership
is located; if applicant has been affiliated with more than one Lodge,
to state names and location of same; reference other than recommending brethren.

W. W. Lueders ............................................................................ .. 1,000.00
Horace Bell Allen ..................................................................;...... . 1,000.00
George Fields .................................................................................. 726.00 . .
William D . Wisnom ......................................................................
500.00
John L. Siller .................................................................................... 1,000.00
Estate of Mary McPeak......................................,............................. 886.50
Estate of John Rea, Hanford No. 279........·....................................
50.00
Josephine D. Brobeck, Masonic Temple stock............................ 250.00
William M. Brobeck, Masonic Temple stock............................ 250.00
Mrs. Jos. Weissbein, Masonic Temple stock..............................
100.00
62.50
Mable C. Comstock, Masonic Temple stock..............................
A. C. Kains, Masonic Temple stock............................................
100.00
Edgar Nave, Naval Lodge No. 87..................................................
1.00
Charles DeBolt, Naval Lodge No. 87 ...................................,......
1.00
15.00
Fred R. Jones, California Lodge No. !........................................
William B. Craig, California No. !................................................
3.00
250.00
Frank W: Fuller................................................................................
Nick Davis, Las Palmas Lodge No. 366......................................
5.00
Jane H. Swinnerton and ·
George H. Hotaling, Masonic Temple stock.............................. 5,000.00
Fred D. Hood, Hollenbeck No. 319 ..............................................
10.00
1.56
Hermosa Lodge No. 557....................................................................
105.00
Frank G. Watson..............................................................................
500.00
Ella K oening (Faulkner estate) ....................................................
Carrie P. Kennedy (Faulkner estate) ............................................ 500.00
Janet Coleman, Masonic Temple stock ........................................ 710.00
710.00
George E. Coleman, Masonic Temple stock................................
John C. Coleman, Jr., Masonic Temple stock.....·....................... 710.00
Persis H. Coleman, Masonic Temple stock................................ 710.00
S. Waldo Coleman, Masonic Temple stock................................ 710.00
Mary L. Jennings, Masonic Temple stock.................................. 710.00
Florence C. Noble, Masonic Temple stock.................................. 710.00
Lillie Wegeforth, Masonic Temple stock...•.:.............................. 1,040.00
Grace Hamilton, Masonic Temple stock.~~ .............;..................... 1,000.00

M ASONI C SECRETARY'S ASSOCIATION OF SOUT HERN CALIFORNIA.

A similar resolution was presented by the Master of
Caledonia Lodge No. 486.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M.'.W:.Grand Lodge of Califomia :
Your Committee on Accounts, whose duty it is to approve all
Grand Lodge expenses for the year, pursuant to Constitutional requirements, beg leave to repo rt that we called at the office of the
Grand Secretary the last Saturday of each month, and audited and
approved all bills, claims and demands including Grand Lodge appropriations amounting to $165,401.03, which were received and presented
to the Committee by the Grand Secretary.
PAUL NATHAN,
EDWARD

E. CONN,

OTTO G. FREYERMUTH,

v. E. PERRY,

Committee.

Report adopted.
REPO~T OF THE COMMITTEE ON ENDOWMENT

To the M.'.U(.'.Grcmd Lodge of California:
Your Committee on . Endowment respectfully reports that the
fund has been increased during the year by $29,552.69; and at the end
of the fiscal year, July 31, 1930, amounted to $633,023.98.
The donatiohs for the year were as follows:
Estate of Sidney L. Church............................................................$ 604.88
Adolph Zeisler ................................................................................
461.15
John D. Ricardo ............................................................................. . 4,038.15
George F. Cromer ......................................................................... 1.000.00
Hans N. P. Lund .......................................................................... .. 1.000.00
Motley H. Flint. ........................................................................... .. 1.000.00
Katherine A. Kadletz ....................................................................
500.00

GEORGE M. PERINE,

WM. T. LUCAS,
EZRA DECOTO,

W . I. KOHNKE,
I. B. BENJAMIN,
LEMUEL L. TEST,

Report adopted.

THOMAS FLINT.

171

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At 4 :30 p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9 .:30
o 'dock Wednesday morning.

Let us strive to preserve our ancient landmarks, that the shibboleth
be again sounded in the corridors of time and within. ~he walls of: our
IC'gislative halls. So mote it be,
"I am my brother's keeper" for Masonry, and to this end as
chairman of your Committee on Library I offer the following res.olution and recommend its adoption:
'·
"That this Grand Lodge hereby appropriate and set< aside as •a
Library Fund each year the sum of $1,000.00, thus providing a maintenance fund out of which to allow the purchase by the Committee
on Library of such available works as nee~ s demand. Requisition for
l'ttch to bear the vise of your Grand Secretary as voucher drawn ' ~n
your Grand Treasurer."
DENMAN S. WAGSTAFF, Chafrman Committee on Library.

3Jn Q)rano 1£o1lgr
Morning Session
Wednesday, October 15, 1930.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand

~aster presiding.

The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.

' 173

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

LASSEN MONUMENT
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LIBRARY
To the M. · .W. ·.Grand Lodge of California:
It is with renewed pleasure that we again render an annual reJ?ort
to Grand Lodge of our stewardship as a Committee on Library.
Owing to the urgent need of a rearrangement of office and committee accommodations here, incident to Grand Lodge Communications in this Temple, the space now designated as the library section
has · given us increased room and consequently presents our first
tangible opportunity to begin to build a library section that with a
little nroney given us to use from year to year will become of untold
servi.c e·to the brethren in increasing measure as its advantages become
known~·
.
.
. Valuable books of authority are being promulgated at ·intervals,

wh1~q·'iwe can not procure without money. Further, we are ·neglecting
the literary featur~s of Craft facts, together with the thrice enlivening
trend of a traditionally legendary repetition from mouth to ear which
wakes the soul at times to acute retrospection. We do also s'eem to
forget that Freemasonry has ever led civilization's upward and onward
climb. We have also failed to note when in receptive moods how
Queen Elizabeth fo the early sixteenth century put her unqualified
stamp of approval upon a Masonic brand of citizenship in the Mother
Country, so th.at government-whence came all world progress-did
become to be led and controlled by Mason-statesmen.
Freemasonry thus found the lost word of the ages in her symbolism of a triune faith in humankind.

The Grand Master made a verbal re~ort relative to the
Lassen monument, reporting progress.

REPORT OF U. C. L. A. CLUBHOUSE
To the M: .w : .Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Director s of the Masonic Club of the University
of California at Los Angeles fraternally submit their report .for the
year ending October 1, 1930. In ou r report of last year we estimated
the cost of the building together with the site therefor at the sum of
$104, 172.20. It now appears from the Balance Sheet annexed to and
made a part of this report that the total cost of land and building is
$107,271.64. We also estimated the cost of furnishings in the sum of
$19,934.57. Aside from the lighting fixtures for the stage and additional ones for the study rooms, w hich have not as yet been purchased,
the same balance sheet discloses a total of $17,653.18 laid out for that
purpose. There remains in the fund contributed for the erection and
equipment of the clubhouse the sum of $8,457.84, and outstanding in
pledges, $8,089.60. We have thought it best to defer certain impr_o vements until we shall know more concerning the results of the ·pledges
outstanding. It has always been the policy of your Board not to Incur
indebtedness until we had the money on hand to make payment. When
the outstanding pledges shall have been paid we can the more intelligently and economically adjust contemplated improvements and
furnishings. Furth er information concerning the general 'fit1ani:;ial

175

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

situation of the clubhouse is contained in the report of Brother Roger
Prior, certified public accountant, but the foregoing covers' the salient
features.
Grand Lodge appropriated the sum of $9,000 for the purpose of
maintaining the clubhouse, to which should be added the sum of
$152.60, interest earned thereon, and we are happy to report that we
have during the past year been able to operate more economically
than was anticipated. Of the sum set aside for this purpose there
remained on hand as of October 1, $1,063.22. We have so far been able
to economize by the employment of student help as superintendent
nf the building and by no'n-employment of office assistants. Also we
have not felt the advisability until now of increasing the salary of the
resident hostess to the amount estimated, not because she is not fully
competent and capable but rather because during the early part of
the year and the summer session her responsibilities we're not pressing. However, her burdens are greater at this time, and the Board
has increased her salary to the sum of $1800 per year, effective
October 1, 1930. Mrs. Kempton is really an ideal woman, as indicated
by the . fact that many of the students constantly address her as
"Mother Kempton." She seems thoroughly to understand them,
sympathizes with their problems and enjoys their confidence to such
a degree as to make of the whole a very happy family.
General upkeep shows an expenditure in excess of that estimated,
for the reason that it was necessary during the summer to completely
waterproof the building on account of rain driving through some of
the joints between the concrete tile. By contract we are now guaranteed against a repetition of leaks for at least three years.
We estimate the budget for the ensuing year as follows:

General Charges
'r'axes ...........................'. ....................................................... :..............$ 2,700.00
Insurance ................ ............................................................................
530.00
General upkeep ..................................................................................
500.00
Miscellaneous expense ....................................................................
500.00
Newspapers and periodicals............................................................
80.00
Furniture replacement reserve........................................................
500.00
Depreciation of building fund ........:............................................... . 750.00

174

.
Salaries
Resident Hostess ...............: ............... :................................................$ 1,800.00
800.00
Superintendent of building ............................................................. .
300.00
J anitoria1 extra help ..... :.............................. .... ~ .................................. .
750.00
Office assi~tance ................................................ :...............................
250.00
Boo.kkeeping .................................................................................... ..
Service Charges
Heat and Light ....,................... ::.................... ,.....~ ............... :............... :$
Telephones .......... ,.............................. ,............................................. .
Water ................................................... ,.: ........................................... ..

750.00
75.00
60.00

Supplies

~!!it~~e·':::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$
Janitor's ............................................................................................ ..

200.00
50.00
325.00

$10,920.00
It should be noted that during the last year we were not obliged
to pay taxes on the improvements and furniture.
Dedication of Clubhouse
On March 27, just one year to the day after ground was broken
for the structure, the Grand Master, together with other Grand Lodge
officers, dedicated the clubhouse in due and ancient form to the purposes for which it was constructed. The ritual of that ceremony
follows:
The Grand Marshal announced "The Grand Master and Officers
of the Grand Lodge."
GRAND MASTER: We read in the Holy Writings that when all
the work that Solomon made for the house of the Lord was finished,
h~ assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the
chiefs of the fathers of the children of Israel; and then the house
which was erected to God was dedicated in His Holy Name. We
have gathered this evening in imitation of the children of Israel to
dedicate this building, thus perpetuating a custom which has come
clown to us from time immemorial. Among the ancients, every temple,
altar ~nd statue was dedicated to some divinity. The Hebrews extended this ceremony even to their private houses; and it was a
custom in Israel to dedicate a new house to God with prayer, praise
;ind thanksgiving; and this was done in order to secure the Divine
presence and ·blessing; for it was believed that no pious or sensible
man could expect to dwell safely in a house which was not under
the immediate protection of God. They made a distinction between
~onsecration and dedication; for sacred things were both consecrated
and dedicated; while profane things, such as private dwelling houses,
were only dedicated. This distinction has always been observed
;unong nations generally, many of whom (and in the early ages all)
consecrated their churches to the worship of God, but dedicated them
to, or placed them under the especial patronage of, some particular
saint. A similar practice prevails in our Institution; and while we
consecrate our Lodges to the honor and glory of God, we. dedicate

176

l'IlOCEEDlNGS OF THE

them to the memory of the Holy Saints John. Our buildings are
dedicated to the purpose for which they are set apart.
"Masonic Lodge halls are dedicated to Freemasonry, Virtu.e and
Universal Benevolence; and you may be interested in knowing that
this was the form of dedication of the first edifice ever erected as a
Masonic hall of which we have authentic information ; and that the
ceremony of that first dedication in 1774 was in all its essentials
identical with that which will be performed today. To those unmindful
of its symbolism, it will be nothing but an unmeaning form; but it
is in truth and fact, as are all our ceremonies, fraught with significance.
"The Biblical and Masonic elements of consecration are corn,
wine and oil. In devoting anything to religious purposes, the anointing
of oil was considered as a necessary part of the ceremony. The tabernacle in the wilderness, and all its holy vessels, were by God's express
command anointed with oil; and hence 'Free Masons' Lodges, which
are but temples of the Most High, are consecrated to the sacred purposes for which they were built by strewing corn, wine and oil upon
the emblem. The corn alone is carried in a golden pitcher; the wine and
oil being contained in silver vessels. It is to remind us that the first,
as a necessity and the 'staff of life' is of. more importance and more
worthy of honor than the others, which are but comforts. In the
dedication of halls set apart for the uses of Masonry, a procession
forms a part of the ceremony. It will here be omitted, but its symbolism may be explained as a reminder that in the pilgrimage of life,
as each proceeds along the path allotted to him, he should share his
last crust of bread with the hungry, cheer the sorrowful, and pour
the healing oil of consolation into the wounds which sickness has
made in the bodies or affliction has rent in the hearts of his fellow
man. This brief explanation will, we hope, bring a clearer understanding of the significance of the ceremony."
Music (suggestion): "Opening the Gates of the Temple."
The Chairman of the Board of Directors then addressed the
Grand Master as follows:
"Most Worshipful Grand Master, the men of the Craft in the
jurisdiction of California, animated with a desire to promote the honor
and .glory of our ancient Institution, and to establish a home for the
promotion of the mental and moral well-being of the students of
Mas~nic families attending the University of California at Los
Angeles, have erected this edifice for their comfort and care, where
relaxation from the activities of campus life may be found , and where
those who may need consolation or advice may come with full assurance of finding the same amid surroundings touched by the spirit

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

177

and atmosphere of Masonry. The Clubhouse and the plan upon which
it has been constructed having met w ith your approbation, we are
desirous that it be now solemnly dedicated to its uses agreeably to
our ancient form and usage.
"THE GRAND MASTER: Having h eretofore made an inspection,
and the building and the plan upon which it is constructed meeting
with our unqualified approbation, it gives us great pleasure to comply
with the desires of the brethren and to discharge the impor tant and
interesting duty which devolves upon us. I avail myself of th is opportunity to express to the brethren our hearty appreciation of the
enterprising spirit which has actuated them in the erection of this
structure-an edifice which is not only a credit to the F raternity,
but, as well, an ornament to this great seat of learning. In accordance
with the teachings of our Institution it is our duty, before entering
upon any great or importan t undertaking, to invoke the blessing of
God. We will th erefore unite with our Grand Chaplain in an address
to the Throne of Grace.
"GRAND CHAPLAIN: Almighty and Everlasting God, Father of All,
Source of Light an d Love ! Accept, we humbly beseech T hee, this
house which we, Thine unworthy servants, do here and now dedicate
to Thy Holy Name and set apart for the service of the youth who
will find here a sanctuary and a home. Be pleased, 0 O ur Father !
to vouchsafe to this house Thy perpetual blessing and favor. Cause
the light of Thine adorable spirit to illuminate the minds of the
students who will here congregate. May the praise, the homage, the
thanksgiving of grateful worshippers before Thine a ltar continue t o
ascend within these walls. Pour u pon us, and all the children of the
members of our Mystic Craft, whithersoever dispersed, the r ich blessing of Thy providence. Fill our hearts with reverence for Thee; with
an affection for T hy divine Goodness; and with love for our fellow
men. Make us faithful to our friends and charitable to our enemies.
And in the dedication of this edifice enable us to prove to mankind
by our actions that we are ·s incerely ded icated to our God, a nd to the
relief of our fellow creatures. Hear us, 0 Lord and our God, not for
our merit but because Thy Mercy endureth forever. Amen." (ChoirThe Lord's Prayer).
"GRAND MASTER: Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master, make
announcement to the Brethren, and to all persons present, t he name
we do most honor as Freemasons, and declare the first purpose to
which this building is to be dedicated.
"DEPUTY GRAND MASTER: Most W orshipful Grand Master, the
first duty of Masons is to God, because He is the Creator and Ruler
of all things and the Giver of All Good. His name should never be
absent from our minds, nor should it ever be taken in vain ; all our

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

doings should be with an eye single to His Glory, His praise and
His approbation. And as all our ceremonies are intended to promote
a reverence for Him, and to impress upon our novitiates the duties
owing by man to Him, this building should be, in accordance with
· time-honored custom, dedicated to its work of benificence in the
name of the Great Jehovah. In the dedication of edifices it has been
the immemorial custom to scatter Corn as an emblem of nourishment.
I therefore present this vessel of Corn to be employed by you agreeably to ancient usage.
"GRAND MASTER (calling up officers): In the name of the Great
Jehovah, to whom be all honor and glory, I do solemnly dedicate
this house to the mental and moral comfort of the students of the
University. (Pours Corn.) May the Corn of nourishment ever be
vouchsafed to all who shall gather within these walls. Right Worshipful Senior Grand Warden, to what other purposes may this building
be dedicated, and in whose name?
"SENIOR GRAND WARDEN: Most Worshipful Grand Master, from
the earliest days it has been the custom to dedicate temples and
homes in the name of the Great Jehovah, but the custom of our
Fraternity als<J obtains to dedicate them as well in the names of the
two patron saints of Masonry, Saint John the Evangelist and Saint ·
John the Baptist, to emphasize the teachings of Freemasonry and
to inculcate the attributes of Virtue, Truth and Benevolence. I
therefore present to you this vessel of ~ine, the emblem of refreshment, to be used by you on this occasion agreeably to ancient usage.
"GRAND MASTER: In the names of the Holy Saints John, I d()
now solemnly dedicate this building to Virtue and Truth. (Pours
wine.) May the Fountain of all Truth refresh those who shall here
gather, and vouchsafe to them continued hope. Right Worshipful
Junior Warden, make known unto the brethren, and all other persons
present, the significance of the third element of ·consecration and.
dedication.
·
"JUNIOR GRAND w ARDEN: The .P salmist hath said 'God hath
anointed thee with the oil of gladness.' The tabernacle in the wilderness, and all its · holy vessels were, by God's express command,
anointed with oil; Aaron and his two sons were set apart for the
priesthood with the same ceremony; and the prophets and Kings of
Israel were consecrated to their offices by the same rite. Wherefore
we do pour the healing oil of friendship and affection into the wounds
which affliction hath rent in the hearts of those who may be in
distress. Within these walls the youth will be taught the virtues of
Brotherly Love and Relief; they will learn the doctrine that 'of one
blood made He all the nations of the earth,' and that we are all
children alike of one Father and members of one family. Even as

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

179

our first Grand Master, Solomon King of Israel, in his prayer at the
dedication of the great temple, invoked the divine blessing not only
upon the children of Israel, but as well upon all the strangers from
other lands, so Freemasons have . ever dedicated their temples and
memorials to Universal Benevolence in the name of the entire Fraternity. I now present to you, to be used according to our ancient
custom, this vessel of oil, an e~blem 'of that joy which we aim to
diffuse throughout the world, and which should animate every bosom
on the completion of this important undertaking.
"GRAND MASTER: In the nam e of the entire Fraternity,' wheresoever dispersed, I do now solemnly dedicate this house to Universal
Benevolence. (Pours oil.) May the oil of joy be .diffused over the
hearts of all who may enter here, and may our Fraternity be inspired
to such deeds of benevolence as shall prove to them a constant joy.
(Seats officers.)
Music: Old Hundred.
"GRAND MASTER: Brother Grand Marshal, you will make proclamation.
"GRAND MARSHAL: By order of the Grand Master, I do hereby
proclaim that the building in which we are now assembled has been
dedicated to the purposes of Freemasonry in Due and Ancient Form.
All persons interested will take. notice and govern themselves accordingly.
"GRAND CHAPLAIN : And may the Lord, the giver of every good and
perfect gift, bless the brethren here assembled in all their lawfur
undertakings; bless the young men and women who will here
assemble, and grant to every one of them, in needful supply, the
Corn Of Nourishment, the Wine of Refreshment, and the Oil of Joy.
Amen." (Oration.)

It is interesting to observe that this dedication immediately preceded the dedication of the campus of the university, and was participated in by the director and vice president of the University, Dr.
Ernest C. Moore, who, although not a member of the fraternity, paid
tribute to our contribution to the cause of education generally, and
specifically to the mental and moral welfare of the students by the
erection and maintenance of the building. He spoke as follows:
"It is to me a rare privilege to have been with you as you went
through your moving ritual. This great order which is doing this
· thing today seems to me to stand for three . things. I am very glad to
stand with you for all of them. The fir st is construction. We must
build homes in which to live; temples in which to worship; schools
t o be educated in. I understand that this beautiful place has been
built that young hopes may flourish, that they may be lifted up, may

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mount up on wings as eagles mount toward the sky. To have them
helped to do that will be a great thing in years to come. The people
of this great commonwealth of California have built a University
just across the street. This Masonic house will do a most helpful
work for that University. The second thing in connection with this
order is its love. of education. Masons champion the work of the
schools everywhere, and to one who has devoted his whole life to
the service of education it is an inexpressible privilege to welcome
this effort on your part to be of assistance in the work of the U niversity. The third thing that you fight for is our country. Education
would be impossible but for the country which makes it possible, and
in supporting our country we support all the good things of this life.
Most Worthy Grand Master, it has been a great privilege to be here
today and a great pleasure to see this fine building. We shall think
of you as fellow educators and ask you to pray for the welfare of the
University as you do for our country and for men."
It has been found advisable during the year for the council to
propose and the Board to approve amendments to their by-laws, by
which the four constituent organizations are welded into one large
organization while preserving the identity of the four within the
larger. Under the present system the one large organization is responsible to a great degree for all student activities, and we find more
harmony and efficiency existing. In order that you may know the
approximate size of this organization we are informed by Mrs. Kempton that at the close of the college year in June they had a membership of 750, the greater number of whom were active. And to more
accurately convey the use to which the clubhouse is put her report
also shows that from March 4 to June 16, 15,048 contacts were made,
or in other words that an average of 140 students per day made use
of the clubhouse. This number is exclusive of visitors. While the
Wednesday afternoon informal dances, with an. average attendance
of 250, accounts in a measure for the use of the facilities offered, it
will be readily appreciated that it fails to account for 'the total. Mrs.
Kempton also reports that there is an ever increasing use of the
study and conference rooms, the students expressing a preference
for the peace and quiet thereof. Another thought that will convey to
you the value of this undertaking is this: we have had instances
where students coming from the east have been directed by railroad
officials to the clubhouse and who have found themselves immediately
in the hands of sympathetic and helpful friends instead of being alone
in a strange land. As further evidence of the part you are playing in
endeavoring to mold the character of these young men and women it
should be stated that the clubhouse has been recognized by the as-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

181

sociated women students as a legitimate student activity, and the
president of the Council has been invited to participate in the deliberations of that body.
The following gifts are hereby acknowledged:
Grand Chapter Order of Eastern Star: A very beautiful Sohm er
grand concert piano, which was formally presented by the Grand
Worthy Matron, Myra Moyse, on the evening of September 28.
Bro. Ben Wright, 15 books.
Bro. Frank X. Pfaffinger, 87 books.
Bro. Bruce Bassett and daughter, 20 vols. reference works.
Bro. Robt. W. Campbell, $200 for library books.
Bro. Stotsky, electric desk clock.
American Association of University Professors, two bridge tables.
Stewart Wolfenden, portraits of Geo. Washington and Abraham
Lincoln.
Bro. R. J. Dodge, walnut chair.
Five vacancies occurred on the Board during May, and the Grand
Master filled the offices as follows: Past Grand Master Will H.
Fisher, Bros. Frank X. Pfaffinger, Chas. H. Dodds, Elmer E. Beckman and Marco R. Newmark. The other Board members are as follows: Ira F. Thompson, Chairman; Perry W. Weidner, Treasurer;
Walter L. Berger, Thomas B. Buchan, William S. McFadden, John
Stuart Ross, C. H. Robison, Clyde C. Shoemaker, Dana R. Weller
and Ben C. Wright.
Special notice should be given to the message sent by the Grand
Master to the Masters of the Lodges throughout the jurisdiction,
calling attention to the work of the clubhouses at Berkeley and Westwood, Los Angeles. And aside from the recommendation that provision be made at this communication for maintenance during the
year 1932-1933, we desire to ask the brethren herein assembled to
bear in mind the words of the Grand Master and direct the children
of their members to these Masonic institutions. In this way only
can we render the maximum of service to those in need of counsel,
arlvice and the companionship of others Masonically minded.
Fraternally submitted by order of the Board of Directors:
IRA F. THOMPSON, Chairman.

The report was adopted, except as to matters therein
contained relating to finance, and they were referred to the
committee on Finance.

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF U. C. BERkELEY CLUBHOUSE
To the. M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of
California, Inc., submits herewith its report of the affairs of the
institution, together with its financial statement. The latter is embodied in the report of N ormaIJ MacEachen, certified public accountant of San Francisco, who has audited the books of the corporation
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1930. [Exhibit A attached
hereto.] The report, together with exhibits consisting of balance
sheet as of said date and statement of income maintenance expense
for the fiscal year, has been submitted to the Finance Committee of
Grand Lodge for its examination and consideration.
It is reported by Mr. Mac Each en that all cash received was
properly deposited in bank, and all disbursements were supported by
approved vouchers. He also reports that "the books continue to be
neatly and accurately kept and all information requested was promptly
furnished."
The generous provision made by Grand Lodge at its session one
year ago not only made possible the payment, on October 28, 1929,
of the balance of $9,350.90 due on the unsecured note held by the
First National Bank in Berkeley, but provided the greater portion
of the current operating expenses for the year. In order to completely
meet the last item, however, it was necessary for the trustees to
withdraw $1,300 from the Depreciation Fund, with the result that
the trustees have not now on hand any amount to meet those
necessary items of depreciation which are apt to be required at any
time, in view of the fact that the clubhouse and its equipment have
reached the stage where some depreciation and replacement must, of
necessity, be a matter for consideration.
Fire insurance in the amount of $90,000 is carried on the clubhouse building, and $12,500 on furniture, fixtures and equipment.
Workmen's compensation and public liability insurance are also
carried.
The Trustees have prepared and submit herewith Exhibit B, an
itemized budget for the ensuing fiscal year amounting to $12,010.
Activities have been conducted at the clubhouse during the year
with the same efficient management by the hostess, Mrs. J. H. Quinn,
under the direction of the executive committee of the Board of Trustees. Peace and harmony have reigned in every department of the
work, and the influence of the institution on the student body has been
probably greater during the period than in previous years because of
the fact that the clubhouse has become an established and accepted in-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

183

,.titution in the activities of the University. Its position in the affairs
of the student body and of the individual students who are so fortunate
as to come within its influence continues to rec~ive commendation
from the president and other officials of the University. The number
of those availing themselves of the opportunities for social activities
and personal use of the clubhouse has increased during the year, as
our Masonic brethren throughout the State are coming to realize
more and more how helpful the clubhouse and those in charge there
can be to the young men and young women attending the University.
Your Board of Trustees, therefore, asks that its report be received
and approved, and .that the present generous provision for the support and maintenance of the Masonic Clubhouse at the University of
California be continued.
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC CLUB
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, INC.
WILLIAM H. WASTE, President,
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS, Secretai·y,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON

w ALDO F. POSTEL

MILTON T. FARMER

GEORGE F. RonDEN

WILLIAM P. FILMER

WILLIAM A. SHERMAN

\VILLIAM B. HERMS

Audit Report
The total receipts and disbursements of the Club for the year
ended September 30, 1930, are shown in the following condensed
summary:
Cash in hank ancl on hand October 1, 1929 ....

$ 2,047.16

RECEIPTS:

Donations by Grand Lodge, and Clubhouse
receipts-Exhibit "B" .................................. ..
Proceeds from sale of chairs .......................... ..
Total Receipts .................................... ..

$ 17,115.05
360.00
17,475.05

$ 19,522.21

184

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PIWCE.l<JDJNGS OF THE

8,752.27

Fixed Assets : Land ............................ :....................................... $
Building ................................................................................... .
Furniture, fixtures and equipment ....................................... .
Landscape gardening ............................................................

17,616.80
109,372.48
17,454.34
339.05

109.80

Total .............................................. ,...............................$

144,782.67

DISBURSEMENTS:

Maintenance expense-Exhibit " B"................
Accounts payable September 30, 1929, paid
during year under review................................

$

$
Less: Accounts payable September 30, 1930 ..
$
Insurance premiums paid but not expired ... .
Additions to Club equipment ........................... .
Note payable to First National Bank in
Berkeley paid in full... .................................... .

8,862.07
109.80

During the year under review, the asset furniture, fixtures and
equipment was reduced by the net amount of $344.81, as follows:
Proceeds from sale of chairs ............ :....................................... $
360.00
Lrss: Sundry equipment purchases .................•......... .'.............
15.19

8,752.27
482.00
15.19
9.350.90
18,600.36

Total Disbursements ..........................
Cash in bank and on hand September 30,
1930 ····································································

$

921.85

All cash received, as shown by the cash book, was properly deposited in bank, and all disbursements were supported by approved
vouchers.
The balance on note payable of $9,350.90 was paid in full to the
First National Bank in Berkeley on October 28, 1929.
Comments on Balance Sheet Items
Assets
Cash in bank and on hand .... ............................
First Nutional Bank in Berkeley and
Bank of America of California,
Berkeley Branch:
Commercial account....................................
Savings accounts ......................................... .
Petty Cash ................. ~ ................................ .
Total ......................................................

$

Net reduc tion in furniture , fi.i-tures and equipment .... $

344.81

Deferred : consist of:
Organization and campaign expenses incurred in
raising funds for construction of Club house .............. $
Unexpired insurance premiums .. '. ................. .................... ,.. .

16,547.40
586.50

Total ........................ ......................... .°!.·•..•..•.•...•............. $

17,133.90

There were no changes in the organization and campaign expenses
during the year ended September 30, 1930.
Liabilities and Capital
Accounts Payable ........................................................................ $
109.80
Represents current operating expenses unpaid at September 30,
1930.
Capital and Surplus ................ ........................... .
$ 162,728.62

921.85
Balance October 1, 1929 .... ............................ $
Deduct: Uncollectible subscriptionswritten off..............................................

$

$

722.01
174.84
25.00

154,907.99
542.15

$ 154,365.84
Add: Excess of income over maintenance expense year ended September 30, 1930-Exhibit "B"..................

8,362.78

Total ................................................ $

162,728.62

921.85

Cash in bank was verified by confirmation received from the bank.
Cash on hand was verified by actual count.

185

186

I'HOCEEDINGS OF THl<J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General

observance. We mention only two such observances as illustrative of a
large number. In one community there were represented on the Com- .
mittee of Arrangements (in addition to the Masonic Lodges and the
Eastern Star Chapter) the Parent Teacher Association, the City Council,
the local American Legion Post, the School Board and schools, the
Women's Club, the Chamber of Commerce, the Realty Board, the National Business and Professional Women's Club, the Lions Club and the
Kiwanis Club ; and in the other the meeting was sponsored by the following organizations (in addition to the Masonic Lodges) : West HChamber of Commerce, H- Business Men's Association, G- Heights
Men's Club, Church Parenthood Federation of H-, West H- Rotary
Club, West H- Kiwanis Club, Federated Church Brotherhood of H-,
Greater H- Taxpayers' Association, West H- Realty Board, HWomen's Club and West H- \Vomen's Club.
With one or two unfortunate exceptions, due possibly to a misunderstanding, the Lodges everywhere this year apparently received the wholehearted cooperation of all the coordinate bodies of Masonry, and also of
the Order of Eastern Star, and similarly allied organizations, and of the
Order of De Molay. In this connection it may be perhaps remembered
that in the past there has occasionally been complaint made that visits
during Public Schools Week of the Grand Matron of the Order of Eastern
Star militated against the success of our observance in certain communities.
The explanation given was that the official visits in that Order, unlike
those in the Grand Commandcry, Grand Chapter and Grand Council, are
arranged before the date of the observance of Public Schools Week is
announced. It is pleasing to your committee to be able to report that this
year the Grand Matron before determining on her itinerary communicated
with the Grand Master and, ascertaining the date of the observance, arranged to make no official visit during Public Schools Week; and that
her probable successor has already advised our committee of her intention
to do likewise. Any local Chapter of the Order of Eastern Star which
this year held a meeting, or gave an entertainment, which interfered with
Public Schools Week in any community did so in contravention of the
wishes and desires of the Grand Matron.

Fire insurance in the amount of $90,000.00 is carried on the Club
building, and $12,500.00 on furniture, fixtures and equipment. Workmen's compensation and public liability insurance are also car~ied.
The books continue to be neatly and accurately kept, and all information requested was promptly furnished.
NORMAN MAcEACHEN

Report adopted except those portions relating to the
financial affairs of the Club, and they were referred to the
Committe on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK ON ELEVENTH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE
SAN FRANCrsco, October 14, 1930.
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge Ji. & A. M. of California:
Again this year, as has been the case each year for several years past,
your Committee on Public Schools vVeek is able to report that from
every point of view the latest observance was the most successful ever held.
Last year the reports received from the lodges might have seemed to
indicate that the peak had been reached; but even the extraordinary success of the Tenth Annual Observance was eclipsed this year. In one of
the first reports received, the Master in commenting on the result of his
observance described a situation which other reports indicated was general throughout the state when he said:
"The interest, with the consequent attendance at the public
meeting, is increasing yearly until now there remains no covered gathering place of sufficient size to accommodate the crowd."
There were several reports in which the belief was expressed that to
accommodate the increasing attendance it would be necessary to hold more
than one public meeting. Never before was it so evident that what in its
origin was a purely Masonic event has become in the true sense of th~
phrase "a community affair"; and an extremely popular one.
While everywhere the Masonic Lodge, or the Masters and Wardens
Association, was of course the motivating factor in the observance, there
were few communities, and those only very small ones, in which active
cooperation was not received from organizations such as the Parent
Teacher Association, the American Legion, Chambers of Commerce,
Service Clubs and other fraternal and civic organizations. In some instances these were all represented on the committee through which the
arrangements were made, and in others they joined in sponsoring the

187

Local Posts of the American Legion, as would be expected, have
always when requested cooperated in the observance; but this year for
the first time there was a pledge of support by the State Department. In
a letter received from the Department Commander, Clarence L. Kincaid,
he wrote:
"You may depend upon our complete and wholehearted support in the movement. We of the American Legion, are deeply
interested in every movement which has as its objective the
furtherance of the public school educational system."

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

As has been the case for several years, the California Parent Teacher
Association joined wholeheartedly in the observance. In a public announcement Mrs. Robert L. Cardiff, the President, said:
"In California there are 181,000 members of the California
Congress of Parents and Teachers . . . . This group is solidly
back of the public schools and actively supporting Public Schools
Week."
Further evidence of the recognition of the observance as a community
affair is furnished by the official· proclamations which were issued. First
and foremost, of course, was the fine proclamation issued by Governor
Young in which he stated that although he had theretofore steadfastly
declined to issue proclamations with respect to all celebrations or observances of special days or weeks, except for such nationally observed
holidays as Thanksgiving, Armistice Day and the like, he felt constrained
to call public attention to the Eleventh Annual Observance of Public
Schools Week; and commending its purpose, he urged the people of the
State to avail themselves of the opportunity that would be afforded during
that week to obtain first hand information of the methods, aims, purposes
and achievements of the modern school.
In addition to the Governor's proclamation, and as the result of a
suggestion emanating from the League of California Municipalities, there
were proclamations issued by the Mayors and City Councils of nearly one
hundred municipalities. The Superintendent of Public Instruction also
issued a circular letter addressed to all Superintendents, County, City and
District, and to school principals calling their attention to the observance,
and expressing the hope that this year every school in the state would
actively participate.
In our report last year we referred to the great interest that is now
being evinced by the school people. The cordial, hearty and extremely
valuable cooperation received from them would of itself indicate that
those best qualified to form an opinion were convinced of the worth of
Public Schools Week to the school system of this state; but if anything
more were needed, it is found in the reference to the observance made by
the Superintendent of Public Instruct.ion, as Director of Education, in his
April report to the Governor's Council. The following is a quotation from
Superintendent Kersey's report:
"The annual observance of California Public Schools Week
has just closed. The week of April 21 to 25, in which this observance was held, provided opportunities for closer cooperation
and mutual understanding between the public schools and the
people of the state. Throughout California public mass meetings,
luncheon club programs, special columns in local newspapers,
demonstrations of teaching and learning procedures and activities,

am! school-room visitations have all served to bring before the
the people of this state the great service performed by the public
schools.

188

189

"It is fitting that a week should be devoted each year to a
clearer understanding of the needs, purposes and ideals of our
public school system. The averagt parent and citizen is most interested .to know just what the children are doing daily in the
classroom. Such an observance provides opportunities for more
accurate information concerning the schools. The underlying purpose of the observance has been to present the regular activities
and the normal school life to the patrons of the public schools.
"The value of California Public Schools Week can probably
be best measured in terms of the continued support of our public
schools by the citizens of each community. It is hoped that California Public Schools Week will continue from year to year to
oontribute its due service toward the maintenance of California's
educational leadership."
In this connection, in passing, we may refer to a signed statement of a
City Superintendent of Schools published in a newspaper in his city which
always has been particularly generous in the amount of space devoted to
the observance. He said :
"The public schools arc so frequently asked to lend themselves to so many different weeks and days in the interest of so
many different interests and events that it is indeed a fine thing
to have a week set aside by a great organization outside the
schools in the interest of the schools themselves.
"So Public Schools Week sponsored by the Masonic Grand
Lodge is worthy of great commendation."
Expressions similar to that just referred to appear in scores of editorials in newspapers thtoughout the state. The following are typical of
many which might be quoted:
"Weeks are set apart to various institutions for publicity
purposes. Some of them are well worth while. None of them is
more so than that which commands the attention of the people
this week as Public Schools Week."
"This is Public Schools W eek---one of the special 'weeks'
that is not foolish or unnecessary. It serves a fine useful purpose.
It is a week set aside for the establishment of a closer contact, a
better understanding, between the public and the public schools.

mo

PROCEEDINGS OF THI!;
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"That understanding is essential. It is essential also to keep
in mind that education is the first business of Americans ; and to
remember the wisdom of Napoleon who said, 'Education is the
first business of any republic.'
"Public Schools Week helps us to remember that."
"Next week is Public Schools Week. So many weeks have
been set aside for special observance that the thing has become
somewhat monotonous; but this is a week that should appeal to at
least every parent and it would be good business if everyone gave
it some attention; for the schools of the Nation are its hope for
the future."
In our report of the Ninth Annual Observance we made mention in
detail of the extraordinary amount of newspaper publicity that had been
received, and in referring to this last year we called attention "to the fact
that the press of the state, both metropolitan and rural, had been even
more generous in the amount of space devoted to school matters, and to
awakening the interest of the people in their schools; but never before was
so much attention given to the observance by the newspapers as was
evident this year. It was what theatrical people term a "wonderful
press"; and a striking feature of the publicity was the number and extent
of the editorials in addition to the space in the news columns. The remarkable publicity received is evidenced by the fact that the first news column
story sent out, the Grand .Master's Proclamation, had a return of one
hundred and twenty-four clippings. Other news stories such as endorsements by the President of the State P. T. A., the Commander of the
American Legion, the President of the California Teachers' Association,
and the Superintendent of Public Instruction received almost as much
publicity.
The editorials covered not only the observance itself, but all phases of
the public school system including taxation for school purposes, new
buildings, trends of education and similar topics; and it was extremely
valuable not merely because it awakened the interest of the people in
their schools and thus furthered the purpose of Public Schools Week, but
also because it gave assurance to the school people of the great interest
and concern of the public in the work in which they are engaged.
Wherever visits to the schools constituted a feature of the observance
the people were urged to avail themselves of the opportunity presented.
The following is quoted from what might be said to be a typical editorial
on this phase of the observance :
"Next week is Public Schools Week in California and a fine
time for patrons of our schools to learn more of what goes on
inside the classroom. The public realizes that it has good school

191

buildings, but most of us take the · actual work of teaching, the.
real school, as a matter of course.... Next week is a good time
to get acquainted with the work of our teachers, to voice a bit of
encouragement and appreciation cif the institution which is preparing our children to take thefr places in the world. It is a good
time to quit finding fault and to give recognition to the merits
of the public school system, an institution which is directly responsible iri a large measure for our national progress."
No inconsiderable part of the newspaper publicity received was due
to the contact made by the local publicity committees with the newspapers
published in their communities. In accordance with the request made
by our Director of Publicity to the Master of every Lodge, there were
forty-nine local publicity committees in touch with him. Last year there
were but four. I t is hoped that next year will show a corresponding increase in the number of local committees which will apply for and receive
material which they may furnish their local newspapers in addition to
material sent them by our Director of Publicity.
In concluding our reference to the publicity, mention should be made
of the fact that in some instances the newspaper clippings attached to
the reports, in compliance with the request made by our committee, were
more valuable in indicating the result of an observance than was the
report itself. For instance, the Master of one Lodge was apparently a
little doubtful of the success of his observance which he said was "only
fair" because the attendance at the public meeting was not as large as he
had expected; but the newspaper clippings attached to his report furnished
evidence of the great amount of publicity the observance. had received and
which must have re~ulted in focqsing the attention of the people on their
schools, and also showed that during the week a .large number of people
had visited the schools and thus receiv.ed first-hand information of what
they were doing. It was thus apparent that the real purpose of the observance had been achieved and the Master's doubt of its success was really
without warrant even though the public meeting was not as largely attended as he thought it should have been.
No one who has not had the privilege of carefully reading the reports
from the Lodges can have an adequate conception of the growth and development of this movement. Perhaps one of the most interesting things is
to compare the reports from year to year from the same Lodge, and to
note . the comments of the different Masters. For instance, this year a
Master. reported that his community was so small and his members so
scattered that he did not believe he "could hold a successful observance·
but our files include a report from that Lodge showing that a very sue~
cessful observance had been theretofore held following a personal letter
written the Master that year expressing the hope that he would be among

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

192

193

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

those to whom especial credit would be due for success achieved in spite
of the obstacles confronting them.
It is perhaps not generally known that as the reports from the Lodges
are received they arc carefully analyzed, particularly those indicating that
the observance had not been as successful as was expected. If we find, as
we usually do, that the suggestions made by our committee have not been
followed, we immediately write the Master while the matter is still fresh
in his mind not, as we are careful to explain, by way of criticism of anything done or left undone, but solely with the desire to be helpful and with
the hope that any mistake which possibly may have been made will be
ti1ereafter avoided; and we always ask that our letter be handed the one
1vho will be in charge of the ob, ervance the following year for his guidance in making his arrangements.
Of course we do not ordinarily write Masters reporting even extraordinarily successful meetings. That would be impracticable if not
physically impossible. Occasionally, however, we make an exception
where a successful meeting has been held following failures in the past,
or where, as was the case this year, some little Lodge in a remote community ·holds its first observance and the Master reports that the members
now know that something can be done in a small community and that next
year he expects to .have the .support of other organizations.
As .we have intimated, our letters arc usually prompted by our belief
t}iat the failure to hold a successful observance may have been due to the
fact .that the suggestions made by our committee have not been followed.
One letter written this year was iu acknowledgment of a unique report
of one of the most successful observances anywhere held. The Master
reported that no endeavor had been made to obtain the cooperation of the
civic organizations in the community, nor had any special effort been made
to obtain newspaper publicity, nor to otherwise insure a large attendance;
and the reason he gave for not doing this was that he knew that if any
special effort were made they would be unable to handle the crowd although the auditorium in which the meeting was held is the largest in that
section of the state. That he was entirely correct is evidenced by the fact
that they had a capacity house with one thousand seated and five hundred
standing. The most extraordinary thing in connection with the whole
observance is that the attendance of fifteen hundred reported is equal to
the total population of that community. The Master reported that some of
those In attendance came from a distance as far as twenty miles, notwithstanding the fact that they had stormy weather on the night the meeting
was held. In view of the fact that the Master had reported that with
concentrated effort they could easily fill an auditorium twice as large as
theirs, we suggested that he might consider the advisability of holding

two meetings-one in which the program would be presented by the pupils
of only the elementary schools and the other with the program furnished
by the high schools.
Needless to say we are always glad to receive from any source suggestions or constructive criticism; and always when the matter is brought
t~ our attention in a special communication, and frequently when it appears in a report, acknowledgment is made in a personal letter. Mention
may here be made of a complaint received this year with respect to the
time of our observance. It was unfortunate, of course, that the date fixed
conflicted with the Easter school vacation in some communities, but it was
practically unavoidable. We have learned by experience that the fourth
week in Apr4'1 is the time best suited for all the school districts in the state.
At an earlier date the weather in some communities is inclement and a
later date brings the observance too close to the summer vacation. This
was the first time since the date was fixed for April that the Easter vacation in any way interfered; and it was due only to the fact that this year,
as will be remembered, Easter came very late. We had at first thought of
changing the date, but the Superintendent of Public Instruction, with
whom the chairman of our committee conferred, advised that no change
be made, calling attention to the fact that the Easter vacation was not observed during the same week in all the school districts. In all cases in
which it was asked, permission was given the Lodge by the Grand Master
to hold the observance during the week preceding or following the date
fixed. It will be noted of course that the conflict in dates was with respect
to only the Easter vacation, and not with the observance of Easter which
had been concluded the week before the date of our observance.
Among other suggestions received was one to the effect that the Fraternity might well consider the idea of not confining its efforts in behalf
of the public school system merely to the observance of Public Schools
Week, and that each Lodge might have a Public Schools Week Committee whose efforts should not be confined to a particular period, but extending throughout the year. It had been our intention to present these
suggestions with comment thereon in this report, but for the reason
hereinafter stated consideration thereof perhaps will be better postponed.
It has been our practice in thti past to include in these reports detailed
references to selected observances (without naming or otherwise identifying them) as suggestions of what might be done in other communities. In
some instances, the references were with respect to the manner in which
the arrangements had been made, and in others to the nature of the program. Most frequently it was where an especially successful observance
had been held ·in the face of what had been believed were insurmountable
obstacles. .Our hope was that the Master who received the report would
hand it to his successor for his guidance and that the necessity of issuing

195

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALJl<'ORNIA

a Bulletin of SUilfCRtions each year would thus be avoided. It appears,
however, th11t thiR hu not been done ; and it has become apparent that not
infrequently those in charge of an observance are entirely without knowledge of tht' information contained in these reports. We are therefore of
the opinion that perhaps it will be well for the committee next year to
issue a Bulletin of Suggestions with the first notice sent out. We shall
therefore confine this report in the main to only general statements.
As is always the fact,· the most gratifying reports were those from
communities in which for the first time a successful observance had been
held. One of these was from a comparatively large city where the results
theretofore had never been anything like commensurate with the earnest
endeavor which had been made. The Masters of the Lodges had become
discouraged and were disinclined to essay an undertaking which seemed
foredoomed to failure. With that tine spirit, however, which animates the
Masons of that community an especial effort was put forth this year;
and the result was an extraordinarly successful observance which delighted everyone and ·especially the City Superintendent of Schools. One
of the reasons, by the way, heretofore given for lack of success was that
the Committee of Arrangements had not received from the school people
the support they felt they had a right to· e:x:pect. This year there was not,
and could not have been, any such complaint. Nowhere else was there
tirter cooperation received from the school people. This was the last of a
group of three cities which for one reason or another seemed unable for
several years to hold a. successful observance. As has been heretofore
reported, success first came to one of the others four years ago and to the
third three years ago; and in both these .cities, as we feel certain will be
the case in the one to which special reference has just been made, each
succeeding year has added to the success theretofore achieved.
We may now confidently assert that there is not a large community in
the state, and very few small ones, where Public Schools Week is not now
successfully observed. Indeed we think it is not too much to say that with
the exception of Independence Day, and of course Thanksgiving and
Christmas, there is probably not another anniversary which is so generally
observed everywhere throughout California as is Public Schools Weck.
In the smaller communities the public meeting continues to be the
main, and in some instances the only, feature of the observance. This,
it will be remembereo, was the original form of our observance. The trend,
however (referred to in our report two years ago), in the .d irection of
having the public meeting only one of the features of the observance has
continued; and this year was particularly evident. Instances in which the
observance extends over the entire week have become so general as to no
longer occasion comment. The public meetings are only incidental features
of a week's program which includes visits to the schools with practical

demonstrations of the actual work being done, exhibits of school work of
all sorts and kinds, some of which are extremely elaborate, pageants presented by school children exemplifying school objectives, and special programs appropriate to Public Schools Week at the meetings of the service,
and other luncheon clubs.
Visits to the schools with a demonstration of the modern methods by
which the so-called fundamentals are taught, and with the opportunity to
learn at first hand something of what is being done in social studies, and
to meet the school faculty, apparently received more newspaper notice
than any other feature of an observance; and no better method could be
devised for insuring that close contact between the schools and the public
wpich is of course one of the primary purposes of Public Schools Week.
The following is a quotation from an editorial with reference to a program
of that sort:
"One of the outstanding achievements of the week was the
closer understanding between those who conduct the affairs of our
schools and the patrons thereof. Meetings like that of Thursday
night make history in school work and likewise encourage to
greater efforts in the efficient education of the youth. Those
responsible· for the observance of Public Schools Weck in - - are to be congratulated."
As we have repeatedly said in these reports, we are steadfast in the
belief that there is no town nor hamlet in California having a public school,
and where the~e is located a Masonic Lodge, which cannot hold a successful observance of Public Schools Week. It is, however, undoubtedly true
that there are certain very small communities where the conditions are not
favorable for a public observance of any sort. It is in these communities,
however, that there is the greatest need for such a movement as that in
which we are engaged. Due to our traditional form of school administration with the district as the unit, those who need the most receive the
least. It is in the remote, sparsely settled community with the little rural
school, that the teacher and children need most the sympathy, aid and encouragement which result from the observance of Public Schools Week.
There is here no magnificently appointed auditorium, no well equipped
gymnasium, no domestic science nor manual training class. Nothing but
a bare room with the teacher and a handful of children who are handicapped in the race for life by reason of the fact that they did not happen
to be born in a community providing those things of which they are deprived, but to which they are no less entitled than are their more fortunate
brothers and sisters. Here is a fine opportunity for our great Fraternity;
and we· must measure up to it. · Our Committee is especially desirous of
being of service ; and we urge the Master of any Lodge in such a neigh-

194

PHOCEEDINGB OF' 'l'HE

196

borhood as we have described to make a special request, and at an early
date, for such suggestions as we might be able to make by reason of our
experience.
It is glorious, of course, to feel that one has had a part in an observance of such magnitude as has attracted the attention of the people
of a large city, with encomiums from the press and the plaudits of a fine,
rich, well-organized school depart~ent that is appreciative of the be~efits
which have come to them, but for lack of which they would not have
materially suffered. It would be, however, a far greate~ satisfaction for
the Master of some little Lodge in a community such as we have described to realize that through his efforts, and those of his brethren, with
such other assistance as he might have secured, the children of that little
rural school had come to realize that they, too, were objects of keen
interest and public attention, and that in the recognition and appreciation of their accomplishments they, too, had been encouraged to a
renewed effort that might not have been induced through mere school
routine. Grand Lodge will do its part; but the burden of the work must
perforce be borne by the Masters of these little Lodges. There has come
to them the challenge of childhood. How they meet it will determine their
claim to be deemed worthy of the leadership with which- they have been
entrusted.
The Fraternity may be justly proud of what it has accomplished in
instituting, and continuing to foster, Public Schools Week. There is, however, more to do than has yet been done; and the task we have undertaken
wiU not be finished until we shall have done all that we can to secure for
all the children of all the people an education appropriate to, and commensurate with, the demands of the age in which we live, and to provide
equal opportunities for all of them.
All of which is fraternally submitted.
ROBERT A. ODELL,

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

JOHN B. BEMAN,

WALTER L. BACHRODT,

L. E. CHENOWETH,

ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,

A. R. CLIFTON,

Roy W. CLOUD,

DR. WALTER V. GOODFELLOW,

WILL CROCKET,

F. A. HENDERSON'
WALTER R. HEPNER,
J. L. HousE,

w. E. GIVENS,

ELIAS E. ELLISON,
JOSEPH M. GWINN,

]AMES T. MONTANA,

0. S. HUBBARD,

CHARLES E. TEACH,

GEORGE

c. JENSEN,

w. w. TRITT,

. WESLEY W. KERGAN,

WILLIAM T. WHEELING,

VAUGHAN MAcCAUGHEY.

Report adopted as read.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

197

MEMORIAL SERVICES
An hour was now devoted to services in memory of those
members of Grand Lodge who, in the year past, have joined
the innumerable throng of mortals in "realms beyond the
sky.':
Organ solo-"Abendlied"-Schumann-Grand Organist.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
"Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the
ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat
of the scornful.
"But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his law doth
he meditate day and night.
"And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that
bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither;
and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.
"For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous; but the way
of the ungodly shall perish."
Since the report of this committee at the last session of Grand
Lodge, fifty-six Past Masters, members of this Grand Lodge have
responded to' the call of the Supreme Grand Master to participate
with Him in the glories of the Lodge Celestial.
Included in the number are many whose names are enrolled high
among those brethren who have contributed greatly to the usefulness
and influence of Masonry.
Outstanding among these brethren are Past Grand Master
Motley H. Flint of East Gate Lodge No. 290, Los Angeles; Past
Grand Orator Jacob Nieto, Fidelity Lodge No. 120 of San Francisco;
and Grand Junior Steward, John Logie of Redlands Lodge No. 300.
The many virtues and records of these brethren will be given to
you later in detail and in more eloquent words than we can pen. Suffice to say, their deeds of charity and pure beneficence make enduring
pages in the hearts of those who knew them.
The list of our departed members and the Lodge of which they
were members is as follows, viz.:
Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento:
Elbridge LaFayette Hawk, died August 30, 1930.
San Jose Lodge No. 10, San Jose:
Albert Hutchinson J arinan, died May 28, 1930.

198

PROCEEDINGS OF' TH I~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Washington Lodge No. 20, Sacramento :
George Ernest Ebert, died June 12, 1930.

Pasadena Lodge No. 272, Pasadena:
Henry Ramel, died September 3, 1929.
Orren Henry Hayes, died October 12, 1929.
Oscar Otto Freeman, died December 8, 1929.
John M. Pierce, died February 20, 1930. ·

Gold Hill Lodge No. 32, Lincoln:
Albert James Gladding, die~ August 21, 1929.

Oakd;lie Lodge No. 275, Oakdale:
Elmer Ray Clark, died December 30, 1929.

Howard Lodge No. 37, Yreka:
Frederick Elijah Wadsworth, died April 30, 1930.
Horace Vincent Ley.

Hanford Lodge No. 279, Hanford :
Archibald Dill Driver, died February 26, 1930.

Nevada Lodge No. 13, Nevada City:
-George William Ogden, died March 23, 1930.

Natoma Lodge No. 64, Folsom:
Frederick Parker Burnham, died February 25, 1930.
Vesper Lodge No. 84, Red Bluff :
James Louis Barham, died August 3. 1928.
William Harvey Cox, died April 12, 1929.
Oroville Lodge No. 103:
Roger Sylvester Kittrick, died October 17, 1929.
Fidelity Lodge No. 120, San Francisco :
Jacob Nieto, died March 6, 1930.
Samuel Louis Dinkelspiel, died May 14, 1930.
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131, 'Woodbridge:
Frank Henry Ashley.
Blakely Robert Woods.
Redwood City Lodge No. 168, Redwood City:
Thomas Ochtreigh Heydenfeldt, died April 17, 1930.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, Los Angeles:
John Luther Matheson, died August 11, 1929.
Thomas William Wallace, died September 23, 1929.
Isadore Frenkel Whomes, died May 4, 1930.
Clement A. Brown, died June 4, 1930.
Hesperian Lodge No. 264, Santa Maria :
Fremont C. Twitchell, died December 10, 1929.
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241, Santa Ana :
William Lee Duggan, died February 5, 1930.
Laurel Lodge No. 245, Willows:
Baiky Terrill, died January 26, 1930.

Southwest Lodge No. 283, National City:
Martin Luther Ward, died May 6, 1930.
East Gate Lodge No. 290, Los Angeles:
Motley Hewes Flint, died July 14, 1930.
Rl·dlands Lodge No. 300, Redlands:
John H. Logie, died July 19, 1930.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322, Alhambra:
James Napier Hall, died July 12, 1930.
Whittier Lodge No. 323, Whittier:
James H . Stewart, died April 28, 1930.
Sunset Lodge No. 352, Los Angeles:
Charles Henry Bridges, died March 28, 1930.
Mill Valley Lodge No. 356, Mill Valley:
Louis Lyman Janes, died September 30, 1929.
Veteran Lodge No. 373, West Los Angeles:
Samuel War!, died April 2, 1930.
Richmond Lodge No. 375, San Francisco:
Henry Clair Gaylord, died July 20, 1930.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, Huntington Beach:
George Arthur Shank, died May 20, 1930.
Bay View Lodge No. 401, Oakland:
Thomas Robert Tilley, died August 24, 1929.
Sidney H omer Wilson, di ed April 9, 1930.
Brawley Lodge No. 402, Brawley:
William Tricky Dunn, died October 6, 1929.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410, Berkeley:
Samuel Wilson Smith, died April 25, 1930.

19!1

200

l'fiOCl~IDDINGS

OF THID

Arlington Lodge No. 414, Los Angeles:
Herbert Lester Stuart, died May 8, 1930.
Clovis Lodge No. 417, Clovis:
Herbert Joseph Clark, died April 5, 1930.
Midway Lodge No. 426, Taft:
Roy Edward Ranous, died ~fay 21, 1930.
Fairmount Lodge No. 435, San Francisco:
Robert Daremus McFarland, died August 28, 1929.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"So live that when thy summons comes to join
The innumerable caravan, that moves
To that mysterious realm, where each shall take
His chamber in the silent halls of death,
Thou go not, like the quarry slave at night,
Scourged to his dungeon; but, sustained and soothed
By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams."
.GILBERT

Van N uys Lodge No. 450, Van N uys:
Joseph Alexander Bailey, died March 30, 1930.
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453, San Francisco:
Hayes Pierce Speakman, died September 9, 1929.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478, Berkeley:
Joseph Emory Newman, died January 26, 1929.
Tonic Lodge No. 520, Los Angeles:
Samuel H'orowitz, died January 11, 1930.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529, Los Angeles:
Frederick Vincent \\Telch, died June 13, 1930.
Jonathan Lodge No. 545, San Francisco:
William Edward Williams, died December 5, 1929.
Triangle Lodge No. 548, Ven ice:
Mahlon Charles Rice, died March 5, 1930.
Point Firmin Lodge No. 558, San Pedro:
Gilbert Clyde Bell, died May 16, 1930.
Progressive Lodge No. 578, Los Angeles:
Edward Howard Sleeper, died January 18, 1930.
Elmhurst Lodge No. 610, Oakland:
Phil H. Weber, died July 7, 1930.
We, who remain, may well emulate the example of the lives of
our departed brethren whose love and devotion to the principles of
our beloved fraternity are beacon lights on the great highway of life,
ever beckoning us onward and upward to higher attainments and
nobler deeds, and may we

201

B. OCHELTREE,

A. PLUMB,
WILLIAM H. p ARCEL,
Committee.
MAX

String quartette-"Andante Cantibile," from
Opus 11 .......................................................... Tschaikowsky

In Memoriam Motley Hewes Flint
By WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
\\Then a man dies, whom we have loved and honored and whose
face and voice we shall sadly miss for many a day, at our meet\ngs,
in our works and when we rest from labor, it is fit that we should
assemble together, and recount the story of his life, make up the
record of his works, and hear spoken of his excellencies and good
deeds. For, after a time, the great void that such a death makes will
be filled, and he will only occasionally be spoken of and remembered;
a~·d this will c:ome to pass also· as to all of us.
'
,
·
Motley Hewes Flint was born in Some.rville, Mass., February
19th, 1865, and died at L.os Angeles July 14th, 1930, aged 65 years.
He received his limited education in . the.public Schools of San
Francisco and at an early age began his business career in that city
by engaging in the wholesale paper business. He removed to Los
Angeles in 1886 when he was just twenty-one years of age and there
resided for the· rest of his life.
He was raised a Master Mason in Sunset Lodge (now Eastgate
No. 290) on August 23rd, 1895, and served that Lodge as Master in
1898, 1899 and 1900. He was High Priest of Signet Chapter No. 57
during the years 1901, 1902 and 1903. He was Knighted in Los
Angeles Commandery in 1896 and joined .the Scottish .Rite in 1905,
being coroneted an Inspector General Honorary of the 33° in 1914.
He was a charter member of San Gabriel Conclave of the Red Cross

202

l'ROC.l!:EDlNGS Ol!' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of Constantine and was its Sovereign in 1922. He was Potentate of
Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine in 1906, 1907, 1910, 1911 and 1912.
He was Grand Master of Masons in California in 1.905-1906.
While this brief outline of his Masonic record, as preserved in
the archives of the order, indicates long service, high honors and
brilliant achievements, it fails to give more than a suggestion of the
Masonic life of a remarkable man who found in our Institution a
philosophy which he accepted unquestioned to guide and direct his
life and an incentive and opportunity to exemplify in full measure the
benevolent aspirations of a good Mason.
Past Grand Master Flint was Master of his Lodge for three years,
and at a time of general depression and much unemployment. The
membership of his Lodge was composed largely of railroad men,
many of whom had gone on strike. He labored assiduously for his
brethren and secured employment for every member of his Lodge
who needed work. He was Grand Master the year of the San Francisco fire and as soon as he heard of the calamity he went to San
Francisco and devoted his time and efforts for months solely in the
work of succoring and rehabilitating the bereft and needy. Our records disclose the immense labor involved and the hundreds of thousands of dollars contributed by the Masonic world and expended
under his wise direction. This service required not only much time,
but the strain nearly cost. the life of the Grand Master.
For more than a quarter of a century he was President of the
Board of Relief of Los Angeles and in that work of mercy he was
characteristically active, earnest and masterful. The thanks and
prayers of thousands were his reward for his untiring zeal and abiding sympathy for the unfortunate. For twenty years he was the
Shrine Santa Claus and raised funds and dispensed Christmas cheer
to several thousand poor children and to hundreds of necessitous
families. For many years he was a faithful and invaluable Trustee of
the Masonic Homes of California and thereafter Chairman of the
Endowment Fund Committee, which has struggled so long and so
successfully to provide an adeq11ate financial backlog of protection
for our homes for the aged and orphaned.
After expending the efforts of all the years of his manhood in
relieving distress and bringing some comfort and peace into weary
and hurdened lives he left a memorial of his greatness of heart and
the sincerity of his sympathies by dedicating his fortune to charity.
His will created three perpetual trust funds: One of $50,000 to yield
an income to be used for Christmas cheer for poor children, one of
$50.000 to yield an income to be used to provide summer vacations
for poor children, and the third, being the residue of his estate
amounting to several hundred th ousand dollars, to yield an income

to assist deserving boys and girls to get a start in the business world,
and to assist aged men and women fallen upon days of penury and .
want in their · 1ater years. It was like him to provide expressly that
all red tape should be cut out and that the money should go to
those who needed it when they needed it.
Being a restless man of prodigious energy and industry, Motley
Flint found time for many civic activities. He was s uccessful in
bringing conventions and large meetings to California and was indefatigable in providing shows and entertainment for them. For many
years he was facile pri1~ceps in this work and was the responsible host
to Knight Templars, Shriners, Elks, Bankers, Educators and other
large groups. He had genius for this as for other things. He devoted
much time in aiding to secure the motion picture industry for Los
Angeles, in striving for a people's harbor, in acquiring an adequate
water supply for the city and in the dissemination of information for
the development and upbuilding of the Commonwealth he loved so
much and served so patriotically.
He was imbued with a deep and ardent love for his country and
his State and was always a loyal citizen and a staunch advocate of
what he conceived to be the public weal. He accepted his citizenship
as an obligation and instead of being passive and indifferent in
political concerns he was alert and diligent and demonstrated a
thoroughgoing Americanism.
Soon after his removal to Los Angeles he became a clerk in the
postoffice and in 1887 was appointed Assistant Postmaster. In 1890
he was appointed Postoffice Inspector., In the performance o{ the
duties of thi's position .he trave led constantly 3-nd extensively throughout the west .and developed ~ 'w idespread circle of friends and acquaintances. He was an outstanding figure in this branch of the
Government service and was selected to install the postal system of
the Hawaiian 'Islands when they were annexed to the United States.
He was appointed Postmaster of Los Angeles in 1904 and resigned
after six years of service to become President of the Metropolitan
Trust Company. When this company was consolidated with the Los
Angeles Trust and Savings Bank he became Vice President of the
bank and continued as Vice President, and afterwards as Executive
Vice President of that ba nk and its successors for more than twenty
years. His industry, sound judgment, keen powers of analysis, sterling honesty, positive character, understanding of human nature and
spirit of helpfulness won for him a m erited success and an important
place in the financial world. His duties at the bank were arduous
and the responsibilities great and it was only because of a strong
will and unusual vigor that he was able to devote much time and
energy to such varied business, civic, charitable and fraternal activities.

a

203

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

204

205

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Motley Flint had an extraordinarily large number of friends and
a.cquaintances throughout every State in the Union. His business,
fraternal and civic activities brought him into contact with thousands
of men who were impressed and drawn to him by his positive character, outspoken manner, earnestness of purpose, straightforward
manliness, strict integrity, social disposition and genial nature. He
was a fast and staunch friend. He made enemies, as men of strong
will and positive convictions win always surely do, but he plotted no
harm against anyone and sought no revenge. He was sometimes
brusque and often misunderstood, for his acts and words were frequently impulsive; but at heart he was sound and kindly. His abruptness masked a keenly sensitive nature and a profound love for his
felloVI man. He suffered deeply when unjustly criticized and his later
years brought him great sorrow because of unwarranted misrepresentations and unmerited attacks of which his well known life and
noble character offered a sufficient refutation.
In 1928 Motley Flint retired from business with the purpose of
devoting his time to the pursuit of living values and pleasures that
had been denied him by his active and strenuous business career. He
wished to travel abroad and by observation and experience partially
to make up for a limited education. He also wanted to develop his
modest and beautiful home at Flintridge, where it was his custom
and greatest delight to assemble and entertain his family and friends.
But all the cherished hopes and plans for the expected leisure of his
declfoing years were shattered by an assassin's bullets, which struck
him dow_n in a court of law whence he had been called as a witness.
While in good physical and mental health, and pursuing his lawful.
O!=casions, he was killed by an entire stranger, whom he had never
met or wronged. Thus tragically, and inexplicably ended the life of
a Master Craftsman-a great and goo<l n:ia11.
. May his memory be a blessing to those who cherish and treas•.
ure it! .

In Memoriam Jacob Nieto
By WILLIA M A. SHERMAN
We cannot approach Jacob Nieto, man, Mason, rabbi, along the
beaten paths of eulogy or satisfy ourselves with the empty civilities
of commonplace funeral tributes, for he did not make his life journey
over main traveled roads nor was he ever commonplace. Cold for"
malities would be unsuited to him. His manner and mode of life
reflected the highest culture and finest nature. Like Cromwell, he.
would always have said, "Paint me as I am."
Rabbi Jacob Nieto was born of a well known, long established
family , with every facility for education. He belonged to an old
aristocratic line in Israel. He traced his ancestry back to the days
of the Spanish Inquisition. · He was born in London, England, December 22, 1863. He was educated at the Collegiate School of
Kingston, Jamaica, British West Indies, at the College of the C.ity
of New York and the J ews College of London, England, from which
he received his degree as Bachelor of Hebrew and Rabbi. He came
to California in May, 1893, as Rabbi of Congregation Sherith Israel,
San Francisco, and continued as its leader until his death on March
26, 1930.
Brother Jacob Nieto had a distinguished and impelling personality. He was an impressive figure to behold, tall of form, rare and
unique in manner and appearance. Wherever he might be he was
always a marked man. By education, experience and analysis he was
unquestionably one of the best informed and most cultivated of men.
His mind was a treasure-house of universal learning. H is ability to
express himself made him one of the outstanding orators of his time.
He had a profound insight into human nature and a sympathy for
erring mortality which was noble, inspiring and constructive. He
had a great and sympathetic soul and was truly one "to whom the
burdened heart could pour out its sorrows, one to whom distress
could prefer its suit, one whose hand was guided by justice and
whose heart was expanded by benevolence." No one who sought his
guidance, counsel or assistance was turned away if it were within
his power to help. No problem was too intricate to r eceive his humane
consideration.
Brother Jacob Nieto was always a champion of youth. He had
a parti.c ularly peculiar and penetrating understanding and insight into
the life and mental processes of the growing boy. As one 0£ the
original members of the San Francisco Council, Boy Scouts of
America he contributed largely to a community service which has
inspired 'and developed into useful citizens, thousands of boys. His

207

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ability to analyze the qualities and abilities of youth is forcibly emphasized in one outstanding incident-his selection of a poor boy
for higher education. This boy was in an orphan asylum and through
the efforts of Brother Jacob Nieto was educated at the Hebrew
Union College in Cincinnati. It was Brat.her Nieto's ambition. that
this boy should be a rabbi, but when the youth told his benefactor
that he'preferred the law to the synagogue, he accepted the decision
as an evidence of individuality which he admired and was satisfied.
That boy today is one of the lea·ding lawyers of the country.
· He contacted the civic and political life of the State at a thousand
points. For nearly four decades he was a powerful element in shaping public opinion. He always spoke frankly and his opinions were
widely quoted. No cause of liberal or humanitarian impulse lacked
his championship. The under-privileged w ere always uppermost with
hinr and he gave them the full strength of his advocacy. He was a
great frie·n d of the labor groups and championed their principles in
bold and forthright fashion . During the San Francisco catastrophe
of ·1906 he proved a tower of strength and service in the hour of
crisis and the period of reconstruction which followed. He had an
enormous amount of courage and nothing ever overwhelmed . his
great spirit. He knew full well the burdens, opportunities and responsibilities of his calling and performed his duties faithfully and
well.
Brother Jacob Nieto loved his fellow man and responded
promptly to the· ideals of fraternal service. Masonically, he received
the Blue degrees in Fidelity Lodge No. 120 io 1897 and immediately
commenced a ·Masonic career that ended only with his death. He
passed through the chairs of Fidelity, becoming its Master in 1905.
Becoming eligible-. to p·articipate in the deliberations of this Grand
Lodge in 1903 as junior ·warden of his Lodge, he at once took an
active part. He was appointed Grand Chaplain at that session and
continued in that place for three years. In 1906 and 1907 he was
Grand ·orator and inspired and instructed the brethren with his might,
eloquence and learning. In 1923 he was the eulogist at the soldier
metnorial·services conducted by 'Grand 'Lodge. Through all the years
his voice was often heard in this Grand Body in support of its great
huma:nitllrian principles and ideals. He once said, "No occasion and
no place seem to inspire me to reach my greatest heights than a
Masonic gathering."
He was alfo -a · member· of San Francisco Chapter No. 1, Royal
Arch · Masons, ~rid ltal\fotnia Council No. 2, Royal and Select Masters. In the Scottish Rite he attained the exalted rank of the thirtythird deg'ree and was the· orator of Islam Temple of the Shrine, in
which he ·took a·ri active part. In ·all the activities of Masonry he was

always a willing worker and was ever giving of his great oratorical
ability. He was past president of the District Grand Lodge No. 4,
lndependent Order B'nai Brith. He was an organizer and past president of the Jewish Educational Society of San Francisco and President of the Board of Rabbis of Northern California and of the
Western Association of Jewish Ministers. As the leading Rabbi in
years of service on the Pacific Coast he held the affection and esteem
of his colleagues.
Brother Jacob Nieto was an able writer. His writings were
touched with wit, often with sarcasm, but always with kindliness.
His opinions were logical and sincere. He was the author of "The
H.omance of Poverty," editor of the "New Occident" and contributing editor of the Jewish Journal and at one time feature writer for
the San Francisco Bulletin.
Brother Jacob Nieto·'s home life was happy. Mrs. Rose Nieto,
his widow, two daughters, Miss Anita Nieto and Miss Julie Nieto,
and a son, John Nieto, also three sisters, Mrs. Albert Lucas, Miss
~1irriam Nieto and Miss Sarah Nieto, survive him.
Brother Jacob Nieto's friends were legion. He had an unbounded capacity to draw people to him. The funeral services in
Congregation Sherith Israel were attended by thousands in all walks
of life, who thronged the vast structure and packed the streets surrounding the Temple as the funeral cortege passed. In the passing
of Brother Jacob Nieto, San Francisco and the State lost one of its
best known and best loved citizens. He was the type of human
kindly man upon whom could be justly attached the title "One who
walked with kings, but never lost the common touch."
His place in the minds of the public was splendidly and truly
expressed by Brother Eugene Block of the San Francisco CallBulletin in an editorial of that paper, as follows: "There went a man
who was truly a friend of the under-dog-Rabbi Jacob Nieto--for
nearly forty years a beloved figure in his adopted San Francisco.
He had a shining intellect and an understanding heart and all manner of men mourn his passing and regret that such good men cannot
live forever. In mentality he was an aristocrat, but within himself
he was utterly democratic. The forsaken, the forlorn, and the broken
made persistent and powerful appeal to Rabbi Nieto's spirit. He
understood and sympathized. If his tongue spoke cynically at times,
his heart never did."
On our personal friendship I shall not dwell. To me the beauty,
the charm, the spiritual value of that unfaltering, unwavering love is
a sacred thing, not to be· talked of, but rather as the years go on to

206

208

PR OC EEDINGS OF THE

r ecall to the mind's eye, to sense again and again and say to myselfmy life has been rich indeed, Brother Jacob N ieto was my friend.
To speak of one who has been so much of one's life, and not
lose one's sen se of restraint is difficult indeed. The temptation to
burst the bounds and perhaps grow inarticulate is too strong and so
I close having left untouched, I feel, the real beauties of that fine
character. I fe el with Ingersoll that if every one for whom Brother
Jacob Nieto had done a kind deed. would bring a blossom to his grave,
he would sleep tonight beneath a paradise of flowers .

In Memoriam John H. Logie

By OAKLEY K. MORTO N
During the past year the silent messenger entered the official
family of Grand Lodge. No more can we have the hearty hand-clasp
and exchange welcome greetings with Brother John H. Logie, Junior
Grand Steward.
After enjoying a visit to his birthplace and boyhood surroundings in the Orkney Islands, the final call came to him suddenly on
July 19th, 1930, at Glasgow, Scotland. Although seventy years of
age, life had been generous to John Logie, and he was privileged to
he active and enjoy health until the influenza, during the epidemic a
few years ago, took heavily of his vitality and his last years were not
so free of interruptions.
In 1880 he came to Canada, then 19 years of age; two years
later he moved to Duluth, Minnesota, and in 1903 moved to California, locating at Redlands, San Bernardino County. John Logie
was always one of the influential citizens of Redlands. Many sought
his counsel, for the saying was "John's advice is always safe." He
maintained a quiet but active interest in the public schools. All
school observances received his full cooperation and he viewed with
intense satisfaction the erection of the fine school buildings of Redlands. He was particularly happy to arrange for the laying of each
corner stone with the proper dignity by his beloved Masonic fraternity.
In our Masonic Ritual the name John carries a reverence and
deep significance. Brother Logie merited his name of John and when
he was initiated an Entered Apprentice Mason on March 2, 1889,
Masonry gained another John that it could always be proud of. From
the date of his initiation to his death his interest in Masonic principles never waned. He was passed to the degree of Fellowcraft on

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

209

May 6th, 1889, and raised a Master Mason on May 20th, 1889, in
Palestine Lodge No. 79, A. F . & A. M., in Duluth, Minnesota. He
served as Secretary of this Lodge for some years.
For ten years he edited the Redlands Commandery Monthly
Bulletin, which carried the meat of all Masonic activities of that
city, as well as interestfog educational items of Masonic doings about
the world. It was always enjoyable to read John's review of Masonic
functions.
He was a Past Commander of Redlands Commandery No. 45,
K. T., which Commandery he helped organize, and served as its
first Recorder. For three years he served as an Illustrious Master of
Valley Council at San Bernardino. He was also a Past High Priest
of Redlands Chapter No. 77. For many years he was President of
the Gateway Scottish Rite Club, comprising San Bernardino, Riverside and Redlands. He was elected to receive the 33° in the
Scottish Rite on October 20th, 1923, and was coroneted a 33° on
January 12th, 1924.
A wonderful tribute and fitting climax of his Masonic endeavors
came in December, 1928, when he was elected, from the floor, Master
of Redlands Lodge No. 300 with the unanimous approval of the
officers. Although hesitant to accept this honor, his year was filled
with constructive activity and sincere service, thus laying a foundation from which the Lodge will long benefit. During his year as
Master many outstanding candidates were admitted into Masonry
under his guidance. Sorrow& and tribulations also came to him for
advice, and he many times said that he valued his year as Master
above all his other Masonic service, as it gave him a deeper insight
into the real functionings of a Masonic Lodge and the service that
it was possible for the Master to render. One outstanding evening
of his year in the East was the vis!t to his Lodge of his admirers
and close personal friends in Scottish Rite Masonry. Each station
was filled by a 33° brother. The Sovereign Inspector General, a
Past Master of Ohio, occupying the East. Brother Logie, the surprised and honored guest of the evening, was deeply affected by this
expression of the love and affection of his Masonic associates. At
the October, 1929, annual communication of Grand Lodge he was
honored by the M.'.W.'.Grand Master, Charles M. Wollenberg, with
the appointment of Junior Grand Steward. He was thus honored
with the opportunity to ~ervo in the highest Masonic body during
hi~ final year with us.
Brother Logie realized the value of church life in a community
~nd he gave of his time and ability to his office as Warden of the
Trinity Episcopal Church of Redlands. Shortly prior to his trip

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

abroad he worked out the details for the fulfillment of the Masonic
desires of five ministers of his city, who took the Order of the
Temple together at a wonderfully impressive ceremony. He was not
narrow in his church views, but felt there was a real need for united
Christiari effort between the denominations in any community. Anything that he could do to promote united Christian activity received
his immediate active approval.
Brother Logie is survived by ·his wife, Alice L. Logie, and their
two daughters, Helen a nd Marguerite, both now married. His home
life was ideal and he was fortunate in having a family that appreciated and shared his interest in our fraternity.
He stood forth as a noble example of the principles of Masonry.
His craft knowledge indicated his tireless. research. In 1927 he discovered that the Great Seal of Grand Lodge was not correct according_ to the rules of Heraldry. A special committee was appointed, of
which he was a member, and he canvassed the world in gathering
data from which to design the present Grand Lodge seal. His book
on Heraldry presented to Grand Lodge last October contains information on that subject and Masonic se·a ls from every country on the
globe. The design which he submitted was checked by English,
Canadian and A ustralian authorities on Heraldry, and approved and
adopted by Grand Lodge at the 1929 communication and is now the
seal in use.
In all his activities of life, whether domestic social business
religious or fraternal, he was at all times a loyal,' earnes~ and con~
scientious man. He seemed to understand t_h e spirit and truths of
Masonry; he was one of whom it could· be truly said: "Modest,
earnest, industrious, with the fear of God and the love of mankind in
his heart, he was one of our most useful citiiens."
.
"Beautiful life is that whose span
Is spent in. duty to God and man.
Beautiful calm when the ·course is :run
Beautiful twilight at·· set of ·sun ·
· Beautiful death with a- life well done."

Benediction ................................. ,.... ,................... Grand Chaplain
M ernorial Song-"Taps"............,................................... Custance.
Trumpet obligato and organ accompaniment.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

211

PROPOSAL TO MEET AT OAKLAND
The East Bay Masters and W ardens Club presented the
following resolution which was referred to the Committees
on Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence.
Resolved, that section 11 of the Constitution be amended to read

as follows :
Sec. 11. The Grand L odge shall hold its Annual Communications for the transaction of its regular business, at the City of San
Francisco commencing on the second Tuesday of October, at ten
o'clock a. ' m. Provided, however, that the Annual Communication in
October, A. L. 5932, shall be held in the City of Oakland.

REQUEST THAT GRAND LECTURER VISIT
HAWAIIAN ISLANDS
Representat ives from the Hawaiian Islands presented the
following resolution, which was referred to the Committee
on Finance:
To the .M: .W." .Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, the Grand Lecturer has not visited the Hawaiian
Islands since 1928, we, the members of the Hawaiian delegation ,
respectfully request that he be authorized to visit us during the year
1931, and that his personal expenses covering the trip be paid by the

Grand Lodge of California.

At 11 :45 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until ninethirty o'clock Thursday morning.

Z12

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

lJn <&ranil fGuilgr
Morning Session
Thursday, October 16, 1930.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock a. m., the
Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and approved.

JEWELS OF JENNINGS LODGE NO. 4
The Grand Secretary, in behalf of Peninsula Lodge No.
620, of Ocean Beach, and by request of Brother 0. S. Gauch
of New Haven, Connecticut, presented to Grand Lodge the
jewels worn by the officers of Jennings Lodge No. 4, of
Sacramento. The last Master of Jennings Lodge was J. P.
Gauch, father of the donor of the jewels, and the following
copy of the resolution of that Lodge (the original of which
was tendered with the jewels) explains fully how they came
into possession of the last Master:
"WHEREAS, the members of Jennings Lodge No. 4, F. & A. M.,
having failed to elect their proper officers in December last, and
.

WHEREAS, in the opinion of your commit!f;:e Jennings Lodge
seems to be burdened by a heavy debt of some $14,000 not contracted
by the present members of this Lodge, but by the Masonic fraternity
in general in the early stages of Masonry in this city, and
WHEREAS, in consequence of which many members of said Lodge
have become displeased, discouraged and unattentive; therefore be it

Resol'z•cd, that this Lodge hereby tender her interest in the furniture, etc., used in the Masonic hall to our sister Lodges of Sacramento city.
Resolved, that the jewels of this Lodge be herewith tendered to
the W.".J. B. Gauch, as a token of the grateful acknowledgment

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

213

on the part of the members of Jennings Lodge for the able discharge
of his duties as presiding officer thereof.
Resoli•cd, that the three first officers of this Lodge be empowered
to grant certificates to those that have received the first and second
tkgrees and also grant dimits to the members.
Resoh•ed, that the brethren stricken from the list of membership
of this Lodge for non-payment of dues, at a · regular meeting of Jennings Lodge on October 11, 1852, be reinstated.
Resol"<•ed, that we surrender our charter, books, unappropriate
funds, etc., to the Grand Lodge of the State of California.
R es pectfully submitted,
]OHN c. CLEAL,
WM. G. BORNEMAN,
HENRY WINKLE."
Jennings Lodge No. 4, A. F. & A. Masons,
Sacramento City, February 14, A. L. 5853.

The jewels and letter were accepted and the Grand Secretary was directed to acknowledge to Peninsula Lodge
and to Brother 0. S. Gauch the thanks of Grand Lodge for
the gift.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND
LECTURER'S REPORT
To the M:.w:.Grond Lodge of California:
The committee to whom the Report of the Grand Lecturer was
referred begs leave to submit the following:
It is the recommendation of this committee that that portion of
the Grand Lecturer's Report pertaining to degree teams be referred
to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to be considered
by them in connection with that portion of the Grand Master's
Message pertaining to the same subject.
Without attempting to usurp the prerogatives of any other committee, it is our further recommendation that, if legislation is enacted on the subject of degr,ee team certificates, that it be so drawn
as to prohibit men to whom a certificate is issued from occupying
any other position on the degree team than that designated in the
certificate, until the Master has satisfied himself that the brother is
proficient in the work of such other station.
The high standard of the ritualistic work th~oughout the state
· bespeaks the untiring efforts of our Very Worshipful Grand Lecturer.

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

215

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

The healthy an<l prosperous condition of the Lodges is largely due
to his advice and counsel, which has always been so cheerfully given
to those who seek his wisdom.
He has always been most patient with the brethren and has
cheerfully answered all of their questions and has helped them carry
their burdens and smooth out the rough places in the road.
He has been loyal to the sacred trust given to him and worthy
of the honor conferred upon him: Throughout the length and breadth
of ·California, he has set before us for our emulation a living example
of kindliness and brotherly love and it is our earnest prayer that
God, in his infinite wisdom, may spare "Brother Tom" to us for many
more years of loving service.
RUDOLPH MOHR, JR.,
FRED

L. JOHNSTON;

LAWRENCE

The report was adopted.

C. KELLEY,

Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M:.W:.Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on Returns herewith submits its report.
The slump in the stock market, the business depression and the
increase in unemployment appear to have affected the work of the
Lodges. There has been a noticeable falling off in the number of
those petitioning for the degrees.
During the year 6,21S candidates were raised to the Sublime
Degree of Master Mason. This is 409 fewer than the previous year.
The net increase in membership for the year is 3,410, which is more
than twenty per cent less than the increase of a year ago. This is
not a matter of great concern.
Of all the Grand Lodges in the United States, California has
the largest increase m membership. Some 17 Grand Jurisdictions
report a decrease. The total increase in membership throughout the
country is given as, only, 676. Other fraternal organizations report
decreases in membership.
We ought to remember that it is tqe quality of the candidates
that <;ounts and not the number. With fewer candidates the Lodges
should he able to act with greater care. They may be able to make'
Masons and not merely make members. And with less work the
members of the Lodges will have more time to devote to sociability
and the joys of getting well acquainted.
Herewith follows the names of the Lodges making annual returns and the amounts paid by each:

Lodge

Number

California
Western Star ................ 2
Tehama .......................... 3
Benicia ............................ S
Tuolumne ...................... 8
Corinthian ...................... 9
San Jose .......................... 10
Yount .............................. 12
Nevada ............................ 13
Temple ............................ 14
Eureka ............................ 16
La Par. Union .............. 17
Mt. Shade ...................... 18
San Joaquin .................. 19
Washington .................... 20
Hawaiian ........................ 21
Occidental ...................... 22
Madison .......................... 23
Mariposa ........................ 24
Georgetown .................... ZS
El Dorado ...................... 26
Trinity ............................ 27
Golden Gate .................. 30
Gold Hill ........................ 32
Ophir .............................. 33
San Diego ...................... 3S
Howard .......................... 37
Santa Cruz .................... 38
Sacramento .................... 40
Martinez ........................ 41
Los Angeles .................. 42
Hiram .............................. 43
Mt. Moriah .................... 44
Crescent .......................... 4S
Texas .............................. 46
Forbestown .................... SO
Illinois ............................ S1
Suisun .............................. SS
Volcano ............................ S6
Santa Rosa .................... S7
Union .............................. S8
Gravel Range ................ S9
Plumas ............................ 60

General
H ome
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
H ome Tax

$673.S5
91.35
421.4S
156.SS
222.6S
298.80
46S.30
254.40
138.9S
119.6S
209.6S
179.40
30.SO
S71.7S
509.6S
351.ZS
889.50
lSS.30
1S6.60
44.SO
172.05
80.80
766.25
91.40
39.95
632.00
210.8S
346.70
518.30
201.3S
824.9S
39.85
S37.8S
129.0S
42.65
48.4S
74.30
141.4S.
25.65
422.70
Sl7.7S
28.0S
89.9S

$350.00
100.00
275.00
lZS.00
300.00
200.00
400.00
275.00
100.00
lZS.00
27S.OO
75.00
S0.00
32S.OO
37S.OO
200.00
1,0S0.00
17S.OO
ZS0.00

$185.75
22.7S
114.25
40.75
S7.2S
82.00
124.SO
66.00
36.75
32.ZS
S2.2S
Sl.00
7.SO
1S8.75
137.25
96.25
227.SO
39.SO
34.00
12.SO
48.ZS
22.00
206.25
26.00
1l.7S
170.00
SS.ZS
9S.SO
144.SO
47.7S
216.7S
10.ZS
14S.2S
33.ZS
12.ZS
14.ZS
19.50
39.ZS
7.25
110.SO
143.7S
8.ZS
21.7S

$371.50
45.SO
228.SO
81.50
114.SO
164.00
249.00
132.00
73.50
64.SO
104.50
102.00
lS.00
317.50
274.50
192.SO
4SS.OO
79.00
68.00
25.00
96.SO
44.00
412.SO
S2.00
23.50
340.00
110.50
191.00
289.00
9S.50
433.50
20.50
290.50
66.SO
24.SO
28.SO
39.00
78.SO
14.50
221.00
287.50
16.50
43.50

100.00
7S.OO
S75.00
25.00
675.00
2SO.OO
22S.OO
ZS0.00
32S.OO
825.00
50.00
3SO.OO
12S.OO

SO.OD
7S.OO
32S.OO
27S.OO
200.00

Total

$1,580.80
259.60
1,039.20
403.80
694.40
744.80
1,238.80
727.40
349.20
341.40
641.40
407.40
103.00
1,373.00
1,296.40
840.00
2,622.00
448.80
S08.60
82.00
416.80
221.80
1,960.00
194.40
75.20
1,817.00
626.60
858.20
1,201.80
669.60
2,300.20
120.60
1,323.60
3S3.80
79.40
91.20
182.80
334.20
47.40
1,079.20
1,224.00
S2.80
355.20

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

Number

Live Oak ........................ 61
Natoma ............................ 64
Amador .... ,,... ::............... 65
Forest .............................. 66
Morning Star ................ 68
Enterprise ...................... 70
Bear Mt. ························ 76
Calaveras ·-······················ 78
Humboldt ........................ 79
Ione .................................. 80
Yolo .................................. 81
Vesper .............................. 84
Naval .............................. 87
Rose's Bar ...................... 89
North Star .................... 91
St. Helena .. .................... 93
Henry Clay .................... 95
Hornitos .......................... 98
Yosemite .......................... 99
Clay ................................ 101
Oroville ...........................103
Lexington ...................... 104
Arcata ............................106
Pajaro .............................. 110
Chico ............,.................111
Summit ............................112
Eden ........ ........ c............... 113
Concord .......................... 117
Clinton ............................ 119
Fidelity ........................... .120
Alamo .............................. 122
Sotoyome ........................123
Table Mt. ........................ 124
LaFayette ........................ 126
Hermanff ........................ 127
Visalia ............................128
Nicolaus .......................... 129
Woodbridge ................... .131
Sincerity .......................... 132
Vacaville ......:.:...............134
Valley .............................. 135
Pacific ..............................136
Crockett .......................... 139

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

975.15
99.45
68.45
50.20
441.40
255.45.
73.40
113.10
442.95
71.75
60.35
175.10
568.20
41.75
57.05
94.25
51.05
73.75
210.20
61.95
252.70
182.80
207.70
250.65
337.40
36.00
224.10
249.30
40.55
644.70
133.75
191.90
83.20
185.30
252.90
299.45
82.20
118.55
109.90
153.10
61.50
764.00
739.05

274.75
29.25
19.25
13.00
116.00
64.25
21.00
31.50
116.75
18.75
17.75
46.50
153.00
11.25
13.25
26.25
13.25
18.75
53.00
16.75
70.50
47.00
55.50
67.25
91.00
10.00
56.50
64.50
10.75
180.50
33.75
53.50
23.00
49.50
68.50
74.25
23.00
30.75
28.50
41.50
17.50
205.00
198.25

549.50
58.50
38.50
26.00
232.00
128.50
42.00
63.00
233.50
37.50
35.50
93.00
306.00
22.50
26.50
52.50
26.50
37.50
106.00
33.50
141.00
94.00
111.00
134.50
182.00
20.00
113.00
129.00
21.50
361.00
67.50
107.00
46.00
99.00
137.00
148.50
46.00
61.50
57.00
83.00
35.00
410.00
396.50

217

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00
Home Tax

425.00
25.00
50.00
425.00
350.00
25.00
50.00
350.00
50.00
175.00
450.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
50.00
75.00
275.00
25.00
' 100.00
175.00
275.00
100.00
250.00
25.00
275.00
250.00
25.00
225.00
175.00
75.00
25.00
150.00
150.00
475.00
50.00
100.00
100.00
125.00
525.00
525.00

Total

2,224.40
187.20
151.20
139.20
1,214.40
798.20
161.40
257.60
1,143.20
178.00
113.60
489.60
1,477.20
100.00
. 196.80
198.00
140.80
205.00
644.20
137.20
564.20
498.80
649.20
552.40
860.40
91.00
668.60
692.80
97.80
1,411.20
410.00
427.40
177.20
483.80
608.40
997.20
201.20
310.80
295.40
402.60
114.00
1,904.00
1,858.80

Lodge

Number

Curtis .............................. 140
Grafton ............................ 141
Franklin .......................... 143
Oriental ..........................144'
Vitruvius ..... :.................. 145
Abell ................................ 146
Eel River ........................ 147
Lassen .............................. 149
l\folino ............................ 150
Woodland ........................ 156
Keystone ........................ 161
Harmony ........................ 164
Excelsior ........................ 166
Alameda ..........................167
Redwood City ................168
Mission ............................ 169
Elk Grove ...................... 173
Drytown ......................... .174
Antioch .................c.......... 175
Phoenix ..........................178
Mendocino ...................... 179
Petaluma ........................ 180
Russian River ................ 181
Arbuckle ........................ 182
Clear Lake ......................183
Sierra Valley .................. 184
Claiborne ....................... .185
Evening Sta r .. :·............... 186
Keith ................................ 187
Oakland ..........................188
Northern Light ........... .190
Marin ......\....................... 191
Santa Barba ra .............. 192
:rerndale ..........................193
Mt. View .......................~ 194
Buckeye ..........................195
San Simeon ....................196
Wilmington .................... 198
Hartley ............................199
Truckee .......................... 200
Silveyville ........................201
Pcntalpha .....:..................202
Contidence ......................203

Home
General
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

68.90
62.10
104.25
465.25
84.65
169.35
165.00
197.10
126.75
231.50
37.15
11.05
528.50
144.05
268.50
769.65
97.80
28.05
153.10
461.20
154.80
313.00
96.65
83.55
40.80
45.85
59.70
39.40
174.10
855.30
81.25
421.25
318.95
132.35
196.10
96.10
100.90
333.75
158.00
119.70
131.75
681.95
33.05

18.50
16.50
26.25
126.25
22.25
42.75
45.00
51.50
33.75
62.50
9.75
3.25
147.50
38.25
72.50
217.25
27.00
8.25
41.50
118.00
42.00

go.oo

27.25
20.75
12.00
10.25
15.50
ll.00
46.50
239.50
21.25
116.25
86.75

37.75
51.50
26.50
18.50
78.75
45.00
30.50
33.75
186.75
8.25

37.00
33.00
52.50
252.50
44.50
85.50
90.00
103.00
67.50
125.00
19.50
6.50
295.00
76.50
145.00
434.50
54.00
16.50
83.00
236.00
84.00
160.00
54.50
41.50
24.00
20.50
31.00
22.00
93.00
479.00
42.50
232.50
173.50
75.50
103.00
53.00
37.00
157.50
90.00
61.00
67.50
373.50
16.50

$25.00
Home Tax

50.00
50.00
100.00
300.00
100.00
200.00
100.00
175.00
100.00
175.00

175.00
150.00
200.00
275.00
25.00
100.00
450.00
100.00
350.00
50.00
100.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
100.00
400.00
50.00
300.00
200.00
50.00
200.00
50.00
350.00
575.00
75.00
125.00
150.00
375.00
25.00

Total

174.40
161.60
283.00
1,144.00
251.40
497.60
400.00
526.60
328.00
594.00
66.40
20.80
1,146.00
408.80
686.00
1,696.40
203.80
52.80
377.60
1,265.20
380.80
903.00
228.40
245.80
101.80
151.60
156.20
72.40
413.60
1,973.80
195.00
1,070.00
779.20
295.60
550.60
225.60
506.40
1,145.00
368.00
336.20
383.00
1,617.20
82.80

218

General

Lodge

Number

Salinas ............................204
Olivet ..............................205
Stanislaus ........................206
Anaheim ..........................207
Rio Vista ........................208
King David's ..................209
Friendship ......................210
San Benito ......................211
So. San Francisco ........212
San Buenaventura......... .214
Oak Grove ..................... .215
Doric ................. c. .......... .216
Monterey ........................217
Mosaic ............................218
Speranza I taliana .......... 219
Downey .......................... 220
Inyo, ..................................221
Roseville ..........................222
Bakersfield ...................~ .224
Brooklyn ..........................225
San Mateo ................... .226
Athens ............................228
Solano ..............................229
North Butte ....................230
Covelo ..............................231
Janesville ........................232
Calistoga ....................... .233
Hope ............................... .234
Surprise Valley..............235
Hills Ferry ................... .236
Guadalupe ........................237
Colusa ..............................24-0
Santa Ana ........................241
Magnolia .......................242
Eucalyptus ......................243
Alcatraz ..........................244
Laurel ..............................245
Pomona ............................246
Fresno ............................247
Alturas ............................248
Adin ................................250
Landmark ................... ~ .. 253
Reading ..........................254

Fund

258.75
106.70
336.85
350.60
91.10
259.30
535.50
143.55
275.60
319.90
606.05
577.75
150.15
122.90
375.00
211.35
86.40
226.00
478.20
620.60
282.25
103.00
410.75
114.85
42.70
62.10
85.00
78.85
63.35
96.35
54.30
147.90
557.30
306.60
205.60
535.15
175.60
328.80
546.60
135.10
65.35
83.75
188.25

Home
Home
Maintenance Building

68.75
30.50
90.25
84.00
21.50
69.50
132.50
35.75
74.00
78.50
158.25
153.75
39.75
33.50
100.00
52.75
21.00
65.00
123.00
169.00
71.25
30.00
113.75
30.25
10.50
16.50
25.00
20.25
17.75
22.75
14.50
38.50
144.50
74.00
54.00
149.75
49.00
92.00
144.00
31.50
17.75
23.75
51.25

137.50
61.00
180.50
168.00
43.00
139.00
265.00
71.50
148.00
157.00
316.50
307.50
79.50
67.00
200.00
105.50
42.00
130.00
246.00
338.00
142.50
60.00
227.50
60.50
21.00
33.00
50.00
40.50
35.50
45.50
29.00
77.00
289.00
148.00
108.00
299.50
98.00
184.00
288.00
63.00
35.50
47.50
102.50

219

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS 01" THE
$25.00
Home Tax

375.00
25.00
275.00
650.00
175.00
200.00
750.00
200.00
225.00
400.00
725.00
350.00
125.00
100.00
300.00
225.00
175.00
50.00
525.00
375.00
275.00
50.00
200.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
75.00
50.00
175.00
25.00
150.00
650.00
525.00
200.00
200.00
125.00
225.00
475.00
200.00
25.00
50.00
125.00

Total

840.00
223.20
882.60
1,252.60
330.60
667.80
1,683.00
450.80
722.60
955.40
1,805.80
1,389.00
394.40
323.40
975.00
594.60
324.40
471.00
1.372.20
1.502.60
771.00
243.00
952.00
305.60
149.20
161.60
160.00
214.60
166.60
339.60
122.80
413.40
1.640.80
1,053.60
567.60
1.184.40
447.60
829.80
1,453.60
429.60
143.60
205.00
467.00

Lodge

Number

Welcome ........................255
Lodi ..................................256
Penrhyn ......................... .258
Evergreen ......................259
King Solomon ................260
Tuscan ............................261
Lompoc ............................262
Hesperjan ........................264
Orland ............................265
North East .................... 266
Galt ..................................267
Durant ............................268
Olive Branch ................269
Snow Mt.........................271
Pasadena ....................... .272
Anchor ............................273
Arroyo ............................274
Oakdale ............................275
Selma ..............................277
So. California ................278
Hanford ......................:...279
'Madera ............................ 280
Mt. Shasta ......................281
Callayomi ........................282
So. West ........................283
San Miguel ....................285
Paso Robles ....................286
Winnedumah ................. .287
Maxwell ..........................288
Elsinore ..........................289
East Gate ..................... .290
Santa Paula .................... 291
Los Gatos ........................292
Orange Grove ................293
Traver ..............................294
Mt. Jackson ................. .295
Silver Gate .................... 296
Dunsmuir ........................297
Liberty ......................... :..299
Redlands ..........................300
Ontario ............................301
Santa Lucia ....................302
Porterville ...................:..303

Home
Home
General
Funrl Maintenance Building

120.40
257.50
120.25
522.15
737.30
84.40
153.95
235.00
120.05
52.90
71.05
654.45
229.80
44.20
609.95
308.20
84.25
99.80
192.55
602.10
147.85
161.70
65.25
58.30
159.25
70.70
129.00
142.20
73.95
101.55
888.30
307.10
188.80
220.10
111.80
123.05
597.35
213.05
220.55
368.75
207.25
122.40
302.45

31.00
72.50
31.25
134.75
204.50
21.00
41.75
60.00
33.25
13.50
18.25
184.25
52.00
13.00
166.75
73.00
21.25
27.00
50.75
166.50
40.25
45.50
16.25
14.50
41.25
20.50
30.00
33.00
21.75
25.75
239.50
76.50
52.00
56.50
32.00
33.25
162.75
58.25
60.75
98.75
56.25
31.00
79.25

62.00
145.00
62.50
269.50
409.00
42.00
83.50
120.00
66.50
27.00
36.50
368.50
104.00
26.00
333.50
146.00
42.50
54.00
101.50
333.00
80.50
91.00
32.50
29.00
82.50
41.00
60.00
66.00
43.50
51.50
. 479.00
153.00
104.00
113.00
64.00
66.50
325.50
116.50
121.50
197.50
112.50
62.00
158.50

$25.00
Home Tax

175.00
75.00
125.00
475.00
375.00
100.00
125.00
350.00
75.00
75.00
50.00
325.00
500.00
400.00
500.00
100.00
50.00
150.00
300.00
175.00
25.00
100.00
75.00
200.00
25.00
250.00
250.00
25.00
75.00
525.00
350.00
100.00
275.00
25.00
100.00
375.00
150.00
125.00
225.00
150.00
150.00
350.00

Total

388.40
550.00
339.00
1,401.40
1,725.80
247.40
404.20
765.00
294.80
168.40
175.80
1,532.20
885.80
83.20
1,510.20
1,027.20
248.00
230.80
494.80
1.401.60
443.60
323.20
214.00
176.80
483.00
157.20
469.00
491.20
164.20
253.80
2,131.80
886.60
444.80
664.60
232.80
322.80
1,460.60
537.80
527.80
890.00
526.00
365.40
890.20

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

Number

Reedley ............................304
Azusa ................................305
Ashlar ..............................306
Santa Monica ................307
Monrovia ........................308
Delano ............................309
Sisson ........... :..:............... 310
Los Banos ......................312·
Tehachapi ......................313
Temescal ........................314
Norwalk ..........................315
Sanger ............................316
Fallbrook ........................31·7
Emmanuel ........................318
Hollenbeck ....................319
So. Gate ..........................320
Alisa! ............... :................ 321
Alhambra ........................322
Whittier ..........................323
Corona ............................324
Consuelo ..........................325
Needles ............................326
Long Beach ....................327
Redondo ..........................328
Vallee de France ..........329
Kilauea ............................ 330
Pacific Grove ..................331
San Pedro ......................322
Alta ..................................333
Covina ..............................334
West Gate ..... :.............. :.335
Fruitvale ........................336
Carquinez ...................... 337
San Jacinto ....................338
Fullerton ........................ 339
Oxnard ............................341
San Fernando ........... ,. ...343
Starr King ......................344
Brentwood ......................345
Palo Alto ......................346
McKinley ........................347
San Bernardino ............348
Sequoia ............................349

General
Fund

~Iaintenance

Home

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

144.55
161.20
202.40
361.55
286.45
190.35
69.45 .
129.40
174.75
166.35
153:05
169.15
66.05
74.45
1,395.15
743.85
107.90
446.10
502.75
597.85
166.40
211.35
671.60
250.80
134.80
220.65
141.55
577.55
41.45
217.60
859.65
726.60
145.30
99.90
432.60
251.90
262.15
601.35
109.85
497.00
305.75
520.60
889.80

35.75
43.00
51.00
95.75
74.25
47.75
19.25
31.00
43.75
42.75
33.25
39.75
18.25
19.25
379.75
205.25
28.50
116.50
123.75
160.25
41.00
52.75
184.00
67.00
37.00
57.25
35.75
145.75
9.25
59.00
222.25
199.00
39.50
28.50
114.00
63.50
64.75
157.75
30.25
125.00
83.75
134.00
252.00

71.50
86.00
102.00
191.50
148.50
95.50
38.50
62.00
87.50
85.50
66.50
79.50
36.50
38.50
759.50
410.50

175.00
100.00
200.00
275.00
325.00
250.00

57.00
233.00
247.50
320.50
82.00
105.50
368.00
134.00
74.00
114.50
71.50
291.50
18.50
118.00
444.50
398.00
79.00
57.00
228.00
127.00
129.50
315.50
60.50
250.00
167.50
268.00
504.00

221

GRAND LODG E OF CALIFORNI A

200.00
250.00
225.00
300.00
300.00
50.00
75.00
850.00
300.00
125.00
600.00
675.00

575.00
250.00
325.00
350.00
200.00
75.00
175.00
200.00
625.00
75.00
175.00
875.00
425.00
75.00
25.00
425.00
300.00
425.00
525.00
25.00
650.00
125.00
500.00
350.00

Total

426.80
390.20
555.40
923.80
834.20
583.60
127.20
422.40
556.00
519.60
552.80
588.40
170.80
207.20
3,884.40
1,659.60
318.40
1,395.60
1,549.00
1,653.60
539.40
694.60
1,573.60
651.80
320.80
567.40
448.80
1,639.80
144.20
569.60
2,401.40
1,748.60
338.80
210.40
1,199.60
742.40
881.40
1,599.60
225.60
1,522.00
682.00
1,422.60
1,995.80

Lodge

Number

Palestine ........................351
Sunset ..............................352
Pinole ............................ ~.353
Presidio ..........................354
Hollywood ......................355
Mill Valley ....................356
Buena Park ...................,357
Golden State .................. 358
Loyalton ..........................359
San Francisco ................360
Fort Bragg ....................361
Chatity ............................362
Berkeley ..........................363
Willits ............................365
Las Palmas ....................366
So. Pasadena ..................367
Unity ..... :..........................368
Ocean Park ....................369
Amity ..............................370
le Progres de l'Oceanie 371
Gardena ..........................372
Veteran ............................373
Jewel ................................374
Richmond ........................375
Francis Drake ................376
Artesia ............:...............377
Mizpah ............................378
Fillmore ..........................379
Huntington Beach ........380
Oceanside ........................381
Highland Park .............. 382
Orosi ................................ 383
El Centro ......................384
Dinuba ............................ 385
Coalinga ..........................387
Parnassus ........................ 388
Palos Verdes ................389
Jmperial ..........................390
East Belt ........................391
West Lake ....................392
Balder ............................ 393
University ........................394
Turlock ............................ 395

Home
General
Home
Fund M aintenanCe Building

$25.00
Home Tax

T otal

334.00
273.00
75.50
314.00
684.50
181 .00
79.00
507.50
37.00
218.00
54.00
60.00
313.50
71.00
352.00
260.00
256.00
203.00
262.50 .
200.50
83.00
138.50
94.50
341.50
95.00
54.50
280.00
99.00
161.00
57.00
283.00
59.50
124.00
99.50
140.50
340.00
364.50
49.00
34.00
622.50
291.00
315.00
103.00

800.00
150.00
75.00
225.00
1,625.00
125.00
100.00
.850.00
125.00
125.00
225.00
75.00
375.00
100.00
750.00
1,175.00
700.00
525.00
250.00
275.00
250.00
250.00
50.00
200.00
325.00
125.00
275.00
200.00
500.00
175.00
475.00
175.00
250.00
175.00
275.00
400.00
700.00
75.00
50.00
725.00
250.00
525.00 .
400.00

1,953.80
1,044.60
325.60
1,264.80
4,000.40
712.20
362.80
2,572.00
260.40
838.60
420.80
277.00
1,417.20
336.20
1,970.40
2,105.00
1,584.20
1,237.60
1,116.00
950.60
544.60
724.20
364.40
1,318.80
665.00
319.40
1.203.00
537.80
1,082.20
373.40
1,438.60
383.40
678.80
513.40
753.60
1,545.60
1,925.40
248.80
164.80
2,779.00
1,215.20
1,594.00
775.60

657.80
485.10
137.35
568.80
1,348.65
315.70
144.30
960.75
79.90
386.60
114.80
112.00
571.95
129.70
692.40
540.00
500.20
408.10
472.25
374.85
170.10
266.45
172.65
606.55
197.50
112.65
508.00
189.30
340.70
112.90
539.10
119.15
242.80
189.15
267.85
634.85
678.65
100.30
63.80
1,120.25
528.70
596.50
221.10

167.00
136.50
37.75
157.00
342.25
90.50
39.50
253.75
18.50
109.00
27.00
30.00
156.75
35.50
176.00
130.00
128.00
101.50
131.25
100.25
41.50
69.25
47.25
170.75
47.50
27.25
140.00
49.50
80.50
28.50
141.50
29.75
62.00
49.75
70.25
170.25
182.25
24.50
17.00
311.25
145.50
157.50
51.50

222

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

Number

Apollo .............................. 396
Rising Light ................397
Fraternity ........................399
Rurlingame .................... 400
Bay View ........................401
Brawley ··············--·--····-··402
Y erba Buena ................. .403
Glendora .............. :......... 404
Mon eta ............................405
Burbank ..........................406
La :rvr esa ......................... .407
Sierra Madre ................408
Honolulu ........................ 409
Charter Rock ................410
Perris ..............................411
Calexico ..........................412
Waucoba ....................... .413
Arlington ....................... .414
Silver Trowel ............... .415
Lindsay ............................41Q
Clovis ..............................417
Elysian ............................ 418
U pland ............................419
Kerman ............................420
Inglewood ...................... 421
Eagle Rock ....................422
York ................................423
Exeter ............................. .424
Holtville ......................... .425
Midway ............................426
Chino Valley ................. .427
San Dimas ......................428
Pittsburg ........................429
McCloud ......................... .430
Alpha .............................. 431
Hammonton ....................433
Maricopa ........................434
Fairmount ......................435
Claremont ......................436
Lancaster ........................ 437
Acacia .............................. 438
Tyrian ............................439
Standard ........................ 440

Home
General
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

355.20
539.50
417.05
416.70
372.25
174.75
408.20
109.85
735.85
231.40
128.70
82.45
246.40
462.85
84.65
193.85
36.70
367.70
392.25
156.95
237.80
550.55
157.35
55.40
381.50
327.60
179.40
160.65
113.00
407.10
63.65
107.55

118.75
125.75
423.50
70.65
189.60
528.10
104.20
128.85
105.95
102.35
335.75

98.00
132.50
113.25
115.50
101.25
43.75
108.00
30.25
195.25 .
61.00
30.50
24.25
66.00
130.25
22.25
45.25
10.50
95.50
96.25
41.75
62.00
140.75
37.75
16.00
92.50
79.00
46.00
42.25
30.00
101.50
17.25
25.75
33.75
28.75
112.50
17.25
49.00
151.50
28.00
35.25
26.75
27.75
88.75

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

175.00
824.20
196.00
265.00
1,100.00
2,037.00
226.50
275.00
1,031.80
988.20
231.00
225.00
926.00
202.50
250.00
531.00 .
225.00
87.50
325.00
216.00
1.057.20
60.50 .
225.60
25.00
1,871.60
390.50
550.00
639.40
122.00
225.00
375.00
595.20
61.00
155.20
48.50
175.00
619.40
132.00
100.00 953.60
260.50
226.40
75.00
44.50
704.60
375.00
90.50
93.20
21.00
25.00
1,079.20
425.00
191.00
1,181.00
192.50
500.00
432.20
83.50
150.00
124.00
225.00
648.80
1,522.80
281.50
550.00
75.50 .
275.00
545.60
103.40
32.00
1,384.00
725.00
185.00
1,039.60
158.00
475.00
517.40
200.00
92.00
462.40
175.00
84.50
303.00
60.00
100.00
1,311.60
600.00
203.00
215.40
34.50
100.00
200.00
384.80
51.50
295.00
67.50
75.00
437.00
225.00
57.50
1,211.00
225.00
450.00
222.40
100.00
34.50
511.60
175.00
98.00
1,107.60
125.00
303.00
463.20
275.00
56.00
309.60
75.00
70.50
286.20
53.50
100.00
260.60
75.00
55.50
902.00
177.50
300.00

Lodge

Number

Coronado ........................441
Blackmer ........................442
Schofield .........::............... 443
Carpinteria .....:................444
Wilshire ..........................445
La Puente ..:...................446
Torrance .......... :::.............447
Mt. Diablo ......................448 ·
Park ..................................449
Van Nuys ......................450
Montebello ......................451
San Pasqual ....................452
Bethlehem ......................453
Crocker .........................454
Golden West ................. .455
Ramona ...............;.:...........457
Henry s. Orrne..............458
Riverbank .........:..............459
Mt. Oso ..........................460
Argonaut ........................461
Paul Revere ......:........... 462 .
Morgan Hill .................. 463
Alta Vista .. :...................464
Center .............................. 465
Libertas ......:·...................466
Culver City :........~..........467
Rockridge ....................... .468
Yorba Linda .................. 469
Lincoln .............'............... 470
Delta .................:..............471
Maui ............ :.... :..............472
Blythe ..............................473
Victory ............:...............474
America ...... :................... 475
Coachella ....:.....:: ............ 476
Temblor .............:............477
Tho'usand Oaks ............478
Golden Rule ..................479
Fellowship .. :...................480·
Mt. Davidson .: ..............481·
C. F. Smith :.:.................482
Bell ::............ :'. .. :............... 483
Albert Pike .....:·..............484

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Buildinir

161.05
484.60
194.00
74.05
q08.20
78.90
231.45
150.00
463.35
237.55
288.10·
374.85
372.50
257.70
498.80
244.80
658.60
56.95
172.40
353.50
540.95
100.30
294.65
326.65
254.15
256.60
363.75
145.25
311.10
305.05
108.45
57.15
216.60.
395.65
90.10
139.50
327.60
314.75
210.85
298.60
281;10
196.10
196.50

43.25
129.00
50.00
18.25
163.00
18.50
59.25
40.00
127:75
60.75
66.50
95.25
97.50
65.50
137.00
62.00
179.00
16.75
46.00
92.50
146.75
24.50
77.25
82.25
64.75 .
64.00
98.75
36.25
81.50
78.25
29.25
14.75
59.00
102.25
21.50
37.50
89.00
73.75
55.25
79.00
66.SO
46'. 50
47.50

86.50
258.00
100.00
36.50
326.00
37.00
118.50
80.00
255.50
121.50
133.00
190.50
195.00
131.00
274.00
124.00
358.00
33.50
92.00
185.00
293.50
49.00
154.50
164.50

129.50
128.00
197.50
72.50
163.00
156.50
58.50
29.50
118.00
204.50
43.00
75.00
178.00
147.50
110.50
158.00
133.00
93.00
95.00

223
$25.00
Home Tax

175.00
575.00
175.00
125.00
500.00
200.00
300.00
125.00
350.00
375.00
550.00
400.00
375.00
175.00
225.00
375.00
375.00
125.00
325.00
375.00
125.00
225.00
500.00
325.00
375.00
250.00
175.00
275.00
350.00
125.00
75.00
150.00
475.00
175.00
100.00

250.00
500.00
225.00
275.00
550.00
375.00
200.00

Total

465.80
1,446.60
519.00
253.80
1;597.20
334.40
709.20
395.00
1;196.60
794.80
1,037.60
1,060.60
1,040.00
629.20
1,134.80
805.80
1,570.60
107.20
435.40
956.00
1,356.20
298.80
751.40
1,073.40
773.40
823.60
910.00
429.00
830.60
889.80
321.20
176.40
543.60
1,177.40
329.60
352.00
844.60
1,036.00
601.60
810.60
1,030.60
710.60
539.00

225

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

224

Lodge

Home
Home
General
Fund Maintenance Building
Number

Chowchilla ....................485
Caledonia ........................486
Vallejo ............................487
Patterson ........................488
East Bay ........................489
Corcoran ........................ 490
Woodstock ......................491
Garvanza .........................492
Atascadero ...................... 493
Acorn .............................. 494
Lebanon ..........................495
Riverdale ........................496
Fremont ..........................497
Stockton ......................... .498
Capital City ....................499
Roosevelt ........................500
Westwood ......................501
Harbor ............................502
Point .............................. :.503
Seaside .......... /.................504
Silver Cord .................... 505
Mt. Olive ........................506
El Segundo ....................507
Joppa ................................508
Benj. Franklin ..............509
Cupertino .....................;.. 510
Sunnyvale ...................... 511
Palms ..............................512
Cahuenga ........................513
Argonne ..........................514
Vermont Square ............515
Taft ...................,..............516
Mt. Vernon ....................517
La Jolla ..........................518
Euclid ..............................519
Ionic ................................520
Piedmont .......................:521
Sunrise ............................522
Bellflower ........................523
Catalina Island ..............524
Geo. Washington............525
Bay City ..... :.................. 526
Covenant ....................... 527

61.75
145.85
246.40
73.00
292.80
85.80
161.70
161.40
42.25
290.75
303.25
63.55
297.65
110.15
153.80
147.25
189.35
144.80
114.90
324.30
248.50
356.50
185.20
45.65
234.30
76.45
100.35
228.45
327.25
' 341.15
332.30
232.45
239.60
126.40
329.70
292.00
201.35
188.80
176.05
118.00
310.30
189.10
315.45

13.75
40.25
61.00
20.00
72.00
22.00
40.50
41.00
11.25
68.75
76.25
15.75
62.25
29.75
37.00
36.25
42.75
37.00
28.50
74.50
62.50
82.50
43.00
12.25
59.50
19.25
27.75
49.25
81.25
84.75
84.50
49.25
54.00
31.00
70.50
65.00
52.75
47.00
38.25
30.00
74.50
46.50
69.25

27.50
80.50
122.00
40.00
144.00
44.00
81.00
82.00
22.50
137.50
152.50
31.50
124.50
59.50
74.00
72.50
85.50
74.00
57.00
149.00
125.00
165.00
86.00
24.50
119.00
38.50
55.50
98.50
162.50
169.50
169.00
98.50
108.00
62.00
141.00
130.00
105.50
94.00
76.50
60.00
149.00
. 93.00
138.50

$25.00
Home Tax

175.00
100.00
375.00
75.00
450.00
150.00
250.00
175.00
50.00
550.00
475.00
75.00
775.00
25.00
300.00
150.00
400.00
175.00
150.00
600.00
400.00
725.00
275.00
25.00
250.00
100.00
50.00
575.00
550.00
450.00
375.00
525.00
525.00
125.00
800.00
650.00
150.00
225.00
350.00
150.00
450.00
300.00
775.00

Lodge
Total

278.00
366.60
804.40
208.00
958.80
301.80
533.20
459.40
126.00
1,047.00
1,012.00
185.80
1,259.40
224.40
564.80
406.00
717.60
430.80
350.40
1,147.80
836.00
1,329.00
589.20
107.40
662.80
234.20
233.60
951.20
1,121.00
1,045.40
960.80
905.20
926.60 .
344.40
1,341.20
1,137.00
509.60
554.80
640.80
358.00
983.80
628.60
1,298.20

Number

Beverly Hills ..................528
Loyalty ..:......................... 529
Sun Garden ....................530
Alexandria ......................531
Smyrna ............................532
Azure ..............................533
Forest Hill ....................534
Alex. Hamilton ..............535
Seal Rock ......................536
Utopia .............................. 537
Ascot ..............................538
Belvedere ........................539
Queen Beach ..................540
H. M. Stephens ............541
Lankershim .................... 542
Signal ..............................543
Glendale .......................... 544
Jonathan ..........................545
Gabriel ............................546
Arcadia ..........................547
Triangle ..........................548
Justice ......................:.......549
Seaport ............................ 550
Lakeshore ........................ 551
Semper Vireos ..............552
Golden City .................... 553
Educator ........................ .-.554
White Pine ....................555
"Fairfax ..........................556
Hermosa .......................... 557
Pt. Firmin ...................... 558
Craftsman ........................559
Plymouth ........................560
E. San Diego ................ 561
Pyramid .......................... 562
So. Park .................... ~ ... 563
Foothill ............................564
West Adams .................. 565
Jas. A. Garfield ...............566
Searchlight ....................567
Park Boulevard ..............568
Chateau Thierry ............ 569
Military Service ............570

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

114.50
87.00
163.50
62.50
30.50
91.50
56.00
56.50
59.50
209.50
105.50
100.00
60.00
130.00
111.50
155.00
211.50
83.00
73.50
54.00
56.50
78.00
79.00
104.00
60.00
41.50
83.50
45.50
46.00
75.50
126.50
111.50
81.00
100.50
78.00
155.00
86.50
101.00
57.00
180.00
87.50
72.00
105.50

400.00
625.00
175.00
125.00
100.00
250.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
1,025.00
450.00
300.00
150.00
175.00
400.00
650.00
775.00
450.00
400.00
50.00
275.00
175.00
200.00
300.00
225.00
75.00
425.00
200.00
150.00
575.00
600.00
225.00
450.00
625.00
425.00
850.00
275.00
625.00
275.00
450.00
350.00
325.00
550.00

805.40
975.40
742.20
340.00
209.60
·· 571.80
399.20
352.80
300.40
1.802.40
838.60
655.00
358.00
613.00
803.80
1,217.00
1,552.80
768.60
676.20
230.80
482.80
446.60
477.80
671.80
449.00
216.80
737.20
370.60
315.20
877.60
1,074.80
609.80
763.20
1.024.60
725.60
1,445.00
589.80
1,011.20
490.40
1,093.00
669.00
591.40
938.60

233.65
219.90
321.95
121.25
63.85
184.55
115.20
118.05
111.15
463.15
230.35
205.00
118.00
243,00
236.55
334.50
460.55
194.10
165.95
99.80
123.05
154.60
159.30
215.80
134.00
79.55
186.95
102.35
96.20
189.35
285.05
217.55
191.70
248.85
183.60
362.50
185.05
234.70
129.90
373.00
187.75
158.40
230.35

57.25
43.50
81.75
31.25
15.25
45.75
28.00
28.25
29.75
104.75
52.75
50.00
30.00
65.00
55.75
77.50
105.75
41.50
36.75
27.00
28.25
39.00
39.50
52.00
30.00
20.75
41.75
22.75
23.00
37.75
63.25
55.75
40.50
50.25
39.00
77.50
43.25
50.50
28.50
90.00
43.75
36.00
52.75

GRAND LODGE OF CALIJ<'ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

226
Lodge

Number

Home
Home
General
Fund Maintenance Building

170.95
(}1 rancis K. Sha.ttuck ... i .. 571
181.05
Ja!. Madison ............. L.572
51.75
;Hmcrest ..,.. :.:, ..............,..573
186.20
..............
574
Hackett
·s. w.
60.25
'Fort Crook ................. :.:575
91.50
Valley
.........
:
..
576
El Cajon
326.15
'Soonyside ....... ,.......... ... :.. 577
272.45
·Progressive .. :..............c..578
132.45
'Warren G. Harding .... 579
45.90
Santa Maria .............. .... 580
199.40
Security ....... ~ ........:........ .-581
74.90
·Rialto .....:c ....................,..'582
121.55
.........................
c
.:583
'Wasco
151.95
•Harding .. :.......................584
269.10
.................
·
..
.585
Manchestet
110.90
'Carden Grove ................586
244.30
'Valley Forge .............,..587
125.20
El Sereno · ...................... 588
80.80
·Kauai ..................................589
136.75
Compass ...................... :...590
68.55
·Escalon ........................ :.. :591
87.70
•Tujunga .i'.....................:...592
306.45
AH States '.... :.:.................593
276.50
I Service ... :...... :................. 594
157.45
Alex. Graham Bell ........595
226.25
·Guardian ...........:................596
92.40
Truth .....•.... .'..................:597
131.25
·Pearl Harbor ............ .'.. :598
143.95
' Carmelita ,,................. J .. 599
134.00
:Lynwood ..•.....•............... •...600
87.80
Grizzly ...:·.....::•............. :-. ..601
l5L30
-Melrose ...!.... :;:: ............ '...602
192.65
'Dimond ........ :.•..................603
177.85
·Jubilee ..... :.......:............ :...604
248.05
' Gfassell Park ............ .'...605
106.20
' Sojourner .....'. ..................f/J7
261.05
Granada .:.................... :...608
125.40
Provident .....'............... :...609
116.25
' Elmhurst ·.....·...................6-10
111.00
Owensmouth ..................611
87.90
Temple City ..................612
108.20
'Three Pillars ................613
252.40
Larchmont ......................614

41.75
38.25
13.75
48.00
16.25
22.50
74.75
64.25
29.25
13.50
46.00
18.50
20.75
36.75
61.50
23.50
54.50
28.00
22.00
33.75
15.75
20.50
69.25
67.50
34.25
51.25
21.00
31.25
36.75
30.00
22.00
34.50
42.25
35.25
58.25
28.00
53.25
26.00
31.25
30.00
18.50
28.00
46.00

83.50
76.50
27.50
96.00
32.50
45.00
149.50
128.50
58.50
27.00
92.00
B7.00
41.50
73.50
123.00
47.00
109.00
56.00
44.00
67.50
31.50
41.00
138.50
135.00
68.50
102.50
42.00
62.50
73.50
60.00
44.00
.69.00
84.50
70.50
116.50
56.00
106.50
52.00
62.50
60.00
37.00
56.00
92.00

$25.00
Home Tax

250.00
350.00
50.00
225.00
75.00
150.00
550.00
400.00
225.00
300.00
175.00
425.00
'275.00
575.00
325.00
475.00
275.00
100.00
175.00
125.00
225.00
675 .00
350.00
350.00
425.00
250.00
250.00
250.00
350.00
75.00
300.00
400.00
600.0D
350.00
100.00
725.00
400.00
125.00
75.00
250.00
100.00
850.00

Total

546.20
645.80
143.00
555.20
184.00
309.00
1,100.40
865.20
445.20
86.40
637.40
305.40
·608.80
537.20
1,028.60
506.40
882.80
484.20
246.80
413.00
240.80
374.20
1.189.20
829.00
610.20
805.00
405.40
475.00
504.20
574.00
228.80
554.80
719.40
883.60
772.80
290.20
1.145.80
603.40
335.00
276.00
393.40
292.20
1,240.40

Lodge

Numbe1·

Hei:net ..............................615
Seal Beach ......................616
Big Bear .........................,617
Southland ......................618
Neptune ..........................619
Peninsula ........................620
The Gardens ..................621
Atwater .......................... 622
Menorah ..........................623
Fortitude ..........................624
·Angeles Mesa ................625
Chula Vista ...... ........... :.. 626
Lamanda Park ..............627
Beacon of the West .... 628
Fairview .......... .... ............629
Ingleside ..........................630
Benevolence ....................631
N ormal Heights .... .-.......632
Poinsettia ........................633
Victorville ...................... 634
Riverside ........................635
John Marshall .............. 636
Palisades ........................637
Indian Rock .................. 638
Composite ........................639
Veritas ............................ 640
]as. A. Foshay ..............641
La Cumbre .................... 642
Alta Loma ......................643
Lomita ............................ 644
A. F. E. Irwin ................645
Metropolitan ..................646
Hawthorne ......................647
Damascus ........................ 648
Florence ..........................649
La Brea .......................... 650
Menlo Park ....................651
Crescenta Valley .......... 652
Fontana ............................ 653
Jordan ..............................654
Monte Vista ..................655
Citro! ..............................656
]. D. Spreckels ..............657

I\

22

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

73.75
66.45
31.50
196.30
130.45
60.15
169.90
148.90
252.55
110.30
371.10
125.05
115.10
119.15
117.95
104.30
225.20
187.60
232.90
88.40
132.00
129.10
181.70
84.45
117.70
64.25
82.05
69.25
317.40
109.65
132.30
131.50
69.70
180.70
196.75
169.75
63.85
105.35
81.20
136.60
310.20
184.30
269.55

100.00
125.00
100.00
550.00
175.00
150.00
275.00
250.00
800.00
225.00
850.00
275.00
250.00
325.00
375.00
200.00
1,300.00
525.00
600.00
150.00
375.00
325.00
525.00
250.00
225.00
75.00
125.00
125.00
875.00
275.00
525.00
400.00
125.00
525.00
550.00
325.00
100.00
550.00
225.00
425.00
1,225.00
175.00
1,025.00

230.00
234.20
154.00
864.80
393.20
254.40
560.40
499.40
1,189.80
408.80
1,465.60
484.80
444.60
518.40
558.20
377.80
1,609.20
829.60
978.40
301.4-0
582.00
533.60
828.20
392.20
419.20
188.00
261.80
243.00
1,360.40
451.40
730.80
599.00
241.20
812.20
863.00
611.00
209.60
723.60
360.20
648.60
1,664.20
492.80
1,461.80

18.75
14.25
7.50
39.50
29.25
14.75
38.50
33.50
45.75
24.50
81.50
28.25
26.50
24.75
21.75
24.50
28.00
39.00
48.50
21.00
25.00
26.50
40.50
19.25
25.50
16.25
18.25
16.25
56.00
22.25
24.50
22.50
15.50
35.50
38.75
38.75
15.25
22.75
18.00
29.00
43.00
44.50
55.75

37.50
28.50
15.00
79.00
58.50
29.50
77.00
67.00
91.50
49.00
163.00
56.50
53.00
49.50
43.50
49.00
56.00
78.00
97 .00
42.00
50.00
53.00
81.00
38.50
51.00
32.50
36.50
32.50
112.00
44.50
49.00
45.00
31.00
71.00
77.50
77.50
30.50
45.50
36.00
58.00
86.00
89.00
111.50

228
Lodge

l'HOCEEDlNGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALUl'ORNIA
Home
General
Home
Number
Fund Maintenance Building

Livingston ......................658
La Habra ......:.................659
Baldwin Park ................660
Malta ..............................661
Henry Knox ..................662
Ojai ...............................,..663
Oasis ................................664
Kaweah ....:.......................665
Reseda .............................666
Meridian ....................... c..667
San Gorgonio ................668
John P . Jarman ............669
Greenleaf ........................670
San Clemente ................671
Laguna Beach ................672
Far West :.......................673
Los Cerritos .................. 574
Modesto ..........................675
Altadena ........................ U.D.
Willow Glen................ U.D.
Liberal Arts ................ U.D.
TOTALS

83.90
142.70
75.40
102.10
126.95
55.25
84.85
42.15
73.70.
232.70
67.20
84.75
152.50
42.75
58.55
87.45
81.60
105.40
96.15
91.35
26.10

13.50
30.50
16.00
21.50
21.75
11.25
15.25
9.75
15.50
40.50
13.00
13.75
22.50
8.75
10.75
14.25
14.00
16.00
14.75
12.75
6.50

27.00
61.00
32.00
43.00
43.50
22.50
30.50
19.50
31.00
81.00
26.00
27.50
45.00
17.50
21.50
28.50
28.00
32.00
29.50
25.50
13.00

$25.00
Home Tax

300.00
400.00
300.00
300.00
500.00
175.00
300.00
75.00
200.00
775.00
175.00
350.00
725.00
175.00
175.00
375.00
300.00
450.00
650.00
650.00
300.00

Total

424.40
634.20
423.40
466.60
692.20
264.00
430.60
146.40
320.20
1,129.20
281.20.
476.00
945.00
244.00
265.80
505.20
423.60
603.40
790.40
779.60
345.60

-------

..........................$137.598.10 $35.151.50 $70,303.00 $161,475.00 $404,527.60
RODERT
CHAS.

The report was adopted.

229

E. ALLEN,
D. BARNETT,
Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCING
MASONIC TEMPLES
Io the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California :
During the year, eighteen Lodges, or hall associations, have conducted correspondence with your committee. Some of these were
only inquiries as to how to proceed to raise funds for their projects.
The committee has reviewed and approved the following buildings :
Santa Ana Masonic Temple Association, located at Santa Ana,
conducted a campaign and raised $174,715.00 in pledges, for the purpose of erecting a new building. On September 30, 1930, $94,563.00
had been collected on their subscriptions, and the contract for the
erection of the building had been let. This, we believe, has been the
largest project undertaken during the past year.
The South Pasadena Masonic Temple Association conducted a
campaign and raised $105,000.00, and arc proceeding with the erection
of their building.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, located in San Diego, conducted a
campaign and raised $75,000.00 for the financing of their Temple.
The committee app.roved the purchase of a lot and erection of
a building by Santa Paula Lodge No. 291, to cost $55,000.00.
The committee approved the proposition of La Mesa Lodge No .
407. located at La Mesa, to expend $23,500.00 in the· erection and
furnishing. of a new Temple.
Permission was given to Altadena Lodge, U. D.. located at
A ltadena, to purchase a lot and construct a building costing approximately $13,500.00.
Approval was given to Santa Maria Lodge to remodel their olrl
huilding at a cost of approximately $15,000.00.
Permission was . given to Beverly Hills Masonic Temple Association to. purchase a lot costing $10,000.00
Permission was given to Bell Masonic Temple Association, located at Bell, to purchase a building which had already been erected
for hall purposes, the purchase price of which was $21 ,602.00.
Permission was granted to San Buenaventura Masonic Temple
Association at Ventura, to borrow an additional $6,000.00 on }heir
building, which had just been completed.
Brother Greig, of our committee, handled the following projects,
and on his recommendation, approval was given :
Hiram Lodge No. 43, located at Eldorado. Permission to expend $500.00 in remodeling their hall.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Martinez Lodge No. 41, located at Martinez. Permission was
g'.ven to erect a new building costing not to exceed $43,500.00
Escalon Lodge No. 591, located at Escalon. Permission was
given to erect a building costing $8,500.00, the lot for same haying
been donated by Brother Otto Peterson.
Correspondence was had, or interviews held, with the following
Lodges who have been contemplating building, but have, so far, not
asked for permission to expend funds.
Alta Loma Lodge o. 64.3, Long Beach.
Searchlight Lodge No. 567, Long Beach.
Orange Grove Masonic Building Association, located at Orange.
Glassell Park Lodge No. 605, located in Los Angeles.
Tuscan Lodge No. 261. located in Williams, has been granted
permission to proceed with a building program to the extent of
approximately $25,000.
Your committee feels that the brethren in general are pleased to
cooperate with the committee in the matter of the construction of
Masonic buildings, the principal idea being. how to raise the funds
with the least possible effort and expense. Somt: funds have been
raised by the sale of stock, others by the sale of certificates which
the Lodge or building association agrees to redeem on the death of
the subscriber, and others by outright donation. Of course, the latter
is the most desirable way to raise funds, if the Lodge can develop
th e proper, giving spirit.
The principal aim of your committee is to be helpful and constructive, keeping in mind the one thought that as little money a~
possible should be raised by mortgages.
ROBERT GREIG,

w. P. FILMER,
\V. P. ]EFFRJES,
Committee.

Report adopted.

231

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASONRY
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as
follows:
At the 79th Communication of Grand Lodge, the M.'.W.'.Grand
Master Will H. Fischer reported the activity of some Clandestine
Bodies in California and recommended the appointment of the Committee to investigate and repo rt upon the matter. Owing to a change
in the personnel in this Committee the work was not actually
entered upon until the early part of this year. However, although
the difficulties confronting your Committee were great we have been
able to collect concrete evidence of the existence, identity and activity
of all of the Clandestine Bodies now operating in this State.
There is. some Clandestine activity in the northern part of the
State but most of this irregular Masonry is centered in the Sau
Joaquin Valley and south of the Tehachapi.
Other than the membership in the co-M<1sonic Bodies, there are
very few of the White Race participating in this Clandestine activity,
most of it being among Negroes, Filipinos and Mexicans.
We find that the Clandestine Bodie.s opera ting in California are
made up of the following:
1. Twenty Lodges chartered by the so-called Supremo Gran
Oriente de! Rito
acional Maxicano, having headquarters in San
Bernardino, and of which one, Samuel W. Kelly, a Mexican, in
spite of his name, was the Deputy Grand Master. We are lately informed that Mr. Kelly has recently died, and so far as your Committee has learned, there seems now to be no head to the organization
in California.
2. Three subordinate Lodges operating under charters granted
by the Grand Lodge "Benito Juarez" of Torreon, State of Coahuila,
Mexico.
3. One colored Grand Lodge known as Most Worshipful
Hiram of Tyre Grand Lodge , Ancient Free and Accepted Masons.

This spurious Grand Lodge is not to be confounded with the
Most Worshipful Sovereign Grand Lodge of F ree and Accepted
Masons, which, while a colored organization, has received quasi recognition of our Grand Lodge.
4. Certain Lodges of which we have identified three in Southern California, though there are doubtless many others operating
under charters granted by a so-called co-Masonic Grand Lodge with

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

headquarters in Larkspur, Colorado. This alleged Grand co-Masonic
Lo"dge is headed by one, Louis Gazieu, and whose title is "Most
Puissant Grand Commander."
1. As to all these Bodies we respectfully present the following
information. The Lodges operating under the Rito N acional Maxicano, are twenty in number and they owe allegiance to the Supreme
Grand Orient with headquarters in Mexico City. One, Manuel Estavan Ramirez, has the title of Grand Master. This rite claims to
have been organized in 1826, composed of ninety-four Lodges, Chapters, Councils and Consistaries, and is considered Clandestine even
in Mex.ico. The twenty Lodges located in Southern California are
as follows:
The Lodge "Dante," No. 34. Ruben LaVega, Master, 1956 East
First Street, Los Angeles.
"Patria" No. 35, Manuel Beltran, Master, 736 Towne Ave., Los
Angeles.
Chapter "Benito Juarez," No, 14. Jose R. Lopez, Master, 4140
East Second Street, Los Angeles ..
In Pasadena there are the following:
"Hiram Abif," No. 22. Policarpo L. Cruz, Master, Box 591,
Pasadena.'
"Fenix," No. 46. Ramon Gonzales Mercado, Master, P. 0.
Box 458, Pasadena.
Chapter "Iris," No. 14. Orcadio Jaime, Master, P . . 0. Box
591, Pasadena.
In San Bernardino there are the following:
"Minerva," No. 5. Josephine Kelly, probably the wife of Samuel W. Kelly, Master, 1030 Seventh Street.
"Reconstruction," No. 321. Ernesto Lopez; Master, 760 L Street.
"Aum," No. 10. Elegio Romo, Master, 954 Seventh Street.
Chapter "Rosiclas," No. 16. Felipa Esquivel, Master, 1030
Seventh Street.
In Calexico:
"Socrates..'' No. 18. Cristobal ,Aguilon, Master, P. 0. Box 244.
"Imperial," No. 18. Rosendo A. Espino, Master, P. 0. Box 963.
In Santa Paula:
"Emelia Carranza," No. 5.l.
Box 417.

Jose G. Gonzales, Maste~, P. 0.

GRAND LODGJ<J OF CALIFORNIA

Upland:
"Leal tad," No. 61.

233

Leonardo Padillo, Master, General Delivery.

Corona:
"Samuel R. Kelly," No. 54.
South Main Street.

Calixto J. Rubalcada, Master, 306

San Pedro:
"Cosmos," No. 5.

Marguerita ·Chavez, Master, P. 0. Box 1054.

Wilmington:
"Osiris," No. 36.

Caledoino Alvarado, Master, P. 0. Box 665.

San ta Barbara:
"Acacia," No. 16.

Andras Melendez, Master, 626 Estado Street.

Santa Ana:
"Helios," No. 48.
Street.

Vicente Mercurio, Master, 900 East Fourth

San Diego:
"Obreros de! Porvenir," No. 33.
72 Seventeenth Street.

Fabian G. Quintanor, Master,

2. As to the Bodies operating under the Grand Lodge "Benito
Juarez" of "Torreon": This Grand Lodge of Mexico issued a
Charter some seven years ago to Minerva Lodge No. 30 at Los
Angeles and later on to Hiram Lodge No. 45 of San Bernardino,
and still later to a Lodge known as "Oriente," No. 41 of San Pedro,
California. The Master of Hiram Lodge, No. 45, at San Bernardino, is Peter Samano. The Master of Oriente Lodge No. 41 is
Rafael Martinez and Antonio Estrada is Secretary. These three
Lodges s'e em to be in charge of one Emelio Espinoza of Los Angeles,
residing at 2121 E. Florence Avenue, that city, under the title qj
Deputy Gr.and Master. Their Rite is said to consist of nine degrees. Their initiation fee is $70.00. We are informed that th~ir
membership fotals about 7 5 for all · three Lodges. These Lodges
work in Spanish .and have no American members.
We are informed that the Grand Lodge Benito Juarez of Mexico would like to receive recognition from our Grand Lodge. I was
informed by Mr. Espinoza that his Grand Lodge was withdrawing
the Charters of the three Lodges above named and apparently was
preparing to withdraw from California. This was no doubt a preliminary move toward an application . for recognition to our . Grand
Lodge. ,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

234

3.

As to Negro Masonry:

A Clandestine Negro Grand Lodge known as "The Most Worshipful of Hiram of Tyre Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted
Masons (colored) is operating in California. It was originally organized under the name of "Most Worshipful R. J. Fletcher Grand
Lodge of A. F. and A. M. and incorporated under California law
with offices in Sacramento in May, 1910. Later in 1913, by order
of the Superior Court of Sacramento County, the name was changed
to "Most Worshipful Hiram of Tyre Grand Lodge." We are informed that this organization now has some twenty-three
subordinate Lodges scattered throughout the State ranging from Redding on the north to, San Diego on the south. While it was organized originally for Negroes only, we are informed that in 1927 or
1928 certain Filipinos either acquired the Charter of the organization or were granted a dispensation to organize Lodges of Filipinos
or of Negroes and Filipinos. It is said that one L. P. Lee, colored,
is Grand Master. Our last information is that he is employed in
some capacity in the Engineering Department of Los Angeles
County. One W. H. H. Robinson, colored, is his secretary. He is
in the automobile distributing business in Los Angeles.
In June of 1929, this so-called Grand Lodge met in Pasadena,
L. P. Lee presiding as Grand Master. D. E. Taylor, colored, residing at 14570 22nd Street, Los Angeles, is a prominent officer and
was a candidate for Grand Master at the Pasadena meeting in opposition to L. P. Lee.
A Lodge known as "Ezra," No. 11, was organized in Stockton
in 1926 or 1927 by one H. M. Fieldhouse (white), assisted by a
Filipino named "Karp." They initiated about 35 men, mostly Filipinos. They meet at 114 South America Street, Stockton, California. A formal installation of the officers of this Lodge was conducted
by said Fieldhouse upon December 15, 1928, at the old Auditorium,
134 N. Eldorado. Stre_et, Stockton.
We are -informed that one H. M. Fairfield (white) and the Filipino Karp have instituted the following Lodges of Filipinos or mixed
Filipinos and Negroes: "General Antonio Luna," No. 15, at Salinas;
Aklan Lodge, U. X. p., near Livermore, California; "Luana Lodge/'
U. D .. Carpenter Hall, Valencia near Market Street, San Francisco.
Fieldhouse seems to be in considerable authority and his address is
gi~en us as 3476 18th Street, San Francisco.
In June of 1930 this organization held its meeting in Los
Angeles with about 250 delegates attending. A Los Angeles Lodge
of this group is named "Malachi," No. 9, composed of Negroes and
Filipinos. There are numerous other Lodges in Fresno and surrounding Valley towns.

!l3ii

Hiram of Tyre Grand Lodge is said to be affliated with the
Grand Lodge of the. Uni.ted States" with headquarters at
3404 i~t. Antonie Street,. Detroi.t,. Michigan,. .yhere it is said that a
gene'fl assembly is scheduled to lle held in 1932.
A\nother Negro Grand Lodge was organized and incorporated
under the name of "Most Worshipful Alpha Grand Lodge of Ancient
Free and Accepted Masons of California in September, 1923, in Los
Angeles County, with J. W. Dupree, J. F. Purseley, V. M. Cole,
W. H. Prioleau and Houston Mays as incorporators. · It is stated
in the Articles .of Incorporation that this alleged Grand Lodge is a
part of the United Grand Lodge of England and was organized at
the instance of the Most Worshipful King Solomon Grand Lodge,
A. F. and A. M. of Texas. We are unable to find any Lodges
which this Grand Lodge has chartered or any evidence that it is
functioning in any way whatsoever.
There is another Negro Grand Lodge, the formal title of which
is "The Sovereign Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California," which is· quasi-legitimate. It has a sort of qualified standing
with our Grand Lodge. They are also known as the Prince Hall
Masons, which is the name of a holding corporation for their. Grand
Lodge. They seem to have two headquarters, one at 12090 Central
Avenue, Los Angeles, and 1545 Steiner Street, San Francisco. T,'hi~·
group of Masons seem to have organized a complete complement of
York Rite Bodies to-wit: Lodges, Chapters, Councils and Commanderies, also Eastern Star Chapters and a Shrine.
"Ge~eral

4. As to Co-Masonry:. There seem to be two distinct groups of
Co-Masonic Bodies in California. .One of these groups was organized by the various Theosophical societies, but we are informed that
td some extent these Lodges have been dissolved on account of certain conceptions and directions coming to them from the Theosophical societies.
Another group of Co-Masonic Lodges are a part of the National
Co-Masonic Institution with headquarters at Larkspur, Colorado.
The head of this National Institution is one Louis Gazieu, and his
title is Most Puissant Grand Commander. They seem to have a
Rite of 32 ceremonial and one governing degree divided into a system
of Lodges, Chapters, Councils and Areopagus. They have organized
at least three Subordinate Lodges in Southern California, one known
as Hollywood Lodge, located at Hollywood Boulevard and Serrano
Street. Another one is in Long Beach and still another one in San
Diego.
We believe that we have contacted all of the irregular Grand
Bodies which have organized Lodges in California. On account of

I

I
236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

the difficulties ·st.1rrounding the task it has not always been po~'ible
to obtain as specific and precise information concerning the o cers
of the various Lodges as was desirable. We believe that if this
work is continued full and exhaustive information may be plac~d at
the disposal of Grand Lodge for such action as may be deemed
necessary in the premises. While the work of these Lodges, generally s'peaking, seems to be in the hands of Negroes, Filipinos and
Mexicans, with the exception of the Co-Masonic Lodges, yet it is
apparent that white men and Americans are being drawn into the
Clandestine operations and action of some sort is considered to be
advisable. We do not deem it the part of wisdom for Grand Lodge
to remain quiescent while spurious Masonry is being carried on at
its doors. In this connection we are reminded of the decision of the
United States Supreme Court announcing the principle that a regular and bona-fide organization might be precluded by )aches from
complaining of the piracy of its Ritual, Landmarks, Cerem.:>n,les and
name by a Clandestine and irregular organization.
In conclusion, we beg to acknowledge the indebtedness of the
Committee to Brother Charles Sones, Inspector of the 108 District;
George. W. Feetham, Inspector of the 104 District, and George C.
Smithan, Inspector of the 92 District, for valuable information and
services rendered your committee.
WILLIAM A. ScHRE.IDER, Chairman.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and . General Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

237

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
.M.'.W.'.Gra11d Lodge of California:
our Board of Control presents herewith a report of its activities ince the close of the annual communication of Grand Lodge
in 19 9.
•our meetings of the Board have been held during the year, as
folio s: At Oakland, California, on November 23, 1929; at Los
Angelfs, March 8, 1930; at Fresno, June 14, 1930, and at San Francisco, October 13-14, 1930.
·
In accordance with the custom established, the Board of Control has given notice to the various Boards of Relief of these meetings and in every case the several Boards have sent d.elegates to
attend. The meetings, therefore, in addition to the business transac·
tions, have served as conferences for the interchange of experiences,
and comparisons of methods and we believe have been of service to
the Boards of Relief.
The Board of Control is pleased to report that Boards of Relief
and individual Lodges are now working in complete accord with the
established procedure of this Board, ancl that with efficiency and
regularity have come greater economy.
·
In its four years' existence the Board of Control has submitted
to and has had approved by Grand Lodge plans for more effective
service and for standardization of the work of the Boards of Relief.
The results of its efforts are seen in:
1. Uniformity in annual reports.
2. Uniformity in financial and relief records.
3. Regular annual audit of all Boards.
4. · Uniform By-Laws and compacts.
5. All Board officers now carry Fiduciary Insurance.
6. All Boards now carry Compensation Insurance.
7. Great reduction in the total sums for reimbursement granted
by Grand Lodge.
8. The incorporation in the Constitution of Board of Control
,provisions.
9. The more economical administration of Employment Service
. and Boards of Relief.
To ·

Reports of Boards
The Board of Control has continued 'the procedure of permitting
each Board of Relief to have made an annual audit of its accounts
and affairs by its own auditor. We believe this to be, not only less

239

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

t;1t ,\ND l,Ol 1GI': OF CALIB'OI:NIA

expensive but more satisfactory in every way to the individual Bo rd.
The Board of Control appreciates the promptness with which t es e
reports have been filed.
Financial rep orts have been filed promptly ; and the reports ave
been complete in every detail. T.he new report blanks have be· e~n
. sed
without exception. The use of the uniform records has assiste the
Board of Control in preparing its report. This Board submits erewith and makes a part of its report, a total showing comparis n of
an'n ual reports of 1929 and 1930 ; a table showing conderised re eipts
and disbursements for 1930 and a summary showing the sta us ·at
the respective Boards of Relief for th e close of the fiscai year 1930.

During the period covered by the report the Lodges conducted
seve ty-nine funerals at an av erage cost of $110.00, including all
char es.
he automobile used by the Secretary is his property.
he Secq:tary and Treasurer are under bond each in the sum of
$2,000 00. This insurance is carried by the Pacific Indemnity Company.
C mpensation insurance in the sum of $6,600.00 was carried by
Genera Accident Fire & Life Assurance Corp.

231

Statistics
Most qf the statistical reports of the several ' Boards of Relief
as prepared by the respective Secretaries are full , complete and generally satisfactory. Much of the information contained therein is
shown by the audit of the public ;i,ccountants arid in this there is
afforded two m eans of verification of their accuracy.
The facts set forth are invaluable to the Board of Control and
should be interesting and useful to th e Boards of ·Eoltlief, as thereby
it may be seen wherein improv ements in administration can be
achieved. Uniformity in .operation in all particulars cannot be
attained. Every one familiar with the conditions throughout the
State must understand that each locality has its own peculiar problems. But in spite of all this the following statistics should have
deep signification to all interested in the relief work of the fraternity.
Boards of Relief
The follo wing review of the operation of the respective Boards of
Relief is based upon the reports of th e officers who have been serv-.
ing and reports which have been presented to the Board of Control
by the certified \J-Ublic accountants who audited the financial accounts
of said boards. The reports are for the twelve months ending July
31, 1930.
San Francisco. All of the San Francisco Lodges contributed to
the support of the Board, having paid a per capita asssessment of
twenty-five cents.
.
This board is comprised of one representative of each Lodge and
there are fifty-four Lodges. Two m ee tings are held each month.
The paid employees are the Secretary, who received $300.00
s;tlary and $50.00 automobile allowance monthly, and· a ty pist or ·d erk
who . ~eceived $75:00 monthly.

Cash balances on hand at July 31, 1930, were :
Cash balance of relief accourlt.. .................................. $2,959.45
Cash balance of expense account.. .............. ................ 6,326.26
Total on hand ............:............................................... ................

$9,285.71

Com position of Balance
Cash balance in Bank of Am erica, Humboldt
Branch-commercial account .................................. $4,362.07
Outstanding Checks................ ........................................
50.60

$3,801.47
Cash Balance in savings account, Bank of America,
Humboldt Branch ........ ............................................................... .
Petty cash in SiJ.fe .......................................................................... ..

5,434.24
50.00

Total accounted for (as above) ........................................ $9,285.71

The Board owns the following bonds which are kept, in safe
deposit under the control of thr ee Trust'ees independent of the Secretary and Treasurer.
Par Value
$ 5,000.00
2,000.00
4,000.00
1.000.00

$12.000.00

California Gas and Electric, 5%.
Los Angeles Pacific . Company, 4%.
Spring Valley Water C,ompany, 5.% .
Great Western Power Company, 5%.

240

PROCEEDINGS OI•' THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

241

E.~pcnditttres

Relief:
California jurisdiction............................................$5,742.14
Other jurisdictions in -U. S ...,.;............................. 9,453.08
Foreign jurisdictions............................, ................. 1,086.33
Refunds to Grand Lodge:........ ~---··························· 623.35
Contributed, Masonic Employment Bureau.... 600.00
Auditing expense..., ..........., ........,...........................
36.00
For Expense :
Salaries ...................... ,................:........-......................$5,400.00
Rent ·····.-.·······.····························································· 360.00
Automobile allowance and expense.................... 600.00
. Telephone and telegraph .........,............................ 406.44
Printing, stationery and postage........................ 145.92
Office supplies.......................;...........~......................
42.60
Miscellaneous expense............................................ 142.77
Purchase of bond.................................................... 999.99

Less contributed by Employment Bureau................................

$1 ,540.90

Receipts During the Year
Fro i Grand Lodge of California.............:..................$ 664.65
Cali prnia Lodges............................................................ 2,745.08
Other u. S. Lodges ........................................................ 9,316.09
Foreifn Lodges..................................;............................. 406.50
Individuals ........................................................................ 837.12
- - - $13,969.44
Prom per capita contributions....................................$4,998.63
Interest ............................................................................ 138.20
Balance from Employment Bureau account.. .......... 1,312.74
Funeral reimbursements ................................................ 1,352.82
l\.f;iscellaneous phone......................................................
.15
7,802.54

Total balance and receipts .................................................... $26,398.48
Disbursements

For Relief:
8,097.72
1,100.00

Total expenses.................................................................. $ 6,997.72

Oakland and Berkeley. The Oakland Board of Relief, known as
the East Bay Masonic Board of Relief, is composed of members from
the blue lodges located in Oakland and Berkeley, and holds one
meeting each month. During .the past year .a per capita assessment
has been levied in the sum of four cents.
There are two paid employees, both engaged in the relief and
employment service. The secretary receives nothing, the assistant
secretary receives $175.00 per month and a typist or clerk receives
$50.00 per month. These · amounts cover the work done for both
departments .
. . The secretary's bond .is carried in the Globe ·Indemnity Co., and
is m the sum of $2,000.00. There is one automobile used which is
insured in the Concordia Fire & Insurance Company.
· During the term covered by the report the board conducted
sixty-eight funerals at an average cost of $135.00.
Balance on hand last report... ..................................................... $ 4,626.50

California Lodges ................................................ $ 3,447.81
Other U. S. Lodges............................................ 10,609.50
Foreign Lodges....................................................
670.15
Funerals ................................................................
1,530.50
- - - - $16,257.96
For Salaries .........................................~ ...................... $ 3,845.75
Rent .......................
420.00
Telephone and Telegraph..........................................
172.86
Printing and stationery..............................................
143.42
35.00
Adding machine equipment......................................
Auto expense ..............................................................
282.44
Miscellaneous ..............................................................
251.22
5,150.69

u......................................................

Total disbursements ................................................................ $21,408.65
Balance Ju ly 31, 1930.................................:........:............ :.... $ 4,989.83
Sacramento. The Board of Relief at Sacramento is composed of
representatives from the various lodges; there is on'e meeting held
each month. During the year a per capita assessment of three cents
per member was collected. They have . two paid employees, a secretary who receives $30.00 per month and a typist or clerk who receives
$15.00 a month. · The bond of the treasurer and the secretary are each.
in the sum of $500.00 and are carri~d by qrand .Lodge.

\
24~

PROCEEDI::\GS OF THE

.

The report shows that eleven funerals were conducted by )the
~odges at the request of the Bo_ard of. Relie~. The undertaker's chfrge

1s $100.00 and the cost of openmg and closmg the grave is $15.oo,
Balance on hand last Report.................:...................................... $ 3,2)18.35
Receipts During the Year
From Grand Lodge of California.....................'...........$ 384.40
California Lodges............................................................ 280.00
Other U. S. Lodges ........................................................ 1,057.50
Foreign Lodges ................................................... :.~.... .. ..
20:00

\

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

243

uring the year seven funerals were conducted by the lodges

~a~a~~: ~~di,a:~s l:~tip:~:r7,~~-t:................................................. $ 279.62
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ...................................... ::..........:..........$ 120.00
Other U . S. Lodges........................................................ 714.13
---$
From per capita contributions ....................................$ 945.75
Subscriptions (other ·todges )........................................ 890.00

834.13

1,835.75

- - - $ 1,741.90
From per capita contributions ....................................$ 973.'76
973.76
Total balance and receipts .................................................... $ 5,964.01
Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ....................................................$ 380.21
Other U. S. Lodges ................................................ 1,441.65
Foreign Lodg~s....... ............ . .. ....................... ...........
52.50
Funerals .................................................................... 271.00
- - - $ 2,145.36
For Salaries ....................................................................$ 540.00
Telephone and tilegi;aph ...............•..............................
45.72
Printing and, stationery..................................................
1.25
15.00
Auditing, ~······················································-······~··
Miscellaneous ........................ .................................... .....: ..
5.00

Total Balance and Receipts ................................................ $ 2,949.50
Disbursame11ts
For Relief:
California Lodges....................................................$ 105.00
Other U. S. Lodges................................................ 648.48
Foreign Lodges........................................................
20.00

---$

773.48

Salaries .....: .................................................................... :...$1,800.00
Te.lephone and Telegraph............................................
3.35
P rinting and stationery................................................
4.25
Postage ..............................................................................
1.75
Typing ..............................................................................
4.30
Insurance (Wo.r kmen's compensation) ................ :::...
15.00
1,828;65

!"" .~··· .

fiJ6.9i
Total d~bm:sements...............................................~ ................, $ 2,7.5z.j3
.. Balance July 31, 1930............................................................ $ 3,211.68
· Fresno. The Fresno Board of Relief is composed of two members
from: each of the four blue lodges. They meet once· ea~ mQnth.
The report states that the per capita assessment was $945.75 during
the year but does not give the rate.
· There is J)ut one. paid employee, the sec;:retary, . who receives
$150.00 per month. During the.year special work was done by. a typist.
or clerk for which· the· sum o.f $4.30 was paid.
The secretary's bond is in the .sum of $1,000:00 and is carried. by
the Grand Lodge. Compensatimt- insurance is carried ·in the· Im.L
Insurance Company · of North Ainffica.

Total disbursements .............................................................. $ Z,602.13
Balance July 31, 1930.............................................................. $

347.37

San Jose. The San Jose Board of Relief is composed of members
from each of the five blue lodges. They have levied a per capita
assessment- .during the year of twenty-four cents. The secretary is
the only paid employee, who receives $50.00 per month. The. secretary
and treasurer are each under bond in the sum of Five Hundred
Dollars, furnished by Grand Lodge. . The automobile used is the
property of the secretary and is insured in .the Globe Indemnity
Company.
During the year the board conducted twelve funerals at an
average cost of $135.00.

244

Dis bursemc1;ts
U. S. Lodges, exclusive of California ........................ $
Rent, telephone and telegraph......................................

Balance on hand last Report.. .................................................... ..
Receipts During the Year
From Grand Lodge of California ............................$
92.50
California Lodges ....................... :..................................
645.50
Other U. S. Lodges ........................................................ 1,058.70

$ 1,796.70
From per capita contributions: ................................... $ 569.76
Int_e rest ........................................................................... .
52.99
·
Building and Loan dividend..
8.96
Miscellaneous ............................:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 165.10
796.81
Total balance and receipts .................................................... $ 3,926.10
Disbursements
For Relief:

g~~!~r~~ s~ot~~;-~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 929.70
667.60

Funerals ............................................................................ 480.00
F
S
- - - $ 2,077 .30

p~:taga~a~'.~~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 60~:~~
Refund to Grand Lodge of California........................
Miscellaneous ..................................................................

245

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

27.90
166.38
798.76

Total disbursements

$2,876.06

Balance July 31, 1930............................................................ $ 1,050.04

Richmond. The Board of Relief at Richmond is composed of the
four lodge9, ~epresented by the _Mast~rs. They me.et once each month.
The per c~p1ta assessment was ten cents during the last year. ·
No salar.ies are paid.
,
· · Their books were examined by- Ernest E~mrlc.h a~d found
correct according to their report, which is as follows:
Balance on hand last report... ................................................... ~- $ 105.47
Receipts Duri1ig the Year
U. S. Lodges, exclusive of California ......................... ,..............
Total balance and receipts ................................... - ............... $

49.00
154.47

71.00
25.00

Total dis,bursements ...................................................... ,......... $

96.00

Balance July 31, 1930............, ............................................... $

58.47

Los Angeles. All of the Los Angeles lodges contributed to the
support of . the Board, having paid a per capita assessment of sixty
cents.
This Board is composed of three representatives of each lodge
and they hold one meeting each month.
There ·a re seven paid employees; a secretary at a salary of $250.00
per month, an assistant secretary at a salary of $200.00 per month, a
typist or clerk at a salary of $125.00 per month, a field man at a salary
of $175.00 per month, a switchboard operator at a salary of $50.00 per
month. The report does not specify who the other paid employees
are, nor the amount that is paid to them.
During the period covered by the report the Board conducted
t~o hundred fifty-two funerals and the lodges conducted thirteen.
The cost of opening and closing graves, including· the grave, amounts
to $35.00, the cost of the funeral amounts from $20.00 to $25.00 (which
cost is not charged to the decedent's Lodge) the total funeral amounts
to $110.00 in the case of internment and $125.00 in the case of
cremation;
The secrefary and tre·a surer are under bond each in the sum of
$2,000.00, which insurance is carried by the Pacific Indemnity Company.
· One automobile is used in connection with the Board and the
insurance thereon is carried in the Auto Club of Southern California.
Balance on hand last report.. ......................... ,.,, ........ :.:.:....... :.: ..... c $ 6,515.86
Receipts During the Year
From Grarid Lodge of California .... :.. ;; ....... :, .......... $ 2,942.15
California Lodges........................................................
3,660.54
Other U. S. · Lodges.................................................... 23,844.79
Foreign Lodges............................................................
535.33
Interest, $136.30; Misc., $30.00................................
166.30
- - - - $31,249.ll
From per capita contributions .......................... ::.. :. $17,699.95
Bush Estate .. :...............................................................
1,800.00
Miscellaneous ..............................................................
106.56
19,606.51
Total balance and receipts .................................................... $57,371.48

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ................................................ $ 3,986:54
Other U. S. Lodges............................................ 24,372.90
Foreign Lodges................ ....................................
708.08
Unclassified ..........................................................
192.46
Refunds, G. L., $764.00; Roster, $175.00........
939.00
- - - -. $30,198.98
For Salaries .................................................................. $11,725,00
Rent ................................................................................
1,200.00
Telephone and telegraph..........................................
924.74
P~inting and stationery..............................................
697.05
Postage ................................. :........................................
270.45
Auto expense................................................................
667.79
Conducting funerals........ ............................................
3,764.54
Drugs, expenses. etc ............................. :.....................
712.66
19,962.23
Total disbursements .............................................................. .. $50,161.21
Balance July 31, 1930 ............................................................ $ 7;210.27
San Diego. This Board is conducted by members of each of the
and meets once each month. During the past year the per
capita assessment amounted to seventy-five cents.
·
The secretary is the only paid employee and his salary is $200.00
per month. The treasurer and secretary are each bonded in the sum
of $1,000.00; the report does not specify by whom the insurance is
carried.
During th~ time included in this report there were fifty-two
funerals of which the board conducted six and the lodges forty-six.
The cost of funerals vary and the report does not show the average.
Balance on hand last report.. .......... - .......................................... $ 1,032.50
lod~es

Receipts During the Year
From Grand Lodge of California .......................... $ 105.80
California LodgeJ>........................................................
1,699.50
Other U. S. Loilg.es.............................................. ......
8,054.95

~~:~~~~n:::~e~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

247

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~~:~~

1
F
- - - - $ 9,996.35
ram per capita contributions
$ 2,370.34
Interest ..........................................::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
24.94
2,395.28

Total balance and receipts .................. :................................. $13,424.13

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ............................................... . $ 1,754.83
Other U . S. Lodges ........................................... . 8,210.64
25.00
Foreign Lodges ................................................. ,,.
95.28
Miscellaneous ..................................................... .
$10,085.75
For Salaries ... :.................. ;........................................... $ 2,400.00
Telephone and telegraph ........................................... :
25 .37
Printing and stationery..............................................
36.31
Miscellaneous .. ............................................................
57.50
2,519.18
Total disbursements ........................................ ........................ $12,604.93
Balance July 31, 1930............................................................
819.20
$13,424.13
Bakersfield. The Board of Relief of Bakersfield is composed of
members of the four lodges, is managed by a chairman and secretary
and meets once each month. It collected a per capita assessment of
thirty-five cents and paid its secretary the sum of $25.00 per month.
The treasurer and secretary are each under bond in the sum of
$500.00. The report does not specify the name of the carrier.
One automobile is used in connection with the work. During the
year the lodges conducted twenty funerals. The · charges for each
was, $100.00 to the undertaker, $12.00 for opening and closing grave,
plot and marker $45.00, making a total of $157.00 each.
Balance on hand last report.. ...................................................... $

272.94

Receipts During the Year
From Grand Lodge of California ................................ $ 31.50
50.00
California Lodges ........................................................... .
Other U. S. Lodges ....................................................... . 406.10

---$

487.60

From per capita contributions .................................... $ 171.35
171.35
Total balance and receipts .................................................... $

931.89

24~

URAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

f'.ROCEEDINGS OF THE

249

Disbu.rsen11:11ts

Disbursements

For Relief:
California Lodges·-···················-·········-·--···--··--·······-$ 25.00
Other U. S. Lodges ........................................., ...... 409.27
7.00
Foreign Lodges .................. ·.·····-···-·-···-·····'······-········

---$

441.27

For Salaries ........................................................................$ 300.00
Telephone and . telegraph .........:....................................
15.06
1.00
Postage ····-·-·-·········································-···--···-·-·-···-····-····316.06
Total disbursements ................................................................ $

757.33

Bala11ce ] uly 31, 1930.......................................................... :. $

174.56

Pasadena. This Board of Relief is composed of members of the
five . lodges and is managed by a president and a secretary. They
hold meetings whenever it is necessary. The per capita assessment
during the year amounted to seventy cents.
The secretary is the only paid employee; he receives $75.00 per
month. His bond is in the sum of Five Hundred Dollars and carried in
the Pacific Indemnity Company. One automobile is used which is
insured in the Glens Falls Company.
The Board conducted twenty-six funerals, the cost being One
Hundred Five Dollars which is composed of the following items:
Undertaker, $60.00; cost of grave, $40.00; and $5.00 not specified in
the report.
Balance on hand last report ...........................................'. ............ $ 1,085.31

For Relief:
California Lodges ....................................................$1,095.00
Other U. S. Lodges................................................ 846.45
Funerals ···-····································-······················-···· 120.00
- - - $ 2,061.45
For Salal'ies ......................................................................$ 900.00
2.40
Telephone and telegraph ..........·-·---·----··-·····················10.00
Audit .:..---·-··········-···········-···-···········-·-··-·····-·····-·······---····912.40
Total disbursements ................................................................ $ 2,973.85
Balance July 31, 1930............................................................... $ 1,262.52
Percentage for Relief, 69.4%.
Percentage for Overhead, 30.6%.

Long Beach. The Board of Relief at Long Beach is composed
of members of each blue lodge and is represented by the respective
Masters and \Vardens. They hold one meeting each month. The
per capita assessment during the year is stated in report to be "8 to
12y.( cents." The secretary is the only paid employee and he receives
$225.00 per month. The secretary and the treasurer are each bonded
in the Pacific Indemnity Company in the sum of $500.00. One automobile is used, which is covered by insurance in the Ten & Twenty
Thousand Home Accident & Insurance Company. During the year
thirty-eight funerals were conducted by the Board.
Balance on hand last report ........................................................ $ 796.23

Receipts D11ring the Y r:ar

R eceipts During the Y ear

From Grand Lodge of California................................$ 780.00
California Lodges............................................................ 515.00
Other U. S. Lodges ....................................................... . 474.00
- - - $ 1,769.00
From per capita contributions....................................$1,366.40
Interest ............................................................................
15.66
1,382.06

From Grand Lodge of California................................$ 40.50
77.75
California Lodges ............................................~ ...............
Other U. S. Lodges ......................................................... 1,458.24
Foreign L<:>dges ...................................................,............ 100.00
- -- $ 1,676.49
From per capita contributions ....................................$3,766.93
Interest ..............................................................................
28.09
Funerals ............................................................................ 424.69
4,219.71

Total balance and receipts .................................................... $ 4,236.37

Total balance and receipts ................................... :................ $ 6,692.43

250

251

GRAND l.10DG E OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disb14rsements
For Relief:
California Lodges ....................................................$
Foreign Lodges........................................................
Funerals ....................................................................
Refund to supporting lodges................................

Disbw· sc111cnl s
For Relief:
California Lodges ........................ :..........................J!i 166.50
Other U. S. Lodges ................................................ 1,406.64
Foreign Lodges........................................................
50.00
Funerals .................................................................... 475.00
Grand Lodge of California....................................
1.75

---$

- - - $ 2,099.89
For Salaries ................ ......................................................$2,875.00
Rent .......................·........................................................... 180.00
Telephone and telegraph............................ ....................
56.86
Printing and stationery..................................................
35.60
Postage and miscellaneous............................................ 242.89
Advanced to Employment Bureau............................ 365.00
- - - $ 3,755.35
Total disbursements ............................................................... . $ 5,855.24
Balance July 31, 1930 ............................................................ $

837.19

Alameda. This Board of Relief is composed of members of each
of the blue lodges; the report does not state how many represent atives each lodge is entitled to. It is managed by a secretary and
they hold one meeting each month. No salaries are paid.
During the last year the board conducted three funerals. Aside
from relief extended, the board expended only ninety cents during the
period covered by the report.
Balance on hand last report.. .......................... .................... $

76.54

Receipts D1wi11g the Year
From Grand Lodge of California ................................$
California Lodges ........................................................... .
Other U . S . Lodges ....................................................... .
From person receiving loan (Calif. Lodge) ........... .

37.50
5.00
5.34
91.54

90.00
25.00
5.34
10.00

Telephone and telegraph ................................................$

139.38

.90

---$

.90

Total disbursements .......................... ,..................................... $

140.28

Balance July 31, 1930 .............................................................. $

66.60

Honolulu. This Board is supported by per capita contributions
and thi6 year it appears that there was a donation of five dollars.
There are no paid employes and there is no rent for headquarters.
Accompanying the report is a certificate of Irwin Spalding that
he has audited the books and found them correct as set forth in the
annual statements of accounts to the Board of Control.
The report is as follows:
Balance on hand last report.. ...................................................... $ 1,141.97

Receipts During the Year
From Grand Lodge of California ................................$ 265.60
California Lodges............................................................ 410.09
Other U. S. Lodges ......................:.... .-............................
52.00
Foreign Lodges ........................................ ,....................... 296.25
- - - $ 1,023.94
From per capita contributions ....................................$ 24.24
Interest .................. :........................................................... 130.00
Donation ..........................................................................
5.00

--- $

130.34

159.24

Total balance and receipts .................................................... $

206.88

Total balance and receipts .................................... ~·- · ············· $ 2,325.15

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

25.3

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dish11rseme11ts
For Relief:
California Lodges ....................................................$ 173.05
Other U. S. Lodges ............................................... . 112.29
Foreig·n Lodges .................... ,.................................. . 402.75

---$
Telephone and telegraph ...............................................$
Printing and stationery ................................................
Postage ............................................................................. .
Miscellaneous
·····················-······.----·--·······-··········-----········

688.09

27.65
21.25
5.00
38.95

- - - $ 1,772.33

92.85
Total disbursements ................................................................ $
Balance July 31, 1930.... .

o ooo••OOooo oooo oooooooooooOOOOOoooooOH00000oo•oo000000

Dislmrse111e11ts
For Relief:
California Lodges, ...................................... - ...........$ 30.00
Other U. S. Lodges ................................................ 1,440.18
Foreign Lodges ................................................... ,....
5.00
Funerals .................................................................... 115.00
Flowers ....................... :............................................ 182.15
37.20
46.46
47.25
11.00
141.91

780.94

$ 1,544.21

Your Board of Control commends the Honolulu Board of Relief
for the completeness of its report and for the economy shown by
that report, the modest sum of $92.85 being the cost of conducting
the board during the twelve months covered.

Santa Monica. The Santa Monica Boa.rd of Relief is composed of
~hr~e members of each of the blue lodges. During the year a per
capita ass~ssment was levied in the .sum of twenty-five cents. There
are no paid employes.
The. secretary i~ under bond in the sum of $1,000.00, carried by
the Pacific Indemmty Company. During the year sixteen funerals
were conducted at an average cost of $197.50.
Balance on hand last report ........................................................ $

Auditing books and misc ............................................. $
Telephone and telegraph................................................
Printing and stationery................................................
Postage ............................................................................

153.29

Receipts During the Year
From California Lodges ................................................$ 15.00
Other U. S. Lodges... .............•....................................... 1,465.24

Total disbursements .............................................................. $ 1,914.24
Balance July 31 , 1930.............................................................. $

Requests for Reimbursement
The total requests for reim.bursement approved this year amount
to $6,881.67, covering 133 cases. In comparison with last year's
requests, we are happy to announce, that this amount is nearly
$700.00 less. This year your Board of Control has had for considerat ion 100 cases from 35 other United States jurisdictions, as against 91
cases from 34 other United States jurisdictions last year; 26 cases
from 9 Foreign jurisdictions this year as against 17 cases from 8
Foreign jurisdictions last year. California cases however, this year
are more than last year, both in number and amount.
This reduction in the amount requested for reimbursement, in
the face of an abnormal economic condition, shows a marked increase
in diligence and efficiency on the part of our various Boards of
Relief, and we desire to commend them highly. Your Board of
Control also gratefully acknowledges the assistance and co-operation
of our M.". W.". Grand Master and our V.".
Grand Secretary. ·
Six of our Boards of Relief request NO reimbursement. This Board
is convinced however, that some plan should be developed looking
to a still further reduction of requests by a definite system of follow-up
by the Grand Secretary or this Board. This is most forcibly brought
to our attention by the fact that we are recommending reimbursement
in 21 cases of other jurisdictions ranging from $100.00 to $400.00 each.
Your Board of Control desires to emphasize the necessity of
information being sent out to all Boards of Relief and Lodges, of
imposters. Several cases of duplication of relief are noted. Most of
such cases appear to be not deserving. Several cases reviewed by
·this Board would indicate a tendency on the part of some of our

w:.

- - - $ 1,480.24
From per capita contributions ....................................$ 340.50
Miscellaneous .................................................................. 197.21
537.71
Total balance and receipts ................................................... . $ 2,171.24

257.00

254

255

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Board Secretaries to allow sentiment to guide their judgment. We
fully appreciate the position in which these good brethren are placed
at times, and this statement is not made in criticism, but in the spirit
of kindly admonition.
The requests for reimbursement which we have reported to the
Finance Committee with the recommendation that said request be
granted, are as follows :
Bakersfield3 Other U. S. Jurisdictions ................................$
1 Foreign jurisdiction _________________________________________ _

20.00
7.00

---$

Fresnos Other U . S. jurisdictions·-··--··-··· -···· ··· ·-·-···---~-$
2 Foreign jurisdictions ............. ---------·············--···

27.00

37.00
20.00
57.00

Los Angeles34 Other U. S. jurisdictions ................................$1,314.82
8 Foreign jurisdictions........................................
73.00
Unclassified jurisdictions,............................... 162.46
1,550.28
Oakland and Berkeley3 California Lodges .............................................. $ 219.86
20 Other U. S. jurisdictions .................................. 1,126.25
5.00
1 Foreign jurisdiction..........................................
1,351.11
Sacr.amento2 California Lodges ..... :........................................$ 10.00
10 Other U. S. jurisdictions-................................ 150.50
3 Foreign jurisdictions ....................................... .
40.00
200.50
San Francisco19 Other U . S. jurisdictions .......................... ........ $1,795.16
10 Foreign jurisdictions........................................ 891.58
2,686.74
San Jose2 ·California Lodg.es ..............................................$ 142.50
5.00
1 Other U. S. jurisdiction....................................
147.50
Santa Monica6 Other U. S. jurisdictions ..................................$ 154.00
154.00
Marin Lodge No. 1911 Foreign jurisdiction ..........................................$ 397.54
397.54 .

San Bernardino Lodge No. 3481 Other U. S. jurisdiction.................................... $

50.00
50.00

San Fernando Lodge No. 3431 Other U. S. jurisdiction ....................................$ 260.00
260.00
Total ....................................................... :............................ $ 6,881.67
A Striking Case
Your Board of Control has had for consideration a request by
the Board of Relief of Los Angeles for reimbursement for funds
expended for the relief of a brother of a Southern California Lodge.
This request commands notice in this report because it is unusual
a nd because it shows ignorance of Masonic duty on th e part of the
Master of the said Masonic Lodge.
The brother in question sought remission of his dues and relief
from his Lodge. It was not the first time that the brother had appealed to his Lodge. In justice (to the Lodge) it must be _said that
relief had bee n granted several times and that perhaps the Lodge
officers felt that the brother's requests were too frqeuent. The fact
remains, however, that neither of the appeals of the brother were
granted, although he was in good standing and in distress. Instead
he was notified on April 16, 1930 that if his 1930 dues "were not paid
by May 2, 1930, he would be suspended." The brother appealed to the
then Acting Grand Master, who immediately communicated with the
said Lodge, ordering that said Lodge take no action in suspending
the brother and that the Lodge comply with its obligation in granting
relief to the brother, his wife and daughter. In the meantime, the
Master and the \Varden interviewed the brother and his wife separately in Los Angeles-the Master refusing at first to reveal his
identity to the brother. Later the Master wrote a most heartless and
uncalled-for letter to the wife and a similar letter to the brother.
Although the officers found the brother and his family in actual need,
the;r first. act, instead of granting relief, was an attempt to get riq _of
the brother and to notify him that he would be suspended.
The brother had applied to the Los Angeles Board of Relief for
assistance. That Board communicated with the Lodge and was
directed to render no relief. But the Board of Relief, acting under
Section 90 of the Constitution and Decisions 343 and 346, and deeming
it necessary to provide food and shelter for the needy brother, granted
him relief in the amount of $110.00. This action was given approval
by the Acting Grand Master and the Board of Control. After a
conference with the Acting Grand Master the Lodge officers notified

257

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Gl1AN[) L ODG ~ O F CALIFORNIA

the Board of Relief to advance $100.00 to the brother and gave
assurance that the $110.00 already paid to him would be returned to
the Board.

San Francisco: E x penses w er e slightly lower owing to the fact
that the Manager took over the duti es of the Secreta ry of the Board
of Relief during his absence fo r several months a nd a substitute was
employed to take care of the Employment Service.
Manager's salary, per month ............................................................. ~ ..$250.00
Stenographer .......................................................................................... $75.00
Rent .........................,................................................................................. $15.00
Applications received ...................................................................... :~.. 3,347
Positions secured.................................................................................... 1,382
Temporary positions secured............................................................
460
Cost per unit for positions fille d........................................................ $2.91

256

But this did not close the matter. The brother is now and has
been since May 16, in need of assistance. The Los Angeles Board of
Relief has been granting this assistance and the Lodge has not
reimbursed the Board except as above noted. The Board of Relief
comes to the Board of Control with a request for reimbursement
for funds expended in the amount of $197.00.
Your Board of Control has gone into this case at length because
it believes it to be a matter of serious concern to this Grand Lodge.
In its continuous ·con~act w ith reimbursement controversies in this
jurisdiction, it has found similar cases but none so aggravated as
this. And this particular case has been submitted for the information
of Lodges as well as a warning to Lodge officers.
The Grand Lodge has clearly defined the duties and obligations
of a Lodge in the matter of relief to a distressed and needy worthy
brother (Sec. 90 and Decision 343-346) , .a nd our custom and procedure
in the matter of charity has become practically a California Masonic
Landmark. Until Grand Lodge legislates otherwise, we must carry on
as we have for four score years. To quote the Deputy Grand Master
"The time when a brother needs and applies for relief is not the time
to det.e rmine whether he is worthy of Masonic consideration. If the
brother is in good standing, the only duty of the Lodge is to determine
if the brother is in need and if it finds that he is to grant him relief."
It is the province of this Board of Control to pass upon requests
for reimbursement and to make recommendations thereon,
vVe, therefore, report that the request of the Los Angeles Board
of Relief for reimbursement in the sum of $197.00 for funds expended
for the relief of Brother
of
Lodge has been denied
and we recommend that said
Lodge be instructed by Grand
Lodge to reimburse the Los Angeles Board of Relief for funds already
expended in the relief of said brother and further that the present
relief be continued by said Lodge under the direction of and through
said Board of Relief with the instruction to said Board, so far as
possible, to keep said r elief expens es at the lowest possible figure.
Employment Service
The reports of our Employment Service reflect the general condition of unemployment that prevails throughout the Nation. In
nearly every case there have been more applicants and fewer placements than last year, which has increased the cost per unit.
Following is a brief summary of the several reports:

Oakland-Berkeley-Richmond: The Employment Service and
Board of R elief are now being operated a nd supported jointly by the
Lodges of the Oakland-Berkeley District. An additional two cents
per member per month is collected toward the expense of t he Employment Service.
This new arrangement is in li ne with the recommendation of the
Board of Co ntrol and is working out very satisfactorily. Two paid
employees serve both th e Board of Relief a nd Employment Service.
The total expense for salaries for the year being $3,475.00 : Rent
$35.00 per month; Applications received, 1978 ; P ositions secured, 764;
Cost per unit for positions filled, $5.84.
Los Angeles: Conditions continue about the same. An unusually
large list of applicants placed a heavier burden upon the office. Lodge
Employment Committees are cooperating.
Manager's salary, per month ................................................................$200.00
Assistant Manager's salary, per m o nth ............................................$175.00
Clerks, per m onth ..................................................................................$125.00
One-half of P. B.X . Operators, per month ................:.·.................... $50.00
San Pedro Branch, per month .........................................:.................. $25:00
Rent, per inonth ..............................................,.....................:.................$100.00
Applications received............................................................................ 6,302
Positions secur e·d .................................................................................... 1,658
Cost per u nit for positions fi lled........................................................ $6.27
Long Beach: T his repor t shows that 933 m en were placed in 66
different kinds of work. Of this number, 336 were classed a~ labor_ers,
194 carpenters, 38 gardeners, 30 auto mechanics, 26 salesmen, 24
painters, etc.
Two hu nd red seventeen w omen were placed in 22 classes of
work. T here were 62 sent ou t on work by the hour, 61 housework,
25 waitresses, 18 stenographers, etc.

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GIL\.NIJ r.ovcg Ol•' C ALIFORN IA

There were 36 trades and professions represented among the
applicants who could not be placed. These ranged from attorneys
and bankers to school teachers and wood carvers.
·

Recommendations
Your Board of Control is of the opinion that 110 reasonable effort
~hould be spared in emphasizing to employing Masons the need for
greater cooperation in assisting our less fortunate brethren to jobs.
We, therefore, recommend that the Grand Secretary be authorized to have printed a card bearing the name and location of all
Employment Service Bureaus within the jurisdiction. This card to
he sent out by the Secretary of each Lodge with every receip~ for
dues and designed to carry a double message.
It would explain briefly the importance of immediately signing
the r eceipt for dues to prevent improper use of that document in case
it was lost and, it would remind the brother to make use of the
Employment Service wherever possible.
'0l e also recommend that the Committee on Masonic Education
be requested to have preparer! a paper setting forth the functions and
opportunities of our Employment Service, said paper to be used as
one of the regular monthly subjects of that Committee and to be
r ead and discussed in the constituent Lodges.

Manager's salary, per month ................................................................$175.00
Rent, per month ...................................................................................... $15.00
No other salaries.
Applications received .............•......................................_. ....................... 1,369
Positions secured ................................................................................... . 1, 150
Cost per unit for positions fi11ed ........................................................ $1.87
San Diego: Manager's salary, per month ................................$175.00
No rent is paid.
N
A r
.
. d
..
472

P~~tion~ ps~c:~~~~~----~-~-~-~~~-~. .: : : : : : : : : : : : : :·: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

513
Cost per unit for positions fi11ed ........................................................ $4.23,
which amount is considerably lower than previous years.
Santa Monica: This report shows 600 applications received and
239 positions secured. There were no expenses connected with this
work, it being performed gratuitously by Brethren of the Bay District,
but principally by Brother Gilmore. An example worthy of remuneration.
Fresno: Employment here under the auspices of the Sciots.
Alameda : Five applications received. One position secured. No
expenses.
Appropriations
Your Board of Control has recommended to the Finance Committee of Grand Lodge that the fo11owing amounts be apportioned
to the several Employment Service Bureaus for the coming year:
San Francisco..................................................................................... . $2.400.00
Los Angeles ............................................ ,.......................................... . 2,400.00
Long Beach ........................................................................................ 1,800.00
San Diego ........................................................................................... . 1.400.00
Oakland - Berkeley........................................................................... . 1,000.00
Santa Monica ........................................................................................
300.00
Financial R eports
A comparative Financial Report for 1929 and 1930 showing the
receipts and expenditures of the respective Employment Service
Bureaus is attached hereto and made a part of this report.

259

DAVID J. REESE, Chairman,
JAS. R. ERSKINE,
OLIN L. BERRY,
ROBERT CALLENDER,
FRANK M. WrsE,
Committee.

The report was adopted, with the exception of those
portions which related to Policy and Finance and they were
referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes
and Finance.

NET RECEIPTS ABOVE
EXPENDITURES .................... $219.65
Cash Balance, Aug. 1, 1928..........
214 .02
Cash Blllance, Aug. 1, 1929..........................

---

$433.67
--Positions Secured ................................ 2109
Cost per Unit Positions Secured ......
$2.18
Cash Balance End of Period ..

l'J

..................

569 .61
647 .19

433.67

..................

95.94
.................
1216.80

582.24

1216 .80

1312.74

148 .57

1382
2.91

210 .69
518 .07
...................

307 .38

220 .89

24.63

9 .26

............

402 .36
864.93

307 .38

................

462 .57

395 .50
434 .55
.............

86.49

462 .57

4[•3.32

39 .05

63.68

764
2420
1658
961
328
4.70
6.27
5.84
5.42
ti.64
Santa Monica .................................. 239 positions 8ecured, no expense.
Alameda........... .......................
1 position secured, no Pxpense.
Fresno................... .......... .
. ....... Employment handled by SC'iots.

513
4 .23

1632
1.05

1150
1.87

--

..................
39.05

-- ----

SUMMARY
Total Receipts
Incl. Balance

San Francisco.......................................... $ 34,028.23
Los Angeles ............................................ 57,371.48
Long Beach ............................................ 6,692.43
Oakland and Berkeley.......................... 26,398.48
San Diego................................................ 14,424.13
2,171.24
Santa Monica ..........................................
4,236.37
Pasadena ................................................
206.88
Alameda ..................................................
3,926.10
San Jose ..................................................
2,949.50
Fresno ......................................................
5,964.01
Sacramento ............................................
931.89
Bakersfield ............................................
154.47
Richmond ................................................
Honolulu ................................................ 2!325.15

Total
Relief

Per
Cent

Gross
Overhead

Per
Cent

$ 17,540.90
33,788.52
2,489.89
21,408.65
10,0&5.75
1,772.33
2,071.45
139.38
2,105.20
773.48
2.145.36
441.27
71.00
688.09

67.6
67.3
42.5
80.7
80
93.1
69.2
99.3
73
29.7

$ 8,097.72.
16,110.61
3,365.35
5,098.19
2,519.18
141.91
912.40
.90
770.86
1,828.65
606.97
316.06
25.00
92.85

32.4
32.7
57.5
19.3
20
6.9
30.8
.7
27
70.3
23
42
27
12

77
58
73
88

-Total ................................................$160,780.36

$102,713.09

$39,886.65

Salaries

$ 5,400.00
11,175.00
2,875.00
3,845.75
2,400.00

-------900.00

-------600.00
1,800.00
540.00
300.00

--------------$29,835.75

Balance
On Hand

$ 9,285.71
7,210.27
837.19
4,989.83
819.20
257.00
1,262.52
66.60
1,050.50
347.37
3,211.68
174.56
58.47
1,544.21

Q
:0 .

zlj>

t'
0
lj

Q
l'J
0
"i
(')

>
t'
~

0
!:it

z

>

--$31,115.11

""'

......
°'

384.40
31.SO
--·····26S.60

280.00
S0.00

Totals ......................$8,243. lS

$16,241.77

Sacramento ....................
Bakersfield ....................
Richmond ......................
Honolulu ........................

1,057.SO
406.10
49.00
52.00

··--·-··

410.09

20.00
·····--·

171.3S

·-------

······--

296.2S

29.24

7.00

409.27
71.00
112.29

2S.OO
-------173.0S

402.7S

--$S7,200.18

$S9,951.78

$17,611.18

$40,S28.98

$1,871.S3

$3,031.81

MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF
Statistical Information
For the Year Ending July 31, 1930
Compoecd of Members from each
Blue Lodge. ............................

San Francisco
54

Managed by.. ,.............. ·············· ··········
Number Meetings per Month.... .........
Per Capita Asaesement during year

Secretary

2
25c

Los Angsles

························

Long Beach
MOBter and Wardens
each Blue Lod~e

Oakland- Berkeley
Oakland and
Berkeley

San Diego
Each Blue Lodge

Secretary
1
8c to 12)10

Secretary
1
4c per Member
per month
Emp. and Relief 2

Boord

Secretary
1
6Cr

Number paid Employees..
2
7
··-··--··
Sea-etary's Salary ....... ............ ........... Per year, $3,600
P•r month, '250
a
Assistant Seerctary's Salary...............
............
200
Typiat or Clerk's Salary... .............
125
900
Field Man's Salary.......
........
175
················
Switch Board Operator's Salary ...
.................
50
Fidelity Bond, Nau:e Carrier... .......... Pac. Indemnity Co.
Pac. Indemnity Co.
Amount Treasurer's Bond ..............
f2,000
$2,000
Amount Secretary's Bond . ..................
2,000
2,000
Amount, Fidelity Insurance and
Carrier.........
................ ........
...............
·······
CompellBlltion Inaurance and Carrier .. $5,000 Gt>n. Accident, Aetna Life !.M. Co.
Fire & Life Corp.,
Perth, Scotland
I- Buick
Number Autos. llBCd- Name...
.. .. .I- Month!)· All., '50
Auto Insurance and Carrier...... .......... Secretary, mm car
Auto Club, So. Calif.

.. ...

. .

No. Funerals Conducted by Board ...
..... ......
No. Funeral. Conduotro by Lodges...
79
llndcrtakera' Charge.......
...............
···········
Coot of Opening and Closing Grave.....Av~. cost of burial•,
lnr. au chg,., $ll0
C'oa~ of Funeral &-nice.

....... ... .....

Tutal Coat of Fun, ra•....... .......... .. ....

................
..... .......

252
13
~75

Inc. grave,~- S20
to $25 Interment,
cremation, SllG-1125

············
..................

1
Per month, S225

...................
...................
...................
········ .......
Pac. Indemnity Co.
$500
500

............
........ ·······
l ~heuolet

Home Accident
Ins. Co.
38
Their members only

.. ..

·············
175
50

..... . .......
··············

Globe Indemnity

1

Per year, 75<:
I
Per month, $200

...............
. · ····-··········
.....
.................

Santa M~mica
3 M embers each
Bluo Lodge

Pasadena
5 Local Lodges

Pres. and Sec.
1
Per year, 25c

Pres. and Sec.
01Jy as n<'Ccssary
Per year, 70c

....................
.... ... ·····.... ..
. ················
........

I

......

Per month, $75

.... ...............
····················
···················
···········

Pac. Indemnity Co.

$2,lloo

Grand Lodge
$1,000
1,000

~1 ,000

$500

················

........ .......

.......
....... ...........

Par . [ndemnity Co.

.....

Independence Indemnity Co.
1-PontiJlc Coupe
Concordia Fire
In•. Co.
68

••••• T••••• ••

.........

Pac.Indemnity Co

.............. .....

....................

>-z

ti
t'
0
ti
Q

t:i:J

0

'zj
(')

>-t'
.....
'zj

0
::0
············
....... ..........

.............

.........
16

!- Buick
Glen's Falls Co.

..............

~1()1)

···············

~5

$5

..................

No set price

....................

'5

........ ........

$135

Varies

~197 .50

'105

$135
If iot is required

z

:;

26

6
t6
No !!et. price
$12.50

··················

Q
~

,60
Cost ofgrave$62.50,
opening and cloa·
ing, $40.
~

"'

r»

~

Ind. Ins. Co. of N. A.

Compensation Ina. and Carrier....... .
Number Autos Used-Name.... .
Auto Insurance and Carrier.......... ..
Number Funerals Conducted by Board .. .
Number Funerals Conducted by Lodges..... .
Undertaker!!' Charge...
............... .

Secreta~. , own car

Essex- I

11
Blue Lodge Offici•les
$100

20
$100

15
Undertakors' f.., ouly, HOO
If Ch..,.ity, U 00

12
4r;
157

Hupmobill'-1
Globe Indemnity
12
Caoket

with com-

plet.e service, $100

Coot uf Opening and Closing Grave......
Cost of Funeral Service
Total Cost of Fun re "I

Average, $135

ANNUAL REPORT
MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF
For Twelve M onths Ending July 31, 1930
San Francisco
1929
1930

Los Angeles
1929
1930

Balance on Hand Last &port..
llefund of Retie! Expenditures....... ·:::::::::

1482. 61

8405 .46

1539 .34

Grand Lodge of Cahfornia .................

25-31.36
5497 .52
9617 . 76
540 . 11

2846 . 05
6153 . 31
8759 . 23
388 .45

4708 .35
28 ,450 . 97

Other California Lodges...........................
Otbrr United Sta•rs Lodges .....
Foreign Lodges...

Funerals..... .....
lnd'viduals...

..............
...... ...........
..................
..............

- --

---

Total Refunds ......................
18,186.75 18,147.04
Other lleceipte.
36.26
From Supporting Lodges and Bodies........ · 5603.os
5529.25
Intel-est..
......................... ...................
884 . 96
835 . 22
Other Items....
................
............. ··················
1025.00
Total Receipts. ........... ..................
Total Receipts, including Balance of I.nst Report. ...........
FOR RELIEF
California Jurisdict !on ..... .. ..............
Other United StatP.8 Jurisdictions.
Forei~n Jurisdictions............................
R epayment to Granr! Lodge. CaH....
Funrral9........
Individuals............................................
Contributed to Emp?oyme-nt Bureau
Audit...........
Other I tems ........
............

--- --64H.Ol

742:U3

25,157. 37 34,028 . 23
5839 . 15
10 ,716.91
1607.88

..............

0742 . 14
9453 .08
1086. 33
623 .35

.........

. ...............

.':.·:.-.-::.·:..".".':.'::
178.56
203.50

600 .00
3~ . 00

. ...........•..•.

--- - --

Total Relief Expenditures ......... 18 ,546 . 00 17 ,540 . 00

Long Beach
1929
1930

Berkeley-Oakland
1929
1930

San Diego
1929
1930

Santa Monica
1929
1930

6515 . 86

. 70

796 . 23

1447.28

4626 .50

916 .14

1032 .50

42 .74

153 . 29

2942.15
3660.54
23
,844. 79
··-········ ·····
635 . 33
131. 50
107 .00
30 .00
- -- -33 ,397 .82 31,112.81

13. 50
92 .00
1379 . 23
60 .00
562 .00

40 .50
77. 75
1458.24
100.00
424 .69

835.00
1972 .11
54'.-1.47
357 . 10
1461.62
794 . 69

664 . 5.'\
2745.08
U316 .09
406 .50
1352 .82
837 . 12

250 .67
2685.29
7235.50
101. 94

I05 . 80
1699 .50
9054 . 95
25 .00

64 .00
195.00
528. 37
461. 00

15 .00
1465 .24

15 .322 .26

10,273 .40

10 ,885 .25

1248. 37
110.00
473 .40

1480.21
197.21
340 . 50

16 ,460. 75
153. 17
2602 . 70

i7)i9ii.95

136 . 30
1906.56

--- ---

- --

2106. 73

3342076
20 . 75
324 .92

--2101.18

3766 . 93
28 .09
................

--- - --

- --

10,911.99

4998.63

·2097.50 . 2370.34

--- ---

--- ---

2717:58

240 .92
1.00

19,2 16.62 19,742.81
3~88.43
3795.02
2%8.50
Transfer of Funds of Employment Service-

54 ,153 . 78 5i ,371.48
5795 . 86
EXPENDITURES
112 .00
29 ,576 . 53
3986 . 54
................. 24 ,372.90
1244.59
708 .08
50.00
iiiiii
754 .00
3764 .54
3858 .45
672 . 50
166 . 70
192 .46
················

00

............
..................

.......

......

.. .....
··················

--- ---

35 ,391.68 33 ,788 .52

....,.....
...............

--138 .20
.15

5 133 .98
1312 . 74

---

6692 .43

15,318. 77 26,398 .48

rn6 .50
1406 . 64
50.00
1. 75
475 .00

3388 .48
3447 . 81
m 8 .84 10 ,61)9 .50
440 .30
670. 15

23.96
98 .96

24 . 94.
111.10

2220.42

2506 . 38

13 ,409 .96 14 ,424 . 13

·············· ................
................ ................

- --

--1831. 77 2017 .95
1874 .51

2171.24

- - -

Total Expense.................... .........
6962 . 25
Revising Rooter Grand Lodge............ .............•....
Offiee F.quipment Purchased .............. ··················
Total Expenditures ......................
Balance on Hand this Report............
Percentage Expended for Relief ........

5400 .00
360.00
600.00
406.44
145.92
42 . 60
142. 77

· 1100.00

--8197 . 73

203 .90

- -- - - -

25 ,508 .25 25 ,942.53
8455 .46
9285 . 71
72.7%
67 . 6%

12 ,078. 35 11,725 .00
1200.00
1200.0ll
639 .87
667 .79
888 .42
924. 74
1557 .18
967. 50
200 .00
234 .13
139.32
879 .33
485. 26
..........
.................

365 .00
25.00

........ .. ......

--- --2079 . 09

2489 .89

3250 .00
180 .00

2875 .00
180.00

48.43
56 .05

56 .86
35 . 60

--- --17 ,677 .28

16,110. 61

175 .00
....... 25.29
87 .08
- -- - - -

53 ,094 .25 50,161.21
6515 .86
7210.27
66 . 73
67 .3%

....... ........

' 21i:ii9

191.19 ..................

................. ..................

- - -

3725 . 67

- -3365 . 35

....................................
.................. ..................

--- - -5804 . 76
796 . 23
35 .8%

::d

>
z
l:j

t'
0

l:j
Cl

l'J

1448"072

"\530.50

99 . 76 .............
.. ......... ....... 52

................
.................

so

5098.19

--- --13,156. 10 21,408 .65

2439 .43
7190. 97
121. 94

1754 .83
8210.64
25.00

.........

................. .................
............... .................
..................

· 1s:oo
...............
80 .28
..........
- -- --9752 . 34 10,085 . 75

18.5 .00
30 .00
804 .41 1440 . 18
10.00
5.00
481.05
. .............
297.15
. . ........... ................
.............................
10.00 ................
. .............• ...............

-1490--- .46
1772 . 33
Misc.

FOR EXPENSE
Salaries.....
5100 .00
!lent............... .........................................
360.00
Automob"lo Allowance and Exoense..
Telephone and Telegraph ......... : ........
116. 73
Prin~ing, Stationery and Po3tage...
69 . 15
Traveling Expense...................... .....
··················
Field Representative Expense....
Other Items. .......................................
116.37
Less Contributed by Emp. B,iresu...
1200.00

Cl

5855 .24
837 . 19
42 .5%

3041.50
360.00

. iiiiii
143 . ~7

3845 . 75
420 .00
282 .44
172 .85
143 .42

602 .81
..................
...............
............

................

4371.57

5063 . 19

. 1980"72
.. .........
--- --..............
..................

2400 .00

2400 .00

31. 24
20 .00

25 .37
36 . 31
22 .50

...............

294.80 ···· 35 .·oo
---- - - .................. ..............
2746 .04

2519.18

74 .58
44 . 15

112:03
230.76 ..
--- 461.52

37.20

0

'>J

(j

>
t'
iii
0

::d

z
....

>

46 .46
58 . 25

141. 91

35 .00

--- - - -

17,527 . 67 26,506 .84
4626 . 50
4989.83
80.7%
75%

12 ,498 . 38 12 ,604 .93
1032 .52
819 .20
78%
80%

1951.98 1914 .24
257 .00
153 .29
93.1%
75 .3%

""a>

Ql

266

PROCEEDINGS
~g8:,;J

~~~~

"'"" "'

O~~

THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

''"'""
__
"'"'"'..,.
c::~~

i ...

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

-o

To the M .".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
In presenting the report of the Masonic Temple Association of
California to Grand Lodge we beg to state that there have been extensive improvements made in various parts of the building. The
Lodge room on the fourth floor has been entirely rebuilt. The ventilating system is being replaced and will be completed very shortly
and the northern wall of the building has bP,en faced with composition plast er much in keeping with the stone work on the front of
the building.
Upon the death of Brother Edward Peabody, who was secretary and general manager of the Temple, Brother Frank C. Ruppel
voluntarily offered his services without s·a lary or remuneration and
since that time the affairs of the Temple have been conducted very
much to its benefit. The directors have declared three dividends,
which, whi le small in themselves, show increase of pr_ofits which,
with the trend of business ou t Market street, will slowly continue.
We feel that we should place the credit of the management
where it belongs, and in connection therewith we name the splendid
work done by. Brother Ruppel.

I; ;
~~~

:g

I§ ;

j~

'"'

I~

;

I~ ~
~R

~8

<Oc:;n

~

55 :8:;i;g
....;

~ ar,) ,....; ar,)

"'

°'

RECEIPTS

1; ;

~~ .]~g

·":>
o

g

1:

1~

1~

I I~
1;

88~

~~~

°' "'

267

8

1g

1=

October 1, 1929, balance on hand (cash and securities) .... $ 23,257.27
From rentals ....................................................$ 47,819.27
From interest bank balances......................
145.56
From interest on bonds................................
1,162.50
Refund on taxes..............................................
160.45
Premium on sale of bonds............................
25.00
49,312.78

$ 72,570.05
DI SBURSEMEN TS

Taxes ..........................................................................$
Current expense ....................:.................................
Repairs and improvements ............................ :........ .
Superintendent and salaries ................................... .
Insurance ................................................................. .
Dividends ..................................................................
Accrued interest on bonds bought.. ....................
Notes payable .......................................................... .
Balance on hand-September 30th, 1930
(Cash and securities) ........................... ,..........

8,333.10
5,759.57
8,297.60
9,684.90
292.38
4,598.57
168.61
7,682.50

44,817.23

$ 27,752.82

MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA.
By W . P. FILMER, Vice President.

Report adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

268

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has had under consideration the
By-Laws of Liberal Arts Lodge and Willow Glenn Lodge, both
under dispensation, and finds them to be in proper form, except as
to Section 2, Article V, and. Section 2, Article VI, which do not
conform to the Uniform Code of By-Laws of Lodges, made obligatory in October, 1898, and as amended to October, 1918, in that they
fail to require the Secretary and the Treasurer to furnish a good and
sufficient bond within fifteen days after installation. The committee
recommends the approval of these . By-Laws subject to correction
thereof, as herein indicated; such amendments to be properly certified and transmitted to the Grand Secretary.
Your committee has also had under consideration various amendments to By-Laws of Lodges and they are found to be in proper
form, and we therefore recommend their approval.
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,

Juuus GABRIEL,
VICTOR R. MCLUCAS,

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
This committee, in reports of previous years, has presented the
view that a Masonic Lodge is a strong asset in any new community,
in promoting civic development and moral gain. It is comparable to
those other important moral agencies, the public school and the church,
all being most helpful and so greatly needed, as soon as new towns
and settlements have become well established. However, these observations yield to circumstances such as the present ones of industrial and financial depression.
We want no failures on our r ecord as an Instituticin, and seeking, as we do, quality rather than quantity, it is better that ocasional
petitions for dispensations be denied, as our Grand Master's address
shows he has done this past year, than to grant such petitions with
a possible risk of later circumstances disclosing that the action was
too optimistic. When in any given city or community, there are
enough Lodges, reasonably accessible, to supply the Masonic needs
of the brethren residing therein, no good is gained by giving the
right of life to still more new Lodges.
No business that it can transact, comes to this Charters Committee until after the Grand Master, in his wise discretion and only in

269

cases of manifest propriety and necessity, has granted dispensations
in response to petitions. Thereafter, each Lodge must work a time
under dispensation and each must exhibit satisfactory evidence of its
Masonic capability before this Charters Committee can recommend
. that a charter be issued in lieu of the dispensation under which the
newly organized Lodge has been conducting its affairs.
The Committee makes favorable recommendation in all three of
the cases before it. One of the new Lodges is in a city recently incorporated as such under State laws; the second may best be described
as being in a city within a city; the third is in unincorporated territory
but has been an old settlement for many years.
Willow Glen is a community of homes, adjacent to San Jose in
Santa Clara county and has about 7,000 population. It has recently
been incorporated as a city, but has not been given an independent
post office by the Federal government, the inhabitants receiving mail
through the San Jose post office. T he Lodge is to be called "Willow
Glen."
Westwood (the University city within the city of Los Angeles
that had its origin with the establishment of the "University of California at Los Angeles") is the location of the new Masonic Lodge
that will be called " Liberal Arts" Lodge. It is not intended solely
for men who arc students past majority in that university, but will
serve the Masonic needs of a section of the larger city, estimated a t
12,000 people.
Altadena comprises a closely-built residence community of highest
worth, located adjacent to Pasadena in Los Angeles county, with a
population of about 16,000. It is not a city, being purposely unincorporated. The Lodge is to be called "Altadena."
T hi• Committee on Charters is pleased to report that in the
hearings before it, excellent evidence was given of the ample cooperation and generosity of both brethren and Lodges, toward the three
newly organized Lodges whose representatives were before us. Although created in communities of the large populations already given,
nevertheless the brethren had reverted to the ways of more simple
days, for instead of contributions of money only, had given extensive
personal service to promote the ends desired. Gifts were told of
Lodge furniture, of regalia and particularly of personal effort and
labor in th e new halls or temples a bout to be occupied. In one case
the pedestals for the Wardens were made and given by a brother
who was a cabinet maker ; the Tiler's register beautifully prepared
and bound by one skilled in that work. In another, one I.,odge officer
·was said to be the financial "genius" with an enthusiastic ability to
interest others in giving financial support to the new enterprise
(subsequent, of course, to approval of plans by our special Grand
Lodge Committee on "Financing Building Projects" ) ; the officer
next above him was the able architect of the new Lodge home; and

270

PROCEEDI NGS OF 'l'HE

the Master, a lawyer, gave all the time necessary to take any legal,
steps required. Such team-work, accompanied by zeal and generosity1
i~ indeed Masonry conducted in the true Masonic spirit.
Recommending the issuance of charters to three new Lodges·
only, reveals the least number of dispensations and petitions for
charters on which this committee has worked for many years past.
The total of new Lodges for nine· years, including this year, is 164
or a yearly average of 18 new Lodges. From what has been stated
and from the unusually high character and personnel of the representatives of the new Lodges, and from the exc~llent manner in
which the books of records were kept, we believe that all of the three
will be Lodges of high quality, which is always ou r desire.
In each case, these new Lodges are clear of all debts; have been
conducted in due Masonic manner; are in communities sufficient
both in population and resources to justify the chartering of these
Lodges and they in all respects substantially comply with the requirements of our Constitution.
Your Committee recommends that charters be issued to these
new Lodges in the order of their petitions for charters, with the
following names and numbers:
Willow Glen Lodge No. 676 at \Villow Glen, Santa Clara county;
Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677 at Los Angeles;
Altadena Lodge No. 678 at Altadena, Los Angeles county.
HENRY ErssLER,
LEO BRUCK,

RALPH A. CHASE, Chairnrn.n.

The report was adopted and charters ordered to be issued
therewith.

111 accordance

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
.To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost
of transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in
.the jurisdiction to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and
return, and of reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due
to the officers or representatives in attendance from each Lodge,
as well as Grand officers, Past Grand Masters, chairmen and members of standing committees and inspectors, for their necessary ex-

\

271

•_;1t.-\NlJ LOUUI•: OF CAUFOHNIA

\>l't1ditun:s to and from Grand Lodge, report that they have carefully
(tischarged the duty and submit the following statement:
Grand Lodge officers .. -----·····-··---------·--·--·-·----489.76
Past Grand Masters----------------------------·-------·-·--365.20
Committees -----------· ------------------------ -----·------------··
428.76
Inspectors ---------------·----------------------------------···----- 2, 182.86
(;rand Lodge members. ________________________________ ,,. 15,960.23
Total ... ·· ·--· ------·--··-------··---------------·------------·-$19 ,426.81
]oHN H. McGEH~:E,
Jos. BLOCK,

F. E. SNillECOH,
\V _ W. McKEE,

Committee.

Report adopted .

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was submitted the following trial records, to-wit:
No. 578, from Oak Grove Lodge No. 215;
No. 615, from Northern Light Lodge No. 190;
No. 630, from George Washington Lodge No. 525;
No. 639, from Ashlar Lodge No. 306;
No. 641, from Exeter Lodge No. 424;
No. 642, from Fairmount Lodge No. 435;
No. 643, from Mount Davidson Lodge No. 481;
No. 644, from Euclid Lodge No. 519;
No. 646, from Visalia Lodge No. 128;
No. 650, from Silver Gate Lodge No. 296;
No. 654, from West Lake Lodge No. 392;
No. 655, from Euclid Lodge No. 519;
No. 656, from Composite Lodge No. 639;
No. 658, from Corinthian Lodge No. 9;
No. 659, from Searchlight Lodge No. 567;
No. 660, from Foothill Lodge No. 564;
No. 662, from Sanger Lodge No. 316;
No. 663, from Santa Ana Lodge No. 241;
No. 664, from East Gate Lodge No. 290;
No. 665, from Southland Lodge No. 618;
No. 666, from Southern California Lodge No. 278;
No. 667, from Salinas Lodge No. 204;
No. 668, from Fruitvale Lodge No. 336;
No. 670, from Sunset Lodge No. 352;

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

Respectfully reports that after careful examination it finds thaf
in each case so referred to the committee, there has been at least / a
.substantial compliance with the Constitution and Regulations; that ~n
those cases where the same were not strictly complied with, the errors
in no way prejudiced either the accused or accuser: In none of these
cases was an appeal taken, many of them being under section 192
of the Constitution adopted two years ago, and in each instance the
substantial rights of the parties were safeguarded. It is noteworthy
that in only one instance did the accused, whose case fell under section 192 of the Constitution, providing for automatic expulsion,
where the accused had been convicted of a felony in the courts of
the land, unless the accused, after sixty days' notice, demands a
Masonic trial, demand such trial. The adoption of section 192 has
resulted in relieving the Lodges of a vast amount of trouble and
expense in obviating the necessity of trials, where the final result
was obvious.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption :
Resolt•cd, that the action of the trial commissioners in each of
the cases herein above referred to, be, and the same is hereby approved, sustained and affirmed.

Adopted.
Disapproval of Certain Practices-Your committee desires to
report that while in its omnibus report it sustained the action of the
Trial Commission in case No. 656 from Composite Lodge No. 639,
your committee feels it would be remiss in its duty if we did not
make special reference to the record in this case. It contains about
500 pages of vituperation, wrangling and abuse, and only about 150
pages of actual testimony. Such practice entails useless expense on
the __trial Lodges, creates unnecessary ill feeling and serves no good
purpose. While each side in a Masonic. trial should be given every
~pportunity to ful.l y present its case, this should be done in a gentlemanly and dignified manner. A Masonic trial is no place to vent
personal spite.
We wish here and now to voice our disapproval of such practice
and to caution Masters against permitting the same. We also desire
to call attention to the fact that argument of counsel on objecfions
or in summing up the case are no part of the record, and should not
be taken down by the reporter at the expense of the Lodge. If
counsel desire their arguments to come before this committee, they
may · do so by preparing and filing briefs.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

Resolved, that the practice of indulging in abuse and personal
animosities at Masonic trials be and the same is hereby disapproved
and condemned.

Adopted.
Your committee to which was referred the petition of A. H. A.,
a former member of Woodstock Lodge No. 491, suspended by the
Grand Lodge on appeal, has presented to it considerable evidence
showing a complete reformation on the part of the accused. The
committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves its
adoption:
·
Resoh•ed, that the petition of A. H. A., a member of Woodstock
Lodge No. 491, for restoration at large to all the rights and privileges
of Masonry be, and the same is, hereby granted and petitioner is
hereby restored to such rights and privileges as a Mason at large.

Adopted.
Your committee to which was referred trial record No. 657,
from Composite Lodge No. 639, offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of the trial commission in finding the
accused guilty of unmasonic conduct be and the same is hereby reversed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record No. 661, from Utopia Lodge No. 537, offers the following resolution and moves its adoption:
·
Resolved, that the action of the trial commission in case No. 661,
in finding the accused guilty of the charge of unmasonic conduct be
sustained, but that the penalty be and the same is hereby fixed at
suspension.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the
petition for restoration of S. B. G., formerly a member of and expelled by Fillmore Lodge No. 379, in 1921, reports as follows:
Similar petitions were denied by Grand Lodge in 1922, 1925,
1926 and 1927. The language of the present petition is intemperate.
The petition has but one letter in its support, and that letter recommends further investigation. No showing has been made that the

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

character or mental attitude of the petitioner has changed since Grand
Lodge last passed upon the matter in 1927.
We therefore offer the following resolution, and move its adoption :
Resolved, that the petition of S. B. G. for r estoration to membership be and the same is hereby denied.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial
record No. 638. from El Dorado Lodge No. 26, offers the following
resolution and moves its adoption:
Resoh•ed, that the finding and action of the trial commission be
and the same is hereby approved, sustained and affirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to ~hich was referred trial
record No. 65 1, from E l Dorado Lodge No. 26, reports that the
accused has appealed on the ground that the only evidence offered
in support of the charge consisted of improperly certified copies of
two records of conviction of the accused, on charges of allowing a
percentage game to be played with cards for money, and allowing a
minor to play in said game, which copies had not been certified as
correct by the judge of the Recorder's Court in which he had been
convicted. The case must therefore be reversed and sent back for
a new trial, and we so recommend.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition for restoration by H. E. D., formerly a member of South Gate
Lodge No. 320, and expelled by Grand Lodge in 1926, finds that in
support of the petition for restoration an excellent showing has been
made that since petitioner's expulsion he has led an exemp!ary life
and has endeavored in every way to make atonement for his past
unfortunate conduct. At a stated meeting of South Gate Lodge No.
320, held August 6, 1930, a reso lution was unanimously adopted
recommending favorable consideration of this applicant's petition. We
therefore offer the following r esolution and move its a doption:
Rcsol·ved, that the petition of H. E. D., formerly a member of
South Gate Lodge, for restoration to the rights and privileges of
Masonry, be granted.

Adopted.

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

275

Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial
record No. 647, from Naval L odge o. 87, feel after a full, fair and
careful analysis of the charges and of all the testimony produced at
th e hearing, that the commissioners were in error in finding the
accused guilty. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and
m ove its adoption :
Resolved, that the judgment of the trial commission, finding the
accused guilty, be and the same is hereby reversed.

The report of the committee was not sustained and the
judgment of the trial commission was sustained by Grand
Lodge.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which has been referred a
petition for restoration by I. A. M., expelled in 1927 by Ionic Lodge
No. 520 (trial record No. 573), offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
Resoli ed, that the petition for restoration for I. A . M., formerly
a member of Ionic Lodge No. 520, to the rights and privileges of
Masonry', be and is hereby granted.
1

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which has been referred trial
record No. 649, from Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, begs to report as
follows:
This proceeding arises under section 192 of the Constitution,
which specifically r eq uires notice to be sent to accused at his last
known place of address. In this instance the accused was known
to he in San Quentin, but the Secretary inadvertently ignored this
fact, which was known to him , and sent notices to a Los Angeles
address. Whether c Mason be confined to San Quentin or elsewhere
he is entitled to notice of proceedings pending against him, where it is
possible to notify him. Section 192 specifically gives to the accused
the right of electing whether he will stand Masonic trial. It might well
be that if allowed to defend himself, he could adduce exten uating facts
which would give an entirely different complexion to this case. In any
event it is one o f the fundamental principles of our I ns titution that
no m ember shall be deprived of his rights without full notice and op1iortunity to defend himself.
Your Committee, therefore, offers the follow ing resolution and
nwves its adoption:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

276

Resolved, that the judgment of Los Angdes Lodge No. 42 be
and the same is hereby reversed, with instructions to strictly comply
with the provisions of Section 192.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which has been referred trial
record No. 653, begs to rep?rt as follows:
This proceeding arises under Section 192 and corresponds in all
respects to trial record No. 649. For the reasons therein set forth
the Committee recommends a reversal.
Ybur Committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption :
Resolved, that th'e judgment of Sequoia Lodge No. 349 be and
the same is hereby reversed, with instructions to strictly comply with
the provisions of Section 192.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial
record No. 652, from Southern California Lodge No. 278, containing
the proceedings of the trial in said Lodge of three members of Palos
Verdes Lodge No. 389, offer the following resolution and' move its
adoption:
Resolved, that the judgment of the trial commission in trial record
No. 652, finding each of the accused guilty be and the same is hereby
sustained and affirmed, but that the penalty in each case be modified
by fixing the same for all three accu~ed at expulsion.

The report was adopted and L. W. V., F. H. G.,· and
F. A. ]., .the accused named in the above trial record, are
expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition
for restoration of 0. 0. R., heretofore suspended for unmasonic
conduct by Delano Lodge No. 309, and subsequently expelled by
Grand Lodge, begs to report that under date of March 6, 1930, Delano
Lodge No. 309, by almost unanimous vote, approved the petition for
restoration. It appears from the record that petitioner served with the
armed forces during the World War; that since then he has been
active in religious and church work and has served as Chaplain of the
disabled veterans of the World War; that he does not drink, smoke
or gamble, and has lived a quiet, orderly and entirely upright life
since his difficulties in 1915. We, therefore, recommend that the

GitAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

277

petition for restoration of 0. 0. R. be, and the same be granted and
that he· be restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 640, from El Dorado Lodge No. 26, begs to report t hat the only
evidence produced at the trial, as'i de from identification testimony,
was that by a member of the trial Lodge who read into the record a
report from the District Attorney o f Los Angeles county, which recited in effe ct the plea of guilty of the accused and the r endition of a
suspended sentence by the court. It is with the utmost reluctance
that your committee finds itself compelled to advise that this evidence
was not sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty. The report referred
to was not a properly authenticated court record and was purely
hearsay in· charac't er. This being the only evidence introduced, it
follows that the finding of the trial commission is wholly dependent
upon hearsay testimony for its sup port. Section 202 of our Constitution definitely and positively provides that hearsay evidence is not
admissible. We therefore offer the following resolution and move its
adoption :
Resol7•ed, that the judgment of the trial commission in this case
be and the same is hereby reversed and the matter remanded for a
new trial; that proper opportunity be given to amend the specifications
to charge the commission of an offense, and that the accuser be and
he hereby is, advised to secure and present to the trial commission a
properly authenticated copy of the court record.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was r eferred tria l
record No. 645, from Live Oak Lodge. N o. 61, takes t he view that
the penalty of expulsion, voted by the triai commission, is too severe
and should he modified. We, therefore, offer the following resolution
and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the finding of guilty by the trial commission, in
record No. 645, be and the same is hereby sustained and affirmed,
but that the penalty of expulsion be m odified by fixing the same as
suspension.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was r eferred trial record
No. 648. from Crockett Lodge N o. 139, begs leave to report that two
mem bers of this committee did not participate in the consideration of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LOl>GliJ OF CALIFORNIA

this case, for the reason that they deemed themselves disqualified
because of personal knowledge of matters involved in the trial.
In this case, a Fellow Craft of Occidental Lodge No. 22, was
charged with falsely stating in his petition for the degrees that he
had never presented a petition to any Masonic Lodge and that he had
never been rejected by any Lodge, when in truth and in fact he had
previously petitioned and been n:jected by Reading Lodge No. 254.
The trial commission found the accused not g uilty.
After careful consideration of all the circums tances connected
with th e case, we recommend that the finding of the trial commission
of not guilty be and the same is hereby modified to a finding of guilty,
and the pena lty fixed as suspension.
WALTER F. HAAS,

1Jn ~ranh iljobgr

278

WILLIAM P ENN H UMPHREYS,
HARRY

K. WoLH, .
A. SITTON,

WILLIAM

FRANK B. B ELCHER,

Committee.

Adopted.

At 12 :20 o'clock, Grand Lodge was called off until 2
o'clock this afternoon.

279

Afternoon Session
Thur sday, October 16, 1930.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o 'clock, the Grand Master presiding.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
Grand Secretary
1. Your Committee on P olicy and General Purposes approves
the recommendation of the Grand Master that our beloved and
efficient Gra nd Secretary, John \ Vhicher, be authorized and requested
to attend the conference of Grand Secretaries, to be held in Washington, D. C. in 1931. His prese nce there w ill undoubtedly ·redound to
the benefit of and refl ect credit upon this Grand L odge. Out of the
abundance of his wisdom and the p lentitude of his ex perience he will
contribute much to the work of the conference. We recommend that
the subject matter be r eferred to the Finance Committee for an appropriate appropriation.

Adopted.
Cabinets for Lodges
2. Your Committee does not concur in the recommendation of
the Grand ·Master that Grand Lodge install fi'reproof cabinets in
certain Lodges to protect old r ecords and minute books. We agree
with him that many of the Loclge records are precious and deserving
of protection against the hazard of fire, but are persuaded that a due
regard for their preservation by the officers of th e L odges will lead
them to deposit o ld and valuable records in a safe place or to lodge
th em with the Gr and Secretary for preservation. The committee on
History and the Gra nd Secretary are engaged in collecting and
properly caring for r ecords and other objects of historical and Masonic
interest and are prepared to receive a nd adequately protect all such
treasures confined to their care.
We are of the opinion that Grand Lodge should not undertake
to provide furniture and equipment for Loclge uses except in cases of
unusual emergency.

Adopted.

280

PROCEEDINGS OF •rHE

GRAND LOUGE OF CALIFOHNIA

Masonic Library of Southern California
3. Your Committee has considered the report and recommendation of the Grand Master regardlng the Masonic Library of Southern
California, Inc., and the propriety of permitting two or more Lodges
to join in a library association and to support the same from the funds
of the Lodge.
It appears from the Grand Master's report that the Masonic
Library of Southern California, In~., is a corporation and is · not
owned by or controlled by subordinate Lodges of this Grand Lodge.
If the Lodges owned this library they would have an unquestioned
right to support and maintain it, but they are not authorized to pay
Lodge funds for the use and benefit of a private corporation, no matter
how laudable its business. We do not favor the abrogation of a law
which we believe to be salutary and proper.

so filed. He proposes amendments to Section 207 of the Constitution
to effectuate the recommended changes in our trial procedure.
Your committee is of the opinion that the existing law is sufficient and that the suggested changes are unnecessary. The Lodge is
the proper forum for the trial of cases of unmasonic conduct and this
Grand Lodge is the appellate auth'ority to which appeals, in proper
cases, may be brought. Until the appellate jurisdiction of Grand
Lodge is invoked it has no place in the trial and should not be charged
with responsibility for the pleadings or otherwise in the case. The
Grand Master has the inherent power to make such investigation of
the acts of a Lodge as to him seems proper. As a matter of policy
the recommettdation should not be adopted.

Adopted.
Qualification of Wardens
4. Y oui: Committee on Policy and General Purposes is of the
opinion that the needs of the craft are satisfied when the Master is
thoroughly proficient in those portions of the Constitution and Regulations of the Grand Lodge which relate to the government of a Lodge
and that there is no compelling reason to exact the same thorough
proficiency of the Senior and Junior Wardens. The Master is the
governing officer of his Lodge, and as the Wardens in time ascend
to the oriental chair, they must exhibit the Constitutional <qualifications
respecting our laws. \Ve think the proposal of the Grand Master for
a change in the law adding to the necessary qualifications of the
Wardens would imp9se burdens upon the Wardens and Inspectors
which are not warranted at this time, and therefore should not be
adopted.

Grand Lodge did not concur in the report of the committee, and the matter was referred to the Committee on
Jurisprudence, with directions to present an amendment to
Section 137 of the Constitution, to the effect "that the
Wardens shall be proficient in those portions of the Constitution and Regulations which relate to the government
of a Lodge."
Transcript of Trial Records
5. The Grand Master recommends that a copy of all charges
of unmasonic conduct be filed in the Grand Secretary's office, and
that upon conclusion of every trial a transcript of the trial record be

281

The report of the committee was not sustained and the
matter was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence to
formulate appropriate legislation in accordance with the
Grand Master's recommendation.
Degree Teams
6. Your committee 1s m full accord with the Grand Master, in
the matter of his order of March 31-, 1930, reported in his annual
message, on the subject of "degree teams." Our law requires that
the Master or one of the Wardens be present at every meeting of a
Lodge and that all work be done by them, or in their pres.ence, and
under their direction. When another person or other persons, excepting the installed officer or officers of another Lodge, perform work
in his Lodge the Master is charged with the responsibility of determining his or their qualification to do the work in accordance with
our ritual and to see that the work done conforms therewith. The
Master cannot delegate his power to the Grand Lecturer nor evade
his responsibility in the premises.

Adopted.
Committee on Education
7. Your committee has considered with care the comments of
the Grand Master and the Report of the Committee on Education,
respecting our educational program, as well as the verbal protests
made by brethren opposed to the program.
The Grand Lodge of California for many years has engaged in
an earnest effort to develop a satisfactory and beneficial educational
work on behalf of Lodges and their members. Thus far that effort
has been experimental and the results have not fully met our expectations, but the committee has been diligent and faithful and has accomplished much in the face of more or less apathy and indifference.

283

l'ROC.KEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The report of the committee indicates progress and evinces confidence
in the ultimate success of this importan t undertaking. The work of
this, the Educational Committee, t o be successful, will require a
sustained and continuing support and cooperation from the Lodges
and if such support is not to be forthcoming, that fact should be made
plain to Grand Lodge.
We recommend the continuance of the Committee on Education
and suggest that during the coming year it make a careful investigation
of the plans and experiences of other jurisdictions in the matter of
Masonic Education. with a view of adopting methods that will be
more productive of r esults than those now pursued.

consideration of the proposal and t he supporting documents and
arguments, your Committee is of the opinion that Section 165, as it
now stands, is frequently misunderstood and that substantial changes
should be made therein to serve the best interests of Masonry in
California. In such form as may be approved and prepared by the
Cqmmittee on Jurisprudence it is reco mmended that Section 165 be
amended to provide :
(a) That it is the duty of every Ma st er Mason to be a member of
some Lodge ;
(b) That every non-affiliated Mason residing in this jurisdiction
who shall neglect or refuse to make application for membership to
some Lodge therein and to become a m ember thereof within one year
from the date of the issuance of his <limit, shall be deemed unworthy
of Masonic consideration and shall not be entitled to an y of the
rights, privileges or benefits of the fra ternity.
(c) That upon the rejection of an application for affiliation in
any Lodge, such Lodge shall return to the applicant all amounts paid
hy him at the time of such application.

282

Adopted.
Claim against Widows and Orphans Fund
8. The Grand Master r efers t o Grand L odge an unfortunate
controversy between the Trustees of the Masonic H omes and Aahmes
Temple of the Shrine, over a death benefit of $1,500 claimed to be
due from the Widows and Orphans Fund of Aahmes Temple to the
Masonic Homes. It is apparent that serious friction has developed
in a matter which should be adjusted by Masons in a spirit of kindness
and on a basis of equity. While the present situation is truly
regrettable, yet we believe that it should and can be speedily settled
in a righteous and satisfactory manner, and therefore r ecommend that
the Grand Master appoint a special committee of three m em bers with
full powers to adjust this controver sy with Aahmes Temple on behalf
of this Grand L odge.

Adopted.
Long Beach Temple
9. We do not concur in the Grand Master's recommendation
that the Long Beach Temple Association be instructed to file a civil
suit against certain parties for restitution of moneys improperly
diverted. Sufficient facts are not before us to enable us to pass upon
the questions of liability, proper remedy and other legal aspects of
this matter, even if· we were qualified to determine the legal rights
of the Association. It appears to us that th e Association should be
advised in this matter by its legal counsel, rather than by Grand
Lodge.

Adopted.
Non-Affiliates
10. Brother Roy H. Parkinson, Inspector of the 33rd District,
proposes amendments to Section 165 of the Constitution, and after

Report adopted and the matter referred to t he Committee on Jurisprudence, with directions to present appropriate legislation.
Standing of Restored Masons
11. Brother Parkinson also proposes that Section 2 11 of the
Constitution be amended by adding the following provisions thereto:
"Such a restored Mason shall pay as dues $12.00 a year in advance
to the Grand Lodge, the dues beginning on the date of rest oration
by Grand Lodge and continuing until such time as he is elected to
m ember ship in some Lodge. The Grand Secr etary shall issue a dues
receipt for the same, which receipt shall serve to all intents and purposes as a <limit when applying for affiliation. A Mason so restored
who refuses or neglects to pay dues as herein prescribed shall not
receive any Masonic rights, priviliges or charities until he shall have
paid all back dues to the Grand Secretary accruing since his restoration and shall have received permission of the Grand Master to regain
such standing; or until he shall have been elected a member of some
L odge by affiliation according to provision of Section 122. In case
financial distress be shown, the Grand Master may order the dues
remitted, then and there declare such a restored Mason entitled to
all Masonic privileges and benefits an d cause the Grand Ser etary to
issue the receipt as above provided."
Under our ex isting laws the only dues paying members of Grand
Lodge are the m embers of L odges of this Grand jurisdiction. The

284

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

llHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

proposed amendment to the Constitution would create a special class
of Masons paying dues to Grand Lodge and your Committee is of
the opinion that it is unwise and inexpedient to adopt the proposed
amendment. Your Committee is also of the opinion that a restored
Mason should occupy practically the same status as a demitted nonaffiliated Mason and that to maintain his good standing he should
apply to and be elected a member of some Lodge.
We respectfully recommend that the proposed amendment be
not adopted.

The proposed amendment reads as follows:
"Section 96-A: The home port of a vessel belonging to the
United States Navy (said port having been designated by the United
States Navy Department) shall be considered as the bona fide res.idence of any of its crew, and any person attached to said vessel for
the six months last past may petition for and receive the degrees of
Masonry in any Lodge having jurisdiction of the home port of the
vessel, without the necessity of the L odge securing a special dispensation to receive the petition."
The proposed amendment is approved as to form by the Committee on Jurisprudence. It appears to your Committee that the
request of these Masters is founded upon reason and that the adoption
of the proposed amendment would be to the best interests of the Craft
in this jurisdiction and, therefore, respectfully recommend the adoption thereof.

Adopted.
Expense of Grand Master
Your Committee is of the opm10n that the Grand Lodge should
appropriate an adequate sum to cover the expenses incurred by the
Grand Master in the discharge of the duties of his office, and that a
sum not in excess of $5,000 is reasonable and proper. We approve
the recommendation of the Grand Master on this subject, provided
the Finance Committee also approves the same. ·

Adopted, and referred to the Finance Committee.
Masonic History
13. Your Committee has considered the report of the Committee
on Masonic History and feels that Grand Lodge should be highly
gratified witlt the progress that is being made by this Committee and
the valuable service it is rendering to Grand Lodge.
·
There can be no difference of opinion respecting the desirability
of continuing this Committee and granting it sufficient funds with
which to pursue its important work.
We respectfully recommend that the Committee on History be
continued, and that its request for an appropriation have the sympathetic consideration of the Committee on Finance.

Adopted, and referred to the Finance Committee.
Persons in the Naval Service
14. Your Committee has had under consideration the request
presented by David L. Potter, Master of Naval Lodge No. 87; Russell
C. Jones, Master of Solano Lodge No. 229 and John K. Harrison,
Master of Vallejo Lodge No. 487, that a new section be added to our
Constitution, to be numbered 96-A, and to provide a special rule on
the subject of r esidence to apply to persons in the Naval Service of
the United States.

Adopted, and Section %-A wa~ added to the Constitution by unanimous vote.
Standing of Masons Whose Dues Are Remitted
15. There has been referred to your Committee a proposal to
amend the Constitution to read as follows:
" Section 140: None but members in good standing, whose dues
are .paid, shall be entitled to vote at an election; and every voter shall
be eligible to any office in the Lodge. If the dues of a member have
been remitted, in accord·a nce with the provisions of Section 128, at
any time within one year previous to an election, then such member
shall not be di~qualified from voting at such election, or holding office,
though the dues of such member accruing since such remission have
not been paid."
Also, a resolution to amend Section 2, Article IX, of the By-laws,
to read as follows:
"Section 2: No member, who shall be in arrears for dues at the
time of the annual election, shall be permitted to vote, or shall be
eligible to any office; but such disqualification shall not apply to a
member whose dues have been remitted in accordance with the provisions of Section 128 of the Constitution, at any time within one year
previous to the annual election."
The purpose of these amendments is to provide for the good
standing at the time of an election of a member whose dues have
been remitted. Our present law provides that none but m embers in
good standing, whose dues are paid, shall be entitled to vote at an
election, and also, that a Lodge cannot remit in advance. Therefore,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

286

a Mason whose dues have been remitted cannot vote at an election,
nor be elected to office. The remission of dues should be equivalent
to the payment of the same so far as affects the Masonic standing of
a brother.
The proposed amendments are approved as to form by the Committee on Jurisprudence.
vVe recommend the adoption of the amendment to Section 140
of the Constitution, and also r'ecommend the adoption of the amendment to Section 2, Article IX of th e By-laws.

Report and recommendation adopted , and Section ·140 of
the Constitution and Section 2, Article IX, of the By-Laws
were amended by unanimous vote.
Suspensions.
16. Your Committee has considered the resolution presented by
the Master of Crockett Lodge proposing an amendment to Section
210 of the Constitution.
The proposa l is intended to incorporate in our Law a provision
prohibiting a suspended Mason from applying to the Lodge oftener
than once a year for restoration.
We are of the opinion that no sufficient reason exis ts for the
modification of our present law. There is a single instance in which
a Lodge would be relieved of some possible annoyance by limiting
th e rights of a suspended brother, but that instance does not afford
a justification for the proposed change and we, therefore, recommend
that the amendment be not adopted.

Adopted.
Applications for Affiliation
17. H . Z . Myers, Master of Caledonia Lodge No. 486, and the
Masonic Secretaries Association of Southern California have presented requests for an am endment to Section 247 providing the form
of A pplication s for Affiliation. It is represented to us that the consensus of opinion is that additional facts would help materially in the
matter of investigation and the keepin g of proper records, and that the
form of Application for Affiliation should show such facts.
W e arc of the opinion that the request should be granted and that
Section 247 should be amended in such form as shall be approved
by the Committee on Jurisprudence, to show the following facts
res pecting the applicant for affiliatio n:
1. Place and date of birth . .
2. Place of business and occupation.

GRAND LODGE OF UALIFORNIA

287

3.
4.

The name of the Lodge of which he was last a member,
If the applicant has been affiliated with more than one Lodge,
the names and locations of the same.
5. References to others than recommending brethren.
We recommend the formulation and adoption by this Gr.and
Lodge of an amendment to said section, embodying the foregoing
matter.

·Report and recommendation adopted, and the matter referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Group Balloting
18. Your Committee is of the opinion that our law on the subject
of group balloting should not be changed to permit group balloting
when but two petitions are to be balloted upon. The purpose of the
statute is to reduce time and labor where there are many petitions
before a Lodge for ballot. No particular burden is imposed upon a
Lodge to ballot twice at a stated meeting.
Your Committee recommends that the proposal of Past Master
Lyndall of Arlington Lodge No. 414, for an amendment to Section
103)1, to the Constitution be not adopted.

Adopted.
Foreign Language Lodges
19. Special Inspector Brother Louis Muller has directed our
attention to what is regarded by some of our members to be an unjust
discrimination against the Lodges working in foreign languages, and
Grand Master Wollenberg, in order that the same be corrected, has
presented a resolution to change the decision embodied in Section 83
of Decisions and Regulations. In 1929 a decision was made that "No
Lodge, other than one expressly permitted to cohfer degrees in a particular foreign language, may allow a degree to be conferred therein
by persons conferring it in such foreign language." Brother Wollenberg's recommendation is that the policy adopted in 1929 be abrogated
and that foreign language Lodges of this jurisdiction be permitted to
confer a degree or degrees upon a candidate of another Lodge in the
Lodge in which such candidate has been elected, when invited to do
so by ·such Lodge, in the language of the foreign languag.e Lodge,
provided the candidate speaks, reads and understands such foreign
language.
Your committee is of the opinion that the present regulation on
this subject is discriminatory and is objectionable to our brethren of

288

GRAND LODGE Of :! ;:ALJ!fOHNIA

PROCEEDINGS ' OF THE/,

foreign language Lo<lges,' ;and therefore rec0'rtltnends the 'a doption
of ,the •propos.ed' regulation.
, •

. The report was adopted :a nd referred to tire· ·co:m mittee
on Jnrisprudence.
,· 1
•
· •
·
~emoval of Place of Meefng

"
20. Brother C. I-I. Eckert, Past Master of Holtville Lodge''N oi
425, propose£ an amendment to Secti-on 93 of the C::onstitutioi;i, to
read as follows:
, , .
., :
Resohicd, that SLction 93 of the Constitution be ameniled to read
as follows:
, 1· • .,.
"Secti_on 93. N' o Lodge shall remove its pl.a ce of meeting uniess
notice shall !~ave beei1 given at a sta't!;d mei;ting that a resolution for
such removal ,\.ill be offered at the next succeedln~ one; nor uriie~~
such resolut:on shall ha~e been ad~pt~ d by the votes 6{
le~st 'two~
thirds of the members present at such su~'ceeding stated' m~etin~f ~b~
shail ·such rem.oval then take place until the actfon of th'e ~od~e shall
have been approved by the Grand · Lodge or Grand Master."
.
Th.e form of the amendmei1.t has b~_en approved by the c;::omll)i.tt.e e
on Jurisprudence. '
' ' '
'

at

Your Committee believes that a ch;nge of place of ~eeting ,by a
Lodge is a matter of such importance that it deserves th~ attention
and approval of the Grand Master or Grand Lodge and therefore
respectfully recommends the adoption of the 'amendment.
· • ·; · ~ · r

The form of the amendment having been approved by
the Committee on Jurisprudence, the report of the com ~
n~ittee 'w as a\:lopted, and Section 93 of the Constit.ution was
a:~ended by unanimous vote.
·
A~nual Communication in Oakland .
21: Your Committee has considered the proposal made by Earl
Warren on behalf of the Masters and Wardens Cltib of the East Bay;
that the Anriual Comi:nunic'ation of thiS Grand Lodge in the year 1~32;
be held · in the 'city ·of Oakland, and presents · an appropriate amend·
ment to Section 11 nf the Constitution providing for such meeting in
said place.
' ·'
Your 'Corilinittee recomrnends that the Annual Comfuunication
of·. 1932 be h eld in the City of Oakland and that the Committee on
Jurisprudence be requested to present an appropriate amendrltent t'd
the Constitution providing therefor.

Report adopt:e·d and referred to the Committee on Juris·
prudence.

289

T,hanks ~o Depar~ent of ·Parks

:· zz.

WHEREAS the Department of Parks of the City and County'. of
San Francisco has prepared and grown in · beautiful colored flowers
in .. .Go1den Gate Park, a plat reading "W elome Grand Lodge F. &
A. :M ..,....,19.30''. and .squar e and compass; now, therefore, be it
Resofoed, that the ·Grand Secretary be, and he is hereby authorized
and directed to write a letter of appreciation to the Department of
Parks and Playgrounds for the attractive floral display prepared as a
compliment to this Grand Lodge.
I

·.A:9opt_ed_.

Atiniversai:y of 'the Birth of George Washington

23~ By request of th~ Qeor~e .W ashington bicentennial ~ommis~
sio1;1, of which the President of the United States is c;hairman, your
c 0'nimi tte~ 'on Pol'ic'y and General Purposes presents the following
reso lutl~n and reco~me'nds its adoption:
I' .
. . '. .
,.
WHEREAS, The Congress of the Uqited States has created a Con;i·
1~1issi~n t\). arran~c a fitting natlon·wide ;o,~servance of the _T wo, Hun,dredt\l An,niversary of the Birth of George Wa~hington in 1932, and
.. . WH~~~s, The Commission so created, <;amposed of the President
of the United Stat.es,, the Vice-President of the United States, the
Speaker of the House of Rep,resentatives, four mem.b ers .of the United
~~ates Senate, ,four members of the H9use. ot Representatives, and
eight citizens appointed by the President. of tpe United States, is
charged with the duty of planning and directing the ce\t;bra~ion, and
0

1

0

~

j

''' ·.· ~WHEREAS, The. hWh ,Purpose of t.h e event. is to .com~e:n~rate the
life; character and achievements of the most 11lustr10us citizen of our
Republi.c and to give every man, woman and child livi,ng u1;1der .~he
Stars ~nd Stripes an opportunity to take part in the celebration whi,c~.
will, be outsta.nding ii1 t_h~ W"orld's history, a.n.d
WHf:REAS, , The George ·washington Bicentennial Commission,
desir.ing jthe f,uU cooperation of. the people jn th.e United; States .,has
c"ie,n,ded ,a most cordial and urgent invitation to our nrganization to
parti.c;ipate. in the celebration, therefore be. 'it
Reso,1-ved,• That the Grand Lodge of California, F . & A M. does
hereby· endorse the program ·-0f obsetvance of the Two Hundredth
Annive'r sary of the · Birth of George Washington, to take place in
1932; . accept:.with appreciation, the invitation of the George Wash·
iugtc111 Bicentennial Commission, and pledge this organization to
exte.nd ean;1est coop~ration to the United S.taMs Commission in . all
po.ssiblt1 ways, so that future generations .o f American citizens. may •

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

be inspired to live according to the example and precepts of Washingtan's exalted life and character, and thus perpetuate the American
Republic, and be it further
.Rualved, That this resolution be incorporated in the official proceeding of this meeting and that a copy thereof be transmitted to the
George Washington Bicentennial Commission, Washington, D. C.

. Your' committee is of the opinion that the Grand Lodge "Zur
Sonne" of Bayreuth is entitled to our fraternal regard and therefore
recommends that it be recognized.

290

Adopted.
Foreign Grand Lodges:
24. Germany: In 1928 your committee reported in a generat way
respecting the eight Grand Lodges of Germany and directed your
attention to the fact that the National Mother Grand Lodge of the
Three Globes was recognized by us in 1881 and that the Grand Lodge
of California was in fraternal accord therewith.
For some years our harmonious relations with that Grand Lodge
were suspended because of the establishment by it of a Lodge in
New York, but upon a withdrawal of the Lodge and observance of
the jurisdictional rights of the Grand Lodge of New York, relations
of amity were renewed. Undoubtedly the confusion resulting from
this epirode is responsible for our error in failing to report in our
Proceedings the fact of our recognition of the National Mother Grand
Lodge of the Prussian States, called of the "Three Globes."
· In 1829 this Grand Lodge recognized the Grand Lodge of Hamburg, the Mother Grand Lodge of the Electic Union, the Grand Royal
York Lodge of Friendship and the National Grand Lodge of All
German Freemasons. ·
Your committee now has before it a request for the recognition
of a sixth of the eight German Grand Lodges, viz.: the Grand Lodge
"Zur Sonne" of Bayreuth. It appears that this Grand Lodge has been
in existence for more than a hundred years and is recognized by and
in fraternal concord and amrty with the other German Grand Lodges
recognized by this Grand 'Lodge. Cordial relations were disturbed
about two years ago because some of the Lodges of the Grand Lodge
"Zur Sonne" were permitted to use instead of the Holy Bible a plain
white book in and on which was no printing except the single word
"God." This white book had been in use for more than fifty years.
In order to preserve peace and harmony and to conform to an essential landmark, the Grand Lodge required all its Lodges to display
the Great Light upon their altars and to discard the white book.
The Grand Lodge has forty subordinate Lodges, many of which
are. located in important cities of Germany, and numbers in excess of
4,000· members. The personnel of the tnembership is reported to us
to he of a very fine character.

291

Adopted .
Czecho-Slovakia: There are two Grand Lodges in the CzechoS lovakian Republic. One of them is styled the Grand Lodge Lessing
"Zu den drei Ringen" (of the three Rings) and the other the National
Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia (Narodni Velika Loze Ceskoslovenska). Both are seated at Prague. Lessing works in the German
language, while the National Grand Lodge works in the Czechian or
Bohemian language.
These two Grand Lodges are in fraternal unity and concord and
each gives full recognition to the other. Grand Lodge Lessing has 23
Lodges and about 1200 members. The National Grand Lodge has
more Lodges and a larger membership.
After an exhaustive examination the Grand Lodge of England on
June 4, 1930, recognized both of these Grand Lcfdges and· they are
recognized by many important American jurisdictions. They are the
sovereign authority of symbolic Masonry in their jurisdiction, and it
appears to your committee that the requests for recognition are entitled to favorahle consideration; it therefore respectfully recommends
that the Grand Lodge of California recognize the Grand Lodge
Lessing and the National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia.

Adopted.
Switzerland: Swiss Grand Lodge "Alpina." An investigation of
the conditions in Masonry in Switzerland has resulted in satisfying
your committee that the Grand Lodge "Alpina" is a Masonic power
conforming to our standards for recognition; that it is sovereign in
its jurisdiction and is active as a Grand Lodge with many subordinates
and a large membership. It is in fraternal relations with the Grand
Lodges of England, Ireland, Scotland, Alabama, Iowa, Kentucky,
New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio and South Carolina.
The chairman of your committee has visited two of the subordinate Lodges of the Grand Lodge "Alpina" and has
several 0£° its
members, and by personal bbservation has satisfied himself of the
Masonic regularity and standing of that Grand Lodge.
No matter how meritorious they may be, the Grand Lodge
"Alpina" should not be confused with the two so-called International
Masonic Associations in Switzerland. These are, the International
Masonic Association of Geneva, · composed of twenty-four Grand
Lodges, and the Universal Masonic League of Basie, composed of

met

PROCEEDINGS OF TH1!: 1

292.

individual Masons residing in all parts of the World and devoted to
research and the cultivation of worldwide good will and peace.. ,
Your committee recommends that the Grand Lodge of California
recognize the Swiss Grand Lodge "Alpina."

Adopted.

uRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

293

· : Ybur committee recomme11ds that the recognition of the Grand
I~trdg'e of ·California be accord.e d t o

' 'fTlfo N~Honal Grand Lodge of Colombia at Barranquilla
fh~ National Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagena
The
Grand.
Lodge
of the Republic at. Bogota .
.'/
.
.

.

•

'

Adopted.
Colombia: Sin'c e 1922 your Committee has had under advisement
the requests for recognition of the three Grand Lodges of the R~public
of Colombia, namely:
·
The National Grand Lodge of Colombia at Barranquilla,
The National Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagena, and
. The Grand Lodge of the Republic of Bogota.
The Republic of Colombia is the northwesterly Republic in South
America, bounded on the north by the Caribbean sea and Panama
and on the west by the Pacific ocean. It is a rugged, mountainous
country of vast distances. By reason of the difficulties of cmnrnunication, and barriers between different sections erected by nature, it was
found desirable, if not neces.sary, to establish more than one Grand
Lodge to lead and govern the Craft. This was done by the establishment ·of three Grand Lodges, each having exclusive sovereign juris,
diction over those States of the Republic which compose .its territory.
The three Grand Lodges are bound together by a treaty ,of amity a,nd
work in entire concord and harmony.· Today all the symbolic 1,pdges
of Colombia are obedient to and under Masonic jurisdiction and so
far as we can ascertain there is no confusion in the Craft.
·
Masonry was originally established in Colombia (then New
Granada) in 1833 under the Supreme Council system, and in August,
1922, the Supreme Council relinquished all power arid authority. over
symbolic Lodges and the craft degrees and recognized · the three
symbolic Grand Lodges as sovereign a,nd supreme in their respective
furisdictions. The fairness and friendliness with which our Colom:bfan
brethren approached and solved a difficult problem merits:. our com~
m'e ridation. It was such an unusual method.
. '
Colombia is a growing and progressive State,. and Masonry is
an institutio.n of usefulness there which is also gro~.ing and developing. There are large numbers .o f Americans, English and French who
are members of the sy~bolic Lodges and hope for recog~ition of
their Masonic standing by the Lodges o.f their native lands. There
are English speaking Lodges at Bogota arid elsewhere of which several
native Californians are members.
.
.
. The. Grand Lodges of Colombia are recognized by the qr~n.d
Lodges of Louisiana, Massachusetts, New York, North. Carqli1;1a,
England, Ireland and other countries.
.
.

Brazil: Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has
received requests for recognition from
..., The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
The, Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paula
The Grand Lodge of the State of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of the State of Para.
In 1925 this Grand Lodge recognized the Grand Orient of Brazil
pursuaiit to a recommendation of this committee, which reported that
the Grand Orient of Brazil was a body founded upon the Supreme
Council system and the only Masonic power in Brazil. Your Committee found that its authority was universally recognized throughout
the Republic and for that reason favored the recognition.
Since the adoption of the report the Masonic conditions in Brazil
have undergone a great change. Until 1927 there existed in Brazil no
independence of ancient craft Masonry, but the symbolic degrees were
ruled by the Grand Orient, which administered many degrees of many
Rites. Moreover, the· executive bodies of the Grand Orient worked,
by force of law, in French, while the language of the country is
Portuguese. In June, 1927, seven symbolic L odges of the Scottish
Rite abandoned the Grand Orient "to follow the regular trail of
Masonry.?.' They formed themselves into the Grand Lodge of Rio de
Janeiro.and took as the basis for its constitution and work the Ancient
Landrparks, the Constitutions of Anderson and the Symbolism of
Maekay.. The Grand Lodge. is absolutely independent and sovereign
and works only in the symbolic degrees.
Following this example, Lodges in the different S tates of the
Republic of Brazil seceded from the Grand Orient and formed Grand
Lodges of symbolic Masonry. Thus far in eight States have such
Grand Lodges been formed, and our requests for recognition come
from five of these eight.
Ari' examination of the constitutions and laws of these new Grand
1:.odges and an inquiry into their present status and claims persuades
us to believe that they arc en titled to recognition in due time. For the

295

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

present they should be allowed to demonstrate their stability and the
allegiance of their membership to the policy and organizations newly
adopted. We are not fully informed respecting the conditions now
prevailing in Brazil as a result of these secessions, which may unfortunately turn out to be a schism instead of a revolution.
Favorable action on the foregoing requests will necessitate withdrawing recognition of the Grand Orient of Brazil. The reason for
that recognition has ceased, and that Power has not the same claims
to our consideration as it had in 1925 when it was the only Masonic
governing body in its jurisdiction; but we think this an inopportune
time to take any action whatsoever because of the negotiations between
the Grand Orient of Brazil and the Grand Lodge of England and
the possibilities of complete accord resulting therefrom in the near
future.

membership, but has heretofore failed to adopt appropriate legislation
to carry the policy into effect. Y our Committee favors the adoption
of Constitutional amendments to permit dual membership.

294

Report adopted.
Various: Your Committee has under consideration the requests
for recognition of the following Grand Lodges:
The Grand Lodge of Paraguay
The Grand Lodge of Venezuela
The Grand Lodge of Amazons and Acre
The Grand Lodge of Vera Cruz
The Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
The Grand Lodge of the Pacific
The Grand Orient of Rumania, and
Grand Lodge Vallee de Mexico.
We are unable at this time to make a definite recommendation
with respect to the request of any of these bodies for recognition.
This is due in most part to a lack of information, and in the cases of
the Mexican Grand Lodges to disturbances and conflicts that we have
i10 power to ameliorate or adjust. The chairman of your Committee
will visit Mexico next month and make a personal examination of
some of the matters which are not clear to your Committee.

Report adopted.
Dual Membership
25. The Grand Master recommends the adoption of a limited form
of dual membership and proposes certain changes in the Constitution.
This Grand Lodge in 1922 adopted the principle of unlimited dual

WM. RHODES HERVEY,
GEORGE F. RODDEN,
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN,
WM. H.

w ASTE,

EUGENE S. ELKUS,

Lours SUTTER,

Committee

The report of the committee was adopted, and after
considerable discussion the last sentence of the report was
by the committee amended to read as follows:
"Your committee has consistently favored the policy of dual
membership and recommends the adoption of Constitutional amendments to permit unrestricted dual membership."

This also was adopted, and the whole matter referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence, \vith directions to present appropriate legislation.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
Suspension of Master

To the M:.w:.Grand L odae of California:
1. With reference to the suspension from office by the Grand·
Master of the Master of one of our Lodges, reported on pages 19.
and 20 of his Message, no claim is made of insufficiency of facts to
suppoct the conclusion that suspension was proper. It appear's
that just previous to the installation of this Master's succe's sor, th.e
Grand Master terminated this suspension, in view of the fact that
the Master had apologized for his actions and that he felt that
further suspensi~n, involving as it would deprivation of his rank as
a Past Master, would be a greater punishment than was wafra.nted
for the offense. In view of all the circumstances we consider this·
action entirely proper.
We recommend that the action of the Grand Master be approved.

Adopted.

296:

Pl<UCEEDIN1JS OF THE

Stop Order Relative to Advancement
2. The Grand Master reported in his Message (pages 20 and
21) the receipt of a communication from the Master ·of West Gate
Lodge No. 335, asking that a "stop" order, made in 1927 by a predecessor in office, prohibiting the advancement of a Fellow Craft,
on the grounds that such order was a " usurpation of power by the
Grand Master." The letter, according to the Message, contained
"almost inexcusably disrespectful language" regarding certain of our
Grand Master's predecessors in office. The Grand Master felt that,
under -all the circumstances, the only appropriate authority to deal
"not only with the question itself, but also with the manner in which
it has been presented," is the Grand L odge, and so informed the
Master of West Gate Lodge, with the further information tha.t he
would refer the entire situation to the Grand Lodge and ~ould tak~
no affirmative action in the meantime. This he has done. We believe that his entire action in the matter was proper and should be
approved.
In view of the fact that the matter referred to 'by the Master of
West Gate Lodge has been referred to the Grand Lodge, with the
request of the Grand Master that due action be had thereon, it is
necessary to discuss the controversy on the merits.
'
It appears that the application for the degrees made by the
Fellow Craft to \Vest Gate L odge in 1927, while stating that the
applicant had previously been rejected by one of the two Lodges in
the city in which h e then resided, failed to state clearly that he had
also been rejected by the other Lodge in t hat city, although he did
in a general way speak of other applications made by him. He did,
however, fully and specifically state the facts to the committee on
investigation. He was elected to receive the three degrees, was
initiated as an Enter ed Apprentice, and passed to the degree. of
Fellow Craft. Question then being made as to his . advancement. ,tq
the third degree, the then Grand Master , on complaint made, directe.d
that charges be preferred against him for failur~ to . state in his. ;ipplh
cation the true facts as to previous r ejections, that trial thereon be
had in another Lodge, and that pending determination of such charges,
West Cote L odge 1·efrai11 from ad~•ancing him to the third degre.e.
. This is the " stop" order referred to. In making ·it, the Grand
Master pursued the proper course, for it was not only within his
power, but incumbent on him in the performance of his duty" to
keep the situation exactly as it was pendill,<J final determi1U1tion of the
charges mddl'. The Fellow Craft was duly tried and a verdiq of
acquittal given. No appeal was taken and the judgment became final
nearly three years ago. Insofar as appears, no objection to the advancement of the Fellow Craft has ever been made by an)' inember

GRA,~D .. LODGE. OF

CA,LIFO};{N! A

297

of West Gate Lodge, and the question to be determined is whether,
under. our Constitution, the Lodge should be held to be free to proceid' with such a dvancement, if it so desires.
Under the circumstances w e consider the situation with regard
t o the :Fellow Craft to be as fo llows :
· . Notwithstanding any defect in his petition in the r espect mentioned, he was in fact initiated and passed to the degree of Fellow
Craft, and thereby became a Fellow Craft Mason, with all the rig hts
appertaining thereto, and could be deprived of that standing only by
expulsion upon charges made and trial thereon, just as in the case
of a Master Mason. If he was g uilty of wilful misrepr esentatio n in
his pet ition for the degrees, charges would lie against him on account
thereof, and on conviction judg m ent of expulsion would properly
follow. Such a judgment would deprive him of a ll standing. As
no.te.d·, such charges w~re made, trial had thereon and judg m ent of
ac.quittal given, which judgment has long since become fi nal. He is
still, therefore, a . Fellow Craft M ason in good standing, with all
right-tJ.PPertaining to that status under our law.
. , llolctfog this status, his L odg e should be h eld to have the right
i o...a dva nce him to the third degree, unless, µpon objection made by
a .member of that L odg e, advancement is deni<:d by the L odge, as
p~ovide d in sections 109 to 111 of the Con stitution. Such a dvancement m ay be.. had notwithstanding such ohj ection, when in the opinion
oL.two~ thirds of the member s presem whe.n the. vote is had, there
i~ , ~o .v~lid a,nd Masonic cause aga inst advanci::ment. In detennining
wheth~r ther~.is .such cause .for denying advancement,. we . think the
mei,Jibers..· have: the . right to consider any valid ' Masonic objection,
incl~dipg , ari.Y. o( the matt~rs ··involved in th~ charge ·Of immasoµic
co;ii:iU:.ct ~pon . whlsh~ he ·was ~quitted.' The 'two proceecilnga , ~re' entireiy. .;dis.tlnch in .clia(act~r. ·a nd obJect. to. be acc9m'p1ishe<Can~<l ",a11
<is.qvitt~(·~~~ ~q~t;g~~ o( ~n~1asoqi~ c.o,~due\ iooidng,. to hi~ .expul.:ii,qn
slwuld .n ot be regar(\e d as. :l:. bar to the consideratio.n of .those mat.ter~
by- tjte1 ·;,;~'mbf~i ~ ~f, th~ I~~dge ·in d~t~r~irijng wh~ther. h(,sho~l·c( b.~
advanced.
'

I

'

~

..

.. · ..,Pb.Ject!?.n,~tn hiJ; .<td,vancemen t by .a.fly member of We~t· Gate
h,o,.qg~ : cap .}aw.f.ully be made .at :a ny time before such a dvanceroent.
If; i;.u ch .. qbj~ctio.n he . m ade, it must be disposed of in th e lllanner
Pfpyjded .lily .our . law. If s ustained, the L odge cannot legally advance
him, and such sustaining would be equivalen t to a r ejection for the
degree of Master Mason. If not sustained, or if no such objection
he made, West Gate L odge should not be r estrained eith er hy the
Grand Lodge or by the" Gta1ici M aste'r from advancing h im.

.· ~:... ·y~~9~rt, ~ocipt~ci. ··" , · ·

299

PUOCEEDINGA OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Misrepresentation in Petition
·3. The Grand Master reported in his Message (pp. 21 and 22)
that in four cases applicants for the three degrees had failed to state
in their applications that they had been previously rejected by another Lodge, had been elected to receive the three degrees, and had
received the first or first and second degrees when the matter was
brought to his attention.
As to each of these cases he made a11 order, the form of which
appears on pages 21 and 22 of the Message.
It will be observed that this order, simply because of this defect
in the petition s, in effect tre ats all that has been done under the
petitio1is as in effective for any purpose and void (except that it
recognizes that the applicant by his initiation, or by his initiation
and passing, has been made an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft,
as the case may be), requires the return of the fees , and authorizes
advancement only upon a new petition for the remaining degree or
degrees; and a new unanimous election to receive the same.
Assuming that the actual initiation, passing, or raising, of a candidate whose petition is defective in the respect mentioned, rrtakes
him an Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft or Master Masoh as the
case may be, as is conceded by this order, and by all the decisions,
and as we think is obvious, our Constitutional provis 'ons are so
written that there is no basi s for any distinction, with regard to the
rights of the subordinate Lodge to adv~nce the candidate, between
Entered Apprentices or Fellow Crafts in good standing whose petitions for the degrees are in due form, and those whose petitions
are not in due form . In the matter of both, the written law as to
advancement is the same. There is nothing in the law as now written,
which would justify a conclusion that a new election for the remaining degrees can be required except in the single case where, by objection made, advancement has been denied by the Lodge, such
denial made under the provisions of sections 109 to 111 of the Constitution being regarded as tantamount to a final rejection for the
remaining degrees.
We have just discussed a somewhat similar question in principle in re W es t Gate Lodge No. 335. In view of what we there said,
and the reaso ns stated in this report, we are forced to the conclusion
th a t the se orders, howe ver laudable their purpose, were not-in accord
with our law as it now is.

No. 620. This Lodge is located in the town of Ocean Beach in San
Diego county on the promontory of Point Loma, by which name it
is generally known, and it is never referred to as a peninsula, while
there are other places in California which are so called. For this
reason it is claimed that the name "Peninsula" is misleading, and the
brethren are desirous of overcoming this difficulty by the change
proposed.
The proceedings are in due form, the name chosen will not conflict with the na~e of any other Lodge, and no good cause appearing
to deny the petition, we propose ·the following resolution and recom. mend its adoption:
Resolved, that the name of Peninsula Lodge No. 620 be, and it
is hereby changed to Point Loma Lodge No. 620, and that the necessary changes be made in its charter, seal and records.

298

Adopted.
Change of Lodge Name
4. Your committee has had under consideration .the petition of
Peninsula L odge No. 620 to change its name to Point Loma Lodge

Adopted.
Elk Grove Lodge vs. Harding Lodges
5. Your committee has considered the charges filed by Elk
Grove Lodge No. 173 against Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579,
in which it is claimed that the latter named Lodge knowingly and
wilfully received and acted upon the petition for degrees of a man
n:siding in the jurisdiction of Elk Grove Lodge, without norice or
r'e quest for a waiver.·
·
It is unfortunate that two Masonic Lodges should arrive at such
a vital difference as to necessitate charges by one against another,
and ' discord permitted to interrupt the harmony that should prevail·
am<irtg ·mel'l and Masons. The charges are sufficient in form, l>ut
we · believe that this is not a matter which should require action by
a commission elected to try the cause, but that if the brethren of
the two Lodges would meet in the spirit of our Institution, they can
adjust their differences amicably and satisfactorily.
We therefore recommend that these charges be ·referred to the
Grand Master for such action as he may deem necessary.

Report adopted.
Dual Membership
6. The Committee on Jurisprudence; in accordance with the
directions of this Grand Lodge, offers the following resolution to
amend section 157 of the Constitution, relating to dual membersbip :
Resolved, th~t section 157 of the Constitution be amenc{ed to read
as .foitows :
.
·
0

"Sec. 157.. No Mason shall be a member of mare than one Lodge
in this jurisdiction at the same time.,"

300

301

GRA:ND LODGE ·oF CALIFOkNIA

. ·• -PR:OCEEDINGS OF THE

The report was adopted, and after considerable discussion;' Section 157 of the .Constitution was amended in :accordance with the r~solu_tion by a five-sixths vote.
The following jurisdictions permit dual m.emb!'!rship:
Alabama
New Jersey
Saskatchewan ···
Scotland
Alberta
New Hampshire
So. Australia
British Columbia
New South Wales
Tennessee
Canada
New York
Victoria
Connecticut
New Zealand
Virginia
Delaware
Nova Scotia
Washington
England
Oregon
West. Australia
Ireland
Philippines
Kentucky
Wisconsin
Quebec
wy~ming
Massachusetts
Rhode Island
Manitoba
South Carolina by disp.. · frolfl Grand Master
Request for Exclusive Jurisdiction
·7. Your committee to whom was referred the petitions · of
Maricopa Lodge No. 434 and Temblor Lodge No. 477 to grant each
of ' said Lodges exclusive jurisdiction over territory adjacent to and
surrounding such Lodges, have had the same under consideration and:
respectfully repott as. follows:
Section 92a of the Constitution provlde-s · that· notice of the· resn-··
lution and petition for such privilege shall be given to all ·Looges·'
whose jurisdiction will be affected by ·such legislation at least thirty·
days' prior to' the coinmenc'e ment of the next: annual coriimunication ·
of 1 Gra n·d Lodge. ·
. t ,
..·:·• ; •:
. It is further provided that the resol~tl<fo ·shall corifain a 1"'I>redsc1
statement of the bounda.ries of "the propos~d termory_;•.· · · ~ ... ·; : . ·. '

action at this time, your committee recommends that the consideration:of. both petitions be deferred until the next annual comqiµll~c.;ttion
of this' Grand Lodge:·
'· · ·
· '·
In this connection we desire to say that in the judgment of .your
·committee, the provision of our law, with respect to exclusive . juris'diction, should be invoked only in cases of evident and imperative
jlee.c:ssity.
i · . We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend i~s
adoption: ·
R esolved, that consideration of the petitions of Maricopa and
Temblor Lodges lie deferred to· the next annual communication.

Adopted.
Compilation of Laws Cited in Digest
, .8: ,. The ·Grand Master, in his Annual Message, reports that
R.'.W.".John Stewart Ross has volunteered to compile the laws
cited in ou~ Digest so that our decisions would be accessible to all
officers in the jurisdictio"n. We concur iri the remarks of the Grand
Master relative to this matter, and recommend that the offer of
Brother • Ross be accepted, and that the Committee on Finance be
requested ·to appropriate sufficient funds for the compilation and
printi(lg of the same.
FRANK M. ANGELOTTI,
DANA R. WELLER,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
JOHN D. MURPHEY,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
•

I

l

'

GE,ORGE' L. ]ONES,

Committee.

Report !ldopted.

of

:. While In all other" respei:t'!i the. petitiOn and' resoluticin ' e~~h of
such Lodges 'c:oniplies with the requirements of our l~w;' 'in th~· i::i.s~'
of Maricopa Lodge the description ls, in the juagt\teh.t of ~you:r<ilom­
mittee, fatally defective. No defifiite. s:tartirfg point is given and some
oL the calls .a~e imp~ible of definite location. •
.
· For. this reason your·: committee is 1·of the opinion.that no ·rcifu:f,
cart 'be had at this session Of Grand Lodge. .-As the· deteriniaatton. .Qf
the. jurisdictions . of the resi:iective ·Lodges located , in th~ Jer.~\tory
under consideration is so closely interrelated, we feel that it W.O!Jl~L b,e.
u11w~se !o pa,ss .UI?.Ot:l one of th.CO .Petitions . in. th_e ;i.bsenc:e of ,. th.e. .9.ther,
and in view of the fact that there. ~9.e~ ~fl~, ~p:p~a(f~om.. tl:i~ .r.~p~e~c;n~
tations made t.o your committee any ·real' requirem~nt for immediate'

Earl Warren, from the special committee to which had

been referred a certain ano'nymous circular letter, mailed
throughout the jurisdiction in the fall of 1929, requested
that !tile ..committee be .given unti~ the next annual communication in w hich to make a report. The request was
granted.

303

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS

San Jose ............................ No. 10....John A. Fair, Jr. Warden.................. 3.48
John H. McGehee, Past Master........ 6.48
C. H. Wheeler, Past Master
Alex ¥.'. Hess, Sr., Past Master

302

To the M.".W." .Grand Lodge pf Ca.lifornia:

Your Committee on Credentials begs to report that fourteen
hundred and sixty representatives to Grand Lodge have presented
their credentials and same have been certified as members in good
standing of Grand Lodge and entitled to participate in all its deliberations.
CHARLES G. JoH NSON, Chairman.

Report adopted.
Mileage Allowed
Representatfre

California .......................... No. L .George I. Williams, Jr., Master
Jared M. Cody, Sr. Warden
Ernest F. Marwedel, Jr. Warden
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Wm. C. Hassler, Past Master and
Grand Orator
F. V. Keesling, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
T. Carmany, Past Master
Western Star.................... No. 2.... Albert V. Fondahn, Master................$24.42
Tel\.ama............................... No. 3.... Paul Ehorn, Master.............................. 6.48
Edw. Henry Crussell, Sr. Warden
Charles L. Pratt, Jr. Warden
Theodore J. Milliken, Past Master
A. Schwartz, Past .Master
Chas.
.
Benieia:......:..... ~ ........:......... No. 5.... Donald Mathewson, Master.............. 2.40
William Green, Sr. Warden
Tuoltirnnc :~ .... :...~................ No. 8 .... B. C.

Bullock, Past Master and
Representative and Inspector........ 13.92

Corinthian........................... No. 9....Durward A. Pelton, Master.............. 9.00
Arthur W. Gluckman, Past Master
Sol Lewek , Past Master

Yount... .............:................ No. 12....Thotnas H. Townsend, Master .......... 3.00
Percy S. King, Past Master
F. W. Williams, Past Master
George W. Yates, Past Master
l\evada.......................:...... No. 13.... Elmer P. Gleason, Master................ 20.64
Wm. E. Meservey, Past Master
Temple.............................. No. 14.... Alfrcd J. Rubke, Master.................... 3.60
J ohan ·w. Karlsen, Jr. Warden
Robert C. Bancroft, Past Master
H. D. Burmeister, Past Master
E11reka...:...........................No. 16.... Vernon G. McCann, Sr. Warden.... 9.12
La Parfaite Union .......... No. 17....Rene M. Vidalie, Master
Paul Amie!, Jr. Warden
Adolphe Huguenin, Past Master
and Inspector
A. L. Auradou, Past Master
Henry Mottet, Past Master
Miguel E. Diebold, Past Master
Chas. H. Viguie, Past Master
Mountain Shade............. No. 18. ...Marion F. Lusk, Sr. Warden............ 31.00
San Joaquin ..................... No. 19.... John E. Warman, Master.................. 6.12
Perry Harris, Sr. Warden
Washingt<>n...................... No. 20.... Harold S. Parker, Master.................. 6.48
John J. Haken, Sr. Warden
Clyde R. Palmer, Jr. Warden
William J. Sitton, Past Master........ 6.48
Walter L. Doesch, Past Master
Norman C. Gregory, Past Master
Hawaiian..........................No. 21....Gordon C. Ross, Sr. Warden ............ 250.00

.: ;P,D,QCEE:PIN(}S 9F TEE;

,.

<kri<lental... ...................... No. 22....Luther E. Long, Master
'
Ar,chjbald J.-.Cloud, Sr. Warden ..
.· ·
' •· Ha.r~id {\.. C. ~iitchell, Jr. Warde~
·~...
i,
'•"
. ' · Rµdolph Mohr, Jr.; Past Master and
Inspector
F. W. Fish, Past Master
Wm. I;'enn Bumphreys, Past
I,, ,
\•
'·'· '
Ma,ster
,,
S. H; Clawson, Past Master
'
Ralph ,.JC. MarshaJI, Past Master
John R. Hermann, Past Master
Harold A. C. Mitchell, Past Maste~ .

San Diego ... ~ ...... ;l;.: ....:.:•.. No. 35: ... Edward: A. J ohn5on, Master.............. 54.64
Tit :.
George C, Wilken, Sr. Warden
Joseph L. Shell, Jr. Warden
James B. McLees, Past Master and
Insl?ector ,.. ,................................,......;. 55.64.
Rainsford W. Belding, Past Master
Jesse W. Bailey, Past Master
,··
11
Claude H. Morrison, Past Master ·
and Grand Standard Bearer.......... 55.64
!
I
• r
_M artin Ortlieb, P~st Master

~.

.

;

i'·

~

Howard ............................. No. 37 .... Louis L . Wacker, Sr. Warden .......... 34.70

:

Madison ..................:.. :.:...:.No. 23 .....Ward A. Johnson, Master ................ 20.28
Thomas · M. Harris, Past Master ·
.and Inspector .................................... 20.64
George Louis Jones, Past Grand
Master and Past Master ................ 20.64

1. ·

Maripos~.c,... :.........:......... No. 24 ....George

Warren Fellows, Master .... 28.28
Frederick A. Mack, Sr. Warden
·Fred C. Alexander, Jr. Warden
'James .P. McElligott, Past Master

·

Georgetown ....... :;. .. ,..... :... No. 25,. ... Dwig!i.'t E. Douglass, Master ...... -._,,.,, 15.76

'·•

,:r,rinity ................ ,...:._.: .....,.~_o. 27....Ge_orge E. Conner, Master .. ,.,,........... 35.42
1

...

'

'.

; '.

1 ••

.

•

,;.~ I [

Golden Gate ............::,, .• ,'::.N' °.· :30 ....~ichol<\s ·F. Munson, Master
·
LeOn Wells Carrau, Sr. Warden
Ficledck S. Nobmann, Jr. War:~.~r;i; , .h !
. ~- ,;. ~j'
Cbas. .T: White, Past Master
·
· Edward C. C. Wellesley, Past
Mf!ster
J.-,.
A.· F. Heuer, Past Master
'r.
Fred ]. Schultz, Past Master

,GqW .. Hill .... ;··;;:;; ;:'1: .. ·· i;~N9;. 3?,.... Ba:r.ney G. Barry, Master .....:··········'.''·

~:5~

OphiL .............. .-................ No. 33,... Rolland W. Parker, Master .............. 18.46

.

•'

"

·,

Santa Cruz ...................... No. 38 .... Roy Mayfield, Master ..................... ,., 8.52
,\, . ,
"
Vat' c.' Waterma~, Sr. Warderi
~ .'!. (
'' · · . : '
Willitt Ware, Past Master
C. D. ·Hinkle, Past Master
I

: ,v

•

~

•

Sacramento ..,,..,.;..:... ,.~,..... N 0:40.... Royal B. Giffen, Master...................... 6.48
.George· J.' Calder, Past Master
•

' , ,

.L

'

'

Martinez ........:.'.';'.~.'..'.~ .'..... '..~·No.' 41...,George L 1 Berry, Master....................
· d ·( · ·
·
',
•· ·
Hugh P . . Roberts, Sr. Warden
· '
;
Lo~is Mittelman, Jr. Warden

2.52

Los· Angeles ....~ ..:...:.,.': ... :'.No, :42 ....AbrahaJYI ! J. :Ei~rley, Master ................ 43.08
,,,.

El Dorad6.::..:.:.:....::.'.'... :..:.No; 26.. ..Frank K. Ramberg, Master ................ 11.76
. Howard M. Lumsden, Sr. Warden
George H. Volz, Jr. Warden.
C. 1-J.- Hickman, Past Master
George C. Rolleri, Past ¥a~ter
• '

305

GRAND' :LQDGE OF CALIFORNIA

I ~r

· · ·

• '

·

\i.I • :

:~~I; ,:.i:

·

•'

'.', '

'

•

.

Hyman, Leon Harris, Sr. Warden
Sipjl~y.' I\. Lehman, Past Master
ri
·· ~~-~ ,-~ spector .................................... 43.08

·• •j;'\

·.. ~r::~ .• ;\;:;:\. '.;,:.,:::.

Hiram................ .............. No. 43 .. :.Ch:ar'les; E. Green, Master .................. 11.16

('l).i'~ . w;.~ . :'.'.' .·::. . ,;!::;fl' ,,,. ~la?.4:.E~rl 9sbome, Sr. Was.de~ .. ·• ,.. ·i·
Mount Mof-.iah.:.. :...; ;.,::·,~ .. ,Ncii44....1'hoJ?lb ·w. Clancy, Master
1•11.1~r
..... ·- ·. .. .... . ...
·:·llil)l:JUOhd N. Murphy, Sr. Warden
;:.;~ ·>~!. i .;11'1 _;1.,-,.:)\c: f'.: .<·Edtnond' P. Bergerot, Jr. Warden
\)\·!
. ..-,.~;:,;:i'! •''. 1 >~ :YheGdore Frolich, Past Master
, .. , " De,n B. RichHds, .Past Master
1
;.;_ \ ~
, •. ,.:. ~ (
Johii"C'h~rles Jens, Past Master ·
·:-:~<:
~ . ,. .•
: ' . :·::·w. E. :-,1~.l\derson, Past Mast~r ·,(.41 ·.1.
.'i: :~ :.; ·
,. . ·"' • . Jcihn'. ,f / Schroth, Past Master
. -~ ..-: •: 1·'
:Roy"i'\, .-.Pratt, Past Master
· •.1<·1··~ : ;1'.'
R.' N:·.:Murphey, Past Master
•• , , .. .1

. .. i

,

•

T

·~ ~.

Crescent... ......................... No:·4s .. :.George H. Kerr, Master .................... 48.5(')
.' i.r..
::.;: 1.~ .. :,_ .-·~.: :1; .:,:: :: Oi:r.i.rt.:Dh'i:lley; Past Master
;·~··•·:
' ·~

,.

·'

•,

.. .: .. ..·
~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

306 -

T~-·-···-·-···--··--··-·No. 46....Kenneth Dreisbach, Maitei:................

GRAND LODGE vF C.ALlPORNIA

7.36

J10seph E; Regan, Sr. Warden

Thomas Flint, Past Grand Master
and Past Master.............................. 6.60
Forbestown....... ~....,.·........:No;·so....J.

A. Vaughan, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 16.80

lllinoiStown...................... No. SL.Francis- E. West, Master.................... 10.92
Suisun..............- •............•.No. 55 ....Walter Minor Hunter, Sr. Warden 3.60
John H. Murray, Past Master
Volcano............................. No. 56....0liver Monroe Kimbati", Maste~ ...... 15.12
Sa;,_ta Rosa.·-····-·····-·······No, 57 ~.. Robect Wm. Zeller, M~~ter ................ . 3.96
Clarenee Edw. Erickson, Sr.
Warden
Ira Franklin Brown, Jr. Warden
James T. Mailer, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.96
Harry T. Kyle, Past Master
Chas. D. Barnett, Past Master
Chris-Jacobs, Past Master

Union.........................".-.. ~.No. 58...,Victor A. Robinson, Master......,......, 6:48
.

John Sturgis McNaughton, Sr.
Warden
J.,F.· Morgan, Past Master
Thomas J. Baker, Grand Lecturer
and Past Master

Gravel Range .................. No. 59....Julius Elisha Pauly, Jr. Warden...... 19.00
F. J. JOubert, Pa.st Master and
Inspector ............................................ 19.00
William Bull Meek, Past Master
and Grand Bible Bearer.................. 19.00
Plumas.........~ .................... No. 60....Leonard H. Thayer, Master.............. 27.34
Live Oak. ....;.......... ;.......... No; 61.. .. Frank G. K irner, Master
Elijah H. Steele, Jr. Warden
tee S. Griswold, Past Master
A. B. Webster, Past Grand Master
and Past Master
Natoma ............................. No. 64.... William M. Ramsey, Jr., Master.... 8.16
Richard H . Borsberry, Sr. Warden

301

Amador..................·......,..•.No. 65....Stephen Corpo.reich, Ma8tcr.............. 11.62
Albert S. Llwrence, Jr. W arden
Robert Kerr, Past Master
Forest... .............................. No. 66....John H. Colman, Master.................... 25?0
H . R. McDougall, Past Master
Morning Star .....--......... No. 68.... Chas. S. Rose, Master.. .......................... 6.12
Ira E. Smith, Sr. Warden
John L. Mullally, Jr. Warden
Orrm Staples Henderson, Past
Master and Past Grand Master
Enterprise......................... No. 70....J ohn F rank Gamsby, Master.............. 8.76
Desmond A. Winship, Sr. W arden
H. D. Moncur, Past Master
Lou K. Newfield, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 9.00
Bear Mountam................ 1'."o. 76.... Sydney A. Whiteside, Past Master
and Master........................................ 15.96
Calaveras ..........................No. 78....Walter H. Ralph, Jr. Warden .......... 11.12

"

Hlimboldt....................... .. No. 79 ...J;wen Jos. Stewart, Master .............. 29.40
James T . Fraser, Past Master and
Inspector ...............- ..............._ ...... 29.40
Truston R. Dinsmore, Past Master
Hugh. B. Stewart, Past Master

Itm~...............~ ..................:.No. 80....0laf Nelson, Past Master and

Representative ............._ ...._........~ .. 9.12

Yolo .....................:.... - .....~No. SL.Cha~ Ernest Patton, Sr. Warden.... 6.60
Vcsper........... ,...................No. 84.... Clarence R. Taylor, Master .............. 20.78
Na vat... .... ::..................:.. _.No. 87.... David' L. Potter, Master.......;............ Z.40
Paul L. Wurdig, S r. Warden
Albin R. Setterquist, Jr. Warden
Frederick Graff, Past Master
James ·B itcon, Past Master
Mark Theodore Andrews, Past
Master
J oseph Charles Harrison, Past
Master
James Ramsey, Past Master
Hose's Bar ........................No. 89.... Asa D. Fippin, Sr. Warden ................ 12.00

•, '. ·1 •. RROCEEDlNGS . OF ·THF

308

3Q9

,, •

North Star......":...,;.:c... _:No. 91....Archie R: Kindig, Sr, Warden.....,..., 37.70
St. Heleriit:...'..'..'.........._
:.:No. 93....J. H. · Steres, Past Master and
' ·· ·
. . · · Representative .................................. 4.80

Alamo.....................,...;..,..<N o, 124.... Charles: Gusta ye Eai~st, Master.-..J{-J ; .3.84
.. Jo5eph;.Ghilds Burr, Sr. Warden
Allan .McPhee, Jr. Warden
J oseph C. Burr, Past Master

He~ry Clay..1.,.:.::..... ,.:..:,,.. N~- 9{...John A. Phipps, Past Master and

Sotoyome':'.::.::.'.:':.. :.:::.:~ .. No. 123:..:Wm. Alfred McCutchan, Master....
George T. Hansen, Past Master

Hcirnitos ...........::..:;·:··-'·:~... N_o. 9~·-·:GeQ~~e. L. Kiug, Past Master ~nd
·Repr,esentative .................................. 20.18

Table Mountain'..'. .... ::... No. 124....W alter G. Odn~al, Sr. Warden ........ 10.80

' ·" " · ·" • ·

Representative .................................. 11.62

·

Yosemite..:..:;:!. ...:;......:.:.. :.Nci. 99;... Walter J! Chenoweth, Sr. Warden .. 10.08
Earl R. Ewing, Jr. Warden
Roy E. Lantz, Past Master and
.,
. ·_I1-Ispe~tor ............................................' 10.0S
.,
.,
True W., Fowler, Past Master
Clay...'..:-....:::.:.. ,;..:.'....'. ....'.N o..:·101..:.Enoch B. Quinn, Master .................... 12.00
, . .'::

. .. .

. . . .

...

.· '

. .

:

-

'

Oroville...........................No. 103.... '.Elmer L. Swanson, Sr. Warden ...... .. 10.80
Albert E: Boynton, Past Grand.
...
_. Masrer and Past Master
'·
Chas.. Q. Hamilton, Past Master
.. Inspector ...................................
· . 1'0.·s·o
:' l
and

L~lii11~ton........::;..,...".:: .... Nh.' i64.... Jo.hn 'We~ver, Master ...................::.:... · 44.16
~, • ~- ' •

' •

"\ ; '

' '

~ °'t

'

.

'

.

I•

:A-r cata...., .................."".'"No. 106..:.,Josi:ph E. Graham, Sr. Warden...... 30.00

4.92

iaFayette:.:.:::'..'. ............ No. 126.... Asa Leandrew Hutton, Master.......... r4A4
",
"'
William C. Heatley, Sr. Warden
Ernest A. Feaks, Past Master
l lerma~11~: ... ,...,_. .....'. .. :.....:.N9_. 127.... P~ui ~- Schubert, Master
· ·
·
Richard R. Dachner, Sr. Warden
Emil A. Neumarkel, Past Master
Louis · Muller, Past Master and
Inspector
Willie F. Baat, Past Master
Visalia ......:;.d.·.,...:'. .......... No. 128.... E. F. Lambert, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 23.68
NicolauL.:..:::................ \(o_. 129.... Russell 'B. Catlett, Sr. Warden.......... 9.00
\lfoodbridge .........,,...... '",1'f o. 131....John H. Fairchilds, Master..............._. 6.72
Sincerity.....!:::... :.L .. :'::;:..No. 132.... Walter Jos. Ha~I, J_r. Warden.......... 26.88

P~jar~~~'..~::.•~\:~;;.~·.:.;.:'.~},r/?,: l1P.-~Eilw~~4 .James Purtill, Master.......... 7.08
Chico.............,.,:
....::::::···•·:·lifl,. 111.:... ~~im, J', Troxel, Sr. ~Warden
.......... _1~
_:z .i_.4
_._
·.t..\ ... . ... ... . ...,. ,, .t-,h:.... ..
·

Vacaville..:...........:..:.....•.No. 134.. :.Robert Grady Allen, Master............ 4.80
· ·'· · · ·
Sterling P. Dobbins, Jr., Sr. Warden
J ames R. McCrory, Jr. Warden
F"rank H : Clark, Past Master

SuihmiL...........................NmU2;..d!d\\tllrd M. Jasper, Representative .. 11.52

Valley..:.. :::.:......::...:.'.....'. .No. 135.... Edward W. Boroff, Master................ 6.12

~n ...... :-;"'.:"J.{~~:..•::::...... Ne;:' i 13.i::Chestef Ani05 G'ossett, Master:.......

Pacific.........:...':~.. ;;,........ :.~o. 136;...Mark Altman, Master
'
Harold ft Jacobs, Jr. Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
· '
Ernest W. Liebert. Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Thomas Anderson, Past Master .and
Inspector
.'
Ha'r ry K. Wolff, Past Master
Geo: H . Raymond, Past . Master
William Fanta, Past Master
Harvey H. Hoxie, Past Master
Frederick L. Hansen, Past Master
Eugene Elkus, Past Master
Hugo Hertz, Past Master

.. l ,. , ,. • r ' "

• .· •,

,

• • • ~ .~, ., ,

,

,• \

· . 'o :"

•

• • 9'

;.4\ f .".

.

"

.

. . . . • ,.

"'

.· Sidney
B. Force,
Past Master
. : ·• . ·'
.,·~

'·.~ -~ f'i • • • ~· , \ '.: ~..

t

•

'

•

•

•

..

.

i.08
'J.':i. ·1

<;p~cord...............:~-.'-~:·::·:No~}l?,,.:v.\iRia~. H . .Qil~ert, Sr. Warden ....... .6.:48
..

..

. ... ,.

·'

.............. .

• . ... •

... •

\ ...... , " ' • •

'

'

.

~

7

.

C!inton........ ;,~;:.. ;,,_·,~!. ...l:}fo, l19;'.-.".Marshatf L. Gill, Jr. Warden ............ 26.42
!;·.·.::..·13 ..::/

: t' ~ .>· :.: ~"··· ·:·:: ~> /' ··. ·~·.. :.·

Fidelity........'..1~,)1-;·•·- 1 ,, "t;! o_J_20: ... Herb_~~t ·;Blumenthal, Master
·,::.' •' · ,, .··:
. Leo1t. M-1Lowenthal, Sr. Warden
.• .' ·1
, .. ., .. ....,.AUyns:s: Wexel, Jr. Warden
·· PiuliiP Jacobovics. Past Master
r.1·
.. ,
.. ,-. " Juliu·s· ·Gabriel, Past Master
Ch,~·{ Schlessinger, Past Master
('

.. .
~

~ ... f

'

'

.

310

' PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CrocketL ....................... No. 139.... Ivores R. Dains, Master
Harold A. Dunlap, Sr. Warden
Wm. A. H. Fleisher, Jr. Warden
B. M. Robinson, Past Master
George E. Gaevert, Past Master
J. P. Court, Past Master
P. Jorgensen, Past Master
Grafton ......................... ,.. No. 141....William Jos. Duffy, Jr., Master...... 6.96
Franklin .......................... No. 143 .... Ray E. Burdg, Master........................ 6.40
Oriental... ...,... .................. No. 144.... Graham B. Pearson, Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Sr. Warden ·
Volney Stamps, Jr. Warden
Wm. S. Wells, Past Master
Walter · Leonard, Past Master and
Inspector
Wm. E. Conner, Past Master
Richard Quedens, Past Master
Eugene H. Hurst, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
George B. Lake, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Owen L. Gibson, Past Master
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master
Arno's V. Mollart, Past Master
John Tonningsen, Past Master
Frank C. Martin, . Past Master
Vitruvius .........................No. 145.... Jules Respeleux, Master ...................... ·4.82
Wm. James Somers, Sr. Warden
R L'. Smith, Past Master
Abell... ............................. No. 146... ,Elmer M. Hopper, Master .................. 8.28
J. W. Kingren, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 8.28
Eel River ..: .................... No. 147.... Walter .G. Orman, Master .................. 30.00
Lyle P. Connick, Sr. Warden
Lassen ................. ,.............No, 149 .. ..Arthm:- A. Lund, Master.. .................. 32.12
Arthur Woodward, Sr. Warden
J. B. Spalding, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 32.12
F. T. Holmes, Past Master

ORA.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

311

Molino ............................. No. 150.... Nicholas C. Hesse, Sr. Warden ........ 19.94
Woodland ....................... No. 156.... Eugene C. Stowe, Jr, Warden.......... 6.24
Keystone ......................... No. 161.. ..C. C. Hansen, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 8.28
Harmony........................No. 164.... Ernest 1\1. Innes, Master .................... 36.38
Excelsior ...........:............ No. 166.... Warren G. Geldert, Master
Ralph G. Curtis, Jr. Warden
James W. Crosby, Past Master
Rod G. Guyett, Past Master and
Inspector
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Alameda ... ."..................... No. 167.... F. B. Hartman, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 2.40
Albert Norris, Past Master
Redwood City ............... No. 168.... Gilman Berlin Merrill, Sr. Warden
Harold E. Simpton, Jr. Warden
L. A. Heiner, Past Master

1.92

Mission ........................... >Jo. 169.... William Griffith, Master
John C. Strickler, Jr. Warden
Robert E. Allan, Past Master
George A. Hansen, Past Master
Lew E. Wallace, Past Master
Elk Grove ...................... No. 173 ....Keith F. Douglas, Master................ 7.80
Robert H. P. Cornelius, Past Master
Stanley R. Gage, Past Master
Drytown ......................... No. 174.... John J. Myers, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 10.12
Antioch ............................ No. 175.... Victor M. Parachini, Sr. Warden.... 3.96
Leland F. Hulbert, Jr. Warden
Phoenix ...........................No.-178 .... John S. Russell, Master ...................... 47.28
Leo Chas. Dunmeyer, Sr. Warden
J. W. Curtis, Past Master
Mendocino ...................... No. 179.... George A. Cummings, Jr. Warden 26.38
Petaluma .........................No. 180.... Daniel J. Jamieson, Sr. Warden......
Arthur E. Owen, Past Master

2.88

GRAN:O LODGE 01"·.C~l,.IFORNIA

312
RuHian Riv~r:;,.::;: ... '.'.::;__ No:·1:8L.'.Atfred F. Edksert, Master." ........ ,,.:,1• >4:56
Arbuckle ...• 1:~::•.:L .. :...•. 1.. Nb: lBL .. Gilbert Gould .Vartn, Jr. Warden:::. ~t-•·B:zs
Clear LakeL .. :J.:.~,:.: ... ~.No. 183,,.•.Paul St:,,John, Master .................. w~.1 h1:90
t:•. l'J
~ · ·'•'-':Clarence L. Bonham, Past Master

3:13

Mountain View . ,.• ,.. tt •.:•• Nq. 194.... Robert ,S.. Knight, Master ...... ,.,, ..·..,,.. 2.64:
, . ...
... .
, ,·, .Walter ,Leuth Erichsen, Sr. Warden

~uckeye:: ..:............ :..... ,.. ::No, 195../Robe~f .B. Bigelow, Jr. Warden...... 6.00
· · '·

·

·'

Arthtir F. Manyan, Past Master

·Sierra Va1ley ....... i:~;.;,•,LN 0:184.... Gifford ·.D. Webber, Sr. Warde1i:.::.. :• 34.98

Sa11; Simeon............. ,......N~. 196.... Frank P. Will, Master ................. ,.•. ,.,.29,.00
·· ·
°Nigel. keep, Sr. Warden
·
·
, · ·

Claiborne ......... :~.::c-.: ..'.... No.185 .... DeWitt Dunbar, Master ...................... 26:08
Clarertce W. Nicks, Past Master

Wilmington .. !:.·.. :..'......... .N"o. 198.... William Henry Barker, Master ...... 44.52
1
John·Bertj. Chadwick, Sr. Warden

,•

" ~·

. ' ,,
~ '

, ' ., ;'.

;

'

., ,, '

.

·.and· Inspector .................................... 26.38

Evening St.ar.·.~ .. ::.......... !'\o. 186 .... Al~x~nder Parker, Representative
." .and }>ast Master ................................ 33.86
Keith .................. ::;.::.:':.'.:?. No:' 187..'.. Paul Robert Colson, Master.............. 5.64
Elmer J. Chesebro, Past Master·" . ,,,
'Oakland...........•.. :........... N <i. 188::.. Geotge" C. Perkins, Master
Nelson, Past Master and
. Inspector .
,
, , ., Rqhert .M. Ford, Past Master
Ch~s .. N. Walter, Past Master
\vm. I. Macdonald, Past Master
Francis A. Braun, Past Master
:Thomas ii. Miller, Past Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Master
: and Senior Grand Warden

s:

Ma~in...,. .... ,.... :·····~:.'.. ::...,:~o. :ipt. .. 4ro;:~P~yton, Master ................. .':....... l.OS
George .T. Arnold, Sr. Warden
H~rry' F. Meilink, Jr. Warden
···Joseph Block, Past Master
: ••,: -Cha~. T. Smith, Past Master
F, M. Ange1lotti, Past Master an<l

. ' . Pas:t Grand Master

'

Santa Batl1arh ... :.:: ..... :: Nb: 192.... Glen S." A11en, Master .......................... 34.02
Virgil" O. Wayman, Sr. Warden
• !'. •. 1.
'Ris:hard L. ;Hammer, Past Mast~r. ,·" . '.
George W. Tomlinson, Past Master'

\?3 ....Sumher ,J. bamo~, Master .......... :.'.... 3i :?O
R. R. Williams, Past Master
John E. Gries, Past Master

'J

Confidence!......'. .. :.... '. ..... :~0:203 .... Walter C. Buttle, Representative
' · ·:·
'
·
~nd Past Master .............................. ..
Chas, Charles, Past Master

6.80

Salinas .....................~·:·:·· No. 204.... William J. B. Terrill, Master.......... . 8.28
1
-. '''·' '
.
Elba E. Hitchcock, Sr. Warden
'
1
·
~alter M. Anderson, Past Master

Georg'e F. Rodden, Past Master
·, and Past Grand Master

Ferndale.:.::: .. ~.:,.. ,.,... ;.,; .. :N ?·

' ,!,

Truckee ................... ,....... N o. 200 .... Roy Allen Feathers, Master ............ 23.16
Eric G. Gram, Jr. Warden , ..
Pentalpha ...... L:·.it.c1,.c.: ....No. '202.... lawrente C. Ke1ley, Master .............. 43.08
I'. '
Alfred M. McLaren, Sr. Warden
,;·
.•
Theodore T, Spurgeon, Jr. Warden
1 • ,, :
James B. Gist, Past Master
·, i::: .1~ :.Chas. Wooster Gist, Past Master
..
Jack Pascha11, Past Mas~e.r
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Past Master
: ~ '
and. Past Grand Master .................. 43.08
! '

Korthern Light ..'..": .. ~ .... :Nd: 190::.John f. 'Thatcher, Sr. Warden ........ 22.92
'

Hartley .... ~.... ,......,., ..... r., ... No. 199.... Guid<? 0. deGhetoldi, Sr. Warden .. 12.32
John D. Monroe, Past Master and
Inspector ., ......... ,...........................,.... ~2.32
A. M;· Reynolds, Past Master

Olivet ............. ::i ... L"····'.:No. 205 ... '.Lee Herbet Newkirk, Master ........... . 12.96
Robert Orland Barnes, Sr. Warden
Oscar ,Chas. Bley,Jr. Warden
Stanislaus ... 1::.'. •• : ••••• : •••• :_:No. 206: ... Thi.Jmas V. Handley, Sr. Warden....

7.44

Anaheim ..... ~ .....~:.,,, ...:... i.,N o.. 207., .. Wi11iam .D. Kohlenberger, Master .... 45.00
H4go Schultz, Sr. Warden
I"
Rio Vista.,,,,,,,:···cc·:·::·; :,··:~ 0 , .;!08... :f'. .. ·G. Jacobs, ;I~epresentative and . ""'· , ...'.;
, ,
.
Pasb Master........................................ 4.40

3'14'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ,

King Davids..................No. 209.... Nathan' S. Lewin, Master.................. 24.00
W. D. Adriance, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 24.00
. John Whicher, Past Master and
Grand Secretary

Fri~dship.......................No. 210. ...John F. Knight, Master.. ................:... 3'.48
Clayton St. John Hale, Sr. Warden
Claude C. Clark, Jr. Warden
Al~rt T. Hollingsworth, Past
Master
T. M. Wright, Past Master and
Inspector
San Benitci....................~.No. 21-1 .... Eberle Chas. Sheldon, Master............ 6.60
R. W. O'Bannon, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 6.60

GRAND 'LODGE o ·F CALIFORNIA

315

Si)eranza Itatiana..........No. 219....John B. Fracchia, Master
Antonio ·B. Torelli, Sr. Warden
Antonio Cogliandro, Past Master
E. V. Lonigo, Past Master
John M. Icardo, Past Master and
Inspector
G. B. Cordano, Past Master
Giovanni Scalmanini, Past Master
Downey........... :...............No. 220.... Chas. M. Van Dusen, Master............ 43.92
R. B. Harris, Past Master
Inyo.................................No. 221....Luther L. Stewart, Sr. Warden........ 55.86
Alex C. Krater, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 55.86
~oseville ......................... No. 222 .... Albert P. Clark, Master......................

7.80

So. San Francisco........No. 212.... 0liver 0. Poquet, Master
Chas. F. Hensel, Sr. Warden
Henry A. Kruger, Jr. Warden
Cyrus Henry Kramer, Past Master
George A. Lastein, Past Master
W. G. B. Warner, Past Master

Bakersfield......................No. 224.... Grover M. Shackelford, Sr. Warden 29.34
Andrew H. Walker, Jr. Warden
Henry Eissler, Past Master.............. 29.34
J. R. Gist, Past Master
Arthur S. Crites, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 29.34

San Beu11aventura ........No. 214....Fred G. Marker, Master.................... 37.56
Thomas C. Wallace, Sr. Warden
Glenn D. Corey, Jr. Warden
Michael L. Brazil, Past Master
J . M. Argabrite, Past Master.......... 37.56
David J. Reese, Past Grand Master
and Past Master................................ 37.56

Brooklyn .........._.,.:........... No, 225 ....John Pow, Master
John H. Boetel, Sr. Warden
Olas. L. Hemphill, J r. Warden
Jrving Magnes, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master

Oak Grove ......................No. 215 .... George R. Hansen, Master
George Graham, Jr. Warden
F. G. Thornton, Past Master
M. C. Godfrey, Past Master
Will Crocket, Past Master
Doric....................,.......... .No. 216.... Harold N. Larsen, Master
Adler M. Larsen, Sr. Warden
Jacob H. Hoffman, Jr. Warden
Simon Myerson, Past Master
Monterey ........................ No. 217.... 0las. A. Watson, Sr. Warden.......... 8.88
Mos<1,ic............. :...............No. 218.... T . F. Brady, Representative and
Past Master...................................... 3.48
M. J. Clark, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.48

San Mateo......................No. 226.... G.eorge E. Riddle, ·Master..................

1.32

Athc::ns ..........................._No. 228.... George Edw. Binks, Sr. Warden...... 5.52
Solano..............................N1'. 229....Russell C. Jones, Master.................... 2.46
Howard M. Towle, Sr. Warden
John F. Walters, Past Master
Alvord B. Cushing, Past Master
Walter S. Thomas, Past Master
Frank A. Hensley, Past Master
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
Edwin N. Sanders, Past Master
Howard Gee, Past Master
Chester P. Berner. Past Master
Edward F. De La Mater, Past
Master

1 · ' PROCEEDI;NG.S QF

ill_i6,

GRAND'!'LODGE bF d .AlU!FORNIA

THE. I

:Poinona .. ;;:::: .~11 ..'::.... :~.....No:.£46;J.. Wayn~ A. F ahington, Master.. " ... :!;· 49:60
Jq.mes Nish.et,. Sr. Warden
. ., r
·,.r. ·' Geor'g~ 1 :A. Gbodell, Jr. Warden
· •:m •
Georg.e, : C. Smithen, Past M;isti:Ii 1Ja~ ..,
and Inspector .................................... 45.60
Janesville ........................ No. 232 .. :.Hirarn '.J. Clark, Master .................... 36.12
Caiistog;i .................... ,... ~~No. 233.~ .. Marti11 Wolleson, Past Master and
' · i, ·
•·
· . '·
Representative .................................. 5.40

B~;~

. .... . . . ...'.:. '.::. . . 2i,lX ·2.3L.Mike J.'.'.:'cen~telll,' Master... ........:.. :'.· 3i.2o
''.

~· M

,,,

..

; ,

~--

'

,. .i ~

•

Hills. Ferr}'. .. .,......... ,. ... ,..,.N9. 2,?6,... Hanq N.. Anderson, Sr. Warden........ 7.92
'· . . .,. ...,, ':' . .. . . wm'. . Thompson, Past Master
.:·,... ··
'· • ~(;lnspector ................................ .... 7.92
'"

s:

yµadalupe ..................... .,~ q. 237,:.JW:m, ,.Ji·:1Lurias, ,P.ast Master anq .. , : :t
Past Crand Master .......................... 26.68
.~

...'' • '·~ .

.' f

' '

: • ' - :, '

- . ' ,'

- ' '-/

'.

• •

.... " . ... •

''

'

"l

Col~sa:'. .. :,.:'.:., ...• :, .. :.. ::.... No:24o: .. ~Ai;p1~(. ~. Scarlett, Master ........... :.. ~.
'' • J. j J,, , ¥

•

'

'

•,

' •

'

••

...

!i ~

9.1i

Sarita Ana ......:; ....·..Li.'. ...Nro; 241.::,ElmerSi Hinds, Master .................... .. 45.48
E. B. 'Trago, Past Master and
,f ,
· Insi)ecfor ............................................ 45.48
i . , L F. Harvey, Past Master

.

.. . .

'·

/.

·~i

Fresnq,.!'.,,, ...:····;·,,vr._. ... N,J;J.~ 247..•. Pe~~+.,f. Jensen, Master ...................... 20.04
·
·
Fre4 1.Pete Roullard, Jr. Warden
,.\lturas .................. ,.;"-f···No,. 248.... Leon T:-. Smith, Master ........... ,...... 1••• 44.24
·
·
Charles S. Baldwin, Past Master
' •1
" and Inspector .. •
.................................. 44.24
J.• : ' \V. E: Armstrong, Past Master

Adin ................. :.:-:;.:~1~ ... :'. ... :Nti. 250 .... George R. Walke·r, Representative , ,irr t
, ·
~nd Past Master ................................ 61.36
I•~,

,

•I!

Landmark. .. :;:., r: .:.,~

.(

~

, •

;'~

.{

.... : ~?" 2!;3....:5amµel I=· Well, Sr. Warden............ 7.32

Reading ............ :::).~:'..;/...N-b.'25'4.:.:Harry' A'. Michaud, Master................ 22.92
Hugh H. Shuffieton. Jr., Jr. Warden
G. C. DeFor.est, Past Master an!l ,
I~spector '. ............................. .........:.. 2Z:92
·r
'Clarence C. Dakiri, Past :Ma:ster ' '"
Earl Le.e Kelly,_ Past Master

Magnolia .........................No, 242.•... John A; Weissend, Master.. ............... . 34.0Z
,. :» .r
·Charles F. Lemmon, Sr. Warden
:i.
Franais R . Dolan, Jr. Warden
Fred :L. Johnston, Past Master and
, .Inspector ........................................... . 34.02
Edward L. Abbott, Past Master
''
Charl~s N. Allen, Past Master '·" '. "'

Welcome..... 1.:.·:L: ."-~:.: .... No. 255.... James L: McDowell, Master ............ 23.16

E~calyptu;.:~ .. ::: ..'.:......... No. ~43.::.Nelson E. Clerrie~s, Master ................'· t56

Evergreen ........ ::,:....... :... N o: 259 .... Herrick E. Schnur, Master............ :.. : 47.28
'· . \'
" James ·H. Jordan, Sr. Warden
· James Macdougall, Past Master
. O.akfoy ,K. Morton, Past Master
. .
and . Inspector .................................... 47.28

•,. r

"

·~ ··.

.

'

I ... f .

.· : , Wrti'. M. BocklTlan,'Sr. Warden
Geor.ge Dana Hovey, Jr. Warden
'

'

•

.

:..

,,, ·.

.° '

. Alcatraz ... ,.,.,·,:..:; ~::~ ...~. :"Nc(?.4f .. H,er.~Fli;i Hugo Pflug, Master
' ,,, " ' ... · .., · .. Arthur 'H enry Gawne, Sr. Warden
.. '. ''' ' -"
r; ·
Smillie, Jr. Warden
Ferdinand S. Smith, Past Master
An~tlony ,C. Childers, Past Master
Elbert .W. Garrity, Past Master
Carl C. 1fan, Past Master

Thomas

Laurel... .... :c.. J..':.. .•:.':,_:•. :,·,No. 245'.... ThbniaSI }. West, Master .................... 10.92

Lodi... ......... '. .':~: ........~ ....... No. i.56.'. .. wmia~ H. Croswhite, Sr. Warden..

.

.
Pen~hyri ... :: ...... .'..:........... No. 258 .... George s'anders~n. Master..................
"· ·
· '. ' ' '

..

6.48

8.52
" R.' F. Roddan1 Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 11.66

!'.'· ·'' S oIomons..............
" .
N
. o.
. ,.260·.... Ed·
. ·;. oh n C.on n , Ma ster
.. .wm
""mg
.·
· Wm.)<, Cullen, Past Master
Edw. E. ' Conn, Past Master
; ., .• ,
' : Randolph V. Whiting, Past Master
Wm. P. Filmer, Past Master and
Past Grand Master and
: :>
Gqmd ! Treasurer

.

/

•' ~

318

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Tµscan ................ ,........... .No. 261....James A. Robinson, Sr. Warden...... 9.12

Madera ............................ No. 280.... H. E. Bennett, Master ........................ 18.60
Andrew S. Honeycutt, Sr. Warden

Lompoc ..........................• No. 262.... James J. Gardner, Sr. Warden ........ 30.06
Hesperian....................... Na. 264 .... Ray L. Stewart, Sr. Warden ............ 26.68

319

Mt. Shasta ...................... No. 281....E. L. Story, Past Master
Lewis C. Story, Representative
and Past Master.............................. 22.08

Orland ............................. No. 265 .... Willard Clark, Past Master, Representative, and Grand Sword
·Bearer ................................................ 12.00

CallayomL. ..................... No. 282....George G. Hoberg, Master................ 9.90
Simeon Chapman, Past Master

North East .................... .No. 266....Gherald D. Wilson, Master ................ 53.20

South West .....................No. 283 .... Jay G. Hudgins, Master .................... 56.06

.Galt. ................................. No. 267 .... J. S. Orvis, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 6.48

San Miguel... ...................No. 285 .... Arthur B. Eddy, Master.................... 14.64

Durant ............................. No. 268 ....Niles Olsen Millar, Master
John Wm. Gregg, Sr. Warden
Wilfred J. Smith, Jr. Warden
W. H. Waste, Past Master•
Robert Greig, Past Master
Walter W. Bradley, Past Master
Olive Branch ................. No. 269 .... George W. Sayre, Master .................. 23.28
Snow Mountain .........- .No. 271....Charles A. Butler, Sr. Warden ........ 15.72
Pasadena .........................N o. 272 ....Fred C. Greeley, Master .................... 44.04
Frank M. Booth, Sr. Warden
Allen L. Dunnica, Jr. Warden
Anchor ............................ No. 273 .... 0rlando B. Soule, Sr. Warden ........ 43.92
Arroyo·-··········-----··--·----·-N o. 274.... Alan A. Erhart, Master .................... 24.90
Harry A. Truesdale, Past Master
Oakdale............................ No. 275 .... Hcnry Neubaumer, Master................ 8.52
Bernhard F. Hoisholt, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 8.52
Selma ............................... No. 277.... Peter A. Nielsen, Sr. Warden ........ 21.24
So. California ................ No. 278 .... Donald B. Worster, Master .............. 43.08
Donald R. Wilkinson, Sr. Warden
E. B. Spencer, Past Master
Dana R. Weller, Past Master and
Past Grand Master ........................ 43.08
1-lanford .............. ,...........No. 279 ....Carl H. Duffy, Master ........................ 22.56
Edgar F. Saylor, Sr. Warden
Burton Washburn, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 22.56

Paso Robles .................... No. 286.... Henry A. Vorrath, Jr. Warden ........ 15.36
Winnedumah .................. No. 287.... James L. McMurtrie, Sr. Warden .... 57.58
Maxwell... ....................... No. 288 .... Edward Flanagan, Sr. Warden........ 9.72
Elsinore ...........................No. 289.... Henry C. Scott, Master .................... 48.08
East Gate ....................... No. 290 .... Melvin H. Le Van, Master ................ 43.08
Clarence E. Reese, Sr: Warden
Santa Paula ....................No. 291....Clarence E. Kelsey, Master .............. 38.76
Warren L. King, Sr. Warden
Los Gatos ....................... No. 292....Henry Clark Noble, Sr. Warden.... 3.72
David N. Nerell, Jr. Warden
Orange Grove ............... No. 293 ....Wade H. Flippen, Master ................ 45.48
Sherman Gillogly, Sr. Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Master
Traver ............................. N o. 294.... Fred Schaffer, Master ........................ 21.60
Arthur Chas. Scheline, Sr. Warden
Mt. Jackson .................... No. 295 .... Walter G. Fonda, Past Master........ 5.40
Silver Gate.................... No. 296 .... Paul S. Hunt, Master........................ 55.64
Raymond P. Wakeman, Sr. Warden
Harvey R. Sylvester, Jr. Warden
Francis Mitchell, Past Master
Wilford E. Metz, Past Master
Dunsmuir ....................... No. 297.... Eldon Wilson Hamilton, Master ...... 28.98
Gus A. Hutaff, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 28.98

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

320

321

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Liberty............................ No. 299.... Jesse M. Brown, Master.................... 3.24
·Charles 0. Burrell, Sr. Warden
C. A. English, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 3.48
H . A. Myers, Past Master
H . W. Mcintyre; Past Master

T emescal.........................No. 314.... GeQrge Verdi Claytor, Master.. ...... 48.36
Frank S. Johnson, Sr. Warden
F. E. Snidecor, P;ist Master............ 48.36
orwalk ..........................No. 315....James A. Reese, :!vf<l.~~~r... ................. 44.28

Redlands .........................No. 300....Chas. E. Osbun, S r. Warden ............ 48.00

Sanger............... .'::.... ,......N o-_ ,31,6.... Edw_iµ Lewis Barr, Master................ 21. l2
Olin McClendon, Sr. Warden
A. T. Christiansen, Jr. Warden

Ontario ........................... No. 301....Arthur C. F rancis, Master ...............: 4S.90

. Fallbrook ........._......,........ No. 317.... Charles E. Stubblefield, Master.. ...... 53.30

Santa Lucia .................... No. 302.... Porter S. Young, Sr. Warden .........: 11.52

Emmanuel... ..........:......:..No. 318.... Harry Cohn, Past Master................ 10.56
Talmage E. Losee, Representative

P orterville ......................Xo. 303 ...Galen R. N ofzinger, Master............ 25.08
Logan L. Dobbs, Sr. Warden
Edwin S. Lawson, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 25.08
R eed. Iey............................No. 30L.McKinley D. Wheat, J r. Warden....
. 21.84

Azusa...............................No. 30,5....Harry D . Jumper, Master.................. 44.88
Ashlar ............................. N o. 306....George A. Klapp, Master .................. 47.28
John Henry Miller, Jr. Warden
Santa Monica .................No. 307....Fay Wm. McConnell, Master .......... 44.64
Frank A. H elton, Sr. Warden
Frank M. Wise, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Joseph Fleming, P ast Master
V. R. McLucas, Past Master............ 44.64
Monrovia........................N o. 308. ...Byron Darrell Haugh, Master........ 44.40
Wilson Pro Elliott, Jr. Warden
L. M. Renaker, Past Master and
Inspector ..........:............................... 44.40
Delano.............................No. 309 ....Reuben A. Root, Master............ :....... 27.06
Oliver J. Whitten, Jr. W arden
· A. S. Sheppard, Past Master

H ollenbeck. .................... No. 319.... William A. Engle, Master................ 43.08
Ernest N . Simmons, Sr. Warden
W. G. Sanborn, Past Master
'

.

South Gate...................... No. 320....Talmage D. Atkinson, Master........ 43.08
Wm. F . Berkenheger, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master
and Sr. Grand Steward .................. 43.08
A lisal... ....................:.......N o. 321....William F. Hall, Master....................
Claude I. Freeman, Sr. W~rden

3.00

Alhambra ........................No. 322 .... Victor J. Bernhard, Master............ 43.68
Erie Lake Farris, Sr. Wa rden
Charles C. N etz, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.80
Whittier.......................... No. 323 .... Alonzo Wm. J ones, Master .............. 44.52
Clarence S. Cole, Sr. Warden
Roy I. Lefever, Past Master and
· · Inspector .......................................... 44.52
Corona .....,...................... No. 324 .... Russell M. Loesch, Master................ 44.04
Robert L. W atson, Sr. Warden
Leslie E. Learned, Past Master

Sisson.............................. No. 310....Lela n 0 . ·Jamison, Master................ 30.06
C. E . G!iddon, Past Master

Consuelo..........................No. 325 .... Randall M. Simon, Sr. Warden ........ 53.58
Ar~hur Paul, Past Ma ster and
Inspector .......................................... 53.58

E. Place, P~st Master and
Representative ................................ 9.36

N eedles............................No. 326 ....John W. Hartman, Sr. Warden ........ 57.80

Tehachapi.......................No. 313....Robert S. Easterwood, Master.. ...... 32.82

Long Beach................... No. 327...John L. Telegdi, Master .................... 44.64
Layton J. Reinhardt, Sr. Warden
E. T . bate; Past Master

Los Banos ............... .-....._N o. 312.... J.

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Redondo..........:............... No. 328.... Claude Brooks, Sr~ Warden............ 44.64
Vallee de France............No. 329....Henry Ventura, Master...................... 43.08

Kllauea ............................No. 330.... Earl S. Elmore, JF. Warden..............283.00
John T. Moir, Past Master and
Jr. Grand Steward.....:....................250.00
Pacific Grove..................No. 331....Russell W. Giles, Master............'...... 9.00
Willis M. Lanigan, Sr. Warden
Charles K. Tuttle, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 9.00
Gordon E. Spotswood, Past Master
Frederick T. Cope, Past Master
Edwin A. Cope, Past Master
San Pedro......................No. 332.,..John C. Swinford, Master................ 44.64
Henry M. Woolsey, Sr. Warden
Andrew D. Miller, Jr., Jr. Warden
John A. Elliott, Past Master
Alta.............. :...................No. 333....Ebert Chute Webb, Master.............. 44.62
John D. Murphey, Pa.st Master and
Past Grand Master....................... .
Covina............................. No. 334.... I. Worth Everett, Sr. Warden.......... 44.90
General G. Stewart, Past Master
West Gate..........c ..... ...... No. 335 .... Henry Owen Wackerbarth, Master .. 43.08
Felix Jacob Jonas, Sr. Warden
Fred R. Mason, Past Master
Fruitvale......................... No. 336.... Clarence B. Dickson, Master
John Hugh Morris, Sr. Warden
Fritz Schuler, Jr. Warden
Russell C. Horstman, Past Master
Wm. I. Day, Past Master
Carquinez ........................No. 337 .... Frank N. Young, Master .................... 2.lh
Franklyn Morris, Jr. Warden
Jacob E. Hughes, Past Master and
Inspector
James King, Past Master
Benjamin F. Scribner, Past Master
Thomas Edwards, Past Master
San Jacinto....................No. 338. ... Wyman T. Pool, Master.................... 50.94
Louis D. Miller, Sr. Warden

GRAND LODGE' OF CALIFORNIA

323

Fullerton.........................No. 339....Leslie H. Mar'shaU;· Master::..:...........44.88
David E. Fickel, Sr. Warden
Arch M. Edwards, Jr. Warden
Henry C. MacMaster, Past Master
o.nd Inspector.................................... 44.88
William T . Rodger, Past Master
Oxnard ............................No. 341....Edward R. Gill, Master...................... 38.28
San Fernando................ .No. 343.... Arthur Wm. Green, .Sr...Warden .... 41.64
, · ..· -1·

King.....................No. 344.... Alfred F. Breslauer, Master
Leland S. Bright, .Sr. Warden
Albert C. Wollenberg, Jr. Warden
Sol Deutsch, Past Master and Sr.
Grand Deacon
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
C. 0. Munson, Past Master and
Inspector
Clyde C. Henshaw, Past Master
Randolph Ro$enberg, Past Master
Charles Baer; Past Ma:ster
B. G. Joseph, Past Master
H. D. Bendheim, Past Master
Merrill N . Howe, Past Master
G. C. Walfenden, Past Master
C. M. Wollenberg, Past Master
and Past Grand Master

Brentwood...................... No. 345 ....Lawrence M. Reynolds, Master...... 4.56
Palo Alto........................N o. 346....George E. King, Master.................... 2.28
Newton E. Glaeser, Past Master
Albert N. Umphreys, Past Master
Edw. C. Thoits, Past Master
McKinley........................No. 347 .... Alfred C. Curtis, Master..................
Alexander Dawfon, Sr. Warden
Raymond W. Walker, Jr. Warden
B. E. Scoble, Past Master
Harry W. Seaton, Past Master

1.20

San Bernardino ............. Ko. 348.... De Witt Mitcham, Sr. Warden....:... 47.28
George Feetham, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 47.28

324

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

325

Sequoia............................No. 349.... George A. Goff, Master
John F .; Phelps, Sr. Warden
Raymo~d
Laughrey, Jr. Warden
E<1rl Warren, Past Master
Chas. Husband, Past Master
Jesse F. Mote, Past Master
W. W. Kergan, Past Master and
inspector

Mill Valley......;.~ ...........No. 356.... Dwight L. Merriman, Master........
Thomas C. Nelson, Sr. Warden
Kent K. C. Seymour, Past Master
and Inspector
Alonzo Coffin, Past Master
T. S. Watters, Past Master
T. F. Bagshaw, Past Master
J. J. Monzingo, Past Master

Palestine..,...................... No. 351....Lloyd 0. Miller, Master.................... 43.08
Walter F. Haas, Past Master.. ...... 43.08

Buena Park. .................. No. 357....John Wm. McLauchlin, Jr. Warden 44.64

D:

Sunset ...........'.....:..:......'...No. 352.... Harry G. Bobey, Master...... ~ ............. 43.08
Charles 0 . Miller, Sr. Warden
Lloyd C. Campbell, Past Master
Rollie W . Miller, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08
· Samuel E. Burke, Past Master and
Past Grand Master ........................ 43.08
Ralph A. Chase, Past Master .......... 43.03
Pinole........... :...................No. 353. ... Leslie A. Scroggins, Master............
·
Chas. S. Pierce, Sr. Warden
Jos. E. Booth, Past Master

1.68

Presidio...........................No. 354.... Jeremiah C. Carson, Master
Sigurd C. Nelson, Sr. Warden
Caston Pope, Jr. Warden
Eric R. J ohnson, Past Master and
Inspector
.
Wm. G. Ackerman, Past Master
J. E. Butterfield, Past Master
Frank G. Watson, Past Master and
Grand Tiler
William A. Sherman, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Hollywood................ :.....No. 355 .... Walter F. Burbank, Master ............ 43.68
Russell M. Broker, Sr. Warden
James A. Fraser, Jr. Warden
William B. Ogden, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 43.08
D. F. Black, Past Master
Lee W. Goodwin, Past Master

.96

Golden State..................No. 358....Alexander J. Watson, Master........ 43.08
George M. Swain, Sr. Warden
Loyalton........ :....... ..........No. 359.... Lloyd H. Palmerton, Master ............ 31.98
S. S. Co.nklin, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 31.98
San Francisco................No. 360.... Alton V. Fuller, Master
Henry L. Alves, Sr. Warden
Fredereck Wm. Neuman, Jr. Warden
J ohn E. Rebard, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
H. L. Bush, Past Master
H. Roy Stovel, Past Master
Fort Bragg..................... No. 361....William W. Allen, Jr. Warden........ 24.08
Charity............................ No. 362....Anders C. Anderson, Master............ 3.72
Percy Henry Dunlap, Sr. Warden
Harry C. Smith, Jr. Warden
Walter I. Merrill, Past Master
Berkeley......................... No. 363 ....Albert M. Hadie, Sr. Warden
Chas. A. McKelvey, Past Master
C. J. Stone, Past Master
S. P. Arnold, Past Master
Willits ............................. No. ·365 ....John A. Bondeson, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 10.08
Las Palmas ........ :...........N o. 366.... Willard R. Tanzer, Sr. Warden...... 20.04
Ernest M. Myers, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 20.04
A. W. Horn, Past Master
James R. Erskine, Past Master

326

PROCEE.QING$ OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

South Pasadena............ No. 367....John M. Coutts, Master.................... 43.80
'Horace E. Vedder, Sr. Warden
.John W. Shenk, Past Master
.,.,.
Unity ............................... No. 368.... DonaM C. Lindley, Master.. .... ."......... 43.68
Archibald M. Morton, Sr. Warden
Roy Clifford Jellison, Jr. Warden
Dwight W. Stephenson, Past Master
and Inspector............~ ....................... 43.08
Ocean Park ....................No. 369.... Thomas C. Bryan, Master................ 44.64
Homer D. Peek, Sr. Warden
Amity:.......;... .'................. No. 370.... John A. Spears, Master
Francis Jos. Lyttle, Sr. Warden
Markus N. Dunbar, Past Master
R. I. Wisler, Past Master
James E. Cowden, Past Master
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .....................No. 371....John C. Simpson, Master..................250.00
Ed. Towse, Past Master
Gardena...........................No. 372....Keith W. Schlaegel, Sr. Warden .... 44.04
Veteran........................... No. ~73 .... E. Arnold Riley, Master.................... 44.28
Jewel... .............................No. 374....Melford G. Wesleder, Master
Clarence W. Mann, Sr. Warden
Charles Crawford, Jr. Warden
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Charles E. Anderson, Past Master
and Grand Organist
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
G. L. Halek, Past Master
John A. Snell, Past Master
Robert G. Wakeman, Past Master
Richmond ........................No. 375 ....Joseph G. Hooper, Master
Wm. C. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
George F . Sand, Past Master
E. L. Fischer, Past Master
George H. Bradner, Past Master
Charles T. Werner, Past Master
Francis Drake...............No. 376.... Albert C. Kleemeyer, Master
Bernard J. Hjerpe, Sr. Warden

327

Artesia............................ No. 377.... Wm. Stewart Russell, Sr. ·Warden .. 44.40
F. D. Caldwell, · Past Master and
Inspector ..........................:............... 44.40
E. T. Date, Past Master
Mizpah....... _................... No. 378.... Carl F. Kessel, Master........................ 43.08
Clyde N. Driskell, Past Master
Fillmore .......................... No. 379 .... Floyd M. Pearce, Master.................... 39.48
Arthur C. Price, Jr. Warden
L. C. Hannonson, Past Master
Lester A. Price, Past Master
Huntington Beach........No. 380.... Edgar B. Wilson, Master.................. 46.08
Donald M. Fuller, Jr. Warden
Oceanside....................... .No. 381....George A. Otis, Master.................... 51.46
Clark H. Morgan, Sr. Warden
Highland Park ............. .No. 382.... William R. Wilbur, Master.............. 43.08
Millard M. Mier, Sr. Warden
H. F. Weller, Past Master
Orosi.. ............................. No. 383.... W. H . Ward, Representative and
Past Master .................................... 26.40
El Centro....................... No. 384....John W. Cook, Master...................... 68.16
Robert L. Graham, Sr. Warden
Charles E. Sones, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 68.16
John S. Ross, Past Master and
Deputy Grand Master.................... 43.08
Dinuba: ........................... No. 385 .... Benjamin B. Snow, Master.............. 22.20
Clarence L. Fraser, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 22.20
Abner Fraser, Past Master
·Coalinga..........................No. 38_7.... Andrew G. Beckman. Sr. Warden.. 26.16
Parnassus ....................... No. 388....Joseph C. Durhan, Master
Roy Philip Lutzi, Sr. Warden
John Peter Mohring, Jr. Warden
Bruce Wale, Past Master
James E. White, Past Master
Palos Verdes ................. No. 389.... Howard T . Brunn, Master................ 44.64
Frederick S. Thomas, Sr. Warden

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ImperiaL. ....................... No. 390.... Leverette D. House, J r. W ard.en.... 67 .80
East Belt..'... ::............ :: ... No. 39L:N. H. Settlemoir, Representative
and Past Master .............................. 16.80
West Lake ......................No. 392.... Robert C. Allison, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08
Guy F. Bush, Jr. Warden
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08
Walter L Berger, Pa_st Master........ 43.08
Lisle .L. Smith, Past Master
C. E. Listenwalter, Past Master
W. T. Osterholt, Past Master
Balder.............................. No. 393 .... Walter J. Matson, Master ·
Percy G. Peterson, Jr. Warden
Fred J. Boehm, Past Master
Charles G. Johnson, Past Master.... 6.48
Elias Ellison, Past Master
Otto Sjogren, Past Master
P. L. Johnson, Past Master
John 0. Hansen, Past Master
University ...................... No. 394 .... John R. Lindsay, Master .................... 43.08
Robert Wm. Emmert, Sr. Warden
Turlock. .........................No. 395 .... George H. Taber, Master................ 8.40
Harry 0 . Carlson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 8.40
Apollo ............................. No. 3% .... Stanley R. Vinnicombe, Master
Jos. John Delaney, Sr. Warden
E. A. McAllister, Past Master and
Inspector
Rising Light. ................. No. 397 .... David Crossar, Master ...................... 43.88
·
Walter David Piper, Sr. Warden
Fraternity .......................N o. 399 ....Edward M. Jefferson, Sr. Warden..
·
Richard D. Lang, Jr. Warden

3.48

Burlingame ..................... No. 400 .... William Watson, Jr., Master.. .... :.... : J.20
Arthur A. Burlingame, Sr. Warden
Werner _Wm. Stahl, Jr. Warden
Samuel · L. Hawken, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 1.20
' 1-!'
Charles J. Or.man, Past Master
William Wilkin, Past Master

329

Bay View ........... ::c .... :....No. 401....Harold M. Bankhead, Master
Elmer Wm. Hickman, Sr. Warden
Robert B. Walden, Jr. Warden
William L. Garver, Past Master
John T . Walker, Past Master
F . W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley .................,........ No. 402 .... Robert Leon McLean, Master ........ 66.84
Richard H . Wellington, Sr. Warden
Yerba Buena ................. No. 403 ....Turner McAllaster, Master
Herbert J. Orchison, Sr. Warden
Charles E. Powell, Past Master
Gleridora ......... :............... No. 404.... Frank H. Brown, Sr. Warden ........ 45.12
Moneta ............................ No. 405 .... Wm. John Walker, Master ................ 43.08
Burbank .. ........................ No. 406.... Harry Homer Larson, Master .......... 42.36
.
Herbert S. Sprinkle, Sr. Warden
La Mesa ......................... No. 407.... Roy E:. Vermillion, Sr. Watden ........ 55.64
Sierra Madre ................ .No. 408 .... Raymond D. Andrews, Master ........ 44.04
Harold E. Alleri, Past Master
Honolulu ........................ .Ko. 409 .... Walter R. Dunham, Sr. Warden ..... .250.00
Charter Rotk .................No. 4.10 .... Ftank 0 . Lee, Master
Etnest S. Page, Sr. Warden
Wm. Claus Juergens, Jr. Warden
T. H. Beatty, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Aloert Brandt, Past Master
Arthur ·L. Patterson, Past Master
L. R. Chilcote, Past Master
Pcrris .............. :... .'............ No: 411 .... John W. Kirlcpatrick, Master ............ 48.82

C.al~xico .................... ::: ...No. 412 .... Jos. B. BurdiCk, Master ........ ,............ 67.22
.,, ·'

Robert Wm. . Hatton, Sr. Warden
Frank M. Czarnowski, Jr., Past
Master

W<lucoba......................... No. 413 .... Allan R. McDonald, Master ............ 58.72
Arlington ........... ::cc·: ....... N(), 4l4....Artb~r , C. Ayers. Master ..... :............ 43.08
Barbour Wynns, Jr., Sr. Warden

330

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

331

Silver Trowel... .........:...No: 415 ....Albert Bates, Master........................ 43.08
John C. Cook, Sr. Warden
Joseph J. Strauss, Past Master

McClou<l ..................,...... No. 430....Lem R. Heryford, Sr. Warden........ 32.46
.
G. F. Wetzel, Past Master
· ·
R. D. Wetzel, Past Master

Lindsay............................N'o. 416... .Joseph R. Benedict, Master.............. 24.36
Edward .V. Bogart, Sr. Warden

Alpha ...............................No. 431....Everett C. Lambrecht, Master........ 1.20
. Homer Wm. Patterson, Sr. Warden
John Wm. Lee, Jr. Warden
Wm. P. Self, Past Master
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
Wm. J. Smiley, Past Master

CIQ1(is............................... No. 417.... Da~ B.. Hinds, Master........................ 21.00
Elysian.............................No. 418.... Fenil M. Durkee, Master.. ................ 43.08
I!ranklin L. Knox, Sr. Warden
R. F. Callender, Past Master
Upland....... .....................No. 419....J ohn B. Browning, Sr. Warden........ 46.08
Kerman-......."...................No. 420.... Rene Steiner, Sr. Warden ..:............... 13.20
lnglewood....................... 1\'o". 421....Alonzo V. Miller, Master................ 45.16
Edward S. Lawrence, Sr. Warden
Fred R. Pardee, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 45.16
Eagle· Rock ....................No. 422.... 0liver E. Forsyth, Master................ 43.9S
Glenn G. Spires, Sr: Warden
York................................,No. 42L.Wm. Chisnall. Master........................ 43.08
Exeter.::: ..........................No. 424 .... Chester R. Buckman, Master............ 23.88
Frank W. Mixter, Past Master and
· Junior Grand Warden .................. 23.88
lfoltville.:.'............;...........No. 425 ....Joe Jardin, Master.............................. 65.92
Gale Gooden Cooper, Sr. Warden
C. H. Eckert, Past Master
J. R. . Snyder, Past Master
. 'fl. E. Jiartzog, Past Master

.

.

Midway...................,. ... ,.. ;No. 42Q....James M. Monroe, Master................y33.78
· ·
Russell Johnson, Sr. Warden
·

Hammonton ...."...~ ........... No. 433....Archie W. Hopfield, Past Master
and Representative.......................... 10.50
Maricopa.:....:......... :: ...::.No. 434....Elmer A. Walker, Sr. Warden........ 33.42
·· ·
Kenneth Le Gar, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 33.78
Fairmount......... ,...,..,......No. 435 ....lvan Thomas Crase, Master
George R. Switzer, Sr. Warden
Ralph Wm. McDonald, Jr. Warden
Denman S. Wagstaff, Past Master
Pieter a de Vries, Past Master
George Pollitt, Past Master
Herman F. Harwood, Past Master
Rudolph llling, Past Master
George W . Gerhard, Past Master

Claremo~t ..:....................No. 436....Harry Eugene Joos, Master............ 45.72
Lancaster........................No. 437....Gilpin S. Lindsey, Sr. Warden........ 37.42
Acacia..............:...............No. 438.... Herman Franz, Master...................... 43.08
Arthur Schramm, Jr. Warden
·

'T;~ian.:: ..::,::.,.::,............. No. 439....E. R. Pahre, Past Master and
'

t

..

Representative .................................. 6.24

•

Chino Va.lleY...,.::........... No. 4Z7....Bert R. Moody, Master...................... 45.96

. Standard......................... No ..440....John Eric Brunzell, Master
·
·· · · ·
Wm. Henry Pleitner, Sr. Warden
Charles Byrd Olds, Jr. Warden .

San Dimas............. :..'......No. 428....John G. Soder, Sr. Warden ................ 45.24
Harry J. Smead, Jr. Warden
William J. . Gregg, Past Master
Arthur Tangemann, Past Master
. _and Inspector ......... -.......................... 45.24

Coronado.'.:..................... .N~. 441.. .. Wm. N. Darrock, Master ................ 55.76
Willard A. Lindgren, Sr. Warden
Edward C. Nevins, Jr. Warden
Vil. D. Rodgers, Past Master

PittsburS-... .... :,. ............. Ncd29 ....John A. Liljegren, Master................ 3.60

·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

332

333

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BlackmeL .......:..:·····.:.... No. 442.·.~.Lloyd E. Griffin, Master ____________________ 55.64
Wm, Pot"ter Kemper, Sr. Warden
Ralph J. Virdin, Jr. Warden
· Warren E. Libby, Past Master........ 43.08
Ed:w<1rd M. Sutliff, Past Master
Schofield......................... N o. 443... ~. Robe'rt L. Dancy, Jr. Warden ..........250.00
Car.pinteria .....................No. 444.... Thornton M. Shorkley, Jr. Warden .. 36.36
Wilshire..........................No. 445 .... Philip Corrin, Master........................ 43.08
Le Roy ·cannan, Sr. Warden
Thomas A. Dille, Past Master and
Inspe.c tor -·-----------------------------------·-----·- 43.08
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master........ 43.08
Erne's i L. Webster, Past Master
Warren D. Gill, Past Master and
, f.rand Parsuivant ---·----·-------·--------- 43.08
La Puenfe.....................:No. 446....Lance D. Smith, Master.................... 44.52
.

J .

Torrance......................... No. 447....Jack 0. Boyd, Jr. Warden................ 44.28
Mt. Diablo...:··--·-----·--·---No. ~: ... Walter E . Sharpe, Master................ 3.24
Park.....:...................•.......No. 449....George Henry Gisin, Master
Henry George Gerdes, Sr. Warden
Cloudsly D. Rutter, Jr. Warden
Albert W . Stokes, Past Master
Foster G. Dyer, Past Master and
Inspector
Burton Etter, Past Master
Van Nuys .......................No. 450....Thomas F. Force, Past Master and
. Representative ,..................,. ..........·-:·· 43.08
Carl B. Barkla, Past Master ·and
. .lns{lector .................................... ,...,. 41.88
Montebello.'...:...............'..No. 4°5.L..Ge~r,ie G. Osborn, Master ................ 4'3.cIB
Sa.n Pasquale.................No. 452....Charles V. Goin, Master.................... 44.04
William C. Ogl~sby, Sr. Warde~· . . . · .
Don~ld G. White, Jr. Warden
Bethlehem............ :..........N o. 453... :]arries F . Strachan, Master
John C. Painter, Sr. Warden
Chas. W. Green, Past Master

Crocker...........................N o. 454....Joseph Swan, Master
.
James G. Allan, Sr. Warden
John.Mitchell, Jr. Warden
George Watson, Past Master
R. H. Turner, Past Master
William Kahran, Past Master
Angus Campbell, Past Master
George Edw. Archer, Past Master
Golden Wesi:.:.~.:: ........... No. 455 .... John J. McLeod, Master
'
··
Ernest E. Gable, Sr. Warden
Clarence V. Farley, Jr. W arden
Frank M. McNulty, Past Master
George A. Brockmann, Past Master
Rene G. Fontaine, Past Master
Paul F . Doring, Past Master
Ra.mona ..............:............ No. 457....Louis U. Stone, Master.................... 43.68
Wilbert G. Stewart, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 43.63
H. M. Tedford, Past Master
L. P . McClellan, Past Master
H enry S . 0 rme............
'

No . 458....0tto C. Whitaker, Master.................. 43.08
F. C. Warner, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08

Riverbank:......................No. 459....Jacob P. Myers, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 7.92
Mt. Oso..........................No. 460 ....Guy Harold Ayer, Sr. Warden........
Argonaut......................... N.o..461.. ..J ohµ A. Evans, .Master
·
Addison B. Collms, Sr. Warden
Jos~ph Bernard, Jr. Warden
J. A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Sigfried Fels, Past Master
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Virgil L. Wallace, Past Master
Harry P. Rothermel, Past Master
J os. A. 'Blackford, Past Master
W. M. Downing, Past Master
Purcell Rowe, Past Master
H omer P . Thyle, Past Master
J. W. Strawn, Past Master

5.00

334

PROCEEDINGS OF THE . '

Paul Revere ...................No. 462.... Alonzo James Owens; Master
Jacob Wm. Warshaw, Sr. Warden
Oscar W. Sandstrom, Jr. Warden
W. A. Gerder, Past Master
Morgan Hlll ..................No. 463 .... Thomas H. Sheldon, Jr. Warden.... 4.92
Alta Vista....................... No. 464....Robert Duncan Brown, Master
Ernest V. Brown, Sr. Warden
Arthur W. Hewit, Jr. Warden
H. L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Center..............................No. 465 ....Ernest . Jenner, Sr. Warden.............. 20.04
Libertas ........................... No. 466....Carlton Wm. Minner, Master.......... 29.34
Clyde N. Hislop, Sr. Warden
Gerald T. Fowler, Jr. Warden
A. E. Overton, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 29.34
Rockridge ....................... No. 468....Fred R. Templeton, Master
Douglas G. Montell, Sr. Warden
Frederick G. Swirzer, Jr. Warden
George W. Miller, Past Master
Ura W. Shea, Past Master
Yorba Linda.................No. 469.... Ernest R. Scribner, Master .............. 45.00
Ross Bernard Johnson, Sr. Warden
Lincoln............................ No. 470.... George S. McCullough, Sr. Warden
George A. Hannan, Jr. Warden
Arthur Joel, Past Master and
Inspector
Alexander B. High, Jr. Past Master
Leslie E. Garren, Past Master
James C. Wilder, Past Master
David L. Wolf, Past Master
Delta......................:......... No. 471....Frank V. Mayo, Master.................. 6.12
Maui... ............................. No. 472....Emil Davis, Jr. Warden ....................266.70
BIYthe..............................No. 473....Bert A. Casp, Representative ............ 68.26
Victory............................No. 474.... 0scar G. Goldman, Master
James B. Waugh, Sr. Warden
Fred L. Widner, Jr. Warden
Max Alexander, Past Master
Claude P. Farris, Past Master
G. L. Halek, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALtFORNIA

33fi

America...........................No. 475 .... William M. Holbrook, Master........ 43.08
Victor E. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Gilbert B. Carr, Jr., Jr. Warden
W. A. Schreider, Past Master and
J nspector ............................................ 43.0~
Aaron D. . Flickinger, Past Master
Coachella ........................No. 476....James Gordon Nusbaum, Master .... 59.88
C. B. Jones, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 59.88
Tcmblor.......................... No. 477....Derwood F. Devlin, Master.............. 34.38
Thousand Oaks............. No. 478....Robert C. Pauli, Master
Leroy V. Hitchcock, Past Master
and Inspector
William Wisenfeld, Past Master
Colden Rule ...................No. 479....Joseph C. Boschken, Master............ 3.48
Fellowship...................... No. 480....Charles F. Nichols, Master
Alvin N. Lubold, Sr. Warden
J. B. Warner, Past Master
Mt. Davidson................ No. 481.. .. Roy R. Hansen, Master
Arthur M. Warren, Sr. Warden
Alfred Harris Nicoll, Jr. Warden
James M. Kemp, Past Master
Harry C. Wilber, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith ......... No. 482....John Porter Haynor, Master............ 43.08
Everett C. Zies, Sr. Warden
F. G. Falloon, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08
BelL.................................No. 483....Walter F. Lewis, Master.................. 43.08
Albert Pike....................No. 484.... Ross Conklin Jackson, Master........ 43.08
Chowchilla ...................... No. 485.... Marvin E. Neumann, Master............ 11.40
Caledonia ........................No. 486.... Homer Zimmerman Myers, Master.. 29.34
George Russel Grubb, Sr. Warden
N. D. Cleghorn, Past Master
C. E. Mallachowitz, Past Master
Vallejo.............................No. 487 ....John Krider Harrison, Master........ 2.40
Harry M. Rowe, Sr. Warden
Frederick B. Hall, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Patterson........................ No. 488.... David Moody Light, Master............ 7,08
,.
· Hyrum ]. Martinson, Sr. Warden .

Capital City..,..';.....:..~ ...:No. 499....James H. Bligh, Master.................... 6.48

336

East Bay..........'.:.............No: 489,...Loren A. Painter, Master
·
John He.n ry Bertram, Sr. Warden
Clifford B. Marker, Jr. Warden
E. L. McVean, Past Master
B. L. Wilson, Past Master
R. · H . Parkinson. Past Master
Frederick W. Miller, Past Master
Corcoran.........................No. 490.... Henry G. Jobe, Master .................... 23.46
Woodstock ................'..... l\'o. 491....Edmund G. Hathaway, Master
Layton A. Choice, Sr. Warden
T. S. Hersey, Past Master
R. W. Merrick, Past Master
Garvanza ........................No. 492.... Edward M. Schrader, Master ........ 43.08
Charles 0. Zimmerman, Sr. Warden
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Atascadero......................No. 493.... B. W. Pennington, Sr. Warden .... 16.20
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Acbrn ...............................No. 494.... Harold M. Nash, Master
Harry B. Wells, Sr. Warden
Arthur L. Nelson, Jr. Warden
Clai:ence M. Lake, Past Master
Reginald V. Joste, Past Master
Lebanon ...........,....... c... . .. No. 495 .... Roy R. Shoulberg, Master
Louis Sockolov, Sr. Warden
George Thomas Black, Past Master
Bernard B. Stimmell, Past Master
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Riverdale ........................ o. 496....Leroy E. Harlan, Jr. Warden.......... 21.60
Fremont...........................No. 497.... George H . Dalmas, Master
Robert M. Sharp, Sr. Warden
Albert E. Gracie, Jr. Warden
C. C. Morris, Past Master and
Inspector
Ira E. Prosser, Past Master
Stockton ...........................)l o. 498....Mart , Amick Hicks, Master............ 6J2
:HY Greenberg, Jr. Warden .

•_,

337

! • •f V

Roosevelt.. ...................... No. 500.... Victor L. Pucinelli, Master
Edward T. Kelly, Sr. Warden
Otto C. Huth, Jr. Warden
J oseph Scannell, Past Master
Louis Ferrari, Past Master
J. J. Cuneo, Past Master
Westwood ............ ..... :....No. 501....Eugene L. Smith, Master................ 32.12
Harbor.. .......................... No. 502....Emmett Hitchcock, Master................ 1.20
Lewis E. Jones, Sr. Warden
Thomas A. Deadrich, Jr. Warden
Point.................... :: .... :..... No. 503 ....Alfred S. Petersen, Master............

1.20

Seaside............................ No. 504....J ohn Whetter, Master........................ 44.64
Melvin R. Berbower, S r. W arden
Silver Co.rd .......".............No. 505 .... Carl Robert Edgar, Master .............. 45.48
Ralph E. Graves, Sr. Warden
Mount Olive..................No. 506....Roy H oward Milton, Master ............ 43.08
I van Errol Silvera, Sr. Warden
El Segundo .................... o. 507....George H . West, Master................ 44.28
Joppa ................:......::....... No. 508.... Warren W . Beatty, Past Master.... 19.32
Benjamin Franklin........No. 509 .... Frank!in K. Pollitt, Master............ 43.08
Donald Dale Cunliff, Sr. Warden
Ka'~! N. Eckers, Jr. Warden
Cupertino........ :....,.."........No. 510.... Albert Baer, Master............................ 3.38
Ciarence L. Rich, Sr. Warden
Walter C. Hecox, Jr, Warden
E. T. Nielscin, Past Master
Robert A. McArthur, Past Master
·Glenn L. Allen, Past Master
Sunnyvale.....:...:.... :........ No. 511.... Forre!it · E. Faust, Master......:....... :. · 2.88
Hiram :N . Bishop, Sr. Warden
Wm. John Blanken, Jr. Warden
Palms................ :........ :.... o. 512.... Clarence· S. Lankard, Master ........ 44.28
Cahuenga.......... :'.~~.: ........ No. 5i3 ...:·ciarence W. Murphy, Master ........ 43.08
W iflia:in G. Cave, Sr. Warden
Roy C. Bryan, Jr. Warden
A. N . McAllister, Past Master

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THEl

Argonne...................,...... No. 514....LeRoy B. Richards, Master
Clarence A. Nelson, Sr. Warden
Harold W . Skillman, Jr. Warden
P. 0. Courtemanche, Past Master
John H. Turner, Past Master
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
and Grand Marshal
Lawrence C. Thompson, Past Master
V('rl11ont Square ............ No. 515 .... Karl Frederick Leitz, Master.......... 43.08
Wm. Randolph Wadsworth, Jr.,
Sr. Warden
Taft... ...... :...............:........ No. 516 .... Charles E. Allen, Master.................. 33.78
H . E. Osburn, Past Master
.Mt.. Vernon ............... :... N9. 517 .... <;ieorge Wm. Gresley Jackson, Master
Harold Wm. Chaunce, Sr. Warden
La J olla .................. ,....... No. 518 .... Luther Brown, Master ........................ 55.64
S. T. Gillespie, Past Master and
Inspector ...........................................~ 55.64

Eu~!id·.. :.....,.."............... .-... No. 5i9.,.. Joel H . Richardson, Sr. Warden.... 43.08
James T . Montana, Past Master
T. A. McMillan, Past Master
fonil::.,.,, ....:.......:............._..No. 520....Elijah M. Smuckler, Master... ......... 43.08
Benj. Jos. Moss, Sr. Warden
Piedmont ........................No. 521....Richard H. Chamberlain, Master
Edward S. Hough, Jr. Warden
: S~ri~e .._. ..... ,... ,.. ,............ No. 522 .... Gerald

M. Clifford, Master .............. 43.08
John D. Hartup, Sr. Warden

Bellflower... :.......... : .~ ......No. 523 .... George Thomas Elsey, Master ........ 44.46
·
· Harry A. Canfield, Past Master
Catalina Island .............. No. 524.... John Leslie Fitch, Master.................. 47.58
Philip Sidney Allen, Sr. Warden
George Waskington ......No. 525 .... Georgc Lee Draper, Master
Donal~ D. Morrill, Sr. Warden
John Johnson, Jr. Warden
Bay City ............. :.......... No. 526.... Julius S. Rosenthal, Master
C. E;., Bowen, Past Master
Covenant ......................... No. 527 ....Chas. R. I.araway, Sr. Warclen .....~. 43.08

GRAND LODGE 01'' CALIFORNIA

339

Beverley Hills ................ No. 528.... Harry V. Gilbert, Master ................ 43.08
Noah C. Peters, Jr. Warden
Joe Bookman, Past Master
Albert L. C. Hitchen, Past Master
Loyalty ............................ No. 529 .... Harry C. Rocque, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08
Sun . Garden ................... No. 530....Frank . M. King, Sr. Warden ............ 20.04
Alexandria ..................... No. 531....Philip L. Chase, Master
Stewart H. Hook, Sr., Sr .. Warden
Kenneth F. Cable, Jr. Warden
F . B. McAtee, Past Master
Frank B. Hobbs, Past Master and
Asst. Grand Secretary
Smyrna ........................... No. 532 .... Charles H. Austin, Master.............. 7.80
Azui:e ...............................No. 533 .... Ray Spencer Davis, Master ............ 44.88
L. L. Tanner, Past Master
Forest" Hill ..................... No. 534.... Vernon E. Britt, Master
Louis J. Douat, Jr. Warden
Alexander Hamilton .... No. 535 .... Chas. C. Kendis, Sr. Warden ............ 43.08
Seal Rock. ........ :.. .... ....... No. 536.... Edwin Wm. Bode, Master
John K. Wright, Past Master
Milo Bohall, Past Master
Utopia ........ :: .. :.: ......... :..... No: 537 .... Wm. Valentine Dorr, Master .......... 43.08
· · ··
Lee Roy Gay, Sr. Warden
Ascot... ........... :................ No: 538 .... Boyd A. Young, Master .................... 43.08
Samuel Lythgoe, Jr. Warden
Belvedere .....:..................No. 539 .... Jose~h A. Swingley, Master ............ 43.08
Perry_ Perl Long, Sr. Warden
Queen Beach ......,., .........No. 540 ....James L. Kennedy, Master.. ............ ,. 44.64
Henry Morse Stephens No. 541.. .. Joseph L. Banville, Master
" '
.
Theodore W. Ralston, Sr. Warden
Joseph S. Fairchild, Jr. Warden
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
iLankershim .................... No. 542.... Chas. Osborne, Representative ........ 42.24
Signal.., .... ~ ...................... No. 543 .... William T. Hobden, Master ............ 44.64
Louis G. Harvey, Sr. Warden

3'40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Glendalc ..........:...:......:....No. 544.... Gcorgc W. Mishier, Master............ 43.68
Ralph W. Martin, Jr. Warden
Jsmathan ......................... No. 545 .... John Thomas Bickle, Master
·
David N. Neal, Sr. Warden
Herbert E. Stone, Past Master
San Gabriel... ................ No. 546.... Ha.rry Otis Brown, Master.............. 43.80
Frank L. Berg, Sr. Warden
.
Roy A. Morehead, Past Master
Arcadia ................:.: .........No. 547.... Thomps,on D. Sackett, Master........ 44.28
Triangle..........................No. 548.... G. B. Stearns, Past Master and
Representative ···························-······ 44.64
Jusfice ...............:: .............No. 549.... Albert E. Speers, Master
Hall Slocumb, Sr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Hans C. Christiansen, Past Master
Seaport............................No .. 5SO....John . George Wullschleger, Master
Ernest B. Shaw, Sr. Warden
Arthur H. DeGuire, Jr. Warden
· J. Alpers, Past Master
Walter H. E. Von Kansky, Past
Master
James J . Yates, Past Master
Otto Holtzen, Past Master
Lak'eshore................ :.. :..;No. 551 ....George H . ·Wilson, Master
John R. ·McKalip, Jr. Warden
John R. Wood, Past Master
S.emper Virens .............N o. 5S2:.:. Thadifeus Jos . .Dourain, Master.,. ..... 29.40

G~lden City........~.,.:.......Ho.'55~_. ... StanTe:y. E. Ellis, Master

0
. FraclG .i Lewis, Past Master

Educat~·r:;:,,~,.._.,_.:.:.:.......;.N~. ·ss4,...t1:/~s ~~e{~r~~~;~r~:ster
-: ..

White Pine ....................No. 555 .. :.Richard M. Jone;, Master................ 30.90
' ··
Jack
Goddard; Jr. Warden
· · Fent6n· W. Jamison, Past Master
and rnspector ................................ 30.90

W:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fairfax........................... No. 556.... Herbert A. Nelson, Master..............
Frank Happersberger, Jr., Sr.
. Warden
Ralph Carl Carr, Jr. Warden

341

1.32

Hermosa'......................... No. 557.... David R. Finnick, Sr. Warden........ 44.64
Point Firmin......... :.......N o. 558 ....J ulius A. Eichhorn, Master.............. 44.64
F red A. Simons, Sr. Warden
Albert Crossfield, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.64
Craftsmen...:...................No. 559....Edward T. Warner, Master ............ 43.08
Thomas Holmes, Sr. Warden
P.!ymouth ........................ No. 560....Neal F. Plunkett, Master
Joseph J. Lagler, Sr. ·Warden
Thomas M. Price, Jr. Warden
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego............ No. 5_61....Alfred .Wm. B. Roxburg, Sr.
Warden .............................................. 55.64
Pyramid.......................... >J"o. 562....Walter P. Mollison, Master
Thomas E. Harris, Sr. Warden
Clifford R. Ward, Jr. Warden
South Park. ...................N o. 563 .... Clarence J. Walker, Master.............. 43.08
Harold E. Green, Sr. Warden
R. M. Eberts, Past Master
Foothill........................... No. 564.... William H . Follrath, Master
Lawrence McD. Osborn, Sr. Warden
Harry C. Jordan, Jr. Warden
W. M. Jensen, Past Master
B. J. Hqffman, Past Master
West Adams·..................No. 565 .... Raymond F . St. Jean, Master.......... 43.08
Walter R. Allen, Sr. Warden
James A. Garfield ........:.No. 566....Warren E. Carey, Jr. Warden ........ 43.08
Searchlight.....................No. 567.... David Perkins, Sr. Warden ............ 44.64
.

.

Park Boul~vard: ........... No. 568... ,Harry Lee Houck, Master
John McSweyn, Sr. Warden
William D. Ingraham, Jr. Warden
Jame~ .E. Hammond, Past Master
and Inspector
John McEwing, Past Master

342

.

..
.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chateau Thierry ............No. 569 .... William G. Hassard, Master
Ralph M. Smith, Sr. Warden
·Carl E. Hagstrom, Jr. Warden
David L. Babcock, Past Master
Military Service ........... No. 570.... Alvin C. Gundred, Master
Lloyd F. De Witt, Sr. Warden
Frank L. Lambertson, Jr. Warden
L. Morton Nichols, Past Master
Wm. Sample Edgar, Past Master
Eugene Nichols, Past Master ·
August Siedler, Past Master
Cornelius J. Manning, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

343

Security ...........................No. 581....Frank ]. Gleason, Master................ 29.34
Earl R. Gilbert, Sr. Warden
Ludwig F. Deibel, Jr. Warden
Rialto ......... ,........ ,........... .No. 582 .... Wayne A. Weller, Master ................ 47.16
Frederick Wm. Reuss, Sr. Warden
Wasco ................. :........... .No. 583 .... Robert S. Miller, Sr. Warden .......... 27.70
Harding .......................... No. 584.... John Hinton Graves, Sr. Warden .... 43.08
Floyd Van Hickman, Jr. Warden
Manchester ..................... No. 585 ....James Wm. Watson, Master ............ 43.08
Garden Grove ................ No. 586 .... James S. Hammontree, Master ........ 44.76
Arthur J. Woodworth, Past Master

Francis K. Shattuck. .... .No. 571....Ralph Boyd, Master ·
Fred W. McCollough, Sr. Warden
Maurice E. Post, Jr. Warden
Leonard H. Castlio, Past Master
Bruce Bartholomew, Past Master
G. B. Ocheltree, Past Master

El Sereno ........................ No. 588.... Arthur M. Peer, Sr. Warden .......... 43.08

James Madison ............. No. 572... .]ason Leslie Liscom, Master .... :....... 43.08

Compass ...................... c••• No. 590.... Willis Murie Colbern, Master.......... 45.60
·
Wm. Everett May, Sr. Warden

Hillcrest ................... - ..... No. 573 .... Byron 0. Pickard, Master
Warren H. Pillsbury, Sr. Warden
Ralph R. Vawter, Jr. Warden ·
S. W. Hackett... ........... No. 574.... 0tho B. Kissell, Master.................... 55.10
Lloyd J. Learn, Sr. Warden
Fort Crook. ................... No. 575 .... Ernest P. C. Gronwoldt, Sr.
Warden ............................................ 34.12
Otho Stewart, Past Master

Valley Forge ..................No. 587 .... Herbert M. Holker, Master .............. 43.08

Kauai... ............................ No. 589 .... James B. Corstorphine, Sr.
Warden ..............................................272.00

Escalon.................:......... .No. 591....James Hunt Vincent, Master............ 7.56
Tujunga .......................... No. 592.... Robert R. Hendrix, Jr. Warden ...... 42.60
All States ....................... N o. 593 .... Arthur Perry Couch, Master ............ 44.64
Anker L. Kelgard, Sr. Warden
Service ............................ No. 594.... Fred M. Chandler, Master ................ 44.64
Alex. Graham Bell... ..... No. 595 .... Gerald John Austin, Master ............ 43.08

El Cajon Valley ........... No. 576 .... Robert Livesay, Master .................... 56.70
Rexford Luther Hall, Sr. Warden

Guardian......................... No. 596 .... Jesse A. Squires, Master .................... 43.08

Sunnyside...................... .Ko. 577 .... Clarence G. Hustler, Master ............ 43.08
Frederick W. Pavies, Sr. Warden
P. F. Bruner, Past Master

Carmelita ........................ No. 599 .... Alfred Lind Gerrie, Master .............. 44.04

Progressive .....................No. 578.... Claude Horton Reynolds, Master .... 43.08
Darrell W. Rosecrans, Sr. Warden
Warren G. Harding ......No. 5i9.... Peter A. Stenberg, Master................ 6.84
Santa Maria .................. No. 580 .... Albert C. Bisher, Master.................... 57.38
Albert C. Bisher, Past Master

Pearl Harbor................. No. 598 .... Ernest H. H. Muller, Past Master ..250.00

Lynwood .......... ,.............. No. 600 .... Rollo Felkner Hansen, Master ........ 43.68
Grizzly.............................No. 601....W. W. Thrailkill, Master .................. 29.46
Francis L. O'Rourke, Sr. Warden
Alfred N. Waite, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 29 .46

346

PlWCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE O}j' CALIFORNIA

Mrlrose..............·.... ~ ........No. 602.... John F. Eastwood, Master ................ 43.08
Ralph A. Hix, Sr. Warden
James Lynn Goode, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 43.08
J. E. C. Adamson, Past Master

Neptune ........................... No. 619 .... Aubert B. English, Master................ 44.64

Dimond ........................... .No. 603 .... Harold A. Hodemark, Master
Carlton W . Seely, Sr. Warden
James F. Buscelli, Past Master

Atwater .................;......... No. 622 .... Glen Wood Jones, Master .................. 43.08

344

Jubilee ............................. .No. 604 .... Hestro Clayton Collins, Sr. Warden 45.48
Glassell Park. ................ No. 605 .... Guy Thomas Gillespie, Master ........... 43.08
Sojourners ...................... N o. 607.... David Larsen, Sr. Warden ................ 44.40
Granada .........................,.No. 608 .... Kenneth N. Knesel, Master .............. 43.68
Erosco C. Woodward, Sr. Warden
Provident... ..................... No. 609 .... Harry Miller Graft, Master.............. 6.48
David Nyrop, Sr. Warden
Leslie Earl Wood, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 6.48
Elmhurst ......................... No. 610 .... Fred L. Brous, Master
George R. Peters, Sr. Warden
Carl E . .Boorman, Past Master
Owensmouth ..... :············No. 611....Herbert W. Allen, Sr. Warden ........ 41.28
Temple City................... No. 612.... Herbert M. Tellkamp, Master .......... 43.08
Three Pillars ..................No. 613 .... Charles B. Essex, Master.................. 6.48
Charles E. Frazier, Sr. Warden
Larchmont.. .................... No. 614.... George E. Montgomery, Master ...... 43.08
Arthur P. Pratt, Sr. Warden
George P. Salm, Past Master and
Inspector ................................................ 43.08
Hemet .............................. No. 615 .... Heston L. Wilson, Master ................ 50.56
Seal. Beath ..................... .No. 616.... James A. Graham, Master .. :............... 44.40
Festus A. Steen, Sr. Warden
Big Bear........ :; ................ No. 617.... Maxiiniliian J. Rohde, Sr. Warden .. 59.78
Southland ....................... .No. 618 .... Dabid Fletcher, Master.. ...................... 43.08
Wm. L. Hovis, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08

Peninsula ...................... ::No. 620.... George W. MacBride, Master..'........ 55.64
The Gardens .................. No. 621....Louis 0. Diehl, Sr. Warden ........... ~.- 43.08
Charles F. Kortright, Jr. Warden

Menorah .... :.:....:.. .'........... No. 623 .... Samuel J. Lewison, Master .............. 43.08
Fortitude ........................ No. 624 .... Bradford N. Newman, Sr. Warden
· Tracy E. Clark, Jr. Warden
Frederick L. Shaw, Past Master
Andries H. Van F.ck, Past Master
Clifford M. Gates, Past Master
Frank Ziegler, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................. No. 625 .... Joseph Ward, Master .......................... 43.08
Herschel L. Blewett, Sr. Warden
Chula Vista ...•.................No. 626 .... Evan Scammon Crockett, Master ..... 56.24
Chas. Edw. Smith, Sr. Warden
Howard L. Carrell, Past Master
Lamanda Park. .............. No. 627 .... Cfia'rles E. Church, Master ................ 43.08
Albert 0. Nelson, Sr. Warden
Beacon of the West... ....No. 628 .... Charles W. McGinnis, Sr. Warden .. 43.08
Fair:view ......................... .No. 629 .... Harry Maquire, Master ...................... 45.16
Arthur W. Billings, Sr. Warden
Ingleside......................... .No. 630 .... Chas. Edw. Moore, Master
Mont Emmel Henderson, Sr. Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Master
. George H. B. Wright, Past Master
and Grand Chaplain
Raymond N. Blosser, Past Master
Benevolence .................... No. 631.. .. Paul Dewey Tarr, Master .................. 43.08
Myron A. Hatfield, Sr. Warden
Normal Heights ........... .No. 632.... George Francis Stewart, Master ...... 55.64
Poinsettia ........................ No. 633 .... Earl W. Edson, Master...................... 37.56
A. T. Mead, Past Master
Louis Claude Drapeau, Past Master
Victorville ...................... .No. 634 .... Jesse R. I;>emaree, Master ................ 47.28
.
.
Wm. F. McEwen, Past Master

347

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Riverside........................ No. 635 ....John H. Prater, Master...................... 47.28

Florence..........................No. 649.... Raymond C. Menk~r, M~ster ............ 43.5ti

John Marshall... ......._....No. 636.... Robert A. Wm. Bultman, Jr. Warden ...........:..,....................................... 43.08

La Brea........................... N o. 650....J ay Otis Burnett, Master.. ................ 43.08
Wm. Wallace Wedding, Sr. Warden
Wm. H . Parcels, Past Master

346

Palisades......................... N o. 637....George A. McDermott, Sr. Warden 44.64
Robert B. Skelly, Jr. Warden
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock....................No. 638.... Frederick T. Herrick, Master
·
Theodore E. Glazier, Sr. Warden
John Ritchie McKee, Jr. Warden
Arthur N. Hall, Past Master
H. W. Carlson, Past Master
Composite....................... No. 639.... Samuel S. Adler, Master .................. 43.08
Hugo Freed, Sr. Warden
Veritas............................No. 640....John F. Krayenbuhl, Master
Ira Henry Larsen, Sr. Warden
Albert Jackson Callahan, Jr. Warden
Leonard S. Leavy, Past Master and
Inspector
Louis T. Cranz, Past Master
Preston H . King, Past Master
Kenneth M. Brown, Past Master
James A. Foshay...........No. 641.. .. Henry F. Starbuck, Past Master
and Representative.......................... 43.08
Wm. H . Gribble, Past Master

Menlo Park.....................No. 651.... Victor Louis Hugo, Master.............. 2.26
Tillman B. Hunnell, Jr. Warden
Fred Clark Metcalf, Past Master
Crescenta Valiey.. - ........No. 652.... Leicester C. Hall, Master.. ................ 43.08
Fontana...........................No. 653....Edward Cowie, Master...................... 46.92
Jordan ..............................No. 654....Jay A. Powers, Master ............., ........ 43.08
Monte Vista....................No. 655 .... Edward W. Hecker, Master.............. 43.0ll
Citrol... ............................ No. 656....Robert Edw. Critchlow, Master...... 44.64
John D. Spreckels .........No. 657.... Daniel E. Lewis, Master .................... 55.64
Livingston......................No. 658.... Warren F. McConnell, Sr. Warden 4.56
Elgin Evans, Past Master
La Habra........................ No. 659....Henry C. Dohrman, Master.............. 43.08
Baldwin Park .................No. 660....James S. Alexander, Sr. W arden .... 43.08
Malta............................... No. 661.. ..James A. Fritz, Master....................... 43.08
Henry Knox...................No. 662.... Dee McConnell, Master...................... 43.0!\

La Cumbre..................... No. 642.... Leonard C. Miles, Jr. Warden .......... 34.02
W. W. McKee, Past Master ............ 34.02

Ojai..................................No. 663....Ralph V. Armitage, Jr. Warden .... 39.12

Alta Loma......................No. 643 .... Alfred F. Peet, Master...................... 43.08

Oasis................................No. 664....Warren Currier, Master.................... 68.16
Otto Jos. Bradshaw, Sr. W arden

Lomita.............................No. 644.... William Preston Hall, Sr. Warden .. 43.08

Kaweah........................... No. 665.... Glenn W ood Baker, Sr. Warden...... 23.88

A. F . E. Irwin................ No. 645 ....James M. McQuigg, Master.............. 44.64
Arthur E .. Genter, Sr. Warden

Reseda ............................. No. 666.... Charles R. Willard, Master.. ............ 43.08
William K. English, Jr. Warden

Metropolitan.................. No. 646.... Cyril H. Steele, Master...................... 43.08

Meridian......................... No. 667.... Alvin Glen Low, Jr. Warden............ 43.98

Hawthorne..................... No. 647..:.Jesse E. Briley, Sr. Warden............ 43.08

San Gorgonio ................No. 668....Harry Alfred Watson, Sr. Warden .. 49.44

Damascus ....................... No. 648.... Charles A. Dunn, Master.................. 47.28

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND L ODGE OF CALU'ORNIA

J ohn P . Jarman..............No. 669....H ebert Pritchard, Master.................. 3.48
Clarence Sheffer, Sr. Warden
Eber Earnest Carter, Jr. Warden
George Petersen, Past Master

3Jn ~ranh 1£n~gr

Greenlea'f........'........ ~....... N~. 670.... Edmund B. Skinner, Master.............. 44.52

Morning Session

San Clemente................-No. 671....Bcrtram H . Latham, Sr. Warden .... 48.32
Laguna Beach................ No. 672:...William T . Lambert, Master.. .......... 47.60
Far WesL ......................No. 673....Dean Wilson, Master
Louis Arthur Gintzler, Sr. Warden
Albert S. Sandell, Jr. Warden
Howard 0. Taylor, Past Master

F riday, October 17, 1930.
. Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.

· Los Cerritos................... No. 674.... Herbert C. Goldman, Master... ......... 44.64
Modesto ...........................No. 675....Frank Chester Shaw, Sr. Warden..

349

7.44

.
..
Alt. a dena..............................
U. D..... William J. Stone, Sr. Warden........ 43.08
w·11
GI
. . .
.
.
I ow
en....................... U. D..... Thornton D. Webster, Master.......... 3.48
Harry Burres, Jr. Warden
Liberal Arts .......................U. D....Ira F. Thompson, Master.. ................ 43.08

By unanimous consent the annual election of officers
was deferred until after further reports of the Committee on
jurisprudence and the Report of the Committee on Finance
were presented.

REPORTS OF JURISPRUDENCE COMMITTEE
Membership-Forfeiture of Standing
To the Jf.·.w: .Gra11d Lodge ()f Calif ornia:

At 5 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30
o'clock F riday morning.

9. Your Committee on Jurisprudence presents herewith a proposed amendment to section 165 of the Constitution:
Sec. 165. It is the duty of every Master Mason to be a member
of some Lodge, but a non-affiliated Master Mason shall remain in
good standing for a period of one year after the date of his dimit;
provided, that should he fail to become a member of some Lodge
within said period of one year from the date of his dimit, he shall
· be deemed unworthy of Masonic consideration, and shall not thereafter be .entitled to a ny of the rights, privileges or benefits of Masonry.
Upon the r ejection of an application for membership the Lodge shall
return all amounts paid by the applicant.

'A nd ·Section 165 was amended by unanimous vote.
Annual ·Communications, Where Held
10. · The proposal to amend Section 11 of the Constitution, to
provide that the a nnual communication be held at the City of
Oakland 'in the year 1932, is approved in substance by yotir ··C ommittee o'n Jurisprudence, but we recommend that . the form of the
section be amended to read as follows:

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Sec. 11. The Grand Lodge shall hold its ·Annual Communications for the transaction of its regular business at the City of San
Francisco, commencing on the second Tuesday of October, at ten
o'clock a. m.; provided, however, that any Annual Communication
may be held at any other place in the State of California upon adoption by this Grand Lodge at any previous Annual Communication
by a five-sixths vote of a resolution so providing."

Adopted, and Section· 11 of the Constitution was
amended by unanimous vote.
Meeting in Oakland
11. We recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, that the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
for the year 1932 be held in the city of Oakland.

Adopted by unanimous vote.
Appeal-Trial Records
12. Your Committee on Jurisprudence, in accordance with the
mandate of this Grand Lodge, offers the following resolution and
recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that Section 207 of the Constitution be amended as
follows:
Strike out the word "thirty" in line 5, page 171, and jn lieu
thereof insert the word "ninety," in 1929 edition of the Constitution;
strike out the word "appealed" in line 14, page 172.
Strike out the words "and all cases of expulsion or suspension,"
on lines 14 and 15, page 172.
The section as amended to read as follows:
Sec. 207. An appeal may be taken to the Grand Lodge by either
party at its next succeeding annual communication, but not unless
a notice of such intended appeal shall be given to the Master, in .
writing, within ninety days after his announcement of the result of
the trial. Any and all additional evidence, which either the accuser
or accused shall desire to have heard on the appeal, shall be taken
and reduced to writing within sixty days from the day on which the
announcement of the result of the trial shall be made by the Master
to the Lodge and all arguments and· representations which it is desired to have considered on the appeal shall also be reduced to writing; and no additional evidence, arguments, or representations shall
be considered on the appeal unless the same shall be reduced to
writing and transmitted to the Grand Secretary at least sixty days
before the commencement of the next annual communication of the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

351

<;rand Lodge. In all cases, whether appealed or not, the Master
cause the Secretary to prepare a transcript of the record of
trial, and immediately transmit it to the Grand Secretary, together
with information of the appeal intended, if any there be. In all cases
where the trial was had in a Lodge other than the Lodge of which
the accused is a member, the Grand Secretary shall notify the Lodge
of which he is a member, forthwith upon the receipt by him of the
transcript of the record of trial.
Every transcript of a trial record, when prepared by the Secre-·
tary of any subordinate Lodge in this jurisdiction, shall, before its.
transmission to the Grand Secretary, be submitted to the Master of
the Lodge, who shall carefully examine the same and see that it is
fairly and legibly written, with sufficient spaces between papers and
testimony; and that it otherwise complies with the Constitution and
Regulations of the Grand Lodge; and said Master shall endorse his
approval ~hereupon.
When a trial is had in the Lodge of which the accused is a
member, or in another Lodge to which the case is transferred, the
Secretary cannot make any charge for serving the summons, or for
writing up the record of the trial, or for writing a transcript or copy
of the record for transmission to the Grand Secretary. ( 1925.)
~hall

Adopted, and Section 207 amended by unanimous vote.
Copy of Charges to be Transmitted to Grand S~cretary
13. Also that Section 189 of the Constitution be amended as
follows : At the end of the section add the following words: "A
copy of such charges shall forthwith be forwarded by the Secretary
of the Lodge to the Grand Secretary."
The s.ection, as amended, to read as follows:
Sec. 189. When any member of a Lodge (except its Master or
the Grand Master) , or any Mason residing within its jurisdiction,
shall be accused of unmasonic conduct, charges to that effect may be
preferred by any Master Mason in good standing; which charges
shall be in writing over his signature, and shall be presented to the
Master of the Lodge having jurisdiction thereof. If facts shall be
brought to the attention of the Junior Warden of a Lodge showing
any member, of whom his Lodge has jurisdiction, to be guilty of
unmasonic conduct, and if, for the period of thirty days following
the bringing of such facts to the attention of the Junior Warden, no
Master Mason in good standing shall have preferred charges against
S"Uch member, then and thereupon it shall become the official duty
of such Junior Warden to prefer such charges, in the manner io this

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

section provided as for a Master Mason. A copy of such charges
shall forthwith be forwarded by the Secretary · of the Lodge to the
Grand Secretary.

Adopted. and Section 189 amended by urtartirriotis · vote.
I

353

·PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3.i\2

•

.,•

Foreign I,.anguage Lodges
14. The Committee on Jurisprudence requests further time in
which to consider and prepare legislation to carry out the recommendation of the Grand Master with respect to the conferring of
'degrees by foreign language Lodges in this jursdiction.

That he was born at ....... :..... .'.......... :................................. , on the ....................
day of.. .................................. ; that his occupation is ........................... ,.... .-......
.............." .......................................... ; and his place of business . is ....................
..., ......................................... ; that he resides at..'. ............... ......., .............. :.. ,... ,.. ,
Date ..................,,,." ............................................ , A. L. 59 ......... ..
Signature ................................................................ ..
Recommended ·by Brothers:

(to be members of the Lodge)
Refers to:

The request was granted and the matter .continued .to
the next annual communication of Grand Lodge.
Adopted, and Section 247 amended by unammous vote.
Affiliation-Dual Membership
15. Your Committee on Jurisprudence reports that Sei::tion 122
of the Constitution must be amended in order to put in force dual
membership, adding to S~bdivision 2d the following:
.
"If the applicant be a membe.r of a Lbdge in another jurisdi~­
tion, a certificate to the effect that he will be given a <limit i'n case
he is elected to membership in some other Lodge, or that he desires
to retain his membership therein." Adding to the second subdivision
the words "or a statement by the applicant that he intends to retain
his membership therein."

Adopted, and Section 122, Subdivision 2d, amended by
unanimous vote.
· Application for Affiliation
16. Your Committee on Juri~prudence recommends that Section
247 of th~ Constitution (being the form of application for affiliation)
be amended to r~ad as follows:
.
Sec. 247. To the Worshipful Master, the ·wardens and Brethren
of.. .. ,.............~ ...................... ,..... :................... I.,odge, No., ............. , F. & A . .. M.
The undersigned respectfully represents that he is a Master
Mason in good standing; that he was last a member of.. ......;......... ;.:.:.,.
...........................................,Lqdge No ............... ; in the ................................;..... .
~£... .... \.~ . : ............ :....:.:...... ;.................. , from which he has honorably with~
drawn. (or) That he is now a member 0£.. ............ :.... :..................... :., .... :.
Lodge· N 0 •.... , ......... , .............. ~ .. ..... ,: .. of~ ..................... , ...... ~ .... ,.......... ,............ :.. ,,:
(If he is a member of more than one Lodge, here state the names and
locatio11 of same); that he intends to retain his membership in said
Lodges:
................................................................ Lodge No ............. ..
................................................................ Lodge No ................

Qualifications of Wardens
17. Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends that Section
137 of the Constitution be amended to read· as follows:
"Sec. 137. No Junior Warden of a Lodge shall be installed until
he shall have produced to the installing officer the certificate of the
Grand Lecturer. or of the Inspector of the district in which his Lodge
is situated, certifyirtg that he has personally examined such Junior
Warden-elect and that he is qualified to give the work and Lecture
of the First Degree and that he is thoroughly proficient in those portions of the Constitution and General Regulations of the Grand Lodge
which relate to the government of a Lodge ; and no Senior Warden
shall be installed until he shall have produced the certificate of either
the Grand Lecturer or the Inspector of the district in which his
Lodge is situated, certifying that he is qualified to give the work and
lectures of the First and Second Degrees, and that he is thoroughly
proficient' in those portions of the Constitution and General Regulations of the Grand Lodge which relate to the government of a Lodge.
If any Warden-elect fail to procure such certificate within sixty days
of election or such further time as may be, upon a satisfactory showing, granted by the Grand Master, his election shall be invalidated
and a special dispensation issued to hold an election for the place
of su.c h Ward,en; provided, however, that the Warden elected under
such dispensation shali not be the one who had been previously
elected and who had tailed to qualify."

, Adopted, and Section 137 amended by unantmous vote,

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

354

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

18. We also recommend that Section 54 of the Constitution be
amerrded to read as follows:
In the second sentence of said section, after the word "Masterselect," add the words "and Senior and Junior Wardens-elect."
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
DANA R. WELLER,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
JOHN . D. MURPHEY,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
GEORGE

L. JONES,
Committee.

Adopted, and Section 54 of the Constitution amended
by unanimous vote.

355

Masonic Employment Service
2. Your committee, on the recommendation of the Board of
Control, offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $9,300.00 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided into the following
donations:
To the Employment Service of San Francisco ...................... $2,400.00
To the Employment Service of Los Angeles .... ...................... 2,400.00
To the Employment Service of Long Beach .......................... 1,800.00
To the Employment Service of San Diego .......... .................... 1,400.00
To the Employment Service of Oakland-Berkeley ................ 1,000.00
To the Employment Service of Santa Monica ........................ 300.00
Total ............ .......................................................................... $9,300.00

REPORTS OF FINANCE COMMITTEE
Reimbursements of Boards of Relief and Constituted Lodges

To the 111. · .W. '.Grand Lodge of CaUfomia:
1. Your Committee on Financ·e has received and examined the
report of the Board of Control referring to reimbursements of
Boards of Relief and constituted Lodges and concur in its recommendations that the Boards of Relief and Lodges be reimbursed as
follows:
San Francisco ......................................................$2,686.74
Los Angeles ........................................................ 1,550.28
Sacramento ,......................................................... . 200.50
Oal<land and Berkeley ....................................... . 1,351.11
San Jose .............................................................. .. 147.50
27.00
Bakersfield .......................................................... ..
Ma·rin Lodge No. l'>L ......... :'. ......................... .. 397.54
57.00
Fresno .................................................................. ..
Sa·nta Monica ..................................................... . 154.00
50.00
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348 .................... ..
San Fernando Lodge No. 343 .......................... 260.00
Total ...................................................... $6,881.67
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $6,881.67 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Boards of Relief
and Lodges in the amounts as above set out.

Adopted.

Adopted.
Masonic History
3. Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the report of the
Committee on Masonic History and its request for an appropriation
of $3,000.00 during the coming year.
The report shows substantial progress in Masonic research, and
that all expenditures have been made upon conservative business
lines, evidenced by the unexpended balance of $1,200.00 from the
appropriation of last year. In accordance with our Constitution this
sum will no longer be available.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resol·ved, that the sum of $3,000.00 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the use of the Committee
on History during the coming year.

Adopted.
Masonic Clubs of the University of California at Berkeley and
Los Angeles
4. Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the report of the
Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of California located
at Berkeley and the report of the Directors of the Masonic Club of
the University of California at Los Angeles, and their request for
funds for their maintenance during the fiscal year of 1931, 1932.
We find that the maintenance of these Clubs calls for an annual
expenditure of approximately $20,000.00.

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The wisdom of the investment in our Club Houses has been
fully justified and we find that they are both being efficiently administered.
·
Your committee has carefully reviewed all anticipated maintenance costs of the Masonic Clubs at Berkeley and Los Angeles and
recommends that a tax of 15 cents per paying member for said main~
tenance of these two Club Houses. be levied for the coming year and
when the same is paid into the Grand Secretary's office, the total
amount so received from such levy shall be divided equally between
the Trustees of the Masonic Club at Berkeley and the Directors of
the Masonic Club of the University of California at Los Angeles.
We offer the following resolution a nd recommend its adoption:
Resolv~d, that the sum of 15 cents per paying member be levied
upon the membership for the maintenance of the Masonic Clubs at
Berkeley and Los Angeles for the fiscal year 1931, 1932.

Resolved, that a sum not to exceed $5,000.00 be, an d the same is,
hereby appr opriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray
the traveling expenses of the Grand Master.

Adopted.
Audit of Accounts
5. Your committee; employed Ruckstell & Land, certified public
accountants, to examine the books and records of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer, as well as those of the Masonic Homes
of California and Endowment Fund. These accountants have certified that · all books and accounts are correct. This audit discloses
that the net worth of the Grand Lodge on July 31, 1930, was $783,379.27, which includes 'Masonic Temple Association stock in the sum
of $588,800.00, a decrease for the fiscal year of $4,532.41. This de- .
crease is caused by a falling off in th e number of candidates and
because of increased appropriations and disbursements, many of
which are, however, non-recurring.

Adopted.
Expenses of Grand Master
6. Your committee has carefully considered the recomm enda tion
of the Grand Master with regard to increasing the allowance for
traveling expenses of our Grand Master. After due inquiry among
some of our Past Grand Masters we find that in each instance a sum
considerably in excess of the amount appropriated for the purpose
has been expended by them from their own funds. Inasmuch as a ·
Grand Master must give so liberally of his time in the discharge of
his duties, he can hardly be expected to supply his own funds toward·
the expenses incurred in traveling through our jurisdiction. And
w e do not believe that our membership desires that he do so.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

357

Adopted.
Library Committee
7. Referring to the request of the Library Committee for an
appropriation of $1.000.00, for the purpose of establishing a maintenance fund for the use of that committee; your committee is of the
opinion that the establishment of su ch fund is at this time unnecessary and therefore recommends that the request be denied.

Adopted.
P ortrait of Grand Master
8. Your Committee on Finance recommends that the retiring
Grand Master, Brother Charles M . Wollenberg, have his portrait
painted, present a bill to the Grand Secretary, who is authorized to
pay the same,' and that when the portrait has been painted, it be
suitably frame d and hung upon the walls of the Grand Lodge as a
part of the gallery of Past Grand Masters.

Adopted.
Retrenchment by L odges
9. Your Committee on Finance has read w ith appreciation the
remarks of our Grand Master, contained in his message, and having
reference to Lodges that are meeting their expenses out of the
mo neys received from dues, and tha't place in reserve for times of
stress and to meet obligations for the relief of distressed brothers,
the money r eceived from initiat ion fees.
Evei:y prudent M aster will r ecognize the w isdom of these words
of th e Grand Master and endeavor to so cond uct his Lodge during
these stressful t imes that the funds in his treasury will be sufficient
to meet extraordinary demands that may come from the distress of
some worthy brother or his dependents.
. Your committee heartily e ndorses a program of retrenchment
on the part of constituent Lodges during the present str ess, to the
end that a good healthy fin ancial structure may be mai ntained and
our reputa tion for Masonic charity pr otected.

Adopted.
Digest of Decisions
10. Y our Committee on Finance, a nd no doubt the entire mem bership of this Grand Lodge, appreciate the great generosity of
R." .W.".Brother J ohn Stewart R oss in volunteering t o compile the
laws cited in our Digest as r eport ed in the m essage of our Grand
Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

358

We believe the Grand Lodge should express its appreciation and
make provision for the publication of the Digest when compiled.
\Ve, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that this Grand Lodge appropriate from the General
Fund a sum sufficient to cover the cost of printing a Digest to be
prepared by R.'.W.'.John Stewart Ross in such quantity as the
Grand Secretary shall deem advisable.

Adopted ..
Masonic Homes
11. Your Committee on Finance has had under consideration
the report of the Trustees of our Masonic Homes, and the request
of the Grand Master that we give earnest consideration to their needs.
The two institutions are the pride of Masonry in California, and
we believe every thoughtful Mason in our jurisdiction would approve
of the Homes being run on a plan that will insure happiness and
comfort to the residents and allow the Homes to measure up to the
standard of like institutions in California.
We appreciate the statement of the Trustees wherein they say
that they do not feel justified in recommending an increase in the
per capita tax, and in conference with various Trustees this statement has been repeated. We feel that the Trustees are entitled to
great credit for the unselfish service they render, and the fact that
they expect to curtail expenses wherever possible in an endeavor to
hold down the per capita cost is indeed commendable.
With the feeling that during the coming year much thought and
attention should be given to the matter of curtailment of expenses,
we recommend that the per capita tax for Homes be set at twentyfive cents, as heretofore.

Adopted.
Committee on Masonic Education
12. Your Committee on Finance has had under consideration

the report of the Committee on Education. We note their request
for an appropriation of $8,000.00 to carry on their work for the coming year, but in view of the fact that there is a great difference of
opinion as to the desires of the Craft with reference to this work,
we feel that only the allowance of previol!s years should be made.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $5,000.00 he appropriated from the
funds of this Grand Lodge for the use of the Committee on Education for the ensuing year.

Adopted.

359

Assistance to Harmony Lodge
13. Harmony Lodge No. 164, located at Sierra City, California,

is one of California's earliest Lodges, having received its charter in
1862 and at which time its hall was built. The Lodge has endeavored
to keep the building in repairs, but is now confronted with the necessity of replacing. the foundation and is financially unable to do so.
Investigation shows that this hall is one of the old landmarks
and one of the few halls in the mother lode country which has not
been destroyed by fire. Harmony Lodge has a membership of only
thirteen and the brethren are striving to keep it alive.
Your committee has before it the request of Harmony Lodge
for an appropriation to replace the foundation of their hall, and the
committee feels that the cause is worthy of support. We offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that a sum not to exceed $250.00 be appropriated from
the funds of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of replacing the foundation under the hall of Harmony Lodge at Sierra City.

Adopted.
Reimbursement to Welcome Lodge
14. Your committee has before it a request of Welcome Lodge
No. 255 for the reimbursement of Grand Lodge dues for the years
1926-1929 inclusive, paid on Brother E. S. Garrett for the reason that
the Grand Lodge dues on this brother were paid by Riverdale Lodge
No. 496.
From i,1formation furnished, it appears that Brother Garrett
affiliated with Riverdale Lodge, the Secretary of that Lodge overlooking his demit. Welcome Lodge, having no knowledge of his
affliation, voted not to suspend Brother Garrett for non-payment of
dues. As a result, Grand Lodge dues on Brother Garrett were paid
by both Welcome Lodge and Riverdale Lodge.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resol!•ed, that the sum of $6.38, being the amount of Gra.1,1d Lodge
dues paid by Welcome Lodge on Brother E. S. Garrett for the
years 1926-1929 inclusive, be refunded to said Lodge.

Adopted.
Conference of Grand Secretaries
15. Each year in February in the City of Washington, D. C., a

conference of the Grand Secretaries of the Grand Lodges of the
United States is held. This personal aoquaintance and the discussion
of problems general to all jurisdictions has proven a great benefit
to the Grand Lodges.

:l6o

361

PROCEEDINGS OF T H E

GRAND LODGE 01'' CALIFORNIA

California, in the past, has not been. represented by its Grand
Secretary. Your committee approves of a suggestion made by the
Grand Master that we should send our Grand Secretary to this conference in 1931, and therefore offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption:
Resolved.. that an amount not to exceed $500.00 be and is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray the
traveling expenses of the Grand .Secretary to the conference of Grand
Secretaries to be held in the City of Washington, D . C., in February
of 1931.

jurisdictions within the State, and also the expenses incurred by Grand
Lodge officers or members of the Grand Lodge who may be traveling
by authority of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore, after the
same have been audited . by the Committee on Accounts.

Adopted.
Visit to Hawaii by Grand Lecturer
16. The Masonic Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands have requested
the Grand Lodge of California to authori ze the Grand Lecturer to
visit them during the year 1931.
Inasmuch as these Lodges are members of the Grand Lodge of
the jurisdiction of California, your committee feels that they are
entitled to receive instruction from the Grand Lecturer which can
only be obtained through persona! contact. We further feel that a
visit could he made to the Islands every three or four years with the
view of maintaining the ritual to a high degree of efficiency and
benefiting the craft in general.
The present regulations of the Grand Lodge provide that the
traveling exp enses of the Grand Lecturer ·s hall be paid only when
traveling with in the State of California. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that an amount not to exceed the sum of $500.00 be and
is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray
the traveling expenses of the Grand Lecturer to the Hawaiian
Islands.

Adopted.
Salaries
17. Your committee has given consideration to the annual
salaries a~d traveling expenses of the officers of Grand Lodge, and
recommend that the salaries for the following year be fixed as follows:
Grand Secretary ---------------- ---- ------------ ------------------------------------- ----------- $8,400.00
Grand Lecturer -------- ----·--·---- --·--·---------------------- ---·---------------·-------------- 6,000.00
Assistant Grand Secretary........................................ ...................... 3,000.00
Grand Tiler -------- -------------------- -------------·--------------------·-------------------·----200.00
100.00
Grand Organist ------------·-------------·--------·-··-----------··---:...................... ..
Chairman of Committee on Correspondence ............................. .
500.00
We also recommend that the traveling expenses incurred by the
Grand Lecturer in performing his official duties in visiting the various

Adopted.
Pay of Members
18. Your Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its
report indicating that it will rcquir.e $19,426.81 to pay the traveling
expenses of the officers and members attending this session. We
therefore offer the following resolution, an<l recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $19,426.81 be, and it is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, for the purpose of paying
the·'traveling expenses of officers and members attending this session.

·Adopted.
Grand Lodge Tax
19 . . Through resolutions previously presented, you have voted
special taxes as follows:
For maintenance Masonic Homes of California .... ,................ ,............ 25c
George Washington National Masonic Memorial Association ........ 20c
Masonic Club Houses at the University of California, Berkeley,
.
and at University of California, Los Angeles .......................... !Sc
making a total tax voted of 60 cents per member.
In addition to this, the Constitution provides for annual dues of
50 cents per member for the support of Grand Lodge and also for
annual dues of 50 cents per member for the Building Fund of the
Masonic Home. The tax, therefore, on the membership will be as
follows:
.
Grapd Lodge General · Fund .... :................. :~ .. :............. :... ;.;~.... ................ SOc
Masonfo' Homes Building Fund ................. :.. :..........................:.. :..... ,..... SOc
Masoni~ Homes Maintenance Fund.:....................:.... ._.............:.... :1 ...... : 25c
George··Washitrgton National Masonic Memorial Association ....... : 20c
Misonic :Club Houses ............'...... :·....... ::............. ::.:.. ::.:..:....... ::... :... :..... ,·... 15~
o; a t~tal Grand Lodge tax, payable as of July 31, 1931, of $1.60 per
member, ;»hfr:h exactly · agrees with the tax· levied at the previous
commuhlc'ation of 'Cfahd Lodge.

Adopted.
Expenses Grand Lodge Week Activities
20.· It has ·been the custom of the Grand Lodge, for some years,
to provid.e fo( .entertainment, at the exp·ense of Grand Lodge, for the
vrsitin~ d.elegates. ·This custom has been followed this year, and ·the
Grand Lodge Activities Committee has provided a most pleasurable

363

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

week for those attending, and has expended for this purpose the sum
of $3,350.00. We commend them for the character of entertainment
which they have provided and for the small expense incurred therefor.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resohed, that the sum of $3,350.00 be appropriated from the funds
of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of paying expenses incurred by
Grand Lodge Activities Committee in providing entertainment for
the delegates attending this session.

feels unwilling to make any such recommendation, nor has your
committee been able to determine t!pon any help either in the way
of suggestion or financial assistance. We therefore recommend that
no action be taken by Grand Lodge.

362

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Relief
21. The Grand Master has brought to the attention of your
committee the necessity which occurred during the year, requiring
him to extend relief to Past Grand Master Orrin S. Henderson. The
Grand Master has also conveyed his thought to your committee that
some definite appropriation should be made by Grand Lodge to
properly care for the necessary household and other p.e rsonal needs
of Brother Henderson and his immediate family. Your committee
is in accord with this thought, and therefore offers the following
resolution and recommendation of its adoption:
Resofrxd, that the sum of $1200.00 be appropriated from the funds
of this Grand Lodge, for the purpose of caring for the necessary
household and other necessary personal expenses of Past Grand
Master Henderson and his immediate family; the same, or so much
thereof as may be found necessary, to be expended under the direction
of the Grand Master.

Adopted.
Veteran Lodge No. 373 ,
22. Your committee has given long and earnest consideration to
a communication from the above Lodge, in which it sets forth fully
the embarrassing situation confronting this Lodge, over its Masonic
Temple. It has also ·interviewed its Master. It is probably unnecessary to recount the full history leading up to the construction of this
Temple and its present embarrassed financial condition, but it will
probably be sufficient to say that the present indebtedness against
the Temple is approximately $85,000.00, represented by serial bond
issue. There is not sufficient income from the Temple, including
that paid by the Lodge, to pay the interest alone, much less to provide
any funds for the retirement of the bonds. It was the hope expressed
by the Lodge tha·t .Grand Lodge. might be willing to .purchase the
building for the present existing debt and operate the Temple, with
·the thought that some day the .i.,odge might be ·able to redeem. As
much as we· sympathize with the brethren in this Lodge, and as
desitous as we are that some assistance be given, yet your committee

Adopted.
Budget
23. Your committee is of the opinion that it will be very helpful for future Committee.s on Finance as well as valuable information
for members of Grand Lodge to have, if we were to present and
have published in th.e proceedings an analysis of the income and ~x­
penses of Grand Lodge. With this thought in view we are presenting
the following:
The report of the Grand Secretary shows r eceipts from sourc~s
other than tl'lose which we are taking into account in this analysis.
These are of such a character that in some instances it is difficult to
estimate the amo.u nt that may be received and others that are offset
by expenses incurred, as for instance the purchase and sale of supplies and the amounts received and expended for s~rety bo~ds f~r
offi.oers of Lodges. Therefore, these items are not included in this
report, as they have no material bearing. The figures submitted are
in round numbers.
RECEIPTS

Dues from Lodges ..:................:......................................................$137,000.00
Interest, on bonds' and bank balances........................................ 12,000.00
Total reeipts ........................................................................$149,000.00
DISBURSEMENTS

Salaries ... :..........;., ....................................................:~ 21,250.00
Printing ac.d Binding.............................................. 6,500.00
Grand Lecturer expenses......................................
1,200.00
Grand Lecturer special expenses to Hawaiian
500.00
Islands ..............................................................
Office rent ................................................................ 4,lOb.00
1,350.00
Postage ..:...................................................................
250.00
Telephone and telegraph ........................................
750.00
Office expense ........................................................
Pay of Members ...................................................... 20,000.00
750.00
Board of Control ..................................................... .
800.00
Public Schools Week..............................................
Grand Lodge entertainment ................................ 3,000.00
400.00
Grand Lodge officers' expenses ......................... .
800.00
Gold buttons (50 years) ........................................
Miscellaneous unaccounted for items ................ 3,000.00
Total expenses incident to operation of
Grand Lodge ......................................$ 64,650.00

364

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

..

ANNUAL ELECTION OF o'FFICERS

APPROPRIATIONS

Committee Of! Hist9ry................~ ............... c•••• : •• :$ 3,000.00 .
Committe on Masonic Education ....... ,........... :... . 5,000.00
Boards of Relief ...................................;..... ,..0 ."'··! ..
7,000.00
Employment Bureaus ........................................... . 9,300.00
Traveling expenses of Grand Master ............... .
5,000.00
Traveling expenses of Grand Secre.t ary ........... .
500.00
Past Grand Master Henderson:.........:................ . 1,200.00
_H armony Lodge ..................................................... .
250.00
Masonic Club Houses ........................................:..: 21,000.00
George Washington National Memorial.. ....... . 2s;ooo.oo ·

.

, .The annual .. election of officers was -now ~ad, with the
following result:

'

Total appropriations ..................................$ 80,250.00
Grand Total expenses and appropria. tions ..............., ........................................ $144,900.00
Leaving a possible surplus for the
.
year of .................................. .............. .... 4,100.00
Which accounts for above amount of
receipts ............................................. :.......................... :... $149 ,000_:00
ARTHUR

s. CRITES, .

]. B. SPEAR,
JOSEPH M. ARGABRITE,
FRANK

c. RUPPEL,

The R. ",. w.-· .Jolin Stewa·rt Ross of El Centro 'Lodge,
No. 384 was elected Grand Master.
;The R.".W.".Rbbert B. Gaylord of Oakland Lodge, No.
188, was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R'.W".".Frank W. Mixter of Exeter Lodge, No.
424, was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W·.".James B. Gist of Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202,
was elected Junior Grand V..Tarden .
The v:·~ 1W. '.William P. Filmer of King Solomon's
Lodge, No. 260, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V.".W.".John Whicher of King David's Lodge, No.
209, was re-elected Grand Secretary:
·
·
'
. The V.".W.".Thomas· J. Baker of Union Lodge,_ No."
58, W<:!-S re-elected (;rand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the list of
appointed officers, as follows:

Gus. A. HuTAFF,
Finance Committee.

Adopte<;l, and then the entire report wa~ approved.

365

.,

.,

s.·

. Grand Chaplain, Rev. George Davidson of .Henry
Orme Lodge, No. 458.
Grand Orator, Leslie Learned of C~rona ·Lodge, No. 324.
Assistant Grand Secretary, . Frank G. Hobbs of Alexandria Lodge, No. 531.
Grand Marshal, Henry G. Mathewson of Argonne
Lodge, No. 514.
· · ·Grand Standard Bearer, Frank Augustus Frye of Silver'
Gate Lodge, No:- 296.
Grand S~ord Bearer, John Troup Moir of Kilaue·a
Lodge, No. 330.
·
Grand Bible Bearer, Charles E. Glidden of Sisson Lodg'e,'
No. 310.

367

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Senior Grand Deacon, Clarence H. Eckert of Holtville
Lodge, No. 425.
Junior Grand Deacon, Edward A. Reinke of Henry
Morse Stephens Lodge, No. 541.
Senior Grand Steward, Herbert C. Goldman of Los Cerritos Lodge, No. 674.
Junior Grand Steward, Frank Lamberson of Visalia
Lodge, No. 128.
Grand Pursuivant, ·w arren D . Gill of Wilshire Lodge,
No. 445.
Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson of J ewe! Lodge,
No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson of Presidio Lodge,
No. 354.

Past Grand Master Wollen berg relinquished the Charles
Albert Adams Grand Master's lapel button to his successor, and Grand Master Ross presented to Brother W ollenberg a diamond-studded Past Grand Master's jewel, in
the form of a lapel button. The customary transfer of lapel
insignia from Junior to Senior chair officers was made,
and at 2 o'clock, all business being now completed, the
eighty-first Annual Communication was closed in Ample
Form.
JoHN STEWART Ross, Gran d Master.
Attest:
JOHN .WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

366

M.".W.".Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master, was appointed Master of Ceremonies. and all the officers-elect and
appointed excepting the Junior Grand Deacon, were installed in due and ancient form by the retiring Grand
Master.
Past Grand Master William P. Filmer presented to retiring Grand Master Wollenberg, in behalf of Grand Lodge,
a set of silver, each piece being marked with a miniature
of our official seal.
John T. Moir, as spokesman for the Hawaiian delegation, presented the retiring Grand Master with a silk lei.
Grand Master Ross announced the appointment of
Charles M. Wollenberg as a member of Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Homes, vice Albert E. Boynton, ·term expired. He also announced the appointment of Dana R.
Weller as a Trustee of the Masonic Homes, vice James .B.
Gist, now Junior Grand Warden.

368:.

PROCEEDINGS OF 'J'HE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Constitutional Committees of Grand Lodge ·

Jurisprndence-Frarik M'. Angellotti, Mills Building, San Francis~o;
Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los· Angeles ·; Benjamin F .
Bledsoe, 639 Roosevelt Building, Los Angeles; Francis · V. Keesling,
deYoung Building,. San Francisco; J ohiJ D. Murphey, Courthouse, Oakland.; · ~raqford Webster, 121 Hillside avenue, Pied~ont'; . George L ..
Johes, Nevada City.
··
.
'
P.olicy and General Purpo$es-Wil!iam Rhodes . Hervey, Pacific' .
Southwest Bank Building,· Los Angeles ·;· George F.· Rodden, 17'7 Post: ·
Street, San Francisco;· William A. Sherman, Lombard and Battery streets·,
San Francisco; Albert E . Boynton; 155 Montgomery street, San Francisco; Will H. Fischer, 1107 Edison Building, Los Angeles; William H.
Waste, State Building, San Francisco; Claude H. Morrison, Firs.t Na-·
tional Bank, San Diego.
Grieva1ices-Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building, Los
Angeles ; Olin L. Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco ;
Charles M. Mannon, Ukiah ; William A. Sitton, Mitau Building, Sacramento; Frank B. Belcher, 510 Spring street, Los Angeles.
Finance-William P . Jeffries, 115 Winston street, Los Angeles; Frank
C. Ruppel, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; J oseph M. Argabrite, Ventura; Gus A. Hutaff, Dunsmuir; Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
• Credentials-William C. Hassler, 1085 Mission street, San Francisco;
Walter L. Berger, 4509 Arlington, Los Angeles; Earl Warren, Courthouse, Oakland; Chester H. Warlow, Security First National Bank,
Fresno ; John Irelan, Brawley.
Charters-Ralph A. Chase, 3339 San Marino street, Los Angeles ;
Henry Eissl!!r, Bakersfield; Norman G. Davidson, 410 E . Randolph
street, Glendale; Lloyd C. Campbell, 1419 So. Curtis street, Alhambra;
Earl Lee Kelley, Redding.
By-Laws-Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock Building, San Francisco; Irving J. Mitchell, 1127 W. 20th street, Los Angeles; Victor McLucas, 506 Adelaide Drive, Santa Monica; John Robinson, Sacramento;
Franklin Patlan, 1700 So. Second street, South Pasadena.
Board of Control- David J. Reese, Ventura; Robert F. Callender,
1128 West Kensington Road, Los Angeles; Frank M. Wise, 324 Tenth
street, Santa Monica; James R. Erskine, Box 974, Fresno; Eugene Elkus,
407 Bank of Italy Building, 485 California street, San Francisco.
Pay of Members-John McGehee, State Capitol, Sacramento; Joseph
Block, 156 4th street, San Francisco; W. W. McKee, 326 Chapala street,
Santa Barbara; Benj .. G. Wright, 740 S. Olive street, Los Angeles; Fred
Snidecor, Corona.

369

11.ccounts (all of San Francisco)-Louis Sutter, . Anglo California
Tru!\.t .Company, Sa:nso)Jl.e and Market streets; Paul Nathan, 311 California street; Edward E. Co~n, 27 Clay street; Otto G. FreyerlT)4th,
209 Post street; V. lj:. _Perry, 425 Mason street.

.
.
Retun;s:-:Robert E., Allan, 1290 Sut.ter street, San Francisco; Charles
D. Barnett, Santa Rosa ; Jacob M .. Bashor, Monrovia; Tho~as· Fo~ee,
Van Nuys; John S. Cbrey, Grass Valley.

Correspondence-Jes;;e M. Whited, Phelan Building, San Francisco.;
Martin Griffith, 265 East 43rd street, Los Angeles; Byron F. Hillhouse,
Woodland; Trustom R. Dinsmore; Eureka; Martin Ortlieb, 7th and "C"
streets, San Diego ; C. M. Hickman, Placerville; Henry Mottet, 1030
Leavenworth · street, San Francisco; Charles Ziegler, Harris and Frank
Building, Los Angeles; Bion S. Gregory, Hearst Building, San Francisco;
A. Cogliandro, 622 Montgomery street, San Francisco.
'

'

Libra1·y-Denman S. Wagstaff, 3035 Fillmore street, San Francisco,;
John E . Houston, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; Rudolph
Rosenberg, 742 22nd avenue, San Francisco ; Ralph L. Garnier, 1330 South
Van Ness avenue, Los Angeles.

Grand L odge Week Activities-Arthur Joel, Mills Building, San
Francisco; Presidents of Masters and Wardens Association of San Francisco and East Bay for 1931 ; Secretary of San Francisco Masters and
Wardens Association for 1931 ; Charles 0 . Munson, 663 7th avenue, San
Francisco.

Special Committees
Ritual-Thomas J. Baker, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Dana R.
Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles; William P. Filmer, 330
Jackson street, San Francisco.
Endowment-George M. Perine, 789 University avenue, Palo Alto;
Thomas Flint, H ollister; Wm. T. Lucas, Santa Maria; Ezra Decoto, 392
Bellevue, Oakland ; Wm. I. Kohnke, 686 Sacramento street, San Francisco ; Lemuel L. Test, 360 Oakland avenue, Pasadena; Julius Gabriel,
250 Broadway, San Francisco; Harry L. Simon, 512 Folsom street, San
Francisco.
Masonic Education-Irving Magnes, Easton Building, Oakland;
(others to be announced later) .
Public Schools Week-Charles Albert Adams, Chairman, Humboldt
Bank Building, San Francisco. ( Others to be announced later.)
Masonic History-Arthur M. Ellis, 1007 Citizens National Bank
Building, Los Angeles; Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building, San Francisco;
Mark Sawrie, 1061 Mariposa street, Berkeley.

'Tl

e: ~Er :;...- ~~ ~::s

-· oq
::s
....

00 "

z

t? . 8
OQ
Ul ~
:i::

::!'.

gl'1>0"~

~ ...

.,§n~c:a:::

§ "I:l ... e:o ~
Pl'"1rD8Q:.._,
~.., ' ..... ..
-()to ti
c: ,,, to ......
~

-

VJ ;:;;·

~ (')

s:-· IU"p ::s ;;;·
Pl

;>;'" 0

"'"'"

I

-~

-

~b

.... "' ~[
Ji"' -::: c :::r:
t.n
~ 0

0

w~ :'.!.a

::s ::s
-·

"Ij~
.... 0
Ill

=

=.

Ill

::s

-·~ ~
0

I';"~

-e~"

rD

!" Ul

i'1 ....
"'

'D

g

§

_...

i!:::

Ch Ill
><

"Ij

....._

"'

~~
g
oq

g. ;i..

I

f-..1ST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,
With date of Charters, Fees,· Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 5930.

Names of Lodges.

1
2
3
4
5

6
7

8
!l

10
11

12
13
14'

15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

.......

Places of Location.

i·J

~I

I

Town.

I

I
'

I Date when Charter
County.

was Issued.

I

California
1 San lt'rancis·co ..••.• San .Francisco •.•...
Western Star •.••• 2 Shasta ·•....... .... • Shasta ..•..........
Tehama
3 Saernmento
Sacramento
Benicia
5 Benicia ............ Solano
Tuolumne
8 Son9ra ........ • .... Tuolumne
Corinthian ...... 9 Marysville .. .. ..... Yuba
San Jose ...••••• 10 San Jose ••..•..•••. Sarita Clara ••.....•
Yount ........... 12 Napa ..•.. ••••.• • .. !Napa
N evada ••..••..• 13 Nevada City ........ !Nevada ............
Temple •.. ••••••.• M Sonoma .. ·..•....... !Sonoma ...........•
Eureka •..••.•••• 16 Auburn ..•....... · !Placer ........ .• ..•
Parfaite Union •• 17 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco . .....
Mountain Shade .• 18 Downieville ........ Sierra
San Joaquin •••..• 19 Stockton • .. .. ...... San Joaquin . . ..... .
Washington •••· · • 20 Sacramento
Sacramento .........
Hawaiian ..•.••. 21 Honolulu, H. T ...... Hawaiian Ter .•....•
Occidental ...•.•• 22 San Francisco . . . . . . . San Francisco ......
Madison . : • • • . • • • 23 Grass Vaiiey ..... .. !Nevada ......•.....
Mariposa • . • . • • • • 24 Mariposa ..... .. . .. • Mariposa . .. ......••
Georgetown • . . •• 25 Georgetown
.... El Dorado ••.......•
El Dorado ..•... ...•
El Dorado. . . . . . • • 26 Placerville
Trinity •••.•••••• 27 Weave rville ••.•.••. Trinity •....•• . ...•
IJolden Gate ••••• 30 San Franciscp .....• San Francisco ...•.•
Gold Hill •••••••• 32ILincoln ..•...••.... Placer .....•.....••
Ophir •..••••••• , 33 Murphy's .••••••••• Calaveras .. . .... ...

.........
·········
·······

........

. .......
..... ........
..........
. .............

············· ·
... ..........

.. ······

·····.....
....

April

19,

1850.

.

"
"
"
27,
"
"

"

"
"

"
Nov.
"
"
May

"
"

Nov.
May

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

II

"
"
"
"
"

6,

1851.

"
"7,

"
"
"

5,

1852.

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
1853.
"
"
"
"

"
"

20,
5,

"
"6,
5,

"
"
"

"

"

II

.,.;
..0.,.; -;;
...:
oO
A"'
_.,
.. <>!!
.,_ ~
.,.,
"' "' 1:-lfi
~A
100
50
75

" "'
::.~

"'

-<

-<"'

20
6
10

12
9
9
12
9
9

no . .....

75
2
50 ··· ···
50 ······
60 ······
50 ······
40
2
50 ......
100 15
30 ......
80 ······
75 10
80 10
100 2'>

53 ···· ··
50

.. .

.s"'
"'c

c

0

ti

i;:i

t;:J

12
9
12
9
12

0
".!

1-o

12
9
12
12

JO

5o ······5
50
JOO
50
50

5

9

10
1
4

12
9
9

30

ti
t'

!I

9
9
9

5

~
z

()

0

>
t:
".!
0
:0

~

u

9
35

,4
7

........
....

"

Plumas .......•. 60 Quincy •.••. ; .... . . Plumas ........... .
"
Live Oak .. . ..... 61 Oaklancl ...... . •.... Alamerla ...........
"
Folsom
45 Natoma ........• 64
Sacramento .......
"
Jackson
Amador ............
46 Amauor .. ;· , ·~·· ... 65
47 Forest •.......•. 66 Alleghany ••...•..•. Sierra .............
"
48 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ...• ~ .. :·: .. Sa:n Joaquin ...... ..
"
4!l Enterprise ..••••. 70 ·Yuba City ...•.•.. . Sutter
··············.
5()
Dear Mountain. . • 76 Angel's Camp •••..• Calaveras ..... .....
"
. ill Calaveras · . : ..... '. 78 ·san Andreas •••••.. ·Calaveras ......... .
"
52 Humboldt ••....• 79 F:ureka ~ • • • · ·, ·, .. · Humboldt .......•.•. Ju)y ,
:;;i Ione • • • • • • . • . • . • 80 Ione L •.• ,:. ·•• :": •.. Amarlor
.. .. ... May ·

43
44

.............
···· ·· ······

.

"

"

....

""

"
"

"'"

50 2.50
100 25
5
50
50 ......
50

"

50
50

"2, "
"
"
"
"
"4,
1,
8,

"

.."
"

1855.
1856.

80 ······

9
l~

9
. !l

88
l IO!l
117
80

52
471
2i-9
86

' 1}

J2

5 12
3
9
50 l'J" .- ii
75 ...... 18
50 ......
9

120

412
7i

71
8, 1856
~O' -· ·· · :\ 99 100
54 Yolo ............ 81 Yolo . . . • ...•....... Yolo .. ......•.••.•. • '.\fay
oO ... : ..
"
"
tH7
55 Vesper . . . . . . . . . . 84 Red Bluff .... . ..... Tehama ..... . .....•
9
75 10
"
"
45
:rn Naval . ... . .. .. .. 87 Vallejo ............ Solano ............ ~ "
9
{)
50
"
"
"
57 Rose's Bar ...... 89 Smartsville ....•.. . . Yuba ....... ·.. .... .
53
!l
35
5
" "
"
107
58 North Star . ..... !ll ~·ort Jones ••••••.•• Siskiyou ......•....
50
1 12
" "
"
54
59 St. Helena . . .. . .. 9:1 :3t. Helena .. .. ..... Napa· ... . . .... .... .
12
60
...
:
..
"
"
"
7fi
60 llenry Clay .... . . 05 Sutter Creek ...•.... Amador ........... .
9
55
10
"
"
"
215
61 Hornitos .......•• 98 Hornitos ........... Mariposa .... . ..•...
· 50 ..... . 15
"
"
"
6\1
62 Yosemite .....•.• 99 ~forced .......... .. Merce<l ........... .
9
60 .. ... .
"
"
287
63 Clay ..••.. . ....• 101 Dute~ Flat ... • ... . . Placer ............ .
50
5 11!
"
"
"
188
64 Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ............ Butte ... ........ .••
5:,
1
12
15,
"
"
6n LexiLgton ..•.••. 104 El Monte . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles .......• May
:?24
9
14, 1857.
55
3
27t
66 Arcata •••••••••• 106 Arcata ............. Humboldt .•.••...•.
50 101· 15
" "
"
369
67 Pajaro ••..•...•.. 110 Watsonville •••••..• Santa Cruz •......•.
12
50
10
"
"
"
4t
68 Chico .' ... . .....• 111 Chico ... . .•..•. .. . . Butte ...•... . . . ..••
9
50
51
"
"
"
22i
69 Summit .......... 112 Knight's Ferry .. ... 1Stanislaus .....•..•.
12
80:
5
"
"
"
261
9'
70 Bden ..••....••.. 113 ::3an Leandro . ..... . Alameda ...... ·. • ·
i5' 10
15,
"
"
45
i1 Concord .. • •..••• 117 Sacramento ...•.. . . Sacramento . .. ....• May
13, 1858.
30
5
72 Clinton •......... 11!1 lgo ..... ·: .... ..... Shasta . . ·: . .•...•••
too 50 15 'i3H
"
"
IB'i
73 Fidelity ......... 120 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ...•.
XO
5 12
" "
"
215
74 Alamo ........... 122 Walnut Creek ... . .. Contra Costa ......•
75
5 12
"
"
"
75 Sotoyome ••...... 123 Healdsburg ........• Sonoma ..........•.
so l Hi 92
" "
"
203
50 ..... .
76 Table Mountain .• 124 Cherokee .... . ... . .. Butte ......•..•.. .•
!l\
"
"
"
2-:1
77 La Fayette ...••.. 126 Sebastopol •..... ... Sonoma ..........•.
100•
20
121
"
"
"
297
78 Hermann . • ..•..• 127 .San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco .•.••• May
50
8
14, 1859.
9i
7!l Vis:ilia ••.••.••.• 128 Visalia •. .. . •. ..... ; Tulare ...........••
94
50
5
9i
.13,
"
"
126
80 Nicohus ......... 129 Wheatland .•..... .. Yuba ......... -... •·
30
5
!-1\
"
"
"
IH
81 Woo-ibridge ••.... 131 Woodbridge ..•....• San Joaquin ....•• ••
50
5
!ll
" "
"
82 Siueer!ty ........ 132 Greenville ......... Plumas ..........• •
168
75 ... .. :
91
"
"
"
83 Vacaville .. • •.•.. 134 Vacaville ••.•...... Solano ••...••..... ·• May
71
30 .. .. :.
11, 1860.
84 Valley .. ..... .• .• 135 Linden ............. San Joaquin ..... .'. r.lay
841
100 20
10, 1860_
85 Pacific •...••..•• 136 San Francisco ... ... San Francisco
100 25. 121 rn::i
"
"
"
86 Crockett ..•..... . 139 3an Francisco . .• ... . San Francisco •...•.

·1

!):

·1

1~1

- - --------·- -- - -- ·- -- - - - -- -

Q

~
tj

t'
0

tj

Q

l>.I

·o

. '%J
.'()

ii>

~
·o

~

z

>

.,,

.,,

-l

104
105

106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114

115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
i29
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151

Drytown ........ 174 Plymouth .......... Amador ........... .
A11tioch ......... 175 Antioch ...........• Contra Costa ..... ..
Phoenix ....•.... 178 San Bernardino .... ·ISan Bernardino ... ..
Mendocino ....... 179 Mendocino .......... Mentlocino ......•.•
Petaluma ......•. 180 Petaluma ..•...•..• 1sonoma ...•......••
Russian River .•.. 181 Windsor ......•...• 1Sonoma ......•.•.••
Arbuckle ••....•• 182 Arbuckle . . . . . . . . . . Colusa ......•..••••
Clear Lake ....... 183 Lower Lake ........ Lake ............ ..
Sierr:i Valley ..... 184 Sierra ville ......... Sierra ............ .
Claiborne ...•...• 185 Point Arena ........ Mendocino •.••....•
Evening Star •.•.• 186 Etna Mills ...•.•••• ,Siskiyou ...••••••••

.............
...........

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"

Keith ...•••...•. 187 Gilroy
Santa Clara .••••.•. Oct.
Oakland •..•.••.• 188 Oakland
Alameda •••....
"
Northern Light ••• 190 Millville •.••.••••.. Shasta ..........•.. Oct.
Marin ........... 191 San Rafael ••••.•... Marin ••••••....•.
"
Santa Barbara .... 192 Santa Barbara ..•.. Santa Barbara ....•
"
Ferndale • • • • . . • . 193 Ferndale
Humboldt •.••...... Or.t.
Mountain View ..• 194 Mountain View •.... Santa Clara •..•.•.•
"
Buckeye ......... 195 Winters
Yolo .•••....•.••...
"
San Simeon ...•••. 196 Cambria
San Luis Obispo ...•
"
Wilmington ..••.. 198 Wilmington •.....•. Los Angeles ••••.••• Oct.
Hartley ••..•••.. 199 Lakeport •......... Lake ..•.•••.....••
"
Truckee •....•••. 200 Truckee
Nevada ..........••
"
Silveyville .•..•.. 201 Dixon
Solano •.•...•••...•
"
Pentalpha ...••.. 202 Los Angeles •..•.... Los Angeles ..••••.•
"
Confidence •..•... 203 Castroville •..••..•. Monterey •...•••.••
"
Salina~ ....•.••.. 204 Salinas ............ Monterey •....•.•..
"
Oct.
Olivet ......••... 205 Corning ••••......•. 'rehama .............
Stanislaus ....•.• 206 Modesto
Stanislaus
"
Orange .............
Anaheim ........ 207 Anaheim
"
Rio Vista .....•.. 208 Rio Vista ......••... Solano •...•.•.•••••
King David's •••. 209 San Luis Obispo .... · 1San Luis Obispo .....
"
Friendship .•.•.•. 210 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ........ Oct.
San Benito ....... 211 Hollister ........... San Benito .........
"
So. San Francisco. 212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ••••••
"
San Buenaventura.214 Ventura •.......... Ventura ............
"
Oak Grove ..•.... 215IAlameda .........• Alameda ••••..•.•.•
"
Dorie ..•.•.•••••• 2161San Francisco .•.•.• San Francisco ••••..
"
Monterey •.••..•• 217 Monterey .......... Monterey ...•••....
"
Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore .......... Alameda ........... Oct.
Speranza Italiana.219 San Francisco ...... !San Francisco ......
"
Downey •....•••• 220 Downey •..........• Los Angeles •..•.•.•
"
Inyo ............ 221 Independence ......• Inyo ...............
"
Roseville ••...••• 222 Rosm·ille ............ Placer •••••••••...• Oct.
Baker~field ...... 224 BaK.ersfield ••.•..••. Kern ..............
Oct.
Brooklyn ...••••. 225 East Oakland ....... Alameda ••••......•
"
San Mateo ....... 226 San Mateo •••••...• San Mateo •........
"
Athens ..•....... 228, Oavis ............. Yolo ...............
"

..

···········
···········
···········
............
·············
···········
···········

··········

"

"

12,
11,

1865.

"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

15,

1868.

"

10,

1867.

"
"15, 1868.
"
"
"
"
·14, 1869 .
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
1869.
"
"
"
"
"

14,

1870.

"

14,

"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"14, 1871.
"
"

.. .. ..
"
"
"

"
"

11,

"
"
"
12,
18,

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
1872.
"

"
"

1912.
1873.

"
"

"

50
5
50
5
55
3
5
50
80
5
50
1
50
1
55 10
50 ..... .
50
5
50'. .....

501
100

35

]

30
3

80 ......
100
5
50 ......
50 ......
5
50
30 ......
5
80
30 ······
5
5
60
105 20
40 ......

75 ......

50 ......
50 ......
5 ......
1
50
80J
1
50 ......
301
1
951 ......
50 ......
100
5
100 10
75 ......
50 ......
105 35
30 ......
50
5
75 2%
100 . .....
80 ......
50 ......
5(1_ ••••••

9
12
9

9i

~I

12
9
9

12

Hi

15
12
9

12
27
9
9
12
H
12
9
9
9

12
9
9

12
9
9
9

12
II

12
12
12
12
12 1

1~1
1~1

20
12
12
12
18
9

34
lt>H

412
175
326
111
83

49
41
63
44

190
965
92
465
353
153
208
106
74
318
181
129
135
756
H3
275
125
H63
337
89
282
5;~5

144
302
320
644
628
161
134
407
213
84
263
497
676
288
125

0

t:iJ

>
z
tJ

t"'

0
tJ
0
i:'.l
0
'>:J
0

>

....t"'

"'.I
0
t:iJ

z

>

"'""
01

169
170
171
172
173
174
175

176
177
178

Alturas .......... 248 ,\lturas ............ Mo<loc ..... . ...... .
Adin ............ 250 Adin .............. Modoc ............ .
Landmark ....... 253 Esparto ... .. ...... Yolo . .. ..-.... . ... .
Reading ......... 254 R"edding .. .. ....... Shasta .-.... ... ... ..
W_e lcome ........ 255 Lemoore . : . .. ...... Kings · . .... ...... . .
Lodi . , .... . ..... 256 Lodi .......... .... San .Toaquin ..... .. .
Penrhyn •...•.••. 258 Penryn .... .. .. .... Placer .......•.....
EveFgreen . ...... 2i'i9 Riverside .......... Riverside . . ... ....•
King .Solomon's ... 260 1 Sa_n _Francisco ... . ·- San Francisco ..... :
Tuscan .......... 2611 W1 I hams ... ... .. . . . Colusa ...•..........

Lompoc .......... 262 Lompoc ............ jsanta Barbara .....
Hesperian ...•... 264 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara ....•
Orland ....•. .. .. 265 Orland ....•••••...• Glenn . -..•..••••..•.
North East ...•... 266 Fort Bidwell •....•• Modoc • •.•. •• • ••..•
Galt ... '. ......... 267 Galt •....••.......• Sacramento .•.•... •
Durant .......... 268 B erkeley ......... .. Alameda _-• .......•• -.
Olive Branch ..•.. 269 Tulare .........•.•. Tulare ··-··········
Snow Mountain •.. 271 Stony Ford ..... ... Colusa ... , ........ ·•
Pasadena ..••.... 272 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ...•....
Anchor ~ . . .... .. . 273 Compton • . . ... ... •. Los Angeles ...• . ...
Atroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obie po .....
Oakdale ......... 275 Oakdale ............ Stanislaus • .... •. .. .
Fresno
Selma ..........• 277 Selma
Soutl:l'rn Calif.... 278 Los Angeles ...... .• Los Angeles ......• ;
Hanford . . ....... 279iHanford .... .. ..... Kings ..............
Mad!:>ra ... ....... 28011\fadera ... ......... Madera ............
Mount Shasta •..• 281 A~derson ........•. Shasta ............. ·
Callayomi ....... 282 M1c!?letown...•..... Lake ...... .. .•. ...
South West ....... 283 National City ..... . ::;an Diego ......•.••
San Miguel ....... 285 San Miguel ....... . San Lnis Obispo ...•.
Paso Robles ...... 286 Paso Robles .. ....• . San Luis Obispo .....
Winn<>dumab ..... 287 Bishop ..•.........• Inyo •............•.:
Maxwell ....•... -.288 Maxwell ........... Colusa ...•........•
ElsinQre ......... 289 Elsinore ............ Riverside ..........
East Gate ....... . 290 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles . .. ....•
Santa .Paula ... ... 291 \Santa Paula ........ Ventura. ...........
Los Gatos ........ 292 Loe Gatoe .......... Santa Clara ......•.
Oran!?'e Grove .... . 293 Drange ...••••.••••• Orange ............ ·
Traver ........... 294 Kingsburg ....••..• Fresno ............ _
Mt. .fac kson ...... 295 Guerneville ......... Sonoma ........•..•
Sih•er Gate ...... 296 San Diego ••..•....• San Diego ..........
Dunsmuir ....•.•. 297 Dunsmuir ......•.•• Siskiyou •• ....... , .Liberty .... . .. .. . 299 1Santa Clara . . ...... Santa Clara ....•• • .
212 Redlands •...•... 300,Redlands ....••....• San Bernardino ...••
213 Ontario ........ . 30"1 Ontario .....•.....• San Bernardino ....•
?.14 Santa Lucia ...... 3021Kinge' City .... .... Monterey ... . ,. . •••

179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211

.............

Oct.

"

10,

1878.

"

"

Oct.

16,

"

"
"

"

~
80
40
1
70 ......

"

50

1879

1

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
15, 1880.
"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.
Oct.

15,
12,

1881.
1882.

50
50

"

"
"

"
"

50
30
30 ......
80 10
50 ......
1
30
100 ......
80 ······
6
55
7r, 1
50 i2
100 15
80 ......
3
50
30 ......
5
30
1
50
30 10
!)0
3
50 ......
55 ......
30 . .....
80 25

"
"

Oct.

"

"
.Oc~.
"

"
Oct.
"
Oct.

"
"
. ....... ... .. Oct.
."
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

..."
"
"
"

..

11,

1883.

"
"

"
"

16,

1884.

"
16,
"

"

"16,
"
"
"
"
14,
"

"
"
"11,
"
"
"
"
10,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

50
8
50 ......
50 ......
30 3

50

"

1885.

"

"
"
"
1886.
"

"
"
"
1888.
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

..

1890.

"
"

1
1
2
5

FiO ... .. .

1889.

I

!-I

. ~·
!l

12

50 .. .. ..

"

15
9
12

12

so 1

1884.

!•

!l

50 ... ...
1
75
50 ......
50
5
80 ......
50
50 ......

50 ······
50 ......

40, ......

12'

579
126
72
97
2u7
127
2\15
· 25
li51
1'39
85

0

161
247
133
54
74
740

18

211

\I

52
677
300

\)

12
1~

9
9

12
9
12
9
9
12
12
12
9
9
9
12

9
20
9
12
9
12
12
12

IO
12
12
12
9
9
9

9

.36

Cl

109

>

20!l

682
165
185
65
58
lil

82
120
132

89

1(17
972
307

210
228
IHI
133
672

;:I

~

tJ
t""

0

v

Q

l:ti
0
"'l

-

("J

>

....'zj
0
;i;

z

>

23:'1

245
406
226
124

e..>

-:i
-:i

231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240

South Gate ....... 320 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Aliaal ........... 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda ..•........
Alhambra ........ 322 Alhambra .......... ILos Angeles ...•....
Whittier ......... 323 Whittier . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles ....... .
Corona ...•...... 324,Pasade~a .......... Los Angeles ....... .
Consuelo ........ 3251Escond1do .......... San Diego ......... .
Needles ••.....•. 326 Needles •........... San Bernardino .... .
Long Beach ...... 327 jLong Beach ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Redondo .•...... 328 Redondo ....... , ..• Los Angeles ....... .
VallPe de France .. 329:Los Angele& ...... . . Los Angeles . .... .. .

"

"
"

''
,,
''

''
''
,,

Oct.

11,

1895.

"
"

"
''

,,''

13,

1896.

Oct.

"
Oct.
"

241 Kilauea . •. , •..•. 330 Hilo ............... Hawaiian Ter.....• ·\ Oct.
242 Pacific Grove ..... 331 Pacific Grove •...... Monterey •.......•.
243 San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro .......... Los Angeles ....... .
"
244 Alta .•.......... 333 Bridgeport .......... Mono .... . ........ :
245 Covina .......•.• 334 Covina ......... :. :. Los Angeles . . ..... . O<it.
011i.
246 West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
247 Fruitvale ••..•.•. 336 Oakland ........... Alameda .......... .
248 Carquinez •...•.• 337 Crockett •..•...•... Contra Costa ...... .
249 San Jacinto ...... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside ......... .
250 Fullerton .•...... 339 Fullerton •.....•..• Orange ........... . Oet.
251 Oxnard •.•..... .. 341 Oxnard ......•... .. Ventura .. ... .....• Oct.
252 San Fernando .... 343 Fernando ......•.•. Los Angeles ..•..... Oct.
"
253 Starr King ....... 344 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
254 Brentwood ..•.... 345 Brentwood .... . .... Contra Costa .... .••
255 Palo Alto ....•... 346 Palo Alto . .. ...... . Santa Clara ....... .
"
256 McKinley ..•.•.. 347 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ......•
257 San Bernardino ... 348 San Bernardino ... -. San Bernardino .... .
"
258 Seqnoia •..•..... 349 Oakland ........... Alameda .......... .
259 Palestine •.•.•.. . 351 Los Angeles ...•.... Los Angeles . . . . . . . Oct.
260 Sunset ...... •.•• 352 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
261 Pinole ........... 353 Pinole .. . .... . ..... Contra Costa ...... .
"
262 Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco ...... Ban Francisco ..... .
"
263 Hollvwood ...••.. 355 Hollywood ......... Los Angeles ....... .
"
"
264 Mill° Valley ..•.••. 356 Mill Valley ......... Marin ........••. . .
265 Buena Park •....• 357 Buena Park ........ Orange . .........•. •· "
Oct.
266 Golden Gate ...... 3581Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ......•.
267 Loyalton , •....•. 359 Loyalton : ..•....... Sierra ... : .........•
"
268 Ban FranciscCJ ••.. 360 San FranclBco ••..•. San Francisco .• ... ,
"
269 Fort Bragg •...... 361\Fort Bragg ......... Mendocino .•......•
270 Charity .......... 362 Campbell •..•....... Santa Clara ....... .
271 Berkeley ........ 363 Berkeley ... , ....... Alameda .....•...•.
272 Willit!.' ...•..••.. 365 Willits ....••••.... Mendocino ........ : Oct.
273 Las Palm as ... ... . 366 Fresno .....••...... Fresno .........•...
274 South Pasadena .. 367 South Pasadena . ... Los Angeles ... . , .•.
275 Unity ..... ...... 368\Glendale ...•....... Los Angeles ...... .
276 Ocean Park .•.. .. 369 Ocean Park .. ...... Los Angeles ....... .
277 Amity ••..•..•.•. 370 San .Francisco ...... San Francisco
"

••
"

",,

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

''

15,

,,

,,

1897.

15,

1897

'4

''

'"
"

''

,,

'~

100 15
50 .. .. . .
80 ···· ··
fi5
3
100
8
50 ······
75
1

130 ..... .

1ggl... i"2i

8a4
114
468

9
9
9
9
12
9
12
9
12
12

502
660
170

214

759

274
148

50, .. ... .
75 ····· ·

12

9

1g~\"""5 129

231
144
583

37
240
892
806
162
114

14,
14,

1898.
1899.

80 ..... .

10

18

'"..

""
"

100 ··· ···
50 .... . .
50 ... .. .
75;... .. .

12
12

9
12

l~l· · · i~

12,

460
259

9.
12

264

~

tl48

~
t:j

"

11,
10,
15,

''

",,
,,"
''16,
''
''

"
"
"

1900.
1901.
1902.

"
"
''
~'
,,
"
1903
"
"

"
"

80

12

121

~1··4~ 99 513
33\J
751· ··· ··
546
9
551
fl
80
1 12 1016

100 10
100. 10

12
18
12

100

9
15

~g1 ... i5 12
10

673
550

152
628
1386

372
158
1021

lOOj··· ···
30, ... .. .

9

13,

"
"

1904.

80 ..... .

"
''

",,

12

441

"
"
12,
"
,,
"
"
"

"
"
"
1905.
"u

501······
1001······
50
5

9
9

108

l2
0
9
JO
18

637

12

527

''

''

~'

"
"

75 ..... .
80
50

5
1

80

3
15

80

90

10
80 ..... .
100 25

9
9

12

75

0

>
t"'
0
t:l

Cl

tr:l
0

'1j

()

~

~:i:l

z

>

122
143
7()1)

522
523

41i

..,_,
""

29ll Coaliuga ......... 387 Caalirrga ........ . ... F'resl'lo "...........
29'4 Par'ni~sus ........ 388 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... ;
29;i Palos Verdes .•..• 389 Lon'g Beach .....•... Lo~··A:ngeles ........ :
296 finperfal' ....... . . 39.0 l'riip{lriar· ........•• : fmpifrial .......... ;
297 East 'Belt ...••... 3911Tuollimne .......... Tuotumn:e '. ........ '
298 Wciit Lake ....... 392 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles... . ....
299 B.al.4.er . : ......... 393 San. Franc.isco ...... ; San Fr~ncisco . .•... '.
aqo 1Umvers1ty ....••. 394 Los Angeles .•....... Los Angeles.........
301 l.\1rlock ......... 395 Tu·rlock ·. ·........ . .. Stanislaus ...•.... :.
:!02 Apollo~-: ........ 396 Alameda ........... Alameda .. .. . . . . . . .
3.0? ~:~~!;n~. Light .•... 3~7 Hu~tington Park .... ~~s"·~·n~ele:..•.... :.

.

.

"

"

"

·«

'-'

·"
~·

'f

"

Oct.
"
"
·•~
'
"
'.'
'.'

15,
"
"
::

304 F:rat~rnity ••••... 399j ~nn Jose ........... Santa Clara ........ 1 Oct.
30.5 Burlingame •••••. 400jBurlingame ........ San Mateo -· ..... ,..
"
il06 Bay View •••...•. 4(H Oi.klaud :.~ .... . ... Alameda • . • . . . . . . . . Oct.
il97 :Brawley ••••••... 402 Brawley ........ .. . Imperial ..... : . .. . .
"
3Q8 Yerba Buena .... .40~ 1 0aklan 11. .• ,, ..... .. AlamP.fa . • .. . .. . . ..
"'
"
309 Glend-0._:ra. , .••••.. .404liGJ endora ....... . .. . Lo~ .Aiigeles . . . . . . .
310 Moneta ...••....• 405 Los Angeles ... .. . . . Los ,~11geles ...... ,
"
311 Burbank'•.•••... .405 Burbank -. ...... . .. . Los Aiillel~s . . . . . . . Oct.
312 La Mesa ..••.••.. 407 T,a MP_sa ........... . San Iii~. . ........ Oct.
1
Madre ....... Los . AulfSlPR . ...... .
"
313 Sierra_ Madre ..•. .408;Sierra
314 Honolulu •.•••••• 409.Honolulu .. . . . . . . . Hawai: . .. .. .. . . . . . . .
"
31_5 Char_ter Rock .•••. _41U1Berlrnlev ....... .. . . Alameda .. .. . . .. .. .
"
:i 16 Perris ....•..••• .411-Perris ............ . Rh·erside .. .. . .. . . .
"
:in Calexico ••••••.. .412'Calexico .·....... .. Imperial .. .. . .. .. . .
"
3 18 W aucoba ..••••• .413 Big Pine. .. .. . . .. . Iny o .. . .. : . . .. .. . . .
"
:l 19 Arlington •..••• .414lLos Ari gel es.... . .. Los Angeles. .. .. . . .
"
:!20 S~lver Trowel. ••. •415\Los Angeles.. .. . . . r.,os Angeles .. .. .. ..
"
321 Lmdsay. ..•••.•• .416Lindsav . . . .. . . .. . l'nlare . . .. . . . .. . . .
"
:l22 Clovis ........... 417 1Clovis............. F'resno .. .. . . .. .. . .
"
323 Elysian ...•..•••. 418'Los Angeles.... . . . Los Angel es... ... ..
"
324 Upland •...•••.•• 419 Upland .......... . . San Bernardino.... . Oct.
1
:125 Kerman .....•••• 420 Kerman ......... . .. Fresno..............
"
326 Inglewood •••••• .421\Inglewood .......... . Los Angeles . . . . . .. .
"
327 Eagle Roek ••..• .422: Eagle Rock . .. . . .. . Los Angeles. .. . . .. .
"
32~ Yo~Ji •..•• , ....•.• .423, ~atts ... , ........ .. f1 o~. A ngclcs ........ . Q;~·
329 Ex~ter .••..••••• 424 E xeter . • .......... l'ulare . . . . . . . . . . . . .
"30
H oIt v1"11e • • .. • • .. 425 ,H o It v1·11 e .. .. . . .. . . . [ mpena
· 1 .. .. .. . . .. .
"
.o.
331 Mi<lw:>y ••••.•.• .4261Taft .............. . ~ern .. . . . . . . .. .. .
"
C)
•
~
•
•
.
' {
33_ Clnno Valley ..... 421 Chrno .......... . . . . Sa n Bernardino . . . . .
.
333 San Dimas ••••.•.. 4281Sa n Dimas ....... .. Los Angeles . . . . . . . .
"
3:l.J Pittsburg ••••.... 429 Pittsburg . . . . . . . . . Contra Costa . . . . . . . • "
33fi McClc·u<l ......... 43i"r McClou<l ... . ...... Siskiy ou .......... . : "
336 Alph~, . . ....... . . 431 Hid1m on1l . . . . . . . . . Contra Cost11 . . . . . . ..
"

1908
"
"
t.1 ,.

'"
''

"
"
"

.

!'

"

100 ......
100 10
125 ......
50 10
nD 5
180 50
100 20
100 ......
80 .. ....
nlO
1
J 1-0 ......

12
12
1i
l+

28f>
684
733
102
~I
68
9 12.'>.7
1~1
582
12
635
18j 206
12j 398
121 530

:.:..~ -

1·5, 1908
"
"
14, 1909.
"
"
"
"
!'

''

"
]4,
13,

"
l!lO!l.
1910.

"

"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
11,
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
J!ll I.
"
"
"

1~· 17,-iz.
"
"

"
"

''

''

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

501· ··;: ;
9
100 ;....
24 ·
105 .1 12
100 .!>
9
HO ~ 12
00 ... . : .. 12
105 1() 12
001.... ·: l 2
·()Q . 3 12
80 ... :, . 12
80 JO J2
80
12
ilO .3 10
7.5
5 12

4'15
4ti8
405
177
433
121
79ti
2f>2
126
100
2ti6
52_3
·90
185
42
381.i

?.

3-0 . .. ••.

I 05 ..... ·
9
105 25 , 12
501. .. .....
!l
50·.... :·.
ll
801 5 10
·5 0
3
9
fiO ... ...
9
86 1 3 15
8~11 .... " 12
$ 1•••• •· 1
f>O .. ....
12
il ... ."
l QO,.: .. ,. "l !i
.
. .-·
50 ... . , .
9
55 ,,.,.. ·:cJ2
i5I · I 12
50 . .....
9
75' ......
9

:1 ~9

l10
248
572
155
65
:1./2

32~
~~~

g

r1

-

UO
408
69
103
137
11 5
452

~

>
~'

b
tJ

~
~
'iJ
0

b
,...
d
,,

~
>

"'°

~

353 Park .••••...... .449 San Franci'sco ...... San Francisco ... .. .
354 Van Nuys ..•.... .450 Van Nuys ..... ... . I.Los Angeles ....... .
355 Montl'bello ...•• .451 Montebello ...... ... :Los Angeles ..... . . .
356 San Pasqual. .... .4521Pasadena ...... . .. · f Los Angeles ....... .
357 Bethlehem •.• . ••. 453 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
358 Crocket ...•....•. 454jDaly City-, .......... 1San Mate~ ...... .. . .
359 Golden West ....• .455 San Franc1sc·o ....... ,San Francisco .... . . .
1
:160 Ramcn111. ......... 45'7,Montercy
Paric . .. .. ,Los Angeles ....... .
:161 Henry S. Orme .. .458 Los Angeles ........• Los Angeles ...... .

362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397

,,''

''
,,

''
''

80

5

100

10

''
''

''
''

,,
,,

!iO

3

Ort.

14,

1915.

"
''
,,
''

''

''
''
''

75
3
100 noht
7fi 15
80 10
105 10
100 ... .. .
130 25

Riverbank ••.•••• 459 RiYerbanl!:. •....•... Stanislaus ....•.....
Mount Oso ••••••• 460 Tracy . . . • . • . . • . . • . San Joaquin .......•
Argonaut .•.••••. 461 San Francisco .•.••. San Francisco •.•••••
Paul Revere .•••• .462 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .••....
Morgan Hill .•..•• 463 Morgan Hill .•.•.... Santa Clara .•...•..
Alta Vista ...... .464 San Francisco ..••.. San Francisco .......
Center ..•.•••••• 465 Fresno ..........•.• Fresno
Libertas ..••..•.• 466 Bakersfield ••.•..... Kern
Culver City ....•.• 467 Culver City .•.•.•... Los Angeles ....•.. .
Rockridge ••...•. 468 Oakland ...•....•.. Alameda ..•.•••..••
Yorba Linda. .•.•. .469 Yorba Linda .•.•.... Orange •...•..•••..
Lincoln ..•...•• .470 San Franc:isco .•.... Sa.n Francisco ... . ..
Delta ......••.... 471 Stockton
San Joaquin .......
Maui .•.....•.••. 472 Kahului ..•.....•••. Hawaiian Ter..•...
Blythe .... .. ...•. 473 Blythe ..........•.. San Bernardino ..•..
Victory ....•..•• 474 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
America ••....... 475 Los Angeles ••....•• Los Angeles ••• •. ••.
Coachella ••..•... 476 Coachella ....••••.. Riverside ..•. . ..•..
Temblor •.•.•.... 477 Fellows •.....••.••. Kern ........•......
Thou.sand Oaks .• .478 Berkeley ••.•.••••.. Alameda ....••.•. . .
Golden Rule ..••• .479 San Jose .... . ...... Santa Clara ....•..•
Fellowship ••..• .480 Oakland .......••... Alameda. •.•..•.....
Mt. Davidson •••. .481 San Francisco ....•.• San Francisco •.•...
Clarenee F. Smith .482 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles .. . .... .
Bell ......••..••. 483 Bell . . .... . ......•.. Los Angeles ........
Albert Pike •...• .484 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ......•.
Chowchilla ...... .485 Chowchilla ......... Madera ...........•
Caledonia • . • . . • .486 Bakersfield ...•..... Kern
Vallejo ....••.••. 487 Vallejo .•.....•.•..• Solano .............
Patterson .•..... .488 Patterson ...••.•.•• Stanislaus ....•.••• .
East Bay • .••.... 489 South Berkeley •••.. Alameda. ••••.•.•...
Corcoran .•..•.... 490 Corcoran •••.••••••• Kings .......••.••.•
Woodstock ••.... 491 Alameda ..•...•••.• Alameda ........•..
Garvanza ......•. 492 Los Angeles •......• Los Angeles ........
Atascadero ..•.• .493 Atascadero .....•.... San Luis Obispo .....
Acorn ....••..... 494 Oakland •••....•.•• Alameda •......•..•

"
''

Oct.
Oct.

22,
12,

"

"

"
"
"

············ "
·············· Oct.

···········

··············

''

''

"
"
"
"
"
Oet.
"
Oct.
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1915

1916

"
" "
"
"
"
"
" "
11, 1917.
"
"
"10, 1918.
"
"
"
"
"
"16, 1919.
"
"
"
14, 1920.
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "

12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

163
511
245
267
3!12
300

:!63
548
248
i24

50 ......
9
80
6 12
80 ...... 12
100 10 12
1
9
50
105 ...... 12
9
80 ······
100 ...... - 12
100 ...... 12
100 10 12
50 ...... 12
100 10 12
80 ...... 12
5 12
50
5
9
75
10
12
80
9
100 25
9
50 ......
100 ...... 15
5 15
100
75 ......
9
l
12
80
105 ...... 18
80 ......
9
9
85 ······
75 15 12
1 12
50
100 ...... 12
9
60 10
75
2 12
80 .. .... 12
75 10 12
80
1 12
9
80 10
100
5 12
80 25 12

67
185
372
590
98
314
336
260
258
396
146
327
314
117
59
236
416
88
152
357
295
223
319
216
189
191
58
161
244

0

~
z

tJ
t'
0
tJ
0
t<.1
0
"'l
Q

~
.....

"'l
0
~

z
.....

>

81

288
88
162
164
45
277

toO
00
toO

"
"
"

. 413 Cupertino : : ...... 5101Cupcrtino .......... 3anta Clara ........ .
414 Sunnyvale·::.: ... 511 Sunnyvale .. , ·.. :..... Santa Clara ........ .
415 Palms ... '.;.;;.: .512[Palms ........... ._ .... Los Angeles .. : ..... .
416 Cahui>nga ........ 513\Los Angeles .... ..... ... f"is Angeles ......... .
417 Argonne . : ; ; . : ; .. 514 San Francisco ..... San FrancisfO ..... .
418 Vernon Square:: .. 5151 Los · Angeles · .. : . : . Los An.gel es: ....... .
419 Taft . : . : : : .. ; . : .516 1Taft . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kern .............. .
420 Mount Ver'non ..•. 517!San Francisco ...... 'San Francisco ..... .
421 La Jolla ... :.: ... 518,SanDiego ... :: .. : .. San Diego ........ .
422 Euclid .... : : . : : .. 519[Los Angeles ....... : Los Angeles ..... . . .
. 423 Ionic ... ::::::::.520:T,os Angeles ... : ...• Los Angeles:: .. : .. .
424 ·Piedmont ..... : .. 52llPiedmont ·:.: .. :: .. . \lam'l)da · ... :: ..... .
425 S11nrise· .. ::;;;::.522Los Angeles ... : ... : Los Angeles:: ..... .

426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444

Oct.

12, 1922
,,,
,,
,,
''
,,
''"
,,
''
"
"
" ."

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

Bellflower ....... 523 Bellflower .......... J Los A11gelcs ........ October
Catalina I~land ... 5241Avalo~ .. ·: ......... ILos Angel?s ........
"
Geo. 'Yashmgton .525 San ~,ranc~sc_o : ·: ... ~an Franc~sco ......
Bay City •.••..... 526 1San· J<rancrsco ...... San Franc1sco . . . . .
"
Covenant ........ 527: Los Angeles ,, . ·.. : ... Los Angeles .......
"
Beverly Hills.:: . . 528IBeverly Hills ....... Los Angeles_: .......
"
Loyalty ' ...••... 529 1Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
"
Sun Garden ·; ..••• 5301Fresno ............. Fresno ...... ·.... ·...
Alexandria ...... 531 San Francisco : : • : .. San Francisco : .....
"
Smyrna ......... 532 1Ceres ......... : : : .. Stanislaus ·... : . •...
"
Azure .. : .•.....• 5331Fullerton ...... : ... Orange .... : : . : . : ..
",
Forest .Hill .. :: ... 534 San Francisco· ...... San Francisco · .' .....
Alex. Hamilton ... 535 Los Angeles ·.. ·. ·. ·. '. .. Los Angeles . '. : ·. '. '. '. .
"'.'
Seal Rock ........ 5361San Francisco'.".: ... San Francisco .. : .' ..
Utopia .......... 537 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
"
Ascot- ...•.•..... 5381 Los Angeles ·:-. . : : ... Los Angeles . ·.. ·.. ·. ·..
"
Belvedere ......... 539 Belvedere ......... Los Angeles·::.:.:.
Queen Beach ...•.. 540,Long Beach:: ... ; : ; . Los Angeles.::.:-.:.:. October
Henry Morse
·
I
Stephe~s ...... 541 Berkeley ........•.•. Alameda ......... : : .
"
44i> L;inkersh1m ...... 542i North Hollywood .... Los Angeles .. ·. '. '. '. '. ..
'·'
44() Signal ..... ·..... 543:Long Beach:.: ...... Los Angeles. : : : : . : ..
"
II
447 Glend_ale · . '. '. ·. ·.. ·.-.544 Glendale .. : ..... :: .. Los Angeles-.:::.: ...
448 Jonathan .. : ...... 545 1San Fran.cisco ....... San Francisco ... '. ...
"
1
449 San Gabriel ...... 546,San
Gabriel. ........ Los Angele!>'.·. ·.". .. ·•..
"
450 Arcadia .. : . ..... 547j Arcadia ....... :: ••. Los Angeles .........
"
451 Triangle ... ;, : . .. 5481 Venice .......... ;.: Los Angeles .........
"
452 Justice ....... ; •. 549San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
"
n
453 Seaport ..•••...•. 550 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
454 Lakeshore •••••.. 551 10akland .... , ........ Alameda .....•......
"
455 Semper Virens .... 552 Eureka .............. Humboldt ...........
"
456 Golden City .•..•. 553.Sari Francisco .....•• San Francisco .......
"
II
457 Educator ........ 554:San Francisco ........ San Francisco .......
458 White Pine ....••. 555 Weed ............... Siskiyou .........•..
"
459 · Fafr:l'ax .......... 556 Fairfax-: ............ -Mnrin .............. ;
-"
460 Hermosa ......... 557 j Hermosa Beach ....... Los Angele~ .........•
"

"

12,

][122

"

"
"

.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

...

"
"
"
"
"

'·'

"

11,

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
''
"
II

"
"
"
"
"
"
'·'

"
"
"
"

"

"
"
1923

"
"
"

II

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

II

"

"

511 .....
80 4Y2
lt 0 10
100 ,5
8.11 ......
100 ......
80 10

IGO......

10 ......
100 10

i-o .s

10010

55 ......
100 ......
100 10
.100 IO
50 , .....
125
5
100 nof11

80 ......

80
5
70 ......
100 ......
55 10
80 10
100 10
100 10
80 30
80 ......
80 ......

!l
12
8
12
12
12
9
9
12

\1,

12

\JI

15
12
1.21
\.)

216

91
12
1
10,

188

12
12
12
I~

lHl

91
9
9
9

419
212
202
120

9

112
HIS
·325
3H
33\l
·1µ7
126
287
261

155
120
298
186
277
231
175
327
130
65
183
112
113

80
9
5
100
9
5
80 ......
9
80
5 18
80
Ii 12
80 20
9
12
55 .....
75
5 15
80 2.j 12
100 .2.5 - 12
100
5 15
75
12
5 12
80
80 ··--··'\ 12
9
551
2 12
211

gg ···i·o

\.JI
9,

264
223
313
429
168
141
108
11~

157
158
20"1
120
83
107
91
94
151

212

0

;:;

>

zti
t"

0
ti
0
~

0
"1
()

>
t"
H

"'!

0

::0

z

:;;:

w

00
01

475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483

484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
496
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516

.......

..

Oct.

16

1924

"

"

"

"
"

I

Security ...•.•••. 581 Bakersfield .......... Kern ...............
Rialto ....••.•... 582 Rialto .............•. San Bernardino •....
Wasco ..•......•. 583 Wasco .............. Kern ...............
Harding ....•.••. 584 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........
Manchester ..•.•. 585 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .......•.
Garden Grove ••..• 586Garden Gr-0ve ....... Orange ..............
Valley Forge ....• 587,Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
El Sereno .....•.• 588,Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .....•...
Kauai ..•.....••. 589Lihue ............... Kauai, T.H ..........
Compass ••...•..• 590Pomona ...•......... Los Angeles .........
1
Escalon .......•.. 591 Escalon ............. San Joaquin ..... , ...
Tujunga •........ 592 Tujunga ............. Los Angeles .........
All States .•..•••. 593 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles .........
Service .......... 594 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles .........
Alexander Graham
I
~...,
~,- .JK?
Bell ........... 5!J5 Los Angeles ••••••••• Los Angeles ....... ·..
Guardian ......•• 596 South Gate ......•... Los Angeles .........
Truth ........... 5971Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
Pearl Harbor ..... 598Honolulu ............ Oahu, T. H .......••.
Carmelita ........ 599 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles .........
Lynwood ........ 600Lynwood ............ Los Angeles .........
Grizzly .......••. 601· Portola
Plumas .............
Melrose ••....•.. 602 Los Ang~i~~ · : : : : : : : : Los Angeles ..... ~·.
Dimond .....••... 603 Oakland
Alameda •........•.
Jubilee ........•. 604'Santa An~·········· Orange .......... ~ ..
Gl~ssell Park ..... 605 Los Angeles· : : : : : : : : Los Angeles ........
SoJourner ........ 607 Monrovia .......... Los Angeles ....•..•
Granada ......... 608 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles .....••.
Provident ..•..•. 609 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ........
Elmhurst ........ 610 Oakland ............ Alameda
Owensmouth ..... 611 Owensmouth
Los Angel~~ · : : : : : : : :
Temple City ...... 612 'Ilemple ............ Los Angeles ...•.•.•
Three Pillars ..... 613,Sacramento ......... Sacramento ....••.•
Larchmont ....... 614 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ...•••..

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

James Madison ... 572 ',os Angeles ......... Los Angeles ..•...••.
Hillcrest ........ 57a 3erkeley ............ Alameda ..•..•.••...
S. W. Hackett .... 574~San Diego .... ~ ..... San Diego ...•......
Fort ~rook .•••... 57;J1 !"all R_iver Mills .... Shasta: ......••••...
El CaJon Valley .. 576El CaJon ........... San Diego ...•.•....
Sunnyside ..•..•. 5771Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .....•.•.
Progressive •..•.. 578 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .......•.
Warren G.
Harding ...... ,579,North Sacramento ... Sacramento .•••••••••
Santa Maria .•.... 580.Ramona ............. San Diego ........•.

"

"
"
"
"

"
"

O!'t.

16, 1924

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
" "
" "
" "
" "
15, 1925
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "

80 10
80 .....
80 ......
50 1
50 ......
100 4Y2
100 15

9
12
9
12
12
9
9

153
55
194
65
90
300
257

501 ...... 1 12

117
54

100 ......
55
80 ......
105 25
80 20
50 1
80 12~
80
75 10
70 2
50 ......
50 3
80 ......
75 ......

121
9
12
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
9
9
9

12
80 5
95 ......
9
12
130 50
12
80 15
100 15
' 12
80 ......
9
50 10
9
100 10
9
12
60 1
50 1
9
9
80 . .....
80 ..... 12
9
80 5
9
75 10
12
80 1
75 1
9
50 .... 12
9
10025
18

1vo

184
75
83
147
246
94
218
112
88
136
64
82
278
270

0

::u

>
z
tj

r<

0

tj

143
~07

90
125
147
120
88
138
170
142
236
112
213
104
125
121
82
112
188

0
tr:J
0
'zJ
("l

>
r<
....

'zJ
0

::u

z

>

""_,
00

534
535
536
537
538
539
!i40
541
542
543

1

N ori:nal Heights ... 632,San Diego . ....... . .. San Diego. . . . . . . . . . .
Poinsettia •.•.••. 633 San Buenaventura ... . Ventura. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Victorville ..•.... 634jVictorville ... ...... . San Bernardino. . . . . .
Riverside ........ 635 Ri rnr side ........... Riverside.. . . . . . . . . .
John Marshall .... 636 1 Los Angeles .... ..... Los Angeles.........
Palisades ....•.... 637[Santa Monica ....... . Los Angeles. . . . .....
Tndi:rn Rocle. ..... 63SIBerkPley ............ Alameda............
Composite . . ...... 639 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.........
Veritas .......... 640!-San Francisco. . . . . . . San Francisco. . . . . . ..
James A. Foshay .. 641 Los Angeles . ...... . . Santa Barbara.......

344
545
!546
547
MS
549
550
551
552
553
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
56-1
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577
578
579
580

"
"
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

La Cumbre ..•.•.. 642,Santa Barbara ..... . . Los Angeles ........ .
Alta Loma ...•... 643 Signal Hill .......... Los Angeles ....... . .
Lomita ......•... 644 Lomita .. ... . .... ... Los Angeles ....• .. ..
A. F. E. Irwin .... 645 San Pedro ......... . . Los Angeles ...... ...
Metr:ipolitan ••.• . 646 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
Hawthorne ..• • ... 647 Hawthorne . ......... San Bernardino .... ..
Damascus ...•.... 64S San Bernardino ..... . Los Angeles .........
Flor.ince .....•... 649 Florence ............ Los Angeles .. .. .....
La Brea ... ..•.• .. 650 Los Angeles ......... San Mateo ......... .
Menlo Park ...... 651 Menlo Park .•••... . . Los Angeles .........
Crescenta Valley .. 652 Montrose ............ San Bernarllino . ... . .
Fontana ...•..... 653 Fontana ....... . .... . Los Angeles ...... .. .
Jordan ....••.... 654 Los Angeles ... .. ... . Los Angeles ........ .
Monte Vista .•.. . . 655 Long Beach .. .. ..... Los Angeles ... . .. . ..
Citro! . .......... 656 Brr a . . .............. Orange . ......... . . . .
John D. Spreckels. 657 San Diego ....•.. . . .. San Diego ..... . .... .
Livingston •..•... 65S Livingston ... ..... . . Merced ...•.••• . ••.•
La Habra . .... .... 659 T,a Habra .• . .... .... Orange .............
Baldwin Park .• ... 660fBaldwin Parle. ...... Los Angeles ..... . ...
Malta ........ . . 661 1Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ..... . ...
Henry Knox . . . . . 662 Los Angeles .... . ... . Los Angeles ....... ..
Ojai ............ 663 O.iai . ..... ..... . . ... Ventura ....... . .. . . .
Oasis ........... 661 El Centro ........... Imperial .. ....... .. .
Kaweah ..... .. . 665 Woodlake ... .. . ..... Tulare . .. .. .... .....
Reseda ......... 666 Reseda ............. . Los Angeles .... .. .. .
Meridian . . . . . . . 667 Glendale .. . ...... .. . Los Angeles . . ....• . .
San Gorgonio. . . . 66S Banning . ..... .. . ... Riverside ... . .. .. .. .
John P. Jarman .. 669 San Jose ....... . . . . . Santa Clara . . .. .... .
Greenleaf ..... .. 670 Whittier . ........... Los Angeles . ... . . . .
San Clemente . . . . 671 San Clemente . ..... . Orange ...... .. .. . ..
Lagnna Beach • . . 672 Laguna Beach . ... .. . Orange ......•. .. ... .
Far West ......•. 673 San Francisco . . .. ... San Francisco . . . . . ..
Los Cerritos . . • . . 674 Long Beach .... .. ... Los Angeles ... .. ... .
1
Modesto ........ 675,Modesto
............ Stanislaus . . ... .. ....
Willow Glen .. .. , .676.Willow Glen ... .. ... Santa Clara .........
Liberal Arts .. .. . . 677 jLos Angeles . ........ Los Angeles ... . .. ...
Altadena· ......... 67S(asadena .. ... . . . .. · 1Los Angeles . ........

"
"
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

60 ......
100
55 10
50 ......
80
5
SO......
SO
5
100 10
100 . IQ
105 20

Oct.

14, 1926

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
Oct. .
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

."

" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
11, 1928
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"

"
"
10, 1929
" "

"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"

It

12

27

so······
sol 5
10025
sol 3

12
12

105 .. ..

16, 1930

I

156
1 C'4
87
102
106
W2
77
104
65
73

100,.. ....
75 ..... .

5515
75 4%
10010
75 4~
55 5
55 10
75 ······
50 ......
50 1
l<O .. ....
50 ......
50 ·· ····
50 ......
100 ......
100 10
75 ···· ·
100 .11111
/.i ......
75 ......
95 ······
75 1
50 5
55 ......
100 ······
I
50
75 10

13, 1927

"
"
"
"

121
12!
g[
9
9
12
12
9

50 ······
50 ······
80 ······

so .......

9

65
224
90
98
1.1 0
63
142
155
157
61

12

91

9
91
91

72
16
In
178
225

9
9
!I

9
9

9

121
12/
151
g.
12/

91

!}I
15
12
10!
9

1S'
12/

54

122
64
86
87
45
6L
39
62
1 ~2

91
91
91

9,
12
9'
9

9·

10!
12

I

Total membership, 1930 returns ........ ..... ... ... 142,062

52
55
90
35
43
57
56
64
51
26
59

0
:0

z>

ti
t"'
0
ti
0

I."]

0

"J

()

>

t"'

H

"J

0
:0

z

ii=

Co>
00

'°

39

May

47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63

Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff .... Placer ......... .. May
Grass Valley . . . .. . Grass Valley .. .... Nevada .... .... . . May
Lebanon ... .... ... San Francisco ... . . San Francisco . .. . May
Rough and Ready . . Rough and Ready. Nevada; . ...... ... May
Franklin .......... Sacramento ...... . Sacramento ...... . May
Saint James ...... Jamestown ...... . Tuolumne ........ May
Geo. Washington .. . Chinese Camp .... Tuolumne ........ May
Iowa Hill ......... Iowa Hill .... .... Placer ......... .. May

61
69

Minnesota ..•.••. Minnesota ...... . 'Sierra ........... May
Ind. Royal Arch .. Marysville .... .. Yuba . . •........ May

69

Corinthian .....•. Marysville ...... Yuba .. ......... May

71
72
73

Nebraska .....•.. Michigan Bar ... . Sacramento ...... May
E. K. Kane ...•.•. Nevada .. ... .... Nevada ... . ..... May
Tyro .....•..•..• Drytown ........ Amador ......... May
Franklin ....••••• Meadow Valley ... Plumas ......... May
74 Wisconsin Hill .... Wisconsin Hill ... Placer ....... . .. May
75 Mountain Forest .. Eureka North .... Sierra .. . ........ May
77 Petaluma ....•... Petaluma ... . ... . Sonoma . ........ May
82 Mountain .....•.. Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne ....... May
83 Rising Star ....••. Forest Hill ... . ..• Placer . .••..•••• May
85 Indian Diggings .•. [ndian Diggings .. El Dorado ..... .. May
86

Saint Louis ....••• Howland 's Flat ... Sierra . . ....... . May

88
88
90
92

Unity ..•.....•• , Orleans Flat ..... Nev ada . . ....... May
Quitman ......•.. North Bloomfield. Nevada ......... May
Polar Star ....•... Poorman's Creek. Plumas ......... May
Acacia .......••. Coloma • • • • • • • • • ~~l Dorado. • . . . • . May

Q3

Caymus .....••••. Yountville ...... Napa . .... ..... . May

94 Mount Hermon .••. Elizabethtown ... Plumas ......... . May
96 ..3t. John's ••.••••• Yreka ........... Siskiyou ......... May
97

Jefferson . .. .•.•... La Porte ...•..... Plumas ........ . . May

3, 1854 June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
3, 1854 Oct. 15, 1897 Surrendered.
3, 1854 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
3, 1854 June 29, 1857 Revoked.
3, 1854 Nov.,
1864 Surrendered.
3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
2, 1855 F eb. 20, 1857 Surrendered.
8, 1856 Sept. 15, 1919 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
3, 1855 Oct. 29, 1857 Surrendered.

2, 1855 1.M.ay
2, 1855 IMay

14, 1859 Surrenc!ered.
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.
69.
2, 1855 Dec.,
1874 Consolidated with Marysville No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
2, 1855 Oct.
15, 1887 Consolidated wit h Ione No. 80.
2, 1855 Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
15, 1857* . . • . . . . . . . . . . . Charter never issued.
3, 1855 Aug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
18, 1861 Surrender ed.
8, 1856 IMay
8, 1865 Sept.
3, 1919 Consolidated with Eureka No. 16.
8, 1856 Oct.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's N o.
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
8, 1856 /Nov.,
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
No. 158.
8, 1856 May
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
8, 1856 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13.
8, 1856 May
8, 1858 Surrendered.
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No.
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
8, 1856 !Oct.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
St. H elena.
24, 1859 Surrendered.
8, 1856 !Dec.
8, 1924 Consolidated with Howard No. 96,
3, 1854 ,Dec.
as Howard No. 37.
8, 1856 July 19, 1926 Consolidated with Forbestown
No. 50.

I

Cl
!:O

s>
t'
0

ti

Cl
t;:J

o
l%J
~

t"'

:XJ

0
~
:;:

°'°'

>-"
"'

118
121
125
130
133

Vallecito ••.••••• Vallecito .. .... . . Calaveras .... ... May 13, 1858 .Tan.
Ionic .•....•••••• [owa Hill . .. .... . Placer ... ... ... . May 13, 1858 Ort.
1858 Oct.
Progress .......•• San Francisco ... . San Francisco .. . .
Unity .....•.••.. San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May I3, I859 May
YosemitA , ....••. Cou lterville ...... Mariposa ..•..... M ay I3, I85!l Oct.

137
138
142

Oro Fino ......... ,Oro Fino .. .. .. ... ,Siskiyou ..•..... ,May
Violet . . . . . . • . • .. S panish Flat .... . El Dorado .... . .• May
Colusa .....•..•. . Colusa .......... Colusa ..... ... .. May

I

J.!9
!(ii

152
153
154
l.'i5
157
158
159
160
162
16~

165
170
171
172
175
176
177
1"<0
!!!2

185
189
197
2I3

5, 18ii9 Surrendered.
8, 190ii l:inrrendered.
1-t, 18i0 Hcvoked.
13, 1863 Hernked.
16, 1!!13 Consolidaterl with La Grange No. 99.
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
1862 Snrrendered.
IO, I860 'June,
1O, I860 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No
IO, I860 April
240 as Colusa No. !!40.

San .Luis Obispo .. ·!San Luis Obi8po .. R;i ~- _Luis Obispo .. May
·Doric ... ..... . ... .!North Fork . . . .. : Tnmty ... . ...... Jan.
Palmyra •. ..... , . Placerville . ..... El Dorado .... ... May

l:r:J

I

2, I865 ::>11rrP.11rlere<1
I7, I86I Charter not. issued.
IO, 1902 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
Josephus .... .... . Brush Creek . .. ... Butte .... ..... .. May 15, I862 !Oct.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
Rising Sun ....... B r andy City ..... Sierra· ......... : May I5, 1862 July
I6, 1864 Surrendered.
Carson .....•..•• . Carson City . . .... Nevada Ter . . .... May I5, 1862 IJ nly
I6, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
.Mount Carmel. .•.. Red Dog .. .. ..... Nevada ...... . .. Mav 14, 1863 Aug. 16, 1872 Surrendered.
I6, I865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nnada.
Washoe .....•.... Washoe City . .. .. Nevada Ter . . ... , May 14, 1863 .fan.
Gibsonville .... , . Gibsonville , . . ... Sierra ........... May 14, 1863 Oct.
15, 1908L:onsolidaterl with JC'fferson :-<o. fli.
Gilroy ..•. .. . ..• . Gilroy .. ........ Santa Clara ... . .. May 14, I 863 Sept. 28, I864 Surrendered.
Pilot Hill .. . .... . . Pilot flill. ....... El • Dorado ..... , . May 14, 1863 Dec.,
1898iconsolidated with Georgetown N_o 2.'>.
Virginia City ... •. Virginia City.•••• Nevada Te,. ..... May 14, J 863 Jan.
l 6, l8G~ 1Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
S il ver City ....... Silrnr City ....... Nevada Ter ...... May I5, 1863 Tan.
16, 186~ 1Transforrcd to jurisdiction of Nevada.
Silver Star ....... Gold Hill. ....... Nevada Ter . . . ..• Oct. I3, I864 .Tan.
I6, I8G::i Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
Esmeralda ·..••••. Aurora .......... Nevada Ter ..... ; Oct. I3, 1864 Tan.
16, 1 8~~ 1Trans ferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
EGcurial ..•....•. Virg'inia City ..•. Nevada Ter ... .. . Oct. 13. 1864 .Tan.
16, 186<> Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
Laader ......... . Austin .......... Nev:ida Ter .. . ... Oct . 14, 1864 .Tan.
I6, I865 Tranaferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
I, 1864 Charter ne\' er issued.
Alpine .. . ...•.•. . Markleeville ... ·. Alprne ... ...... · 1·May 25, I864* Oct.
Claiborne ........ Antioch . .. ...... Contra Costa .. .. . Oct. 12. 186!5
Name changed to Antioch.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
Merced ......... . Snelling . . . . . . . . Merced . . . . ..... Oct. 12. 186!'i Ort.
Aztlan .. .... . .•.. PreRcott ......... Arizona Ter ...... Oct. 11, 1866 :\ic h. 25, I882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
Arcturas ••......• !Petaluma ......• !Sonoma ........ .. I Oct. 11. 1866 I Dec.,
I8981Consolitlated ' ith Petaluma No
77 as No. 18'.l.
Meridian •••••••• Arbuckle • •••••• \C:olrn1a ... , ...• . . Oct. 10, l 867 Oct.
16, I9191Name changed to Arbuckle.
Arenas .......... . ">nnta Arenas .... !Mendocino ...... Oct. 10. 1867 .. . . , ... . . . ... Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe .... •.. .. . Latrobe ..•. .. ... El Dorado .... .. . Oct. 15. 1868 Der.,
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 6!.
Paradise . .. ... . .. Fiaywards ... .... j.11 larneda . ... ... . Oet. I4. 1869 July
20, I872,Snrrenilercd.
Rocklin . . . . . . . . . ~oekl i n ...... , .• Placer ........••. July ~O. 1870* ........ . ... .. Charter never issued.
Bodega ......... . Bodega •. ......• Sonoma . . ... .. . . Oct. I4, I871 Oct.
12, I889 Revoked.
I6, 186I 'Dec.
11, I86I May
I6, 1862 Oct.

i·.... ·········

Q

:0

>

ztl

t'
0

tl

0

l:r:J

0
':J

~

t<
....
"'.l
0
~

z

:;

..,"'°
<D

276 Westport ....... . Westport ........ Mendocino ....... Oct.
284 Tyrian ..........• Dunnigan ......•. Yolo .......•... . Oct.
298 Mokelumne Hill ... Mokelnmne Hill. ; CalaveraR ...•• . . l)ct.
311 Hueneme ...... ."'.Hueneme ; ..•.... Ventura .....•... Oct.
340 Santa Maria ... .. ·~11nta Maria ...... Santa Barbara . ... Oct.
342 Ma~ila .... · · · ·• • • Manila ...•••.••• Phil~ppine Islands Oct.

16, 1884 IMay
14, 1886 Oct.
16, 1890 i)bC.
12, 1892 Oct.
11, 1900 Oct.
1 o, 1901 Dec.

350

Cav1te . . ....... · • Cavite . .....••.• Philippine Islands Oct.

15, 1903 IDec.

1164

Olivet .... . ....... !Corning ......... ~Teb&ma

........ !Oct.

13, 1904 !Oct.

386

Corregidor ...... ; . Manila •..•.•••• Philippine Islands Oct.

10, 1907 Dec.

398
432

Fowler • . . . . . . . . . Fowler ••.••...•. 'Fresno •..•••••.• Oct.
Granite No. 222 ••• Rocklin .•••••••• Placer ••••... .•. Oct.

15, 1908 Oct.
11, 1872 May

438 Germania •••••••. LoB Angeles ••••. Los Angeles •... . Oct.
456 Kennett •••••••••• Kennett •••..•••• Siskiyou .•..•.••. Oct.

16, 1913 Oct.
14, 1915 Dec.

*Date of disrensation.

26, 1888 Surrendered.
11, 1911 Con~olidated with Woodland N o.156
25, 1919 Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78.
16, 1902 Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341.
13, 1910 Consolidated with HesvArlan No. 264.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
19 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
'
Philippine Islands.

l;:J

1, 1917 Consolidated with Newville No.
205, as Olivet No. 205.
19 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
'
Philippine Islands.
14 1915 Consolidated with Selma No. 277.
29' 1919 Consolidated with Roseville No.
'
432, as Roseville No. 222.
10 1918 Name changed to Acacia.
Cl
l:O
1s' 1925 Consolidated with Reading,
.>
'
No. 254.
z
t:i
t'
0
0
Cl
l:tJ
0
'2J

~

~l:O

z

r;;:

"'
re>

""

\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

396

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE
SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE
Year
Elected.

1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
187i
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
i891
1892
1893
1894
1895

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALU'ORNIA

397

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
lBTH DAY OF APRIL, A. L . 5850.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt ........ •Caleb Fenner.
•John A. Tutt............. •'!3enjamln D. Hyam. •E. F. W .. Ellis
•Benjamin D. Hyam. . . . . . •Charles M. Radclltt. . •Adolphus Holl ub.
"Charles M. Radcllll ...... •Townsend A. Thomas •John R. Crandall.
•William H. Howard..... •Nathaniel G. Curtis.. •Rector E. ·C ole.
•William H. Howard . .... •Townsend A. 'l'homas •John A . Raymond.
•William H . Howard ..... •John A Raymond ..... •Lemuel Lyon.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Charles Marsh . . . • . . . •Aaron ·D. Park.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W. Shepheard. •W!Ulam McCormick.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W. Shephe'!l.rd. •Ebenezer Lane.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... •Philip W. Shepheard. •Wllllam C. Belcher.
•James L. English........ •William C. Belcher~. •John W. Harville.
•William C. Belcher .. . ... •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. · •John W. Harville.
•William C. Belcher ...... •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •Louis Cohn.
•William C. Belcher . ..... •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •William A. Davies.
•Gilbert B. Claiborne..... •William A. Davies... •rsaac S. Titus.
•Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... •Henry H. Hartley .... 0Wm. H . Peterson.
•William A. Davies. . . . . . . •Henry H. Hartley. . . . •Thomas Beck.
•Charles Marsh........... •Leonidas E. Pratt. ... ·•T·heodore G. Cockrill.
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Isaac S. Titus ... .. ... *John S. Ward .
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Isaac S. Titus ........ •Charles L. Wiggin.
•Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •Benj. H. Freeman.
•Leonidas E. Pratt. ..•.... •Benj. H. FreE'man .. . •George C. Perkins.
•Isaac S. Titus........... •George C. Perkins.
•John M. Browne.
•George C. Perkins......... •John M. Browne . .'... •William B, Parker.
•John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •wney,· J. Tinnin.
•John M. Browne ......... "Charles L. Wiggin ... •wmia.m S. Wells:
•John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •wmiam W. Tra)·lor.
•John M. Browne ......... •William W . Traylor .. •William H . Crane.
•William W. Traylor ...... •Samuel c. Denson .. .. •Clay W. Taylor.
•Samuel C. Denson ....... •Clay w. Taylor ...... •John Q. Adams. '
•clay W. Taylor .......... •John Q. Adams ...... •Jonathan D. Hines.
•Clay W. Taylor .......... •Jonathan D. Hines ... •:Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Jonathan D . Hines .. .... •Wiley J. Tinnin.. .. .. •Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines...... •Wiley J. Tinnin...... •Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Wiley J. Tinnin .......... •Edmund c. Atkinson. •Hiram N. Rucker.
"Edmund C. Atkinson ... . . •Hiram. N. Rucker .... •Morris M. Estee.
•Hiram N. Rucker ........ •Morris M. Estee .. .. . *Alvah R. Conklin.
•Morris M. Estee......... •Alvah R. Conklin.... •William Johnston
•Morris M. Estee......... •William ,Johnston.... •Charles R. Gritman.
•Alvah R. Conklin . ... .. ... •William Johnston .... •Charles R. Gritman.
•William Johnston ........ •Charles Ray Gritman. •Henry S. Orme.
"Charles R. Gritman . . . . . •Henry: S. Orme....... •Jamel! B. Stevens.
•Henry S. Orme......... . . •James· B. Stevens . ... •Edward M. Preston.
•James B. Stevens........ •Edward M. Preston.. William T. Lucas.
•Edward M. Preston....... William T. Luca.-..... Thomas Flint.

*Deceased

\

J~nlor

Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer

Grand
Secretary.

•Sashel Woods ........ •Levi Stowell.......
•John H. Gihon ...... .
•Benj. S. Olds ......... •Townsend A. Thomas •Levi Stowell . . . .... . . .
•John R. McConnell ... •Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
•Richard F. Knott. ... •Addison Martin .... . . •Levi Stowell ......... .
•Rober• N. Wood . . .. . "Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ... .... .. .
•Samuel A. Merritt ... •Addison Martin ..... . •Levi Stowell ..... . .... .
•Peter W. Randle. ·.... •Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell .. ..... .
•John B. Bope ........ •Addison Martin .... .. •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•James W. · Blc.kneil. .. •Addison Martin .. , .. . .•Alex ·G. Abell . . ..... .
•Thomas P. Hawley .. •Addison Martin ...... •Alex G . . Abell ...• . , . .
•Alvlnza Hayward .... •Addison Martin ...•. . •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Caleb E. Wilcoxon .. · •James Laldley .. . ..... •Alex G. Abell . .. . ... .
•John B. Hewson .· ··· •James Laldley ....... . •Alex G. Abell . .. .... .
•William A. Davies.·· •James Laldley ....... ~Alex G. Abell . . ..... .
•Isaac S. Titus .. ·· .··· •James Laidley ........ •Alex G. Abell .... . . . .
•Henry H. Hartley .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell .. ... . ..
•Thomas Beck .... .'.. •James Laldley ... . .... •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Leonidas E. Pratt. ... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ... .... .
•Frederick F. Bares ... •James Laldley ..... ... •Alex G. Abell ... . ... .
'Richard Dale .... . ... •James Laldley ... .. ... •Alex G. Abell. . ..... .
•Benj. H. Freeman ... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ... ,. . .' .. .
•Geo. C. Perkins .... .. •James Laldley .... .... •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John M. Browne ..... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Chas. E . Mitchell .... •James Laldley .... .. .. •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Wiley J. Tinnin .. . .. •James Laldley ..... . .. •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Jacob H . Nett ... .... · •James Laldley ........ •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Solon W. Craigue·.. -,. •James Laldley ........ •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Wm. H. Crane .. . .. ·.· •Moses Heller . . ....... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Robert C. Broder .... •Moses Heller ......... "Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•John Q. Adams ...... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Orrin W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ... .. : .. . •Alex. G. Abell ..... : ..
•Thomas .J. Bowers ... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G . Abell ....... .
•George Hinds ........ •Moses Heller .... : ... . •Alex. G. Abell .. . .... .
•Hiram N . Rucker .. ·.. •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ..•.....
•Hiram N . Rucker .... •Moses Heller ........ . •Alex. G. Abell ....... ·.
•Henry H. Knapp .... . •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Alvah n.. Conklin .... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .. .... ..
•wm. Johnston ....... •Nathan W . Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Marcus D. Boruck ... •Nathan W . Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell . . . .... .
•Henry S. Orme .. . ... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ...•....
•Henry S. Orme . . . ... •Nathan W . Spaulding. •George Johnson .. .. .
•James B. Stevens .... •Nathan W. Spo.uldlng. •Geo rge Johnson ..... .
•Edward M. Preston .. •Nathan W . Spaulding. •George Johnson . . ... .
Wm. T. Lucas ..•.... •Edward Coleman ..... •George J ohnson .. ... .
Thomas Flint ........ •Edward Coleman .. .. . •George Johnson . . ... .
Frank M. Angellotti .. •Edward Coleman ..... •Geo rge Johnson ..... .

*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

\

Year.
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1>02
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930

\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

398

399

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS O:B' THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Maater.

Senior
Grand Warden,

William T . Lucas ....... . Thomas Flint. ..... . . Frank M. Angellotti.
Thomas Flint............. . Frank M. Angellotti.. •Charles L . Patton
Frank M. Angellottl ..... . "Charles L. Patton.... •James A. Foshay.
•Charles L. Patton .... .•.. •James A. Foshay ..... •William S. Wells.
•James A. Foshay .. ..... . . •William S. Wells..... Orrin S. Henderson.
•William S. Wells ........ . Orrin S. Henderson.. •Charles W. Nutting.
Orrin S. Henderson ..... . •Charles W. Nutting .. · •Georce W. Hunter.
•Charles W. Nutting .. . ..• •George W. Hunter. • • •Motley H. Flint .• ...•
•George W. Hunter ..••••. *Motley H. Flint...... •Edward H. Hart.
*Motley H. Flint ......... . "Edward H. Hart..... George M. Perine.
•Edward H. Hart . ...... .. Geo. M. Perine....... •Reuben H. Lloyd.
George M. Perine ..••...• •Reuben H. Lloyd. . • . • Oscar Lawler.
Oscar Lawler ........... . *W. Fl'.a.nk Pierce..... Dana R. Weller.
•w. Frank Pierce ...... .. . Dana R . Weller ....... •Alonzo J. Monroe
Dana R. Weller ......... . "Alonzo J. Monroe.... Wm. P. Filmer.
•Alonzo 1. Monroe ....... . Wm. P. Filmer......
John D. Murphey.
Wm. P. Filmer ........•• John D. Murphey.... Benj. F. Bledsoe.
John D. Murphey .•••••.• Benj. F . Bledsoe..... •Albert G. Burnett
Benj. F . Bledsoe . ....... . "Albert G. Burnett.... Francis V. Keesling.
•Albert G. Burnett ....... . Francis V. Keesllng. . Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
Francis V. Keesling ..... . Wm. Rhodes Hervey. · Bradford Webster.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .... . Bradford Webster . . • Charles A. Adams.
Bradford Webster .... . .. . Charles A. Adams. . .. George F. Rodden.
Charles Albert Adams ..• George F . Rodden . ... Samuel E . Burke.
George F. Rodden . ••. ... • Samuel E. Burke....
William A. Sherman.
Samuel E. Burke ..•••••..
Arthur S. Crites.
Wlllia.m A. Sherman.
Wllliam A. Sherman .••.•
Arthur S. Crites.....
David J. Reese.
Arthur S. Crites ........ .
David J . Reese.. . ....
Albert E. Boynton
David J . Reese .. ....... . Albert E. Boynton. . .
George L . Jones.
Albert E. Boynton .••..• • George L. Jones..... Will H. Fischer.
George L. Jones . ...... .. .
Will H. Fischer . ..... Gustav A. Hutatf
Will H. Fischer .. •.......
Gustav A. Hutatf.. .. Chas. M. Wollenberg.
Gustav A. Hutaff ....... . Chas. M. Wollenberg
John Stewart Ross.
Chas. M. Wollenberg..••• John Stewart Ross... Robert B: Gaylord
John Stewart Ross . .... ;, Robert B. Gaylord.... Frank W. Mlxter.

•Deceaaed.

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treaaurer.

Grand
Secretary

Grand
Lecturer.

•Charles L. Patton ..•. •Edward Coleman ...•. •George Johnson .•....
•James A. Foshay ... . •Edward. Coleman ....• •George Johnson ..... .
•William S. Wells .... "Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson . ... . .
Orrin S. Henderson . . •Edward Coleman ..... •George Joh nson ..... .
•Charles W. Nutting .. "Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .. .. .. •Wm. H. Edwards.
•George W. Hunter .•.• "Edward Coleman .. ... •George Johnson .... .. •Wm. H . E dwards.
*Motley H. Flint.
•Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... .. •wm. H. Edwards.
"Edward. H. Ha.rt. ...• "Edward Coleman ... .• •George Johnson ..... . •wm. H. Edwards.
George M. Perine .. .. "Edward Coleman ... . . •George Johnson .... . . •Wm. H . Edwards.
•Reuben H. Lloyd ..• . "Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson . . .. . . •Wm. H. Edwards.
Oscar Lawler ....... "Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .••••. •Wm. H. Edwards.
•w. Frr.nk .Pierce .... "Edward Coleman .••. •George Johnson .... .. Thomas J. Baker.
•Alonzo J. Monroe .... "Edward Coleman . ... . John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
W illiam P. Filmer . .. •Edward Coleman... .. John Whlcher .•....•• Thomas J. Baker.
J ohn D . Murphey .... •Edward Coleman.. ... John Whlcher ...... .. Thomas J. Baker.
Benj. F. Bledsoe .... "Edwa.ra Coleman..... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
•Albert G. Burnett... "Edward Coleman... . . John Whicher .•.••..• Thomas J. Baker.
J:<'rancls V. Keesling.. Wm. P. Filmer.. ..... John Whlcher .....••• T homas J. Baker.
'N. Rhodes Hervey.. Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J . Baker.
Bradford Webster... Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher .. ..... . Thomas J. Baker.
Chas. Albert Adams. Wm. P. Filmer.. ..... John Whlcher . ...... . Thomas J. Baker.
George F. Rodden... Wm. P. Filmer.. .... John Whlcher .• .....• T h omas J. Baker.
Sam uel E. Burke.... W m. P. Filmer...... John Whlcher ... • .• • • Thomas J. Baker.
Wllllam A. Sherman. Wm. P. Filmer . ..... John Whlcher . •.. . .. • Thomas J. Baker.
Arthur S. Crites..... Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J . Baker.
David J. Reese....... Wm. P. Filmer.... . .. John Whlcher ...... . . Thomas J. Baker.
Albert E. Boynton... Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher .•.•.•.• Thomas J . Baker
George L. Jones., ..• , Wm. P. Filmer..... . . John Whlcher . •...•. Thomas J. Baker.
Will H. Fischer .. .... Wd:. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher •.. . ..• Thomas J. Baker.
Gustav A. Hutaff.. •• W . P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ...•..• Thomas J. Baker.
Chas. M. Wollenberg. Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher . .. .... . Thomas J. Baker.
J ohn Stewart Ross... Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ... ... . . Thoma s J. Baker.
Robert B. Gaylord.... Wm. P. Filmer. ... ... J ohn Whlcher ...... .• Thomas J. Baker.
Frank Wilber Mlxter. Wm. P. Filmer .. .. . .. John Whlcher ...... . . Thomas J. B a ker.
James B. Gist........ Wm. P. Filmer.. .... . John Whlcher .... .. .. Thomas J. Baker

•Deceased.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

400

PROCEEDIXGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alberta ................ J. H . W. S. Kemmis ....... Calgary
Brazil. ................ Dr. Miguel A. Taj on .... , . . Rio de J aniero
British Columbia ....... W. A. De Wolf-Smith . ..... New Westrninster
Canada (Ontario) .......Wm. M. Logan . .. ........ .Hamilton
Santiago, Chili
Chili ...................Rudolfo C. Oliveira ........ Cassila No. 2867
ColombiaN ational Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Apartado 333
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota
Costa Rica .... . .... .. .. G. F. Bowden .. ... ........ San Jose
Cnba . ... ...... ....... . Dr. Jose},. Castellanos ..... IIabana
Czecho-SlovakiaThe Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings
The National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia
Both Seated at Prague.
Denmark ...... ..... ... .P.O. Rosenorn ............ Blegamsuej 23,
Copenhagen
Ecuador ............... Dr. M. A. Jijon ........... Guayaquil
Egypt ................. Abd El Maguid-Younis ..... Freemason's Hall,
6 Fouad 1 St.,
Cairo.
England .. .... . .......• P. Colville Smith . . ........London
France (Grand Lodge of) Maurice Monier . . ....... .. 8, rue Puteaux,
Paris
Independent National
G. F. Beaumont, 42 ....... . I, rue Belgrade,
Grand Lodge of France
Paris
German Grand Lodges
National Mother Grand Lodge of the Three Globes
Grand Lodge of Hamburg
Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship
National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons
Grand Lodge '' Zur Sonne'' Bayreuth.
Guatemala ........... • . .Francisco Krafka ........ . Guatemala

401

Honduras ... . .. .. •.. ... Emilio E. Valladares ...... Tegucigalpa
Ireland ...... ... .... . .. Henry C. Shellard . ........ Dublin
Holland (Netherlands) ..A. E . L. Faubel. ... : ..... r.Fluweelen
Burgwal 22
The Hague
Manitoba .............. J. A. Ovas ............. . , .Winnipeg
Mexico (York Grand
Lodge) ............. A. Percival Hughes . ... .. .. Apartado 1986,
Mexico City,
Mexico, D. F.
New Brunswick ... ..... J. Twining Hartt .. . ... . ... Saint John
New South Wales .. ... . Arthur H. Bray .... ... ·... . Sydney
New Zeal~nd . ..... ... ..George Barclay ..... . .... . .Christchurch
Norway .. ... ... ..... .. .E. Lo wig-Hansen ......... . Oslo
Nova Scotia .. . .... .. .. James C. J ones ... .... .... Halifax
Panama ...... .. ....... .Jose Oller ................ Panama
Peru . . ..... .. .... , .....Gerardo Alania . . ........ . Lima
Philippine Islands ...... Newton C. Comfort ........ Manila
Porto Rico ... . ....... .. Jose G. Ginorio ....... . . .. San Juan
Prince Euward Island . . E . T. Carbonel. .... ·.. ..... Charlottetown
Quebec .... . ........•. .W.W. Williamson . ........ Montreal
Queensland .. ... , ......•Chas. H. Harley ........... Brisbane
Saskatchewan ...... .. . . W. B. Tate ...... .... . . ... Regina
Scotland .......... . .. .. Thomas G. Winning ........ Edinburgh
Serbes, Croates· and
Slov~nes .. ... .... . .. S. Chokorah .............. Beograd; Jugoslavia.
South Australia . ...... . Chas. R. J. Glover . .... .. .. Adelaide
Sweden ......... ... ... . Yneve G. Wisin .....·...... Frimurarelogen,
Stockholm
SwitzerlandThe Swiss Grand Lodge-Alpina
Arnold Rasehle, Grand Seey., Zurich, 18
Tasmania .. , ... . ....... W. H. Strutt ...... .. ..... Hob~rt
Victoria . . .. .. . ........ W. Stewart .. .. .. : ........ Melbourne
Vienna .. ... . : .. . ...... Wladimir Misar .... . .. . .. . 1 Dorotheergasse
·
12, Vienna.
Western Australia ...... J. D. Stevenson ... . ....... Perth

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
A. E. F. Irwin ..••.• 645 San Pedro .............. Los Angeles.
Abell ..•.......•••• 146 Ukiah .....•.•....•••... Mendocino.
Acacia ......•..•..• 438 Los Angeles ••....•••••• Los Angeles.
Acorn .........•.. .494 Oakland ........•••••••• Alameda.
Adin ..•......••... 250 Adin ..........•....•.•• Modoc.
Alamo ......•..•... 122 Walnut · Creek .......... Contra Costa.
Alameda ......•.•.. 167 Centerville •....•••.•••• Alameda.
Albert Pike ........ 484 Los Angeles .•....•...' •• Los Angeles.
Alcatraz ..•.•..••.. 244 Oakland ••...•••.•••.•• Alameda.
Alexandria .••...•.• 531 San Francisco ••••••• , •• San Francisco.
Alexander Graham
Bell ........••.... 595 Los Angeles •.....•••• , • Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton.535 Los Angeles .....•.••.•• Los Angeles.
Alhambra ......•... 322 Alhambra •.....•........ Los Angeles.
Alisa! .............. 321 Pleasanton .•.•.•........ Alameda.
All States ..•· ....... 593 Long Beach ...........•. Los Angeles.
Alpha ...•.......•. 431 Richmond ............... Contra Costa.
Alta. ...........•.•. 333 Bridgeport .•..........• Mono.
Altadena ........... 678 Altadena ............... Los Angeles.
Alta Vista ......•. .464 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Alta Loma ...•...••. 644 Signal Hill •.............Los Angeles.
Alturas ............ 248 Alturas .•........•...... Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 Siin Francisco .......•.. San Francisco.
Amador •.•..•.••••. 65 Jackson ................ Amador.
America •..••..•... 4 75 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ............. ·... Orange.
Anchor ............ 273 Compton ................ Los Angelee,
Angeles Mesa ....... 6!5 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Antioch .•..........• 175 Antioch ................. Contra Col!lta.
Apollo .... : ........ 396 Alameda .. : ............. Alameda.
Arcadia ........•.• 547 Arcadia ...............• ·Lo! Angeles.
Arbuckle ....•..... 182 Arbuckle ................ Colusa.
Arcata .•.......... 106 Arcata ..............•.•. Humboldt.
Argonaut ••.•.•.•. .461 San Francil!lco .......... San Francisco.
Argonne .. .. ........ 514 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande .......... San Luis Obispo.
Arlington ..•....•.. 414 Los Angeles .......•...• Los Angeles.
Artesia. . , .......... 377 Artesia ................. Los Angeles.
Ascot .............. 538 Los Angeles ..........•.• Los Angeles.
Ashlar •.....••..•.. 306 Colton .................. San Bernardino.
Atascadero .....•.. 493 Atascadero .........•.•.. San Luis Obispo.
Athens .•....•.••.. 228 Davis .•..........••••••• Yolo.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

403

Post Office.
County.
Lodge.
No.
Atwater ............ 622 Los Angeles .....••..•... Los Angeles.
Azure .............. 533 F'ullerton ............... Orange.
Azusa ..•.••....... 305 Azusa .........•.•••••••• Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Baldwin Park .••.••• 660 Baldwin Park ........... Los Angeles.
Bay City .........• 526 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Bay View .......... .401 Oakland · ............... Alameda.
Beacon of the West .. 628 Los Angeles ...•.....•.. Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain ...... 76 Angels Camp ............ Calaveras.
Bell ............... 483 Bell ................... Los Angeles.
Bellflower ......... 523 Bellflower ...........•. Los Angeles.
Belvedere •.....••.. 539 Los Angeles ..••.....••• Los Angeles.
Benevolence •••.•••• 631 Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ................ Solano.
Benj. Franklin ...... 509 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley ............... Alameda.
Bethlehem ........ .453 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Beverly Hills ...... 528 Beverly Hills .......... Los Angeles.
Big Bear ........... 617 Pine Knot .........••.• San Bernardino.
Blackmer ......... .442 San Diego ............... San Diego. .
Blythe ............. 473 Blythe ................. San Bernardino.
Brawley .......... .402 Brawley ............... Imperial.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ............. Contra Costa.
Brooklyn ........... 225 East Oakland ........... Alameda.
Buckeye ........... 195 Winters ................ Yolo.
Buena Park ......... 357 Buena Park ............ Orange.
Burbank .......... .406 Burbank ............... Los Angeles.
Burlingame ........ 400 Burlingame ............ San Mateo.
Cahuenga .......... 513 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Caledonia .......... 486 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Calexico .......... 412 Calexico ............... Imperial.
California ·. . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Calaveras · .......... 78 San Andreas ............ Calaveras.
Callayomi .......... 282 Middletown ............ Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga .............. Napa.
Capital City......... 499 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Carmelita •.......•. 599 Pasadena ............... Los Angeles.
Carpinteria .•..... .444 Carpinteria ............• Santa Barbara.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ....... ; ....... Contra Costa.
Catalina Island ..••. 524 Avalon .....•..•....... Los Angeles.
Center ............. 465 Fresno ................ Fresno.
Charity . , .......... 362 Campbell .............. Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ...•.. .410 Berkeley ................ Alameda.

404
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

Post Oll'lce.

County.

Chateau Thierry . .•. 569 Oakland . ... . ........... Alameda.
Chico . . . . . ......... 111 Chi co ..... .. ·.. ....... .. Butte.
Chino Valley . .. ... .427 Chino ... . .. . .. ..... .... San Bernardi no.
Chula Vista ... . .. . . 626 Chula Vista . .. ........ San Diego.
Citro! .. . ....•.....• 656 Brea ........ .. ....... ....Orange.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena .. .. ... . .. .. Mendocino.
Claremont .. .. .. . .. 436 Claremont ..... ... . .. .. Los Angeles.
Clay ............... 101 Du.tch Flat .... ... . ..... Placer.
Clea r Lake .. .. .. . . .. 183 Lower Lake .... . ........ Lake.
Clinton .... ..... .. . 119 Igo . ..... ... .. •. ...... . Shasta.
Clovis . . .. . .. . .... .417 Clovis ......... .. .... .. F resno.
Coachella .. . ..... . .476 Coachella ...... . . . . ... . Riverside.
Coalinga . .......... 387 Coalinga . . ........ . . .. . Tulare.
Compass .. . .. . ... .. 590 Pomona . . . .. . .......... Los Angeles.
Concord .. .. . ....... l l 7 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Confidence ......... 203 Castroville . . ..... ... ... Monterey.
Co nsuelo ........... 325 Escondido .. ... . . ..... . San Diego.
Corcoran ........... 490 Corcoran . . ... . ... .. .. ... Kings.
Colusa .. ..... . . . . .. 240 Colusa ....... .... .... ... ('olusa.
Compc>site . ..••..... 639 Los Angeles ............ .Los Angeles.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ... ... ... .. .. Yuba.
~
Corona . . . . ........ 324 Pasa dena ... .. ......... Los Angeles.
Coronado .. ...... . .441 Coron ado ....... ..... . .. San Diego.
Covelo .. . . . ... . . ... 231 Covclo . . .... . .... . . .... Mendocino.
Covenant .... .. .... 527 Los Angeles . . .. ·..... .. Lo.s Angeles.
Covina . .... .... .. .. 334 Covina . . ....... ... ..... Los Angeles.
Clarence F. Smith . .. 482 Los Angeles . . . .... . . .. . Los Angeles.
Craftsmen ..•.... .. 559 Los Angeles ...... .. . .. . Los Angeles.·
Cr escenta Valley ••.. 652 Montrose . .": . . ", .•...... Los Angeles:·
Gresceni ... . ~ ...... 45 Crescent · City .. : : . ..... . Del Norte. ·
Crocker .... : ....... 454 Daly City . . . . .. ·.... . ... San Matcici ...
Crockett ... . : ... . .. 139 San Francisco .. ·: . ... . . . . San Francisco.
Culver City ......... 467 Culver City .·... . . ... . ... Los ·Angele.if.
Cupertino .. :: ... . .. 510 C1ipertino . :-: .. . . . . . .. .. Santa Clara~
Curtis . .. ... . . .. . . . 140 Cloverdale · .' . . . '. . . . ... . . Sonoma.
Chowchilla .. : ...... 485 Chowchilla · . :. : ... . ..... River side;
Damascus ...... .... 648 San Bernardino ...... .. . San Berilarclino.
Delano . . .... '. . ... .. 309 Delano .. . . . : ... . ·. . ..... Kern.
Pelta . .. ......... ... 471 Stockton " .. .. .. " ........ San J oaqtiiil. .•
Dimond .....:. . ..... 603 Oakland ..... : . :·......• Alattie.da'.
Dinuba ... ·.... . .... 385 Dinuba : . . : . . .'.'. : ...... Tulare> ·· ·
Doric .... .. . : . . . . ... 216 San Francisco .:: : ....... S:tn Franci sco.
Downey .. , . . , . ... .. 220 Downey . . . . . .. ....... . . Los Angeies,. ·

.

~

..

'

.

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Lodge.

No.

P os t O ffice.

405
County.

Dry town . . .. ... .... 174 Plymouth . . .. ... ....... Amador.
Dunsmuir .... . . . ... 297 Dunsmuir . . .. . . .. ...... Siskiyou.
Durant ... .. ... .... 268 Berkeley .... . ...... . . .. Alameda.
Eagle Rock ......... 422 Los Angeles . . ... . . ..... L os Angeles.
East Bay ........... 489 Berk eley .. . . .. ... .. .... ~.\lanrnda.
East Belt ..... .... . 391 T uolumne .... .. . .. . . ... Tuolumne.
East Gate . .. . ... ... 290 Los Angeles . ... . .. . . . ... Los Angeles.
East San Diego .. ... 561 E ast San Diego .. . . . . . .. San Diego.
Eden . . ... .. .. .... . 113 San Leandro· .. ........ . Alamc rln.
Educator . ... .•. . .. 554 S an F rancisc o . . . . .. .. .. .S an Francisco.
Eel Ri\·er .... . .. . ... 147 Fortuna ............... H umbold t .
El Cajon Valley . .... 576 El Cajon . . . ... . .... .... San Diego.
El Centro .... . ...... 384 El Ceutro . .. ... . ... . . . . . Imperial.
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . 26 Placerville .. ....... . .... E l Dorado.
Elk Grove .......... .i.73 Elk Grove .. . . .. ... . ... . Sacr amento.
Elmhurst .......... ,610 Oakland .............• Alameda.
Elsinoro .... . .....• 289 Elsinore . .. ..... .. . .... Riverside.
El Segundo ... . .. ... 507 El Segundo . ..... ... . .. . L os Angeles.
~:1 Sereno . ... . ..... 588 Los Angeles .... . . . . . .. . Los Angeles.
Elysian . . . . .. . ..... 418 Los Angeles ....... . . . . L os Ang eles.
Eu!manuel ......... 318 Biggs .... . ............. B utte.
Enterprise .. ... .... 70 Yuba City .... .. ... .... . Sutter.
P.scalon ...... ... ... 591 Escalon .. .. ... . ... . . . .. San Joaquin.
gucalyptus ... . . ... . 243 Haywar ds ... . .. ... ...•. Alameda.
Euclid . .... . .. ... .. 519 Los Angeles ... .. ... .. . Los Angeles.
Eureka . . . . ... . ... . 16 Auburn . . . . . .. ... . . .... Placer.
E vening Star . .. . .. . 186 Etua Mills ........ . .. .. Siskiyou.
Evergreen ... . . .... 259 Riverside .. .. .... . . . .. . Riverside.
Excelsior . . .. ...... 166 San Francisco .. . .. . ... . . Sa n F r ancisco.
Exeter .. ..... . .... . 424 Exeter . ... . . : .. .. .. . . .. T ular e.
Fairfax ............ 556 F airfax .................Mar in.
Fairview ..... . . .. . 629 Inglewood . ....... .. . . .. L os Angeles.
Fairmount .. .. .. ... 435. S an Francisco ....... . . . . San Francisco.
Fall brook . .. .. . . .. .. 317 Fall br ook ..... . . . .. . .. . San Diego.
Far West ......•.... 673 San Francisco . ... . . . .... San F rancisco.
F'<'llowship . ... . ... .480 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Ferndale ........... 193 Ferndale .. .. . . . ... ..... •Humboldt.
Fidelity .... . . .. ... 120 San Francisco .. . . . . . . .. . S an Francisco.
F'illmorc ....... • ... 379 Fillmore ..• . ..... . .•...• Vent ura.
Florence ........... 649 Florence . ..... . . .. .. .. . .Los Angeles.
Fontana .. . . ....... 653 Fontana .... . ... ....... San Bernardino.
Foothill ........... 564 Oakland . ............... Alameda.
Forbesto wn . . . . . . . . 50 Forbestown . ... .... .• .• Butt e.
Forest ..... .. ...... 66 Alleghany .........•... Sierra.
Fort Bragg . . ...... 361 Fort Bragg .... . ..... . . . M endocin o.
Fort Crook . .• ..•.•• 575 Fall River Mills .....•.• Shasta.

GRAND L ODG E OF CALI FORNI A

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Otrlce.
County.
Fortitude ..... . ... .. 624 Oakland . . ...... . ..... Alameda.
Fra nklin ....... . ... 143 Courtland ... . .. ... . . ... Sacramento.
Francis Drake . .. .. . 376 South San Francisco . . . .. San Mateo.
Francis K. Shattuck.571 Berkeley . . .... .. ..... . . .Alameda.
Fraternity ... .... .. 399 San Jose .... . .. .. ...... Santa Clara.
Fremont •... • ..•• • . 497 Oakland ·· .. . ..... . . ... . Alameda.
Fresno . ....•... . . . . 247 Fresno . .. . .. . . . . .. ..... Fresno.
Friendship ....... .. 210 San Jose ... . .... .. ..... Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .......... 336 Oakland ....... .. .. . ... Alameda.
Fullerton ... .... ... 339 Fullerton .. ... . .... .... Orange.
Galt ... . ... . .... . .. 267 Galt .... . ... . ... . . . .....Sacramento.
Garden Grove • .. . .. 586 Garden Grove .... ..... ..Orange.
Gardena .. ..... .. .• 372 Gardena . .. . .. . . . ...... Los Angeles.
The Gardens ........ 621 Los Angeles .... . ....... Los Angeles.
Garvanza ...... . .. .492 Los Angeles . ........... Los AngeleR.
Georgetown .... . ... 25 Georgetown .. .. .. .. . . .. El Dorado.
George Washington .. 525 San F :·ancisco . . . .. . . .•. San Francisco.
Glassell Park . ... ... 605 Los Angeles .. . ...•.••• Los Angeles.
Glendale ...• • ...••. 544 Glendale .. . ........ . ... .Los Angeles.
Glendora . . ...... . . .404 Glendora .. ... ... . . ..... Los Angeles.
Golden City ......... 553 San Francisco .·...... . .. .San Francisco.
Golden Gate ........ 30 San Francisco . . .... . .. .. San Francisco.
Golden Rule .. . . ... . 479 San Jose .. . .. .. . . . . . . .. Santa Clara.
Golden West ... . . . .455 San Francisco .. . . . . . .. . San Francisco.
Golden State . . .. . ... 358 Los Angeles . . .. . . . . . .. . Los Angeles.
Gold Hill . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln .. .. . . ... . . . . . .. P lacer .
Grafton .. .......... 141 Graf ton . . .. . .. .. .....• Yolo.
Granada. .. . ......... 608 Alhambra .......... . .• Los Angeles.
Gravel Range ... .. .. 59 Camptonville . . . . . ... . . Yuba.
Greenleaf ••........ 670 Whittier ............. . ..Los Angeles.
Grizzly . .... . .. . . . .. 601 Portola ...... . .....•... Plumas.
Guadalupe . . . ... . . . 237 Guadalupe . . . .. . .. .. ... Santa Barbara.
Guardian ..... . .... 596 South Gate .. . .. . . . . . .. . Los Angeles.
Hammonton . . . .. . : .433 Hammonton . . . . . ...... Yuba.
Hanford .. .. . . . . . . . 279 H anfor d ... . . . . . . ... ... Kings.
Harbor ..•. . .. . .... 502 Richmond . ..... .. ...... Contra Costa.
Harding ........... 584 Los Angeles . . . . ........ Los Angeles.
Harmony ... .. ... .. 164 Sierra City .. . .. .. ... .. . Sierra.
Hartley . .. . . .... . .. 199 Lakeport ... .. .. ....... Lake.
Hawaiian .. . . . . . .... 21 Honolulu .. .. ..... .. .. . Hawaiian Ter.
Hawthorne •• . ...•• . 647 Hawthorne ... .. .. .. . . .. Los Angeles.
Hemet ...........•. 615 Hemet •......... . ... • • Riverside.
Henry Clay . . . . . . . . . 95 Sutter Cr eek .. .. ... ... .. Amador.
Henry Morse
Stephens ......... 541 Berkeley ...• . .•.••.•.• Alameda.

407

Post Otrlce.
County.
Lodge.
No.
Henry W . Knox .... U.D. Los Angeles .. • . • ....•. •Los Angeles.
Hermann ... . .. . . .. . 127 San F ran cisco .. ... . .. . . San Francisco.
Hermosa ..•..•...• ,557 Hermosa Beach ••••••• L os Angeles.
Hesperian ... . . ... . . 264 Sant a Maria ...... . .•. . . Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ...... 3!'2 Los Angeles .. ... . .. . . .. Los Angeles.
Hillcrest . ...... . . . . 573 Berkeley ............ • .. .Alameda.
Hill 's Ferry. . ....•.. 23G Newman ....... . . . ..... Stanislaus.
Hiram ... . . .. . ... .. 43 E l Dorado .. .. . .. . . . ... . El Dora do.
Henry S. Orme . . ... 458 Los Angeles . .. . ... .. ... L os Angeles.
Hollenbeck . . . .. . . . 319 Los Angeles ........ . .. . L os Angeles.
Hollywood .. .. . .. .. 355 Hollywood . .. . .. ... .. .. Los Angel es.
Holtville .. . .... . . .425 Holtville .. ...•..• • , ••• I mperial.
Honolulu . . ..... . . . .409 Honolulu .... , ..... . ... Hawaiian Ter.
Hope .... . ..... . . . . 234 Beckwith . . . . .. . . . .. .. . P lumas.
Hornitos ... . .. .. .. . !.>8 H ornitos ....... . .. . .. . . Mariposa.
Howard ... •. •...... 37 Yrek a .... -. . . . .. ... . .. . Siskiyou.
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . 79 Eureka .. .. . . . .. . .. .... H umboldt.
Huntington Beach . . . 380 Hunt ington Bea ch . . . .. . Or ange.
lllinoistown ... . . ... 51 Colf ax , . ......... ... .. . Placer.
Imperial .. .. . . . . .. . 390 I mperial . . .. . ..... . . .. . I mperial.
Ingleside .... . ....•• 630 San Francisco .•. , , • ••• San Francisco.
Inglewood . .... ... .421 Inglewood . .... ... . . . .. L os Angeles.
Inglewood , .... , , . . . ,Los Angeles.
Fairview ...• .. •••. 629
Indian Rock., ...... 638 B erkeley , . .. . .... . .. .. . Alameda.
Inyo . . .... .. . ...... 221 Independence . . . . . . . .. . Inyo.
Amador.
Ione .. . . ....... . . , . 80 I one . . , . . , . . . .. . . . .... Los
Angeles.
Ionic ........ . .. .. •520 Los A ngel es .....•..•• • L os Angeles.
J ames A. Foshay .... 640 Los Angeles . ...... . .... .
Los Angeles • . ..... . . . . . L os Angeles.
J am es A. Garfield ... 566
Los Angeles ... .. , , ...•• L os Angeles.
James Madison . ..... 572
Laporte , . , , , , , , • , • , , , •• Plumas.
Jefferson . . . . . . . • . . 97
Janesville . . . .... . . 232 L assen , .... , , . , , , . .• • , • Lassen.
San F rancisco .... , ..••. San F rancisco.
Jewel .. . .. .. .. . ... 374
West H ollywood ..•. . .... Los Angeles.
John Marshall .••••. 636
John P . Jarman . ... . 669 San Jose .. •.. • . . .. .. .. .. Santa Clara.
San F rancisco . ... • ..••• San Francisco.
Jonathan .... .... .. 545
Joppa. ..•. .. ....... 508 Sa n J oa quin . .. .. ...... Fresno.
Jordan ...•••.••.. • . 654 L os Angeles ..........•. Los Angeles.
Santa An p; . . .• , , . , , , , , . • Orange,
Jubilee . .. , .... . .... 604
San Francisco . , ....... . San Francisco.
Justice ............ 549
Kauai .. ... . ... . ... 589 Lihue , . ....•. . . . •.. , ••• K auai, T. H.
Kaweah .... .. . ... .. 665 W oodlake . .• .. ... ...•. .• Tulare.
K eith ...... . ...... 187 Gilroy .... , , . , , . , • , • , , . Sant p; Clara.
K erman • • •.. . ...• .420 K erman .. . . • . • . .. .••• • • Fresno.
Keystone •. .. . •.•. . 161 Milton . . . • ..••... , . ••. • Calaveras.

408
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

Post Ofrlce.

County.

Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo .. ... .. .........•.. Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ...... 209 ~an Luis ~bispo ....•..... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon 'R . •••• 260 i::!an Franmsco .....•.... San Francisco.
Knox, Henry ........ 662 Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
La Brea . ........... 650 Los Angeles .... ......... Los Angeles.
La Cum bre ......... 642 Santa ·Barbara .... ... . .. Santa Ba~bara.
La Fayette ........ 126 Sebastopol .... .......... Sonoma.
Laguna Beach ....... 672 Lagn~a Beach .. .. .... ... Orange.
La Habra .......... 659 La Habra ... .. .... .. . ...Orange.
La .Jolla ........... 518 San Diego .. ...... ..... San Diego.
Lakeshore ......... 551 Oakland ..... ... ....... Alameda.
Lamanda Park ..... 627 Pasadena ... .. ... ... .... Los Angeles.
La Mesa ........... 407 La Mesa ................ San Diego.
Lancaster ...... , . .437 Lancaster .............. Los Angeles.
Lankershim ........ 542 North Hollywood ........ Los Angeles.
Landmark ......... 253 Esparto ................ Yolo.
La Puente ..... . ... 446 Puente .. ............... Los Angeles.
Larchmont .......... 614 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Las Pal mas .. ...... 366 Fresno ............ , .... Fresno.
Lassen ........... . 149 Susanville ... . ...... . ... Lassen.
Laurel ............. 245 Willows ... .. ... .... .... Glenn.
l,ebanon .......... .495 San Francisco .... . ...•. San Francisco.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie . . ...... 371 Honolulu ............... Hawaiian Ter.
Lexington ..... .... l 04 El Monte ............... Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts ........ 677 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Libertas ........... 466 Bakersfield ...... .... .. Kern.
Liberty .. .. · · ...... 299 Santa Clara ............ Santa Clara.
Lincoln .... .... . . . .4 70 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Lindsay ... ....... . 416 Lindsay ................ Tulare.
Live Oak . ......... 61 Oakland ....... ........ Alameda.
Livingston ......... 658 Livingston ............. Merced.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi .. . .............. :.San Joaquin.
Lomita ... ........ . 644 Lomita .. : .............. Los Angel eR.
Lompoc ............ 262 Lompoc ................ Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Beach ... . ..... .. . Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles .... . ..... . . Los Angeles.
Los Banos ... . . . ... 312 Los Banos .............. Merced.
Los Cerritos ........ 674 Long Beach ............. Los Angeles.
Los Gatos .... . . ... . 292 Los Gatos ..... ......... Santa Clara. ·
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton . . .. ... .... .... Sierra.
Loyalty ..... ...... 529 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Lynwood ........... 600 Lynwood ............... Los Angeles.
Ma(lera .. .... .. ... .. 280 Madera . . ............. ·Madera.
Madison ...... ... .. 23 Grass Valley : ......... ·Nevada.
Magnolia ........ .. 242 Santa Barbara ...... .... Santa Barbara.
Malta ... .. .. . ..... 661 Los Angeles . .. .. . . . .... Los Angeles.

40!l

GilAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
LOdge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Maricopa .......... 4:l4 Maricopa .... . . .. .. .... Kern.
Marin .... ...... .. . 191 San Rafael ... ......... . Marin.
M.urjposa ...... .... 24 Mariposa ........... .. . . Mariposa.
Martinez ... .. ..... 41 Martiuez .............. Contra Costa.
h1aui ......... .... . 472 Maui, Kahului .......... Ha·waiian 'I'cr.
Maxwell ....... .. . . 288 Maxwell ............... Colusa.
McCloud .. . ...... . . 430 McCloud ............... Siskiyou.
McKinley ....... . .. 347 Richmond . .. .. . ........ Contra Costa.
Melrose ............ 602 Los Angeles ....... . ... Los Angeles.
Menlo Park ........ 651 Menlo Park ............. San Mateo.
Menorah ........... 623 Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino .. .... ..... .. Mendocino.
Meridian .... . ..... 667 Glendale .. ~ .. ........ . .. Los Angeles.
Metropolitan ... . ... 646 Los Angeles............. Los Angeles.
Midway ........... 426 Taft ... .. .. ...... . . . .. Kern.
Military Service .... 570 San Francisco . . .........San Francisco
Mill Valley ..... .... 35ti Mill Valley ... . ... ... .. . Marin.
Mission .... .. . . ... . 169 San ]'rancisco . .. , ...... San Francjsco.
Mizpah . . .. . ..... . . 378 Los Angeles .... . . ..... . Los Angeles.
Modesto ..........• 675 Modesto ................ .Stanislaus.
Molino ............ 150 Tehama ...... .. . ..... . Tehama.
Moneta .......... . . 405 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Montebello ........ .451 Montebello .. . ... . ...... Los Angeles.
Monrovia .......... 308 Monrovia . . ... .. ....... Los Angeles.
Monterey .. ........ 21 i Monterey . .... ......... Monterey.
Monte Vista ........ 655 Long Beach ............. Los Angeles.
Morgan Hill ........ 463 Morgan Hill. .. .. . .. . ... Santa Clara.
Morning Star .... .. . 68 Stockton .. ... . . . . .... .. San ,Joaquin.
Mosaic ............ 218 Livermore ............. Alameda.
Mount Davidson ... .481 San ]'ra.ncisco .......... San Francisco.
Mount Diablo ... .. . .448 Concord ...... .. ... . ... Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville .. ......... . Sonoma.
Mount Moriah .. . ... 44 San Francisco ... . . .. ... San Francisco.
Mount Olive ........ 506 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Mount Oso .. .... .. .460 Tracy ................. San Joaquin.
Mount Vernon ...... 517 San F ran cisco . . .... .. .. San Francisco.
Mountain Shade ... .. 18 Downieville ...... .. .... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ... . ... 281 Anderson .............. Shasta.
Mountain View.. .. .. 194 Mountain View . . ... ... . Santa Clam.
Natoma ............ 64 F olsom ............ .. .. Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo ................ Solano.
Needles ... ... . ... .. 326 Needles .... ." .......... San Bernardino.
Neptune ....• ...... 619 Long B each ......•.... Los Angeles.
Nevada ............ 13 Nevada City . . ..... . ... Nevada.

410
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Post Office.

County.

Newville ....... .. .. 205 Paskenta .............. Tehama.
Nicolaus .... . ...... 129 Wheatland ............. Yuba.
Normal Heights ..... 632 San Diego ..........••.. San Diego.
North Butte .... .... 230 Gridley .... ......... .. . Butte.
North East ......... 266 Fort Bidwell .. . ...•..... Modoc.
Northern Light...... 190 Millville ... .... .... .... Shasta.
North Star.......... 91 Fort Jones .............. Siskiyou.
Norwalk .... .... . . . 315 Norwalk ......•..•.... . Los Angeles.
Oakdale ..... . ...... 275 Oakdale .. . .. ...... . .. . Stanislaus.
Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ........ . ...... Alameda.
Oakland .. . . .... . .• 188 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Oasis .... . ....... .. 664 El Centro ....... ....... Imperial.
Occidental . . . . . . . . . 22 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Ocean Park ......... 369 Oceanpark ........... . . Los Angeles.
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ..... . ........ San Diego.
Ojai ............... 663 Ojai ..•.... . .........•.• Ventura.
Olive Branch ....... 269 Tulare ....... .. ...... .• Tulare.
Olivet ............. 205 Corning ...... . ........•Teharna.
Ontario •........... 301 Ontario ..... ..... .. .... San Bernardino.
Ophir ...........•.. 33 Murphy's .............. Calaveras.
Orange Grove . . . . ... 293 Orange .... .. . . .... .. .. Orange.
Oriental .. . .. .... .. 144 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Orland ............ 265 Orland .. ........ ... ... Glenn.
Orosi .............. 383 Orosi .................. Tulare.
Oroville ....... .... . 103 Oroville ..............• Butte.
Owensmouth .•..... 611 Owensmouth ........••. Los Angeles.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard .... ... . . .... ... Ventura.
Pacific .... : ........ 136 San Francisco . ...... ... San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove ........... Monterey.
Pajaro ........... .. 110 ·watsonville ... . . ..... . . Santa Cruz.
Palestine .... .. .... . 351 Los Angeles . . .. .. ... ... Los Angeles.
Palisades ......•.. . 631 Santa Monica ........... Los Angeles.
Palms ... ..... ..... 512 Palms ........ ... ...... Lo~ Angeles.
Palo Alto... . ....... 346 Palo Alto ....... . ...... . Sarta Clara.
Palos Verdes ........ 389 Long Beach . . .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union ...... 17 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Park .... .... ... . .. 449 San Francisco . ...... . . . San Franci9co.
Park Boulevard ..... 568 Oakland ..............•. Alameda.
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco .. ..... .. . San Francisco.
Pasadena . . ... .... . 272 Pasadena ..... ........ . Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ..... ... 286 Paso Robles ............. San Luis Obispo.
Patterson ......... .488 Patterson ........... . .. Stanislaus.
Paul Revere ........ 462 San Francisco ... ... ... . San Francisco.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

411
County.

Pearl Harbor .•.••• 598 Honolulu ..........•.... Hawaiian Ter.
Penrhyn •.......•.. 258 Penryn .....•.......... Placer.
Pentalpha •..•.... . . 202 Los Angeles ..•..•.....• Los Angeles.
Perris ............ .411 Perris . • ......... • ....• Riverside.
Petaluma .......•.. 180 Petaluma ...........••. Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ......... San Bernardino.
Piedmont .......... 521 Piedmont •.•••..••••.•• Alameda.
Pinole ....•........ 353 Pinole ............. ... . Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .... . .... .429 Pittsburg .......•.. . ... Contra Costa.
Plumas .•.••...•• .• • 60 Quincy ••...•.•.•.•••.•. Plumas.
Plymouth ••.•...•.. 560 Oakland .........•...••. Alameda.
Poinsettia ••••••.•• 633 Ventura .• .. . .•...• . •••• Ventura.
Point .............. 503 Richmond ............... Contra Costa.
Point Firmin .•... • . 558 San Pedro ..•... • ......• Los Angele:i.
Point Loma ...•••.•• 620 San Diego .. . ..•........ San Diego.
Pomona ............ 246 Pomona . ........• . ...•.. Los Angeles.
Porterville •.••..•.. 303 Porterville .•......••• . •• Tulare.
Presidio .....•.•... 354 San Francisco .. . ....... San Francisco.
Progressive ........ 578 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Provident .....••.•. 609 Sacramento .......•.•••. Sacramento.
Pyramid . •.....•.. ,562 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Queen Beach ...•... 540 Long Beach ....•........ Los Angeles.
Ramona ............ 457 Monterey Park .•.. , ••.. Los Angeles.
Reading ............ 254 :J;tetlding ................ Shasta.
Redlands ... , ...•.. ,300 Redlands .....••......•. San Bernardino
Redondo ............ 328 Redondo ................ Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City ........... San Mateo.
Reedley ..... .. ..... 304 Reedley .. . ............. Fresno.
Reseda .....•. . .... 666 Reseda ..............•.. Los Angeles.
Rialto .............. 582 Rialto .................. San Bernardino.
Richmond ..• . . . .... 375 San Francisco ... . ...••• San Francisco.
Rio Vista ........... 208 Rio Vista ............... Solano.
Rising Light ...•.. ,397 Huntington Park ....•.. Los Angeles.
Riverbank ......... 459 Riverbank . .. •• . ...•..•• Stanislaus.
Riverdale .......... 496 Riverdale ............... Fresno.
Riverside ••..... • •. 035 Riverside .•.•.... • •...•• Riverside.
Rockridge . . . ..•..• ,468 Oakland ......•....•••. , Alameda.
Roosevelt ........... 500 San Francisco . . ........ San Fruncisco
Rose's Bar .......... 89 Smartsville ............. Yuba.
Roseville .....•. •.. . 222 Roseville .......•...•... Placer.
Russian River •..•.• 181 Windsor ...... ..••. ...•. Sonoma.
Sacramento . . . . . . . • 40 Sacramento .....•.• . . . •• Sacramento.
Saint Helena ....... 93 St. Helena .... ... ....... Napa.

413

GfiAND LODGE OF CALIFOfiNIA

412
L odge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

P ost Office.

Lodge.
County.

Salinas .... ... . ..... 204 Salinas .............•... Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 Hollister ................ San Benito.
San Buenavm1tura .. 214 Ventura ................ Ventura.
San Clemente ....... 671 San Clemente ........... Orange.
San Diego .......... 35 San Diego .............• San Diego.
San Dimas .......•. 428 San Dimas ....... .... .. • Los Angeles.
San Gabriel ....... . 546 San Gabriel .•.......•.• Los Angeles.
San Gorgonio ... .... 668 Banning ..... ..... . ..... Riverside.
Sanger ............. 316 Bangor ................. Fresno.
San Bernardino ... ,348 San Bernardino ...... ... San Bernardino.
San Fernando ....... 343 Fernanuo .............•• Los Angeles.
San Francisco ...... 360 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ... ...... . .• Riverside.
San Joaquin ....•... 19 Stockton .... : . ....... .'.San Joaquin.
San Jose ... .'....•.• 10 San J.oso ............... Santa Clara.
San Ma too ......... 226 San Mateo .............. San Mateo.
San Miguel ......... 285 San Miguel. ............ San Luis Obispo
San Pasqual ........ 452 Pasadena .. .... ........ Los Angeles.
San Pedro . .... ..... 332 Sau Pedro . .. .... ..... .. Los Angeles.
Santa Ana .......... 2-H 8auta Ana .............. Orange.
Santa Barbara ...... lD):l · Santa Barbara .... . . .... Santa Barbara.
Santa Crnz ......... 38 Santa Cruz ............. Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ........ 302 Kings City ............. Monterey.
Santa Maria . .... ... 580 Ramona .. ............... San Diego.
Santa Monica ....... 307 Santa Monica ........... Los Angeles.
Sau ta Paula......... 291 Santa P aula ...... . ..... Ventura.
Santa Rosa ... ... ... 5i Santa Rosa ... .... ..... . Sonoma.
'San Simeon .... ..... 196 Cambria . . ...... . ..... . San Luis Obispo
:3d1ofield ........... 443 Schofield B:uracks .... . . Hawaiian T<:r.
Seal Beach .. . ..... . 616 Seal Beach ... ... .. . ... Orange.
Seu I Rock .......... 536 San .l!'rancisco ...... .. .. San Francisco.
Searchlight ........ 567 Long Beach .. .. .........Los Angeles.
Seaport ....... , .... 550 San Francisco: ...... • ...San Francisco
Seasine ............ 504 Long Beach . .. . . ... . .... Los Angeles.
Security .. ..... .... 581 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Selma .. .. ... . .. . .. 277 8elma .. ...... . ..... . .. Fresno.
Semper Virens . .. • . . 552 Eureka .......•......... Humboldt..
Seqnoia ............ 349 Oaklancl ... ........ .. . . Alameda.
SerYiee .. .......... 594 Long Beach ............ Los Angelos.
Sierra Madre .. .. : .. 408 Sierra Maclre .... . . ..... Los Angrl.e~.
Siena Valley ....... 184 Sierrnville ... . . .. . ..... Sierra.
Signal ............. 543 Long Beach . ............ Los Angeles.

No.

Po~t

Office.

County.

Silvcyville ... ...... 201 Dixon .. ... ·............ Solano.
Silver Cord ... . ..... 505 Santa Ana . . .. ... . . . .. . . Orange.
Silver Gate ..... . ... 296 San Diego ... . . .. .. .. .. San Diego.
Silver · Ti·owel. . ... .. .415 Los Angeles .... ... ..... .!..os Angeles.
Sincerity ....... . .. 132 Green ,·ille ....•... . .. . . Plumas.
Sisson . . .. ... ...... 310 Mount Shasta .... . ...... Sis kiyou.
Smyrna ............ 532 Ceres .......... .... ... S~nnislnus
Snow Mountain ..... 271 Stony l•'ord ........ . .. . . Col usa.
Sojourner .......... 507 Monrovia .. . ... ......... Los Angeles.
Solano ..... . ....... 229 Vallejo ..... ... . .... . ... ::Jola110.
Soto yo me ... .. .. . .. . 123 Healdsburg ............ S onoma.
Southern California . . 278 Los Angeles .......... . ·Los Angeles.
South Gate..... . .... 320 L os Angeles ... .. . _. . .... Los Angeles.
Southlnncl .......... 618 Los Angeles .......... ·Los Angeles.
South ParlL ........ 563 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
South Pasadena ... . . 367 South Pasadena ......... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco. 212 San Francist•o . ... . ..... San Francis~o.
South West ... . . : ... 283 National City ...... . ... . San Diego.
:::lperanza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco .... . ..... San Frnncisr o.
John D. Spreckels .•• 657 San Diego ... .'...•••.... San Diego.
Standard ... .... . ... 44U Oa1dand .. ...... .. . . ... Alam ecla.
Stanislaus .... . . .. . . 206 Modesto ...... . . .. .. . .. Stauishl\ls.
Starr King.... .. ... . 3!4 San Prancisc o .. .. . . . ... San FrnnciHco.
Stockton ....... ; ... 498 Stockton ........ .. .... San Joaquiu.
Suisun .. .. . ........ 55 Su isn n . ... . . . . . ...... . . Solano.
Summit .... : ....... 112 Knights Feny .. . ....... Stanislaus.
Sun Gard.e n ... . ... . 530 Fresno ... . . ......• . .• . Fresno
Snnnysine ... .... .. : 577 Los Angeles . ........... Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale ... . _. .. . .!'i l 1 Sunnyvale ....... .. .. .. Santa Clara.
Senrise ......... . .. 522 Los Angeles ........•.. Los Ani::cles.
Sunset . . .... ... . ... 352 LoR AngeleR ........ . .... Los Angeles.
Snrprise Valley .. .. . 235 Cedarville . . .. . . . . . . .. . Modoc .
S. W. Hackett ...... 574 San Diego ....... . . . .... San 'Di<>go.
Table Mountain .. . .. 124 Cherokee ........ .. . .. . . Butt.r .
Taft ............... 516 Taft ... .. ... ..... ..... Kern.
'l'ehaclinpi .... .. .... 313 Tehachapi ... . .. .. . . . . . Kern .
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento . .... .... ... Snrru mnnto.
Temes~al ..... . ..... i\14 Corona . ....... . ....... Rh·er8i<le.
Temblor .......... .477 Fellows ................ Kern.
Temple City ........ 612 Temple ..........•.......Los Angeles.
Templ e ............ 14 Sonoma . . .... . .. . .. . ... Sonoma.
Texas .. . ........... 46 Sun Juan . . ....... . . . .. . San Benito.

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

415

County.

Thousand Oaks .... .478 Berkeley •..•......•.•• Alameda.
Three Pillars ....•.. 613 Sacramento •.••••.•••• Sacramento.
Torrance ........... 447 Torrance ............... Los Angeles.
Traver ......•..•••• 294 Kingsburg ..... . ....... Fresno.
Triangle •.•.•....•. 548 Venice .....•.... . ..••.• Los Angeles.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville ............ Trinity.
Truckee ....•....... 200 Truckee ............... Nevada.
Truth ....••......• 597 Los Angeles .... . ....... Los Angeles.
Tujunga ........... 592 Tujunga ....•.........•. Los Angeles.
Tuolumne . . . . . • . • . . 8 Sonora .. . . . ........... Tuommne.
Turlock ............ 395 1'urlock ................ Stanislaus.
Tuscan ............ 261 Williams .............. Colusa.
Tyrian ..... . ....... 439 Manteca .... . .......... San Joaquin.
Union ............. 58 Sacramento . . ... . ...... Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 Glendale ...... . ........ Los Angeles.
University ...•....• 394 Los Angeles ... . ........ Los Angeles.
Upland ............ 419 Upland ................ San Bernardino.
Utopia ......•...... 537 Los An{;"eles ........•. .-Los Angeles.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville .... . ......... Solano.
Vallee de France . . . . 329 Los Angeles ........•..• Los Angeles.
Vallejo ." ......... . . 487 Vallejo .. . . . . . . . ....... Solano.
Valley ............. 135 Linden ................ San Joaquin.
Valley Forge ...... 587 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Van Nuys ......... .450 Van Nuys ....... . ..•... Los Angeles.
Veritas ............ 640 San Francisco ....•.•••.. San Francisco.
Vermont Square .... 515 Los Angeles •....•..•.. Los Angeles.
Vesper ............. 84 Red Bluff . .............. Tehama.
Viiteran ............ 373 Sawtelle ......... . ... . . Los Angeles.
Victorville ....•.••. 634 Victorville .•.......•..•. San Bernardino.
Victory ............ 474 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Visalia ............. 128 Visalia ................ Tulare.
Vitruvius .......... 145 Bloomfield ............. Sonoma.
Volcano . . ..... . .... 56 Volcano ............ .. . Amador.
Warren G. Harding.579 North Sacramento .......Sacramento.
Wasco .......•...•. 583 Wasco .................. Kern.
Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .... . ......• Sacramento.
Waucoba . . ........ 413 Big Pine ...... . .•...... Inyo.
Welcome ........... 255 Lemoore ............... Kings.
West Adams .•. . ..•. 565 Los Angeles .....•...... Los Angeles.
Western Star .. . . .. . 2 Shasta ................ Shasta.
W.est Gate ..... . .... 335 Los Angeles ..... . ... . .. Los Angeles.

Lodge.

No.

West Lake ......... 392
Westwood .......... 501
White Pine ....•...• 555
Whittier ..... . .. . .. 323
Willits ....... . ...•. 365
Willow Glen .....•.. 676
Wilmington ........ 198
Wilshire ........... 445
Winnedumah ....... 287
\Voodbridge ........ 131
\Voodland .....•..•. 156
Woodstock ..•...... 491
Yerba Buena ........ 403
Yolo .......•....... 81
Yorba Linda ...... .469
York .............. 423
Yosemite ...... . .. • . 99
Yount ............. 12

Post Office.

Co unt y.

Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
Westwood ............• Lassen.
Weed ....•......•..•....Siskiyou.
Whittier •........•..•.. Los Angeles.
Willits ............ . ... Mendocino.
Willow Glen .•..••..•••• Santa Clar11:.
Wilmington ....•......• Los Angeles.
Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
Bishop ..............•• Inyo.
Woodbridge ..........•• San J oaquin.
Woodland .........•••• Yolo.
Alameda . . . . ........... Alameda.
Oakland ......•.......• Alameda.
Yolo ...........•.....• Yolo.
Yorba Linda ........... Orange.
Watts ................. Los Ange!P.s.
Merced ..... . ..• . ..•... Merced.
Napa ....... ~ .......... Na pa.

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LOCATION OF LODGES
Alphabetically Arranged

Post O!'!lce.
Lodge.
No.
Adin ........... """·",,,., •••.• ,Adin . ·..........•.•.........•... 250
Alhambra ..................... : Alhambra ...................... 322
''
............... . ...... Granada ....................... 608
Alameda .......•...•.•.•.•....•• Oak Grove ...............•..... 215
''
. .. .................... . Apollo . ........................ . 396
''
.. ... ................. .. Woodstock .. . .. ... ............ . 491
Alleghany .................•... ,Forest . ... ... ...........•....... 66
Altadena ..... , .....•••...••.•• Altadena .............•........ 678
Alturas ......................... Alturas .........•............... 248
Anaheim .......•............... Anaheim .........•.•...•....... 207
Anderson .....•................ ,Mount Shasta ................•.. 281
Angels Camp .•................. Bear Mountain ........•.....•.. 76
Antioch .... . ................••. Antioch ...........•......•• . . . . 175
Arroyo Grande ................. ,Arroyo ................... ...... 274
Auburn ........... ... ........ . . ,Eureka ............ . ... ..... .... 16
Arbuckle .....................•. Arbuckle .................•..... 182
Arcadia ................•..••••• Arcadia .......•....••..•...... 547
Arcata .............•.•••.•.•..••• Ai:cata ......................... 106
Artesia ... , ..................••. Artesia ........•.....•• , ....•... 877
Atascadero ..................... Atascadera ............. .. ...... 493
Avalon .......... .... .......... ,Catalina Island ........ , ....... 524
Azusa ....... . .......... . ....... Azusa .. ....................... 805
Bakersfield ...........•...•••••• Bakersfield ...........•.. . ...... 224
''
.................... . Libertas ....................... . 466
''
..................... Caledonia ....................... 486
''
.. .................. . Security ..... . .................. 581
Baldwin Park., ................ Baldwin Park .................. 660
Banning ...... .. ............... .San Gorgonio ...........•...... 668
Beckwith .... . ..•........... • ... Hope ......... . ..... . .......... ,234
Bell . ........................... Bell ............................. ,483
Bellflower .............•.....••. Bellflower .........•............ S23
Belvedere Gardens •......•.•••.• The Gardens ................... 621
Benicia ...........•...•.......• ,Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley ....................... Durant ....... , ........ . ........ 268
''
...................... . Berkeley .... . ................. . 363
''
.... . ................... Thousand Oaks ................. 478
''
....................... Charter Rocle. .................. 410
''
.......... .. ......... .. En.st Bay . ..................... . 489
''
.................. ... . . Henry Morse Stephens ........... 541

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

417

Post l l!'!lce.
Lodge.
No.
Berkeley .....•......•.•.••••••• Francis K. Shattuck ............. 571
''
....................... Hillcrest ...... .. ...... . . . ...... 573
''
... . .. .... ......•....... Indian Rock . ................... 638
Beverly Hills ....... ... . . ..... .. Beverly Hills ......... ,' ........ ,528
Big Pine .............. . ........ Waucoba. ....................... 413
Biggs ....... . ... . ..........•... Emmanuel ......... , ............ 318
Bishop .... . •.. . ................ Winnedumah .. .. . .. . .... ...••. . 287
Bloomfield .................. , .. Vitruvius ....... . .............. 145
Blythe .................. .. .. . . . .Blythe ..... .... ...... ..... •..... 473
Brawley ........................ Brawley ........................ 402
Brea ...•• . ..••••••••. . •••••.•. Citro! ....•• •• ..••••••••.••.••• 656
Brentwood ... , ...•.... .. . , ... , , Brentwood . ............... . ... . 845
Bridgeport ...•...•...•.•.• : •••• Alta ......................... . 333
Buena Park .. .................. Buena Park .................... 357
Burbank ........................ Bll'rbnnk ...................... ,406
Burlingame .. . ... . ............. ,Burlingame ...... .. ........... ,400
Calexico ........................ Calexico ........................ 412
Calistoga ... ... .. : . ...••......• Calistoga . . .... . ............ .... 233
Cambria ..... ... .............•.. San· Simeon ... ..... . ........... . 196
Camp bell ... .................... Charity ........................ 362
Campton ville •.................. Gravel Range .. .. ............... 59
Carpinteria. ................. . .. Carpinteri11; . ... .. ............... 444
Castroville .. .. .......•.....•... Confidence .. . .. ......... ....... 203
Cedarville ... . .................. Surprise Valley .. . ............. 235
Centerville ... . .......... . ....•• <\.lameda . .. . . . . •. . .. . ..•...... . , 167
Ceres .. . ..... • •.•....•.•.....•.• Smyrna. ....... . ...•............ 532
Cherokee .. . .... ........•.•.•..• Table Mountain ...........•... ,124
Chico .•.•..•••....•...•...••..•!Jhico ............ ..... . . ..•.•.• . 111
Chino .......•.......••.••.•.••• Chino Valley .. . . .. .......•.•.. ,427
Chowchilla. ..••.......•...•••••. Chowchilla .........•........... 485
Chula. Vista ..................... Chula Vista .................... 626
Claremont •..•••••••••••.••••••• Claremont .. .. ...... .• ....•..... 436
Cloverdale ...•........••••.•.•• Cur tis . . .. . .......•... . • ... . . . ,,140
Clovis ...• . •..•....•.•.•••.•.•.• Clovis .•.......•.•.............. 417
Coachella. . .•...•.•.....••••••••• Coachella .... . ....•............. 476
Coalingai ••.••..•.•.•.••..••••••• Coaling11; ....................... 387
Colfax .......................... Illinoistown ............ . ....... 51
Colton ...•••.•.•..•..•..•..•••• ,Ashlar ......................... 306
Corcoran • ....•.•.•..••••••••••• Corcoran .... .. ....... . ...••••.. 490
Coron11; .......••.........•.•••• , Temescal .... ..... ....... .. .. .. . 314
Courtland .• . ••..•.•..•.••••••.• Franklin .... . .......... .. . .. .. , 143
Covelo .....• •• .•.•.•.•••••••••• Covelo ........................ . 231
Colusa ....••••.•••.•.••••••••••,Cohisa .............•...•.•.••... 240
Covina ••••....••.••.••••••••••• Covina .................•....... 334

418
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

Nu.

Compton .•...••.•..••.•••••••••• Anchor .....................•.. 273
Concord .......••••...••.••••••• Mt. Diablo ...........•.•....•.. 448
Corning .....•.....•.....•.•..•• Olivet ... ..........•.......•.•.. 205
Coronado .•..••.•.• . •.••..•••• : • Coronado ....................... 441
Crescent City ...........•...•.• Crescent .........•............. 45
Crockett ...............•......• Carquinez ...................•.. 337
Culver City ..................... Culver City .................... 467
Cupertinb .............•....••.. Cupertino ...... . ............•.. 510
Daly Cit)" .............. . ....... Crocker ...............•.•.•.... 454
Davis .......................... Athens ......................... 228
Delano .•...........•..••••••• Delano ..•.••...•.....•..•.... 309
Dinuba ............•..••••.••• Dinuba •......•....•.•••..•..•. 385
Dixon .........••..•..•....••• Silveyville ....••........•..... 201
Downey ...••••...•.........•.• Dowbey ........ ..•.•.•••...••• 2~0
Downieville •.•••..•....••.•••• Mountain Shade . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 18
Dutch Flat .................•.• blay ........••....•.....•..••. 101
Dunsmuir .•.•.....••......•••• 'Dunsmuir ...•...........••••.. 297
El Cajon ..••.........•....•••.. El Cajon Valley ...••..•.•...•.. 576
East San Diego ........•..•..••• East San Diego .•...•..•....•.. 561
Elk Grove ............•.•.•••• Elk Grove •...•..•..•••.•.....• 173
El Centro •.........•..•.•••.•• El Centro •...••••....•..••.••• 384
''
..................... . Oasie . . ...................... . 664
El Dorado .......•........•.•• ·Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • • . . • • 43
El Monte ..•.......••..••••.•• Lexlhgtott .. ... ..•.•••.••.••••• 104
El Segundo .................... El SegundJ .......•.....••..... 507
Escondido . . . • • . . • . . • . . • • ...• Consuelo_ ..........•....•• : •••• 325
Elsinore ••.........•.•..••.••.• Elsinore .....•..•.••••.. • •.••• 289
Escalon . ....................... Escalon ....................... 591
Espatto .....•....••••.• . •.•••• La.ndtnark •....•. •. ...•...••.. 253
Etna Mills ..•......•..•.•.••.•• Evening Star ..••....••.•••...• 186
Eureka •.....•..........•...... Humboldt ..•.....•..•.•....•.• 79
''
........................ . Semp~t Virens ................. 552
Exeter .• .•... .• ....••..••••••• Exeter ..••..•• ..•. ... ••.. .•.• 424
Fairfax ...•..........•..•. •• ..• Fairfax ............. .• •.•.•••. 556
Fallbrook ••......•.•.•...••..• Fallbtook .•...•...••.•..•..••• 917
Fall Ri'1er Mille ....•.....•...••.Fort Crbbk .................... 575
Fellows ...... '. •..•.•.••••.•.•• Temblc!t •.••.............•..... 477
Fexndale ••..........•.•...•••.Ferb.dll.lB ••....••.....•..•••.•• 193
Fillmore ...........•..•.•••••• Fillmore .....•..........•..•.. 379
Florence .......••.•...•.•.•••.• .Ploten~e •...•.••.••.•......••• 649
Forbestown •..........••..•••• Forbestowrt ..••..•••.•••...••• 50
Folsom .•......•..•. • .•.•..•..• Natoma •..•.••.....•...•.•••.• 64
Fontana ..........•....•..•..•.Fontaha ....••.••......••••.... 653
Fort Bidwell ....•....•• : .••.•• N ortb East •...•.•..••..•..••. 266

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA'

419

Lodge.

No.

Fort Bragg ..•........•...•.••• Fort Bragg •.................. 361
Fort Jones •....•.....•..•••••• North Star . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . • • • . • 91
Fortuna .....• . •.........••...• Eel River ..........•...••...•.• 147
Fresno ........................ Fresno ....•••..•..•..••.•••.. 247
''
....................... , Las Palmas ................... 366
''
.. ....... . ... .... : ...... Center ....................... . 465
''
.................... ... .. . Sun Garden ................... . 530
Fullerton •••••....... . . .' ••.•.. Fullerton ..•.•...•...•.•..••.•. 339
''
....· ................. Azure .. ................ . ....... .333
Galt ....•.................•.•• Galt ...••...•.•••..••......... 267
Garden Grove .................. Garden Grove ... ..... ... .. .. .. 586
Gardena •..........••••••••••• Ga1dena· .......•....•...•..•.•. 372
Georgetown •....•..••••••••••• Georgetown • • . • • . . . • . • . • • • • • • • 25
Gilroy •.••..........•.....••.• Keith .....•.•.....•.....•.... 187
Glendale ..............•......• Unity ...........•......•..•.. 368
''
........................ Glendale ....................... 544
''
. .... . ....... . .. . ... . . Meridian ..................... . 667
Glendora ........... , ...... .. .. Glendora ..••...•..•...••.•..•• 404
Grafton ••.•...•.....•..••••• : • Grafton ....•..•.....••.•..•.•. 141
Grass Valley ..••.... .• •..•.••• Madison .............•.....••• 23
Greenville ...........•••.•••.. Sincerity .....•..••..•.......•• 132
Gridley ••.......••......•.•••• North Butte ......•..•.•...••. 230
Guadalupe ...••......•....••••• Guadalupe ..•...•.•...•..••.... 231
Guerneville ...................• Mount Jackson .......••••..••• 295
Hammonton ..•... . , •..•...•.•. Hammonton ...............•.. .433
Hanford ...•.........•..•..••. Hanford . , ...•...• , .....••.••. 279
Hawthorne ............•••.••••. Hawthorne •.......••.......••• 647
Haywards .•.... .. ..••...•.•••• Eucalyptus •..•..•.••..••...•.. 243
Healdsburg •.........•...••..• Sotoyome ......••....•••...... 123
Hemet ... • , ......... • ....•.•.•• Hemet ..... ..•...... • . , • , . , ... ,615
Hermosa Beach ..•......•••.•.• ,Hermosa ...•.... , ••....• . , •.• , .557
Hilo, T. H ..•..•.....•...•.••••• Kilauea. •......••.•...••... , .. . 330
Hornitos ••.• . ••......•.••.•.•• Hornitos ...........•......•.•• 98
Hollister •.......•..........••• San Benito ..•.••••..•..••.•.•. 211
Hollywood .....•... .. ......... Hollywood ..• • ....•••••••....• 355
Holtville •.....•...•...•.•..••. Holtville ....•... ... ... , •....•• 425
Honolulu, T. H •. •..••••.••••• : •.Hawaiian ..•..•.....•••.....••. 21
"
••. • ............ le Pr ogres de l 'Oceanie ......... 3 7l
''
................ Honolulu ..................... . 409
"
· · · · · · · · · ··.·· · · Pearl Harbor .... , ........... . 598
Huntington Beach .• •. ......... Huntington Beach ..••.......•. 380
Huntington Park ....•...•..... Rising Light •..•...•...•.••••. 397
Igo ..••.••....•..•..•....••••• Clinton .........•...••.. . ....• 119
Imperial ........•...•..••.•••• Imperial ......... , ......•... , . 390

420
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

No.

Independence .............•..•• Inyo ..•..............••.•..•.. 221
Inglewood ••..........•..•...• Inglewood •...•....•...• . ..... 421
''
........ . ............ Fairview ....................... 629
Ione ...•.•. ; ........•..•.....• Ione .. ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • 80
Jackson ..•.....•.••.•.....•..• Amador .......•.•... . ...•...• 65
Kahului, T. H .....•....... . .... Maui ..........•.•..... . ...... 472
Kerman: .•...... • ..•..........• Kerman ........ . ......•.. . •... 420
Kingsburg ...... . . . .. . . ; ..•..• Traver . ....... •. ...•. . ...... . . 294
King City ...... . . .... . ..... . ...Santa Lucia .•• • . . •... . .. . . . ... 302
Knights Ferry .....•...... . ..... Summit ..........•..•.•.•....• 112
La Habra ..•.•...•. . .•.•. • .••. La Habra. . • ...•.....• • ........ 659
Laguna Bea.ch ..•..•.. • .....•... Laguna Beach . . ............... 672
Lakeport ...•.. .. ... ; .. .. .... . .. Hartley • •.......•.. .• ... . .... 199
La Jolla .. ... .... .. . .. .... . ... . . La Jolla ...... . . . . ...... . ...... Jl8
La Mesa ••..•.• ~ ...•.•....•..• La Mesa ..............••...... 407
Lancaster •... .• ...•.•..•..•.. . Lancaster ......•............•. 437
Lassen ...•.......•... . ... . ..•• Janesville ......... . : .... .. ... . 232
Lemoore ... . .• ; .......... .-•.•. Welcome ...... . .....•.... . .... 255
Lihue ... . ....... . ...... . .... . . . Kauai . .. . ... . .. .. .. . ..... .. .. 589
Lincoln ....•....•.•. ... . • ..... Gold Hill . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 32
Linden .... . ... ; ..•.••••••••... Valley . ....•... . ......••....•• 135
Lindsay . .....••. .• ..•.....•.•• Lindsay .........•.. • •.. . ..... 416
Livermore •.... , •.....•. • •...•• Mosaic • .... • ..•.•. . •.•... . .... 218
Livingston .. . ...... . •.. .. .. •••. Livingston ......• . .•. .. . .• . ... . 658
Lodi . . •......•.. . ...••....••.. Lodi .....•... . ..• . .••..•.• . .•. 256
Lomita . ...... . ... . .... . .... ·.... ..Lomita • .. . . . ..•.• •. . .. ....... , 644
Lompoc .•.•..•. .. . . .•..•••.. •• Lompoc .....••..•.......... .• . 262
Long Beach .••••.....•...••.•• Long Beach .•...••........• • •. 327
''
... . ........ . ...... Palos Verdes ..... . ........... 389
••..... • .. . ..•..•.• Seaside .•... . .•. . .. . . .. . . ..... 504
"
. .. ..•... •.. .......Queen Beach ••••• • •.... • • . . . . . . 540
"
•
• • •• ••. • ..•••••••.Signal ••....•.• .. •••.......••. 543
"
.
..•.......••..•..
.Searchlight ... • •...•... . .•..•.. 567
"
..
................
All States . . ... .. .. .. . . .. ..... . 593
.
"
....
.
•..
.
...
..
.....
Service
. ............ . . . .... . .. 619
"
.....•.........•... . Neptune . ..... .. .•••. .. . .. .. . .. . 619
"
. . • . • • . • . . . . • • • • • • • Monte Vista • ... . •..•..•. . .. • .. 655
"
................... Los Cerritos . .. .. . . ..... . ..... . 674
"
Los Angeles ......... •.. • .....• Los Angeles . . . . • • . . • . . . . . . . . . • 42
. . . . . . • . . . . • • . . • . • ..•Pentalpha. ........•. • •. • •..... 202
"
•... . ............ . ; Southern California ••. • ... . .. • 278
"
.. • ..•.. • •.••.....• East Gate ..... , ...•.. •. •• .• .. • 290
"
••• . ........•.••... Hollenbeck .... •• .•..•......••. 319
"

Pos t Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

421

Lodge.

N o.

Los Angeles • ••.......••..••..• South Gate ...... .. ....... • .... 320
• • .. . •.•• , .• . .... . • Vallee de France . .• •.•........ 329
"
......•. • •....••.•• West Gate .... .• ......•........ 335
"
..... . ..•.•......•. Palestine ......... . •........ .. . 351
"
• , ....• . .. • •.•• , . .• Sunset .. .. ..•.. ..• ... .. .... . .. 352
"
..........•..•...•• Golden State ......•.•....•..... 358
"
. . ......... .. ...... Mizpah .... . .••... . ...... . ... . 378
"
. .. ....... . .... . ... Highland Park . . ..•.... .... .. .. 382
"
..... ... .... . . . : ... West Lake . ....•..... . .. . ..... 392
"
.... .. •. . ... . .••... University .................... 394
"
•....•.. . .. • .... .. . Moneta .•. . ..•• . .........•.... 405
"
•....• • ....•.. • ..•• Arlington .......•••.. • .. . .... . 414
"
...........•..•. . .• Silver Trowel ...•• • ... .. ... . .. 415
"
. • . . .•........•• , .. Elysian .. .... .....•. .• •. . . . ... 418
"
....... . ..... . .. . .. Eagle Rock ........... . . . .. . ... 422
"
••..
; . •. ......••.•• Acacia .. • ..•..• • •. .. ... . •... .438
"
•.•
.
....
. .••..... . • Wilshire ... . .. . ........... . .•. 445
"
........ . ..... .. . • . Henry S. Orme .. • ... • .. . ...... 458
"
..... . . . ....... . .. . .America . . .. .. . .... .. ... . •.. . . 475
"
....... . .. •• ••....• Clarence F. Smith •...... . .. • ... 482
"
........ . .. • ..•. . •• Albert Pike .....•.... • ....• . .. 484
"
...•.......••.•.•••.Garvanza •.. , •..•..••••.•••••• 492
"
•. .. .•...•. . . . ..... M t. Olive ..• . •.•. • .... • .•••••. 506
"
...... • •••... • .•.•. Benj. Franklin . . • .•..•...••.• . 509
•.. • •.••••.••.•••.• Cahuenga .. ; . . ........... . .... 513
"
.............. •• .• • Vermont Square . •..• • ••.....••. 515
"
•.•. . ...•.. • .• . •.•• Euclid .. . ... . ........... . ...... 519
"
....
. ......••.••.•. Ionic .... • •.•. . •.. • ..•... . ••.•. 520
"
•••..
• .. .. ....•...• Sun:rise .... . . . ....... . .. . ...... 522
"
•.•.......••• •. •.. • Covenant . ..• . ...•....... •••••. 527
"
........•.....• . ..• Loyalty • . . • . . .•.•... . . •. ...••. 529
•.... ... .. • .......• Alexander Hamilton . . . .. ...... . 535
"
•.•.. • ............. Utopia ... . . . ....•.•..•...•.•... 537
"
•...• • •••...•.••••. Ascot •.. . ...••••....... . ...... 538
"
.. . .. ...... . ..•.• . .B elvedere . , . .• .. • . , .... •.• ..... ,539
"
••• • •..••..•.•. , ••.Craftsmen .........••••.... • ••. 559
"
•.•.••••••••••••••••South Park .......•...•... • .•.. 563
••••••••• •• • •• •••• ,West Adams .. ...•.... • ••...•. 565 ·
"
••••••.• , •••••••• , ,James A. Garfield ..•...•...•.•. 566
••
•.•••••••••• , , •• , , ,James Madison ..••••.••.••• • ••. 572
••••••.• • •••• , •••••Sunnyside •••••••• • •••••••••... 577

,,

..
..

"

422
Post 01fice.

PROCE<EDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

No.

Los Angeles ..•....••...•• , ••••• Progres~ive •.••..•• , , , •.....•.. 5.,.8
"
· · · .. · .. · · · · · , ••. , ·Harding ....................... 584
''
·············~·····Manche&ter .. . ................. 585
''
· · · · · ... · · ......... Valley Forge .................. 587
''
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·El Sereno ..................... 588
''
· · · · · · · · · · · ···~···-Alexander Graham Bell ......... 595
''
· · · · · · · · · · · ········Truth ........................ . 597
''
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·Melrose ........................ 602
''
· · · · · · · · · · · · ·,. .. · .. Glass ell Pa·rk .................. 605
''
·· ······:·······, .. Larchmont ..................... 614
''
· · · · · · ... · · ........ Southland ...................... 618
''
· · · · · .... · ......... The Gardens . .................. 621
''
· · · · ·· ... · · . ....... Atwater ........................ 622
''
· .............. ~ ... Menorah ..................... .. 623
''
· · ........ . ... . .... Angeles Mesa .................. 625
''
................... Benevolence ,· .................. 631
................... Beacon of the West . ........... 628
''
''
................... Composite ... . ................. 639
................... James A. Foshay . .............. 641
''
''
· · ......... . ....... Metropolitan .............. . ... 646
''
.................. • L& Brea ...................... . 650
''
· .................. Jordan ....................... . 654
''
........ ·: ......... Malta .. ... ................... . 661
''
......... ... ....... Henry Knox . .................. 662
''
................... Liberal Arts ................... 677
Los Banos ..•••.•••.••••.••••• Los Banos ..•...••..•..•..•..•. 312
Los Gatos ....•..•..•..••••.••• Los Gatos ....•...........•.... 292
Lower Lake •••••••••••••••••••• Clear Lake ••••••••.•••...•..•. 183
Loyalton ....................... Loyalton ...................... 359
Lynwooii ..........•...........• Lynwood ..... : .........•...... . 600
Madera •...•.•.•••.••.••.••• , • Madera .......•••....••.••.•.. 280
Manteca ....•..•.••..•.••.•••• Tyrian .•...•••..•.....••..•••• 439
Maricopa •.•.•.••.••..••••.•••• Maricopa ••..•...••.....••.••. 434
Mariposa ...•...•.•••••••••••• Mariposa • • . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . • • 24
Martinez •.•.••... . .•. •• •• , •••• Martinez . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • • • . . • • 41
Marysville .••••.••..•..••••.•• Corinthian . . . . . . . . . • • . • . . • . • . . 9
Maxwell ..•••••..•.•...••••••• Ma:icwell •....••.....•••.•..••. 288
McCloud .................... , , McCloud ...................... 430
Menlo Park •...•.•...••.••. , •• Menlo Park ..••....•..•.•...... 651
Mend9cii:io •...•••.•••••••••••• Mendocino ....•.......•.••..•. 179
Merced , , • , ...••.••.•••.•• , • , . Yosemite • . . . . . . . • . . • • . • • . • . . . . 99
Middletown •....•..•.. • ..••••• Callayomi ........••....•..••.. 282
Milton ..•••••••....••••••••••• Keystone .............•.••..•• 161
Mill Valley ................... Mill Valley .................... 3511

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

423

Lodge.

NQ.

Millville •.......••.•••..•.•••• Northern Light ..•••.•.•.•••••• 190
Modesto •••••.•••....••••••••• Stanislaus ••.••..•. ." .•.•.••..•• 206
''
..................... . Modesto ...................... . 675
Monrovia •.•....•••..•.••••••• Monrovia .....•.••.••••....••• 308
''
.................... ..Sojourner .................... .. 607
Montebello ..•..••..••.••••..•• Montebello •...• . ••••.•••.•..•. 451
Monterey ••.•....•.•...••••••• Monterey ••..•.•••.•..•.•.•... 217
Monterey Park ......... , ...... . Ramona ..• ... .•......•....•... 457
Montrose ....••......•...•••••. Crescenta Valley ••••...••. : . .•• 652
Morgan Hill ..•.......•.••..•• Morgan Hill ................... 463
Mount Shasta .•..•.••... ••. ..•. Sisson .• . ..•..•.••••.•••••. ·••• 310
Mountain View .•.•.•••..••.••• Mountain View ••.••••••.•...•• 194
Murphy's ...................... Ophir • . . . • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • . • • • • • 33
Napa •..••...•..•.....•.••..•• Yount •• • •..••.•••••..•.••.••• 12
National City ................. South West ................... 283
Newman .•..••..•.•...•••••.•• Hill 's Ferry •.•••.••••••..•.••• 236
Needles ....•.••••••..••••••.•• Needles ••.•...••.•.••.•.••.•.. 326
Nevada City •••.•..•••.••••••• Nevada ..•••.•.•..••...•••.•.• 13
North Hollywood ..••••..••••••• Lankershim .•••.•.•••.•....•.. 542
North Sacramento .•••.•..•••••.•Warren G. Harding ............. 579
Norwalk .•••.••...•.•..••••.•• Norwalk .....•.•.••..•.••••••. 315
Oakland ••..••..•••.•••••••••. Live Oak ••••••••.•.•....•••.• 61
''
...................... Oakland ..................... . 188
...................... Brooklyn ...................... 225
"
•.•..••.....•••••.••.• Sequoia ....•.•.•...••..••..•.. 349
"
•.••.•..• . .... . .•..... Alcatraz ...•.•...••••..•.••••. 244
"
..•.•.•...•.•••••.••.• Fruitvale •.•.•.•..••.••.•••.•. 336
"
..• . ......•.•••••••.•• Bay View •.•••.••..•••.•.•• •. •401
"
....................... Yarba Buena .••.•..•......•••• 403
"
.........•.•.•.•.•..•.
Sta.adard .•..•.••.•••.•••••..• 440
"
...................... Rockridge .................... 468
"
•.....•....•..•••.•••• Fellowship •••....•..•••.•.••.. 480
"
•....•..•..•..••••. . •• Acorn •....•..••••...•.•••. .• • 494
"
............•..••••••• Fremont •...•..•••.•..•.••.... 497
"
....................... Lakeshore ..• ; ................. 551
"
••••.•••••...•.••••••••Plymouth ..••••••••....•.••••• 560
"
.....................
, .Foothill ....................... 564
"
••••..•••••••••••••••••Park Boulevard •••.•••.••.••••. 568
"
••••.••••••••••••••••••Chateau Thierry •.•.••••••••••. 569
"
.........••••..••• , •.•• Dimond .•.•.•.•••..••.•••.•.••• 603
"
" •..............••....•. Elmhurst ••.•••.••.•••.•.•••.•. 610
..................•...• Fortitude •• . •.••..•••••.•.•.••. 624
"
Oakdale ••..••••.••••••••••.•• Oakdale ....•..••••.•.••••...• 275
Oceanpark ..•••...••••.•.•••••• Ocean Park •••.••... •. •..•.••. 369

424
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

No.

Oceanside .......•..•..••.••..• Oceanside .....•...•....••...•. 381
Ojai. ...........................Ojai .......................... 663
Ontario .••••...•...•.....••.•. Ontario ................•...••. 301
Orange •.•.........•.........• Orange Grove .....••.••••.•... 293
Orland .........•............•. Orland •.....••...•..••..•••. .'. 265
Orosi ..........••••..•....•.•• Orosi .....•..•....•..•........ 383
Oroville .....•....••.••.....•.• Oroville •.••.....•••... , ..•..• 103
OwensI{louth ...... ·.............. Owensmouth .................. ,611
Oxnard .......•....••.•....... Oxnard .... . ......•.. , ........ 341
Pacific. Grove ••..............• Pacific Grove ..•.......•••..... 331
Palms ..••.••.......•...••• , •• Palms ............•.•••...•... 512
Palo Alto •.......••.•......••. Palo Alto ...............• , .••. 846
Pasadena •.........•....•....• Pasadena ................... , •. 272
''
· · ................... Corona ........................ 324
''
· · ................... San Pasqual .................. 452
''
..................... Carmelita ..................... 599
''
· · .................. . Lamanda Park ................ . 627
Paso Robles ....•....••..•....• Paso Robles •...••...•••..•..•. 286
Patterson ••..•....•.••.•...... Patterson ...........•.... .' ... .488
Penryn ....•.................• Penrhyn ...................••.. 258
Perris •..•••••......•..•.....• Perris ... , •.•.•..••....•...... 411
Petaluma ..•.•..•••..•..•...... Petaluma •......•..•.••...••.• 180
Piedmont ...................... Piedmont •......•.....•........ 521
Pine Knot .•••...•.....•..•..•.. Big Bear ...........•........... 617
Pinole .........•.••..••.....•. Pinole .....•.....•.•••........ 353
Pittsburg ..•..•.•.....•.....•• Pittsburg ..................... 429
Placerville ..•.•....•.•.•.•.••• El Dorado . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • . • . . 26
Pleasanton •...••••.•........•• Alisa! •...•...........••••..... 321
Plymouth ••...•.....•...•••.•. Drytown •.... : ...•••••••.•..•• 174
Point Arena •....••.•..•.•..•. Claiborne . , . , ...••....•.....•. 185
Pomona ..•..•.••.....•...•••.• Pomona ....••••......•.....•.. 246
"
· · · .................. .. Compass ...................... 590
Porterville •....•...•.......••. Porterville ..........••..•..... 30.3
Portola ••....•..•..•.•.••.•..• Grizzly .......................•. 601
Puente ....••..•..•........•..• La Puente •...•...•.......•.•.. 446
Quincy .............•.......•• Plumas . . • • • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . • . 60
Ramona ........................ Santa Maria ............•...... 580
Redondo ...•........•... .• ..••• Redondo .........•.••..•..•.•. 328
Redding •.............•....••. Reading ....•....•..•......... 254
Redlands ...........•...•.•••• Redlands ...........•••••..•... 300
Reedley ..•.•...............••• Reedley ............•.••......• 304
Redwood City ................. Redwood City ................. 168

Post Oll'ic~.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

425

Lodge.

No.

Red Bluff .••...•••••....••.•• ."Vesper . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 84
Reseda .............. : .......... Reseda ........•............... 666
Rialto ............•.............Rialto ..•..................... 582
Richmond .......•.......•..... Alpha ..........• ·• ••..•....•• .431
''
.................... . McKinley .................... . 347
''
••••...•..••..•..•.•• Harbor •.••.••.•..••.•••••••.. 502
''
.•...•.•..•....••..•• Point _ ........•....•••...•••.•• 503
Rio ·vista ..•....••...•.•.•.•.• Rio Vista •.••.••.•..•.•••.•••. 208
Riverbank ..............•...• ."Riverbank ..................... 459
Riverdale ..•.......••••...• , •• Riverdale ••........•••..• : •.•• 496
Riverside .....•.•••••..••••.•• Evergreen ..•••..•.•••.•.•••.•• 259
''
....................... Riverside .•••..••.••••••..••.. 635
Roseville ••...•••.•..••••••••• Roseville ..••.•••.••••••••••••. 222
Sacramento .......•....••...•. Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . • . . • . . • • 3
••.•••....•. , • , •.. , , Washington •.••••. , , , , . • • • . • . • 20
'•
"
. , .......... , ••••. ,Sacramento ......... , , ........ 40
''
, ... , ....• ,, •.•••. ,Union ...•..•..•.••.• , •••..••.• 58
''
•.. , , . , .•.. , . , , ..• ,Concord ....••••..••••• , •...•.• 117
''
...•••.....• , ••••. ,Capital City •...•••.•• , .••••.•. 499
"
.... , , , . , ... , , •.. , ,Provident ...................... 609
''
................... Three Pillars ................... 613
Saint Helena •••••.• , ••.•••• , • , Saint Helena •..•.••••.••.••••• 93
Salinas ....•......••...•.• , . .' •.. Salinas •.•.••.•.•••••• , •.••••• 204
San Andreas ....•.....•••••••• Calaveras • . • . . . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . . 78
San Bernardino •..•••••...•.••• Phoenix ••.•...• , • , ••. , •..•.•• 178
''
................ San Bernardino .............. . 348
''
................ Damascus ..................... 648
San Clemente .......•.........•. San Clemente .••••.••••..•.••.. 671
San Diego • , .••...• , .•••.•••••• San Diego • . • • • • • • • • • • . • • . • . • • . 35
''
..................... Silver Gate .................... 296
''
....................... . Blackmer .................... . 442
''
........ . ............ S. W. Hackett .................. 574
''
.................... . Point Loma .................... 620
''
.................... .. Normal Heights ................. 632
"
..................... ,John D. Spreckels .............. 657
San Dimas .•••.•.••••• , •• , •••• , San Dimas .....•••.•..•.•...... 428
San Fernando .•••.....•••.•.•• , .San Fernando •••••••••••••.••. 343
San Francisco •.•.... , ...•.•••• California . . • • • • • • . . • . • • • . • . . • • 1
''
................. Parfaite Union .... , ........... 17
''
................. Occidental ....... ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
''
....... , ......... Golden Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 30
''
................. Mount Moriah ... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
''
.... , ............ Fidelity ...................... . 120

426

PROCEEDlNGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNlA

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

San Francisco •....•••.••.•.••• Hermann • • • • • • . . . . • • • • • • • • ' •• 127
• .••••.•.•.•..••• Pacific • . . . . . • . •
135
"
• • · · ..............Crockett ...•.. : : : .•...••...• '139
"
...••••••.••••••• Oriental .....••.• : ••.•••••••.•. 144
"
·
· • · •.•••.•.••••• Excelsior
•.•••. ' .... 166
"
• ..•••..•.••••••• Mission .. ....••...........•••• 169
"
"
· · · · • • ·. ·. · ...••• Sputh San Francisco •.•.....••. 212
"
· · • • ••.•.•.....•. Doric ..........• ••. ...•.•••••. 216
"
• · • · .• · .•..•.... • Speranza Italians ..••..••••..• 219
"
• · · · .. · ••..•.. , .. King Solomon's .•......•. .. ••. 260
"
·• · · ••.....•.•.•• Starr King •............•••. . . ,344
"
• · · • •.•.••.•.••••.Presidio ....•••....•... ·•..••.• 354
"
• · · ·. · • · ..•.•.... . San Francisco •... ..• ..••••.... 360
"
• · .•••..••.•..••• Amity .. . . ... • ..•...•.•••..•.. 370
"
· · · • · . · ..... .. ... Jewel ........................ 374
"
· · · • •..• •• ...••.• Richmond .. . ...•.. : •....••••.. 375
.... • ..••.•...• . . Parnassus ......... • •.....• ..•• 388
"
"
• • • • • ..•.....•..• Balder . . ..•..•..•....••....•.• 393
"
• · ............... Fairmont ..................... 435
"
................. Park ..... .. .. . ... .. .......... 449
"
• • · • · · · • . . ...•••• Bethlehem ...•.....•..••..• • •• 453
"
· • · · •. • •• •••.•.•• Golden West ..•..... . •...•... • 455
. · ..•.••.••.•..• . Argonaut •..•.•..••..••.••.•.. 461
"
"
. · . .............. Paul Revere .................. .462
• • • • • • · •..••..... Alta Vista ...•..•••.•••.. . .•.• 464
"
· • · •.• ••••...••••. Lincoln ... .. .. • .••••.••..••..• 470
"
"
· • · ...•••..•••••. Victory .....•....•..••.••••.. .474
· · · · ·. · ••. .•..... Mt. Davidson . .•....••.••••... 48.1
"
· · · · . .. ••••..•.•. Lebanon ........••.••.•••...•. 495
"
"
· · · · · .... . ....•.. Roosevelt .. . ..•..••.•.•. •. •••. 500
· · · · •.•...•.••.•. Argonne ..............•..••••••. 514
"
• • · · · ... ... ...... Mount Vernon ...... . ••..•..•.. 517
"
"
• • · · · · • • ....•.• ,.George Washington . ........... 525
"
· · · · •• • . • ..•..••. Bay City . . .. ...... ... .......... 526
• · · · • · ....• · ..... Alexandria ... .. .•... . ...•. .•. . , 531
"
.•...•.•.........Forest Hill ............••.•• , ••• 534
"
• · · • · ...•...•.•.. Seal Rock ..••......•.•..•..•.. 536
"
· • · • · · · • · • ·• •.... Jonathan ...................... 545
• • .... . .......... Justice •.. . .. .. •.••.•••..•••••. 549
"
• • .....••••.....• Seaport .........•..•..•.••.... 550
"
"
• · • · • ·. • · ·.· ....• Golden City •.•........••.••..• 553
• • • • • ..•.•......• Educator ..•...•••..••••..•••.• 554
"
"
• • • • • · • · • • ......• Pyramid ....•...•..•.....••.•. 562
0

... ··················

..

Poat Ot!lce.

Lodge.

427
No.

San Francisoo •...••.• ••• ••..•• Military Service • .•..•. . • .. •••• 570
''
....... . . . .... . . . Ingleside . ~ ....... .... .. " .. " .. . . . 630
............... , • Veritas •• .. , •. , . , • , .. ....... , . 640
"
•.•.•....•• • ••••. Far West ....••.••....•....•... 673
"
San Gabriel. , •• •••••••••••••••• San Gabriel .....•• , • , .•... , •.. 546
Sanger ..•.•.•••.•••.••••••••••• Sanger . .•..••.. , • , .•.••• ••.•.. 316
8an Jacinto ....•••.•• • •••••••• San Jacinto •.....•.........••. 338
San Jose ....•.... ..•...•• ...... San Jose •. ••••..•••••••••. • ••• 10
''
... . ........ . .......... Friendship ................ . ... 210
''
...... . .... .... ....... . Fraternity .......... . ...... .. . 399
''
........................ Golden Rule .. " . . .. ........... 479
'' ....................... John P. Jarman . .. . .......... .. 669
San Joaquin . ........ •.. .. . ..... Joppa ...• • ..•• • ...•..•.••• •• . 508
Ban Juan Bautista ..•..••.•..•.• Texas .•..•..••••.••••.•••..•• 46
San Leandro ... .••....•.••••. • Eden .. •.. • .• ...•• • .••...• •• •. 113
San Luis Obispo . ..........·.. . • King David 's • .. •...•. •..••.•.. 209
San Mateo • , .................. San Mateo ..••••.•••• , •.•. • ••• 226
San Miguel ••.......•••.•..•.•• San Miguel ••••.....•..•••.••. 285
!:'Ian Pedro ........•. • •••••.••. • .San Pedro .••...•..•...... . ...•. 332
''
''

..... .. ...........•••• Point :E'irmin ...... .... . ... .... 558
......... •.. ....•• .. A, E. F. Irwin .. .•. ...... . .. . .. 645
Ban Rafael , •••• , .•••.. ••• •••. Marin •.... . .•.•.• . • •• ....• • •• 191
Santa Ana ••.. • ••••.•••.•.•••• Santa Ana ••.••••••..•...•••.. 241
''
.. " . ................ Silver Cord ..•................ 505
''
.................... Jubilee ..................... ..... 604
Santa Barbara • • •.•. •• •••••••. Santa Barbara ...••.• • . .• •. • •• 192
''
....... . ........ Magnolia . . ... . . " . ... . ... " ... . 242
''
.......... .. .... La Cumbre ......... . .. .. ...... 642
Banta Clara ... .. .............. Libert1 ....................... 299
Santa Cruz . . •. •• .••.•••••••••• Santa Cruz •.•••.•.••.•••••• , . • 38

Santa Maria • •••. ..• •••.••••• • Itesperian ••••• •• ••••••••• • •••• 264
Santa Monic:a .•.....•••••••••• Santa Monica . • •.•••..•. • • , •.• 307
''
.... . ..... . ......... .Palisades .. .. ...... . ........... 63 7
Santa Paula •.•••••.• • •••••••• Santa Paula •..••••.••••..•••• 291
Santa Rosa .•. . .•• • ..••• • ••. • . Santa Rosa .. ••. ••.•••...•.•.•• 57
Sawtelle •.•••• • .•••••••••••••• Veteran ... ••• .•• . •.••• •• ••••• 373
Seal Beach ...• . •.•• • , , , •••••••• Seal Beach .......•••.•• , ••.•. , . 616
Schofield Barracks •••••.• , • , ••• Schofield ...••••••.•.•••..••••• 443
Sebastopol .••••••.•..•.•••.• , • La Fayette •.•.•••••••••.•••.•• 126
Selma ••..•.•••••.•••••••••••• Selma . ........•.•.....• , •••••• 277
Shasta ••••• • •• • ••.. •••• ••••••• Western Star ••.• • .••• • .• • , • • • 2
Signal Hill .....................Alta Loma ................ , .... 643
Sierra Cit;y . • .••.•••••••••••••. Harmony ..•••...••••••.•. •., .164

428
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

No.

Sierra Madre •..•..•.•••..•.••• Sierra Madre .... .•• ·... ....••.. 408
Sierraville ..•••.••••.•... ·•.••• Sierra Valley .•......•.......• 184
Smartsville •.•...•..•..••.•••• Rose's Bar . . . . . . • • . . • . . . • • . . . • 89
South Gate ..................... Guardian ................. : . ... 596
South Pasadena ..••.•....••..• South Pasadena ....••... . ... ... 367
South San Francisco •..••.•.•• Francis Drake .... •.. ....... ·- .376
Sonoma •...•...... : ......•.••. Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • • • . • 14
Son.ora • .... .. .••.•.......•.... _Tuolumne . . . . . . • . . . • • . . • . • . . . . 8
Stockton .......•.............. San Joaquin .........•. . ...... 19
''
............ . ......... Morning Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
''
........ .. ... ......... Delta ................... ...... 471
''
· .......... ........ ... Stockton ..................... 498
Stony Ford .•.•..•.....•..•.••• Snow Mountain ............•.•. 271
Sunnyvale .....•••............ Sunnyvale .•.....•.••......... 511
Susanville .....•.....••.••.•... Lassen ... ....•.•.. : . ...••.... 149
Sutter Creek •........•.•••.••• Henry Clay ...•.••..•.•••.••.• 95
Suisun ....•.. ; ..•.••...•....•• Suisun . . . . . . • . . • . • . • • . . • . . • • • . 55
Taft •. ...•..•.•..•..•.•••..... Midway ........•.•. ~ .•..•..•. 426
..•......••......••....•.. Taft .... ..... ....... ... ...... .. 516
"
Tehama .....•....•..• ._ ....•..• Molino ....................••.. 150
Tehachapi ..................... Tehachapi ..................... 313
Temple .•.•...•....•.•.••.•••••. Temple City ....•..•..•••.•.•.. 612
Torrance ••...•.•....•..••••••• 'l'orrance ..........•......•.•. 447
Tracy ......................... Mt. Oao ....................... 460
Truckee ......••..••.••.••..••• Truckee ............•.......•. 200
Tujunga ......•••.••.••••.•.••• Tujunga ...•........••......•• 592
Tulare ......................... Olive Branch •.............••.. 269
Tuolumne .••..•......••••••••. East Belt .........•...••....•. 391
Turlock •.•.........••..•.•.••• Tudock .........•.•..•.•....•• 395
Ukiah ..•.•••.•.•••••..••••••• Abell .................•......• 146
Upland . .•....•..•...••• •• ••••• Upland .... .. ........•..•••••. 419
Vallejo ....................... Naval ........................ 87
''
....................... Solano .........................229
''
....................... Vallejo ............ . ..... ~ .... 487
Vacaville ..................... Vacaville ..................... 134
Van Nuys ..................... Van Nuys ................... .450
Venice ....••..••••...•.... . ...• Triangle ........•..•.••.•.•••. 548
Ventura ....•.•.•...•.••.....• San Buenaventura ............. 214
''
...•..•••... .' ..•..•.••• Poinsettia .•..••...••...••••.•. 633
Victorville ..••.••••••..••.••.••.Victorville .....•......•.•••••• 634
Visalia .....•..••..•.••.•••••• Visalia •..........••..•..•...•• 12'8
Volcano ......•.......•.•.••.•• Volcano . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • • . . • . . . 56
Walnut Creek ......•. • .•..••.• Alamo ........•••.....••....•. 122

Post Office

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

429

Lodge

No.

Wasco ..•.. .....•...•.•.••••• ,Wasco .... .. .. .. .............• 583
Watsonville ...........•••••••• Pajaro .........••............. 110
Watts ........•....••.•••••••• York •............•......•.... 423
Weaverville ...•.•.•.•.•••••.•• Trinity ....... • ..• . .... .• . .... 27
Weed ....................••••• White Pine ............ . ...... 555
West Hollywood ................ John Marshall ..•.... •......... 636
West Los Angeles .. .... ... ..•••• Veteran . ........ ...... .... .... 373
Westwood .........•.•..••.•••• Westwood .......... .. ... ... .. 501
Wheatland .•.••... . ..••.••.•.• Nicolaus . ... ...... ..•. .. .. .. .. 129
Whittier ......... , ..•...•••••• Whittier ... ... ............. . .. 323
''
........... . .......... .Greenleaf . ... .. ....... . . ... .... 670
Winters ....................... Buckeye ...... ... ............ . 195
Willits . . ..... ... ...•.•.•...••• Willits .. . ....•. ~ .............. 365
Willow Glen ............. . .....• Willow Glen ... . .. .. ........... 676
Willows ....•... .. ... • •..•••.•. Laurel .... .. .....•........... . 245
Windsor .....•............•••• Russian River • ....•...••.•.•. . 181
Williams ...•.... ... ....•.•••.• Tuscan ............•.....•.••. 261
Wilmington ••...........••.••• Wilmington ......... .... ..... , 198
Woodbridge ...... . ..•....••.•• Woodbridge ....... ......•....• 131
Woodlake . ... ... ... . .. ........ . Kawea.h ... .......... .......... 665
Woodland •... • ....•.....••.••• Woodland .•........ .. .......•• 156
Yolo ..............•.••.••.•••. Yolo .............•..•....•.... 81
Yorba Linda ....... '. .......... Yorba· Linda ... . ............. . 469
Yreka •......•. . .•.••.••••••••• Howard .......... . .....•. • .•• . 37
Yuba City ..............•••••• Enterprise . .•.......... . .....• 70

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEB ON
CORRESPONDENCE
October, 1930
BY JESSE M. WHITED

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
Herewith is submitted my Tenth Report as Chairman of the
Correspondence Committee. As usual, the views expressed under
the various topics are the individual ideas of the Chairman.
We also desire to express our thanks to the Secretaries of the
several Grand Bodies and of the Grand Lodges of the United States,
the Editors of Masonic publications, and to other writers who have
directly or indirectly furnished material which has furnished the basis
for some of the opinions expressed in the report.
Consideration of the same general questions and conditions that
have been before the Craft for a number of years are practically
along the same unchanged lines. Generally the subjects such as
lack of attendance, stricter investigation of candidates, the large
number of suspensions and the financial condition of the lodges due
to small dues and building of improperly financed temples are the
ones most discussed. These will be considered in their proper order
in the body of the Report.
·
Within the limits of the Report cannot be considered what might
be termed "minor questions" and for that reason a summary of some
of these are as follows;
CIPHER RITUAL: The use of cipher rituals in practically all
of the Jurisdictions is a Masonic offense. Effort in some of the
Grand Lodges to allow the use of these publications have usually
met with the fate it deserves. As one Correspondent expressed it:
"It is curious how this old predilection for 'mouth to ear' instruction proceeds, and how strong is the fear of the profane obtaining
information of the esoteric side of Freemasonry. In American book
stores the writer has read full and concrete exposes, not only of
Masonry but practically every secret organization in existence."

2

RE PO RT ON C ORRESPONDENCE

CLANDESTINE BODIES: Pennsylvania, Colorado, New
y ork and some of the other States are having trouble with these
pests. In Colorado the District Court of the City and C~unty of
Denver ruled against the use of the word Masonry, or anything pertaining thereto, by any organization other than the recogni~ed Grand
Lodge of the State. New York amended their law to read as follows :
"No certificate of incorporation of a proposed domestic corporation and no statement and designation of a foreign corporation having
the name or names 'Masonry,' 'Masons,' 'Masonic,' ' Freemasons,'
'Free and Accepted Masons,' 'Ancient Free and Accepted Masons,'
or the component parts thereof or the significent words therein,.
whether the same are used in juxtaposition or with interspace, shall
be filed or recorded in any office for the purpose . of ..e_ff~cting its .
incorporation, 'or of authorizing it to do business in this state, unless
such certificate or statement and designation. be accompanied by
the consent of' the Grand ·Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of New York. duly acknowledged by- its Grand Master
and Grand Secretary."
In Pennsylvania a verdict was rendered against a clandestine
organization which was functioning there. The case is still on appeal.
CO-ORDINATE BODIES: During the past year there has
been little to disturb the. peace and good harmony prevailing between
the various Grand Jurisdictions and the coordinate Bodies. The
requirements are well understood and established and the reciprocal
fellowship and esteem continues to exist.
The strained relations existing between the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands and the Shrine regarding the holding of Ceremonials in the .Philippines have been satisfactorily adjusted. This
result in a large measure was due to the efforts of the Officers of
Islam Temple of San Francisco.
In our neighboring Jurisdiction of Nevada, trouble arose between
the Grand Commander of the Knights Templar and the Shrine, due
to the latter organization permitting non-memb.ers and profanes to
appear in public in Shrine regalia. We have not learned of the
ultimate outcome of the protest. We believe the principle that no
Mason should bring reproach upon the Fraternity by his actions in
any organization having as a prerequisite membership in the M~sonic
Fraternity is generally' observed. However, it is the exception to
the rule that produces the trouble. As heretofore stated, we think
that discipline through the Blue Lodge, which certainly has the
power to protect Masonry, will be a more salutary .effect than any
other form of procedure.

REPORT O N CORRESPONDE N CE

3

Many of the coordinate bodies are functioning along proper
lines and influenced only by the highest motives. To the Public,
however, no distinction is made, and for that reason the Masonic
organization is blamed for any transgressions of the established
rules of proper conduct. In all such coordinate Bodies or "play
grounds" the present slogan, " Watch your step," should ever be
before the individual Member.
DUAL MEMBERSHIP : Our Reports of 1928 and 1929 included the views both for and against Dual Membership. It is still
a live topic. Many of the Jurisdictions are considering it for future
action. During the past year Alberta. Connecticut. New Jersey,
Oregon and Wisconsin have changed their laws to permit dual
membership.
·
DUES: From the financial reports a large number of individual Lodges in various jurisdictions are operating "on a shoe
string." We cannot see how a lodge can properly function on dues
of $2 and $3 per annum, with low initiation fee. Some of the
Jurisdictions exempt Ministers from paying dues.
Connecticut
exempts all members who have been in good standing for 30 years
from further payment of dues: over 10% of their entire membership
is now exempt. In another jurisdiction one of the subordinate lodges
was so well fixed financially that its members were not called upon
to pay dues. Investigation revealed the fact that the Grand Lodge
was expending several thousand dollars over and above per capita
tax paid by this lodge for taking care of its· stipendaires.
The Grand Master of New York in commenting on lodge
finances, quoted from Charles Dickens as follows : " Annual income
£20, annual expenditures £19.9.6, result Happiness. Annual income
£20, annual expenditures £20.0 and its result-Misery."
EDUCATION: In some of the Jurisdictions the Public authorities have asked the cooperation of the Masonic Fraternity to assist
in the betterment of the Public Schools. Even where not asked
some of the Grand Lodges have followed the example of California
in taking an active part in trying to inform those interested that
the Public Schools are one of the bulwarks of our nation. In a
number of the Jurisdictions Educational Loan Funds to help deserving boys and girls are maintained, with the number availing themselves of the fund increasing each year.
One of the outstanding events was the action of Brother John
Smith of Mount Moriah Lodge No. 125, of Philadelphia, who
bequeathed the residue of his estate of over $1,000,000 to the Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania for carrying on the education of its wards.

REP ORT ON C ORRESPONDENC E

R EPOR T ON CORRESPONDENCE

The total amount given by Brother Smith for this pur.p ose during
his life time and by his will amounted to $1.600,440.82.

HOMES : Of the forty-nine Grand Lodges in the United
States, all but eleven maintain Homes for the care of the needy.
There seems to be a general feeling that perhaps instit utional relief
is being carried to extremes, and that the financial question involved
in a number ·Of States is getting to be a serious one as t ime goes on.
Some of the Jurisdictions who have not yet established Homes
are leaning towards the " Iowa plan.'' or taking care of the deserving
through the lodge in the locality in which the party lives and establishing Sanitariums for the care only of the absolutely helpless.
There is also a general tendency to educate the members that they
can perform a true and pract ical Masonic service by remembering
Masonic homes in their last will and testament.

4

FELICITATIONS: A most gracious action was taken by
the Grand Lodge of England when it decided to send ~ telegran_i . to
every Grand Lodge in the United States, congratulating American
Freemasonry on the 200th Anniversary of the Grand _L~e of
England's recognition of American Freemasonry by establishing the
Provincial Grand Lodge for New England in 1730.
THE FUTURE: What will be the effect of the present stand.ard
of living on not only the Masonic Fraternity but other organ1z~­
tions, is a question that is occupying a large amount of .space in
the Masonic Journals and also by Grand Maste.rs,. Cha1rm~n of
Correspondence Committees and Observers, both within and ~1thout
the Craft. The automobile, the radio, the airplane, th~ talkies a~d
t additions to our daily routine are responsible for this.
o ther r ecen
.
"d "Th
In discussing a different question a prominen~ ma~ ~1 :
~re
is nothing wrong with the institution of Marn~ge, 1t 1s only with
some of its Participants." The same may be said of Masonry. We
have departed far from the original idea of the Fou~d.ers of. the
Grand Lodge of England that the Lodge was a conv1v1al society,
its beneficences and charities a direct charge upoX: the lodges a~d
the Institution itself a selective one. Any reform in the. Fraterruty
t ommence with the members themselves, and this can be~t
:u:cc~mplished by educating members, if not in whole at · least in
part. with the original idea of the Founders.
"
·
A noted writer advanced the following thought: Let the l°?ge
room be a place where one may escape the rush, forget for. a !:me
the material and commercial, and pause for food and reflection.
Raising the standard of membership and getting back to first
principles may perhaps be the final solution.
GRAND MASTERS' CONFERENCE : The Conference of
the Grand Masters of the United States, which is ~eld a~nua~ly at
Washington, consider matters that are gene~ally ~ive topics 1~ .all
of the Jurisdictions. It is held simply for dis~uss1on. No positive
.
· taken other than giving to the Masonic world the thoughts
act 10n is
,
.
d t
·de the
and ideas of those who are temporarily se1ecte
o gui
destinies of their various Jurisdictions.
.
As time goes on the belief that this ~onfere~ce m1~h~ ever
in a General Grand Lodge is becoming rapidly dissipated.
result
.
f Ed
t'
. to make
Some one has said that tl:te great aim o
uca 1~n is
ple Think and in presenting all sides of a question from mari.y
~ds and m'any places this result will naturally follow.

5

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES: A large
number of the Grand Lodges are adopting a set of b asic principles
for Grand Lodge recognition. England has recently adopted a test
for regularity of origin. It is practically the same as t hat adopted
by the large Jurisdictions of the United States.
An outstanding piece of work of the year was performed by
Brother Ely P. Hubbel, Chairman of the Foreign Correspondence
Committee of Florida, who compiled a chart showing the recognition of Masonic Grand Bodies by every Grand Lodge in the
world. It is a valuable contribution to Masonic stat istics.
RELIEF: Generally speaking it would appear t hat we have
lost sight of the idea that taking care of dependents is a function
of the individual Mason and the constituent lodge, and is now primarily a Grand Lodge problem. This has fostered the idea that
Masonry is a ben~ciary society, and the view is held not only by
a large part of our membership but also the outside public. The
Reports show cases where lodges have reinstated members who
have been suspended for a number of years, and passed them on to
the Grand Lodge for care. In some cases the family or friends have
attempted to pay all arrearages so that the Brother may avail himself of the beneficences of the particular Jurisdiction. I n other cases
the lodges have apparently pa ssed on to the Grand Lodge cases
that were not entitled to assistance. One Jurisdiction found that a
large number of the residents of their Home were of this type and
it was necessary to establish strict er requirements. Perhaps when
the care of dependents is made primarily the first duty of the lodge
these instances will become fewer.
An idea was suggested to the Masons of Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky and West Virginia that they appoint a Committee to propose
to the War Department a plan for "Welfare Wor k" by the Masons
in those states in time of war. T he Grand Lodge of Indiana refused

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

6

REPOR'I' ON COR R E S P ON DEN CE

to cooperate, and in their report expressed the following sentiment:
"Experience gained in the World War leaches that so-called 'Welfare Workers' represented py any particular race or religious faith
proved a burden and an encumbrance to the Government, rather than
a help to our fighting men and tended to create discord, jealousy
and friction in and out of our Army."
ROUND TABLE CONFERENCE: The Grand Lodge of
Wisconsin experimented by holding a "Round Table Conference,"
open to all the members of the Grand Lodge, on an evening during
their session. It was attended by over 200 members. The time
was taken up in considering various topics on the program with
extended discussion from the floor. Informal conferences followed
on Lodge problems and the result was highly satisfactory.
This resulted in the adoption of a resolution authorizing the
Grand Master to appoint a Round Table Committee for the discussion of lodge problems with power to formulate a program,
subject to the approval of the Grand Master. The Grand Lodge will
set aside one evening during their next Annual Grand Lodge Communication for a Round Table discussion at one or several conferences. This should certainly work for the betterment of the
Craft. .
TRIALS: Whether or not names of those expelled or suspended as a result of Masonic trials should be published in the
Proceedings produces a difference of opinion. We believe that a
man tried and expelled is no longer a member of the Fraternity
and we fail to see where he should be protected, even to the extent
of allowing the general public to labor under the belief that he is
still a Mason.
The reports of the Grievances and Appeal Committees of the
various Jurisdictions continue to show a large number of cases
where reversal of manifestly proper decisions are made on account
of errors in trials or procedure. A number of the Jurisdictions
have adopted the practice of having Trials held before a Commission, appointed by the Grand Master and composed of experienced
members, rather than before the Lodge itself or a Trial Commission
selected by them. It seems to have produced satisfactory results
and materially reduced the work of the G. and A. Committees.

*

*

*

*

*

*

This Report is written with the idea of presenting to the
Members of this Jurisdiction the questions now before the Masonic
Fraternity, the comments of Foreign Correspondents upon the work
of our Grand Lodge, and the individual opinion of the Chairman.

7

Borrowing .t he words of one of the prominent Chairmen of a

~~rrespond~n.c~ Committee, " Whatever statements made in expo-

~1hon or. cr1t1c1sm, have in view only the possibility of furnishing
mformat1on to our own Brethren and nothing more."
. If o~r Report presents to the reader any information or ideas
which will prove. entertaining or instructive or will lead to further
research, that will be a sufficient reward for the labor and time
involved in preparing it.

Yours sincerel.y and fraternally,
JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman.

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Jesse M. Whited, Chairman
Byron F. Hillhouse · ,
Trustom R. Dinmore
Martin Ortlieb
C. M. Hickinan
Henry Mottet
Charles Ziegler
Bion S. Gregory
A. Cogliandro

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

9

Georgia (1928):
ATTENDANCE
The lack of attendance at Lodge meetings is one of the problems
confronting practically all of the Jurisdictions. The advent of the
automobile was the first contributing factor to stress the appeal of
"the great open spaces." Then came the movies and the talkies,,
which had a great appeal both from an entertainment and educational standpoint. The radio changed this by bringing the member
back to his own fireside. The advent of "Pewee Golf" is perhaps
now having the same appeal as the automobile and the theater.
In this day and age the average person desires chiefly to be
entertained. By reason of lack of finances the Lodge cannot successfully compete with the changing forms of entertainment available through other sources. The constant rendition of ritual, long
and uninteresting meetings, the discussion of abstract educational
topics, does not add to the drawing power of ·what a lodge is
supposed to furnish. With all of the met:;1ods now · in vogue for
disseminating knowledge, the use of lectures, etc., to instruct has
ceased to attract. We believe that if the ritual was shortened, the
size of lodges reduced, and the main object of the meeting made an
opportunity to become personally acquainted with one another,
the conditions complained of could in part be remedied.
If our memory serves us correctly, two Jurisdictions adopted
a requirement that a member must attend his own lodge at least
twelve times during the year, otherwise he would be automatically
suspended. One adopted a regulation that the member must pass an
examination of a lecture of the third degree. These methods have
produced no results and were repealed. As truly said, "you can
lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink."
Alberta (1929):
(Chairman- · Corresp1mdence C ommittce) : There seems to be a
great awakening to the need of greater effort to instruct _the members
of the Craft. Many Grand Jurisdictions are awakening to the fact
that a continual diet of Ritual becomes m onotonous and is apl: to
bring on a mental scurvy and a loss of members. There is the greatest
beauty in the Ritual, but we can get too much of a good thing and
those Lodges which are branching out and encouraging their members
to study Masonry and other subjects akin to it, are, we think, on the
right road to creating greater interest and increasing attendance at
the meetings. The Lodges w ho have a hig h percentage of attendance
have a very low percentage of suspensions for non-payment of dues.

(Grand Master) : Very few persons today are guided in any of
the activities of life through a sense of duty-there must be an appeal
that challenges the interest of the individual and leads him to a
choice among the varied activities of life. We are living in a new
world and we must needs recognize this fact. Tqe traditions of the
past, however sacred they may be to come of us, no longer appeal to
this genera ti on.
·
!'1asonry today must compete with the moving picture, the automobile, the radio, golf, and the many phases both of amusement and
profit to the individual. How she is to do this is far too complex a
problem for any single individual to solve. In this statement we
would not be misunderstood as meaning that the landmarks of
Masonry must be abandoned. We believe that the principles of
Masonry are everlasting, because she has followed the divine order
of nature in laying her foundations in secrecy, where all that is
grand and beautiful and useful is born of night and mystery.
What we need is a new applicatio~ of the truths of Masonry to
the needs of this day in which we live. To do this we must needs
a?op.t modern methods in the administration of our Lodges, and so
v1tahze the work and the meetings as to make an appeal to the
membership.
Idaho (1929):
· (Chairman Educational Committee): The problems of our Idaho

L~dg.es today are quite different from those of a generation ago.
W1th~n the memory of men not yet old, conditions were much simpler.
Men m those days had leisure evenings, and the Lodge room afforded
them a place to spend a pleasant hour. Homes were much more
isolated and roads were of the pioneer type. Having little else to do
in the evening, they enjoyed going to Lodge, where besides disposing
of their Masonic obligations they met congenial spirits and ta lked
over the problems of the day with the neighbors.
Then came the a utomobile, good roads, moving pictures, radio,
and many other modern forms of attraction, and the old days passed
away, never to return. Men are no longer troubled with idle evenings.
There are so many things to do and so many places to go that there
are not evenings enough in the week. In order to attend Lodge now
they must forego some pleasure or business engagement. It is more
interesting to turn on the radio and listen to the varied and attractive
programs that are offered, or step into the car and speed away on a
drive to the neighboring town.
Men no lo nger need to go to Lodge for a diversion. Those who
go must do so for a more substantial reason. It must be more be-

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

cause of loyalty to the Lodge, love of Masonic principles and teachings, or because of a deeper faith in the fundamentals of the Fraternity. These are new conditions and it can readily be seen that
the problem of Lodge attendance assumes greater importance.
North Carolina (1930):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Alabama is also rightly much concerned about problems of larger
attendance. This is indeed a serious matter. As a matter of fact
attendance at meetings of all organizations is a serious matter in this
busy day of over-organization. People do not have time to attend
meetings as they did in the days of the long gone past. No longer
is the Lodge or the church the community center of social activities
and social contacts. On the contrary, the average man or woman belongs to so many different groups which have meetings that it requires much more than seven nights in each week to attend all these
meetings. We know of many men who are scarcely on speaking
terms with their wives and families, and we doubt not that there are
many women also who are scarcely on speaking terms with their
children and home. Small wonder it is therefore that in this vivid
age, Lodge attendance is reported to be small. In the experience of
the average man, the question of what he is going to do with his
evenings means a selection of activities on the basis of relative importance; and on this basis we have to admit that a few Lodge meetings of which we have known could be eliminated.
To be self-perpetuating in the existing social order, any activity,
be it Lodge or something else, must be inherently satisfying. If
Lodge work is satisfying to the individual Mason, he will attend
without urging; if it is not thus satisfying to him, he will attend only
because of some sense of Masonic duty or obligation to do so.
Philippine Islands (1928):

(Grand Lectitrer): Sometimes the "Right Hand of Fellowship"
is remarkably cold when extended to a visiting brother. Every visiting brother should be given the cordial greeting he deserves, and
made free of our Masonic home. Masons are entitled to enter our
tiled doors, and cordiality, courtesy, and hospitality are due to every
brother. He may come with a mind harassed with business worries,
but when he meets with a group of genial and sympathetic men, it
gives him a breathing spell and rest and he goes away feeling glad
that he came.
South Carolina (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Concerning the matter
of stimulating and maintaining Lodge attendance, Brother Eber-

11

hardt (Utah 1929) notes various successful methods already used in
some Lodges, and he suggests other things that he believes to be of
value. Concluding these observations, he says, "That this problem
of Lodge attendance, however, may be even more deep seated than
appears on the surface, involving possibly the consideration· of
changes in the lectures of the several degrees and other features of
the work, is open to debate." We presume that he has in mind the
parrot-like repe.t ition of words contained in the lectures that soon
become wearisome to those who are expected to continue listening
to them. We would like to hear that debate and participate in it.
We have long since realized the futility of the attempt to continue
to hold the attention of men by the repetition of stereotyped phrases.
South Dakota (1929):
(Grand Master): The mode, intensity and complexity of the life
of the individual has undergone a complete change. Life that was
then satisfying but characterized by comparative simplicity has become colorful, complex and absorbing. The demands upon time,
thought and energy have been multiplied a thousand fold. Entertainment has been commercialized and emphasized to the nth degree.
The celebrities of the platform, stage and music hall may be seen and
heard in every city and village. Science, invention, and mass production 'have filled our laps to overflowing with the luxuries and playthings of life.
Utah (1930):

(Board of Custodians) : The reasons given for poor attendance
are in such variety that they do not lend themselves to classification
or analysis. The prevailing ones are too many counter-attractions,
too much roµtine, too much work, too little work, and general indifference. The indifference, we take it, arises from the fact that the
Lodge does not have enough work and business to keep it occupied.
The remedies suggested are likewise various and do not lend themselves to classification. Some of the suggestions are more play and
social relaxation, some definite activity undertaken by the Lodge or
something that will arouse special interest; giving, more men something to do; better ritualistic work; less ritualistic work; and more
ritualistic ~ork.
Suggestions as to how to promote acquaintance and fellowship
among the members were asked and again the answers are more or
less heterogeneous, but the thought that is apparently most prevalent
is that our Lodges should have more informal evenings; that there
should be recesses during the -yvork, joint meetings among Lodges in

12

REPORT CN CORRESPONDENCE

the same town, visits between neighboring -Lodges in different towns
and Lodge socials. In the smaller Lodges the thought is apparent
that the families ought to be let into as many as possible of the social
activities.
Your Board availed itself of the. wide Masonic acquaintance of
our Grand S'ecretary to ask some questions about the matters here
considered from veterans in older and larger Jurisdictions. Aldro
Jenks, Grand Correspondent of Wisconsin, says relative to the lectures that they there have shortened the lectures of the second section of the Fellow Craft Degree by omitting the description of the
particulars as to the orders of architecture and those relating to" the
seven liberal arts and sciences and that they have shortened the lecture in the Master Mason Degree by omitting the explanation of
some of the emblems.
Dr. H. M. Poteat, a Past Grand Master of North Carolina, and
educator of more than state-wide reputation, says that, "We still use
the old lectures and charges. My own conviction is that they should
be revised from end to end-together with the rest of the Ritual."
Dr. Frederick W. Hamilton, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
of Massachusetts, writes:
"We have the flame trouble of non-attendance that you have. I
have not lately observed any great tendency to leave before the c_o mpletion of the work. We try to arrange matters so that a · Lodge
shall be closed in reasonable season and I think there is much Jess
tendency to des ert than there used to be."
Washington (1930):
(Grand Master) : Masonry is faced with a condition and not a
theory; a condition that is having a cumulative effect; a condition
under which no other institution could thrive. It has been a common
and easy explanation that the intricate Masonic System furnishes
more attractive fields which lure away our members, but it is my
observation that these fields are no more enthusiastically populated
than are the more somber quarries of the Craft.
It is quite evident that this matter of attendance and interest
and a proper understanding of the nature of the Institution merits
careful and continued consideration on our part. In our efforts to
increase and maintain interest, let us not lay violent hands on usage
and custom and bend the Institution to meet every varying condition
of society. If we do, we have no further right to the nanre of Institution. However, let us not be unmindful of the fact that we are
trying to interest men of intellect with ever increasing demands on
their time and we must make it well worth the time spent, if we
want their time and attention.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

13

Our custom and almost unwritten law that Lodge officers must
be regularly advanced, once appointed or elected, has fastened on
many Lodges a regime of ritualists, mumbling at that, who have
neither the education nor experience needed to fit them to preside
over the affairs of a Lodge with efficiency and dignity. Lodge meetings, carefully planned, efficiently carried out and occupied with the
things of Masonry, ritualistic, fraternal or charitable, can be and are
made well worth our time.
CANDIDATES
The old saying that it is not quantity but quality that counts,
still holds good. From articles in the current Masonic press and the
reports of Grand Lodge Officers and Committees, it would seem
that in a large number of cases there is a tendency to resolve any
question of doubt in favor of the applicant, ra~her than for the
benefit of the Lodge or the Institution. The reports of Grievances
and Appeal Committees are testimony to this fact.
We think that the average Investigating Committee in a large
number of cases has outlived its ·usefulness and ceased to produce
the results it should. A stricter means of investigation should be
adopted.
Some of the Lodges have established a semi-official investigation
committee, which passes on applications before they are presented
to the Lodge. One objection to this is that if the applicant is
rejected by this committee it does not become a matter of record
for the Lodge or the Grand Lodge.
One of the large Jurisdictions is now voting on an amendment
to their Constitution, which provides that there shall be a Standing
Committee of Investigation in each Lodge. When a petition is
presented to a Lodge it is referred to this Committee. The applicant must appear before them and also the members of the Lodge
who recommend him. This method would seem to overcoe the
defects of our present system and is doubtless worthy of a trial.
Masonry should be a select organization and the more safeguards that are thrown around it to produce this result, the better
it will be for all concerned. Brother J. Frank Allen of North
Carolina very aptly covers the present condition we believe when
he says, "there is evidem;:e of Masonic indigestion," due to the
character of candidates accepted.
Ireland (1929):
(Grand Master) : There has been no change of real importance,
with one exception, and that was the amendment of the law which

14

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

I moved myself, and which you passed in my absence at the last
communication of Grand Lodge. That was to alter Law 131, the ·
law which forbade a domestic servant or a bailiff becoming a .member
of the . Order. While some very · old and ultra-conservative minds
may not like altering any of these old customs, this must be remembered, that the relations between master and servant are very different nowadays from what they were 200 years ago. A servant was
then thought to be, and was called, a menial. I should be sorry for
anybody to call servants menials in these days. At any rate, I do
not see anything in the profession of a servant derogatory to any
man's dignity in the world. I have met, as I mentioned in the letter
sending the amendment, many men in private houses, in clubs, and
in hotels, wearing a livery, whom I have been proud to call my
friends and my brethren. This was brought very forcibly to my
mind the other d.ay when a well known brother wrote to ask my
advice. He wanted to propose a most desirable and eligible man
for the Order, and I was, very much against the grain, obliged to
write and say t.hat under the existing law it could not be done. Another thing is that in these days it has become an absurdity. It is
difficult to say where a liveried servant begins or ends. We have
been called upon to decide whether a chauffeur is a liveried servant
or not. Some chauffeurs wear livery and some do not. But, a·n yhow,
I think that the whole of them belong to a profession which is just
as good a profession as any other. We were the last Grand Lodge
in the world to keep that law on our Statute Book, and I should have
felt ashamed if my butler came to me and said to me that he wanted
to join the Order and I should be obliged to say "you cannot." That
is all for the best, and I think that it will meet with general approval.
We, and also England and Scotland, make no distinction of
color and race. We admit all colors and all races to the benefits of
Masonry. It is otherwise in America. The Americans have always
told us that we should have trouble with our colored brethren. Well,
we have alw.ays said that we would not, that we had sufficient trust
and confidence in them, but now I do not know what we will say.
I would rather, almost, it had occurred in any other Lodge except
a Lodge of colored men, but if the same thing had occurred in my
own Lodge, or in the most famous and oldest Lodge in Ireland, I
should have considered it my duty to have taken ·exactly the same
step. The first thing to do is to put ·one's foot down absolutely upon
dissension inside the Lodges. And if anything of the sort . has to
be brought to the notice of the authorities, to the notice of the Grand
Master, or to myself, it means that things must be very bad indeed
in the Lodge, because any Lodge that has Masters and Past Masters
should be able to settle those internal differences without having

recourse to higher authorities. I am not reading a lecture to you, I
am only justifying my action in taking the steps I did, and I should
do exactly the same in the case of any other Lodge in t he Jurisdiction.

15

Maryland (1929):
(Chairma11 Correspondence ,Committee) : After a ll is said, we believe that the Fraternity itself should be impressed with the necessity of guarding strictly the outer door-that the utmost care should
be used in the investigation of candidates-that Masters of Lodges
should choose with the greatest care investigating committees and
should instruct them in their duties-that the Craft at large should
be made to realize that the future of our Order will lie in the hands
of the Ashlars now being shaped, and that no one should be admitted
unless he possesses those qualifications which are essential. In our
opinion notices, letters or pamphlets to prospective ca·ndidates will
do little good-the remedy lies amongst Masons themselves. Every
doubt as to the fitness of a candidate should be reso lved in favor of
the Lodge and it is better, far, far beUer, to err in the application o f
the rule of exclusion than in that of inclusion. ·
Nevada (1929):
( Chairma11 Correspondence Committee) : The newly received
brother upon his entrance into Masonry comes into a world of emblems and symbols, and whatsoever takes place therein has a meaning behind it, being one which is not always indicated on the surface.
The import is sometimes manifold, depending on those various
points of view from which it can be approached. When its doors
open for the candidate to enter, he enter s an institution which has its
branches spread over the four quarters of the g lobe. It may be a
very small Lodge of poor brethren, only, yet whosoever is received
therein is recognized throughout the Masonic world, in all countr ies
and among all peoples.
New Brunswick (1929):
(Grand Master) ; I fear that there is one evil custom increasing
among us, of admitting applicants who are not in a position to meet
the cost of membership and to become regular cont ributors to
Masonic charities. I have known of at least one case in which the
applicant borrowed money to pay his initiation fee. It would be
better if an applicant were required t o show that he is not only selfsupporting, but that he has made some provision for the support
of his family in case of his death, before his application could. be
considered.

17

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCli:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nova Scotia (1929):
(Chairman Corresponaence Committee ) : We copy the following
amendment to the constitution of Illinois Grand Lodge without
comment except to say that, apparently, if a man of good repute,
true and trusty, were a resident of the State of Illinois for twenty
years, no chance for him to join one of their Lodges unless· he were,
or became an American citizen. The amendment is as . follows:
"Every candidate applying for the degree in Masonry must have
the senses of a man, especially those of hearing, seeing and feeling;
be a believer in God; a citizen of the United States of America;
capable of reading and writing in English, and possessing no maim
or defect in his body that may render him incapable of conforming
to what the several degrees respectively require of him."
This may be Freemasonry, but so far as citizenship is concerned,
with all due deference, we have our doubts. Thank the Lord, no
such enactment can be found in any Canadian or British jurisdiction
the wide world over, but the Grand Lodge of the big and important
State of Illinois swallowed it all right.
A large number of Decisions and Rulings are reported, one being that a man who "has been illegitimately born, it makes no difference how good a man he is, cannot be made a Mason." That,
certainly, is visiting the sins of the parents on the children with a
vengeance. Masonic charity, hey?

gratify or an idea to exploit, or possibly because it seems to be the
fashion to join. The principal thought in such cases seems to be to
gain something rather than to give something.
Our Fraternity ought to be a body of specially selected men,
consecrated to a certain set purpose; therefrom it follows that only
those who possess the qualifications for its work should be permitted
membership. True, Masonry ·takes the rough Ashlar and makes it
into a perfect Ashlar, but the process of selection takes place before
.the stone is cut and polished.
Unfortunately, in many Lodges this process of selection is given
scant attention and no system or guidance whatever is provided for
investigating committees in the performance of their important .d uties.

16

Saskatchewan (1930):
(Grand Master): Brethren, let me remind you most emphatically that the choice of material is of vital importance to the future
of the Craft. The strength of our Institution depends upon the worth
of its individual members. We need not of necessity accept any and
all kinds of material; we have the privilege of choosing and selecting.
We do not expect perfect men by any means, but we should insist
on men who have already laid a foundation upon which we may build,
men who are not decayed by the wrong living of years, men who
have character and intellect sufficient to grasp the richness of the
moral banquet which Masonry spreads before them . . Let us have
clean men ! We do not want the libertine, the man of loose · habits
or unclean tongue. The man who deals lightly with virtue and whose
eyes do not turn with reverence to God, cannot be made a perfect
Ashlar. Masonry cannot reform him and he will be a blight ·to the
Craft.
Too often evidence develops, after it is too late' to act upon it, that
some men enter the Craft chiefly because they have an ambition to

South Australia (1930) :
(Grand Master) : The warning I wish to utter is against a possible temptation towards undue competition-against any tendency
to attract candidates, or members, by unauthorized methods ·of innovations. The Lodge does not exist to amuse or to entertain. It exists
to promulgate, and to promote the practice of the principles that we
profess to teach. Ours is an exclusive Fraternity. It is not exclusive
in the sehse that we exclude on grounds of color, cast or creed; but
it is exclusive in the sense that we profess to secure our privileges
to worthy men, and as we trust to worthy men alone; and the firs t
.qualification of worth, in any candidate, should ·be that he must come
of his own free will and accord, attracted by the ideals of the Craft
and attracted by nothing else.
South Australia (1930):
(Deputy Grand ·}.foster) : Freeriiaso~ry did not want in it men
who were good Freemasons on Lodge nights only, and any other
kind of man the r~st of the week. One of the firs t essentials of a
candidate was that he be a good man and by that he meant a good
living man. The Craft was an institution which should improve
those who entered it in a right spirit, but it was not a reformatory
nor did it set itself up to be. He would say, "Guard well the portals." A steady influx of the best type of men was surely ·all that
was needed to maintain and carry on the high ideals which the noble
Craft 'taug'ht. Numbers were not everything; it was quality that
counted.
CHINA
We 'have often heard of the "Chinese Freemason" and a large
number ·~l'pe9ple ·have . erroneous ideas regarding Masonic conditions

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

in that section of the world. The following address delivered by
Brother W. R. Pettus before the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, is
interesting and instructive:

varied from place to place. During a recent visit in Shanghai with
the Grand Master (whose jurisdiction is the whole world), we
learned that-like the Sovereign Grand Commander of the Southern
Jurisdiction of the Scottish Rite-he was elected for life and enjoys
very extensive powers. We asked him why his organi:i:ation, which
has no historic connection with Freemasonry, should use the term
"Freemasons" in its English title, and pointed out to him that
this would lead some people to regard them as impostors. He replied
that they had no desire to deceive anyone and that they had not
assumed the title "Freemasons," but that in various parts of the
world, when they were questioned by Americans and others regard·
ing the nature and work of their organization, their description of
themselves (without using the word Freemasons) invariably produced the exclamation on the part of their hearers, "Oh, you are
Chinese Freemasons," and it•was the inquirers who gave them that
appellation and it was not assumed by themselves.

Massachusetts (1928):
At 476 Avenue Haig in Shanghai, China, there is an attractive
three-story building, and until recently there was a brass signboard
on the gate reading: "Chinese Freemason." Another sign on the.
same gate reads : "W ootsu Memorial Building," which means that
it is thei memorial building for the Five Ancestors. The Five Ancestors are the Patron Saints of an organization, which includes
hundreds of thousands of Chirtese living in China and in all parts
of the world to which Chinese have gone.
Fifty years ago foreigners coming in contact with this organization stated that they believed that this is the eastern branch, corresponding to the movement known as Freemasonry in western
countries. A closer study, however, of the organization has shown
that it has no historic connections with the Free and Accepted
Order of Masons of Europe and America, but that it originated
in China in the seventeenth century with a group of militant
Buddhist priests who aided the . Manchu Imperial House, but were
later treacherously attacked by representatives of the Manchus. The
survivors of this attack are the Five Patron Saints of the Order,
which for two centuries devoted its energy to the overthrow of
the Manchu dynasty and the restoration of the political control of
the country to the Chinese.
Since the overthrow of the Manchus by the Chinese revolution
of 1911 the society has been gradually developing away from its
political activities of a rebellious nature into a benevolent fraternal
society, devoting itself to the moral welfare of its members and
to the promotion of industry and commerce, and to the cultivation
of better international relations. It has also begun charitable and
relief 'Wbrk for the benefit of members. These things afford inter·
estrng parallels to the qistory of Masonry, which keeps itself free
from po"litical activity in countries where there is political and
refigious freedom.
I
But all well-informed Masons know that in many parts of the
world the freedom of today is the fruit of the work of Masonic
Lodges in the past.
The organization in Shanghai, which is known as "the Chinese
Grand Lodge," dates only since the revolution of 1911, and is the
international headquarters for a group O:to~ganizations which were
formerly more loosely related· and whose work and rituals have

19

CORNERSTONES
In some Jurisdictions the question still continues as to whether
or not the laying of a corner stone is Masonic "labor " or simply
a ceremony. The Church authorities regard the event as a ceremony and the Jurisdictions which hold that viewpoint have complied
with the invitations to lay corner stones on Sunday.
Some of the Jurisdictions try to enforce the requirement that
the corner stone laid by them must bear an inscription relative to
Masonry. As the Chairman of the Correspondence Committe of
Nevada states, this is "pure publicity seeking and nothing else
when applied to public buildings, churches and club houses."
In sonie cases it has become practically impossible by reason
of the present construction of modern steel and concrete structures
to meet the demands laid down in the old rituals.
Maine (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We note a dispepsation
was refused for the laying of a cornerstone for a church because the
affair was to be held on Sumfay. Technically, of course, it is Masonic
Labor, but the church, knowing nothing of such a technicality, asks
for the cornerstone ceremonial in good faith as a religious service
highly appropriate on the Sabbath Day. Arid your Maine Correspondent has always believed it should be done when so requested.
And to call it "labor" in any real sense of the word is little short
of ridiculous and puts the Fraternity in the position of the man in

20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

the Scripture who said, "I am holier than thou." And we know to
what class that man belonged. A few gavel-raps on a stone the
symbolic spreading of a little moist cement often with a ;ilver
trowel, is not labor in any real sense of the word-and to decline to
do it on t?at ground for a church is to open the Fraternity to welldeserved Jest and even ridicule. This correspondent has perform:ed
the cornerstone ceremonial several times when Grand Master ·of
Maine and considers it "a refreshment". rather than a labor, as such
a ceremony ought to be.

the cornerstone be placed? The Grand Master says that the cornerstone must always be placed in the northeast corner regardless of
the orientation of the building or of its location on the property.
Somehow we cannot grow enthusiastic about this . . I t seems to us
that Masonic practice should be a handmaiden of ·common sense;
btit in this case they seem to us to be widely separated.
Something new under the sun is the laying of a cornerstone at
night, the exercises being broadcast by radio. This occurred in the
case of the erection of the Masonic Hall owned by Hillsboro Lodge
at Tampa.
We note that South Carolina has joined the ranks of the states
which permit the laying of the cornerstones of churches on Sunday.
A certain Charleston church invited the Grand Lodge to lay a cornerstone, and the Grand Master at first declined to have it done on
Sunday; but when the church refused to accept any other date, the
Grand Master evidently thought that if it looked right to the church
the Masonic Fraternity ought not to set themselves up as a hoiierthan-thou guardian and defender of the Sabbath against the inroads
of a Christian Church, and yielded. There is a very worth while
question in this problem. This was a religious. ceremony, an act of
worship, to the church; to the Grand Lodge, it was Labor. Did the
Grand Master take the right course in yielding to the wishes of the
church? North Carolina law and tradition declare that he did not.

Nevada (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Master further sensibly recommended that Grand Lodge rescind its action requiring the following inscription to be placed on all cornerstones
laid. by the Grand Lodge of Delaware, " Laid by the Grand Lodge
A. F. & A. M. of Delaware, 19....... " Such requirements are ridiculous.
We have one in ~vada that is even worse in that it requires that
the Masonic year and square and compass be inscribed upon the
stone. Pure publicity seeking and nothing else, when applied to
public buildings, churches and schoolhouses. Brother Waples rightly
stated that such requirements will and do deprive Grand Lodges of
the privilege and honor of laying cornerstones. Needless to say,
Grand Lodge adopted his recommendation.
New Jersey (193()):
.
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Another cornerstone laying, however, was of a bank building in the City of Charleston, and
the Grand Master commented that it was unusual to lay the cornerstone of a business structur.e, but that in view of the fact that it
occupied ~he sit~ of the building in which Solomon's Lodge, No. 1,
:vas c?nshtuted in 1736 and following that by the Shepards Tavern,
in which the Mother Council of the A. A. S. R. was organized in
1801, he deemed that these historical facts in connection with the
site merited some official notice and we think that it was an exercise
o.f sound dis~retion in placing a substantial building on a historical
site and making a record in the Grand Lodge Archives of the fact
o.f its being a site of the first Lodge of E?outh Carolina and also the
site of the organization of the Scottish Rite.
North Carolina (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Among the questions
placed before the Grand Master is one dealing with the location of
a cornerstone. If the Masonic Temple faces West, where should

21

Utah (1928):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It may be of interest to
note that the first laying of a cornerstone with Masonic ceremonies,
of whieh we have any record, was similar.in one respect at least to
this of St. Paul's Church. In a weekly newspaper under date of
May ?6, 1722, we are informed that "The affair took place in connection with the building of St. Martin's in the Field. After the first
stone had been laid by the Bishop of Salsbury • • • The first
stone of the fou ndation • • • was laid with a great deal of ceremony by the society of Free Masons, who on that occasion were very
generous to the workmen."
CORRESPONDENCE REPORTS
The Correspondence Reports of the various Grand Lodges contain a source of Masonic education that has in a large manner been
overlooked. Generally they arc not available to all of the members
of a Jurisdiction. The Committee on Correspondence of New York
makes the following suggestion, which if properly applied may
produce good results: "May we suggest that every Worshipful

23

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Master appoint a Committee of interested Brethren to cull from the
reviews the items considered most helpful to the membership and
then set aside at least fifteen minutes of every Communication for
the presentation . of their selections. This can be made a feature
which the Brethren will look forward to with keen interest, because
it will give them an inspiring sense of the great work the Craft is
doing throughout the world."

the burdens and working tools of those who have fallen and join in
bidding them God speed in their endeavors.
No envies or jealousies mar the comradeship of these brethren
who dedicate themselves to the service of Masonic Altars.

22

Connecticut (1930):
(Chairman Corresponaence Committee): We have never seen but
three topical reviews that were worth reading. To ably write on this
plan requires not only broad learning and information, but also a
full fledged essayist. Of living reviewers, we can think of but one
(located in a western state) who can even approach this standard.
Most of us had. better simply strive to be good reporters.
Manitoba (1928):
(Chairmam Correspondence Con1mittee): With the thought of
creating a renewed interest in the Jurisdiction which they represent,
and also that from the composite picture presented in their work, I
might be able to learn what Masonic activities seemed of primary
importance to at least that many of our brethren, I asked almost our
entire list of Representatives near this Grand Lodge to prepare a
review of the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge which had so honored
them. A few did not even acknowledge my request. Of those who
replied a number were prompt in their acceptance of the task set,
and to those I hereby express my appreciation. Ill-health, excessive
modesty as to their talents, no copy of the Proceedings or that comment which almost always adds insult to injury when sent to one
who also has his work to do-"too busy," generally covered the alibis
submitted.
Montana (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Secretaries and
Chairmen of Foreign Correspondence Committees are to us familiar
names of men whose loving and lovable personalities seem to stand
in living presence before us; there is no sham or hypocrisy about
them; there is no ignorant populace upon whose credulity they may
ply tricks of thought, logic or reason; they are all virile, manly human
beings whose sole aim is to advance the cause of humanity and to
help the attainment of the true light.
We shed tears of sorrow when one of these men departs from
this earthly sphere and rejoice in the greetings of those who take up

New Hampshire (1930):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): They have a new Correspondent in North Dakota, whom we have been privileged to meet.
Ordinarily a Correspondent has a foreword, in which general topics
are presented. But this one in North Dakota puts these into a special
committee report and reads it to the Grand Lodge, as a thing of
formality, thus requiring specific action upon it. This is a c~nny
thing, because it forced upon those who heard it read the fact that
there is in North Dakota such a thing as a well prepared story about
all other Grand Lodges, which they ought to read. It was in every
respect legitimate Masonic advertising, craftily perpetrated. Congratulations upon knowing. how to do it and upon doing it.
In Kentucky they call it Doings of Other Grand Lodges. In
New Hampshire it is called Foreign Correspondence . . Under the
Kentucky way you sense right off what it all means. Under our way
you have to be educated before you may understand. It is the modern
against the old.
A few choice ones have occasionally told me that they read what
I write. That d'oes me good and does them no harm. I wish that
there were more of them.
South Carolina (1930):
(Chairman Corresponaence Committee): Brother Henry C. Ya~n,
P. G. M. of Mississippi, calls attention to two distinct styles of Review
that characterize the work of the Correspondents. One is the prosaic which deals with the plain facts and their practical application.
The other, while dealing with the facts which constitute current
Masonic history, soars into the realms of speculative thought and
clothes its findings in pleasant rhetoric and enticing verbiage. "Since
the taste of the reader also varies," he says, "we shall refrain from
condemning either style; but we confess a leaning to the latter, notwithstanding we may sometimes get our met~phors mixed." We
appreciate Brother Yawn's broad and kindly attitude towards the
variety that may be found in the work of the Corre$pondents. We
have no disposition to criticize any brother for the type of work that
suits him best. Creation expresses itself in manifold ways whether
in the human or natural sphere. Variety is the spice of life. But for
this it would be a tasteless task to peruse the yearly Reviews. As
it i~, v~riety found in individuality lends flavor to the work and
makes it palatable.

24

REPORT ON CORRhlSPONDENCE

: The work of the Reviewer is not an easy task. He soon disc~vers that he has two classes of readers. One class is made. up of
his ·fellow Correspondents whose experienced insight into things
Masonic is. such as to demand of him fine discrimination, keen analysis, and piquant discussion. The other class consists of the rank and
file of his own Jurisdiction who are looking to him to furnish such
information as will tend towards an intelligent comprehension of
~ontemporaneous Masonic history, and without which they have no
other source of supply. He may try. to satisfy either or both of these
<;lasses. If he is ambitious to win for himself a plac.e of distinction
at the Round Table he may spend his time breaking lances · with the
Knights of the Goose Quill in an endless tournament. If he desires
to serve his constituency according to its need he will endeavor. to
give an intelligent statement of the facts, events, and de.p artures ·to
be found in the current history of the Masonic world. If he is unusually gifted he may strike a happy balance and please both ·classes.
If he is not so gifted he will find himself among those who . a~e
"damned if you do and damned if you don 1t."
Wisconsin (1930):
(Chairman Correspondeiice Committee): The report on Fraternal

Co~re~ponde?ce of Canada was presented, "received and adopted."
This is a mistake; such a report should never be adopfed by the
yrand Lodge, but simply ordered printed with the Proceedings. The
time that can be devoted to the consideration of such a report, ·during
the hurry of a communication of the Grand Lodge is too short to
digest and understand it fully. It may contain expre~sions of opinion
or criticisms that, so long as they are merely the expression of the
writer of the report, would not give offense; but being ado~ted by
the Grand Lodge they become the action of the Grand Lodge and
might easily lead to misunderstanding or friction.
.
.
DE MOLAY-ORDER OF
The thought advanced by the .G rand Master of New York that
the Order of DeMolay or the Eastern Star are having perhaps a
bad effect on Masonry, does not appeal to us. That Grand Lodge
has appointed a Committee "to investigate."
Committees "of inquiry" and "pass laws" seem to be failings
not only of our National legislatures but also Masonic Grand Lodges.
California has placed itself on record regarding the Order of
DeMolay and we do not believe that they will ever have any cause
to regret the interest they have taken in this Organization. One of
the criticisms regarding the Order of DeMolay · has been that its

REPOR'r ON CORRESPONDENCE

26

second degree taught Intolerance. The degree itself was prepared
after a thorough study of all of the history that could be secured;
as a matter of fact there was very little of it found available. Into
this section we are embodying an article entitled "The Real Jacques
DeMolay," taken from "The Register," of March 13, 1930, pu~lished
in Denver, Colorado. Those who have had the opportunity of
listening to the Orator's charge in the Order of DeMolay will note
that the historical facts exemplified in the DeMolay Degree are
practically the same as those developed by the writers of the
Catholic Church who have now studied the question.
. THE REAL JACQUES DE MOLA Y
"THE REGISTER," March 13, 1930, Denver, Colo.
To most Americans the term Knights Templars connotes a
l~rge fraternity within the Masonic order. But the original Knights
Templars were a Catholic religious oi:der, one of the military organizations of men under vow that arose as a result of the Crusade
period. Jacques de Malay, the last Grand Master of the real Templars, was put to death by a vicious King of France who was anxious
to gain control of the order's property. His martyr<;lom is commemorated in modern Masonic degree work and his name has been
given . to the society of youths promoted by Masons. Recent discoveries about the real history of Malay are, therefore, of interest
to the general public. The Central Bureau of the Central Verein, in
its editorial service, has just announced :
The results of twenty years of historical research in many instances demand correction of older opinions. To volume ten of the
Catholic Encyclopedia George S. Goyeau, a well-known French
scholar, contributed the article on Jacques de Molay, the last Grand
Master of the Templars. While insisting that Malay was innocent of
the charges brought against him by his accusers, Goyeau assumes this
victim of the ambitious and autocratic Philip IX of France to have
"pleaded guilty to some of the imputed crimes, notably the a.lleged
obligation to the Templars on joining the order to deny Christ and
to spit upon the crucifix." Malay is further accused by Goyeau to
have "repeated these same admissions and denials" ( the latter related
to charges of a sexual nature) also on his second appearance before
the inquisitor general of the kingdom, October 25, 1307. In explanation of this action on the part of so distinguished a knight and man
of integrity the French publicist writes: "It is supposed that his
(Malay's) ~bject in making this partial admission was to save his
comrades from the extreme penalty."
It seems not to have occurred to Goyeau how unworthy of the
subject of his biography this attitude would have been, and how in-

27

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

compatibJe it is with what we know of his char~cter in general.
Father Bernhard Duhr, S. J., a distinguished historian, who refers
to thes~ hitherto dark spots on the noble escutcheon of the persecuted knight-for of course Goyeau merely voiced the opinion of
historians- declares : "So then the Grand Master (supposing the
indictment referred to true) was not alone a contemptible coward,
but also a mean calumniator."
Father Duhr believed it a duty of justice and charity to investigate this phase of the terrible tragedy, one of the saddest of medieval
times. An imperious king, seeking to extend his influence and power,
and a weak Pope, swayed by the will of the headstrong monarch,
expfain to a great extent the events in which both a number of
ecclesiastics and lay1nen took so ignoble a part. Molay, on the other
hand, looms as a man possessed of Christian fortitude, upright and
unafraid, whose reputation was of the highest until the very day on
which he fell into the hands of his enemies. And all through the trial
the members of his order spoke favorably of him. Investigations
conducted outside of Paris in France failed to bring to light anything
but praise for the deposed Grand Master. It is difficult to believe,
therefore, that this man should have confessed falsehoods.
Father Duhr does not, having weighed the evidence, hesitate to
declare the information supplied by the inquisitor, William of Paris,
who, on October 14, 1307, conducted the first hearing of Molay,
entirely untrustworthy. He believes the torture to have been applied
to the Grand Master in spite of certain contentions declaring he had
not made the notorious confessions under duress. The distinguished
Jesuit historian, considers it highly improbable that those acting
under instructions from Philip, to question the prisoners until they
had confessed and adhered to their confessions, should have been
willing to omit the torture while obtaining from so important a
witness, as the Grand Master, the admissions desired by the King.
As to any evidence that Molay was not tortured, Duhr remarks it
does not exist! Pamphlets, and the like, full of exaggerations and
discrepancies, which emanated from sources inimical to the Templars, are not deserving of serious consideration.
Duhr's essay, published in the Jesuit review, "Stimmen der
Zeit," clears Molay not merely of guilt of those crimes for which
ultimately he and a number of other Templars suffered death at the
stake, but als·o of _ the . imputations referred to. He quotes, among
others, the opinion of a Protestant historian, Wenck, who says:
"The execution of the Grand Master was nothing but the last link
of a chain of actions, intended to compromise the order. The King
needed them to vindicate his action in the eyes of the people."
Molay died, thinks Duhr; "for the cause of justice and the innocence

of the ordet-ttuly a real martyr !" And such many of the people of
Paris thought him at the time, since they sought to obtain f~om the
ashes of the pyre on which he expired relics of him and his companion at the stakie, the grand preceptor of the order.
Freemasons have attenipted to claim Jacques de Molay for themselves. The junior branch of the sect bears his name. History
grants them no such privilege. Molay remained a fait hful Catholic ;
while in prison he repeatedly requested that his chaplain be granted
permissio n to read mass in his presence. ~~ and _the _Grder of
Knights Templars were the victims of an amb1t1ous King, Jealous of
their power and influence. Individuals and. political polici~s, an_d not
religion, were responsible for this sad episode, over which history
has at last sl-\ed the light of truth.

26

New York (1930}:
(Grand Master) : Grand Lodge recognizes only four oq~anizations
as Masonic; namely, The Grand Chapt<1r of !loyal Arch Masons,
The Grand Council of Royal and Select Masters, The Grand Commandery of Knights Templar and The Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, Northern and Southern Masonic jurisdictions.
These organizations are of long standing, and are permanently
attached to our Masonry. They include in their memberships many
of our best Brethren and have been conspicuous in their charitable
and benevolent activities.
We trust that the attachment of the Brethren to these associate
bodies does not detract from their interest in Symbolic Masonry.
So long as this is so Symbolic Masonry is helped rather than
harmed. We rely upon the loyalty of the Brethren to see that this
condition prevails.
Besides these recognized bodies, there is a large number of
organizations claiming connection with Masonry. W~th mos_t ~f
them the claim is based upon the fact that membership therein is
predicated upon membership in our Fraternity or on blood or
family relationship to our members. These organizations are, in
common parlance, almost too numerous to mention, and an enumeration of them now would probably be incomplete another year, for,
like mushrooms, they spring up overnight.
They may be divided into two classes. First, those who require
that their members shall all be Masons. Second, those whose members are both Masons and Non-Masons, and those who have no
Masons in their membership.
The former class includes a large majority of these unrecognized organizations. Being composed entirely of Masons, the public

28

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

who do not belong to our Fraternity naturally look upon them as
part of our general Masonic organization, and indeed, many of
our own Fraternity so consider them. The conduct of some of
them at t~mes is not creditable to Masonry. Not being recognized
as Masonic by our Craft, they are, as organizations, beyond the
control of Grand Lodge, and are a law unto themselves. While
this is true, nevertheless, Grand Lodge does have control over the
individuals who compose these memberships.

Masonry, · that I took the stand that I did against countenancing
any such connection, and not because of any hostility to the Order
itself, or the work that it is doing for boys_.
From reports received I am encouraged to believe that the
Lodges and members of our Fraternity are coming to my own
viewpoint.
In my judgment the existence of these organizations composed
wholly or partly of Masons and some of them with no Masons
as members, weaken Craft Masonry, and that if we are to preserve
Masonry in its purity, integrity and supremacy, serious consideration must be given to them.
I therefore recommend that the Grand Master be authorized
and directed to appoint a committee to make a careful investigation
of t.he matter and to give serious consideration thereto, including
the question as to whether or not our members should be. prohibited
·from membership in these other bodies, or any of them, and that
such committee be directed to report to the next communication
of Grand Lodge. (Adopted.)

I do not question the good intentions of our Brethren who
join them; they. do. not harbor any thought of disloyalty to Masonry;
but membership 1n these organizations necessarily divides · their
allegiance, their time and their resources.
·
The organizations belonging to the second class are divided into
those who admit Masons into their membership and those who do
not. To the former belong the Order of the Eastern Star and to
the latter the Order of De Malay.

It will be not~d that those who compose the memberships of
these two organizations (exclusive of Masons who . are permitted to
JOtn the Eastern Star) are not eligible to membership in Masonry.
They comprise women and boys or young men under age. The
Landmarks prohibit their entry into Masonry; yet each class claims
a ~onnection with Masonry, the Eastern Star because of the fact
that Masons are members of it. The Order of De Malay claims
a connecting link with Masonry through the fact that Chapters
there~f must be sponsored by Masons, either in an organized
capacity, or through some particular group of individuals Masons.
. . To my mind th.ese groups, composed of persons who are pro-

h1b1~ed from becoming Masons, present the most serious problem.
Unhke the organizations containing Masons, Grand Lodge has
no control over their individual members. Their relation to Masonry
can be regulated only by our own attitude toward them. Because
of this I have insisted that the Order of De Malay should not be in
any way recognized as a Masonic organization. I have similar convictions concerning the Eastern Star.
I have no opposition to either of these bodies as long as they
operate independently and without attempting to attach themselves
to Masonry, or to become so considered in the popular mind.
I was · convinced early in the administration of my office that
De Malay was rapidly becoming considered as Masonic. It was
f.requently referred to as the Junior Order of Masons and other
hke terms. I found that many of our own Brethren seemed to look
upon the Order as a part of Masonry. It was for these reasons
and beca use the members thereof are ineligible for membership i~

29

Wisconsin (1929):
(Grand Master): Not since the organization .of the Masonic Fraternity back in the centuries has the Craft had an opportµnity of
doing so much good in any one of its activities as is offered in the
p-romotion of the Order of De Malay. It strikes right at the, very
foundation of the superstructure and enables us to produce the
Perfect Ashlars so much needed in the work of rebuilding and
edifying our Masonic structure. It is a fact beyond dispute that
we select the future Mason from our own environment largely
from sentiment and because of the ties of blood and relationship,
whereas the candidate for Masonic honors has no knowledge of
what is before him. Sometimes, many times, he petitions for Masonic
light out of · curiosity, mingled with a desire to follow in the footsteps of those he knows and trusts to help him in the paths he has
not known.
All this is well; but when you begin training your boy in the
tenderest years of his life, to place ·upon him responsibilities connected with mystery, you at once help to broaden him out and
build the foundation of manhood upon a higher plane. Take any
well-conducted Chapter of the Order of De Molay-and be it said
to our shame that only a fraction of the Masons have even ·witnessed the impressive ceremonies of this organization-and you
will be absolutely astounded at 't he impressive work done. Sit
with me, as I have sat with others, in almost breathless silence,

30

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

and watch the masterful manner in which the officers conduct the
work, and as the hour of nine arrives, look around and see every
member of De Molay on bended knee while the Chaplain offers prayer
-a prayer which implores God's blessing upon father and mother,
and includin15 the Masonic institution which your hands and mine
helped make possible. Try it on those of you who have never visited
a Chapter, and you will come away converted to the cause of this
wonderful, helpful Fraternity, ·the strongest arm in the Masonic
Fraternity of the future.
EASTERN STAR-ORDER OF
When the Grand Master of Pennsylvania, through an Edict,
placed the ban of disapproval on the Eastern Star in his State the
reason was not generally known. The remarks of the present Grand
Master of Pennsylvania before the Grand Lodge of New York sets
forth at length some of the conditions which caused this drastic
action.
The remarks of the Grand Master of Missouri set forth a
similar condition arising there. These instances show to what
extent trouble can arise when organizations who have as a requirement for membership connection with the Masonic Fraternity,
endeavor to trespass upon the rights of the parent body.
The action in both cases, while drastic, seems to have been
deserved.
Florida. ( 1929) :
(Grand Matron): Jn behalf of the Grand Chapter of Florida, Order
of the Eastern Star, I present to the Masonic Grand Lodge our gift
of $25,000.00, to be used as an Endowment Fund for the hospital
in the Masonic Home.
Maine (1930):
(Chairman Correspondwce Committee): A touch of what might
be termed matriarchal Masonry was witnessed in the admission of
"a delegation of ladies of the 0 . E. S. to the Grand Lodge and
welcomed by the Grand Master." The Grand Matron addressed the
Grand Lodge in a beautiful little speech which somehow reminded
us as we read it that had the Brethren solemnly arisen with joined
hands and chanted the beautiful ballad, "My Heart at Thy Sweet
Voice," the occasion would have been complete, for the. Grand Matron
closed her talk with these words, "Hand in hand these Orders should
go , one by th~ compasses led straight, one following the Star." And

REPORT ON CORRESPO~DENCE

31'

as the Psalm admonishes us-SELAH. Another zealous Brother
urged interest in and assistance for De Molay and the Order of
Rainbow.
Missouri (1929):
(Grand Master): During the year my attention was called to an
anonymous pamphlet, saig to have been circulated at the !~st Grand
Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star, with a request that a thorough
investigation be made with a view to finding whether or not such
acts are un-Masonic, and also, w.ho requested such information, and
for what purpose?"
Growing out of this, and other matters, several law suits have
been instituted. Most of the parties, plaintiff and defendant, are members of the Order of the Eastern Star. Some of them are members
of the Masonic fraternity.
As in all controversies where some personal feeling is injected,
many charges and counter-charges have been made.
Necessarily, I have heard many stories, nearly all of the. st~te­
ments being hearsay. As Grand Master, I confined my investigation
to the strictly Masonic side of the question. I understand that the
Grand Chapter, 0. E. S., has appointed a committee to investigate
the matter.
I have endeavored to make it clear to the Craft that no person,
committee newspaper or organization would be permitted to investigate any' Masonic Lodge in ·the State of Missouri, because that is
the function of the Grand Lodge or its officers. As your Grand
Master, I have made such an investigation.
I found that certain records of the Lodge had been illegally and
unlawfully revealed. But I further found that the officers and members of the Lodge had released such information without knowing
that it was to be published and under a mistaken idea as to its purposes; and that there was no moral t~rpitude inv~lved. Accordingly,
a proper reprimand was administered to certam mem~ers an~ a
definite promise made to m e that never again would any information
be given out unlawfully by that Lodge or any of its members.
Every Freemason knows , or ought to know, that it is improper
for any Lodge, officer or member to reveal the transactions of any
Masonic Lodge to anyone, except - members of the Lodge or the
duly constituted authorities of the Grand Lodge or a legal committee representing the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master. The
same rule applies to divulging any Masonic information.
Having taken the · position that no other organization. wou~d be
permitted to invade the province of the Grand Lodge m this or

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

any other matter, the same rule should apply to the Grand Lodge
invading the prerogatives of the Grand Chapter, 0. E. S.
The Grand Chapter can, and will, in due course, properly work
out its own problems. In the meantime let every member of the
Masonic fraternity always bear in mind those truly Masonic virtues;
"silence and circumspection."

Now, Brethren, those were the things that led us to see that if
we did not do something the Eastern Star would control us and
we would not control them. And, therefore, Grand Master Sell
issued his edict. Our Grand Master has a great deal more power,
as I understand it, than yours here. The Grand Master ·saw conditions and acted, no vote of Grand L odge being required. The
Grand Master issued an edict that all members of Lodges in Pennsylvania had to resign from the Eastern Star within six months,
and those not doing so would be expelled. There was some demurring; there were some who threatened law-suits; but in all only
about a half dozen resigned or were suspended, and later on they
all came back. I think without a single exception every one of them
came back, and begged off; and now we are going along as happily
as ever.
Now, many of them could not see it down there, as probably
many of you cannot see it. I have had men come to me and say,
"Why this edict? What is the matter with the Eastern Star? I go
out with my wife and we have a pleasant evening and she enjoys
these things as well as I do; what is the matter with it?" Well,
when I told them some of the things that I have told you, they
have said, "I see it, and I am satisfied." With · us the Eastern Star
is a thing of the past, and I think we will never go back to it,
because we have seen how it is working out.
We have one Lodge about which I am going to tell you, because
it is of particular interest to you. M cKean County is a county on
the border line of the State of New York, and the county seat of
this county is Smethport. For some reason or other there seemed
to be some unduly zealous members of the Eastern Star in the
Lodge in that town. They kicked up quite a row, and finally about
twenty-five of thern resigned and came over into New York. They
joined one of our Lodges. That was all right-entirely regularwe had no fault to find with this action. But what happened? Why,
the Lodge from which these Brethren resigned began to take on
new life. It had freed itself of the kickers. Those left became more
active and energetic and built a new temple. Then some of those
who left us wanted to come back and join the old Lodge, .but they
were given to understand they would not be accepted. Furthermore,
the Master of the Lodge from which they had resigned felt they
should not even be permitted to visit the old Lodge. That probably
wasn't quite fraternal, Grand Master Dutton, but in our state, as
probably in yours, the Master has it in his power to say who shall
visit his Lodge and who shall not be admitted. For th e sake of
the harmony of the Lodge the Master felt that the Brethren who
had resigned should not even be permitted to visit it.

32

Pennsylvania (1930):
(Grand Maste1·) : Now, I don't want to take the time, but I may be
able to tell you something about thi~ Eastern Star. And you will
understand, Brethren, that I am just telling you what took place
in Pennsylvania; I am not telling you what ought to take place in
New York. I have nothing agaihst the Eastern Star. There may be
many of yoti here who feel very kindly toward it ancf are in favor
of it, but it ' did not work out that way with us.
We found that things were becoming bad twelve years ago, and
matters were reaching such a stage with us that the Eastern Star
was seeking to confrol Grand Lodge and also Masonry in the State
of· Petmsylvania. Now, that is literal ; that is literal. I will just give
y'ou a few examples of what they did.
They would go, in many instances, to a secretary who had been
secretary of his' Lodge for fifteen or twenty years and say to him,
"Charlie, we would like you to join the Eastern Star," and he would
say, "Well, I don't care about joining the Eastern Star; I am getting
old." And they would keep at him, and finally they would go to
him and say, "Charlie, if you don't join the Eastern Star you will
not be re-elected secretary at the December meeting." And they
would go to a young man and say, "Now, you are coming on, and
you ought to have a record in this Lodge; we would like to elect
you Junior Warden at the December meeting; if you will join the
Eastern State we will put you over"; and he would demur, and then
they would say to him, "If you don't do that we won't elect you."
Now, we had dozens of cases of. that kind, Brethren ; dozens of them.
We had cases where the ladies-the wives of members-would
go further. I will give you one case in my own town of Harrisburg.
"Charlie" is his first name. He is a traveling man. H e went as far
West as the Pacific Coast, and when he went away his wife opened
his notices; and she would see in there the name of some petitioner
coming up to be balloted on in a certain Lodge-the one to which
"Charlie" belonged. She would call up another Master Mason and
say, "Charlie is away; I see by the notice that 'John Smith' is
going to be balloted for. I don't want him in there, and I would
like you to go there and blackball him." Now, that · is no idle
dream; that is a fact, and there are many like it.

33

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Now, just a little story, because you are tired and you have
been here a long time. I was installed as Grand Master on the 27th
of last December. About a month ago I received a letter from some
man in Nebraska. I do not recall what his title is, but from the
letterhead he apparently was some high officer in the Order of the
Eastern Star. In his letter he said that he thought Grand Master
Sell had made a great mistake in issuing his edict against the Eastern
Star. He told me what a w'onderful organization it is, and the
great things it is doing out in Nebraska, and then said that if I,
as Grand Master, would recall the edict upon the Eastern Star such
action would make m e the greatest Grand Master the State of
Pennsylvania has ever had, and he appealed to me to do this. We
have had some very great men who have been Grand Masters of
the State of Pennsylvania, and you can readily believe that I would
be glad to do anything right and proper that would make me the
greatest of this great body of men. However, I wrote Qack to hrm
and said, as I say to you now:
"I do not know anything about the Eastern Star in Nebraska.
I am happy that it is working out for you the way you say it is. It
did not work out that way for us. We, therefore, changed. We have
ended it, as we hop.e, for good. Personally, I never expect it to
be recognized by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania."
The Eastern Star is a woman's organization, and I haven't a
word against it as such. The ladies who maintain this organization
have just as much right to be interested in it as we have to be
interested in Masonry. Our experience, however, was clearly to the
effect that like oil and water they do not mix.
EDUCATION-MASONIC
This topic still continues a fertile field for discussion among
those who are in favor of an extended campaign of Masonic education and those who are opposed to it. If those who are opposed to
it are correct, the great body of the Masonic Fraternity are · not
interested in a general movement to educate them either along
Masonic .or other lines.
We believe that perhaps beneficial results could be secured if
when a candidate was initiated he was .presented with some Masonic
work, such as Brother Street's " Symbolism of the 3rd Degree,"
Brother Haywood's "History of Free-Masonry," Brother Newton's
"The Builders," Brother Darrah's "Evolution of Freemasonry,'' or
Brother Tatsch's "Outlines of Masonic History." Before being
passed to the Degree of Fellow Craft the candidate should be required to state that he has read the book presented to him. This

35

plan would furnish the new Mason, who is n~turally enthusiastic
and curious, a means of grounding himself in the rudiments of
Masonry, both as to principles and history.
The presentation of the Blue Book to a candidate after he
receives his 3rd Degree could easily be eliminated.
Canada (1929):

•

(Grand Master) : I am firmly convinced that the time has come
when something more definite and constructive should be accomplished in the line of Masonic education. We find in every other
jurisdiction, where Masonry is alive, a growing demand from the
younger generation of the Craft for some substantial food to satisfy
-their craving for knowledge about Masonic matters. As that great
apostle of Freemasonry, Albert Pike, somewhere says in effect "A
few rudimentary lessons in architecture, a few elementary ins;ructions in symbolism, imperfectly pr epared and undersood, a few casual
hints in moral dogma are no longer enough to satisfy the earnest
inquirer after Masonic truth." The leaders in Masonry everywhere
are recognizing this modern development and are seeking a solution.
We lead the young enthusiast through the triple gates of our
tiled and guarded courtyards into the sacred inner temple, and we
wonder perhaps as he surveys with eager eyes all the r iches of our
treasure house, but when he seeks from us the answers to the thousand questions w hich spring from the. fullness of his desire to learn
more about this great heritage which he now shares with us we
discourage him and blunt the keenness of his longing by our 'lack
of means to answer.
What a wonderful field lies before the student of Masonry! This
great fraternity of ours, with all its complexity of tradition and
history, its ritualistic symbolism and peculiar system of jurisprudence and philosophy, its remarkable line of offices, the variety of
its manifold activities, to say nothing of its concordant organizations
and ramifications, surely somewhere in all this wealth of material
must lie some one thing to attract each one of us.
What is the right line of Maso~c education r Of w hat shall it
consist? How shall it be applied an d administered? What should
be its immediate and ultimate objectives? These are regiti mate questions of great importance which many Grand Lodges are trying to
answer in the present day and which I think we can not ignore.
Florida (1929):
(Deputy Grand Master) : I have asked that th e Wor shipful
Masters, upon the raising of a Brother, appoint an older member to

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

sit with him during Lodge meetings for a period of one year. This,
in order to instruct him in the usages and ceremonies as well as in
matters generally Masonic.

audience that these were undoubtedly the identical rocks behind which.
the three Tyrians hid when they made their escape from the Temple,
and from which they gave their exclamations.

Illinois (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence ~onitnittee): Many grand lodges have
inaugurated educational programs in the hope of bringing to the
membership a better understanding of Freemasonry, its history,
object and purposes. In some Grand Lodges this work has been
left to a committee and in others an educational director has been
employed at a competent salary to visit Lodges and hold instruction
meetings. So far as can ·b e determined from the reports. submitted
these educational programs have met with marked success. Of course,
not all Masons are interested in a better understanding of Freemasonry but there are those in the fraternity who want to be well
infor~ed, and to all such these educational programs make a direct
appeal. The time to convey instruction on Masonry is when a man
has first been received into the society. As a matter of fact, at that
time his interest is keen, his enthusiasm is high, and as a result he
wants to know something about the fraternity with which he has
identified himself. It is believed that if some system could be devised
whereby proper Masonic education could be given to the newly raised
Brother it would produce highly beneficial results and perhaps keep
his interest in the fraternity over a long period of time. Educational
programs, no matter how designed, are highly desirable. ·
Illinois (1930):
(Grand Master) : Do Masons really want to be instructed in the
history, philosophy and symbolism of the Fraternity? Are they interested in knowing the absolute truth about the origin, development,
teachings and purposes of the Society? As a matter of fact, are
they not better content to sit at the banquet table, smoke in open
Lodge,· and otherwise contribute to the satisfaction of the physical
man? It is a very difficult thing to get members of a Lodge to come
out to hear a Masonic lecture. If the lecture deals with facts concerning the fraternity which 'are historically correct, it is hard to
hold the atten.tion of a Masonic audience. As a rule, Masons do
not care for facts, but they do love the Baron Munchausen stories
concerning the Society. . . . .
A certain Brother who had never seen the Holy Land prepared
a lecture on Masonry and selected a number of stereopticon slides
with which to illustrate his theme. In the course of his lecture he
threw upon the screen a picture of a cluster of rocks, and told his

37

•New York (1930):
(Grand Master) : To demonstrate the benefits to be derived from a
convenient and economical system of Masonic instruction, Past
Grand Master Street's "Symbolism of the Three Degrees" have been
presented to our Entered Apprentices, F.ellow Crafts and Master
Masons at the expense of Grand Lodge. The cost is 25 cents a
volume. It is believed that their value has been demonstrated to all
the constituent Lodges, and that this pioneer effort on the part of
Grand . Lodge has indicated their desirability, as well as furnished a
very inexpensive method ot securing them.

North Carolina (1929):
(Grand Master): I very frankly told the Educational Field Secretary more than a year ago that his lectures were going over the
heads of a majority of those to whom he was delivering them. In
fact, I told him that as far as I was concerned his lectures started
five feet over my head and got higher and higher as they went along.
The Craft was being served plank steak, when in fact we should
have been given a milk and toast diet; we were started in rhetoric
before. we knew our a b e's; we were introduced into the intricacies
of logarithms before we knew how to add; in other words, we were
beginning at the top when we should have begun at the bottom.

Vermont (1929):
(Chairman Correspo11aence Committee): The serious obstacle to
the idealistic plans of the educationalists in Masonry is indeed the
doltish obstinacy of the rank and file of the Craft, who have no
objection to Study Clubs and Educational Programs so long as they
do not have to do the studying. Of course, we use the word "doltish"
above in an ironic sense, for personally all our sympathy is with the
rank and file in this matter. It represents the point of view of the
educational uplifter rather than ours.
·

Utah (1930):
(Grand Secretary): The fact must be recognized that because a
man is a Mason, it does not follow that he is a reading Mason. Many
never will come into this class. They appear to find all that they
care for in the ritual; in the Lodge meetings, and in the social con-

39

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

tacts which Lodge membership affords. This, however, is not a
new or unusual condition. But observation confirms the opinion-'indeed, the fact is obvious-that the Mason who reads Masonic
periodicals is much more likely to extend his search for information
to books, which treat of subjects in which he has become interested,
than is one who does not avail himself of this means of enlightenment.

Arkansas (1929):
(Grand Master): In the beginning of my administration I asked
the same of my Masonic Brethren in a New Year's Greetings sent
to each Lodge, which ~n part follows:
•
No. 1. In the beginning of the New Year A. D. 1929, let's cleart
our Lodge rooms-paper or paint the walls inside and out, if they
need it. Put everything in a presentable shape and invite our District Deputy Grand Master to visit us.
·No. 2. Clean out all envy and jealousy in our minds; use a
little charity and not so much prejudice; use a little salve of affection
on our sore spots; supplement disappointments, regrets and vanities
with a liberal supply of love ·and gratefulness to the great God of
the Universe for life, liberty and the peaceful pursuit of happiness.
No. 3. Hereafter when I hear a Brother Master Mason maligning another, I will at the time, or soon thereafter, caution him and
remind him of his obligations. Have you not already agree·d to do
that?
No. 4. Hereafter if I know of a Brother Master Mason doing
an un-Masonic act, I will go to him and warn him. Have you not
agreed to do that also?
No. 5. A Master Mason who is a law-breaker, and is unreliable,
is more dangerous to society than a man who is not a Mason and
restricted · only by his conscience and neither bound to God 'n or man
by Masonic vows. Isn't that true?
No.
Masonic Lodges. which have for their offi.cers bootleggers, wild-catters and law-breakers, if there are any such in Arkansas
-and we hope there are none-will not fare well during my administration. Is this right?
N'o. 7. Masons, sixty years ago ·when I was a boy, were outstanding in this country. To say a man was a Mason conveyed ·the
idea at once that he was a good man. What does it mean today?
Just what we make it mean. Are we living up to that standard?
No. 8. All Masonic Lodges have concurrent jurisdiction with
their heighbor Lodges; so if you are not active, you are hindering
and preventing men in your jurisdiction from becoming Masons. Let
me beg you to clean house and make your domicile one of the brightest spots in your community, inside and out, and conduct yourselves
becomingly to the teachings of the ancient, sublime and honorable
order of Freemasonry. Is that too much · for your Grand Master to
ask of you?
No. 9. Belonging to the Masonic order ·is one thing, to . be a
Mason is another. Is that true?

38

Western Australia (1929):
(Chairman Correspo11iien.ce Committee): In some Grand Jurisdictions in the United States, a copy of the V. S. L. is presented to a
candidate, either on taking his First or his Third Degree. In others
a copy of Oliver Day Street's "Masonic Symbols" is given. In Maryland, the newly made M. M. is presented with a copy of Newton's
Vest Pocket History of Masonry. "We don't need Masonic uniformity," a Californian Brother once remarked to this writer. Certainly, there is no uniformity in these presentations.

* * * *
There was considerable wisdom in the Grand Master of North
Dak9ta's opinion that the logical way to get a Brother interested in
Masonry is to provide him with information about the Order, and
that the logical and psychological time is when he has the most
expectant attitude towards Freemasonry, that is to say, "when he is
s till a candidate for Masonic light," by which, our Brother doubtless
means in his earlier stages. Past Grand Master Street of Alabama
has written an admirable work on the "Symbolism of the Three
Degrees," and it is this which Brother Murfin regards as the ideal
work to be presented to the newly-made Mason. It is satisfactory
to note that Grand Lodge later on endorsed his opinion, and expressed its sense that each Lodge should be "urgently requested" to
present to each candidate as he receives his E. A., F. C. and M. M.
Degree the volume appropriate to each Degree.
ETHICS
The fundamental principles of Masonry are and should be well
known to every member. If every member could answer satisfactorily the questions asked by the Grand Master of Arkansas in
his "New Year's Greeting," and live up to the thoughts set forth
by the Grand Master of Tennessee, there would be fewer Masonic
trials. and perhaps some of the general public would have a different
conception of our Organization.

6'.

40

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

No. 10. Wearing a Masonic emblem is to let folks know that
you are a Mason, but there are other ways of proving it which are
more essential and lasting. Is that true?
No. 11. I pledge my Masonic Lodge, to which I belong, that
hereafter I will not speak evil of any Brother Master Mason. If I
can not praise him I will say nothing. Will you niake the same
promise to your Lodge?
No. 12. From this day hence, I pledge that I will watch myself
more closely and be very guarded and careful to say nothing disrespectful or disparagingly of any person, but more especially of a
Brother Master Mason or any member of his family. Are you willing
to join your Grand Master in this pledge?
No. 13. We are responsible to the higher orders of Freemasonry for the material they use, and we should not be jealous or
envy a Brother because he has the higher degrees in Masonry. He
is a child of some subordinate Lodge; we are responsible for his
Masonic birth, and he has assumed additional obligations of fidelity
which only strengthens him and his parent Lodge, and offers to the
world a picture ·beautiftil and sublime, and builds a sacred temple
dedicated to God and the brotherhood of Masonry in the hearts of
men. Am I right in this statement?
No. 14. Good Masons by the multiplied thousands are suffering
and paying the penalty of those who are sailing under false colors
and who are Masons in name only. What is the remedy? Shall we
turn them out and be more careful hereafter as to whorn we take
into our portals? Let's stop them at the door. Am I right?
No. 15. Our churches are continually reminding us of our duties
to God and our fellow-men. What are we doing along these lines?
No. 16. How many members of your Lodge know their Masonic
obligations? Shouldn't they be repeated in open Lodge until they
learn them? How can they obey if they don't know the command?
Illinois (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In reading the various
proceedings of the Grand Lodges of the United States the writer
has sensed the feeling that is generally extant to the effect that one
of the greatest needs in the Society today is a better relationship
among members of the Craft. It does not look very well to have
Masons cheating one another in business; neither does it look well
to have Masons applying vile epithets to other Masons. It is hardly
compatible when a Mason gets into trouble to have his Brothers
dese~t him and refuse to extend a helping hand. In plain English,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

41

if Masonry is to attain its ideal then there should be more practice
and less preaching, and in order to bring this about some means
must be put on foot to stress in the mind of the newly made Mason
the duty and obligation which he owes to hii Brother.

*

*

*

*

*

(Grand Master) : There are many pastimes and forms of entertainment that have their rightful place in every-day life, but when indulged in in connection with Masonry or in Masonic quarters are
inimical to the. teachings of the fraternity and harmful to the reputation of Masonry.
The habit of playing cards for gain, the games being conducted
in Masonic quarters, seems to be growing among the Brethren of
this jurisdiction. This is a direct violation of Code No. 325, against
which the Brethren have repeatedly been warned, and cannot longer
be tolerated.
In ~ertain portions of the state "athletic nights" are popular in
our Lodges. Boxing and wrestling exhibits are given before the
members, and frequently there is no particular display of science ·
connected with these exhibits. They lower the dignity and refinement of our teachings and principles. The Lodges are fraternally
requested to refrain from holding entertainments of this description.
. Clubs deriving their membership from the Masonic fraternity
are using the name of Masonry for their Sunday outings. A Masonic
Lodge ~ay meet on Sunday for no other purpose than to administer
the last sad rites, and these clubs should refrain from the Masonic
reference in their publicity.
I sincerely trust that the Brethren in Illinois will exercise proper
caution in using the words "Masonry" or "Masonic" in any of their
activities outside of the Lodge.
Nebraska (1929):
(Grand Orator): Any organization, secret or public, to justify its
existence must be able to face its past with self-respect and its future
with high resolve. Its history, its landmarks and its traditions should
be a certain guaranty that its future activities will redound to the
honor of its members and result in some good to mankind.
Precept alone, however pure and lofty, means little-fulfillment
means much. A promise by itself means nothing-keeping a promise
means everything.
Nothing injures the good name of the Order (Masonry) or
defeats its aspirations so much as laxity and negligence of its members to remember daily the obligations taken at the altar 1

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

43

The best help a member can give to a Masonic rule or obligation is to obey it. The best way to enforce or help any law of the
country is to obey it. You will agree that it is the first duty of a
Mason in his activities as a citizen to set an example of obedience
to the laws of the country.

Why should we, who boast of the uplifting, refining influence
of the· fraternity, longer permit these and other violations to continue if we really desire Masonry to live? Cheapen it, drag its
banners in the mire, expose it to ridicule and misunderstanding, and
you write its epitaph.

There are several organized agencies in this country today
engaged in the commendable endeavor to teach respect for law and
order, and to teach the value of the protection the law gives to
· persons and property; the courts, the church and the home are the
chief and foremost among these agencies. Our institution, founded
on the fundamental truth of the Christian religion and a faith in the
e.xistence and omnipotence of a Supreme Architect of the Universe,.
should be found among these agencies. It should haye a place in
the front rank of these onward marching hosts in defense of .t he
American principle that the laws must be respected until they are
repealed.

Tennessee (1929):
(Grand Master) : All Masons are not members of a Lodge, nor are
all Lodge members real Masons.
A real Mason never talks about what the world owes hini, the
happiness he deserves, the chan ce he ough to have. All that he
claims is the right to live a nd play the man.
A real Mason is ·d ependable. His simple word is as good as his
Bible oath, and he does a little more than he promises. He is just as
honest in the dark, in his own room, as he is in public.
A real Mason does not want something for nothing , nor does
he want pulls, tips, favors; he wants work and honest wages. He
treats his fellow men as he would have them treat him.
A real Mason is loya l to his friends and guards their reputation
as his own. A real Mason honors a woman, any woman. He cannot
hurt a woman, physically or morally.
A real Mason minds his own business. He does not judge other
people or speak unkindly of them. He always has excuses for others,
never for himself. He is patient an d charitable to them; to himself,
he is strict.
A real Mason is glad to live and not afraid to die. He is a real
man, the finest, best, noblest, most refreshing thing on all i h e green
earth, unless it is a real woman.

Ohio (1929):
(Grand Master) : It seems incredible that with the general rules
of Masonry so clearly marked for every officer, for every individual
for that matter, in the smallest hamlet, or Ohio's largest cities, that
a Grand Master should be flooded with protests from every quarter
of the state regarding a pamphlet circulated in favor of a candidate
for the state's highest office. The protestors knew a Masonic law
had been violated and were correct in making their objection. How
niuch better and quicker action if the Lecturer in that particular
district could have been appealed to directly!
Post cards advertising the sender's business. On the bottom the
square and compasses, number and name of Lodge. In beth cases
the Laws of Masonry and good taste were grossly violated.
Clubs and organizations ·having Masonic membership as a
requisite, organizing for social purposes and then going to the.
extreme in everything that masquerades under the name of modern
amusement. The uninitiated, not knowing the differ ence between
fundamental Masonry and these organizations, is apt to form a
poor opinion of the institution.
Boxing matches taken under serious consideration for sponsoring by Lodges holding an unsullied charter, saved only by the timely
advice of a determined Lecturer.
Raffles, public and private, to raise money for one thing and
another. In the name of common pride, if we cannot pay our own
way, why a ll 'but accept charity for our own amusement ?

GRAND LODGE
In a large number of cases sessions of the Grand Lodge consist
of purely routine matters which are monotonous to the Brethren.
Some of the Jurisdictions are attempting to follow the procedure of
the Grand Lodge of England, Ireland and Scotland by concentrating this work in a Board of General Purposes. This allows greater
opportunity for the members at a Grand Lodge Session to become
acquainte~ and availing themselves of the hospitality of the City
wherein they meet.
The high cost of printing Proceedings has eliminated rosters,
detailed financial statements, etc., which makes the task of the Chairman of the Correspondence Committee easier when acting as a
Reviewer. If it has nothing else to recommend it, the smaller size
of the volume does.

44

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Illinois ( 1928) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : It is often said that a
chosen few run the Grand Lodge, and in most instances this is
true. Much of the work of all our Grand Bodies is done in committees. The committees come before the Grand Body and report,
and the Brethren vote yea. Unfortunately, many who serve on
Grand Lodge committees are men who have served their time in
the work of the Fraternity and are in reality on the retired list, and
others who because of personal influence and political pull seek
appointment on committees in order to get their railroad expenses
paid to the city where the Grand Lodge holds its sessions. As a·
result many of our Grand Lodge committees are not made up
of men who are active in the work and who are thoroughly ·acquainted
with the demands of this modern age. As a result they report different matters according to their own notions and the Brethren
vote yea and then go home and criticize the Grand Lodge for action
taken. It is refreshing to notice that in one Grand Jurisdiction this
year that a certain number of Lodges asked for the passing of
legislation which they see.med to think would be a benefit to them.
It was, as usual, referred to a committee. The committee reported
adversely, and the representatives voted down the committee's report by an overwhelming vote, and passed the legislation which
they so much desired. If representatives only knew it they hold
the balance of power. If the platform rules the Grand Lodge it is
generally because representatives haven't backbone enough to stand
up for the things which they believe to be right.

Iowa (1928):
(Grand Master ) : We had a fine outing at the conference of Grand
Masters at Washington at the expense of the Grand Lodge; but does
it pay? I do not think so. We paid the expense of three to go and
attend those meetings. One· of their discussions was in favor of a
uniform receipt for dues, same tint, so it might not be counterfeited.
Well, we have .g old dollars counterfeited. We have run our own Grand
Jurisdiction for quite a number of years with fair success (possibly
some unnecessary expenditure of money) without the advice of other
Grand Jurisdictions and I cannot think it is our duty to tell what
kind of a receipt they shall have.
Each step of this kind is leading to the idea of a National Grand
Lodge. If the other two delegates spent the same amount as I did
the outing cost the Grand Lodge $438.00, more than half enough to
buy a Ford for our Sanitarium.

Iowa (1929):
(Chairma11 Corresponde11ce Committee): Why not hav~ a Co~­
mittee on Masonic Apathy-a sort of ginger and pep committee as it

were?
Mississippi (1930):
(Grand Master) : More than once I have heard it said that a few
brethren run the Grand Lodge, referring, probably, to our Past Grand
Masters and other brethren who for many years have been attending
Grand Lodge and who have w rought well in the quarries. Such a
criticism is unjust and unmasonic; because none of. these brethren
attend Grand Lodge for selfish purposes, but come here, often at
much personal sacrifice, without hope of fee or reward, and sol_e ly
because of their devotion to Masonry and to the work for humanity,
which constitutes its objective. All honor to these nol?le Craftsmen.
Without them this Grand Lodge would be without its anchor or any
steering device. Thank God, we co~tinue to be guided by their experience, directed by their timely advice and counsel and held in check
by their brotherly caution.
Missouri (1929):
( Gra11d Mas ter) : For a number of years I have been of the opinio.n
that the business of the Grand Lodge should not be the burden of
one man and that there should be more cooperative· effort between
those responsible for the administration of the affairs of the Grand
Lodge. With our policy of electing a Grand Master ~or only ~nc
year, too frequently the best laid plans cann?t be ~ut mto e~~ctlvc
operation in one year and that it would be wise bus~ness admm1st~a­
tion to share the responsibility with those responsrble and to bmld
up a progressive program to be continued through a series of ye~rs,
thereby giving a permanency to the program and at the same time
make it progressive and introducing succeeding administrations to
the responsibility of the office of Grand Master.
So immediately following the last Annual Communication, the
Deput; Grand Master, the Senior Grand Warden and Junior Grand
Warden were called into conference with the Grand Master and a
simple but progressive program, covering a period of four years, was
agreed upon. What has not been completed by the time of this Communication, will be carried on by the succeeding Grand Master and
then each succeeding conference ca n add to the simple program that
was outlined by the four Grand Officers a year ago.
It was my belief that the Committees should be a joint effort
of these four Grand Officers. Some of the Committees appointed

46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

during this year have been agreed upon by these four officers. Generally, the following method has been followed: the Grand Master
would designate the Chairman of the Committee, the D eputy Grand
Master would name a member, the Senior Grand Warden would name
a member, the Junior Grand Warden would name ·a member and the
Grand Master would name the fifth member of the Committee. This
gives permanency to the Committees, provides for progressive succession and gives the succeeding Grand Officers an opportunity to
train a Chairman or a Commit"teeinan for some Committee during
their term of office if they so desire. This policy being carried on will
enable incoming Grand Officers to have a voice in the appointment
of Committees.
The business of the Grand L odge is too enormous for one man
to successfully and properly carry the load and it has been the policy
of your Grand Master to share the burdens with these good counselors and on many occasions their advictt has been better than his
and their views have prevailed over what had been the original purpose of the Grand Master.
New Jersey (1930):
(Chairman C orrespo11de11ce Committee) : The program of the installation ceremony of Victoria is given in detail and from the taiks
of the guests we learn of its imposing dignity and beauty-quite different from our custom, which brings the installation at the end of a
long business session and before a great array of empty benches.
In this part of the world it is the custom for Grand Masters to
make their addresses short. There is· no detailed review of the year
or · report of decisions or correspondence, no dissertations upon the
history· or philosophy of the Fraternity. On the contrary, the Grand
Master speaks briefly on the things nearest to his heart.
North .Carolina (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Lodge of
Minnesota does not intend that its Annual Communication shall be
poorly atte~ded on the second day. On the next page to the last of
the transactions of the Grand Lodge we find that "the Committee of
Pay Roll announced that they were ready to pay and were instructed
to do so after the Grand Officers had been installed."
We confess that we rather like the idea. If the delegates are
going to get paid for their attendance, we think it only proper that
they should be required to remain in .attendance until the last business has been transacted.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

47

We note that the repo~t of the Minnesota Masonic Home Corporation ?s published in the proceedings only in. condensed form,
occupying only nine pages of the book. A parenthetical footnote ~tates
that that full report will be published separately ; and that copies of
this same will ·be mailed to all lodges and all Eastern Star Chap~ers.
The result of this plan is to prevent padding the book of .proceedmgs
·1 We note that the Eastern Stars have raised for the
unnecessan Y·
Th' ·
d
Home $65,146.75, together with an additional $6,000.
is is a recor
which establishes a definite status for that order.
One would suppose that the Grand Lodge of Virgini~ must have
had some trouble from the improper use of the proceedmgs; for on
the cover and the title page of the book before us we find these words:
"That the book containing the printed proceedings of the Grand
Lodge is · the property of the Grand Lodge, and is .issued for the exclusive use of Grand and Subordinate Lodge Officers, ~ast C:rand
Masters, and others as designated in Section 50, Metho~1cal Digest.
This book is to be used for Masonic purposes only, and 1f ~sed by a
Mason for any other purpose it shall be consid:red a Masonic offense
and subject such Mason to trial for un-Masonic condu~t. If us:d b~,
or found in possession of persons other than those designated 1~ this
resolution, the Grand Secretary shall assert the right of ownership for
and in behalf of this Grand Lodge."
" This resolution shall be printed on the cover and ~he ti~~e page
of the proceedings of the Grand Lodge hereafter pubhshed.
TexaJS (1929):
(Chairman correspondence Committee) : Now comes Gran~ Master
of Michigan with report of a certain "Masonic Club.''. organized ~nd
operated gratuitously, without warrant or consen~. This club, wean~g
the good name of Masonry, "caused to be prmted, s.old and distributed, several hundreds of thousand dollars worth ?f ~nterest-be~r­
.
·bonds having printed thereon the word Masonic m connection
mg
'
with its name
and so advertised for sale ·m pu bl'1c press, . ~ · " It now
occurs that this club "is in financial difficulties and are !table to lose
their property holdings." Grand Master observes:
"If this should come to pass, and while this Grand. Lodge would
in no sense be responsible for the indebtedness of this club or the
bonds that have been sold, the word Masonic still. appeari~g upon
them, subjects the Fraternity accordingly to the disgrace 1f a loss
should occur.
"From these matters it would appear that the Grand Lodg.e
should interest itself in the use of the word Masonic and not permit

49

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HEPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCI!:

it to be used without its approval and written consent. No body of
Masons are permitted to institute a Masonic Lodge without a dispensation, the act of Grand Lodge and a Charter permitting the use
of the word Masonic, while on the other hand the wor.d Masonry or
Masonic is being adopted and used without consideration of this
Grand Lodge."
To us it is inconceivable that Grand Lodges play so loosely with
the good name of Masonry. The civil courts of the country offer
every needed protection as against the citizen making unwarranted
use of the name and emblems of the Craft, while the Grand Lodge
itself persistently refuses to even provide for the disciplining of its
own membership in cases of such dereliction.

side matters. This condition of aloofness seems to be fostered, or at
least encouraged, by the conditions arising out of this claim of priority.
We presume that this claim has also added to their extreme
dignity, for it is one of the most notable characteristics of the Grand
Lodge. For our own part we like it, for if any body of men can afford
to be dignified and serious it surely is a Masonic Lodge.

Texas (1929):
(Grand Master) : On frequent occasions in Masonic discussions and
intercourse we hear the cynical coined expression "the amen corner,"
or "It will never 'get by' the 'amen corner,'" alluding by that term to
· our Past Grand Masters and other permanent membership-Masons
who have borne the heat and burden of the day and wrought well in
the quarries of Masonic endeavor. Brethren, if this is meant as a slight,
rebuke, or criticism, it is wrong, unjust and unMasonic. All honor to
these loyal, veteran Craftsmen whose love, zeal and true devotion to
the tenets and principles of our Institution freely and unselfishly have
given of their time, talents, and substance, many times at a tremendous personal sacrifice, without the hope of fee or reward. Without
them this Grand Lodge would suffer an irreparable loss, I might say,
calamity. Thank God, we are privileged today to be guided in our
deliberations by the wisdom of their experience, to be directed by
their timely advice and counsel, and to be admonished by their brotherly caution.
Washington (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It appears that there
exists a peculiar condition in the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts,
arising from the fact that the Grand Lodge had never asked for recognition from the few Grand Lodges older than itself, and also that it
has only formally recognized six of the forty-eight Grand Lodges in
the United States.
The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts has been proud of its claim
of being the oldest Grand Lodge in America, and while that fact is
disputed by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, yet the claim has made
them a !i.ttle inclined to go their way regardless of every other Grand
Lode-e in th e United States, and to be influenced very little by out-

Wisconsin (1929):
(Chair111a11 Corrcs1>011dcncc Committee)': Buckle, in his great work
concerning the " History of Civilization in England" says, in :'ubstance that the greatest service any leg is la tive body can render 1s to
refrai~ from making new laws and repeal a lot of foolish ones already
in existence· and this is no doubt true. But how easy it is to forget
it, and, relylng upon our own supreme wisdom, go on making new
regulations that are worse than useless.
Wisconsin (1930):

· (Chairman Correspondence Committe·e ): The Grand Lodge of
Texas for a second time, by resolution, declared Past Grand Master
John Watson, who was at home confined by illness to his bed, pr.ese~t
in the· Grand Lodge. Of course, the propriety of such a resolution is
one entirely for the Grand Lodge of Texas to determine, but we
must again express our doubts of the power of a Grand Lodge,
potent as it may be, to thus by resolution transfer from a sic~ bed
into their midst one who was not in fact present. The resolution to
this effect was carried unanimously and the Grand Secretary recorded
him as present. Quite a feat of legerdemain.
GRAND MASTER
Proceedings still show many instances where Grand Masters
are called upon to answer questions, wise and otherwise, that might
easily be solved by reference to the printed law.
It· is a heavy burden where the Grand Master endeavors to
satisfy all parties. Education and examination of the Officers
charged with the administrative duties of a lodge is about the only
remedy for this state of affairs. There also appears to be less
inclination among Grand Masters generally to grant dispensations
even where the power is given.
The approval of the decisions of a Grand Master on a set of
facts and as such making them law, has naturally produced a large
amo~nt of special legislation. Making laws by Judicial Decision

50

in our legal system has produced an unsatisfactory condition, and
the same will also be manifested in the Masonic organization if
carried to extremes. It is being done in some Jurisdictions.
Colorado (1929):
(Grand Master) : I have witnessed very little ritualistic work during the year as I purposely requested the Lodges to put on no
degree work at my visitation. I felt that if the Grand Master has
a message for the Brethr!!n he ought not to be forced to deliver
it at the end of a long ritualistic service, when everyone was tired
and after many of the Brethren had gone to their homes. I enjoy
the degree work and I know the Lodges take pride in doing it well,
but I felt that discussion of the work was more especially the
function of the Grand Lecturer.
Idaho (1929):
(Grand Master) : The Grand Master properly reminds the Lodge
representatives that the responsibilities of the Grand Lodge rest
upon th eir shoulders. Every Grand Lodge has too many "yes-men"
who inertly v9te anything which is sprung upon them by false and
superficially-minded "leaders."
In rendering decisions which create new law, some Grand Masters ignore and pull down one or more of the foundations upon
which the whole structure of Masonic law is based. Unfortunately,
in this occasional craze for new things, they are at times upheld
by superficially-minded Brethren. To such we could caution: "Stop,
Look, Listen," and INVESTIGATE.
Iilinois (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : An examination of reports of various Grand Masters show that this year fewer decisions
were rendered than heretofore. A number of Grand Masters reported
to their Grand Lodges that they had been able to go through the
year without making a single decision, while numerous questions
h ad been submitted they had been able to answer everything by
reference to the statutes. This is a most 'welcome condition and
shows that Freemasonry is commencing to stabilize. For many
years Grand Masters considered it very necessary to make one or
more 'd ecisions in order to erect monuments to themselves. Many
of these decisions were unnecessary, but they were made, nevertheless. It was thought a very fine thing to take up intricate matters
and then make some decisions covering the subject. It is believed

•

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

51

that Freemasonry is today burdened with all the law that it actually
needs and that no possible good can come in the making of new
legislation. I t is believed that th ere are enough laws, rules and
regulations on the statute books to take care of the needs of Freemasonry for many years to come. It is bad practice to legislate
for every little thing that arises, and it should .be remembered that
the little ills or the Fraternity both real and imaginary cannot be
cured by passing laws. Something deeper and more significant is
required.
Manitoba (1929):
(Ch4irman Correspondence Committee):
Walker Reid of Alberta in his address says:

Grand

Master

J. C.

"I do not believe that any Grand Master can lay down the
gavel of office feeling that he has accomplished everything tha t he
would like to have done, each can only do his best, and the best of
some is necessarily better than the best of others."
These words are most true. A Grand Master after his election
plans to do great things during his term of office, but his plans miscarry. Some jurisdictions re-elect fo r a second year. There are
many things to be said in favor of this plan and there are many
arguments against. One of these, and not the least, is that there
are few who can give two years of time to this work, and it takes
many weeks of time to do it even in part. So that, while one may
be prepared to give the great honor-and it is a great honor ·to be
Grand Master-.a year-there are many brilliant and outstanding
Masons who could well fill the office, who are not and can not in
justice to their families give two years to the work, so that it
might follow that the best man may not be able to accept the office.

* * * *

Brevity may be the soul of wit, and if it is also an evidence of
wisdom then the medal should go to Grand Master Seipp of Maryland, as his address barely filled three pages.
Jllebraska (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The installation of the
Grand Master in the Australian Grand Lodges is a formal, dignified
and impressive ceremony, far removed from the hurried and casual
performance usua lly closing our American Grand Lodges. As a
sample of what should be approximated we refer the curious to
pages 124 and 125 of the New Zealand proceedings for 1928 in
which the program of installation is printe.d in full.
'

52

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

We may say that the New Zealand Grand Lodge as far as may
be gathered from its volume of proceedings seems to be the most
formal and precise of all in the observance of formalities.

Pennsylvania (1929):
(Grand Master) : On March 7, 1928, in Philadelphia, it was my
privilege to exercise the prerogative of Grand Master of making
His Excellency, John S. Fisher, Governor of the commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, a Mason at sight, in recognition of his sterling character, wide experience in public affairs, rare ability, his altruistic
services, and strong personality, the degrees being conferred by
the Grand Lodge officers.
On December 28, 1928, at Pittsburgh, it was my privilege and
pleasure to make Andrew W. Mellon, Richard B. Mellon and Richard
Coulter, Masons at sight.
On June 13, 1929, at a special meeting of Union Lodge No.
121, I had the extreme pleasure of making my son, Robert Drummond Smith, age 20 years, a Mason at sight.
Washington (1929):

North Carolina (1930):
(Chairman CorrisPondence Committee) : We discover a mode of
electing and installing the Grand Master in Rhode Island which
differs from our procedure. Immediately after his election, all of
the Past Grand Masters present wait upon him and escort him into
the Grand Lodge, where he is at once installed by the retiring Grand
Master, who surrenders the gavel. Of course, he is so surprised
at having been elected, and so excited about having been installed,
that he does not feel able to preside during the remainder of the
election of officers, and therefore modestly requests the retiring
· Grand Master to take the gavel again, complete the election and
install the other officers.
The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania exercises
greater power, perhaps, than any other Grand Master. He is not
troubled by having his acts reviewed by a Jurisprudence Committee
when the Grand Lodge meets. What he does is law unless and until
some succeeding Grand Master shall annul his actions. Thus we find
that the Grand Master sits as a Court of Review in the adjudication
of the qualifications of petitioners for the degrees.
New South Wales (1929):
(Pro Grand Master): "The Grand Master shall not be applied to on
any business concerning Masons or Masonry exce'pt through the
Grand Secretary."
I bring this matter before you advisedly (said the Pro Grand
Master) because some Brethren have seen fit to approach the Grand
Master direct, and criticize the action of this Grand Lodge. This
is against the Constitution, and if it is persisted in it will be impossible for a representative of His Majesty the King to hold office in
this Grand Lodge as Grand Master. In future, the Grand Master
will not reply to any letters addressed to him direct as such, and I
hope that Brethren will henceforth respect our regulations and
refrain from addressing him except through the Grand Secretary.
There is one thing more. It has come to my notice that on the
day following a recent communication of this Grand Lodge, what
was practically a full report of the proceedings appeared in one of
the evening papers. I want to say candidly this is a Masoriic offense,
and . that if it occurs again it will be my unpleasant duty to take
certain steps in regard to it. I do ask you, Brethren, that you keep
as much of our business as possible out of the papers.

53

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : We wonder how a Grand
Master can change the by-laws of a Lodge. We have always felt
that as the by-laws were adopted by the Lodge itself, and were
not dictated to them by Grand Lodge or any other power, that no
one could change them except the body which gave them birth.
We recognize that it is the province of the Grand Lodge or someone
to whom that power is delegated to see that such by-laws are in
accord with the Grand Lodge Constitution, but not otherwise to
interfere. This may be our mistake,, but we cannot see it differently
until we are shown.
Western Australia (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Master's address naturally concerned itself largely with matters of domestic
interest only. A British Mason , accustomed to the a lmost soldie~­
like brevity of such reports in his own jurisdiction, can hardly fail
to be struck with the meticulous care with which the correspondence
about things, both great and small, is set out in the report, date,
superscription, signature, etc. Cui bono?
LODGES
If we may summarize some of the existing conditions that
affect the efficiency of a Lodge we might say that they generally
consist of too large a membership, advancing Officers by rotation
regardless of executive ability or qualifications, subordinati~g the
practical workings of Masonry to ritualistic work, not adhering to
a budget, and the erection of Temples improperly financed.

54

55

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Some of these difficulties have been met by the Grand Lodge
who adopted uniform regulations, but in the other instances they
can perhaps be best handled by Experience and Education.

A lodge of 160 members has a site worth $1,500.00, but no money.
Has plans for a $35,500.00 Temple, expecting to sell stock to mem- ·
hers up ·t o 40 per cent of the building cost and secure a loan for the
other 60 per cent, a total debt of $35,000.00. Interest alone at 5 per
cent on such sum would amoun t to practically $11.00 per member

Iowa (1929):
(Grand Master): Apparently most lodges do not even try to live
within their income, but rather to live at least up to their income.
And their plans, if they have any worthy the name, are made in the
most optimistic spirit of the most prosperous year, with seemingly
never a thought of possible adversity.

I would recommend to them the present-day specific for all financial ills, the budget system; that they figure conservatively the income (not including fees for degrees-an uncertain quantity, at best) ,
and then see that the sum of the expenditures comes well within the
total income, leaving a good margin for safety.
A commodious and elegant home is a fine thing, and to possess
such a laudable ambition, but if secured only with the accompaniment of a bur.densome debt, an ever-present worry and a constant
handicap, 'twere better that a Lodge should live in more m odest quarters, though rented, yet able to carry on.
Some Lodges in the days of prosperity undertook the financing
of Temples entailing debts which now threaten the very existence of
those Lodges. Some have erected or purchased business buildings,
figuring that rentals would pay off the debts incurred, only to find
now, perhaps, empty store room's, converted into liabilities instead of
assets, for taxes, insurance and repairs go right on.
In an affort to meet their obligatio.n s some Lodges have raised
their dues to $10.00 or even more, and their fees in like proportion.
Some think that the Grand Lodge can and should help them. To
these let me say again that Grand Lodge funds are simply the contributions of all the Lodges. And shall we take the money of the
prudent and thrifty ones, some without homes of their own, to provide homes for those which heedlessly get themselves into trouble,
helpless in a maze of debts? I hardly need say that th e Grand Lodge
has no money for such purpose.
Too often these over-ambitious programs are started off with a
big feed, a booster meeting, with a Whoop! Hurrah. Boys! on a wave
of enthusiasm rather than a due consideration of financial conditions.
What a cry went up a few years ago over an additional dollar
in dues for a worthy charity, and yet more than one insta nce of Lodge
building incurred .debt on which the interest alone required $3.00,
$4.00 or even $5.00 from the dues of every member during a term of
years.

annually.
One Lodge by persistent effort has succeeded in paying off
almost 10 per cent of its debt in fifteen years. How Jong to pay the
total debt?
Now·all this has a very close bearing upon one phase of Masonry
-Masonic Relief. Charity, or Brotherly Love, synonymous terms,
one of the most excellent tenets of our profession, should always
have consideration in making up the Lodge budget and due allowance should be made for its possible needs. If a Lodge engages in
undertakings beyond its means, what will it do when some unfortunate Brother needs help? If such improvident Lodge shirks its
duty by shifting the case to the Grand Lodge it bu~ increases the
burden of the other Lodges.
T o sum up all this·, I recommend that the Grand Lodge create a
Board, or Committee, to which all our Lodges shall submit their
plans for financial undertakings of any magnitude. The powers of
such body may be either advisory or mandatory, as deemed best.
Nevada (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): "When Is a Lodge Successful?" The writer's idea of a successful, a prosperous, and great
Lodge is not that Lodge of many members, splendid equipment, and
a big bank account. Even ritualis tic work rendered letter perfect and
with military precision does not make a Lodge great. There may be
a finer spirit of brotherly love and affection, a more convincing power,
in the halting words of a humble tiller of the soil or wielder of ax
or sledge than in the smoothly delivered and faul tlessly pronounced
words of the college professor occupying the East, and work put on
by the light of dim kerosene lamps may be, and often is, more impressive than the same work performe d under brilliant electroliers.
A Mason may be proud of his Lodge because its membership runs
into the thousands and its wealth is a by-word in the Jurisdiction ;
but for love of Lodge, give me the Mason who knows every other
member of his Lodge. We hold with Past Grand Master William R.
Hervey of California that "That Lodge is prosperous an<;I great which
commands the affections of its members, and displays spiritual rather
tha n material wealth."

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDE'NCE

56

57

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New York (1930):
(Board of General Activities) : One of our sister Jurisdictions
a<lopted the system a year or two ago of giving each of its Lodges
an efficiency test. This Grand Lodge adopted a standard of what a
Lodge ought to be; appraised that standard at 100%, and then graded
each Lodge according to its success in measuring up to it. We may
not have need in our Jurisdictiol} to adopt such a system; if we <lid
we might set a different standard; but the idea behind it is one that
will instantly appeal to every one of us. Where is there a Mason who
would not be proud to feel that his is a 100% Lodge?
In the very nature of things such a Lodge would be necessarily
many-sided, touching the nature of its members at every point, able
to satisfy all their Masonic needs. It would have a competent official
staff; its treasury would be perpetually solvent; its books would delight the eye of a certified public accountant; its membership would
live and work in harmony where friendship would thrive and good
fellowship would flourish; its rooms would be appropriately furnished
and decorated, arranged for convenience and equipped effectually; its
ritualistic work would bring joy to the Grand • Lecturer ; its charities
would overlook no Brother in sickness or distress; throughout the.
year its communications would be as various in their appeal as dignified in their conduct; the Masonic mind, the Masonic conscience,
the Masonic heart would find satisfaction in such a Lodge which
would, as a unit, stand in its community as an exemplification of what
Freemasonry is intended to mean in the lives of its votaries.
North Carolina (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master Wood, of
New Mexico, takes a crack at another peculiar dilemma which
Masonry faces, as follows:
When candidates are plentiful, our Lodges become "Degree
Mills" grinding out new material. While this commands the interest
of the officers of the Lodge, it becomes monotonous to many of the
brethren on the side lines. When new material becomes scarce, there
is, as a rule, only routine business to be taken care of; which also
seems to become tiresome to many of the brethren who have the
courage to attend.
If there are plenty of candidates, Lodges become degree mills;
if there are not enough, Lodges become petition chasers. Men don't
want to sit through endless successions of degrees; men don't want
to go to Lodge when there is nothing to do; men don't want to
go to Lodge and there listen to much speechmaking under the
guise of Masonic Ed ucation. What is the poor man labeled Wor-

shipful Master to do? The riddle would tax King Solomon, patron
saint of things Masonic, so to speak. We do not know what to do.
We can only suggest variety as the source of sustained interest. We
must work out a program of Lodge work, injecting variety, and_ put
a new sort of interest in each meeting. It can be done. If other
programs of meetings, like those of Rotary and Kiwanis clubs, were
as badly neglected as the agenda of the L odge, nobody would attend
these, either. We have never seen anything of this sort that would
run itself.
South Dakota (1930):
(Grand Master): A large number of our Lodges have drifted, I
believe unconsciously, into the system of rotation in offi?e. The
Worshipful Master-elect appoints the Junior Steward, _and m. seven
years this Brother becomes Worshipful Master. I be~1eve this system is depriving us of the services of many outstandmg men, w~o
either cannot or will not serve seven years when practically the entire
time of the lodg.e is devoted to conferring degrees. Where this sy~­
tem has become firmly established it has, to all purposes, taken the
privilege from the Lodge members of el.ecting th~i~ Wors~i?~ul Master. I have not written the foregoing m the spmt of criticism, but
rather as a caution against what I believe to be a rather dangerous
system.
Washington (1929):
(Grand Master ) : Our custom and almost unwritten law that Lodge
officers must be regularly advanced, once appointed or elected, has
fastened on many Lodges a regime of ritualists, mumbling at that,
who have neither the education nor experience needed to fit them to
preside over the affairs of a Lodge with efficiency and dignity.
"THE MacDUFF"
In our Report for the year 1928, reference was made to The
MacDuff, a ceremony used in Scotland, Queensland and some. oth~r
Jurisdictions who trace their origin to Scotland. At that time it
was impossible to give a description of what the term really meant.
Thanks to the efforts of the Chairman of the Correspondence Committee of Maryland, we are able to furnish the details.
Maryland (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): After a number of expressions of dissent, it was decided that the "MacDuff" should be
allowed.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC1"J

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

We are glad to note that the Brethren of Queensland uphold
customs which call to mind the old country, and while we believe in
the maintenance of the utmost dignity of the Craft, yet in moments
of relaxation, the continuance of an old national custom, if it appeal
to a Lodge, should not be abrogated if it is not inconsistent with the
teachings of Freemasonry. "A little nonsense now and then is relished by the wisest men," and from the Report of the Proceedings,
it seems to us that the Grand Lodge did the right thing in allowing
the continuance of an old custom.
We have enquired just what a "MacDuff" was and the following
information has been secured. Brother McKean says of the "MacDuff Firing" and also speaks of the "Dumbarton" of the West
Country:
"It is done by hand clap three times and then stamp with the right
foot, at the same time shaking the right first forward in unison with
each stamp. These exercises are repeated three times each, and the
salute is ended with the thrbat cutting and Zea Zea Zea of our ordinary salute.
Clap Clap Clap
Stamp Stamp Stamp
Clap Clap Clap
Stamp Stamp Stamp
Clap Clap Clap
Stamp Stamp Stamp
Zea Zea Zea

Western Australia (1928):
(Gra1ui Master): From Ancient times there has been the recognized adjournment from labor' to refreshment, and today the practice is ranged among the usages and established customs of the
Order. I have often expressed my own belief in the value of the
Festive Board when properly conducted, and I hope that these
pleasant social functions will long continue to be associated with the
Craft, as they provide the opportunity of extending hdspitality to
visitors and forming and cementing friendships among the members
themselves. As the Master is responsible for the conduct of the
Festive Board, just as he is responsible for the affairs of the Lodge
in the Lodge Room, he should be particularly careful to see that
nothing occurs which might be considered derogatory to the dignity
of the Institution or unworthy of its glorious traditions. There is no
place at the Festive Board of the Craft for any suggestive song or
story or anything that is calculated to lower ·the dignity of Freemasonry, so I trust Masters will be watchful and do everything in
their power to elevate the proceedings of the Social Board.

58

"There is also the Dumbarton of the West Country. It is:
Clap Clap Clap
Sit Sit Sit
each repeated three times and ending as before. It needs to be done
in slow time, as the sitting is a more deliberate action than the
clapping. The sitting, of course, gives the name."
Saskatchewan (1929):
(Grand Master) : As we all know, the religious side of the lives of
Masons should never be neglected, although this fact is often overlooked. Nor should the clean, pure, social side of our lives be ignored
as we travel the journey of life.
We never know a man until we have broken bread with him
around the festive board, and on this account I love the social hour
with my Brethren after the Lodge is closed. The friendships then
made are well worth while.

59

Western Australia (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We, in Western Australia,
don't call ·o ur evening " eats" (American colloquialism for "meal")
by the name of "lunch"; it is merely the " festive board." But, except
at installations, it is always of that "light" character which would
gladden Brother Tripp's heart.
If ever Brother Foster desires to attach a motto to his family
name, he might well adopt that of the English Royal Horse Artillery,
"Ubique." He seems to have had a good time wherever he went, and
this scribe, remembering how we West Australian Masons have been
criticized in some Masonic quarters outside Connecticut for sometimes styling our Festive Board the "Fourth Degree," may fraternally welcome, as fellow-sinners, those of our Brother Masons in
that state, who <lo the same, pace Brother Foster. The hospitality
shown on the occasion of his visits was splendid. One reads of suppers, either "excellent," or "splendid," of "chicken pie," of a "turkey
dinner,'' et hoc genus omne. All they seem to have needed was to
·have someone read Charles Lamb's "Essay on Roast Pig,'' and eve.rything would have been complete.
MEMBERSHIP
Statistics collected by the Librarian of the Grand Lodge of
Iowa show that 18 Jurisdictions during the year 1929 show a net
loss, as against 12 for the year 1928. The net increase for 1929

60

REPORT ON CORHESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

dropped to 676, as against 30,000 for 1928. We cannot help but
think that this will be for the betterment of Masonry. ·
This reduction may not be as serious as the figures would
indicate. General conditions may produce in the future candidates
of quality rather than quantity, which should be the aim of every
Lodge.
As a remedy for this loss the establishment of a rule requiring
a waiting period between the various degrees might work for great
good. Some of the Jurisdictions require this, varying from two
weeks to one month between each degree, while one Jurisdiction
allows the subordinate Lodge to fix the period by their laws. We
believe that if a month should elapse between the time a petitioner
is elected and he receives his first degree, three months between the
first and second, and third, making six months in all, it would
produce a satisfactory result.
In these periods there would be ample time for education of the
individual. "That which is easily gained is lightly held." The
Jurisdictions which have established a waiting period of six months
or more before a member could petition one of the co-ordinate
Masonic Bodies seeking the so-called "Higher Degrees" we believed
raised the standard of membership in those organizations.
This interval, while it might have resulted in a decrease in
membership, had the advantage of attracting those who seriously
considered the proposition. It would undoubtedly have the same
effect on petitions to the Blue Lodge.

individual soon finds himself so heavily involved with his various
obligations that he has little or no money to invest for Lodge purposes. In agricultural districts it has been quite the vogue to charge
the small number of petitions received by Lodges to agricultural depression and the fact that the farmers haven't any money and in the
big manufacturing centers the charge is made that the mills and factories are only working on half time with the result that wages are
scant and men are lacking in material prosperity. All of these are
merely superficial excuses. The real reason why more men are not
petitioning for the honors of Masonry must be sought elsewhere. It
used to be thought necessary in every man's life that he should belong to some fraternal organization. If he wasn't a Mason he usually
selected the Odd Fellows, or the Knights of Pythias or the Red Men,
but at any rate in his ir,iventory of valued holdings a lodge membership somewhere was thought vitally necessary, but our manner of
living has changed all this and membership in a lodge nowadays is
looked upon as a very trifling matter. There is, however, in Freemasonry an appeal to the intellectual and cultured man. The problem
before the Fraternity is to how best present that appeal.

Illinois (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The year which is just
drawing to a close has been one of small gain in membership in many
Grand Lodges. Some Grand Masters have been disposed to deplore
the fact and seem to hold to the idea that the attractive power of
Masonry is sufficient to draw man into the Society in sufficient numbers to bring about a substantial increase in membership each year,
but the large number of dimissions and suspensions that are taking
place clearly proves that men are losing their interest in Freemasonry
and are ·dropping out of the Society, and if this is true then it natur- .
ally follows that fewer men will be attracted to the Society with a
desire for membership. In this day and age of the world Freemasonry has much competition. Men no longer go up to Lodge to
seek social recreation. On every hand they find opportunities and
diversions and so varied are the things that are offered that a man is
many times puzzled to know what to select. Then again so many
enticing things are offered, all of which take money, that the average

61

Pennsylvania (1929):
(Grand Master) : For some years the number of initiates has been
decreasing. This is true not only ·in our own Jurisdiction, but in all
Jurisdictions in the United States, and in some states to a far greater
extent than in our own. For the last year twelve Jurisdictions in the
United States have closed the year with a net loss. The reason for
this cannot be definitely determined at this time. There are those
who fear that Masonry is not as appealing as in past years. I am
not satisfied that such is the case, although it is not safe to prophesy
in a matter of this kind. During the years immediately following the
war the number of petitioners increased greatly. In the year 1920,
we reached the peak in this state when there were more than 19,000
initiates. From that time the decrease has been gradual, nntil at the
present time the number of initiates is about the number before the
war. There are many who believe that the number of available candidates in this Jurisdiction is from six to eight thousand per year.
Undoubtedly one of the reasons for the decrease is that in the abnormal years following the war many who had any thought of at
any time going into Masonry acted and were admitted. As a result
many were admitted during the first few years following the war
that otherwise would have come into Masonry in a much longer
period of years. If this theory be correct, we must expect decreased
numbers for some few years yet. The condition, however, should

62

RM]PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

shortly right itself, and the decrease in the number of pet1t10ners
discontinue, if indeed the number should not increase. Numbers
should not so greatly interest us as quality. The aim -0f Masonry is
not to obtain as many petitions as possible for the sake of obtaining
fees out of which costly buildings may be erected, or lavish expenditures made, but to bring into our Fraternity men of high character;
great purpose, broad charity-leaders in the world's activities. What
we want is men interested in what they can put into Masonry rather
than in what they can get out of it. Numbers are only incidental,
quality of manhood is the desideratum. It is an unhealthy condition
when we are so busy making Masons that we have no time to practice Masonry. We owe a higher duty to those who are now Masons
than to those seeking to enter. We have never yet suffered from a
dearth of petitions, and in my opinion if we make Masonry what it
should be, we need have no concern as to ou·r numerical future.
Philippine Islands (1929):
(Grand Master) : Masonry is not a proselyting institution. We are
not obliged to have everybody in our ranks in order to be able to
carry on the good work. We· want not followers but leaders, not
crowds ·but guides. To make our work more thorough and lasting,
we must accept under our banners only the very best, leaving the
rest of humanity to receive the benefits of our activities and profit by
the lessons of our con.duct and actions, because we work for others
and not for ourselves.
GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL
When the George Washington Memorial was planned the idea,
as we remember it, was to erect a temple for Washington Alexandria
Lodge and a safe place for the keeping of the Masonic records and
mementoes of Washington's Masonic activities. The cost was set at
$100,000. In 1916 this was advanced to $500·, 000: in 1920 to $1,000,000; in 1922 to $1,500,000, and as times goes on the figures have increased until now it has reached nearly $4,000,000, without providing
for an Endowment Fund to maintain it. Various Grand Lodges
have taken a different viewpoint as to their responsibility. Some
formally joined the Association established to erect the Memorial,
and as members have constantly contributed the $1.00 per member
from the inception of the plan. Others, while not joining the Association. have paid their pro-rata along the original plan. Some have
made voluntary contributions of various amounts, without becoming
members of the Association or adopting any fixed policy. One Jurisdiction felt itself obligated to pay one for the actual number of members at the time the project was launched.

63

One of the redeeming features of this activity is the fact that
those having it in charge have limited their expenditures only to the
money actually collected. The present decrease in new members,
growing financial burdens that must and are being assumed by various Jurlsdictions, and the attitude of some ·o f the Grand Lodges who
are not members of the Association and believe they have voluntarily
paid all they should will, we believe, require considerable time and
ability to raise the balance to complete the building now set at a
total cor.t of $4,000,000. This figure we understand does not include
a maintainance fund which is suggested must be a million dollars or
more.
District of Columbia (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Brother Wright addressed
the Gfand Lodge on the Washington Memorial, giving all .that is
desir~d. The politicians visiting Washington usually drop a tear on
the grave of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington, but Masons go a few
miles beyond and pay homage to the known soldier.
Illinois (1929) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): This memorial to
George Washington which is being erected at Alexandria, Virginia,
is a very great piece of work. It was supposed at the outset
that it would cost a comparatively moderate sum, but the representatives of many states far distant from Virginia would insist
upon something more elaborate and thus constantly the plans became
enlarged and the cost i:nultiplied. It was supposed, however, that
one dollar per capita from all the Masons of the United States,
which would be approximately $3,000,000, would be sufficient to complete the memorial. Efforts were made in this S·tate to raise that
amount of money, but thus far Illinois has raised only about fifty per
cent of its per capita. A number of states have contributed more than
two hundred per cent. While many of us may have the feeling that
this memorial is being made more expensive than need be, it has
nevertheless grown to a point where it is beyond our power to control it. The Masonic Lodge of which George Washington was Master
was located at Alexandria, Virginia. This memorial is being erected
on a hill in the suburbs of that city. People from all over the world
are visiting it by the thousands and the credit of Masonry in the
United States is pledged to its successful completion. It is hoped
that in some way this Grand Lodge will find a means whereby Illinois
may contribute to this great enterprise at least its one dollar per
capita on its membership, either by direct contribution of some

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

amount from the Grand Lodge treasury or by solicitation among our
Brethren throughout the state. Masonry in the United States would
be discredited if this great enterprise were suffered to fail.
Kansas (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The writer takes exception to the last clause in the Grand Master's address under the head
of "George Washington Masonic National Memorial" which reads:
"The Masons of the United States have undertaken the erection
of this memorial-they must complete it."
To those of us who are familiar with the organization from its
inception we cannot allow a statement of this kind to go unchallenged, as the Masons of the United States were not a part of the
few who assembled in Washington some years ago and took it upon
themselves to carry forward this work. They were self-constituted
and "the Masons of the United States" should not be blamed for the
mistakes made, and we all admit there were many of them.
Maryland (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Bro. MacEwing, of
Manitoba, has a forceful foreword to his review in which he strongly
condemns penalizing Lodges for not contributing for donations to
undertakings outside of their own Grand Jurisdiction and quotes several which are threatening the suspension of the charters of the constituent Lodges unless they pay their assessments. He also quotes in
connection with the raising of funds for the George Washington
Memorial that President Watres in a talk to the assembled Grand
Masters in a conference, said:
"Let me urge· upon you · the importance when you get home of
having your respective Grand Lodges take such action as will provide that every man who comes into Freemasonry shall have the
privilege of paying $1 with his initiation fee. This is important, not
only for the money's sake, but those who come into Masonry are entitled to this privilege."
If this be the me.thods pursued, viz.: a dictation to the Grand
Masters of the various Grand Lodges to inaugurate a system which
in effect would be a collection agency then the fears expressed that
such meetings or conferences may threaten the establishment of a
General Grand Lodge are not so baseless as many would have us
think although we believe that the realization of such a General
Grand Lodge (for the United States) could not be effected.

65

Mexico (1929):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We do not think that
George Washington as a M. M. would approve of such gigantic expenses and memorials. He would have approved spending the money
or investing it so as to provide funds, for doing charitable Masonic
work. What interest does each Grand Lodge hold in this property
and memorial? What vote have they in selecting proper officials and
employees to take care of the memorial? The members of the Fraternity are being assessed in many Jurisdictions. Some cannot pay so
they are being suspended if large, and increasing, numbers. Grand
Lodges should not commence assessing members for something that
does not belong to their Jurisdiction. It may lead to serious difficulties in the future and injure the growth of Freemasonry.
Some small Lodges, in interior points of Jurisdictions, are struggling to keep alive. They haven't members enough to pay expenses
and per capita tax. When they do not pay their charters are lifted.
It's much better to donate money to these Lodges to carry on the
noble work of Freemasonry than to spend millions on memorials
which are not needed by the Fraternity, and which the majority of
the members will never see. A referendum should be held by the
individual members of each Jurisdiction to ascertain whether or not
the M. M. are in · favor of the idea and the assessments for building
the memorial.
Texas (1929):

(Grand Master) : At the time the original contract for the George
Washington Memorial was let we had a few over a hundred thousand
Masons in Texas. The ;question has been raised in Texas as to what
our moral obligations were with reference to this fund. The fact that
we had a representative in the person of Brother Past Grand Master
Randell · on the board of directors of the George Washington Memorial Association and the fact that they were depending upon the
$1 per member to be paid, which we had tentatively promised them,
has caused many of us to feel that we are at least morally obligated
for the amount of $1 per member, that they based their contract on
at the time of making same. We, at least, acquiesced in this and
knowingly allowed and permitted this association to make its contract on the faith of our paying this amount of money. The question
has arisen as to whether this Gt-and Jurisdiction owes the George
Washington Memorial Association $1 per member for the number of
members that we now have or for the number of members that we
had at the time of the letting of the original contract. There would
be some $35,000 difference in the estimates. If we estimate from the

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

time of the letting of the original contract we would owe the association approximately $45,000. If we. estimate according to the membership we now have, we would owe it some $80,000.
While in Washington last winter, I took the matter up with
Colonel Watres and Past Grand Master Burt Lee of Missouri and we
discussed this phase of the matter carefully and I later received a
letter from Colonel Watres, chairman of the George Washington'
Memorial Association, which reads in part as follows:
''I sincerely trust ... that you may confer with Brother Randell ·
'with the end · in view of carrying out the plan which you outlined as
to the $45,000. It will be most gratifying if the plan you outlined can
be carried out."
This, in substance, sets forth the understanding that I had with
the association at the time of my conference with the two Brethren
named above. I felt that the time of the Jetting of the original contract set the membership quota and so suggested, and the above
letter confirms this view from the association. Therefore, I am recommending that we get this matter out of the way and that we meet
our obligations in the matter regardless of whatever. we may think
about the project personally, because Texas Masonry can ill afford
·t o permit itself to fail to carry ·out any moral or legal obligation and
I am suggesting that the amount of $45,000 be paid to the George
Washington Memorial Association as follows: $15,000 this year and
$15,000 yearly hereafter out of the General Fund of the Grand Lodge
and that it be understood by this Grand Jurisdiction and by the association that Texas has fully and completely met all of its obligations
in the matter of the George Washington Memorial Fund when this
money has been paid.

of Grand Master Woodbury's suggestion might be had. It may very'
well be that. Colorado first p:esented the idea of a memorial-apart
from th~ bu~ial place of Washmgton-such as is now being erected on
Shooters Hill. The present writer does not have access to the early
volumes of Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of New Hampshire so
as to ascertain exactly what was proposed by the Granite s~ate
Brethren. From references to the New Hampshire communications
found in the Proceedings of other Grand Lodges (Proceedings of
Main, a half-dozen references or more) it appears that the thought
was .to build a "Masonic monument at Mount Vernon over the
remams of our late distinguished Brother, George Washington."
The Maine Proceedings referred to above, shows that as early
at least as July 8, 1824, the matter of erecting a monument at the
grave of W~shington was being considered ( Proceedings, Grand
~o?ge of .Mame, 1824, p. 107) . It is barely possible that Lafayette's
v1s1t to this country at that time, may have had something to do with
the suggestion of a Masonic monument.
Washington (1929):

. (Chairman Correspondence Committee): Some excellent pictures

o~ the unfinished ?eorge Washington Memorial are presented, which

gives one a good idea of what is being done in that stupendous effort
fir.st ~o honor Brother Washington, and second to advertise our adm1rat10n for the man, and third to capitalize the fact that he was a
Mason.
W ~ .an no~ help but wonder if this is just a passi~g phase of
Masonic en thusiasm, or if . the idea of advertising the institution of
Masonry is to continue to wield an important influence over the
Grand Lodges. We yield to no one in our reverence for the great
and good, but fear that such extreme efforts along this line will
eventually have a wrong influence over the minds of our Brethren.
The wedge has entered, and we are seeing yet other grandiose
schemes, good in and of themselves, being proposed, but which will
eventually take yet other millions for their accomplishment, and further burden the Craft.

Utah (1930):
(Chairinan Correspondence Committee): New Hampshire appears
to have a hog-tied claim on the original idea of a Washington Memorial-going back to a time "to which the memory of a man (now
°Jiving) runneth not to the contrary"-and has lead the procession
in the matter of paying its qu'o ta for. the present memorial, now in
excess of $2 per member. The Grand Master reported that all of the
Lodges had paid their assessments for the year just closed.

•

•

•

•

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Colorado claims credit for
originating the idea of a Masonic memorial to Washington. We are
und~r the impression that this has been preempted by New Hampshire. We regret that our file of proceedings of the Grand Lodge of
Colorado does not include that for 1878, so that the exact wording

67

Washington (1930):

•

(Grand Master) : The report of the Washington Memorial shows
that .the~e has been collected to date of the report $2,964,852.44 and
that 1t .w1.ll be necessary to collect an additional $1,500,000 to complete
the bu1ldmg and $61,000 to complete the approaches. This "does not
include" "other work to be done about the grounds, as in the development of the steps and the landscaping. It does not include the
endowment of the Temple."

68

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The immensity of the undertaking can readily be seen from a
reading of the figures above quoted and the end is not in sight, for
the endowing of such an institution re·quires a vast amount of money.
With the constantly increasing demands on the Lodges and the
Grand Lodge for the support of the Masonic Home and for charity it
seems wise to me for the Grand Lodge to move slowly in any additional gifts for this purpose.
Western Australia (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Our United States
Brethren are laboring strenuously to insure that the George Washington National Memorial will be ready for opening on Washington's
birthday in 1932, the date assigned. The wisdom may be questioned
of proposing a scheme to cost some £20,000, and afterwards developing it into one to cost fifty times that amount. But the point today
is not a question of wisdom. It is that the honor of Freemasonry in
the United States has been pledged by the Jurisdiction to the more
costly scheme, and indirectly such a pledge affects the Craft the world
over in the eyes of those outside our pale. The Brethren in the
U ni;ed States recognize this, and deserve commendation for their
determination to see the work through.
PROHIBITION
This occupies a place in the Proceedings of a number of the
different Jurisdictions, due mainly to the failure of Lodges to
discipline their members for violation of the law.
As Masons we are enjoined to obey the moral and civil law,
and this must be the attitude of the Craft towards the 18th Amendment and all laws passed in connection therewith.
Alabama (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): I do not agree with the
Chairman Correspondence Committee of Vermont in his expressed
opinion of the Eighteenth Amendment and I think his report would
have been better if he had left that part out. I imagine that my
opinion will have about as much weight with him as his has with
me and in that case we are both wasting space for which our respective Grand Lodges pay. I at least will not assist his "Heresy"
by giving it publicity.
Alberta (1929):
(Grand Master): In spite of reiterated expressions of disapproval
of the practice, I found one Lodge conducting a raffle and peremptorily ordered cessation of the sale of the tickets. I am not called

69

up?n to rule on the ethics of games of chance, but suffice it to say,
they are contrary to the Criminal Code of the Dominion of Canada
and entirely foreign to the spirit of our Fraternity whi~h in all things
undertakes support of common law in word and spirit.
Canada (1929):
I

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A Brother who was
cashier of a bank in Missouri was charged with receiving a deposit
from a Brother while the bank was in a failing condition, which was
well known to the accused. He was expelled. This is something new
in Masonic moral turpitude, and "wronging a Brother."
Several judgments of not guilty were changed by the Committee
on Appeals and the accused was found guilty. They seem to have
more backbone-or i's it severity-than the Lodges.
Indiana (1930):
(Grand Master) : I was invited to a meeting of the committee appointed by the Governor of the tsate to consider crimes and the
enforcement of the law. While I was present at this meeting I was
called upon to make some remarks and I assured the committee that
Masonry was in · sympathy with their efforts. At that time I called
their attention to our law in regard to the matter under consideration, which is as follows:
"Whatever is a breach of good morals, contrary to the precepts
of the Holy Scriptures or a violation of the laws of the State or of
the United States is an offense against the principles of Masonry
and must be promptly dealt with."
This committee was very much pleased to learn that we had a
law like this. I find there are a few Masons who evidently do not
know of this law or have forgotten it.
New Jersey (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master
(Colorado, 1929) had few decisions to make, but in one he was asked
by the Master of a Lodge for a ruling on the Master's action in refusing Masonic burial of a member of a Lodge under another Jurisdiction, who had just prior to his death been engaged in bootlegging
and gambling and the Grand Master ruled that the burial of a Mason
from another Lodge might be refused on evidence that the deceased
Brother was notoriously un-Masonic in his conduct. We think the
last few words were the gist of the whole matter, but we have never
heard of any decision before on this particular question. Personally
we are glad to see that the Grand Master upheld the Master.

70

REPORT QN CORRE~PONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Utah (1930):
. .· · ( Ch~irman Cor,respondence Co'm~ittee) : One Lodge, the Grand
M~ster of Idaho reported, had a member on its roster who had bee11
fQu~d guilty of ·violating the prohibition law and sentenced to serve
~ term in prison and tha.t the Lodge had taken no action relative
thereto. He contented. himself with ascertaining the facts and referring these to Grand Lodge.. Whatever may be an individual's
opinion concerning this, or any other law, it would seem as though
soi:nething definite should be done. The effects of such neglect of
manifest duty cannot be confined to the Lodge directly concerned.
A Constituent Lodge owes something to the Fraternity at large.

• • •

•

One ruling by the Grand Master would hardly pass the Jµrisprudence Committee in Utah. In effect, but indirectly, he appeared
to hold that serving a term, or part of a term in the penitentiary was
not sufficient grounds for a rejection of the petition of an applicant.
Masonry can hardly afford to condone disregard of laws. Another
decis'ion-under May 30th-was right in our opinion, but not enough
of .it. This concerns a Mason-Lodge not given-who had been convicted in Mississippi Court on a charge of unlawful possession and
was then serving a sentence of from two to three years at hard labor
on the county roads. The Master, reporting the case, stated that the
offending member was a "member of the Shrine" I What has such
membership to do with the case? The Master urged that the Masons
should do something, out of respect to the offender's father and in
keeping with the teachings of Masonry. There is nothing in the teaching of Masonry known to us that requires, or suggests, that Masons
should put forth ·"some effort," or any effort to relieve a convicted
law-breaker of the fruits of his deliberate wrong doing. It is our understanding that Masons should be law-abiding citizens. We do not
find in the Grand Master's ruling anything concerning a Masonic
trial and expulsion of the young man. Is this young man retained
in good standing by his Lodge, while doing time on the highways,
as a convict?· This was only one of several cases in which members
of the Craft had been convicted of crime and sentenced to jail or to
the penitentiary, and friends stated or implied by their statements
that Masons, as such "ought to do something!" We think something
should be done-the rosters of the Lodges should be purged of such
material.
Vermont (1929):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): From the "Foreword" of
the Missouri Correspondence Committee we quote a paragraph which
was written months before the last general election :
"The question of prohibition has been treated by several Grand
Masters, all exhorting their members to .o bey the law in letter and

71

in spmt. This is, of course, a Masonic requirement. The Grand
Master of Arizona· expr~ss~s a sane attitude toward the question.
But we ca.nnot agree with those who feel that disagreement with
the. l~w as interpreted by Congress in the Volstead Act is even quasi~
sedition. We sincerely believe that reason will some time prevail
a~d Mr. Vo~stead and his ilk will be relegated to the nation's attic
with other discarded furniture."
Well, the cat did not jump that way. It is said that some years
ago one of o~r warships was in a Japanese harbor; every tin;ie the.
band played Nobody Knows How Dry I Am" the Japanese -~to.od
up .and u?cover.ed. They thought it was our national hymn·. If our
reviewer is hopmg for the return of "the good old times," when he
can .place. ?ne foot on the rail and blow off the foam; he may grow
old m waiting.
'

• • • •

We r~se also to express our personal disapproval of the propa~
ganda .which ~ould have Masonry undertake the ge11eral· reformatio~
of s?c1ety, First let each Brother attend to his own purification.
Having extracted th.e beam from his own eye, he will see clearly
to free others of their motes.
Washington (1930):

(Grand Master) : More than ever, the experience of the year has

confi~med me in the convktion that if Masonic membership is to
remain. a hallmark of real character, the laxity into which we have
fallen m regard to discipline of our members who transgress the
moral. and Masonic law must be corrected. Our neglect or forbearance is. ~ften cloaked under the guise of toleration and charity, but
~he rec1p1ent of our consideration is rarely grateful and we often do
irreparable harm to ourselves.
T.here is s?me ex~use if we make mistlkes and permit unworthy
material to gam admission to our Lodges, but no reasonable argument can be advanced for failure to purge the institution of those
who are no longer of good repute before the world.
Wisconsin (1930):

(C~a!rman Correspondence Committee): The world has never yet

~ot a VIS!on of a great moral reform that in time it has not achieved

it, supplemented by public opinion. The Inquisition as a punishment
~or heresy. has gone, legalized lotteries have ceased to exist; burnings for witchcraft are matters .of history only; duelling as a means
of sa.ti~fying one's sense of honor is now unk;nown; slavery has
been wiped off the earth, and the last and most crying evil traffic
in alcoholic drinks, is writhing in its death agonies. The mor~l sense
of ?umanity has never yet retrograded in the whole history of civilization.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

READING-INTERESTING

RITUAL

The attention of' those who are interested, and have access to the
Prnceedin,gs of the various Grand Lodges, is called to the following
Orations, Papers and Reports from the Proceedings reviewed. They
are entertaining, worthy of examination and valuable for reference.

A Canadian Past Master, after visiting Lodges in many sections
of the United States, summarizes the place ritualism assumes in
our organization, as follows: "First-Ritualists have been placed
upon a pedestal and the social features of Freemasonry almost
eliminated. Second-The charity lecture to candidates has been
nullified, the benevolence of The Craft commercialized and dispensed by bureaus. Third-Large Lodges and large classes 'a re a
menace to the existence of Freemasonry, a departure from the
original plan. Fourth-Lodges are rapidly becoming 'Degree Mills,'
grinding out Masons with merely a superficial knowledge of the
ceremonies. What _so_rt_ .of Masonic ideals can 'Degree Mills' produce?" We believe that ritualism is largely productive of nonattendance. Some tim-e ago this Jurisdiction reduced the lecture of
the First Degree. It does not appear that it worked any great
hardship.
A thorough study of our present ritual with a view of amending
it so as to conform to the present condition of living, we believe
would be worth while. One Grand Master stated it in the following language: "Antiquated ceremonies and usual repetitions are
working great injury to the cause of Freemasonry."

72

Title-

Jurisiliction-Year Page

80
Masonic Ritual, Spirit and Substance .......... Alabama (19'29)
115
Working Tools of a Master Mason .............. Alberta (1930)
12
Corner Stones .................................................... Arizona (1930)
107
Corner Stone-The .......................................... Arkansas (1929)
216
What Freemasonry Means to Me ................ Florida (1930)
78
Are We Masons? .............................................. Illinois ( 1930)
4
The Latest Fashion in Atheism .................... Iowa (1929)
208
The Soul That Saunters .................................. Jowa (1929)
717
Annual Oration ....... ;..........•............................. Kansas (1930)
733
Masonry and What It Means ........................ Kansas (1930)
131
Annual Oration ................................................ Louisiana (1930)
375
Louisiana Relief Lodge-History of... ......... Louisiana (1930)
29
Grand Lecturer's Address .............................. Mexico (1929)
34
Annual Oration ................................................ Minnesota (1930)
78
Masonry as an Institution .............................. N ebraska (1929)
385
The Threefold Mission of Masonry .............. Nebraska (1930)
400
The Word ......................... ~ ................................ Nebraska (1930•)
410
Retrospect ·······························:··························Nebraska (1930)
5
Symbolisms of the Corner Stone .................. Nevada (1929)
45
Golden Age of Masonry in Nevada .............. Nevada (1929~
135
Report of the Overseas Mission .................... New York (1930)
How the Grand Lodge of Scotland Was
Formed .......................................,................ New York (1930)
182
Mission of Masonry ........ ~ ...........:•.................... N orth Carolina (1930)
61
Masonic History of North Dakota ................ North Dakota (1929)
52
Masonry in Modern Civilization .................. Oregon (1929)
24
Tribute to the Flag.......................................... Oregon (1929)
208
G~orge Washington's Visit to G. L. of Pa.... Pennsylvania (1929)
162
Annual Oration ................................................ Philippine Islands(l930) 44
A Masonic Crusade ................. :........................ Sasketchewan (1929)
99
Masonic Education and Research .................. Saskatchewan (1929)
124
Ancient Mysteries, Essenes, etc ....................Saskatchewan (1930)
130
Look to the East...........................•.................... Saskatchewan (1930)
86
Address of W elcome ........................................Washington ( 1929)
9
Annual Oration ................................................ Washington (1929)
83
Will Freemasonry Survive? ............................ Wisconsin ( 1930)
44

73

Alberta (1929):
(Grand Master): I ruled, in the case of an elderly brother of
Scandinavian origin who could not memorize the series of questions
and answers required by the York working, that a "satisfactory
examination as to his proficiency" would be the satisfaction of his
examiners that he could identify himself as a Mason for admission
to a strange Lodge.
Repeated complaints that the ritual of the York working is
topheavy have been received at frequently recurring intervals. · Complaints regarding the length of the opening and closing ceremonies
in the Canadian ritual are likewise common. I~ my own opinion the
York ritual contains much extraneous matter which could be very ·
well demonstrated on set occasions during the year or dropped altogether, and so - eliminated from the exemplification of the degrees
themselves.
Long-drawn-out ceremonies find "little favor in this swift moving
age, and where the work can be readily reduced to the essentials .
required by time-honored exemplification I believe this should be
done.

''

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Arizona (1930):
(Grand Master) : I am not a fanatical ritualist as I ' attempted to
make clear on various occasions during my official visitations. Of
course, I believe that a reasonable degree of word and action accuracy
must be insisted upon, and the more nearly letter perfect the work
may be, if intelligently and. effectively rendered, the better. But, as
between practically letter perfect ritualistic work, listlessly and colorlessly given, and work slightly less accurate in its rigid adherence
to the absolute text, but earnestly arid impressively delivered, I admit
decided preferei:ice for the latter.

general exodus at the conclusion of the first section of lhe degreeS.
My personal idea is that the intent of the laws requiring explanatory
lectures is fully complied w ith when the lecturer covers his subject,
regardless of the form of language used by him. · ,
I find, further, that the Craft is always more interested in hearink something new than in listening to a repetition.

a

Florida (1929):
. (Grand Master) : The first class of tools or implements are what
might be termed the tools of preparation which we use to prepare the
materials to fit them for the builder's use. The second class of tools
are what might be termed testing tools by which we try and test the
quality of the work upon which the preparation tools have been used.
Th~ third class of tools are the construction tools or the tools which
are used in placing the materials which have been shaped, tested
and tried, in the super-structure of the temple. Unless we have
been able to correctly read and interpret the designs which have
been on our · trestle boaJ;"d, much of the material will be so crudely
pre.p ared that it may not pass the inspection of the Master's square.

Georgia (1930):
(Grand Master): The official Masonic code of the Grand Lodge
of Georgia requires that some form of lecture be given in each of
the symbolic degrees. Substantially the same lectures as are printed
in Simon's Monitor are printed in our code, but our laws do not
require that these lectures be given either in full or in part, but leave
to the option of the Master the privilege of substituting other appropriate lectures.
During the twelve years in which I have engaged in instructing
our Lodges ·in the ritualistic work, I have made it a practice to
recommend that all ·officers prepare their own lectures instead of
in following verbatim the regular lectures printed in the code. My
idea is to encourage original research and to provide instruction and
entertainment for the class as well as to make some departure from
constant, monotonous repetition of the same old lecture with which
all are familiar.
I nave found that this procedure has resulted in bringing about
better attendance in our Lodges and has already served very effettively to discontinue the practice o·f which you. complain, that is, a

76

Montana (1929):
(Grand Secretary) : An interesting item is the result of a questionnaire that the Grand Secretary of Montana sent to all the Grand
Lod.g es in fraternal relations with Montana in regard to grouping
of candidates for initiation.
·
Replies were received from fifty-one, of which forty-four were
American Grand Lodges and seven foreign, which tabulate as follows:
American Grand Lodges
Not
AUowing
Grouping
Grouping

First Degree, 1st Sec...............
Thereafter --------··------------'--Second Degree, 1st Sec...........
Thereafter ---------------..--------Third Degree, !st Sec.........:.....
Second Sec. -------·-···--·--------Thereafter --------------------·-----

11
34
20
34
20
2
36

33
10

24
10

24
42
8

AU Grand Lodge'
Not
AlloWing
Grouping

·Allowing
Grouping

15
41
25
. 39
25
3
43

,,

36
10
26
IZ
26
48
8

Of the Grand Lodges allowing grouping of candidates twentyone limit the number to five, one limits the number t'o three and one
limits the number to seven.
. Oklahoma limits the number to three in the Middle Chamber.
The American Grand Lodges allowing grouping in the · first
section of the First Degree are:
Connecticut
New York
District of Columbia
North Carolina
Florida
Nor th Dakota
Georgia
South Carolina ·
Kentucky
Vermont
Minnesota
The foreign (Canadian) Grand Lodges allowing grouping in the
first section of the First D egree are British Columbia, Manitoba,
Nova Scotia and Saskatchewan.
The Grand Lodges allowing grouping in the second section of
the Third Degree are British Columbia, Connecticut and Kentucky.

77

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC!!:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New Jersey (1928):
(Chairman Corrcspo11de11cc Committee): When a man is made a
Mason, he receives a lambskin or white leather apron. If he becomes
an officer, he may have a blue border. If he becomes a Past Master,
he has a purple border. ·If he becomes a Grand Officer, he has various decorations, and if he joins the higher bodies he is permitted •to
wear other regalia, but when he dies and has a Masonic funeral, the
Master of his Lodge places a white apron on his coffin and he is
right back where he started. It is well to be humble.

their own expense if they could, and so chose. We are told that
for this reason 138 Lodges were represented by their Senior Wardens in the absence of Masters. The Grand Master thinks something
should be done, and the Jurisprudence Committee recommends that
the Past Master Degree be no longer prerequisite, which is duly
enacted.

76

North Carolina (1930):
(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): An edict was issued, forbidding the presentation of a lambskin apron to a candidate until
after he had received the Master's Degree. This was done because
of troubles created through its presentation in the Entered Apprentice Degree. We have sat ·back in our chair for a while, trying to
think of what trouble could be started in this way. We just can':
think of a thing.
North Carolina (1929):
(Chairman C orrespo11dence Committee) : We note that thev are not ·
going to let any Mason get the Royal Arch or Scotfrh Rite work
until he has passed an examination on the Third Degree. While we
think all of us ought to know the Third Degree ritual, yet we believe
that there is really something higher than rote memory. It is, for
instance 1 wor.t h much more for the average Mason to know Street's
book on the three degrees than to know the obligation of the Third
Degree letter-perfect. It is worth more to a mature Mason to know
Pciund;s "Philosophy of Masonry" than to be able to pass the catechisms of all degrees without flaw. While aware of the fact that
some do not agree with us, we are ready to maintain the above
theses against all disputants.
North Carolina (1930):
( C hairma11 C orrespo11dence Committee) : Nebraska is one of the

states in which the Degree of Past Master has been a prerequisite
to installation as Master of a Lodge. This degree can be conferred
only in a Lodge in the presence of the Grand Custodian or a deputy,
whose expenses for the purpose the L odge would have to pay; or
in Grand Lodge sessions. The obvious result has been that many
Lodges sent their Senior Wardens to attend the Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge, while the Masters were left to go at

Nova Scotia (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Somewhat of an interesting subject came before the Grand Master · of Oregon in the form
of the question, "When is a ·m an a Mason?" In the U nited Grand
Lodge of England, if we remember correctly, a candidate is recognized as a Mason when he takes his first or Entered Apprentice
Degree. In Oregon, however, it appears that not only must the
candidate take all the three degrees, but after that must pass an
examination on the candidate's third lecture before he is a Mason.
In justice to Grand Master Eakin it should be noted he did not
altogether agree with the above, but felt that, even against his own
wishes and contrary to his honest opinion, he considered himself
bound by previous decisions of Grand Lodge. In our humble opinion
no Grand Master is bound by previous decisions if he is honestly
of opinion they were wrong. It strikes us that the proper course
for a Grand Master, under such circumstances, to take is to give
his ruling or decision and the grounds upon which it is based, inform
Grand Lodge of contrar.y decisions and then let that Grand Body
decide what is right and which is wrong.
Utah (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Another recommendation
was one that provided for two standing committees, "one for each
rite, York and Canadian, to abridge or rearrange the present ritual
so as to permit of shorter forms when necessary and desirable." He
would also make it possible for any member of a Lodge to give all
or any part of the work, save only the obligation. The Grand Lodge
of Utah has a committee considering the matter of shortening the
ritual; and the present writer is in favor of a plan which would permit
well-posted Brethren, other than the first three officers, to do the
work of the first two degrees at least. This was allowed here at
one time, and it certainly added to the attendance at Lodge meetings,
because the younger members could do something; they could g o
ahead and fit themselves to take a part, and this of itself, helped
to develop an interest in the Lodge and to bring them to meetings,
till the habit was formed.·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Washington (1929):
(Grand Master): At the December meeting of the Board of Custodians the matter of "degree teams" of two types was under discussion.
The first type is not under the direction of any constituted Lodge,
but seeks engagements in any Lodge that will invite them. It was
the expressed opinion that such teams served no good purpose and
prostituted our ritualistic ceremony, which is the property and prerogative of constituted Lodges, to the purposes of other organizations.
The second type of "team" is composed of officers and members
of a constituted Lodge; but also seeks engagements to fill the stations
and places of other Lodges. This type does serve some good purpose,
as they are usually accompanied on their engagements by members
of the Lodge, and the exchanges of fraternal visits which result are
to be commended. Only where the desire for individual or collective
notoriety is the impelling motive is this type of "team" greatly to
be condemned. Nevertheless, "team" is not a Masonic term, and the
practice is largely aped from other organizations. It would be an
interesting experiment to see an exchange of fraternal visits between
Lodges when the officers of the host Lodge retained their stations
and places and conferred work themselves.

of the Correspondence Co~mittee of Vermont stated: "Many Secretarys, being human, are careless, but the percentage of this type
is evidently in the minority."
One of the Jurisdictions considered _a resolution to allow the
Secretary to participate in the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, the
same as the other elective officers and Past Masters, but the proposition failed of approval. While this thought was drastic departure
from custom, still the idea is being developed in some Jurisdictions
by combining the Secretaries in some organization so that their
experience and ideas may be available to each other and themselves.

78

Western Australia (1929):
(Chairman Correspo,ndence Committe.e): Virginia is one of those
jurisdictions which require that before a Brother can be installed
as Master or Warden, he must have received the Degree of Past
Master. This degree is a very old one; it is to be found set out
in old rituals, spurious and genuine, of the early days of last century~
but outside America, and especially in British countries, is not conferred. British and Australian Masonry adopts what does seem to
be the more logical practice of the Installed Master's Degree, conferred upon the Worshipful Master-elect, on the night of his installation into the chair, and performed only by a Board of Installed
Masters, of whom there are often more than 100 present, constituting
the board. The ceremony is one of the most impressive and dignified
in Masonry, and vastly superior to that of the Past Master's Degree.
SECRETARIES
The success or failure of a Lodge in a large measure depends
upon the efficiency of the Secretary. He generally continues from
year to year, while the Master emerges from the ranks only for a
brief time. This Secretary of the Lodge not only has a great
responsibility but also acts as a "shock absorber." As Chairman

79

Idaho (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): There is no more effective
way to raise the standard of your Lodge work than by securing the
best possible secretary and then retaining him as long as he will
serve. For several years we have advised Lodges to select their secretaries from among their Past Masters or other experienced members, and we are gratified to observe that they are doing so, and
to be able to report a better condition is being reflected because of it.
Montana (1929):
(Chairman Correspondettce Committee): We thoroughly agree with
one of the reviewer's ideas to the effect that in many Lodges secretaries of long standing become petty tyrants of the Lodges; they
want to dictate everything; frequently will delay and not carry out
orders which seem to be against their wishes; are in a hurry to get
through with the work as speedily as possible; seem to forget that
they are the only paid officers of the Lodge, and not the dictators.
As against these it is refreshing to note occasionally secretaries who
are obliging and painstaking; l!nobstrusive in their views and cheerfully bowing to the will of the Lodge; such secretaries are jewels
and command the love and affection of the Brethren; we happen
to know· both kinds, and the latter appeal to us as the real men and
Masons.
(Grand Master) : During the past year steps have been taken looking to the organization of the Montana Masonic Secretaries' Association, which will include in its membership the secretaries of the
Masonic Lodges of Montana. This move has the sanction of your ·
Grand Master. Such an Association can only result in great good, not
only to the secretaries of our Lodges, but to the Lodges themselves
and the Masonry of Montana, by fostering among the members a
higher appreciation of their duties, promoting the friendly and broth-

80

81

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

erly feeling already existing among them, harmonizing any misunderstandings that may exist among them, and devising the best means
of handling the work of their offices. We should encourage the secretaries in their work for their Lodges, and aid them in every way
possible. In most of our Lodges they undertake their duties largely
as a labor of love. If we can lighten the load for them in any way,
or brigliten· their labors by encouragement, advice and assistance,
let us do o'u r bit. They ask nothing of this Grand Lodge. Let us
give· them our moral support and wish them every success.

of this Grand Lodge and that they organize themselves into a Secretaries' Association o·r. Guild, so that they may be better qualified to
properly perform and conduct the business of their office. In this
Association or Guild, they can discuss the difficult problems with
which they have to deal, exchange ideas and devise new methods;
in so doing, they will become better secretaries and be more helpful
to our Lodges.

North Carolina (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The state of Maine is a
pioneer in a new movement which will probably do much good. We
refer to the organization of an Association of the Secretaries of
Masonic Lodges. The Grand Master thinks that this will result in
raising the general standard of efficiency among the secretaries, and
concludes with the remark that "a good secretary is the backbone
of the Lodge, even if the Master is nothing but a wishbone," which
is more true than it ought to be.
South Carolina (1930):
The following resolution was presented to the Grand Lodge:
"At the regular meeting of the Secretaries' Guild held this date
in discussing the attendance a motion was offered and carried that
a committee be appointed to ask the Grand Lodge to pay the expenses of the secretaries of the Lodges to the meetings of the Secretaries' Guild in addition to that of the Master of the Lodge.
Believing as we do that the secretary, and Masonry at large will be
materially benefited by attending the sessions of the Grand Lodge
and the Secretaries' Guild, we, the Committee, respectfully ask that
this Grand Body give this resolution your careful attention."
On motion it was referred to a special committee to report at
the ·n ext annual communication of the Grand Lodge.
South Dakota (1929):
(Grand Master): · We have many fine Secretaries who gladly give
the time and attention necessary to transact the business of the office.
I am .p.leased to report that their number increases with each passing year. The secretary should be selected from the most efficient
and best qualified of the Brothers. He can do more to keep the Lodge
alive an·d active than any other officer.
Recognizing these facts, I recommend that the secretaries of
th e various Subordinate Lodges attend the Anmnl Communication

Vermont (1930):
(Chairman Corrcsf>ondencc C ommittcc) : Many Secretaries, being
human, are careless. But if the secretary were an angel from Heaven,
he could not save that 10 per cent nor could be in every case counteract carelessness on the part of the non-duescpaying member. That's
the third cause. which the Grand Master does not mention. Does it
involve only 10 per cent? We doubt it. Carelessness runs in the
human family. Why should the percentage of careless secretaries be
greater than the percentage of careless members? "Manana" in their
favorite covert. From that even the most painstaking secretary can't
smoke them out.
Western Australia (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : When the writer lived in
America, it was explained to him that a saying often used there"I'm from Missouri," was intended to indicate more than ordinary
acumen and ability. If one might judge from the report of the Committee on Chartered Lodges, there are .Lodge secretaries to whom
the saying does not apply, for curious information is supplied under
the caption "Errors and Omissions," these occurring in the returns
forwarded to Grand Lodge. A number of those ret urns are not signed
by the Master or the Secretary. From some the Lodge seal is
omitted. Ceremonies, deaths, suspensions, etc., are minus d!tes or
names-a regular big crop of them. Members' lists omit the names of
those financial or include the names of dead or suspended members.
In some instances the American passion for the lead pencil so often
exhibited by profanes, who write their cheq_ues with a black-lead one
(the writer has had •quite a number of them ) is evidenced by some
Lodge secretaries, who use the same implement for writing returns.
Names and so forth appear under wrong headings. If Brother A. B.
is reported dead in, say, the 1920 return, he is a resurrected one in
the 1927 document. Brothers John Brown and John Brown are
cousins, members of the same Lodge--one fin a ncial, the other in
arrears; all the Grand Secretary can gather from the return is that
John Brown is in good standing, and John Brown is not; but there's

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

nothing to show "t'other from which." A man applied for admission
to the Masonic Home, but the Grand Secretary's file showed he had
been expelled from his Lodge. Later the Lodge corrected this record
by saying it was a mistake of the secretary in reporting that the
Brother had been expelled. It is to be feared that in Misso~ri, as in
some other Jurisdictions, Lodges are not sufficiently caref,ul in selecting their secretaries from among the older, thoroughly experienced,
and capable members.
·

SUSPENSIONS
Suspensions for non-payment of dues have been responsible for
reducing the net gain in a number of the Grand Lodge Jurisdictions. While this may be due in part to present financial conditions, still we believe the· chief reason is that the Lodge has lost
its appeal to the Member.
We do not think as some Grand Masters charge, that suspensions are due to the failure of the Secretary to perform his duties
in so far as the collection of dues are concerned. If a member
refuses or neglects to pay his dues alter the usual Lodge procedure
is followed of rendering bills, notifying him of the result of the
failure to pay the same, and no reply is had, it is presumptive
evidence that the Brother is not enough interested to keep himself
in good standing. We hardly believe it is the province of a Secretary to constitute himself a Collection Agency where the ordinary
methods have proved futile.
Connecticut (1930):
(Chairman C orresponaence Committee) : A few reviewers argue
that a Brother dropped N. P. D ., who fails of reinstatement, should
have the money which he paid to restore his standing refunded. We
dissent. •The sum paid as a preliminary to petition for restoration is
simply rightful payment of a legal and moral debt incurred while his
standing remained unimpaired, and is the price he pays for becoming
a non-affiliate in renewed good standing. But to again become a
member of either his old l.,.odge or a nother requires further and separate. procedure.
There is a technical difference between suspension and striking
from the roll of membership. In Connecticut, the latter is the sole
penalty for non-payment of dues. Its only effect is to make the delinquent a non-affiliate, but his accrued debt impairs his standing as
such. According to our law, he must as a prerequisite t o petition for
reinstatement (which 'is r eally for r eaffiliation) pay the debt incurred
whil.e he was yet maintained in fult standing. As he had continually

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

83

the benefit of good standing, there is no logic in a refund. He must
then file a regular petition for affiliation, which must take the same
course as any other such petition. Should his petition fail .of a unanim ous ballot and so be rejected, he can claim a certificate of good
standing as 'a non-affiliate, which with us answers all purposes of a
demit. Payment of his debt restores his standing, ·but leaves him
, a non-affiliate, and free to affiliate with any Lodge which will accept
him by a clear ballot.
There is some merit in the contention that refusal to pay dues
by a member clearly able to pay constitutes a Masonic offense, punishable by indefinite suspension. In such cases, reinstatement becomes a different and much simplier matter.
·
Illinois (1929):
(Chairman Correspon4ence Committee): One subject which has
claimed the attention of grand masters during the past year has been
that of the · large number of suspensions for non-payment of dues,
also the number of dimits that are being asked for in the L odges
of the country. Some have looked upon this condition as one of
alarm while others have regarded it as a good thing and simply the
'elimination by the fraternity of many who came into the society during the grand rush of several years ago. Some Grand Masters have
sought the cause for suspensions and as most natural the secretary
gets charged up with a good deal of the trouble. It is claimed where
dues are collected promptly each year there is less liability of suspension, whereas if a Brother· is allowed to go four or five years he
finds the payment of accumulated dues burdensome and simply allows
the. matter to go by default. A good many men in asking for a dimit
very plainly state ·that they have lost interest. If they have lost
interest then it is in order to find out why and having done this it
is up to every Lodge to correct the cause. It is believe~ that every
Grand L odge should appoint a special committee to make a survey
of this matter of suspensions and dimissions and to ascertain if possible the causes which lead up to men dropping their Lodge membership. If the fault lies with the Masonic fraternity then efforts
should be found to adopt measures which will cause men to want to
retain their membership. This writer, however, holds to the opinion
that if a man wants to be suspended or desires to take a dimit that
no persuasion or coercion should be exercised in attempting to get
him to retain his membership. There is nothing that will destroy
the dignity of Masonry so much as t_o be begging a man to stay in
the society. Men who care nothing about the institution have no
business holding membership in it and the sooner the fraternity
eliminates this class of material t he better off it is going to be.

85

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRffiSPONDENCE

Iowa (1929):
(Grand Master): In this connection I wish to point out one source

few years, a vast amount of time and effort has been spent on
Masonic education. Masonry is more magnificen tly housed, and
perhaps more competently officered; but has it, or has it not, lost
some of that ardent zeal, that passionate fervor, that love for the
ancient traditions, for the mystical experiences of the Craft, that
·bound the members of a lodge together w ith a common enthusiasm.

84

of troub~e, and to urge all Lodges to be extremely careful in the matter o.f remstatement of Brothers who have been in suspension for any
considerable number of years and in the election to membership of
Br~thren wh~ have carried demits for a like period of time. By so
domg they will often escape the .burden of caring for someone who'
really has very little claim upon the Fraternity. Ofttimes such
Brethren have remained without the fold and contributed nothing to
the ca~se. of Masonry through many years of the best earning period
of their lives, and then as they begin to think of the evening of life
they want to regain their former standing, to feel that in case of misfortune assistance will be forthcoming, or when the sun goes down
for them they will be laid away with fraternal care. To a Brother
who helps to bear the burden through the heat of the day all will
~ost chee:fully render the assistance which is but justly his due when
time or misfortune brings him to the need of help from his Br~thren;
but the others, of whom I speak first. have little just claim upon us.
Nevada (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Bro. James M. Pearson,
Grand Master of Alabama, reported that Past Grand Master Oliver
D. Street, the .distinguis~ed author of "Symbolism of Freemasonry,"
had been appomted by him to revise and simplify Alabama's Masonic
Code of Laws. He noted with alarm the large number of suspensions
for non-payment of dues, around 3,000 for the year, and felt that a
great part of this loss was due to lack of interest on the part of the
Lodge secretaries. This is true, but the real cause for most of the
loss ~elt by many jurisdictions is dry and strictly formal meetings,
all alike, and all .cut from the s:ime pattern. Gh·e the non-working
members somethmg to do and something to think about in addition
to the regular routine work of business and degree-grinding meetings.

New Jersey (1929):
.
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Much Masonic activity
is reported for the year, although there were some suspensions.
The Grartd Master of New Mexico feels, as do many others that
this
due to an insecurely guarded outer door, and that man; suspensions are traceable to our negligence in the education of new
members, to help them appreciate the essential and vital things about
Masonry. Many Grand Masters seem to have this thought, and we
?ave been wondering if it is true. In its external aspects, Masonry
1s more prosperous than at any other time in its history. In the last

!s

North Carolina (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Grand Master Hanson
Peterson of Vermont reports that at some time before 1 :00 p. m. on
January 9, 1928, one Mrs. Daisy C. W hite bought a money order at
a California post office to pay the dues of her husban d, James G.
White. Brother White had been notified during the previous year
to pay dues or lie would be suspended; and since his dues were not
paid before the date mentioned in that notice, he w as suspended on
the date mentioned in the notice. Mrs. White mailed the money
order immediately after purchasing it, as shown by her affidavit and
the statement of the postmaster from whom it was bought. Between
2:45 and 3 :00 on the same day, January 9, 1928, Brother White died
while driving his automobile, a hundred or more m iles away from
the place at which his w ife bought the m oney order. Under the
Kentucky law, h e is restored automatically if member pays what he
owes to the Lodge within two years after suspension ; but the L odge,
having received notice of his death prior to the receipt of the money
order, refused to accept the payment of dues, and placed it upon
record that at his death he was not in good standing. The family of
the deceased appealed to the Grand Master for a decision. The
Grand Master decided that the placing of the remittance in the post
office, properly stamped and addressed, is a constructive delivery
thereof to the Secretary at that moment. The Grand Master therefore
rules that James G. White died in good standing and that the Lodge
must accept the money order in payment of his dues.
North Dakota (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The old problem of excessive suspensions continues to be a major one. It is a question
which will continue to vex until it is solved. One Grand Lodge repc.rts over six percent of its entire membership stricken from the
rolls for this cause in a single year and while this percentage is not
equalled anywhere else, yet without exception, every Grand Lodge
reports them as excessive. I t has been customary to explain it as
one of war's aftermaths but there m ust be a reason deeper than this.
The war has been over more than a decade and it is time we were
waking up, analyzing the situation and prescribing a remedy. It is

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

our conviction that breaking up the larger Lodges, maintaining a
more personal contact with the non-resident membersh'ip and giving
~ach of. the r~sident me~bers something to do would materially help
m keeping alive the desire to remain within the fold.
Ohio (1929):
(Grand Master) : I believe the remedy in a measure for the unde-

si~able condition regarding suspensions for non-payment of dues ahd
reinstatements could be largely remedied by using care in the selection of secretaries who are in sympathy with and interested in the
work. A good, live, efficient, affable secretary is one of the strongest
assets of any subordinate lodge, and it is the responsibility of its
membership to see that the duties of that office ~re discharged by
those who have the ability to carry on this most commendable work.
. Freemasonry, like all other institutions in this progressive age, is
m danger of experiencing the trend of modern times, due to the increase of our membership in the last few years. We have among us
men who are disappointed in Freemasonry. This, to some extent,
may be our fault. Too much haste in making members, not enough
care in selection, and too little attention paid to qualifications before
advancement are detrimental to the best interests of our Fraternity.
Our brethren have a tendency to forget that our Fraternity was
founded and built in the past by certain defined usages, custom~
regulations and landmarks, and principles and tenets whieh seem . t~
have been practiced more then than today.
.
We are training men of character and intelligence who of necessity must discharge their responsibilities in public and private affairs.
Our institution is judged by the outside world by the character and
actions of our individual members, so it is our responsibility to discharge our duties in keeping with the standards outlined in the tenets
of Masonry and perpetuate the ideals of the Craft in such a way as
will render service to the several communities in which we live and
reflect credit upon our institution."
Washington (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : It does ·not seem to have
occurred to many of the brethren that the making of "MEN" is the
g-reat business of Masonry, and that we are not an insurance organization. The gr eat number of those who are dropped or suspended
from our Lodges every year points to the fact that, either they never
were the right kind of material in the first place, or they have failed
to grasp the significance of our great institution. We are not
primarily a charitable institution. That is decidedly a side issue. The

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

87

preparation of the human mind for all the activities of citizenship,
and neighbo.rline:Ss, is the great work to which our souls have been
directed from time beyond compute. Why alter it now ?
Utah (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee ): The Grand · Master expressed the conviction "that our losses (by demits and suspension)
·are due to the wholly inadequate attention that is given to keeping
our membership interested in Freemasonry." As we see this matter,
it is a debatable question. Our own feeling is that this "shrinking
process" in membership is due, in some measure at least, to failure
to exercise proper care in the selection of material. Put differently,
there are members who never should have been allowed to approach
our Altar. Interest such in Masonry ? Our opinion is that it cannot
be done!
TEMPLES
The regulation adopted by a number of Jurisdictions, as well as
our own, requiring either the direct approval of the Grand Lodge before a Temple can be erected or at least consideration by a Grand
Lodge Advisory Council, has undoubtedly prevented Lodges from
assuming a financial burden that they could never meet. Other
Grand Lodges are considering the adoption of like regulations. The
well-known railroad sign, "Stop, Look and Listen," is particularly
applicable to ventures of this kind. A number of ·the existing edifices
are evidence of the fact that you cannot mix fraternalism and business, and also that it is a wise man, Committee or Lodge that can
tell what the future will bring forth.
As usual, in the various Jurisdictions there are rules regarding
the purposes for which a Temple may be used. Some exclude all
organizations except the Lod!'re itself, and even limit the occupancy
to Masonic meetings only, frowning upon the use of the Temple f~r
dancing, card parties or other social activities, eve? under Masomc
auspices. Personally we believe that our factories, schools and
churches, like an industrial plant, should be in continuous operation,
rather than operating on part time only.
Connecticut (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Master of
Michigan issued dispensations to two Lodges to meet in halls not ·y~t
dedicated. At least two Connecticut Temples have- never been dedicated and Lodges have . worked therein for years without question.

88

89

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

While our ~edication ceremony is far from uninteresting, what does it
amount to m a practical sense? Again, suppose dedicated premises
are later sold to profanes, what then?

the coercion usually incident with these enterprises, were consulted.
He could bring the experiences of many Brethren to bear on the
problem, and procure some good and wholesome advice and assistance.

Missouri (1929):
(Cluiirman Correspondence Committee): Our Missouri ·Grand
Lodge has declared that dancing cannot be permitted in our Masonic
Lodge rooms. When the subject was before our Grand Lodge a few
years ago, a statement was made that we commend to the consideration of our light-footed Alabama Brethren to this effect: that Thomas
in his "Source Book of Social Origins" tells us that it can scarcely
be doubted that dancing originated "as an adjunct to sexual stimulation." That as such it is openly practiced among primitive peoples
and, while in civilized nations it is not acknowledged, it doubtless
serves the same purpose.

New Jersey (1930):
(Grand Master): The wisdom of Grand Lodge in requmng approval of the Grand Master to prospective Temple building projects
has been exemplified several times during the year. Several unworkable plans, not meeting with approval, have been abandoned. A number of faulty ones have received suggested changes which have made
them acceptable, and a number of distinctly good and safe ones have
been approved immediately, all indicating that the action of Grand
Lodge has harmed no one, but has been beneficial to the Brethren.

Last Suriday the pastor of the Congregational Church of Springfield had a long article in the local paper in which he looks ahead
a hundred years and finds the Church the patron of the theatre and
the dance. A few such men do enter the ministry and some Masons
want to ~ance and play cards in Masonic halls, but the great majority
of us believe that halls that are solemnly dedicated "in the name of
the Supreme and Eternal God, the Grand Architect of Heaven and
Earth" should be kept free of such frivolities.

New Jersey (1930):
(Chairman Corresponde11ce Committee ): Freemasons of Quebec
are erecting in Montreal a beautiful memorial Temple to the Brethren
who "gave their all" in the Great War. We hope .it comes on all
right. They deserve a memorial g'r eater than human hands can raise.
The writer looked into the faces of some of these young men and felt
the grasp of their hands at a great meeting in Montreal just before
they went overseas. But Masonry m ust do more than erect Temples;
it must use the weight of its power to organize the good will of the
world, just as hate was organized in the days now happily gone and
almost forg.o ten.

New Jersey (1929): ·

1:f

(Gran~ ast.e r) : I would prefer that the Craft to which I belong
shall be d1stingu1shed for the multitude and munificence to its benefactions, rather than for the number and magnificence of its build- ·
ings. It shocks one's sensibilities of true proportion to hear the suggestion, that contributions to charity may not be expected because
the commitments of the Brethren to erect their Temples ar: so large.
as not to admit of further burdens.
If our Lodges have put themselves in chancery for years to come
to erect beautiful and perhaps too commodious quarters for them~
selves, to the point where further charitable enterprises must need '
await the extrication of our Brethen from their present dilemma
then it is high time that the matter of building and financing Tem~
pies was made the action and resolution of this Grand Lodge.

Many Brethren have been embarrassed because of their failure to
subscribe to the building of a Masonic Temple, and others have . been
embarrassed because they have subscribed too much. I think under
the circumstances that probably it would be better if the Grand Master, who would not be under the spell of enthusiasm, nor subject to

North Carolina (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Every Grand Lodge has
its own peculiar problems which would not appeal at all to other
Grand Lodges. For instance, we find the Grand Master of Alabama
approving appeals to the several lodges of the State "for help to rebuild a Lodge hall which had been destroyed by fire" ; "for help to
rebuild a Lodge hall which had been wrecked by storm"; and on behalf of Bladon Springs Lodge "for help to rebuild," circumstances not
stated.
We have no desire to •quarrel w ith our Alabama neighbors about
their magnanimous desire to h elp the weak Lodges in their distress,
but it is worth while to remark that such a practice would not be, and
is not permitted in North Carolina. We in this state hold that if a
L odge has a hall it should keep it insured; if it does, and a fire occurs,
the Lodge has protection and does not need to receive charity; if it
does not, it by that fact argues itself so improvident that it would be

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCJ!J

90

91

REPORT ON CORRESI ONDENCE

inexpedient for other Lodges to donate funds which might vanish
again in another fire, without insurance, within a few months' time.
Such a course, therefore, puts a premium upon improvidence.
Ohio (1930):
(Grand Master): It is most laudable when an enthusiastic membership desire a new home and in ·a lmost every case where a new Temple
has been erected, the interest has always increased.
However, high-powered salesmanship for new Temples' has entered the field of Masonry. These campaigns are generally conducted
by ~ompanies or individuals for profit to themselves. They are usually
entirely unaware of local conditions and no further interested than
that th~ campaign goes over the top. Then the aftermath: pledge
cards signed under more or less pressure, carrying a legal obligation
to pay, neglect of which is followed by court action. Consult the legal
records of one of Ohio's largest cities. At least ten to fifteen Masons
b.efore a court, sued for non-payment of pledges. In some cases, possibly, they were able to pay. In others, positively unable to pay.
I have made a personal investigation of this situation and am well
aware of the facts.
In a number of cases where correspondence took place relative to
charity work or a request by the Grand Master that a Lodge assist
in performing its obligation to a sick member in care of a Sister Jurisdiction, the answer was, "We have built a Temple and are so financially embarrassed that we have been unable to render further assistance." Another Lodge doubted their ability to pay the Grand Lodge
tax for the same reason.
Before a Lodge proceeds by the "Intensive Campaign Method,"
led by strangers to the community, permission should first be obtained from the Grand Lodge. There are enough able business men'
in every community who are Masons to conduct their own campaign
without embarrassing a single member of the Fraternity.
Every Lodge could, without harm to anyone, establish a building
fund , constantly adding a m ite at regular intervals; then, in the
smaller hamlets, where fire is a constant hazard, where the Lodge is
in rented quarters, should a fire occur, the fund with its interest accumulation through the years would be instantly available, and far better quarters be secured with no hardship on the membership. The
same idea would apply in the cities where a number of Lodges are
located.

BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS
Without comment we submit the excerpts from the Reports of
the respective Jurisdictions reviewed, so that the reader may see how
the Grand Lodge and its Officers are viewed both at home and abroad.
The Seventy-eighth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M., San Francisco, October 11, 1927. George L. Jones,
Grand Master.
Maryland:
Grand Master Jones condemns the injection of politics into
Masonry in the strongest terms and says that the ·old Charges of
1722, which resolved against all politics, is as good law today as
when adopted.
The 1927 Report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence
by Brother Jesse M. Whited is a valuable compendium in the nature
of a topical review of what the Committee thinks are the outstanding
actions of other Grand Jurisd.i ctions and expressions of opinions of
leading Masons. It is accompanied by the opinions of the Committee
with some of which we cannot agree.
We must, however, congratulate Bro. Whited upon giving to
the Craft a splendid presentation of the Masonic thought of the
country at large and thank him for the condensed information in
the Appendices.
The Seventy-ninth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
F. & A. M., San Francisco, October 9, 1928. Will H. Fischer, Grand
Master.
Alabama:
The frontispiece of the volume is an engraving of Past Grand
Master Will H .. Fischer, he is a "Native Son" and began his business
life as a cub reporter. He is now assistant to the President of the
California Edison Company. The last p;iragraph of the biographical
sketch . may give the secret of his success: "Our retiring Grand
Master is blessed with a wife who is known widely for her intellec- .
tual attainments and as an amiable and comforting helpmeet." ·
This volume is filled with interesting items, many of which
cannot be included because of lack of space.
The Grand Master gives a great deal of attention to the various
historical celebrations that were held during the year. One .of these

92

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

held at Coloma re-enacted the formation of early Masonic Lodges
and other historical happenings that took place immediately after
the discovery of gold in California.
The experience of the present writer as a reviewer is only a
few weeks old and the number of proceedings is about a dozen at
this writing. An opinion from me would be worth very little, but,
I venture to say that the report on Foreign Correspondence written
by Brother Jesse M. Whited is one of the best to be found in any
of the Proceedings. He writes a topical review touching upon all
the important things in the various proceedings. The last subject,
which he calls "Olla Podrida," he tells us is "a Spanish term, meaning
a dish of stewed meat," hence a mixture, and Brother Whited has a
variety of interesting items under this head. He quotes the Grand
Secretary of Nevada as saying "A wise borrower hath more wisdom
than a poor composer, and whomsoever has not made this discovery
is not wise." Believing the truth of this quotation I submit the
clippings from Brother Whited' s report and wish I had room for
more.
Colorado:
The Grand Master reported several 75th Anniversary Obs.e rvances, notable among these was that at Coloma, the setting of the
day that '49, with an historical .drama in three acts entitled, "Men of
Destiny," presented in the evening.
The Grand Master highly praised the work of the Order of
DeMolay.
Over three pages of the Grand Master's address are given the
subject of Lodge Clubs and Internal Organizations. He gives reports
of careful investigations.
Connecticut:
He asks if the law of physical qualifications might not be modified in favor of those who have lost limbs in defense of our country.
We would counter by asking if the interests of a small class, however
worthy, should overbalance the greater interests of the whole Fraternity. Grand Lodge finally left the entire question to the discretion
of the Lodge, without prejudice for or against war veterans.
The Grand Orator delivered " his annual oration, a most eloquent
effort." Not printed.
The Educational Committee made report which would apparently
show that the seed sowed for the last four years is continually
working. More power to them.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

93

Although in 1923 Grand Lodge voted approval of Dual Membership, they rejected· an amendment to carry it into effect. Now another
effort to adopt such amendment "failed of approval." Personally we
think California is right.
Delaware:
R. W. Brother Jesse M. Whited presents the report on Correspondence in the usual topical form. The Proceedings of Delaware
for 1927 are referred to under the title of "Bouquets and Brickbats."
Fortunately or unfortunately, the distance is so great that neither
of the objects would be effective, one wou ld fade, the other is out
of reach.
Georgia:
This Grand Jurisdiction, the originator of Masonic Educational
programs of the most stupendous size, establishes even greater plans.
Its annual appropriations for Masonic Education have grown in the
last ten years from $500 to $10,000.
Grand Master Will H. Fischer, who presented one of the greatest
addresses of the year, tells of the work of the Educational Committee.
Brother Jesse Whited presents a topical essay, giving excerpts
from various Grand Jurisdictions and comments thereon. A summary
of developments of the year is presented as a Foreword.
Illinois:
Practically every large city in California maintains a Board of
Relief. It would be interesting if space permitted to review the report
of each as it would give the Craft some idea of the burdens that
fall up~n the great state of California, but they are meetin~ their
responsibilities nobly and are entitled to the greatest of credit. The
employment bureaus maintained in a number of cities are doing a
splendid work. One thing the Masons of California do is to take
an active interest in the observance of public school week and a
report by a large committee on this subject is most interesting.
The report on the California Masonic Home is exhaustive. ·
The procee·dings of the Grand Lodge of California under review
are intensely interesting and show that the Craft in that great state
are wide awake w ith a splendid understanding of Ancient Craft
Masonry, its inten ts and purposes. There is a marked dis~osit~on to
make Masonry of practical value, and the Masons of Cahforma .are
to be highly commended for the splendid progress they are making.
Jesse M. Whited writes the Report on Corres.pond~nce. _It is
topical, which makes it difficult to review when seeking his estimate
of Illinois. However, the report is well prepared and should prove
interesting to those who desire to consider his subject topically.

94

R:;:J:PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Iowa:
Grand Master Will H . Fischer was the dis tinguished gentleman
who presided over the destinies of this Grand Lodge during the year.
Brother Fischer is a great journalist, a fine · business executive and
withal a man of unquestioned culture and has a· fine story of his
achievements to tell in his annual address.
Brother Fischer put considerable pep and ginger behind the
work of the Educational Committee.
The result of ~rother Fischer's vigorous campaign was that the
attendance at the Lodges showed an increase of 22 per cent.
What Brother Fischer writes concerning the revision of the
funeral ritual is great stuff, well worthy of the pen of such a literary
artist a nd high-minded Mason.
Brother Fischer is also sane and sound on the subject of physical
qualifications.
The Special Committee appointed to investigate the financial
records of the various Lodges made an excellent report.
Grand Secretary John Whicher headed this Committee as its
Chairman, a nd when it comes to the matter of keeping records John
"knows his onions." The printed proceedings which he turns out
for his Grand Lodge year after year are invariably a marvel of
accuracy and are attractively printed in a neatly bound volume.
We see California taking a front rank in the matter of Masonic
study and education.
The Boards of Relief make their usual splendid r eports. To read
these reports with their interesting stories of practical relief and
help administered in the form of. furni s hing employment to brethren
out of work is to make one proud of our institution.
The repo!!t of the Committee on the Observance of Public
Schools Week on its ninth annual observance, tells of great work
well done. ·
Brat.h er Jesse M. Whited is the author of the Report on Fraternal Correspondence ·and it is an excellent one. He has culled the
views a nd opinions of the various writers of fraternal r eviews with
great discrimina tion and good · taste. He is kind enough to quote us
on a number of Masonic items.
Kansas:
The Grand Master submits his report in a brief form.
During the year he came in contact with 471 Lodges. This does
not represent official visits to that number, but to that number under
what he terms "a group plan." Of course this is better than no visit~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

95

at all, yet it is doubtful whether the same benefits accrue as if the
Grand Master visited even half that number of L odges in an individual way.
Possibly the most important matter · submitted to their Grand
Lodge came under the head 'o f "Masonic History and Observances."
Space forbids the printing of the Grand Master's words on this
subject ; however, in justice to its im portance we quote the findings
of the Committee.
R. W. Brother John Whicher, their fa ithful Grand Secretary,
presented anothet. of his inter.esting and complete reports.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits an interesting topical Report
on Correspondence and from his preface we take pleasure in quoting.
Kentucky:
The Grand Master is very much opposed to what he terms
"Horseplay Clubs" in connection with Masonry, and rightly, we
think.
The report on Correspondence is by Brother Jesse M. Whited.
It is topical in form and quite exhaustive and interesting.
Maryland:
Under the heading of "Masonic History and Observances," we
are given an interesting account of the different celebrations of the
75th Anniversaries of a number of Lodges chartered in 1853. The
most notable was one held at Coloma, wherein seven Lodges participated.
The Craft are admonished to guard the portals of Masonry-an
important admonition.
Bro. Jesse M. Whited of the Committee on Correspondence has,
as customary, an interesting summary of the Proceedings of Foreign
Jurisdictions together with his introductory comments thereupon.
Missouri:
Beginning with 19 17, the Grand Lodge has appropriated
$55,0CO.OO for an Educational program in the Lodges. It is planned
to take up three topics each month, one being strictly a Masonic
subject. We can say what Old Lady Partington said of the Doctrine
of Total Depravity, "It's a very good thing if only lived up to."
One topic suggested is, "What the U niverse is made of." We trust
that when our California brethren solve this problem they will enlighten the rest of mankind. The next topic given is "California
Courts." Is it true as the papers have told us that the Supreme Court

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of California has decided that the Bible is a sectarian book and that
a California Attorney General has ruled that the "Lord's Prayer" is
sectarian?

The Annual Oration by Brother Rufus B. von K leinSmid we
are told was an eloquent effort, but the orator did not or could not
furnish a transcript of it-so we are willing to accept the record as
to its merits.
The Boards of Relief reported and we believe that this Jurisdiction has abo.ut the best working system that could be devised in the
relief problem.
Brother Jesse M. Whited as Chairman presented ISO pages of
Correspondence Report. This is his eighth. It is topieal in its arrangement as heretofore. In his foreword he had a few choice
morsels.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is the usual
able one, preceded by a foreword.
Among the visitors at the Grand Lodge of Oregon ( 1929) we
note tbe presence of John Whicher, the splendid Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge of California.

96

But of the Ritual of the Order of. DeMolay the Grand Master
says :
"In so far as the first degree is concerned, it is admirable; but
I believe the ritual of the second degree should be abolished and a
new one substituted therefor."
We believe that if the Knights of Columbus could witness this
second degree they would concur in this recommendation. Rome's
motto is "Semper idem." Her policy changes according to the wind~
that blow upon it, but her principles do not change and there are
chapters of history she has made that ought not to be forgotten.
The Report of the Correspondence Committee of ISO pages is
by Jesse M. Whited, Past Master of California Lodge No. l. The
old preachers used to divide sermons into two classes, "Textual" and
"Topical." Correspondents generally follow the textual plan; so a
correspondent who wishes to know what another correspondent said
about his Grand Lodge had only to turn to the comment on that
Grand Lodge and could skip all the rest of the report. But W. Bro.
Whited adopts the topical plan. He gives a hundred pages to topics
from "Advertising" to the "Washington Memorial." Then we have
fourteen pages devoted to "Bouquets and Brickbats," in which he
refers briefly to the Proceedings of many Grand Lodges. Then follows a heading, "Olla-Podrida," which is defined as "a Spanish term
meaning a dish of stewed meat." His "mixture" makes good eatinl('
and this Scribe looked over all pages of his report but found nothing
that would harm Missouri.
Montana:
The Educational program was reported on by him as flourishing.
Many large and interesting events among the Lodges of his
jurisdiction took place during the year and he participated. in most
of them.
The Grand Master's address is about the finest, or one of the
finest it has been our pleasure to read; couched in choice language.
logical, all in proper sequence, fine sentiments are all there; after
the address we find reproduced all his edicts, and letters and answers
on special matters of interest as deemed advisable to be covered as
an addenda to the address.

97

Nevada:
Grand Master Will H . Fischer delivered an address of some
forty-eight printed pages. It was wonderfully well written and
covered a multitude of interesting subjects.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submitted his eighth report on Foreign
Correspondence. It is topical and highly interesting for its style and
arrangement of findings for the several Jurisdictio ns under the headings selected by Bro. Whited as the outstanding Masonic topics of
the day.
New Jersey:
Grand Master Fischer, despite the travel incidental to a Jurisdiction in which magnificent distances prevail, came in contact during
the ' year with the representatives of 471 of S62 Lodges. This year's
hegira is pictured in his annual address which covers a broad field
of interests, the understanding of which could come only by personal contact with the problems while abroad in the Jurisdiction
itself.
California's handling of difficult financial affairs of the sort that
confront most Grand Jurisdictions of this country was marked by
conservatism, yet seemed to provide the sensible answer.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is agai~ the
work of Brother Jesse M. Whited, the eighth he has presented as
Chairman. His report is submitted by subjects instead of by. Grand
Jurisdictions and is prefaced by paragraphic comment on matters
that he found to be the principal ones under discussion by Masonry.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

98

99

O hio :
It is an informative method, offering a review of Masonry in general,
rather than a survey of the various Jurisdictions. We rather like it
as a whole, though to the Reviewer of Proceedings there is a considerable loss of the personal touch in the method.
North Da kota :
The Grand Master delivered an exceptionally long address, evidently having found many things within the Jurisdiction which in
his opinion ought to be remedied. Some of his proposals were
adopted and a · number rejected by the Grand Lodge. To some extent
he had evidently become a convert to the usual American practice
when anything is not satisfactory of "pass a law on it."
Another good move was the passing of a law requiring plans
for financing building projects to be submitted to a Grand Lodge
committee for approval.
California has a well organized educational program in operation and the exhaustive survey made by the Grand Master proved
of exceptional interest.
Special celebrations were held in most Lodges in commemoration
of Washington's Masonic birthday, and for the ninth time one week
was set apart as "Public Schools \,Y eek." Evidently the light is burning brightly in California.
On paper California is down near the bottom of the list of contributors to the Washington Memorial, but in fact they have provided for the payment of twenty cents per capital per annum and so
will be "over the top" by the time the building is completed.
Brother John Whicher presented his twenty-first annual report
as Grand Secretary, so he is now of age and still going strong.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presents his Corresponde.n ce Report
(the eighth) in topical form and we note sevrral extracts from the
North Dakota proceedings. Then under the t;tle of "Olla Podrida~"
which he explains is Spanish for a dish of steV\ ed meat, hence a mixture, he shortly reviews those things which could not be classified
under any of his topical headings. Under this head, he gives North
Dakota more than twice· the space allotted to any other Grand Jurisdiction, most of it being from Bill Hutcheson's report on what the
constituent Lodges have been -d oing in -the way of Masonic service
and education. We are proud of what our Lodges have been doing
in "Applied Masonry" and are pleased to read the favorable comments it has provoked.

The Grand Master, Bro. Will H. Fischer, then read his Annual
Message, which was quite a lengthy document showing a busy year
and devotion to duty on the part of the Grand Master.
The Foreign Correspondent, Bro. J esse M. Whited, submitted
his eighth Report as Chairman of the Committee of Foreign Correspondence, given in his usual "topical" manner.
O regon:
The Grand Master, William Howard Fischer, is well known in
California for his constructive work in civic, business and Masonic
circles. To his constructive work this Grand Lodge is indebted for
the certificate system of vouching for and admitting members to
Grand Lodge.
An important historical observance took place at Coloma June
2 and 3, 1928. This was planned and held in recognition of the 75th
anniversary of nine Lodges chartered in 1853. A special train ran
from Los Angeles to Coloma. By train and automobile many brethren
from San Francisco joined the pilgrimage to the historic site where,
on January 19, 1848, gold was discovered at the old Sutter Mill by
James W. Marshall. The brethren arrayed themselves in the costume
of mining days. Some of the Grand officers arrived in a stage coach
once used between Placerville and Carson City in the days of the
gold excitement.
Brother Howell B. Murphy of Placerville, impersonating a pony
express rider, arrived and swam his horse across the river to deliver
"!\•hat purported to be the first Masonic charter.
An historical play, "Men of Destiny," was presented in a natural
stadium. In the play the story of the participation of Masons in the
controlling events of the early days was developed. There was an
uplifting Sunday morning service, following which the brethren
began journeying toward home, taki ng with them the lasting impression of the living past.
Masons in California are rendering service to their brethren
who are World War veterans in the Government hospita ls at San
Fernando, Livermore, anci Palo Alto.
Worshipful Brother Rufus B. Van KleinSmid, Grand Orator,
delivered an eloquent oration which was received with deserved
applause.
The Report of the Commi ttee on Correspondence was submitted by the Chairman, Brother Jesse M. Whited. The report is

100

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

given in a topical form . .A subject of general interest is treated by
quoting under that heading the opinion or rulings of various Jurisdictions on that topic.
Pennsylvania:
California is noted for its "bigness" and its Masonic Grand
Lodge, both numerically and otherwise, lives up to this reputation.
The Grand Master also comes out strongly against clubs and
organizations within the Lodge which seem to have no other purpose than "horse play."
Brother J esse M. Whited, Chairman of the Committee on Corre.s pondence, presents a most illuminating report discoursing under
the head of topics, rather than Jurisdictions. In this way he comments entertainingly and instructively on various subjects identified
with the several Jurisdictions in the upbuilding, uplifting and upholding of Freemasonry.
South Carolina:
The book of Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of California iS
brimfull of interest.
Of remarkable note is the fact that the Grand Master, Brother
Will H. Fischer, was able to visit and touch the officers and many
of the brethren of four hundred and seventy-one out of the five
hundred and sixty-four Lodges within the Jurisdiction.
The account given of the celebration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Lodges that were chartered in 1853 forms most
interesting reading.
The year 1849 marked the time of the gold rush in' California.
Scenes of these days were re-enacted during this celebration and
the setting furnished a wonderful atmosphere for the celebration.
An historical drama was given entitled "The Man of Destiny."
Masonic history was thus preserved.
Like celebrations of the seventy-fifth anniversaries of Lodges
were held at San .Diego, Grass Valley, Sacramento, Mariposa and
Fresno. The programs were similar in many respects though not as
elaborate as at Coloma. They constituted red-letter days in the
history of the Craft in ·California.
In the matter of building Masonic Temples without the assurance of adequate plans for financing, Grand Master Fischer states
that the brethren have been betrayed by their enthusiasm. This is
a serious problem confronting many Grand Lodges and California
is not an exception.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

101

The Educational Committee gives an intelligent, comprehensive
and enthusiastic report of the educational work throughout the
Jurisdiction during the year. The report indicates that much has
been accomplished and that a large degree of success is being attained.
The Grand Lodge adopted the recommendation of the Grand
Master that the Grand Lodge of California present a gold button to
each Mason. within the Jurisdiction who has ·been a member of a
Lodge, or Lodges, fifty years or more. Such recognition is a mark
of respect and affection.
The Correspondence Report and Reviews are the work of
Brother Jesse M. Whited. The topical form is observed throughout.
We prefer the individual review, but we find much of interest in
Brother Whited's contribution.
Tennessee:
The biographical sketch represents the Grand Master as a
former newspaper man and at present assistant to the President of
the Southern California Edison Company. His numerous educational
bulletins to the Masters of the Lodges of California sound rather
more like he had been a superintendent of Public Instruction.
A pageant full of historical significance-the establishment of
t.h e California Republic, the discovery of gold, the organization of
the Grand Lodge of California at Sacramento, April 17, 1850, and
the issuance of charters to the Lodges located on the Mother Lode
seven in all, June 27, 1853, was prepared by Jesse M. Whited, th~
versatile Fraternal Correspondent, under the title of "Men of Destiny," and presented under the blue dome of heaven and the full moon.
Texas:
Grand Master Fischer's Annual Address is a business-like document from beginning to end. Without any sort of a to-do, he opens
as he concludes, with clear~cut statements of his administrative acts.
His discussion of different subjects handled evidences a well-stored
mind, at once marking him as a clear and constructive thinker. with
a marked degree · of ability in the giving expression to his thoughts.
Grand Master speaks in glowing terms of the successful achievements of Grand Lodge through its splendid committee on "Public
Schools ·week." Thus far this enterprise of Grand Lodge shows
nothing short of success and most satisfying results. Fully recognizing the fact that this Grand Jurisdiction is blessed with many of the
foremost Masonic leaders of America, the wonder with us is that
we find it impossible for us personally to follow their lead at this

103

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

point. No greater cause could challenge the attention and activities
of these brethren as citizens and doubtless no greater force for the ·
accomplishing of so high a purpose could be enlisted than these same
individuals, but we do maintain that organized Masonry has no
legitimate place in movements of this character.
Masonic Clubs and Masonic Club Houses are challenging the
highest degree of judicious judgment, wi~e d~termination and courageous execution at the hands of our California brethren.
Grand Lodge is definitely committed to the policy, the precedents are set, and the problem is theirs, while we simply stand by
and "see what we shall see." These Club Houses, however, are enterprised by Grand Lodge and those occupying and using same are
doubtless under the direct control and management of Grand Lodge.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presents his eighth report as chairman
of the Committee on Correspondence. He uses the topical form,
which really places him in a class all his own. It is simply an
admirable production and of great value.

A pleasing feature was the presentation to Grand Lodge of a
gavel and pedestal made from the timbers of Sutter's Mill. Also a
gavel was presented to the Grand Master from the same source.
These gifts were presented by the Supreme Pyramid, Ancient Egyptian Order of Sciots.
Other similar meetings were held in San Diego, at Grass Valley,
Sacramento, Mariposa and Fresno.
The Grand Lodge is to be complimented over the fact that the
Grand Master was not obliged to make many decisions.
Grand Master Fischer recommended that Grand L odge provide
buttons to be presented to aged Masons who had been members of a
California Lodge for fifty years. The custom is a very pleasing one,
and one that could be adopted with pleasure to all.
California is not free from the optimistic ideas which bring
disaster in their wake, for we note that several Lodges are in difficulties over expensive Lodge rooms. This is not the only Grand
Jurisdiction which is so troubled.
He also speaks wisely of Lodge Clubs and internal organization.
He appointed a committee to investigate the subject; and their
r eport is illuminating.
A long and circumstantial report from the Committee on Public
Schools Week is worthy of a careful reading, but we have not the
space for it here.
This move on the part of the Grand Lodge of California seems
to be out of the usual line of M asonic work, although it must be
acknowledged that such work is needed. The common indifference
of the general public to school matters is a matter of unusual importance to the state, and there is great need for a shaking of the
dry bones of social indifference.
The report of the Committee of P olicy and General Purposes
contains many good things.
Under the head of the "Recognition of Foreign Jurisdictions,"
we find these informative words about the Grand Lodge of Sweden,
which gives so much that is worth while, that we will quote it.
The .Report o n Correspondence is written in topical form and
deals wholly with the main questions coming before Masonry today.
It is an excellent exposition of what s uch a topical report should be.
Under the several headings we find quotations from Grand Masters,
from committee reports, and correspondence, giving the names of
reviewers. We find that the committee quoted from the Proceeding
of the Grand Lodge of Washington thirteen times. The review

102

Vermont:
There is much in this Grand Master's address which we would
like to present to our brethren, but considerations of space forbid
further quotations.
The · business of the Grand Lodge of California is immense in
amount with its thirteen Boards of Relief, its three Employment
Bureau~, its Masonic Clubs, its two Masonic Homes, its education
projects, etc.
The r~port of the Committee on Correspondence is ag~in ~y
Brother Jesse M. Whited-high eighth. It is, of course, topical m
form and is a very valuable document for the student of Masonry.
Washington:
Under the Grand Master's tutelage a new program for educational purposes was tried out, and seems to have been successful and
to be enthusiastically met by the Brethren.
The Grand Master also mentions several events closely connected with the history of California, which were underta~en ?Y
groups of Masons at several locations. One at Coloma, Cahforma,
·in commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Lodge~ chartered
in 1853. He advised the Brethren to array themselves m t~e costumes of the mining days. This seems to have been done with the
result that a rather motley crowd of Masons gathered for the occasion. At these meetings specially prepared programs were presented,
which must have been unique on their presentation.

REPOrlT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

covers the year 1927, and we wish to thank the committee for his
liberal quotations from our reviews. The report is signed. by. Brother
Jesse M. Whited as Chairman, although there are five members of
the committee.

It is topical, which involves time and labor as well as talent. We
thank him for the benefit derived· from reading after him, and of
course, feel complimented by his excerpts from our efforts and wish
to assure him that what was said then is equally true as to this, his
last report, it is instructive as well as enjoyable.

104

West Virginia:
Grand Master Will H. Fischer opened Grand Lodge in Ample
Form and delivered his Address, a good report in that it detailed his
~ctivities which were necessarily onerous in this so large jurisdiction,
in that he showed his readiness to deal with situations. arising, and so
well expressed in its arrangements as to subjects dealt with, notwithstanding his illness.
Grand Lodge approved his recommendation to finance erection
of monument to perpetuate memory of Brother Pelton on the spot
where the Pelton Wheel originated, in that it first adopted Report
of ·Committee on Policy and General Purposes. Then after ·by adoption of Finance Committee turned down any appropriation for that
erection, commending, however, the Grand Master for his recommendation. Some Grand Master that.
With
this great and good work in education and· with such
large membership it may seem strange but Grand Master calls attention to a clandestine body at Fresno known as "Hiram of Tyre
Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of California," holding Comrnunicati?n,
and advises that it appears that they have two or three clandestine
Grand Lodges in California. California adjoins Mexico, we must
remember.
Grand Master gives suggestions for change in ritual of DeMola~,
though that Order· is not recognized as any part of Masonry by hts
Grand Lodge, and referring to his laying cornerstone of the Eastern
Star Temple at Sacramento.
Even at this distance this writer will not risk any challenge of
the statement, having learned in youth that good rule ":'hen we know
not what to do it is best to do nothing. As an outsider we know
what the Eastern Star has done materially for our Masonic Horne,
and it must be good when it so materially assists in that good work.
This same committee also congratulated the Grand Secretary,
Brother Whicher, on his attaining his twenty-one years of se~vice,
congratulated the Craft on receiving the benefit thereof, and while he
is living on borrowed time, expressed the hope "that the loan shall
never mature."
Brother Jesse M. Whited furnishes his eighth r eport on Correspondence, result of great labor to him and to be the more appreciated by those who have struggled with such work.

all

105

Wyoming:
The Grand Master's address contains the usual complete account
of his official act during his term of office.
The report on correspondence is by Brother Jesse M . Whited,
who submitted a topical report which is very good.

-

Alberta:
The Grand Master reports a very active year, and it is evident
that the duties of his office not only occupied his time very fully but
must have been a very great strain upon his physical powers.
The Grand Master is sympathetic to the Order of DeMolay, but
considered any support of this Order should be given by individual
Masons and he approved of the policy adopted by Grand Lodge tha~
constitutent Lodges should not sponsor Chapters of the Order of
DeMolay.
California, judging from the Grand Master's address, has its
problems in the matter of Lodge Clubs and internal organizations.
The report of the Education Committee shows that a strong
educational program is being carried through from year to year in
accordance with the policy adopted by the Grand Lodge of California some years ago. This program is gathering momentum and
would appear to be giving to the Craft in California all the educational opportunities which an ordinary man can take advantage of.
As heretofore, an outstanding feat ure of the Annual R eport consists in the reports of the various Boards of Relief and the benevolent
activities of the Grand Lodge of California through its Masonic
Hornes and other benevolent and educational institutions, notably the
Masonic Club House in the University of California at Berkeley and
the suggested new Club House at the University of Southern California at Los Angeles.
A lengthy and informative report appears in connection with the .
ninth annual observance of what is known as " Public Schools Week."
This movement appears to be gaining importance in this jurisdiction.
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence was presented
by R. W. Brother Jesse M. Whited. T his is Brother Whited's eightq .

107

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDJ<:::NCE

successive report, and is presented on the same topical plan which
he has followed for some years and in which he has achieved an
enviable success.

the object being to emphasize the value of Masonic ~story in this
jurisdiction and to perpetuate the memory of their pioneer Masons.
It is said, "One has to go away from home for home news."
Anyway, the report of the Committee on Correspondence by Brother
Jesse M. 'Whited is very interesting and the way same is arranged
makes it very easy to learn · the views of the different jurisdictions
on any one subject. ·

106

Canada:
The biography of the Grand Master shows that for twenty years
he was a journalist and is now assistant to the President of the California Edison Company-"small in stature but in intellect a peer."
The invocation by the Grand Chaplain was somewhat unusual.
The ninth annual observance of Public Schools Week was a
general success, and was made a community affair.
Historical dramas were presented throughout the state and are
reported to have been wonderful functions.
The Masonic Club in connection with the University of California at Los Angeles has made good strides.
Four Masonic Temple projects have caused embarrassment and
apprehension. Too ambitious.
With practical philanthropy, a state-wide Masonic Employment
Service is emphasized and appreciated in California.
We get a wonderful insight into Scandinavian Masonry.
California pays fair salaries to those who make the r esponsible
offices of Grand Lodge their life work.
A fine ceremony of dedication of the vault of Western Star
Lodge is given in full and is a model.
Then comes the outstanding feature of the Proceedings, the
Correspondence Report of Jesse M. Whited in super-topical form.
Space will only permit an occasional reference to the many pivot
subjects of Masonic interest of which he so thoughtfully writes.
Four delicious pages are given us under Humor, cheering messages to merry, merry Masons in the summer solstice.
He discriminates as to what are politics Masonically.
Religion to him means toleration and something more.
He has several pages of " Bouquets and Brickbats," cheers and
contumely for his form of Reviews, but all recognize. its merits.
Nova Scotia:
This jurisdiction excels in educational work in constituent
lodges. . . . Another matter in which W. M . Brother Fischer has
taken an active interest and which he commended the favorable consideration from Grand Lodge is " Masonic History and Observances,"

Saskatchewan: ·
An elaborate address was delivered by the Grand Master, who
certainly had a very busy year.
Western Australia:
The Grand Master held it to be no impropriety for the Brethren
of a Lodge to participate in a simple picnic on Sunday, provided it
was private, restricted to members and their families, with no advertising, sale of tickets, or "commercfal features," whatever that may
mean. Well, in Sunny California, the Brethren seem to have time on
any old week7day for a festive jaunt, and why Sunday should be
roped in to provide a seventh opportunity is, as Lord Dundreary said,
"one of those things no fellah can find out."
A recommendation of the Grand Master, adopted by Grand
Lodge, was the provision of buttons, "made from the pure gold of
California's hills, for presentation to veterans of not less than fifty
years' standing." This is the adoption of a charming custom in many
American Jurisdictions, and probably the adoption will be all the
more charming by the recognition that the hills of California produce
gold which is so wonderfully pure.
DeMolay seems, in the words of the old Negro spirituel, to be
"inchin' and a-in.chin' along" in California, and in a Masonic direction.
It is not officially sponsored, but it is blessed by Masons individually.
and the Grand Master was "indebted to several Chapters for
courtesies cooperation, and assistance o n public occasions." That is
how the members of the Adoptive Rite "kept a-inchin' " in their
salad days.
The Grand Mas ter found it necessary to defi ne his position and
incidentally .that of. Grand Lodge, towards life insurance. He would
like to see every Mason carry a reasonable amount. He had no
prejudice against any company which, for the promotion of its interests. re stricted the selection of its risks to Masons, but the adoptiort
of such a policy did not and could not give the Company even the
slightest claim to Masonic recognition or Masonic preference. Such

HEl'UH'l' ON CURHESPUNVENCJ!:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

an attitude as that of Brother Fischer seems based on sound, common sense. The pity of it is, that owing to company greed in the
United States, it should have become a matter of annual occurrence
for several years past, for the time of many Annual Communica,tions
to be taken up with lengthy references to this matter. Especially is
it so when it is remembered that in numbers of cases Masons, .supposed to understand Masonry, serve on the directorates of such
companies.
Amongst the cornerstones laid by the Grand Master was that
of the Sacramento Eastern Star Temple, a building th~ "Stars" in
the State Capital have long had in view. On behalf of Grand. Lodge,
Brother Fischer felicitated the Stars upon their enterprise in erecting
this building, which is now completed. Naturally, the members of
the Order were present in large force, but so also were members of
other bodies more or less interested. They included the Rainbow
Girls, Daughters of Job, Order of Amaranth, White Shrine of Jerusalem, Daughters of Masons, K!;!ights Templar, Shriners, Sciots, and
the DeMolays. It recalls to mind the cowboy's exclamation, when he
had mustered the cattle: "Whoopee! They're all there!"
With regard to the Annual Oration, one reads that it was delivered, and was "a most eloquent effort." Also that it was decided
to have it printed for circulation. Having thus whetted the appetite
for further knowledge, the Proceedings withhold the title, and, moreover, inform us that the orator was unable to furnish a transcript for
publication.
To do full justice to the entire book before the reviewer would
entail considerable more space than is at his disposal, and it has,
therefore, been necessary.to select a few of the leading features.
For the eighth time Brother Jesse M. Whited presents the report
on Foreign Correspondence. One of the busiest of busy Reviewers,
he furnishes, in topical form , reviews of the Proceedings of fortyeight United States Grand Lodges and thirty-six Grand Jurisdictions
foreign to that country, making a total of eighty-four Grand Bodiesa notable work. Brother Whited truly has a flair for the topical
form of review, and a peculiar feature is that, besides assemblii:ig
under each caption what is said in various jurisdictions on the subject.
he prefaces the· ouotations with his own observations in the form of
a brief review, which adds considerably to the value. While: .in ~om­
mon with most of his brother reviewers, this scribe prefers the
Jndividual review. fo r many reasons, nothin~ hut praise can be
accorded to the Californian topic:il reviewer for his admir.a ble contribution to Masonic literature. Western Australia for 1927 is dealt
with very generously and courteously, indeed. it is the most quoted

of the "Foreign" books, and ranks with Florida and Maine, of the
United S tates jurisdictions, as the tenth most frequently quoted. The
review is preceded. by a finely w ritten foreword, which summarizes,
inter:estingly, certain fc:atures common to the various proceedings.

108

109

Mexico:
Seventy-ninth Annual Communication.
The Proceedings are adorned with a fine picture of the M. W.
Grand Master Brother Will H . F ischer. Where there's a will there's
a wa'y and California in many ways has shown the real will during
the year 1928 .... There are many "ways" for a Grand Master to let
the members know he is a "worker" and not a mere figurehead. This
is one of them, the Group-Plan... . The M. W. Grand Master being
an electrical man showed how to make good "contacts" everywhere.
For many years the Grand Lodge has been definitely committed
to the policy of carrying on education work in Constituent Lodges.
We fi nd in. 1917 the appropriation was $500.00, for the years 1925,
1926 and 1927 this fund was made $10,000.00 for each year. What a
wonderful fount of wisdom has thereby been created.
California and California Grand Lodge are Big and Growing
Bigger, at the same time Better, every day, in every way.
At Coloma on June 2nd and 3rd, an observance was held of the
75th anniversary of all the Lodges chartered in 1853. A complete
special train ran from Los Angeles to the scene of celebration. By
request th.e Brethren were advised to array themselves in the costumes of the old mining days. An historical drama was presented in
the evening, entitled: "Men of Destiny." It was presented on the
smooth face of a gently slowing hillside, 2,500 Brethren were present.
Many other interesting features were presented, the details of which
are too many for us to include in our limited space.
Five hundred dollars was sent to the slfferers in Porto Rico.
Florida was also aided and it is a pleasure to read: "California was
the ·f irst state to offer assistance to our Brethren in the time of need
.. and it will be long r emembered by the Grand Lodge of Florida."
The services which have been rendered by the V. W . Grand
Secretary have been of inestimable value. He stands in my opinion
recognized throughout the United States as a Grand Secretary without an equal. He is a tower of strength to our Grand Lodge . .
So ends the Grand Master's Report of forty-seven pages from
which we have selected a few little items only. It is a report worthy
of the attention and we might say even imitation by others who
occupy, have occupied and will occupy the Grand 'East. The influence

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

110

111

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of such a hard-working, intelligent, painstaking and competent Grand
Master will be felf and acknowledged for years to come. It is a
regret that he ~as not elected for another year. Like real good
Grand Secretaries real good Grand Masters are not found every
year. As we stated in our opening lines, "Where there's a will there's
a way."
Fourteen pages are devoted to the Report of Committee on
Public Schools Week. Ninth Annual Observance. . . . Read this
report, Brethren of every Jurisdiction. This is not a fantastic storythis is an accomplishment, a real activity. This means more good to
the world at large and the Fraternity and its members, than to figure
out where and how King Solomon's Temple was built, and if the
Three Grand Masters ever iived. and when Speculative Masonrv was
evolved from Operative Masonry. This will produce a rich h~rvest
in the years to come. Let. us try it out in other Jurisdictions also.

The Eightieth Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of California, October 8-11, 1929. Gustav A . Hutaff, Grand Master.
Connecticut :
The Grand Master reports peace, harmony and prosperity prevailing among the Lodges. Through District Meetings, he established
contact with 512 of the 572 Lodges.
He analytically discusses different kinds of Masonic Clubs, finds
some of them beneficial and others detrimental.
Rev. Dr. Tully C. Knoles, President of College of the Pacific,
delivered an interesting oration .
·

There is a good report by the Educational Committee, wh=ch
treats on Masonic courtesy, the legend of Hiram, and twenty-four
other pertinent subjects. There is also a report on Masonic History,
admirably written. The Berkeley Club House presented a glowing
report, and the employment bureau made encouraging reports.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is by. Past
Grand Master Jesse M. Whited, and is a classic of topical writing, but
not a review. Any page of it would ornament a Masonic periodical.
It is courteous and fraternal from end to end.
Florida:
Comprehensive as well as concise was the message presented by
Grand Master Hutaff, which seemed to radiate real fraternalism, as
he reviewed his activities of the year, and which indicated a determined purpose to maintain high Masonic ideals.
For the ninth time R. W. Brother Jesse M. Whited presented the
report of the Committee on Correspondence, which is of the topical
variety, and without doubt the best of its kind. It reveals much
reading and thought an d is a valuable addition to the Masonic literature of the year. He found little of general interest in the Florida
proceedings.
Indiana:
The Grand Master gives a very interesting account of his visit
to the Hawaiian Islands.
A comprehensive topical report on Correspondence is submitted
by Brother Jesse M. Whited.

Report of Board .of Control shows far reaching acthrities.
Report of Educational Committee states that they feel their
report will show normal progress. They have sowed the seed and it
is evidently spro4ting. We trust that all such committees, in spite
of occasional discoµragement, will doggedly continue their work:. I.n
time, it will bear more and more fruit.

Kansas:
Their efficient and faithful Grand Secretary, Brother John
Whicher, submitted another of his interesting and complete reports.
The Committee on · Masonic H istory presented an interesting
report and wc believe will be of interest to our own readers:

Report of the Committee on Masonic History shows live work.
Louisiana:
District of Columbia.:
The Grand Master says .it is a pleasure and a privilege to execute
the duties. Bravo!
He reports the Masonic Homes at Decato and Covina, both of
which are banner Homes. To praise them would be like trying to
paint the lily.
·

As evidence of the Grand Master's activity, he states that he was
able to contact with 512 Lodges in 105 of the Masonic districts.
Brother Jesse M. Whited makes his a topical review of Grand
Lodge Proceedings which is instructive as "'ell as interesting and is
of great educational value.

113

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Maine:
. '
The report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, indicates that
these splendid institutions are . carefully managed ·and soundly
financed.
"The annual oration" this year was given by Rev.-Brotlwr 'fully
C. ·Knoles, President of the College of the Pacific, which was
largely devoted to Masonry's support of the Public School System. in
America, and he urges the Fraternity to an active . s~p~ort of a
Federal Department of Education and a National Universi.t y. Maine
looks a little askance at this proposition a·s a legitimate activity of
the Order, although probably 90 per cent of our members' would
favor it, as enlightened citizens. Brother Tully's address gives food
for thought and in its earnest advocacy of these specific measures is
courteous and scholarly. California is tremendously active in this
respect, which is indicated not only by this oration and 'the Grand
Master's reference to it, but a twelve-page report of a special committee having the matter in charge indicates aggressive endeavor to
do something especially during Public Schools Week, for these
measures.
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence is the ninth
report of M. W . Brother Jesse M. Whited. He deals, under the
topical variety of review, with such mooted matters as Cipher Codes,
Masonic Education, Coordinate Bodies, the Mission of Masonry and
Masonic Trials. Illuminating discussion is given under these various
heads, .Brother Whited balancing the pro"s and cons in a fair and
equitable way. Maine is frequently cited in its attitude on various
matters. Quotations are generously frequent from your Maine Correspondent's report of last year. It is a valuable document which
Brother Whited has given us and as we said last year, it is the
despair of your Maine reviewer to give it adequate praise or comprehensive attention. There is a good deal of bread of Masonry in
this report.
Maryland:
The Grand Masters of this Grand· Jurisdiction do not seem to
take their duties and responsibilities lightly.
We have observed before that they show far more than usual
activity during their terms of office.
.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits the Correspondence Report,
which is in topical form. This form of Review has its advantages.
J t gives ready and convenient reference to one trying to arrive
at the Masonic trend on any subject.

Michigan:
The Grand Master writes wisely concerning the character and
value of "clubs" and of "Financing Masonic Temples."
The. Grand Master condescends to discuss what some . consider
trivial matters, but matters which are really of the highest importance.
Rev. Dr. Knoles delivered his annual oration. It covers a trifle
over six pages and is far and away above the usual oration in
quality. It is · not mere words; it is stimulating thought clothed in
words.
The report of the Board of Control is of interest.
A topical review, by Brother Jesse M. Whited, in which Michigan
receives generous mention. A splendid piece of work.

112

New Hampshire:
For ten years now the Lodges of California have annually been
observing Public Schools Week. The one here reported would indicate that there is a growing interest in this special endeavor.
The Grand Secretary reported an increase of 4,350 members. For
the present day that looms up as a high figure.
The five Employment Bureaus were busy and did great things
for many who merely were hunting for opportunity.
Minimum Lodge dues were continued at nine dollars. That is
one of the reasons why Freemasons in California can do things.
The Correspondence is of a special California variety, which no one
in the U.S. A. in any way attempts to imitate. It is commonly called
the topical way of writing this document. Cheney, of New Hampshire,
makes bold to call it the WHITED style. It has its virt ue.s; it has
its faults. This, of course, is merely our individual opinion-worth
very little. But, we do know that it takes immense time to do it
the WHITED way.
New Hampshire gets into its pages only through comments that
we made in our own report. Most of the topics are made up of
excerpts from the Grand Master 's address or the Correspondent's
report.
New Jersey:
California's famous energy-producing climate has no be~ter proof
than its Grand Masters' activities. To handle the work. and do the
traveling they do would force one of us to divide himself into parties.
Grand Master Gustav A. Hutaff's record of work and travels through
the great distances of his jurisdiction exemplify this.

114

REPORT 'oN CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Included in this thought is the annual oration delivered by the
Rev. Brother Dr. Tully C. Knoles, President of the College of the
Pacific. It is a fine thoughtful address of a scholar and broad citizen.
.Perhaps one can obtain a picture of the man· by this sentence: " Masonic philosophy should be interested in life and in problems of
human living, much more than in eso.teric speculation."
Brief views of big works include a state-wide empl<'.>yment system;
an Educational Committee that sent out 19,000 pieces of literature to
Lodges; an excellent History Committee whose existence was continued for another year at this session; the great work of the Masonic
homes of the jurisdiction; the extens.ion of the library; all this accompanied by the active functioning of offic~rs and c'ommittees in
wide areas.
.
The Committee on Correspondence report, by Jesse M. Whited:
again is arranged by subject matter rather than jurisdictions and is
admirably selected.
New York:
California is justly proud of her share in the building of the
Washington Memorial. The expectation is that by 1932 her contribution will be in excess of $150,000.00.
The Board of Control presents interesting statistics regarding
Masonic Relief. Boards of Relief and · Employment Bureaus may
make application for reimbursement on all aid extended.
The gathering of material for the early Masonic History of
California is progressing encouragingly. Many interesting facts have
been rescued from the past, some 'of ·which are presented in the
report of the Commi.ttee on Masonic History.
The Committee on Returns submit interesting figu~es regarding
the records.
A full and very in_teresting account is _given of. the Tenth Annual
observance of .the ·Pubiic Schools Week by the- Masons of_California.
In the nine years that Brother Jesse M. Whited has been reviewing Proceedings he has found that in some way various problems
arise contemporaneously in most if not all American Jurisdictions.
Some hold over longer in one place than in another. _ Besides. there
are a few which "like the poor, will be always with us." B y his plan
the subject~ happ~ning .to be to the fore ·are set · out as headings
under which are distributed extracts from reports, addresses and resolutions, credited to the Grand Lodge from the Proceedings of which
the gleanfngs were derived. By tliis method,' employed as it . is with
rare discrimination, dat~ are supplied whic.h wiil be found helpful by

115

committees, study clubs and speakers wrestling with those particular
topics. There are, besides, brief notes about individual Grand Lodges .
In his introductory chapter there appears timely comment on organizations which draw their membership from the Master Masons, which
we take the liberty to quote.
North <;:arolina:
California is the outstanding state in educatio~al matters. I ts
school system takes first rank among all the states as to both general
efficiency and the amount of money expended per capita. We find
revealed in this book before us one significan t factor contributing to
this enviable position in the enthusiasm with which Educational
Week is observed. It is recorded that large audiences were present
in al.most every place of observance ; this is not the first time of this
observance and it is therefore no novelty but a matter of custom.
U nder these circumstances the interest manifested is very remarkable. When this type of interest in education one the part of California Masonry is supplemented by the interest shown in the Masonic
and Knights Templar loan funds for stud ents, we perceive that much
really constructive work is being done.
California, for instance, shows a net gain for the year ending
July 31, 1929, of 4,350, which has no parallel in any eastern Grand
Lodge during · the same year.
One feature. of the report of the Committee o n Finance seems to
us to be worthy of imitation in every Grand Lodge. The California
committee gives us an analysis of the per capita tax paid by each
Lodge to the Grand Lodge upon its members.
We next read with interest the very excellent report of the
Committee on Correspondence, which is wonderfully well prepared by
Brother Jesse M. Whited. Brother Whited always writes a topical
report which we are compelled to state is the only topical report
reaching our desk that is done in an acceptable manner. We confess
that this writer's style has been an inspiration to us.
Although it may be in poor taste for us to do so we feel like
saying that certain writers have borrowed statistics from the North
Carolina book without telling where they got them, in contrast with
which is the fact that Brother Whited quotes some of the figures
with the following remark: "As usual the most complete set of
~ tati s tics compiled an"to be found in the Report of J. Edward Allen,
Correspondent for North Carolina. We have 5pace o nly for those
applicable to California."

116

REPORT l)N CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

117

Pennsylvania:

Philippine Islands:

Assumii:ig that Grand Secretary Whicher is responsible' for the
"make-up'.' and to some extent the preparation of reports of committees, we offer him our congratulations on the results. attained in
the publication of Grand Lodge proceedings.

California .is a jurisdictio n in which we seem to take great interest
in. r.eviewing, ~ particularl:y as California is our mother Grand Lodge,
as far as .the Lodg11s organizing the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands is concerned.
.Gr;and Master Hutaff showed in his address and actions that he ·fulLy· realized the .largeness of the task which was h is as Grand
Master. · He came into touch with 512 of their Lodges, an average of
ten a week. Some work!
Their Masonic Homes and their educational program are the
big things Qf the work of the state, together with what is known as
Public Schools Week, which is s ponsored by the Grand Lodge and
the constituent Lodges.
The Grand Master attended the conference of Grand Masters and
the George Washington .Memorial meeting and makes. .a report in
full, as well as a very . interesting report of his visit to the Hawaiian
Islands.
There is so much in this volume that one does not know where
to stop.
The Grand Oration this year was by the President of the College of the Pacific, Brother Tully C. Knoles, D. ·D ., his subject
being "Education From Masonic Standpoint." I t is, from our point
of view, the best we have read this year.
The review is by Brother Jesse M. Whited, who perhaps presents the most illuminating .review of the year. He uses the topical
type of review, referring to the different Grand Lodges in the subheads about which he may be writing.
The Philippine Islands' volume received six reparate quotations
and he gives us credit for enabling him to cite events of the Masonic
world which he does not find in other Proceedings.

On the last day of the Communication "a feature o'f the morning
session, most pleasing to the Grand Secretary, was the presentation
to him, at the hands of the Grand Master, of a gold button in commemoration of Brother Whicher's fifty years of service as a Master
Mason."
Tennessee:
Two excellent Masonic Homes are maintained, one at Covina
for children and the other at Decato for old people.
Jesse M. Whited gives his ninth fraternal review in the 11sual
topical form, much of it quite interesting. Tennessee escaped· "The
Bouquets and Brickbats," but got a little piece of "Olla Podrida"
which, he says, means a mixture.
Vermont:
The message of the Grand Master is, as · the Committee says,
"a succinct and brief but sufficiently full and comprehensive report."
He treats the affairs of Grand Lodge from the point of view of a
business man.
The Committee on Grand Secretary's Report . has some good
advice on the subject of collection of dues.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is the · ninth by
Brother Jesse M. Whited. It is in topical form and is a valuable
Masonic document. We would like to excerpt much from it but can
give only a few gems.
Wisconsin:
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence is again the
work of Brother Jesse M. Whited, who still uses the topical form · of
report, and gets as much out of its as it is possible to do with that
form of a review. He publishes among his selections what he is
pleased to denominate as "Bouquets and Brickbats," in which he
collects references to his report and actions of his Grand Lodge,
complimentary or otherwise. It shows that the flowers are as numerous as the other missiles, which is gratifying to a reviewer. We
have never hurled either one just for the sake of throwing something,
but would much prefer, if the occasion warrants, to throw a bouquet
than a fragment of brick.

Saskatchewan:
The report of the Committee on Jurisprudence is most instructive.
A large number of people from Saskatchewan and the Praitie
Provinces generally visit the lower part of California, in particular
· during the winter, and this makes the proceedings of Masonic life In
California more than usually interesting, as our members who travel
from Saskatchewan do · avail themselves of the provilege of making
fraternal visits. Such visits of our citizens to California, are perhaps,
much more numerous, at leas t so far as pleasure is concerned, than to
any other state of the Union.

118

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

South Australia:
In the Report of the Committee on Correspondence several
topics that are at present receiving the attention of the Craft are.
dealt with, but many of these are purely American and in one subject
only is South A ustralia quoted. Under the heading of "Presentation
of Bible" is made a suggestion which is worth reproducing.

OLLA-PODRIDA
Under this topic we have endeavored to collect the activities of
the various Grand Lodges during the past year that may be of "interest to the readers in general.
As heretofore we have made liberal use of the excellent Correspondence Reports of New York, Philippine Islands and other
Jurisdictions, where the events of the Masonic World are set forth
in brief outlines.
As we have received no Proceedings published in a foreign
language, the excerpts regarding those jurisdictions are taken from
the Reviewers who are blessed with the ability to read the language
in question and include the data in their Reports.
Alabama :
By invitation of the Governor, the State Superintendent of E<lucation, the State Commander of the Ame~ican Legion, and the
President of the Alabama Education Association. the Grand Lodge
was represented at a meeting called to consider plans for improving
the public schools of the state.
The Masonic Home shelters 340 children and sixty-five older
people, " the largest number in the history of the institution." Ninetyone of the children attend high school, and 162 arc in the grammar
school. The latter are being taught in a building located on the
Home grounds and owned by the Craft.
Arkansas:
According to the Pension and Relief Board, sixty Master -Masons
and thirty widows of Master Masons received grants during the year,
aggregating $13,663.00.
At present there are sixty-five children taken care of in the Ward
built by the Arkansas Craft at the State Sanatorium at Boonsville.
Tw.o hundred <J.nd eighty-eight children, boys and girls, have had the
advantage of the building since this was opened. Several of them
attended Masonic Tuberculosis Children's School at the Sanatorium

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

119

and after graduation took their places in their· home schools, with
credit to themselves and to the Masonic School.
The Masonic Orphans Home at Batesville had 135 children in
residence during the year.
On the Grand Master's recommendation recognition was extende<l to the Grand· Orient of Roumania.
Colorado:
The Grand Master ordered the balance of the Colora<lo Soldier
Masons' War Relief . Fund, amounting to $46,622.42, to be turne<l
over to the Colorado Masons Benevolent Fund Association.
Two Negro " Grand Lodges" operating in Colorado were enjoined by court decree, obtained by Grand Lodge, from including in
their titles the words "Mason," "Freemason," "Masonic," "Free and
Accepted Masons," and others w hich might deceive the public with
regard to the Prince Hall and Hiram bodie~; the members and
lodges of these organizations also wer e restrained permanently from
"using, displaying and wearing any and all of the Masonic emblems
and insignia of Freemasonry." I n Colorado the use of the specified
titles, with emblems and insignia is by law the exclusive right of
the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
Connecticut:
Attention is called to the disadvantages to Grand Lodge of a
resolution adopted in 1879, exempting from Lodge and Grand Lodge
dues any Brethren who have been in good standing for thirty years.
He shows that, as a result, more than ten per cent of the
Craft's entire membership neither pay the per capita tax for the
support of Grand Lodge nor do they contribute to the support of the
Masonic Home.
.
The membership in the Masonic Home and Hospital numbered
246 adults. Relief dispensed by th e Charity Foundation outside the
home was distributed among forty-four adults and ninety-three children. The incr~ase in the number of those taken care of by the
Charity Foundation has been fifty-six during the year . The average
per capita cost was $501.10. The Endowment Fund of the Charity
Foundation now is $341,227.70. Several new legacies were added
during the year.
District of Columbia :
The Masonic and Eastern Star Home has ninety-nine residents,
fifty children and forty-nine adults. The Grand M aster believes that
the children ought to be trained in useful and profitable occupations.

120

121

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The Field Day of the Worshipful Masters' Association yielded li
profit of $16,261.03, which sum was turned over to the Home for 'it~
Endowment Fund.

members. That his advice has been heeded is shown by the fact that
thirty-seven of the present eighty Secretaries were chosen from.
among the Past Masters.

The Grand Master suggests that, in addition to the continuance
of the annual Field Day, the Fraternity and its allied bodies agree
upon ohe day each year for "an outing of some kind where old friendships· may be renewed and new ones formed."
.
Florida:
Finding that many Brethren immediately after rece1vmg the .
Master Mason degree enter other organizations which require the
basis of the Master Mason degree as qualification for acceptance, the
Grand Master decided to try an experiment. It was announced in
the form of an edict issued to all the Lodges. In substance it transferred the actual presentation of a leather apron from the first degree
to the time when the new Brother shall have received the Master
Mason degree and passed an examination in open Lodge proving his
proficiency in the work. The "presentation" in the first degree is to
be a symbolical act only.
Another edict ordered and directed that no Brother may become
a member of any organization predicating its membership upon good
standing in the Lodge, unless such organization shall first have
secured the approval of the Grand Lodge of Florida.
Brethren who already had joined organizations not previously
approved by Grand Lodge, are ordered to withdraw or become "subject to trial and expulsion from the Lodge."
Georgia:
Columbian Lodge No. 7 of Columbus celebrated its hundredth
anniversary by dedicating a "Monument of Memory" in the form of
an ornamental sun dial to the founders of the Lodge. The monument
occupies a prominent place on the Court House Square at Columbus.
L~ans granted from the Education Loan Fund of Grand Lodge
helped to keep forty-eight Georgia boys and girls in college.
Idaho:
The Grand Master recommends that the Lodge present a copy
of the Holy Bible to every new initiate.
The Grand Secretary has been advising Lodges for several years
to select for their Secretaries Past Masters or other experienced

Illinois:
The total membership of the Illinois Masonic Home at Sullivan
on October 1, 1929, was 234 of whom approximately 37 per cent are
confined to the Hospital.
The membership of the Illinois Masonic Orphans Home at La
Grange on September 30, 1929, was 237. The maintenance cost per
child was $455.00 for the year.
Indiana:
The membership in the Masonic Home totals 429 personS--:206
adults and 223 children. The membership is made up of Masons,
wives, widows, members of the Eastern Star, and orphans of Master
Masons.
Iowa:
The Grand Master finds that some Lodges are too ready to turn
over to the Trustees of the Charity Fund calls which come to them
for help. He believes that every Lodge should pay at least a portion
of the amount necessary for the relief of any needy one who has a
claim upon the Lodge. One point he mentions in connection with
this subject deserves wider recognition as a caution 'to be observed
by Lodges everywhere. He points out that often there is carelessness in the manner of reinstating Brethren who have been suspended
for a number of years. The same censure applies to the election to
membership of Brethren who have carried their demits for extended
periods of time. Often such Brethren have not contributed anything
to ·the cause of Masonry during the best earning period of their
lives and then, when doubts arise as to their condition in approaching
old age, they hasten to regain a standing in the Craft, usually with
the thought in mind that in case of misfortune assistance will be
forthcoming, or at least that they will be assured a fraternal burial.
The Grand Master cites one case where reinstatement was effected
after the Brother for whom the application was made had been dead
for six months. Back of the latter act was the intention to foist upon
Grand Lodge through the Lodge, the "care of a needy and really
deserving family, a widow and three children." Such experiences are
not confined to Iowa. This is the first time we have seen the matter
referred to by a Grand Master in his Annual Address.
What is referred to as the "Iowa plan" is the contributing from
the Grand Charity F und toward the maintenance in their home

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

environment of those who need fraternal help. Those who need con-·
stant physical care are taken care of at the Grand Lodge Sanitarium
at Bettendorf.
Among the beneficiaries of the Grand Charity Fund are thirtyfive families with a total of one hundred children, to whom were
contributed $10,749.87 during the year. Other amounts were added
by the local Lodges. The trustees comment:
"No more worthy use can be made of money than by helping the
needy father and mother to care for and educate their children. The
public institution for this purpose has its place, but a modest home
presided over by a good father and mother is a better place in which
to rear children than any institution. No phase of our work is bringing better results than the assistance rendered the families of these
youngsters."
Thirty-one persons remain in residence at the Sanitarium.
The Grand Lodge of Iowa provides uniform identification cards
for all Lodges. The stock used is a safety paper with a Masonic design on the face. The Grand Master says that by means of the safety
paper the alteration of the card is made more difficult, adding that
"this practice has become common-and if not checked will render
a card of no use even to its lawful ow.er."
Kentucky:
Past Grand Master John H. Cowles presented to Grand Lodge
$10,000.00 to form the basis of a Cowles Benevolent Fund, for the'
support of the Craft's charities. The amount is to be invested and
kept intact together with the income from it for a period of fifty
years. At the end of the fifty-year period the total amount shall continue to remain intact and constitute the Cowles Benevolent Fu.nd.
All income then may be used, in the discretion of Grand Lodge, 'for
the support of its benevolent works and charities.
The number of residents in the Masonic Widows and Orphans
Home number 606-forty-five widows, 273 boys and 288 girls.
The Old Masons' Home has sixty-nine Brethren in residence,
their average age being seventy-five and one-half years. The cost per
capita for the year was only $289.83.
Louisiana:
Louisiana Relief Lodge No. 1 is doing a most benevolent work.
Aid was given to 450 brethren hailing from various ·jurisdictions,
totaling over $4,800.00. The refunds collected amounted to only about

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

123

$1,000.00. The total overhead expenses for handling the .affairs of
the Lodge including bookkeeping was $330.00 for the year.
·The Masonic Home for children is filled to capacity. Additional
housing facilities are needed. Under conditions as they are, the work
of im.provement will have to be deferred.
Massachusetts:·
. Grand Master Walker of Connecticut, when called upon, gave a
brief sketch of Masonry in the early days of Connecticut, showing
how in Colonial times Massachusetts and Connecticut were bound
together by many ties. When the news of the battle of Concord and
Lexington reached New Haven, he related, the Second Company of
the Governor's Foot Guard demanded powder and ball to take with
them to Cambridge. Their request being refused by the Selectmen,
the determined Guardsmen, by a show of force, got posse~sion of the
keys and ammunition. Since then, once a year the present members
of the old military company, of which M.'.W.'.Brother Walker is
the Captain, march from the Armory to the Green in New Haven
and, after attending church service, proceed to the city Hall and
rehearse what took place in 1776. Demand is made for the keys of
the powder house, it js refused, the Guardsmen declare . they will
seize the powder if the keys are not forthcoming, and all they ask is
produced. Many of the Guard of 1776 were members of Hiram Lodge
No. 1 of New Haven. That Lodge received its charter from the
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts in 1759. With the old military company marched Brother Israel Putnam to Cambridge and afterward
became a Major General in the Continent:! Army.
"We are a modest group, we Past Grand Masters, but even we
find the limit of humility. We can stand it when a man takes out his
watch and looks at it while we are speaking, but we do object when
after looking at it, he puts it to his ear to see if it is going."
Michigan:
Because of frequent complaints that Michigan Brethren apply
for and receive financal aid in other Jurisdictions, such moneys not
always being repaid by the Lodges to which the recipients of them
belong, the Grand Master issued a circular letter to all Grand Jurisdictions in fraternal relations with Michigan, explaining the rule
obtaining in his State: The Board of Control of Outside Relief funds
will not be responsible for reimbursing Lodges, bureaus, or committees in other Juri~dictions unless authorization is first obtained
to adva~~e relief.

124

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Minnesota:
The total number of residents in the Home was dghty:'.:1,1ine ·at
the close of the year.
The Grand Master attended the "Educatiorial Nlght" ·~f 1'.JH1versity Lodge, an annual event which takes place during "Sch6olmen's Week," when the teachers of Michigan assemble at the University. The membership of the. Lodge is made. up of Masons who
~re in some way connected with the University of Michigan ~ither as
instructors or teachers.
Missouri:
On recommendation of the Committee. on Jurisprudence a resolution was adopted authorizing and directing the incoming Grand
Maste~ a?d his successors to take such legal means as appear proper
and w1thm the power of the Grand Lodge of Missouri to stop and
prohibit, by suit or other legal means, the use of the word Masonic
or any of the symbols, emblems or particular words or phrases of
the Fraternity in connection with commercial enterprises of any kind,
except such use shall first have been duly authorized by Grand
Lodge.
For the second time in its history the Grand Lodge of Missouri
has been served by a Grand Master whose father had preceded. him
in that high office, the Committee on Grand Master's Address reports ..
Of the eleven children reported last year as being assisted by
funds administered by the Committee on Fatherless Children of
France, five are continuing to receive aid. As these five will be sixteen years old in 1930, the work in this direction will then have come
to an end.
•
Nevada:
Seven young people enjoyed the benefits of the Educational Loan
Fund during the year.
Grand Lodge adopted a set of tests to be applied to Jurisdictions
asking for recognition and fraternal relationship. They are substantially the same as those established by New York some yeats
since.
New Jersey:
Lodges contemplating the erection of a meeting hall are to be
required to obtain permission from the Grand Master, submitting to
him the plans of the building, the scheme for· financing and 'p ro- .
vision for later maintenance and support.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

125

The number of residents at the Masonic Home was 188 of whom
forty-six are ~hilclren. The per capita cost for the year was $657.63.
While most of the stories related to negroes were told as only a
Southerner can .do it, Brother Riley wove in also a conv~rsation bet~een an Am'er,k:an and an Irishman:
"Are you from Dublin?"
"Ah, ah; no siree, I am not a Catholic."
"Well, then you are from Belfast, I presume?"
"Ah, no indeed, I am not a Protestant."
"Pray, where are you from and what are you?"
"I am from the Emerald Isle where the Catholics are trying to
burn all the Protestants and the Protestants are trying to . cut the
throats of all the Catholics. My Lord, I wish that they were all
atheists so that we might live and love each other like Christians."
1

New .York:
A Permanent War Memorial Building to the American Expeditionary Forces is being constructed in the heart of Paris, France,
by the American Legion. It will be named "Pershing Hall" · after
General John J. Pershing, who commanded our forces in the World
War. A large dwelling house has been purchased, and the moneys
required for its con~ersion into a memorial have been raised as well
as a considerable portion of an endowment fund for its maintenance.
To complete this fund invitations .have been extended to the Young
Men's Christian Associations, the Knights of Columbus, the Salvation Army, the Jewish Welfare Board, the American Red Cross and
the Masonic Fraternities to establish particular memorials in the
building. Each memorial will consist of a room which will take the
name of the donor and in which will be perpetuated in sculpture or
bronze tablets or other forms, the services and sacrifices of the men
of each particular organization.
All of the other organizations receiving the invitation, with perhaps one exception, have accepted.
North Carolina:
The Grand Master of North Carolina's reference to the so-called
"esoterics" suggests that in North Carolina, too, pseudo-sages seek
to make the Lodges serve as an outlet for their "discoveries" and
dream stuff. Of one speaker he says that this one, as far as he himself was concerned, "started his lectures five feet over my head and
got · higher and higher as he went along." The Craft the Grand
Master adds, "was being served plank steak, when in fact we should

126

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

have been given a milk and toast diet ... we were beginning at the
top when we. should have begun at the bottom."
The Freemasons of North Carolina can claim the proud distinction of having been the ·pioneers in orphanage work in their state
thereby setting an example which has been emulated since by thirty~
two organizations representing fraternal orders and churches in that
Jurisdiction. The maintenance cost per child at the Oxford Orphanage was $372.68 which, the Grand Master reports, is somewhat higher
than that of other orphanages iri the State because the institution
operates its own school; hospital; vocational departments and ot.h er
educational features ·which prepare . the children, when they are
graduated, to en'ter upon a professional, commercial or other career,
adequately equipped to make their way in the world. He adds that
.?e "would rather see a still higher per capita investment ·i f s·till greater
results could be accomplished."
The Educational Loan Fund of North Carolina represents North
Carolina's outstanding contribution toward the benevolent under.takings of the Masonic Craft. From it boys and girls have obtained
loans enabling them to pursue advanced courses of education and
to prepare for useful occupations in life. We have referred to the
·excellent work often before this. During the past year aid was
extended to 175 students in thirty-one different colleges in North
Carolina. Seven hundre·d students have been benefited 'by the operation of the Fund. during the past eight years. The contribution of
Grand Lodge · during this period has been $21,500.00. The Grand
Royal Arch Chapter gave an even · larger amount-$23,000.00. The
·next largest amount came fro'm the Scottish Rite which joined the
movement in · 1924 and in the six years since has contributed $18,000.00.
To the Grand Commandery are credited $12,500.00. ·At the present
·time, it appears, Grand Lodge, Grand Chapter and the Scottish Rite
contributed $3.000.00 · each year and the Commandery $1,000.00 per
year.
Ohio :
The Trustees of the Ohio Masonic Home report that since the
erection of what is known as the Rickly Memorial the number of
applicants for admission to the Home has increased enormously. An
addition of eighty-two rooms had to be made to supply adequate
·space. The cost of the addition was $185,000.00.
Oklahoma :
Oklahom·a maintains two Masonic Homes, one for the aged and
one for the children. The combined' membership is 181. The salary

127

of the practical nurse at the home for the aged is paid by the Grand
Chapter of the East.e rn Star. The same organization also has a representative· at the Methodist Hospital at Guthrie where all severe
cases of the Homes <1re taken and major operations performed.
O reg on:
The Masonic Board of Relief extended aid to 649 persons during
the year. The. total amount allotted was $12,128.02, an increase of
about $2,000 .over 1928. Free hospitalization has been furnished at
the Seth L. Pope Masonic Endowed Bed to many Brethren-178
days in all. The Field Secretary paid fraternal visits to 812 Brethren
confined in hospitals and 169 in their homes. He conducted fortyseven funerals and attended sixty-eight other Masonic funerals.
The Committee on Child Welfare reports that arrangements
have been completed for placing children " in private homes where
they may have home training and surroundings." Nine children were
cared for by that arrangement during the year. Careful study is made
of each individual case before action is taken "ent irely in the interest
of the children."
Pennsylvania:
The records of our Grand Secretary disclose a membership of
115,460 in 1914 and a membership of 212,756 in 1928.
There was an increase in the financial resources of Grand Lodge,
over the period 1914-1929 in the resources from $4,216,709.18 to approximately $18,000,000.00, independent of the resources of the subordinate Lodges.
Rhode Island :
The Trustees o f the Educational Fund reports that eighty
scholarships have been granted, of which thirty-two were awarded
during the year. Fifty-eight were given to young men and twenty-two
to young women. Twenty-four of these students attend Brown University at Providence; eight, Pembroke College; seventeen, the
Rhode Island State College; three, Boston University; two, Harvard;
two, Colgate; two, Middlebury; two, Northeastern; two, Simmons; ·
and one each, Dartmouth, Syracuse, Amherst, Maryland, Antioch,
\Vashington, Columbia, Massachusetts Agricultural, Barnard, Pratt
Institute, Sargent, St. Lawrence, Elmira, Gordon, and San Diego.
The fathers of the students represent •twenty-seven different Lodges.
South Dakota:
"During the past few months we have had considerable to say
about a Grand Lodge Program. We have felt that each year should

128

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

be one of constructive service to our Lodges, our Brethren and for
that matter to all of the people in this Jurisdiction. During the
coming year we hope, with. your consent, to establish first of all the
District Deputy System. This will give us an organization second tci
none in its possibilities. We are going to ask each Lodge to observe
a Grand Lodge Night. Do not lose sight of the fact that this is your
Grand Lodge. You are a part of the organization and we want you
to know all about our activitie·s. We expect to have several Fellowship Tours and Booster Communications. We are going to ask each
Lodge to plan a St. John's Day Celebration. We are going to encourage every Lodge to have a Past Master's night. We feel that
each Lodge or District should have a Past Master's Association. You
will be interested in reading an account of the formation of such an
Association by Redfield Lodge No. 34. This description appeared in
the May issue of the Bulletin. We expect to develop a Speaker's
Bureau. We intend to get in touch and keep in touch with every
Lodge in South Dakota. In short, we expect to have a real state-wide
organization."

Wyoming. The meeting took place on the Fourth of July in 1862,
attended by over two hundred Masons hailing from many states of
the Union, from the Philippine Islands, Alaska, Scotland, and other
countries.
A resolution was adopted authorizing the Trustees of the Home
Fund to collect from a Lodge asking relief for one of its members
an amount not to excee.d 25 per cent of the moneys necessary to take
care of the situation. In other words t he Lodge must shoulder part
of the responsibility of the care of its members in distress.

Virginia:
Five hundred dollars were appropriated for the ·preservation of
the original mounument marking the grave of the illustrious American and Virginian, Edmund Randolph, who was aide-de-camp to
General George Washington during the Revolutionary War, Secretary of State of the United States, first Attorney General of the
United States, Governor of Virginia, and M.'.W.'.Grand Master of
Virginia.
Wisconsin:
An experience that rarely comes to any Grand Lodge, if it ever
did to one in the United States, was the installation of the Grand
Master-elect, M.'.W.' .Brother Frank Jenks, by his father, P.'.M.'.
W : .Brother Aldro Jenks, who was Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin in 1896. M.'.W.'.Brother John E. Langdon, who
acted as Grand Marshal, was Grand Master in 1922 and first appointed Brother Frank Jenks to office in Grand L odge.
During the past year, the Milwaukee County Lodges have been
conducting a series of speakers' contests, which have aroused a great
deal of interest in Masonic circles.
Wyoming:
The Grand Historian suggested that Grand L odge acquire title
to the site on which Independence Rock stands, as on that Rock was
held the first Masonic Lodge meeting in what is now the State of

129

Canada:
One thousand dollars· were contributed to the Welsh Miners'
Fund for relief in Old Wales across the sea. A like amount was sent
to Porto R ico to help the homeless and suffering there.
Plans were presented for the celebration of the seventy-fifth
anniversary of Grand Lodge.
Chile:
The Grand Master took steps to heal the rupture of fraternai
relationships between Peru and Chile, a rupture brought about more
than eight years before, by misunderstandings and rancors of' long
standing.
The Lodges continue with unabated enthusiasm to give their.
financial and direct support to the School Colonies, Scouts, Night
Schools, the Leagues of Poor Students, Free School Breakfasts, Playgrounds for Children, and other such meritorious undertakings. They
have taken the initiative in getting under way the People's University
of Work at Iquique, Anti-Alcohol Week in Valparaiso, the Scouts'
Hospital of Quilpue, a Society for Scholastic Welfare at V illa Alemana, the Day Nurseries (Casas C1mas) of San Felipe, and the Children's Reformatory of Concepcion.
Colombia:
St. John Baptist Day was observed by a most attractive and
inspiring program. The families of the Brethren attended. The sons
of Masons were adopted, in ceremonial form, as Luvetones. There
were discourses, recitations, orchestral and vocal music, presentations,
and all had a good time.
Cuba:
A uniformed National Masonic Band has been formed, which
has added greatly to the enjoyment of many of the Craft's festal
occasions.

130

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Many valuable additions have been made to the Masonic Libracy.
The government of the Republic has conceded to Grand Lodge a
· valuable piece of property in the city of Havana, in recognition of its
help in providing a ·school for children and a public library. The grant
was voted by the Cuban Congress with the hearty endorsement of
President General Gerardo Machado, Past Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of Cuba, who ~igned the bill conveying the property.
Aside from the school and library, a Masonic Temple will be built on
the property, a Palacio de la Masoneria, which will be headquarters of
Grand Lodge. The grant also partakes of the nature of an official
recognition by the Republic of Cuba of the National Masonry for the
latter's services in the promotion of the principles of the Cuban Constitution and the education of the people. "The author of the law by
which Grand Lodge obtained the land, is Dr. Antonio Bosch who is
not a Mason. Many other distinguished members of both Q.ouses of
Congress gave enthusiastic help to the project from a high regard for
the Fraternity, though they are not affiliated with it themselves.
One Lodge, with the cooperation of Grand Lodge, helps to maintain a Dental Dispensary for Children in the city of Camagiiey.
Another gave an ambulance to a Hospital.
La Misericordia is the outstanding benevolent institution maintained by Grand Lodge. It is the National Masonic Home and at
present has 180 residents. The property and equipment has b.e en
improved progressively. New pavilions have been erected from time
to time. The investment is estimated at $400,000.00. . A new small
edifice is under construction, which will be used as a Masonic Temple
where Masons of the city may hold meetings and where sessions may
be held to bring comfort and joy to the Brethren in the Home.
England:
The Grand Lodge Library and Museum reports a number of
valuable ac.quisitions, among them a copy of the Old Charges identified as of about 1720, and a Masonic Catechism engrossed on parchm ent of about the same date.
The Foundation Stone of the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre, at
Stratford-on-Avon, was laid by the Pro Grand Master, M.'.W.".
arother the Rt. Hon. Lord Ampthill, with Masonic Honors, on July
2, 1929.
Guatemala:
.
The Grand Master issued a decree calling upon the _Lodges to
arrange annually, on either the 14th or 15th of September, a dignified
celebration of the anniversary of the Independence of Central

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

131

America, so as to record and exalt the patriotism of the Masons of
Guatemala, demonstrating their love of their country and their constant solicitude for her prosperity.
Manitoba:
The Committee on Benevolence reports that grants were made
to eighty-five, among them thirty men, thirty-five women, and twenty
children. The average amount paid out each month was $802.10,
making a total of $9,625.24 for the year.
All Lodges have been asked to file the Library short accounts of
their history.
New Brunswick:
The Grand Master reports that on Jan1,1ary 26, 1929, the beautiful Masonic Temple, at St. John, which served as headquarters of
Grand Lodge, was totally destroyed by fire. The structure was erected
in 1879 and contained a valuable irreplaceable collection of portraits,
dress regalia, and other cherished possessions. Steps were taken to
provide for the erection of a new Masonic Temple.
Norway :
For over ninety years Norway was united with Sweden until she
became an independent Kingdom in 1905. During the greater part of
this time the Norwegian Lodges worked under the Grand Lodge of
Sweden, as a Provincial Grand Lodge which on May 10, 1891, transformed itself into an independent autonomous National Grand Lodge.
Only one Stated Communication is held each year, on March
22nd, and is known as the Great Feast of the Order.
The Norwegian Brethren are not permitted to be identified with
any other Masonic or soi-disant Masonic body. Candidates belonging
to any Secret Society known to be of a Masonic type, are not admitted.
Fuller accounts of the history, organization and operation of the
National Grand Lodge of Norway were given in the New York
Foreign Correspondence reports of 1928 (page 225) and 1929 (page
146).
New South Wales:
The Board of Benevolence dispensed during the year £8,934 for
relief of needy Brethren and widows of Brethren.
The Masonic Convalescent Home at Camden has had in residence forty-five Brethren during the year, making a total of 677 since
its erection in 1889.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

132

133

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

There· are in residence at the William Thompson Masonic Schools
at Baulkham Hills, 112 boys and 134 girls; and at the Masonic Hostel,
ninety-four boys. A new bungalow was erected and furnished to
· accommodate 24 girls. Mavis Cliff, one of the girl pupils, was
awarded and presented with the Bronze Medal of the Royal Humane
Society for her bravery in saving a boy from drowning.
Tl).ere being a .surplus of over £8,000 in hand from the Schools
Maintenance Fund, the Council of the William Thompson Masonic
Schools was authorized to erect and furnish a bungalow for boys at a
cost not to exceed £3,300.
..
The Grand Master in reporting what he had seen and heard
refers with enthusiasm particularly to the Masonic Schools and
Homes established by the Brethren of New South Wales, under in-.
spiration coming from Past Grand Master Thompson. M.' .W.'.
Brother Stumm explains 300 children are educated in those Homes
which have grounds with an area of ap.p roximately 300 acres of very
good land. In connection with the' institution, he says, a welfare
committee has been constituted to find employment for the children
as they attain the age of sixteen years, and to keep in close touch
with them and the people with whom they live during the succeeding
critical years, and supplement their earnings by sufficient sums to
enable them to take care of themselves. A fete given by the Craft, in
a few days, providing funds netting £9,000 for the welfare committee's
work. Physicians, dentists, hairdressers, cinematograph operators, ·
motor drivers and owners, are taking a keen interest and regularly ·
give voluntary service to the children.
New Zealand:
Six thousand seven hundred and ninety-five pounds were paid out
in annuities from the Widows and Orphans and Aged Masons Fund.
Loans granted from the Special War Benevolent Fund aggregated
£1,040. £1,095 were paid out in grants to forty-two needy persons.
Aid was extended to two widows from funds secured by general
appeals, to the amount of £1,744.
Brother F. S. Potter of Auckland presented to Grand Lodge a
portion of land slightly over six acres for Masonic Homes for necessitous Freemasons and their wives, so that aged couples might live
together rent free during the remainder of their lives. He also offered .
to erect two small cottages on the property to start the plan under
way.
Panama:
St. John's Day in June and October 12th, anniversary of the Discovery of America by Columbus, which is dedicated to Universal

Brotherhood by the Code of the Panama Craft, were the two festivals
celebrated, as provided by the Constitution.
Peru:
Per.u is in fraternal relations with twenty-one Grand Lodges of
the United St~te.s, five of Canada, three of Australia; eighteen of
European Jurisdictions, among them England Scotland Ireland
Alpina (Switzerland), Holland, France (Natio~al G.'.L.:.), Spai~
G.'.L.'.), Greece, Bulgaria, Jugoslavia, Turkey, Vienna; G.'.L.'.of
the Philippine Islands, National G.'.L.'.of Egypt, and most of the
Grand Jurisdictions of Central and South America.
Porto Rico:
T~e only Grand Lod~es in the United States which have not yet
established fraternal relations are Rhode Island, Georgia, Minnesota,
and South Carolina, according to the Grand Master's report. Most of
the Grand Lodges of the British Empire, thirty-six European Jurisdictio~s, the National Grand Lodge of Egypt (Mohamed Ali), and
practically all the Latin-American Jurisdictions are in fraternal relations with Porto Rico.
Saskatchewan:
The Board of Benevolence expended during the year $10,617.50
for relief.
Scotland:
The various funds of Grand Lodge, at the close of the Masonic
year, aggregated close to £419,314.
South Australia:
In addition to the Memorial Library established at Freemasons'
Hall, in honor of the late Brother J. R. Robertson, his friends accumulated a fund amounting to £557 to establish "The Robertson
Scholarship" at the Preparatory School at Prince Alfred College
where that distinguished Brother was a teacher for many years.
'
On November 6, 1929, a number of Grand Lodge officers journey~d by ae.roplane to Yorketown for the purpose of taking part in
the mstallat1on ceremony that evening. This method of traveling is
understood to be the first of its kind to be undertaken in the Commonwealth of Australia for a Masonic ceremony.
Switzerland:
There is no let-up in anti-Masonic agitation. Through the public
press, through party organs and through clerical publications, deluded

135

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

fanatics a·n d crafty imposters vie with each other in throwing mud
at Freemasons and trying to excite the public against Masonic Lodges.
So far the prize appears to have been earned by a clerical publication,
Die Schildwache (Shield Guard), issued at Olten and edited by a
Roman Catholic priest. There, Freemasonry is exhibited as Devil
Worship, a sacriligeous Satanic cult, pictured in lurid colors as a
practice of weird gory rites and laboring frantically to place Satan on
the throne of Jehovah. The ·reverend Christian father spits venom
at every turn and has the wild fabrications of the notorious Leon
Taxi! of sixty years ago beaten by about that number of miles. It may
appear impossible that such silly stuff can be believed by anyone. But
prejudice is a blind voracious thing and swallows anything · that is
thrown into its trough. All in all the Swiss Craft appears to have
had as rough a time of it as did the Germari Craft under the ceaseless
firing from the General Ludendorff batteries. Silence seemingly
having ceased to be a virtue, the Grand Lodge Alpina encouraged a
literary campaign of defense, believing that at least the intelligent
reading public ought to be set right. It offered prizes for effective
expositions of the true principles and activities of Freemasonry.
Many essays were received and referred to a competent ·jury. which
reported that the first prize has been reserved for a possible future
award, and that three prizes of 500, 400 and 300 Swiss francs, respectively, were .accorded for one French and two German contributions.
In Zurich there is a Brockcnhaus ( House of Crumbs) which ·was
called into existence through the init:iative of Modestia Lodge, but is
not maintained under Masonic auspices, a separate society having
charge of the institution. Used household articles, wearing apparel
· and other useful objects are contributed by residents of the City,
which are then offered for sale at a nominal cost, for the benefit of
self-respecting .poor among the population. Whatever money balance
is left at the end of each year is distributed among the benevolent
institutions of the City.
Among the many valuable additions made · to the Grand Lodge
Library and Museum, reported for the Quarter ended March 1, 1930,
is a photograph of a Lodge Certific.a te, dated 1763, of "Lodge No.. 2
on the Registry of England" (Provincial), now St. John's Lodge No.
1 of New York City, to Edmund Leslie, M:.M:.

ity was given to the Lodges to use appropriate music in the Ceremonies. The W:.M:. of a Lodge is made responsible that no part
of the Ritual be left out and that no additions or alterations are
introduced.
Grand Lodge voted the establishment of a Centenary Fund for
the fitting celebration of the hundredth anniversary of the constitution of Tasmanian Freemasonry in 1935_. A "Special Levy" of four
shillings a year per member was authorized. I.t is estimated t4at this
Levy will realize, w ith interest, approximately £6,000, in 1935.
Recommendations of the Third Australian Masonic Conference,
held at Sydney, in July, 1928, were adopted. One assumes uniformity
of Signs, Tokens, a~d Words for all Australian Grand Jurisdictions.
Another provides that a Brother who ceases to be an affiliated member of a Lodge for a period of more than one year shall not be permitted to visit any Lodge unless by dispensation from the Grand
Master. A third prohibits membership in and the attendance of any
meeting of the Order of the Eastern Star; it also excludes the Eastern
Star from holding ·meetings in any Lodge room. A fourth declares
that "it is not desirable that Lodges should become so large in numbers as to prejudice members from engaging in and enjoying fraternal
intercourse with one another," a nd that the membership of a Lodge
should not exceed 150. A fifth wants each Lodge to appoint a Committee to visit sick or afflicted members, and to renew an interest in
their Lodge in members who absent themselves from Lodge meetings. It also recommends that the delivery of short talks upon the
symbolical meaning of the several parts of each ceremony in each
degree be encouraged, and that the Grand Lodges institute circulating libraries and arrange for the delivery of lectures.

134

Tasmania:
A new Ritual adhering as closely as practicable to the Emulation
Workings was adopted. Also a "Drill Book of Craft Masonry" giving
the Master's instructions as to a correct working of Degrees. Author-

Turkey:
The newspaper men among the membership, the physicians, the
artists, those ·interested in child welfare, and others held profitable
group meetings. The outstanding undertaking probably is the organization of a commission for the study of ways and means of how
Masons may h elp boys and adolescent young men to adhere to the
moral law and to share in the spirit of brotherhood and other inspirations cultivated by the Craft. Brother Andreas Somlo, Elizabethstrasse 2, Vienna, was made the Chairman. Under his leadership
many new Societies of young men have been formed in many centers.
In Holland and Switzerland such Societies have been fostere d by the
Masons for some years. In Vienna a splendid start was made. In
Prague, too, much practical good has been accomplished through the
zeal of the Brethren there.

136

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Other useful departments of work were formed under the chairmanship of outstanding specialists.
There is no intention of encroaching upon the field of Lodges or
Grand Lodges. The idea merely is to bring together Brethren Of
many Jurisdictions in an informal manner to enjoy the pleasures of
meeting with .one another, once a year, exchange experiences, and
be inspired to unite more closely, as the years go on, by ties of friendship and the profit gained by such intercourse, to be of service to
their time and generation.
The membership fee is only One Dollar a year. Members are not
bound to any embarrassing Declaration of Principles. It is just a
good-will get-together of Masons under fraternal auspices.
Victoria:
The Grand Master reported that "the outstanding feature" of
1927 was the purchase of twenty-five acres of land for the establishment of a future Masonic Institution comprising a Hospital for
Brethren and their dependents, a Convalescent Home for those not
yet able to resume their usual tasks, and a Hostel for the aged and
infirm, who by reason of their affliction can not be cared for in the
Freemasons' Homes.
Active interest in the Boy Scout and the Big Brother movement
is commended to the Brethren. They are also asked to support the
National War Memorial of Victoria for the Shrine of Remembrance.
Western Australia:
Grand Lodge joined the other Australian Jurisdictions in sending
an invitation to the Grand Lodge of England to have a Delegation
visit them.
For the twenty-eighth year in succession the books of Grand
Lodge have closed without there being one single Lodge in arrears.

137

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

APPENDIX
CHAIRMEN OF THE COMMITTEES ON
CORRESPONDENCE
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
John H. Gihon, California No. 1, 1850.
Grand Secretary 1850, Druggist, Author of Annals of San
Francisco. Opened a book store in the Masonic Temple. Died
during the War in Louisiana.
Levi Stowell, California No. 1, 1851-1855. 5 years.
Carpenter. First Master of California No. 1, Grand Secretary
1851-1855.
Alex G. Abell, California No. 1, 1856-1860.
Grand Secretary 1856-1889. 34 years.

5 years.

James L. English, Sacramento No. 40, 1861.
First Master of Lodge. Attorney, State Treasurer 1856.
William C. Belcher, Corinthian No. 69.
Grand Master' 1862-1864.

1862.

Gilbert B. Clair borne, San Joaquin No. 19.
Grand Master 1865-1866.

1863-1864.

2 years.

Henry H. Rhees, Marysville No. 9, 1865-1866. 2 years.
Lawrence C. Owens, Golden Gate No. 30, 1867.
Served for a number of years as Assistant Grand Secretary.
William H. Hill, Marin No. 191, 1868-1873, 1876-1882, 1884, 1887.
15 years.
Printed a paper in Albany, N. Y. Episcopal minister. Chaplain
at San Quentin Prison, County Superintendent of Schools at
Sacramento. As Grand Chaplain delivered eulogy over Thomas
Starr King.
William H. January, San Jose No. 10, 1874-1875. 2 years.
Printer in 1849, State Treasurer 1883-1884. Tax Collector for a
number of years of Santa Clara County.
Thomas H. B. Anderson, Los Palmas No. 366. 1883.
Minister at Fresno. Served as Grand Chaplain.

138

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

James W. Anderson, Pacific No. 136, 1885-1886, 1888-1889, 1893.
5 years.
Grand Lecturer, 1S89. State Superintendent of Public Instruction
1890. Author Anderson's Digest, etc., of California. Grand Lodg~
laws.
William A. Robertson, Kin~ Solomon No. 260, 1890.
Teacher, Lincoln Grammar School, San Francisco.
James M. Ellis, Fidelity No. 120, 1S91.
William H . Edwards, Pacific No. 136, 1892.
School teacher. Grand Lecturer, 1896-1906.
William A. Davies, San Joaquin No. 19, 1894-1906. 13 years.
County Clerk; San Francisco. Grand Master 1867 Prominent
in Knights Templar.
'
.
James B. Stevens, Yount No. 12, 1907.
Grand Master 1894. United States Customs Service.
Alonzo J. Munroe, Humboldt No. 79, 1908.·
Grand Master 1911. Attorney.
Edward H. Hart, Live Oak No. 61, 1909-1917. 9 years.
Grand Master 1906. General Agent Insurance Company.
John D . Murphey, Alta. No. 333, 1918.
Grand Master 1913. Superior Judge Alameda County.
John Franklin West, Pasadena No. 272, 1922.
Teacher.
James Lewis Matthews, Covina No. 334, 1925.
Newspaper Editor.
Jesse M. Whited, California No. 1, 1919-1921, 1923-1924, 1926-1929.
10 years.
Insurance Manager.

• • * •

*

•

Twenty-three have held the position.
Three Grand Secretaries served on this Committee.
Seven Past Grand Masters.
Two Grapd Lecturers.
William H. Hill was appointed for 1888, but on account of eye
trouble James W. Anderson wrote the report.
' .
James B. Stevens made no report while Chairm'a~ in 1907.
Term of Service-Hills, 15 years; Davies, 13 years; Whited, 10
years; Hart, 9 years; Stowell, Abell and Anderson, 5 years each.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

139

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are
generally known as t he York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly
speaking, they should be t.e rmed the American Rite and the Scottish
Rite,' for the one commonly called York is peculiar in its organized
proceedings only to the United States.
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar degrees.
The symbolic degrees are conferred in a lodge and are the
Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They
are called Symbolic beca use t heir prominent mode of inst ruction is
by symbols.
The Capitular degrees are conferred in a Chapter and are t he
Mark Master, · the Past Master, the Most Excellent Mast er and the
Royal Arch. The supplemental and honorary degrees of High Priesthood is conferred in a Council of High Priests upon those who have
been regularly elected to preside over a Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons. They are called Capitular because they are conferred in a
Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning "done in a Chapter."
The Cryptic degrees are confer~ed in a Council. They .are the
Royal Mas ter, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called Cryptic because the word "crypt" means a secret
vault or unde.i ;ground passage.
The T emplar degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight Templar comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take the
temple at Jerusalem from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the
33rd, inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States
(which includes all territory south of the Ohio River and west of
the Mississippi River) the organization of the different bodies, and
the degrees conferred by them, are: L odge of Perfection, 4 ° to 14 °,
inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix, 15 ° to 18 ° ; Council of Kad<>sh, 19 ° ·
to 30° Consistory, 31° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.
In the Northern Jurisdiction (which includes all States north of
the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River); the degrees conferred are : Lodge of Perfection, 4° to 14°, inclusive; Council Princes
of Jerusalem, 15° and 16°; Chapter Rose Crnix, 17° and 18°; C<>nsistory, 19° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33•.

HO

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

141

ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS-MONTH OF MEETING
AMERICAN GRAND BODIES
January-Minnesota, North Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Philippine Islands.
February-Arizona, Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi,
Oklahoma, Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.
March-Cuba, New Mexico, South Carolina.
April-Florida, New Jersey, South Australia, Mexico (York),
Porto Rico.
May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York,
Rhode Island, New Zealand, Western Australia.
June-Iowa, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South
Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba,
Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan, Queensland.
July-Canada, New South Wales.
August-Montana, Wyoming, New Brunswick.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri.
October-California,
Ohio, West Virginia.

Delaware,

Georgia,

Illinois,

Kentucky,

. November-Arkansas, Maryland, Wisconsin.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia,
Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania, Ireland.

Massachusetts,

General Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons-John W. Nelson,
General Grand High Priest, Concordia, Kansas; Chas. A. Conover,
General Grand Secretary, Coldwater, Mich.; 42 Triennial, Washington D. C., 1933.
Grand Chapter of California-Samuel A. Clarke, Grand High
Priest, Sari Francisco; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Secretary, Masonic
Temple, San Francisco, 77th Annual Convocation, San Francisco,
April 21-22, 1931.
General Grand Council, Royal and Select Masters-Walter L.
Stockwell, General Grand Master, Fargo, N. D.; 0 . Frank Hart,
General Grand Recorder, Columbia, S. C. 18th Triennial Assembly,
Washington, D . C., 1933.
Grand Council of California-Lewis E. Kent, Grand Master,
Poway; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder; Masonic Temple, San
Francisco. 81st Annual Assembly, San Francisco, April 20, 1931.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar-William L. Sharp,
Grand Master, Chicago, Ill.; Adrian Hamersly, Grand Recorder,
Indianapolis, Ind. 38th Triennial Conclave, Minneapolis, Minn., June
20-26, 1931.
Grand Encampment of California-James T. Langford, Grand
Commander, Acampo; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder, Masonic
Temple, San Francisco. 73rd Conclave, April 23-24, 1931.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R.-(Southern Jurisdiction)-John
H. Cowles, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander; H. W. Witcover,
33°, Secretary General, House of the Temple, Washington, D. C.
Meets biennially third Monday in October, Washington, D. C.,
William Parker Filmer, 33°, San Francisco, Sovereign Grand Inspector General, Northern District of California ; Perry Winslow Weidner, 33°, Los Angeles, Sovereign Grand Inspector General, Southern
District of California.
(Northern Jurisdiction)-Leon M. Abbott, 33°, Sovereign Grand
Commander; Charles H. Spilman, 33°, Secretary General, 299 Broadway, New York. Meets annually the third Tuesday in September,
Boston, Mass.

142

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MASONIC CALENDAR

CALIFORNIA STATISTICS

Ancient Craft Maaons--Commence their era with the creation of
the world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L.), "in the year of light."

. (As usual the most complete set of statistics compiled are to be found in the
Report of J. Edward Allen, Correspondent for North Carolina. We have space only
for those applicable to California.)
Average Average Calif.
in U.S. in Calif. Ranks
17
Number of Master Masons per million of population ...... 27,523
30,432
241
13
201.3
~umber of Master ,Masons per Lodge................................
Number of Master Muons. per hund red square miles ....
111.5
89
29
3.23
Percentage of Net Gain ..........................................................
.68
4
19.57
65.6
Percentage of Net Gain to Raisin go....................................
Number of Suspension1 and Expulsions per thousand ......
19.44
9.33
41
Number of Deaths per thousand........_ ....:............................
11.87
941
48
131.6
Percentage of Affiliation• to Demiosions............................
6
97.33
Percentage of Master Masons that are R. A. Masons ....
19.08
48
28.92
Percentage of Master Masons that are R. & S. Masons
7.09
10.03
26
Percentage of Master Masons that are Knights Templar
13.41
10.70
37
Percentage of Master Masons that are 14° Masons........
18.95
22.51
16
Percentase of Master Masons that are 32° Masons........
16.27
17
18.11
Percentage of R. A. Mason• that are R. & S . Masons....
35.96
15
37.14
Percentage of R. A. MaSOtlll that are Knights Templar....
48.11
18
56.05
Percentage of 14° Masons that are 32° Masons................
90.67
41
80.46
Percentage of 18° Masons that are ·32 • Mason~ ................
96.62
38
93.97
Percentage of Knights Templar to .3 2° Masooa................
42
82.46
51.08
Percentage of Eastern Stars to Masonic Membership......
58.19
70.1 3
19

Add 4000 years to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 4000--5923.
Scottish Rite-Same ·as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chronology is used. Anno Mundi (A. M .), " in the ye;r .o f the w~rld."
Add 3760 to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 3760--5683. After
September add another year.
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the year the second temple
was commenced by Zerubbabel, Anno lnventionis. (A. Inv.), "in
the year of discovery."
Add 530 years to the vulgar era. Thus: 1923 and 530-2453.
Royal and Select Masters-Date from the year in which the
Temple of Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.),
"in the year of the deposit."
Add 1000 to the common time. Thus: 1923 and 1000--2923.
Knights Templar-Commence their era with the· organization
of their order. Anno Ordinis (A. 0 .), "in the year of the Order."
From the Christian era take 1118. Thus: 1118 from 1923--805.
Order of High Priesthood-Dates from the year ·of the blessing
of Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Benedictionis
(A. B .), "in the year of the l:>lessing."
To the Christian era add 1913, the year of blessing. Thus: 1923
and 1913-3836.

143

Consolidated Statistics from Latest Information Available
United States
Number
Members

California
Number Membero

Symbolic Lodges ........................................16,579

3,304,305

580

141,926

Chaptera (R. A. M.) ................................ 3,939

917,824

130

26,756

Councils (R. & S. M,) ............................ 1,530

332,789

34

9,893

Commanderies (K. T.) ........................_.. 1,702

143,828

65

14,906

Lodges (A. & A. S. R.)........................
Chapters (A. & A. S . R.)....................

592,785
556,235

13

31 ,206

229

13

26,721

Consistories (A. & A. S. R.) ................

183

543,296

12

25,110

273

144

145 ;:· I

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE ·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

FOREIGN · JURISDICTIONS · ,

GRAND LODGES, DATE OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED
11 , I

JESSE M. WHITED,

m: 11. 1 .i11 111 :1rnm 1~.: ~1111 .
.

1: , ,. .J[jl:J

When
Organized

Annual ·
Communication

Proceedings
Reviewed

Oct. 12, 1905
Feb. 22, 1832
Oct. 10, 1855
May 12, 1875
Oct. 10, 1867
Jan. 21, 1866
June 24, 1875
Oct. 20, 1869
Aug. 9, 1906
Dec. 3, 1877
April 30, 1890
April 25, 1904
April 16, 1884
J une 26, 1890
April 16, 1884
1899
June 24, 1717
April 6, 1731
Oct. IS, 1736
Feb. 25, 1832
Dec. 24, 1772
1803
Dec. 5, 1859
1861
Dec. 19, 1912
Oct. 8, 1885

June
June
July
June
August
June
June
February
June
July
May
June
April
June & December
Quarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
December
February
June
January

1929

1929-30
1929
1929
1929
1930

March
April
January
April

1930
1930

Chairman Committee on Correspondence, 1930.

Alabama .............................................
Arizona ............- ................................ .
Arkansas...............................:............
California ...........................................
Colorado .................................... ,........
Connecticut.. .....................................
Delaware ............................................
District of Columbia ..................... ..
Florida............................................... .
Georgia...............................................
Idaho ................................................. .
Illinois ................................................
Indiana ...............................................
Iowa...................................................
Kansas .............................................. ..

t,~:~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Maine.................................................
Maryland ...........................................
Massachusetts .................................. .
Michigan .......................................... ..

Sl~~~7f.~'.:: : : : : ::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Montana........................................... ..
Nebraska .......................................... ..
Nevada ...............................................
New Hampshire............................. ..
New Jersey .......................................
New Mexico ......................................
New York. ....................................... .
North Carolina ................................ .
North Dakota ...................................
Ohio ...................................................
Oklahoma ......................................... .
Oregon ...............................................
Pennsylvania. .................................. ..
Rhode Island .................................. ..
South Carolina .................................
South D akota .................................. .
Tennessee ...........................................

~~~~~f.Ef~~

When
Organized

Annual
Communication

Proceedings
Reviewed

June 14, 1821
Mar. 25, 1882
Nov. 21 , 1838
April 18, 1850
Aug; 2, 1800
July 8, 1789
June 6, 1800
Dec. 11, 1810
July 5, 1830
Dec. 16, 1786
Dec. 16, 1867
April 6, 1840
Jan. 12, 1818
Jan. 8, 1844
Mar. 17, 1850
Oct. 16, 1800
July 12, 1812
July 1, 1820
July 31, 1783
July 30, 1733
Sept. 14, 1844
Feb. 24, 1853
July 27, 1818
April 21, 1821
Jan. 24, 1866
Sept. 23, 1857
Jan. 16, 1865
July 18, 1789
Dec. 18, 1786
Aug. 6, 1877
Sept. 5, 1781
Jan. 14, 1771
June 12, 1889
Jan. 7, 1808
Nov. 10, 1892
Aug. 16, 1851
Feb. 2, 1764
June 25, 1791
Mar. 24, 1787
July 21, 1875
Oct. 14, 1813
Dec. 20, 1837
Jan. 16, 1872
Oct. 14, 1794
May 6, 1777
Dec. 9, 1858
May 11, 1865
Dec. 18, 1843
Dec. 15, 1874

December
February
November
October
September
February
October
December
April
October
September
October
May
June
February
October
February
May
November
December
M ay
Jan.u ary
February
September
August
June
June
May
April
March
May
January
June
October
February
June
December
May
March
June
J anuary
December
January
June
February
June
October
June
August

1929
1930
1929
1929
1930
1929
1929
1929-30
1929
1929
1929
1930
1929
1930
1929
1930
1930
1929
1930
1930
1929
1929
1929-30
1929
1930
1929-30
1930
1930
1929
1929
1930
1929
1929
1930
1929-30
1930
1929
1930
1929
1929
1929
1930
1929

Alberta .............................................. .
British Columbia ............................ ..
Canada ...............................................
M anitoba ................. :..........................

~ ~~a·~~i:'.'.~~:::·:.::::::::::'.:::::·::.::::;.:

P rince Edward Island.....................
Quebec .............................................. .
Saskatchewan ....................................
N ew "South W ales .......................... .
N ew ·Z ealand ................................... ..
Q ueer\s l'and ...................................... ..

~~~:::~tf~-~~~~-i-~:::::::T:::::::::.:-.·::::.·::.:::

Victoria ....................~,:~ ...................... .
W est Australia ...... :..c....................:..
England ................... ~ ........................ ..
I reland .............................................. ..
Scotland .............................................
B elgium .. ,...........................................
France (Grand Orient) ..................
France (Grand Lodge) ..................
Cuba ...'. .............................................. .
Mexico (York) .............................. ..
Philippine Islands .......................... :.
Porto Rico ......................................:.
Panama ............................................. .

1929
1929
1929
1929
1929

1929
1929
1930
1929
1930

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

CONSOLIDATED . STATISTICAL
APPENDIX
·.,

FOREI GN GRAND BODIES

146

Prepared by ALBERT K. WILSON, Grand Secretary Emeritus and Grand
Recorder Emeritus, · Kansas Correspondent. February, 1930.

Alabama ............................................
Arizona ···········-··················-············..
Arkansas ......................................... .
California ..........................................
Colorado ............................................
Con necticut ........................................
D elaware ............................................
District of Columbia........................
Florida ..............................................
Georgia ..............................................
Idaho ..................................................
I llinois ..............................................
Indiana ..............................................
Iowa ..................................................
Kansas

·············-············--· ..·········-····

~~~!~~~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:

Maine .............................................,..
Maryland ..........................................
Massachusetts ..................................
Massachusetts and Rhode Island
Michigan '..........................................
Minnesota ..........................................

~:::~s~~rp'.

. .: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

Montana ............................................
Nebraska ..........................................
Nevada ..............................................
New Hampshire................................
New Jersey........................................
New Mexico ......................................
New York ..........................................
North Carolina ..................................
North Dakota....................................
Ohio ..................................................
Oklahoma ..........................................
Oregon ..............................................
Pennsylvania ....................................
Rhode Island ......................................
South Carolina ..................................
South Dakota....................................
Tennessee .......................................... .
Texas ..................................................
Utah ..................................................

~i:;;:;:t ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~r:::~~~'.~'.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Wyoming ..........................................

Grand
Lodge

Grand
Chapter

Grand
Council

Grand
C-omd'y.

53,293
6,432
36,985
138,652
33,610
45,905
6,058
23,281
32,301
68,415
10,340
294,209
129,443
86,416
82,221
63,267
34,204
43,935
33,857
124,361

13,881
1,269
7,921
26,466
8,124
16,800
1,984
6,138
8,711
16,130
2,685
90,961
32,992
22,523
20,154
17,843
8,932
17,626
9,923
41,537

4,677
534
1,475
9,841
2,446
10,820
229
1,547
2,040
5,649

8,463
765
2,795
14,555
4,764
.6,609

25,338
19,885
6,768
6,065
4,468
1,729
8,531
5,010
15,228

35,82~

151,896
61,940
36,466
113,791
20,631
41,978
3,039

46,887
17,078
7,349
33,441
4,694
8,385
649
5,669
20,511
2,004
72,002
7,849
3,948
80,917
13,580
7,107
61,752
10,416
5,414
5,803
10,981
43,226
1,300
5,939
16,821
9,361
12, 104
26,302
2,233

94,773
6,932
343,744
41,350
15,470
204.638
70,969
30,742
212,803
19,021
29,698
19,779
50,732
137,836
5,177
19, 558
48,782
49,421
34,414
61,509
8,145

15,157
3,162
4,128
10,928
940
3,313
140
3,546
4,024
13,036
2,007
906
45,941
4,877
2,160
15,110
5,890
3,745
1,3 71
2,674
30,609
1,827
3,063
9,781

3,322
5,806
7,816
1.659

!J,180
11,756
14,412
8,866
3,212
.9,640
4,800
26,198
15,798
7,737_
3,797
16.512
2,619
4,459
303
3,360
7,695
1,387
37 .743
5:228
2,284
34,266
7,479
3,839
42,679
3,780
J.559
4,998
18,361
907
3,575
7,434
5,110
6,952
11,356
1,569

Totals ........................................ 3,282,419
General Grand Chapter
Subordinates ..........................
General Grand Council
Subordinates ..........................
Grand Encampment
Subordinates ........................

916,322

United States Totals ................ 3,282,419
Foreign Totals-........................... 1,093,798

917,824
162,821

330,631
2,158

451,473
16,418

Grand Totals ............................ 4,376,217

1,080,645

332,789

467,891

329,585

449,230

1,502
1,046
2,243

147

Grand
Lodge

Grand
Chapter

Grand
Council

Grand
Comd'y.

Alberta ................................................. 13,752
British Columbia.................................. 15,170
Can.,da ................................................ 114,237
4,000
Chile ....................................................
Colombia ..............................................
816
JOO
Costa Rica, C. A. ..............................
Cuba .................................................... 13,443
Ecuador ................................................
431
England .............................................. 360,000
England and Wales............................
Guatemala ..........................................
598
225
Honduras ............................................
Ireland ................................................ 500,000
12,068

2,824
2,756
26,135

499

12,310

960

4,1 08

~:~i~Y:!: p~-;,·~-i~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Mexico (York Grand Lodge) ............
934
New B runswick..................................
6,028
New South Wales.............................. 67,273
New Zealand ........................................ 26,227
9,892
Nova Scotia ........................................
Panama ................................................
355
Peru ......................................................
630
Philippine Islands ..............................
6,636
Prince Ed ward bland ........................
1,226
Puerto Rico ....................................... .
4,500
Quebec .................................................. 15,512
Queensland .......................................... 21,000
141
Salvador, C. A ...................................
Saskatchewan ...................................... 14,585
Scotland .............................................. 260,000
South Australia .................................. .. 14,576
3,964
46,771
Western Australia..............................
8,50!1

~ri~:~~a..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

80,000

25,000
1,791
699
1,620
3,596
4,031
2,563

3,804
675
2,607

4,569
850

Total ............................................ 1,093 798
United States Totals .................. 3,282:419

162,82 1
917,824

2,158
330,631

16,418
451,473

Grand Totals................................4,376,217

1,080,645

332,789

467,891

148

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MASONIC STATISTICS

STATISTICS 1929-30 GRAND LODGES OF THE
UNITED STATES

The figures for the United States and Canada represent the annual compilation
of Masonic membership .statistics by (i,,.-·Grand Lodge Bulletin, Cedar Rapids, Iowa,
as deriV~d from figures submitted by the various G'rand Secretaries, or taken from
the official publications of Grand Lodges. While the total membership of the
Fraternity has slightly increased, it will be obs~rved tha t eighteen Grand Lodge~:·
of the United States and one Canadian show a decrease, where last year there were.
twelve.

The tables for Latin America, Australia, Great Britain and Ireland, and Con- ·
t in.en.ta! Europe are from the excellent Report on ·correspondence of New York, for
1929.

COMPARATIVE STATISTICS · OF GRAND LODGES IN
UNITED STATES
Year-

Lodges_

Members

In(:rease ·

1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930

16,330
16,442
16,465
16,536
16,529
16,579

. 3,107,229
3,166,177
3,226,774
3,273,495
3,303,629
3,304,305

IJ5,567
58,958
60,597 :
46, 721
30,134
. 676

149

Increase

STATE-

D ate

Alabama .... , ........................................Sept. IS. 1929
Arizona.............................................. D ec. 31, 1929
Arkansas ............................................ O ct .
I, 1929
California ........................................... July 31, 1929
Colorado .............................................July 31, 1929
Connecticut........................................D ec. 31, 1929
Delaware............................................June 24, 1929
District of Colu mbia ...................... .Sept. 30, 1929
Florida ................................................Dec. 27, 1929
Georgia ...............................................Aug. 31, 1929
Idaho ..................................................Jun.e 30, 1929
Illino is ................................................June 30, 1929
Indiana ............................................. ..D ec. 31, 1929
Iowa ................................................... J an.
I, 1930
Kansas ................................................Jan.
I, 1930
Kentucky ........................................... Sept. I, 1929
Louisiana ........................................... D ec. 31, 1929
Maine..................................................March l, 1930
Maryland ............................................Nov. 1, 1929
Massachusetts................................... Sept. I, 1929
Michigan............................................Jan.
I, 1930

g;:~;N.~'.::: : : : ::::::::::::::::: ::: :::::::::~~.. ~!: :~~~
M ontana ...................................:........ .]une 30, 1929

~~~~d~~-~.'.':.".'.'.":::::::::::::::::::::.-.·:::::::::::::.1~~ll I~: ~m
New Hampshire............................... April
New Jersey ................................., ..... Dec.
New Mexico ..................................... D ec.
New. York......................................... D ec.

15, 1929
31, 1929
31, 1929
31, 1929

~~~~~ ~~~~!~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::bue~~ ~~:

:m

2~1~~~~~::::::: _: : ::::::::::·::::::. :::::::::::::~r. :i: :m

Pennsylvania ..................................... Dec.
R hode Island.................................... May
South Carolina .................................Jan.

27 , 1929
I, 1929
I , 1930

i~~~~s?e~~~~-~--.-:.-::::::::::::::::.·:·.·::.·::::::::.~:r. ~~: :~~g
'.[;~~h~.:·::::.".".".",·:.-~.".".'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.".".'.'."."::.·::.·::::.·::::."B'e~~ ii: ~ ~~~

~:'::~~'.:::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::~::. 2~: ~m
1

~r:r:~1~~~'.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~- H: m~

W yoming...........................................June 30, 1929
Philippine Islands ............................N ov. 30, 1929

Lodges

or
Membership
Decrease*

567
38
518
676
148
125
22
44
251
625
80
l,Oll
557
557
448
587
268
207
121
326
508
310
379
659
135
293
23
81
269
57
1,015
410
129
613
451
172
566
43
289
179
454
992
25
103
353
266
167
312
48
102

51,433
6,612
39,000
138,652
33,610
46,046
6,104
23,352
31 ,262
65,588
10,340
294,209
129,990
86,011
82,221
62,087
32,831
44,001
33,999
125,000
151,896
61,766
35,303
ll 3,791
20,905
42,150
3,039 .
15,486
96,157
7,047
346,413
41,368
15,446
206,720
68,871
30,638
214,195
19,021
29,076
19,862
50,067
138,096
5,177
19,558
48,912
49,119
34,533
62,338
8,361
6,646

16,579

-3,304,305
--- ·
Net Gain

1,860.
180
1,000•
4,350
346
141
46
71
1,039•
2,827•
38
1,099
547
405*
1,487*
1,180*
1,373*
66
142
288*
173*
1,157•
86
274
186
85
1,384
ll 5
2,713
. 18
24*
2,082
2,098•
121•
1,392
'169
618.
155
665*
260
120
85
302 •
ll9
829
216
21•
17 ,314
16,638*
676

150

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

-161

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MASONIC STA TISTICS

2.

CANADA

(Gath~ed from Latest Reports Received)

Increase

GRAND LODGE-

GRAND . LODGES-

Number of
Lodges

Alabama ············-·································· 574
Arizona ..................................................
36
Arkansas................................................ ·sis
California ····-········································ 572
Colorado ................................................ 147
Connecticut .......................................... 121
Delaware ..............................................
22
District of Columbia............................
44
Florida .................................................. 256
Georgia .................................................. · 608
Idaho ....................................................
80
Illinois .................................................... 1,011
Indiana .................................................. 559
Iowa ...................................•.................. 557
Kansas .................................................. 447

m

f~~r~~~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ·

Maine .................................................... 207
Maryland .............................................. . 122
Massachusetts ...................................... 326

m~a~]r:~!_: ~:~ ~ ~ ~:~:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~: : ~ ~ : :~ : ~: : ·!I!
Montana ................................................
Nebraska ..............................................
Nevada ..................................................

134
293
23

~ ~-: }!~:~~~'.~-~::::::::::::::::.·.·:_·_·.-.-:.-::::::::.·.·_· 2~J
New Mexico..........................................

.

57

~ffi~~~::~~~~ ~='::~: m

Philippine blands................................
Porto Rico ............................................

] 02
52

Total for the United States ........ 16,508

Member·
ship
51,433
6,405
34,732
138,652
33,610
45,905
6,104
23,352
32,301
65,578
10,340
294,209
129,443
86,416
83,708
62,087
34,204
43,935
33,999 .
124,709
151,896
61,940
36,399
113,791
20,905
41,978
3,039
15,486
94,773
7,047
346,413
40,307
15,470
206,720
70,969
30,742
212,803
. 19,021
29,698
19,779
50,067
138,096
5,177
19,558
48,782
49,421
34,533
61,509
8,361
6,667
3,880
3,306,349

1 Year's
Net Gain
141
4,350
227
344
48
71
38
1,090
372
307
39
141
1,336
353
86
274
30
85

I Year's
Net Loss

1,860
2,253

414
2,251
169

72
66
126
220
381
15.l
1,204
216

I

155
114
105
43
81
564
15
91
198

13,752
15,436
12,253
6,056
9,952
114,237
1,226
· 1s,822
14,867

201
183
22
63
28*
2
310
651

1,366

203,601

1,4.13
*28

31, 1928
31, 1929
31, 1929
27, 1928
1, 1930
24, 1929
31, 1.929
31, 1929
28, 1930

103
2,837

Net Gain

1,405

..........
70

3.

LATIN AMERICAN REPUBLICS

·1;180
987
346
155

······74
1,061
1,718

GRAND LODGESCuba •.............................................................................
Chile ·······-·····'································································
C.olombia (Barranquilla) ............................................
Costa Rica ......................................................................
Ecuador ....................................................................... .
Guatemala ..................................................................... .
Mexico (York G. L.) ..................................................
Panama ......................................................................
Porto Rico (included under United States) ............
H

••

Number of
Lodges

Member·
ship

1 Year's
Net Gain

186
77
10
6
8
17 .
9
9

13,178
5,200
589
343
585
580
927
307

349

20
2

Reliable up-to-date statistics of other LatinAmerican countries could not be obtained.
Our best judgment ie that as far as mem·
bership is concerned, the
Total for Latin·America is approximately ..................................................
Total for North America ............................................................................... .

50,000
3,508,847

Total for All Americas ................................................................................. .

3,558,847

150

....655

4.

740

AUSTRALASIA
Number of
Lodges

Membership

1 Year's
Net Gain

New South ..Wales........................................................
New Zealand ..: .............................................................
Queensland ....................................................................
South Australia............................................................
Tasmania ......................................................................
Victoria ··············-·············································-·-·····-·Wes tern Australia.................................. -....................

582
289
344
147
50
480
12 7

69,229
26,227
21,000•
14,576
3,975
48,780
8,508

1,956
648
918
143
1,909
391

Total for Australa•ia............................................

2,019

192,295

5,965

GRAND LODGES-

16

··········
+21,689

Alberta ............................................... Dec.
British Columbia ..............:............... Dec.
Manito ba .......................:.................... Dec.
New Brunswick............................... Dec.
Nova Scotia...................................... April
Ontario .............................................. .]une
Prince Edward Island» ................... May

~:.i~~~h~-~~~-·..-.·.·_·_·_·:.-. ..·.·.-.·.·_-.-.·.·::.·.-.·:::::.·:::.~:b:

2,208
115
2,669
!I
2,082

Lodges

Date

1.-UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

or
Member·
Decrease*
ship

-14,205

*Estimated.

S.

CHAIRMEN OF COMMITTEES ON FOREIGN
CORRESPONDENCE-SEPT. 1, 1929

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND
Number of
Lodges

GRAND LODGES-

Membership

4
fr~f!~'dd .::::::::.~:::.:·:.::·:.~:.::·.:·.:·::.:::·.:·::.·:::.:·::~:::·:.::·:.:·.~:.:·::.:·:::::.:::·.:·:.: ·~i~
Scotland ...............................................................•..................

860

342,000*"
52,000*
86,000*

Total for Great Britain and Ireland........................

6,002

468,000

*Estimated.
. **The total recorded membership of the U. G. L. of England is 371,000. This
mcludes Brethren who belong to more than one Lodge within the Jnrisdiction of
Grand Lodge. The estimated fignre probably is about correct.

6.

GRAND LODGES-

Austria (G. L. of Vienna) ....•................... ,... 25
Bnlgaria .......................................................... 10
CzechoslovakiaLessing zn den Drei Ringen................ 24
National (Narodni)................................ 11
Denmark .......................................•.................. 21
Finland ............................................................
5
GermanyThree Globes, Berlin.............................. 176
German National, Berlin ...................... 177
Prussia ................ ...... .............................. I 08
Eclectic Union, Frankfort.................... 25
Znr Sonne, Bayreuth............................ 43
Eintracht, Darmstadt............................ 10
Hamburg ................................................ 65
Saxony ···············································"···· 4 5
Bruderkette, Leipzig .............................. 10
Greece ..........................................................:... 51
Jngoslavia ··········································-············ 22
Netherlands .................................................... 127
Norway ............................................................ 28
Spain ................................................................ 52
Sweden ............................................................ 49
Switzerland ...................................................... 39
Tnrkey ............................................................ 23
Egypt ................................................................ 73

Membership

NAME

ADDRESS

Alabama ...................................... Francis M. Stillwell.. ..................... Selma.

~~~;:~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~
~)o~~ E::¥.~.~~'.~~::_.::~::.~:.::_.:::::~:.-::::.-::: ¥;~~;~~~British Columbia ...................... Dr. W. A. DeWolf-Smith ............. New Westminster.
·California............................... :.... Jesse M. Whited ..:.......................... San Francisco.
Canada ........................................ William N. Ponton ......................... Belleville.
Colorado, ..................................... Stanley C. Warner ......................... Denver.
Connecticut ......•......................... George A. Kies ............................... Hartford.
Delaware; .................................... Thomas J. Day ............................... Wilmington.
District of Columbia ................. George W. Baird ........................... Washington.
Idaho ........................:.................. Percy Jones ....................................... Blackfoot.

I Year's
Changes

1,652
530

+82

1,034
400*
7,156
308

+12

22,400
21,005
10;974
3,400
3,800
891
4,700
6,9ZO
1,851
6,000
750*
7,630
10,000*
1,880
22,717
4,948
2,000
6,500

STATE

b~°,;"::1~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. ~'.;'y.!'~n~ u~~~\1~i::::·.:::::·.::::::·.::::::::::: ~~ia'!:';a~on.

CONTINENTAL EUROPE
Nnmber of
Lodges

153

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

152

~~ff;E.'.\DD. . : :.: : ·.:. ·:_-~· · ~{~!fJ~~E':;·;;··;;. ;: ; .;~ ; ~ :_ r¥E.~:::.~·
Mmi~~i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: fi~~f t'~:~fo~1~~:::::::::::::::::::::::· f~f!~~~~-

Louisiana .................................... Edwin F. Gayle ................................ New Orleans.

+29
-819
-230
-4
-188

+122
+169
+148

~f~~~i;:~::7;;;;;;;:;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;; i~!·~~~r~~1~~:..::_:.~:_:_:_:.:.:_ :·_: ._:_:.:_:_:_:.:_~:_ ~1?2~;~;·
~¥i!::it::::·:::::::·:::·:::::·:::::::::::::::::·: ~:37~~~:;;~~~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::: g~~reld.

l'!~~;~i\:=~i~ tf~i~.::~;:;(:If[I~:~

§~~~~~~~;~::::::::::::::·::::::::::::·::::·~:~:~~~~~Lu~::~~:~~::::::::::·::::::-::::: ~tf~~sport.
~f~~~~~~~~i·;~::::·::::·::::::·::::::·::::: ~. f ·~~g~r:;t.~~~:~::::::::::::::::::::::: ri~~:atzppelle.
~~~r~ E~k'~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: x~~h"~~ ii. If~.£~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~;bt:'i1 •.

Philippine Islands ..................... Newton C. Comfort ......................... Manila.

Estimated total for Continental Enrope and the Near East, approximately
Tota! mempership _of Masonic Lodgc;s working in the English language,
mdicatmg an mcrease of approximately 15,000 .................................... :...
All others, about ......................................................................................................

4,175,000
55,000

Total membership of regular Lodges in the world, for 1929, approximately

4;445,000

215,000

The five numerically strongest Jurisdictions, each with over 200,000 members, are New York, England, IJlinois, Pennsylvania and Ohio with
an aggregate total membership of (about one-third plus of ail regular Masons in the world)............................................................................

1,402,145

Twelve Jurisdictions have a membership of over 100,000 each. Th~y ~;e
in order of numerical strength: New York, England, IJlinois Penn·
sylvania, Ohio, Michigan, California, Texas, Indiana, Massachusetts,
Canada (Ontario), and Missonri; with a total membership of (close
to 50 per cent of all the Masons in the world)........................................

2,312,969

i~~JS-- =:_- ~jI~~~;:t<f:= -~-;-if~~~~·"·
Western Australia ..................... J. W. E. Archdeacon ..................... Perth.

*Fl~~~~'.~'.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.f.1~ ~~~~~~~:~~::::::::::::::_::-::·::::::·: g~:~f~rir:.g·

:;fS~

jtEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

.'.;) :::..·

GRAND SECRETARIES ·

·' .

.

Grand· Lodge .·- - -.-"'--'--Gand.-Sea.etary
-,

Postoffice

Date
When Service
Began

Ala bama ..........·-··-···• .Geor~e A. Il~~ll~.~a.mp........... Montgomery ......... Dec. .24, 1900
Alberta........................ J. H. W. S . Kemms............. . Calgary.................. June· 14,, _1928
Arizona....................... rlarry A. Drachman .............. . Tucson................... July "27 ,._19~8
Arkansas..·-····.. -···--· fay Hempstead ..................... . Little Rock........... Nov."~23 •• 1:~1
British Columbia ...... Wm. A. ]),e Wolf-Smith_.......... New Westminster June 22_, .1911
California ................... John Whicher ...: ...................... San Francisco...... Aug, I, l908
Canada (Ontario) .... Wm. McGregor Logan ....... .. Hamilton ............... Oct. .9, , l918
Colorado........... _........ William W . Cooper................ De.nver................... Mar.. . 1, · 1921
Connecticut................ Winthrop Buck ............... ........ Hartford................ Feb. 'j, 19.29
Costa Rica................ George F. Bowden ............... .. San Jose................ Nov. 28," ,1924
Cuba......:..................... Jose F. Castellanos ................' Havana .................. Dec. 2, 1926
Delaware.................... John F. Robinson ................. .. Wilmington........... Oct. 2,, 1919
Dist. of Columbia..... J . Claude Keiper.................... . Washington .......... June .nl, 1924
England...................... .I:'. Colville Smith ................... . London ................ Sept . ...., 1917
Florida........................ Wilber P. Webster............... . Jachunville........... Jan. 17, 1896
Georgia ....................... Frank F . Baker ...................... . Maco:i... ............... Nov. 1, 1916
Guatemala.................. Francisco Meindl... ................ . Guatemala............. Dec....., . 1926
Idaho.......................... Curtis F . Pike........................ B oise ...................... Sept. 14,_ 1922
Illinois........................ Richard C. Davenport......... Harrisburg............ Jan. 2, 1929
Indiana....................... William H . Swintz ................ . Indianarolis .......... Sept. 13, 1920
Iowa................... ......... C harles C. Hunt.. ................... . Cedar Ra]>ids ........ Jan. 21, 1925
Ireland........................ Henry C. Shellard ................ . Vuh!in................... Dec. 27, 1922
Kansas........................ Elmer F. Strain ...................... Topeka................... Sept. 17, 1928
KLenut.su.cknaY·.·.·.·-·.·.·.-.·.·_·_·_.- -.·_·_ ·.·.·. Fred W . Hardwick .............. .. Louisville.............. Jan. 1, 1923
John A. D avilla ..................... . N cw Orleans........ Feb; 3, 1915
0 1 13
Maine.......................... Charles B . Davis ................. . Portland ................ May 1, 1917
Manitoba .................... James A . Ovas ....................... Winnipeg............ .. June 14, 1900
Maryland.................... George Cook............................ Baltimore.............. Feb. 1, 1911
Massachusetts........... Frederick W. Hamilton........ . Boston................... Mar. 10, 1915
Mexico, Valle de.... Cesar D ominguez Ramos ..... . Mexico City ......... Mar. 10, 1926
Mexico, York ........... A. Percival Hughes.............. . Mexico City ......... Apr, 14, 1927 ·
Michigan ...........,......... Lou B. Winsor...................... . Grand Rapids ....... Apr. 30, 1903
Minnesota................... John Fishel.. ............................ St. Paul... .............. June 11, 1907 ,
................ Sept. 24, 1921
~i::~~~r.~'.::::::::::::::::: ~~u;~.~d i.r~t:.;~~~'..t~_..._._._._._._._._._._._._. Meridian
St. Louis.............. Sept. 1, 1927
Montana..................... Luther T. Hauberg.............. .. Helena................... Aug. 20, 1925
Nebraska .................... Lewis E. Smith..................... . Omaha ................... Tune ... ., 1930
Nevada........................ V. M. Henderson .................. . Carson City .......... June ... ., 1930
·New Brunswick........ J . Twining Hartt ................ ... Saint J ohn ............ June 8, 1897
New Hampshire........ Harry M. Cheney .................. . Con cord ................. bee. 13, 1909
New Jersey ............ - .. Isaac Cherry ..................... .... .. Trenton ................. Apr. 19, 1917
New Mexico.............. Alpheus A. Keen ................... .. Albuquerque......... Nov. 19, 1884
New South Wales ... David Cunningham ............... .. S1dney-................... ~nc 11, 1924
New York. ................ "Robert Judson Kenworthy .... New York ............., une ... ., 1917
New Zealand ............. George Barclay....................... . Wellington............
ay 11, 1921
North Carolina......... John H . Anderson ................. . Raleigh .................. Aug. 8, 1928
North ·Dakota ........... Walter L. Stockwell .............. . Fargo ..................... Mar. 31, 1910
Nova Scotia.............. James C. Jones........................
1
1924
Ohio............................ Harry ·s. Johnson ................... ~i~ ~l~~~1c::.-:::.-.-.-:::
Oklahoma. .................. William M . Anderson ........... . Guthrie ................ lf',:_~ --~: 1910
Oregon ........................ D . Rufus Cheney ..................... Portland ................. June 16, 1922
Panama~ ...................... . M3.cario: Solia:~ ......................... Panama City ........ Mar,, 10, ·1928
Pennsylvania .............. John A . Perry::........................ Philadelphia........:. Oct. 25; -19H
Philippine Islands.... N ewtori C. Comfort ................ Manila................... Dec. 19, 1912

........ .....

: ]~;;-~ z1: 1923
~~i';~. ~d~~;<l"i'~:-.::: ~s.neet.·KJTiK~::s:o:.n·::::.::::_:.:_:·:·:·:·::.: ~h:.rf.:'t~~i~:.;.;;;·:.:.·:.
Montreal ............... .

Quebec....................... .
Queensland ................. Charles H . Harley ..................
Rhode Island............. H a rold L . McAuslan ........... ..
Saskatchewan............ W . B . Tate ..............................
Scotland ...................... _Thomas G. Winning...............
South Australia........ Charles R. J . Glover............ ..
South Carolina .......... 0. Frank Hart.. .......................
South Dakota............ Georire A. Pettigrew...............
Tasmania .................... W. H. Strutt.......................... .
Tennessee................... Stith M. Cain .......................... .
T exas.......................... W . B . Pearson ....................... .
Utah............................ Sam H. Goodwin ................... .
Vermont ..................... A. S. Harriman ...................... .
Victoria...................... William Stewart ..................... .

~~~~i~"g1c,~·::::::::.-.-.-::_·.- ii:~~.Mw_c¥~i;;;::::-.-.:::·.-.-.:-.-.-.:-.::

Brisbane................
,
Providence............. M~y 16, 1927

~d~b~-;gh'.·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-.-.·_-: !i;;b: ··4: 1926
Adelaide.................
Columbia...............
Sioux Falls...........
Hobart ...................
Nashville...............

Oct. 20, 1909
Dec. 14, 1910
............, 1917
May I, 1920
Mar. 25, 1915

0

~itc i:~k;;--c-;i;;·:.:· x;;ii: 22; ~g~f

Burlington............
Melbourne.............
Richmond ..............
Tacoma ..................

tf,~~~;;~1;;;;:::::::::::::

June 14, 1928
Nov. 18, 1921
Feb. 10, 1927
June 14, 1906

Western Australia.... J. D. Stevenson .......................
!i;;b: 24: 1925
West Virginia ........... George S. Laidley ...................
Wisconsin ................... William F . Weiler................ . Milwaukee............. Nov. 8, 1927
Wyoming................... Joseph M . Lowndes ................ Casper ................ .... Mar. 9, 1915

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
Page
·American Freemasonry................................................................................ 139
Attendance ...,..................................,:...................................................8, 73, 82
·Calendar-Masonic ·······-···-·-····-····-················--·········-···--·-···········-············---142
·candidates ...................................................................................................... 13
·catholic Church................................................................~::......................... 25
'Chairmen-Correspondence Committees .......................................:137, 153
·China .............................................................................................................. 18
·Cipher Rituals ...................................................................... ;...............•.........
Clandestine Bodies.....................................,.................................................. 2
·conference-Grand Master........................................................................ 4
Co-ordinate Bodies...................: ....................................2, 139, 141, 145-147
·cornerstones .................................................................................................. 19
Correspondence Reports ..................................................:........................... 21
Crimes ....................................................................................•.......6, 30, 38, 68
.Dates-Masonic .................. :.........................................................................142
DeMolay-Order 0£............................................................•........................• 24
DirectoryCorrespondence Committees.................................................... 137, 153
Co-ordinate Bodies................................................................................ 141

E~i~edd ~~~:!~~'.~~.:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·i:w;··l~!
Dual Membership ..........................................................................................

3

Dues ·································--············-····-----······--····--··········--················--3, 82, 87
Eastern Star-Order 0£................................................................................ 30
Education-Masonic ..............................................................................34, 72
Education-Public ····················--··········-················--···················-···3, 21, 72
Ethics ..........................................................................................................38, 68
Finances ·-···········'·················•··-···--······-'········---······································3, 5, 87
Foreign Grand Lodges............................................................................,... 5
Future-The .................................................................................................. 4
Grand Lodge................................................................................6, 43, 91, 118
Grand Master................................................ ,.: ............................................... 49
Higher Degrees................................................:...............2, 139, 141, 145-147
History ........................................................................4, 5, 18, 24, 57, 62, 72

INDEX OF SUBJECTS-Continued
Page
Homes ·..........................................................................................................5, 30
Investigation ..........................•....................................................................... 13
Lodges ·········································································-······-···················53, 78
MacDuff-The .............................................................................................. 57
Meetings-Grand Lodges........:.......;...........................................................,140
Membership ·····························································-··-···60, 73, 82, 143-147
George Washington Memorial.................................................................. 62
''Olla Podrida"..........................•....................................................,................ 118
Prohibition ·······································-··········-··- ·······-··································· 68
Reading-Interesting .................................................................................. 72
Relief ....................................................................•.......................................5, 30
Ritual ························~····························································1, 19, 57, 73, 82
SecretariesGrand ..........................................................................,............................ 154
Lodge ·····:·····························································································'·· 78
StatisticsCalifornia ................................................................................................ 143
Co-ordinate Bodies.............................-.:...................143, 145, 146, 147
Grand Lodges .............................................................. 144, 145, 146, 147
Suspensions ·························································-··-··········-··- ··················· 82
Temples .......................................................................................................... 87
Trials ...........................:.............................:::.:....:::.:...............:.......6, 30, 38, 68
"Bouquets and Brickbats"...........................................................:.............. 91

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUOTED
United States
Page
Alabama ' ········'······:.....:......:..............................................................68; 91, 118
Arizona ................................ ......................................................................... 74
Arkansas ····'··················· .. ·······································································-'39, 118
Colorado ..........................................................................................50, '92, 119
Connecticut ........................................................................22, 82, 87, 92, 119
Delaware ...:.........:,......................................................................................... 93
District of Coluiiibia....: .....................:.........................................63, 110, 119 ·
Florida ..............................................................................30, 35, 74, 111, 120
Georgia ;.......................................................................................9, 74, 93, 120
Idaho ....::....:......:.:....:·............. :~:: ..................................................9, SO, 79', 120
Illinois ....................................................36, 40, 44, 50, 60, 63, 83, 93, 121
Indiana ······--'······'······'········:............... .< •••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •••• 69, 111, 122
Iowa ..............................................................,................44, 45, 54, 84, 94, 121
Kansas ..............................................................................................64, 94, 111
Kentucky ................................................................................................95, 122
Louisiana ....•:....·..........................................: .....................................:... 111, 122
Maine ;...........•:.:................................................................................. 19, 30, 112
Ma ryland .........:.......................................................... 15, 57, 64, 91, 95, 112
Massachusetts ................................................................................•...... 18, 123
Michigan ................................................................................................ 113, 123
M innesota ...................................................................................................... 124
Mississippi ................................................................................·- ················· 45
Missouri ..............................................................................31, 45, 88, 95, 124
Montana ......................................................................................22, 75, 79, 96
N e.braska ..................................................................................................41, 51
Nevada ........................................................................ 15, 20, 55, 84, 97, 124
New Hampshire......................................................................................23, 113
N ew J ersey ....................................20, 46, 69, 76, 84, 88, 89, 97, 113, 124
New York. .........................................................................27, 37, 56, 114, 125
N orth Carolina................ 10, 20, 37, 46, 52, 56, 76, 80, 85, 89, 115, 125
North Dakota..................................................................................
85, 98

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS-Quoted

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS-Quoted
Page
Ohio .............................:~····························-······················.42, 86, 90, 99, 126
Oklahoma ...............................•........•..... ,....................................................... lU
Oregon ···························'···························································'············99, 127
p ~1:msy Ivama
. ..........................................................
.
32, 53, 61, 100, 116, 127
Rhode Island ............................... :.................................. ,............................... 127
South Carolina .......................................................................... 11, 23, 80, .100
South Dakota ............................................................................ 11, 57, 80, 127
Tennessee ········:·············································································43, 101, 116
·Texas ..........................................................................................47, 48, 65, 101
Utah :..................................................:.................... 17, 21, 37, 66, 70, 77, 87
Vermont :······---·····•··························································37, 70, 81, 102, 116
Virginia ...................................................................................................•...... 128
Washington . .................................................. 12, 48, 57, 67, 71, 78, 86, 102

w ~st v_irginia .........:······:···············································································104
Wisconsin ............................................ ,.....................24, 29, 49, 71, 116, 128
Wyoming ··:·.. ·····'.·· .. '.·············································································105, 128

Foreign
Alberta ..............................•..........;·································-··········:8, 68, 73, 105
Canada .,....................................................................................35, 69, 106, 129
Chile ············.-··········································································:..................•..•. 129
Columbia ........................................................................................................ 129
Cuba ................................................................................................................. 129
England ································································································-········130
Guatemala ...................................................................................................... 130
Ireland ·.··········································································································· 13
Manitoba ·········································-···············································22, 51, 131
Mexico ......................................................................................................65, 109
New Brunsi:vick ...................................................................................... 15, 131
New South Wales ......................... :........................................................ 52, 131
New Zealand, ..............,. ............, .............•..................•.................................... 132
NorV\.'.ay .......................................................................................................... 131
Nova Sco.tia .......... ,............."·························.···································16, 77, 106
Panama .......................................................................................................... 132

Page
Peru ................................................................................................................ 133
Philippine lslands ........:................................................................... 10, 62, 117
Porto Rico ..................•................................................................................... 133
Saskatchewan ·········-·····················································16, 58, 1C'7, 117, 133
South Australia .............................................................................. 17, 118, 133
Switzerland .................................................................................................... 133
Tasmania ................................................................... :................•................... 134
Turkey ............................................................................................................ 135
Victoria .......................................................................................................... 136
West Australia ..............:-····························38, 53, 59, 68, 78, 81, 107, 136

"')

' ··'..·

INDEX-1930
Page

A
'f •

I·
·. t ~ .

Aahmes Temple-Grand Master's comments on .................................. 32
Report of Policy Committee..............................................................282
Accounts-Report of •Commiftee.............................................................. 170
Activities Committee- Appropriation for ..............................................361
Address of Grand Master............................................................................ 7
Advancement after "stop" order........................................................26, 296
Affiliation-Dual membership ....................................................................352
Form of Application ............................................................................286
Proposal to amend section...................................... 165, 168, 283, 349
Alphabetical List of Lodges ...............................................:......................402
Alpina, Grand Lodge of, recognized......................................................291
Altadena Lodge-Charter granted............................................................269
Dispensation issued .............................................................................. 52
Amazons and Acre, Grand Lodge-Recognition deferred ................294
Anaheim Lodge No. 207, suspension of Master............................25, 295
Annual Election of Officers........................................................................ 365
Annual Oration-By William C. Hassler.............................................. 69
Annual Report'-Of Committee on Masonic History.......................... 81
Of Board of ControL............................................. ~............................237
Of Educational Committee................................................................ 88
Of Finance Committee ........................................................................354
Of Grand Lecturer................................................................................. 79
Of Grand Secretary .............................................................................. 42
Of Grand Treasurer.............................................................................. 63
Of Grievances Commiftee..................................................................271
Of Masonic Homes............................:................................................. 92
Appeal, how taken ...................................0•• ••••••••••• ••• • • •••••••• •••••• • .•• ••••• •• • 280, 350
Arizona, Grand Lodge anniversary .......................................................... 11
Audit of Accounts ..........................., ............................................................356

B
Balcom, Charles-Visits California.......................................................... 12
Barranquilla, Grand Lodge of, recognized..:.........................................292
Bicentenary of American Masonry.......................................................... 10
Bogota, Grand Lodge at, recognized......................................................292

ii

lNDEX

INDEX

Page

Page
Board of Control-Annual report oL.....................................................237
Alameda Board of Relief.....................,..............................................250
Appropriat'ions recommended ............................................................258
Comparative financial report.. .............:..............................................260
Employment service...•........................................................................ 256
Fresno Board of Relief ........................................................................242
Honolu·l u Board of RelieL .............................................................:...2Sl
Long Beach Board of Relief ..............................................................249
Los Angeles Board of Relief ............................................................24S
Oakland Board of Relief......................................................................240
Pasadena Board of Relief....................................................................248
Recommendations....................................................................... .2S8, 2S9
Relief extended by Boards of Relief... .............................................262
Reports of Boards of Relief ..............................................................26S
Requests for reimbursement ..............................................................253
Richmond Board of Relief ..................................................................244
Sacramento Board of Relief..............................................................241
San Diego Board of Relief... ................................................:..............246
San Francisco Board of Relief... .......................................................238
San Jose Board of RelieL. ......,..........................................................243
Santa Monica Board of RelieL .......................................................2S2
Statistical information ..........................................................................263
Boards of Relief-Reim'bursements to .................................................... 3S4
Brazil, Grand Lodges-Recognition deferred ........................................293
Budget for Grand Lodge...........................:................................................363
Buttons for Veteran Masons-List of recipients .................................. 44
By-Laws- Amendments reported ............................................................ 56
Amendment to Section 2, Article IX ...................................... 168, 285
Report of Committee on ......................................................................268

c
Cartagena, Grand Lodge at, recognized ..................................................292
Cash receipts and disbursements of Grand Lodge ................................ S9
Charges to be transmitted to Grand Secretary....................................3S 1
Charters-Report of Committee on ..........................................................268
Clandestine Bodies-Referred to by Grand Master ............................ 29
Report of Committee on .~ ....................................................................231
Committees of Grand Lodge ...................................................................... 368
Conference of Grand Masters.................................................................... 11

iii

Constitutional Amendments-proposed.................................................. 166
Section 11 (adopted) ......................................................... .211 , 288, 349
Section 54 (adopted) ..................................................................... ,.. :...3S4
Section 93 (adopted) ........................: ........................................... 166, 288
Section 96a (adopted) .................................................................. 166, 284
Section 103Y, (lost) .................................................................... 167, 287
Section 119 (lost) .................................................................................. 167
Section 122 (adopted) .......................................................................... 3S2
Section 137 (adopted) ..................................................................280, 3S3
Section 140 (adopted) ................................................................ 168, 28S
Section 1S7 (adopted) ..........................................................................299
Section 165 (adopted) ........................................................ 168, 283, 349
Section 189 (adopted) ..........................................................................3Sl
Section 207 (adopted) ................................................................. .280, 350
Section 210 (lost) ..........................................................................-....... 169
Section 211 (lost) .......................................................................... 168, 283
Section 247 (adopted) ........................................................169, 286, 3S2
Credentials-Report of ·Committee.......................................................... 170
Czec110-Slovakia National Grand Lodge recognized............................291

D
Dean, Herbert C.-Visits California ...................................................... 12
Dedication of U. C. L. A. Club H ouse ............................................ 17, 175
Degree teams-Remarks of Grand Master............................................ 24
Rep ort of Committee on............................:.......................................281
Digest of Decisions- Appropria tion for ..........................................23, 3S7
To be compiled......................................................................................301
Dispensations issued for various purposes.............................................. SS
Dual Membership-Affiliation..................................................................3S2
Grand Master's recommendation ...................................................... 36
Petition for by Jubilee L odge No. 604............................................ 16S
Report of Juris'p rudence Committee ............................. .286, 299, 349
Report of Policy and Purposes Committee ....................................294
Dues to Grand Lodge- Per capita tax levied........................................ 361
Dues-Standing of one whose dues are remitted..................................28S

E
Education-Appropriation for ....................................................................3S8
Report of Committee on ...............................................- ..................... 88
Rep ort of Policy and General Purposes Committee ....................281

iv

INDEX

INDEX

v

Page

Page

Educational Program .................................................................................. 29
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173-Complaint against Warren G. Harding Lodge...................................................................................... 165, 299
Emergency Relief Fund, condition 0£............................... - ............~ ......... 61
E011ployment Service-Appropriations for ............................................355
Endowment Fund-List of dono·rs .......................................................... 94
Report of Committee ............................................................................ 170
Exclusive Jurisdiction-Request of Maricopa and Temblor
Lodges........................................................................................20, 44, 300
Expenses of Grand Master-Appropriations for ..................................356
Grand Master's recommendation.................. :...........................39, 284
Expert Accountants report on book of Grand Lodge ........................ 58
Extinct Lodges-List of..............................................................................390

Dispensations to form new Lodges.................................................. 21
Dual membership ................................36, 165, 286, 294, 299, 349, 352
Educational program..............................................................29, 88, 281
Expenses of...........................................................- ...............39, 284, 356
Funeral ritual.. .....................:.................................................................. 19
George Washington Memorial.......................................................... 13
Grand Lecturer........................................................................ 9, 211, 360
Grand Secretary.................................................................- ............9', 359
Johnson, Melvin M .-Visits California............................................ 12
Lassen Monument................................................................................ 173
Lodges constituted................................................................................ 15
Long· Beach Temple......................................................................29, 282
Los Angeles Masonic Library.................................................... 21, 280
Masonic History Committee.............................................. 20, 284, 355
Masonic ·Homes.................................................................... :................. 30
Misrepresentation in petition......................................................27, 298
N ecrology...........................................................................c....... . .........7, 197
Officers' Clubs ........................................................................................ 22
Petitions for exclusive jurisdiction.......:..............................20, 44, 300
Politics .................................................................................................... 31
Portrait of, ordered............................, ................................................357
Public Schools Week....................................................................30, 186
Public Schools Week proclamation.................................................:· 40
Report of Committee on Message.................................................... 65
Seal Rock Lodge-Restoration of cha~ter ...................................... 18
Special Communications of Grand Lodge ...................................... 15
Suspension of Master....................................................................25, 295
Transcripts of trial records ..........................................................28, 352
Visit to Arizona.................................................................................... 11
Visitations .............................................................................................. 13
West Gate Lodge No. 335 ..........................................................26, 296
Grand Secretary-Annual Report.....'....................................................... 42
Amendments to By-Laws .................................................................. 56
Appropriation for traveling expenses .............................................. 359
Cash receipts and disbursements ...................................................... 59
Cash receipts, Masonic Homes................:......................................... 61
Comparative growth.................................................:........................... 43
Dis1pensations issued......:..................................................................... 55
Emergency Relief fund ................................,..........- ........................... 61
Grand Master's reference to ..................................'............................ 9
Growt'h since organization................................................................ 42
Life memberships estaoblished............................................................ 55
Meetings on hdlidays .......................................................................... ·53

F
Financing Masonic Temples-Report of Committee ..........................229
Fischer, Will H.-Regrets at absence.................................................... 6
Flint, Motley Hewes-Memorial services..........................................8, 201
Foreign Grand Lodges-List of recognized ................................290, 400
Foreign Language Lodges................................................................287, 352
Funeral Ritual-Grand Master's recommendation to revise............ 19

G
Grand Lecturer-Annual Report 0£........................................................ 79
Appropriation for Hawaiian trip ..............................................211, 360
Grand Master's reference to...................... _...................................... 9
Report of Committee on .......................................................................213
Grand Lodge-Officers for current year................................................365
Grand Lodge of Bogota recognized ...................,....................................292
Grand Master's Annual Message.............................................................. 7
Aahmes Temple widows' and orphans' fund ..........................32, 282
Appropriation for expenses ........................................................284, 356
Balcom, Charles-Visit to California .............................................. 12
Bicentenary of American Masonry.................................................. 10
Clandestine bodies ..........................................................................29, 231
Conference of Grand Masters ............................................................ 11
Dean,. Her'bert C.-Visits California.............................................. 12
Dedication of U. C. L. A. Club House.................................... 17, 175
Degree teams ..................................................................................24, 281

vi

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Membership -----··-----,-·-···------·-·------··-·-··-·-----···-------···---·--·····-----·-····------- 42
New Lodges.. ·--·----------··---------··-----·--··------·····-·---··--·--···-··-··---· ·-·--···--·---·· 52
Peninsula Lodge, change of name ____________________________________53, 165, 298
Petitions for exclusive jurisdiction ....................................20, 44, 3C-O
Report of Committee on.·-···--····················-····-·-····--·······--·········-······- 68
Report of Experts ..... ·--···········-·········-····················-·-···················-··-···· 58
Representatives appointed; ...:..... ·--·-······--··············-····-······-·········-····-- 52
Trial records·-·········-··-···-·--··-·······--····················-·······························--·· 53
Veteran Masons-Buttons bes towed .............................................. 44 ·
Grand Treasurer-Annual report 0£........................................................ 63
Grievance Committee-List of trial records ........................................ 53
Reports of Committee..........................................................................271
Group Balloting-Proposal to amend Section 1030 .................. 167, 287

H
H a rmony Lodge No. 164-Appropriation for·--·-····-----·····-----··-···---··-····359
Hassler, William C.-Annual oration bY-----··----·---------··----··-·-··---·······---- 69
Henderson, Orrin S.-Relief for·---·-·-····-········-----·--···---··---··----·······----···--362
H ervey, William Rhodes-E u1ogy bY·--·-----·-·--·-···--··--------··---····--····--·-----201
History-Report of Committee o n·-···-·-············-··----·---·-······--·81, 284, 355
Holidays-Meetings on.·-···-···---··------·---····-·-----···---------··------·····-------···--------- 53

J
Jennings Lodge No. 4-Presentation of jewels......--------··-·--·--·-··--·····-.212
Jeffries, William P.- R egrets at absence·--·----·--····---··-····--------···---------· 6
Jewels of Jennings Lodge-Presented to Grand Lodge·----·---··-·····--.212
Johnson, M elvin M.-V isits California _________ ··-·-------·-----···-··---··-···-·--··---·· 12
Jones, Stephen-Distinguished ·visitor____________________________________________________ 6
Jubilee Lodge No. 604-Petition for dual membership ......................165

L
Lassen Monument-Report on......----·-·------------------·-.. ·---------------------··--··-173
L essi ng, Grand Lodge-Recognized ..........................------····-----······----·····291
Libera l A rts Lodge-Charter granted.....·-·····-------·----------·------·-·-·--·-·-----269
Dispensation issued---····---·-----·--·-··--··--·-·····------·----·--·--·----·--·····-·----·-22, 52
Libra ry-Report of Committee·---·-·--··---·---···---···--·-··----·-····---·----··--·--------172
Report of Finance Committee on.----·--·------·--·--------·----------.. ----···--··-357

vii
Page

Life Memberships-Resolutions approved ............................................ 55
Location of Lodges ................---·····--···--···-·····-········--····-············-··--·-·······-··-416
Lodges-List of···-·····--······-·--·--······----···--···--········---··-····----·-·····----·-···-·--______ 371
;Lodges constituted last year.·-·····--··--···--·--··--···-·-·--·--······---···-----··-···-······-· 15
Logie, John H .-Memorial services....·-----·-···-----········---········--····-·-··-·8, 208
Long Beach Temple-Reference to by Grand Master ______________________ 29
Report of Policy and General Purposes Committee.................... 282
Los Angeles Masonic Library_··----·---····-··---···---------·-··-···--···---·------·--·21, 280

M
Maricopa Lodge No. 434-Petition for exclusive jurisdiction.·-------·-··-----·-··-·--·······----·-·---···------·--··-·-----···-·-········-·--······-·--·-20, 44, 300
Masonic E du ca tion-Appropria t-ion for ..------·--····---····--···-·········-·····-··-···358
Report of Committee on...·--·········-··········-·--·······-··-····-··--·--·-···-·--88, 281
Masonic History-Appropriat ion for ....-----·-···············-·······-·--····--··-·····-355
Grand Master's reference to-----·····-········----······-~---·--····-·--·-······-·---···· 20
Report of Committee on .. ·-··-····-····--·······---········.-··---····--·······-···---·--·· 81
Report of Policy and General Purposes Committee..·-··---··---···-284
Masonic Homes-Annual Report of Trustees ....·----·-·-···-----······-·····-···· 92
Buildings at Decoto..------····--··---·-···----··-··-···-·-·-··························---····· 98
Cash receipts and disbursements ......:.. ·--·-·-·····--···--··-····---·-····---·61, 102
Covina-Cash donations to·-··-·-···-·········-------····-··--······--·---·-····--·----··· 152
Donations to ... ·-----······---········-----·······-·-······------··-··-·---·-·········-·-···---···-··· 145
Entertainment --···----············----·········-------·······-·····---··-···············-······-··· 144
Outside relief ______________________________ ................-------···---·····-····--··----····----····· 161
Report of Superintendent ..·-··-·······-···-·-········-···-·-··---·············-··-·········-1 38
Roster of children __________ ·····----··-····--··-·--···----·--·-··--··---·····--··--···---········ 157
V isitations to ....-----·········--···············---··········:·-·····---········--·-·······---···-····-143
D ecoto--Cash donations ____________ --·----·-··-··------····-----······----·--·····----·-····· 121
Deaths in the year .... ·------······---······------·····--·----···-·-···-········--···-·-··--······ 137
Donations to·--·-······---····-····--··-··--·L··-····----·-·-·····--···············---·········-······119
List of residen ts ........ ____--·····-...J ............ ··-·-···--··---·--····-··-··-······-·--·····--127
0 u ts id e rel ief···--·--·---····-········---·:·····-···-··-····-········-·--·· -·····----·-····------·-···-134
Report of Superin tendenL·-------·-··---··--·--··-------····-----------------------------·· 115
V isitatio ns to.......................................................................................... 117
Endowment Fund.................................................................................. 112
Donations ···················--·········-···················-··········--·--····.·---------··--·········· 93
Entertainment Fund-Condition of... ............................................... 106
Grand Master's reference to .............................................................. 30
Opera ting expenses ................·.····--··--·····-·····················-·-·---········-········ 109

viii

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Per capita costs ..........:....................................................................... ~.111
Per capita tax........................................................................................358
Report of Experts ................................................................................101
Residents ................................................................................................ 92
S·c'holarships .......................................................................................... 93
Scholarship Account............................................................................ 106
Secretary's Report ................................................................................ 102
Securities held by......................................................................... ;........ 107
Trustees appointed ..............................c••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •••• 367, 370
Masonic Temple Association-Report of..............................................267
Masonic Temples-Report of Committee on Financing....................229
Master, Suspension of-Report of Jurisprudence Committee....25, 295
Meeting Place of Lodges-Removal of.......................................... 166, 288
Membership-Gains and losses in the year .......................................... 62
Membership-Duty of Mason..................................................168, 283, 349
Membership of Lodges...................'.............................................................. 42
Memorial Services-Eulogy. in memory of Motley H. Flint ............201
Eulogy in memory of Jacob Nieto.........~ ........................................205
Eulogy in memory of John H. Logie.................................:............208
Report of Committee on Necrology................................................ 197
Misrepresentation in Petition-Report of Jurisprudence Committee................................................................................................27, 298
Morton, Oakley K .-Eulogy by................................................................208

N
Narodni Ve1ika Loze Cestko Slovenska-Recognized........................291
National Grand Lodge of Colombia, Barranquilla-Recognized......292
National Grand Lodge of Colombia, Car.tagena-Recognized........292
Naval Service-Residential qualifications...................................... 166, 284
Necrology-Flint, Motley H ..........................................:.......................... 8
Logie, John H....................................................................................... 8
Nieto, Jacob .........................'·····························-··············-··················· 8
Grand Master's Message.................................................................... 7
Reports and eu'logies .......................................................................... 197
Negro Masonry-(See Clandestine) ........................................................231
New Lodges-Dispensation to form ........................................................ 21
Nieto, Jacob-Memorial services ........................................................8, 205
Nueva Leon, Grand Lodge-Recognition deferred ..............................294

ix
Page

0
Oakland-Annual communication to be held at ................211, 288, 350
Objection to advancement-Law defined ................................................296
Officers of Grand Lodge.......................................................... :............ 365
Officers since 1850........................................................................................396
Officers Clubs-Grand Master's reference to ........................................ 22
Oration, Annual-By William C. Hassler............................................ 69

.4;

p
Pacific, Grand Lodge of-Recognition deferred ....................................294
Paraguay, Grand Lodge of-Recognition deferred ............................294
Park Commission-Thanks to...........................'. .............................. 165, 289
Past Grand Masters present...................................................................... 6
Pay of Members-Appropriation for ..........................~ ...........................361
Report of Committee............................................................................270
Peninsula Lodge No. 620-Name changed to Point L oma ..53, 165, 298
Perine, George M.- Regrets at absence.................................................. 6
Petition-Misrepresentation by candidate......................................27, 298
Point Loma Lodge No. 620-Name changed from
Peninsula..................................................................................53, 165, 298
Policy and General Purposes-Report oL.~ ...................................... :...279
Politics-Grand Master's comments........................................................ 31
Portrait of Grand Master ordered............................................................357
Prague, Grand Lodges at-Recognized..................................................291
Pub1ic Schools Week-Grand Master's reference to ....................30, 40
· Report of Committee ............................................................................ 186

Q
Qualification of Wardens ..........................................................280, 353, 354

R
Relief-(See Report of Board of Control) ............................................237
Repc;>rt of-Board of Control...................:..................................................237
Committee on Accounts ...............................................................•...... 170
Committee on By-La·ws .....................................................................•268
Committee on Charters......................................................................268
Committee on Clandestine Masonry.................................................231

x

INDEX

INDEX

xi

Page

Page

Credential Committee .......................................................................... 170
Committee on Endowment................................................................ 170
Committee on Finance-Annual Report........................................354
Audit of Accounts........................................................................356
Budget for Grand Lodge............................................................ 363
Conference of Grand Secretaries..............................................359
Digest of Decisions...:..................................................................357
Employment service appropriation..........................................355
Expenses of Activities Committee..........................................361
Expenses of Grand Master ........................................................356
Grand Lecturer to Hawaii...................................................: ...... 360
Harmony Lodge, assistance to.,................................................ 359
Library Committee........................................................................ 357
Masonic Education........................................................................358
Masonic History...................................................., ....................... 355
Masonic Homes ............................................................................... 358
Past Grand Master Henderson, relief for ...:..........................362
Pay of Members ............................................................................361
Per capita tax.....,..........................................................................361
Portrait of Grand Master............................................................357
Reim'b ursements .......................................................................~..354
Retrenchment by Lodges...........................................................,357
Salaries ............................................................................................360
U . C. Masonic Clubs .................................................................... 356
Veteran Lodge No. 373................................................................362
Welcome Lodge No. 255, Reimbursement............................359
Committee on Financing Masonic Temples .................................. 229
Committee on Grand Lecturer's Report........................................213
CommiHee on Grand Master's Message.......................................... 65
Committee on Grievances ..................................................................271
Committee on Jurisprudence-Application for affi'liation
form of................................................................................................352
Affiliation-Dual membership ............................:.......................352
Annual Communication where held ........................................349
A ppeal-Trial recor ds ..................................................................350
Charges to be transmitted to Grand Secretary............281, 352
'Change of L odge name ...................................~---····'············.········298
Compilation of Laws ....................................................23, 301, 357
Dua'! Membership ................................ 36, 165, 286, 294, 299, 349
Duty of Mason to be member of L odge.............. 168, 283, 349
Elk Grove L odge vs. Harding Lodge....................................299
Exclusive jurisdiction, request for ............................................300

Foreign Language Lodges................................................287, 352
Misrepresentation in petition ..............................................27, 298
Suspension of Master. ...........:.............................................25, 295
Wardens-Qualification of........................................280, 353, 354
West Gate Lodge No. 335-Advancement......................26, 296
Committee on Library .......................... ,............................................. 172
Committee on N ecrology.................................................................... 197
Committee on Pay of Members ........................................................270
Committee on Policy and Genera'! Purposes..................................279
Anniversary of Birth of George Washington ........................289
Annual Communication at Oakland........................................288
Cabinets for Lodges .................................................................... 279
Claim against Aahmes T emple ................................................282
Committee on Education.................................:..........................281
Degree Teams .. ,.............................................................................281
Dual Membership......................................................:................... 294
Expenses of Grand Master........................................................284
Foreign Grand Lodges-Recognized ......................................290
Foreign Language Lodges..........................................................287
Form of application for affiliation ....................................:.......286
Grand Secretary..............................:.............................................279
Group balloting..............................................................................287
Long Beach T emple....................................................................282
Masonic History ............................................................................284
Masonic Library of Southern California ... ,......................21, 280
Non-affiliates ................................................................................282
Persons in Naval service............................................................284
Qualification of W ardens ..........................................280, 353, 354
Removal of place of meeting ......................................................288
Standing of Masons whose dues are remitted ......................285
Standing of restored Masons ..............................................:....... 283
Thanks to Park Commission........................................... ~ ..........289
Trial Records to be filed .........,..................................................280
Committee on Public Schools W eek. ............................................... 186
Commhtee on R eport of Grand Secret ary ...................................... 68
Committee on Returns ........................................................................214
Masonic Temple Association............................................................267
Representatives appoin ted .......................................................................... 52
R estored Masons-Standing of..................................................:...............283
Retrenchment by Lodges recommended................................................357
Returns-Report of Committee on..........................................................214

xii

INDEX

s

Page

Salaries of Grand Officers .....................,.................................................::.360
Seal Rock Lodge No. 536-Restoration of charter.............................. 18
Sherman, William A-Eulogy by............................................................205
Suspension of Master-Report of Jurisprudence Committee ......25, 295
Swiss Grand Lodge, Alpina-Recognized.................................- ...........291

T
Temblor Lodge No. 477-Petition for particular
jurisdiction.......:..:.....................................................................20, 44, 300
Transcripts of Tria•l Records-To be filed with Grand Secretary.. 280
Trial Records-Appeal.. .............................................................................. 350
Charges to be sent to Grand Secretary.......................................... 28
List 0£.................................................................................~....................... 53
Reports of Committee on Grievances ..............................................271

u
U. C. Berkeley Club House-Report of Trustees .............................. 182
U. C. L. A. Club House-Dedication of.......................................... 17, 175
Report of Directors.........................................................................,.....•. 173
U. C. Masonic Clubs-Appropriation for .................... ~.........................356

v
Vallee ·de Mexico-Request for r ecognition........................ ~ ....... 165, 294
Venezuela, Grand Lodge-Recognition deferred .......,........................294
Vera Cruz, Grand Lodge-Recognition deferred ..:...............................294
Veteran Lodge No. 373-Finance .Committee report on....................362
Veteran Masons-List of 50 year members.......................................... 44
Visitations by Grand Master.................................................................... 13

w
Wardens, Qualification of........................................................280, 353, 354
Warren G. Harding L odge No. 579-Complaint of Elk Grove
Lodge against ................................................................................ 165, 299
Washington, George-Anniversary of birth.......................................... 289
Washington ·Memorial-Grand Master's reference to ........................ 13
Welcome Lodge No. 255-Reimbursement............................................359
West Gate Lodge No. 335- Relative to "stop" order..................26, 296
Willow Glen Lodge-Charter granted....................................................269
Dispensation issued..........................................................................22, 52

z
Zu den drei Ringen Grand Lodge recognized ......................................291
Zur Sonne Grand Lodge recognized ........................................................291

John Stewart Ross
Grand Muter 193o.193l

John "'i· •r·
jur™lid~. ,
The ..,...,. ·

' •

wily~

l

I

••I

received •·

B.

~le$,:

dqr~ of I.I

siN,.W-~ Gtimd ~stet of M~ns ia the

-1,.-1

was b<i,frl May

••
••

r

l879c. a~ ~1 Nebraska.

~tr tW##-fter. and he r«:eiv.«l hlil

school» of r~; San 1 ~ and. Loa
.the Li>s ~ High School in 1897 he
.: •· at tlw t,!niv~iv t.Jf .Ca.lifotnia in 19ll2, and the, Harvard :t;1w ~boot in the 1illl.r 1905.

the

Oa "f 1906, M waii married tn the charmi#g ~ra Bramlett ·
Fre.sno l'l#d trt them W'ln: born two daughters, Isabel.la and Anna Hea.d,
and two i;.
elt arut John Q(,rdon. The {amity made ~t home at
·1..-0s i.., 1
.,,..
he J>r•cti¢ed J;lw from 1906 until 1910, in which · •
he took ·up bis ~n<m a.t Et (;°entr(J in the Imperial Vallct. where M
lived and ~uttt to , I
utrtil m1. Upo1:1 his electWn and installation as I • "' CiawJ W,arden he remrNcd JUs family to ~ Angeles and
I

closed his once b~ law offit:~ at El

Durmt tWt perfQd

his re9idence in luiJ)eriat Valley be was the legal
tM birgest conwtns apeutin,g there, including
the lmtietial t.r~Je.n Dist(~ am! was active in all fraternal and civic
affairs. I .1'¢t'vcd .as imtnber an4 Pw;idetrt of the Board of Directors of
the Centr11.t
High ~ooi District Pruide\rt of the El Centro
Rotary Club; .~~ af the Dii!trict GQv-unor- i.rt the orgamiation
of R<Jtar-1 Otihl at C~~ I
and H<>ltville; and President of
the itnperiat
Scottish Rite Ctuh:
repres~e -n.f some

JohJ'l Ste-~rt

• was rai&W a Master Mason in Highland Park

L<Xlge, No. 38".2 011
9, 1910,
~ftltPon began a long, busy career
in the Masonic · n
" He received bis Cnapter Degreci$ in Los AngClcs
Chapter No. JJ, R.
September, 1910, and the Council in Los
An9eles Council No. 1
NovetJ!ber, 1910; he was knight-eel in Irnperi.t
Valley Commandery No. 2°' ' • 14, 1916. He received the Scottish Rite
Degl'"ees from the 4th
t~ .!1 «inetudklg on October 6, 1~111, in the

JOHN STEWART ROSS
Grand Master
1930

John Stewart Ross
Grand Master 1930-1931

John Stewart Ross, sixty-fourth Grand Master of Masons in the
jurisdiction of California, was born May 21, 1879, at Osceola, Nebraska.
The. family removed to California shortly thereafter, and he received his
early education in the public schools of Pomona, San Diego and Los
Angeles, graduating from the Los Angeles High School in 1897; he
received his A.B. degree at the University of .California in 1902, and the
degree of LL.B. from Harvard Law School in the year 1905.
On May 5, 1906, he was married to the charming Dora Bramlett of
Fresno and to them were born two daughters, Isabella and Anna Head,
and two sons, Neil and John Gordon. The family made their home at
Los Angeles where he practiced law ~rom 1906 until 1910, in which year
he took up his residence at El Centro in the Imperial Valley, where he
lived and continu<!d to practice until 1927. Upon his election and installation as Junio_r Grand Warden he removed his family to Los Angeles and
closed his once busy law office at El Centro.
During the period of his residence in Imperial Valley he was the legal
representative of some of the largest concerns operating there, including
the Imperial Irrigation District, and was active in all fraternal and civic
affairs. He served as member and President of the Board of Directors of
the Central Union High School District; President of the El Centro
Rotary Club; representative of the District Governor in the organization
of Rotary Clubs at Calipatria, Brawley and Holtville; and President of
the Imperial Valley Scottish Rite Club.
John Stewart Ross was raised a Master Mason in Highland Park
Lodge, No. 382, on June 9, 1910, and thereupon began a long, busy career
in the Masonic vineyard. He received his Chapter Degrees in Los Angeles
Chapter No. 33, R. A. M., in September, 1910, and the 'Council in Los ·
Angeles Council No. 11, in November, 1910; he was knighted in Imperial
Valley Commandery No. 24, March 14, 1916. He received the Scottish Rite
Degrees from the 4th to the 32nd concluding on October 6, 1911, in the

•• >.

•

Los Angeles Bodies; he was coroneted K. C. C. H. in October, 1919, and
was elected to the 33rd Degree in October, 1927.
During the years of his activities he served as Worshipful Master of
El Centro Lodge No. 384, Inspector of his Masonic District, member of
the Grievance Committee of Grand Lodge, member of the Board of
Trustees of the Masonic Hom~s, High Priest of El Centro Chapter
No. 109, Commander of Imperial Valley Commandery No. 24, Inspector
of the Grand Commandery, Potentate of Al Bahr Temple, San Die~o, and
its representative to the Imperial Council. He was elected Junior ~rand
Warden of the Grand Lodge in October, 1927, and has devoted hiplself
to Masonry from that time forward, being elected Grand Master in 1930.
His frank and outspoken stand for the right as he sees it ~as won
for him the respect and admiration of .his fellow citizens as well as his
brethren in Masonry.

~ranil ijohgr of <ttalifornia
I, JOHN WmcHER, Grand Secretary of the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby
certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of
the proceedings of that body at its Eighty-second Annual Communication,
commenced at the city of San Francisco on Tuesday, the thirteenth day of
October, A. L. 5931, and terminated on Friday, the sixteenth day of October, A. L. 5931.

lfn Weeltmony lll~rreof.
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed the seal of the Grand
Lodge of the jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary, in the city of
San Francisco, this twentieth
day of October, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred Thirty-one.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

1J1 rrr anh i\rrrptrh :!lasnns
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Eighty-second Annual Communication
. HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO

_J

COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 13th, A. D. 1931, A. L. 5931
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 16th, A. D. 1931, A. L. 593 1
SAN FRANCISCO
Thomas C. Conmy, 509 Sansome St.
1931

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE

For the Year Commencing October, A. L5931

OF

Grand Master............................................................ Robert B. Gaylord ( 188)
Russ Building, San Francisco
Deputy Grand Master............. ·······•···:---····················Frank W. Mixter (424)
Exeter
•
Senior Grand Wa'rden ........................................................ James B. Gist (202) ·
Security First National Bank, Guaranty Office, Los Angeles
Junior Grand Warden ...............................,.................. William A. Sitton ( 20)
Mitau Building, Sacramento
·
Grand Treasurer ...................... _.: .............................. William P. Filmer (260)
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco
Grand Secretary...................................... :........................ ~ .. John Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Lecturer ....................................................... ,...... Thomas J. Baker ( 58)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Chaplain ........................................................................] ohn Snape ( 349)
Temple Baptist Church, Los Angeles
Grand Orator ....................................................................James T. Fraser ( 79)
Eureka
Asst. Grand Secretary............ ,........... ,......................... Frank G. Hobbs (531)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Marshal... .................................................Henry G. Mathewson (514)
State Building, San Francisco
Grand Standard Bearer.................................................. Frank A. Frye (296)
,
San Diego
Grand Sword Bearer.........,............................... ;................John M. Ross (330)
Hakalau, Hawaii, T. H.
Grand Bible Bearer .......................................... .'..... Wm. S. MacMurtry (188)
1135 Bay View Avenue, Oakland
Senior·Grand Deacon.....:...................... :: .. ,............. ;..... Warren E. Libby ( 442)
1015 Spring St., Arcade Bldg., Los Angeles
Junio.r Grand Deacon...................................................... Sidney B. Force ( 113)
3021 Fruitvale Avenue, Oakland
Senior Grand Steward............................................ Herbert C. Goldman .(674)
247 Loma Avenue, Long Beach
Junior Grand Steward................................................ Chas. H.J. Rausch (128)
P. 0. Box 936, Visalia
Grand Pursuivant... ......................................................... Warren D. Gill (608)
42 East Main Street, Alhambra
Grand Organist... ..................................................... Charles E. Anderson (374)
1717 Cabrillo St., San Francisco
Grand Tiler .................................................................... Frank G. Watson (354)
2736 Franklin St., San Francisco

111rrr atth Arrrptrh ilasntts
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Eighty-second Annual Communication
The Most W'Orshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the jurisdiction of California commenced its eightysecond Annual Communicatio~ in the Masonic Temple, Van
Ness avenue and Oak street, San Francisco, on Tuesday, October 13, A. L. 5931, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
Grand Officers
M.',W,'.JoHN STEWART .Ross .................
Grand Master
R.·.w. ',ROBERT B. GAYLORD ............................................Deputy Grand Master
R.'.W.'.FRANK W. MIXTER............................................Senior Grand Warden
R.'.W,'.JAMES B. GrsT................................................... .1-unior Grand Warden
V. · .W. ·.JOHN WHICHER ................;............................................Grand Secretary
v.·.w.·.THOMAS J. .BAKER.......................................................... Grand Lecturer
W. ·.GEORGE DAVIDSONc ......................................................... Grand Chaplain
W. ·.LESLIE E. LEARNED ..................... - ................................... Grand Orator
W.'.FRANK G. HoBBS ............................ :.................Asst. Grand Secretary
W. ·.HENRY G. MATHEWSON ................................................ Grand Marshal
W. ·.FRANK A., FRYE .............................................. Grand Standard Bearer
W. ·.JOHN T. MorR ................ :..................................... Grand Sword Bearer
W. ·.HARRY HoRNE ........................................................ Grand Bible Bearer
W.'.CLARENCE H. EcKERT.... '.". ..................................Senior Grand Deacon
W.'.EnwARD A. REINKE ........................................... .1-unior Grand Deacon
W.'.HERBERT C. GoLDMAN ....................... : ......•....•.•Senior Grand Steward
W.'.WARREN D. GrLL ...................................................... Grand Pursuivant
W. ·.CHAS. E. ANDERSON .................................................... Grand Organist
W. ·.FRANK G. WATSON ..............................................................Grand Tiler

:=:J...........................

(435)

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

437

Past Grand Masters
M.'.W.'.FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI
M.'.W.'.ORRIN s. HENDERSON
M.'.W.'.DANA R. WELLER
M.'.W.'.]OHN D. MURPHEY
M.'.W.'.BENJ. F. BLEDSOE
M.'.W.'.BRADFORD WEBSTER
M.'.W.'.CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M.'.W.'.GEORGE F. RODDEN
M.'.W.'.SAMUEL E. BURKE

M.'.W.'.W~LLIAM A. SHERMAN
M.'.W.'.ARTHUR s. CRITES
M.'.W,.'.DAVID J. REESE
M.'.W.'.ALBERT E. BOYNTON
M.'.W.'.GEORGE L. }ONES
M.'.W.'.WILL H. FISCHER
W.'.M.'.GusTAV A. HuTAFF
M.'.W.'.CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG

And 1525 officers and representatives from 574 chartered ..
Lodges.
.
The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the follow;
ing appointments:
Grand Treasurer: Chas. A. English.
· Junior Grand Steward: Chas. H.J. Bausch.

this we ask in the name of Him who taught us to lift our hearts as
one great family unto Thee and to say together, Our Father which
art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name, Thy kingdom come, Thy will
be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against
us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil; For
thine is the kingdom; and the power, and the glory, forever. Amen.

Telegrams and letters of felicitation were received from
Past Grand Masters Filmer, Keesling, Hervey and Thomas
Flint, and from the Grand Lodge of Nevada; from Frank
Ebbett, our Representative near the Grand Lodge of Canada; also from Grand Chapter, Order of Eastern Star, and
from Chas. Melvin, President of the Masonic Affiliated Club
U. C. L. A., and the Grand Master of Loui~iana. · ~
'

And Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with song
by the choir, and

Prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
Almighty and everlasting God, our Heavenly Father, our Refuge
and Strength, in whom we live and move and have our being! We
come before Thee in a humble sense of our dependence upon Thee for
all that we have or are or hope to be, beseeching Thee to keep us
under Thy watchful Providence and to bless this meeting of Master
Masons in Grand Lodge assembled. Protect our country, guard our
homes, and sanctify our lives. So guide our hearts that we may use
and not abuse the Liberty wherewith Thou hast made us free. In times
of prosperity kindle within us a spirit of grateful service, and in adversity endue us with courage, faith and sympathy for others. May
truth, purity and charity abound and dwell within us and within the
hearts of all the members of our craft withersoever dispersed throughout the world. And we humbly beseech Thee to bless us now in this
·our present undertaking. Direct us in all our doings with Thy most
gracious favor, and further us with Thy continual help, that in all our
deliberations and decisions-begun, continued and ended in Thee, we
may glorify Thy Holy Name and finally attain everlasting life. All of

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

438

MESSAGE OF GRAND MASTER
·. Brethre11 of the Gran.d Lodge:

Today we assemble for the eighty-second Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of the · jurisdiction of California. One year
ago, when you installed me as Grand Master, I faced the responsibilities and duties you bade me assume, as a challenge. I am before
you at this hour to present an account of my official acts during the .
year, to exhibit the general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction, and to recommend such legislation as I deem expedient for the
welfare of the craft. I fully realize that I have not measured up to
the full standard set by the honor, dignity, and importance of. the,
office, but I have done my best.
Necrology
During the year death has invaded the ranks of our Grand officers
four separate times. William T. Lucas, for many years our Senior
Past Grand Master; Charles E. Glidden, Grand Bible Bearer; William
C. Hassler, Past Grand Orator; and William Kettner, Past Grand
Marshal, will be missed at this and all future communications of
Grand Lodge. I am glad to have the opportunity here to say that .
they were good Masons and good men, and I, as well as all the other
members of this Grand Lodge, feel a deep sense "of personal affliction
at their loss. Suitable tributes to the memory of each of them will be
read in connection with the report of the Committee on Necrology
and may be published in the proceedings of this communication.
I have appointed Harry Horne, a venerable Past Master of Redlands Lodge No. JOO, to fill the vacancy in the office of Grand Bible
Bearer. He is known and loved by all in the 104th, 105th and 106th
Masonic districts.
The Committee on Necrology will report the loss of many Past
Masters who were entitled to sit here with us.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

439

At San Francisco, October 23, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the
Marine Hospital at that city.
At South Pasadena, November 3, 1930, to dedicate the Masonic
Temple at that city.
At Altadena, November 4, 1930, to constitute Altadena Lodge
No. 678.
At Los Angeles,. November 6, 1930, to constitute Liberal Arts
Lodge No. 677.
At Santa Paula, November 17, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the
Masonic Temple at that city.
.
At Santa Ana, December 5, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the
Masonic Temple at that city.
·
At Altadena, December 5, 1930, to dedicate , the Masonic Temple
at that city.
,
At Perris, December 12, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the High
School Gymnasium.
·
At San Bernardino, December 17, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of .
the Federal Building at that city.
At Los Angeles, December 22, 1930, to receive the 'G rand M°aste'r
of Arizona, on the occasion of his visit to this jurisdiction to install ,
his son as Worshipful Master of our Mizpah Lodge No. 378.
At Escalon, January 16, 1931, to dedicate the Masonic Temple
at that city.
·
At Burbank, January 22, 1931, to dedrcate the Masonic Temple
at th.at city.
At Martinez, March 26, 1931, to dedicate the Masonic Temple
at that city.
At Santa Barbara, April 7, 1931, to lay the .cornerstone of McKinley School at that city.
At Santa Barbara, May 21 , 1931, to lay the cornerstone of Jefferson School at that city.
·
At Pomona, September 1, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of the ., .
Federal .Building at that .city.
.
.

Special Communications of Grand Lodge .

At S!lnta Paula, September .21,' 1931, to dedicate the Masonic
Temple at that city,'
. ,

Grand Lodge was convened in Special Communication by the
officers noted, at the times and places following:

At Los Angeles, September 24, 1931, to dedicate Southland Masonic Temple.
At Glendale,. September 26, · 1931, to dedicate the monument'
erected by the Masons~ ~f· Los Angeles in Forest Lawn Memorial
Park to the memory of \cparted brethren.

By the Grand Master:

At San Jose, October 18, 1930, to constitute Willow Glen Lodge
No. 676.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At Santa Ana, October 2, 1931, to dedicate the Masonic Temple
at that city.
By the Deputy Grand Master, Robert B. Gaylord:
At Oakland, November 14, 1930, at 1 :30 o'clock, for the purpose
of laying the cornerstone of the Maxwell Park School at that place.
At Oakland, August 22, 1931, at 2 o'clock, to lay the cornerstone
of the Fremont High School.
By the Junior Grand Warden, James B. Gist:
At Long Beach, March 23, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of the
Municipal Auditorium at that place.
At Santa Ana, August 15, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of the
Postoffice Building at that place.
By the Grand Standard Bearer, Frank A. Frye:
At San Diego, April 25, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of the Silver
Gate Masonic Te.mple at that place.
At Honolulu, by Lester Petrie:
November 25, 1930, to lay the cornerstone of the Shriners' Hospital for Crippled Children at that place.
At Kahul11i, Maui, by Marquis F. Calmes, Master Maui Lodge No. 472:
April 20, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of the Territorial Office
Building at that place.
The ceremonies of laying t)le cornerstones of the Masonic Temple
at Santa Paula and of the Federal Building at Pomona were performed at night under the electric lights. I know of no previous
occasion on which such a ceremony has been performed at night, but
I believe that in each instance the change in hour added to the attendance and the beauty of the ceremony in every way.

The time came, however, when prudence and wisdom suggested
the consideration of other arrangements. A committ ee was therefore
appointed by the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles to consider
the abandoning of the Masonic cemetery and the removal of the
bodies theretofore interred, to another cemetery. Thus t he Masonic
section of Fo1>est Lawn came into being.
The contract for the purchase of the plot was entered into in
the fall of 1917. The contract with Forest Lawn set forth the expressed desire on the part of the Masons to have a plot adequate for
all the reasonable needs of memb ers of the fratern ity and for the
erection in t his plot of a memorial appropriately representative of
Masonry. This memorial is distinctive for many reasons: its very
hugeness makes it impressive; it is situated on a lot 43 73 feet by 54
feet; the size of the memorial itself is 39 feet by 44 feet 10 inches.
Into its design have been woven many of the cardinal principles of
Masonry·: the three, five, and seven steps; the two columns, one with
the terrestrial and the other wit h the celestial sphere, and the altar
with the Bible opened whereat is t he Divine command, "Let there be
Light." Around the altar there have been inscribed those virtues
which form the foundation of Masonry-"Brotherly Love, Relief,
Truth."
The Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction of California having been
invited by the Masons of Los Angeles to dedicate this beautiful
monument, it was by me convened at Glendale, California, on the
26th day of September, 1931; and at 3 :30 p. m. the Maso nic Memorial
Monument was dedicated accord ing to the ancient form and usage to
the cardinal principles of Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth. A tablet
appropriately and symbolically ties in the dale of its dedieation with
that of the founding of Masonry.
The Masons of Los Angeles are to be congratulated not only on
this beautiful monument, but as well on the Masonic section of Forest
Lawn Memorial Park.

440

Dedication of Masonic Memorial Monument,
Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale
Masonry always has been vitally concerned with proper inter. ment of its deceased . members. The first Ma~onic cemetery in Los
Angeies was established in 1861 or 1862, or about eight or nine years
after the establishment of the first Masonic Lodge in that city. The
· property was located on what is known as Fort Hill, overlooking the
site of the present City and County buildings. For fifteen or sixteen
· years, aside from the Catholic cemetery, the Masonic cemetery was
the only burial ground in Los Angeles.
·
Shortly. after the beginning of the present century, a tract of
some twenty acres was acquired on what was then known as Stephenson avenue, and now known as Whittier boulevard.

441

Aahmes Temple Widows and Orphans Fund
At our last annual communication, the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommended that the controversy over a death
benefit of $1500.00 claimed by the Masonic Homes of California from
the Widows and Orphans Fund of Aahmes Temple "should be adjusted by Masons in a spirit of kindness, and on a basis of equity,"
and that a special committee of three be appointed with fu ll power to
adjust. While Grand Lodge concurred in this recommendation, I felt
that the Masonic attitude of the brethren who administer and compose
the Fund on the one hand, and the brethren who are the Trustees of

44<:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

our Homes on the other, was such that the matter could be adjusted
without the necessity of a formally appointed committee.
The committee's report erroneously referred to the claim as one
against Aahmes Temple. The Temple, as such, has no control over
the Fund, and the fund consists of only a portion. of the members
of the Temple who voluntarily join.
Believing that all differenC!!S of opinion should be reconciled in
a spirit of Masonic brotherhood, rather than on any basis of technical
legal rights, I discussed the situation at length with Brother Herbert
L. Breed, the chairman of the Fund, and found him more than willing .
to meet me in this spirit. Both he and his committee whom he specially
called together, agreed that under the circumstances existing in this
unfortunate case, where the beneficiary was a resident of the Decato
Home at the time of his death, and also at the time he became delinquent to Aahmes Temple, it would be a most graceful Masonic act
for the Fund to pay the amount to the Homes.
Brother Breed called a largely attended general meeting of the
Fund to consider the situation, at which I was present. After fully
and fairly stating the situation, he recommended· that, without regard
to its legal rights, the F.und voluntarily make the payment as an exemplification of Masonic charity. His recommendation was unanimously
approved, and the amount has been paid to the Trustees of the Homes.
I am glad to be able to report that because of this voluntary payment by the Fund, any discussion of legal rights in the premises
becomes unnecessary. However, Grand Lodge should understand
that the committee in charge of the Fund is bound to administer it in
accordance with its by-laws; of this there can be no ·doubt; equally,
there can be and is no question in the mind of anyone that when payment was refused, the administrative officers of the Fund acted in
accordance with what they were and still are convinced is a proper
construction of the by-laws of the Fund, and their legal obligations
to th~ Fund and its membership.
It is true that Brother Alexander was in suspension in the Fund
by reason of not having paid his dues to Aahmes Temple, though he
was not in arrears in the payment of his assessments to the Fund.
I commend Brother Breed and his committee for the truly
Masonic spirit which they have exemplified in recommending that the
amount be voluntarily and willingly paid to our Masonic Homes,
·n otwithstanding their conviction a·s to the lack of legal responsibility.
I also express to the membership of the Fund the appreciation of
Grand Lodge for concurring in the recommendation of the Administrative Committee.

Elk Grove Lodge vs. Warren G. Harding Lodge
At our last communication, the Committee on Jurisprudence recommended that the charges filed by Elk Grove Lodge No.• 173 against
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579, in which it is claimed that the
latter named Lodge knowingly and willfully received and acted upon
the petition for degrees of a man residing in the jurisdiction of Elk
Grove Lodge, without notice or request for waiver, ·be referred to the
Grand Master for such action as he may deem necessary. In this
r.e corrimendation Grand Lodge concurred.
I assigned the matter to Brother L. E. Wood, Inspector of the
22d District. He went, in company with the Master, Wardens and
Secretary of Warr en G. Harding Lodge~ to Elk Grove and met with a
committee of Elk Grove Lodge. The two Lodges adjusted their differences amicably and satisfactorily without the necessity of action
by a commission elec~ed to try the cause.

443

Suspension of a Master
At our last annual communication, the Board of Control reported
(1930 Proc. p. 255) facts which it termed "A striking case" and on
the recommendation of the Board of Control, Grand Lodge ordered
the Lodge in question to reimburse the Los Angeles Board of Relief
for funds amounting to $197.00 in the relief of one of its members.
On a demand for the funds by the Board of Relief after the November
stated meeting of said Lodge, the Master replied that the matter was
continued to the December stated meeting. After the December stated
meeting the Board of Relief was again informed by the Master that
he had postponed action until the January meeting. It appearing that
his successor had been elected and would be installed before the
January stated meeting, I suspended the Master from office just
before his successor was installed, because of his ·continued defiance
of constituted authority as evidenced by his refusal to comply with
the mandate of Grand Lodge and because of his previous actions as
fully set forth by the Board of Control. This action .deprived him of
the rank of Past Master.
His successor in office immediately caused the reimbursement
of the Los Angeles Board of Relief. The Lodge has since then, with
the co-operation of the Board of Relief of Los Angeles, been doing
its full duty toward its member in distress and his wife and daughter.
Visit of the Grand Master of Arizona
As an account of our inter-jurisdictional courtesy, I quote from
the address of the Most Worshipful Amos Arthur Betts, Grand Master
of Masons of the Jurisdiction of Arizona, at the forty-ninth Annual
Communication of his Grand Lodge in February of this year:

PROCEEDINGS . OF THE

GRAND LODGE o~~ CALIFORNIA

"The event which brought to me the greatest personal pleasure
and pride of the year was the occasion of the installation of the
officers of Mizpah Lodge No. 378, of Los Angeles, on the evening
of December 22, 1930. At that time my beloved and only. son, Forest
Arthur Betts, was elevated to the honorable and distinguished position
of Master of that Lodge.
"It had been my privilege and pleasure during the period· that I
was serving this Grand Lodge as Grand Lecturer, to confer upon
Forest the Entered Apprentice,· Fellow Craft and Master Mas.o n
Degrees. For the more recent distinction, pleasure and honor above
mentioned, I am indebted to the officers and members of Mizpah
Lodge No. 378. Mere words are inadequate to express my appreciation
and gratitude for the courtesy thus extended to me.
"The occasion was made more memorable, happy and enjoyable
by the action of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, John Stewart
Ross of the Grand Lodge of California, in convening the Grand
Lodge in special communication for the purpose of officially receiving
· me as its guest. Several Grand Lodge officers, including a number
of Past Grand Masters, were present. My reception was cordial and
gracious and the honor was emphasized by the Grand Master in
tendering to me the gavel and permitting me to seat the assemblage.
"The Grand Jurisdiction of Arizona has always been proud of
the fact that it is a child of the Grand Lodge of California. Four of
the five Lodges existing at the time of organization of our Grand
Lodge had received their authority from California. The bond of
fraternal friendship has been strengthened and cemented from year
to year and I know that it will grow more precious from time to time."
I am sure the Grand Lodge .o f California joins with Grand Master
Betts in this sentiment.

The meeting on the second day was held at the Lodge rooms of
Alexandria-Washington Lodge.
At this meeting, M:. ·W:. Melvin M. Johnson, Past Grand Master
of Massachusetts, and one of the directors of the Association, called
the attention of the members in no uncertain terms to the fact that
the proposed expenditnres for the coming year allowed nothing for
interior finish, and that unless additional funds were received we
would .be obliged to dedicate in May, 1932, a building whose interior
was absolutely unfinished.
He also stated that the willingness of other jurisdictions, including Massachusetts, to adopt the so-called New York plan of bringing
subscriptions up to $1.70 per capita was contingent upon those jurisdictions which 'had not filled their original quota of $1.00 per capita,
doing their share.
This talk was particularly pertinent as nineteen Grand J urisdictions with Masonic population of 1,620,000, still lacked nearly $1,000,000
of filling their original quota.
When I presented our check representing our fourth payment
pledged by this Grand Lodge, I stated that I hoped that we would
be able to have the fifth payment made during this year, so that the
amount might ; be used before May of 1932. Accordingly as we had
on hand $25,000 that by our previous custom would have been held
over to present at the next meeting of the Association, I caused a
check for that amount to be sent on the 13th day of August as a
part of our 1931 payment. The balance is available to be paid at this
time, which when paid will complete the payment of our original
quota, the amount heretofore pledged by this Grand Lodge.
This memorial is our building, and the honor of the whole Fraternity throughout the United States is involved in seeing that this
structure is properly completed as soon as possible. I recommend
that at this communication of Grand Lodge, proper action be taken
to continue our contributions to meet with the terms of the so-called
New York plan . .
lt is to be hoped that other jurisdictions will not only realize their
responsibility but will assume their share of the financing of this
project which is rightfully theirs.

444

George Washington Memorial
On February 23d and 24th in company with Past Grand Master
Albert E . Boynton, a director of the Association, and our Grand Secretary, John Whicher, I attended, as your Representative, the meeting
of the George Washington National Memorial Association, at Alexandria, Virginia.
The first day's session was held in the auditorium of the Memorial
Building. The tower, the top of which is 333 feet from the ground,
had been completed during the past year, enabling all to grasp the
beauty and dignity of this wonderful structure.
During the year approximately $245,000 had been expended. Plans
for the corning year, contingent upon the receipt of sufficient funds,
call for installation of plumbing, heating and ventilating systems, a
power house, a roadway, and the placing of the windows at an estimated cost of $221,000.
At this meeting about $150,000 was received from various jurisdictions, California paying $28,146.80, representing the fourth payment
on the amount this Grand Lodge had theretofore pledged.

445

Grand Masters' Conference
On February 25th we attended the Conference of Grand Masters
of the United States. Forty-four Grand Masters out of a possible
forty-nine were represented, forty in person, two by Deputy Grand
Masters and two b.y Past Grand Masters. In addition there were
present twenty-six Pas•t Grand Masters, twenty-seven Grand Secre-

447

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

taries, seven Deputy Grand Masters and several Grand Wardens and
other .Grand Lodge officers.
·
.
.
I.
· No two grand jurisdictions are going to meet all problems in the
same way. WP.at one Grand Master has found successful in his jurisdiction might not suit conditions in an9ther jurisdiction. As no individual can exist by himself, no Lodge can exist by itself. As Lodges
must get together in each jurisdiction to realize that they arc necessary
to each other, so the opportunity afforded your Grand Secretary and
Grand Master to get together with these leaders of th~ Craft throughout the United States for a three day period, enabled them and us
to know each other better. I believe the future of Masonry depends
upon that spirit of getting together and knowing each other better and
putting into practice all the things we stand for. It brings hs to a
realization that no jurisdiction can sit off by itself and refuse to reap
the benefit of the ideas that it can get from another jurisdiction.
Through mutual understanding of conditions in our jurisdiction and
in the grand jurisdictions with which we may have relations, possible
friction will be avoided.
The outstanding features of the Conference were the able leadership of M:. w:. Herbert W. Dean, Grand Master of Massachusetts,
chairman of the Conference, and the clear-cut analysis of the needs of
present day Masonry if we are to build wisely for the future; by
M:. w:. Charles H. Johnson, Grand Master of New York.
Summing up he said: "Leadership, finance, the preservation of
our members, the quality of the candidates, and the education of our
fraternity in the nature of the art, are all questions, I believe, that we
have to consider very carefully as we look out into the unknown
future."
Many other subjects of interest were discussed with benefit to all.
I ·had the privilege of being at the Conference of Grand Secretaries, held on the second day. This was their fourth conference.
They discussed the inter-jurisdictional relations connected with their
departments. I can report to you definitely that the personal contact
had by' Brother·Whicher with not only the Grand Secretaries but also
with those other leaders of the Craft, has led to a better understanding
and more harmonious and efficient co-operation than had ever been
gained through correspondence aloµe. Furthermore California can
well be proud of the part that he, as one of the most able and well
known leaders of the Craft in the United States, contributed to
Masonry during these meetings at Washington in ' 1931.
Though• the attendance at each conference of Grand Masters. and
each conference of Grand Secretaries has increased m~terially in
numbers
over the precedi~g one, it . is certain
that the attendance in
'
' .

1932 will exceed in numbers and value all preceding ones. In view of
the many benefits that will result to the Grand Lodge of California
because of his presence at those meetings, I recommend that at this
communication we again provide for the presence of Brother Whicher
at the conference at Washington in May 1932.
·

446

Public Schools Week
Public Schools Week has become an institution in California. It
was started by Grand Master Adams and this year we had the twelfth
annual observance. Each year the observance has been under the
direct leadership of Brother Adams and his committee. Through his
painstaking and intelligent study of the reports from each of the
Lodges during the years since he was Grand Master in 1919 he has
been able to develop the Public Schools Week from what at its inception was a Masonic event to the community institution it now is. The
purpose of the observance has gradually enlarged and might now be
stated as follows: To afford an opportunity for the people to be kept
thoroughly informed of California's program of public education, to
combat destructive criticism, to aid in correcting errors which may
creep into the system, and to insure the close contact between the
public and its schools so essential to a continuance of the friendship,
faith and confidence upon which they necessarily depend.
Th~ value of this obs.ervance cannot be judged from experiences
in any one community, in any one year and under any one leadership.
Conditions may be such i~ a community that its necessity may not be
apparent, but if permitted to lapse, its value may become apparent
only when it is too late, for destructive forces work the more effectively when other forces are asleep. In this as in all other things,
leadership is all important.
I desire now to express the sincere thanks of Grand Lodge to
Brother Adams and his committees and to those Masters, Inspectors
and other brethren whose efforts have made the twelfth annual
observance of Public Schools Week so great a success. Brother
Adams; I am sure will give you an interesting account of it.

Masonic History
Masonic history occupies a large place in the interest of the
Lodges throughout the jurisdiction. This fact I have found in my
visits to all sections. · Some of the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands
have their histories already written. The Grand Lodge Committee ori
Masonic History has contacted a large number of the Lodges by
personal visitations, and all of them by correspondence. I have found
a greater interest in Masonry engendered by the work of this committee arid feel free to state that the compilation of the history of

449

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonry in the jurisdiction of California is one of the most popular
enterprises now being carried on by this Grand Lodge. My belief in
this statement is founded on the spontaneous interest that I have met
in every Lodge and by the unselfish attitude of the members of the
committee who have spent a great deal ·of their own time, money
and effort in carrying on this work.
Recognizing the value to this Grand Lodge of a completed history
of Masonry in this jurisdiction, and recognizing further the desire of
the Craft as a whole to have its history written, I recommend that
the Committee on Masonic History be continued, and that the amount
requested by that Committee be appropriated to it for the carrying
forward of its work.
Masonic Education
The necessity of our membership µnderstanding the nature of
the art of Freemasonry, what it means, what its ideals are, what its
purposes are and what its possibilities are in the human soul and in
society as well is realized by all Grand Lodges today. For some years
many Grand Lodges have been experimenting with the hopes of
finding some method of filling this necessity.
Grand Master Bledsoe in 1915 appointed the first Committee on
Masonic Education in this jurisdiction. One year ago I found that a
committee under the chairmanship of Brother Irving Magnes, with
very little change of personnel, had been studying methods and administering this important Grand Lodge activity since 1925. I did not
then know, nor do I now know of any group of men better qualified
to carry on this enterprise. Because of their experience in this work,
I regarded them the best qualified and so re-appointed them as the
Masonic Educatio~al Committee. Realizing tha-t I ·had not sufficient
knowledge of the subject to assist or direct them, I delegated to them
full power and authority to conduct the activity with which they were
charged. The committee will make its report for your consideration.
The place that Massachusetts has reached in its program of
Masonic Education, as reported at the Grand Masters' Conference,
by Grand Master Dean, may i~terest you. H~ said:
·
"Briefly what we are doing is giving up the primary idea of the
education of the whole fraternity, which we found almost impossible
to accomplish, and reaching those . over whom we do have control,
namely, the candidates. We form groups of Lodges running from
3. to 15 which are conveniently located. They agreed to send their
candidates to the school of instruction,. which is instructi.o n not in
the ritual, but in the practical things of Masonry, what Masonry is,
what it is designed to do, the history of Freemasonry, some things
about our charitable enterprises-the Home, the. Hospital, and the
Board of Relief; we tell them what the collateral bodies, so-called,
are which we recognize and we also state very plainly those organizations which are not Masonic and which have no connection with

Masonry as far as we are concerned .. Our idea being to have the
candidates, when they complete the third degree, know ~ore about
Masonry than any of us did when we had COI?pleted our third degree.
We are building for the future, inasmuch as if we proceed at the rate
we are going, with 3500 candidates \!. year, we ~gure that .at the e!ld of
ten years we will have 35,000 Masons who will be running affairs. at
that time and who have the ground work of Freemasons, who reahze
the things that Masonry can do and the things it cannot do.
"These ·Lodges of Instruction
1 while being primarily for candi0
dates are open to all Ma ster Ma sons. We find in many of t~ese
Lodies of Instruction that we are getting 200 to 300 present besides
candidates."
Decisions and Recommendations
The Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction of California is bound to a
"strict adherence to the Ancient Landmarks of the Order, and by the
provisions of its own Constitution and Regulations." (Constitution,
section 7.)
"By a regulation of 'the Grand Lodge is meant any resolutio~,
edict law or ordinance of any kind whatever, other than the Constltutio~, which it may adopt." (Constitution, section 228.)
"The ritual itself constitutes binding law regarding th~ matters
contained in the written law, and as to these matters, the office !Jf the
Constitution and Regulations is substantially to construe the ritual."
(Macka:y's Masonic Jurisprudence.)
The law that binds every Mason in this jurisdiction is to be
found in the Ancient Landmarks of the Order, our Ritual, the Constitution or the Regulations. I have found officers of Lodges attempting to justify illegal actions on their part by asserting that at some
time or other some Grand Lodge officer had advised them to proceed
in the way they were doing. Inasmuch as it is only the decisions of
the Grand Master · that are submitted to Grand Lodge for adoption,
and become Regulations, not necessarily in the form submitted, but
in the form adopted by Grand Lodge, .I have welcomed questions by
Masters on the construction of our laws. I have answered many
questions by a reference to our Constitution or Regulations. In those
instances if the Master had taken the trouble to consult the written
law or even to have asked his Inspector, who could have referred
him' to the written law as well as I, he would have had his answer
when he wanted it, instead of having to wait until the Grand Master
had had time to hunt the answer up for him and communicate it to
him. Those decisions I have rendered are here reported for your
consideration.
Decision 1. At various times Inspectors have asked for an interpretation of the law as to their powers and duties.
The Inspector is appointed by the Grand Master, is the representative of the Grand Master in the district, and as such shall be
received with grand honors on official visits. He, as representa:tive of

448

450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Grand Master, should take such steps as are necessary to require
the officers of the Lodges of his district to comply with the laws of
Grand Lodge, and, if necessary, report infractions of law to the Grand
Master.
He is also the representative of the Grand Lecturer in matters
pertaining to the ritual.

It is his duty to instruct and 1qualify the officers of the Lodges
of his district, and to issue certificates to such as are qualified where
required by sections 136 and 137 of the Constitution. In order that
he may so instru.c t the officers and determine whether or not they
are entitled to receive certificates, he may require attendance of the
officers of his district in one or more groups as may be most convenient in his district, at such times as he or the Grand Lecturer
may direct.
All Masters-elect and Senior and Junior Wardens-elect are
.required by the Constitution to be thoroughly proficient in those
portions of the Constitution and General Regulations of the Grand
Lodge which relate to the government of a Lodge, as well as in
ritual. An Inspector should not give a certificate unless he has knowl~dge that the one receiving it is thoroughly proficient.
Decision 2. My attention has been called to the declaration hv
this Grand Lodge in 1888 (Proc. pp. 464, 678) that "the indispensable
Qualification of a candidate for initiation is that he must have faitli
in the true God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob," and I have been asked
if such a belief is still indispensable.
I answered that in 1857 (Proc. p. 105) this Grand Lodge declared
that Masonry is not a religious order "except insofar as it requires a
helief in the existence and omnipotence of a Supreme Being."
That in 1894 (Proc. pp. 541, 771) Grand Master Orme ruled and
·
his decision was adopted by Grand Lodge, that
'.'0th.er than a belief i.n '.'- Supreme Being, there is ~o religious
qualification for membership m the Masonic order."
In view. of this later decision at variance with the decision of
1888, I held that a belief in God defined as the true God of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob if ever indispensable, can no longer be regarded as
such.
Furthermore, the Jurisprudence Committee points out in app~ov­
ing the decision in 1894, "That law (referring to its statement in the
decision) is older than Grand Lodg.e, and is ·a landmark which no
man or body of men has power to change."
·
In 1913 (Proc. p. 162) this Grand Lodge sets forth " Belief in
God" as one. of the Ancient Landmarks that must be recognized and
supported by a grand body of an English speaking country seeking
recognition by this Grand Lodge.

451

"Landmark Nineteenth" as expressed in "Foundations of Masonic
Law," authorized by this Grand Lodge to be published with the Constitution, is as follows:
"A belief in the existence of God as the Great Architect of the
Universe."
There never was a. time when this belief did not form an essential
part of the Masonic system. Beyond this Masonry offers no definition
of the Supreme Being.
Decision 3. Questions continue to come as to physical qualifications of applicants for the degrees.
I have held:
That our ritual determines this .question and that section 94 of the
Constitution must be read in connection with the ritual and as a
construction thereof.
The amendment to section 94 of the Constitution in 1928 in no
way changed our law as to physical requirements; that the question
involved is a question of fact, rather than a question of law, and those
asking such questions, being in possession of the evidence» were the
best qualified to answer them.
That the 1928 amendment simply permitted the Lodge, after the
Master had stated the nature and extent of the disabilities of the candidate, to determine the fact as to whether or not the maim or defect
in his body would rend~r him incapable of learning the art, and
whether or not he was physically able to conform substantially to
what the several degrees respectively require of him.
That the Lodge may determine this fact by ballot previous to the
voting upon the ballot for th e degrees of Masonry, and if by this
preliminary ballot the applicant is found disqualified because of physical disability the Master may direct the withdrawal of the application
without further action, and such direction shall be entered upon the
record as provided in section 104 of the Constitution.
It is, however, the question of fact of the physical sufficiency of
the candidate that is to be determined and not the question as tu
whether or not the Lodge is willing to admit him in spite of the fact
that he is physically ·insufficient. The latter misconception of the law
is found among many of the Lodges and has led to the admission of
applicants physically insufficient.
I have held that the fact for a Lodge to determine is whether or
not the applicant is physically able to conform substantially to what
the several degrees respectively require of him without the aid of an
artificially substituted hand or leg.
·
Recommendation a : The result of a questionnaire answered by
each Lodge in the jurisdiction, together with my personal investiga-

452

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

453

Decision 4. If a Mason h;i.iling from the Grand Lodge Vallee de
Mexico (said Grand Lodge being recognized by the Grand Lodge of
Arizona but not by the Grand Lodge of California) should affiliate
with a Lodge holding obedience to the Grand Lodge of Arizona and
then withdraw from such Lodge, he could without question lawfully
affiliate with a Lodge of our obedience . .
Query: Could such a Mason lawfully affiliate with one of our
Lodges direct from the Lodge Vallee de Mexico? And if so, should
such Mason be "healed" after election?
My answer: Constitution, section 124, provides "No Lodge shall
. . . admit or hold Masonic intercourse . . . with any Mason not
acknowledged as such by this Grand Lodge." Hence no Lodge of this
jurisdiction can lawfully receive an application for affiliation from a
Master Mason holding a <limit from a regular Lodge of a jurisdiction
not formally recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.
"Healing" is reobligating. A Lodge can not reobligate a Mason
with whom it cannot hold Masonic intercourse. Reobligating is not
necessary under said section 124, and nowhere in our Constitution
is there a provision for healing.

under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Washington. In his
application he stated that his business address and his residence were
Seattle; and that he had lived in the State of Washington four years
and in the city of Seattle three years. He was elected October 13th,
1924, and initiated October 27, 1924. He was passed and raised in
Petaluma Lodge No. 180 under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of
California as a courtesy to Seattle Lodge No. 164.
Complaint was made to the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
of California and on August 20, 1925, he furnished authenticated evidence to the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Washington that
since 1920 petitioner had been a resident continuously within the
jurisdiction of our Turlock Lodge No. 395 and had been rejected by
Turlock Lodge No. 395 on April 7, 1921, and again on May 4, 1922.
In 1926 the Grand Master of Masons of Washington reported in
his message, in regard to this case, as follows:
"In another case the petitioner was a resident, and had been for
years of another grand jurisdiction. He had been unanimously
reported unfavorable by an investigation committee and twice rejected,
in that grand jurisdiction. He came here for no other reason than to
'get in' and yet he was recommended -by three Master Masons and
three members of an investigation committee, not one of whom had
made a personal investigation, signed a report. The petitioner was
elected and received the degrees. This resulted in a trial and an
expulsion."
In 1927 the Grand Master of Washington rendered the following
decision respecting his petition for restoration:
"At the time th~ person in question presented his petition to the
Lodge he was and had been for a long time prior thereto, and has
ever since ren{ained a resident of another grand jurisdiction. Under
such circumstances it would seem to be clear that a L?dge in this
jurisdiction could not by purporting to grant a restorat10n to make
legal that which had been illegal from its inception. I could see no
difference between. the case presented and that which would result
from for instance, the election of a minor to membership and his
initia'tion induced by a false statement concerning his majority. Upon
the expulsion of such a person certainly the Lodge would have no
authority to restore him UI?til he had attained .his majo~ity: ~n. the
instant case the material did not belong to this grand JUnsd1ct10n;
such material belonged to another grand jurisdiction. We have no
right to invade such other grand jurisdiction by illegally accepting
material which was not ours and then, after expulsion because of the
false representation concerning qualification, grant a restoration with
the effect of legalizing that which was clearly illegal."

Decision 5. I was asked for a decision by the Master of Turlock
Lodge No. 395 as to whether or not his Lodge could act on an application for degrees of an applicant under the following facts:
Under date of August 11, 1924,. an applicant presented an application dated August 1, 1924, for degrees to Seattle Lodge No. 164,

My answer was as follows:
Applicant received the degrees of Masonry in Seattle Lodge No.
164. Seattle Lodge is a subordinate of the Grand Lodge of Washington, therefore its work was regular. Applicant was expelled by
that Lodge for cause in a trial had upon charges based upon hi11

tion among the Lodges, convinces me that the result hoped for by the
amendment to the Constitution, section 94, in 1928, has not been
attained. But on the contrary in an attempt to comply with the law
Masters have repeatedly submitted to a vote of the Lodges the question as to the physical sufficiency of a candidate having disabilities
that they well knew would prevent him from conforming substantially
or at all to what the several degrees respectively required of him. This
has resulted in flagrant violation of the Constitution by Masters and
Lodges.
The word "substantially" in the Constitution, section 94, also
gives rise to confusion. If an applicant "substantially conforms," he
conforms. There is no force to the word "substantially." The applicant either conforms or does not conform. If a Lodge admits an
applicant who cannot conform as required, it violates Landmark First
as authorized by this Grand Lodge to be published in the Blue Book.
. I recommend that the Constitution, section 94, be amended by
striking out the word "substantially" and the last two sentences of
the section.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

falsification as to his residence in his application for degrees to Seattle
Lodge. His petition for restoration was denied.
Had the Grand Lodge of Washington restored him to all the
rights and privileges of a Mason under that jurisdiction, section 124
of our Constitution would govern the case, and Turlock Lodge No.
395, being the Lodge in California nearest his place of residence, could
receive his application for meml;>ership, if accompanied by a dimit
showing that he had severed his membership in his Washington
Lodge, and by the full amount required from an applicant for degrees.
(1894, pp. 557, 762; Digest, 51.)
His petition for restoration having been denied by the Grand
Lodge of Washington, he now stands as an expelled Mason of that
jurisdiction, and as such no Lodge in California can accept his application or recognize him as a Mason.
Applicant already being or having been a Master Mason of the
jurisdiction of Washington, his application for the degrees would not
lie under any circumstances, and the only way in which he could
possibly become a member of the . California Lodge would be by
application for membership rather than for degrees. Of course such
application could not be received until after his restoration by the
Grand Lodge of Washington.

The Grand Lodge adopted .his ruling (1930 Proceedings, p. 280),
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes reporting as follows:
"It appears from the Grand Master's report that the Masonic
Library of Southern California, Inc., is a corporation and is not owned
by or controlled by subordinate Lodges of this Grand ~odge. If the
Lodges owned this library they would have an unquestioned right to
support and maintain it, but they are not authorized to pay Lodge
funds for the use and benefit of a private corporation, no matter how
laudable its business."
This ruling is also supported by the decision of Past Grand
Master Bledsoe. (1915, pp. 292, 381; Digest 431.)
Since the decision made by Past Grand Master Wollenberg, the
" Masonic Library of Southern California, Inc." has changed its
organizatiori so that now it is entirely under the control of its members, ~hich are made up only of Lodges, Chapters and Commanderies,
said bodies being joint owners of said library. It is therefore permissible under our laws for any Lodge to become a member of this
library and as a joint owner to contribute to the said association.

454

Decision 6. A ruling was asked on the right of Lodges to support the Masonic Library Association of Los Angeles.
Past Grand Master Wollenberg reported in regard to this subject
as follows:
"In April I received a communication from the Secretary of
East San Diego Lodge No. 561 calling attention to a circular of the
'Masonic Library of Southern California, Inc.' suggesting by way of
financial assistance a 'contribution could be made by the Lodge.'
"My reply was that such a contribution by a Lodge would be in
contravention of the provisions of section 88 of the Constitution and
could not be permitted.
"This led to a considerable correspondence with the President
of the library, and finally a meeting at the library in Los Angeles.
"There is no question that a Lodge could spend its funds for the
purchase of books and maintenance of a library for the benefit of its
members, and that likewise several Lodges could unite in such an
activity. This library, however, is a private corporation, and although
organized by the Lodges of Southern California, it is no longer under
their control. The Masonic Library of Los Angeles is a necessary
institution, and should be of great value to the brethren of the southern
part of the State, and the programme of the directors of the corporation is one that deserves support of the Lodges. . They recognize that
the value of a Masonic library consists in a great degree upon its
accessibility to those who have the desire or the necessity to consult
its volumes. Their present financial set-up does not make this, the
largest collection of books on Masonic subjects in our State, as accessible as they should be."

455

Decision 7. From one Lodge I received a petition for a dispensation to open Lodge and confer a degree in a Lodge room located in
the same building in which was located the Lodge room in which it
regularly met.
I held that under our Constitution it could properly do as prayed
for in its petition and that a dispensation was not necessary.
From another Lodge I received a petition for a dispensation to
open Lodge and confer a degree in a Lodge room located in a building
other than that in which it regularly met.
I held that under our Constitution this could not be done, and
consequently I had no power to grant the dispensation prayed for.
These decision~ involve the interpretation of several sections of
the Constitution.
The dispensation to form a Lodge and the charter following it,
name only the town or city in which the Lodge is to meet. However,
section 73 requires th e proposed Lodge to name " the location of the
Lodgeroom or hall." Thus its "place of meeting" is fixed and can . be
removed only as provided in section 93. If that "place of meeting" is a
building having more than one Lodge room, the Lodge may meet in
any of the Lodge rooms therein or in ·different ones at different times;
but under section 78 the Lodge room in which it opens becomes the
appointed Lodge room therein, "there can be no adjourned meeting
and each meeting of a Lodge must be closed when the business which
it is proposed to transact at that meeting has been concluded."
, Hence a Lodge can c_o nfer a degree only in a Lodge room in the
building it has fixed as its place of meeting, and when opened in one

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

room it must close in the same room with no adjournment between
opening and closing.

unobjectionable attitude before the fraternity, then the dispensing
power may with propriety be exercised by the Grand Lodge (the
immediate representative of the craft), if in session, or by the Grand
Master (who is the representative of the Grand Lodge), while not in
session. But the dispensing power can only extend to the limitation
of time, or to a change of place, which, it is quite obvious, are simple
barriers to prevent further action uptJn the petition until the objections
which induced its rejection may be removed, or more firmly established. In a case where the objections have been voluntarily removed,
the evil no longer exists which the rule was intended to check, and
consequently the effect dies with the cause; and your committee hold
that where the dispensing power vested in a Grand Lodge, or Grand
Master, is judiciously exercised, it is virtually only an announcement
to the craft that the objections which the rule was intended to meet,
had been removed; and should such announcement be made to the
craft by the Grand Master, through the exercise of such powers on a
candidate where the objections have not been removed, the act should
be regarded as a breach of faith, and the offender should be dealt with
as an unworthy agent, 'and the high powers intrusted to him should
be withdrawn."

456

Decision 8. During the year I have. received a number of requests
made to me by Lodges by a unanimous vote by ballot for the issuance
of dispensations to reballot within a year on rejected applicants. I
have in every instance refused such requests on the ground that the
Constitution does not grant the power to the Grand Master to issue
such a dispensation. Section 43, subd. 4th does grant power to grant
dispensations to receive and act upon the petitions of rejected applicants, which means to permit the Lodge to receive new petitions, but
it does not mean to reballot on the petition on which an applicant has
been rejected, so that the Lodge may avoid breaking the unpleasant
news of his rejection to the applicant.
·
In this connection I have had occasion to reprimand Secretaries
as severely as I was capable of doing, for not notifying applicants in
clear and concise language of their rejection when they were rejected.
It too often happens that Secretaries, in order to save the feelings of a
rejected applicant, notify him in such a way that he at least claims
that he didn't know he was rejected. I have held such action on the
part of Lodge officers to be a gross violation of their duty, and had I
not been convinced of the best of motives on the part of Secretaries,
though inexcusable in fact, I would have ordered charges of unmasonic
conduct to be preferred against them. I am satisfied that the same
Secretaries will not commit this error again and I trust others will
take notice.
I have also refused to grant dispensations to receive and act upon
the petitions of rejected applicants as provided for, except where the
individual who had cast a cube admitted that he did it, and gave assurance that he did it either through mistake or inadvertence which he
desired to rectify, or because of some reason that was no longer
operative with him. I have made such refusals not in the exercise of
discretion but because I felt bound by the law of this Grand Lodge
adopted in 1853 (Proc., p. 262; Digest, 223) as follows:
"The Con~titl!tion of our Grand Lodge says, Article X Section
14: · 'On the reJect10n of any applicant for initiation or memb~rship by
any ~odge under the juris.diction. of this Grand Lodge, the Secretary
of said Lodge shall forthwith notify all the Lodges in said jurisdiction
thereof, and no . Lodge shall be allowed to receive his petition short
of one year from such rejection.' This law is imperatively binding
not only on each · of. the subordinat~ Lodges, but also on the Grand
Lodge? o,r any occa~10nal L<?dge which may be convened by virtue of
the ex1~tmg Masomc authority, as regularly constituted and acknowledged .m the Grand Lodge of California. Nor will it admit of a dispensation, while the cause remains which induced the rejection.
Sh<?uld ~he. me~ber or members opposing such initiation withdraw
their obJect10ns m open Lodge, and thereby place the candidate in an

457

Decision 9. In the case where the Senior Warden had succeeded
to the office and duties of Master, upon the death or disability of the
Master of the Lodge, as provided in Constitution,. section 148, and
interpreted by this Grand Lodge 1894, (Proceedings, p. 765; Digest, .
113), I was asked if the Senior Warden automatically assumes the
title of Master? If so, what happens to the office of Senior Warden?
My answer was that the Senior Warden, succeeding to the powers
and duties of Master, assumed that title. There is, however, no
vacancy in the 9ffice of Senior Warden. He not being able to physically fill the stations of Master and Senior Warden at one and the
same time, the station of Senior W;tr.den must be filled by appointment for each meeting. Not having been elected as Master he will
· not become a Past Master at the expiration of the term of the Master
whose powers and duties he had assumed.
The foregoing decision was made reluctantly, although it is the
law of this jurisdiction. The rule in my judgment rests upon no
proper foundation of reason or logic and is not a proper construction
of section 148 of the Constitution.
In construing sections 138 and 148 of the Constitution, it is my
opinion that the office of Master becomes vacant by reason of the
death or resignation of the Master and that such vacancy can be filled
only by an election. During the time of such vacancy the Senior
Warden (or in his absence the Junior Warden) succeeds to the powers
and duties of the Master and acts as Master pro tempore. If the
Senior Warden automatically and ipso facto succeeded to the office
and title of Master, then there would be no vacancy and therefore
there could be nb dispensation to elect a Master as provided for by

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

section 138. There would be no vacancy in the office of a Warden
who was acting as Master pro tempore, because his very right to act
as such is based upon the fact that he is such a Warden, authorized
by the Constitution to exercise the functions of a 'Master in case of a
vacancy, until the election by the Lodge of a Master.
Because of the confusion that l'tas arisen by re~son of said decision
of 1894, I recommend that said decision be abrogated. If said decision
is abrogated, -then my ruling would fall with said decision and the
law would be clear that a vacancy in the office of Master could be
filled only by an election,' and that a Warden succeeding to the powers
and duties of such office would act as such only pro tempore, and
would have neither the office nor the title of the Master.

who has failed to become a member of some Lodge within a period
of one year from the date of his dimit may be received by a Lodge
if accompanied by those things required by section 122.
Recommendation b : I recommend that section 247 be stricken
out and that in lieu thereof the following be adopted:
Sec. 247. To the Worshipful Master, the Wardens and Brethren
of.................................................. Lodge No ................., F. & A. M.
The undersigned reiipectfully represents that he is a Master
Mason and does not stand suspended or expelled from any Lodge
of Master Masons: 1 (That he is now a member in good standing of
.............................. Lodge No ..........., in the ....................of...............................)
(If h~ is a member of more than one Lodge, here state the names and
locations of the same.) (Here make statement in compliance with
section 122, subdivision 1st, 2d, or 3d.) .
or
~(That he was last a member 0£.................................... Lodge No.............,
m. the ....................of......................................, from which he has honorably
withdrawn.) (Here comply with section 122, subdivision 3d.) That
he was born at ...:.............................................:.........., on the ................day of
........................................ ; that his occupation is.............................................. ;
that his place of business is........_..,................................., telephone ............ ;
that he resides at................................................................., telephone ............ ;

Decision 10. The question as to whether or not the right to
apply for membership in a Lodge is a right, privilege, or benefit of
Masonry, which may be lost by a Master Mason under the . terms of
Constitution, section 165, has caused much· confusion among officers
of Lodges since the amendment of that section _a t the last communication of Grand Lodge.
I have held that the right to apply for membership in a Lodge
is not a Masonic right but a right possessed by any one. Our Constitution does not say who can or cannot apply, but section 122 does
state the requisites of an application before a Lodge can receive it.
Section 98 requires that only· an application for affiliation in the
form prescribed in section 247 can be received by a Lodge. None but
dimitted Master Masons in good standing and applicants for dual
membership can comply with the form prescribed.
Hence applications for affiliation.
1st. From a member of a Lodge in this jurisdiction accompanied
by a receipt for dues and demand for a dimit as provided by section
161, or
2d. From a member of 1 a Lodge in another jurisdicti9n, accompanied by a certificate from his Lodge that a dimit will be issued on
notice of his election to membership in a Lodge of this jurisdiction; or
3d. From a Master Mason accompanied by a proper dimit dated
more than one year previous to the reception of his application by a
Lodge, any of which applications a Lodge is permitted to. receive
under section 122 of the Constitution, cannot be. received because the
form prescribed in section 247 does not provide fo~ them.
I have held that the substantive law as set forth in section 122
governs, and that when the form prescribed does not apply, a form
not prescribed but conforming to section 122 may be received, and ·
that an application for affiliation from a non-affiliated Master Mason

459

...........................,...............................

Date.......:................................Sig~a~~~e:::::
Recommendations:
1. I am a member in the above named Lodge. I have personally
known the above applicant since the ............day of.......................................
From my knowledge of him I have strong reasons to believe that if
elected he will reflect honor on our Ancient Institution:

~'.~~~-~-~-~::::::::.·::::::::::::::::f~i~ph·;~~::::::::::::::::::::

Business address :................
Residence address :........................................~ ...............Telephone....................
2. I am a member in the above named 1.odge. I have personally
known the above applicant since the ............day of.......................................
From my knowledge of him I have strong reasons to believe that if
elected he will reflect honor. on our Ancient Institution :

~'.~.~~~~-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::r~i~ph~~~::::::::::::::::::::

Bus!ness address :................
Residence address :........................................................Telephone....................
Refers to:
·
· B~~!~·~·~·~..~dd~~~-~·;::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.Telephone ....................
Residence address :................:.......................................Telephone....................

B~-~!~-~-~-~--~·dd~~;~·;:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.Telephone....................
Residence address :........................................................Telephone ....................
Recommendation c: Now that Constitution, section 165, requires
no sum to be paid by an applicant for affiliation, I recommend that
the words in Constitution, section 122, subdivision 4, "and the sum,
if any, required by section 165" be stricken out.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

460

461

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Recommendation d : I recommend that Constitution, section
122, be amended by striking out the first three words of subdivision
1st. Subdivision 3d covers the question of a <limit accompanying an ·
application for affiliation. From the questions asked me during the
year, I find that the presence of those words in subdivision 1st is
confusing to the officers of many Lodges. They were in section 122
before said section was amended by the adoption of subdivision 2d and
are now in conflict with it and should be stricken out.
Decision 11. I have been asked if the Secretary of a Lodge can
lawfully require· an applicant for the degrees to answer in his own
handwriting the ques tions which are annexed to and part of the pre~
scribed form and sign the same in quadruplicate, so that the Secretary
may hand a copy to each member of the investigating committee.
I held that the Constitution contemplated only one application
from one applicant, and that when that application' is received by the
Lodge, as provided in section 101, it is the duty of the Secretary to
keep that application in the archives of the Lodge so that it shall not
be altered; that neither the Secretary nor any one else has the .right
to require an applicant to fill the form prescribed except for the purpose of its being received by the Lodge; that the so-called filling out
of the form in quadruplicate is in truth and in ·fact the presentation of .
four separate applications, which is not required and should not be
permitted.
Recommendation e: Though section 98 provides that the application in the form prescribed in section 246, be signed by the applicant,
the form makes no provision for a signature.
Cases have been ·reported to me where neither of the recom• mendors had ever seen the applicant, and neither had hea rd of him
until the signing of the application. I am informed that it is common
custom in some Lodges for members to sign as "courtesy recommendors."
I recommend that section 246 be amended by striking all after
the 14th question and insert. in lieu thereof the following:
Signature......................................................................................
D ate............................................, 19 .........
1. I am a member in the above named Lodge. I have personally ·
known the above applicant since the ........ day of.. ............................ 19.....:...:
From my knowledge of him I have strong reasons to bdieve that if
elected he will· reflect honor on our Ancient Institution.
Signed..............................................................................
Business address: ..........................................................Telephone....................
Residence address :........................................................Telephone.............:......
2. I am a member in the above named Lodge. I have personally
known the above applicant since the ........day of.............................. 19.........
From my knowledge of him I have strong reasons to believe that if
elected he will reflect honor on our Ancient Institution.
Signed ...•.........................................::...............................

Business address :..........................................................Telepho ne ....................
Residence address ;........................................................Telephone....................
Refers to :

B~·~;;;-~-~~--~dd;~~-~·;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::Telephone ....................
Residence address :..........,............................................'.T elephone....................
B~·~;~·~-~~··;dd;~~~·;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::T.elephone ....................
Residence address :........................................................T elephone ....................
Decision 12. I have been asked by Silver Trowel Lodge N o.
415 if it would be lawful for it to insert in its blank for application for
degrees the following question :
"14. Have you ever been convicted or plead guilty to any
public offense?"
I held that section 98 of the Constitution prescribed that the form
and questions set forth in section 246 and that the form or order of
the prescribed questions could not be changed nor could additional
questions be added.
Recommendation f: There are some forms set forth in the
Constitution that are not made mandatory. They are only suggestive
and to help officers of Lodges. They may be and often have to be
changed. It is m y belief that much confusion would be avoided if all
forms except those made mandatory by the Constitution ·he eliminated v
as parts- of the Constitution. Section SO, subdivision 18th, makes it '
the duty of the Grand Secretary to standardize all forms used by subordinate Lodges. He can publish such advisory form s in the Blue
Book following the Constitution as he has done in the last edition in
the case of "Forms for Returns on Summary Expulsion,'' which were
prepared by the Committee on Grievances, b~t not adopted as a part
of the Constitution.
The forms that the Constitution makes mandatory are as follows:
Sections 233, 234, 235, 237, 238, 239, 241, 243, 246 and 247.
I recommend that the Constitution be amended by eliminating
therefrom sections 236, 240, 242, 244, 245, and 248 to 260 both inclusive, and that the section number 237 be changed to 236 ; 238 to 237;
239 to 238; 241 to 239; 243 to 240; 246 to 241 ; and 247 to 242.
That section 73 be amended on page 102 of the 7th edition of th.e
Constitution, line 3, by changing section 237 to section 236, and be
fu rther amended by inserting the words "in the form prescribed in
se.:tion 237" in the 8th line from the bottom of said section 73, between
the words "select" and "declaring."
That section 75 be amended by changing section 239 to section
238 in the 3d line of said section 75.
That section 150--Sth be ame nded by changing section 241 to
section 239.

462

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

That section 159 be amended by changing section 243 to section
240.
That section 98 be amended by changing sections 246 and 247 to
sections 241 and 242. ·
As now written, the heading of section 246 is "Petition for
Degrees." Throughout our substantive law as written in the Constitution the form prescribed in section 246 is referred to as "Application
for Degrees."
I recommend that said heading be changed to conform to all
other parts of the Constitution and amend the heading to read
"Application for Degrees."
Recommendation g: I further recommend that the Grand Secretary be authorized to print those forms eliminated from the Constitution and such other forms as may be of value to the officers of
Lodges following the Constitution itself. These forms may then be
changed or new ones added as occasion may justify without amending
the Constitution.
Decision 13: I have found that some Lodges transact business,
other than the conferring of degrees, with a less number than seven
members present. I have held that such transactions were illegal
because of lack of quorum.
I recommend that Constitution, section 78, be amended by inserting the word "members of the Lodge" between the words "seven" and
"present" in the 4th sentence of said paragraph.
Decision 14. Question: Referring to the Constitution, sections
99, 101, 104; First : Can the Master of a Lodge appoint an investigating committee which shall be known only unto himself?
My answer was yes.
Second: Shall the report of the investigating committee be
known only to the Master of the Lodge?
My answer was yes. The fact of the appointment of the committee and . the character of the report (favorable or unfavorable)
should appear in the minutes and be made known to the Lodge.
Third: What is the Secretary's position with reference to the
above two questions?
I answered as follows: To obey the will and pleasure of the
Master. In order that the Secretary may mail requests for reports
to the committeemen, the Master may make the names of the committeemen known to the Secretary. It is not within the rights of the
Master to delegate that appointment of the committees to the Secretary, or to permit him to read the reports.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

463

Fourth: Referring to the Constitution, sections 150, 151, 152,
Digest, sections 21, 22, etc. The general understanding is that all
books · and records of a Lodge are confidential. If this is correct, by
what authority can a Lodge publish a roster of its membership for
distribution ?
I answered as follows: Our law does not prohibit a Lodge furnishing a roster of its membership to its members for proper use.
Though not prohibited, it is appropriate that a warning be given to
the membership respecting the unauthorized and unwarranted publication or use of rosters of members. The sole purpose of publishing
such a roster should be for Masonic uses and for the benefit of the
1hembers. It should never be used for advertising or as a "sucker
list," or for the commercial exploitation of Masonry or of the members. The publication of such rosters opens the door to serious abuses
and Masters of Lodges are charged with an obligation, if not a requirement of the Constitution, t.o prevent any unauthorized or unwarranted
use of such a list.
·
My answers to the first three of the above questions are based
upon m)9 interpretation of sections 99 and 100 of the Constitution,
together with sections 142 and 150 thereof.
Section 99 prescribes that the investigating committee shall report
to the Master; section 100 that "the names of the members of the
committee shall not be made known except to the Master and. the
Secretary." However, section 142 provides that "the Master shall
have the power" (and it is certainly his duty) "3d to discharge all the
executive functions of his Lodge." No such powers or duties are
assigned to the Secretary in section 150 or elsewhere.
The most important executive function that a Master is called
upon to discharge is the selection of members and that he does
through committees, which, to work efficiently, must be directed by
him. In the last analysis the quality of our members is going to
determine the future of our Institution and the mere aggregation of
individuals is a liability. Because of the financial responsibilities w hich
are bound to be entailed in the growth in numbers, he must consider
the financial responsibility and the social aspect of those his Lodge
takes in. He must see that his committees get the facts necessary to
determine whether the applicants have the necessary moral, mental,
physical and other ?roper qualifications. Applicants not possessing
such qualifications usually are potential financial liabilities who will
in time make it necessary for the Lodge to draw on the fees from
candidates for the payment of necessary expenses of the Lodge. Those
fees .s hould constitute a sacred trust fund to meet special calls for
charity for which the Lodge was instituted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No man should be made a Mason unless he have "an estate,
office, trade, occupation, or some visible way of acquiring an honest
livelihood, as becomes the members of this most ancient and honorable fraternity; who ought not only earn a sufficiency for themselves
and families, but likewise have something to spare for works of
charity and mercy." (I quote from Hardies old Manual, and believe
it to be good doctrine now.)
In the exercise of this most important executive function, the
Master should not only direct his committees but should see to it that
the members that he appoints on his committees are instructed so
that they will be qualified to discharge the important functions with
which they are charged. It is most certainly, in my opinion, the
Master's duty to appoint the investigating committees.
Recommendation h: Last year I had occasion to examine the
transcript of a trial record from one of our Lodges. It appeared from
the testimony that the Master never appointed an investigating committee, that he never received or read a report of such committees and
knew nothing about the investigation of the applicant for degrees who
had become members of his Lodge during his term as Milster, excepting as reported to him by the Secretary on the night of balloting.
This practice still prevails in many Lodges. It was suggested to me
by the Master of a Lodge that the reports naturally came to the
Secretary from the committeemen because the blanks were sent to
the committeemen by the Secretary.
Inasmuch as the Master has no right or authority to make known
the names of this committee to any one except to the Secretary and
to him only in order that he may do an inconsequential secretarial
duty, I recommend tha,t ,section 100 of the Constitution be amended
~Y striking .out tl;ie }a,S~1 J}iree words of the section.

tion is necessary, l refer you to Digest 442, and to those decisions
that have been adopted by Grand Lodge as set forth in Digest, 439.
The 1question that you do not directly ask but that is involved is:
Is a Secretary of a Lodge permitted to give a certificate to the
Eastern Star to the effect that a member was in good standing at
the time of his death or at any other time.
My answer is that he is not.

464

Decision 15. T rec~~'ved the following communications from the
Secrdary of Alhambra Lodge No. 322:
"We had a member by the name of.. .................. , who died in 1923.
He came in in 1920, and paid $6.00 for 1920. He also paid $9.00 for
dues for 1921. He did not pay his dues for 1922, and prior to the
July meeting of 1923 he died in the month of May. Owing dues
for 1922 and first half of the year 1923.
"Now his widow wants to join the Eastern Star, and the Eastern
Star wants a certificate from me to the effect that he was in good
standing at the time of his death. The question comes up that in
case she gets sick, or anything happens to her, would the Lodge be
responsible for the same, that is, for doctor's, nursing, funeral, etc.
"The Master requested me to write and ask you for a decision."
My answer was: Assuming that the brother had not been . suspended prior to his death in May, 1923, an inteHigent rehearsal of
our ritual should answer your q1:1estion as put. If further interpreta-

465

Decision 16. Two cases were presented to me with similar facts:
At the annual election of officers in each of two Lodges a candidate for. the office of Secretary whose dues, on the night\ of election,
were delinquent, received a majority of the votes cast.
In one case the Master declared one candidate ineligible and the
other not elected, and ordered a second ballot. Before the second
ballot ~as taken the amount of arrearages of the ineligible candidate
was paid by another in his behalf, and on the second ballot he again
received a majority of the votes cast. I held the candidate to be duly
elected.
·
. . In the other case, an eligible candidate failing to receive a majority of the votes cast, I held that there was no election.
Authorities: Constitution, Sections 135, 140. By-Laws, Section 2,
Article IX.
In the latter case only 28 out of 61 voting had their dues paid
quarterly in advance. I disregarded that fact under authority of 1895
'
pp. 17, 262; Digest, 124.
The Lodge m~st receive the amount of arrearages, if tendered,
whether by the dehnque11t or another in his behalf. 1877, p. 23; 1878,
p. 603; New Digest, 469.
As to ineligible candidate being 'permitted to' run as candidate
when made eligible, see 1891, pp. 16, 213; Digest, 139. 1899, pp. 21,
274; Digest, 140.
Decision 17. Inasmuch as the unfortunate status of most of
those whose dues were not paid up to December 31, in one of the
above cases, was due to the fact that the Secretary collected dues
quarterly in ;idvance, beginning December 1, I directed the Lodge
to collect dues quarterly in· advance commencing with the first day
of the "Masonic year," which is January 1st. (1912 p. 155· Digellt
314.)
'
'
'
Recommendation i: I recommend that the Uniform Code of ByLaws of Lodges be ·amended by ;:idding at the end of section 1 article
IX, the words "on the first day of January, April, July and O~tober.''
Decision 18. A member in good standing in this jurisdiction
desiring to affiliate with another Lodge, filed his application for mem~

466

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

bership at the November stated meeting, accompanied by a receipt
for dues to the end of December, together with a written request to
his Lodge for a <limit. He was elected to membership in December
by the Lodge in which application was made and the Se~retary thereof
forwarded the request for a <limit to the Lodge from which the brother
desired to withdraw. The Master requested advice as to what dues
applicant must pay before his request for a <limit could be complied
with.
I held that in order to constitute payment of dues by a member,
he must pay quarterly in advance and that a Lodge could not refund
dues paid in advance except such as were paid in excess of those for
the current quarter. (See 1912, p. 149; Digest, 297), and so the applicant must therefore pay dues for the quarter ending March 31st
before a <limit could be issued.
I further held that the Lodge receiving the application should
not have received it when not accompanied by a receipt for dues. "pa~d
for at least three months in advance" (Const. Sec. 161), which m
·
this case would have been to the end of March.
Decision 19. At the stated meeting in November, 1928, one of our
Lodges received an application for affiliation from ~ memb.er of .a
Lodge i"n another jurisdiction, accompanie~ by a ~ertific~te from his
Lodge that a dimit would be issued on notice of his election t~ ?1e.mbership in the Lodge in this jurisdiction, together with the aff1hation
fee required by the Lodge applied to, but not by th~ su.m of t"".entyfive dollars as required by section 122 of the Constitution. This applicant agreed to pay later.
The applicant was elected to membership in the . Cali~ornia Lodge
at the stated meeting in January, 1929, and the Califorma Lod~e received the <limit from his Lodge on January 18, 1929, after no~1ce ~o
that Lodge of applicant's election to membership i? the Cahforma
Lodge. Since that time applicant has refused to sign the by-laws
and to pay anything to the Lodge.
Inquiry was made as to his status, and the rights and obligations
of the Lodge.
My ruling was as follows: Applicant stands as a me.mber in good
standing of the California Lodge. His <limit should have been presented to the Lodge on the stated meeting in February, 1929, and
the Secretary should have entered the applicant's name as a member
of the Lodge. Dues accrued as to the applicant from the first day
of March, 1929, which would be for one month t? the e,?d o.f t~e
quarter commencing on the first da)' of the "Ma!ontc year, wh1ch .1s
January lst,-and quarterly in advance thereafter.
The Secretary should have included this applicant in his report
to the Grand Secretary i.n the year 1929 and each succeeding year as

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

467

provided in Constitution (Section 150, subdivision 7th), and the Lodge
should have paid its contributions as provided in Constitution section 41, on this member, who should have been borne upo~ the
rolls since the stated meeting in March, 1929. The contribution for
the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes which the Secretary
should have collected from the petitioner on or before the stated
meeting in November, 1928, should have been transmitted to the
Grand Secretary on the first day of May, 1929.
If the Secretary neglected to collect moneys due on presentation
of an applicant, he is personally liable to the Lodge.

The brother having refused to sign the by-laws is guilty of a
violation of article 4, section 3 of the by-laws and after due trial
for such offense, the penalty fixed by the trial commission shall be
incurred.
I ordered the Lodge to pay to Grand Lodge the contribution
herein above set forth, which order has been complied with.
Decision 20. I received the following inquiry from the Master
of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21:
A brother who was formerly a member of Hawaiian Lodge No.
21 demitted during the year 1928 and affiliated with a Lodge under
the jurisdiction of the Phiiippine Islands. He has been a resident of
the Philippine Islands for a number of years and his stay there is for
an indefinite period. He is now desirous of affiliating with his mother
Lodge.
The Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands recognizing dual
membership, would the fact that he does not reside in Hawaii preclude Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 from accepting his application for
affiliation either as a dual member or as a demitted member?
My answer was that the fact that the brother was not a resident
of the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge ·of California would not preclude Hawaiian Lodge from receiving his application for affiliation
in either form.
This Grand Lodge held (1894, p. 762; Digest, Sec. 51): "The
old law, as we find it in the Ancient Charges, did not make previous
residence at the particular place, or eve"n in the country, a condition
without which no application could be received and employed as an
apprentice.

:·w~ have ~~d.e ~ new r~gulation, ~hat no Lodge shall receive an
application for m1tiation until the applicant has resided·in this State
twelve months, and six months within the territory over which such .
Lodge exercises jurisdiction." (Constitution, Sec. 95.)
··
Constitution, section 122, affiliation 1 contained a similar regulation until the words "The applicant must be a resident of the juris-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

diction" were stricken out by amendment in 1927. Now our law does
not subject applicants for affiliation to the qualifications of residence,
either as to time or place, exacted of applicants for the degrees.
Recommendation j: In the adoption of Constitution, section 41,
subdi~ision 1, it does not seem reasonable that Grand Lodge contemplated that one who had once paid the $25.00 therein required
must again comply with that p~ovision should he later affiliate with
a Lodge outside the jurisdiction of California and desire to again
affiliate in California. I have been asked by several Masters if such
was necessary and I had to refer them to Digest, 312. •
I recommend that Constitution, section 41, subdivision 1, be
·amended by adding the words "unless said member has theretofore
paid such contribution upon a former application either for the degrees or affiliation to a Lodge in this jurisdiction."
Recommendation k: I have answered many requests for interpretation of Constitution, sections 88 and 89, being bound by those
sections and former decisions of this Grand Lodge thereon. Those •
requests came because of a feeling of the unreasonableness of the
present law and an attempt to have rulings that would enable Lodges
to proceed in a manner different from that which the law now provides for. I agree with those who feel that the law is not satisfactory as it now stands, and with a view of meeting criticisms made
. I recommend the following amendments :
1. That section 88 of the Constitution be amended by striking
out the last clause to-wit:
"Provided that a subordinate Lodge may in its discretion appropriate .from its funds any amount for the purchase of a Past Master's
jewel for its retiring Master, and for floral pieces for a deceased
brother."
2. Section 89 be amended by striking all after the word "expend"
and insert in lieu ther eof:
"In each Masonic year 20 per cent of its annual receipts of dues
from its members as computed from the last previous annual report
to Grand Lodge and income from its life membership fund, for refreshments and the promotion of fraternal feelings a mong the
brethren."
In my opinion it would promote "fra ternal feelings among the
brethren" to permit a Lodge, if it voted to do so, to purchase floral
pieces for a brother, or even more so for one near and dear to him,
when he or they were in need of cheer, instead of limiting it to the
purchase of .a floral piece for him who was no longer able to enjoy
it; also to purchase such testimonials as the Lodge may direct as are
now prohibited by decisions of this Grand L odge as r eported in
Digest 176, 177, 182 and 198.

469

Decision 21. I have found that many Lodges have been and arc
now making donations from Lodge funds for the purposes of assisting to pay the expenses of Inspectors at the annual communications
of Grand Lodge, for paying the expenses of Masters while in attendance, and for paying for the transportation of Wardens. and Secretaries tci and from Grand Lodge and their expenses while there.
These donations are of varying amounts, some being. intended to be
amply sufficient to permit the officers _to do considerable e·ntertaining
while at Grand Lodge.
I have held that the making of any of the abo:ve-mentioned
donations is a violation of our law.
Recommendation I : I believe that Grand Lodge, in· its pay of
members should include all expenses and not only those incurred
for transportation. Furthermore, the law as now written allows more
for transportation than the cost thereof. We from the extreme southern part of the State are allowed sufficient over and above the actual
cost for transportation, to pay our necessary expenses at Grand
Lodge. This is due to the fact that the difference between the cost
of an "unlimited" fare and a fare limited to the duration of an annual
communication of Grand Lodge is considerable.
I further believe that Grand Lodge, instead of the Lodge visited, should pay the expenses of Inspectors on official visits required
of them .
I recommend that the following sections of the Constitution be
amended as follows:
That Section 6 be amended by striking out in line 7 thereof, the
words "an unlimited" and inserting the word "a."
T _h at said section 6 be further amended by adding at the end of
the first paragraph thereof, the words "and a per diem of six ($6.00)
dollars during the communication."
That section 56 be amended by striking out in the third from the
last line thereof, the words " Each Lodge" and inserting in lieu thereof
the words "Grand Lodge" and by adding at the end of said section
the words "but in all cases the claims for such expenses shall be ascertained by the committee on Finance and be by it reported on, before
allowance by the Grand Lodge."
That section 57 be amended by inserting between the words
"transportation" and "from" in line 6 of said section, the words "and
per diem."
That section 57 be further amended by adding a fter the word
"Lodges" in line 8, the words, "together with per diem for two extra
days attenda nce r equired by this section."

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

That said section be further amended by striking out the last 14
words and inserting in lieu thereof the words "as Inspector shall
receive pay in any other capacity."
That section 71 be amended by inserting between the words
"Grand Lodge" and "in" in line 8 thereo·f, the words "and per diem."
Recommendation m: I further recommend the passage by Grand
Lodge of the following resolution:
"Resolved that the Grand· Secretary be directed to add to the
blank forms for annual returns as provided in Constitution, section
80, an additional sheet, or sheets for the inclusion of the summary
of the income and disbursement of each Lodge."
Recommendation n: I also recommend the passage of the further
resolution:
Resolved: That a committee, to be known as the "Advisory Finance Committee" be named by succeeding Grand Masters, members
of which shall be entitled to the actual necessary expenses incurred
in the performance of their duties as is provided in the cases provided
for in Constitution, section 37e.
That the duties of said committee shall be to obtain information
as to the financial problems of Lodges and of Masonic Temples, to
study the same and to advise a proper program to those Lodges and
temples, that in the opinion of the committee, need advice."
Decision 22. Redondo Lodge No. 328 submitted the following:
"A member of this Lodge introduced a resolution to the effect
tha~ the Treasurer be ordered to invest our life membership func;l in
capital stock of Redondo Beach Masonic Building Association and
that the Lodge would guarantee 4 per cent interest on said stock.
"Will you kindly advise if we would be allowed to so invest this
fund?"
My answer was that the above resolution is illegal and a Lodge
cannot be permitted to invest its life memhership fund pursuant to
such resolution.
Recommendation o: It is my belief that amounts paid for life
memberships should be as closely guarded as the Masonic Home
Endowment Fund ( 1919 p. 567, Digest, 148).
Furthermore as such investments ordinarily yield less than 6 per
cent the withdrawal upon the death of a life member of such sum as
he had paid into the fund, prevents the life membership fund from
paying to the Lodge the annual amount that its life members should
contribute as dues and reduces the income that should cover the
running expenses of a Lodge.
I therefore recommend that section 129 of the Constitution be
amended by striking out the words "in such reputable banks of deposit, or in such bonds as the United States, State of California,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

471

or some C0tmty, City and County, City or Town thereof, or in such
other first-class stocks, bonds or securities" and insert in lieu thereof
"in Federal, State, County or Municipal bonds legal for savings .
banks."
Further that the sentence beginning "Provided nevertheless" be
stricken from said section 129.
Recommendation p: Constitution, section 87, provides "It (a
Lodge) may, through trustees provided for in a standing resolution,
who shall always be under its control, hold, mortgage, sell and otherwis~ dispose of its property and funds, which may be invested and
reinvested as the Lodge shall direct."
In 1914 {pp. 21, 129-Digest, 429) Grand Lodge adopted Grand
Master Murphey's decision that the statute of the State of California
(Statutes 1911, p. 1093) "does away with the necessity for conveying
to trustees and the corresponding difficulty of keeping track of their
successors."
The statute referred to qualifies such power as is given to the
branch of the fraternal association as follows: "Subject to the laws
and regulations of said society or association."
The question is often raised by counsel for title companies as
to whether or not Constitution, section 87, gives a Masonic Lodge
power to borrow money and to secure such borrowing by pledge of
real property belonging to the Lodge, or by conveyance of such real
property as security for a note of the Lo~ge, s~ch conveyance to be
in trust in the usual familiar form of a · trust deed.
In order to clarify this question, I recommend that Constitution,
section .87, be amended by inserting after the words " It may," and
befo~e the words "through trustees," the words "either in its own
name or."
Decision 23. Applicant for degrees to Point Firmin Lodge No. 558
of San Pedro resided in the jurisdiction of Point Firmin Lodge for
three years prior to February 15, 1931. Since that date he has resided in Lynwood, wherein is located Lynwood Lodge No. 600.
On May 21, 1931, the following questions were asked:
Has Point Firmin Lodge jurisdiction?
Can it proceed by getting a waiver of jurisdiction?
Must applicant re-establish residence for Masonic purposes on
account of moving his residence to Lynwood?
My answers were: Point Firmin Lodge has lost normai jurisdiction over applicant as defined in Constitution, sections 82 and 95.
Lynwood Lodge will gain jurisdiction when he has resided six months
within the jurisdiction of the L odge. Point Firmin Lodge, to which

472

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

such petition is addressed, may then receive his application under the
provisions of Constitution, section 82a, provided his residence is within
ten miles of the Lodge room -of Point Firmin Lodge. If a greater
distance, Point Firmin Lodge can only receive and act upon the application when and if authorized by Lynwood Lodge as provided in
Constitution, section 96.

of the jurisdiction of San Fernando Lodge may apply without waiver
to a Lodge located outside of that jurisdiction, provided the distance
between his place of residence and the Lodge room of the Lodge to
which he applies does not exceed ten miles.''

Decision 24. During my absence from the State, R.".W.".Brother
Gaylord, Deputy Grand Master, acting under authority of Constitution, section 45, in response to questions from San Fernando Lodge
No. 343, gave an accurate and concise statement of the law pertaining
to the questions asked. I quote his decision so that Grand Lodge may
review it:
"You ask the general .question whether a person residing within
a normal jurisdiction may petition a Lodge in a neighboring jurisdiction, provided the distance between the 'two jurisdictions' is less
than ten miles, without a waiver. The answer to this question in the
form in which it is presented is 'No.' Section 82a of the Constitution provides that a person may petition any Lodge whose Lodge
room is within ten miles of his residence, notwithstanding ·the normal rules of jurisdiction. The distance between jurisdictions is immaterial. The determining factor is the Lodge room and the place
of residence. A person residing within a normal jurisdiction· may
petition a Lodge in a neighboring jurisdiction without a waiver, provided the distance between his place of residence and the location of
the Lodge room does not exceed ten miles.
"Your next question concerns contiguous jurisdictions, and the
question is whether a person living within ten miles 1of the 'boundary
line' between the two jurisdictions may, without a waiver, apply to
a Lodge in the jurisdiction across the line from his residence. The
above comments equally apoly to this question. The fact that the
person lives within ten miles of the boundary line does not of itself
permit him to apply to a Lodge across the line. On the other }land,
if there are two contiguous jurisdictions, a person living in one jurisdiction may, without a waiver, apply to a Lodge in the other jurisdiction, provided the distance between his place of residence and the
location of the Lodge room does not exceed ten miles.
.."Your final question is whether the answers apply to San Fernandb Lodge. By the resolution appearing in Decision 286, San
Fernartdo Lodge is' given exclusive jurisdiction in San Fernando and
also in the territory outside of San Fernando over which it had
jurisdiction immediately prior to annexation by the city of Los Angeles. This resolution was adopted in 1919 under section 92a of the
Constitution, which was adopted in 1912. Section 82a was adopted
at a still later date (1926). It permits application without waiver in
a jurisdiction outside the residence of the petitioner, provided the
distance between residence and Lodge room does not exceed ten miles,
'anything in this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding.' Notwithstanding the definite language of section 92a regarding allotment
of exclusive jurisdiction to Lodges, I am of the opinion that section
82a controls section 92a, because of the chronology of adoption, and
the language of section 82a. It follows that it is my conclusion that
the above answers apply to San Fernando Lodge, and that a resident

473

Decision 25. I have been asked the following question:
What proceedings must be had to qualify an Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft to advancement in the degrees of Masonry after
suspension for cause?
Answer; 1. If the suspension was by a trial commission in his
own Lodge, his Lodge may, after the record of suspension has been
reviewed and approved by· Grand Lodge (1925 p. 635-Digest, 461)
restore him under the provisions of Section 210 of the Constitution.
He would again "be an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft of his
own Lodge. He may then be advanced by his Lodge or by another
Lodge on a waiver of jurisdiction by his own Lodge the same as if no
suspension had occurred.
2. If the suspension was by a trial commission in another Lodge
he must apply for restoration to the Lodge which suspended him
(1905 pp. 17, 112-Digest, 463). Restoration by the Lodge that suspended him would not operate in and of itself to restore him as an
Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft in his own Lodge. That statt¥>
ceased upon his suspension by the trial Lodge affirmed by the Grand
Lodge, and that connection, having been thus completely extinguished, could only be revived by a new election on a new petition
for the remaining degree or degrees ( 1880, p. 563-Digest, 467) in his
own Lodge, or in another Lodge, on a waiver of jurisdiction by his
own Lodge and an election in the other Lodge.
3. If the suspension was by Grand Lodge on an appeal from
an acquittal or sentence or reprimand by a Lodge, the Lodge cannot restore -him under the provisions of Section 210 of the Constitution for it was Grand Lodge that suspended him (1868, p. 381-Digest,
366; 1878, p. 576-Digest, 367). He can only be restored by Grand
Lodge under provisions of secs. 211 and 212 of the Constitution. It is
not in the power of Grand Lodge to restore him as an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft of his own Lodge. Hence he can only
regain his status as an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft of his
own Lodge and be entitled to advancement after petition for the remaining degree or degrees in his own Lodge, or in another Lodge
on a waiver of jurisdiction by his own Lodge and an election in the
either Lodge (1880, p. 563-Digest, 467).
Decision 26. A case was presented by a Master and Soci:etary of ·
a Lodge where a member had suffered a final judgment of convic-

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion of a crime classified as a felony under the law and · had been
given a suspended sentence. They stated that the offense of which
he had been convicted constituted unmasonic conduct. They wanted
to know if the Junior Warden must prefer charges.
I report this case because. there seems to be a general. misconception that our law on automatic expulsion relieves !he _Jun~or Warden of his duty set forth in section 189 of the Constitution m a case
like the one here .presented. I told· my inquirers that it was not only
the bounden duty of the Junior Warden to bring charges but that
it was the only way that his Lodge could avoid the charge of condoning a felony, and at the ~ame time put its erring member in a position that he might later be re-instated to the respect of all good
Masons. The duty of the Junior Warden in the case cited is as s~t
forth in section 189. The procedure is precisely as set forth m
section 192 in the case of a member imprisoned in pursuance of a final
judgment of conviction who has elected to have a trial in the Lodge.
Decision 27. I was asked if two members of a Lodge could be
tried by one commission, and if not, if two commissions could be
elected at one special meeting called for the purpose.
As my answer I quoted with approval a decision rendered by
~rand Master Tinnin (1886, p. 485) which decision was not reported
on by the Jurisprudence Committtee, hence not approved by this
drand Lodge. I, therefore, report it now for action by this Grand
Lodge.
.
"The following questions have been presented to me for decision and have been answered as follows: .
"Question. Can four members be trie? . ~Y the same commissioners and must we elect a separate comm1ss1on for each one?
"Answer. Yes. But there must be four elections and ~o~r separate trials. Each defendant is entitled to a separate comm1ss1on and
a separate trial and judgment.
. "Question. If it is necessary to elect a separ'.lte com.mission
for each one, may they all be chosen at the same special meeting, due
notice thereof having been given?
"Answer. Yes.
"Question. Can a member be elected as a commissioner who
is not present at the special meeting held for that purpose?
·
"Answer. Yes." ·
D"ecision 28. A case was stated. where in open Lodge a member
moved that the Junior Warden be directed to prefer charges of
unmasonic conduct against a named brother. Another brother sought
to r!ebate the question and was ruled out of order by the Master on
the ground that such debate would be unfair to the accused, he not
being present. The motion was put and carried.

475

I held that the Master was right in his ruling debate out of order
but wrong in entertaining the motion. In no instance can a Lodge
prefer, dismiss or otherwise control charges.
Prior to 1928, Decisions and Regulations 410 had contained the
·syllabus, "The Lodge or Master may be accuser." An examination
of the citations under that syllabus reveals the fact that in no case
had the Lodge directed charges as in the above case attempted, but
that in one instance where the Mast er had directed charges it was
held the same as the Lodge directing them. However, in 1928 Grand
Lodge repealed 410 of Digest and Regulations. (Digest, 520.)
Under Constitution, section 189, it is the official duty of the
Junior Warden to prefer· charges within a certain time after the
facts are brought to his knowledge, and the Master may direct him
to do so. This makes sufficient provision, and a motion of this character should not be entertained.
Recommendation q: I recommend that Constitution, section 251,
be amended by striking out the words "the direction of the Lodge
or Master" in the second line ori page 233 and inserting in lieu thereof
the words " Constitution, section 189."
Also by striking out the words ."by direction of that Lodge (or
of the Master thereof)", as appear in the form following.
Then add after the last paragraph of the form direction as follows :
Should the charge be preferred by the Junior W arden under
the direction of the Master, the words "by direction of the Master
thereof" should be inserted in the foregoing paragraph after the
words " does hereby."
Our substantive law has been amended since this form was
adopted. It should .be amended to conform. with our present law.
Decision 29. I have had many occasions throughout the year to
interpret our law relative to the collection of dues.
I have held: That to comply with the duty of the Secretary as
prescribed in secticm 150, subdivision 4th, of the Constitution, he
should send statements at least quarterly to members whose dues
have not been paid quarterly in advance of amounts due by each.
That the Committee on Delinquent Members required by Regula- .
tion 121 should ascertain the cause of delinquency of each member
before he has become delinquent for a period of .twelve months and
the Lodge should remit the due.s of those who are found to be unable
to pay and deserving.
That it is mandatory that the Secretary notify those members as
prescriqed in section 117 when they become delinquent for a period of
twelve months and whose dues have not been remitted by the L odge.

416·

PROCllllllDiNGS 01<' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

That at the next stated meeting the Master must declare suspended such members as have not paid their dues by that time, unless
for special reasons shown . the Lodge shall remit their dues or grant
further time for their payment as prescribed in section 118.
That when further time is granted it must be for a definite period
· expiring on the date of a futu.re stated meeting, at which time the
Master or the Lodge must take the action above set forth; otherwise, if time is extended indefinitely the Master and the Lodge lose
jurisdiction to take the action specified until the Secretary again
notifies the delinquent member in the manner prescribed in section 117.
That a Lodge cannot demand or accept a promissory note from
a member in consideration of remission of dues, but must direct the
Secretary to issue a receipt for dues to date, charging the same to
the Lodge; nor can a Lodge loan money to a member or accept a
promissory note for money advanced to a needy brother.
Recommendation r: I recommend the passage by Grand Lodge
of the followi~g resolution:
·
"Resolved that the Grand Secretary be directed to add to the
blank forms for annual returns an additional sheet, or sheets for the
inclusion of the number of members who are six months or more in
arrears in the payment of dues, showing the period of delinquency
of each member."
Visitations
At the time I assumed the office of Grand Master I appreciated
that. my duties were executive, and I believed that in order for an
executive to administer the affairs of the Institution over which he is
called to preside with any degree of effi.ciency, it is necessary that he
inform himself on its conditions and its problems. With this in
view, I set out to visit each Inspectorial district in the jurisdiction.
I can now report that I have visited .e ach district at least once and
some districts more than once. To do that I have traveled in the
State of California in my own automobile, in excess of twenty-four
thousand miles. I found this method of travel to be a recreation, and
it enabled me to arrive at the place of my meeting at the hour the
brethren had fixed for it. It also permitted me to pass through the
county seat of every county in California and to appreciate the extent
and beauties of our State in a manner that I might not otherwise
have been- privileged to <lo.
Before making my visitations I advised each Inspector that if
any of the officers of the Lodges in his district desired to meet with
me informally, I would be very glad to meet with them. In response
to that suggestion I have been given the opportunity and privilege
of hearing their problems and methods of handling them from the

officers of practically every Lodge in this jurisdiction. From them I
have learned much of Masonry. It is they who are in touch with· the
individual members of our Lodges. Masonry is concerned with the
assistance and development of the individual. It is the individual
that does or does not practice outside of the Lodge those things that
he has been taught in it. It is for the Masters who have been intrusted
with leadership, to see that no Master Mason shall be led to believe
that our obligations are only a part of the ritual. I find that many
Masters are alive to their opportunities and personally or through
properly organized committees, make those personal contacts with
the members of the Lodge that are necessary to fulfill properly the
obligations of Masonry.
The recommendations to Grand Lodge that I have heretofore
made, in most instances are the results of one or more of these meetings with officers wherein we considered the questions involved as
if we had been acting as a committee of the whoie.
I trust that these meetings have likewise been of value to the
officers for I have endeavored to carry to each district those constructive suggestions that I had received in previous meetings.
This year with financial conditions as they are, the question of
the utilization of Masonic Charity Funds has been of frequent discussion,
The Best Utilization of Masonic Charity Funds
Relief is a basic principle in Masonry. It is the duty of a Mason
to contribute from his means to aid a worthy distressed brother and
his family. As a practical matter, however, Masonic relief of a material nature can never be sufficient in amount to take care of all the
needs of all the Masons whose misfortunes are such that they are
suffering.
This being the case, it is the part of wisdom to administer available relief funds in such a way as to make them go as far as possible.
The question may well be raised as to whether Masonry should undertake the entire burden of material relief for its distressed members
in those cases where other agencies can be utilized to carry part of
it. In many cases the best service the Masonic relief can render is to
bring to the aid of the distressed brother those non-Masonic sources
of help which are applicable to his condition, but which through lack
of information or inability to act he may not have been able to enlist
for himself. These include first of all, his own relatives, who may be
able to help but who for one reason or another have failed to ·do so.
For certain cases of need, State aid is available, both for children and
for the aged. It is my belief that the desire to make the proud boast
that "Masonry takes care of its own" should not deter Masonic relief

477

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

478

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

agencies from seeking and getting such aid. Public health service
agencies can often be called upon for needed medical or surgical
treatment.
Masons contribute, through taxes, to all the gove.rnment agencies
that extend relief and need have no hesitancy in calling on these·
agencies for aid. They also contribute a large part of the public donations given to our charities, and are entitled to the benefits from them.
Helping needy brothers to secure employment has long been
recognized as a constructive measure of relief, much better than giving
money. The extension of the same principle indicates the wisdom of
expending effort and time on repairing and reconstituting broken
family structures when this is possible. In many cases the condition
which produces misery and suffering r~sults from a repairable breakdown in family life. It is coming to be recognized that in the past
too much of our relief work, by taking individuals away from their
relatives and putting them into institutions, has separated families
and broken them up, whereas in many cases the same or less expenditure would have kept them together and put them back into successful
functioning. The fact that there. has seemed to exist the need for the
institutional method of relief has caused us to create institutions· once
we have them there is the tendency to use them in cases that' could
better be handled in other ways. A good doctor does not perform an
operation when a lesser measure will suffice.
Oftentimes the Masonic family in distress does not know w"hat
it needs. It may think it needs money or needs to get some of its
members into one of our Homes, when in fact fifty per cent or possibly seventy-five per cent of what it needs is intelligent planning to
show it how to put its own resources into effective operation, and
thereby work out its own problems.
Any given sum of money, whether $1000 or $100,000, available
for Masonic relief, can be made to go farther and produce more and
better results, if in conjunction with its use all other available agencies
and means, public or private, are called on alld induced to help.
A Master should not wait until calls come to him, for many are
too proud to ask. The 'Master, by personal investigation through a
committee, should acquaint himself with conditio~s of his members
that might entitle them to assistance.
. In many Lodges the Committee on Delinquent Members, prescribed by Regulation 121, procures this information. That committee,
if it does its work efficiently, should have members that continue over
from year to year· in order that the committee may have a continuity
that will enable it to know whether or not a member, when he becomes
t.welve months delinquent in his dues, is entitled to remission of dues,

479

or whether the Master should do that which the Constitution requires
him to do if the man is not entitled to such remission. The committee
should be in a position at the time he is delinquent in his dues for a
period of twelve months, to advise whether or not a member is ~n­
titled to relief to the extent of his Lodge paying his dues for the period
of· delinquency. If he is entitled to that relief it should be given him
and a receipt issued to him to date, charging the same to the Lodge.
This should be done whether he requests it or not; otherwise his dues
will accumulate and be still more impossible for him to pay.
Service Committee
The Committee on Delinquent Members could well be called a
"Service Committee," for the information it should have would be
such that could be used to determine whether the Lodge should
expend its funds for relief 9f a member, either in paying his dues or
in otherwise assisting him.
We may well profit by the experience of Massachusetts in this
work. Grand Master Dean told us at the Grand Masters' conference
that
"The Service Committee was organized to take care .of things
that did not involve any expenditure of money, but simply a helping
.hand, or advice, or something of that kind.
"It did not progress as we wanted it to, and we tried to find out
what was the trouble, and · finally we decided it was because. ~he
Service Committee did not have enough to do. They sat there wa1tmg
for a service case to come along; and when it did not come along .t hey
made up their minds that the service was not needed. So we added
the idea of hitching it up with the welfare work of the Lodge.
"Among the ·suggestions that were made for the Service Committee was, first of all, to go to the widow of every ~faster M~son after
the funeral was over and inform her of the Service Committee. We
had on the Service Committee a lawyer and a banker, and the name of
the banker was given to her particularly. J:Iere was. a member of the
Lodge who felt it was his privilege to advise th~ widow of ~ brother
Master Mason. The lawyer would do the same with legal advice.
"We have found many cases where widows have been saved the
amount of their inheritance.
"I think that the great trouble is that we bury a Master Mason, go
through our program at the grave, and then. forge! all about t~e
widows and orphans unless they need financial assistance; and m
many cases the advice and help of the brothers are more valuable than
financial assistance .
. . · · "One more duty which we suggested. to the Servic~ Committee
was the question of a personal interview with every man m the Lodge
before he was suspended for non-payment of dues; and that developed
some most interesting cases. We found cases of people who had ~e­
ceived notice from their Secretary, perhaps two or three, and still,
because of their condition, were not able to pay and th~y were too
proud to make the statement that they were not financially able to
· fulfill their obligation.

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE U1'' CALIFORNIA

"A personal interview by a member of the Service Committee
not ostensibly to ask about their dues, but simply as a ~riendly gesture:
developed many cases where men needed to have their dues remitted
a great deal more than they needed to be suspended. Cases were found
that were really needy, and they were too proud to ask for as·sistanc:e.
. "That is a matter which develops in this situation today, in this
time of unemployment. and stress, that a good many people who really
need h.elp are not mak1_n~ any application. They are simply tightening
up their belts and depriving themselves of those things that they ought
to have rather than to appeal· to any one for help. Those are cases
that we have discovered through the Service Committee."
A member who is not able to pay his dues may very likely be in
such condition that he will require more than the remission of his dues,
and this the Lodge should know through investigation.
In my visits to the Lodges this year I have stressed this important
work to be done by Masters. Too many Masters in the past have
known nothing but ritual and left everything to the Secretaries. Many
Lodges elect men as Secretaries, not for their qualifications, but because they need the job. It would pay such Lodges to give such men
charity and employ competent men. Big industrial concerns find it
profitable to pension old employes rather than keep them in responsible positions.

given further and indefinite time in which to pay. This is poor business
policy. If and when a member fails or refuses to pay his just dues
for a period of twelve months, the Committee on Delinquent Members should report defir.itely and promptly to the Lodge the financial
situation of all such delinquents, and immediate action for suspension
or remission of dues should follow. Generally it is good business to
order the Secretary to issue receipt for dues to date, charging the
same to the Lodge. But if the Lodge ascertains, either by the efforts
of the Committee or otherwise, that certain delinquent members are
in fact able but not willing to pay, suspension should not be delayed.
In no instance should further time be granted except for a definite
period. If entitled to further time he should have his dues remitted,
unless he can show definite ability to pay at the end of the period.
"Sections 117 and 118 of the Constitution are mandatory and must
be obeyed. The present financial stringency of course s hould be considered. If Lodges can save a delinquent member by remitting his
dues, sound business judgment would indicate that such action would
best subserve the interests of the Lodge. Wholesale suspensions are
not wise. A small percentage of suspended members ever return to
active membership. Lodges frequently are to blame for loss of interest.
But after due effort to enlist interest has failed, leniency is idle.
"It is my order that each Lodge report to the Grand Secretary
immediately after the July stated meeting any members delinquent
for a period of twelve months whose dues have not been remitted, or
who are not suspended. If further time is granted to any member
r eport the reason and to what date further time is granted.
"If the Secretary of any Lodge has refused or neglected to have
sent the notices as required by Constitution, Section 117, so report
after the July stated meeting and see that compliance is had so that
action may be taken at the August stated meeting. Any Lodge that
has failed to report full compliance with Constitution, Sections 117
and 118, either immediately after the July or August stated meetings
will be subject to discipline. See to it that a report is in immediately
after the July stated meeting and if necessary a fur ther report immediately after the August stated meeting.
" Dated at San Francisco this 15th day of June, 1931."

I found Masters that were doing their utmost to administer the
affairs of their Lodges in a businesslike way in accordance with our
Constitution and Regulations, but were so handicapped by the eondition of affairs when they assumed office that their task was well
nigh impossible. I found one Inspector five years in arrears in his
dues, and his was only one of many cases in his Lodge that were
equally delinquent. I found one Lodge with members twelve years
d~linquent, and two Lodges with members nine years delinquent,
without any action.
The Masters of these Lodges and others equally handicapped,
have done much to put their Lodges in order through their Secretaries and Committees in spite of their handicap.
Because of these conditions I sent the following communication
to each Master, each Secretary and each Inspector in the jurisdiction
previous to the stated meetings in July :

"To Inspectors, Masters, and Secretaries:
. "I note with regret that many Lodges are suspending members
without due and careful investigation as to the ability of delinquents
to pay, and I a/so note that. some Lodges are carrying delinquents
far b~);'ond the t1m.e when action should be taken pursuant to the plain
prov1s10ns of Sect10ns 117 and 118. My attention has also been called
to the unpleasant fact that Committees on Delinquent Members are
not actively functioning in some of our Lodges.
"An unhealthy and unnecessary financial condition is apparent
in many Lodges in that members in arrears for dues are too frequently

481

From the reports I find that a Committee on Delinquent Members had not been appointed in many of the Lodges, and that 138
Lodges had not taken any action relative to members delinquent for
over twelve months until after receipt of the above letter.
In his report one Secretary said, "I wish to state that there are a
large number of delinquents on our books and it seems to have been
the custom of this Lodge to let them ride, so to speak, and clean
house about every ten years, and I believe this has been due to no
statements being sent to the brothers."
On August 26, 1931, the same Secretary reported: "I find that
collecting dues is an easy ma tter if one can find the right party to
see the brother who is delinquent."
·
The progress made in his Lodge is testimony that the Master
had found "the right party" in many instances.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE Oli' CALIFORNIA

Another Secretary told me that the committee had been able to
coiled dues from members who would not answer his letters and who
would even cross the street to avoid meeting him; that now these
same members come to Lodge and no longer avoid meeting him.
I believe all Secretaries will join in the sentiment expressed by
one Secretary:
"This method of handling delinquents relieves the Secretary of
a lot of work and a responsibility. that for one I am glad to share."
l trust that my letk!r has awakened a new interest in our law on
this important subject. There is no portion of our written law that
can be more easily understood .if one but reads.

"6. That the Treasurer is hereby specifically authorized and
directed to use the' money collected each month from the members of
this said............................ Club to pay initiation fees of the members
selected at such a drawing.
"7. That should a member of this said ............................ Club die
before he has paid in the full sum of sixty dollars ($60.00) and before
he shall have received any of the degrees of Royal Arch Masonry or
should he be rejected by said Royal Arch Chapter, the remaining
members will make every effort to secure another Master Masor to
take his place in the Club; and the money paid in ' by the members so
rejected or deceased shall be returned to him or his beneficiary as
early as possible without detriment to the Club.
"8. That any member may withdraw from the Club at any time
prior to his being drawn to receive the degrees of Royal Arch Masonry,
upon his producing another Master Mason in good standing to take
his place in the club, and the two. shall make such arrangements as
are mutually agreeable for the repayment by the new member to the
withdrawing member of such sums as the latter. may have paid in
before his withdrawal, without the said............... .'................Club or the
treasurer being a party thereto.
"}). That after a member of said............................Club shall have
receive<! one or more degrees of Royal Arch Masonry, he shall be
considered in duty bound to complete his payments to the treasurer
of the Club. Should such member die however, before he has paid in
the fu ll sum of sixty dollars ($60.00), or should he be prevented from
completing h's payments by reason of serious illness, disability or
unavoidable circumstances, the remaining members of said......................
Club may agree to use the surplus fund money, should condition or
circumstance of said delinquent or <ieceased member justify such
action.
"10. That if a club member shall obtain any of the degrees in
said Royal Arch Chapter, a failure to pay the required fee into this
Club within a period of ten ( 10) months thereafter will be deemed a
violation of this agreement, and he shall be subject to the preferment
of Masonic charges against him, except as provided in paragraph 9."
It would appear from this contract that if a member of this
"Club" after he had received one or more degrees of Royal Arch
Mai;onry were to discover that in order to save himself from being
suspended from his Lodge for non-payment of dues it would be necessary for him to use that portion of the sixty dollars he had agreed to pay
into the "Club" equal to the initiation fee into the Council of Royal and
Select Masters, for the payment of his dues to his Lodge, these members of
the Royal Arch Chapter and Council of Royal and Select Masters
would have him charged with unmaionic conduct for the violation of
his agreement to pay the fuU sum of sixty dollars to the "Club."
These organizations, the prerequisite of membership wherein is
that a person be a Master Mason, in order to procure candidates even
resort to sending out advertising matter to Master Masons wherein
they belittle the Masonry of which the Master Mason is possessed.
One piece of advertising matter thus sent to Master Masons contains the following :

482

Conditions that Contribute to Suspensions
During the year l have made a study of the conditions that contribute to the suspension of members for non-payment of dues.
In the first place, the majority of our suspensions. are of members
who have left their Lodge localities. When we realize that all who
knock on our doors for admission select themselves as our candidates,
without solicitation on our part, and are required to wait until they
receive our <iegrees before they learn anything in regard to our Institution, it is not surprising that some take little interest in our fraternity
which they have thus joined. The natural thing for them to do is to
drop out when they get away from home, if they have not done so
before. Unless we develop Masonic interest in ·our members before
they move from the locality of their Lodges, and thus keep their
Masonic enthusiasm alive, .we will continue to lose those who may
constitute a valuable asset to the fraternity.
Another condition that contributes largely t~ our losses results
from too .much pursuasion exerted upon our membership, especially
our new members, to join some body or organization the prerequisite
of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason. Reports
have been made to me that members of these bodies or organizations
have solicited and persuaded Master Masons who were not financially
able to pay the initiation fees into these organizations (and thus
present their applications direct) to enter into a contract under the
guise of a "club," under the terms of which contract these Master
Masons would agree one with the other to contribute a fixed sum of
money in installments, to be contributed at certain fixed times. I quote
from a typical "agreement."
"$. That at the first meeting of said ............................ Club in each
calendar month covered by these. payments, a drawing shall be held
whereby three members ot this said.......................... Club shall be selected
each month to make application to............................ Royal Arch Chapter
N o ............. for the degrees of Roy al Arch Masonry, and after being
exalted as ~. Royal Arch Mason, application will be made to .................Council No............. for the Royal and Select Master Degree.

483

484

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"The whole of the English language is contained in the twenty-six
letter! of the alphabet, easily learned by a child. But without higher
education, what use would there be for the alphabet?
"It is also true that the Blue Lodge is the very foundation of
Masonry. No superstructure can be built without first laying the
foundation, but unless we proceed to erect, adorn and furnish the
Temple the foundation is of little use.
"And so, in some such way as this, does the Scottish Rite make
real and vital in our lives the truth but partly revealed in the Blue
Lodge? . ..
"If, as a Master Mason, you entertain these sentiments and can
subscribe to them, an invitation is most earnestly extended to you to
share in the knowledge and glories of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry."
But the organization that goes into advertising in a big way is the
Sciots. That organization buys full pages of our daily newspapers.
One full-page advertisement in a city newspaper published on April
30, 1931, has in the· upper left and right hand corners, an emblem
consisting of a square and compass and the letter G. Between these
two emblems there is a pyramid. Below the pyramid in large type is
the following:
"The pyramids of early Egypt were built by co-operation. Thousands of progressive humans labored to build these great monuments
which have withstood the ravages of time. Without pyramids Egypt
would not be so interesting.
"The business and professional men of this city are building
Business Pyramids on the sands of............................. Co-operation will
make them stronger and more lasting monuments."
Below this is the following :
"Upon this page the reader will find the faces of some of the
representa tive members of the .................... Pyramid No ............. , Ancient
Egyptian Order of Sciots, an organization composed of Master
Masons in good standing who are ple.dged to the doctrine of 'Boost
One Another.' "
. On the sides and the bottom of the page are the advertising cards
and half-tones of Sciots, each asking that the other Sciot "scratch his
back."
Throughout this advertisement the emblems and terms of Craft
Masonry are used in order to get the business of the public on the
strength of Masonry.
In other advertisements Pyramids of the Sciots publish in alphabetical order, a list of the business or professions their members are
engaged in, and opposite each businss or profession, the names of their
members engaged therein, and further publish an additional list of the
members in alphabetical order, and opposite each name, the business
or profession in which the Master Mason, who is also a Sciot, is engaged. Then when the Pyramid says "Boost One Another" its members may easily distinguish which of the Master Masons in any

L}RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

485

particular community are Sciots, entitled to have their business
"boosted" and not mere Master Masons who are not entitled to support
in their business by brethren who belong to that "Business Pyramid"
composed of Master Masons in good standing who are pledged to the
doctrine of "Boost One Another."
In addition to newspaper advertising and the publication of lists
as above set forth, this organization propagates this unmasonic
doctrine of preferring one Master Mason who joins its organizatio~,
to another who fails· or refuses to join, by use of placards posted m
public places and by canvas streamers stretched across public streets.
On these are used the square and compass, the letter G, and the
term Master Mason, used of course to place its members before the
public as Master Masons.
The business inducements offered, and the threats made . by
Sciots to induce and compel Master Masons to join their organization,
as reported to me by Master Masons, amount to a "racket."
Master Masons in the various localities where this organization
has held its ceremonials have reported actions of Sciots that are clear
examples of unmasonic conduct. In such cases the Ju~ior Warden
should prefer charges in compliance with his duty as plamly set forth
in section 189 of the Constitution.
Brethren, the Sciots is not only NOT a Masonic organization, but
is an unmasonic organization. I base this opinion on its doctrine as
advertised to the public and on its practices as reported to. me by
Master Masons, both within and without its organization.
I have the highest regard for the York and Scottish Rite bodi:s
and for the Shrine. The Shrine in no way claims to be a Masomc
organization. Unfortunately there are members of these organiz~tions,
as there are of our Lodges, who commit acts that are unmasomc, and
in those instances the duty of Master Masons or Junior Wardens of
Lodges is clear. But this is not a criticism of the organizatio~ or
organizations to which they belong. A Master Mason wh~ receive~
honors from any of these organizations should either appreciate them
or get out of the organization. I know that I a~preciate honor.s I
have received from the Scottish Rite, the York Rite and the Shrme.
I believe that any man who can afford to take the degrees in e!ther ~r
both of these Rites of Freemasonry will the better appreciate his
Masonry.
I wish here to express my appreciation of a courtesy paid your
Grand Master at a \eccption tendered to him by the 97th and 98th
Masonic Districts at Long Beach.
It happened that Long Beach Commandery, of which the present
Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery of California is a

486

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

member, was tendering to him a reception. The conflict of the two
meetings was not realized until too late to change either reception.
There were present at the reception to the Grand Commander nearly
all of the officers of the Grand Commandery, severa1 of whom were
officers, past officers, committeemen and members of the Grand
Lodge, and none of whom would have traveled from their Masonic
districts to attend the local reception tendered to me as Grand Master
by the 97th .and 98th Masonic Districts.
Interrupting the progress of the reception which occasioned their
presence, these brethren changed from their Knight Templar uniforms
to business suits and, headed by the Grand Commander, appeared as
Master Masons before the altar of the tiled Lodge in which the reception to the Grand Master was being held and expressed their first
allegiance to the Grand Lodge of California.
I have already expressed my appreciation of the truly Masonic
spirit which actuated those Master Masons who compose the membership of the Widows and Orphans Fund of Aahmes Temple of the
Shrine in taking the action hereinbefore reported.
But the fact remains that no matter whether or not it may be
desirable for a Master. Mason to join any body, order, or organization
the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master
Mason, he should realize that his Lodge bears the same relationship
to the organization that he may later join as the necessaries of life
bear to those luxuries which are but comforts.
This is what often happens: A man may join a Lodge. He can·
afford that. He can also afford to pay nine, twelve or fifteen dollars
as dues per year to his Lodge. Then some enthusiastic member of
another organization persuades him to join that other organization
and, so influenced by the solicitation of members oi various organizations, he proceeds to pyramid memberships that he cannot afford. He
faces an obligation of forty or fifty dollars or more pe·r year in dues.
Even though he may have been financially able to afford the fees
required by other organizations at the time he joined them, financial
difficulties may arise which make it impossible for him to meet his
dues in all the organizations that he has joined.
Since no one has explained to him that he may drop out of all of
those other organizations and still be a Master Mason in good standing, if he pays his Lodge dues only, he drops all.
A very large portion of the Master Masons who are suspended
from our Lodges for non-payment of dues are members of one or more
of these other organizations. Oftentimes these other organizations, I
suppose because they need the money, continue to collect dues from
these suspended Master Masons and retain them as members in good

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

487

standing in that or those organizations that have succeeded in collecting dues from them.
Our Lodges should give their newly raised Master Masons a full
appreciation of the relative positions of Lodges and these ot_her. organizations. If this were done before they join other organt~ation~
than the Lodge we would save many members who are lost t roug
lack of this kn~wledge. Every member should kno'; that t?e Lodge
is the Masonic body in which he should keep good his standing.
Officers Associations
In the year 1850, when ritualistic work was di~erent in many
Lodges, because of the different jurisdictions from ~h1ch th:. ~embe~~
had come the movement to draft and choose. a ritual w ic wou k
truly repr~sent the Masonic spirit as we know. it, was starte?. nlt ft~~e
until 1899 to bring it to its present shape, with the_ excepho . o .
.
.
d . 1924 Ritual is important m our Institution,
minor corrections ma e m
·
"d
h
h that
because Masonry imparts its lessons to the cand1 ~te t roug
medium and the candidate can only grasp and appreciate those les~ons
when the ritual is intelligently given. Grand Lodge has alw:y~ given
attention to this important department of Masonry thro~g. : 1~· em;
ployment of a Grand Lecturer. Through the able an ..:vn e ~~~n
1
leadership of our present Grand Lecturer, the Very . ~rs. 1p. u
Th as J Baker over a period of twenty-four years, our JUnsd1ct1on
sta~:s se~ond to' none in that department. But because that hde~ar~­
ment of Masonry is the only one that Grand Lodge has ~mp. a~iz~ •
"Masonry" and "Ritual" have become synonymous terms m this Jurisdiction.
We who compose this Grand Lodge, all hope to be, or are, or have
been Masters.
.
We know that the average Master is outstanding if he 1s a good
ritualist; but the night he does not have a d~gree to confe~ ~e I h;s ?~
headache, and he says, "I haven't got a candidate. What s a .
There is nothing to do except to open and close and go home.;:; d1sma and a certain broken-heartedness. And when the average ~s.ter
co~es to a stated meeting he is lost if any questio~ c~mes up requirm~
h"
roficiency in those portions of the Constitution and Genera .
~:g~lations of the Grand Lodge which relate to the government of a

o:

Lodge.
Today practically every Inspector in this jurisdict~on has .an
Officers Association (and all should have) that meets m m~st mexcept during certain months of vacation or
stances once a m onth (
.
ffi
t d
annual installation of officers). At those meetings the o cers s u Y
d d"scuss those things b~yond the ritual that every officer should
~:ow \ 0 be qualified to govern the Lodge over which he has been or

488

489

PROCEEDINGS OP- THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

may be called to preside. These meetings are attended by all officers
of the Lodges within the district. The officers of a Lodge often present
the topics discussed in the Officer·s Association in their respective
Lodges. In every instance where this has been done the officers
testify that their members are interested and are desirous of knowledge
on the topics presented. The discussion of these topics in the Lodge
avoids the feeling that members · express of a clique running the
Lodge, after they ask officers questions about the Lodge and get no
intelligent answers, due in most cases to inability of the officer to
answer the question asked.
I respectfully suggest that if the succeeding Grand Master were
to divide the State of California in three zones and request the Deputy
Grand Master and the Grand Wardens to visit the Officers Associations in their respective zones, it would not only assist the officers of
Lodges but would be a great preparation for those Grand Lodge
officers for the duties of the office to which they are to succeed.

that we have laws, rules and regulations that should be fellowed has
cleared our rolls of many members who were but potential liabilities.

Digest
At our last communication Grand Master Wollenberg recommended that Grand Lodge publish a Digest and Compilation of Approved Decisions and Regulations, so that the same might be
accessible to all officers in the jurisdiction.
A Digest has been compiled in which an attempt has been made
to set forth those decisions and regulations that have been adopted
by Grand Lodge since its organization that are still in force as Regulations. In some cases decisions have been added that are now superceded by provisions enacted as parts of the Constitution or by
Regulations, with the view of explaining the purposes and the history
of. our present written law.
Grand Lodge is indebted to our Very Worshipful Grand Secretary
for the attractive form in which this Digest is presented to you.
General Condition of Masonry
I believe the general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction
is better than it has ever been, at least in recent years. Although depressed business conditions have sorely affected members of our
Lodges, Lodges through Delinquent Members Committees have given
them just consideration in most cases. If in any instances the committees have not acquainted themselves sufficiently with the reasons
for which members were suspended, they can and should make further
investigation and correct any errors that may have been made.
Through intelligent study in ·our Officers Associations our Lodges
are not only continuing in high standing in our ritual but are paying
attention to things Masonic outside the ritual. An awakened sense

Appreciation
I wish to express my appreciation to those officers of Lodges who
have done so much to improve conditions in their respective Lodges
during this year; to the Inspectors who have so efficiently discharged
their important duties, and in many instances done much more than
might be said to be their duties; to our Grand Lecturer, with whom
I have been in close association since 1911, who has given me all the
assistance and co-operation that his office could afford; to our Grand
Secretary for his counsel and assistance that he is so well qualified to
render; to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens for their co-operation and assistance; to all Grand Lodge
officers and committeemen for services rendered; and last but by no
means least for the opportunity and privilege of becoming better
acquainted with not only those with whom I was frequently in contact
but with those good brethren and their families whom I met throughout the jurisdiction. The memory of the courtesies and reception accorded me and members of my family that chanced to be with me at
times will be ever cherished by my family and me. Those courtesies
are too numerous to mention, and to mention one without mentioning
all, would be unfair. I therefore request that all those present take
back to the good brethren and friends at home, both in California and
the Hawaiian Islands, this expression of my deepest gratitude for their
kindnesses to my family and me.
Conclusion
In bringing to a close the year I have been privileged to serve as
your Grand Master, I trust that my labors may have accomplished
something at least, for the upbuilding and advancement of Masonry.
In relinquishing my high office I pledge continued support of the
principles of our Institution.

The Deputy Grand Master referred the message to William B. Ogden, Joel S. Conklin and Clarence L. Fraser, for
segregation and distribution to appropriate committees.

•
GRAND LODGE Ol<' CALTFORNIA

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Madre No. 408 ; Blythe, No. 473 ; Melrose No. 602, and 'The Gardens No.
621. The total amount of unpaid dues is $824.20.

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY

Growth During Twenty Years

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor of presenting my twenty-fourth an'!lual report,
with a statement of all moneys received for account of Grand Lod.ge,
the Masonic Homes, and the .Emergency Relief Fund, for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1931, with a summary of d isbursements, together
with a statement of funds received since the close of the fiscal year,
to and including September 30, 1931.

Membership
For the first time in the history of our Grand Lodge, no new
Lodges were formed in the year. Our membership as of July 31, 1930,
was 142,062; it is now 142,422, a net growth for the year of 360. We
have 580 Lodges on our registry.
The work for the year is shown in the following table:
Membership July .31, 1930.................................................................. :..... 142,062
July 31, 1931, initiations reported .................................. 4,146
Passed .................................................................................. 4,321
Raised .............................................................................................. 4,465
Affiliated from other jurisdictions..........................................
434
Affiliated from California LodgeL.........................................
794
Restored ..........................................................................................
246
Gained by error............................................................................
28
Gross gain ..............................................................................
5,967
148.029
Withdrawn ................................................................................... . 1,157
Suspended, non-payment dues .................................................... 2,602
Expelled ........................................................................................ ..
43
Died .............................................................................................. .. 1,767
Loss by error .............................................................................. ..
38
Total los s.~ ..................................................,......................... ..
Membership, July 31, 1931................................................ ..
Net gain for the year .................................................... ..
Dues remitted ...................................................................... 2,959
Dual members....................................................................
10
Increase in five years ........................................................20,766

491

5,607
142,422
360

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
For various reasons the following Lodges failed to pay (some in
part) their dues to Grand Lodge and the Masonic Homes: Sierra

Year

Raised Affiliated

Rest' ed

S1up.

Withdrew

Died

M embers I ncrea.re

1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931

3063
3132
3507
3257
3513
3869
4551
5248
9336
8831
8771
8005
8187
8177
8147
8089
6858
6624
6215
4465

91
113
133
146
126
191
245
238
323
303
210
216
242
222
222
219
262
305
279
246

474
491
532
742
638
717
609
550
460
386
467
507
745
818
982
953
1178
1294
1734
2602

923
689
856
738
753
764
725

609
751
1012
811
714
864
810
1218
949
923
1044
1045
1124
1223
1255
1383
1039
1699
1638
1767

48,315
50,257
53,179
55,341
57,856
60,393
63,986
67,810
76,873
85,181
93,179
100,583
108,173
115,517
122,412
129,309
134,302
138,652
142,062
142,422

1023

977
1223
1088
1063
933
930
957
1644
1324
1586
1477
1720
1925
1870
2083
1985
1680
1571
1228

776
1378
1362
1481
1473
1323
1475
1719
1380
1478
1276
1220
1157

2479
1964
2922
2162
2515
2537
3593
3824
8983
8308
7998
7404
7590
7344
6895
6897
4993
4350
3410
360

Gold Tokens for Veteran Members
Name
Raised
Ackerman, Fred P ...................-.... June -, 1876
Akers, Charles D ...................-....-Apr. 16, 1878
Alvarez, Luis Fernandez.............. Apr. 1, 1876
Ambach, Herman ..........................Jan. 13, 1881
Babcock, John Pease.................... Feb. 10, 1881
Bailey, Ira E ................................... Dec. 2, 1880
Bailey, Wellman Jenness..............- - 1877
Barnes, George S.-......................-June 11, 1881
Barton, Henry J ohn......................Sept. 13, 1880
Baxter, Robert J ..................." ...... May 4, 1878
Bernard, Adolph............................Apr. 8, 1876
Bidwell, John............................- - - 1881
Bradley, Robert E .........................July 15, 1867
Brown, Patrick.............................. Jan. 23, 1879
Bryson, George W .........................Mar. 2, 1875

Lodge
Capitol City No. 499
Charter Rock No. 410
Arlington No. 414
Redondo No. 328
California No. 1
Janesville No. 232
Callayomi No. 282
Alhambra No. 322
Howard No. 37
Santa Cruz No. 38
Claremont No. 436
Sotoyome No. 123
San Bernardino No. 348
Pasadena No. 272
York No. 423

492
Name

PitUL!.i!:~UlNUS

l>F 'i'HE

Raised

Bond, Charles Scott...............,......Oct. 30, 1871
Bower, John G...............................Mar. 12, 1881
Boyd, David Wilson............______ Aug. 2, 1879
Busby, Francis Marion................ June 26, 1880
Bush, Robert Edwin......................- - 1881
Chenoweth, James M ...................- - 1870
Clark, George Dickson............... july 19, 1881
Clarke, James................................_May 31, 1877
Clark, Lewis Delancy.................... Apr. 25, 1874
Clark, Thomas P ...........--............Nov. 20, 1871
Clyborne, Frank A .......................May 14, 1881
Cody, Frederick Alonzo.............. Dec. 19, 1873
Coleman, Calvin Sawyer........c.....Sept. 16, 1880
Collins, John Samuel....................- - 1875
Conant, Frank Adelbert................ Feb. 22, 1881
Condari, Theo. George.................. May 21, 1881
Cooley, Menzo Wesley................Mar. 12, 1870
Covert, William H ....................... Apr. -, 1870
Cowles, Lyman Warner..............Mar. 19, 1881
Cowles, Newton E .........................Sept. 9, 1878
Cox, Nathan Henry......................- - 1881
Cuthbert, William W ................... June 25, 1880
Cutler, Thomas Barnes................ June 18, 1881
Damkroeger, Daniel August...... Apr. 19, 1881
Davis, William C...........................Oct. 17, 1870
Deaner, Hiram Franklin..............Mar. 20, 1880
Denman, Frank H .........................Mar. 30, 1881
Dickson, Charles Sanford............ Feb. 8, 1879
Dieterick, John Frederick............- - 1870
Dingee, William Jackson.............. Oct. 11, 1879
Edwards, Simon Josiah................- - 1869
Estabrook, Jos. Sutcliffe.............. Nov. 17, 1880
Fitting, Hans H ............................. Sept. 17, 1878
Fleming, Geo. Alexander............ Oct. 3, 1873
Flint, Thomas ................................Apr. 23, 1881
Folk, Benj. Woodhull..................Mar. 20, 1880
Gallagher, Jos. James.................... ~ov. 27, 1880
Gardner, Charles Andrus ............ Apr. 22, 1876
Garnett, Wm. Henry.................._Apr. 9, 1881
Garrard, John J.-···········-········-··-July . 7, 1877
Girardelly, Adolph ........................ Apr. 11, 1881
Glass, Silas Franklin.................. _Apr. 3, 1880
Goddard, Daniel Nevada............- - - 1881

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge

Magnolia No. 242
Yolo No. 81
Oriental No. 144
Olive Branch No. 269
Durant No. 268
La Fayette No. 126
Golden Gate No. 30
Pasadena No. 272
Elsinore No. 289
Confidence No. 203
Humboldt No. 79
Mt. Shasta No. 281
Redondo No. 328
Martinez No. 41
Magnolia No. 242
Speranza Italiana No. 219
Fresno No. 247
Palos Verdes No. 389
Pomona No. 246
Gardena No. 372
Sotoyome No. 123
Sequoia No. 349
Humboldt No. 79
Golden Gate No. 30
Lexington No. 104
Alcatraz No. 244
Petaluma No. 180
Evergreen No. 259
West Lake No. 392
Oakland No. 188
Pasadena No. 272
Traver No. 294
San Bernardino No. 348
Friendship No. 210
Texas No. 46
Mt. View No. 194
Athens No. 228
Pasadena No. 272
Silveyville No. 201
Fresno No. 247
Santa Ana No. 241
Ontario No. 301
Sotoyome No. 123

Name
Raised
Gordon, Jackson -·········.................June 30, 1879
Goss, John Herman...................... Dec. 15, 1880
Gribner, Geo. Thomas .................. Nov. 17, 1880
Guedermann, R. Friedrich..........- - 1875
Hamilton, John ··--········-················Aug. 5, 1872
Harmon, John Enoch.................... Oct. 11, 1880
Henderson, John Alex.................Oct. - , 1878
Hopkins, Timothy.......................... N ov. 30, 1880
Haswell, Wm. Burgess................ Aug. 31, 1869
Janes, Luther Foster....................Mar. 28, 1881
J eni:ks, George................................Aug. 18, 1880
Jenkins, James Frederick......,.....June 21, 1877
Johnson, Lewis .............:................ Apr. 21, 1877
Kip, James ··-······:.........................-Sept. 7, 1880
Knights, Wm. Durant............. May 25, 1880
Koch, Adolph Jacob......................Sept. 12, 1881
Lachman, Albert......................,.....Mar. 31, 1881
Letroadec, Julien L .......................- - 1880
Lowden, Henry Larkin................Mar. 26, 1881
Matthews, Josh Wesley............- - - - 1881
Mattingly, John Andrew..............Mar. 21, 1879
McBride, John Henry..................- - 1875
McCallum, Peter....................:.......Feb. -, 1881
Meador, John......
Apr. 24, 1875
Mensing, Herman Rudolph ..........Mar. 1, 1877
Mock, Arthur...,....................-........Sept. 18, 1880
Monsarratt, James Melville........June 23, 1881
Morris, John Sylvanus..................July -, 1871
Murray, John R._..........................Sept. 17, i873
Nelson, Alfred Henry..................Feb. -, 1868
Norton, Charles R. ......................-Oct. 15, 1880
0rd, John Charles........................-Dec. 4, 1880
Ormsby, Edwin Samuel................Dec. 23, 1863
Perkins, Henry A,....................,...- - 1880
Price, Wm. Enos............................ Oct. 20, 1880
Pritchard, Stephen Lacy..............June 28, 1880
Ramsey, Thomas Abner.............. Nov. 13, 1880
Reed, Franklin Pierce..................Jan. 22, 1881
Robinson, Geo. Vancil.................. Dec. 11, 1880
Rhodes, Johnson Guy................•... Feb. 10, 1873
Roth, Maximilian .......................... Dec. 4, 1875
Ryan, John J ...................................Nov. 13, 1876
Sallee, Robert Franklin................June 17, 1875
A •••

M . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . .. . . . .

493

Lodge

Kerman No. 420
Eagle Rock No. 422
Corinthian No. 9
Acacia No. 438
Humboldt No. 79
Howard No. 37
San Bernardino No. 348
Oriental No. 144
West Lake No. 392
Glendale No. 544
Claremont No. 436
West Lake No. 392
Whittier No. 323
Oriental No. 144
Sacramento No. 40
San Jose No. 10
Fidelity No. 120
La Parfaite Union No. 17
Trinity No. 27
Sotoyome No. 123
Fresno No. 247
·
Santa Cruz No. 38
Alpha No. 431
Olive Branch No. 269
Charter Rock No. 410
Oakland No. 188
Hawaiian No. 21
Corona No. 324
Sincerity No. 132
Chico No. 111
La Puente No. 446
Seal Beach No. 616
West Lake No. 392
Fallbrook No. 317
Bethlehem No. 453
South Gate No. 320
Lassen No. 149
South West No. 283
Las Pal mas No. 336
Fresno No. 247
Fidelity No. 120
Friendship No. 210
Fillmore No. 379

494

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
·Raised
Lodge
Seay, Robert Horsley..............,.•._Sept. 26, 1874 South Pasadena No. 36i
Severance, Frank Billings ......:..... Oct. 2, 1880 · Mendocino No. 179
Skow, Niels Andersen.............___Aug. -, 1877 Fruitvale No. 336
Slattery, Richard Edward......c.....July 19, 1881 Alpha No. 431
Spear, Frederick ......................<.....]a!!. 21, 1878 Inyo No. ·221
Stern, Fred ·Marcus......................J une 30, 1881 Friendship No. 210
Steves, John Henry......................Jan. 29, 1881 St. Helena No. 93
Stewart, Granville Qu.incy..........Sept. 8, 1873 Lebanon No. 495
Stirewalt, Martin Sandy:..........._Dec. 18, 1880 Traver No. 294
Sykes, Joseph Smith......................- - 1878 Durant No. 268
Terrass, Milford Byron............- ..- - 1874 Phoenix No. 178
Terrill, George M .......................-May 17, 1881 Pacific No. 136
Tonningsen, John _..................- ....Oct. 26, 1880 Oriental No. 144
Trost, John Henry........................Mar. 31, 1877 Ferndale No. 193
Vail, David......................................June 30, 1881 Pasadena No. 272
Walstadt, August ..................- ....-Jan. 1, 1881 John D. Spreckels No. 657
Welton, Arthur Thomas..............Sept. 2, 1880 Snow Mountain No. 271
Woodward, Oscar J ..................._June 25, 1875 Fresno No. 247
Wyman, Henry J ..·- ····-·······-···--May 27, 1875 Fullerton No. 339
Yoho, Samuel R ...........-............ _ - - 1878 Santa Rosa No. 57
Zibbell, James W .....................___Dec. 4, 1874 Fresno No. 247
Representatives Appointed
May 19, 1931, Albert Gildred was appointed our Representative
near the Grand Lodge of Ecuador. ·
July 1, 1931, Jacob Peri;ibroke was appointed as our Representative near the Grand Lodge of New York.
October 29, 1930, William Henry Webster Stevenson was appointed as our Representative near the United Grand Lodge of
Queensland.
Duplicate Charters Issued
The charter of Sanger -Lodge No. '316 was destroyed by fire on
July 7, 1931, and by order of the Grand Master a duplicate of the
original charter was issued.
Pinole Lodge No. 353 also had the misfortune to lose its charter
and all its paraphernalia by fire in July, 1931, and ·a duplicate of its
original charter was issued:
Petition to Change Name of Lodge
Owensmouth Lodge No. 611, petitions to have its nam·e changed
to Canoga, that now being the name of the town. The petition has
been placed with the _Committee on Policy and Ge.neral Purposes:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

495

Conference of Grand Secretaries
In accordance with the action of Grand Lodge at its last annual
communication, I attended the annual conference of Grand Secretaries held at Washington, D. C., February 24, 1931. Twenty-seven
jurisdictions were represented by their Grand Secretaries. Three
main subjects were discussed: the matter of uniform blanks, the
administration of interjurisdictional matters affecting d ual memberships; and uniform receipts for due~-all pertinent subjects. The
conference of course had no power to enact any legislation, but the
interchange of ideas was worth w hile, and I returned home in the
belief that in general the laws and procedure of the Grand Lodge of
California were better than many other jurisdictions. Probably the
most illuminating report was presented by the Grand Secretary of
Virginia, relating to dual membershi p. That jurisdiction has always
permitted its members to affiliate with other Lodges, in and out of
the State, without requiring them to withdraw from the mother
Lodge. It now has twelve hundred who are members of two or more
Lodges, and not one of them has ever been suspended fo~ n.o~­
payment of dues or because of unmasonic conduct.- Our V1rgm1a
brethren are heartily in favor of continuing the permission of dual
membetship, largely because such members are thereby kept in active
Masonic work, and incidentally because it increases the revenues of
the Lodges.
,
I enjoyed the personal contact with my fellow Grand Secretaries,
and believe the conference was worth the time and expense.
Unfinished Business
The petitions of Maricopa Lodge No. 434 and Temblor Lodge
No. 477 to grant each of said Lodges exclusive jurisdiction over territory adjacent to and surrounding such Lodges, presented 1ast year
and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, were by . recommendation of said committee, laid over for consideration until the
1931 communication.
The Committee on Jurisprudence also requested further time in
which to consider and prepare legislation to carry out the recommendation of Grand Master Wollenberg with respect to the conferring of degrees by foreign language Lodges; and the matter wa'.
continued until this communication.
Trial Records
No. 624-Record received last year too late to be acted upon. A
member of Needles Lodge No. 326; expelled October, 1929.
No. 640-(Retrial) A member of Eldorado Lodge No. 26. Expelled March 3, 1931.

497

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 669-A member of Service Lodge No. 594. Expelled November 3, 1930.
No. 671-A member of Piedmont Lodge No. ~21. Expelled
October 7, 1930.
No. 672-A member of Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297. Expelled
November ·6, 1930. Appeal by the defendant.
No. 673-A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Acquitted December 4, 1930. Appeal by accuser. ·
No. 674--A member of Glendale Lodge No. 544. Expelled
January 1, 1931.
No. 675-A member of Evergreen Lodge No. 259. Expelled
February 6, 1931.
No. 676-A member of Unity Lodge No. 368. Acquitted February 3, 1931.
No. 677-A member of Highland Park Lodge No. 382. Sentenced
to reprimand January 5, 1931.
No. 678-A member of Highland Park Lodge No. 382. Sentenced
to reprimand January 5, 1931.
No. 679-A member of Long Beach Lodge No. 327. Expelled
March 5, 1931.
No. 680-A member of Sun Garden Lodge No. 530. Expelled
February 2, 1931.
No. 681-A member of Lincoln Lodge No. 470. Acquitted March
3, 1931.
No. 682-A member of Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389. Expelled
March 3, 1931.
No. 683-A member of Hiram Lodge No. 43. Acquitted March 6,
1931.
No. 684--A member of Lassen Lodge No. 149. Acquitted March
3, 1931. Appeal by the accuser.
No. 685-A member of Golden State Lodge No. 358. Tried by
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202. Sentenced to reprimand February 3, 1931.
Appeal by the accuser.
No. 686-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Expelled
April 2, 1931.
No. 687-A member of Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569. Suspended April 2, 1931.
No. 688-A member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360. Expelled
April 6, 1931.
No. 689-A member of Evergreen Lodge No. 259. Expelled April
3, 1931.
.

No. 690-A member of Ione Lodge No. 80. Expelled April 4,
1931.
No. 691-A member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120. Suspended May
7, 1931.
No. 692-A member of Progressive Lodge No. 578. Acquitted
December 2, 1930.
No. 693-A member of Progressive Lodge No. 578. Acqui~ted
February 4, 1931.
No. 694--A member of Justic~ Lodge No. 549. Expelled June 1,
1931.
N~. 695-A member ·of Temescal Lodge No. 314. Suspended
June 4, 1931.
No. 696-A member of Evergreen Lodge No. 259. ·Expelled
June 5, 1931.
No. 697-A member of Roosevelt Lodge No. 500. Expelled June
3, 1931.
No. 698-A member of Tehama Lodge No. 3. Expelled July 6,
1931.
No. 699-A member of Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422. Expelled
July 6, 1931.
No. 700--A member of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625. Expelled
I
July 8, 1931.
No. 701-A member of Argonaut Lodge No. 461. Expelled July
2, 1931.
No. 702-A member of Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595.
Expelled July 7, 1931.
No. 703-A member of Alamo Lodge .No. 122. Expelled July 4,
1931.
No. 704--A member of Atwater Lodge No. 622. Expelled May 1,
1931.
No. 705-A member of Monterey Lodge No. 217. Acquitted
August 5, 1931. Appeal by accuser.
No. 706-A member of San Pasqual Lodge No. 452. Expelled
June 6, 1931.
No. 707-A member of Wasco Lodge No. 583. Tried by Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, suspended August 6, 1931. Appeal by accused.
No. 708-A member of Santa Monica Lodge No. 307. Suspended
June 1, 1931.
No. 709-A member of Porterville Lodge No. 303. Verdict of
reprimand August 13, 1931. Appeal by accuser.

496

GRAND .LODGE ; OF CALIFORNIA

498

1

499

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 710-A member of La Brea Lodge No. 650. Acquitted June
2, 1931.
No. 711-A member of Coalinga Lodge No. 387. Expelled September 10, 1931.
No. 712-A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Acquitted
September 14, 1931.
No. 32-A petition for restoration. A member of Phoenix Lodge
No. 178. Expelled June 3, 1907.
No. 49-A petition for restoration. A member of Las Palmas
Lodge No. 366. Expelled October 17, 1907.
·
No. 322-A petition for restoration. A member of Los Angeles
Lodge No. 42. Expelled August 7, 1922.
No. 349-A petition for restoration. A member of Hollywood
Lodge No. 355. Suspended January 4, 1923.
No: 647-A petition for restoration. A member of Naval Lodge
No. 87. Expelled May 1, 1930.
No. ·653-Record sent back for correction. A member of Sequoia
Lodge No. 349. Expelled July 1, 1930.
No. 361-Petition for restoration. ·A fellow craft, Golden West
Lodge No. 455. Expelled July 3, 1923.
No. 643-;A member of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42. Petition for
restoration.
Life Memberships
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing !or life
member_ships as follows: .
Mariposa 'No. 24,' $150; Startislaus No. 206, $150; Palos Verdes
No. 389, $150; Carpinteria No. 4~, $500; San Gabriel ' No. 446, $200;
Harbor No. 502, $150; Alta Loma No. 643, $200.
Dispensations Issued .
The Grand Master has approved requests for special dispensations for va~ious _purposes,_ as . follows:
To re-ballot upon candidates rejected wit~in twelvi: 1nonths:
Doric No. 216; Van Nuys No. 450; Palms No. 512; Euclid
No. 519.
To elect ·officers at a time athet t.han tltat fi~ed by law:
Forest No. 66; Rose's Bar No. 89; Sincerity No. 132; Rio Vista
No. 208; At.h ens No. 228; Guadalupe No. 237; Snow Mountain No.
271; Arroyo No. 274; Santa Lucia No. 302; Huntington · Beach No.
380;. La Mesa No: -407; Silver Trowel No. 415; Lancaster No. 437i
Riverbank No. 459; Beverly Hills No. 528; Southland No. 618;
Lomita No. 644; Livingston No.' 658.' · ·
·
·

To receive and act upon petitions 'from me~bers of th~_ Army and
-Navy who did not have the tequired -~rsidential qualifications: :
~
Naval No. 87; Schofield No: 443 ;_ Vallejo No. 4S7 {3); · Point
:Loma No. -620.
To receive and act. npo11 petitions without reference to a committee:
Nevada No. 13; Alta Loma No. 643.

Amendments to ·By-Laws
Chan,qing . time of ;tatFd meetings: You~t No. ·12; . Ophir No. 33;
Clinton No. 119; Santa Ana No. 241; Silver Cord No. 505;' Mount
Olive No. 506; Craftsmen No. 559; Jubilee No. 604; Benevolence No. ·
631; Ojai No. 663; Greenleaf No. 670; Altadena No. 678.
Excepti,.;,g holid.ays a; stated meeiings! Speranza l taliana No. 219;
Santa Ana No. 241; Temescal No. 314; Alisa! No. 321; Corona No.
324; West Gate No. 335 ; Palos Verdes· No: 389; Elysian No. 418;
Fairmount No. 435 ; Park No. 449 ; Riverbank No. 459; Center ·No.
465 ; Liberta·s No. 466; Mt. Davidson No. 481; Bell No. 483; Silver
Cord No. 505; Palms No. 512 ; Sunrise No: 522; Glendale No. 544;
Fairfax No.- 556; Craftsmen No. 559; South Park No. 563; Park
Boulevard No. 568; Hillcrest No. 573; J~bilee No. 604; Southland
No. 618; A. F. E. Irwin .No. 645; Hawthorne No. 647~
lnereasing dues : Tuolumne No. 8, to $12; San Buenaventura No.
-214, to $20; Santa Lucia ·No. 302, to $24; Brawley No. 402, ·to $15;
.Riverbank No. 459, to $9; America No. 475, to $12; Seaside No. 504,
to $12; Signal No. 543, to $12; West Adams No. 565, to $12; Sunnyside. No. 577, to $12; · Guardian No. 596; to $12; Poinsettia No. 633,
to $20; Composite Lodge No. 639, to $12; Alta Loma No. 643, to $12;
Menlo Park No. 651, to $12; Los Cerritos No. 674, to $12.
Increasing fees: . Valley No. 135, to $50; Santa Ana No: 241, to
$100; Coachella· No. 476,· to $75; Silver Cord No. 505, to $10e>; Jubilee
No. 604, to $100.
Decreasing.dues: Orl~nd No. 265, to $9; Vet-eran No. 373, to $12.
Decreasing f~es: Apollo No. 396, to $100; Los Cerritos No. 674,
to $80.
Fixing affiliation f ees: Valley No. 135, $12; Santa Ana No. 241, $1;
Silver Cord No. 505, $1.
Decreasing affiliation fees: Acorn No. 494, to $10; A. F. E. Irwin
No. 645, to $5.
Eliminating affiliation fees: Mt. Jackson No. 295; Riverbank No.
459; Carmelita No. 599; James A. Foshay No. 641.

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(:hangiiig place of meetings: Martinez No. 41; Tuscan No. 261;
Lompoc No. 262; Santa Paula No. 291;.Pinole No. 353; South Pasadena No. 367; Burbank No. 406; Clovis No. 417; Roosevelt No. 500;
Mt. Olive No. 506; Alexander Hamilton No. 535; White Pine No. 555;
Craftsmen No. 559; El Sereno No. 588; Escalon No. 591; Service No.
594; Granada No. 608; Temple City No. 612; Southland No. 618:
Benevolence No. 631; Veritas No. 640; Lomita No. 644; Greenleaf
No. 670.
Report of Audi~ors
Finance Committee, Grand Lodge, F. & A, M. of California:
In accordance with your authotization, we have audited the accounts
of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1931 and submit herewith certain financial statements as follows:
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash · Receipts and Disbursements--General Fund.
Exhibit B: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Received for Account
of Masonic Homes.
Exhibit C: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements--Emergency Relief Fund.
Exhibit D: Grand Treasurer's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit E: Grand Treasurer's Report of Assets on Hand July 31,
1931.
This audit covered the cash funds received during the year ended
July 31, 1931 from the annual returns for the fiscal year ended July 31,
1930. Funds received and on hand at the date of our audit from annual
returns for the fiscal year 1931 were not included in our examination.
We certify that the attached statements, with exception as to the
stated value of the securities on hand, set forth the condition of the
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California at July 31, 1931, and that a
proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
RucKsTELL & LAND, Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

501

Exhibit A
Cash Receipts and Disbursements-Grand Secretary
}'OR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1931
General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1930...- .................- ....-............................ $ 37,205.52
Dues from Lodges ................................ :.........................$137,605.30
Charter fees ....................................................................
150.00
Dispensations ........................ :............................... :.........
180.00
Collections for Secretary's and Treasurer's bonds 2,089.40
Sales:
Constitutions _....................................$ 4,537.50
Monitors ............................................ 1,202.14
Lodge receipts_.................................. 1,110.75
Blanks .................................................
532.00
Small diplomas..................................
624.21
Large diplomas ..................................
323.25
Past Masters' diplomas....................
108.40
Card cases and lists of Lodges......
53.70
Digests of Decisions........................ 1,570.00
Installation services and Proceed32.25
ings ................................................ ..
Bound volumes and funeral serv·
175.75
ices ..................................................
Masonic Law and Custom and
263.10
sundry ............................................. .
10,924.65
391.69
Uniform system of accounting......
Refunds and Reimbursements :
San Francisco Board of Relief ......$ 188.15
265.00
Los Angeles Board of Relief... .....
10.00
Bakersfield Board of Relief ......... .
Refund of Representatives' mile291.84
age ....................................................
21.60
Refund of liability insurance..........
Los Angeles Board of Relief-Repayment of advances for graves 15,200.00

15,976.59

· Total cash received direct by Grand Secretary.......... $166,925.94

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

502

PROCEEDINGS ·OF THE

Cash Received by Grand Treasurer:
Bank interest .............'. ....................................................$ 3,342.80
Bond interest ..............:................................................... 7,619.43
Dividends································-········································ 3,111.02
Bond redemptions: · ·
East Bay Water Co.........................$ 5,000.00
Great Western Power Co..........:.... 4,100.00
23,i 73.25
9,100.00
Total cash to account for ..............:.:...........:....................." -$227,304.71
.
~ash bisbursed ?WGrand· S ecretary's Warrants-.·
Salaries ........'..............................................:.....................$ 21,240.00
Printing and binding-office use.................................. 5,463.77
Printing and binding-sales........................................ 7,999.25
Contingent expense--Grand Lecturer...:.................... · 1,060.27
Office rent........................- ......................:......................... 3,900.00
P ostage ............,.................................................................
891.08 •
Appropriations ........................................................:....... 45,478.95
Telephone and telegrams..............................................
264.95
Drayage and express............................................:.........
121.48
Annual Grand Lodge week activities.......................... 3,267.46
Annual Communication.................................................. 1,019.85
Office expenses........................................:....................:....
638.82
Representatives' payroll (net $19,646.97) ................ 19,938.81
Committee-Masonic Education.................................. 4·,778.51 ·
Committee-Masonic History...................................... 3,765.94
Committee-Board of Control....................................
224.51 ··
Committee-Public School Week................................ 1,279.51
Officers' expenses ............................................................
205.68
Office furniture and fixtures........................................
55.26
Buttons- Fifty year veterans..:....:::.. :.........................
624.00
Grand Master's conference...................... -....................
50.00
George Washington National M~mririal.................... 28,146.80
Premiums on Secretary's and Treasurer's bonds.... 1,747:80

~~~ft~~;~:.~~~~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~;~:~ .

Extra salaries account Digest......................................
230.00
Relief-Order of Grand Master..................................
995.00 ·
Liability insurance..........................................................
53.29
Harmony Lodge No. 164..............................................
249.63
Miscellaneous expense....:...............................................
170.21
Cash Disbursed by Gra1id Treasurer:
Securities Purchased :
$10,000 Southern Pacific Co. bonds.................... 9,565.00
200 shares P acific Gas & Electric Co. prefer red stock .......................................................... 5,000.00
T otal disbursements............................................................ $169,307.83
Cash Balance, July 31, 1931:
Funds with Grand Treasurer..............................$ 57,496.88
Funds with Grand Secretary................................
500.00 $ 57,996.88

503

Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED J U LY 31, 1931

. Exhibit B
Per capita tax-140,606 Master Masons:
Maintenance Fund...................................,................$35,151.50
Building Fund .... :....................................................... 70,303.00 $105,454.50
Initiation tax:
. 1 initiate, fiscal year 1927................~ ...............$
20.00
1,824 initiates, fiscal year 1930............~.........·....:... 45,600.00
3,159 initiates, fiscal year 1931.............................. 78,975.00

124,595.00

T otal cash received for Masonic H omes and turned
· over to Grand T reasurer ...........:....:.::.......................... $230,049.50
Exhibit C
Emergency Relief Fund
Fund balance, August 1, 1930.................. ,....................................... $ 18,281.47
Cash R eceipts:
Bank inter~st............................................................................$558.36
Bond interest ........................................................................... 140.00
698.36
T otal to account for............................................................ $ 18,979.83
Cash Disbursements :
American National Red Cross-drought relief ..........................

. l ,00();00

Balance, July 31, 1931 :
Cash ................................................................$13,979.83
First Liberty Loan bonds............................ 4,000.00 · $ 17,979.83
Net Cash Receipts From Annual Returns
FROM A UGUST }, 1931 TO OCTOBER } , 1931
General Fund-Grand Lodge...................................................,........ $130,866.40
H ome Maintenance Fund..................................................................
34,705.00
Home Building Fund.................................................:........................
69,410.00
$25.00 Home Tax,...............................................................................
36,100.00

T otal collected which includes 4th quarter of $25.00
H ome Tax only.............................................................. $271,081.40

504

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Analysis of Annual Returns
AUGUST 1 TO OCTOBER 1
Initiations ........................................................."......................... 4,146
Passed ·······························································-······················· 4,321
Raised ··············:········································································· 4,465

Losses in Membership
Withdrawals .......................................:............................................ 1,157
Suspended, non-payment of dues .................................................. 2,602
Expelled or suspended for cause..................................................
43
Died .................................................................................................. 1,767
Loss by error in previous reports................................................
38

Total degrees conferred at $1.00 each............................ $ 12,932.00
Total Master Masons August 1, 19JL..·-···-················· 142,422
Less members whose dues remitted.................................. 2,959
Total Master Masons at 85c each............................ 139,463 $118,543.55
Total Grand Lodge dues.................................................... $131,475.55
139,463 Master Masons at 50c Home Building............................
69;731.50
139,463 Master Masons at 25c Home Maintenance....................
34,865.75
4,146 Initiations
424 Affiliations outside jurisdictions
10 Affiliations .outside jurisdictions dual members
21 Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts
4,601 Upon whom the $25 Home Tax is payable.................... $115,025.00
Overpayment on $25 Home Tax....................................

505

CHAND I,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$351,097.80
200.00

•Total due August 1 to October 1, 1931, Home Tax
and Annual Returns...................................................... $351,297.80 ·
•uncollected, $824.20.
.

Gains and Losses-Annual. Returns, 1931
Master Masons, July 31, 1930................•...............- ...................:......... 142,062
Raised during the year ending July 31.............................. 4,465
Affiliated from foreign jurisdictions..............................._, 424
Affiliated from foreign jurisdictions, dual members......
10
Affiliated froin California Lodges..................................-... 794
Restored ...........~...... . ........................................................... ..... 246
Gained by error in previous reports ...........,......................
28
Total gained ..............................................:...........................-....

5,967

Total to account for ............................:.....:............................... 148,029

Total losses ................................................................................

5,607

Total Master Masons-August 1, 1931.......................................... 142,422
Total Master Masons-August 1, 1930...........................:............~. 142,062
Net gain for the fiscal year 1931............................................
]ORN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

•

360

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

507

Exhibit D

REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER
Cash Receipts and Disbursements
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1931 ·
General Fund
. Cash balance, August 1, 1930................................:......................... $ 36,705.52
Receipts
From Grand Secretary..................................................$166,925.94
Bank interest.................................................................... 3,342.80
Bond interest ...................................... :.................. :.......... 7,619.43
Dividends .......................................................................... 3,111.02
Bond redemptions :
East Bay Water Co................................................. 5,000.00
Great Western Power Co.................................... . 4,100.00

Total receipts........................................................................ $190,099.19

•

Total cash to account for.................................................. $226,804.71
Disbursements
Grand Secretary's warrants ................. ,........................$154,742.83
Securities purchased :
$10,000 Southern Pacific Co. bonds.................... 9,565.00
200 shares Pacific Gas & Electric preferred
stock ...................................................................... 5,000.00

Total disbursements............................................................ $169,307.83
Cash balance, July 31, 1931 :
The San Francisco Bank............ ~ ........................$ 31,136.65
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co............... 1,381.55
Crocker First National Bank, book overdraft 1,246.94
Bank of America-Humboldt Branch.............. 9,290.89
Anglo California Trust Co................................... 16,934.73 $ 57,496.88

Exhibit E
Schedule of Assets
JULY 31, 1931
Cash in banks...............................................,...................................... .. $ 57,496.88
Bonds:
$ 7,000.00 Blue Lakes Water ·co....................... 6 % 1938
7,700.00
6,000.00 Southern Pacific c~ ........................... 4 % 1955
5,580.00
10,000.00 Southern Pacific Co...........................
1981
9,565.00
9,000.00 California Gas & Electric Co ..•........ 5 % 1937
8,550.00
8,000.00 Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co....................... 5 % 1937
8,000.00
2,000.00 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co ....... 5 % 1939
1,860.00
3,935.00
4,000.00 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co....... 50% 1943
5,000.00 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co ....... 6 % 1942
5,068.75
5,000.00 Southern California Edison Co ....... 5 % 1944
4,562.50
4,787.50
5,000.00 Southern California Gas Co ........... 5Yz% 1952
9,925.00
10,000.00 Philadelphia Electric Cci................... 40% 1967
9,000.00 Pacific Gas & Electric Co.. ,............ 50')'0 1952
8,946.25
5,000.00 Pacific Gas & Eletcric Co............... 5 % 1942
4,720.00
3,970.00
4,000.00 California Oregon Power Co......... 50% 1955
4,912.50
5,000.00 San Joaquin Light & Power Co..... 5 % 1957
5,000.00 Central Arizona Light & Power Co. 5 % 1960
4,812.50
10,000.00 New York Telephone Co ................... 4y,(% 1939
10,000.00
5,000.00 Mercantile American Realty Co ..... 5 % 1951
4,912.50
1,000.00 !st Liberty Loan, converted ............ 4y,(%
1,000.00
15,300.00 2nd Liberty Loan, converted ............ 4y,(%
15,300.00
30,056.25 .
30,000.00 4th Liberty Loan.................................. 4y,( %
Stocks:
5,888 shares Masonic Temple Association............................ $588,800.00
200 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co. preferred..............
5,000.00
Total assets .......................................................................... $809,460.63
WILLIAM P. FILMER, Gra1id Treasurer.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

At 1 :15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :30
p. m.

508

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1Ju ~ran~ 1Jjn~ge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 13, 1931
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
Distinguished Visitor
M.".W.".George R. Harvey, Past Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, was introduced and
received with the honors due to his rank.
Report of the Committee on Segregation
To theM.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee to which was referred the message of the Grand
Master, begs leave to report as follows:
An attentive reading of the message of the M.'.W.".Grand Master
discloses care in its treatment, and doubtless many hours of thoughtful labor in its preparation. Moreover, it discloses an industrious performance of his official duties, not merely a perfunctory performance
of those duties, or even a faithful performance thereof, but rather a
performance that entailed an added bit here, and an added bit there,
whenever in his judgment such added labor contributed in anywise to
the good of Masonry. It discloses a lively interest in the affairs of
Masonry, in his duties as the head of Masonry in California, and in
the welfare of the fraternity throughout this grand jurisdiction seldom
displayed .by one so honored by his brethren. His virility and honest,
straightforward dealing with his brethren is recognized by all who ·
have been so favored as to have known him, and has earned the respect and admiration of his brethren. His incumbency will long be
recognized as the work of a great administrator. His message is replete with recommendations, some vital to the welfare of Masonry in
our jurisdiction, and others such as will conduce to regularity in the
transaction of our affairs, and tend to smooth the way of those who
come after.
Your committee recommends that the following portions of the
Grand Master's message be referred to the following committees:
Suspension of a Master: To Jurisprudence Committee.
·George Washfogto11 Memorial: Policy and Purposes, and Finance.
Grand 1'.foster's Confere1ice: Policy and Purposes, and Finance.
Masonic History: Policy and Purposes, and Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

509

Decisions and Recommendations:
Decision 1. Jurisprudence.
Decision 2. Jurisprudence.
Decision 3. Jurisprudence.
Decision 3. Recommendation 'fa"-Policy and Purposes, and
Jurisprudence.
Decision 4. Jurisprudence.
)
Decision 5. Jurisprudence.
Decision 6. Jurisprudence.
Decision 7. Jurisprudence.
Decision 8. Jurisprudence. (Particularly as to the question
whether a Grand Master can exercise any discretion in the matter under the facts related.)
Decision 9. Jurisprudence.
Decision 10. Jurisprudence.
Decision 10. Recommendation "b"-Policy and General Purposes, and Jurisprudence.
Decision 10. Recommendation "c"-Jurisprudence.
Decision 10. Recommendation "d"-Jurisprudence.
Decision 11. Jurisprudence.
Decision 11. Recommendation "e"-Jurisprudence, and Policy
and General Purposes.
Decision 12. Jurisprudence.
Decision 12. Recommendation "£"-Policy and General Pur~
poses, and Jurisprudence.
Decision 12. Recommendation "g"-Policy and General Purposes, and Jurisprudence.
Decision 13. Jurisprudence.
Decision 14. Jurisprudence, and Policy and General Purposes.
Decision 14. Recommendation "h"-Jurisprudence, and Policy
and General Purposes.
Decision 15. Jurisprudence.
Decision 16. Jurisprudence.
Decision 17. Recommendation "i"-Policy and Purposes, and
Jurisprudence.
Decision 18. Jurisprudence.
Decision 19. Jurisprudence.
Decision 20. Jurisprudence.
Decision 20. Recommendations "j" and "k"-Policy and General Purposes, and.Jurisprudence.
Decision 21. Policy and Purposes, and Jurisprudence.
Decision 21. Recommendation "!"-Policy and General Purposes, and Finance, and Jurisprudence.
Decision 21. Recommendation "m"-Policy and Purposes, and
Jurisprudence.

510 ·,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

511

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE .

Decision 21. Recommendation "rt"-PoHcy and Purposes, Finance, and ] urisprudence.
Decision 22. ] urisprudence, and Policy :and Ge'ueral Purposes.
Decision 22. Recommendation "o"-Policy and .Purposes, and
] uri,sprudence.
Decision 22. Recommendation "p"-Policy and Purposes, and
] urisprudence.
Decision 23. ] urisprudence.
Decision 24. ] urisprudence.
Decision 25. ] urisprudence.
Decision 26. ] urisprudence.
Decision 27. ] urisprudence.
Decision 28. ] urisprudence.
Decision 28. Recommendation "q"-J urisprudence.
Decision 29. ] urisprudence.
Decision 29. Recommendation "r"-Policy and Purposes, and
] urisprudence.

Conditions that contribute to suspension: To ] urisprudence.
It will be noted that several controversies pending at the close of
our last annual communication were speedily dispatched and the
sought-for ends attained. This was to be expected from one who on
every occasion would meet an issue squarely, and whose disposition
is not to turn aside at an obstruction but rather to meet and overcome it.
Visit of the Gral_ld Master of Ar~zona: With a feeling that perhaps one of the greatest things in Masonry, if not the greatest, is that
spirit of friendship and brotherly love for which we strive, we commend the spirit in which our M.'..W.".Grand Master met and honored
our M.".·W.".brother, the Grand Master of Arizona, and we recommend to the officers of the Lodges of this jurisdiction a similar exemplification of that spirit on all occasions.
Grand Master's Conference: We commend the broad ·vision of
our M:.W:.Grand Master in outlining the benefits to be derived
from a participation in · these conferences, and much that he has said
might well be applied by our I:.odges in their dealings with one another.
Public Schools Week: The practice of setting ~side one week of
our Masonic year to ..thi$ . observance now needs no commendation.
As the Grand Master says, it "has become an institution." The fraternity is to be congratulated upon the able handling of this affair by
our Grand Lodge officers and committees, and above all the State is
to be congratulated upon the interest in its schools . thereby created.
For upon our sch·ools stands the whole bulwa.rk of our form of government.

Masonic Education: With his usual meticulous care the M:.w: ..
Grand Master traces the history, of our attempts to program a system
of Masonic Education. He quotes from the remarks of M: .w: ·
Brother Dean of Massachusetts, some experiences that seem to your
committee to merit more than ·passing consideration, and we regret
that the Grand Master saw fit.to make no recommendation upon this
branch of our endeavors of which for more than fifteen years we have
earnestly sought a solution. .
.
~
Service Committee and Conditions that contribute to suspensions
From a careful study of the subject, based upon facts and figures de
rived from reports furnished by Lodges and Inspec~ors as well as a
wide personal knowledge of the subject, the Grand Master presents
to Grand Lodge a topic well worthy of its consideration, and the material therein contained will enable Grand Lodge and the Lodg,es to
determine, if they so elect, a course which will tend to a great ' reduction in suspensions for non-payment of dues.
·
Officers Associations: The district meetings of the officers of
Lodges has also now become an institution in most Masonic districts
· of this jurisdiction. First promoted a few years ago as optional with
Inspectors and their Lodges and later insisted upon, now by the
zealous labor of our Grand Master, his helpful suggestions to the Inspectors, and his commendation of the practice of all occasions, ' these
meetings have become an intimate part of the life of each district.
That they are material to the progress .of ' Mas.onry in this State is
beyond dispute, and we commend _the efforts of the Grand Master in
fostering this very important work. The committee feel assured that
the suggestion of the Grand Master that the State be divided among
the Deputy Gra~d-Mastei and Grand Wardens and that they endeavor
to visit each district in their division during the coming year, would
meet. with the hearty approval of the several districts and would result in much good, not only to the Lodges, but also to the Grand
Lodge officers participating. Your committee recommends that the incoming Grand Lodge officers give this suggestion the attention and
careful consideration it merits.
Digest: This work of our Grand Master is monumental: Never in
the history of Masonry in this jurisdicti'on has any single act of Grand
Lodge met with such spontane·ous and hearty approbation as the pub:
lication of the Digest. He modestly gives credit to our R.".W.".Grand
Secretary for the success of the undertaking, and of course to the
Grand Secretary much credit is due, but it was conceived and accomplished by our Grand Master and too much credit cannot be given him
for it. As all first attempts are apt to be, the Digest i's lacking in some
minor details, and some decisions of our Grand Lodge, not heretofore
included therein, might well be included. Moreover, it is important

512

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that. such a work be kept up to date: We therefore recommend that
our M:.w:.Brother John Stewart Ross be requested to revise the
present Digest and complete the same to include the legislation of this
Grand Lodge and furnish to the Grand Secretary the necessary copy
for a second edition, and that a second edition be published and sold
at a price to be fixed by the Committee on Accounts.
~e have thus discussed b~iefly the salient -points in a message
covermg the year 1931 ; all · too briefly we would say were we not
cognizant of the dispatch necessary in Grand Lodge business. That
rec~rd is written. It is a marvelous record of devotion to Masonry;
to 1t our words of commendation could add nothing, but the lessons
that may be drawn from it by the members of Grand Lodge are many,
a~d to them we recommend a study of these words of a just. and upright man, and Mason, to whom, or any man, no higher commendation
can be given.

It is interesting to note that the per capita expense of conducting
the office of the Grand Secretary, notwithstanding the increased membership of the grand jurisdiction, the enlarged activities of the fraternity, and the material advance in the cost of labor and supplies,
has decreased about 25 per cent during the twenty-four years the office
has been under the supervision of our Grand Secretary.
It is also of interest to learn that not.w ithstanding the deep slashes
made in our rolls by the rigid enforcement of the suspension rule, and
the rather pressing financial situation, the membership of the fraternity shows an increase for the year. Small though it is, under the
conditions existing, it is a hopeful sign, indicating interest in and appreciation of the fraternity.
In concludng our report, we recommend that Secretaries of
Lodges be directed to forward to the ·Grand Secretary a full roster
of members as of July 31, 1931, on forms to be furnished by the Grand
Secretary. In order that these returns may be digested and incorporated in the Grand Secretary's report to the next annual communication, we recommend that such reports be required to be in the
hands of the Grand Secretary not later than January 1, 1932. This
is suggested because no roster · has been furnished since 1917 and is
quite necessary in order that annual returns may be intelligently and
accurately checked.
WM. B. OGDEN, Chairman.

Grand Secretary's Report. Your committee to which was referred
the report of the Grand Secretary begs leave to report as follows:
We congratulate Brother Whicher upon completion of his twentyfourth year as Grand Secretary, but more and greater are the congratulations to be extended to this Grand Lodge upon its privilege of
possessing so able and outstan<ling an officer in this very important
position. The ability, learning and affability of our Grand Secretary
has contributed in a large measure to the present high standing of this
jurisdiction in the ranks of Masonry.
The report is in keeping with the high order of ability of the officer and reflects the thoroughness and regularity that prevails in the
o.ffice of the Gran~ Secret.a ry. I~ presents with cla'°ity and yet succmctness, the details of his official acts and records, and is no less
commendable than were previous reports made in his official capacity
but rather, reflects that efficiency and skill that incrt:ases as · the year~
of service pass, one by one.
Your committee recommends reference of the several sections of
the report as follows:

Unpaid Grand Lodge dues: To Finance Committee.
Petition to Change Name of Lodge: To Policy and Purposes Committee.
·
Unfinished Business: To Jurispruden~e.
Trial Records: To Grievanc.es.
Life Memberships: To Jurisprudence.
Dispensations issued: To Jurisprudence.
. Amendments to By-laws: To By-laws Committee.
Report of Auditors: To Fin~nce Committee.
Cash Receipts and Disbursements: To Finance Committee. ·

513

CLARENCE L. FRASER.

Committee.

Adopted as read.

514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·
uRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNlA

ANNUAL ORATION
By LESLIE E. LF.ARNED, Grand Orator

Brethren of the Grand. Lodge:
I am deeply sensible of the responsibility devolving upon the speaker
who is commissioned by the Grand Master of any jurisdiction to deliver
the annual oration to a representative body of Free and Accepted Masons.
It is required of such an officer that he shall be well informed in the
ceremonial of the Fraternity, and also that, from a wide and thoughtful
acquaintance with mankind, he shall be able' to interpret the ancient and
profound principles of the Rite.
I do not stand here,. therefore, merely to utter in sonorous English
a succession of bombastic syllables, the sound of which shall be agreeable
to your ears, but to speak as simply as I may to my brother Masons
concerning the imponderable and eternal significance of our degrees.
Most, if not all of you, are very familiar with the phraseology and the
work of the Lodge room. Many of you have dwelt at length ~pon the
inner meaning of our ritual. But it has been given to few of those who
pass through the ascending series of our official positions until they
occupy the exalted place in the East, to pursue studies and to travel widely
in order that an adequate comprehension . of Masonic truth is in their
possession.
Indeed, no living man would dare to make that claim. Yet, I am
here to act as your spokesman and to interpret your inner emotions, your
sincere reactions and your high resolves, which in greater or less degree,
Masonry has created in· your minds and hearts.
Humbly, earnestly, faithfully, and with enthusiasm I now address
myself to this task.
It baffles the imagination to visualize the far-flung scope and history
of Free Masonry. Its ritual discovers its origin in the ancient kingdom
of Judea over three thousand years ago, and who can say how long before. Mystic symbols are discernible by the initiate in many lands and
under varied skies. When our own era dawns and those mighty movements of the new age gather momentum, history shows the active influence of our Institution in the Crusades for the recovery of the Holy
Land. It is not easy to pick up the threads of an organization which has
always treasured its secrets and maintained inviolable its high principles
of faith and conduct. But ever and again an operative Mason leaves his
mark upon the enduring granite or marble and we, of a later age, stand
in silence before the relic. Only this summer I thus stood in the Temple
Church only a few feet from the busy traffic of Fleet street in the very
heart of London and conjured up the scenes which the sculptured forms

SIE

of the Knights brought vividly to mind, their weary marches, the burning
noontides, the desert nights with the cool stars overhead, and dreams of
the clash of arms on the morrow.
If only we could gather. together the secrets of.. thos~e ?1yriads of. our
brethren in the storied past, how our hearts would thrill at the recital I
It is well to interpret this' august past to each either, meager th9ugh
our kriowledrre be. Think of what it means that each new brother who
is made a M~ster Mason, is introduced into so noble and anci~nt a h~ri-..
tage ! He is · lifted out of petty and narrow env~ronment into th~ . 1~­
ponderable antiquity of human life at its best. _He 1s no longer a ch1l~ of
the present; engaged in buy'ing and' selling; in building and transporta~1on:
He is ·maae a companion o'f the multitude · of brethren of many nations,
and he views the pageant of the long history of those who have passed
from step to step in the identical symbolism to which he ha~ just be~n
introduced. It is as if a gigantic panorama had been passed before his
eyes as blindfolded he has been' led through" the mystic wonder of the
Mas~er'~ degree and' by some most modern touch of' movietone, has hear.d
the voices of the far past sounding in his ears, ·saying, "We ·pa'Ssed this
way centuries ago, my brother: We ·have seen and you will see. Years
came · and went before we understood, but by patience and fortitude you,
too, will. grasp in part the age-long, world-wide meaning of Masonic
mysteries."
Masonry, therefore, paints a picture. On its canvas move vast n~m­
bers of men; Leaders of great movements are there. Founders of nations
loom high in the great throng, Godfrey de -Bouillon, the Crusader; Jacques de M alay, the Templar; Washington, the first figure of our beginning history. as .a nation, are a trinity of fame ~mo~g ma~y. others.
Our In,stitution· summons every Master Mason to this high privilege of
partnership with these great men. They, t~, drank deep of. the fountains . of wisdom. -in our .unchanging ceremonial. They, also, mterpreted ·
the mystic symbolism of the Rite. And they knew the august ins~iration
of words which have .meaning so profound that secrecy must wrap its c?ncealing folds ·about the mystery which runs on in the hearts of men hke
the underground rivers of California.
Listen to these words of James Russell Lowell, descriptive of Washington, whose fame, in spite of cheap and superficial critics stands secure:
"Soldier and statesman, rarest unison;
High-poised example of great duties done .
. Dumb for himself, unless it were to God,
But for his barefoot ,soldiers eloquent,
Tramping the snow to coral where they trod.
Modest yet firm as· Nature's self; unblamed
Save by the men his nobler temper shamed;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

516

517

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

N ~".er seduc~d th~ough show of present good.
R1g1d, but with ~1mself first, grasping still
In swerveless poise the wave-beat helm of will ·
Not honored then or now because he wooed
'
The popular voice.
Broad"minded, higher-souled, there is but one
. Wh? was all thi~ and ours, and all men'~-Wa~hington !"
·
It 1s logical, from this great delineator of the character of our foremost .American Mason, to pass to a brief consideration of the scope and
meaning of our Institution in this country where the majority of us had
our birth.
. Have you ever studied our own inviolable and unchanging obligations as Master Masons, in relation to the principles which underlie our
Constitution? Have you, as American citizens, ever sought to connect the
two roles which you play in public, that of a free voter, and that of a
Free and Accepted Mason? Or have you rested complacently in your
election to some Lodge in the Craft and wholly or partially treated your
duties as a citizen with scant respect? .
Alas ! How many Masons are poor citizens ! How many are ei~her
slaves of their prejudices or blind to their country's dire needs! How
many follow the perilous fires of the pursuit of wealth or the gratification of their lowest appetites with no thought of the enormous evil
which accrues to the country they profess to love !
Every member of the Lodge, to say nothing of those who have taken
the higher degrees, cannot thus neglect his duty to the nation without
violating certain deep and fundamental responsibilities to this great Institution which is here assembled in Grand Lodge.
.F or Masonry stands today as it always. stood, for freedom for the .
possibility of the greatest good and the highest place for e;ery man
despite any conditions of birth, occupation, or fortune. Masonry is the
bulwark of true democracy. Note, my brethren, certain familiar facts
too often left out of consideration when one rejoices in his Masonic
fellowship. First, that there is no caste in a Masonic Lodge. The chairs
are not reserved for the rich or for the highly educated, or for the
lawyer, doctor or clergyman. The poorest Mason may hold and often
does hold the highest position the Lodge offers in the sacred East, but
none has a monopoly of the opportunity.
But why use up our time by reiterating such a commonplace fact in
the life and experience of a Mason? Because, my brethren, only a few,
and those who are widely read in the long and devious history of mankind, realize the incessant struggle mankind has waged to reach such a
happy principle, and how equally difficult it is to maintain this principle
which lies at the very foundation of democratic institutions.

Corruption stalks openly abroad in our cities at the expense of honest
merchants and innocent babies' lives. There is no great city which can
hold its head erect as a guarantor of .the inalienable rights of a man to
run his business as he pleases without tribute. Such a condition is not
freedom. It is slavery of the deepest dye and it should bring the blush of
shame to the cheek of every Mason, that such conditions are permitted
to continue. Imagine, my brothers, a secret organization within the
Grand Lodge, which permitted no man to occupy the position of Worshipful Master, without an enforced tribute to this cabal of hidden
Masonic robbers and thieves I Why ! The thought is absurd. Masonry
would not last a decade under such conditions. What sane man, of his
own free will and accord, would become a member of such a corrupt
order?
Why, then, do we find it in our political life? Because millions of
Masonic brethren throughout our land are indifferent and apathetic, or
worst of all, absentees at the polls.
I realize that Masonry, as such, must never organize for political
results. Th_ere must never be in any nation, a Masonic political party.
That, too, is written large in the tenets of our Free Masonry. But that is
not to say that we must carry our Masonry in our hearts and our citizenship in the tough soles of our feet.
The undying flame of the light which every brother has seen, as he
emerges from darkness, symbolizes liberty, freedom, equality of opportunity ·for every man, always and everywhere. Masonry can never tolerate a dictator who rides rough-shod over popular rights. Masonry can
never permit an oligarchy of the favored classes to decide the doctrines
of a nation. Masonry operates, as Almighty God operates, through the
wills of men, inoculated with its enduring principles, and we must see
to it that increasingly the vast impact of our purposes and ideals shall
destroy the corruption and debasement of our American cities and institutions. Quietly but powerfully, we must work and vote for men who
will be strong for the right and yet never seekers for their own autocratic place and power.
The work of the Lodge is not therefore, a vain repetition of timehonored syllables. A Mason is supposed to conceal within the secret
places of his mind a considerable number of words and phrases. But
our Fraternity will cease to attract men of the calibre we desire, unless
the mystic symbols are deeply interpreted and adequately applied to the
morals and government of the land in which we live. Patriotism is more
than proud self-congratulation that America is a country of broad rivers
and fertile and lofty mountains. No country ever has, or ever can maintain its vitality by enjoying its scenery. The foundation stone of Masonry
is mystic brotherhood and its degrees insist in unequivocal and emphatic
terms, that such fraternal obligations are concerned, not merely with the
craft, but with the whole human race.

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This is not a seTmon, rny brethren, but a plain talk in- blunt language
about Masonic obligations which shall send Master Masons out to ·the
busy marts of trade imbued with moral enthusiasm. We shall coine, in
a moment, to the two highest revelations to men, who travel ever toward
the truth of the sunrise. I am reserving them for the final paragraphs
of this oration. Just now I am concerned with the reputation of men
who call themselves Masons, with their reputation among those with
whom they are associated in the home, in the mill, in our great buildings,
and in their hours of leisure by night and in the day: ·
Does your wife look upon ·you· as a man who exemplifies .truth and
loyalty for her, whom you have pledged yourself to love and to cherish
until death do us part? Does your family discover in you strength and
honor and patience and tenderness the morning after you have been to
.Lodge. Is there no suspicion of your untrustworthiness in the minds of
your business acquaintances? Is your word as good as your bond? Have
you ever made money, knowing that another man or woman would surely
,los.e in .the transaction?
These are the questions for us to face today, and they are all con-Cerrie'd with homes and with our country. Politics too often degenerate
into . not too honorable methods to keep a given party in power, but a
country prospers only when good and true men are at the helm to insure
common honesty and sweet purity and so, enduring safety to the little
children, their · mothers- and their fathers.
If you and I have travelled Masonic ways and on our knees have
taken its solemn oaths without making a stern resolution thus to fulfill in
public what has be~n secretly conferre.d upon us, then we have miserably
failed to reach the lofty goal of Masonic purpose.
It is not an idle act to remember the great word which calls each and
every one here present a Free Mason. It is just that rich possession . for
humanity which Masonry strives to keep in our hands. Whatever comes,
we will not be enslaved by despot or tyrant. We will exercise the heavenborn rights of freemen at the polls. We will not suffer our liberties _to be
stolen from us by specious promises of ease or money .. We will suffer
hardship in freedom's name. We will never lower the standard of our
- integrity. On our banners will be emblazoned right, truth, justice, until
Free Masons shall by their heroic struggle make this earth a dwelling
place .for free men everywhere.
Listen to a California poet: .
"No, not as in that elder day
Comes now the Master on the human way.
He comes with power: His wh_ite unfearing face
Shines through the Social Passion of the race.
He comes to frame the freedom of the Law,
To touch these men of Earth
_ With a feeling of life's oneness and its worth, .

519

A fe-eling of its mystery and awe.
He comes -to make the long injustice rightComes to push back the shadow of the night,
The gray Tradition full of flint and flawComes to wipe out the insults to the soul,
The insults of the Few against the Whole,
The insults they make righteous with a law.
Yea, He will bear the Safety of the State,
Yea, He will lay on souls the power of peace,
And send on kingdoms torn the sense of HomeMore than the fire of Joy that burned on Greece,
More than the light of Law that rose on Rome."
From "The Desire of Nations" by Edwin Markham.

And now, my Brethren, a little time remains for me to bring your
minds and emotions face to face with the two holy articles of our Masonic
faith.
The laynian is modest in giving expression to his feelings on the
themes I am now about to discuss. He feels that they are too high for
him to describe, and he contents himself with a brief allusion. But the
profession of your Grand Orator makes him more courageous, and perhaps fits him to speak simply, but emphatically, about Masonry and
religion.
Let me repeat what I have often said before to many Masons, that
an enduring bulwark against skepticism and the moral anarchy which
invariably-goes along with atheism, is found in Masonry.
No skeptic has a right to be a Mason. He perjures himself if he takes
our vo~s, while scoffing in his heart at Almighty God. Here, the Lodge
goes hand in hand with the church and synagogue and mosque. In unmistakable terms it confesses a faith in God, which is symbolized by the
shining letter in the East, emblematic of the eternal Being Who sits upon
the circle of the heavens and takes up the islands of the sea as very
little things.
It is well that Masonry does not indulge in long-winded and sanctimonious cant. It treats religion with dignity and reserve, but always
insists upon its foremost place in the unchanging 'principles of the Rite.
These· easy 'purveyors ' of· doubt, who write so brilliantly about the decay
of religion, do not know what is taught behind the tiled doors of .Masonry.
Those new rulers in Russia are convinced that they can build a lasting
republic upon five year plans and the embalmed body of a successful
revolutionist. · But neither do they know that perse~ution through the
long centuries has not availed to crush out the deep faith of Masons.
Nor is it like the religion of the ~ncient Ro~an Empire, a sop thrown
to the ordinary man while the chosen few discard it. The higher you
go in Masonry, the more light shines upon our faith in the Almighty
Being Who has created the universe and maintains it by His Divine
Power.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Yet it is all to be found around a lonely grave under the green acacia,
where the climax of all the lectures and obligations is reached by the one
who impersonates the ancient Master. I make no disclosure of our secrets;
I only remind you, who are qualified to understand the reference, that
when all human power failed, the appeal is made to the Almighty and
the prayer is answered. Many of us have received the higher degrees
and seen noble ceremonials, b~t they all hark back to that spot, sacred
to every Mason, where prayer to God is made and that petition is fulfilled.

In my own heart I am wondering how you are following the words
your spokesman has been uttering. Perhaps some of you have thought
that Masonry has been made too idealistic and that it would have been
saner to' build Masonry frankly upon human fellowship and claim no
more for it than the most thoughtless find within the Lodge, merely calling attention to the distinguished men of all nations, who have been proud
to call themselves Master Masons. Perhaps others have made charitable ·
allowance for the tenor of my thoughts by saying that he cannot avoid
a preachment, seeing he is himself a preacher.
My brothers, we have been blind and deaf, if we have failed to
perceive the profound teaching embodied in the ceremonial of the Lodge.
Surely it is true that the higher degrees throw a bright light on the first
three. But I have not assumed that all of you have had that privilege.
Purposely I have confined myself to the deep significance of the original
degrees.
Again I quote from the great Masonic teacher:
"Masonry teaches that God is good and merciful and loves and
~ympathizes with the creatures He has made; that His' finger is visible
m all the movements of the moral, intellectual and material universe·
that we are His children, the objects of His p~ternal care and regard;
that all me!! are.• ~rothers, whose wan.ts .w!! a.re to supply, their errors to
par~on,. their opm1ons to to.lerate, .their miunes to forgive; that man has
an immortal soul, a free will, a right to freedom of thought and action·
that all men are equal ii;i God's sight; that we ~est serve God by humility'.
meekness, gentleness. kmdness and the other virtues which the lowly can
practice as well as the lofty; this is 'the new Law ' the 'Word ' for which
the world has waited and pined so long."
'
'
One great interpretation I have left for the closing words of this
oration. Most of us bear our initiate's part in the tragic events of the
Master's degree without perceiving the full meaning of our being raised
to that exalted degree. We are keenly alive to our prostrate form and
to the simple but majestic words by which we are made to assume the
normal posture of a man. But we do not delve below the obvious significance of those acts and words which describe an event of the most ancient
Masonic history, but which really embody a profound article of faith
in the imperishable soul of every man.
Along with the belief in God, Masons must carry from that lonely
grave out from which by a mysterious grip we are raised, a confidence
sure and certain in another life beyond and above the present. If modernism should laugh to scorn such a belief, as a few of its apostles have
and do, if the cold conclusions of science leave man to the cold oblivion
of the tomb, Masonry will still keep alive in the hearts of men a faith
in the immortal existence of the soul.
The Mason is not indifferent to the fate of the soul after its present
life, as to its continued and eternal being, and the chara~ter of the scenes
in which that being will be fully developed. These are to him topics of

520

The modern movements of thought are slowly demolishing the materialism which has been a popular doctrine among many scientists during
the last century, and the trend of opinion is toward the ancient faith in
a Supreme Being to which synagogue and mosque and church have clung
and to the 'essential elements of which the principles of Free Masonry
have always been loyal.
I have said on many occasions to my Masonic Brethren that the
world can never lose its religion while Masonry lasts. Enshrined in our
ceremonial there is a Holy Book and an Almighty God. Centuries come
and go, history plays upon the stupendous keys of the world instrument,
nations rise and fall, races vanish or are absorbed by the stronger,
civilization alters the methods and appearances of life, but Masonry does
not change. It is the most conservative force in the world. It is international. It is inter-racial. It is inter-religious. Mohammedan and Jew
and Christian can be and are believers together in the one God, Who has
been described in the classic commentary on Free Masonry.
Listen to these words written decades ago by the facile pen of
Albert Pike :
"Masonry teaches that God is a Paternal Being, and has an interest
in His creatures, such as is expressed in the title 'Father'; an interest
unknown to all the systems of Paganism, untaught in all the theories of
philosophy; an interest not only in the glorious beings of other spheres,
the Sons of Light, the dwellers in Heavenly worlds, but in us, poor,
ignorant, and unworthy; that He has pity for the erring, pardon for the
guilty, love for the pure, knowledge for the humble, and promises of
immortal life for those who trust in and obey Him.
"Without a belief in Him, life is miserable, the world is dark, the
Universe disrobed of its splendors, the intellectual tie to nature broken,
the charm of existence dissolved, the great hope of being lost; and the
mind, like a star struck from its sphere, wanders through the infinite
desert of its conceptions, without attraction, tendency, destiny, or end.
"Masonry teaches that, of all the events and actions that take place
in the universe of worlds and the eternal succession of ages, there is not
one, even the minutest, which God did not forever foresee, with all the
distinctness of immediate vision, combining all, so that man's free will
should be His instrument, like all the other forces of nature."

521

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

522

523

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the profoundest interest, and th~ mo~t ennobling and refinfog cont.e!Dplation. They occupy muc~ .of his - l~1su.re; and. as he becom~s fa~1har
with the sorrows and calam1t1es of this hfe, -as his ho.pes are d1sa~pomt~d
and his visions of happiness here fade away; wh~n hfe ~as wearied him_
in its race of hours · when he is harassed and toil-worn, and the burden
of his - years ·weighs' heavy on him, the balance of attraction gradu.ally'
inclines in favor of another life ; and he clings to his lofty speculations
with a tenacity of interest which nee<!s no i!1j}lnction, and will. l_isten to
no prohibition. They are the· consolmg privilege of the aspmng, the
wayworn, the weary,· and the bereaved.
-To him the contemplation of the Future lets in light upon the Present,
and develops the higher portions of his nature. He endeavo~s ri.ghtly to
adjust the respective claims of Heaven .and earth upon his t11:!1e and
thought, so as t<! give the pr<;>per proport1ol!s thereof to performmg ~he.
duties and entermg into the mterests of this world, and to preparation
for a better.-M orals and Dogma.
There is an altar in every Masonic Lodge room, no less than in
lofty cathedrals. On that altar is always to be found the Holy Volume
which contains our faith. Undeviatingly, from century to century, we
promulgate our ancient truth. New fashions of speech and thought come
and go . . New inventions are created and fascinate by alluring sound and
motion the sensitive minds and imaginations. New theories of the univer!!e
are formulated and, 'in their turn, are succeeded by still newer scientific
conclusions. But Masonry knows the unchanging content of hu·m an nature:
Our ritual has eliminated the unnecessary and the non-esset)tial. It builds
its house on the solid rock of human hope and human need.
It is in· close touch With human experience, that great mass of sorrow
~~d joy, of success and failure, of struggle and defeat. It sings· the hymn
of "human history ·and links together differing climes and peoples under
the inclusive harmony of its fraternity and fellowship. ·
·It kn~ws too much to be merely hum~n, for"it is .convinced th.a t only
an Infinite Mind could make so delicate an organ as the human intellect..
it sees too far to be content with the narrow bounds of· this visible
earthly life, and commands us to lift our eyes to a house eternal in the
heavens.
· So it makes us free. So we are accepted by the great God on high as
the ancient w,ords gain ever greater power over our every thought and deed.

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California: .
I herewith submit to the Grand Lodge my twenty-fourth annual
report of my stewardship as Grand Lecturer. I have at ;i.11 times to
the best of my ·ability endeavored to merit your confidence. Masonry,
as well as everything else,- is feeling the depression that now exists,
yet the fraternity has made a substantial gain. ·Many of the newer
Lodges have felt the slowing. up of petitions, some of them having a
hard time to exist. This, however, is somewhat compensated by the
fact that more time is had fo r other activities.
The Officers' Associations that have been formed in the different
Inspectorial districts have proven to be successes. The officers are
getting much out of the meetings. T hese were formed at the suggestion of the Grand Master. ·
I have-visited every dist_rict in · the jurisdiction. I find the Lodges
generally in good condition financially, most of them doing a little
work, and all striving to perfect themselves in the ritual. I notice
a marked improvement in this respect, which is very gratifying.
I have accompanied the Most Worshipful Grand Master on many
of his visits. The messages which he left with the brethren were both
instructive and beneficial. I believe all the brethren get a great deal
out of his explanations and comments on the condition of the fraternity. He has covered the entire jurisdiction in these visits. Th~
visitation of Lodges is most highly commended. I believe much good
is accomplished by such visits. The Lodge that is visiting, if they
are to confer a degree, should go over the work carefully and endeavor to put it on in as perfect a manner as is -possible. The ritual
is a compact and carefully worded fab ric ; there is little in it that is
redundant and without significance. It is all purposeful and definite.
I have at all times been anxious and willing to assist and instruct
the officers and brethren in the ritual. Many have availed themselves
of this opportunity in my office and at various other places, or whenever o r wherever they happened to contact me.
I suggest that section 115 of the Constitution be amended so
that a Lodge can only confer three firsts, three seconds and one third
on a candidate at one time and in one day. This will give the Lodges
more time for educational and social purposes and will not tire the
officers or the members in hearing the repetition of the degrees.
This will, I believe, greatly increase the attendance. The brethren
will not remain in Lodge and witness four or five degrees conferred
in one evening. You cannot blame them.

524

GRAND LODG~ OF CALI~ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Many of the newer and smaller Lodges are having a hard time
to exist, many of them doing very little or no work, some of them
not having had a candidate for a year or more. It would be far
better for some of these Lodges to consolidate. Their burden of
expense goes along the same when they have no candidates as when
they are plentiful.
.
I have received rep~rts from all the Inspectors. They report the
Lodges in their respective districts to be in good co~dition with but
few exceptions, this being largely due to lack of candidates.
.
I desire to thank the V. W. Grand Secretary and his assistant,
Brother Hobbs, for many courtesies extended to me in his office
during the year just closed.
.
The Inspectors of San Francisco will confer the first degree. on
Thursday evening, October 15th, at 7 :30 P . M., under the ausp1c~s
of Presidio Lodge No. 354 ·of this city. Justice Lodge No. 549 will
furnish the candidate.
Thanking the Grand Lodge for the honor ·conferred upon me
during the years that I have been Grand Lecturer, which I have at
all times endeavored to appreciate.
THOMAS JOHN BAKER,

Grand Lecturer.

Referred to Lloyd E. Wilson, Dwight M. Ste9henson
and Archibald J. Cloud.

525

REPORT OF TRUSTEES MASONIC HOMES
To the M.' . w: . Grand Lodge of California:
Y c;mr Board of frustees of the Masonic Homes of California
herewith submits for your consideration its annual report for the
fiscal year ended July 31, 1931, together with a roster of residents to
Aqgust 31, and a statement of r~venues received since the close of
the fiscal year, to September 30.
Immediately after the close of Grand Lodge, October 17, 1930,
the Trustees met as required by the Constitution and organized as
follows :
President, Charles M. Wollenberg, term expires 1934;
Vice-President, James B. Gist, Junior Grand Warden;
Chas. Albert Adams, term to October, 1933;
Samuel E. Burke, term to October, 1932;
Dana R. Weller, term to Octol;>er, 1931;
Robert B. Gaylord, Deputy Grand Master;
Frank W. Mixter, Senior Grand Warden;
Treasurer ex-officio, William P. Filmer;
Secretary ex-officio, John W hicher.
In addition to the annual meeting the Board met at Los Angeles
and Covina in November, 1930 and at San Francisco and Decoto in
April, 1931. ·Weekly meetings, as usual, for the transaction of routine
business, were held at Los Angeles and San Francisco, local members
attending.
The past year has been one of severe trial, not only to the Lodges
of the jurisdiction, but as ·well to the members of your Board of
Trustees and
executive officers of the Homes. The depression in
business, the increasing numbers of men and women out of gainful
employment, the decreased number of accessions to the meinbership
of our Lodges, the remission of dues of nearly three thousand
member~, the unusual calls for relief, have affected the Homes as well
as the Lodges. Thi~ general stagnation is undoubtedly reflected in a
condition of pessimism, mental and spiritual. Bu·t other years now
gone have shown even darker days, more trying times, more stringency in business, more lowering of the ·morale which should actuate
thinking, courageous men and Masons-and we have lat er enjoyed
the prosperity that followed the fru its of th.- fortitude, t he prudence
and the resourcefulness of our forebears. We may well take heart
from the history of past years of depression, of past years ,of happy
recovery, and hold fast to the faith that the sun of better days will

all

526

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

surely shine upon us. "Be ye strong, therefore, and let not your hands
be weak; for your 'work shall be rewarded."
The Covina Home
At the annual communication of Grand Lodge in 1929, you
approved of our policy of restricting admissions of childr~n to the
Home to those for whom private homes could not be provided. We
said to you then, and repeat it now, that "The welfare. of the child
should be the first consideration of the Lodge. No child should be
sent to the Home until every effort has failed to find a place in a
private home. The Trustees w:II co-operate with Lodges in ende~v­
oring to maintain the relationship and contact of parent or guardian
and child, even to the extent .of a reasonable allowance from the funds
of the Homes."
In accordance with this policy, the number of children maintained in the Home at Covina has been steadily decreased until on
August 31, 1931, there are only 152 b?ys and girls d?mi~iled there, as
against 177 last year. Fifty-seven children were ~amtamed ~ast ye~r
outside and this year the Homes ;tre caring for sixty-one children m
private homes, at an expense of $1,275.00 a month.
It will be noted by reference to the Secretary's report, attached
hereto that the per capita cost of maintaining the children is considerably' in excess of the per capita cost of caring for the old people,
residents of the Decoto Home: To those of you who have had practical and personal experience in the management and maintenance of
children, · this will be understandable. To others it may appear that
the cost of conducting the Home for children is beyond a reasonable
expense. But we who are intrusted with the management of the
business of the Homes earnestly assure you that your Trustees have
always kept in mind that responsibility, have constantly urged the
strictest economy, and are pleased to report that our efforts have
met with a sympathetic and intelligent response on the part of the
Superintendents. The proper demands for the care and education of
the children are necessarily greater than for the care of those who
are far advanced in life as are the residents at the Decato Home,
who do not require house mothers, nor teachers, neither do they wear
out their shoes and clothing as do the little folk. Every effort has
been made to conserve the funds of the Homes, and we have succeeded in reducing the per capita cost to $46.71 a month for each
child, · as against $49.18 last year. Each child is fairly ent.itle~ .to
intelligent, conscientious supervision and care, and to acc~mphsh this,
funds must be provided. We are sure that no Mason will begrudge
the expense necessary to so conduct the Ho~e ~hat its ~adua!es
may go out from the sheltering care of that institution and pomt with
pride to its fostering influence.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

527

We refer you to the report of Brother Downen, Superintendent
of the Covina Home, attached hereto, who succintly sets forth the
problems daily confronting him and his associates in the management
of our large group of children-problems worthy of at tempted solution which would tax the ingenuity and intelligence of the wisest
of men.
The Decato Home
The life and activities of the Decoto Home are detailed in the
report of Superintendent Hartman. There we have no problems
incident to child life. The lives of the children are in the future and
proper mental expansion, correct habits, the making so far as po~sible
of self-sustaining, independent, respectable members of society, are
the paramount endeavors· of those who have charge of the growing
boys and girls. At Decoto are domiciled men and women whose•race .
is run, whose habits are fixed, who need only food, and clothing, and
medical attention, and sufficient diversion and light labor to make
and keep them contented, even happy. A few of these aged residents
are not happy-they are of that unfortunate type who never knew or
have forgotten the pleasure of trying to make their fellows happy,
who demand undue attention; and in some instances some of these
few believe they could conduct the Home better than. the management. The major number of these aged wards, however, tomport
themselves· as becomes kindly-disposed men and women, and they
have naught but words of cordial commendation and are contented,
thankful for the haven provided for them by their brethren of our
great Fraternity.
Forty-seven men (average age 69.76) and twenty-two women
(average age 70.54) have been admitted since our last report. Nine
have departed, and 34 have died; average age 77.79 years. Number
of residents August 31, 326.
Concerning Revenues
We cannot too strongly emphasize the fact that except as endowment is increased through testamentary and other gifts, the sole
source of revenue for the Homes is the Lodges of California. Present
current revenues are insufficient to maintain the expenses of the
Homes, and care for the building program. Grand Lodge cannot
maintain the present standard at the Homes without additional funds·
the substantial source for the funds necessarily must be either a~
increased per capita, or participation by the Lodges in some other
form in the maintenance of the Homes. The majority of our Lodges
are conservative in the admission of candidates, and in the presentation of applicants for admission to the Homes. Some Lodges, however, must be reminded that every applicant admitted to the Homes
means an additional burden, not only upon the Lodges of California

528

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

at large, but proportionately upon the Lodge itself; that every candidate for admission to the Lodge, whether by affiliation or initiation,
whose advanced years, or other causes, may possibly make him or his
family a charge upon the Fraternity, should be most carefully considered, lest our already too great burde.n be still further increased;
that no application for admission of either adults or children to the
Homes should be presented except under circumstances where the
Lodge itself would feel obligated to bear the expense. of support if
the Homes were not in existence; that the Homes are merely an
agency for the expenditure of Lodge funds, and that in effect, and in
the general average, each time an applicant is admitted at the request
of a Lodge, the Homes as an agency of that Lodge are expending for
that Lodge the amount represented by the maintenance of the applicant. While we do not at this time recommend increased per capita
.o r other legislation for the direct increase of income, we believe the
problem must be solved in the near future, and that it deserves serious
consideration by every Loi;lge.
Endowment Fund
Donations to the Endowment Fund in the year amounted to
$52,147.95, nea,rly all from bequests of deceased friends of the Homes.
The largest gift to this fund came from the estate of the late Christine
Breon, a woman who left a legacy of good deeds to many friends and
charities. The total amount of her bequest has not yet been delivered,
but so far the Fund has received the tidy sum in stocks and money
amounting to $45,374.82. The detail of receipts for the benefit of this
Fund will be reported by the Committee on Endowment. The gross
amount in the Fund is now $694,852.58.
Luckenbach Bequest
By the last will and testament of Lena Luckenbach, deceased,
the Grand . Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California, was
bequeathed the sum of $60,000, to be known as the "John and Lena
Luckenbach Fund," requesting "that the principal there'o f shall never
be expended by the legatee, but that the interest shall be used for
the care of orphans or the aged in the Masonic Homes conducted by
said Grand Lodge." The estate was largely in real estate, but partial
distribution has been made, and the sum of $26,361.36---$24,000 of it
account principal-has been received from the executors.
George F. and Laura E. Brigham Bequest
Mrs. Laura E. Brigham, a resident of Pasadena, who died September 12, 1929, provided in her last will the following bequest:

529

~

"In ;ec~g~ition of the devotion of my beloved deceased husband
e?rge . . r1gham, to the doctrines of Freemasonry and es e . • 11 '
a~ its teachings apply to the higher mental and physi~al devel~p~:;;
o young men, I hereby will, devise and bequeath to th M
.
Homes of Califor ·
.
e
asomc
.
ma, a corporat10n, the sum of fifty thousand dolla
rs,
m trust however for the following charitable purposes.
. "l. Said trust fund shall at all times be known as ~he G
Brig.~am and Laura E. Brigham Scholarship Fund.
eorge .F.
~· Said t~ustee may use all of the net income from said tr
fund rn defraymg all necessary costs and expenses of such
ust
as may be selected as being worthy and need . from
a num?er
school graduates of the Masonic Home at
~monh~ hthe high
cational purpos·es."
'
vma, or 1g er edu-

lo .

.
On the settlement of the estate of Mrs B . h
.
nece
f
h
·
· rig am it was found
ssary or t e executors to scale the variou b
total a
t f
h
. .
s equests, and the
moun o cas and securities received by th H
to forty thousan~ dollars, the income from whic: is od~~~t:~~u.ntthed
purposes named 1n the will.
o e
George F. Brigham was an honored member ()f Corona
Lodge
No. 324, at Pasadena. He died November 28, 1918.

Donations-Scholarship Fund
Frank G: Watson...............................,.......................
$
105.00
M.arguerite Sheppard ...........:,..................
..-.,-..................,.. ,.
Estate · of Christian Specht.
...............................................
100.00
Alhambra Lodge No. 322 ....................:........................ ,.......................
500.00
La Brea Lodge No. 650 ..............................................................,..:.......
35.00
Estate Laura Brigham ......................................'....................................
14.00
Taft Lodge . No. 516 .............................. ,..,.................. ,....................,.. 40,000.00
Grand Chapter o. E.'···5--..........................................................................
50.00
San Francisco · Lodge 0 {""i;;;·f~~~l···~--...................................................
600.00
0
Masonic Temple Stock
....................................................
750.00
Win.i fred Viriio.............. ::::·· ..................................................................... ~
5.00
.
.. ...............................,......................................
102.50
Scholarships-Participants
Margaret Schulte, Hermann No. 127
Elsie Schulte, Hermann No. 127
..................................................
Helen Boynton, Libert No. 299 ......................................................... :
Euni~e Merrill, Highl:nd Park N~~
Alida Knudsen, Pacific No. 136
........................ '......................
Doris Fischer, Board of Relief:: ............................;............. '...........,•...•

300.00
300.00
600.00
500.00
300.00
··~······•••t•·····~- ............. ,........ ,..• ~~-!···"'~- '
240.00

..382..............................................

.

530

· · PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sidney Schwartz, West Gate No. 335.........·-····························'·······
Ruth Clapp, San Pasqual No. 452......................•......................,..........
Elizabeth Clapp, San Pasqual No. 452....·-················-··············-·····
Douglas . Fischer, Board of Relief.. ............................ ,.........................
John Chapin, Redwood City No. U>B....................................... _...........
Ada Tappendorff, East Belt No. 391.. ....- ............................................
Sam Pressey, Sincerity No. 132........ ,.................................................

400.00
500.00
500.00
300.00
300.00
400.00
500.00

531

of the work and scope of the institution. The Trustees will welcome
any constructive criticism of their management.
C. M . WOLLENBERG, Presidmt;·
]AMES B. GrsT, Vice-President,·
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
.
SAMUELE. BURKE,
DANA R. WELLER,

Finances
The demands o£° Lodges for admissions to the Homes, particu;
larly in behalf of the aged, has been aug~ented·~~~:el~f b~~a::;e o~d
the general business depression and th_e 1mpos~1 I ItY the membermen. to secure emp 1oymen t · The slump m .accessions o H
The
ship of Lodges has materially reduced th.e mc?m~ of t.he . omes.
following comparative table shows clearly this s1tuat1on.
1921
1926
1931
Membership, all Lodges...................... 85,181
122,412
142,422
Fees from initiates ..................................$2 ll,600.00 $lB6,:·~~ $124,595.00
28• ·
35,151.50
25c per capita tax.................................... 2l,l35.5o
69
26
35
No O f residents admitted-Decoto....
228
326
No.. of residents at Decoto.................... 112 146
988.14 195,725.06
Expense-both Homes··························
'647 73
25,503.62 211 ,968.00
22,535.25
Homes direct revenue............................ 19 ' ·
The increased members h.Ip 0 f ·th e Lodges ' from year
"t to
tax year,
but
'
.
h
from the 25 cent per cap1 a
h s ver materially decreased the
increases but little t e re~e?~e
y
ffi · nt to
the decreased number of mitlates a
0
r
present
su erection
c1e
revenue from that source.
u
fi .revenues ared not
by the
and pay the de c1ency cause
. h H
maintam t e omes
. .
D
t the building of which was
of the large group of bmldmgs at d eco ~~ effort to reduce all costs
necess_ary. The Trust~es ':i~le c~:ti:u:v~o watch all possible sources
. . oint below which they cannot go
of mamtenance, a.nd t ey
for furt?er ~eduction, but there ~s ;dpof living conditions for the wards
and mamtam a respectable stan .a .
o even suggest that the taxes
of the Fraterni~..we ared u~:~ll;::p:ctfully recommend that a part
on the Lodges e mcrease '
funds of Grand Lodge be
of the considerable surplus in the geneh~a 1
are confident that
h M
i Homes In t is way we
allocated to t e ason .c
.h
t of maintenance the coming
the normal revenues will cover t e cos
.
H
year.,
.
n o ortunity to visit the Decoto . ome
given
and
many
of ayou php
t ere h a d the privilege of seeing
.
. you
d wered all
yester ay,
.
talking
withanthe residents,
an d can thus form an intelligent Judgment

ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
FRANK

w. MIXTER,

Trustees.
Report of Auditors
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California:
Following your instructions, we have completed an audit of the books
and records of the Masonic Homes of California for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1931, and present herewith the following statements:
Statements of Accountability for Funds and Properties
Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements (2 pages).
Exhibit B: Balance sheet, July 31, 1931 (2 pages).
Schedule B-1 : Summarized statement of Entertainment Fund.
Schedule B-2 : Summarized statement of Scholarship Fund.
Schedule B-3: List of securities-Special Rule No. 16, Securities
Deposited.
Schedule B-4: Composition of special fund accounts.
Exhibit C: Statement of net worth.
Statements of Operation (Statistical)
Exhibit D : Summarized statement of revenue and expenses.
Schedule D-1: Distribution of operating expenses in detail (2 pages).
Schedule D-2 : Statement of per capita costs.
Commetits
Construction of the new administration building at Decoto was completed in September of 1930 and the total cost amounted to $303,234.19, as
evidenced by the various construction contracts including architect's fees . .
All contracts were properly paid in full.
We have written off against the capital account (Exhibit C) certain
items of the fixed properties accounts, in amount $9,414.22. The5e accounts
were of doubtful origin and value.
· No accrued interest has been taken into account in the attached balance sheet.
An examination of the life insurance policies on the lives of H. J.
Clossen and Emil Cohn reveals that the cash surrender value of the former
is $202.00 and the latter $673.48. These policies are carried at full face
value of $3,000.00 in the Special Rule No. 16, Securities Account.

532

We certify that the attached statements, with exception as to the
stated value of the securities on hand and the actual values of the fixed
properies at Decoto and Covina, set. forth the condition of the Masonic
Homes of Californi~ at July 31, 1~31, and that a proper accounting has
been made of all receipts and disbursements.
RucxsTEi:,L & L>,ND, Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

. Secretary's Report
Exhibit A
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FlSCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1931
General Fund
$ 6,333.91
Cash balance in banks .........•........ ~ -· · · ······ ············· ·······'"
1,000.00
Petty cash, Covina and Decoto................................... .
Receipts
Home Maintenance Tax-Annual returns ................$ 35,151.50
Home Maintenance Tax_.:Prior year........................
26.50
Home Building Tax-Annual returns........................ 70,303.00
$25.00 Home Tax......~ ....::........... :................,.................. 124,595.00
Maintenance Subordinate Lodges-Decoto.............. 1,200.00
Maintenance Subordinate Lodges-Covina.............: 3,952.00
Endowment Fund interest.............. :.: ..............:............ 26,879.84
Interest ..............................................................................
781.47
Farm produce sales-Decoto........................................ 1,024.71
Farm produce sales-Covina.....................:.................. 2,319.74
Farm rent-Decoto ······-············.. ·····························•····
508.19
Salvage and m.iscellaneous............................................
21.50
Refunds and reimbursements:
Funeral expense ..................................$2,792.07
Cancellation of checks........................
28.44
Insurance .............................................. 133.61
Outside care of children-Covina.... 275.20
Outside tdief .•...................,..............,.... 215.16
Merchandise purchases-Covina.. - .. 4,173.19 ·
Maintenance-Decoto ........................ 236.93
7,854.60
13,502.94
Special Rule No. 16,,...,~·····~·····························~············ 7,607.00
Entertainment Fund- ·-··············································•····· 4,066.01
Students' Loan Fund...·-············-·································· 4,000.00
Securities sold-Students' Loan Fund ....................... .
Scholarship Fund ............................................................ 10,000.00
Loans from Endowment Fund-Masonic Homes
at s~ .....:........................:.......:.................................... 45,000.00
Total receipts., ..........................................................
Total to account for ..- ............................................

533

GRAND LODGE OF C:A.LIFOJlNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disbursements
Maintenance--Decoto
Maintenance c · .......'.························•·'····-··········$101,308.50
ovma.
General and -other
ex~~-~~~-:········································· 101,562.71

23,481.00
Outside ·relief
Outside care of - ~hjj;j;~~:::: :::·· ·· ····· ··· ······ ··········· ···· 4,044.34
Special Rule No. 16 interes~····················-····-··'·
432.00 .
Interest, Masonic Homes, E~d~~~~~~- F~-~d
9,000.00
In~~!~~;·····································--····························
2,977A9 ,..
.;.._.a. ••••.;.. . . .............t. .:~~---- .. ;..-. ....•..:,. .....;....... . .
Taxes .
3,572.87
, ' Secreta;;;~··;j······:::::::: :··· ··· ··· ·· ···;·· ·· ·· ··· · · ··· ········ ·· •···
1,599.96
General office :7counti~g··:·-························-··1"<···
900.00
Trustees' ex ns .
·····································
676.44
Miscellaneou~ex~~~~·· ·········· ························· ·······
406.65
Funeral expense-Dec~-~~·-·· ·· · ·· · ······· ··· ······ ··· -- ··· · -- ·
2,963.56
Headstone ex ense
······································
246.00
Refund, $25.00-Jome
425.00
Building construction-D:-~~····-······················--········ 62,367.99
Furniture and fixtures-Deco~~·········-- ·-- ······ ·············· 2,656.91
Furniture and fixtures-Covina························-·'······
. 154.70
························'-········
Decoto power Jan
4,131.51
Covina buildin: eq~~~~~·~::::::::::::::::::::·:··········· ..·······912.00
lmprovements--<:ovina
· ······················
Special Rule N • 16..,.,...::: ............................................ . 9,904.08
0
.......... ............................................. 3,250.93
Entertainment Fund
7,999.41
···--························-·········-····
Students' Loan Fund
6,573.. 10
Scholarship Fund, se~~;l~l;~··;~-;~h~~;d-··················~· 13,986.50 .
Refund, endowment interest
......................
52.50
O•u••• ••••••o• oo••••••• • "• • •• •nOoooo

..

T"..............................................

Total disbursements .................................................
Cash balance, July 31 , 1931 ...........................................
' Anglo. Cat'i.fornia 1:rust Co. (commercial)············
Security First National Bank (commercial)
..$
~ng~o California Trust Co. (endowment int~~;~-~)
er eley Bank (collection account) ·
Security First National Bank, Pasad~~~..B~-;~--h
Petty cash funds, Covina and Decoto.........................
c ... .

....

Total ..........................................................................
358,794.00
$366,127.91

$365,586.15

*Overdraft as of July 31. Paid August 1.

$

541.76

$

541.76

3,242.58•
8,168.32•
8,677.12
2,051.44
224.10
1,000.00 .

GRAND LODGE Ol~ CAl.IFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

534

Liabilities
Notes Payable:
Endowment Fund..........................:...- ...,:...~.·-····

Exhibit B
BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1931

Assets
Cash:
In banks (overdraft)--···-······················-~········$
Petty cash-Decoto ..................,.........................
Petty cash-Covina ····················'··················-·

458.24*
500.00
500.00 $

Securities :
Special Rule No. 16 (Schedule B-3) ............$
General securities ···- ··········································
Scholarship Fund securi.ties..........c•••••••••••••••••

36,936.46
2,000.00
41,986.50

541.76

1,777,708.17

Covina Home:
24,300.00
Land ····-································································$
Buildings ............................................................ 474,330.09
7,956.49
Building equipment ..........................................
60,097.22
Improvements ....................................................
6,609.80
Laundry machinery ......................................... .
14,517.66
Furniture and fixtures ......................................
53,999.09
Hospital building ' ·············································
1,205.85
Farm improvements ..........................................

643,016.20

-----

Automobiles ................................................................
Stores and Supplies :
Decoto -·····-L·-··········:.........................................$
Covina·················'················································
Total assets ................................................

605.79
1,109.10

Fund Accounts:
Residents' deposits (due from General Fund) ..$ 10,000.00
Special Rule No. 16 (due from General
Fund) .................................................................. 108,517.89
Special Rule No. 16 (securities deposited).... 36,936.46
. Entertainment Fund (Schedule B-1).............. 3,711.36 ,
Students' Loan Fund (Scheduie B-2).............. 40,280.85 . 199,446.56
Total liabilities........................................:.....

$525,446.56

Net worth (See Exhibit · C) ......................

$2,005,076.20

NoTE: The following items are not included in this statement :
Ddnated real estate and securities received by the Secretary are not
.recorded · on the books in the case of securities having little or . no value,
'and in case of real estate, the value of which is uncertain. Upon realization of donated real estate in cash, entry of cash realized is entered in
books, as the first book record of the donation.
,.
No depreciation on fixed properties is reflected on the books or in
the above balance sheet.
Schedule B-1
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF ENTERTAINMENT FUND.
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1931
Balance, August 1, 1930 (due from General Fund} ........................$ 4,103.77
Receipts during year.......................•................., ..........._......................... 7,607.00
Total ............................:...........,...............,...................................:$11,710.77
Disbursements during year .......•········- ····················- ·················-········ . 7,999.41

-----

12,749.00
12,347.00

$325,000.00

80,922.96

Decoto Home :
Land .....:...•......................................,....................•.$ 44,969.90
Buildings ···························································· 1,480,213.03
Building equipment ..........................................
56,452.55
48,411.26
Improvements ....................................................
75,227.83
Power plant and laundry..................................
67,027.60
Furniture and fixtures ......................................
5,406.00
Farm equipment ................................................

Camp Tucker :
Real estate · ····-··························:···················$
Improvements ................................................

535

25,096.00
1,522:78

1,714.89
$2,530,522.76

Balance, July 31, 1931 (due from General Fund) ........~.$ .3,711.36
Schedule B-2
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF STUDENTS' LOAN FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED. JULY ~1 , 1931
Balance, August 1, 1930:
.
Cash (due from General Fund).~-·-······~·-··-··-'···:-$ ' 787..94
Securities .•,.•.,.•_. .....•. ~.:""... ,;.~....:..:_.............•;~~····::.h-• 2.0?<J.00 · $ 2,787.94
·r

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. PROCEEJ)INGS OF THE

536

Schedule B-3

Receipts during year:
Cash :
General contributions........................$ 4,066.01
·George F. and Laura ·B...Brigham ..
bequest ......:.....:............................... 10,000.00
.
. . ...................._........... 400000
$18,066.01
Sale
of securities
, .·
Securities:
George F. and Laura B. Brigham
bequest .......................................c••••$30,000.00
Purchased .......................................... 13,986.50

43,986.50

LIST OF SECURITIES DEPOSITED BY RESIDENTS
JULY 31, 1931
Bonds:
Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton R.R. Co.....4)4% $1,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Company..................6%
1,000.00 $ 2,000.00

62,052.51
$64,840.45

Disbur~eme~ts during year :
Cash:
·
Educ~tion ............................................$ 6,573JO
· Purchase securities .......................... 13,986.50 $20,559.60

Securities sold ......................................

4,000.00

Balance, july 31, 1931........................................

24,559.60
. $40,280.85

Composition of Fund
Cash (due the General Fund) ....................................$ 1,705.65*

Securities :
100 shares Masonic Temple Association stock ............................................$ 1,000.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund, Islam
Temple ..........~..... ................................ 1,000.00
5 .$1,000 Sugar Pine Lumber Co.
6% first mortgage bonds.................. 5,000.00
1 $1,000 Yosemite Lumber Co. 6)4%
· first mortgage bond.......................... 1,000.00
5 $1,000 Broadway Dept. Stores,
Inc., 15 year 6% sinking fund
debentures .......................................... ~,000.00
5 $1,000 Blue Diamond Co. 6% first
mortgage bonds ................................ 5,000.00
5 $1,000 Los Angeles Railway Co.
5% first mortgage bonds................ 5,000.00
5 $1,000 Fruit Growers' Supply Co.
6)4% first mortgage bonds.............. 5,000.00
527 shares Pa~ific Gas & Electric
c~. 6% preferred stock.................. 13,986.50 41,986.50
$40,280.85
Total .................................. _..................................
*Overdrawn.

537

Stocks:
California ·Mutual Bldg. & Loan
· Association ................................ 2)4 shares par ·$500.00
Calif. Prune & Apricot Growers'
18.35
Association ................................ 5 shares
Graton & Knight Co., common
stock (no par) -···············-··········· 10 shares
10.00
Graton & Knight Co., preferred
400.00
stock -·····-······--··························-· 4 shares par
Kolster Radio Corporation, com246.20
mon stock ··································-Kern County Mutual Bldg. &
Loan As!IOCiation........................ 15 shares par 1,500.00
Mercantile American Realty Co. . 5 shares par
500.00
150.00
National Leather Co.....................
Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., preferred..208 shares par 5,200.00
San-Jose Bldg. & LoaQ Assn..... 6 shares par
300.00
Southern California Edison Co... 20 shares cost 548.50
Southern California Edison Co... 9 shares par
225.00
175.00
Transamerica·-·····-·····················•······ 7 shares
scrip
Transamerica .........:........................
10.00
Intercoast Trading Co................. 1 share
1.00

9,784.05

Notes:
.
John E. Pe~shing (deed of trust) .............. :.:...........$ 1,845.02
Geo. E. and Esther Hoag................................... ~.... 2,150.00
,~~vina A. and Estelle A. Cleveland........................
800.00
:W:~_IJ!!ce D. and Bernice D. Swanson.................... 2,422.10
· J." 13". ·and Esther Anthony........................................ 3,170.39
SallJU~l. Le3:~-······-·········•·····-r·····---····'···,··-···· ..-···..····· 2,800.00
] . Donald and Margaret McCready......................... 500.00
William J. Mellis, et aL..........................................
710.00
August and Marie Kangris (deed of trust)........ 1,680.96
P. G. Little and wife ........................ .'.......................... 2,225.00
Anna Wilber (deed of trust).................................. 1,848.94

20,152.41

539

GRAND I.c..l.DGE OF CALIFORNIA

538

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit C

Life Insurance Policies:
Wes tern States Life Insurance Co., straight life
policy on Harry Joseph Clossen, face value....$ 1,000.00
Bankers Life Company, 22 year endowment policy, issued May 22, 1916 on Emil Cohn, face
value ·······················-···········································,···· 2,000.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fu~d on Harding L.
Walk (died September, 1931) ............................ 1,000.00
Fraternal Fund, Scottish Rite, on Harding L.
Walk (died September, 1931) .............................. 1,000.00
Total···························-·················································

STATEMENT OF NET WORTH

5,000.00
$36,936.46

Schedule B-4
COMPOSITION OF SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS
JULY 31,

1931

$145,454.35

$ 15,961.67

Trust Funds:
Gloria Benjamin, cash in bank..............................$ 1,314.69*
Eunice Botts, cash in bank....................................
704.66*
Total ............ :............... ~ .................................... .

9,414.22
$2,006,076.20

Exhibit D

Residents' Deposits :
Cash due from General Fund..............................$ 10,000.00
Cash on hand and in banks .......,............................ 5,961.67*
Total ····················································•·············

$2,015,490.42
Deduct:
Write-off of the following Home accounts:
Farm investment, Decoto..................................$ 8,000.00
Farm equipment, Covil)a.................................. c.
135.00
Sundry real estate investments........................ 1,279.22
Capital account, July 31, 1931..................................... .

Special Rule No. 16:
Cash due from General Fund..............................$108,511.89
Securities on hand.................................................... 36,936.46
Total ..................................................................

JULY 31, 1931
Capital Account
Capital account, August 1, 1930..................................
$1,994,519.80
Add:
Cancellation of two checks applicable to the
year 1929 ··········-······-·····································--···$
28.44
Excess of revenue over expense for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1931................................... 20,942.18
20,970.62

$ 2,019.35

*Cash in banks is contained in 'Separate bank accounts, apart from the
General Funds of the· Masonic Homes of California.

SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE (STATISTICAL)
FOR THE FISCAL YF.AR ENDED JULY 31, 1931

Revenue
Deco to
Covina
Total
Revenue from General Sources :
Maintenance Fund ........................ ..................
$229,651.00
5,152.00
Maintenance Subordinate Lodges $ 1,200.00 $ 3,952.00
Interest on Endowment Fund
26,827.34
securities -·································· ..................
Interest on bank deposits............ ..................
781.47

Total ........................................
Revenue from Operation of Homes:
Farm produce sales ........................
Farm rent ....................................... .
Salvage ............................................. .

$262,411.81
6,969.86
508.19
12.00

9,893.19

16,863.05
508.19
12.do

Total ············-····························$ 7,490.05 $ 9,893.19 $ 17,383.24
Total revenue from all sources ..................................... ,......$279,795.05

540

PROCEEDiNGS OF THFl

ORA.ND LODGE- OP' CALlll'Ot<NlA

Expenses
Maintenance .............. (Schedule D-1) .$ 53,478.14 $ 46,117,94 $ 99,596.08
11,015.18
Hospital .................... (Schedule D-1)
4,758.01
15,773.19
Farm .......................... (Schedule D-1)
6,345.75
16,332.32
22,678.07
3,588.11
Laundry ...................... (Schedule D-1)
6,464.35
2,876.24
Payroll ...................... (Schedule D-1)
14,481.78
22,584.37
37,066.15
17,871.39
General expense...... (Schedule D-1)
12,519.37
30,390.76
Total ..........................................$106,780.35 $105,188.25 $211,968.60
'
Common Expense Undistributed:
Outside relief ..................................................................................$ 23,265.84
Outside care of children....·-················-···············-······················ 3,769.14
Insurance --····························-·························································· 2,843.88
Taxes -··········-········-···-·····················-···:.......................:....... _....... · 3,572.87
Secretary's salary............................................................................ 1,599.96
General office accounting..................................................-............
900.00
432.00
Interest, Special Rule No. 16.......:................................................
Interest· on notes payable................................................................ 9,000.00
Funeral expense ··································-····-····-················-···········
171.49
246.00
· Headstone expense ····················-····················································
Trustees' expense ................., ......., ........................................:.......
676.44
General expense ·························-···················································

406.65

Total common expense undistributed.................................$ 46,884.27
Total expense .....................................................:....................$258,852.87
Excess of revenue over expense....,.:....................:..............$ 20,942.18

Clothing .................................................. 1,844.41
· Shoes •......:...........................·...................
375.46
Bedding -················································ 1,071.71
School supplies and instruction..........
Kitchen and dining room :
Operating and misc. expense...... 6,329.34
Payroll ................~ ........................... 8,654.15

541

1,151.85
1,764.98
363.74
723.29

2,996.26
2,140.44
1,435.45
723.29

4,665.24
5,569.42

10,994.58
14,223.57

Total maintenance..........................$53,478.14 $46,117.94 $99,596.08
H tJSpital Expense
Miscellaneous expense..........................$ 3,545.35 $ 3,371.34 ' $ 6,916.69
Payroll •................................................... 7,469.83
8,856.50
1,386.67
Total hospitaL...,...........................$11,015.18 $ 4,758.01 $15,773.19
-Farm Expen.se
Tools and equipment............................$
67.79 $................
67.79
Seeds ........................................................ · 50.89
39.20
90.09
8,382.84
Feed ........................................................ 3,197.77
5,185.07
General expense .................................... 2,102.80
5,202.82
7,305.62
Payroll ....................................................
926.50
5,905.23
6,831.73
Total farm ......................................$ 6,345.75 $16,332.32 $22,678.07
Laundry Expense
Expense ,_........................:.:.......:..........-..$ 704.91 $ 677.65 $ 1,382.56
Payroll .................................................... 2,883.20
5,081.79
2,198.59
Total laundry..................................$ 3,588.11 $ 2,876.24 $ 6,464.35
Payroll Expmse (Other them Farm, Laundry, Maintenance and Hospital)
Wages ....................................................$ 9,171.78 $19,044.37 $28,216.15
Salaries .................................................. 5,310.00
3,540.00
8,850.00

Schedule D-1
DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSES IN DETAIL (STATISTICAL)
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1931

,
Expenses
Maintenance Expense
Decoto ·
CoVina
Total
Groceries -·······································::.....$ 7,417.05 $11.247.33 $18,664.38
2,739.78
8,517.91
Meat -··•·-····················'··························· 5,778.13
113.05
Fish .......................................................... . 733.60
846.65
3,113.18
1,192.85
Provisions .............................................. 1,920.33
7,935.73
3,581.95
Fruit and vegetables.............................. 4,353.78
Butter, milk and eggs....................... _ 10,405.84 . 9,300.63
19,706.47
5,722.81
Baker supplies...............-......................... 4,019.34
1,703.47
276.14
276.14
Medical supplies and drugs................
2,299.22
1,724.22
Dental expense ············-························
575.00

Total payroll ..................................$14,481.78 $22,584.37 $37,066.15

General Expense
Decoto
Total
Covina
Light, heat, power and water..............$10,358.44 $ 6,940.36 $17,298.80
Plant repairs and maintenance............ 1,174.43
1,798.29
2,972.72
Freight and express..............................
439.68
187.51
627.19
2,122.09
Traveling ................................................
24.47
2,097.62
Printing and office supplies..................
403.05
746.92
1,149.97
Replacements of furniture and
fixtures ................................................ 1,144.76
180.88
1,325.64
522.44
Telephone and telegraph......................
541.27
1,063.71
45.35
3,830.64
Miscellaneous ........................................ 3,785.29
Total general expense..................$17,871.39 $12,519.37 $30,390.76

.

t'rj
><
n

., "'
"' "'"'
<
"' ><"'
:::
c:

g

"' 't:l

"'
"'"'

0

.,"'<
~

.~ .....~

~.. ~

s=>
c..

0

-(,9

.. g

0:::

"'
<

"' c::::"'

()"'

>-l

0

~

><
"' 't:lg"'
e:.,
:'

i 3
l: 0:I:
i ~

::: :

"'
"'

~

~

~

s: :
c:

$
~

~ $.
N !,i

'O

"'

-(,9

~

'l

~
iG
~

~

~
~::::: '"-l

"'

Q

"gg\o ~

""'&l ~

~~

'(fl

0

"'

~~

'O

...,..

tj

z

.,

-(,9

~

~

*

"'

~

c...

::;·
!'"'.l.

<.. <:>

"'

0

l:i:J
l"l

Q.

.~ ..b :::<"'"'
c:
~~
'l

0

...

Q. '-"

:::- :

'O

~

Q.

Q. ;

r;;·:

~
0

~

V>

::: :

.c:"'"' ::.

Q.

~

't:l

~ 2.

'l

~ 0

"'>< ,,....._
r:n
::t.
"' ::-.
"'
"'~
"' n·
"'n>< o~
"'"' '<:::
~
0
"'

~

::: :::!.

r "'

"l'j

.. E ~

"'
30 ;;_
3
u;·
0

"' r::r
>< ~

: g "'
! .....
: ~
: 3

.....

~ >-l § ~

Q. ><
Q. 't:l

., ..!'.l.

~

l: :I:
0
: 3
: "'
*'O
*

~
'O

>t'I1

t:1

"'
c:

Q.

0

"J

"'
.,...,

>.,]

:Ii

;

l"l

:I:

e

.g·"'

a
g'
"'

"'"'

Masonic Homes of California
d
!i

.,

Secretary's Report-Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical)
Schedule D-2

1929
1930
1931
Decoto
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
Cost of n'i:lintenance*....$62,J08.04 $59,761.-55 $68,675.52 $81, 375.86 $81,932.83 $80,839.22 $88,282.75 $92,974.69 $106,151.35 $99,290.30
Avg. No. of residents....
148.75
148
165.66
194
213
224
242
260
281+
314+
Average operating cost
· ·
per mo.nth .................... $5,192.33 $4,980.12 $5,722.96 $6,781.32 $6,827.73 $6, 736.60 $7,356.89
$7,747.89
$8,845.94 $8,274.19
Average cost per day......
170.()7
163.73
188.15
222.94
224.47
221.47
241.87
254.72
290.82
272.03
Average cost per resi·
dent per year...._........
418.89
403.79
414.55
419.46
384.66
360.89
357.59
377.76
316.21
364.80
Average cost per resi30.4()
dent per month._.......
32.05
30.07
29.79
26.35
34.90
33.65
34.54
34.95
31.48
Avtrage cost per resident per day................
1.148
1.106
1.135
1.15
1.053
.98
.99
.981.93+
.866
Avg. No. of employees
24.5
24
24
26.5
27
28
31
30.5
34
38
*The maintenance cost includes General MaintenanceJ_Farm, Laundry, Payroll and General Expense less farm produce sales and all
ot~r credits appertaining to the direct operation of the Homes.
.
. Cwints
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
. 1928
1929
1930
1931
Cost o.f maintenance*..$55,507.14 $61,691.66 $61,828.90 $73,002.73 $76,313.93 $79,036.83 $90,351.()4 $1C>l,803, 18 $109,184.26 $95,295.06
Avg. No. of re•idents..
92
105
113
·
144
165
166
172
184
185+
170
Average operating cost
.
per mo11th.................. $4,625.59 $5,140.97 $5,152.41 $6,083.56
$6,359.49 $6,586.40 $7,529.25
$8,483.59
$9,C>98.69 $7,941.25
Average cost per day....
152.C>7
169.02
169.40
200.00+
209.07
216.54
247.53
278.91
299.13
261.08
Average cost per resi525.29
553.27
590.18
560.56
547.16
506.96
462.50
dent per year............
603.33
476.1 2
587.54
Average cost per resi~
46.71
49.il!
dent per month ......50.27+
48.96
45.59
42.24+
38.54
39.67+
43.77
46.10
Average c<N1t per resi·
..
dent per day..............
1.6S+
1.61I.SO1.391.26+
1.30+
1.44-'1.516
1.53+
1.61 +
29+
Avf. No. of employees
16.5
18
19
2223
25
28
3028+
'Tbe. maintenance COllt includes General Maintenance, Farm, Laundry, Payroll ;1nd General Expense less farm produce sales and
all other credits appertaining .to the direct operation of the Homes.
NOTE: This statistical report has been prepared by the office of Masonic Homes of California and is inserted for information
purpi>ses only. .
.
.
1l
· Number of children living outside the Home receiving support ..._ ...........:.... -

· ~~~£ £rir~~"Jfi'i~:::;;;:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~3,~gi:~:

,.

Q

~

ztj

t"
0
Cl

Q

l"l
0
"J

~

t"

~:d

z

>

"'
~

545

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

544 '

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit A

Exhibit B

Endowment Fund

COMPOSITION OF ENDOWMENT FUND

STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

JULY 31, 1931

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1931

Cash on hand, August 1, 1931.....:.....:······-····-········-··········-··········~·-··$47,894.16
Receipts

~~:U~!~~~. ::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$14,;;~:~

Special-John and Lena Luckenbach bequest.............. 24,000.00
Sundry receipts: Deceased residents' deposits............ 1,512.13
Sale of securities :
·
5 Spring Valley Water Co. bonds at
par ····················-··············-····················$5,000.00
2 shares Baker & Hamilton Co. stock
(par $200.00) ........................................
7.00
5,007.00
Collections on I. C. and Isabella Lawyer note..............

End~nt Securities:

U. S. Government Bonds, at par :
First Liberty Loan-converted........... .4~% $ 11,700.00
Fourth Liberty Loan........................:.....4~% 182,850.00

200.00

Total receipts........................................................

45,527.60 ,.

Total cash funds to account for ......................

$93,421.76

Disbursemen ts
Masonic Homes of California-5% demand notes......$45,000.00
Purchase of 4 shares California Edison ·common
stock on rights received (par value $25.00 i)er
share) ·······················--···········································-······
100.00

Total disbursements...........................;....- .....:....

45,100.00

Cash on hand, July 31, 1931............................

$48,321.7;6

Composition of Funds:
Crocker First Federal Trust Co. No. 23899...'.....$ 330.56 ·
American Trust Co. (Union branch) No. 20608 2,500.00 .
Anglo California Trust Co. No. 4532.................... 2,963.00
Bank of America (French American branch)
·
No. 6250 - ················-······-················-··············'·--'· . 5,ss3:58 ·
San Francisco Bank No. 247302...................,.......... 2,500:00 ··
Bank of America (Humboldt branch) No. 3743.. 34,144;62 ·
·,

Endourmmt Cash (Savings Accounts):
Humboldt Branch, Bank of America..........- ....$ 34,144.62
French American Branch, Bank of America.... 5,883.58
Anglo California Trust Co................................. 2,963.00
American Trust Co..................................·-············ 2,500.00
Crocker First Federal Trust Co.......................330.56
The San Francisco Bank...............................·-···· 2,500.00 $ 48,321.76

~ ..

Other Bonds, at Par:
City of Santa Barbara, Street..................40%
City of Santa Barbara, Water..................4~%
City and County of San Francisco, ·
City Hall ······-················-························5 %
City and County of San Francisco,
Street Railways ...........•..:.......................5 %
City and County of San Francisco,
Water ··- ··--······························-······:·······40%
City and County of San Francisco,
Sewer -··································~·-···············-5 %
City of Richmond, Municipal Improvement .............:..- .......................~ ................5 %
City of Upland, Municipal Improvement -·······'-····························-················6 %
City of Ashland, Water............................5 %
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co.........5 o/o
California Gas & Electric Corporation..5 %
Los Angeles Railway Co...........................5 %
Pacific Gas and Electric Company..........5 · %
Jonathan Club of Los Angeles................7 %

11,287.50
1,000.00
21,000.00
1,000.00
40,000.00
10,000.00
5,000.00
3,125.00
9,000.00
16,000.00
19,000.00
5,000.00
5,000.00
1,500.CD

.----

To~al ~··-·····:·················---·············-·····-·-.-;..~. ... :

194,550.00

~; ';; $48,321.76

......... :..====

'

.

147,912.50

546

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Other Bonds at Cost:

$ 5,000.00 East Bay Municipal Utility
District ·........................................ 5
3,000.00 Oroville Union High School
District ................'...... ~ ..:.......... :... 5
10,000.00 Los Angeles County Flood
Control District ....,..;.• _•.•......... 5
5,000.00 ,Long Beach High . SchooL..... 5

% $ 5,326.55
%

3,114.63

%
%

10,720.64
5,417.65

Stock, Southern California Edison Co. (Cost)
17 shares ................................................................. .
M:as.onic Homes of California-Note, 5%., ............. .

Donated Stocks, at Face Value (Distributed):**
500.00
Olympic Dredging Co., 5 shares..........................$
Masonic Temple Association, 2329}'.i shares.... 23,292.50
· · Taft Masonic T~mple -".\ssociation, 1 share......
100.00
790.00
Los Angeles Investment Co., 79 shares..............
Colma Land Cq., 25 .shares.................................. . · 25.00
100.00
Baker, Hamilton & pacific Co., 1 share..........
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 108 shares................ 2,700.00
Visalia Bµilding & Loan Assn., 10 shares........ 1,000.00
Donated Stocks q,t Par and Market Value of July
28, 1931:

'

547

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.

Estate of Christine Breon (Undistributed)
Amer. Telephone & Telegraph ·Co., 7 shares ..$
700.00
Bond and Share Co., Ltd., 13 shares ................. .
78.00
Broad River Power Co., 10 shares ......... ;·····-·'·'· 1,000.00
Calamba Sugar Estate, 85 shares..................... . 1,700.00
California Packing Corporation, 9. shares....... .
207.00
Calwa Company, 7 shares.................................... .
70.00
Central States Power & Ligh.t Corp., 14 shares ·
728~00·
Central &. Southwest.em Utilities Co., 5 shares
450.00 '
W. B. Coon Co,,:preferred stock, 5 shares....... .
500.00
W. B. C9on Co., common stock, 15 shares ....... .
11.00
Crocker First National Bank of S. F., 2 shares
200.00
' Crown Willamette Paper Co., 10 shares......... .
520.00
Ewa· Pla1;1tation _Cqmpany, 12 shares................. .
240.00
Galland Mercantile Laundry Co., 5 shares ...... ..
160.00
Guggenheim & Company, 16 shares.................... 1,312.00
Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co., 20 shares
500.00
Hawaiian Pineapple Co., 28 shares......................
560.00

24,579.47

420.35
225,000.00
592,462.32

28,507.50

Hawaiian Sugar Company, 25 shares................
Honolulu Oil Corporation, Ltd., 14 shares ........
International Hydro-Electric System, 38 shares
Oahu Sugar Company, Ltd., 5 shares-............. .
Onomea Sugar Co., 42 shares ..............................
Pacific American Fisheries, Inc., 10 shares ......
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 47 shares ................'
Pacific Lighting Corporation, . 29 shares..........
Pantepec Oil Company of Venezuela, 9 shares
Peoples' Light & Power Corporation, 3 shares
Pig'n Whistle Corporation, 68 shares ................
The Pure Oil Company, 5 shares....................... .
Realization Company, 2 shares ............................
Shaffer Oil & Refining Co., 17 shares ............... .
Shell Union Oil Corporation, 11 shares ............
Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corp., 5 shares ..... .
So. California Gas Corporation, 6 shares ......... .
A. E. Stanley Manufacturing Co., 15 shares....
Stand:itd Oil Co. of California, 240 shares ..... .
Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, 4 shares ............. .
Standard Oil Co. of New York, 49 shares..... .
Standard Power & Light Corp., 5 shares ........
The Sun Drug Company, 1 share ....................... .
Telephone Investment Corporation, 11 shares
Tidewater Associated Oil Co., 5 shares ........... .
United Linen Supply Co., 4 shares .......- .........
Universal Consolidated Oil Co., 8 shares......... .
Universal Chain Theatres Corp., 20 shares ......
Yosemite Portland Cement Corp., 15 shares ... .
Schulte United Sc to $1 Stores, Inc., 10 shares

500.00
196.00
874.00
100.00
840.00
80.00
1,175.00
1,508.00

7.00
30.00
204.00
125.00
12.00
340.00
66.00
500.00
630.00
1,500.00
8,640.00
100.00
1,225.00.
485.00
100.00
220.00
500.00
96.00
80.00
40.00
150.00
2.00

29,261.00

Donated Bonds at Face Value (Distributed):**
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co .............5% $ 1,000.00
Home Tel. & Tel. Co., Spokane..... ,........... .
500.00
1,000.00
Northern California Power Co...................5%
Pacific Gas and Electric Company............6%
2,000.00
University Masonic Temple Association....6%
100.00

4,600.00

Donated Bonds, at Par Value of July 28, 1931:
Estate of Christine Breon (Undistributed)
Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation Dist... 6 % $.
Donna Irrigation Dist., Hidalgo County.. 5 %
Imperial Irrigation District, Bond Issue
No. 4 ........................................................6 %
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation Dist...6 %

1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00

548

' PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oroville W yandotte Irrigation Dist .......6 %
Palo Verde Irrigation District................6 %
Pecos County Water lmprovem't. Dist. ..6 %
Pick Barth Holding Corporation..........6 %
State of Arizona, Queen Creek Irrigation District ······-························-'-·······6~%
Reclamation District No. 1660, County
of Sutter ······················-···.:···-·········:.......6 %
Terra Bella Irrigation District................6 %

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00

11,000.00

Miscellaneous Donations (Distributed) :••
3,000 Ochoco Irrigation District De- ·
posit Certificates ....................................
$ 3,000.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund, Islam
Temple ......................................................
1,000.00
Note of' Ila Calvin and Isabelle Lawyer (~alance) ···'·······'···..·············'···········6 %
700.00

4,700.00

Total Securities-Endowment Fund.............................. • $670,530.82
Tot_al Cash and Securities-Endowment Fund............ $718,852.58
*NoTE: U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan bonds valued at $100,000.00 were
pledged to the Anglo California Trust Co., as security on a note issued
to them by . the Masonic Homes of California for a one year loan of
$100,000.00 at 4~%, dated April 2, 1931 and due April 2, 1932.
**NOTE : Donated securities distributed have been entered on the books
at par or face value and hence do not represent market values.
JOH N WHICHER, S ecretary.

549

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home
To the Board of Tr11stees:
I herewith present for your consideration the following report
for the year ending August 31, 1931.
The management of the Home has been substantially the same
as in former years. We have endeavored to create and maintain a
social atmosphere in keeping with the ideals of our fraternity and
bring as large a measure of contentment as possible into the daily
life of all who are enjoying the many comforts of our Home.
During the past year, on the final completion of the new Administration building, the first floor is occupied by the offices, library,
reception room, etc. The ·four other floors by single women who
formerly roomed in · the East building. The first and second. floors
of the East building are now occupied by men residents. The third
and fourth floors are now available for new accessions to the membership of the Home.
Owing to the building program for several years past, the
grounds near the main buildings have received little care. The roads
have now been graded, the lawns renewed and a variety of shrubs,
climbing vines and ornamental trees have been planted in various
places, and a good beginning has been made to enhance the beauty
of the grounds.
A few minor improvements have been made, and among those
worthy of mention are the erection of a flag staff in front of the
main buildings, where the American flag is daily raised at sunrise
and lowered at sunset. A new croquet court is being prepared, regulation size, in front of the South wing and will soon be ready for
use by the members of the family.
Health-There are at present 40 persons being cared for in our
hospital department, where to those who are ill every care and attention is given. Day and night nurses are in constant attendance. The
general health of the Home has been normal with the exception of
those who are infirm and feeble. owing to advancing years.
Members.-There are at the Home 326 residents-176 men and
150 women. During the year there have been admitted 47 men and·
22 women. The number of departures has been 9, and 34 have passed
away.
Industrial-All the members of the Home are encouraged to
render some service in keeping with their strength, and in their
leisure hours interest themselves in healthful and wholesome diversions for their general well-being. A number of the brethren have
contributed by their labor to the welfare of the Home by their
services in the carpenter and paint ~hops, care of the garage, mail,

550

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

passenger and ·auto service, kitchen, pantry, hospital, vegetablC room,
laundry, store room, chiropodist, poultry yards, roads, care of flower
beds, lawns, clerical work and messenger service, attending telephone
calls and light work in a general. way. During the year all minor
repairs have been attended to by brethren of the Home.
· .
All making, marking and mending of linen, sheets, pillow slips,
table cloths, preserving fruit, etc., is attended to by the women of
the Home. They also assist in preparing fruit, vegetables work in
the kitchen and dining room, and take care of their rooms, ' halls and
laupdry and general household duties.
Water-At this season of the year the natural supply of water is
low, and there has been a marked decrease in service given by our
dee,p well pump. When necessary we are enabled by means of our
auxiliary pump to connect with the Niles water supply and keep our
reservoirs full at all times and equal to any demand made upon them.
Library and Club Rooms-There are now 5500 books on the
library shelves of our main library and branches located in the ·c1ub
rooms and hospital department. The Masonic Hill branch of the
Alaineda County Free Library continues to be well patronized and
we are the recipients, through members of the fraternity, of daily
papers, magazines and pe'r iodicals which are placed on the tables of
the men's club rooms and the women's reading and social rooms.
A reading class for those with impaired eyesight or entirely
?.1ind, meets daily. At that time the daily papers and subjects of
mterest are read to them by good readers selected from the members
of the Home.
Social Life-The members of the Home have during. the past
year enjoyed many splendid programs and stage plays provided by
friends -who are int.erested in our welfare. These evening programs
ohen close with dancing. E:very Tuesday evening many of the family
gather in the library where tables are provided for cards, chess,
checkers, etc. Chorus practice every Friday evening. The usual
servic~s are held every Sunday afternoon. These services are .often
conduc_ted by ministers accompanied by the choirs of their churches,
after which a. few numbers are given by -the Home orchestra.
The Grand Chapter of California, Order of the Eastern Star, at
their annual com_m unication in 1930 appropriated $1,000.00 for the
1>urchasP. of three domestic Persian rugs and a Stromberg-Carlson
ra_dio .a·nd gramophone for the general reception room on the first
ffoor of the Administra_tion building. The above have been added to
the furnishings provided by them for this room several years ago.
The· Remler radio so kindly donated by Mrs. A. E. Selig of San

GRAND LOIDGE OF CALIFORNIA

551

Francisco has been placed in the ' men's club room in the East wing.
A number of the members of the Home have radio sets installed in
their rooms. This privilege is particularly appreciated by those wh.o·
are blind and those who are confi ned to their beds in the hospital
department.
All holidays have been observed with appropriate exercises. The
specials were those which were held on New Year's Eve, Ne~ Year's
Day, Lincoln's and Washington's birthdays, Easter, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.
Farm-There has been no change in the management of the
farm. The greater part of the hill ranch has as in the past been
leased either on shares or cash rental. Our share has been more than
sufficient for the needs of the farm department, the surplus being sold
in the local market. The orchards have supplied plenty of fruit for
table use, the surplus being preserved or sent to the drier and stored
for future use. The garden has supplied a variety of vegetables and
greens. The chicken ranch has supplied all eggs for table and kitchen
use. All over and above our needs have been preserved in water-glass
or sold in the San Francisco market.
Arrangements have been made w hereby members of the family,
a few at a time may enjoy an outing to nearby places of interest.
During this yea; many trips were made to Oakland, San Francisco,
San Jose and towns in the vicinity of the Home.
Grand Master John Stewart R oss, officers and members of the
Grand Lodge have made a number of visits to the Home during the
year, and a large number of brethren from various L odges have spent
many pleasant hours with us. The number of visitors and donations
received this year indicates an increasing interest in t he welfare of
the Home family.
I wish to extend my appreciation of the loyal · services rendered
by the officers and employees throughout the year,. and to express
to the Board of Trustees my sincere gratitude for the friendly advice
and support they have at all times given me.
FRA N K

B. HARTMAN , Superintendent.

• I

.'

552

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Visitations to Decoto Home
September 5, 1930, American Legion ba~d, Hayward. Concert
in the .Assembly Hall.
September 13, Golden West Lodge No. 455. Miscellaneous entertainment.
September 20, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.
instrumental program.

Dancing, vocal and

September 21, Fortitude Lodge No. 624. Visited the several
departments of the Home.
September 22, Encina Chapter U. D., 0. E. S. and Caliz de Oro
Chapter No. 457, 0. E. S. Miscellaneous entertainment.
September 28, Crocker Chapter No. 382, 0. E. S. Entertainment
in Assembly Hall.
October 4, Rosa M. Shattuck Chapter No. 504, 0. E. S. Stage
play, musical program.
October 5, Parnassus Chapter No. 269, 0. E. S. Entertainment
in the afternoon.
October 15, annual visit of the Grand officers and members of
the Grand Lodge.
October 19, Burlingame Bethel No. 7, Daughters of Job. Stage
play.
October 21, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. First degree in Temple.
October 22, officers and members of the Grand Chapter, O. E. S.
October 29, Alameda Lodge No. 167 and Oriental Chapter 177,
0. E: S. Program of entertainment given by members of the Home.
November 13, Washington Chapter, Order of De Molay. Stage
play. Band concert.
._ December 7, Mount Oso Lodge No. 460. Miscellaneous program.
December 12, Washington Township Club. ·Stage play.
December 20, Hayward Bethel No. 21, Job's Daughters. Ritualistic work.
January 10, 1931, Oakland Chapter, Order De Molay. Musical
program.
January 18, Straus' Musical Orchestra. Musical progr~m in the
afternoon.
February 14, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Entertainment in Assembly Hall.
February 23, California Chapter Order of De Molay. Stage play;
band concert.

553

March 15, Mount~in View Lodge No. 194. Minstrel show.
March 18, students. o.f Amador Valley Joint High School. Opera,
"Belle ~f Bagdad."
.
April 16, Foothill Lodge No. 564. Third degree, in Temple.
April 26, Monterey Lodge No; 27. · Visit to the Home.
May 3, East Bay Lodge No. 489. Instrumental concert given by
stt:ide~ts of the Edison Jr. High School, Berkeley.
May 16, Brooklyn Lodge .No. 225: Miscellaneous program.
May 17, Escalon Lodge No. 591. Band concert in the afternoon.
May 19, Rockridge Lodge No. 468. Third degree, in Temple.
May 22, Men's Club of the Pilgrim's Congregational Church of
Oakland. Minstrel show.
·
May 23, class of girls from Miss Butler's ~chool for Dancing, ·
Oakland.
May 24, Argonaut Lodge No. 461. . Program in the afternoon;
stage play, etc.
·
.
May 27, Golden Rule Lodge No. 479. Second degree, · in Temple.
June 6, South San Francisco Lodge No. 212. Miscellaneous program in the eveni~g.
June 13, Mission Chapter Order of De Molay. Stage piay, 3 act
comedy.
June 18, Jewel Lodge No. 374. Concert program given by
orchestra.
June 20, Paul Revere Lodge No. 462. Miscellaneous program in
the even.iug.
June 27, Wood Lo Assembly No. 20, Order of the Rainbow.
Miscellaneous program .
. June 28, Golden Gate Chapter No. I, 0. E. S. Entertainment in
Assembly Hall.
· July 7, H~yward Chapter Order of De Molay. Degree work.
August 'IS, officers and members of the East Bay Past Matrons'
Association, 0. E. S., accompanied by the Grand Matron and Grand
Patron, and officers of the Grand Chapter 0. E. S.
August 22, Oakland Lodge No. 188. Second degree, in Temple,
in the afternoon, and miscellaneous program in Assembly Hall in the
evening.
.
. A4gust 23, Southern Pacific . Glee Club and Orchestra. Vocal
and musical program.

•

555

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Donations to Decoto Home
Grand Chapter 0. E . S.-1 Stromberg-Carlson combination radio and
gramophone, 3 domestic Persian rugs.
Sherman Clay & Co., San Francisco-JS gramophone records.
East Bay Matrons' Association-51 d~esser scarfs, 42 night gowns,
37 comforters, 33 table covers, 27 chair and settee cushions, 3
cases table peaches, 4 cases table pears, 3 cases table pineapples,
1986 glasses jelly and jam.
Frances H. Gray-1 package of periodicals.
Chas. A. McKelvey, Berkeley No. 363-1 large oak roll top desk.
Miss L. Robe-1 large package of silk pieces for patch work.
Sewing Center, Encina Chapter U. D., 0. E. S.-1 comforter.
Hannah Meddehoff, Oroville-20 vols. books.
Golden West Lodge No. 455-85 lbs. candy, 150 cigars.
Rosa M. Shattuck Chapter No. 504, 0. E. S.-20 lbs. candy, 30
glasses jelly.
Catherine · Pankow-1 nickel plated music stand.
Norman C. Gregory-1 package 'magazines.
Gertrude M. Burtchael-2 vols. books.
J. M. Lenee, Ukiah-1 box apples.
K. W. Heuter-42 packs playing cards.
Sheldon I. Kellogg-1 package magazines.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-5 gals. ripe olives.
Sewing Club, Hayward Chapter No. 331, 0. E. S.-152 ladies' handkerchiefs.
·
Coachella Lodge No. 476-25 lbs. dates.
Mrs. A. Gretease-1 ladies' jacket.
L. E. Hankey, Fruitvale No. 336-1 large package perioditals.
Alameda Lodge No. 167-25 gallons ice cream, 26 boxes candy, l_ box
apples.
Parnassus Chapter No. 269, 0. E. S.-80 glasses jelly; 2 jars pickles,
5 lbs. candy.
Crockett Chapter No. 382, 0. E. S.~5 glasses jelly, 15 lbs: candy.
Orient Chapter No. 177, 0 .. E. S.-35 large home made cakes.
Dr. and Mrs. E. Fletcher-22 glasses jelly.
Phillip L. Brun-1 package magazines.
C. C. Carver, Oroville-:-5 gallons ripe olives.
Maxwell Chapter No. 369, o, E. s.- 17 glasses jelly.
Hayward Bethel, Job's Daughters-4 boxes apples.
Porterville Lodge No. 338---3 boxes oranges, 25 lbs. walnuts.
Fruitvale Chapter No. 297, 0. E. S.-2 boxes oranges, 2 boxes apples,
I bunch bananas.
Marion Staver.:._1 table scarf.
Masonic Club of Y osemite-10 vols. books, I package magazines.

John E . Ellis, Los Gatos-1 package periodicals, 15 vols. books.'
Boys and Girls of Alameda-IS lbs. ci}ocolate candy.
Arthur E. Selig-6 suits pajamas, 4 suits combination un derwear.
Bernice Baxter, Oakland-I package magazines.
Emma Pe~erson-1 package men's clothing.
Mary E. Stokes-1 American flag, 6 x 9.
Mrs. J. Meyers-6 vols. fiction.
Kathleen K. Dasher-1 vol. Life of Mary Baker Eddy.
David Fairbanks-34 vols. fiction.
Anders Bang-5 vols. fiction.
Mrs. Arthur Alexander-5 jars preserves.
A. W. Farley, Oakland-5 packs playing cards.
Rollin M. Kelley, San Francisco-I cribbage board.
Wm. Russell Stone, Woodstock Lodge No. 491-13 vols. Harper's
magazines.
Alice B. Smith, Oakland-I package clothing.
Wm. A. Gordon-1 box books and periodicals..
Elizabeth F. White, Berkeley-3 vols. books.
Grace R. Moore, Berkeley_.:2 vols. books.
Mrs. A. E. Selig, San Francisco-1 Remler radio.
A. 0. Hazlehurst-4 pr. blankets, 2 sheets, I spread.
Mrs. A. Steiner-1 package ladies' clothing.
·
Chas. H. Wood, Oakland-I package periodicals.
South San Francisc'o Lodge No. 212-200 cigars, 50 lbs. candy.
Frances Jacobs-8 vols. fiction.
Mrs. Geo. W. Perkins, Oakland-1 large package. men's clothing.
Mrs. 0. T. Decker-I vol. History of Freemasonry.
Mary McGuire-1 White sewing machine, 1 rug.
Seymour C. Gifford-17 table forks, 2 table knives, · 4 table spoons,
5 kitchen knives, I carving set.
Masters and Wardens Association of Los Angeles-75 vols. fiction.
Beth Hanchett, Oakland-1 package magazines.
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215-150 cigars, 45 glasses jelly, 20 lbs. chocolates, 4 cans fruit.
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462-28 vols. miscellaneous books.
M. Blum, San Francisco-4 vols. History of Freemasonry.

554

556

'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home

Lodges
Lodge
No.
Acorn ..........................-494
Alameda ......................167
Alamo ··················-····-122
Alcatraz .....................244
Alisa! -··························321
Alpha ............................431
Alturas ........................248
Amador ........................ 65
Amity ............................370
Antioch ........................175
Apollo ··················-······396
Arcata ........................-106
Argonaut ......................461
Argonne ......................514
Artesia ..........................377
Ashlar ··················-······306
Atascadero ..................493
Athens ..........................228
Azusa ······-··········-········305
Balder ··-·········:............393
Bay City ......................526
Bay View ········-··········401
Bear Mountain............ 76
Berkeley ...........,..........363
Blackmer ......................442
Brooklyn .....................225
Buckeye ........................195
Burlingame ..................400
Cahuenga ....................513
Calaveras --················ 78
Caledonia ............:....:..486 '
California .................... 1
Callayomi ..... ~ ..........- ..282
Carquinez ········-··········337
Charity ........................362
Charter Rock ..............410
Chico ················--········111
Clay ..............................101
Coalinga ......................387
Colusa ......................,..240

Amt.
$10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
6.10

15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Compass .............~ ........590
Concord ..........:...'.......... 117
Confidence ....................203
Corinthian ...:'.............._ 9
Corona ....:.....................324
Coronado ...................:..441
Covenant ..........:...........527
Crescent · ...................... 45
Crockett .,................~ ...139
Cupertino ....................510
Curtis -··························140
Delta .. :.........................471
Doric ............................216
Dunsmuir ·....................297
Durant ..........................268
East Bay ......................489
East Gate........:.............290
Eden ..............................113
Eel River...........:.:........147
El Cajon Valley..........576
El Centro......................384
El Dorado .............:......' 26
Elmhurst ......................610
El Segundo ..................507
Enterprise .................... 70
Escalon ........................591
Eucalyptus ..................243
Eureka .....................:.. 16
Evergreen ....................259
Excelsior ..................:...166
Fairmount ..~:......::....:...435
Far West .....................:673
Ferndale ················-····193
Fidelity ......................- 120
Fillmore •.....................379
Fort Crook ..................575
Fortitude ......................624
Francis Drake ............376
Franklin ...................... 143
Fraternity ....................399

Amt.
$10.00 '
20.00
. 10.00
10.00

25.oo
10.00
' 5.00

· 5.oo ·
25.00
2.50

to.oo
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00 '
10.00

25.oo ·
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00

25.00 '
. 25.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.
Lodge
Fremont ........................497
Friendship ...............:....210
Fruitvale •.....................336
Georgetown ................ 25
George Washington ....525
Golden Gate.................. 30
Golden Rule..................479
Gold Hill...................... 32
Hammonton ................433
Hanford .....................279
Hawaiian .................... 21
Henry Clay .................. 95
Henry Morse
..
Stephens ..................541
Henry S. Orme ..........458
Herman •.......................127
Hesperian _.:...............264 ,
Highland Park .....:......382 .
Hills Ferry Lodge ......236
Hiram· .......................... 43
Hollenbeck ..................319
Hollywood ..................355
Honolulu ......................409
Howard ........................ 37
Illinoistown ................ 51
Indian Rock ................638
Ione .............................. 80
Jewel ............................374
John P . J arman ..........669
Jonathan .....................•545
Jubilee ..........................604
Justice ..........................549
Kaweah ........................665
La Brea ······-················650
Lake Shore ................551
La Mesa ......................4-07
Landmark ...................253
La Parfaite Union..:... 17
Laurel ..........................245
Libertas ........................466
Liberty ......;...................299
Lincoln ........................470
Live Oak ...................... 61

Amt.
$ 5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
50.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
100.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00

Lodge
No.
Lodi .............................256
Long Beach ................327
Los Angeles ................ 42
Los Gatos ....................292
Madera ......_. ................280
Madison ........................ 23
Maricopa ......................434
Marin ............................191
Martinez ····- ················ 41
McKinley ....................347
Mendocino ..................179
Midway ........................426
Military Service .......... 5~0
Mill Valley .......,..........356
Mission ........................169
Modesto ........................675
Monterey ......................217
Morgan Hill ······- ········463
Mosaic ..........................218
Mountain View ..........194
Mt. Diablo ..................448
Mount Moriah ............ 44
Mount Oso ............~ ....460
N a.toma Lodge ............ 64
Naval ............................ 87
Needles .....,..................326
Nevada ........................ 13
Nicolaus ......................129
Norwalk ......................315
Oak Grove ..,...............215
Oakland ............... ~........188
Oasis ............................664
Occidental .:.................. 22
Ontario ........................301
Oriental ........................144
Orland .........................265
Oxnard ........................341
Pacific ..........................136
Pacific Grove ............331
Palestine ......................351
Palisades .......•..............637
Palo Alto ....................346
Palos Verdes ..............389

557

Amt.
$10.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00

15.oo
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
10.00

s.oo

10.00

25.00

SSS

Lodge

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Pajaro -------------·····-·····--110
Park ···········---········-··-····449
Parnassus -·······-·-······-·-388
Pasadena ..................... .272
Paso Robles ................286
Patterson .................... ..488
Paul Revere ............... .462
Perris -···-····················--.411
Petaluma ...................... 180
Phoenix ........................ 178
Piedmont ...................... S21
Pinole ..........................3S3
Pittsburg ..................... .429
Plumas -·······-·-··---·-······-· 60
Point ······---···-······-··········S03
Point Firmin --···-··-·--··SS8
Pomona ---·-··---····-··--···-.246
Presidio ···-·····-···-······-···3S4
Ramona ·---··--····-···-·--·---4S7
Reading ····--····-·····--····--2S4
Redwood City ·····-···---168
Richmond ....................37S
Rising Light ···-········----397
Riverside ·------·-··-··-··--···63S
Rockridge ....................468
Roosevelt ... :.................. SOO
Roseville ..................... .222
Russian River ............ 181
Sacramento .................. 40
St. Helena···-·---··-·-·---··- 93
Salinas ---···-------····-'··---·.204
San Benito ----·-······-----.211
San Bernardino --···-··--348
San Diego ·-··-·--·-··-····-·· 3S
San Dimas ................. .428
San Francisco ............360
San Gabriel ................ S46
San Jacinto ··--··-··········-338
San Jose ·-·-··-···-·--·-······ 10
San Mateo ................. .226
San Miguel ..................28S
San Pasqual .............:..4S2
San Pedro ·····--······--····-332

Amt.
$10.00
lS.00
20.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
2.SO
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
10.00
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
10.00
S.00
12.SO
7.SO
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
40.00
2S.OO
lS.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
San Simeon -·--······-·····--196
Santa Barbara ............ 192
Santa Cruz -···--····-···-··· 38
Santa Maria ................ S80
Santa Monica .............. 307
Santa Paula ................291
Santa Rosa .................. S7
Seaport ........................ SSO
Semper Virens ............ SS2
Sequoia ........................ 349
Silver Gate --····---········.296
Silver Trowel ............ .AlS
Silveyville ....................201
Sincerity --···-·······---------132
Sojourner ··--·······---·····-607
Southern California ... .278
South Pasadena ..........367
South San Francisco ..212
Speranza Italiana ..... .219
Standard ......................440
Starr King ..................344
Suisun -------··················· SS
Sunnyvale .................... Sl 1
S. W. Hackett ····-··-----S74
Taft ···-·-········-··--·--··-'·····S16
Tehachapi -----···-·-········-313
Tehama ·---------··--··-······· 3
Temblor -··--··-····-·-····-··.-477
Texas --····--·------····-········ 46
Thousand Oaks _________ .478
Triangle --········-···--------S48
Truckee -················-·---·.200
Tuolumne ···········----····· 8
Tuscan ···············-·----··---261
Union -···-··--·-·---············- S8
Vallee de France ........329
Vallejo ····----·----·-···········487
Vesper ·--·--····-············--· 84
Victorville -··-···········-·-··634
Victory ····-·····-··-·-·······.474
Visalia ······-····-····-···-----.128
Washington ---············· 20
Wes tern Star .............. 2

Amt.
$10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
20.00
29.80
12.SO
S.00
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
10.00
S.00
S.00
2S.OO
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
20.00
20.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
12.SO
S.00
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
lS.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
· 10.00
10.00
2S.OO
10.00

SS9

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
White Pine -·-·-······--···-·SSS
Willow Glen ····-·······-··-676
Wilmington ·····-······-··-··198
Woodbridge ·--··-·······--·131
Woodland ··----·······-······1S6

Amt.
$10.00
2.SO
S.00
S.00
S.00

Lodge
No.
Woodstock ................. .491
Y erba Buena ..............403
Yolo --·-··-··--··--·-··-·--···-··· 81
Yosemite ·-····-····-···-·····- 99

Amt.
$ S.00
S.00
2.SO
10.00

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Alameda ····-·--··--······-·-- 70
Anaheim ·······------·······'·12S
Antioch ........................ 6S
Berkeley ·-····--···-·--··-···· 92
California ··········----·····- S
Calistoga ···-··--·-·--·········118
Chico ············---·--·········· 42
Coalinga ·--·····--·---·-······ 114
Colusa ·············--···-······- 60
Crown ······--····-·----········ 72
Delta ··········--·---···········- 27
Donner -···-·-···---··-····-··-·· 39
Doric ·········---·-'···········--- 66
El Centro ....................109
Fidelity -····---··-··········-·- 96
Fresno ·····----·-····-·········· 69
Granite ···············-·····-·· 94
Grass Valley·---···-··--···- 18
Howard ······--····-·---······- 14
Huntington Park ________ 127
Keystone ············-·---·--·· S6
La Purissima ·······-··--·-104
Los Angeles ----·-·········- 33
Marin ·-·····-··-·------········-.102
Mendocino ···---------······-- 88
Mill Valley --··-·····-·······108
Mission ·--··········-····-·--·· 79
Modesto ·····-·-····-·--··--···· 49

Amt.
$ S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
12.SO
S.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
2.SO
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
lS.00
lS.00
2.SO
10.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
S.00

Chapter
No.
Montebello ................. .119
Napa -······--····--------····-·-·· 30
Nevada ···---··----···---····--·· 6
Oakland ··--·-·-------·----··--· 36
Ontario ·--·-···---···-··-··--·_}OS
Palo Alto -··-··········---··· 93
Petaluma -···········-·-······· 22
Plumas .......................... 107
Pomona ........................ 76
Redondo ........................ 101
Riverside ...................... 67
Sacramento .................. 3
Salinas .......................... S9
San Francisco ............ 1
San Jacinto .................. 87
San Luis ...................... 62
Santa Cruz .................. 38
Searchlight .................. 133
Siloam .......................... 37
Sonora .......................... 2
So. Pasadena .............. 112
St. Helena .................. 63
Temple .......................... 41
Vacaville ...................... 81
Visalia .......................... 44
Washington ................ 13
Woodland ··············--·-·· 46

Amt.
$ S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
2.SO
10.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
20.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery

No.

Auburn ------·-·---··---------· S2
Bakersfield -------·-·----··-- 39
Berkeley -------···------------ 42
California -------------·---·-· 1

Amt.
$ 2.SO
10.00
10.00
2S.OO

Commandery

No.

Chico ---------------------------- 12
Colusa ·------------------·-·-·-· 24
El Dorado ·----------------- 4
Eureka ·····--------------------- 3S

Amt.
10.00
S.00
S.00
10.00

560

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Commandery
No.
Fresno .......................... 29
Gold.en Gate ................ 16
Marysville .................... 7
Mount Shasta ............ 32
Naval ............................ 19
Nevada.......................... 6
Oakland ........................ 11
Oroville ........................ 5
Pasadena ...................... 31
Red Bluff ........:............. 17
Riverside ...................... 28

Amt.
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
$10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50

Commandery
No.
Sacramento .................. 2
San Francisco ............ 41
San Jose ...................... 10
San Luis Obispo ........ 27
Santa Cruz .................. 44
Southern California.... 37
St. Bernard ................ 23
Vacaville ...................... 38
Visalia .......................... 26
Watsonville .................. 22
Woodland ...............,.... 21

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

Couneils, R. & S. M.
Co11ncil
No.
California .................... 2
King Solomon ............ 29
Oakland ........................ 12
Pasadena ...................... 16

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
10.00
5,00

No.
Council
Pomona ........................ 21
San Jose ...................... 20
Valley .......................... 20

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
5.00

Temple, A. A . 0. N. M. S.
Amt.
Islam · ....................:..:...................................................................................~ ....$100.00
Lodges of Perfection
Amt.
Lodge
No.
$25.00 Sacramento ..................
25.00 San Francisco ............
10.00 San Diego ....................
10.00

Amt.
$25.00
25.00 .
25.00

Pyramid, A. E. 0. S.
No.
San Luis Obispo................................................................................ 29

Amt.
$5.00

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
$25.00 Miguelito ......................176
10.00 Mill Valley ..................219
5.00 Ocean View ................111
10.00 San Rafael ..................215

Amt.
$ 5.00
20.00
5.00
20.00

No.
Lodge
California .................... 10
Fresno ..........................
Oakland ........................ 2
Peninsula .................... 14

Chapter
No.
Amapola .............:........119
Corona ..........................107
Golden Wave ..............103
Mercedes ......;...............126

Individuals and Miscellaneo11s
Breckenridge, F. J., Hollywood No. 355..........................................c.....$ 1.00
Burrows, Mr. and Mrs. Henry G., Coalinga, California.................... 20.00
Chamberlain, Lewis, Mission Lodge No. 169........................................ 100.00

561

East Bay Matrons' Association................................................................ 50.00
Hardesty, Fred C., Golden Gate Lodge No. 30...................................... 5.00
Masonic Club of Yosemite.......................................................................... 5.00
Masters, Wardens and Senior Deacons Club, 39th l>istrict.............. 10.00
Miguelito Circle ............................................................................................ 5.00
Montgomery, Wallace, Fidelity Chapter R. A. M. No. 2.................. 2.00
Peninsula Line Officers' Association, 28th District, 0. E. S ............. 5.00
Sternberg, Alex, H. S. Orme Lodge No. 458........................................ 1.00
Taylor, Mrs. Bertha E., San Francisco, California.............................. 4.00
Waters, A. R., Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57................................................ 5.00
Names of Residents-Decoto Home
Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home, the
date of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number of the
Lodges nominating them and the location of such Lodges, complete to
August 31, 1931.
MEN, 176. Average Age, 74.37
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Akerly, James C. S;........July 26, '31 Live Oak..:............. 61
Alderman, Alfred H .........Oct. 6, '26 Corinthian............ 9
Anderson, Alfred ..............June 1, '20 Gravel Range........ 59
Anderson, Julius.............. Aug. 19, '30 King Solomon......260
Ansley, James G...............Feb. 28, '26 Jonathan ..............545
Armantage, W~. L ......... Apr.19, '22 San Bernardino....348
Bader, Henry.................. Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon......260
Baker, Napoleon L .........May 25, '31 Waucoba ..............413
Bane, John L ................... Nov. 13, '29 Rockridge ............468
Bang, Anders ....................Jan. 29, '31 Fresno ..................247
Barkley, Martin K ......... Aug. 12, '31 Highland Park ....382
Barnes, Joshua D ...........June 10, '28 Golden Gate.......... 30
Barnes, Albert....................May 7, '28 Hawaiian .............. 21
Barnhisel, Chas. F .............Dec. 2, '28 Brooklyn ..............225
Basker, Solomon ...,........Sept. 30, '29 Mount Moriah...... 44
Battle, Jos. D .....................Dec. 9, '30 Stanislaus ............206
Barker, Harry W ...........July 23, '28 San Pedro ............332
Bailey, Wm. J ................. Dec. 25, '28 Callayomi ............282
Beck, Herman H ............. Aug. 28, '24 Nicolaus ................129
Berge, Carl T. E ........... Sept. 30, '26 West Gate ............335
Bernstein, Jacob A.........J une 26, '24 Berkeley ..............363
Bentley, Isam H ...............Jan. 31, '31 Oakdale ................275
Best, Willis A..................,July 12, '21 Consuelo ..............325
Blumenthal, Albert............Feb. 1, '30 Crockett ................139
Boehm, Hiram J ...............July 19, '31 Big Bear................617
Browne, John L .............Sept.11, '24 King Solomon......260

Town
Age
Oakland ............70
Marysville ........69·
Carnptonville ....80
San Francisco..87
San Francisco..69
S. Bernardino..79
San Francisco..67
Big Pine............79 ·
Oakland ............62
Fresno ..............72
Los Angeles......73
San Francisco..81
Honolulu ..........85
Oakland ............92
San Francisco..69
Modesto .........:..71
San Pedro ........54
Middletown ......72 ·
Wheatland ........77
Los Angeles......73
Berkeley ..........77
Oakdale ............71
Escondido .....:..83
San Francisco..77
Pine Knot ........68
San Francisco..77

562

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Admitted
Name
Buckley, Peter ................ May 21, '19 Hawaiian .............. 21
Bull, Clint L. .................... Aug. 11, '21 Moneta ..................405
Burtchael, Geo. T ........... June 12, '26 Oakland ................ 188
Bush, Elmer E .................Jan. 13, '30 Alturas ..................248
Burkett, Thos. R. ............Aug. 22, '24 Woodbridge ........ 131 .
Byrd, Thos. J ................,..Oct. 10, '25. Gravel Range ...... 59
Cambis, Emanuel............ Mar. 19, '23 Benicia .................. 5
Carden, Wm. L ............... Nov. 27, '30 Charter Rock ....... .410
Mariposa .............. 24
Catherwood, Frank H ..... Feb. 14, '31
Chase, Willis S ............... Mar. 19, '22 Turlock ................39S
Cheesebrough, Chas. E ... Oct. 11, '30 Pajaro .................. 110
Oosson, Harry J ........... _.. May 4, '31 Tuolumne ............ 8
Monterey ..............217
Cohn, Emil M .................. .Jan. 16, '31
Collins, Nelson W ......... Sept. 12, '19 Calistoga ..............233
Corse, John M ................... Mar. 1, '22 Tuscan ..................261
Cowan, Wm. H ...............June 27, '28 Fdendship ........... .210
Morgan Hil1 ........463
Cowan, John S ................ .Jan. 22, '28
Clemenson, Newton E .....J une 2, '28 . Marin ....................191
Clover, John A ................. Oct. 26, '29 Excelsior ..............166
Pacific ..................136
. Craig, David C. ................ Oct. 17, '27
Crill, Howard ....................Dec. 1, '28 Valley ....................135
Crossfield, Frank M ....... May 21, '27 Russian River ...... 181
Delzelle, Wm. R. .....;........Jan. 31, '26 Excelsior ..............166
DePenne, Frank L. ........ Mar. 19, '26 Moneta .................. 405
Dirks, John A. .................. Dec. 18, '29 So. San Fran.......212
Dodds, Thos ..................... Dec. 24, '28 Brooklyn ..............225
Redlands ..............300
Dolan, John Casper .......... Aug. 4, '31
Dowling, Geo. W ........... Mar. 15, '29 York ......................423
Hartley ................ 199
Drake, Oscar B ............... Dec. 18, '23
Elder, Geo. W ............... Sept. 18, '28 Corinthian ............ 9
Fender, -Andrew J ............. Dec. 5, '30 Northern Light....190
Fink, Conrad.................... Aug. 23, '12 Herman ................127
Fish, Chas. E ..................... Apr. 2, '30 Vesper .................. 84
Foltz, George .................. Aug. 19, '30 Phoenix ................ 178
Franck, Isadore................ Jan. 10, '16 La Parfaite Union 17
Freeman, Isaac L ........... May 17, '18 Elk Grove ........... .173
Gallet, Henry W .............Jan. 24, '31 Excelsior .............. 166
Gibbs, John W ................... Aug. 5, '30 Berkeley ..............363
San Joaquin .......... 19
Gifford, Seymour C.......June 29, '31
Goodrich, · Edward .... ,....... Aug. 8, '31 Fresno ..................247
La Mesa................407
Gleave, Samuel J ........... Mar. 28, '31
·Gordon, Luther D ........... Feb. 12, '28 Carquinez ............337
Pacific .................. 136
Gough, Wm. G............... May 23, '25
Gray, Wm. S ..................... Mar. 8, '31 Santa Rosa ............ 57

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
Honolulu ..........84
Los Angeles ...... 54
Oakland ............77
Alturas ..............69
Woodbridge ....82
Camptonville ....97
Benicia ..............85
Berkeley ............65
Mariposa ..........73
Turlock ............81
Watsonville ......83
Tuolumne ........62
Monterey ..........63
Calistoga ..........69
Williams ..........86
San Jose ..........77
Morgan Hill ....77
San Rafael... ..... 74
San Francisco.. 72
San Francisco..71
Linden ..............70
Windsor ............81
San Francisco.. 72
Los Angeles ......57
So. San Fran ... 76
Oakland ............81
Redlands ..........66
Watts ................74
Lakeport .......... 78
Marysville ........80
Mill ville ............68
San Francisco..92
Red Bluff .......... 79
S. Bernardino..65
San Francisco..83
Elk Grove ........72
San Francisco..65
Berkeley ..........71
Stockton ...,......75
Fresno .............. 76
La Mesa ..........65
Crockett ............76
San Francisco..72
Santa Rosa ........ 74

Name
Admitted
Green, Phillip .................... Feb. 9, '31
Griffin, Francis L ...........June 27, '30
Guerra, John ....................Aug. 19, '24
Hardage, James M ......... Mar. 13, '17
Harms, Herman .............. Mar. 16, '31
Harpster, Harry W ......... Nov. 5, '30
Harrison, John .................. Sept. 5, '30
Harris, Ranse B ............. Mar. 26, '24
Harris, Louis ....................Jan. 13, '23
Hathaway, John S ........... Aug. 7, '30
Haupt, Oscar....................June 28, '30
Haviland, Emerson ........ May 10, '31
Haydon, John H ............. Sept. 20, '27
Hazard, Emil J ...............Aug. 10, '25
Helms, George L ........... Mar. 19, '31
Henderson, Clarence F ... Mar. 11, '31
Herford, Wm. B ............... May 9, '31
Hirlinger, Chas. M ......... Aug. 30, '31
Hocker, Jos. L ................. Sept. 5, '26
Holmes, Chas. T .............June 16, '30
Hotchkiss, M. E .............June 11, '30
Humphreys, Thos ............. Mar. 9, '30
Hyde, George.................... Dec. 22, '30
Jack, David .. :.....................June 1, '31
Jacobs, Francis J ............. Feb. 16, '23
Jensen, Alfred T ............. May22, '25
Johnson, Wm. M ............... Dec. 6, '30
Johnson, Daniel F ......... Sept. 16, '29
Journal, Philip S .............Mar. 6, '27
Kellogg, Irving M ............. Dec. 2, '30
Kennedy, Daniel..............June 16, '29
Kesner, James P ............. Nov.14, '23
Lagomarsino, G............... May 12, '22
Lee, Abraham .................... May 1, '30
Lehmann, August H ....... Dec. 14, '28
Lockwood, Tom ..............Feb. 13, '28
Loughery, Robert J .........June 15, '31
Lund, Andrew J ............. Sept. 29, '27
MacMurdo, Wirt R. ........ Feb. 23-, '25
Martin, Benj. R ............... May 15, '24
Matson, Martin B ........... Dec. 15, '27
Maxwell, John .............. ::Nov. 28, '29
McCulley, Wm. B ............. June 2, '31

563

Lodge
No.
Town
Age
San Miguel ......... .285 San Miguel ......77
Summit ................112 Knights Ferry..71
Francis Drake ......376
So. San f ran ...78
Sunset ....................352 Los Angeles......90
Acacia ..................438 Los Angeles ...... 78
Tehachapi ............313 Tehachapi ........64
Hollenbeck .......... 319 Los Angeles......72
Downey ................220 Downey ....... :.... 79
Los Angeles .......... 42
Los Angeles...... 55
Van Nuys ............. .450 Los Angeles ......86
Naval .................... 87 Vallejo ..............68
Temple City..........612 Temple City......72
Hesperian ............264
Santa Maria ....94
San Jose ................ 10 San Jose ..........67
Presidio ................ 354 San Francisco.. 59
Pyramid .............. 562 San Francisco.. 52
West Gate ............335 Los Angeles ......78
Bell ........................481
Bell .................... 57
Summit ................ 112 Knights Ferry..86
Mt. Diablo........... .448 Concord ............ 73
Santa Cruz ............ 38 Santa Cruz ......68
Forbestown .......... 50 Forbestown ......84
Mill Valley .......... 356 Mill Valley ...... 72
McKinley ............347 Richmond ........67
Marin ....................191
San Rafael... .....84
Palestine .............. 351
Los Angeles ......68
Fresno ..................247
Fresno .............. 70
Dinuba ..................385 ·Dinuba ..............80
Sequoia ..................349 Oakland ............80
Chula Vista..........626
Chula Vista ......76
Howard ................ 37 Yreka ................94
Nicolaus ............... .129 Wheatland ........86
Speranza Italiana.. 219 San Francisco.. 75
Pacific Grove .........331 Pacific Grove ....82
Santa Monica ......307 Santa Monica..72
Pacific ..................136 San Francisco..79
Amity .. :................. 370 San Francisco ..77
San Joaquin ....:..... 19 Stockton ..........75
Bakersfield ......... .224 Bakersfield ......79
Santa Cruz .......·..... 38
Santa Cruz ......66
Eden ...................... 113 San Leandro ....74
Hollywood .......... 355
Hollywood ......68
South Gate............320 Los Angeles ...... 78

564

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
McDonald, Frank ..........Nov. 21, '26
McRae, Alexander ..........Oct. 20, '30
Merrill, Chas. H .............July 29, '30
Mensch, Wm. A...............June 17, '27
Mesler, Orlando A...........Apr. 5, '27
Meuser, Alfonzo ............Sept. 19, '26
Miller, Samuel C............. May 16, '29
Miller, John W.-..............Jan. 22, '30
Miller, George N ............. Apr. 30, '30
Molera, Jos. R. ..................Mar. 1, '30
Morris, Harry B.............N ov. 28, '30
Morrison, George D.......Mar. 20, '30
Murden, Robt. J ............. Mar. 26, '28
Nannestad, Henrik............ Mar. 8, '23
Newell, Eben P .............•.Oct. 26, '27
Newman, Adolph ..............June 4, '29
Nicholas, Nahum............ Mar. 18, '28
Norton, Samuel Mc!....... Dec. 15, '30
North; Edwin B................. Apr. .2, '29
Otto, Fred A..................... Feb. 23, '30
Onslow, Frank....................]an. 8, '31
Owen, Wm. L.................Aug.12, '22
Plowman, Alfred R .........Jan. 17, '30
Potter, Loyal A...............Jan. 21, '30
Powell, John L.................July 13, '31
Price, Thos. G.................Oct. 12, '25
Righetti, Robt. .................. Mar. 9, '18
Risher, Chas. B...............Aug. 24, '29
Robinson, Henry J ...........Nov. 8, '23
Robinson, James M.........Jan. 21, '28
Roberts, Jos. L .................Jan. 28, '25
Rowland, Neil~ P ............. Feb. 25, '28
Rolfe, Earnest.....,...........:Oct. 17, '23
Sawvelle, Charles............ A.ug. 30, '30
Severance, Frank B.......May 29, '28
Shapiro, George H ........... Apr. 6, '31
Smith, Roland A...............Jan. 29, '27
Smith, Wm. C................. Apr. 25, '28
Smith, Harry B...............June 30, '28
Smith, Robert ....................Apr. 4, '27
Sollner, John B...............Feb. 14, '30
Standeford, Wm. B ....... Nov. 12, '29
Starkweather, R. E ......... May 28, '29
Stevens, Fred A ................~Oct. 4, '28

Lodge
No.
South Gate............320
Laurel ············--···245
East Gate ...........:..290
Hollywood ..........355
Olive Branch-.....269
.Palo Alto -······-····346
Mount Diablo ......448
El Dorado ............ 26
Selma -···············--•277
La Parfaite Union 17
La Fayette ............126
Golden State ..- ....358
Alcatraz ................244
Doric ...................216
Occidental ............ 22
Antioch ..:.............175
Speranza Italiana 219
Hammonton ........433
Vesper .................. 84
Lassen ..................149
Mission ..................169
Mission ..................169
Consuelo ..............325
Union .................... 58
Durant ..................268
Orosi ....................383
Pentalpha ............202
Redlands ..............300
East Gate .............290
La Mesa ..............407
Porterville ..........303
Southwest ............283
Hermann ..............127
Bethlehem ............453
Mendocino •........... 179
Oakland ................188
Callayomi ..............282
Oakland ................188
Oriental ................144
Mountain View....194
Sisson ....................310
Live Oak. ..............: 61
Corinthian ............ 9
Union .................... SS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
Los Angeles......77
Willows ............67
Los Angeles......70
Hollywood ......82
Tulare _............80
Palo Alto ..........77
Concord ............85
Placerville ........85
Selma ...........'..._75
San Francisco..64
Sebastopol ........67
Los Angeles......67
Oakland ............65
San F~ancisco..85
San Francisco..75
Antioch ...:........87
San Francisco..71
Hammonton ....79
Red Bluff ........74
Susanvi:lle ........65
San Frartcisco..64
San Francisco..72
Escondido _......78
Sacramento ......72
Berkeley ............79
Orosi ................81
Los Angeles......79
Redlands ..........67
Los Angeles......81
La Mesa ............84
Porterville ........82
National City....89
San Francisco..71
San Francisco..65
Mendocino ........78
Oakland ............58
Middleton ........71
Oakland ....:.....-71
San Francisco..77
Mt. View..........76
Mt. Shasta ......71
Oakland ............64
Marysville ........67
Sacramento ......71

565

L odge
N o.
Apollo ..................396
Reading .........:......254
Excelsior ..............166
Fairfax ................ 556
Live Oak................ 61
Abell ......................146
Hammonton ........433
Palo Alto ..............346
Covina ..................334
Long Beach..........327
Laurel ..................245
S. W. Hackett......574
LaParfaite Union 17
Amity ....................370
Pomona ................246
Petaluma ..............180
Mount Oso............460
University ............394
Oak Grove...........215

Town
A ge
Alameda ............83·.
Redding .;.........•76
San Francisco..69
Fairfax ······-····75
Oakland ............80
Ukiah ······-·- ····74
Hammonton ....71
Palo Alto ...._..80
Covina ..............82
Long Beach ......79
W illows ..........72
San Diego ......:.74
San Francisco..77
San Francisco.. 52
P omona ..•.........75
P etaluma ..........70
Tracy ................73
Los Angeles......69
Alameda ..;.........81

WOMEN, 150. Average Age, 74.24
Name
Admitted
L odge
No.
Alexander, Ida E .............Jan.13, '30 El Centro..............384
Ames, Clementina H .........Feb. 2, '31 Mission _..............169
Anderson, Mary ]......... Aug. 12, '28 Vallejo .................. 87
Armantage, Tneresa A.....Jan. 5, ' 19 Needles ................326
Artz, Mary Ann..............Oct. 27, '26 Foothill ................564
Bane, Florence A...........N ov. 13, '29 Rockridge ............468
Barnes, Sallie ....................May 7, '28 Hawaiian -..............21
Becker, Elizabeth A ...- ....Jan. 5, '31 Santa Ana ............241
Beebee, Annie L ...............Mar. 1, '28 Porterville .............303
Bell, Augusta R. ..............Apr. 21, '29 San Francisco......360
Bemis, Ellen J .................June26, '29 Dinuba ..................385
Berge, Lilly B................. Sept. 30, '26 West Gate ..........335
Bernstein, Cornelia ........June 26, '24 Berkeley ..............363
Bidgood, Laura P .............Jan. 15, '28 Elysian ................418
Birmingham, Isabel ........May 19, '29 California ............ 1
Blinn, Sophia W ....... ,~.....Jan. 20, '30 Truckee ................200
Blumenthal, Elizabeth B...July 6, '27 San Joaquin ........ 19
Boyd, Isabelle Louise....May 25, '25 Mount Moriah....- 44
Bradley, Nannie ,............:Apr. 30, '25 Oriental ................144
Brassfield, Maggie E .....Feb. 11, '28 Santa Barbara...... 192
Brown, Mary L.................Oct. 7, '28 San Mateo............226

Town
Age
El Centro ..........73
San Francisco..69
Vallejo ..............76
Needles ..............74
Oakland ............83
Oakland ............66
H onolulu ..........70
Santa Ana ........74
Porterville ........80
San Francisco..81
Dinuba ..............81
Los Angeles......77 .
Berkeley ............72
Los Angeles......81
San Francisco..77
Truckee ............71
Stockton ............73
San Francisco..75
San Francisco..63
Santa Barbara..77
San Mateo ....,...80

Name
Admitted
Swaffield, Thos. W ...........Feb. 4, '29
Swedburg, Eric ................Oct. 19, '29
Taylor, George McC.......July 14, '25
Tillinghast, Jos. H ......._Aug. 14, '28
Trenschel, August F ..... Sept. 18, '25
Viles, Charleton H .........Oct. 24, '29
Walk, Harding L...........May 26, '31
Walker, Charles C...........Jan. 21, '30
Warner, Williain............Mar. 31, '25
Watson, Matthew P .......May 16, '25
Waugh, Oscar .................. Feb. 18, '30
Wigginton, James W .......July 15, '29
Wilhelm, Frederick G.....Oct. 25, '27
Witcosky, John A........... Sept. 16, '30
Wildman, William ............Oct. 6, '19
Willard, Thomas ............ Aug. 23, '27
Wood, Uriah s............... Aug.21,'31
Yarrington, James T .......Feb. 26, '29
Young," Lars G................... Apr. l, '23

566

GRAND . LUDGlli 01'' CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Brown, Rosalind V ....... Mar. 27, '24 Natoma ................ 64
Burtchael, Gertrude M ...Juri.e 12, '26 Oakland ................188
Carden, Alice M ............. Nov. 27, '30 Charter Rock. .......410
Carlson, Laura L ............. Feb. 10, '20 Excelsior ..............166
Carpenter, Tillie C......... May 30, '30 King Solomon......260
Cash, Anna ..........................July 7, '22 · South Gate............320
Cash, Mary E .............,.....Oct. 25, '26 San Jose ................ 10
Cass, Mary E .....................July 7, '28 Sisson ....................310
Chilcott, Marion E ........... Oct. 14, '30 'Redwood City ......168
Cohn, Sarah ...................... Sept. 8, '22 Los Angeles.......... 42
Collister, Mary L .............Jan. 19, '30 Vitruvius .............. 145
Cook, Becky L ................. Mar. 27, '30 Hollenbeck ..........319
Cosner, Lydia C.................May 3, '30 Colusa ..................240
Cowley, Cerita ]............. Sept. 18, '25 Berkeley ..............363
Crawley, Nellie G ........... Dec. 19, '27 Willits ...................365
Crill, Flora A..................... Dec. 1, '28 Valley ..................135
Davis, Eliza A. ................July 26, ;17 Keith ....................187
Davis, Grace C.................July 25, '16 Naval .................... 87
Dickson, Alice W .;.........June 11, '21 Pacific ..................136
Dougherty, Lucy H..:......Apr. 3, '26 Parnassus ............388
Dowling, Emily ..............Mar. 15, '29 York ......................423
Dryden, Sarah S ............. Feb. 26, '26 Tyrian ..................439
Dunn, Annie C.................J une 22, '25 Oroville ............."'103
Elder, Ellena R...............Sept. 18, '28 Corinthian ............ 9
Estey, Catherine A ......... Apr. 20, '27 Benicia .................. 5·
Evans, Mary J ................. Dec. 28, '23 Whittier ..............323
Fanshawe, Mary E.........Oct. 22, '29 Los Angeles............42
Felter, Eliza D .................July 24, '23 King Solomon......260
Fortriede, August.. .......... Apr. 24, '25 Crockett ..............139
Foster, Nellie G...............June21, '30 Berkeley ................363
Garland, Susan C........... Aug. 18, '25 Consuelo ..............325
Gates, Adelia E................. Mar. 1, '31 Educator ..............554
Gifford, Kathryn ............June 29, '31 San Joaquin .......... 19
Gordon, Isabelle C...........Feb. 12, '28 Carquinez ............337
Gordon, Mary Jane ........July 13, '27 Board of Relief...___
Grant, Hattie H .................Feb. 6, '22 San Jose .............. 10
Gregory, Ada M ............. N ov. 12, '26 Mizpah ..................378
Hall, Maria A................. Aug. 22, '19 Live Oak .............. 61
Hamerly, Mary ..................Jan. 8, '21 Corinthian ~........... 9
Hazard, Marie ................ Aug. 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10
Heith, Catherine..............Oct. 16, '10 Fresno ..................247
Hibbard, Elizabeth ......,.Mar. 22, '30 Oakland ................188
Higgins, Lillie W ........... Mar. 15, '29 Fort Bragg ..........361
Hill, Barbara M ...............July 26, '27 Brooklyn ..............225

Town
Age
Folsom City......76
Oakland ............60
Berkeley ............61
San Francisco..68
San Francisco..68
Los Angeles......72
San Jose ............82
Mt. Shasta ........75
Redwood ..........82
Los Angeles......74
Bloomfield ........77
Los Angeles......7S
Colusa ..............81
Berkeley ............75
Willits ..............71
Linden ..............64
Gilroy ................84
Vallejo .............:77
San Francisco..71
San Francisco..70
Watts ................82
Manteca ............90
Oroville ............84
Marysville ........72
Benicia ..............71
Whittier ............77
Los Angeles......91
San Francisco..69
San Francisco..54
Berkeley ............68
Escondido ........82
San Francisco..74
Stockton ......-....69
Crockett ..........c.57
San Francisco..82
San Jose ..........58
Los Angeles......67
Oakland .:..........95
Marysville ........77
San J ose ..........61
Fresno ..............85
Oakland ............74
Fort Bragg ......70
Oakland ............68

Name
Admitted
Hipkins, Sue B...............Mar. 16, '30
Hodgson, Mary A..........:Apr. 19, '29
Hubbard, Carrie L .........Mar. 8, '28
Huisman, Charlotte..........Jan. 19, '29
Humiston, Isafene..........Sept. 11, '24
Hyde, May........................Dec. 22, '30
Jack, Mary..............:...........June 1, '31
Jackson, May R.............Aug. 27, '25
Jacobs, Martha E ........... Feb. 24, '23
Jeffries, Viola H............... N ov. 8, '23
Jenkins, Mary E .............May 21, '31
Johnson, Hattie E ...........July 25, '30
Johnson, Julia H .............Aug. 23, '31
Kalfus, Sarah W .............Jan. 29, '19
Katzenstein, Jennie..........Sept. 8, '30
Kellogg, Lillie F ..-............. Dec. 2, '30
Kimbali, Camelia L....... Sept. 19, '26
Lane, Laura M ..;................Oct. 2, '26
Langworthy, Martha E ...July 23, '26
Laufman, Anna .............. Aug. 27, '24
Lawrence, Lucy P ......... Nov. 21, '16
Lee, Alice L.......................May 1, '30
Lee, Sarah V .....................Jan. 21, •31 ·
Leonard, Lois ....................June 7, '30
Lightner, Sarah J .............Oct. 9, '28
Loughery, Adelaide G ...June 15, '31
MacDuffie, Dorothy F ..... Mar. 7, '30
Mast, Frances C............. Aug. 31, '12
Matthews, Louise L.........Aug. 7, '22
McGavic, Georgann........ Mar. 11, '31
McGuire, Mary................July 14, '26
McKinnon, Mary A .......Dec. 31, '01
Meyer, Mary.....:..............Apr. 13, '28
Mills, Kate D .................Mar. 21, '28
Mitchell, Eliza.................. Nov. 3, '29
Morrison, Louise B....... Mar. 20, '30
Newman, Susanna ............June 4, '29
Nielsen, Mary V ............:Nov. 21, '27
Nourse, Florence A ......... Dec. 7, '26
Nutter, Martha L .......:... Mar. 25, '23
Nyhuis, Marie H .........:.Mar. 21, '25 ·
Orman, Ella J .................June21, '25
Pankow, Catherine.......... Apr. 29, '29

567

Lodge
No. _
ToWJi
Age
Thousand Oaks....478 Berkeley ............86
Santa Rosa............ 57 Santa Rosa ......82.
San Joaquin.......... 19 Stockton ............73
Fairview ..............629 Inglewood ........62
Mountain View....194 Mt. View ..........77
Mill Valley ..........356 Mill Valley ......59
McKinley ............347 Richmond ........64
Lompoc ................262 Lompoc ............72
Marin ...:................191 San Rafael ......72
Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles......79
Durant ..................268 Berkeley ............61:
So. San Fran.......212 So. San Fran...70
Patterson·..............488 Patterson ..........61.
San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ..........68
Penrhyn ................258 Penrhyn ............68
Chula Vista ..........626 Chula Vista ......75
San Francisco......360 San Francisco..66
McKinley ............347 Richmond ..........83
San Pedro ............332 San Pedro ........61
Sincerity .............. 132 Greenville ........80
Board of Relief .......... San Francisco..69
Pacific Grove....73
Pacific Grove ......331
Eucalyptus ..........243 Haywards ........74
Oroville ................103 Oroville .........~ ..78
Starr King ..........344 San Francisco..71
Amity ....................370 San Francisco..72
F oothill ................564 Oakland ............67
Yosemite .............. 99 Merced ..............86
Yount .................... 12 Napa ..................76
Board of Trustees...... San Francisco.:81
Alcatraz ................244 Oakland ............77
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton· ............83.
Acorn ....................494 Oakland ............77.
Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ......71
Fresno ..:...............247 F resno ......,.....,.82
Gofden Stat~ ......,.358 Los Angeles......67
Antioch ................ 175 Antioch · .,..........69
Santa Cruz .....:.... 38 Santa Cruz ......71 .
Natoma ................ 64 Folsom City......76
East Gate ............290 Los Ang.eles......76
Naval .................... 87 Vallejo ..............81
Burlingame ..........400 Burlingame ... ~-~82
Crockett ................139 San Francisco..66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN? LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Age
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Name
Peck, Cassie McC...........Jan. 18, '28 Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ....83
Peck, Sarah A. .................. Nov. 4, '25 Madera ................280 Madera ............73
Percival, Hannah D .......Dec. 29, '29 Liberty ..................299 Santa Clara ......88
Perry, Mary C.................May 12, '30 Mendocino ............ 179 Mendocino ........64
Philip, Margaret F .........Feb. 25, '30 Mission ................169 San Francisco..74
Plummer, Frances E .....Sept. 21, '28 .Bay View ............401 Oakland ............86
Pohlman, Mary...............July 15, '21
Porterville ............303 · Porterville ........72
Proctor, Caroline A ......... May 5, '30 Pajaro ..................110 Watsonville ......96
Pron, lrtma R. G...............Feb. 5, '15 King Solomon......260 San Francisco..72
Rackerby, Elizabeth ....•. Mar. 29, '30 Crockett .•..............139 San Francisco..73
Rassette, Sarah B........... Mar. 12, '31 San Francisco......360 San Francisco..73
Reid, Katherine ............•.Sept. 11, '28 Porterville ............303 Porterville ........77
Oakland ............81
Richardson, Julia A.......Mar. 13, '16 Live Oak .............. 61
Risdon, Imogene B ...........Feb. 3, '27 Consuelo ..............325 Escondido ........78
Risher, Louise E .............Aug. 24, '29 Redlands ..;...........300 Redlands ..........59
Rogers, Leonora ................Oct. 6, '25 King David's........209 S. Luis Obispo..67
Rowell, Jane·....................June 10, '22 Golden Gate.......... 30 San Francisco..86
Sawyer, E11a B......:........ Sept. 18, '13 Natoma ................ 64 Folsom City......81
Schwain, Mary..................Jan. 22, '25 Bakersfield ..........224 Bakersfield ......77
Seiler, Alice C.................Aug. 24, '31 Mt. Moriah .......... 44 San Francisco..74
Shearin, Eliza E .............Mar. 16, '31 Pajaro ..................110 Watsonville ......76
Southwick, Marion E .....July 24, '30 Alameda .~ ..............167 Centerville ........79
Stokes, Mary M ...............Feb. 17, '26 East Gate..............290 Los Angeles......74
Surface, Emma .............. Aug. 19, '16 lone ........................ 80 Ione ....................78
Tate, Sarah Ann............ Aug. 29, '31 Brooklyn ..............225 Oakland ............68
Templeton, Phoebe ........Aug. 30, '26 San Mateo ..........226 San Mateo ........89
Terre11, Cynthia E ......... Sept. 15, '27 Yosemite .............. 99 Merced ..............76
Thurling, Angeline..........Dec. 22, '26 Argonaut ..............461 San Francisco..77
Tilley, Sadie G...................July 6, '27 Bay View ............401 Oakland ............76
Truax, Mary E ............... Aug. 27, '31 Howard ................ 37 Yreka ..~.........:...72
Walker, Emma O .............June 1, '28 Roseville ...............222 Roseville ...~ ......73
Walton, Ida M.................June 22, '25 Oakland ................188 · Oakland ............72 .
Waterhouse, Flora E ..... Apr. 20, '29 Oroville ................103 Oroville ............69
Wehmer, Anna A ........... Aug. 31, '22 Westlake ..............392 Los Angeles......74
West, Henrietta B...........May 10, '30 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ......79
West, Eva L ........................Aug. 9, '23 Mission ................169 San Francisco..77
White, Martha J ...............Oct. 2, '30 Natoma ................ 64 Folsom City......79
Wilber, Anna ....................Mar. 8, '30 Maui .......................1172 Kahului ............63
Williams, Laura A ......... Mar. 22, '25 Chico ....................111 Chico ................70
Withers, Phoebe..............June 13, '27 East Belt ..............391 Tuolumne ........7,8
Wootten, Mary A ...........Dec. 26, '26 Mill Valley ..........356 Mill Valley ......85
Yarrington, Grace M .....Feb. 26, '29 University ............394 Los Angeles......61

Outside Relief-Adults

568

569

Monthly
Name ·
Lodge
allowance
Date began
· Dec.,' 1928 John J. Terry and wife........... Western Star No. 2............$40.00
Feb., 1931 Mary J. Wilgeroth.................. Hawaiian No. 21................ 25.00
May, 1931 Wm. A. MacLeod....................EI Dorado No. 26................ 30.00
Jan., 1931 Emma C. Prosser.................... Martinez No. 41-................ 30.00
May, 1929 Silas A. Williams.................... Forbestown No. 50............ 30.00
Jan;, 1927 Rebecca A. Sherwood............ Naval No. 87........................ 30.00
June, 1925 Francis M. Jack...................... Chico No. 111...................... 30.00
July, 1931 Robert A. Martin.................... Eden No. 113........,............. 25.00
Mar., 1924 G. W. Forsythe........................ La Fayette. No. 126...........• 30.00
June, 1931 Bert L. Whitehead.................. Woodbridge No. 131.......... 15.00 ·
Aug., 1930 Kittie M. White...................... Excelsior No. 166.•••.......... 25.00
Sept., 1930 Mary E. Grant.......................... Santa Barbara No. 192...... 20.00
Feb., 1929 Adolph Isaac .,..........................Doric No. 216...................... 30.00
Dec., 1930 Addie Cohn...........................-Monterey No. 217..........,... 30.00
July, 1928 Louis W . Smith........................ Bakersfield No. 224............ 20.00
Oct., 1926 Rebecca E. High...................... Magnolia No. 242................ 30.00
Dec., 1930 James S. Smithson.................. Reading No. 254.................. 20.00
Feb., 1931 Iva B. Llewellyn......................Reading No. 254.................. 30.00
Oct., 1925 George W. Buchanan.............. Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
June, 1929 James A. Bowen...................... Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
"Feb., 1927 Cora Lee Be1U1ett.................... So. California No. 278.:.... 30.00
Nov., 1929 Wm. P. Marshall.................... Maxwell No. 288................ 25.00
April, 1930 . J. M. Ferguson and wife......:.Silver Gate No. 296............ 50.00
Mar., 1928 Walter J. Smith...................... Sisson No. 310.................... 40.00
Nov., 1923 Daniel R. Ballinger................ Needles No. 326.................. 30.00
Nov., 1930 Margaret K. Williams............ Fruitvale No. 336................ 30.00
June, 1930 H. Truitt................................._Fruitvale No. 336................ 30.00
Jan., 1929 John M .. Keeley........................ Sequoia No. 349.........,........ 30.00
May, 1931 Theodore Wetzel, Sr............... Presidio No. 354.................. 30.00
May, 1931 Laura C. Wetzel...................... Presidio No. 354.................. 30.00
June, 1929 Wm. T. Huff............................ Ocean Park No. 369.......... 25.00
Oct., 1925 Nathaniel Black........................ Palos Verdes No. 389........ 30.00
Aug., 1925 James E. Adams...........,.......... Perris No. 411.................... 20.00
Feb., 1931 Wm. H. Corbett....................... Exeter No. 424.................... 25.00
Dec., 1929 John W. Moore and wife...... Exeter No. 424.................... 40.00
Mar., 1929 George F. Geibel...................... Fairmount No. 435.............. 30.00
Feb., 1931 Mrs. Wm. Judd........................ Sunrise No. 522.................. 12.50
Aug., 1930 Harriet M. Sutton.................. Progressive No. .578.......... 30.00
July, 1931 Robert E. Mims and wife...... Citrol No. 656............:......... 30.00
Sept., 1920 Guy Fallai.................................. Silver Gate No. 296............ 30.00
April, 1931 Martha J. Snyder............... _Lassen No. 149.................... 20.00
July, 1931 Edward H. Silsby.................... Palos Verdes No. 389........ 20.00
Feb., 1930 Clara Scott............................._So. California No. 278...... 15.00

570

PROCEEDINGS OF TllE

Admitted during the year, Men 47
Name
Admitted
Akerly, James C. S .........July 26, '31
Baker, Napoleon I........... May 25, '31
Bang, Anders ....................Jan. 29, '31
Barkley, Martin K ......... Aug. 12, '31
Battle, Jos. D ..................... Dec. 9, '30
Bentley, Isam H ............... Jan. 31, '31
Boehm, Hiram J ............ .]uly 19, '31
Carden, Wm. L ............... Nov. 27, '30
Catherwood, Frank H ..... Feb. 14, '31
Cheesebrough, Chas. E ... Oct. 11, '30
Closson, Harry J ............... May 4, '31
Chenoweth, James M ....... Jan. 31, '31
Cohn, Emil M ................... Jan. 16, '31
Dolan, John C................... Aug. 4, '31
Fender, Andrew ] ............. Dec. 5, '30
Gallet, Henry W ............ .]art. 24, '31
Gifford, Seymour C. ......June 29, '31
Goodrich, Edward ............ Aug. 8, '31
Gleave, Samuel J ........... Mar. 28, '31
Gray, Wm. S ..................... Mar. 8, '31
Green, Phillip...................... Feb. 9, '31
Harms, Herman.............. Mar. 16, '31
Harpster, Harry W ......... Nov. 5, '30
Harrison, John .................. Sept. 5, '30
Haviland, Emerson.......... May 10, '31
Haslehurst, Alvinza 0 ... Mar. 18, '31
Helms, George L. ............ Mar. 19, '31
Henderson, Clarence F ... Mar. 11, '31
·Herford, Wm. B............... May 9, '31
Hirlinger, Chas. M ......... Aug. 30, '31
Hyde, George.................... Dec. 22, '30
Jack, David ........................June 1, '31
Johnson, Wm. M ............... Dec. 6, '30
Kellogg, Irving M .............Dec. 2, '30
Loughery, Robert ]......... June 15, '31
McCulley, Wm. B............. June 2, '31
McRae, Alexander .......... Oct. 20, '30
Morris, Harry B ............. Nov. 28, '30
Norton, Samuel Mcl....... Dec. 15, '30
Onslow, Frartk................... .]an. 8, '31
Powell, 'John L.................July 13, '31
Shapiro, George H: .......... Apr. 6, '31

L odge
No.
Live Oak .............. 61
Waucoba ............. .413
Fresno ..................247
Highland Park ....382
Stanislaus ............206
Oakdale ............... .275
Big Bear ..............617
Charter Rock. .......410
Mariposa .............. 24
Pajaro ................. .110
Tuolumne ............ 8
La Fayette .......... 126
Monterey .............. 217
Redlands ..............300
Northern Light.... 190
Excelsior .............. 166
San Joaquin ........ 19
Fresno ..................247
La Mesa ..............407·
Santa Rosa .......... 57
San Miguel ..........285
Acacia ..................438
Tehachapi ............313
Hollenbeck ..........319
Temple City ........612
Sequoia ..................349
Presidio ................354
Pyramid ................ 562
West Gate ............335
Bell ........................481
Mill Valley ..........356
McKinley ............347
Fresno ..................247
Chula Vista ........626
Amity ....................370
South Gate ..........320
Laurel ..................245
La Fayette ............ 126
Hammonton · ........433
Mission ................169
Durant ... :...~~ .........268
Oakland ........ :: ......188.

571

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF01lNIA

Town
Age
Oakland ............70
Big Pine ..........79
Fresno ·..........:...72
Los Angeles ......73
Modesto ........:...71
Oakdale ............71
Pine Knot ........68
Berkeley ............65
Mariposa ..........73
Watsonville ......83
Tuolumne ........62
Sebastopol ........85
Monterey ..........63
Redlands ..........66
Millville ............68
San Francisco..65
Stockton ..........75
Fresno ..............76
La Mesa ............65
Santa Rosa ......74
San Miguel ... :..77
Los Angeles ......78
Tehachapi ........64
Los Angeles ......72
Temple City...... 72
Oakland ............70
San Francisco .. 59
San Francisco.. 52
Los Angeles ...... 78
Bell ....................57
Mill Valley ......72
Richmond ..........67
Fresno .............. 70
Chula Vista ......76
San Francisco.. 77
Los Angeles ......78
Willows ............67
Sebastopol .. ,.....67
Hammonton ....79
San Francisco..64
Berkeley ............ 79
Oakland ............58

Name
Admitted
Shearin, Daniel T ........... Mar. 16, '31
Smith, Orville A............. May 17, '31
Walk, Harding L........... May 26, '31
Witcosky, John A. .......... Sept. 16, '30
Wood, Uriah S ............... ~ug. 21.'31

Lodge
No.
Pajaro ................... 110
Alcatraz ............... .244
Hammonton ....... .433
Amity ....................370
Mount Oso ......... .460

Town
Age
Watsonville ......76
Oakland ............68
Hammonton ....71
San Francisco.. 52
Tracy ................73

Admitted during the year, Women 22
Name
Admitted
Ames, Clementina H .........Feb. 2, '31
Becker, Elizabeth A. ..........Jan. 5, '31
Carden, Alice M............. Nov. 27, '30
Chilcott, Marion E ...........Oct. 14, '30
Gates, Adelia E ..................Mar. 1, '31
Gifford, Kathryn ..............June 29, '31
Haslehurst, Minette........ Mar. 18, '31
Hyde, May........................ Dec. 22, '30
Jack, Mary..........................June 1, '31
Jenkins, Mary E ............. May 21, '31
Johnson, Julia H ............. Aug. 23, '31
Katzenstein, Jennie .......... Sept. 8, '30
Kellogg, Lillie F ............... Dec. 2, '30
Lee, Sarah V .................... .]an. 21, '31
Loughery, Adelaide G..... June 15, '31
McGavic, Georgann........ Mar. 11, '31
Rassette, Sarah B........... Mar. 12, '31
Seiler, Alice C. ................Aug. 24, '31
Shearin, Eliza E ............. Mar. 16, '31
Tate, Sarah Ann ............ Aug. 29, '31
Truax, Mary E ............... Aug. 27, '31
White, Martha ] ...............Oct. 2, '30

Lodge
No .
Town
Age
Mission ................169 San Francisco..69
Santa Ana ............241 Santa Ana ........74
Charter Rock. .......410 Berkeley ............61
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood ..........82
Educator ..............554 San Francisco..74
San Joaquin ........ 19 · Stockton ............ 69
Sequoia ................349 Oakland ............71
Mill Valley ..........356 Mill Valley ...... 59
McKinley ..............347 Richmond .......... 59
Durant ..................268 Berkeley ............61
Patterson ..............488 Patterson ..........61
Penrhyn ................258 Penrhyn ............68
Chula Vista ..........626 Chula Vista ......75
Eucalyptus ............243 Haywards ........74
Amity ....................370 San Francisco.. 72
Board of Trustees .... San Francicso..81
San Francisco ......360 San Francisco.. 73
Mt. Moriah .......... 44 San Francisco ..74
Pajaro .................. 110 Watsonville ......76
Brooklyn ..............225 Oakland ............68
Howard ..................37 Yreka ................ 72
Natoma ................ 64 Folsom City......79

Died during the year, 34. Average age, 77.79.
Name
Age
Bryant, Rachel... .............84
Chenowith, James M .....85
Clemenson, Nancy J .....74
Collister, Oscar ..............88
Creighton, James S .......80
Dixon, Robt. R. ..............68
Dunton, Ada Frances ....79
Farnsworth, Sybella......87

Lodge
No.
Golden Gate ........ 30
La Fayette ..........126
Marin .................. 191
Vitruvius ............ 145
Palmyra .. ........ ~... 26
Parnassus . ..........388
Palmyra .... ........ 26
Porterville ........303

Date
April 15, '31
April 23, '31
Jan. 25, '31
Nov. 11, '30
April 4, '31
June 19, '31
Aug. 30, '31
Oct. 11 30

Buried at
Decoto
Sebastopcl
San Rafael
Sebastopol
Placerville
Decoto
Decoto
Hanford

GRAND LODGE OF' CALIFORNIA

Name
Age
Ferrell, Wm. H .............69
Hatch, Richard ..............79
Higgins, Walter F •........69
Hinshaw, Ellen ..............80
Hubbard, Ferdinand......74
Linder, Elvina B ...........81
Lunt, Annie M ...............84
Mattingly, John A .........78
MacDonald, Samuel ......80
Nelson, Paul....................80
Newlon, Sarah E ...........81
Peters, Lavonne .............. 73
Proctor, Mary L .............74
Ryan, Michael ··············:--78
Schroeder, Louise S .....78
Smith, Georgina ....... :..... 81
Smith, Hiram H .............80
Smith, Orville A. ..........68
Starkweather, Haynes ..72
Stone, Harry ...............,_78
Stephensen, Wm. A .......76
Stone, Walter M ...........78
Shearin, Dan'!. T ...........76
Thurman, John ..............86
Walker, Samuel 0 .........79
Wilson, Edith..................68

Lodge
No.
Alhambra ............322
Crockett _............ 139
Fort Bragg ........361
Petaluma ........... .180
San Joaquin ........ 19
South Gate ..........320
Mission ........ ,....... 169
Fresno ..................247
Fullerton ..............339
Callayomi ........... 282
Highland Park. ...382
Oak Grove .........•215
California ............ 1
California ............ 1
Park ....................449
Sunset ..................352
Athens ..................228
Alcatraz ..............244
Oak Grove ..........215
Brentwood ..........345
Sacramento ........ 40
Mendocino .........• 179
Pajaro .................. 110
San Diego .........• 35
Roseville ..............222
California............ 1

Date
Feb. 22, '31
Aug. 3, '31
Jan. 29, '31
Nov. 20, '30
July 26, '31
Nov. 6, '30
Aug. 30, '31
Nov. 25, '30
Dec. 21, '30
Oct. 21, '30
Feb. 10, '31
Mar. 28, '31
May 2, '31
Aug. 22, '31
Dec. 22, '30
Nov. 9, '30
Feb. 25, '31
Aug. 8, '31
Feb. 21, '31
Feb. 11, '31
Mar. 19, '31
June 9, '31
June 29, '31
Dec. · 2, '30
Oct. 24, '30
Nov. 11, '30

Buried at
Alhambra
San Francisco
Oakland
Petaluma
Stockton
Deco to
Decoto
Decoto
Decoto
Decoto
Decoto
Yuba City
Decoto
Decoto
Santa Cruz
Deco to
Davis
Deco to
Oakland
Modesto
Sacramento
Decotci
Deeoto
Decoto .
Decoto
Decoto

Departures during the year, 9
Name
Age
Barker, Thomas E ...............69
Bates, Ellen Fay........- ........58
Dahl, Alice Webb,...............67
Dahl, Christian J ........--....66
Elliott, Louise ............ - ........65
Haslehurst, Alvinza 0 .......70
Haslehurst, Minette ............71
Juhl, Thomas J ..·-··········-····63
Smith, George Lewis.c........58

Date
May 9, '31
Sept. 4, '30
July 10, '31
July 10, '31
Apr. 27, '31
Aug.17, '31
Aug.17, '31
Dec. 15, '31
Aug.30, '31

Lodge
No.
Amity ........................................370
Dunsmuir ..................................297
Southern California _............278
Southern California .............. 278
Fraternity ................................399
Sequoia ..................................... .349
Sequoia ......- ......._................. _..349
Mount Moriah ........................ 44
Long Beach ..............................327

573

Report of the Superintendent-Covina
To the Tr11stees of the Masonic Homes:
The past y~ar has been one of stress and trial, of effort to
retrench expenditure without materially reducing the . se~vice rendered
to the children under our care. We realize that funds for the support
of the Home come from those whose incomes have in inany cases
suffered impairment. All members of our staff have willingly co-operated in the effort to reduce expense, among other things accepting
without complaint a reduction in their own salaries.
If' progress in a given year seems slow, one has but to compare
the Home now with what it was ten years ago, when there were but
half as many children and far less in the way of equipment and
facilities, to realize that through all this time and through many years
before tha.t, the steady purpose of California Masonry to provide for
its dependent children has never. faltered, and that what we have
today is the result of tlie unselfish devotion of thousands who have
done their bit and passed on, many of them to their final reward.
During the past yeat we have had abundant evidence, through visitations from Lodges and other Masonic organizations as well as from
thousands of individuals~ and from many generous gifts, that the
welfare and happiness of the children in the Home continues to be
the heartfelt concern of the Craft throughout the jurisdiction.
The health ~f our children has been good during the year. No
outbreak of epidemic illness has occurred. Prompt attention fo minor
ills has proved valuable in preventing the development of more serious conditions. The average number of children in our hospital,
mostly for slight ailments, has been 3.6 per cent of our total number.
It is a fact worthy of remark that since the Home was founded no
child therein has ·died, except one who was killed in an automobile
accident, and one who was seriously ill when admitted.
Our efficient and kindly nurse, Mrs. Susan Burgess, now in her
eighth year of service, has done a notable work in giving skilled and
sympathetic care to those who needed her ministrations. Drs. S. S.
and W. P . Magan have cared most efficiently for our sick during the
past ten years. We are indebted to Dr. Edgar K. Schumaker of Los
Angeles for eye and ear work, which he has done as for many years
past without charge. Dental work has been taken care of satisfactorily by Dr. Donald H. Wilkins.
The swimming pool, gift of Mrs. Almina Runyon, has now bee11
in use for a year, and has proved to be a valuable recreational asset.
The water is kept clear and pure at all times by continuous filtration
and chlorination. Separate times are assigned for its use by boys and
girls, and by larger and smaller children. Located as it is and sur-

575

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

rounded by attractive landscape planting, it is a beauty spot which
adds greatly to the attractiveness of the Home.
Bro. William Hoogendyk has continued with unabated interest
his volunteer work as Scoutmaster, giving much of his time to the
leadership of our splendid troup of Scouts. "Hoogie" is a great favorite with the boys, and justly so, because he has their interest sincerely
at heart.
The employment of a field worker has been continued throughout
the year, investigating applications originating in the Los Angeles
area for .admission to both the Covina and Decato Homes, and also
keeping us in touch with the families of children in the Home. I
regard it as well proved that we are able to do much better work
with the children in our care as a result of the knowledge of home
conditions thus obtained. In a number of instances we have been
able to return children to mothers as a result of such information. In
many cases our handling of the child has b.een guided more intelligently by the data thus obtained.
We favor keeping the child in touch with his surviving parent or
other relatives. The Home will be doing the child a poor service if it
weans him away from his kin. Children are allowed rather liberal
opportunities to visit relatives, and they in turn are allowed to visit
the child in the Home. We find that it is only in the exceptional case
that such contact operates detrimentally; in general we have received
most satisfactory co-operation from mothers, fathers, and other relatives. Most of them have a sincere appreciation for what we are
doing for their children, and we have many evidences of their confidence and gratitude.
The ideal of our institution is that it should not be an institution
but a home-a place where children can live happy lives, surrounded
by security, protection and love, and where their individual needs
will be studied and supplied. I believe that we have succeeded to a
large degree in attaining this ideal. In twenty years of · experience
with institutional groups of children I have never seen so good an
atmosphere of kindliness, cheerfulness, and willingness of each to do
his part, as obtains in our Covina Home at present. A measure of
this is found in the attitude cif ~ome of our older girls. Each summer
some of !hese go into private homes to work as mothers' helpers,
and some of them are always invited to remain throughout the school
year. Almost invariably they have chosen to return to the Covina
Home;. they feel that they do not wish to forego th~ pleasures, joys
and associations which our Covina Home stands for in their minds.
During the past summer a considerable number of the older boys
were employed at Covina, at various duties on the farm and grounds,

at painting and repair work on the buildings, and some in kitchen
and house work. Whatever duties were assigned them, they did their
work excellently and in good spirit, and their behavior was beyond
criticism. It means a great deal when a group of boys fifteen to seventeen years old work and deport themselves as these boys did.
The younger children spent July and August, as usual, at Camp
Tucker, Balboa. There sunshine, sea air, and salt water swimming,
boating and a varied recreational program, through many happy days
built stronger bodies and prepared them for another year of school
work.
The age distribution of the children in the Home is as follows:
Age
%
Age
%
5 .......................... 1.3
12 .......................... 10.0
13 .......................... 9.2
6 .......................... 3.9
7 .......................... 3.9
14 ......................... .11.8
8 .......................... 3.9
15 .......................... 15.1
9 .......................... 5.9
16 .......................... 10.0
10 .......................... 10.0
17 ...................... :... 3.9
11 .......................... 11.0

574

More than forty per cent of our children are fourteen years old
or older. While in general older children can perform more useful
work in the Home than can those of younger ages,. it is also true that
in the adolescent period they present peculiar problems which have
been absent up to that time.
One of these problems involves the child's conception of his relation to the institution. When he was small he could receive the
benefits of the Home-food, clothing, and all the necessities of lif~,
without any unwholesome sense of dependency. But when he begins
to attain the adult outlook on life, there is a distinct danger in giving
him those things which he needs without any thought upon his part
of doing something in return. At this stage it is easy for him to take
on an unhealthy attitude of expecting and even demanding uncompensated benefits; and from this it is not a far step to the abyss of
pauperism. If we send our boys and girls into the world at eighteen
habituated to the thought of having their needs provided for without
compensatory effort on their part, they will be ill-prepared to take
their places in the world as self-respecting and self-supporting individuals.
We have sought to meet the very real problem here involved in
two ways. First, for the past several years we have been operating a
system whereby these older children are paid for a certain portion of
the work they perform in the Home, and at the same time required
to buy and pay for certain of their necessities, such as clothing, and

576

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

all of their luxuries. When a boy needs a pair of shoes or a suit of
clothes, from the standpoint of moral effect it makes a wide difference
whether he asks and receives it as a gift, or whether he buys 'it with
money which he feels he has earned.
The second measure that has been taken to foster in our older
children a more wholesome attitude in their relationship to the Home
was initiated in your resolution adopted in August, 1930, to the effect
that from and after June, 1931, con.tinued membership in the Home
by any boy or girl sixteen years old or more must be authorized
annually by the Trustees in each case. The import of this resolution
was explained to these plder children, so that they understood that
their retention in the Home until the age of eighteen would no longer
occur automatically, regardless of their response to the opportunities
which their membership afforded them. At the. end of the past school
year each ward of the Home who had attained the age of sixteen
and who desired to remain therein another year was required to make
out a written application for reappointment, setting forth therein his
progress and achievement in his studies, his vocational plans for the
future, his conduct record during the past year, the amount of money
he had earned toward self-support, and a statement of what might be
expected of him in general attitude and performance.
Twenty-six boys and girls made such application; of these twentyfour were reappointed unconditionally; one received a probationary
reappointment; and one was denied. One boy whose record had been
unsatisfactory declined to make application, admitting that he could
not reasonably hope to receive reappointment.
The effect of this procedure has been far-reaching. It has caused
these older children to have a new conception of the value of their
opportunities in the Home and to make in many cases a different
kind of effort to de,serve the privilege of continued membership
therein. No longer do they feel, as was too often the case in the past,
that the Masons will as a matter of course take care of them until
they reach the age of eighteen.
We follow with pride the boys and girls who have left the Home,
and in their achievements and their attitude toward the Home we
believe is found evidence of what it has done for them. Often they
return to visit, expressing gratitude for the help it has given them,
and which they can .better appreciate in the light of some experience
in the world.
In 19Z9 and 1930 twenty-two of our boys and girls graduated
from' high school, and are occupied as follows:

Bo~s:' Stude~t, U. S. Na.val Acaclem;, ,t'; .student, University of
·California,
me.dical course, .1;. employed in printing. offices,
Z; emploved
' . .
.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

577

in business houses, Z; student, Whittier. College, 1; student, art
school, 1.
Girls: In college, preparing to teach, 6; in college, studying
chiropody, 1; attending business schools, 4; employed as stenographer, 1; employed as dtntist's assistant, 1; employed as beauty
operator, 1.
Of the twenty-two above enumerated, twelve have received aid
in higher schooling from the Masonic Scholarship Fund.
We are particularly proud of the achievement of the boy in the
U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, who has finished his first yea'r
there with a rank of thirteenth in a class of 550 men.
JoHN M. DowNEN, Superintendent.
Visitations at Covina Home by Lodges
September, 1930:
14-87th Masonic District, Sawtelle, Sa,nta Monica, Ocean Park,
Venice and Palms visited the Home.
Zl-Sunset Chapter No. Z16, 0. E. S., El Petrol Chapter No. 507,
0 . E. S., Pearl Chapter No. 147, 0 . E . S.
ZS-Lancaster Lodge No. 437 and Sunshine Chapter No. 3Z7,
0. E. S.
ZS-Reseda Chapter No. 505, 0. E. S.
ZS-Majestic Chapter No. 480, 0. E. S., visited the Home. The
guard of the Star Drill Team gave an exhibition on the
ball park.
October, 1930:
3-0. E. S. Club of Lyra Chapter No. 144, 0. E. S., came to the
Home and did sewing and mending for the children.
9-Guardian Chapter No. 439, 0. E. S.
Ii-James Madison Lodge No. 57Z.
26-University Lodge No. 394.
Z6-Florence Lodge No. 649.
November, 1930:
5-Glen Eyrie Chapter No. Z37, 0. E. S.
8-9-Board of Trustees met at the Home. Those present, Grand
Master Ross, Mr. and Mrs. Wollenberg, Mr. and Mrs. Gist,
Mr. and Mrs : Gaylord, Mr. and Mrs. Whicher, Mr. Adams,
Mr. Mixter, Dr. Burke, Mr. Weller.
9-Colton Chapter No. Zll, 0. E. S.
16-Sunnyside Lodge No. 577, Sunnyside Chapter No. 436,
0. E. S., Sunnyside Bethel No. 30, Job's Daughters, Sunnyside Battle Fleet, De Molay.

578

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

16-Corona Lodge No. 324.
16-El Sereno Chapter No. 430, 0. E. S.
23-West Adams Chapter No. 411, 0. E. S., Gardena Chapter
No. 260, 0 . E . S., Searchlight Chapter No; 567, 0. E. S.,
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, Carnation Chapter No. 171,
0. E. S.
23-Buena Park Lodge No. 357, San Pasqual Lodge No. 452,
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319, Garden Grove Lodge No. 586.
30-Alhambra Bethel No. 27, Job's Daughters.
December, 1930:
7-Fontana Lodge No. 653 and Orange Blossom Chapter No.
488, 0 .. E. S.
March, 1931:
21-Manchester Bethel No. 34, Order of Job's Daughters, visited
the Home in the afternoon. Entertained the children with · a
program.
April, 1931:
12-Service Chapter No. 259, 0. E. S.
12-Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422.
May, 1931 :
3-Menorah Lodge No. 623.
3-Charles Albert Adams, Trustee.
10-Bethel No. 6, Job's Daughters, of L ong Beach, California.
12-Queen Esther Auxiliary of Lankershim Chapter No. 403,

0. E. S.
17-Wilshire Lodge N o. 445.
17-Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595.
23-Bellflower Lodge No. 523 and Bellflower Chapter No. 397,
0. E. S. Had a ball game with the Home boys in the afternoon.
·
31-Melita Chapter No. 467, 0. E . S.
June, 1931 :
7-Monte Vista Lodge No. 655 .and.. Mar Vista Chapter No.
511, 0. E. S.
14-Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627, San Gabriel Lodge No. 546,
San Gabriel Chapter No. 407, Bettina Chapter No. 399,
·
0. E. S., East Gate Chapter No. 225, 0. E. S.
21-Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389.
July, 1931:
26-James Madison Lodge No. 572 visited the Masonic Home
Camp.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

579

Entertainments-Covina
December, 1930:
14-Mt. Olive L odge No. 506 visited the Home in the afternoon
and brought a portable talking picture outfi t, which they set
up and gave the children a talkie show.
19-Monrovia Lodge No. 308 gave its annual Christmas party
for the children. All the children were taken to Monrovia
and entertained, first at the Lyric Theater, then at the
Masonic Temple with a Christmas tree, each child receiving
a gift, followed by refreshments.
23-The Los Angeles Masters' a nd Wardens' Association, as in
previous years, financed and managed the Christmas party at
the Home. The party was held in the gymnasium; of course,
there was a tree and a Santa Claus. The entertainment was
furnished by Bro. Bill Sharples of ·Radio Station KTM, and
a parcy of singers from that station. It was entirely suitable
and was very much enjoyed by the children.
March, 1931:
6-Mrs. Rosel Hill of Los Angeles presented two of her piano
pupils in a recital. The art ists were Arnice Rosel Paulson
and George Hazen Bush of L os Angeles, both eleven years
of age. Mrs. Louise Jones of Covina gave several vocal
numbers.
May, 1931:
2-E. T. Gray entertained the children at his beautiful estate
on Sierra Madre Villa Avenue at the foot of Mt. Wilson with
a venison barbecue. After the feast a delightful program of
music, dancing and puppetry was given.
22-The Los Angeles Railway Square and Compass Club with
the co-operation of Mrs. Bertha B. Inman, Guardian of
Bethel 36, Order of Job's Daughters, and Walter Trask of
the Trask Theatrical Agency of Los Angeles, presented a
very excellent entertainment by professional entertainers.
The visiting party was composed of 225 members and friends
who brought a substantial contribution of jams and jellies.
June, 1931:
14-East Gate Chapter No. 225, 0. E. S., entertained the children
with a play given by some of the members of the Chapter.
.21-Henry Knox Lodge No. 662 presented a very attractive and
interesting program, assisted by a number of child stars from
Hollywood.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

580

581

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Donations to Covina Home
All States Lodge No. 59~10 quarts canned fruit, 18 quarts jam, 10
glasses jelly.
Arena Club, Manteca-30 lbs. chocolate drops, 29Y. lbs. chocolate
fudge.
Armagast, Mrs. Chas.-9 quarts canned fruit.
Associate Conductres.s Association-UY. quarts canned fruit, 20Y.
quarts jam, 46 glasses jelly, 3 jars honey, 1 jar sandwich spread,
1 quart string. beans.
.
Atwood, Mr. and Mrs. Ira W.-1 phonograph.
Baker, B. T .-12 Acacia trees, 20 Australian Flame trees.
Baker, H. L.-2 sacks flour, 324 chocolate bars, 14 lbs. Calumet baking
powder, 12 lbs. Baker's chocolate, 34 cans pudding powder, 6
cartons gelatine, 9 cookie cutters.
Bakersfield Court of Ama.ranth-6 comforts.
Balcom, H. P., Santa Paula-200 lbs. walnuts.
Bankers Masonic Club-$44.54.
Beacon of the West Lodge No. 628-$16.00.
Beal, T. C., Hollywood Lodge No. 355-120 chocolate bars.
Beauceant, Social Order of Pasadena-lp glasses of jelly, 7 pints
jam, 1 crate lemons, 1 box walnuts, 17 quarts canned fruit, decorative squash.
Beauceant, Social Order of Assembly No. 44-18 glasses jelly, 11
quarts jam, 9Y. quarts canned fruit.
Bell Lodge No. 483--In memory of Bro. Albert L. Clarkson, $24.00.
Bellflower Lodge No. 523 and Bellflower Chapter No. 397, 0. E. S.192 Hershey's chocolate bars.
Benevolence Lodge No. 631-5 unfinished med. stands, 8 unfinished
bookcases.
Bennett, L. E., P. M. Golden State Lodge No. 358-3 yrs. Geographic
Magazines, box postcards.
Bethel No. 6, Job's Daughters-1 quart canned fruit, 3Y. quarts jam,
2 glasses jelly.
Bethel No. 27, Job's Daughters-2 quarts canned fruit, 7~ quarts
jam, 8 glasses jelly, 2 boxes Christmas greeting cards, 1 gameobject Domino, 3 magazines.
Bethel No. 34, Job's Daughters-25 lbs. home-made candy.
Bettina: Chapter No. 399, 0. E. S.-19Y. quarts jams and jellies, 30
glasses jams and jellies.
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528-1 quart canned fruit, 12 pints jam, 32
glasses jelly, 5 lbs. strawberry jam, 6 lbs. honey, tennis net.
Billig-Mrs. C. A.-2 doz. apples.
Bingham, Bert S., Pomona Lodge .No. 246-1 radio.
Brown, F. F.-$1.00.

Brown, Harry Otis, Ma~ter San Gabriel Lodge No. 546-12 jars jam.
. .
Brown, E. 0.-12 jars jam.
Buena Park Lodge No. 357-24 quarts canned fruit, 3 bottles relish,
69 lbs. honey, 30 quarts jam and jellies, 1 quart pickles, 5 lbs.
walnuts, 1 lb. popcorn.
Bullock's-A large toy dog.
Bush, Mrs. A. M.-2 Christmas gifts for girls, 2 Chris~mas gifts for •
boys.
Bush, A. W., Past Master Coronado Lodge No. 441-Treat $5.00.
.
.
Calvary Commandery-$15.25.
Carnation Chapter No. 171, 0. E. S.-4 cans canned fruit, 3 pints
pickles, 18 quarts jam and jellies, 10 glasses jelly, 10 embroidered
pieces.
Carter, Arthur and Mary E .-14 jars jelly.
Christianson, Eugene, Covina-Ambulance service.
Clapp, Ralph-5 bundles of current magazines, 23 Boy Scout books
and magazines.
Clinton Dr. G. A.-1 quart fig jam.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-25 lbs. dates.
Colton Chapter No. 211, 0. E. S.-36 quarts canned fruit, 16Y. pints
jam, 4 glasses jelly, 2 jars pickles, 3 lbs. raisins, 5 lbs. apples,
$1.00.
Comfort, F. B. and S. L. Christiansen, University Lodge No. 394-34
Victrola records, 5 bunches bananas.
Conklin, Chester, University Lodge No. 394-200 sticks gum.
Constable, C. H. and A. E. Swartz-$1.00.
Cook Mrs. Flora-$1.00.
Coro~a Lodge No. 324-28 quarts canned fruit, jams and jelly, 95
· glasses jam and jelly, 600 sticks of gum, window shades for room
furnished by Corona Lodge.
Corona Chapter No. 172, 0. E. S.-37 books.
Coulston, Nora S.-12 quarts canned fruit.
Covina Theater-100 theater tickets.
Crooks, Mr. and Mrs. F . R., Montebello Lodge No. 451-20 cans
. canned vegetables, 6 packages Jell-Well.
Dingle Arthur C.-Queen Beach Lodge No. 540-$5.00.
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422-9 quarts canned fruit, 10 quarts jam,
1 quart honey, 1 quart quince honey, 1 chocolate layer cake.
Echols Frank-30 lbs. dates.
Easter~ Star Sewing Club, Hayward Chapter No. 331-6 pairs
pajamas, 12 dish towels.
East Gate Chapter No. 225, 0. E. S.-18 quarts jams and jellies, 20
glasses jelly, magazines.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576-1 phonograph.
1

582

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

El Petrol Chapter No. 507, 0. E. S.-39 pill~w cases.
El Serena Chapter No. 430, 0. E. S.-7 pints jams and jellies, 8
.g lasses jam, 3 quarts canned fruit.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379--89 quarts tomatoes, 21 quarts canned fruit,
80 quarts jam, 5 glasses jelly.
Fitzgerald Music Company of Los Angeles-Refinishing and overhauling one piano.
Flack, Mrs. C. J., 2453 Echo Park. avenue, Los Angeles-13 rag dolls,
6 bags candy, 6 candy turkeys.
Fontana Lodge No. 653 and Orange Blossom Chapter No. 488,
0. E. S.-W% quarts canned fruit, 80 quarts jam, 5 glasses jelly,
1 package minute tapioca, 6 oranges, 1 lb. figs, 1 lb. dates, 1 loaf
nut bread.
Fuelscher, Wm. M.-14 dozen tennis balls.
G.a rden Grove Lodge No. 586--5 gallons honey, 3 quarts honey, 1
quart pickles, 25 quarts canned fruit, 3 pints chili sauce, 250
quarts jam, 12 glasses jelly, 10 oz. popcorn.
·
Gardena Chapter No. 260, 0. E. S.-40 quarts canned fruit, 130 halfgallon jars canned fruit, 34y.;: quarts jam, 2 quarts mixed pickles,
1 can beans, 12 pints jam, 4 quarts fruit, 2 quarts pickles, 1 glass
jelly.
Gerfin, W. P.--8 lugs pears.
Gibson~ Mrs. Homer, Pasadena-336 Hershey's chocolate bars, 12 lbs.
peanut butter.
Gingg, Herman C.-$2.00.
Glendale Chapter No. 422, 0. E. S.-20 quarts canned fruit, 100
. quarts jam, 2 jars relish, 26 glasses jelly.
Glendening, L. C.-21 books.
Glen Eyrie Chapter No. 237, 0. E. S.-3 quarts canned fruit, 21 quarts
jam, 16 glasses jelly.
Golden West Lodge No: 455-31 boxes valentine sets.
Grand Council R. & S. M. of California-2 rugs, 1 overstuffed settee.
1 overstuffed chair and .1 gas stove, for domestic science cottage
curtains, $10.00.
·
·
Griesbach, Armo G.-$5.0G.
Guardian Chapter No. 439, 0. E. S.-190 quarts jam and jellies, 26
glasses jam and jellies, 2 quarts canned fruit, $5.60.
Hanford Chapter No. 127, 0. E. S.-20 lbs. cluster raisins, 20 lbs.
nuts.
Heubler, Jordan, University Lodge No. 394-50 lbs. dates.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319'-88 quarts canned fruit, 1880 quarts jam,
111 glasses jelly, 6 quarts pickles, 8 5-gallon cans honey, 7 quarts
honey, 25 lbs. honey, 100 .lbs. sugar, 5. lbs. nuts, 10 lbs. apples,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

583

1 box cookies, 1 large rug for junior girls' building, $3.00.
Hollywood Assembly No. 38--13 quarts canned fruit, 24 cans soup,
90 quarts jam, 30 glasses jelly.
Hollywood Laundry-Worn clothing.
Hoppe, A. C., South Pasadena Masonic Association-4 bundles magazines.
Hunt, E . H., South Gate Lodge No. 320-1 pint jelly.
Huyck; Chas., Signal Lodge No. 543-6 cans fruits and vegetables,
4 jars honey, 2 jars jam, 1 plum pudding, 2 packages spaghetti,
1 lb. rice, 1 can marmalade.
James Madison Lodge No. 572-1 quart canned fruit, 120 quarts
jams and jellies, 11 glasses jelly, 1 glass spiced figs, $1.25.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145, 0. E. S.-150 boxes home-made candy.
King, G. C.-1 box pens.
La Habra Chapter No. 508, 0. E. S.-For summer camp, $7.50.
La Habra Lodge No. 659-For summer camp, $17.50.
Lancaster Lodge No. 437 and Sunshine Chapter No. 327, 0. E. S.35 quarts canned fruits, 270 quarts jams and jellies, 33 glasses
jelly, 1 quart honey, 6 lugs pears.
Lankbert, Herman, $10.00.
Larchmont Lodge No. 614-1 dozen tennis balls and 2 rackets.
Link, Mathew, Ramona Bakery-2 dozen loaves bread, 2 dozen buns,
2 dozen doughnuts.
Los Angeles Film Board of Trade, at the request of the Los Angeles
Masters' and Wardens' Association, furnished moving pictures
each week.
Los Angeles Fire Department-6 cartons and several broken cartons
of fire crackers.
Los Angeles Railway Square and Compass Club-10 quarts canned
fruit, 52 quarts jam, 2 quarts honey, 42 glasses jelly, 2 small
glasses syrup, 1 glass peanut butter, 1 box cookies.
Los Angeles Soap Company-100 cakes White King soap, 36 cakes
Mission Bell soap.
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, Henry
Knox Lodge No. 662-57 quarts jams and jellies, 84 glasses jelly,
1 cake and box of cake, 1 lb. cube sugar, 2 playground balls.
McCartney, Myron-I buffalo robe.
McElroy, C. E. and Mr. White-I lawn swing for little .girls.
McLaughlin, John, Fullerton Lodge No. 339-$5.00.
McLeod, Walter L.-$8.00.
McKesson, Western Wholesale Drug Co .-~4 dozen McKesson milk
of magnesia toothpaste.
Malta Chapter No. 475, 0. E. S.-7 pints jam, 4 quarts canned fruit,
8 quarts honey, 22 glasses jelly.

584

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Majestic Chapter No. 480, 0. E. S.-16 quarts canned fruit, 3 gallons
jam, 57 pints jams and jellies, 33 glasses jelly, 77 toy balloons.
Manchester Chapter No. 447, 0. E. S.-11 pints jelly.
Mar Vista Chapter No. 511, 0. E. S.-23 lbs. home-made candy,
comfort.
Marysville Chapter No. 55, 0. E. S.--$41.50.
Masonic District, 87th-$9.60, 12. quarts canned fruit, 4 small stone
jars jam, 84 jars and glasses assorted jams and jellies. ·
Melita Chapter No. 467, Q. E. S.-2 quarts canned fruit, 4 pints jam,
14 glasses jelly, 5 lbs. cookies, 13 pot holders.
Menorah Lodge No. "623-5V. boxes gum, 29 rubber balls, 72 No. 10
cans fruit, 6 5-oz. cans syrup, 30 quarts canned fruit, 2 quarts
jam, 2 glasses jelly.
Miscellaneous treat-$10.65.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655-6 playground balls, 5 baseballs, 4 ball
bats.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-1 quart canned fruit, 2 quarts jam.
Monrovia Chapter No. 227, 0. E . S.-26V. pints jam and jelly, 2
glasses jelly.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. 50&-5 gallons cranberry sauce, 1 lb. candy, 10
lbs. stuffed dates, 4 lbs. cookies, 5 quarts canned fruit, 31 quarts
jams and jellies, 2 pints pickles, 37 glasses jelly, 3 small jars chili
sauce, 1 lb. peanut butter, 6 small packages Jell-Well, 7 jars
marmalade, moving picture.
Nazareth Shrine No. 8-ll quarts canned fruit, 10 quarts jams and
jellies, 1 pint honey, 4 glasses jelly, V. lb. cocoa.
Occidental Chapter No. 160, 0. E . S.-46 glasses jelly, 33 quarts jam
and jellies, 4 quarts fruit.
0. E. S. Club of Lyra Chapter-31 pints jams and jellies, 3 glasses
jelly, · 1 sack lemons, 1 bouquet cut flowers.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-1 keg olives.
Pentalpha Chapter No. 339, 0 . E. S.-22 pints jams and jellies, 4
glasses jelly, 10 lbs. almonds.
Past Matrons' and ·Patrons' Association of ldlewild Chapter No. 191 dozen tea towels, material for doll sewing.
Pearl Chapter No. 147, 0. E. S.-lOV. quarts canned fruit, 4V. quarts
jam, 6 glasses jelly.
Phipps, Minnie-Valentines.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-1 box cranberries.
Priniepota, M.-3 pints jam, 2 6-oz. jars jam.
Queen Esther Auxiliary .of Lankershim Chapter No. 403, O. E. S. 12 lbs. home-made candy.
R?.mona Lodge No. 457-240 candy canes.
Past Master Randall, Coronado Lodge No. 441- Treat, $5.00.

Redd, Mrs.-18V. pints jams and jelly.
Reseaa Chapter No. 505, 0. E. S.-25 quarts canned fruit, 54 quarts
jam and jellies, 62 glasses jelly, $2.75.
Robinson, J. W . & Co.-2 large boxes toys.
Rodgers, J . C.-Repaired Servel refrigerator.
Rodgers, W. D .-1 game.
Rosenberg, Wm. A., Al Malikah Temple Guild-124 childrens' books.
Rouch, Ruby F ., Traver Lodge No. 294-12 half gallon jars peaches.
Ryerson, M. J.-$1.00.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546, San Gabriel Chapter No. 407, 0. E. S.23 quarts jam, 23 glasses jelly.
San Gabriel Masonic Club-1 Echophone radio.
San Gabriel Valley Chapter No. 100, R. A. M., and Alhambra Commandery No. 48, K. T.-1 ping pong, 1 catcher's suit, 1 athletic
set, 4 tennis balls, 6 indoor balls, 5 tennis rackets, 2 ball bats,
2 footballs.
San Jose Assembly No. 5, Order of Rainbow for Girls-Box of doll
dresses.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452-5 boxes apples, 50 lbs. cranberries, 206
glasses jelly, 85 quarts canned fruit, 150V. quarts jam, 8 pints
chili sauce, 2 quarts pickles, 3 cans apple butter, 1 can olives,
I can pears, 1 can milk, 1 box books, 3 bedspreads, 1 set princt'ss
dresser covers, 2 table covers, for senior rings $46.25.
Santa Clara Chapter No. 195, 0. E. S.-$10.00.
Sarwine, Mrs. C. H .-53 cases persimmons.
Searchlight Chapter No. 567, 0. E. S.-4V. quarts canned fruit, 2V.
quarts orange 11.1armalade, 38V. quarts jams and jellies, 8 glasses
jelly.
Searchlight Lodge No. 567-$12.00.
Seaside Chapter No. 259, 0 . E. S.-2 dresser c.overs.
Service Chapter No. 259, 0. E. S.-6 quarts canned frui t, 12 quarts
jams and jellies, 4 glasses jelly.
Shane, Mr. and Mrs. Max R., Highland Park Lodge No. 382-26 lbs.
candy.
Sierra Madre 0. _E. S. Social Club-6 comforts.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367-$20.00.
Southern California Past Masters' Association- For Boy Scouts'
expen~s, $195.22.
Stallsmith, Walton-Large package toy balloons.
Starlight Club-24 tea towels.
States, Alfrcd-6 lugs apricots.
Steinacker, 0. F ..,....-1 lug plums, 2 lugs apricots.
Steiner, Mrs. Lotta C.- 1 piano.
Steinbach, H. A.-In memory of his mother, Pauline L. Steinbach,
.
$20.00.

585

586

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sternberg, Alex-$1.00.
Stone, Mr. and Mrs. A. E.-$1.30.
·
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577 and Sunnyside Chapter No. 436, 0. E. S.2 cases canned fruit, 20 quarts canned fruit, 65 jars assorted jam,
1 can soup, 1 can apple butter, 25 lbs. apples, JOY, quarts jams
and jellies, 32 glasses jelly, 1 jar mixed pickles, 120 sticks candy,
.
6 games, 6 toys, 2 dolls, 6 t<;>y dogs, 1 paper costume, 1 tricycle.
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577, Bethel No. 30, Job's Daughters, and Battlefleet, De Molay-$2.65.
Sunset Chapter No. 216, ·o. E. S.-2 quarts canned fruit, 37 quarts
. jams and jellies, 46 glasses jelly.
Sunset Pacific Oil Co.-144 beach balls.
Thomas, F. S. and H. S. Lithgow-9 large scrap books.
Thomas, Mr. and Mrs. R. L. and A. M. Hartwell, University Lodge
No. 394-12Y, quarts canned fruit, 1 quart jam, 11 glasses jelly.
Thompson, W. Z., Sunrise Lodge No. 522-$15.00.
Traver Lodge No. 294, W. F. Haskell, John Forney, Fred Schaffer,
A. E. Nelson, Ruby Rouch, Claude Rouch and Alva Rouch-220
lbs. prunes, 50 lbs. raisins.
Tuechter, August H., Cincinnati, Ohio-Papers sent to children frequently through the year.
University Lodge No. 394-260 quarts jams and jellies, 6 glasses
jelly, 3 pints canned fruit, 10 lbs. apples, 1 gallon honey, 6 dozen
cookies, 1 lb. cake, 27 music rolls, 8 Victrola records, window
shades and curtains for room furnished by them, $24.66; $1.00 for
each child in the Home, $160.00.
Van Rocum, Mr. and Mrs. W. and Kuaner, Mr. a.nd Mrs. C. J.-$3.00.
Van Sickle, G.D., South Pasadena Lodge No. 567-$20.CO.
Van Valen, Charles B.-$5.00.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515-40 folding chairs for gymnasium.
Virgil and Central Jr. High Schools, Los Angeles-I Thanksgiving
basket.
Ward, Martha Mary-$1.00.
Wasmer, Mrs. Fred-In memory of Mrs. Ella Moon, books.
Waters, Mr. and Mrs. A. R.-$5.00.
Welch, Patrick-For Thanksgiving, $40.00.
West, Sidney V.-93 volumes chHdrens' books.
West Adams Chapter No. 411, 0. E. S.-15 quarts jam. 13 glasses
jelly, 6 gallons honey, 2 glasses honey.
West Gate Sewing Club-Box of toys.
Westgate Sewing Club, Berkeley. California-For blankets, $10.00.
Westlake Chapter No. 268, 0. E. S.-Curtains and floor lamp for
room furnished by Westlake Chapter.
Wholesale Butter and Egg Dealers of Los Angeles:._2 cases egg~.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

587

Wilcox, Master Allen C.-A large box of toys.
Wilkins, Dr. and Mrs. Donald-Electric clock for hospital.
Williams, Mrs. Ethelyn A., Oil Center, California-2 comforts.
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Harry H.-$5.00.
Wilshire Lodge No. 445-14 glasses jelly, 7Y, quarts jam, 3 lbs.
Bishop's cakes.
Wright, H. B., Newport Beach, 50 lbs. fish.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations-Covina Home
Lodges
Lodge
No.
Acorn ..........................494
Alamo .......................... 122
Alisa! .......................... 321
Alpha .......... :.................431
Alta Loma ..................643
Alturas ........................248
Amador ........................ 65
Antioch ........................ 175
Arcata .......................... 106
Argonaut .................... 461
Argonne ...................... 514
Artesia ........................ 377
Ashlar .......................... 306
Atascadero ... :..............493
Athens .......................... 228
Azusa .......................... 305
Bakersfield .................. 222
Blackmer ....................442
Buckeye ..................... .195
Burlingame ............... .400
Caledonia .................... 486
California .................. 1
Callayomi .................... 282
Capital City ................499
Carquinez .................... 377
Center .......................... 465
Charity ........................362
Charter Rock ............. .410
Chino Valley ............. .427
Clay .............................. 101
Coalinga ...................... 387
Compass ...................... 590
Confidence ..................203

Amt.
Lodge
No .
$10.00 Corinthian .................. 9
10.00 Corona ..........................324
10.00 Crescent ...................... 45
5.00 Crockett ...................... 139
10.00 Cupertino .................... 510
5.00 Delta ............................471
5.00 Dunsmuir ;...................297
5.00 East Bay ......................489
10.00 East Gate ....................290
10.00 East Gate ....................290
10.00 Eden .......................:...... 113
10.00 Eel River ....................147
5.00 El Cajon Valley ........ 576
5.00 El Centro ....................384
5.00 El Dorado .................• 26
10.00 Elmhurst ......................610
25.00 El Segundo ................ 507
25.00 Elysian ........................418
5.00 Enterprise .................... 70
25.00 Escalon ........................ 591
15.00 Eureka .......................... 16
25.00 Evergreen ....................259
5.00 Excelsior ..................... .166
10.00 Fairmount ................... .435
10.00 Fillmore ......................379 ·
10.00 Fort Crook ..................575
6.10 Francis Drake .........~ ..376
15.00 Franklin ...................... 143
10.00 Fraternity .................... 399
10.00 Fremont ..................... .497
10.00 Friendship ................... .210
10.00 Fruitvale ..:...................336
10.00 Geo. Washington ........ 525

Amt.
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
$10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

588

GRAND
. . LODGE OF. CALIFORNIA
.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Lodge
Glendora ......................404
Golden Rule ................479
Gold Hill .................... 32
Harding •.......................584
Hammonton ................433
Hawaiian .................... 21
Henry Clay ................ 95
Henry Morse
Stephens ..................541
Henry S. Orme ..........458
Hermann ......................127
Hesperian ...................264
Highland Park ..........382
Hill's Ferry ................236
Hiram .......................... 43
Hollenbeck ..................319
Honolulu ......................409
Howard ........................ 37
Illinoistown ................ 51
Indian Rock ................638
Inglewood ...................A21
John P. Jarman ........669
Jubilee ..........................604
Lakeshore ....................551
La Mesa ......................407
Landmark ....................253
La Parfaite Union...... 17
Las Palmas ................366
Laurel ..........................245
Lexington ....................104
Libertas ........................466
Liberty ........................299
Lindsay ........................416
Live Oak - .................. 61
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..................371
Lodi ..............................256
Lompoc ........................262
Long Beach ................327
Madera ........................280
Madison ........................ 23
Malta ............................661
Maricopa ........-............434

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
11.25
25.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
100.00
10.00
$ 5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
45.25
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
Marin ......,.....................191
Mariposa -···················· 24
Martinez ...................... 41
Menorah ......................623
Midway ........................426
Military Service ........ 570
Mill Valley ..................356
Modesto ......................675
Monterey ......................217
Mountain View .......... 194
Mount Oso ..................460
Mt. Diablo ..................448
Needles ........................326
Neptune ........................619
Nicolaus ...................... 129
Norwalk ......................31S
Oak Grove ..•...............21S
Oasis ............................664
Ocean Park ................369
Occidental .................... 22
Ontario .............•..........301
Orange Grove ...........293
Oriental ........................ 144
Orland ..........,...............26S
Owensmouth ..............611
Oxnard ........................3"41
Pacific Grove ..............331
Pajaro ..........................110
Pasadena ......................272
Palestine ......................351
Palisades ..........•...........637
Palos Verdes ..............389
Paso Robles ................286
Patters6n ....................488
Perris ............................411
Phoenix ........................178
Piedmont ......................521
Pinole ...:........................3S3
Plumas .......................... 60
Point .....................,......S03
Point Firmin ........~ .....558
Pomona ........................246
Redwood City ............168

Amt.
25.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
S.00
$ 5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
21.20
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
15.00

Lodge
No.
Rising Light ..............397
Riverside ......................63S
Rockridge ....................468
Roosevelt ......................SOO
Russian River ............181
Sacramento .................. 40
San Bernardino ..........348
San Diego .................... 35
San Dimas ..................428 .
San Francisco ............360
San Gabriel ................546
San Jacinto ................338
San Jose ...................... 10
San Mateo ..................226
San Pasqual ................452
San Pedro ......•.............332
San Simeon ................196
Santa Ana ..•.•............241
Santa Barbara ............192
Santa Cruz .................. 38 ·
Santa Maria .............•.,580
Santa Paula ............... ,291
Santa Rosa .................. 57
Seaport ..........•.............5SO
Sequoia ........................349
Silver Gate .•................296·
Silver Trowel ............41S
Sincerity ......................132
South Pasadena ........367
Sojourner ....................607

Chapter

No.
Anaheim ..................... .12S
Berkeley ...................... ·92
California .................... S
Calistoga ......................119
Coalinga ...................... 114
Crown .......................... 72
Dixon .....~ ...........'........... 48
Donner ........................ 39
Doric ............................ 66
East Gate .................... 103

Amt.
10.00
5.00
12.50
7.SO
5.00
10.00
10.00
40.00
25.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
$ 5.00
10.00.
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
29.80
12.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00

589

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Standard ......................440 .... 10.00
St. Helena .................. 93
5.00
Suisun .......................... 55
· 5.00
Sunnyvale ....................Sll.
10.00
S. W. Hackett ............574
.10.00
Taft ..............................516
5.00
Temblor ........................477
$10.00
Temescal ......................314
5.00
Triangle ........................548
'.12.50
Truckee ........................200
5.00
Tujunga ......................S92 . .. 7.00
Tuscan ..........................261
10.00
Unity ............................368
10.00
Vallee de France........329
10.00
Vatlejo ..........................487 ·
10.00
Vesper .......................... 84
10.00
Victorville ................;...634 ·
5.00
Victory .......................A74.
10.00
Visalia ..........................128
10.00
Washington ................ 20
· 25.00
White Pine ········"········SSS ·· 10.00
Whittier ........................32S ·
25.00
Willow Glen ..............676
2.50
Wilmington ................198
5.00
Woodland ....................156
5.00
Woodstock .............::::.491
5.00
Yerba Buena ..............S03
· 5.00
Yolo .............................. 81
2.50
Yosemite ...................... 99
10.00

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
$ 5.00 .El Centro ....................109
10.00 Fidelity ........................ '96
12.50 Granite ............................
5.00 Grass Valley .............. 18
5.00 Huntington Park ......127
5.00 Keystone ...................... 56
10.00 Los Angeles ................ 33
5.00 Marin ~...........................102
5.00 Mission ..........~.'......'...... · 79
10.00 Montebello ................. J~9

··Amt.
5.00
, . 5.00
15.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

590

No.

Amt.

Napa .............................. 30
Ontario ........................ 105
l"tumas ...........................107
Pomona ........................ 76
Redondo ············-········10!1
ltiverside ...................... 67
Sacramento .................. 3
·San Diego .................... 61
San Jacinto .................. 87
San Luis ...................... 62
Searchlight -·········-····-133

5.00

Chapter

.CommalUlery

No.

El Dorado -················ 4
Glendale -···················· 53
' Golden W-est ...•.......... 43
Los Angeles •............... 9
,Maysville __ ................ 7
Monnt Shasta ............ 32
N.aval ............................ 19
Oro.ville ····-·················· 5
C ou11cil
No.
LOi Angeles ................ 11
Pasadena •..................... 16

Chapter

$ 5.00
2.50
10:00
10.00
5.00
5.-00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

No.

A-mt.

Sierra ··············-··-·-----.211
Signet ............................ 57
Siloam ························- 37
South Pasadena ........-112
St. Helena .................. u3
Temple .......................... 41
Unity ······--··················116
Visalia .......................... 44
Waihington ................ 13
Woodland ............'........ 46

5.00

Chapter

Commanderies, K. T.
Amt.
Ctm1mandery
$ 5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5:00
10.00

$10.-00
5.00

$10.00
5.00
5.00

10.00
25.00
10.00

5.00
10;00

5.00
,10,00
5.00
10.00
10;()()
5.00

No.

Amt.
$10.-00
12.50

s,oo

5.00
5.00
10.-00

10.-00
.5.00

No.

Amt.

Pomona ........................ 21
Ailey ····--·················· 27

$10.00
5.00

v

Chapters, 0. E. S.
No.
Amt.
Chapter

Corona ..........................107
Golden Wave .............. 103
lone ······-··--·················282
J ewe! ······-····················283
Josephine .,.....................104
Mercedes ......................126

10.00

Pasadena ...................... 31
Riverside ...................... 28
San Luis Obispo ........ Zl
Southern California.... 37
St. Bernard-··············- 23
Visalia .......................... 26
Watsonville ········-······ 22
Woodland .................... 21

Councils, R. & S. M.
Amt.
Council

591-·.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Frank G. Watson. ...'·-··················-········································..:··········-············ 15·.00
East Bay Pas.t Matrons' Association, 0. E.. S....-•.....-----·-·-·-·· 35Jl0.
Harry SciW.-·····-·------..:·-···-···········-···--·--·-------...-··---· 5.00
Pierro
5.00
Pasadena Scottish Rite Bodin.·-··-·--·····H···--····------··-··-·--- 25.00
Mrs. James Blacldock...--·---··---····················-··········-············- ··--- 5.00
5.00
Peninsula Line Officers' Association, 0. E.
M. B. Sdlumacket"--·-·---- ··-···- ···········•·····--···-········- ··············- 10.00
The Masons of Fibreboard Products. Inc...........·-····-·-·-·····-·······-·-· 25.00
Universal Craftsman,. No. 4, Los Angeles-........................ -~..................-. S.00

liiLellll...-·····-··---...,--.-·······•······-w··-··--··-··---·":"·-··

S..·--·······-······--··----·-

Chas. Jcnlciu......--..---·--··--·-········-·-·····-··········-···············-···· 2.50
Fred J. Mattit....··-·-·--··-·-···-··············-'···················-·-······· 1.00
Esther J~n Spe!*t
·-··-··-·-···········'"········-·-····-····-················ 15.00
Peninsula Lodge of Perfection No. 14.......·-···············-····················-···· 10.00
·-·----······-···•············-··················•········· 5.00
Miguelito {;.irctle...
San Luis Obispo Pyramid, A. E. 0. S. No. 29, Sc~s...................... 5.00
Summary
Lodges ·····---·····-.. ·················•·--··--·····--·····~···--·················-···-.$2,383.10
Chapters, 0. E . S.-.....:..................---·h······........:.·--·--···-··············-- 160.00
Commanderies, K. T .................-·-·················-:········-···················-······ 157.50
Councils, R. & S. " ························-·-·······-·--···-·-·-:·············-····30.00
Chapters, R. A. M.·-·····················-······-·········-···-·-·········~········--··- 287.50·
Miscellaneous ·····-··························-··-·············--·-·······················-············ 261.50

Grand taMll...·--·················- ··--······-·········· -·····-··-·--············-......... :~.60
Children at the Covina Home, August 31, 1931
BOYS-79

No.

Amt.

Migue!ito .................... 176
Mizpah •.........................100
San Rafael _ ................215
Ungava .. __ .:.................. 106
Wheatland .................. 48

$ 5.00
10.00
20.00
40.00
20.00

MiscellauO<Us
Amt.
L. A. Square and Compass Oub and Bethel No. 36, Job's Daughters..$40.00
Coinpanion Wallace Moutpnery..........-.................................................... 2.00
F. J. Breclc:enridge.................:.....·..................................................................... 1.00
T. E. WitliatM.................................................................................................. 20.00
San Diego Lodge of Perfection, Scottish 'Rite.....:.................................. 25.00

Na~

Admitted

Allen, Orin........................ July 16, '23
Arthur., Paul L.-...............June 27, '28
Athan, Byron D ...............Dec. 29, '27
Bailey, James K.............Sept. 10, '25
Baker, Kenneth B .............Aug. 3, '28
Baker, Philip- D .................Aug. 3, '28
Bergman, Roy A •............Dec. 30, '29
S:O,..er, Clam11te................Oct. 15, '30
Bremin, Lawrence..........Aug. 11, '29
Brown, Robert O ...............Dec. 8, '29
Brown, Wm. D'...................Dee. 8; '29
Carroll, Chas. E .............Mar. 17, '28

No.
Moleno .................. 1:5&
Lodge

Dinuba ..................385
Petaluma ..............1$
Le Progres de
!'Oceanic ..........371
West Lake ..........392
West Lake ..........392
Mizpah ..................378
Alhambra ............322
San Bernardino....348
Los Angel'cs.......... 4'2
Los Angeles.......... 42
Pentalpha ..............262

Location

Agt
Tehama ............15
Dinuba _............13 '
Petaluma ..........13
Honolufa ..........17
Los Angeles ...... 7
Los Angeles...... 9
Los Angeles......II
Alhambra .......... U
S. Bernardino.. 6
Los Angetes...... 5
Los Angeles...... 7
Los Angeles...... rz

Name

Admitted

Lodge

593·

GRAND · LODGE OF· CALIFORNIA

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Location

,Age

Chapin, Philip R. ............June 22, '22 Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City.. lS
Chapin, · Robt. D ...............June 22, '22 Redwood City ......168 Redwood City.. 16
Chetham, Alfred H ....... Aug. 31, '24 Sequoia ..................349 Oakland ........:..JS
Clemo, Raymond J ......... Apr. 30, '28 Menlo Park ...:......6Sl Menlo Park..'.... ll.
Countryman, Robt. H .....Nov. 20, '30 Occidental ............ 22 San Fran<!isco..12
Cuniberti, Alby................ Nov, 18, '28 Speranzaltaliana..219 · ·San Frandsco..14
Cuniberti, Remo.............. N ov. 18, '28 Speranza I taliana..219 San Francisco.. 11
Davis, .Frank E. Jr ...........Aug. S, '28 Golden State ........3S8 Los· Angeles•.....14
Day, John A .....................Apr.10, '24 Lompoc ................262 Lompoc ...:.:::.... lS
Dent, George C...............Apr. 14, '27 San Jose ................ 10 San Jose ........:;;J6
Ede, Clarence L...............Aug. 24, '26 Hope ············-·······234 Beckwith ...:.....J6
Enslow, Lawrence C.........Jan. 6, '30 Reading ___...2S4 Redding . .'......::... 13
Fasshauer, Jacob C.......June 12, '28 Durant --·-····--·268 Berkeley ..::..:..:..14
Gains, Burton G.............June 26, '29 Meridian ___....667 Glendale ...:..:..... lS
Gittings; George C......... Sept. 16, '29 Silver Gate............296 San biego.:........ 16
Gorbett, Wm. Hal............ Nov. 4, '28 Ontario. _..............301 Ontario ..............12
Greene, Wm. R. ..................Oct. 3, '26 Temple··-····-········ 14 Sonoma ...:........16
Harris, C::harles W .........June 24, '23 Oakland ................188 Oakland ............17
Herbert, Fred H .............May 12, '29 Artesia ..................377 Artesia.......,....:.. 1S
Hocks, .Russell O .............June 23, '27 Grand Lodge .............. --···················:..12
Lavender, Earl M ............. Mar. 4, '28 · Orosi ......................383 Orosi ................ lS
Lidell, Ernest D .............Aug. 29, '31 Pasadena .............272 Pasadena ..........10
Lidell, Samuel T .............Aug. 29, 31
Pasadena .....:........272 Pasadena .......... 12
Lord, Edmund J ...............July 27, '29 Golden West ........4SS San Francisco.. 11
Lord, Ra.Ymond P ...........July 27, '29 Golden West ........4SS San Francisco ..12
Lord, Richard B.....,.........July 27, '29 Golden West ........4SS San Francisco.. 6
Lord, Robert ].........:.:....;July 27, '29 Golden West ..:....ASS San· Francisco.. 8
Mark, John ].....................Aug. 6, '29 Whittier ...c••••••••••••323 Whittier ............ 11
McKinley, Douglas S ..... Aug. 31, '21 Vacaville .............. 134 Vacaville .......... 14
McKinley, Philip E ....... Aug. 31, '21 Vacaville .......~ ...... 134 Vacaville .......•:.16
McKinnon, John P. Jr ... Dec. 15, '24 Sequoia ....:...........349 Oakland ............ 11
McNamara, Edward C...Apr. 23, '30 Humboldt ............ 79 Eureka .....,........10
Monroe, James L .............]an. 21, '31 Orland ..................26S Orland.:............ 8
Monroe, Preston A.........]an. 21, '31 Orland ..................26S Orland ..:........... 6
Morgan, John Wm........... Mar. 3, '31 Amity ....................370 San Francisco.. 10
Nelsen, Nels •.................... Nov. 27, '27 Las Palmas ..........366 Fresno ·.:............ 14
Nelson, Alva .Lee.....,...... Oct. 23, '30 Montebello ........ ,.4Sl Montebello ,.......10 ·
Nelson, Calvin C.............. oc·t. 23, '30 Montebello ............4Sl. Montebello .....:.; :7
Ogden, Allan Geo.....,.....Aug. 31, '3i Lynwood .. ;...........q()O . Lynwood · ...~...... 10
Prewett, Norman H .........Jan. 4, '31 Sisson . .... :..:..........310 Mount Shasta .:13
Reynolds, I van G........... Sept. 12, '20 Live Oak .............. 61 Oakland •........... 10
Richards, Langton .......... May 17, '30 Mt. Davidson........481 San Francisco.. 14
Richardson, Jos. A. Jr... Nov. 18, '28 Golden State ........3S8 Los Angeles..... .12

Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Riddell, Edwin B........... May 29, '30 Amity .......:.....:......370
Riddell, Robt. McA.........May 29, '30 Amity ....................370
Rouch, Herbert A. ............ May 4, '26 Traver ......~...........294
Rouch, Melvin R. .....:........ May 4, '26 Traver ..................294
Runkle, Robt . ...........:......June lS, '2S Lompoc ..................262
Runkle, Thos. .£........•......June lS, '2S Lompoc ..................262
Schulte, Carl ...:..,......_: ........ Apr. 2, '2S Hermann ..............127
Schultz, Frank.................. May 11, '28 Military Service..570
Schwartz, Adolph............ Apr. 27, '30 ·L os ·Angeles.......... 42
Schwartz, Joseph .....;......Apr. 27, '30 Los Angeles.......... 42
Shields, John J :........;.........Jan. 2, '28 Drytown •...........:.174
Short, Ralph C..'········-····Aug. 4, '28 · La Fayette ...:......126
Shoupe, Billie 1L...;......Sept. 10, '27 · San ta Ana: ............241
Simon, Norman :·.......'....... Sept. 22, '26 Ocean· Park ..........369
Simon, Teddy ..•......,..:....:Sept. 22, '26 Ocean Park ..........369
Swar.tz, Lowell F ............:June 8, '30 Mount Oso ...:......460
Taylor, Floyd S .......;....... Oct. 19, '22 W oodstock ..........491
Taylor, Lauryn H .........Aug. 29, '21 Woodstock .......:..491
Taylor, Vaughn C. A. ....Aug. 29, '21 Woodstock ...:......491
Traxler, Arnold C...:.......:.June 8, '29 Oakland ................188
Walline, Cleon M ....:.......Jan. 31, '30 Wirtnedumah ........287
Walline, Harold M ........Jan.. 31, '30 Winnedumah ........287
Williams, Robt. R. ..........May 27, '2S Artesia ..................377
Williams, . Thos. W .•.:.....July 12, '30 Orosi :.....................383

Location

Age

San Francisco.. 10
San Francisco.. 12 ·
Kingsbµrg ...:....14
Kingsburg ~...•...11
Lompoc ............12
Lompoc ............ 16 .
San Francisco,.16
San Fra11cisco., ·7
Los Ang~le~ ......12
Los AngeJes...:..10
Plymouth ~, ........17
Sebastopol ........ 9
Santa Ana .......JS
Ocean Park ..._...16
Ocean Park .....:14
Tracy ........:.......17
Alameda ···'·····'·.12 ·
Alameda .........•. .lS
Alameda ............16
Oakland .......•.:..14
Bishop ' .............. 7
Bishop .......,...... 9
Artesia ·····'··-···.13
OrosL................. 6

GIRLS-73

Name

Admitted

Bailey; Anita -··········:....... Oct. 18, '29
Bailey, Alberta ........ :.......Feb. 17, '31
Bailey, Haroldine ....:.......Feb. 17, '31
Benjamin, G loria .....:........Mar. 9, '30
Botts, Eunice E ................. May 2, '31
Bowser, Inna M ......:........ Sept. 9, '27
Bowser, Verna L. ............Sept. 9, '27
Brown, Alberta ......:.:.......July 16, '24
Brown, Eleanor E ............. Dec. 8, '29
Brown, Virgfoia................ Dec. 8, '29
Countryman, Barbara.... N ov. 20, '30
Clark, Dorothea O .........J1,me lS, '26
Clark, Frances N ......:......June lS, '26

Lodge

No.

Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .........:371
Redondo ....:...........328
Redondo ....:.....,.....328
Manchester ..........S8S
Dinuba ......l...........3.85
Lexington .......:.... 104
Lexington ~.....:....JQ4
Dunsmuir ·.....:......297
Los Angeles.......... 42
Los ~ngeles.......... 42
· Occidental •........... 22
So. Calif. :.............278
So. Calif. .'...........••278

L ocation

Age

Honolulu .......... lS
Redondo ........:..:10
Redondo ........::.J3
Los Angeles..:..: 9
Dinuba ......_.:....14
Er Monte :..:......11)
El Monte :.....:•.~14
Durismilir c•••••: •.'.11 ·'
Los Angeles..:...
Los Angdes..:~ .. 1:2
Sari Fraridsco..11
Los AngeleL... · 8 ···
Los · Angeles:.....10

l's ·

594

Name

GRANI!> LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted

Clark, Josephine N .........Apr. 23, '27
Clark, Phyletfla B ...........JU!le 15, '26
Colby, Maxine ................ Nov. 28, '29
Cox, Emily P ................... May 16, '26
Cox, Mary G.....................}aft. 13, '25
Ede, Thelma R............... Aug. 24, '26
Eremin, Haniet................Oct. 16, '27
Ercmin, Zenith..................Ott. 16, '27
Ernst, Gladys L.................J11t1e 6, '31
Fahringer, Helel'I J ......... Feb, 10, '29
Fowler, Alice M .............June28, '27
Gains, Mar;orie................Oet. 14, '29
Germond, DoMy J ........... Nov.12; '24
Germond, Ramona. ......... N-0v. 12, '24
Gittings, Helen S........... Sept. 16, '29
Gorbett, Ruth A._ ............ No:v. 4, '28
Hanson, At.ice M ...............Feb. 5, '25
Harris, Annabel!e........... .}une 24, '23
Hartman, Betty Jane........ Mar. 6, '26
Hedrick, Bernice M .........Jaa 22, '29
Herbert, Josephine L .....May 12, '29
Horr, Margaret................}an. 27, '30
Jordan, Dorothy H .........May 28, '27
Jordan, Mildred' E ...........May 28, '27
Mark, Elizabeth S ...........Aug. 6, '29
Mark, Martha R. ..............Aug. 6, '29
Miller, Anna May..........Apr. 29, '28
Miller, Ruth E.................Apr. 29, '28
McNamara, Anna .......... Apr. 23, '20
Nelsen, Lillian ................ Nav; 27, '27
Nelson, Ina May..............Oct. 23,'30
O'Connell, Afice L .........N<W. 18, '23
O'ConneH, Florence........Nov.18, '23
O'ConneH, PauliDe.......... Nov. 18, '23
Odell, Betty_·-················Mar. 12, '22
Ogden, Ruth Emily........Aug. 31, '31
Par.bery, Alice................. Mat. 26, '31
Parbery, Catherine ........ Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Phyllis•............Mar. 26, '31
Pri~ Maxine J.-··········-Nov. 15, '28
Prim, Virginia lda.......•Nov. 15, '28
Reed,. J.ilL._.......................Dec. 2, '28
ReynDlds, Juliette.............. May 7, '28

Lodge

No.

Locati01fl

·Age

Antioch ................ 175 Antioch ............14
So. Calif...............27S Los Angeles...... 9
Covenant .............. 527 Los Angeles.....,10
Center ....- ..............465· Fresno .............. 9
Center ····-··············465- Fresno ............-lfi
Hope ......................234 Beckwith .....:....14
Los Angeles.......... 44 Los Angeles......15
Los Angeles·-······· 42 Los Angeles...... 9
Yosemite ········- ···· 99 Merced ............-ti
Ascot ····--······-····538 Los Angeles...... 13
Traver· ....:.......- ....294 Kingsburg -.......15
Meridian ..............607 Glendale ............16
Pasadena ·······-·····272 Pasadena .......... 12
Pasadena ..............272 Pasadena ..........15
Silver Gate .........
San I);eg0.......... 15
Ontario ..................30.J. Ontario ..............10
GoldeR· State ........358 Los Angeles......17
Oakland - .............. l88 Oakland ............ 1-5
Union -··········•······· 58· Sacramento ...... 15
Tujunga _..............592 Tujunga ............15
Artesia ..................3'17 Artesia .....~ ........ 14
Military Service.. 570 San Francisco.. 8
Justice ··-··~··-······-~ San Francisco.. 8
Justice ···············-·~ San Francisco..12
Whittier -··············323 Whittier ............13
Whittier ......;.........323 Whittier ............15
Durant ..................268 Berkeley ............ 10
Durant ..................268 Berkeley ............13
Humboldt ............ 79 Eureka .............. 8
Las Palmas ..........366 Fresno ..............13
Montebello ..........451 Montebello ........ 6
Silver Trowet ......415 Los Angeles......11
Silver Trowel ......415 Los Angeles•..... 17
Stiver Trowel ......41S Los An~les•.....16
Mizpah -···-·········378 Los Angoeles......lS
Lynwood ..............600 Lynwood .......... 9
Excelsk>r ......•.......160 San Francisco.. 7
Excelsior ·····-···-·166 San Francisco.. 5
Excelsior ..............lti6 San Francisco.. 6
Holtville ···-·········425 Holtville ...•........11
Holtville ..............425 Holtville ······-····16
Ionic ················-····520 Los Angeles...... 15
Live Oak ···········-· 61 Oakland ............ !Z

:296

Name

Admitted

Runkle, Jean A._............Nov. 13, '28
Schierenbeck, Ruth._.........] ul,y 7, '26
Schulte, Helen..........- ...... ~. :2, '25
Shaw, Loraine.·-·····-·-··Jan. lJ, '23
Short, Beth Mar.ie............ Aug. 4, '.28
Short, Dorothy llae........Aug. 4, '28
Small, Marie R. ...........•.. Aug. 12, '28
Trirui, Geraldine JL.......-No:v..8, '.27
Tyler, Barbara Jane..........Jan. 9, '26
Tyler, Dorothy A.-······- ···-Jan. 9, '26
Walliae, Lois C-·······-·····Jan. 31, 'JO
Warren, Ruth .E.......- .... Sept. 28, '26
White, Marjorie..............J.an. 18, '.ll
White, Yvonne -··-·········~r. 27, '24
Williams, Beulah P ..... _Aiug. 28, '27
Williams, Dorothy Mae..Joly 12, '30
Williams, Irene H ......... Aug:. 28, '27

Name

Lodge

No.

Lonuioc .........- .....262
Oak Gr<We _..........215
Hermann --····--.127
K ing Davjd's _.....209
La Fayette -.-......126
La Fa.y.e tte - ··-···!26
Ascot ---····-·····SJa
San Jose ·····- ········ 10
Palo Alto ......- ..~.34Ci
Palo. Alto ......- ....346
W innedumah ......-W
Alhambra .....- ......322
Fairmount ............435
Park ·····-·- ·-········449
Downey ·-·-····-····226
Orosi - ......._ ..···-···38J
Downey ................220

O"tside Relief Under Care of H ome
Lodge
N.a.

*.Aindrews, Doris A·-··-····---···.Lassen ················-···1'B
Burns, Janice He-lene.....-···-····Veteran ............•.....•.J'/l
. Craig, Bonita ·-··-···········--·..·--Gardens ········-··-····'21
*D....ies, Parker N-...................-Martinez .................. 41
*Germond, Edward M .....-..........Pasadena ··········-·-···'D.2
*Gorbett, Frances E........-.........-Onta.rio ······---···-·····301
*Hayward, Kirkland S .................Burlingame ............400
*Hayward, Stewart L ......- ........,.,Burlingamc ............400
*Helwig, Benjamin C ......- .......-Orange G<ro¥e .....-.293
*Holbrook, Frances D .................King David's ..........209
*Jackson, Ernest ·················-··-·-Le Progres de :
l'Oceanie ..............371
Zahn, Jerome................................San Francisco ........360

595

Loc.ation

Age

LO!llpQC ........ - .. 14

Alameda ···---... 14
San Fr.ancisCQ.. 13
S. Luis Ohisp<t..14
.Sebastopol --··- 10
Sebask>pol ____J l
Los Allgeles._.. 15
San Jose ···---..11
Palo Alto ···-··· 9
Pal0 Alto ··-····13
Bishqp ......- •.... 13
Alhambra ___ 13
San FTancisco.. 10
San Francisc0.. 15
Downey ..- ....11
-Groi;i ··-··-·-······ 11
Dowuey ...- ...14

B egan
February, 1931
April, 1930
June, 19311
Septem!Jer, 1927
September, 1930
June, 1930
June, 1930
June,1930
December, 1929
September, 1929
September, 1930
F ebruary,1931

*Pre:viow;ly cared for in the Home.

Outside R elief, Children, by Trustet1
Date began
Oct., 1929
Mar., 1926
Aug., 1928
Oct., 1930

N o,me

Lodge

Monthly
A.Jlowance

Matthews (four children ) ....Sari Joaquin No. 19......•.....$40;00
Oweas (two children) ....... _...Vacaville No. 134......·-······· 40.00
Wear (two children) - ............Excelsior No. 166....- ......... 40.00
Donald W. Jewell... .................Rio Vista No. 208.............. 30.00

596

GRAND LODGE OF "CALiFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Monthly
Name
·Lodge
Allowance
Cornett (two children) .......... Santa Ana No. 241............ 30.00
Audrey J. Llewellyn..:......:......Reading No: 254.................. 30.00
Clifford A. Stcwart...............:Els1nore No. 289.::.:..........:.. 20.00
Ellsworth K. Wisler..............Porterville No. ·303............ 15:00
Cressie Wisler.......................... Porterville No. · 303.:..:....... 15.00
Bone (four children) ...:..........'S an Pedro No. 332............ 65.00
Bounds (three children) .:...... Fullerton No. 339...:.:.......... 60.00
Vivian E. Greiders..................Palestine No. 351...... - :....... 20.00
Dorothy M. ·Greider................Palestine No: 35L............. 20.00
DeNike (two children) ..........Presidio No. 354:............... 50.00
Walter R Smith, Jr........:...... Occan Park No. 369.......... 15.00
Mary E. Smith:...:...................Ocean Park No. 369.......... 15.00
Robert C. Lavender.:..............Orosi No. 383::.................... 25.00
Pearl 0. VincenL..;.................Yerba Buena No. ·403........ 10.00
Phillips (four ·children) ........Mt: Oso No. 460..............:... 60.00
Abraham Ottenberg ...............:Lincoln No. 470.................. 20.00
Hitch (two children) .......:...... Point No. 503..................:... 40.00
Wm. M. Chandler....................Alpha No. 431...................... 20.00
Wm. Todd ..:........................._.Palisades No. 637................ 15.00
James H. Todd........................Palisades No. 637................ 15.00
Vesta Boynton........... :..............Liberty No. 299............~..... 30.00
L. Jean Martin.........:................ Mt: Jackson No. 295......:... 25.00
Raymond Sherrar.:.:................Veteran No. 373.................. 30.00
Dora Wagner.....::.;;..................St. Helena No. 93.............. 15.00
Jerome E . .Zahn"""···············... San Francisco No. 360...... 20.00
Haviland (two children) ...... Le Progre~ de l'Oceanie
No: 371-....................:......... 60.00
Jan., 1927 Francis L. Carlisle..................Schofield No. 443.............:.. 20.00
Jan., 1927 Thomas M. Carlisle................ Schofield No. 443................ 20.00

Date began
June; 1931
Feb.;· 1931
Nov., 1930
Mar., 1930
Mar., 1930
Jan., 1931
April, 1929
Feb., 1931
Feb., 1931
Mar., 1930
Aug., 1930
Aug., 1930
Jan., 1931
May, 1927
June, 1929
April, 1928
Sept.1 1928
Feb., 1926
Oct., 1930
Oct., 1930
July, 1929
Feb., 1927
Feb., 1927
Feb., ·1930
Feb., 1931
Nov., 1925

~dmitted

During the Year

BOYS-10
No.
Lodge
Name ·
Admitted
Boyer, Clarence................Oct. 15, '30 Alhambra ......322
Countryman, Robert
Harmer ........................Nov. 20, '30 Occidental ...... 22
Kinnett, Dodson Elmer
· Frank ....................- ...... Sept. 13, '30 University ......394
Udell, Ernest D ............. Aug, 29, '31 Pasadena ........272
Lidell, Samuel T ............. Aug. 29, '31 Pa~adena ........272
Monroe, James ..................]an. 21, '31 · Orland ............265
,Monroe, Preston ....:.:..:....Jan. 21, '31 Orland ............265

Location
Alhambra
San Francisco
Los Angeles
Pasadena
Pasadena
Orland
Orland ·

No.
Nam/!
Admitted Lodge :,
Morgan, John Wm .......... ~Feb. 2, '31 . Amity .............:.370
Nelson, Alva Lee......:..:.:.. Oct. 23, '30 · Montebello ......451
Nelson, Calvin ..................Oct. 23; '30 Montebello ......451

597 .. .

Location
San Francisco
Montebello
Montebello

GIRLS._12
Location
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Bailey, Alberta..................Jan. 22, '31 Redondo ..........328 Redondo
Bailey, Haroldine ............Jan. 22, '31 Redondo ..........328 Redondo
Botts, ··:E;uni<;e......................May 2, '31 Dinuba .. :.........385 Dinuba
Countryman·, ·Barbara
Jarte............................:...:Nov. 20, '30 Occidental ...... 22 San Fr.ancisco '
Craig, Bonita............ :.:.....June 22, '31 Gardens ..........621 Lqs Angeles
Ernst, Gladys .:........ :.......:.June 6, '31 Yosemite ........ 99 Merced.
Montebello
Nel~on, Ina Mae..........:...oct. 23, '30 ;Montebello .:..;.451
.
Odell, Betty....................::Aug. 23, '31 Mizpah ............378 Los Angeles ·
Parbery, Alice V ........:.... Mar. 26, '31 Excelsio.r ....... .166 San 'Fraricisco · · 1
Parbery, Catherine E .....Mar. 26, '31 Excelsior ........166 ·San Franci~cc>'
Parb~ry, Phyllis E .........Mar. 26, '31 Excelsior ...'. .....166 San Francisco
White, Marjorie ..............Jan. 18, '31 Fairmount ......435 San Francisco

Departed During the Year
BOYS-24

.
Name
Admitted
Departed
Anderson, Alvin A .........Sept. 10, '25 Returned to mother ........June 19, '31
Anderson, Walter D .....Sept. ·10, '25 · Returned to mother .....;.June 19, '31
Arrington, James W .......July 19, '27 Returned to mother......,...Feb, 2, '31
Boast, Alfred G;.............. Nov.17, '24 Returned to father.. ...:....June 20, '31
Boast, Alvin B................. Nov.17, '24 Returned to father ..........June20/3l
Chapin, Wm. M ...............June22, '22 Returned to mother ..,....June20, '31.
Clapp, Donald . C............. Sept. 12, '25 · Returned to fathc;r ...,:.......:Nov,.l, ',30.
Darling, Buel lI.............Mar. 22, '28 To grandmother...,....,..,....N.ov. 7, '.30,
Fischer·, Douglas C......... Oct. 14, '.16 Returned to mother...,....june 20,.'31
Gort; George ......,.-............ Feb. 19, '29 Retu~ned to father....:.... June 30:, 'Jl
Greenlx:rg, Roy J ...........May 20, '24 Returned to mothe~..,,....June 18, '31°
H ar_r is, John F ....,...,.........June24,_'23, To grandmother.............. :...Oct. 1, '30
Kinnett, Dodson Elmer..Sept. 13, '30 . Returned to mother~: ......Feb. 11, 'Jl
Lemmon, Robert A;..,.......Feb. 6, '.26 Returned. to, In:other: .........Nov, ('30'
Mole, Wesley E ..:............ Mar. 13, '21 " Retu~ned .tci' fath'er.....:...)an'.'3('31
McCabe, Archibald ..........June 4; •jo . Returned ·to ~other:....~ .... :.J~n: l, '31 '
Pressy: Floyd .................:Sept. 16, '26 Returned to mother ..........Jan. 21, '31
Pressy, Samuel................ Sept. 16, '26 Returned to mother.:'..........Oct. 1, '30
Prydr, Arthur H ......:.... Aug. 14, '27 Returned to fathei:......... Aug. 31, '30
~.

598

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Pry-0r, Walter D ............. Aug. 14,,'27
Rey.noWs, Earl R. .......... Scpt. 12, '20
Russ; Frank L ......--...... Dtc..17,.'27
Russ, Edwin W ...............Dec.17, '27
Swartz, Robert W .............June 8, '30

Departed
Returned to father _........Aug. 31, '30
Returned to mother..........Nov. l, '30
Returned to mother .....- ..:Nov. l, '3(}
Returned to mother..........Jan. 31, '31
Returned to mother.......... Dec. 6, '30

GIRLS-IO

Name
Admitted
Knudsen, Alida ..................July 2, '21
M3lln, Ji:velyn .................. Sept. 11, '21
Merrill, Euni,e.................. Sept. 4, '21
Parsons, Alherta..............June 29, '25
Shaw, Beryl F ...................J.an.13, '23
Tappendorf!, Ida ............ Mar. 18, '22
Ward, Marguerite L.......Oct. 30, '24
Wlllgeroth, Elearwr........ May 25, '28
Willgeroth,Wilhelmina.. May 25, '28
Wittenberg, Carol E .......June 17, '25

Departed
Returned' to Lodge.......... Jun~ 20, '31
Returned to mother .......... Nov. 1, '30
Returned to mother..........J.uly 1, '31
Returned to mother ..........J,uly l, '31
Returned to mother ........Jtine 23, '31
Returned to father ............Jwy l,.'31
Returned to father ............Feb. 1, '31
To foster home................ May 14, '31
To foster home.........- .....May 14, '31
'L'o cousin ...........................•July 1, '31

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
T.o the M: .W: .Grmui Lodge of California:
Your· committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the
following report of its activities during the· past y.ear; together with
its recommendations as to f:uture action on the part of this most
worshipful body.
At the last annual communication, you in.structed the committee
to continue the work of gathering and preserving historical information and data contained· in the records and archives of the Lodges,
and appropriated the sum of $3,000 for that purpose. We have carried
out your instructions. During the past year we have earnestly endeayored to cover the whole field and bring our labors to completion.
Bu.t many causes have intervened which have made this objective
impossible of accomplishment. About two, months ago we found that
our funds were practically exhausted, and in order that the work
m,ig:ht be carried forward without interruption, we discussed the entire
matter in all of its ramifications with Brother Wm. P . Jeffries, chail:man of the Finance Committee, and with the Grand Master an'd
r.equested additional funds. After fully considering the rather peculiar

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

599

and unusual conditions which confronted the committee, the Grand
Master made available to us the further sum of $500.00.
For the first time, the committee has devoted a full year of active
effort to research work. The entire State ·has been covered. Brother
Ingram, our investigator, has traveled approximately 25,000 miles in
visiting Lodges from Yreka on the north to San Diego and Calexico
on the south. Due to the wide expanse of territory covered and the
increased average distance between Lodges, .t he traveling expenses
of our investigator were s<>mewhat in excess of last year.
Much valuable time was spent in locating records inadvertently
misplaced. In a number of focalities .it was found that ~he rei::ords
were scattered, many of them in the possession of various past Secretaries whose places of residence were far removed from the Lodge
rooms. While the time spent in reassembling these records .and
placing them in their proper places might be considered constructive
work, yet from the standpoint of historical research it constituted a
decided hindrance, although one that 'could n{)t be avoided, and one
that had not been anticipated by the committee. In a few instances
considerable time was lost through the refusal of certain Masters to
recognize the credentia1s 'of ~he committee's field man, and recourse
was had to the Grand Master, who quickly corrected this conditi<>n.
The records of some of the Lodges were inc<>mplete, w'hrch
necessitated interviewing individual members in order to ·-p iece together in narrative form the ·activities of the Lodges covering lon.g
·periuds of time.
In other cases, the loss of records made it necessary to search
the local newspaper files in order that the Masonic activities in the
community might be preserved and made available.
These are a few of the conditions which were encountered during
the year, wnich greatly ·slowed up the work of our investigator, a:nd
.a:ccount ·for the higher cost per Lodge as compared with ' last )rear.
They explain the need of funds over and above the amount appropriated by Grand Lodge, which need the Grnnd Master saw fit to
meet.
While . the above enumerated ·conditions have at times great1~
discouraged the committee .and have presented "Pl"Obleml; whith ~ried
the patience and tested the ingenuity of our investigator, we still feel
that real progress has been made during the past year. · ·
A review of the year'~ accomplishments clea~ly indicates' that
the .plan adopted of having a full time investigator visit 'the Lodges
and search their records is conduciv·e of quicker arrd better" restdts
than if reliance is pla:ced entirely on rota! comniittees: We ·have
encountered a universal .approval ·of the plan .and purpose· bf' 'Grand

601

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge in gathering and preserving facts and data connected with
Masonic history of California and, with a few notable exceptions, we
found that t.he Lodges prefer that someone t~ained in .~uch work be
sent to search their records: Local members do not have the time
·to. go through .the many pages of minutes in search of material. A
great many honestly and frankly state that they do not k;pow what
to . look for or what to take from their records, notwithstanding the
fact that the committee has from time to time sent out explicit instruction; ··iii· great detail outlining the information sought.
· As the . result of our labors we have now on file in the Grand
Secretary's office complete returns from 280 Lodges. The reports
cover :the histories of all the earliest Lodges, with one or two exceptions. The committee has . concentrated its efforts on the oldest
Lodges for several reasons:
The Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic History was created
for the purpose . of obtaining the histories of the "pioneer Lodges"
of California. While the committee· has attempted to secure the
history of every Lodge in the jurisdiction by the use of local committees, it has not lost 's ight of its major policy. Thus it will be found
that of the complete reports in the Grand Secretary's office, there
are missing only 20 Lodges which were chartered before 1880, or
approximately 50 years ago, In other words, of the 280 reports on
file, 232 of these reports give data on Lodges chartered before 1880.
Another reason why the committee has gone directly to the
older Lodges first is that the oldest records contain the most valuable
facts,. the most romantic stories, and the greatest mass of material.
It is believed that local committees are in a better position to gather
the information in the newer Lodges by reason of association or
personal acquaintance. This latter point · is splendidly illustrated by
our experience in obtaining interviews from the fifty-year members
in the jurisdiction. During the past year we have received the life
stories of about seventy-five of our fifty-year men. The great majority
of these stories have been received from local committees.
Several of the Lodges visited by the investigator have committees
at work on their histories but have not as yet submitted reports to
the. Grand Lodge committee. We respectfully urge all Lodges having
local. committees which have undertaken the task of searching their
own records and which have not sent in their reports, to make an
extra effort to bring the work to completion as soon as possible.
In addition to. the research work carried on, the members of the
committee have been active in other lines. Visits have been made to
a number of Lodges for the purpose of giving talks o.n Masonic history, interviewing Lodge members, gathering information, inspecting

Lodge rooms and their contents .. We found many things of Masonic
interest and have prepared reports of our investigations and filed
same .for future reference. In making these visits members of the
~ommittee 'h ave used no part of their appropriation for traveling or
personal expenses.
.
A brief mention of a few of the Lodge rooms visited may be made
at· this time:
The hall of Table Mountain Lodge at Cherokee has an interior
profusely decorated with beautifully hand-carved emblems, the work
of a brother of the craft. The letter "G" in the east was carved from
a solid block of wood. Occupying a hig.h position in the east is a
representation of the All-Seeing Eye. On the north and south walls
of the room are such emblems as the hour glass, the scythe, the beehive and many others, all hand-carved and artistically .embellished.
, A visit to the Lodge room of Forbes town Lodge No. 50 is well
worth the time and energy necessary in making the trip. This room
is on the ground floor, and the altar, the lights and .the hand~made
rods and emblems which surmount them, and other Lodge paraphernalia, date .back to the early days of Masonry on the Mother Lode .
. Set in the exterior wall of this ancient building is the cornerstone of
the old Fraternal Hall at St. Louis in Sierra county, which was owned
and used jointly by the Odd Fellows and Masons. This huge marble
stone has an interesting history. It is said to be of Italian marble
and was carried on the backs of mules from Oroville. In time, the
townsite of St. . Louis was hydraulicked and the cornerstone ,which
marked the meeting place of St. Louis Lodge No. 86 was washed
down through the sluice boxes into the gravel pits of the old mine
diggings . .It was found there by a lady and used as a door step.
Years later, a brother wandering through the mountains disq>vered
the stone at the deserted house and arranged to have it brought to
Forbestown and placed in the front of the Lodge building.
. The. Lodge room at Hornitos i~ als9 on the ground floe>r . . This is
a concrete .building, having pne window and two doors, and although
this community may be classed among the ghost toyvns of the west,
we found that the 'spirit of Masonry is still alive and active there as
in the old ~ays.
. Big . Bear Lodge No. 617 at Pine Knot is the only Lodge in
California now meeting in a. log cabin.
~ The banquet room of Redwood City Lodge No. 168 is probably
the most symbolically decorated room ·of its kind in the jurisdiction.
The interior of the Mendocino Lodge room is unquestionably
the most unique in California. The artistic woodwork which covers
the walls and ceiling was a labor of love of Brother E. J. Albertsen,

600

602

PROCE:S:DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

who .spent :approximately six years in beautifying and weaving into
.his wcirk many of the well•known symbols of Masonry. .
The sm11.1~est Lodge room to which our attention has been called
is that of Livingston Lodge No. 658, the interior measurements being
27 feet 4 inches by 13 feet 4 inches.

On May 20, 1931, the committee addressed a circular letter to
the Lodges requesting among ether things that they furnish pictures
of the buildings now being used for Mason.i c purposes. Up to date,
we are in receipt of approximately 165 of these pictur.es. We are
desirous of obtaining a complete list, and we respectfully urge all
Lodges that have not yet responded to that request to do so at their
earliest convenience.
Our research through the minutes and records of the Lodges
discloses the fact that many of the Secretaries in the early days were
somewhat lax in properly recording important and interesting actions
taken by the Lodges and the equally important activities of the membership. The extreme brevity with which they at times reported
maios qliestions discussed and decided by their Lodges has necessitated on the part of the eommittee extensive research and the needless
expenditure of valuable time in deciphering and interpreting. their
records. We therefore respectfully urge the Secretaries of the several
Lodges in California to exercise extreme care in recording all matters
which come before the Lodge and which may be record'e d, and to
endeavor to fully and completely St<!-te in their minutes ~11' essential
facts necessary to a proper interpretation of the activities of the
Lodge. Our acts today become history tomorrow, and it is within
the province of the Lodge Secretaries to play a conspicuous part in
the perpetuation of Masonic history in this State.
In our last year's report to Grand Lodge, we requested the assistance and cooperation of the Inspectors in furtherance of the commibtee' s work, and we are pleased. to report that they have responded
approximately 100 per cent. They have greatly assisted the committee
in its investigations and we desire to acknowledge our indebtedness
for the good work they have so willingly performed.
During the past year individual membe11s of youc- committee ha.ve
been gathering material and making investigations into the lives of
many of our early day Masons with the object 0£ preparing and
presenting a M asonic pla..y built around the history of Peter Lassen,
Isaac Roop, Rough Elliott, Captain Hill and many others, including
that friend of the white man and strict observer of treaty agreements,
Chief Winnemucca. This play wi_ll embrace a different period and
will cover events not portrayed in the play presented at Coloma.
We have assurances of the cooperation of Brother Jesse Whited
and his S'quare and Compass players in the presentation of this historical' drama. If it meets with the approval of Grand Lodge this play
wilt be prepared for presentation at the next session of this grand
body to be held in Oakland. We feel that a Masonic pfay based upon
. authentic facts connected with the personal history of these men of

. Looking toward the ultimate completion of this project, members
?f yo~r coi:imittee have interview_ed numerous authorities on history
in California. We have fully outlined to .t hem the extent of our work,
the methods used and .the character 0£ material soUght or obtained
during tbe past :three years. We have been assured that your committee is parstti:ng a plan that should result in a history accurate,
truthful, and 'colorful:ly interesting.
With the same object in mind, during the past year ~e addressed
letters to every· grand jmisdiction in the United States, requesting
information in detail with respect .tti the methods pursued and the
resuhs obtained in .the collection of historical data· in their respective
~~dictions. .Replies wer·.e received from twenty~dght grand jurisdu:t10ns. These 'letters resulted in an extensive correspondence with
the different Grand Masbers, Grand SecretariCj; and Grand Hisfodans.
From the mass of de.tail received, we learn that eight Grand Lodges
have published histories :and we now have copies of thtise histories
on file. Nine Grand Lodges are now maKing historical investigations
and three are contemplati'ng embarking on this activity.
·
We ha-ve had many requests for a detai1ed expla11ation of our
system of gathering rrtateriat Several Grand Lodges have indicated
their intention to carry on their investigations along the lines adopted
in California.
Your commit.tee's ~orre!pondence with the other Grand Lodges
.
quite conc:lusively indic;ates that_ this Grand Lodge has undertaken
the co11ection of historical data on a much more comprehensive plan
than any other grand jurisdiction.
,
. . The c;ommittee is now corresponding with the Grand Lodges of
Arizona, Nevada and Oregon in an effort to obtain their cooperation
in tradng the activities and Masonic history of many California
Masons who have subsequently become members of fh~ir grand
jurisdictions, and also to obtain the same information with respect to
Arizona, Nevada and Oregon members who sttbsequent!y affiliated
with Lodges in California. Mally of these men contributed materially
to the welfate of -the er.aft in the early days and we arc hopeful that
with the assistance of these grand jurisdictions we -will be ab-le to
catch up .the tangied .threads and preserve in our records a full picture
of the eventful liv.es of these brothers. .
.

603

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the early 'days \vho held high the banner of Masonry in northern
Califorriia, will greatly' stimulate· interest in historical research among
the brethren throughout the State.
·
.Earlier in this report a statement was inade as to our progress
during the · year without indicating the character of the ·material obtained . . The following are a few of the . stories dis.c overed 'in
research work during the past year, which may be of interest to the
craft:
·
Shortly after the .formation .of Hiram Lod·ge a( El Dorado the
brethren, desiring to perfect themselves in what they called the
"Owen's Work," se.c ured .the services' of a Grand Lodge officer for
that purpose, paying him $10 per day. For three weeks, night and
day, .seven~een of the members took instructions, and so . faithfully
did they apply themselves that at the. end of that period each· 'of the
seventeen could proficiently fill every station in the Lodge from ·
Master to Tiler.
·
·
· ··
.In l887 Grand .Master Atkinson warned a certa.in Mother Lode
Lodge aga\nst approp~iating funds for an e.laborate . banquet to b~
given members of the Ord~r of Odd Fellows .holding meetings i~
that place. The L()dge corr.ected its er;or outwardly but made an
appropriation of the same amount to one of its comfortably situated
members for the purchase of .sufficient wood to relieve his present
distress. The subterfuge of the donation was discovered and the
charter arrested. ·At a subsequent communication of · Grand Lodge,
the Grand Master -was empowered to restore the charter if satisfied
that the .interests of Masonry could thus be best served:· He visited
the tciw'i:i,· met the brethr~n, reinvested the Master with his je~el and
returned the charter after most emphatically advising the members
to be more temperate . in the future and to refrain from the use . of
wines and liquors at their Lodge banquets.
B.rother Martin, Past Master of Lexington Lodge 'at El Monte,
lays claim to the distinction pf having been made a Mason over a
saloon 'and installed as Master over a church. ·
The rec9rds of one Lodge contain the following rather peculiar
motio,n: "Moved that ,Brother <:J:uisto be authorized to procure enough
cement to stop up th.e hples to exclude the rats from outside the anteroom." The motion .1\'as carried and the rats were excluded.
· ~n th~ rec~rds of \Ypodbridge Lodge No. i31 was fo~nd a statement. and. copy of a letter which .relate .a r~the.r thrilling episode in
the history of Masonry .in this State. Some time during the seventies
a C~lifornia f\fason passed away, leaving a widow and three children
abundantly provided for. Shortly after the death of the father the
widow died and the children and property passed int~ the custody ~f

out

605 .

a grandmother. In the course of time, the deceased Mason's brother
who lived in Canada, heard reports that all · was not well with th;
children and the estate in California. He came here to investigate
and found the reports ' to be true. The large estate had been dissipated
and squandere·d and the children were ill-kept and in actual want,
and he further learned that it was the intention of the grandmother
to place the oldest child (a girl) in a convent. The Canadian brother
sought legal advice and was told that the only way he could obtain
the children was· to kidnap them. This he proceeded to do. He made
his way from San Francisco to Stockton and there learned that
officers were hot on his trail. Being hard pres·sed for time and money
and realizing the seriousness of the situation, he sought assistance of
the Masters of the two Lodges in that city. These men took him in
charge· and passed him on to the Master of the Lodge at Woodbridge.
This· Master in turn conveyed the fugitive by buggy to Volcano and
placed him in the ha·nds of the Master of Volcano Lodge, who assisted
him in safely reaching Reno, where he boarded a trans-continental
train a.nd in time reached his residence in Canada, where he gave the
children a good home. The sequel to this interesting story is contained in a letter written by the Master of a Lodge in Toronto Canada
to the Master of the Lodge at Woodbridge. The letter expr~sses th;
grateful thanks of the Canadian brethren for the assistance rendered
the fugitive, who was Senior Deacon of the Toronto Lodge.
Further evidence of the recognition of Masonic signs by Indians,
when such signs were given by white emigrants crossing the plains,
was ·found during the past year. Mrs. George Harrison of Susanville
clearly remembers an occasion in 1858 'when the party led by her
grandfather was attacked by Indians. Leader Harrison gave the
Master Mason's signal of distress, which was answered by the Indian
chief. Amicable relations were established and that evening a council
was held, with the white men and Indians alternately seated in a
huge circle around the camp fire smoking the 'pipe of peace. Before
the departure of the emigrant train, the Indian chief presented Brother
Harrison with a war club, with instructions to display it whenever
approached by Indians, and no harm would come to him or his party.
The war club was used on several occasions to prevent trouble, and
never failed to be recognized by the Indians.
We ·also found evidence of the existence of an ·organization
modeled somewhat on Masonic lines among the Indians in the Humboldt · country.
In the archives of Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192 is an · ancient
trowel, in connection with which your committee was instrumental
in uncovering a most interesting story. Santa Barbara Lodge was

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

called upon to lay the cornerstone of the first Court House in Santa
Barbara county. Arrangements were made to have the Grand Master
officiate at the ceremony, and a souvenir trowel was procured to be
presented to him on that occasion. At the last minute, however, it
was learned that the Grand Master could not be present and the
Master of the Lodge performed the ceremony and took with him the
trowel. Many years later a member of Santa Barbara Lodge, while
walking along Battery street in San Francisco, saw a trowel in the
window of a pawn shop. He was amazed, on investigation, to find
the name of his own Lodge engraved on the trowel. He immediately
redeemed the tool, later presenting it to his. Lodge, and the souvenir
trowel thus found its way back to its Mother Lodge.
Stories of the struggles of Lodges in the early days to maintain
their organization are not uncommon. Few, however, are as interesting as that of Mariposa Lodge No. 24. In 1856 this. Lodge fell
upon evil days. Owing to a slump in mining, its members moved out
of the jurisdiction in such numbers that but seven were left in the
locality. Jmst at this time a fire swept the town and burned the temple.
All that was saved was an old ark containing a Holy Bible, Square
and Compass~ Determined that Mariposa Lodge should not die, the
seven· remaining members held regular meetings at each others'
homes. On the day of meeting word would be passed around that a
meeting was scheduled for that evening at a certain house. At early
candle light two members would carry the ark containing the Lights
of the Lodge to the appointed place. The ark would be set up as an
altar, the great lights placed upon it, and candles. procured. for the
three lesser lights, and Lodge would be opened in due form, with
seven members· present. This proeedure was carried on for more
than a year, until Mariposa revived as a mining center, and better
facilities were provided.
The committee continues to find instances of unusual and unique
procedure in many of the ea·rly Lodges. Howard Lodge No. 96 of
Yreka had a provision in its first by-laws to the effect that a nomaffiliated brother was privileged to visit the Lodge once without
cha.rge, but thereafter he must pay an admission fee of one dollar
per meeting for each meeting attended until he affiliated with the
Lodge.
Another Lodge, at the conclusion of its regular business, decided
to confer the first degree upon a candidate elected that nigh~ They,
therefore, procured a team, traveled the ten miles to the candidate's
home, brought him back to the Lodge and duly initiated him.
In Texas Lodge No. 46 of San Juan Bautista, the Master at one
time requested that charges be preferred against him. The request

was granted, charges were preferred, a trial held, and the Master
exonerated.
In another Lodge a brother found guilty of unmasonic conduct
and sentenced to be reprimanded, gave notice of appeal to the Grand
Lodge. Later he changed his mind and appealed to the Master of
the Lodge to carry out the sentenced imposed by the trial commission and sought the cooperation of the Lodge in securing a dismissal
of his app~al to the Grand Lodge.
Visalia Lodge in 1868 took steps toward erecting its' own Widows
and Orphans Home, but never completed the project.
In one instance the will of a dying brother charged his Lodge
with the care and custody of his minor child.
In the year 1856, the Lodge at Dutch Flat preferred charges of
unmasonic conduct against a non-al!iliate, held a trial found him guilty,
and expelled him from the rights and privileges of Masonry. The acts
of gu:ilt charged were failure to pay over funds which had been collected from an Entered Apprentice Mason, and the introduction of
certain things Masonic in the ritual of an order know as "E Clampus
Vitus," which was then being formed throughout the Mother Lode.
The records of one Lodge show that for several years the propriety and feasibility of purchasing a hearse was frequently debated.
In 1875 an appropriation of $100 was made for that purpose. Several
years later the minutes indicate that the Lodge was still interested
in a proper showing at funerals, for we find that they · voted to pay
$20 to each member who should make the trip to San Jose to attend
the burial of a Lodge brother. Whether the brethren rode to San
Jose i.n or upon the hearse the record sayeth not.
In Mono County we find a mining district named "Masonic";
within that district is a mountain called "Mount Moriah" and a town
be;iring the name "Masonic." Within the district are mining claims
recorded as "Mount Morfah," "Rough Ashier," "Perfect Ashier,'' and
"Three Ruffians." It . would appear that Masons must have been
somewhat in evidence in that section in the early days..
Many years ago two members of Wilmington Lodge engaged in
a rather spectacu.Jar fist fight; subsequently when meeting' they would
apply rather uncomplimentary epithets to each other. How~ver, they
always attended Lodge and sat together. W·hen asked ·a:bout this
queer performance their answer was that, regardless of their personal opinions, the Lodge room was a place to lay aside all animosities.
The Civil War cast its blight in California, as in other portii:>ns
of the country. Although little can be found in the records of the
Lodges, it is well known that · the bitter feeling existing at the time
was reflected in these groups. There was a marked increase in the
number of trials held by the Lodges · at this time. In some cases

606

607

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Lodges were split and new groups were formed as a result. This
occurred particularly at Drytown, on the Mother Lode, and at. Petalu.ma. In the latter place, during the Civil War, two factions grew up
within Peta,luma Lodge No. · 88. To avoid destruction of t4e Masonic
influence in that place, the supporters of the south withdrew and
formed Arcturas Lodge in 1867. Then, for thirty years, although the
war was over, Arcturas and Petaluma Lodges lived in constant
conflict.
In 1898, when most of the Civil War generation ~f Masons had
passed on, their sons and des~endants, being imbued with true Masonic spirit, decided to heal the breach so long 'existing and consolidate the two Lodges. They invited the older members of both Lodges
to a banquet and seated them so they would be compelled 'to renew
the friendship of their younger days. No one was permitted to refer
to the war or any of its consequences. The younger generation talked
in glowing terms of the future and their duty as Masons to work
together in the common cause. A consolidation was effected and
erstwhile enemies joined together that the best interests of Masonry
might be advanced in that community.
·
. Nate Vice, who gave Visalia its name, was probably California's
most '\'ersatile early day Mason. He was a member of the Lodges
at Visalia, Benicia, San Diego and El Monte. Brother Martin, who
knew him well throughout his entire life, says that Vice was a
preacher; a public speaker of note, a gambler, a horse racer, an auctioneer, and a hunter for the markets, and that the rest of the time
he was just a plain dirt farmer.
One of the most unique characters in northern California
Masonry was W. T. C. Elliott, better known as "Rough" Elliott,
who lived near Susanville and was strong in the Masonic faith. In
the fall of 1857, Rough learned that a prominent brother Mason by
the name of Snelling had been ruthlessly murdered in Merced County.
Suspicion point<;d to one Bill Edwards of rather unsavory reputation.
Edwards succeeded in avoiding detection and made good his escape.
Rough decided to bring to justice the murderer of his Masonic brother
and make the · west safe for Masons. He accordingly traveled to the
Carson Valley and in time ingratiated himself into the good graces of
the famous Bill Thorington gang which had for years spread. terror
throughout Western Nevada and .Eastern California. Rough regaled
the gang with fantastic .tales of purely imaginary crimes he claimed
to have committed. This disarmed all suspicion and he was taken into
full fellowship. In the c9urse of time he observed .that one of the
desperadoes seldom left the hangout during the daylight hours when
returning California emigrants were reported in the vicinity. Rough
was particularly friendly with this fellow and at last succeeded in

winning his full confidence; so much so that he confided in Rough
the fact that he was the much sought for Bill Edwards and that he
had murdered Snelling. Rough immediately .sent word to his neighbors and Masonic friends in Plumas County and they in a body raided
the Thorington stronghold, capturing the entire gang. Without delay
they constituted a Vigilance jury, appointed counsel for the prosecution and defense and proceeded to try Bill Thorington.' He w~s duly
convicted of murder and hanged. Then they took Bill Edwards to
Plumas County and tried him for murder before a similarly constituted jury. He was convicted and duly executed for the crime committed in Merced County. And thus did. Rough Elliott the Mason
contribute his mite, as he said, "toward making the ~est a safe;
place for Masons to reside."
Clay Lodge No. 101 at Dutch Flat merits mention at this time.
This old Lodge has shown a fine spirit of cooperation, in the construction of a vault for the safe keeping of current and past records. The
expenditure of $100 in cash and the enthusiastic labor of thirteen
earnest brethren has resulted in a commodious, fire-proof concrete
vault where all Lodge records are safe from destruction or loss. We
bring this accomplishment to the attention of Grand Lodge with the
hope that the older Lodges will herein recognize a project worthy of
emulation.
Our Grand Secretary, Brother John Whicher, has during the past
year performed one of the finest pieces of constructive historical research work undertaken by any member of the Grand Lodge. Brother
Whicher has rewritten his interesting pamphlet published several
years ago bearing the title, "Masonic Beginnings in the State of California." This has involved extensive correspondence covering many
of the grand jurisdictions and has entailed painstaking care in searching records and interpreting facts. He has settled many troublesome
questions with respect to the Lodge affiliations and activities of many
of the distinguished men from other jurisdictions who during the
early days took an active part in the civil and military life of this State.
He has uncovered the hidden history of all the Lodges which have
worked iri this State under charters from foreign jurisdictions and
made available interesting details connected therewith. Brother
Whicher is to be congratulated on this valuable contribution to Masonic history in California.
For some time past there has been an insiste1it · demand from
members throughout the State, that the committee from time to time
print in pamphlet form stories and information gleaned from the records of the Lodges. Your committee has not complied with these
requests for the reason that our appropriation was only for the purpose of pursuing rese·arch and placing the information in shape to be

608

609

610

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

filed with the Grand Secretary. \Ve appreciate the fact that the great
body of the craft in California desires that the' history of California
Masonry be pubfished and made available at the earliest possible moment. Should it be the will and · pleasure of ·Grand Lodge that the
Committee on Masonic History publish, from time to time, facts obtained in its research, unquestionai>ly the committee to be appointed
by the incoming Grand Mast~r will be -pleased to l:Omply with that
request.
Based upon our experiences during the past three years, we feel
that it will require at least one more year to complete our labors and
we hope to then have on file reports of investigations of the books
and archives of all the Lodges in California, together with the life
stories of the fifty-year members, and a large amount of supplementary research.
Your committee desires to retain Brother Ingram as an investigator during the coming year. His work during the past eighte~n
months has fully demonstrated his ability and value to the craft m
carrying on this enterprise, and to discontinue his services and leave
this w.o rk in its presen,t unfinished state would be unsatisfactory and
uneconomical. We have all the facilities in working order necessary
to the full completion of this work. It has taken three years of pioneering and patient effort to arrive at our present status. The members of the craft throughout the State are now history-conscious and
in a frame of mind to willingly assist the committee in making research and collecting material. To hold in abeyance the completion
of this work far a year or more would -involve the loss of all this
. impetus, and would further necessitate again going over much of
the ground already covered and would greatly delay making available
to the craft the glorious history of Masonry in this State.
We therefore make the following recommendations:
1. That the Comm"ittee on Masonic History be continued during the ensuing Masonic year.
2. That the committee be instructed to oomplete the search
through the records of the Lodges not yet investigated, and to institute ·research through the manuscripts, papers and publications in the
Bancroft and State Libraries which have to do with the history of
our early day Masonic brethren.
3.· That the commi.ttee be empowered to retain the services of
Brother Charles Ingram as an investigator, that the essential information conta.ined in the Lodge records and the libraries may be obtained
and filed in report form with the Grand Secretary.
4. That the Committee on Masonic History be instructed to
prepare a Masonic play along the lines detailed in its forcgQing report

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

611

and to present the same at the next annual communication of this
Grand Lodge.
5. That the Grand Lodge request and instruct the Lodges to
undertake the task of obtaining for the committee, in written form,
the life stories and experiences of all fifty-year Masons within this
grand Jurisdiction.
6. That your committee ·be empowered to work out and report
to the next session of Grand Lodge a comprehensive plan for the
preparation and publication of the history of Masonry in California.
To effect this we have prepared a resolution which we here respectfully tender for your consideration.
R esolved, That the sum of $3 000 be set aside and appropriated to the
work of the Committee on Masonic History during the ensuing year.
Said committee is directed to continue the work of gathering and preserving information and data and to place the same in permanent and accessible form. Said committee is further d irected to do research into the lives
and activities of leading Masons in the State of California.
That the various Inspectors are requested to continue to cooperate
with the committee and assist the local Lodge groups in their research.
ARTH UR M. ELLIS,
MARK A. SAWRJE,
DAVID TULLOCH,
CHARLES A. SCHWARTZ,
LEON 0. WHITSELL,

Committee .

The report was referred to the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and thence to the Committee on Finance.

•

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO CONSTITUTION
The following proposed amendments to the Constitution
were presented and referi:ed primarily to the Committee on
Policy and thence to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Resolved, That section 27 of the Constitution be amended by inserting
in line ten, between the words "each" and "the," the words "On Necrology,
to consist of three members."
That the Constitution be amended by adding thereto section J2C to
read as follows :
"It shall be the duty of the Committee on Necrology to prepare and
present to the Grand Lodge at each annual communication a report of

612

PROCEEDINGS OF · THE

deaths of members of the Grand Lodge occurring during. the year pending, and shall arrange and supervise such memorial services as may be
ordered by the Grand Master."
That section 150 of the Constitution be amended by adding thereto the
following:
"7 A: To transmit to the Grand Secretary with the annual returns the
names, dates of initiation, passing and raising and the dates of death of
all permanent members of Grand Lodge as enumerated in section 3 o.f the
Constitution, and".
Resolved, That the first part of the 6th paragraph of section 39 of
the Consti.tution be deleted, which part reads as follows :
"For 'a dispensation to receive and act upon the petition for degr.ees of a person belonging to the army or navy of the United States,
who may not possess the qualifi<:ations of residence prescrib,ed in section 95, the sum of ten dollars";
and that there be added to section 96 the following:
"for which no fee shall be charged."
To amend section 94 to read as follows:
"No Lodge in this jurisdiction shall receive an application for
the degrees of ·Masonry unless the applicant be a man ; no woman nor
eunuch ; free born, being neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman;
a believer in God and a future existence; of moral conduct ; capable
of reading and writing; having no main or defect in his body that
may render him incapable of learning the art, and physically able to
conform to all the ceremonies required in the practice of Masonry.
T he substitution of artificial parts or limbs for portions of his natural person shall not be a bar, provided such are under practical
contl'l:>I of the petitioner. Deformities or blemishes of the natural
person may or may not be disqualifications depending on the nature
and extent of same.
"Masters of Lodges will be held strictly accountable for the observance· of this law."
To amend section 6, Pay of members, to read as follows :
"At the dose of each annual Communication ·the Grand . Treas.1.1rer shall pay to the officers or to the representative of each. Lodge
in the jurisdiction, the exact cost of transportatfon for one person
from the location of each Lodge in the jurisdiction to the ..place of
meeting of the Grand Lodge and back again, viz. : an unli!11ite<;I ~rst~ ,
class railroad fare, together with steamer or stage fare and cost. of
berth in sleeper when required, AND A PER DIEM OF TEN DOLLARS ($10.00) FOR EACH DAY ACTUALLY IN ATTEND-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

613

ANCE, as ascertained by the approved report of the Committee on
Pay of Members, such report being his voi•cher therefor. But no
payment shall be allowed for the officers or representative of any
Lodge, the dues of which shall not have been paid in full, or which
shall be reported by the Grand Secretary as having been delinquent
in the transmission of certificates of the election and installation of
the officers of their respective Lodges, with.in the time prescribed by
law.
o officer or representative of .a Lodge shall receive such payment in more than one. of those capacities, nor shall he receive it unless he shall have been in attendance at such communication. from the
first to the last day thereof, inclusive, unless excused by the Grand
Lodge."
To amend section 71:
"The Past Grand Masters, appointed Grand officers, chairmen of
standing committee~, and the members of the Jurisprudenc~, Policy
and General Purposes, Grievances, Finance, Credentials, Pay of Members, Charters, and By-Laws Committees shall receive payment for
their necessary expenditures for transportation to and from each annual communication of the Grand Lodge, AND A PER DIEM OF
TEN DOLLARS ($10.00) FOR EACH DAY ACTUALLY IN
ATTENDANCE, in the same manner ·as ordered for the officers or
representatives of Lodges; but no Grand officer, Past Grand Master,
chairman or member of a committee, or officer or representative of a
Lodge shall receive such payment in more than one of those 'capacities,
nor shall he receive it unless he shall have been in attendance at such
communication from the first to the last day thereof, inclusive, unless excused by the Grand Lodge."
To amend section 57 :
"It shall also be the duty of each Inspector in this · J urisdiction
to attend the Lodge of Instruction to be held by the Grand Lecturer
immediately before, during, or immediately following, each annual
communication of the Grand Lodge, and he shall be allowed transportation from the Representative Fund, AND A PER DIEM OF TEN
($10.00) FOR EACH DAY ACTUALLY IN ATTENDANCE, in
the same manner as is allowed tbe officers or the representatives of
the Lodges; provided that he shall produce the certificate of the Grand
Lecturer that he has attended the Lodge of Instruction. No Inspector
receiving pay from the Grand· Lodge in any capacity, as a member or
otherwise, shall receive any pay as Inspector."
T o amend Section 70:
"Each of the elective Grand Officers shall be entitled to receive
payment for the amount of his necessary expen.Ses in attending the

614

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodge at any of its Communications, AND A PER DIEM OF
TEN DOLLARS ($10.00) FOR EACH DAY ACTUALLY IN
ATTENDANCE; but in all cases the claims for such expenses shall
be .ascertained by the Committee on Finances, and be by it reported
on, before allowance by the Grand Lodge."
To amend section 56:
"It shall be the duty of . the Inspector to visit each Lodge in his
district whenever desired by any Lodge, or whenever he may deem
it necessary for the faithful performance o·f his duties ; to -inspect the
work and, if necessary, correct the same in accordance with the work
as adopted by the Grand Lodge ; and to report the working condition
of each Lodge in his district to the Grand Lecturer on or before the
first day of May in each year ; and further, to examine the records and
all the books of each Lodge, and the manner of transacting its business, making its returns and paying its Grand Lodge dues with reference to its conformity to our Constitution and Regulations, and
report thereon to the Grand Master at the same time ; also to instruct
and qualify the officers of the Lodges of his district, issue certificates
to such as are ·qualified where required by law. To require each
of the Masters in his district to convene his Lodge for inspection, and
report to the Grand Master any failing to do so ; as well as any Master
who fails to qualify within the proper time. On official visits the Inspector shall be recelved with Grand Honors. Grand Lodge shall pay
such necessary expenses of the Inspector as may be incurred in performing the duties of the visitation herein required."
To amend section 88:
"The funds, whether derived from fees , dues, rental, profit or
otherwise, are trust funds set apart for the payment of the necessary
expenses of the Lodge and for the special calls for charity for which
it was instituted (except that where funds are donated and accepted
.in. trust for any proper specific .purpose they may be used for it).
The Lodge cannot, by amendment to its by-laws or otherwise, use or
permit the use of its funds or property or any ·part of them for any
ether 'thing whatsoever ; nor can the funds or property be divided
with the members, ·even with those withdrawing to form a new Lodge
nor with the new Lodge thus formed; nor can any of the funds or
property be used or appropriated in any manner toward the payment
in whole or in part of the expenses of any member incurred in his attendance upon any communication of Grand Lodge. Provided, that a
subordinate Lodge may in its discretion appropriate from its funds
any amount for the purchase of a Past Master's jewel for its retiring
Master and for floral pieces for a deceased ·hr-other."
That section 1940 be added to the Constitution as folfows :
"The Master shall then cause the Secretary to procure a lock
box, to be known as the Commissioners' Box, and it shall be the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

615

duty of the Master, Senior Warden and the Secretary to place in this
box the names of all members whose residence is known and is within
such distance as may reasonably permit him to attend, except the
names of the Master, Senior Warden, Junior. Warden, Secretary and
Tiler. The names shall all be written on slips of paper of uniform
size and color and folded so that the name cannot be seen, The box
shall then be locked and the keys given to the Master and the box
to be kept by the Secretary."
That section 196 be amended to read as follows:
"At such special meeting the Master will announce its purpose,
and will ascertain, by a vote of the Lodge, the numbet" of Commissioners (not less than seven nor more than nine), which it sl:.all deem
proper to select. The Master will appoint three members of the Lodge
to act as a Drawing Committee, whose duty it shall be to procure
from the Secretary the Commissi90ers' Box and after thoroughly
shaking it, present it to the Master who will unlock it and draw therefrom a like number of slips to correspond with the number of Comsioners previously determined upon and present them .to the Drawing
Committee who will read aloud the names thereon, and these members shall constitute the Commission selected and the Secretary shall
record their names in the minutes as such. The Master shall then lock
the Commissioners' Box, retain the keys, and return it to the Secretary."
That section 200 be amended to read as fonows :
"The Commissioners shall assemble at the time and place appointed and shall be presided over by the Master, who shall decide
all questions of Masonic Law ·which may arise during the triat, but
shall have no vote in the final decision of the case by the Commissioners; and the Secretary, or in his absence, some other member of
the Lodge appointed for the purpose by the Master, shall attend them
to keep full and correct record of the proceedings and of the judgment,
under their supervision. The accused should now present his answer to
the charge and specifications, which answer may be either oral or
written, and should be made part of the record. In this answer he
may make general or particular denial of all the specihcations of
the charge; or he may deny some and admit others, and make statements in justification or extenuation of those committed; or he may
admit all, with expressions of sorrow for his misconduct; or, in fact,
he may make any answer which to him or his counsel, shall deem meet.
If there be objection to any of the Commissioners, the reasons for
the objection shaU at this .time be stated, and the Master shall decide
as to their valid'ity; and if; because of objections sustained or otherwise, there shall be vacancies or a vacancy on the Commission, the
Master shall appoint three members of the Commission to act as a

616

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Drawing Committee and they shall procure from the Secretary, the
Commissioners' Box, thoroughly shake same, and present it to the
Master who shall draw therefrom a like number of slips as will correspond to the vacancies or vacancy on the Commission. The committee
will then read the names thereon aloud, and. the members whose names
shall have been drawn, ·shall be considered members of the Commission, and they · or he shall have the same rights as members previously chosen. The Master shall then ·lock the Conunissioners' Box,
retain the keys, and return it to the Secretary. Should there be any
further objections or vacancies, the same procedure shall be followed
until the full Conunission shall have been selected. At the option of
the Master, a duly accredited stenographic reporter may be employed,
provided, that said stenographic reporter is a Master Mason ·and that,
before entering up0h his duty he shall be qualified in the manner
provided for the qualification of Masonic witnesses; and provided,
further; that said stenographic reporter shall attest the transcript of
the evidence of .the respective witnesses examined in the course of the.
trial. When the Master is disqualified or for any reason cannot preside at the trial, the Grand Master may appoint any Past Master of
this jurisdiction in good standing and skilled in Masonic law, to presid~ at such trial. Such Past Master shall preside at such trial with the
same force and effect as the Master whose place he takes. The record
of the trial shall be signed by the Master or Past Master presiding
thereat."
That section 56 be amended to provide tl:iat Inspectors be reimbursed by Grand Lodge for all expenses incurred by them. in the discharge of their official duties.
To amend section 93 by providing that Lodges may hold special
meetings for degree work at the Decato Masonic Horne.
A brother presented forty-two resolutions which were referred to
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

SOUND MOTION PICTURES
The . Masters and Wardens Associ~tion pf Los Angeles. presented
the following which was referred to the Committee .on Policy and
General Purposes :
Grand Lodge of California:
The administration of each Grand Master advances the objects
and objectives of our great fraternity. Each Grand Master, at considerable sacrifice, contributes in large measure to that advancement
and leaves the stamp and imprint of his own character and personality
on the · hearts and in the minds of the craft throughout this great
jurisdiction. Be as diligent and untiring as he may he obviously cannot contact all of our members, but science has provided a means of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

617

not only making the . Grand Master available to all the craft but of
perpetuating the personalities of our Grand Masters, thus rekindling
in the hearts of those who know them the affection and esteem we
have for them and .creating a like feeling on the part of men yet to be
admitted.
We ·refer to sound motion pictures. Through sound pictures our.
Grand ;Masters could speak to us long after the Supreme Grand Master has called them to H is Lodge on high.
Our plan is to take a group picture of all Past Grand Masters,
one serving as Chairman introducing each in turn with a close-up of
each one making a two or three-minute talk; thus we will have these
personalities permanently recorded and available for all of our Lodges.
There can be no question but what this would be a valuable means of
creating and extending interest among the brethren.
Being firmly convinced of the merits of this plan we offer the
following resolution:
•

Whereas this Grand Lodge is not now employing a means of perpetuating the personalities of our Grand Masters, and
Whereas science has provided a suitable and practical means,
Therefore be it resolv ed, That the incoming Grand Master appoint
a special committee for the purpose of investigating the expense of, a:nd
to make arrangements for, securing a sound motion picture of our Past
Grand Masters, and the Grand Master and this committee is hereby authorized to proceed in this matter in collaboration with the Finance Committee of this Grand Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge 'of California:
_Your Committee on Returns herewith .s ubmits its report.
The financial depression continues and it has affected the Ma-·
sopic fraternity in several ways.
Due to the failures of banks four Lodges have failed to pay the
entire amount of their dues to the Grand Lodge.
'. Owing to there beirig a reduction of 1,686 in the number of initia-·
tioris this year there has been a ·serious dimunition in the amount of
in'c ome for the Masonic Homes.
And, for the first time in the· existence 'of the Grand Lodge, there
has been no dispensation for the formation of a new Lodge issued in
a year.
There have been 1,750 fewer candidates raised than' were reported
in !930; 353 fewer Master Masons have affiliated and 33 less were

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

618

restored to membership. Also, let it be said, 63 fewer Master Masons·
withdrew.
The gains do not make cheerful reading. The number suspended
for non-payment of dues increased 868 over· 1930; 9 more were expelled and there is an increase of 129 in the number of deaths over
1930. The number of members having their dues remitted has more
than doubled, showing the Lodges are doing what they can to take
care of their indigent members.
Yet, in spite of all the bad news, the total membership shows a
gain of 360 over the total reported in 1930; Few, if ·any, of the other
Grand Lodges in the United States are able to show a like gain. Our
total membership as of July 31, 1931, is 142,422. ·
· At the last communication of the Grand Lodge dual membership
was authorized. There has been no grand rush to take advantage
of the privilege. We ga·i ned 10 by dual membership.
The serious reduction in the number of candidates ought to give
the Lodges plenty of opportunity to assimilate their new membership, and provide more time for the social amenities.
Whether the number of candidates be more, or less, the main
thing is to see that the quality is maintained and all will be well with
the fraternity.

Adopted as read.
Herewith follow's the names of the Lodges making annual returns and the
amount due by each :
Name of
Lodge

Number

California ...................... ..
Western Star .................. 2
Tehama ........................, ... 3
Benicia ............................ 5
Tuolumne .....,.................. 8
Corinthian ...................... 9
San Jose .......................... 10
Yount .............................. 12
Nevada ............................ 13
Temple .................- ........ 14
Eur.eka .................:.......... 16
La Parfaite Union ........ 17
Mt. Shade .. _ .....-~......... 18
San Joaquin .................... 19

Home
Home
General
Fund Maintenance Buildin&

$25.00
Home Tax

$365.50
44.00
224.00
80.50
117.00
165.50
246.50
134.50
70.50
64.00
107.00
95.00
15.00
316.50

$225.00

$650.35
76.80
406.80
143.85
218.90
294.35
447.05
250.65
125.85
117.80
188.90
162.50
25.50
563.05

$182.75
22.00
112.00
40.25
58.50
82.75
123.25
67.25
35.25
32.00
53.50
47.50
7.50
158.25

275.00
25.00
150.00
75.00
175.00
150.00
100.00
75.00
50.00

225.00

Total

$1,423.60
142.80
1,017.80
289.60
544.40
617.60
991.80
602.40
331.60
288.80
399.40
305.00
48.00
1,262.80

Name of
Lollie

Number

W a&bington .................... .20
Hawaiian ........................ 21
Occidental ...................... 22
Madison .......................... 23
Mar.iposa ........................ 24
Georgetown .................... 25
El Dorado ...................... .26
Trinity ............................ 27
Golden Gate .................. 30
Gold Hill ........................ 32
Ophir .............................. 33
San Diego ...................... 35
Howard .......................... 37
Santa Cruz ...................... 38
Sacramento .................... 40
Martinez .......................... 41
Los Angeles .................. 42
Hiram .............................. 43
Mt. Moriah .................... 44
Crescent .......................... 45
Texas .............................. 46
Forbestown .................... 50
lllinoistown .................... 51
Suisun .............................. 55
Volcano .......................... 56
Santa Rosa .................... 57
Union ._. ............................ 58
Gravel Range ................ 59
Plumas ............................ 60
Live Oak ........................ 61
Natoma ............................ 64
Amador .......................... 65
Forest .............................. 66
Morning Star ................ 68
Enterprise ...................... 70
Bear Mt. ........................ 76
Calaveras ........................ 78
Humboldt ........................ 79
Ione ...................................80
Yolo ................................ 8'1
Vesper ............................ 84
Naval .............................. 87
Rose's Bar...................... 89

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

490.95
340.45
859.25
149.85
149.40
44.80
175.80
81.65
745.55
92.55
40.80
621.10
200.05
342.35
503.30
214.15
753.65
48.40
508.90
141.60
42.80
49.75
70.60
141.75
24.95
376.20
510.65
2720
109.05
908.00
122.70
89.70
46.35
443.35
205:75
81.95
113.10
388.40
64.75
59.50
163.75
550.15
35.85

131.75
94.25
226.25
40.25
36.00
12.00
47.00
22.25
200.75
25.75
12;00
166.50
53.25
92.75
139.50
49.75
207.25
11.00
143.50
34.00
12.00
13:75
19.00
38.75
6.75
103.00
142.25
8.00
23.25
260.00
30.50
20.50
12.75
117.75
58.75
21.75
31.50
111.00
18.75
17.50
43.75
149.75
10.25

263.50
188.50
452.50
80.50
72.00
24.00
94.00
44.50
401.50
51.50
24.00
333.00
106.50
185.50
279.00
99.50
414.50
22.00
287.00
68.00
24.00
27.50
38.00
77.50
13.50
206.00
284.50
16.00
46.50
520.00
61.00
41.00
25.50
235.50
117.50
43.50
63.00
222.00
37.50
J5.00
87.50
299.50
20.50

619
$25.00
Home Tax

400.00
.225.00
750.00
125.00
250.00
25.00
175.00
50.00
475.00
75.00
575.00
150.00
300.00
325.00
425.00
350.00
75.00
200.00
200.00
25.00
25.00
50.00
75.00
200.00
325.00
175.00
200.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
325.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
75.00
25.00
125.00
350.00
25.00

Total

1,286.20
848.20
2,288;00
395.60
507.40
105.80
491.80
198.40
1,822.80
244.80
76.80
1;695.f>O
509.80
920.60
1,246.80
788.40
1,725.40
156.40
1,139.40
443.60
103.80
116.00
177.60
333.00
45.20
885.2{)
1,262.4()
'51.20
353.80
1,888.00
389.20
301.20
109.60
1,121.f>O
407.00
222.20
257.60
796.40
146.00
ll2.00
420.00
1,349.40
.9J.60

620
Name o{
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
General
Home
Home
Number . ·Fund Maintenance Building

North Star...................... 91
St. Helena.:...................... 93
Henry Clay...................... 9S
Hornitos ...:...................... 98
Yosemite ........................ 99
Clay ..............................:.101
Oroville ... :~ ..................... 103
Lexington ......................104
Arcata ............................106
Pajaro ..........................:.110
Chico ..............................111
Summit .....:....................:.112
Eden .........•.......................113
Concord ..........................117
Clinton .....:...................... 119
Fidelity ........................:.120
Alamo .......:......................122
Sotoyome ........................ 123
Table Mt.........................124
LaFayette ......................126
Hermann .(....................<.127
Visalia .....(..................:.:.128
Nicolaus ........................,.. 129
Woodbridge ................:.131
Sincerity ..........................132
Vacaville ........................ 134
Valley ..............................~ 13S
Pacific ............................ 136
Crockett ...'.....................:.139
Curtis ..............................140
Grafton .......................... 141
Franklin ..,........................143
Oriental ...:...................... 144
Vitruvius .:.;..................:.14S
:Abell ......... ~ ...................... 146
Eel River.:.......,............:.147
Lassen .....:....................:.149
Molino ..........................:.1so
Woodland :.................... :.1S6
K11ystone .........................161
Harmony ......................:.164
Excelsior .......................,166
Alameda ..........................167

SI.OS
90.5S
53.20
68.90
249.2S
57.85
239.7S
166.45
213.10
241.10
344.05
34.lS
203.00
228.45
36.70
609.60
116.20
17S.SS
85.05
182.60
248.6S
295.25
89.0S
101.7S
99.35
142.8S
67.20
695.65
705.30
62.90
S3.55
87.S5
426.30
79.SS
153.3S
16S.85
187.SS
12S.SO
249.30
31.45
\LOS
499.SO
146.30

13.25
2S.75
13.00
18.50
S6.25
15.25
68.7S
44.25
56.50
66.50
93.2S
9.7S
SS.00
64.25
10.50
174.00
33.00
S0.7S
23.25
49.00
67.25
76.25
23.2S
28.75
27.75
40.2S
18.00
197.2S
194.50
18.50
15.7S
25.7S
119.50
20.75
42.7S
4S.25
S0.7S
32.50
64.SO
9.2S
3.25
142.SO
39.SO

26.SO
SI.SO
26.00
37.00
112.50
30.50
137.50
88.50
113.00
133.00
186.SO
19.SO
110.00
128.50
21.00
348.00
66.00
101.50
46.50
98.00
134.SO
1S2.50
46.SO
S7.50
5S.50
80.SO
36.00
394.50
389.00
37.00
31.50
51.50
239.00
41.50
85.SO
90.50
101.SO
6S.OO
129.00
18.SO
6.SO
28S.OO
79.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25 .00
Home Tax.

Total

140.80
50.00 ·
. 192.80
2S.OO.
100.00 . 192.20
50.00. . 174.40
. 893.00
475.00
153.60
50.00 .
50.00 1
496.00
. 449.20
150.00
75.00 . 457.60
S90.60
150.00
873.80
250.00
63.40
150.00
Sl8.00
125.00 . ' 546.20
68.20
1,281.60
150.00
26S.20
50.00
25.00
3S2.80
204.80
50.00
. 429.60
100.00
600.40
150.00
774.00
250.00
S0.00
208.80
188.00
50.00
232.60
313.60
S0.00
171.20
50.00
1,487.40
200.00
47S.OO .. 1,763.80
118.40
100.80
164.80
. 934.80
lS0.00
191.80
. S0.00
7S.OO
356.60
12S.OO
426.60
12S.OO.
464.80
100.00
' 323.00
.692.80
250.00
S9.20
20.80
1,027.00
100.00
364.80
100.00

Name o{
Lodge

Number

Redwood City ...,........... .168
Mission ............................169
Elk Grove.........,..............173
Drytown ................- .........174
Antioch .......................... 17S
Phoenix ..........................178
Mendocino ...........- ...- .... 179
Petaluma ........................180
Russian River................181
Arbuckle ........................ 182
Clear Lake......................183
Sierra Valley..................184
Claiborne ........................18S
Evening Star.................. 186
Keith ~ ................................ 187
Oakland .............,...:........188
No. Light........................190
'
Mai-in . ..............................191
Santa Barbara................192
Ferndale ..........................193
Mt. View..........................194
Buckeye ..........................19S
San Simeon ....................196
Wilmington ..............:.....198
Hartley.............................199
Truckee ..........................200
Silveyville ...:..................201
Pentalpha ........................202
Confidence ......................203
Salinas · .............................204
Olivet ..............................205
Stanislaus ......................206
Anaheim ..........................207
Rio Vista ........................208
King David's..................209
Friendship ......................210 .
San Benito................:.....211
So. San Francisco........212
San Buenaventura ....... .214 .
Oak Grove...:..................21S
Doric .................:............216
Monterey ............- .........217
Mosaic ............................218

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance ·B uilding.

282.75
740.30
100.3S
29.75
139.40
446.30
141.40
303.2S
96.80
81.SS
45.6S
32.30
49.30
49.9S
161.2S
8SS.7S
77.40
426.55
268.30
144.60
188.80
110.80
103.40
328.8S
160.4S
119.lS
120.60
638.00
31.20
262.7S
97.6S
346.lS
30S.OS
94.9S
262.IS
SOS.00
137.80 .
266.90 '
284.4S
SS3.SO
SS2.2S
1S9.70
128.60

621
$25.00
Home Tax

73.75
147.50
300.00
209.SO
419.00
200.00
27.7S
7S.OO
SS.SO ' .
8.7S
17.SO
41.00
82.00
119.SO
239.00
350.00
41.00
82.00
162.50
81.2S
22S.OO
27.00
S4.00
75.00
20.7S
41.SO
100.00
12.2S
24.50
S0.00
19.00
9.SO
14.SO
29.00
11.7S
23.SO
100.00
92.50 .
46.2S
50.00
238.7S
477.SO
3SO.OO
21.00
42.00
S0.00
11S.7S
231.50
350.00
74.SO
149.00
12S.OO
39.00 ·
78.00
12S.OO
S2.00
104.00
12S.OO
27.00
S4.00
17S.OO
21.00
42.00
27S.Oll
80.2S
160.SO
S7S.OO
44.25 .. 88.SO
S0.00
29.7S
S9.SO
150.00
34.00
68.00
S0.00
180.00
360.00
22S.OO
8.00
16.00
50.00
68.7S
137.SO
22S.OO
27.25
S4.50
S0.00
89.7S
179.SO
300.00
83.2S
166.SO
22S.OO
21.7S
43.SO
lS0.00
69.7S
139.SO
27S.OO
13S.OO
270.00
3SO.OO
37.00
2S.OO
74.00
73.SO
147.00
lS0.00
74.2S
148.SO
22S.OO
1S2.SO
30S.OO
2SO.OO
1Sl.2S
302.SO
400.00
40.SO
81 .00
lS0.00
34.00
68.00
12S.OO

Total

804.00
1,S68.80
2S8.60
S6.00
262.40
1,1S4.80
264.40
772.00
2S2.80
.243.80
132.40
60.80
92.80
18S.20.
3SO.OO
1,922.00
190.40
1,123.80
616.80.
386.60
469.80
366.80
441.40
1,144.60
343.20
3S8.40
272.60 .
1,403.00
105.20
694.00
229.40
915.40
779.80 .
310.20
746.40
1,263.00
273.80
637.40
732.20
1,261.00
1,406.00
431.20
355.60

622

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name of
Lodge

NQiuber

Speranza I taliana ......... .219
Downey ..........................220
Inyo ................................:2i1
Rosexille ........................a22·
Bakersfield .................... Za4.
Brooklyn ········ ···············-~
San Mateo ................. :.... z~
Athens
Solano ............................W ·
North Butte .................... 230.
Covelo ............................'31
Janesville ........................ 232
Calistoga ........................233.
Hope ................................ 23~
Sui:prise Valtey ............. .235
Hill's Ferry .................... 236
G11;i.,dalupe ...................... ~?.
Colusa ····· · ········· ······· ·····-~
Santa Ana ............ ............ 241
Magnolia ........................ ?~<!:
E1.1calyptus ...................... 243
Alcatraz ..........................21'4
La11rel .............................. 4115
Pomoua ..........................2116
Fresno ..........................•...341 .
Alturas ............................248.
1\din ................................;;!®
Landmark ......................ZaJ
Re;;iding ..........................2:54.
Welcome ........................255.
Lodi .... _. ...........................~.6,6 .
Penrhyn ..........................358
Evergreen ................ ~ .....259
King Solomon's ,...........261l.
Tuscan ............................ ~!
Lom,poc ............................ ~;?
Hesperian ........................;?164
Orland ............................~S;
North East. ..................... ~
Galt ..................................'J!,'J.
Durant ...............•............ 261:1
Olive Branch .... ..............269
Snow Mt . ........................271

............................aaa

General
Home
Home
Fwid Maintenance Building

$25 .00
Home Tax

201.00
107.50
41.00
129.50
242.00
329.50
141.50
59.50
223.00
59.50
18.50
34.00
49.50
40.00
34.50
44.00
29.50
79.50
276.00
134.50
102.50
287.50
100.00
186.50
279.50
61.00
33.50
47.50
95.50
61 .50
141.50
59.50
269.00
401.00
42.00
77.00
125.00
61.00
25.00
36.00
355.50
100.50
22.50

300.00
200.00
125.00
225.00
350.00
350.00
300.00

377.70
201.75
86.70
245.15
457.40
596.15
266.55
103.15
399.10
110.15
42.45
62.80
87.15
73.00
62.65
86.80
52.15
155.15
501.20
253.65
184.25
507.75
211.00
332.05
515.15
112.70
68.95
81.75
169.35
112.55
250.55
105.15
491.30
711.70
80.40
146.90
235.50
105.70
42.50
61.20
626.35
184.85
38.25

100.50
53.75
20.50
64.75
121.00
164.75
70.75
29.75
111.50
29.75
9.25
17.00
24.75
20.00
17.25
22.00
14.75
39.75
138.00
67.25
51.25
143.75
50.00
93.25
139.75
30.50
16.75
23.75
47.75
30.75
70.75
29.75
134.50
200.50
21.00
38.50
62.50
30.50

nso

18.00
177.25
50.25
11.25

623

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

125.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
100.00
175.00
300.00
175.00
75.00.
175.00
425.00
250.00
325.00
50.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
100.00
25.00
350.00
175.00
100.00
175.00
200.00

100.00
100.00

Total

979.20
563.00
273.20
664.40
1,170.40
l,4A0.40
778.80
192.40
858.60
274.40
145.20
188.80
186.40
158.00
139.40
252.80
96.40
449.40
1,215.20
630.40
413.00
1,t14.00
786.00
861.80
1,259.40
254.20
219.20
153.00 .
387.60
254.80
562.80
219.40
1,244.80
1,488.20
243.40
437.40
623.00
197.20
80.00
115.20
1,259.60
435.60
72.00

Name of
Lodge

Number

Pasadena ........................ :272
Anchor ............................273
Arroyo .....·.......................214
Oakdale ..........................275
Selma ..............•...............2'/.7
Southern California ...... 278
Hanford ...........................279
Madera ······'·····"··-········280
Mt. Shasta ......................281
Callayomi .. :.................. .282
·South We!!l ...................•283
San MigueL ...................•28:5
Paso Robles .................... 2g6
Witlnedumah ................2Fll
Maxwell .. ;.......................288
Elsinore ......•...................289
East Gate .......................JZ90
Santa Paula....................291
Los Gatos....................... :292
Orange Gtove ................ 293
Traver ............................ 294
Mt. Jackson .................... 295
Silvet Gate......................296
Dunsntuir ...........·.............'2'11
Liberty
Redlands ........................300
Ontario ............................361
Santa Lucia.................... 302
Porterville ......................303
Reedley ............................304
Azusa ..............................305
Ashlar ............................306
Santa Monica..................307
Monrovia ........................308
Delano ............................309
Sisson ..............................310
Los 'Banos .......................,312
Tehachapi '. ....... ,............ ,Jl3
Temescal ......................-..314
Norwalk ..........•.......... .>.315
Sanger ............................316
Fallbrook ........·..............317
Emmanuel ......................318

............................m

Home
H ome
General
Fund Maintenance Building

$25 .00
Home Tax

327.50
158.50
41.50
54.50
96.50
314.50
77.00
92.50
30.00
26.00
83.50
39.00
58.00
65.50
41.50
48.50
454.00
152.00
108.00
110.00
64.00
66.00
302.00
114.50
120.50
192.00
109.50
60.00
150.00
72.00
85.00
102.50
178.50
146.00
86.50
30.00
64.00
86.50
86.00 .
69.00
76.00
34.00
41.00

325.00
625.00

593.75
331.45
73.55
95.65
189.05
562.65
136.90
182.25
55.00
49.20
158.95
69.30
106.60
130.35
73.55
102.45
822.80
291.40
200.60
196.00
112.80
117.20
559.40
206.65
221.85
353.40
199.15
108.00
277.00
133.40
156.50
197.25
329.45 '
256.20
168.05
51.00
123.80
171.05
160.20
133.30
141.20
59.80
75.70

163.75
79.25
20.75
27.25
48.25
157.25
38.50
46.25
15.00
13.00
41.75
19.50
29.00
32.75
20.75
24.25
227.00
76.00
54.00
55.00
32.00
33.00
151.00
57.25
60.25
96.00
54.75
30.00
75.00
36.00
42.50
51.25
89.25
73.00
43.25
15.00
32.00
43.25
43.00
34.50
38.00
17.00
20.50

50.00
225.00
250.00
75.00
325.00
50.00
25.00
150.00
25.00
50.00
150.00
50.00
150.00
375.00
375.00
250.00
125.00
50.00
25.00
425.00
100.00
125.00
350.00
175.00
100.00
200.00
100.00
150.00
175.00
200.00
150.00
150.00
125.00
200.00
100.00
100.00
75.00
50.00

T otal

1,410.00
1,194.20
135.80
227.40
558.80
1,284.40
327.40
646.00
150.00
113.20
434.20
152.80
243.60
378.60
185.80
325.20
1,878.80
894.40
612.60
486.00
258.80
241.20
1,437.40
478.40
527.60
991.40
538.40
298.00
702.00
341.40
434.00
526.00
797.20
625.20
447.80
96.00
344.80
500.80
389.20
336.80
330.20
110.80
187.20

624
Name of
Lodge

PROCEEDING'S OF THE

Number

Hollenbeck ....................319
·south Gate......................320
Alisa! ..............................321
Alhambra ......................322
Whittier .......................:..323
· Corona ........................·....324
Consuelo ........................325
Needles .......................:..326
Long Beach..................:.327
Redondo ..........................328
Vallee de France............329
Kilauea ..........................330
Pacific Grove..................331
San Pedro........·...............:332
Atta ...............................:.. 333
Covina .....................:...:..334
West Gate...................... ,.335
Fruitvale ........................336
Carquinez .....................!..337
San Jacinto ....................338
Fullerton :....................::.339
Oxnard .......................... :.341
'San Fernando ................343
Starr King ......................344
Brentwood· ......................345
Palo Alto.'.......................346
McKinley ........................347
San Bernardino........... .'..348
Sequoia .... .'.....................'..349
Palestine ..........................351
·sunset .....:....................:.352
Pinole ..:...........................353
Presidio ........................:.354
Hollywood · ......................355
Mill Valley......................356
Buena Park....................357
'Golden State..................358
Loyalton ...'. ......................359
San Francisco .................360
Fort Bragg....................'..361
Charity .....:......................362
· Berkeley ........................:.363
Willits ....::...................:..365

Home
General
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

1,337.35
684.60
108.60
438.55
479.55
562.35
157.25
195.80
645.20
237.25
137.95
190.00
148.95
551.50
42.85
228.70
790.00
717.25
139.45
82.75
398.60
229.80
228.85
580.05
94.95
483.70
289.85
460.60
865.10
650.70
46205
122.40
568.80
1,193.95
327.30
133.65
877.10
90.15
378.05
101.95
112.15
548.95
130.00

372.75
194.00
29.00
115.75
125.75
157.75
41.25
52.00
183.00
66.25
36.75
55.00
36.75
147.50
10.25
60.50
210.00
196.25
39.25
23.75
109.00
62.00
60.25
158.25
26.75
125.50
80.25
119.00
246.50
170.50
128.25
36.00
. 157.00
321.75
89.50
37.25
241.50
19.75
108.25
26.75
29.75
151.75
35.00

745.50
388.00
58.00
231.50
251.50
315.50
82.50
104.00
366.00
132.50
73.50
110.00
73.50
295.00
2o.5o
121.00
420.00
392.50
78.50
47.50
218.00
124.00
120.50
316.50
53.50
251.00
160.50
238.00
493.00
341.00
256.50
72.00
314.00
643.50
179.00
74.50
483.00
39.50
216.50
53.50
59.50
303.50
70.00

URAND LODGE OF °CALIFORNIA
$25 .00
Home Tax

Total

600.00
3,055.60
200.00
1,466.60
50.00
245.60
425.00
1,210.80
375.00
1,231.80
375.00
1,410.60
125.00
406.00
. 125.00
476.80
325.00
1,519.20
125.00 .
561.00
125.00
373.20
25.00
380.00
225.00
484.20
325.00
1,319.00
125.00 , .., ,198.60
250.00
660.20
500.00
1,920.00
475.00
1,781.00
50.00
307.20
25.00
179.00
.275.00
1,000.60
125.00
540.80
175.00
584.60
375.00
1,429.80
25.00
200.20
450.00
1,310.20
200.00
730.60
500.00
1,317.60
250.00
1,854.60
575.00
1,737.20
250.00
1,096.80
25.00
255.40
325.00
1,364.80
850.00
3.009.20
200.00
795.80
25.00
270.40
475.00
2,076.60
150.00
299.40
100.00
802.80
75.00
257.20
100.00
301.40
275.00 ' 1;279.20
50.00
285.00

Name of
Lodge

Number

·Las Palmas ....................366
South Pasadena..............367
Unity ...... c.......................368
Ocean Park ...;................369
Amity .......'.....................'..370
Le Progres
de l'Oceanie ................371
Gardena ..........................372
Veteran ....;.......................373
Jewel ................................374
Richmond ...,.........,.....:..375
Francis Drake.............:..376
Artesia ....
377
Mizpah ............................378
Fillmore ..........................379
Huntington Beach..........380
Oceanside .................;...:..381
Highland Park................382
Orosi ................................383
El Centro :.......................384
Dinuba ............................385
Coalinga ..:.......................387
Parnassus ........................388
Palos · Verdes..................389
Imperial ..................;....:..390
East Belt...................:......391
West Lake...................:..392
Balder ............................393
University ......................394
Turlock ..........................395
'Apollo ............................396
Rising Light....................397
Fraternity · .....................,399
Burlingame .................:..400
·Bay View........................401
Brawley .......................:..402
Yerba Buena....................403
Glendora ........................404
Moneta .... :.......................405
Burbank ....................,..:..406
La Mesa.........................:.. 407
Sierra Madre..................408
Honolulu ........................409
o> . . .. .. . . . . . .. . . . .. . : . .

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

625
$25.00
H ome Tax

Total

1,480.20
1,762.20
1,122.60
885.20
995.40

618.70
530.70
461.85
348.70
459.90

170.50
135.50
120.25
95.50
128.50

341.00
271.00
240.50
191.00
257.00

350.00
825.00
300.00
250.00
150.00

364.90
133.50
227.85
169.25
587.85
174.35
106.20
457.70
169.35
309.70
112.60
511.50
108.75
225.00
178.60
261.60
615.00
638.25
91.30
54.40
1,117.50
516.20
606.30
175.60
370.10
492.60
390.85
408.75
324.45
161.95
389.65
103.45
673.70
228.15
130.40
91.70
228.45

98.50
37.50
60.25
46.25
165.25
47.75
28.00
130.50
47.75
80.50
29.00
137.50
28.75
60.00
49.00
69.00
170.00
176.25
24.50
16.00
312.50
143.00
159.50
49.00
101.50
129.00
110.25
113.75
94.25
41.75
107.25
29.25
190.50
59.75
31.00
25.50
64.25

197.00
75.00
120.50
92.50
330.50
95.50
56.00
261.00
95.50
161.00
58.00
275.00
57.50
120.00
98.00
138.00
340.00
352.50
49.00
32.00
625.00
286.00
319.00
98.00
203.00
258.00
220.50
227.50
188.50
83.50
214.50
58.50
381.00
119.50
· 62.00
51.00
128.50

250.00
910.40
100.00
346.00
250.00
658.60
100.00
408.00
200.00 . 1,283.60
. 392.60
75.00
75.00 • 265.20
125.00
974.20
50.00
362.60
250.00
801.20
175.00
374.60
450.00
1,374.00
75.00
270.00
225.00
630.00
125.00
450.60
200.00
668.60
375.00
1,500.00
250.00
1,417.00
25.00
189.80
102.40
425.00 . 2,480.00
250.00
1,195.20
525.00
1,609.80
50.00
372.60
250.00
924.60
425.00
1,304.60
150.00
871.60
225.00
975.00
25.00
632.20
150.00 '
437.20
150.00
861.40
25.00'
'216.20
250.00
1,495.20
275.00 '
682.40
300.00
523.40
75.00
243.20
75.00
496.20

626
Name of
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THFJ

Number

Charter Rock .................. 410
Perris ...... :•......................411
Calexico ...•......................4l2
Waucoba ........................4U
Arlington ........................414
Silver Trowel·............... .415
Lindsay ............................olfhi
Clovis ..............................417
Elysian ...........•...............•418
Upland ........•...................41:9
Kerman ..........................420
Inglewood ......................iUl
Eagle Rock ......................422
York ..........•.•...•...............423
Exeter ..............................424
Holtville ......................... .425
Midway ............................426
Chino Valley................. .417
San Dimas ...................... 428
Pittsburg ....................... .429
McCloud .......................... 430
Alpha ............................. :431
Hammonton ..................433
Maricopa ........................434
Fairmount ......................435
Claremont ......................436
Lancaster ....................... .437
Acacia ........,..................... 438
Tyrian ........................... :439
Standard ........................ 44()
Coronado .......................•«{
Blackmer ..•..................•..44%
Schofield ..........................1148
Carpinteria ......._.............444
Wilshire ..........................445
La Puente ........................ 446
Torrance ..•.....................447
Mt. Biablo........................ 448
Park ··························-····449
Van Nuys ....................... .456
Montebello ..................... .451 .
San .Pasqual .................... 452
Bethlehem •.....................453

Genecal
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

435.45
77.95
164.90
36.60
336.10
360.55
156.95
212.35
484.45
144.20
62.70
334.40
314.40
181.40
165.90
107.45
359.25
69.50
120.65
118.35
90.95
412.75
56.10
175.45
509.65
100.35
117.50
96.95
101.50
279.60
170.50
509.70
200.85
76.90
584.20
80.45
187.10
134.90
472.55
228.50
237.10
340.45
357.55

124.25
21.75
43.50
9.00
91.50 .
95.75
41.75
57.75
134.25
38.00
15.50
91.00
81.00
46.00
43.50
29.25
96.25
17.50
27.25
32.75
26.75
113.75
16.50
49.25
147.25
27.75
32.50
26.75
27.50
79.00
42.50
130.50
50.25
18.50
163.00
19.25
51.SO ·
38.50
125.75
62.50
61.50
94.25
95.75

627

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

248.50
43.50
87.00
18.00
183.00
191.50
83.50
115.50
268.50
76.00
31.00
182.00
162.00
92.00
87.00
58.50
192.50
35.00
54.50
65.50
53.50
227.50
33.00
98.50
294.50
55.50
65.00
53.50
55.00
158.00
85.00
261.00
100.50
37.00
326.00
38.50
103.00
77.00
251.50
125.00
123.00
188.50
191.50

$25.00
Home Tax

125.00
75.00
100.00
50.00
250.00
200.00
100.00
125.00
250.00
175.00
75.00
250.00
300.00
225.00
150.00
50.00
250.00
75.00
225.00
50.00
150.00
50.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
125.00
75.00
250.00
575.00
375.00
125.00
225.00
75.00
75.00
25.00
325.00
175.00
200.00
400.00
325.00

Total

933.20
218.20
395.40
113.60 .
860.60
847.80
382.20
51Q.60
1,137.20
433.20
184.20
857.40
857.40
544.40
446.40
245.20
898.00
197.00
427.40
266.60
171.20
904.00
105.60
373.20
1,051.40
258.60
290.00
252.20
309.00
591.60
548.00
1,476.20
726.60
257.40
1,298.20
213.20
416.60
275.40
1,174.80
591.00
621.60
1,023.20
969.80

Name of
Lodge

Number

Crocker .......................... 454
Golden W est... .................455
Ramona .......................... 457
Henry S. Orme.............. 458
Riverbank ......................459
Mt. 0..so............................ 460
Argonaut ........................461
Paul Revere ....................46Z
Morgan HilL ..................463
Alta Vista ......................464
Center ..............................465
Libertas ..........................4di6
Culver City ...................... 467
Rockridge ... :.................... 468
Yorba Linda. .................. .469
Lincoln ............................470
Delta ................................471
Maui ................................472
Blythe .............................. 473
Victory ...................... :.....474
America .......................... 475
Coachella ........................476
Temblor .......................... 47?
Thousand Oaks ..............478
Golden Rule .................... 479
Fellowship ..................... .480
Mt. Davidson .................. 481
Clarence F. Smith .......... 482
Bell .................................. 480
Albert Pike ...................... 484
Chowchilla .................... 485
Caledonia ........................ 486
Vallejo ........... :................ 48V
Patterson ........................488
East Bay ..... :.................... 489
Corcoran ........................ 490
Woodstock ....................4lll
Garvanza ........................492·
Atascadero ....................493
Acom .............................. 494
Lebanon .......................... 495
Riverdale ........................ 496
Fremont ..........................49?

Home
Home
General
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

132.00
2n5o
120.00
332.50
34.50
86.50
185.50
288.00
46.00
157.00
166.00
133.50
134.00
192.50
69.00
162.50
160.50
58.50
27.00
118.00
207.50
44.00
69.00
177.50
156.50
109.00
158.50
136.00
93.00
93.00
22.00
77.00
124.00
40.00
149.00
47.00
77.00
83.00
27.00
145.00
154.50
28.50
133.00

200.00
250.00
325.00
400.00
150.00
100,00
275.00
225.00
125.00
250.00
175.00
425.00
250.00
225.00
75.00
100.00
300.00
75.00

248.40
490.25
234.00
603.25
71.65
158.05
352.35
508.60
89.20
291.90
326.20
273.95
252.80
352.25
127.30
292.25
310.85
111.45
46.90
208.60
410.75
77.80
123.30
322.75
323.05
198.30
307.45
267.20
185.10
175.10
37.40
138.90
252.80
75.00
286.30
89.90
140.90
166.10
49.90
266.50
304.65
63.45
267.10

66.00
136.25
60.00
166.25
17.25
43.25
92.75
144.00
23.00
78.50
83.00"
66.75
67.00
96.25
34.50
81.25
80.25
29.25
13.50
59.00
103.75
22.00
34.50
88.75
78.25
54.50
79.25
68.00
46.50
46.50
11.00
38.50
62.00
20.00
74.50
23.50
38.50
41.50
13.50
72.50
77.25
14.25
66.50

125.00
525.00
50.00
50.00
125.00
550.00
175.00
250.00
300.00
200.00
275.00
75.00
100.00
425.00
25.00
275.00
50.00
50.00
225.00
125.00
75.00
350.00
125.00
325.00

Total

646.40
1,149.00
739.00
1,502.00
273.40
387.80
905.60
1,165.60
283.20
777.40
750.20
899.20
703.80
866.00
305.80
636.00
851.60
274.20
87.40
510.60
1,247.00
193.80
276.80
714.00
1,107.80
536.80
795.20
771.20
524.60
589.60
145.40
354.40
863.80
160.00
784.80
210.40
306.40
515.60
215.40
559.00
886.40
231.20
791.60

GRAND LODGJ<:; OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

628
Name of
Lodge

• Number

Stockton ...........,..............498
Capita:! City....... ,.......c•.•. 499
Roosevelt .............•.......... 500
Westwood ••••••••••• c•••••••••• 501
Harbor .......:..... :.............. 502
Point ,.:.: .....................! ..... 503 .
Seaside ................. ~ ..........5Cl4
Silver Cord..........
505
Mt. Olive ...............'......... 506 ·
El Segundo...................... 507
Joppa ·.:................ _;..... .'.....508
Benjamin Franklin ........ 509
Cupertino ........................ 510
Sunnyvale ...................... 5'11
Palms .............................. 512
Cahuenga ........................ 513
Argonne .... ::............ :....... 514·
Vermont Square ............ 515
Taft ... :............................ 516
Mt. Vernon ....... :.............. 517
La Jolfa............................. 518
Euclid .............................. 519
Ionic ........................ :....... 520
Piedmont ........................521
Sunrise ............................522
Bellflower ......... :...:........ 523
Catalina Island .............. 524
Geo. W ashington ............ 525
Bay . City................. ,........526
Covenant ...........:............ 527
Beverly Hills ..................528
Loyalty .............. :............. 529
Sun Garden.......... :........... 530
Alexandria ...................... 531 ·
Smyrna ............................532
Azure :............................. 533
Forest Hill ...................... 534 .
Alexander Hamilton ...... 535
Seal Rock ..........:............. 536 ;
Utopia ............... :............ 537
Ascot .....·............. i. ~ ........... 538 .
Belvedere ................ :.......539
Queen Beach ...... ,........... 540
h

• •••••••• •

.

General
Home
H ome
Fund Maintenance Building

111.45
143.40
132.10
178.60
131.25
110.05
309.65
272.80
358.20
167.15
46.65
230.20
86.00
103.35
235.60
300.20
313.25
336.55
177.90
218.55
120.40
284.10
301.85 .
186.20
178.10
170.95 .
125.55
292.40
218.85 .
276.20
237.00
201.65
334.00
116.40 .
59.25
190.65
113.90
117.90
105.60
446.65
237.40
182.45
113.45

29.25
58:50
36.00
72.00
36.50
73.00
44.00
88.00
36.25
72.50
28.25
56.50
77.25
154.50
67.00
134.00 .
176.00
. 88.00
44.75
89.50 .
. 24.50
12.25
58.00
116.00
20.00
40.00
27.75
55.50
54.00
108.00
78.00
156.00
86.25
172.50
171.50
85.75
48.50
97.00
55.75
111.50
31.00
62.00
71.50
143.00
70.25 . 140.50
53.00
106.00
46.50
93.00
41.75
83.50
30.75
61.50
71.00
142.00
50.25
100.50
. 68.00
136.00
60.00
120.00
. 47.25
94.50
85.00
170.00
31.00 .
62.00
16.25
32.50
47.25
94.50 .
28.50 . . 57.00
57.00 .
28.50
29.00
58.00
107.25 .. 214.50
56.00
112.00
49.25
98.50
29.25
58.50

$25.00

Home Tax

100.00
200.00
100.00
150.00
50.00
125.00
425.00
450.00
500.00
150.00
50.00
275.00
175.00
75.00
400.00
375.00
225.00
450.00
125.00
175.00
125.00
350.00
575.00
75.00
200.00
225.00
175.00
450.00 .
375.00
425.00
400.00
325.00
325.00
175.00
25.00
300.00
125.00
200.00
50.00
750.00
450.00
150.00
150.00

Total

299.20
451.40 .
341.60
460.60
290.00 .
319.80
966.40
923.80
f,122.20
451.40
133.40
679.20
321.00
261.60
797.60
909.20
797.00
1,043.80
448.40
560.80
338.40
848.60
1,087.60
420.20
517.60
521.20
392.80
955.40
744.60
905.20
817.00
668.40
914.00
384.40
133.00
632.40
324.40
403.40
242.60
1,518.40
855.40
480.20
351.20

Name of
Lodge

Numtler

Henry Morse Stephens .. 541
Lanker shim ....................542
Signal .......:..................:... 543
r Glendale .•.•.....,................ 544
Jonathan ...2.............:.....545
San GabrieL. ...............:... 546
Arcadia .: ...c.. ... ........ ... ; ••• 547
Triangle ...................... :...548
Justice ............................ 549
Seaport .: ................ ,......... 550
Lakeshore ............ :..... ;...551
Semper Virens ........ ........ 552
Golden City .................... 553
' Educator ........................ 554
· White Pine...................... 555
Fairfax ·:· ......................1.. 556
Hermosa ......•..............<.. 557
Pt. Firmin ...... '. ................. 558
•' Craftsman .. ..... ..... : ..... c... 559
Plymouth :....................\... 560
' East San Diego... _......... 561
• Pyramid _., ........................ 562
· South Park. ............"·····:.563
Foothill ............................564
l West Adams .................... 565
· James A. Garfield.......... 566
r Searchlight ..:.................567
' Park Blvd....................... 568
: Chateau Thierry ........c... 569
Military Service .......:._.570
Francis K. Shattuck ...... 571
James Madison .. ..............572
. Hillcrest .................... ...... 573
S. W. Hackett ................ 574
; Fort Crook. ..................... 575
' El Cajon Valley ......:.....576
Sunnyside ........................ 577
· Progressive ...............:... :578
Warren G. Harding...... 579
·' Santa Maria....................580
-~·; Security .......................... 581
' Rialto .............................. 582
Wasco ...(....................:... 583

.General
Home
Home
•. Fund Maintenance Building

241.00
219.55
301.45
398.25
174.05
140.95
103.25
120.45
163.85
161.25
194.85
110.45
77.55
178.50
74.80
104.30
153.35
241.75
221.70
176.50
200.10
150.15
302.05
180.45
252.15
135.70
361.40
176.60
161.20
259.85
170.25
196.95
61.00
195.45
74.65
67.15
289.85
241.90
122.70
51.90
206.45
99.80
112.75

65.00
55.75
79.25
101.25
43.25
36.75
26.25
29.25
40.25
41.25
50.25
29.25
20.75
42.50
22.00
24.50
'37.75
63.75
55.50
42.50
51.50
39.75
78.25
44.25
54.75
30.50
. 91.00
44.00
38.00
:55.25
. 41.25
'41.75
15.00
49.25
17.25 \
19.75
.. -75,25
63.50
30.50
13.50
49.25
22.00
23.75

130.00
111.50
158.50
202.50
86.50
73.50
52.50
58.50
80.50
82.50
100.50
58.50
41.50
85.00
44.00
49.00
75.50
127.50
111.00
85.00
103.QO
79.50
156.50
88.50
109.50
61.00
182.00
88.00
76.00
110.50
82.50
83.50
30.00
98.50
34.50
39.50
150.50
127.00
61.00
27.00
98.50
44.00
47.50

629
$25.00

H ome Tax

Total

200.00
250.00
225.00
375.00
200.00
175.00
200.00
125.00
275.QO
175.00
200.00
75.00
75.00
250.00

636.00
636.80
764.20
. 1,077.00
503.80
.426.20
382.00
333.20
559.60
460.00
545.60
273.20
214.80
556.00
140.80
377.80
541.60
683.00
688.20
554.00
604.60
394.40
836.80
588.20
1,041.40
. 602.20
1,084.40
658.60
550.20
1,100.60
594.00
772.20
181.00
. 693.20
251.40
..126.40
815.60
657.40
414.20
' 142.40
679.20
390.80
434.00

200.00
275.00
250.00
300.00
250.00
250.00
125.00
300.00
275.00
625.00
375.00
450.00
350.00
275.00
675.00
300.00
450.00
75.00
350.00
125.00
300.00
225.00
200.00
50,00
325.00
225.00
250.00

630
Name ol
Lodge

Number

Harding ..........................584
Manchester ....................585
Garden Grove .................. 586
Valley Forge .................. 587
El Sereno........................ 588 ·
Kauai ..............................5l!!9
Compass .......................... 590
Escalon .......................... $91
Tujunga .......... :............... 592
All States ........................ 59.1
Service ............................ 594
Alexander Graham
Bell .............................. 1'.15
Guardian ........................596
Truth . .............................. 591
Pearl Harbor ...................598
Carmelita ......... ,.............. 599
Lynwood ........................600
Grizzly ............................001
Melrose ......... .,.................602
Dimond ..........................603
Jubilee ...........:................604
Glassel Park. ................... 605
Sojourner ......................607
Granada ..........................608
Provident ....... ;..............flJ9
Elmhurst ........................610
Owensmouth ..................611
Temple City ....................612
Three Piflars ..................613
Larchmont ......................614
Hemet ..............................615
Seal Beach ......................616
Big Bear ........................ :.617
Southland ......................618
Neptune .......................... 619
Pt. Loma ........................620
The Gardens ....................621
Atwater ..........................6t2
Menorah ........................6t3
Fortitude ....... c................624
Angeles Mesa .................. 625
Chula Vista ..... :..............6Z6

General
Home
!Jome
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

72.50

76.00
121.00
53.00
114.00
59.SO
44.SO
70.SO
32.50
43.00
1S4.SO
14S.OO

37S.OO
300.00
300.00
2SO.OO
27S.OO
100.00
2S0.00
100.00
17S.OO
625.00
400.00

6S7.20
717.20
S09.60
644.80
497.40
2S2.40
49S.60
214.00
328.60
1,207.40
905.00

3S.OO
56.00
. 22.75
32.7S
38.25
31.50
22.75
3S.25
42.50
38.00
59.SO
26.00
S7.25
27.7S
30.75
28.75
20.7S
27.25
47.75
19.25
14.2S
8.SO
42.SO
31.50
16.75
40.00
36.SO
S0.00
25.7S
83.SO
31.00

70.00
112.00
45.50
6S.SO
76.SO
63.00
45.SO
70.50
8S.OO
76.00
119.00
S2.00
114.SO
SS.SO
61.50
57.SO
41.50
S4.50
9S.50
38.SO
28.50
17.00
8S.OO
63.00
33.50
80.00
73.00
100.00
51.SO
167.00
62.00

452.00
200.00
8S4.40
450.00
17S.OO
337.60
625.60
37S.OO
22S.OO .
480.80
22S.OO
4S3.60
2S9.60
100.00
501.60
250.00
549.00
250.00
SS0.00
842.20
637.80
22S.OO
100.00
275.40
42S.OO
843.40
17S.OO
372.60
2SO.OO
470.80
12S.OO
319.00
125.00
276.80
200.00
392.40
2SO.OO
58S.60
7S.OO
208.20
14S.20
50.00
100.00 .
166.40
27S.OO
S70.00
429.60
200.00
17S.OO
300.20
S34.00
250.00
32S.OO
S95.60
47S.OO
846.00
100.00
278.80
450.00
1,041.40
250.00
476.40

168.20
23S.70
130.10
223.80
133.15
8S.65
139.8S
6S.2S
89.10
350.6S
287.SO
147.00
236.40
94.3S
152.3S
141.0S
134.10
91.3S
14S.8S
171.50
178.20
234.30
97.40
246.65
114.3S
128.SS ·
107.7S
89.SS
110.65
192.3S
7S.4S
S2.45
4090
167.50
13S.10
74.9S
164.00
161.10
221.00
101.SS
340.90
133.40

38.00
60.SO
26.SO
57.00
29.7S
22.25
35.2S
16.2S
21.50

77.25

631

GRAND LODGE' OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name of
Lodge

Number

Lamanda Park ..............627,
Beacon of the W est... .... 628
Fairview ........................ 629
Ingleside .. ,...................... 630
Benevolence .................... 631
Nor.ma! Heights ............632
Poinsettia .........................63'3:
Victorville ......................634
Riverside ........................63:5·
John Marshall ................636
Palisades ........................631
Indian Rock ....................63'8
Composite ........·.....:........639
Veritas ............................640
]. A. Foshay....................641
La Cumbre ...................... 642
Alta Loma ......................643
Lomita ............................644
A. F. E. Irwin................645
Metropolitan ..................646
Hawthorne ....................647
Damascus ........................ 641t
Florence · .......................... 649
La l3rea,...........................650
Menlo Park. ...................6Sl
Crescenta Valley............6S2
Fontana ..........................653
Jordan ............................654
Monte Vista....................655
Citro! ...............................6SQ
J. D. Spreckels .............. 657
Livingston ......................6S8
La Habra........................6S9
Baldwin Park ................660
Malta ..............................661
Henry Knox .................... 662
Ojai ................................663
Oasis .......... :............ :.. :.....664
Kaweah .......................... 665
Reseda ............................666
Meridian .......................... 667
San Gorgonio..................668
J. P. Jarman""""'·'"""....669

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

11S.6S
l 13.9S
101.90
102.30
168.75
214.60
205.40
101.65
115.80
104.25
187.00
81.40
109.80
70.80

79.75
61.95
299.05
107.45
132.35
117.00
61.8S
197.25
177.55
199.45
65.70
103.3S
8S.1S
170.3S
259.40
158.60
261.25
72.00
119.70
S8.10
98.4S
123.80
45.95
79.80
48.40
68.40
192.60
53.90
69.85

27.2S
26.7S
23.50
24.50
33.7S
44.00
Sl.00
22.25

27.00
26.2S
4S.OO
21.00
27.00
17.00
18.7S
16.7S
63.2S
24.25

27.75
2$.00
1$.2S
41.25
40.7S
44.2S
lS.50
22.7S
19.75
32.75
51.00
44.oo
61.25
15.00
30.50
16.SO
24.25
27.00
11.75
17.00
11.00
16.00
44.00
13.50
15.25

S4.SO
S3.SO
47.00
49.00
67.50
88.00
102.00
44.50
54.00
52.50
90.00
42.00
54.00
34.00
37.SO
33.50
126.50
48.50
S5.SO
S0.00
30.SO
82.SO
81.SO
88.50
31.00
45.50
39.SO
6S.50
102.00
88.00
122.50
30.00
61.00
33.00
48.50
S4.00
23.50
34:00
22.00
32.00
88.00
27.00
30.50

$25.00
Home Tax

200.00
200.00
225.00
150.00
325.00
700.00
300.00
250.00
350.00
175.00
475.00
75.00
150.00
125.00
lS0.00
75.00
675.00
225.00
375.00
300.00
100.00
475.00
3SO.OO
425.00
125.00
225.00
200.00
S00.00
6SO.OO
100.00
S00.00
175.00
200.00
200.00
325.00
175.00
125.00
125.00
375.00
100.00
150.00

Total

397.40
394.20
397.40
325.80
595.00
1,046.60
658.40
418.40
546.80
358.00

797.00
219.40
340.80
246.80
286.00
187.20
1,163.80
405.20
590.60
492.00
207.60
796.00
649.80

757.20
237.20
396.60
344.40
768.60
1,062.40
390.60
945.00
292.00
411.20
..
107.60
371.20
529.80
81.20
305.80
206.40
241.40
699.60
194.40
265.60

. ·l'HOCEE:DINGS OF THE:

632
Name of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

633 .

Home
General
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$25 .00
Home Tax

Total

62.00
18.50
26.00
39.00
. 32.00
41.50
29.00
22.50
42.50

425.00
50.00
200.00
575.00
250.00
600.00
125.00
400.00
450.00

672.40
118.20
302.20
757.80
369.40
788.80
230.80
496.00
614.00

Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

Total Annual Retums ........$131,475.55 $34,865.75 $69,731.50 $115,025.00 $351,097.80
Total Unpaid ..,.....................
. 373.45
100.25
200.50
150.00
824.20

The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.

Total Paid Grand Treas...$131,102.10 $34,765.50 $69,531.00 $114,875.00 $350,273.60

REPORT ON CLANDESTINE MASONRY

Number

Greenleaf .........,;..-..........670
154.40
San Clemente..................671
40.45 '
Laguna Beach ................672
63.20 .
Far West... .......................673 . 124.30
Los Cerritos................ :...674 .
nAo ·
126.55
Modesto ..........:.,.............675
Willow Glen....................676
62.30
62.25
Liberal Arts.......;,...........677
Altadena ........................678'. . 100.25

31.00
9.25
13.00
19.50
16.00
20.75
14.50
11.25
21.25

R. E. ALLAN,
Committee.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M:.W:.Grand Lodge of California :
Your C~mmittee on Accounts, whose duty it is to approve all
Grand Lodge expenses for the year, pursuant to Constitutional requirements, beg leave to report. that we called at the office of the
Grand Secretary the last Saturday of each month, and audited and
approved all bills, claims and demands, as were properly presented
and received by the Grand Secretary.
Lours SUTTER,
PAUL NATHAN,
EDWARD E. CONN,

OTTO G. FREYERMUTH,

v. E. PERRY,

Committee.

Adopted.

At 5 o'clock P. M: Grand Lodge was called off until 10
o'clock tomorrow morning.

Jin 6'rauh ijohgr
Morning Session
' Wednesday, October 14, 1931-.

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of Califo,-nia:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as
follows :
Upon the present«.tion of the report of this committee, at the last
communication of Grand Lodge, the continuance of its work was recommended. As but two members of this committee were appointed
this year, the scope of the work was necessarily limited. It was practically impossible to investigate rumors of clandestine activity in
widely dispersed sections of California. Our report, therefore, must
be quite brief.
In the southern part of the State we find most of the clandestine
bodies operating which were specifically located in our last report.
Their activity, however, has not been so intense, their meetings are
irregular and the interest of their members is reported to be' waning.
The Grand Lodge Benito Juarez of Torreon, State of Coahuila,
Mexico, which as. previously report ed had chartered three Lodges in
southern California, to wit, Minerva at Los Angeles, Hiram No. 45 of
San Bernardino and Oriente No. 41 of San Pedro, has withdrawn these
charters and these clandestine bodies are not now operating.
We have made a careful investigation thr~ugh the work of Brother
John Alpers of the San Francisco bay district, and are unable to fin d
any evidence of clandestine activity save that of the negro lodges
organized under the name of "Sovereign Grand Lodge of Ancient Free
and Accepted Masons of California" also known as " Prince Hall
Masons," heretofore reported at our last communication.
The Co-masonic groups still seem to be operating. While we have
no information of new ones starting, there seems to be considerable

interest in the particular group known as Hollywood Lodge at Hollywood boulevard and Serrijlollo &keet in Los Ang~los.
As stated, we havi:. been consider-ably- handk;epped by the size of
our committee. It is maniks,tly impossible to cover so wide a field as
the State of California with but two members.
Your COtllmittee feels t'1aJ this work should not be abandoned.
While there may be at present a decline of interest in these clandestine
bodies, a return to nprmal ecopom.ic copditions will undoubted.ly result
in a revival of activity. Also we feel that we have not exhausted all the
sources of information regarding these bodies nor discovered alt who
are operatipg a$ suc.4 ,
Your committee, therefore, respectfully recommends that a committee of at least five members be constituted, representing all of the
more distant p;ir.ts of the Sta,t.e, that the woi:k of investigation be
continued and that a complete and exhaustive report be rendered at
the next communication of Gr.and Lodge.
W.ILLIAM•A. ScatunDER,
JoHN ALPERS,
Committee.

Referre.d to th~ Comrnitte_e on Policy and, General Purposes, which. comm.ittee later i;.eported, coucurrip,g in the
above rec-0mme:ndation, and t-he report and re(X)mmendation
were adopted.

REPORT · OF COMMITTEE ON LIBRARY
To the M.'. W.' ., Grat1d Lodge of Californip.:
It would seem quite unnecessary for me at this tiJIIe, to apologize
for a season of in;i.ctivity on the part of your Cbmmittee on Library,
bec~use o.f condi~ions. governin~ the condµ.i:t of such committee.
~oney h~s- bee.n. "tis.ht" i.n conSDnam:e with a like dis.positioii on
the part of your Committee on Finance.
. Ho.wever, it is Qt1ite· lilcely that such funds, failing the Library
Committee, have been made use of_ for the more noble -and glorious
purp.ose of relievi,ng-as f;i.r as poss~ble-the distress apparent far and
widi;, during the past year of unusual nnapcial depression.
fuN?.fAN

s. W.AGS'l'Af'F,
Chairman,

~

Adopted.
. .
.

635

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING.$ OF THE

634

REPORT OF ENDOWMENT COMMITTEE
To the M.'. W .'. Gratid L odge of Calif ornia:
Your Committee on Endowment respectfully reports. The donations for the year were as follows:
Estate of Chtistirte Breon ....................cash $ 4,854.82
of Christine Breon .................. bonds 11,000.00
of Christine Bteon.................. stocks 29,520.00
100.00
of Edward G. Bolton ........................
of Fred M. Strom ..............................
7,070.00
of Clarence Falk ................................ 2,000.00
200.00
of Warren 'M. Pearse ........................
of Giacoma Garibaldi........................
100.00
·"
of W. A. Stephenson ....................... .
1,500.00
of F. E. Studley................................. .
5.21
of E. R. Fletcher ................................
6.92
of William A. Halsted .......... bonds
2,000.00
1,000.00
of Edward L. Siller ............................
"
of M. D. Wisnom ........................u····
500.00
Edgar Nave........................................................
1.00
Frank G. Watson..............................................
105.GO
McCloud Lodge No. 430................................
125.00
Atascadero Lodge No. 493..............................
20.00
The fund now amounts, cash and securities, $694,852.58, an increase for the fiscal year ending Ju ly 31, 1931 of $61,828.50.
Time is rapidly approaching when we should manifest our charity
by doing our part toward the unfortunate brethren, bereaved widows
and helpless orphans. They are our dependent wards-a heritage, and
we must not, under our solemn obligation, overlook the blessed privilege of doing them good. Can we not, year by year, spare something
toward the endowment fund until it is sufficient to carry on our great
work, the loving care of our indigent brethren, widows and children ?
This subject is most worthy of you r deliberation and consideration. It
rests entirely with you to determine whethel" future generations shall
point with honorable pride to your unselfish charity.
To give is really a little thing to do where much good is done:
Yet on the ear of Him who thought to die unmourned, that knowledge
of giving will fall like sweet music.
GEORGE M. PERINE,
THOMAS FLINT,
EzRA DEcoTo,
WILLIAM I. KOHNKE,
LEMUEL L. TEST,
juuus GABRIEL,
HARRY L. SIMON,

Adopted.

Committee.

PROCEEbiNGS OF' TH~

0RAND LODGE OF CAL11<'0RN1A

REPORT ON LASSEN MONUMENT

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BUILDING .
PROJECTS

.

.

Past Grand Master Wollenberg, for the Committee on
·Lassen Monument," ~ade a .~e.rbal report, recommending .
that no further activities be pursued at this time towards
securing a deed to the land on which the monument is situated, and that the committee be discharged. The recommendation was adopted.

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:

The following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of
the Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 1931:
,

RECEIPTS

October 1, 1930, balance on hand (cash and securities) ..... ~ ......$27,752.82
From rentals ····-············ .............:................................................ 49,990.00
From interest bank balances...................................- .....,.;.....
41.74
Froµi interest on bonds........... ~......., .............................. ~········ 1,215.46
Refund on taxes .............................,..........................................
170.06
Pre~iun,i on sale of bonds....................................~.................
675.00
"$79,845.08
DISBURSEMENTS

Taxes ·........:....... :........... ~ ....~ .....:.. :....:..:..........:........$· 8,484.00
Current expens·e.:·.................................................. 5,309.76
Repairs and improvements.............'................... 11,584.91
Superi"ntendent and salaries ................ ~............. 10,898.15
Insurance ......... ~ .....................:......................·........
322.33
Dividends .............................................................. · 4,652.23
Accrued interest on bonds bought..................
242)3
Notes payable..........:........... :.:...............................
950.00 $42,444.11
Balance on hand September 30; 1931 (cash and securities) ....$37,400.97
During the year extensive improvements. and replacements were
made. The enth:e ventilating system has been rebuilt and extended,
the boilers and heating modernized, all vestibules and hallways above
the first floor refinisl:ied, elevators overhauled and sundry other
changes made _to meet present day conditions. Because of the rebuilding of the lodge_room on the fifth floor new tenants have been secured.

W. P. FILMER, President.

Received and ordered of record.

637

T<J the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California :
At the beginning of the· year our committee consisted of Brothers
William P. Filmer, Grand Treasurer, W. P. Jeffries, Chairman of
Finance Committee, and Robert Greig. On the 9th of April, Brother
Filmer wrote me that Brother Robert Greig had been killed by an
automobile. In the passing of Brother Greig the committee lost the
advice and support of a very loyal member. He was so situated that
he could visit the communities throughout northern and central California, and his genial manner always won the confidence of the
. brethren in the community which he visited. The committee deeply
regrets the passing of Brother Greig as a member of the Grand Lodge
and his services for this committee, on which he had served since its
inception.
During the year ending September 30, 1931, twelve Lodges or
Temple Associations have conducted correspondence with your comm ittee. A few of these were only inquiries as to how to proceed to
raise funds for a building, or to ask the committee their views on
different financial problems.
The committee has reviewed and approved the erection of buildings, or the purchase of real estate, as follows:
Grafton Lodge No. 141, F. & A. M., situated at Knights Landing :
On April 15, 1931, this Lodge was given permission to invest in stock
in the Grafton Masonic Hall Association. The by-law s of the Association provide as follows:
"Stock subscriptions: The right of subscribing to the
capital stock of the corporation shall be confined exclusively
to Grafton Lodge No. 141, F. & A. M. and to its m,embers,
and to Grafton Chapter No. 379, 0. E. S., and its members."
The Association · was incorporated for $20,000 and the par value
of the shares is $10.00 each. The stock was sold with the aim that
· Grafton Lodge No. 141, F. & A. M. should ultimately become the
holder of all of the stock.
The Association purchased a lot, 60 x 120, in the center of the
town of Knights Landing, for which they paid $1,800.00. The estimate
of the cost of their building is $15,000.00. They were given permission
to borrow $7,000.0tl from the Bank of Yolo, at Woodland, on a first
mortgage, cin a twenty-year repayment plan. Under date of September 21, 1931, the Association reported that they had proceeded as
above outlined, and that the build ing was under construction.
Clovis Lodge No. 417, F. & A. M., situated at Clovis: On December 1, 1930, this Lodge was given permission to purchase a property

638

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

100 x 140 on the corner of DeWitt and Fifth streets, in the town of
Clovis, which had formerly been owned by the Presbyterian church,
for the sum of $4000.00, free and clear. The committee was informed
that the building had originally cost in excess of $16,000 to build, but
as the church was no longer using the property, it could be bought at
great sacrifice.
At the time of the purchase, Clovis Lodge had on hand in excess
of $40GO, .and permission was given to the Lodge to pay $3000 cash
and to give back a mortgage for $1000, due on or before five years
at 5%.
Under date of September 12, the Lodge informed your committee
that they had converted the building into a Masonic hall at a very
small expense, all work having been done by members, and that a
recent appraisal had valued the property in excess of $20,000.00.
Pittsburg Lodge No. 429, F. & A. M., situated at Pittsburg: On
January 15, 1931, this Lodge was given permission to purchase a piece
of property 90 x 90, located in the town of Pittsburg, for the sum of
$2,750.00. At that time, the Lodge had cash in the bank in the amount
of $6,200.00. The Lodge contemplated proceeding to raise funds to
build a building to cost from $10,GOO to $15,000, but under date of
October 5, 1931, the Lodge informed your committee that while they
had purchased the lot and paid cash for the same, they did not feel
that they should proceed to build a temple until financial conditions
improved.
Sanger Lodge No. 316, F. & A. M., situated at Sanger: On
December 27, 1930, this Lodge was given permission to purchase a
two-story buiding on the corner of Seventh and "M" streets in the
town of Sanger, for the sum of $11,000.00, the property being 70 x 74.
Qn June 24, 1931, your committee authorized the Lodge to proceed to remodel the building at an estimated cost of $10,000.00. At the
time of giving permission to purchase the property, the Lodge had on
hand in excess of $9,000, since which time they have raised an additional $5,000 from their members. When the remodeling of the· building is completed, they estimate that the entire property will have a
value of $24,G00.00, on which there will be an indebtedness to a private
individual of $10,000, with interest at 7%. This indebtedness is to be
paid at the rate of. $500.00 a year for the first five years, and $1,000
a year thereafter. This Lodge shows a steady financial growth during
the past several years.
Santa Paula Lodge No. 298, F. & A. M., situated at Santa Paula :
Under date of September 18, 1931, this Lodge reported that their
build ing had been entirely completed, and they expected to dedicate
the same on the evening of September 21, 1931. They estimated their
cost as follows:

639

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Real estate ················Y···········.............................$ 8,753.09
Building ...................... ,......................................... 42,215.80
Furnishings ..... :.................................................. 10,480.56
$71,449.45

Against this property there was an indebtedness of $25,000 to t~e
Security-First National Bank, for five years at 6%. The mortgage is
offset by subscription notes receivable maturing within five years a~d
aggregating $9,00G; and there is a reserve above the general· fund m
the Lodge of $3,000, leaving a net indebtedness of $13,000 at the conclusion of the building program. Their funds were raised as follows:
Cash from Lodge funds ..................................$16,837.45
Cash donatiOftS: ................................................... 10,855.00
Subscription notes .............................................. 15,440.00
Furnishings on hand and donated................ 3,317.00
Mortgage note .................................................... 25,000.00
$71,449.45

Martinez Lodge No. 41, F. & A. M., situated at Martine~: .In
1930 permission· was given to this Lodge to proceed to erect a bu1ldmg
estimated to cost not to exceed $43,500, and on July 18, 1931 the Lodge
reported that its building had been completed and they submitted the
following financial statement:
Investment in temple and equipment... ......... $43,976.10
Cash in building fund...................................... 1,282.76
$45,258.86
Indebtedness first mortgage due to American Trust Co., 6% per annum .............. $ 5,607.83
Unsecured indebtedness due brethren of
Martinez Lodge, 4% per annum ............ 11,496.00
$17,103.83

Tuscan Lodge No. 261, F. & A. M., situated at Williams: Under
date of October 1, the building committee of this Lodge reported that
their project was entirely completed except the banquet room, and at
a cost of $29,341.00. The value of the lot on which the building is
located is $15,000. The value of other real estate which was leased,
$15,000. Total, $59,341.GO.
Against this there was a mortgage in the amount o~ $27,500. There
was other indebtedness in the amount of $4,731. This Lodge has a
very substantial income from rentals and will undoubtedly be able to
,retire its indebtedness withoµt ilny serioµs trouble.

640

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, F. & A. M., situated in San Diego:
On March 4, 1931, permission was given to this Lodge to proceed
with their building. This Lodge at that time had a membership of
approximately 700, and in June, 1930, approximately 450 members
subscribed to beneficial loan certificates, the amount aggregating $73,539. These are .non-interest bearing certificates, the Lodge plec\ging
itself to repay the same on the death of the subscriber.
The chairman of the Finance Committee of Silver Gate Masonic
Temple ·Building Fund reported that on September 1, 1931, there had
been paid in on these subscriptions, $22,053.85, and while some of the
pledges were delinquent, none had been repudiated and they expected
ultimately to collect practically the entire amount. They invested
$12,000 in real estate, and. the.ir contract for building is $55,000, making
a total cost of $67,000.
When the project is completed, they do not expect to owe more
than $25,0CO, which will ultimately be retired by the payment of
pledges, so that their project will be free and clear of debt.
Santa Ana Masonic Temple Association, Ltd., situated at Santa
Ana: On October 2, 1931, Santa Ana Masonic Temple Association,
Ltd., dedicated its new home. This, by far, is .t he largest building
which has been financed under the supervision of your committee
since it . was first organized.
Before Santa Ana started its building project, the temple committee, consisting of Brothers Whitson, Mead, Hill and Hoffman,
consulted with your committee, and the first question asked was how
much they could .borrow towards building their new temple. Your
committee replied that is the wrong question, the right question being
how little could they get along with.
At that time, Santa Ana owned a well situated corner, 90 x 117,
on, which was standing their old temple, and on which they have
erected their new building.
The brethren of Santa Ana, in two campaigns, one for the building and the other for furnishings, received pledges for the sale of stock
and gifts amounting to $210,877, on which, up to. September 30, 1931,
they had collected in cash, $156,764.75, approximately 75%, and they
believe that there will be a . shrinkage of less than 10%.
The total cost of the new Temple in Santa Ana is as follows:
Building ......................................................... ,.... $185,0SR 1I
Land ......................... :........................................ :. 63,000.00
Furniture ....... c..................... i '............................,. 33, 166.49
Total ,... :............................... :.: .... ;...:.. "...... $281,W.60

.,,

641

Their total net liabilities at the present time are $57,501.74. They
still have uncollected pledges amounting to $54, 112.25, on which they
are .sure tha.t they will collect at least $35,000.00.
Pending the collection of these pledges, they borrowed from the
Pacific Mutual Life Ins. Co. $35,000, on a mortgage at 6%. When the
entire financial book is closed they will find that their fixed indebtedness will be from 70% to 10% of the value of the project.
Your committee congratulates the Masonic fraternity of Santa
Ana on the excellent man.ner in which the financing of the new temple
has been handled, and strongly recommend that other communities
endeavor to ·emulate their example.
At this time your committee desires to reiterate that its principal
aim is to be helpful and constructive, keeping in mind the one thought
that the downfall of nations, as well as individuals, is the contracting
of excessive debts. Not "How much can you borrow, but how little
can you get along with" should be our slogan.
WM. P. JEFFRIES,
WILLIAM

P. FILMER,
Committee.

Adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND
LECTURER'S REPORT
To the M:. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The committee to whom the report of the Grand Lecturer was
referred, herewith submits its report. The report which the Grand
Lecturer presented is his twenty-fourth .annual report. For almost a
quarter ~f a century this sincere and loyal man has faithfully served
the Lodges of this jurisdiction. His efforts in behalf of Masonry in
this jurisdiction have been untiring, and no task has been too difficult
for him to undertake which would promote the welfare of the Lodges.
The high standard of proficiency achieved by the Lodges in their
ritualistic work is visible evidence, not only of the skill and ability of
our Grand Lecturer, but also of the hearty cooperation which the
Lodges count it a privilege to give him.
This committee concurs with that part of his report which recommends that section .115 of the Constitution be amended so that a
Lodge can confer only three first degrees, three second degrees, or
one third degree on candidates at one time and in one day. It is the
recommendation of this committee that this portion of the. Grand Lecturer's report be referred to the Co~mittce on Policy and General

642

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAXD LODGE OF CALIFORXIA

Purposes for consideration, and to the· Committee on Jurisprudence
to draft the necessary legislation.
We note with satisfaction that Officers Associations have been
formed in. the different Inspectorial districts .. We heartily concur in
this program initiated by the Grand Master and promoted by the
Grand Lecturer, and we commend it to the officers of the various
Lodges.
We recommend that that ·part of the Gr.and Lecturer's report
refe!'f'ing to the consolidation of certain Lodges which are having a
hard time to e~ist, be referred to the Grand Master with such committee assistance as he .may deem adv.isable, to consult with these
Lodges as opportunity q.ffords and determine if consolidation plans
can be work~d out to the satisfaction of the Lodges concerned.
The healthy and prosperous condition of the Lodges is, we believe,
due in a large measure to the help and advice given by the Grand
Lecturer. We sincerely hope that he may .find it possible to serve the
fraternity for many, many years to come.
DWIGHT W. STEPHENSON,
ARCHIBALD

J. CLOUD,

LLOYD E. WILSON,

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF U. C." L. A. CLUB HOUSE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the University
of California at Los Angeles fraternally submit their report for the
year ending September 30, 1931. There was received from Grand
Lodge, after our last communication, from the collection of the per·
capita tax for that purpose, the sum of $10,545.45. To this should be
added the sum of $63.22 remaining in the fund from the previous year
~nd the sum of $147.63 interest earned thereon,. making a · total maintenance f.u.nd of $10,756.30. During the same period we expended for
maintenance and general upkeep the sum of $9,078.98. The item of
general upkeep includes equipment and replacements for the year.
During the year outstanding pledges in the sum of $2,013.60 were paid
and interest on campaign funds in the sum of $309.89 was . earned.
The expense connected with this fund amounted to $432.79 making a
total expense for the year of $9,511.77. There remains in the pledge
account, assuming that it shall be realized as explained in a subsequent. par.agraph, $11,369.35 with about $7,000 in unpaid pledges.

643

Your Board had authorized certain improvements to be made and
contracts had been let just previously to the closing of the United
States National Bank, where our funds were on deposit. Fortunately
no work had been done and no materials actually supplied and we
were able to defer their execution until we shall recover these deposits.
In other words, there is impounded in the United States National
Bank funds aggregating $13,046.67. From all the information we can
secure it is probable that we shall lose a very small percentage, if
anything, of this sum, the estimates of shrinkage varying from 10%
to nothing. We were also fortunate in this, that we had invested
$1,000 of the sum of $1,063.22 remaining in the maintenance account
September 30, 1930, in a first mortgage certificate paying us 6% and
were able to borrow sufficient funds to carry us over at the same rate
of interest we were receiving.
Another unfortunate occurrence took place on September 19.
Mrs. Kempton, whom we have had occasion heretofore to commend
for her genial, efficient and motherly supervision of the clubhouse in
her capacity as resident hostess, was stricken with acute appendicitis
necessitating an immed:ate operation. She returned to the clubhouse,
however, on October 7. No interruption of the activities and service,
being rendered to the students, occurred however, due to the fortunate
fact that Mrs. Kempton's sister had just resigned a position of many
years' standing and was able to substitute for her sister during the
enforced absence. We are glad to report at this time that Mrs. Kempton is mending rapidly and will shortly be as vigorous and active as
usual.
We estimate the budget for the ensuing year as follows:
Salaries: Resident hostess ..................................................$1,800.00
Superintendent of building....,......................... 720.00
Janitorial assistance............................................ 600.00
Office assistance.................................................. 750.00
Bookkeeping ........................................................ 250.00
Gardening .................................. ~... ......... ............ 120.00
Service Charges: Heat and light................... :................ 800.00
Telephones ...........................;.............. 150.00
Water ....................................................
60.00
Supplies: Office.................................................................... 100.00
Postage ................................................................
50.00
Janitor's .............................................................. 100.00
General Charges: Taxes .................................................... 1,200.00
Insurance ............................................ 530.00
General upkeep .................................. 1,500.00
Newspapers and periodicals............
80.00

644

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Miscellaneous expense ...;.............. :.. .
Furniture replacement reserve ....... .
Depreciation of building fund ........

400.00
500.00
750.00

$10,460.00

Five vacancies occurred in the Board during the ye.a r, and those
whose terms expired were reappointed so that it remains the .same as
last year, the members thereof being: ·The Most Worshipful John
Stuart Ross, Past Grand Master Will H. Fischer, Brothers Frank X.
Pfaffinger, Chas. H. Dodds, .Elmer E. Beckman, secretary, Marco R.
'Newmark, Perry W. Weidner, treasurer, Walter L. Berger, J;Jen G.
Wright, Thomas B. Buchan, William S. McFadden, C. H. Robison,
Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller, and Ira F. Thompson.
During the y.ear the ciut>ho,use was the recipient of a very beautiful radio from the Grand C~apter Order of Eastern Star and $500
from the Grand Chapter Royal Arch Masons, which donations are
gratefully acknowledged.
While it seems like repetition to restate the service which the
Masons of this jurisdiction are rendering through the instrumentality
.of the . clubhouses at Berkeley and at Westwood, n.everthel.e ss some
notice must be given to the great good which is daily being done.
Picture in your minds a home at Westwood, Los Angeles, of 750
young men and women who take advantage of the opportunities
offered, and realize that an average of between 140 and 150 make use
of its accommodations daily, and you begin to realize the contribution
you are making to the welfare of these young people, and to the cause
of education generally. During the year, also, we were able to lay
the foundations of a committee which will function as an employment
bureau for the assistance of Masonically affiliated students and have
been successful in securing part time employment for several young
men and women. Bearing in mind, that it is estimated, that 60% of
the student body must have some part time employment, the importance of this work becomes manifest. We seek the cooperation, in this
regard, of the nearby Lodges and their members. The council · also
has under consider~tion the inauguration of monthly or bi-monthly
meetings to be addressed by various business and professional men,
upon the. subject of ·their vocations as a guide and aid . to. the students
in the selection of their occupations. The importance of this undertaki.ng is obvious.
We recommend that such provision be made for the support
during the year 1933-1934 as will be adequate for that purpo.se.
IRA F. THOMPSON, Chairman.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

645

REPORT OF U. C. BERKELEY CLUB HOUSE
To the M:. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
As Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of California,·
Inc., we submit herewith our report of the affairs of the institution
for the year ending September 30, 1931.
Nothing of more than passing interest has transpired at the clubhouse during the year. Notwithstanding that fact, the facilities offered
by the clubhouse to. the men and women of Masonic affiliation at the
University of California have been used and availed of by an increasing number of students. The usual line of social functions, which
mean so much in the life of young people away from home, have been
held under the direction of the Masonic Council, comprised of the
representatives of the ·various organizations using the clubhouse. The
very efficient manner in which Mrs. J. H. Quinn, hostess of the clubhouse, has supervised all that goes on there has had full and hearty
support by the young people themselves.
As an institution; the clubhouse continues to hold a position as
one of the most prominent organizations for good at the University.
It has .the whole-hearted support and approval of President and Mrs .
Sproul and of the various deans and others charged with welfare
work among students' at the University.
·
Amounts drawn from the reserve for depreciation and insurance
fund, in order to carry on the clubhouse during the year ending
September 30, 1930, have been replaced within the past year, which
will enable the Trustees to have the clubhouse properly painted and
minor items of upkeep cared for before the winter season. Other than
the loss of two small fires, both due to faulty installation of heating
apparatus when the building was constructed; there has been a minimum expenditure for betterments and upkeep during the seven years
of the life of the buildin~. The · faulty installation referred to has been
corrected, and the heating plant now has the full approval of the
Building Inspector and Fire Department officials of the city of Berkeley.
Amount
E~pended

Proposed Budget 1931-1932
Resident hostess ......................................$2,000.00
Superintendent ................................ :....... 1,600.00
Club service .............................................. 445.00
Bookkeeper .............................................. 240.00
Attendants ................................................ 600.00
Heat and light.......................................... 850.00
Telephone .................................................. 190.00

1930-1931

1930-1931

$2,000.00
1,600.00
.445.00
240.00
600.00
850.CO
175.00

$2,000.00
1,600.00
172.44
240.00
630.00
521.64
124.45

646

• GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount
Expended
Proposed Budget 1931-1932

Water -------------------------------------------------------- 125.00
Garbage ----------·-------------------:.......................
25.00
Office supplies.------------------------------------------ 120.00
Janitor supplies ---------------------------------------- 200.00
Repairs and ]jepl.:i..cqm~nts .......... ,..... ,..... 1,000.00
Newspapers and p~rio.;li~als..................
8G.OO
T;p~es ..,, ........•..., .......... ,... , ..., ....... ,.............. 2,,600.00
I11stt-ramie .................................................. 425.00
Dep.reciation ., ... ,,, .. ,..., .. ,.,, ......................... 1,800.00
To. r~pl;ice depre_ciation fupd .............. ..

1930-1931
125.00
25.00
120.00
200.00
500.00
80.00
2,600.00
425.00
525.00
1,300.GO

1930-1931
75.47
18.70
19.70
148.18
407.65
82.10
Z,591.86
311.18
838.69
1,300.00

$12,300.00

$11,810.00

$11,082.06

WILLIAM H. WASTE,
WILLIAM B. HERMS,

lJn <iranll lnllgr
Afternoon Session

Wednesday, October 14, 1931.
Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK

President.

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS, Secretary.

Treasurer.

ALBERT E. BOYNTON,
MILTON T. FARMER,
WILLIAM P. FILMER,
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN,
GEORGE F. RODDEN,

w ALDO F. POSTEL.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

At 11 :30 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30
o'clock this afternoon.

647

•

To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
To convey in a report of this character anything like an adequate
idea of the extraordinary success of the Twelfth Annual Observance
of Public Schools Week is practically impossible. To do this would
necessitate not only mention of scores of particularly notable observanc(;!s, but also specific references to the reports thereof.
The reports this year were not confined to those received from
lodges and from committees in charge of the observance. These
were supplemented by reports received from city and county superintendents of schools in response to a request made by our committee. We regret exceedingly that the limitations of this report
preclude any further reference to them than will be hereafter made.
Some of the communications received from the school people
were restricted to a detailed report of the observance with a statement of their own reactions and that of their teachers 11nd principals. Others included also an account in detail of the arrangements
made in the schools to assist the committee in charge of the Observance. Among the latter was one received from a city superintendent consisting of two volumes in scrapbook form of approximately
one hundred pages. Among other material included there were
copies of form letters sent out by the superintendent and also by
the Chamber of Commerce to industrial, manufacturing and commercial, concerns and to ministers of the Gospel and others from
whom cooperation was sought; also excerpts from the superintendent's bulletins to the staff of the schools giving detailed instructions
for receiving and entertaining visitors, and copies of programs presented at the different schools. And there was an extremely interesting summary of the reports made to the Superintendent at the
conclusion of the observance by principals and teachers giving their

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF<;>RNIA

personal reactions, with suggestions for the future. It is a very
valuable contribution and will be available to superintendents of
schools in other cities, and to committees .of arrangements, who may
desire to adopt similar plans for future observances.
A special effort was made this year to carryi our observance into
the small rural districts with the little one and two room schools;
and we deem it advisable in this report to stress this phase of our
work. We shall therefore make no special mention of any of the
scores. of particularly nota_b le observances which so well deserve it,
but instead content ourselves wjth a very brief resume of the result
in general throughout the state.
As we have heretofore pointed out, the space devoted by the
newspapers· to any occurrence is . generally in proportion to the interest displayed. Evidence of the increased publicity received this
year over even that last year reported is .found in the report made to
our committee by our Director of Publicity. In this connection it
should be ~oted that his report was based on the clippings received
by him evidencing the result of the state ' publicity campaign up to
and . including April 19; and that clippings attached to the reports
from lodges indicate that there was considerable more publicity
during the week commencing April 20 than had been theretofore
received. This was espcciatly notable with respect to illustrations
and editorials.
The clippings received by the Director of Publicity show a total
of 1605 se.parate editorials and news articles which was an increase
of about 33%% over last year. Furthermore, there was this year a
very noticeable increase in editorial column support by•the state
press. There were 192 editorials including 32 "news editorials" on the
rural school problem which was this year emphasized. In addition
there were 109 editorial articles supplied by the state headquarters
and 41· independently written. In this one factor is best told the
· general spread of interest of the state press in, and recognition of,
the· week and its im:reasing importance. The original news story
covering the proclamation of the Grand Master and the leading article with respect to rural education outlining the situation as set
forth by Dr. Sutton, President of the National Education Association, were handled by practically every paper to which they were
'sent; and the newspaper clippings attached to the reports show fre. quent reference to them in the focal articles appearing in what is
generally known as the "rural press."
As is pointed out by the Director of Publicity, the increase in
. the amount of newspaper publicity was due in great part to the local
publicity co~mittees.' There were this year represented, and contact by state headquarters made with, 92 publicity chairmen as con-

trasted with 42 last year and 7 the year before. In many instances
masters. very properly named a newspaper man of their lodge as
the c~a1rman o~ the publicity committee and they did splendid ·work.
In this connectJon'attention is called by the Director of Publicity to
the fact that while the press in general was most generous with their
space, i.t ':as in the smaller communities that the response was even
mor~ significant. Papers which ordinarily could not well afford any
considerable portion of their limited space devoted columns to the
w~ek, publishing in full the programs of their local schools with detailed accounts of the activities.

648

649

In addition t"o the proclamation by the Governor,. there were issued through the cooperation of the Executive Director of the
League ?f Calif?rni~ M~~icipalities proclamations by the Mayors
of 73 maJor and interior cities. The following proclamation is typical
of those issued:

"All citizens are -respectfully requested to assist in the
proper observance of the Twelfth Annual Celebration of
California _l;>ublic Schools Week which will be held throughout the state during the week beginning April 20, 1931.
"In view of the fact that our public school system has
been largely responsible for the position of leadership which
our country now occupies in all matters of human endeavor
it is . fitting and proper that we take this opportunity of
showing our appreciation of what our public schools have
?one fo~ us. In order that they may continue to be a great
influential factor in moulding the minds and hearts of future
citizens we bespeak hearty cooperation with those who have
· our schools in charge.
''.Let all our people join in the celebration of California
;i'ubhc Schools Week by visiting the schools, attending meetings and showing in every way their appreciation of the importance of public education.
·
..............;........................• Mayor of........................................''
There were included in the activities throughout the state generall.y ma_n y o~ the. features which in the past from time to time have
received mention in our reports because they were unique. ·And it
would appear that the local committees of arrangements very' generally adopted the suggestions contained in our "Handbook" and
?1-ade good use ·of the descriptions of selected observances therein
included. I.n addition to the meetings' held in school auditoriums
thron~ed with pare~ts an~ the public and addressed by noted speakers, with programs in which the pupils participated, there were this
year an unusual number -of parades and pageants with a vas tly increased num5er of window displays of school exhibits. In this con-

'650

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

nection, and notwithstanding our determination to avoid reference
to any specific observance, we ·cannot forbear making mention of a
window display showing art actual class in operation with the teacher
and pupils being changed throughout the day after short periods of
time. Needless to say it attracted unusual attention. As a matter
of fact, it created
traffic jam. And in another community where
there was held a· parade preceding a pageant, every store was closed
for three hours; and during that time, as stated in the report, "you
could not buy a penny's worth of anything." Practically everywhere
the schools held "open house" during the week to which parents and
the public generally were invited to witness either the actual work
of the classes, · or special programs presented for the occasion.
So much -for the observance in general. We now pass to a report
of the result of our effort to carry the observance into the little one
and two room schools.
In our report last year reference was made. to the fact that it is
in the remote, sparsely settled community with the little rural school
that the teacher and children need most the encouragement which
is one of the results of the observance of Public Schools Week; and
we referred to the opportunity afforded the fraternity to be of
assistance in the endeavor now being made to equalize the educational opportunities of the country and city child.
No program conceived by educators will be effective without
the sympathetic: aid, support and cooperation of the public. To secure this it is purposed by the National Education Association to
enlist the support of the rural press, and of fraternal and other civic
organizations. The Grand Lodge of Masons in California is peculiarly well adapted to the service to be here performed. Not only
is it state wide in its organization and representation, but it is probably the only institution of any sort represented in practically every
rural community. There may be a Masonic Lodge in a community in
which there is no club, society or other association of any sort or
kind, and where it would be the only organized unit for the dissemination of information; and in the observance of Public Schools
Week the medium is already provided. Furthermore, the membership represents all sorts and classes of people of diverse political,
social and economic views, but all of whom are the avowed and
loyal friends of our public schools.
In pursuance of our plan one entire chapter of our "Handbook"
was devoted to "rural education"; and a copy was sent every city,
county and district superintendent of schools. There was also a per•
sonally signed letter addressed to every county superintendent by
name outlining our purpose and asking his or her cooperation. In
addition to our "Handbook," every county superintendent and rural

supervisor also received a copy of a special "Bulletin" issued by the
State Department of Education. This was prepared by a committee
of rural supervisors under the direction of the Chief of the Division
of Rural Schools and was designed especially for the use of teachers
in the one and two room schools. It contained detailed suggestions
and instructions for holding an observance and was an extremely
valuable adjunct to our "Handbook" and prolific o'f great good.
In this connection, by the way, we are gratified to be able to
report that Public Schools Week has been included among the educational activities with which the State Department of Education
maintains professional contact; and that the member of the staff of
the Superintendent of Public Instruction assigned for that purpose is
the Chief of the Division of Elementary Education and Rural
Schools. Incidentally it may be here said that Public Schools Week
has also received . national recognition. The chairman of our committee received a very cordial invitation to accept a place on the
rural schools conference program of the National Education Association ;i.t their convention held in Los Angeles last July; and to
explain the work being done during Public Schools Week. President Sutton was especially desirous of having a report made to the
Convention of the result of the effort made this year to carry the
observance into the rural districts.

a

651

Although some of the reports from the lodges and county superintendents were not received until after the date of the convention
su_fficient information had been obtained to enable your chairma~
to report that our effort had been attended with even unexp.e cted,
indeed unhoped for, success; and that the promise for next year was
exceedingly bright.
We think it is not too much to say that the phenomenal success
of the observance this year is accounted for in great part by the extent to which the very small communities contributed. This was
primarily due to the fine cooperation received from county superint_e ndents, teachers and rural supervisors ; and from others who are
not unmindful of the importance of the little rural schools and who
are ever desirous of assisting in any movement for their improvement. We should like to make special mention of every one of the
observances in these little one room schools, but this is of course
impracticable. Such reference as is made to any of them is only to
indicate the extent of their participation in our observance this year.
There were several counties in which every one of these one and
two room schools either held an observance of its own or participated in one held in an adjoining district. An extremely interesting
report was received from the superintendent of a county in which
there are fifty-two rural elementary, and four rural high, schools. All

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

but one small school held some kind of an observance and that one
was closed by a threatened epidemic of diphtheria.
The programs in these little rural schools were almost as varied
as were those in the larger communities. Very generally they included class demonstrations with exhibits of school work; and in
some there were features not practicable in the urban communities,
such as the playing of simple -games in which the visitors participated. There was thus developed an extremely pleasant relationship
not only between the children and the visitors, but likewise among
the visitors themselves and to which reference will be hereinafter
made. As is now not uncommon in the larger schools, evening sessions were held for the convenience of the parents who were not able
to visit the school during the day. In one school described by the
superintendent as "a tiny one-teacher school in the western end of
the county" the teacher invited the patrons to an evening meeting at
which . a regular school session was held and at the conclusion of
which the visitors partook of refreshments she had provided.
In practically every instance the dominant feature of the observance were the visits by the patrons of the school; and some
extraordinary results were reported. There was one school with an
enrollment of twenty-five children which had a visit to the school
during the week by the father or mother from the home of every
pupil; and an emergency school in a lumber camp having an enrollment of twelve children received twenty visitors during the week.
As an illustration of the willing cooperation received from the
teachers of these little rural schools mention should be made of the.
situation presented in a report from a county superintendent who has
always been exceedingly helpful. It appears that she had arranged
with her teachers throughout the county to hold observances in their
own schools with exhibits of school work, and to urge every parent ·
to visit the school during the week. After all her arrangements had
been made the committee representing the Lodge located at the
county seat urged her to bring all the exhibits to the high school and
have a general exhibit there. This she consented to do; but she very
wisely decided to also have the individual observances as planned if
this could be arranged. The situation was placed before her teachers
who cheerfully agreed to advance the date of the observances in
their own schools and then made their contribution the following
week to the joint exhibit. The result was that through the cooperation of these teachers, in addition . to the joint program and exhibit
held at the high school, each of the twenty-six; districts of the county
held an observance of its own during the preceding week. In passing
we are availing ourselves of the opportunity to suggest that the primary purpose we .have in mind will be best subserved. by having

individual district observances in the communities in which the
schools are located.
For more reasons than one, mention is made of the splendid
cooperation received from the teachers of these one and two room
schools and of the results attained. In the first place it is only fitting
that there should be public recognition of it; secondly, it confirms
the opinion noted in several reports from school superintendents that
one of the benefits of Public Schools Week is thq.t it develops among
the teachers a spirit 0 f cooperation which inures to the benefit of. the
schools; and lastly, it should bring home to everyone the .fact that
there is no Lodge · so small, nor so remotely located, that 1t cannot
participate in an observance of Public Schools Week. The master of
any lodge willing to make the effort may confidently rely on t he
assistance of not only the county superintendent and rural supervisors but in no less d:~gree of the teachers of these little schools.
T~e participation in the observance held in the district school
was not everywhere confined to its patrons and the residents o~ the
district. In compliance with a suggestion made by our committee,
arrangements were .made in the larger centers of some of t~e counties
to include visits to th~ rural schools as a feature of their own observances. In one · county the visitors from the urban centers were
representatives of service clubs and of other civic b~dies . in t~e c?mmuriity who subsequen~ly reported to their respective orgamzations
giving their impressions and reactions. There was thus made a contact which should prove exceedingly valuable. And it was not only
through personal visits that a knowledge of the rural school situation
was brought home to ~he people of the cities. Many of the speakers
made rural education the subject of their addresses and forcefully
reminded their hearers of the fact that the education of every child
in the state is the con~ern of the commonwealth; and that the rural
school problem is one. in which the cities are no less interested than
are the rural districts'.
There is no edu~~tional problem more acute than is that presented by the rural schools. As is pointed out in our "Handbook'' it
is a problem not peculiar to California. It is national in its scope.
There are 170,000 little one room school houses in the United States;
over one-half of all the school children are enrolled. in rural schools
and.' are being taught by approximately one-half of the total number
of public school teachers. In school equipment, in buildings, in
length of sessions, in training of teachers, in supervision, in curriculum and in financial support t he' rural child is denied an even opportunity with the city child. The average city child gets as many school
days in six years as the country child in eight; while in certain sections of the United States a city child gets twice as many school

652

653

654

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

~ays. Even here in California the small rural school, it has been said,
is the predominant type of institution existing for the education of
our children. About seventy-one per cent of all the elementary
schools employ five or fewer teachers; and forty-three per cent employ only one teacher. And there are over seventeen hundred one
room schools. Some of them are as good as a one room school can
be made. There are others, however, which are a disgrace to a state
as educationally progressive as 'is ours.
Many and .varied are the remedies proposed. The adoption of
any however will depend on public opinion. The laity must be made
!o realize the educational handicap under which the rural child starts
m the. race of life, and aroused to the necessity of adopting the
remedial measures born of the knowledge and experience of the
school people. This will require of course a campaign of education·
a?d it must ~e designed to meet not only ignorance, but also preju~
dice and sentiment-and primarily apathy.
It was the apathy of the people it will be remembered that was
responsible for the crisis which confronted the public school system
at the close of the war, and which gave birth to the idea of Public
Schools Week. That apathy in California has been in great part dispelled; and we think it may be modestly claimed that it is due in part
at least to the annual observance of Public Schools Week. Until
now .~owever little work has been done in the very small rural communities; and there, as we have indicated, it is most needed. There
must be created a public sentiment which will not continue to countenance the unequal educational opportunities which now exist between the country and t~e city child; and no inconsiderable part of
th.e work 1:1ust be done m the communities which are still content
with the httle one room school. There are there prejudices to be
overcome, and a spirit of cooperation to be developed.
T?at there does not exist in these little rural districts the cooperation to be found in the progressive urban centers is not strange
There is little opportunity for that personal contact upon which i~
depends. There is no Chamber of Commerce, no service club no
local ne~spaper; and with the radio, mail order catalog, and' the
automobile !o tr~nsport the farmer or rancher with his family to the
n~arest mot10n picture house, there is no incentive to provide a· subsht~t~ for the cross-roads store which was once, for the heads of the
fam1hes at least, a social center where on Saturday night they
gathered around the stove to discuss their common problems.
In many of these little school districts the patrons are widely
separated and fo~ lack of opportunity seldom commingle. The observ~nce of Public Schools Weck will furnish an opportunity and
the httle schoolhouse may well be made the social center of the com-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO~NIA

655

munity. In our observance this year, where only a s tart has been
made, something more was accomplished than merely establishing
the desired contact between the school and its patrons. The teacher
who provided as a part of her program the playing of games in
which the adults participated has builded better than she knew. She
has revitalized a factor of rural life which disappeared with the
"quilting party" and the "candy pull." If she will not confine her
efforts to the fourth week in April of each year, but will afford frequent opportunities for the parents of her children to gather in the
schoolhouse and enjoy a social evening together she will have deserved well of her trustees even though she may not have that
coveted college degree.
We have repeatedly referred to the cooperation we received
from the teachers of these little one and two room schools. That
implies that they worked with us. We regret to say however that in
more than one instance they did all the work and that they did not
receive the cooperation of those of our brethren who might well
have given it. In our correspondence with county superintendents it
appeared that some of them had never received from the masters of
lodges in their counties the request for assistance we had written
them would be made. There were many instances in which the success of the movement to carry the observance into the little rural
school was due solely to the school people-the county superintendent, the rural supervisors and the teachers.
We are hoping that next year there will be nothing left undone
by any master of any lodge to make easier the task the teachers of
these one and two room schools so willingly assume and so successfully perform. Grand Lodge must confine its effort to the annual observance; but the masters of our little rural lodges, and their
brethren, might well continue their efforts throughout the year for
the attainment of the end we have in view. Every one of our brethren should be an unofficial aid and ally of his county superintendent
in every effort to improve the schools of his community.
In line with what has just been said, it is suggested that the
rural school problem might well be one of the subjects discussed as
a part of the lodge Masonic Education program. Speakers may
always be secured through the Division of Rural Schools of the State
Department of Education. Contrary to general belief it is. not a "dry"
subject, but an extremely interesting one, and especially for Masons
it has that appeal which attaches to every question that concerns
human values.
Successful as was our effort in securing the participation in our
Twelfth Annual Observance of the little one and two room schools,
even more is promised for next year. Many of the county superin-

PROCE~DINGS OF THE

656

tendents are already making their plans; and it might be well for
't hose of our· brethren who will serve their lodges as masters next
year to make immediate contact with them. One of our most successful observances this year was reported by a master who had
started his arrangements immediately after his return from last year's
.communication of Grand Lodge.
Each year we have been gratified to be able to report a success
exceeding that of the preceding year. Never before however has any
report been made with the pleasure and satisfaction with which this
is presented; because the result of the effort made this year gives
promise of the ultimate success of what is :a dmittedly a prodigious
task. Indeed it may be now confessed that it was undertaken with
some trepidation; and only because of the confidence born of a
knowledge of the loyalty and zeal of our brethren in the cause of
public education, and of the sterling worth of those splendid men
and women constituting the school people of the state who are devoting their lives to the service of our children.
In an extraordinarily interesting ad.d ress delivered during the
convocation of the Grand. Chapter of Royal Arch Masons last April
the speaker who has done outstanding work in the cause of rural education referred to herself as a "crusader." That is the spirit which
should animate each one of us. We are enlisted in a crusade in the
cause of childhood; and the motto emblazoned on our banners is,
"Equal Educational Opportunities for All the Children of All the
People."
All of which is fraternally submitted.
ROBERT A. ODELL,
JOHN B. BEMAN,
MELVIN BOWMAN,
L. E. CHENOWETH,
A. R. CLIFTON'
DR. WALTER v. GOODFELLOW,
F. A. HENDERSON,
WALTER R. HEPNER,
J. L. HousE,
FREDERICK F. MARTIN,
]AMES T. MONTANO,
CHARLES E. TEACH,

Report approved.

CHAS; ALBERT ADAMS,
WALTER L. BACHRODT,
ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,
RoY,W. CLOUD,
WILL CROCKET,
ELIAS .E . ELLISON, .
w. E. GIVENS,
JOSEPH 1.1:. GWINN,
0. s. HUBBA!Ul,
GEORGE c. JENSEN,
WESLEY w. KER.GAN,
VAUG-HAN MAcCAUGHEY.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

657

REPORT OF EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE
To the M:. W.:. Gran.d Lodge of California:
This represents the seventh annual report which your Educational
Committee has had the privilege of presenting to this Grand Lodge.
Some few years back we took occasion to remark that an educational program is not one for a year, or even a few years, but that it is
(like all education itself) a continuous process which will reach a
high point and then in the natural order of progress start toward
still further accomplishment. From the various reports received, it is
the opinion of your committee that the first of the high points in the
course of progress has been attained. This opinion arises from the
fact that there are many, many Lodges who pursue the educational
program as part of their work, as a matter of course, and while the
work itself is not in the category of ritualistic work (being not
required), it, nevertheless, has a similar importance and meaning to
these many Lodges. These Lodges instruct their candidates regularly
in accordance with the pamphlet of information afforded by your
Educational Committee and there are numerous reports which have
been received which testify to the success of this department of in.f ormation afforded the candidates, in addition to that which they receive
through the ritualistic ceremony and lectures. There are now in the
line of officers in many Lodges brethren who, themselves, received
the benefits of the educational program instruction and they report
as to the great value of the additional knowledge which they obtained
through this type of instructi'on. Your committee feels, therefore, that
the pursuit of the program with respect to instruction of candidates
as they receive their degrees is of the highest value, and should under
all circumstances be followed up so that as time goes on all members
of all Lodges will have had the benefit of the type of instruction and
enlightenment afforded by the instruction pamphlet above referred to.
In the matter of publications for general Lodge use your committee is most happy to report that they have been received in general
with enthusiasm and have been likewise generally made use of. Seven
such bulletins were issued this past year, and they were as follows :
In February, "The Intelligent Mason"; in March, "Masonry and Employment," a paper which all agreed was timely and proper; in April,
"The Apron and Working Tools"; in May, "Masonry at Practice"; in
June, July and September, "Questions and Answers." It may be
remarked that the papers containing the questions and answers were
used to very great advantage by an extremely large number of Lodges.
There was also sent to the Lodges, as a matter of information, a
paper on "Free Masonry in Germany," being a reprint of a very
interesting paper appearing in one of our magazines. There was also

659

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sent last year's report of this committee, because of certain conclusions
therein contained which we thought to be of value for the Masters.
The interesting statistics of this year's activities show that there
were 16,500 pieces of literature mailed; that our mailing list contains
1,074 names in the State of California; that there' are 450 Educational
Committees in as many of the respective Lodges; that 3,000 copies of
the pamphlet of instruction to candidates on the three degrees were
mailed; that the Secretary received approximately 1,800 letters of all
kinds from Lodges and members, most of which concerned questions
seeking further information on some of the topics or questions presented; that the Secretary's office mailed approximately 3,200 letters
during the year; that the Executive Secretary has made 78 addresses
on the work, and that other members of the committee have made
approximately as many. This list of activities on the part of the committee thus indicates a year's work, full and complete, and shows the
amount of interest being taken by the Lodges, officers and members.
A very large number of the district officers' meetings have devoted
some time to a consideration of the educational program, and there
have been many meetings in various parts of the State attended by
members of the Educational Committee which have included many
adjoining districts.
The committee at the present time consists of twenty-three members, of whom five are in Los Angeles, four in San Francisco, one in
Fresno, one in Chico, one in Santa Rosa, one in Sacramento, one in
Bakersfield, two in Pasadena, one in Sarr Diego, one in Redding, one
in Santa Barbara, one in Stockton, one in Riverside, one in San Jose
and one in Oakland; each member has a combination of districts
which includes' almost all of the districts in the State. Each committe~
member keeps in touch with the officers of the Lodges in his district
and affords every assistance possible.
From the general appropriation of $5,000.00, the Executive Secretary this last year received $1,625.00, and the balance was utilized in
the maintenance of the committee's office in Los Angeles, and the
expense of publishing the various publications, mailing, and also the
relatively small expense of various members of the committee in
traveling and keeping in touch with the Lodges. It will thus be seen
that the committee has utilized its appropriation in a careful manner
and with the best possible results.
The experience of your committee over this seven year period
once again demonstrates the wisdom of Grand Lodge in originally
adopting an educational program, and our experience dictates the conviction that its unswerving continuance will be for the best welfare
of our institution and its membership.

We reiterate that it is not such a program as can be judged by the
apparent results of any one year, but that its cumulative effect will
go a long way toward advancing the lines of thoug ht of our members
in accordance with the increased information which becomes their
knowledge as the years .g o on.
Your committee, therefore, respectfully recommends:
1. That the program laid down by this Grand L odge in 1925 be
continued ;
2. T hat the Grand Master be authorized to a ppoint a committee
of such number as he may deem advisable for the carrying on of the

658

program;
3. That the sum of $5,GOO.OO be appropriated for the use of the
committee under the direction of the Grand Master for the ensuing
year.
EDUCATIONAL C OMMITTEE OF 1931.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and thence to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-laws has had under co nsideration amendments of various Lodges to by-laws, changing place and time of
meeting a nd excepting holidays ; increasing and decreasing dues ; fixing
fees for degrees and affiliation, and resolutions fixing fees for life
memberships; petitions for dispensations to hold elections for offi cers;
to receive petitions for membership without r eference to committee,
and dispensations to act on petition of rejected candidates within
twelve months from rejection.
Your committee is satisfied that all Constitutional requirements
have been complied with in these various ma tters, but the records in
many cases are very defective, and your committee believes that if the
Secretaries of all subordinate L odges were admonished to conform to
the provisions of section 250 of the ,Constitution in certifying the
proceedings of their Lodges, much confusion and labor would be
saved.
Your committee recommends approval of the action of the Grand
Master in approving or rejecting the foregoing 'matters, together with
all conditions imposed by him thereon.
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,
V ICTOR MCLU CAS,
FRANKLIN P ADAN,

Committee.

Report adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

660

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN JA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the M.'. W: ."Grand Lodge of California:
This is the report of your Committee on Charters. The report is
purely formal, for no work came before your committee. There are
no Lodges under dispensation awaiting charters-the first time that
this has occurred in the history of our Grand Lodge.
RALPH CHASE, Chairman.

Adopted.

BOARD OF CONTROL
To the M:. W.' . Grand Lodge of Calif ornia:
In accordance with the provisions of Article VIII-a, Part 1, of
the Constitution of Grand Lodge, your Board of Control created thereunder, herewith presents its reports of its activities for the year ending
July 31, 1931.
This Article provides that the Board of Control shall have control
and shall supervise the activities of Boards of Relief and the Employment Service now existing under the authority of Grand Lodge; that
it shall so standardize the work that the operations of the several
Boards of Relief may be conducted economically and efficiently; that
it shall pass upon applications for the formation of Boards of Relief;
and that it shall pass upon and make recommendations on all requests
for reimbursement of funds expended for relief and employment.
Your Board respectfully reports that the work of the Boar.ds of
Relief of California is more systematized and business-like than ever
before in the hist ory of relief work in this jurisdiction; that there is
today more efficiency in operation, with less overhead expense; that
there is not only a uniformity of operation but a better understanding
between the Lodges and the Boards of Relief, and also between the
respective Boards of Relief and Grand L odge and finally that notwithstanding the great increase in membership, notwithstanding the
great influx of dependent and afflicted foreign Masons into this jurisdiction and notwithstanding t·he ·business and employment situation
of the past two or three years, relief work in ·California is cos ting the
Grand Lodge less money than ever before.
The Board of Control was organized principally for the purpose
of bringing about uniformity and coordination in relief work, as well
as economical and efficient administration of Boards of Relief without
overlapping and duplication of effort. That it has succeeded in this
respect is demonstrated by a review of the requests for reimbursement granted by Grand Lodge in the past seven years. These reim-

661

bursements include the moneys paid back by Grand L odge to the
respective Lodges and Boards of Relief for relief and assista nce
extended to needy and distressed Masons, and to th e widows a nd
families of deceased Masons of other jurisdictions. T he figures a r e ' as
follows:
1925 reimbursements granted $15,166.71
1926
"
10,464.26
1927
11,035.05
T hese a re the three years before t he Board of Control began to
function.

1928 reimbursements granted $ 8,544.17
1929
..
"
7,570.82
1930
6,881.67
~31

~~&~

This great reduction has been secured only by the continuous and
insistent demands upon and the fi nal consent of the foreign jurisdie~
tional L odges to reimburse Boards of Relief and L odges for relief
extended to brethren of said jurisdictions.
The grea t problem of the Board of Relief is to secure these reimbursements from the foreig n jurisdictions. Several jurisdiction s have
notified California L odges that they will not make reimbursements for
relief extended where pre-authorization is not sought and/or not
granted. Many foreign jurisdiction Lodges refuse or neglect to reimburse aft er authorization is g iven. N o English L odge nor Scottish
Lodge, few exceptions, will pa y the bills for th e funeral of one of its
deceased brothers. Your Board of Contr ol has sounded t he warning
to the Relief Boards of California and to the respective Lodges not
to ex tend relief in any considerable amount without first notifying the
foreign Lodge and securing the approval and authorization of said
Lodge.
In March ·'of this year by and w ith the consent and a pproval of
the Most Worshipful Grand Master, the Board of Control sent the
following communication to all L odges and Relief B oards in California:
To the Masters and S ecretaries of all L odges:
To all Boards of R elief :
Perhaps never before in the history of Masonry in California have
there been so many demands upon ·our fraternity for relief and assistance by needy brethren fr om other jurisdictions.
<?u.r ~alifo rnia Grand L odge has Ion~ ago established the policy
that 1t 1s incumbent .upon us to render rehef in all worthr cases, and
Grand L odg e has reimbursed L odges and Boards of Relief for relief
extended wher e fo reign jurisdictions have refused to relieve their own
brethren and t he L odg es and Boards of R elief have applied for reimbursement.

662

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

But so great have been the calls for relief and so many requests
for reimbursement are being presented that the Board of Control
believes that it is timely and most important to warn all Lodge and
Board of Relief officers : first-to grant only nominal relief and no
extended nor large amount of relief to any applicant without first
notifying the brother's Lodge and receiving instructions and authorization before said relief is granted; second-to grant no relief to
applicants for the purpose of assisting in meeting payments on real
or personal property; third-to make no loans of Lodge or Board of
Relief funds to any brother; fifth-when an application for relief is
presented, officers should immediately notify, by telegraph, the
brother's Lodge and take no action until authorization is received.
The Board of Control will not approve and in all probability
Grand Lodge will not grant applications for reimbursement where
prior authorization to extend relief has not been asked from nor
granted by the foreign jurisdiction Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
MASONIC BOARD OF CONTROL.
DAVID J. REESE, Chairman.
EUGENE ELKUS,
FRANK M. WISE,
]AMES R. ERSKINE,
ROBERT CALLENDAR, Secretary.
Approved:
]oHN STEWART Ross,
Grand Master.
Meetings: Four meetings of the Board of Control have been held
during the year, one at Ventura in March; one at Los Angeles in
May; a third at San Francisco in August, and the fourth at San Francisco during the session of the Grand Lodge. This fourth session has
been devoted mainly to the conduct of hearings in the matter of
reimbursements and has resulted in reduction of the demands upon
Grand Lodge amounting to $3,285.22. At the other meetings, upon
invitation of the Board, delegates of the various Boards of Relief
have attended and conferences have been held which have resulted in
better understanding, as to methods and procedure.
Your Board of Control is pleased to report that Boards of Relief
are more than ever working in entire accord and harmony with the
Board of Control suggestions. Lodges because of constant changes
and lack of familiarity sometimes digress from the established procedure but in general there is efficiency and consequent economy.
During the Masonic year we have had the entire support of our
Most Worshipful Grand Master, who has been most helpful in his
cooperation and endorsement of the work we have had in hand. Our
Worshipful Grand Secretary has given us his assistance and encouragement. For all this we desire to express our appreciation.

663

Statistics
The statistic~! information given in this report which has come
fron:1 the sec.retanes of the respective Boards of Relief and the infor?1ahon ?btame~ f~o~ the audits of the public accountants afford
information which 1t 1s believed will be found useful 1·
·
d ·
·
n various ways
an . mterest~ng to the Boards of Relief as well as an invaluable fund
of mf?rn:iation ~or. consideration by the Board of Control. One of
the prmc1pal obJect1ves of the Board of Control is to perf t
as possibl
'f
· ·
ec as near
. . e a um orm1ty m operation of all Boards of Relief and it is
ghrat1~y1ng to find each year bringing about a nearer approach to
t at ideal.
Report of Boards
. Eac~ Board of Relief continues the practice of having an annual
a~~~t ~f its accounts made by its own auditor, a certified accountant
w1 t e approval of the Board of Control.
'
The reports of these audits made on the Board of Control forms
havde been promptly filed by the Boards of Relief and are uniform
an tomplete.

T~e following review of the operations of the respective Boards
_of Relief covers the twelve months ending July 31, 1931. It is based
upon ~he reports of the officers who have been serving and u on the
financial reports of the certified accountants.
P
of th~l~~eda~ [his Board of .Relief is composed of members of each
d .
hue o ges. No salaries are paid. The per capita assessment
urmg t e year averages about ten cents.
During the last year the board conducted three funerals There
were no funeral charges.
·
Balance on hand last report ............. ...................................................$ 51.60

Receipts During the Year
Other California Lodges ....................................$ SO 00
Other U. S. Lodges.............................................. 72:so

==. .

From per capita contributions ............................................
Total balance and receipts ..........................................
For Relief:

Disbursements

$122.50
92.44

214.94

$Z66.S4

~alif?rnia Lodges ..........................................$l 20.00
ore1gn Lodges.............................................. 72 .50

:=-=. . . . . . . . .,. .

Total disbursements .....................................

$l 92•

50

Balance July 31, 1931 ............................................................................$ 74 .

04

664

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Bakersfield: The Board of Relief of Bakersfield is managed by
Chairman and Secretary and Masters and Wardens Association. It
meet~ once each month. It collected a per capita assessment of thirtyfive cents and paid its secretary the sum of $25.00 per month.
The treasurer and secretary a!'e bonded in the sum of $500.00 each.
One automobile is used in connection with the work. During the
year the Board conducted six funerals. The charges for each was,
$100.00 to the undertaker, $12.00 for opening and closing grave, plot
and marker $45.00, making a total of $157.00 each.
Balance on hand last report ......................................:.........................$174.56

From Grand Lodge of California ........ _..........$ 27.00
Other California Lodges .......................,............ 145.00
Other United States Lodges .................:····........ 343.10 $515.10

During the year eleven funera,ls were conducted by the Lodges.
Total cost of funeral was not given.
Balance on hand last report ..............................................................$ 347.37
Receipts During the Year

Per capita contribution..................$980.00
Subscriptions .................................. 900.00
718.10

Total balance and receipts ............................................................$892.66
Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ................;............... :........:$160.00
Other U . S. Lodges ...............:........•..'........... 287.64
Foreign Lodges.............................................. 15.00
Repayment to Grand Lodge, Calif........... 10.00 $472.64
For salaries .............................•.......,......................$300.00
Telephone and telegraph.....................................• · 5.07
Printing, stationery and postage ....:.........._.... 3.00
Office equipment purchased.............................. 7.00

The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500.00 each
and t?e bonds ar_e carried by the Grand Lodge. Compensation insurance ts also earned, The amount of fidelity insurance and carrier is
$1,000.00, carried by Grand Lodge.

Grand Lodge of California ..........................$ 57.00
Other California Lodges................................ 60.74
Other U. S. Lodges ...............•........................ 992 00
Individuals........................................................ 27:00 $1,136.74

Receipts D1lring the Year

Subscriptions other Lodges..........................................,..... 203.00

665

315.07

1,880.00

3,016.74

Total balance and receipts .................................,......................$3,364.11
For relief:

Disbursements

California Lodges ..................................$ 95.24
Other U. S. Lodges.............................. 842.50
Foreign Lodges ....................................
10.00
Funerals ··-··---·-----···----.-----.--- ...------ ............... 100.00
$1,047.74
For salaries ...............,..,.,....,............................$1,800.00
Telephone and telegraph........_. ......:......·......
.95
Printing, stationery and postage..... _:......
4.80
Miscellaneous ...................:.....~~···················
23.90

1,829.65

Total disbursements .............,..............,.........................................$787.71

Total disbursements ..................................:·································$2,877.39

Balance July 31, 1931 .............................................................................$104.95

Balance July 31, 1931....:······-~ ....._. .......................................................$ 486.72

Fresno: The Fresno Board of Relief is composed of three members from each of the four Blue Lodges and meets once each month.
The report states that the per capita assessment was $980.00 during
the year-two assessments at 25c each.
There is but one ptiid employe, the secretary, who receives $150.00
per month.

Honolulu! ~his Board is composed of members of each Lodge.
There are no paid employes; The treasurer's bond is in the sum of
$500.00.
.
.
.•
There were six funerals handled under the direction of the Board.
There were no funeral charges. One monthly meeting
Balance on hand last report... ................................................:..........$1,544.21

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

666

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

For relief:

Receipts During the Year
From other California Lodges........................$271.16
Other United States Lodges.......................... 46.13 $317.29
Interest ..................................................................................... 127.50

444.79

Total balance and receipts ........................................................$1,989.00
DisbursetlU!nts
For relief:
California Lodges ......................................$258.16
Other United States Lodges ...............,.... 26.28
Foreign Lodges .,........................................ 5.00 $289.44

667

Disbursements

California Lodges ................................$ 218.50
Other U. S. Lodges .............................. 1,024.90
Foreign Lodges....................................
5.00
Funerals ................................................ 466.50
Contributed to Employment Bureau 437.50 $2,152.40
For salaries....................................................$2,7Q0.00
Rent .............................................................:.. 180.00
60.00
Automobile allowance and expense........
Printing, stationery and postage..............
45.38
Telephone and telegraph............................
47.34
Audit ......•.......................................................
25.00
Miscellaneous ..............................................
49.35 $3,107.07
Total disbursements ....................................................................$5,259.47

Telephone and telegraph..................................$ 6.49
Miscellaneous .................................................... 38.50

44.99

Balance July 31, 1931..........................................................................$ 983.59

Total disbursements ....................................................................$ 334.43
Balance July 31, 1931..........................................................................$1,654.57
Long Beach: The Board of Relief at Long Beach is composed of
Masters and Wardens of each Lodge, and holds one meeting each
month. The per capita assessment during the year is seven cents per
month. The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the sum <;>f $500.00
each.
One automobile is used. Compensation insurance is carried. The
amount of fidelity insurance and carrier is ten and twenty thousand
dollars. During the year forty funerals were conducted by the Board.
There were no funeral charges given.
Balance on hand last report..............................................................$ 837.19
Receipts During the Year
From other California Lodges..................$ 250.00
Other U. S. Lodges...................................... 871.90
Funerals ........................................................ 481.00 $1,602.90
From per capita contributions ..................$3,777.37
Interest ..........................................................
25.60

3,802.97
5,405.87

Total balance and receipts ........................................................$6,243..06

Los Angeles: The Los Angeles Board of Relief is composed of
members from each Blue Lodge and holds one meeting each month.
A per capita assessment of sixty cents was levied during the year.
There are three full time and two part time employes: a secretary
at a salary of $225.00 per month, a typis t or clerk at a salary of $100.00
per month, a field man at a salary of $175.00 per month.
During the period covered by the report, the Board conducted 220
funerals. The cost of opening and closing graves amounts to $6.00.
The total funeral cost amounts to $102.00 for interment and $110.00
for cremation.
The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000 each.
Compensation insurance is also carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand last report ............................................................$ 7,210.27
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of ·California........................................$ 1,550.28
Other California Lodges............................................ 5,481.08
Other U. S. Lodges.................................................... 28,612.02
Foreign Lodges............................................................ 1,713.57
Interest ..........................................................................
103.05

37,460.00

Subscriptions (other Lodges and bodies) ............$17,679.28
Interest ..........................................................................
27.91
Miscellaneous .............................................................. 1,049.24

18,756.43

Total balance and receipts ......................................................$63,426.70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ................................................$ 5,273.94
Other U. S. Lodges ............................................ 29,076.38
Foreign Lodges.................................................... 1,620.57
Repayment to Grand Lodge, Cal.....................
90.00
Funerals, conducting ,......................................... 3,951.59
800.00 $40,812.48
Contributed to Employment Bureau...........-..

Receipts D1tring the Y car

668

Total balance and receipts ....·........................:.................................$63,426.70
Relief disbursements ....................•·······'························-----····--· 40,812.48

~~: ts~'.~~~~~---·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·_·_-_-_-_-_·_·_·_·_·_-_-_-_-_-_·_~·-·.·.·.·.·.·_·.·.~::::::~:::~:::::::::::::·.:$1O·~~~:~~
Automobile allowance and expense........................
Telepkone and telegraph.............................................
Printing, stationery and postage.,.............................
Field representative expense....................................
Miscellaneous ..............................................................
Office equipment purchased......................................
Audit ··············································································
MiscellaneousU nclassified ..........................................$156.98
Drugs .................................................•.... 96.71

From Grand Lodge of California ............................$ 2,526.11
Other California Lodges............................................ 2,811.36
Other U. S. Lodges .................,.................................. 7,641.13
287.90
Foreign Lodges............................................................
Funeral rei,mbursements ............................................ 1,408.50
Payments from individuals........................................ 1,531.71

16,206.71

Local Lodges per capita.........................:....................$ 9,086.86
Interest ·'--··--····--··----·· .. ···--·--····------········--·--..··--··--·········
174.26
Miscellaneous ..............................................................
18.47

9,279.59

Total balan.ce and receipts ......................................................$30,476.13
Balance on hand last report ............................................................$ 4,989.83 ·

768.64
891.68
908.33
103.65
333.86
102.75
87.50

253.69

669

Total balance and receipts ......................................................$30,476.13

14,516.10

Total disbursements ..................................................................$55,328.58
Balance July 31, 1931........................................................................$ 8,098.12
Oakland and Berkeley: The Board of Relief located in Oakland
known as the East Bay Masonic Board of Relief, is composed of
members from t~e Blue Lodges located in Oakland and Berkeley, and
holds one meetmg each month. During the past year a per capita
assessment in the sum of four cents has been levied.
There are two paid employes, both engaged in the relief and
employment service. The secretary receives nothing, the assistant
secretary receives $175.00 per month and a typist or clerk receives
$50.00 per month. These amounts cover the work done for both
departments.
The secretary is bonded in the sum of $2,000. There is one automobile used. During the term covered by the report the Board conducted sixty-four funerals : undertaker's charge $100.00, cost of
opening and closing grave $40.00, total cost of funeral $140.00, cremation $135.00.
Balance on hand last report... .........................................................$ 4,989.83

For relief:
California Lodges ...................... :.........................$ 3,781.24
Other U. S. Lodges............................................ 10,940.60
Foreign Lodges....................................................
433.21
Funerals ................................................................ 2,617.50 $17,772. 55
For salaries ..................................................................$ 6,350.00
Rent ................................................................................
600.00
Automobile allowance and expense........................
421.39
Telephone and telegraph...................................-.......
388.99
337.68
Printing, stationery and postage..............................
Miscellaneous ..............................................................
358.11
Typewriter .:..................................................................
74.58

8,530.75

Total disbursements .....:............................................................$26,303.30
Balance July 31, 1931...........................,............................................$ 4,172.83
Pasadena: The Pasadena Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge and is managed by a president and secretary.
Meetings are called by president.
The secretary is the only paid e~ploye; he receives $75.00 per
month. His bond is in the sum of five hundred dollar's. One automobile is used.

670

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The B~ard. cond~cted twenty-nine funerals, the cost being about
$125.00, which is mainly of the following items: Undertaker $75 00·
cost of grave $20.00 including box, and cost of funeral servi~e $5° oo'
Balance on hand last report... ......................................................... $I,26 5

i. i

Receipts -During the Year

~r~~ G_rand Lodge of California ................................$ 820.00

25.00
F
.
Lod dges ........................................................ 1,119.75
oreign
ges................................................................
30.45 $1,995.20

ir:m per capita conti;ibutions ...................................... $1,132.45
n erest ··············································································
31.95

1,164.40

Total balance and receipts ........................., ........ ,.....................$4,422. ! 2
Dis/mrsements

California Lodges .................................... $820.00
Other U. S. Lodges ................................ 740.00
Funerals
···················································· 125.00 $1,685.00
Fo_r salaries ...................................................... $900 00
Pr_mting, stationery and postage................
5: 50
M 1scellaneous
Audit ................ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 10:~~

Disbursements

U. S. Lodges, exclusive of California ................................$114.00
Automobile allowance and expense..................................
3.00
Miscellaneous ........................................................................
2.00

Balance July 31 , 1931............................................................................$ 56.02
Sacramento: The Board of Relief at Sacramento is composed of
members from Sacramento and North Sacramento, and holds one
meeting each month. During the year a per capita assessment of
three cents per member was collected. They have one paid employe,
a secretary who receives $45.00 per month. The secretary and treasurer are bonded and bonds are carried by Grand Lodge.
The report shows that eighteen funerals were conducted by the
Board. The undertaker's charge was $75.00, the cost of opening and
closing the grave, $15.00, cost of funeral service $8:00. The total cost
of funeral varies from $98.00 to $150.00.
Balance on hand last report... ................................•........................$3,323.67
Receipts During the Year

==. . . .... . .
915.65

Total disbursements................................

$2,600. 65

Balance July 31, 193L........................................................................$l,B2 1.
M

671

Total disbursements ........................................................................ 119.00

o~~e~r~~ s~o~es ............................:...............................

For relief:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

47

Richmond: The Board of Relief at Richmond is composed of the

a~ters of each Lodge and meets at the call of chairman. The per

capita assessment was five cents during the last year.

N~ salaries are paid. Number of funerals conducted by Board
were nme. No cost of funeral was given.
Balance on hand last report
................................................................$ 58.47

Grand Lodge of California ..............................................$200.50
Other California Lodges..................................................... 55.00
Other U. S. Lodges ............................................................. 411.50
Foreign Lodges..................................................................... 5.00
Funerals .............................................................................. 16.00

688.00

From per capita contributions ........................................$928.74
Interest received .......................... ·-······································ 107.82

1,036.56

Total receipts and balance ........................................................$5,048.23
Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ....................................$279.06
Other U. S. Lodges ................................ 913.50
Foreign Lodges ........................................ 217.50
Funerals .................................................... 243.00 $1,653.06

Receipts During the Year

~-bS. ~ot~ges (exhclusive of California) ........... _.................................
u scrip 10ns ot er Lodges...............................

···································

64 00
·
52.55

Total balance and receipts ............................................................-$175.02

For salaries ......................................................$540.00
Telephone and telegraph.............................. 67.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................35.00

642.00

Total disbursements ....................................................................$2,295.06
Balance July 31, 1931 ..........................................................................$2,753.17

672

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Diego: The San Diego Board of Relief is composed of members of each of the Lodges, managed by a bo.ard of directors. During
the past year the per capita assessment amounted to seventy-five
cents. Meetings are held once a month.
The secretary is the only paid employe and his salary is $200.00
per month. The treasurer and secretary are bonded in the sum of
$1,000 each, carried by the Grand Lodge. One automobile is used.
. During the time included in. this report there were fifty-nine
funerals conducted by the Board. The cost of opening and closing
the grave was $12.50. The cost of funerals vary.
Balance on hand last report............................................................$ 819.20

Receipts D1'ring the Year
Other California Lodges..................:.................:.........$2,568.47
Other U. S. Lodges ...................................................... 5,997.80
Foreign Lodges................................... ~.......................... 154.75
Individuals ......................................................................
23.00
From per capita contributions ....................................$2,480.75
Miscellaneous ................................................................
89.46

San Francisco : The San Francisco Board of Relief is c~mposed
of members from each of the fifty-four Lodges, and two meetings are
held each month. A per capita assessment of twenty-five cents was
levied during the year.
The paid employes are the secretary, who receiv~d $300.00 salary
and $50.00 automobile allowance monthly, and a typist or clerk who
received $75.00 monthly.
During the period covered by the report the Lodges conducte d
1
ninety-seven funerals at an average cost of $100.00: undertakers
charge $75.00, cost of grave $16.00.
The automobile used by the secretary is his property. The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000.00 each. Compensation insurance is also carried.
Balance on hand last report... ...................•·······················:···:·········$ 9,285.71

Receipts D"ring the Year
8,744.02
2,C:70.21

Total balance and receipts ......................................................$12,133.43
For relief :

Di.sb1'rsements

Grand Lodge of California.......,................................$ 2,686.74
Other California Lodges.......•·······-··-:······················ 6,904.74
Other U. S. Lodges.................................................... 9,5~~· ~~
Foreign Lodges.............................................................
5 ·

19,728.29

Subscriptions from other Lodges ...........~ ................$ 5,546.00
Interest ..........................................................................
888.19
Miscellaneous, bond bal., T. & T ................... ,.........
308.39

6,742.58

California Lodges (other) ..................................$2,394.35
Other U. S. Lodges..............................................•. 6,024.47
Foreign Lodges ...................................................... 140.90
Individuals ..............................................................
88.95 $ 8,648.67
For salaries ··············································-·········.-·········-$2,400.00
Automobile allowance and expense..........................
30.00
Telephone and telegraph..............................................
18.46
Printing, stationery and postage..............................
22.76
Traveling expense...........................................................
75.00
Audit ................................................................................
15.00
Miscellaneous ................................................................
20.00

Total balance and receipts...........,..........................................$35,756.58

Disb1,rsements
For

~:~;~~~nia Lodges ...............................................:$ 7•118·71
Other U. S. Lodges..................,,........................ 11,013.71
Foreign Lodges.................................................... 1,286.65
Repayment to Grand Lodge, Cal.....................
188.15
Contributed to Employment Bureau.............. 1,200.00
Misc:ellaneous-Interest 'and bonds................
147.05 $20,954.27

2,581.22

Total dis burs emen ts ....•.............................................................$11,229.89
Balance.July 31, l931........................................................................$

673

903.54

Balance on hand last report .............................................................$ 9,285.71
Total balance and receipts ......................................................$35,756.58
Relief disbursements .......................................:........................$20,954.27
For salaries................................................... _...............$ 5,400.00
360.00
Rent···························································:····················
Automobile allowance and expense ........................
600.00
Telephone and telegraph...........,..............................
450.78
Printing, stationery and postage..............................
130.68

I

675

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

674

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Audit ..............................................................................
Office supplies ............................................................ ..
Miscellaneous expense ............................................... .

Miscellaneous

35.00
11.80
96.48

7,084.74
1,100.00

$ S,984.74
Total disbursements ..................................................................$26,939.01
Balance July 31, 1931..............:.........................................................$ 8,817.S7
San Jo.se: The San Jose Board of Relief is composed of members
from each of the five Lodges. A per capita assessment of twenty-four
cents was levied during the year. Meetings were held quarterly ..
The secretary was the only paid employe, who received a salary
of $50.00 per month. The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the
am-0unt of $SOO.OO each, furnished by the Grand Lodge.
During the year the Board conducted five funerals. The cost of
funeral was $13S.OO: the undertaker's charge $90.00 minimum, the cost
of grave $45.00.
Balance on hand last report ..............................................................$1,050.04

..................$1,073.81
Balance July 31, 19~1.. .................. M··--·:·----·B·~~;d· -~£ 'Relief is composed
Santa Monka: The Santa h o~1'; es and meets once a month.
of three members of each ?f t e o ~n; was levied in the sum of
. g the year a per capita assessm
D urm
· d employes
twenty-five cents. There were no pa1 bonded i~ the sum of $S00.00
The secretary and tre~surer. werfe
I were conducted by the
th year th1rty-nme unera s
h
.
D
urmg
e
I
$12S OO · the undertaker's c arge
each.
B rd The total cost of funera was
. :
$62 SO
oa $6. 2 SO ~nd the cost of opening and closing grave
. .
was
· ,.
·
$1 000 00
Amount of fidelity insurance and carrier,
' .... .'.....: ........$ 2S7.00
Balance on hand last report.. .........................................

..

Re~eipts During the year

From Grand Lodge ........................................$ 4~ci::
Other CaliforLniad Lodges .............................._ 932.50
Other U. S. 0 ges....................................... 3S.OO
Foreign Lodges .............................................: 12S.OO
Funerals........................................................... 91.64 $1,6S8.14
Flowers ...........................................................:___
. contri'b u t'ion s................... .$518.75
From per capita
290 SO
Subscriptions from other Lodges................
.

Receipts During the Year

147.SO
493.93
961.00
533.00

2,135.43

From per capita contributions ......................................$ 582.54
Interest ..............................................................................
41.61
Miscellaneous ..................................................................
72.28

696.43

. t

-

809.2S

2,467.39

.....................$2,724.39

Total balance and rece1p s.................................. ·

Total balance and receipts ........................................................$3,881.90

Disbursements
For relief:
Other California Lodges ........................................ $ 484.38
Other U. S. Lodges ................................................ 1,092.90
Funerals ............. :...................................................... 533.00 $2, 110.28
For salaries ....................................,...................................$ 600.00
Telephone and telegraph ............................................. .
6.07
Printing, stationery and postage ..................................
11.73
Audit ..................................................................................
15.00

697.81

---

.. .........................$2,808.09
Total disbursements ........................................ .

Less contributed by Employment Bureau..........................

Grand Lodge of California ............................................$
Other California Lodges ................................................
Other U. S. Lodges ........................................................ ..
Funerals .......................................................................... ..

6S.Ol

........................................... ..................

Disbursem~ts

For relief:
$ 7000
California Lodges .............:.......................................... 972:00
Other U. S. Lodges.................................................... 2S.OO
Foreign L odges ............................................................ 165.15

~~i:~~ ~:-: :·:·: :·:·:·:·:·: ·: ·:·:·:·: ':' ': :': ·:·-: ·:: ·:-: ·: ·:·:-: ·: :·:-: ·::·:::·:·:: ·: :·:·: :: ;:: ·: ~~:~~ $1,717.16
4

For telephone an d t eI egraph ...................

.........................$ 68.97
10S.5S

~,::;:~:·;~; :::::::~ ::::::::::::::::::::::=.::::=.:::=. ;EE
Salaries (Employment Service) .....................................:___

609.38

.
t
................................$2,326.54
Total d1sbursemen s ................................... .

Balance July 31, 1931 ................................................ ..

.....................:..$ 397.85

f

676

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Requests for Reimbursements

The requests for reimbursement which we have reported to the
Finance Committee, with the recommendation that payment be made
from the funds of Grand Lodge, are as follows:

Your Board of Control has anticipated that owing to the general
business conditions existing throughout the country, the requests for
reimbursement of funds for relief extended would exceed any previous
period. Fortunately however we are happy to announce that they are
not only not greater, but are a substantial amount less than ever
before.
The results obtained this year were brought about by the excellent cooperation and diligence and business-like methods of the
splendid secretaries of our various Boards of Relief, and the valuable
assistance of our Most Worshipful Grand Master and Very W orshipful Grand Secretary.
We also desire to give special commendation to five of our
Boards of Relief who request NO reimbursement.
Your Board has been able this year to analyze more fully than
ever before the requests for reimbursement with the result that in
several cases the charges have been placed against the individual
Lodge, where they belong, rather than a·g ainst the funds of our
Grand Lodge.
There are still many problems confronting your Board of Control
in the matter of disbursing money for relief.
We also still have with us the matter of duplication of relief and
"repeaters." Two cases stand out as illustrations of this. During the
year a member of an Arkansas Lodge received money from five different Boards of Relief; another member of an Illinois Lodge was
successful in getting money from four different Boards of Relief.
Correspondence in both of these cases would indicate no urgent need
of relief and no disposition on the part of the home Lodge to reimburse. In order that our various Boards of Relief may be better
enabled to guard against duplication and "repeaters," your Board of
Control purposes to send to each Board of Relief an itemized list of
all cases upon which reimbursement has been made.
At the outset your Board of Control had for consideration
requests for reimbursement covering 147 cases. After completing
our findings we have approved requests covering 114 cases, totaling
$6,458.94. This is a decrease over last year of 19 cases and $422.73.
The numbers and amount of the requests approved are:
4 cases-California Lodges -----·------·------·-----·--·--.. ·--·----·-·$ 790.00
86 cases-From 32 other United States jurisdictions 3,744.39
24 cases-From 7 foreign jurisdictions ........................ 1,767.57
Unclassified relief ............................ -.............. 156.98
T otal.. ..........................................................$6,458.94

677

Alameda:
1 United States jurisdiction ..................................$

15.00 $

15.00

Fresno:
5 United States jurisdictions ................................$
2 Foreign jurisdictions·..........................................

43.00
10.00

53.00

Los Angeles:
33 United States jurisdictions ................................$1,000.59
5 Foreign jurisdictions·······················---------···-···--· 194.50
Unclassified .......................................................... 156.98

1,352.07

East Bay:
1 California Lodge ..................................................$ 390.00
25 United States jurisdictions ................................ 1,441.65
4 Foreign jurisdictions .......................................... 304.00

2,135.65

Sacramento:
6 United States Jurisdictions ..... c••••••••••••••••••••••••••$ 192.50
2 Foreign jurisdictions .......................................... 185.00

377.50

San Francisco:
2 California Lodges ................................................$ 335.00
11 United States jurisdictions ....... ,........................ 1,002.55
8 Foreign jurisdictions.......................................... 645.30

1,982.85

San Jose:
1 United States jurisdiction ..•...................•...........$

4.10

4.10

Santa Monica:
3 United States jurisdictions ................................$
1 Foreign jurisdiction ............................................

20.00
15.00

35.00

Stockton:
1 California Lodge ..................................................$

65.00

65.00

Bell Lodge No. 483:
1 United States jurisdiction .................................$

25.00

25.00

678

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

679

Employment Service

Marin Lodge No. 191:
1 Foreign jurisdiction ..~ .........................................$ 288.77

288.77

Rising Light Lodge No. 397:
1 Foreign jurisdiction ............................................$ 125.00

125.00

Total........................•...:~ ......................................................$6,458.94
Financial Reports-Pagl! 258-1930
A comparative financial report for 1930 and 1931, showing the
receipts and expenditures of the respective Employment Service
Bureaus is attached hereto and made a part of this report.

Appropriations for Boards of Relief
The Board of Control, after consideration of all claims for
reimbursement from the respective Boards of Relief and Lodges, and
after due conference with the respective parties in each and every
case, has recommended to the Finance Committee allowance of the
following claims:
Last
Not
year
Boards of Relief
Claim approved Approved
15.00
Alameda ....................................$ 15.00 ···-············ $
················
58.00 $ 58.00 ················ $ 27.00
Bakersfield ................................
57.00
53.00
Fresno ........................................
53.00 ................
1,550.28
10.00 1,352.07
Los Angeles.............................. 1,362.07
1,351.11
1,184.80 2,135.65
Oakland- Berkeley .................. 3,320.45
200.50
377.50
145.00
Sacramento ...........:.................. 522.50
1,982.85 2,686.74
75.00
San Francisco............................ 2,057.85
147.50
4.10
San Jose......................................
4.10 ................
154.00
35.00
Santa Monica............................
35.00 ················
Lodges
25.00 ................
25.00 ................
Bell ..............................................
50.00
60.00 ................
60.00
San Bernardino ....................... .
266.12 ................ ................
Woodland .................................. 266.12
397.54
288.77
Marin .......................................... 288.77 ................
720.00 ................. ................
Whittier .................................... 720.00
125.00 ------····-·····
Rising Light.............................. 125.00 ···---··········
220.00 ················ ................
Mt. Diablo.................................. 220.00
158.80 ................ ................
Truckee ...................................... 158.80
387.50 ................. ················
Pacific Grove ...............:............ 387.50
65.00 .................
65.00 ················
Stockton ....................................
260.00
San Fernando....................... .
···-····-······· ................
Totals..................................$9,744.16 $3,285.22 $6,458.94 $6,881.67

Perhaps no phase of Masonic activity is entitled to more attention
or should receive greater emphasis at this time than our Employment
Service. Reports from the established Service Bureaus and Employment Committees throughout the jurisdiction indicate that methods
and procedure are continuing to improve and greater efficiency and
better results are being attained.
A questionnaire sent to the managers of the principal Service
Bureaus resulted in some very interesting information. It was found
that in six cases out of nine the registration of · new applicants is
increasing monthly at this time, as well as showing an increase over
the corresponding period of 1930.
In five out of nine places, more trained men are now applying
for work than formerly, but in only two places, San Francisco and
Los Angeles, are the managers able to place more of these men than
formerly.
It is important to note that inquiries from employers are increasing in the East Bay (Oakland) and Los Angeles districts.
A majority of the managers believe that it is possible and necessary for the Masonic Service to be as efficient and complete as are
the services of the pay agency. They feel that by carefully invest;gating applicants and placing them only when qualified, the employer
gets confidence in our Service and becomes an ardent booster for it.
No attempt is made ordinarily to record the probable value of
our Employment Service, but the Los Angeles Service has submitted
such a report for the months of May, June and July, 1931. This
report shows that the placements made by that office for these three
months would have returned $7,907.32 in fees if the positions secured
had been paid for by the applicant at the same rates charged by the
pay agency.
This "dollar-and-cents" measure of the service rendered by one
office is presented to again urge the importance of the work being
done by the Employment Service.
Following is a brief sum~ary of the several reports:
San Francisco:
1930
1931
Applications received.................................................... 3,347
3,807
Positions secured.....................................-...................... 1,382
937
Cost per unit.................................................................... $2.91
$5.00
East Bay (Oakland):
Applications received.................................................... 1,978
1,469
981
Positions secured.............................................................
764
Cost per unit ..................................:....;............................ $5.84
$4.80

680

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles:
Applications received .................................................... 6,302.
Positions secured................·-········································· 1,658
Cost per unit ................................·.................................... $6.27
San Diego:
Applications received,..................................................
513
Positions secured..................,..····························-·········
Cost per unit ............................,....................................... $6.64
Long Beach:
Applications received ..................................................... 1,369
Positions secured...............................................;............ 1,150
Cost per unit......·-···························-······························ '$1.87
Santa Monica:
600
Applications received .................·-··-··-························
239
Positions secured................................•...........................
Cost per unit .................................................................... None
Alameda:
38 positions secured. No expense.

7,574
2,043
$5.03
609
531
$4.00
1,595
1,289
$1.87
129
36
$2.75

A comparative financial report for 1930 and 1931, showing the
receipts and expenditures of the respective Employment Service
Bureaus, is attached hereto and made a part of this report.
Appropriations for Service Bureaus
Your Board of Control has recommended the appropriations for
the respective Employment Services of the jurisdiction totaling
$9 ,200.00 as follows:
Requested Recommended Last year
Los Angeles ..........................................$2,400.00
$2,400.00
$2,400.00
San Francisco........................................ 2,400.00
2,400.00
2,400.00
East Bay ................................................ 1,200.00
1,200.00
1,000.00
San Diego.......................................•...... 1,500.00
1,400.00
1,400.00
1,800.00
1,800.00
Long Beach ·····'·················.··················· 2,000.00
Santa Monica........................................ 132.50
Nothing
300.00
$9,200.00

Service, recommends that said committee again issue a. similar paper
devoted to the same purpose.
Noting the satisfactory results obtained by employment committees in Lodges, we recommend that all Lodges be urged to appoint
such committees to aid in the general unemployment of our own
brethren in the various sections of the State.
DAVID]. REESE, Chairman.
ROBERT F. CALLENDER,
FRANK M. WISE,

Financial Reports

Totals..............................................$9,632.50

681

$9,300.00

Recommendations
· Your Board of Control, appreciative of the assistance of the Committee on Masonic Education in preparing and submitting to the
Lodges a paper on the functions and opportunities of our Employment

JAMES R. ERSKINE,
EUGENE S. ·ELKUS.

Approved.
Adopted, except those portions relating to proposed appropriations, and they were referred to the Committee on
Finance.

1-:l

Total Expenditures.............. 4,031.43

4,684.80 4,466.84 4,707.27

10,401.09

~

10,277.64 2,171-25 2,128-20 2,155.85 2,420.39

NET RECEIPTS
21.03
222.80
119.35
95.94
ABOVE EXPENDITURES 148-57
220.89
9.25
129.75
462.57
1,216.80
307.38
Cash Balance Aug_ 1, 1929...... 433.67
Aug.
1,
1930
______
86-49
453.32
582-24
1,312.74
"
"
453.32
676.12
107.52
Cash Balance End of Period.. 582-24
701.59 1,312.74 1,182.99
86.49
328
2043
531
937
764
981
1658
1382
Positions Secured·------------··-·---·5_03
4.00
5.84
6.64
5.00
6-27
4.80
$2.91
Cost Per Unit·-··-······-·-··-··-·-·--·Alameda-Thirty-eight positions secured. No expense.
Santa Monica-Thirty-six positions secured. $3.68 per Unit.
Santa Monica-Received $300 from Grand Lodge. Expenditures $132.50. Balance $167.50.

24.63
39.05

301.73

63.68
1150
1.87

63.68
365.41
1289
1.87

l'j

MASONIC BOARD OF R ELIEF
Statistical Information
For the Year Ending July 31, 1931

Items of RecordLocation of Boards of Relief:
San Francisco
Composed of Members from Each Blue
Lodge -·----·-·---·-------------------------------··--·--·--··
54
Managed by --------·-------------------------------·--------·
Secretary
Number Meetings Per Month..................
2
Per Capita Assessment During Year........
25c
Number Paid Employees............................
2
Secretary's Salary·-------------------------------------··
$3600 yr.
Assistant Secretary's Salary _____________________ _
Typist's or Clerk's Salary..........................
$900 yr.

Los Angeles

Long Beach

71
Secretary
1
60c
5
$250 per mo.
$150 mo. Emeritus
$100 mo. Emeritus

Mast. & Wardens
Secretary
1
75c per mo.
1
$225 mo.
None
None

Field Man's Salary......................................
None
Switchboard Operator's Salary..................
None
Fidelity Bond-Name Carrier.................... Pac. Ind. Co.
Amount Treasurer's Bond..........................
$2000
Amount Secretary's Bond..........................
$2000
Amount of Fidelity Ins. and Carrier ...... Pac. Ind. Co.

$175 mo. Emeritus
None
Pac. lndem. Co.
$2000
$2000

Compensation Insurance and Carrier ...... ($21.78 yearly
, Gen. Acc.)
Number Automobiles Used-Name .......... Sec. furnishes
own
Auto J nsurance and Carrier....................... .

(lndem. Ins. Co.
of No. America)
1 Buick

None
None
Pac. Indem. Co.
$5000
$500
($10,000-$20,000;
Fid. Un. Cas. Co.)
(Fid. Un. Cas. Co.)

Number Funerals Conducted by Board..
None
Number Funerals Conducted by Lodges..
97
Undertaker's Charge .................... :...............
Avg-. $75
Cost of Opening and Closing Grave........
$16
Cost of Funeral Service.............................. Cond·1cted by
Lod~e~

Total Cost of Funeral..................................

Avg. $100

Auto Club,
So. Calif.
220
24
$60, charity only
$6
$20
Interment $102
Cremation $110

1 Chevrolet
Fid. Un. Cas. Co.
40
5

$5 Flowers

Oakland
Berkeley
30
Secretary
1
Sc to 12J4c
2
None
$175 mo.
($50 mo., Relief & Employ.)
None
None
Pac. Ind. Co.
None
$2000
Independence,
Ind.
1 Chevrolet
Occ. Und. &
Maryland Cas.
64
13
$100
$40
Nothing
Cremation
$135-$140
Interm'nt $275

San Diego

Santa Monica

7
Secretary
1
75c per mo.
1
$2400 yr.

3
Sec. & Treas.
1
25c
None
None
None
None

Pasadena

s
Pres. & Sec.
Called by Pres.
55c
1
$75 mo.

ti
0

Grand Lodge
$1000
$1000
None

Pac. Ind. Co.
None
$500
None

None

None

None

1 Buick

None

1 Buick

None

None

59

39
3
$62.50
$62.50

Glens Fall. Pd.
by Secretary
29
No Record
$75
$20 Inc. Box
$5

$125.00

$125 Approx.

No fixed amt.

ti

t:"'
0

Transport. $70
None
Pac. Ind. Co.
$500
$500
$1000

No fixed amt.
$12.50
No fixed amt.

0

:0

z>
l'j

1

0
".J
0

~

>-<

6
:0
z....

>

00
°'
"'

Amount of Fidelity Ins. and Carrier....Number Automobiles Used-Name........ Auto Insurance and Carrier........--------·····
Number Funerals Conducted by Boan] ....
Number Funerals Conducted by Lodges..
Undertaker's Charge....................................
Cost of Opening and Clo.sing Grave....... .
Cost of Funeral Service............................
T otal Cost of Funeral..................................

None

Private Car

12
None
None

l'.l

Co.-$15
Hupmobile
Public Liability
l; 1obe Ind. Co.
5
6
$90 min.
$45

11

$10 to $12.50
$8

Sect. own car
Personal policy

1 Essex
Union Ind. Co.

18
All co.nducted by
Lodge
$75 min.
$15

6
10
$100
$12

$98 to $150

$157

$135

6

9

SUMMARY
Total Receipts
Incl. Balance

Total
Reller

Per
Cent

GroS3
Overhead

Per
Cent

San Francisco..........................$ 35,756.58
Los Angeles ............................ 63,426.70
Long Beach.............................. 6,243.06
Oakland and Berkeley.......... 30,476.13
San Diego ................................ 12,133.43
2,724.39
Santa Monica --··········-··········-·
Pasadena .................................. 4,422.12
266.54
Alameda ..................................
San ] ose....-----···-········-············ 3,881.90
Fresno ...................................... 3,364.11
5,048.23
Sacramento ............................
892.66
Bakersfield ..............................
Richmond ......................:.........
175.02
Honolulu ..................................
1,989.00

$ 20,989.27
41,153.67
2,177.40
17,772.55
8,663.67
1,874.66
1,695.00
192.50
2,125.28
1,047.74
1,677.06
472.64
114.00
289.44

77.9
74.4
37.2
67.6
77.1
80.6
65
100
75.7
36.4
73.1
60
95.8
86.47

$ 5,949.74
14,072.16
3,082.07
8,530.75
2,566.22
385.17
905.65

21.1
25.6
62.8
32.4
22.9
19.4
35

$ 5,400.00
10,216.00
2,700.00
6,350.00
2,400.00

682.81
1,829.65
618.00
308.07
5.00
334.43

24.3
63.6
29.9
40
4.2
13.53

600.00
1,800.00
540.00
300.00

Totals................................$170,799.87

$100,244.88

- -

$39,269.72

Salaries

900.00

-----------___________
.,

$31,206.00

Balance
On Hand

$ 8,817.57
8,098.12
983.59
4,172.83
903.54
397.85
1,821.47
74.04
1,073.81
486.72
2,753.17
104.95
56.02
1,654.57
$31,398.25

0

:i:i

>
z
0

t'
0
ti
0
l'.l
0

l:i:j
()

>

~

l:i:j

0

:i:i

z

>

°'
00
""

60.74
55.00
145.00

57.00
Fresno -----------------------------Sacramento ---·---------'------·- 200.30
27.00
Bakersfield ---------------------Richmond ------···········-··-··· ----------·Honolulu ----------····-··-···-··-- -----------Totals ···---·-···---------···-$8,468.93

·----·-----------------

279.06
160.00

------------

------------

258.16

913.50
287.64
114.00
26.28

$38,887.76

$21,073.58

$63,093.88

5.00

271.16

411.50
343.10
64.00
46.13

-----------------------------·----

$19,136.48

$57,548.99

$2,879.82

15.00

::i:

l?'J

5.00
$3,831.33

ANNUAL REPORT
MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF
For Twelve Months Ending July 31, 1931
Los Angeles

San Francisco
19.30
19.31
9285 . 71
Bui. on Hand W.t Report .... . . . . • 8455.46
Refund of Relief Expenditures . . . . . . • . • • • . . . .
. . . . . . ••
Grand Lodge or California..........
2846.05
2686. 74
Other California Lodges.... . . . . . • .
6153. 31
6904 . 74
Other United States Lodges... . • . ..
8759. 23
9556 .16
Foreign Lodges .•.....•.•.•.•... •
388.45
580.65
Funerals • • . . . . . . • .. .. . . • . . • . • • • • . • . • . • .
.. . • • • . •
Individuals . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . • . • .. .. . . • .
.. . . .. . .

19.30
6515.86
• .. .. .. .
2942.15
3660. 54
23,844. 79
635.33
.. • . • .. .
30.00

19.31
7210 . 27
• • ••••••
1550.28
5481.08
28,612 .02
1713.57
. • .•..•.
103.05

Total Refunds ............... 18,147:04 19,728.29
Other Receipts .. . . . .. .. . . . . . . • ..
36.26
• .. . • .. .
~'ram Supporting Lodges and Bodies..
5529.25
5546.00
Interest.. . . ... .................
835.22
888.19
Other Items . • . • . • . . .. .. .. . . . . ..
1025.00
308 . 39

31,112.81
. . . .. .. .
17,699.95
136 . 30
1906.56

37 ,460.00
.. ......
17,679.28
27.91
1049 . 24

Total Receipts ............. .

7425.73

Total Receipts including Balance
from Last Report ......... 34,028.23

6742.58

Lana Beach

Berkelo-Oakland

San Diego

19.30
4626 .50

19.31
3676.59

19.30
1032 . 50

19.31
819.20

19.ou
153 .29

::: :: :

664 . 65
2745.08
9316.09
406.50
1352 . 82
837 .12

2526 . 11
2811.36
7641.13
287.90
1408 .50
1531. 71

105. 80
1699.50
9054.95
25.00

2568.'7
5997. 80
154. 75

15.00
1465. 24

2101.18

1602.90 ·15,322.26

16,206.71

10,885.25

3766.93
28 . 09

3777:37
25.60

4998.63
138.20
.15

9086 .86
174.26
18.47

2370 :34

24.94
Ill.IO

89.46

19,742.81 18,756.43
3795.02 3802.97
5136 . 98
Transfer of funds of Employment Service 1312 . 74

9279.59

2506 . 38

2570. 21

·40:50

77.75
1458.24
100.00
424. 69

250.00
871.90
..... 481. 00

23.00

--

87 44. 02
......
2480. 75

.....

63,426. 70

6692.43

6243.06

26,398.48

29,163.39

14,424.13

12,133.43

5742.14
9453.08
1086.65
623.35

7118.71
11,013.71
1286.65
188.15

3986 . 54
24,372.90
708.08
764.00
3764.54
192.46

5273.94
29,076.38
1620.57
90.00
3951.59

218.50
166.50
1406.64 1024 . 90
5.00
50.00
I. 75
466.50
475.00

3447.81
10,609 . 50
670 . 15

3781.24
10,940. 60
433.21

1754 . 83
8210.64
25.00

2394.35
6024.47
140.90

1530.50

2617.50

600.00
36.00

200.00
35 . 00
147 .05

Tot.al Rellef Expenditures .. •... 17.540.90

20.989.27

.. .....

..... .

. .... .

88.95

806.00
87 .50
253.69

365.00
25 . 00

437 :50

25.00

52.50
5098.19

41.153.67

2489.89

2177.40

21 ,408.65

1480. 24
197.21
340.50

...

1658 .14
815.75
290 ; 50

-2017.
---95 1106. 25

!;}
~

>-z
0

....

g
Q
l'l

~
()

57,371.48

33,788.52

19.31
257 .00
1204.14
454 . 00
20.00
932.50
35.00
125.00
91.64

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------

35,756 . 58

FOR RELIEFCalifornia Jurisdiction . ..•.•.. . . ..
Other United States .Turisdirtions • .•.
Foreign Jurlsdfctions .. : ..... . ... .
Repayment to· Gr. LOdge-'-:californfa .
Funerals ... .. ................. .
Individuals .. . ................. .
Contributed to Employment Bureau .•
Audit ....... • ....•...•.•....•.•
Other Items . . ..•.•........... • .

Slnta Monica

19.31
837.13

19.30
796.23

15 . 00
80.28

17.772.55

2171.24

2724.39

30.00 . 70.00
1440.18
997.00 .
5.00
25.00
165 .15

297 :i5

15.00

~

~
~

z

>

400.01
132 .50
25.00
60.00

---------------10.085.75
8663.67 1772 . 33 1874.66
Misc.

37 .20

°'00
....,

Percentage Expended for Reller.....

67 . 6%

77.9%

Pasadena

67.3%

74.4%

Alameda

42.5%

37 . 2%

Fresno

San Jose

1930
Balance on Hand Last Report . . . . . . . . IOP5.31

1931
1262.52

1930
76.54

1931
51.60

1931
1050.04

1930
279.62

Refund of Relief Expenditures ... . ...•
Grand Lodge or California ....... ... .
Other California Lodges ............ .
Other U. 8. Lodges ... • . •....... . . .•
Foreign Lodges . . . • . . . .. • ... . .. ... .
Funerals .. .. .•.. . .. ... . •. .. . . • ...
Individuals ........ • . • ..• . ••...•. . .

820.00
25.00
1119. 75
30.45

90.00
25.00
5.34

..
50.00
•....
72.50

147.50
493.93
961.00

105.00
579.00

780.00
515.00
474.00

.... .

..

1995.20

Total Receipts • . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . 1382.06
Total Receipts, including Balance
from Last Report . . ... . •.••. 4236.37-

1164.40

130.34

1132.45
31.95

67.6%

80%

Sacramento

1931
347.37
1079. 74
57.00
60.74
992.00

533.00

10.00

Total Refunds • . . . . . . . . • . . . • . • 1769.00
Other Receipts . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
. ....
From Supporting Lodges and Bodies . .. 1366.40
Interest . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • .
15.66
Other Items .. .... • . . ...•.. .. ••...

80.7%

Bakersfield

77.1 %

93.1%

Richmond

80.6%

Honolulu

1930
3248.35

1931
3323.67

1931
174.56

1930
105.47

1931
58.47

1931
1544.21

3R4:oo
280.00
1057.50
20.00

200.30
55.00
411. 50
5.00
16.00

·21:00
145.00
343.10

49.00

6°4°.00

271.16
46.13

49.00

64.00

317.29

150.13

27.00

2135.43

83U3

1136.74

1741.90

687.80

515.10

582.54
41.81
72.28

1835. 75

18·8·0".oo

9"13·. 76

9"£8: 74
107.82

io'i.oo

52.55

----92. 44
696. 43

1835. 75

1880.00

973. 76

1036.56

203.00

52.55

29"49:50

3364.11

5964.01

5048:23

89·2:66

154.47

175.02

19s·9·.oo

95.24
842.50
10.00

380.21
1441.65
02.50

279.0G
913.5Q
217.51)

71.00

114.00

258.16
26.28
5.00

100.00

271.00

2°43:00

160.00
287.64
15.00
10.00

122.50

··
···
92.44

4422.12

206.88

266.54

820.00
740.00

37.50

120.00

· ·5:00
91.54
5.34

72.50

.....

3881.90

.....

. ....

i2'1".50

EXPENDITURES
FOR RELIEF
California Jurisdiction . .... .. . .. 1095.00
Other U. 8. Jurisdictions.. . . . . . . 846.45
Foreign Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . .
. ..• .
Repayment t o Grand Lodge, Calif.. 120.00
Funerals ...................•.
Individuals ... . . ..... ..... . ... .
Contributed to Employment Bureau
10.00
Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . •
Other Items . . . . . . . . . . . . •....

125.00

105.00
648.48
20.00

533.00

"10: 00
1695.00

902.40

905.65

.90

Total Expenditures . . . . . . . . . 2973.85
Balance on Hand This ReJlort . . . . 1262.52
Percentage Expended fo r Relief. . .
69. 2 %

2600.65
182 1.4 7
65 %

140.28
66.60
99.3 %

192.50

1047.74

2145.36

1677.06

472.64

600.00

1860.00

1800.00

540.00

540.00

300.00

5. 50

6.07
11.73

3.35
6.00

.95
4.80

45.72
1.25

67:00
11.00

.15

65.01

.90

192.50
74.04
100 %

l>j

l>j

773.48

900.00

19.30

23.90

71.00

114.00

289.44

5.07
3.00

25.00

3.00
1.00
1.00

6.49

0

. :ii

z

>

3·8:50

20:00

682.81

1828.65

1829.65

606.97

618.00

308.07

25.00

5.00

2808.09
1073.Rl
75.7 %

2602.13
347.37
29.7 %

2877.39
486.72
36.4 %

2752.33
3211.68

2295.06
2753.17

787. 71
104.95
60%

96.00
58.47
73 %

119.00
56.02
95.8 %

77%

ti
t'
0
ti
0
l"l
0

t

2125.28

139.38

~
>
z

()

20.00
4.00

15.00

Total Relief Expenditure . .... 2071.45
FOR EXPENSE
Salaries • . . . • . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . 900.00
Rent ... . . ...•... . . . .. ... ... .
Automoblle Allowance and Expense
2.40
Telephone, 'telegraph . . . . . . . • . . •
Printing, Stationery and Postage . .
Traveling Expense . .. . .....•... .
Field Representative Expense .. . . .
Other Jtems .. .... ... .•. . . ....
Less Contributed by Emp. Bureau .
Total Expense . . . . . . . • . . . .
Revising Roster Grand Lodge . .. . .
Office Equipment Purchased ..... .

484.38
1092.90

:i:
!:'.!

....

n.1 3

·····
7.00

334.43
1654.57
86.47 %

°'00
•D

690

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Organ Solo, "Traumerei''...................................................................... Schumann
Prayer ..............................................................................................Grand Chaplain
"The Lord is my light and my salvation; Whom shall I fear? The
Lord is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
' 10ne thing have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after; that I
may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold
the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple."
Fifty-six members of this Grand Lodge have laid aside their working tools and joined the ever-increasing majority in the Supreme Grand
Lodge of the Universe, since the last report of this committee.
Many of these departed brethren left footprints on the sands of time
in the communities in which they lived, thus adding to the glorious record
of service rendered to this great State by Masons in every walk of life.
Time and space will not permit your committee to go into detail relative to the services rendered by these brethren to their respective communities; however, we find listed the names of four who have rendered
distinguished service to this Grand Lodge. They are: William T. Lucas,
Past Grand Master; Charles E. Glidden, Grand Bible Bearer; William
C. Hassler, Past Grand Orator, and William Kettner, Past Grand
Marshal.
The virtues and accomplishments of these brethren will be given to
you later in more detail by some of the more eloquent members of this
Grand Lodge.
The list of our departed brethren is as follows:
California Lodge No. l
William C. Hassler, died August 1, 1931.
Gold Hill Lodge ~o. 32
George Francis Pemberton, died May 19, 1931.
San Diego Lodge No. 35
William Kettner, died November 11, 1930.
Minard Jonathan Perrin, died November 26, 1930.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38
George Henry Rostrom, died October 18, 1930.
Sacramento Lodge No. 40
Richard Palmer Burr, died November 18, 1930.
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57
Charles Dwight Garnett, died June 9, 1931.
Morning Star Lodge No. 68
Edgar Warren Butters, died September 9, 1930.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pajaro Lodge No. 110
Henry Warren Angel, died March 25, 1931.
Fidelity Lodge No. 120
Gustave Brenner, died October 11, 1930.
Grafton Lodge No. 141
Barkley Gilbert Peart, died December 24 1930.
Phoenix Lodge No. 178
'
Walter Byron Howes, died June 7, 1931.
Arbuckle Lodge No. 182
Roscoe Rahn, died August 24, 1930.
Oakland Lodge No. 188
George Edward Perki.ns, died June 18, 1931.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
William Kennedy, died February 26 1931
Friendship Lodge No. 210
'
·
George Washington Worthen, died May 20, 1931.
Athens Lodge No. 228
Hugh Arthur Robson, died November 24 1930
Solano Lodge No. 229
'
·
Louis Garibaldi Harrier, died September 9, 1930.
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237
William Thomas Lucas, died March 21, 1931.
Laurel Lodge No. 245
William M. Finch, died May 12, 1931.
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260
Henry Andrew Ranft, died January 3, 1931.
North East Lodge No. 266
George Martin Kober, died April 24, 1931.
Durant Lodge No. 268
Robert Greig, died March 28, 1931.
Marion P. Stone, died July 8, 1931.
George Washington Holt, died July 17, 1931.
South West Lodge No. 283
Charles C~ristopher Van Deripe, died October 8, 1930.
Warren Briggs Vaughn, died July 17, 1931.
East Gate Lodge No. 290
Frank Rominar Willis, died February 12, 1931.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292
Peter Franklin Lint, died June 25, 1931.
Turlock Lodge No. 301
William Willis Abbott, died June 8, 1931.
Azusa Lodge No. 305
Herbert W.illiam Saunders, died July 18, 1930.
John Francis Wetherby, died March 22, 1930.
George Martens, died January 15, 1931.

691

692

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sisson Lodge No. 310
Charles E. Glidden, died December 11, 1930.
Temescal Lodge No. 314
Albert Clark Wood, died December 2, 1930.
Orean Alexander Ward, died May 3, 1931.
South Gate Lodge No. 320
William Winters Tritt, died Sept. 6, 1930.
Whittier Lodge No. 323
William Alonzo Jones, died April 16, 1931.
Palestine Lodge No. 351
Samuel Gowen, died April 27, 1931.
Charity Lodge No. 362
Fleury K. Bartholomew, died August 27, · 1930.
Richmond Lodge No. 375
Frederick Calvin Jenks, died June 21, 1931.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382
Elmore R. Jeffery, died July 6, 1931.
Orosi Lodge No. 383
Charles Campbell, died April 9, 1931.
University Lodge No. 394
Samuel David Burger, died October 10, 1930.
.Inglewood Lodge No. 421
William Hall, died July, 1930.
York Lodge No. 423
Louis Richard Gillette, died April 22, 1931.
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453
Clarence Frank Bovee, died June 10, 1931.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458
John Henry Sheridan, died August 22, 1930.
Culver City Lodge No. 467
Arthur Clyde Galloway, died August 3, 1930.
Charles Emmert Shillito, died April 19, 1931.
Vallejo Lodge No. 487
Edward Christopher Morris, died June 13, 1931.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
.
Winford Leroy Fuller, died April 13, 1931.
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511
Wilbur Lorne Epps, died October 1, 1930.
Bellflower Lodge No. 523
George Thomas Elsey, died April 26, 1931.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546
Roy Archibald Morehead, died June 24, 1931.
Triangle Lodge No. 548
Geoffrey Ducan Harrison Heriot, died November 1, 1930.

·

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

693

Military Service Lodge No. 570
William Sample Edgar, died December 12, 1930.
Joseph Ritter, died June 27, 1931.
Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598
George Washington Bigler, died June 15, 1931.
Modesto Lodge No. 675
Travis Baily Townsend died April 12, 1931.
While we mourn the passing of these brethren and extend to their
loved ones our sincere sympathy, we take com fort in the knowledge that
they were so imbued with the teachings of Masonry that they were
"prepared to welcome death, not as a grim tyrant, but as a kind messenger sent to translate them from this imperfect, to that all perfect, glorious and celestial Lodge above, where the Supreme Grand Master of
the Universe forever presides."
"And so we leave them here with happy tears,
Their glorious record on our scrolls to write.
And may their lives of Service through the years
Bring them their great reward, eternal light."
WM. H. PARCELLS,
WM.
MAX

M. H OLBROOK,
A. PLU MB,
Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

694

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

String Quartette-Adagio from "Sonata Pathetique".................. Beethovcn
First Violin, Franz Adelmann; Second Violin, Vinton La Ferrera;
Viola, Nathan Firestone; Cello, Anton Tobias.
In Memoriam William T. Lucas
By FRANCIS J. McCoy
William Thomas Lucas was born in Buc.h anan county, near St.
Joseph, Missouri, on March 18, 1850, the son of George J. and Sally
Thomas Lucas. The Lucas family were old Southern stock and traced
their ancestry back to the settlement made by Lord Baltimore in Maryland. The Lucas name is well known in Missouri history, and many of
the family played very important parts in the settlement of the West.
Dr. Lucas grew up as a · boy in Missouri in the stirring times before
the outbreak of the Civil War. His father was an ardent Southerner
and at the outbreak of the war joined the Confederate forces, leaving
the family in charge of this eleven-year-old boy, who gave a good account of himself even that early. While there were many Southerners in
northern Missouri at that time, still the sentiment was very strongly
pro-Union and it was very uncomfortable for the Lucas family, so they
and several of their friends started the westward trek to Montana in
1864, where they located for a time in Deer Valley of that State. They
moved on westward in 1868 and settled at Woodland, California.
His schooling, interrupted in Missouri, was again taken up in Montana by private tutors and the public school, and Dr. Lucas later taught
school in Yolo county, California. His ambition had always been to
become a physician, and he had saved enough money from his school
teaching to defray his expenses in the University of the Pacific in San
Francisco, which he entered in the early 70's. For a short time he practiced in Woodland and then came to Guadalupe, Santa Barbara county,
in 1879, and was continuously in the practice of his profession in the
Santa Maria Valley for more than fifty years.
Under a seemingly gruff exterior at times, Dr. Lucas had a kind
and gentle heart and was most beloved by the thousands of patients that
he had cared for during his long medical practice. I remember an incident that happened in our Guadalupe Lodge many years ago. One of
the brothers came up and spoke to Dr. Lucas and asked him if he remembered who he was, and on Dr. Lucas saying that he did not, the man
said, "You should remember me, as you brought me into the world."
Dr. Lucas jokingly remarked that he had brought many thousands into
the world, and on counting up the members present, there were over
thirty people in the Lodge room that night that Dr. Lucas had helped
bring into the world. He was the most beloved physician that has ever
been in our locality, and many are the stories that are related of his sac-

695

rificing spirit in going at all hours of the day and night, over rough roads
and through winding pathways, on horseback, to relieve the sick and
suffering. His name will ever be a benediction in the Santa Maria Valley.
Dr. Lucas was an ardent Mason. He was made a Mason shortly
after coming to Guadalupe, and served that Lodge for many years as
Master. He was elected again and again to fill the chair in the East. He
was considered the Grand Old Man of our Lodge and some years ago
we gave him a gold card as a life member in our Lodge. He was elected
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of California in 1896, and was also
affiliated in the Chapter and Commandery orders. He served the Grand
Lodge for many years on the Committee on Grievances.
Dr. Lucas was a great student of history and had a fine Masonic
library. He was particularly well versed in English history, French
history, and the history of the Popes, and had quite a library on all three
subjects. Indeed, he was quite a student of literature, and Shakespeare
was his favorite poet.
Dr. Lucas was an outstanding citizen of the community, a good man,
and a good Mason. I believe that for the first thirty years of his practice, although it was · a large one, and covered nearly all the northern
end of Santa Barbara county, he had amassed but little money. Indeed
money was never the object of Dr. Lucas' life. He was hardly ever sick
and was strong and rugged to the last, and was ill less than a week.
The day of his death, March 21, 1931, was a sad one in our community,
when we learned that Dr. Lucas had passed, and the community was
plunged in the deepest sorrow, but we all felt that he had lived and done
his duty as a true man and Mason.

696

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In Memoriam of Charles E. Glidden
By Gus A. HuTAFF
Amidst our rejoicing and recounting the blessings we have ·enjoyed
during the. year, we cannot but be saddened by the reflections that the
Grim Reaper-Death- has invaded the ranks of our Grand Lodge.
With the passing of our late Grand Bible Bearer, Charles Edward
Glidden, on December 11, 1930, while acting as Senior Deacon in the
conferring of the Master Mason degree in Howard Lodge No. 37 in
Yreka, California, Masonry has suffered a distinct loss, for Brother
Glidden was always a wise counselor, a faithful and efficient co-operator.
It seemed fitting that, having devoted his life to the best interests of
Masonry, his last moments should be spent within the portals of a
Masonic Lodge. For Brother Glidden was stricken while at the altar of
Freemasonry, facing the East. A most glorious ending to a life consecrated to the high ideals of humanity and of unselfish service.
It is .true that in the life of this Mason there were interests that
to him were infinitely more important than the material things of life,
for, very dear to him were his dear wife and five sons. Upon each of
these boys he had the honor of raising to the sublime degree of Master
Mason, as well as were all movements, objects, and enterprises of educational, cultural and spiritual value. This is shown by his association
with church, fraternal and civic affairs.
He was born in the State of Maine in the year 1856, and while still
a young man adopted California as his home, where the diversity and
variety of the positions he was called upon to fill during his life, indicated at once that he had not only a well developed mind, but a facility
for adaptability that always distinguished him.
Brother Glidden had a keen sense of justice and the right thing to
do, and of that which our fraternity and every member of it, demands
from each individual that enters into its 'makeup, "the very best that is in
one."
Masonically, Brother Glidden filled many offices within the gift of
the brethren of his Lodge, and I know he deeply appreciated the high
honor conferred upon him by our Grand Master in his appointment as
Grand Bible Bearer. He was a Past Master of Sisson Lodge No. 310,
a member of Mount Shasta Commandery, Sacramento Consistory of the
Scottish Rite, and a P ast Patron of the Order of the Eastern Star.
Throughout the years of his association with our fraternity he was
most loyal, fervently devoted to its work, always manifesting a keen,
appreciative understanding of the ideals of our institution, and active
in contributing to their practical application by his personality and service.

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFORNlA

697

Such a life brings no . painful regrets as we approach the end of
our journey here on earth.
Brother Glidden was faithful in the discharge of life's affairs, and
therefore his inspired soul looked with trustful confidence to the Great
Father of us all, "who doeth all things well."
Death, my brethren, is not a descent, but a never ending ascent,
opening up the vast portals of the Celestial City, that building of God,
. "that house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens."
"In Ii fes' great harvest growing,,
The reaping and the sowing,
Mankind are ever going
Home to rest."

j

I
698

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In Memoriam William C. Hassler
By CHARLES M. Wm.LENBERG
A long and distinguished career was closed when 'William Charles
Hassler died on August 1, after a very short illness.
For thirty years he had been in the public eye as an official of the
Health Department of San' Francisco and as a Mason.
·
Born in Chicago in 1868, he r~moved with his parents to Stockton
in this State at the age of five ye~rs. Graduat~d from the common
schools o_f that city, he went, with his father, a contracting carpenter,
to San Diego, where he helped him build the flume bringing water to that
community.
. Later he went :o New York and entered Columbia University, graduah~g as a pharmacist. Returning to San Francisco, he entered the drug
?usmess, at the same time attending Cooper College (now Stanford Medical School), graduating in 1892.
Married to Carrie Curries in 1896, he left his wife in 1898 to seek
his fortune in the newly discovered gold fields of Alaska and accompanied the Grider Expedition as physician.
'
He returned with a fortune in health and experiences but poorer in
pocket, and again entered into the practice of medicine, first in Stockton
and later in San Francisco.
In 1900 he entered the San Francisco Health Department as Sanitary Inspector and shortly thereafter the bubonic plague first made its
~ppearance. In the fight to control this disease, as well as the recurrence
m 1906-07, he was the chief aid of the Public Health Service and of
Surgeon General Blue.
In 1915 he became the Health Officer of San Francisco, and since
that date his city has made great strides in its health and preventive
activities.
During the World War, when influenza threatened to halt our
i~d~stries, h_e took a .decisive ~te~ when he closed all public places, proh.1b1ted _pub~1c g~thenng~ .and ms1sted on the wearing of masks, a practice which m spite of nd1cule, spread to practically every large city and
undoubtedly shortened the period of the epidemic.
For years he held the foremost place on this coast in the control
of communicable diseases, in infant, maternal and child welfare in mental
hygiene and bringing health knowledge to the people.
'
He was chosen from all the health officers of the United States to
represent this country at the Health Conference of the nations of the
world at London and Geneva in 1926, and at the time of his death was
President-elect of the American Public Health Association.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

699

His Masonry was active and sincere, and he received high honors
from his brethren.
A member of California Lodge No. 1, he was its Master in 1910,
High Priest of California Chapter No. 5, R. A. M.; Illustrious Master
of California Council No. 2, R. & S. M.; Commander of California Commandery No. 1, and Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery,
Knights Templar of the State of California; and finally last year, the
Grand Orator of Grand Lodge of California.
A story . is told of a traveler passing on a road who saw three men
squaring stone, all engaged in exactly the same operation. He stopped
and asked the first man what he was doing and received the reply, squaring stone. The same query to the second man brought forth the answer
"earning $6 a day." The third man on being asked, replied, "I am building
a cathedral."
Dr. Hassler is gone, and we voice our grief for and our appreciation of the man he was, a sincere citizen, a faithful official, a loyal friend.
Nothing was so pressing with him as his sense of devotion to duty.
He gave to the state, city and fraternity invaluable service.
He has gone out of our lives in the full energy of a wonderful'
executive, of a great official, a devoted and loving husband.
More than his memory remains, however, in the work he did in
preventing disease, prolonging life and making his fellow citizens healthier a?d happier.
His city is memorializing his name through the institution he was
building in the hills back of Redwood City where, on 300 acres, institutions were to be created, giving opportunity for restoration to health
of tuberculars, of the convalescent and aenemic child, a preventorium for
children, and convalescent care for mothers after leaving the hospital.
This, in future, will be known as the Hassler Health Home.
In the city itself, the old Buena Vista School, the outdoor school
which Dr. Hassler created some years ago for crippled children, is to
be replaced by a modern building and known as the Hassler School.
William Charles Hassler indeed builded a cathedral.

(

700

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In Memoriam William Kettner
By CLAUDE H. MORRISON
Sorrow does not last for a friend who has gone. We are proud of
his attainments, we admire the sterling qualities of his character, and
resolve to emulate the worthwhile efforts of his life, but grief for his
passing does not endure. We would not have this different. Only by
facing calmly the fact of death, are we able to prepare ourselves for the
final summons that must come to us all. When the one who has left us
is not only a friend but one who has achieved distinction in public life
as well as in Masonry, it is fitting and proper that we should pause to
pay tribute to his memory and renew our devotion to those principles
which he lived and loved.
William Kettner w.as born in Ann Arbor, Michigan, on November
20, 1864 and died in San Diego, California, on November 11, 1930. His
parents were John F . and Fredericka R. (Lang) Kettner. While he was
still young his parents moved to Galena, Illinois, and then to St. Paul,
Minnesota, and he received his limited education in the public schools of
those cities, leaving at the age of thirteen to earn his own living. When
he was twenty-one he had saved seven hundred dollars with which he
came to California and invested in a mining venture in Julian, near San
Diego. This was not successful, and after he had lost all his money he
went to San Diego, where he took a job driving the horse cars for the
street railway. Prospects were not bright in San Diego in those days,
and in 1888 he went to Santa Ana, engaging in the hotel business until
1892, when he went to Visalia and became the business· manager of the
Visalia Delta and also superintendent of an insurance agency. While
in Visalia he served as a member of the City Council. On August 4,
1905, in Oakland, California, he was married to Marion C. Morgan,
who survives him. In 1907 he and Mrs. Kettner moved to San Diego,
where he engaged in the insurance business, which he built up soon to
be a very successful undertaking. He identified himself with various
civic organizations in San Diego, being particularly active in the Cham. ber of Commerce, with which he worked at all times for the upbuilding
of his community.
He was not active in politics until 1912, when he was asked by
friends in both parties to seek the Democratic nomination for representative in Congress from the Eleventh district. Although that district
was overwhelmingly Republican he was elected for four successive terms.
During his service in Congress he worked unceasingly for the interests of
his district and his State, and many projects of material benefit to the
Pacific coast were due largely to his efforts. During his service also the
World War was started and finished, and his record shows that he was
at all times a loyal supporter of the government and of the administra-

I
I

\

GHAND LOUGE OF CALIFORNIA

701

tion on which fell the responsibility for carrying on the war. He retired
from Congress in 1921 because he could not afford longer to sacrifice his
personal interests, and spent the remainder of his life in rebuilding his
insurance business and working for the community which he loved.
Brother Kettner was raised a Master Mason in Visalia Lodge No.
128 in 1894, and served as Master in 1898. In 1899 he was appointed
as Inspector in the district, then known as the 33rd district, in California. In 1900 he served this Grand Lodge as Grand Pursuivant, was
Junior Grand Deacon in 1901, Grand Marshal in 1902 and 1907, Grand
Standard Bearer in 1908, and Grand Marshal again from 1909 to 1915
inclusive, twelve years of service.
He became a Royal Arch Mason in Visalia Chapter No. 44 in 1896
and a Knight Templar in Visalia Commandery No. 26. in the same year.
He served his Chapter and his Commandery respectively as High Priest
and Eminent Commander. Later he became active in the Grand Chapter
of California and in the Grand Commandery. In 1916-17 he served as
Grand Captain of the Host in the Grand Chapter and Grand Standard
Bearer in the Grand Commandery. At the end of the year he asked to
be relieved from further duties in both grand bodies, stating that his
Congressional duties would keep him in Washington for the duration
of the war and prevent him from performing his Masonic duties. Both
grand bodies, at their meetings in 1917, adopted resolutions of regret
in accepting his resignation but expressing pride in his determination to
consider his service to his country as paramount to all other duties.
Brother Kettner received the Scottish Rite degrees in the Oakland
Bodies, Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, in 1898. Almost immediately
thereafter he demitted from the Lodge of Perfection to become a charter ·
member and the first Venerable Master of Visalia Lodge of Perfection.
He was made a Knight Commander of the Court of Honor in 1901 and
was coroneted an Inspector General .H onorary of the thirty-third degree
in 1909, after he had dimitted to the San Diego Bodies.
Upon his removal to San Diego he dimitted to San Diego Lodge
No .. 35, and affiliated also with the San Diego Chapter No. 61 and San
Diego Corttmandery No. 25. He became a member of San Diego Council
No. 23, Royal and Select Masters at the time it was organized in 19.1-0.
He was a charter member of Al Bahr Temple of the Shrine, having
been originally a member of Islam Temple of San Francisco. He joined
San Diego Pyramid No. 32 of the Sciots in 1923. He was a Past Patron
of Southern Star Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star. In 1927 he joined
with a number of brethren in San Diego and vicinity to form San Diego
Conclave, Red Cross of Constantine, and was an officer and regular attendant at the meetings of that order until the time of his death. During
his residence in San Diego it was his pleasure twice to head executive

702

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

committees for the meetings of the Grand Chapter, Grand Council and
Grand Commandery in San Diego.
Thus reads the record of the life of William Kettner. But mere ·
words of biography are futile. They do not reveal his personality, nor
express the feeling of friendship which he felt for his fellowmen. His
friendly smile, his cordial handclasp and the radiant charm that wa5 ever
in him endeared him to his countless friends. Friendship seems to be
the keynote of the book which he wrote after he had retired from Congress. It is largely a history of his efforts to assist his community and
district, a record of material achievements. But it is permeated with the
spirit of friendship-friendship for those whom he served, for those with
whom he served, for all with whom he came in contact, and that friendship was not one-sided. He printed many letters from his friends from
all walks of life. A former president of the United States, Cabinet members, senators and representatives, leading business men in his district
and in the nation, ranking officers in the army, navy and marine corps
and Past Grand Masters of this Grand Lodge, are represented. Most
of them express appreciation for personal or public service, but few of
the letters are complete without some allusion to the friendship between
the writers and Brother Kettner.
If Masonry means service, he was a good Mason. But his service
carried with it the feeling and expression of friendship and love for
those whom he served. In his love for his fellowmen, translated into
faithful service, William Kettner ably represented a practical ideal of our
institution.
Benediction......................................................................................Grand Chaplain
Memorial Song-Taps..............................................................................Custance
Sung by Louis A. A. Emmel, accompanied by Grand Organist.
Trumpet obbligato by Bert A. Dering.

At S o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 10 o'clock
Thursday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

703

Jin "ratth Jjjohgr
Morning Session
Thursday, October 15, 1931.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o 'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M:.w:.Grand L odge of California :
Your committee charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
jurisdiction to the pla ce o f meeting of the Grand Lodge and return,
and of reporting such cost of transportation as the sum <iue to the
officers or representatives in a ttendance from each Lodge, as well as
grand officers, Past Grand Masters, chairmen and members of standing committees and Inspector s, for their necessary expenditures to
and from Grand Lodge, report that t hey have carefully discharged
the duty and submit the following sta tement:
Gra nd Lodge officers ........................................$ 728.72
Past Grand Masters ..........................................
288.84
Committees ........................................................
689.06
Inspectors ............................................................ 2,270.10
Represen tatives .................................................. 16,242.21
T otal.. ........:...................................................$20,218.93
J NO. H. McGEHEE,
W. W . McKEE,

F. E. SNEDICOR,
BEN G. WRIGHT,
Jos. BLocx, ·

Committee.

A dopted.

PRO!.:EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE O,F CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES

with which it is charged is of ample importance to justify the continuance of said committee with a membership of five in order that a
complete and exhaustive report may be rendered at the next communication of Grand Lodge, and so recommends.

704

Masonic History
To the M.'.W.'.Gra11d Lodge of California:
Were an irresistible conqueror, animated by a malignant desire
to destroy beyond rehabilitation the unity and spirit of a conquered
race, he would probably begin with the destruction of every vestige
of its history.
From time immemorial marauding and victorious armies have
sought to lay in ruins the libraries and other depositories in which
nations and people assemble the surviving evidence of the traditions,
the struggles and achievements, the habits, faiths and laws, the arts
and cultures, and ideals which, linking them with the past, explain
and dignify and glorify their patriotism and inspire their pursuits of
destiny.
·

Man is the mysterious mirror of a past, leading down the misty
aisles of time to the very advent of Creation. He is history.
As reflected by its report, our Committee on Masonic History
has achieved mightily within the past year. The members of this
committee at grea~ sacrifice of time and energy and with high devotion
and understanding have rendered thus far a service, the value of
which will invite increasing admiration and appreciation with the passing of the years. The work thus so successfully begun should be
prosecuted diligently during the coming year. The committee has
systematized its work, has acquired the services of an exceptionally
satisfactory research worker, and obviously is operating with full
regard for economy in its expenditures.
·
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
Resolved, that the Committee on Masonic History be continued,
under an adequate appropriation and that its recommendations Numbers 1 to 6 be approved, subject to such modifications as may be
required by the financial conditions of .Grand Lodge.

Report adopted, except as to the recommendation for an
appropriation, which was referred to the Committee on
Finance.
Clandestine Masonry
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, having con~idered the report of the Special Committee on Clandestine Masonry,
concurs in the view of the members of said committee that the work

705

Adopted.
Owensmouth Lodge
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the petition of Owensmouth Lodge No. 611 to have its
name changed to Canoga Lodge, bearing the same number. The town
of Owensmouth having changed its name to Canoga Park, and no
objection to the petition of Owensmouth Lodge having been presented, your committee offers the following resolution and moves its
adoption:
Resolved, that the name of Owensmouth Lodge No. 611 be and
the same is hereby changed to Canoga Lodge, with no change in
number.

Adopted.
Proposed Amendments
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes, some forty-two resolutions and proposed changes to the
Constitution by Past Master C. E. Mallachowitz, of Caledonia Lodge
No. 486, Bakersfield.
Unquestionably Past Master Mallachowitz has devo!ed much
time and thought to the proposed changes included in his proposals,
and probably many of them contain merit. Nevertheless, the shortness of time precludes the possibility of your committee giving the
necessary attention to them at this session.
We, therefore, recommend that all the proposals of Past Master
Mallachowitz be referred to the incoming Grand Master for due
consideration.

Adopted.
Proposed Lim.it on Number of Degrees
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes that section of the report of the committee on Grand Lecturer's report, wherein it is proposed to change the number of degrees
that can be conferred in any one evening, to three firsts, three seconds,
or one third degree.
Your committee is fully conscious of the recommendation of the
Grand Lecturer and realizes that his recommendation comes from a

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

careful study of the conferring of degrees. Nevertheless, we feel that
the changing of the present law should come through education rather
than legislation at the present time.
Your committee therefore recommends that no change be made
in the present law.

annual amount heretofore realized by the twenty-cent tax. In the
opinion of your committee the sum thus required should be precisely
ascertained by the Finance Committee and Grand Lodge should at
this communication levy a sufficient per capita tax to produce it.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Rcsol·iJcd, that no commitment to the George Washington National
Masonic Memorial Association be made in excess of our present
pledge of one dollar per capita, and further that provision be made at
this time to discharge in full during the coming Masonic year the
balance due under said pledge, based upon one dollar per capita for
the membership of Lodges as shown by the annual returns of August,
1931.

706

Adopted.
George Washington Memorial
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
that section of the M.'. W.'. Grand Master's address dealing with the
George Washington National Masonic Memorial at Alexandria Virginia, and particularly his recommendation· that this Grand Lodge
continue its contributions to the George Washington National Masonic
Memorial Association to meet the terms of the so-called New York
plan, which plan provides for "bringing subscriptions up to $1.70 per
capita, contingent upon those jurisdictions which have not filled their
original quota of one dollar per capita doing their share."
After consultation with the members of other committees and
according with its own convictions, based upon the financial situation
and requirements of this Grand Lodge, your committee must recommend against a present commitment to the so-called New York plan.
At its annual communication in 1927, Grand Lodge approved a
report of its Finance Committee, following the recommendation of
Grand Master Jones, and we quote,
"It also appears that California has so far paid approximately
twenty per cent of its assessment, and as the entire amount should
be P<?-id not later than January 1, 1932, it would mean there still
remaa~s about four years to raise the remaining eighty per cent. Your
committee .therefore recommends that the per capita tax on the
Lodges be increased twenty cents per member yearly for the coming
four years," etc.
The foregoing clearly provided for the acceptance by Grand
Lodge of a commitment of one dollar per capita, although the membership of no particular year was specified. It can of course be argued
that Grand Lodge had in mind the membership of the year in which it
•legislated. As a matter of fact, however, Grand Lodge has annually
levied its . special per capita tax and remitted the proceeds thereof on
the basis of membership shown by the returns of Lodges reflecting
our growth from year to year. This is clearly shown by figures supplied to the committee by the Grand Secretary's office.
The report of the Grand Secretary shows a present Lodge membership of 142,422, which on a per capita basis of one dollar would
require a payment considerably in excess of the total amount thus
far paid to the Memorial Association, but considerably Jess than the

707

The report and resolution were adopted, and the matter
of an appropriation or tax levy was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Grand Secretary
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the recommendation of the M .'. W.'. Grand Master that this Grand
Lodge provide for the attendance of our Grand Secretary, Brother
\Vh icher, at the conference of Grand Secretaries, to be held in Washington in May, 1932. We are proud of the preeminence of Brother
Whicher in the craft throughout the various jurisdictions of the nation
and feei that substantial benefit, particularly along interjurisdictional
lines. will be derived by this Grand Lodge from his attendance at this
sessi~n. We concur most heartily in the recommendation of the
Grand Master.

Recommendation adopted, and referred to the Committee on Finance.
Forms for Annual Returns
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the recommendation of the Grand Master as to the passage of the
following resolution:
Resolved, that the Grand Secretary be directed to add to the blank
forms for annual returns as provided for in the Constitution, section
80, an additional sheet or sheets for the inclusion of the summary of
the income and disbursements of each Lodge.
We concur in this recommendation.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

709

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

708

Masonic Education
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has read with
interest that portion of the message of the M:. W: . Grand Master
relating to Masonic Education. This is a subject on which this Grand
Lodge has tried many plans, the success of none of which has yet
been determined. We recommend that the matter of Masonic Education be left to the incoming Grand Master, and respectfully request
that he cause a survey to be made as to the results of the plans which
have been tried and as to the need or desirability of considering other
plans for adoption.

Adopted.
Expenditures for Social Purposes
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the recommendation of the following amendments by the Most Worshipful Grand Master:
1. That section 88 of the Constitution be amended by striking
out the last clause, to-wit: "Provided that a subordinate Lodge may
in its discretion appropriate from its funds any amount for the purchase of a Past Master's jewel for its retiring Master and for floral
pieces for a deceased brother."
2. Section 89 be amended bv striking out all after the word
"expend" and insert in lieu thereof:
·
"In each Masonic year 20 per cent of its annual receipts of dues
from its members as computed from the last previous annual report
to Grand Lodge and income from its life membership fund, for
refreshments and the promotion of fraternal feelings among the
brethren."
As the Grand Master has stated, much confusion has resulted
from the interpretations of these sections, and your committee feels
that he has arrived at a satisfactory solution of the difficulty.
We believe that under the proposed amendment, the Lodges will
have more latitude as to those expenditures which may be charged to
the social fund, and consequently fewer questions will arise for the
Grand Master to decide. Furthermore, the present method providing
for the inclusion of all income results in an unequality between Lodges.
The Lodge which has investments of its own or sub-leases its own
lodge room or other rooms in its building may compute its 20 per cent
on all" of its revenue, while other Lodges may not have investments or
other income, with a resulting handicap on these Lodges. Dues are
paid primarily for operating expenses and constitute a more stable
form of income for the ·Lodge than rentals, interest or fees which
may fluctuate from year to year. It seems just and wise that the total
amount of dues with the income from life membership fund (if the
Lodge has such a fund) should be the basis for computing the 20
per cent to be used for social purposes.

We therefore concur in the recommendation of the Grand Master
with the reference to the amendment of sections 88 and 89, and move
that they be adopted.

The report failed of adoption. Subsequent ly th~ actio.n
of Grand Lodge was reconsidered, and the Committee on
Jurisprudence was directed to submit amendments to sections 88 and 89 of the Constitution.
The Committee on Jurisprudence thereafter reported,
submitting an amendment t o section 88 as directed, the last
clause thereof to read as follow s:
"Provided that a subordinate L odge may in its discretion appropriate from its' funds any amount for the purchase of a testimonial for
its retiring Master and for floral pieces for an ill or deceased brother
or his family."

The report of the Committee on Jurisprudence was
adopted, and section 88 of the Constitution was amended
as recommended by a five-sixths vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence also presented a report
as to section 89 of the Constitution, recommending that it
be amended to read as follows :
"Sec. 89. Excepting, however, that the Lodge may expend 20
per cent of its total revenue for purposes of refreshments and. the ~ro­
motion of fraternal intercourse. This fund m'ay be cumulative smce
January 1, 1920, in· the -d iscretio n of the Lodge."

The report of the · Committee on Jurisprudence was
adopted and section 89 was amended as recommended by a
five-sixths vote.
Foreign Grand Lodges
. · Germany : This Grand L odge has received from the Symbolic
Grand Lodge of Germany a request for fraternal recognition. This is
a new body formed on July 25, 1930 by eight -Masonic Lodges.
Prior to the receipt of the request for recognition this Gra nd
Lodge received a protest against such recognition made by the six
German Grand Lodges now recognized by and in fra ternal relations
with this Grand Lodge. The protestants claim the m embers of the
Supreme Councils of the Scottish Rite of the Netherlands and of
Switzerland organized a Supreme Council in Germany and that the
new Supreme Council took upon itself to organize eight new German
Lodges, which were not recognized by the German Grand Lodge and

710

711

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR:!:'IA

which combined themselves to form the Symbolic Grand L odge of
Germany. The German Grand Lodges "solemnly object to and decidedly reject these un-German organizations. Their Masonic recognition
is excluded, not only for the present but also for the future. Their
utterances, their actions, their ways have nothing to do with the old
German Freemasonry. .According to Masonic law and Masonic usage,
the establishing and recognition of new Lodges in Germany rests in
the National Grand Lodge of all German Freemasons and the undersigned eight Grand Lodges."
.Much. trouble. has been brought upon the craft in Germany by
the mtrus1on of this newly formed Symbolic Grand Lodge of Germany
and from the best information at our command we believe that its
formation was fomented and aided by organizations outside of Germany. From the showing made we incline to the views held by the
Grand Lodges in Germany with which we are in amity and we are
of the opinion that the request for recognition should not be granted.

Orient. No appointment was made to the offices of Grand Master and
Deputy Grand Master, which were kept vacant in the hope that they
would be filled in time by the persons who were the occupants of such
offices in the dissolved Grand Orient at the time of its dissolution.
A Second Deputy Grand Master was appointed to exercise temporarily the executive functions. It being impractical and unlawful to
form such an organization in Italy, the same was formed outside of
Italy and its headquarters were fixed in London-the intention being
to move to R ome as soon as conditions will permit. It is this reconstructed Grand Orient that has asked for our recognition.
If otherwise unobjectionable, this new Grand O r ient of Italy
could not be recognized by us because its location in London is an
invasion of the well established and well understood laws relating to
the jurisdiction of Grand Lodges. Th~ United Grand Lodge of England with which we are in fraternal accord, has expressed considerable, surprise at the temporary settlement of the Grand Orient of Italy
in London and has protested against the action of the Grand Orient,
holding that such action is contrary to all regular Masonic usage and
practice as understood by the United Grand Lodge of England.

Italy: An application for recognition has been received from the
Grand Orient of Italy, formerly seated at the Guistiniani Palace in
Rome and now temporarily seated in London, England.
We have not been in fraternal relations with the Grand Orient of
Italy for many years, except that in October, 1917, while our country
was an ally of the Kingdom of Italy in the Great War, permission
was granted to our members to visit Lodges of the Grand Orient and
t? fraternize with its members. Consideration was also given at that
time to the matter of the recognition of the Grand Orient on condition
that it ceased to invade the territorial jurisdiction of Arr:erican Grand
Lodges; but no conclusion was reached on the subject. This condition
was not met and since the war we have had no fraternal relations with
the Grand Orient.
After the advent of the Mussolini government in Italy the Grand
Orient and its subordinate Lodges was dissolved and ceased to exist
in Italian territory. This compulsory measure was not extended to a
number of Lodges of the Grand Orient working abroad out of reach
of the rules of the Fascisti regime. Such Lodges are continuing to
carry on their activities, although the power to which they owed
obedience has been dissolved.
In ?rder to per~etuate if possible the Grand Orient of Italy and
to p~ov1de a go~e~nmg power for the still existing Lodges situated
outside the domm1ons of the Kingdom of Italy, certain members of
the defunct Grand Orient held an assembly and organized a new
Grand Orient of Italy and declared th e same to be a continuation of
the old organization of the Guistiniani Palace and adopted for its
government the constitution, rules and by-laws of the defunct Grand

Adopted.
Roumania: This Grand Lodge has received requests fo r recognition from the "National Grand Lodge of Roumania" and also from
the "Grand Orient of Rouman ia." Because of our limited knowledge
of these two Grand Lodges and the m erits of their respective applications for recognition we are unable to make any recommendation
at this time.
It appears that the Grand Orient of Roumania is recognized by
many jurisdictions throughout the world, some of which are in amity
and concord with this Grand Lodge, and other s which are regarded
by this Grand Lodge as irregular. The Grand Orient has nineteen
Lodges and nine hundred thirty members and is probably the leading
Masonic power in Roumania.
We are informed that the National Grand Lodge of Roumania
has b een recognized by the United Grand Lodge of England and
that it claims to be the representative of craft Masonry in its jurisdiction. Efforts have been made to compromise the differences which
exist between these two bodies and to realize in some form a · unification of tqe legitimate and regular Masonic powers of that jurisdiction.
The recognitions from other Grand Lodges that each has obtained
may have operated to remove to a greater or less extent the blemish
of original irregularity suffered by both bodies.
There was a third body in Roumania known as the "Symbolic
Grand Lodge of Roumania," which probably was the child, or the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

713

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

712
succe~sor!

of the "Grand Lodge of Hungary of Budapest." This
. orga.mzation was pro~uctive of much dissension in Masonry in Roumama. We are now informed that it has gone out of existence and
that. such parts of that body as survive have been absorbed by the
~at1onal Grand Lod~~ o! Roumania. We hope that sufficient progress
m. the matter of conc1hation and the adoption of truly Masonic policies
will mark th~ conduct of these bodies during the coming year so that
favo:abl_e act10n may be taken by ·this Grand Lodge at its next commumcat10n.

Adopted.
Brazil: In 1923 this Grand Lodge accorded recognition to the
Grand Orient of Brazil, because at that time it appeared to us from
the information at our comman.d that the Grand Orient of Brazil was
a powerf~I body, exercisi~g control over all the State Grand Lodges,
and that 1~ :was so firmly mtrenched in its jurisdiction that there was
~o proba?1hty that any other Masonic power would be able to dispute
its sway m Brazil. The Grand Orient secured the recognition of some
of. the Amer.ican Grand Lodges and secured the coveted honor of
bemg recognized by the United Grand Lodge of England.
In 1923, so far as we knew, there were no Grand Lodges in Brazil
that.were not under the control of the Grand Orient, except the clandestine body known as "The Grand Orient of Rio Grande do Sul"·
but a great change in the Masonic conditions in that republic ha~
occurred during the past eight years. At the annual communication
of 193? 7our committee reported that it had received requests for
re.cogmt10~ of five G:and Lo~ges in Brazil and indicated its sympathy
with the Justness of the claims of these bodies for recognition. In
order to ac~ord such recognition it would be appropriate, if not necessar!, to w1thd:aw the recognition heretofore granted to the Grand
Or~ent of Brazil; because these five bodies are not a part of the Grand
Orient and probably are not recognized by it. The new Grand Lodges
abandoned the Grand Orient "to follow the regular trail of Masonry
and base .the.ir constitution and work upon the ancient land marks,
the constitution of Anderson and the symbolism of Mackay." It is
represented to us th~t each of these Grand Lodges is absolutely independent and sovereign and works only with the symbolic de
Th
. h
f
grees.
er.e are e1g t o these State Grand Lodges in the Republic of
Brazil and we have requests for recognition of the following six:
The Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes.
The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paula.
The Grand Lodge of Bahia.
The Grand Lodge of Para.

Last year your committee was of the opinion that five of these
Grand Lodges above named would be entitled to recognition in due
ti~e but that they should be allowed to demonstrate their stability
and the.allegiance of their membership to the policy and organizations
newly adopted. We have now received additional information from
sources which we believe to be authentic and reliable and think that
the time has come when we can safely and justly recognize tltese
bodies. Such recognition will be helpful to them in the development
of ancient Craft Masonry in Brazil.
Your committee therefore respectfully recommends:
First, That the recognition heretofore accorded to the Grand Orient
of Brazil be withdrawn.
Second, That this Grand Lodge afford recognition to:
The Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes.
The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paula.
The Grand Lodge of Bahia.
The Grand Lodge of Para.

Adopted; recognition of the Grand Orient of Brazil
withdrawn, and recognition accorded to the six Grand
Lodges above named.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific, Mexico: For several years your committee has had under consideration the request for recognition made,
and renewed from time to time, by the "Grand Lodge of the Pacific"
(Gran Logia del Pacifico) . In the report of your committee made in
1930 it was stated that the chairman of your committee would visit
Mexico and make a personal examination of some of the matters
which were not clear to your committee.
The chairman made a trip to Mexico for the pa.rticular purpose
of examining into the merits -o f the application for recognition of the
Grand Lodge of the Pacific and visited several of the cities whereat
are located subordinate Lodges of that Grand Lodge. He had the
privilege of inspecting several Lodge rooms and of meeting officers
and members of a majority of the Lodges. He also conferred with
the Grand Master Octavio A. Serrano, Past Grand Master R. H.
Fernando F. Dworak and other officers of the Grand Lodge. His
impression was most favorable. He found those Masons with whom
he · came in contact to be mostly men of prominence and standing in
their respective communities and his inquiries and observations
induced him to believe that they were good Masons and that they
were loyal to the tenets of our profession and were doing a splendid
work in their jurisdiction. At Nogales, Hermosillo, Mazatlan, Los

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

715

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

714

Mochis, Navojoa, Culiacan and Ciudad Obregon he found Americans
who had been raised in the United States and had cast their lot with
the Masons of the Grand Lodge of the Pacific and without exception
the expressions of these Masons were commendatory of the work and
the spirit of their Mexican brethren and their Lodges. There is a
strong American spirit on the west coast of Mexico and the influence
of the American Masons there is evident.
The Grand Lodge of the Pacific confines its authority to the
states of Sonora and Sinaloa and the central district of Lower California. It exercises its right and authority over the three degrees of
symbolic Masonry only. It requires of its initiates a belief in God
and the immortality of the soul and displays the Great Light upon
its altars. In 1923 the Grand Master Dworak represented to this
Grand Lodge that the then newly created Grand Lodge of the Pacific
had no treaty or other connection with the Supreme Council of
Mexico, nor any other Masonic body, but that it was sovereign and
absolutely independent. The application for recognition has been
before us from that time until this and the same representations have
been repeatedly made to us.
We find that the Grand Lodge of the Pacific has fourteen Lodges
with more than fourteen hundred members and that all of . the Lodges
in its territory are of its obedience except a Lodge at Cananea, which
is subordinate of the York Grand Lodge of Mexico. Recognition of
the Grand Lodge of the Pacific has been deferred until this time
because the York Grand Lodge of Mexico, with which · we are in
amity and concord, claims exclusive jurisdiction throughout the
Republic of Mexico and we were not disposed to take any action that
might be objectionable to that Grand Lodge. It appeared to your
committee that the only reason for denying the application for recognition would be an objection from the York Grand Lodge and that
otherwise the Grand Lodge of the Pacific was justly entitled to our
fraternal regard and recognition. With this in mind, we asked the
Grand Master of the York Grand Lodge to give us a frank statement
of his disposition in this matter, assuring him of our desire to work
in full harmony and accord with the York Grand Lodge of Mexico
and its members. We have now had a reply to our inquiry, made by
the Grand Master through Brother M. A. Loeby, Chairman of the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the York Grand Lodge, in which
we are advised that it cannot and will not embarrass or hurt York
Grand Lodge for the Grand Lodge of California to enter into fraternal
relationship with the Grand Lodge of ·the Pacific.
Your committee respectfully recommends that fraternal recognition be accorded to the Grand Lodge of the Pacific.

a

Adopted, and fraternal recognition accorded.

Various: Your committee has under consideration the requests
for recognition of the following Grand Lod.ges :
The Grand Lodge of Paraguay
·The Grand Lodge of Venezuela
The Grand Lodge of Amazons and Acre
The Grand Lodge of Vera Cruz
The Grand Lodge of N uevo Leon
Grand Lodge Vallee de Mexico
.
Grand Lodge Occidental of Guadalajara, Mexico, and
Grand Lodge of Cuscatlan of San Salvador.
.
we are unable at this time to make a definite recommend~~10n
with respect to the requests of any of these b.odies f~r r ecogmt10n.
This is due in most part to a lack of information, which your committee is seeking to supply.

Adopted.
Sponsors for Applicants for Affiliation
your Committee on P olicy and General Purposes, to whom w~s
.
" ,,
ge 23 of the Grand Master s
referred recommendation e, on pa
.
report, after carefully considering the same, report that the change m
form is one essentially necessary.
.
The form of application for degrees (Sec. 246) should provide
.
·red by section 98 of the
for the signature by the app I 1cant as requ1
Constitution.
Discussion in the committee determined that many Lodges ha~e
expressed difficulty over courtesy recom~endations ~~ members ma ~
t the request of Master Masons presenting the petitions. 1:he mem
~ers of a Lodge when voting on a petition, rely to a mat erial extent
on the recomm~ndors. It is naturally felt that the bro:hers recommending the petitioner know more about his qualifications t han an
investigating committee can often find out.
..
.
In the form recommended by the Grand Master, th~ petition w1~l
show approximately how Jong the members recommending the applicant have personally known him. The Master and members ~an th.en
act accordingly and the recommendation will be in. conformity w1t.h
the injuncti-0n in the candidate' s lecture of t he third d~gree.
is
impossible often to remember just the date of fir~t ~eeting a friend,
therefore your committee recommends the substitution of the wor~
"
· t I
" in place of " ................day of........................,
approx1ma e Y····················
b ·
so that each recommendor's statement will read, "I am a mem er 1~
the above named Lodge. I have personally known the ab?ve applicant approximately ......................... From my knowledge of him I have

!t

716

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

strong reasons to believe that if elected he will reflect honor on our
ancient Institution . . ."

"Unless said member has heretofore paid such contribution upon a
former application, either for the degrees or affiliation to. a Lodge in
this jurisdiction."
·

Report adopted, approved by the Committee on Jurisprudence, and after Grand Lodge had voted to add the word
"years" after " approximately . ." section 246 was declared
amended by unanimous vote._
Sponsors for Applicants for Degrees
For the reasons set forth in the report on recommendation " e"
of the Committee on Policy and Purposes, we approve of the change
suggested by the Grand Master in recommendation "b." Even though
he. be a Master Mason, personal acquaintance should be required. We
again substitute the words "approximately........................," in place of
the words " ..c••••••••••••• day ·of............................," for the reasons already
stated in the report on recommendation "e."
The statement would therefore read as follows :
"I am a member in the above named Lodge. I have personally
known the above applicant approximately................................. From my
knowledge of him I have strong reasons to believe that if elected he
will reflect honor on our ancient Institution . . ."

Report adopted and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which committee recommended the proposed
amendment. By vote of Grand Lodge the word "years"
was added after "approximately . . . ", and section 247 of
the Constitution was amended by unanimous vote.
Home Fees by Prior Members
In the opinion of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes in r ecommendation "j," the Grand Master gives the true interpretation intended as to the payment of the $25.00 fee by a non-resident
Mason upon affiliating with a Lodge within the jurisdiction of California.
We urge Master Masons residing in California to affiliate with
the local Lodge. Should business, or other circumstances require a
change . of residence outside of the State for an appreciable length of
time, it is natural that the member may desire to transfer his Lodge
membership. Later he may be fortunate enough to again return to
California and desire to again affiliate with a California Lodge. He
has once paid the $25.00 fee because of non-residence. We feel that
a double payment should not be required. One payment of the fee
is sufficient.
We therefore approve of the recommendation that section 41,
subdivision 1, of the Constitution be amended by adding the words,

717

Adopted and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which committee recommended the proposed addition
and section 41, subdivision 1, was accordingly amended by
unanimous vote.
Names of Investigating Committees
The Grand Master in his critical and painstaking examination and
analysis of the affairs of the Craft has discovered, and, in his repo!;"t,
presents a condition which in the judgment of your committee
demands correction.
It has to ?o with the appointment of investigating committees.
It appears that, in many instances, the Master does not in fact appoint
the investigating committees, does not receive or read t he reports of
such committees and knows nothing of the investigation of t he applicant for degrees until reported to him by the Secretary on the night .
of the balloting.
The Grand Master further calls attention to the fact that, in that
the blanks are sent by the Secretary, it is but natural that they should
be returned to that officer.
The Grand Master's report adds this comment: "Inasmuch as
the Master has no right or authority to make known t he names o f
this committee to anyone except to the Secretary, and to him only in
order that he may do an inconsequential secretarial duty, I recommend that section 100 of the Constitution be amended by striking out
the last three words of the section.
Your committee concurs with the Grand Matser's recommendation in so far as policy and practice are concerned, but respectfully .
suggests that, rather than the last three, the last seven words should
be stricken out. The section as it is now written provides that the
names of the committee shall not be made known except to the Master
and the Secretar)". If the suggestion of your committee is approved,
the section will read:
"The names of the committee shall not be made known."
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
Resolved, that section 100 of the Constitution be amended by
striking out the last seven words of the section.

Report adopted and referred to t he Committee on Jurisprudence.

pnocEEDINGS OF THE

718

The Jurisprudence Committee having approved the re.
100 is amended by unanimous vote, the last
port, sec t 10n
.
··
sentence of the section to read as follows.
d
f th members of the committee shall not be ma e
"The names o
e
h M t r"
·
·
known. The report must be returned to t e as e .
Dues, When Payable
the Uniform Code of By-laws of
Section 1 of article 9 • of
b
f the Lodge
'
.b that the dues of each mem er o
Lodges. now prescn es
.
,,
h 11 be "payable quarterly 111 advance.
s a
h the indefiniteness of the language
The Gr.and _M~st~r finds t ~~n has led to confusion (particularly
and uncertainty m its mterpre~at r .bTt of candidates), which conas to the right to vote a~d t _c e 1~1 bl ~:and dissension. He believes
fusion has resulted _in ac.nmomous ~r:nt that no harm can result and
and, to your comm1.ttee it seems atph d b~ fixing specific dates when
that much good will be accomp is e
payments shall be made.
ection 1 of article 9, of the
He, therefore, recomme~d~ t~;!s sbe ame~ded by adding to the
Uniform Code _of Bhy-Law~ o"onothe first day of January, April, July
end of the section t e wor s,
b

"

and ~:~~ ::mmittee is in agreement w'.th the recommendation and
respectfully offers the following resolution:
.
C d
f
.
1 f article 9 of the Umform o e o
Resolved, that section . o h.
th
ords "on the first day of
By-laws be amended by addmg t e~~to e w
'
January, April, July and October.
.
.

Report adopted and referred to the Committee on J unsprudence.
.
. _
The report of the committee is approved by the Jun~
.
and the By-Laws amended by unamprudence Committee
mous vote.
Forms for Annual Returns
f h"
,
d tion "r " under decision 29 o is
The Grand Masters recommen a
• .
report is incorporated in the following resolution:
bl k
f

R:t°:v::~~~~~:~uer~r::da~~~~~~;{s~:e~i~:c!~!e~~ ~!~ ~~e \~:1u~~n

orms o
b s who are 5ix months or more IQ arrears m
of thi: number off dmem :~owing the period of delinquency of each
the payment o
ues,
·
member.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

719

Our limited knowledge of the conditions which prompted the
above resolution makes a definite conclusion with respect to its
merits, difficult.
We can only apprehend that his purpose was to stimulate the
Secretaries to greater activity in the matter 1of collection of arrearages. In our judgment, that result might be accomplished for a short
time, but for a short time only.
. The lax Secretary will be ever lax, no matter how powerful the
stimulant. The Master and the Lodge have control of the situation,
and in so far as we can see, the final result of the adoption of the
resolution recommended would be to impose additional burdens upon
the Secretaries, the Grand Secretary's office and the volume of his
records.
We do not feel that the results attained. will justify the effort
and regret that we can not support the recommendation . .

Report failed of adoption, and recommendations of the
Grand Master (Decision 29) were approved.
Selection o : Trial Commission by Lot
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the proposal of F . L . Holmes, N . G. Matthews, and
A. A. Lund, all Past Masters of Lassen Lodge No. 149, to amend
sections 1940, 196 and 200 of the Constitution to provide for the
selection of trial commissioners by lot instead of by ballot.
Your committee does not feel that this method would insure a
greater degree of justice than that afforded by the present system. It
would leave to chance entirely the selection of the commissioners and
deprive the members of the Lodge from expressing their wishes on
this very important matter. We do not believe this proposed legislation to be desirable and recommend that it be not adopted.

The report was adopted.
To Eliminate Extraneous Sections
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the recommendation of the M:. W:. Grand Master lettered "f" and relating to the elimination from the Constitution those
fo.r ms which are not made mandatory, or in other words, those which
are not referred to specifically in other sections of the Constitution.
We agree with the Grand Master that only ·Constitutional matter
should be included in the · Constitution and all extraneous matter
deleted. He has, however, recommended that certain forms not mandatory be eliminated, but certain forms which are now Constitutional
we feel are not properly part of the Constitution, and should be elimi-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

720

nated also. To study the subject properly and make definite recommendation requires more time than is at the disposal of this committee
at this communication of Grand Lodge.
We therefore present the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that Grand Lodge approve as to policy, recommendation
"£" of the Grand Master's Message, but that the proposed changes
in the Constitution be referred to the incoming Grand Master and
Grand Secretary and reported upon at' the next annual communication.

Adopted.
Committee on Necrology
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to whom was
referred the resolution requiring the Secretary to report to Grand
Lodge with his annual report the names of brothers lost through death
during the year, favor this amendment. Masonry teaches a due observance of our deceased brothers, and it is entirely fitting that even
during the busy sessions of Grand Lodge a memorial service be held
for those who have passed beyond. The list of names of deceased
brothers furnished by each Secretary annually will make available to
the Necrology Committee information they should have. The importance of this work, in our opinion, requires that the Necrology
Committee be made a Constitutional committee.
Be it therefore resolved, that the Necrology Committee of Grand
Lodge be made a Constitutional committee and arrange for a fitting
memorial service at each communication of Grand Lodge under the
direction of the Grand Master.
·
Be it further resolved, that section 150 of the Constitution be
amended by adding there.to the following:
"7a: To transmit to the Grand Secretary with the annual return
the names, dates of initiation, passing and raising and the dates of
death of all permanent members of Grand Lodge as enumerated in
section 3 of the Constitution, and,".

Adopted and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which committee reported back with its approval, and
section 150 of the Constitution was accordingly added to
by a five-sixths vote; and on the recommendation of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, section 27 of the Constitution
was amended by a five-sixths vote by adding "on necrology,
to consist of three members."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

721

Meetings of Lodges at Masonic Home
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to whom was
referred the resolution providing for the holding of special meetings
of Lo~ges at the Masonic Home at Decoto, find that many Lodges
have m fact been holding such meetings there. Much pleasure has
been afforded the Masons at the Home through the consi1eration of
these Lodges. We cannot see any harm or ground for criticism in
this practice. We feel it should be commended.
. We therefore recommend t~e adoption of the following resolution:

. Be it resolved, that section 93 of the Constitution be amended by
addmg thereto: "Provided, however, a special meeting of a Lodge
for degree work only may be held in the Lodge Room at the Masonic
Home at Decoto."

Adopted and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which committee reported back recommending the
proposed amendment, and section 93 was accordingly
amended by a five-sixths vote.
Motion Pictures of Grand Masters
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes have given
due deliberation to the resolution offered by the Masters and Wardens
Association of Los Angeles, providing for a permanent recordation of
the personalities of our Grand Masters, by means of sound pictures.
It is our opinion that such a film would be of inestimable value
and b~nefit, not only from a historical point of view, but in making
accessible to all members of the craft a feeling of contact and
acquaintance with Grand Lodge.
The first provision of the resolution reads as follows:
"T.he ~dministration of each Grand Master advances the objects
and objectives of our great fraternity. Each Grand Master at considerable sacrifice, contributes in large measure to that advan~ement and
leaves the stamp and imprint of his own character and personality on
t~e .hearts and i~ .the minds of the craft throughout this great jurisdiction. Be as diligent and untiring as he may, he obviously cannot
contact al.I of our members; but science has provided a means of not
only n:akmg the Gran? Master available to all the craft, but of per- ·
petuatmg the personalities of our Grand Masters, thus rekindling in
the hearts of those who know them the affection and esteem we have
for ~hem and creating a like feeling on the part of men yet to ·be
admitted."

In conform.i ty therewith we offer the following resolution :

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

723

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

722

"Whereas, this Grand Lodge is not now employing a means of
perpetuating the personalities of our Grand Masters, and
"Whereas, science has provided a suitable and practical means;.
"Therefore be it resolved, that the incoming Grand Master appomt
a special com~ittee for the purpose of investigating t~e ex~ense of,
and to make arrangements for, securing a sound m:ot1~n p1ctur~ of
our Past Grand Masters, and the Grand Master: and this co_mm1t~ee
is hereby authorized to proceed in this matt~.r m collaboration with
the Finance Committee of this Grand Lodge.
We recommend the adoption of the resolution.

Referred to the Committee on Finance, which committee
reported as follows:

.

.

The Finance Committee concurred in the within resolution, with
the proviso that no money be spent without the further consent of the
Finance Committee.

Adopted.
Digest of Decisions
.
The able work of our Grand Master Ross in ed_iting the Digest
and Compilation of Approved Decisions and Regulat10ns has reduced
to useful form the rulings of Grand Lodge. As each ne~ problem
presents itself the value of the book increa~es to the_ active offi~ers
or member. It is impossible to fully appreciate ~he time . and ?amstaking effort that went into the arranging, checkmg an~ m~exmg of
this Digest. Time alone will fully impress the craft :with its value.
We desire to call attention to the testi!11onial placed m the front of
the book by G~and Secretary Whicher, in which we fully concur.
At this session of Grand Lodge amendments and decisions will
be made which must of necessity be recorded in this Digest to keep
it up to date.
.
Therefore, your committee respectfully recommends the adoption
of the following resolution:
Resolved that all amendments and decisions made at this 82nd
communicati~n of Grand Lodge be properly incorporated _in the
Digest and Compilation of Approved Decisions and Regulations of
the Grand Lodge of California.

Adopted.
Per Diem for Representatives
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to whom were
referred decision 21 and recommendation "l," of the Grand Master's
report, concur in the thought that the present plan of pay of members

is not satisfactory. The decision before the committee has shown
serious expenditures as to L odge funds appropriated for expenses of
officers and representatives to the communications of Grand Lodge,
not at all in keeping with the actual expenses incurred.
We feel that this does not create a healthy condition and should
be remedied and the entire system of pay of members be put on a
fair and sound basis.
After careful consideration and study, we desire to submit the
following plan:
That section 6 be amended by striking out in line 7 thereof, the
words "an unlimited" and inserting the word "a."
That section 57 be amended by inserting after the word " L odges"
in line 8 thereof the words "and in addition thereto a per diem of
$6.00 not exceeding five days."
·
That section 70 be amended to read as follows, to-wit :
"Each of the elective Grand Officers shall be entitled to receive
payment for the amount of his necessary expenses in attending the
Grand Lodge at any of its communications in the same manner and
in the same amount as provided in section 71."
That section 71 be amended by inserting after the word "Lodges"
in line 10 thereof the words "and in addition thereto a per diem of
$6.00 not exceeding five days."
That section 79 be amended by striking therefrom the last sentence therein.
That section 88 be amended by striking therefrom the last
sentence therein and substituting in lieu thereof the following:
" Provided, that a subordinate Lodge may in its discretion appropriate from its funds a sum for the purchase of a suitable testimonial
for its retiring Master, and for floral pieces for a deceased brother, and
provided further, that it may provide, in such manner as it may deem
proper, for the payment of the necessary expenses of its officers or
representative in attending the communications of the Grand Lodge."
This plan will require investigation and study. We believe it will
result in a saving to the sub o rdinate Lodges and Grand Lodge. We
therefore recommend that a committee of three be appointed to make
a study of this question and the plan here suggested, said committee
to report at the next communication of Grand L odge.

The report and recommendation were adopted.
Investment of Life Membership Fund
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is m accord
with the purpose of the Grand Master's recommendation "o," with

725

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

respect to the necessity for closely guarding the investment of life
membership funds. We therefore offer the following resolution and
move its adoption:
Resolved that section 129 of the Constitution be so amended as
to provide that moneys in life membership funds shall be avail~ble
only for deposit in reputable banks or for investn:ents legal for .~avmgs
banks under the· laws of California and the Territory of Hawau.

viding for the creation of an Advisory Finance Committee to be
named by succeeding Grand Masters. The duties of such committee
would be "to obtain information as to the financial problems of
Lodges and of Masonic temples, to study the same and to advise a
proper program to those Lodges . . . that in the opinion o~ the
committee may need advice."
While your committee believes, in theory, that such an advisory
committee could perform a· valuable service, we are disposed to the
opinion that in practice it would function feebly. We have at the
present time a Committee on the Financing of Building Projects,
provided for in the legislation of 1928. Its advice on temple and
other building projects is always available. The advice of the members of our able Finance Committee is likewise available, as well as
that of the "Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master and Grand
Wardens. In every community, and perhaps in every Lodge, are men
of sound and prudent views upon financial matters and with ample
experience therein, whose cooperatio n may be called for at any time.
In view of these circumstances we are moved to the conclusion that
the appoint ment of an Advisory Finance Committee is unnecessary
at the present time.

724

Recommendation adopted and referred to Committee on
Jurisprudence.
Safeguarding Life Membership Funds
During 1931 many organizations have learned .too late the fall~cy
of not setting aside a substantial reserve fund for times of depression.
Masonry has endured these many years because of its conservative
and constructive forethought.
Many members of the craft have seen fit to assure their Masonic
standing in their Lodge by taking out life memberships.
It must be admitted that only by careful investment and handling
will this life membership fund ·pay approximately annual returns sufficient to cover the dues of these life members to the Lodge. If the
sum paid by a member of said fund is withdra:W~ after ?is death, no
surplus remains and the income to the Lodge 1s msuffic1ent to cover
said dues.
In addition to the income feature s hould be considered the question of a reserve fund. Unfortunately some of our Lodges face
financial disaster at the present time because of no reserve to turn to.
Life membership funds and everything is tied up in a heavily encumbered building. The res toring of their life membership fund may
prove a serious problem. After careful consideration your Committee
on Policy and General Purposes are of the opinion that the Grand
Master's recommendation in the last part of recommendation " o"
shows wisdom, foresight and constructive business policy. We therefore recommend its adoption and that section 129 be amended by
striking from same the entire sentence beginning "Provided nevertheless."
Adopted and referred to the Committee ~n Jurispru-

dence, which committee recommended the proposed amendment, and section 129 of the Constitution was accordingly
amended by unanimous vote.
Advisory Finance Committee
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the M:. w:. Grand Master's recommendation "n," pro~

•

Adopted.
Physical Qualifications
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the Grand Master's recommendation " a,'' relating to physical disqualifications. In 1928 our law was changed by amendment of section
94 to provide that the physical sufficiency of a candidate "shall be left
to the sound discretion of the Lodge," the Master, before ordering a
ballot, to state the nature and extent of a candidate's disability in
case he is unable to "comply literally" with the physical requirements
of our degrees.
The Grand Master finds , and so reports, that under the 1928
amendment aforesaid, there has been "flagrant violation of the Constitution by Masters and Lodges," and that the discretion granted by
the present wording of section 94 has been exercised, not soundly but
unsoundly in many instances.
In the judgment of your committee the Grand Master's views,
based upon very painstaking observations of what has occurred,
deserve the support of Grand Lodge and we "therefore recommend
that section 94 be restored to its language and provisions as the same
existed preceding the 1928 amendment.
T he Committee on Jurisprudence, to which the Grand Master's
recommendation was also referred, has likewise considered the same

72i

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

at great length and will submit a majority and minority report. We
are advised that the majority report will oppose the Grand Master's
proposal.
We therefore recommend that consideration of the matter be
deferred until the Committee on Jurisprudence shall have reported,
when all viewpoints will be available to the members of Grand Lodge.

idea that it is the internal and not the external qualifications that make
a man a Mason has been continually kept in mind. In the 'Old days,
and according to the strict ritualism of the fraternity in its earliest
periods, a~ shown by the old Constitutions, a candidate must have
been "a perfect youth," "without blemish," "having his right limbs as
a man ought to have," and having "the full and proper use of his
limbs." But as was suggested by the Committee on Jurisprudence in
1864, page 363, insistence upon such a requirement would long ago
have "proved the death of the fraternity." In the same spirit we th ink
that an insistence upon "literal" conformity on the part of the candidate to the requirements of the several degrees, while it might not
spell the death of the fraternity, would undoubtedly spell the death
of the ambition to become a Mason on the part of many a deserving
son of the Republic whose presence in, and contribution to the fraternity would be of inestimable value. Under our former law and in
complete support of the literal conformity required, it was solemnly
decreed by thi.s Grand Lodge that a man having "a stiff knee" cannot
be made a Mason, "for reasons which we may not express in words
but which will occur at once to every brother." (Proceedings 1864,
p. 364.)
In his argument in support of his recommendation, the Grand
Master states that the word "substantially" has no force; a candidate
"either conforms or does not conform." That is, if there be no strict
and · literal conformity there is no conformity at all, and that our
Constitution as phrased at present is meaningless. We cannot believe
such to be the case, and we find ourselves unable to agree with the
suggestion made which would involve a return to the old practice
wherein it was held that ineligibility resulting from inability to conform comprehended, among ·o ther things, "the loss of the first finger
of the right hand" or the inability to walk "without the use of an
artificial foot." (Proceedings 1901, p. 311.)
We believe the answer to the problem presented is simple and
finds adequate statement and persuasive reasoning in the report of the
special com·mittee appointed by Grand Master Fischer in 1928. That
committee was composed of very able men and gave long and thorough study to the question now involved. The chairman of the committee was Brother Walter K. Tuller, and its membership included,
among others, Past Grand Master Hutaff and our experienced, widely
read and discerning Grand Secretary. The report was considered and
passed upon approvingly by the Committee on Policy and Purposes
and by the Jurisprudence Committee, and its action and proposals
were duly ratified by the Grand Lodge. (Proceedings 1928, pp. 39,
140, 262, 285.) That committee recommended that section 94 be
amended to read as it now is. We think neither time nor experience

726

Consideration of this report was deferred as recommended.
GEORGE F. RODDEN,
CLAUDE H. MORRJSON,

0. K. MORTON,
WM. A. SHERMAN,
WlLL H.· F1SCHER,
Committee.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
Physical Qualifications-Majority Report
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California.:
There has been referred to your Committee on Jurisprudence
decision 3, and recommendation "a," both having to do with the question of the physical qualifications of candidates for the degrees. The
Grand Master states that a misconception of the law "has led to the
admission of applicants physically insufficient." In the decision rendered he held that the fact for a Lodge to determine in each instance
is whether the ap,plicant is able to conform substantially to what the
several degrees respectively require of him, "without the aid 'Of an
artificially substituted hand or leg." In his recommendation "a," he
proposes to amend section 94 of the Constitution by excluding the
word "substantially" therefrom and striking out the last two sentences
therein. Section 94 would then read, in so far as physical qualifications are concerned, as follows:
"No Lodge shall receive an applii:ation for the degrees
of Masonry unless the applicant be a man * * · * having no
maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable
of learning the art and physically able to conform to what
the several degrees respectiv-ely require of him."
The question of physical qualifications-what may be required
and how conformity thereto may be .determined-has been before this
Grand Lodge on many previous occasions. The position of the Grand
Lodge as reflected by the approved reports of its Grand Masters and
Jurisprudence Committees has been a growingly progressive one. The

728

PROCEEDI~GS

OF THE

suffice to detract from the reasoning there indulged in or the legislation so proposed and enacted.
To conform to the requirements of the several degrees is to do
the things req4ired of the candidate by such degrees. To conform
substantially means to conform in all essential particulars. The spirit
and purpose accompanying such conforming constitute no inconsiderable part of the ceremony. If that conforming may be accomplished
by the aid of an artificial limb, accompanied by the appropriate intent
and purpose, is there not in the act such a conforming as to measure
up to all intended and reasonable requirements of our ritual and teachings? If absolute conformity be required, which is the only alternative
as to what we conceive to be substantial conformity, then we disregard substance and stick blindly to form. In our judgment the true
destiny of our Institution lies not along such a narrow and constricted
path.
Our laws require that a candidate for the degrees shall be able
both to read and write. I know of a Past Grand Master who could
never have been made a Mason if strict, literal conformity to that
requirement had been exacting. He could neither read nor write
without the aid of eye glasses. In the ·broad domain of Freemasonry,
seeking the best men everywhere to do the best and most for
humani'ty, what irreconcilable difference is there between an artificial
aid to seeing and an artificial aid to walking? If with the aid of either,
a candidate is able to measure up to all the requirements of what we
would like to find in a loyal, zealous, faithful member of this fraternity,
why should we exclude him?
Whether a candidate is able to conform substantially or otherwise
is a question of fact that has to be determined by somebody, and we
submit that it is best determined by those having intimate personal
knowledge of the conditions actually obtaining. The candidate is
required to state ovei: his own signature the nature of "any physical
deformity or defect" existing. (Constitution, section 246.) The examining committee is required to examine into any lack of physical
disqualification, and if it finds one sufficient to disqualify a candidate,
it shall so report specially, whereupon the Master shall direct the
application to be withdrawn. (Constitution, section 104.) And, no
adverse report having come from the examining committee, and an
impairment nevertheless existing, the Master shall state the "nature
and extent" of the same, and thereupon the Lodge in its "sound discretion" shall determine whether such impairment disqualifies or not.
(Constitution, section 94.) In addition, after all other conditions have
been met and passed, any member of the Lodge has it within his
power, as it is his bounden duty, by blackball, to relieve the fralernity
of any undesirable, unworthy, or disqualified applicant.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

729

The Lodge determines upon the physical fitness of the petitioner
just as it determines, and through all ages has determined, upon his
moral fitness. Some judgment must be left to somebody. All possible
contingencies cannot be guarded against by legislative inhibition. The
tact, if it be a fact, that here and there a mistake may be made, or an
excess of friendly zeal displayed, does not serve to warrant the fraternity in doing that which obviously would serve to keep out of our
ranks many a man whose presence and participation therein we need.
Some of us know men who have lost an arm or a leg (in the Argonne)
who would be of incalculably more benefit to this fraternity than the
finest specimen of a perfect Adonis has ever been our pleasure to
welcome. Masonry ever needs men "right" in the head and in the
heart. An artificial limb now and then can do us no harm.
We recommend that decision 3 be not approved and that recommendation "a" be not adopted.
BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,

J. D. MURPHY,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,

Of Committee.
Minority Report
The undersigned members of your Jurisprudence Committee,
believing that the majority of the committee has erred in overruling
the decision of the Grand Master, designated as decision 3, and dealing
with physical qualifications, present this minority report for your consideration.
The majority opinion deals not only with the decision of the
Grand Master referred to, but also argues the recommendation of the
Grand Master for new legislation.
Much of the argument of the majority opinion is devoted to a
discussion of the excellent qualities of some men whom they seem to
think ought to make goo.d Masons, rather than giving any logical
reasons why they are eligible under the present law.
The Grand Master decided that he had held "that the fact for the
Lodge to determine is whether or nci.t the applicant is physically able
to conform substantially to what the several degrees respectively
require of him without the aid of an artificially substituted hand
or leg."
·
This decision is based upon the law as it now reads ; not upon
what some . of us think it ought to be, and we must not confuse the
issues.
Section 94 of the Constitution provides that a man must "have no
maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable of learning

I

\
•

731

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GllAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the art, and physically able to conform substantially to what the
several degrees respectively require of him."
Can it be said that a man who has lost a hand or a leg is not
maimed, because forsooth he has been able to purchase a mechanical
substitute for the lost member? Does the fact that he owns the
mechanical substitute make it a part of his physical being?
If by artificial aid he becomes eligible, then by the mere removal
of the contrivance, he will render himself ineligible. Thus he can put
on or take off his eligibility as he would his wearing apparel.
It was not the intention of Grand Lodge in ·amending the Constitution in 1914 when the word "substantial" was substituted for the
word "literal" to work any such radical change in the matter · of
physical qualifications. No such construction has ever been placed
upon the word "substantial" until today, except by some who have
misconstrued the meaning, and made the decision of the Grand Master
necessary.
When the legislation was adopted in 1928 providing that the
matter should be left to the "sound discretion" of the Lodge, it made
no change in the law, but merely placed upon the Lodge the responsibility of exercising its sound discretion in determining the fact, and
did not vest in the Lodge the power to override the Constitution and
admit members who were known to be in fact ineligible. This has been
done, and if the decision of the Grand Master is reversed, we have no
reason to doubt that just as flagrant violations will occur in the future.
We are not unmindful of the fact that many good · men are
ineligible to become Masons by reason of the loss of some member
which renders them incapabie of performing the necessary ritualistic
ceremonies, but we also k.now that many other good men are barred
hy lack of permanent residence, and other reasons which Grand Lodge
has seen fit to impose.
But we are not now concerned with the question of the good
moral character or desirability of these men, but what does vitally
concern us is the question whether or not we are .g oing to misconstrue
our law so as to remove all necessity for the possession of physical
qualifications from our candidates, in utter disregard of the plain
mandate of the Constitution.
Prior to the adoption of the amendment of 1928, it was never
intended that the word "substantial" was susceptible of the construction now claimed for it. Certainly the change of the fact-finding body
has not in any manner affected the meaning of the word.
If it is desired to change the law within the limits of the Landmarks by which we are bound, and which we admit are paramount
even to our Constitution, that is a matter for future determination.

But so long as the law remains as it is, we should obey it, and not
endeavor to evade or nullify it by misconstruction.
In our opinion the decision of the Grand Master is in accordance
with our law, and should be sustained.
.
We therefore recommend that decision 3 of the Grand Master be
sustained.
DANA R. WELLER,

730

GEORGE L. ] ON ES,

Of the Committee.

Grand Lodge thereupon denied approval of the ·Committee on Policy and General Purposes, denied approval of
the majority report ·and approved the minority report of the
Committee on Jurisprudence.
[Section 94 was not amended in any respect, but the
construction of the section as decided by the Grand Master,
governs.]
Decisions of Grand Master
your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration
the decisions reported by the Grand Master and are of the opinion
that decisions Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27 and 28 are in strict accordance with our law and
should be approved.
We therefore recommend that said decisions be approved.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence also recommend the approvai
of the Grand Master's recommendation "q," and that section 251 of
the Constitution be amended by striking out the words "the direction
of the Lodge or Master" in the second line of page 233 of tpe 7th
editiori of the Constitution and inserting the words "Constitution,
section 189"; also by striking out the words "by direction of that
Lodge (or of the Master thereof)" as appear in the form following;
then add after the last paragraph of the form direction as follows :
"Should the charge be preferred by the Junior Warden under the
direction of the Master" the words "by direction of the Master
thereof" should be inserted in the foregoing paragraph after the
words "does hereby."
·

Adopted, and the last clause of section 25 1 was amended
accordingly by unanimous vote.

732

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

Pay of Inspectors
Your Committee on ] urisprudence has had under consideratii:>n
the decisions of the Grand Master and report thereon as follows:
In decision 21 the Grand Master decided that donation of Lodge
funds could not be made for the purpose of paying the expenses of
the Inspectors, Masters and Wardens and Secretaries in attendance
in Grand Lodge.
·
This decision apparently overfooked the provisions of section 79
of our Constitution, which authorizes the payment of the Master and
Wardens or representative, and should not be held to apply to those
officers.
But as to such payments for Inspectors or Secretaries, the decision is undoubtedly correct.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

733

following stated meeting proceed to take the action called for by
section 118, unless the Lodge then remits the dues or grants further
definite time for payment.
We are in accord with the conclusion of the Grand Master that a
Lodge cannot demand a promissory note from a member in consideration of the remission of dues and that a Lodge cannot loan money
to a member.
The acceptance by a Lodge of a promissory note of a member
for the remission of his dues· or for money advanced to a member in
need is improper, for Masonic relief should be direct and should in no
way be viewed or held as creating the status of debtor and creditor
between the member so assisted and the Lodge.

Adopted.

Adopted.
Foreign Language Lodges
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommend that regulation
No. 96, as appearing in the Digest, be hereby repealed, and offer the
following resolution:
Resolved, that the officers of a Lodge working in a foreign language under dispensation from this Grand Lodge shall be permitted
to confer a degree or degrees, in such foreign language, upon the
candidate of another Lodge and in such latter Lodge, when invited
to do so by such Lodge, provided the candidate speaks, reads and
understands such foreign language.

Adopted by unanimous vote.
Relief Should Be Direct
Your Committee on ] urisprudence, to whom was referred decision
29 of the Grand Master, report as follows:
We agree that it is wise and proper for the Secretary of a Lodge
to send statements to members whose quarterly dues have not been
paid, for it is apparent that such a practice would prove of great
assistance in the performance of his duty in the matter of the collection of dues.
It is clearly mandatory that the Secretary notify, in the manner
prescribed in section 117, all members who are delinquent for a period
of twelve months, and the duty of the Master in regard to such
members is as stated in the decision. If further time is granted by the
Lodge, theri the extension should be for a definite and reasonable
period, and if the dues are not then paid, the Master should at the

Status of Senior Warden on Death of Master
Your Committee on ] urisprudence, to whom was referred the
following decision of the Grand Master, has had the same under
consideration and respectfully report as follows:
"Decision No. 9: In the case where the Senior Warden had
succeeded to the office and duties of Master upon the death or disability of the Master of the Lodge, as provided in Constitution section
148 and interpreted by this Grand Lodge in 1894 (Proceedings, p. 765;
Digest, 113), I was asked if the Senior Warden automatically assumes
the title of Master? If so what happens to the office of Senior
Warden?
"My answer was that the Senior Warden, succeeding to the
powers and duties of Master, assumed that title. There is, however,
no vacancy in the office of Senior Warden. He not being able to .
physically fill the stations of Master and Senior Warden at one and
the same time, the station of Senior Warden must be filled by appointment for each meeting. Not having been elected as Master he will
not become a Past Master at the expiration of the term of the Master
whose powers and duties he had assumed.
"In construing sections 138 and 148 of the Constitution it is my
opinion that the office of Master becomes vacant by reason of the
death or resignation of the Master and that such vacancy can be
filled only by electi1;m. During the time of such vacancy the Senior
Warden (or in his absence the Junior Warden) succeeds to the powers
and duties of the Master and acts as Master pro tempore. There
would be no vacancy in the office of a Warden who was acting as
Master pro tempore, because his very right to act as such is based
upon the fact that he is such a Warden authorized by the Constitution
to exercise the functions of a Master in case of a vacancy, until the
election by the Lodge of a Master."

I
734

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

It is the opinion of your committee that the decision of the
Grand Master is the correct statement of the law and we, therefore,
recommend its approval by the Grand Lodge.

Adopted.
Right of Secretary to Furnish ·Information
Your Committee also had under consideration decision No. 15 by
the Grand Master and respectfully report as follows:
"Decision No. 15. I received the following communication from
the Secretary of Alhambra Lodge No. 322:
"We had a member by the name of.. ....................,......., who
d ied in 1923. He came in in 1920, and paid $6.00 for 1920.
He also paid $9.00 for dues for 1921. He did not pay his dues
for 1922, and prior to the ] uly meeting of 1923 he died in the
month of May, owing dues for 1922 and first half of the year
1923.
"Now his widow wants to join the Eastern Star, and the
Eastern Star wants a certificate from me to the effect that he
was in good standing at the time of his death. The question
comes up that in case she gets sick, or anything happens to
her, would the Lodge be responsible for the same, that is,
for doctors, nursing, funeral, etc.
"The Master requested me to write and ask you for a
decision."
It is apparent that in the second paragraph of the request of the
Secretary of Alhambra Lodge as t o whether the Lodge would be
responsible tp the widow in the event of the death of the husband in
good standing, has no bearing whatever upon the question as to
whether or not she is entitled to a certificate of her husband's standing.
That question is fully settled by the laws of this grand jurisdiction,
and such was the decision of the Grand Master.
The ques tion implied in the communication as to whether the
Secretary of the Lodge may communicate information contained in
the records of the Lodge to an officer of an Eastern Star Lodge, the
Grand Master reported as follows:
"Is a Secretary of a Lodge permitted to.give a certificate
to the Eastern Star t0- the effect that a member was in good
standing at the time of his death or at any other time? My
answer is that he is not."
It may be fairly assumed that the request for information by the
Eastern Star Lodge was at the instigation of the widow of the
deceased, and based upon that fact we are of the opinion, and w.e

GHAND LOUGE OF CALIFORNIA

735

assume ·that there can be no question, that had the widow herself
asked for the information it would have been the duty of the Secretary of Alhambra L odge to have given her a certificat e to that effect
in the form of section 234 of the Constitution.
Undoubtedly the decision of the Grand Master in this particular
case was correct, and we are of the opinion that the Secretary of a
Masonic Lodge would not be authorized to give information concerning the records of his Lodge to a stranger.

In view of the peculiar circumstances ot this case, we feel that
no harm could have been done to have advised the Secretary that an
application from an Eastern Star Chapter to the Secretary of the
Lodge of which the deceased husband was a member for such information, should be complied with.

Adopted.
Status of E:.A:. or F:.c:. After Suspension for Cause
Your Committee on Jurisprudence concur with the Grand Master
in his decision No. ·25, in answer to a question as to what proceedings
must be had to qualify an Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft to
advancement after suspension for cause, except that the first paragraph of the decision should, in our opinion, be modified to read as
foll ows:
"l. If the suspension was by a trial commission 'in his own
Lodge, his own Lodge may, after the record of suspension has been
reviewed and approved by Grand Lodge (1925, p. 635; Digest, 461)
restore him under the provisions of section 210 of the Constitution.
He would again be an Entered Apprentice or Fellow ·Craft of his
own Lodge. He may then be advanced by his Lodge or by another
Lodge on a waiver of jurisdiction by his own Lodge the same as if no
suspension had occurred."

The two other paragraphs of decision No. 25 have our unqualified
approval.

Adopted.
Time Within Which Appeal May Be Taken
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends the approval of
the resolution to amend section 207 of the Constitution to shorten the
time in which an appeal may be taken from the judgment of a Lodge
on the findings of a trial commission. The section now allows ninety
days in which to .g ive notice of appeal, the result being that transcripts
filed in the office of the Grand Secretary in July cannot be reviewed
until the following year-a period of fifteen months. We therefore
recommend that section 207 be amended by striking out the words

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

736

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

737

"withi~ ninety days after the announcement of the result of the trial"
and inserting the words "within thirty days after the announcement
of the result of the trial."

Report adopted, and section 207 was amended· as recommended by unanimous vote.
·
Investment of Life Membership Funds
Your Committee on J uris·prudence are in full accord with the
report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes in its recommendation to amend section 129 of the Constitution, and we recommend that the words "invested only in some reputable banks of
deposit, or in such bonds of the United States, State of California, or
some county, city and county, city or town thereof, or in such other
first-class stocks, bonds or securities as may be directed by the Lodge
and approved by the Master," to be eliminated from said section, and
the following substituted in lieu thereof:
"deposited in some reputable bank or invested in securities legal
for savings banks under the laws of the State ol California, or the
Territory of Hawaii."

Adopted, and section 129 accordingly amended by unanimous vote.
Petitions of Maricopa and Temblor Lodges
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommend that no action be
taken at this communication on the petitions of Maricopa Lodge
No. 434 arid Temblor Lodge No. 477 for exclusive and particular
territorial jurisdiction.

Adopted.
Various Acts of Grand Master
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has carefully examined the
record of special dispensations and approval of life membership resolutions by the Grand Master, and find them to be in accordance with
our law.
We therefore recommend that the action of the Grand Master in
this respect be approved.
F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
DANA R. WELLER,
BENJ. F. BLEDSOE,
JOHN D. MURPHEY,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
GEORGE L. JONES,

Adopted.

Committee.

GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL
R esolved, that a per capita tax of ten cents be and the same is
hereby levied upon the membership of this grand jurisdiction as a
contri.bution to the George Washington· National Memorial Association, the same to be payable with other Grand Lodge dues.
GEORGE L. JONES.

Referred to the Committee on Finance, and by vote of
Grand Lodge was ordered to be incorporated in the report
of that committee.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M.' .W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was submitted the following trial records, to-wit:
No. 624-Needles Lodge No. 326
No. 640-El Dorado Lodge No. 26.
No. 653-Sequoia Lodge No. 349.
No. 669-Service Lodge No. 594.
No. 671-Piedmont Lodge No. 521.
No. 674-Glendale Lodge No. 544.
No. 675-Evergreen Lodge No. 259.
No. 67~Unity Lodge No. 368.
No. 680-Sun Garden Lodge No. 536.
No . .681-Lincoln Lodge No. 470.
No. 682-Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389.
No. 68~Hollywood Lodge No. 355.
No. 689-Evergreen Lodge No. 259.
No. 690-Ione Lodge No. 80.
No. 691-Fidelity Lodge No. 120.
No. 692-Progressive Lodge No. 578.
No. 693-Progressive Lodge No. 578.
No. 694-Justice Lodge No. 549.
No. 69~Evergreen Lodge No. 259.
No. 697-Roosevelt Lodge No. 500.
No. 698-Tehama Lodge No. 3.
No. 699-Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422.
No. 701-Argonaut Lodge No. 461.
No. 702-Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595.
No. 703-Alamo Lodge No. 122.
No. 704-Atwater Lodge No. 622.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 706---San Pasqual Lodge No. 452.
No. 711-Coalinga Lodge No. 387.
No. 695-Temescal Lodge No. 314.
Respectfully reports that after careful examination it finds that in
each of such cases referred to the committee, there has been at least a
substantial compliance with the Constitution and Regulations; that in
those cases where the same were not strictly complied with, the errors
in no way prejudiced either the accuser or the accused. In none of these
cases was an appeal taken, many of them being under section 192 of the
Constitution, providing for automatic expulsion, unless a Masonic trial
be demanded within 60 days after notice in event of the conviction of
the accused of a felony in the criminal courts.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of the trial commissioners in each of the
cases hereinabove referred to, be, and the same is hereby approved, sustained and affirmed.

privileges of Masonry, be, and the same is hereby granted and petitioner
is hereby restored to such rights and privileges as a Mason at large.

738

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 683, begs leave to report as follows:
This cas·e was before us last year and was sent back to El Dorado
Lodge No. 26 for a new trial. As the charges were brought by the
Junior Warden by direction of the Master of El Dorado Lodge, upon
the case being sent back for a retrial, upon the request of the accused
for a change of venue, the case was retried in Hiram Lodge No. 43 ;
the accused was acquitted and the accuser appeals. No briefs were filed
on the appeal by either side; the parties seem to have had a fair trial
and your committee feels that under such circumstances, in the absence
of any glaring error, the judgment of the trial commissioners should be
sustained, especially when the verdict was unanimous.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of the trial commissioners in said case No.
683 in acquitting the accused be and the same is hereby sustained, approved and affirmed.
Your committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition
of N. A. B., formerly a member of San Bernardino Lodge No. 348, to
be restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry, offers the following
resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, that the petition of N. A. B., formerly a ·member of San
Bernardino Lodge No. 348 for restoration at large to all the rights and

739

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred the petition
for restoration of W. S. D., formerly a member of Los Angeles Lodge
No. 42, expelled by Grand Lodge in 1922, offer the following resolution
and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the petition for restoration of W. S. D., expelled in
1922, as more fully appears in trial record No. 322, be and the same is
hereby granted.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, tp which was referred the petition
for restoration of J. M. R., expelled from Golden West Lodge No. 455
in 1923, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the petition for restoration of ]. M. R., a Fellowcraft
expelled in 1923, as more fully appears in trial record N;o. 361, be and the
same is hereby granted.

Adopted.
your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the petition
of W. M. W., formerly a member of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, to. be
restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry, offer the following
resolution and move its adoption:
Resofoed that the petition of W. M. W., formerly a member of Las
Palmas Lod~e No. 366 for restoration at large, to all the rights and
privileges of Masonry, be, and the same hereby is granted and petitioner
is hereby restored to such rights and privileges as a Mason at large.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the petiti~
of E. C. W., formerly a member of Naval Lodge No. 87, to be restored
to the rights and privileges of Masonry, offer the following resolution
and move its adoption:
Resofoed, that the petition for restoration of E. C. W. be and the
same hereby is, denied without prejudice to its renewal at a later date.

Adopted.
Case No. 679, expelled by Long Beach Lodge No. 327. Your committee recommends that the action of the Lodge in expelling the accused be
affirmed.

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Case No. 705, on appeal by the accuser from a judgment of acquittal
by Monterey Lodge No. 217, we find that in view of the lack of morality
on the part of the accused, as shown by the undisputed evidence, we offer
the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, that the finding of the trial commission of not guilty be
and the same hereby is changed to guilty and that the accused be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry. ·

Trial record No. 707, being a member of Wasco Lodge No. 583,
tried by Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, and suspended. We offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, that rhe judgment of the trial commission in trial record
No. 707 be and the same is hereby reversed.

740

Adopted.
Trial record No. 687, from Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569. In
the minds of your committee the record shows this accused to be wholly
unworthy of being a Mason and we feel that penalty of suspension,
fixed by the Lodge, to be inadequate punishment. We, therefore, offer
the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, that the finding of guilt by the trial commission be and the
same hereby is affirmed, but that the penalty of suspension as fixed by
the trial commission be and the same hereby is changed to expulsion.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 672, on appeal by the accused from the judgment of
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297. In this case the accused was found guilty on
the first and third specifications and expelled. We recommend that the
finding of guilty on the first specification be reversed, and that as to the
third specification we recommend that the' case be retried in some Lodge
other than the original trial Lodge, and therefore offer the following
resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of the trial commission in finding the accused guilty be reversed and the matter remanded for a new trial before
such Lodge as the Grand Master may designate.

The report was adopted.
Trial record No. 710, from La Brea Lodge No. 650. A careful
examination of this record discloses that substantial justice was done
and we recommend that the judgment of the trial commission be affirmed.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 673, from Euclid Lodge N o. 519. We recommend
the adoption of the following resolution :
Resolved, that the action of the trial commission in finding the accused not guilty of the specification and of the charge of unniasonic conduct be and the same hereby is changed to a finding of guilty in each
instance and that the accused be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

Adopted.

741

Adopted.
Trial record No. 708, from Santa Monica Lodge No. 307. We offer
the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, that the finding of guilty by the trial commission in record
No. 708 be and the same is hereby sustained and affirmed, but that the
penalty of suspension be modified by fixing the same at expulsion.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 709, from Porterville Lodge N o. 303. In this case
the accused was found guilty and sentenced to reprimand and was appealed by the accuser. We offer the following resolution and move its
adoption :
Resolved, that the action of the trial commission of Porterville Lodge
No. 303 in finding accused guilty of the specifications be and the same is
hereby sustained and this Grand Lodge now finds accused guilty of the
charge, and that the penalty fixed by the commissioners be and the same
is hereby approved.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition
of S. H . R., formerly a member of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481, to be
restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry, begs leave to offer the
following resolution and moves its adoption:
R esolved, that the petition of S. H. R., formerly a member of Mt.
Davidson Lodge No. 481, for restoration at large to all the rights and
privileges of Masonry be, and the same is hereby granted and petitioner
is hereby restored to such rights and privileges as a Mason at large.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 684, in which the accused was acquitted by trial
commission of Lassen Lodge N o. 149 and appealed by the accuser, presents an anomolous situation. Either this charge did not state a Masonic
offense or the trial commission was in error when it found accused not
guilty on his admission that the charge was true.
Your committee is of the opinion that the specifications did state a
Masonic offense and that the admission by the accused rendered a not
guilty verdict an erroneous one. Your committee, therefore, offers the
following resolution and moves its ~doption:
)

r

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

742

.Resolved, that the action of the trial commission of Lassen. Lodge
No. 149, finding accused not guilty be reversed; that accused be found
guilty and that the sentence be fixed at suspension.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition
of A. R. A., formerly a member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355, to be
restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry, begs leave to offer the
follo~ing resolution and moves its adoption :
Resolved, that the petition of A. R. A., formerly a member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355, for restoration at large to all the rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby granted and petitioner is
hereby restored to such rights and privileges as a Mason at large.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 700, in which F. N., a member of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625,
was expelled under July 8, 1931, begs leave to report as follows:
This is a proceeding under section 192A of the Constitution. Accused
was charged in the District Court of the United States of the District
of Arizona in two counts; one, for the unlawful possession of intoxicating liquors; two, unlawful and felonious transportation of intoxicating
liquors.
He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to the United States Penitentiary at McNeil Island for two and one-half years. A certified copy of
the final judgment of conviction was filed with the Lodge and thereupon
a notice was sent to the accused. This notice omitted to state that the
written election should be filed with the Secretary of such Lodge within
said period of sixty days. It further omitted to state that the crime of
which he was convicted, was a felony. The record also shows that the
Master neglected, at the next stated meeting, after such sixty days from
the mailing of such notice had elapsed, to announce to the Lodge the
fact that such certified copy had been filed, that the required notice
given and that accused stood expelled from all the rights and privileges
of Masonry.
For all of these errors the case must be reversed and returned to
the Lodge for a new proceeding in accordance with the constitutional
provisions applicable.
Your Committee on Grievances, therefore, offers the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625 in attempting to expel F. N. be and the same is hereby reversed and the
proceedings are r emanded to the Lodge for further action.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

743

Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred case No. 712,
wherein charges of unmasonic conduct were preferred against A. I. L., a
member of West Gate Lodge No. 335, begs leave to report as follows:
We are at a loss to understand the reason why the trial commission ·
acquitted the accused. No competent evidence was presented sufficient
to contradict the record of conviction and your committee feels that the
trial commission was not justified in acquitting accused.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption.
Resolved, that the action of the trial commission in case No. 712,
finding accused not guilty be and the same is hereby reversed, that he be
adjudged guilty and that the accused be expelled from all the rights
and privileges o f Masonry.
.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 678, from Highland Park Lodge No. 382, begs leave to report as
follows :
The charge in this case is that the accused, in his petition for the
degrees, fraudulently represented that he had not been previously rejected by a Masonic Lodge. To this charge the accused plead guilty and
the trial commission fixed the penalty at reprimand.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
R esolved, that the finding of guilty by the trial commission be affirmed, but that the penalty be, and the same hereby is, fixed at suspension.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 677, from Highland Park Lodge No. 382, begs leave to report as
follows:
This is a companion case to No. 678, just reported. The charge
is that the accused, a member of Highland Park Lodge signed, as recommendor, the petition of E. M. G. for the degrees of Masonry, knowing
that the petition falsely represented that said E. M. G. had not been
previously rejected by a Masonic Lodge. The accused plead guilty and the
penalty was fixed at reprimand.
We believe the penalty to be inadequate. In some ways it should
be regarded as more serious on the part of a Mason to join in such a ·
false representation than for one not a Mason to make such a representation in his petition. At all events, he is at least as culpable and
should be punished in a corresponding manner.

744

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the finding of guilt of the trial commission be affirmed, but that the penalty be, and the same hereby is, fixed . at suspension.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 685, being a member of Golden State Lodge No.
358, tried by Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, found guilty and sentenced to
reprimand and appealed by the accuser. The evidence in this case is in
a most unsatisfactory condition; the record is filled with hearsay, inuendo
and suspicion. If the accused was guilty of the charge a reprimand is
not suitable punishment; if he is not guilty then he should be acquitted.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the judgment of the trial commission be reversed and
the matter remanded for a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to . which was referred trial record
No. 638, a member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360, who was tried
and expelled by that Lodge, and from the judgment an appeal by the
accused was presented, begs leave to report that we have given very careful consideration to the transcript in this case, which consisted of some
three hundred and eighty-four pages. Many technical points as to the
sufficiency of the evidence are raised in the able brief of the counsel for
the accused, but stripped of all technicalities the evidence is sufficient to
warrant the trial commissioners in finding the accused guilty, and we,
therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, that the action of the trial commissioners in case No. 688,
in finding the accused guilty and sentencing him to expulsion, be and
the same is hereby sustained, approved and affirmed.

w ALTER F. HAAS,
FRANK B. BELCHER,
WILLIAM A. SITTON,

Committee.

The report and resolution were adopted, Committeeman
Berry not participating.

745

REPORTS OF Fii'lANCE COMMlTTEE
Reimbursements of Boards of Relief and Constituted Lodges

To the M .'. W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
1. Your Committee on Finance has received and examined the report
of the Board of Control referring to reimbursements of Boards of Relief
and 'constituted Lodges and concur in its recommendations, that the
Boards -of Relief and Lodges be reimbursed as follows:
·
San Francisco ...............................................:............$1,982.85
Los Angeles ..........................................:.................~ ... 1;352.07
Oakland-Berkeley ...................................................... 2,135.65
Sacramento .......,.......................................................... 405.28
4.10
San Jose ......................................,...............................
Fresno .....................,.....,.........,....................................
53.00
Alameda ............................,..,......................................
15.00·
Santa Monica ............................................................
35.00
Bell Lodge No. 483.....................................................· 25.00
Marin Lodge No. -191.........................................,...... 288.77
Rising Light Lodge No. 397.................................. 125.UO
Stockton Lodge No. 498..........................................
65.00
Total......................................................................$6,486.72
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
R esolved, that the sum of $6,486.72 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds 0£ this Grand Lodge to reimburse Boards of Relief and
Subordinate Lodges in the amounts as above set out.

Adopted.
Masonic Employment Service
2. Your committee, on the recommendation of the Board of Control, offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, that the sum of $9,200.00 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided into the following
donations:
To the Employment Service of San Francisco..................$2,400.00
To the Employment Service of Los Angeles .................... 2,400.00
To the Employment Service of Long Beach...................... 1,800.00
To the Employment Service of San Diego........................ 1,400.00
To the Employment Service of Oakland-Berkeley .......... l,2~.00
Total......................................................................:...............$9,200.00

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

746

747

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic Homes
3. Your committee has given very thorough consideration to the
report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes and again must commend
the Trustees for the completeness of the report and for the care given
to our Homes by the Trustees as displayed thereby.
We recommend to all a thorough reading of this report. It will bring
a better knowledge of the Homes and the splendid work they are doing
as well as the problems connected therewith and incident thereto.
The many problems incident to the Homes are left in the hands of
the Trustees, knowing each will receive thorough consideration. The
financial problems presented in the report are the only ones given consideration by this committee.
The report shows an indebtedness of the Homes of $320,000-all
chargeable to the building program entered upon prior to 1929. The
amount is all due to the Endowment Fund of the Homes but as these
funds are being accumulated for a definite purpose, they must not be
permanently used for other purposes, and therefore, the above amount
should be returned when it can be done without unduly burdening the
Lodges of the jurisdiction.
For the fund to provide the amount borrowed it was found necessary
to secure $100,000 from the bank. The interest, therefore, on this sum
is being lost to the Homes.
The report also shows a payment-and the final-for buildings and
improvements of $80,000.00, and that if it had not been for this expenditure the Homes would have operated on the income received for the year
and have had a surplus of $20,000.00.
At the close of the fiscal year the Grand Lodge had-outside of its
investment in this building, which is fjxed and cannot be used for any
other purposesSecurities ................................................................$220,000.00
Cash .......................................................................... S8,000.00
Cash-Emergency Relief...................................... 18,000.00
Or a total of... .........................................................$296,000.00
which represents the surplus built up by prudence in years gone by. This
always has been regarded as a surplus for emergency purposes. We believe the emergency has now risen for the use of a part of this sum.
We also believe the $100,000.00 secured from the bank should be paid,
that the income therefrom may again accrue to the Homes.
As the final payment on additions and improvements has now been
made, and as if it had not been for such expenditure the Homes would
have operated last year with a surplus of $20,000.00, and as we believe
the Trustees will this year effect further economies and, therefore, should

be able to apply $2S,OOO.OO toward this debt ; your committee, therefore,
recommends the appropriation of $7S,OOO.OO out of the surplus funds of
this Grand Lodge which, coupled with the · $2S,000.00 which it would
seem the funds of the Homes will permit and which sum we recommend
should be immediately taken out of the funds on hand and the $100,000.00
sec.ured · from the bank settled. A proper resolution putting into effect
this appropriation will be presented at the conclusion of this report.
Your committee has also given long and serious thought to methods
of raising funds to liquidate the balance of the $320,000.00 debt of the
Homes. While we are desirous of seeing the Endowment Fund restored
at an early date, yet we are more desirous of not placing any additional
burden at this time on the constituent Lodges.
By close figuring the Club Houses at Berkeley and Los Angeles can
be maintained for the succeeding year on a lOc per capita levy. To the
credit of the Trustees of these Clubs, let it be said that they are willing
to do that close figuring. As the tax for this purpose last year was lSc,
the constituent Lodges are being saved from this source Sc per member.
By eliminating any appropriation for the George Washington National Memorial, we are saving a further tax of 20c, or a total saving
from these two sources of 2Sc per member. We believe this additional
fax can well be added to the amount contributed to the Hoines. Therefore, in the resolution providing for the levying of our annual assessment,
we are adding this amount to that previously assessed for the maintenance
of the Homes, thereby retaining the per capita levy at the same amount
that it was last year.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $7S,OOO.OO be appropriated out of the
otherwise unexpended funds of this Grand Lodge to be paid to the
Trustees of the Homes for the purpose of returning the funds secured
from the bank.
We further offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolve&, that the sum of SOc per paying member be levied upon
the membership for the maintenance of the Masonic Homes of California.

Adopted, except as to the paragraph relating to the
George Washington National Memorial, for which a resolution had been adopted providing for a ten-cents per capita
tax for the coming year.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic History
4. Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the report of the Committee on Masonic History and its request for an appropriation of
$3,000.00 during the coming year.
After considerable discussion with the Committee on Masonic History and the assurance from Brother Leon 0. Whitsell of that committee
that they would entirely complete their work during the coming year,
and your committee feeling that it would be ill advised to discontinue the
work at present, have decided to recommend the appropriation. We,
therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $3,000.00 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the use of the Committee on
Masonic History during the coming year.

The increase of the assets of Grand Lodge during the fiscal year just
closed was $26,081.36. More than one-half of the increase was occasioned
by the fact that the Los Angeles Board of Relief repaid to the Grand
Lodge $15,200.00, which had been advanced as a loan in the purchase of
graves.

748

Adopted.
Masonic Clubs of the University of California at Berkeley and
Los Angeles
5. Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the report of the .
Trustees of the M<!,sonic Club of the University of California, located
at Berkeley, and the report of the Directors of the Masonic Club of the
University of California at Los Angeles, and their request for funds for
their maintenance during the fiscal year of 1932-1933.
Your committee has carefully reviewed the expenditures during the
last year and the estimates for the coming year, and have requested the
Trustees to expend in maintenance the various sums which they have
heretofore set up as depreciation, thereby cutting down to some extent
the amount that would be required to be raised for the fiscal year beginning August 1, 1932.
We are of the opinion that a tax of lOc per paying member will be
sufficient, with the balances they have on hand, to properly care for their
expenses. We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
. Resolved, that tbe sum of 10 cents per paying member be levied
upon the membership for the maintenance of the Masonic Clubs at
Berkele.>: and Los Angeles for the fiscal year 1932-1933.

Adopted.
Audit of Accounts
6. Your committee employed Ruckstell & Land, certified public
accountants, to examine the.books and records of the Grand Secretary
and Grand Treasurer, as well as those of the Masonic Homes of California and Endowment Fund. These accountants have certified that all
books and accounts are correct. This audit certifies that the net worth
of the property of the Grand Lodge July 31, 1931, was $809,460.63, which
included Masonic Temple Association stock in the amount of $588,800.00.

749

Adopted.
Traveling Expenses of Grand Master
7. At the 1930 session of the Grand Lodge the traveling expenses
of the Grand Master was fixed at $5,000.00. We are of the opinion that
the same amount should be appropriated during the coming year. We,
therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that a sum not to exceed $5,000.00 be, and the same is,
hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray the
traveling expenses of the Grand Master.

.Adopted.
Portrait of Grand Master
8. Your Committee on Finance recommends that the retiring Grand
Ma~ter, Brother John Stewart Ross, have his portrait painted, present

a bill to the Grand Secretary, who is authorized to pay the same, and
that when the portrait has been painted, it be part of the gallery of Past
Grand Masters.

Adopted.
Transfer of Emergency Relief Fund
9. · For a number of years there has been carried on the books of
the Grand Lodge an account known as "Emergency Relief Fund." This
fund on July 31, 1931, consisted of cash in bank of $13,979.83, and Liberty
loan bonds of $4,000.00, making a total of $17,979.83. Your committee
finds no reason why this fund should continue to be carried and recommends that it be closed out and the amount transferred to the General
Fund. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, that the account known as "Emergency Relief Fund" and
consisting of $17,979.83, be closed and the bank deposit and Liberty
bonds composing said fund be turned over to the General Fund of the
Grand Lodge.

Adopted.
Pay of Members and Per Diem
10. Referring to that portion of the Grand Master's address dealing
with the pay of members in attendance on Grand Lodge and his recommendation that the present method be changed to include a per diem:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

750

The present payroll for traveling expenses is made up on the basis
of an "unlimited" fare, which in cases of those whose residence is 250
miles or more distant from the meeting place of Grand Lodge, results
in payment of amounts ranging from $15.00 to $40.00 more than the
amount actually expended in such travel.
Your committee finds that the number who actually draw travel pay
is approximately 640, but that those who reside in the vicinity of the
meeting place of Grand Lodge are not now on the payroll, and they
estimate this number at about 160, which would make a total to draw
per diem, unless favoritism is to be shown, of approximately 800.
The payroll, as now made up, consists of representatives of Lodges,
Inspectors, members of all standing committees, officers of Grand Lodge
and Past Grand Masters. At the present session, the total disbursement
for pay of members will be approximately $20,000.00, and your committee, after giving effect to the saving which would be made by paying
only actual traveling expenses to representatives, estimate that the payroll
would be increased by not less than $12,000.00-or making a total payroll
of $32,000.00.
Your ·Committee on Finance is thoroughly in sympathy with the
Grand Master in his effort to discourage the subordinate Lodges in
making excessive appropriations for the expenses of Masters and Wardens who attend the annual communications. However, they are not
convinced that the change to a per diem basis would cause the Lodges
to discontinue the unnecessary expenditure of their funds.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, that the consideration of the subject of the pay of members and per diem be postponed until the next annual communication.

Adopted.
George Washington Memorial
11. In the proceedings of 1927, on page 597, you may read the
report of the Finance Committee wherein was adopted the resolution
provided for the levying of 20 cents per member for four years ; the
actual wording of the recommendation was as follows:
"Your committee, therefore, recommends that the per capita
tax of the Lodges be increased 20 cents per member yearly for
the corning four years, and that when the amounts are paid into
the Grand Secretary, that he be authorized to remit yearly the
amount collected to the proper authorities of the Memorial
Association."
The payments as propo!ed in the above recommendation have been
promptly met and the financial obligation of this Grand Lodge to the
George Vvashington National Memorial Association has been fulfilled.

GRAND LODGE 01'' CALIFORNIA

751
The Grand Lodge has actuall
"d h
office $125 133. in addition t th' Y pa1 t rough the Grand Secretary's
.
'
'
o is amount $13 000 has b
"d b . .
v1dual Masons, making a total of $1
'
. een pa1
Y md1include $25 000 . d f
38,133, and this amount does not
'
raise rom other sources in California.
We find that the Memorial h
t
further funds must be obtain d f as no as yet been completed, and that
.
e rom some source Ho e
C
m1ttee on Finance finding th
d f
·
w ver, your om'
· e nee s o our own Grand L d
·
)arly for the support
of ou M
. H
o ge, partlcur asomc omes very urgent
'th
h
reduced income, and not desiring to increa 'h
. ' w1 ~ muc
recommends that no appropriation be mad:~ a\ ~~~r t~~~'.ta tax this year,
d ·
However, in view of th
Past Grand Master Jones th\ a dtlon. of the resolution presented by
I . d
a a onat10n of ten cents per membe be
ev1e ' we offer the following resolution and recommend its adoptio: .
. Resolved, that the sum of ten cents be added to the tax
.
with the annual returns August 1 1932
. levy, payable
the jurisdiction.
'
' upon the paymg members of

Adopted.
Committee on Masonic Education
12. your Committee on Finance ha h d
.
. E s ~ under consideration the
report of the Committee 0 M
n
asomc ducahon and it
f
s request or an
appropriation of $5,000.00.
After many conferences 'th ffi
as well as reading the repor;~f :h~~r~ an! brethren of . Gran~ Lodge,
grand jurisdictions, we feel that n d fi . as een ~c~omphshed m other
H
o e mte appropnat10n should be made
owever, your committee recomme d th
h .
.
Master make a thorough survey on the ~u~ . at t e mc~ming Grand
and that after he has decided what would Ject of Masonic _Education,
d
be for the best interest of
the craft, that he be authorized
lines as he may think best and
th:~~:w~fed to. proceed along such
he may deem necessary be expended t h' d ' ~,500.00, or so much as
'
a is 1rection
~e, therefore, offer the following resolution . and
.
recommend its
ad opt10n :

th:;

Resolved, that the sum of $2 SOO OO b
.
of the Grand Lodg t b
'
·
e appropriated from the funds
e
o
e
expended
for
Masonic
Education h
to be expended under the direction of the G d M
' t e same
ran
aster.

A dopted.

Purchase of Masonic Temple Stock
13. Your committee ha
·d d
No. 229, F . & A. M., that thse ~;:~dezod the request of Solano Lodge
in Masonic Temple Association of Califor!~a~urchase SO shares of stock

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

752

We find that this stock was originally purchased from the Associ.ation and that the Lodge is now in need of funds to take care of its
obligations. We, therefore, recommend the purchase of said stock.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :

R esolved, that this Grand Lodge purchase from S?lano Lod~e N?·
229, F . & A. M., SO shares of s~ock in Masonic Temple of Caltf~rma
at $10.00 per share, and the sum of $500.00 be and is hereby appropnated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge in payment of such purchase.

Adopted.
Salaries
14. Your committee has given consideration to the annual salaries
and traveling expenses of the officers of Grand Lodge, and recommend
that the salaries for the following year be fixed as follows :
Grand Secretary ........................................................$8,400.00
Grand Lecturer .......................................................... 6,000.00
Assistant Grand Secretary ...................................... 3,000.00
Grand Tiler .....................,.......................................... 200.00
Grand Organist ........................................................ 100.00
Chairman of Committee on Correspondence...... 500.00
We also recommend that the traveling expenses incurred by _the
Grand Lecturer in performing his official duties in visiting the various
jurisdictions within the State, and also the expenses incurred by Gr~nd
Lodge officers or members of the Grand Lodge who may be travehng
by authority of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore, after the same
have been audited by the Committee on Accounts.

Adopted.
Pay of Members
15. Your Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report
indicating that it will require $20,218.93 to pay the traveling expenses
of the officers and members attending this session. We, therefore, offer
the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:
Resolved that the sum of $20,218.93 be, and it is hereby appropriated from th; funds of this Grand Lodge, for the purpose of paying the
traveling expenses of officers and members attending this session.

Adopted.
Postponed Payment of Grand Lodge Dues
16. Your committee has had before it the request of three Lodges
that the payment of their Grand Lodge tax and Masonic Home fund be
postponed until such time as their financial condition will permit them
to make payment.

753

The following Lodges have had their money tied up on account of
the closing of banks in which their funds were deposited. These Lodges
at present are indebted for Grand Lodge tax and Masonic Home fund
as follows:
Blythe Lodge No. 473................................................$ 87.40
Melrose Lodge No. 602................................................ 401.60
Gardens Lodge No. 621.............................................. 242.00
We recommend that they be given a reasonable time in which to
make the· above payments.

Ad6pted.
Grand Lodge Activities Committee
. . 17. Fr~m a small beginning, the expenses of the Grand Lodge Activities Committee have grown far beyond the amount which your Comm~ttee o~ F inance think should be expended. After thoroughly reviewing
this subJect, we think that the limit of this appropriation should not
exceed $2,000.00.
We are, therefore, offering the following resolution and recommend
its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $2,000.00 be and the same is hereby appropriated out of the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray the expenses
of the committees having in charge Grand Lodge Activities Week for
the annual communication to be held in 1932.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Tax
18. Through resolutions previously presented, you have voted special
taxes as follows :
For m~intenance Masonic H omes of California ....................................$0.50
Masonic Club _Hou~es at the. University of California, Berkeley,
and at Umvers1ty of Cahfornia, Los Angeles................................ .10
Making a total tax voted of 60c per member.
In addition to this the Constitution provides for annual
dues of 50 cents per member for the support of Grand Lodge
and also for annual dues of 50 cents per member for the Building Fund of the Masonic Home. The tax, therefore on the
membership witt be as follows :
.
'
Grand Lodge General Fund..........................................................................$0.50
Masonic Homes Building Fund............., .......................................... ~ .........., .50
Masonic Ho~es Maintenance Fund............................................................ .50
George Washington National Memorial... ..................,.............................. .10
Masomc
. Cl ub H ouses........................................................................................ .10
Or a total Grand Lodge tax, payable as of July 31, 1932, per- member, of .....................................................................:...................$1.70

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

754

Bud~:.t

co~mittee

i:o~i:,~71 ~sat~~u:;;:; ~:fo:~~ti~~P:~

Your
isF?f the
for future Comm1tteesd on t 0 t~:~~e, we were to present and have pubmembers of Grand Lo ge
.
•
f the income and expenses. of
I. h d . th proceedings an ana1ys1s o
ts e Lodge.
m e With this though t .m
. view
.
Grand
we are presenting the followmg:
from sources
G d S
The report of the ran
~ere.tary shows t receipts
·n this analysis. These
other than those which we are. takmg t~tot accou~t ~s difficult to estimate
f
h
h racter that m some ms ances
are o sue a c a
. d
d others that are offset by expenses
the amount that may be receive anh
d ale of supplies and the
f
. tance the pure ase an s
ed
incurr ' as . or ms
d for surety bonds for officers of Lodges.
amounts received _and expende . 1 d d in this report, as they have no
Th r fore these items are not me u e
The figures submitted are in round numbers;
ma;e;ial

b~aring.

Receipts
.00
Dues from Lod.ges................................................................$131,
14 000
000.00
Interest and dividends .........................................................._ _'_ __

.
Total receipts
................................................................$145,000.00
Disbursements
_
240 00
. ........,...........................................................................$ 215'000.00
Salaries
Printing and binding........................................................._.
1'000.00
Contingent expenses Grand Lecturer .............................. 4' 100.00
Office rent ....................................,.........................................
,800.00
Postage .......................................-........................_....-...........
500.00
Auditing ..................................................................................
250.00
Telephone and telegraph...................................................... 1,000.00
Relief by Grand Master...................................................... 20,000.00

~~;rt o~e~~~:~i::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

250.00
1,000.00
Public School Week.............................................................. 2,000.00
Grand Lodge entertainment................................................ 1,000.00
Annual Communication ......................................................
600.00
Gold buttons (50 years)...................................................... 3,000.00
Miscellaneous items ............................................................_ _ __
Total expenses incident to operation --~~----~-~-~-~~$ 61,540.00
Lodge.................................................... ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

755

Appropriations
Committee on History..........................................................$ 3,000.00
Use Grand Master for Masonic Education.................. 2,500.00
Boards of Relief .................................................................... 6,500.00
Employment Bureaus \............................................,............ 9,200.00
Traveling expenses, Grand Master.................................... 5,000.00
Masonic Club Houses .......................................................... 21,000.00
George Washington National Memorial.......................... 28,000.00
Purchase Masonic Temple stock......................................
500.00
Incidental items .................................................................... 3,000.00
Total ................................................................................$ 78,700.00
Grand Total expenses and appropriations ..............$140,240.00
Leaving a possible surplus for the year of.............. 4,760.00

$145,000.00

Conference of Grand Secretaries

20. The M:. W:. Grand Master, -as well as the Committee on
Policy and Purposes, have recommended that the Finance Committee
make an appropriation to defray the expenses of our Grand Secretary
to attend the Conference of Grand Secretaries to be held in Washington, May, 1932.
The Committee on Finance have been unable to reach an agreement in this matter and, therefore, report to the Grand Lodge without recommendation.
Grand Lodge thereupon voted that an appropriation of $500.00
be included in the report of the Finance Committee, for the purpose
of defraying the expense of the Grand Secretary in attending the
Conference of Grand Secretaries.
Grand Lodge Relief
21. There has been brought to the attention of your committee
the temporary embarrassment of a worthy brother who has served
this Grand Lodge long and faithfully. It is a case which, in the
judgment of your committee, properly comes within the purview of
this Grand Lodge.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

Resolved, that the sum of $500.00 be appropriated out of the otherwise unexpended funds of this Grand Lodge, to be expended by
the Grand Master for the relief of a worthy member.

WM. P. JEFFRIES,
FRANK

c. RUPPEL,

JOSEPH M. ARGABRITE,

Adopted.

s.

ARTHUR
CRITES,
Gus A. HuTAFF.

PROCEEl>INOS OF THE

756

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

757

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS

Temple.............................. No. 14.... Henry D. Burmester, Master.......... 3.60

To the M.' .w: .Grand Lodge of Colifornia:
Your Committee on Credentials have the honor to report that 1525
members of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled
to participate in its deliberations.
w ALTER L. BERGER,

Eureka.............................. No. 16.... Vernon G. McCann, Master............ 9.12
Preston W.1 Smith, Past Master
John Henderson Jeffreys, Past Master
Christian F. Richter, Past Master

w

EARL
ARREN'
(HESTER H. WARLOW,
JoHN IRELAN,
(HARLES T. WHITE,

Committee.

Adopted.

Mileage Allowed
Representative

California........................... No. L..Jared M. Cody, Master
Ernst F. Marwedel, Sr. Warden
Lee Crawford, Jr. Warden
Harvey A. Marvin, Past Master
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
Western Star ..................... No. 2.... Samuel Gaston Smith, Master........$24.42
Tehama........................ :...... No. 3....Edward H. Crussell, Master............ 6.48
Chas. L. Pratt, Sr. Warden
Theo J. Milliken, Past Master
Chas. A. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia................................ N o. 5.... William Green, Master...................... 2.40
Tuolumne:.......................... :No. 8....Cecil B. Mathews, Master.................. 13.92
Corinthian.......................... No. 9.... Francis R. Becker, Sr., Warden...... 9.00
Solomon Luvek, Past Master
Lewis Boyd Wilcoxon, Past Master

La Parfaite Union .......... No. 17.... Paul Verdier, Master
Ferdinand A. Vayssie, Jr. Warden
H . Dragon, Past Master
A. Huguenin, Past Master
Henry Mottet, Past Master
M. E. Diebold, Past Master
A. P. Girard, Past Master
Mountain Shade.............. No. 18.... Marion Francis Lusk, Master............ 31.00
San Joaquin ...................... No. 19.... Perry Harris, Master...... :................... 6.12
Washington...................... No. 20....John J os. Haken, Master.................. 6.48
Archibald M. Cameron, Past Master
William A. Sitton, Past Master...... 6.48
Harold I. Scholefield, Past Master
George W. McCoy, Past Master
H. Douglas Hill, Past Master
Walter L. Dosch, Past Master
Hawaiian.......................... No. 21....Leslie E. Bailey, Sr. Warden............ 250.00
Occidental......................-.Ko. 22....Archibald J. Cloud, Maste r
Harold A. C. Mitchell, Sr. Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master and
Inspector
Ralph K. Marshall, Past Master

San Jose........................... No. 10....John A. Fair, Sr., Warden................ 3.48
C. W. Zanker, Jr. Warden
John H. McGehee, Past Master...... 6.48

Madison ............................ No. 23.... Aubrey Nelson Wisker, Master...... 20.28
Sidney Hocking, Sr. Warden
Thos. M. Harris, Past Master and
lnspedor .......................................... 20.28
George Louis J ones, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.. .............. 20.64

Yount................................. No. 12....Benjamin Corlett, Sr., Warden........ 3.00
F. W. Williams, Past Master
T. H. Townsend, Past Master
Percy King, Past Master

Mariposa........................... No. 24....Frederick A. Mack, Master.............. 28.28
Fred Colville Alexander, Sr.
Warden
James P. McElligott, Past Master

Nevada...........................-.No. 13 .... William Gracey, Master.................... 20.64

Georgetown...........:: ......... No. 2S ....Fr:-nk H. Irish, Master...................... 15.76

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

758

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

El Dorado........................ No. 26.... Howard M. Lumsden, Master.. ........ 11.76
George H. Volz, Sr. Warden
John Thomas Hall, Jr. Warden
C. M. Hickman, Past Master and
Inspector ·······'···································· 11.66
Trinity.........:.................._.No. 27.... G_eorge Earl Conner, Master.......... 35.42
Golden Gate.................. __ No. 30.... Leon Wells Carrau, Master
Frederick S. Nobmann, Sr. Warden
Chas. T. White, Past Master
James H. Humphreys, Past Master
N. F. Munson, Past Master
A. F. Heuer, Past Master
Gold Hill........................... No. 32.... W. D. Hayt, Master.......................... 8.52
Ophir ................................ No. 33.... Rolland W. Parker, Master .............. 18.46
San Diego......................... No. 35 .... George C. Wilken, Master ................ 55.64
.
Joseph L. Shell, Sr. Warden
Robert M. McDonald, Jr. Warden
James B. Mclees, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 55.64
Rainsford W. Belding, Past Master
Jesse W. Bailey, Past Master
Claude H. Morrison, Past Master.. 55.64
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master
Howard......................... :... No. 37.... Lawrence E . Schultz, Sr. Warden .... 34.70
Santa Cruz....................... No. 38....Valorous C. Waterman, Master...... 8.52
Willett Ware, Past Master
Chapin C. Day, Past Master
Roy Mayfield, Past Master
Sacramento...................... No. 40.... George V. Reynolds, Master............ 6.48
Walter Eugene Stoddard, Sr.
Warden
Walton Elias Holmes, Jr. Warden
James B. Giffen, Past Master
Frank D. Talbot, Past Master
Martinez ........................... No. 41....Hugh P. Roberts. Master.................. 2.52
Louis Mittelman, Sr. Warden
William E . Tompkins, Jr. Warden

759

Los Angeles ................... .. No. 42.... Hyman Leon Harris, Master.......... 43.08
Tobias Kotzin, Sr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Past Master
and Inspector...................................... 43.08
Hiram............................. _.No. 43.... Leland E. Osborne, Master.............. 11.16
Mt. Moriah.................... _.No. 44.... Raymond Nellis Murphy, Master
Edmond Peirre Bergerot, Sr.
Warden
Harold George Hacke, Jr. Warden
W. E. Anderson, Past Master
John C. Jens, Past Master
Thomas W. Clancy, Past Master
D. B. Richards, Past Master
Roy A. Pratt, Past Master
Crescent... ......................... No. 45 ....Albert Truman Manuel, Master ........ 48.50
Melton Peter Nielsen, Sr. Warden
Myles Bartle Ellis, Jr. Warden
Texas ................................ No. 46....Joseph E. Regan, Master.................. 6.36
Ralph P . Binkley, Sr. Warden
Wm. E. Haskell, Past Master
Forbestown...................... No. 50.... Burt Mansell, Master. ......................... 16.80
J. A. Vaughan, Past Master
lllinoistown ...................... No. SL.George E. West, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 10.92
Suisun............................... No. 55 .... Charles Edw. Torp, Sr. Warden.... 3.60
Wm. H . Witherow, Past Master
John H. Murray, Past Master
Volcano............................ No. 56.... James Giannini, Representative........ 15.12
Santa Rosa ....................... No. 57.... Ira F. Brown, Sr. Warden................ 3.96
Raford W. Leggett, Jr. Warden
James T. Mailer, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.96
C. Jacobs, Past Master
Union ................................. No. 58....John S. McNaughton, Master.......... 6.48
Charles Files Gray, Sr. Warden
Thomas J. Baker, Past Master and
Grand Lecturer
Chas. E. Hill, Past Master
J. P. Bascom, Past Master

760

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

761

N~val... ......................:...._.No. 87 .... Paul L. Wurdig, Master......................

Natoma ............................. No. 64....Richard Henry Borsberry, Master.. 8.16
Charles F . Anderson, Sr. Warden

2.40
Albin R. Setterquist, Sr. W arden
Paul E . Meyers, Jr. W arden
Carl L. Rhodes, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 2.46
Mark T. Andrews, Past Master
Bert C. Whiteley, Past Master
J oseph C. Harrison, Past Master
Frederick Griff, Past Master
James Bitcon, Past'M aster
Chas. E. Zander, Past Master
Rose's Bar.....................·...No. 89....W. G. Rolson, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 12.00

Amador..........................-.No. 65.... Floyd Emerson McFarland, Master 11.62
Albert S. Lawrence, Sr. Warden
Norman B. Bailiff, Jr. Warden

North Star....................._.No. 91....0liver Gilmore Wayne, Sr. Warden 37.70
Ray N. Evans, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 37.70

Forest................................ No. 66....Robert Mortimer Foley, Master...... 25.70
Hugh H. McDougall, Past Master

St. Helena...................... .. No. 93 ....James Edgar Beard, Jr. Warden...... 4.80

Gravel Range ................-.No. 59....Frederick Jos. Joubert, Master .......... 19.00
Plumas.............................. No. 60....Melville Mcintosh, Master................ 27.34
William E'. Styles, Past Master
Live Oak. ......................._.No. 61.. .. Spencer Edwards Beckwith, Master
Elijah Hubert Steele, Sr. Warden
Robert P. Gillham, Jr . .Warden
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Bradford Webster, Past Master and
Past Grand Master

Morning Star................... No. 68....Ira Edward Smith, Master................ 6.12
John L. Mullally, Sr. Warden
Asa Van Covert Martin, Jr.
Warden
Orrin S. Henderson, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Ehterprise........................No. 70....Desmond A. Winship, Master.......... 8.76
Oscar Lawrence Harris, Jr.
Warden
Ernest Briick, Past Master and In~
spector ................................................ 9.84
Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain................No. 76....Walter H . Daily, Master .................. 15.96
F rank C. Adams, Sr. Warden
Calaveras..........................No. 78 .... Charles Edw. Filippini, Master ........ 11.12
Humboldt......................... No. 79....John Cal\'.in White, Master.............. 29.40
James T . Fraser, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 29.40
lone.............................:...-.No. 80....Thomas E. Morrin, Sr. Warden...... 9.12
Yolo ................................_.No. 81....Chas. E. Patton, Master.................... 6.60
Leon L. Borach, Sr. Warden
Vesper............................-.No. 84....Fred H. Weeks, Master...................... 20.78

Henry Clay..................... No. 95 .... Walter Lewis Hornburger, Sr.
Warden .............................................. 11.62
H orilitos...........................No. 98.... Clarence C. Fitzgibbon, Sr. Warden
and Representative............................ 20.18
Yosemite ........................-.No. 99.... Walter J. Chenoweth, Master .......... 10.0P
Earl R. Ewing, Sr. Warden
J ohn E. Brown, Jr. Wa rden
True W. Fowler, Past Master
Roy E . Lantz, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 10.08
Leonard A. Wayne, Past Master·
Ralph E. DeWitt, Past Master
Clay.......:.........................No. 101....Chas. F. Collins, Master .................... 12.00
Oroville...........................No. 103....Albert V. Putney, Sr. W arden .......... 10.80
Chas. 0 : Hamilton, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 10.80
Albert E. Boynton, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Lexington .......................No. 104.... Robert G. Wolstoncroft, Master...... 44.16
Arcata .............................No. 106....Clinton W. Bledsqe, Jr. Warden...... 30.00
Pajaro.............................No. 110....F loyd D. Burwash, Master................ 7.08

\
762

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chico............................... No. 111....Chas. Haskell Collier, Sr. Warden.. 12.24
Summit............................No. 112....Thomas H. Prouse, Past Master
and Representative...............:............ 11.52
Eden ................................ No. 113.... Albert A. Fledderman, Master.......... 1.08
Melbourne Wright, Sr. Warden
Sydney Briggs Force, Past Master

\

GHAND LOUGE OF CALIFORNIA

763

V~lia.............................No. 128....James
Anderson, Master.................... 23.68
Otas. H. J. Rausch, Past Master
and Junior Grand Steward............ 23.68

Xicola~s ..........................No. 129.... Russel Bartlett Catlett, Master........ 9.00

Woodb~dge................... No. 131....Verne W . Hoffman, Master..............

6.n

Cralis Dexter, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 6.48

Concord.......................... No. 117....William H. Gilbert, Master.............. 6.48
Robert L. Hery, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 6.48

Sincerity..........................No. 132.... Solon F. Luzzadder, Jr. W arden ...... 26.88

Clinton.............:..............No. 119.... Byron D. Bigler, Master.................. 26.42

Vacaville.........................No. 134....F. H. Clark, Past Master.................. 4.80
R. G. Allen, Past Master

Fidelity........................... No. 120.... Leon Mayer Lowenthal, Master
Allyn S. Wexel, Sr. Warden
Leo S. Schoenfeld, Jr. Warden
Phillip J acobovics, Past Master
George K . Manheim, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Benj. Armer
Alamo............................. No. 122.... Allan McPhee, Sr. Warden.............. 3.84
Elwood Glazier, Jr. Warden
Chas. S. Faisst, Past Master
J . B. Near, Past Master
Sotoyome ........................No. 123 ....0tarlcs W. Benjamin, Master.......... 4.92
Table Mountain............. o. 124....Adolph N. Caspare, Past Master
and Representative ............................ 10.80
Kenneth F. MacKanzer, Past
Master
Walton Green O'Neal, Past Master
La Fayette..................... No. 126.... William Carlylle Heatly, Master.... 4.44
Cort G. Husing, Sr. Warden
Earnest A. Feaks, Past Master
Chas. F. Chase, Past Master
Asa L. Hutton, Past Master
Hermann.........................No. 127....Richard H. Dachner, Master
Hugo H. W. Stamm, Sr. Warden
Otto C. von Borstel, Jr. Warden
E. A. Neumarkel, Past Master
Louis Muller, Past Master and
Inspector
Paul R. Schubert, Past Master
Ernest Gentner
George A. Creon
Paul H, Posch

Valley..............................No. 135....James B. Hughes, Master................ 6.12
Pacific..............................No. 136.... Bernard S. Colan, Master
Harold R. Jacobs, Sr. Warden
Carl W. Miles, Jr. Warden
Thomas Anderson, Past Master and
Inspector
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Walter S. Gray, Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Hugo Hertz, Past Master
Chas. E. Jackson, Past Master
Wm. Fanta, Past Master
Frank Mueller, Past Master
Isadore M. Sommer, Past Master
Harry K. Wolff, Past Master
Crockett. .........................No. 139.... Harold A. Dunlap, Master
W illiam A.H. Fleischer, Sr.
Warden
William Andrew Ritchey, Jr.
Warden
Beverly M. Robinson, Past Master
Bernard S. Pedersen, Past Master
Curtis............................... No. 140.... Chas. E. Hunabert, Representative.. 6.24
Grafton ........................... No. 141.... Elmer Guy Beyers, Master................ 6.96
Franklin..........................No. 143....Ralph Krull, Sr. Warden.................. 6.40
Gordon Wight, Jr. Warden

I
764

\

NWCEEDlNGS OF THE

Oriental...........................No. 144....Lawrence P. Hansen, Master
Volney Stamps, Sr. Warden
Roy Norman Buell, Jr. Warden
Wm. S. Wells, Past Master
Graham B. Pearson, Past Master
Walter Leonard, Past Master and
Inspector
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
Wm. E. Conner, Past Master
Wm. E. McHugh, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Owen L. Gibson, Past Master
Clarence W . Dobie, Past Master
George B. Lake, Past Master
Frank C. Martin, Past ·Master
John Tonningsen, Past Master
Vitruvius........................ No. 145 .... Wm. James Somers, Master.............. 4.82
Abell... .............................No. 146.... E. W. Hutton, Master........................ 8.28
C. B. Heryford, Sr. Warden
Eel River........................No. 147.... Lyle Preston Connick, Master. ......... 30.00
Walter G. Orman, Past Masfer

~la~

:

ed•
\

G~::~,:~::.:FAc::::•

M.,t<'
Frank B. Hartman, Past Master
Albert Norris, Past Master

Redwo~ City ................ No. 16'L .Gilman B. Merrill, Master................

765
2.40

l.92

Harold E. Simpton, Sr. Warden
John Daniel McCrea, Jr. Warden
C. G. Lambert, Past Master
L. A. Heiner, Past Master
Mission............................No. 169.... Harry F. Borden, Master
John Conrad Strickler, Sr. Warden
William R. Arnold, Jr: Warden
Robert E. Allan, Past Master
George A. Hansen, Past Master
George L. Edmondson, Past Master
Elk Grove....................... No. 173.... James Edward Rushy, Master .......... . 7.80
Thomas L. Conrad, Past Master
Drytown..........................No. 174.... J ohn J . Myers, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 10.12
· Antioch........................... No. 175.... Victor M. Parachini, Master............ 3.96
Leland F. Hulbert, Sr. Warden

Lassen..............................No. 149.... Arthur Woodward, Master.. .............. 32.12
Ivor B. Clark, Past Master
John B. Spalding, Past Master and
Inspector ....,....................................... 32.12
F. L. Holmes, Past Master

Mendocino......................No. 179....Kenneth C. ·B. Williams, Jr. Warden 26.38

Molino.............................No. 150.... Nicholas Chas. Hesse, Master.......... 19.94
Stears W. Wood, Sr. Warden

Petaluma.........................No. 180....William I. McEwan, Sr. Warden...... 2.88
Arthur E. Owen, Past Master

Woodland ....................... No. 156....Loren E. Fairlee, Master.................. 6.24
Eugene C. Stowe, Sr. Warden

Russian River.. .............. No. 181....Frank Fred Welti, Master..........'...... 4.56

Phoenix..........................Mo. 178....Leo C. Dunmeyer, Master................ 47.28
Frank R. Eshelman, Sr. Warden
Jesse W. Curtis, Past Master

Arbuckle.........................No.182.... Beniamin E. Perkins, Jr. W arden .... 828

Keystone .........................N o. 161....Albert L. Groves, Master.................. 8.28
]. F. Helms, Past Master

Clear Lake......................No. 183 ....Loren Hunt, Master............................ 13.90

Harmony.........................N o. 164....Ernest M. Innes, Master.................... 36.38

Sierra Valley..................No. 184....Gifford D. Webber, Master..............,. 34.98

Excelsior........................ No. 166....Ralph G. Curtis, Sr. Warden
Arnold T. Brown, Jr. Warden
George R. Armstrong, Past Master
James W . Crosby, Past Master
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Master
R. L. Guyett, Past Master

Claiborne........................No. 185....William H. Smith, Master.. .............. 26.08
·
Clarence W. Nicks, Past Master
and Inspector.. .................................. 26.38
D. W. Dunbar, Past Master
Evening Star..................No. 186....Benton A. McLellan, Jr. Warden.... 33.86
Keith ................................No. 187 ... .Spencer Morrow Maze, Master...... 5.64

766

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Penta,lpha .......,................No. 202....Alfred M. McLaren, Master............ 43.08
Theodore J. Spurgeon, Sr. Warden
Constantine N. Perkins, Jr. W arden
James B. Gist, Past Master and
Jr. Grand Master.............................. 43.08
Lawrence C. Kelley, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 43.08

Oakland.......................... No. 188.... Arnt S. Heidekker, Master
Sophus Nelson, Past Master and
Inspector
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Master <ind
Deputy Grand Master
Francis A. Brann, Past Master
Wm. S. McMurtry, Past Master
Thomas I. Miller, Past Master
Northern Light..............No. 190....George F. Farley, Sr. Warden.......... 22.92
Marin...............................No. 191....George T. Arnold, Master..................
Harry, F. Meilink, Sr. Warden
Herbert K. Walton, Jr. Warden
Jos. Block, Past Master
Chas. T. Smith, Past Master
F. M. Angellotti, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
George F . Rodden, Past Master and
Past Grand Master

767

I.OS

Confidence...................... No. 203.... Walter C. Buttle, Past Master.......... 6.80
Christopher Dudley, Representative
Salinas.............................No. 204.... Elbe E. Hitchcock, Master................ 8.28
Frederick T. Kraft, Sr. Warden
Arthur G. Howell, Jr. Warden
Walter M. Anderson, Past Master
Olivet...............................No. 205....0scar Chas. Bley, Sr. Warden........ 12.96
Stanislaus....................... No. 206....Azel Edwin Gustafson, Sr. Warden 7.44
Anaheim......................... .No. 207....Hugo Shulz, Master............................ 45.00
Arthur Shipkey, Sr. Warden

Santa Barbara ................No. 192.... William L . Snook, Sr. Warden...... 34.02

Rio Vista.........................No. 208....Frank Haines, Representative.......... 4.40

Ferndale..........................No. 193.... Chas. A. Nicholson, Master.............. 31.20
R. R. Williams, Past Master

King Davids ...................No. 209.... Elmo E. Burriss, Jr. Warden............ 24.00
Walter D. Adriance, Past Master
and Inspector...................................... 24.00
John Whicher, Past Master and
Grand Secretary

Mountain View ..............No. 194.... Walter L. Erichsen, Master.............. · 2.64
Buckeye........................... No. 195 ....Arthur Buell lih, Master.................. 6.00
Arthur H. Mangan, Past Master
San Simeon..... - ..............No. 196.... Nigel Keep, Master.............................. 29.00
William R. Williams, Sr. Warden
Wilmington.................... No. 198....John B. Chadwick, Master................ 44.52
Warren A. Shepherd, Sr. Warden
Hartley............................No. 199.... A. M. Reynolds, Past Master............ 12.32
John D. Monroe, Representative
and Inspector .................................... 12.32
Truckee...........................No. 200.... Roy Allen Feathers, Master............ 23.16
William Frederick Wilkie, Jr.,
Jr. Warden
Silveyville.......................No. 201....Russel ]. Merritt, Sr. Warden.......... 4.92
E. C. Watson, Past Master

Friendship...................... No. 210....Clayton St. John Hale, Master........ 3.48
Claude L . Clark, Sr. Warden
Theodore M. Wright, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 3.48
Darrell J. Sedgwick, Past Master
W. W. Paul, Past Master
Albert T. Hollingsworth, Past
Master
J ohn T . Knight, Past Master
San Benito......................No. 211....Henry Adolf Fledderman, Master .... 6.60
Richard W. O'Bannon, Inspector.... 6.60

So~th San Francisco.... No. 212....Charles F. Hensel, Master
Henry A. Kruger, Sr. Warden
Raymond Kaufman, Past Master
Wm. G. Green, Past Master
'
Richard Neilan, Past Master
Otfo ]. Spindler, Past Master
George A. Lastein, Past Master
~:,

768

.PROCl!]EDINUS OF 'rHE

San Buenaventura......... No. 214....Thomas C. Wallace, Master.............. 37.56
Glenn D. Corey, Sr. Warden
Courtland R. Strong, Jr. Warden
M. L. Brazil, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 37.56
Joseph M. Argabrite, Past Master.. 37.56
David J. Reese, Past Master and
. Past Grand Master.......................... 37.56
Oak Grove ...................... No. 215....Kenneth R. Cunningham, Sr. Warden
George C. Merris, Jr. Warden
F. G. Thornton, Past Master
M. C. Godfrey, Past Master
Doric................................No. 216.... Adler M. Larsen, Master
Edward Mass Jaffa, Jr. Warden
Manuel Lafee, Past Master
Monterey........................ No. 217....Charles A. Watson, Master.............. 8.88
.·
·
Clyde H . Warren, Sr. Warden
Thomas H. Lee, Past Master
Mosaic.............................No. 218.... Manly J. Clark, Past Master and
Inspector
T. F. Brady, Representative.............. 3.48
Speranza Italiana.......... No. 219....Antonio Battista Torelli, Master
Pietro Capua, Sr. Warden
John Joseph Alioto, Jr. Warden
John M. Icardo, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.48
Antonio Cogliandro, Past Master
Giovanni Scalmanini, Past Master
Emilio V. Lonigo, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

769

Brooklyn.........................No. 225 ....Charles L. Hemphill, Sr. Warden
Robert A. Smale, Jr. Warden
Irving Magnes, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
San Mateo...................... No. 226.... Roy Wm. Rigby, Master.................... 1.32
George E. Forbes, Sr. Warden
Donald W. Tiddy, Jr. Warden
Athens............................. No. 228....George E . Burks, Master.................. 5.52
Chas. E. Greene, Inspector and
Past Master........................................ 6.24
Solano............................. No. 229....Howard M. Towle, Master.............. 2.46
Chester P. Berner, Sr. Warden
Alvord B. Cushing, Past Master
John Ramsay, Past Master
Osgood H . Hilton, Past Master
Edward F. DeLamater, Past Master
Edwin N. Sanders, Past Master
North Butte....................No. 230....Edgar Wm. Stanton, Jr., Master...... 10.32
J ames M. McElroy, Sr. Warden
Covelo............................. No. 231....Archie N. Moore, Sr. W arden ........ 21.86
Janesville........................ No. 232....Francis L. Wilbur, Master................ 36.12
J. F. Theodore, Past Master
Calistoga.........................No. 233....John A. Taylor, Master...................... 5.40
William K. Buxton, Sr. Warden
Hope................................No. 234....Lesley E. Mercer, Master.................. 31.20
E. H. Hamlen, Jr. Past Master
Surprise Valley............. No. 235 ....W. E . Hill, Representative.............. 50.24

Downey...........................No. 220.... Charles Pomering, Master................ 43.92
R. B. Harris, Past Master

Hills Ferry..................... No. 236.... Claude Samuel Woten, Sr. Warden 7.92
Wm. S. Thompson, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 7.92

Inyo................................. No. 221....Luther L. Stewart, Master................ 55.86
Alex C. Krater, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 55.86

Guadalupe.......................No. 237... .Kai K. Han,sen, Representative........ 25.68
F . J. McCoy, Past Master

Roseville......................... No. 222....Lucas Shaffer, Master........................ 7.80
Bakersfield..................... No. 224.... Grover M. Schakelford, Master...... 29.34
Andrew H. Walker, Sr. Warden
Ray E. Smythe, Jr. Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 29.34

Colusa..............................No. 240....Warren G. Davison, Master............ 9.72
Wm. J. Comfort, Sr. Warden
Claude L. Houchins, Jr. Warden
Harry F. Osgood, Past Master
E. Hicok, Past Master and Inspector ........................................................ 9.72
W. L. Merrill, Past Master

771

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Santa Ana .......................No. 241....Arthur E. Collins, Master ................ 45.48
Raymond R. Ross, Sr. Warden
E. B. Trago, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 45.48

255 .... Ralph Raney, Master.......................... 23.16
Welcome.........................No ·
·
N 256.... William H. Croswhite, Master........ 6.48
Lod1 ................................. r o.
Edmund Lee Rieff, Jr. Warden

770

Magnolia........................ No. 242....Charles F. Lemmon, Master ............ 34.02
Francis R. Dolan, Sr. Warden
Ralph C. Hine, Jr. Warden
Fred L. Johnston, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 34.02
Chas. N. Allen, Past Master
Eucalyptus ...................... No. 243.... Wm. M. Bockman, Master................
George D. Hovey, Sr. Warden
Joseph P . Pearce, Jr. Warden

Penrhyn;......................... No. 258....William D. Bethell, Master.............. 8.52
N 259 James H Jordan Master.................. 47.28
.... F rank T : Carroll: Sr. Warden
Evergreen....................... o.
Herrick E. Schuer, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 47.28
James MacDougall, Past Master

1.56

Alcatraz.......................... No. 244....Thomas Smillie, Sr. Warden
George Knight Harry, Jr. Warden
Carl C. Eien, Past Master
Wm. W . Neal, Past Master
Elbert W. Garrity, Past Master
Alonzo Waggener, Past Master

King Solomon's ............. No. 260....Rollin M. Kelley, Master
J ohn Wesley Davey, Sr. Warden
Thayter B. Thomas, Jr. Warden
Randolph V . Whiting, Past Master
Wm. K. Cullen, Past Master
Edw. E . Conn, Past Master
·
N 261 J A. Robinson Master...................... 9.12
Tuscan ........_..................... o.
.... Chas. F. Keith,' Sr. V.' arden

Laurel..............................No. 245.... Herbert Leo Murch, Sr. Warden...... 10.92

.
,
No. 262 .... P e:-ry H. Benson, Representative.... 30.06
Lompcc .......................... .

Pomona........................... No. 246....James Nisbet, Master ........................ 45.66
George A. Goodell, Sr. Warden
Herbert B. Martin, Jr. Warden
George C. Smithen, Past Master
and Inspector...................................... 45.60

Hesperian....................... No. 264....Dudley D . Brady, Sr. Warden........ 26.68

Fresno ............................. No. 247....Fred P. Roullard, Sr. Warden ........ 20.04
Donald H . Fisher, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 20.04

Galt..................................N o. 267 .... George Ellis Griffith, Sr. Warden.... 6.48
No 268....John Wm. Gregg, Master
Durant............................. .
Roy V. Crowell, Jr. Warden

Orland.............................No. 265 ....Herman T . H.ans, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 12.00
North East......................No. 266....George Fordyce, Master.................... 53.20

Alturas............................ No. 248.... John R. Bonner, Master...................... 44.24
Chas. P . Baldwin, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.24
Adin .................................No. 250.... Claude R. Brown, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 61.36
Landmark.......................No. 253....Lowell E. Mast~. Sr. Warden............ 7.32
Reading ...........................No. 254.... Albert F. Ross, Master....................:. 22.92
Hugh H. Shuffleton, Jr., Sr. Warden
George P. Rogers, Jr. Warden
G. C. DeForest, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 22.92
McCoy Fitzgerald, Past Master

N. 0 . Millar, Past Master
W. W . Bradley, Past Master
F . E. H . O'Donnell, Past Master
Wm. H . Waste, Past Master
Olive Branch..................No. 269....George W . S~yre, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 23.28
Snow Mountain.............No. 271....Ira Earl True, Master........................ 15.72
Pasadena.........................

No. 272....Frank Martin Booth, Master.......... 44.04
Allen L. Dunnica, Sr. Warden
Ralph T . Merriam, Jr. Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

772

773

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Anchor ............................ No. 273 .... George E. Hodge, Sr. Warden........ 43.92

Orange Grove................ No. 293.... Sherman Gillogly, Master.................. 45.48
Lucian Flippen, Sr. Warden
Leon Whitsell, Past Master

Arroyo .............................No. 274.... Louis L. Erthel, Master ...................... 24.90
Axel Harry Severson, Sr. Warden
H. A. Truesdale, Past Master

Traver.............................No. 294.... Arthur C. Scheline, Master................ 21.60
Alex C. Nelson, Sr. Warden

Oakdale...........................No. 275 ....Earl Anderson, Master...................... 8.52
Bernhard I. Hoisholt, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 8.52
Selma...............................No. 277.... Leonard W. Anderson, Sr. Warden 21.24
Southern California..... No. 278.... Donald R. Wilkinson, Master .......... 43.08
William C. Kottemann, Sr. Warden
Wm. P. Jeffries, Past Master .......... 43.08
Edward P. Spencer, Past Master
Dana R. Weller, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 43.08
Hanford..........................N o. 279.... Winfield E. Martin, Sr. Warden ...... 22.56
Madera............................ No. 280.... Andrew S. Honeycutt, Master .......... 18.60
James E. Barrett, Sr. Warden
Mt. Shasta...................... No. 281....William C. Gover, Master ................ 22.08
Lewis C. Story, Jr. Warden
Callayomi....................... No. 282.... Lrion B. Hunt, Master...................... 9.90
Paul F. Hoberg, Sr. Warden
South West... ..................No. 283.... Bert K. Hesseltine, Master ................ 56.06
San Miguel... ..................No. 285....Sherman A. Andrews, Master.......... 14.64
Paso Robles ....................No. 286....Henry A. Vorrath, Sr. Warden........ 15.36

Mt. Jackson ................... No. 295.... Walter G. Fo?da, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 5.40
Silver Gate..:...................No. 296.... Harvey R. Sylvester, Master......... . 55.64
Raymond P. Wakeman, Sr. Warden
Earle H. Parkins, Jr. Warden
-Francis Mitchell, Past Master
Frank A. Frye, Past Master and
Grand Standard Bearer.................. 55.64
D

·
N 0 297 G A Hutaff Past Master and Past
unsmuir ........................ .
.... . Gr~nd Ma~ter .................................... 28.98
Frank L. We'amer, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 28.98

Liberty............................ No. 299....Chas. 0. Burrell, Master.-................. 3.24
Frederick H. Mehlhorn, Sr. Warden
Chas. A. English, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.48

Redla~ds ..................".......No. 300 ....Arthur Crim, Jr., Sr. Warden .......... 48.00
Harry Horne, Past Master and
Grand Bible Bearer.......................... 48.00
Arthur Crim, Sr., Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 48.00
Ontario............................No. 301....Sherman M. Hoyt, Master................ 45.90

Winnedumah..................No. 287.... James L. McMurtrie, Master............ 57.58
Ezra T. Albright, Sr. Warden

Santa Lucia....................No. 302....Joseph E. Reinhart, Jr. Warden...... 11.52
·11·
No. 303 ....Logan L. Dobbs, Master.................... 25.08
P orterv1 e......................
. Ed S. Lawson, Past Master and

Maxwell... ......................No. 288....Albert T. Butler, Sr. Warden.......... 9.72

Inspector ............................................ 25.08

Elsinore..........................No. 289 ....Willis A. Thompson, Master............ 48.08

Reedley............................N·o. 304....Claude V. Wo;rel, Master.................. 21.84

East Gate ......................... No. 290.... Clarence E. Reese, Master................ 43.08
Frank S. Moore, Sr. Warden

Azusa...............................No. 305 .... Charles C. Carpenter, Master .......... 44.88

Santa Paula....................No. 291....Warren L. King, Master .................. 38.76
Thomas L . Millham, Sr. Warden
Los Gatos ........................No. 292....David N. Nerell, Sr. Warden............ 3.72
F . M. Widby, Past Master

Ashlar ........ - ................... No. 306....John Henry Miller, Sr. Warden ...... 47.28
·
No 307....Frank A. Helton, Master .................. 44.64
Santa Momca................. .
John E . Paterson, Sr. Warden.
Frank M . Wise, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Victor R. McLucas, Past Master...... 44.64

774

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Monrovia ........................ No. 308.... Clarence F. Miller, Master................ 44.40
Wilson Pro Elliott, Sr. Warden
Claude Thomas Silcott, Jr. Warden
L. M. Renaker, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.40
J. M. Bashor, Past Master
Delano............................. No. 309.... 0liver ]. Whitten, Master................ 27.06
Archibald Sheppard, Past Master
Alexander S. Kramer, Past Master
Sisson .............................. No. 310....Chas. R. Love, Master........................ 30.06
Los Banos .......................N.o. 312....Thomas M. Amos, Master................ 9.36
Thomas C. Mott, Sr. Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

775

\.\'hittier.......................... No. 323.... Clarence S. Cole, Master.................. 44.52
Albert E. Lee, Sr. Warden
Roy I. LeFever, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.52
(orona.............................No. 324.... Robert L. Watson, Master................ 44.04
Lambert P. Bagnard, Sr. Warden
Leslie E. Learned, Past Master and
Grand Orator .................................... 44.04
Consuelo......................... No. 325 ....Christian A. S. Kemper, Master...... 53.58
Ernest Hugh Guyer, Sr. Warden
Chas. R. Wilkinson, Jr. Warden
Arthur Paul, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 53.58

Tehachapi....................... No. 313....John White, Master............................ 32.82
Ralph R. Merritt, Past Master
Harry J. Beauford, Past Master

Needles............................No. 326.... Giles B. Combs, Sr. Warden............ 57.80

Temescal.........................No. 314.... Frank S. Johnson, Master................ 48.36
Wilbur G. Darst, Sr. Warden
William E. Loranger, Jr. Warden
Fred E. Snedecor, Past Master........ 48.36

Redondo.......................... No. 328....Claude Brooks, Master...................... 44.64·

Long Beach.................... No. 327.... Layton J. Rienhardt, Master............ 44.64
Abram M. Thompson, Sr. Warden

Vallee de France ........... No. 329 ....Leon Curtet, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 43.08

Norwalk. .........................No. 315 ....Chester E. Irish, Master.................... 44.28
Sanger.............................No. 316....A. Christiansen, Sr. Warden............ 21.12
Fallbrook. .......................No. 317.... 0liver A. Staude, Master.................. 53.30
Emmanuel... ....................No. 318....H. S. Brink, Jr., Master.................... 10.56
Hollenbeck. .................... No. 319.... Ernest N. Simmons, Master.............. 43.08
Robert G. Payne, Sr. Warden
South Gate.:....................No. 320.... William F. Berkenheger, Master ...... 43.08
Howard M. Wallace, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Griffiths, Past Master

Kilauea ............................No. 330....David Greig Butchart. Jr. Warden .. 283.00
John T. Moir, Past Master and
Grand Sword Bearer......................250.00
Pacilic Grove ..................No. 331....Willis M. Lonigan, Master................ 9.00
Elwyn Walter Jenkins, Sr. Warden
Chas. K. Tuttle, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 9.00
Edwin A. Cope, Past Master
Russell M. Giles, Past Master
Chas. L. Cope, Past Master

Alisal... ............................No. ~21....Claude I. Freeman, Master................ 3.00
Hans N. Hansen, Sr. Warden
Robert E . Cope, Jr. Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master

San Pedro.......................No. 332....Henry M. Woolsey, Master............ 44.64
Andrew S. Miller, Jr., Sr. Warden

Alhambra........................No. 322.... Erie Lake Farris, Master.................. 43.68
Joseph W. Schoeppner, Sr. Warden
Chas. C. Netz, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.68

Covina.............................No. 334....Earl F. Davis, Sr. Warden ................ 44.90

Alta..................................No. 333.... James Cameron Stewart, Master...... 46.42
Henry L. Killian, Sr. Warden

West Gate...................... No. 335 .... Felix J. Jonas, Master...................... 43.08
Julian N. Cole, Sr. Warden
Harry S. Lasker, Past Master

776

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

777

Fruitvale......................... No. 336....John Hugh Morris, Master
Fritz Schuler, Sr. Warden·
George R. Gehring, Jr. Warden
Clarence B. Dickson, Past Master
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
William I. Day, Past Master

McKiqley.......................No. 347....Alexander Dawson, Master.............. 1.20
Raymond Wilson Walker, Sr. Warden
Rolla Lea Eubanks, Jr. Warden
Isaac McGuffin, Past Master
A. C. Curtis, Past Master

Carqumez........................No. 337 ....Frank N. Young, Master.................... 2.16
Richard P. Jones, Sr. Warden
Jacob E. Hughes, Past Master and
Inspector
Thomas Edwards, Past Master
James King, Past Master
Benj. F. Scribner, Past Master
George Jones, Past Master

San Bernardino ............. No. 348....DeWitt Mitcham, Master.................. 4728
George F. Feetham, Past Master
. and Inspector .................................... 47.28
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08

San Jacinto.....................No. 338....Louis Dixie Miller, Master................ 50.94
Fullerton.........................No. 339....David E. Fickel, Master...................... 44.88
Arch M. Edwards, Sr. Warden
John Wm. Ritterbusch, Jr. Warden
Oxnard............................No. 341....R~y G. Scannell, Sr. Warden ............ 38.28
Luther P . Nicholson, Jr. Warden
San Fernando ................ No. 343.... Arthur W rri. Green, Master.............. 41.64
Chas. W. Waite, Past Master
Starr King ......................No. 344....Leland S. Bright, Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Sr. Warden
N. McN. Ellsworth, Jr. Warden
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Alfred F . Breslauer, Past Master
and Inspector
Soloman Deutsch, Past Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Charles Bair, Past Master
Clyde C. Hinshaw, Past Master
Herbert D. Bendheim, Past Master
Chas. 0. Munson, Past Master
Brentwood......................No. 345.... Ruben L. Boltsen, Master................ 4.56
Palo Alto........................ No. 346.... Paul M. P. Merner, Master............ 2.28
L. Harold Anderson, Sr. Warden
Leonidas K. Doty, Jr. Warden
Newton W . Glaeser, Past Master
A. M. Umphreys, Past Master

Sequoia............................No. 349....John F. Phelps, Master
Raymond D. Laughrey, Sr. Warden
Chas. Merritt Cowell, Jr. Warden
Earl Warren, Past Master
Chas. Husband, Past Master
J. F. Mote, Past Master
A. D. Beuttel, Past Master
Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master
and Inspector
Charles Chubb, Past Master
Palestine......................... No. 351....George Howard Borden, Master...... 43.08
Walter F. Haas, Past Master............ 43.08
Sunset..............................No. 352....Chas. Otto Miller, Master .................. 43.08
Horace Lee Trafford, Sr. Warden
Rollie W . Miller, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Master........ 43.68
Samuel E. Burke, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08
Ralph A. Chase, Past Master............ 43.08
Pinole .............................. No. 353....Charles S. Pierce, Master................ 1.68
Henry N. W itherow, Sr. Warden
Jos. C. Booth, Past Master
Presidio...........................No. 354.... Sigurd C. Nelson, Master
Caston Pope, Sr. Warden
Emil G. Wunner, Jr. Warden
Frank G. Watson, Past Master and
Grand Tiler
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master
John E. Butterfield, Past Master
Jeremiah C. Carson, Past Master
Wm. A. Sh erman, Past Master and
Past Grand Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

778

779

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hollywood......................No. 355 ....Russell M. Broker, Master.............. 43.68
James A .. Fraser, Sr. Warden
Wm. B. Ogden, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Walter F. Burbank, Past Master
Dudley F. Black, Past Master
Mill Valley..................... No. 356....Thomas C. Nelson, Master
Francis G. Burt, Sr. Warden
Frederick A. Penn, Jr. Warden
Kent J. C. Seymour, Past Master
and Inspector
Thomas S. Watters, Past Master
Buena Park. ................... No. 357....Caryl B. Snyder, Master .................. 44.64

South Pasadena.............No. 367.... Horace E. Vedder, Master................ 43.80
Andrew C. Heintzelman, Sr. Warden
George D. Brayowier, Past Master
Frank H. Bush, Past Master
Franklin Padan, Past Master............ 43.80
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity ............................... No. 368.... Archibald M. Morton, Master.......... 43.68
Roy C. Jellison, Sr. Warden
Dwight W . Stephenson, Past Master and Inspector.............................. 43.08
Ocean Park.................... No. 369....Homer D. Peek, Master.................... 44.64
David G. Vail, Sr. Warden

Golden State...................No. 358....George M. ·Swain, Master.................. 43.08
Arthur B. Dittman, Sr. Warden
]. Frank Bourne, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Alexander J . Watson, Past Master
Ben G. Wright, Past Master............ 43.08

Amity.............................. No. 370.... Francis Jos. Lyttle, Master
Elmin T . Banzhaf, Sr. Warden
Marcus Wm. Dunbar, Past Master
Richard Cain, Past Master
Wm. E. Wood, Past Master
Le Progres
de l'Oceanie................ No.371 ....James A. Garvie, Master................... .250.00

Loyalty............................No. 359....Clarence Wm. Johnson, Master ...... 31.98
Joel S. Conklin, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 31.98

Gardena ...........................No. 372.... Keith W. Schlaegel, Master............ 44.04
Lewis T. Guild, Jr., Sr. Warden

San Francisco................ No. 360....Henry Lewis Alves, Master
Frederick Wm. Neuman, Sr. Warden
Alton V. Fuller, Past Master
Victor Elmo Perry, Past. Master
Eddy T. Boyd, Past Master
Fort Bragg.....................No. 361....Elvin S. Maddux, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 24.08
Charity ............................ No. 362....Percy Henry Dunlap, Master.......... 3.72
Harry C. Smith, Sr. Warden
Berkeley..........................No. 363.... Albert M. Hardie, 'Master
David C. Jones, Jr. Warden
Charles A. McKelvey, Past Master
Willits............................. No. 365....Eley V. Wonacott, Sr. Warden...... 10.08
Las Palmas.....................No. 366....James Nielson, Sr. Warden ............ 20.04
Christian Peter Jensen, Jr. Warden
Andrew W. Horn, Past Master
Ernest M. Myers, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 20.04
James R. Erskine, Past Master

Veteran...........................No. 373 .... Robert V. W. Worl, Master............ 44.28
Jewel... .............................No. 374.... Clarence W. Mann, Master
Charles Crawford, Sr. Warden
Jesse P. Rundell, Jr. Warden
Chas. E. Anderson, Past Master and
Grand Organist
Wm. D. Williams, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Curtis Benton, Past Master
Robert G. Wakeman, Past Master
Clarence J . Shipaugh, Past Master
Richmond ....................... No. 375 .... William C. Johnson, Master
James L. Halley, Sr. Warden
James H. Conner, Jr. Warden
Wm. A. Smith, Jr. Past Master
E. L. Fischer, Past Master
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
George H. Bradner, Past Master

•
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

780

·7.81

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

East Belt.. ....................... No. 391....Wade B. Archer, Master.................. 16.80
Francis Drake ................No. 376.... Bernard J. Hjerpe, Master
Arthur T. Weed, Sr. Warden
Richard M. Zemke, Jr. Warden
Artesia............................ N o. 377 .... William S. Russell, Master.............. 44.40
Mizpah ..........c••••••••••••••••• No. 378.... Frederick J. Brudi, Jr. Warden ...... 43.08
c;lyde N. Driskell, Past Master
Fillmore.......................... No. 379.... Arthur C. Price, Sr. Warden .......... 39.48 .
Leo C. Harmonson, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach ........ .No. 380 .... Fred T. Grable, Master ...................... 46.08
Nathan Lemert, Sr. Warden
Oceanside ........................ No. 381....Clark H. Morgan, Master .................. 51.46
Highland Park. ............. .No. 382.... Millard M. Mier, Master.................. 43.08
Louis P. Russill, Sr. Warden
Thomas V. Hatfield, Past Master
Orosi... .............................No. 383 .... Chas. C. Applegate, Sr. Warden ...... 26.40
El Centro........................ No. 384 .... Robert Lee Graham, Master............ 68.16
Willard S. Sylvester," Sr. Warden
John Stewart Ross, Past Master
and Grand Master ............................ 43.08
Chas. E. Sones, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 68.16
Dinuba .............................No. 385 .... Verne S. Stockholm, Master............ 22.20
Eldridge C. \V. Scruggs, Sr. Warden
Clarence L. Fraser, Past Master ·
and Inspector .................................... 22.20
Coalinga ..........................No. 387.... Roscoe B. Curyea, Jr. Warden.......... 26.16
Parnassus ....................... No. 388.... Roy P. Lutzi, Master
John P. Mohring, Sr. Warden
Kenneth B. Hoppe, Jr. Warden
Bruce Wale, Past Master
Chas. P. J. Smith, Past Master
Joseph C. Durham, Past Master
Charles Goff, Past Master
Palos Verdes .................. No. 389 ....Samuel F. Benton, Sr. Warden ........ 44.64
Imperial... ....................... No. 390 .... James H. Morgan, Sr. Warden ........ 67.80

West Lake .................•.... N o. 392 .... Robert C. Allison, Master................ 43.08
Guy F. Bush, Sr. Warden
Walter L. Berger, Past Master ........ 43.08
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Chas. E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Wm. T. Osterholt, Past Master
Balder ..............................No. 393 .... Adolph W. Buschke, Master
Ingemar E. Hoberg, Jr. Warden
Fred J. Boehm, Past Master
F. 0. Sjogren, Past Master
N. S. Stohl, Past Master
John 0. Hansen, Past Master
Chas. G. Johnson, Past Master
University .......................No. 394.... Robert Wm. Emmert, Master.......... 43.08
Amasa H. Lyman, Sr. Warden
Turlock. .......................... No. 395 .... Robert J. Hill, Master........................ 8.40
Harry 0. Carlson, Past Master and
Inspector ············································. 8.~0
Apollo ............................. .N o. 396.... John Jos. Delaney, Master
John D. Lambert, Jr. Warden
Rising Light................... No. 397.... Walter David Piper, Master ............ 43.88
Fraternity............. ,......... No. 399 .... Richard D. Lang, Sr. Warden.......... 3.48
Ralph Emerson Weaver, Jr. Warden
Burlingame .....................No. 4-00 .... Arthur A. Burlingame, Master........ 1.20
Werner Wm. Stahl, Sr. Warden
Patrick P. R. Rorke, Jr. Warden
Wm. Wilkin, Past Master
Samuel Leslie Ha~ken,· Past Master
and Inspector ...................................... 1.20
Chas. Jacob Orman, Past Master
Bay View ........................ No. 401.. .. Elmer Wm. Hickman, Master
Robert B. Walden, Sr. Warden
Dante R. Blade, Jr. Warden
Fred Wm. Wetmore, Past Master
Charles Kimble, Past Master

782

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bra-wley...........................N·o, 402.... Richard H, Wellington, Master ...... 66.84
Percy E. Palmer, Sr, Warden
George Roy Butters, jr, Warden
John Irelan, Past Master.................... 66.84
Yerba Butth!.................. No. 403....Chas. E. Powell, Past Master and
Representative
Preston E . Snook, Past Master
Tutner McAllaster, Past Master
and Inspector
Glendora......................,.. ~ o. 404.... Roland J . Reed, Sr. Warden:........... 45.12

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

783

Lindsay........................... No. 416.... Edward V. Bogart, Master.............. 24.36
Adna H. Askin, Sr. Warden
Clovis.............................. No. 417....Carl Foster, Sr. Warden.................. 21.00
Elysian............................ No. 418.... Franklin L. Knox, Master................ 43.08
John P. Filbert, Sr. Warden
Robert F. Callender, Past Master
Upland............................ No. 419.... Roy Creighton, Sr. Warden ............ 46.08
Kerman........................... No. 420.... B. W. Kilby, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 13.20

Burbank.......................... No. 406.... Herbert Stanton Sprinkle, Master.. 42.36
Leon Earl Rope, Sr. Warden

lnglewood.......................No. 421....Edward S. Lawrence, Master............ 45.16
Kenneth R. Cresswell, Sr. Warden
Fred R. Pardee, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 45.16

La Mesa.......................... No. 407....Harry M. Fisher, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 55.64

Eagle Rock. ....................No. 422.... Glenn George Spires, Master............ 43.98
George E . Winther, Sr. Warden

Moneta.............................;.J°o, 405.... Lawrence F. Norton, Master............ 43.08

Sierra Madre ................. No. 403....John Buchan, Master.......................... 44.04
H onoll!lu.......................:.No. 409.... Lindon L. Lynch, Jr. Warden ............250.00
Charter Rock. ................ No. 410 .... Ernest S. Page, Master
William C. Juergens, Sr. Warden
William D. Wisdom, Jr. Warden
Thomas H. Beatty, Past Master
George L. Sargent, Past Master
Henry R. Braden, Past Master
A. L. Patterson, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Lawrence Reed Chilcote, Past
Master
Perris.................:............ No. 411....Frederick Wm. Newport, Master.. .. 48.82
Calexico..............:...........No. 412....Robett Wm. Hatton, Master............ 65.22
John P . Duncan, Sr. Warden

York. ............................... No. 423....John Louis Sherrin, Master............ 43.08
Exeter............................. No. 424.... F. Earl Mixter, Master.................... 23.88
Frank Mixter, Past Master and
Deputy Grand Master...................... 23.88
Holtville......................... .No. 425 .... Dale G. Cooper, Master...................... 65.92
Walter M. Williams, Sr. Warden
James R. Snyder, Jr. Warden
C. H . Eckert, Past Master and
Senior Grand Deacon...................... 65.92
Midway...........................No. 426.... Russel A. Johnson, Master............ 33.78
J. M. Munroe, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 33.78
Chino Valley.................. No. 427....John C. LeClaire, Master................ 45.96

Waucoba ..·.......................No. 413.... Charles A. Anderson, Sr. Warden.... 58.72

San Dimas............~ ......... No. 428.... Harry J. Smead, Sr. Warden .......... 45.24
Arthur E. Tangeman, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 45.24

Arlington........................ No. 414.... C. E. Colt, Sr. Warden.................... 43.08
S. C. Briggs, Past Master

Pittsburg.........................No. 429.... William A. Buzacott, Master............ 3.60
Archie V. McFaul, Past Master

Silver Trowel.. .............. No. 415....]ohn C. Cook, Master.......................... 43.08
Homer C. Green, Sr. Warden
Wm. F. King, Past Master

McCloud .........................N o. 430.... Ernest A. Flathmann, Sr. Warden 32.46
Arnold B. Straub, Past Master

784

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GHAND LOUGE OF CALIFORNIA

785

· A}pha..._. ..........:....c.••••••...No. 431....Homer Wm. Patterson, Master........ 1.20
John Wm. Lee, Sr. Warden
Franc C. Shallenberger, Jr. Warden
John McGrath, Past Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master
Wm. P . Self, Past Master
Everett C. Lambrecht, Past Master
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master

Wilshire..........................No. 445....LeRoy Carman, Master...................... 43.08
Edgar E. Mason, Sr. Warden
Frank B . Belcher, Past Master........ 43.08
Will H. Fischer, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08

Maricopa.........................No. 434....Guy C. Hall, Jr. Warden.................. 33.42

Torrance......................... No.447.... 0scar · E. Fossum, Jr. Warden........ 44.28

Fairmount...................... No. 435..:.George Raymond Switzer, Master
Ralph Wm. McDonald, Sr. Warden
Fred Abbott Watkins, Jr. Warden
George W. Gerhard, Past Master
Denman Wagstaff, Past Master
George Pollitt, Past Master
,,
Ivan T. Crase, Past. Master
Peter A. De Vries, Past Master
Rudolph 111ing, Past Master
Henry T. W arwood, Past Master

Mount Diablo.................No. 448....W illiam Charlesworth, Master........ 3.24
John A. Kasch, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 4.20

<lilaremonL....................No 436....Myron F . Powell, Sr. Warden.......... 45.72
I,ancaster........................No. 437....Hugh Griffith, Sr. Warden .............. 37.42
J. W. Smiley, Past Master

Van Nuys ....................... No. 450....Thomas E. Cleland. Master .. _............ 43.08
Fred C. Morgan, Past Master
Herbert W. Walker, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 41.88

Acacia ....,.............,..........No. 438....Henry Stockmann, Master................ 43.08
Arthur Schramm, Sr. Warden
Otto K. Werner, Past Master

Montebello......................No. 451....Absalom D. Hollis, Master.............. 43.08

Tyrian............................. No. 439.... Andrew J. Whitaker, Sr. Warden.. 6.24
Standard......................... No. 440.... Henry Wm. Pleitner, Master
·
Chas. B. Olds, Sr. Warden
DeMille Morgan Campbell,
Jr. Warden
John E . Brunzell, Past Master
Coronado........................No. 441....Willard A. Lindgren, Master............ 55.76
Blackmer........................ No. 442.... William P . Kemper, Master............ 55.64
Theodore R. Smith, Jr. Warden
I..loyd E. Griffin, Past Master
Warren E. Libby, Past Master
Schofield .......................:. No. 443....Charles Drummond Rea, Master......250.00
Carpinteria.......:............. No. 444....Merton F. Lewis, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 36.36

La Puente....................... No. 446....Lance D. Smith, Master.................... 44.52
Hubert W. Adams, Jr. Warden

Park.................................No. 449....C. D. Rutter, Sr. Warden
John Ferguson, Past Master
Albert W. Stokes, Past Master
Foster G. Dyer, Past Master and
Inspector
Arthur W . Brouillet, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master

San Pasqual... ................ No. 452....William C. Oglesby, Master .............. 44.04
Donald G. White, Sr. Warden
Bethlehem...................... No. 453 ....John C. Painter, Master
Lloyd Hummel, Jr. Warden
Eli M. Blanford, Past Master
Leighton F. Stewart, Past Master
Charles M. Green, Past Master
Charles K. Harper, Past Master
Crocker......................- ...No. 454....James G. Allan, Master
.
John Mitchell, Sr. Warden
James Layne, Past Master
Joseph Swan, Past Master
Andrew M. McKeown, Past Master
George Watson, Past Master
Robert Hall Turner, Past Master

786

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Golden West. ................. No. 455....Ernest E . Gable, Master
Clarence V. Farley, Sr. Warden
George W. Middleton, Past Master
George R. Zuckerman, Past Master
George E. Chapin, Past Master
Ramona ...........................No. 457.... Edward L. Nieman, Master............ 43.68
Robert Fulton, Sr. Warden
Wilbert J . Stewart, Past Master
and Inspector· .................................... 43.68
Henry S. Orme..............N o. 458....Allen I. Knickrehm, Master............ 43.08
Lewis D. Collings, Sr. Warden
George Davidson, Grand Chaplain.. 43.08
Riverbank. ......................No. 459.... Lester A. Barnes, Sr. Warden.......... 7.92
Mount Oso......................No. 460....Henry D. Mullally, Jr. Warden...... 5.00

Libertas...........................No. 466....Clyde Norman Hislop, Master........ 29.J4
Gerald T . Fowler, Sr. Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Jr. Warden
Arthur E . O verton, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 29.34
William A. Eardley, Past Master
Rockridge.......................No. 468....Douglas G. Montell, Master
Fred G. Switzer, Sr. Warden
Fred Templeton, Past Master
George W. Miller, Past Master
C. W. Campbell, Past Master
W. W. Shea, Past Master
Yorba Linda...................No. 469....Ross B. J ohnson, Master .................. 45.00
George F. Plumb, Sr. Warden

Argonaut... ...................:..No. 461.. ..Addison B. Collins, Master
Joseph Bernard, Sr. Warden
Daniel M. Coulter, Jr. Warden
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
J ohn A. Evans, Past Master
Cnas. A. Rice, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
J oseph A. Blackford, Past Master
Walter H . Downing, Past Master
Sigfried Pets, Past Master
Harry P. Rothermel, Past Master
H omer P . Thyle, Past Master

Lincoln............................ No. 470.... George S. McCullough, Master
George A. Hannan, Sr. Warden
James C. Wilder, Past Master
Alexander L. High, Past Master
Leslie E. Garren, Past Master
David E. Wolf, Past Master
Arthur J oel, Past Master

Paul Revere....................No. 462....Jacob Wm. Warshaw, Master
Oscar Wm. Sandstrom, Sr. Warden
John G. Oslin, Jr. Warden
Wm. A. Gerder, Past Master
Edwin L. Kickhofel, Past Master

Victory............................No. 474....James B. Waugh, Master
Max M. Alexander, Past Master
G. L. Halik, Past Master

Morgan Hill...................No. 463....Robert S. Robinson, Master............ 4.92
Alta Vista ....................... No. 464....Ernest V. Brown, Master
Arthur E . Hewit, Sr. Warden
James Hutcheon, Jr. Warden
Robert D. Brown, Past Master
H. L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Center......................"........No. 465 ....Ernest Jenner, Master........................ 20.04
William Glass, Sr. Warden

787

Delta ................................No. 471....Paul E . Lewis, Master...................... 6.12
J ohn A. Rogers, Sr. W arden
Archibald L. Luck, Jr. Warden
Maui................................ No. 472....Marquis F . Calmes, Master..............266.76

America ...........................No. 475 ....Victo r E. Johnson, Master.............. 43.08
William A. Schreider, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 43.08
Coachella........................ No. 476.... Hubert L. Cavanagh, Sr. Warden .. 59.88
Temblor.......................... No. 477....Roy D. Morris, Master ...................... 34.38
Thousand Oaks..............No. 478....Harry Pughe, Master
Leroy V . Hitchcock, Past Master
Golden Rule ....................No. 479.... H erbert F. Fisher, Master................ 3.48
Joseph C. Broekken, Past Master

788

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fellowship...................... No. 480 .... Alvin N. Lubold, Master
Walter W. Madison, Sr; Warden
F . Wm. Schubkegel, Jr. Warden
John B. Warner, Past Master
Chas. F. Nichols, Past Master

789

Atascadero ..................... No. 493 .... Bernard W. Pennington, Master...... 16.20
.
Fred C. Hess, Past Master

Mt. Davidson ................. No. 481.. .. Arthur M. Warren, Master
Alfred Harris Nicoll, Sr. Warden
Jos: H. Jorgenson, Jr. Warden
Thomas" F. Quinn, Past Master ·
Hugh E. Oliphant, Past Master

Acorn...............................No. 494.:.. Harry B. Wells, Master
'
Joseph L. Miserez, Jr. Warden
Arthur R. McPhail, Past Master
Chas. M. Herkenham, Past Master
Irvin L. Grader, Past Master
Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Reginald V. Jaste, Past Master

Clarence F. Smith ......... N o. 482 .... Everett Chas. Zies, Master_ ............. 43.08
William A. Wilson, Sr. Warden
Frank G. Falloon, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08

Lebanon .......................... No. 495 .... Louis Sockolov, Master
George T. Black, Past Master
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Roy R. Shaulberg, Past Master

Bell...................................No. 483 .... Duncan Sova, Master .......................... 43.08

Riverdale ........................ No. 496 .... Zeno L. Cornwell, Master ................ 21.60

Albert Pike ..................... No. 484 .... Edwin Mason Holly, Sr. Warden .... 43.08

Fremont... ....................... No. 497 .... Robert M. Sharp, Master
Albert E. Gracie, Sr. Warden
Cyrus L. Rossi, Jr. Warden
Chester C. Morris, Past Master and
Inspector

Caledonia ........................ No. 486 ....George Russel Grubb, Master.......... 29.34
George McHugh, Sr. Warden
Norval D. Cleghorn, Past Master
Clyde E. Mallachowitz, Past Master
Vallejo ............................ No. 487 ....Harry M. Rowe, Master.................... 2.40
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master
Frederic B. Hall, Past Master
Patterson ........................ No. 488.... Hyrum J. Martinson, Master............ 7.08
George L. Bettencourt, Sr. Warden
East Bay ......................... No. 489 .... John Henry Bertram, Master
Clifford B. Marker, Sr. Warden
Grant V. Wallace, Jr. Warden
Roy D. Parkinson, Past Master and
Inspector
Corcoran •........................ No. 490.... Harry S. Hurlburt, Master_ ............. 23.46
Woodstock ......................No. 491....Layton A. Choice, Master
Chas. J. Rundstrom, Jr. Warden
R. W. Parkinson, Past Master
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
E.G. Hathaway, Past Master

Garvan~a ........................ .N o. 492 .... Chas. 0. Zimmerman, Master .......... 43.08
Edward S. Houghton, Sr. Warden
Earl Thaxter, Past Master

Stockton ..........................No. 498 .... Edgar D. Young, Master.................. 6.12
Hy Greenberg, Sr. Warden
Capital City .................... No. 499 .... Benj. W. Hathaway, Master............ 6.48
Rooseve!L ..................... No. 500.... Edward T. Kelly, Master
Otto Carl Huth, Sr. Warden
Nils E. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Louis Ferrari, Past Master
Joseph Scannell, Past Master
Westwood ...................... No. 501....Herbert A. Smith, Master ................_ 32.12
Harbor ............................ No. 502.... Lewis Jones. Master............................
Thomas A. Deadrich, Sr. Warden

1.20

Point ......... :......................No. 503 .... Alfred S. Petersen, Master..............
George F. Imbach, Sr. Warden
Chas. E. Bennett, Jr. Warden

1.20

Seaside ............................ No. 504.... Melvin R. Berbower, Master ............ 44.64
Wm. T. Corbusier, Sr. Warden
Silver Cord .................... .N o. 505....Ralph E. Graves, Master.................. 45.48
Cassius E. Paul, Sr. Warden
Mount O!ive ...................No. 506... .Ivan E. Silvera, Master .................... 43.08
Zaracrois Rodriquez, Sr. Warden

7l/O

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

791

Fl St>guudo.....................No. 507.... Anders D. McKenzie, Master.......... 44.28
Joppa ............................... No. 503....G. R. Chaney, Representative.......... 19.32
Beniamm
· · F ran kl 1'n ....••. No • 509....Donald Dale Cunliff, Master............ 43.08
Karl N. Eckers, Sr. Warden
Cupertino........................ No. 510.... Clarence Lester Rich, Master.......... 3.38
·
Walter C. Hecox, Sr. Warden
John Montgomery, Jr. Warden
Glenn L. Allen, Past Master
Sunnyvale ....................... No. 511.. .. Hiram Nelson Bishop, Master........ 2.88
William J . Blanken, Sr. Warden
Geo. E. Hartwell, Past Master
Francis L. McAdam, Past Master

Bellflower...,.:................. No. 523....Camden L. Wilmoth, Master.......... 44.40
Erich H. Fredericks, Sr. Warden
Wm. E . G. Chalmers, Jr. Warden
Catalina Island ..............No. 524....Philip Sydney Allen, Master............ 47.58
Percy E. Mackey, Sr. Warden
George Washington......No. 525....John Johnston, Sr. Warden
Ralph E . Price, Jr. Warden
.Kenneth A. W oodin, Past Master
Bay City..........................No. 526.... Louis Stein, Master
Milton Davis, Past Master
Edgar Meyer, Past Master
Covenant.........................No. 527.... Harry Norman Pennebaker,

Palms .............................. No. 512....Archie E. King, Master.................... 44.28
Cahuenga........................ No. 513 .... W. Gail Cave, Master........................ 43.08
Argonne..........................No. 514....Clar~nce A. Nelson, Master
Sam H . Hardin, Jr. Warden
John H. Turner, Past Master
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
and Grand Marshal
Vermont Square............ No. 515 .... William R. Wadsworth, Jr. Master 43.08
Frank Shirley, Sr. Warden
J. Ward Cunningham, Past Master
Taft................................. No. 516....Louis L. Marsh, Master.................... 33.78
Mount Vernon ............... No. 517.... Harold Wm. Chaunce, Master
Arthur Chas. Maguire, Sr. Warden
La Jolla........................... No. 518....Albert Wm. Bennett, Master.......... 55.64
Samuel T. Gillespie, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 55.64
Eucl:d.............................. No. 519.... &lwin C. Hickey, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08
James T . Montano, Past Master
Ionic..................:............. No. 520.... Benjamin Jos. Moss, Master............ 43.08
Isador Moore, Sr. Warden
Piedmont ........................ No. 521....Herbert S. Shuey, Master
Charles C. Crosby, Sr. Warden
Sunrise............................No. 522....Edw. E. Hollingsworth, Sr. Warden 43.0S

Beverly Hills..................No. 528....Noah C. Peters, Master.................... 43.08
Jacob L. Hegler, Sr. Warden
Loyalty............................No. 529.... Harry C. Rocque, Master.................. 43.08
J oseph A. Visger, Jr. Warden
Sun Garden .....................No. 530....E)mer B. Thompson, Sr. Warden .... 20.04
Alexandria..................... No. 531....Stewart H . Hook, Master
Kenneth F. Cable, Sr. Warden
Frank G. H obbs, Past Master and
Asst. Grand Secretary
Philip L. Chase, Past Master
F. B. McAtee, Past Master
Smyrna........................... No. 532.... Charles B. Sloan, Master.................. 7.80
Azure..............................No. 533.... Fred Livingston, Master .................... 44.88
Howard E. Carley, Sr. Warden
Forest Hill..................... N o. 534....Chester Wm. Johnson, Master
Louis Jos. Douat, Sr. Warden
Oscar W. Britt, Jr. Warden
Alexander Hamilton.... No. 535.... Winfred C. Deister, Jr. Warden...... 43.08
Seal Rock.......................No. 536.... Edwin W . Bode, Past Master
John K. Wright, Past Master
Milo Bohall, Past Master
Utopia..............................No. 537.... Lee Roy Gay, Master........................ 43.08
William Bald, Sr. Warden
Fred T. Purdy, Past Master

792

PltUL:!!;iJ;ULNllS OF 'J'HE

Ascot............................... No. 538....Lloyd R. Reeve, Master.................... 43.08
Samuel Lythgoe, Sr. Warden
Belvedere........................ No. 539....]ohn B. McLarty, Master~ ............... 43.08
Perry P. Long, Sr. Warden
Elton A. Randolph, Jr. Warden
Queen Beach .................. No. 540....George Harry Tyler, Master............ 44.64
James L. Kennerly, Past Master
Henry Morse Stephens No. 541....Theodore E. Ralston, Master
Joseph D. Fairchild, Sr. Warden
Joseph L. Banville, Past Master
Val Arntzen, Past Master
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
E. A. Reinke, Past Master
Lankershim .................... No. 542....Chalmer H. Lyon, Master................ 42.24
Signal.............................. No. 543....Louis G. Harvey, Master................ 44.64
Edward K. Hurlburt, Sr. Warden
Glendale.......................... No. 544....Ralph W . Martin, Sr. Warden........ 43.68
Jonathan......................... No. 545 ....David N. Neal, Master
Herbert E. Stone, Past Master
San Gabriel... ................. No. 546....Frank L. Berg, Master ........................ 43.80
Arcadia ........................... No. 547....Wood Glover, Master........................ 44.28
Triangle.......................... No. 548....James E. Douglas, Master.............. 44.64
Clark W. Older, Sr. Warden
Frank Nurse, Jr. Warden
Justice.........•................... No. 549.... Hall Slocumb. Master
Ralph 0. Biedenbach, Jr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Hans C. Christiansen, Past Master
Seaport.........:.".................No. 550.... Ernest B. Shaw, Master
Arthur H . DeGuire, Sr. Warden
John S. Alpers, Past Master
John G. Wullschleger, Past Master
Louis C. Muller, Past Master
Walter H. E. Von Konsky, Past
Master
Otto A. Holtzer, Past Master
James ]. Yates, Past Master

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

·793

Lakeshore...... ;................ No. 551 .... Wellman Johnson, Master
John R. McKalip, Sr. Warden .
John L. Sale, Jr. 'Warden
J. R. Wood, Past Master
T. M. Lewis, Past Master
Semper Virens.......:.......No. 552....William N . Speegle, Master....:.......:: 29.40
Educator...,......:... _;.:....,.No. 554.....Gene C. Otwell, Master
Chester W. Paterson, Sr. Warden
Fulton S. Lee, Jr. Warden
F. E. Lewis, Past Master
W . C. Leavitt, Past Master
J.- H. Jorgensen, Past Master
White Pine............:........ No. 555....Jack W. Goddard, Master............:..... 30.90
Fairfax............. ."..'........ :...No. 556....Frank Happersberger, Jr., Master.. 1.32
'
·
Ralph C. Carr, Sr. Warden
Wm. H. W. Stine, Past Master
Hermosa..................:...... No. 557..:.E. Virgil Wahlberg, Sr. Warden:..... 44;64
Point Fir~in."., ...~.::........ No. 558.... Fred A. Simons, Master.................... 44.64
Arthur V. Anderson, Sr. Warden
Albert S. Crossfield, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 44.52
Craftsmen....:..... :....,...... No. 559....Thomas Holmes, Master.................... 43.08
··
· L. Keith Askew, Jr. Warden
Plymouth........................No. 560.... Herbert A. Adams, Jr. Warden
Chas. K. Boxley, Past Master
?ast San Diego.......,..... No. 561....Mearl L. Baker, Sr. Warden._ ...·.... 55.64
Pyramid........:········,··.······No. 562....Thomas E. Harris,. Master
Clifford R. Ward, Sr. Warden
E. J. Portello, Past Master
South Park.............:·:.......No. 563.... Harold ·E. Green, Master................... 43.08
·
· ·
Newton D. }figh, Sr. Warden
Joel H. Frederickson, Jr. Warden
fQ<)thill... ......... ,..,.,,........ No. ·564....Lawrence M. Osbbrn, Master
Harry C. Jordan, Sr. Warden
Martin C. Ketels, Jr. Warden
Wm. M. Jensen, Past Master
B. S. ·Small, Past Master · .
B. J. Hoffman, Past Master
William Henry Follrath, Past
Master

trnAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

795

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

794

West A<lams.................. No. 565.... Walter R. Allen, Master.................... 43.08
James A. Gatfield..........No. 566.... Halcott N. Thomas, Master.............. 43.08
Warren E. Carey, Sr. Warden
Walter V. Empie, Jr. Warden
. ht ......................No. 567.... David Perkins, Master...................... 44.64
Blaine S. Posten, Sr. Warden
George G. Hutton, Jr. Warden

Sea£chi1g

Park Boulevard ............. No. 568.... John McSweyn, Master
William D. Ingraham, Sr. Warden
James E. Hammond, Past Master
John McEwing, Past Master
Chateau Thierry............No. 569 ....Ralph M. :Smith, Master
Carl \V. Hagstrom, Sr. Warden
Chas. Veale, Jr. Warden
William C. Heim, Past Master
Military Service............ No. 570.... Lloyd F. DeWitt, Master
Frank L. Lambertson, Sr. Warden
Lovett M. Nichols, Past Master
August Siedler, Past Master
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck..... No. 571....Frederick W. McCollough, Master
Maurice E. Post, Sr. Warden
Leonard Castlio, Past Master
Ralph Boyd, Past Master
Gilbert B. Ocheltree, Past Master

Pro,gressive.................... No. 578.... Darrel W. Rosecrans, Master.......... 43.08
Seymour D. Crour, Sr. Warden
Warren J. Har<ling...... .No. 579....Peter A. Stenberg................................ 6.48
Santa Maria................... No. 580....Walter L. Logan, Master.................. 57.38
Security.......................... No. 581....Earl R. Gilbert, Master .................... 29.34
Ludwig F . Diebel, Sr. Warden
Frederick H. Neergard, Jr. Warden
Rialto ...............................N o. 582....Frederick Wm. Reuss. Master........ 47.16
Nels R. Benson, Sr. Warden
Wasco ..............................N o. 583.... Clarence A. Campbell, Sr. W arden .. 27.70
H11rding.......................... No 584....Floyd Van Hickman, Sr. Warden .... 43.08
Manchester .....................No. 585 ....Charles A. Allen, Master.................. 43.08
Garden Grove................ No. 586....Ernest S. Littlejohn, Master ............ 44.76
Vall11y F orge ..................No. 5S7.... Edgar Nern, Master.......................... 43.08
R. H. Chandler, Sr. Warden
El Sereno.. ~ .................... No. 588.... Albert F . Kuhnle, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08
Kauai...:..·:···....................No. 589....Howard B. West, Sr. Warden........272.00
Compass..........................Ne. 590....William E. May, Master.................. 45.60
John F. Boileau, Sr. Warden
Escalon............................No. 591....Fred John Gushe, Master................ 7.56

James Madison.............. No. 572....William V. Greer, Master.................. 43.08

Tujunga.......................... No. 592. ~.. Charles Martin Abarta, Master ...... 42.60
Robert R. Hendrix, Sr. Warden
Sefred E. Johnson, Jr. Warden

Hillc:rest..........................No. 573....Warren H. Pillsbury, Master
Ralph R. Vawter, Sr. Warden

All States........................No. 593.... Anler L. Kelgard, Master ................ 44.64
Thomas A. Gregory, Sr. Warden

S. W. Hackett................No. 574....Lloyd J. Learn, Master...................... 55.10
Bruce L. Cushman,.Sr. Warden
B. H. Prentiss, Past Master

Service............................ No. 594....George A. Richards, Master............ 44.64
James A. Lynch, Past Master
Alexander Graham
Jkll .............................. No. 595 .... Clarence R. Hiatt, Master................ 43.08

Fort Crook..................... No. 575.... S. F. Smith, Jr. Warden .................... 34.12
Otho Stewart, Past Master
H.B. Wanzer, Past Master

Guardian.........................No. 596.... Albert J. Ammann, Master.............. 43.08

Truth .... .,..,.,,..,.,..............No. 597....William C. Richards, Master............ 43.08

El Cajon Valley............No. 576.... Rexford L. Hall, Master.................. 56.70

Pe;i.rl H:arbor................. No. 598....Fred H. Groehler, Jr. Warden........25-0.00

Sunnyside....................... No. 577....F. Wesley Davies, Master.................. 43.08
Carl F. Olsen, Sr. Warden

Carmeli.ta........................ No. 599.... William Frank H oltz, Master........ 44.04

796

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lyn~ood .........:...........:...No. 600....Ulus Clinger Miller, Master............ 43.68

Big Bear......................... No. 617....Rodney V. Wright, Sr. Warden .. :... 59.78

Crizzly............................ No. 601....Leroy Beik, Sr. Warden.................... 29.46
··
Alfred M. Waite, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................. 29.46

Southland ....................... No. 618.... Clifford D. Sandland, Jr. Warden .. 43.08
'
Wm. L. Hovis, Past Master and
Inspector ...................,........................ 43.08

Mdrose........................... No. 602....Ralph Adair Hix, Master................ 43.08
]. Lynn Goode, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08

Neptune...........................No. 619.... Percy Hanewickel, Master .............. 44.64

DimQnd.....................:·····No. 603 .... Carlton Walter Seely, Master
Frederic E. Smith, Sr. Warden
Clark B. Stroud, Jr. Warden
Frederick Smith, Past Master

Atwater...........................No. 622.... Paul Allan Woods, Master................ 43.08

Jubilee ....... :...............:..... No. 604....E. N. Owen, Sr. Warden.................. 45.48
Glassell Park................. N o. 605 ....Charles H. Blake, Master .................. · 43.08
Sojourner......................,.No. 607....Glenn P . Hollingsworth, Sr. Warden 44.40
Cra1i::da........................:.l\o. 608....Erosco Chester Woodard, Master.. 43.68
·
Kent P. Stone, Sr. Warden
Warren D. Gill, Past Master and
·
Grand Pursuivant ..........................:. 43.68

797

Point Lema.................... No. 620.... William E. Nelson, Master .............. 55.64

Menorah......................... No. 623....James Robertson, Master.................. 43.08
Nathan Hagen, Sr. Warden
Fortitude.........................No. 624....Bradford N. Newman, Master
Tracy·E. Clark, Sr. Warden
Hector A. LeGault, Jr. Warden
Frank Ziegler, Past Master
Andrew H. Van Eck, Past Master
Edward L. Steele, Past Master
Frederick L. Shaw, Past Master

..

Angeles Mesa.................No. 625 .... Herschel· Leroy Blewett, Master...... 43.08
Edward L. Tobias, Sr. Warden

P;ovident............. ~......... N~. 609....Leslie E. Wood, Past Master and ·
Inspector ............................................ 6.48
Frank S. Curtis, Representative........ 6.48

Chula Vista.................... No. 626....Charles · E. Smith, Master................ 56.24
Austin M. Fuller, Sr. Warden

Elmhurst...............,.........No. 610.... George R. Peters, Master
Julius E. Hood, Sr. Warden
Elvin } .. Lewis, Jr. Warden
Owensmouth..................No. 611....Herbert W. Allen, Master................ 41.28
Arthur L. Kau.p, Sr. Warden
Temple City.................. ,.N~. 612....Clyde E. Johnson, Master................ 43.08
Henry F. Ar:toine, Sr. Warden
~

. .

Three Pillars...·.......,.......No. 613....Charles E. Frazier, Master.............. 6.48
Herbert G. Pink, Sr. Warden

La~~hmont... ................"...No. 614....Arthur Pierce Pratt, Master............ 43.08
Jesse]. Boswell, Sr. Warden
George P. Salm, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Hemet..................c, ..........No. 615.... Alexander Watt, Master.................... 50.56
Seal Beach......................No. 616... .Irvin C. Smith, Sr. Warden ............ 44.40

Lamanda Park............... No. 627.... Clinton R. Webster, Sr. Warden.... 44.04
Chas. E. Church, Past Master
Beacon of the West.......No. 628....]oseph George Baker, Sr. Warden .. 43.08
Fairview......................... No. 629.... Arthur W. Billings, Master.............. 45.16
Wm. Claud Hudnall, Sr. Warden
Ingleside......................... No. 630.... Mont E. Henderson, Master
Adam H. Krage!, Sr. Warden
<• • • •
Wm. W. Bovyer, Jr. Warden
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Master and
Inspector
George H. B. Wright, Past Master
Benevolence................... No. 631.. .. Myron A. Hatfield, Master.............. 43.08
Howard E. Bohannon, Jr. Warden
Normal Heights ............No. 632....Leland L. Pickering, Master............ 55.64
Clyde M. Thompson, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 55.64

798

l'kOCEEDINGS OP- THE

Poinsettia ....................... No. 633 .... Arthur T. Mead, Master.................... 37.56
Royace A. Maddox, Sr. Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

La Brea...........................No. 650....William W . Wedding,MMastter.......... 43.08

Wm. H. Parcels, Past as er
Wm. T. Wheeling, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 42.60

Victorville...................... No. 634....James A. Farrington, Master ............ 47.28
Riverside .........................No. 635 ....Charles R. Dyer, Master.................. 47.28
Earl John Lamke, Sr. Warden
Thomas F. Flaherty, Jr. Warden
John Marshall ................No. 636....Robert A. Wm. Bultman, Master.... 43.0S
Palisades.........................No. 637 ... .James Matthews, Jr. Warden ........ 44.64
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
J. A. Jackson, Past Master
Indian Rock ....................No. 638....Theodore E. Glazier, Master
Frederick G. Phelps, Jr. Warden
Fred T. Herrick, Past Master
Henry W. Carlson, Past Master
Arthur N. Hall, Past Master
C'omposite.......................No. 639.... Hugo Freed, Master.......................... 43.08

I P k
B. Hardy,
Hunnell,
2.20
Men o ar .................... N o. 651....Tillman
John Ross
Sr.Master..............
Warden
Reginald Milward, Jr. Warden
Crescenta Va IIey........... No. 652... .Albert E. Hansen, .Sr. Warden...... 43.08
Fcmtana...........................No. 653.... William M. Caldwell, Master.......... 46.92
Jordan............................. No. 654.... Raymond A. Stalcup, WMasdter.......... 43.08
Charles H. Burge, 8 r. ar en
Ben Wood, Jr. Warden
Carl J. Johnson, Past Master
M

Master
................ 44.64
ante V.ista....................N o. 655 .... Verne
Arthur W.
LeeOlinger,
Jones, Sr.
Warden
Lawrence H . Corrigan, Jr. Ward_en
Edward w. Hecker, Past Master

Veritas ............................ No. 640....Ira H. Larsen, Master
Albert J. Callahan, Sr. Warden
Percy F. Hiller, Jr. Warden
Leonard S. Leavy, Past Master and
Inspector
Louis T. Cranz, Past Master
James A. Foshay........... No. 641....Theodore R. Pialsgraf, Master........ 43.08
La CumhJ'e......................No. 642.... W. W. McKee, Representative and
Past Master........................................ 34.02
Alta Loma...................... No. 643....Arthur Wm. Pease, Representative
and Past Master.............................. 44.64
Lomita.........,...................No. 644.... Norman Percy Herr, Sr. Warden.. 43:08
A. F. E. Irwin................ No. 645.... Arthur E. Genter, Master.................. 44.64
Orrin P. Lookinland, Sr. Warden

Metropolitan.................. No. 646....George Eisen, Representative and
Past Master ........................................ 43.08

799

Citrol... .............................No. 656 .... Hugh H. Jones, Master.................... 44.64
I
No. 657 ....Robert White Brackett, Master........ 55.64
J o hn D. S preckes.........

L 1vmg
. . sto11...................... No· 658.... Elgin Evans, Master............................ 9.12
La

H b
HarlanW.
Hodges,
.................... 43.08
a ra ........................ N o . 659....James
Weaver,Master
Sr. Warden

Baldwin Park.................No. 660 ....Raymond A. Wallin, Sr. Warden .... 43.08
Malta............................... No · 661....T. D. Bruce, Master.......................... 43.08
Henry Knox...................N o. 662....Jesse Franklin Brown, Master........ 43.08
Ojai...................,...........".No. 663....Berkeley Brandt, Representative
39 12
and Past Master.............................. ·

. ................................No. 664.... Otto Jos. Bradshaw, Maste.r .........;.. 68.16
Oasis
Kaweah...........................No. 665.... Wm. Lawrence Starns, Sr. Warden 23.88

Ifawthorne.....................No. 647.... Clifford W. Fraser, Sr. Warden...... 43.08

Reseda .............................N o. 666····Thomas Benton Turner, Master ...... 43.08

Damascus ........................No. 648....Guy Lester Chambers, Master.......... 47.28

. .
No. 667···· Robert T. Lawson, Master............'.... 43.98
Mer1d1an.........................

Floren.ce..........................No. 649 ....Claude Howdeshelt, Master.............. 43.56

.
N o. 668····Orville C· Purpus
San Gorgomo................
.
' Sr. Warden........ 49.44

800

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALlFORNIA

801

John P . Jarman ............. No. 669....Clarence E. Sheffer, Master .............. 3.48
Eber E. Carter, Sr. Warden
Harry F. Reidker, Jr. Warden
Herbert Pritchard, Past Master
Greenleaf...:····················No. 670.... Ray E. Berry, Master......................... 44.52
San Cl ement e.................No. 671....Thomas
· ·
C. Murphine Jr.,
Sr. Warden ...................................... 48.32
Laguna Beach................ No. 672....Don L. Helwig, S;. W ard en............ 47.60
Far West.. .....................No. 673.... Louis A. Gintzler, Master
Albert S. Sandell, Sr. Warden
Dean Wilson, Past Master
Howard 0. Taylor, Past Master
Los Cerritos ...................No. 674.... Louis Goldsmith, Master.................:.. 44.64
·
Herbert C. Goldman, Past Master
and_ Senior Grand Steward............ 44.64
Modesto..........................·No. 675....Frank C. Shaw, Master...................... 7.44
Willow Glen
· . N o. 676....H arry Burres, · Master
. ···················

3.48
Wm. B. Puterbaugh, S·;:··-w~;d~~ ....
Almer Wm. Laederich, Jr. Warden
Thornton D. Webster, Past Master
Liberal Arts
·N 6 7 I F
········:·········· o. 7 ···· ra . Thompson, Master............- .... 43.08
.

~l~adena...~ ..................:.. No. 678.... William J. Stone, Master.................. 44.04.

.. , At 5 :45 o'dock . Grand Lodg.e wa·s . c·ailed
off until '°lO
o'cfock Friday morning.

...: · '
·1

·1

Morning Session
Friday, October 16, 1931.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.
ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The Grand Master announced that pursuant to the requirements of section . 17 of the Constitution, the annual
election of officers of Grand Lodge was now in order.
Tellers were appointed, and the following was the result
of the election :
The R.". W.". Robert B. Gaylord of Oakland Lodge No. 188
was elected Grand Master.
R.". W .". Frank Mixter of Exeter Lodge N o. 424 was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". W.". James B. Gist of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 was
elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W.". William A. Sitton of Washington Lodge No. 20 was
elected Junior Grand Warden.
.. V.". W.". William P. Filmer of King Solomon's Lodge · No. 260
was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V.". W.". John Whicher of King David's Lodge No, 209
was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.". w:. Thomas J. Baker. of Union Lodge No. 58 was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused· to be read the names of ~ppointed
officers, as follows :
Grand .Chaplain:--:-.Rev. John Snape of Sequoi~ 1:'.o~ge ~6. 349: . .
Grand Ora tor.....:.James T: Fraser of . Hum?oldt Lodg~ _N ?· 7? . .
Assistant Grand Secretary-Frank G. Hobbs of Alexandria
Lodge No. 531.

GRAND LODGE O~' CALIFORNIA

802

Grand Marshal-Henry G. Mathewson of Argonne Lodge No.
514.
Grand Standard-Bearer-Frank A. Frye of Silver Gate Lodge
No. 296.
Grand Sword-Bearer-John Munro Ross of Kilauea Lodge No.
330.
Grand Bible-Bearer-William S. MacMurtry of Oakland Lodge
No. 188.
Senior Grand Deacon-Warren E . Libby of Blackmer Lodge
No. 492.
Junior Grand Deacon-Sidney B. Force of Eden. Lodge No. 113.
Senior Grand Steward-Herbert C. Goldman of Los Cerritos
Lodge No. 674.
Junior Grand Steward-Charles H . J . Hausch of Visalia Lodge
No. 128.
Grand Pursuivant-Warren D. Gitt of Granada Lodge No. 608.
Grand Organist-Charles E. Anderson of Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler-Frank G. Watson of Presidio Lodge No. 354.
M.'. W:. Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master, was appointed
Master of Ceremonies, and all the officers-elect and appointed, excepting only the Grand Treasurer and Grand Sword-Bearer, were
installed by the retiring Grand Master in due and ancient form.

Past Grand Master Well er then, in behalf of Grand
Lodge, presented to Past Grand Master Ross a sterling
silver coffee set.
Marquis F. Calmes, Master of Maui Lodge No. 472,
speaking for all the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands, presented to the retiring Grand Master a silk lei bearing the
names of the eight island Lodges.
Grand Master Gaylord ann·ounced the appointment of
John Stewart Ross as a member of the Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Homes for the term ending October, 1935.
The Grand Master clothed the retiring Grand Master
with the distinctive apron of a Past Grand Master, and also
presented him with a diamond-studded lapel jewel.

•

803

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Past Grand Master Ross then relinquished the .Chas.
Albert Adams Grand Master's lapel jewel to ~is success?r.
The usual transfer of lapel jewels from Semor to J~mor
chair officers was made, and at 2 :25 o'clock, all. busme~s
being now completed, Grand Lodge was closed m Amp e
Form.

ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
Grand Master.

JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

804

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Constitutional Committees of Grand Lodge
Jurisprudence: Frank M. Angellotti, Mills Building, San Francisco; Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles;
Benjamin F. Bledsoe, 639 Roosevelt Building, Los Angeles ; Francis
V. Keesling, deYoung Building, San Francisco; John D. Murphey,
Courthouse, Oakland; Bradford Webster, 360 29th Street, Oakland;
George L. Jones, Nevada City.
Policy and General Purposes: William Rhodes Hervey, Pacific
Southwest Bank Building, Los Angeles; George F . Rodden, 177
Post Street, San Francisco; William A. Sherman, Lombard and
Battery Streets, San Francisco; Albert E . Boynton, 155 Montgomery
Street, San Francisco; William H. Fischer, 1107 Edison Building,
Los Angeles; William H. Waste, State Building, San Francisco;
Claude H . Morrison, First National Bank, San Diego.
Grievances: Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building,
Los Angeles; Olin L. Be<ry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco; =7rank B. Belcher, 510 Spring Street, Los Angeles; Earl Warren, Courthouse, Oakland; Arthur W. Brouillet, Humboldt Bank
Building, San Francisco.
Finance: William P.- Jeffries, 115 Winston Street, Los Angeles;
Frank C. Ruppel, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Joseph M. Argabrite, Ventura; Gus A. Hutaff, Dunsmuir; Arthur S. Cri'.es, Bakersfield.
Board of Control: David J. Reese, Ventura; Robert F. Callender, 1128 West Kensington Road, Los Angeles; Jam es R. Erskine,
Box 974, Fresno; Eugene S. Elkus, Bank of Italy Building, San
Francisco; Frank M. Wise, 324 Tenth Street, Santa. Monica.
Credentials: Walter L. Berger, 4509 Arlington, Los Angeles;
Irving Magnes, Easton Building, Oakland; Chester H . Warlow,
Security First National Bank, Fresno; Charles T. White, Crocker
Building, San Francisco; Charles E: Sones, El Centro.
Charters: Bruce Wale, 440 Sansome Street, San Francisco;
Henry Eissler, Bakersfield; Norman G. Davidson, 410 East Randolph
Street, Glendale; Lloyd C. Campbell, 1419 South Curtis Street, Alhambra; Earl Lee Kelley, Redding.
By-Laws: Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock Building, San
Francisco; Arthur Joel, Mills Building, San Francisco ; Victor McLucas, 506 Adelaide Drive, Santa Monica; John Robinson, Sa,cramento; Franklin Patlan, 1700 South Second Street, South Pasadena.

sos

Pay of Members: John McGehee, State Capitol, Sacramento;
Joseph Block, 156 Fourth Street, San Francisco; W.W. McKee, 326
Chapala Street, Santa Barbara; Benjamin G. Wright, 740 South Olive
Street, Los Angeles; Fred Snidecor, Corona.
Accounts (All of San Francisco): Louis Sutter, Anglo-California
Trust Company, Sansome and Sutter Streets, San Francisco; Paul
Nathan, 311 California Street; Edward E. Conn, 27 Clay Street;
Otto G. Freyermuth, 209 Post Street; V. E . Perry, 425 Mason Street.
Returns: Robert E . Allan, 1290 Sutter Street, San Francisco;
Jacob M. Bashor, Monrovia; Thomas Foree, Van Nuys; John S.
Corey, Grass Valley ; Clarence H. Eckert, Holtville.
Correspondence : Jesse M. Whited, Phelan Building, San Francisco ; Martin Griffith, 265 East 43rd Street, Los Angeles; Byron F.
Hillhouse, Woodland; Trustom R. Dinsmore, Eureka; Martin Ortlieb, Seventh and C Streets, San Diego; C. M. Hickman, Placerville;
Henry Mottet, 1030 Leavenworth Street, San Francisco; Charles
Ziegler, Harris & Frank Building, Los Angeles; Bion S. Gregory,
Hearst Building, San Francisco; A. Cogliandro, 622 Montgomery
Street, San Francisco.
Library: Denman S. Wagstaff, 1703 Broderick Street, . San
Francisco; John E. Houston, Humboldt Bank Building, San Fra1,1cisco; Rudolph Rosenberg, 742 22nd Avenue, San Francisco; Ralph
L . Garnier, 1330 South Van Ness Avenue, Los Angeles; Clayton St.
John Hale, 867 Villa Avenue, San Jose.
Financing Building Projects: William .P . Jeffries, ll5 Winston
Street, Los Angeles; William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San
Francisco; Edward E. Reinke, 780 San Luis Road, Berkeley.
Grand Lodge Week Activities: (To be appointed later).
Necrology: William H. Parcels, 1121 Detwiler Building, Los
Angeles; Max A. Plumb, 5836 Law ton Avenue, Oakland; William
H . Holbrook, 439 South Hill Street, Los Angeles.
Special Committees
Ritual : Thomas J. Baker, Masonic Temple, San Francisco;
Dana R. Weller, Financial Cente.r Building, Los Angeles; William
P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
Endowment: George M. Perine, 789 University Avenue, Palo
Alto; Thomas Flint, Hollister; Ezra W. Decato, 392 Bellevue, Oakland; William I. Kohnke, 686 Sacramento Street, San Francisco;

t:l"Ij.
0 .
~

~>L' ..... ~
u;· :I ~ <

~:I to
-· 2 IJQ > ;:.; · ::s
.
>< ••
0
('1)

('1)

.?~-'"10~~..,g

'"'trl::iui ....
>< :s n a ~ . "'
.g(1) ::s !!.(b ~(ti ...,~ -· ~::s ~
~- - .: ~ " ~ -!""'" '"d
aui~~"'aui~
('O
c: <.....
c: ('b
(/l

g_~ s:;o~~g o.:

(ti

..,

-·

0

C""

:I

(ll

-

'O

~ ~ ~

n rn !fl .....
0 ::t>
3 "' "' :::;'.
~"'

0 e: to ~ '-]
-· J;l ~ e:. ()

-"'er "' .. > . .
('1)

..,..;;._t>:s .;,::::::

g

-·"':>;"

...,

('b

::s - · ...,
('D
- · ::s .
~7s . fJJ~~Q"~
.
(/l

('1)

"' Ul

:;ti

CL-.
.....
~
""1
:I .....
"' "'
"'
9 !"'" !"'" ...,

('1)

-.....a·

NS

::ii»
:::;·

"Ij
0 "'

;;;- C'l
3 cr
..,"'

s
?"'

s~ ~

::!. (") ~

-"' .."'

"'()

"'

~

0 ('1)
:I :I

"'3

('1)

.~n~:se_

Ul ..,

3 '"d .... ~.
""'

c

a t:1 s· z
:;o o- a: ui <:»
0 •.
"' :I

!'.i >§"g.
("'!)

('1)

Ul ~to;:;·

'."l ::s <: aq
- "'
.....

Ul"' ..,
"' .

:>;""' ;:;:

O" "'

"' (") '< -· :I
~ rJ -· ~ (/l

~- o<
>
';:!..cu •
"'

>-

'O 0. ...... :I

>
0.

0

Ul ~

:::i:

:I ...N

c

:I

('1)

9

7-~ .?'"'1~

U>

1!- 0

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,
With date of Chart~rs, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 593 J •

Names of Loda'es.

..I.,..

.c

s
::s

~

.......
.........
.........
.......
......

.;

Places of Location.
Town.

I

County.

1 California
1 isan }'rancisco •••... San .Francisco •.••.•
2 Western Star ••••• 2 1Shasta ••..•••.••... Shasta •..••• .•• .•••
3 Tehama
3 Sacramento • • .•••• • Sacramento • • . ....•
4 Benicia
5 Benicia •...•.•••••• Solano ....•.•••••.•
5 Tuolumne
8 Sonora ..•••...•••.. Tuolumne ...•.•••..
6 Corinthian
9 Marysville
Yuba
San
Jose
7
.•••••.• 10 San Jose •••••.•.•.. San ta Clara .•...•..
8 Yount ••••••••••• 12 Napa
Napa
!I Nevada •••••••.• 13 ~evada City •..••• • • ,Nevada
10 Temple ••••••.•.• 14 Sonoma ............ 1Sonoma .••........•
11 Eureka ••••..•••• 16 Auburn ......•. .. . ,Placer •••••...••..•
12 Parfaite Union •• 17 1San Francisco ••••.. San Francisco • . • ..•
13 Mountain Shade.. 18 1Downieville •.• ••.•. iSierra ...... • ••. · • •
H San Joaquin •••••• 19 Stockton •.•..••.•.• San Joaquin •.••••.•
15 Washington •••• . • 20 Sacramento ...•...• Sacramento .•••.•••
16 Hawaiian . • • . • • • 21 Honolulu, H. T •.••. ·IHawaiian Ter .....•.
17 Occidental •••..•. 22 1San Francisco • ...... San Francisco ••.•.•
18 Madison ••.•• •••• 23 1Grass Valley •....•. Nevada •.••.••••..•
19 Mariposa ••••.••• 241Mariposa ..........• Mariposa .•...••••••
20 Georgetown ••••• 25 10eorget?wn .. ••. •. . El Dorado ••••.•... •
21 El· Dorado ...•.•.. 26(lacerv1lle •••• •• ... El Dorado ••••.•.•.•
22 Trinity .•....•••• 27\Veaverville ........ ,Trinity •....••....•
23 Golden Gate •.••• 30 San Francisco •••..• San Francisco •.• ..•
24 Gold Hill •••••••• 321Lincoln •••.•••...•• ,Placer •..••••••••••
25 Ophir ••••••••••• 33 Murphy 'a ..•..••.•• Calaveras .•••••••••

.........
············ ··

..............

Date when Charter
was Issued.

April

19,

1850.

" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Nov. 27,

"
"
"
1851.

"
"
.............. May
............ "
"
Nov.

"
"6,

May

5,

1852.

"

"
"
"
"
"
1853.
"
"
"
."
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"7,
"
"

"

20,
5,

"

"6,
5,

"
"
"

"
"
"

. . .. ...oo= A"" St:
.. ..
.E $ -'.P
... .,~
.,., .,_

Oi

-<

-<"

20
6
10

12

"""

r..i::i

JOO
50
75

~113

50 ......
75
2
50 ......
50 ......

,,,o

""

~

9

742
89
448
16£
241
330
504
274
145

12

l:!~

Cl

9

217
195

~0

9
9

12
9
9
!I

60 .... ..
50 ......
2
40
50 ......

12

100 15
30 ......
80 ......
75 10
80 10
100 2.:;
53 ......

12

50
5
30 ......
50
5
50
5
JOO 10
1
50
4
50

'""'

~~

~

HG

12

63U
535
381
9Hl

9

12
12
JO
9
!l
9

p
12
9
9

163
140
. 51
190
91
R23
1••3
48

~

z

ti

t"
0

8l'J
0

'>;)

~

:i:i

z
.....
~

00

0

......

Santa Rosa • . . . . . 57
Sacramento
Union ........... 58 Sacramento
Yuba .... . ...... ...
Gravel Range .... 59 Camptonvine ... .. .. Plumas ........... .
Plumas ......... 60 Quincy ........ . ... Alameda ....... ....
Live Oak ... .. ... 61 Oakland .. .. .......•
Folsom ............. Sacramento
Natoma ......... 64
Amatlor ............
Amador ......... 65 Jackson
Sierra
Alleghany
..........
Forest ......•... 66 Stockton . , ......... San Joaquin ........
Morning Star .. .. 68
.............
Enterprise . . . . . . • 70 Yuba City •..•..... Sutter
Calaveras . ..... ... .
Bear Mountain ... 76 Angel's Camp •....•
Calaveras
Calaveras ...•..• 78 San Andreas ....... Humboldt .. ........
Eureka
......•
79
!l9. Humboldt
A manor
53 lone .........••• 801Io

40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51

54
55
56·
57·
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71

72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86

··· ·· ···

.... ········

············

.. ······ ··
······ ·· ···

Yolo .......... .. 81 Yolo ............... Yolo .• , ........... .
Vesper .......... 84 Red Bluff ......... . Tehama .- ......... ..
Naval ........... 87 Vallejo ...••...... . Sola.no · ............•
Rose's Bar ...... 89 Bmartsville •.••....• Yuba .....•. ; ....••
North Star .... : . 91 Fort Jones ...•.•.•. Siskiyou •..•..•...•
St. Helena ........ 9:l St. Helena ......... Napa ..•... ; ......•
Henry Clay ....... !)5 Sutter Creek ........ Amador •..........•
Hornitos . ~ ....••• 98 Homitos •..•......• Mariposa ·••....•...•
Yosemite . . . • . • • • 99 Merced . . . . • . . . . . . . Merced ...... . .... .
Clay ...•..•.•••. 101 Dute~ Flat ......•.. Placer .....•...... .
Oroville ..•••.... 103 Oroville .... .. ...... Butte ..........••••
LexiLgton ...•••• 104 El Monte ..•....... Los Angeles .. ; ....•
Arcata •••••••••• 106 Arcata ....•....... . Humboldt .........•
Pajaro ••..•.....• 110 Watsonville ........ Santa Cruz . . ..... ; ;
Chico ........... 111 Chico .............. Butte ............. .
Summit ......•... 112 Knight's Ferry ..... Stanislaus ..... . .•..
Eden ............ 113 San Leandro .... ... Alameda . ... ..•....
Concord .......•• 117 Sacramento .•...... Sacramento .....•..
Clinton .•........ 11!1 lgo .......•..•.•... Shasta ....... . ....•
Fidelity ..••..••. 120 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •.....
Alamo ....•...... 122 Walnut Creek .. . ... Contra Costa ....•.•
Sotoyome ••....•• 123 Healdsburg ...... ... Sonoma ....... .. .•.
Table Mountain .. 124 Cherokee ........... Butte •..•.••.••.•••
La Fayette ....... 126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma ....•...•.••
Hermann .•...... 127 San Francisco • . . . . . San Francisco .... . .
Visalia •...•..... 128·Visalia •............ Tulare •..•....•.•.•
Nicohus ......... 129 Wheatland •..•..... Yuba ............. .
Wooilbridge .•.... 131 Woodbridge ..... ... San Joaquin ....... .
Sincerity ........ 132 Greenville ......... Plumas ........... .
Vacaville ...•.•.. 134 Vacaville . ..• ...... Solano ....... . ....•
Valley ....••..... 135 Linnen ............. San Joaquin ...... .
Pacifie ....••.... 136 San Francisco . . . . • . San Francisco
Crockett ......... 139 3an Franrisco ... . ... San Francisco

"

"
"
"
"2,

"
"
"
"
······ ·· ""
············· ""
"
"

····· ···

"

July
May

May

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
"4, "
"
1, 1855.
8,

1856.

8,

18.56

"
"
''
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1857.

"
"
"
"·
"
"
"·
"
May
"
"
"
"
"
May
"
"
"
"
"
"
May

"
"14, 1859.

"

13,

",.,

15,
14,

"
"
"
"
"
"
15, "
13, 1858.
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
May
11,

"
"
"
"
1850.

May

10;

1S60.

"

"

.

"

"

"

9
5
75 10
4
9
55 ······
4·
9
50 2.50
100 25 12 IO 6K
1 2
5
9
50
6
9
50 ······
2
9
50 ... ...
4 8
80 ...... 12
1
5 12
50
'' 89
9
3
50
26
5
9
50
4!J
75 ...... 18
77
9
50 .. ....

50 ..... .
50 .... ..
75 10
50
5
35
5
50
1
60 ..... ,
55 10
50 ..... .
60 ..... .
50
5
5.j
1
55
3
50 IO
50 10
50
5
8011

75
30
100
80

75

!I

12
12
9
15
9
12
12
9
15
12
9

5

12

10
5
50
5

9

5

80
1
50 ... ...
100 20
50 . 8
50
5
50
5
50
5·

75 ...... 1
50
100
100

9

9
9
9

9
15
12
12
~

9
12

91

9
!l
9
9
9

12
201 12
25! 12

70

!SR
6ll
41
53
106

53

77
230
64
284
187
::21
270
377
42
222
259
45
723

134
206
93
201
2i6
309
96

0

~

ztJ

t'
0
tJ
0
1:1'.l

0
".I
Q

t

".I
0

~

>

IHI

112
165

73
824
794

00
0

'°

"
Redwood City ..•• 168 Redwood City •••••• San Mateo ...•..•••
"
Mission ......... 169 San Francisco •.••.. San Francisco •.....
Oct.
Elk Grove ....•... 173 Elk Grove ..•...•... Sacramento ....... .
"
Drytown ...•..•. 174 Plymouth .......... Amador ......•.•.•.
Antioch ......... 175 Antioch •. ... ...... . Contra Costa ...•.•. , Oct.
Phoenix ....•.... 178 San Bernardino •.... San Bernardino ..•••
Mendocino ....... 179 Mendocino ......•... Mendoeino ....•...•
"
"
Petaluma ...•. . .. 180 Petaluma .....•... · \Sonoma .........••.
"
Russian River .•.• 181 Windsor ...••....•. Sonoma ...• .....•.•
Oct.
Arbuckle .•....•• 182 Arbuckle .......... Colusa ......•...•..
no Clear
"
Lake .•••... 183 Lower Lake •.•••.•• Lake ••..••.•.•. •..
111
"
112 Sierra Valley ..... 184 Sierraville •.••.•..• Sierra ..•••...•.••.
"
Claiborne
..••....
185
Point
Arena
••••••••
Mendocino
••••..••.
113
"
Evening
Star
.•...
186
Etna
Mills
.•.••••••
Siskiyou
......•••••
114

101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109

"
100
"
"13, 1865.
, no
1

. "" ""

.............

115 Keith ..••• • ..••• 187 Gilroy
Santa Clara ........ Oct.
116 Oakland ........• 188 Oakland
Alameda ... . ...
117 Norther.a Light .•. 190 Millville ..••••..... ::lhasta ............
Oct.
118 Marin ••.•.•.•... 191 San Rafael •..••..• . Marin
119 Santa. Barbara .... 1!12 Santa Barbara ••... Santa Barbara .... .
"
120 Ferndale ..••••.. 193 Ferndale
Humboldt .• . ....• . . Oet.
121 Mountain View .. . 194 Mountain View ..•.. Santa Clara ...... ..
"
122 Buckeye ......... 195 \Vinters ......•.... Yolo ...............
"
123 San Simeon ....•.. 196 1·ambria .••...•.... San Luis Obispo ....
"
124 Wilmington ..•• .• 198 Wilmington •..... .. Los Angeles ........ Oc-t.
125 Hartlty ........• 199 Lakeport .......... Lake ..............
"
126 Truckee ......... 20\J Truckee
Nevada .......... . .
127 Silveyville .... . .. 201 Dixon
Solano .. ... ....... .
"
128 Pentalpha .....•. 202 Los Angeles ...... .. Los Angeles ..••....
Castroville
.....•...
129 Confidence ....... 203
Monterey . ... ..... .
"
130 Salina~ ..... . .... 204 Salinas ............ Monterey ...•.....
"
0 1't.
131 Olive1: ...••. ..... 205 <'orning ..• ••....••. Tehama .... • .• . . .. .
132 Stanislaus .. ..•• . 206 Modesto
Stanislaus ...... . ..
"
133 Anaheim . . . . • • • . 207 Anaheim
Orange .... ... ..... .
"
134 Rio Vista .. ... ... 208 Rio Vista.·.......... Solano .......... ...
"
:;.35 King David's .••. 209 ::lan Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo • ... .
"
136 Friendship ....... 210 San Jose ..•... .. .. . Santa Clara ........ Oct.
137 San Benito ....... 211 Hollister ........... San Benito . . ......
"
138 So. Snn Francisco. 212 San Francisco •..... San Francisco ... ...
"
139 San Buenaventura. 214 Ventura .. . •.•..... Ventura .. • • .. ......
140 Oak Grove ..••... 215 Alameda .......... Alameda •......•...
"
141 Doric ..... . ...... 216 San Franciaco ...... San Francisco ..... .
142 Mont~rey ••...... 217 Monterey .. . .. ...... Monterey
"
143 Mo~aic ......•.•. 218 Livermore
Alameda .... ... ... . Oct.
144 Speranza Italiana. 219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •.•. ..
"
145 Downey •........ 220 Downey •..•........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
146 Inyo ............ 221 [ndependence ••• .. .. Inyo ......•........
"
14 7 ' Roseville •• ...••• 222 Roseville ... . ....... . Placer .. . .......... Oct.
148 Baker~field • .•••. 224 Baiuirsfield •..•..... Kern
Oet.
149 Brooklyn .... • ••. 225 East Oakland ...••. • Alam~da ... • ..... .•
150 San Mateo ...•••• 226 San Mateo ..••••••• San Mateo •. • •... ..
"
II
151 Athen~ ........•. 228 !)avis
Yolo .. .. •.• ... .....

···········

............

...........

"
"

"
"

·········· ··
··· ··········
.. .........
....... ....

... ..... ..

··········

··············

...... .......

"
"

"

12, 1865.
11, 1866.

"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

15,

1868.

"

"

"10,

1867.

..

l
'
..

...
"
15,

"

1868.

....
..."
.."" ...."
" .
" ..
"

14, 1869.

"

14,

14,

1869.

1870.

..""" ...""
.." .."
" .
.." """
14,

"

11,

"
"
"

12,
18,

"
"

"

5 12
9
10
9
50
5
50
&' 12
\I
55
3
9
f>O
5
9
80
5
no 1 9
12
50
]
9
55 10
50 ......
9
50
~I 12
9
50 ......

187 I.

....
..
....

1872.

10
30
35
3
80 ......
100
5
50 ......

15
12

,.

a

27
\I

so ......

5 12
50
3 ..... .. 1 !I
rn !) 12
3(:) ......
9
5
9
60
5
60
\I
105 20 12
4-0 ......
9
75 ......
50 ...... l :!
...... 9
50 ......
9
1
56
9
1
~o
12
50 ......
9
301
1 12
95 ...... 12

50 .... ..
1001 f>
100 10

1;,., ......

50 , .... .

1051 35

~-·

1912.
187:!.

1~::~~

"

5(1,·•••••.

50 .... ..

~

12
121
9
12
12
9
20
12
12
l2
18
9

863
113
36

~

] t>7

4;8
168
832

llO
85
51
38
58
47

188
969
90
468
311
160
210

108
84
:i27
178
l:.!7
138
734
:i3
278
11 7
36;"
3:16
91
286
5~:i

150
::IOI
306
629
618
167
136
410
218
82
263
497
669
286
124

Cl
~

>
z
t::1

t"'
0

t:l
Cl
l'J

0

'%]

(')

;...
t"'
.....
'1j

0

~

z

>

00

Laurel . ......... 245 Willows ........ • . .. Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Pomona ...•..... 246 Pomona ...•........ Los Angeles . . . . . • ..
Fresno ......•... 247 Fresno ........ . .... Fresno . . . . . . . . . • . . .
Alturas ......••.. 248 Alturas ...•....... . Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Adin .•.......... 250 Adin ......•....... Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landmark : ...... 253 Espa·~to .•......... Yolo · · · · · · · · · · · · • ·
Reading .. : ; : .... 254 Reddmg ........... Shasta , · · · · · · • ·. · · ·
Wel~o'me ·. ...•. : . 255 Lem?ore .•.••...... Kings •.. : . . . . . . • • •
17~ Lodi ·· .••••....... 256 Lodi •.• • •••••••••. San Joaquin . . . . • . .•
17;> Penrhyn ••• ; ••••• 258 Penryn •..•..•.•..• Placer . . . • • . . . • . • . •
176 Evergreen ....•.. 259 Riverside ....•...•• Riverside . • . . . . . • • •
177 King Solomon's .• , 260 San Francisco . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . .
178 Tuscan .......... 261 Williams ...... . ·.. ... C<!lusa . . . . . . . . . . . . .

166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173

"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oet.
"
''
"

"
"
"
"
10, 1878.
"
"
"
"
16, 1879
"
"
"
"
"
"
15, 1880.
"
"
''
''
"
"

50
5 18
50
3 12
80
3
!'
40
1
9
'iO ... ... 15
50
l
9
50
8 12
50 . . . . ..
\l
50 ......
\l
30
3
g
50 ... .. .
80 15 12
50 ... .. . 12

t<l

380
572

122
68
96

198
127

21!1
121
049
828
86

12

·;.};:

Lompoc ...••... .. 262 Lompoc •..•.•..•••. Santa Barbara • ••..
Hesperian ••..... 264 Santa Maria ...•.. . . Santa Barbara •.•••
·Orland .......... 265 Orland •....••.....• Glenn ............ ..
North East ..••... 266 Fort Bidwell •.•.... Modoc •.•.••.•....•
Galt .......•..... 267 Galt .....•........• Sacramento ••••••••
Durant .......••. 268 Berkeley .•. , ....... Alameda •••••..•••.
Olive Branch ..... 269 Tulare ......••••..• Tulare .....•.•....•
Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford ...•...• Colusa ....••.•••...
Pasadena ••....•. 272 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles' •.••••••
Anchor .......... 273 Compton .........•• Los Angeles •.••.... ··
Arroy o .....•... . 274 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obispo •••.•
Oakdale ......... 275 Oakdale •......... .• Stanislaue •.••.•....
Selma- •.......... 277 Selma .•. .......••• Fresno ... . .•......•
Soutl:.t>rn Calif•.. . 278 Los Angeles •..•.... Los Angeles ..•• • .••
Hanford ...••..•. 279 Hanford •.......... Kings •............•
Mad2ra ...• .• •... 280 Madera ...........• Madera .• . .••...•.•
Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson ......•.•• Shasta ......•.•••• •
Callayomi ......• 282 Middletown ...... .. Lake ..••..•.•••.••
South West .•..... 283 National City ...... San Diego ... ..••..•
San Miguel ....• . . 285 San Miguel ..... ... San Luis Obispo ...•..
Paso Robles •....• 286 Paso Robles .....•.. San Luis Obispo ..••.
WinMdumah .•• •. 287 Bishop •.........•.• Inyo .••...•.•..•.••
Maxwell •......•. 288 Maxwell ..........• Colusa ......•..••••
Elsinore ...•..... 289 Elsinore ............ Riverside ... . ..... .
East Gate ..•.•.•. 290 Los Angeles. . . . . . . . Los Angeles ...•..••
Santa Paula ..••.. 291 Santa Paula ......•• Ventura . .• ·~ ..... .
Los Gatos .••..... 292 Los Gatos ..•...•••• Santa Clara •..•..••
Orange Grove .•• • . 293 Orange • .•..••••• , • , Orange ••........•.
Traver ...•••••••. 294 Kingsburg •....•... Fresno ••• •..•••..•.
Mt. Jackson ...•.. 295 Guerneville . ...... . . Sonoma .• • •.... .. •.
Silver Gate .... .. 296 San Diego • •• ••••..• San Diego •.......•.
Dunsmuir ..•.... . 297 Dunsmuir •......•.• Siskiyou ...•..•••••
Liberty . ......... 299 Santa Clara •....... Santa Clara ••.•••.•
212 Redlands ...••••• 300 Redlands ..•...••••• San Bernardino •••.•
213 Ontario ... • ..•.. 301 Ontario ••••..••.••• San Bernardino •...•
214 Santa Lucia ... ... 302 Kings' City •..•.•. • Monterey ........ ..
179

180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
·206
207
208
209
210
211

Oct.
Oct.

"
"
Oct.
"

..
"

Oct.
Oct.

"

"
Oct.

15,
12,

1881.
1882.

,,
''11, 1883.
"
" "
'' "
16, 1884.
''

'' "
16, 1884.
''
'' .,,"
16,

1885.

"
"
"
H

"
"
"

"
"

Oet.

14,

1887.

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
1888.

"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
1886.

"
"
11,
" "
" "
" "
" "
10, 1889.
''

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
1890.
"
"

"

50

1

!}

50
1
50
2
30
5
. 30 ... .. .
80 10
50 ..... .
30
1
100 ..... .
80 ..... .
55
6
75 . 1
50 12
100 15
80 .. ....
50
3
30 ......
30
5
50
1
30 10
50
3
50 .. ... .
55 ... .. .
30 ..... .
80 25
50 ······
50 ..... .
75
1
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
80 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 .. ... .
50 ..... .
50 ...~·..

12
9
9
9
9
18

401'" .. ..

9

12
9
12
9
9
12
l:l
12
9
9
9
12
9
20
9
12
9
12
12

12
10

12
12
12
9
9
9
24

155
260
122
. 51
73
725
206
47
6tH
3~

83
112
l!l9
675

161
l\JO
64
56

171

0
:0

~

lj

t"
0

lj

0
t<J
0

79

"')

119

~

132
85
1(15
934
309
218
223
rn4
132
642
229
245
402
221
120

t"

:ij
0
:0

z

~

....

00

<.->

229
230
231
232
233
234
231:
236
237
238
239
240

Emmanuel ....... 318Biggs .............. Butte ...•......•••.
Hollenbeck •...• . 319 Los Angeles •••..... Los Angeles ••.•.••.
South Gate •...... 320 Los Angeles ••••.... Los Angeles •••.....
Aliaal •..•.....•. 321 Pleasanton .• • .•.... Alameda •••••••••..
Alhambra •.....•. 322 Alhambra ••...••••. Los Angeles ••••....
Whittier ......... 323 Whittier .. .. • .. .. . Los Angeles ...... ..
Corona .......... 324 Pasade~a ........•• Los Angeles •..•....
Consuelo ........ 325Escondido .......... San Diego ........ ..
Needles ......... 326 Needles . ........... San Bernardino ••••.
Long Beach •••••. 327 Long Beach ••••..•. tos Angeles ..•..•..
Redondo ........ 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ...... ..
Vallee de France .. 329 Los Angele• ••••••.. toe Angeles •...•...

241

~2

243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
25.5
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277

"

''11, 1894.
''
'' ''
,," ''"

Ocf.

11,

"

Oct.

"
"

II

"
"
Oct.
Oct.

1895.

''
''

'',,.

13,

1896.

"

j'

15,

1897.

"

''

''

·1

Oct.

K_ilaiJea. ••• , , •••• 330 Hilo •••• , .. , •• , .••. Eia,wa,iial). Ter••••••
Grove .•• , . 331 Pacific Grove , • • • • • . Monterey •••••• •• • ~
San Pedro ••••••. 332 Sa,n Pedro ,. . ., , • , . . Los Angele111 •• , • , •• ,
Alta •••••••••••. 333 Bridgeport .......... Mono , ~ ••••••••••••
Covina •••.•••••• 334 Covina , ..•• , •• , .... Lo11 Angele11 •• : •••••
West Gate •.•.•.. 335 Los Angeles ....•••. Los Angeles •.•.••••
Fruitvale •••••.•• 336 Oakland •.••••••••.• Alameda ••.•.••.•••
Carquinez ••••••• 337 Crqckett •••• ••• •••. Contra Costa •.•••.•
San Jacinto •••••. 338 Sa11. Jacinto •..••••. Riverside ••••••••••
Fullerton •••••••. 339 Fullerton •..••••••. Orange , ••••.••••••
Oxnard ........... 341 Oxna,rd ............ Ventura .......... .
San Fernando .... 343 Fernando ..•••••••• Los Angeles ••••••• ,
Starr King •••••.. 344 San Francisco • . • • . . San Francisco •.••••
Brentwood ••••••. 345 Brentwood ••••••••• Contra Costa •••••••
Palo Alto •••••••. 346 Palo Alto ••••.••••. Santa Clara ••.•••. ,
McKinley ..•••.. 347 Richmond •••••••••• Contra Costa •....••
San Bernardino .•. 348 San Bernardino •••. San Bernardino •..••
Sequoia •••••••.. 349 Oakland ••..••••••. Alameda ..•.••••.• ,
Palestine •••••••. 351 Los Angeles ••.••••. Los Angeles •.••• .. •
Sunset .••••••••. 352 Los Angeles • • • • • • • . Los Angele• •.••••••
Pinole .••.•••••.. 353 Pinole ............. Contra Costa •••••••
Presidio .•.••..•. 354 San Francisco •••••. San Francisco .•••.•
Hollvwood ..••.•. 355 Hollywood ••••••••. Los Angeles ••••••••
Mil( Valley ••.•.•. 356 Mill Valley •..•••••. Marin ••••••••.••••
Iluen2. Park •••••• 357 Buena Park ••••••.. Orange· •...••••••••
Golden Gate .•.••. 358 Los Angeles ••.•••.. Los Angeles ••••••••
Loyalton .••.•.•. 359 Loyalton : ..••••.•.. Sierra ••. : ..••.•••••
San Francisco •••. 360 San Francisco • • • • • . San Francisco ••••••
Fort Bragg •..••.. 361 Fort Bragi; ••.•.•••. Mendocino •••••••••
Charity ••••••.... 362 Campbell •••••••••.. Santa Clara ••••••••
Berkeley •••••••• 363 Berkeley , •••••• , ••. Alameda •••• , ......
Willits ••••••••.. 365 Willits ••.••.•..••• Mendocino •••••••.•
Las Palmas ••••••. 366 Fresno •.••••••.•••. Fresno •••••••••••••
Soutll Pasa«Jena , .367 f3(>uth Pasadena, •• , , Los Angeles ••• , ., ,,
Unity ••••••••••• 368 Glendale , ••••• , •••. Los A.ngele11 ••••••• ,
Ocean Park ••••.. 36!1 Ocean Park ••...••. Los Angeles •••• ; ~ ••
Amity ••••••••••. 370 San Franciaeo •••••. San Francisco •••••.
Paci~c

50
5
100 10
100 15
50 .. ....
80 ......
55
3
100
8
50 ......
75
1
130 ......
80 ... .. .
100 12

15,

.

1897

"
"
Oct.

"
'' "
'' ''
14, 1898.

Oct.

14,

1899.

"
"
Oct.

"

"

Oct.
Oct.

10,
15,

1901.
1902.

"
"
.,"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"

'' "
'' ''
'' "
'~
''
'' "
''16, 1903
"

. ·'' "

"
"

Oct.

"
"

" ''
11, 1900.

''

"

"

"
'' ''
'' "
'' "
''
"
13, 1904.
,,'' ,,''
''
''

." ''

Oct.

12,

"
"
"
"
"

,,''
''

"
"

''
''
"
1905.
,,"

"

''

''

9
9
9
9
9
9
12
9
12
9
12
12

50•......

7$
109

82
1505
807
117

~

l%J

465

515
651
170
215
748
275
149

12

222
149
12
590
9
41
9
245
18 . 878
12
810
12
161
9
111
12
451
12
256

9

53
5
SQ ......
80 10

100 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
75 ..... .
50
1

qo ......

9

245

55 ......

12
12

55 4%
75 ..... .

9

653
115
520
327
555
996
687
520
148
635
1326
360

100

55

10

5

80
1
100 10
IOQ. 10
50 ......

75

15

100 10
100 ..... .
30 ..... .
80 .... . .
5(1 ..... .
100 ..... .
50
a

75 ......
80

5

80

3
15

00

l

80
00 10
80 ·······
100 25

9
9
12
12
18
12
12
9
15

9

156

9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
10
18
12
12

1009
81
438
107
121
636
141
694
546
506
406
530

Cl

~
z

tl
t"'
0
tl
Cl
l".l
0
':J

Q

~

~:i;:i

z

>

~

'-"

··········· ""

291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303

El Centro .•••..... 384 81 Centro .....••••.. Imperial
Dinuba ..•..•••.. 385 Dinuba ............. Tulare ••••••••••• , •
Coalinga .•••.••. ,387 l;oalinga .• , . .... . .. Fresno ..•.•••••••••
Parn!lssus ....•••. 388 San Francisco.,, •••• San Francisco •••••••
Palos Verdes .•.•• 389 Long Beach ...... .. . Los Angeles •••••••••
Imperial
Imperial ..•..•... 390 Imperial
Tuolumne ...•••••••
East Belt •..••... 391 Tuolumne
West Lake ....••. 392 Los Angeles .•••••.• Los Angeles .• •• ..•.
San Francisco •••.••.
Balder • • • . . • . • • . 393 San Francisco .. , .••.
University •..••.. 394 Los Angeles •••...•.• Los Angeles .•••••• , .
Turlock . . . . . . . .. 395 Turlock .. ; ..•..•.•• Stanislaus
Apollo ........... 396 Alameda •....•. • ••. Alameda .....•.••••
Rising Light .•... 397 Huntington Park .••• Los Angeles •••••••.•

304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336

Fnternity •••••.. 399.San Jose .••.••••... Santa Ciara .....••.
Burlingame .•• , • .400 Burlingame • , •••••• San Mateo • ••.. ....
Bay View ........ 401 Oakland .••••• ••••• Alameda .•. ••• •..•.
Br11wley •••••••• .402 Brawley •••..••••• . Imperial ..••.•...••
Yerba Buena ••• • .403,0akland..•••• •. .•• . Alameda ........... .
Glendora .••• •••• .404 Glendora .•• , •••••.. Los Angeles .. . .... .
:M:oneta •.••.••••. 405 Los Angeles •.••.•.. Los Angeles ... . ... .
Burbank ...•.••• .406 Burbank ••••••.•.•. Los Angeles ...... ..
La Mesa •.•.••••• 4071La :M:esa ..••••• ••••. San Diego ....... . . .
Sierra :M:adre .••• .408 1Sierra Madre.,, ••••. Los Angeles ... .... .
Honolulu ...•••• .409 Honolulu •• , •. , ••.. Hawaii .... . .•. .••..
Charter Rock .•.. .410 Berkelev .......... . Alameda •....•..• • .
Perris ....••..•• .411 Perris ..•.•.••.••.. Riverside ...•....••
1
Calexico •••••••• .412 Calexico ••••••••. .. Imperial •..•.•...•.
Waucoba •..••••• 413 1Big Pine . ••••.•••.. Inyo ...... .. •.••••.
Arlington ....... 414Los Angeles ..••••.. Los Angeles . .....•.
Silver Trowel. •.•. 415 Los Angeles ••••••.. Los Angeles .••••••.
Lindsay ......... 416 1Lindsay ••• •••••••. Tulare ..•..••. , ..•
Clovis •••••.••••• 4171Clovis •..•••..••.•. Fresno .....•.••.. •
Elysian ...•••••• .418 Los Angeles ..•••• .. Los Angeles . .•..•..
Upland .... •••••. 419 Upland ••.•••• ••. . • San Bernardino .....
Kerman •..•••••. 420 Kerman , •••••• , ••.. Fresno . .......•. ~ ••.
Inglewood ••••••. 421 Inglewood ••••.•• , •.. Los Angeles ..•...• •
Eagle Rock ••••• .422 Eagle Rock •• , •••••. Los Angeles .•..••••.
York ..•. , •.. , • , .423 Watts •.••••• ••••... Los Angeles .... •. ••
Exeter ••.•....•• 424 Exeter .••••• • , •••. Tulare ..•••.•••••.•
Holtville ••.••••. 425 Holtville .•..• , • , .... Imperial .• ...•....•
:M:idway .. , , , •.•. 4:26 Taft .••.•••• , , •• , •. Kern ....... ..• ••. ,
Chino Valley ••.•. 427 Chino •..••••••••.•. San Bernardino .••••
San Dimas .• , •.••• 428 San Dimas ••..••••• Los Angeles •..•.•••
Pittsburg ••• , ..•. 429 Pittsburg .••• •• •• .. Contra Costa ....•••
:M:eCloud ....•.•.. 43'0 MeCloud ••••••.•.• .. Siskiyou ••..••..•.•
Alph'l ...•.•. , ..• 431 Richmond ...•••.•.. Contra Costa ·

···········
...........

"

"
"

··········· Oct.
"
"
"
"

..
··········

"·
"
"
"
15,
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
1908
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"

Oct.

15,

1908

"
Oct.

'' "
14, 1909.

"
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

"

''
''

''

Oct.

13,

1909.
1910.

"

"
''
''
''
''
''
''
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

"
Oct.
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

cc

"14,

"

"

''

"
"
"
"

,,''
,,
,,

''
''
"11, 1911.
''
'' "
"
"
''
''
12, 1912.
'' ''
,,
''
,, "
''
,,"
"
'' "
'' ''
'' ''

9
50 ......
100 ...... 12
100 10 12
125 ······ 12
50 10 12
5
9
llO
9
180 50
100 20 12
100 ······ 12
80 ...... 18
1 12
100
110 ...... 12

50 ......
100 ..... .
1
105
5
100
80 25
60 ......
105 10

9
24
12
15
12
12
12

12
5
5
0
2
5
5
5

6

8
1
1

444

466
379
169
430
118

777

248
133
ggl'
"
"3
g
lO!i
80 ... .. 12

12
5 12
3 10
75
5 12
30 ... ....... ..

8
80
30

10

105 ......
105 25
50 ......
50 ......
80
5
50
3
80 ......
80
3
80 ......
80 ......
!50 ..... .

75 ......
100 ......
50 . .....
55 ......
75
1
50 ......
75 ..... .

9
12

9
9

101
9
9
15
12
9
10
12
lli
9

12
12
9
9

262
515
88
182
36
380
396

Q

~
z

ti

r'
0

ti

Q

172

t9
0

283
563
156

~

64
366
328
192
178
118
394

'%J

~
~

z

>

71
11 2

135
109
457

-.....
co

352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361

Mt. Diablo ...... .448 Concord ........... Contra Costa ...... ;
Park .•.•••.••••• 449 San Francisco ••...• San Francisco ••.•.•
Van Nuys ........ 450 Van Nuys ......... Los Angeles ...... ..
Montebello .••••• 45l Montebello ••.•••.•• Los Angeles •.••.•••
San Pasqual. .... .452 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ...... ..
Bethlehem •••.•• .453 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .....••
Crocker .......... 454Daly City ........... San Mateo ........ . .
Golden West .•.••. 455 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .....•.
Ramona ••.•...• .457 Monterey Park ...•.. Los Angeles •..•.•..
Henry S. Orme •.. 458 Los Angeles ....•.••• Los Angeles ••...•••

,,
''
''
''
"
Oct.

362 Riverbank ••.•••. 459
•....•... Stanislaus ....•.•...
363 Mount Oso .••••• .460 Rh-erbank
Tracy .. ·........... San Joaquin ........ Oct.
364 Argonaut .••••.•• 46~ San
Oct.
365 Paul Revere ..•.•. 462 San Franci9co ...•.. San Francisco ..•.•..
"
Ftancisco
...••.
San
Francisco
.••....
366 Morgan Hill •••... 463 Morgan Hili .•..•...
"
Santa
Clara
..•....•
367 Alta Vista .••... .464
"
San
Francisco
....•.
San
Francisco
.•••..•
368 Center .......... 465
"
369 Libertas .•••..... 466 Fresno ....••.•••... Fresno
"
Bakersfield
.•.••....
Kern
370 Culver City •..••.. 467
Oct.
371 Rockridge ••••••. 468 Culver City ......... Los Angeles .•..••..
"
372 Yorba Linda •••... 469 Oakland ....••.••.• Alameda •.. , •••..••
"
373 Lincoln .•..•..•. 470 Yorba Linda ..•..... Orange ............
Oct.
374 Delta •......•.... 471 San Francisco •••... San Francis·co ..• • ..
"
375 Maui ............ 472 Stockton ........... San Joaquin .......
"
376 Blythe ......... . .413 Kahului .........••. Hawaiian Ter......
"
377 Victory ..•.•.••• 474 Blythe ............. San Bernardino .. . .• Oct.
378 America .•......• 475 San Francisco ....•. San Francisco ......
"
379 Coachella .•..•.. .476 Los Angeles •.•...•. Los Angeles ••...••. Oct.
380 Temblor •....••.. 477 Coachella ..•....... Riverside ..........
"
381 Thousand Oaks ... 478 Fellows ......••...• ern ..••...........
"
Berkeley •....•••... Alameda ...•.......
382 Golden Rule ..•.•. 479 San Jose .••...•••.•
"
383 Fellowship ..... .480 Oakland .•.........• Santa Clara ........
"
Alameda
........•..
384 Mt. Davidson ..... 481 San Francisco .•• • .••
"
San
Francisco
•.••..
385 Clarence F, Smith .482 Los Angeles ........
"
Los Angeles .•......
386 Bell ............. 483
"
Bell
.......•••..•••.
387 Albert Pike ..... .484 Los Angeles ..•..... Los Angeles ........
"
Los Angeles .•..•...
388 Chowchilla ••..•.. 485 r:howchilla
"
.•.•.•...
389 Caledonia ....... 486 Bakersfield ......... Madera ............
"
390 Vallejo ......... .487 Vallejo .••.•.•••...• Kern
"
391 Patterson ....•... 488 Patterson .•.••.•••• Solano ...•.. , ......
"
Stanislaus ..••.••..•
392 East Bay ........ 48
"
393 Corcoran •••...•.. 490 South Berkeley •...• Alameda •••..•.•••.
"
••••••••••• Kings . ; .••.•.•••••.
394 Woodstock . . • • • . 491 Corcoran
"
Alameda .••.••••••• Alameda ..•.•.•••..
n
395 Garvanza , ..•.••. 492 Los
Angeles ••• • ••••
396 Atascadero •.•••. 493 Atascadero ....••.... Los Angeles ...•.••.
"
397 Acorn ..••••..•.. 494 Oakland ........... San Luis Obispo ..•..
"
Alameda· •..•••...•.

············
··············

··············

"

''

''
,," ''
'' "
'' ''
14, 1915.
"
"
" "
" "
" "

"

"
"

"

" ..
"
22,
12,

191.}
1916

"

" "
" "
" "
11, 1917.
"
"
"
"10, 1918.
"
"
"
"

"16, 1919.
"
"
14,
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

80
5
100 10
80
3
75
3
100 . , .
75 15
80 10
105 10
100
1301 25

''

"
1920.
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"ti
"
"

..

50 .... ..
9
80
6 12
80 ······ 12
100 iO 12
1
50
9
105 ...... 12
80 ......
9
100 ······ 12
100 ...... 12
100 10 12
50 ...... 12
100 10 12
80 ······ 12
5 12
50
5
75
9
80 10 121
100 25 12
75 ......
9
100 ...... 15
100
5 15

75 ······

1
80
105
80 ······
85 ······

......

75

15

I:)

12
18
9
9
12
12
12

50
1
100 ······
g
60 10
75
2 12
80
12
75 10 i2
&)
1 12
80 10
9
100
5 12
80 10 i2

······

12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

69
177
379
582
94
319
341\
268
268
396
141
326
323
J17
54
2::6
427
!lO
146
356
313
225
326
286
196
187
61
155
250
80
2f8
94
158
167

54

290

157
513
254
255
385

386
271
545
246
676

Cl

~

zti
I:"'
0

ti
0
"'1
0

"!l

!.?

...I:"'

"!l

0

z:ll

.....

>

00
\0

.,"
"
"
Oct.
............. ""
"
"
"
"
"
"

..............
···· ······

426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
456
457
458
459
460

50 .. ...
50 ......
80 47f
100 IO
100 5
80 ......
100 ......
80 IO
100 ......
80 ......
100 10
80 5
JOO 10

" "
" "
" "
" "
12, 1922

413 Cupertino ........ 510 Cupertino .........• Santa Clara ........•
414 Sunnyvale •.•.... 511 Sunnyvale . . ... . .... Santa Clara .. . ......
415 Palms .......•••• 512 Palms .....•... . .... Los Angeles ... . ....•
416 Cahuenga •• ••.. • . 513 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........•
417 Argonne .•....•.. 514 San Francisco
San Francisco ......
418 Vernon Square .•.. 515 Lo.s <Angeles ....... Los Angeles ....... •
419 Taft ........•••. 516 Taft
Kern .
420 Mount Vernon .... 517 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
421 La Joila . .... ..• . 518 San Diego .•........ San Diego ........•
422 Euclid ........... 519 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•.
423 Ionic . ..•.•..•... 520 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ... .....
424 Piedmont .•...... 521 Piedmont
Alameda ..........•
425 Sunrise ..••.••••. 522 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........

"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"

"

Bellflower ..••••. 523 Bellflower ......••.. Los Angeles ....... . October 12,
Catalina Island ... 524,Avalon .... ......... Los Angeles •...... .
"
"
Geo. Washington . 525 San li'rancisco .... . . San Francisco ..... .
"
"
Bay City .•...•... 526 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ... . . .
"
"
Covenant ..• .• .•• 527,Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •.......
"
"
Beverly Hills ..••. 5281Beverly Hills . . ..... Los Angeles ..... .. .
"
"
Loyalty ..••••... 529 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
1
"
"
Sun Garden . . •••• 5301Fresno .. ........... Fresno ... ..... . .. . .
"
"
Alexandria ... ... 531 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
"
Smyrna ....••... 532 Ceres .............. Stanislaus ........ .
"
"
Azure ......••..• 533 Fullerton .......... Orange ........... .
"
"
Forest Hill . ....•. 534 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
"
Alex. Hamilton ... 535 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
"
Seal Rock ...•.•.. 536 San Francisco ... . .. San Francisco .... . .
"
Utopia .......... 537 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
"
Ascot .....•. . .•. 538 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
"
Belvedere .......• 539 Belvedere . . . . .... . Los Angeles . . .. .. . .
"
"
Queen Beach ...... 540 Long Beach ...•..... Los Angeles ........ . October
11,
Henry Morse
Stephens ...... 541Berkeley .....•...... Alameda .. ......... .
"
"
Lankershim .•.... 542 North Hollywood . ... Los Angeles . •... . .. .
"
"
Signal .......... 543 Long Beach. . . • .. . .. Los Angeles ........ .
"
"
Glendale ...• •... 544Glendale ... .. • . .. ... Los Angele.s ........ .
"
"
Jonathan .....•.. 545·San Francisco ....... San Francisco ... . .. .
"
"
San Gabriel . .. .. . 546:San Gabriel. .....•.. Los Angeles .....••..
"
"
Arcadia •. .•..••• 5471 Arcadia ............ Los Angeles . .. .... ..
"
"
Triangle •.....•.. 548 Venice. • . . . . . . • . . . . Los Angeles . .. . • ....
"
"
Justice ......•••. 549San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
"
"
Seaport ...••...•. 550 San Francisco .....•. San Francisco .. . ... :
"
"
Lakeshore ••••••. 5511 Oakland .. . . . ........ Alameda .....•..•...
"
"
Semper Virens ••.. 552 Eureka ............. . Humboldt .......... .
"
"
Golden City •••••• 553 San Francisco .... ••• San Francisco ...... .
"
"
Educator .... .• .. 554 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
"
"
White Pine .....•. 555 Weed ............... Siskiyou ........ . .. .
"
"
Fairfax .......•.. 556Fairfax .... . ......•• Marin .............. .
"
Hermosa ......... 557JHermosa B each ..... Los Angeles .. ... . .. .
"

"

"

"

1!)22

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
,,"
"
"
"

"
"

"
1923
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

81
111
216
331
350
345

9
9
9
!l

12
9
15
12
12
9
9
12
10

55 .... ..
100 ... .. .
100 10
100 10
80 ......
125
5
100 .. ,..
80 ......
80
5
70
100 .. ....
55 10
80 10
100 10
100 10
80 30
80 .... ..
80 ...... '

t"l

1~5

223
125
2\ll
282
213
189

!l

12
8
12

9
12
!l

9
12
9
12
12
12
12

9
9
9
9

169
124

291
201
289
243
191
340
127
67
189

114
1 rn

ll6
449
226

205
118

80 . 5
100
5
80 ......
80
5
80
5
80 20

9
9
12
18
12
9

55 .....

12

75
5
80 25
100 Z.5
100
5
75 ......
80
5
80 .... ..
55
2
55 ......
80 10

105

15

119
162
165
207
120
83
178
90
99
156

12
12
15

12
12
12
9

12
211

265
229
324
423
177
150

filllzt;
r'
0
t;

Q

tr;
v

'%J

~

s

6
:i;i
z

>

-

00

N>

475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483

Shattuck .••.•. 5711 Berkeley .......•.••. Alameda ......•.....
Jam es Madison ... 579:[,os Angeles ......•.. Los Angeles ..•..... .
Hillcrest .•.••..• 57:f Berkeley ..• . ........ Alameda ..•.... • ....
S. W. Hackett • •• • 5741 San Diego. . . . . . . . . . San Diego ..••......
Fort Crook ••••••• 575 Fall River :Mills .... Shasta ..•....••.... .
El Cajon Valley •. 576 Ei Cajon ..... . ... , . San Diego ..........
Sunnyside .•••••. 577 Los Angeles ......•.. Los Angeles . ........
Progressive •••••. 578 Los Angeles ....•.... Los Angeles ........ .
Warren G.
HariliJJ.g .•...•. 579 'if orth Sacramento ... Sacramento ....•.... .
Santa Maria ••.••. 58() Ramona ...•..••.•..• San Diego ......•...

484 Security ••••.•••. 581 Bakersfield .......... Kern . . ...••....••..
485 Rialto .••. • ••••.. 582 Rialto: ....•••..••.. . San Bernardino .•... .
486 Wasco .••. • •••••• 583 Wasco . . ...•••.••••. Kern ............... .
487 Harding • .•• ••••. 584Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles . ...•..•.
488 :Manchester ••••.. 585 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ....•....
489 Garden Grove ••.•. 586Garden Grove . . .... . Orange ....••....••..
490 Valley Forge .•••• 587:Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles . . ..••...
491 El Sereno ..•••••• 588 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ... ..•...
492 Kauai ..••..••••. 589 Li hue. , ....... .... .. Kauai, T.H..........
493 Compass ••••••••• 590Pomona ...•..•...•.. Los Angeles ......•..
494 Escalon .•....•••. 591 Escalon ............. San Joaquin ........ .
495 Tujunga ••.••••.. 592 Tujunga . ........... . Los Angeles ....• ....
496 All States ....•••• 593.Long Beach ... .. ... . Los Angeles . ........
497 Service ...•..•••. 594 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles .........
498 Alexander Graham
1
Bell .. ... ...... 595,Los
Angeles., ••••••• LoB Angeles . ... ... ..
499 Guardian .•••.••• 596South Gate .......... Los Angeles .. . . .... ,
500 Truth ....•....•. 597ILos Angeles . .... .... Los Angeles . ........
501 Pearl Harbor .•.•• 598,Honolulu ..........•. Oahu, T. H •. .•..•.••
502 Carmelita ..•..••. 599 Pasadena ........•... Los Angeles ..... ....
503 Lynwood •.••••.. 600 Lynwood ............ Los Angeles .. . ......
1
504 Grizzly ••....•• •. 601.Portola
Plumas . . .. . ..•....•
505 :Melrose ••..•.••. 60a Los Angei~~ ·: : : : : : : : Los Angeles .•..•. ••
506 Dimond .. • • •• ••.. 603 Oakland
Alameda ...•..•..••
507 Jubilee •..•.••••. 604°Santa An~ .. ········ Orange ...........•.
508 GI~ssell Park ..••. 605 Los Angeles· : : : : : : : : Los Angeles •• .. .• .•
509 SoJourner •••••••. 6071:Monrovia ... .. .... . Los Angeles .......•
510 Granada .•••.•.•. 608 Alhambra .. .. ...... Los Angeles ••.•.•• .
511 Provident •.••••. 60!1 Sacramento .....•.. Sacramento •... • ...
512 Elmhurst ..•••••. 610 Oakland ......•.•••.. Alameda . ..•.••..••.
513 Canoga ....•••... 611 Canoga Park ..... . . Los Angeles ••...•••
514 Temple City .•.... 612 'Demple ... ..•••.•.. Los Angeles •.•.••••
515 Three Pillars .••• . 613 Sacramento ...•..•.. Sacramento ....•..•
516 Larchmont ....... 614 Los Angeles ...•.•.. Los Angeles .....•.•

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"

100 15

9
9
12
9
12
12
12
9

170
167
60
200
69
80
306
254

16

1924

"

"

...... ...... ......
50 ...... 12

122
54

16, 1924

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

" "
" "
15, 1925
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"

"
"
"
"

50 ......
lCO 431

"

"

01't.

"
"
"
"l t

75 5
80 10
80 .....
80 ......
50 1

"
"

"
"
"
"

100 .... ..

55 ......

80 ......
105 25
20
50 1
80 12 72
80
75 10
70 2

so

50 ......
50 3
80 ······

75 ······
80 5
95
······
130 50
80 15
100 ......
80 ......
50 10
100 10
60 1
100 1
80 ......
80 . .....
80 5
75 10
80 1
75 1

.

50 . ..
75 10

100125

121
9
12
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
9
9
9

197

12
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
12

148
224

l".l

8~

95
155
244
106
228
121
89
142

65
86
310
293

Q
::0

z>
tj

t"'
0
tj

9
12
9
18

96

131
15~

129
91
141
179
153
243
113
232
112
130
117
84
113
197

~
0

'>j

~
t"'
.....

'>j

0

::0

z

>

00
N

""

532
533.
·534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543

Ingleside ........ 630 San Francisco ..... . San Francisco . . . . . .
Benevolence ...• ~ 631 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles . ....... .
Normal Heights .• . 632 San Diego ... . .. ..... San Diego .. ..... . ...
Poinsettia ..••••. 633 S a n Buenaventura ... . Vent ura . ........ .. . .
Victorville •.•..•. 634 Victorville ........ . . San Bernardino. . . . . .
Riverside ......• . 635 Riverside .......... .. Riverside ...........
John Marshall .•. . 636 L os Angeles ..... .... Los Angeles . . . .... . .
Palisades .. • •.... 637 Santa M oni ca ....... . Los Angeles ... . . . . ..
Indian Rock .. . .. . 638 Ber kP.ley .... . ..... . . Alameda . . .. . . . .. ...
Composite ..... . . . 639 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.. ... ....
Veritas .... ." . . .. . 640 San Francisco. . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . . .
James A. Foshay .. 641 Los Angeles .. ... .... Sa nt a Barbara.. .. .. .

"
"
"
"
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

544 La Cumbre •..•• • . 642\Santa Barbara .. . .•.. Los Angeles .. . .. . . . .
545 Alta Loma . ; ..•.. 643 .ilig nal H ill .. .•• •... . Los Angel.es .....' . .. .
546 Lomita ..•...•••. 644 Lomita ...... . ...... . Los Angeles .. .. • . ...
547 A; F . E. Irwin .... 645 San P adro .... . ..... . Los Angeles ..... . ...
548 Metropolitan .•... 646 Los Angeles .. . .. . ... Los Angeles ..... .. ..
549 Hawthorne . • .... . 647 Hawthorne .. .. .. ... . Sa n Bernar dino ..... .
550 D am:iscus .... . •.. 648 :'Ian Bernardino .. .... Los Angefos . ........
551 Florence .. .• ...•• 649 Flor ence . . ... . . . ... . Los A ngeles ..... ... .
552 La Brea . . .. .. • • • . 650 Los Angeles .. . .. .••. San Mat eo ..... . ... .
553 M enlo P ark .. .. .. 651 Menlo Park ... . . .. .. Los Angeles ... . ... ..
554 Crescenta Valley .. 652 Mon t rose ... •.. •..... San B ernardino ... .. .
555 Fontana ........ . 653 Fontana . .... . . . .. . . . Los Angeles ..... . . . .
556 J ordan ...•••.•.. 654 Los Angeles .. . • ..... Los Angeles ..... . ...
557 Monte Vi st a ..... . 655 Long Beach . •.. . .. . . L os Angeles .. ... . . . .
558 Cit rol ... . ... .... 656 Br ea ... . ........ .. ·· · Oran ge . . ...... . . .. .
559 J ohn D. Spreckels . 657 San Diego ...... . .... San Diego .. .. .......
560 Livingston ••. • .. . 658 Livingston . . .. . .. • .. Merced . • ...•••. • •. •
561 L a Habra ...... . . . 659 La Habra ..... .. . ... Orange .. .. .. . . . . .. .
562 Baldwin P ark . •.. . 660 Baldwin P ark . . . ... . Los Angeles .. .. . . . . .
563 Malta .. . ..... . . 661 Los Angeles .. .. . .. .. Los Angeles .. . . .. .. .
564 H enry Knox ..... 662 Los Angeles ... . ... . . Los Angeles ....... .
565 Oja i . . . . . . . . . . . . 663 Ojai. . . ..... . . .. .... Ventura . ... .. .. . .. .
566 Oasis . . .. .. . . . . . 664 El Centr o . .. .. . ... . . Imperial. . .. . . . . ... .
567 K aweah .. . . .. . . 665 Woodlake ... . . . .. . .. Tulare . . .... ....... .
568 Reseda . . . .. .... 666 Reseda . . ... . . .. .... . Los Angeles . . . •. . .. .
569 · M eridian . . .. ... 667 Glendale ...... . . . ... Los Angeles ... •.....
570 Sa n Gorgonio. . . . 668 Ba nning . .. .. . . . . . .. Riverside .. ... . . ... .
571 J ohn P. J ar man . . 669 San Jose ... .. ... ... . San t a Clara . ... . ... .
572 Greenleaf .... . . : 670 Whittier . ... . . . . .. ·. . Los· Angel es ... • . . . .
573 Sa n Clement e .•.• 671 San Clemente ..... . . Orange . . ... .. . . . . ..
574 Laguna Beach . . • 672 Laguna Beach .. .. . . . Ora nge . ..... .... ...
575 Far West ........ 673 San Francisco .... . ~ . San Francisco . .• ....
576 Los Cerritos . .... 674 Long Bea ch .... . .. . . L os Angeles . .• .••... .
577 M odesto . . . . . . . . 675 M odesto . . ...... . ... Stanislaus ........ . • .
578 Willow Glen . . .... 676 Willow Glen ....... • Santa Cla r a . .. ... . .•
579 Liberal Arts .... .. 677 L os A ngeles . . . . . .... Los Angeles . •.. . ...•
580 A ltaden11> . .• .••.. . 678 Pasadena . ... .. ..... Los Angeles . ....•..•

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"
"
..",
"

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

"
"
"
"
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

14, 1926

" " .
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
13, 1927
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
11, 1928
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"< i "
"

10, 1929

"
" "
" "
16, 1930
" "
" "

"

105 . . . . . .
80 ... ..
60 .. ....
100 ......
55 10
50 .. . :..
80
5
80 ... ...
80
5
100 101
100 10
105 ..... .

24
12
12
20
9
9
9
12
12
12
1t
12.

27
lOO
75t····
.... ..
.. 12
80 .... .. 12
12
80 5
100 25
9
80 3
9
55 5
9
75 4~
9
9
100 10
75 4U 12
12
55 5
55 10
9
9
75 ···· ··
50 ... ... 12
50 1
12
80 .. . :.. 12
50 ··· ·· · 15
50 .... ..
9
50 ...... 12
9
100 ......
9
100 10
15
75 .....
100 11111 12
75 ······ 10
9
75 ······
95 ...... 18
12
75 1
50 5
9
55 ......
9
100 ......
9
J .. 9
50
75 10 12
. 80 ....
12
I
50
9
50 .......
9
80 ...... 10
80 ....... 12

100
135
177
204
90
111
108
184
84
111
68
77

67
253
98
112
100
64
166
166
177
62
93
81
135
204
179
249
61
123
66
97
108
48
68
44
64
177
54
61
124
38
52
78
64
!l3
58
45
86

Tot a l m ember ship, 193 1 returns .•. .. • •••.. •. ••• .• • 1 42,422

Q

:ti

>
z
lj

t'
0

lj
Q
t:<.1

0

':J

Q

>
t'

:;j
0
:ti

z
.....

>

00
N

Vt

36
39

Butte .....•....... Bidwell .......... Butte .... : . • ..... May
Yub&> ............. Marysville ..•.•.• Yuba ............ May

47 Michiglrn City .... Michigan Bluff .... Placer .... .• . . ... May
48 Grass Valley . : .... Grass Valley .•..•. Nevada ..•.. ... .. May
49 Lebanon ... •. •.... San Francisco .... . San Francisco ..... May ·
52 Rough and Ready . . Rough and Ready. Nevada .......... May
53 Franklin ..... .. . .. Sacramento ... , •. . Sacramento ...•... May
54 Saint James .....• . Jamestown .. , .... Tuolumne ........ May
62 Geo. W ashingtoil .. . Chinese Camp .... Tuolumne ..•..... May
63 Iowa Hill ........• Iowa Hill ........ Placer ........•.. May

3, 1854 Sept. 3, 1864 Surrendered.
l".l
3, 1854 June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian Ne
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
3, 1854 Oct. 15, 1897 Surrendered.
3, 1854 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
3, 1854 June 29, 1857 Revoked.
3, 1854 Nov.,
1864 Surrendered.
3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Feb. 20, 1857 Surrendered.
8, 1856 Sept. 15, 1919 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
3, 1855 Oct. 29, 1857 Surrendered.

2, 1855. ~ay
2, 1855 jMay

14, 1859 SQrr!lnd!l"l'ed.
2, 1855 Name ~he,nged to Corinthian No.
69.
1874 Consolidated with Maeysville No.
2,
1855
!Dec.,
69 Corinthian ....... Marysville ... : .• Yuba ........... May
9, as Corinthian No. 9..
2,
1855
lct.
15,
1887
Coneol~dated
with Ione No. 80.
71 Nebraska .••••••• Micihig1m llar .•.. Sacramento ...•.• MaY
2, 1855 Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
T2 E. K. Kane ...... , .Nevad& ......... Nevada ......... May
0
27, 1859 Surrendered.
73 Tyro •••••••• •••• Prytown .......• Amador .....••.• l(ay 2, 1855 ec.
::0
15,
1857•
.
.
•
•
.
•
.
.
.
.
.
•
•
.
Charter
never
issued.
l'ranklin ••••.•••• Meaclow Valley ••• Plumas ..•••.. .• ~y
z>
3,
1855
Aug.
29,
1857
SurrelJ.«lered.
H Wisconsin Hill .• •• Wisconsin Hill •.. Placer •...••.... May
0
1870 Surrendered.
'l5 Mo\lntain Forest. ; Eure.ka North .•• • Sierra •.•.••.•••. :May 2, 1855 May
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No. t"
'l1 Petaluma ........ Petaluma. • ....... Sonoma . . • • .. . • . fl.Y
180 as Peta,luma No. 180.
18, 1861 Surrendered.
Q
82 :Mountain .•.••••• Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne ..•.•.. MaY 8, 1856 IMay
3, 1919 Consolidated with Eureka No. 16. l".l
83 Rising Star .•••••• Forest Hill .•. •••• Placer .•..•••••• May 8, 1865 Sept. 17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No. O
8, 1856 Oct.
85 Indian Diggings. • • Indian Diggings .. El Dorado ...•... May
115 as St. Mark's No. 85. ·
':tj
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
~
86 Saint Louie •••••• • Rowland's Flat .•. Sierra ..•...•••• May 8, 1856 !Nov.,
No. 158.
t"
8, 1856 Name change.d to Quitman.
:;;J
88 Unity ••••••••••• Orleans Flat ..••. Nevada . . . • • .. . • • ay 8, 1856 May 13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13. o
88 Q\litman •.••••••• North Bloomfield. Nevada •..•••.• , May 8, 1856 Oct.
8, 1858 Surrendered.
~
90 Polar star ........ Poorman'& Creek. Plumas ......... . -~y 8, 1856 May 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No. ;;:
92 Ae&cia •.•••••• .•• Coloma ••• • ••••• El Dorado .•••••• May 8, 1856 March
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
8,
1856
!Oct.
10,
1867
Remov
ed and name cliang11d to
la3 Caymu1 .......... Yountville ...... Napa ........... :Ma~
St. Helena.
24, 1859 Surrendered.
94 Mount Hermou •••• Elizabethtown •.• Plumas .....•.••• Mar 8, 1856 IDec.
8, 1924 Consolida.ted with Howard No. 96,
96 3t. John's ..... , •• Yreka ........ : .. SiskiyQii ·..... ~ . : • Mar 3, 1854 IDec. .
as Howard No. 37.
19, 1926 Consolidated with For'bestown
8,
1856
July
97 Jeffe1son •.•.••••• , La Porte ••••••••• Plumas .....•..... May
No. 50.
00
~

17 Minnesota ••••••• :Minnesota •.•.••• Sie:rra .......... , ~11,y
69 Ind. Royal Areh.; Marysville •.•••• Yuba . . •.•...••. May

g

Folsom ..•.•••••• Folsom •..•••••.. Sacramento •.•... Feb.
Vallecito ••.••••• Vallecito ..•.•..• Calaveras ••..•.• May
Ionic ..•..••••••• Iowa Hill .....•.• Placer ......•..• May
125 Progress .....•••• San Francisco .... San Francisco ...•
130 Unity ...•••..••• San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May
133 Yosemite •••.•••• Coulterville ...• .•. Mariposa ..••.•.. May
118
121

137
138

HI

14, 1857* Ja.a.
13, 1858 Jan.
13, 1858 Oct.
1858 Oct.
13, 1859 May
13, 1859 Oct.

28, 1858 Charter never issued.
5, 1859 urrendered.
8, 1905 'urrendered.
14, 1870 evoked.
13, 1863 evoked.
16, 1913
nsolldated with La Grange No. 99,
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
Oro Fino ......... Oro Fino .. . .....• Siskiyou .. .... .• May 10, 1860 I.June,
1862 urrendered.
Violet ............ Spanish Flat .. ;; ; El Dorado ....... May lo, 1860 Oct.
16, 1879 urrendered.
Colusa .••.••••••• Colusa .. •:. . -. -. ·.·.-. Colusa . , ...•..•• May 10, 1860 April
1, 1882 onsolidated with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.

~

I

2, 1865 Surrendered.
17, 1861 Charter not issued.
10, 1902 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
151
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
152 Josephus ..•...••• Brush Creek ..•... Butte ••......... May 15, 1862 Oct.
16, 1864 Surrendered.
153 Rising Sun ..•.••• Brandy City ..•.. Sierr a .... ...•. . May 15, 1862 July
IM Carson •.•..•..•.. Carson City ...... Nevada Ter ...... May 15, 1862 .l uly 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
.
155 Mount Carmel. .••• Red Dog ........• Nevada ......... May 14, 1863 Aug. 16, 1872 Surrendered.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction · of Nevada.
157 Washoe ....••.•.• Washoe City .... • Nevada Ter ...•.. May 14, 1863 Jan.
15, 1908 Consolidated with Jeffe rson No. 97.
158 · Gibsonville .•••.• Gibsonville • •.. .. Sierra ..........• May 14, 1863 Oct.
159 Gilroy ..••••••••• Gilroy ..•.....•• Santa Clara ..•.. . May 14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 Surrendered.
160 Pilot Hill ......... Pilot llill ........ El Dorado .... . .. May 14, 1863 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Georgetown No. 2ii.
162 Virginia City .••.. Virginia City••• •• Nevada Te" .... .. May 14, 1863 Jan. 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
163 Silver City .••.••• Silver City ...•... Nevada Ter ...... May 15, 1863 Jan.
165 Silver Star .••.••. Gold Hill ........ Nevada Ter ...... Oct. 13, 1864 Jan. 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
170 Esmeralda ..••••• Aurora .........• Nevada Ter ...... Oct. 13, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
171 Escurial ......... Virginia City .... Nevada Ter ...... Oct. 13, 1864 Jnn.
112 · Lander .. : .••.••• Austin .. .. ...... N evada Ter ...... Oct. 14, 1864 .Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
1, 1864 Charter never issued.
Alpine •....•••••• Markleeville .... Alpine .......... May 25, 1864* Oct.
175 Claiborne •.•••••. Antioch .....•... Contra Costa ..... Oct. 12, 1865 .............. Name changed to Antioch.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
176 M erced ••••.••••. Snelling •........ Merced ......... Oct. 12, 1865 Oct.
177 Aztlan ••.•...•••• Prescott .. ... .... Arizona Ter ...... Oct. 11, 1866 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
1898 Consolidated ~ ith Petaluma No
180 Arcturas •••.••••• IPetaluma •.. . ..• !Sonoma ....•....• IOct. 11, 1866 !Dec.,
77 as No. 180.
16, 1919 Name changed to Arbuckle.
182 Meridian •• , • , , , • Arbuckle ••••••• Colusa ••..•.•.•• Oct. 10, 1867 Oct.
185 Arenas .....•.••.. P unta Arenas ... . Mendocino . ••. . . Oct. 10, 1867 ...•.......... Name changed to Claiborne.
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
189 Latrobe .. -•..••••• Latrobe ..•..•..• El Dorado ....... Oct. 15, 1868 Dec.,
197 Paradise ... .••• • . Haywards ..... .. Alameda ..•..... Oct. 14, 1869 July 20, 1872 Surrendered.
Rocklin ..•.... . •. locklin .....•..• P lacer ........••. Jnly 30, 1870* . ....•. .. .... : Charter never issued.
12, 1889 Revoked.
213 Bodega ........• . Bodega . . ...•... Sonoma ......... Oct. · 14, 1871 Oct.

H8 San Luis Obispo . • • ,San Luis Obispo .. ,Rai:. Luis Obispo . . ,May 16, 1861 IDec.

Doric ..........•.. North Fork . . .... Trinity ....... .. . . Jan. 11, 1861 May
Palmyra ..•..•••• Placerville •..•.• El Dorado ..•• .•. May 16, 1862 Oct.

O

~

z
ti
t1
0
ti

0

l'-.1
0
'::!

~

s::'::!

0
::0

z

:;

00

~

270 l'all R~ver • . • • • • • ufgettville .... , Sha.s ta ..•..•••.• Oct.

11, }883 Oct.

276 Westport •••••••• Westport ........ Mendocino ..•.... Oct. 16, 1884 May
284 Tyrian ••••••••••• Dunuigan ........ Yolo ..•••••••••. Oct. 14, 1886 Oc.t.
'98 Mo.kelumne Hill ... Mojielumne Hill. , Calavera11 ....... Oct. 16, 1890 ; >trc.
311 Huenell\e ••.••••• Hueneme •.••.••• Ventura ...•••.•• Oct. 12, 1892 Oct.
340 Banta Maria ..•••• Santa Maria.... .. anta Barbara •.•. Oct. P. l!IOO
t.
lH2 Manila........... Manila .••••••••• Philippine Islands Oct. 10, 1901 Dec.
350

Cavite ..•••.••.•• Cavite .•..••••• , Philippine Islands Oct.

151 1903 Dec.

........ Oct. 13, 1904 Oct.

364

Olivet ..•...•.. . .• Corning ••... .. ... Tehama

371

Oceanic ....•..... Honolulu . •..••.•. Oahu, T. H ..... . . Oct.

1186

Corregidor •.•.•..• Manila

12, 1905 Oct.

......... Philippine Islands Oct. 10, 1907 Dec.

398 Fowler ..•••••••. Fowler ••.••..... Fresno •..••••••. Oct.
432 Granite No. 222 ••• Rockiin •••.••••• Placer •••••••••• Oct.

15, 1908 Oct.
11, 1872 May

438 Germania
Lo.'3 Angeles ••••. Lo.9 Angeles •••• Oct.
456 :Kennett •••••••••• Kennett •••.••••• . Siskiyou .•.••.••. Oct.

16, 1913 Oct.
14, 1915 Dec.

611 Owensmouth ...•.. Canoga Park ..... Los Angeles. . . . . Oct.

15, 1925 Oct.

........

::i:
10, 1895 Revoked.
tzl
26, 1888 Surrendered.
11, 1911 Con~lidat.ed with Woodland No.156
~6, l,91$ Consolidated with Cala,ver,as No. 78.
}6, l902 Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341.
13, 1910 Consollda~\l with Hes~rlan No. 264.
i9, 1912 Transferred. to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
19 1912 Ti:ansferred to jurisdiction of
'
Philippine Islands.

1, 1917 Consolidated -with Newville No.
205, M Olivet No. 205.
12, 1916 Name changed to Li! Progres
de l' Oceanie No. 371.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philipph1e Islands.
14, 1915 Consolidated. with Selma No. 277.
29, 1919 Consolidated with Roseville No.
t;l
432, as Roseville No. 222.
~
10, 1918 Name changed to Acacia•
ztj
18; 1925 Consolidated with Beading,
No. 254.
t'
15, 1931 Name changed to Canoga.
0

8
~

•Date of disrenAation.

~

§
=
~

>

CIO

w
.....

1~96

833

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

l 8TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

Year
Elected.
1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874
1876
1876
1877
1878
1879
. 1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ,

832

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson .. . •John A. Tutt .•• , .• ,. •Caleb Fenner.
•John A. Tutt .. ......... .. •Benjamin D. Hyam.. •E. F . W. Ellis.
•Benjamin D. Hyam .....• •Charles M. Radclltr .• . •Adolphus Hollub.
•Charles M. Radcliff ...... •Townsend A. Thomas •John R . Crandall.
•William H . Howard .•... •Nathaniel G. Curtis.. •Rec tor E. Cole.
•William H. Howard ••.• • •Townsend A. Thomas •John A. Raymond.
•William H . Howard ...•• •John A Raymond ..... •Lemuel Lyon.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis . .•..• •Charles Marsh • . . • . . • •Aaron D. Park.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis . ..••. "Philip W. Shepheard. •WllJlam McCormick.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ..••.. •Philip W. Shepheard. "Ebenezer Lane.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ..••.. "Philip W . Shepheard. •WIJJlam C. Belcher.
•Jamee L. English ........ •w1111am C. Belcher.. •John W . . HarvlJJe.
•William C. Belcher ..•... •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •John W. Harvllle.
•Wiiiiam C. Belcher ..... . •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •Louis Cohn.
•William C. Belcher ..... . "Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •WIJJlam A. Davies.
•Gilbert B. Claiborne .... . "William A. Davies. .. •Isaac S. Titus.
•Gilbert B . Claiborne .... . •Henry H. Hartley. . .. •w rn. H. Peterson.
•Wllllam A. Davies ...... . •Henry H. Hartley.... "Thomas Beck.
•Charles Marsh .......... . •Leonidas E . Pratt.... •Theodore G. Cockrill
•Leonidas E. Pratt ...•.... •Isaac S. Titus ......... •John S. Ward.
•Leonidas E. Pratt. ..... .• •Isaac S. Titus ........ •Charles L. Wiggin.
•Leonidas E. Pratt. .....•. •Charles L . Wiggin. .. •Benj. H. Freeman.
•Leonidas E . Pratt. ......• •Benj. H. Fret>man... •George C. Perkins.
•Isaac S. Titus . .... .... ..
•George C. Perkins. •John M. Browne.
•George C. Perkins ....... .. •John M. Browne..... •William B. Parker.
•John M. Browne .. ... . ..• •Charles L . Wiggin... •Wiley J. Tinnin.
•John M . Browne ......• . . •Charles L . Wiggin .•• •wm1am S. Wells.
•John M. Browne .... ..... •Charles L. Wiggin .•. "William W. Traylor.
•John M . Browne . •... . .. . •William W. Traylor. . "William H. Crane.
•William W. Traylor..... . •Samuel C. Denson . ... •Clay W. Taylor.
•Samuel C. Denson., .... . •Clay W. Taylor ...... •John Q. Adame.
•Clay W. Taylor . ........ . •John Q . Adame...... •Jonathan D. Hlnea.
•cJay W. Taylor ....... ; .. •Jonathan D. Hines.. . "Edtnund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines .... .. •Wiley J. Tinnin ... .•. "Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines .....• •Wiley J. Tinnin .... .. "E dmund C. Atkinson,
•Wiley J. Tinnin .. , ......• •Edmund C. Atkinson. •Hiram N. Rucker.
•Edmund C. Atkinson .. . . . • H iram N. Rucker .... •Morris M. Estee.
•Hiram N . Rucker ..••.•.. •Morris M. Estee ....• •AJvah R . Conklin.
•Morrie M. Estee ... ... : .. "Alvah R. Conklin ..• • •WIJJlam Johnston
•Morrie M. Estee . ..•..... •w1mam .Johnston. .. . •Charles R. Gritman.
•AJvah R. Conklin ........ . •William Johlll!lton.... •Charles R. Gritman.
"William Johnston ....... . •Cha rles Ray Gritman. •Henry S. Orme.
"Charles R. Gritman ,_. ..• •Henry S. Orme...... . •James B. Stevens.
•Henry S. Orme ... .....• . . •James B. Stevens.... •Edwa rd M. Preston.
•James B. Stevens .. .... .. •Edward M. Preston .. *WIJJlam T. Lucas.
·~dward. M. Preston .. .-•• • *Wllllam T. Lucas....
Thomas Flint.

*Deceased

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer,

Grand
Secretary.

•sashel Woods ........ •Levi Stowell .... ...... •John H. Glhon .......
•Benj. S. Olds . . . • .•.•• •Townsend A. Thomas. •Levi Stowell ..•...• •••
•John R. McConnell ... "Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
•Richard F. Knott .... "Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell .. . ..... ..
•Robert N . Wood ..... •Addison Martin. , .... •Levi Stowell ........ ..
•Samuel A. Merritt. .. •Addison Martin ...... •Lev! Stowell ........ ..
•Peter W. Randle ... .. •Addison Ma rtin ...... •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John B. Bope ........ •Addison Martin ...... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•James W . Bicknell ... •Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
"Thomas P. Hawley •. •Addison Martin ...... •AJex G. Abell .. . .... .
•AJvlnza Hayward . .. . •Addison Martin . . ... . •Alex G. Abell ..••••••
•Caleb E. Wilcoxon .. . •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John B. Hewson .. . .. •James Laldley . ....... "Alex G. Abell .. .... . .
"William A . Davies . .. •James Laldley ....... . •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Isaac S. Titus . ....... •Jamee Laldley ........ "Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Henry H. Hartley .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Thomas B eck ....... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Leonidas E . Pratt .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... . .
•Frederick F. Bares ... •James Lald!ey ...... .. •AJex G. Abell ...... ..
•Richard Dale ........ •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Benj. H. Freeman ... •James Laldley ...... .. •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Geo. C. Perkins ...... •James Laldley ...... .. •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•John M. Browne ... .. •Jamee Laldley .... . ... "Alex G. Abell ...... ..
*Chas. E. Mitchell .... •James Laldley ... ..... •Alex G. Abell .... . .. .
"Wiley J . Tinnin ..... •.Jamee Laldley ........ •AJex G. Abell ...... ..
•Jacob H. Netr .. ...... •Jamee Laldley ........ •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Solon W . Craigue ...• •James Laldley ........ •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•wm. H . Crane ....... . •Moses Heller . . ,, ••••• •Alex. G. Abell •••••...
•Robert C. Broder ... . •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•John Q. Adame , ..... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Orrin W. Hollenbeck . •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Thomae J. Bowers .. . •Moses Heller .. . , ...• , •Alex. G. Abell .. ... • . .
•George Hinde • ..•• , .. •Moses Heller ..• , ••.. . •Alex. G. Abell ...••••.
"Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ........ . •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ....... ',
•Henry H. Knapp ..... •Nathan w. Spaulding. •AJex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Atvah R . Conklin .... •Nathan W . Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•wm. Johnston ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Marcus D. Boruck ., . •Nathan W. Spaulding . •Alex. G. Abell ••.•.•. .
•Henry S. Orme . ..... •Nathan W . Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .•••••..
•Henry S. Orme .. , ... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson .... . .
•James B. Stevens .• •• •Natha n W. Spaulding. •George J ohnson .. . .. .
•Edward M . Preston .. •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson . . ... .
*Wm. T. Lucas .. .... . • Edward C'oleman ..... •George Johnson .... ..
Thomas Fllnt ........ •Edward C'oleman .... . •George Johnson .. .. ..
Frank M. Angellotti .. • Edwa rd Coleman .... . • George Johnson .. .. ..

•Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

835

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

834

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE
Junior
Grand Warden.
Year.
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
l:i02
1903
1904
1905
1906
l907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Ma•ter.

*William T. Lucas........ Thomas Flint. ... .... .
Thomas Flint.............. Frank M. Angellotti ..
Frank M. Angellotti...... •Charles L. Patton .. ..
•Charles L. Patton ........ •James A. Foshay .... .
•James A. Foshay......... •William S. Wells .••.•
•William S. Welle......... Orrin S. Henderson .•
Orrin S. Henderson •..••• *Charles W. Nutting ..
*Charles W. Nutting .....• •George W. Hunter•••
•George W. Hunter .•••••• *Motley H. Flint .••.••
*Motley H. Flint. ....... .. *Edward H. Hart •••..
*Edward H. Hart. .•.••••• Geo. M. Perine .••••••
George M . Perine •.•••••• *Reuben H. Lloyd . ••• •
Oscar Lawler ........... . *W. Frank Pierce •.. . ..
•w. Frank Pierce .•.•.. •• • Dana R. Weller .••••.•
Dana R. Weller •.•..•.... •Alonzo J . Monroe .••.
•Alonzo J. Monroe .••..•.• Wm. P . Filmer ......
Wm. P. Filmer ......... . John D. Murphey ...•
John D. Murphey •.•.•••• Benj. F. Bledsoe ..•..
Benj. F . Bledsoe ....... .. •Albert G. Burnett ..••
•Albert G. Burnett .....••. Francis V. Keesling ..
Francis V. Keesling ...... Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .•..• Bradford Webster •.•
Bradford Webster ....... . Charles A. Adams ...•
Charles Albert Adams ..• George F. Rodden .•..
George F. Rodden ...•.•.• Samuel E. Burke . .••
Wlllia.m A. Sherman.
Samu·el E. Burke .•.••••..
Arthur S. Crites .....
William A . .Sherman .....
David J. Reese ..••.••
Arthur S. Crites •• ••..•••
David J . Reese . ........ . Albert E. Boynton . ..
Albert E. Boynton ...... . George L. Jones .•••.
Wlll H. Fischer .....•
George L. Jones ......... .
Gustav A. Huta fl' ... ,
Will H. Fischer . ......• . .
Gustav A. Hutafl' ....... . Chas. M. Wollenberg
Chas. M. Wollenberg . • ..• John Stewart Ross ..•
John Stewart Ross ...•.•• Robert B. Gaylord ••.• •
Robert B . Gaylord ...... . Frank W. Mlxter .. . .

Grand Trea•urer.

Grand
l:.ecturar.

Senior
Grand Warden.
Frank M. Angellotti.
•Charles L . Patton
•James A. Foshay.
*William S. Wells.
Orrin S. Henderson.
*Charles W. Nutting.
•George W. Hunter.
*Motley H. Flint.
*Edward H. Hart.
George M. Perine.
•Reuben H. Lloyd.
Oscar Lawler.
Dana R. Weller.
•Alonzo J. Monroe
Wm. P. Filmer.
John D. Murphey.
Benj. F . Bledsoe.
*Albert G. Burnett
Francis V. Keesling.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
Bradford Webster.
Charles A. Ad·ame.
George F. Rodden.
Samuel E. Burke.
William A. Sherman
Arthur S. Crites.
David J . Reese.
Albert E . Boynton
George L . Jones. ·
Will H. Fischer.
Gustav A. Hutafl'
Chas. M. Wollenberg.
John Stewart Ross.
Robert B. Gaylord
Frank W. M.lxter.
James B. Gist.

•Edward Coleman ....•
•Edward Coleman .•••
•Edward Coleman ..•.•
•Edward. Coleman .••.•
"Edward Coleman ..•• .
*Edwara Coleman ..•.•
"Edward Coleman .••.•

•Deceased.

•Deceased.

Grand
Secretary

Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomae J. Baker.
Thomae J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker
Thomae J'. Baker
Thomae J'. Baker.
Thomas J'. Baker.
Thomas J . Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.

836

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alberta ................ J. H. W. S. Kemmis ....... Calgary
BrazilThe Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro
The Grand Lodge of the State of Panahyba
The Grand Lodge of 'Sao Paula
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Para
British Columbia ....... W. A. De Wolf-Smith ...... New Westminster
Canada (Ontario) .......Wm. M. Logan ..•.......• .Hamilton
Santiago, Chili
Chili ....•..............Rudolfo C. Oliveira ........ Cassila No. 2867
ColombiaNational Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Apartado 333
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota
Costa Rica . .. .......... G. F . Bowden ...........•. San Jose
Cuba .................. Dr.Jose l<,. Castellanos ..... Habana
Czecho-SlovakiaThe Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings
The National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia·
Both Seated at Prague.
Denmark .............. P.O. Rosenorn .... ..... •.• Blegamsuej 23,
Copenhagen
Ecuador ..........•..•. Dr. M. A. Jijon .......••.. Guayaquil
Egypt ....... .. ........ Abd El Maguid-Younis ..... Freemason 's Hall,
6 Fouad 1 St.,
Cairo.
England .....••••..•••• .17. Colville Smith ...... . ...London
Fr1mce (Grand Lodge of) Auguste Viet .......... . .. 8, rue Puteaux,
Paris
Independer,t National G. F. Beaumont, 42 ........ Rue D RocheGrand Lodge of France
caouart, Paris
German Grand Lodges
National Mother Grand Lodge of the Three Globes
Grand Lodge of Hamburg
Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship
National GTand Lodge of all German Free Masons
Grand Lodge '' Zur Sonne'' Bayreuth

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

837

Guatemala ..............Francisco .S'a lazar ....... . Guatemala ·
Honduras ..••••..•..••• M. F. Rodriguez .......... Tegucigalp~
Ireland ...•..•......... Henry C. Shellard ....••... Dublin
Holland (Netherlands) . .A. E. L. Faubel. •...•..... Fluweelen
Burgwal 22
The Hague
Manitoba .....•........ J. A. Ovas ............•...Winnipeg
Mexico (York Grand
Lodge) . . ... . ..... . . A. Percival Hughes ........ Apartado 1986,
Mexico City, Mexico, D. F.
MexicoGrand Lodge of the Pacific.
Mexico, D. F.
Postal 20, Guaymas, Sonora.
New Brunswick ......•. J. Twining Hartt .......... Saint John
New South Wales . ..... Arthur H. Bray ... . ...... .Sydney
New Zealand .. . .... .• ..George Barciay .....• ... .. .Chri_stchurch
Norway ............... .E. Lowig-Hansen .......... Oslo
Nova Scotia . .. .......• James C. Jones .. . .....• .. Halifax
Panama ............ .. . .Jose Oller .......• .. ...... Panama
Peru .....•.....•.......Gerardo Alania .·.......... Lima
Philippine Islands •.••.. Newton C. Comfort .....•.. Manila
Porto Rico .............Jose G. Ginorio ........ ... San Juan
Prince Edward Island .. E. T . . Carbone!. .. ........ . Charlottetown
Quebec ...... . ......... .W.W. Williamson.' ....... . Montreal
Queensland .............Chas. H. Harley ..... ...... Brisbane
Saskatchewan ..••.•..•• W. B. Tate .....•..•..•... Regina
Scotland ..............• Thomas G. Winning ..••.•. . Edinburgh
Serbes, Croates and
Slovenes ..•......... 8. Chokorah ............ . . Beograd, Jugoslavia.
South Australia ........ Chas. R. J. Glover ..... . ... .Adelaide
Sweden ..... ....... .... Yneve G. Wisin ...... .. ... Frimurarelogen,
Stockholm
Switzerland-·
The Swiss Grand Lodg~Alpina
Arnold Raschle, Grand Secy., Zurich, 18
Tasmania .... • . ... ..... W. H. Strutt. : .......... . .Hobart
Victoria ............... .W. Stewart . ....... . ...... Melbourne
Vienna .... . .. ... .•. . .. Wladimir Misar ........•.. 1 Dorotheergasse
12, Vienna.
Western Australia ... . ..J. D. Stevenson ........... Perth

839

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

838

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Post Otrlce.
County.
Lodge.
No.
A. E. F. Irwin .••••• 645 San Pedro .............. Los Angeles,
Abell .•..•••.••••.. 146 Ukiah .................. Mendocino.
Acacia ••.••.••.•..• 438 Los Angeles .••.•.•••••• Los Angeles.
Acorn •..••• .•••. ... .494 Oakland .. ..•...•.•••.••• Alameda.
Adin •••••••.•.•••. 250 Adin .........••.•.•• ·••• Modoc.
Alamo •••.•.••......• 122 Walnut Creek ........•• Contra Costa.
Alameda •.•• .•..•••• 167 Centerville ......••.•..• Alameda.
Albert Pike ..•••... 484 Los Angeles .•.......• ·.. Los Angeles.
Alcatraz ••••...••.. 244 Oakland ••••..•..•••..• Alameda.
Alexandria •••••...• 531 San Francisco .••••••••• San Francisco.
Alexander Graham
Bell ...... ......... 595 Los Angeles •....•...... Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton. 535 Los Angeles .•..•....••..• Los Angeles.
Alhambra •...•..••• 322 Alhambr.a ................ Los Angeles.
Alisa! •••••.•••••••. 321 Pleasanton ...•.•...•.... Alameda.
All States .......... 593 Long Beach •..•......... Los Angeles.
Alpha ............. 431 Richmond .•............. Contra Costa.
Alta ..•.••...•...•. 33a Bridgeport ••....•.••..• Mono.
Altadena ...•.•• , •. , 678 Altadena ..........•.... Los Angeles.
Alta Vista .•.•.••••.. 464 San Francisco .•......... San Francisco.
Alta Loma •.••...•• , •644 Signal Hill .•....••......Los Angeles.
Alturas ............ 248 Alturas .••••.••..•••..•. Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco .....•.... San Francisco.
Amador ............ 65 Jackson ................ Amador.
America •.••• '"" ... 475 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Anaheim .....•••••.• 207 Anahe!m ...............• Orange.
Anchor •...•••..••. 273 Compton ................ Los Angeles.
Angeles Mesa .•.•••. 6!5 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Antioch • ., .••.•••..• 175 Antioch ................. Contra Costa.
Apollo ............. 396 Alameda ................ Alameda.
Areadia •.•...••... 547 Arcadia ....... ·......... ·Los Angeles.
Arbuckle .......... 182 Arbuckle ................ Colusa.
Arcata ••••.•••.••• 106 Arcata .................. Humboldt.
Argonaut •..... , ••. 461 San Francisco .......... San ·Francisco.
Argonne ••• , •.•. , •. 514 San Francisco ...•....... San Francisco.
Arroyo ............ 27·4 Arroyo Gmnde .......... San Luis ·Obispo.
Arlington ••• . •. , ••• 414 Los Angeles .......•...• Los Angeles.
Artesia •.•... , ..•.. 377 Artesia ......... , ....... Los Angele1.
Ascot ...........•.. 538 Los Angeles ............• Los Angeles.
Ashlar ••.•..••••••. 306 Colton .................. San Bernardino.
Atascadero .•••••• .493 Atascadero .........•..•• San Luis Obispo.
Athens •••..••••••. 228 Davis , , ..•.•.•...••••••• Yolo.

Lodge.

No.

Post Ottlce.

County.

Atwater ............ 622 Lo~ Angeles .....••....•• Los Angeles.
Azure .............. 533 Fullerton ...........•... Orange.
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa .........•.••.••••• Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Baldwin Park •••.••• 660 Baldwin Park .••........ Los Ang.ales.
Bay City .......... 526 San Francisco ..•...•... San Fran.ciseo.
Bay View ..... , ..••.. 401 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Beacon of the West .. 628 Los Angeles ..•••••.•••• Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain ...... 76 Angels Camp ............ Calaveras.
Bell ..•.......•••. .483 Bell ................... Los Angeles.
Bellflower ......... 523 Bellflower .....•..•.•.• Los Angeles.
Belvedere ••.•.•••.. 539 Lo.s Angeles ••••..•••••• Los Angeles.
Benevolence .•..•••. 631 Los Angeles ..•..........Los Angeles.
Benicia . . • . . • . . . . . . 5 Benicia ................ Solano.
Benj. · Franklin ...... 509 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Berkeley •........•. 363 Berkeley ............••. Alameda.
Bethlehem ......... 453 San Francisco ........... San Franci11co.
Beverly Hills ..•... 528 Beverly Hills ..•..•..•. Los Angeles.
Pine Knot .•••..••.•••• San Bernardino.
Big Bear ........... 617
San
Diego ................. San Diego.
Blackmer ......... .442
. Blythe ............ .473 Blythe .......... . ...... San Bernardino.
Brawley •......... .402 Brawley ......... , ..... Imperial.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ............. Contra Costa.
Brooklyn .......... 225 East Oakland ..........• Alameda.
Buckeye .........•. 195 Winters ................ Yolo.
Buena Park ......... 357 Buena Park ...........• Orange.
Burbank •.......•.. 406 Burbank ......•......•• Los Angeles.
Burlingame ........ 400 Burlingame ..•......... San Mateo.
Cahuenga .......... 513 Los Angeles .........•.• Los Angeles.
Caledonia .......... 486 Bakersfield ............• Kern.
Calexico ... . .•..... 412 Calexico ............... Imperial.
San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
California . . . . . . . . • • 1
Calaveras •..•...•.. 78 San Andreas .....•.....• Calaveras.
Callayomi .....•.... 282 Middletown ......•..... Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga .............. Napa.
Canoga ............ 611 Canoga Park .......... Los Angeles.
Capital City •....... ,499 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Carmelita .....••... 599 Pasadena ............... Los Angeles.
Carpinteria •••.•.• ,444 Carpinteria ............. Santa Barbar.a.
Carquinez ..•....... 337 Crockett ............... Contra Costa.
Catalina Island ••.•• 524 Avalon ••••.•. , ...•.•.• Los Angeles.
Center .....•....... 465 Fresno ...........•.... Fresno.
Charity .•..•.•.•••. 362 Campbell .............. Santa Clara.

840

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Charter Rock ...... .410 Berkeley ....., .......... Alameda.
Chateau Thierry ..•. 569' Oakland ................ Alameda.
Chico .............. 111 Chico .................. Butte.
Chino Valley ....... 427 Chino .................. San Bernardino.
Chula Vistai .•.....• 626 Chula Vista •......•..• San Diego.
Citro! .•.••...•...•. 656 Brea .................... Orange.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena .... . ....... Mendocino.
Claremont ......... 436 Claremont ............. Los Angeles.
Clay ........•..•... 101 Dutch Flat ............. Placer.
Clear Lake .....•.... 183 Lower Lake ............• Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo .................... Shasta.
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis ................. Fresno.
Coachella .......•.. 476 Coachella .............. Riverside.'
Coalinga ........... 387 Coalinga ..............• Tulare.
Compass ........... 590 Pomona ................ Los Angeles.
Concord ............ 117 Sacramento ........••.. Sacramento.
Confidence ......... 203 Castroville ............. Monterey.
Consuelo ........•.. 325 Escondido ............. San Diego.
Corcoran ........... 490 Corcoran ............... Kings.
Colusa ............. 240 Colusa ................. Colusa.
CompC1site •••..•••••• 639 Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ....... . ..... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena .............. Los Angeles.
Coronado .......... 441 Coronado .... , .......... San Diego.
Covelo ............. 231 Covelo ................. Mendocino.
Covenant .......... 527 Los Angeles ..•.......• Los Angeles.
Covina •....•..•.... 334 Covina ................. Los Angeles.
Clarence F. Smith ... 482 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Craftsmen ..•...... 559 Los Angeles •........... Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley •..• 652 Montrose ...••......... Los Angeles.
Crescent . . . . . . . . . . . 45 Crescent City ........... Del Norte.
Crocker ............ 454 Daly City ............... San Mateo.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Culver City ......... 467 Culver City ...•......... Los Angeles.
Cupertino .......... 510 · Cupertino .............. Santa Clara.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ......... . ... Sonoma.
Chowchilla ........ .485 Chowchilla ............. Riverside.
Damascus ...••..••. 648 San Bernardino .•....... San Bernardino.
Delano ............. 309 Delano ... .. ............ Kern.
Delta . ............. 471 Stockton ............... San Joaquin.
Dimond ............ 608 Oakland .•...•...••••.• Alameda.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba .. . ............. Tulare.
Doric .............. 216 San Francisco ...... ·..... San Francisco.
Downey ............ 220 Downey ................ Los Angeles.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

841

No.
Post Office.
County.
Lodge.
Drytown ........... 17 4 Plymouth .............. Amador.
Dunsmuir ..•....•.. 297 Dunsmuir ...•.......... Siskiyou.
Durant ............ 268 Berkeley ..........•.... Alameda.
Eagle Rock ......... 422 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
East Bay ........... 489 Berkeley .........•..... .Alameda.
East Belt .......... 391 Tuolumne .............. Tuolumne.
East Gate .......... 290 Los Angeles ........•.... Los Angeles.
East San Diego ..... 561 East San Diego ......... San Diego.
Eden .............. 113 San Leandro ........... Alameda.
Educator .....•...• 554 San Francisco ........•.. San Francisco.
Eel River ........... 147 Fortuna ............... Humboldt.
El Cajon Valley ..... 576 El Cajon ............... San Diego.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro ............... Imperial.
El Dorado . . . . • • . . • • 26 Placerville .............. El Dorado.
Elk Grove .......... 173 Elk Grove . ... ... ... .... Sacramento.
Elmhurst •..•....... 610 Oakland ....•..•....•. Alameda.
Elsinore ........... 289 Elsinore ............... Riverside.
El Segundo .... , .... 507 El Segundo ....... ,. ..... Los Angeles.
El Sereno .......... 588 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Elysian •........... 418 Los Angeles ...• ., ...... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ................•. Butte.
.Enterprise ......... 70 Yuba City ............... Sutter.
Escalon ......•..... 591 Escalon .................San Joaquin.
Eucalyptus ......... 243 Haywards ......••....•• Alameda.
Euclid ............. 519 Los Angeles ....•...•.• Los Angeles.
Eureka ............ 16 Auburn ................ Placer.
Evening Star ...... . 186 Etna Mills ..... . ....... Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside .............. Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Exeter ............. 424 Exeter ................. Tulare.
Fairfax .....•.••... 556 Fairfax .................Marin.
Fairview ...•...... 629 Inglewood ........••.... Los Angeles.
Fairmount ......... 435 San Francisco ..........• San Francisco.
Fall brook .......... 317 Fall brook .. : .......... . San Diego. .
Far West ....•...... 673 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Fellowship ......... 480 Oakland .............. . Alameda.
Ferndale ........... 193 Ferndale ...•.•••...• ,. •.• Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Fillmore .......•... 379 Fillmore ...........•...• Ventura.
Florence ........... 649 Florence ........•.•.....Los Angeles.
Fontana • -. ••••.•.•• 653 Fontana .....••....•••. San Bernardino.
Foothill .....•..... 564 Oakland .....•.....•..•• Alameda.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .••.....••.• Butte.
Forest ............. 66 Alleghany ............. Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ............. Mendocino.
Fort Crook ......••. 571S Fall River Mills ........ Shasta.

842

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Otrlce.
County.
Fortitude ••..••.••.• 624 Oakland .•.....•.•..•• Alameda.
Franklin ...•... . ... 143 Courtland .....•........ Sacramento.
Francis Drake . . .... 376 South San Francisco ..... San Mateo.
Francis K. Shattuek.571 Berkeley .......... • ...• .Alameda.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose •........•.. . .• Santa Clara.
Fremont •.••••.••• . 491 Oakland .......... : ... • Alameda.
Fresno .....•..•..•. 247 Fresno ................. Fresno.
Friendship .••.•.... 210 San Jose .. .. ......... .. Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .....•.•.. 336 Oakland . ... ... . .. . ... . Al0;meda.
Fullerton ..•. . •..•. 339 Fullerton ... . .........• Orange.
Galt .. • ...•.•....•. 267 Galt . • ............. . ... .Sacramento.
Garden Grove •.•.•. 586 Garden Grove ......... . .Orange.
Gardena .........•. 372 Gardena .. . ... . ... . .. . . Los Angeles.
The Gardens ..•••.•.• 821 Los Angeles . . • .. . .. . ..• Los Angeles.
Garvanza ..•..... . .492 Los Angeles . . ........ . • Los Angele11.
Georgetown . . . . . • . . 25 Georgetown ...... . ..... El Dorado.
George Washington .. 525 San F;ancisco ......... . San Francisco.
Glassell Park ..••.. . 605 Los Angeles ......•..•• Los Angeles.
Glendale •.••••.•• , .544 Glendale . . ••..• .. •. . .•.•Los Angeles.
Glendora ..... . ..... 404 Glendora ... . .•... . ..... Los Angeles.
Golden City •.••••.•• 553 San Francisco .•••....•. .San Francisco.
Golden Gate . . .....• 30 San Francisco ..•........ San Francisco.
Golden Rule ...... . .479 San Jose .....•...... .. . Santa Clara.
Golden West ... . , ; .455 San Francisco • .... . .. . . San Francisco.
Golden State ...... .. 358 Los Angeles ..... ..... . .. Los Angeles.
Gold Hill. . . . . • . . . . . 32 Lincoln .... . ..•........ Placer.
Grafton ............ 141 Knights Landing . •... . Yolo.
Granada ••.•...•.•.. 608 Alhambra ...•.•..•.•.• Los Angeles.
Gravel Range. . • . . . • 59 Camptonville ... .. .. ... Yuba.
Greenleaf •..••.•..• 670 Whittier ..•..•••.•.•.. • •Los Angele&.
Grizzly ............. 601 Portola • •.. .•..••.• • ••• Plumas.
Guadalupe ..•...... 237 Guadalupe ...•......... Santa Barbara.
Guardian .. . ....... 596 South Gate . .. ... ....... Los Angeles.
Hammonton •....•. .433 Hammonton ........•.. Yuba.
Hanford ..•....•.•. 279 Hanford ......•........ Kings.
Harbor ..• , •.••.•.. 502 Richmond .. ...•... . .... Contra Costa.
Harding ... . ....... 584 Los Angeles .. . ......... Los· Angeles.
Harmony ..•...••.•. 164 Sierra Cfty ....•....... . Sierra.
Hartley ..•.......•. 199 Lakeport ......... : .... Lake.
Hawaiian •..•....... 21 Honolulu ..••.......... Hawaiian Ter.
Hawthorne ••..••••. M7 Hawthorne ••••..•.••..•. Los Angeles·.
Hemet ............. 615 Hemet •••••••••..••••• Riverside.
Eienry Clay. . • • . • . • • 95 Sutter Creek .. ...•.. . ... Amador.
Henry Mone
Stephens ... . ..•• . 541 Berkeley ••••.••••••••• Alameda.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Post Oftlce.
County.
Lodge.
No.
Henry Knox .• . . ..... 662 Los Angeles .•..• •• . .. ., •• Los Angeles.
Hermann •.. .. .....•.... 127 San Fr.a.ncisco • . •••. . ... San F.ranc.isco.
Hermos& .. .............. 557 Hermosa Beach ••••••• Los Angeles.
Hesperian ,. • •.•.. ...•.•• 264 Santa .Maria .... ..• . .••.• Santa Barbara.
Highland Park . . •• .. 382 Los Angeles ......... . .. . Los Angeles.
Hiller.est ••••. .•.••••. 573 Berkeley.......... ............ .Alameda.
Hill's Ferry.. . .... .. .. 236 Newman . .. .... ... . ... .. . .. .. Stanislaus.
Hiram ........... .. .. .. . . 43 El Dorado . .... .... ........ El Dor.ado.
Henry S. Orme . ... . . 458 Los .Ang.a les ...... .. . .. .. ... Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck •..... .•. . 319 Los Angeles........... ..... Los Angelea.
Hollywood . .. ....... . 355 Hollywood .. ... . •. ..• ... • . Los .Angeles.
Holtville .......... .425 Holtville •••• n • • . , . , • •• • Imperial.
Honolulu •.• ..•.• • . . . 409 Honolulu .... .... ... .. ." ..• Hawaiian 'Jr.er.
Hope ........... . .. ... 234 Beckwith ... •• ...•. ......• Plumas.
Hornitos ••.•. • .•. • . . 98 Hor.nitos .. ...... . .. . ........ .. Mariposa.
Boward .•.••••.• ..•.• 37 Yreka . . • .'... • .........•.. Siskiyou.
Humboldt .. .. .. . ... . 79 Eureka . ........ . ..... . ... Humboldt.
Huntirrgt.on Beach . . . 380 Huntington Beach ....... Orange.
Illinoistown •.• ..• • . 51 Colfax •·... ....... .... ...... .. . Placer.
Imperial .... . .•.... 390 Imperial .... .... ......... ... Imperial.
Ingleside .• • •••• , •.•.• 630 San Rraneiaco ......... .. ~.Ban Francisco.•
Inglewood ........ .421 Ingle'Wood ... . ......... .... Los An,gelea.
Fairview .......... 629 Inglewood •.•.•....• , .Los Angeles.
Indian Rock .••••••. 638 Berkeley . ...... ... .......... Alameda.
Inyo •... . .. . •.•.... 221 Independenae ....... ..... Iny.o.
Ione . . • . . •.• . . • . . . . . 80 Ione .. .. . ...... . ..... . .. .. . .. Amador.
Ionic .... . .•......• 520 Los .Angeles •• , •••••• •• Los Angeles.
James A. Foshay •••. 640 Los Angeles ....... . .......Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield .•• 566 Los Angeles . . . ... ... . .. . Los Angeles.
James Madison .•..•. 572 Los Angeles ••.• •.••... .•• Los Ang.elea.
Jefferson .•••••.•• • 97 Laporte ........ .. .... . ....... Plumas.
Janesville .•••• • •.• 232 Lassen ....... ............ Lassen.
Jewel ............. 374 San Francisco . .• • •.••••• Ban Francisco.
John Mars-ball ••• , •• 638 West Hollywood ..•••••.•.Los .Angele a.
John P. Jarma-n ...•. 669 San Jose •.••••• ... • ••...• Santa Clara.
Jonathan •.•• • ...•. 545 . San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
J opp& .•••.•.•••••. 508 San Joaquin ••....•.•.• Fi-esno.
Jordan •••••••••... .654 Los Angeles • .••..• • •• ,. .•Los Angelell.
Jubilee •.. . •.••.•.•. 604 Santa An0; . ••....•.••••. ,Or.ang~
Justice • • •••.••.•. •549 .San Francisco •.•. .• ...••.San F.ra.Ullisco.
Kauai •..•..•• • .••. 589 Lihue . . ............ . ...... Kauai, .T. H.
Kaweah . . .... .. .... 665 Woodlake.... . .. . .. . ..•.. .•• Tulare.
Keith • ·· · ~·· .,•.••.• 187 Gilro~ •..•...•.••••••.••.Sa.nt11; Clara.
Kerman ...... . .. .... 420 Kerman •.•• • •• .••••••• :•• Fr.esno.
Keystoae ,. ••.••.•••. 161 Milton .•••• · ·· ···~· · ........ CalavMa1.

843

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

844

845

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Kilauea ...•....... 330 Hilo .. ." ...... . ....•.••. Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo . ........ San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco .....•••.. San Francisco.
Knox, Henry ....... , 662 Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
La Brea ............ 650 Los Angeles .. .. . ........ Los Angeles.
La Cumbre ..•...... 642 Santa Barbara .........• Santa Barbara.
La Fayette ........ 126 Sebastopol .... .. •....•.• Sonoma.
Laguna Beach ....... 672 Laguna Beach ...........Orange.
La Habra .• : ........ 659 La Habra ........... .. . .Orange.
La Jolla •.......... 518 San Diego •........••.• San Diego.
Lakeshore .. . .. ..•. 551 Oakland ...... ..... .•.. Alameda.
Lamanda Park ..... 627 Pasadena ......... , ..... Los Angeles.
La Mesa .........•. 407 La Mesa .•.....••......• San Diego.
Lancaster ......•.. 437 Lancaster ..... : ........ Los Angeles.
Lankershim •.... •. . 542 North Hollywood ........ Los Angeles.
Landmark ......... 253 Esparto ......•... ; ..... y olo.
La Puente ••......• 446 Puente ... . .... .. ..•.... Los. Angeles.
Larchmont .......... 614 Los Angeles .......•.•.. Los Angeles.
Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno . •• ·.•......... .•. . Fresno.
Lassen .......•.... 149 Susanville ..... .. .••••.. Lassen.
Laurel ............. 245 Willows •..........•.... Glenn.
Lebanon ........... 495 San Francisco .......••. San Francisco.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu .....•..•...•.. Hawaiian Ter.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte ............... Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts .. , .••.. 677 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Libertas ..... ..... . 466, Bakersfield . ......•. ... Kern.
Liberty .........•.• 299 Santa Clara .... . .. .. ... Santa Clara.
Lincoln ............ 470 San Francisco •...•..•.. San Francisco.
Lindsay ..........• 416 Lindsay .... .... ." ....... Tulare.
Live Oak ...•... : .. 61 Oakland ............•.• Alameda.
Livingston ••.•..•.. 658 Livingston ....•........ Merced.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi •.•.•..••.......... San Joaquin.
Lomita ......... . .. 644 Lomita ................. Los Angeles.
Lompoc ..... : ...... 262 Lompoc ... . ......••.... Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Bep.ch .......•.••. Los Angeles.
Los Angeles • . . • . • . . 42 Los Angeles ..•..• ... • .. Los Angeles.
Los Banos ......... 312 Los Banos •.•.••.•.••••. Merced.
Los Cerritos .. ... ... 674 Long Beach .....•..... : . Los Angeles.
Los Gatos ....•..... 292 Los Gatos ...... . ..•..•. Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton ....... . ....•.. Sierra.
Loyalty .....•...·.. 529 Los Angeles . ...••.•..•• Los Angeles.
Lynwood ........•.. 600 Lynwood .• .. .. .... •.•. ·Los Angeles.
Madera ... ......... 280 Madera . ............... Madera.
Madison. ........... 23 Grass Valley .. .. . ..... ·Nevada.
Magnolia ......... . 242 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
Malta ........ .... . 661 I·os Angeles ...•.. ·· •••. Los Angeles.

Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Manchester .•••• , •. 585 Los Angeles .....•.•.•.• Loa Angeles.
Maricopa ..•••••..• 434 Maricopa ..•..•.••....• Kern.
Marin ..........••• 191 San Rafael ....•••..•••. Marin• .
Mariposa ......•.•. 24 Mariposa •....•........ Maripo1a.
Martinez ; ....•.... 41 Martinez .........•••.. Contra Costa.
Maui .....•.•..•••. 472 Maui, Kahului. .•...•.•• Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell ......•.... 288 Maxwell ••.•........... Colusa.
McCloud .....•.•... 430 McCloud ••••.. . ......•. Siskiyou.
McKinley ..•..•..•. 347 Richmond ..•..•..•....• Contra Coats.
Melrose ••• ·••..•.•.. 602 Los Angeles ...•••••••• Loa Angeles.
Menlo Park •••••••• 651 Menlo Park .••..•• • ••••. San Mateo.
Menorah .•••.•..•.. 623 Los Angeles ••.•••••••• Los Angeles.
Mendocino ..•..•... 179 Mendocino .....•....... Mend<>cino.
1U
Meridia~ •.•..•••.. 667 Glendale •.•..•..•••••••. Los Angele1.
Metropolitan •••..•. 64"6 Los Angeles............. Los Angeles.
Midway ..•.•..... .426 Taft ...•.......••.••.• Kern.
Military Service ••.. 570 Ban Francisco .•.••••••. Ban Francisco.
Mill Valley ..•.••... 356 Mill Valley •••...•.••••. Marin.
Mission •..•...•..•. 169 Ban Francisco .......•.. San Francisco.
Mizpah ........•... 378 Loa Angeles., •. ,., •• , •• Les- Angelet.
Modesto •••• ·••••••• 675 Modesto • . ••.••••. • ••••• Stanislaus.
Molino •. ·.•..•...•. 150 Tehama •.•..•..•••.•.. Tehama.
Moneta ..••..•..... 405 Los Angeles •.. ••. .... . . Los Augele1.
: Montebello •...••... 451 . Montebello .........•••• Los Angele11.
MonroYia ..•....... 308 Monrovia ....• .. ...• •. . Los Angeles.
Monterey ••...•..•. 217 Monterey ..••... ·....... Monterey.
Monte Vista ••.•••• :655 Long Beach •• • .••••••••• Los Angeles.
Morgan Hill ..•..•.. 463 Morgan Hill .••.....••.. Santa Clara.
Morning Star ..•..•• 68 Stockton ••••••.•..••••. Ban Joaquin.
Mosaic .....•..•... 218 Livermore •..•.••...•.. Alameda. ·
Mount Davidson •... 481 San Francisco .. • .•.•... San Francisco.
Mount Diablo ... .• .. 448 Concord .••.•.•..•.. ; •. Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson •••.. 295 Guerneville ..•• ••. ..••. Sonoma.
Mount Moriah .•.... 44 San Francisco .. .• ...••. Ban Francisco.
Mount Olive ..•.•••. 506 Los Angeles .• .• .••..• , .Los Angeles.
Mount Oso ••....... 460 Tracy •.......•.•.....• Ban Joaquin.
Mount Vernon •••••. 317 Ban Francisco , ••••••••• Ban Francisco.
Mountain Shade . • •.. 18 Downieville •.••. . •..••. Sierra.
Mount Shasta ..•.... 281 Anderson •.• : .•..•.•.• ,Shasta.
Mountain View..•.•• 194 Mountain View •..•.•..• Santa Clara.
Natoma ...•.••••.•• 64 Folsom ••..••.•••• • •••. Sacramento.
Naval ....... ·•••. •• 87 Vallejo .. ........ , ••••• Bolaino.
Needles ..••.•..•.•. 326 Needles ..•. . .•• , ..•••• San Bernardino.
Neptune ••••••••••• 619 Long Beach ••••••••••• Loa Angelea.
Nevada •....•.• ..• • 13 Nevada City ........... Nevada.

846

PROCEEDINdS. OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Otuce.
County.
Newville ........... 205 Paskenta · . ·............. Tehama.
Nicolaus ......... _. .129. Wheatland : .. . ... :•..... Yuba.
Normal Heights ..••. 632 ~an Diego .•.. ·.... ·: ..•.. San Diego.
North Butte ... : .... 230 Gridley ................ Butte.
North East ..•...... 266 · Fort Bidwell . .•......... Mo doe:
i.
Northern I,.ight,. ,. .. _.190 Millville .....• . ........ Shasta.
North Star .. : ....... 91 Fort Jones . ............. Siskiyou.
Norwalk .. : . ...... ,315 Norwalk ......•........ Los Angeles.
Oakdale .. ." .. , ...... 275 Oakdale ............. ·.Stanislaus,
Oak Grove . . . • . .. . .. 215 Alameda . .. . ........... Alameda.,
Oaklan:d ... ·. ·. : . : ." .. 188 Oakland ... . .... : ... : .. Ala~eda. ·
Oasis .. :·....•.. : •. :664 El Centro .. .'. :: . .' ... ~ .. Imperial.
Oeeideiital '· : . ...... 22 San Franeiseo .. ·........ San Franeisco.
Oeean Park ......... 369 Oceanpark • ........ ." ... Los Angeles.
Oceansici~ .. ..... ·.·.. 381 Oceanside .•..•.• : •.• ; .. San Diego. ·
Ojai .. ~-· .. : .... : •.. 663 Ojai. ...... : •..•• ; .••••• Ventura.
Oli~e Bra°iich ... .". ·. ·. 269 Tulare •... .'•..•. ~ .. ; ... Tulare.
OI~vet· .. .'...... : : : . 2'J5 Corning ... : .. : ...... : .•Tehama.
Onta~io ··...... • ... : .301 Ontario . . : . .... . •.•..•. San Bernardino.
Ophir ....... '. ." .. _. :: 33 . M~rp~y .'s . • . . : . : . ; ,. ._.,._.Caliiveras . . . .
Orange Grove ... • . .. 293 Orange .. • ............. Orange.
Oriental ·.. .'...•. ; ; : i44 · San Francisco . .. , .. : . . . San Francis.co.
Otlaiid ... : ... . .... 265 Orland . ..· . . .. ... . . . ... Glenn.
Orosi ." . ... • .. ·.. : : .. 383 Orosi .. .... . . . ...•....• Tulare.
Oroville ............. 103 Oroville . ..... . ........ Butte.
Oxnard ·........ : : : . 341 Oxnard .. . ." ... " .. ,: ..... '. Y en~ura. ·, , 1•
Pacifi¢ . ·.• : .·. ~ .. : : ; .136 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Pacific Grove .•. : ... 331 Pacific Grove ........... Monterey.
· ·
............ . 110 · \Vatsonville ... . . '. ..... . Santa Cruz.
PaJaro
Palestine ... . ....... 351 Los Angeles . .. . .•...... Los Angeles.
Palisades •••...•.•. 637 Santa Monica . .. . ....... Los Angeles:·;::
Palms ..•.......... 512 Palms ..•. .. . . , . . . . .... Lo~ An~ies.
Pa!e Alto.: • . ,• ... : .. 346 Palo Alto • .. ·; .......... . . Sar.ta Clara.
Palos y erde.e . .• •.• . .. 389 Long Beach . : ..... . ... . Los Angeles.
Parfaiie Union .. . ... 17 San Francisco . . ..... . . . San Francisco.
Park ... . ... ; . ••.. • . 449 San Franci8CO .. . . ..... .San Francisco.
Park Boulevard ..•.. 568 Oakland . . ... . .......... Ala~ed!\, ·
Parnassus . . ......... 388 ·san Francisco . . ... . .. :- .Ban Francisco,
Pasadena . ." ....•.... 272 Pasadena .•..... . ...... Los Angeles.
Paso Robles .....•.. 286 Paso Robles . .•.. ;~ ..•... San Luis Obj.spo.
.Patterson· .' .' .•. : . .. .488 Patters.o n ·· ...... .. ...... Stanislaus'. .
Paul Revere ....... .462 San Francisco ...•...•.. San Franci.s<'q.
Pearl Harb~r ••...• 598 Honolulu ....•. . ...•..•. H~w.aiian Ter.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

847

Post Otuce.
County.
Lodge. .
No.
. Penr hyn •..•....... 258 Penryn •...•........ '.'..Placer,
Pentalpha •..... . ... 202 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Perris ..• ~ ....•.... 411 Perris ................. Riverside.
Petaluma .....•.••. 180 Petaluma .. , ........••. Sonoma.
Phoenix ..•....... . 178 8an llernar<lino ......... San Bernardino.
Piedmont ...•••..•• 521 Piedmont ..•..•. , •..••. Alameda.
Pinole ....•.•••. • .. 353 Pin.ole ........... .. .... Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .....•.... 429 Pittsburg .............. Contra Costa.
Plumas ...•••..••... 60 Quincy ................. . P.l~mas.
Plymouth ••...•..• ,560 Oakland . .••.••..;•.• • •• • Alaµieda.
Poinsettia • •• •••••• 633 Ventura .....•••. • .•. • .. Ventura.
Point •....•...•••. . 503 Richmond •..,. ...•..•..•. Contra Costa.
Point Firmin •....• ,558 8an Pedro •.••.• • •..•... Los Angele3. ,
Point Loma ..••• . ... 620 San Diego ................ San Diego.
Pomona ..•.• , •... •• ,246 Pomona ...•.••...•.. •• •• Los ·A.n geles.
Porterville .•..•.•... 303 Porterville .•....••.•.••• Tulare.
Presidio .••..•.•.• ,354 San Francisco ..•....••• San Franeiseo.
Progressive ........ 578 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Provident ••........ 609 Sacramento ..••.•••.•.•• Sacramento.
Pyramid .•......... 562 i::>an Francisco .•.•.•.••. San Francisco.
Queen Beaeh ....... 540 Long Beach ......•....•. Los Angeles.
Ramona ...•.•...•.. 457 Monterey Park . •...•.•. Loe Angeles.
Reading . ·..• .••..••.. 254 Hedding ••...• ·..•..•.... Shasta.
Redlands .•.•.•.•..• 300 Hedlands .•..•......•••. San Bernardino
Redondo ...•.• • ..•.• 328 Redondo .......•.•.•.•.. Los Angeles.
Redwuud Vity ...... 168 Redwllod City ........... San Mateo.
Reedley •••....••.• ,304 Heedley ••.•.•.•.••••••. Fresno.
Reseda .....•..•..• 666 Reseda ..•....... , •..•.. Los Angeles.
Rialto .............. 582 Rialto .......... ; ....... San Bernardino.
Ricnmond ..•••..•.. 375 8an Francisco .•.•.••... San Francisco.
Rio Vista ........... 208 Hio Vista ............... Solano.
Rising Light • ... . . ,397 Huntington Park .....•. Los Angeles.
Riverbank ..•.. • .. ,459 Hiverbank •.••..... • .•.. Stanislaus.
Riveraale ••......•. 496 Riverdale .•.•.•. • · . . ..•. Fresno.
Riverside ••••..•••. G35 Riverside .• ....•.•••...• Riverside.
Rockridge ••••... • . ,463 Oakland •..•.•..• • .•.•• ,Alameda.
Roosevelt .•••..••... 500 8an Francisco .....•.... San Fruncieco
Rose's Bar •••.... • .. 89 i::lmartsville •.... ; ..•...• Yuba.
Roseville .••.•...••. 222 Roseville •..•.......•..• Placer.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor ................ Sonoma .
Sacramento .•.•.... 40 Sacramento .•.•.•.•...•• Sacramento.
Saint Helena ....... 93 i::lt. Helena .............. Napa.
Salinas •••......... ,204 Salinas ............. . ... Monterey.

848

Post Office.
County.
San Benito ••••••.•• 211 Hollister •..•...•••.••• •• San Benito.
San Buenaventura •. 214 Ventura ..•...•.••.••••• Ventura.
San Clemente ...•••• 671 San Clemente ..•.•••...• Orange.
San Diego .......... 35 San Diego .............. San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas ••.•••.••.•••• Los Angeles.
San Gabriel •••• ~ ••. 546 San Gabriel •.•..••..•.• Los Angeles.
San Gorgonio ....... 668 Banning ....••.•..•••.•• Riverside.
Sanger •.••.•••••••. 316 Sanger .•.....•••••.•..• Fresno.
San Bernardino .••. 348 San Bernardino •.••.•••. San Bernardino.
San Fernando .•••.•• 343 Fernando ...•.•.•••..••. Los Angeles.
San Francisco ••••• ,360 San Francisco •••••••••• San Francisco.
San Jacinto ••.•••• ,338 San Jacinto •.•. ~ .••.••• Riverside.
San Joaquin ••.•.••• 19 Stockton •••. .• •••••.••• San Joaquin.
San Jose.: .•.•.•.•• 10 San Jose .. ••. ..••.•. ·• ; •Ban ta Clara.
San Mateo .•••••••. 226 San Mateo •••..•••••••.• San Mateo.
San Miguel . .••.••.. 285 San Miguel. .......•..•. San Luis Obispo.
San Pasqual ..... . . .452 Pasadena ........••..•. Los Angeles.
San Pedro ..•.•• •• .. 332 San Pedro ......•....••. Los Angeles.
Santa Ana . •....•••. 241 Santa Ana. : • .•••••.••.. Orange.
Santa Barbara ....•. 192 Santa Barbara ..•....•• . Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz • . • • . . . . . 38 Santa Cruz .•......•.... Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia •.•.•... 302 Kings City ...........•. Monterey.
Santa Maria ........ 580 Ramona .•••••••••••• •• •.San Diego.
Santa Monica .•••... 307 Santa Monica .. ..•...••• Los Angeles.
Santa Paula•..••.... 291 Santa Paula ..••....••.• Ventura.
Santa Rosa ......... 57 Santa Rosa ..•.••...... . Sonoma.
':Ian Simeon .....••.. 196 Cambria .• • ...••...•••. San Luis Obispo.
Schofield .......... .443 Schofield Barracks •.•... Hawaiian Ter.
Seal Beach ••.•...•• 616 Seal Beach •.•••••••••• Orange.
Seal Rock ••.••••••. 536 San .t'rancisco . •• ••••••• San Francisco.
Searchlight •••••••. 567 Long Beach •••.•••••••••Los Angeles.
Seaport •••••••••••• 550 San Francisco ..••••..•••San Francisco.
Seaside •... •. .•.•.. 504 Long Beach •.. .• .. ·.••.• Los Angeles.
Security .. ; ........ 581 Bakersfield., ..•.. : ..•.. Kern.
Selma .............. 277 Selma ••...••·.•.•••..•. Fresno.
Semper Virens .••••• 552 Eureka. ; •. , •..•..•• : •.• Humboldt.
Sequoia ••..•·.' .•.... 349 Oakland ·• .•...•...•.••• Alameda.
Service •..•.••••••• 594 Long Beach ..•.....•.. ..Los Angeles.
Sierra Madre ....... 408 Sierra Madre ....•..••..• Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley •..•... 184 Sierraville ..•..• • •...•. Sierra• .
Signal , .••••• ; .••• : 543 Long Beach ..••.• ; •..•..Los Angeles•.
Silveyville ·..•.••..• 201 Dixon •.••••••.••·.•.•••• Solano.
Silver Cord ..••.. ·· .. 505 Santa Ana ..••...•. ~ .•.• Orange.
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

· Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

849
County.

Silver Gate ..•• . ••.. 296 San Diego •.•..• . ..•... San Diego.
Silver Trowel. ..••.. 415 Los Angeles .••••••..••• Los Angeles.
Sincerity ••..•••••• 132 Greenville •.•• • •.•..••. Plumas.
Sisson .•••.•••••••• 310 Mount Shasta ••••••••••• Siskiyou.
Smyrna ••••••..•••. 532 Ceres ••••••••••••••••• Stanislaus
Snow Mountain ....• 271 Stony Ford ...••.•••• : •• Colusa.
Sojourner •••••••••. 507 Monrovia ••.••••••••••• Los Angeles.
Solano ••..•.••••... 229 Vallejo .•••.••••. . , • • ••• Solano.
Sotoyome •••••. . .•. 123 Healdsburg •••••••••••• Sonoma.
Southern California•. 278 Los Angeles ....•..•.•.. Los Angeles.
South Gate••.•.•.... 320 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Southland •.••••••• ,618 Los Angeles ••••••••••• Los Angeles.
South Park ••••••••• 563 Los Angeles ••.•.••••••• Los Angeles.
South Pasadena •••.. 367 South Pasadena ..•.••..• Los Angeles.
South San Francisco . 212 San }'rancisco •...•.•..• San Francisco.
South '\Vest .•••.•••. 283 National City •••..••.••• San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ••• 219 San Francisco •........• San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels, •• 657 San Diego ••••.••••••••. San Diego.
Standard ...•••••••. 440 Oakland ..•..•..•.. .. .• Alameda.
Stanislaus •.••••••• . 206 Modesto .••.•...•....•• Stanislaus.
Starr King.......... 344 San Francisco .....• .. •. San- Francisco.
Stockton •.•••.•.... 498 Stockton •• . ••..•.•••.. San Joaquin.
Suisun .••.•.•..•• , . 55 Suisun •• •••••..•••••.•. Solano.
Summit •......•.•.. 112 Knights Ferry .••.•••.•• Stanislaus.
Sun Garden •••••••• 530 Fresno •••••••.•.•••••• Fresno
Sunnyside •••••••••• 577 Los Angeles •• •••••••••• Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale .••.•.•.. 511 Sunnyvale •••.••.••.... Santa Clara.
Sunrise ........ . ... 522 Los Angeles ••••• , ••••• Los Angeles.
Sunset ..•..••••••.. 352 Los Angeles .•••.••••..•• Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley ••..• 235 Cedarville •.••.••.•..•. Modoc.
S. 'VV. Hackett .••••. 574 San Diego .............. San Diego.
Table Mountain ..•.. 124 Cherokee .•..•..•..••• • •Butto.
Taft •.•• • •.••••••••• 516 Taft ••• , • ; ••• ; • • •••••• Kern.
Tehachapi •• ••••••• . 313 Tehachapi • .•. : ••••.••• Kern.
Tehama ..••.•.... , • 3 Sacramento , .•.••.••••• Sacramento.
Temescal •••••••...•. 314 Corona • •• .••• .' .••• , ••• Riverside.
Temblor ..•••••••.. 477 Fellows •••••• , : ••••••• ,Kern.
Temple Oity ......... 612 Telllple. , • , •• • •••• •• •••• .Los Angelea.
Temple ••••• ·•••••.• 14 Sonoma ••••••. : • •• ; ..•• Sonoma. · ·
Texas •.•••..•••..•. 46 San Juan ............... San Benito.
Thousand Oak1t •.••• •78 Berkeley •••••• , , •••••• Alameda.
Three Pillars ••• , • , . 613 Saciramento ••••••••••• Sacramento:
Torrance ••• , , •••.••• 447 Torrance •••.•• , ••••••• ,Los .~ngeles.

850
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

851

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.

County.

Traver •..•......••. 294 Kingsburg ............. Fresno.
Triangle •••......•. 548 Venice .......•.•....... Los Angeles.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville ............ Trinity.
Truckee ......•••... 200 Truckee .. , ............ Nevada.
Truth ....•..•••••. 597 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Tujunga ....••.•.•• 592 Tujunga ................ Los Angeles. .
Tuolumne . . . . . • • • . . 8 Sonora ....•........ , .. Tuommne.·
Turlock ........... ·. 395 1'!Jrlock ... , .....•...... Stanislaus.
Tuscan ...... .... . :il61 Williams .....• ·• .•....• Colusa.
Tyrian ....... . ..... 439 Manteca ............... San Joaquin.
Union .. : .....•.... 58 Sacramento .. ... ....... Sacramento.
Unity ....•..... ._. . _368 Glendale .. ~ .......•.... Los Angeles.
University ....... , ,394 . .Los Angeles .......•..... Los Angeles.
Upland ..... ... .... 419 Upland ...•............. San B!'rnardino
Utopia ..... ~ · ........ 537 Los Anfioles . •.•..•.••.. Los Angeles.
Vacaville .......• _. .134 Vacaville ............. . Solano.
Vallee de France .. . . 329 Los Angeles· ..•..•.••••• Los Angeles.
Vallejo ........ .. .. 4.87 Vallejo. .. ·., .. ; .... .... . Solano.
Valley ............. lilii Linden . ... ...... .....• San Joaquin.
Vnlley Forge •••••• 587 Los Angeles. ·•.......•.. Los Angeles.
Van Nuys ........•_.45_0 . Van Nuys .....•..•..... Los Angeles.
Veritas ••..•••••• '. .640 San Francisco ...••.•••.. San Franc~sco.
Vermont Square .•.. 515 Los Angeles •·•. , ••. ·.••• Los Angeles.
Vesper ...... •:• . ·...... 84 Red Bluff .... ; ......••... Tehama.
Veteran ........ ." .. . 373 Sawtelle . . ; .. :.•:·..•. : ... Los Angeles.
Victorville .•••.•.•. 634 Victorville •••.••.. : ••.•. San Bernardino.
Virtory ... .... .••. . 474 San Francisco . ........•San Francisco.
Visalia ..•.. : ....... 128 Visalia· ... : .•.. ". . : ..... Tular.e.
Vitruvius .... ; ...... 145 Bloomfield ·.......••.... Sonoma.
Volcano •..•......•. 56 VolPano ....... -. ....... Amacfor.
Warren G. Harding.579 North Bacramerito.'." ••.•.Sacramento. ·
Wasco .......••••.•. 583 Wasco . .•............... Kern.
Washington ......... 20 Sacramento .' .• ~ ·.... : ... Sacramento.
Waucoba ........·.. 413 Big Pine ............... Inyo . . ·
Welcome . . .•...•... 255 Lemoore ............•.. Kings.
West Adams .••••••• 565 Los Angeles ...•.•..•..• Los Angeles.
Western Star....... 2 Shasta . ....... ~ - .• ; .. • .. Shasta.
'·
W·l'Jllt Gate.·.... , : . ; .335 . Los Angeles· : .. : : . : . ;-. ...Los Angeles." ·
West Lake ......... 392 Los Angeles . : : ........• Los Angeles.
Westwood .. : ....... 501 Westwood : . ; . .'......•• Lassen.
t
White Pine .•.•.•..• 555 Weed ....• : . : • : : .... : .••Siskiyou. '
Whittier •.•. ; •.... . 323 . Whittier ·:;·. ; •. ·: •• :.: •.• Los Angele's.·
Willits ...•......•.. 365 .Willits . , . , . .-~. ·: . . .... . . Mendocino.
~I

,

No.

Post Office.

County.

Willow Glen ..•••... 676 Willow Glen .••.•...•••• Santa Clara.
v. iJndngton .... ... . 198 Wilmington .' ...... .. ... Los Angeles.
Wilshire ........... 445 Los Angeles . :: ·... :.: ... Los Angeles.
Winneduniah .•....• 287 Bishop - •· n•~·· .. ... .... Inyo.
Woodbridge .•..... . 131 Woodbridge ......... : .. San Joaquin.
Wo.odland .... . •.... 156 Woodland .•.......•.•• Yolo.
W()odstock . : • ·.. ·. : . .491 AlamPda . : .. ·. ·.. ·. . : .... :Alameda.
Ye,tba· Buena. ·. .'. .... 403 Oakland .... . -. ; , :.-: ... :Alameda.
Yolo:: .. ... ·. :.. ·.... 81 Yolo ...... : ... ;;,;;.·.'.Yolo.
Yorba Linda' .'..... .469 Yorba Linda ·••. -... .-.~.· .;Orange. ·
York ..• : . ; • ; .. ; , . . 423 Watts . . ... -. ... ·• .-. .-. .- ; .Loi; Ange!~s.
Yosemite .... .-. ;, ... 99 Merced . ... .... .. . .- .... Merced.
Yount · .:; .•. ·.-. ·::::. 12 ··Napa_ ..... ·.-. .......... ,. .. ," iN-apa.- ·
··. . . ··

. . . . s~···"' ·

f LI..,

,.

:;: ~\

~/1. ; ,_A

·'· .... . . . .

(;\ ~ 1'~~\.

... !:~

. ~ ~~ !f~

"7;·:·~ :.!n' ·s=!:

..-~/;\::;~
~ ~..~.~~~·i·~ A~·:'.:\
~) :p.,:.~;,

:::~· :.....f.! ' •

,. .... .
,,;\

~.. \"l\'.·1~~
~;~

• ·, : t~\O ·~A·

' -:':tt\l.· " 'l . i:i~·~
0

'

.j.~:...

n

· 1 ..,

''. "
~·. ·

i,!~;t~l.

.. - . : : : ' ;;;;~\~i

. ; ~·r·~

•

•• •

~ •

•

••

!

• • • \,

852

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

'

LOCATION OF LODGES
Alphabetically Arranged

Post Otnce.
Lodse.
No.
Adin ..... ~ ..................... Adin ........................... 250
Alhambra . ............ , .. . ..... Alhambra . ... . ............... ·•. 322
''
•.. · ..••......• • .••... Granada. .•••• •. •••.•• , ••••••••.308
Alameda .................. ·...... Oak Grove ..................... 215
"
................... ~ •••• Apollo ......................... ,396
''

.............. , ..•...... Woodstock .... . . , ... .. ......... 491

Alleghany • , ••• ~ • •••••••••••••• Forest . . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 66
Altadena .-• • ••. • •. ••••••••••••• Altadena . • ..•.... • ••.••.••••• . 678
Alturas . ............. .. ... , .. , •• Alturas • • ." ........ , •• ••••••••••• 248
Anaheim ••• , • , •• , •• , , •• , • ,',' ••• ,Anaheim •• . •..•.••.••••••••••• ,207
Anderson .•.••••• • •.• , •••••••••• Mount SJiasta •.••••••. , •••••••• ,281
Angels Camp ................... Be1u Mountain .............. , .. 76
Antioch . .............. . . . ...... Antioch ·.. .. .................. .. 175
Arr9yo Grande ................. ,Arroyo ... . ..................... 274
Auburn . .. ................... , .. Eureka .•. . •.•• ••.•.•••• ; ••••••• 16
Arbuc}de .•.• • •• • •••••.•••. • ••••• Arbuckle • • .•.•.••••••••••••• • •. 182
::cadia •••••,. ••••••• '. .......... Arca:~ .•• • • '..'..~. : :.•...... ~ .- ·•·O'llr
eata . •.......• • •••••••... • • .,,A.i:eia· ........................ , 106
Artesia . • .• •_• ••• --... ~ •• •••• ·: ••• Artesia . ••••..••••••••••••••• • •. 377
Atascad~ro •••• ••••.••• • •••••••• Atwicadero ••••.••• • ••••• •• ••••. 493
Avalon •.••.••.••.••••••••• • ••• •Catalina Island •••••• • •.••••••. 524
.i\~,.. ....... .................. Azusa •..•... • ...•••• • ••••••••. 305
Bakersfield ......... ...... . ....... Bakersfield , ................... . 224
"
. ... . ................ Liberta.s .. .. . .. ..... . ........... 466
''

. .... . ........... .. . . Caledonia . . .. . , ............ • .. ,486

''
. , .... . ....•........ . Security . ........ .. ............ , . ~81
Baldwin Park .................. Baldwin Park ........ , •••• , , , •. 660
Bann\ng .•..• •• •• • .• • •••••• , •• • .San Gorgonio .•••••••••••..•••. 668
Beckwith • , , • , ....... , .......... Hope ......... , ... , ........... .".234
.. Jiti
'
. , l . . ........................... Bell . ..... . .. . .................. •SS
BeUfl.o.w:er ••••••••••• • ••••••••• ,Bellflower ............. . ; ••• ; • •. $3
·...~Yede,lie Gardena ••••••••••• , •• The Gardens •. ••••••••••••••••• 1$21
- Btlllata ••••• , ~ ..... ............ , .B811..i eia ................... , • • .. • II
Berkeley ....................... Dui:ant . . .. . ............ , ••••••• 1168
.i c
... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Berkeley . . ........ H• •• , . . . . . ,.868
i•
.... • .•...• , • ...... , ....••• Thousand Oaks , ..... ._ .. !',, •••• ~ ...78
ic
..•..•••.• , , .. ... , • , , . , . Clharter Rock ........ , , • , . , .• ~ •. 410
cl

••· •• ~ , • ; • • ••• , , , , , ; •••• -Ea,1t Bay , , , , . , .• , • , , , , , , • . , , ..... ,.S9

"

••• ·1 • , ••••• , • : •• , , , ~ , , , Henry Mone Stephen•. , ... , . , , , . 541

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

853

Post Oftlce.
Lodse.
No.
Berkeley •••• • •••••••••••••••••• Francia K~ Shattuck .•••••••••••• 571
'•
. . ...... . ......... • .... Hillcrest ·.................•..... 573
''
......... . .......... .. .• . Indian Rock . . ..............• -.. 638
Beverly Hilla ••••••••••.•••••••• Beverly Hills .••..••••••• . .••... 528
Big Pine ••••••••••.•••••• • •••.•• Waucoba .•••••.•••••••••••••••. 413
Biggs ••••.•••••••. , • • •••••••••• Emmanuel ••••.••..••••.•••••••. 318
Bishop ••••• • •••••••••• , •• ·• ••••• Winnedumah •.• •. •••• , •••••••••. 287
Bloomfield •••••••..•••••••.•••• Vitruvius • •. • . • •. . ••••• , ••••••• 145
Blythe .. .. ......................:Blythe •.•••.. •..••••••••••••.•.. 473
· Brawley . .................... . .. Brawley ..................... . .. 402
Brea •••••••••••••••.•••••••••• Citrol ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 656
. Brentwood • • •
Brentwood ••.••••.••.•••••••••. 345
Bridgeport •.••••• , ~ · •••.• , :, . :, ••• Alta • • •••• • •• , .• •• • •• •• • •••••• 333
Buena Park ·~ ......... ,.,'...... Buena Park .................... 357
Burbank ••• •••.•••••.• •••••••••• Burbank .......... . ............ 406
Burlingame ................ , ... ,Burlingame .•.....••. • ••••• . ••• 400
Calexico ••••••.•.• • •••.••••.•••• ,Calexico . •.....••. . •••••••.•• , •. 412
Calistega ......... . ............ Calistog~ ..... .. ............... . 233
Cam~tia , ........ . . . . . ........ . ,San Simeon •. • .••.•. •.• . .. . .... .. 196
Campbell ... . ...... . ........... . Charity .. . . . . . . ... ~ . • .. •• .••.• , 362
Camptonville •• .,................ Gravel Range .•.•••.•.••.••.•••. 59
a ..uu6.. rc>rk·. · ~·#• ••., .... , ..... Canoga .. . • . ... .. . .. • ..•..... . 611
C~pinteria .................... Carpinteria . ..... . .............. 444
Castroville .. ... .. . ........... . .. Confidence . .......... . ........ . 2o3
Cedarville ••••••.•••.•••••••••• ,Surprise Valley ...• • •••. .-. •. •.. 235
Centerville ................... ,..\fameda . .................... . .. ,167
Ceres ............ . .............. Smyrna . •.•••. ·.... .. ..... . ..... 532
Cherokee .•.•••••••.• • •••• •• •••• Table Mountain .•. • .•.••• • ••.• , 124
Chico ••.•••••••.•••••·••••• ·••• • ••~hico .•••.•.•••.•.•••••••••••••• 111
Chino ... . ....... . ............... Chino Valley ................... 427
Chowchilla • ................ : .... Chowchilla , •.• •••• ••. •••••••••. 485
Chula Vista ..................... Chula Vista .. . ................. 626
Clarem.o nt ........................ Claremont ...................... 436
Cloverdale . . . ......... ·.......... Curtis .. . ........ , •••• • ••••• • .•.•140
Clovis ................ , ........... Clovis •• , ... ..... .. . ....... ,:. •.•• ·,417
Coachella .•••••• • •••••••••• ,·, ••. Coachella .• • ••••••• •·~ ••• ·, ••.• , ••. •76
Coalinga ........................ Coaling& ........................ as7
C~lfaic .................... ;·.-••• ,Illinoisto'fll ............. ~ ..... ..... , ISl
C~lt~ .....•.... ~, .... ,., •.•..•.. ~hla;r ........ . .......... . . ••·. ,808
Co~coran .... , ......&..•. • .•••••• ~ .·~, • , CorCofl.D ............... , ......... 490
Cor~, ~·· •••••.. ·~• ..... .. , ..... •.•·• • ._ ~ Teme.1cal .•..... . ••.. • ....-. ~ . , ..•..814:

:u ...............

Co.~rtl&Jld ••••.. , •.. , , .....·•••. .....~nkliD ~,., .•. •. , .••. ~ •••.•.•. . 1•3
CoVelo , . , , , ••• , , ,., . , , ,, , .,,:,:.. .:.Covttlo . , . , , ..•.••. 1 •••• ~ ;, • 1 "-~ ••81
Colu1a , .. , .. ; ; ............. ; , ...Ooluaa ... , , ....... , ......... , • .'.140

854

PRO<;EEDINGS OF THE

Po•t Office.

Lodge.

Nu

Covina .....•.• . , .......•.•.•... Covina .........•.............. . 334
Compton .....•.•..•..•••.••••.• Anl•.hor ... : ... .. ..... : ... ; ..•. J!73·
Concord .•..••...•.••••••...•... Mt. · Diablo .•.•..... ·•.•.••.•.•.. 448
Corning . . . • . •..... .. ..••..• ; ... Olivet .....................•.•. _.205
Coronado .•.••••..•..... ; .••.•••• Coronado ...........•.. . •.•..•• . 441
Crescent City .....•.•...••..•.• Crescent ............. , .·. .-•.•.. '. . . 45
Crockett .....•...•.........•.•• Carquinez ...•.•.•. ·..... . ........ 337
Culver City .....•.•.... : ......• Culver City .............. .. .... 467
Cupertino ••.......••....•.•.•.. Cupertino .......•....••••• •. .... 510 ·
Daly City ...•.......••••••• •..• Crocker ....•.. • ...... .-•..•..... 454·
Davis ... , ...•••..... . ..•.•...•. A thens .... .-. •.... .-• .-••·••·••..... 228
Delano ......••. . •. . •.. : • : : .•• Delano · •. ..••. •·. ;. ; .-.· . .- .... .- •. 309
Dinuba ••.•. , ..•...•..• ;. '.; •• ; Dinuba· .. · ···•···· .......... ,.., ••.•... ; .385
Dixon . : ; •: • ..•••.. ; .. ; ; ; ; ... ; .. Sil veyvi.lre ; ; ; ; : : : : , , : : : . ';:; ..... 20 l
Downey .....•••..•....•.: •.••• Downey· ............... '· . , , •. :· ;:... ... 220
Downieville •••.••. • ...•.. : .·; •• Mountain · Shade • , , , , , , , . ...., . . 18
Dutch Flat .. • •..••..•.. ·•.•.••• Clay • ·• .. ................. , ... ,,,, • .-: ••••• 101
Du~smuir

............... ,; •. ~•. ·.• Dunsmu-ir · ···· ····,•4 .r4,,,,., ~ ",, •••• . 297

El ,Cajon . .•.••...• ·• .-.-........... El ·Cajon Valley ...... " , , •• ••• •.•. 1>76
East San Diego .- .. ; .•. , ...• • .•.. ·E ast San · Diego .. .•••• , , .• " ...... 361
Elk Grove · • • • :·. .. ·.-.·.... , .• ,. •••• • Elk· Grove ·•···•·....... , • , • , •...•. ." ,·.•173 .·
El Centro · ··· · · ·.-.-.-.·.-...• ;.;'.:: :El Centro· ·............... . ............ 38;(..

"

:... :.::.:::::.:: .. :. ·. ·, oa~ts· .-:::::::.-:: ..-.- ... :....... ·:6.ij~ :;.

EI . Dorado · • , . ·.... -.·• .- ... .- .. .'. ~ : ., • ·Hiram · ·•• ·.......... .-. ••• , , •••• ; .••• ,.i~:.. ·
El Monte ; ... ·.... ·.-.-..·;, ••.. ; ••.• Lexington -. •·.... , .. , • , •.• ;....... 10~..
El ,Segundo- ·.. -.-.·. .-...... ;;'. ..... El ·Segund<)• • · '·' ... ... . ..... ... . 5qJ1, ·
Es~ondido · ; ·•. -. ·•·.·.., , .- •· .- .- : · · , J•••• Consuelo· ........ .- .- , , , , , , , , ..• .' .) •. 325 ,··
Elsinore· • ; ·. ·.-. •. ·•·.-• • ••• : . ; : .• • ·;·;Elsinore · ·.. .-.- . .- : : : , . ; • • • ·, •••.... 289
Escalon : . ; ; ; . "·. ·. ·. "· ....... : ....... Escalon · ·..·.- : ; : : ; ; ; .. ; • . ...•... : 591
Esparto · ; ; ; "·. ·.-. ·.-.·.-.-; : : : : : . : ••• Landmark · ...: ; •• , : : • : ..••. ·, " ... 253·
Etna ·Mills· ·. " -. -. ""-. """ •...•.••••• Evening ·Star • : ... : • : ••••••..•. 186:
Eureka · ;; ; ; ·.·.-. ·•. ·.-.-. • .. : . .•..... Humboldt· ";; .- •;; :. ; ; • • •• •.'.'. . .- 79.,' ·
,!, · · ·.-.-.-.-;•;;;: ; ; ; ;; ; ...... ". ...Semper · Yirens .. : : . ; ; • • •.• •.• .. 552"·"
Ex~ter · ; ; ; -. "·. ·• ·;; • • •. ; • : ; ••• ; ••• Exeter · .-.-.-• • . .- .- .- ; • . ; ; ; ; • .-.. ; ••. 424 ·
Fa~rfax ; ; ; ; ; ; ; -. ; -. •·• • .-• .- ; ; : ; : •.• F~irfaic· ·; •;; :: ; ; ; ; ; ; •-. ·••.•• ~'·• •• 556 .
Fallbrouk · : -. ·.-.-•. ·• ; •. ; : : ; ; •.•••• F allbrook ·•. : • ; . ; ; •• ; , ·,"-. "·.-•. -. . 317
Faj.l River Mills.; -. " . . ; .• ; •.•. '. • ;Fort · Crook ·, .- .- ................. ; . 575
F~llows •-.-. -.-.-.-.-..... .- •; •.;; •.••• -.Temblor""".•.;:., 1 .... .. . . .. . . , ,; •• 477
Fernda-Ie· · ; : -. ·.-.-.-.-.-• ...· .- ••. ;:; . ,-; • .Ferndale -. .:. •. , , ; , , •• , ·••• ·• •• .;.;.·;f9li'

~~~:~:; :·:·:·~· ;-.::::::::.~: ••.'..: .~ .•.'•7·: x. .~"::!1r::~:~ ~:::.::.:.:::::::: ::.:::·~: j; ~~!:,·~:
~~t:o~~:~~. -. ::::::::.~~ ~

'.; '. '.; '.: :'~~'.~~=:! ~~ ~
0

.. '. '.:: '. '. '.

:::·: ;: :: ·:.-~: ;~~~='~

Fo~t.ana ·.- .· ::,,; • • ......... ........ .'.:·; ·;Fonfana ..... , , , , , , _. ._.. _.._,:•:-'·:~·.-.,:..- ,-.~~;f:::
....•. ' • ' .• ' • • • . . • . ' • ' • ' • .
.·.:. - • .:.··. .
. •.. \ . . . . .' _•.:·.
·:?'f ·.:j ; ~
"• ~>.
"' ~ ~· . :

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

855

Lodg8.

No.

Fort Bidwell ..•.•...••••••..•• North East ....... ...•• •..•..•. 266,
Fort. Bragg ..•.....••••.•.••••• Fort .Bragg ... . .....• . •.•.•• .. 361
Fort. .Jones ......... . ......•.. ·•• North Star .........•..•.••••• ; .. 91
Fortuna . . . ..•••.... ., ....•••••• Eel River .•.........•. . ....••..••• • 147
Fresno ....................................... Fresno •...•.. .. ....•..•••••.. 247
''
.................... ., .. . Las Palmas .. . . ...... . ........ . 366
"
.......................... Center ••..•........••.••...•.• 465
· ''
......................... . Sun Garden ........... . ....... . 530
Fullerton .•.••.....••••••••.•• Fullerton •.•.•.•• .' • .' .•·.. .•, •.••.•. 339.
''
.... .·... .. ....... ; . ... Azure .......... ... . .. .... . ..... . 533 .
Galt ................................,. . ...... . ; Galt . , .. • • , ......... ....... , ~ •. 267
~arden Grove . •... . .• .. . . .....• Garden Grove ...... ...... , .:.... 586
Gardena ... ............. .•.•.• •••• • ~ •••• Gardena- ••• , • . • ••.••• ; .•• ; -. •. • . 372
Georgetown .. • .•••• • ••.••.•••• Georgetown ..•..•..•••.••.••.• 25
Gilroy ..••••••......•••.•••••• Keith •.•.•••.• • ••.••••••.. • •. 187
Glendale .. ., ., ....•. • .•. •• •••••• ; Unity ..•.•••• •'. . .. .. : •.•.••.•.•. 368
"
.• ,. .• .• . .... ,. . .. ..,. .. ,,. ......... Glel!dale.. , . , ......... . .......... 544
" . , , . , , . , . , . , , , , , ...••.. Meridia,n .................... ... , .. 667
Glendora . , . , . '· .. ,,., . . ....••.. GlenqQr1' . ...... .. ... . , .•.••••...•. 404
Grass Valley . .• .•••...•••.•••• Madison ..•.•••• •• ••••••••.••• 23
Greenville .•...••••...••...•••. Sincerity •.••. •• •••.••. • •..•• • • 132
Gridley •••.•...•••.•..•...•••• North Butte ••••• ••• ; .. ........ 230
Guadalupe ..•.••..•. • ••• • •.•••• Guadalupe ..•. , •...•.••....••..•. 237
Guerneville •.•.....•..•... • ..•. Mount Jackson .. . . .. . .......... 295
Hammonton . .•.•• • ....•••••.••• Hammonton •.• , ...••..•..•.•.. 433
Hanford ..•....•.. • ..••.•..•.• Hanford ..•• ••. ..••• ••. •• ... • . 279
Hawthorne • .•••••••• ••• ••••.• •'.Hawthorne .... .. , •• •• ••..•.. • •647
Haywards ••••.•••. . •.•. . ..•... Eucalyptus •••••.••.••••.•.•.•. 243
Healdsburg ••.......••...••••. Sotoyome .. •.....•• , •• • •...•.• 123
Hemet . •.. .. .. • •...•.•.•...• , •.•. Hemet ...... " , .................. 615
Hermosa Beaeh .•.• . ....•.• •• . ; .Hermosa .. . .. ,. .... .............. . 557
Hilo,. T. H..••.....•.••. : .. : .. ,_. . Kilauea ................. ...... .... . 330
Hornitos . • , ••••••. .• . , • : •• , • : •• Hornit.os • • . • • • . .. • . . •.• • • . . • • . . • 98
Hollister . •. '. ••...••••..••••.••• San Benito •.•••.•••••••••• • ••• 211
Hollywood ........ .... ... . . . .. Hollywood '. ..• •...• .'•••••• .,.•• 355
lioltville •..••••..••.. • .....•• • Holtville •..•..••..•• : ......•.. 425
Honolulu, T. H ............. , .•..Hawaiian .•• '. .• '. •••••.••.••..•• 21
II

,,.

. . : ·::::: · ... .1 ~-·. 1,e Pr~~~s.·.~e.· _l,'?.c~~~.i~ ......... 371

· · · • • · · ·.: · ··. · ~··,· .Honolulu ......................• .409

· •. ;.;;: .. .... . . . Pearf° Harl:ioi · ::::: ::: .... . .... 598
Huntington Beach •......••..•• HuritiilgtOn· Beacli ·::: : : .... :•.-.38'0
HuJitington Park • , ~ ;;,; . .• .•. , ,• .,Risfog · Light ":::::::~: ...••. : •• 397
"

Igo · •.• •• ••• :: •••• ::-.:'::'•• ~.; '.. cHn:to·ri ·:: :: : : : : :: : : : : .....• : • •119
Imperlal · •.• : : . : : • : '. ', '. • : .'.·••••• Imperiii.1 · ·. '. '. ".: '.::: ·. : ·.: . .. . .. ; .. 390

856

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Poat Olrice.

Lodge.

No.

Independence •••••••••.•••.•••• Inyo •••••••.•.•••..••••••••••• 221
Inglewood •••••••••••••••••••• Inglewood •••.•..••••••••••• • .421
"
•••••••••••.••••••••• Fairview ••.•••..•••••••.•••••• 629
Ione •••••••••••••••••••.••••••• Ione ••••••••••• , • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 80
Jackson ••••••••••••••••••••••• Amador ••.••.•.•••••••••••••• 65
Kahului, T. H ••••••••••••••••••.Maui ..•••••.••••••••••••••••• 472
Kerman •••••••••••••••••••••• Kerman •.•••. ; ••.•••••.•.•••.. 420
Kingsburg ••.•••.••••.••••••.•• Traver ••.•••.••••••••••••• . ••• 294
King City, •••••.••.•.....•..••.Santa Lucia •••••••.••••••.•••• 302
Knights Ferry ••••••...........• Summit •• , ••••••.••••••••••••• 112
Knights Landing ............... Grafton ....................•.. 141
La Habra ..................... La Habra ................. . ... 659
·Laguna Beach .•••••••..••.••••• Laguna Beach ................. 672
Lakeport ..••.•..••.•.•...•••.•• Hartley ....................... 199
La Jolla •• , ..................... La Jolla ••••. •• ...•.•••..••.•• ,.>18
La Mesa •••••••••••••••••••••• La Mesa •• ; •••••••.••••••••••• 407
Lancaster ••••• , ••••••••••••••• Lancaster ••••..•••••.••••••••• 437
LaBBen •.•••..••••••••••••••••• Janesville ••••••.•.••••.••••••. 232
Lemoore •••••••••••••••••••••• Welcome •••.••••.••••••.•••••• 255
Lihue .••••.••.•••.•.....•...••. Kauai ........................ 589
Lincoln •••• ~ •••••••••••••••••• Gold Hill .•••.••••••••••• , • • • • 32
Linden •••.••••••• ~ •••••••••••• Valley •••.••••.••••••••••••••• 135
Lindsay •••••••••••••••••••••.• Lindsay •••••••••••..••••.•••• 416
Livermore •••••••••••.•.•.•.••.••••• Mosaic •••••••••••••••••.•·•.••• 218
Livingston •..•••••••••.••.••••••Livingston •..•••••. , •..•.••••••. 658
Lodi •.••• , •.••••••••••••••.•••• Lodi •••••••••..••.•••.•••••••. 256
Lomita •••••••••••••••••••• , ••••Lomita •••••••••••••.•••.••••.. 644
Lompoc ••••••••••••••••••••••• Lompoc •••••••••••••••••••.••. 262
Long Beach ••••••••••••••••••• Long Beach •••••••••••.••.•••. 327
''
................... Palos Verdes ................ . 389
''
.... . ............... Seaside ........................ 504
''
............... .. . .Queen Beach ..•..•............ . 540
• .••••.••.•.••.••. .Sign.al ..•..•..•..•.•..•.•.•... 54:3
• •••••.•••••••••••.Searchlight ••••••••.••••••••••. 567
.
•••.•.••.•••..•...• All States •.•.•.•...• ; .....•.•. 593
•.•••.••.•.••.•••.. Service .........•.•...•..•..... 6i9
"
••.••••••••.••••••••• Neptune .•..••...••••••••.•.••••• 619
"
.....••....•••••.•. Monte Vista .•......•.....•.... 655
"
••••••••••••••••••• Loa Cerritos •••••••• , •••••••••. 674
"
Los Angeles ••••••••••••••••••• Los Angeles • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •.• 42
· ••••••••••••••••••• •Pentalpha • .••.••••••••••••••. 201
"
••••••••••••••••••• Southern California ••••••••••• 278
"
• • . . • . • . • . . • . . . . . . , East Gate ...............••. , . . 290

....
"

· Poat Olrice.

..
"
..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

857

Lodge.

No.

Los Angeles ••••••••••••••••.•• Hollenbeck •••.•••••••••••••••. 319
• •••••••••••••••••• South Gate ••.••••••.•••••••••. 320
................... Vallee de France .... .. ......... 329
"
••••..••••••••••••• West Gate •.••••.•••••••••••••. 335
•••••••.•.••••••••• Palestine •••..••••.•••••••••••• 351
"
• •••••••••••••••••• Sunset •••••.•••••••••••••••••• 352
.•••••••••••••••••• Golden State ••••••••••••••••.•• 358
"
•..•.•.•........•.. Mizpah •••.•• ·••••••.•••••••••• 378
"
• •. .•.•.•.. . .....•. Highland Park ••••• , ••••..••••. 382
"
................. : . West Lake .................... 392
"
•••••••••..•.••••••
University ••••••••••.••••••••. 394
"
••••••••..•.••••••• Moneta ••.••••••.•••• ~ •••••••• 405
"
• •••••••••••.••••.• Arlington •••••••••••••••••••• •414
•• • •••••.•••..••••• Silver Trowel ••••••••••••••••• 415
"
••••••••••••••••••• Elysian ........................ 418
"
••............•..•. Eagle Rock ••......••.•..••.•. .422
"
••••••••••••••••
~ •• Acacia .••.••••••••••••••••••• 438
"
•••.••••••••••••••• Wilshire ••.•••.••.•••••••••••• 445
• ••••.••••••••••••• Henry S. Orme •••••••••••..••• 458
..•.••.....•.••..•..
America •... , .•••••••••••••••. 475
"
•.•..•••••••••••••• Clarence F. Smith •••..•••.••••• 482
••••.•••••••••• • ••• Alberli Pike ••••••••••••••••••. 484
"
••••••••••••••••••• Garvanza •••••••••••.••••••••• 492
"
• •••••••••••••••••• Mt. · Olive •••••••.••••••••••••• 506
••••••••••••••••••• Benj; Franklin ••••• ; •••••••••• 509
••••••••••••••••••• Cahuenga ••••••..•.••••••.••.. 513'
"
•••••• ~ •••••••••••• Vermont Square •••••••••••••••• 515
"
••••••••••••••••••• Euclid ·•• ; ••••••••.•••.••.•••••. 519
"
• •••••••••• , ••••••• Ionic .......................... 520
••••••••••••••••••• Sunrise ........................ 522
"
••••••••••••••••••• Covenant •••••••••••• ~, •••••••• 527
"
••••••••••••••••••• Loyalty •.••.•••••••••.•••••••. 529
"
••••••••••••••••••• Alexander Hamilton .••••••••.•• 535
"
•••.••••••••.••..•• Utopia ...• , ••••••••••••••••••• ,537
"
•••.•••••• ,., •••••••• Ascot ••.•••••••••••••••..••••• 538
"
•.•...• ••••• : ••••• .•Bel~edere ••.•••••.•...•.•..•••. ,539
"
•••••••••••••••••••Craftsmen ••••••••••••••••••••. 559
"
• ••••• , •••••••••••.South Park •••••••••••••• ". .•••. 563
•••••••••• . •••••••• West Adams •••.•••••••••••••• 565
"
...................James A. Garfield ••••• ; •••••••. 566
••
••••••••• •• ••.••••.J ame1 :Madison .•••••••••••••••• 572
"
• • • • •••••••••••••••Sunnyside •••••••••..•••••••• , •577

..

....
..
....

..

..
..

858

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Poat Oll'ice.

Lodge.

:so.

Poat Office.

.Los Angeles .. .......•... , ....•. :Progressive .....•.•. . .•. , •.•••. 5"'8
''
................. , .. Harding .. ... ... . . ....... .. .... 584
''
· · · ·. · · ·.··-····.,· . .... Manchester ................... . 585
''
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •.• ·Valley Forge ., .. .. . ... .... . .... 587
''
· · · · · · •. · · · · · · · · · · · ·El Serenq ...... ................ 588
"
· · · •. ~ · · · · · · · · ·. · · · · ·.Alexander Graham Bell . .... .... 595
''
.................... Truth. . .... ...._. , ................ 597
''
~ • ! ~ • • • ~ • • • • • • •. • • • • Melrose ........................ 602
''
· · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · ._.. Glass.e.11 Park ................. . 605
''
·············· ~ ····Larchmont ..................... 614
''
:
· · · : · · · · · · · ... · ... Southland
................ ... ... 618
. ' i(
.
. · :: · ·: · · . ....•..... The Gardens.:: ...... .. . . ...... 621
: · : ... : .... ...... .. Atwater . . .. : ............... ·.... 622
."
· : ·. : ...•...... .. .. Menorah · : .. : .. . ......... • .•..•. 623
: : · : . : . .. . . .......• Angeles · Mesa .........•.....•.. 625
· · · ........ : ....... Benevolence • .. ." •...•.••••.•••. 631
· · · · · .............. Beacon of the West ............ 628
"

......

.'°,. ·. . . ~ ~.: ~ ~ ~ .... ~ ...... Coinp0-s'ii0 · . .~ : ~ ~: .............. . 639
.. •. ... .. ... .. : •... Janies· A.: Foshay ...•...•...•••• 641
"

"

... "i,. .
. . . i'

. · · · · : : .. ... : ... ..' . .. Metropolitan .... . .• , ... .. ..• , , • 646
· · · ..........•..... La Brea ....••......•..•••...•• 650

.:;::.:;:::::·:::::.:::~;1~;:~ ::;:!.~: .: .: .:.::..::::::::::::~~

. · : : • : : . : . : : . ....... Henry Knox .............. , .... 662
... ••• .... .• .•....•• Liberal Aris .. :.: ...•....••.•• . 611
Los :Sanos . : : ~ :·:.:: .· :,: ... .' .: .• Los Bai108 . : . : : : . : ............. 312
. t ·os G.a~os: ::::: :: .. . ... ·: ~:" •• Los . Gatos : ·:: .. ·... . .. . : .. . .. . . 292
. , Lowe; .. a~~: '. : : : : : : : : : : : .... '. ... Clear Lake . . .. . .. . .' : ...•.•..••.•. 183
. ! oya ton • · · • · . ••••• ...•• • ••••• Loyalton .................. , ... ll59
· Lynw!>od .... ... •..•. . .. ·. ·. . ·.. . .. Lynwood .. ... .. : . ... . •.•...•... 600
· Ma~era .•.••.••••..•..•• ·..•••• Madera ..•• , .. .• ·. ·......•..•..•. 280
·. Manteca •. : : •. : • : .•••• : .. ·••••• Tyrian . ·......•. ·.......••.••••. 439
·. Maricop.a : . : •• ,. .. ,. •..•••.: •.1 •••• Maricopa ...... ·. ·...•.....••••. 434
: Mariposa ......•...••...•••.•• Mariposa · . ·. ·. ·.·:.............•.. 24
. Martinez ..• : .• : .· : ... : : : .•: .• . •. Martinez ..........•..••... , •. , 41
·.Marysville •..•••..••..• , •••. :. Corinthian . . . . . • . . . . • . • . . • . • . • 9
, Maxwell .... ••• .•••• •• .•.••.•• Maxwell ..........•.... : ...... 288
: McCloud •..•.•..• .• •.•.••. , •.•. McCloud . ..•... .•. .......• . ... 430
; Menlo Park ••. , • , :: .·.:,.: .......• Menlo Park •....• • •...•..•. , •.. 651
; Mendocino .... •,,;•.,:• •·:,,, •.•••• Mendocino ....• . .•.•....• , .... 179
· Merced ••••...• ·.. •·.. : . ~" • •. , ••• Y~semite ......... . ..••....••.. 99
Middletown ..• ' ... • •..•.•• •.••• Callayomi ..... • ..•....•..• • ••. 282
Milton ...••..•••..•....•.••••• Keystone ...............••...• 161
Mill Valley ................... Mill Valley .....•....••. , •. . ..• 3511

.'

GRAND LODUE OF CALIFORNIA

859

'L odge.

No.

Millville .•••••••.••.•.. : ; ..••• Northern Light .. . .. .. ....... ·. : 190
·Modesto ••• , , ............. , ..... Stanislaus ... . ...• . .. , ...•• , • , , 206
' ''
...................... Modesto .................. : .. . . 675
Monrovia .....•..•.....••..••• Monrovia· •. .....•• •••..... ·.••. 308
"
••••••.••.••..•. , ... ; .Sojourner .. .. ....... .. ..... : , .. 607
·Montebello ..••• .• .. . ........... Montebello • , ....•• • .••••••. ;:•. 451
Monterey ••••.• , ..••••. •••• ... Monterey ....•..•..•.••.• ·•••.. 217
'Monterey Park ............ . .... Ramona ..... .".. .. . ... .... :.·, .. 457
Montrose ... ••• ....• ...•• ••.••• Crescenta Valley •••• ; •••••••. ; .652
Morgan Hill •• •• .••..•••••.• , • Morgan Hill •. •. . .•. • ••....••• .463
·· Mount Shasta ••.••• • • ; ...•.•••• Sisson •....••.••••••.••.. : : • , .310
·Mountain View .•.•. , ...•... , .• Mountain View •••..••• , .• , . ; . ,194
Murphy's •.•. ••• .....•••••.. ·;.• Ophir . . •... , •.•• , •.•.••..• "., •• 33
Napa ..•••••.•..•..•...•••...• Yount ••...•.•••••. , ......•••• 12
· National City ..... ••.. •••.••.• South West •. , ...... ... .. , •••. 283
· Newman .•.•••.•..••..•..••••• Hill's Ferry ••• ; •.•••• ••. , .".. ;.236
: Needles ••... • .••...•••.••••••• Needles ..•••.•.•.•••••.•• ~ : .•. 326
· Nevada City ••••.••.... • •••..• Nevada . ...... .. ....... ; , ; ; ..... 13
North Hollywood .••• , •.••••••.• Lankershim • , .•.•.•••.•..•. ; · ·~542
!North Sacramento., .. • •.. •••....Warren G. Harding . .•. ........ •.579
Norwalk ••..•..•••.•..•..• ; .•• Norwalk ....•.. , ••••.••.••• ; •• 315
"Oakland ••.••• •. .••.••• .", .•• :-.Live Oak , ...... ,·,, ... .. ,. ·, . '. . 61
''
................... • .. Oakland ... . .......... ~- .•. ·. ...~ .188
''
. ............... . ..... Brooklyn ... .. ............. ~ ~ . . 225
''
.... .................. Sequoia. ... . .. . ... ...... ~ ... ·... 349
''
.................. ·~ ·.' .. Alcatraz ... . ........... ~~· ~. 1. ~ .244
..••.•••••.•..•••
•• ..•• Fruitvale ••••••••••••.••·;,,.·, .336
"
.............. , . •• •••• Bay View ................:. ;.;. ... 401
"
•••..••.•..••••.• , ••••• Y '3rba Buena ..•.•..•.• , ........ 403
"
•.•••••.•...•., .•... ~ . ·••• Standard .............. , •.•.•••• 440
"
, ,.
•..•..•....•••..•.•.•
, Rockridge •...••.•.• ~· •••• , ••• 468
"
............ .. .. . .... . Fellowship ............ ; • .-.. . ·.-.480
"
.•.... , .......•.•. ." ••• ·Acorn ••.......•••..••.• , , : ••• 494
"
•...•.•.... .•. ; . .... ~. Fremont .. . ... ... . ....... , : ,., .497
"
.•••..•• • • , •••• , , • •,, •• Lakeehore . .. , . , ••.••••..• • .• : . 551
"
•.....•.•••...•. ·: .. ·• ..•.Plymouth ......•••..•••••• , ., • ·, 560
"
.•.•..•••.••...• , .•••...•Foothill .•••..••••.•.•.•••..• ; • ;·;564
"
•• ••.•• .•. ....•..·,.. .... Park Boulevard .•... • , ••• , •• , ·; .•568
"
••....• ••• ....... '.•. ~ .• Chateau Thierry .•.•. ·...... ·; ·, .•.. 569
"
... ..... ..•.... . ..••• • . Dimond .....•.•.•...••..• ;..... •· •·~ 603
"
" ; . .• •.•..•. :·.... ; ...• . ,Elmhurst •.... • ••. •·..... : ...... ·.-·; 610
.......•.•..•..... ·.•.. ·.Fortitude •......•• .• ••••.••• ~. i,.-.624
"
Oakdale •..•.• •• •• • •.••.• ,; ••• Oakdale ... .• ...•••••••••• ; , •.•275
Oceanpark ....•.••. • ..•.•..•••• Ocean Park •....•. • ••••••••.•. 369

860

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Poat Office.

Lod1e.

Oceanside ••••••••••••••••••••• Oceanside •.••••••••••••••••••• 381
OjaL •" .........................Ojai ••••..••.•••• -. ............ 663
Ontario ., ••.•••••••••••••••••••• Ontario .•••••• , ••••••••••••••. 301
Orange •••••••••••.••••••••••• Orange Grove •••..••••••••••.•. 293
Orland •.•••••••..•••.....•.•.. Orland •••..••••••••••••••••••. 265
Orosi ••••••••••••••••••••••••• Orosi ••••••.•••••••••••••••••. 383
Oroville •••••••••••••••••• ; •••• Oroville •••••••••••••••••••••• 103
Oxnard •••.••..••••••••••••••• Oxnard •••••••.••••••••••••••. 341
Pacific Grove ••..••••••••••••• Pacific Grove •...•••••••• , ••••• 331
Palms ••••••••••.••••••••••••• Palms •••••••••••.•••••••••••• 512
Palo Alto ••••••••••••••••••••• Palo Alto •.••••••••••••••••••• 346
Pasadena ••••••...•••• : ••••••• Pasadena ••••••••••••••••••••. 272
,. •••••••••••••••••••• Corona .••••• •• •.•••••••••••••• 324
"
''
.................... . San Pasqual .................. . 452
"
••••••••••••••••••••• Carmelita .••.••..•••••.....••. 599
''
........ . ....... . .... Lamanda Park ....... . ........ . 627
Paso Robles •••_••.••••••••••••• Paso Robles .•••••••••••••••••• 286
Patterson •••••..•••••••••••••• Patterson •...••••••••••••••••• 488
Penryn ••••••••••••••••••••••• Penrhyn •••.••••••••••••••.•• • • 258
Perris •••••••••••••••••••••••• Perris •••••••••••••••••••••••• 411
Petaluma •••••• , •••••• , •••••••• Petaluma •••••••••.••••••••••• 180
Piedmont ...................... Piedmont . . .. . ........ , • •••• • •. 521
Pine Knot ..................... ,Big Bear ....................... 617
Pinole •••••••••••••••••••••••• Pinole •.•••••.•• , •••••••••.••• 353
Pittsburg •••••••••.•.••••••••• Pittsburg •••..•••••••••• : ••••. o&29
Placerville •••••••• . ••.•••••••• El Dorado • , • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 26
Pleasanton ••••••.••.•••••••••• Alisa! ••.•••••••••••• • ••••.••• •321
Plymouth •••••••••.••••••••••• Drytown •••••••.••• , •••••••••• 17o&
Point Arena •••••••••••••••••• Claiborne ••••••••••••••••••••. 185
Pomona ••••••••••.•.•••••••••• Pomona ••• • , •••••••••••••••••. 246
''

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

861

Lodge.

No.

No.

...................... . Compaea ..................... . 590

Porterville •••••••••••• ., ••••••• Porterville ..•••••••••••••..••• 303
Portola ........... . ............ Grizzly ........... , ••••.•.•••• •. 601
Puente ••••••••••••••.•••••• • •• La Puente •.••••• •· ••••••• .••••. 446
Quincy •••••••••• • .••••••••••• Plumas ••••••••••••••• • ••• : • • • • 60
Ramona .•••••••.••••••••••••••• Santa Maria . • ••••.•• • .•••.•••• 580
Redondo •••••••_............... Redondo •••••••••••••••• ~ ••••. 328
Redding ••••••••••••••••••.••• Reading •••••••••••••••.•••• , •• 234
Redlands •••••• .••••••••••••• _..Redlands •••••••••••••• • ••••••. 300
Reedley •.••••••••••••••••••••• Reedley ••.••_••••••••.••••••••• 304
Redwood City ••••••••••••••••• Redwood City •••••••••_• ••••••• 168
Red Bluff •••••••••••••• • •••••• ·Vesper •••••• •• •••.•••••• .-• • • • • 84
Reseda ..•..••••.•••• '. ••••••.••. Reseda ••••.••••••••.•• , ••.•••. 666

Post Oific.,,

Rialto ... .. . . .. -• . . .. . .......•• . .Rialto • .•..•... , • .....•• .. ...• 582
Richmond ..••.... . .•..•••.•••• Alpha , ...... • ..•••••••••••••. 431
''
..... . .... .. ......... . McKinley .................... . 347
''
.................•... Harbor .......... . . . .......•. . 502
''
................. . ... Point ............ . .......... . . 503
Rio Vista •.••.••.•...••••.•••• Rio Vista· •.••.••..••..••.••••. 208
Riverbank ••..•......••.•••••• Riverbank •••.••...••.•.•••.••• 459
Riverdale ..................... Riverdale .••....•.. -•.•••••••.• 496
Riverside •••••.•••.....••••••• Evergreen .. • .••.•.•••.•.••.••• 259
''
~ ............... . ...... Riverside .... . ............ . .. . 635
Roseville .•....•.••..• • ••••••• Roseville ..• • .••..••.•.••••.. • • 222
Sacramento • •... ; ; ; ...•••...•• Tehama . . • . . . . . . • . . • . . • . . • • • • • 3
•..•••. ; .•.••••.••• Washington .••.••.••••..•••••• 20
"
••.•..•....•••••.•• Sacramento . . •.••...•. . .•••... 40
"
•.•••...•• .• .•••• • • Union . . ... • ..•••....•.•••.••.• 58
"
•..• , •..•..••••••.• Concord . .•. •••...••..••...•••• 117
"
•. . .•... . ..••••..•• Capital City .....•••.•..•.••••• 499
"
•• • ••...•••..•••••• Piovident .. . •...•.•..•..•...•.. 609
"
· .• · · ... · • • • • · · .... Three Pillars . •..••.•.. • •..•.... 613
"
Saint Helena •• • . •..••• • ••.. . •• Saint Helena • • . • • . . • . • • . . • . • . • 93
Salinas ...•.......•....• . ..•.... Salinas • • •.. • .•••••••..••••••• 204
San Andreas • . •.. ; ..•••.•.• • •• Calaveras • . ...... . . . ...•••... . 78
San Bernardino ......... . ...... . Phoenix •••••..•• • . • •.••••.••• 178
''
. . .............. San Bernardino ............... 348
''
................ Damascus .... . ................ 648
San Clemente . . ......•..•..... • Ban Clemente . . •.•.•..• .•• .• • •. 671
San Diego ....••.•..•••.••..••• San Diego . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . 35
''
.... . ................ Silver Gate .................... 296
''
....... . ..... .. ...... . . Blaekmer .... . ....... . .. . ..... 442
''
...... . .......... . ... S. W. Hackett., ................ 574
''
.... . ..... . ... . .. . .. ,Point Loma . ....... .. .......... 620
''
... . . . . . . ........ . .... Normal Heights ..... . ....... .. .. 632
''
..... . ... . ....... . ... . John D. Spreckels .............. 657
San Dimas •••..•..•...•••••.••. San Dimas .. ....... . .... .•.. .. . 428
San Fernando . • ..•••••••••••••• .San F ernando .•.••..•...••. • •• 343
San Francisco •.......•.••.•••• California . • . • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • 1
''
.. • •••••••••••••. Parfaite Union • • • . . . . • • • . • . . • • 17
''
................. Occidental'·.... . . , ............. 22
''
......•..•••..•.• Golden Gate • . • . . . . • . • . . • • • • • • • 30
''
• • • • • • • • ! • • • • • , , • Mount Moriah ... , ..... , ..... , , 44
''
.................. Fidelity ....... . ....... . ...... . 120
''
.. . .............. Hermann .................... . 127
."
..•. • .••. • •. • .••• Pacific ••.•.. . ....•... • .••... • • 133

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

862
No•

.Poat Office.

$'1n .~(~i;i.cis.co. . • ... , •.•. •.·. •. •. •.•.•.·.· ..•. Crock.e.t t . . ·: ._. ... ,. ........ ..... .. ... . .. 139

5:.:::·::: :... ::::::.:::.::'::~ :.;.:: ~~:~~!;:· ~; ~:::::::::;; ~::::: :.:!!!
''
''

''
''

''

• •• .• .• , :~ ! .~

1', ~, , ........ ,~¥i.s~i.o~ . ~ ~ ~ '!. t ~ ~ ~ ~ '! • ~ ~ '! ~ • • • • • • • •·169
~ '!. ": ·~ •• ·. ~ • •• • • • '. ~- Soµ~~ . ~~P~ F.r.an:c.i~C<? . . . ~ ........ .. 212
•. '!,":'. '!'!'~ it'!t·~··,- •. • ·Dor~~ ":·~ ·. .. ·.-..~·· t ·~":·.~. ·.·. ··"."·"'····216
• ": '! '!". 41 '! ... 41 • ) : . ~ • • • Spe~~I}~~ ~talia.n8:
~ ~ .. ~ . . ,. ..... 21~

., ": ": 41

• ": ": ": '! ,

~ • ~ • • • • • ! •• King.. ,Sol~~<?n ~~ ~ . ~ .. ~ ~ ........ 260

Starr K,i~g ": ~ ..... : ·~ .... ~ ......... 344
.... , ...... ..-"·· · .. Presidio .................... ... 354
' '
.~ ~ .~ ": ":, ~ ; ._ ": ": •• ! . •• ! •. San·. ¥r.~!l:.~~~~~. : . :~ : : . : . ~ .......... 360
''
•.•. , •. .. , •.••.• ,.. ,. _Ami_ty . : ~ ..• '. '. .. , '.. '. ..•.•••.•. 370
''
••••••••••••••• : ~ 1· Jewel
...................... .... 374
''
..... ~: .. .......: .~ ~ Rich~~~d . : -~:: .... :.: ....... ..... 375
''
. ~ ............ .--,-: Par~~~s~~ : ..... : : .. : : ... . .... . 388
~
Balde~ ·· : ~.:.: ........ : ......... 393
''
~ . ~ ~: .. ~ ..... :.: ~. Fairil;ont : .... ·.... : .......... . 435
''
.· : .· ~ . : ~ ~ .........-. Park.. . .. : : : ·..... : ............. 449
"
. : . .": ... ~ ~ ....... Bethl6he~ii' . : .. : ...... : ....... ... 453
''
............. :.... Gold0~{ ·w ·est· .... :::.: ......... 455
',.. .
. ................ 4rg0~3.Ut ....~ .. .' .............. 461
"
.....••..•••....• Paui' :R'evere •..•. : ...•• : : .• : •.. 462
"
...•. . .. : ..•.•••• Alta ·vist·a · .: ................. . 464
''
............... .·.Lincoln .~ ........... ·....... .. . .. 470
,,... .'. ~ ....... : ... VictorY ...................... . 474
·,··;·
.... : ............ Mt . .Davidson ................ . 481
· · ·; ;·
.....·.-. .......... Lebanon ·.·... ·.. ·............... . 495
"
•...•.. : •.•...••. Roosevelt ..•..•..••.. : •••..••. 500
"
........ : ........ . Argonne .....•.. . ."•..... : ••••••. 514
''
................ . Mouiit Vernon .· ................ 517
...
• : ............... George Washington ......••••.. 525
.. ·.-, . . . . . . ." : . ." ." ."::: . •.••.•. Bay City . : : : ; : : ... ·.•.....•..•..• 526
•..•..••.•..•..•• Alexandria ..•...•.......•...... 531
"
"
..•••...•. . ..• ..•.Forest Hill .........••.•..•••••. 534
,-,
~ ... ~ ............ S'eal -Rock .. ~ ~ ................ . 536
·"
. : .: .•••••••••••• Jonathan : .•. :.:••• : .•••.••••.. 545
''
....· ..... , ... , ... Just.i e0 .. . .................... . 549
"
• : ••••••••••••••• Seaport .........•.•...••••... . 550
,,
............. : ... Go1den ·city ......... ·......... . 553
·, ;
.': ............ ·~· .. EduCB.tof .: : ..... . .... , ....... , .554
"
.................. Pyramid. · .. : •....• : .•..•..••.• . 562
~ ~,' ~
................. .Mili.t8.i-y ~ SerVlC8 ........... , ,, .. 570
"
• : ..•... ~ ..••..•• Ingleside ..•• : . ••. : • ••.••••.•.. 630
' '

•• 't '! 41 •• • • • • • • •• • • • •

''

''

. ... :.. :.... :,.;fr .

863

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
San Francisco •••........• , , • , • Veritas ............ . ........... 640
· ,.,
:: .: ... . : ..~ ........_Fal ..
e·13
San Gabriel. .••••••• ·•••. ."••• ·•••. San Gabriel : ....• ; .•..•.•.•... 546
Sanger.' ....................... :. Sanger •....•••.• : •..•..•..••.. 316
S~n jacinto ................... San Jacinto ............. . ..... 338
San Jose ....• : •••.. : .. ::. : : ... . San .Jose ..•••••••• : .••• : •••••• 10
..,. · .... : ... : . . : ........ .... FrieD.ciship- .......... ::. .. • •••. 210
·,,
...· ................... . Fratefn"iif ' ..............·.. . .. . 399
,;.
: . ..........· ........... . Golden Rule .............. .... 479
ic'
••••••••••• • •••••.••.•• • John P. Jarman ................ 669
San Joaquin ........ . ... : . . .• • •. Joppa .".::: . . : ......•.. : • •..•. 508
San Juan Bautista ............... T.exas • ::. •..•• : • •••.•. . ..••.. 46
San Leandro .•..• ." .......•••.. Eden · ..•..•...•...•.•.•....••• 113
Sa~ Luis .Obispo ............ :·•• King David 'e .. . ............... 209
San :M~te'o ...•·....•. : . ...••• :·. .san Mateo . : • .••.•..•....•••.• 226
San Mig;iei ••..•..• : •. • .•.••.•• San :Mig'uel ••..••..•..•....••• 285
li'lan Pedro ...... .. ..............San Pedro: ...... . .............. 332
'' · ................... .... Point :F'irmin . .' ......... . ..... . 558
''
...............•.... A. E. F. Ii-win ................. 645
San Rafael : . •••......•..••..• Marin •.....•.••. .' .• , •.....• , .191
Sant~· A~a· :
Santa Ana .•.••..•... : • . : •..•. 241
''
......... ·........... Silver Cold ...........·...... • .505
'' ··
.·.. . ........... . .... ~ubiiee .. . ........... ~ .......... 604
Santa Ba~bara · ••.. .'..•..•••••• Santa Barbara · •... : . ...... . .. .192
''
................ Magnolia ..... . ............... 242
"
••••.•••.•• , , .•• La Cumbre ••.•.•••... • • • .•• , •• 642
Sa.n_ta Clara ••..•••...•.•...••• Liberty ... •. ...•.....•...•.•.. 299
Sant'a Cruz .....••.•.• ·• ·......•• Santa ·cruz .••.•• : •. : .••.••...• 38
Santa Maria ..........• .. •.... Hesperian . . •..... : ...• : : .•.•.. 264
Santa Monica ••.....••..•••.•• Santa Monica •.•.••...•.•.•••. 307
''
................... .Pa1isades ·...................... 637
Santa Paula .....• . •..•...•.•. Santa Paula ..•••••.•••...•••. 291
Santa ·R osa •..•..••.•.•.• , ••.. Santa Rosa ..•..•..•... . ..••..• 57
Sawielie ............•.. ·•.••••. Veteran ....•..• : .. : . • ........ 3 73
Se.al Beach ·.... . .... :: ....... ·.•• Seal Beach ......... ·... : : ...•.•. 616
Schofield · :Barracks ••. ,.~ ..: •••••• Schofield . :. : .•••.•••. , •••••.•. 443
Seba's topol · • . .••••.••.....•.••• La Fayette .•.• • •.. : .. : ..••••.. 126
Selm·a · ·• ·. : ...••. ". •••••• : ..••..• Selma . .•..•. ·.• ". .. . .... ". ..•..•• 277
Shasta ...•... : ..•.. : ••..••...• Weste'r n Star •• ; . • . : : •• , • • • • • . 2
Signal Hill .••.•••••• : ••.•.•••.•Alta Loma ••••....•• : ••••••.••• 643
Siei:ra ·city ·•·.••• ·••.•••.• : •••••• Harinony .•.••..• : •• •• • . .••..• 164 .
Sierra 'Ma"cfre' : •••..•...••••.••• Sierra Madre ..•..•........••.. 408
Si~iraville
. .... . ... ..•..••..•••..•••••• Sierra Valley •••••.•••• : ••..•• l84

weat·.·.:.... .- .. :.:.........

·.. ·. ·. ·.·.·.. ·.·..........

864
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.

No.

Smartsville •. : ..•••..•.••.•••• Rose's Bar . : . . • . • • . . • . . • • • • • • • 89
South Gate ..................... Guardian ........ : : . ........... 596
South Pasadena ............... South Pasadena ......... . ...... 367
South San Francisco •...•..•.• Francis Drake ..... : • .......•.. 376
Sonoma. .................. : . ... Temple ........................ 14
Sonora .........•.•...••...•••• Tuolumne •...•.• : : • . • • . • • • . • • • 8
Stockton ...••••••••.•.•.•••••. San J oa:quin • • . . • • . • • • • . • • • • • • 19
., '
................. ·... ·.. Morning Star ·. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 68
''
....................... Delta ........................ . 471
''
......... : ............ Stockton ...................... 498
Stony Ford ••...••..••.•..•.••• Snow Mountain .•.•• , .•. . ..•••• 271
Sunnyvale •.••.•.•.•••...•••.. Sunnyvale •.•.••....•.•.••.••.• 511
Susanville ••.•••..••.•••.••.•.. Lassen •...•...••..••..•••••.. 149
Sutter Creek •.•.. : . ••..•.•...• Henry Clay ..........•••.••••• 95
Suisun .• ; .•.•••••.••..•.••.••• Suisun • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • . . . • 55
Taft : . ...•.••. ; •..•..•.•...•.. Midway •.....•••.••..•....... 426
'' ......................... . Taft ........................... 516
Tehama .•••..•......•.....•... Molino ............•......••••• 150
Tehachapi ..................... Tehachapi .•.. ·................. 313
Temple .•••.....••....••....•. . . Temple City ....••••.•••..••..• 612
Torrance ...•.•..•.....•••..•.• 'i-orrance ....••....•.•.•..••.• 447
Tracy ...... ·.•.••. : . .•••.•.•.•. Mt. Oso •...•....•..••.••.•...• 460
'fruckee .•...........•.•....••. Truckee •.. • .... ; .••.•.••••.•• 200
Tujunga .•..•...•...•..•..••••• Tujunga ••..•.•.....••....•.•. 592
Tulare : ....•..•.•.....••••..••. Olive Branch ...••.....•.•.•••. 269
Tuolumne ..................... East Belt .............. . ...... 391
Turlock ••.•.••....••....••.••• Turlock •....•.....•••..••..•.. 395
Ukiah •..•••..•..........••••• Abell .....••...•.••..•.•••••.• 146
Upland ..•.•.•••.••..•••••••••. Upland •.••.••.•..••.••.•.••• ,419
Vallejo ....................... Naval ........................ 87
''
........................ Solano ............ ; ....... . ... 229
''
....................... Vallejo ....................... . 487
Vacaville ..................... Vacaville ..................... 134
Van Nuys ..................... Van Nuys .................... 450
Venice ...•.•..••... : .••.•.•••.• Triangle ••...••.••.••••••.•••. 548
Ventura •••.••.••.•.•....••••• San Buenaventura .••.•.•••.••• 214
''
....................... Poinsettia ......... ·............ 633
Victorville .•••••••.•.•••••••••. Victorville •..•.•..••••.•....•. 634
Visalia ••...••.•....••••..•••• Visalia ....•.•• ·.•.....••....... 128
Volcano ..•.•••...••••••••••.•• Volcano . • . • . . . • • • . • • . • . . • • • . . 56
Walnut Creek •••....•..•••••.• Alamo •....•.•••...•••••...••. 122
Wasco ..••.•.....•.•••.••••••• Wasco ................•..••... 583
Watsonville •..•......••••••••• Pajaro .•.....•.•..••..•••....• 110

Post Office

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

865

Lodge

No.

Watts . .... . . . ... . ............• York .. . . . ..... . ........... .. .423
Weaverv\lle ... . ..... . .....•.•• Trinity . .... . . .. .. . .. .. .... . .. 27
Weed .. .. .... ......... . ....•.• White Pine •................. . 555
West Hollywood ... .. ........... John :Marshall ......... .. ...... 636
West Los Angeles ............••• Veteran ...... . .......... . ..... 373
Westwood ....... . ......... . .•• Westwood ...... . ........ . .. . . 501
Wheatland . .. . . .. .. ....·. .• .. .. Nicolaus . . ... .. . . .. . ..... . .... 129
Whittier .. ........ .. .........• Whittier .......... .. ..... . .... 323
''
...... .... . .. .. . ... . . . .Greenleaf . .. .. . . . . ... . . .. ... . . 670
Winters .. .. . . ... . ..... . .....•• Buckeye ....... .. ..... . . . ..... 195
Willits ........... . ...... . ....• Willits ..... . ....... . .......... 365
Willow Glen . ... . . .. . .... . .. . .. . Willow Glen .. .. .. . . . .......... 676
Willows ........ ... ......... . .. Laurel ....... .. ... . ...... . .. . . 245
Windsor .. .. .... . .... . .. . ..... Russian River ·. .. . ............. 181
Williams ..... ; ...........•.•.• Tuscan .... . ... . ..... .. . . . .. .. 261
Wilmington . . .. ... .......•.. . • Wilmington ..... . .... ... . . . .. . 198
Woodbridge .......... . ......•• Woodbridge ... . . . ............. 131
Woodlake . ........ . .... ... .... . Kawea h .. . ..... ... .. . . . .. ... .. 665
Woodland . . .. . ... . ...... ; ... . • W oodland . . ....... . . ... ....... 156
Yolo . ...... .. ............•.. ; . Yolo ...... . ... .. ..... .' . . . . . . . . 81
Yorba Linda ............... . .. Yorba· Linda ..... . .... . ....... 469
Yreka ...............•..•.•••.• Howard ...•................... 37
Yuba City . .... . .. . ..... . ..... Enterprise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
CORRESPONDENCE
October, 1931
BY JESSE M. WHITED

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
Herewith is submitted my Eleventh Report as Chairman of the
Correspondence Committee. As usual, the views expressed under
the various topics are the individual ideas of the Chairman.
There continues the same general similarity as to questions and
conditions in the Craft as heretofore, with the exception that during
the past year the loss in membership, together with its accompanying results, have brought forth queries as to-"Whither are we
drifting?", "Is Masonry shifting its basis?", "What shall we do to
be saved?", etc. We believe that one of the best presentations and
suggestions along this line was the address of Grand Master Chas.
H. Johnson of New York, before the Conference of Grand Masters
in Washington, D. C., in February, 1931. We wish that space would
permit the presentation of his entire Address, but the following are
apropos:
"We heard last night a very interesting talk by the Bishop of
Washington in which he referred to certain critical situations m
which the Church finds itself at . the present time.
"The fact of the matter is, gentlemen, that it is not the Church
alone that is in a critical situation at the present time, but most
American and other institutions are also facing crises ·at the present
time; and among the institutions that are facing such a crisis is
the Institution that we represent here today."

• •. • • *
"There is nothing written on the books anywhere that Masonry
is bound to continue, any more than it is written that America is
bound to continue. Other great organizations have existed and
passed out of existence. We have lots of remains in this country
today of great mastodons and pterodactyls and many other prehistoric forms of animal life that have passed away, mighty as they

2

REPORT ON CORRESI ONDENCE

were, because they could not adapt themselves t o a new climatic
condition, to a new environment, and they died and passed out of
the picture."

*

*

*

*

*

"The Chu rch 1s not sacred to the criticism of mankind. The
School is not sacred. The fami ly is not sacred. No institution
of society today can escape. the acid test of the modern scientific
development of mind ; and this organization, proud as we are of
its antiquity, and proud as we are 'of the grand men who have lived
in the past, cannot bank on those things in the 20th century.
"We are proud of the George Washington Memorial. But who
in the modern world cares, wh en it comes to a show-down, whether
he was a Mason or not; and who cares in the outside world whether
we care that he was a Mason?
" Masonry has got to meet this situation on something other
than a historic basis, on something other· than pride in antiquity.
It seems to me th at there are certain things that we have got to
do to meet this changing world and changing conditions that face
us. A smug satisfaction over what has been done, a calm interior
of ·soul over our great history-and we are old and we are bigis not going to help us to meet the new generation of the new age;
and one of the first thi'ngs that I would like to submit to you· is
this, that in order to meet this :Situation in the future we have got
to see to it that there is a better under standing of th.e art.
"We talk a good deal about the · ignorance of people outside of
Masonry regarding Freemasonry. We might talk a great deal more
about the ignorance of people inside Masonry r egarding Freemasonry.
"What do your Members know about Masonry any more than
the three degrees they have gone through when they were partly
in a mental haze and a mental daze and it affected them merely
. as a repetition of words? What do they know about the background?
The mysticism of Freemasonry, as someone has called it here today,
is an entirely unknown territory to most of our members. H ow
many of ·them think of it as an insurance organization? They tell
their wives, 'You need not worry any more. If anything happens
to me the Ma:sons will take care of you the rest of your life. You
don't have to worry about the children. The Masons will take
care of them.' It is thought of as a grand and glorious insurance
fund at th e smallest possible per capita cost under the sun.
"You would be surprised, my friends, if you tried to make an
analysis of the mental attitude of your members, t o find how many
men consider th e Masonic fraternity purely a cheap insurance affair.
"And there are others who think of it purely as a social affair."

•

*

*

*

*

"Another matter which I think must concern us as we face· the
future of this organization is the financial situation. You cannot run

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

3

Masonry o n emotion: You cannot run· this organization on sentiment. You cannot run it on the glory of John Hancock and George
Washington and all the other great heroes of the past. It requires dollars and cents to carry on this organization. If w e promise
that we are going to care for them the rest of their lives, and all
of their family likewise, their sisters and their cousins and their
aunts, it is going to take a large amount of money to run t he Order,
and it means that we will have to face a financial reorgani~ation in
order to meet our financial responsibility and not have a man turn
away and say, 'Well, they promised a lot, but they d idn't m,ake
good that promise.'
"We have got to consider the same qµestion in r egard to our
charities. H ow are we going to carry on our charities? Most
organizations are th inking in terms of institutions. We all know
that the most expensive form of charity is the institutional form
of brick an d mortar and stone, with grounds to be kept up. Institutional charity is the most expensive of all.
''H ow shall the Lodges and the Grand Lodges who have
taken upon themselves this great obligation in the future meet the
expense of the proper care of those whom they have willingly
assumed as dependents and whom they have promised should be
ca.red for all their lives?"

* *

* ·*

*

There is, of course, no "meeting of the minds" on any particular
remedy. Grand Masters, Grand Orators, Chairmen of Correspondence Committees and others in authority, or students of the questions present different remedies. That we must hold fast to the
principles and teachings of Masonry is perhaps the main idea of
all the suggested plans. How this can be handled is, of course,
another question.
· As heretofore within the limits of this Report cannot be considered all of the questions that receive attention. A summary of
some of these are as follows:
DRAMAS: Some ~ne who claimed to know, states that 90%
of the people are " eye-minded", and that the greatest opportunity
for Education was through methods of enlightenment along that
line. The Grand Lodges of Colorado, Nevada, North Dakota and
Nova Scotia have had presented at their Annual Sessions plays
founded upon Masonic incidents or history, which have been written
by persons thoroughly conversant with the subjects. This form of
presenting information seems to be one that will produce results,
and we believe could well be embodied in a program of any Committee on Education with great profit to the Craft.
DUAL MEMBERSHIP: The discussion of dual or plural
membership, with its various subdivisions, has continued to receive

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPO RT O N CORRESPONDEN C E

consideration from a number of Grand Lodges, in some cases resulting in the enactment of laws permitting the same.
Those who have adopted it seem to have suffered no bad results. From statistics it would appear that only a very small
number are taking advantage of this opportunity to assist or participate in the activities of a Lodge other than their Mother Lodge.
This class of Members, therefore, appear to be Brethren who are
interested in Masonry and desire to do actual work, rather than
mere "joiners."

certainly would be beneficial to the Craft in general, as too often
the average Mason and non-Mason readers assume that Masonic
periodicals published by individuals or firms represent the thought
and ideas of the Grand Lodge.

4

EASTERN STAR : As one Chairman said, the Order of the
Eastern Star is still agitating the minds of some of the Jurisdictions.
Brother Darrah of Illinois, we believe, hit the nail on the head
when he wrote:
"The Order of the Eastern Star is a distinctly woman's organization and as such it has a place in the world and an opportunity
to do much good. The sooner the Order of the Eastern Star
restricts its membership to ·women only and excludes the masculine
gender the better it will be for that organization. Much of the
present trouble arises not so much from the women themselves as
from the males in the Order who, failing to acquire distinction in
the Masonic fraternity, present themselves and their offices to the
Order of the Eastern Star where they soon become 'whales among
fishes'."
I
In some of the Jurisdictions the Order of the Eastern Star has
assisted financially and otherwise in .the work of Homes. In one
place while the Grand Lodge was called from labor to refreshment,
· the ladies called and presented a check for $25,000.00 as an Endowment fund for a Hospital.
EDUCATIONAL LOAN FUNDS: This activity of some of
the Grand Lodges continues to function along desirable lines. The
Educational Loan Fund of tlie Knights Templar has reached such
proportions that the Grand Encampment recently abolished the
assessment of their individual members, the interest on the amount
so far collected being sufficient to take care of the demands upon
the fund. While an educational loan fund has never been established by the Grand Lodge of California, it should be a source of
satisfaction to know that the Educational Fund of Oregon was
created in 1852 by their Grand Master Berryman . Jennings, who
occupied an important place in the early history of California
Masonry and the formation of our Grand Lodge.
GRAND LODGE BULLETIN: ·A few Grand Lodges issue
an official Bulletin at regular intervals for the benefit of the Craft.
It is furnished free to certain classes, . and a subscription charge
made to others. One of these outstanding publications is the Grand
Lodge Bulletin of Iowa. An official organ of the Grand Lodge

5

GRAND MASTERS' CONFERENCE : It is to be regretted
that the general membership of the Cr~ft cannot receive the benefit
of the observations of the Grand Masters of the United States, who
annually meet in Washington in February. As one of the Correspondents has said, this meeting is generally looked upon as a
means of boosting the George Washington Memorial, and suggested
that ·perhaps an American Masonic Congress might fulfill a long
felt want. There are certain questions of general Masonic Practice
which could be standardized in all of the Jurisdictions, without
violation of the doctrine of "Stat es' Rights." Perhaps if Masonry
is going to face the future it can only be through a united effort
of all Jurisdictions working to a common end.
The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts invited the Grand Masters
1
of New England and New Jersey to a Conference which was highly
commended by some of those present. Perhaps this idea might be
followed by the Pacific Coast with good results.
OFFENSES: There seems to be a general trend towards
adopting the form of a Trial . Commission, composed of members
appointed by the Grand Master to consider particular cases.
The Committee on Appeals and Grievances of one of the Jurisdictions having a large membership reported that no cases had been
presented to them at that session for consideration. This situation
had never arisen before in that State.
In another Jurisdiction the Grand Chaplain asked permission
to offer prayer for the erring Brothers after the report of the ·
Grievance and Appeal Committee was read. In some of the Jurisdictions there seems to be an aversion to disciplining members who
have violated the Volstead Act or the Jones " Five and Ten" law.
One Grand Master was asked if an initiate who served a term in a
Federal penitentiary for violation of the Prohibition law would be
barred from advancement, and the ruling was that within itself he
would not. The Jurisprudence Committee, however, disagreed and
held that a vote for advancement covers CHARACTER as well as
PROFICIENCY.
ORDER OF DE MOLA Y: This organization generally continues to receive the praise of those who are thoroughly familiar
with its ideals and · purposes. A few uninformed persons, both
Masons and profane, still continue to speak of it as a Junior
Masonic organization. Initiates into the Order of De Molay are .
given to understand that there is no connection between the Masonic

6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Fraternity and the Order of De Molay, other than the interest which
the Craft takes in an effort to perform a service to the rising
generation.
Shortly after President Hoover was inaugurated he organized
what is known as THE WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON
CHILD HEALTH AND PROTECTION, working under the Department of the Interior. Dr. Harry E. Barnard was given the
direction of the work. Some 1200 experts, touching the various
fields of the life of the child, have been hard at work gathering
facts and data since the organization of the Conference. When the
reports by States have been made, being the result of the work of
over 150 major committees, and the data printed it will total over
20,000 pages. Dr. Barnard in addressing the Grand Council at its
1931 meeting at Washington, D. C., stated:
"Fellowship, co-operation, responsibility, citizenship, and leadership are encouraged and developed in varying degrees through different boys' organizations. There are many organizations for the
youngsters in school. Several of them have come to our attention
and we feel that they are doing splendid work, but when the boys
come to be 15 or 16 years of age they are different boys from the
youngsters up to that time. There is a very sharp and sudden and
. definite change in their nature, and society has taken very little
thought of the nature of those boys between the ages of 18 and 21."
"The De Malay movement, as I have seen it and as I know it,
is the movement which is giving these young qien of ours their
opportunity to develop leadership. Do you know that there are
about a million gifted children in our schools today? The children
who, when they reach adult life, will be the leaders in our society.
We are not giving those gifted children the kind of education which
fits them for leadership. We are giving them just the same education that the average boys and girls get. As I study the De Molay
movement I see that you have found a way to give a select group
of our young men between 18 and 21 the opportunity to develop
the power which will make them leaders in society."
"I want to tell you how glad I am that I have had a chance in
these last few months to do what little I could to help you in your
great work. We believe that you have found a key which, when
properly used, will let us into this great opportunity where the boys
who are to be our leaders in the years to come are receiving their
finest education."
That President Hoover is in sympathy with the work of the
Order qf De Malay is evidence of the fact that on March 16, 1931
he accepted Honorary Membership in the De Malay Legion of
Honor.

Lodge requires that the old records be forwarded to the Grand
Secretary for safe keeping. This would seem to be a reasonable
regulation. A number of the Grand Lodges, through a Grand Historian or History Committees are endeavoring to preserve information from sources that will in the course of time be lost or destroyed
unless some provision is made to preserve them.
This work is also being supplemented in some of the Jurisdictions by establishment of "Research Lodges." New York and North
Carolina in the United States hav~ recently chartered Lodges for
this purpose, and England, Ireland and Nova Scotia have for · some
time followed a like procedure.

RECORDS: Some far sighted Grand. Lodges require that their
constituent Lodges keep their records in fireproof vaults. One Grand

7

TEMPLES: Regulations requmng that constituent Lodges
must submit plans for Temples to the Grand Lodge before building ·
are being adopted by Jurisdictions who have profited by the experience of those who pioneered the idea. In some cases it has too
often been "locking the door after the horse was stolen" but produced a salutary effect even in such cases.
In a number of cases Jurisdictions that have had a law that a
Temple could only be occupied by a Blue Lodge are allowing them
to be used by other organizations. In some cases sentiment has
caused the change, while in others the increased revenue appears
to be the reason.
Some enthusiastic Masons who were all on a World Cruise
adopted a resolution suggesting that an appropriate memorial at
Jerusalem, in the form of a "Masonic structure, beautiful in appearance and of practical service to all visiting the Holy City" should
be erected. One Foreign Correspondent called attention to the
present financial condition of the Washington National Memorial,
and suggested that it would be just as feasible to plan a memorial
on the site where the " Legendary Hiram Abiff might have been
born."
THE SHRINE: Some of the Grand Masters when invited to
• participate with the Imperial Council of the A. A. 0 . N .. M. S. at
Toronto refused to do so, while others accepted and found no cause
for comment. The Board of General Purposes of the Grand Lodge
wherein this meeting was held, made the following comment:
"The Order in Ontario, and particularly in Toronto, has just
passed through a novel experience, to which, it is not unfair to
say, many Brethren had looked forward to with concern. Grand
Lodge has given official recognition to the serious danger involved
in the association with Masonry of bodies which are not strictly
Masonic (though admitting none but Masons to membership) and
are not under the control of Grand Lodg~ or the Grand Master.

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CO RRESPONDENCE

Inevitably, when such bodies attract public attention by spectacular
displays, involving huge expenditure, the uninformed multitude regard their proceedings as exhibiting Masonry in some at least of
its aspects, and so a wrong impression may be given of the aims
and ideals of the Craft. Masonry at its best has always been
retic~nt, not seeking publicity and indeed shunning and prohibiting
it. Thus the Masonic regalia is never to be worn in public except
at Masonic funerals or by special dispensation. It is a long march
from this ascetic reserve to the gorgeous pageantry on which Toronto
eyes have just been feasting; with its magnificent massed bands, its.
fl.ashing scimitars and the oriental splendor of its costumes. This
is not a development of English or Canadian Masonry as we understand it. Whether its association with Masonry adds to the influence and dignity of the Craft, or commends the Craft to the good
judgment of the sober-minded, must remain a matter of opinion.
But as those attending the convention are all our Brethren in
Masonry we may at all events congratulate them on the success it
achieved. The attendance was large, though much below extravagant forecasts; the public demonstrations made a great impression
upon vast throngs of spectators, and there was much light-hearted
foolery which for the most part stopped far short of offensive license.
We may congratulate them also upon their benevolence, particularly
in relief of crippled children, and their declarations in furtherance
of universal peace."
·

There is, of course, a difference of opinion as to whether or not
this Memorial is worth the amount expended or to be expended.
The statement in the fifth paragraph of the address of Past Grand
Master Johnson, quoted in the first part of this Report, represents
one view.
LATE ARRIVALS
We regret that the 1931 Proceedings from Michigan, New
Jersey, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, British Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Saskatchewan and Western Australia, were
received too late to be included in the main body of the report.
We have, however, been able to include the comments in the Correspondents Report under "Bouquets and Brickbats" of this Jurisdiction.

WASHINGTON MEMORIAL: It is planned to dedicate the
Washington Memorial in May, 1932. It is generally known that
in 1908 it was proposed to erect a building at a cost of not to
exceed $100,000.00 to house the valuable relics of George Washington owned by Alexandria Washington Lodge No. 22, A. F. & M.
In 19i6 the figure was advanced to $500,000.00; in 1920 it was
increased to $1,000,000.00; in 1922 it was increased to $1,S00,000.00.
The total expenditure for everything to date amounts to $3,212,575.64. The amount required to finish the project is now fixed at
$1,339,422.02, or a grand total of $4,551,997.73. This does not include
the amount that must be raised for an endowment to cover the
maintenance during the future years. It has been suggested this
should be $1,500,000.00.
California stands 33rd on the list, having contributed $130,381.10,
or 91.8% of its quota of $1.00 per member as of July, 1930.
If the money already expended, and the estimate necessary to
complete it are correct, and is not changed, it will require a levy
of $1.70 on the present Masonic membership instead of $1.00 as
originally planned.

9

We also desire to express our thanks to the Secretaries of the
several Grand Bodies and of the Grand Lodges of the United States,
the Editors of Masonic publications, and to other writers who have
directly or indirectly furnished material which has furnished the basis
for some of the opinions expressed in the report.
We hope that the information or ideas contained in this Report
may prove entertaining or instructive and perhaps inspire further
research on the part of the Reader. If it does it will be a sufficient
reward for the labor and time involved in preparing it.
Yours sincerely and fraternally,
JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman.

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Jesse M. Whited, Chairman
Martin Griffith
Byron F. Hillhouse
Trustom R. Dinmore
Martin Ortlieb
C. M. Hickman
Henry Mottet
Charles Ziegler
Bion S. Gregory
A. Cogliandro

10

REPORT ON CORRESPOND.ENCE

ATTENDANCE
The present · conditions of modern day life make the average
Lodge meeting, as a means of attraction to its members of very little
moment, and particularly so in the large cities. Prescribing a remedy for this is a difficult proposition. The conferring of degrees, set
educational programs, mediocre entertainment, etc., cannot compete
with the radio, the talkie or the automobile.
Originally Masons met in Taverns because they were the meeting places for social life and where could be found a community
of interest. Ritualistic work was not the main attraction. The desire
for Fellowship was the objective. If this basic idea could be reestablished there would undoubtedly be a larger attendance. One
Grand Lecturer has suggested that the Ritual be abridged. This may
be a straw to show which way the wind will ultimately blow.
Idaho (1929):
(Chairman Correspom!cncc Committee): Within the memory of men
not yet old, conditions were much simpler. Men in those days had leisure
evenings, and the Lodge room afforded them a place to spend a pleasant
hour. Homes were much more isolated and roads were of the pioneer
type. Having little else to do in the evening, they enjoyed going to Lodge,
where· beside disposing of their Masonic obligations they met congenial
spirits and talked over the problems of the day with their neighbors.
Then came the automobile, good roads, moving pictures, radio and many
other modern forms of attraction, and the old days passed away never to
return. Men are no longer troubled with idle evenings. There are so
many things to do and so many places to go that there are not evenings
enough in the week. ·In order to attend Lodge now they must forego some
other pleasure or business engagement. It is more interesting to turn on
the radio and listen to the varied and attractive programs that are offered,
or to step into the car and speed away on a drive to the neighboring town.
Men no longer need to go to Lodge for a diversion. Those who go
now must do so for a more substantial reason. It must be more because
of loyalty to the Lodge, love of Masonic principles and teachings, or because of a deeper faith in the fundamentals of the Fraternity. These are
new conditions, and it can readily be seen t?at the problem of Lodge attendance assumes greater importance.
Illinois ( 1930) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): As is most natural, everybody seems to be offering remedies for the present Masonic decline.
Masons who are really interested in the Fraternity are trying to find out

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

11

why Lodges are not better attended. The thought has been advanced in
several ~uarters that perhaps we are wearing our members out with too
much Ritual. It has been suggested that the charg~s at the ·close of
d~grees .are long, tiresome, boresome dissertations, and that these
might with propriety we reduced and condensed. It should not be
forgott~n that Masonry during the last 40 or 50 years has been
largely m control of ritualists. Grand Officers in many instances have
b~en recruited from the ranks of Grand Lecturers. Inasmuch as the
Ritual was the one thing in the Fraternity which appealed to them ,
they naturally gave most attention to ritualistic promotion. The
result has been to some extent a multiplication of lectures and
charges, until as a. matter of fact some of these have been made
:eally burdensome. In Illinois there· has been for some time a feelm~ that the ?istorical account of the third degree might with propriety be ab:1dged, and that several long explanations and charges
connected with that degree might with safety be condensed.
·
The Grand Lodge of New York has been giving serious attention

t? the. ma.tter of Lodge attendance. A general survey was made of the
s1tµation m t?e state and it was found that many Lodges were poorly
attended while others found difficulty in getting a quorum. The
Grand Master suggested an investigation into the causes as to why
Lodges ar~ not better attended. He recommended the appointment
of a committee to make a general· survey, and if possible find out why
memb~rs ~f Lodges failed to attend the meetings. New York is not
al~ne .m this ~atter of Masonic remissness. The same condition prevails m . practically every jurisdiction in the United States and the
cause will be found simply in ou r different method ·of Jivin~. Nowadays men go where they are interested. The city club, the country
club, the. golf club, the church society, bridge and dancing clubs all
have the'.r devotees because the men who attend them seem to be intereste~ 111 that particular diversion. The Masonic Lodge is no longer
the social center of the community. There was a time when it was,
but that. was. before we had so many different opportunities offered
us for d1vers1on. Lodges, as a rule, hold too many meetings. Most of
them are not content to hold two stated meetings per month but
they call ~any special meetings for the conferring of single de~rees.
solu_tion of the present decli ne in Lodge attendance will be found
111
groupmg the work. If L odges instead of calling a special meeting
to confer .the second degree upon a candidate will be permitted to
group their work so that they will be able to confer theit degrees
upon cl~sse.s of candidates, it will be fo und that there will be a new
awakenmg m Masonry. The rule that each candidate must receive his
degree separately obtained during the period in Masonry when candidates for degrees were very few. Nowadays· when Lodges raise fifteen

?ne

12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

or twenty candidates in a year there is every reason Why the purposes
of Masonry would be best served in grouping initiates. Whenever
Lodges are permitted to group work haste will be eliminated; officers
will try to do better work; there will be more attention to details;
proper musical features will be introduced ; and the work instead of
being a tiresome grind will become something plea.s urable to behold.
Brethren should not be blamed for not . going up to Lodge rooms
simply to hear long tiresome ceremonies of opening and closing, and
the reading of bills; nor should they be condemned for not wanting
to go up to se~ degrees conferred in a hasty, careless, slipshod manner. If Lodge attendance is going to be improved there must be a
revolution in Lodge matters. Men used to go up to Masonic Lodge
rooms because they didn't have any other place tci go, but that time
is all over and past. Very. few people go to see the finest theatrical
production more than once. It stands to reason that the number of
times that men are going to look at a Masonic degree is decidedly
limited unless that' deg.r ee is presented in a way and manner that has
a direct appeal to them. One reason why the Scottish Rite degrees
are so successful and the attendance upon the;e bodies is good is due
to the fact that they do not work two or three times a week thereby
wearing everybody out. By conferring their degrees at a fixed period
upon classes of candidates and in a most excellent manner they are
able to hold the attention of large numbers of members. The question of Lodge attendance is a big one and requires considerable study
and investigation to get at the cause of non-attendance.
Iowa (1920):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): \Ve know of two Masonic
Temples in our own state where the card rooms are always full and
they have a hard time in getting a quorum a t the Lodge meeting.
What about it, Brethren? Whither are we drifting?
Michigan (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee} : The Committee on Masonic Education says "that Lodge attendance is a problem of the
Fraternity not only in New Mexico but in other jurisdictions also.
• • • Interest in the Craft is as keen as ever except for attendance at
the communications of the Lodge." Non-attendance is a recognized
"summer complaint"; in some places a n indisposition apparent all
the year through.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

13

CIPHER RITUALS
There are two schools of thought regarding the use of printed
Ritu'a~s, Cipher or otherwise; one represented by the majority of
American Lodges and. the other by England, Scotland and the Jurisdictions who owe their origin to those Grand Lodges. In this age
of ~rinting, nothing seems to .be sacred. Even though laws are passed
aga.mst the use of Cipher codes, Grand Lecturers complain that their
use still continues. Undoubtedly where printed Rituals are used there
is less stress placed upon proficiency in this particular function of a
Lodge and more time given to the worth while things. Read Western
Australia's excerpt.
New Jersey (1930):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: It seems hard work to get
rid of this Cipher Ritual business, but it can be done if the Grand
Masters will sit on it and sit on it hard. There is no need for them.
Their use is a violation of obligations and the reason for them is
only a lazy man's reason that he has not enough "industry and zeal
to gather the knowledge," but wants to read it out of a book.
.
9hio (1930):

(Grand Master): One of the District Lecturers reported that a
.Lodge in his district had been supplying leaves from a spurious
Ritual to the candidate to assist him in learning his lectures. Th.is
custom had been in existence for some time, but the Secretary felt
that it should be discontinued and so reported to the District Lecturer. When the Worshipful Master's attention was called to the
violation of Resolution 12, he replied that no such Rituals had been
supplied to candidates during his term of office and that he had
ordered all members of the Lodge to dispose of such property.
It has also come to my attention that a publishing house located
outside of the State of Ohio which publishes spurious Rituals has
been circularizi~g the candidates of some of our Lodges, eve~ before
they have r eceived the Master Mason Degree, offering to supply
these Rituals. The question naturally arises, how does this house
secure the riames of these candidates?
. Note 5, Section 91, of the Code, is very clear ori . this subject,
stating:
"The giving of information or data, or permitting it to be done
by officers or members of a Subordinate Lodge F. & A. M. of
Ohio, from which a Masonic Roster or Directory is to be compiled
for commercial purposes, knowing the purpose for which said information ·or data is to be used, or when facts are ap·parent from
which such use may be inferred, is hereby declared to be in viola-

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

tion of the fundamental principles of Freemasonry, contrary to the
best interest of the Order, and unmasonic conduct."
Texas (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master of Illinois
finds that " Notwithstanding the repeated warnings that have gone
out in years gone by, the practice of using printed keys to the Ritual
has not been eradicated." He calls attention to the severe penalty
attaching to such breaches of the law, but we fail to find any administrative act tending toward its enforcement. Texas has similar laws
and has passed through like experiences. Now and then you will
find a professing student of Masonry insisting that he should be
permitted to own copies of such keys, ciphers or exposes as he may
find himself able to purchase. Somehow, he imagines these to be
quite an adjunct to his Masonic library. At this point, we confess
our obtuseness, since for the life of us we can't imagine any legitimate use to be made of such productions of the fraud. Anyhow,
the Grand Lodge is the custodian of the esoterics of the respective
Jurisdictions, and certainly has the undeniable right to say who
shall have it. Personally, we have never understood how even a
Grand Lodge could find it consistent to commi~ such work to writing in any form. Anyhow, we outlaw it and at present are not annoyed thereby.
Utah (1931):
(Grand Lecturer): My experience in this office has convinced me
that a key on the work of the floor teams is desirable. · After endeavoring to thoroughly consider the question from all angles, I
recommend that the Board of Custodians be authorized to prepare a
cipher covering the work of the floor teams in the second section
·of the Third Degree and that the Grand Lecturer furnish each Lodge
with two copies.

*

*

*

*

Following a brief recess, the Grand Master announced that the
next matter of business would be the consideration of the Grand
Lecturer's recommendation that a "cypher" be prepared of the work
of the floor . teams in the Second Section of the Third Degree. A
motion to adopt was discussed, and upon vote being taken, was carried, and such cypher will be prepared by the Board of Custodians.
Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Ciphers or keys to the
esoteric work (we call them Rituals) are banned in Wisconsin.
However, the Grand Master found they were used in several cases,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

15

and he directed attention to the fact that such use constituted a
Masonic offense. It does, not only 4n Wisconsin, but. in quite a
number of other American states, although other American Jurisdictions permit their use. In Australia we follow the practice of
England and Scotland, and use carefully printed Rituals, and we do
not fee l Masonically sinful for it, nor fin d many o·utsiders who yearn
to know our secrets. In the United States, however, especially where
the printed word is prohibited, booksellers do an excellent trade in
wonderfully well-compiled Rituals, mostly the work of renegade
Masons.

*

*

*

*

There was not much of outside interest in the Grand Master's
address. Brother Chase (Rhode Island) offered some interesting
observations on the question of " ciphers," or Rituals, as they are
styled in most Empire Grand Jurisdictions. He communicated with
every Jurisdiction in the United States on the matter, and was able
to assure the Rhode Island Brethren that "ciphers were . permitted
in only one New England Jurisdiction ; while New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia and
Tennessee, and 24 other United States Grand Lodges, prohibited
their use, and the remaining 15 permitted them." He expressed h imself in favor of indefinitely postponing the matter, believing that
Rhode Island could get on without the use of s uch books. The precise grounds on which opposition to the use of the "printed words"
in a more or less veiled form is raised, do not appear, as a rule,
when this matter is ventilated in various Grand Lodges. Occasionally, one finds that the existence of such a work is violative of the
obligation, which would seem to be the strongest ground, if such
were really the case; but the writer believes it would not be difficult
to prove that the obligation is not broken. The other ground sometimes presented is the danger of the book falling into profane hands,
but this idea is an exaggerated one. At any rate, in Western Australia, as in the other Australian States, it has not been fo und, up
to the present, that whatever the disadvantages may be, they have
outweighed the advantages. The Rituals are published under the
sanction of Grand Lodge, and the most scrupulous care is exercised
in order to preserve the esoteric character of the work.

CO-ORDINATE BODIES
There is no doubt but that the attraction offered by most coordinate bodies has a greater drawing power for the average Mason
than "the work" of the Blue Lodge. This, we believe, is due in a
large measure to the variety offered and the absence of continual
repetition. Even the adoption of Regulations fixing a limit between

16

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HEPORT ON COHHESPONDENCE

the time petitioner receives his Third Degree and when he can
apply to one of the co-ordinate bodies does not appear to increase
attendance at or interest in the Blue Lodge. Perhaps in some measure this is due to the fact that after a petitioner is raised no further
attention is paid to him. If he desires to secure "further Light" he
must find it in a library or in some other organizati<?n having membership in the Masonic Fraternity as a prerequisite.
While the Blue Lodge, as a matter of fact, properly contains
all that there is in Masonry, it perhaps plays the same part to the
present Masonic set-up as the elementary public school plays in the
entire Educational System. The co-ordinate bodies may be likened
to the Junior Colleges or Universities without detriment to the elementary branch itself.

District of Columbia (1930):
(Grand Master): The fact remains, however, that in any organization composed of Masons, no matter by what name it is known
and rega.rdless of its affiliation or non-affiliation with any national
organization or federation, every Brother is responsible solely to his
Lodge and his Grand Lodge in matters of discipline, since Grand
Lodges recognize no other jurisdiction over a Master Mason. This
fact should be borne in mind by every organization predicating its
eligibility, to membership on m.embershig in a Blue Lodge, because
no Masonic offense can be dealt with save through the Lodge of
which the offending Brother is a member.
·

Arizona (1931):
(Grand Master): I believe that one of our present weaknesses
is the tendency on the part of our members to become affiliated with
entirely too many organizations, clubs and activities, thereby diverting their attention from the legitimate work of the Blue Lodge to
other channels. I fear that divided duty and responsibilities which
would inevitably attach to dual membership, would be just another
step in the wrong direction.
. Canada (1929):
(Chairman Corr~sponden,ce Committee): Americans have a genius
for organization. It has been said that whenever three or more of
them meet, they organize, elect a chairman, adopt by-laws and assess
dues. As a people we indulge in a peculiar passion for joining. American men also seem to possess another outstanding idiosyncrasy.
At one time or another each of us passes through a silly season, the
duration of which is controlled by the shape of the individual head.
Some men never recover from it, while others emerge in time and
are restored to normalcy. It is during this silly season that we develop a fondness for horseplay. We follow the rule of the "monkey
see, monkey do" and become imbued with the idea that the submission of our persons to slap-stick indignities so inflicted as to tickle
the risibilities of beholding multitudes, will promote . our standing
·as good fellows and thus contribute to a blissful success in life. Many
·men, eminent even in Masonry, have at one time or another found a .
drooling delight in subjecting themselves to the manhandling of
horseplay organizations, and subsequently in perpetrating hilarious
outrages upon their less informed Brethren. There is scarcely a male
intellect, no matter how brilliant or how stygian, that escapes either
a temporary or a prolonged attack of this mysterious malady.

17

Montana (1930):
{Chairnum Corrcspo11dcnce C0111tnittcc): Among his activities the
Grand Master of Connecticut reported an invitation to be a guest at a
dinner of Order of Rainbow for Girls, attending a meeting of the
Eastern Star, and being made a Prophet at sight by · the Mystic
Order, Veiled Prophets Enchanted Realm, othel'wise the Grotto.
It seems to this Reviewer that such activities have no place of
recital in a Grand Master's address; they s,uggest some recognized
connection with Masonry, which they have not, so far as Masonic
Grand Lodge recognition is concerned; the Grand Master may be
delighted to become an inmate of an Enchanted Realm and ravishing
houris may encompass his horizon, but what have these sweets· to do
with his Grand Lodge; surely they were not intended as propaganda;
we believe in Masonry as a man's order, a Masonic ·Fraternity freed
from all adjuncts however delectable they may be to the individual
who may join them.

Nevada (1931):
(Chairman Correspondeiice C ommittce): A resolution requmng a
member to be a Master Mason· for one year before becoming eligible
to any other organization drawing its members from Master Masons
was rejected by the Jurisprudence Committee of Colorado.
We have .been working upon such a regulation for several years
and have found that it does not hurt any of them a bit to learn a
little about Blue Lodge Masonry before jumping into the intricacies
of the so-called high degrees. I believe a five-year period would be
none too long, because the Masonry that we should be particularly
interested in is all within the tiled recesses of our Blue Lodges.

North Carolina (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): There is a Masonic law
in Colorado which prohibits the solicitation of members for the so-

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

called higher bodies within one year of raising of any candidate.
A resolution is now adopted, suspending this enactment for one year.
We tried this prohibition for a year, a long time ago; but this writer
is quite certain that it is not correct in principle.

to be ill advised. Voltaire once said in reply to one of his critics,
that while he did not agree with him in any respect, still he would
fight to the death any one who endeavored to prevent his antagonist
the RIGHT to a free expression of his ideas. In social, political and
other fields the endeavor to prevent the expression of opinion, comment or criticism has only produced disastrous results.

Western Australia (1930):
( Chairma11 Corrcsponde11ce Co111111ittu): In its report, the Board
of General Purposes of England, under the caption, "Quasi-Masonic
Organizations," directed attention to the increasing activities of a
body recently established in England, terming itself a fraternal society, and claiming to be ruled by a Grand Lodge, in this case styled
"The Grand Lodge of Great Britain."
It transpired later on that the organization ~eferred to was one
of those many American fraternal bodies with a penchant for an
animal name. A list of such societies almost suggests a "Zoo" catalogue-Moose, Elks, Lions, Buffaloes, Eagles and so forth. In the
present case it was the first named of these, an organization which
not only confers benefits on its members, but is held in high esteem
in the United States on account of its philanthropic undertakings.
At the same time it po,ssesses certain features which have led. at
times, to it being confused with the Masonic Craft, and, therefore,
the action of the board appears to have been well judged.

CORRESPONDENCE REPORTS
·. It is but natural that the compilers of Correspondence Reports
believe that greater use could be made of their efforts. Whether this
will ever be done is problematical. The cost of supplying these reports to the entire membership would, of course, be, prohibitive.
One of the Jurisdictions makes it a practice to furnish the same
to their members at a small cost, and the experiment, so we are told,
has proven worth while.
Something out of the ordinary in connection with these reports
occurred in the Grand Lodge of Maryland. When the report was
submitted the Grand Lodge took exception to certain . of the opinions or criticisms contained therein and ordered them eliminated
before the same was printed in the Proceedings. This is the first
time we have heard of such action. Of course it is impossible to
tell what was expunged, but in view of the fact that comments,
criticism or opinions of the Chairman of a Committee are well known
to be those only of the individual and not of the Grand Lodge,
the establishment of a censorship or any kind, assuming that it is
based on nothing more than a difference of opinion, seems to us

19

Florida (1931):
(Chairman Correspomience Committee): There are two major objectives in Masonic reviews, as ye scribe looks at it. One is to record
concisely and interestingly the more important activities in each
Grand Body, but with no thought of criticism, unless it possibly be
constructive, and for comparison by the Florida readers and thinkers,
also to bring out the differ_e nt angles with which a proposition can
be considered. The other is to present what has been accomplished
and the methods used, with the hope that officers and membe·rs will
find that which is helpful and practical and which can be made of
service to the Craft.
Iowa (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Its report (on Foreign
Correspondence) is to give the Mason of one locality and one state
accurate information as to the achievements and accomplishments of
Masonry in other states and localities, and to show him what the
Masonic institution stands for in the world at large. * * * In spite
of a firm and solemn resolution never to deviate from the ancient
landmarks or suffer them to be infringed, we find that Masonry has
taken many and varied forms of activity in different states and jurisdictions, and that the Masonry of no two of these is exactly alike.
* * * It is the duty of the fraternal correspondent to try to picture
to his Brethren by means of extract, quotation and comment, not
only what is said and done by the leaders of the Order, but also the
mighty movements that are being carried on by the harmonious
workings of the Masonic masses, guided and inspired by th:i.t splendid
leadership. (Musings of a Fraternal Correspondent. Page 13, etc.)
Maine (1931) :
(Chairmcm Correspondence Committee): The Committee submitted its formal report over the signature of Past Grand Master
Brother. Edwin D. Crites (Nebraska). It is of the topical variety
and submitted as "an experiment" his thought and purpose being to
use the space of the report under "subject heads of what might be
termed matters· of current interest." It follows the method of California with success, the only que-stion being-is it the best way?

20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Maine has no complaint because the reviewer has generously treated
our jurisdiction, using several extended quotations from Grand Master Cooke and citing your Maine correspondent many times, using
his entire "Foreword" on Trial by Commission. And it is none of
our business anyway if the Nebraskan Brethren approve, that settles
it for us, but it is difficult to review that particular kind of report.
Mexico (1930):
( Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Only those who do this
perform a similar task know the long hours and patient ·search-the
knowledge of law and jurisprudence required to produce something
that will be of interest to our readers. We doubt if any literary work
in the world is worse paid than reviewers or correspondents' efforts.
Try it and time yourself and .you will begin to realize a reviewer's
work is not a profitable one, on the financial side, but a satisfactory
one if you feel you are doing somethin&' for the Fraternity's advancement and benefit.
·

*

*

*

*

Too many of these fine items are lost sight of once the Proceedings are filed away. They· should be reprinted in some Year Book, for
the pleasure and attention of future generations.
Montana (1929):
. (Chairman CorresP011de11ce Committee): Grand Secretaries and
Chairmen of Foreign Correspondence Committees are to us familiar
names of men whose loving and lovable personalities seem to stand
in living presence before us ; there is no sham or hypocrisy about
them ; there is no ignorant populace · upon whose credulity" they may
· ply tricks of thought, logic or reason; they are all virile, manly human
beings whose sole ai.m is to advance the cause of humanity and to
help the attainment of the true light.

We shed tears of sorrow when one of these men departs from
this earthly sphere and rejoice in the greetings of those who take up
the burdens and working tools of those ·who have fallen and join "in
bidding them Godspeed in their endeavors.
No envies or jealousies mar the comradeship of these Brethren
w~o dedicate themselves to the service of Masonic altars.

Nevada (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Chairman of the Correspondence Committee of Kansas suggests in his foreword that the
Masters have the reviews of a few jurisdictions read at each of his
meetings 'and thus give the members a better knowledge of the
Masonry in other parts of the world.

21

All jurisdictions, nearly, are preaching education and I believe,
as he does, the method mentioned would disseminate a knowledge
that is now held by a very few. Almost every jurisdiction pays weJI
for their Correspondence Reports, so why not use them.
South Carolina (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Con~mittee): T he work of the Reviewer
is not au easy task. He soon discovers that he has two classes of
readers. One class is made up of ·his fellow correspondents whose
experienced insight into things Masonic is such as to demand of him
fine discrimination, keen analysis, and piquant discussion. The other
class consists of the rank and file of his own jurisdiction who are
looking to him to furnish such information as will tend toward an
intelligent comprehension of contemporaneous Masonic history, and ·
without which they have no other source of supply. He may try
to satisfy either or both of these classes. If he is ambitious to win
for himself a place of distinction at the round table he may spend his
time breaking lances with the Knights of the Goose Quill in an endless tournament. If he desires to serve his constituency according to
its need he will endeavor to give an intelligent statement of the facts,
events and departures to be found in the current history of the Masonic world. If he is unusuaJly gifted he may strike a happy balance
and please both classes. If he is not so gifted he will find himself
among those who are "damned if you do and damned if you don't."

DUES
Present conditions have brought very forcibly home to some
of the Jurisdictions that Masonry is too cheap. In the final analysis,
Masonry is a luxury and those availing themselves of the privilege
should · be prepared to pay for it. Small fees and dues not only
handicap the constituent Lodges, but likewise cause deficits in the
activities of the Grand Lodge.
One Jurisdiction has required constituent Lodges to set up a
budget and advance their dues to take care of the expenditures.
The initiation fee to be carried in a reserve fund and not used for
maintenance. Paraphrasing the general idea that there should be
"less government in business and more business in goveri)ment,"
there should be more business methods and safeguards in Masonry,
particularly in the financial department.
Alabama (1929):
(Chairman Corresponde11ce Committee): The Committee on Correspondence of Western Australia also comments on our action in regard to charging ministers of the gospel $10 for the ~egrees as
follows:

23

REPORT ·oN CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Grand Lodge decided to allow the degrees, in the discretion of
Lodge, to be conferred upon ministers of the gospel without payment
of fees for such degrees, but subject to the requirement that each,
before taking the first degree, must pay $10 to the Masonic Home
Maintenance Fund. What would happen in the case of a Jewish
Rabbi, a Mohammedan Mullah, or a Parsee or Hindu Priest, if either
became a candidate?
Like many of our American reviewers he seems to think this
new legislation. Ministers of the gospel and Jewish Rabbis have
always received the degrees in Alabama without the payment of fees
and this is the first time any effort was ever made · to make them
pay anything. The Mohammedan, Parsee or Hindu priest would
receive the same treatment if we had any of them in Alabama.

try to run on $2 per year dues, including charity assessment. One
charges $10 per year, twenty charge $5, but $2.50 and $3 is the popular rate. The average Lodge dues, including charity assessment, is
$3.12. One Lodge collects $10 for its permanent charity fund from
. each candidat e. Another point of interest is that only two of the
Lodges running on $2 per year dues charge for suppers, and the
fifty Lodges that do not, reported having expended $1,841.98 for free
suppers during the year. Members of those Lodges enjoy all the
benefits of J.iasonry for four cents a week with an occasional free
supper thrown in.

22

British Columbia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committl'e): They have a custom in
Florida of making honorary members (or emeritus members, as they
call them) of Brethren who have attained the age of sixty years, and
this irrespective of a Brother's financial position. In some Lodges
the Grand Master found men worth anywhere from $100,000 to $1,000,000 on the "emeritus" list, for no other reason than that they
were sixty years of age. How advantageous this is to the Lodge
is evidenced by the Grand Master's statement that in some of the
Lodges from 15 to 25% of the membership was on the free list, while
in one Lodge one-third of the members were paying no dues.
Maine (1931):
{Grana SecrelMJ•): I wish to say a word in defense of the Secretaries of our Maine Lodges in regard to the charge so often made
here and in other Grand Jurisdictions, that Secretaries are very
largely, or entirely responsible for suspensions for non-payment of
dues. I honestly believe "the charge wrong and unjust. I sent a
questionnaire to every Secretary asking how many of the suspended
Brothers lived out of town, and how many within easy personal contact. All except nine Secretaries reported and the replies showed
that over 78% of those suspended lived out of town or out of the
state, and that 96% of them had been given one or more mail notices
of amount due before action was taken by the Lodge. The Secretaries of Maine are not responsible for suspension losses.

*

*

*

*

Masonry is still very cheap in Maine. Of our 207 Lodges 155
still charge the minimum fees for degrees. One Lodge collects $60 ;
fifteen, $50; one, $45; eighteen, $40, and fifteen, $35. Fifty-two Lodges

Maryland (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): As far as showing a dues
card for the current year is concerned it should be remembered that
a Mason's first duty is to his Lodge and is there any reason why
the Fraternity should allow its members to pay dues to every organization which demands that a dues card be shown, while arrearages
are allowed to accumulate and the Lodge "hold the bag" for such
members? For ·the further information of Idaho's correspondent it
may be well to state that Maryland had a survey made concerning
the dues situation and found that the Lodges were secondary to
quite a number of members who promp.tly" paid dues to, and were
"regulars" in parasitic bodies.
Masonry must run its organization along business lines and as
one eminent Brother has said speaking in this connection " Every
Mason is a liability as well as an asset." From another angle it is not
fair to those Brethren who pay and pay promptly to carry the burden
for those who can pay and "won't" pay. Of course, as it is declared
the Lodge may remit dues and this takes care of those Brethren
whom misfortune has overtaken.
To show that the step above taken by the adoption of these resolutions was well taken it may be noted that over three hundred delinquents were suspended.
Altogether the operation of these laws is very satisfactory-the
Lodges now getting the dues in their several treasudes instead of
having the debits as an ornament on their books.
Mexico (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : In our Jurisdiction dues
are payable in advance. We do not think a member should enjoy all
the rights and privileges for a year before he pays for them or for
his membership in the Fraternity.

25

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REpOR'.r ON CORRESPONDENCE

Tennessee (1931):
(Grand Master): Many of our Lodges are attempting to carry on
their work without sufficient dues to meet their needs; in some instances, just enough to pay their per capita tax. In such cases I have
urged an increase, sufficient to meet the demand incident to the success of a ·well-ordered Lodge. In many cases I could trace the inactivity of a Lodge to its lack of funds, due to the ridiculously small
amount of dues charged. In my opinion, this is extremely harmful.
In other cases, well defined programs are carried out, ~uc to the
fact that adequate dues are charged.
I have tried to convey the idea that there was much more to
Masonry than the mere conferring of degrees, and that especially .in
our rural communities, our Lodges should be made the community
center. To do this they should be made attractive and inviting, and
the Lodge should also have sufficient funds to relieve distress, have
social functions, and accomplish deeds of kindness, To be leaders in
their community should be the desire of every Lodge wherever situated.
Let's raise our dues, not to the point that it will be a burden, but
in order that we might get the best out of our efforts, and by this
means, contribute not only to the relief but to the pleasure of those
with whom we come in contact.

Brethren even more tardy than those mentioned by Brother Pegram
in paying up, and they are not thereby deprived of those rights and
privileges which belong to a Mason in good standing. And Wes tern
Australia is not the only state in Australia which treats delirnquent
members with such consideration.

24

Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): While it is a fact that
high dues will not prevent suspensions, it is open to question whether
dues of a paltry amount do not belittle the Craft in the eyes of
Craftsmen. In Western Australia, we do not mind paying £4 (about
$20) per member as annual dues, and in some of our Lodges even
higher is paid. The lowest is £2.12s. 6d. (nearly $12.50). But, in this
state, we have not that galaxy of so-called "higher degrees," which,
in the United States, impose dues which might, with greater advantage, go to the Blue "Lodge.

*

*

*

*

What is "the world" in the eyes of an American? The writer was
told by a Sacramento (California) business man that "the world" was
the United States, and that nothing outside counted for much. "We
are the only jurisdiction in the world, so far as I· am able to find,"
said Brother Pegram, "that permits a Brother to remain a Mason,
in good standing, for fifteen or sixteen months, without paying any
dues for that time." Well, in a tiny part of the real "world," a tiny
part nearly a third the size of the whole United . States, and known
by the name of Western Australia, there are quite a number of

EDUCATION-MASONIC
Up to the present time efforts along Masonic educational lines
have produced varying results. In some Jurisdictions it has been a
failure· and has developed the fact that Masons do not generally
want Education of any kind thrust upon them. We believe that the
proper time to educate . Masons is during the period between the
conferring of the first and the third degree.
· This, we believe, is best exemplified in the Jurisdictions that
present to the Candidate some recognized work on Masonry. Curiosity, in a large measure, will at least cause the petitioner to make
himself familiar with all or part of its contents.
Alberta (1930):
(Grand .Master): A speaker who will explain to a district meeting why we address the Great Architect of the Universe in the first
degree, the Grand Geometrician in the .second and the Most High
in the third; and extend his remarks by telling why the heel is slipshod, why the Lodges have a Druidistic flavor; why the Ritual
savors more of the poetry of Milton and Chaucer than the Proverbs
of Solomon, and why the secrets were lost; for he will never fail to
grip and hold his audience. These things are what the Brethren need
at the district meetings, more than listening to the parrot-like rendition of the accustomed degree.
Delaware (1930):
(Grand .Master): I believe the plan adopted by N cw Jersey of
presenting to each candidate on their receipt of each degree a copy of
Street's Symbolism of that particular degree with the compliments
of the Grand Lodge, thus taking advantage of Masonic interest at its
white heat, would go a long way toward giving the kind of instruction that .would wonderfully illuminate the ritualistic work of our
degrees. The making of Masons is a high privilege; the making of
intelligent Masons is a serious and important duty.
I, therefore, recommend that this body make ptovision in its
budget for the presentation to every candidate receiving the degrees
of Freemasonry a copy of Street's Symbolism of the First Degree

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

27

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

26

on receiving his First Degree, a copy of Street's Symbolism of t~e
Second Degree on receiving the Second Degree, and a copy of Streets
Symbolism of the Third Degree on receiving_the Third Degree, each
properly inscribed with the compliments of the Grand Lodge of
Delaware.
Minnesota (1930):
(Grand Master): We are taught that Masonry is a progres.sive
science, but after initiation, our newly admitted Brothers are given
little, if any, assistance in the study of this great work. Our .Brethren
agree that our ritualistic work is beautiful but that it contains much
to be explained and studied. To whom shall they turn for assistance.?
"To the officers and members of their Lodge," you may say. But
consider carefully before you make such answer. How many of us
here today could undertake such a work without rece.iving s?me
authentic 1 reliable information to form a basis for such instruction?
I firmly believe that it is not only a duty, but a privilege for this
Grand Lodge to supervise this work, that our young men may know
what Masonry is, what it means, and what to do with it.
If we delay longer, the results are obvious. We shall continue to
lose many fine young men who would otherwise remain in our ranks
and grow in Masonry and in usefulness to their fellow man, community and state.
Montana (1931):
(Grand Master): At different times I have heard speakers lecture on the history of ancient Masonry. On one occasion I listened
to a Brother who traced the origin of Freemasonry back to the Garden of Eden, and he told us that one of the ashlars symbolized in the
degrees was the stone on which Jacob slept in the wilderness. He
wandered so far into antiquity and theorized on such unsound
depths, and played with the names of the patriarchs, that the attention of the Brethren became listless and some were on the verge
of boredom.
I am not interested in knowing whether Jacob, Solomon, or any
of the ancient patriarchs were Freemasons, but I am vitally interested
in knowing whether the modern patriarchs of Masonry are measuring up to the demands of today. Modern Masonry demands modern
methods of application and the world at large is waiting for us to
adjust our Masonry to the changing conditions of a modern and
complex civilization.
Nebraska (1931):
(Grand Master): During recent years many of our Lodges have
to a great extent become degree mills only. Our candidates receive

the "work" and lectures, and if we have in ~ur ceremonies inspired
them with higher ideals and loftier purposes, we are fortunate if they
do not soon lose interest, since our officers and Brethren frequently
pay little or no attention to them and they are given nothing to do
along the line of further Masonic interpretation. In my opinion a
plan should be adopted that will first interest our officers of the
Lodge, then the newly made Brethren.
Utah (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We were very much interested in the Address of Welcome to the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma. We imagined that the speaker took out his watch and laid
it on the table when he promised the Brethren that he would undertake to boil down to the minimum what he had to say. We do not
want even to appear to be hypercritical but there are certain of the
speaker's statements to which, speaking for ourself alone, we cannot
subscribe, Of course, this Brother spoke for the Masons of Oklahoma-we do not overlook that fact. Personally, we do not admit
to being a follower "of the Great and Wise King Solomon," or of
the "Widow's Son," or of "Hiram of Tyre." We more than question
if "the Bible is Masonry," and we cannot admit that our Fraternity
is a "Christian organization." Whatever we may think, in moments
of patriotic fervor, we should hesitate long before putting into type
the statement that the Government of the United States is "the greatest Government that was ever organized or existed in the hisfory
of the world." That statement will be read by our Brothers to the
north of us, by those in Australasia and elsewhere, and will help to
confirm them in the belief that we are a Nation of braggarts.
Passing over the picture suggested by the hyperbole of Washington coming into the Constitutional Convention with the snow of
Valley Forge yet on his trousers, we cannot accept the statement
that the Constitution of the United States is "just like it was written," aside from the ten Amendments to which the speaker referred.
Our impression is that other amendments have been added, some
of which would certainly cause the Fathers of that Document to sit
up and rub their eyes!
Utah (1931):
(Graiul Master): It came to my attention that where two of our
Lodges held a joint educational meeting they went so far as to
secure a speaker who professes to be a believer in communism; and
this man was actually introduced into the hall of the Lodges in
question and allowed to explain and advocate his theories and the
purpose of those who believe in communism and the overthrow of

29

REPORT .ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON ·CORRESPONDENCE

i;mr own well-established and beloved governmental . institut_ions.
Notwithstanding that it may be urged by many so-called. Americans
that they have a right to, and should listen to, all theories and advocacy of every nature with relation to govern~ent, I ~annot concede
that it has any right to be heard under Masonic auspices; for und~r
the Ancient Charges of a Free Mason, which are part of the Masonic
law in this Grand Jurisdiction, the "Mason is presumed to be a
peaceable subject to the civil powers wherever he res~des. or wo~ks,
and he is ·never to be concerned with plots and consp1rac1es against
the beliefs and )Velfare of the Nation." It therefore appear~ that
those who were concerned can have but a very small conception .of
their duty and responsibility to Masonry and especially to ~he younger
Masons who, instead of being instructed.. in the teachmgs of _the
Craft are allowed to listen to destructive theories under the auspices
of M~sonic Lodges which are thereby given tacit approval.

All of these systems proceed upon the theory that Maconic education is something to be disseminated rather than to be acquired.
They emphasize teaching and forget that it is not the teacher, but
the pupil whose efforts must be stirred.
·
Hoping to be able to work out a plan of self-education, my first
official act was to call together the Committee on Masonic Research
and Ed~cation, a loyal, devoted and painstaking committee. A plan
was formulated and twelve months of delightful labor has been performed. The Worshipful Master of each constituent Lodge was asked
to prepare and deliver to his Lodge a twenty minute address on the
"Fundamentals of Freemasonry." Each Senior Warden was given the
subject, "Masonry in the Revolutionary Period." Each Junior Warden
had assigned to him the subject, "Symbolism of the First Degree."
In order that each officer might be directed in his preparation, the
Committee on Masonic Research and Education outlined his subjectgave him the names, prices and publishers of books to be read. The
result has been amazing and I defer further comment until you have
heard the report of the Committee. Permit me, however, to express
the conclusion that Masonic advancement, whether in Masonic knowledge or Masonic service, comes from within, the result of one's own
efforts. These programs have a'imed at self-education. They are hitting the mark.
·
The greatest interest was shown in the educational program discussions. There seems to be no similarity in such systems, except
that most of the programs proceed upon the theory that Masonic education is something to be carried to the membership. Our own plan of
education was presented and it has cheered me greatly to learn that
no less than three other Grand Jurisdictions will use our plan of selfeduca tion. I was also cheered at this conference when a representative
of one of the Masonic book publishing concerns told me that his company was getting more orders for books from the jurisdiction of
Washington than from any other jurisdiction in the United States.
This, of course, because of our educational program.

Washington (1930):
(Chairma1i Correspondence Committee): Further on, in speaking
of Masonic education, Idaho says:
"The cause 0 .f education does not lend itself to the dramatic.
Education is a growth, and growth is seldom rapid or dramatic."
Here they touch upon the greatest difficulty found in trying to
educate the body of the Craft along Masonic lines. It is not a matter
of a few days, but must continue through years of diligent search,
·finding a little here and a little there, with many a prolonged search
ending in nothing, and this struggle seems to appeal to only a few of
the Brethren. In fact the modern material being accepted by our
Lodges is of far different quality from that f?und ye~r~ ago .. The
young man of today is not so much interested m the spmtual side of
life as he is in the latest sporting events, or in how to make a fortun_e
rapidly. The love of life for life's sake is dominant just now, and 1t
is only when the shades of afternoon begin to leng~hen that m?re
serious thoughts as to the fut1Jre, or even as how
_hve for .the ~1gh
ideals of Masonry, find a ready response in the maionty of mmds.

:o

Washington (1930):
(Grand Master): Due to my early training as a pedagog,
long
have felt . that the systems of Masonic education in vogue m . our
jurisdiction and in most of the foreign jurisdicti?ns proceeded'. if at
all from an incorrect conception of how Masomc knowledge 1s obtai~ed. On~ has but to read the current Masonic journals to become
acquainted with the tract system, the licensed speaker system: t~e
oratorical contest system, and the study club. Recently, .so~e JU~1s­
dictions have instituted the district conference plan, the aim bemg
to foster and promote both fellowship an.d education.

!

EDUCATION-PUBLIC
While there has been some criticism of the "Public School Observance Week" in this Jurisdiction, it has generally received approval. There is no doubt that the average Mason, the same as the
Member of 'any other organization, likes to point with pride to
some movement or work with which he is connected that has for its
object the betterment of his fellowman or his community. Interest
in the public schools we believe furnishes this, because it is a .broad
field. in which there is an opportunity for constructive work and
one that is generally free from highly controversial subjects.

30

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

31

Connecticut ( 1931) :

D istrict of Columbia ( 1930):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): One Grand Lodge has foi:
years celebrated a Public Schools Observance Week, annually. The
report of their Committee on the same notes the ever-increasing
interest on the part of the Lodges and stresses the zealous cooperation of a large number of non-secret societies. But the whole report
simmers down to a "pat yourself on the back." Only one item seems
worth while, viz., in re the good moral effect on schools in small
communities.

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The National League of
Masonic Clubs, with which 22 clubs in the District of Columbia are
affiliated, is carrying on a wonderfully patriotic work in the George
Washington University of this city, by supporting two chairs in the
Foreign Service Department of the School of Government recently
endowed with $1,000,000 by the Southern Jurisdiction of the Scottish
Rite of Freemasonry, and for this purpose is raising an endowment
fund of $250,000, and is at present paying to George Washington
University $7,000 annually.

We question if this, like the endorsement of political measures
by one Grand Lodge some years ago, is not a radical departure from
Masonic fundamentals. We are early taught that the main object of
Masonry is "to make men wiser and better, and consequently happier." Grand Lodge endorsement is much like proceedings in a
political caucus. Whatever action is taken, it does not change the
opinion of the minority by an iota. Hence it is purely academic and
of no practical effect except at times to make us appear ridiculous.
However worthy the object, we had better leave activity in its behalf
to individual Masons. The question also arises if the organized
activity in behalf of the schools could not have been safely and more
effectively left to the largely outnumbering other societies whose
cooperation was acknowledged as above.
Brethren, let us not allow our zeal, even in a good cause, to
outrun our discretion.
Connecticut (1931):
(Grand Master) : It has come to the attention of your Grand
Master that several Lodges in this State have recently passe·d resolutions either fo favor of or against measures now pending before the
Congress of the United States, and forwarded copies of such resolutions to Senators and Members of Congress. Also your Grand Master
has been invited to attend or appoint committees to attend conferences
to promote legislation to be introduced in the General Assembly of
Connecticut in 1931, all of which invitations have been declined.
Masons should ever remember that the Masonic Fraternity is
not a political organization and as such should never interfere in
either religious, political, or legislative controversies. The foundation
on which our Order is built is freedom of thought, speech and action
in such matters, and each individual Mason in acting on such matters
should apply the principles taught him in his Lodge, but should exercise his judgment in such matters according to his own conscience,
and any action taken by a Lodge as such, in controversial matters 0f
this nature, whether by resolution or otherwise, is an unmasonic act
and, as such, subject to Masonic discipline.

Maine (1930):

(Grand Master): There seems to be a general desire among our
Lodges to increase interest among our membership. This is a very
laudable effort and when confined within proper limits and carried
out with discretion is a most excellent idea. Care should be taken,
however, that there should be no discussion of any subjects which
might give rise to "angry discussion arising which will impair the
harmony of the meetings." There can be no danger of this when
subjects discussed are those which are strictly Masonic. If, however,
avowed political candidates for office give addresses in tiled Masonic
Lodges and those addresses are wholly upon the management and
operation of the offices to which they aspire, it not only is an exhibition of execrable taste, but comes near the line of unmasonic conduct.
It is not likely that all of the members of any one Lodge would agree
with the speaker, and it· is quite likely that things would be said
which would arouse contention, and the Masonic Lodge is no place
for contention on any political or religious subject.
New Mexico (1 931 ):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Vermont quotes our conclusion in the 1929 report and says regarding our comments on the
Federal Department of Education if they ever do "encourage th~
will be embarking upon the perilous course of politics with its train
of partisanship and controversy." Evidently, that is the attitude that
has kept Grand Lodges from taking a more decided stand on the
establishment of such a department. The department will come,
however, whether Grand Lodges favor it or fear it.
Oklahoma did not hesitate to endorse the National Department
of Education. A few years ago it was quite common for Grand Jurisdictions to endorse the National Department, but during the past few
years one seldom sees the matter mentioned in the pro ceedings of
Grand Lodges. Scottish Rite Masonry has never given up the fight
for the establishment of this Department, and, perhaps, if more Grand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

32

33

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE

Jurisdictions had the courage shown by Oklahoma, the fight would
not seem quite as hopeless as it does today.
Texas (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: Under the topic "Education" (Alabama) we find some really worthwhile expressions as
touching the subject discussed; ·expressions in which we can all most
heartily concur, except possibly: "Do not tell me this is out of place
in a Masonic gathering." The State Superintendent of Education, the
State Commander of the American Legion and the President of the
Alabama Education Association and the representatives of more than
"thirty statewide organizations," "the Masonic Fraternity" being one
of the number who were invited by the Governor of the State to
attend a luncheon given by the Alabama Education Association. The
Grand Master reports he was there "as the representative of the
Masonic Fraternity." Deliberately obeying orders of the Grand Master we offer no comment as to the proprieties, but must say that as
"a 'schoolteacher" the Grand Master is thoroughly imbued with the
right conception and importance of Education, and it is not so surprising that he, as a "teacher" and citizen, should have been present.
Washington (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Alabama seems to think
somewhat as do the California Brethren, that Masons should take a
greater interest in the public schools of the State. We have sounded
our note of hesitancy over this very 1question. Masonry is not organized for that character of work, and . is very apt to be misunderstood
by the general public, where Masons, as such, act in any capacity. as
a public guide, there is apt to be introduced into the Lodge outside
matters which may cause dissension sooner or later.
Wisconsin (1931):
(Chairman Correspondmce Committee): The Grand Lodge (Oklahoma) placed itself on record as favoring the adoption by Congress
of the "Capper-Robinson Bill" to add to the President'.s Ca~inet a
Secretary of Education. We are not impressed with the propriety of
any Grand Lodge recommending to Congress the passage of any
measure pending or to be brought before it. It savors too strongly of
introducing political measures into its deliberations. It should ~e as
much taboo as is the discussion of political subjects in a subordinate
Lodge. Masonic traditions have always forbidden thei.r. consider~tio~.
It was stated in the discussion that there is no oppos1hon to this bill
except on the part of the Catholic Church. Suppose :the bill were to

be adopted and that at the next }'residential election that organizat.i ons should say to one of the nominees that there were several
million of votes that would be cast in his favor if he would agree to
permit the Church authorities to name that member of his cabinet.
May not the adoption of the bill be fraught with peril? A considerable
majority of both houses of Congress is composed of Freemasons; why
not permit them to consider the measure without being influenced
by the hastily expressed wishes of the members of a Grand Lodge,
given without due consideration of the merits and possible effects
of the 'bill?
FUNERALS
Eliminating the harrowing and gruesome parts of the funeral
service has been done in a number of Jurisdictions. Lack of attendance at this ·s ervice, of course, occasions comment. This applies more
particularly to larger centers of population. We believe that the
Masonic Funeral is gradually becoming more of a private affair rather
than a public function.
The Funeral Service is one of the · few opportunities where the
general public have an opportunity to see a Lodge in action, and
too often an unfavorable impression is created by the manner in
which the same is handled or the reading of the ceremony, rather
than on account of the lack of attendance.
British Columbia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondmce Committee)~ As in some .other jurisdictions, the Grand Master (North Carolina), found reason to complain of the attendance-or lack of it-at Masonic funerals. He instanced a case in one city of the state where three Lodges are
located with a combined membership of about one thousand, where
the funeral of .a Past Master ·was attended by fewer than 30 members of the Craft. This state of things is found elsewhere than in
North Carolina, probably due in part to the fact that in the larger
cities funerals occur so frequently that attendance on them becomes·
a burden, and partly to the high pressure at which we live. We are
.. all . deeply immersed in business which deman_ds such unceasing
attention that we cannot afford .the time to attend funerals . Anyway, whatever the cause, the condition is there, and the suggestion
had been made that the so-called Masonic funerals should be abolished. When one sees the sorry attendance at some of these ceremonies one feels that the suggestion is worth considering.

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Canada (1930):
(Chairnum Correspo11dence Committee): California wants us to
come out in the sunshine even at funerals and there is a note of
inspirational truth in what is said:
In conformity with that belief, should we not, in paying our
respects to the memory of our departed Brethren, subdue the note
of woe, and sound, if we can, the harmonic of a greater and finer
faith? Should we not soothe rather than aggrevate the distress of
those who are left behind and bring them at the graveside a realization that "in the night of death hope sees a star and listening love
may hear the rustle of a wing."
Kansas (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Lodge of
Georgia has under co~sideration a revision of the Burial Service
and we quote the first paragraph of the Committee's report, which
one would naturally believe was intended to safeguard the old
funeral ceremony which has been used by the Craft for so many
years and which in itself is not only so beautiful in language that
it is beyond the power of the present generation to improve upon, .
but stands as a memorial because it was employed in laying away
the remains of many of the forefathers of our great nation, as
well as those who were outstanding characters in the annals of
Freemasonry, not only in this country, but world-wide.
North Carolina (1931):
(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Texas is asked whether the Lodge can bury the ashes of one of its
members whose body has been cremated; he having died in a foreign country. It takes almost a whole page for him to reach the
conclusion that there is no law which prohibits this. His reasoning
is after this fashion:
"I fail to find that the entire body must be huried or that if a
brother should happen to have lost his arms or legs, either before
or at the time of his death, and that for some unavoidable reason
they were not in the coffin at the time of the burial, that it would
not in any wise prevent our burying that portion of the body which
was in the casket. Following this line of reasoning, I failed to sec
why we could not also bury tbe ashes of a Brother, provided those
ashes were buried according to the forms of our Burial Services/' .

•

•

•

•

The Grand Master of Tennessee says I have had a letter of
complaint that the present manner of conducting funerals by the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

36

undertakers does not allow the Brethren to cast the spade full of
dirt on the casket, etc. I recommend that the Grand Lodge specifically authorize, as it does less specifically, the use of ordinary common sense in the carrying out of the Burial Service, conforming as
nearly as possible to Ritual.
These funeral directors began, something like a decade or so
ago, to put on so much "dog" that Masonry has to get on the jump
to keep up with them. They changed their names to "Morticians,"
if you please, and built great churches of their own for funerals ;
they invented these machines which let the remains down into the
graves; they introduced end-door copper "vaults"; they developed
artificial grass to cover the red earth which comes from all open
graves in these parts; they got up tents and so forth for the bereaved; they cut out " hearses" and introduced "funeral cars" looking like end-door sedans; and last, but not least, they put in some
flower petals instead of earth for the committal, and hired colored
laborers to do the filling. As a result, one never knows what to
expect at a funeral these days; it may be a typical country funeral
of the last century in the city, where you use the spades yourself,
or it may be one of the most modern, out in the open spaces of that
area which God blessed under the name "in the country." Andworst of all, when Masons got the habit of dying while traveling in
foreign lands, they had to have the remains cremated and then came
the problem so feelingly referred to by the Texas Grand Master
(q v.), of how to give the ashes a Masonic funeral. The Tennessee
Grand Master has hit the nail on the head: "that the Grand Lodge
authorize specifically the use of ordinary common sense in carrying
out the Burial Service." Not three hours ago we were in the act of
conducting just such a service and are prepared to testify that this
is a sound recommendation.
Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: There is one little matter
on which I must join issue with him, namely, his statement under
North Carolina ( p. 328) that "in Great Britain, whence we get our
Masonry, they have no Burial Ceremony." As I write this, I have
before me "The Freemason's Liber Musicus," by Worshipful Brother
Doctor William Spark, P. P . G. 0 ., West Yorkshire, which contains not only the full Burial Service, but the odes to be sung
thereat; also the Scottish Book of Constitutions which sets out the
full Ritual of the Funeral Service.
There is a growing feeling in many parts of the Empire that
the discouragement exhibited by the Mother Grand Lodge towards
Masonic funerals is well founded. As was shown by the present

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

writer a couple of years ago, in a review, the circumstances which,
at one time-in the Operative days-called for such a service, in
order that a stranger Brother should not be buried without funeral
rites, no longer exist today. In the United States a belief obtains
that the Masonic Burial Service is entirely of American creation,
and that neither of the Grand Lodges of the Three Kingdoms provide for such a ceremony. Such a belief is entirely erroneous. The
ceremony has been in existence for generations, but of late years
has fallen into disuse, especially in England, and almost as greatly
in Australia.

other .Brethren who for many years have been attending Grand Lodge
and who have wrought well in the quarries. Such a critici$m is unjust
and unmasonic; because none of these Brethren attend Grand Lodge
for selfish purposes, but come here, often at much personal sacrifice,
without hope of fee or reward, and solely because of their devotion
to Masonry and to the work for humanity, which constitutes its
objective. All honor to these noble Craftsmen. Without them: this
Grand Lodge would be without its anchor or any steering device.
Thank God, we continue to be guided by their experience, directed by
their timely advice and counsel and held in check by their brotherly
caution." ·
While the experience of Past Grands ought to make them wise
advisers, the fact remains that none are supermen. They are subject
to the same .human frailties and. errors as everybody else. Furthermore, they are responsible only to their consciences, and we all know
the frequent temptation to stifle that inner voice. But the Lodge
representatives, who vastly outnumber the has-beens, are morally
responsible, primarily to their Lodges and equally to the Craft in
general, to enact wise and beneficient legislation. Hence, they should
always remember that they are really the Grand Lodge.
As to advice from Past Grands, we would slightly paraphrase
the wise words of Bacon: "Read (hear) not to confute, nor yet to
take for granted, but to weigh and consider."

36

GRAND LODGE
A Grand Lodge is composed of constituent Lodges and not
subordinate Lodges. By reason of the fact that the governing power
owes its origin directly to the Lodges that compose it, any criticism
or objection to the action of a Grand Lodge must necessarily fall,
not upon the Officers of the Grand Lodge, but the Lodges themselves.
Unfortunately in some Jurisdictions the general membership
believe that they are subordinate rather than constituent parts.
In those Jurisdicti~ns where the business is conducted through
a Board of General Purposes, as in England, or handle the business
at quarterly communications, as in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and
other Masonic Jurisdictions there is more opportunity for fellowship
and social activities.
In a large number of cases the Proceedings of a Grand Lodge
read like the minutes of a meeting of the Board of Directors of a
business corporation.
British Columbia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Master might
also have said that someone must run the Grand Lodge, and if Past
Grand Masters and officers of Grand Lodge appear to monopolize
the conversation it is, to a considerable extent, due to the fact that
the "lay member" seems to be afraid of the sound of his own voice.
Connecticut (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In an address of orie
Grand Master, we find the following, with which we but partially
agree:
"More than once I have heard it said that a few Brethren run
the Grand Lodge, referring, probably, to our Past Grand Masters and

37

Illinois (1930):
(Chairman Correspo11de11ce Committee) : The Committee on Jurisprudence (Kentucky) simply dodged the issue on physical qualifications, by simply quoting from the constitutions of the Grand Lodge,
"Of all this the Lodge is the sole judge." It is apparent that' the
Grand Lodge of Kentucky has a Jurisprudence Committee just like
many others, full of cowardice and lacking the manliness and good
judgment to meet the issue fairly and squarely. It is an old subterfuge
to exclaim, "it is all up to the Lodge."

Michigan (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : There was the usual flow
of eloquence, which, in some jurisdictions, is, happily, allowed to
trickle on its way to the ocean of forgetfulness. There were the customary presentations and the always necessary installation of Grand
Lodge officers, elective and appointive. Pleasant are the closing hours
of Grand Lodge I

Presentation to the M.'. W. ". Grand Master of a beautiful traveling case and "a magnificent Past Grand Master's Jewel." "These gifts

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

affected the Grand Master greatly, and he showed how much he was
touched in his response." After all, was lhe Grand Master "touched,"
or the treasury of. the Grand Lodge?

North Carolina (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A member of the Grand
Lodge (Louisiana) offers a resolution to get amplifiers for the hall,
since he cannot hear what Grand Secretary John Davilla has to say.
Reminds us of a story about such a case that we heard about a
certain Grand Master. Somebody yelled "Louder;" and a man on the
platform got up told him to stop "for," said he, "if you were as
close as I am, you wouldn't want to hear what he has to say."

38

Mississippi (1931)_
(Grand Orator): Most Wo.rshipful Grand Master · and Breth_r~n
of the Grand Lodge of Mississippi, I know there seems to be somewhat of an imposition to go through with the formalities that 'we
carry in our Grand Lodges at this time of having what is known as a
Grand Orator.
Away back in the early days when this custom was established.
the Grand Lodges did not have anything like the amount of business
to transact that we have in this day and time. But this is the custom
that has come down and as much as most of us would like to be
excused from having to perform the duty. when the Grand Master
speaks we must obey.
New Hampshire (1931):
(Chairman Correspondmce Committee): Before they opened they
had some music, from an organ and from a quartet. Then a Brother
talked to them about Chicago. It was rich stuff. Somewhat frank.
yet picturing her as a municipal queen of queens. The popular notion
runs contrary to his praises. These notions were faced . But Chicago
still was a queen of queens, when he got through. His talk did not
completely convince us, but we confess that we are wavering.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

Amazing experiences, in their law (Georgia) prohibiting co nferring the E.'. A.'. degree, or requesting that it be done for them, as a
courtesy, prompted the Grand Master to urge that it be repealed. In
other words, he asks that one pair of handcuffs be taken off their
wrists, in order that they may become a bit more sovereign in their
pow·ers and ·quality. Grand Lodges should he supreme and sovereign.
None of them, in the U . S. A., are truly such except Virginia. All of
the rest of us are gagged and tied by limitations of our own c~eation ,
which estop us from the power of doing some things, when we want
to do them, save through the process of delay, at the expense of
effectiveness.
When it came to the election of officers (Rhode Island) the Grand
Masters of Connecticut and of New Jersey, who were present, were
appointed as the tellers. Please do not suspect that there was any
trouble brewing. They use visitors down there ·in serviceable waysmake them feel that they are somebody.

39

North Dakota (1930):
(Chainnan Correspondence Committee): Although Oklahoma is
now, like its sister state of Texas, of strong Republican leanings, yet
it is filled with good old Southern orators and the simplest motion
was a signal for someone to burst forth with eloquence. As their
Grand Orator said, his office, with so many volunteers, is about as
useful as the curl on a pig's tail. The expression stimula,tes our funny
bone and strikes us as decidedly fitting and appropriate to distinguish
the office here at home. The writer has attended the last nineteen
communications of our Grand Lodge and only twice has the Grand
Orator shown that he can be other than purely ornamental.
Philippine Islands . (1931):
(Ch.airtuan Correspo1u:lence Committee) : Somehow in this volume
one gets an impression of distaste, caused by Grand Lodge dictating
to the Lodge matters o( internal administration, lack of coordination,
Lodges refusing or neglecting to obey the requirements of the Grand
Lodge. Even the criticism of the new Grand Secretary by the old
seems harsh in print. Such differences should be seUled by the Grand
Officers. The Grand Lodge seemed to have rebuked the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary Emeritus by re-~lecting the suspended
Grand Secretary who is a Past Grand Master. When a Grand Lodge
assumes the attitude of being the boss of the Lodge, such Grand
Lodge forgets that it is merely a medium of rendering service to the
Lodge, not as an organization to make discord by imposing the
unnecessary which is destructive of harmony and makes brotherhood
and co-operation impossible.
Texas (1930):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Brother Geo. T. Harmon,
Fraternal . Correspondent, does not overlook such items as produced
by the showing that out of our 999 Chartered Lodges, only 469 were
represented at Grand Lodge. He says "this is the worst showing
that has been made to date in Grand Jurisdictions reviewed by this

40

REPORT ON · CORRESPONDENCE

scribe." Right you are, Brother Harmon. However, it might not be
amiss to point to the vast distances necessary to be traveled by repres~ntatives of our Lodges to Grand Lodge. And again, it would be
only fair t.hat we remind you that Texas pays no mileage or .per di.e m
·as do many of those Grand Lodges with whom we are bemg compared.
Utah (1931) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Grand Master William H.
Carter (Mississippi) took occasion early in his a.d?ress to urge .representatives of the constituent Lodges to participate freely m the
deliberations of Grand Lodge. In passing he remarked upon the
criticism "that a few Brethren run the Grand Lodge"-a criticism by
no means confined to the Brethren of Mississippi. Very properly, we
think, he said: "If you think a few of us are running thi~gs here, I
assure you it is not a closed ring and every one of us will honestly
welcome you 'a s an addition to the ring."
We have occasionally heard similar criticisms in connection with
Lodges. Our observation has convinced us that in such instances by
"ring" or "clique," the critic has in mind the members who ~ote the
load who are ready to respond and do respond when work is to be
don~, when some Masonic endeavor or plan is to be put through,
while the critics are usually those who, when work is to be done, are
prolific in excuses as were the men wh9 were invited to the great
supper, the story of which is told by Luke.
Washington (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The matter of the local
Lodges entertaining the (North Dakota) Grand Lodg~ membe~s by
giving them a banquet is discussed, and the fact of this bec?mmg a
heavy burden on the Lodges, is duly P<?inted out. In fact this ought
not to be allowed. If the Grand Lodge wishes the inspiration which
appeals to men through their stomachs they ought to be willing to
help pay for it. In fact to make this function a Dutch treat might
not be a bad idea.
Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In mo.st Unite~ States
jurisdictions .questions of Masonic law and practice submitted by
Lodges or Lodge members are answered b~ the Grand Maste.r, whose
decisions are subject to review by the J ur1sprudence Committee and
approval by Grand Lodge. 'They ~anag~ these thing~ .differen~ly i~
Mississippi. There, a Law Committee gives the dec1s1ons which it

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

41

details in a report for Grand Lodge's adoption. Several are of more
than local interest. It was held that a convicted criminal, sentenced
to imprisonment, but out on bond, and expelled from the Craft,
could not be prevented by Grand Lodge from wearing his Masonic
· Lodge emblem, but that the Master of his former Lodge niight call
his attention to his having lost the right to wear it, and that he was
also violating the laws of the State of Mississippi by wearing an
emblem of an order of which he was no longer a member. (In Western Australia such a question could not have arisen, firstly, because
the use of such emblem~ is forbidden by our Masonic law, and, secondly, even if such were not the case, the accused, at the time of his
arrest, would have been deprived of such property, which would not
have been restored to him till his sentence had been served.)
One of the matters spoken of will sound stra.n ge to West ·Australian Masonic ears, namely, his advice to ea:ch subordinate Lodge to
see that its Worshipful Master was sent to the next Grand Lodge
Communication "with all his expenses paid." Nothing of that kind
obtains here. Sitting Masters and their Wardens attend the annual
and quarterly communications at their own personal charges, looking
neither to their respective Lodges nor to Grand Lodges for reimbursement. This, in spite of the fact that many of them perform
lengthy and expensive journeys in this country of magnificent distances in order to do so.
Wisconsin (1931):
(Grand Master): We look to our elder brothers-men of proven
knowledge, experience and ability-for leadership and inspiration.
Theirs is a service of love. Their worth, standing and disinterested
desire to serve is beyond cavil, but in Masonry we tolerate no dicta~
tion by "boss," "lay Pope," "clique," "group" or alleged "inner circle."
Such a thing is unthinkable, unmaso~ic, foreign to' every tradition
and ideal of Freemasonry and of this Grand Lodge. Let us, then,
my Brothers, proceed with our deliberations in a spirit of harmony
and fraternal accord, trusting that we are d<;>ing the wiil of God.
·
(Chairman Correspondence Committe-e) : In our review of Pennsylvania, in view of the small attendance at their Quarterly Communications, we asked: "Would not one Annual gathering be preferable?"
The reviewer replies to this suggestion by asking another, as follows:
"If Wisconsin had received a provincial warrant from the Grand
Lodge of England almost one hundred and fifty years ago and had
followed the form of the parent Grand Lodge all these years in holding Quarterly Communications, would it at this late day be likely
to make any departure from that established custom-we almost said
landmark ?"

42

R EPORT ON CORRE S P O N D ENCE

T o speak frankly and answer the question 'directly w~ would say
that m ost probably w e w ould not ; especially if, in pur suing the old
ways we had seen .our Grand L odge become the third s trong~s t Gra nd
L odge, numerically, in the U nited S tates a nd had seen. 1t a?I.e t o
inspire in others as we ll as in its m ember s that splendid spm~ of
philanthropy manifested by the dona tions and bequests we have J.ust
en umerated, and had seen it become the ho lder of assets totalling
eighteen millions of dollars. We wou ld probably cling very closely
t o the old ways of doing things and call it well enough.
GRAND MASTER
Grand Masters still complain, and rightly, that they are burdened with requests for rulings on matters that are amply covered
by existing laws and regulations. The education .of Officers of
co~stituent Lodges in the fundamentaLs of Masonic law would mate~ially reduce this burden~ .
Criticism has also been directed to the addresses or messages
of Grand Masters wherein are set forth their visitations to oqr.mi:i:ations such as the Eastern Star, the Commandery, Scottish Rite, etc.
We believe that such invitations are primarily extended to the
Grand Master as the official head of the Masonic orga11imtion, and
not with the intention of capitalizing Masonry with the particular
organization itself. It is a courtesy only.
The privilege of serving for a brief time as the h.e ad ?f t~e
Craft, and the opi;>o.rtunity of perh.a ps performing some se~1ce, is
the only re,,;.,ard that the occupant of this high office receives . as
~ompens~ti~n · for the mental, physical and financial outlay required
of him.
Alabama (1930) ~
,
,
(Chair11u111 Correspondence Con11mittce): . T he newly elected Grand
Ma st-er, Arthur W. D avis.( W ashington), a nnou nced at his installat ion
tha t "this is not going to be a speech-making year." We will look for
a very active year .of deeds and work; from one wh.o makes .such a
s ~r~
•
Connecticut (1931):
.
(,Chairman C orrcsp01uience Committee): T hough · betraying· no
"·inferiority complex;~" the Grand Master (A rizona) opines that ~ewly­
eleoted Grand Master s are wise to rely. in· general on experienced
Grand Secretaries for g uid.a nce; · Unfortunately a few Grand Masters
are obsessed w ith the ambition to inaug urate a "policy," and when

REPORT ON CORRE SPONDENCE

43

such is the case, a Grand Secretary is powerl ess to avert such course,
which frequently leads to more or less of a wreck. But happily such
cases are rare.
Kansas (1931) :
(Chairman C orrespondrnce Committee): In splendidly worded lang uage the Grand Master set aside their prevailing custom of giving
the Grand Master a second term, by d eclining a renewal of the honor
con ferred upon him one year ago. Whi le in our own jurisdiction
we have long since ceased the practice of granting a Brother two
terms in this impor tan t office, yet t he writer fee ls that the Grand
Master's second year, so far as service is concerned, is so far ahead
of his fi rst year that there is little com parison. With a re liable, honest
and trustworthy Grand Secretary the Grand Master can do much
good for the Craft in his second year.
Illinois ( 1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Up in Canada they have
recently provided for a new officer. They call him the Pro Gra nd
Master. I t appear s that the Grand Master's work became so arduous
that he was no longer able to give proper atten tion to the many
details of his office without tremen d ous sacrifice of his business
int erests. The Grand L odge of Canada, following the usual English
custom, has provided for a Pro Grand Master. His business will he
to take from the Grand Master the many little details of the office
sµch as: answer ing questions, issuing dispensations, laying corner stones when the Gr and Master doesn't want to officiate, and perform
a m ultiplicity of other func tions which usually fall upon a Grand
Master. The ·Pro Grand Master is, of course, under the direction of
the Grand Mas ter, a nd per forms his various duties as instructed to
d o ~o. As a result t he Grand Master is left free to direct the larger
a ffa irs of the Craft. The plan gives him more time to visit Lodges
a nd go over his j urisdiction studying the general condition of the
Craft. The idea is not a bad one. There is a tremendous amount
of petty stuff that r eaches every Grand Master. Everybody likes to
personally meet the head official of the Craft and many times trivial
matter s are used as an excuse to gain a n interview with the r epresentative of King Solomon. Quarrels in Lodges, domestic rifts, money
shor tages, and a m ultiplicity of human affairs arise in every Jutisdiction each year. M uch . of this tedious detail can be handled by a
competent Pro Gra nd Master. The . idea may not appeal to a good
many who hold the idea that the Grand Master is the great " I Am,"
hut it should be .remembered that ·the high executive of today surrou nds himself with th e very best department heads he can find. He

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

never bothers with petty details, but devotes his time and talent to a
general direction of the affairs committed to him.

. Th~y dignify the office of Grand Secretary of Rhode. Island by
usmg him as the agent to make formal presentation of the Flag.
This done the next thing is to hear the report of the Committee
on Jurisprudence, upon the address of the Grand Master delivered six
months previous. We think that this is tough on the Grand Master.
It makes him wait a long time to ascertain how near right he has
done t.hings and it gives the Committee that same long, long time to
tear him to shreds. What a gauntlet for a h,uman being to run. But
they run it-there's the answer.

44

Mexico (1930) : ·
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Detailed extract is made
of our questionnaire to be filled out by the Investigating Committee.
We wish we could increase the number ·of questions. It's really funny,
hut awkward, also, sometimes what you find out about a member of
the Fraternity after he is "in"-which should have been discovered
while he was only a petitioner. Our idea is when in doubt, don't. We
have a large floating population here, on account of new mining,
petroleum, electric, railroad, irrigation enterprises. When the workers
have little to amuse or improve themselves, they want to join a
Lodge, and they as a rule do not elevate the standard of Freemasonry.
We do not permit fraternal visitation from the members of other
Lodges here because they dQ not know our work, can.not make themselves known as regular M.'. M.'. and their Grand Lodges as a general thing, are not composed of legitimate Freemasons, having treaties
with a Supreme Council--or the members and Lodges are issuing
propaga!Jda in favor of or in opposition to some political organization,
anti-church movement or something similar and therefore unmasonic.
Michigan (1930):
(Chafrman Correspondence Committee}: The address of the Most
Worshipful Grand Master covers only fourteen pages. The introduction consists of eight lines. No reference to the flight of time, gratitude to God, imperfection of service, unrealized dreams.
Montana (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Cornerstone layings,
dedications, constitutions kept the Grand Master of New Hampshire
busy. His report on "Visitations" opens with a recital of attending
the Grand Chapter 0 . E. S. in annual session; now we deem this
entirely out of place in a recital of "Masonic" visitations by a Grand
Master.
New Hampshire (1931):
(Chairman· Correspondence Committee): All this being over, tht.
Gra,nd Master surrendered the gavel to the Deputy Grand Master and
then read his address. Why they do it this way we do not know. It
se.e ms to us that in this way the chairman of a committee is making
a report instead of the chief official of the organization. It has one
advantage, however, in that there is someone to call him to order if
he gets to going wrong.

45

North Dakota (1930):
(Chairman Corri!spondence . Committee): Grand Master Dean
(Massachusetts) is one who isn't afraid of the P. G. M's. He reported
that they told him not to try to start anything, as they had already
done everything better than he could hope to do and then informed
the Craft that he could make one claim for originality at least in that .
he talked less than any of them. The retort ought to have been
sufficient to hold them for awhile.
Oregon (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): I want to again call your
attention to the careless way in which Investigating Committees
work. This is the most important Committee the Master appoints,
and upon their reports depends largely the bringing in the right kind
of material and the excluding of those not worthy. The most flagrant
case brought to my notice was from a report of Brother W. F. Kress,
Secretary of the Masonic Board of Relief of Pasadena, wherein he
stated, "I know of a Lodge which initiated a man who with five
children, was receiving aid from the county charities at the same time
he was taking the degrees, and .within a year, the Lodge was called
upon to care for his family."
No man honors our Fraternity by petitioning to become a member, but we confer certain honors upon him by receiving him into our
organiz~~ion. So why should we not make a careful investigation of
the petitioner. Some of our Lodges, in order to protect themselves
from being imposed on, have a special committee before whom the
applicant is required to appear. In my opinion our present form of
petitio~ s?ould be c?anged and also the method of appointing the
Investigatmg Committee.
South c .arolina (1931):
(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): It is a well-known fact
that an army travels upon its stomach, . and any half-witted general

46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

knows that if he can cut off the enemy's supplies, he has him whipped
to start with. So, this scribe concludes that the average Grand
Master is defeated before he begins his administration. Shylock was
no fool when he said, " You take my life, when you do take the
means whereby I live."
This scribe is ready to say to any Grand Lodge that has a Grand
Master who is willing to really ·spend himself : "Loose him and let
him go." Try it and see if the hen does not begin to lay some golden
eggs. Perhaps some of the obsessionists will begin to realize that if
some thought is spent upon the Craft at large, the Craft will begin
to think more about them.
South Dakota (1929):
(Grand Master): Because appreciate that this message is addressed to those whose understanding and estimate of the worth of
Freemasonry equals that of my own, I propose to waste no part of
our valuable time in extolling its virtues anew, or in dealing with its
glorious history. Neither do I propose to use space in lengthy report
of my formal official acts. This great responsi~ility has given birth
to a solemn conviction that we, as the present leaders of Freemasonry
in this Grand Jurisdiction, can fashion a future far surpassing the past
in effective and practical service if we will cease to blindly follow
custom and organize ourselves under an aggressive program of doing.
Texas (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master Biggers
(Missouri) reports having adopted something of a unique policy which
he presents under the heading "Business in Masonry." In short, this
policy consists of his having called into council the other three principle Grand Officers and having had their approval <ind acceptance
of the duties and responsibilities proposed, Grand Master, with these
councillors, proceeded to lay out a progressive program covering a
period of four years, thus establishing "a successive policy, and effecting a permanency and continuity of effort." To the end that efficient
and capable chairmen and committeemen might be secured, each of
these officers, the D. G. Master and Se.nior and Junior Grand Wardens
were given the privilege of naming a member of each of the committees. In addition, each of these Grand Officers were assigned to
certain official duties, such as the visiting of district meetings, etc.,
and often called into council with Grand Master. Out of this policy,
practiced throughout the year, Grand Master finds and reports results
satisfactory in the highest degree.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Utah (1931):
(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): Grand Master Reid
(British Columbia) reported that in making his official visitations, he
gave preference as far as possible (since he could not visit all in the
jurisdiction) "to those furthest from the centers of population, and
especially to those which had not been lately visited by former Grand
Masters." A most sensible plan, it appears. It may not be the case in
British Columbia, but our observation has been that Lodges so situated appreciate more highly such contacts with their Grand Master
than do Lodges in larger centers. His coming is an event to be
remembered. Members of Lodges in large cities usually have so
many interests, and there are so many demands on their time to
which they feel they must give preference that they sometimes pay
little heed to such occasions.
Wisconsin (1931) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Florida said that his elevation to office came to him entirely independent of his own initiative and without any suggestion or solicitation on his part, direct or implied. This is as it should be. All
pref~rment. in Freemasonry should come in this manner, not by
electioneering or political methods. It is then an honor indeed.
INVESTIGATION
We believe that the lack of attendance, suspensions, dimits and
expulsions can in a large measure be traced to laxity on the part
of· the Investigating Committee. Too often this is only a perfunctory matter. As stated in some of our previous reports we
believe that this could largely be overcome by having an Advisory
Committee, composed of Officers and Past Masters of the Lodge,
examine the petitioner and the members of the Lodge who recommend him, before the petition itself is present~ to the Lodge.
This would mean that the investigation would be handled by
"experts."
One Jurisdiction solved the problem by making the Investigating Committee one of the standing committees of the Lodge,
which also possesses a great deal of merit. It would of course
depend as to results on the character and ability of the Committee.
British Columbia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondc11ce Comniittee): We do not believe that a
Masonic Lodge is a place of entertainment, nor, in our opinion, is it
part of a Secretary's duty to go around dunning members for their

49

rtEPORT ON CORH!.:SPONDENCE

dEPORT ON CORRESPONDENC!:

dues. It seems to us that the cause of the disease is further back than
the Grand Master suggests, and consists in want of care in the selection of material. It would appear that the French proverb is applicable :-If you want to bring your child up properly, begin with his
grandmother.

duties, the failure of the Master and other officers to impress upon
him the importance of his mission, is downright laziness, and to say
the least, inexcusable. The code advisedly employs the word "diligently" to emphasize the importance of the duty of the Investigating
Committee. If it were necessary to define the intent of that word in
our code, one need only to take the dictionary's definition of " diligent."
Let me quote that definition: "Diligent-constant in study or effort
to accomplish what is undertaken; attentive and persistent in doing
anything prosecuted with care and constant effort; careful, painstaking."
An examination into the r oot of some of the infractions brought
to my attention indicate to me that if a "diligent iniquiry" had been
made into the qualifications of the petitioners whose subsequent acts
as members of the Fraternity have given rise to the necessity for
trial and discipline, those petitioners would have been kept far from
our Ancient Fraternity and the necessity of trial or discipline, with
the attendant unpleasantness, would have been avoided. It would be
far more honorable for a Mason who is placed on an Investigating
Committee to ask to be excused from duty on that Committee than to
make an "investigation" which is indifferent, careless, and inadequate
and therefore useless, if not dangerous, to the Fraternity. T he members of the Lodge and the Fraternity generally are entitled to and
expect the protective concern and the fidelity to duty of the members
of the Investigating Committee.
So-called "good fellowship" which encourages a member of an
Investigating Committee to favorably recommend an unworthy. petitioner or make report without diligent inquiry into, or actual knowledge of, the quality of the petitioner, not only fails to manifest
Masonic good fellowship, but is directly violating a definitely prescribed Masonic duty and may subject the Brethren of his Lodge and
the Fraternity at large. to the association of one unfit for the Masonic;
Fraternity and who may in time injure the good name of Masonry.
I urge upon the officers of Lodges a careful consideration of this
subject and a constant vigilance against all laxness in investigating
and ascertaining the qualifications of all petitioners to our Fraternity.

48

Illinois (1930):
(G1·and Master): The violations of Masonic propriety which have
been brought to my attention have impelled me to study the sources
from which they arise and ho~ best to prevent their recurrence. That
study has satisfied me that many of the causes for trial and discipline
can be traced to the indifference or carelessness of the committees
appointed to investigate the original petition for degrees or membership. It has been said-often and correctly-that Masonry is a progressive moral science. The successful practice of that science can be
accomplished only by men possessing integrity of character and purpose. It is intended that the portals of Masonry shall be opened only
to men of good character and intentions.
It was never Masonry's purpose to admit to its fraternity unwholesome or weak characters in the hope that they might be
reformed into good Masons. The offenses requiring discipline are
in many cases caused by those whose minds were never prepared
to be admitted to Masonry, and a careful investigation of their petitions for admission would have shown that they were not of good
report.
Our code provides that every petitioner for degrees shall be
recommended by ·three members of the Lodge, each of whom has a
personal aciquaintance with the petitioner. The inescapable ·burden is
upon the recommending Brethren to know that the petitioner possesses qualifications of character and is in other respects fitted to
receive the degrees. No Mason should recommend a petitioner unless
he knows or learns by careful investigation that the applicant pos~
sesses the necessary moral, physical and mental qualifications. When
a Mason recommends a petitioner for the privileges of Masonry, he
does so on his honor as a Mason. As a further safeguard against
improper persons joining our ranks, our code provides that an Investigating Committee of three members of the Lodge must be appointed
who "shall see the applicant personally and diligently inquire intQ
his moral, mental and physical qualifications, etc.,'' and make report
to the Master. It has come to my attention that at times some
members of .Investigating Committees fail to "diligently" inquire
into the qualifications of the applicant and some do not even see the .
applicant personally. Such conduct by a member of an Investigating
Committee, whether due to indifference, lack of understanding of his

Nevada (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The lodges of Netherlands do not put candidates through the degrees in the "degree-mill"
style so prevalent in many American jurisdictions. If a petitioner
succeeds in being elected by the Lodge to which he applies, his petition is then placed before the Grand Orient, which has a committee
of eleven men to pas.s upon petitions. If these ele'(en men are not

50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

satisfied there is no recourse; but, if they are, then the petitioner will
receive his degrees. The Lodges meet for degree work but three
times in each year, and the candidate has to await a period of one
year between each degree. Should he desire to take the so-called
"higher degrees" after taking his Master Mason degree, he must
await three years before petitioning to become an eighteenth degree
Scottish Rite Mason. One year each must elapse before taking the
22nd, 26th, 28th, 29th and 32nd degrees. It thus takes eight years for
an .Entered Apprentice to become a thirty-second degree Scottish
Rite Mason.
New Hampshire (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Among the decisions
(Vermont) we find one that looks as if some Lodge wanted a permanent Committee on Investigation, to whom all of its ·petitions for. the
degrees should be referred. It was ruled that this would be contrary
to the spirit and to the custom of Freemasonry. Thus did another
new wrinkle meet an early death. One of the reasons for its dying,
when so young, was the fact that there ought to have been no birth.
LEGISLATION
The general idea "there ought to be a law" still finds favor
and is lived up to in some Jurisdictions. The late Vice-President
Marshall perhaps advanced too radical a theory when he stated that
"All the existing laws should be repealed and the Declaration of
Independence and the Ten Commandments substituted." There is
no doubt but what the excessive legislation has
tendency to bring
an O•rganization to the level of mediocrity. Again, no sooner is a
law passed than some one finds a way to avo.id it, which calls for
another law or another decision, which calls for more legislation or
decisions.

a

Maine · (1931):
(Committee on h~risprudence): We are glad the Grand Master
was called upon to make no decisions. Almost every question that
can conceivably arise is now cared for in our Constitution and · Regulations. The answers are easily found in the Digest.
Maryl~nd (1930):
(Chairman Correspond;nce Committee): This statement bears out
what we have always contended, namely, that those are best governed who have the fewest laws and that a voluminous code cannot

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

51

solve the many questions of interpretation whi~h must necessarily
arise from time to time. We have called attention to this in a former
report and have also spoken of it under another jurisdiction in the
present one. We feel that Grand Master Newsom makes a ~plendid
witness against the tendency of many Grand Lodges to mcrease
Masonic legislation so that any and every question may be categorically answered which as he states cannot possibly be done.
Michigan (1930):
(Grand Master): I have always favored a policy of local sel.fgovernrrient for the constituent Lodges of this State and so long as .
its officers and members conform to the Grand Lodge law, I can. see
no reason why a Grand Master should inject himself into the local
affairs of a constituent Lodge. In other words, there are certain functions in my opinion which belong exclusively to the Lodge and so
long as the Lodge adheres to the rules and regulations of Grand
Lodge law, there is no· necessity for the Grand Master to inject himself into their affairs, although requests are often made to do so.
New Hampshire (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): · We do not wonder that
the Reviewer of Western Australia says this: "In reviewing the
proceedings of American Grand Lodges it is impossible to avoid a
feeling of amazement at the prodigious amount of legislation continually taking place." One has not fully discovered the American
until he has found out that we greatly love to legislate. It is notably
one of our traits. Our State Legislature and our National Congress
are creating new statutes by the many thousands, every year. In our
fraternities we are prone to do this as in our political life. It means
many laws, to which too little attention will be paid. 'V'( e like to
make them. It must be confessed that we like to defy them.
Quebec (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Orator Carl
W. Cummins of Minnesota delivered a long oration on the subject
of liberty and law enforcement, in which he directs attention to the
multitude of laws being enacted, all of which, more or less curtail
the liberty of the people. We agree to a great extent with Brother
Cummins, and would suggest that he take up residence in the old
Province of Quebec.
Washington· (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Comm#tee): To our humble way of
thinking, and we may be wrong, we are laboring under too much

53

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

supervision even just now. The Grand Lodges, like so many of our
State and National Legislatures, seem to be looking all the time for
something to tax, instead of trying to be conservative and hold down
taxation.
John Marshall, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States, is reported to have said, that "The power to tax is the power
to ruin," or words to that eff~ct,. and we have been wondering how
long the local Lodges would endure the extra taxes which are being
placed upon them by Grand Lodges without murmuring.

Arizona (1931):
(Grand Master) : Is is obvious, of course, that there will always ·
be slight variations in the rendition of the work. We do not expect
that our officers will be "letter-perfect" in this respect. It is of vastly
greater importance that our thoughts, time and attention shall be
directed to the maintenance and perpetuation of those time-honored
traditions of our Order relating to our moral conduct and our actions
toward our fellow members of the Craft. I would much prefer that
the officers of our Lodges make substitutions of words ·Or phrases in
the Ritualistic work than to be guilty of acts of commission or omission which would reflect upon the good name and integrity of the
Fraternity. It would be immeasurably preferable that a Master would
stumble in his phraseology than to fail in extending the hand of fellowship to the sojourner within his gates or neglect the calls of the
needy and the deserving at his door.

52

Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In reviewing the Proceedings of American Grand Lodges, it is impossible to avoid a
feeling of amazement at the prodigious amount of legislation continually taking place. With a few exceptions, all the Grand Lodges
share this predilection. Some Constitutional section seems to outlive
its usefulness not long after it is ushered into the Constitution, and
the need for further legislation suggests itself to the authorities. Also,
new quesions arise, and the seeming inelasticity of existing law impels
the authorities in the direction of a new one to meet new circumstances. In either of these cases the matter _usually runs the gauntlet
of a Grand Master's recommendation, the proposal of an amendment,
its reference to the Jurisprudence Committee, that body's report to
Grand Lodge, the latter's adoption of the report, 'and then, the infant
is either ready to crow at once, ·or it is laid over for a year till it is
strong enough to crow constitutionally. In a year or so, it is found
that the youngster has not developed the desired number of teeth,
and it goes back to Doctor Grand Lodge for further treatment. One
sometim·es wonders where this legislative urge will end-whether the
time is not approaching when American Masonic law will meet the
cynical gibe an American Senator uttered to me concerning the public
legislation of the United States. Said he: "Uncle Sam has millions
of statutes, thousands who know of them, hundreds who understand
them, and units who obey them."

LODGES
We commend to the Masters and Wardens of constituent Lodges
in this Jurisdiction the excerpts printed under this heading. They
contain suggestions which if followed might make for a better situation in some localities.
.
The opinion of the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence of Illinois, under the topic " Ritual" might also' be read ·in
connection with this suggestion.

Florida (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand "Master reported the suspension of quite a large number of Lodge charters,
mostly for not technically complying with Constitutional requirements. This causes ye scribe to wonder why it would not serve the
same purpose to amend this law, and thus avoid much of the unpleasantness which usually follows such action. One can drive a nail into
a tree and then pull it out, but he cannot pull the hole out.
Illinois (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): One Grand Master came
out boldly this year an.d said that in his opinion many of the L_o dges
in his jurisdiction were too large. In trying to find out why Masonry
was not making the progress he thought it should, he had come to
the conclusion that it was because many of the Lodges were so big in
numbers that they afforded the individual member very little opportunity for Masonic practice, and there is a good deal of truth in this.
It is believed that genuine Masonry receives better practice in the
small Lodge of two or three hundred rather than in the big Lodge of
two thousand. While the small LodgR may have its financial problems yet there is afforded an opportunity for better acquaintanceship,
and those who want to work in the Ritual and other departments of
Lodge affairs are given more chance to do so. The larger Lodge has
a greater opportunity for Masonic exploitation than the small Lodge.
It has a larger financial income; it probably has. more men of executive force to draw from in the selection of those who are to govern
its enterprises. The theory is correct, but it does not work out in
· practice. In nearly every large Lodge it will be found that just a

54

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

small group are responsible for its conduct. As no opportunity is.
offered to but a few, the majority of the membership soon lo;;e their
interest. It is believed that Masonry would prosper if divided up into
small well-organized units. In the .small Lodge there _is a. better
chance to reach the individual member. A Master can keep track of
a membership of two or three hundred while in a Lodge of two
thousand members it would be .a hopeless task. Masonry is an institution that does not thrive u.pon numbers. It is .o nly in the practice
of the principles of the Fraternity that real Masonic force is attained.
Some years ago there was quite a discussion of this subject. . There
was a general feeling that Lodges should be restricted to a membership of five hundred; that when they went beyond that number they
became .unwieldy. The one idea which has been uppermost during the
past few years with Masters .has been to get all the new members
possible in order to beat the other fellow. With new members came
consequent financial prosperity and this meant more money. to
spend for banquets, entertainments, and presents. After all Freemasonry is very largely a matter of individual consciousn~~s and
perhaps the small groups have a better opportunity to attain this state
than the large group.

*

*

*

*

It has· been refreshing to note that one or two Grand Masters
during their administration paid some attention to promptness in
conducting Lodge affairs. These men even went so far as to say
that one of the great reasons why Lodges are so poorly attended is
because of the dilatory method in which the business affairs of the
Lodge are conducted. With a good many Lodge officers·, time doesn't
seem to amount to anything. This recalls the story of a Mason who
was traveling through one of our southern states . . He noticed a man
carrying a lot o~ corn. fodder from one lot quife a little distance to
where some hogs were. The man said, " Why <lon't you drive .the
hogs over into the lot where the fodder is? It would save you a lot
of time." The man with the bundle of fodder in his arms ·replied,
'!Oh, what's time to a hog?" Perhaps in this little incident somebody will be able· to reason out why some Lodges scheduled to
meet at 7 :30 in the evening never get under way until half past
· eight or nine o'clock. In one -Grand Jurisdiction some little investigation took place as to why Lodges were not better attended. The
conclusion was deduced that the Lodges ran too late into the night.
Now, there is absolutely no excuse for this. No Lodge should conduct its affairs beyond l 0 :00 o'clock in the evening, and it can
easily observe this rule if .the Master will sound his gavel promptly
at the hour named in the by-laws for opening. Just as soon as .the
officers a nd members learn that the Master proposes to commence
on time they will be in their stations and places, but if they get

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

55

the idea •that the Master is going to open at any old time; that is
when they are going to show .up~ The ti.me has come when Masonic
Lodges, if they are to succeed, must awaken to a sense of the
responsibility which they owe to the membership and much of that
responsibility lies in not wasting the other fellow's time. In .every
Lodge that shows a lack of attendance or a lack of interest one of
the fundamental causes will be found to lie .in the dilatory tactics
of a poky Master. Lodges should see t~ it that slow moving, easy
going, shiftless men are never put in the official line. Any Lodge
that elects such a man to the office of Worshipful Master must Pf!Y
the price and that price is poor attendance and lack of interest.
New Hampshire (1931):
.
(Chairman Correspo11de11ce Committee): The Grand Master. of
South Dakota does not like rotation in office, in the Lodges, beheving that some men who would make the best Masters will not devote
the time it requires to go up the line. For us the worst feature of
the system is the starting of so many incompetents. T his is most
often not found otit until after the start has been made. There was
a~ error in judgment in making the selection, for which the Lodge
has to suffer.
North Carolina (1931): ·
(Chairman Corresponde11ce co:mmitiee) : W e referred to the size
of Connecticut Lodges in a paragraph above. The statistical tables
tell us that in Connecticut there are about 380 members per Lodge
and about 450 in Rhod.e Isl.and, against fewer than 100 in North
Carolina. The Committee on "more and smaller Lodges" reports
that this is a ~atter in which all that can be done is to educate the
Lodges and the membership to form more Lodges, which . is about
right. If more Lodges are .wanted, meaning fewer members per
Lodg~, these conditions can be had. The point is made som.~':here
that one chief reason for the preponderance of the so-called J:1gher
bodies" in America is this large size of , Lodges; for the larger the
Lodge, the more there are of its members ~ho do not have an~­
thing to do in it. These idle Masons requtre an outle.t for . their
energies and get it in other bodies. The average Lodge m Eng~and
i~ ab6u t 75 strong. The percentage of Knights Templar and th1rtysecond degree Scottish Rite men in England is so small as t o be
numerically negligible; there is no Shrine; no Grotto, no Tall Cedars,
no Seiots and the like. The percentage of influential men interested
in · Masonry is in England perhaps significantly greater than in the
States.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REf ·OHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

with all of the membership, and where there is a chance for everyone
to have something to · do for the Lodge, that a truer state of sympathy and comradeship springs up, and the institution is served.
better than by vast hordes of mere members. We feel that the Grand
Master of Connecticut was wise in making his r ecommendation for
a swarming process in the larger Lodges.
We sometimes feel that in our larger Lodges a great many
Brethren by initiation, merely get to know Masonry as an organization, and not as a living system of morals and philosophy. Where
nothing is demanded of a member save to pay dues and turn out
when convenient in order to swell the crowd, we must not expect
exemplary conduct at all times, nor that the true Masonic spirit
will pervade every initiate. Under such conditions we cannot wonder
that many Brethren left to their own ideals, will sooner or later be
led to join the so-called "higher" bodies, if for no other reason than.
to satisfy their innate desire for fu rther knowledge of the institution.
In fact, we all are restless by nature, and seek to gain that which is
new, and often mere novelty leads us astray.

Masonry is content with its accomplishments of the by-gone days,
to drape the cloak of self-righteousness and contentment around it,
and withdraw into the dark cell of exclusiveness to dwell only in
a land of abstract contemplation, . then indeed can the future offer
but little.

58

Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Lodge of Illinois
adopted a Report .of the Committee on Financial Research, ·recommending Lodges to use the system of annually budgeting their
finances, and emphasized the vital need for Lodges to adopt sound
business policies instead of the haphazard and extravagant methoqs
followed by many of them. That such methods are used, not only
in Illinois, but other American Masonic territories, seems to point
to a reason for the _paternalistic attitude which Grand Lodge assumes.
So far, little or nothing of such a need is heard in the Australian
] urisdict ions.

MEMBERSHIP
During the Revolution one of the patriots made the statement:
" These are times that try men's souls." The same might .also be
said as to the membership of the Masonic Fraternity at the present
time. It may resolve itself into the "survival of the fittest," which
will require leadership with perhaps a r adical change as to general
policy, and the adoption of new ideas.
We speak with .pride of the antiquity of Masonry. It is a golden
cord that connects us with the remote past. Abetting nothing of
respect for our Ancient Craft, we are conscious that we cannot fix
our eyes on the past without walking backward into the future. If

fi9

British Columbia (1930):
(Chairman Correspotidrnce Committee): In a general way it may
be said that Brother Darrah (Illinois) takes the stand that times have
changed and Masonry should change with them. For instance, there
is probably no point in Masonry w hich has been more strongly
stressed and we believe more generally observed, than that solicitation of candidates is absolutely barred, they must come of their own
volition. Brother Darrah, however, thinks that in selected cases
solicitation is quite proper, and goes so far as to say that he believes
that four-fifths of our candidates are solicited anyway. . He plainly
says that he "does not believe in revival meetings, he does not believe
in membership drives; he does not believe in going up and down the
street proclaiming the virtue of Freemasonry and inviting everybody
to come · in" but as we have said, he is in favor of solicitation in
selected cases, because: "At the present time Freeinasonry has much
to contend with. The competition which is all about it is strenuous.
Men are no longer flocking to the doors begging to be admitted. If
the Society is to go on and prosper it will have to depart from some
of its ·old methods and adjust itself to the new conditions of this
ever changing world." In respect to which, in the language of the
profane, our learned Brother is all wet.
Illinois (1930):
(Chairman. Carrespo11dence Committee): One of the predominant
-questions that has been suggested during the past year is this: Are
Fraternal Organizations on the Wane? After making a very careful
survey of the situation the writer is frank enough to say that they are.
Within the last few years many diversions have come into our lives
to take the place of things that predominated in the old order of
life; to say nothing of the pee wee golf courses. There was a time
when Freemasonry was looked upon ~s an organization of great
antiquity and peculiar charm. Membership in the Society of Free
and Accepted Masons carried with it a considerable amount of prestige in every commun.ity. There was a time when the fraternal
organization had an important place in our busy lives. It afforded an
opportunity for social recreation as well as building up a community
of interests. That was· when we had no movie theaters, no hard roads,
no automobiles, no radios, no flying machines, no golf courses and

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

very few country clubs. Men joined the Masonic Fraternity because
they wanted the companionship of their fellows and because the
Lodge meeting offered an opportunity for social recreation. But all
this has been changed. A man no longer joins the Masonic Fraternity
for the prestige which this great Fraternity offers. There was a time
when curiosity was the impelling instinct which prompted men to get
into Freemasonry. The unthinking world has always believed that
Freemasonry was in possession of some great secret which old King
Solomon had whispered to some of his followers, and which had been
carefully preserved and carried down through the ages by the Freemasons. Every man who went into the Fraternity with this thought
in mind was soon disillusioned. When ·Masonry was a small organization, when it did no soliciting and selected its recruits with the
utmost care, it gave high prestige to its members. Then when it tried
to popularize itself, when its idea of prosperity became the multiplication of Lodges and the doubling of membership, just that moment it
became commonplace; and as the multitude entered at one door,
prestige went out at the other. Freemasonry has learned its lesson.
Already signs indicate that there is an awakening to the fact that
Freemasonry was never intended for the many, and that its appeal.
is only to those individuals who are seeking in life the moral and
ethical.

.lllebraska (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A perusal of the proceedings of the Grand Lodges in ·far away lands impresses the reader with
the conviction that Masonic membership is a highly prized privilege
there, not to be relinquished by a Brother acquiring it under any
consideration, and that Masonic membership and allegiance is not
perfunctory, bu( vital, living and progressive. Such foreign Masons
are not so much interested in the eleemosynary activities of the
.Fraternity as with what it has to do with human tights.

Mississippi (1931):
(Masonic Service Committee ) : Hard times are crucibles through
which character passes and from which it emerges, dross-or pure
gold. These are challenging times, and Freemasonry must meet the
challenge as a reputed character builder. In these days of closed
banks and "frozen deposits" the real Freemason nurses closer to his
heart than 'ever, a banking institution whose every depositor is a
stockholder; whose stock never drops to par; whose time deposits
bear interest through Eternity, and whose strength is but increased
by a "run"-the Bank of Brotherhood! False values may at times be
placed on its · stock. During the feverish excitement of a World's
War, thousands may purchase its shares with a misconception, or no
conception at all, of their true value; on the same basis others purchase it for the sake of expediency. .From such speculation comes an
inevitable "crash in the stock market"-which shakes the entire structure. In my humble opinion, Freemasonry's problem is not one of
surviving financial depressions, but rather one of proving its right to
continued existence by imbedding in the hearts and lives of its votaries, her principles and ideals which have stood the test of blood and
fire and time in their unbroken march down through the ages.

61

.lllevada (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Master of
Arkansas states that there are only about half enough Masons in
Arkansas to take care of the Masonic relief. In discoursing on the
subject he says : "I think it is perfectly proper to suggest to a friend
whom you know is good material that you would be glad to see him
present his name for membership in the Masonic Lodge." I can't see
where the line would be drawn and am sure that what one man might
consider good material, another may reject as absolutely unworthy.
Then, again, the man who was asked and afterwards turned down
would no doubt raise the biggest "holler" and tell the world he was
double-crossed. I believe the profane is well enough acquainted with
Masonry to know that he will not be asked for a petition.
.lll ew Hampshire (1931):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Colorado hits a blow upon the head of a large-size nail, when he
affirmed that there is nothing the matter with Freemasonry, "but
there is something radically wrong with some of the members of the
Masonic Fraternity." He bunched much when he said that.
Wisconsin (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Master of
Arkansas said in his address:
"I think it is perfectly proper to suggest to a friend whom you
know is good material that you would be glad to see him present his
name for membership in the Masonic Lodge. Many men think
because they are not solicited to join the Masonic Fraternity that
they are not wanted; yet it might not be proper to beg a man to
give you his application, still I think it is eminently fitting to drop
a suggestion that you would enjoy having him come into the Lodge."
This opens up a question concerning one of our ancient customs
upon which very little is to be found, but concerning which nearly

REPORT ON CORREGPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

· all Masonic teaching and traditions are agreed, that is, that one who
comes into our Fraternity must come of his own free will and accord
and not as the result of solicitation. Mackey does not mention this
in his collection of landmarks, and yet it comes as near being a landmark as most any one of our ancient usages that could be suggested.
The. rule forbidding it is not mentioned . iri Simons or in Mackey's
Masonic Juris prudence, nor can any mention of it be found in
Mackey's Encyclopedia of Freemasonry. In Anderson's Constitutions
of 1723, under the head of " Behavior in Presence of Strangers not
Masons" it is said:
"You shall be cautious in your Words and Carriage, that the
most penetrating Stranger shall not be able to discover or find out
what is not proper to be intimated; and sometimes you shall divert
a discourse, and manage it prudently for the Honour of the WORSHIPFUL FRATERNITY."
Just how far one might go without violating the rule against
soliciting membership is difficult to determine. The term "solicit" in
itself implies something more than a inere suggestion and usually
means some sort of earnest request or importunity. ·Mild as was the
Grand Master's suggestion it was disapproved of by the Grand Lodge.

longer the executive department, but are acting purely in an advisory
role. When you hear a Past Master co~plaining of being slighted
and that his position of being a Past Master is not receiving just
recognition, you may depend upon it that . he is the victim of his
self-conceit, or that "Teckel" has been written after his name. A
Past Master can be a rich blessing to his Lodge or an unmitigated
nuisance. We, Past Masters, must recognize the fact that we have
been honored in an exceptional way by the Lodge; we have had
in an uncertain manner the confidence of the Brethren; we have
been exalted, for which exaltation only loyal service can offer a
suitable appreciation; we ought to be willing to be servants for the
Craft in all things appertaining to the welfare and glory of our
Lodge. Self-interests should be divorced from all our actions. We
have had our day; we have played our part in official position, then
why not let some other · Brother play his part? The Past Masters
of a Lodge should be the reserve, veterans' corps; the Master's counselors, not his dictators. A Past Master should be, by the very
virtue of his title, a better man intellectually and morally. He has
had his school of experience and wide reading that should qualify
him to be a · sage among the Brethren, a teacher among his pupils.
He has had an experience, a course of study, if he has had sufficient
ability, to make him a man of broad mind, altruistic, humble, willing
to assist, to bear burdens and to be a Brother among Brethren.
Official distinction and honors should make a man, more of a man,
not a snob, or a conceited ass, but one to whom service is a
pleasure and duty a reward. It is not necessary for a true Past
Master to air his titles, for he is known by the Brethren, he lives
respected and dies regretted..' "

PAST MASTERS .
As a caption for this topic we are going to reproduce what
Dr. Wm. F. Kuhn, one of the most prominent Masons of Missouri,
said regarding the Past Master:
"What is the status of a Past Master? This question was
asked of one of the old Past Masters for solution. He smilingly
replied as follows: 'Well, he is a member of his Lodge and has
not lost any of his rights and privileges as a Master Mason by
having served as Master of his Lodge. This is glory enough.
" 'The trouble with some Past Masters is that they have been
soaring so high in th~ Masonic imperium for a year or more, that
they do not know how to make ia landing from their official flight.
They have been educated out of their Masonic sphere by office
holding so that they cannot reconcile themselves to the fact that
their crown has passed to another and that their reign is over. It
is hard to come down to hard tack after feeding on official strawberry shortcake. The water in the harbor where the barques of
the Master Mason ride at anchor is too shallow for a big ship.
There is no sadder picture than a puffed up, dropsical Past Master,
dropsical with the conceit of his faded glory; with the asthmatic
wheeze of imaginary slights to his imaginary Past Master's importance. They do not take a tumble to the fact that they are no

63

Mississippi (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee~: Brother West (Grand
Master ·of Indiana) . stresses the benefits that result from social
gatherings of the Brethren, and points to the Past Masters' Association as furnishing occasions for such gatherings. We have often
thought that, in this day of push and rush, we give too little attention to social intercourse. Contact, association and work with one
another furnishes a Mason with his greatest inspiration· to carry
out the purposes of the Institution.
Virginia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: It seems New Jersey has
no law permitting a Lodge to elect as honorary member a member
of another Lodge. Grand Master Vanderlipp recommended "our
Lodges be authorized, by two-thirds favorable secret ballot, to

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

confer the title of Honorary Member upon such Brethren as they
shall select, the distinction to carry neither voice nor vote in the
affairs of the Lodge, nor "subject the Lodge to Grand Lodge or
Masonic Home fees by reason thereof."
Just what sort of honorary membership that will be will no
doubt cause Virginia readers to wonder just a bit. Grand Jurisdictions with the "close communion" membership restrictions seem to
have inuch trouble when anything like this appears necessary. Virginia permits a Lodge to elect an}' Past Master an honorary member, by unanimous ballot of course; but he has all the privileges of
any other member of the Lodge; and, while he is exempt from dues
to the Lodge, Grand Lodge tax or dues is paid on him as long as he'
lives. Lodges know this and when an honorary member is elected
it means they value his membership on the Lodge's rolls. We know
a Virginia Brother who has been honorary member of a Lodge for
a number of years; some years back he sent his check to the Lodge
for any purpose the 'Lodge might choose to put it to; he received
his check back with thanks, and a most. courteous admonition that
the Lodge knew, or thought it did, its full duty respecting his name
on its rolls.
Western Australia (1930):
( Chairman Correspondence Committee): The "Past Master's Degree"-a frequently recurring matter in American Masonry-again
cropped up in .N ebraska. It seems that many of the Lodges are
unable to afford the expense incurred in connection with the ceremony, thereby suffering certain disadvantages in connection with
representation at Grand Lodge Annual Communications. Consequently, the Grand Master expressed himself in favor of making the
degree optional instead of obligatory. "If a Master-elect is not duly
impressed with his duties and responsibilities by the beautiful and
majestic Ritual found 'in our installation service," he said, "the conferring of the Past Master's Degree is time wasted on him." Of
course, a way out of the difficulty should be found in the course
followed in our Empire: With us, the Past Master's Degree has
long fallen into desuetude, and a Past Master is one who has served
his term of office as a Worshipful Master duly installed in the Chair
by the Board of Installed Masters. By virtue of that service, he
becomes a Past Master, and is so recognized. Unfortunately, in the
American branch of the Craft, one not infrequently observes a tendency in the direction of what is fondly believed to be scientific
legalism, but which might be better described as over-regimentation.
Amongst the matters submitted to the Grand Master (Louisiana) was the following, which he answered in the negative: "Has

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

66

a Past Master who h:is taken the degree in a Chapter the right to
sit in a Blue Lodge of Past Masters?" This is one of those instances
where American practice is sometimes found differing from the
British. In Empire Blue Lodges an installed Master, having served
the time for which he was elected and installed, becomes thereby a
Past Master. We recognize "the Degree of an Installed Master,"
and have no place for such a "degree" as that of a Past Master.
PROCEEDINGS
Caesar said that all Gaul was divided into three parts, and the
same statement may ·a pply to the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge.
Under "Interesting" we would place the Message of the Grand
Masters, Grand Orattirs' addresses and miscellaneous matters of a
like character. Perhaps we might also add the printed prayers of
the Grand Chaplain, although in cold type these have produced less
effect than the spoken word. Under "Instructive'', we would, of
course, naturally class the Report of the Chairmen on Correspondence. Under "Superfluous" we would include the roster of members and long detailed. reports of Certified Public Accountants.
However, if ·a Grand Lodge believes that these are of value
to their general membership it, like other matters on which there
is a difference of opinion, is their individual affair and one that
should not be criticised.
Alabama (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Kentucky continues to
publish a list of its entire membership. I have never been able to see
any reason for doing this but if I were a member of the Grand Lodge
· of Kentucky I might be able to do so.
When I face the task of trying to make a two-page report of the
1024 pages of the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Michigan I
desire a cotton compress for the task. The Grand Lodge does not
transact more business than many other Grand Lodges but they talk
about it more, at least they make a record of what they say about it.

,.

Michigan (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It would ill become Michigan to desecrate Kentucky's volume of Proceedings by denominating
it "thumping big;" that, if weighed, it would tip the scales at two
pounds; that it contailis 408 pages of extraneous matter in the form
of a roster of Lodges. It is Kentucky's method to which it is entitled
without adverse criticism from foreign jurisdictions.

67

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New Hampshire (1929):
(Chairman · Correspondence Committee): "Everything· said at this
session (Michigan) is recorded by a stenographer and published. It
gives exceedingly interesting reading-much more so than we find in
the Congressional Record."
The above is rich! Congressional Record, forsooth!

Proceedings under the notice of Brethren have won favorable comment from American reviewers. The Californian reviewer, Brother
Whited, is particularly commendatory.

66

North Dakota (1930):
(Chairman Correspo1ulence Comm.i ttee}: The Grand Master of
West Vriginia believes in boiling down. His address took up only
ten pages of the Proceedings. It could not have been shortened to
save printers' bills, however, for three hundred twenty pages of good
white paper are used to list the membership of the lodges, which
provides a fine "sucker list" for some enterprising mail order house.
We were never able to understand any other excuse for including
same in Proceedings. And yet, we surmise if some Secretary would
furnish a list of the members to some book peddler, he would feel
the heavy hand of discipline ~ery suddenly.
·
South Carolina (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Brother Cart~r (Mississippi) recommends that the Proceedings of Mississippi be abridged.
He says: "Every Mason in Mississippi who carefully ex!1ffiines our
printed Grand Lodge Proceedings must have realized that it · contains many pages that serve no worthwhile.purp<>se by being included
therein." He suggests that a Committee be appointed to study the
matter and determine what may be left out. Looks to us at this distance that no su·c h Committee is needed. The names of the officers
and members of the subordinate Lodges require 557 pages. At $2.70
a page, the amount expended to catalogue these names each year is
over $1500.00. We have never been able · to appreciate the necessity
for publishing s.uch a list.
Virginia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: We believe Utah is the
only Grand Lodge Proceedings, except our own, that carries an
admonition on the front page. Utah has this:
"It is the duty of each Worshipful Master to have the printed
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge read in open Lodge that no · Brother
can plead ignorance of the transactions of Grand Lodge."
Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The methods used by the
Grand Lodge of Western Australia to bring the annual volume of

Wisconsin (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The official stenographer
is still in evidence, but this year Michigan has a new one and so it
only took twenty pages of the Proceedings to get down to business
instead of forty pages as it did last year. When will Grand Lodges
learn that an official stenographer is an expensive luxury, adding'
considerably to the cost of publishing the Proceedings; that it does
not add to the clearness of the report but instead is confusing? If it
is satisfactory to them, however, we ought not to object.

*

*

*

*

A formidable looking volume of over fifteen hundred pages is
presented for review from Texas. On examination it is found that
more than nine hundred of its pages consist of a roster of the membership of its subordinate Lodges. This must be very satisfactory to
the printer but is useless so far as others are concerned, except to
those desiring a large list of names of substantial citizens to whom
advertising matter may be mailed or to send propaganda for other
purposes. To them it is a veritable mine of information furnished
free of cost.
PUBLICITY
Publicity given to Masonic affairs of all kinds has undoubtedly
detracted from the charm that the Organization at one time held
for the uninformed and has materially weakened its standing. It
has also had a tendency to cause the general public to consider
some of our activities, such as Homes and Benevolence, and Public
Ceremonies, the main objects of the Craft. As Will Rogers has
aptly said: "All he knows is just what he reads in the newspapers,"
and this is perhaps true of a large number of the rest of us.
Maine (1931):
(Chairman Correspo11dence Committee) : The following question
was asked the Grand Master of Missouri: "Should a Lodge or group
of Lodges establish a Masonic hour upon a radio broadcasting station?" Answer, "No. This would seem to be in the nature of an
advertisement of Freemasonry." The answer is probably right, yet
what are all public ceremonials, cornerstone dedications, installation
(when public), etc., but inevitably advertisements. Certainly your
correspondent has heard several Masonic addresses over the air from

69

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

N. B. C. Studios, in which Grand Masters have spoken with other
Grand Officers in attendance, and the official announcer has given
graphic descriptions of public ceremonials. Radio is something to be
reckoned with and why demur, if discreetly conducted, any more than
we do when we see glaring press headlines of Masonic events, often
the photographic cuts of cornerstone and dedication ceremonials?

pation by individuals in the ritual of our several Degrees, more particularly in the ritual of the Third Degree. I am constrained, therefore,
in the most emphatic manner possible, to remind the Brethren of
their obligation to preserve the Andent Law of our Craft and to
refrain from the publication, either in Lodge notices or elsewhere, of
any matter by which the nature of our esoteric ritual or of. any part
thereof may in any manner become public.
Now, t herefore, I, Charles H. Johnson, Grand. Master of Masons
in the State of New York, do hereby order and direct that the printing or publication in any form, either by use of words or symbols or
by photographic reproductions, of information calculated to reveal
the nature of the participation by any person or persons in any part
or portion of the ritual of any of the D egrees of Freemasonry is
unlawful and may not in any circumstances be permitted, provided,
however, that it i's not unlawful to print the names of the officers
or temporary officers of the• Lodge, nor 'shall this edict operate to
forbid the publication of the name of .the person who may be designated to deliver the Lecture in the Third Degree.
Let this edict be read in each Lodge throughout the State, at the
fi~st meeting after its receipt and entered in full upon its records.
I am glad to report that the jurisdiction, with its usual loyalty
and confidence in the Grand Master's judgment, received this edict ·
with favor and its request has been uniformly complied with. I trust
it will meet with the approval of Grand Lodge.

68

Michigan (1930):
(Grand Master}: Loyalty to the lodge can never be encouraged
by an appeal to attend a ball game because it is to be known as
"Masonic Day." The inception of the idea itself is one of materialism
-to collect the admission of the Masons who attend in the guise of
supposed loyalty to the Craft.
Entertainment by Lodges of so-called distinguished guests whose
only claim to being distinguished is a vast amount of publicity obtained generally in a way wbich makes no real contribution to the
needs of humanity is to be condemned.
In other words, there is such a thing as "good taste" in Masonry,
that which is apropos. Lodges and their officers should consider this
when they arrange for their publicity and their programs.
The word "publish" clearly means a publication to the profane
through Lodge magazines, newspapers and ot.her printed material not
sent out in the usual course of first class mail.
It is obvious that in the earlier days of Masonry there was no
necessity because the Lodges were small and the petitioners well
known in the community, and, in addition to that fact, the first class
mail service was not what it is today. With the large membership in
many of the Lodges of the · State, where the personal contacts are
not possible between the members and betwe~n the officers and members, a form of notice to them of the petitioner or candidate for the
degree would not be improper if such notices were sent out to the
members under first class mail, postage pre·paid, addressed to the
last known address of the member with a return address to the constituent body on the outside of the envelop:e. The benefits of this
practice to the constituent bodies would clearly outweigh any disadvantages.
New York (1931):
(Grand Master): It has come to my attention that there is a
growing tendency through the medium of Lodge Notices and of
Masonic news published in newspapers and · periodicals through the
jurisdiction, to depart from a fundamental principle of our Fraternity
and to disseminate news or information as to the nature of the partici-

'ii

North Carolina (1931):
(Chairnian Correspondence Committee): There is a law in Massachusetts that the names of candidates must be on notices of meetings,
if any, or it is illegal to ballot on them. We in North Carolina hold
that it is improper to put the name of a candidate on any written or
printed notice, since this may become public property and we protect
the petitioner until he is elected.
The Grand Master of Minnesota took notice of a political advertisement which appeared in a Masonic publication. The record shows
only that a candidate for office paid for space in a Masonic paper to
tell he was a candidate for office, not stating in its text that he was
a Mason. Is this a Masonic offense? We get many Masonic papers
with such advertisements. Their columns are open to all for this purpose, or to none, we presume. If a candidate does not use them, he
is so straight that he bends backward ; and if he does use them, he
is ~harged with bending toward the crooked. What should be done?
Was the Grand Master right? We do not know; there is vast diversity of practice. Any advertisement making reference to Masonry
is, of course, reprehensible.

71

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Ohio (1931):
(Grand Master): There seems to be a disposition on the part of
some of our members to use the Square and Compasses on the
radiators of their automobiles. While this may not be contrary to the
Code, and no doubt the persons using the emblems are actuated by
the best motives, still it seems to me an unwise use of the Masonic
emblems, for it tends to cheapen the Fraternity in the eyes of the
public, · ar,id I would like very much to see the custom discontinued.

Title
Jurisdiction-Year Page
Annual Oration.....,............................................Philippine Islands(l931) 54
The Corner Stones of Masonry.................... Quebec (1930)
3
Masonry, A Teacher of Man..........•................Texas .(1930)
112
Observations by the Way.............................. Utah (1931)
C.C.R.
The Eternal Truths of Masonry.................. Washington (1930)
407
The Five Points of Fellowship...................... Wisconsin (1931)
156
Facts and Foundations of Freemasonry...... Wisconsin (1931)
179

READING-INTERESTING

RELIEF

The attention of those who are interested, and have acceS6 to the
Proceedings of t~e various Grand Lodges, is called to the following
Orations, Papers and Reports from the Proceedings reviewed. They
are entertaining, worthy of examinatio11 and valuable for reference.

Whether Relief through the medium of Homes or Institutions is
a better method than d :sbursements from a Benevolent Fund dealing
directly with the individual, still continues to be a debatable question.
In a number of cases those operating Homes are facing serious
financial problems. · The difficulty is also increased by the tendency
of subordinate Lodges to pass its responsibility on to the Grand
Lodge for handling. It is easier to "let George do it." Grand Masters
and Trustees of Homes have cited numberless cases where the lack of
. caution in accepting members or making reinstatements have greatly
added to the trouble.

70

Title
Jurisdiction-Year Page
Do We Take Masonry Too Seriously.......... Arizona (1931)
408
The Kingdom and the Craftsmen......'..........Colorado (1930)
72
The Great Lights.............................................. ldaho (1930)
69
Annual Oration .................................................. Illinois (1930)
84
Boosting Chicago........~........•............................ Illinois ( 1930)
3
Around the World............................................ Iowa (1930)
388
Lodge Finances.................................................. Iowa (1930)
195
Masonic Periodicals (List of) ...................... Iowa (1930)
88
Whither Masonry.....................................,........ Iowa (1930)
C.C.R.
Not Quantity but Quality.............................. lowa (1930)
C.C.R.
Annual Oration.................................................. Louisiana (1931)
148
Royal Arch Degree.......................................... Maryland (1930)
460
Human Liberty...................... ~ ......._................... Minnesota (1931)
67
The Middle Chamber....................,............,....Montana (1930)
77
Grand Historian's Report .............................. Montana (1930)
82
Annual Oration.................................................. Mississippi (1931)
87
Annual Oration.•................................................ Maine (1931)
451
The Wail of the Serpent.................................. Maine (1931)
175
Foreword............................................................. Nevada (1930)
C.C.R.
Mormons and Masonry in Nevada.............. Nevada (1930)
35
Freemasonry and the IndividuaL................ Nevada (1931)
75
Esmeralda Lodge No. 6.................................. Nevada (1931)
84
Historical Sketches..................,_....................... N orth Dakota (1930) 168
. The Mastery of Life........................................ N ebraska (1931)
703
15th Century Masons' Statutes ...................... New York (1931)
161
Annual Oration.................................................. Okl~oma (1931)
166
Masonic Charity................................................Oregon (1930)
27

British Columbia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondmce Committee): Our Grand Master's Address is noticed at some length, and reference is made to th~ work
of our Board of Benevolence. It is observed that the Board had
disbursed about $9300 in relief "we judge in. assisting Lodges to care
for dependents instead of assuming the entire burden."
Well, that was the idea, but we regret to say that some of our
Lodges seem to have the impression that the Board of Benevolence
has taken the work of relief off their hands entirely-and they are
quite willing to "let George do it."
We think that there can be no doubt that in the beginning
(i.e., 1717) it was not considered that charity, or relief, was one of
the chief functions of Masonry. Of Masons, probably yes; but it was
several years after the formation of the first Grand Lodge that what
. one may call organized charity made its appearance. In the course
of time, however, the idea of personal charity or relief has gradually
lessened, and it is now a very general feeling that the dispensing of
charity is one of the proper (and perhaps the principal) functions of a
Lodge or a Grand Lodge. There may be good reasons for the change,
but that is not to say that this method of distributing relief has
existed from time immemorial.

72

REPOR'.r ON CORRESPONDENC.tt;

District of Columbia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In compai1y with Ohio,
Kentucky, and West Virginia, Indiana came very near getting tangled
up in a matter that they did well to let alone. They would find little
if any approval of their effort to form an alliance with the War
Department, or any other part of the ·G overnment, from the great
majority of the Grand Jurisdictions of the United States, for any
purpose whatever, whether it be. wartime or peacetime, and the Jurisprudence Committee very properly recommended against it, and was
sustained.
Florida (1931):
(Chairma.11 Corrcsponde11ce Committee): Grand Lodge of Indiana
decided not to become a party to "Masonic Welfare Work in Time of
War," which had been proposed at a previous Annual Comr11unieation, and which was also to include the Grand Lodges of Ohio, Ken.tucky and West Virginia. Experience gained in the World War
taught, it was stated, "that so-called welfare workers, representative
of any particular race or religious faith, proved a burden and an
incumbrance to our fighting men, and tended to create discord, jeal-·
ousy and friction in and out of the army."
Maine (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Washington speaks out rather sharply, but justly, respecting "sons
and daughters who deny their filial duty, o.r who find it more convenient to have their home free of the old folks, should be interviewed
at least and be required to acknowledge their disgrace." It is a com. mon situation in every Grand Jurisdiction, whether operating homes
or otherwise. Only too often our Masonic charity is used as a convenient means of lifting the burden which rightly belongs to sons and
daughters of caring for the dependent old people.
Maryland (1929) :
(Grand Master): It is a peculiar fact1 which has been demonstrated numberless times, that when Brethren are in their prime and
prosperous, the Masonic Fraternity is either forgotten and treated
with indifference and entirely neglected, but let reverses step in, and
all other sources are shut off, you will find that the Lodge is their
first thought and plea for help.
New York (1931):
(Grand Master): I requested from the District Deputies a statement of what during the year has been done for relief in their respec-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

73

tive districts. In response to this request I can now report that for
the first time in a Grand Lodge Session we have a knowledge. of the
extent of Masonry's beneficence. Money spent by Lodges of this
jurisdiction for relief alone, either for its members, for Brethren of
the Craft, for community relief, or for national relief, amounts to the
astonishing sum of $600,000.
To this should be added $2500 sent to Porto Rico to assist in
the care of stricken children, and $2000 sent to San Domingo to
relieve those suffering from the devastation that overwhelmed that
little country. When the President of the United States asked for
aid for our stricken people in the western part of our country, I
passed on the request with little comment to the Lodges. As a result
of the response to this call there has been sent to the headquarters
of the American Red Cross at Washington, from the Freemasons of
New York State, the sum of over $18,000. President John Barton
Payne wrote his heartfelt thanks for what New Y o.rk Masonry had
done, and stated that in the light of this generosity if he were not
already a Mason he would certainly want to be one.
Utah (1930):
(Chainnan Correspondence Committee) : The writer has known of
instances where Secretaries of Boards of Relief in a sister jurisdiction
have advanced funds to individuals or incurred bills of expense for
sickness or funerals, and billed the Lodges afterwards. We have in
mind a case where an unworthy Mason-and at the time under
charges of unmasonic conduct-secured funds from several Boards of
Relief in a neighboring State, the Boards afterward billing the Lodge
for the amounts. The amounts were paid with a courteous suggestion
that Utah Lodges would appreciate a wire sent collect before the
funds were drawn upon by Lodges of other jurisdictions. The Secretary of one of the Boards of Relief sent the Utah Lodge a "hot one"
in reply stating among other things that he didn't need or ask for
any advice as to how to nm that particular Board!
; Washington (1930):
(Chairnum Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Florida discovered that many Lodges were drawing much more from
the Grand Lodge than they paid in as dues. He reported the names
of the Lodges thus seeking to avoid their own responsibilities, and
recommended that Grand Lodge furnish only a part of the relief
needed, and that the local Lodge do its share. This seems right, and
we are glad to have the subject brought up. In fact, as we have
pointed out several times, our obligations are first of all individual,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

74

76

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

and the Lodge should only apply for retie{ after they have exhausted
their own means in an effort to give aid where needed.
Everyone who has had anything to do wi~h mod~rn methods of
doling out charity, must recognize that many mistaken ideas are afl~at
in the minds of the masses. Masonry is so often confounded with
beneficiary societies that some .of those who come into t~e L?dges
expect ro reap special benefits, and when disillusioned, are dissatisfied.
To such we can only say, go somewhere else, we do not need you.
The idea of getting something for a pittance (dues) has captured the
minds of certain men who are too selfish to make the prop~r strugg~e
to do for themselves. They want to plant an anchor to wmclwarcl m
case of trouble, but they are not willing to take out regular insurance.
Under Masonic Charity; Grand Master of Wisconsin cautions the
Lodges which ask the Grand Lodge to pay the funeral expenses, that
it is the function of the Lodge to so arrange their funds as to meet all
such cases. for themselves.
The above ·calls att~ntion to a condition which arises in so many
Lodges, and which seems to arise from a mistaken idea that, .be~ause
the Grand Lodge has taken upon its shoulders the care of md1~ent
and helpless Masons, therefore said Lodges are freed from all obligations to their own members. Such is not the case, but, as we have
pointed out several times, the obligation primarily rests on . the individual members themselves, and then upon the Lodge, and not upon
Grand Lodge. Human nature seems to be the same in all places, a.ncl
under all conditions, and we are too prone to throw the burden of
our ow.n obligations onto the shoulders of others whenever we can.
Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Corre#ondence Committee): 'Brother Hohly (Ohio)
favored every Lodge building up a charity fund of its own. (In Australia we do precisely that, only we call it by the name, less hurtful
to sensitive ears, of Benevolent Fund.) He also favored. Masons
interesting themselves in the welfare and a~vance~ent of. their ~r~th­
ren in securing employment for Masons' children, m. seekmg positions
for Masons' daughters in public schools, and securing work for
Masons' necessitous widows. (All this sounds excellent, and were
human nature less imperfect, much of this could be carried out. ;sut
it does suggest the dangerous possibility of conver,ting Masonry mto
what it never was, nor is today, intended to be-a ~ere bene~t
society. There are plenty of fraternal organizations, which, to their
everlasting credit and honor, specialize in t):lis.)
Grand Lodge of North Carolina appears to have unhappy experiences in connection with its relief fund, a considerable number of

Lodges apparently regarding it as the source of all relief for poor
and distressed Brethren and their dependents, the result being. that
the . Grand Lodge dues paid by a Lodge, in quite a large number of
instances, were significantly disproportionate to the large amount of
relief g~anted to members of that Lodge. Needless to say, steps were ·
taken to remedy this state of affairs. In Australia, following the lead
of the Mother Grand Lodge and her subordinate Lodges, there is not
only a Grand Lodge Fund of Benevolence, but a .similar fund pro- ·
vided in each subordinate Lodge. From the latter, the subordinate
Lodge deals out relief to its own dependents, and if occasion arises
for larger relief, application. is made to Grand Lodge. But in no case
is the relief granted of more than a temporary nature.
Wisconsin (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Freemasonry is not a
charitable .institution, although benevolence is strongly inculcated in
our teachings. But the duty of affording relief when necessary is an
individual duty and not the duty of a Lodge. There is, however, in
these days too great a willingness to pass the buck to the Lodge and
on to the Grand Lodge. This tendency is one of the manners in
which the Institution is being gradually transformed.
RITUAL
There appears to be a tendency to seriously consider the proposition of abridging the Ritual, particularly that part of the Third
Degree which is a mere recapitulation, or reciting parts of the
Monitor which are available in printed form. While constant repetition may make for proficiency, it has no continuous appeal to the
average member. The Ritual is the development of early years, as
affected by succeeding times and conditions and the views of the
compilers. There is nothing in it that can be considered as sacred,
or "Land Marks" that cannot be changed. We believe that the
time is not far distant when the advisability of some abridgement
will become a live issue.
·
Illinois (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : As is most natural, everybody seems to be offering remedies for the present Masonic decline.
Masons who are really interested in the Fraternity are trying to
find out why Lodges are not better attended. The thought has
been advanced in several quarters that perhaps we are ·wearing
our members out with too much R itual. It has been sugg~sted
that the charges at the close of degre es are long, · tiresome,

76

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

boresome dissertations, and that these might with propriety be
reduced and condensed. It should not be forgotten that Masonry
during the last 40 or SO years has been largely in control of the
Ritualists. Grand .Officers in many instances have been recruited
from the ranks of Grand Lecturers. · Inasmuch as the Ritual was
the one thing in the Fraternity which appealed to them they naturally gave most attention to . Ritualistic promotion. The result
has been to some extent a multiplication of lectures and charges,
until as a matter of fact some of these have been made really burdensome. In Illinois there has been for some time a feeling that
the historical account bf the third degree might with propriety be
abridged and that several long explanations and charges . connected
with that degree might with safety be condensed. The third degree,
at the best, is a long degree. When it is conferred following a business session it means that the Lodge will not close until somewhere
around 11 :00 o!clock. Grand Secretary Hamilton of Massachusetts
says that his Grand Lodge does . not insist upon the charges being
given; that latitude is being .g iven to the Master in this matter. It
should not be forgotten that Ritual is purely the result of individual
effort. T he first Masonic Ritual was very simple. During the past
200 years it has. been constantly added to by Ritualistic builders until
we have it today in its various complexity and ramification. Church
services which extend over an hour or an hour and a quarter bring
a big complaint from· the pews; and if a sermon extends over 30
minutes objection is immediately raised that it is too long. If this
condition prevails in the churches, what must be the feeling in a
Masonic Lodge where a ceremonial is dragged out over two and
~)Ile-half hours? There is no question but that the charges appended
to the third degree, especially in Illinois, are too long. All of them
~re more or less a repetition of things. that have .g one .before, and,
while they are very inspiring and contain excellent admonition, yet
it is believed th.a t a re~! service could be rendered to the Craft by
their being shortened.''
0

Iowa (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): According to our view of
the subject, there are two essential things in Masonry, each of equal
importance with the other, and the first is to know the Ritual accurately and · perfei:tly, and ..the second is to come to have a clear con;
ception of its meaning.
Mexico (1930):
.(Chairt¥an Correspo11dence .Comtnittee): Under Opening and Closjng.. Lodges· in the .First a nd Second J)egr:ees; we note the Grand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

77

Master re~ommends th;t part of these ceremonies be dis~ensed with.
We agree with the suggestion. One of the real causes for refraining
from attendance at the·-Lodges is the monotonous, and at times, tiresome · repetition of opening and closing ceremonies. No matter how
beautiful and instructive a constant repetition of the same matter
year in and year out will bore the most zealous member.
Montana (1930):
(Chairma11 Correspqndmce Committee): In Texas it was also
held that under their methods, the lambskin should be presented to
the candidate after or when the candidate r eceives the Third Degree;
their Committee on Work refused to adopt the lecture in the E. A.
Degree of presentation of the apron.
Thinking this over, we see the good sense of such views. The
candidate may be a Mason, as an E. A., but his complete standing
as such does not take place until after he becomes a M. M.
There are too many Entered Apprentices in possession of lambskin aprons who .never complete their membership and it is somewhat
· a travesty to have them display a lambskin apron, the badge of a
Mason.
Nevada (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Some ritualists would doll
up in all kinds of funny clothes if they could, and think they were
making it more effective for the candidates. I don't believe the
builders of Solomon's Temple dressed up in lace and embroidered
··s kirts and flowered robes to handle the rocks and timbers, any more
than th~ men work;ing on our steam shovels wear full dress.

New York (1931):
(Grand Master) : This reference to Obligation leads me to a subject that fo r several years has interested many men and jurisdictions.
I .refer to the penalties of the Obligation. Members and initiates alike
know that these penalties are not to be taken literally, and yet they
follow Obligations that are to be taken literally. It is not sufficient
answer to say that the Obligation is literal and the penalty symbolical.
Such a reply weakens the whole procedure. Without in any wise
eliminating the ancient penalty I would re,spectfully recommend that
consideration be given to such a change as, by t he introduction of a
few words, would indicate that the penalty is not to be taken as literal
and that the · binding factor is in another part of the recital by the
candidate. As this is a matter of considerable importance and requires

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

careful study, I would suggest that the subject be referred to an
existing or new Committee, to make a recommendation at the next ·
Session of Grand Lodge.

nothing should interfere with the regular meetings of the Lodge.
Those meetings should be given to business, social culture and
Masonic study. The conferring of degrees should be assigned to
special meetings for that purpose. It might be better, also, and far
more impressive, to group a number of newly-made Masons at intervals for the purpose of instructing them in the symbolisms and meaning of the ceremonies through which they passed. We believe that
such a special meeting would draw many who would not otherwise
remain · through a late hour to hear such instruction. The time element would also be solved and there would be no hurry in the instruction given. The Master could thus make a real feature of such
instruction. We followed such a course when we were Master. of a
Lodge and we have known times when nearly a hundred additional
chairs had to be brought up from the banquet room to seat the
Brethren who came to hear.

78

South Carolina (1931):
(Chafrman Correspondence Committee) : The following from a
report of Grand Lecturer Barnett E. Marks (Arizona) furnishes food
for thought to those who are interested in the solution of the problem
of Lodge attendance:
"May I suggest for consideration the plan of delivering the
Master's First and Third ·Degree lectures to the candidates only once
in a three or four months' period in the Lodge, or to the candidates
privately. This will shorten the work in the Lodge room on these
occasions, leaving more time for social and fraternal contacts and
for Masonic education, which are, after all, the most valuable fe;tures
of Masonic membership . Every one attending these Degrees will
recall how the Brethren leave the Lodge room just before the Master
begins on thes.e lectures. This disheartens the Master, and the Brethren lose, too, for they have left before any opportunity to reach them
with a message has been given. And, still, they cannot be greatly ·
·blamed, for · they have heard these lectures many times before. They
come for social enjoyment, and for Masonic enlightenment. I believe
there is merit in this idea, which was developed in a conversation on
this subject with one of the high officers of this Grand Lodge.
"Those of us who love Masonry, and honor and respect the Institution, must be willing to recognize changed conditions, and prepare
to meet them. Society and civilization today is not what it was a
hundred years ago, or even fifty years ago, or even twenty-five years
ago. I am a firm believer, not only in the beauty and strength of
Masonry, but in its utility and its ability to meet the changed conditions, and serve mankind today as it has in ages past. In this respect
I liken it to the Common Law, rooted as it is in ancient civiliz.a tion
but still virile and flexible and serves mankind well today, because
those who administer it are shaping it to that end."
We believe that there is merit in the suggestion contained in the
above paragraph. We have long since been convinced that the parrotlike repetition of the lectures was enough to drive men away from
the Lodge. We have long contended that Masonry is something
more than conferring Degrees on candidates. The making of a new
Mason is incidental to the life and working of the Lodge. It is ·not
the primary object of Masonry. A Master of exceptional ability may
be able to so give· the lectures as to command an interested audience
at any time, but such men are rare. Therefore, it is better that

79

Utah (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : We would like to know
what the speaker meant by the words: "Through the centuries
~asonic Ritual has been affectionately preserved," and in what
immediately follows he intimates that all that was done by J'reston
and Webb was really fixing here and there in the walls of the old
structure a few flowers! Did he have in mind here the old Constitutions and Charges?
Washington (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): One of the interesting
questions discussed (Victoria Grand Lodge) was the method of
wearing the apron. The cardinal principle was laid down that it
should be worn so as to be visible, but not necessarily outside the
coat. This last qualification was hailed with enthusiasm, for many
Brethren seemed to .b e deterred from attendance at Lodge meetings
where they were forced to wear their aprons outside of the coat.
Their reason seems to have been because to wear the apron out~ide
the coat at all · times made them look ridiculous because of the
strings making sad bulges in the sides and back, which were neither
dignified nor seemly.
We are glad to see thal some latitude was allowed in the wearing
of the apron, and the only restriction was that it must be worn so as
to be ·seen.
Western Australia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): From a statement in the
Grand Secretary's report, it appears that a custom obtains to a slowly

80

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

increasing extent of presenting a newly-rai~~d Brother with both
apron and Ritual. "From every point of view it is a desirable practice," says Brother Twining Hart. "It supplies every new member
with his essential Masonic clothing, and it places in his hands the
means of becoming closely familiar with much of our admirable
work." Possibly, but has not the "new member" a sufficient sense of
the value of the rights and privileges of Ma-sonry to cause him to
acquire these for himself at his own charges? This writer has considerable knowledge of the three great Constitutions, English, Irish and
Scottish, as well as of the Australian Constitutions, and has never
found the Brethren in any of them unwilling to provide these necessary articles for themselves. Don't let us cheapen Masonry.
Brother Fly (Texas) deals generously with our 1928 volum~.
Here is a brief ;quotation which will convey news to my West Australian Brethren. Brother Fly says that I am right; "We have but
the one simple white apron . ·. . 'Embellished' aprons may be presented at will, but never worn unl~s in defiance of Masonic law and
custom." One would like to know exactly what that "Masonic law
and custom" is. If the Operative law and c_ustom are meant, the
aprons were not of lambskin. If Symbolic law and custom are intended, there have been too many changes. since 1717 for us . to
"indulge custom with custom lest custom should weep," as they say
in the Isle of Man. Masonic law, in America as well as in our Empire,
permits "embellished" aprons to be worn by . Grand Lodge, while
British Empire Masons, above those of the First Degree, by the laws
which have their fountain head in the Symbolic Mother Grand Lodge
of the world, are especially enjoined to wear the "embellished" apron.
SUSPENSIONS
Generally speaking there are as many remedies suggested for
the handling of this question as there are solutions for improving
the present economic condition, both National and International.
We believe, however, that the cause for suspensions can be directly ·
traceable to the initial motive and financial standing of the petitioner. Too often the tendency is to resolve every question in favor
of the Individual, rather than the Lodge.
Some method should be found which will cause men to prize
and want to retain membership. There is ample provision for taking
care of a member who is temporarily and financially unable to pay
his dues. Those who care nothing about the Institution as evidenced
by asking for a dimit or allowing themselves to be suspended for
non-payment of dues, are perhaps better out than in.

REPORT ON CORR!;;SPONDENCE

SI

Louisiana (1931):
{C/ia.irman Correspo11dence Committee): Masonry throughout
America and in fact, largely throughout the world, is struggling to
check the falling off in membership and is facing the serious problem
of meeting its obligations and maintaining its institutions in the fac e
of a diminishing revenue. Masonic Homes, educational foundations,
funds created for charity and benevolence, are all suffering from the
almost world-wide financial stagnation which creates a greater
demand for these institutions while at the same time it diminishes
the support by which they may he maintained.
Manitoba (1930) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Committee on Conditions of Freemasonry, speaking of suspensions for N. P. D., asks
this vital question, " When these men were admitted to the portals of
Masonry would it not have been easy to ascertain their financial
resources and liabilities in the ligh t of their duty to their fam ilies
and the commercial world ?" A leading query which ought to actuate
every Lodge and especially the Committee of Investigation.
New Hampshire (1931):
(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): We find the Grand Master (Texas) advocating and urging the adoption of legislation to the
effect that when one has been suspended for non-payment of dues,
remaining such for two years or more, he may not be reinstated
except through a unanimous vote of the Lodge. We have advocated
and still believe in a law that is even more drasti'c than the above.
We would cut out the two years and require that the ballot not only
be unanimous but that it be secret also. That would make suspension
a real and serious matter. There is no injustice in making an application for membership take the same course that was originally taken
to gain membership. We believe that such a law, when enacted and
understood, would have the tendency to lessen the number of suspensions, also lessen the number of applications for Masonic relief.
New York (1931):
(Grand Master) : The accepted diagnosis of membership losses
finds the cause of our present situation in .t he financial situation. This
may be in part true, but it may be worth while to inquire whether
other factors may not enter into the Masonic demise of our members.
Post mortems are sometimes .helpful in ascertaining the cause of
death, and a post mortem might indicate that some of our members
died from neglect. Too often it might be foun d that noth ing during
their Masonic career had been done to strengthen or nourish them

83

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masonically. Before placing the entire blame upon the financial
depression it might be well to ascertain whether the Lodge itself is
not at fault in failing to provide that Masonic education which would
keep alive the in.t erest that once animated these, our Masonically
departed Brethren. With the absence of full trestleboards, each
Master is now presented with an opportunity to utilize Lodge evenings for Masonic and social work. Never should he lose sight of the
fact that the chief purpose of the organization is not merely to get
more men into . Masonry, but rather to get more Masonry into men.

subscriber" idea that has been adopted by the jurisdictions in the
British Isles which we dare to call our Mother Grand Lodges?
Observations of the working of both systems over a period of some
extended years gives one more arguments in favor of the English
system. I hope some research worker will make an extended study
of this matter. Our Constitution says that "No member shall be
expelled for non-payment of dues," and yet makes another penalty
very little different to fit the crime. We have heard many pronouncements as to the "Advisability of getting rid of the members who do
· not pay dues." I have never been able to bring inyself to see that
point. I suppose it is my lack of contact with the class of persons
they have in mind. Many of our most active Brethren who are very
profoundly interested in the welfare of the Fraternity consider the
problem of not paying dues one of the burning issues of the period.
Many Brethren are actively e.ngaged in finding a solution to the
problem.

82

Nova Scotia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Referring to "Demits and
Suspensions," the Grand Master (Canada) says that all the advice
and admonition he wishes to give· may be condensed in one brief
sentence "That our losses come from the wholly inadequate attention
that is given in keeping our membership interested in Freemasonry."
How true these words, and how applicable to so many Grand Jurisdictions. And he strongly urges that more time should be gi:ven to
the making of Masons than the securing of members. Again, how
true but so frequently overlooked. Great stress is laid, and properly
laid, upon the increasing need of Masonic Education.
Philippine Islands (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In the American Grand
Lodges the subject of non-payment of dues, and the consequent
suspension for non-payment of dues, is a problem. In the English,
Irish and Scotch Constitutions this does not exist. One English
writer said "In the North American Republic the Masons make it
a Masonic crime punishable by suspension for failure to subscribe
regularly, and in Southern Europe they punish with the same
penalty the non-attendance at meetings, all such innovations can
only be harmful to our so-called .universal Fraternity. The fact is
Masons copy the rules of clubs, or as it was said 'the Church takes
on the practices of the pagan worshipers of idols in every mission
station to draw the peoples,' and the new locality perhaps compels
the Lodge Masters to adopt new methods absorbed from participation
in other organizations of men, but never like Masonry, which is a
Fraternity and not a society. Societies are born and die but Masonry
lives on because it is a Fraternity. If it was a society, or club, it
would have disappeared like all other human societies and been forgotten. For this reason I caution against these innovations in the
body of Masonry." I •quote this as a thought-producing theme. Is
s_u spension for non-payment of dues an innovation, or did it exist several hundred years ago and was replaced by the far better "non-

Texas (1929):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The . Grand Master gave
considerable thought to the causes and remedies for the unusually
large "number of suspensions for non-payment of dues. He se.nt out
·a questionnaire to all the Lodges and from the answers concluded
that such suspensions fall into two classes, 1st, indifference and lack
of interest, and 2nd, financial difficulties. As to the first class he
concluded that "the men who join for some special reason and never
did become Masons, of course, are a detriment to the Or<ler and the
sooner they get out, the better it will be for alt concerned."
Utah (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master Seipp
pointed out another fact which is by no means peculiar to Maryland.
He said it had b!!en demonstrated numberless times that when
Brethren were in their prime and prosperous Masonry was either .
forgotten or treated with indifference, but when reverses came they at
once turn to the Lodge with a plea for help.
·.Apparently Maryland has a law which requires suspension of
members who are delinquent for two years' dues. For the first time
in the history of the Fraternity the Grand Master said no one had
been reported owing over two years' dues, although to dear the books
it had been necessary to suspe.nd 370 members. This the Grand Master counted as a real benefit to Masonry. Said he, "A tree that will
not bear fruit should be cut down and cast into the fire, and further
, that ~embers who are being carried on our books as drones are of

. 84

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

no benefit to us ~or . to themselv~s." In . closing his rem~rk~ on this
subject the Grand Master quoted: "An oft repeated slogan: 'Our goal
.should ?e more Masonry in men and not more men in Masonry.'"
Victoria (1930):

(Grand Master): We are now passing through times of considerable financial stress, and in the ·parts of the State most affected
there may be Brethren who, through no fault of their own, are unable
to meet their financial obligations to their Lodge. I wish to recommend to Worshipful Masters and Brethren that they should give
special consideration to such Brethren. The Lodge has these matters
in its own hands, and sympathetic treatment, when approved by the
Lodge, would surely be greatly appreciated by any member in temporary poor circumstances. For, remember, Brethren, when a man
is worried and depressed, he needs the friendly handshake and the
sympathetic society of his Brethren in the Lodge far more than when
he is happy and in affluence.
W ashingt~n (1930):

.
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): . It would appear from a
.case presented, that when a Brother is excluded from his Lodge for
non-payment of dues and seeks reinstatement several years after. ward, that they demand that he pay dues for the years that he
was e~cluded from his Lodge. This seems a little out of place to us,
for .s aid Brother had no privileges in his Lodge during his exclusion,
but nevertheless is charged for . said privileges, which he never had,
whenever he asks to be reinstated. This seems like a fine being
~~~os~d for inability t? pay. To our way of thinking, we pay an
'.mt.1ation fee for becommg a member of the Masonic Fraternity, and
mc1dentally Pai dues to a certain Lodge for the privileges of membership in it.
If those dues are .n ot paid it is but right to exclude such member
from . the privileges of the Lodge, but to afterward mulct him for
somet~ing :Which he n~ve~ received •. does not ·seem to us right. However, tn this commercial age; we all seem to be after the almighty
dollar, ·and .the Lodges have caught the spirit of the times and take
advantage Of a Brother's lapse, in what might be called inability, to
fine him.

Western Australia (1930):

. (Chairman Correspondence Committee): Speaking generally, the
,number of Masons throughout the world continues to increase, despite
the fact that Masonic ingenuity has not yet succeeded in ridding th~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

85

Craft of its ungainly bug-bear, a heavy suspension list owing to nonpayment of dues. Various remedies for the evil continue to be suggested, and some of them are on trial, but the measure of success
obtained is negligible, compared with the appalling number of
Brethren who cease to enjoy the honorable title, "Masons in good
standing.'' A painful feature of this state of affairs is that these
Brethren are mostly men who have professed the same beliefs, knelt
at the same altar, and taken the same vows as their more stableintentioned fellows, received the same rights and privileges, and
become members of the world's greatest brotherhood. One is loath
to believe that their disregard for all these is wholly and solely their
own fault. Blame must attach in other quarters, and amongst those
who care there is a feeling that Masonic leaders should seriously take
this drift into consideration, and endeavor to devise some means of
remedying the evil.
THIRD DEGREE LECTURE
The requirement that a newly raised Member should become
proficient in some sort of a lecture of the Third Degree before he
can be admitted · to all the benefits and privileges of Masonry has
produced two different schools of thought. Generally speaking, we
believe that it has not been successful and some Jurisdictions after
a trial of it have repealed the regulation.
The coaching lectures are intended to provide one with the
means to prove himself a Member when visiting another Lodge
or Jurisdictiop. We believe that they now contain a lot of questions which could be eliminated. They are more theoretical than
practical, and the average Mason cannot learn from his teacher,
(and in some cases only after a great deal of study) just exactly
to wh.a t the particular question has reference or means. These ques~
tions should be explained or handled through the Masonic Educational ' Committee, or reference to standard authorities. A short
and specific catechism could be devised which the average Member
could and would learn for use when needed, without being made
obligatory. The present coaching Lectures could be modified so
as to remove the fear they inspire in the mind of the average man
both before and after committing them to memory. While these
are learned in the initial instance, we know of a number of cases
where . a Brother will not visit another · Lodge because he fears the
embarrassment of not being able to answer questions that naturally
are of no practical use when being examined and therefore forgotten.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

87

Canada (1930):

(Chairman CorrPsPondence Committee): We agree with the California topical Reviewer:
· The popular idea that a man to become a Mason must commit
to memory a great deal of Ritual has prevented many desirable men
fr?m soliciting the privilege of Masonry, even though they had conceived a favorable idea of it. So!lle who were once proficient in these
coaching lectures have forgotten them. They hesitate to visit another Lodge, even in their own or some other Jurisdiction.
Illinois (1930) :

(Chairman Corresp011dence Committee): The matter of requiring
proficiency in the matter of the Master Mason Degree was laid over
one year. It is too bad that every time somebody wants to do something for Masonry, about the only thing that he can hit upon is
the memorization of some more Ritual. If there is anybody who
wants to kill Masonry all that is necessary to do is just to increase
the memory qualifications.
Illinois (1931): ·

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Every Grand Lodge
should make it obligatory for every newly raised Master Mason to
me'!1orize :he five points and ·to recite them in open Lodge before
he is permitted to be acclaimed a member entitled to all the rights
and privileges of the society.
Mississippi (1931):

. (Chairman Correspondeiice Committee): From the above decision
it is evident that in Iowa, as in a few other Grand Jurisdictions a
Brother is not ~ntitled to the rights and privileges of Masonry u~til
he stands a satisfactory examination on the Third Degree. We are
wondering, after a Brother has been raised from a deal level to a
living perpendicular, and has been ii:tvested with the secrets of a
Master Mason, and who has received the final charge as such how
can he be informed that he is not entitled . to all of the right~ and
benefits that the degree confers.
North Carolina (1930):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Somehow we have always
felt. that there ought to be some sort of test of proficiency in the
Third Degree, but we have felt that it ought to be one of something higher than mere rote memory in the requirement of ThirdDegree proficiency. Rote memory is practically universally valuable

at certain ages in life ; there are fairly large numbers who can maste.r
memorized material at later periods; but there are some who find 1t
practically impossible to perform such feats as are required of them,
but yet make good Masons. We would adhere to the work required in the first two degrees, but give to the candidate some worthwhile material to read on the philosophy of Masonry, the symbolism
of Masonry and the history of Masonry, upon which his examination for proficiency in the Master Mason's Degree would be based.
Does not this sit better upon the concept of a Master Mason's status
than merely learning to recite by rote the answers which are also
asked by rote? And by the way, what about pulling out some of
the blemishes upon the degree which the passage of time has dragged
in by their tails, so to speak; as, for instance, the barbarous explanation of the Virgin weeping over the Broken Column which
we hear in the Third Degree ? Let's all read Street, Pound, and
others, and reatTy enjoy Masonry; in a real Master Mason's way
learn some · Masonry!
Vermont (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master (Ohio)
recommended that the examination of a novice on the three degrees
include also questions to be answered regarding the by-laws and
rules, the causes of suspension and expulsion, when and why dues
are to be paid, and under what conditions he would be expelled or
suspended for neglect of the rules. This kind of Masonic education
we whole-heartedly approve.
Western Australia (1930):
(Chairnwn Correspondence Committee) : Grand Master of Arkansas
had many recommendations, some of which were heeded, while as
to the fate of others there is no word. Among the latter was a
curious one that Lodges at each of their regular meetings should
"repeat the Master obligation"-presumably the Ob. of the Third
Degree--"and comment thereon, thus keeping it fresh in their
memory." Surely, the members who do observe the duty of regular
attendance upon Lodge, hear that obligation often enough. As for
those who don't attend, all the repetition in the world by those who
do could not refresh their memories.
Wisconsin (1931):
(Committee 011 Jurisprudence) : Your Committee to whom was
referred the resolution requesti ng the Grand Lodge to enact le~is­
lation requiring newly-raised Master Masons to pass an examination
in the lecture of that degree, beg leave to report that they have
had correspondence with the other 48 Grand Jurisdictions in the
United .States .and find that 25 of them have a law or edict re-

SS

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

quiring posting. in the lectures of the Master Mason Degree, and
those having such regulation, with one or two exceptions, claim
that it works out very satisfactorily. In. those few exceptions they
claim that the resolution has no teeth in it, provides no penalty and
is, therefore, not workable.
A number of the Jurisdictions which do not have this requirement strongly urge posting on the Third. Degree, and it is the conclusion of the Committee that the best i_nterest of the Craft in this
Jurisdiction would be promoted by the. adoption of such a plan by
this Grand Lodge.
0

VISITING

-

The question of the Lodge of a foreign Jurisdiction visiting
another State and conferring the degree according tp its own Ritual,
has been commented on and criticised in a number of Jurisdictions.
It appears to us that such a visitation .i s not only instructive but
entertaining and can produce no harmful results. It gives members
of one Jurisdiction an opportunity to witness the Ritual of another,
which they undoubtedly would never have an opportunity to observe.
Visitations from Lodges of Arizona and Nevada to the Jurisdiction
of California and vice versa do not appear to have produced any
disastrous results, in fact quite the contrary.
Connecticut (1931):
(Cltairma11 Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master (New
Hampshire) reports two cases where he·. had secured permission to
"invade" neighboring Grand Jurisdictions for purpose of conducting
funerals. Why this useless red tape? Masonic funeral customs are
general, and we cannot conceive of a Lodge or Grand Lodge which
would stand on ceremony. At any rate, were we a W. M., we
should waste no precious time in conferring but go ahead .on all
sixteen cylinders.
District of Columbia (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee)°: The Jurisprudence Committee did not approve of inter-jurisdictional visits for the purpose of
conferring Degrees, fearing dangerous possibilities. This writer can
see no harm in such inter-jurisdictional visits, providing the visiting
Lodge takes its own candidate and confers the Degree according to
the Ritual of its own jurisdiction. The Committee did not approve
of shortening the statutory time between Degrees save for good and
sufficient reasons, believing that there were few occasions where haste
was necessary in this respect, which view ·of the matter, in the opinion
of this writer, is sound.

•

89

Illinois (1930):
(Grand Master): Our law provides that no other ritua l be used
in .this State but that which has been adopted by our Grand Lodge.
Believing that it was wrong to have an Illinios petitioner as the
object of an evening's entertainment, on whom a form and ceremony
would be used which he perhaps would never experience again, I
have requested all Lodges entertaining a Lodge from a foreign jurisdiction to see to it that they have their own candidate accompany
them. I entertain the idea· that Illinois Lodges could not possibly
have any interest in the work as put on by other jurisdictions other
than from an educational point of view. Such educational value is
partly lost if the work is done on an actual Illinois candidate as it
would then be impossible to explain the work, or for the members of
the Lodges to ask questions about it.
Nevada (1931):
(Grand Master): I accepted the invitation of Loyalton Lodge,
No. 359, of Loyalton, California, to install the officers of that Lodge,
they having secured official consent through their Grand Secretary.
A wonderful banquet was served to a large number and interesting
talks were made; a true fraternal fellowship prevailed. Incidentally I
was the second Grand Master who had ever visited that Lodge, Grand
Master C. M. Wollenberg having paid a visit a month prior to that
time.
Washington (1930):
(Chairnum Corresp01uie11ce Committee): The Grand Master of
Maine speaks of a pilgrimage of the offi.cers of a Maine Lodge to
Brooklyn, New York, where they conferred the Master's Degree
upon one of their own candidates for the edification of the New York
Brethren. Later in the .P roceedings we note that the Committee to
which this was referred, did not exactly approve of the conferring
Degrees of Masonry outside of the State of Maine by Lodges of that
Grand Jurisdiction.
We also feel that there are many points of law which render
such action doubtful. It might be all right for the officers from one
Grand Jurisdiction to visit' another Grand Jurisdiction and there to
exemplify their ceremonies,· but we would hesitate to approve of the
actual conferring of a Degree on any one outside of the actual territory occupied by the Lodge itself. The question arises, and will not
down, as to the legality of a Degree conferred under such circumstances. We do not mention this as a criticism, but merely to call
attention of the Brethren of Washington to the difficulties that are
raised by such a performance.

90

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

•
BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS
·
Without comment we submit the excerpts from the Reports .of
the respective Jurisdictions reviewed so that the reader may see how
the· Grand Lodge and its Officers are viewed both at home and
abroad:
Eightieth Annual Communication, Lo6 Angeles, October 8 to 11,
1929. Gustav A. Hutaff, Grand Master.
Alabama:
As a Reviewer I find the task of reviewing the proceedings of
the Grand Lodge of California one of my hardest tasks. They work
in such a masterly way and record so many interesting events that
it is almost impossible to make the review short enough · to fit the
limitation of space that I am allowed.
* * * The Grand Master's address shows that he has been very
busy in the service of the Craft during the year.
A great deal of space in the Proceedings is given to the Reports
of the work done in the Masonic homes. It shows a .g reat deal of
work carried on in a first-class manner. The homes seem dear to
the hearts of the Masons in California.
A fine relief work is carried on by the California Masons and I
find that the life member of Scottish Lodges is giving trouble as he
is in other parts of the world.
The income of the Grand Lodge of California is large and they
are able to make generous appropriations.
The Report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondenc.e is
very· best dreviews
wn'rt en by Jesse M · Whited and is one of the
•
· k
offered to the Masonic world. He wri.tes a top1ca 1 review an ma. es
worth-while comment under each one of the sub-head~. I would like
to reproduce all his comments, but lack of space forbids.
His extracts under each heading are well chosen and I rec?mmend his report to the Masons of Alabama as being helpful reading.
He makes extracts from Alabama's proceedings u~der the headings of Investigation, Lodge Secretaries and Olla Podnd~. I wonder
if my Alabama Brethren will understand the last heading.
Georgia:
·
.
The ninth report of Grand Correspondent Jesse M. W~1ted
comes again in topical form. It is brilliant as an essay, but o.ne.m~sses
the individual touch and contact with the various Grand Junsd1ct10n~,
as the good topical report is submitted with comment on the multi-

91

tude of subjects upon which our able Brother so interestingly writes.
The report is for our California Bn;thren, as we do not possess the
prerogative to say more than it is t he best topical form of report we
have read.
There are many inspiring and beneficial interpretations of
Brother Whited, which we wish sincerely we had space to reproduce.
Idaho:
Brother Jesse M. Whited, Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, submits his ninth excellent report. His reviews of Proceedings are well arranged under good headings, and with the aid
of his splendid index of subjects and index of Jurisdictions quoted,
officers of Lodges and Masonic students can spend many hours with
profit reading extracts, quotations and comment upon Masonic subjects by leaders of the Order,
Quotations from our Idaho Proceedings are given proper mention under topical headings.
Illinois:
The Grand Lodge wasted no time in getting started. * * * The
observance of Public Schools Week was an event in the year's Masonic activity.

* * * An extended report is made by the board of Managers of
the Masonic Homes. It is very thorough and complete and leaves
but one conclusion and that is that California is handling the Masonic Home matter most admirably and has sufficient funds for all
requirements. The oration was delivered by Tully C. Knoles. It was
a most excellent oration full of thoughtful matter.
Jesse M. Whited writes the Report on Correspondence. In his
preface he discusses some very ~nteresting subjects.
Iowa:
This is one of those attractive volumes which Grand Secretary
John Whicher turns out year after year with an admirable regularity.
The Grand Master writes a splendid annual message.
Dr. Tully C. Knoles delivered a splendid oration, which was received with a standing vote of applause and thanks. His subject is
not. given, .but he said a lot of fine things.
The splendid employment bureaus at Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oakland, Long Beach. and San Diego have been keeping up
their fine record.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Brother Jesse M. Whited writes the Report on Fraternal Cor7
respondence, and as usual it is a good one.
It would be very nice if Brother Whited would add an index
to his report so we could easily and promptly turn to what he has
said about our work in Iowa, upon which, unless our eyes have deceived us, there is neither report nor comment. This means that we
can add neither brickbats no~ bouquets to our store.
(Brother Black's report was received after copy went to the
printers, hence the omission. Our report always carries an index
so if the one received by Iowa was incomplete in this respect "charge
it to the bindery.")

Brother Jesse M. Whited submitted his ninth report as Chairman
of the Committee on Foreign Corresp ondern:;e; His review is grouped
under headings of subjects and comments are made and extracts
taken from the several proceedings, referring to such subjects under
their respective headings. In this way quite a complete and systematic digest is prepared.

92

Kentucky:
The Educational Committee thus concludes its very carefully
produced and exhaustive report.
The Report on Correspon.dence is an able consideration of matters of moment appearing in proceedings in sister Jurisdictions and
is topical instead of a review of each Jurisdiction.
Maryland:
Masonry is in a flourishing. condition in this Grand Jurisdiction
if we may judge from the fact that six dispensations for new Lodges
were issued by Grand Master Gustav A. Hutaff during the year and
from the further fact that the Report of the Grand Secretary shows
an increase in membership of 4,350 over the previous year.
The Annual Oration was made by the Rev: Tully C Knoles and
while we do not like to criticize we feel we must call attention to
one of his statements and challenge and deny another.
Brother Whited again presents an exhaustive topical review of
Freemasonry introduced by an interesting "Foreword."
Minnesota:
The Grand Master gave a comparatively brief address, but ample,
a detail of his official acts, aims and recommendations.
The Grand Orator, Brother Rev. Dr. Tully C. Knoles, President
of the College of the Pacific, delivered the annual oration. * * *
It was a scholarly address exhibiting much thought and research.
In no State of this country is there a ~reater demand for relief
by way of employment for those unemployed, nor a greater ser.vice
rendered in this line of helpfulness than in California.
Observance of Public Schools Week in ·California has been an
extraordinary success. The report of the Committee is extremely interesting and should be read at length.

93

0

Montana:
The volume of proceedings reached us on November 25, 1929;
you are some speedy boy, Brother Whicher.
The "message" of Grand Master Gustav A. Hutaff teems with
reports of much labor.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presented his Ninth Annual Correspondence Report of 125 pages; it is topical in its arrangements and
the views of the Committee head each subject matter and is followed
by quotations from different Jurisdictions and Montana's Grand
Master's address and Correspondence Report are both quoted on
several occasions.
The many subjects discussed are worthy of reproduction and we
selected a number of them which we present herewith.

Nevada:
A very interesting and valuable report is printed by the Committee on the Masonic History of California.
The report of Brother Whited is again in the topical review type.
In it _he considered those topics that are at present receiving the
attention of the Craft throughout the Masonic world. The review
is, as he hoped, a veritable textbook upon the topics chosen. Therefore, we are quoting Brother Whited at length for the information of
our own readers who will not have the opportunity of reading his
complete report.

New Mexicc>:
California Masons stand back of their public schools as Masons
do in no other Jurisdiction in the United States. For ten years
Public Schools Week has been sponsored by the Grand Lodge and
the enthusiasm manifested is constantly growing.
In this .day when we are almost "clubbed" to death the remarks
of Grand Master Gustav A. Hutaff are timely.
Past Grand Master Jesse M. Whited continues to review by
topics rather than by Jurisdiction and does a nice job of it.

\14

REPOR'r ON CORRESPONDENCE

North Dakota:
The address of the Grand Master was without fuss or feathers
and its fifteen pages was a plain, unvarnished tale of a busy and constructive year· of service.
In 1925 California adopted an ambitious educational program
which has brought forth much favorable comment throughout the
country. Apparently the work has been going forward in a way that
should have been highly satisfactory.
Brother Jesse M. Whited uses the topical method of writing
his Correspondence Report. Matters were discussed thoroughly and
commented on intelligently. He has the following to say as to the
proper remedy for misbehavior in other bodies with which this correspondent heartily agrees.
Oregon:
This Grand Lodge has two Masonic Homes, both · efficiently
managed.
Figures give some idea of the concern this Grand L~dge has
for the aged, unemployed" and children of Masons. By t~e1r wo~ks
and by their gifts we shall know as to thei~ t;ue Masom~ chant!.
All we kno~ of the Grand Lodge of California 1s much to its credit:
South Carolina:
A most interesting account is given in the address concerning
the visit of the Grand Master to the Hawaiian Islands.
We heartily commend the Grand Master's position on Lodge
Clubs.
A most comprehensive report, seven pages lo~g, giv~s a. full account of the two Masonic Homes that are bemg mamtamed by
the Grand Lodge.
The annual oration was delivered by Dr. Tully C. Knole~, President of the College of the Pacific. • • • The full te~t is g~ven and
constitutes a valuable contribution to Masonic educational literature.
Brother Knoles strikes at the very heart of the task before us.
Brother Jesse M. Whited continues his fine work i~ the field
of review. He adheres to the topical form, but the best is gl~aned
from every Jurisdiction. He quotes a full paragraph from our introduction to our South Carolina review. It is with pleasure and great
profit that we follow him in the topics set forth.
Texas:
As usual and especially for the past five years, the period covered since the definitely organized work under a Committee for the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

95

purpose, Masonic education claims the place of, possibly, first importance in this progressive Grand Jurisdiction.
This volume, as might be expected of one covering the proceed- .
ings of one of our leading and most progressive Grand Lodges, presents many subjects of interest not here .g iven notice for the reason
that for some unaccountable cause, the bpok only reaches us on the
last days allowed us in which to furnish our copy to the printer.
This we very much regret, since we are debarred the privilege of
even reading the oration delivered .b y our Brother, Rev. Dr. Tully C.
Knoles, President of the College of the Pacific.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is, of course,
from the pen of our accomplished Brother reviewer, Jesse M. Whited,
and comes in his adopted and unusual "topical form." Safe to predict
that it will secure a place to "serve as a textbook" to be used by
and in the ceaseless grind of Brother Whited's Brethren of the Round
Table.
·
Virginia:
The address of the Grand Master covers every phase of Masonic
·
activity in that great Grand Jurisdiction.
Washington:
A pleasing picture of Most Worshipful Brother Gustav A.
Hutaff, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of California, furnishes the
frontispiece of the proceedings. ·
Their Grand Orator, Rev. Dr. Tully C. Knoles, dilated on the
subject of education, and makes especial mention of the efforts
being made by the Masons of California to sell the public school
system to the people themselves. However, good as is his plea, we
have not space enough for us to tell much about it.
The Report on Correspondence is from a Committee of five
members, and is in topical form as usual. They give a foreword in
which they discourse on many problems wl;iich have come before
the Grand Jurisdictions during the year, and it is well arranged and
suggestive. Under the caption, "Masonic Education," fhey quote an
article from the Missouri Free Mason.
We wish to apologize for reproducing here this long quotation,
but the subject is of such vast importance, and the quotation is so apt
just now that we could .not refrain.
We are pleased to see that in the general reviews the Committee
has quoted from the proceedings of Washington some seven times
in backirlg up their dissertation on the various subjects submitted to
the judgment of the California Brethren.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

97

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

!l6

Such discussions have a very valuable part in the . education of
those who will take the time to read them. We wish that e~ery
Mason in the State of Washington could have access to the reviews
of the various proceedings. It would give food for thought for many
days.
West Virginia:
·
Rev. Dr. Tully C. Knoles, President of the College of th~ Pacific,
delivered the Annual Oration, saying "the subject of education from
a Masonic standpoint is enjoined" upon him, and it was, of course,
a very fine address and in keeping with these reports, and from
it we excerpt a few gems.
Grand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker gave a fine report, deserving
of quotation for benefit of all of us, but space precludes.
Brother Jesse M. Whited furnishes his ninth review in his accustomed topical form, very interesting and highly instructive. His positions as to Masonic matters are well defined.
Among his " Bouquets and Brickbats" we find one and one-half
pages given to our Report on Correspondence, an~ beg to .assure
that we enjoy his topical report as it is full of merit and evidently
fruit of earnest care and thorough digestion on his part.
Wyoming:
The Report on Corr.e spondence is by Brother Jesse M. Whited,
who submits his ninth report using the topical method._ The report
contains many interesting items and is well worth reading.
British Columbia:
The Grand Secretary gives list of dispensations granted which
· ludes one "To receive and act upon petition without reference to a
me
·
Committee." This is so unusual and so at variance
':"1"th th e old
charges that we could wish the reasons for it had been given.
While . the Home at Covina has the reputation of being one of
the best conducted in the country we are pleased to see that the
trustees recognize the fact that no institution can take the place of
the home.
An interesting Report on Foreign ·Correspondence was presented by Brother Jesse M. Whited, but as it is prepared on. the
topical plan and consists largely of extracts. fro~ other pro~eedmgs
with a minimum of comment, it does not lend itself 'to review.
Canada:
The topical Correspondence Review by Jesse M. ~hi.ted. in characteristic California style, is aggravating and yet mtngumg. He

present.s his 'ninth report and qucites Brother Block of Iowa as saying that the report "is destined to serve as a post-graduate course
in the school of Masonry." He says he refers to those topics at
present receiving the attention of the Craft and others, that, like the
poor will be always with us.
There is a whole lot of meat in his concluding extract:
"A wise borrower hath more wisdom than a poor composer, and
whosoever has not made this discovery is not wise."
Mexico (York) :
An excellent picture of the M:.W:.Grand Master Brother Gustav A. Hutaff adorns the proceedings-the sixty-second Grand Master-born in America, a most successful business man, banker and
best of all a real Master of Masons.
We will ask our members to read the Grand Orator's address;
the proceedings are to be found in the Grand Secretary's files. We
approve the practical statements-a deviation from the usual orations
-which .d ilate on the philosophy of Freemasonry, but give little of
practical utility.
We call special attention to the Report of Committee on Public
Schools Week.
Under Olla Podrida of the Grand Reviewer's quotations and
remarks we note he states: "Under this topic we have endeavored
to collect the activities of the various Grand Lodges. Unfortunately
we are unable to review proceedings published in a foreign language.
As nothing is .'quoted' from our Yark Grand Lodge proceedings we
presume our Mexican English is considered a foreign language. We
will improv~ with practice." (Proc~edings not received in time.)
·The topical form as presented in California's reviews by R:.w:.
Brother Whited is "unique." Choice tid-bits are selected by this
"chef," which increase the readers and reviewers' appetites for
greater and larger quantities.
If 'we are permitted to suggest, we would like the pages of the
reviews from which these items are culled to be inserted with each
"tid-bit."

Nova Scotia:
Rev. Dr. Tully C. Knoles, President of the College of the Pacific,
delivered his Annual Oration, his subject being "Education from a
Masonic Standpoint." This is an excellent production · and of great
interest.
A very interesting ceremony took place during this communication which was a presentation of a .g old button to R.'.W.".Brothcr

98

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

John Whicher . in commemoration of fifty years service as a Master
Mason. Brother Whicher is Grand Secretary.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submitted his ninth report as Chairman of the Correspondence Committee. As usual, under the various
topics dealt with, he expresses his views thereon. In Brother Whited's
introduction, which is both lengthy and interesting, he deals with a
number of important and interesting matters, such as Masonic Education? the Landmarks, Masonic Temples, Trials and The Mission of
Masonry. Dealing with our distinguished Brother' s General Report
in 1928, with the best feeling in the world, we had occasion to mention that apparently nothing had happened at the session of the
Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia during the previous year to attract the
attention of the reviewer; we have no such complaint to make this
year, for under a number of headings, such as Advertising, Gambling,
Bouquets and Brickbats, and under the heading of "Olla Podrida"
(whatever that means), Nova Scotia recevies considerable attention.
Commonly speaking, we are not particularly in love with the topical
system, but there is this about it, that one can quickly and easily
discover the matters discussed through this system than by the
ordinary reviewing. Anyway, with that well-known Masonic ability
that Brother Whited possesses, he has furnished a most interesting
and instructive synopsis of the proceedings of Sister Grand Lodges,
every word of which is well wor't h careful perusal.
Wes tern Australia:
The Grand Master's address gave a most interesting account of
· the services he had rendered to the Craft in California during his
year of office.
The Grand Secretary, V:.W:.Brother John Whicher, furnishes
a great- account of the year's proceedings, as might be expected of
such an outstanding figure in California Masonry.
Not the least interesting of the reports is that which relates to
the Masonic Homes at Decoto and Covina. Any Brother who wishes
to hear about them can acquire a fund of information by dining or
lunching with members of the governing body.
There are two passages in the ·Grand Lecturer's report well
worthy of reproduction as applicable outside California.
The 1burial service, as revised, is certainly an improvement on
the former one, but, compared with that which we use, when called
upon, in this State, is still enough to invite the cry, "How long, 0
Lord, how long" to use the words quoted by an English clergyman,
famed for his wit, the Rev. Rowland Hill, when referring to the
Episcopalian funeral service.

99

Brother Jesse M. Whited is again the author of the Review of
Foreig-n ·Correspondence. It is his ninth . essay along a path which
he has not only made peculiarly his own, but is beset w ith so much
to attract that to read once what he has written is not sufficiently
satisfying. Preferences of the Western Australian scribe lie in the
direction of the individual review, but at the same time he is penetrated with admiration for Brother Whited's method of handling
the topical style. And thereby hangs a tale. Speaking about that
same method, some years ago, to an American Brother, the writer
was told: "Jesse ·W hited uses it because he has brains," which was
surely "scandalum magnatum" obliquely directed against the other
"Knights of the Round Table," save those concerned in ·the New
South Wales book. My Wes.t ern Australian Brethren will be gratified tO learn t hat the review of Foreign ·Correspondence in our
Proceedings for 1928 is the most fre quently quoted of all the Jurisdictions in the California review, and will value such an appreciation
of the Western Australian effort to give something of service to the
Craft. Not only that, .but Brother Whited offers some extremely
p~rtinent. observations on the subject of Correspondence Reports,
~1th special_reference to Wes tern Australia, which I gladly reproduce
m my foreword.

The Eighty-first Annual Communication, San Francisco, October 14 to 17, 1930. Charles M. Wollenberg, Grand Master.
Arizona:
The event which brought to me the greatest personal pleasure
and pride of the year was the opportunity to act as Installing Officer
on the occasion of the installation of the Officers of Mizpah Lodge,
Number 378, of Los Angeles, on the evening of December 22, 1930.
At that time my beloved and only son, Forrest Art hur Betts, was
elevated to the honorable and distinguished position of Master of
that Lodge.
The occasion was made more memorable, happy and enjoyable ·
by the action of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, John Stewart
Ross, of the Grand Lodge of California, in convening the Grand
!--odge in ~pecial Communication for the purpose of officially receivmg me as its guest. Several Grand Lodge Officers, including a number of Past Grand Masters, were present. My reception was cordial
and gracious and the honor was emphasized by the Grand Master in
tendering to me the gavel and permitting me to seat the assemblage.
It was the second time within a little more than a year that
Grand Master Ross had distinctly honored the Grand Jurisdiction of

REPORT ON CORRES P ONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC T•:

Arizona. As the Representative of the Grand Master and the Grand
Lodge of California, he visited Arizona Lodge Number 2 at Phoenix
in November, 1929, during the time that he was Deputy Grand Master, on the occasion of the celebration of the Fiftieth Anniversary of
that Lodge, and by his gracious manner and pleasing address endeared himself ~o everyone present.
The Grand Jurisdiction of Arizona has always been proud of
the fact that it is a child of the Grand Lodge of California. Four of
the five Lodges existing at the time of the organization of our Grand
Lodge had received their authority from California. The bond of
fraternal friendship has been strengthened and cemented from year
to year and I know that it will grow more precious from time to
time. I am exceedingly and profoundly grateful to Grand Master
Ross for the courtesies extended to me incident to the meetings here
described.

Brother Jesse M. Whitted presents his tenth annual report for
the Committee on correspondence, and, while it covers a multiplicity
of subjects, it cannot be classed as a review. It is, however, well
calculated to transmit a world of Masonic news to those who will
take the time to read it.

100

*

*

*

*

There is hardly a Chairman of a Correspondence Committee who
doesn't mention that Arizona has a Committee on Correspondence
which makes no report. The California reviewer reports by topics
instead of commenting on each State. This form, followed by one
or two other Jurisdictions, makes a most readable book. ·
Connecticut:
Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg submits an able address.
* * * He pays grateful tribute to Grand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker,
who is personally known to some Connecticut brethren, and who was
evidently zealous and industrious in performing his duties.
He ·had · some annoyance from political matters being brought
into Lodges. He correctly infers that Masons generally resent this
and doubts if it accomplished much good for the misguided political
candidate. Let us add that the effect is frequently opposite to · that
intended.
District of Columbia:
M:.
Brother Wollenberg attended the Grand Masters' Conference in Washington, but apparently d.id not get any new ideas
Altogether Grand Master Wollenberg's address dealt with many
important Masonic problems, all of which he handled in a levelheaded way and with a true .conception of the good of the Order.
Employment offices are maintained by the Grand Lodge in San
Francisco, Los Angeles, Long Beach, San Diego and Alameda, and
all show good reports of assistance rendered to the brethren

w:.

101

Florida:
As one star is said to "differ from another," so do the Proceedings of Grand Lodges vary. This is quite noticeable in the 1930
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of California of approximately 600
pages, and of . such a nature that almost literally it can be said "that
none of them (pages) could have been properly omitted." Necessarily, therefore, only a few of the "high spots" can be touched in
the review.
"One of the most notable addresses ever presented in this Grand
Lodge," is the well deserved encomium given to the Anl'lual Message
of Grand Master Wollenberg in the report of his stewardship in
which he presented suggestions, conclusions and recommendations
of more than ordinary merit.
One of the outstanding events of the year was the elaborate
ceremonial dedication of the club house of the Masonic Club of the
University of California at Los Angeles and which was followed by
the dedication of the campus of the University.
Another event of increasing statewide magnitude was the
Eleventh Annual Observance of Public Schools Week, eclipsing all
previous affairs of this nature.
Much constructive work is being done by the Committee on
Masonic History and from the thoroughness with which it is proceeding in collecting and filing information it bids fair to be a
monumental production.
Conditions preclude consideration of the wonderful work being
accomplished by the Masonic Homes at Decato and Covina, as well
as the reports of several other committees, besides various other
matters, all of which indicate that the activities of the Grand Lodge
of California are in keeping with Western civilization and advancement.
Possibly excelling previous reviews is the topical report of the
Committee on Correspondence, of· which Broth'er Jesse M. Whited
is the chairman and probably the sole "we" as well. The comments
are the individual views of the chairman pertaining to the topic
which follows-reproductions from the Proceedings-with the idea
of presenting to the reader some of the important questions before
the Masonic fraternity and which iriclude several select.i ons from the

HEPORT ON COHHESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Florida Proceedings, as well as this much appreciated comment under
the heading "Recognition ·of Foreign Grand Lodges."

Public Schools Vhek is a kind of distinctive California Institution which has the cordial support of the Lodges. Your Maine correspondent receives the Annual Report of this splendid work which
is being done in this Great Jurisdiction and appreciates the thoughtfulness on the part of the Committee.
The Annual Oration was delivered by Worshipful Brother
William C. Hassler, Grand Orator. * * * It was a real masterpiece of instructive oratory which we have greatly enjoyed.
Many pages of the report are given to the California Masonic
Homes, showing efficient administration but the old story of mounting costs.
The usual topical report of the Committee on Correspondence
is written by M.'. W.'. Brother Jesse M. Whited. * * * The
compilation is made in a masterly way and makes interesting reading on the various mooted subjects in the Masonic world.

102

Idaho:
The Masonic educational work planned and carried out each year
in California is worthy of special mention. Large sums of money
have been appropriated and the Committee's conclusion with respect
to the educational program is that it is going forward with a sound,
firm step, and that the history of this movement will show a bright
page in the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge.

*

*

*

*

Brother Jesse M. Whited, Correspondent for the Grand Lodge
of California, mentions about thirty orations, papers and reports
from the Proceedings reviewed under the heading "Interesting Reading." They are entertaining, worthy of examination and valuable
for reference. ·Those who desire to read these papers will find the title
mentioned, the Jurisdiction, year and page of the Proceedings given.
Two papers from our Idaho Proceedings are mentioned, "The Responsibilities of the Masonic Lodge," 1928, and "Montana Masonry,"
Idaho, 1928.
Indiana:
T.he Grand Master opens his well-worded address with an admonition.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits a very interesting Report on
Correspondence in topical form.
Kansas:
The Grand Master submitted an interesting address and from
the preface we take pleasure in <quoting.
Referring to their faithful Grand Secre~ary he had the following to say. * * *
The Grand Master visited one hundred two Lodges during his
administration, which speaks well for that distinguished brother.
We take the following interesting words from the Annual Oration delivered by Brother William C. Hassler. * * *
The usual Report on Correspondence was pr,epared by Brother
Jesse M. Whited and is submitted in a topical form.
Maine:.
Of "Degree Teams" the Grand Master is skeptical and discourages their use and recommends that the subject be given careful
consideration by Grand Lodge.

103

Massachusetts:
A drive to the Masonic Home gave us a much appreciated opportunity to see the splendid care they are giving to their unfortunate brothers in California.
In the evening we attended a meeting of the Lodge Speranza
Italiana, where the Master had the rather unusual pleasure of presiding with a Grand Master on either side of him, as M ,'. W.'. Brother
Wollenberg was received at this meeting.
We left San Francisco on August 1st, feeling that a tie had been
strengthened between those geographical Masonic extremes-,-California and Massachusetts-and with an admiration for California
Masonry.
Michigan:
To the minutes alone are devoted 367 pages of the Proceedings.
To a topical "Report of the Committee on Correspondence," by that
prince of correspondents, of that sort, Brother Jesse M. Whited,
are accorded 136 pages. To an Appendix containing valuable general
information are assigned 17 pages.
It would require an intellectual Hercules to reduce the Proceedings to an intelligible minimum. Such a Reviewer the Jurisdiction of Michigan does not possess.
By common consent, California has enjoyed the services, this
year, of an unusual Grand Master. The portrait of M. W. Grand
Master Charles Maurice Wollenberg validates this consensus of
opinion . .Made a Master Mason at 33. He was elected Grand Master

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

when 56 years of age. A man of indomitable energy. In fact, he
is and has for th~ last twenty-odd years been active in all public
and private endeavors that pertain to the welfare of the poor. His
friends· marvel at his activities and the fact that he .never tires of
doing for others and never loses his enthusia.sm.
Another personal touch is the testimony of M. W. Grand Master
of California to the value to the · Jurisdiction of their R. W. Grand
Secretary.
A busy year is indicated by a statistical statement, but it is, so
to speak, only one page in a big volume of official acts.
·
To the Masonic Homes at Covina and Decoto, 72 pages of intensely interes ting reading are accorded. ·
Masonic Education has been receiving particular attention in
California for some years and the report of the Educational Committee is always full of practical suggestions for effective work.
The exercises in California in connect~on with School-Day are
bright, sparkling, invigorating. Masonry believes in the Public
Schools properly conducted.
In th e topical Review, Michigan receives a two-fold notice : a
short quotation fro~ Grand Master Newton's Address and a few
trivialities from the comments of the R. W. Grand Chaplain-Committee on Correspondence. It is far from doubtful whether these
quotations furnish a suspicion even of what was done at Michigan's
Annual Communication. But after its kind, ·it is a splendid review of
the thought that is stirring in Masonic Jurisdictions.

Lecturer. These two names we know in Nevada nearly as well as ·
some of our own. The mention of either of them br ings to mind
kindly thoughts of zealous Maso ns.

104

Minnesota:
In his Annual Message, an admirable address, the Grand Master
said that many problems had been presented to him.
The Grand Master wisely and rightly, in our opm10n, denied
dispensation for formation of a new Lodge in Los Angeles where
the petitioners were all of the Syrian race.
In the Maso ni c Hom es th e Masons of California have a magnificent institution that commands th e admiration of all who have
visited them. * * * The reports of the Trustees and Superintendents are most interesting.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presented his tenth Annual Report
on Fraternal Correspondence, again in the topical form, very intetesting and illuminating.

105

W: . Broth er W . C. Hassler, Grand Orator, delivered a very
fine oration. H e takes us away back to the Pliocene and Miocene
back to the time before Old Man Stone Hatchet even had his hatchet'
but brings us through unscathed.
'
The Committee on Masonic History presented an excellent and
i_~teresting report. Mention is made of Marysville a nd Chico. E specially of · J ohn Bidwell turning against Masonry. I knew him as a
hoy, but, or course, knew nothing of his Masonry. I do know, however, that many of the so-called bosses on th e R ancho Chico were
active Maso ns.
The Correspondence Report is presented by Jesse M. Whited ..
It is a topical report, or more of a digest of the topics chosen from
a survey of the Proceedings of other Jurisdictions. Nevada is mentioned on six different occasions.
New Hampshire:
F reemasonry is so g r eat, in g reat California, that they take four
days for their Annual.
. The address of the Grand Master, in California, is called a message, just as though the Grand Body were the Cong ress of the
United States.
We want to thank him for urgi ng that nis Grand Secretary be
sent t o th e Annual Conference of Grand Secretaries. T he hand of
every one of us quickly and joyously went out to give him a welcom e.
W e do not wonder that the Grand Master gasped w hen he found
out that in San Francisco, for the city election, there appeared a socalled Masonic ticket. He mus t have had a shock when news came
to him that there was to be a state ticket of the same character We
simply say th at the men who engineered it were h.o t Masons, although
they may have been members of Masonic L odges.
Whew! Their net increase in membership was 4,350. One could
star t a Grand Lodge with those fig ure_s.
The Correspondence continues to be of the t opical variety.
Everybody gets into it, in one way or another. O( its kind California
presents a complete document-of its kind none may hope to excel it.
New Jersey:

Nevada:
Grand Master Wollenberg paid fine tribute to our good friends,
Brothers J ohn Vlhicher and T om Baker, Grand Secretary and Gra nd

'. There are so many interesting things in this volume, which
records the doings of our California Bre thren, that a comprehensive
review is extrem ely difficult. Com m ittee reports are co mplete, far -

106

Hl~l'ORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

reaching and voluminous. Many of them contain items subject to
universal application. Under the circumstances, . our limited space
imposes a hardship.
California is enthusiastic over the Public School situation, and
each year the Fraternity sponsors Public Schools Week.
In accordance w'th an honored custom, the Grand Lodge paused
in its deliberations to listen to a .message from its Grand Orator.
It was a wonderfully fine address and we regret we cannot repro- .
duce it in its entirety.
Our Brethren on the coast are making an effort to bring together the separated threads of Masonic History in California. The ·
results of its year's research are full of interest and throw much
light on the Masonic customs of early days.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits California's Review of Correspondence. As usual, it is in topical form. * * * * The work is
excellently done and the compilation has been carefully and intelligently made.
New Mexico:
Education holds a warm place in the hearts of this Grand Lodge.
For many years the Proceedings of California have carried glowing
accounts of the work which Masons do to encourage the observance
of Education Week, and of the support they give to Masonic Homes
for students at the various universities of the state. This year is no
exception.
Degree teams were put in their proper place by Grand Master
Charles M. Wollenberg.
Another amazing matter involved politics. The offending Masons
in this case used letterheads, Masonic titles and circular letters calling attention to their Masonic connections. The Grand Master did
not . show all of the spunk one would like to see in a Grand Master
in dealing with this situation.
Jesse M. Whited, Foreign Correspondent, reviews by topics.
His "introduction" is a masterpiece, but we cannot say as much for
his other report, since it does not meet with our notion of what a
report should be. We acknowledge, however, that that is a narrowmirided view of one writer, and, if it suits California, no one else
should object.
New York:
M.". W:. Brother Wollenberg upheld with credit the high
standard set by his predecessor in .office, in zealous service as well as
constructive advance.

107

A high but well deserved tr ibute is paid to Grand Secretary

V:. W:. John Whicher, who has occupied that office for twentythree years with distinction to himself and solid benefit to the Craft.
California has taken a step which will be watched with much
interest; the qualifications of Wardens have been distinctively fixed,
and those who cannot measure up to them will not be permitted to
hold such offices.
As in the past, so in the present report, Brother Jesse M. Whited
gathers good things found in the various reports under various and
appropriate headings. The topical plan has the advantage of making
such quo~ations more readily accessible to those who are looking
for material for talks. On the other hand, it deprives the reader of
t~e _opportu_n.ity of getting acquainted with fellow Grand L odges as
distinct entities. Brother Whited's report will be read with pleasure
and profit, as he manages to touch upon local and personal matters,
aside from keeping in mind the student of the law and practice of
the Fraternity.
North Carolina:
.
Educatio~ Week in California Masonry is an outstanding period
~n the Masomc year. * * * California spends more per capita on
its school children than any other state in the Union. When we read
of the interest which California Masonry displays in its Education
Week, staged in April, we can understand why this is possible.
California still shows net gains in membership, but at a reduced.
rate. Last year the net gain was about 4,300 ; this year it is 3,400.
This .California record is all that saved the entire United States from
a much greater net loss than it actually shows for the year just ended.
One of the hest Masonic Orations that we have read is that of
Grand Orator William C. Hassler.
The Repo.rt of the Committee on Correspondence is again a
monumental piece of work, done topically and all well done. Congratulations to Reviewer Jesse M. Whited and his assistants.
Oklahoma:

*

*

• •

The picture of Charles Maurice Wollenberg, Grand Master 1930,
ornaments a page in the Journal of Proceedings.
The Report of the Committee o n Forei~n Correspondence is by
~rother Jess~ Whited and covers 136 pages. The Grand Judsdict1ons a:e rev1e':e? not in alphabetical order, but by subject, which
makes 1t very d1ff1cult for a Brother Reviewer to make a satisfactory
report.

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Pennsylvania:
California, unlike many other Grand Jurisdictions, gives evidence
of growth numerically as well as otherwise.
Another pointed indication of the healthful growth of our Fraternity on the Western Coast is the twenty-two Special Communications of the Grand Lodge convened during the year.
Indeed, one cannot read of anything concerning California without being impressed with its growth and development. With its great
natural resources, its health-giving climatic conditions, its rapid'!y
growing commerce with the Orient, together with the resultant
benefit to its shipping interests through the Panama Canal and the
fact that with improved facilities of transportation its isolation from
the Atlantic Coast is no longer a handicap to those seeking its vast
fields of opportunity-all give rise to wonderment as to the future
of the Golden Gate State. But we must not digress; otherwise we
shall be fairly chargeable with being a "California Booster."
Brother Whited presented his usual intensely interesting topical
Report on Fraternal Correspondence in which he freely quoted the
remarks of~:. W:. Grand Master Snyder before the Grand Lodge
of New York on the subject of the Order of Eastern Star and its
operations in Pennsylvania.

Several items found in the Report of the Committee on Masonic
History were of especial interest to us.
The Committee on Public Schools Week made an extended
report and were able to say that from "every point of view the latest
observance was the most successful ever held." For eleven years
the Grand Lodge of California has been stressing this feature and
with most gratifying results, if one may judge from t)le. character of
reports from various localities and groups. There are many reasons
why similar sustained efforts in behalf of the Public Schools should
be made in other Jurisdictions.
·
From the Committee's Report on Clandestine Masonry some
interesting facts are gleaned.
'
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence is in the usual
form, and is again the work of Brother Jesse M. Whited. We like
this Brother's work, and refer to it at times during the year.

. 108

Tennessee:
The Annual Oration was by R.". W.". Brother Hassler, the
Grand Orator. Among other beautiful things, he said: • • •
The Report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence is in
the order of a digest. He does not take each state separately; however, Tennessee is often referred to in his digest.

• • •

•

Utah:
The Grand Master spoke well merited words in praise of Grand
Secretary Whicher.
The Grand Orator spoke at some length, and his address makes
interesting reading, but what his subject was is not iquite clear, unle&s it be the need and place of Masonry in the world. It always
seems a pity 'to us that such occasions are so often used to perpetuate
legends which have so little ·or no foundation in fact. Here, for example, is the exploded statement that "out of the fifty-six signers of
our Declaration of Independence fifty-two were Masons." One who
has given much time to a search for authentic records to justify this
assertion reports that the best that he could do was to find that
fifteen , not fifty-two, of the signers were members of the Craft.

109

• • • •

Vermont:
No statement .as to attendance of Grand Rep~esentatives came
within our ken. If we failed to find the obvious, we beg pardon of
Grand Secretary John Whicher.
This list is not given for the convenience of our · members who
may sojourn in California, but rather to show how extensive and
how well organized is the system of relief in California.
. The Report of the Committee on Correspondence is the eleventh
from the pen of Brother Jesse M. Whited. Like its predecessors 1 it
is topical in form and is a document of outstanding Masonic interest. • • • • Brother Whited's ideas on Masonic Education
are sound.

Virginia:
Jesse M. Whited, Chairman · Committee on Corresp~ndence,
presents his tenth report. For Virginia he notes the restoration of
the monument to Edmund Randolph. .Brother Whited uses the
topical form, which was so much disliked by our predecessor. Few
use this style; if it pleases California it is agreeable to us."

•

• • • •

"M. W. Brother Wollenberg had· much to communicate his
address filling thirty-five pages of print. Naturally, most of the
matters were only of local interest, but all bore witne~ to the fact
tha.t in his twelve months' activities, the Grand Master had applied
~imself to the discharge of his duties with the thoroughness, high
mtelligence, and self-sacrificing devotion that has for so many
years made the name of Charles Maurice Wollenberg almost a
household word in San Francisco for upwards of a quarter of a

R:J:PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

century. The reviewer has pleasant memories of meeting Brother
Wollenberg on more than one occasion in the Masonic Club in San
Francisco, a few years ago."

always existed between California and the Philippines that we try·
to review the doings of California as exhibited in their 1930 Proceedings.
Their outstanding work is the relief work, and employment work,
and the public emphasizing of the importance of the Public Schools.
Grand Master Wollenberg was very tender but emphatic in his
message. He brought home to the California brethren the largeness
of their task.
Brother William C. Hassler, Grand Orator, stirred the brethren
to enthusiasm with a virile message on Masonry.
The Reports on the Homes of California are indeed touching
reading and make the heart glad.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits his tenth topical review and
he makes a success of it.

110

.

*

*

*

*

*

"The Californian Masonic funeral service has been shortened,
an improvement that was certainly needed."

*

*

*

* '*

Wisconsin:
M.". W.". Brother Jesse M. Whited submits another of his interesting Reports on Correspondence, arranged in topical form.
\Visconsin receives seven items of consideration. Brother Whited
concludes, as usual, with statistical tables of valuable interest.
British Columbia:
A · Special Committee submitted a lengthy report on Clandestine
Masonry, which seems to have acquired a considerable foothold in
California. The report, while very valuable, is far too long to copy.
In the review of Foreign Correspondence, which is constructed
on the "topical" plan, and which was prepared by Brother Jesse M.
Whited, we find the following description of a ceremony, "THE
MacDUFF," of which, we confess, we were until now Jgnorant.
Nova Scotia:
After a very busy year, full of beneficial results, the Grand
Master returned thanks for the great assistance rendered him by the
Grand Secretary and others and then gave up the Gavel.
The Grand Orator delivered a very eloquent and truly instruc·
tive address, while the report of the Grand Lecturer shows the
Lodges in the different districts to be in excellent condition.
Brother Jesse M. Whited, Chairman, presented his Tenth Report
on behalf of the Correspondence Committee. In a clear and coneise
manner the Chairman expressed his views on the various topics
considered, thus producing a very interesting and most instructive
review.
Now, while not enamored with this topical system of review,
still we are bound to admit that our good Brother Whited has
made a good job of it and has presented a very interesting arid instructive synopsis of what the "other fellow" says and does, for
which he deserves credit.
Philippine Islands:
Our next door neighbor Grand Lodge is California, and in addition that Grand Lodge is our immediate Mother Grand Lodge. It
is with keen appreciation of the fine _fraternal relations which have

111

Saskatchewan:
An interesting feature of the opening ceremonies was the reception accorded to M. W. Brother Stephen Jones, Past Grand
Master of British Columbia.
An interesting c~remony during the year was the dedication of
the Masonic Club House at the University of California at Los
Angeles, which has been erected for the use of the children of Masons
attending college. The work 'carried on there is for the mental,
spiritual and social welfare of the children of Masonic families. A
similar Club House has been erected at the University of California
at Berkeley.
Western Australia:
"If for no other reason-although there are many, as numerous,
indeed as his Masonic activities, Grand Secretary Whicher's annual
report would fully justify the assertion of the different Grand Masters who have held office during his Grand Secretaryship, that he
is one of the best Grand Secretaries in the world. Brother Whicher
reports for more than the Jurisdiction to which he devotes the
whole of his time, for he furnishes information so complete in all
its details that, coupled with the admirable manner in which he,
compiles the Proceedings and the splendid index to them, those
interested in the, California Jurisdiction, and also the Brethren
whose duty it is to review the California volumes, have reason to
be grateful for the super-excellence of Brother Whicher's work.
When the Wes tern Australian reviewer attended an Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California, the conspicuously
business-like way in which the agenda-paper was disposed of almost
made him feel as though he was attending a Communication of his
own Grand Lodge, where all the arrangements reflect the personality

112

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE

of our own late popular and esteemed Grand Secretary, R: W.
Brother J. D. Stevenson. It is not generally known that the first
Grand Secretary of California, a General in the Army, 'bore the
same initials and surname as our Grand Secretary. That was eightyone years ago."

• • • • •

"One of the prominent features of the volume is the report of
the Committee on Masonic History. In American salesmanship,
one o{ the lessons taught is: 'If you wish to interest your prospect,
don't be slow with your samples.' The historic 'samples' exhibited
in the report must have interested the Brethren to an equal degree,
and stimulated them to assist the committee in its excellent work.
Many of them would equally interest any Western Australian
Brethren, who are recommended to borrow the volume from the
Grand Secretary's office, as they are too numerous for reproduction
in these pages.
"Public Schools Week was again observed. Californians have
always, and with reason, been proud of their public educational
system, and in M. W. Brother C. A. Adams' year of office (1919-20)
as Grand Master, Public Schools Week was inaugurated in order
that the Fraternity should strengthen and widen the people's interest
in public education.''

• • • • •

"A committee which discharged its functions with commendable
thoroughness was one appointed to inquire into clandestinism in
California.''

• • • • •

"Compared with the volumes of several other United States
Masonic Jurisdictions, the California book is only moderately large,
but it is so packed with good things that it would be pleasant to
stay with it much longer, particularly if, like my Michigan Brother
reviewer, I had 600 pages allotted to me.''
•.
"Again we have the topical form, par excellence, of review of
the Proceedings of Grand Lodges, and to aver this is to say it is
from the pen of Brother Jesse Whited. Therein will be found,
under topical headings, what leaders of Masonic thought in the
different Jurisdictions think and say of matters vitally concerning
the Craft, and at the head of the quotations Brother Whited states
with admirable conciseness his own commonsense view of the subject. There is also ·a n introduction in which a number of minor
subjects are interestingly summarized and otherwise dealt with.
' Western Australia receives generous treatment, and our review of
proceedings is t~e most quoted of . all the Grand Lodges outside
the United States.''

.....

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

OLLA-PODRIDA
This Spanish term means "A dish of stewed meat," hence a
mixture. We believe it an appropriate term to cover the excerpts
which show the activities of various Grand Lodges during the past
year. In it we have endeavored to set forth the material things
from the Correspondence Report, which reviews each Jurisdiction
separately. As heretofore we made a liberal use of the excellent
Correspondence Reports of New York, the Philippine Islands and
other Jurisdictions who review the past doings of the American and
Foreign Masonic worlds in brief outline.
We have begged, borrowed and stolen from them and others
indiscriminately, and trust that the epigram of the late Grand Secretary of Nevada, "A wise borrower hath more wisdom than a poor
composer" is applicable.
Alabama:
The Gr;md Master reports that at the very beginning of his
term of office he had to borrow money on a note to take care of
maintenance · expenses of the Masonic Home. That was in January,
and he had to do the same thing every month since. Hoping to place
the Home on a pay-as-you-buy basis, he appealed to the Lodges for
contributions representing one dollar · per member. An intensive
"drive" was made at an expense of $1,796.60 for correspondence, the
salary of a drive director, etc. The total amount collected amounted
to $25,475, representing $22,879 less than the expectancy.
While grateful for the substantial material help, he finds that
many Lodges with residents in the Home did not contribute at all.
A glance at the figures shows that thirty-nine non-contributing
Lodges have 111 residents in the Home at the expense of Grand
Lodge to the amount of. $21,550 a year. Two of these Lodges are ·
defunct. The aggregate membership of the o_ther thirty-seven is
2,689.
The number of residents in the Masonic Home is 425: 59 women,
21 men, 169 girls, 176 boys. Ninety-six children attend high school
and eight are· in college.
R :. W :. Bro. James E. Dill~rd, Grand Orator, presented "A
Kaleidoscopic View of Freemasonry," enumerating various aspects
of the subject. He told a story of a small boy who fell out of bed
quite frequently and, when his mother asked him to explain, he said:
"I tell you why I do it. It is because I go to sleep too close to ,
where I get in." It's a good explanation to ren1:ember when we
wonder why so many Masons drop out.

• • • • •

•.

"

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

114

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

According to the Grand Secretary's Report, the Grand Lodge
Library now has about four thousand books.
Arkansas:
The Home has on hand a school problem. One hundred and
nine of the children attend the Batesville school. As a result the
District is going deeper in debt every year. The Grand Master placed
before the State Board of Education the need of appropriating from
State funds sufficient to save this School District the added burden . .
He told that in Oklahoma the State pays $7,000 a year for the
schooling of the Masonic children there. He argues that the children
belong to the State, and just because the Masons house them, feed
and clothe them, does not relieve the State of the responsibility
toward them. He urges that all the membership should take a hand
in the matter and urge the Assemblymen and Senators of their particular districts to take action.
He does not think favorably of a Masonic Old Folks' Home,
knowing from experience that most old people do not like to be
away from their accustomed surroundings, nor will they submit to
institutional regulation of their habits and doings. Pensions have
proved more satisfactory under a plan whereby the local Lodge goes
50-50 with the Pension Board. The maximum should be increased
from twenty to thirty dollars.
Connecticut:
The Grand Secretary reports that encouraging progress has
been made in the building up of the Grand Lodge Library.
The Committee on Finance tackled the difficult problem of
meeting the needs of the Masonic Charity Foundation of Connecticut in a manner to provide for the ever increasing demands made
upon it. Under the existing plan all funds raised annually are required to take care of the needs of the year. Twenty dollars now are
collected by the Lodges from every initiate and every affiliate from
fellow Jurisdictions and are turned over to Grand Lodge for general
expenses in the administration of the Masonic Home. The falling
off of initiations and affiliations has shown the precariousness of
the plan. Besides, experience has made clear that an Endowment
Fund is an absolute necessity. Unless such fund is accumulated,
the Committee reports, "a time will come when care of the aged,
infirm and orphans will impose a prohibitive financial burden on
the individual Lodges."
Delaware:
The Masonic Home, opened in 1913, has had 81 guests so far,
of whom 27 are provided for now.

The Gunning Bedford, Jr., Scholarship Fund has supplied welcome support to six young people, all but one. (who atten~s the
State Teachers' College at Millersville, Pa.) bemg enrolled m the
University of Delaware.
Two hundred and fifty dollars was included in the budget for
the purchase of books for the Grand Lodge Library.
Among his recommendations is one asking for a regulation
forbidding, for the future of the organization, in the District. of
Columbia of any society of whatever purpose or name, making
membership in a Lodge prerequisite to admission, wit hout the formal. consent of the Grand Lodge.
He also recommends the adoption of an amendment to the
constitution requiring Lodges, before engaging in building enterprises, to submit to Grand Lodge a full stateme~t of. methods of
financing them, together with the plans and spec1ficat10ns of such
projected structure or structures.
Among the cornerstone-layings of the year was one of the new
Administration Building of the National Education Association, and
the other of the Western Presbyterian Church.
The Rev. Brother John C. Palmer, Grand Chaplain, is carrying
on the unique out-door religious services held under the auspices of
the Craft, on beautiful and spacious shaded and unused grounds near
the Treaty Oak on Temple Heights. These services in an unostentatious way have impressed the people of the District of Columbia
and the official representatives of t he various governments of the
world as giving "evidence of Freemasonry's fundamental revere~ce
for the Great Architect of the Universe, and the free, unsectarian
nature of its religious attitude." Ten different denominations were
represented amdng the speakers on the program of 1930. At every
service there have been many visitors from foreign Jurisdictions.
0

Florida:
Forty-two pages of the Grand Master's address are taken up
with decisions and dispensations.
On April 1, 1930, there were in the Home 19 men, 17 wom_en,
55 girls, and 57 boys, making a total of 148 members in the family.
Recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Chile and an
exchange of representatives offered.
Georgia:
One unique undertaking of the Georgia Craft is a plan to encourage Bible reading among small boys. The work is promoted
by a Committee on Proverbs. Boys were given various topics from

116

REPORT. ON CORRESPONDENCE

the Book of Proverbs to write about. Prizes were offered. Several
hundred boys competed. Last year the award included one first
prize, two second prizes, five third prizes, ten fourth prizes. Of the
other essays submitted, 44 were declared to be worthy of special
mention and e.a ch of the young writers was awarded one dollar. A
resolution was adopted by Grand Lodge approving the work for the
incoming year, under the direction of a committee of five to be
appointed by the Grand Maste.r. Six hundred dollars was appropriated for prizes.
There are in the Home 203 children : 105 boys and 97 girls.
There is also one old lady for whom the Home was considered a
better place than the environment in which she had lived. ' Fortyseven children are living with their mothers. All others taken care
of by Grand Lodge are orphans without father or mother. One
hundred and ninety-seven children of the Home are attending school :
28 girls and 28 boys attend high school. Some of the young people
are working in the print shop, othe~s are training for various •occupations. One girl is training to be a nurse. Much is done to advise
the children as to what they are best fitted for and to influence their
vocational training accordingly. All the children attend Sunday
School and church in Macon, each going to the church with which
their families were affilaited.
Illinois:
The general health of the children at the Masonic Orphans
Home at La Grange is reported · to have been exceptionally good.
There are in the Home 258 children, an increase of 21 over the year
before. Ninety are less than ten years of age; 101 are of gramm~r
school age, and 46 are attending high school.
•
·
The Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons made its usual annual
donation of $5,000 toward the maintenance of the Hospital. Two
substantial bequests were received.

Indiana:
Serious floods caused much suffering in the wester.n part of
Indiana. The Grand Secretary, in behalf of Grand Lodge, immediately offered assistance through the Masters of the Lodges in that
District. Answers came back that no assistance was required and
that all Brethren would be properly cared for and looked after locally.
The Governor of the State, on recommendation by the Legislature, had appointed a committee to consider the enforcement of
law and then invited various leaders, among them the Grand Master,
to attend the conferences of the committee.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

117

There are in the Masonic Home at the present time 126 men,

79 women, 98 girls and 128 boys, making a total of 431. T wo hun• dred and sixteen children attend school regularly.
Iowa:
Desirous of meeting with as many officers and Brethren of the
Fraternity in Iowa as p~ssible, the Grand Master directed D istrict
Conferences to be arranged for at appropriate dates. Sixteen such
conferences were held.
.
Grand Secretary C. C. Hunt, who also is the Librarian, gives
an interesting account of the rise of the Grand I:odge Library fro~
· its humble beginnings in 1884 to the present hme w~en approximately 40,000 books are on the shelf, many ?f them priceless. The
Library is open to the citizens of Cedar Rapids and t~e students of
Coe College and is much appreciated by the whole city. A collection of pla;s has been purchased for help to Lodges desiring to
organize entertainments.
· The collection in the Muse um has been increased by many
valuable gifts during the year.
The Trustees of .the Gr~nd Lodge Charity Fund report that
continued relief was granted to 124 persons, to an aggregate am~~nt
of $21,426.47. Among the beneficiaries of the fund are 36 fam~hes
with a total of 109 minor children. During the last year these received
$10,860, aside from a fund which may have been contributed by
individual Lodges.
The Masonic Sanitarium ·is reported to have enjoyed a most
satisfactory year, from the standpoint of service as wel~ ~s e~onom?'
of ol>eration. On May 31, 1930, 42 persons were remammg m r~s1dence. Upward of thirty physicians, all members of the Fraternity,
contribute time and skill without compensation to the good work
carried on by the sanitarium.
Kentucky:
Kentucky is determined to carry through her great program for
her Masonic ·Homes. The one for widows and orphans has 624
residents, among them 287 boys, 292 girls and 45 w~dows. Th~ b.est
medical, surgical and dental skill available in the City of Lou1s~11le
is reported to be · supplied without cost to the Home for the serv1c~s
rendered. The men at the Old Masons' Home are repor ~ed to b~ m
fine spirits, and there practically have been no complaints, which,
considering the general experience, is excellent testimony.
The Educational Trustees dispensed approximately $8,500 for
the schooling and clothing of 33 children outside of the Home.
The first ward of the Masonic Home for Children to be graduated from the Bolton H igh Schoo'! at Alexandria will go to college,

REPORT ON c;:oRRESPONDENCE

118

119

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

thanks to the action of the Scottish Rite Bodies of the City of
Shreveport, which have undertaken to pay the expenses.
The Home has taken care of 101 children during the · year, 51
of them being boys. The children are given a practical education
by being taught the value of food supplies by helping to produce
them. The boys work in the fields and the girls assist in h ousehold
work, preparing vegetables, assisting in the cooking, and learning
other details that will lay the .foundation for becoming successful
housekeepers.
Maryland:
The Library Committee reports increasing interest in the reading
of Masonic books. The traveling libraries are called for from all
parts of the State. A catalog of the 500 books in ·the Library has
been prepared, giving brief reviews to aid the inquiring.
A resolution was presented providing that the Grand Master,
Deputy Grand Master, and Grand Wardens shall not be eligible for
more than two years successively, except by unanimous vote of
Grand Lodge taken by ballot of the Annual Communicatio n. The
resolution was defeated.
A donation of $500 was made to the United Patriotic Home for
Orphans and Homeless Children, and one of $300 to the Strawbridge
Home for Boys, at Sykesville, Md.
Massachusetts:
The Masonic Home and Hospital is complete, and all bills are
paid. That is the pleasing and triumphant statement the Grand
· Master was able to make at this Communication. The completion
of the building program has extended over a pedod of two years,
during which time $508,000 have been expended in repairs, alterations, and new construction. Massachusetts has a Home and Hospital that perhaps cannot be duplicated as regards type, surroundings
and .construction. Every Mason is urged to visit Charlton and
Shrewsbury to see for · himself.
Thirty patients are reported as ·being in the Hospital, every one
suffering from a chronic or incurable disease, and for that reaso1i
not able to get into any other institution in the State and receive
adequate care. The Grand Master suggests that the Hospital facilities be reserved entirely for this type of sufferers.
At the Home are 67 men and 44 w omen. Brother Logee celebrated his 104th birthday at the Home and entered into the festivitie~
"with the enthusiasm of youth," so the Grand Master writes.

A proposition was submitted that any Lodge having 6?0 or m ?re .
embers shall elect 300 of its members to petitio n for ~ Dispensation
: form a separate L odge. The motion did not prevail. .
.
The Grand Master reports that ·calls for assistance ar~ 111creasmg
.
H fi d that grown-up children upon
at a rather alarm111g rate.
e n s
. .
f
h ir
"'hom devolves the primary responsibility of prov1d111g or t e'e
parents are shirking their dut.y in larger nu~b~rs tha~e~:\~~; ~~;y
in the ast L odges should impress upon t e1r mem
. .
P .
'bl
ti! the flesh a nd blood relations of the md1gent
0
~~:: ~ r::pt~:~~ f:l~:hare. Unless blood relatives of the distres~e.d
have their minds disabused of the notion that they canf bhuy t t~:
.
.
M
d be rid of the care O t em,
needy relatives 111to
asonry an
't If
hich will be above its
Craft will gather a burden upon I se w
strength to carry.
I hi
W .'.Brother J. Hugo Tatsch has been ·doi.ng most va ua. ~
. h . 'n to light many historical Masonic treasures wh1c
work 111 nngi g
h ·
1 e had not
d been relegated to storage rooms because : eir v~ u .
~:en suspected. Rare editions of early Masonic . publications dha;e
l~een rescued, properly classified and made ava1l~ble . to stu en s.
Th Grand Master believes that after the catalogu111g is complete~,
Ma:sachusetts will be found to have one of the finest Masonic
Libraries in the world, if not the best of them all.

0

Michigan:
has a "Craftsmen's Club" which is composed of stu. h'
M 1c 1gan
M' h'
Th
have a
dents in attendance at the University of
ic igan.
ey
d
Team which visits many Lodges through the year, un er
Dhegrleed h ' of "Uncle Bob" Campbell. The Grand Ma~ter holds
t e ea ers 1p
.
.
h
g men 111 contact
that it is a good thing and that it br111gs t. e youn
. h th
' th Lodges in Michigan and that they. will take home wit
em
:,' their different States a broader conception of Masonry because
of the contacts.
Minnesota:
J · H' h
Among the cornerstone layings reported is one of a umor ig
School.
One Lodged celebrated its seventy-fifth, and another its sixtieth,
anniversary.
Mississippi:
The Masonic Homes-Mississippi has two of them-appear to
be doing well.
·
Af
'd'
began the year whh 98 children.
ter
The one at M en 1an
· h 10?
some admissions and some withdrawals, the year closed wit
-·

120

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The four girls who were graduated have found pos.itio ns as teachers.
Eleven are now at college.
The Home at Columbus is taking care of 70 boys. There will
be three hi.g h school graduates this year and the two· boys now at
college are doing excellent work.
Grand Lodge maintains a unit at the Sanitarium for Tuberculars.
Misso·uri:
The St. Louis Lodges did a gracious thing when they chartered
a special train to visit the home Lodge of the Grand Master, as a
special mark of respect for him.
The family at the Masonic Home comprises 414 ; of these 141
are men, 140 women, 62 boys, and 71 girls. Besides these, five men,
eight women and one boy had been admitted but had not arrived.
The Committee on Charity reports that the maximum monthly
allowance granted to any applicant has been $25.00, such limitation
being necessitated by conditions.
Montana:
The Masonic Home had an average of about 45 residents during
the year : 32 men and 13 women.
New Jersey:
A per capita tax of five cents is levied annually on the members
for the support of the Grand Lodge Charity Fund. Every Lodge
pays 50 cents a year for each and every member toward the Masonic
Home and Charity Foundation. The latter also receives from the
Lodges $1.50 for every Brother raised to the degree of Master Mason.
A new provision was adopted reading as follows:
"Indigent or helpless Masons, their wives, widows and children
and the mother, sister or daughter of a deceased Master Mason,
provided such deceased Master Mason was, at the time of his death,
the chief support of such mother, sister or daughter, shall be eligible
for admission to such Home, or for aid and support from said charity
foundation."
Those receiving assistance in their own homes from the Charity
Foundation are four couples, 21 Master Masons, 17 widows, one adult
daughter and 14 children; a total of 57.
The family at the Masonic Home now consists of 153 adults
and 51 children. About 25 per cent of the older folks are at the
hospital or in need of medical aid.

121

New Mexico:
The work done by the Sojourners Club, under the auspices of
the Grand Lodge, at Fort Bayard, is bringing comfo~t to many
sufferers, of whom there arc 47 Brothers among the patients. at t~e
U. S. Veterans' Hospital at that pla&c. The Club was organized 1.n
December, 1920, by Masons who wanted to render some help to t~etr
less fortunate Brethren and comrades. Since then the undertaking
has been aided by Grand Lodge. Among the 369 ex-service men and
women hospitalized at Fort Bayard, there are 12 per cent-plus
Master Masons.
A similar work is carried on by t~e Relief and Trowel Club, at
Fort Stanton where 250 disabled seamen are receiving hospital care.
The Govern~ent supplies nothing but the hospital care, giving
neither clothing nor other comforts. The Brethren residing at Fort
Stanton did what they could to cheer the boys at the hospital. A
"Trowel Club" was formed of patients and employees w?o are
members of the Fraternity, as well as interested Masons outside the
Fraternity. Grand Lodge, Grand Chapter, and Grand Commandery
appropraited funds, Grand Lodge leading with $600, the total contribution amounting to $968.25 last year.
North Carolina:
During the past year approximately 200 young men and women
have obtained help from the Masonic Loan Fund to enable them to
pursue their educati~n in thirty-one colleges in the state. Hitherto
the policy has been to place at the disposal of. the .respective educ~­
tional schools a fixed amount each year, leavmg 1t to the authon. ties of the institutions to vote the loans, this practice having been
demonstrated to be more satisfactory. Still he believes that each
institution should be requested to supply an annual report regarding the status of its share of the fund and that the information
obtained be communicated to Grand Lodge annually.
The number of residents in the Masonic ·and Eastern Star Home
. was sixty-five on December 3·1, 1930.
North Dakota:
Three of the four Lodges warranted fifty years ago celebrated
their Golden Jubilee.
During the year bequests have been received amounting to
over $50,000.
The trustees report that aged and invalid Brethren of some of
the Lodges of the jurisdiction are now being cared for at county
farms and hospitals and that within the last year two Brethren had
died in state institutions, because no other proper care had been
p~ovided, and ,at . the present time the widow of the Past Grand

123

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

nEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Master is without the aid she ought to have, and that Grand
Lodge is now paying monthly stipends to several widows and
mothers of Master Masons who thereby are assured merely an
existence and not receiving such creature comforts as they ought
to have, the trustees of the foundation therefore have brought the
situation to the attention of Grand Lodge to the end that the various
Lodges and individual Brethren realize their duty more· fully.
A resolution was presented providing that the sum of fifty cents
be paid annually by every Master Mason, except life members, to
be collected with the regular dues and paid into the Grand Lodge
Relief Fund, the money derived from this source thereafter to be
available for the construction of a home or hospital for the proper
care of aged, invalid Masons in regular standing in a North Dakota
Lodge, as well as their dependents.
The indication is that the way is being prepared to have Grand
Lodge decide on the erection or purchase and maintenance of such
home or hospital.
Forty-six loans granted by the Education Foundation have
been repaid and eighty new grants made. The students aided thereby
are attending higher institutions of learning, some in and some out
of the state, also in business colleges, a school of music and a
school for nurses.

Texas: ·
The Grand Master sounds a warning to Grand Lodge that members suspended for non-payment of dues· ought not to be restored
automatically on payment of the outstanding dc;bt. He believes that
the law should be amended so that when a Brother has remained suspended for two years or more he shall not be restored to full fellowship on merely paying what he owes. At the Home for the Aged
there are indigents who got back just in time to be eligible for
entry. The same is true of the participation in relief provided for
Brothers a££licted with tuberculosis or other malignant diseases.
On desiring to return, after prolonged suspen!iion, he shall have to
be proposed and must be elected by unanimous ballot. No dues
shall be collected for the term for which a Brother shall have been
• suspended. Only the dues remaining unpaid, at the. time he was
dropped shall be required. But he must pass the ballot. The idea
is to fix firmly upon the Lodge the responsibility for any neglect
which may cause the Craft undue outlay of its already heavily
strained financial resources. Grand Lodge responded by adopting
a resolution reading as follows:
"Resolved, That hereafter when a Brother becomes suspended
for the non-payment of dues and remains so for the term of two
years or more he shall be required to make application to his Lodge
for reinstatement and pay dues up to the time of his suspension,
and no dues shall be collected by his Lodge for the time during
which he was suspended; and that he must be elected by a unanimous vote of the members of the Lodge present and voting."
The Masonic Home and School at Fort Worth has been deluged
with applications for admission during the year. Eighteen new
children were received. The total enrollme'nt has risen to 456.
The superintendent believes that it is imperative that children be not
sent to the home when they can be cared for elsewhere: A bequest
of $5,000 was received for the home and school.
The Grand Secretary was authorized to employ an expert Librarian to classify and catalogue books already acquired. A library
is to be organized as rapidly as possible.

122

Ohio:
The residents in the home numbered 437 during the year.
South Carolina:
There has been a campaign to raise funds for the erection of
an infirmary unit at the Hospital for Tuberculars at State Park.
While the results did not come up to expectations, subscriptions
were received amounting to about $41,000. The amount was not
sufficient to complete the building as was originally planned. About
$5,000 more are needed. Meanwhile; one wing was omitted and the
rest of the work completed. The campaign has been of much
benefit to the Craft in that it emphasized anew that Masonic Lodges
are not mutual insurance organizations, guaranteeing a member
against hard luck. It had the further effect that the "cheap" members withdrew from the Craft and left it that much stronger for
their going.
T ennessee:
The home has 161 residents: 27 women, 73 girls and 61 boys.
Three hundred and thirty persons have been beneficiaries of the
Outside Maintenance Fund during the year: 39 men, 78 women, 117
girls and 96 boys.

U tah :
When the Grand Master visited the· Lodge at Milford he found
that four Brethren had traveled eighty miles to be present ; and at
another rural place it was not unusual to have Brethren come
from a distance of fifty miles.
A 'Good Citizenship Mass Meeting" was held to stimulate
interest in civic affairs.

125

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPON:OENCE

A Masonic Foundjltion Fund has been formed and organized,
and articles of incorporation have been filed. Three special contributions were received during the year, one of $100, one of $500
and one of $1,000.

.Home, by placing an assessment of $2 per annum on each member,
did not pass, although most of the Brethren appear to be in hearty
accord with the plan.

124

V ermont:
The Committee appointed to report on the feasibility of establishing and maintaining a Masonic Home, made a careful study of
the situation and believes that action should be taken. The pl~n
is to acquire a home fo accommodate from thirty-five to forty
residents. No start should be made till after the money is in hand.
The present Charity Fund should not be depleted for the purchase
of plant and equipment, for that fund will be needed and should
be continued to take care of those who cannot be accommodated
in a home. The first investment for the home, not including hospital features, is figured .at above $50,000 and the annual maintenance at an excess of $20,000 per year. The cost of the plant is
figured at $3 per capita on the existing membership. The maintenance cost is expected to be over $1 per capita a year.
In order to get the proposition under way, the Committee recommended a levy of an assessment in the amount of seventy-five
cents per capita annually for five years; that the monies be kept in
a separate fund to be known as the "Masonic .Home Building Fund";
that the fund be kept intact until it amounts to $40,000.
Virginia:
The fund for the higher education of children of the Masonic
Home is a splendid idea. The Grand Chapter and the Grand Commandery paid $2,000 a year each. The recommendation is made
that Grand Lodge pay $4,000 a year from the general fund to be
applied toward paying expenses of graduates of the Masonic Home
in college during the first and second years, and that loans be extended to the children in their third and fourth years.
The George W. Wright Memorial Tubercular Pavilion at Blue
Ridge continues to minister ~o the comfort of the Brethren ancl
their families located there. During the year a total of 117 occupied
· the pavilion. Of these sixty-two were discharged as cured or arrested, two died, fifty-three remained. Every section of the state
is represented among the patients who come from fifty-eight different Lodges.
The recommendation by the Grand Master that a beginning
be made in collecting funds for the establishment of an Old Folks'

W ashiitgt on:
.
The W.". Master of every Lodge was asked to prepare and deliver a twenty-minute talk on " Fundamentals of Freemasonry" ; each
Senior Warden, on "Masonry in the Revolutionary Period" ; each
Junior Warden, on the "Symbolism of the First Degree." .
It is a · fundamentally sound plan. The point is to get the membership . interested to want to know and then help by supplying the
desired information. Trying to force good things on adults is not
generally a popular procedure. It is like making children eat spinach
because it is "good" for them. The latter may, have to yield; our
own Brethren feel they are free Masons.
During the year the rules for admission to the Home have been
. revised and other improvements introduced to better meet the needs
of that institution. The Grand Master finds that the membership
is distributed rather unevenly. One Lodge in the state has ten per
cent of the resident s to its record. Here is a point not often inquired
into. The membership of the home increased about twenty per cent ·
during the year. On June 1, 1930, there was a total of t17: 56
women and 75 men. Monthly grants were made to eight women and
19 men outside of the home, and increased allowances to four
women and two men. The Board of Trustees finds the allowance
plan preferable in that it allows the Brethren and Sisters to remain
in their accustomed surroundings and with their old friends.
The "Washington Monitor" has been carefully revised and a
new edition made available.
West Virginia:
The Grand Master reports that West Virginia has had its shan •
of annoyance by invasion of its Jurisdiction by clandestines headed
by the notorious George C. Phillips w ith his " Grand L odge" a nd
Supreme Council. The Secretary of State issued a charter to such a
Supreme Council of the 33° , with rights to confer t he Symbolic
Degrees also. The Grand Master tells the story of how "these
racketeers of the organizing department grew more bold all the
time" until three young men who considered themselves defrauded
had them arrested. One of the regular Lodges in the state ignorantly
permitted a clandestine Mason made in Ohio to be affiliated with it,
because, it seems, there are no regulations by which such step can
be averted. The affiliated Mason was put out and declared "illegally
made and not en titled to any Masonic rights and privileges."

126

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The number of residents in the Maso~ic Home was 91 at the ·
close of the year, an increase of 19 over the preceding year. There
were 18 men, 10 women, 33 boys and 30 girls.
Philippine Islands :
The Cabletow is a well edited, most helpful Masonic periodical
published under the auspices ·o f Grand Lodge. W:. Brother Leo
Fischer is the moving spirit back of it and has made the periodical ·
a welcome informant concerning Masonic affairs in the Philippine
I stands.
The Committee on History hereafter will submit each year a
report concerning the rise of Masonry in the Philippines and the
Orient.
Porto Rico:
The office of Grand Historian was created. The duty of the
incumbent is to report at each Annual Communication the results
of his studies and researches during the year.
A his tory of Masonry in PGrto R ico is to be prepared. The
Brethren are asked to send all dates and documents in their possession which have any bearing on early beginnings. The Grand Historian is to have charge of all such historical material and to present
reports thereon from time to time.
A general appeal has been made for support of the organization
which supplies shoes to poor children, known as "El Zapato de los
Ninos Pobres," to extend its benefits to localities heretofore not included in its list.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

127

British Columbia:
In arranging his official visits the Grand Master gave the preference to the Lodges furtherest away from the centers of population, especially such as had not been visited by Grand Masters in
recent years.
Ontario, Canada:
The great achievement in connection with the celebration of
' the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Grand L odge was the raising
of a Memorial Benefit Fund. The goal had been set at $250,000.
Voluntary subscriptions broug ht it up !o $330,000. A first legacy,
in the form of a bequest of $2,148 from the estate of the late Brother
Isaacs Smith Warde!, also is recorded.
In a special word of greeting to the honored guests, the Grand
Master paid a tribute of loyalty and affection to the three mother
Grand Lodges.
Manitoba:
After th e Aged and Indigent Masons Fund, which in 1917 had
to its credit $38,COO, had grown to the sum of $76,000, Grand Lodge
established its present benevolent fund which now has a capital of
approximately $200,000. Since its inception in 1917 the Committee
having charge of it has distributed upward of $96,000 in extending
relief to needy Masons, widows and o"phans. All this is outside of
the relief generously given by several L odges.
A Masonic Essay Competition was held. Three subjects were
announced: 1, The history of Masonry, in the writer's community
and district. 2, The place and possibilities of Masonry as a n influence
for world peace. 3, The meaning of the Third Degree.

Alberta, Canada:
The Grand Master traveled 10,059 miles during the year in the
performance of his Masonic duties.
The Committte on Benevolence reports that its total assets are
$170,328.01. The fund was established to assist the Lodges in meeting the dema nds. made upon them for relief. The report indicates
that Lodges often assume a greater burden than it is wise for them
to shoulder. A case is cited where the suffering individual should
have been taken care of by the municipality in which he resides.
In other words, the Lodge need not interpret its charitable duties
beyond the point of the particular care of those who cannot be provided for by the agencies upon which they have first claim. The
Lodge is not to duplicate but primarily to step in where other agencies prove ineffective or unavailable.

Nova Scotia:
Grand Lodge reinforced its form er rulings regarding lotteries
by resolving that " the introduction of any such unlawful feature at
fairs, bazaars or by any other l'n eans whether under the direct auspices of Lodges or otherwise, shall constitute a violation of our
Constitution and be dealt with as provided for the corr ection of
such offenses."
Prince Edward Island:
Report was made of a child between four and five years of age,
the orphan daughter of a Mason, which is a partial cripple and in
need of treatment. The appeal to the heart r esulted in an amendment
that 25 cents per capita be added to the Benevolent Fund and held
as a separate account for the relief of or phans of Masons.

128

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Saskatchewan:
Speaking of the Benevolent Fund the Grand Master reported
that the principal now had reached the sum of $253,483 which last
year produced an interest income of $12,569. Ten thousand three
hundred and twenty-three dollars w ere applied to the purposes for
which the fund was established. The serious problem of the trustees
at the present time, according to his statement, is how to distribute
the interest income equitably among the ever increasing number
of worthy applicants. The amounts given in most cases are too small
to afford the needed relief. Everything points to the desirability
of increasing the principal so as to assure a larger return.
Cuba:
As reported last year, Grand Lodge voted that a Supreme
Court of Masonic Justice be established. In order to carry the plan
into effect, it was found necessary to modify the Constitution somewhat. The tribunal is now in operation. It consists of a president,
a secretary and two special term courts, each with a president and
two additional judges. Seven substitute judges also have heen
selected.
Grand Lodge is endeavoring, despite existing conditions, to raise
funds to build its Temple on the grounds so generously granted
it by the Cuban Government, of which due mention was made in
our report last year. The investments of .Grand Lodge at present
amount to $200,000 and the value of the land granted by the Government is estimated to be no less than $300,000. On the strength
of this, Grand Lodge intends to form a corporation and borrow
half a million dollars for construction purposes. If the plans are
carried out as designed, the Craft will have a magnificent Masonic
Temple in Havana, which is to be devoted to Masonry and contain also a public library and an ·elementary school. The structure
will be of either Cuban colonial type or early English Renaissance
style. The formei: is favored by many for national reasons and the
latter, because England is the mother of Cuban Masonry.
Th_e w ork of the Auxilio Masonico (Masonic Relief), in its two
_years of operations, disbursed approximately $108,300 for funeral
expenses of deceased and relief to dependents. Its capital today is
about $35,000..
Guatemala:
The Grand Lodge of Guatemala has under its Jurisdiction 25
Symbolic Lodges, of which 20 work in the Old Scottish Rite, according to the Spanish Ritual, and conduct business outside of degree
work entirely on the First Degree.
·

REPO RT ON CO_R~ESPONDENCE

129

The oldest L odge in the country (Union No. 1), works in English. The most recently formed orie is German-speaking. Both
work according to the Rite followed in New York. U nion No. 1
was in existence long before Grand Lodge.
· The work of the Grand Master is not an easy one. He is expected to visit as rl}any Lodges as possible. The Lodges are scattered air over the Republic, and travel communication often is very
difficult.
As the population is over 90 per cent firmly devoted to the
Roman Catholic Church, Freemasonry can never be numerically
strong. It does not seek in any way to play a figure in political
affairs, which is fortunate to the Craft in keeping it closer to the
landmarks than otherwise might be the case.
Chile, South America:
Practically all the Lodges have taken hold of some outside work
and given it individual support. Among such agencies are the Boy
Scouts, the Students' Colonies, a popular University of Labor, the
anti-Alcohol Movement, Night Schools, Societies of Poor Students,
School Breakfasts for Underfed Children, Kindergartens and many
other .worthy enterprises.
Grand Lodge has published a monumental his tory on "Freemasonry in Chile."
On June 21 the contents of the offices of Grand Lodge were
completely destroyed by_fire. Furniture, equipment and a number
of books were consumed. The principal archives were saved, although in a condition somewhat deteriorated by water. Thanks to
the co~operation of helpful Brethren, the offices have been repaired
and are serving their purposes again.
New South Wales:
A Welfare Fund has been established to e~list the interest of
all Brethren as guardians of the children at the Willi.a m Thompson
Masonic Schools and the Masonic Hostel, after they go out in.to
the world to earn their ow n living. The plan is to have all take an
interest in placing the .g raduates in suitable positions; to secure
suitable homes for them and support them financially until they
are in a position to maintain themselves ; to assist any who show
the necessary qualifications to pursue college or university studies.
The Brethren of the Fund also pledge themselves to duty toward
ihe children while at the Masonic School-by providing railway
fares and other facilities
mothers or guardians to be with their
children at the Homes in case of serious illness; by supplying a

for

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOR'r ON CORRESPONDENCE

vacation home for children who have no suitable place to go to
during vacation; by supplying books, prizes, sports material and occasional entertainment for the children's leisure time, etc.
When the Fund was inaugurated there were seventy~two children. Now there are 348 at the schools and 145 have started on their
career as wage earners. This means that 493 children and young
people offer opportunity to the Brethren to be helpful.

in our money. The total cost for printing and other expenses connected with the collection and distribution amounted to only £5.
The number of the Masons and their families in the flood district
was really seventy-three, including Brethren, mothers, widows,
daughters or sisters of Masons. Twelve of these were able to provide
for themselves. The loss in essential goods of the remaining sixtyone was made up in full. The balance of the money was distributed
pro rata for loss' sustained on non-essentials, such as musical instruments, pictures, books, ornaments, etc.
Dorset Lodge, No. 17, has formed a Committee to act in an
advisory capacity to immigrant Masons arriving in the District
with the object of settling on the land, or engaging in other pursuits. Their benevolent plan is to .g ive advice to Brethren in all
matters relating to whatever occupation they might wish to follow,
and to assist them in every possible way by passing on to them
the benefit of the knowledge and experience in local conditions
possessed by the Committee. The Board of General Purposes was
impressed so favorably by the action that it notified all th e Lodges
of the Jurisdiction of the plan and commended consideration of the
advisability of ·taking similar action in their particular districts.
The Grand Master announces that there now remain in the
whole Jurisdiction only three Lodges which have not Lodge rooms
of their own.

130

New Zealand :
Over £6,312 were pa id out in annuities during the year from
the Widows and Orphans and Aged Masons' Fund.
Queensland:
· After much debate at preceding Quarterly Communications it
was voted "That Grand Lodge can not, under · any circumstances,
allow anyone of its ·m embers to join the Order of the Eastern Star
as a Freemason." All Lodges have been instructed that no member
as a Freemason can join an association where women are admitted
as members.
In a past report we referred to what is known as the Ballot
Committee. This passes upon all applicants for initiation before the
Lodge can proceed to admit them. By this means the Lodges have
an additional protection and are kept to their prime duty in passing upon the merits of a candidate. Applications for affiliation also
have to be submitted. Further · duties appear to be to examine
petitions to establish new Lodges, to see that all conditions of the
Constitution have been complied with and to make such recommendations as may be deemed desirable. The number of applications examined ran into the . thousands during the year. Oft.e n
application forms have to be returned for correction and further
information. A " Reject Register" is kept for the entry of applicants
not admitted. No information is supplied to anyone concerning a
rejected candidate. The Reject Register is kept for the guidance
of the Committee exclusively.
Tasmania:
The Grand Master in his address refers to the wide-spread
distress inflicted upon the state by devastating floods in April, 1929.
Many Brethren were deprived of their homes and left in straitened
circumstances. The membership of the Grand Lodge responded
promptly and wholeheartedly to calls for relief. Over two thousand
pounds were contributed and distributed among sixty-one Brethren
and their dependents. The total .in fact amounted to about $12,000

131

Victoria:
Grand Lodge has set out to establish a Freemasons' Intermediate
Hospital and Nursing Home. The Lodges have been asked to raise
£75,000 towards it. Grand Lodge has voted to contribute £5,000 a
year for four years. The hospital will be erected on a site chosen
at ~righton, consisting of over twenty-1i.ve acres.
Grand Lodge maintains a King Edward VII Memorial Scholarship Fund. The seventeenth annual examination of candidates took
place in December, 1929. Of the 115 young people who competed
the three obtaining the highest marks were awarded scholarships.
The awards made by the Board of Benevolence to indigent
Brethren and widows appear to aggregate in our money about $22,000 a year. Six hundred and fifty dollars were paid out for funeral
expenses, and approximately $10,COO for the maintenance and education of children.
A check for upward of $2,600 was received from the estate of
Past Grand Master William McCleary as a bequest to the King
Edward VII Memorial Scholarship Fund. The amount has been set
aside for a "William McCleary Scholarship" and conditions have
been formulated for its administration.

132

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Scotland :
The Grand Lodge of S~otland has called upon the members of
their Lodges to abstain from proposing or admitting to Freemasonry,
any men who are about to emigrate b'efore they can possibly have
become grounded in the principles · of the Craft and have been instructed adequately as to the duties <!evolving upon them as Master
Masons.
Brethren who have decided. to emigrate to any of the Dominions
of the British Empire, are to be furnished by their respective Lodge
Secretary, with the addresses of the appropriate District Grand
Lodges, where such exist, under the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and
to be advised to seek affiliation with one or the other of the Lodges
there. The addresses of District Grand Lodges and District Grand
Secretaries may be obtained from the office of the Grand Secretary,
at Freemasons Hall, Edinburgh.
The Brethren ar e to be told plainly life membership of their
Mother Lodge does not include active membership of other Lodges,
and that in order to acquire membership with Lodges in the Domin'ions, together with all the rights and privileges pertaining thereto,
they must acquire affiliation with such Lodges.
Grand Secretary Winning informs us that, while the notice sent
out by Grand Lodge refers only to the Dominions, it applies, most
assuredly, also to all other countries where Scots Masons may settle,
more particularly those holding Life Membership certificates.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

133

APPENDIX
CHAI RMEN OF THE COMMITTEES ON
CORRESPO N DENCE
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORN IA
John ·H. Gihon, California No. 1, 1850.
Grand Secretary 1850, Druggist, Author of Annals of San Francisco. Opened a book store in the Masonic Temple. Died during
the War in Louisiana.
Levi Stowell, California No. 1, 1851-1855. 5 years.
Carpenter. First Master of California No. 1, Grand Secretary
1851-1855.
Alex G. Abell, California No. 1, 1856-1860. 5 years.
Grand Secretary 1856-1889. 34 years.
James L. English, Sacramento No. 40, 1861.
First Master of Lodge. Attorney, State Treasurer 1856.
William C. Belcher, Corinthian No. 69. 1862.
Grand Master 1862-1864.
Gilbert B. Clairborne, San Joaquin No. 19. 1863-1864. 2 years.
Grand Master 1865-1866.
Henry H. Rhees, Marysville No. 9, 1865- 1866. 2 years.
Lawrence C. Owens, Golden Gate No. 30, 1867.
Served for a number of years as Assistant Grand Secretary.
William H. Hill, Marin No. 191, 1868-1873, 1876-1882, 1884, 1887.
15 years.
Printed a paper in Albany, N. Y. Episcopal minister. Chaplain
at San Quentin Prison, County Superintendent of Schools at
Sacramento. As Grand Chaplain delivered eulogy over Thomas
Starr King.
William H. January, San Jose No. 10, 1874-1875. 2 years.
Printer in 1849, State Treasurer 1883-1884. Tax Collector for a
number of yea rs of· Santa Clara County.
Thomas H. B. Anderson, L os Palmas No. 366. 1883.
Minister at Fresno. Served as Grand Chaplain.

134

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Jam es W. Anderson, Pacific No. i36, 1885-i886, 1888-1889, 1893.
5 years.
Grand Lecturer, 1889. State Superintendent of Public Instruction,
1890. Author .Anderson's Digest, etc., of California. Grand Lodge
laws.
William A. Robertson, King Solomon No. 260, 1890.
Teacher, Lincoln Grammar School, San Francisco.

William H. Edw~rds, Pacific No. 136, 1892.
School teacher. Grand Lecturer, 1896-1906.
William A. Davies, San Joaquin No. 19, 1894-1906. 13 years.
County Clerk, San Francisco. Grand Master, 1867. Prominent
in Knights Templar.
James B. Stevens, Yount No. 12, 1907.
Grand Master 1894. United States ·Customs Service.
Alonzo J. Munroe, Humboldt No. 79, 1908.
Grand Master 1911. Attorney.
Edward H. Hart, Live Oak No. 61, 1909-1917. 9 years.
Grand Master 1906. General Agent Insurance Company.
John D. Murphey, Alta No. 333, 1918.
Grand Master 1913. Superior Judge Alameda County.
John Franklin West, Pasadena No. 272, 1922.
Teacher.

Jesse M. Whited, California No. 1; 1919-1921, 1923-1924, 1926-193.1.
11 years.
Insurance Manager.

*

*

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are
generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly
speaking, they should be termed the American Rite and t he Scottish
Rite, for the one commonly called York is peculiar in its organized
proceedings only to the United States.

*

The symbolic degrees are conferred in a lodge and are the
Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They
are called Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction is
by symbols.
The ·Capitular -degrees are conferred in a Chapter and are the
Mark Master, the Past Master, the Most ~xcellent Mast er and the
Royal Arch. The supplemental and honorary degrees of High Priesthood is conferred in a Council of High Priests upon those who have
been regularly elected to preside over a, Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons. They are called Capitular because they are conferred in a
Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning "done in a Chapter."
The Cryptic degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the
· Royal Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called "Cryptic" because the word "crypt" means a secret
vault or underground passage.
.
The Templar degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name K~ight Templar comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take the
temple at Jerusalem from the Mohammedans.

James Lewis Matthews, Covina No. 334, 1925.
Newspaper Editor.

*

135

The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar degrees.

Jam es M. Ellis, Fidelity No. 120, 1891.

*

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

*

Twenty-three have held the position.
Three Grand Secretaries served on this Committee.
Seven Past Grand Masters.
Two Grand Lecturers.
William H. Hill was appointed for 1888, but on account of tye
trouble James W. Anderson wrote the report.
James B. Stevens made no report while Chairman in 1907.
Term of Service-Hills, IS years; Davies, 13 years; Whited, 11
years; Hart, 9 years; Stowell, Abell and Anderson, 5 years each.

The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the
33rd, inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States
(which includes all territory south of the Ohio River an d west of
the Mississippi River) the organization of the different bodies, and
the degrees conferred by them, are: Lodge .o f Perfection, 4° to 14°,
inclusive; Chapter. Rose Croix, 15° to 18° ; Council of Kadosh, 19°
to 30° Consistory, 31° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°;
In the Northern Jurisdiction (w hich includes all States north of
the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River) the degrees conferred are: Lo<lge of Perfection, 4 ° to 14 °, inclusive; Council Princes
of Jerusalem, 15° and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and 18°; Consistory, 19° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.

137

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS-MONTH OF MEETING

MASONIC CALENDAR

January-Minnesota, North Carolina, Tennessee, Uta'h, Philippine Islands.

Ancient Craft Masons~Commence their era with the creation of
th~ world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L.), "in the year of light."

136

February-Arizona, Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi,
Oklahoma, Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.
March-Cuba, New Mexico, South Carolina.
April-Florida, New Jersey, South Australia, Mexico (York),
Porto Rico.
May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York,
Rhode Island, New Zealand, Western Australia.
June-Iowa, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South
Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba,
Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan, Queensland.
July-Canada, New South Wales.
August-Montana, Wyoming, New Brunswick.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri.
October-California, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio,
West Virginia. ·
November-Arkansas, Maryland, Wisconsin.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania, Ireland.

Add 4000 years to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 4000--5923.
Scottish Rite-Same as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chroc
nology is used. Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
Add 3760 to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 3760--5683~ After
September add another year.
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the year the second temple was
commenced by Zerubbabel, Anno Inventionis. (A. Inv.)., "in the year
of discovery."
Add 530. years to the vulgar era. Thus: 1923 and 530-2453.
Royal 'and Select Masters-Date from the year in which the
Temple of Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.) ,:
"in the year of the deposit."
·
Add 1000 to the common time. Thus: 1923 and 1000--2923.
Knights Templar-Commence their era with the organization
of their order. 4.nno Ordinis (A. 0.), "in the year of the Order."
. From the · Christian era take 1118. .Thus: 1118 from 1923-805.
Order of High Priesthood-Dates from the year of the blessing
of Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Benedictionis
(A. B.), "in the year of the blessing."
To the Christian era add 1913, the year of blessing.. Thus: 1923
anq 1913--3836.

139

REPORT ON CORRES:PONDE'NCE

138

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

FOREIGN GRAND BODIES

CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL APPENDIX
Prepared by ALBERT K. WILSON, Grand Secretary Emeritus and Grand
Recorder Emeritus, Kansas Correspondent. February, 1931. .

Alaban1a ................................................
Arizona ..................................................
Arkansas ............................................... .

California ............................................. .
Colorado' ................................................
Connectlcut ..........................................
Delaware ............................................. .

District of Columbia........................... .
Florida .., .............................................. .
Georgia ................................................. .
Idaho ......................................................
Illinois ..................................................
Indiana ·····························-·················..
low a ······················································~
Kansas ................................................... ..

h~~1~~~~. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

Maryland ...............................................
Massachusetts ......................................
and }{bode ls!.......... .

~?SS?chusetts

lChtgan .....................u•••····················•

a1=r~~:~~~_.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Montana •........................•.•....................•
Nebraska ...............................................
Nevada .................................................. .
New Hampshire ..................................•

~!: ~~~i~o ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::

New York .............................................
North Carolina .....................................
North Dakota ...................................... .
Ohio ........................................................
Oklahoma ............................................ .

~;~~~~l~~;;j~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Rhode Island .......................................
South Carolina .....................................
Sou th Dakota .......................................
Tennessee ............. .................................

Texas .................................................... .
Utah .......................................................

~i:;r::i~t ..:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
~~~irzyi~°gjn·i~--·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

\V isconsin ............................................ .
\Vyoming ....................•.........................•

Grand
Lodge

Grand
Chapter

Grand
Council

Grand
Comd'y.

Sl,433
6,612 .
36,695
142,062
33,982
46,046
6,154
23,352
31,262
65,588
10,390
294,011
129,990
86,tlll
80,938
62,087
32,841
44,002
33,999
124,361

12,866
1,371
7,636
26,756
7,820
16,657
1,887
6,003
7,734
15,438
2,591
86,965
32,476
21,905
19,381
16,992
8,305
17,444
9,840
40,932

4,266
540
1,480
9,928
2.366
10,704
229
1,496
1,867
5,445

7,810
753
2,67tJ
14,836
4,642
6,629

151,734
61,766
35,301
113,171
20,905
42,150
3,059

46,161
16,759
7,156
32,217
4,867
8,336
670
5,603
20,152
2,008
70,958
7,426
3,854
80,029
12,569
6,914
61,575
10,130
4,998
5,624
10,528
42,875
1,300
5,870
17,634
9,222
11,938
26,381
2,253

96;157

7,047
343,744
40,307
15,446
206,720
68,871
30,742
214,195
19,132
29,032
19,885
50,067
138,096
5,174
19,672
48,812
49,135
34,533
62,338
8,473

24,741
19,458
6,53J
5,644
4,333
1,669
8,420
4,944
15,228
14,616
3,101
4,029
10,928
900
3,325
140
3,443
.4,030
12,827
2,042
936
45,421
4,736
2,095
14,923
5,890
3,445
1,371
2,550
39,836
458
1,820

·2;925
·9;795

·3;ii2

5,40l
7,284
1,596
35,649
13,022
ll,3J o
13,955
8,386
3,1 41
9,449
4,800
25,712
15,638
7,670
3,734
16,002
2,562
4,396,
303
3,242
7,670
1,369
37,299
5,083
2,260
33,948
7,236
3,767
42,495
3,435
3,514
4,851
18,025
919
3,541
7,348
5,045
6,830
11,426
1,570
441,520

Totals ....................... .................. ... 3,277,480
General Grand Chapter
Subordinates .............................
General Grand Council
Subordinates .............................
Grand Encampment Subordinates

897,006

United States Totals ..................... 3,277,480
Foreign Totals......•........... ............. 1,110,321

899,053
165,258

326,419
2,221

443,763
16.278

Grand Totals ................................ 4,387,801

1,064,311

328,640

460,041

324,873

2,047
1,546
2,243

Alberta ........................•........................•
British Columbia.....••.............................
Canada ···················-·····························
Chile .................................................... .

~~~~'.:'blti~;··c:· ..i..:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::
Cuba ..................................................... .
Ecuador ........~...................., ................r.

Grand
Lodge

Grand
Chapter

Grand
Council

14,047
15,455
114,237
5,800
908
343

2,809
2,756
26,141

····:s62

13.m

Grand
Comd'y.
12,170

*370,000

·s2;oiiii

606
50,000
12,253

•is;iiiiii

927
6,051
67,273
26,227
9,958
394
630
6,646
1,242
5,000
15,512
21,951
141
14,867
t260,000
14,576
4,036
48,780
8,508

•i:;597

Totals ............................................ 1,110,321
United States Tot als .................... 3,2~

165,258
899,053

2,221
326,419

16,278
443,763

Grand Totals..•............................... 4,387,801

1,064,31 1

328,640

460,041

~~:;~11:;;!_-.-~~!~~~:::::::::::: : : : :·: ·:·:·:·: ·:::
I reland ····················-····'·············..··•·····
Manitoba ..•...............•...•.........................
Mant1me rrov1nces ............................
Mexico (York Grand Lodge) ........... .
New Brunswick ................................... .
New South Wales.............................. ..
New Zealand..................................... .....
Nova Scotia..........................................
Panama .................... u····························
Peru ....................................................... .
Philippine Islands ................................
.Prince Edward Island ..........................
Puerto Rico ........................................... .

~~~t~~:~d~:_:::i:::::::::::::::::.:·::::::.:::_:_:_::_:::.::.:
.......................................
Scotland ..............................................
South Australia..................................... .

~askatchewan

it~~~Ciia ..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Western. Australia.............................:··

~proximate membership.

tNo record of membership kept.

1,820

0

960

4,108

····;;99

3,831
4,118
2,572

3.m

·2;632
t ..........

·4;569
904

140

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ltEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MASONIC STATISTICS

MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS OF GRAND LODGES

· The figures for t~e United States and Canada represen t the annual compilation
of Ma~omc members hip statistics by the Grand L odge Bulletin, Cedar Rapids, Iowa,
as derived from figures submitted by the various Grand Secretaries o r taken from
the official publications of Grand Lodges. W hile the total mem bership of the Frater ·
nit~ has slightly increased , it will be observed that thirty-one Grand Lodges of the
pn1ted St~tes and none in Ca~ada show a decrease, where last year there were eighteerl
m the Untted States and one in Canada showmg losses. ·
·
The tables for Latin America Australia , Great Britain and lreland and -Continental Europe are from the excellent Report on Correspondence o f N eV: York, for
1929.

COMPARATIVE STATISTICS OF GRAND LODGES IN
UNITED ST ATES
Year-

L odges

Members

Increase

1925
1926
19.27
1928
1929
1930
1931

16,330
16,442
16,465
16,536
16,529
16, 579
16, 416

3,107,229
3,166,177
3,226,774
3,273,495
3,303,629
3,304,305
3,287,1S3

135,S67
58,958
60,S97
46,721
30,134
676
•11 ,152·

141

1.-UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Increase or
Lodges

Membership

Decn~ase*

48,3S4
6,685
38,420x:
142,062
33,982
46,351
6,154
23,161
29,892
61,859
10,390
294,011
129,380
85,395
80,938
60,760
31,178
43,884
34,21S
124,705
lS0,107
61,378
33,804
113,171
20,913
42,027
3,059
lS,465
97,048
7,122
34S,986
39,466
lS,446
209,707
66,S06
30,623
214,600
19,132
28,092
19,838
49,6SS
137,740
5,196
19,672
48,S83
48,994
34,534
62,S88
8,473
6,4S2

3,079*
73
580*
3,410
372
305

Nebraska ..................................... Dec. 31. 1930
Nevada ...................................- ... April lS, 1930
New H ampshire.......................: May 21, 1930
New Jersey ................................ D ec. 31, 1930
New M exico ...............................D ec. 31, 1930
New York .................................. Dec. 31, 1930
North Carolina ................ ......... June 30, 1930
North Dakota ...................... ...... Dec. 31 , 1929
Ohio ............................................. July 31, 1930
Oklahoma .....................................J an. 1, 1931
O r egon ...............·..........................J an. 1. 1931
Pennsylvania ............................... D ec. 27, 1930
Rhode Island ..............................May 1, 1930
South Carolina ...........................Jan. 1, 1931
South Dakota .......... .................. June 1, 1931
Tennessee ............ :.: .....................Oct. 31 , 1930
Texas ...... ...................:.........•....... J une 24, 1930
Utah ............................................ D ec. 27, 1930
Vermont ...................................... May 1, 1930
Virginia ...... ................: ................ May 26, 1931
Washington ............ .................... Dec. 31 , 1930
West Virginia ............................ Aug. 31 , 1930
Wisconsin ................................... Dec. 31, 1930
Wyoming ...... .............................. Aug. 27, 1930
Philippine Islands ..................... J an. 29, 1931

S6S
38
496
580
148
128
22
44
250
584
80
1,013
5S6
S57
449
S79
26S
207
123
327
507
310
381
6S6
136
292
23
81
274
S7
1,023
400
129
617
450
172
S68
43
286
179
4Sl
990
26
103
3S4
266
"167
312
49
103

x 19 lodges n ot reported.

16,416

3,287,1S3

26,621 *
9,469

Net Decrease

17,152*

States

Date

Alabama ..... :.................. ............ .. Sept. lS, 1930
Arizona ...................................... .. Dec. 31, 1930
Arkansas ........................ ............. Oct. 1, 1930
California .................. ...... ........... . July 31, 1930
Colorado .............................. ........June 30, 1930

ii~l..'1~~~~~-·-·::.·.·.···_·_·_·_·_·_-_·_·_·__·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·:.·:.·.·.·fue~~ ~!: ~~~g

Dist. of Columbia .................. ... Sept. 30, 1930

?l~t-~::_: : : _: _:_: _:_:_:_::::_:::_::_:_:_: _: :_::::_:_:_:_:~u~ 1~: mg
Illinois ..... ............ ........................ June 30, 1930
Indiana ........................................Dec. 31 , 1930
Iowa .................... ............ ............. Dec. 31, 1930
Kansas ........... ..............................Dec. 31 , 1930

~~~i~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~tlfi. f!!!1

Maryland ..................................... Nov. 19, 1930
Massachusetts ............ ............ .... Aug. 31 , 1930
93
'31'. 19\0

m~~i:.~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::B'~~-

a~1t~r~~:_:_: : _:_: ::_:_:_:_:_:~_:_::_:_: _:_:_: _:_:_:_::_J~?~

tt iU8

so

191*
1,370*
3,729*

so

198*
610*
616*
1,283*
),327*
1,6S3*
117*
216
295*
1,789*
388*
1,499*
620*
8
123*
·20
21•
891
75
427*
1,902*
24*
~ , 987

,365*
15*
405
111
984*
24*
412*
3S6*
19
114
329*
125*
l

250
112
194*

AUSTRALASIA

MEMBERSHIP ST A TIS TICS OF
FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS

Membership

West Australia ..........................•...........................

.S82
300
350
148
44
462
134

69,229
26,954
21,951
15,043
4,024
50,725
8,897

1,956
727
951
467
60
1,945
389

T otal for Australasia ....................................

2,020

196,82J

6,495

New ,South Wale•-----·--······································
New Zealand ..........................................................
Queensland ..........................................................
South Australia....................................................

ii~~~f:iia__:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::

CANADA
Grand Lodge

Date

Lodges

Membership

Increase or
Decrease*

156
115
106
43
82
567
15
92
199

14,211
15,577
12,482
6,057
9,973
117,000
1,242
16, 114
14,952

459
141
229
1
21
2,763
16
292
85

1,375

207,608
Net Gain

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND
Grand Lodges ,

4,007
4.007

LATIN AMERICAN REPUBLICS
Grand Lodges

- Number of
Lodges

Membership

1 Year's
Net Gain

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___.:~~~~

Mexico
York Grand Lod17e ......................................
Central America ·and West Indies
Costa Rica.................•.....................................
Cuba ................................................................
(iuate1nala ..................................................... .

l Year's
Net Gain

Number of
L odges

Grand Lodges

(Gathered from Latest Reports Received by the Committee on Correspondence of New York, 1931)

Alherta........................................ Dec. 31, 1930
British Columbia .....................•.Dec. 31, 1930
Manitoba .................................•... Dec. 31, 1930
New Brunswick.........................Dec. 27, 1929
Nova Scotia............................•.. March 31, 1931
Ontario ........................................Dec. 31, 1930
Prince Edward Island .............April JO, 1930
Quebec ..• ..................................... Dec. 31, 1930
Saskatchewan............................•Feb. 28, 1931

143

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

142

12

937

.. , 12

6
· 190
19

363
13,516
500•
370
230

20
338

Panama ..........................................................
9
Salvador : Cuscatlan......................................
4
South America
Chile ........................................... .....................
77
5,ooo•
Ecuador ..............•...•...............................-. ......
8
603
Peru .................................................... ........... .
25
2,000•
Reliable Up·to-date statistics of other LatinAmerican countries could not be obtained.
Our best judgment is that as far as memship is concerned, the
,
.
Total for Latin-America is approximately..............................................
T otal for North America ............................................................................

46,000
3,507,661

Total for all Americas ...............................-···-··•··········••···························

3,553,661

2

· 18

Number of
Lodges

Membership

Scotland ................................................................................

f..~f~~dd..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

4,547
690
883

342,000**
56,000*
88,000*

Total for Great Britain and Ireland..........................

6,120

486,000

*Estimated.
"*The total recorded membership of the U . G. L. of England is 371, 000. This
includes Brethren who belong to more than one L odge within the Jurisdiction of
Grand Lodge. The estimated figure probably is about correct.

144

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

145

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

CONTINENTAL EUROPE

Austria (G. L. of Vienna) ........ ·-··-··················
B ulgaria ...... -·-·············-···---··------------·-·-·················
Czechos 1ovakia
, Lessing zu den Drei Ringen ...... ·-·······-····--··
National (Narodni) ...........-.............'. ..............
Denmark ............................................................. .
Finland·····························································-····
France (National Grand Lodge) ......................
Germany
Bruderkette ············-·······-·-·····························
D rei 'W eltkugeln ........... -········'-······················
F.intracht ........................................................
Eklektischer Bund............·-·····-····················-·
Prussia ........................................................... .
Grosze Landesloge............. --··-···-·-···········-······
Hamburg ·································---····················
Saxony ............................................................
Sonne (Sun) .......•..c: .................................:••....
Greece ..................................................................
Holland ······································-········-········-····-·

Number of
Lodges

Membership

23
10

1,667
530

24
11
21
5

1,034
400*
7,156
308

10
176
10
26
108
177
65
46
43
51
128
28
19

1,803
22,400
853
3,000
10,563
21,005
4,500
6,728
3,800
5,700
7,750
10,000•
930
1,800*
23,101
5,000
1,800*
817
6,500
917
282

~~:-n~iia ;···w~~;;;c-c5~-i-~~"ty:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ·

Spain (Grand Lodge).·----············--·--··-··············
Sweden ·········-····-·--····--····--···········-······-·················
Switzerland (Alpina) ·······-----------·-······················
Turkey ··············--···········-······································
Yugoslavia ························--··---·····························
Egypt ···········-·······················---······························
Northern China..............•.....................................
Syria ..:.;.............,•.....~---··········--··········-··········-····-

so

44
39
21
23
73
12

1 Year's
Changes

+1s

-48
-28

-406
-819
-186

+ls1

+215
+s2

-49

211,000
4,180,000

All others, about.•......................•...................•.....•..............•..............••................

52,000

Twelve Jurisdictions have a membership of over 100,000 each. They are
in order of numerical strength : New York, England, Illinois, Penn1ylvania, Ohio, Michigan, California, Texas, Indiana, Massachusetts, Canada (Ontario), and Missouri; with a total membership
of (close to fifty per cent of all the Masons in the world) ..................

Alabama----------------------·······················
Arizona ...............................................
Arkansas........................................... .
California.........---··-············-···············
Colorado.......................................•.....
Connecticut................-······-···············
Delaware............................................
District of Columbia ....·-··-··············
Florida ........... _...................................
Georgia .................... _.........................
Idaho.·--·-···--··-----·--·······-·····················
Illinois._............................................ _
Indiana ...............................................
Iowa·-··-···· ··· --·--··· ··-· ·--·············-~·········
Kansas................................................

~~~t~;~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Maine................................................ .

~~~;!~b.~~~il~:::::·_::::·:.::::·:.:::::::::::·.:::::

Total membership of Masonic Lodges workinR' in the English language,
indicating an increase of approximately 25,000 ......................................

Total membership of regular Lodges in the world, for 1930, approximately···························································································-···-·--··········
The five numerically strongest Jurisdictions. each with over 200,000
members, are New York, England, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Ohio,
with an aggregate total membership of (aoout one-third plus of all
regular Masons in the world) ..........................................._........_.............

JESSE M. WHITED,
Chairman Committee on Correspondence, 1930.
When
Organized

Annual
Communication

Proceedings
Reviewed

June 14, 1821
Mar. 25, 1882
N ov. 2 1, 1838
April 18, 1850
Aug. 2, 1800
July 8, 1789
June 6, 1800
bee. 11, 1810
July
5, 1830
bee, 16, 1786
Dec. 16, 1867
April 6, 1840
Jan. 12, 1818
Jan.
8, 1844
Mar. 17, 1850
Oct. 16, 1800
uly 12, 1812
uly
I, 1820
uly 31, 1783
July 30, 1733
Sept , 14, 1844
Feb. 24, 1853
July 27, 1818
April 21 , 1821
Jan. 24, 1866
Sept. 23, 1857
n. 16, 1865
uly 18, 1789
ec. 18, 1786
Aug. 6, 1877
Sept. 5, 1781
Jan. 14, 1771
ne 12, 1889
an. 7, 1808
ov. 10, 1892
Aug. 16, 1851
Feb. 2, 1764
June 25, 1791
Mar. 24, 1787
July 21, 1875
Oct. 14, 181.l
Dec, 20, 183 7
Jan. 16, 1872
Oct. 14, 1794
May 6, 1777
Dec. 9, 1858
May 11, 1865
Dec. 18, 1843
Dec. 15, 1874

December
February
November
October
September
February
October
December
April
October
September
October
May
June
February
October
February
May
November
December
May
January
February
September
August
ne
une
ay
April
March
May ·
January

1930
1931
1930

+29

The above is not quite complete. All Jurisdictions of our fellowship were requested to cooperate toward" makinl!' the statistical tables this year complete and
absolutely reliable. The great majority complied promptly, but a few failed to reply.
Some of the /urisdictions not included in the tabular lists will be found mentioned
in the body o our report, together with such statistics as were obtained from reliable
sources.
Estimated total for Continental Europe and the Near East, Approximately ............................................................................................•........•......

GRAND LOD GES, DATE OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
COMMUNICATIONS AND P ROCEEDINGS REVIEWED

4,443,000

1,405,900

Michigan ..........................................

~!:R~Jri~'.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Montana.............................................
Nebraska.... ,.............. ·-·······················
Nevada __ ·············································
New Hampshire.... ·-·---·-··················

~:: i{~~i~~--~::.".".".": ::::.":: . ::::::::::::::::::::

New
.. ·-···-···-·--·-························
NorthYork
Carolina.
_________________ ...............
North Dakota--····-··---·-·-···················
Ohio_··---·-···-·······-·······························
Oklahoma ...--····-································
Oregon ..............................................•
Pennsylvania.................................... .
Rhode Island ....................•..........•.•..
South Carolina..........•........•.........•...
South Dakota ............... ·-····-·············
Tenn.e ssee...........................................
Texas...·-························-·······-············
Utah···-···-··-····························-···········

~ i:;i~ia~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Washington·····-····-····························

~ i::o~~~~-i~~~-_-_-_-_·-~- ~~:-_:".::::·.:·.·:::.:::::·.".".".".

Wyoming................. ·-························
2,321,282

i

~

~

t

June

October
February

June

December
May
March

~anuar
ne

ccember
January

June

February
June
October
June
August

1930
1931
1930
1930
1931
1930
1930
1930
1931"
1930
1931
1930
1931
1931
1930
1930
1930-3!
1931
1931
1930
1930
1931
1930-31
1931
1931
1931
1931
1931
1930
1930
1931
1930
1930
19.10
19.11
19.11
19.11
1930
1931
1930-31
19.10
1930
1930
1931
1930

•
146

R.hlPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ttEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

CALIFORNIA STATISTICS

FOREIGN JURISDICT IONS
When
Organized
Alberta ...............................................
British Columbia .............................
Canada .............................................. .
Manitoba...........................................
New Brunswick ...............................
Nova Scotia......................................
Prince Edward Island ....................

~:Skba~~-h~-;,-~~--·_·_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-.._-.-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_

New South Wales ............................
New Zealand ....................................
Queensland........................................
South Australia ................................

~i~~:i~~~::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

West Australia................................

f..~~~:i~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Scotland............................................ .
Belgium.............................................
France (Grand Orient) .................
France (Grand Lodge) ..................
Cuba...................................................
Mexico (York) ................................
Philippine Islands............................
Porto Rico ........................................
Panama..............................................

Annual
Communication

Oct. 12, 1905
June
Feb. 22, 1832
June
Oct. 10, 1855
July
May · 12, 1875
June
Oct. 10, 1867
August
Jan, 21, 1866
June
June 24, 1875
June
Oct. 20, 1869
February
Aug. 9, 1906
June
Dec. 3, 1877
July
April 30, 1890
May
April 25, 1904
June
April 16, 1884
April
June 26, 1890 June & December
April 16, 1884
uarterly
1899
uarterly
June 24, 1717
uarterly
April 6, 1731
ecember
Oct. 15, 1736
February
Feb. 25, 1832
June
Dec. 24, 1772
January
1803
Dec. 5, 1859
March
1861
April
Dec. 19, 1912
January
Oct. 8, 1885
April

~

147

1'roceeding·s

Reviewed
1930
1930-31
1930
1931
1930
1930-31
1930·31
1930·,Jl
1931
1930
1931
193 1
19.10
1930
19.H
1931
1931

1931
1931

(As usual the most complete set of statistics compiled are to be found in the
Ucport .of J. Edward Allen, Correspondent for North Carolina. We have space only
for those applicable to California.)
Average Averaii:e Calif.
in U.S. in Cahf. Ranks
Number of Master Masons per million of population ...... 25,815
25,046
25
200.6
Number of Master Masons per Lodge ................................. .
12
244
Number of Master Masons per hundred square miles ........
91
111
29
. . 90
Percentage of net gain.,. ...........,...............:...... :.......................
2.45'
2
Percentage pf Net Gain to Raisings ....................................
51.4
19.57
3
Number of Suspensions and Expulsions per thousand ......
21.06
41
9.10
Number of Deaths per thousand ............................................
13.14
42
11.95
Percentage of Affiliations to Demissions..............................
91.52
131.60
6
Percentage of Suspensions to Raisings ................................
67.13
19.53
47
18.61
l'ercentagc of Master Masons that are R. A. Masons ......
27.72
49
9.94
Percentage of Master Masons that are R. & S. Masons ....
6.92·
29
l'ercentage of }laster J\fasons that are Knights Templar..
13.16
10.49
38
Percentage of Master Masons that are 14° Masons ..........
24.21
18.06
11
Percentage of Master Masons that are 32° Masons..........
14
16.43
19.95
16
35.87
l'ercentage of R. A. Masons that are R. & S. Masons ......
37.14
Percentage of R. A . Masons that arc Knights Templar ....
13
47.48
56.32
Percentage of 14° Masons that are 32° Masons..................
38
90.96
83 .29
42
Perceutage of 14° Masons that are 18° Masons ................. .
93 .66
89.60
Pe1·centagc of 18° Masons that are 32° Masons ..................
32
95.82
~7.12
Percentage of Knights Templar that arc 32° Masons ........
41
80.12
52.57

Consolidated Statistics from Latest Information Available
United States
Number
Members
Symbo'ic Lodges .......................:...... 16,4163,287,153Cbapters (R. A. M.) ...................... 3,882913,935Councils (R. & S. M.) .................. 1,486327,850Commanderies (K. T.) .................. 1,716+
434,025Lodges (A. & A. S . R.)................ 271595,466+
Chapters (A. & A. S. R.) ............ 232+
557,738+
Consistories (A. & A. S. R.)...... 190+
541,686-

+ Denotes gain in membership, and - a loss.

California
Number
Members
580
142,422+
130
26,50134
9,57465
14,69413
34,047+
13
29,589+
13+ 28,353+

148

REPORT ON CORHESPONDENCE

REPORT ON cnrumSl'(lNDENCE

AMERICAN GRAND BODIES

CHAIRMEN OF COMMITTEES ON FOREIGN
CORRESPONDENCE-OCTOBER 1, 19?1

General Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons-John W. Nelson,
General Grand High Priest, Concordia, Kansas; Chas. A. Conover,
General Grand Secretary, Coldwater, Mich.; 4Znd Triennial, Washington, D. C., 1933.
Grand Chapter of California-Ray R. Woodward, Grand High
Priest, Whittier; Thomas A. Davies, 'Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, San Francisco, 78th Annual Convocation, Long Beach, April
19-20, 1932.
General Grand Council, Royal and Select Masters-Walter L.
Stockwell, General Grand Master, Fargo, N . D.; 0. Frank Hart,
General Grand Recorder, Columbia, S. C. 18th Triennial Assembly,
Washington, D .•c., 1933.
Grand Council of California-S. M. Estabrook, Grand Master,
Alameda; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder; Masonic Temple, San
Francisco. 72nd Annual Assembly, Long Beach, April 18, 1932.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar (U. S. A.)-Perry W.
Weidner, Grand Master, Los Angeles; Adrian Hamersly, Grand
Recorder, Indianapolis, J nd. 39th Triennial Conclave, San Francisco,
June 17-22, 1934.
Grand Command.ery of California-Aubrey R. Parks, Grand
Commander, Long Beach; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. 74t.h Conclave, Long Beach, April
21-22, 1932.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R.-(Southern Jurisdiction)-John
H. Cowles, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander; H. W . Witcover,
33°, Secretary General, House of the Temple, Washington, D. C.
Meets biennially third Monday in October, Washington, D. C.,
William Parker Filmer, 33°, San Francisco, Sovereign Grand Inspector General, Northern District of California; Perry Winslow Weidner, 33°, Los Angeles, Sovereign Grand Inspector General, Southern
District of California.
(Northern Jurisdiction)-Leon M. Abbott, 33°, Sovereign Grand
Commander; Charles H. Spilman, 33°, Secretary General, 299 Broadway, New York. Meets annually the third Tuesday in September,
Boston, Mass.

STATE

NAME

149

ADDRESS

A1abama_ --······· ·· ···- ······ ····· ·····-·--\Villiam R. Clemmons
....... ... Geneva.
Alberta .... ······· ·····-·····----·········· --- F. S. Selwood ........ ............... ........... Calgary.
Arizona _....... . ................ Lloyd C. Henning .... .. ··-------- ·····-··· Holbrook.
Arkansas
A. B . Little .. _ ...... -···--· ···------Texarkana.
British Colu;;;·b;a·.·._·_-...._.._....'_'.'.- . .'Dr. W . A. DeWolf-Smith ........... ..New Westminster.

~~1~}tg;~/+:;:::/f.E\E/:-~!~f.{~i}J~~t::~:\/\/~;>\~f1~~L~co.

District of Columbia ......... ....... Tames A. West.. .... ...... ............ ........Washington.

11:;~I(;!~; : ;~;~ 1 1itf[~j~;,1:1 ;1~1r1t~~.
Mexico (York) -----·-----··--· ··· .... M. A. LoevY------·-·---·······-·--·-----------·1f ex1co C y.

llJf~J,. .~;~ ~; 1:ttifii! :1:J ;~I~lt{~;.
~~l~:~f

· ·: r¥;~g~?·.

':=:

~~i:

~:~~~;::~;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~:~;~;~1..~'.~~ h~~~::.:.:.: .:_:.: .: .: .: .: : ?fa~~';:lphia..

'Ph iJ:nnine I slands ..................... New tn~ C. Cornfort ... ..................... Mantia.

!il1n1~:~~;;;;~!slli~ii~ :_\l\1 1-ll~~;cy
g~g:~~~!~1·i~-~-~-~-~: : : : : : :,:": ·: :..:. ...:.: r~f; !:if~i.4!:~~:: :~ : :~: :~: ~: Es~~t;~g.

'Vvoming ............... ..................... J. M. L owndes .................. :............. Casper.

µa

150

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

GRAND SECRET ARIES ·
Grand Secretary

Grand Lodge

Postoffice

Date
When Service
Began

Alabama ..................... George A. Beanchamp..............Montgomery ................. Dec. 24, 1900

INDEX OF SUBJECTS

1~?:~~".."::::::::::::::::::::::lia~y 'X: br!~'h':;;;,i,~::::::::::::::: ~~ !.~ir.:::: ::::::::::::::::::::§~rye 1~; ~ ~~~
1

Arkansas ..............•.....Fay Hempstead ......................... Little Rock .................. Nov. 2 3, 1881
British Columbia ....... Wm. A . DeWolf-Smith ......... New Westminster..... ..June 22, 1911
California ....................John Whicher........................... San Francisco ............•.Aug. I, 1908
Canada (Ontario) ..... Wm. McGregor "L ogan ........... Hamilton ...................... Oct . 9, 1918

§~~:~:~~~i::::::::::::::::~s:~r~B
!i;~~:::'.::::::::::::::::: itFJ~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::~y 2~: l~i~
Cuba ............................Jose F . C ast ellanos ................. Havana ......................... Dec. 2, 1926

Delawa re .................... John F . Robinson ..................... Wilmington .................. Oct. 2, 19•9
D ist. of Columbia ......J. Clande Keiper.:................... Washington ............... ..June 30, 1924
England ...................... P. Colville Smith ..................... London .................. ....... Sept. .... , 191 7
Florida ........................ Wilber P . Webster.. .................Jacksonville ................•.Jan. 17, 1896
Georgia ....................... Frank F. Baker....................... J\tacon .........................•. Nov. 1, 191 6
Guatemala .................. Francisco Meindl... .................. Guatemala .................... Dec ..... , 1926
Idaho .. .........................Curtis F. Pike............................ l:loise ............................. Sept. 14, 1922
Illinois .........................Richard C. Davenport ..............Harris burg...................Jan . 2, 192Q
Indiana ....................... William H. Swintz.................... Indianapolis ................. Sept. 13, 1920

Page
American Freemasonry ...................................................................... 135, 148
......................10, 52

~~~;:::t~e a-~~·-~·;~~~-~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.............. ............ 90

Bulletins-Grand L odge ....................................................................4, 65, 67
Chairmen-Correspondence Committees ........................................133, 149

~~~:~a~it~:s~·~;~---_._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._....._..._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._..............._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._.~.;~~1~~

Louisiana ....................T,ee E . Thomas ......................... New Orleans .............. .. Feb. .... , 19.ll
Maine .......................... Charles B. Davis ..................... Portland ........................ May I, 191 7
1

Candidates ······································································································ 4~
Conferences ····································································································
Co-ordinate Bodies .....................................·.....................:............................. 15
Correspondence Reports .............................................................................. 18
De Molay;--Order 0£.................................................................................... 5

Massachnsetts ............Frederick W . Hamilton ......... Boston .......................... Mar. I 0, 1915
1'1exico, Valle de........Cesar Domin~uez Ramos ....... Mexico City ................. Mar. 10, ] CJ2'1
Mexico, York............ A. Percival Hughes ..................Mexico C ity................. Apr. 14, 1927

Directory.
Correspondence Committees ...................................................... 133, 149

i~J':~x:::::::::::::::::::::::fi~~.r;~s c~· ~~il~~d::::::::::::::::::::fi~dbifn~~~i~~:::::·.:::·.::Jf;,;. ~~: \~~~
1
~:~~~~ky·:::.·.·.·:.·:.::·::.-:.:·.:¥.~i;rJ: i'g;J:;~k:::::::::::::::::Igfifs~iii~: :::: :::::::::::J;~~- i: ~ ~23

~;~~~~~t·.·.:::::·.::::::::::ltei;;i;;e Aco~k.a_s::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1"..\~h!.':,~t:::::::::·.:::·.::: :J~i:~ i: ?~ri
0

~ii~~i!s~~~::::::::::::::::::fo~~ BFi~!1.s~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::£';"~~tt~~~i~~:::::::::::: ::f.f~~

n: l~rii

~fississiopi .................. Edward L. Faucette ................ Meridian .................... _.Sept. 24, 192 1

Nffgf~;i·: :: : ::~:~ ~:~ ~t~~~~ t:,~J!~~~~:.~: : : :~:~:~:~·~11E~~'.~:i:~~:·_:~ -:~:~ : -~J;~ ~~~. ~ i~~
New Brunswick. ........ T. Twining Hartt...................... Saint John .................. . .June 8, 1~ 0 "
N ew Hampshire........ Harry M. Cheney ....................Concord ........................ Dec. 13, 1909
New J ecsev .................Isaac Cherry ............................. T r enton ............ ............. Apr. 19, 19 1 7
N ew Mexico ............... Alpheus A. Keen ..................... Albuquerque ................ N ov. 19, 1884
New South Wales ..... David Cunni11o:h1m ................. Sydnev ..........................June 11, 19?. 1
New Y ork .................. Fre<lerick J. Milligan ............. New Y o rk .................. ..Juoe II, 1931
1

~~~;hzc~~11~·;;::::.·.·::.·.v:~~g11 ~'A~~a.;.~~~::::::::::::::::::: iia'l~!~~- ~~::::: ::::::::::: ::-:t.;:. ~: l~~~
1

North Dakota ............ Walter L. Stockwell ................Farg-0 ............................ Mar. 31, 1910

~Hi~Hf··-r\/\\L\~:?~fJ.·:~~~~~~;;.; :; .; ; ~ '.~~~~f2l:.L-/./\'.b!~ f~i I~~~

Pennsylvania .............. Tohn A. Perry·········r·············· Philodelphia ................. Oct. 25, 1911
Philipo;ne Islands ..... Newtn"n C. Comfort.. ............... Manila ........................... Dec. 19, 1Qf?
Porto Fko ...... ............ Tose G . Torres................ :........ S nn Tuan ....................... Apr. 27, 19~0
Prince Edward I s ..... Rrnest Kemo ............................. C'harlottetown ...... ........June 27, 1923
11

1

1

g~~~~~j~~d:·:.::::·.:::::::::fha~~ ~'. ~',;'~j~~::::::::::::::::::::~ ,~~~~~.":.:·_-_-_-_-_-_-·__-_-_-_-_··:.·::::::::::: :::::

"Rhode Island ......•.....•Harold L. McAuslan ................ Providence ............ ........ May 16, 1927
Saskatchewan............ W . B. Tate ...... ..........................Reo:ioa ...................................... ,
~c:otl ancL ....................'T'homas \.. Winning............... F,rHnhlfrgh .................... Feh.
4. 10"''
South Anstralia ......... l.harles R. T. Glover ............... Ad laicle ........................ Oct. 20, 1909
0

~Wi~::·-·:ti~~~~~~~~ ~~{[~:.tE:;:~-~~ ;: I!!!

Vktnria ....................... 'Villi;:irn Stf'm!lrt....................... Melho,1rnP....... ............ .. Nov. 18. 192 1
v ;... crinia...................... T~mes M . C1ifL ........................ 'Richmond ..................... Feh. 10. 1°.,.,

m~~f:ffi~'.~~~~:~1~:~:~:-~;;~~~>-~1!i~~-;-;: ;:_; ;~: ; : ~~§;.~~~;-~:;: ·: .:;:;:-. ~:~~~ ~i~ ;~~:o
Wyom:ng ....................Joseoh M. Lowndes ................. Casper ...........................Mar. 9 . 191

Z~i~'.'~J.~:;:r:::-.-•• •· •

':':'.: t~

Dramas ............................................................................................................. 3
Dual Membership .......................................................................................... 3
Dues.......................................................................... ········································ 214

~::t:::o~ta~-;~-~~;~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::;:··~0:··425
Education-Public ................................................................................... .4, 29
Funerals ....................····················································································· 33
Future The .............................................................................. ,....................... 2
18 36 50 65, 113
'
'

...:. . ..:. . ..'....

~:::~ ~:~~=r~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

5, 42
Interesting Readings .................................................................................... 70
Investigation ................................................................................................. . 47
Legislation ...................................................................................................... so
4

~:::e:~.~~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~o: 52

Meetings-Grand Lodge ....................................................................136, 145
Membership ..............................................................................................47, 58

INDEX OF JURISDICTIO N S QUOTED-Continued
INDEX OF SUBJECTS-Continued
Page
Page
Offenses ··················:······················-······························································S, SO
'' 01 la-P odrida'' ·········-············· ......................................................................113
Past Masters ................................., ................................................................. 62
Proceedings ··········································-·············································'······-9, 6S
Publicity ................................................................................................4, 6S, 67
Readings-Interesting ................................................................................ 70
Records ...........................................................................................................'. 6
Relief ................................................................................................................ 71
Ritual --···················:·····································································-10, S8, 7S, 8S
Shrine-The ..............,.,...............................................................................·.... 7
StatisticsCalifornia ................................................................................................ 147
Co-ordinate Bodies................................................................................ 138
Grand Lodges ..................................................:.................,................... 140
Suspensions ···-······················-'··········································:..................21, S8, 80
Temples .... ,..................................................................................................... 7
Thir.d Degree. Lecture.............................................................................. 10, 8S
Visiting ······-·····································································-'························10, 88
Washington Memorial ..............................................................................2, 8

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUOTED
Page
Alabama ·············································································-21, 42, 6S, 90, 113
Alberta ···-···················································································.-···-··········25, 126
Arizona ................................................................................................ 16, S3, 99
Arkansas .......................................................................................................... 114
British Columbia..................................22, 33, 36, 47, S9, 71, 96, 110, 127
Chile ....................................................................................:............................ 129
Canada (Ontario) ...,..........................................................16, 34, 86, 96, 127
Connecticut .............................................:..................30, 36, 42, 88, 100, 114
Cuba ................................................................................................................ 128
Delaware ·······································:·············'············································25, 114
District of Columbia ..........................................................17, 31, 72, 88, 100

F lorida .............................................................................. 19, S3, 72, 101, 1lS
Georgia ....................................................................................................90, llS
Guatemala ...................................................................................................... 128
Idaho ··········-······················································································10, 91, 102
Illinois ........................................10, 37, 43, 48, S3, S9, 7S, 86, 89, 91, 116
Indiana ..................................................................................:................. 102, 116
Iowa ·············································································-···--12, 19, 76, 91 , 117
Kansas ................................................................................................34,· 43, 102
Kentucky ············-········································-~---·············:··························92, 117
Louisiana ........................................................................................................ 81
Maine ···································-··································19, 22, 31, SO, 67, 72, 102
Manitoba ·······················································································-·········81, 127
Maryland .................................................... ,.......................23, SO, 72, 92, 118
Massachusetts .....................................................................................-103, 118
Mexico-York ......................................................................20, 23, 44, 76, 97
M ichigan ..................................................... .12, 37, 44, Sl, 65, 68, 103, 119
Minnesota ········-···································································--·.26,, 92, 104, 119
Mississippi ·······················-·································--·--···········38, 60, 63, 86, 119
Missouri ································-···············-·················-······-····-·····················-···--120
Montana ···········-····················································17, 20, 26, 44, 77, 93, 120
Nebraska .........•..........................................................................................26, 61
Nevada ......................:..................................... 17, 20, 49, 61, 77, 89, 93, 107
New Hampshire ....................................38, 44, SO, Sl, SS, 61, 66, 81, lOS
New Jersey .....~---·············'.············································-----·-············13, 105, 120
· New Mexico ............................................................................31, 93, 106, 121
New South Wales .......................................................................................... 129
New Y ork .......................................................................-2, 68, 72, 77, 81 , 106
New Zealand .................................................................................................... 130
North Carolina ...................................... 17, 34, 39, SS, 69, 78, 86, 107, 121
North Dakota ..................•...........................................39, 4S, 56, 66, 94, 121
Nova Scotia ..............................................................................82, 97, 110, 127
Ohio ....................................................................................................13; 70, 122
Oklahoma ·························-·--·-······································································'...107
Oregon .................. .'......................'. ..............................................................4S, 94

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUOTED-Continued
Page
Pennsylvania .................................................................................................. 108
Philippine Islands ............................................................ 39, 56, 82, 110, 126
Porto Rico .................................................................,...................................... 126
Prince Edward Island ...................·............................................................... 127
Quebec ······································································:····································· 51
Queensland .................................................................................................... 130
Saskatchewan ................:....................................................................... 111, 128
Scotland ···················································································'·····················-132
South Carolina ....................................................................21, 45, 66, 94, 122
South Dakota ......................_. ........... :......................................................... 46, 56
Tasmania ························································································'···············130
Tennessee ...........:............................................................................ 24, 108, 122
Texas .............................................................. 14, 32, 39, 46, 56, 83, 94, 123
Utah ...... ,......................................... 14, 27, 40, 47, 57, 73, 79, 83, 108, 123
Vermont .......................................................................................... 87 109, 124
Victoria ··········································· ··········· ················'················· ·· ··········8~, 131
Virginia ...............................................................................63, 66, 95, 109, 124
Washington ............................. .28, 32, 40, 51, 57, 73, 79, 84, 89, 95, 125
Western Australia ................................... :.................................................... .
.................. 14, 18, 24, 35, 40, 52, 58, 64, 66, 74, 79, 84, 87, 98, 111
West Virginia ..........................................................................................96, 125
Wisconsin .."....................................................32, 41, 47, 61, 67, 75, 87, 110
Wyoming ........................................................................................................ 96

INDEX-1931

A
Aahmes Temple-Adjustment of controversy ....................................441
.Activities Committee-Appropriation for ········-··-··-·········-·················753
Address of Grand Master-(See Grand Master) .................................438
Advancement of E. A. after suspension for cause ....................473, 735
Agvisory Fina~ce Committee ................•... ----····-··-·-·······················-····724
Affiliation-Home fees previously paid.•.•.•.. ,.........•..................- ....... - ..716
Right of non-resident Mason ...........·-·········-····················-·······-····467
Right to apply for ..... ~----~---·················:-····-·····································-.458
Annual Election of Officers .....................................•..............,...... _....,.......801
Annual Oration ···-···•············..··························.-··•·····-·:------···-···-·--···514
. Annual Returns-Special matter to ·be included in .............,.............. 470
Appeal-Time within which must be taken ........................................ 735
Applications for degrees-Cannot have an added clause ..................461
Form for -···'····-"····························································:············;;........ 715
_Appropriations ···---~---··-··--·····-························-······-··:- .................... _678, 745
Arizona-Visit of Grand Master of........................................................443
Assets of Grand Lodge.·······································-····-········--···········•·-·····-$07
Audit of Accounts by Finance Committee ..........................;_____________ 749

B
Bahia, Grand Lodge of, recognized·......................... ---········-···················712
.Ballot on rejected candidates, decision of Grand Master................. .456
Bequests to H-0n1cs............... _.........................- ..................... ~--·········--·····S28
Betts, Amos A.-Visit of to California ...................... ,............... - ..........443
Board of Control-Report of......................................---····--···················660
Statistical information ···········-···.. ·························--····-·····•·'············-683
·Boards of .Relief-Appropriations for ............................................- ........745
Brazil, Grand Orient-Recognition withdrawn............ :............... 712, 713
Building projects-Report of Committee on". ................................,.-...637
By-Laws amended in the year ......................................----·········-····--······499
Dues when payable ...............·-···············-···--··········---·-·······-··········718
Repo~t of Committee on ........................,......... - ...............................659

ii

INDEX

INDEX

iii
Page

Page

c
Candidate-Dispensation to ballot on rejected •...................................456
General qualifications ·of..........:...:........:............................................ 464
Indispensable .qualification ..............................................................::450
Physical qualifications ...........,.._...........................................................451
Canoga Lodge-Name chang.e d from Owe11smouth..................494, 705
Cash receipts and disburseme~ts....•....... :··········-~-: ...".:....: .......................501
C?arges~Duty of Junior Warden to prefer..........:.:..........................-473
Right of Master to deny debate .........................."............................474
Charters-Duplicate issued.........................................~.......................... ~...494
· Report of Committee on..."············::..........'...........................:...........660
Clandestine Masonry-Report. of Committee on....................:..........,633
Report of Policy Committee............:.......:..............................:........704
Committees of Grand Lodge.... :........:..:: ...........:........................... ~......:...804
Constitutional Amendments proposedSection 6 (lost) ...........,..,.........:.............: ................................: ............612
Section 27 (a.dopted) .......... :..................................- ...............:.•.611, 720
Section 32c (not reported back) ..:..........................:...•....:........._....611
Section 39 (lost) ········:···········.·:················· ············-·············- ···;...........612

i~i !~ ~ 'lt~1r<:d)~'.~-={ii:~=~I~t='.~ J: ~~JJ::-.,~~m

Section 88 (adopted as amended) ................................614, 708, 709
Section 89 (adopted) ...............-,_......:.........................................708, 709
Section 93 (adopted) ..............~·-································-·····:.........616, 721
Section 94 (lost) ..,,.. ,........... ,...•....:................... ,............:.....•......:.........612
Section 100 (adopted) ...............- ............................................:..717, 718
Section 129 (adopted) ................................................................724, 736
Section 150 (adopted) ...... :,......,............. :.:.....:...........................612, 720
Section 194Y, (lost):.:............................... .".................................614, 719
Section 196 (.lo.s t) .......~·-·························-·············:.................:..61-5, 719
Section 200 (lost)__.............................................................•.........615, 719
Section 207 .(adopted) .,._.................,..:.............-·-···-···-··············-······735
Section 246 (adopted) .......'-······················.-···~-,,······--··········~········-··71S
Section 247 (adopted) .. :...........................,..................................- .....:.716
Section 251 (adopted) ............:.................:...........................................731
Credentials-Report"
.. :..:........756
. . ..
. of Committee
.
. on..·-····'······················-···:
.

Decisions of Grand Master-Approval of.........;............·.-.........:.......,...731
Advancement after suspension for cause ......................................473
Affiliation-Right of non-resident Mason..................................:... 467
Application blanks cannot be added -to......- ...:...........................:;.461
Applications ·cannot be in duplicate ............................................:...460
Belief in Supreme Being......:.......::........::..:.:........::............................450
Charges, right of Master to refuse debate ....................................474
Collection of dues .'....................-.:··-····························-·········'"··········475
Dispensations to reballot .. :.................................................................456
Dues payable on request for dimit .......:.................:........................465
Dues, when payable........................................................ ~--···-·-··········465
Duty of Junior Warden to prefer charges:........:..........................473
Funds, investment of..........................................................................:.470
Healing .......................................:...·-·······························-············.".....-452
Holding office in Lodge-Who eligible..........................................465
Inspec,tors, duties and powers..................:......•...............:..................449
Inspectors, pay of by Lodges...............................;............................ 469
lnve,s tigating Committee, to whom known ..................................462
Jurisdiction of Lodge ········································-···········-····················471
Lodge, where may and may not meet............................................455
Los Angeles Masonic Library...: ............·-···························-·············454
Neglect of Secretary in failure to collect fees ..............................466
Normal jurisdiction, what constitutes ............................................472
Physical qualifi.cations of candidates.............................................. 451
Publication of roster of members....................................................463
Quorum required to transact business..........................................462
Right to apply for mem•b ership .....................................................:..458
Secretary, right of to issue certificate to non-Mason ......464, 475
Status of irregular Mason expelled ·b y another jurisdiction .... 453
Trial commission when more than one accused ..........................474.
Warden, status of on death of Master..................:...................:....457
Decoto Home-Lodge meetings at ........................,..._.·-············-········-"·721
Report of Superintendent.........................:...................................:....549
Dedication of Forest Lawn monument..................................................440
Degrees-Applicatio~ blanks cannot have added clause..................461
Application for cannot be in duplicate ...........................- .............460
Form for petition .................... ·-···············-············--····~········'·············'116
Proposed limit on number ...........................................•..:...........- ....(05
Where may :be conferred.................................................................... 455
Delinquent members-Committee on .........................:~........................479

iv

INDEX

INDEX

v

Page

Page

Digest of Decisions-······- ·············• .. A•"'->-········;······-················:........488, 722
Provision for publication ...........................................•........................ 722

Grand Master's Message-'Aahmes Temple ........................................441
Appreciation of support ..........................- ... ········-·····························489
Attendance at Grand Master's Conference....................................445
Charity funds-·-································-·········--··- ··········--····- ···················477
Committee on .delinquent members ................................................479
Conditions that contribute .to suspensions .................................... 482
Decisions (See Decisions) ..........................................................449, 731
Dedication of Memorial monument ................................................440
Digest of decisions .........................................................- ...........488, 722
Dispensations issued.............................. :............ __..:................... ~ . : ....498'
·Masonic Educ:ation ................- ·······- ··---·······-····'····························-·448
Elk Grove Lodge vs. W. G. Harding Lodge ..............................443
Extraneous sections of ·Constitution ......................................482, 719
George Washington Memorial... ................................... ,................... 444
·Masonic history.. ."...".........~ ..'............... ~ ....................................................447
Masonry, .g eneral condition of:•........................................................488
Message of.............................................................................................. 438
Motion pictures-Report of Policy Committee.............:..............721
Necrology ..................................... ~~ ..:.....:.•...........•..:.............. _.: ...,:_.;:.438
Officers' organizations .......................:..................:..................... - :•....487
Per diem of representatives-Report of Policy Com'mittee ...... 722
Portrait of ordered ................................................................................74~
Public Schools week......... ."............................;.....................................447
Recommendation "f" approved as to policy..................................720
Report of Committee on Message .................................................... 508
Suspension of a Master ..........................~ .............................................443
Visit of Arizona Grand Master......~·-·············'·················-··············443
Visitations ;:.....:..:.......;..............~ ..;..............:......;.................:.................476
Grand Secretary-Cash receipts and disbursements ............................501
Conference of Grand Secretaries ......................................................495
Report of.•..............•·-················-·······-····:..............................................490
Report of Committee on................·-···········-····- ······--................... .512
To ·a ttend National Conference................................................ 707, 755
To include what in annual return blanks ......................................470
Grievances-Report of Committee on ...•................................................ 737

Dispensations issued in the year............. :................................................498
Dues-Duty of Secretary to send notlces .............................................. 732
Payable with request for dimjt... ............................ - .......................465
Secretary required . to send JlOtices ........................................464, 475
When payable ................................................ - ......................:........465, 718

E
Eastern Star-Right of Secretary to furnish information to ....... :....734
Educational Committee-Report of:...:.................. :.:.•......:.....- ............:.657
Elk Grove Lodgt!-'Charges by vs. W. G. Harding Lodge ..............443
Emergency Relief Fund-Condition of.......................- .........................503
Transfer 0£................... :.- .............~ .............•......................:...........-'-·····749
Endowment-Report of Committee on ............·-····-·····························635
Englis h, Chas: A.-Gra.nd Treasurer pro tem ....................................:.436
Entered Apprentice-Status of after suspensio·n for cause..... .473, 735
Expenditures for social purposes-Report of Policy Committee ...... 708
Extraneous organizations..................................................................482, 719

F
Fees, failure of Secretary to collect-Liability of........................... - .. .466
Fellow ·Craft-Status of after suspension for cause.......................... 735
Foreign Grand Lodges-List of recognized ................................836, 837
Report of Policy Committee ..._................:....:............................ ~ ...709
Foreign Language Lodges-Repeal of Regulation 96........................ 732
Forms for Annual Returns-Report of Policy Committee ..............707
Funds-For social purposes ......................................................................468
Investment of life membership .......................................- .......470, 724
Testimonial for retiring Master ...,...,..............................................468
Utilization of for charity...- ........................................................:......477
When Lodge may contribute to a library......................................454

G

H

Germany-Report of Policy Committee .................:....... :...................... 709
Glidden, Charles E .-Eulogy on ........................................:.......:...........696
Gold Buttons for veteran members .................................. ,.......................491
Grand Lecturer-Report of;......... ~ .......................................................... 523
Report of Committee on ..·- ···- ············································:............. 641
Grand Lodge-Special Communications of......................................... .438

Harvey, George R.-P. G. M., visits Grand Lodge ............................ 508
Hassfer, William C.-Eulogy on ............................................................698
Bausch, Chas. H . J.-Junior Grand Steward pro tem ........................436
Healing, what constitutes..........................................................................45~
Hutaff, Gus A.-Eulogy by...................................................................... 696

vi

INDEX

INDEX

vii

Page

Page

Inspectors-Duties and powers.........................................................;...:.. 449
Pay of,.........-...-.......... ,.................- ·····························-··············:....469, 732
Investigating Committee-To whom known ..............................462, 717
Italy-Report of Policy Committce.......................................... ,...........710

Masonic .History-Appropriation for....~...•:....•.,.......................-·····--···748
. Grand Maste(s i:omments on ..........;.•.·-····•··················-·······-···········447
. .Report .of .C om·rnittee.....;...............:-..;.......... ,....,,................ v·····'······...598
.Report of Policy Committee................................:............._:...~ .......704
Masonic Homes-Adults admitted in the year,....................... _.......... 570
Annual report of..................................:.. ..-········-······················............ SJS
Appropriations for:...:..::.:..:::...............:....................................:........:..740

I

J
Junior Warden-Duty to prefer char.ges................................................473
] urisdiction of Lodge.........·-·-·······-·······- ·····..................................471, 472

K
Kettner, William-Eulogy on....................................................................700

L
Lassen Monument-Report of Committee on......................................636
Learned, Leslie E.:_Annual oration...................................................... 514
Library, Los Angeles-Grand Master's decision ..................................454
Library-Report of Committee on......................................................:....634
Life Mem'berships-Approved in the year:...........................:...............498
Funds, _investment of.........:......................:...............-..: ......470, 724,_ 736
Lodge--N ormal jurisdiction of.............;:.............................................,.:.471
Pay of Representatives to Grand Lodge..............L .......................469
Quorum required to transact business ............................................-462
Where may and may not meet........................................................455
Who eligible to hold office..................................................................465
Lodges-List of..............................................................................................801
Lucas, William T.-Eulogy on...................................................... - ........694
Luckenback bequest to Homes ................................................................ 528

M
Maricopa Lodge--Petition for particular jurisdictioil......................736
Masonic Clu'b Houses-Appropriations for ..........................................748
Masonic Education-Appropriations for ................................................ 751
Grand Master's comments on...................................................:......448
Report of Comniittee..:..:.......................:.....:........................................657
Report of Policy ·Committec.............................................................. 708
Masonic Employment Service-Appropriation for ...........................:745

:;~~e:~ ~b~~~~~~·:::::::::::::::::::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~
Children. admitted in the year .........:.....:.....................:.... :....:............596
Children, names ot.::...................................................:......................... 591
Concerning revenues ...:............................................................ ;........... 527
Condition of ·f unds .................·............................,..........................:...........532
Cost of opcration ....................,............................................................. 543
Covina-Report of Superintendent..................................................573
Decoto-Deaths in the year ....~···--·---..··-·'-········-·········-··..........571
Re1>ort of Super.inten_d ent .............. ,............................................. 549
Endowment Fund ........................:.............,.............,..........,........528, 544
Finances ...........................:........................................:.......:......................529
Lodges may meet at..............: .•.., ........................................................721
Luckenback bequest ....................................................................- ..... 5~
Names of residents .:..:..:.:.:.....................:............................................5d1,
Net worth ····-··'·'··'·'·········"···'·····..'······-·········:.,....................................:53P
Outside relief ........................................ ",............... -·-············..--·569, 595
Per capita tax f()r•.......,...., .......................................................;............147
Receipts since August 1, 1931..........................................................503
Scholarships :......:.............................................:......•.............:............... 529
Secretary's report.. ....::,.:...........:............................................:.............. 532
Masonic Library-Grand Master's decision ....:...................~········.......454
:Masonic Temple Association-Purchase of stock................................751
Report of.:.....:................:..................,............:.........:·........:...........::..........636
Masonry, general condition oL.................................:.......................:......488
M~ster-Deiinquent members....................................................................479
Duty as to retief ..............;.......;.............................................................478
Right t o refuse debate as to charges ..............................................474
McCoy, Francis ].-Eulogy •by................................................................694
Membership .....................................;: ...................................................490, 491
Right to apply . for ..........:····· ............:'··--····.. ···········-:····-··~··········-·.458
Membership Roster-Publicaticm of ........,..•.....•.•..•..•...,.-..:..................463
Memorial Services- Eulogy on Charles E. Glidden..........................696
Eul.o gy on William C. Has sl.e r,,,,.. ,..~·········'········~····: ...•:..·..........., .•..698

viii

INDEX

INDEX

.... .br••.... ... . . ..

Page
Page

Eulogy on William T. Lucas....:.........._................:.........................:694
Eulogy on William Kettner..................•.;...........................................700
Report of Committee on Necrology................................................690
Minas Geraes, Grand Lodge of, recognized........................................712
Morrison, Claude H.-Eulogy by................................~---························700
' Motion pictures of Grand Masters................................................616, 721

N
Necrology-Grand Master's reference to.............................,................438
Report of Committee on .......................................................·..- .........690
_S tanding Committee _provided ........:.......................................- ....._.720
Normal ] urisdiction of a Lodge.....................................- ........,..............472

0
·officers' organizations .......................- .......................................:.................487
Oration, Annual ............_..- .......................................................................... 514
Owensmouth Lodge-Name changed to Canoga........................494, 705

p
Pacific Grarid Lodge recognized..................................:...........................713
Para, Grand Lodge .r ecognized............................,..,.............. _ .............. 712
Parahyba, Grand Lodge recognized .....................:..................................712
Pay of litspectors.......................................-................................................... 732
Pay of Members-Report of committee..................................................703
Report of Finance Committee.............................: ....................749, 752
Physical qualificatioris.................................... ,...........................725, 726, 730
Of candidates..........................................................................................451
Pinole Lodge No. 353--Duplicate charter for......................................494
Public Schools Week-Grand Master's comments · on......................447
R.e port of Committee on.:...........:..............................:.........................647

Q
Quorum required to transact business...........................................:..:...462

Reports of Committees-Board of Control.................................:.. ::..:'. ..660
On Building Projects ··'···'·"·"'·.......:.................................:.........~ .. ,:.'.:;..637
On By-Laws -..·..·.-...............................:.........-..............................::.:::..'...:...;...659
On Charters ···'-·'·"'····'"·····'"···'·'··········'···'"·····················'··············:..:...660
On Clandestine Masonry.....,........·:..:.."·'··'··'"····'··:..........................'. ..633
On Credentials '·'·'·····'·········'·······'··'·····'··'·:.:..................:...................... 756
On Endowment · .......................:.......................:..............:..............c.•:'...635
On Fina-nee
Activities Committee, appropriation for ................................753
Appropriations ·...:..-.....L:....................................- ......... ..................745
Audit of accounts.:.......,..............:..................... :........................... 749
Boards of ·RelieL.-....-............................:................ :.......................745
Budget recommended ...................................:....:.........................754
Conference· of Grand Secretaries ..............................................755
Emergency Relief Fund-Transfer of....................................749
Grand Master's traveling expenses .........:......:.,.......................749
Lodges delinquent for Grand Lodge dues.:.........:.................. 752 ·
Masonic education, appropriation for .....~ ..............................751
Masonic History .......-..........:.-....::...................................:.................748
Masonic Homes ............................................................................746
Motion. pictures of Grand Masters ..........................................722
Pay of members.....:........................................:..............................752
Per diem of Representatives: .....................................................749
Per capita tax for next year.....:............:.......;·;...-.......................753
Por trait of Grand Master................................:............................749
Purchase of Temple Stoek.....:.............................'........:.............. 751
Salaries ·........:.....-...:......:...............- ................................:.:................. 752
Special appropriation for a worthy brother:.........................755
University Masonic Ch.rbs.-:...............................:............ :...........748
On Grand Lecturer's ReporL ........................'..................................641
On Grand Master's Message...........:..................:......:...................... 508
On Grievances ....:.........:....::..:........ :.::.:.....................:.•................496, 737
On Jurisprudence-Appeal, time for reduced .......................:......735
Decisions of Grand Master...........- .................:.......:...... '.....:......731
.Foreign Language Lodges....................•:.:...:.•...............- .........732
Investment . of I,.if.e Membership funds ..•..:...........:.................736
Maricopa and Temblor Lodges-Petitions of......•...............739

~~~s~:Jo:t:i~~~:~:i~~~:::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::~~:::::~::::::::::::::::~:::::::::~~

R
Relief-See Board of Control.......,..............................-...........,..................660
Must .b e direct. .................................~ ............
~:
732
Suspension of a Master........- .............................................................443
·Relief Fund- Transfer of ...................:...............i .......................................749
u •••• ••

......... . . : •••- ......... ... ...

lie (Hreet::...:......:..:..:....................... .....:...............
·or

. Relief must "
~.-:
732
tci furn ish information.....•;.....................734
·secretary, right
Status of E. ·A: or F . c. after suspension for Ca\ISe.......•..735
Status of Warden "ori death of Master..:.:.........:..................:.. 733

. ~.

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Page
On Las·s en Monument ·-·'··-·-····--······-·-··-·····-············•················636
On Library - ·············-············:········-··············-·····-···--···-··;_..•.......634
·on Masonic Education....·-···-·······························-·-···-········-····-····657
On Masonic History...............................................,.·-·-··-·-··-····-····598
On Necrology ···········-······-···-············-········-·············-·-··················69(}
On Pay of Members.... _,,..,................................ ~.. ---····-···········-~--703
On Policy and General Purposes-Advisory Finance
Committee ·····················································'---··-·-····-····724
Clan des tine .Masonry....'···-··-············-··················-···-···············704
Degrees, limit on....................................,..,.._.......••-...................705
Digest of Decisions ··································-····-··-············-·-·······722
Dues, when payahle.... ~·-·························-········-··············: ..........Jl8
Elimination of extraneous sections.............:...........- ...............719
Expenditures for social purposes..............................................708
Foreign Grand Lodges,,....-..···-···········-···········--··-················709
Forms for Annual Returns............•.................:..............•.......... 707
Grand Master's recommendation "r"._...................................718
Grand Secretary ··-·····-·-·········•..·········-···-··-···············-··········707
Home fees from affiliates ..............................................- •... ~.......716
Investment of Life Membership funds ............- ...................... 724
Lodge meetings at Decoto Hmne....- ......................................721
Masonic Education ··································-·················-···-····-····708
Masonic History.._·············-··'··•···-··-····-·-···············-·-···...··········704
Motion pictures of Grand Masters ...............·-············-··········721
Names of investigating committees...............- .......................717
Necrology, reports required ··············-······································720
Owensmouth Lodge............·-·································-··-················705
Per diem of Representatives......................................................722
Physical qualifications ····················-····················-····........ 725, 726
_Sponsors for petitioners....•.•........................................-·-··········715
Trial commissions, selection by lot.........·-·············-······-····719
Washington Memorial ······································--······················706
On Public Schools Week......- ..........:....·-········-·-·············..·····-·•··647
On Retur~s ···································· ···········--··-··········-··-·-·--··········617
Report of Finance Committee......................- •.·....................................... 749
Report of Grand Lecturer................,............~...............:.,....., ...... :............. 523
Report of Grand Secretary..........................................:..:...............:..........490
By-Laws amended in the year...............:..........................................499
Canoga Lodge No. 611.....:..:......................:.. - .................:.........- .......494
·Cash receipt·s and disbursemcnts...........................................~..........501
Charters, duplicates issued..................................................................494
Conference of Grand Secretaries......................................................495

xi

Dispensations issued ...............:~ •.......................................................498
Emergency Relief fund ........................................................................ 503
Life memberships approved .:•..•...:....................:...................:...........498
Masonic Homes, ri::ceipts•.......~······-··-····•············:···············--······503
Membership of jurisdiction............................._.........................490, 491
Owensmouth Lodge, change of name..............................................494
Representatives appointed .... :.,...._.....................................................494
Trial records ············-··········································-·································496
Veteran buttons issued........................................................................491
Report of Grand Treasurer........................:.. ~..~..~......................................506
Report of Masonic Homes ...........•.·-························································525
Representatives appointed ····-·--··········-··-····-···········--·····················•··494
Representatives, per diem for ......• --~···-··--·-·-'-··-·--··············--·"'·722
Rio Janeiro, Grand Lodge recognized.........·--····································712
Roster of Members, pu·b!ica tion of.....-·•······················-·················:.......463
Roumania-Report of Policy Committee ......................................, .......711

s
Sanger Lodge No. 316-Duplicate charter for .................................•....494
Sao Paula, Grand Lodge recognized........................................................712
Scholarships, Masonic Homes.................................................................. 529
Secretary of Lodge-Neglect to collect fecs ........•.................................466
Quarterly statements to delinquents ................................................732
Required to send notices of dues payable........................................475
Right to issue certificate to non-Mason ................................464, 734
Solano Lodge-Purchase of stock from ................................................751
Sound motion pictures-Proposal for ......................................................616
Suspension of a Master................................................................................443
Suspensions-Conditions that contribute to ..........................................482

T
Temblor Lodge-Petition for particular jurisdiction ..........................736
Traveling expen·ses of Grand Master......................................................749
Trial Commission when more than one accused..................................474
T~ial Commissioners-Selection by lot..................................................719
Trial records .......................................~..........................................................496
Trials-Reports of Grievance Committee.......... -..................................737

xii

INDEX
Page

u
U. C. Berkeley Club House-Report of.....•..,.•.............._ .................,.~ ..645
U. C. Los Angeles Club House--Report oL..................:..........,..........642
U. C. Masonic Clubs-Appropriations for ...........·................:................ 748

v
Veteran members-List <if.:.;::.::..:..::..~:.:.:.:.:.::.:.:::.::.....:...................:..:......491
Visitations by Grand Master....................,................ _.............................476

w
Warden, status of on death of Master:.........:...............................457., 733
Warren G. Harding Lodge-Charges against by Elk Grove

Lodge_···-·····-········-·-,-·······:.....:..........,_ ............:...:-....................:...:...•443
Washington Memorial-Per capita tax for ........................_..........737, 751
Report of Policy Committee on•.............................,.............. :..........706
Visit of Grand Master to..,.................................................,...............444
Wollenberg, Charles M.-Eulogy by ......................................................698

