GUY BOYD MIZE
GRAND MASTER

GUY B. MIZE
Grand Master
Septemb er 29, 1961 - October 12, 1962

Guy Boyd Mize, who, on October 12, 1962, retired as Californ ia's
ninety-si xth Grand Master of Masons, was born in Ullin, a small rural
community in the southwe sterly corner of Illinois, on April 23, 1901.
His parents were Jacob L. Mize and Alice Eva (McMah an) Mize,
also native of Illinois. While they owned and operated a small farm
with the usual crops and animals, his father also maintained his own
general store and served as town marshal. He studied law to be prepared for his official duties as Justice of the Peace and Magistra te in the
town government. He was a lifelong student of the Bible, his avocation
being as teacher of a men's Bible class. This he pursued regularly and
faithfully until his death in 1927 at the age of 69 in Glendale, Californ ia.
His wife Alice was ever at his side and at 95 still maintains her own
home and is quite active.
Other relatives of the Grand Master are:
Homer, an older brother, of Grass Valley, California, and a sister,
Ellen Rains, of Minneapolis, Minneso ta. Two other brothers, one a twin
of the Grand Master, are deceased.
When Guy was six years old, his family moved to St. Louis, Missouri, where he attended grade schools and McKinle y High School. At
business schools he studied auditing and accounti ng and began his
business career as a cost accounta nt with Emerson Electric Compan y,
then engaged in making fans and motors.
In 1920 he spent two months in Glendale, California, but decided
to •r eturn to St. Louis. Another winter there convinced him that he preferred Californ ia's salubrious climate. He, therefore, returned to Glendale in the summer of 1921 and has since resided there. He was soon
followed by his J1arents and twin brother.
Being trained as an accounta nt, Guy worked first for Wilshire Oil
Compan y; eighteen months later he was employed by Pilcher and Cox,
prominent real estate subdividers in the early twenties. Then followed
three years as a senior accounta nt for the firm of Blackwell, Reed and
Compan y.
On April 10, 1929, he entered the employ of The John M. C. Marble
Compan y (now known as The Marble Compan y), an old and respected
mortgag e banking firm, as general auditor in charge of accounting for
its mortgage, bond and insuranc e business. He is still with the same firm,
having served in turn as head of property management, appraise r, secretary. vice-president, executive vice-president, and, since January,
1959. president. He has served on the board of directors for twelve years,
as well as on committees of state and national mortgag e banking associations, and, in 1959-60, was presiden t of the Southern Californ ia Mortgage Bankers Association. Along the way he studied real estate financing
and appraisin g in extension divisions of the Universi ty of Southern
Californ ia and the Universi ty of Californ ia (San Francisc o-auspic es of
N .A.R.E.B .) and has been registere d as a real estate broker since 1940.
F·rom 1940 to 1944 he served as a director of Goodwill Industrie s
of Los Angeles, contribu ting his real estate experience to the organiza tion.

In 1948 he was a member of the Charter Revision Committee for the
City of Glendale.
Brother Mize has been a member of the Central Christian Church,
Glendale, since 1921. Through this affiliation he met Ruby Evelyn Eubanks, who became his wife on June 20, 1925, a week after her graduation from U.C.L.A. (then University of California, Southern Branch).
To this marriage was born Guy, Jr. (veteran of the Korean War), who
is a graduate of U.S.C. and now a member of the staff of Coldwell,
Banker & Co. He is married to the former Gloria Goold and they are
residents of Los Angeles.
An interesting sidelight is that the Grand Master and his wife were
born within forty miles of each other but never met until after they both
were residents of Glendale.
The Grand Master was raised in Unity Lodge No. 368 on November 23, 1928. He first served as Treasurer and progressed through the
Chairs, serving as Master in 1939.
He was a member of the Credentials Committee in 1940, appointed
Inspector of the 86th Masonic District in October, 1944; Assistant
Grand Lecturer in October, 1950, and Trustee of the Masonic Homes
of California in 1954. He was elected Junior Grand Warden in 1958,
Senior Grand Warden in 1959. Deputy Grand Master in 1960, and
Grand Master in 1961.
He is a member of Unity Chapter No. 116, Royal Arch Masons,
Glendale; Unity Council No. 48, Royal & Select Masters, Glendale;
Glendale Commandery No. 53, Knights Templar, Glendale; the Los
Angeles Bodies of the Scottish Rite; Saint Gabriel Conclave No. 14,
Red Cross of Constantine; and a charter member and former treasurer
of Southern California Research Lodge. He served as president of Southern California Past Masters Association in 1955 and received the Honorary Legion of Honor, Order of DeMolay in 1952.
While Brother Mize was serving as Grand Master, in February of
1962, he was elected a member of the Board of Directors of the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, Alexandria,
Virginia.
From this sturdy record and background has come the stamina of
our self-effacing Grand Master. In the interchange of duty, honor and
responsibility he has not sought the path of comfort but has humbly
faced the stress and spur of difficulty and challenge. Loyalty, compassion and gentleness have characterized his every act respecting home,
country and fraternity. He has not sought to master others but, steadfastly, he has lived by the laws, rules. regulations and landmarks of
Grand Lodge. By his recommendations he looked into the future but
left the decisions to his brethren. His modesty enabled him to remember
the simplicity of true greatness, the open mind of true wisdom, the
meekness of true strength. His labors should teach us the way to be a
true Grand Master and a Christian gentleman.
1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3

I. EDWARD H. SIEMS, Grand Secretary of the M.'. W .'. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one hundred thirteenth
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday, the 8th day of October, A. L. 5962, and terminated on Friday,
the 12th day of October, A. L. 5962.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
tihe seal of the M. ·. W. ·. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary, this second day of
November, in the year of Light,
five thousand nine hundred and
sixty-two.

Grand Secretary

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M:.W:.GRAND LODGE
of

1J1ree auh .Attepteh tlasnus
OF THE
STA TE OF CALIFORNIA
ATITS
113TH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE
CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8 A.D. 1962, A.L. 5962
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12 A.D. 1962, A.L. 5962
Copyright 1962 by Grend Lodge F. & A. M. of Celifornie
Printed in the United Stetes of America. All righh in this book ere reserved.
No pert thereof mey be reproduced in eny menner whatsoever without written
permission from the Grend Lodge of Celifornie, except thet quotations mey
be embodied in reviews by such other Grend Jurisdictions es heve been
recognized officielly by this Grend Lodge. For information eddress Grend
Secretary, 1111 Celifornie Street, Sen Frencisco 8, Celifornie.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

ONE HUNDRED THIRTEENTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One Hundred Thirteenth An~
nual Communkation in the California Masonic Memorial Temple on
October 8th, A. L. 5962, at 10:00 a.m.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LoDGE

Master
R. ·. W. ·.IRA W. CoBURN •••.•................................•.•Deputy Grand Master
R. ·. W. ·.ELMER W. HEALD•...................................Senior Grand Warden
R. ·. W. ·.THEODORE MERIAM ..•.............................. ./unior Grand Warden
V. •• W. ·.ARTHUR M. WARREN •................................•......Grand Treasurer
V. •• W. ·.EDWARD H. SIEMS ••....•..................•.................... Grand Secretary
V. •• W. • .Do:NALD G. CAMPBELL..................................•.....Grand Lecturer
v.·. R .".JESSE R. KELLEMS..............................................Grand Chaplain
W. ·.CLARE B. CAMPBELL••..............•.........Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.HAROLD N. RICHARDS ........................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.ARTHUR J. KAHN ................................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.RAYMOND G. TAYLOR........................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.RALPH W. CoLLINS ..........................• .Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. •• W. BEN SoRRELLS............................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.RoBERT B. WAITS •..•..................••......•••••..••••..••••••• Grand Orator
W. ·.PAUL A. PFLUEGER..........................Assistant Grand Treasurer
W. ·.VERNE W. HENDRIX..•.....................Assistant Grand Secretary
W.'.JoHN F. PoRTER. .•.••..........................•.••••..••....•..•Grand Marshal
W. ·.ROBERT E. GREEN •..•.............................. Grand Standard Bearer
w.·.c. LELAND JENKINS•..••..............................•Grand Sword Bearer
W.".CLARENCE E. GLAZE..••................................Grand Bible Bearer
W.'.HENRY M. WELCH .•••.....................•.•....... .Senior Grand Deacon
W. ·.WILTON J. SMITH ....•................................ ./unior Grand Deacon
W. ·.GEORGE C. PoLOYNIS ..............................Senior Grand Steward
w.-.AHOON H. WoNG.....•....•.........................Junior Grand Steward
W.'.BERTRAM C. VON KoNSKY...........................•••Grand Pursuivant
W. ·.HAROLD .MuELLER.•••...•...................................•..Grand Organist
W.'.DAVID WRIGHT•••••••••••.•••..•....••...•••••••••••••.•••.•...••..••••• Grand Tiler

M. •• W. ·.Guy B. MIZE•••••...•...............................•.....••........Grand

8

9

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND OFFICERS

APPOINTM ENTS

PAST GRAND MASTERS

The Grand Secretary announced that the Deputy Grand Master had
appointed Harold S. Morrison, Louis L. Cunningham and Niles 0.
Millar to serve as the Committee on Distribution.

M.".W.".LEON 0. WHITSELL
M.".W.".LESLI E E. Woon
M:.w:.JoHN R. MooRE
M.".W.".EDWA RD H. SIEMS
M ... w ... ELLSWORTH MEYER
M:.w:.Loms

TELEGRAM S SENT
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send an appropriate telegram to each of the absent Past Grand Masters.

c. DRAPEAU

M.".W.".ARTH UR M. WARREN
M.".W.".FRAN K HARWELL, JR.
M.".W.".HENR Y c. CLAUSEN
M.".W.".EDGA R V. STEWART, JR.

M:.w:.L. HAROLD ANnERsoN
M.".W.".LEO E. ANDERSON
M.".W.".PHIL N. MYERS

M:.w:.JoE L. SHELL
M.".W.".ALFR ED F. BRESLAUER
PAST GRAND LECTURER
v:.w:.ELBER T w. DAvis

One thousand four hundred forty-two officers and representatives
from 683 chartered Lodges and six 1.odges under dispensation, 1113
Past Masters. and 30 distinguished guests from other jurisdictions were
reported as present, and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened
in ample form, following which the Flag of our Country was received.

TELEGRAM S RECEIVED
The Grand Secretary reported having received telegrams of congratulation from the following :
Past Grand Master Oscar Lawler
Past Grand Master Chester H . Warlow
Grand Master Walter A. Ray of Nevada
International Order of Job's Daughters of California

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DEVOTIONAL SERVICE

created equal. Not only so, but such a position is utterly incapable of
historic or •scientific truth. If there is any truth which is self-evident, it
is that men have not been created equal, that they have never been equal,
and that they will never be equal. Jefferson knew this, of course. His
whole position is an amazing religious assumption. Men are created by
God and are equal before Him and His laws. They are endowed by
God with certain inalienable rights. Upon this magnificent postulate of
faith, this statement which flies in the face of all historical and scientific
facts, Jefferson and his aristocratic associates, established the United
States of America, which has been the most astounding success, governmentally, economically, and spiritually, in the history of the world!
The writer of the Hebrew Epistle, in the greatest faith chapter in
the New Testament, defines the meaning of faith with clarity and power.
(Heb. 11: 1 ) "Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the
conviction of things not seen." Faith is the assurance that the things
which ought to be-<:an be. But it is more than assurance; it is the motive
power which drives us to do something about what ought to be. By
faith-the devoted medical scientists believed that polio could be cured
and they did something about it. Through endless research, toil and
tears, they persisted until the cure was found. By faith we believe that
we can eradicate cancer, and through faith, we shall continue until the
cure is discovered.
But faith is also "the conviction of things not seen." The unseen
is not unreal-it is only unseen. Our constant fellowship with the unseen, and our utilization of it is now commonplace. No man has ever
seen an atom, but the atom is real and not merely an assumption. We
can see what it does and we know how it acts, but it still is unseen. A
pessimistic friend to whom I was recently expounding plans for our
future church building-to keep pace with our ever-expanding University, gloomily interjected, "Doc, it is all a waste of time and money.
Some day the Commies will drop a hydrogen bomb upon us and blow
us all to hell." I replied, "It may blow you to hell, but it will blow me
straight to Glory."
Electricity has relieved us of much of t)ie drudgery of our world.
It lights our homes and cities, speeds our electric trains upon their waiy,
drives our water-pumps, cooks our food, but we do not see it. We know
it only by its surging power.
Love is unseen. We can see the results of love making the world
a sweeter place in which to live. We know it in all the delights of a
lovely home, in blessed deeds of helpfulness and healing, but love itself
we cannot see. Though unseen it is real, the mightiest force in the world!
The ether around us in this great ball is pulsating and vibrating,
feebly or strongly with hundreds of ·radio programs from near and taroff radio stations. We cannot see the programs-nor the pulsating waves

FAITH FOR AN HOUR OF PERIL
THE VERY REVEREND JESSE RANDOLPH KELLEMS,

D.D .• PH.D •• S.T.D •• LL.D •• LITT.D.
Grand Chaplain
That this is a time of deadly peril, when, from day to day, we know
not what the next hour may bring to us, is obvious to every American.
Modern man now has the power actually to destroy the whole world.
Not only is this dreadly possibility within his power; there are evil men
who would do this monstrous thing and are deterred only by the certainty that the decent people of the earth would retaliate in such awesome manner that the attackers would themselves ·g o down into the awful
hell of fire and thunder of such a catastrophe.
The peril of this hour is the more frightening when we contemplate
the inaptitude of little, timorous men in high places. Unfortunately for
our times, we have no Winston Churchill to call the forces of God to
high endeavor, or to speak in tones of thunder to a world sinking into
despair. The feeble pronouncements from Washington sicken all men
of high courage who know that the whole rotten Communist system is
built upon sand. Atheism cannot win this titanic battle. Let us tell the
world so in words of courage and power. Only by a return to God, His
Word, His mighty promises and His invincible might, can our world
be saved kom utter destruction. Only by a return to faith, to the courage
of our founding fathers, and to the unshakable promises of Almighty
God, can this sweeping tide of atheism, immorality, and surrender to
tyranny be stopped.
A distinguished cousin of mine, Thomas Jefferson, wrote some very
strange words in the Declaration of Independence. Considering the
type of man Cousin Tom was, they were strange indeed. He was an
aristocrat of the artistocrats. We Randolphs did not consider his Jefferson blood to be very blue. But he was half Randolph, and obviously
from that noble strain his genius sprang. Great champion of the people,
he did not care for them individually. He was, however, very much concerned about the principles which undergird human liberty. He certainly made a tremendous assumption when he wrote, "We hold these
trnths to be self-evident that all men are created equal, and that they
have been endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, and
among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." There is
truth, however, in the cynical paraphrase of the old Negro preacher that
"All men are created equal-and some more equal than others." But
there is not one sh['ed of scientific or historical evidence that all men are

11

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

upon which they ride, but-through the proper receiving-set, we can
tune in and behold a miracle! We see and hear-and are able to talk
to the whole world! Truly faith is the conviction of things not seen.
For a time of peril then, we must have faith-faith in God. This has
ever been the answer of our .Masonic Fraternity. It is indeed, the heart
and soul of Freemasonry. Again to quote the writer of the Hebrew
Letter, "By faith we understand that the worlds have been framed by
the Word of God; so that what is seen hath not been made of things
which do appear." (Hebrews 11 : 3) In what other possible way could
they have been framed, save by His Divine Word and Power?
In the beginning God-we must always begin with God. There is no
other place to begin. "By the Word of God-framed by the Word of
God!" "The heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament showeth
His handiwork."
But how can you prove the Word of God? The answer is, of course,
that I cannot do so. The Word of God is self-authenticating. If God
speaks, if He reveals Himself, He does not need me to interpret HimHe is perfectly capable of making Himself known!
Dean W. P. Patterson of Edinburgh, noted Gifford lecturer and my
own teacher, revered and admired, often said to us, "The Word of God
shines by its own light and prevails by its own might." The whole universe is full of God. It is mind and will and purpose. The basic assumption of all learning is that the universe is intelligible: we can read it,
measure it and understand it. If intelligible, then it is the product of
intelligence. Open your mind and heart and let God speak-for He does
speak in rock, and wood, and star, and flower. By faith and faith alone,
we can understand, for faith is the motive power of all research; the
certainty that we can find the answers, because we are thinking God's
thoughts after Him. We can find the answers because the universe is
not only the product of mind, but it is a universe of law. Have faith in
God, follow him, serve Him, "Dare the Heroes' March" with Him and
your life will be full of joy and victory.
In an hour of peril we must also have faith in our fellow men. It is
not only Christian, but it is also American to believe in the innate dignity of our fellow men. Man, created in the likeness and image of God,
is of superlative worth. He is capable of the highest and the best. We
must believe that, and do all we can as those who have the privilege of
education to help all men to that stature to which God intended they
should be brought. As Masons, we should be careful about the flippant
use of such terms as, the average man or the little people. These are
terms which have no place in our American vocabulary. Who has the
right to call any man "the little man" or an "average man"? By what
yardstick does any superior being measure the average man?

One of the mightiest texts in the Bible is the great word of the
Apostle Paul: "I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth
me." ( Phil. 4: 12) Here then, is the gospel of imperial will, "I can, and
by the grace of God, I ·will." There are no impossibilities to men who
dare the march of faith!

13

Recall the words of Jesus, "If ye have faith as a grain of mustard
seed, ye shall say to yon mountain, 'Be removed, and it shall remove,
and nothing shall be impossible unto you.' " He meant tMs spiritually
and literally. I sailed once through the Panama Canal. and at the Culebra
Cut I saw .the place where a whole mountain of dirt and rock had
been removed by faith. By faith, we could remove Mt. Whitney, if
it were needed and we desired to do it. Faith created the mighty engines
and explosives of shattering power, which make it possible to do impossible things. Believe me, it is all by faith, "the assurance of things
hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.''
We must have faith in our country-believe in it, love it, defend it.
Among free men, love of country, as it appears in song and story, is
always centered in the love of land itself; its people, speech, history,
literature, and the institutions guarding its precious liberties, are extolled as having been born of the land. It is always, therefore, the homeland, the fatherland, the motherland, the nativeland.
Sir Walter Scott dips his racing pen in holy scorn as he writes of
the wretch who has no love of country:

.

"Breathes there a man, with soul so dead,
Who never to himself hath said,
'This is my own, my native land!' "
Or attend to the fairest love song that ever poured from a patriot's
heart as the immortal bard of Stratford extols his adored motherland, the
proud mother of the free:
This royal throne of kings, this septer' d isle
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
This other Eden, demi-paradise,
This fortress built by nature for herself
Against infection and the hand of war,
This happy breed of men, this little world,
This precious stone set in the silver sea,
Which serves it in the office of a wall
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
Against the envy of less happier lands,
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England;
This land of such dear souls, this dear, dear land.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Have faith in your country! Our fathers did not talk about "The
Americ an way of life." What silly twaddle is this? Who knows what
the American way of life is? It is, of course, what any individual American thinks it to be. They talked about freedom, and man's righ~s and
his £esponsibilities to preserv e the institutions which guarded their pr~­
cious liberties. They were in love with the land: they had conq~ered it
and tamed it, and they loved every rock and rill of it. It was theirs, and
they would shed every drop of blood to keep it.
Our land is great because it is free and good. The monstrous ty~ann~
of Communism which enslaves half the world cannot endure.' It is evil
and it must fail. The time approac hes when it will go down m fire and
blood to the hell from which it came. God speed that happy day!

My country. 'tis of thee
Sweet land of liberty,
Of thee I sing:
Land where my fat hers died
Land of the Pilgrim's pride,
From every mountain-side
Let freedom ring.
My native country. theeLand of the noble freeThy name I love:
I love thy rocks and rills
Thy woods and templed hills;
My heart with rapture thrills
Like that above.
Let music swell the breeze
And ring from all the trees
Sweet freedom's song
Let mortal tongues awake
Let all that breathe partake
Let rocks their silence break.
The sound prolong.
Our fat her' s God to thee,
Author of liberty
To Thee we sing
Long may our land be bright
With freedom's holy light
Protect us by Thy might
Great God. our king.

15

GRAN D MAST ER'S MESSAGE
Guy B. MIZE, Grand Master

My Brethren:
Once again, through the inexorable passage of time, we assemble in
annual communication, not only to review that which is past but, what is
more important, to transac t our annual business and plan for the future.
This is the 113th Annual Communication of our Grand Lodge.
What an inspiration it would be if we could review this morning the
story of Freema sonry in this Jurisdiction as told by Masoni c leaders
of the past who have stood before their brethre n in annual communication to report on progres s during their terms as Grand Master. What
a privilege is ours, though, in being able to read of the accomplishments
of our brethre n in the Proceed ings which chronicle each year of California Masonr y. And now, we are privileged to add one more page
to the story and we are pleased that the opportu nity has come to us.
It is a humbling experience indeed for one to kneel at the altar of
Masonr y to receive the charges and assume the obligations apperta ining to the office of Grand Master. In the same attitude , I now stand
before you to give an account of my steward ship: acknowledging to
all my brethre n sincere thanks for their suppor t-not only to me as
an individual but, more important, to the Fratern ity of which we are
a part. In our deliberations this week, may we be guided by the teachings and princi)!lles of Masonr y; and may the presence of the Great
Archite ct of the Univers e be reflected in all our doings.
This has been a busy year but no more so, I am sure, than for
Grand Masters who have precede d me-fo r ours is a busy Grand
Lodge requiring much time and attentio n from those who serve it. The
monthly itineraries which have gone out to all concerned reflect a
considerable number and variety of interesting ceremonies. Exhibit s
attache d to this message will list in detail the various events and I
will report only certain highligh ts of the year.
May I, at this point, acknow ledge the support and assistan ce of
Past Grand Masters to whom I have turned for counsel, to my fellow
Grand Lodge Officers, to the members of the Ritual Committee, to the
Inspectors, to the Committeemen, to all in the Grand Lodge office who
assist the Grand Master in so many ways. To the Grand Secreta ry
and the Assista nt Grand Secreta ry-and here are •included both Brother
Henry D. Oliphan t, who retired June 30, 1962, after many years of
faithful and devoted service, and his successor, Brother Verne Hendrix-I pay a special tribute for they have been of tremendous help
to your Grand Master.

16

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

NECROLOGY

had been granted by Grand Lodge at its last Annual Communication
were constituted and five new Lodges received dispensations and wer~
instituted. Cornerstones of six new Masonic temples were laid including
the reconstructed Lodge Hall of Los Angeles No. 42, the first Masonic
Lodge in Los Angeles.
Nine new Masonic Temples. each a noteworthy addition to the list
of temples i~ C~lifomia, ~ere ~edicated. Very important, though. were
the ceremomes m connection with public buildings. On eleven occasions
cornerstones of public school buildings were laid; on three occasions.
all in the San Joaquin Valley. we were privileged to lay the cornerstone~ of ~ivic buil~ings! four new schools were dedicated, using the
beautiful ritual provided m our Book of Ceremonies. We were delighted
to be asked to re-lay the cornerstone of one of California's early
Methodist churches located at Georgetown, in the Mother Lode
country. The original cornerstone of the Church, before it was moved
to its present site, was laid by Georgetown Lodge No. 25 well before
the turn of the century.

In the early part of this Masonic year came the sad news of the
passing of our Past Grand Master and Past Grand Secretary, Most
Worshipful Lloyd E. Wilson. It was with heavy heart that we convened Grand Lodge in this Auditol"ium and, using the simple burial
service of the Master Mason, paid our last fraternal tribute to our
illustrious brother.
Then, once again, the final summons came and this Grand Lodge
suffered the loss of a noble man, one whose name was favorably and
respectfully kown to Mason and non-Mason alike-our revered Past
Grand Master, the Most Worshipful Charles Albert Adams. Word
of Brother Adams' passing came to me as I reached the Hawaiian
Islands for my official visits to our Lodges there. Masonic services for
Brother Adams were conducted by the Grand Lodge with Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master, officiating.
THE YEAR'S WORK

There was only one item of unfinished business referred to me at
the close of the 1961 Annual Communication, that of appointing a
special committee for the preparation of a new Trial Manual. I
appointed a committee of three, chairmanned by Worshipful Everett
Houser, and the work of the committee will be brought to your attention through a resolution presented by Worshipful Albert F. Ross.
Chairman of the Grievances Committee. The able services of the special
committee and the results of its labors have been approved by the Chairmen of the Jurisprudence and Grievances Committees and by your
Grand Master.
The Special Committee on Masonic Historical Monuments reporting at the 1961 Annual Communication made certain recommendations
as to procedures in protecting Lodge records. I directed at the beginning of the year that the work in regard to Masonic historical monuments be assumed by the Masonic History Committee. The latter is a
Standing Committee and, inasmuch as the activities of the two committees are parallel in most oinstances, I felt that the one special committee could be discontinued.
One of the favorite questions of a Grand Lodge officer is, "Which
way shall we travel?" Whether by car, by plane or, on occasion, by
train, the total mileage traveled during the year was quite impressive
and my only regret is that, with a business to think of, there was not
time to go into every section of our Jurisdiction and meet with all the
brethren. As it was, total mileage traveled approximated 36,000 miles
of which all but 10,000 miles were by air.
In the course of the year's travels, including able assistance on occasions when the Deputy Grand Master or the Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens officiated in my stead, six new Lodges, for which charters

17

"YV"ith the ever-lengthening span of years a number of our Lodges
attained 50th, 15th and 1OOth anniversaries during the Grand Lodge
year. It was my privilege to be present at several of the celebrations
including the joint observance by San Miguel Lodge No. 285 and Pas~
Robles Lodge No. 286 of their 15th anniversaries and the 1OOth anni.
versary observance by Woodland Lodge No. 156.
During the year your Grand Master attended approximately 40
breakfast, luncqeon or dinner receptions sponsored by combinations of
Masonic Districts, Boards of Relief. Masters and Wardens Associations and other Masonic groups. Too much praise cannot be given
to those who arranged and sponsored these meetings, thus enabling
your Grand Master to meet with so many brethren where otherwise
he would not have had that privilege. I was able to attend two of the
Divisional Conferenc~s ~eld by the Ritual Committee for Inspectors.
the Annual Commumcation of the York Rite Bodies, several special
meetings of Scottish Rite Bodies and annual meetings of several of
th~ appendant bodies. For the warm, friendly receptions and hospitality. extended by so many in these organizations, my sincere appreciation is extended.
OP SPECIAL MENTION

~o one of our newer and smaller Lodges. Riviera No. 780, goes the
cre~it for o~ganizing the outstanding cornerstone ceremony for the

Palisades High School in Pacific Palisades on Sunday, November 19,
~961. Ably assisted by neighboring Lodges the ceremony was held
in the presence of some 4,000 people including approximately 800
Masons who wore their white aprons and formed the lines for the
Grand Lodge Officers. It was the first cornel"Stone ceremony in many

18

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

years in the Los Angeles School District and those who planned that
noteworthy event are entitled to the commendation of their brethren.
Another Southern California Lodge, Seafaring No. 708 at Newport
Beach, was responsible for four cornerstone ceremonies during the
year-three elementary and one high school. These. and the many other
·school ceremonies, were each an outstanding event. Our thanks go to
the school officials, the members of school boards and the interested
citizens of the various communities for affording us the opportunities to
lay cornerstones or dedicate completed school buildings. In a number
of instances, considerable opposition was expressed by certain groups
to the Masonic Fraternity being permitted to perform its ceremonies,
after being requested to do so by properly constituted authorities. We
would remind one and all that Freemasons do not claim the right to
participate. We only say that it ~s an honor and a priv~lege as citize~s
and as members of the Masonic Fraternity to be of service to the pubhc
school system and, as in the annual observance of Public Schools Week,
we welcome the support of the citizenry in all that we do for the benefit
of the schools. Particularly do we thank the press in those commund~
ties which gave factual, unbiased publicity to the ceremonies.
An unusual event took place in the cornerstone and plaque ceremony
in connection with the restoration of the original Masonic Temple once
occupied by Los Angeles Lodge No. 42. Scheduled, at one time, to be
destroyed by slum clearance and freeway projects the Lodge Hall
was eventually included in the State restoration project designed to
create a State Historical Monument consisting of buildings which once
housed businesses or organizations so important to the early life of Los
Angeles, when its population was approximately 1700 persons and all
activity centered around the old Plaza. When completed, the m~n~ment
will be one of the outstanding attractions for those who v1s1t Los
Angeles. It is to be expected that maniy thousands of Masons and friends
will, in due course of time, visit the Lodge Hall and admire the fixtures,
furniture and furnishings of a period dating back more than 100 years.
On August 25, 1962, it was our privilege to i>pen the Grand Lodge
in the present Lodge Room of Los Angeles No. 42, in the new Scottish
Rite Temple, and then proceed to the site of the Old Hall and there
lay the cornerstone of the restored building, which is in the area set
aside as EI Pueblo de Los Angeles State Historical Monument. Our
thanks go to the State of California and its officiaJ.s who approved the
inclusion of the Masonic Temple fa the restoration project: to the
Division of Architecture of the Department of Public Works, repre~
sented in particular by one of its members, our brother Orvel B. John~
son, who was in direct charge of the project: and to the several City
and County Boards whose approvaJ.s were so necessary in getting the
job done. For a number of years, while the project wa~ only in. the
planning or, really, dreaming stage, Grand Lodge had its committee

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

19

to help plan the project. Although the membership of the committee
changed from time to time, there was one member of the committee,
Matthew Codon (Master of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 in 1923), who,
more than anyone else, was responsible for the completion of the project.
Brother Codon made the restoration of the Lodge Hall his personal
goal. and he lived with it for a number of years contributing time,
money, energy and ability.
The Masons of Caliifornia thank all who had any part in bringing
to fruition this Masonic monument which will be open for all time to
come--to Masons and non~Masons alike. Our lease with the State will
require us to furnish a custodian during suitable hours · in order that
the public may inspect the ·Lodge Hall as a part of the Monument.
We will also be obligated for certain operating expenses. The lease
provides that we shall have exclusive use of the Lodge Room at appro~
priate hours for Masonic meetings and it is anticipated that many
Lodges, as at the Masonic Temple at Columbia, will want to use the
Lodge Room for the conferring of degrees and for other special purposes.
I recommend that the Special Committee, designated as the Old
Masonic Hall in Los Angeles Committee, be recognized as a regular
Special Committee in the same manner as the Columbia Temple Com~
mittee and that it be a continuing committee. It will be necessary to make
the operation of the Old Hall of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 self~sustain~
ing to the fullest extent possible. In all probability, the Grand Secretary
will be the clearing house for engagements and will collect the fees to be
established for the use of the Hall. Rules and regulations governing the
operation of the Hall will have to be prepared by the Special Committee
in conjunction with the Grand Secretary, all with the approval of the
Grand Master.
Two Past Grand Masters came to the rescue during the year and
represented Grand Lodge when it was necessary for its Officers to be
elsewhere. A number of years ago. at the Mare Island Naval Shipyard,
Vallejo, a plaque had been placed on a building honoring the memory of
John Mills Browne, Commodore and Surgeon~General of the United
States Navy. Commodore Browne was a member and Past Master of
Vallejo Lodge No. 87 and was Grand Master in 1875, 1876, 1877 and
1878. Thanks to the interest of our brother, Admiral Honsinger, Com~
mander of Mare Island Naval Shipyard, we :were asked to officiate at
the placing of the plaque in a permanent location in Alden Park on the
Naval Base. At my request Past Grand Master Alfred Breslauer repre~
sented the Grand Lodge at the rededication ceremony on March 17,
1962, and the word which came to me was that Brother Breslauer offici~
ated in the able manner demonstrated on so many occasions during his
term as Grand Master.
On May 12, 1962, Past Grand Master Leslie E. Wood journeyed
over to Carson City, Neveda, to represent California Masonry at a

20

21

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ceremony in Carson Lodge No. 1 (formerly Carson Lodge No. 154,
California) commemorating the issuance of its charter 100 years ago by
the Grand Lodge of California. We are proud that eight of our Lodges
were the nucleous of the Grand Lodge of Nevada. As that Grand Lodge
nears the 1OOth anniversary of its founding we, in California, join in
saluting our neighboring Grand Jurisdiction and its Lodges which were
once a part of the Grand Lodge of California. Our thanks are extended
to Brothers Wood and Breslauer for representing us so ably on these
two special occasions.
In mentioning these engagements, we are mindful of the importance
to the communities and to the Fraternity of each and every event in
which we were privileged to participate. To all who had a part, in any
way in them, we say "Well done-the than~s and appreciation of the
Fraternity are yours."

To all our brethren in the Islands and their lovely, gracious ladies, we
are deeply indebted for their warm reception of us and for their many
kindnesses. I am sure that we, on the Mainland, share with our brethren
in Hawaii their concern for the orderly development of Masonry in the
Islands in whatever manner will most redound to the honor and glory
of the Fraternity.

HAWAII

One of the highlights of the Grand Master's year is his visit to that
part of the Jurisdiction most distant in miles but as near as his own Lodge
in the warm, fraternal spirit which reaches across the Pacific and brings
our two States together as one.
Accompanied by Mrs. Mize, I flew to Hawaii and spent five days
on the Island of Maui before plunging into the round of
Hana-Maui
at
official visits to the ten Lodges on the Islands of Maui, Hawaii, Kauai
and Oahu. There was sufficient time available to visit with the Officers of
each Lodge, our brethren on the Kona Coast of Hawaii, the York and
Scottish Rite Bodies in Honlulu and the Potentate and members of his
Divan of Aloha Temple in Honolulu. There were four official visits
when the Grand Master appeared in full regalia and was received with
Grand Lodge Honors. I am glad to report that on all other occasions a
more informal spirit prevailed, and it was not necessary to concern myself with what the tourists, dad in Aloha <Shirts and muu-muus, thought
as I strode hurriedly through hotel lobbies in tails and white tie.
The visit to the U.S.S. Arizona, through the courtesy of the Master
of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598 and Admiral Ray Needham, was a
sobering experience. The wreath which was placed on the platform over
the Arizona, in the name of the Fraternity, was with the hope that never
again will the people of any nation experience the tragedies of war such
as we did at Pearl Harbor. A new memorial structure was in the process
of being erected over the resting place of the U.S.S. Arizona. Scheduled
to have been completed and ready for dedication last December 7th, the
anniversary date of World War II, Admiral Needham said that the
completion and dedication was re-scheduled for Memorial Day, May 30,
1962. He was pleased that it was to be so for the dedication of the monument could then be in the spirit of devotion, heroism and patriotism for
one's country rather than as a reminder of hate for a tragedy which
could not be undone.

OTHER VISITS

Although your Grand Master was denied the privilege this year of
visiting neighboring Grand Jurisdictions on the occasions of their Annual
Communications, we were well represented at Arizona, Nevada, Oregon,
Washington, Idaho and British Columbia by other elective Grand Lodge
Officers. Other Jurisdictions than these extended invitations to their
Communications, and we regret that the pressures of business-fraternal
and otherwise-prevent ed acceptance in each instance. To the representatives of those Jurisdictions who are with us at this Communication,
and whom we will have the pleasure later of welcoming individually, we
bid you a hearty welcome and trust that you will find our hospitality
acceptable and that you will profit as much by being here as we will by
having you with us.
It was my privilege to attend the sesquicentennial celebration of the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Louisiana in New Orleans on February 4, 5, and 6, 1962. The hospitality of our brethren in LoU<isiana
cannot be exceeded and, by the way of special events, Masonry was presented to the public in a most effective and appropriate manner.
Later in the month of February, I joined with the Deputy Grand
Master in attending the Annual Conference of Grand Masters of North
America, held in Washington, D.C., and the Annual Meeting of The
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association at the
Memorial Build•ing in Alexandria, Virginia. California lost its member
on the Board of Directors of the Association in the passing of Past
Grand Master Lloyd Wilson but our Jurisdiction was once again recognized when your Grand Master was elected a Director to serve the unexpired portion of Brother Wilson's term. I would call your attention to
the completion of the twelve dioramas depicting events in the life of
George Washington which are now on display in the A<Ssembly Room
of the Memorial Building. Lloyd Wilson was one of the principal sponsors of the Dioramas, and they will constantly remind us of his devotion
to the George Washington Masonic National Memol"ial and of the
twenty years he served as a member of its Board and Executive Committee.
Also in our Nation's Capital. at the same time, attending the Annual
Conference of Grand Secretaries were our Grand Secretary, Edward H.
Siems, and our then Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant. We
are happy to rep<;>rt that although Brother Siems has been Grand Secre-

22

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

tary for a relatively short period his abilities are already well recognized
by his fell ow Grand Secretaries and he is a welcome newcomer in their
circles.

I regret to report though that we had two instances of consolidations
of Lodges. The details of the consolidations will be found in the report
of the Grand Secretary. Although we dislike to see Lodges which have
been a valued part of this Jurisdiction pass out of existence, consolidations whic~ leave us with strong Lodges, rather than Lodges which may
be strugglmg to do a good job, are, in all probability, to be desired.
Changing times, relocation of population, other economic factors may
prompt more consolidations in the future.
The Committee on Lodge Financing has again experienced difficulty
with a few .Lodges which have embarked on programs governed by our
regulations but for which the necessary prior approvals of the Committee
were not obtained. Our regulations, as 's et out in the Code, are clear and
there can be no excuse for Lodges or Temple Associations failing to
comply. The Committee is for one purpose-to help-not hinder. In addition to being able to offer sound advice on building and financing problems, the Committee is in position to counsel on the problems inherent in
operating Lodge properties.
We can be proud of the esteem in which our magazine, The California Freemason, is held not only in our Jurisdiction but throughout the
Mason.ic world. The staff of the Freemason and the Correspondence
Committee labor hard, and we appreciate the high standards set in publishing the California Freemason. The Board of Control, Boards of
Relief, Committees on Sojourners, Masonic History, Education, Cemeteries, DeMolay-these, and the committee which are administrative, and
the ones which function during Grand Lodge Week are indispensable to
Grand Lodge and our thanks go to all of them.
It was my privilege to meet with the Board of Trustees of the Mas~nic Home~ of California on three occasions dul'ling the year and you
will be most mterested, I am sure, in their annual report. Our two Homes
are great monuments to Masonic charity and require the type of able,
dedicated Masons which we have, serving as Trustees, to insure a successful operation.
Although I have been speaking of Grand Lodge Committees, let us
never forget for one moment that the ultimate success of all that we do
hinges upon the loyal, enthusiastic support of the counterparts of the
Grand Lodge Committees. I refer to the work done by the constituent
Lodges at the local level. There is ample evidence to support my statement t~at more and more Lodges are accepting the plans, suggestions
and guidance of Grand Lodge Committees and this is good - for the
Lodge and for the Craft as a whole. Certainly the Public Schools Week
program was helped materially by the committees in San Francisco and
Los Angeles, operating independently of but in conjunction with local
Lodge committees and the Grand Lodge Committee.
I have reviewed with the Chairman of the Public Schools Week
Commit~ee the ~rogram of the past year and of several years immediately
preceeding. With all that has been accomplished, it is evident that a

THE CRAFT AT

w ORK

It would take far more time than is at my disposal to adequately
describe what has been accomplished by those who man the front lines
in the Grand Lodge program. The reports of the many committees will
be presented during the Communication and will be printed in the Proceedings.. To all committeemen, I speak the heartfelt appreciation of
your brethren for jobs well done.
It is not proper, nor desirable, to single out certain Committees over
others, but it is good to be able to report success in our Public Schools
Week Observance, in our Constitution Observance, in our support of
the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund and, in fact, oin all activities for
which committees have been established by action of Grand Lodge.
Please remember, my brethren, that the committees listed in your program were created to take care of definite needs in the over-all plan of
Masonry and that, whether their work is done in front of or behind the
scenes, it is all for the benefit of Masonry and is deserving of your
commendation.
I observed during the year the never ending efforts of the Committee
on Commercialism to restrain those who knowingly, or unknowingly,
violated our laws respecting commercial ventures, advertising, gambling,
and solicitation of gifts. In addition to suppressing the activities of the
few so-called Masonic magazines still operating in California by way of
solicitation of advertising, the Commercialism Committee carried on
extensive correspondence with appendant organizations relative to bazaars, food sales, rummage sales and the like. It was necessary for me to
issue warnings to two Shrine Temples because of infractions of Masonic
law. In like fashion, several Lodges and members of Lodges were reprimanded for not adhering to our laws, rules and regulations. The Commercialism Committee does not relish having to police the various organizations nor does the Grand Master enjoy meting out discipline. But,
when required, it must and will be done or Masonry will suffer. Fortunately, the necessity for discipline is not a major problem, and I know
that you who are here as representatives of your Lodges stand behind
our laws and those who must enforce them.
The painstaking examinations made by the Charters Committee of
the .five Lodges receiving dispensations made it easy for me to approve
the petitions for dispensations. It is interesting to note that these Lodges
achieved the distinction of being recorded on the Merit Roll of the
Memorial Temple and the Honor Roll of the Endowment Fund. It is my
understanding that there are excellent prospects of other Masonic Clubs
being ready to apply for dispensations in the not too distant future.

23

24

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

great deal more can be accomplished, if the Committee can be enlarged
so as to have members in strategic sections of the State. It is my understanding that the enlarged program of the Public Schools Comm~tt~e
has been discussed with the Deputy Grand Master and that he, too, is in
accord with a request that the membership of the committee be increased.
Accordingly, it is my recommendation to this Grand Lodge that the
membership of the Public Schools Committ ee be increased to fifteen
members and that Section 192 Californ ia Masonic Code be amended
accordingly.
With cespect to the Columbia Masonic Temple in the State Historical Monume nt at Columbia, it fa evident that steps should be taken to
improve the opportun ities to inspect the Temple by those who go to
Columbia with the hope and expectat ion of viewing this Masonic monument, particula rly during the so-called tourist season. We cannot expect
our brethren at Columbia, or Sonora, to always be available when there
is need for the Temple to be open for inspection. During the past year.
the Universi ty of the Pacific, through its Presiden t, Brother Ro~ert .E.
Burns, has presente d a plan to us which contemplates the Univer~1ty
using the ground floor of the Columbia Temple for a museum featurmg
historical items dealing with early Californ ia history. Provision would
be made for the exhibit of Masonic memorabilia. A curator would be provided for the museum, and his services would make it possible for our
Lodge Hall to be viewed by many who might otherwis e be permitte d .to
gaze only at the exterior of the building as they pass through Columbia.
To enter into such an arrangem ent obviously requires consideration of
the proposed agreeme nt between the Universi ty a.nd the Gra~~ ~ge;
the approval by the State of California, through its proper. ~1v1s1~n, as
lessor; and determination on our part that the proposed exhibits will not
detract from the Masonic characte r of the Columbi a Temple.
I recommend that the proposal of the Universi ty of the Pacific be
referred to the incoming Grand Master with power to act subject to approval by the Chairme n of the Committees on Jurisprudence.' Policy an~
General Purposes and Finance to the extent that the functions of their
committees are involved.
Early in the Grand Lodge year I received reports indicatin g tJ;i;at the
Culver-P alms Pyramid No. 57, Order of Sciots, had staged a Hobo
Dinner" party in its Lodge Rooms in Los Angeles and that civil. and
Masonic laws were v.iolated at the party by reason of the sale of liquor
without license. Upon ascertain ing the alleged facts to be true, I interdicted all Masons residing in the Jurisdiction of Californ ia from membership in said Pyramid . A copy of my interdiction, dated March 29, 1962,
i·s attached to this message for your consider ation and disposition.
Immediately after the issuance of my order, the head of the Supreme
Pyramid of the Ancient Egyptian Order of Sciots calle~ on me and
assured me that it was his intention to co-opera te fully with my order.

He arrested the charter of the offending Pyramid and that is where the
matter stands today. I can state further that it is my opinion the Pharaoh
of the Sciots has endeavo red to see that Sciot Pyramid s and their members obey the laws of Freemas onry.
In preparat ion for the Centenn ial Year of this Grand Lodge, an appropriation was made for the purchase of new regalia for Grand Lodge
Officers. The new regalia was worn for the first time at the opening of
Grand Lodge in October, 1950, and with this Communication will have
been in use for thirteen years. We have two "travelin g" sets of Grand
Lodge regalia, one being so shabby it should not be used. These sets are
customarily used away from this Temple. A study of Grand Lodge
engagements during recent years clearly shows an increase in number
from year to year, and we find ourselves, on occasion, in the position of
having two ceremonies scheduled on the same week end in different parts
of the State. I believe that it is necessar y to provide for new regalia and
make the following recommendation: That an appropri ation be made for
a new set of Grand Lodge regalia with the thought in mind that the
present set, used during the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, be
considered as the reserve set and that the so-called traveling set be continued as such. The regalia being worn today is, or was, attractiv e when
new, but white velvet and elaborate gold thread and fringe are perishable and add consider ably to the cost of the regalia. I make no recommendation as to whether or not the new regalia, if approved , should be
of the same type we now have or the blue and gold as formerly worn.
Further, my recommendation contemplates other equipment as is needed
for ceremonies such as candle stick holders, vessels for corn, wine and
oil and a sword, etc.
The Finance Committee in its report at the last Annual Commun ication (see Page 311 of the 1961 Proceedi ngs) called attention to the fact
that Brother Lloyd Wilson had chosen voluntar ily to retire under the
physical disability provision of our Retireme nt Income Plan effective
January 1, 1962. He had elected to apply for a monthly pension of
$254.05 in order that, should his wife survive him, she would contiinue to
receive a monthly pension in like amount during the remainde r of her
life. The untimely and unforeseen death of Brother Wilson occurred on
November 2, 1961, before the necessary requirem ents for the pension
to begin January 1, 1962, could be completed. Grand Lodge was committed for the year ending December 31, 1961, to continue Brother
Wilson on his regulac <Salary. It was estimate d that it would take him
until December 31, 1961, to complete the special assignments previously
given to him by Grand Master Alfred F. Breslauer. Effective January
1, 1962, Brother Wilson was to receive $254.05 monthly from the
Retirement Income Plan and a supplemental monthly allowance in the
amount of $745.95. I ordered that payment be made to the Estate of
Brother Wilson represen ting the salary which would have been paid

25

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

to him for the month of November, 1961, had he lived. On the basis of
need. and taking into consideration the fact that had Brother Wilson
lived for only a few more weeks the arrange ment for the pension protecting both him and Mrs. Wilson would have been completed. I further ordered that the sum of $254.05 be paid monthly to Mrs. Wilson
beginning December 1, 1961. I present the detail of my action to this
Grand Lodge for its approva l.
Bear in mind, my brethren , that provision had been made in the
budget for a supplem ental pension of $745.95 per month to Brother
Wilson , whereas I was only authoriziing a monthly paymen t of $254.05
to the widow, Mrs. Wilson . Grand Lodge, in the operation of the Retirement Income Plan, will further benefit in years to come in that its contributions to the Plan will be lessened by reason of the fact that some
$25,000.00 had been contribu ted by Grand Lodge as its share towards
future retirement benefits to be paid to Brother Wilson . With the appl4cation for his retirem ent and pension rights incomplete the plan will not
have to continu e certain reserves and Grand Lodge will benefit thereby .
As this problem now stands, there is no provision in the Retirem ent
Income Plan for Mrs. W Hson, nor should aniy paymen ts to her be considered in the light of a pension. The implications and establis hment of
precede nt as to employees or relatives of employees preclude the advisability of so labeling any such benefits which might be paid by Grand
Lodge. There is no question in my mind but that Grand Lodge should,
and will, make adequa te provision for the needs of Mrs. Wilson as they
may be from time to time, and I suggest that, following the policy established for the widows of other Past Grand Masters , the Finance Committee make provision in its budget for a monthly allowance to Mrs.
Wilson , the same to be charged to the Grand Master 's Relief Fund. For
guidance, the Finance Committee and the Grand Treasur er have available a study of Mrs. Wilson 's income and expenses for the period since
Brother Wilson 's death. I. for one, knowin g that at all times a fair
picture of the situatio n will be available, would be willing to accept
recommendations of the Finance Committee and the Grand Treasur er
each year as to an appropr iate monthly allowance designed to take care
of Mrs. Wilson 's needs.

RECOMM ENDATI ON No. 1

26

1

1

RECOMM ENDATI ONS

Six recommendations have been present ed to you for your consideration. Three, in particul ar, are designe d to close a gap and fill the
need for a proper recitation in the CMC of the powers and duties of
Grand Lodge and/or the Grand Master with respect to the corporations
administering the affairs of this Memori al Temple and the Mason k
Clubhouses at Berkeley and U.C.L.A .
My recommendation's are listed here as a part of the record.

27

~ur so-~alled. exploding population and predictions of hot or .cold
war ave given rise to an increase in our naval a~d mi·1·itariy stations
,
camps and installations Our law now e .t
of
crew
the
of
ers
mem
s
rmi
P
h
f
I
~
to
certain naval vessels
period of 6 months. In or~~r~o ~~~I; ~~r;:fe ~~t~a~:f!c~ th~J.:n for a
n m1 i ry perf
sonnel general ly and to eliminate the nee "t
sts for special
MrCequbee
Co
esl~J'
Section
that
end
recomm
I
ations.
dispens
amende d as
follows:
foll~::~: between the first and second sentences of said section the
.1.
A uniformed member of a U ·t d St
eligible to apply for and receive~~: de ates mi itary or n~val facility is
hhaving juris~iction of the location of s~c~sf~~il~;s;~~Jnda? Lodge
e . o~ever,
t at such uniformed member has resided at sa "d f T
pe1"1od of
~~~.a
:p~l~?at
six months immediately precedi ng the date of ~is
RECOMM ENDATI ON No. 2
.
t .
The Californ ia Masoni c Cod
s~ctions set~ing
ropr1ate
aKf
:::d
otth~nG
powers
the
forth the duties and
aster relative to appomt ment of members to the B d f T
0
California, the Board of Co~:ol. ~he M:::~c A~he ~a~onic HomBes of
mes n owmen t oard
and the general supervision of said Boards.
and the By-Laws of th C ]"f
~ltMhough _the Articles of Incorporation
. e aI avid
asonic Memorial Temple
ornia
e, among other things. that
directors or tru;;tees their numbe ~
ance w~th th_e Constit ution, Rulesr:O~ J:~~ ~{i~!c:/~~I i:a~n accordth~Cahform a Masonic Code does not contain sections defining r:~~e,
a~ I powers o~ the Grand Master in relation to provisions in the 1rt~c::
Te:;~~poration and the By-Law s of the Califor nia Masoni c Memorial

1

tt

G
D
Current ly, the Board has eleven trustees ·• th
. e eputy rand Master,
the Senior and Junior Grand W d
:e:~~ ~; ~r:~::~~~~io,
~nd eight. t~ustees appointed for :~u~~a
s er.
can s f I b
Board
the
of
n miy opiruon the membership
t~ a
redhuceSd
te
Gran~
Deputy
the
include
to
trustees
nine
total of
eruor
e
t
er,
as
d
d
W
d
and Junior Gra
ar ens an six trustees who will serve three yeaT
n
terms.

M

.
This realignment of the Board of Trustee s of the Californ ia Ma
1
pttt;rn_ establis hed for other
~ere shall be elected a Presid :: Vic:ln~r~~~:~es f~oT whose ranks

!!~i:i°bi:~1:.fri :d"ci!!i!~ll~wathe

con=~~~~

G=~~d~=~fc:~i~~r~S:.n holdidg the office of Gra~~ se:r:~~~~f ~~=
.
M Th~ ~tides. of Incorpo ration and the By-Law s of the Cal"f
~
T;u~~~
present
the
asomc emorial Temple should be amende d and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. 0
b 12 1962 to comply with the following
shou ld resign, effective
cto er •
•
recommendation.

1. Life of the corp orati on is 50 years , expiring
December 31, 1971.
2. Purp oses for which the corpo ratio n was form
ed were to be in acco rdance with rules, regul ation s and discipline of
the Gran d Lodg e of
Free and Acce pted Maso ns of Calif ornia whic
h as then existing or
there after amen ded were to be a part of the
corporation, and the
corporation was alwa ys to be subje ct there to.
3. Num ber of directors or trustees to be nine
in number to be elected
and appo inted as provided by the rules and regu
latio
Lodg e of Free and Acce pted Masons of California ns of the Gran d
.
4. The corporation, not being formed for pecu
niary profit and incorporated as a non-profit corporation, was not to have
5. By-laws state that directors are to be Mast er Masocapital stock.
ns of good stand ing in Maso nic Lodges chart ered unde r the Gran
d Lodge Free and
Acce pted Maso ns of California: to hold office
for three year terms:
to be elected from activ e members of the corpo
ratio n, prov ided however, the perso n or perso ns nominated by the
Gran d Mast er shall be
eligible to and shall be elected a director or direc
tors of the corp oration. At all times, "the Grand Mast er shall have
at least one representative on the Boar d of Dire ctors ."
6. Directors shall have powe r to borro w mone
y prov ided two- third s of
the entire Boar d appro ve.
7, Mem bersh ip in the Club to cons ist
of three classes, to-w it: Active,
Associate and Hono rary. Direc tors only ones
to be classed as Activ e
members.
'· All prop erty of the Club (corp orati on) dedic
ated
trust by the corpo ratio n for stipu lated purposes. to and to be held in
9. Annu al meeting of members of the Club on
third Thur sday of Janu ary of each year.

28

RECO MME NDAT ION

•

d to the Ordi nanc es m the
I recommend that a new Arti·cle be adde
d Artic le IV..A and that it be
Calif ornia Maso nic C~de t~ bMe num~eM orial
Tem ple:" Article IV-A
tl'tled "Tru stees of Calif ornia asonic. em
f
ll
·
ct1on
s·
shall be composed ofth e 0 owmgdsP
· The Trus tees of the Calif Section 226. Appo !ntT ent
a c~we;;~tion. shall be nine in number.
ornia Maso nic Mem orial emte :: r anJJ unior
Gran d War dens shall be
The Depu ty Gran d Mast er,
1~ Trus tees shall be appo inted by the
Trus tees ex-officio. The other six
ch rovid ed however, that the
Gran d Mast er for terms of thre~ Y.ear-Tsea te'eps
hall exp'ire at the close of
appointive rus
terms of one- thir d o f. sa id
.
f Gran d Lodg e each year. Whe re a vaca ncy
the Annu al Communication o f th
ai'nder of the unex pired term.
. t
occu rs the appo m
.
ee s hall serve or e rem
Th
ointi
e
The Gran d Mast er may remove a~ app t ve Trus tee at any time.
of the Boar d of Trus tees.
Gran d Secr etary shall alwa ys bet ;.~ec~ fi'qu
alifie d Trus tees shall be
Section 227. Titl~. to i:'rop~rttaso:icuMemorial
Tem ple," .i n whic h
the Trus.tees of :h; v~:1~~tl:: title to all prop
erty,
real a~d perso nal,
corpo ratio n sha1. e
. 't
in any way become entitled.
and rights of action, to ~h1~h 1 fm:a rd Said
Trus tees shall orga nize by
Section 228. Organization o
h .1
ca.
f
ffi
h year at t e c ose o f the Annu al Communi
the election o o cers
hall adop t by-la ws for their own gm·dance
tion of Gran d Lodge.
eyf ssaid corporation, which by-la ws ·t hey may
and for the management. o
ll sub. ect to the appro val of the Gran d
alter or amen d at any timeh a . ht Jto incur
indebtedness, but not to
Mast er. They shall have t e rig
f
th
Gran
d Mast er. The Gran d
'th
cons ent o
e
borro w money w1 ~ ut the
.
d
Mas ter shall at all times h ave the right of visitation and inspection, an
the supervision of the entir e man agT: nl.f ruste
es shall submit a print ed
Section 229. Annu.al Repo rts.L adeeat the begin
ning of each Annu al
Annu al Repo rt in detail.to Gran dt'
Communication respectin.g oper a ions ~nd the condition of the asset s and
liabilities of said corporation.
RECO MME NDAT ION No. 3

in

,f1{

MASO NIC CLUB OF THE UNIV ERSIT Y
BERK ELEY , CALI FORN IA

•

A .1
f Incor porat ion of The Maso nic
On December 27, 1921, ~tic
~ o
draw n
Club of the Univ ersit y of Cahfd~rniat wseroer trust and signe d by nine
ees On Sept embe r l,
or
incor porat ors to b e kn own as 1rec
ti n chan ing the· name of t h e corpo 1948, amen ded artic les of inhcoUrpo.ra o·ty Beri
eley Calif ornia were filed.
s1 ,
•
ratio n to M asoni·c Cl ub of t . e niver
d
mpan
ying by-la ws disclose the
Exam inati on of the artlc1e~ an acco
following facts amon g other things.

COM MEN TS AND SUGG ESTIO NS

29

Now here in the Calif ornia Maso nic Code is
there refer ence to the
Maso nic Club hous e exce pt as to blank et fideli
ty bond. Alth ough classes
of membership are defined in the Articles of Incor
porat ion, the only control of the corpo ratio n and clubhouse prop erty
rests in the nine man
board of directors. Erec ted by priva te subscriptio
n with the appr oval of
Gran d Lodge in 1924, maintenance of club prop
erty since the begin ning
has been by Gran d Lodg e appropriations.
I sugg est that articles of incorporation and by-la
date and that, among othe r things, the following ws be brou ght up to
chan ges be made.
a. The life of the corpo ratio n be chan ged to that
of a perp etual corp oration.
b. That the Maso nic Hom es of Calif ornia be
desig nated as the beneficiary of the asset s of the corporation upon disso
lution.
c. That the numb er of Dire ctors be incre ased
to fifteen in number, all of
whom shall be Past Masters of and members
of Lodges chart ered
unde r The Gran d Lodg e of Free and Acce pted
Maso ns of Calif ornia :

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that said director s be appoint ed by the Grand Master for three year
terms with five directors to be appoint ed each year. Upon adoptio n of
this amendment, five directors to be appoint ed for a one year term,
five for a two year term and five for a three year term, etc.
d. That the annual meeting of the corpora tion be scheduled to coincide
with the close of the annual communication of Grand Lodge so that
appoint ment of directors by the Grand Master will be effective at
the time of said appoint ment rather than at a later date.
e. That the power of the Board of Directo rs to borrow money be subject
to approva l by the Grand Master.
f. That amendm ents to By-Laws be subject to approva l by the Grand
Master.
g. That appropr iate sections be added to the Californ ia Masoni c Code
to reflect propose d changes in Articles and By-law s of the Masoni c
Club of the Univers ity, Berkeley, and establis h the powers of the
Grand Master and the Grand Lodge as they relate to the Masoni c
Club.
As I see the picture, Masons built the club house, but the Grand
Lodge has maintai ned it. To be a true charity, one recognized as such
should be the ultimate benefid ary. The director s could direct otherwi se
if dissolution became necessary. The working board of director s could,
if deemed advisable, be augmen ted by the Deputy Grand Master, the
Senior and Junior Grand Warden s. I feel very definitely that the powers
of the Grand Master should be set out fo the CMC, and that the articles
and by-laws of the Clubho use corporation should be in accord. Althoug h
I have not obtaine d the figures, I would judge that over the years, appropria tions by Grand Lodge far exceed the cost of building the Club.house. Surely a substan tial portion of original subscribers to the building
fund are deceased.

C l'f .
Club of the Univers ity Berkel
hold titles to all assets ~f said c~ra~i~~~ma, a corporation, which shall
Section 233. Organization of th Bo d s .do·
by ~he election of officers each yeareat t~: ~los: of t~=~o:s shtg organi~e
~:~0; ;ft~;and Lodge. Th~y s~all adopt by-laws for thei~~:.n ;::a:~;
alter or ame:::~g::en~ o sa~d co1:J>oration, which by-laws they may
Master. They sh II h y ti~e, ~I~ subJ~ct to. the approva l of the Grand

30

31

0

;~wpeau:;!~:ri ~fii!h~:~i::·~~1~/~~ ~:!~~~~~~~.~.:;

ision o t e entire management.
A Sec{~n 234: ~nn~al Reports. The Directo rs shall submit a printed
nnua .ep~rt in etad to Grand Lodge at the beginning of each Annual
f h
Communication respecting operatio ns and the cond'f
i ion o t e assets
and liabilities of said corpora tion togethe r with
the ensu.ing year which shall be ireferred to the Co:!~~~;:d ;.udget ;or
n mance or
appropr iate consideration by Grand Lodge.
RECOMM ENDATI ON No. 4
THE MASON IC CLUB-U NIVERS ITY OF
CALIFOR NIA AT Los ANGELE S

.
. .
Incorpr ated in 1925, and built in 1929• a somewh at similar
situatio n
I
k
n_
t
A
UCL
at
revails
P
· · . . as a .ue:r e ey.
Althoug h the two Masoni c Clubs were created for the sa
~~~~;~~:~~ed ctifferences in their respective Articles of 1::C~;~:t~~~
1

1

RECOMM ENDATI ON

I recommend that a new article be added to the Ordinan ces in the
Californ ia Masoni c Code to be number ed Article IV-B bearing the title
"Direct ors of the Masoni c Club of the Univers ity, Berkeley, Califor nia"
and that the following sections be added thereun der:
Section 231. Appoin tment of Directors. The directors of the Masoni c
Club of the Univers ity, Berkeley, Californ ia consisting of fifteen shall
be appoint ed by the Grand Master for terms of three years each, provided, however, that the terms of one-thi rd of the directors shall expire
at the close of the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge e¥h year.
Where a vacancy occurs the appoint ee shall serve for the remaind er of
the unexpk ed term. The Grand Master may remove a director at any
time.
Section 232. Board of Directors and Title to Property. The duly
qualified director s shall constitu te the Board of Directo rs of the Masoni c

1
·

~~:a1;;~i:·~·7;1ubhouse corporation has a 50 year life expiring

2. No referenc e.is made in Articles or By-Law s to the effect that th e
f F
rules, regulations and discipline of the Grand Lod
Acc~pted ~asons of California are applicable to the ~:a~d r~i:nd
ector~ in their manage ment of the assets or the operatio n of the C orporation.
3. ~he Board of Directo rs consists of 15 members each of h
ea Master Mason fo good standin g and a Past Master o'!: om mu~t
. ( BMaksolmc
Lodge of the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Cal"£
er e ey
i ornia.
has 9 directors. )

0

4.

Al~o~ghhap&ointments of directors to the Board are customarily

r:aster at the close of the annual communication
::.: ~ .1,.~.~ . ian~
d
oar oes not confirm the appoint ments of the G

ran
M aster until its annual meeting in Ma f II .
ng
precedi
tt~
T~winJ
Grand
of
annual communication
annual
ey
e
er
e
.
year.)
each
of
January
in
is
meeting

Lodg: {

32

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE
COMMEN TS AND SUGGEST IONS

•

f

d u estions as to amended Articles o
In general, my comments£ an hs
onic Clubhou se at Berkeley also
Incorpor ation and By:Lacf~hC:u~eeat t~: Universi ty of Californ ia at Los
pertain to the Masonic u
Angeles.
h Id b . accord for they are similar in purpose
Essentia lly, they s ou
em
and operation .
f
. t sections in the Californ ia
Here, too. I am asking or happrop na ef the Grand Master and the
Masonic Code to show clearly.t Celpobwhers o t UC L.A.
the Masonic u ouse a
. .
.
Grand Lo d ge as t o
f
d d Articles of Incorpor ation
amen
e
To implement my suggestions or
M
. Clubhou ses and my recomand By-Laws for each of the ftwo
ason.icte sections in the Californ ia
mendatio ns (Nos. 3 a:.d f E or af{H~~~~ has been asked to prepare
Masonic Code, Wors ip u vere
f
nd By Laws and the presisuitable amended A~tic~s 0 ~lnc£6~:~t~~ ~f the ;wo Clubhou ses have
dents of the respective oarl sToh B ds of Director s of the two Cluboar
been nob·fi e d o f my proposa s.d d eArticles
of Incorpor ation and By -Laws
houses should adopt the amen e .
. of Grand Lodge and be preto be effective as of ~he dose 1~~h~s s::;~c~ive corporat ions in order that
pared to resign as directors o
e1r r . t directors in accordan ce with
the incoming Grand ~aster mdy da){'i'~~~les and By-Laws.
and for terms set out m amen e

lf

4?

RECOMM ENDATIO N

.
b added to the Ordinan ces in the
I recommend that a new artic1e be d Article IV -C bearing
the title
Californ ia Masonic Code t? bcfu~~eUniversity of Californ ia at Los
"Direct~~s of the Masonic . sections be added thereund er:
Angeles and that the following . t
The directors of the Masonic
Section 236. Appointm f.7t of. Dir:cr:;s ·Angele s ·consisting of fifteen
Club -Unive rsity of Ca i orn1a
t s for terms of three years each.
shall be appointe d by the Grand
er third of the directors shall exprovided . however, that the termsCo one- ·cation of Grand Lodge each
pire at the close of the Annua~ ~m~~:~ee shall serve for th~ i'emainyear. Where a v~can<:y occTurhs Ge pd Master may remove a director at
der of the unexpire d term.
e ran
any time.
.
d Title to Property. The duly
Section 237. Board of ~irectors an rd of Director s of the Masonic
qualified directors shallCconl.sftttu~e t~e~~a Angeles a corporation, which
Cl b - Universi ty of a I ornia a
.
•
sh~ll hold title to all as~ets .of safidh~o1oo:;;io;~id directors shall organize
Section 238. Organiz ation o t
t the close of the Annual Comby the election of officers eac~lear ~ ll adopt by-laws for their own
munication of Grand Lodge.
er sf ~aid corporat ion which by-laws
guidance and for the mdnageme~ o 11 subject to the' approval of the
they may alter oTrhamenh lalthany t~~e;i;ht to incur indebted ness. but not
Grand Master.
ey s a
ave

M

r

33

to borrow money without the consent of the Grand Master. The Grand
Master shall at all times have the right of visitation and inspection, and
the supervision of the entire management.
Section 239. Annual Reports. The directors shall submit a printed
Annual Report in detail to Grand Lodge at the beginning of each Annual
Communication respecting operation s and the condition of the assets and
liabilities of said corporation, together with a proposed budget for the
ensuing year which shall be referred to the Committee on Finance for
appropri ate consider ation by Grand Lodge.
RECOMM ENDATIO N No. 5
Question s have been propoun ded to me during the year in reference
to Lodge procedur es on requests for withdraw al or dimits from membership.
Section 447, CMC- Methods of Dimitting, states that withdraw al
may be accomplished at any time by a member of a Lodge, in good
standing . against whom no charges are pending, and whose dues are
paid, giving notice of his intention so to do at a stated meeting. Section
447 further states that a "certificate of the fact of such withdraw al'' may
be issued by the Lodge. No form for such certifica·t e of withdraw al has
ever been approved by Grand Lodge.
Section 448, CMC-F orm of Request for Oimiit, Section 449,
CMC-Fo rm of Dimit, Section 450, CMC - Dimit of Candida te, and
Section 451, CMC - Certificate of Standing offer ample evidence of
the dimit being the necessar y evidence of the steps required for severance
or transfer by affiliation of membership.
Section 557, CMC-Af filiation, clearly shows that an applican t for
affiliation must produce a dimit from the Lodge of which he was last a
member (Californ ia or otherwis e) or furnish a written request to his
Lodge for a dimit as a condition necessar y to applying for membership as
an affiliate. Evidence in the form of a dimit, in such a case, is most helpful
not only to the applican t but to the Lodge as well.
A member desiring to withdraw from membership in his Lodge cannot secure a dimit unless he is in good standing at the time of giving
notice, has no charges pending against him, and whose dues are paid.
Thus he may be consider ed worthy of, although not entitled to, a recommend atory certificate except by vote of his Lodge as provided for in
Section 447, CMC. However , the vote of a majority of members present
for the issuance of a recomme ndatory certifl.cate may well be a decided
minority of the total membersMp of the Lodge.
Generall y speaking, it is not the present custom in the business world
to issue a letter of recommendation to an ex-employee, addresse d to
whom it may concern. Exempla ry conduct in the past is no guarante e
that it may continue in the future. Not all Grand Lodges provide a dimit
in the form of a recomme ndatory certificate. The conditions under which

34

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

a regular dimit can be obtaine d in our Juris~ic~on ~ons?tut~ a ~ecom­
mendation for the dimitting brothe r and there 1s httle justification,
1f any,
for preferr ing one member over anothe r.
RECOM MENDA TION

That Section 447, CMC, first paragr aph, be amend ed to read
as
follows:
A member of a Lodge in good standin g, agains t whom no charge s
are pending, and whose dues. are ~a~d, may .wi.thdra~ therefr om
at any time by giving notice in writing of his intention so to do
at a stated meeting. Upon such notice, the Master of the Lodge
shall order the Secret ary to issue a dimit forthwith in the form
provided as evidence of such withdr awal: further
That section 447, CMC, be amend ed by deleting therefr om
the fourth paragr aph which reads "The provisions of this section
shall in no way deprive the dimitting member o~ the b~nefits of
this section as it relates to a recomm endato ry certificate. : further
That the sixth paragt"aph of Section 447, CMC, be amend ed
by deleting therefr om the last senten ce w~ich reads "a multiple
member thus withdr awing shall not be entitled to a recommendatory certificate provided for in Section 452."; further
That Section 452, CMC, Form of Recommendatory Certificate, be deleted from the CMC: further
That the following decisions ·recorded in CMC be deleted:
Sections 447-g, 447-h, 447-1, 452-a and 557-h; further
That Section 359, CMC- By-La ws, cont. (Withd rawal ~~om
membership) Section 4, be amend ed by d~leting there~rom but
no recommendatory certificate shall be issued to him unless
ordere d by the Lodge.": further
That section 378, CMC- Status of Members, be amend ed by
deleting therefr om that portion which reads "which certific~te
shall have the same effect as the regular recomme;,idatoiy cert.1ficate of withdr awal dssued by an existing Lodge, and inserting
in place thereof the following - "w~i~ icertificat.~ shall have the
same effect as a dimit issued by an existing Lodge.
REcoMM ENDAT ION No. 6
At the beginn ing of my term as Grand Master , I was asked
on
several occasions to appoin t well qualified and able b~ethren to Gr~nd
Lodge comm ittees- men who though Master Mason s in good standin
g
in this Jurisdiction, were not members of Grand Lodge. T~e P?ssibi
lity
of such appoin tments has again been brough t to my attentio n in
recent
weeks.
It is implicit in our law that members of all boards and committees
of Grand Lodge must be members of Grand Lodge. In order to
spell
this out in direct language, I recommend as follows:

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

35

RECOM MENDA TION

That Section 191, CMC be amend ed by adding at the end thereof
the following:
The members of all boards and committees of Grand Lod9e
shall be members of Grand Lodge.
DECISIO NS

During the year a goodly number of questio ns were propou nded
to your Grand Master , answer s to which were found in the Califor
nia
Masonic Code. These are not reporte d as decisions for there
is no
need to record in this message replies or rulings which need not
be
annota ted in the Code. Some questions require d detailed ·investigations
to ascerta in facts in order that the Grand Maste r could determ
ine a
course of action. As in prior years, the assista nce of Assista nt Grand
Lecturers and Inspec tors was invaluable in such cases, and I expres
s
my gratitu de to all who were so helpful when called upon.
There were eight decisions render ed which to some degree affect
our law as it now stands. The decisions are submit ted herewi
th for
your consideration.
DECISIO N No.

1

Questi ons have arisen respecting investment of funds under Section
403 CMC, as follows:
1. Do the provisions of said section apply to Lodge Templ e or Mason
ic
Templ e Associations? Under Section 402-1 of CMC the Lodge
must hold title to the building and/or land used or suitable for temple
purposes and ~n which it has invested Lodge funds: and under
Section 402-2 a Lodge or Lodges shall own a controlling interes
t
in memberships or shares of a corpor ation which holds title to such
proper ty used or suitabl e for temple purposes. Since a Lodge
or
Lodges in either event controls and in effect owns the proper
ty
of such associations, it appear s that the funds of such associatiions
are subject to the invest mpt rules laid down by Section
403
including the rule requiring submission of propos ed investments
to the Investment Adviso r used by Grand Lodge.
2. Respecting saving s accoun ts and investment certificates in saving
s
and loan associations under catego ry 3. ( c) of Section 403 CMC,
is it require d that propos ed investments in •such accounts and certifkate s be submitted to the Investm ent Adviso r used by Grand
Lodge? The services of the Investm ent Adv·isor relate to securities only, such as stocks and bonds. Strictly speaking accoun ts and
certificates in saving s and loan associations are not securities. They
are in effect deposits of money backed by an instrum entality of
the
Federa l Govern ment.
My decision, concerning the two questions, is as follows:
The provisions of Section 403 of the Mason ic Code apply to
Lodge Templ e Associations and to Mason ic Templ e Associ a-

37

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.
H
Lodge Lodge Temple Association or Mabons. owever, no
•
d
b "t t th Invest
sonic Temple Association is require to su m~ . o e t
ment Advisor used by Grand Lodge propose .~nSst~en ~O~
the type specified under category 3. ( c) of sai .flee i~n
to wit. savings accounts in and investment certi ca es an
shares. issued by building and loan and savings and loan associations.
DECISION No. 2
I was asked iif capital gains distributions by closed_ ~d inv~st:~t:!
companies and mutual investment fundsb whosea s~~::sof~~e :orpus
an investment of life m~mbersdhip funds, Id e~~me hep distributable to the
of such Hf e membership fun . or w~u. . ey
Lodge to be used for regular Lodge activities.

that the ceremonial is symbolic and that changed and modern construction do not require a true supporting stone. 137-f CMC. This
establishes an interpretation precedent.
·
5. Support for our public school system has been one of the prime
purposes of Grand Lodge for more than forty years. Perhaps,
because of certain opposition no cornerstone ceremony has been
conducted in the City of Los Angeles for a public school for more
than twenty years. The ceremony in laying the cornerstone of
Palisades High School was well attended and enthusiastically
applauded by all, including teachers, parents and school officials.
It is hoped that it will represent a break-through to a revival of
such ceremonies. Personally, I would not have chosen Sunday to
perform the ceremony but the time element was not in our hands.
The date was selected by the school officials and it was up to us to
take the ceremony or leave it. Because of our long-standing interest
in public schools, it is my opinion that the cornerstone laying ceremony at Palisades High School. conducted on Sunday, was in
accord with the spirit of Masonry.
My deciision is therefore, as follows:
Cornerstone laying and dedication ceremonies for public school
buildings or other exclusively public buildings may be conducted
on Sunday without infringing the spirit of Masonry.
DECISION No. 4
In considering the subject of Lodge ·rosters, and the extent of
information concerning members pertinent and proper to be published,
I am of the opinion that it is beneficial to Lodges and their members
that certain ·information as to each member be available.
In reviewing our law as it now stands, particularly Section 334-c,
I see no prohibition to including in Lodge rosters the business or vocation, address, and telephone number of members in addition to home
address and telephone number.

36

f

d

DECISION

Mutual investment trusts and certain corporations desi~?ate. distl'ibutions or dividends to their share .?r c~rbl"fica~e h~ldehr~t~~r ~~d1;:s~
"
d ..
•t I ains .. Such capita gams, w
•
income an
capi a g . ·
rn of invested capital
additional shares or cert1fkates, repres:rit a retu
d S t•
404
.
for life membership purposes un er ec ion

cf~cf~Fh~;:::~:~~
~ ~~~~;~:!~~ng:rs;;a~:
U~1\::;r::~~~~o~~
%o:~:
o re res m
.
C S h "ordin
income, however, is

~m:view
ofd Secti~dn S4elc~io~~M a~~ revenue~nder said Section 412.
mcome un
er ·sa1

DEc1s10N No. 3
.
On Sunda • November 19, 1961, I conducted a Cornersto?e .layu~g
t liie Palisades High School, a public school building, m
~~~eC~~y o~ Los Angeles. This activity appeared to be in accord with
the s irit of Masonry for the following reasons:
t
1. O~r Ordinances are sil~t respe~ting CornC~s~onT;er~m~;~:~c~~e
th
uest to perform m Section 137
·
e g .
f
e req f G
d Lodge to conduct such a ceremony derives rom
::e:t;ndinrantradit ion and the form thereof' which is embodied
in 2~r book gof Ceremonies. does not prohibit a Cornerstone Cere-

f

mon! on SundCaMy.C
h"b"t Lodge (not Grand Lodge) meetings
2. Section 326
pro 1 1 s
S nday except for funerals.
S d
Sn ~ 326 CMC holds "A Cornerstone Ceremony on un ay
3. . ect10~
-c
. . f M;·son ." I assume that this related to a
is against the spmt o
C ry
. which event the decision
L dge Temple Cornerstone eremony, m
I f h
.o
d f r the Lodge and the Grand Master have contro o t e
is soun o
0
blk buildings they do not have such
time for such ceremony. n pu

o~!r~~emony for laying cornerstones requires that the stone be
4. laid when the foundation is re~~y for •itc~nd not c\11~~
Grand Lodge approved a decision by
ausen,
. .

t:w

1

DECISION

Our law embodied in Sectfon 334-c, California Masonic Code does
not prohibit the listing of the business or occupation, business address
and telephone number of members in a Lodge roster.
DEc1s10N No. 5
I was asked if a brother who had willed his body to a university
for medical research and who, in his will, had requested a Masoniic
funeral service could receive the same. His request was supported
by his widow and by the members of his Lodge, it being noted that
the deceased brother had a long and distinguished record of Masonic
service.
Section 604, CMC states in part that "every Master Mason who
dies in good standing is entitled to burial with Masonic honors, regardless of the disposition which is to be made of his remains." No mention

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

is made as to whether disposition is prior or subsequent to a funeral
service.
Section 605-g, CMC holds that the Masonic funeral service is
symbolic.
In answer to the question put to me, I held that the Lodge making
inquiry could conduct a Masonic funeral service for the brother who
had willed his body to a university for medical research.
DECISION

A Masonic funeral service may be held for a deceased brother who
dies in good standing and for whom proper request for burial with
Masonic honors has been made, regardless of the disposition of his
remains or the fact that his remains may not be present at the funeral
service.
DECISION No. 6
Question at hand is whether a Council of Allied Masonic Degrees
(attached to the Grand Council of Allied Masoni~ De~rees ?f t~e
United States of America) whiich is stated to have existed m Cahforma
since prior to September 27, 1957, as ,a non-degree body, can now moor
to itself a Royal Ark ,Mariner Lodge which does confer degrees.
It is further stated that membership in a Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons is a prerequisite to membership in a Council of the Allied
Masonic Degrees. This prerequisite is established because most of the
degrees under the jurisdiction of the Grand Council have ~ Royal Arch
prerequisite as well. This, however, creates a problem with respect to
certain members of Lodges of Royal Ark Mariners from other jurisdictions, who are not, of necessity, Royal Arch Masons and who cannot, because of this lack of a prerequisite degree, and perhaps also
because of the membership limitation by number, hold fraternal communication with their fellow Royal Ark Mariners in the United States.
The Grand Council of Allied Masonic Degrees meets this problem
by authorizing each of its constitu~t. Co~ncils to h~ve "moored" to it
a Royal Ark Mariners Lodge, perm1ttmg 1t to open m that degree only
and to receive visitors and members who are not Royal Arch Masons.
Each "moored" Lodge, therefore, generally has affiliated with it a few
members at least who are not members of the parent Council of Allied
Masonic Degrees.
None of the organizations listed above has ever been established,
sponsored or sanctioned by the Gran~ Chapte: of R?yal :Arch Masons
of California or by any other Masomc body m Cahforma.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

39

No. 7
In 1956 a member of a Lodge, holding a certificate of life membership, against whom no charges were pending, applied in writing for
withdrawal of membership, which application was read at a stated
meeting. Acknowledgement of the request for withdrawal and its reading at a stated meeting was made in a letter from the sec,retary of the
Lodge to the brother requesting withdrawal. No certificate of withdrawal, more properly termed, a dimit was issued by the Lodge to
the brother.
DECISION

In 1962, said applicant requested reinstatement to membership,
and the Master of said Lodge now seeks a decision on procedure.
DECISION

Under Section 447, CMC, action by the Lodge on the request for
reinstatement to membership by whatever means is unnecessary. In
the absence of a dimit issued by the Lodge, membership never terminated and no reinstatement proceedings are required.
Membership not having terminated, the applicant is entitled to all
the rights pertaining to his li£,e membership. Under Section 575, CMC,
since the applicant was never legally removed from the Lodge Roll,
the Lodge is obligated to Grand Lodge for payment of accrued per
capita taxes on the applicant.
1

DECISION

DECISION No. 8
The inquiry is whether it is lawful for a Tabernacle of the Holy
Royal Arch Knight Templar Priests to operate in California.
The facts submitted are as follows:
1. The Order has 33 degrees ranging from Knight of the Christian Mark to Holy Royal Arch Knight Templar Priest.
2. Membership is by invitation only and is limited to those who
have been installed Commanders of Commanderies of Kn~ghts
Templar.
3. Tabernacles have been chartered in some 24 states of the
United States.
4. No Tabernacle has ever been chartered in California and
none has existed here.
5. Said order is not sponsored, controlled, approved nor even
recognized by any York Rite Body of California.
This Order having 33 degrees which it can confer must have a
ritual. Consequently, it comes within the prohibition of Section 332.1,
CMC.

The establishment of a Royal Ark Mariner Lodge in the Jurisdiction of California by a Council of Allied Masonic Degrees. (attached
to the Grand Council of Allied Masonic Degrees of the Umted States
of America) is prohibited by Section 332.1 of the CMC.

Establishment of a Tabernacle of Holy Royal Arch Knight Templar
Priests in the Jurisdiction of California is prohibited by Section 332.1,
CMC.

1

1

DECISION

40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

41

IN CONCLUSION

And now, my brethren, it is time to conclude this report. My
stewardship for the year is ended and while I see things to be done,
I am not unhappy or worried for able servants of Masonry stand ready
to lead the Craft to new heights. The torch which was lighted so long
ago continues to burn and it serves as a beacon to free men.
Masonry has been challenged on many scores-but only by those
who would control the mind and bend the will of man to their own
ideologies. Masonry is for free men-men free to worship God according to their own personal beliefs-men free in the pursuit of life, liberty
and happiness. These freedoms were of paramount importance in the
minds of those Masons who helped write the Constitution of our
Country.
We are accused, on occasion, of being a religion-albeit, a false
religion. This, we deny, for ,it is not true, but as Masons we are proud
to acknowledge our belief in a Supreme Being.
Listen to the words of Carlos P. Romulo, former President of
The Philippines and recently recalled from his post as Ambassador
to the United Nations:
"I am going home, America-farewell.
"For seventeen years, I have enjoyed your hospitality,
visited every one of your 50 states. I can say I know
you well.
"I admire and love America. It is my second home.
"What I have to say now in parting is both a tribute and
a warning: Never forget, Americans, that yours is a
spiritual country.
"Yes, I know that you are a practical people. Like others,
I have marveled at your factories, your skyscrapers
and your arsenals.
"But underlying everything else is the fact that America
began as a God-loving, God-fearing, God-worshipping people, knowing that there is a spark of the
Divine in each one of us. It is this respect for the dignity of the human spirit which makes America invincible. May it always endure.
"And so I say again in parting, thank you, America, and
farewell. May God keep you always-and may you
always keep God."
Thus spoke a man who, though neither an American nor a Mason,
had caught the underlying force and spirit of Americanism and Freemasonry.
Inscribed on the Royal Hawaiian Coat of Arms used by Royalty
until 1898 are the words of King Kamehameha:
"Ua Mau Ke Ea Oka Aina I Ka Pono"
"The life of the land is preserved in righteousness."

Grand Master
The message was received with a standing ovation and was referred
by the Deputy Grand Master to the Committee on Distribution.
SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OF GRAND LODGE

1961
October 6-Constitution, The Gabilan Lodge No. 803, Salinas( Grand Master).
October 7-Cornerstone Ceremony, Liberty Lodge No. 299, Santa
Clara-( Grand Master) .
October 20-Constitution, Moreno Valley Lodge No. 804, Riverside
-(Grand Master).
October 21-Constitution, Yucca Valley Lodge No. 802, Yucca Valley
- ( Grand Master).
November 3-Constitution, Camellia Lodge No. 805, Temple City( Grand Master).
November 4-Cornerstone Ceremony, Taft Civic Center, Taft ( Grand Master ) .
November 18-Cornerstone Ceremony, Palisades High School, Pacific
Palisades-( Grand Master) .
November 19-Cornerstone Ceremony, Georgetown Methodist
Church, Georgetown-( Grand Master).
November 25-Constitution Ceremony, Simi Valley Lodge No. 806,
Oxnard-( Grand Master) .
November 25-Constitution Ceremony, Conejo Valley Lodge No. 807,
Oxnard-( Grand Master).
December 2-Cornerstone Ceremony, Lafayette Lodge No. 126, Sebastopol-( Ira W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).

l
I

j

1962
January 6-Cornerstone Ceremony, Buena Park Lodge No. 357,
Buena Park-( Ira W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
January 13-Cornerstone Ceremonies, Two Junior High Schools, Vallejo-(lra W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
January 27-Cornerstone Ceremony, Ontario Lodge No. 301, Ontario
- ( Grand Master) .

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

February 24-Cornel"Stone Ceremony, Gisler Elementary School, Costa
Mesa-( Grand Master).
April 7-Cornerstone Ceremony, H. Louis Lake Elementary School.
Garden Grove--( Grand Master) .
April 2I-Cornerstone Ceremony, Table Mountain Lodge No. I24,
Paradise--(Theodore Meriam, Junior Grand Warden).
April 28-Cornerstone Ceremony, Sonora Elementary School. Costa
Mesa-( Grand Master).
April 28-Cornerstone Ceremony, Pomona Elementary School. Costa
Mesa-( Grand Master).
April 28-Corneristone Ceremony, Corona Del Mar High School. Costa
Mesa-( Grand Master).
July 2I-Cornerstone Ceremony, C. Fred Schroeder Elementary
School, Westminster-(Elmer W. Heald, Senior Grand
Warden).
August 25-Cornerstone Ceremony, Old Masonic Hall of Los Angeles,
Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles-(Grand Master).
September I 5-Corner.stone Ceremony, County Administration and
Courts Building, Stockton-( Grand Master).
September I 6-Cornerstone Ceremony, new Civiic Auditorium, Bakersfield Civic Center, Bakersfield-( Grand Master).
September 22-Cornerstone Ceremony, Homestead High School. Cupertino-( Ira W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
September 22-Cornerstone Ceremony, new Foothill High School, East
Bakersfield-( Grand Master).
September 29-Cornerstone Ceremony, Ernest Righetti High School.
Santa Maria-( Grand Master).

April I 2-Dedication, burial plot and marker for Chico Masonic Cemetery-( Ira W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
April 29-Dedication, Cinnabar School, Petaluma-(Theodore Meriam, Junior Grand Warden).
May 4-Dedication, John H. Niemes Elementary School, Artesia(John F. Porter, Grand Marshal).
May 26-Dedication of Memorial Plaque, High School, Soquel-Santa
Cruz. Auspices, Santa Cruz No. 38 and Soquel No. 746-(Ira
W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
May 26-Dedication, San Carlos Masonic Temple, San Carlos-( Ira
W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
July I2-Dedication, Burbank Masonic Temple, Burbank-(Grand
Master).
July I 4-Dedication, Palmdale Masonic Temple, Palmdale-( Grand
Master).
August I8-Dedication, Table Mountain Masonic Temple, Paradise
-(Grand Master).
September I6-Dedication, Mayer's Memorial Hospital, Fort Crook
-(Theodore Meriam, Junior Grand Warden).
September 25-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Conejo Valley Lodge
No. 807, Conejo Valley-( Grand Master).
September 28-Dedication, Masonic Temple, Welcome Lodge No.
255, Lemoore--( Grand Master).
September 29-Dedication, Georgetown School, Georgetown-(Theodore Meriam, Junior Grand Warden ) .

SPECIAL CEREMONIES

I96I
October 14-Dedication Ceremony, Sheppard Elementary School,
Santa Rosa-( Grand Master).
October IS-Dedication, Benicia High School, Benicia-(lra W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
October 28-Dedication, Oxnard Masonic Temple, Oxnard-( Grand
Master).
November I 8-Dedication, Orinda Masonic Temple, Orinda-( Grand
Master).
I962
January 6-Dedication, Manchester Masonic Temple, Los Angeles( Ira W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
March IO-Dedication, Blue Lakes Masonic Temple, San Bruno(Grand Master).
March I6-Dedication of Plaque in memory of P.G.M. John Mills
Brown, Alden Park, Vallejo-(Alfred Breslauer, Past Grand
Master).

43

NEW LODGES INSTITUTED

I962
F~bru ary 9-Institution, Los Alamitos Lodge, U.D., Los Alamitos( Grand Master).
March I 4-lnstitution, Victoria Palms Lodge, U.D., Riverside (Grand Master).
June 14-Institution, Woodland Hills Lodge, U.D., Canoga Park (Grand Master) .
August 28-lnstitution, Triad Lodge, U.D., Montebello - (Grand
Master).
October 2-lnstitution, Old West Lodge, U.D., Newhall-(Grand
Master).
RECEPTIONS AND MisdELLANEous

I 96I
October I-Breakfast, San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association.
October 8-Breakfast, San Mateo Officers Association.
October IO-Reception, Unity Lodge No. 368, Glendale.
October I 3-Reception, Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers Association, San Jose.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNI A

PROC EEDIN GS OP THE

308, Sant a Rosa.
Octo ber 1>-Br eakf ast, Districts No. 307 and
Star, Long Beach.
ern
East
of
r
Octo ber 16-- Gran d Chap ter, Orde
355, Hollywood.
No.
e
Lodg
d
ywoo
Holl
Octo ber 19-R ecep tion,
dian Council, Inter naNovember 8-A nnu al Meeting, Gran d Guar
ica.
Mon
a
tional Orde r of Job's Daug hters , Sant
es, Glendale.
Bodi
Rite
November 20-R ecep tion, Glendale York
Pres s Club , Los
onic
Mas
les
November 27-R ecep tion, Los Ange
Angeles.
ersity of California at
December 2-Re cept ion, Maso nic Club, Univ d Mas ter).
Berk eley -(Ira W. Coburn, ~puty Gran
Lodge No. 368, Glendale.
December 12-I nsta llati on of Officers, Unit y
California Research
hern
December 28-l nsta llati on of Officers, Sout
Lodge.
1962
No. 318, 360, 361, Orin da.
icts
Distr
tfon,
Janu ary 19--R ecep
, Unio n City.
Janu ary 20-R ecep tion, Masonic Hom e for Aged
les Masonic Press Club.
Janu ary 24-l nsta llati on of Officers, Los Ange
603, 605, 606, 612,
602,
Janu ary 28-B reak fast, Districts No. 601,
616, 632, San Bernardino.
Rite Bodies.
Febr uary 16--R ecep tion, Los Ange les Scotti sh
er Maso ns Association,
Mast
ty
Coun
ge
Febr uary 25-B reak fast, Oran
Anaheim.
Angeles.
Marc h 3--R ecep tion, U.C. L.A. Clubhouse, Los
ch Service, Los Angeles.
Marc h 4-Westwood Hills Chri stian Chur
- Auspices, Henr y C.
to
Marc h 8-D inne r, Legislators, Sacramen
.
Genl
Clau sen, P.G. M., Sov. Gr. lnsp.
Squa re Club, CaliMarc h 10-L unch eon, San Francisco Insurance
ple.
Tem
orial
fornia Maso nic Mem
, Oakl and.
Marc h 11-E ast Bay Masonic Spring Breakfast
Pedro.
Marc h 16-1 7-Si xth Division Conference, San
596, Lynwood.
594,
Marc h 19--R ecep tion, Districts No. 542, 590,
tees, Covina.
Trus
of
d
Marc h 24-.M eetin g, Masonic Homes Boar
528, 530, 532, 534,
526,
524,
522,
Marc h 24-R ecep tion, Districts No.
Rite Bodies Pasa sh
ScotH
and
York
.
dena
536, 538, 540, Pasa
dena , Shrin e Club.
, Hollywood.
Marc h 25-L os Angeles Board of Relief Breakfast
212, Gras s Valley.
208,
Marc h 30-R ecep tion, Districts No. 120, 206,
d of Relief.
Boar
o
ment
April I-An nua l Spring Breakfast, Sacra
k, Auspices Los
Wee
ols
Scho
ic
April 2-D inne r and Mee ting- Publ
er and Jack
Mast
d
Gran
the
kers,
Spea
42.
Angeles, Lodge No.
ols.
Scho
L. Crow ther, Superintendent, Los Angeles City
Calexico.
n,
ciatio
Asso
April 6--R ecep tion, Imperial Vall ey Officer's
Beach.
Long
f,
Relie
of
April 8-A nnu al Breakfast, Masonic Board
a.
Mari
a
April 13-1 4-Fi fth Division Conference, Sant
0

r of Rainbow for Girls
•
April 1Lo6-GBrand Assembly, International Orde
ng each.
Bod'
Service, Pasa dena Scottish Rite
April 19-M aund y Thur sday
ies,
message by Gran d Mast er.
M Lo B h
April 23-A nnua l Meeting, Gran d Chap ter RA
· · ·• ng eac
A pri·1 25-A nnual Meeting, Gran d Council •RSM Lo Beach ·
• ·• KTng Lo ·B h
' · ery
A Pr'l~ 26- Annual Meeting, Gran d Com mand
ng eac .
·•
• · Calif
.
A prtl 28-S · D·mner and Reception, University
ornia CI hof
prmg
u
G
D
house, Berk eley -( Ira W C b
rand Mas ter).
y
eput
urn,
o
.
aii.
Haw
to
route
n
April 30-E
e No. 472, Kahului, Hawaii.
~=y 4-Re~eptio.n: ~aui Lodg
e, Sant a Rosa.
erenc
Conf
s1on
D1v1
y 5-T hird
Hilo Haw a"11 .
May 7-Re cept ion, Kilauea Lodge No. 330
..
e ' Kauai· H.
Lihu
589
Kauai Lodge No.
May 10-R ecep tion, D·
• awau.
•
·
N
.
t'
lulu.
Hono
18-R
May
ecep ion, istr1cts o. 384, 385,
t, Haw aiian Inspectors and Masonic Offi cer•s A ssoanque
19:-~
May
ciation.
ngee.
~=y ~0-Dinner, Scottish Rite Bod ies-M iltonofBalle
n Al 0 h Shr1"ne
Diva
bers
mem
and
ntate
Pote
y I-Lu nche on,
a
'
lulu.
Temple, Hono
Davis.
May 21-D inne r, York Rite Bod ies-N orma n
Natio nal Park .
mite
Yose
June 1-2-Fo~rth Division Conference,
Lake Taho e.
e,
erenc
Conf
J une 15-16--Fir~t and ~econd Division
tier.
Whit
628,
614,
608,
No.
J une 19--Recepbion, Districts
h
of Job's D
r
Orde
nal
natio
Inter
el Session,
June 22-G ran< l Bethh.
aug ters. Long Beac
kfast honoring St. John the BapJune 24:-TSowenty-eighth Annu al BreaCom
pton.
t1St, uthern Area , Division 5,
Bishop.
502,
500,
June 30-R ecep tion, Districts No.
ita.
Lom
621,
620,
No.
July 18-R ecep tion, Districts
I
Lo A
574
572
570
icts No
July 25-R ecep tion, Distr
• s nge es.
•
•
·
S D
.
July 27 R
er's Association ,
- De~eption, an iego Coun ty Masonic Offic
S ~ ~~
tees, Masonic Homes •
July 28-SQtuartBebrly Meeting, Board of Trus
~aar~

.
Augu st 17-R ecep tion, District No. 114, Red Bluff
former President of
z,
Juare
Augu st 17-:--Presented picture of Benito
z School, Clare Juare
to
Beni
,
Mex icS to ha~g in principal's office
d Mas ter)
Gran
Past
,
Shell
L.
Joe
e
mont. an D1e go-( Judg
uet, Sout hern California De Mola y Con~
September . 9-LoAwards Banq
ventton, ng Beach.
588 Ha th
September I I-Re cept ion, Districts No. 586 and
• w orne.
Se t b 16-B
ers and War dMast
ict,
Distr
nic
Maso
418th
ast,
r~akf
P em er
o.
Fresn
on,
ociati
ens AoSs

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

September 19-Dinner, Grand Commander, Knights Templar, Mesa
Verde Country Club, Costa Mesa.

GRAND LODGE

ANNIVERSARIES

1961
October 9-Golden Anniversaey, Exeter Lodge No. 424, Exeter( Ira W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
October 23-Golden Anniversary, Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422, Los
Angeles-( Grand Master).
1962
June 9-Joint 75th Anniversary Celebration of San Miguel Lodge No.
285, San Miguel and Paso Robles Lodge No. 286, Paso Robles
-(Grand Master).
July 21-Centennial Celebration, Woodland ' Lodge No. 156, Woodland-( Grand Master) .
VISITATIONS BY GRAND LoDGE OFFICERS TO OTHER
GRAND JURISDICTIONS

1961
November 13-14-Annual Comunication, Grand Lodge of Nevada( Ira W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master).
1962
February 3-6-Sesquicentennial Celebration, Grand Lodge of Louisiana-( Grand Master).
February 19-22-Conference of Grand Masters of North America and
Annual Meeting of The George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association, Washington, D. C.-(Grand Master,
Deputy Grand Master, Grand Secretary. Assistant Grand Secretary).
April 23-24-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona (Elmer W. Heald, Senior Grand Warden).
May 12-0ne Hundredth Anniversary, Carson City Lodge No. 1,
Nevada-( Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master).
June 13-15-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Oregon (Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary).
June 18-20---Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Washington( Theodore Meriam, Junior Grand Warden) .
June 21-22-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Br.itish Columbia
-(Theodore Meriam, Junior Grand Warden).
September 18-20---Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Idaho(Edward H. Siems, Grand Secretary).

47

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA
GUY

B. MIZE

GRAND MASTER

To ALL LoDGEs AND MASONS WITHIN AND
UNDER

Tms JURISDICTION:

Brethren:
It has been brought to my attention that on January 20, 1962, a group
of Masons organized and meeting under the name of Culver-Palms
Pyramid No. 57. Order of Sciots held a party desc:riibed as a "Hobo
Dinner" in rooms adjacent to or a part of their regular meeting place at
10120 Venice Boulevard, Los Angeles, California and that, as a part
of refreshments, liquor was sold open~ and without license to persons
attending the party.
Evidence clearly shows that those engaged in the handling and
selling of liquor were Masons and members of Culver-Palms Pyramid
No. 57, Order of Sciots; that although ·it was claimed that attendance
at the party was supposed to be limited to members, their wives and
friends, the facts are that the door to the lodge quarters was unattended; that during the course of the evening, police officers walked
tn and purchased tickets entitling them to obtain drinks at the bar
~erated by meinbe:ris of the Order of Sciots; that arrests were made,
all of which brought Masonry into disrepute.
Although officers of Culver-Palms Pyramid No. 57, Order of
Sciots disclaimed knowledge of Masonic and civil law relating to sale
of liquor with or without license, the offense to Masonry was not
lessened by their doing so, and it is to be noted that statements were to
the effect that similar parties had been staged on previous occasions
and under similar circumstances.
Such gross violation of Masonic law as dt relates to all Masons resdding within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted
Masons of California cannot go unnoticed. The good name of Masonry
demands that appropriate action be taken to insure that any and all
who hold membership in our Fraternity will respect Masoniic law and
custom.
NOW THEREFORE. as Grand Master, I hereby interdict membership in the Culver City-Palms Pyramid of Sciots by all Masons
within or under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California. This
means that all such Masons must sever and terminate membershdp in
said Pyramid of Sciots and that no such Mason may hereafter become
a member thereof.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRA ND LODG E
FREE AND ACCE PTED MAS ONS
OF CALI FORN IA

GRA ND LODG E
FREE AND ACCE PTED MAS ONS
OF CALI FORN IA

50

GUY B. MIZE

GUY 8. MIZE

GRAND MASTER

GRAND MASTER

PROCL AMATI ON -

51

PROCL AMATI ON

DEMO LAY WEEK

March 12th-18th, 1962

FORTY -THIRD ANNU AL PUBLI C SCHOO LS WEEK

hout
In this day and time, one of the most disturb ing factors throug
ca
Ameri
of
youth
the
by
yed
displa
unrest
of
t
the Nation is the amoun
the
in
levels
many
so
at
values
moral
in
e
declin
the
ry,
and, as a corolla
I believe
lives of a consid erable segme nt of our young er generation.
sibility
respon
the
of
share
fair
a
that most adults will concede that
adults
those
of
doors
the
at
lies
ex•ist
which
for the undes irable conditions
folk.
young
our
of
ms
proble
the
with
work
to
time
who have not found
pleasu re
Mason s should rejoice that they have the oppor tunity and
young
our
for
zation
organi
an
olayDeM
of
Order
to stand behind the
memits
of
lives
men that is a great asset in building charac ter into the
are
ers
Chapt
lay
DeMo
bers, streng th into the communities in which
the
for
es
devote
its
of
part
the
on
located, loyalty and patriotism
Count ry of their birth.
the sponThis Grand Lodge is on record, as a matter of policy, for
s an
implie
This
ers.
Chapt
Malay
De
of
s
Lodge
sorship by consti tuent
form
the
in
rt
endors ement for individual Mason s to lend their suppo
DeMo lay,
of time, money and moral encouragemen·t to the Order of
of a DeCode
"The
read
and
Obtain
its Chapt ers and its members.
teachand
les
princip
the
of
learn
to
gs
meetin
er
Molay ." Atten d Chapt
and
ers
memb
its
ings of this organi zation . Obser ve the high qualit y of
own.
our
are
be proud of the fact that these young men
18th,
I hereby proclaim that the week of March 12th throug h March
iction
Jurisd
the
hout
throug
1962 shall be observ ed as DeMo lay Week
notice of
of this Grand Lodge. Each Lodge is reques ted to give due
mation
Procla
this
that
direct
I
and
n
bulleti
its
in
this Procla mation
Lodge
each
of
ngs
shall be read at the Febru ary and March Stated Meeti
in this Jurisdiction.
Dated : Janua ry 24, 1962
Frater nally yours,

ated
The_ week of April 30 throug h May 4, 1962 has been design
ction.
Jurisdi
our
in
Week
ls
as Pubhc Schoo
st in
Thus will be contin ued the time honor ed traditi on of intere ca's
Ameri
.
.
.
l
Schoo
Public
"The
,
theme
The
the Public Schools.
rt of every
Herit~ge ~d Streng th:' sho~ld ~aJ?ture the heart and suppo
m and
freedo
of
rk
bulwa
American mteres ted m mamta mmg this
Democracy.
when so
Th.ere has never been a time in the histor y of our Count ry
tors
legisla
ls--by
Schoo
Public
the
much mteres t has been evinced in
ali
Not
all.
ers,
taxpay
and
s
parent
rs,
scho~I _adminis~rat~rs, teache
Public
trolled
uncon
an
of
vation
preser
the
to
d
directe
1s
t
of this interes
be conSchool Syste m-a system which, to be most effective, must
ed
nform
well-i
a
when
t.ime
a
been
trolled at local levels. There has never
'
now.
as
d
neede
sorely
so
been
has
vigilant citizenry
teache rs
Durin g Public Schools Week . visit the schoo ls-me et the
intere st
this
ue
Contin
youth,
our
of
g
dedicated to the streng thenin
Eduof
s
Board
and
rs
istrato
Admin
l
Schoo
the
Let
thr~ughout the year.
our
and
They
ms.
ca~on know of your interes~ in them and their proble
r
greate
no
render
can
You
assets.
children are among America s greate st
our
of
rt
suppo
by
than
asonry
Freem
to
service to your Count ry and
free Public School System.
t Stated
I ~irect. that no meetings be held during that period excep
Week
ls
Schoo
Public
for
gs
meetin
and
,
therein
fall
Meetings, 1f they
observance.
the
This procla mation is to be read at Stated Meeti ngs held during
months of March and April, 1962.
Dated : Febru ary 15, 1962
Frater nally yours,

Guv B. MIZE

Guv B. MIZE

Grand Master
Attest :

EDWAR D H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

Grand Master
Attest :
EDWAR D H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPT ED MASON S
OF CALIFO RNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPT ED MASON S
OF CALIFO RNIA

GUY B. MIZE

GUY B. MIZE

GRAND MASTER

GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMA TION

PROCLAMA TION

CoNsTITUT ION OBSERVAN CE MoNTHs

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWME NT MONTH

It is written ·in a religious work of old, "As for him who voluntaril y
performs a good work, verily God is grateful and knowing."
How meaningfu l this is to Masons of the Jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of California , who have created voluntaril y the Masonic Homes
of California and the Masonic Homes Endowme nt Fund, with which to
assist financially in the support of the Homes. This good work redounds
to the honor of all Masons, and our guests at Union City and Covina,
who benefit by your generosity , are grateful and knowing.
The month of May climaxes the attention focused each year on this
most worthy enterprise . I call on each member of the Fraternity to give
attention to the call for financial support of our two Homes through a
suitable contributi on to the Endowme nt Fund. The total need is great.
The individual burden, if all Masons respond, is light. May the Great
Architect of the Universe prosper, direct and counsel you in all your
doings.
It is directed that this Proclamat ion be read at the April and May,
1962, Stated Meetings.
Dated: February 1. 1962.

II

Ii
I

Fraternall y yours,

Guy B. MIZE
Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

53

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

52

I

,I

1:his. year will witnes~ th~ one hundred seventy-fi fth anniversa ry of
the signing of the Constituti on of the United States of America that
'
momentous event having occured on Septembe r 17, 1787.
whom
of
many
patriots,
of
group
Thus from the efforts of a small
were Mas~ns, .assembled in Independe nce Hall, Philadelph ia, came the
great. and inspire~ document which proclaime d a new Nation, founded
that its peoples might enjoy the blessings of liberty for themselves and
their posterity.
Toda">'.', w~ are co?fronte d on every hand by those who would destroy
the Constituti on outright - or by weakening it so that the intent of those
who gave us that immortal document is nullified. Let us as Masons defend the Constituti on, and stand firm for the principles set forth in it.
In Independe nce Hall, fittingly described as the birthplace of America?. freedom and the shrine of American patriotism , we are admonish ed
to walk proudly here, Americans , amid the symbols of your birthright ."
In this spil'it, I call on every Lodge to arrange a suitable observanc e
of the anniversa ry of the signing of the Constituti on. The period, September 16-0ctobe r 13, 1962, is designated as Constituti on Observan ce
Month. It is especially urged that observanc es be held during the week
of Septembe r 16th, wherever possible.
The Grand Lodge Committe e on Constituti on Observan ce stands
ready to assist you in your planning. Consult the Committe e's brochure
for complete instruction s.
This Proclamat ion shall be read at each Stated Meeting during the
months of August and September , 1962.
Dated: July 10, 1962.

Guy B. MIZE
Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary
At 12: 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 : 15 p.m.

AFTERNO ON SESSION - Monday, October 8, 1962

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLUT IONS

W AIYER OF JURISDIC TION
.
(3)

At 1 : 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was •called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which were
referred by the Grand Master to the committees as noted:

GIFT PRESENT ATION
(1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREA S. the Holy Bible, above all else, contains within its
revered chapters that which is the rule and guide of a Master Mason's
faith, and
WHEREA S, the Holy Bible, is, in fact, the ultimate symbol of a
Master ·Mason's obligation to his God, his Lodge, hfs Masonic brethren
and himself, and
WHEREAS . the Holy Bible and the open Lodge are synonymou s
and, therefore, of necessity, harmonious, and
WHEREAS . for all Masonic history it has. on occasion, been
deemed appropriate to present a Holy Bible to a Master Mason,
NOW THEREFO RE BE IT RESOLVE D, that the Holy Bible
upon which he has been obligated may be presented to a Master Mason,
in open Lodge, at the conclusion of his Third Degree ceremonies.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLARD M. HUYCK, Master, Lodge No. 662
RALPH F. CooPs. Past Master, Lodge No. 662
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.
GIFT PRESENT ATION

(2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREA S. it is the custom in most Masonic Lodges in the State
of California to present to newly raised Master Masons, Bibles. pins,
rings and other symbols of the fact that they are Master Masons, and
WHEREA S, it is in the best interests of Masonry that such presentations be made in a ·solemn and dignified manner in order to impress
upon the individual the responsibility entailed in wearing or possessing
such symbols, and
WHEREAS , such interests can best be served by employing the
dignified surrounding s of a Lodge room.
NOW THEREFO RE BE IT RESOLVE D. that Bibles. pins. rings
and other paraphernal ia indicative of the fact that a person is a Master
Mason may be presented, accompanied by appropriate wording, in open
Lodge after the completion of all degree work for the evening but before
the closing ritual is performed.
Respectfully submitted.
BENJAMIN L. SusMAN, Master, Lodge No. 529
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

11
11

II

55

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS , there now exists in our procedures regarding applicants for Waiver of Jurisdiction a certain laxness which needs adjustment, and
WHEREAS , where ·L odges have concurrent jurisdiction no provision
is mandatory to notify all such Lodges of Applications for Waiver of
Jurisdiction, and
WHEREAS . all applicants for degrees or affiliation must have their
~lication read at a Stated Meeting and acted upon at a later Stated
Meeting but not an Applicant for a Waiver of Jurisdiction, and
WHEREAS , by following the procedures now demanded for applicants for degrees and affiliation by waiting at least one month before
taking action by the Lodge, and also by giving notice to all Lodges havmg concurrent jurisdiction of all applications for Waiver of Jurisdiction.
information might be uncovered which would assist in determining the
action of the Lodge,
BE IT THEREFO RE RESOLVE D. to amend Section 518 of the
California Masonic Code by adding on the last line of the paragraph
after the words "degrees or affiliation" the words "AND W AIYER OF
JURISDIC TION."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVE D. that Section 524 of the California
Masonic Code be amended as follows: Following the words "The
Master shall receive the request" add the following: "REPORT IT TO
THE LODGE AT THE NEXT STATED MEETING ."
Respectfully submitted,
CECIL M. PRIOR, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
WILLIAM C. KuNz, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

MEMBER SHIP QUALIFI CATION
(4)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS . Section 51 lg of the California Masonic Code prohibits
a Lodge from receiving an application for degrees from , one who has
served a term in State Prison, and
WHEREAS , Grand Lodge in the past has made exceptions to said
rule which permitted a Lodge to receive such an application (See 1958
Proceedings, Pages 28, 298 and 30, 285), and
• WHEREAS , our Masonic Law permits a Mason who serves a term
in Stat~ ~rison .after he becomes a ·M ason to be restored to his full rights
and privileges m the fraternity thereafter when the circumstances warrant such action, and
WHEREAS , we feel that the service of a term in State Prison should

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

not in and of itself bar a man from Masonry, but that it should be one
of the many and all the circumstances of a man'·s life which should be
taken into consideration in determining the qualification of a candidate.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 511 of
the California Masonic Code be amended by adding at the end of said
Section the following:
"Provided that one who has served a term in State Prison and who
has since lived properly should not by reason of the service of said prison
term be deemed ineligible for Masonry."
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT E. PETERSEN, Master, Lodge No. 388
HENRY D. OLIPHANT, Past Master. Lodge No. 360
WALLACE A. FAGER, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
JoHN F. PALMER, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 388
CLIFFORD T. DoRMAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
EDWIN S. BUCKLEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
}AMES E. FINLEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
CARL H. ALLEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
PHILIP R. CHAPIN, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
KARL F. KOENIG, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
THOMAS HURLEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 388
KENNETH E. HoPPER, funior Warden, Lodge No. 388
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

various degrees remain unchanged but that in the event that an accepted
candidate is unable to physically execute or perform acts prescribed in
the various degrees, that the conferring Lodge be vested with the power
and authority to assist the candidate, either actually, by demonstration,
or other appropriate means, to perform or execute those physical requirements which his disability prevents him from performing or executing without such assistance or demonstration.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any prostheses usually worn
or used by an accepted applicant, for his safety, comfort, physical improvement, well-being, or necessity, be permitted to be worn or used
during the conferring of the degrees.

56

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
(5)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there are many worthy and well qualified men who
have been wounded, maimed, or otherwise physically disabled in the
defense of our country in its wars, and others similarly worthy and well
qualified who, through misfortune or tragedy have also become physically disabled or maimed, and who are literally unable to comply with
the physical requirements of our laws and are therefore denied participation in our privileges, and
WHEREAS, this is contrary to our teachings and precepts, particularly that of Brotherly love, and
WHEREAS, we no longer work in operative Masonry but speculative only, these physical requirements are obsolete,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that all references to physical
sufficiency or physical qualifications for the degrees contained in our laws,
rules, regulations, edicts, decisions, or any other matter on this subject,
written or unwritten, having the force of law, be rescinded.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the prescribed ritual for the

57

Respectfully submitted,
DONALD D. PITMAN, Master, Lodge No. 651
TOMMIE T. HuosoN, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 651
ROYAL HooGE, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
ROBERT CHRISTIANSEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
E. Ross BAYLIS, Past Master, Lodge No. 690
HERBERT A. McKECHNIE, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
EDWARD A. GRINDLE, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 651
RussELL J. BRAASCH, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
ROBERT F. GILBERG, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
REGINALD H. STEVENS, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
WILLIAM E. Toon, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
Referred to Commiteees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

APPLICATION FOR DEGREES
(6)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, in order that Candidates may understand the position
of California Blue Lodge Masons in regards to separation of Church
and State and to avoid future misunderstanding, I offer for your consideration the following resolution:
RESOLVED, the following question shall be included in the Petitions for Degrees "DO YOU BELIEVE IN SEPARATION OF
CHURCH AND STATE."
Respectfully submitted,
RAYL. McCORD, Past Master, Lodge No. 506
ROBERT 0BLATH, Master, Lodge No. 506
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

FUNERAL SERVICE RITUAL
(8)

I

APPLICATION FOR DEGREES
(7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the reputation of the Fraternity rests upon the individual Mason and his knowledge of our Masonic Law, and
WHEREAS, it is repugnent to our moral and Masonic sensibilities
to find a Master Mason aspiring to, or occupying a station, or being in
an official capacity in a concordant or prerequisite body, without sufficient
knowledge of our Masonic Law as contained in the California Masonic
Code, and
WHEREAS, the actions of individual Masons who govern and
compose prerequisite or concordant bodies by their negligences and
ignorance of our law could cause Master Masons to have formal charges
brought against them of such a serious nature as may result in suspension
or expulsion from the Fraternity, and
WHEREAS, Master Masons without knowledge of our law have
allowed their particular affiliate body to be brought into disrepute and
caused the Fraternity to come under censure and derision from other
groups and the public in general. and
WHEREAS, upon receiving the Master Mason Degree, a Mason
is enjoined to preserve unsullied the reputation of the Fraternity and in
an effort to preclude infractions of our Masonic Code by concordant or
prerequisite bodies or individuals composing such a body, at least an
elementary knowledge of Masonic Law and Custom should be required
to keep themselves and/ or those under their jurisdiction in complete
compliance with, and without deviation from, the accepted laws and
regulations of the Fraternity.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED. that Section 527 "Form of
Application for Degrees" question fifteen of the California Masonic
Code, be amended by inserting after the words "Candidate's Lecture of
the Degree of Master Mason" and before the words "and in no event
within twelve months after you have received the Degree of Master
Mason?" the following words:
and shall have satisfactorily passed. an examination
on Masonic Law as prescribed by Grand Lodge.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this examination shall be
administered in such form and manner as prescribed by Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT L. WALKER, Master, Lodge No. 512
JoHN C. LINDER, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 512
LLOYD H. SHELTON, Past Master, Lodge No. 512
E. DALE PECK, Master, Lodge No. 467
JOHN A. McCmsH, funior Warden, Lodge No. 512
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

II

,,
11

I

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. Sectio~ 61?4. California Masonic Code states, "Every
Master Mason who dies in good standing is entitled to burial with
Masonic Honors"-and Section 605 reads, "to constitute burial with
Masonic honors the funeral service authorized by the Grand Lodge must
be used," and
WHEREAS. the foreword in the instructions of The Funeral Service, as adopted ~y th.is Grand Lodge states, "The funeral service may
be held (a) entirely m the Lodge room, or ( b) entirely in a chapel or
home or church. The forms of the two services are different. In each
case, the 'Committal' is to be delivered at the final resting place, or at
the place_ wh~re. the ~asonic service is concluded. The language of the
two services 1s identical. It is ritual and must not be deviated from nor
are interpol~tio~s to b_e permitted e~cept that a eulogy may be deli~ered
at the place indicated in the service, ' and
WHEREAS, it is further stated, "Care should be exercised to comply with any reasonable wish of the family. If any special requests are
made or. th~re are any un~sual conditions, consult with the Inspector
of the district before denying the request or attempting to adapt the
service to the circumstances," and
WH~REA~. an incr~asing number of requests are being made for
a Masonic Service to be given only at the final resting place, and
WHEREAS, the entire Masonic Service, following a church or other
fraternal service is not desired by the family of the deceased, and
. WHERE~S. the only way the Masters and Inspectors can comply
with these reasonable requests is to violate our law.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that a suitable Funeral
~ervice, to be given at the place of interment, be prepared for consideration at the next Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH W. COLLINS, Past Master, Lodge Nos. 566 & 739
. Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

INSTALLATION SERVICE
(9)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

~I

WHEREAS, we are striving to impress our members with patriotism
and love of country, and
WHEREAS, we find more and more laxity in paying due respect
to the flag of our country, and
WHEREAS, we as Masons look back to the formation of our country and the role Masons played at that time, and
~HEREAS, we believe that we as Masons should play a more
prominent part in seeing that the flag of our country is properly displayed and due respect paid thereto, and

60

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WHEREAS, we the undersigned, believing wholeheartedly in the
above, have initiated this action,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that the ceremony of
Public Installation for Officers of a Lodge be amended and the following
be included:
.
That an Honorary Marshal be appointed and his duties to be ~s
follows: When the Officers to be installed have entered and taken th~1r
places, the Installing Officer shall direct the Honorary Marshal to retire
and present the flag of our country, when the Honorary Marshal has
presented the flag at the altar, the pledge of alle~iance shall be given.
The Oag shall then be placed in its proper place m the East. The Oag
shall be returned in the usual manner when the Officers close the Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
ROYAL D. BARNES, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 600
EARL V. YuLTON, Past Master. Lodge No. 600
E. M. STUTZ, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
M. R. FELKER, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
PHILIP L. GOLDSTEIN, Past Master. Lodge No. 42
WILLIAM E. S. }ARREIT, Past Master, Lodge No. 368
MILTON E. AMMANN, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
FLOYD F. BOYER, Past Master, Lodge No. 382
FRANK H. REINSCH, Past Master, Lodge No. 677
GEORGE N. HIMES, Master, Lodge No. 602 ·
RALPH HERBOLD, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
JoHN D. KEEN, Past Master, Lodg,e No. 600
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

BURIAL WITH MASONIC HONORS
(10)
.

.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A.~· of_ California:
WHEREAS because of a Police Report disclosing that a Brother
Master Mason i~ good standing had been charged w_ith c?mmitting _a
murder and then suicide, the accused was denied burial with Masomc
Honors, and
WHEREAS. many instances have developed th~t the accused
(according to Police Reports) had bee~ brought to Trial by Jury and
subsequently acquitted or found not gmlty as charged, and
.
WHEREAS. the Master of his Lodge had requeste~ advice from
proper authority, which authority had none of the relative facts, was
poorly advised, and
.
WHEREAS. the accused was a Master Mason in good stand1?g,
of high morals and general .good reputa~ion'. even to the extent of bemg
considered for appointment to an office m his Lodge, and
.
WHEREAS. many members of his family, member>S of his ~ge
and of the Craft at large with whom he had been closely associated

61

were dissatisfied and considered that the accused was rendered a grave
injustice upon being denied burial with Masonic Honors, and
WHEREAS, it is our indispensable duty to aid and assist a distressed worthy brother Master Mason,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: "In the event that it appears
that an alleged felony has been committed and the accused thereupon
committed suicide, the Master and the Wardens are to determine
whether or not the accused is to be buried with Masonic Honors. As our
Civil Laws protect the accused, in that a man is innocent until proven
guilty of the crime of which he is accused, it must be borne in mind that
a Police Report is an official preliminary investigation but does not necessarily establish the final proof of guilt of the accused, nor the conviction
of the accused for the crime. Furthermore, if there is reasonable doubt
of the accused's guilt because of alternate or remote possibilities involved, he should receive proper consideration to be buried with Masonic
Honors, provided that he was a Master Mason in good standing at the
time."
Respectfully submitted,
CLAUDE J. PALMER, Past Master, Lodge No. 212
JosEPH ScARDAMAGLIA, Past Master. Lodge No. 212
ALFRED ANDERSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 212
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

RESEARCH LODGE OFFICERS
(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Research Lodges are seriously hampered by the
existing requirement of Section 385 California Masonic Code that the
Master and Wardens must be Past Masters of a Lodge, and
WHEREAS, the status of the Master of a Research Lodge should
be clarified to distinguish him from the Master of other Lodges,
BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 385 of the California Masonic
Code be amended as follows:
(A) Amend Paragraph 10 to read as follows: "No officer or former
officer of a Research Lodge shall, by reason of that position alone, be
a member of Grand Lodge. Sections 490 and 491 of the California
Masonic Code shall not be applicable to one who has served as Master
of a Research Lodge, only, and the Master of a Research Lodge shall
not, upon death or completion of his term of office, by reason of that
fact alone, become or be known as or designated as a Past Master, and
shall possess none of the !tights, powers or privileges of a Past Master of
a Lodge."
(B) Amend Paragraph 5 thereof by adding the following: "provided, however, that when the Master-elect or a Warden-elect or a
Senior Deacon appointed, is not a Past Master of a California Lodge,

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

before he can be installed he must produce a certificate from the Inspector
of the district in which the Research Lodge is situated certifying to the
proficiency of such officer in the opening and closing ceremonies."
( C) Strike out Paragraph 18.
Respectfully submitted,
EUGENE S. HOPP, Past Master, Lodge No. 495
MARCUS W. WooD, Past Master, Lodge No. 669
DAVID C. LEE, Past Master, Lodge No. 492
FLOYD F. BoYER, Past Master, Lodge No. 382
0. J. WOHLGEMUTH, Past Master, Lodge No. 122
LEO J. GREEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 316
ToM McWILLIAM, Past Master, Lodge No. 761
RALPH A. HERBOLD, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
JoHN H. BROOKE, Past Master, Lodge No. 462
WILLIAM E. S. JARRETT, Past Master, Lodge No. 368
MILTON E. AMMANN, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
Ref erred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
·

GRAND LODGE WEEK COMMITTEE
(13)

RESEARCH LODGE APPROPRIATION
(12)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Section 385 of the California Masonic Code establishes a special classification of constituent Lodges to be known as
Research Lodges, and
WHEREAS, said Section grants to the constituent Research Lodges
the authority to "gather and preserve Masonic Information" and to
"maintain a library," and
WHEREAS, the lack of necessary funds has prevented the establishment of those libraries authorized by said Section, be it
RESOLVED, that the sum of $500.00 be appropriated to each constituent Research Lodge, the funds so appropriated to be used for the
acquisition of a basic Masonic Library.
Respectfully submitted,
MILTON E. AMMANN, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
RALPH A. HERBOLD, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
ALVIE 0. HoLTON, Past Master, Lodge No. 625
JOHN H. BROOKE, Master, N.C.R.
GEORGE H. HIMES, Master, Lodge No. 602
FLOYD F. BOYER, Past Master, Lodge No. 382
LEO J. GREEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 316
EDWARD L. KELLAS, Past Master, Lodge No. 247
FRANK H. REINSCH, Past Master, Lodge No. 677
MARCUS W. WooD, Past Master, Lodge No. 669
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

I

II

63

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, prior to 1961, the Grand Lodge Week Activities
Committee had as its responsibility and duty the following: the ar~anging and handling of the Grand Master's party, formerly, t':o dinners and entertainments at the Palace Hotel. one for approximately
1 000 delegates, and the other for some 350 of their ladies on the same
e~ening, presently, a musical program of high calibre held in the auditorium of the California Masonic Memorial Temple for some 3,200
delegates and their ladies; the annual trip to the Masonic Home for the
Aged at Union City, transporting some 1,200 to 1,500 perso.ns by ?us,
and arranging for box lunches for this number; together with various
sight-seeing trips, tours, and luncheons, and
.
.
.
WHEREAS, since the completion of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, an unofficial committee of some four to six members of
Grand Lodge handled the sale of tickets and the arrangements for the
daily lunches served in the Exhibit Hall of the Temple during .each
annual Grand Lodge Communication for the comfort and convenience
of some 2.500 delegates in attendance, and
WHEREAS, in August of 1961, the responsibility for the arranging
and handling of the daily lunches for delegates was given to the Grand
Lodge Week Activities Committee with no additional committee members, the former unofficial committee having resigned en masse, and
WHEREAS, in order to perform efficiently and satisfactorily the
many simultan~ous duties required of it in a short space of time with a
minimum of complaints from Grand Lodge members, the Grand Lodge
Week Activities Committee is in positive and immediate need of additional manpower, now therefore
BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 192 of the Ordinances as contained in the California Masonic Code be amended in such a manner
as to permit the Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee to consist of
(not less than nine members, and not more than) eleven members instead of the present seven members.
Respectfully submitted,
LowELL H. BECKENDORF, Past Master, Lodge No. 462
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

DISPLAY NATIONAL EMBLEM
(14)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. the Masonic Order is the oldest fraternal organization and one which actively promotes the virtues of loyalty, fidelity and
patriotism, and

65

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS. all Masons are urged on . all occasions to display
atriotism, love of country and pride in our heritage of f~eed~m, and
p WHEREAS the Grand Lodge of Masons of Cah!ornia does hol~
forth its annual ~ommunication in a Memorial M~so~ic i:emple, dedicated to the Masons of California who gave their hves m defense of

WHEREAS, Grand Lodge of California approves the ideals, aims
and purposes of the Order of DeMolay and requests Masons to "lend
their moral and personal support" to the Order of DeMolay, according
to the provisions of Section 333f, California Masonic Code, and
WHEREAS, the future of our Masonic Fraternity lies in the Youth
of our present day, and
WHEREAS, we feel that proper and direct guidance of the Youth
of today will provide untold wealth in a better citizenry of tomorrow, and
WHEREAS, we feel that as a result of this guidance, our Masonic
Fraternity will directly benefit in the form of better future members, and
WHEREAS, the Youth of today does need encouragement and influencing in the right direction in their activities, and
WHEREAS, this encouragement and influencing is an opportunity
to serve our Country by helping guide the Youth in the proper direction,
and
WHEREAS, it is the Policy of Grand Lodge of California as attested to by the Most Worshipful Past Grand Master Stewart in 1956
(Note, 333f California Masonic Code), that a Masonic Lodge might
have permission to sponsor Chapters of the Order of DeMolay,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 333r be
added to the California Masonic Code, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 333r read as follows:
"Masonic Lodges, by resolution of the Lodge in Stated Meeting, with
the approval of the Grand Lodge of Masons in California, may sponsor
Chapters of the Order of DeMolay, and may expend funds, in nominal
amounts, with the approval of the Most Worshipful Grand Master of
Masons in California, to provide equipment, supplies and furnishings
for the sponsored Chapter of the Order of DeMolay."
Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD E. DARLING, Master, Lodge No. 497
THOMAS M. LIVINSTONE, Past Master, Lodge No. 497
CHARLES W. BISHOP, Past Master, Lodge No. 401
LEON V. RosE, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 497
WILLIAM M. NICHOLSON, SR., Past Master, Lodge No. 497
CHARLES C. HoBB, Past Master, Lodge No. 140
FRANK C. LoNG, Past Master, Lodge No. 497
R. J. RICHARDSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 497
Lours F. SCHWARTZ, Past Master, Lodge No. 497
ROBERT E. CRAWFORD, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 497
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

thei~~~ttHEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by Coachella Lodge.

Free and Accepted Masons of the State ~f California, that t~e Grand
Lodge of Masons of the State of California be requested. to displa~ t~:
National Emblem from an appropriate flagstaff, atop or m front o t
Memorial Temple between the hours of sunrise and sunset on every
day of the year, except in inclement weather.
Respectfully submitted,
REX T. JOHNSON, Master, Lodge No. 476
NILES D. HowELL, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 476
FRIEND F. WILSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
WALTER C. WHEELER, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
ROBERT K. HAGER, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 476
FRANKLIN B. OOZIER, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
HuRKLESS A. BULLARD, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

SERVING OF LIQUORS
(15)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

.
BE IT RESOLVED, that that portion of Section. 408 of the California Masonic Code reading: "Nor shall any such liquors be used or
served at any Masonic banquet or gathering": b~ del~ted.
We believe this portion of Section 408 to be inherited. from the days
the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
d we
f l'f
d
in effect.
It does not reflect the concept of our mo er~ way o . i e, an .
firml believe that a friendly gathering shouldn t be denied the social
.
.. M
y
amenities just because 1t is asonic.
Respectfully submitted,
NORMAN E. JOHNSON, Master, Lodge No. 30
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

SPONSORSHIP OF DE MOLAY
(16)

.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, a growing awareness of the Order of. DeM?lay . is
becoming more and more obvious among Masonic Lodg,,es m California,
and

66

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

TRIAL PROCE DURE-F ORMS
(17)
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
I present the following resolution :
BE IT RESOLV ED:
A. That Section 689 C.M.C. be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 689. STANDA RDIZED FORMS. Standardi zed forms. maintained by the Grand Secretary under the authority of Section 150 - 18th.
shall be used for all Masonic penal proceedin gs under Article IV of
.
Part III of the Ordinance s of Grand Lodge.
705.
,
704
703.
B. That California Masonic Code Sections 695, 698.
708, 716, 717, 722, 725. 728, 736. 737 and 738 be repealed.
C. That C.M.C. Section 692.1 be amended to read as follows:
Procedure on receipt of charges. Upon the presentati on of such
charges, the Master shall carefully examine the charge and specifications, and, if they are evidently frivolous , or if the act or acts with which
the accused is charged is or are clearly such as do not constitute a
Masonic offense. he may refuse to entertain them. But. should it appear
otherwise, and it is known to him that the accuser is a Master Mason
in good standing. he shall cause true copies of such charge and specifications to be made, shall cause one of such copies to be forwarded to
the Grand Secretary, and cause to be served upon the accused one of
said true copies, together with a notice to the accused that such charge
has been filed and that the accused may, within either ten or thirty days
after the service on accused of this notice, file with the Secretary of the
Lodge a statement in writing that accused is not guilty of the charge. or
a statement in writing that the accused is guilty of the charge, and that if
accused shall fail within said period of either ten or thirty days. whichever period is set out in the notice. to file a statement in writing as
required as a plea of either guilty or not guilty. further proceedin gs will
be taken against accused without further notice to him, and that on a
plea of guilty the penalty may be fixed by the Trial Master without
further notice to accused.
D. That C.M.C. Section 692.2 be amended to read as follows:
TIME AND MANNER OP SERVICE

The time a llowed for filing a written statement by the accused as
provided in Section 692.1 of this code and which shall be inserted in the
notice given to the accused shall be ten days if the notice is to be served
and is actually served within the jurisdictio n of the Lodge or within the
county in which the Lodge is located; otherwise said time shall be thirty
days. Service may be made personally by the Tiler or some other member

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

67

of the Lodge authorized by the Master for that purpose, or said notice
shall be left at. his ordinary residence or place of business, or may be
forwarded to his address by the Secretary, by ordinary mail.
E. That C.M.C. Section 692.3 be amended by striking the. words
at the end of the section reading as follows: ..... in form similar to that
provided for service of summons by Section 708 of this Code."
F. That Section 692.4 be amended as follows: Add at the end
thereof the following paragraph :
Upon the filing by accused of a written plea of guilty to the charge
the Trial Master may make a fi~ding of guilt without further investigation, ~ut r:nay make any such mvestigati on as he feels necessary and
shall. Jn his report to the Lodge, determine the penalty.
G. That Section 727 C.M.C. be amended to read as follows:
Sect~on 727. D~s~ositio n of Trial Papers. The Lodge shall keep in
its archives the ongmal record of proceedin gs before the Commission
signed by the Commissi oners who acted, the original papers and minutes connected therewith as described in Section 726. and the original
reporter's transcript if a shorthand reporter was used. The transcript
intended for Grand Lodge is a copy of the foregoing.
As soon as pos_sible after the next stated meeting, the Secretary shall
add to the transcript a certified copy of the minutes relating to the announcement of the res ult of the trial and a copy of the reporter's transcript, if any, and shall send the whole in one package to the Grand
Secretary.
B.espectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross. Past Ma ster, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce. and on Grievance s.

TRIAL PROCED URE-CO UNSEL
(18)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
I present the following resolution :
. BE IT RES9L":ED .• ~~at .S ection 709 C.M.C. be amended by de~~mg t!te ,';"'ord assistant m lme 2 and substitutin g therefor the words
to assist, and by adding at the end of ,said section the following:
Such counsel need not be an attorney at law. He may appear and
represent the accused also if the latter cannot be present at the trial.
The summons served on the accused shall give notice of the provisions
of this section.
The Trial Master may have any Master Mason as his counsel to be
present and advise him in presiding at the trial.
Respec tfully submitted.
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Ma ster, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce, and on Grievance s.

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

TRIA L PRO CED URE ADD ITIO NAL EVID ENC E AND ARG UME NTS
(19)
of California:
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A. M.

ons 713 and 761,
I prese nt the following resol ution to clarif y Secti
C.M. C.
be amen ded to read
BE IT RES OLV ED. that Section 743 C.M. C.
as follows:
accus ed or accus er
Addi tiona l Evide nce and Argu ments. If eithe r the
ional evide nce which
desires to have consi dered on the appea l <my addit
tigation in the Lodge,
could not ha ve been produ ced at the trial or inves
g forth the subsettin
er
a statem ent in writin g of the accus ed or accus
produ ced at the
not
was
it
stanc e of such evide nce and expla ining why
Gran d Secre the
with
filed
be
trial or inves tigati on in the Lodg e may
of the next
ent
encem
comm
the
to
tary not later than sixty days prior
or repre ents
argum
any
and
e.
Lodg
d
Annu al Comm unica tion of Gran
other Maso n desir es
senta tions which eithe r accus ed or accus er, or any
Gran d Secre tary not
to prese nt must be in writin g and filed with the
of the next Annu al
later than sixty days prior to the commencement
preve nt perso nal
shall
n
herei
Comm unica tion of Gran d Lodge. Noth ing
other Maso n
any
or
ed
accus
er,
appea rance s and oral argum ent by accus
icabl e, nor
pract
and
nient
conve
if
,
befor e the Comm ittee on Grievances
e.
Lodg
d
Gran
n
withi
ent
argum
oral
shall it affect the right of
s, "such
word
the
strike
to
ded
amen
be
.C.
C.M
That Secti on 761
state "such
s,
the word
addit ional evide nce in writi ng" and subst itute
ment s or argum ents in writi ng."
Resp ectfu lly subm itted,
ALBERT F. Ross . P ast M aster. Lodg e No. 254
Griev ances .
Refer red to Comm ittees on Jurisp ruden ce, and on

RES OLU TION WIT HDR AW N

tion," previ ously
The Resolution titled, "Res earch Lodg e Appr opria
.
nents
propo
circu lated as Num ber 12, was withd rawn by its

NON -EM ERG ENT MAT TER

Fresn o, relati ve to
A Reso lution prese nted by a Lodg e locat ed in
the Gran d Secre tary in
Maun dy Thur sday , had not been received by
d Mast er decla red
time to comp ly with Secti on I 04 C.M. C. The Gran
consi derat ion at
to
ct
the matte r not emer gent and, there fore. not subje
this Comm unica tion.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

69

DIST ING UISH ED GUE STS
ed with priva te
The following distin guish ed guest s were receiv
d Mast er and seate d
Gran d Hono rs, indiv idual ly welcomed by the Gran
in the seats reser ved for them.
M:.w :.LvM AN c. PALMER,
Gran d Master of the Gran d Lodg e of Oregon.
M.".W ." .CHARLES w. JOHNSON ,
n.
Gran d Mast er of the Gran d Lodg e of Wash ingto
M.".W .' .LERov AsERL!No,
Gran d Mast er of the Gran d Lodge of Mont ana.
M.". W.' .CHARLES F. Gru,
Grand Mast er of the Gran d Lodg e of Idaho.
M .'.W .' .CLARK c. FORD ,
Gran d Mast er of the Gran d Lodg e of Arizona.
M.". W.'. NOHEA 0. A. PECK,
Gran d Ma ster of the Gran d Lodg e of Japan.
into Gran d Lodge
The following distin guish ed guest s were escor ted
were accor ded public
and, after being 'welc omed by the Gran d Mast er,
ved for them :
Gran d Hono rs and then escor ted to the seats reser
R.'.W .'.GEORGE 0. THORNE
ew Mexico.
Senior Gran d Ward en of the Gran d lodg e of N
M: .w:.J AME s w . BREW ER,
d Lodg e of
Past Gran d f':-1 aster and Gran d Treasurer of the Gran
rna.
Carol
North
M.'.W .".HERBERT H. EBERLE,
d Lodge of
Past Gran d Mast er and Gran d Secre tary of the Gran
Idaho.
V.'.W.'.CLARENCE M. GROSHELL,
Gran d Secre tary of the Gran d Lodg e of Utah .
M.'.W .'.GE RAL D I. CRAIG,
Lodg e of
Pa~t Gran d Mast er and Gran d Se cretary of the Grand
Arizo na.

70

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
M:.w:.RoBER T L. PuGH,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina.

M:.w:.J. w. J. STEDMAN.

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.

M .".W.".CHARLE S A. CARLSON, JR.

Past Grand M aster of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M.".W.'.WILL H. TAYLOR,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M ." .W.".STANTON YOUNGBERG,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M.'.W:.FREDERI C H. STEVENS,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M .'.W .".T. F. WEI,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of China .
W .". ALPRED S. LEE,

Past Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of China and now a
member of San Francisco-Vict ory Lodge No. 360.
w:.FEux LENHART.

Past Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia
and now a member of Durant Lodge No . 268.
At various times during the Communicatio n the following distinguished guests addressed the Brethren at the invitation of the Grand
Master. Each of the addresses was enthusiastically received. In each
instance the warmth of the fraternal greetings was sincerely appreciated.
M.' . W.".LYMAN

c. PALMER,

Grand M aster of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
M .' .W.".CHARLES w. JOH NSON,

Grand Ma ster of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M.'.W.".LERO Y AsERLIND,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Montana.
M.".W.'.CHAR LES F. GILL,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Idaho.
FoRD,
M:.w:.CLAR K
Grand Ma ster of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.

c.

M .'. W .".NOHEA 0. A. PECK,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Japan.
R .".W.'.GEORGE 0. THORNE,

Senior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of New Mexico.

M:. w ... ROBERT L. PUGH,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

71

SPECIAL PRESENTA TIO NS AND ADDRESSES
Past Grand Master Henry C. Clausen introduced Frederic H.
Stevens. Past Grand Master of the Philippines, who in turn presented a
fifty Year Veteran Award to Will H. Taylor, Past Grand Master of
the Philippines. A standing ovation was accorded Brother Taylor. He
responded with appropriate remarks.
Past Grand Master Leo E. Anderson addressed the Grand Lodge
regarding Masonry in South America as he saw it during his recent
visit there. He presented to Grand Master Guy B. Mize a copper
plaque and stand as a gift from Tupac Amaru Lodge No. 42 of Lima,
Peru. Grand Master Mize accepted the gift with gratitude.
Grand Master Mize requested Brother Samuel Steelman to approach the east where Past Grand Master Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. then
presented to him a copy of Preston 's Illustrations in Masonry. printed
in 1821, as an expression of appreciation by the Board of Trustees for
legal services rendered to the Masonic Homes and for which Brother
Steelman continually refuses to render a bill. Brother Steelman responded with remarks appropriate to the occasion.
Nohea 0 . A. Peck. Grand Master of Masons in Japan, expressed
fraternal greeting s and, as an expression of appreciation from the Grand
Lodge of Japan, presented a copy of its Constitution and Code to Grand
Master Mize.
At the request of Grand Master Mize, Brother Orvel Johnson, a
member of W ashing ton Lodge No. 20, approached the east. He in turn
presented to the Grand Lodge of California three original paintings,
representing the Lights of the East, West and South Stations, which
bad hung in Columbia Lodge No. 28. They had been preserved by request of the artist, Brother Joseph Spear, to be subsequently placed in an
appropriate Museum or Masonic Temple. Grand Master Mize responded on behalf of the Grand Lodge and directed that the paintings
be hung in the Columbia Temple at Sonora.
Brother Matthew M . Codon, Past Master of Los Angeles Lodge
No. 42, requested permission to address the Grand Lodge. A plastic
plaque, made by Brother Don L. Stoffer, a member of Vesper Lodge
No. 84, was presented to Grand M aster Mize by Brother Codon. The
plaque displays a square and compass together with two of the original
hand made spikes used in the construction of the Old Masonic Hall of
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 . The Grand Master requested Brother Codon
to provide an appropriate stand and suggested that it be displayed in
the Old Lodge Hall at the City Hall Plaza, Los Angeles.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand LodgeF. & A. M. of California:
I have pleasure in presenting my second annual report as Grand
Treasurer.
Attached will be found all of the financial reports and audits of the
Grand Lodge. Masonic Homes of California and the California Masonic
Memorial Tempie. These reports cover in detail the complete financial
history of our Grand Lodge for the past year and careful attention
should be given to the various items contained therein.
I particularly call your attention to the financial status of our Masonic Homes. We can point with pride to our efforts on behalf of those
who are committed to our care. The Trustees have done an outstanding
job in providing for the ever-growing nee~s of our. residen~s. The .~a­
sons of California likewise have met their commitments m providmg
gifts and bequests and by their support of our Endowment F~nd. The
annual per capita tax levied by this Grand Lodge for the mamtenance
of the Homes is very modest indeed when compared to other Grand
Lodges, and the Trustees should be complimented for their efforts in
keeping the operating costs to a reasonable level.
I feel it incumbent also to comment on the work of the Investment
Committee. chairmanned by our Assistant Grand Treasurer, W. Paul A.
Pflueger, who is outstanding in his chosen field of finance. The Gra~d
Lodge is fortunate indeed to have such an array of talent to handle its
investments. Nowhere except in Masonry could you expect to find such
men, unselfishly giving freely of their time and effort, and with such
exceptional and beneficial results.
APPROPRIATIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS

All appropriations and disbursements have been carefully reviewed
by the professional auditors as provided by Section 191 C.M.C.
Detailed records and vouchers are on file for inspection in the office of
the Grand Secretary.
The budget approved at the last Communication has been strictly
adhered to and as a result of careful planning, a budget surplus of
$27,720.21 has been produced. The various Boards and Committees,
as well as our genial and most efficient Grand Secretary, are to be
complimented for their efforts.
Supplementary appropriations were approved by the Grand Master
on March 9, 1962, as follows:
Pay of Members Annual Communication ............ $ 600.00
Workmen's Compensation Insurance Premium
provided for Constituent Lodges .................... 1,100.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

73

Supplemental Pension, Lloyd E. Wilson
At the 1961 Communication the Finance Committee, with the approval of the Grand Lodge, arranged the retirement of Past Grand
Secretary Lloyd E. Wilson. The terms of the retirement provided for
his full retirement under our Pension Plan and authorized the payment
by Grand Lodge of a supplemental pension of $716.00 per month: all
to be effective January 1, 1962 (Page 311 ) •
Under the Retirement Plan Brother Wilson chose the opt·ion to
accept a reduced sum ( $251.05) in order to provide a similar amount
for Mrs. Elsie Wilson in the event of his death after retirement (Page
1OA Retirement Income Plan).
Unfortunately the Great Architect of the Universe in His wisdom
saw fit to remove Brother Wilson from our midst before this plan could
be carried out. A s a result the program arranged for Mrs. W ilson was
of no avail and no funds could legally be provided for her under the
Retirement Income Plan.
Recognizing the injustice of the turn of events, the Grand Master
after consultation with the Chairmen of Finance, of Jurisprudence, of
Policy and General Purposes, and with the concurrence of the Grand
Treasurer ordered a monthly payment of $254.05 from the funds of
Grand Lodge to be paid to Mrs. Wilson. This matter no doubt will be
reported by our Grand Master and the reference herein is for the record
only.
The work as Grand Treasurer is a very rewarding one and I am
grateful to the Grand Lodge for the privilege of serving this great
Fraternity.
I express to my associate, W. Paul A. Pflueger, Assistant Gra nd
Treasurer, and to our Grand Secretary, M. W. Edward H. Siems, my
warm thanks for their willingness to serve at every opportunity.
To the Brethren of the Grand Lodge I off er my deep appreciation for
the trust which they have placed in me.
Fraternally submitted,
ARTHUR M. WARREN
Grand Treasurer
Refel'red to Committee on Distribution.

75

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS, Continued

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Years Ended
June 30, 1962 June 30, 1961
INCOME RECEIPTS :
Grand Lodge:
Per capita, contribution•, and fees
Interest, 'd ividends, and mi scel laneoue

$

Masonic Homes - General Fund:
.
Grand Lodge per capita and contributions
payments through Lodges fo: Homes
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneoua
Masonic Homes - Other Endowment Funds:
Contributions
Interest and dividends
Memorial Temple:
Interest
Memorial Temple operations
Total income (exclusive of
capital gains)
CAPITAL RECEIPTS, INCLUDING LOANS AND
CAPITAL GAINS:
Grano Lodge:
Gain on sale of securitie•
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Gain on sale of securit ies
Bequests and contr~bution s
Assignments by resid e nts
Revaluation of certain common stocks
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Bequests and contributions
Gain on sale of securities and real
estate
Masonic Homes - other Endowment and
Trust Funds:
Gain on sale of securities
Received from residents for deposit
(net)
Memorial Temple:
.
Grant Lodge per capita and co~tributione
Beques ts and individual contribution•
Addition to reserve for renewals and
replacemen t s
Total income and capital
receipts - forward

321,370.43
38,280.08
359,650.51

~

319,345 .68
57,619 . 39
376,965.07

421,781.00
48,509.83
123,320.49
593' 611. 32

446,013.00
37,459.33
105, 768.55
589,240. 88

468. 302. 57

445,393.42

416.16
21, 745. 30
22,I61.46

.970.50'
21,943.59
22 ,9I4.09

2,060.60
114,813 .50
116,874.Io

1,865.06
101,688.12
103,553.18

l,560,599 .96

1,538,066.64

4,299 . Q3

44,197 .25

170, 501. 23
226,057.46
507,696.44
904,255.13

9 ,190.51
667. 901.19
443,805 . 85
136,799.00
1,257,696.55

778,809.62

840,927.88

272,198. 34
1,051,007.96

453,013.71
i. 293, 941. 59

3,395.66

14 ,926. 68

2 , 761. 24
6,I56.90

0,000.25
23,0!4.93

298,215.00
72, 771.68

304,687.00
48,224.40

1,169.00
312,!55.68

.l,036.00
353,947.40

3,898,474 .66

4,510,864.36

Years Ended
June 30, 1962 June 30, !961
Total income and capital
receipts - forward
JDCPENSE DISBURSEMENTS:
Grand Lodge:
operating expense
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Operation of Homes and outside relief
Administrative· and general expense
Retirement income plan

$3,898,474.66

$4,510 , 864 . 36

342 ,890.16

344,946.68

1,155,001 . 35
138 ' 019. 21
33,553.38
1, 326, 573 .94

1,051,825.08
146 , 354.34
26,468.21
1,224,647.63

l,350.00

1,350.00

5, 581.57
130,2 17 .86
55,151.60

7' 360.95
118,963.17
65, 751.52

1,169 .00
!92,120. 03
1,862,934.13

1,036.00
193,111.64
l,764,055.95

43 , 826 . 20
11,629.49
23,777.33
53 ,856 .00
6, 711.02
139,800.04

28,655.38
9,464.27
20,115.76
52,008.00
5 I 725 • 59
!15,969.00

127,898.00
2,130,632 . 17

i.000 1 024.95

$1,767,842.49

$2,630,839.41

Masonic Homes - Endowment and Trust Funds:
Miscellaneous
Memorial Temple:
Administrative and general expense
Memorial Temple operation s
Interest on notes payable
Transferred to r e serve for renewals a nd
replacements
Total operating expenses
EXPENSES CHARGED TO RESERVES FOR SPECIAL
PURPOSES:
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Replacements to Homes
Funeral expense
Ente rta inment expense
Grants to residents
Miscellaneous
EXPENSES CHARGED TO FUND BJ\LANCE:
Grand Lodge:
Retirement pension plan psst service
costs
Total expenses
Net increase in fund balances

The foregoing net increase in fund balances during the year ended
June 30, 19 62, and year ended June 30, 196 1, is accounted for as follows:
Changes increasing (decreasing) f und
balances:
Increase in cash on depcsit in banks
Increase in securities owned
Increase in buildings and equipment
Decrease in loans from banks
Decrease in contract payable
Increase (decrease) in mi scellaneous
aasets, net
Decrease (increase) in sundry
liabilities
Net increase in fund balances,
as above

$

86,074.91
1,296,7 03 .37
99,065.33
180,000.00
23 , 751. 00

$

536 ,08 7,07
l,608,033.47
201,976.72
270,000.00
47 ,502. 00

81,269.54

(25,390.53)

978 . 34

(7,369.32)

$1.767,842.49

$2,630,839.41

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

77

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY

SEVENTY-FIVE YEAR BUTTON

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
I have the honor to present to you my Second Annual Report as
Grand Secretary.

I wish to report that Edward Gardiner Dodge, a member of Santa
Barbara Lodge No. 192, became eligible for a Seventy-Five Y ear
Veteran Button on June 18, 1962. This award was presented to him
on July 12, 1962.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

LODGE UNDER DISPENSATION

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Masonic Historical Monuments, page 239, 1961 Proceedings.
2. Trial Manual. page 279, 1961 Proceedings.
3. Trial Record No. 1554, page 274, 1961 Proceedings.
4. Trial Record No. 1726, page 278, 1961 Proceedings.

Woodland H ills Lodge, U .D. was instituted on June 14, 1962.
This Lodge did not collect dues fo r the year ending June 30, 1962.
Therefore, in accord with precedent the G rand Master at our suggestion, directed that Woodland Hills Lodge be not required to pay the
per capita tax. It is respectfully requested that this be approved.

CHARTER ENDORSEMENTS

I wish at this point in my report to bring to the attention of the
Officers of the Lodges in particular, and the membership in general,
the result of some of the activity of this office.
During the past few years there have been about 6,000 to 7,000
applicants for the Degrees each year. Once an applicant has been elected
in a Lodge it is only a matter of a few weeks, or months, before he
becomes a Master Mason. Hence, the number of cards in the file
indicating Candidates in process should remain faidy constant.
About a year ago an analysis of the Candidates' file disclosed tha t
it actually contained about twice the usual number of names. Much
to the staff's sur,Prise it was learned that many average size Lodges
had from 12 to 41 names in the fi le. In some instances this represented
as much as 7% of the total membership of the Lodge. These Candidates
have shown no interest in going beyond the First or Second Degree.
They have been inactive for more than five years. Hence, they were
eligible for the application of Section 546, C alifornia M asonic Code,
which reads in part:
"If a Candidate does not present himself properly qualified for
the Second and Third Degrees within a period of five years from
the date of his ini tiation as an Entered Apprentice, the Master
<Shall direct the Secretary to forward to such Candidate, by reg i s~
tered mail to his last known address, a notice advising him that
unless he shall present himself for advancement on or before a
specified date (at least sixty days in advance) his fee s for the
unconferred degrees and all of his previous contributions will be
declared forfeited."
This Section of our law was enacted to make it possible to keep a
Lodge membership up to date, but it raises some serious questions.
The potenNal is somewhat a larming. Some of these cards date as far
back as 1943 which indicates that either Section 546 should have been

MEMBERSHIP

Change of Meeting Place:
Truth Lodge No. 628 has changed its meeting place from Los
Angeles to North Hollywood. Benevolence Lodge No. 631 has changed
its meeting place from North Hollywood to Los Angeles. Florence
Lodge No. 649 has changed its meeting place from Los Angeles to
Walnut Park.
These changes of meeting place have been officially approved under
the authority of the Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary now
requests authority to properly endorse their Charters.
Consolidation of Lodges:
All requirements of the law respecting consolidation having been
complied with by San Francisco Lodge No. 360 and Victory. Lodge
No. 474 they consolidated, effective November 29, 1961. with the
approval of the Grand Master, the Lodge to be known as San FranciscoVictory Lodge No. 360, located at San Francisco.
All requirements of the law respecting consolidation having been
complied with by Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235 and North East
Lodge No. 266 they consolidated with the approval of the Grand
Master, effective July I. 1962, the Lodge to be known as Surprise Valley
Lodge No. 235, located at Cedarville.
The Grand Secretary requests authority to properly endorse these
Charters.
REPLACEMENT OF CHARTERS

The following Lodges notified this office that they cannot locate
their original Charters, and they requested that replacement Charters
be furnished.
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481-replacement furnished January 1962.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410-replacement furnished February
1962.
Acalanes Lodge No. 723-replacement furnished March 1962.

78

PROCEEDING S OP THE

invoked a long time ago or, by Lodge Action, time should have been
extended for the conferring of Degre~s. It seems to be a real indictment
of some of our investigatin g committees. It may also be a further indictment of the Lodge Officers for not doing a proper follow-up after the
applicant is elected to membership. Regardless of what may have created
this situation, the Officers of each Lodge may be well-advised to rev·iew
their own situation. They will then be in a better position to determine
a course of action to solve their peculiar problem, should one ex ist in
the Lodge.
It will take more than a year to complete the task we have undertaken. We started with Lodge No. 1 and are reviewing the condition
of each Lodge in numerical sequence. It is a time-consuming task to
communicat e with each Lodge concerning these Candidates. Lodges
not yet contacted could help us by reviewing their own files. A real
effort should be made to rekindle the interest of the worthy Entered
Apprentice or F ellow Craft before declaring a forfeiture under Section
516. C .M.C.
The second observation recorded in this report is the result of
another special study dealing with suspensions for non-paymen t of
dues, Article VI, Sections 571-582, C.M.C. The law is very clear. There
is no latitude as to its intent. There is, however, ample leeway as to
its application.
The Lodge has no option but to suspend a Brother when he loses
interest and refuses to pay his dues. unless the delinquent dues committee (Section 577-£) or Officers of the Lodge are able to convince
him of the worth of Masonry. If. on the other hand. there is a reasonable hope that he may change his mind, the Lodge could either remit
his dues or at least grant further time (Secion 579(a) (b) ) .
The concern here is twofold: In 1962 the number of Brethren losing
membership in their Blue Lodges through suspension for non-paymen t
of dues was 1511, which is almost double the number suspended ten
years ago. Membership in 1953 was 213.639 against 2·H,212 in 1962.
The suspensions are all out of proportion.
A special study of 116 suspensions revealed that 41 had maintained
good standing for 20 years or more with no prior suspensions . One
member was suspended for non-paymen t of dues after 51 years of
unblemished membership. Another Brother, a dual member, was suspended a fter 37 years of unbroken membership.
There may be justification for each of these suspensions , but are
we, who are in positions of responsibility, doing our part before the
final s uspension is declared? The magnitude of the problem seems to
justify recording it here with the hope that our leaders will, in their
own way, render unto every man his just due. It would seem that, if
a Brother had proven himself. suspension for non-paymen t of dues
should be delayed until every effort has been made to ascertain the

79

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

cause. This is particularly important when we realize that the number
suspended during the year represents approximate ly 25 % o f all applications received during that period.
The purpose of this report is to make all of the members aware of
the problem in the hope that before final. drastic action is taken every
effort will be made to avoid the necessity of suspension.
What we are saying is that interest in our Lodges is a t a low ebb.
Could it be that by keeping in closer touch with our members, either
by special letter or by personal calls or committe activities, we could
eliminate much of this problem. We must continue to guard well our
West Gate. but once men have proven themselves let us do all we can
to maintain their interest in this great Fraternity of select men.

MEMBERSHI P SUMMARY

1959
1958
New Lodges Formed ..........
5
9
7,255
Initiated ................................ 7,606
6,946
7,542
Passed ·---····---··-·····-···· ·····----·
......................
.
7,905
........................
7,047
Raised
2.338
AtTiliated ········------···········----2,428
Reinstated ········--·----····--·- ----316
339
1,714
Withdrawn ····-······-·--·---------1,806
Suspended for Non1,270
1,058
Payment of Dues ............
Suspended or
42
Expelled for Cause..........
45
Died ............................................ 4,087
4,219
Number of Members .......... 237,654* 240,128*
3,437
Dues Remitted ·---··--·····--·---- 3,113
Gain .............................................
3,553
2,474
Loss ------·········-------···········----691
682
Number of Lodges..............
•Plural Members
(Included in total) ..........
1,604
1,275
••Excluded in total
(4 Research L odges) (Members 321)

1960
5
7,056
6,755
6,805
2,308
320
1,878

1961
5
6,815
6,589
6,698
2,404
367
1,983

1962
4
6,426
6,132
6,330
2,440
362
2,066

1,413

1,449

1,514

40
4,411
241,819*
3,381
1,691

35
4,475
243,346•
3,415
1,527

23
4,633
244.242*
3,451
896

696

700

703 ..

1,372

1,448

1,653

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NEwLooGES

The following new Lodges were formed during the year:
Los Alamitos Lodge U. D .. located at Artesia. Dispensation granted
November 27, 1961. The Lodge was instituted February 9, 19~2'. at
Santa Ana, Most Worshipful Guy B. Mize, Grand Master, pres1dmg.
The charter membership is as follows: Paul Atlee Burtner ( Maste~) •
Tommy Earl Parker (Senior Warden), John Henry Hardy (Junior
Warden). Tim George Pool. Carrol Jay Curtis, Erwin Jacob Imhof,
George William Goldhorn, Stephen Kelly Freeman, R. Vernon Anderson, Martin Sommer, George Stanley Briggeman, Rolley Frank Allen,
Barry Don Hook, James Nolan Graham, Stanley Watson Dilatush,
Ralph Stewart, I. Glenn Lance, George Farrell Feldm1ller. Harry Delbert Bartlett, Neal King Rieffanaugh. Milroy Brandel. Allen Owen
Brashear, Roy Edgar Turner. Doss Shirling Jones, Lee. ~cComas
Whistler, Victor Aaron Virgilio, Gordon Elliott Earll, Wilham John
Amann Kenneth Preston Williams, Lloyd Ellis Noeller. Clifford Kenneth Hart, William Loyd Webb. Thomas Weldon Harris, Archie
Gilbert Allison. Tyrrel Wayne Smith, Harold Hymie Gordon and
Vinnie Leslie Murphy.
Victoria Palms Lodge U. D., located at Riverside. Dispensation
granted February 9, 1962. The Lodge was instituted March 14, .1 ~62,
at Riverside. Most Worshipful Guy B. Mize, Grand M.lster, pres1dmg.
The charter membership is as follows: Alfred Rudolph Ruhnau
(Master). Maurice B. Hawkins (Senior Warden). Willis Gra~am
Moxon (Junior Warden). Lewis Carl Malone, Frank Thomas Ewmg,
Walter Roland Napier, Robert James Carpenter, Donald Edwin Rice,
Albert Leslie Barber, Jr .. Robert Francis Boyler, Everett Carl Love,
George Wingo Robb. John Carlyle Pearce, Fred L~ther Freeman,
Robert Eugene Cooter, Zollie Ernest Hair, Noble Smith Elder, Leon
Horace Cooter, Aubrey Eugene Shoaf. Erwin Ernest Stockebrand, Jay
Henry Bouton. Russell Irvin Mennett, Merritt Cecil Matheral, Horace
Martin McCoury, Bennett Faye Baldwin , Jr.. M ark Turner Ellsworth. Carl Royal Marsing. Robert Lee Hirt, Edward Christian Erickson, Spencer David Bothwell, Htide Avie Bryant and Robert Carl
Hermes.
Woodland Hills Lodge U. D .. located at Canoga Park. Dispensation granted June 8, 1962. The Lodge was instituted June 14, 19~2: at
Canoga Park, Most Worshipful Guy B. Mize, Grand Master, pres1dmg.
The charter membership is as follows: Samuel Crystal (Master)•
John Markley Server, Jr. (Senior Warden), John Sherman Lucas
(Junior Warden). John Southard Andrews, Ralph Victor Andrew~.
Ray Armstrong, Charles Edward Beisgen, Donald Thomas Francis

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

81

Biller. Donald Arthur Bremer, Robert Harold Bremer, William Shirley
Dean, John Christopher Deister, William Harley Deloach, Tillman
Vaught Eggleston, Glenn O tis Gager, Harlan Gordon Galbreath, Samuel T. Gilpin, Murvel Oliver Glass, Eugene Cavour Greene, Robert
Gregory. Ra lph Ellis Hamilton, Robert Austin Huggins, Gus Emil
Jernberg. Curtis Waller Kendall, Thorp Alexis Klumph. Reginald
Lawrence Knowles, Charles Austin Litten, Royal Irving Lowe, Jack A.
Mauck, John Henry Morgan. Emanuel Max Morris. Russell F loyd
Neely. James Foster Nelson, June Garner Niles, Llewellyn Maurice
Orphan. Howard James Perkins, Richard Adams Potter, James Edgar
Riddle, Arthur Ernst Schultz, John Henry Sipes, Stuart Norman Thomson, Charles Alfred Vucha, Charles Augustus Walters. Ralph Gordon
Wanless. Clyde Russell Welker, John Scouten Williams, William
Robert W illiams. Archer Wilbur Wilson, Kenneth Lee Wilson and
George Frederick W right.
Triad Lodge U. D .. located at Montebello. Dispensation granted
July 30. 1962. The Lodge was instituted August 28. 1962. at Montebello, Most Worshipful Guy B. Mize, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Leonard Rasmussen (Master). Carol Dillin Kaylor (Senior Warden), Allan Travers TerBush
(Junior Warden). John Ainilian, Leonard Elmor Jones, Kenneth Richard Crone, Chester S. Kellogg. Herbert Matsner Gruenberg, Andrew
J. Marek, James Frederick Wolfe, Maurice Boone Noble, Raymond
Philip Risher, Edwin Foster Seaward, Lewis William Ruck, Wilbur
Forrest Dicken~. John Arthur Gabriel, Graham Duane Councell, Fred
Bellettini, Edruth David Helwig, Joseph Raymond Zazueta, Howard
James Simpkins, Leonard Kleeger. John Edward Schlener, Frank H arring Gonzales, Morrie Hoffman , Harold Lynell Pratt, Arthur M.
Agajanian, Haig Papaian, George Benton Skidmore, Edward Samuelian, Ralph Salcido, John Clarence Martz, Jack Arakelian, Dale
McMurtrey, H erbert Melvin Stearns, Martin Maxwell Koffman, George
Robert Miller, Jack Le Roy Moring, Mike Mayo, Arthur Milton Jones.
Robert Lee Karnes, David Battle Pollard and F rederick Gustave
Carlson.
Old West Lodge U.D .. located at Newhall, Dispensation granted
September 13, 1962. The Lodge was instituted October 2, 1962. at San
Fernando, Most Worshipful Guy B. Mize. Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Alexander Hamilton Campbell (Master). Charles Erwin Taylor (Senior Warden). George Linas
Mentzer (Junior Warden) . Lowell Clarzell Alexander. Sherman Walter
Anderson, James Emerson Bacon. William George Bonelli, Jr., W illiam
Albert Brick, Kenneth Edgar Casperson, Victor Robert Cie Chanski,
Raymond Amsey Eaton, Donald Ross Frew, Mark Thomas Gates,

82

83

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

William Guy Gilmour, Lewis Robert Givens, Frederick Edward Goddard, Daniel William Graybill . Oliver Clair Heximer, Hiram Franklin
Humphry, Glendon Durell Jackson, Conrad Theodore Lindstrom, Clarence Mellwood MacDougall, Glen Malcolm McCallum, Forrest Emmett Maguire, Oram Lee Martin. Cecil Ben Martens, Robert David
Moore, Roger Carl Morey, Omer Lee Morgan, Melbourne Loraine
Mosena, Hollis Arthur Mulcahy, Thomas Dutton Neely. Paul Ellis
Palmer, William Delaney Parks, Arthur Buckingham Perkins, Everett
Jesse Phillips. Earl Russell Reed, Serafin Withers Rensen, Edgar Hislop
Rice, Floyd Adams Sands, William Rex Servoss, Elton Maynard Sims,
Max Dewey Sinclair, Charles LeRoy Wild . Quentin Reid Wilson , John
Vanderhof Witt and Eddie Joseph Hanks.

4()9, to $375.00; Vallejo No. 487, to $350.00; Cahuenga No. 513. to
$400.00; Signal No. 543, to $375.00; East San D iego No. 561, to
$500.00; Granada No. 608. to $375.00.
Fixing fee: San Francisco - Victory No. 360. at $375.00.

DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Temple
No. 14; Penrhyn No. 258; Bay View No. 401; Inglewood No. 421;
Temblor No. 477: Justice No. 549; Argonne No. 514; West Adams No.
565; Ojai No. 663; John P. Jarman No. 669; Crossroads No. 696; Lawndale No. 753; Channel No. 757; Five Points No. 779; Rolling Hills No.
781.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Arcata No. 106; Janesville No. 232; Welcome No. 255; Apollo No. 396; Schofield No. 443:
Delta No. 471 and Semper Virens No. 552.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: LaFayette
No. 126: Curtis No. 140; Fresno No. 247; Burbank No. 406; LaPuente
No. 446; Neptune No. 619; Magnolia Park No. 715; Oak Plains No.
789; American River No. 795; Camellia No. 805 and Conejo Valley
No. 807.
Special permission for conferring of degrees: La Parfaite Union
No. 17; Anchor No. 273; Sunset No. 352: Chino Valley No. 427;
Culver City No. 467; America No. 475; San Gabriel No. 546; Arcadia
No. 547: Southland No. 618; Truth No. 628; Liberal Arts No. 677;
Magnolia Park No. 715; West Covina No. 758 and General Henry H .
Arnold No. 791.
Miscellaneous: Chula Vista No. 626.
DISPENSATION DENIED

To open Lodge elsewhere than regular meeting place: Menorah
No. 623.
LIFE MEMBERSHIP

Increasing fee: Forbestown No. 50. to $500.00; Enterprise No. 70,
to $350.00; Downey No. 220, to $325.00; Solano No. 229, to $335.00;
Lodi No. 256, to $312.50; Silver Gate No. 296, to $450.00; Las Palmas
No. 366, to $420.00; Palos Verdes No. 389, to $375.00; Honolulu No.

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Santa Paula No. 291, to $90.00; A shlar No. 306.
to $75.00; Star King No. 344, to $100.00; La Puente No. 446, to $100.00;
Sojourner No. 607, to $140.00; Composite No. 639. to $175.00: Willow
Glen No. 676, to $115.00; Orinda No. 704, to $100.00; Home No. 721,
to $165.00; The Gabilan No. 803, to $105.00.
Decreasing fees: West Gate No. 335, to $165.00; Sojourner No.
607, to $115.00; Point Loma No. 620. to $90.00; Travelers No. 692,
to $100.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: El Cajon Valley No. 576. at $10.00.
Increasing affiliation fee : Sierra Valley No. 184. to $25.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Pearl Harbor No. 598; Henry Knox No.
662; Home No. 721.
Increasing dues: Temple No. 14. to $15.00; El Dorado No. 26, to
$15.00; Forbestown No. 50. to $15.00; Amador No. 65, to $16.00;
Enterprise No. 70, to $15.00: Curt is No. 140. to $15.00; Drytown No.
174, to $15.00; Downey N o. 220. to $15.00; Brooklyn No. 225, to $18.00;
Welcome No. 255, to $25.00; Lodi No. 256. to $15.00; Solano No. 229 ,
to $16.00; Silver Gate No. 296, to $18.00; Ashlar No. 306, to $18.00;
Alisa! No. 32 ( to $15.00; Oxnard No. 341, to $25.00; San Fernando
No. 343. to $20.00; Sunset No. 352, to $20.00; Mizpah No. 378, to
$15.00; Palos Verdes No. 389. to $18.00; La Puente No. 446 . to
$18.00; San Pasqual No. 452. to $18.00; Culver C ity No. 467, to $20.00:
Vallejo No. 487, to $16.00; Cahuenga No. 513. to $18.00; Ionic No. 520,
to $20.00; Sunrise No. 522. to $18.00; Belvedere No. 539. to $20.00;
Signal No. 543. to $18.00: West Adams No. 565. to $20.00; El Cajon
Valley No. 576. to $20.00: Compass No. 590, to $18.00; Harding No.
584, to $18.00; Carmelita No. 599, to $20.00; Grizzly No. 601, to $15.00;
Sojourner No. 607, to $20.00; Granada No. 608, to $18.00; Southland
No. 618. to $18.00; Angeles Mesa No. 625, to $18.00; San Clemente
No. 671, to $16.00: Far West No. 673. to $18.00; Willow Glen N o. 676,
to $18.00; Liberal Arts No. 677, to $20.00; Vista No. 687, to $15.00;
Orinda No. 704, to $18.00; Acalanes No. 723, to $20.00; Verdugo H ills
No. 727, to $20.00; Lemon Grove No. 736, to $20.00; Highland No. 748,
to $16.00; Josiah W. Roller No. 761. to $18.00; Mission Bay No. 771, to
$15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: King Solomon's No. 260; Arling~
ton No. 414; York No. 423; James A. Garfield No. 566; Truth No. 628;
Benevolence No. 631; San Gorgonio No. 668; Verdugo Hills No. 727;

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Centennial No. 729: San Dieguito No. 775: General Henry H. Arnold
No. 791; Camellia No. 805.
Fixing Stated Meeting date: Southern California Research Lodge.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Ocean Park No. 369: Highland
Park No. 382: Henry Knox No. 662.
Provision for legal holidays: East Belt No. 391: Covenant No. 527:
Tujunga No. 592; Citrol No. 656: George E. Tutt No. 722; Leland
Stanford No. 784: Ashland No. 798.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Oroville No. 103: Chico No. 111: San
Benito No. 211: Santa Lucia No. 302: Hollenbeck No. 319: San Jacinto
No. 338: San Francisco-Victory No. 360: Brawley No. 402: Honolulu
No. 409: Melrose No. 602: Anacapa No. 710: Los Alamitos U. D.:
Victoria Palms U. D.: Woodland Hills U. D.: Triad U. D.
Re Charity Committee: Fresno No. 247: Zenith No. 768.

No. 1730-A member of Lodi Lodge No. 256. Suspended October 5,
1961.
No. 1731-A Fellow Craft of Howard Lodge No. 37. Expelled January 2, 1962.
No. 1732-A member of Corinthian Lodge No. 9. Expelled October
4, 1961.
No. 1733-A member of Carquinez Lodge No. 337. Suspended December 6, 1961.
No. 1734-A member of All States Lodge No. 593. Expelled November
6, 1961.
No. 1735-A member of North Hollywood Lodge No. 542. Acquitted
Februa:ry 1, 1962.
No. 1736-A member of Harding Lodge No. 584. Expelled February
1, 1962.
No. 1737-A member of Madison Lodge No. 23. Expelled January 2,
1962.
No. 1738-A member of Visalia Lodge No. 128. Expelled February 8,
1962.
No. 1739-A member of Riverbank Lodge No. 459. Expelled March 1,
1962.
No. 1740-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Expelled
March 1, 1962.
No. 1741-A member of Van Nuys Lodge No. 450. Expelled February
6, 1962.
.
No. 1742-A member of Concord Lodge No. 117. Expelled March 6,
1962.
No. 1743-A member of Martinez Lodge No. 41. Suspended March 1,
1962.
No. 1744-A member of Solano Lodge No. 229. Expelled May 7, 1962.
No. 1745-An Entered Apprentice of Oceanside Lodge No. 381. Expelled May 7, 1962.
No. 1746-A member of an Indiana Lodge. Expelled June 7, 1962.
No. 1747-A member of Delano Lodge No. 309. Expelled June 7, 1962.
No. 1748-A member of Mineral King Lodge No. 720. Acquitted June
6, 1962.
No. 1749-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Suspended April
4, 1962.
No. 1750-A member of Temple City Lodge No. 612. Expelled July 3,
1962.
No. 1751-A member of Howard Lodge No. 37. Expelled July 3, 1962.
No. 1752-A member of Manchester Lodge No. 585. Expelled May 1,
1962.

RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Los Angeles No. 42: Santa Rosa No. 57:
Curtis No. 140: Welcome No. 255: Palestine No. 351; Arlington No.
414: Chino Valley No. 427: Mount Olive No. 506: Utopia No. 537:
Hemet No. 615: Truth No. 628: Benevolence No. 631: Florence No.
649: Verdugo Hills No. 727: Luther Burbank No. 752: Arabic No. 763:
San Dieguito No. 775: Conejo Valley No. 807.
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 1316-Petition for restoration. A member of East Gate Lodge No.
290. Expelled October 2, 1952.
No. 1554-(Retrial). A member of Mendocino No. 179. Expelled
September 14, 1957.
1630-Petition
for restoration. A member of Fresno Lodge No.
No.
247. Expelled June 12, 1959.
No. 1636-Petition for restoration. A member of Rising Light Lodge
No. 397. Expelled August 5, 1959.
1651-Petition
for restoration. A member of The Gardens Lodge
No.
No. 621. Expelled November 4, 1959.
No. 1652-Petition for restoration. A member of The Gardens Lodge
No. 621. Expelled November 4, 1959.
No. 1699-(Retrial). A member of El Cerrito Lodge No. 705. Expelled
November 6, 1961.
No. 1726-A member of Fort Crook Lodge No. 575. Suspended May
9, 1961. Restored by York Grand Lodge of Mexico June 20,
1962. Restored by Fort Crook Lodge June 20, 1962.
No. 1728-A member of Washington Lodge No. 20. Expelled October
5, 1961;
No. 1729-A member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621. Expelled Oc..
tober 4, 1961.

85

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 1753-A member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397. Suspended November 7, 1961.
No. 1754-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Expelled July 11,
1962.
No. 1755-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Suspended July 11,
1962.
No. 1756-A member of an Iowa ·Lodge. Expelled July 9, 1962.
No. 1757-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Expelled
August 2, 1962.
No. 1758-A member of Bellflower Lodge No. 523. Expelled August 7,
1962.
No. 1759-An Entered Apprentice of Citrol Lodge No. 656. Expelled
August 7, 1962.
No. 1760-A member of Centennial Lodge No. 729. Expelled August 6,
1962.
No. 1761-A Fellow Craft of San Leandro Lodge No. 744. Expelled
August 7, 1962.
No. 1762-A member of La Brea Lodge No. 650. Expelled August 7,
1962.
No. 1763-A member of Oildale Lodge No. 688. Expelled November 3,
1961.
No. 1764-A member of West Gate Lodge No. 335. Suspended June 4,
1962.
No. 1765-A member of Palestine Lodge No. 351. Expelled August 6,
1962.
No. 1766-A member of Garvanza Lodge No. 492. Expelled September
4, 1962.
No. 1767-A member of Sojourner Lodge No. 607. Expelled August 4,
1962.
No. 1768-A member of Melrose Lodge No. 602. Acquitted April 3,
1962.
No. 1769-A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437. Expelled August 1,
1962.
No. 1770-A member of Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691. Suspended April 5, 1962.

87

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS

Issued September 1, 1961 through August 31, 1962 (622)
Total Issued to Date 7976
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Aaroe, Anton, Santa Lucia No. 302......................................................... November 23, 1911
Abbey, Earl R., Anaheim No. 207........·-··············································--January 15, 1912
Abbott, Ernest Andrew, Friendship No. 210...........................................June 5, 1911
Abernathy, Fred Clive, Guadalupe No. 237......·-··········-················-····-July 22, 1912
Abrams, Sylvain S., Doric Lodge No. 216..·-······························-·········September 15, 1910
Adams, Percy Townsend, Presidio No. 354............................................February 29, 1912
Aird, Thomas Henry, East San Diego No. 561.. ..·-········-················-···September 25, 1911
Akin, Cyrus Arthur, Garvanza No. 492...................................................0ctober 20, 1911
Alexander, Carl Roach, Harbor No. 502..·-··········-································August 21, 1912
Alexander, Frank W., Redlands No. 300................................................ 0ctober H, 1910
Allen, Harvey Beckwith, California No. 1.......................................- .....September 7, 1911
Allen, Reginald Pearce, Eagle Rock No. 422... __ .................................. .December 13, 1911
Allen, Robert Henry, Morning Star No. 68.............................................June 1, 1912
Andersen, Ludwig Christian Peter Niemann...........................................August 22, 1912
Anderson, James Blane, Claremont No. 436............................................ November 17, 1909
Appling, Alfred Arthur, Santa Ana No. 241.....................- .................... February 7, 1911
Apsley, Richard, Bakersfield No. 224 ...................................................... April 11, 1912
Apt, Herman Otto, Ocean Park No. 369........... - ....................................0ctober 3, 1911
Armour, Guthrie Coupar, Fresno No. 247...............................................April 4, 1911
Baer, Sr., Monroe, Starr King No. 344.--------···········-··-····-··-···-·-··.April 17, 1912
Bailey, John Emil, West Lake No. 392 ....................................................June 26, 1912
Bain, William Guy, Bakersfield No. 224................................................. February 11, 1909
Baird, Hugh, Whittier No. 323... _............................................................ May 28, 1912
Baker, John Blair, Thousand Oaks No. 478 ............................................ June 15, 1912
Baldwin, Leonard G .. Fillmore No. 379................................................... December 6, 1911
Ballantine, Robert Miller, Santa Rosa No. 57......................................... November 11, 1911
Barber, Albert Hale, Marin No. 191................................................... _....July 26, 1911
Barrett, Jasper James, San Diego No. 35.................................................July 9, 1906
Baylor, William Alvin, Fraternity No. 399....................... _....................May 25, 1911
Beach, Melville Clinton, Fruitvale No. 336............................................ December 13, 1911
Beals, Charles Clinton, Sun Garden No. 530........·-················-·············.May 5, 1911
Beattle, Charles Robert, Reseda No. 666................................................. June 10, 1905
Beckett, Harry Cutler, Eagle Rock No. 422...........................- ...............May 30, 1910
Beers, Charles Lester, Ramona No. 457...................................................April 19, 1912
Beeson, Edward Ives, Sotoyome No. 123..............·-····-······················-.December 30, 1911
Beeson, Frank H., Florence No. 649.........................................................February 9, 1912
Behymer, Glenarvon, Pentalpha No. 202 ... _............................................November 21, 1911
Bennett, Milton George Erwin, Lexington No. 104.-.............................May 10, 1905
Bennyhoff, James Roy, Three Pillars No. 613........·-····-··········-·······--·.Aprill 10, 1911
Benson, Harry Jeffs, Parnassus No. 388..................................................June 25, 1912
Berman, William, West Gate No. 335 ..·-····-··········································May 18, 1911
Betz, Frederick Hurbert, Washington No. 20.........................................November 9, 1911
Biesenthal, Allen Mayer, West Lake No. 392 ........................................ .January 10, 1912
Bingham, Hubert Abel, Pent~!.Pha No. 202 ............................................. 0ctober 10, 1911
Birth, Otto Fred, Pentalpha No. 202....·-····-···········································February 20, 1912
Bishop, James William, Buena Park No. 357...............................:......... .May 11, 1909
Black, Ernest C., Hesperian No. 264 ....................................................... .May 25, 1912
Black, Roy Harry, Corinthian No. 9.................................- ..................... July 12, 1911
Blackmer, William W., Lassen No. 149.................................................. September 6, 1911
Blaisdell, Edgar F0ttest, Santa Cruz No. 38..·-··········-····-···-······-··--Septembt.r 4, 1911
Bolton, George Free, Corinthian No. 9--·····-·····-····-···········-··-·····--·January 9, 1912
Bonham, William Harland, Three Pillars No. 613•.·--·-···-··-···--·..Marcb 12, 1910
Border, Samuel, Glendale No. 544-----······-·-·-···-········-·---··-····January.9# 1908
Bornstein, Solly, Pacific No. 136...·--····-··-··---·--··········----~ •'912
Box, Reuben Preston, Trln!ty No. 27...._......_...- ....--........
••.Nn mW24, 1911

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
NAME AND LODGE

89

DATE OF RAISING

Boyd, Sydney Easley, P.omona No. 246........·-··········-·········-················June 7, 1910
Brandt, Frederick Henry, Bay View No. 401.......:................................. anuary 19, 1911
Brazelton, John McKnight, Vacavllle No. 134..·-····-··················--·-····· une 1, 1911
Brenner, Avraam, West Gate No. 335........................................·-······---November 30, 1911
Briggs, Harry J., Arlington No. 414.. ·-······-····-····--·········-··-·······-····--··September 28, 1911
Broderick, Cyril Aubrey, Honolulu No. 409...........................................August 30, 1911
Brooks, Lon Addison, Beverly Hills No. 528.....................---·-·············March 23, 1911
Brown, Benjamin Theodore, Elk Grove No. 173.........................·-··-····.November 26, 1910
Brown. Leroy G., Laguna Beach No. 672..·-····-····-··········-····-····-··--!\.J'ril 21, 1911
Brulef':i Archie, Glear Lake No. 183...... ·-···-····················-········-··-·····--··--March 12, 1912
Bub. enry Randolph, Silver Gate No. 296·---······-··--·--···-·······--·······-···-wY 29, 1912
Buedel. Ludwig Joseph, Moneta No. 405.................. ---············-·············- une 13, 1912
Bullmer, Charles H., Mizpah No. 378...................................................... ovember 27, 1911
Burden. Harry Lee, Big Bear No. 617....................·-················-····-······.March 15, 1912
Burgess, Frank Doy!. Berkeley No. 363.................................................. January 26, 1911
Burnett, Charles Louis, Exeter No. 424..·-··········-····-····························March 18, 1912
Burns, jfhn Edward, Hawaiian No. 21....................................................February 14, 1912
Bums, obert J., Beverly Hills No. 528.... ·-·········-····-·············--···-··-···-June 29, 1912
Burroughes, Ellis Bartholomew, Pasadena No. 272.............•..................September 26, 1911
Burson, Clarence Fowler, Fillmore No. 379 ............. ---·-··-··········-····----May 15, 1912
Busch, Frederick William, Ramona No. 457...........................................July 23, 1912
Carrington, Otis Mllls, Redwood City No. 168......................................February 3, 1912
Carson, Lillard Hanson, Long Beach No. 327......................................-August 10, 1911
Casselman, Anson Adam, Union No. 58..................................................0ctober 19, 1910
Cavanagh, Frank Marshall, Burlingame No. 400..................................December 30, 1909
Cavner, Clarence Mathew, Jubilee No. 604..·-·······--------···-····-··············June 13, 1912
Cerf, Arthur, Pacific No. 136.................................................................... May 24, 1912
Chadbourne, Jr .. Joseph Robert, Suisun No. 55.......................................December 15, 1911
Chamberlain, Horace Lorenzo, Stanislaus No. 206................................May 29, 1911
Chapman, Wesley Edward, Needles No. 326........................................February 26, 1912
Chaudet, Louis William, Hollywood No. 355.........................................July 8, 1911
Choate, James Roy, West Lake No. 392................................................. 0ctober 18, 1911
Christensen, Chris Frederic, Eden No. 113............................................. 0ctober 25, 1911
Christensen, William Peter, Oak Grove No. 215 ............----·················.August 4, 1910
Christian, Winter West, Magnolia No. 242........................................... March 15, 1912
Clapp, Stacy Wendall, Pomona No. 246.................................................November 1, 1910
Clark, Herman Foster, Tuscan No. 261...................................................0ctober 26, 1911
Clark, Sr., Manvel David, South West No. 283 .................................... ,June 26, 1911
Claussenius, Carl H., Hollywood No. 355 ....-----·-················-···············-January 15, 1909
Clements, Stiles, Oliver, Beverly Hills No. 528......................................May 27, 1912
Clifford, Charles Alford, West Lake No. 392 ......................................... August 5, 1911
Cohn, Samuel F., Fidelity No. 120...........................................................April 25, 1912
Collins, Nelson Ernest, Summit No. 112.................................................May 25, 1912
Colon, Walter Elnor, Coalinga No. 387..................................................November 4, 1911
Coltrin, Ray Earl, Covina No. 334.. ·-·······-················--··························September 16, 1911
Condues, William Konstantine, Live Oak No. 61.. ................................0ctober 20, 1911
Coney, Milton Alexander, Brooklyn No. 225......................................... A_pril 16, 1912
Conner, James Henry, Richmond No. 375..·--········-·················-···········November 20, 1911
Conrad, Earl Valisca, Friendship No. 210..................................----·····-June 27, 1912
Constine, Sr.. Louis Sanders, Starr King No. 344...................................0ctober 25, 1911
Cook, Gordon Irving, Palo Alto No. 346....................................·-·-······-June 18, 1912
Cooper, Joe E., Lodi No. 256...........·-··················-························-·······February 15, 1912
Copp, Joseph Pettee, Southern California No. 278................................ April 17, 1912
Cornett. William Frederick. Pasadena No. 272 .......- .............................July 27, 1911
Counter, Will C., Redwood City No. 168..·-··-···········--······················May 3, 1911
Covell, Calvin Arthur, Athens No. 228......................................•............ August 10, 1912
Craig, James Francis, Apollo No. 396..................................·-···-··········-.Tune 25, 1912
Crane, Delbert Roy, Elsinore No. 289..........................·--·····················JVIay 29, 1912
Crowl, Ralph Sylvester, Fresno No. 247.
April 8,1911
Cunningham, Arva Warren, West Lake No. 392. ______ __J)ecember 14, 1911

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OF RAISING

Damon, Henry Jacot, Presidio No. 354.................... ---········-········--····---luly 11, 1912
Daniels, Harry D., Greenleaf No. 670.................. ·-··························-····November 19, 1908
Daniels, Wallace Graham, Golden State No. 358.-.............................. December 27, 1911
Danielson, Carl Rudolph, Alexandria No. 531.. .................................- ...February 13, 1911
Davidson, George, Henry S. Orme No. 458...........................................June 24, 1905
Davies, Charles Edward, Palestine No. 351............----···························February 26, 1912
Dean, James Somerville, Sacramento No. 40.......................................... April 27, 1908
Dearing, Jasper Newton, Amity No. 370...........................................- ... May 31, 1912
De Boer, Albert, Jewel No. 374................................................................ September 25, 1908
Decker, Martin Arthur, Fruitvale No. 336............. ·-·--·····················-···--December 9, 1911
Deising, Walter Hugh, Guadalupe No. 237_··---···--·-···-··--~27, 1912
Delawle, Fred Ely, Magnolia No. 242.......·-··---··---··-··---June 20; 1911
Denison, Harry E., Altadena No. 678..·-··········································-····0ctober H, 1911
Detwiler, William Harold, Palos Verdes No. 389 .. ·-····--··············-·······May 24, 1911
De Witt, Marcus Golder, Enterprise No. 70..·-······················-·············.March 16, 1912
Diebold, Charles Clovis, Richmond No. 375..·-·······--····························-January 29, 1912
Dietterle, Howard Lee, California No. 1-...................................•............ November 23, 1911
Di Fiore, Domenico, Fraternity No. 399 ................................................. August 23, 1911
Dodd, Nathan Thomas, Sunset No. 352..............·-···-····-·-··········--·····--·June 17, 1910
Doerr, Henry Charles, Leland Stanford No. 784....................................September 27, 1911
Domecq, Peter John, Ashlar No. 306...................................- ...................November 30, 1911
Donivan, Charles Edwin, East Gate No. 290..........................................February 6, 1912
Doolittle, Edward Whitney, San Pedro No. 332...........---················-···0ctober 26, 1911
Doph, Robert Bums, S~uoia No. 349 .......·-·····-··································-June 25, 1912
Drahos, Adolph, Eden No. 113.................................................................May 20, 1910
Dresser, Walter Prescott, Melrose No. 602............................................ February 29, 1912
Drier, Neils Peter Frederick, Berkeley No. 363...................................January 26, 1911
Du ey, Chester G., Mill Valley No. 356.......................... ·-··················-April 25, 1912
Duncan, Benjamin, Coleman, King David's No. 209..............................June 24, 1912
Dunton, George, Santa Ana No. 241....................---····-·······················-· uly 21, 1911
Durham, Herbert Hiram, San Miguel No. 285........................................ une 8, 1912
Eastman, George White, Fruitvale No. 336............................................September 25, 1911
Eckert, Adolph Folker, Brawley No. 402................................................ September 2, 1907
Eggert, Edmund, Silveyville No. 201...................................................... November 25, 1911
Eggleston, Charles W., Silver Cord No. 505.......................................... May 9, 1911
Ehrlich, Milton S., Santa Ynez Valley No. 701..................................... February 22, 1912
Elftman, Oscar Alexander, Sequoia No. 349...........................................0ctober 23, 1911
Elliot, Harold Frederick, Sequoia No. 349 .............................................. February 20, 19ti
Ellis, Elbert Monroe, Long Beach No. 327............................................. July 24, 1912
Elsey, Francis Ray, Service No. 594......................................................June 30, 1912
Englehardt, Herman Louie, Oakland No. 188........................................November 18, 1911
Epperson, Sidney Roswe!l, Presidio No. 354.......................................... 0ctober 26, 1911
Eriksen, Thomas, Balder No. 393.... ·-··--··········-·------·-···············----··········August 23, 1912
Erickson, Charles Emil, Starr King No. 344 ........................................... April 24, 1912
Erskine, Donald Stuart, Unity No. 368 ....................................................June 25, 1911
Erskine, Eugene Trahon, Clay No. 101...........-······························-·····September 30, 1911
Estes, Roy Gordon, Chico No. 11 L..................·-················-·················A pril 13, 1912
Evans, Frank Arden, Jewel No. 374... _...................................................July 23. 1909
Ewing, Frank Arthur, Hawthorne No. 647............................................. September 26, 1911
Fabre, Albert J., La Parfaite Union No. 17·----··-·-----·--- -March 25, 1910
Fanshawe, George Richardson, Los Angeles No. 42--·-·-··----July 15, 1912
Fassett, Edward Livingston, Las Palmas No. 366...----·-·-------..Mav 16, 1912
Faulkner, Charles B., Arcadia No. 547...- - - - - · _...
• May 28, 1912
Fawver, Willis Floyd, Wilshire No. -H5.·-·--···--········---- --....NoVembet29, 1911
Fee, John Hauser, Stanislaus No. 206-·--··-·····
MIJ 18, 1911
Felt, Arthur Bullard, Mizpah No. 378...
27, 1912
Finch, Milton Albert. Malta No. 661...________________
;
31, 1911

-···--·---··- ·--·j;

90

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAMB AND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
0.0.TB OP RAISING

Finger, Clyde Pinckney, Lakeshore No. 551... ........................................January 26, 1912
Finley, William Custer, East Gate No. 290 ............................................ December I, 1911
Fisher, Loren A., Janesville No. 232 .........................................................June 29, 1912
Fisk, Fred A., Tuolumne No. 8................................................................. December 27, 1909
Fleisig, Frank, Pacific No. 136 & Soquel N o. 746...................................January 2, 1912
Pletcher, Joseph Carpenter, Ingleside No. 630.................... ................... October 24, 1911
Fordyce, G eorge, Surprise Valley No. 235............................................. August 5, 1912
Foster, Frederick Townse nd, Ca lifornia No. !.. .....................................May 23, 191 2
Fowler, Morton Barzillai, San Diego No. 35 ..........................................0ctober21. 1911
Fowles, William Cleveland. Hollenbeck No. 319 ...................................0 ctober 31, 191 l
Franks, Pierce McDonald, Exeter No. 424..............................................November 4, 1911
Fra zer, Fred, Ashla r No. 306.................................................................... Aprll 29. 1909
Frey. Sigmund, West Lake No. 392.........................................................September 25, 1911
Friday, Perley Gordon, Yolo No. 81........................................................May 13, 1911
Frymire, De Witt Talmage, Olive Branch N o. 269 ....... ........................ June 21, 1912
Fulmis, Marion D .. Sunset No. 352.......................................................... February 20, 1912
Funk, Charles D., Rising Light No. 397...................................................January 2, 1909
Furze, William Richard, Las Palmas No. 366......................................... uly 28, 1911
Fyles, James Henry, Coalinga No. 387 .................................................... uly 3, 1909
Garrett. Benjamin Fra nklin Wilson, Park Boulevard No. 568 ..............0ctober 31, 1911
Gaus. Charles C .. Nevada No. 13............................................................ August 10, 1907
Geisclhart, Karl Stephen, Friendship No. 21 O........................................ .December 14, I 911
Gerrard, Arthur Milne, Palms No. 512 .................................................... May 8. 1912
Gcwe, Henry Robert, Guadalupe No. 237...............................................0ctober 2, 191 I
Gibson, Albert C., Brentwood No. 345 .....................................................July 20, 1912
Gill. Harley Hayes. Sacramento No. 40.................................................. April 22, 1912
Girtner, Alfred, A mity No. 370.................................................................March 29, 1912
Girton, Tom C .. Hollenbeck No. 319........................................................May 22, 1907
Goble. Edmund James. Loyalton No. 359................................................ January 2, 1909
Goecken, Louis 1-1 .. Hermann No. 127......................................................September 25. 1911
Gold, Louis Mark, Pac ific No. 136........................................................... August 27, 1912
Goodheart, Clarence Isaac, Fidelity No. 120...........................................luly 18, 1912
Greaves, William Leppington, Fruitvale No. 336................................. _ anuary 31, 1912
Green, Robert Gustave, California No. !................................................. anuary 25, 1912
Greene, Fred Annette, Hartley No. 199 ...................................................September 30, 1911
Grice, Thomas, South Pasadena No. 367................................................ .June 24, 1908
Grisham, Ethan Allen, Hesperian No. 264...............................................0ctober 21. 191 I
Gruss. Alfred William, California No. L. ..............................................December 5, 1911
Guptill, Charles Baxter, Golden Gate No. 30..........................................April 23, 1912
Hall, Sr., Paul Rutledge, East Gate No. 290........................................... July 22, 191 I
Hall, Ross Emerson, Long Beach No. 327.............................................. .April 20, 191 l
Haller, William Gustave, Golden State No. 358 .....................................January 25, 1912
Hamilton, Aymer Jay, Berkeley No. 363..................................................February 24, 1910
Hamilton, Frank Irving, Moneta No. 405................................................December 14, 1911
H amilton, William Du.ff, Apollo No. 396.................................................0ctober 17, 1911
Hanby, Levi Garrett, Soquel No. 746 ......................................................April 12, 1912
Hanoa, \.Villiam James. Amity No. 370....................................................July 19, 1912
H ansen, George A rthur, All States No. 593............................................ 1912
Harding. Lewis T homas, Palos Verdes No. 3 9 ..................................... 0ctober 23, 191 l
H arms, H erbert William, Pacific No. 136...............................................March 22, 1912
Harris, Daniel David. Starr King No. 341...............................................0ctober 18, 1911
Harris, James Robb, Sa n Francisco-Victory No. 360............................ March 14, 1912
H arris, Morris. Fidelity No. 120...............................................................April 25, 1912
Harris. Morris, W est Gate No. 335 ..........................................................M ay 18, 191 I
Hatch, Edward Elmer, Wilshire No. 445 ................................................June 28, 191 l
Hatch, Homer Lee. Pentalpha No. 202 ....................................................Aprll 30. 1912
Hauck, Charles Wes!~ . North Butte No. 230........................................September 16, 1911
Hayes, Allen Ernest. Golden State No. 358..........................................._January 25, 1912

NAMB AND LODGE

91
DATE OF RAISING

Hays. Robert, El Centro No. 384 .............................................................. May 12, 1911
Heald, Bert Ulma, Fruitville No. 336....................................................... July 20, 1912
Healey. John, Naval No. 87...................................................................... .May 31, 1912
Heermance. Joseph Garfield. Stanislaus No. 206................................... .April 21. 19J1
HefUnger, Edward Andrew, Corona No. 324.. ........................................September 28 1911
Heidorn, William, John, S anger No. 3 I6 .............................................. -December l 8 '1911
Heiss, Harold Louis, Starr King No. 344.................................................June 12, 19ti
Heller, Hau~ Weaver, Las Palmas No. 366...........................................September 29. 1910
Henderson. lfred Rannie, Kilauea No. 330 ........................................... November 26, 1910
Henry. Charles Burton. Garden Grove No. 586..................................... May 30, 1910
Herbelln, Marcel Nicolas, Westchester No. 703.....................................0 ctober 16, 1911
Hibbard, Duane Albert, Charter Rock No. 410......................................May 25, 1912
Hill. Albert Palmer, Fruitvale No. 336 .................................................... June 29, 1912
Hill, George Vernon. San Diego No. 35 .................................................April 27, 1912
Hiney, William Dodson, Durant No. 268............................................... March 8 1912
Hinz, Albert W., San Benito No. 211... ................................................... March 1: 1912
Hirsh, H a~, Los Angeles No. 42 ............................................................August 26, 1912
Hiserodt, illiam Webb, Hollenbeck No. 31 9......................................March 29, 1912
Hodges, Clarence Augustus, Sa n Benito No. 21 I .................................. May 24, 1912
Holmes, Harrison W .. Eucallfctus No. 243............................................ 0ctober 21. 191 l
Hoops, Jesse B.. Hollywood o. 355........................................................0ctober 18, 1911
Hotchkiss, George Perry, Glendale No. 544 ........................................... February 17, 1911
Howland. George Henry, Parnassus No. 388 ......................................... April 30, 1912
Huber, Frederick Charles, M oneta No. 405 ............................................ February 29, 1912
Hudson, Thomas Henry, Glendale No. 544 ............................._.............Junc 9. 1900
Hulbut, Edwin Ray, Azusa No. 305.........................................................Scptcmber 5, 1911
Hunt, Harold Gilbert, San Jose No. 10.................................................... May 27, 1912
Hunter. Charles Stanley, Southern California No. 278......................... March 27, 1912
Hutton. Alexander Gloag, Kauai No. 589 .............................................. June 10, 1912
Ingram, Arthur Wellington, John Marshall No. 636 ..............................July 11. 1912
Ingram, Park Ray!I\Ond, Laurel No. 245.- .............................................. June 26, 1912
Ingram, Thomas, Carquinez No. 337 ....................................................... 0ctober 10, 1911
ackson, Ward Sutliff, Sequoia No. 319 .................................................. April 30, 1912
acobs, Douglas Ries, Oroville No. 103 .................................. ................April 2, 1912
acobson. Leve Simon, Crescenta Valley No. 652 .................................August 23, 1911
anewaff George Harold. Southern California No. 278 ........................ Novcmber 29, 1911
arvis. ollis Austin, Calexico No. 412 ...................................................December 13, 1911
ohmon, Benjamin H erbert, Live O ak No. 61.. ...................................... November 18, 1910
ohnson, Eric R~nor, Presidio No. 354.................................................. March 28, 1912
ohnson, James artin. E vergreen No. 259 ............................................ 0 ctober 18, 1909
ohnston, Clarence Loran. Berkeley No. 363...........................................September 28, 1911
ones, Cethil, Dunsmuir No 297................ ...............................................D ecembcr 30, 1911
ooes, Hayden French, Las Pal mas No. 366...........................................March 3, 19 J 1
ones, Thomas, Golden Gate No. 30.........................................................}une 18, 1912
cry, Arthur Veryan, Charter Rock No. 410.......................................... August 19, 1911

~· Josehh, Menlo Park No. 651... ....................................................... March 13, 1912
K:DPer, Jo n Antone, San Joaquin No. 19...............................................June 26, 1911
K y, Warren Winfield. Glendale No. 544 ............................................ Junc 23, 1911
Kempkey, Edwin Karl, Brooklyn No. 225....... - ......................................Scptember 26, 1911
Kl!DDedy, Erle Russell, Charity No. 362................................................. AprU 29, 1912
Kermode, Ralph Edward, Apollo No. 396 ...............................................0ctober 3, 1911
M~on George, South P asadena No. 367 ...................................... January 26, 1912
Kttc.er. lvln Esmond. Madison No. 23...................................- ...........March 30, 1912
hwn, William Maitland, South Pasadena No. 367......................... January 2, 1912

ic:J•

92
NAME! AND LODGE!

93

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
DATE! OP RAISING

Kctridge, John C.. Midway No. 426.........................................................March 26, 19 12
Kirsch. Harris Lorley, East Gate No. 290............................................... March 28, 1912
Knight. Charles Chester, San Fernando No. 343 ....................................0ctober 6. 1908
Knox, Reginald Langenbcrg er, Pomona No. 246 ....................................July 26. 1909
Kocher, Edwin Howard, Friendship No. 21 O......................•...........•.......November 23, 1911
Kramer, Herbert John, Semper Virens No. 552 ................. - ................... 0ctober 7, 1911
Kunzler, Norman Orlando, Moneta No. 405..........................................December 14, 191 1
Laeremans. Richard Henry, Concord No. 117........................................ May 28, 1912
La Fortune, Darell, Silver Gate No. 296.........................- ...................... December 13, 1911
Laird, James Ralph, Alturas No. 248........................................................June 19, 1911
Landis, William, Silver Gate No. 296......................................................April 29, 1912
Langlais, Charles Alfred, Berkeley No. 363 ............................................ March 23, 1911
Larson, Harry, Balder No. 393.................................................- ...............April 26, 1912
Laumeister, Leslie William, Porterville No. 303..................................... May 2, 1912
Lauterborn, George, San Bernardino No. 348 .........................................March 30, 1911
Laxton, Ernest, Hamilton No. 751 ..................... ......................................May 20, 1912
Lear, Herbert Sharman, Presidio No. 354 ...............................................August 22, 1912
Le Baron, Clyde L., Vitriuvus No. 145....................................................March 2, 1912
Ledbetter, James Ro_y. Orosi No. 383 ..................... ..................................January 29, 1912
Lee. Henry M., La Canada No. 739......................................................... une 27, 1908
Leffler, Charles Blackburn, Highland Park No. 382 ............................... une 12, 1903
Leffler, William Henry, Lodi No. 256 ...................................................... Tune 13, 1912
Lencioni, Henry, Sotoyome No. 123........................................................May 20, 1911
Lerner, Paul, Calistoga No. 233................................................................September 2, 1911
Lesser, M ilton Joseph, West Gate No. 355 ............................................. March 23, 1910
Levy, Daniel. Dunsmuir No. 297 ..............................................................August 1. 1912
Levy, E yrle Robert, Berkeley No. 363......................................... ............January 25, 1912
Levy, George A., Doric No. 216...............................................................November 16, 1911
Levy, Paul Mark, Palo Alto No. 316.......................................................June 25, 1912
Lewis. John A.. Vacaville No. 134..................... ..................... ................. December 1. 1911
Leyrer, Grorge Edward, Trinity No. 27..................... .............................June 15. 1912
Lingo, William W., Palos Verdes No. 389............................................. April 22, 191 2
Locke, James Neil, Hollenbeck No. 319................................................... Fehruary 20, 1912
Loof, Arthur, Long Beach No. 327 ........................................................... May 23, 1912
Lorenzen, Lewis Norman, Sisson No. 310......................................... ...... December 13, 191 1
Lower, Harry Edward, Alcatraz No. 244................................................June 8, 1912
Lukens. Lert Lamont, Eureka No. 16....................................................... August 3, 1912
Lush, Clarence Edgar, Orange Grove No. 293 .......................................January 30, 1912
Lynch, Walter Norman, Eden No. 113....................................................June 19, 1912
Lyons, George Walter, Eureka No. 16....................................................February 8, 1912
McAllep, Warren Harold, Buena Park No. 357.................... .................0ctober 27, 1910
McCord, Charles Graham, Naval No. 87................................................September 23, 1911
McCormick, Charles Edward, El Centro No. 381..................................February 26, 1907
McCormick, Prank Harris, Acom No. 494..............................................April 26, 1912
McCourt, Robert Lee, West Gate No. 335............................................. March 25, 1912
M cCullough, Cyrus Grant, Altadena No. 678.................... .................... June 16, 1911
McDonald, Charles W .. Alhambra No. 322.................... ........................March 22, 1912
McDonald, Georg_e Henry, Santa Ana No. 241.. ................................... January 12, 1912
McDonald, Roy, Lee, Washin11ton No. 20..............................................June 29, 1911
McDougall, William Thomas, Hawaiian No. 21.. ................................. May 28, 1908
McGimsey, Archie Alederson, Mosaic No. 218 ......................................M arch 22, 1911
Mcintosh, Robert Harry, Damascus No. 648..........................................February 22, 1912
M cKenney, Joseph Wilson, Yucaipa No. 726.................... ..................... 1906
McLaughlin, Robert M., Park Boulevard No. 568................................. May 23, 1911
M cLeod, Duncan Angus, California No. 1.............................................-lanuary 11. 1912
McQuoid. John Treadwell, Sequoia No. 349...........................- .... ___.March 18, 1912
Mc Vicar, James William, Sunset No. 352.............................................. December 26, 1911

NAME! Jl.l';D LODGE!

OJI.TE! OP RAISING

Mace, Fayette, Ione No. 80........................................... :.: ..........................April 27, 1912
Mac Millan. Andrew James, Crescenta V alley No. 6:>2 ........................ February 23, 1911
Macomber, John Kinsley. Delano No. 309 ..................... .................... ......Dcccmber M, 1911
Madsen. Peter Cleveland, Alisa! No. 321 ..................... ........................... December 1, 191 I
Malfanti, Jr.. Joseph, Pacific N o. 136.......................................... ............. November 24, 1911
Mansbach. Arthur Edward, West Gate No. 335 ....................................November 9, 1911
Marcotte, Frederick Louis, Gravel Rang e No. 59.................................. November 4, 1911
Mares, Charles Anthen, Carquinez. No. 337............................................May 26, 1911
Mariani, Walter A.. Speranza ltahana No. 21 9..................................... November 24, 1911
Marshall. Ira Allison, West Lake No. 392 ..............................................November 25, 1911
Marshall, Jr.. William, Crescent No. 45.~..................... ........................... April 20, 1912
Marshall, Warren Gove, Presidio No. 3:>4................ ............................April 28, 1912
Martin, John Henry, Parnassus No. 388 ...............r.······ ........... .............. March 19, 1912
Martinson, Georg_e Moreton, Silver Gate No. 290 .................... ............ March 25, 1912
Mason. Burgess B., Laguna Beach No. 672 ............................................M arch 4, 19 10
Massey, Jr., Horace Andrew, Tehama No. 3.... .................................... April 29, 191 2
Masters, Frank Wakeman, Temescal No. 314 ..................... .................. 0 ctober 19, 1907
Mattson, Irving Byron, Concord No. 117..................... ...........................0ctober 14, 1911
Matson. Myron Berryman, Amador No. 65 ............................................0ctober 24, 1911
Mauk, Edward William, Sunnyside N o. 577 ..........................................May 13, 1912
Maxwell. Arthur Byron, Arcadia No. 547..................... ..........................19 11
Maxwell. Ralph Earl. Pacific Grove No. 331... .......... ........................... May 11. 1912
Maynard, Ralph Samuel. Larchmont No. 614 ........................................Decemhcr 21. 1911
Melchior, Henry, Amity No. 370..............................................................December 8, 1911
Merrick. Orland Briggs, Athens No. 228 ................................................ April 30, 1912
Metcalf, Arthur Gladstone, Hollywood No. 355 .............................. .... October 20, 1911
Meyer, Albert Martin. Fraternity No. 399................... ..........................April 22, 1912
Michell, Clifton Wesley. M adison No. 23..................... ..................... .....September 19, 1911
Miller, Charles Rubins, Pentalpha No. 202 ............................................. September 12, 1911
Miller, George Albert, Magnolia No. 242 ................................................Pebruary 21, 1912
Miller, Orin A.. Elmhurst No. 6 10........................................................... .March 6, 1912
Miller, Jr., Peter, Carq11inez No. 337..................... ................................... 0ctober 7, 1911
Mills Willard Cooke, Live Oak No. 61... .......................................... ..... Fcbruary 24, 1911
Miln~. Frank Lawson, Washington No. 20 ............................... .............May 25..' 1911
Mitchell, AUen F., Upland No. 119..................... ..................................... April 2,, 1911
Mitchell, Grover C., Upland No. 4 19...................... .... .............................April 25, 1911
Mitchell. P. Albert, Hollywood No. 355 ..................................................June 25, 1910
Mizony, Paul Theophile, South West No. 283.................... ...................March 21. 1911
Mock, D. C., Redlands No. 300................................................................March 10, 1911
Moore, William Thomas, Pacific Grove No. 33 !.. .................................November 16, 1911
Muller, Frederick William, Blackmer No. 142..................... ...................September 19, 1911
Muller, Otto Bernhard, Occidental No. 22..............................................February 26, 1912
Munro, Alexander Duncan, Golden Gate No. 30.................... ............... June 30, 1911
Myhre, Arthur Halfdan, H awaiian No. 21... ..........................................May 23, 1912
Naramore, Ralph Edward, Penrhyn No. 258 .......- .................................June 27, 1912
Nash, Jr., William Francis, U nity No. 368 .............................................April 30, 1912
Nathan, Paul. Pacific No. 136 ......................................... ..........................January 16, 1912
Neal, Harvey Samuel, Mt. Davidson No. 481.. ......................................June 21, 1911
Nelson, Adolph Leonard, Marin No. 191 ....................................... - ....... September 26, 1911
Nelson, John Francis Oscar, Eagle Rock No. 422 ..................................May 15, 1900
Newman, Adelbert James, All States No. 593 ........................................ July 19, 1912
Nielsen, Oswald Sofus Cristzan. West Lake No. 392 ............................June 26, 1912
Nunn, Samuel Johnson, Eagle Rock No. 422..........................................November 14, 1908
Oakley, Louis Leverich, Moneta No. 405................................................July 18, 1912
Oblath, lzso, Fresno No. 247......................................... ................- .........March 1. 1912
Oldendorph , Arnold John, Alhambra No. 322 .......................................August 29, 1911
Olney, Charles Clyde, Alpha No. 431.. ................................................... March 23, 1912
Oram, John Hewell, San Juan No. 732 ....................................................February 28, 1912
Osbun. Albert E., Holtville No. 425........................._............_............ ....March 2, 1912

94

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

95

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE OF RAISING

O strom. Harv; Mapes. Sunset No. 352 ................................................... May 18, 19 12
Otto, Fred\ illington, Las Palmas No. 366 ......................... ..................March 17, 1911
Outsen, Arthur Charles, Occidental No. 22 ............................................ August 26, 1912
Pace, John Cowden. Calexico No. 412 .....................................................M ay 22, 19 12
Parlett, John. San Mateo No. 226 __________________,,___ .................................... .October 24. 1911
Patten, Clarence Otto, Forest Hill No. 531........ ...................................March 22. 19 12
Patten, Jarvis Roy, Honolulu No. 409................ __ .............................M ay 7, 1912
Peck, Joseph Howard, Eureka No. 16.................................................... November 11. 1911
Pedgrift, E dward David, Golden S tate No. 35 ...................................D ecember 27. 1911
Persson. Clarence Edwin, Turlock No. 395 ............................................ April 27, 1911
Petersen. Peter J.. Valley No. 135.................... .. ..................................... -~une 21. 19 12
~~~/ffer, Henry James. Los Banos No. 312 ................... .. ....... ............... anuary 15, 1962
1 pott, Bert Roy, Santa Rosa No. 57.................................................... anuary 24, 1912
Pickford, Rollin Alphonso, Las Palmas No. 3'iG.................... ................. !?{:ember 29, 1910
Piepenbrink, Carl Ernest. San Diego No. 35........................................ June 15, 1912
Pierce, Howard Haynes. Brooklyn No. 255 .........................................October 12, 1897
Pierce, Leroy Burt, Roseville No. 222 ............... .................................. May 11. 1912
Platt, Royall Tyler, San Clemente No. 671... .........................................April 7, 191 1
Plumm.er. VJallace Bruce, Burlingame No. 400...................................... September 23, 1911
Polaski, Arthur, W est Gate No. 335....................................................... .April 20, 1911
Pope. Demas Allen, Lodi No. 256........................ ... ............................ September 7, 1911
Porter, Chestrr Orl ando, Dunsmuir No. 297 ........ ................................August 21, 1912
Porter, Stephen Jero me. Mission No. 169................................................ September 18, 19 11
Potter, Bernard Adelbert, Moneta No. 105............................................. M ay 16, 1912
Potter. Elmer Claudius, West L.1ke No. 392 ..........................................March 27, 1912
Powell, lames Clinton, Elk Grove No. 173..... . .................................... June 21, 1911
Power, ukc, Alcatraz No. 241 ............................................................... September 6, 1911
Pozzo. Emile A .. West Gate No. 335 .................... ................................ February 29. 1912
Prestidge, George Roy, Visalia No. 128............... .. ...........................November 21. 1911
Prittie. Frank Halford. Tehama No. 3................. .................................. June 17, 19 12
Purser, Sal Calhoun, \Vest Gate No. 335...............................................June 29. 191 1
Raahange. Jacob F .. Bay View No. 401... ............ .......... ...................... January 18, 1912
Rafter, Charles Christopher, Mount Diablo N o. i -!8 ... .. ... ................... January 17. 1911
Rappaport, Harry H .. West Gate No. 335.............................................April 25, 1912
Rasco, Ferron Scott, Crescenta V all ey No. 652 ..... . ............................ October 16, 1911
Ratcli !Te, Emory, Center No. 465........................................................... Janua ry 19, 1912
Rediker, H arry Ferdinand, John P. Jarman No. 669 .............................. June 20, 1912
Reed, Ray Leslie, Paul Revere No. 162............... ................................... April 26, 1912
Reif. Frederick William. San D iego No. 35 .............. ............................. June 8. 1912
Reyman. Harold Cleveland, Lincoln No. 470 ..... ...................................M arc.h 21. 1912
Reynolds. Frank Walton, Claiborne No. 185 .... .................................. June 25. 1911
Ribley. Clyde, McKinle~ No. 347 ........................................................._December 21. 1911
R1egels, Max Andreas, den No. 11 3................................................... April 18, 1910
Rieser, Charles Albert, Yerba Buena No. 403 .........................................June 20, 1912
Riggins, Clarence Nye. Yount No. 12 ......................................................April 27, 1912
Riley. William Earl. Chula Vista No. 626.............................................. M ay 28, 1912
Ringo, George David, Hesperian No. 264 ...............................................0ctober 7, 1911
Robey, Floyd Franklin, Palestine No. 351...............................................September 25, 1911
Robinson, Stephan Boutwell. Eureka No. 16 ..........................................July 30. 1912
Robinson. Thomas. Santa Monica No. 307............................................. July 12, 1912
Robinson, William Joseph. Los Angeles No. 12..................................... August 28, 1911
Rockstroh, Frederick P .. Russian River No. 18 1....................................March 23, 1912
Rockwell. Allen Baer, South G ate No. 320............................................. December 9, 1911
Roderick, Harry Leslie Lysle. Chateau Thierry No. 569.......................June 18, 1912
Rogers. Harold Freeland, Chatcau Thier;,y No. 569 ..............................March 10, 1911
Roix. Raymond Jam es. Santa Rosa No. 5 ............................................. .December 18. 1911
Roland, Eugene Wellington, Sequoia No. 349....................................... Ma rch 26, 1912
Rosenberger, Arthur C .. Morning Star No. 68 .... _.......................______ July 2, 1912

NAME AN D LODGE

DATE OF RAISING

Rounsavelle, Lafayette Small, So u ther~n California No. 278 .......... ....... November 22, 1911
Rowe. James Roh. Oak Grove No. 2b ........................... ... .................. May 16, 19 12
Rowe. Walter P ilip. Oak Grove No. 215 .............. .. .. .... .. .. ...............Aug ust 31, 19 11
Roy, David Golden, John P. Jarman No. 669 ............. . ... ...... ................. .March 28, 1912
Royster. Joseph Allen, Benicia No. 5....................................................... May I. 1912
Rudee, Henry Elkan, Fidelity No. 120.................................................... ./\ugust 31. 1912
Rudolph, William Fred. Van Nuys No. 450 ............ ....................... July I. 1911
Ruediger, Julius, Live Oak No. 61... ..................................................... March 31 1911
Rush. Guy MansBeld, West Lake No. 392.......................................... June I. 19°12
Rush. William Henry, Crockett No. 139 .............................................. N ovcmbe.r 29 1911
Russell, George 'Washington, East Gutc No. 290................................. July 26, 1912'
Sanford. Frank Warren, San Fran cisco-V ictory No. 360............ ... ......September 26 19 11
Satterla. S r.. Albert G .. G reenlea f No. 670 ..................... .......................Se ptember 6 '1911
Sawyer. Edmund Ogden. H ol lywood No. 355 ...................... ................ September 5'. 1901
Schaad, Le'W. Tuscan _No. 26.1... ............................................................ .November 16, 19 11
alter Alois, O ccidental No. 22........... ..............................November 27 1911
Scheffauer.
Schendel. Paul Robert, Mission No. 169.................. ... ..... ............. .May 16, 19Ji
Schiefer, C arl William, Henry Knox No. 662.............. . .. .. ............ Aug ust 24, 1909
Schroeer, Edward Oscar, San Pasqual No. 452..................................... Junl' 25, 1912
Schulz, Kurt William, Morgan H ill No. 163.......................................... .0ctober 27 1911
Schumacher, Harry Benjamin, Fillmore No. 379........ .. .. ......... .............. February 7'. 1912
.. ...... June 24, 1912
Schweitzer, Edward. Tehama No. 3................................ .. .
Scott, Winfield Allan, A ttascadero No. 193................. ... ................... .June 21, 1910
Searle•. Chas. C., Phoenix No. 178 .............................. ::·····-······· .. ............. February 22. 1912
Seba.st1an, Howard Campbell. Pa rk Boulevard No. ) C .......................April 5, 1911
Seibel. Charles. Peta lEma No. 180................................ ......................... March 6, 1912
Seibert. Lee Charles, 1 Centro No. 384.. ....................... ..................... April 29, 1912
Sethman. Charles Joseph, King David's No. 209 .................. ............September 28, 1911
Shade. Simon Luther. Naval No. 87....................................................... September 11, 1911
Shapero. Joseph, Doric No. 216................................................................June 23, 1911
Shelton. l ames Everett, Larchmont No. 6 14 ..................... ... ................March 25. 1912
Shle.lds. amucl Albert, Tehachapi No. 313............... ................ ........ April 25, 19 11
Shirley, Herman Vincent, San Dieguito No. 775 ................................... August 5. 1911
Shobert, Fred. T ehachapi No. 3 13 ........................................................... St>pternber 14, 19 11
Shockley, Albert Shurey, A ll S tates No. 593 .......................................... February 20. 1912
Shodahl, August Oscar, Le Progres de I' Oceanic No. 37 1..... .............April 18. 19 J 2
Shoemaker, Godfrey A .. Park Boulevard No. 568........ ... ................. August 14, 1903
Shoemaker, Jesse Ralph, Claremont No. 436.......................................... January 30 1912
Siebert. Lester, Fidelity No. 120................................... ........................ ..June 29, l9l 1
Stem, Cornel!us, Golden Gate No. 30.................................................... May 9, 19 11
~=s. i;:ancis Otto. King Solomon's No. 260...................... ......... August 12, 1912
er, alph Leslie, Sacramento No. 40 .................. .... ... . ........... . July 12 191 2
t!th, Claude T ., Calaveras No. 78 ............................... ........... ........... ::.December 9, 191 J
S th, E lmer Germain, Apollo No. 396................................................... A_pril 30, 1912
mith, Harry Camden, Berkeley No. 363.............................................. November 24, 1911
George Al fred, William Rhodes H ervey N o. 767 ..................... .June 21, 1909
S
S th, Glenn Horvey, M izpah No. 378 ................................. .. .............. May 15, 1911
mlth, Leo D .. Parnassus No. 388............................................................ 0ctober 19, 1911
Snodgress. Dell Owen, Long Beach No. 327 ........................................ _0ctober 4, 1911
~Max Marcus. King Solomon's No. 260........................................ May 20, 1912
an, Valentine, Doric No. 216 .......................................................... June 15, 1911
S
~win H .. Phoenix N o. 178 ......................................................... May 31. 1912
Sorre • Emil, Golden Gate No. 30.............................. ..........................January 23, 1912
Sp lls, Earl, Mizpah No. 378 ............................................................. .... 0ctober 23, 1911
~·John C .. Corona No. 324 ............................................................. May 23. 1912
•Archibald, E l Segundo No. 507 ................................................... March 23, 1911
S
~cer, John. Ontario No. 301............................................................... August 28 19 11
&pna, Philip Carl, Bay View No. 401... .................................................. April 18, t'912
ggs. Benjamin Franklin. Azusa N o. 305 ........................................... July 22, 1911

s:!th,

96
NAME AND LODGE

97

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OP RAISING

Springer, Wallace, Whittier No. 323 ................ -------·-·······················-····March 24, 1911
Squires, Harry Edwin, Park Boulevard No. 568....·-·····-········- ············Novernber 18, 1907
Stallings. Resco, Fresno No. 247..·-··························- ····························-August 6, 1909
Stanfield. Henry Milton, Montebello No. 451... ............................- ....... August 3, 1911
Stannard, Albert Clinton, Parnassus No. 388 ......................................... October 31. 1911
Steinberger. James Milton, Sierra Madre No, 408.................................June 13. 1911
Stengel, Edmund Bernard, Fremont No. 497 ...................................- ......November 29, 191 t
Stephens, Archel Rutherford, Tehama No. 3.......................................... 0ctdber 30. 1911
Stephens, George William, Yount No. 12................................... - ..........August 8, 1908
Stewart, Bruce Spencer, Buena Park No. 357........................................ April 28. 1910
Stewnrt, Charles, San Juan No. 732.... ·-··············································-··August 24, 1912
Stewart, William, Needles No. 326.......................................................... Se-ptember 18, 191!
Stohl, Gustav Walfred. Balder No. 393.....- ........................................_.August 30, 1912
Stohl, Nels Steven, Balder No. 393·-··-···················································0ctober 27, 1911
Stone, Clarence Draper, Educator No. 554............................................ December 7, 1910
Stottlemeyer, Emera! Hanford, Vacaville No. 134.................................January 15, 1912
Strickland. Chester George, Carmel No. 680.........................................July 22, 1911
Stroud, Henry Campbell. Los Banos No. 312 .........................................November 20, 1911
Supler, Charles Harison, H ollenbeck No. 319 ........................................April 26, 1912
Supler, Robert W allace, Hollenbeck No. 319 .........................................April 26. 1912
Sutherland. Albert William, Lindsay No. 416........................................ January 16. 1912
Swegles, Omar J., Laguna Beach No. 672............................................... December I. 1910
Taylor, Paul Samuel. Golden State No. 358.......................................... .December 11. 1911
T aylor, William Henry. Naval No. 87 ....................................................April 11. 1912
T ellefson. Michael. Culver City No. 467 .................................................February 2. 1912
Tclson. Frank Callson, Silver Gate No. 296........................................... Mnrch 11. 1912
Templeton. Clifford Arthur, Berkeley No. 363 ....................................... June 22, 1909
Thatcher, Hobart Marshall, Sunset No. 352 ........................................... December 16, 1911
Tholen, Emil Francis, Wilshire No. 445 ................................................. Decemher 8, 1908
Thompson. Walter Simeon, Naval No. 87..............................................November 27, 1905
Thomson. John Robertson , Temple City No. 612 .................................. .0ctober 21, 1911
Throp, G eorge Spafford, Naval No. 87.................................................. November 16. 1911
Tieck. August B .. Bakersfi eld No. 224.................................................... October 25. 1911
Tienken. Albert C .. Lindsay No. 416....................................................... June 25, 1912
Tobin, James Anthony, Sncramento No. 4-0 ............................................ June 29, 1912
Toft, Chris Peter. Golden Gate No. 30.....- ............................................. June 30, 1911
Tomlinson, G eorge, Brooklyn No. 225 .................................................... Septembcr 29, 1911
Trautman, Paul Stephen, East Gate No. 290 .......................................... February 6, 1912
Trott, Emmett Dee. S anta Ynez Valley No. 701.................................... May 25. 1912
Tubbs, Perley Clifton, Palestine No. 351........................................... - ..-November 20, 1911
Tucker, Arthur John. Charter Rock No. 410 .........................................July 22. 1912
Tungate, Mnrk Twain, Southern California No. 278 ............................ M ay 17. 1911
Turner, William Edward, Berkeley No. 363 .......................................... .March 14, 1912
Turon, Leon, Vallee de France No. 329................................................. _November 15, 1911
Tuthill. Ralph Ford, Hesperian No. 264 ..................................................February 25, 1912
Ubbe, Ludvig, Presidio No. 35·L.................... - .......................................June 29, 1911
Van Dyke. Benjamin Franklin, Sacramento No. 40.............................. .April 5, 1912
Van Horn, Marion, El Dorado No. 26.................................................... Novemher 30, 1911
Varey, Gllbert Oarence, Brooklyn No. 225 ............................................September 22. 1911
Vignolo. Albert. West Gate No. 335.......................................................May 4. 1911

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

WachteldW illiam J:ienry, Whittier No. 323.........................- ...............April 23, 1912
Wabl, E wardE Union No. 58.......................... ···············-················- --June 18, 1910
Waite, Harr_y dgar, San Fernando No. 313......................................... August 12, 1911
Wakefi el~, ~heste r t-enncth, Las Palmas No. 366...................- ............April 11. 1912
Wakefor . rnest. anta Paula No. 291.. ....................................... - ......February 20, 1912
Walker, Blaine. South Gate No. 320.............................................. ·-····-·February 24, 191 2
Waltmire, John Gilbert, Greenleaf No. 670.............................................August 24. 1911
Warner, Glenn Boyer, Live Oak No. 61.........................................- ...... June 17, 1910
Warner, Norman Charles, Tehama No. 3..···············-··················-·······.July 10, 1911
Warren. C. Maveo. Glendora No. 404....................................................August 17, 1911
Waser, Charles Raymond, La Fayette No. 126......................................September 26, 1911
Watkins, Chester Arthur, Evergreen No. 259 ............................. _......... Septemher 15 1911
Watkins. Hiram Heywood, Redlands No. 300....................................... February 19i 1
Watson, William Arthur, La Puente No. 446............................. - ..........February' 21 1911
Way, Arthur William, Humboldt No. 79 ............................................... .March 3, 1903
Weatherby, Albert Skiffington, Woodland No. 156.......................- ..... March 14 1905
Webber, Lewis Henry, Atascadero No. 493 ........................................... Septembe~ 15, 1911
Webster, Thornton-Delos. Willow Glen No. 676..................................November 11. 1911
Weisenborn. Alfred. Glendale No. 544.............................- .....................May 25, 1912
W eiss. Harry M., Doric No. 216 ..............................................................May 26, 1910
Welday, Chester Arthur, Lynwood No. 600...........................................February 18, 1911
Wendell. Charley Clyde, Dunsmuir No. 297.......................................... May 2, 1912
Wessman. Clnre Leslie. Crescenta Valley No. 652 ...........- ...................Marcb 14, 1912
Wheeler. Clayton Jay, Hollenbeck No. 319............................................March 19. 1912
Whitbeck. Horace Marcus. Tehama No. 3............................................. May 27, 1912
White, Clyde Norman, Crocker No. 454 ...................................- ...........April 19, 1912
Whiteley, Bert Cory. Naval No. 87............. - ................................- ........Apr!l ll, 1912
Wickersham, Samuel Leighton, Ontario No. 301...................................May 8, 1912
Wicks. Mark, Wilmington No. 198..............................._........................ September 8, 191 l
Wiese, Alva Premo Carlo, Mizpah No. 378........................................... February 26 1912
Wilbur, Francis L., Ja nesville No. 232 ..........._.......................................March 2, 19]2
Wild. Morris McKendry, Carmel No. 680..............................................September 26. 1911
Wiles. Frank Lawson. Naval No. 87.......................................................August 1. 1912
Willard, Archie Edwin, Fruitvnle No. 336............................................. .September 30, 1911
Willlams, John P., San Joaquin No. 19................................................... April 24, 1911
Williams, Robert F rederic, Acnlanes No. 723........................................ 0ctober 27. 191 1
Williams. Thomas J., Willow Glen No. 676 ........................................... March 9, 1912
Wilson, Donald W estley. Benicia No. 5.................................................September 20, 1911
Wood. George S., Inyo No. 221 ........................................... - ................. August 5. 1911
Woodruff. Isaac O gden, Molino No. 150................................................November 4, 1911
Woods, Melford Allen, Yucaipa No. 726............................................... .May 20, 191 1
Worsley, Everett John, Tuscan No. 261........... - .....................................March 18, 1912
~ray, Da niel D .• San Diego No. 35 .......................................................December 9, 1911
Wright, Charles E., Lakewood No. 728..................................................April 8, 1912
yckoff, William Henry, Jubilee No. 604..........................................._.0ctober 24, 191 1
Young, Roy Conway. Olive Branch N o. 269....................................._..November 11. 1911
~oules, Arthur John, Molino No. 150.............- ································-·····March 2, 1912
~oung , Adolph. Petaluma No. 180.................-........................................June 20, 1912
young, Thomas Earl, Calexico No. 412 .........................- .......................November 15, 1911
young, William Hayes, Crocker No. 454......................- ......................September 26. 1902
utzy, Edgar Lee, Bay View No. 401.............- ··-- ··············-···············.April 19, 1911
rick, Walter Ernest, Stockton No. 4-98 ....·-····------····-··-··············0ctober 25. 1911
z:mennan, George Adam, Golden Gate No. 30....·--··-······-----······-··February 21, 1911
k, Edgar T.homson, Marin No. 191.....--····-··············--····-·············0ctober 25, 1911

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CoNCLUSION

This report would not be complete without making special reference to the splendid cooperation of every member of the Staff. With
the retirement on June 30. 1962, of Assistant Grand Secretary Henry
D. Oliphant there was left a genuine void. It has been a real pleasure
to experience that confident feeling that each staff member seemed to
have that it was his. or her. special responsibility to see that procedures
continued efficiently and effectively. Each has given that extra something to make it work that way.
The staff joins his legion of friends fa wishing Brother Henry a
long and pleasant retirement. For his successor. Brother Verne Hendrix,
we solicit the same warm. friendly cooperation to which the Office of
Assistant Grand Secretary is so accustomed.

EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

Referred to Committee on Distribution.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The report this year must concern itself chiefly with the program of
expanded candi?ate instruction now about to be launched. This program
Is designed ~o impart to the advancing candidate knowledge relating
not only to his degrees but to the Masonic world around him.
To permit a fuller exposition of this problem and our hoped-for
solution, the report will only briefly touch on the other activities 0 £ the
Ritual Committee.
Six meetings of the Ritual Committee were held during the year,
including a full school for the Assistant Grand Lecturers, again held in
Pasadena. Other meetings coincided with Divisional Conferences as
follows:
Division VI
San Pedro Temple
March 16-1 8
Division v
Hesperian Temple
April 13-15
Division III
Santa Rosa Temple
May 4-6
Division IV
Pohona Temple
June 1-3
Divisions I & II
La ke Tahoe Temple
June 15-17
Conference schools were in each case under the direction of the
Assistant Grand Lecturer of the Division. Work in most schools was
excellent and I must particularly commend the Inspectors of Divisions I
6 II. as well as their A ssistant Grand Lecturers. for the almost flawless
exemplification o~ the work. The change over the years in these two
divisions is remarkable and their pride in the work shows knowledge
and appreciation of the lessons of Masonry.
The Inspectors and Officers Coaches of our Hawaiian Lodges received special schooling from Assistant Grand Lecturer Arthur J. Kahn,
who made the trip to Hawaii on behalf of the Grand Lecturer. Continued improvement is noted in his report of the work of the Lodges of
these districts.
Se.ction 156 C~C (1st) requires the Grand Lecturer "to supervise
and direct the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the Inspectors in the performance of their duties.... ".
Section 161 CM C requires the Inspectors (2nd) "to require any
Master of a Lodge in his District to convene his Lodge for lnspection(9th) to report the working condition of each Lodge in his District to
the Grand Lecturer on or before the first day of July of each year.( 10th) to examine the books and records of each Lodge to determine if
its manner of transacting its business conforms to our laws, and to report to the Grand Master any violation of law.
In the performance of his duties he shall be the Representative of
Grand Lodge in his District. ...".

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our law, while delegating much power and responsibility to the
Inspector, specifically recognizes that wit hin the Lodg~ the M~ster is
the one person empowered to discharge all the executive functions of
the Lodge ( CMC 482). All other Lodge officers are under his direct
superintendence.
. . ..
This particularly applies to the Lodge Secretary whose duty 1t is to
obey the will and pleasure of the Worshipful Master".
.
This clearly points up the impracticality of an Inspector actmg also
as Lodge Secretary. E ach of these positions is one of hono~ and ~is­
tinction. Combined in the person of one man, we have the 1mposs1ble
situation of one man serving both as servant and master, as the auditor
and the audited, as the captain and the quartermaster.
I have, therefore, taken the stand that, except in emergency, and
then only for a limited time, no Inspector shall continue to function as
a Lodge Secretary. Without in any sense subordinating the ~mp~rtance
of service in either field, I do not believe that the dual capacity 1s compatible with good order and discipline.

Our answer is this-that each Lodge contains within itself the manpawer, the dedication and the interest for the task. The candidate's
coaching staff meets the challenge. In the Lodge with many candidates,
the staff is large. With few, it may consist only of one or two men but
we believe that here, with proper direction. lies our solution.
In the Insta lla tion ·service. primary responsibility for education is
vested in the Master. To him the Installing Officer says. " It is your
province to spread and communicate light and instruction to the brethren
of your Lodge". The Wardens, too, are instructed, "You are assiduously to assist the Master in the discharge of his trust, diffusing light
and imparting knowledge to all whom he shall place under your care".
It is, therefore, the plan of the Grand Lecturer to place responsibility
within the Lodge in the person of the Senior Warden who shall, under
the direction of the Master. carry out the Candidate's instr uction.
This is to be accomplished by schooling coaches in Masonic matters
through the use of the Candidates Coaches Handbook, through Lodge
or District Coaches schools, and forums utilizing, additionally, the Proceedings, California Masonic Code. the Masters H andbook and other
official material.
We propose that candidates' coaches be presented, after properly
qualifying . with a certificate of recognition , as well as a copy of the
Candidates Coaches Handbook.
The C andidates Coaches Handbook is to become available to Lodges
at cost. I t is the result of many months of study and research on the
part of many interested men. I would be derelict if appreciation were
not voiced to the many who have read proof and constructively criticized
the makeup of the articles . Particular mention must be made of the use
of articles from Northern California Research Lodge as background
material.
For the Candidate, we propose a revision of the present introductory
booklet into an expanded work to be entitled, "Information for C andidates." This booklet will contain a personal letter to be signed by the
Master, welcoming the Candidate to our door. We also propose the
division of the Monitor by Degrees and the use of it after each degree
by the Candidate and his coach in that degree.
Instructions to Lodges and to Inspectors will accompany the initial
supply of C andidates Coaches Handbooks. Orders for your present
coaching staff should be made to the supply room.
With the tools here given, we believe that the Masters, Wardens
and Coaches of our Lodges will produce, over the years, a better informed a nd more eagerly interested membership.
Respectfully submitted,

100

CANDIDATE EDUCATION

I turn now to the matter which has occupied the interest of your
Grand Lecturer for the past two years. Delays caused by circumstances
beyond my control have now been overcome and I can report to you
on a beginning at last completed.
I call it a beginning because no plan of action should be so static
that change cannot occur in it. Our truths are unchangeable but our
means of implementing them must grow with the times. I therefore ask
you to accept this as such a beginning.
The question which comes first to mind may well be, " What are we
trying to do in Candidate education?" Masters have been troubled by
the inability to relate Masonry's age-old ritual to the facts of presentday fraternal life. Men coming into our Lodges are often lost again
after a few weeks or months because they do not understand Masonry
as a present-day force in the world.
It is our job to save these men for Masonry, for Masonry's great
task of brotherhood, for Masonry's challenge of charity in a world where
the state is usurping our duties to the orphan, the widow. the aged and
the distressed. Understanding must begin with understanding ourselves,
our institution and our place in the divine plan.
We are geographically too widely scattered for visiting lectures
by our more informed brethren. In our present seminars, valuable as
they are, we touch only a relative few. We need then to touch each candidate as he comes in. We need to meet him with an informed instructor
and guide who can impart to that candidate some of his own zeal for
Masonry and his knowledge of it.
Where then do we get our faculty for this educational endeavor?

D ONALD G. CAMPBELL,

Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

101

102

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Trustees o f the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Seventieth Annual Report for the year ending June 30. 1962. together
with Reports from the Superintendent of our H ome for the Aged in
Union City (formerly Decato) and from the Superintendent of our
H ome for Children in Covina.
ORGANIZATION

The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco on September 29. 1961,
for the purpose of organization. The election of Ira W. C oburn, Deputy
Grand Master, Elmer W. Heald, Senior Grand Warden and Theodore
Meriam, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the Board and
on motion duly made, seconded and carried they were elected members
o f the Board.
On motion duly made. seconded and carried Edgar V. Stewart, Jr..
was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried L. Harold Anderson
was elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge, F.&A. M.
of California. Past Grand Master Arthur M. W arren is Treasurer of
M asonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge. F. & A. M.
of Ca lifornia, Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems is Secretary of
Masonic Homes of California.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master. Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens. the following Trustees compose the Board.
The date of the termination of their three year appointments is also
shown.
Jam es Leo Halley..........................1962 .............................. Phil N. Myers
George D. Gavin ..........................1963 .................. .... Edward J. Blickfeldt
L. Harold Anderson ......................1964 ... .................Edgar V. Stewart. Jr.
Charles M. Wollenberg, Trustee Emeritus
GENERAL REVIF.W

Again it is our pleasure to pay homage to the Superintendents of our
two M asonic Homes, our oldsters' home in Union City and our youngsters' home in Covina.
Worshipful Gail H. David's report on the activities of the senior
citizens at Union City is appended to this report and will indicate a
number of new activities that our guests are now enjoying under his
supervision. His job of continually trying to please some 380 of our older

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNIA

103

brethren and their ladies is not an easy one, and his devotion to his task
bey'ond the normal call of duty deserves honorable mention.
Worshipful Robert M. Henry's report on the youngsters' activities
is also appended and affords inspirational reading especially to those
acquainted with the demands of young people today. We are particularly
fortunate to have had for the past fourteen years this man and his wife
to superintend this activity as they are young enough to understand a nd
be real parents to their wards. and at the same time well trained to exercise mature judgment in the many problems with which they have to

deal.
The report of the Necrology Committee, to be g~ven later in this
session. will record the passing o f two of our mu ch beloved Past Grand
Masters who were long active in the affairs o f the Masonic Homes.
On November 2, 1961. while the Northern members of the Board
were in session, word was received of the sudden passing of Most
Worshipful Lloyd E. Wilson, who until his recent retirement served as
Secretary of the Homes Board. The Board adjourned in his memory and
have since spread upon their minutes a resolution memorializing this
Brother who served us so long and so well.
On May 1, 1962, we were notified of the unfortunate pas-sing of
Most Worshipful Charles Albert Adams as a result of an accident.
Brother Adams. one of the "two Charlies" so much beloved by all the
brethren in California, was for forty-two years a member of the Masonic
Homes Board aRd since his statutory retirement had sat with the
Trustees as an Emeritus member. An appropriate resolution was sent to
his family in remembrance of this ninety-fou r year old young man whose
name had been synonomous with the H omes Board for nearly a half
century.
Several times during the past year Lodges have presented applications for admission to the Homes , particularly to Union City, and a fterward have admitted that a more thorough investigation on their part
might have disclosed the ineligibility of the applicant. In a number of
instances the applications were then withdrawn. When we send our
Social W orker out to investigate an application which a Lodge has
presented. it oftentimes involves considerable expense which could be
saved by a more thoughtful approach on the part of the Lodge. We urge
the Lodges, therefore, to give due consideration to all requests for admission.
When there is a definite need which cannot be met by admission to
either home, our program of assistance which we call Outside Relief is
available, and we handle many such cases each year. They require the
same careful scrutiny on the Lodges' part before presenting the formal
applkation.

l(}i

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.
CHILDREN's HoME AT COVINA

Whereas our report to you of June 30, 1961, indicated a total population in our Children's Home of thirty-eight (an all time low), our Superintendent's report as of the same date this year shows a total of forty.
nine, with twenty-three youngsters admitted during this fiscal year, one
of the most active periods in recent years.
His report will also show the continuing programs being carried out
by and for the children, with honors coming to the Home from many
quarters through their activities.
Four of our young men from the Home graduating from high school
have been awarded scholarship assistance for college by the Board of
Trustees as their scholastic records merited this consideration.
You will be interested to know that our increase in population in
the Covina Home was in no way due to the broadening of the rules
of admission permitted by action of the Grand Lodge in 1961. All
of our new admi·ssions to this date have qualified under our old long
standing requirements. As this report is being prepared, _howe~er, we
do have two cases under advisement, either or both of which might result in our first admissions under the new legislation.
Our continually rising per capita costs give your Board of Trustees
great concern. If cost is the sole concern, the Board will be the first to
admit that the Home can be operated on a less expensive scale. We can
eliminate some of the fine features which over many years have made our
Home one of the outstanding Masonic Homes of the country. But we,
the Trustees, honestly believe that that is not what you would have
us do. By this we do not mean that we are not watching every expenditure and exercising every prudent economy; bu~ ~e refuse.. ~nless
ordered by you to do so, to curtail the many opportumties and privileges
which add so much, not only to the pleasure, but to the broadening
experiences of these young people whose guidance to normal adulthood
has been given into our hands. We feel this is a sacred trust.
We are not unmindful of the fact that the trend in this field of social
service is toward the placing of wards in foster homes, and we receive letters from some of you occasionally suggesting this approach as
a matter of economy. We are definitely of the opinion, however, a~ter
careful consideration that we would be violating our trust by adopting
any such program.
Our Endowment Fund which is so generously augmented each year
by you, through the excellent offices of the M~sonic H_omes End?w~ent
Board, is also the recipient of many substantial legacies, o~ten m~p1red
by our Children's Home. Generous bequests also are re~e1ved, directly
by the Homes Board, earmarked in many case's for the Children s Home.
We are confident that we are keeping faith with these many donors by
the continuation of the type of personal care we are presently providing
for our youngsters.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

105

Our report to you of last year indicated that sooner or later a new
ite
for this activity must be found. Our ptant is obsolete and impossible
5
f modernization. Our location is an island -in one of the fastest develop?ng urban areas in the south. We feel definitdy that a new site should
~n be acquired as rural acreage within a reasonable distance of the
cultural advantages of the cities is becoming scarce indeed, and 4s
already high priced.
We are about to authorize a professional survey of our plant and
operations to determine the economic feasibility of changing our location
and replacing the Home with a modern bungalow type which would be
more flexible in its operation and thus effect economies. We hope by next
year we may have such a survey upon which to report.
The powers of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, given them
by the Articles of Incorporation and the By-Laws, include the authority
to "buy, sell, hold, lease, mortgage and deal in and with real and personal
property of all sorts and kinds." Should the opportunity present itself
to acquire a new site for a children's home, however, despite the powers
referred to, we will confer with, and obtain the opinions of the Grand
Master. all other elected Grand Lodge Officers, and the Chairmen of
the Policy and General Purposes and Finance Committees prior to
taking any action. Your acceptance of this report will indicate a re~
affirmation of our authority and your willingness to have us proceed on
this ba·sis should an opportunity arise between Grand Lodge sessions
which would call for prompt action in regard to the acquiring of an
appropriate parcel ?f ground.
MASONIC Ho ME AT UN ION CITY ( DEc OTO)

During the past fiscal year the population at the Decato Home at
Union City has increased to an all~time high of 382. This has caused
a waiting list for men and women, as well as couples, of as many as 18
people at one time. The many applications continuing to come caused
us to commence an expansion program which would accommodate not
only additional residents but also provide proper dormitory facilities for
male employees and couples that are employed by the Home. It was
obvious that these latter facilities for staff members would have to be
constructed first so as to make available the areas needed for a residential facility. Construction began about the fir st of July. It is expected that
these three buildings will be completed by the end of the year.
At the present time, plans are being developed for a new residential
haU which will accommodate 91 people. This will include two-room
apartments for approximately 40 couples which can be converted to
single-person use should the demand require. This building will be
trected where the old hospital building now stands. This new hall will
be dedicated to P.G.M. Charles A lbert Adams who served on the

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes from 1916 to 1958, a period
of 42 years , and who was an emeritus member until his passing_ early
this year at the age of 94 . It seems particularly appropriate that this new
building be known as the Charles Albert Adams Hall.
The Board has taken action to dedicate the new hospital to P.G.M.
Charles M . Wollenberg, who served as a trustee from 1917 to 1959 and
as President of the Board of Trustees from 1919 to 1959, and who is
now our only emeritus member. The Wollenberg plaque is expected to
be in place and dedicated with appropriate, ceremony. o_n Wednesday,
October 10, on the occasion of Grand Lodges annual v1s1t to the Decato
Home.
The dieticians at the Palo Alto Clinic have recently made a survey
of the kitchen and dining areas regarding the preparation and serving of
food and found the arrangements now in effect to be very satisfactory.
During the year many things have been added for the pleasure and
comfort of the residents, such as monthly bus tours, a full-time recreational director, and an occupational therapist, all of which have contributed to the pleasure and contentment of our guests.

affiliates coming from other jurisdictions. This levy was increased to
$25.00 in 1926 but no change has been made in the last 36 years. In 194 7,
when 15.570 candidates and affiliates entered our Grand Lodge
revenue from this source amounted to $389,250. The past year pro:
vided only $181,850 from 7,274 new members , and this figure has been
declining each year.
A $5 .00 increase in this fee would produce $32,000 of new revenue
based upon an estimate of only 6,400 new members. This is the
equivalent of interest at 4 % on $800,000. E xpressing it in terms of per
capita tax, $32.000 would be the equivalent of an additional l 3c per
capita levy on the Lodges.
We make n o recommendation at this time. Nevertheless should the
presen_t decrease in new membership continue, and should expenses keep
mountm g, we may of necessity place this matter before Grand Lodge
at the 1963 Communication.
For the present we will continue to keep our expenses at a minimum,
consistent with the high standard of operation for which our homes are
noted.
With this thought in mind, we recommend the continuation of the
present $1.00 per capita tax for the use and benefit of the M asonic
Homes of California for the coming year.

FINANCE

Despite strict budgeting and persistent efforts on the part of the
Superintendents of both Homes and the Trustees, o~r operating c~sts
continue to rise. This is due to rising labor costs, increased medical
charges. the increase in the average age of the Deco~o resi_dents, and
the number of new applicants for admission and for outside relief.
Were it not for the valiant efforts of the Endowment Board, and
the support given to us by our brethren and frien_ds. we \:ould ha~e
to look to the Lodges for additional funds. Beside the mcrease m
expense, we are faced with a loss of revenue due to the div_ersion f~om
reserves of substantial sums to provide for the new construct10n required
to service our additional Decoto population. For each $1.000,000 converted to buildings we suffer a loss of approximately $40,000 of investment income per year.
The Trustees are reluctant to seek an increase in the per capita tax
the Lodges and are meeting the decrease in receipts and increase in
~~penses by transferring from reserves whenever possible. Obviously
this cannot continue indefinitely.
The auditor's final figures for the 1962 fiscal year disclosed a gain
on the sale of securities of $170,501.23 without which we would have
shown a deficit. This is, of course, a non-recurring item and was produced largely through the sale of securities to provide cash for our
current construction program.
There is one possible source of additional money which has been
discussed by the Trustees on a number of occasions. In 1919 Grand
Lodge voted a levy of $20.00 on applicants for the degrees and for

107

CONCLUSION

We cannot close this report without again expressing our appreciation for the ge nerous gifts and bequests of money and property which
over the years have made possible the excellent standards we have set
for our Homes a nd to which we pledge our full measure of continued
support.
Respectfully submitted,
EDGAR V. STEWART, J R., President
L. HAROLD ANDERSON, Vice President
PHIL N. MYERS
}AMES LEO HALLEY
EDw ARD

J. BucKFELDT

GEORGE D. GAVIN
IRA

w. COBURN
w. HEALD

ELMER

THEODORE M ERIAM

Referred to Committee on Finance.

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

108

GRAN D LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

REP ORT OF SUP ERI NTE NDE NT -

MA SON IC HO ME
AT UN ION CIT Y (Decoto)

· H
es of California:
To the Boar d of Trus tees of the M asonic
om
. .
d
to subm it my seve nth annu al
It is a since re privilege a~ ~leas ure
.
Hom
e at Deca to for the fiscal
repo rt as Supe rinte nden t of t e asom c
Year endi ng June 30. 1962.
J
Duri ng the past fisca.1 year ~ur P0 ?ulation has incre ased . On u1Y 1,
men
and
222
wom en (this
1961 there were 365 residents. mclu ding 143
f 81 34 Ove r the
7
. d
uple
s)
with
an
aver
age
age o
. .
inclu ded 1 marr ie co
fl
d
d we reac hed a new
high in
year our popu latio n has .uct~a~~u· 1:~
11 women. and 6 men on the
Nov emb er, 1961 of 382. with
p
wait ing list. As of June 30. we were up· 11 over the same perio d last
year .
e a e of 79.5 7 year s and 39 women,
This past year 40 men. aver agd ~ H me
We laid to rest 30 men,
aver age age of 78.10 year s. ente re t e
oge
~ge
of 83.88 year s. Ther e
aver age age of 82.53 and 32 wom en. aver
a
were 2 men and 4 wom en with draw n.
.
.
was 376 whic h cons isted of 151
1f
As of June 30, 19~2 our .pop2u0a
10n
Jes
with. an over -all aver age age
men and 225 wom en. mcludmg
coup •
of 81 .66 year s.
Age Grou ps

Men

Wom en

Tota l

60-6 9

7

10

17

70-7 9

46

75

121

80-8 9

81

117

198

90-9 9

17

22

39

100

0

376
225
h
't l f whic h 77 are considOf the 376 total . 90 wer~ in4~:.o~s:~ :h~
receive assis tance with
ered permanendt. Thdere aren~:: supe rvisi on
of
the
hosp ital staff.
their daily nee s an are u
.
. g the
f
131
b d At one time d urm
Our hosp ital has a capa city o
e s. over 120 confined. Par
year for a perio d of seve ral week s. there
f 90 to 100 in thl
the ~ast few mon ths there has been an were
aver age o
hosp ital.
151

109

Mrs. Elea nor Farr is assu med the direction
of the hosp ital on May 1,
succeeding Mrs. Even gelin e Ada ms who
pass ed awa y sudd enly in
April. Mrs. Farr is is fulfilling her dutie s
mos t efficiently and satis factorily and is very well liked by all the resid
ents.
Paul Reic hert is doin g a nobl e job in purc
hasin g and stock cont rol.
Mrs. Velm a Huck abee was mov ed from
Mat ron to Activities and
Recreation Coor dina tor. It was a position
adde d durin g the year . to
create some occu patio nal activities for the
resid ents. Thes e inclu ded
leather work , pain ting, sewi ng. read ing
and discussion grou ps. The
patie nts in the hosp ital as well as resid ents
in the Hom e are making
use of this depa rtme nt.
Mrs. Glen rose Arno ld came as a Mat ron
in Febr uary and is to be
commended high ly for the fine job she is
doin g and for her enth usias m
and inter est in the members of the Home.
The kitch en is unde r the direction of Ton
y Gian nini, who is truly
endeavor ing to pleas e all the members with
tasty and nourishing food .
Brother Fred Boyl e retir ed in May after seve
ral year s as Office Man ager .
Rev. Ted Mcll venn a is the Hom e Chap lain
and is doin g a good job in
caring for the spiri tual need s of the resid ents.
The medical prog ram is unde r the direc tion
of the Palo Alto Clinic.
Dr. Milt on Cha tten is the visiting doctor,
carin g for the sick. Dr. Kenneth Lee is our dent ist. Dr. Way ne Coll ins
is the podi atris t. All three
depa rtme nts are. work ing out very satis facto
rily.
Duri ng the year we have adde d the services
of the following :
Phy sioth erap ist-w ho visits the Hom e once
a week and with assistance from our staff, ende avor s to reha bilita
te some of the patie nts to
assist themselves.
Labo rator y Tech nici an-w ho on the doct ors'
orde rs, visits the hospital and mak es the nece ssary tests , saving
the patie nts the trip to Palo

Alto.

A Chir opra ctor in Hay ward is carin g for
those that pref er this kind
of treat men t.
We are also using the services of a Chri
stian Scie nce Prac titio ner
for thos e relyi ng on this method of treat men
t.
Wit h our incre asing popu latio n and age,
the entir e medical staff
has a very heav y load . It seems more and more
need to see the doct ors
and require the hospital services and medi
cines.
Inau gura ted also were bus trips once a mon
th, takin g all who wish
to go. Thes e have inclu ded trips to San
Fran cisco , Sant a Cruz , Mar in

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

County, and we saw a ball game on June 16 and plan to see the Ice
Follies on July 4. We are indebted to the booking companies of Columbia, M.G.M., Favorite Films, Twentieth Century Fox and United
Artists for furnishing movies each week for the enjoyment of the residents. We have enjoyed many wonderful programs in the auditorium
during the year. We extend our sincere thanks and appreciation to all
the groups responsible. Some of these were the various Masonic Lodges,
Scottish and York Rite Bodies, Shrine groups, Eastern Star Chapters,
De Malay, Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls, and local school groups as
well as many individuals.
We wish also to thank the many groups within the Eastern Star
Chapters for keeping us well supplied with gowns, dressings and many
other useful items. The year has brought many Lodges to our Temple
to confer the various degrees, for the benefit of the Brethren. To the
Brethren of the Lodges, other groups and the many individuals who
contributed to the Christmas Fund, both in money and gifts, our heartfelt thanks for your generosity. For the many items of clothing, reading
-material, TVs, honey, and many other items, we express thanks and
appreciation.
It was a pleasure to welcome the Grand Master on his annual visitation to the Home and with the residents on January 20. The Board of
Trustees were all present for their annual visit and quarterly meeting.
That evening a reception was held for the Most Worshipful Grand
Master by the residents. They entertained him and the Trustees with a
musical program. Many of the Trustees have also visited the Home
during the year.
Another highlight of the year was the annual visitation of the East
Bay Past Matrons Association, their reception for their Worthy Grand
Matron and "Jam and Jelly Day." This was on AU'gust 19, 1961. There
were approximately 700 in attendance and brought with them 9,234
jars of jam•s and jelly plus maniy other items of fruit, juice, books,
clothing, etc.
Approximately 1,400 members of Grand Lodge, their wives and
friends visited the Home on "Grand Lodge Day," September 27, 1961.
On arrival they were served a box lunch. After their visit, punch and
cookies were served.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

111

Th~e wer.e 4,567 visitors who signed our register, representing 450
Lodges m California, 69 foreign jurisdictions and 9 foreign countries.
To the residents of the Home my thanks for your cooperation to
myself and all the staff.
My sincere thanks to all the employees and staff for your grand
~ooperation, untiring efforts and interest in caring for our large family.
It has been a sincere pleasure in serving the Board of Trustees and
~he Frat.ernity. My thanks for your confidence in me and your sincere
interest m the Home and its residents.
Respectfully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID, Superintendent

112

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT COVINA HOME
To the Board of Trustees of the M asonic Homes of California:
It is with great pleasure that I present my fourteenth report as
Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina, for the
year ending June 30. 1962.
HOME MEMBERSHIP

As of June 30. 1962, the population of our Masonic Home Family
numbers forty-nine children - thirty boys and nineteen girls. During
the fiscal year of 1961-1962, twenty-three children have been admitted
to the Home. fifteen boys and eight girls. Twelve children left the Home,
three after graduating from high school. eight returning to their
families or guardians, and one entering the Navy. All of the graduates
plan to continue their education through scholarship assistance by the
Home.
Families
Children
Family Status
6
8
Orphans
6
13
H/O Fathers Living
3
5
H/O Mothers Living
11
23
Living
Both Parents
Family relationships in the H ome consist of the following:
Two families of four children ; four families of three children; nine
families of two children; and eleven families of one child each . Eight
children, representing three families, are in the Home under the membership of the grandparent. Forty-one children from twenty-three
families are in the Covina Home under the membership of their father.
This fall. nineteen children will be in high school, eight will be in junior
high, eighteen in grade school. one in kindergarten, and three in college.
The twenty-six families are here on applications from twenty-six
Lodges.
HoME, ScHooL. AND COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES

The past yea r has continued to be outstanding in all respects. One
boy and one girl were awarded the distinction of representing Charter
Oak High School and the Home at the American Legion Boys' and Girls'
State in Sacramento. Karen Archinal was sponsored by American Legion
Auxiliary Victory No. 54. Charles H enry was sponsored by the Sunshine Post No. 251. For his record as an Intermediate Boy, Tom Mann
received the coveted award of "Boy of the Year for 1961." Steve
Archinal was awarded the Adolph Koshland "Good Citizenship" prize.
The year 1962 proved another highly successful one for the Masonic
Home Pioneers, our 4-H Club. After winning many awards at the Los
Angeles County F air, the group went on to achieve the following at

:iRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

113

the -t-H Fair in Pomona: 1st and 2nd awards in H orse Showm~nsbip,
'th Georgia Cox carrying the 1st Place honors; a 2nd award m Beef
~~owmanship; six 1st place ribbons in the Beef Division, and a 2nd
. Group Display; and a 3rd place Beef Trophy. Later on, at the very
~mpetitive Malibu Horse Show, Georgia Cox again placed high. Our
~-H Club, the Masonic Home Pioneers, numbers nine boys and one
girl.
Mr. Smithson, the Parm Manager, has worked very hard with the
children to bring about these outstanding results. As part of the farm
program, horseback riding lessons and in~tructions in horse _showmanship for competition have been made available for those children who
were interes ted.
Home children attending Charter Oak H igh School won many
honors. Members of the Legislature were Fred Clinkscale, Terry H enry.
Beverly W erner, and Shirley Williams. Linda Williams, a member of
the Class Council. also achieved the distinction of being a flag twirler.
In the sophomore class, Fred Clinkscale, T e rry H enry, and Sharon
Williams were members of the Class Council. Jerry Orth and Larry
Reitz played with the Band. Chuck Henry was on the staff of the
SHIELD, the yearbook: while Andy Scott was Sports Editor of the

SCROLL.
In the field of athletics, we bad Lettermen in many divisions. Bill
Galvery lettered in "A" football. Terry Henry in "B." Fred Clinkscale,
Jim Hoard. and Doug Yungling lettered in cross country; Chuck
Henry, Andy Srntt, and D oug Yungling in track. Andy Scott lettered
also, in "A" basketball. In addition to the regular competition at the
school, this year saw the formation of a Southern California Homes'
Athletic League, in which our boys competed wi th boys from Homes in
the Los Angeles County Area in basketball, baseball, a nd track. For
basketball, the Home came away with a 1st place for the League in the
"A" division. Baseball netted us a 1st place in the "B" division. In
track, the boys achieved a 1st in "A" and a 2nd in "D-'.: 1;,t the ~ar~
Ellen Relays. the H ome won a 2nd place in both the A and D
divisions. It will be readily seen that the Covina Home youngsters can
hold their own very well in athletic competition. In connection with the
H omes' basketball contest, Don Fuller, Jr., received the Sportsmanship
Trophy for the "B" team; Jim Hoard for the "A" team. Three .of o~r
Intermediate Boys competed in Pony League, two o f the J umors in
Little League.
The children's interest in many organizations is encouraged and
fostered. Two of the Junior Girls belong to the Girl Scouts. Several
of our girls belong to Covina Bethel No. 98. Order of Job's D aug hters;
in which, as a matter of note, Chris Hutchison, the present Honored

1I1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Queen. is a daughter of Home Alumna Lillian (Nelsen) Hutchison
1927 to 1936. The boys are members of George Washington Chapter'
Order of De Malay. '.J\vo. Bill Barraclough and Douglas Yungling:
were named for the s ignal honor of being chosen Representative De
Malay fa~ All-Rou~d D evelopment. Both received the award the week
before their graduation from high school.
One of the favorite spots in the Covina Home is the swimmin
pool. arou~d which _a re centered many activities. Five of our youn~
people achieved_ Senior ~ed Cross Lifesaving Certificates this spring.
~h~ an~ual_ ~w1m for Distance (Miles) was held. In addition to the
\ anous md1v1du_al Dorm, winners , the Sweepstakes Trophy was won
b~ the Intermediate Boys Dorm. which swam a total distance of 29.38
nnles.
Jim Hoard won the individual honor by swimming 8.16 miles in
fou_r an~ ?ne~half hours. The combined Home total was I 05.66 miles.
This acttv~ty is a preparatory step in developing the stamina and endurance re~u1red to participate in the many water events staged at camp.
~urmg the summer, each of the groups enjoyed a camping program
at Big Bear Lake, with horseback riding, swimming, handicraft, etc ..
p~rt of .the progr~m. During the Easter vacation, the older boys and
g~rl.s en1oye~ ~.sojourn at Lake Mohave, while all the groups had in?1v1dual activities as recreation. In recent weeks, various Dorms enjoyed a weekend jaunt to the trailer at Mission Beach.
Drivers' Training, so essential a part of modern living, is available
~t the school to children who reach the acceptable age. As part of this
important phase of modern living, they take "Behind the Wheel" and
Drivers' Training Courses at the high school. Once they have completed
these, they are supervised and instructed by their Houseparents in the
ac~ual use of the Masonic Home vehicle assigned for use by the
child~en. Only drivers licensed by the State and passed by our Home
examiner, and who are graduates of the aforementioned courses are
'
permitted to drive the Home cars.
In order to assist the children in their educational program, supplementary instruction from the Home Teacher and other tutors is available. This year, in particular, Speed Reading was offered. and the results
were most gratifying and amazing. Educational interest is fostered and
motivated by a remedial and accelerated program within the Home
toward :he end that a dedication to higher education is instilled wherever
approprtate.
previ~usly mentioned our six graduates have each prepared to
contmue _their education. Two boys have been granted full tuition
~cholar.sh1p~ by the University of Southern California for four years
m En_gmeermg . Another is majoring in Engineering at California Polytechmc College at San Luis Obispo, while still another will attend the

':s

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1I5

San Dimas branch of Cal Poly as a business major. Fullerton Junior
College will be attended by our fifth boy graduate, and our only girl
graduate will attend U.C.L.A.
Mr. Bliss of the Bliss Delivery Service continues his kindness in
having his drivers deliver our Home movie without charge. We received
features and cartoons from Columbia Pictures Corporation, Loew's
(MGM), Twentieth Century Fox Film Exchange, Universal Films
Exchange, Warner Brothers, and Allied Artists' P ictures Corporation.
Movie night is a popular one, to which many of the children invite
guests. Swim Parties, and Slumber Parties at the Girls' Dorms are all
favorite events. The older boys are permitted to petition, in pairs, for
the use of the "date Car," and use this for their special events. Transportation by car or bus is provided for other affairs such as dances,
athletic contests, Award Banquets. etc.
V1sITATIONS

Sundays continue to bring countless members of the Fraternity to
visit the Home and grounds with their families and friends. The Lodges
have responded very well in cooperating with the Home"s visitation
program. Lodge or group visitations are the third Sunday of each
month. Reservations are taken for a maximum of four hundred persons
on this visitation Sunday, and Lodges may hold their group visitation
not oftener than once every two years. Picnic accommodations are
available as well as guided tours by the children. Reservations must be
made in advance and are taken in the order of their receipt. Frequently,
Alumni come out. on the day the Lodge which sponsored them is
scheduled to visit.
HEALTH

The health of each youngster in the Home is a major concern with
every member of the staff. The Magan Clinic continues to be our supervisory health consultants, where the children are taken for regular physical examinations and any additional medical care they require. For their
eyes, they see Dr. McCormick for routine matters, Dr. Namikas, an
oculist, for more complicated conditions. Dr. Pancoska covers the routine
dental care, Dr. Teal. orthodontia. Where help by other specialists is
required, it is supplied. Every effort is expended to keep the children
in excellent physical condition.
DoMESTIC Sc1ENCE CorrAGE

On October 2, 1961, five of the older Senior Girls moved into the
Domestic Science Cottage under the supervision of Mrs. Munger
(Senior Girls' Housemother). For the remainder of the school year,
1961-1962, the girls assumed the responsibility of the usual problems
of maintaining a home. They originated their own menus, shopped for
the supplies they required through retail channels, and prepared their
own meals.

116

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The girls were assigned a definite budget, and were required to
keep their expenses within the allotted sum. Each month they reviewed
the expenditures that would be needed, re-budgeted, and arranged
for a conference with the Superintendent to determine whether or not
the proposed monthly budget was feasible. The remainder each month
was divided among the five young ladies.
At Christmastime, on the evening of the Home Party, the girls held
an Open House to which the Trustees were invited. Many times during
the year the Domestic Science Cottage entertained guests for supper,
and served refreshments after Home functions.
All of the girls matured immeasurably as a result of this experience,
and gained practical knowledge that will be essential for them as future
homemakers.
THE ALUMNI
The real test of this or any other Home is how the children feel
about it after they graduate. Our contact with the Alumni is a living
thing-like a charged wire. One of the most important mediums in this
relationship is the annual Newsletter. The 1962 edition is the finest ever
published, and about one-half of its contents is devoted to the Alumni,
either in the form of letters they have written or in the departments
which describe the Reunions and vital statistics in their lives. Copies
of this edition were mailed to all Alumni who were contributors, those
who had sent in wedding, birth, or change of address notices, those
who visited personally, and all those who attended any of the Reunions.
In addition, a copy was mailed to each Lodge sponsoring a child in the
Home, Grand Lodge Officers, members of the Board of Trustees, Past
Grand Masters, and members of the Endowment Board.
The number of Alumni Reunions increased this year to four: the
regular Covina gathering on the second Sunday in September, the
Sacramento Picnic on the first Saturday in June, the Reunion Dinner in
San Francisco on the Saturday preceding Grand Lodge, and a Reunion
Dance in Covina on the last Saturday in October. Each one was successfull and well-attended, with all present happily anticipating the next
year's event.
Whenever the Alumni from one of the Services are in the area, they
come "Home" to Covina. They call up about advice in regard to their
problems, and in every way regard the Home as a pillar of strength in
their background. What is even more touching is the expression of
gratitude from the young people themselves.
Another expression of gratitude was received in the mail this week.
While it has been directed to my attention, it was meant for the entire
Masonic Fraternity of California. I am therefore taking the liberty of
enclosing it as part of my annual report. It expresses sentiments in
writing that I have been privileged to have heard over the years.
Covina, California
June 15, 1962
1

117

Masonic Home for Children
20336 East Badillo Street
Covina, California
Attention: Robert M. Henry, Superintendent
"Dea!l' Friends,
"Last night my son Bill graduated from the Charter Oak High
School. and I was a proud and happy mother as I witnessed this event
- the first big milestone in what we hope will be a successful career.
This also marks the official end for Bill as a regular member of 'the
family' at the Masonic Home.
"That is why I am taking this opportunity to put in writing, as a
matter of record, the thoughts that are in my heart. Seven years ago
(lacking three days) a little boy, eleven years old and two years past
the death of his beloved father, was placed in your care. It was a
terrific responsibility on my part to make such a decision, and I spent
many anxious hours considering the implication of two words: 'relin:iuish custody.' But the decision was made, based on what I felt would
':>e the welfare of this precious boy of tender age.
"Neither he. nor I. have ever regretted that decision for one moment.
In fact, if his father had left him a fortune it would not have been of as
much value as the love, and care, and training, Bill has had in the shelter
of the wonderful organization of Masons. I have gone to the Home
practically every Sunday for seven years, and in all that time I have
never found one word or action that a loving and watchful mother would
not approve of wholeheartedly. His care and surroundings have been
far better than I could have provided for him, and I will be g·r ateful to
my dying day for this 'legacy' from his father.
"So now as we mark the end of boyhood, and the commencement
of his manhood my hopes and prayers are that he will continue to build
on the strong foundation that has been laid, and that he will fulflll and
justify the trust, faith, and confidence so many fine people have placed
in him. And as he becomes the kind of man we can all be proud of, most
of the credit will rest with you.
"With sincerest gratitude,"
(Mrs.) Ruth G. Barraclough
May I add my expression of appreciation to the Craft and to the
Board of Trustees for the privilege of association and service with the
fine young boys and girls who indeed are a source of pride to our
"Family at Covina.''

Respectfully Submitted
ROBERT M. HENRY, Superintendent

118

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board hereby submits its 30th
Annual Report for your thoughtful consideration, covering the fiscal
year ending June 30. 1962.
W1tLS AND B EQUESTS

This year. the Homes Endowment F und received $63,612.17 in bequests. representing final and lasting tribute to our great work of
"caring for our own."
Additional effort was expended this year to stimulate the making of
bequests. by the brethren, in favor of the Masonic H omes and the
M asonic Homes Endowment Fund . This Boa rd requested the Lodges
to send in the names a nd addresses of a ll attorn eys who are members of
the Craft. As a result, more than 1500 na mes have been received a nd a
booklet on " Wills and Bequests." written by M. W . Joe L. Shell,
P.G.M .. has been mailed to each such attorney. Brother Ra lph H. Head,
who was a member of the Homes Board of Trustees for many years, in
addition to many other Masonic a ssignments, arranged to have the
booklets printed at no cost to Masonry. Also. the Lodges ordered an
a dditional 50,000 small pamphlets entitled "I Give and Bequeath,"
written by brother Everett Houser, for mailing to members.
I NCOME FROM T HE ENDOWMENT FU ND

The earnings from the Endowment Fund for the past fiscal year
a mounted to $468,000.00, which amount was credited to the cost of
operation of the H omes.
I NDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION

This year, 11 3,346 brethren made contributions to the Homes Endowment Fund, for a net increase of 3,613 contributors over a y ear ago.
The number of contributors has been steadily increasing each year but,
even so, more than 130.000 brethren made no contribution to the Endowment Fund this past year. These figures should be of concern to the
Lodges that we may join in a concerted effort to materially increase the
number of contributors, that all may share in this great M asonic
endeavor.
CASH CONTRIBUTIONS

Individual contributions through the Lodges amounted to $696,787.15, for an increase of $51 ,333.39 over the previous year. These
figures do not include bequests, memoria ls, ·special gifts, etc., which
are shown elsewhere in this Report.
HONOR ROLL LODGES

Honor Roll sta tus was attained this year by 616 Lodges by averaging
$2 or more per member, as compared to 573 a year ago, for a net in-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

119

crease of 43 Honor Roll Lodges. Thirty-nine Lodges were on the Honor
Roll this year for the very first time. Only 87 out o f 702 Lodges. failed
to attain the Honor Roll this year. The Honor Ro.I.I, ho"".ever, is ~~w
considered more as a minimum amount but not the stoppmg-plac~ . It
should be only a stepping-stone or mile-post along the way to a higher
accomplishment.
$3 OR M o RE AVERAGE
A much higher attainment and distinction than the Honor Roll is
for a Lodge to be in the special listing of those Lodges which average
$3 or more per member, listed according to the av~rage, and t~ be as
high as possible on that list. To such Lodges we give our special co~­
gratulations and sincere thanks. Last year there were 184 Lodges on this
list. This year there are 269, as follows:
Average
amount
No.
Lodge
per member
805 Camellia ··----------· - _ ...........$16.46
733 Golden Empire .................. 14.71
698 William D. Stephens .......... 10.09
743 Oakwood ..............._............ 7.35
800 Rio Hondo .......................... 6:49
780 Riviera ...................._........... 6.20
U.D . Scept~r .............................. ~·6J
778 La Mirada ..........................
.
595 Alexander Graham Bell.... 6.01
797 Tila Pass _........................... 5.97
331 Pacific G rove .................... 5.95
786 Rio Linda ............................ 5.95
623 Menorah ............................ 5.82
737 Hillsborougl't ...................... 5.68
715 Pen insula ............................ 5.63
309 Delano ................................ 5.59
278 Southern California .......... 5.57
566 James A. Garfield................ 5.57
766 James H. Kew.................... 5.51
307 Santa M onica ............-....... 5.H
727 Verdugo Hills .................... 5.36
685 San Marino ........................ 5.35
662 Henry Knox ...................... 5.34
251 Reading .............................. 5.30
113 Franklin .............................. 5.26
378 Mizpah ................................ 5.26
464 Alta Vista .......................... 5.24
755 Golden Bowl -·········..······.... 5.23
580 Santa Maria ...................... 5 .17
5 16 T aft ...................................- 5.15
768 Zeni th .................................. 5.08
739 La Canada.......................... 5.07
794 Mt. Wilson ........................ 5.06
779 Five Points ........................ 5.01
115 Wilshire .............................. 4 .92
327 Long Beach........................ 4.90
795 American River ................ 4.89
358 Golden State ...................... 4.88
155 Golden West...................... 4.87

A verage
amount
No.
Lodge
per member
467 Culver C ity ........................ 4.86
734 Kit Carson .......................... 4.86

~~ ~~1~:i~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: u~

144 Oriental ·······----···········........ 4.59
781 Rolling Hills -···········-·····"" 4.57
513 Cahucnga ··-·---········· .. -·-----· 4.55
742 Morningside Park ............ 4.55
600 Lynwood ............................ 4.54
629 Fairview ·---···----·-·.. ·-----·..... 4 .53
790 Granada Hills .. _............... 4.53
448 Mt. Oinblo .......................... 4.5 1
533 Azure .................................. 4.51
272 Pasadena ............................ 4.50
697 Saint Elmo ........................ 4.50
540 Queen Beach ...................... 4.37
729 Centennial .......................... 4.34
200 Truckee .............................. 4.33
599 Carmelita ·-·····--·····-·..··-.. ·-·-· 4.32
767 W illiam Rhodes Hervey.. 4.32
219 Speranza Italiana .............. 4.3 1
290 East Gate ----··--··....·----··-...... 4 .3 1
616 R. E . Dolley........................ 1.30
760 Lakeside .............................. 4.28
300 Redlands .............-.............. 1 .26
699 Bixby Knolls ...................... 1 .26
799 Bay Claire Vista................ 4.25
452 Sa n Pasqual ...................... 4.23
646 Metropolitan ...................... 4.23
661 Malta .................................. 4.20
637 Palisades ............................ 4.19
264 Hesperian .......................... 4.16
3 Tehama .............................. 4.15
789 Oak Plains ........................ 1.14
753 Lawndale ............................ ·U 2
95 Henry Clay ........................ 1.11
542 North Hollywood ............ 1.09
237 Guadalupe .......................... 1 .07
483 Bell ...................................... 4.07

120

No.
702
622
710
764
765
788
758
320
611
712
783
242
373
368
589
40
740
769
21
547
417

642

191
194
379
202
267
717
492
329
732
20
548
421
SH
26
663
688
703
529
81
546
574
394
741
1
475
694
80
596
709
677
10
462
485
450
639
643
355

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Rosemead .......................... 4.07
Atwater ·····-·····-·-·-··· ····· 4.05
Anacapa ····-·············-········· 4.05
4.05
4.05
Sierra ·······························-· 4.05
West Covina ···········-·-···· 4.03
South Gate -······-··-··- 4.02
Canoga ···-······················-· 4.02
Los Altos ·········-················· 4.00
Mojave ----··-········-·· ·-·· 4.00
Magnolia ............................ 3.99
West Los Angeles········-···· 3.99
3.97
3.96
Sacramento ........................ 3.93
Opportunity ...................... 3.92
Palmdale ···········-··············· 3.92
Hawaiian ···············-······-··· 3.91
Arcadia -·········-··········-····· 3.91
Clovis .................................. 3.91
La Cumbre ........................ 3.88
Marin ···--··························· 3.87
Mountain View ................ 3.87
Fillmore ···························-· 3.87
Pentalpha --············-·-·· - 3.86
Galt -···-··························· 3.85
Wayfarer ·········-··············· 3.85
Garvanza ····-··········-·-······ 3.83
Vallee de F'l'ance................ 3.80
San Juan ········-·················· 3.79
Washington •....................• 3.78
Triangle ·--··········-····· ····· 3.78
Inglewood •......................... 3.78
Glendale ··-·-·········-··········· 3.76
E l Dorado ···-··········-········· 3.72
Ojai ········-·-········-·········-··· 3.72
Oildale ................................ 3.72
W estC'hester ····················- 3.71
Loyalty ···--···················--· 3.70
Yolo --·····---····················· 3.68
San Gabriel ....................... . 3.68
S. W . Hackett.................... 3.68
3.65

~!a~~ wcli;::::::::==

~: :::=::::::::::::::::=:::::::::

¥~~~~. :::::::::::::::::::::::: 3.64

Califorrua ··················-······
America ····················-········
Sain Antonio ····················Ione -·-····--·····················Guardian ······················- ···
Lorenzo ···-··················-·····
Liberal Arts ·····-·················
San Jose ···-············-···········
Paul Revere ·········-·············
Chowchilla ···--········-·······
Van Nuys ......................•...
Composite ·····-········--·······
Alta Loma -·········-·············
Hollywood ·············-······802 yucca Valley -·········-·······

3.63
3.63
3.63
3.62
3.59
3.59
3.58
3.57
3.57
3.57
3.56
3.55
3.55
3.54
3.54

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Average
amount
Lodge
per member
Downey ····-·····--·-··-·· ···· 3.53
Garden Grove.................... 3.51
~ -----···-·-···· ·-··· 3.50
a&y ·--·····---·--· ··-····- 3A9
Temblor -·--···-······· ··· 3.49
Belmont Shore ............•..... 3.49
Ashlar ··········-··················· 3A8
Sierra Madre •..................... 3.48
Two Rivers ·····-··············-· 3.48
East Whittier ·····-············· 3A8
South Pasadena ................ 3A7
Estero ................................ 3A7

No.
220
586
352
101
477
716
306
408
731
776
367
719
645 A. F. E. Irwin.......-···-··
353 Pinole ·-··············-·····---··457 Ramona ..............................
538 Ascot ···············-··············-·
736 Lemon Grove ·-······-·········
684 Trona ···········-·····················
13 Nevada ···························-·
106 Arcata - ·-······-······-··········
578 Progressive ········-··············
612 Temple City ·····-···············
354 Presidio ·····-··············-·····330 Kilauea .............................•
504 Seaside ·····························-·
56 Volcano ·····················-·····402 Brawley ..............................
521 Piedmont ·······················-···
493 Atascadero ··················-·-·
615 Hemet ·······················-·······
506 Mount Olive ......................
182 Arbuckle ............................
120 Fidelity ..............................
174 Drytown ............................
372 Gardena ·····-······--······ ···558 Point Firmin ····················422 Eagle Rock .......................•
429 Pittsburg ··········-················
628 Truth ················-················
641 James A. Foshay................
35 San Diego ..........................
334 Covina ···············-···············
437 Lancaster ······················-·-·
482 Clarence F. Smith..·-·····-728 Lakewood ·····················-·296 Silver Gate ........................
470 Lincoln ···········-··-··············
481 Mt. Davidson ....................
715 Magnolia Park ..................
798 Ashland ························-····
405 Moneta ····-·······················
644 Lomita ................................
356 Mill Valley ······-················
425 Holtville ···············-········-·505 Silver Gord ················-······
706 Hunter's Point Naval........
787 Westminster ......................
653 Fontana ···-·························
751 Hamilton ···············-····-·····
784 Leland Stanford ·········---

3.46
3A5

3.45
3A5
3A5
3.44
3A3
3.43
3A2
3A1
3.40

3.39
3.39
3.38
3.35
3.34
3.32
3.32
3.31
3.30
3.28
3.28
3.27
3.27
3.26
3.26
3.26
3.26
3.25
3.25
3.25
3.25
3.25
3.24
3.23
3.23
3.23
3.23
3.22
3.22
3.21
3.21
3.21
3.21
3.21
3.20
3.20
3.20

Average
amount
No.
Lodge
per membet'
523 Bellflower -···-················ ··- 3.19
696 Crossroads ···················-··- 3.18
5 Benecia ·····-··········-··· ····- 3.17
458 Henry S. Orme... _............. 3.17
614 Larchmont -······················· 3.17
771 Mission Bay .....................• 3.17
147 Eel River ····-···············-· ··- 3.16
346 Palo Alto ............................ 3.16
369 Ocean Park .......................• 3.16
503 Point - ··-··-·····-·············- 3.16
87 Naval ·-······-······················· 3.15
683 Redwood Empire·········- ··· 3.15
91 North Star ·-······················· 3.14
273 Anchor -·-··········-··············· 3.14
393 Balder -··--························ 3.14
534 Forest Hill ···-···················· 3. H
349 Sequoia ··--························ 3.13
618 Southland -·-···················· 3.13
718 San Lorenm VaHey.......... 3.13
721 Home ········-··---··············· 3.13
414 Arlington ···---············ ··· 3.12
324 Cororia ····-·····-········· ······· 3.11
415 Silver Trowel .................... 3.11
584 Harding ·····-·-········-·· ····· 3.11
656 Citrol -····----····· ·····-·· 3.11
594 Service ·········-····················· 3.10
132 Sincerity ...•........................ 3.09
603 Dimond ··--··- ·················- 3.09
720 Mineral King ...................... 3.09
186 Evening Star ...................... 3.08
762 Coostside ·--······················· 3.08
127 Hermann ............................ 3.07
145 Vitruvlus - ·-·····················- 3.07
351 Palestine ............................ 3.07
466 Libertas -··························· 3.07
705 El Cerrito ···-············-······· 3.07

No.
64
215
319
333
543
61
217
241
444
536
723
141
211
277
293
322
387
522
568
635
666
674
344
435
621
247
42
275
588
605
667
693
713
756
761

121

Average
amount
per member
N atoma -···························· 3.06
Oak Grove ··--···············-- 3.06
Hollenbeck .......................• 3.06
Alta ···-·-················ ········- 3.06
Signal ·····························-··· 3.06
Live Oak ·························- 3.05
Monterey ···-·············-· -- 3.05
Santa Ana ························- 3.05
Carpinteria ·················-···- 3.05
Seal Rock ····--················-- 3.05
Acalanes ···-···--···············- 3.05
Grafton ·······················-··- 3.04
San Benito ·····················- - 3.04
Selma ························ ···- 3.04
Orange Grove .................... 3.04
Alhambra ····--·---············ ·- 3.04
Coalinga ···············-········- 3.04
Sunrise ·····-······················- 3.04
Park Boulevard ................ 3.04
Riverside ...........................• 3.04
Reseda ···········--·············-·- 3.04
Los Cerritos ···-··········-····· 3.04
Starr King ········-············- 3.03
Fairmount ························- 3.03
The Gardens ····················- 3.03
Fresno ····-·····-··················· 3.02
Los Angeles ··············-·-··· 3.01
Oakdale ·····-·····················- 3.01
El Sereno ·························-· 3.01
Glassel] Park ...................... 3.00
Meridian ·················-·-······ 3.00
Palm Springs ···-·········-·-··· 3.00
Castro Valley ··-·······-····-· 3.00
Clayton Valley ···············-· 3.00
Josiah W . Roller................ 3.00
Lodge

PRINTED ITEMS

This past year, again, the Lodges ordered more than 1,250,000 printed items of information about the Homes and the Endowment to mail
to the members. This year we went all-out for using pictures in the
pamphlets and other printed items, believing that next to a personal
visit to the Homes is to see the pictures of our beautiful Homes and
their facilities, and pictures of the wonderful children and elderly who
live in those Homes. All such pictures were taken at no cost to the Craft.
The Lodges ordered 203,000 of one particular picture pamphlet. They
also ordered 200,000 Grand Master's Proclamations for mailing to
members, and 300,000 contribution envelopes. All such printed items
were written, composed, caused to be printed, and distributed by and
under the supervision of the Endowment Board. Obviously, a great
amount of additional work was done by the Lodges in mailing the printed

122

123

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

items, together with countless thousands of letters and other items
prepared by the Lodges and sent to members. Much of the work done
by the Lodges necessarily falls upon the Lodge Secretary and all such
Secretaries are to be commended for their untiring work. along with the
work of the other Officers, Endowment Committeemen. etc.

"WHEREAS: Brother Oliphant has generously shared his allotted
time with the Chairman of the Endowment Board on numerous occasions, and

ENDOWMENT BOARD PERSO NNE L

Brother James B. Baker found it necessary to resign from the
Endowment Board during the year. because of business pressure, and
brother H ershel! E. Griffin of Santa Ana was appointed to serve the
balance of brother Baker's term on the Board.
Brother Harold R. DeTuncq moved his residence far from the
Bakersfi eld area for which he had been appointed to serve, and therefore
resigned from the Board but has not yet been replaced.
Brother Orno E . Tyler. who served the San Diego area for more
than twenty years as a Member of this Board. decided to "retire" from
his strenuous duties on the Board and Frank R. Porath of San Diego
was appointed to serve that area.
Our thanks go to these three brethren for their devoted service to
this Board, with an extra special thanks and appreciation to Brother
Tyler for his unusually long service. Their work will live on through
the years by the additional funds which were added to the Endowment
through their devoted efforts. and those funds will be earning income
for the Homes for countless years into the future.
THANKS TO HENRY OLIPHANT

Brother Henry Oliphant. who was Assistant Grand Secretary until
his retirement on June 30th of this year, has always been considered one
of our staunchest supporters of the Endowment Board during his entire
more than twenty years as Assistant Grand Secretary. He was our
"Grand Assistant" of this Board. and gave so freely of his time and
effort to assist the Board and to support the Endowment Cause at every
opportunity.
In grateful appreciation of his great service to this Board, the
Masonic H omes Endowment Board. meeting in regular session , unanimously adopted the following resolution and ordered a copy thereof
delivered to Brother Oliphant:
" WHEREAS : Brother Henry D. Oliphant. Assistant Grand Secretary. has, over the years. held quarterly meetings with Secretaries of
the Constituent Lodges in some areas (less frequently in other areas)
throughout the State. and
"WHEREAS: Brother Oliphant has always allocated a generous
amount of time at each of these meetings to the discussion of Masonic
Homes a nd Endowment matters. and

"WHEREAS: It is the unanimous feeling of this Board that a
measurable part of the success of this Board may be attributed to Brother
Oliphant's continued brotherly cooperation, not only at these meetings.
but through h is efforts in office procedures.
" THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED: That the members of the
Endowment Board, individually and collectively, express to Brother
Oliphant, through this resolution, their sincere app reciation for his un~
tiring. friendly, and courteous efforts in helping this Board year after
year. and to wish him in his coming retirement HEALTH. HAPPINESS. and ENCOURAGEMENT in his every undertaking."
OuR APPRECIATION TO ALL

The Homes Endowment Board is simply a service department.
furnishing material. ideas. suggestions and encouragement to the Lodges,
but the real credit for the success of this Board lies in the hands of the
many thousands of officers, committeemen and members who are "on
the firing line," from the Grand Master to the youngest member in the
Lodge.
Most Worshipful Guy B. Mize, Grand Master, has given his wholehearted support to this Board direct, as well as directly to the brethren
as he traveled over the Jurisdiction, giving talks to the many Masonic
meetings.
Our Grand Secretary, Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., the Assistant
Grand Secretary and their entire staff have all given complete cooperation and support. We had a most ardent supporter in Henry D. Oliphant,
while he was Assistant Grand Secretary until his retirement, and he
has volunteered his promise to do everything in his power for this
C ause, even in his retirement. Now, we are receiving equally fine
enthusiasm. cooperation and support from brother Verne W. Hendrix,
our new Assistant Grand Secretary.
Our Grand Lecturer, Brother Don G . Campbell, has always been a
most enthusiastic and helpful supporter of the Hornes Endowment and
has given much encouragement and assistance to this Board in general
and to its Chairman in particular. That spirit has permeated to the
Assistant Grand Lecturers and Inspectors, and the Inspectors are constantly passing it on to the officers of the Lodges. We cannot give too
much credit to the Grand Lecturer, the Assistant Grand Lecturers and
the Inspectors.
The final results, however, lie principally with the Masters, Secretaries
and Endowment Committees of the local Lodges because the final decision is left to them to determine how much of our Endowment publicity

124

items are to be sent to the members; the amount of verbal and bulletin
publicity; and how many letters to members regarding Endowment contributions are to be sent to members. As an example of the tremendous
amount of work involved, this year the Lodges ordered from this Board
and sent to members more than I% million printed items of information about the Homes and the Endowment plus countless thousands of
letters and other items composed and prepared by the local Lodges and
sent to members: and approximately 113,000 contributions were received
by the Lodges from their members and a like amount of individual receipts prepared and sent to the contributors. Much of this work is done
by the Lodge Secretaries, and to them we give our special praise.
All of the above mentioned brethren are both workers and givers,
and we have reason to believe that the workers are also the most liberal
givers, on average. However, our many thanks also go to those who are
givers only, many of whom go far beyond the "token" contribution and
make substantial gifts year after year. To all workers and contributors,
therefore, we express our sincere gratitude.
THE COMING YEAR

The number of elderly residents at our Home for the Aged is at an
all-time high and filled to capacity. with a considerable waiting list.
Construction will soon start on an additional building to house the increased number of residents. No Endowment Funds will be used in the
construction, of course. Most of the cost of construction will come from
the special fund built up from bequests but the income-producing securities now held in those funds must be liquidated to pay the cost of construction which will result in a loss of income from that source. The
cost of operating the Homes is constantly increasing and will increase
all the more as the number of residents increases. They must be cared
for, and we pride ourselves that "Masonry Takes Care of Its· Own."
For the coming year, then, we might adopt some such slogan as "The
need is greater. Work harder and give more."
In conclusion, we humbly request an appropriation of $16,000.00 as
our budget for the coming year.
Respectfully submitted,
THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
JoHN M. GoRDON, Chairman
KERMIT A. JACOBSON , Vice-Chairman (South)
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice-Chairman (North)
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.G .M .. Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M. , Secretary

Referred to Committee on Finance.

125

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

BOARD MEMBERS

Term Expiring

1962

1963

1964

s. BROKAW

ARTHUR A. ANDERSO N

FRED H . BLANCHARD

RALPH

J. GLEN GLADSON

PAULA. BROM

JoHN M. GORDON

LESTER A. PRICE

BYRON COLEMAN

CHARLES H. GRACE

CHARLES R. RATKOVICH FRED F. ELLIOTT

SY DENNIS, JR.

HowARD L. RosE

HERSCHEL E. GRIFFIN

WILLIAM H. SCHOOLER

HENRY G. VAN DYKE

KERMIT A. JACOBSON
CHARLES F. MINETTI

KENT 0. SEYMOUR
FRANK R. PORATH

CoNTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

1958 ............•...........................$
1959 ········································
1960 ........................................
1961 ........................................
1962 ........................................

421 ,633.62
502.120.43
551 ,150.34
645.453.76
696,787.15

RECEIPTS FROM ALL SOURCES

1958 ........................................$ 589,730.78
1959 ........................................ 945 ,762.32
1960 ........................................ 952.127.49
1961 ........................................ 1,293,941 .59
~962 ...................................
1,051,007.96
INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION

1958 .................................................. 81,686
1959 .................................................. 93.425
1960 .................................................. 100,220
1961 .................................................. 109,733
1962 ..................................................112.846
HONOR ROLL LODGES

1958 .......................................................... 365
1959 .......................................................... 453

~ ~~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;~~

1962 .......................................................... 616
$3 OR MoRE AVERAGE

!~~~ ~::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

:u~

:::::::::::::=.::::::::::=.::::::::::=.::::::::::=.:::::::~:i

126

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

127

~..!!..!_~

MEMORIALS (Continue d)

July 1, 1961 - June JO, 1962
It. Gordon Boyd

(The Lodge de aignatiou indicates connectio n by
interest but not necesaari ly by membershi p )
OIFTS .UID DONATIONS ;
£STATES1

MISC!

Wil l G, Adams
Rolf• B , Bid well (Glendora Lodge 1404)
Ern est Brown (Paul Rever e Lodge 1462)
Stephen R, Cof fee (Ierba Buena Lodge #403)
John W. Coope r (Pelo Alto Lodg e NJ46)
Newton D, High (South Pa rk Lodge # 563)
Fred M, (rove (South Gate Lodg e 1320)
Edna M. Leighton
Fr ank Kirkwood Love (Sequoia Lodge #349)
John & Alta MacArthur (Woodbrid ge Lodge ~131)
Ei nar Gustave Micholaon ( Live Oak Lodge 161)
Ada Kervin Ta ylor Mile s (Palos Verd es Lod ge 1389)
Earl L. Nowell (Se r vice Lod ge #594)
Foster Spurg eon Paden (Gold en Stat e Lod ge 1358)
Sarah Frances Perry {Varnont Square Lodge #515)
Bertha Sherwo od ( Southern Cal ifornia Lod ge #278)
'Willia1n Dotr.e r Shonefelt (Sacramen to Lod ge #40)
Alfred Joseoh St rei ( Presidio Lodge #35 4)
Lyman El anso n Thayer (Penta l pha Lodge #202)
Ida B, Th orp (Norwalk Lodge 1315)
Maye Ward (Visalia Lodge 112 8)
Grace Weina pach (S outh Geta Lodge 1320)

' 4, 4211,65
1, 000 , 00
1, 000 ,00
3,124,61
11, 742 . 07
25 , 26
716.So
3, 000.00
2,29 '/ ,09
100 ,00
), 000 ,00

l,8 J0 .48

s, 197 . /3

2,500 , 00
1191.92
948 .}j o
17S , oo

2 , 000 . 00
10,000.00
s,000.00

5, ooo,oo
40.00

He rmo Manu!actu ring Co ,
Aerojet- Gene ral
Mrs, Margaret Hupp
Asa White Memorial
I onic Foundatio n
Church
Methodist
As sociated Spring Corporati on Librasc ope ,A id Club
Duane o, Lighthall
Garland Dean Austin
L.~. Masonic Bowling League
Charl es T, Babers
Los Angeles Ford Square and
.E, V, Brant le1
Compass Club
L. B. Bruton
Masonic Club of farmers and
FlaY1o F. ChaTot
Mercnants Bank
Ja:nes A. Colley
Past Mastera Asen, o!
Kenneth A, Counce
Central Coast Distri c t
C, C, Cro11vell
Roy C, Pelham
Daleth Chapter , Ord er of
Har;r c. Prester
Golden Slipper
San Marino Foundat i on
Mr. & Mrs. E. J. David
Dorthn F. Seay
Robert E. Day
Design 3 Club , Californi a Div. Harold D. SilHlons
George H. Sinpaon
ot Highways, Dietri ct VIII
Space Technolog y Lab orat or iea
H. D, Donaldson
E10pl oyee s
Mrs . Floyd Fiscus
David P. Steuber
Richard ~. frost
Jerry H. Tauger
General Tele ph one Co .
United Fund or San Diego Co.
Mrs, George R, Hann
.l. Wi ndung
Robert
Hanson
Wesley A.
MaeonJ.c Di atrlet e #$42 , 586 , 590 , 592, 594 , 596
MEMORIALS

Dona l d Oar f 1eld Arndt
Eh1or Jay Abbott
Charles Albert Ad ams, PGM P l oyd H. Arnold
Russell John Arnot
John N. Adalls
Earl F • .lrt herton
Willis Ernest Al drich
R. E. Ashe
Allan R, Alexander
ander
x
Ale
Lynn Smith 1 tk1nson
Martin Pete r
Herbert R. A1lvorth
Ernest Paul Alw1n
George Nelson Bal 1
Arvid Andersen
Arthur .&, Barnett
Oscar Anderson
Lloyd W, Bates
R. D• .lnderson
Hra. L1lT Baylef
Harry Allen Anundaon

Ve rnon Bean
Ge r ald Allison Beer
Vivien B. Bentl ey
Glenn Cha mbers Berry
A. S. Bird
Carr oll L. Blacker
Evell Blair
Clifford R. Bollen
Ge orge Louis Bolstad
Harry F , Borden
Mre, Maud :Boren

fheod ore W, Br adley , Sr .
!Ir•• Mnrion Branson
Willi an C, Brom
Kr•• Estelle B, Brooks
larl Grant Br own
Kr•• Nellie Brown
Wi l l iam James Brovn
Pebsr t K. Broy
Kerl• Powell Buck
Har old Hi bbs Buckman
Donald M. Bufkin
Ll oyd Burnette
lenneth L, But t s
Mr•• Mary E, Cameron
Elvin L, Cannon
Clare nce Card
ldward Cardwel l
Oeorc• T. Car l isle
Capt. Conrad Carleen
w. c. •Bud" Carpenter
Erna at Ray Cary
Cranst on Albert Casey
Wi lliam R. Cato
Frank Ed gerton Cavanagh
Glenn Waialdnah CaYender
Perl Chapman
Viva o. Chapman
Jarvie Clark
Walter Wm, B. Clayton
Louie C. J, Clodi
J ohn Winthrop Coate
Mrs. Roberta Coleson
Roy Har~e r Conpt on
Geor geina Constock
.JiJ1 F. Conlin
Richard Cook
A. E. Cooke
Hope Cooper
George J aaee Coulaon
Wil l iam E, CoYell
Karen Cra•en
Basel D. Curran
Bud Curth
John ! , Czarnecki , Sr.
Warren L. Daetv ei ler
Harry Cromwel l Dag&ett
Mre, Meta C. Dalton
Thoma e A. Da•idson
Com. A. M. Davison
Dilbert Day
Donald K. Dick
Clarence Walker Dobi e
Gilbert Dorey
lire. Doty
Tarryll Dougherty
llme r Dowdy
Jolin S, Downe
Mr1. Mary C. Drake
Kr1 • .lnka Dropo
Harman B. Duffey
Mrs. Theodora Econome
Douglae Lyman Edmond•
David 1. Edvard&
Paul R, J.g ger
Martin Eugene Ekatrand
B•raann Louie Engeaann

Harry s. Holley, Sr ,
Monty E. Ericks on
'W ilfrid J ames Holroyd
Dean c. Eubanks
Wi ll ia~ Arm.field Holt
J ano Gee Evans
Edward W. Howard, Sr.
Mr s , Kather i ne Far11en
Jud go Ralph E. Hoyt
Darla Findley
Myron A, Hubertus
R1chard M. Finn
Wi 111 e m Hunter
Harold L. Flegal
Har old R. Hushbeck
Albert J , Fisher
J , Hue h Jackson
J . Fleming
Joserh J oshua Jacob s
Don Zephan Fl ower
Willia~ A, Jewett
A. Vern on F l~h rer
Ha r old Loren Joe r g
Ralph K. F oote
Harold Sidney Johnso n
Dudley For tin
L. Johnson
Herbert
Foster
Lyman Dickerman
Lud'ol ig Johnson
Joh n Francis
Mor ris Johnson
Harold o. Frohn
Wi l liam T, Jobnson
Is ha111 'I/ , Fuqua
Deborah L. Johnston
1 rthur Gage
Roy R. Jordan
Margaret E, Gallagher
Fl oyd E , Judah
Olen R. Gar rett
Ca pt . Theodore Judah
Jos eph Wallace Garside
J ohannes D, Julianue
Harold L. C!ee
Guy McC lellan Karnes
James E. Getchell
Th omae B. llay
Richard E. Gi esin , Jr.
llie.m Ke ller
'Wi
11.'illiBlll Gilbert
Fred A. Kelsey
Lawren ce C, Oi ll
John Henry Ke mp
~rs . Frances Gi lli am
Bliss W, Keyes, J r.
Denny Gilliam
Fred Kieling
Karen Gi l liu1
J , F. Kirby
Lindo J o Gilliam
Isoac J , Kitc hen
am
Gilli
Tommy
Front Robert Knight
J ack Duncan Gilliee
Louise M, Knopf
Jess ie B, Gi nger
Monte Landeied el
Walter Frederick Glave
Joseph Lan i;
Louis F. Coel:lin
Eli Langert
Lawrence Gol d
F, Ho'ola rd Lasc1, Sr.
Max Eliot Go lde
Mrs , Herbe rt M. Lee
Ric har d P. Golladay
Franklin B, Levis
Judge Louis E. Goocnen
Gt.to Fran\: Link
David J . Cordon
Mr•, William Linklater
Alb ort J . Graham
Hro. Aeloa I , Litt l e
Marion R, Gray
.l rthur Lit t le
Lonnie H. Green
Ralph Lee Lookv ood
Wa l lace D, Gri ffin
Gold en D. Lo ng
Benjamin H, Gri gg s
David 1. Lov
Mr s. Barba ra Grus e
Mrs , ~argaret Low
ussendorf
Edvard Gr
Harry Clarence Lo•ry
Robert J , Hall
John W. Luby
Clinton R. Hamann
John L. Lucaa
Earl H. Hancock
Ear l F r ~nklin Luce
Bruce Hane
Harold Lucy
Mr s , Erma Hard in
Herbert Luhn
Darrell .l, Here
Henry W. Lunceford
John Harringto n
L1le Lund
Fred For ney Haekell
Dorald Mac!~rlane
George Havae
L. Dale Mai;or
Mrs • .ldela Haynes
Alphonse F, Mailloux
Herbert L. Healy
!'rank A. Halo
Fred W, He i dinger
Bart Manzoni
Mr s , Addie M, Helt
Albert A. Marshal
Hre , Dai sy Henehell
Floyd Martin
Hane Theod ore Hennig
Hr. k Mrs. John O, Haeon
Jeenette Oray Herrick
Arthur G, Maspero
Ed•und c. Hill
Mra . Kay Matloct
Richard George Hill&an
De nning D. Mc.lr t hur
Charles Hogan
'II. L. McBr ide
Robert S . Holden

128

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
MEMORIALS (Continued)

Arthur G. PluMb
Ra lph McClurkin
John o. Stuart
Hrs. Florence McCullough Henry A. Poldn
Clifford P, Stuebgen
Ona Mae P oukkula
J ames M. McCully
Oeoi:-ge Sturm
Percy Pr1aul~
Craig w. McDonald
William John Surges
Step hen H, Pri tchard
Mra. Hazel McGihon
Lester E. Swartz, Sr,
James H. Purcel l
John S. McKenna
Bea tri ce I. Tolley
Matilda E, Raines
William Mendes
Y.rB, Euni ce Tannlund
Cary T, Ray
Mrs, H. E. Mer.kens
Ira H. Taylor
Will1111r. p , Raymond
William G. Merchant
Mrs . Kary Ru th Taylor
Reid
Archibald
el
Migu
Jereme S,
Merle G. Tayloi:Albert v, Roberts
Jack Li onal Milburn
w. J. Teri:-y
Frank B, Roberts
Harry t. !!i lea, Sr.
Cnarles D. Thoma s
William Root
Benjamin L. Mi lle r
Arthur M. Th ompson
Rose
Ruooell
Clarence A. Miller
Mrs, Ida Tnompeon
Thomo s Roo s mann
Mro, Nellie Killer
Mrs. Ruth Thomson
Marion Ru cker
Samuel Miller
Wi lli am Thorn
Capt. John J. Sandbota
Harry Lozier Milli ron
Jes se Thurinan
Capt . Norman o , Sandelin Mrs, Pauline M, Tied~an
C. Hi ke Mitche l l
Arthur H. Sanders
Joh n W, Mitchell
Clarence C, Tilton
Philip J , Schanzer
Mrs, Mary L. Mitcbel l
Ellilie Brawn T ob er
Irving Sch echter
Merl e E. Mitchell
Ted T our tillott
Ferd in and A, Schlafke
Mrs. Ruth Hoieling
Arnold c. Traxler
Winf ield Wagner Schmidt . Henry Turney
Mrs. Bernyce M. Moore
Richar d E, Schreiber
Violet Moore
Dr. Lyle Tuosing
Max E. Schumacner
Willoon C, Moore
Austin D. Vance
Georg e Henry Seaver
William Lavsen Mo ore
Nicholao Vaslas
Darre l l J, SedgvicK
Fra nkl yn Morris
Joseph w. Votov
Henry Bell Se iders Jr. Mr. Wa rren
Harry Morrison
'
Edmo nd Sen!ten
Dr, C, A. Moss
John Fred Warren
c. H, •JiMmie• Shaff er Elmer
John C. Mount
T, Weatherman
Shake
Walter
Arthur
Munday
Mrs. Violet
w. P. Weber
Helen x. Sh anahan
Wil liam Murden
.\rt Welcome
Mary Jane Shattuck
Otto Naeher
Wilbur James Welle
Tyle r Burrell snaw
Fred Neilson
Harry Walter Wernse
Wi lliam C, Sheppard
Mro. Clarice Nelson
Herman Wertach
Jr.
eton,
l
H, A. Shutf
Robert Earl Nelson
John Wbi tcomb
Walt e r Shulman
Annie Neeche
Ruth White
Frank Newman
J. Leslie Whitmoi:-e
Mrs. Anna Katie Siapke
( Baby ) Rene Noble
Leo E. Sievert
Emil M, Wick ert
Chester w. Skag g s
Paul Nordi n, Sr.
Otto Albert Wiehe
Michael Scott Skillern
Paul Nolting
Arthur A. Wildberg
Ge orge R. Sligh
Mr s . C. F. Oak
Mro. Jane Willa r d
c. L. Smith
Mrs. Lillian O'Brien
Com. Jamee Willey
Edvard R, Smith
Bardt Henry Ohlsen
Charles Felix Wi lli&.111s
Mias Gl adys smrthe
Conrad E, Ols on
Mr s . Ve ra Williama
Charl ee Rand o lph Spader Henry Wilson
Mrs. E li zabeth Onstett
Spitser
J.
Jacob
Opdyke
Alva
Lloyd E. Wils on, PQM
Cha rle s Spur
Mr s. E lizabeth Oribi n
Cli fford M. Wingro ve
Henri etta Sp urlock
J ohn Orr
Albert E. Witcher
Dr. Douglao D, Stafford Melvin Wood
Ollie Cyen
Mrs. Sudie Stapleton
Paul D, Parcells
Harold Franc ie Wi:-ight
Dr. J ohn H. Stark
Corvin Maurice Peart
H o~ard Sco tt Wright
George H. Steinmets
s . Peter Petersen
John J. Wuest
Edwin Alfred Stock
Mrs. !M"'8 Peterson
Annie Harriet Wy nnan
Horace c. Stovall
Ka rl A. Peterson
Matthias s. !eager
William Lloyd Strain
Thomas Pettit
George Fred Ptat!enberger Edward K, Strobridge, Jr,

129

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND
'Denotes Honor Roll
No.

1

Lodge

California ................ ..

1962
1961 M•1Ubcrohip ParticiParticipation
196Z
pation
1961
1962
'3'
Contribati011a Me111.bera
%
Membership Centrlbutlona

454

2 Western Star ........... 213

Tehama ...................... 851
242
8 Tuolumne --····------··-·· 277
9 Corinthian .............. .. 454
10 San J ose -------············ 535
12 Yount ......................... 543
13 Nevada ..................... . 177
14 Temple ...................... 250
16 Eureka ....................... 374
17 La Parfaite Union . 114
61
18 Mountain Shade ......
19 San Joa quin ............. 804
20 Washi.~gton .............. 903
21 Hawauan .................. . 407
22 Occidental ................. 615
23 Madison ..................... 318
24 Mariposa .................. . 192
25 G eorgetown .............. 67
26 El Dorado ·······---·-----·· 289
27 Trinity ....................... 176
30 Golden Gate ............ . 554
32 Gold Hill ................... 119
33 Ophir ......................... . 93
35 San Diego ................. 1023
37 Howard ······-··----····· 272
38 Santa Cruz ----············ 562
40 Sacramento .............. 814
41 Martinez .................... 418
42 Los Angeles ............. 1005
43 Hiram ........................ 122
44 Mount Moriah ......... 329
45 Crescent .................... 223
55
46 Texas ........................ .
50 Forbestown ............. . 134
51 Illinoistown .............. 83
55 Suisun ....................... . 304
56 Volcano .................... .. 112
57 Santa Rosa ............... 675
58 Union ........................ . 735
59 Gravel Range ......... . 101
60 Plumas ....................... 188
61 Live Oak .................. . 914
64 Natoma ...................... 358
65 Amador ...................... 94
68 Morning Star ............ 661
70 Enterprise ................. 383
76 Bear Mountain ·---···· 76
78 Cala veras .................. 122
79 Humboldt ................. . 527
80 lone ........................... . 100
81 Yolo ............................ 117
84 Vesper ··········--··----······ 247
3

5 Benicia ······----------·--··

1,24 1.50*
473.63*
3,023.00*
572.00*
347.35
919.00*
1,635.50*
1,135.40*
366.50*
500.00*
837.00*
195.00
81.00
697.00
3,013.70*
1,313.00*
1,009.50
767.00*
474.50*
209.00*
1,323.13*
436.00*
1,314.37*
64.00
84.50
2,922.00*
530.00*
883.63
3,788.75*
944.76*
2,586.01 *
289.70*
850.00*
469.71*
21.00
313.oo•
218.00*
867.25*
343.00*
1,565.00*
1,600.00*
204.00*
391 .66*
2,426.00*
752.35*
120.00
1,430.00•
754.50*
35.50
159.50
1,100.00•
344.00*
241.00*
315.50

28
56
59
51
33
30
41
50
54
38
48
32
25
14
46
39
27
41
49

55

57
36

55

10
25
38
44
28
76
45
35
52
30
56
13
50
56
39
63
33
49
44

55
29
41
26
44

34
9
33
50
74
30
19

1,648.00*
515.75*
3,531.50*
767.00*
581.02*
1,100.00•
1,909.42*
1,358.44•
607.50*
388.50
751.00*
229.00*
174.50*
935.46
3,413.50*
1,592.69*
1,473.00*
661.50•
562.oo•
186.75•
1,075.00*
396.00*
1,260.50*
241.00*
165.00
3,325.73•
559.00*
703.50
3,199.54•
936.07•
3,025.16*
289.00*
838.50•
547.oo•
115.oo•
383.25*
185.00*
569.25
379.00*
1,658.75*
2,000.00•
120.00
497.50*
2,785.71 *
1,096.79*
207.50*
1,407.00*
816.00*
85.00
265.oo•
1,081.00*
362.00*
430.00*
111.00

188 41
41
87
63
532
156 64
114 41
142 31
44
234
307 57
120 68
29
73
135 36
32
37
62 100
133 17
51
457
59
240
36
219
120 38
112 58
33 49
148 51
37
65
52
290
41
49
30
28
43
443
100 37
150 27
63
514
195 47
380 38
61
74
114 35
100 45
19 35
37
50
48
40
102 34
59
67
39
260
391 53
29
29
136 72
333 36
198 55
50
47
177 27
142 37
16
12
50
61
174 33
78 78
86 73
8
20

130

No.

87
89
91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187

Lodire

1962
1961 Memberohip PartidParticipation
1962
pation
1961
196%
9'
Contribatlon1 Me mben
%
Membeuhlp Contrib•tinna

Naval ····-----·· ·-············ 1161
Rose's Bar -·······-·-·-··· 60
North Star ---············· 81
St. Helena ·--··········--·· 133
Henry Clay ······--······· 79
Hornitos ·---········· ...... 107
Yosemite ................... 508
Clay ................. ....... ... 109
Oroville ·-·-·········----·-·· 386
Lexington -···········-···- 644
Arcata ....................... 352
Pajaro ·--···-···-········· ··· 425
Chico ... .. .. ........... .... 604
64
Summit ···--··-·············
Eden ...................... . . 453
Concord ····-···········-··-· 383
Fidelity ···--············ ···· 569
Alamo ····-··---············-- 458
Sotoyome ·········-····-··· 246
Table Mountain ..... 318
L afayette .................. 238
Hermann .................. 172
Visalia ····················--- 575
Nicolaus ............. .. ... 129
Woodbridg e ............. 199
97
Sincerity ·-·-····-····-···-·
Vacaville ···-··········-·-·· 285
99
Valley ······--···········--·-Pacific ........ ...... .. ..... 542
Crockett --·················· 472
Curtis ·-········-·········---·- 96
Grafton···· ···--···-···-·--·· 114
Franklin ·········-··--··--·- 148
Orienta l -·---···--·······--··· 323
Vitruvius ··--··--····-----·· 131
Abell .......................... 359
Eel River --··-·-·-·····--·-· 261
Lassen --·--··--··-··-··· -·· 243
Molino ....................... 169
Woodland ------····------· 319
K eystone --·-··············· 40
Harmony ·-·············---- 29
Excelsior ·-·-········--···-· 414
Alameda ................... 278
Redwood City ····--·-·· 677
Mission ---··-·--··-·-··-·--·· 592
Elk Grove ·-·····-····-···· 145
Drytown --------·······--·- 65
Antioch ·--····-----····--·- ·· 415
Phoenix ·----··-·---·-·-····· 766
Mendocino --··-···---·--·· 115
Petaluma ................... 334
R ussian River ··-····-·- 122
83
Arbuckle ·---······-··-··-·Clear L ake ···--·-··-·-···- 149
Sierra Valley --------·- 33
83
Claiborne --·······-····--Evening Star ·······-··-· 72
K eith ····-----··-··········--· 193

3,356.50*
61.00
110.00
286.50*
290.50•
120.00
1,285.50•
415.oo•
855.75•
1,411.13•
1,070.50*
749.50
1,371 .20•
50.00
941.25*
912.50•
1,655.50•
772.15
362.00
680.25•
178.25
400.00*
1,509.16*
34.00
525.00•
282.oo•
600.75•
124.00
108.50
766.50
146.00
176.00
1,051.0o•
1,556.50*
271.00•
650.50
766.oo•
523.50•
180.75
639.oo•
39.00
58.oo•
1,055.50*
607.50*
2,174.oo•
1,632.50*
520.00•
171.00*
675.71
2,096.75*
110.00
686.00*
289.50•
219.50*
144.00
61.00
109.50
208.50•
410.00*

57
26
30
54
69
24
35
64
65
35
37
37
54
22
28
42
37
30
35
68
14
57
45
11
63
54
35
16
2
26
63
23
61
53
39
41
46
46
27
46
21
100
38
31
59
41
49
52
34
50
19
34
54
48
20
26
28
56
52

131

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

3,651.52*
122.00•
254.oo•
318.50•
324.50*
228.50*
1,031.50•
380.00•
818.50*
1,408.09*
1,207.00*
875.25•
1,421.50•
112.50•
1,116.51 •
1,047.60•
1,865.44•
925.65*
654.75*
695.00•
227.50
527.79•
1,566.55•
275.25•
594.00•
300.00•
608.00•
99.00
362.00
828.00
89.00
346. 00•
779.oo•
1,481.50•
402.00•
743.50•
824.oo•
625.50*
250.25
671.75•
46.00
67.oo•
956. 25*
618.50*
1,668.50•
1,330.50*
407.50*
213.30*
747.50
1,866.90*
125.00
669.00*
333.00•
274.00•
246.00

651
26
52
67
53
38
153
70
257
227
145
175
470
37
150
183
213
177
120
179
38
123
289
51
133
58
112
19
41
132
20
47
126
136
64
148
126
124
46
150
10
28
152
77
296
211
52
39
172
361
20
137
67
28
45

56
43
64
50
67
36
30
64
67
35
41
41
78
58
33
48
37
39
49
56
16
72
50
40
67
60
39
19
8
28
21
41
85
42
49
41
48
51
27
47
25
97
37
28
44
36
36
60
41
47
17
41
55
34
30

117.00
221.50*
414.50*

16
44
94

19
61
49

No.

Loda•

1961 Membenhip Partici1962
pation
1961
196%
Contribution•
%
Contribution•
Membenhlp

188 Oakland ----··-······-·-·-·- 773
190 Northern Light -··-·-· 116
191 Marin-··········-···········--· 540
192 Santa Barbara ......... 365
90
193 Ferndale ···-············-···
194 Mountain Vi ew -·-··-- 394
195 Buckeye ···--·--·········-·· 153
196 San Simeon ----·······-·- 94
198 Wilmingto n ····-·------·- 663
199 Hartley ...................... 241
200 Tr uckee -·-·-···-·······-···-· 141
201 Silveyville ·---······-·---· 154
202 Pentalpha ----·-··-·-··-·-· 444
95
203 Confidence ····-····-----··
204 Salinas ········---·--·-··· -·-- 625
205 Olivet ·-·-·-··················- 144
206 Stanislaus ---···-····-···-· 675
207 Anaheim ··--·······-······-· 498
208 Rio Vista -············ ···-·-· 184
209 King David's -···-··-·---· 416
210 Friendship ·---·········---· 746
211 San Benito ··-·---······--· 183
212 So. San Francisco .. 224
214 San Buenavent ura . 441
215 Oak Grove ·-·····--·-·--·-· 553
216 Doric ·····-·------·-·······-··· 426
217 Monterey ·--·······-----·- 328
218 Mosaic ··········-··--·······- 273
219 Speranza Italiana ____ 234
220 Downey -···------·····-·-- ·· 948
221 Inyo ·-·-·-·-·-· ·-- ··········--·· 161
222 Roseville ................... 477
224 Bakersfield '............... 767
225 B rooklyn ·---··-··-------·-· 481
226 Sa n Mateo ···-·--·-·--··-· 638
228 Athens ·-·-··---·--·-········· 197
229 Solano ·-·-·--···· ... .. ...... 551
230 North Butte ·--···-··----- 245
231 Covelo ................ ........ 73
232 J anesville -····-····---·--- 166
233 Calistoga·· ·-··-·--··--······ 126
234 Hope.. ·-··- -····-····---··--·· 108
68
235 Surprise Valley ......
236 Hills Ferry ··--· --·---·--·· 159
237 Guadalupe -----···-·-·---· 227
240 Colusa ······--··············-- 153
241 Santa Ana --····-·-···---·· 586
242 Magnolia ---·-----··-··----- 491
243 Eucalyptus -······---·--··· 539
244 Alcatraz ··-----·-··-·-···---· 546
245 L aurel ········---·--·---····-· 254
246 Pomona·----·-·------·--·--·· 436
247 Fresno ····---··--··········--· 727
248 Alturas ·--··-··-----··---·-·· 187
250 Adin ---···--··--·--····----··-·· 100
253 Landmark --·-·-···-·····-· 111
254 Reading ·····----·-····----·· 285
255 Welcome -·····-·-···-······ 216

1,094.50*
118.00
1,318.70*
949.29•
393.50•
1,414.40*
454.72•
300.oo•
1,686.50•
437.00
958.50•
281.15
1,550.00•
244.00*
659.50
168.50
1,320.50°
1,241.68•
531.50*
852.09*
1,348.78
472.50•
676.75*
1,182.50•
2,316.00*
791.50
644.00*
540.oo•
835.00*
3,937.87•
375.50•
1,036.50•
1,880.00•
951.00
1,775.00*
429.oo•
919.80
500.oo•
10.00
340.00•
280.50*
165.50
33.00
343.25*
780.oo•
239.50
1,483.22•
1,870.0o•
1,253.00•
1,120.00•
561.00•
992.68•
2,378.72•
458.00•
101.50
224.50*
876.00•
314.75

18
25
46
61
100
51
66
77
34
26
100
38
39
62
31
44
40
32
63
50
30
59
47
43
34
33
40
43
50
56
47
39
34
25
48
36
26
71
6
52
50
38
14
45
48
28
37
64
44
44
41
49
50
100
24
91
47
34

1962
Participa tion
%
Me1nbera

1,625.00•
289.50*
2,089.25*
892.29•
168.50
1,523.oo•
454.72•
246.50°
1,774.04•
424.50
611.15•
321.00•
1,713.34*
256.oo•
1,452.32•
308.00•
1,372.00*
1,442.29•
506.50•
1,019.94•
1,759.05•
557.oo•
661.25•
1,206.11 •
1,695.50*
855.00•
1,002.00•
569.oo•
1,008.00*
3,350.lO•
373.50*
1,014.50•
1,809.65•
1,070.50•
1,787.oo•
520.00•
956.00
502.25•
35.00
344.65•
219.50
230.oo•
49.00
432.75•
922.78°
164.00
1,784.77•
1,960.25•
1,476.23*
1,112.00•
713.00•
1,109.41 •
2,194.oo•

200
51
264
259
39
212
104
49
269
77
74
73
188
57
320
90
228
166
115
209
220
128
113
195
162
145
218
108
127
458
81
164
239
136
288
86
154
164
12
80
56
60
13
80
122
28
199
287
364
186
114
226
378

26
44
49
71
43
54
68
52
41
32
52
47
42
60
51
63
34
33
63
50
29
70
50
44
29
34
66
40
54
48
50
34
31
28
45
44
28
67
16
48
44
56
19
50
54
18
34
58
68
34
45
52
52

84.00
230.00•
1,509.SO•
274.00

21
93
200
75

21
84
70
35

132

No.

256
258
259
260
261
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322

Lodce

1962
1961 Membenhlp Partid1962
pation
1961
1962
Participation
Contribution• Membero
Membenhl' Contrlbutlon1
%
%

Lodi ....................... ..... 398
Penrhyn ···-··············· 145
Evergreen .................. 733
King Solomon's ....... 412
92
Tuscan
Lompoc :::::::::::::::::::::: 249
Hesperian .................. 421
Orland ....................... 160
North East ................
56
Galt ............................ 87
Durant ....................... 413
Olive Branch ........... 312
Snow Mountain ....... 47
Pasadena ................... 535
Anchor ....................... 640
Arroyo ....................... 176
Oakdale ..................... 210
Selma ......................... 235
So. California ........... 435
Hanford ..................... 224
Madera ....................... 282
Mount Shasta .......... 159
69
Callayomi .................
South West ................ 582
San Miguel ···········-·· 80
Paso Robles .............. 300
Winnedumah ........... 241
Maxwell .................... 65
Elsinore ..................... 136
East Gate ................... 665
Santa Paula ............. 421
Los Gatos .................. 404
Orange Grove .......... 348
Traver ....................... . 149
Mt. Jackson .............. 117
Silver Gate ............... 1259
Dunsmuir .............. .... 257
Liberty........................ 385
Redlands ................... 509
Ontario ....................... 539
Santa Lucia .............. 164
Porterville ···-··········· 511
Reedley ...................... 160
Azusa .......................... 348
Ashlar ....................... . 337
Santa Monica ........... 376
Monrovia ................... 339
Delano ....................... 255
Sisson ......................... 109
Los Banos ................., 146
Tehach!.fi ................. 200
Temesc ................... 282
Norwalk •................... 446
Sanger ........................ 340
Fallbrook ................. _ 174
92
Emmanuel ···············Hollenbeck ·······--····· 751
South Gate ............... 506
Alisal ......................... 178
Alhambra .................. 638

563.00
152.00
1,631.41 •
913.00*
100.00
437.00
4,254.00*
346.50*
5.00
210.00•
1,278.67•
638.oo•
46.00
2,067.41 *
2,576.94•
422.11•
422.00•
794.00*
2,278.37*
471.oo•
661.00*
441.00*
32.00
1,053.37
160.00•
673.00*
559.39*
100.00
468.14*
2,529.98•
1,074.25*
865.oo•
782.75*
173.00
232.00•
3,094.24*
549.50*
832.oo•
1,647.98*
1,on.00•
372.00*
1,089.50•
161.00
739.89*
563.90
1,487.15•
833.88•
1,016.50*
83.00
302.25*
449.50*
336.50
883.15*
101.00•
88.00
199.00*
3,103.86•
2,454.23*
358.oo•
1,666.64*

133

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

30
33
28
36
33
41
52
44
2

52
41
35
20
46
76
49
46
52
44
33
46
63
10
35
53
58
76
35
59
43
41
47
45
15
48
36
42
46
41
34
43
30
13
42
40
32
66
70
15
65
46
21
39
47
12
62
40
62
100
46

803.75•
300.00•
1,793.47*
844.00*
166.00
505.25*
1,749.50•
356.25*
2.00
335.oo•
977.oo•
638.00*
63.00
2,407.12*
2,012.60•
399.50•
631.75•
714.oo•
2,421.93•
407.00
654.50•
396.00•
74.00
1,173.50*
112.00
652.00•
570.09*
130.00·
365.00*
2,866.76*
1,170.22*
960.50*
1,056.67*
371 .50*
327.50*
4,083.17*
412.50
900.50*
2,168.75*
1,149.50*
344.50•
1,038.50•
298.50
812.97*
1,171.26*
2,044.39*
630.88
1,425.00*
119.50
352.75•
213.00
775.25*
1,195.73*
434.00
20.00
153.00
2,300.05*
2,035.70*
391.00*
1,936.55*

135
34
58
40
213
29
123
30
34
37
97
39
204
48
82
51
1
2
58
67
130
31
105
34
18
38
276
52
340
53
85
48
211 100
122
52
180
41
57
25
119
42
97
61
22
32
244
42
38
48
164
55
177
73
37
57
58
43
313
47
201
48
202
50
196
56
52
35
59
50
415
33
93
36
164
43
267
52
169
31
65
40
237
46
26
42
136
39
54
183
193
51
114
34
232
91
19
17
110
75
31
61
132
47
238
53
34
114
2
3
50
54
226 30
248
49
94
168
52
334

,,.. Whittier ....................
LMp

323
324
325
326
327
328

ltU
11'1 Mmtbenbl11 Partld19U
patlou
Partldpatio•
1961
Contrlbutloq
Contrtbutlon1
Membenhlp
"'
Kemw1

uu

814

Corona ....................... 443
Consuelo .................... 356
Needles .................... 343
Long Beach .............. 625
Redondo .................... 756
France ...• 119
329 Vallee de.....................
194
330 Kilauea
331 Pacific Grove ........... 302
332 San Pedro·-·············- 517
333 Alta ·······-··············-··· 140
334 Covina ....................... 510
335 West Gate ................. 1215
336 Fruitvale ................... 782
337 Carquinez .................. 184
338 San J acinto ............... 116
339 Fullerton ................... 398
341 Oxnard ...................... 451
343 San Fernando .......... 753
344 Starr King ···········-··· 515
345 Brentwood ................ 151
346 Palo Alto ................... 770
347 McKinley .................. 498
348 San Bernardino ...... 957
349 Sequoia ···············-···- 966
351 Palestine ................... 475
352 Sunset ........................ 301
353 Pinole ....................... . 182
354 Presidio ···············-···· 432
355 Hollywood ................ 1244
356 Mill Valley ............... 442
357 Buena Park .......•..... 365
358 Golden State ·······-·· 627
359 Loyalton ···-··············· 93
360 San FranciscoVictory .................. 494
361 Fort Bragg ............... 156
362 Charity ....................... 179
363 Berkeley .................... 597
365 Willits ........................ 151
366 Las Palmas ............... 1067
367 South Pasadena ....... 592
368 Unity .......................... 584
369 Ocean Park ............... 516
370 Amity························· 373
371 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ............... 691
372 Gardena ..................... 512
373 West Los Angeles ..... 492
374 Jewel ························- 197
375 Richmond ·······-········· 447
376 Francis Drake .......... 441
377 Artesia ....................... 246
378 Mizpah ....................... 374
379 Filhnore .................... 236
380 Huntington Beach.... 340
381 Oceanside .................. 535
382 Highland Park -·--·· 595

""

27
48
30
100
46
24
100
62
34
36
55
73
39
57
47
47
27
41
59
53
48
53
42
32
38
36
63
36
37
50
36
48
33

1,062.42
1,378.03*
664.95
15.64
3,062.94*
2,000.76•
451.75*
658.50*
1,795.86*
1,162.20*
428.50•
1,658.38*
2,711.29*
1,661.50•
467.50•
248.00·
1,052.34•
916.00·
2,012.64*
1,563.00*
348.oo•
2,429.50*
1,407.25•
2,055.29*
3,019.75*
1,457.02*
1,052.76*
627.95
1,467.50*
4,405.88*
1,418.00·
860.38*
3,062.17*
14.00

139
203
133
1
366
294
92
116
163
173
88
232
346
358
84
58
164
130
477
297
72
442
200
296
393
257
170
105
171
497
194
140
281
3

17
46
37
.3
59
39
77
60
54
33
63
45
28
46
46
50
41
29
63
58
48
57
40
31
41
54
56
58
40
40
44
38
45
3

666.00
67.00
436.50*
609.00
95.50
2,182.73•
1,888.23*
1,978.45•
1,533.23.
826.oo•

54
11
35
17
14
34
41
64
43
35

1,012.50*
119.76
365.75*
1,067.50
143.00
1,725.75
2,056.05*
2,320.18•
1,630.94•
809.50•

219
24
55
146
22
200
275
380
272
149

44
15
31
24
15
19
46
65
53
40

1,464.50*
1,438.51 *
1,754.36•
401.00·
729.50
969.51*
580.85*
2,037.39•
490.00*
442.79
1,345.41*
1,303.31 *

41
38
40
44
26
35
46
60
38
33
48
34

1,503.50*
1,673.57*
1,962.19*
567.83*
1,196.50•
1,127.oo•
546.92*
1,967.54*
913.59*
100.00•
1,413.48*
1,427.86*

253
232
209
111
238
152
102
191
133
147
267
211

37
45
42
56
53
34
41
51
56
43
50
35

1,628.12•
2,090.88*
591.50
2,036.76*
2,378.53*
1,792.44*
362.00•
666.40*
122.50•
1,042.50*
333.oo•
2,270.94•
3,135.18*
1,672.16•
405.oo•
245.00·
870.53*
1,123.00*
1,822.76•
6,406.00*
302.00•
2,296.50*
1,447.25*
2,216.59•
2,903.10*
1,123.50•
1,186.67*
307.53
1,184.50*
4,515.96*
1,233.oo•
829.67*
1,566.63*

·········-····

134

No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
lKl Membenhlp PartlcilHll
1982
patlon
1961
1982
Partldpation
CGntrib11tlou Bemben
%
Membenhtp CGntrlb11tlou

Locls•

383 Orosi ···············--········· 148
384 El Centro ·······-·········- 505
385 Dinuba ....................... 291
387 Coalinga .................... 386
388 Parnassus .................. 692
389 Palos Verdes ...........• 695
390 Imperial .................... 142
391 East Belt .................... 122
392 West Lake ................ 743
393 Balder ........................ . 484
394 University ................ 508
395 Turlock·······-··········-· 424
396 Apollo ·······-······-······- 440
397 Rising Light ···-··-··- 976
399 Fraternity ···············- 425
400 Burlingame ............... 663
401 Bay View ...- .............. 683
402 Brawlei ..................... 245
403 Yerba uena ............ 884
404 Glendora ................... 284
405 Moneta ...................... 570
406 Burbank···········-······· 855
407 La Mesa .................... 644
408 Sierra Madre ............ 201
409 Honolulu ................... 408
410 Charter Rock ........... 272
411 Perris ···········------····- 152
412 Calexico .................... 140
414 Arlington .................. 292
415 Silver Trowel .......... 424
416 Lindsay ..................... 214
417 Clovis·······················- 570
418 Elysian ....................... 411
419 Upland ···-······-·········· 282
420 Kerman ..................... 147
421 Inglewood ···········-···· 766
422 Eagle Rock ................ 514
423 York ........................... 356
424 Exeter ........................ 233
425 Holtville .................... 154
426 Midway .................... 466
427 Chino Valley ............ 232
428 San Dimas ................ 176
429 Pittsburgh ···········-··· 351
430 McCloud ···········-····· 104
431 Alpha ..................................
517
433 Hammonton .............. 109
434 Maricopa .................. 198
435 Fairmount ................ 417
436 Claremont ......................... 192
437 Lancaster .................. 567
439 Tyrian ........................ 229
440 Standard
..................... 345
441 Coronado ·············-··· 397
442 Blackmer ···-············· 1171
443 Schofield .................... 313
444 Carpinteria ···---......... 139
445 Wilshire ···-·-·-····--· 489
446 La Puente -···-····-··· 251

_.

343.50•
1,130.58•
719.oo•
1,031.35•
1,730.75•
1,636.oo•
303.oo•
242.oo•
2,087.83•
1,976.25•
1,393.68•
867.oo•
989.25•
3,826.46•
959.20•
1,755.88•
558.60
828.11 •
2,110.50•
676.oo•
1,706.14•
1,809.62•
1,436.46•
506.34•
1,136.65•
824.50•
233.00
308.oo•
875.oo•
1,056.11•
627.oo•
1,905.66•
911.24•
582.30•
358.50•
2,614.73•
1,765.22•
313.02
584.oo•
458.29•
893.44
376.00
366.50•
277.00
294.oo•
1,193.20•
184.00
664.oo•
1,421.29•
398.25•
2,020.73•
37.00
342.65
949.oo•
3,142.31•
627.25•
360.00•
3,172.72•
369.00

48
39
49
37
40
31
43
45
49
43
31
45
38
57
36
37
12
56
25
56
46
51
42
36
44
36
38
24
44
31
61
44
30
46
56
43
54
14
35
38
37
30
57
17
53
36
32
46
49
47
61
4
40
37
40
46
62
60
21

135

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"

323.50•
1,231.54•
587.oo•
1,174.75•
1,587.50•
1,328.38
284.50•
259.25•
2,172.54•
1,521.50•
1,854.63•
1,200.25•
1,044.50•
2,026.72•
1,065.50•
1,633.38•
649.25
821.65•
1,814.50•
461.01
1,833.30•
2,067.29•
1,761.30•
698.81•
1,012.50•
645.00•
269.82
325.45•
910.50•
1,318.09•
550.00•
2,218.50•
1,124.91•
654.81•
337.50•
2,893.27•
1,677.87•
796.94•
542.50•
494.79•
983.37•
289.00
481.11 •
1,144.oo•
286.50•
1,228.50•
273.oo•
460.39•
1,264.50•
459.75•
1,841.63•

63
193
93
157
252
162
65
57
384
222
180
239
184
236
182
202
121
139
139
104
288
606
336
105
159
104
51
42
118
153
117
305
151
124
74
350
291
95
89
70
194
63
91
164
59
179
54
69
241
76
345

43
38
32
41
36
23
46
47
52
46
35
56
42
24
43
30
18
57
16
37
51
71
52
52
39
38
34
30
40
36
55
54
37
44
50
46
57
27
38
45
42
27
52
47
57
35
50
35
58
36
61

510.30
1,043.50•
3,169.09•
678.25•
424.oo•
2,405.24•
677.63•

63
141
587
126
84
241
95

18
36
50
40
60
49
38

.................._.

Ne.
~'1

Ledp

Torrance .................... 602

448 Mount Diablo ..........
~

450
451
452

454
465

46'1
458
459
460
461

462
463
464
465
466

46'1
468
469
4'10
4'11
4'12
4'13
4'15
4'16

4'1'1
4'18
4'19
480
481
482

483
484

485
486
'8'1
488
489

'90

tel

02
493
494
495

49'1
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506

1961 Membenhtp Partid1962
1962
patlon
Participation
1961
1962
CGntrib11tiom Memben %
%
Membenblp CGntrlbatlon1

464
Park -·--··················· 409
Van Nuys .................. 1153
Montebello .............. 732
San Pasqual .............. 576
Crocker --················· 616
Golden West ............ 538
Ramona ···········-········ 551
Henry S. Orme ........ 593
Riverbank ................ 152
Mount Oso ···-··········· 360
Argonaut --··············· 370
Paul Revere -·········· 605
Morgan Hill .............. 162
Alta Vista ................ 238
Center··-·······--·····--·--· 548
Libertas ........................ 712
Culver City .............. 426
Rockridge ................ 428
Yorba Linda ............ 191
Lincoln ...................... 345
Delta--······················· 506
Maui .......................................... 202
175
=ca··::::::::::::::·.::::: 436
Coachella .................. 251
Temblor .....- ............. 145
Thousand Oaks ........ 506·
Golden Rule ............ 722
Fellowship ................ 291
Mt. Davidson ............ 364
Clarence F. Smith.... 337
Bell ...................................... 807
Albert Pike .............. 238
Chowchilla ................ 172
Caledonia .................. 555
Vallejo
................................ 393
Patterson .................. 174
East Bay_................ 323
Corcoran_ ................ 139
Woodstock ................ 425
Garvanza -··············· 315
Atascadero ................ 151
Acom --·--·--······------ 651
Lebanon .................... 424
Fremont .................... 534
Stockton~·················· 195
Capital City .............. 643
Roosevelt •................. 207
Westwood ........................... 263
Harbor ........................................ 598
Point-······················ 328
Seaside ...................... 561
Silver Cord .............. 583
Mount Olive ............ 933

-

1,213.18•
1,947.52•
916.50•
3,722.32•
1,727.56•
2,394.96•
1,626.00·
1,823.50•
1,847.24•
2,171.50•
203.32
712.00•
870.59•
1,984.33•
269.50
2,005.50•
1,253.50•
1,512.75•
1,957.83•
753.00
417.75•
1,030.80•
1,135.69•
851.00·
381.25•
1,450.43•
746.25•
460.00•
1,339.50•
1,978.50•
653.50•
1,165.50•
1,009.58•
2,652.46•
512.51•
222.00
724.08
882.20•
244.50
269.00
245.50
648.58
1,060.31•
491.66•
1,348.62•
880.00
1,565.87•
355.50
1,468.25•
187.74
634.oo•
2,275.35•
881.00•
1,795.40•
1,233.81•
3,428.05•

32
58
38
51
49
56
49
31
44
47
32
37
47
54
40
88
49
34
52
35
75
51
32
100
42
38
59
55
37
51
31
52
40
46
29
28
33
39
31
12
66
31
40
50
40
40
53
34
52
17
59
43
47
51
41
47

1,502.18•
2,091.30•
991.00·
4,101.33•
1,914.33•
2,435.54•
1,579.oo•
2,619.oo•
1,903.15•
1,879.38•
171.75
494.00
744.60•
2,162.00•
350.69•
1,246.46•
1,240.50•
2,184.25•
2,071.12•
890.00•
403.50•
1,113.05•
1,160.10•
443.oo•
193.00
1,584.43•
639.75•
506.32•
1,246.51•
1,908.50•
688.50•
1,175.50•
1,096.63•
3,280.86•
556.08•
614.oo•
1,270.23•
765.00
277.50
615.00

193
267
182
636
274
338
292
254
290
253
29
80
191
339
64
127
234
262
372
146
72
183
181
120
31
212
120
56
191
353
109
190
142
413
74
107
303
134
57
70

32
58
44
55
37
59
47
47
53
43

663.75
1,205.21•
501.66•
1,420.64•
856.oo•
1,421.95•
353.00
1,811.25•
522.00•
580.00•
1,776.14•
1,037.27•
1,899.82•
1,870.51•
3,091.80•

130
138
84
276
302
248
65
360
78
133
239
150
251
299
361

31
44
56
42
71
46
33
56
38
51
40
46

...................

19
22
52
56
40
53
43
37
87
34
38
53
36
59
18
49
48
39
38
50
37
52
42
51
31
62
55
34
33
22

45
51
39

136

No.

507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566

Lodse

19'1 M. .benhlp Parttcl 1912
1862
patlon
1961
19U
Parttd~tte.
Contrlb atlon. Hembe ra 1'
%
Membe rahlp Contrlb atlona

El Segun do .............. 508
Joppa ........................ 100
Benja min Frank lin.. 327
Cupe rtino .................. 240
Sunn yvale ................ 454
Palm s ........................ 509
Cahu enga .................. 548
Argo nne .................... 337
Verm ont Squar e ...... 458
Taft .......... .................. 312
Moun t Verno n ........ 203
La Jolla .................... 328
Eucli d ........................ 377
Ionic .......................... 1178
Piedm ont .................. 245
Sunri se ...................... 295
Bellfl ower ................ 647
Catal ina Island ........ 138
Georg e Wash ingto n 431
Bay City .......... ........ 430
Cove nant .................. 265
Beve rly Hills ............ 564
Loya lty ...................... 662
Sun Garde n .............. 542
Alex andri a................ 180
Smyr na ...................... 207
Azure ........................ 385
Fores t Hill ................ 197
Alexa nder Hami lton 302
Seal R ock... ............... 196
Utopia ........................ 648
Ascot .......................... 346
Belve dere .................. 198
Quee n Beach ............ 191
Henr y M. Steph ens.. 320
North Holly wood .... 1064
Signa l ........................ 546
Glend ale .................... 823
Jonat han .................. 192
San Gabriel .............. 591
Arcad ia ...................... 601
Triangle .................... 339
Justic e ...................... 394
Seapo rt ...................... 222
Lakes hor e ................ 270
Semp er Viren s ...... 351
Educ ator .................. 387
White Pine ................ 103
Fairf ax .................... .. 486
Herm osa .................... 447
Point Firmi n ............ 343
Craft smen ................ 368
Plym outh .................. 399
East San Diego ........ 866
Pyram id .................... 323
South Park .............. 408
Footh ill .................... 1014
West Adam s .......... .. 346
Jame s A. Garfield.... 235

1,116.47•
222.50•
863.03*
476.oo•
417.00
1,239 .07'
1,873.04•
431.00
1,411.32•
995.38*
448.00•
399.00
946.89 •
2,432.oo•
977.00*
980.88•
1,629.51 •
454.37•
1,069.21 *
919.25*
557.76 •
1,437.89•
2,040.19•
1,028. 00
428.oo •
200.00
1,421.31 •
581.50 '
122.32
533.5 0'
2,314.88'
894.90•
431.4 0'
529.75 '
876.oo•
3,647.13•
1,224.42*
2,480.09*
402.25*
2,002.39*
1,850.61 *
1,179.80•
932.50 •
468.50 •
562.80 •
781.0o•
555.86
205.oo •
996.50 '
1,003. n •
1,149.38*
788.9 0'
837.50 •
1,730.58•
636.61 •
1,251.73•
2,025.29•
995.08*
1,328.00•

40
99
27
33
24
43
96
16
45
56
49
17
32
39
47
44
31
67
41
43
38
45
51
28
49
17
60
88
2
49
40
29
41
49
28
45
35
93
51
52
48
73
51
61
58
46
28
54
44
28
51
31
33
41
31
44
40
34
48

137

GRAND LODGE OF CALIP ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

1,225.63• .
273.9 6'
936.16*
477.00
462.00
1,214.69•
2,495.94•
305.00
1,242.22*
1,607.83•
514.00 •
559. 75
1,073.30•
2,400.00•
818.50•
898.06•
2,062.36'
341.18•
1,071.00•
1,105.00•
550.72 •
1,392.60•
2,451.50•
1,195.50•
123.50
449.50*
1,734.72•
619.50 •
1,245.34•
598.oo •
1,747.52•
1,193.16*
494.45*
834.16 •
601.50
4,354.39*
1,669.80*
3,090.44•
417.25*
2,177.17•
2,351.89•
1,282.64*
1,098.34*
459.50 •
750.50•
840.10•
788.oo •
210.00 •
1,120.80*
895.00 •
1,122.35'
960.03•
976.50*
1,820.50'
848.88 *
1,153.15'
2,037.25*
850.79•
1,308.79*

196
73
99
95
135
237
437
41
201
162
80
85
121
425
89
130
241
85
195
236
84
192
518
310
37
67
274
89
207
107
235
147
63
109
58
551
220
748
99
335
315
258
199
136
181
164
112
55
216
124
165
145
137
354
119
142
526
85
111

39
73
30
40
30
47
80
12
44
52
39
26
32
36
36
44
37
62
45
55
32
34
78
57
21
32
71
45
69
55
36
42
32
57
18
52
40
91
52
57
52
76
51
61
67
47
29
53
44
28
48
39
34
41
37
35
52
25
47

Loda'•

1112
1961 Membe rahip Partici Partici pation
1''2
patlon
1961
1912
%
Contrlb ationa Membe ra
o/o
Membe rahlp Contrlb atlon1

....

442

uvv

Chate au Thie~ry ...... 312
Milita ry Servi ce······ 233
Franc is K. Shatt uck 354
Jame s Madis on ........ 76

ffi PSeara~c~~~!v~d··:::::: 419
569
570
571
572
573
574
575

360

Hs.1W~H:~cite"tt"·:::::::::: 610
205
~r·~~~~\ii"iieY-· ·:::: 551

~i~ Sunn yside ................ 416
50 1

Progressive .............. 651
Warren G. Hardi ng..
123
Santa Maria ............ 409
··········
··-·······
ity
Secur
320
Rialto ·········· ·············· 351
320
....
..........
..........
o
Wasc
584 Hardi ng ···················· 349
585 MandchesGter ·············· 420
586 Gar en rove·········· 408
587 Valle y F orge ············ 442
588 El Seren o ·················· 124
589 Kaua i ···-··················· 342
·········· 168
590 Compass ··········
591 Escal on .................... .. 364
592 Tujun ga .................... 539
593 All States .................. 932

578
579
580
581
582
583

4
59

~:~~der.<:i.Beii:::: 218

Guard ian b.................. 106 ~~
g8g
598 Pearl Har or ··········

-······· ~~f
599 Carm elita ·········
600 Lynw ood .................. 124
601 Grizz ly ······················ 258
602 Melrose ......................
606043 Dimo nd····· ················· ~~~
Jubileell ·p·······k···-········· 409
ar ·········· 3 9
605 Glass e
o
607 Sojou rner ···-····· ·-·····
608 Grana da ···················· 819
505
609 Provi dent· ··············-· 2 3
8
··-·····
··········
610 Elmh urst
611 Cano ga .................... .. 445
612 Temp le City ............ 567
458
613 Three Pillars ············ 410
t
h
L
arc mon ················
614
661156 HRemeDt.·1·1····················· ~~~
. E. o ey ··············
617 Bsig hBleard ·················· ~~~
out . an ··················
618
662190 NeptunLoe ···················· ~i~
ma ·········-···
Pomt
621 The Garde ns ............ 528
382
622 Atwa ter ···················· 1136
ah ····················
623 M
enor
215
········ 733
ude ··········..........
624 Fortitles
Mesa
625 Ange

862.65
1,000.00•
401.25 •
636.oo
360.75
825.oo•
179.90•
1,936.92•
446.oo•
1,138.29·
1,139_73•
1,508.27•
1,625.24•
.oo•
385
934.48•
1. 97 •
68 2.00
37
656.01 •
763.9 3'
949.50•
1 •
1,168. 5
56•
1,377.
568.0 0'
_7 5•
785
85.50
_ •
778
42•
1,423.05
2,462.72•
1,735. 11 •

~'.~~~:bb:6•

u~~:~_6••

50
268.21
•
552_ •
639 59
923.54•
958.58 •
_ •
756 66
2,445.46•
1,407._43••
597 00
1,173.38•
2,211.31•
1,056.75'
1,396.oo•
746.2 5'
788.69 •
346.50 •
1,065.59'
1. •
65 50
1,634.25'
1,213.29'
1,288.37'
5,751.05•
211.00
1,503.56•

21
43
27
31
30
27
38
53
74
36
43
4705
69
45
39
27
28
32
47
55
o
558
65
16
48
39
45
62

~~

59
73
87
25
52
35
54
28
40
48
44
8
352
46
38
67
64
33
32
34
36
2
9
598
5
26
o
9

904.oo•
1,275.00•
603.50 •
624.00
574.2 5'
922.00 •
196.70 '
2,242.74•
455.50 •
1,518. 50'
1,216 .1r
l ,~91g5;

·
636.25 •
905.5 1'
672.56•
912.90•
995.45•
790.25•
1,475.09•
1157 09•
1' 329.92•
. •
' 491.25
860.5 0'
154.50
923.08•
1,544.50•
2,884.70•
1,612. 16·
,

~~:
~:~~~:78•

1 634
2:547:59•
304.oo•
681.51 •
857.8 7'
1,065.08•
1,225.35•
821.45 '
1 748 33•
1'512"00•
. •
' 571.50
1 790 21 •
1'931.86'
1'319.02•
1' 298.00•
.
,
812.80 •
1,083. 30'
381.5 0'
1,150. 50'
650.00 *
1,498.25'
1 602 36'
1' 547.00 •
5'514. 17•
.
'
308.75
25•
509
1
·
,

32
142
47
195
34
123
40
125
42
97
29
103
55
42
54
332
68
139
44
242
45
187
48
242
70
454
94 76
37
150
32
103
60
210
36
115
35
123
54
225
64
263
181 41
48
60
74
254
27
46
53
193
46
249
46
426
60
167
69
696
272 44
62
234
75
423
61
76
84 33
57
159
176 41
57
233
32
100
367 45
51
258
36
101
57
252
51
291
55
254
33
137
65
159
68
171
40
63
41
151
29
93
256 35
215 41
66
251
64
7!7
25
53
664 91

138

No.

626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
682
683
684

Lodire

Chula Vista ..............
Lamanda Park ........
Truth ........................
Fairview ....................
Ingleside ..................
Benevolence
Normal Heights ......
Poinsettia ..................
Victorville ................
Riverside ..................
John Marshall ..........
Palisades ..................
Indian Rock ..............
Composite ................
Veritas ......................
James A. Foshay ....
La Cumbre ................
Alta Loma ................
Lomita ......................
A. F. E. Irwin ..........
Metropolitan ............
Hawthorne ..............
Damascus ..................
Florence ....................
La Brea ....................
Menlo Park ..............
Crescenta Valley ....
Fontana ········- ·-·······
Jordan ·········--·········
Monte Vista ............
Citrol ..........................
John D. Spreckels....
Livingston ···-···········
La Habra ..................
Baldwin Park
Malta ..........................
Henry Knox ............
Ojai ............................
K aweah -··················
Reseda ......................
Meridian ....................
San Gorgonio ..........
John P. Jarman ......
Greenleaf ..................
San Clemente ..........
Laguna Beach ..........
Far West ....................
Los Cerritos ..............
Modesto ....................
Willow Glen ............
Liberal Arts ............
Altadena ..................
Canby Cross ............
Carmel ......................
Dos Palos ···-········----Barstow ....................
Redwood Empire ....
Trona ·········- ·- ······

1961 Membership Partlcl1962
19GZ
1961
pation
196Z
Partldpatlon
Membership Contribntiona
%
Contrlbotlona Hemben %

692
306
231
305
223
262
821
761
283
630
296
451
216
686
152
219
350
404
385
262
183
585
733
425
262
352
608
412
425
862
263
684
219
262
333
264
427
180
138
771
518
267
301
868
151
198
357
528
526
422
420
556
152
263
165
437
127
160

1,470.oo•
687.82*
807.06*
1,071.36*
486.50*
577.04*
1,841.26*
1,689.51 *
456.00
1,516.95*
655.oo•
1,942.83*
410.50
1,634.65*
325.oo•
734.38*
1,340.50*
1,245.55*
1,153.66*
882.29*
712.58*
1,730.59*
1,498.39*
1,112.76*
605.26*
543.50
1,277.53*
827.33*
918.42*
2,087.72*
469.05
1,697.19*
472.50*
1,289.70*
847.71 *
699.99*
1,894.80*
305.67
284.50*
1,860.96*
1,104.34*
540.11 *
608.25*
1,516.59
162.00
424.00
810.75*
1,581.00*
900.50
522.50
1,228.10*
1,931.99*
..............
573.50*
352.oo•
943.75*
295.oo•
439.00*

39
44
50
45
47
84
34
36
37
65
39
55
38
46
41
35
66
32
46
50
73
48
32
40
37
32
31
33
33
27
39
39
44
68
31
39
43
29
49
43
47
26
41
44
30
58
53
68
25
60
87
52
39
42
86
69
51

139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

1,579.83*
805.56*
751.99*
1,381. 76*
611.00*
580.23*
2,032.77*
2,060.01 *
659.50*
1,917.84*
807.41 *
1,888.51 *
468.00*
2,433.oo•
318.50*
713.38*
1,358.25*
1,435.63*
1,239.70*
907.26*
774.55*
1,141.93
1,864.75*
1,057.92*
559.96*
733.00*
1,529.21 *
1,377.76*
1,000.00*
2,429.74*
817 .so•
1,769.47*
452.oo•
613.22*
659.76
1,109.15*
2,278.25*
774.29*
349.50*
2,342.58*
1,556.58*
535.10*
629.00*
2,234.44*
189.00
272.50
956.00*
1,607.67*
1,151.13*
593.50
1,504.85*
1,650.60*
321.00*
538.50*
350.oo•
1,284.00*
400.oo•
550.50*

306
44
128 42
110 48
160 52
121
54
209 80
300 37
294 39
145 51
440
70
152 51
215 48
72
33
422
62
69 45
117 53
210
60
161
40
190 49
138 53
124 68
155 26
218
28
202
48
111
42
117 33
231
38
186 45
172 40
320 37
135 51
183 27
101
46
153 58
75
22
164 62
224 52
129 72
78
57
379
49
296
57
147
55
139 46
440
51
41
27
56 28
196 55
334 63
169 32
178 42
378
90
270 . 49
80
53
96 37
110 67
184 42
59 46
101
63

No.

Lodge

lHZ
1961 Membership PartidPartlclpatlon
1962
1961
patlon
196:1
Memberahlp Contribotlon•
%
Contrlbutlona Memben %

685 San Marino ............. . 475
686 Albany ...................... 231
687 Vista ......................... . 335
688 Oildale ...................... 277
689 Pohona ...................... 86
690 San Carlos ................ 458
691 Indian Wells Valley 423
692 Travelers .................. 211
693 Palm Springs .......... 219
694 San Antonio ............ 263
695 Meudell .................... 203
696 Crossroads ................ 357
697 Saint Elmo ............... . 250
698 Wm. D. Stephens.... 177
699 Bixby Knolls ............ 375
700 Ponderosa ................ 364
701 Santa Ynez Valley.. 131
702 Rosemead ................. . 243
703 Westchester .............. 461
704 Orinda ..................... . 223
705 El Cerrito .................. 20s
706 Hunters Point Naval 248
707 Lake Tahoe ·-··········· 90
708 Seafaring .................. 454
709 Lorenzo ..................... . 368
710 Ana capa .................... 245
711 Rim of the World. .. . 153
712 Los Altos ................. . 213
713 Castro Valley .......... 293
714 Blue Lakes ·········-··· 209
715 Magnolia Park ........ 254
716 Belmont Shore ..... . 350
717 Wayfarer ................. . 203
718 San Lorenzo Valley 93
719 Estero ...................... 150
720 Mineral King ............ 112
721 Home ........................ 460
722 Geoge E. Tutt.......... 168
723 Acalanes .................. 185
724 San Ramon Valley.. 163
725 Saint John's .............. 225
726 Yucaipa ................... . 181
727 Verdugo Hills ........ 102
728 Lakewood ................ 237
729 Centennial ................ 153
730 Polaris ...................... 152
731 Two Rivers .............. 185
732 San Juan .................. 207
733 Golden Empire ...... 141
734 Kit Carson ................ 186
735 Oasis of Mara .......... 118
736 Lemon Grove .......... 384
737 Hillsborough ........... . 176
738 Arvin ........................ 119
739 La Canada ···········-· 152
740 Opportunity ·-········· 202
741 Tyre·····-········--········· 211
742 Morningside Park.... 194
743 Oakwood -················ 100

2,247.73*
s20.oo•
461.26
569.50*
234.oo•
1,102.25*
934.46*
483.00*
497.90*
633.13*
431.92*
952.73*
1,072.25*
1,511.51 *
1,154.87*
772.50*
345.50*
702.72*
1,161.59*
472.00*
537 .oo•
621.00*
396.72*
895.38*
1,133.25*
514.42*
403.50*
956.25*
664.71 *
513.oo•
669.50*
1 133 25•
'529:99•
187.oo•
499.75*
266.50*
1 078 72•
'331:so•
543.00*
391.00*
587.13*
415.00*
448.26*
694.85*
806.07*
539.50*
633.93*
753.50*
759.00*
725.00*
229.00*
1 137 48*
'592:30•
323.00*
619.76*
901.33*
609.77*
583.75*
436.65*

76
53
42
67
69
46
78
39
79
44
75
67
53
100
58
52
70
58
42
51
54
56
53
100
80
36
53
75
81
73
58
48
36
lOO
61
46
63
64
39
35
47
56
100
56
78
73
75
64
80
65
100
49
58
69
72
100
59
93
100

2,542.56*
680.00•
606.64
1,029.00*
212.so•
1,031.47*
964.19*
614.50*
657.77*
954.90*
484.84*
1,135.50*
1,126.00*
1,785.25*
1,597.80*
1,009.00*
340.50*
989.24*
1,709.13*
564.75*
629.oo•
796.00*
265.50*
1,156.46*
1,322.00*
992.91 *
204.46
852.oo•
879.00*
sao.so•
820.25*
1,220.50*
781.38*
291.00•
520.75*
346.25*
1,442.00*
374.25*
564.00*
432.00*
567.25*
397.75*
546.60*
770.60*
663.88*
699.57*
644.05*
785.24*
2,073.50*
904.15*
238.50*
1,325.14*
1,000.00*
341.00*
770.13*
791.99*
768.70*
882.25*
734.53*

361 76
130 56
119 36
196 71
56 65
183 40
374 88
106 50
171 78
140 53
168 83
257 72
129 52
176 99
243
65
229
63
85 65
170 70
344 75
140 63
109 53
185 75
42
47
276 61
288 78
172 70
34 22
146 69
258 88
134 64
154 61
189
54
97
48
94 100
98
65
60
54
341 74
119 71
84 45
55 34
86 38
94 52
111 100
133 56
95 62
111
73
127 69
116 56
120 85
125 67
118 100
212 55
155 88
76 64
122 80
101 50
140 66
181 93
108 100

140
No.

744
745
746
747
748
749
750
751
752
753
754
755
756
757
758
759
760
761
762
763
764
765
766
767
768
769
770
771
772
773
774
775
776
777
778
779
780
781
782
783
784
785
786
787
788
789
790
791

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodi'•

San Leandro ····-······
Peninsula ·--·······-····
Soquel ············-········
Claude H. Morrison
Highland ..................
Merced ······-·-····-·····
Mother Colony ........
Hamilton ..................
Luther Burbank ....
Lawndale -···-··--·····
San Pablo·····-···········
Golden Bowl ............
Clayton Valley···-···
Channel ....................
West Covina ............
El Rancho ·····-·········
Lakeside ·········-·········
Josiah W. Roller....
Coastside ..................
Arabic ···········-····-·····
Heritage ....................
Dana R. Weller ......
James H. Kew ........
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Zenith ·····-··-·········Palmdale ···-···········Lake Chabot ............
Mission Bay ............
Avenal ......................
Tejon ........................
Waikiki ···········-·······
San Dieguito ............
East Whittier............
Pinnacle ···-···············
La Mirada ·····-·········
Five Points ..............
Riviera ......................
Rolling Hills ............
Silverado ·····-···········
Mojave ......................
Leland Stanford ....
Paramount ..............
Rio Linda ................
Westminster ............
Sierra ........................
Oak Plains ..............
Granada Hills ·····-·
Gen. Henry
H. Arnold -·······-·
792 · Millbrae -··················
793 Maya ···············-·······
794 Mt. Wilson................
795 American River ......
796 Golden Valley -·-·797 Tila Pass ··-·····-·······
798 Ashland ······-···-······
799 Bay Claire Vista......
800 Rio Hondo ···-···········
801 Koolau -·········-··-··-·

141

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1981 llembenhlp Partlel1961
19U
patlon
lHZ
Membenhlp Contrlbadcma
9'
Contrl•atlom

172
147
145
123
204
139
158
142
181
191
118
172
247
108
184
199
99
177
112
154
134
132
151
138
221
215
118
173
54
158
123
196
166
54
143
81
125
109
113
70
120
92
90
110
86
118
121

352.70*
662.00*
320.25 8
231.10*
567.00*
265.75*
703.44*
290.50*
407.50*
656.75*
264.50*
728.32*
582.60*
205.50*
640.08*
220.00
423.42*
331.36
196.00*
1,900.25*
387.50*
308.00*
563.46*
683.75*
1,146.75*
618.00*
200.50
635.65*
114.00•
316.50*
422.75*
39.00
495.60*
122.50*
551.18*
228.17*
1,468.10*
433.62*
370.00*
145.00*
337.00*
154.00
420.75*
296.62*
434.50*
300.50*
358.64*

43
73
64
54
70
41
100
63
51
61
42
82
45
51
59
24
81
35
100
100
58
83
64
69
82
99
58
92
52
100
93
5
54
100
100
69
100
46
100
37
91
78
100
88
100
64
66

468.00*
827.50*
359.50*
183.50
420.50*
416.25*
331.65*
454.oo•
510.25*
787.42*
260.75*
900.18*
741.76*
289.75*
741.05*
416.66*
423. 70*
710.67*
345.25*
711.25*
543.08*
534.67*
831.35*
596.25*
1,121.69*
843.23*
254.oo•
548.50*
147.oo•
325.75*
344.25*
400.00*
577.19*
108.00*
866.30*
405.83*
775.00*
498.55*
266.02*
280.15*
384.00*
232.50*
535.50*
333.00*
348.00*
489.00*
548.63*

92
66
71
135
114
126
67
74
56
71
61

186.11*
288.36*
208.50*
379.38*
500.75*
378.00*
197.50*
119.00*
168.25*
119.50*
98.00*

72
65
85
71
91
85
78
70
82
57
67

221.41*
161.00*
203.00*
683.05*
557.50*
267.oo•
400.00*
239.oo•
238.00*
461.02*
168.75*

lHZ
Partldpatlon
Kemben "

88 51
110 75
95
66
57 46
106 52
73 . 53
54 34
144 100
104 57
107 56
38 32
151 88
127 51
57
53
116 63
76 38
75 76
150
85
93
83
126 82
78 58
123 93
94 62
84 61
132 60
176 82
78
66
113 65
27
50
151
96
74 60
67
34
84 51
41
76
142 99
72
89
90 72
49
45
69 61
65 93
91
76
73 79
91 100
76
69
43 50
90 76
95 79

52
29
47
132
92
45
55
50
41
67
45

57
44
66
98
81
36
82
68
73
94
74

No.

Lodge

IHI
1961 Membenhlp PartldPartielpatlon
196Z
19U
patlon
lHZ
Hem
..
n
9'
Membenhlp Contrl•atlou
'JG,
Contrlktlou

49
52
333.16*
16 31
77.00
27
57
107.00*
79 100
1,300.50*
30 50
117.50
..............
415.26*
68 100
119.50*
27
63
82.oo•
26 ~~
100.00•
50
$696,571.15 112,797 46
Average Contribution-$6.18

802 Yucca Valley............
94
803 The Gabilan ............
52
804 Moreno Valley ........ 47
805 Camellia ..................
79
806 Simi Valley..............
60
807 Conejo Valley .......... 71
U.D. Scepter ·····-······-·······
68
U.D. Los Alamitos .......... 43
U.D. Victoria Palms ........ 34
U.D. Woodland Hills ......
50
TOTAL
244,242

187.98
222.50
86.00
156.25
72.00
92.00
···-··-·····
..............
..............
..............

32
27
50
100
100
100

89
99
59
74

10.00
243.01*

2
50

No. Calif. Research ........... .
So. Calli'. Research ···-·····
El Camino Research ·······-·
Central Calif. Research ....
GRAND TOTAL

244,563

1

·······-··-·
216.00•

49

49

Over-all Average Contribution-$6.18
$696,787.15 112,846
46

142

PROCEEDING S OF THE

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTRO L
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
.The Boar~ ~~ Control herewith submits its annual report incorpo-

rating the achv1t1es of our Boards of Relief and Employmen t Bureaus.
. ."Re~ief'_' is among the principal tenets of Masonry. The word with
~ts 1mp~1cations has existed in Masonry from time immemorfal and yet
it was mdeed most startling to find so many of our Brethren who had
so little knowledge of its perpetuation through the efforts of our Boards
of Relief.
The Board of Control has given long and serious consideratio n to
ways and means of improving this situation. It has completed a survey
and study of all Lodges within the jurisdiction of Grand Lodge. Maps
depicting member and non-membe r Lodges of Boards of Relief have
been prepared and services rendered by our Boards for these Lodges
have been analyzed. As a remedial measure. in order that our Brethren
may become more enlightened of the purposes. functions and objectives
of .our Boards of Relief we have formulated an educational program.
It is hoped that b~ n_ie~ns of our visitations and addresses to Lodges
throughout th~ Junsdtet1on that they will be encouraged to join existing
Boards of Relief or form new Boards. A Board of Relief is not an autonomous organizat~on, each Lodge has equal representati on in its governmen~ and operations. The program might also serve a twofold purpose.
I~ will off~r .the average Mason, "the sideliner," an opportunity to actively participate and practice Masonry in its various facets, for where,
my Brethren , can the tangible evidence of Masonry practiced out of
the Lodge be s.o evident.as in a Boa rd of Relief. It is regrettable that space
~oes not permit the setting forth of specific instances of the heart rendering examples of blessed relief.
The unprecedent ed population growth in California, with its accompanied proportion of sojourning Brethren, together with the much
~ublicized recession throughout the country have caused considerabl e
mcrea.sed activities in our Boards of Relief and Employmen t Bureaus.
Notw1thstan.ding this additional work that has been thrust upon them.
they have discharged their duties promptly and without discord. It is
the uns~l~sh labors o.f t~ese dedicated Masons, who give so generously
an~ unt.m ngly of their time and abilities to minister to the needs of our
SOJOUrnmg Brethren, their widows and orphans, with kindness and
compassion, and at levels of economy and efficiency that have earned
for them and all of us an enviable reputation among all Grand Lodge
jurisdictions.
. The Board of Control is charged with the responsibili ty of superv~sing the activities. of our Boards of Relief, which presently number
nineteen, five of which also maintain Employmen t Bureaus. Rules and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

143

regulations and uniform standards have been established for their aper~
ations, reporting. and auditing. by which we are able to keep a watchful
eye upon all of the operations for which we are responsible .
The Board of Control holds at least three meetings each year, at
which times we meet with our Board of Relief Secretaries in order that
we may have a more personal contact with them and they with each
other. and that we all may have a better understandi ng of our respective
problems and responsibilit ies.
After carefully analyzing the audited reports which have been submitted by our nineteen Boards of Relief, we ask your brief indulgence
in the following condensed statistics covering their operations during
the Masonic Year ended June 30, 1962:
Advanced for RelieL ............................. ....$36.941.37
Funerals conducted··· ·-----·-----·---- ·------- .... ---··· 1,077
Total calls made........... -----··-·--····- --·····----- .. ··· 33,788
Calls on the sick.·---·--·--········--····-------·----·------ 10,362
Investigatio ns conducted ···---·---······ .. -·---·"-· 3,414
Relief calls made·-·····-----·····--"·--· --............ ... 10.579
Miscellaneo us calls made.......................... .. 9,433
The magnitude of these activities warrants for these heroic Masons
the undying gratitude of the entire Craft.
BLOOD BANKS

Many of our Boards of Relief operate Masonic Blood Banks, and
those which do not usually have some other arrangemen t for providing
blood to Mas~ns or their dependents when necessary. The following
figures indicate the extent of our blood donation activities during the
past year.
Units of blood donated..........................................4,165
Units of blood withdrawn ..................... ............. .3,287
You will note that a substantia l reserve of blood has been built up
during the year. The actual cost, in savings to our Masonic family, by
this service was $82,8 26.
EMPLOYMEN T BUREAUS

As stated above, we have Employmen t Bureaus within five of our
Boards of Relief. Their purpose, of course, is to assist our Masonic
family to obtain gainful employment . Although there has been increasing competition from public placement agencies. unions and others in
this field , we are pleased to report that our Bureaus have been successful
in filling approximate ly 100 more positions than in the preceding year.
The following figures briefly set forth the activities of our Employmen t
Bureaus during the past Masonic year:
Registered for employment.--·-·-·····-·---·-·· ·· ..···-.... .5.957
Positions actually secured...................................... 959

lH

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Our ~mployment Bureaus operate without charge either to employer
or employee. Had fees been charged on the basis of rates fixed for commercial agencies, such employment opportunities would have cost the
members of the Fraternity and their families $93,838.31.
APPROPRIATION S

Our Grand Lodge customarily gives financial assistance to our Employment Bureaus where deemed expedient. The Board of Control has
made a careful analysis of the appropriations being requested by the
various Bureaus and makes the following recommendatio ns aggregating
$12,312.00 for the current Masonic Year:
East Bay ........................................................$2,500.00
Long Beach .................................................... 2,900.00
Los Angeles .................................................... 1,000.00
San Diego ...................................................... 3,412.00
San Francisco ................................................ 2,500.00
We have referred the matter of these appropriations to the Chairman
of the Finance Committee as required by Section 265 of the California
Masonic Code.
REIMBURSEMEN TS TO MASONIC BOARDS OP RELIEF

It has long been the policy of this Grand Lodge that no worthy
Brother sojourning in our Jurisdiction, or his immediate family. shall
suffer for the necessities of life, or have other than a decent burial upon
their demise, regardless of the willingness or ability of the Brother's own
Lodge to reimburse us. Our Grand Lodge undertakes to reimburse any
Board of Relief for such unrecoverable advances. During the past Masonic Year our Boards of Relief advanced more than $36,941.00 to sojourners and their dependents. All such advances were carefully scrutinized by one of our Executive Secretaries and efforts were made to obtain
reimbursement from the sojourner's home Lodge. It is gratifying to
report that out of $36,941.37 advanced during the year, only $50.00
was not repaid, in accordance with the following request to Grand Lodge
for reimbursement :
REIMBURSEMEN T TO THE SAN FRANCISCO BOARD OF RELIEF

The San Francisco Board of Relief has requested reimbursement in
the amount of $50.00. This matter, which has continued over many years,
involves a very worthy Brother from Scotland and his wife for whom
the Grand Lodge of Scotland made some provision but not sufficient for
their essential needs. The Brother is now deceased. The widow has expressed her sincere gratitude to our Grand Lodge and believes she can
now adjust her mode of living so that further assistance will no longer
be necessary.

145

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The Board of Control has recommended that the Finance Committee
approve this reimburseme~t :f $50.0?· d the utmost cooperation during
The Board of Contro as receive i ful Grand Master. the Grand
this past year from t~e Most ~o~s!~etary as well as from their offiSecretary and the Assistant Gr
t f 1
all of their assistance and
cers and associates. We are most gra e u
their kindnesses.
Respectfully submitted.

fo;

ARTHUR DVORIN
JOHN M. SWAN
IRVING MAGNES
NoRMAN E. HALE
LESTER S. M c ELWAIN
EXPIRATION OF TERM OF OFFICE OP
BoARD OF CoNTROL MEMBERS:

1962

IRVING MAGNES ························· ········::::::~:::::::::::: 1962
JoHN M. SwAN •·•••·•··•·•···•·•••·••·••···••••
1963
ARTHUR DvoRIN ••···•·•··•··•··••··•·•····••·•••••·••·••••••·•••• 1964
NoRMAN E. HALE·············· ··················::::::: ::::::::: t 964
LESTER S. McELWAIN ..........................

Referred to Comittee on F inance.

146

147

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES,
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

A thorough examination of the existing sound system revealed that
improvements should be made to it. Accordingly, corrective measures
were taken involving new vertical column speakers back of the stage;
new ceiling speakers in selected locations; the elimination of certain
speakers in various locations; and the construction of an alternate control board remote from the Master Control Station.
The above work has been accomplished, and the results have been
most gratifying. Further operational adjustments can now. readily be
made to accommodate the diversified list of demands as required by our
tenants.
The Board has already received favorable reaction and comment
concerning these improvements, and feels certain that there will be an
ever-increasing demand for our facilities by those in the entertainm~nt
field. and by organizations for convention purposes. The Frate~mty
itself benefits public-relations wise from such use. because of the national
publicity given when our auditorium is used by such organi~ations as t~e
American Bar Association, or by such performers as Mau:1c~ Chevalier
or the Limeliters. The Boar<l feels certain that revenues will mcrea~e by
such use. and of course the more the auditorium is used, the larger will be
our revenue from the operation of the garage, which is rented on a percentage basis.
It is gratifying to note that the number of visitors to the Temple is
increasing yearly-due, in part, to the policy adopted by the Board of
Trustees last year in having the Temple open for inspection on Saturdays
and Sundays.
Due to the constant vigilance of Brother Alvin A. Horwege, Building Manager. and Harry Haines, his assistan~. a~d to .the co~perati?n
of their able staff. the building has been mamtamed m keeping with
the highest standards. It has been gratifying to know that this has been
accomplished at a minimum expense.
In keeping with the Board's previous decisions to publish a supplement to the Open Book. the names of subsequent donors (those not
having contributed prior to the original publication) are being carefully segrega ted-anticipating this second listing of names. We now
have several thousand names to be added. Any member wishing to be
included as a "Builder of the Temple" has time in which to make his
contribution, and assure his name being listed in the Open Book.
As of September I, 1962, we have 531 Lodges on the Merit Roll, and
84 "HONOR DISTRICTS." Space does not permit us to here list all
Me11it Roll Lodges, but we do salute and list the "HONOR DISTRICTS."

This is the Eighth Annual Report issued by the Board of Trustees
of the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
The Board of Trustees met following the close of the 1961 Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge, as is required by the By-Laws, for
the purpose of organization. The election of Brother Ira W. Coburn,
Deputy Grand Master; Brother Elmer W. Heald, Senior Grand Warden; and Brother Theodore Meriam, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the Board, and on motion duly made, seconded and
carried, they were elected members of the Board of Trustees. Appointed
to the Board by the Grand Master was Brother Jay A. Robinson. The
Board elected the following officers: Ira W. Coburn, President; Frank
Harwell, Jr., Vice President; Paul A. Pflueger, Treasurer; and Edward
H. Siems, Secretary. As part of this report, we submit the reports of
Lybrand, Ross Brothers & Montgomery, Certified Public Accountants,
and Brother Alvin A. Horwege, Building Manager.
During this Masonic year, the members of the Board of Trustees
have worked to a great extent as operative Masons, authorizing such
improvements to our Temple as were necessary to make it the most
desirable place in the Bay Area for concert performances and convention purposes.
Even before this Masonic year began, certain recommendations had
been made to the Board to make the auditorium more acceptable for
public use. and during the present year, the following work was actually
accomplished:
1. Raising of the stage 3' 1Yi" from floor level. (The stage can be
disassembled and stored.)
2. Installation of portable backdrops and wings.
3. Installation of spotlights in the ba lcony- located in two permanently designed enclosures.
4. Installation of a sound-proof. air-conditioned projection and
spotlight booth suspended from the rear of the balcony.
5. Installation of attractive ticket booths in the main lobby.
6. Upon recommendation of Dr. Vern Knudsen of the University
of California in Los Angeles, one of the recognized authorities on acoustics, and upon the recommendation of H. M. Engle, Structural Engineer,
the following work was completed:
In order to further control sound reflection, the wall surface's at
the rear of the auditorium were replaced by surfaces of perforated hardboard and plywood, and the upper portion of the walls was laid out with
splayed panels, the fada of the balcony was rounded to provide further
deJlection.

148

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

HONOR DISTRICTS BY D1v1s10Ns

DIVISION IV( 18 Districts}Raym ond G. Taylor, Ass't Grand Lecturer
112; 275; 459; 591
Claiborn Schonhoff
402
24; 98 ; 689; 788
Daniel Kleiman
411
312; 488: 681
236:
William S. Thompson
412
41 7; 420; 508
280:
Dollar
.
E
Samuel
416
247; 316; 366; 465: 530; 700
Herbert R. Hargrave
418
196; 209; 719
Chad Horton
420
285; 286; 493
Paul L. Turner
421
277; 294; 304; 383; 385
Clarence L. Fraser
424
309; 466; 581; 583
Fred Charles Pritschke
428
426; 434 ; 477: 516
Carl E. Moore
432

DIVISION I ( 11 Districts} Clare B. Campbell, Ass't Grand Lecturer
DISTRICTS

104
106
116
118

149

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

INSPECTORS

George S. Ward
Percy W. Lindt
T.W. Moore
Edward L. Spellmeyer

LooGES

37; 91: 186
297; 310; 430; 555
111; 230; 318: 784
60; 132; 234: 601

DIVISION II ( 17 Districts) Harold N. Richards. Ass't Grand Lecturer
13; 23; 51; 59; 101
Edward Farley
208
3; 579; 730; 786
Horace R. LaFortune
216
20; 613; 692; 789
Frank P . Lemen
218
40; 64; 732; 795
A. Boyd Collier
219
56: 65; 80; 95; 174
Alfred A. Penrose
224
19; 68; 757
Wendell Howard Nicol
226
DIVISION III ( 54 Districts} Arthur J. Kahn, Ass't Grand Lecturer
314
George T. Rowse
191; 356; 556; 751
316
Clarence E. Shoaf
5; 87; 229; 487
319
Ralph P . Partridge
337; 353; 705; 754
320
Victor Prenk
347; 431; 502; 503
326
Samuel G. Clark
144: 464; 534
328
James E. Finley
344; 375; 388; 545
330
Paul A. Hackler
435; 449; 549; 706
332
Joseph Myron Ruggiero
219; 354; 562; 570
334
Charles L. Foster
169; 455; 526; 673
337
Harry M . Michelsen
44; 393; 500; 531
338
Gordon E. Robinson
376; 714 ; 762; 792
342
Carlton H . Rothblum
216; 370; 470; 536
344
Harry K. Widup
22; 30; I 66: 462
350
E. Lloyd Hanson
61; 468; 494; 560
354
Roy H. Lenthall
225; HO; 480; 568: 697
361
Alfred Johnson
704; 723 ; 724; 725
362
Carl R. Ramsey
215; 396; 491
364
Clarence C. Smith
226; 400; 737; 745
365
E. Ross Baylis
168; 651; 690
367
Edward C. Will
218; 243; 321; 709; 798
368
Arno Ragghianti
194: 346; 712; 761
376
Andre L. Armand
17
378
John Behrens
127
384
Robert Edgar
371: 409; 774; 801
385
Frederick Bolte
21; 443; 589; 598
390
Lee H. Buchheister
46; 187; 211; 463

DIVISION V (48 Districts) Ralph W. Collins, Ass't Grand Lecturer
221; 287; 333
Wilfred W. Partridge
500
684; 691
Lynn Allen Blackmun
502
437; 769: 783: 791; Old West U .D.
James E . Bacon
504
192; 242; 444; 642
Ray H. Paine
508
214; 291 ; 379; 633; 663
Frank E . Stevens
51 O
450; 611; 666; 768; Woodland
Harold S. Morrison
516
HiJJs, U. D.
406; 542; 715; 721
Reginald Bunce
520
592; 652; 739; 743
522
James R. Young
368; 544 ; 667: 727
Frank W. Raddatz
524
678: 685; 794
627;
T~ William Heidner
530
324; 452; 599
272;
532
612; 800; 805
104:
Roy C. Addleman, Jr.
538
319; 793; 797
278;
Roy T. Kiele
544
329
Charles A. Thomasset
546
662
623;
592;
351;
Arthur Linsk
554
42; 202; 458; 767
556
Alfred J. Navin
335; 392; 506: 537
Lloyd V. Smith
558
320; 445; 535: 584; 763
Frederic Edwin Clark
560
566; 614; 650
Thompson
Field
562
513; 602
415;
355;
Erwin H. Gebhardt
566
595: 677
482;
373;
Elvin C. D rake
570
637: 780
307;
Thomas J. McKimson
572
512: 548
467:
369;
Theodore B. Pach
574
577; 629
405;
394:
Louis H. Mahler
580
421: 515: 742; 766
582
William Robusch
647: 740; 753
586
John A. Owen
372; 538; 765
588
Robert E. Crist
220; 523; 741: 785
Claudis Thomas Shirley
596

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

DIVISI ON VI (32 Districts ) W. Ben Sorrells, Ass't Grand Lecturer
326; 634; 682
Russell F. Bragg
601
670; 717; 776
323;
Lustig
M.
Richard
608
357; 377; 778
315;
Siems
R.
Ted
614
50i; 540; 655; 674
Melvin R. Berbowe r
624
594; 619; 699; 779
Charles J. Wentz
626
339; 533; 656; 659
Riley L. Blurton
628
293; 469; 750
207;
A. Bird Cross
629
505; 586; 604
241;
Taylor
Lacy
John
630
325; 580; 687
Lewis H. Field
637
407; 576; 736; 760
Lorenza H. Shaw
638
632; 696: 799
441;
Winfield S. Mc Lees
639
561; 574
442:
35;
Oscar H. Nelson
640
626; 747
296;
283;
Fred S. Weed
642
412; 425
402;
390;
384;
Tester
P.
Norbert
646
printed
is
ants
Account
. . Altho_ugh the report of our Certified Public
you
give
we
Report,
r's
Treasure
tn its entirety .as a part of the Grand
;
reference
·ready
your
for
ation
recapitul
a
below
Original Bank Borrowi ng...... ...... $2,303,790.00
Retired through June 30, 1962.... 990,000.00

REPOR T OF BUILD ING MANA GER

150

Balance owed July 1, 1962............ $1,313,790.00
Payment made August l, 1962.... 180,000.00
Notes payable to Banks
$1,133,790.00
(Septemb er 1, 1962) ............
Finally, the Board of Trustees thanks all who have assisted us in
the solution of the many problems which have arisen during the course
the ~ear. We especiall y thank Brother Horwege for his devotion to
his ~utJes as Building Manage r for the past four years, and we extend
to him our best wishes on his well earned retiremen t.
Respectf ully submitte d,
IRA W . COBURN, Presiden t
Officers and Trustees:
FRANK HARWEL L, JR .. Vice-Pre sident
PAUL A. PFLUEGE R, Treasure r
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Secretar y

o!

w.

HEALD
ELMER
THEODO RE MERIAM
ARTHUR M . WARREN
KEITH W. SCHLAEG EL

w.

DAVEY
JOHN
RALPH H. HEAD
SAMUEL I. JACOBS
JAY A . ROBINSO N

151

To the Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple:
Brethren:
It is with much pleasure that I submit this, my fourth and final report as Manager of the Californ ia Masonic Memoria l Temple.
Many changes and adjustme nts have occurred in the T emple operations since we opened our doors in April, 1958. As a result of our experience s, patterns of policy and procedur e have develope d, which I
believe will lead to successfu l future growth. and to the continua nce
of an atmosph ere of dignity and high regard in the community.
In the beginnin g. it was anticipat ed that the major source of revenue
would come from the exhibit area for conventi on usage, and, in fact,
during each of the first two years, ten conventions were handled. Early
in the 1960-61 Masonic year, however , the Board of T rus tees, noting
the sharp decline in con vention occupanc y because of additional fac·ilities provided in neighbor ing hotels, realized that the auditorium should
be placed in a better position to attract the concert field.
The auditoriu m had been originall y designed for fraternal use, and
included a number of physical features consider ed somewha t unusual
by the general entertain ment business. As reported last year by the
Board of Trustees , the stage was redesign ed, and action was taken to
make certain practical changes more in keeping with suggestio ns made
by the concert .trade. In addition , acoustica l treatmen ts ha ve been completed ·in the auditorium, and two ticket booths have been added in the
main foyer. Work is still continuin g on the sound sys tem, and adjustments are being made to fit the different acoustica l requirem ents.
All of these changes have met with enthusia stic response from entertainm ent manager s, and the use of the auditorium for concert purposes has materially increased . This is demonst rated by the fact that
during the year 1961-62, the auditoriu m's usa ge for outside activities
increased 42 per cent-64 days being utilized in such occupancy. The
exhibit hall, on the other hand, was used by only one conventi on, and
miscellaneous usages accounte d for another 22 days-a decrease of 10
days from last year. The increase in the auditorium rental, however ,
has resulted in an over-all boost in gross revenue above last year's total
intake. The Fall of 1962 and the Spring of 1963 will bring to our auditorium one of the finest concert seasons since the opening of the T emple.
One factor related to the stepped- up use of the auditorium is the
increased use of the garage in handling the attending crowds. As a
consequence, the annual garage revenue has now increased to well over
$50,000 per year.
Our Visitors' Register points up the interest of not only the Fra-

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ternity. but the general public as well in our Temple. It includes the
names of guests from all corners of the earth. and 4,820 visitors have
been recorded during the past year. (Large numbers failed to register.)
In making this, my last report after nearly five years as Building
Manager. may I express both to the Board of Trustees, and to the
others with whom I have worked, the pleasure in, and the appreciation
for. the challenge which has been mine. I am grateful. too, for their
advice and support in handling the numerous interesting problems with
which we have been confronted. I also here extend to my friends
throughout the State, whom it has been my privilege and pleasure to
have known during the almost 19 years of association with the Grand
Lodge F. & A. M. of California, my assurance that memories of our
close association will be cherished throughout the rest of my life.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DISTRIBUTION

152

Respectfully submitted.
ALVIN A. HORWEGE

Building Manager

153

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Distribution. to which has been referred the annual message of the Grand Master and the reports of the Grand Treasurer. Grand Secretary, and Grand Lecturer, submits the following
report:
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master's Message
herein listed be referred to the Committees in die a ted :
1. To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
a) The matter of the interdiction of the Culver-Palms Pyramid
No. 57, Order of Sciots.
b) Recommendations 5 and 6.
c) All decisions of the Grand Master, the same being numbered
1-8 inclusive.
2. To the Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes:
a) The recommendation of the Grand Master that the membership of the Public Schools Committee be increased to fifteen
members.
b) Recommendations 1, 2, 3 and i.
3. To the .Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance :
a) The recommendation for the continuance of the Special Committee designated as the Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles
Committee.
b) The recommendation relative to contracting with the University of the Pacific regarding the use of the Columbia Masonic Temple in the State Historical Monument at Columbia.
4. To the Committee on Finance:
a) The recommendation for an appropriation for a new set of
Grand Lodge regalia and equipment.
b) The recommendation that the Finance Committee make adequate provision in its budget for a monthly allowance to Mrs.
Lloyd E. Wilson.
The Message of the Grand Master reflects a year of great accomplishment as well as love of the Fraternity and his continuing devotion
to Masonry. His activities have won him the honor and respect of those
with whom he has come in contact and have endeared him to his Brethren in all Jurisdictions.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

We recommend the referral of this report in its entirety to the Committee on Finance.

PROCEEE>INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT
. We recomme nd the portions of the Grand Secretar y's Report herein
l1sted be referred to the Committ ees indicated :
I . The portion of the report refative to changes in meeting place be
referred to the Committ ee on By-Laws .
2. The portion of the Report rela ting to consolida tion of Lodges b
e
referred to the Committ ee on Charters .
capita
per
of
on
eliminati
the
3. The portion of the Report relating to
tax f?r Woodla nd Hills Lodge U .D. be referred to the Committ ee
on Fmance.
GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT
. We recom~end the referral of this report in its entirety to the Committees o~ Policy and General Purposes and on Finance.
e highly. com~end ~he Grand Lecturer for his efficient administration of the Ritual m Californ ia a nd for his creative work in formulat i
ng
a program for the educatio n of new members.
cony
Secretar
. The reports of. the Gr~nd Treasure r and the Grand
tinue to r.eflect their splendid services to the Craft and to Grand Lod e.
W e particula rly congratu late the Grand Secretar y's staff for the gr:at
work they are do.ing for the Lodges of Californ ia and for their helpfulness on a ll occasion s.
Respectf uily submitte d,
HAROLD s. MORRISON
Louis L. CuNNINGHAM
NILES 0. MILLAR
Adopted .

IN GRAND LODGE

l 54

'!'

a .m. T ues d ay.
At 4:25 p.m. Grand Lodge was caIIed off until 9·30
.

155

MORNING SESSION, TU ESDAY, OCTOBER 9, l 962
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 a.m .. the Grand M aster presiding. The invocatio n was delivered by the Grand Chaplain . The minutes
of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday , October 8, were read
and approved.

REPOR T OF COMM MITTE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of Californ ia:
Your C ommittee on By-Laws has consider ed 110 amendm ents to
By-Laws and eighteen resolutio ns for removal of place of meeting, as
follows:

AMENDMENTS TO UNIFORM CODE OF BY-LAWS
(Californ ia Masonic Code, Sections 365, 366)
UNIFO RM CODE OF BY-LAW S adopted in toto (Californ ia
Masonic Code, Sections 339, 340. 15 Lodges) :
Oroville No. 103; Chico No. I l l ; San Benito No. 211; Santa Lucia
No. 302; H ollenbec k No. 319; San Jacinto No. 338; San Francisc oVictory No. 360; Brawley No. 402; Honolul u No. 409; Melrose No.
602; Anacapa No. 710; Los Alamitos U. D.; Victoria Palms U . D .;
Woodlan d H ills U. D.; Triad U. D.
FEES (Californ ia Masonic Code, S ection 354. 19 Lodges) :
1. For degrees ( 14 Lodges) :
Increasin g ( 10 Lodges) :
Santa Paula No. 291 , to $90.00; A shlar No. 306. to $75.00; Star
King No. 344, to $100.00; La Puente No. 446, to $100.00; So journer
No. 607, to $140.00; Composi te No. 639, to $175.00; W illow Glen No.
676, to $ 115.00; Orinda No. 704, to $100.00; Home No. 72 1, to $165.00;
The Gabilan No. 803, to $105.00.
Decreasing ( 4 Lodges) :
West Gate No. 335, to $165.00; Sojourne r No. 607, to $115.00;
Point Loma No. 620, to $90.00; Traveler s No. 692, to $100.00.
2. For Affiliatio n ( 5 Lodges) :
Fixing (1 Lodge): El C ajon Valley No. 576, at $10.00.
Increasin g ( 1 Lodge): Sierra Valley No. 184, to $25.00.
Rescindi ng ( 3 Lodges) : Pearl Harbor No. 598; H enry Knox No.
662: Home No. 721.
DUES (Califor nia Masonic Code. Section 356. 51 Lodges) :
I ncreasing ( 51 Lodges) :
Temple No. 14, to $15.00; El Dorado No. 26, to $15.00; Forbesto wn
No. 50, to $15.00; Amador No. 65, to $ 16.00; Enterpri se No. 70, to

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$15.00: Curtis No.140, to $15.00; Drytown No. 174, to $15.00; Downey
No. 220, to $15.00; Brooklyn No. 225, to $18.00; Solano No. 229, to
$16.00; Welcome No. 255, to $25.00; Lodi No. 256, to $15.00; Silver Gate
No. 296, to $18.00; Ashlar No. 306, to $18.00; Alisal No. 321, to $15.00;
Oxnard No. 341. to $25.00; San Fernando No. 343, to $20.00; Sunset
No. 352, to $20.00; Mizpah No. 378. to $15.00; Palos Verdes No. 389,
to $18.00; La Puente No. 446, to $18.00; San Pasqual No. 452, to $18.00;
Culver City No. 467, to $20.00; Vallejo No. 487, to $16.00; Cahuenga
No. 513, to $18.00; Ionic No. 520, to $20.00; Sunrise No. 522, to $18.00;
Belvedere No. 539, to $20.00; Signal No. 543, to $18.00; West Adams
No. 565, to $20.00; El Cajon Valley No. 576, to $20.00; Harding No.
584, to $18.00; Compass No. 590, to $18.00; Carmelita No. 599, to
$20.00; Grizzly No. 601, to $15.00; Sojourner No. 607, to $20.00:
Granada No. 608, to $18.00; Southland No. 618, to $18.00; Angeles
Mesa No. 625, to $18.00; San Clemente No. 671. to $16.00; Far West
No. 673, to $18.00; Willow Glen No. 676, to $18.00; Liberal Arts No.
677, to $20.00; Vista No. 687, to $15.00; Orinda No. 704. to $18.00;
Acalanes No. 723, to $20.00; Verdugo Hills No. 727, to $20.00; Lemon
Grove No. 736, to $20.00; Highland No. 748, to $16.00; Josiah W.
Roller No. 761, to $18.00; Mission Bay No. 771, to $15.00.
CHARITY COMMITTEE (California Masonic Code, Section
360):
Increase in authority ( 2 Lodges): Fresno No. 247; Zenith No. 768.
STATED MEETING (California Masonic Code, Section 343)
(23 Lodges):
Changing time (3 Lodges): Ocean Park No. 369; Highland Park
No. 382; Henry Knox No. 662.
Fixing date ( 1 Lodge): Southern California Research Lodge.
Changing date ( 12 Lodges: King Solomon's No. 260; Arlington
No. 414; York No. 423; James A. Garfield No. 566; Truth No. 628;
Benevolence No. 631; San Gorgonio No. 668; Verdugo Hills No. 727;
Centennial No. 729; San Dieguito No. 775; General Henry H. Arnold
No. 791; Camellia No. 805.
Provision for legal holidays ( 7 Lodges): East Belt No. 391; Covenant No. 527; Tujunga No. 592: Citro! No. 656; George E . Tutt No.
722; Leland Stanford No. 784; Ashland No. 798.
RESOLUTIONS FOR REMOVAL OF PLACE OF MEETING

(California Masonic Code, Sections 372, 373, 18 Lodges):
Los Angeles No. 42; Santa Rosa No. 57; Curtis No. 140; Welcome No.
255; Palestine No. 351; Arlington No. 414: Chino Valley No. 427:
Mount Olive No. 506; Utopia No. 537; Hemet No. 615; Truth No. 628;
Benevolence No. 631: Florence No. 649: Verdugo Hills No. 727; Luther
Burbank No. 752; Arabic No. 763; San Dieguito No. 775; Conejo Valley
No. 807.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

All of the foregoing were found in order, with these exceptions:
UNIFORM CODE OF BY -LAWS:
1. Obsolete form used: Anacapa Lodge No. 710-Sec. 339 C.M.C.
2. Approved, subject to clarification and possible amendment of
Section 343 C.M.C.: San Benito No. 211; Brawley No. 402.
FEES:
1. Increasing fees: Vote at meeting next succeeding notice: Composite No. 639-Sec. 365 C.M.C.
DUES:
1. Increasing dues: Vote at meeting next succeeding notice: Sec.
365 C.M.C.: Certificate of amendment incomplete: Sec. 366 C.M.C.:
Culver City No. 467. Vote at meeting next succeeding notice: Sec. 365
C.M.C.: Curtis No. 140.
REMOVAL OF MEETING PLACE:
Non-compliance with Sec. 372 C.M.C.: No certification that twothirds of members present voted in favor of resolution: Curtis No. 140.
Improper certification, failure to state facts indicating compliance: Welcome No. 255.
Your Committee is happy to report that all Lodges whose Proceedings were not approved at the 1961 Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge have since complied with the law in all respects and their action
is now approved.
We suggest that applications for changes of by-laws by constituent
Lodges be presented in sufficient copies that one copy thereof can be
referred to the Committee on By-Laws at the time of such application
for approval.
Your Committee further suggests that the constituent Lodges be
required to use the certification form in Section 366 C.M.C., which
forms are available at the Grand Secretary's office, when applying
for approval of an amendment to their by-laws.
An additional suggestion of your Committee is that a certi.Bcate
form, similar in purpose to that in Section 366 C.M.C., be prepared
for use of constituent Lodges asking approval of resolutions for removal
or change of meeting place, pursuant to Sections 372 or 373 C.M.C.,
and that this form clearly indicate which of the two sections of the Code
is involved. Such a certificate form, prepared by the Grand Secretary's
office, would be of great assistance to the constituent Lodges.
We find that Section 343 C.M.C. has been variously interpreted.
We, therefore, suggest that it be clarified for the benefit of the constitu~
ent Lodges.
The Committee wishes to express its sincere appreciation to the
overwhelming majority of Lodges who have carefully followed the

158

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

California Masonic Code and it should be pointed out that all of the
suggestions contained in this report are made. not only to assist the
constituent Lodges but also the office of our Grand Secretary.
We move the appro val by Grand Lodge of the foregoing amendments
and resolutions with exceptions above enumerated and the adoption of
this report.
Respectfully submitted ,

w.

THOMAS
THURMAN
VIRL BEN NEHOPP
ALDEN J. FULKERSON
CHARLES BECKER
HERB ERT H. COOPER
BERNARD H. RAAB
HORA CE W. OREAR, JR.

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General
Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History presents the following report:
The members of the Committee unanimously express their appreciation to the Grand Lodge and especially to our Grand Master, Brother
Guy B. Mize, for the privilege of serving. We have found the Grand
Master to be friendly. cooperative, sympathetic and understanding and
it has been an enjoyable experience to serve under him this year.
ITEM 1. In the original, first Proceedings of this Grand Lodge. the
Grand Secretary is listed in rank above the Grand Treasurer. In the
reprint of these Proceedings, in 1858. the ranking is reversed and these
Officers rank as they do today. There is no explanation for this reversal.
Brother Stanley Gustavson. of this Committee. did some research and
found that the original ra nking of these two Officers was intentional
and was no mistake. At the time. 1850, the Grand Lodge of the District
of Columbia, one of our three original Grand Lodges, ranked their Secretary above the Treasurer. as was true of their constituent Lodge.
California No. 13, now our California No. 1, and this ranking continued for several years a fter 1850. When or why the change was made
to the present order of ranking we do not know as the Proceedings a re
silent on this point. All the other grand jurisdictions. in 1850, ranked
their Officers as we now do. We report on this merely as a matter of
historical interest. because the transposition has been bafflling.
ITEM 2. During 1961, there existed a special Grand Lodge Committee on Historical Monuments which this year Grand M aster Mize
combined with the History Committee a nd which reported at the last
Grand Lodge session as follows, in part: " ..• It is ... the recommenda-

\

159

tion of this Committee that the Grand Lodge offer its assistance in furnishing designs for the installation of fire proof safes or vaults (for the
preservation of valuable. historical rec~rds) to be .constructed by the
members of the Lodges, of sufficient size to contam these records •. It
as clearly indicated to your Committee that these Lodges are askmg
~r technical advice and are not soliciting financial a id from Grand
Lodge."
The History Committee has stood ready at all times to give all
possible assistance to the Lodges when called upon to do so and not
ne call has been neglected nor one request turned down but we must
0
dvise that we have not had a single call for technical advice such as
:as proposed in the Report of the Masonic Mon~ments Committee. In
the balance of their report, they pointed out that m many Lodges valuable records were unprotected and in danger of loss by fire: lndee.d, the
records of the History Committee amplify and substantiate this observation. It is presumed that this regrettable condition still persists. If
your Lodge wishes technical advice on the preservation of records. we
suggest that you solicit assistance throug~ the Grand Secretary who
will refer your inquiry to the proper committee.
ITEM 3. We conceive it to be the primary function of a History
Committee to write history as it is made. on the spot. at the time'. As .a
matter of routine work, we are maintaining a running file on all historical occasions as they occur. One or more members of the Committee
has been in attendance on all history-making events. They have been
written up as a report on the event and filed in the Committee's files
for future reference.
A secondary function of the History Committee, as we see it, is to
study the history of our past in order to learn it; to uncover any mist~~es
in our historical archives and to correct them to the best of our ability
so fut ure historians may not make or copy the same errors. W~ co~~
ceive it to be our obligation to teach the Craft about our California
historical heritage so they. too. may s hare with pride the progress that
Freemasonry has made since coming to this Stat~. This .we h.ave a~­
tempted to do through speakers, speaking on histor1~al sub1ect~ m California Masonry; in the publication of papers on history subiects, and
in the showing of colored, illustrated slides. As in the past. several
committee members have appeared a t various places throughout the
jurisdiction on b ehalf of two of these phases of hi7,tory education . The
colored slide-lecture of pioneer Lodges and people . SOME CAME BY
LAND AND SOME CAME BY SEA." is still being requested by
Lodges and Masonic Districts in Northern and Southern California and
we have filled all such requests.
Two new illustrated lectures are in preparation and will shortly he
ready for release. They are titled, "THE TRAGEDY OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

160

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

CRABB EXPED ITION ," and "PION EER FREEM ASON RY IN
SOUT HERN CALIF ORNIA ." Work on "The Crabb Expedit ion,"
is nearly complete. Not so advance d is "Pionee r Masonr y in Souther n
Califor nia," principally because we had to await completion of the old
Lodge Hall of Los Angele s No. 42, which was dedicated on August
28th last. These two lectures will be made available to the Lodges on
a loan basis. That is, upon application a Lodge or Masoni c District
may receive the pictures through the mail. A manuscript will accompany
the slides which can be read as the slides are shown. In this case the
Lodges need a reader, a projectionist and a suitable screen and projector.
Also, these two lectures will be given with a lecturer, upon application.
He will bring his own equipment and will lecture as the pictures are
shown. A bulletin to all the Lodges will shortly be sent out describing
how these lectures may be obtained.
The tragedy of the Crabb expedition occurred in 1857 at Caborc a,
a small village about one hundre d miles south of the Arizona border in
the State of Sonora, Mexico. There were seventy -eight members in the
expedition, most of whom were outstan ding and well known citizens of
Northe rn Califor nia communities. as well as Officers and members of
Masoni c Lodges in Californ ia and elsewhere. In a six-day armed encounter with units of the Mexica n army, they were forced to surrend er
to the Mexica ns on April 6, 1857, and on the next morning, April 7th,
they were shockingly killed to a man. Maniy of our Lodges and people
of the towns were horrified. The incident took on nationa l importance
through the intervention of the State Departm ent at Washin gton. Because the expedition was immediately labelled "a filibustering affair,"
which it was not, it was spoken of in hushed tones and in the Grand
Lodge Communication of May, 1857, no mention was made at all except
veiled allusions by the Grand Master, William Henry Howard , in his
address to the Grand Lodge. After a time the matter died down altogether and was forgotten. Several Lodges, on learning of the death of
one of their members at Caborc a, spread the death notice on the minutes
and in at least one instance appoint ed a committee to investigate the
tragedy . Throug h two of these minutes, at Martine z and Benecia, the
Grand Lodge Committee on Masoni c History learned of the affair in
1948, while prepari ng material for "l 00 Years of Freema sonry in California." During the past fourteen years, the Committee has research ed
the incident, including a visit to Caborc a and the extensive taking of
pictures of landma rks about the town that prominently figured in the
affair. It is these pictures, supplem ented by some local views, which
comprise our lecture which tells the true and complete story of the entire
incident, including its shocking aspects. Up to the present, the expenses
incurred in the development of this story have been home by the individual Committee members, at no cost to the Grand Lodge.

161

ITEM 4. The historical records of the Grand Lodge consist almost
entirely of the Proceedings. These volumes contain all the transactions
of the Grand Lodge proper to be written as well as irreplacable statistical material. In 1857, when it was clearly apparen t to the then Grand
Secreta ry, Brother Alex Abell, that an insufficient number of copies of
Proceed ings were being printed each year, he request ed and received
permission of the Grand Lodge to i'eprint the first seven years, at his
own expense, and by 1858 the invento ry of Proceed ings was ample for
foreseeable generat ions to come. Each year, the Grand Secreta ry carefully estimates future needs and orders enough copies to meet the
estimate. Even so, due to unforeseen demand s and other factors, the
number of copies made has not always been sufficient. Your Committee
regi'ets to report that a situation confron ts us today which, to historians
and, we believe, to the Grand Officers, is most alarming. For thirteen
of the years, out of the past 111 years, there are no extra copies in
reserve at all, the only two copies in our hands being in the Grand
Secreta ry's and the Grand Lodge Library collections. Volume s for several other years are in extremely short supply. To meet the needs of
future generat ions there ought to be at least one hundre d copies of
each year's Proceed ings in our inventory. To reprint just these thirteen
volumes alone, as was done in 1857, it is estimat ed the cost today would
be close to fifteen thousan d dollars. Based on considerable observation,
this Committee feels that old Proceed ings in the hands of the Lodges
find very little use. Many volumes are buried away in closets and attics.
With the loan and mail service now in effect by the Grand Lodge
Library, any student of Masonr y or Officer of a Lodge, can borrow
books from the library merely for the asking and with a sufficient number of Proceed ings on hand there is no reason why they, too, could not
be borrow ed. In order to avoid the cost of reprinting, this Committee
recommends that each constitu ent Lodge make a donation of its collection of Proceed ings to the Grand Lodge of California. It is well known
that hundred s of copies of P.roceedings in the Lodges have been destroyed by Bre, by rodents, and lost by forgetful borrowers. It is an
absolut e certaint y that they would be well protecte d in this building
. and preserv ed for student s and researchers. We suggest that Masters
and Senior Warde ns present make a note of this recommendation and
bring the suggest ed donatio n of these badly needed records before your
Lodge for appropr iate action.
It has been a custom that the incoming Grand Master be furnished
with a complete set of Proceed ings for his own persona l use, to be returned to the Grand Lodge upon his death. Due to lack of underst anding
of the heirs, they have not always been returne d and in some cases are
disposed of with the Past Grand Master 's library collection, thus being
lost to the Grand Lodge. It is our recommendation that in future all

162

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

copies of Proceedings loaned out by the Grand Lodge be stamped in
several places, in indelible ink, "Property of the Grand Lodge of Califorina, F. & A. M .. San Francisco, California."
ITEM 5. A matter requiring some negotiations, and which we are
extremely happy to report here today, was the acquisition by gift of
113 pieces of Lodge papers comprising all that remains of the records
of old Violet Lodge No. 138, formerly located at Spanish Flat, California. Violet Lodge was dispensated in 1859 and surrendered its
charter in October, 1879. These papers were presented to the Grand
Lodge as a gift by Brother E. 0. Sawyer, Jr., (retired Lieutenant Colonel U.S.A.) of Hollywood, California. A member of the Committee
first found the papers in a book store, in San Francisco, where they were
for sale. He prevailed upon the book dealer to furnish the name of the
owner of the papers. Negotiations with Brother Sawyer resulted in him
donating the papers to the Grand Lodge. They were appraised to a
value of $750 and since the donation actually was made to the Masonic
Homes of California, a charitable organization, it was income tax deductible in that amount by the donor. However, the value of the papers
lies in their rarity as well as in their historical value as these are the
only papers of a gold rush Lodge. or any Lodge. becoming extinct prior
to the fire and earthquake of 1906, in possession of the Grand Lodge.
All similar records , material. libraries, etc .. were destroyed by the fire
which followed the earthquake. The papers of Violet Lodge reveal a
typical. true story of life in a gold camp Masonic Lodge. The name.
"Violet," has perplexed the Committee as it has no known Masonic
connotation and the papers fail to reveal why or how this particular
name came to be chosen. It remains open only to surmise and conjecture
which, your Committee hopes, was pleasant in the contemplation to the
members of Violet Lodge.
Conclusion. The Committee wishes to report that it was not found
necessary to spend the entire two thousand dollars appropriation which
was budgeted for our use this past year and about twelve hundred dollars
was turned back to the general fund of the Grand Lodge on July 1,
last. In consequence, we are reducing our request for funds this year
and ask that the sum of $1200 be appropriated for our use during the
coming Masonic Year and hereby request this amount.
Respectfully submitted,

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL AT LOS ANGELES

0. J. WOHLGEMUTH
LEON 0. WHITSELL
KENNETH H. DOWNS
KENNETH B. CONKLIN
FRANK EVERETT
HORACE H. BLAIR
STANLEY E. GUSTAVSON
Referred to Committee on Finance.

163

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
We are pleased to repo rt that a lease on the second floor Lodge
Room of the restored Old Masonic Hall has been executed between
Grand Lodge and the State of California, as owner, and the City of
Los Angeles, as operator, of Pueblo de Los Angeles State H istorical
Monument. A copy of the lease is on file in the Grand Lodge office. The
lease is similar in general terms to that which exists between Grand
Lodge and the State on the Masonic Temple at C olumbia.
.
On August 25, last, Grand Lodge, under the direction of Most Worshipful Guy B. Mize, Grand Master, met on the site at 416 N~rth .M ain
Street. In the presence of a large gathering of Masons and their friends,
together with City and State officials, the Grand Master laid a cornerstone and dedicated a plaque in the restored Lodge Room.
With the execution of the lease and the completion of the ceremonies
by Grand Lodge, we had anticipated that we could ask that this Committee be discharged. However. certain minor but necessary wor~ on
the building remains to be done and the members of your ~om m1ttee
feel that we should continue to cooperate with the Construction Supervisor for the State until the restoration of the Hall is fully and finally
completed.
Therefore, we recommend the continuation of this Special Committee for another y~ar.
Under the terms of the lease we are required to pay for all utilities
and provide janitorial service. It is anticipated that the Lodge Room
will be rented to Lodges for special occasions at a rental figure to be
determined. The Committee recommends an appropriation of $1,000.00
as an operating expense fund. against which will be credited all receipts
from rentals.
The other members of this Committee again wish to express their
appreciation to Matthew M. Codon, Past Master of Los Angeles Lodge
No. 42, who has been a member of the Committee from its inception.
Brother Codon has been untiring in his work with S tate and City officials
and the successful completion of our participation in this project has
been due largely to his elf orts.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
MATTHEW M. CODON
L EO E. ANDERSON

Referred to Committee on Finance.

164

165

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COMMERCIALISM

rosters be limited to strictly Masonic usages as required by our law. This
atte.r is now under consideration by our Grand Master.
111
A considerable portion of your Committee's activities are in connection with appendant bodies seeking support of the public in sales
of tickets to shows, carnivals, dinners, bazaars, rummage sales, etc. One
organization, in particular, offended when several of its units advertised
affairs at which liquor would be served. Attention of the offending groups
was immediately called to our laws, rules and regulations, and assurances
were received that there would be no further violations.
A cemetery in this State, established some ninety years ago by a
Masonic Lodge for Masons, over the years has gradually lost its Masonic
characteristics and for some years has been open for burials to all Caucasians despite the fact that it still carries the word "Masonic" in its
corporate title. Our Grand Master has been in correspondence with the
responsible parties to have the word " Masonic" removed from its title.
Masonry, either from ignorance, indifference, or inadvertance on
the part of certain individuals who should know better, has a difficult
time to keep its name free from the taint of commercialism. Unceasing
vigilance is necessary if we are ever to blot out this stain.
Your Committee desires to express its sincere thanks and apprecia~
tion to those Grand Lodge Officers, Inspectors and other members of
the Craft who were so generous of their time and were helpful when
called on for assistance. To our Grand Master, Most Worshipful G uy
Mize, our special thanks and appreciation for his forbearing advice,
kindly counsel and assistance. He has been most helpful. Your Committee feels highly honored and pleased to have had the honor to have
worked and served with him.
Respectfully submitted.

To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Once more your Committee on Commercialism takes pleasure ·
.reporting the continued reduction in the number of violations of 0 ::;
law. rules and regulations. Occasionally schemes on the borderline were
presented for ~pproval but when our law was made known were dropped.
Now and again an appendant organization will slip, which when called
to our attention is promptly followed up so as to prevent a recurrenc
~t appe~r~ obvious that these slips are the result of new blood comin~
mto ac~1v1ty and the failure of the past Officers to properly pass on ou.r
regulations. Our constituent Lodges and the concordant bodies have
so far as we know, been singularly free from error. At least no seriou~
deviations have been called to our attention.
Until very recently our greatest problem has been with out of state
so-called Masonic publications, privately owned, which use the long
distance phone and high-pressure sales personnel to sell their advertising space. Your Committee was able to counteract some of this activity.
One of the greatest offenders was a magazine published in the midwest, the owner of which was a member of the Craft. Because of his
activity. by action of his Grand Lodge, he has been expelled from the
Mason~c Frat.ernity. Certain other Masons whose names were being
used d1sassoaated themselves from all connection with the magazine.
We un~erstand a~so that certain mailing privileges which the magazine
had enio~ed previously were cancelled. The publication is now greatly
changed m format, man·y of its features which were obnoxious to our
Fraternity have been eliminated, and of recent times we have had little
or no complaint of its activities.
There is another such magazine published in a nearby state which
has sporadically attempted to invade this Jurisdiction in its solicitation.
~hey also use long distance phone high pressure methods though occa.g1onally a salesman will travel this State. We are watching its activities
closely. and taking such action as is considered proper, which procedure
we feel is bearing fruit.
.. We ?~.ar ru~or~ from time to time of attempts to set up so-called
Masonic publications within the State but so far as we have been able
t? ascertain such attempts have not been success£ ul. One such publication endeavored to establish exchange relations with another Grand
Jurisdiction and asked for its authority to reprint from the Grand Lodge
publication which was refused.
Another matter which has been active is the subject of rosters. There
are two phases involved. The first is the warning required in accordance
with Section 684 ( b) of our ordinances, the unified wording of which
was established by Past Grand Master Breslauer. The second phase
relates to what information is proper to be included in order that such

V1N c ENT P. McMuRoo
WILLARD A. BR.a.ASCH
JACK L. BLAINE
H.a.RVEY HARKNESS
ALBERT H. BENNISON

Adopted.

166

167

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE

Endowment Board or a member of that Board d esignated by him. The
esent members of the Investment Committee are:
~THURM. WARREN, P.G.M ..... -----····-·----····---·----··--·-···Grand Treasurer
p=uL A. PFLUEGER, P.M ................ ---·-·--·---··········Asst. _Grand Treas~rer
Chairman ' Finan ce Committee
F ANK HARWELL. JR., PG
• • M ...... .............
RV STEWART, JR ., P.G.M .........................President, Board of .Trustees
E· ·
Ma sonic Homes
JoHN M. GORDON, P.M ...............................Chairman, Endowment Board
The Grand Secretary, Edward H. Siems, P.G.M .. acts as Secretary
of the Committee.
.
.
By Ordinance. under Section 246 (formerly 86) with respect to investment of Grand Lodge funds, and Section 403 ( fo~merly 1 ~~.1)
respecting investments by Constituent Lodges, the following prov1s1ons
prevailed as of June 30. 1962 :
GROUP I. At ]east 20% of the funds available for investment must

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Investment Committee concludes its twelfth year of activity,
and herewith renders its report for the twelve months ending June 30,
1962. Each year's report gives a certain amount of historical background
and basic information, which should be helpful to those attending Grand
Lodge for the first time.
The Prudent Man Rule in modified form was adopted by Grand
Lodge at its 1950 Communication. For the Constituent Lodges a Prudent
Man Rule was adopted in 1951.
The Investment Committee of Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
was formed for the purpose of administering the investable funds of
Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of California, and the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund. The Committee does not supervise the investments of Constituent Lodges, but Grand Lodge makes the services
of its investment advisor available to the Lodges. Many Lodges are now
making use of this service, as evidenced by the fact that a total of 276
Lodges have made inquiry regarding the service. Under recent date
Moody's Investors Service reported as follows:
"We have files on a total of 276 Lodges and of this number we
consider 163 to be active, the balance inactive. * * The so-called inactive
Lodges are those w here we have received no response from the Lodge
itself to our periodic requests for a statement of investments and available cash. In these cases we have made certain to write to the Lodge
secretary now in office before removing the name of the Lodge from the
active list.
"Lodges making initial inquiry of us during the past year amounted
to nine.
.. At the time of our last interim report on May 14, 1962. the approximate total market value of the portfolios of the active Lodges stood at
$7,920.000. This compares with a figure of $6,470,000 one year earlier.
"Activity has been fairly constant during the year with some 278
requests from the Lodges for portfolio reviews, 46 telephonic consultations, nine personal visits to our office, plus some 346 written communications."
The Investment Committee hopes that the Lodges are making full
use of this valuable service.
The Investment Committee is composed of the Grand Treasurer, the
Assistant Grand Treasurer . the Chairman of the Finance Committee. the
President of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees or a Trustee of that
Board designated by him, and the Chairman of the Masonic Homes

be in:

A) Cash and/or bank accoun ts.
B) Obligations of the United States.

.

..

C) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions.

.

D) Such other securities as are legal investments for savings
bank in California or H awaii (as amended 1959) ·

GROUP II. Up to 20% may be invested in:
.
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an Exchange registe~ed with th_e
Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Secu_nties Exchange. except this listing requirement shall not m.clude railroad equipment trust issues ( 1955) ·
B) Preferred stocks. which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and
E xchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
except that full listing and registration of preferred stock
shall not be requ ired whenever the common stock of the
corporation issuing such preferred stock is fully listed and
registered on such an exchange, provided that such preferred
stock is traded on such an exchange ( 1956) ·
GROUP Ill. Up to 60% may be invested in :
.
A) Common stocks. which must be fully lis_t~d and registered
on an exchange registered with the Secunttes and Exchange
Commission as a N ational Securities Exchange, excep~ that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank an d msur.ance stocks .

168

169

PROCE EDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

B) Share s of Inves tmen t Trus ts.
or State Sav.
C) Share s and/ or certificates of insur ed Fede ral
The amou nt
.
)
1959
and
1957
(
ns
ciatio
ings and Loan Asso
the amou nt
inves ted in any one Asso ciatio n shall not excee d
ance.
cover ed by insur
CON .
(THI S AME NDM ENT APP LIES ONL Y TO
TO
LY
APP
NOT
STIT UEN T LOD GES AND DOE S
DS.)
FUN
GE
LOD
THE INV EST MEN T OF GRA ND
ps II and III, the
With respe ct to the autho rity to inves t in Grou
howe ver, shall be
ts,
tmen
Ordin ance reads as follows: "No such inves
mark et value
total
the
in
t
made which at the time of purch ase will resul
ty per cent
twen
ding
excee
n
sectio
of the securities refer red to in this
bank accash,
the
all
of
value
et
mark
(or sixty per cent) o f the total
there
that
point being
count s and secur ities held, " - the contr olling
the
at
III,
and
ps II
canno t be more than 20% or 60% inves ted in Grou
)
I.
p
Grou
in
ted
inves
time of purch ase. ( 100 % may be of cours e be
were passe d with
At the 1959 Comm unica tion certa in amen dmen ts
Grou ps I and III.
in
ted
inves
be
could
which
s
ntage
respe ct to the perce
incre ased to 60 %. In
Grou p I was reduc ed to 20% and Grou p III was
tion to the following,
this connect-ion, it is very impo rtant to call atten
ittee on Jurisp ruden ce
which is conta ined in the Repo rts of the Commses:
Purpo
ral
Gene
and the Comm ittee on Polioy and
atten tion to the
"You r Comm ittee on Jurisp ruden ce respe ctfull y ca1ls
and is not a
only
fact that this propo sed amen dmen t is permissive
tmen ts unde r
inves
ng
maki
in
directive. Grea t care shoul d be exerc ised
t."
dmen
amen
sed
propo
this
the autho rity grant ed by
recom mend s the
"You r Comm ittee on Polic y and Gene ral Purp oses the Lodg es:
to
nition
adopt ion of Reso lution D-7 but with this admo
is not sugge sted
"A) The autho rity grant ed is permissive only and
tions.
condi
mic
econo
as an inves tmen t guide unde r prese nt
the Lodg es be most
"B) That in maki ng inves tmen ts in Grou p IH autho
rity.
ional
addit
this
circumspect in takin g adva ntage of
of the last
sions
"C) And that they strict ly comply with the provi
and heed
with
lt
consu
,
ances
parag raph of Secti on 403-3 B of our ordin
d Lodge,
Gran
by
used
ors
advis
t
the advice of the profe ssion al inves tmen
e to the
charg
ut
witho
es
Lodg
t
tituen
ble to the Cons
and made availa
individual Lodg e."
of the Comm ittees
The above comments are inclu ded in the repor ts
s.
eding
Proce
1959
the
of
282
page
on
as they appe ar
ded, as follows:
At the 1960 Comm unica tion Section 403 was amen
to be fully listed
"The provisions of this sectio n requi ring securities
ities and ExSecur
the
and regis tered on an excha nge regis tered with
not apply
shall
ange,
chang e Commission as a Natio nal Securities Exch

confined to ~dges
the Hono lulu Stock Exch ange. This excep tion is
Exch ange 1s not
t d in the State of Haw aii." (The Hono lulu Stock
;
Securities and
the
by
ed
defin
as
oca
yeet a Natio nal Secur ities Exch ange,
as
Exch ange Comm ission .)
has met regul arly
·nee its formation the Inves tmen t Comm ittee
bu·s iness of the
the
ngs
edy meeti
eve~ three months. Between quartence
.
one.
teleph
or
Comm ittee is hand led by corre spond
'!'~e
tion.
opera
of
As stated . we have just comp leted twelve years
s
untie
sec
of.
value
et
mark
following is a summ ary of the conso lidate d
on
e
incom
r
dolla
of
d
recor
a
with
owne d. plus inves table cash, toget her
1950, and for each
these inves tmen ts, begin ning with Nove mber 30,
ding the perce ntage
inclu
1962,
30,
June
gh
succeeding fiscal year, throu
income on the mark et value of each year:
0

s

ITIES AND INVES TABLB CASO•
CONSO LIDAT ED MARK ET VALUE OF SECUR
R INCOM E (ln Paren U.-)
DOLLA
AND
(BY GROU PS AND TOTAL S)

In-•

GROU P I
%
Amolll lt

Dat•

GROU P II
%
Amoun t

GROU P lll
%
Amoan t
6.9

S 864,008
1.7
S 102,1'0
92 4
SS 668 829
<•22.05 6)
<U.262 )
•
( s94.2so>
17.2
1.025.7 26
6.5
889.000
76.8
4 668 243
1/ 11/51
( $63,208 )
(Sl'-65 2)
( sH:084 )
27.9
1, 856, 121
8.7
674,096
63.4
4 218 687
8/ 4/ 6Z
(S9UU )
($20,83 2)
( s85'.827 )
29.9
2,208,6 58
1.5
'79,527
U.6
4,698,1 20
7/11/ 68
(1112,8 15)
($19,89 4)
(1102.3 81)
19.0
1,278,8 1'
9.2
771,1'7
51.8
4 151 294
7/ 1116'
(Sl62,0 71)
(S27,96 8)
(196:26 8)
17.8
1,820,0 92
1.7
178,610
65.6
6,680,9 '2
7/ 11/66
($168,8 80)
(124,89 4)
($126,6 21) .
11.5
ll606,0 91
1'.4
1,696,662
54.1
1.011,4 10
T/11/ H
(1160,6 07)
($68,58 8)
($167,1 22)
17.0
4,192.2 91
17.0
81
1,928,1
46.0
5,205,9 H
1/ 80/ 57..
($197 ,678)
(189,39 9)
($168.2 84)
18.9
4,878,8 39
17.9
%,253, 739
41.1
6,197.6 47
1/ IO/ H
($225,8 40)
( $96,9'6 )
($174,6 62)
88. 2
5.270,2 17
18.5
1,864,6 36
48.8
8,664,9 16
1/ 10/ 69
($ 185,864 )
($87,858)
($242,7 11)
28.6
3.837,6 28
17.7
2,879, 050
58.8
7.249,7 80
8/10/80
($ 1'2,283 )
($117,0 31)
($282,5 74)
40.6
1
.589,01
1
18.l
2.961,0 98
41.4
1.741,7 88
1/ 10/ 11
($221,2 22)
($137,9 67)
($246,625)
6-0.I
7 .973,48 5
19.6
8 ,101,090
80.4
15
4,885,1
1/10/ U
($328,2 43)
89)
($147,4
($169,0 26)
I.
Group
In
d
Include
are
•Sarin a• bank depoelt a with interes t earned thereon
+On m&Tke t val••J'lsca l 7ear cbanire d to June 80.

11/ 10/60

~8..t~ 18~. 0°o'0 ~~1;! ~~° Fu: ~~~~"':~a~n;::; tt:
0

0

Pereen t-

•s•

TOTAL S
A.aoan t Retamt
1.97
• 1,124,471
($120,5 98)
2.68
6,072,9 88
(1168,9 19)
.Oii
I
54
6,US,8
(1206,2 72)
1.11
7,381,8 05
(123',6 90)
a.2a
261
,
8,401
($276,2 91)
1.06
10,121, 14'
($809,&45)
11.lU, 108
($871,4 07)
8.92
11.826, 808
($440.8 06)
8.97
626
12,529,
($496,9 48)
1.76
13,789,7 67
($517. 426 )
13,466. 468tt 4.02
($641,8 38)
8.72
16,281, 892
($606,8 14)
890;
15,909,
($639,757 )

....

Fu d

1

:~t of $128,000 withdrawn from the GnLnd Loclae portfolio to fund the
~W:
b&lan. - of Grand Lodae Pensio n Fund.
wa1

d th

!~~I>~m:i DC::O'io"' (tot&J s1~16. ooo
unPLld

at price s yielding
Durin g the past year secu ritie s were sold
the asset value.
asing
incre
by
$440,039.48 more than their cost, there
1950, this total
in
Rule
Man
ent
Since the inaug uratio n of the Prud
capit al asset s
of
part
a
in
rema
ys
a]wa
amou nts to $2,961,646.00. Sales
ct to the Endo wmen t
and are never inclu ded in income totals . With respe
the Fund .
Fund , no capit al asset s are ever withd rawn from

170

Endowment Fund contributions made throu gh the Lodges amounted
to $696,787.15 for the year ended June 30, 1962. Other gifts and bequests for the Masonic Homes amounted to $298,612.00. The Masonic
H omes Board of Trustees determines how these gifts and bequests are
allocated-these alloca tions a r e made in accordance with specific bequests, or in the absence of such, at the direction of the Trustees. The
Endowmen t Fund contributions remain in that Fund, and only the income is used.
The Investment Committee was informed a t the February , 1962,
meeting that two construction projects were to b e undertaken immediately at the Home for Aged at Union City ( Decoto), at a cost of approximately $1.250,000. While the money would not be needed for about
a year, nevertheless the Committee concluded to make funds available
as soon as possible, which was done. The major amount was invested in
one year bank certificates of deposit. Inasmuch as bank savings now earn
interest from date of deposit to date of withdrawal. this too has come in
good stea d for readily available funds.
May we also call attention to the fact that the total portfolio has
increased since November, 1950. from $6,124,471 to $15,909,690, or
about 159.77 %. and a t the same time the income has increased from
$120.598 to $639,757, or 430.49%. As mentioned above, $1,215,000 was
withdrawn for the new Decoto hospital in the year ending June 30, 1960,
and $128,000 was withdrawn in the year ending June 30, 1962, to fund
the unpaid balance of the Grand ·L odge Pension Fund.
May it also be mentioned that in spite of some decline in prices and
one Grand Lodge withdrawal. investment ·i ncome as of June 30, 1962,
is greater than the preceding year-$639, 757 in 1962 vs. $605,814
in 1961.
The followi ng is the consolida ted investment portfolio of Grand
Lodge. with the market values as of June 30, 1962, divided into the various gr oups, and showing the percentage o f each group, together with
the income return for each gr oup on the ma rket value:
GRAND LODGE F. &: A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
CONSOLIDATED PORTFOLIO - JUNE 30, 1962
(Market Value••)
Market
Value

GROUP I
Cash ............................................$ 897,182
Bank certificates of deposit ....
600,000
Bonds:
U. S. Government .................... 2,696,353
Municipals ..................................
92,000
Railroad Equipment ................
535,000
Public Utility ............................
14,580
Total Bonds ............................$ 3,337,933
TOTAL GROUP I ................$ 4,835,115

171

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

P er Cent

lnc:ome

5.64
3.77

$ 31,401 •
24,000

Rl"turn on
M arket

$113,624
$169,025

Bonds:

Railroads .................................... $
Railroad Equipment ............... .
Industrials-convertible ........

39,790
50,000
348,974

Total Bonds ............................$

438,764

$ 2,076

1,750
16,216

2.76

Preferred Stocks:

5,300
44,101
66,522
11,524

Railroad ......................................$ 109,500
920,969
Public Utility ............................
Industrials .................................. 1,375,757
256,100
Convertibles ............................. .

Total Preferred Stocks ........$ 2,662,326
TOTAL GROUP II ............$ 3,101 ,090
GROUP III

16.73
19.49

Common Stocks:

$127,447
$147,489

4.79%

$ 52,562

Public Utility .....- .....................$ 1,211,229
Industrials .................................. 4,333,723
Finance ...................................... 2,151,033
Railroad ......................................
277,500
TOTAL GROUP III
COMMON ..........................$ 7 ,973,485
TOTAL PORTFOLIO ..........$15,909,690

$ 20,042

182,781
71,050
16,850
50.12
100.00

$323,243
$639,757

4.05%
4.02%

• At BY,%.
•
•
fl
d
.. In U,e above 1chedul" the railroad equipment tru"t issues
ar~ figured at pnr. If they "eh
g~~
at market, the total value of the portfolio would be noproximately $10,000 lees t han t e a
e
of $15,909,690.

We have three principal accounts, the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund the M asonic Homes General Fund, plus the several smaller funds
of th~ Masonic Homes, and the Grand Lodge F . & A. M . of California.
The record is kept by Moody's as one total fund, thereby reducing our
cost very materia lly. However, Grand Lodge records are kept separate
as to each fund, as are the records of the Investment Committee. As a
matter of interest, we list here the market value of the portfolios of the
individual funds, together with t he income and yield at market prices:
Total Value•

Masonic Homes Endowment Fund .................... $11,739,471
Masonic Homes General Fund ............................ 3,075,145
Masonic Homes Fli_nt Fund ............;....................
325,788
Masonic Homes Brigham Scholarsmp Fund....
40,105
Masonic Homes Residents' Fund ........................
39,069
Masonic Homes Luckenbach Fund ....................
69,543
Masonic Homes Wadleigh Fund..........................
12,085
Masonic Homes Perine Fund ..............................
15,850
Masonic Homes Student Loan Fund ..................
12,404
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California ................ 553,718

Income•
$477,374
113,583
13,744
1,423
1,730
3,217
411
600
550
24,194

Yield•
4.07%
3.~~

4.
3. 55
4.i3
4.
3. 4
79
.50
4.37

l·

ii

(* n• of J u ue 30 1962 including lnvestable caoh. Interest ou •aving1 account•, investable cash
only, is figured ~t SJ;So/o. In thie table railroad equipment is~ues are figured at pretent market
values. All of these fi gures are 88 of June 30, 1962, and the y1_eld on the Investments would vary
during t he year, de pending upon t h e ma ny factors which are mvolved.)

94,318
3,095
15,716
495
20.98
30.39

GROUP II

3.50%

The M asonic Homes of California holds various Masonic Temple
shares or certificates, listed as follows:
I share Santa Ana Masonic Temple Assn. Ltd capital stock
2
shares Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockton capital stock
9 shares Dunsmuir Masonic Temple Assn. capital stock

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
f~tL s~ares Masonic Hall Association ot Alameda capital stock
T~

1
1
20

s ares Bakersfield_ Masonic Te?lple Assn. capital stock
cert. of membership s.an G~bn~l Masonic Temple Assn.
cert. for 10 f!lemberships ~i~ Vista Masonic Temple Assn. Inc.
certs. Masoruc H all Association of Ontario
'

These evidences of debt or certifica tes are owned by the Mas ·
Homes of California. It would be appreciated if negotiations were un~:~~
taken by those Lodges or Temple Associations who could afford t
redee~ these certifk.ates. The Investment Committee would great~
appreciate your consideration of this request. Just write to the Grand
Secretary for further information.
. Th_e entire portfolio is listed in the Auditor's Report and, therefore,
is not included herein. The securities are held in safekeeping for Grand
Lodge by the Trust Department of the Crocker Anglo National Bank
at its One Montgomery Street Office, San Francisco.
'
We have had excellent attendance at our Investment Committee
meetings. as has been the case in the past.
It hard~y seems necessary to tell this Grand Lodge about the state
of unc~rtamty which exists in so many facets of our economy. What
was said last year can be repeated here, as follows:
The Investment Committee continues on a conservative course and
endeavors to _keep in as close touch with economic conditions as is
human.ly possible. As previously stated, conditions are ever changing,
an~ this statement can certainly be repeated this year. There i>S so much
written about economic conditions and world affairs that it hardly seems
necessary to add anything further. Both domestic and international
factors mus~ be taken into consideration. Fortunately, we can and must
be very fl~x~ble. It wo~ld be ·impossible to enumerate the many important
and conflicting essentials which arise in rapid succession.
To t~e ~hove one should now add that problems have increased with
the contmumg cost-price squeeze and its effect on profits, the balance
of payments, loss of gold, the Common Market. high taxes, big government bud~ets and f:dera~ deficits-these are all current problems which
are taken m~o cons1~erat1on when investing money.
We agam me_nt1~n_ that _our course of action can be quite different
from t?at of the md1v1dual mvestor. This is said so as not to influence
you with respect to your personal actions.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary
and my thanks to the members of the Investment Committee for thei;
wholehearted and generous cooperation at all times.
·
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Investment CommitteePAUL A. PFLUEGER
ARTHUR M . WARREN
EDGAR V. STEWART, }R.
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
Adopted.
JoHN M. GORDON

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

173

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
LODGE FINANCING
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
The Committee on Lodge Financing respectfully submits its report
for the past year. A review of the activities of the Committee during this
period indicates definite progress in the construction, maintenance and
operation of Masonic Temple properties. This excellent progress is reflected in the annual financial s tatements >Submitted by the Masonic
Temple associations relative to their financial transactions a nd other
matters relating to Masonic T emple construction and operation. During
the past year 255 Temple associations and Lodges have submitted financial statements, pursuant to the requirements of Section 200 of the
Masonic Code. These financial statements reveal tha t each year more
and more interest is being taken in the proper efficient business and
financial affairs of Masonic Lodges, and as a result of this interest there
is a constant diminishing of the number of Lodges and Temple associations operating at a loss, while the vast majority of Lodges are now
indicating a n income in excess of expenditures in their operations. This
is resulting in the establishment of necessary cash reserves and. more
importantly , the s etting up of actual cash depreciation accounts that will
be so beneficial to the Lodges in the future. The financial reports definitely indicate the effectiveness of Temple associations in conducting
the financial affairs of the Lodges.
During the past year the Committee on Lodge Financing has received, processed and approved 67 applications for consent to purchase
property, start construction , make capital im provements upon existing
properties and other matter's in connection w ith the operation of their
Temple facilities. The Committee granted consent to 10 requests to
trans fer funds from Lodges to Temple associations for the purpose of
building, improving and maintaining their properties; 15 requests to
purchase property for the construction of their own Masonic Temples;
l 0 requests to form non-profit Temple associations; 14 requests to make
capital improvements and 10 requests to start construction on their new
Masonic homes. In all, including miscellaneous items. Committee action
was required on approximately 100 transactions.
The Committee wishes to commend the various Lodges and Temple
associations for their interest and their full cooperation in all matters
relating to the business affairs of their facilites. Also. to commend the
brethren for their earnest endeavor to fully comply with the requirements
of the Internal Revenue Service and the Franchise Tax Board in ma tters
relating to their tax status. The Temple corporations are making the
required amendments to their Articles of Incorporation , if necessary. in
order to definitely establish and maintain their tax exempt status for
non-profit ('.Orporations.

174

175

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee wishes to direct the attention of the Lodges and
Temple associations to the importance of having ample insurance coverage on their facilities. It has been discovered in some instances that the
item of workmen's compensatio n (required by State Law ) is not included in insurance schedules. Such insurance is most important to protect anyone engaged in the construction and maintenance of the Temple
and its lack might well prove to be very costly and embarrassin g. It is
the suggestion of this Committee that the insurance structure be reviewed from time to time to determine that it is in proper order.
The Grand Lodge presently has implemente d a group insurance
program for fire coverage on Masonic Temples. In most instances it
provides broader coverage at less premium cost. It is strictly a voluntary
program made available to Temple managemen t and/ or Lodges. It was
submitted in answer to many inquiries on the subject.
The volume of corresponde nce has been, as usual. extremely heavy
and the Committee has made innumerable visits to Lodges and Temple
associations at their request to discuss, advise and consult with them
relating to problems confronted in their Temple financial programs.
These meetings have been most fruitful and in all instances solutions
to the problems have been satisfactoril y consummate d. The Committee
intends to continue meeting with the brethren and assisting whenever
called upon in order to aid them in any manner possible regarding their
Temple affairs.
The yearly activities of the Committee are set forth in detail on the
following pages of this repor t and will be included in the published
proceedings .

TABLE MouNTAIN LoDGE No. 124
Committee consent granted to application to transfer $4,000. from
Lodge funds to the Temple !"ssoci~tio~ , and to start construction of
new Temple, as outlined in said application.
.
Consent granted to borrow $18,000 from Ba~k of Ame~1ca to c~m­
plete construction and furnishing of new Masonic Temple m Paradise.

HONOLULU MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Application presented for Committee consent to expend $6,000 to
install an air condition unit. Moved by Bond, seconded by Holbert that
consent be granted subject to filing with the Committee a copy of the
minutes of the Association authorizing the expenditure .
Application approved for the expenditure of not to exceed $12,000
for improvemen t purposes on the Masonic Temple in Honolulu. Motion
carried.
SUNSET-MIZ PAH MASONIC TEMPLE Assoc1ATION

Consent granted to application to install elevator in Sunset-Miz pah
Masonic Temple at estimated cost of $10,840; also, consent to secure
loan of $5,000 from Pierce Investment Co. to complete installation.
NATOMA LooGE No . 61

Application approved to borrow not to exceed $15,000 to complete
construction of new Temple.

WooDBRIDG E LoDGE No . 131
Consent granted to the formation of the Woodbridg e Masonic
Temple Association, and to the transfer of $60,564.40 from Lodge funds
to the T emple Association .
.
Application approved to purchase additional property adjacent to
present Temple site for the sum of $20,000. Said property to be used
for present and future Masonic purposes.
VACAVILLE LoDGE No . 134
Consent granted to application to form the Vacaville Masonic
Temple Association, subject to the trans£ er of at least $100 from Lodge
funds to the Temple Association.
. .
Consent granted to purchase exiosting property and Temple build1~g
in Vacaville; purchase price of $45,000 on terms of $1.0,000 down with
balance of $35.000 to be paid in 10 years at 5 per cent interest. .
Consent granted to purchase property for Temple construc~10n p~r­
poses for $35,000 pursuant to conditions and terms set forth m option
to purchase.
CURTIS LooGE No. 110
General discussion re building program. Committee consent requested to transfer $4,000 note payable to Bank of America from Lodge
to Temple Association ; also, consent to transfer title of property from
Lodge to Temple Association. On motion by Sturm, seconded by Crase,
consent granted.
.
Consent granted to borrow additional $2,000, makmg a total loan
from bank of $4,000 to complete purchase of property for Lodge purposes in Cloverdale.
ORLAND LooGE No. 265
Consent granted to purchase additional property adjacent to existing Masonic Temple in the sum of $20,000.
MouNT SHASTA LooGE No. 281
Application approved to purchase property for Masonic purposes in
Anderson as recommende d by Committeem an George Sturm.
SouTH WEST LoDGE No. 283
Application presented to purchase property at est~mated_ cost. of
$20,000. Said property now in estate being probated. It ts. the mtentton
of the holding company to place bid for the property m the stated
amount. Moved by Holbert, seconded by Bond, that consent be granted

176

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

for purchase and that the sum of $1.650 be expended to secure the purchase provided the bid is accepted. Motion carried.

provided that no funds be transferred from the Lodge to the Temple
Association without Committee consent.

Los GATos LODGE No. 292

Cov1NA LooGE No. 334
Application presented for consent to form non-profi t corporation
and to transfer $4,000 from Lodge funds to the newly formed Temple
Association. Moved by Becker, seconded by Susman, that Committee
consent be granted subject to receipt of the following :
1. Submit additional complete financial statements, including rental
schedule.
2. Informa tion re amount of fire insurance.
3. Information re depreciation account establishment.
4. Explanation of Temple building fund.
Motion carried.
PALO ALTO LoocE No. 346
Discussion re expenditures previously made without Committee consent consisting of approximately $28,000 for air conditioning unit and
$5,000 for marquee as outlined in letter from Brother Blacker dated
September 6, 1961. After lengthy review it was moved by Bond. seconded by Crase that Committee action be taken approving such expenditures, ,s ubject to the condition that no further funds be expended, contracts or leases entered into, without first securing consent of the Committee.
GoLDEN STATE LooGE No. 358
Consent gran.ted to readjust existing loan with Bank of America in
order to place loan on a more reasonable repayment basis.

Consent granted to make necessary alterations in Los Gatos Masonic
Temple and to transfer $3,000 from Lodge funds to the Hall Corporation for such purpose.
SILVER GATE LoDGE No. 296
Consent granted to expend $4,500 to remodel existing projection
room to provide necessary additional space in the existing Lodge area.
LIBERTY LoDGE No. 299
Consent granted to application to transfer $6,000 from Lodge funds
to the Temple Associa tion for the purpose of completing the new Masonic Temple in Santa Clara.
Committee consent granted to application to transfer $10,000 from
Lodge funds to Temple Association to be used in completion of new
Temple; also, consent to proceed with completion at estimated cost of
$32,000.
REDLANDS LODGE No. 300
Consent granted to alter, remodel, repair, et cetera in the sum of
$3.502.
PORTERVILLE LoocE No. 303
Consent granted to expend not to exceed $6,000 to remodel and
modernize front of Masonic Temple.
Los BANOS LoocE No. 312
Application approved to borrow $50,000 from Bank of America for
the following purposes:
1. Purchase property adjacent to present Temple site to construct
a necessary addition to the Temple and for a dditional parking area for
$20,000.
2. To construct said addition in the s um of $30,000.
WHITTIER LoocE No. 323
transfer $5,000, to be willed to the Lodge, to the
to
granted
Consent
Temple Association to be deposited in the new Temple fund.
Committee consent granted to s tart construction to enclose new
Temple on fully paid site. Approximate cost to enclose $188.000. Consent granted upon motion by Bond, seconded by Crase, subject to the
condition that no further expenditures be made without Committee
consent.
SAN PEDRO LoDGE No. 332
Consent granted to application to amend existing Articles of Incorporation, increasing the capitalization from $25,000 to $200,000,

177

UNIVERSITY LoocE No. 394
Committee consent granted to application to purchase outstanding
stock in the Temple Association for $25 or less per share; also, consent
to borrow $3,000 to provide funds for such purchases.
BURBANK LooGE No. '106
Consent granted to enter into contract to reconstruct Masonic
Temple in Burbank at a pproxima te cost of $196,000; also, consent to
transfer $100,500 from Lodge general funds to Burbank Masonic
Temple A ssociation: a lso, consent to borrow not to exceed $100.000
from Community Bank to complete construction.
ALPHA LooGE No. 431
purchase outstanding shares o f Richmond
to
granted
Consent
Masonic T emple Association not to exceed $10 per share: total purchase
not to exceed $2.000 without further consent of the Committee.
MONTEBELLO LooGE No. 451

Committee consent to purchase future Temple site in Montebello
for $50,000.

179

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MoRGA N H1LL LoDGE N o. 463
Consent granted to request to transfer $7.000 from Lodge general
funds to T emple Association in exchange for regular membership certificate; also, consent to transfer title of 4th Street property to the Temple
Association in exchange for regular membership certificate in estimated
value of said property.
RocKRIDGE LoDGE No. 468
Consent granted to install elevator in Rockridge Lodge and to borrow $15,000 for the purpose of such installation.

LYNWOOD LoDGE No . 600
Application approved to purchase future Temple site in Lynwood in
the sum of $52,000.
HEMET LoDGE N o. 615
Consent granted to transfer $10,000 from Lodge funds to the Temple
Association for the purpose of completing the new Masonic Temple in
Hemet.
ANGELES MESA L ODGE No . 625
Application approved to the expenditure of approximately $15,000
for the installation of an elevator in Angeles Mesa Temple.

178

COACHELLA LoDGE No. 476
Committee consent granted to application to ·start construction to
enclose new Masonic Temple; also, to borrow $20,000 from the Bank
of America to provide additional funds for such construction.
PATTERSON LODGE No . 488
Application approved to start construction to enclose new Masonic
Temple building in Patterson; also, to enter into deed of trust agreement
with Wells Fargo Bank not to exceed $25.000 and to transfer $5,000
from Lodge funds to the Temple Association for such construction.
CAPITAL CITY LoDGE No. 499

Consent granted to application to purchase property for future
Temple site for $24 ,000, subject to reecipt of complete financial statement of Lodge and Temple Association a ssets and conditions of purchase.
SEASIDE LODGE No. 504
Application presented to purchase property in Long Beach for future
Masonic Temple at cost of $65,000. Moved by Bond, seconded by Crase
that Committee consent be granted under the conditions and terms set
forth in the application. Motion carried.
IoNi c LoDGE No. 520
Consent granted to the transfer of existing note for a regular membership in the Temple Association.
SUNNYSIDE LoDGE No. 577

Consent granted to expend $25,000 in Lodge funds for the purchase
o f property adjacent to present T emple site for future Lodge and parking purposes.
CoMPASS LoDGE No. 590
Application approved to form Masonic T emple A ssociation and to
trans fer at least $250 from Lodge general funds to the newly formed
Temple Association.
GUARDIAN LODGE No. 596
Consent granted to transfer $5,000 from Lodge general funds to the
Temple Association for the purpose of installing an air conditioning unit.

INDIAN RocK LooGE N o. 638
Consent granted to application to purchase not more than 10 shares
of outstanding stock in the Thousand O aks Masonic Temple Association at the price of $10 per share.
HAWTHORNE LoDGE No . 647
Committee consent granted to the transfer of $7,500 from Lodge
funds to the Hawthorne Masonic Building Association for the purpose
of completing an addition to the existing Masonic Temple.
CRESCENTA VALLEY LODGE No. 652
Application approved to expend $7,491.40 to repair and modernize
the kitchen facilities in Crescenta Valley Lodge; also, consent to transfer $2,000 from Lodge funds to the Temple Association to assist in the
program.
REsEDA LODGE': N o. 666
Application presented for purchase of property adjacent to Temple
site for $9 ,000. Property to be used for Lodge and parking purposes.
On motion by Holbert, seconded by Crase, Committee consent granted.
0ILDALE LoDGE No. 688
Consent granted to transfer $695 in cash and $750 in bonds, included
in Lodge funds, to the T emple Association.
INDIAN WELLS VALLEY LoDGE No. 691
ACACIA MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Considerable discussion about rs ale of present undesirable Temple
and property, and the purchase of approximately 4 acres for new Temple
construction. Application to be submitted in near future for proposed
purchase of property. Committee consent granted to purchase new
Temple site (23/i acres) for $3.500; also, to transfer $5,000 from Lodge
Temple Association when needed. Consent granted on motion by Bond,
seconded by Crase.
LoRENzo LoDGE No . 709
Application presented for consent to transfer $500 from Lodge general funds to the Temple Association in exchange for a regular membership in said amount. Moved by Adams, seconded by Crase, that

180

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Committee consent be granted subject to receipt of statement setting
forth the reason for such transfer. Motion carried.
Los ALTOS LODGE No. 712

Consent granted to the application to the incorporation of Los Altos
Masonic Temple Association; also, consent to transfer $500 from Lodge
funds to the Temple Association.
726
Consent granted to application to the formation of the Yucaipa
Masonic Temple Association and to the transfer of $2,200 from Lodge
funds to said Temple Association.
YucAIPA LODGE No.

HIGHLAND LoDGE No. 718

Consent granted to application to purchase property for future
Masonic Temple in Highland at cost of $12.000; also. consent to transfer $3.500 from Lodge funds to the Temple Association to assist in said
purchase.
Et RANCHO LoDGE No. 759
Application presented for Committee consent to transfer $1,000 from
Lodge funds to Temple Association to apply on principal of outstanding
note. On motion of Bond, seconded by Becker, consent granted subject
to receipt of:
I. Formal application .
2. Minutes of Lodge authorizing transfer.
3. Current financial statement of Lodge and Temple Association.
SAN DIEGUITO LoDGE No. 775
Application approved to the transfer of $5.000 from Lodge funds to
the Temple Association for the purpose of completing the new Masonic
Temple in San Dieguito.
PINNACLE LoDGE No. 777
Consent granted to application to form the Soledad Masonic Temple
Association and to the transfer of $100 from Lodge funds to said Temple
Association.
LELAND STANFORD LoDGE No. 784
Consent granted to application to the formation of the Leland Stanford Masonic Temple Association, subject to the transfer of at least
$100 from Lodge funds to the Tempie Association.
YuccA VALLEY LoDGE No. 802

Consent granted to application to the formation of the Yucca Valley
Masonic Temple Association, and to the transfer of $200 from Lodge
funds to the Temple Association.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

181

S1M1 VALLEY LoDGE No. 806
Consent granted to the incorporation of Simi Valley Masonic Temple
Association; also, consent to the transfer of $250 from Lodge funds to
the Temple Association.
CONEJO VALLEY LoDGE No. 807

Application approved as follows:
1. To the formation of the Conejo Valley Temple Association.
2. To borrow $20,000 from the Bank of A. Levy Company to purchase improved property for Masonic Loage purposes.
The Committee on Lodge Financing expresses its appreciation for
the assistance, full support and encouragement given by Grand Master
Guy B. Mize and his officers. We are particularly grateful to the Grand
Secretary and thank him and his excellent staff for their assistance and
cooperation afforded the Committee. With such assistance and encouragement from all concerned, the privilege of serving on the Committee
of Lodge Financing has been most pleasurable and rewarding.
Respectfully submitted,
MARK A . GREEN
STURM
GEORGE
JOHN T. BOND
IVAN T . CRASE
GLEN C. HotBERlf
BECKER
ARTHUR
RICHARD L RIEMER
BENJAMIN L. SUSMAN
HALE MEADER

w.
s.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
What our young people learn to believe in, and admire today, will
determine the kind of world in which they and we will live tomorrow.
It is the responsibility of this generation to guide the educatonal processes which will make tomorrow's world. If we as Masons wish tomorrow to have a climate in which Freemasonry will thrive, we must
exert constant vigilance in regard to the academic and ethical realm in
which our young people spend half their waking hours for about twelve
of their most formative years.
We are sure this, as well as the great shortage of teachers, was in
the mind of the late Charles Albert Adams when he conceived and
brought into being Public Schools Week, under the auspices of this
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. The perpetuation of Public Schools
Week for forty-three years, and its almost universal spread into other

183

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

states, cannot be attributed to a great need on the part of the American
people to celebrate another week, or the publicising of this Grand Lodge
or Freemasonry in general. It can only be because such an observance
is of assistance in the creation, generation or increase of interest in our
Public Schools by our own members, and by Mr. and Mrs. John Q.
Public which is, of course, our ultimate aim.
Any activity which promotes this interest. whether it be held during
P .S.W. or at some other time, complies with the spirit of our undertaking
and is to be commended. Outstanding in this category are Public School
dedicatory and corners tone ceremonies which local Lodges have arranged for Grand Lodge to perform. Details of these are omitted here
as they will certainly be reported in ample form by the Grand Master.
From the report system, which was used this past year, much interesting information has been obtained, not the least of which indicates that
at least 500 Lodges had some sort of participation during P.S.W. (There
mus t be many more, but at the date of this writing this is the report
return.)
A great majority availed themselves of the posters which were produced and sold by "The Coordinating Council for Public Schools
Week." This Council has no direct connection with the Grand Lodge
and works with both Masons and non-Masons alike, but its leadership
is all Masonic and they have furnished this Committee with a financial
statement of their activities over the past two years. This statement
reflects that profits made in the first year were totally expended in additional services during the second year. No monies whatsoever have been
spent for personal services, and the responsible members of the Council
have assured your committee that these policies will continue in the
future. It is our understanding that this service will again be offered
to the Lodges next spring, and that there will be offered a p ackage deal
which will include both posters and window stickers.
We received a large number of comments (actually compla ints)
concerning the 1962 dates. The dates originally announced w ere for
April 23 to 27. Immedia tely following the 1961 observance, school people began to express objections to the dates as announced , beca use there
would be no time whatsoever following Easter V acation in which to
make preparations. In consequence of this, the change was made for
their benefit, but it worked a severe hardship on many Lodges.
Some of the projects as reported should be of interest particularly
to the Senior W a rdens present. These observances range from virtually
no cost to those which require per capita expense which is sizable.
The time to sta rt planning is immediately upon your return from
Grand Lodge, or before, so we trust that the Senior Wardens who do
not already have plans under way hear something which will strike
a spark.

The following is only a sampling of some of the activities reported.
This list could easily be five times as long:
Arrange bus tour of school facilities for Lodge members and public.
Bus tour of community for new teachers.
Speakers before Service Club meetings.
Radio and TV announcements and programs.
Post Office and postal meter cancellations.
Honor Educators.
Entertain School Board members.
De Malay members as speakers.
Participate in career counciling.
Posters-get junior organizations to distribute.
Group organizations, particularly in metropolitan areas, appear to be
the most successful method of getting the job done. The San Francisco
Masters and Wardens Association activity. under the able chairmanship of Raymond H. Levy, is an outstanding example among many.
Your Committee has been assured by the Grand Lecturer that in the
future it will have even greater cooperation from the lnspectoral Corps.
This could lead to additional cooperative efforts which would be of
benefit in many instances. It is the recommendation of this Committee
that its membership be increased to fifteen at this Communication. The
added members, strategically located, would allow closer cooperation
with the Inspectors, and thus give better overall coverage in assisting
the Lodges and Districts.
Within the 'past sixty days your Committee has been charged with
the responsibility of implementing a program which is described in the
following letter on the letterhead of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted M asons of the Philippines :

182

July 31. 1962
"The Grand Master
Gra nd Lodge of California , F. & A. M.
California M asonic Memorial Temple
1111 C alifornia S treet
S an Fra ncisco 8, California
Most Worshipful Sir and Brother:
You may have heard of the tremendous need in the Philippine public
schools for textbooks of all kinds. The Japanese sys tematically destroyed
all textbooks in the English language during the last war. Despite the
efforts of many Americans, this situation has never been substantially
alleviated. Part of the reason. of course, is the population explosion in
the Philippines.
The Philippine Government reserves over twenty per cent of its

184

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

budget for public school education. Despite this fact, we have found
that on the average three school children are using one textbook. The
English language is generally used throughout the Philippines, and
the public school system in the Philippines was founded and nurtured
by Americans and is patterned after the American School System. Consequently, any American textbook on any subject will be useful. Furthermore, there is such a vacuum that even if a book is outdated. it will be
useful.
The United States Navy is prepared to transport free-of-charge
any and all books that you may be able to send us. In the event that you
can collect books through your Subordinate Lodges. kindly arrange with
the nearest U.S. Navy Installation to ship them to the West Coast Director, Project Handclasp, Eleventh N aval District, San Diego, California, in accordance with the instructions contained in CINCPACFL T
5726.l ( 42) 24 April 1962.
When we receive the books, we shall distribute them on a proportional basis through our 117 Subordinate Lodges in the Philippine Archipelago (we also have Lodges in Guam, Okinawa and Japan) . This will
fit in with our program of public service and education which we have
initiated in connection with our Special Golden Jubilee Communicatio n
to be held on December 19, 1962, which we hope you or some members
of the Grand Lodge will attend.
We hope that you will ask all of your Subordinate Lodges to do all
possible to collect used textbooks and to arrange for shipment to us.
We understand that in many areas in the United States, textbooks which
are outdated or are in less than good condition are destroyed. These
books would be highly acceptable and very much appreciated by the
teachers and by the school children in the Philippines.
We are doing our best to fight the forces of communism and it seems
to us that if this program is successfully carried out, we will be making
a two-pronged attack on communistic activities. First, by improving the
educational level of the children, we will be combatting ignorance. Second, the fact that the gift has been made from America, will enhance
immeasurably the goodwill which exists between Americans and
Filipinos.
You can be assured that we will see to it that your Grand Lodge and
your Subordinate Lodges get full credit for all donations made.
I hope to attend the Grand Masters' Conference in Washington next
year, and hope to meet you there if I do not see you here next December.

This is a most challenging program and your Committee, realizing
that its correct name is Public Schools Committee and not Public Schools
Week Committee, is anxious that we help in " Project Handclasp."
There are two approaches: ( 1) Contact your local school authorities
in an endeavor to obtain textbooks which they might have available;
and ( 2) contact your own members and their friends for those two or
three to a dozen old textbooks which are stored away.
We solicit your enthusiastic cooperation in this matter, to the end
that we assist our daughter jurisdiction toward success in a truly worthy
endeavor, and at the same time give our Grand Officers reason to be
proud of this jurisdiction on the occasion of their visit to the Golden
Jubilee session.
Before concluding this report, your Committee wishes briefly to
record its sincere appreciation to :
Most W orshipful Guy B. Mize, Grand Master, for giving us the
privilege of serving our schools and this Grand Lodge. For his
tremendous capacity, zeal, understanding and cooperation in connection with Public Schools.
Our predecessors in office who have laid the firm foundation on
which we are building.
The Masters and Committee Chairmen who carried the ball
throug bout the Jurisdiction.
The California Teachers Association whose cooperation over
the years has been of untold assistance.
To school teachers and administrators without whose assistance
we could° not succeed.
Looking to the future. let us be ever mindful that as our Public
Schools have always been a grass-roots institution and so should we keep
our program in the local Lodges, with guidance and help, not dictation,
coming from the Grand Lodge Committee.
Assure yourselves that your own local schools are not degenerating
into being merely mills of learning as in the Soviet Union. Keep your
Public Schools- Symbols of Freedom.
Respectfully submitted,

WHQ/re.r

Fraternally yours,
(Signed)
WILLIAM H. QUASHA
Grand Master"

CLAUDE E. COLE
IRVING A. BERLINER
GEORGE K. PALM ER
PERRY BARRETT
JESS SHEEGOG
GEORGE HIA TI
WINSTON E. McPHERSON
HORACE H. WAR NOCK
MELVIN C. MORAN

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
At 12 :00 noon Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

185

186

PROCE EDING S OF THE

AFfE RNO ON SESS ION- Tues day, Octo ber 9, 1962

Maste r presid At 1 :30 p.m. Gran d Lodg e was called on, the Gran d
ain.
Chapl
d
Gran
the
by
red
delive
was
ation
ing. The invoc

GRA ND ORA TION
"WH IRLI NG WHE ELS"
DR. ROBE RT B. WATT S, Gran d Orato r

rs,
Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Maste r and Past Gran d Maste
,
Lodge
d
Gran
l
hipfu
Wors
Most
this
Officers and Memb ers of
ren:
Breth
and
rs,
Visito
ed
Distin guish
happi ness when
It is alway s a sourc e of the greate st satisf action and
spark les like
joy
this
and
s;
one i's privil eged to meet with one's friend
s are, as
friend
those
when
nd
diamo
ut
the brillia nt flashes of a well-c
.
Craft
nt
Ancie
the
of
today , Breth ren
office as Grand
But as every broth er who has prece ded me in this
ss that this
confe
I
you,
Orato r has in one mann er or anoth er said to
inade quacy
nal
perso
and
.ity
humiJ
joy is tempe red by a deep fee1ing of
on shoul d
reacti
my
ht,
thoug
d
secon
On
task.
nt
as I under take my prese
s. For
nding
surrou
surpr ise no one who pause s to consi der our prese nt
asonr y
Freem
of
heart
here. in this very place, we are within the living
is
Here
ii.
Hawa
and
rnia
Califo
of
as it beats in the proud sister State s
tions
aspira
and
ion
devot
love,
the
which
the verita ble focal point upon
are center ed. Here
of our hundr eds of thous ands of Maste r Maso ns
joined in council,
are
is the meeting place where the leade rs of the Craft
ng studies, in
Jife-lo
in
ed,
bringi ng to bear a comb ined wisdo m achiev
Craft may
the
of
ership
memb
the
by
searc hing out the mean s :"here
t Temp le
ificen
magn
the
is
Here
nry.
Maso
m
furthe r perfec t themselves
super bly
ybeaut
itself, symbol of our g.reat streng th and love of
of your
try
tapes
living
the
adorn ed not only mater ially but also by
entarepres
s
strand
n
golde
the
by
prese nce-- so richly embro idered
ren
Breth
d
revere
other
and
rs
Maste
Hve of our beloved Pa·s t Grand
giants
ble
verita
the
years
the
over
which
in
And finally, here is the forum
rses in their Grand
of weste rn eloqu ence have woven magnificent discou
Orati ons.
their footst eps
Small wond er, then, that one who essay s to follow in
to the Craft
g
tainin
apper
and addre sses this assem bly upon matte rs
"a lastin g
called
has
h
swort
feels so keenl y the need of what Word
ly, my
quent
Conse
"
faith.
by
blest
inspir ation, sanctified by reaso n and
your
ch
besee
stly
earne
most
I
when
Breth ren, you will under stand
nal
perso
take
I
,
figure
lesser
a
As
e.
broth erly charit y and forbe aranc
has
which
an
Morg
De
stus
Augu
by
n
writte
conso lation from a jingle
alway s amuse d me:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

187

"Grea t fleas have little fleas
Upon their backs to bite 'em,
And little fleas have lesser
Fleas, and so ad infinitum/"
of gratit ude
Not only fine tradit ion but the dictat es of a heart full
Most Worto
ss
expre
and perso nal affection lead me befor e all else to
I speak
rs.
office
his
of
ation
shipfu l Gran d Maste r Mize the admir
l Sir,
hipfu
Wors
Most
you,
to
ss
expre
for every broth er officer when I
that
in
you
n
know
g
havin
of
tunity
oppor
the
our appre ciatio n for
the
for
er
togeth
e
specia l sense of intim acy which comes from -servic
r
Maste
Grand
our
found
Frate rnity. We have, my Breth ren, ever
overto
quick
and
ship,
friend
and
wise, unstin ting in his self-giving
m our duties. And
look our frequ ent errors as we have sough t to perfor
th of a lion in
we have seen in him the verita ble coura ge and streng t ceremonies
ancien
's
Craft
the
his defen se of the propr iety of condu cting
d restric ted to
at the sites of public buildi ngs. Nor is this high regar
ssions of simiexpre
time,
after
time
ssed,
witne
his Officers. All of us have
memb ers of
less
lar regar d and perso nal affection on the part of count
like a flamarced
have
n
the Craft . The many hues of their appre ciatio
c.
Pacifi
ling
spark
the
of
ing rainbo w over the broad expan se
direct ed to the
But today I would go beyon d these obser vation s
to each one of
Gran d Maste r and offer my oratio n as a tribut e to yourightf ul heirs
the
you- the very flower and nobili ty of the Craft and
erhoo d as it
broth
and desce ndant s of the whole body of our ancie nt
langu age of minhas existe d thro1;1gh the ages. Hence , in the colorful
arms and man
of
l,
strels y and poetry , I would sing- not as did Virgi
that Maso nic
ng
-but rather of men and Maso ns. Nor would I, in defini
arian, for
gramm
the
or
host, apply the rigid definition of the histor ian
ul pride.
rightf
our
thereb y we might undul y circumscribe the objec t of
minds
and
hearts
Rathe r, I would invite you to widen the lenses of your
ages
the
across
leap
to catch the wide sweep of the comp asses as they
rs.
cesso
prede
tive
opera
to join with you even the most remote of our
In you, they live on.
specta cular
In the Book of the Proph et Ezekiel, there appea rs a
to mincall
his
of
Nme
the
at
God
of
accou nt of the proph et's vision
and
poetic
is
nt
accou
this
sure,
be
ister to the exiled Hebre ws. To
of
age
langu
the
in
only
is
it
y
realit·
imaginative, but this is becau se in
be
can
ience
exper
al
spiritu
deep
of
shimm ering image ry that this sort
expre ssed.
with reverGod, the Supre me Being befor e whom all Maso ns bow
whirlw ind, upon a
ence, is descri bed in this vision as appea ring in a
contro lled by "the
flashing thron e suppo rted by wheel s within wheel s
spirit of the living creatu re."

189

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Today I would invoke the symbolism of these "Whirling Wheels,"
the title which I have chosen for this oration, to assist me in developing to the Craft the tribute which is upon my heart.
The outer wheel, circumscribing the infinite universe, we naturally
ascribe as Masons to God, its author and creator. The inner wheel
we may view as man, or more particularly for our present purposes,
as Masons, strug·gling through the ages to achieve individual dignity
and true freedom under God.
Both outer and inner wheels are whirling because both the universe
and all which it contains are dynamic, mov.ing and developing-not
static. Each wheel presents basic concepts which are essential to my
theme.
Fif'st, we turn to the outer wheel of God's infinite power which
includes all else. The great light of our faith illumines this wheel with
its mighty opening words-"In the beginning, God ... . " Here operates
the eternal and immovable God upon whom, in this changing world. we
may always count as a fixed source of love and strength. Here, in short,
is the Almighty, Omnipotent and Infinite Creator of the whole universe
symbolically surrounding and protecting us.
Some time ago, the distinguished editor of the California Freemason
printed a verse which described God'-s creation of our particular earthly
planet in these colorful words:

rounded by the protective comfort of the outer wheel of God's infinite
presence.
Finally, and yet of essential importance to us, we know this Infinite God to be a personal God - the God of Abraham, Isaac and
of Jacob. More than this, He is the God of all mankind-a dynamic,
present and active God today just as He has been and will continue to
be as the outer wheel whirls on.
Within the orbit of this outer wheel we find the whirling inner
wheel which symbolizes you, my Brethren, as representatives of all
Freemasons of every age. And this inner wheel has four flashing spokes
which taken together represent the four age-old goals of the Craft. The
first is the achievement of individual dignity. The second is the winning
of individual freedom. The third is the accomplishment of national
freedom. And the fourth is the establishment of individual freedom of
worship.
Because our forefathers in the Craft have built well toward the
establishment of these freedoms, the rights which they bestow are ours
to enjoy, to defend and in our turn to expand. Their heroic accomplishments are no dry bones of history. Rather, they shower down
upon us, and envelop us in star-dust as the guardians of their treasures.

188

"A fire-mist and a planet,
A crystal and a cell,
A jelly-fish and a saurian,
And caves where cave-men dwell;
Then a sense of law and beauty
And a face turned from the clodSome call it evolution,
And others call it God."
Today, of course, we know that this planet earth is but a speck in
the total universe and that numberless worlds are indeed around us, all
framed by the same Divine Artist. We are thoroughly space-minded,
and our scientists constantly expand their knowledge of space and simultaneously strain upward and outward in their practical calculations as to
how to propel man toward the very stars. Yet the whirling outer wheel
of our imagery assures us that our God is a great God: that wherever
man's imagination or his techniques may ultimately permit him to soar
-and far beyond that extreme point-there will be found the same
Divine Artist. Be assured, my Brethren, that man is no chance collection of particles, created and then turned loose to flicker briefly
amid surrounding chaos-but stands in his Maker's image ever sur-

For no matter how far back our gaze or imagination carries us.
whether it be to the skilled members of a college of artificers in urban
Rome, or to the lonely watchers in Babylon and the deserts of Egypt
who carefully pl<?tted the courses of the stars and planets long before
the building of the pyramids, we shall find the same origins and the
same basic drives motivating and leading upward those whom we Masons are proud to call "Brother." For all mankind is kin, and what
dedicated men of all ages seek is, ultimately, not material nor of this
world. Rather, "they seek to escape the duality of their natures, to
achieve an essential unity; to transcend the material, to rise out of the
earthly -into the fullness of the spiritual." In short, they seek to harmonize the whirling inner wheel which is symbolic of their lives and
action, with the rhythm of the celestial outer wheel.
Through generation after generation, above the clank and vibrations
of material progress, Masons have continued to labor and to listen for
an omnipotent voice. And the motivation which drove them to do so
survived the rise and fall of mighty empires, and the whip-lash and
retribution of tyrants in every age. That motivation we call basically
man's struggle for freedom, his journey upward upon what Lord Tennyson described as "the great world's altar-stairs, that slope thro'
darkness up to God." For man has ever sought to rise from anonymous slavery to individual dignity and freedom, and once launched

191

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

upon those twin quests has gone on to struggle for national freedom and
the priceless privilege of worshipping his Creator in his own way. Hence
the four spokes of the inner wheel.

Out of serfdom, out of ignorance, out of the denial of the right even
to stray from their chani:e places of birth-yes, out of next to nothingness-there had emerged through the power of Freemasonry the priceless possession of human dignity. Men of the Craft were indeed recognized as individuals, and to prove it for aU time, they possessed their
individual marks with which they stamped their handiwork. Moreuver,
they had created a great class of men who were in truth made free to
travel wherever their skills were in demand. Here were indeed Freemasons, and men cloaked with that mantle of human dignity without
which man could never go forward to achieve those full freedoms which
made up the spokes of the inner wheel.
1£ you would experience, even across long centuries, something of
a personal, physical bond with these ancient Brethren, you may find
that experience as I did in the company of Most Worshipful Brother
Shell. Not long ago, we stood together in a very old cathedral in Austria. And there, amidst the music and liturgy of a religfous ceremony
not ours, we reached out our fingers and touched. on one of the soaring
arches of the cathedral. the master's mark of our Masonic Brother whose
hands, together with his fellows', had erected that mighty building centuries ago. With such a physical bond, my Brethren, one almost literally
sees before him, stepping out through the mists of the past of long
ago, the stalwart form of a living Brother, a fellow Mason and a mighty
champion of freedom. And one is proud indeed to be his follower in
that great quest.
There is another brilliant jewel of the early Craft's accomplishment
upon which I presume ta speak. If authority for such comment be needed,
it may be found in the teaching of the Ancient Charges and Regulations,
which demand of us that "you agree to hold in veneration the original
rulers and patrons of the Order of Masonry." To what further jewel of
accomplishment do I. then, refer?
To nothing less than the example of the great care and concern of our
early Brethren in transmitting their ideals and aspirations to the young
men who were growing up around them. They spent time with these
youths, they worked with them, and they gradually opened their minds
and vision to the worthiness and keen desirability of achieving fellowship and membership among the enlightened ones. Youth responded,
as it always has, to the adventure-dangerous as it might be-of fighting for high ideals. And when those high ideals were understood to be
persona] dignity and the freedom of all men, interest became enthusiasm and enthusiasm became dedication. Thus at the portals of Masonry,
sons knocked at the door and sought admission as had their fathers.
Friends followed friends. And thus. joining the Masters of the Craft,
there was a perfectly natural progression, a built-in admiration and
devotion, which provided a steady replenishment and growth for the
Order.

190

In Tolstoy's War and Peace, there appears a moving scene between
Pierre, Count Bezukhov, and an elderly traveller who is recognized by
the ring he wears as being a Freemason. The Mason, in reply to a
suggestion that his brotherhood suffered from a delusion, replies :
"I should never dare to say that I know the truth. No one can attain
truth by himself. Only by laying stone on stone with the cooperation
of all, by the millions of generations from our forefather Adam to our
own times, is that temple reared which is to be a worthy dwelling
place of the great God."
Our ancient Brethren, though largely bereft of material pleasures,
personal possessions and the blessings of freedom, instinctively knew
this truth, and realized that the first key to the stone by stone erection
of freedom consisted of knowledge. And so they patiently began to
observe, to study and to reflect-all in ages when formal teaching was
the special prerogative reserved to kings and priests. The book of
nature lay open before their inquiring minds, and from it they read and
began to understand something of the secrets of the skies and something
of the everyday workings of simple natural laws, as well as being
drawn to the realization that all these things pointed unerringly to the
existence of one great Creator. As they slowly opened the vistas of
their minds, so too they increased the skill of their hands, and began to
bring to bear their new knowledge in the production of ever more beautiful objects of their Craft.
In this expanding process of acquiring personal dignity and freedom,
they early adopted two principles. The first was to establish a means
of preserving their growing body of knowledge at a time when the art
of writing was largely closed to them. This they did, with an effectiveness to which we can testify, by the use of symbols, selected from
the Craft's most expressive tools and implements. The second was to
protect for themselves, their a pprentices and fellows, the precious s~
crets of the skills of the Craft which permitted their application to ever
more complex and stupendous edifices. This they achieved by the use
of secrecy- made functional by the concept of the tiled lodge wherein
learning was imparted and protected from profane ears.
I recall these events to you, not as a presentation of pages of M<Y
sonic history-for there are present far more learned historians than
I. Rather, I cite them as the means whereby our early Operative Craft
made one of the most dramatic strides forward ever made by man in
his long quest for freedom. For observe, and s well with pride at what
had been achieved by our Brethren.

192

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRANO LODGE OP CALIPORNIJ\

193

But note, I beg you, the critical fact that this invigorating Bow of
young Entered Apprentices, this transformation of boys into Craftsmen
who fought to understand and improve the world as well as themselves,
was solidly supported by active and continued personal contact with
members of the Craft.

Thus the never-ending struggle of men, and of Masons, has come
down to us. Slowly, over the generations, the rhythm of the inner
wheel becomes more in harmony with the outer. Slowly. but magnificently, the spokes of indi¥idual dignity, personal freedom, national free,,, dom and freedom of conscience have expanded and held firm.

Mine is no function or intention of critical comment as to the degree
to which Masons of our day may fail in seeing to it that they work
thus steadily with young men and bring to them that spark of enthusiasm which in turn will bring them to our doors as eager recruits. Mine
rather is but the function of the remembrancer; for once the rays of
recollection and realization flash before your minds, certain it is that
your own keen intellects as Masonic leaders will unerringly point the
way whereby the Craft of today may improve itself in the performance
of this great Masonic privilege and duty.

All these events-all these accomplishments over the centuries-are
both our common birthright and a part of the swirling clouds of glory
which surround and adorn each one of you. Of these things are you
made. And for these things, to which each one of you have added so
much by your own devoted labors, I sing your praise.

But let us return to our inner wheel and examine briefly the two
remaining spokes which represent the right of all men to national freedom and religious liberty. We all know how the torch of individual
freedom, once lighted by our ancient Brethren, kindled the determination of men through century after century which followed to achieve
still more complete freedom for all mankind. This unceasing quest for
freedom is at the very core and essence of Freemasonry, and, together
with its humble dependence upon God, readily explains both the attrac..
tion and the power of our Order.
As rapidly changing scenes of the past Bick past in memory, we see
our Brethren standing behind the barons who forced Magna Charta
from King John of England at Runnymede in 1215. We see them as
they furnished the French Revolution with much of it·s strength and
with its great rallying cry of "Liberty, Equality and Fraternity!" We
see them in Indian dress at the Boston Tea Party, warning a foreign
monarch that there were limits of oppression beyond which his subjects could not be pressed.
We look at the scenes of heroism at Valley Forge and elsewhere
throughout the Colonies, and we see the mystic seal of the Square and
Compass deeply impressed upon our nation's fight for freedom. We
watch the Constitutional Convention of 1787 which followed victory
and see there the careful labors of Freemasons. And we read with
pounding pulses the ringing words of freedom's charter which they
wrote in the immortal preamble of our Constitution.
As political liberties expanded there grew apace the right of every
man to believe and to worship God as he sees fit-and here again we
thrill as we see the handiwork of our Brethren in sweeping away the
strangle-hold which long had held men's consciences in thrall.

But truth demands that I stop not here with words of praise-for
it must also be said that the continued possession of our freedoms demands of us both vigilance and exertion. H eed the words of Goethe's
"Faust":
"Whate'er you have, bequeathed you by your father,
Earn it in order to possess it . ... "
Strong as we are in our nation's military might, we are but slowly
awakening to the realization that deadly danger surrounds us. For
all too long we Americans have indulgently gauged others by our own
peaceful intents and purposes. We have been far too prone to assume
that our libert>ies and freedoms are automatically to be ours foreverwithout exertion by us. We have tended to think of our Constitution
in terms of a rare document kept safely on d isplay at Washingtoninstead of seeing, in its the living bulwark which our Brethren raised
against arrest. torture, loss of our property and death itself, withou t
due process of law.
Now that we have begun to realize more and more the chilling possibility of nuclear attack against us , all too many of our citizens are
thinking of meeting any such attack on a "survival only" basis. Yet I
assert that any such timorous objective may well destroy free civilization, taking us along with it. "Survival only" is not a policy. It is the
delusion of a nation marked for suicide. It is a faulty stone which I
pray that you, as Master Craftsmen, will firmly reject. The great
Edwin Burke described the danger very neatly when he commented.
"All that •is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do
nothing." Let us heed those words and never lay down our working
tools.
To you, the very flower of Freemasonry. must go the leadership
in this resurgence of spirit-this recovery of an understanding long
buried in the rubbish of the Temple. In the words of the Prophet Isaiah,
the call is made to you to " •. . J.ift up a standard for the people!" That
you will succeed is not open to doubt. Your stature in the Craft, your

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

proven abilities as leaders, and the clarity of your vision . al.I combine
to assure that the mighty structure of freedom so tru~y bmlt ~y our
predecessors will rise to new heights by your accomplishments m our
times. And, thus, with our labors ended, we shall w~tch. the ..whirling
wheels move on. as " •.. time and the world are ever m flight.
My Brethren, I salute you.
"I do not know beneath what sky
Nor on what seas shall be thy fate;
I only know it shall be high.
I only know it shall be great."
The Grand Oration was received with a standing ovation.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to have the oration
printed and a copy thereof mailed to each Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

195

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
During the past few years the principal duty of your Committee
has been the publication of California Freemason. The year 1962 saw
the completion of Volume 9, and Volume 10 will be issued quarterly
during 1963.
The format adopted in 1959 has been continued, the magazine having 48 pages, 6 inches by 9 inches, and is produced by the offset process.
The first eight pages and the last eight pages are in two colors. There
is a liberal use of pictures.
The original function of the Committee has not been overlooked
and the Proceedings of sister Grand Lodges have been studied to obtain
information of interest to California Freemasons. These reviews have
been published in the magazine.
The California Freemason is an official publication but its articles
do not necessarily present the opinion of Grand Lodge. It has attempted
to maintain sound Masonic standards and to give our readers Masonic
information and inspiration , but it must always be understood that its
statements are not necessarily the official position of the Grand Lodge
of California. Articles are printed which ha ve some Masonic connection and which are educational, informative, stimulating and even provocative. News of Grand Lodge activities is presented as well as unusual
and outstanding items about ind ividual Lodges, but a quarterly is not a
news magazine and space is not available to mention every local happening.
Bids were sought for the publication of the quarterly for the ensuing
year. By the authority of the Grand Master and the Deputy Grand
Master, the contract for 1963 was awarded to Stecher-Traung Lithograph Corporation of San Francisco.
There has been a small increase in the number of forward-looking
Lodges which send the magazine to their entire membership. This practice has been a real stimulan t to membership interest. The arrangement
for blanket subscriptions is that if a Lodge adopts a resolution so to
do, each member will be mailed the quarterly and, in January of each
year, Grand Lodge will bill the Lodge at the rate of not to exceed 60
cents for the number of members shown on the last A nnual Return.
Changes in membership during the year do not affect this charge.
The Lodges now operating under this plan are:
1o. 12, 17, 25, 27, 33. 44, 55, 57, 60, 78, 80, 95. 99, 101, 110, 123, 124,
129, 131. 164. 169, 173. 175, 180. 186, 195, 196, 198, 203 , 205, 207, 208.
211, 218, 220, 228,23 1,233, 236. 240, 250, 253.254,255, 259, 262, 266,
267, 271, 273,275, 277, 281, 285, 293, 294, 295, 300, 303, 306,309, 312,
314, 318. 320, 321, 328, 329,333, 334, 338 , 339,354,359, 361, 362, 372,
383, 384, 385, 391, 393, 395,402, 408, 409,412,421, 425, 427,428, 436,

196

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

458,459,465,469,472,473,4 93, 504, 513, 519, 524, 531 . 532, 546, 552,
555,573, 580. 582,585, 586, 587, 589, 595, 596, 598.611. 617, 622, 626,
635, 636, 637,644,645, 650, 656, 658, 659,660, 666, 677, 680, 689, 693,
702, 707, 710, 717, 719. 720, 722, 731. 732, 735, 739, 741, 742, 746, 750,
751, 758, 765, 766, 767, 769, 770. 772, 774, 776. 777, 779, 780, 782, 783.
786,791, 794.800,801,803,804,806,8 07
These 177 Lodges have a membership of 45,471.
As of June 30, 1962. there were 35,313 regular subscribers at the
rate of $1 per year (reduced 25 cents per year after the first for additional years paid in advance at the time of the initial year).
This is our financial report for the year ending June 30, 1962.

$41 ,057.25 and sound accounting w ould indicate a more adequate figure

~ould be $54,745.00, which is the total refund which should be made

to subscribers if publication were to be terminated.
We respectfully request a deficiency appropriation of $1,125.33 for
the fiscal year 1961-62, and an appropriation of $2,000.00 for the fiscal
year 1962-63.
Respectfully submitted,
NEWCOMB CoNDEE
BURCH, JR.
GEORGE
JOH N WULLSCHLEGER
MAURICE B. Ross
RALPH T. MERRIAM
0BLATH
ROBERT
MAURICE CHERRY

w.

w.

EXPENDITURES
COST OP OBTAINING SUBSCRIPTIONS:

Printing ..............................................$ 4,578.03
Postage ·······-·········-·-------------------···-···· 5,270.35
Clerical ·-·-··············--·-··············-········· 12,567.45
Address Plates ····-······-----------····· -······ 4 ,513.33

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
$26.929.16

COST OF PRODUCING MAGAZINES:

635.64
Editorial Expense ·-···-····-·-·---·····-·······
144.69
Pictures and art work ····-·······-----·-----Printing -·····--------···-·············----·-········· 32,526.48

33,306.81

CosT op D1sTRIBUTION:

Mailing expense ··········--·-----------·-······
Postage ····························-··--------·······

197

2.283.55
1,192.91
3,476.46
$63,712.43

SOURCES OF PAYMENT:

Collected from Lodge subscription .... $27,311.40
Collected from individual
subscribers--··············-·······-········· 35,244.45
31.25
Cash sales ..........................................
$62.587.10
$ l, 125.33
Deficit for year....................
We request that Grand Lodge absorb this deficit.
There is at present a reserve of $35,168.20 to cover paid subscriptions
for which there is an obligation to deliver future issues of the magazine.
This reserve is inadequate. The minimum should be not less than

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Sam Walter Foss wrote in his "The Coming American":
"Bring me men to match my mountains
Bring me men to match my plains."
Our nation has repeatedly called its citizens to summits of crises :
Valley Forge, Bull Run, the Depression, Guadalcanal, Cape Canaveral.
Repeatedly we have sent forth men of strength, wisdom and courage
to meet the moun'tains. Leaders of those men have been untold numbers
of Masons.
This year as we celebrate the one hundred seventy-fifth anniversary
of the signing of the Constitution of the United States of America, we
are in dire need of intelligent statesmanship and capable public servants
who do not compromise with honor and right. We must not stand by with
apathetic eyes as we witness the daily inroads that are being made into
the rights and privileges which were written into and provided by that
great document. We as Masons must provide the men to meet those
mountains. For as Ralph Waldo Emerson so wisely wrote:
"For what avail the plough or sail
Or land, or life itself-if freedom fail?"
These annual observances by our Lodges must not be just an answer
to the Grand Master's proclamation. They must be vital and enthusiastic.
They must bring the message of freedom not only to Masons but to
your friends, your neighbors and the entire community. They must accomplish what the great Athenian statesman Pericles wrote:
"I would have you day by day fix your eyes upon the greatness
of your country until you become filled with the love of her; and,
when you are impressed by the spectacle of her glory, reflect that

198

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

it has been acquired by men who knew their duty and had the
courage to do it."
Because of the requirement that this report had to be in the hands
of the Grand Master by September 1st, it must of necessity be void of
any accounting of this year's observances. We can only say that reports
of program planning have been most encouraging and point to an out.standing year.
Again this year the Committee visited many of the district officers'
meetings to offer their assistance in the planning of the various observances. The response by the Inspectors to the Grand Master's suggestion
that committeemen be invited to visit one of their district officers' meetings for this purpose, was very fine. To these devoted Masons-our
sincere appreciation. We believe these visitations are productive of
better planning and the resulting observances thus more successful.
Our preamble and flag program this year- a single item of the
Preamble to the Constitution printed on parchment with the American
flag printed in color-was received most enthusiastically. Over one
hundred thousand of these items were distributed by Lodges throughout
the State to schools, churches, civic groups, etc.
Your Chairman would like to add a personal note to this report. I
have been a member of this Committee for seven years. To me, the original appointment of Grand Master Ned Stewart, and continued reappointments by succeeding Grand Masters have been a real pleasure
and a distinct honor. With real pride I have seen this Committee grow
from just "another list of Past Masters on the Roster of Grand Lodge"
to an enthusiastic and dedicated group of Masons who are sacrificing
time and effort to do a good job for Masonry. This has afforded me
much pleasure and personal satisfaction. Because it has always been
my firm belief that no one should be continued too long in a specific job
and because I believe that new "blood" and new leadership are required
periodically to produce continued progress towards the goal which we
all must strive, I have requested the incoming Grand Master to appoint
a new Chairman of this Committee. He has accepted this request.
My Brethren, let us truly hold the Constitution in true veneration
and protect it with our hearts and minds and actions. Remember that
"deterioration of any government begins with the decay of the principles
on which it was founded."
Respectfully submitted,

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

HAROLD C. MUDGETT
SERGEI N. IVANOFF
JESSE J. BELL
REYNOLD
MACDONALD
EVERETTS. ToDD
EARL PATTERSON, JR.
ROBERT D. LINTNER

c.

EDWARD W. WREDE, JR.
JAMES
NISBET
HAMBLETON F. LEAS
CHARLES R. HAPAI
ORAN W. PALMER
DANIEL M. CAMERON
WILLIAM G. BUXTON

Referred to Committee on Finance.

c.

199

T o the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the 1961 Communication of Grand Lodge the dispensation of
Scepter Lodge U.D. was continued for an additional year. During the
current Masonic Year five more Lodges have been instituted. In addition, one petition for a dispensation has been certified by the Grand
Secretary to the Grand Master and referred to the Committee on Charters for investigation. The investigation is in suspense, pending appointment of the Committee on Charters by the incoming Grand Master.
Four of the Lodges petitioned for charters. These are Scepter, Los
A lamitos, Victoria Palms, and Woodland Hills. They submitted their
records and sent delegates who appeared before the Committee on Char.ters. In some cases there were errors or omissions in their records. Some
of these were minor and others were more substantial. Some of them, at
least. would not have occurred if closer attention had been given to the
California Masonic Code and to the manual prepared by the Committee
on Charters w hich had been issued by Grand Lodge to them.
In any event. the errors and omissions were of a character which
could be rectified. and such has been accomplished or assurance given
that it would be done. Therefore, in a basic sense, their work and proceedings prove satisfactory; they have produced certificates that their
respective Masters and Wardens proposed are each thoroughly skilled
in the work and )ectures, and they have shown that they are clear of all
indebtedness.
The Committee on Charters therefore unanimously recommends that
charters be granted and numbers assigned to the four petitioning Lodges
as follows:
Scepter Lodge No. 808 at West Sacramento, in the county of Yolo.
Los Alamitos Lodge No. 809 at Artesia, in the county of Los Angeles.
Victoria Palms Lodge No. 810 at Riverside, in the county of Riverside.
Woodland Hills Lodge No. 811 at Canoga Park, in the county of
Los Angeles.
Triad Lodge U .D. at Montebello, in the county of Los Angeles, was
instituted on August 28. 1962. The Lodge, having worked under dispensation such a short time. did not petition for a cha rter but requested
that its dispensation be continued for the ensuing Masonic Year. Its
delegates met informally with the Committee. and we unanimously concur in the request of the Lodge and do recommend that the dispensation
be continued.
Comment is required with respect to the status of Old West Lodge

200

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

U. D. The dispensation was. originally granted September 13, 1962. The
Lodge was instituted October 2, 1962, and held its first Stated Meeting
the same evening. On the advice of this Committee, it has not surrendered its dispensation nor forwarded to the Grand Secretary its by-laws,
books of records, etc., however brief they may be. The reason for such
advice will be explained.
California Masonic Code, Section 309. provides in part that a "dispensation shall terminate upon the first day of the month in which the
next succeeding Annual Communicatio n shall be holden and shall then
be returned to the Grand Secretary, together with the by-laws, books
of records, and returns of the new Lodge to that date .... ".
Thus, if reliance were placed on the dispensation as originally
granted we would be confronted with a dispensation which by virtue of
its date terminated under Masonic Law on October 1, 1962.
The Grand Master rectified that situation by re-dating the dispensation October 2, 1962, the date upon which he instituted the new Lodge.
Inasmuch as the Lodge did not come into existence until it was instituted, it obviously could not comply this year with that portion of
Section 309 requiring return of the dispensation, etc., to the Grand
Secretary the day before it was instituted.
Thus. Old West Lodge U.D. is a Lodge of which this Committee
must take cognizance, but is one upon which no action need be taken
at this Communicatio n. The dispensation with the new date is the one
under which the Lodge exists. and does not terminate until the first day
of October, 1963. This will result in the Lodge having the opportunity
of either petitioning for a charter at the 1963 Communicatio n or of requesting at that time that it be continued under dispensation for the
following year.
This portion of our report is for information, and requires no action.
Reference is made to that portion of the Report of the Grand Secretary relating to consolidation of Lodges, which has been referred to
this Committee.
It appears that the consolidation of San Francisco Lodge No. 360
and Victory Lodge No. 474, the Lodge to be known as San FranciscoVictory Lodge No. 360, located at San Francisco, was accomplished in
accordance with the law.
It further appears that the consolidation of Surprise Valley Lodge
No. 235 and North East Lodge No. 266, the Lodge to be known as Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235, located at Cedarville, was accomplished
in accordance with the law.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201

Your Committee, therefore, unanimously recommends that the Grand
Secretary be authorized to properly endorse the charters involved.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
ROBERT A. SMITH
KENNETH L. HEMPHILL
HAROLD S IMON
ROBERT 0. WEST

PHILIP B. STONE
AYNE E. BURK
CHARLES WARREN
MARTIN ORTLIEB
THOMAS G. ALLAN

w

EARLL. VANVORST

By separate actions the portion of the report granting charters and
continuing a dispensation was adopted, as was that portion of the report
approving the endorsement of the charters of San Francisco Lodge No.
360 and Victory Lodge No. 474, and Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235
and North East Lodge No. 266.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTE E ON
MASONIC EDUCATIO N
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In the sincere belief that the promotion of Masonic Education can
provide one of the best answers to the universal Masonic problems of
attendance and membership, your Committee has this year explored.
experimented and attempted many forms of Masonic education.
In conformity with the custom of the past seven years the Committee,
in conjunction with the Research Lodges, has planned a Masonic Education Seminar for Tuesday, October 9. at 7 :00 p.m., in the California
Masonic Memorial Temple. Grand Master Guy B. Mize in authorizing
the seminar spoke of it as a "feature of Grand Lodge Week." Your Committee is indebted to our Grand Master for his guidance, support and
encouragemen t throughout the year. We urge that the evening Masonic
Education Seminar be made a regular feature of Grand Lodge Week.
This year, classroom panel. and question and answer sessions will
be held in the ground floor meeting rooms from 7: 00 to 7: 45 p.m. and
repeated in the same rooms from 7:55 to 8:40 p.m. The program for
these sessions is as follows:

1. Lodge Meeting and Trestleboard Planning, N.C.R .L.
Daniel M. Cameron
Alvin L. Becker

202

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

2. X-Y-Z of Masonry and Religion, S.C.R.L.
A. Rom Moberg, Sr.
William E. S. Jarrett
3. Masonic Law, Rules and Regulations, C.C.R.L.
Leo J. Green
Vernon T. Fike
Wayne E. Burk
M. D. Mortland
4. The Tragedy of the Crabb Expedition, 1857, N.C.R.L.
0. J. Wohlgemuth
At 8: 50 p.m. the General Session will be opened in the main auditorium by the Most Worshipful Guy B. Mize, Grand Master of Masons
in California. The speakers for the session will be Edward H. Rowins,
Past Master Corona Lodge No. 324, and President of Ventura College.
on the subject: Freemasonry and the Public Schools: and Alfred F.
Breslauer. Past Grand Master, on: The Importance of the Constituent
Lodge in the Masonic System. All Master Masons are eligible to attend
the Masonic Education seminar and are indeed cordially invited to do so.
In response to requests from many Masters your Committee has circulated this year a short paper on Freemasonry and Russia suitable
for use in the Lodge Trestleboard or Bulletin or as a short talk for the
Lodge Education Chairman. This was so well received, more such publications are planned for the future. In addition, a fine pamphlet was
printed and circulated to all Masters and Education Committee Chairmen, titled: What Can a Mason Tell a Non-Mason about Freemasonry,
and written by V.W. Elbert W. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer. This
publication provides an authoritative answer to that often raised question
and furnishes additional material for use in Masonic education. Early
in the Masonic Year, there was again circulated to all Masters, copies
of the Brochure Comprising Three Plans for Masonic Education which
had been prepared by previous committees. Additional copies of these
publications may be obtained from the Committee or from the Grand
Secretary.
As in previous years the Research Lodges continue to do sturdy,
yoeman work in their respective geographical areas in the cause of
Masonic Education. However, there are still too many Brethren who
are not aware that speakers, panels, papers for study or presentation,
and general education program planning assistance can be obtained from
the nearest Research Lodge.
In order to promote and coordinate the work of the Research Lodges,
to enable them to better understand each others' problems and to assist
each other in their efforts, your Committee for the first time in its history
organized a Joint Meeting of the California Research Lodges. This was

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

203

held in Fresno, California, on Saturday, June 16, 1962. The program fo r
that noteworthy occasion is made a part of this report. Leo J. Green,
W.M., and Earl Wallace, Se<:retary of Central California Research
Lodge and their committeemen, were of invaluable assistance in making
the necessary arrangements for the meeting.
So helpful did the sharing and exchange of ideas among the officers
of the Research Lodges prove to be, that the Committee unanimously
recommends this type of meeting be repeated next year.
In areas throughout the Jurisdiction not readily accessible to the
Research Lodges, the Committee arranged a series of Education Seminars. These were publicized by the Masonic Districts involved and could
not have been presented without the enthusiastic support of the respective Inspectors and the Assistant Grand Lecturers. These seminars
were held in Crescent City, Salinas, Georgetown , and other California
cities and in Honolulu, Hawaii . In the main, speakers for the programs
are members of the Committee and of the Research Lodges. It is recommended these seminars be continued and perhaps expanded if funds,
manpower and planning will permit.
Several questions submitted by Brethren in California to the Grand
Secretary on subjects concerned with Masonic Education were referred
to the Committee for reply. It was with considerable pleasure that members of the Committee were able to provide authoritative answers to the
questions.
Your Committee has been assigned a task this year which it feels
must be fully and carefully accomplished. The Master of Educational
Lodge No. 1002. A. F. & A. M., Minneapolis, Minn., has written to
the Grand Secretaries of the Grand Lodges of the United States of
America and Canada. Educationa l Lodge is the Research Lodge of
Minnesota. The Master wishes to gather information on "Masonic
Charities" or "Masonic Projects fo r the Public Good" in order to publish a list of them. He states: "While we all participate in the us ual civic
projects such as Red Cross, Community Chest, Blood Bank, etc., what
we hope to secure is information on projects sponsored and carried out
by Masonic Bodies. This may include the Blue Lodge, Eastern Star,
York Rite, Scottish Rite, Grotto, Shrine or any other body affiliated
with Masonry." You·r Committee feels that this information would be
most valuable for publication in the Grand Lodge of California's Jurisdiction . also. In order to assemble as complete a report as possible, we
earnestly request that any Mason having knowledge of such projects
for the "Public Good" communicate the information to committeeman
H enning Lueders, 670 Woodlake Drive, North Sacramento 15, Cali·
fornia, or to any other member of the Committee or to the Grand Secretary.
The Committee wis hes to express its appreciation for the unfailing

205

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

help, cheerful aid and invaluable assistance provided by the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary and their office personnel. In
particular, we acknowledge our indebtedness to the newly retired Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D . Oliphant.
The Committee unanimously recommends the continuation of the
Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education and requests that the
sum of $2.500.00 be appropriated for its work during the coming year.
Respectfully submitted.

5:15 to 5:45 P .M .-Round Table and Summation by the Masters and
Wardens of the Four Research Lodges and the Grand
Lodge Masonic Education Committee.
"Let's Get Acquainted"
6:30 P.M.-Dinner (at $2.00 per plate).
8:00 P.M.-Wekome to the Evening Program by Edward L. Kellas,
First W.M. of Central California Research Lodge and
Chairman for Fresno Arrangements.
8:10 P .M.-Carr on Kilwinning by Wayne E . Burk, C .C.R.L.
8:45 P.M.-Caucasian Clandestine Masonry by Ralph A. Herbold,
S.C.R.L.
9: 15 P.M.-The Laying of Cornerstones by Eugene S. Hopp. N .C.R.L.
There will be a question and answer period at the conclusion of each
speaker's presentation. Questions are invited from the floor.

204

EuGENE S. H oPP
LEONEL C. PANOSH
FRANK REINSCH
HENNING J . LUEDER S
ALVIE 0. HOLTON
LAUREN CE E. DAYTON
JOHN H . BROOK E
DAVID
L EE
MILTON E. AMMANN

c.

Referred to Committee on Finance.
PROGRAM
FI RST J OINT MEETING OP THE CALIFORNIA R ESEA RCH LODGES

I :30 P .M .-Opening Remarks by Past Grand Master Chester H. War-

low, representing the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California .
1 :40 P.M. -Masonic Public Relations by William H . Adams, Chairman, Masonic Information Committee. Grand Lodge of
California.
2:10 P.M.-Word Meanings and Pronunciations by Raymond B.
Pease, S.C.R.L.
2 :40 P.M.- How a Mason Can Educa te Himself by Milton E . Ammann, Member of Grand Lodge Masonic Education Committee.
3: 10 P .M.-Coffee Break.
3:30 P.M.-The Function of Research Lodges by Elbert W. Davis,
Past Grand Lecturer .
4 :00 P .M .-Grand Lodge Library and the Research Lodges by Alex
Horne, Chairman, Grand Lodge Board of Library Commissioners.
4:15 P .M .-Other Libraries and the Research Lodg es by Frank
Reinsch, Member, Grand Lodge Masonic Education Committee.
4 :30 P.M.- How to Develop a History Program for Research Lodges
by 0. J. Wohlgemuth, Chairman, Grand Lodge Masonic
History Committee.
5 :00 P .M.- Musical Interlude.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M . of California:
Your Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges has had
under consideration several applications for recognition from foreign
Grand Lodges, including two recently formed, as well as conditions in
Cuba and in France, and reports as follows:
INDIA

A new Grand Lodge of India was constituted and the Grand Master
and other officers installed on November 24, 1961. Preparations for the
creation of this Grand Lodge had been going on for at least two years
by a joint committee representing the Grand Lodges of England, Ireland
and Scotland, and members of the Lodges in India . The new Grand
Lodge was consecrated by the Grand Master Mason of Scotland and
constituted by the Deputy Grand Master of Ireland . and the officers
were installed by the Deputy Grand Master of England.
The Grand Lodge of India is entirely regular and we recommend
that the Grand Lodge of California ex tend formal recognition. The
acting Grand Secretary is Brother M. P. Dube, Freemasons' H all, Janpath, Post Box 681 , New Delhi, India.
LUXEMBOURG

In our report at the last Communication we noted that the Grand
Lodge of Luxembourg had applied for recognition and recommended
that the question be held over for another year.
The Grand Lodge of Luxembourg has been in existence since 1849
but has not heretofore been recognized by us. It has recently, however.
severed relations with the Grand Orient of France and the Grand Orient

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of Belgium, neither o f which bodies is recognized by the Grand Lodge
of California. All information we are able to secure indicates that the
Grand Lodge of Luxembourg is now entirely regular and merits our
recognition.
We, therefore, recommend that the Grand Lodge of California
extend fraternal recognition to the Grand Lodge of Luxembourg, the
Grand Secretary being Brother Leon Hamus, P . 0. Box 260, Luxembourg (Grand Duche).
SOUTHERN AFRICA

The Grand Lodge of Southern Africa was formed on February 18,
1961, and has applied to this Grand Lodge for recognition.
This new Grand Lodge is made up exclusively of Lodges formerly
under the obedience of the Grand Lodge of The Netherlands. It has
ninety-four Lodges and about 5,000 members. The Grand Master installed April 22, 1961, was M . W . Graham Botha , formerly Deputy
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of The Netherlands in South Africa.
The new Grand Lodge of Southern Africa is regular and has been
recognized by the Grand Lodges of England, Ireland a nd Scotland.
We recommend that the Grand Lodge of California extend formal
recognition to the Grand Lodge of Southern Africa, its headquarters
being in the National Mutual Building, Church Square, Capetown.
CUBA

Prior to September 22. 1962. at least. the situation of Freemasonry
in Cuba under the Castro regime had not been clear.
In March, 1959, Juan Jose Tarajano was elected and installed Grand
Master of Masons in Cuba, and in March, 1960, w as re-elected and
installed to serve a second year. By November, 1960, he and a number of
other Grand Lodge officers deemed it necessary to get out of Cuba because of the trend toward Communism, and its threat through infiltration to engulf Freemasonry.
On November 15. 1960, Brother Tarajano delegated his powers to
the Deputy Grand Master, and on the following day arrived in Miami
where he was joined by some of the other Grand Lodge officers. The
Deputy Grand Master also decided to leave, but he was not able to get
to Florida. With some difficulty he managed later to go to Venezuela
where we understand he now is. Brother T arajano, who had meantime
received the Great Seal of the Grand Lodge of Cuba, issued a statement
on December 31, 1960, in which he reassumed his duties as Grand
Master, and on the same date declared a temporary recess in all Masonic
activities in Cuba. He and his group appear to have observed carefully
the Masonic rules of propriety as to the Grand Lodge of Florida and
were made welcome there. Grand Master Larson of Florida by his

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

207

proclamation of March 6. 1961. and the Grand Lodge of Florida, by
action taken April. 1961 , recognized Brother Tarajano as in truth and
in fact the Grand Master of Cuba with the privilege of residence in
Florida, and of continuing from there the existence and operation of
the Grand Lodge of Cuba.
However, it appears that the Castro government did not at that
time suppress Freemasonry in Cuba as Freemasonry had been suppressed in some other countries. When Grand Master Tarajano, and
later on the Deputy Grand Master, left Cuba. the Senior Grand Warden
took over as the ranking officer left in Cuba and carried on until March.
1961. Then at the regular ·s emi-annual communication of the Grand
Lodge, Jorge Cuervo Calvo was elected and installed Grand Master.
From reliable information furnished us, it appears that although the
Grand Lodge building in Havana was taken over by the government,
together with all other office buildings in the city, the four Masonic
floors in the Grand Lodge building had not been disturbed until recently. It appears that most of the Lodges in the Grand Lodge of Cuba
have been working under the direction of Grand Master Calvo, one
exception being Caribbean Naval Lodge at Guantanamo Naval Base
which has given its allegiance to Brother Tarajano in Miami as Grand
Master.
The Inter-American Conference, consisting of Latin American Grand
Lodges. went on record, after investigation by a commission sent to
Havana, as affirming the validity of the Grand Lodge of Cuba then
working in Cuba. While the Masons in Florida. and Brother Tarajano
and those associated with him, have been of great assistance in rendering Masonic service and relief to Cuban refugees who are Masons. competent legal opinion was that under the circumstances there could have
been no such thing as a Grand Lodge of Cuba in exile. and that the
legally established Grand Lodge of Cuba in Havana still had jurisdiction
over the 30,000 or more Masons in that country. Some Cuban Masons
now in the United States have not been able, however, to secure dues
receipts from their Lodges in Cuba nor replies to communications, and
without current dues receipts, of course, they could not visit California
Lodges.
On September 25, 1962, the newspapers carried a press release from
Mexico City to the effect that Cuban troops had occupied the Masonic
Grand Temple in Havana, arrested its officers (including Grand Master
Calvo) and outlawed the organization. This report was confirmed by
the Grand Executive Secretary of the Inter~American Masonic Con~
federation, General Eduardo Rincon Gallardo. We have no information
other than press release; however, those members of Lodges under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Cuba who may wish to affiliate with
our Lodges are not prevented by reason of this suppression from so

doing if they can prove reasonably that they have been in good standing in Lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Cuba (see
Sec. 557-3rd C.M.C.). Because less than two weeks have elapsed since
we learned from press notices of the suppression of Cuban Freemasonry
and because of the lack of definite information as to the precise situation now facing Freemasonry in Cuba. the Committee does not feel that
it can make any recommendation at this Communication.
FRANCE

As your Committee has reported at several communications during
the past few years. the situation of Freemasonry in France has been a
cause of concern.
The Grand Lodge of California at present recognizes two Grand
Lodges in France, the Grand Lodge Nationale and the Grand Lodge of
France. A third jurisdiction, known as the Grand Orient of France. is
the largest in membership but is irregular and is not recognized by this
Grand Lodge or by any other with which we are in fraternal relations.
The Grand Lodge Nationale is entirely regular and is universally
recognized.
The Grand Lodge of France has been officially regular. at least in
the past few years. but according to the best information we can secure
it has not been entirely succesful in enforcing regularity in many of its
constituent Lodges. Fraternization and intercommunication between
Lodges and members adhering to the Grand Lodge of France and those
adhering to the irregular Grand Orient seem to continue in spite of
official action of the Grand Lodge itself. We understand also that the
Holy W ·r itings are not always used, and that many members of constituent Lodges have not bee.n obligated thereon. Only nine other grand
jurisdictions in the United States now recognize the Grand Lodge of
France.
Your Committee feels that it is not wise in the interest of Freemasonry for this Judsdiction to continue to recognize two competing
Grand Jurisdictions within the Republic of France; and to continue to
recognize the Grand Lodge of France would be to condone a certain
amount of irregularity which that Grand Lodge is itself apparently
unable or unwilling to control. Since the other Grand Lodge. the Grand
Lodge Nationale. is entirely regular, it is our thought that until the
situation in France has been corrected, we should confine our recognition to this one Grand Lodge about which there is no doubt.
For the above reasons your Committee recommends withdrawal of
recognition from the Grand Lodge of France. with the expressed hope
that this step on our part will help to bring about a closer union of those
Lodges in France which wish to be entirely regular and to adhere strictly
to the Ancient Landmarks.
Respectfully submitted.

Adopted.

PHIL N. MYERS
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY, }R.
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

209

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON MASONIC CEMETERIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the request of the Grand Master. Brothers Gillett and Chapman
prepared this report in order that Grand Lodge may be informed of the
current status of matters which have occupied our attention during the
past year.
It is our sad duty to repor t that the Chairman of the Committee,
Worshipful Samuel E. Leddel. was called to the Lodge on High September 28, 1962. Our beloved Brother wa·s long active in Masonic, religious and civic affairs in his home area of Long Beach and will be sorely
missed.
Briefly. our duties under Sec. 204, C.M.C.. fall into three categories:
( 1 ) cemeteries owned or operated by Grand Lodge; ( 2) cemeteries or
sections thereof owned or supervised by constituent Lodges and ( 3)
problems of any nature arising by reason of the connection or usage of
the name of our Fraternity in relation to any burial ground in California.
The cemeteries owned by Grand Lodge are as follows: (a} Columbia Cemetery, situated in what is now Columbia State Park. about four
miles from Sonora. It adjoins the renovated Columbia School and is near
the Columbia M asonic Temple, which was restored to its original condition by Grand Lodge twelve years ago. The school is a show place
for vtsitors and. by Grand Lodge action last year. work has been commenced under direction of this Committee to put the cemetery in a presentable condition: Brush and debris have been cleaned up and hauled
away, a large oak tree trimmed. and an engineer's survey made. The
latter was necessary to establish the correct boundary lines so that a
picket fence. corresponding to that in front of the cemetery, and the
old schoolhouse grounds, could be installed. Contract has been let for
this fence and it is scheduled for completion by the end of October,
1962. Incidentally, the survey disclosed that a piece of land 76 x 156
in front of the cemetery is included in the Grand Lodge title and should
be placed on record. This could probably be used for a parking lot.
It will be recalled that at the 1961 Communication Grand Lodge
authorized an appropriation of $3 .000.00 for work on the Columbia property. The amount already contracted for is included in the present requested appropriation of $5,385.00 detailed in the following recom~
mendation:
Survey and work performed -·-····-·-···-·······-··$ 535.00
Picket fence······-···-··-·····················-··············-· 1.750.00
Additional work program
Straighten stones and realignment
of foundation pads ······················-··-······ I. I 00.00

210

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Align curbs. sealer and white rock ......... . 1,200.00
Spray with weed killer ............................. . 300.00
Maintenance to October, 1963 ................ 500.00
$5,385.00"
"This cancels out the $3,000.00 appropriation for 1962.
(b) The Fiddletown Cemetery is located near Jackson. Very little
could be done with the $500.00 appropriated by Grand Lodge in 1962,
as it has been discovered that the property is twice as large as was
originally estimated. The sensible thing to do is to first have a survey
made, and the property cleared of weeds and undergrowth. This can
be done for an estimated amount of $500.00 but it will later be necessary
to spend an additional $1.000.00 to fence and place the cemetery in a
presentable condition; however, for the present a renewal of the $500.00
appropriation (which has not been spent) is asked for the forthcoming
year.
(c) At Jamestown, about three miles from Sonora. there is an old
cemetery originally owned by Saint James Lodge No. 54 , defunct since
I 875. The property is so overgrown with weeds and brush that it is
impossible to know how many graves are there. There have been no
burials there since about 1876. Title to the property is in the name of
the old Saint James Lodge, most of the members of which transferred
to Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 at the time of dissolution. It is recommended
that Grand Lodge take title to the property and then ·s pend about $300.00
to clean it up. After that it can be ascertained what can be done to repair the damaged headstones, etc.
Activity of our Committee in the other two categories, referred to
in paragraph three of this report, is usually confined to specific cases
brought to our attention. For example, in Grass V alley a cemetery
owned by Madison Lodge No. 23 is reported to us to be in a neglected
state and it is recommended that the Lodge in question be instructed to
set up a program of rehabilitation. Another instance, of which there are
many, is a situation in which a Lodge holds title to a Masonic section
and sells lots to its members. Obviously it is the duty of such Lodge
to see that the section is maintained in a proper manner to avoid reflection on the Fraternity.
The third category includes such problems as an old cemetery in
Hueneme, which is owned by a corporation established some sixty years
ago. The individual stockholders were Masons in Hueneme Lodge No.
311 , which was consolidated with Oxnard Lodge No. 341 in 1902. The
cemetery is neglected and little used now and the whereabouts of most
of the original stockholders is unknown. The name of the corporation.
however, is "Hueneme Masonic Cemetery", and it is desirable that the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

211

word "Masonic" be eliminated from the corporate title. This poses a
legal problem and it is our recommendation that the matter be referred
to the appropriate Grand Lodge Committee to work with the Inspector
for that District and determine what can be done. A Past Master of
Oxnard Lodge is president of the corporation and several of the directors are Masons. A similar situation exists in Modesto, except that here
our Committee has not yet had an opportunity to complete its investigation. Another facet under this third category is the establishment of
Masonic sections in new cemeteries. In such cases the cemetery corporation sells the lots and our interest is to ascertain whether a perpetual
care trust fund has been established and that the Fraternity shall not
be used as a means of commercializing the sale of grave sites. Your
Committee sees no objection otherwise. Two recent instances are: New
cemeteries at Chico and Fullerton, both projects being high grade and
well managed operations.
Summarizing the financial requirements, this Committee requests an
appropriation of $6,460.00 to be expended in the manner previously
detailed :
Columbia Cemetery and grounds ................ $5,385.00"
Fiddletown Cemetery .................................. 500.00
Jamestown Cemetery .................................... 300.00
Normal annual request for
general Committee use .............................. 275.00
Total requested ................ $6,460.00
"$2.285 .00-already spent or committed.
It would seem desirable that additional members should be appointed
to this Committee, particularly one or more from the Sonora area, who
would be in a position to direct the progress of the work to be done in
that area.
In closing, we wish to pay tribute to Brother Larry Lavignino and
Brother Buck Nelson of Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 who, while not members
of this Committee, have given untiringly of their time and efforts at
Columbia. Without their cooperation the progress made there so far
would have been impossible.
Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD

c. SCHROEDER

FREDERICK H. CHAPMAN
THOMAS EDWARDS
BASIL R. GILLETT
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF BOARD OF
LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
The Masonic Year 1961-62 will probably go down in California
Masonic history-as far as the Grand Lodge Library is concerned-as
the year in which our Lending Library at long last went into orbit.
After ·several years of preparation---<:omprising the gathering of a representative selection of books, properly cataloging and indexing them,
developing a practical and effective method of operation, securing the
necessary assistance from among the brethren to man an adequate
Library staff, and developing the proper working tools-it is gratifying
to be able to report that we are now, as the saying goes. "in business."
As a result, an increasing number of Brethren from all over the Jurisdiction have been making use of our Lending Library, and the many
expressions of appreciation that we have received from those who have
begun to take advantage of this new facility is very satisfying to your
Board. With the continued support of the Grand Lodge. and the continued interest on the part of the Brethren, our possibilities for service
to the Craft show every promise of increase as the years go by, and as
the resources at our disposal become greater and greater.
A new issue of our BOOK LIST has been made avilable and widely
circulated, cataloging the books that can be had on loan by mail. arranged and classified as to subject matter for convenient selection. By
means of generous publicity in the California Freemason, and frequent
notices in Lodge Bulletins around the Jurisdiction. numerous requests for
these BOOK LISTS have come in. To the California Freemason, and to
the Masters of Lodges who have given us this much-needed and most
effective publicity, we express our most heartfelt gratitude.
Thanks are also due to those who have given so generously of their
time and energy to man the variou·s stations and perform the many
arduous tasks connected with the operation of a working Library: to
Brother William H. MacMaster, who has been in general charge of the
Library and its records, and who has faithfully kept the Library open
to visitors one day a week; to Brother Paul R. Kruse, a professionally
trained and practicing Librarian, who has helped to put the cataloging.
indexing. and shelving of our books on a scientific basis; to Brother
William H. Scott, who has attended to the mailing and keeping the records of the Lending Library; and to Brother Andrew Burn who has
recently made it possible to keep the Library open one additional day a
week. Brother Philip Salzman has also aided ma terially in the mechanical work connected with our book shelves. As a result of the
availability of these dedicated Brethren, the Library and Museum is
now open regularly from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. on Mondays and
Wednesdays. As the demand increases, and as the supply of self-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

213

sacrificing Brethren increases with it, we may eventually reach our goal
-that of keeping the Library open to visitors every day in the working
week. Needless to say, volunteers are always welcome, and we should
like to hear from others living around the Bay Area who may be in a
position to devote some portion of their spare time in helping us keep
the Library open for an additional day or two during the week.
Our Lending Library has so far necessarily confined itself to the
lending of books that are of more or less general interest, and that a re
easy or inexpensive to replace if lost or accidentally damaged; and the
lending has been confined to members of California Lodges residing in
the State. In this connection, an important decision was taken by this
Board at its meeting on May 12 of this year, at which time it was decided that the Lending Library would be made available to all members
of California Lodges, whatever their place of residence, in or out of
the State of California, since it was their dues indirectly that made the
operation of the Grand Lodge Library possible. It was also decided that
the Lending Library would be made available to Sojourners in California, to stimulate their interest in this activity of the California Grand
Lodge. and through that means. in California Masonry in general. Such
loans of books to Sojourners. however, would only be made upon personal application, and not by mail. and under satisfactory safeguards,
at the discretion of the Librarian in charge. Needless to say, this action
by the Board should be of assistance to the Grand Lodge Committee
on Sojourners, and should recommend itself to the Officers of California
Lodges who undouJ:>tedly would all like to see a greater participation on
the part of Sojourners in the Masonic life of the Jurisdiction.
With this progress that has been noted in the operation of a Lending
Library, the development of a Masonic Reference Library has not been
neglected, for the permanent accumulation and preservation of worthwhile works for the generations of students and readers that are to
come after us; and thus. by purchase and by gift, we can now report
the possession of over 1.600 volumes in our Library to date, not counting the numerous volumes of Proceedings of this Grand Lodge and of
other Jurisdictions in this country. Over the years, this modest beginning
can grow to respectable proportions.
Some of the items on our shelves, we might mention, are of unusual
interest. To take but one example at random. there is the two volume
Diary of the Englishman, John Evelyn, born in 1620 and a contemporary
and friend of the famous Sir Christopher Wren, a writer on architectural subjects and other matters of interest to the Masonic student, reflecting in his Diary the social and intellectual atmosphere of an era
when Specula tive Masonry was just beginning to be born .
Our stock of books was increased this year alone by the accession
of 35 books by purchase, and 428 books by gift from various Brethren

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

or their families, including a gift from the Iowa Masonic Library of
some of their duplicate copies. In addition, we have been able to borrow
from this world-famous Library in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, certain works
for which we have had requests but which we did not as yet have on
our own shelves. For this generous assistance from our sister Library,
we are supremely grateful.
Among the generous gifts of books that have come to us from all
sides. special mention must be made of the extremely valuable collection
recently donated by Brother William T . Corbusier of Long Beach,
representing some seventy items. This includes not only many worlcs
of great interest to the reader and research student on Masonic and
correla ted subjects. but also several "collector's items" of great intrinsic
value. One of these is Budge's world-famous Egyptia n Book of the
Dead. containing a reproduction in color and facsimile of the ancient
Egyptian hieroglyphics, described by Dr. Mackey as "the most striking
exponent of the doctrines and language of the Egyptian Mysteries of
O siris," a reference to which has been found on a tomb of the eleventh
dynasty, ascribed to a date of approximately 2420 B.C. This rare and
precious work is temporarily displayed in a cabinet of the Museum on
the Second Floor of the Temple. along with several other valuable works
donated by Brother Corbusier, and it is hoped that the Brethren attending this Communication will take advantage of this opportunity to view
them. In the budget prepared for your consideration is one item comprising a special cabinet which, if funds become available for that purpose, will house this unusual Corbusier Collection in a more fitting
manner.
Similarly interesting items have been added to the Grand Lodge
Museum from various other sources: Master Masons' Certificates and
Diplomas; Centennial Souvenirs; colorful and fascinating Aprons belonging to the Craft and some of its Concordant Orders, coming to us
from various parts of the world. Among them is a M aster Mason's Apron
inscribed with the date Dec. 10, 1800, once belonging to Sir Thomas
Brook Wavell of England. passed on to us by a rela tive of his, Brother
Edmund W . Pratt, now a member of Catalina Island Lodge No. 524,
Avalon, California.
Two items of interest came to us last year but have not as yet been
reported to Grand Lodge and are therefore mentioned at this time. One
of them comprises a Mason Hamlin Organ donated by Brother Fred
Luke of Concord Lodge No. 117, Sacramento, and his wife, in memory
of her brother, Jonas Sharp Miller, also a member of Concord Lodge.
This organ was originally purchased by Mrs. Luke's grandparents in
the I 870's and was played at a reception on the occasion of their golden
wedding anniversary in 1904. The other item of interest is a metal box
recently unearthed from the Cornerstone of the old Masonic Temple in

Stockton. containing a host of relics of varied historic value, both general
and Masonic. For example: a map of Stockton dated 1879, and several
other maps of the period; copies of fifteen different California newspapers dated 1883; Rosters of Officers and Members of various Masonic
Bodies of Stockton, both of the Craft and of Concordant Orders; and
even a box of some eighteen old coins going back to 1771, and a denture
set in gold plate of obvious interest to the dental profession. Thus is
California Pioneer and Masonic history preserved for future generations.

215

Interest in these matters is perhaps indicated by the number of visitors
who have come to view the Library and Museum, some 921 having
signed the Register this year up to the date of writing this Report.
To foster and promote this interest still further, plans have been
laid for an extension of our facilities for storing and exhibiting Museum
relics and these plans are reflected in our request for budget appropriation. At the suggestion of the Right Worshipful Ira W. Coburn, Deputy
Grand Master, a coordinated plan has been submitted to your Board of
Trustees representing the thinking of the Library Commissioners. projected over the foreseeable future, with the view to making future purchases of Museum cabinets on a unified and coordinated basis in harmony and keeping with the general architectural and decorative features of the Temple, and of a character calculated to reflect dignity on
the institution. With this in mind, a space has been proposed to be set
aside-which we can designate as the " Museum Area"-located immediately outside the Library proper on the Second Floor. and which
has room for the comfortable locating of enough cabinets to take care
of our expected requirements of the next ten years. A study is also
being continued of a suitable and dramatic Relief Map of Califorina,
to be installed on some suitable wall space, and showing on a large
scale the locations in which there are Masonic Lodges in this Jurisdiction,
in accordance with an idea orignated by your Grand Secretary. and a
recommendaton covering which will probably be forthcoming at the
Grand Lodge Communication next year. With the numerous public
functions that continually take place in your Grand Lodge Templeconventions. concerts. exhibits, and so forth-and the traffic on these
occasions that goes on in the space that we have designated as the
"Museum Area," this image that California Masonry will be presenting
to the general public, in a rich and dignified and interesting manner,
cannot fail to reflect immeasurable benefit on the institution.

It has also been suggested that all prospective donors to the Library
and Museum first submit details of their proposed gifts to the Board
of Library Commissioners, who will determine their Masonic interest
and suitability; and that all such gifts, if accepted, shall become the
property of the Grand Lodge of Calfornia.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

216

217

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

In addition to outright gifts, presentations to the Library and Mu.
seum may als? be o~ a loan basis, either permanent or temporary.
For our immediate needs, during this coming year, we pr
the purchase of one additional cabinet to house the collectors' ite:o:
generou~ly donated to us by Brother Corbusier, previously mentioned,
and which have to be properly housed to appreciate and demonst t
their true _value. Our complete budget for the ecoming year, basedrao:
the experienc~ and actual expenditures of previous years, and which
we now submit to your consideration, is as follows:
OPERATING EXPENSE

Printing and Circularizing .................... $ 500.00
75.00
Librarian's Expenses ····--------·--------------75.00
Library Supplies ··--·---·--·------------·--------···
Postage ......................................... ........ .
75.00
Purchase of books ................................ 250.00
Miscellaneous ·····-··-·--···-----------------·--·--·- 150.00
Total ·········----·---·····

$1.125.00

CAPITAL EXPENSE

Museum Cabinet ..................................$1,850.00
Book Shelves .......................................... I 50.00
Rebuilt Typewriter ................................ I 00.00
Total ......................

2,100.00

Grand Total ..........

$3.225.00

This represents an increase of only about $1,000.00 over the expenditu~e fo~ the year 1961-62. In view of our expanding activity, and

the obvious mterest of the Brethren around the Jurisdiction in this valua_ble activity of Grand Lodge, we submit this budget to your consideration, and earnestly urge this Grand Lodge to give us the needed tools
with which to continue to serve you.
Respectfully submitted.
ALEX HoRNE

DAVID R. LANE
ROBERT H. BURROWS
WILLIAM H . SCOTT
THOMAS W . S. Wu

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON MASONIC INFORMATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . 0 A. M. of California:
The work of the Masonic Information Committee has been somewhat
of a contemplative nature this year, which is a description I am sure is a
familiar one to most of you.
Following a year of considerable activity, it was your Committee's
feeling that this year we should direct our attention toward three areasand calculate accomplishment, if any, in these areas only:
1. To determine just how far we, as Masons, should go in the field
of communications.
2. To set up a procedure which would accomplish this objective.
3. To handle news releases of Grand Lodge activities.
Within these three areas, I have the following to report:
First is the determination of just how far we should proceed. This,
my Brethren. is not purely an academic question. Most of us, I am aware,
feel that we have been lacking for some years in properly telling our
story to the non-Masonic public and of not using our best efforts in the
creation of a good public image for the Masonic Fraternity. It was to
correct this that the Committee on Masonic Information was created.
There are others. however, who do not think we should put forth any
effort in the creation of a good name for ourselves; that we should avoid
all forms of public communication; and that we should keep all thoughts
and utterances Masonic wholly unto ourselves. It was, and still is, the
program of your Committee on Masonic Information to reconcile these
two schools of thought; and reconciled they must be, Brethren. This is
a Fraternity among whose members there should be no contention . We
must not create a division wherein a majority is called upon to rule. We
must find a path upon which we can all walk.
Our first step was the publication of a booklet which was, with only
a few (very few) minor changes, an address given before this Grand
Lodge by Theodore Meriam prior to his election as Junior Grand Warden and while he was a member of the Committee on Masonic Information. It is titled, If Freemasonry Is Good. Let Us Talk About It. A copy
was mailed to the Master of every Lodge in this jurisdiction with the
request that he read it and hand it to the other Officers of his Lodge
with the suggestion that they also read it. If you have not read it, may
I suggest that you have your Secretary dig it out of his files and permit
you to read it, even now.
This booklet does not say, Brethren, that we should erect any billboards, carry on any advertising campaign, establish any widespread
publicity or advertising program. It says we should clean the birds' nests

218

219

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

off our window sills. We should act the part we actually do play in our
communities. We should conduct ourselves always to create the image--

is planned for later this fall. By this time next year we should have two
cooperating Masonic Press Clubs in California--0ne in the south and
one in the north.
Third, is the releasing of such general publicity as is determined to
be right and proper. We have prepared stories which have been sent to
the press. Some have been used.
. .
To carry out this program the Committee requests an appropriation
in the amount of $3,500.00 for the ensuing year.
The opportunity of serving the Grand Lodge this past year _has. been
appreciated. We are starting slowly. Brethren. It is not our obiective to
make a big splurge all at once. Rather, we want to determin~ first where
we are going, and then, how we are going to get there, taking all members of the Masonic Fraternity with us-the old timers and the new
Master Masons. I hope the Committee which carries on this work next
year will enjoy the assignment as much as we have.
R espectfully submitted,

"QUALITY, DIGNITY, SUBSTANCE."

We proposed also, in our effort to establish an area or field of work
to publish a booklet on what a new Mason could and should tell hi~
friends. A newly raised Mason is enthusiastic. He is filled with good
thoughts and a general love of the Fraternity. He goes to work the morning after his raising and his fellow workers. who may or may not be
members (usually not), ask him what it was like. what they did, did he
"ride the goat." And, what can he say? ... "It was all secret." We think
perhaps he can say something about our great and consuming interest in
public education, in the Constitution, in our state and national history,
in the good things we stand for, and that we are not a religion but a
fraternity based upon moral truths, etc.
Midway during the year, however, the Grand Master asked that
stress on this particular project be handed to the Committee on Masonic
Education. I am sure you will be seeing something along this line very
soon, if indeed you have not already.
Second is the setting up of a procedure whereby we could best
accomplish this objective. Should all public statements be made from
Grand Lodge? Should they be originated on the local level only? Should
there be a combination of these and, if so. how should it be done? The
Committee feels that news is local. The people of Lodi are more interested in their o·wn local Lodge's Public School Week activity than they
are in a meeting of the Grand Lodge in San Diego, shall we say, and
rightly so. So are the papers in Lodi, which is more to the point. So, the
Committee on Masonic Information has set out to prepare for you. the
Masters of the Lodges in this Jurisdiction, a manual on how to write a
news story, what to write, what you should avoid, and how to get it into
the papers. This manual. or the first copy of it, has now been written.
It was prepared by the Masonic Press Club of Los Angeles with Brother
R. W. Latta, Vice-President of the Masonic Press Club, as Chairman
of the Committee which actually did the work. It is now under review
by members of the Committee on Masonic Information . When the manual is as free of bugs as is possible, it is our plan that it be sent to you
in the hope that it will be of assistance to you. We expect this will be
accomplished before the end of this calendar year.
We mentioned the Masonic Press Club of Los Angeles. We are
very proud of this active Masonic organization. It is well organized,
capably run, and a credit to our Fraternity. It is our hope and plan to
c rga nize a similar club in Northern California. Brother A. W. Bramwell, a member of Leland Stanford Lodge No. 784, Chico, and publisher
of the Chico Enterprise-Record. is Chairman of the Organizing Committee. The first meeting of this Committee has been held and another

WILLIAM H. ADAM S
HAMI LTON HINTZ
WILMER G. BRILL
ELMER P. BROMLEY
COPELAND DAVIS
CHARLES A. THOMASSET
RoGER EMERY BuTLER
CHARLES
SAVAGE
G LENDALL W. M c DERMOTT

J.

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
This year Lodges from many Districts have made their pilgrimag_e
to the Masonic Hall in Columbia to confer the various D egrees of this
Craft. They have enjoyed not only the qu~intnes.s of th~ S~irit of '49
that prevails in this area, but have also enioyed its hospitality as well
as the scenic beauty of The Mother Lode Country.
Fate has dealt rather harshly with The Columbia Temple Committee this last season and it is with deep regret we report the deaths of
Brothers Alfred Mailloux, Arthur Clink, and Cecil Mathews, Chairman
of the Committee.
In spite of these hardships. may we report tha t progress is be.ing
made to establish a Masonic Museum on the gro und floor of the building. When such plans are complete and in accord with the State Park
authorities, it is hoped that each Lodge in this Jurisdiction will have
6ome item of importance they would like to have displayed.

220

We wish to thank the Officers of Grand Lodge, th~ Officers and
members of Tuolumne Lodge No. 8, the Inspectors, and Buck Nelson
our custodian.
'
To all Lodges, we extend greetings and a cordial invitation to have
you confer a degree in this historic shrine.
With regard to the appropriation for Columbia Temple this next fiscal
year, we are at a loss to submit a comprehensive report due to the sudden death of Brother Cecil Mathews, our Chairman, and lack of sufficient records at this time.
Brother Buck Nelson informs us that the California State Park
authorities insist that approved type fire extinguishers, fire exit signs and
the steel doors at basement be installed without delay as this has been
their third request on this matter; also, the dehumidifier in the vault must
be replaced before the rainy season. the present one having been in
operation continually since the vault has been in use. These are items
that should have been taken care of under last year's budget at an estimated cost of $285.00, which would have shown an expenditure of
$1.465.90 instead of $1.080.90.
With due consideration as to operating and maintenance expense for
this next year, we respectfully request the sum of $1,500.00 as previously
budgeted for Columbia Temple. Should the plans for the Masonic
Museum be consummated this year, additional funds would be required
to carry out this project.
R espect f u 11 y sub m1tte
. d,
CHESTER M. SMITH
GEORGE L. JACOBS

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SOJOURNERS
To the Most Wor~hipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Once again it is our pleasure to report to you on the progress of
our Committee. Our principal project was the publishing of a brochure
on the sojourner problem, basing our conclusions and recommendations
upon data in our past files as well as upon current suggestions. This
brochure was sent to all Lodges. We trust it has been put to good use.
Our Committeemen made their usual appearances before various
Masonic bodies and associations, lending encouragement to the efforts
of the brethren to implement our program.
That our work is successful can be seen in the affiliation figures for
the past year. There were the usual transfers within the State, approximately 1600. However, there were 838 out-of-state affiliation•s, up from
780 in 1961. When we consider that the total net gain (including plural
members) was only 896 for 1962, we can easily see how important this
item is for our continued growth pattern.
We received reports of very successful "Sojourner Nights" from
various parts of the State. It appears, however, that only some of the
Lodges are carrying the load for all the rest. Once again we commend
the former, while urging the remainder to particpate in this very important activity.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM A. CoHENDET
FRANCIS H. GENTRY

REPORT OF CODE COMMISSION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Once again your Code Commission is pleased to report that a cumulative supplement for the California Masonic Code, covering the decisions approved and changes made in our law between 1957 and 1961.
was compiled and published following the close of the last Communication. As usual, plans have been made for the prompt preparation of a
similar cumulative supplement which will include the changes made at
the present Communication, as well as the prior changes.
It is requested that an appropriation of $150 be made to cover anticipated travel and other expenses of your Commission.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM NANKERVIS, JR.
EDWARD T. KoFORD
EVERETT HOUSER
DAVID P. RUSSELL
LEONARD
LURIE

s.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

221

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

WESTLEY P. JoNEs
EDWARD M. DowNs
BEN T. SALMON
JoHN RICHMOND

V. V. KoLOMBATov1c
ARTHUR CORBETT
GEORGE CORNWELL
JosEPH

v. ANTISTA

MELBOURNE

w. SCOTT

WALLACE F. POWERS
WILLIAM A. BoYEN

Referred to Committee on Finance.
At 4 :40 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. Wednesday.

222

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1962
. At 9:30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presidmg. ~he Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of the
mornmg and afternoon sessions of Tuesday, October 9th were read and
approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Since filing our report for 1961, there have been no changes in the
pa">".roll tax laws or the Federal Admissions Tax which apply to our
various Masonic organizations.
As has been our custom in past years, we present, for reference purposes, the usual schedule of tax rates and wage bases for the various
payroll taxes which will be in effect during the calendar year 1963 and
thereafter. We again present in our report a section on Federal Admissions T ax.
FEDERAL WITHHOLDING (INCOME) TAX
All wages paid to employees of a Masonic Lodge are subject to Federal income tax withholding. In order to determine the amount of income
tax which is to be withheld from wages paid to its employees, the Lodge
should ask each employee to complete and file with the Secretary of the
~dge a Federal Form W-4, Employee's Withholding Exemption Certificate. Refere~ce to withholding tax tables furnished by the Treasury
Department will enable the Secretary to determine the amount to be
withheld.
FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS (SOCIAL SECURITY)
An employee of a Masonic Lodge is subject to tax for each calendar
quarter during which he earns $50 or more. The tax rates shown below
are applicable to the first $4.800 of wages paid to each employee during
the calendar year. These ra tes are to be paid by both the employer and
the employee.

Per Cent
Calendar Year
1963 through 1965........................................................ 3%
1966 through 1967........................................................ 4.Ys
1968 and thereafter...................................................... 4%
There is a possibility that changes may be made by the Congress in
the wage base and/ or percentage rate applicable to the year 1963.
FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT T AX
Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if they employ four or
m~re individuals w~o are paid $50 or more per calendar quarter. For
this purpose, all paid employees of the Lodge, including the Secretary

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

223

and those who are performing ritualistic services (Tiler, Organist, Soloist). should be counted if they receive $50 or more per calendar quarter.
Federal Unemployment Tax at the rates shown below will be applicable to the first $3,000 of wages paid to each employee during the calendar year. However, Lodges which are subject to the California Unemployment Insurance Tax law, and which meet certain requirements, will
be entitled to a credit up to 2.7%. Only the employer pays Federal
Unemployment Tax.
Maximum Credit
for Payment of
Tax Rate
Tax Rate
(Net}
Calif. Unemp. Ins. Tax
(Gross}
Calendar Year
.8%
1963
2.7 %
3.5 %
1964 and
2.7 %
.4%
thereafter
3.1 %
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX
Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if the total wages paid
during a calendar quarter to taxable employees are in excess of $100.
For this purpose a taxable employee is one who is paid $50 or more per
calendar quarter. However, whether or not elected or appointed officials
of a Lodge are to be counted as taxable employees will depend upon
w hether or not the Lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax
Act.
If the Lodge is not subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act,
then the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be exempt
from California Unemployment Insurance Tax unless the wages paid
to these officials ~ceed $100 per month.
If the Lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act. then
the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be subject to
California Unemployment Insurance Tax if the wages paid to these
officials amou nt to $50, or more, per calendar quarter.
For purpose of this tax, the term "elected or appointed official" will
include any official of the Lodge who is compensated for his services.
Those usually compensated for their services are the Secretary, Tiler,
Organist, and Soloist.
If the Lodge is subject to California Unemployment Insurance Tax,
the tax rate shown below will be applicable to the first $3.800 paid to
each employee during the calendar year 1963. Only the employer pays
the tax:
Rates based on employment experience
Graduated from .3% to a maximum of 3.0%
State will furnish notification of £ate
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX - SOLVENCY FUND
Wages subject to the tax under the heading ''California Unemployment Insurance Tax'' will be also subject to this tax at the rate of .5%.
Only the employer pays this tax.

224

PROCEE DINGS OP THE
CALIFO RNIA DISABI LITY INSURA NCE TAX

~he rules regard ing covera ge, discuss ed under the headin g "Caliof the
fornia Unemp loymen t Insuran ce Tax," are the same for this part
applied
is
it
and
%
1
is
rate
tax
The
tax.
this
pays
ee
employ
law. Only the
1963
to the wage bases shown below (for example, in the calend ar year
ee).
employ
each
the tax will apply to the first $4 ,600 paid to
Wage Base
Calendar Year
1963 ·····---·-············ ----············------·--····---·-··--··-·$ i,600.0 0
1964 ··········· ·----·-··-·--------··········--····----·------··-···· 5, l 00.00
1965 and thereaf ter ············----·······--····---·····-·· 5,600.00
FEDERA L ADMISSIONS TAX

for
r:1a_sonic Lod_ges are required to collect this tax when the charge
ion.
admiss
per
$1.00
of
adm1ss1on to social or other events is in excess
t in
The rate is I¢ for each 10¢ or major fractio n thereof of the amoun
ion.
admiss
per
$1.00
of
excess
t of
There are require ments that tickets separa tely state the amoun
be
method
some
that
used,
not
are
tickets
when
or,
d
tax being charge
lar
particu
the
foJlowed to determine the numbe r of person s admitt ed to
event and the amoun t of tax due.
Respec tfully submit ted.
AL EXAND ER L. CROCE
JAMES E. HAMM OND
R OBERT R. YoRK

Adopte d.

RANC E
REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON INSUCalifor
nia:

To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F . 6 A. M. of
m
Recent ly the Insura nce Comm ittee review ed the insuran ce progra
inare
latter
the
where
Lodges
uent
constit
ng
includi
Lodge
of Grand
ce
cluded under blanke t policies of Grand Lodge and also the insuran
on the M asonic Homes and Clubho uses.
been
Our findings are that materia l improvement and progre ss has
m.
progra
this
in
ittee
Comm
our
made along the lines recommended by
of
ning
broade
ce,
existen
in
are
policies
By this we mean that fewer
is
m
progra
the
for
sibility
respon
the
nd
a
lished,
forms have been accomp
.
Broker
or
Agent
one
of
hands
the
in
placed
rapidly being
pro'!"e still feel ~hat the few Lodges not now enjoyin g the broad
Iny
Liabilit
Public
tection and premiu m saving s of the Grand Lodge
m.
progra
the
of
part
a
suran ce should again be approa ched to become
the
Over-a ll. in our opinion, the insuran ce is in good order, and
work
good
the
for
mented
compli
be
to
are
Grand Secreta ry and his staff
they have done in this connection.
Respec tfully submit ted .
T. J . C ARLILE
ALLER TON B. EBERT

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPO RNIA

225

REPO RT OF
SPEC IAL COM MITT EE ON DE MOLA Y
To the M ost Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A . M. of California:
the
Yo ur Comm ittee on DeMo lay is most pleased to report that
year.
past
this
g
durin
ss
progre
ant
signific
made
has
lay
DeMo
Order of
Grand
In our Jurisdiction, the proclam ation of DeMo lay Week by our
renia,
Califor
of
s
Master was receive d en thusias tically by the Mason
young
our
in
t
interes
ctive
sulting in a noticea ble increas e in constru
people .
apActive D eMola y commi ttees have been formed in most of the
Comlay
DeMo
the
is
note
lar
particu
Of
ry.
Mason
pendan t bodies of
has
mittee of the Southe rn Califor nia Past Master s' A ssociation which
n
directio
the
aggres sively approa ched the support of DeMo lay under
.
of its Chairm an, Most Worsh ipful Phil N . Myers
tors
Your Commi ttee has received many comme nts lauding the Inspec
they
that
advice
and
l
counse
ctive
constru
of this Grand Lodge for the
ive
have so graciou sly given to the DeMol ay leaders hip in their respect
works
Mason
the
aged
encour
lly
materia
has
ation
cooper
districts. This
ing and
ing with DeMol ay, with the result that their numbers are increas
a most constru ctive progra m of activities is evid ent.
lay
Many invitati ons were receive d to meet with Mason ic and DeMo
dis~
our
in
shown
t
interes
the
groups. The attenti on given to us and
of the
cussion s further empha size the growing awaren ess of the value
DeMolay movem ent.
tions
We again ha9 the pleasu re of attendi ng DeMo lay conven
Fairs.
throug hout the State, DeMo lay days a t the State and C ounty
inmany outstan ding ritual, athletic and social events, and the always
s'
Officer
ic
Mason
Diego
spiring DeMol ay Week observ ances of the San
ble
credita
most
a
in
ted
conduc
Associ ation. All functio ns observ ed were
every
manne r, and the Mason s respon sible for their supervision have
reason to be justly proud.
ed
It is our sincere recomm endatio n that this Comm ittee be continu
es.
expens
ary
necess
its
cover
to
riated
approp
be
$500
of
and that the sum
This Comm ittee wishes to expres s its apprec iation to our Most
t and
Worsh ipful Grand M aster, Guy B. Mize, for his genero us suppor
encour agemen t during the past year.
In closing, we would like to quote from a speech given by Judge
Ralph Hamill , Grand Master of the Order of DeMolay :
Now
"Tradi tionally and a llegoric ally Mason s have been builder s.
than
greater
much
job
they are in a positio n to undert ake a constru ction
better
of
out
men
better
of
g
even King Solomo n's Templ e- the buildin
boys .
"The various branch es of Mason ry have very comme ndably looked
er,
after the aged and incapa citated . V ery little has been done, howev

226

227

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

in the way
·
. of training our youth to appreciate and preserve the Amencan
way of hfe, the dignity of man, the Golden Rule, and the preservation
of .our form of government. Fast-moving international events patently
pomt up the fact that we desperately need leaders in our country wh
have been trained to think and act as the great M asonic leaders of oldo
This building of better men out of better boys is something that will liv~
forever. Daniel Webster put it this way:
'If we work upon marble, it will perish;
If we work upon brass, time will efface it ;
If we rear temples, they will crumble into dust;
But if we work upon immortal souls,
If we imbue them with principles.
With the just fear of the Creator and love of fellowman ,
We engrave on those tablets something which will brighten
eternity.'"

Grand Lodge Officers ................................. ........... .............................. 28
Past Grand Masters.............................................................................. 13
Officers and Representatives .............................•............•..................... 1442
Past Masters and Inspectors ................................................................ 164
Past Masters and Committeemen ........................................................ 138
Past Masters and Secretaries .............................................................. 164
Past Masters ........................................................................................ 647
Secretaries .............................................................................................. 74
Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions ................................................
6
Grand Secretaries from other Jurisdictions ................................. .......
3
Grand Officers and Past Masters of other Jurisdictions
(Including 8 Past Grand Masters) ................................................ 14
Special Guests ........................................................................................
7

Respectfully submitted,
HOMER E. RATHBUN
LESTER G. BRUNO
R o Y H. GERARD
HAROLD
MEDO
WILLIAM
DEWGAW
NoEL W. Ros ER

s.
w.

WILLARD WILL
HAL CURTIS
HENRY L. WINTZ
WENDELL M. ANDERSON
CLYDE PATENAUDE

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
Your Committee on Credentials submits the following report covering the I 13th Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
First, we desire to express our appreciation for the assistance and
cooperation given to us by the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand
Secretary and their staffs as well as that of the Building Manager and
the Grand Tiler; without this cooperation our chore would have been
more difficult.
The Committee desires to express its appreciation to Brother William
T. Corbusier, former Executive Secretary of the Long Beach Masonic
Board of Relief. For the past several years Brother Bill has volunteered
to and assisted in registering the Inspectors during their school of instruction.
We respectfully report:
That of the 700 Chartered Lodges 683 are represented. Six of the
six Lodges under dispensation are represented. The total registration is
made up as follows:

TOTAL . .......................... .......................... - . .......... ....................... ... 2700
In addition, there were 368 Master Masons visiting Grand Lodge.... 368
GRAND TOTAL ..........................................................................3068
Respectfully submitted,
THOS. F. MA SO N
DoN E. BERRY
EMIL
TR E PTS
JESSE M. FEW

w.

HARRY F. LUTTICKEN
JosEPH RoBRECHT, JR.
WILLIAM REX HOOVER

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 113th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
.
.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master, or m his
absence the ranking Warden. or in the absence of the Master and Wardens, the duly elected Representative; each Inspector, provided he is reported present on the certificate filed with the Committee on Pay of
Members by the Grand Lecturer; Past Grand Maste~s; Offi~ers of the
Grand Lodge; Chairmen of Committees enumerated 1~ Section 1.92 of
the California Masonic Code; members of the followmg Committees:
Jurisprudence; Policy and General Purposes; Grievances; Finance: C£edentials; Pay of Members; Charters: By-Laws; Corres~ondence; Lodge
Financing; and Code Commission who are actually m attendance. a t
Grand Lodge, and who comply with all provisions as noted in Section
176 of the California Masonic Code.
Mileage from the various points within the State of California t~
San Francisco has been taken from the published records of the Cali-

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

points in the S
fornia St~te Autom obile Assoc iation . Milea ge from
publis hed re tate
the
from
taken
of ~a~au t~ San Franc isco has been
. cords
M
.
Cal·f
74
I
n
Sectio
with
dance
accor
m
ason 1c Cod
of air Jmes,
1 orma
•
d .
Se,
members f
~s am~n ed m I 961 . No compensati on is allow ed to
an
f
rom
memb
of
ranc1sco, or the immediate vicinity. Comp ensati on
rom
ers
b
has
·
wa1·1
a
H
of
the State of Califo rnia and the State
uted on
.
· f seven ( 7) cents per mile, the rate fixed beenth comp
C
th b as1s
o
e
Y e omm1ttee
on Finan ce.
b
record s
The payroll has been checked with the regist ration
u~~
r:s
nts
amou
the
and
,
ntials
Crede
on
ittee
witted to us by the Comm
.ed
q
.
c
al
Annu
to meet the transp ortati on costs for the 1962
ommumcation
are as foilows :

REP ORT OF THE BOA RD OF DIRE CTO RS
OF THE
AT THE UNIV ERS ITY
B
CLU
MAS ONIC
BERKELEY, CAL IFOR NIA

228

90.79
Gran d Lodge Officers .......................................... $ J ,I
0
175.3
Past Grand Maste rs ..
········· ···························· ····· 6 676 I 5
Inspectors ......... .
.
-·----···-----···-----------··--···-----·-······-- ,
.60
1,832
....
.........
.........
.........
.........
Comm ittees ......... .........
2
...
.........
s
Repre sentat ives of Lodge
·················· ···· 7,070.30
1
TOT AL ..................................•..................... $37,215. I
D esk on
·
ution at the Reg·s
s will be
1 t ra t ion
. for distrib
. ready
F ·dCheck .
r Gra d
Junio
the
of
on
electi
the
ing
follow
y
n ay mornmg 1mmed1atel
.n
d
Wa
W arden . Breth ren, if you are the Master • or
r en repres entmg
Lod
of
Pa
the
.
ge, or ~he Electe d Repre sentat ive of your Lodge
your
ch~ck
your
up
pick
Memb ers Committee would like to urge you to please
to ca sh th · ·
Arran gements have been made so that those who desire
tel Bran:~:
Ho
nt
airmo
F
,
Bank
checks may do so ~t the_Unite d c .a liforn ia
Grand
Your
.
Hotel
ont
Fairm
the
of
side
t
Stree
locate d on the ~alifo:ma
Lodge Crede ntials will serve as suitab le identification.
Respe ctfull y subm itted,
KEITH W . ScHLA EGEL
J OHN V. BACIG ALUPI
GILBE RT BENO IT
RICHA RD LERO Y STEPH ENSEN

MATT HEW M . C ODON
WILL IAM D. KNIGH T
GERA LD A. SHAR ER

Refer red to Comm ittee on Finan ce.

229

California:
To the Mo st Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A . M. of
Annu al Repo rt
Your Board of Direc tors is please d to submi t its
for the fiscal year endin g July 31, 1962.
Califo rnia stuThis Club was organ ized to give the Unive rsity of
s with similar backdent a good enviro nmen t and welt-c hosen comp anion
forth as a good
go
groun ds and goals, that he might be prepa red to
of specu lative
ple
princi
the
citizen in his community. thereb y puttin g
field.
l
fruitfu
and
Maso nry into practi ce in a large
e life amon g
The stude nt is throw n into the whirl of a busy colleg
nic Club
Maso
nal
ucatio
co-ed
Our
more tha n 25,00 0 other students.
time
first
the
for
ten
of
who
nt,
stude
the
provid es comp anion ship to
of
s
period
in
e
advic
and
el
couns
for
ds
Frien
.
is away from home
in
ance
assist
ial
doubt ; warm -heart ed encou ragem ent, or even financ
away
home
"
their
in
here
small amou nts, if neces sary, are provid ed
ses, Mrs. Janice
from home " by the two most able and gracio us hostes
liness, and
friend
th,
warm
the
all
with
lff.
Kohl and Mrs. Stuar t Kieru
secure in
feel
may
rents
pa
nic
Maso
le.
possib
is
under stand ing that
, and
siastic
. enthu
the know ledge that their childr en are in a happy
rnia.
Califo
of
rsity
dignified environm~t while attend ing the Unive
progr am conOur main objec tive is to provi de an active social
activities.
such
for
sisten t with the limited time the stude nt has availa ble
the Club
of
es
featur
used
Perha ps one of the mos t impor tant and most
classe s;
en
betwe
relax
and
study
is its loung e where stude nt members
equip office
ent
excell
has
Club
The
ce.
its librar y with the big firepla
ators, comptome~
ment to help the student, such as typew riters , calcul
are also the kitche n
ters, ditto machi ne, and sever al study rooms . There
and dining areas, game rooms and the ballro om.
as dance s, supMost week ends there are special social event s such
affairs. At the
l
pers, "folk sings, " picnics, beach partie s, and forma
gaily decor ated
huge
a
by
Chris tmas seaso n the loung e is transf ormed
il.
preva
decor
Chris tmas tree and the holida y spirit and
ittees, such
The Boa.rd of Direc tors is organ ized into many comm
meeti ngs,
nt
stude
and
as maint enanc e and repair , perso nnel, club house
chairEach
tive.
execu
and
fund,
finance and invest ment, stude nt loan
deem
they
as
act
to
ity
nsibil
respo
full
given
man and his committee a re
ng.
meeti
ly
month
its
at
tors
Direc
of
Board
the
neces sary and repor t to
hoste sses to
A long range progr am has been plann ed by the two
of an innce
guida
the
With
.
improve the interi or of the club house

230

231

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

terior decorator, improvements are taking place, such as re-'Covering
furniture, replacements of old furniture, better lighting. repainting, and
rea£1ranging of equipment.
In addition to use by the students, the use of the club house facilities has been extended to the East Bay Masters and Wardens Association. Berkeley-Albany Masters and Wardens Association, Masonic
Lodges, University Square Club, and the DeMolay. It is the hope
of the Board that many Masons attending their Grand Lodge Communication this year may find time to visit the club house and see for
themselves the excellent facilities available for use by the students.
The budget for the fiscal year ending July 31. 1963, adopted by
the Board, and previously submitted to the Finance Committee, is
attached hereto a s Exhibit Number One and is incorporated as a
part of this report.
The Board recommends, in furtherance of its objective of obtaining a greater use of the club house at Berkeley, that an annual letter
from the Grand Master. preferably timed to be read at the June Stated
Meetings, be mailed to the various Lodge Secretaries, reminding California Masons about the two club houses, and particularly calling to
the Craft's attention the fact that those eligible to membership are
Masons, the sons, daughters and blood relatives of Masons. that personal membership in the Masonic Order is not a requisite, and that
the club is co-educational.
The Board also recommends that the foregoing information and
other suitable publicity about the two dub houses appear annually in
the summer issue of the California Freemason.
Your Board of Directors deem it a privilege to serve this worthy
Masonic activity.
Respectfully submitted,

MASONIC CLUB AT THE UNIVERSITY
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA
BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31 , 1963
SALARIES :
Resident Hostess ··------·-··-··-----$3.360.00
Social Hostess ·-·····-·-···-·········· 3,600.00
Accountant --·----······----------··-···· 480.00
Janitor and gardener------·········- 1,500.00
$8,940.00
UTILITIES :
Gas, electricity a nd water ........ 1,200.00
75.00
Garbage -·----···-·-···········-········ ··
300.00
Telephone ··················-·····-·······
SUPPLIES :
Janitorial ··············-··············-····
Garden --··························--··· -··
Office, printing , periodicals ....

275.00
100.00
300.00

TAXES:
Payroll -·······-···---·········-············- 250.00
Property ... ················--····-··-····· 4,000.00
INSURANCE:
Fire Insurance ( 7-1-62 to
7-1-63) ·-··············· ·-·· ··········· 523.25
Liability ( 12-1-62 to
12- 1-63) ......:....................... 690.31
Compensation ( 8-1-62 to
85.00
8-1-63) ·······-······-···-·············

President ( 1963 )
Vice President ( 1963)
GENE

C. OTWELL,

Secretary ( 1965 )
CHARLES P. DALZIEL,

Treasurer ( 1964)
JOHN L. WIXON ,

Assistant Secretary ( 1964)
F. BLACK ( 1964)
RUSSELL C. HORSTMANN ( 1963 )
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN ( 1965)
PAULS. BOREN ( 1965)
Referred to Committee on Finance.
GORDON

675.00

4,250.00

1,298.56
$16,738.56

ORVILLE J. SIPE,
WALLACE E. YORK,

1,575.00

BUILDING AND CONTENTS:
Repairs, maintenance (bldg .. ) 2,500.00
Repairs, furniture ········-·-········· 1,200.00
Replacement, furniture -··········· 1,500.00
Annual cleaning ·····-·-····---······· 400.00
PROMOTIONAL
ACTIVITIES ---·---·············
AUD IT ·······--·····-·····-··-················
MISCELLANEOU S ................

5,600.00

400.00
200.00
150.00

400.00
200.00
150.00

DEPRECIATION .................... 4,000.00

23,088.56
4,000.00

TOTAL BUDGET

$27,088.56

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE MASONIC CLUB
UNIVERSIT Y OF CALIFORNI A AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
It has been several years since we have given a brief resume of the
Club's activities, and therefore we submit the following:
A full social calendar is provided during the school year with
Coffee Hours on Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons, Friday and/or
Saturday night parties, dinners before Council Meetings (open to all
members}. Monthly Dinners before all General Meetings. The ~mmmer
program includes beach parties, bridge parties, and trips to the Hollywood Bowl. Greek Theater and baseball games.
Following are some of the year's highlights:
There is an orientation program at the beginning of each semester,
during which pamphlets of our Club are sent to all students entering
the University. A booth is maintained on campus to distribute liternture
and acquaint the newcomers with the Club and its activities.
A Thanksgiving dinner is held for under-priviledg ed children, each
Club Member paying for his own and one child's dinner.
A Christmas Party is held for parents, initiation of new Member-s,
and various honor awards. This usually has an attendance of about 275
people.
The Reception for the Grand Master is the highlight of the year,
and also has an attendance of about 275 people.
Last year, our Club participated in the Mardi Gras at UCLA and
received two trophies. The proceeds from this activity were used to help
maintain a camp for needy children.
There is a Spring Initiation of new Members, at which further
honor awards are made.
These are but a few of the various activities that help to keep our
members occupied.
There has been considerable comment in our last few reports about
the Masonic Club movie. This movie was shown to the members at last
Grand Lodge, and appeared to be well received. The purpose is to make
available to all Lodges something that describes the Club and its
activities. This movie has been shown by four Northern California
Lodges, nineteen Southern California Lodges, and various DeMolay,
Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls, Eastern Star and service groups. We
are quite pleased with the picture's reception, and the various favorable
comments that have been received from these groups. The picture is
available to anyone who would like to show it at any Lodge or other
Masonic group. A request to our resident hostess will secure the picture.
Shown below is our 1962-63 Budget with explanatory footnotes.
Again, it has been a distinct pleasure for your Board of Directors
to have served during the past year. It has been a rewarding experience
for all of us, and we are gratified for having been given the opportunity
of serving.

233

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BUDGET 1961-1962
MASONIC CLUB
UNIVERSIT Y OF CALIFORNI A AT LOS ANGELES
961-62
EXPENSE

BUDGET

Director .............................................. $ 4,092 .06
Associate Director ........................... . 1.406.64
Building Assistants .......................... 1,244.43
579.77
Gardening & Gardening Supplies ....
82.40
Newspapers and Magazines ........... .
Heat, Light, Water and Power ........ l ,275.90
Bldg. Repairs, Supplies and
Replacements ............................ 2.786.14
422.91
Telephone ...................................... .
34.45
Office Supplies .......................... ........
144.57
Postage .................... ---··········-----·········-·-·
T axes:
Property ................................... . 3,625.43
876.00
Withholding ...........................
579.81
Payroll .....................................
827.83
Insurance ....................................... .....
5.50
Safe Deposit Rental ..........................
150.00
Auditing ............................................
168.61
Printing and Stationery ....................
144.00
Refuse Service ..................................
Retirement Fund P ayment
172.50
(Faith G. Sheldon) ..................
Masonic Club Movie ...................... .. 2,400.17
248.10
Miscellaneous ................................... .
Depreciation ......................................

$ 5,400.00
1,800 .00
1.800.00
750.00
100.00
1,300.00

$21,267.22

$29.564.00

Our depreciation is determined as follows:
Building and Landscaping
(less depreciation) .................... $42,450.35
Depreciation on basis of
fifteen years .............................. ..
Furniture and Equipment
(less depreciation} .................... 4,314.21
Depreciation on basis of
one year ......................................

$ 2,830.00

Total D epreciation ........... .

$ 7,144.00

----

Total

4,000.00
430.00
50.00
150.00
3,800.00
930.00
600.00
830.00
6.00
150.00
150.00
144.00
180.00
150.00
7,144.00

4,314.00

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

How ever, some of h
Our Budg et is abou t the same as last year.
t e
fi gure s are expla ined as follows:
th
of
use
beca
incre ased
Ite~ of Buildin.g repai rs, etc., has been dress
ing rooms and 1 e
the
in
bing
plum
the
cing
repla
of
ssity
nece
have omi~ted sh~:
We
.
ering
~ost of the fu~niture requ ires re-upholst
completed last year.
was
it
as
ie,
Mov
the
mg any figure m our budg et for
Resp ectfu lly subm itted ,
PAUL R. NICH OLS

Pres ident (196 4)

S. RoY HOW ELL

Vice -Pre siden t ( 1963)

c. EARLE CRANE

Secr etary -Trea surer ( 1963 )
THOM AS CARR ROLL ( 1964 )
ELVI N c. DRAK E ( 1964 )
M.A . DUN CAN ( 1964 )
GEOR GE E. HAL L (I 963)
FRAN K M. JENK INS ( 1965 )
JOHN KLAR QU!S T ( 1965 )
GEOR GE KUSS MAN { 1965 )
BATE S MASO N ( 1963 )
FRAN K H. REIN SCH ( 1963)
CLYD E 0. SHOE MAK ER (196 5)
A. CURT IS SMIT H ( 1965 )
EDW1 N w . WAD E ( 1964)
nce.
Fina
on
Refe rred to Com mitte e

235

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

MEM ORI AL SER VIC E

Mue ller, Gran d Orga nist
Orga n Prelu de................ ........................Haro ld
Kellems, Gran d Chap lain
lnvo catio n ....... _.....................The Rev. Jesse R.
........ .... Aust in Mos her
Voca l $010................................ ................................
..............Adam B. Morten
Necr olog y Repo rt ................................................
........••..Aust in Mos her
Voca l 5010................................................ ........ .•......
.......... H enry C . Clau sen
Eulo gy-L loyd Earl Wils on ................ ................
........ ........Myr on E. Smith
Eulo gy-C harle s Al bert Adam s ........................
................ Gran d Chap lain
Benedictio n ........................................................
d Orga nist and Voca list
Taps.............................................................. Gran

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON NEC ROL

OGY

A. M. of Calif ornia :
To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Lodg e F. &
l are those quote d
Some of the most familiar lines in Maso nic Ritua
is of few days.
an
wom
a
of
from the Book of Job. "Ma n that is born
cut down : he
is
and
r
flowe
a
like
and full of trouble. He cometh forth
al service we
funer
our
In
not."
nueth
fleeth also as a shad ow and conti
thou art and unto dust
add, "The almi ghty fiat has gone forth, dust
ct to that decree the daily
shalt thou retur n," and that we are all subje
to be forgo tten.
obse rvation of our lives furnishes evidence not
atten ded the funer al
Prob ably durin g the past year most of us have
and dear to us.
near
been
services of some, of our Breth ren who have
" Whe n we
Fiat.
ighty
"Alm
the
and we have felt the inevitableness of
us with
upon
in
e
born
is
it
"
ings,
come to this place in our "Pro ceed
yea r
past
the
g
durin
that
rt
repo
to
has
great force. Your Committee
the
by
been summ oned
three hund red and eight y of our members have
Two
es.
Lodg
d by many
Ange l of Deat h. The losses have been share
or more of their Past
one
lost
have
es
Lodg
our
of
y
eight
hund red and
are two of our very
more
Masters. Amo ng those who walk with us no
2, 1961 , Lloy d Earl
mber
Nove
distin guish ed Past Gran d Masters. On
the Cele stial Lodg e
in
d
raise
was
,
Wils on, also Past Gran d Secr etary
Past Gran d Mast er Henr y
abov e. A suitable eulog y will be prese nted by
On May 1, 1962 , durC. Clau sen. (Prin ted in the 1961 Proc eedin gs.) he foun ded in 1919 ,
h
ing observence of Public Scho ols Wee k, whic
A eulog y for Brot her
rd.
rewa
his
to
d
calle
was
s
Adam
C harles Albe rt
Smith.
E.
n
Adams will be prese nted by Worshipful Myro
ctors , three form er
Inspe
two
Amo ng the three hund red eight y are
e Committees.
Lodg
d
Gran
on
d
Inspe ctors and two who have serve
INSPE CTOR S

N. Past Mas ter of
WA LTE R WIL LIA M BAR RAT T CLA YTO
in June, 1943, he serve d as
Atas cade ro Lodg e No. 493. Raised a Maso n

236

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Master of his Lodge in 1947. In 1952 be was installed as Junior Grand
Deacon of this Grand Lodge and served with distinctio n in that office.
On Novemb er 27, 1956, he was commissioned Inspecto r of District No.
421 and served in that capacity until the time of his death on Decembe r
23, 1961. A conscientious officer and a kindly man, Walter was loved
by the many Brethren who knew him well.
OTTO FRANK LINK. Raised a M ason in Union Lodge No. 58 on
Septemb er 17, 1924, he served tha t Lodge as its Master. Commissioned
as Inspector in Novemb er, 1954, he served District 215 to the time of
his death on December 5, 1961.
FORMER INSPECTO RS

ROBER T NORMA N GRAHA M WALKE R. Bob Walker was
raised a M as ter Mason in June, 1939, in Palo Alto Lodge No. 346 and
served as Master of that Lodge in 1945. He was also a Past Master of EI
~amino R esearch Lodge and was a member of other Masonic organiza tions. He was commissioned as Inspecto r in July, 1948, and continue d
t~ serve J?istrict 368 until the end of December, 1957. During tha t time
his capacity to serve, and deep interest in the Brethren in his Lodges.
endeared him not only in his own D istrict but thro ughout all the Lodges
in the Santa Clara Valley. It came as a shock to many to know that Bob
had passed away on March 3, 1962, at the comparti vely early age of 57
years. His large heartedn ess inspired kindlines s and a strong spirit of
fraternit y among his Brethren , and Bob Walker is missed very much in
Santa Clara County.
WESLE Y WILLIA M KERGA N. A very well known and highly
respected Mason, particula rly in East Bay Masonic Circles, was called
from labor on April 3. 1962. Brother Kergan was raised a Master Mason
in Sequoia Lodge No. 349 on Decembe r 2, 1912, and served as its
Master in 1920. H e was commissioned Inspecto r in 1921 and continue d
~o serve in the old 35th District until 1939-fo r 18 years. H is help and
influence were real factors in molding the fraternal spirit in East Bay
Masonry. In 1947-48, when Most Worship ful Chester H. Warlow was
Grand Mas ter, he served this Grand Lodge with distinctio n as its Grand
~arshal. He served the cause and spirit of M asonry long and ably, and
his labor has not been in vain in the Lord.
WILLIA M NICKSO N PEDDE R was raised a Master Mason in
Anchor Lodge N o. 273 on November 25, 1926. In 1937 he affiliated with
Temple City Lodge No. 612, a nd served as Master of that Lodge in
1945. H e was commissioned an Inspecto r in May, 1950, and served
Distric.t No. 538 for four years. Brother P edder passed away in Port
of Spam on the Island of Trinidad on July 16, 1962, and funeral services,
conducte d by Temple City Lodge No. 612 , were held in Temple City
on July 30, 1962.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

237

G RAND L ODGE COM M ITTEE MEN

LEO ELLSW ORTH SIEVER T. a Vice Presiden t of the Santa F e
Railway, and an outstand ing civic leader, passed away in Karachi,
Pakis tan, on M ay 2, 1962. after a very brief illness. Brother Sievert was
raised a Master Mason on April 7, 1920. was a charter member of San
Marino Lodge No. 685, and served that Lodge as its Master in 1947.
During the years he was Senior Warden and Master of his Lodge-1946 and 1947- he served as a member of the Grievanc es C ommittee
of this Grand Lodge, and 1949 through 1954 he was a Director of the
Berkeley Clubhou se. At the time of his death he was a member of
the Grand Lodge Retireme nt P lan Committee. An outstand ing attorney
and business executive. Brother Sievert had served on many importan t
universit y and civic committees and received many honors for his distinguishe d service. His family home was in San M ateo and he is survived by his wife, three sons and two da ughters. This Grand Lodge
lost a very able member and Californ ia an outstand ing citizen when
Leo Sievert was taken from us.
HARRY G . WILSO N. The City of Redland s was saddened by
the sudden death of its Councilm an and former Mayor, H arry G.
Wilson, on August 13, 1962. Brother Wilson was a member of Redlands Lodge No. 300 and served as its Master in 1957. H e was a member of the Grand Lodge Committ ee on Research from 1958 to 1960.
Redland s was s hocked by his death and the present Mayor of the
City wrote, "In my opinion, he was one of the kindest persons I have
ever known and also one of the most unselfish with his own time and
consider able ability. H e never said ' no' when it was somethin g for his
Church, his Lodge, his clubs, or his commun ity.
SAMUE L EDWAR D LEDDE L. Just before this Grand Lodge
convened word was received that Brother Samuel E. Leddel of Long
Beach passed away on Septemb er 28th. Raised a Master Mason on
October I 8, 1932. he served Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674 as its Master
in 1939. H e was Senior Grand Steward during the year 1955-56 when
Most Worship ful Edgar V. Stewart, Jr .. was G rand Master. For a number of years he had served on the Cemeter ies Committ ee of this Grand
Lodge and since I 960 has been Chairma n o f that Committee. At the
time of his death Brother Leddel was also a member of the boards of
the P sychiatric Clinic for Children; Long Beach Memoria l Hospital ;
Jewish Commun ity Federation and other civic committi es. His death
at the early age of 52 is a real loss to both his city and to our fraternity .
A complete list of the three hundred and eighty is attached to and
made a part of this report. None of us will know all the names. but all
o f us will know some whose names are there. They were Brethren
with whom we served and to whom we were closely bound by ties of
friendship. We cannot escape a measu re of the sense of loss, but we
are not of those "who, hopeless lay their dead away." We would not
sit in sadness but rather be thankful that we have been privileged to

238

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

.
have fellowship with them and re'oice that the
~ity
;!h1flteg
m~~n
Yeii'o:e
their
and
Coun~.
who served their God, their
an~e}.1ty.
soul
the
of
lity
immorta
the
in
is
One of o~r cardinal beliefs
we
cannot think of them as dead . who walk with us no more .. ,
.
"They never quite leave us, our friends
Who have passed
Through the shadows of death to the
Sunlight above;
A thousand sweet memories are
Holding them fast
To the places they blessed with their
Presence and love."
in t~~ ~r=t~or:ifo.:;ed by the kn.~wledge that our Brethren are happy
eds ouse, where God shall wipe away all tears from
th .
n eir e~es. an . where there shall be no more death, neither sorrow
or crymg. Neither shall there by any more pain ' for the former th'mgs
are passed away."
ADAM B. MORTEN
Ross K. RoPER
EMORY 0. HULL, JR.
MYRON E. SMITH
WALTER B. MEYERS

EULOGY
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS
PAST GRAND MASTER

See Page 303

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PAST MASTER S OF CONSTIT UENT LODGES
Californi a Lodge No. l
George Isaac Williams , died April 29, 1962
Tuolumn e Lodge No. 8
Bert Chester Bullock, died July 30, 1961
Arthur Earl Clink, died March 13, 1962
San Jose Lodge No. 10
Henry Granville Hill, died February 26, 1962
Yount Lodge No. 12
Robert Smyth Holden, died July 23, 1961
George Nelson Ball, died January 10, 1962
Clarence William Frederic Merwin, died June 17, 1962
Nevada Lodge No. 13
John William Darke, died February 25, 1962
Temple Lodge No. 14
William W. Smircich , died Decembe r 29, 1961
Richard P. Golladay t died January 24, 1962
Benjamin Bordson, aied March 3, 1962
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17
Henri Mottet, died Septemb er 22, 1961
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
Ellwood Coggesha ll Wilder, died Augus t 14, 1961
Madison Lodge No. 23
Carl Clifford Kitts, died August 16, 1961
Mariposa Lodge No. 24
William Thomas Rhodes, died July 4, 1961
Georgeto wn Lodge No. 25
Thomas M. H awkins, died February 13, 1962
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30
Albert Ernest Witcher, died April 17, 1962
Carl Moeller, died June 28, 1962
San Diego Lodge No. 35
Isadore Mallen, died Decemb er 23, 1961
Robert Murray McDonal d, died March 19, 1962
Hiram Lod.g e No. 43
Alger William Harvey, died Augus t 22, 1961
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44
Alphonse Fred Mailloux , died March 8, 1962
Union Lodge No. 58
Otto Frank Link, died Decembe r 5, 1961
Live Oak Lodge No. 61
Elijah Hubert Steete, died July 19, 1961
Abraham Powell Leach, died May 5, 1962
Martin Meno Hoffman, died June 28, 1962
Morning Star Lodge No. 68
Arthur Wayne McGowe n died January 17, 1962
Ralph Roosevel t Beatie, died February 13, 1962
Asa Van Covert Martin. died May 5, 1962
Enterpris e Lodge No. 70
Frank Nelson McCollum , died January 3, 1962
Humbold t Lodge No. 79
Frank Arthur Silence, died April 20, 1962
Vesper Lodge No. 84
William Jerome Edgar, died May 26, 1962
Hornito1 Lodge No. 98
John William Collins, died January 4, 1962
Lexingto n Lodge No. IO•
Edgar A. Wilkerson , died March 30, 1962
Arcata Lodge No. 106
Alfred Matthew s, died June 7, 1962

239

210

PROCE EDING S OP THE

Pajaro Lodge No. 110
Warre n Hill Davis, died Novem ber 20 1961
Harol d Ray Hushb eck, died Febru ary' 11 1962
Don Olive r Coleg rove, died Febru ary 17' 1962
Summ it Lodge No. 112
'
Harry Conge r Bower s, died Septe mber
1961
Adolp h Edison Schell , died Decem ber 6,27
1962
Conco rd Lodge No. 117
Benja min Theod ore Maier, died J uly 29, 1961
Alfred Budd Oldfie ld, d ied J a nuary 3, 1962
Sotoy ome Lodge No. 123
Edwin Davis Thom pson, died March 15 1962
Table Moun tain Lodge No. 124
'
Raym ond Newto n Evans , died March 6, 1962
Lafay ette Lodge No. 126
Cort Gusta v Husin g, died Novem ber 12
Earl Charle s Alland er, died Decem ber 251961
1961
Nicola us Lodge No. 129
'
Ottis Keyes Rodda n, died May 29, 1962
Since rity Lodge No. 132
Charl es Curtis Siebe, died Octob er 4, 1961
Lee Cliffo rd Newto n, died Janua ry 29, 1962
Fre~ Marti n ~a:ylor , died Fe bruary l,
1962
Cecil L eon WdlJa ms, died April 29, 1962
Valley Lodge No. 135
Ralph Miles Foote, died Augus t 15, 1961
Pacifi c Lodge No. 136
Charl es E. Jackso n, died Febru ary 28 1962
Herm an Werts ch, died June 8, 1962 '
Crock ett Lodge No. 139
Richa rd Eugen e Schrie ber, died Octob er 27, 1961
Grafto n Lodge No. 141
Forre st Rober t Russe ll, died Octob er 17 1961
Frank lin Lodge No. 143
'
Steph en Frede rick Herin ger, died April 10 1962
Orien tal Lodge No. 144
'
Claren ce Walke r Dobie , died July 30 1961
Jo~3:nnes Dirk Julian us, died Augus t 22, 1961
Willia m Shofn er Wells, died J anuar y 5 1962
Vitruv ius Lodge No. 145
'
Mauri ce J. Thom as, died Decem ber 7, 1961
Abell Lodge No. 146
Hale McCo wen, died Novem ber 28, 1961
Georg e P. Ander son, died Janua ry 23, 1962
Lasse n Lodge No. 149
Charle s Gibso n Benne tt, died July 21, 1961
Wood land Lodge No.15 6
Jacob D. Musgr ove, Jr., died June 12, 1962
Excels ior Lodge No. 166
Charl es Alber t Adam s, died May 1 1962
Delbe rt Matth ews Broy, died April 3, 1962
Darre ll Allen Hare, died Janua ry 19, 1962
Alame da Lodge No. 167
Ernes t Martin , died Decem ber 24, 1961
Jack Prouty , died April 1, 1962
Missio n Lodge No. 169
Harry Forne y Borde n, died Decem ber 27, 1961
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173
Keith Frede rick Dougl as, died Augus t 7, 1961
Dryto wn Lodge No. 174
James Alston Ross, died May 5, 1962

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

Mendo cino Lodge No. 179
Earl Mayfi eld Ellis, died May 22, 19692 1962
Archi e Andre w Gordo n, died Jun e 1 ,
Petalu ma Lodge No. 180
.
1962
Park Ander son Van Bebbe r, died
June 9,
Clear Lake Lodge N.o. 183 .
John Franci s, died Apnl 2~, 1962
Alber t Hiram Kenne dy, died May 30, 1962
Claibo rne Lodge No. 185
.
Frank Walto n Reyno lds, died April
8, 19 62
Oakla nd Lodge No. 188
.
Willia m Malco lm Huffm an, died
March 26, 1962
Marin Lodge No. 191
·
17 1961
Philip Henry Hilleb rand, died
July ' 24 1961
Willia m Thom as Smart , died Septem
ber ,
Santa Barba ra Lodge No. 192
Finlay A. MacK enzie, died Octob er 12, 1961
James Scott, d ied Novem ber 7, 1961
Silvey ville Lodge No. 201
Rowla nd Moss d ied Septe mber 9, 1961
Carl E. Schme iser, died May 24, 1962
Confid ence Lodge No. 203
Roy F. Wiene ke. died Septe mber 3, 1961
Salina s Lodge No. 2o4
·
5 1962
John Alexa nder Anders on, died
May •
Edwin Wiley Reeves, died June 10, 1962
Anahe im Lodge No. 207
Cheste r E. Holco mb, died Novem ber 11, 1961
King David's Lodge No. 209
Rober t Dowd le Squire, died August 27, 19 61
Friend ship Lodge No. 210
Darre ll John Sedgw ick . died D ecem b er 12, 1961
South San Franc isco Lodge No. ed
Rober t John Rasm ussen, d t 212Septemb er 6 • 1961
San Buena ventu ra LoDdge N
o.f21di~ ed D ecemb er 25 1961
Norm an Ottma n ear dor
,
'
Home r Wheel er, died Jan uary 27, 1962
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215
Paul Henry Baxte r, died Augus t 12, 1961
Georg e Ernes t Furbu sh, d ied J anuar y 13, 1962
Doric Lodge No. 216
·
Herm an Hartm an Young , died
Augus t 9 , 1961
8
Mosai c Lodge No. 2l
John Wesle y House r, died Augus t 22, 1961
Glenn 0. Small comb, died Octob er 17, 1961
Spera nza Italian a Lodge No. 219
Pietro P . Balest racci, die d Octob er 11, 1961
Inyo Lodge No. 221
Lester Harol d Baxte i:. died July 27, 196120 1962
Edwa rd Christ ian Fnes, died Febru
ary •
Brook lyn Lodge No. 225
Edwin "J" Wold, died Novem ber 16, 1961
Athen s Lodge No. 228
Lloyd Burne tt, d ied Decem ber 3, 1961
Solan o Lodge No. 229
Henr Augus t Frahm , died Augus t 25, 1961
Ray~ond Alexa nder Hunt,
died Septem ber 21, 1961
Covel o Lodge No. 231·
Lawre nce J. Lane, died Janua ry 10, 1962
Janesv ille Lodge No. 232 .
Willia m J enkins Davi~ . di. ed July 5. 1961
Elmer Alvin Kellog g, di ed Octob er 22, 1961
Arad Way, died June 9, 1962

211

242

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236
Dan Melvin Cook, died November 3, 1961
Colusa Lodge No. 240
George Pettis Barnes, died February 8, 1962
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241
Horace Jay Howard, died June 5, 1962
Magnolia Lodge No. 242
J ohn August Weissend, died November 19 1961
Frank Wellington Cole, died January 26, 1962
Laurel Lodge No. 245
Herbert L eo Murch, died December 28, 1961
Alturas Lodge No. 248
Milan E. Briles, died November 14 1961
Leon Thomas Smith, died June 29,' 1962
Reading Lodge No. 254
Emil Michael Wickert, died March 2, 1962
Hugh Hall Shuffleton, Jr., died April 14, 1962
Welcome Lodge No. 255
Walter Nelson Hubbard, died December 29 1961
'
Lodi Lodge No. 256
Frank Oliver Smith, died October 12, 1961
Evergreen Lodge No. 259
John Gore Jordan, died May 18, 1962
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260
Thayer Burrows Thomas, died August 6, 1961
Tuscan Lodge No. 261
Samuel Erle Crutcher, died June 2, 1962
Hesperian Lodge No. 264
Frank Harvey Billiardi, died April 2, 1962
Galt Lodge No. 267
Reginald D. Ward, died August 2, 1961
Durant Lodge No. 268
Ralph Edwin Hoyt, died July 29, 1961
Pasadena Lodge No. 272
Roy R. Jordan, died February 14, 1962
Anchor Lodge No. 273
Raleigh Wesley Neill, died August 16, 1961
Arroyo Lodge No. 274
Ernest John Smith, died June 22, 1962
Oakdale Lodge No. 275
Henry Neubaumer, died May 9, 1962
Southern California Lodge No. 278
Will~am Clarence Kottemann, died October 10, 1961
Leslie Dale Magor, died December 21 , 1961
Hanford Lodge No. 279
Cridner William Robinson, died January 28, 1962
Callayomi Lodge No. 282
Frank Arthur Hoberg, died December 13, 1961
South West Lodge No. 283
Lloyd W. Bates, died September 26 1961
Ward Bliss Keyes, Jr., died Octobe~ 14, 1961
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286
William Vaughn Gahan, died May 1, 1962
Winnedumah Lodge No.287
Joseph Kenneth Maciver, died January 14 1962
Leon Leslie Hawkins, died June 27, 1962 '

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORN!A

Maxwell Lodge No. 288
Irwin Dages, died January 21, 1962
Henry E. Ehlers, died J uly 21, 1961
Santa Paula Lodge No. 291
Ray Comfort Joy, died Octo'b er 15, 1961
Traver Lodge No. 294
Raymond W. Howland, died September 6, 1961
.
Liberty Lodge No. 299
Harry Watkins Mcintyre, died December 31, 1961
Ontario Lodge No. 301
Rhea Hamilton Robinson, died August 21, 1961
John Philip Hamilton, died January 9, 1962
Frank Stewart Hayes, died June 3, 1962
Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302
Everett Clauson Peaslee, died March 23, 1962
Reedley Lodge No. 304
Orville S. Smith, died November 22, 1961
Ellis Frank Scoggins, died J a nuary 18, 1962
Azusa Lodge No. 305
Conrad Leslie Smith, died February 5, 1962
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307
Daniel Edward Shackman, died November 18, 1961
Albert David Hawes, died December 14, 1961
Harold Roland Acteson, died F ebruary 3, 1962
Sisson Lodge No. 310
J ames Joseph Love, died August 18, 1961
Norwalk Lodge No. 315
Dewey Lee Heflin, died J anuary 12, 1962
Arthur Earnest Norman, died February 5, 1962
Eugene Frey Sproul, died March 15, 1962
Fallbrook Lodge No. 317
Victor Barbee Westfall, died October 23, 1961
Lucas Homer Stratton, died December 29, 1961
Emmanuel Lodge No. 318
Nathan E. Askew, died November 14, 1961
Philips S. Persons, died December 23, 1961
Alisa! Lodge No. 321
Hans Niel Hansen, died October 31, 1961
Corona Lodge No. 324
John W. Harbeson, died March 27, 1962
Percy J. Priaulx, died May 21, 1962
Redondo Lodge No. 328
Edward John Reeder, died J uly 11, 1961
Vallee De France Lodge No. 329
Paul Foncel, died March 9, 1962
Edmond Senften, died March 12, 1962
San Pedro Lodge No. 332
Alfred Wilder Hartley, died J anuary 8, 1962
West Gate Lodge No. 335
John W. Lucas, died December 5, 1961
John M. Hayden, died June 15, 1962
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336
James Everett Parish, died June 29, 1962
Carquines Lodge No. 337
William S. Brunning, died July 2, 1961
Charles Gray, died January 6, 1962
Oxnard Lodge No. 341
Issac Martin Poggi, died July 23, 1961
Ernest Owen Allison, died October 30, 1961
Robert Solomon Durr, died May 14, 1962
.
Starr King Lodge No. 344
Homer Clingman Ransom, died October 30, 1961

243

244

PROCEEDINGS OP TH E

Palo Alto Lodge No. 346
Robert Norman Graham Walker, died March 3 1962
Carroll Lynn Black er, died April 2, 1962
'
McKinley Lodge No. 347
J oseph Wallace Garside, died October 30, 1961
Arthur Clarence Rogers, died January 22, 1962
Sa.n Bernardino Lodge No. 348
Porter Valentine Hanf, died May 23, 1962
Cecil Gilbert White, died June 13, 1962
Sequoia Lodge No. 349
W_esley William K ergan, died April 3, 1962
Palestine Lodge No. 351
Samuel B. Young, died July 17, 1961
Thomas J . McDonald, died October 17 1961
William Sprigg Brown, died March 2, '1962
Sunset Lodge No. 352
Christian Nelson Bank, died J uly 26, 1961
Charles Andrew Blair, died April 7, 1962
Arnold Martin Cannon, died May 23, 1962
Pinole Lodge No. 353
Charles Allen Brundige, died November 18 1961
Presidio Lodge No. 354
'
William Gus tav Ackerman, died November 7, 1961
Buena Park Lodge No. 357
Fred Elam Winters, die d September 17, 1961
Golden State Lodge No. 358
Clarence Milton Good. died September 30 1961
San Francisco· Victory Lodge No. 360
'
Alfred Theodore Kirkevold, died January 31 1962
Charity Lodge No. 362
'
Leon Silas Miller, d ied July 14, 1961
Walter Irving Merrill, died December 31, 1961
Berkeley Lodge No. 363
L oren Wight L asell, died February 17, 1962
Albert Milton Hardie, died March 27, 1962
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373
Harry Thomas Robinson, died November 15, 1961
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376
Richard Maxm illian Zemke, died December 16, 1961
Artesia Lodge No. 377
Arleigh Lyle Willis, died July 28, 1961
Mizpah Lodge No. 378
Forrest Arthur Betts, died October 29, 1961
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380
Oscar Dean Wright, died December 17, 1961
Oceanside Lodge No. 381
Roger Dunbar MacPherson, died April 7, 1962
Orosi Lodge No. 383
Henry Romaine Wilson, died July 18, 1961
El Centro Lodge No. 384
Major Samue l Cook, died December 13 1961
Ralph Isaac French , died June 11, 1962'
Dinuba Lodge No. 385
Henry Wilson Ensign, died April 22, 1962
Parnassus Lodge No. 388
George Frederick Haag, died July 13 1961
George Edwin Kimball, died August '20 l!l61
F rank Vignola, d ied October 14. 1961 '
Samuel Miller, died December 22, 1961

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389
Howard Thomas Brunn, died November 10, 1961
J ohn J oseph Gle~ died .November 14, 1961
H oward Miller, d ied A~ril 12, 1_962
Thomas Duncan F ite, died Apnl 19, 1962
Imperial Lodge No. 390
Carl Claud Snider, died October 6, 1961
Arthur Henry Hart, died May 29, 1962
West Lake Lodge No. 392
.
Raymond William Nottke, d ied Dei;ember 26, 1961
Charles Woodford Yerx a, d ied April 27, 1962
University Lodge No. 394 .
Philip Irving Hoke, died July 9, 1961
William Armfield Holt, died May 4, 1962
Turlock Lodge No. 395
Henry Charles Hamilton, died January 6, 1962
Apollo Lodge No. 396
.
2
Waldemar Frances Andersen, died March 16, 196
Rising Light Lodge No. 397
Howard Joseph Heath, died February 21, 1962
Robert Dean Gardner, died April 27, 1962
Burlingame Lodge No. 400
.
8 1961
Andrew Sterling Lamond, died November 1 ,
Humphry Llewellyn Jones, died January 24, 1962
Brawley Lodge No. 402
.
Ralph William Stilgenbaur, d ied October 11, 1961
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403
William Henry Gribble, died February 15, 1962
Moneta Lodge No. 405
John Amos, died June 25, 1962
La Mesa Lodge No. 407
Arnold J olly Benbrook, died September 2 7, 1961
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408
John Buchan, died November 28, 1961
Arlington Lodge No. 41~
Slocum Barker Norton, died August 9, 1961
Herbert Franklyn Hughes, died June 16, 1962
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415
George Robert Hennon, died F ebruary 14, 1962
Lindsay Lodge No. 416
Zina Edwin Page, died qctober 3, 1961
Samuel Tilden Miller, died Decemb er 7, 1961
Clovis Lodge No. 417
Emory Everett Reyburn, died May 20, 1962
Milton Scott McMurty, died May 24, 1962
Elysian Lodge No. 418
John Philip Filbert, died Julr 7, 1961
Herbert Nicholson Waugh, died July 22, 1961
Upland Lodge No. 419
Albert William LaForge, died Janu ary 26, 1962
York Lodge No. 423
J oseph Lewis, died April 15, 1962
Chino Valley No. 427
E lmo Charles Daniels, died December 8, 1961
McCloud Lodge No. 430
Charles Sidney Hogan , died December 22, 1961
Hammonton Lodge No. 433
J ames Robert McFarlane, died March 4, 1962
Fairmont Lodge No. 435
Roy Allen Pence, died July 7, 1961
Tonance Lodge No. 447
.
.
William Harold Stanger, died April 7, 1962

245

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

San Pasqual Lodge No. 452
Emmitt Oliver Graham, died February 25, 1962
Crocker Lodge No. 454
Thomas Madgwick, died February 8, 1962
Robert Hall Turner, died F ebruary 18 1962
'
Golden West Lodge No. 455
John William Mitchell, died June 2 1962
'
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463
Harold P hilbrick, died June 1, 1962
Center Lodge No. 465
Roy Wilson Peterson, died July 21, 1961
Culver City Lodge No. 467
Curtis Jefferson Davis, died March 1 1961
'
Rockridge Lodge No. 468
Fred Phillip Henchell, died November 22 1961
'
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469
Carl H. Seamans, died November 11, 1961
Lodge Maui No. 472
Joseph Hewahewa Kunewa, died September 1, 1961
Blythe Lodge No. 473
Albert Obando Wight, died October 16 1961
'
America Lodge No. 475
P aul Save, died May 25, 1962
Coachella Lodge No. 476
Ernest Marcel Schwab, died August 20, 1961
Temblor Lodge No. 477
Marion Jackson Scott, died September 2 1961
Otho Charles Weddle, died March 13, 1962
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478
F erdinand August Schlafke, died August 15, 1961
Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482
Robert William Ramsay , died December 22 1961
Paul Jonathan Phillips, died J anuary 8, 19B2
Vallejo Lodge No. 487
Summer Ellis Patton, died February 23, 1962
East Bay Lodge No. 489
John Gourlay Dawson, died November 30, 1961
Corcoran Lodge No. 490
Lyle Elmo Weir, Jr., died January 15, 1962
Atascadero Lodge No. 493
Walter William Barratt Clayton, died December 23 1961
'
Capital City Lodge No. 499
Caleb Jefferson Davis, died August 4, 1961
Roosevelt Lodge No. SOD
J oseph Scannell, died J uly 13, 1961
Nils Eric Johnson, died J anuary 28, 1962
Harbor Lodge No. 502
Ludwig Magnus Johnson, died April 24 1962
'
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
Fred Alvin Kelsey, died September 21 1961
Harold Mitchell Sailer, died June 13 1962
'
Cupertino Lodge No. 510
John Montgomery, died March 6, 1962
E arl Raymond Stilwell, died April 9, 1962
Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517
Haro~d William Chaunce, died September 14, 1961
Martm Lausten Bertelsen, Jr. , died November 3, 1961
La Jolla Lodge No. 518
Karl Dennis Kenyon, died March 23, 1962
Catalina Island Lodge No. 524
Carl William Carson, died September 1, 1961

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Bay City Lodge No. 526
Joseph Wheeler Williams, died June 29, 1962
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528
Harry Leroy Ream, died May 2, 1962
Azure Lodge No. 533
Charles Joseph Dr ott, died November 5, 1961
Forest Hill Lodge No. 534
Anthony Clarence Tomen, died March 8, 1962
Ascot Lodge No. 538
Chester Wallace Murphy, died August 15, 1961
Belvedere Lodge No. 539
J oseph A. Swingley, died August 27, 1961
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541
Joseph Schmitz Fairchild, died May 2, 1962
Glendale Lodge No. 544
G eorge Withrow Mishler, died May 12, 1962
Triangle Lodge No. 548
Harry Hamilton Kellogg. died Ma y 25, 1962
J ames Eldon Douglass, died May 26, 1962
Justice Lodge No. 549
H enry Wadsworth Longfellow, died May 21, 1962
Lakeshore Lodge No. 551
William Eugene Yocom, Jr., died November 13, 1961
Educator Lodge No. 554
Henry Loftus Pomeroy, died June 20, 1962
Fairfax Lodge No. 556
Earl Bradfield Reineger, died March 20, 1962
Bert Emmet Hartmann, died May 25, 1962
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559
Otto Cleveland Bee, died September 8, 1961
Edward E. Amalt, died October 11, 1961
Burritt Chester Judd, died January 12, 1962
Pyramid Lodge No. 562
Alvin Salmon, died March 2, 1961
Thomas Elmer Harris, died January 5, 1962
Foothill Lodge No. 564
Benjamin L eopold Miller, died October 15, 1961
West Adams Lodge No. 565
Ralph Daniel Jacobs, died July 31, 1961
Robert Logan Gillies, Jr., died J anuary 13, 1962
Walter William Wilson, died February 1, 1962
James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566
Charles Henry Collard, died May 21, 1962
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569
:Ray Wall Fisher, died April 26, 1962
James Madison Lodge No. 572
Richard Wesley MaJony, died August 17, 1961
William He nry Walter Pauge, died August 26, 1961
S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574
Walter LaHeist Gregory, died January 15, 1962
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576
Ne lson McCracken Fleming, died June 28, 1962
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577
Willard Sears Bolin, died October 30, 1961
Progressive Lodge No. 578
Louis Lane Curtis, died January 14, 1962
Perry Rupert Borden, died May 2, 1962
Rialto Lodge No. 582
Lee Webster Claar, died May 29, 1962
Manchester Lodge No. SSS
Edward Mills, died March 7, 1962

247

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Valley Forge Lodge No. 587
Arthur S. Black, died June 4, 1962
Escalon Lodge No. 591
Archie Truman R oberson, died October 22, 1961
Clarence M. Gadbury, died J anuary 29, 1962
Tujunga Lodge No. 592
Fred Terzo, died December 26, 1961
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595
F red Pierce Grundish, died December 30, 1961
Guardian Lodge No. 596
Norman Theodore Bruber, died May 2, 1962
Lynwood Lodge No. 600
Warren Lewis Daetweiler, died November 27, 1961
Glassell Park Lodge No. 605
Harland Bruce Reynolds, died March 20, 1962
Provident Lodge No. 609
Albert Arthur Ede, died August 22, 1961
Elmhurst Lodge No. 610
John H. Gilmour, died August 9, 1961
Daniel E. Hensley, died March 1, 1962
Chula Vista Lodge No. 626
Howard Lawrence Carrell, died Mar ch 17, 1962
Ingleside Lodge No. 630
Lloyd Earl Wilson, died November 2, 1961
Riverside Lodge No. 635
J ohn Edward Chambers, died April 10, 1962
John Marshall Lodge No. 636
Edwin Frank Lippert, died November 10, 1961
Indian Rock Lodge No. 638
Martin Eugene Ekstrand, died August 27, 1961
Lawrence Franklin Williams, died November 7, 1961
La Cumbre Lodge No. 642
K enneth Clayton B:-adley, died September 18, 1961
Vaughn Wright Sears, died September 28, 1961
Lomita Lodge No. 644
Donald David Hansen, died August 10, 1961
A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. 645
Samu el McNary Law, died September 24, 1961
Damascus Lodge No. 648
Samuel Monroe Davis, died December 23, 1961
Florence Lodge No. 649
James Russell Palmer, died September 28, 1961
Malcolm Leonard Issac, died January 27, 1962
La Brea Lodge No. 650
William Henry Barker, died December 7, 1961
Russell Lawrence Ray, died June 12, 1962
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655
Robert Mallinson White, died December 1, 1961
Citrol Lodge No. 656
Charles Edward Miller, died March 30, 1962
Neal Lindsey Hood, died May 5, 1962
Livingston Lodge No. 658
John Leroy Carson, died March 24, 1962
La Habra Lodge No. 659
Frank J oseph Newman, died December 12, 1961
Kaweah Lodge No. 665
Donald Beaver Smith, died August 8, 1961
John P . Jarman No. 669
Russell Fulton Brownell, died August 4, 1961
Allan Merville Letchworth, died December 10, 1961
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670
William Albert Wood, died May 26, 1962

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

249

Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677
Charles Henry Dodds, died December 30, 1961
Altadena Lodge No. 678
Gus LeRoy Phillips, died September 19, 1961
San Marino Lodge No. 685
L eo Ellsworth Sievert, died May 2, 1962
Albany Lodge No. 686
Charles Emery Cummings, died January 23, 1962
Vista Lodge No. 687
J esse M. Rhodes, died September 25, 1961
John C. Stadden, died September 29, 1961
Charles Crosby Turner, died J anuary 6, 1962
Travelers Lodge No. 692
Frank J ames Christopherson, died September 20, 1961
Palm Springs Lodge No. 693
Maynard George Mead, died June 18, 1962
Meudell Lodge No. 695
James Theron T hompson, died March 4, 1962
Westchester Lodge No. 703
Donald Orlando Bridgewater, died February 23, 1962
Robert Arthur Millhouse, Sr., died March 21, 1962
Seafaring Lodge No. 708
George Lon Bosley, died April 16, 1962
Lorenzo Lodge No. 709
Melvin William McClellan, died January 13, 1962
Yucaipa Lodge No. 726
William Herman McGaughy, died May 5, 1962
West Covina Lodge No. 758
P aul Hillman, died J anuary 19, 1962
El Rancho Lodge No. 759
Elmer Clarence Hughes, Sr., died February 8, 1962
Josiah W. Roller Lodge No. 761
Robert Norman Graham Walker, died March 3, 1962
Heritage Lodge No. 764
J ohn David Bowman, died November 11, 1961
Avenal Lodge No. 772
Corwin Maurice Peart, died September 17, 1961
East Whittier Lodge No. 776
Frank Paul Mechovic, died July 27, 1961
Walter Cornelius Davia French, died April 8, 1962
Yucca Valley Lodge No. 802
Frank J oseph Newman, died December 12, 1961

At 11 :55 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 a.m. Thursday.

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1962
At 9 :30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on. the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The minutes
of the morning session of Wednesday. October 10th, were read and
approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
Your Committee on Grievances reports as follows:
This Committee has considered 52 trial records. This omnibus report will cover 36, and the others will be the subject of special reports.
We again urge Lodges to proceed diligently in all disciplinary matters. We do not advocate rushing a case, but unpleasant business should
not be postponed unduly. Every year a number of trial records come
in during the last month or two prior to the Annual Communication,
some of them having been pending for as much as a year.
We also urge that copies of charges filed be sent at once to the Grand
Secretary, as req uired by our Code, and that form s for procedure be
secured from the Grand Secretary.
In the following trial records all procedure has been substantially
correct, and there is evidence sufficient to support all findings. We find
no miscarriages of justice:
No. 1699~A member of El Cerrito Lodge No. 705, Expelled. November 6, 1961.
No. 1728-A member of Washington Lodge No. 20, Expelled, October
5, 1961.
No. 1729-A member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621 . Expelled, October 4, 1961 .
No. 1731-A Fellowcraft of Howard Lodge No. 37, Expelled, January
2. 1962.
No. 1732-A member of Corinthian Lodge No. 9, Expelled. October 4,
1961 .
No. 1736- A member of Harding Lodge No. 584, Expelled, February
1. 1962.
No. 1737-A member of Madison Lodge No. 23. Expelled, January 2,
1962.
No. 1738-A member of Visalia Lodge No. 128, Expelled. F ebruary 8.
1962.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

251

No. 1739-A member of Riverbank Lodge No. 459, Expelled, March I.
1962.
No. 1740-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561, Expelled,
March 1, 1962.
No. 1741-A member of Van Nuys Lodge No. 450, Expelled, February
2, 1962.
No. 1742-A member of Concord Lodge No. 117, Expelled, March 6,
1962.
No. 1744-A member of Solano Lodge No. 229, Expelled. May 7,
1962.
No. 1745-An Entered Apprentice of Oceanside Lodge No. 381, Expelled, May 7. 1962.
No. 1746-A member of a Lodge in Indiana, Expelled by Riverside
Lodge No. 635, June 7, 1962.
No . 1747-A member of Delano Lodge No. 309, Expelled. June 7,
1962.
No. 1749-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421, Suspended, April
4, 1962.
No. 1750-A member of Temple City Lodge No. 612 , Expelled, May
3, 1962.
No. 1751-A member of Howard Lodge No. 37, Expelled , July 3,
1962.
No. 1752-A member of Manchester Lodge No. 585, Expelled, May 1,
1962.
No. 1753-A member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397, Suspended, November 7, 1961.
No. 1754-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421, Expelled, July 11.
1962.
No. 1755-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421, Suspended. July 11,
1962.
No. 1756-A member of a Lodge in Iowa, Expelled by Consuelo Lodge
No. 325, July 9, 1962.
No. 1757-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561, Expelled,
August 2, 1962.
No. 1758-A member of Bellflower Lodge No. 523 , Expelled, August
7. 1962.
No. 1759-A member of Citro! Lodge No. 656, Expelled, August 7,
1962.
No. 1760-A member of Centennial Lodge No. 729, Expelled, August
6. 1962.
No. 1761-A Fellowcraft of San Leandro Lodge No. 744, Expelled,
August 7, 1962.
No. 1762-A member of La Brea Lodge No. 650, Expelled , August 7,
1962.

252

253

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

No. 1763-A member of Oildale Lodge No. 688, Expelled, November
3, 1961.
No. 1765-A member of Palestine Lodge No. 351, Expelled Aug t
us
'
6, 1962.
SeptemExpelled,
492,
No.
Lodge
Garvanza
of
No. 1766-A member
ber 4, 1962.
No. 1767-A member of Sojourner Lodge No. 607, Expelled, August
Ii, 1962.
No. 1769-A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437, Expelled, August
1. 1962.
No. 1770-A member of Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691. Suspended, April 5, 1962.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That in each of the trial records above-mentioned the
action taken and the result thereof be ratified, affirmed and approved.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross

approved but that the penalty be raised and that the accused be expelled
from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

ALBERT C. WOLLENBERG
BYRON C. MORTON
FRANK B. PEEBLES
WILLIAM B. NEELEY
FOLGER EMERSON
WILLIAM N. BowIE, JR .

Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1726
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member of Fort Crook Lodge No. 575 also was a member of a
Lodge in Mexico. He was suspended by that Lodge in 1961 and under
Section 432, subdivision ( 6), CMC he was automatically declared
suspended in his California Lodge.
In June, 1962 he was restored in the Mexican Grand Lodge and
under the same section he became automatically restored here. No
action by our Grand Lodge is necessary.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1730
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California:
A member of Lodi Lodge No. 256 was convicted in the Superior
Court of the State of California on four counts of forgery and one count
of grand theft. He was tried and convicted of unmasonic conduct in
due form and found guilty. The Trial Commissioners voted to suspend
the member from the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Pursuant to policy of Grand Lodge in cases involving conviction of
a felony. we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the finding of guilt in Trial Record No. 1730 be

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1733
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In Trial Record No. 1733 the accused, a member of Carquinez Lodge
No. 337, was charged as follows :
Specification 1. That he committed battery in 1947. 2. That on January 19, 1950, he committed an assault with intent to commit murder.
3. That on or about May 28, 1954, he did commit theft of government
property. i. That on or about the 19th day of August, 1961, he did
exhibit a deadly weapon in a threatening manner. 5. That on or about
August 19, 1961, he did violate Section 415 of the California Penal Code,
disturbing the peace. 6. That on or about August 24. 1961, he did violate Section 330. l California Penal Code in that he had in his possession
a slot machine.
The accused was interviewed by the Master at which time he admitted his guilt to two of the specifications. The Master after full i~­
vestigation of all charges found the accused guilty of three of the. specifications and unmasonic conduct and fixed the penalty at suspensmn.
Your Committee, after having considered all of the evidence in the
record . is of the opinion that the penalty should be raised to expulsion.
We. therefore, offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED. that the finding of the Master in Trial Record No.
1733 be approved but that the penalty be raised and that the accused
be expelled from alf the ·r ights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted .

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1734
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member of All States Lodge No. 593 was expelled by the Lodge
after proper procedure on charge of the commission of a morals offense
of which he had been convicted in the state courts. He did not enter any
plea in the Lodge and the Master made sufficient investigation to sup~
port the finding of guilt and the penalty of expulsion.
The accused has filed a letter which he calls an appeal and also a
petition for restoration. The appeal was filed too late but we have considered the file and find no errors.
Although a Lodge ,c annot restore a suspended member until the
suspension has been affirmed by Grand Lodge, it would appear that
Grand Lodge has the inherent power to affirm an expulsion and forthwith grant a petition for restoration which has been properly filed and
noticed, such hasty action should be taken in rare cases only. In this
case the Lodge is opposed to res toration of its former member.
We offer the following resolution:

254

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

. R~SOLVED, that the finding of guilt and the penalty of expulsion
m Tnal Record No. 1734 be ratified. affirmed and approved and the
petition for restoration be denied.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1735

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The accused in Trial Record No. 1735 was a member of North Hollywood Lodge No. 542. The specification on which the accused was tried
was based on the conviction of the accused in the Municipal Court of
a misdemeanor offense.
Nine commissioners were duly elected and the trial was held with
all nine commissioners present and participating. The transcript of all
the testimony in the criminal case was introduced in evidence before the
com missioners.
On the issue of guilt the vote of the commissioners was "guilty-I,"
"not guilty-8" and on the issue of unmasonic conduct the verdict was
unanimous "not guilty."
At the opening of the trial counsel for the accused after interrogation of two of the commissioners objected to their qualifications to serve.
The objections were based on the claim that they were prejudiced in
favor of the accused. The Trial Master over-ruled the objections.
It has been urged to this Committee that the commissioners to whom
objection was made should have been disqualified and that findings of
the commissioners should be reversed and the matter retried.
Although it may be conceded that there is a sound basis for disagreement as to whether the objections should have been granted or
denied by the Trial Master by reason of the unanimous decision of the
nine commissioners we have determined that their decision should be
affirmed and we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the finding of "not guilty" by the Trial Commission in Trial Record No. 1735 be affirmed.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORD NO. 1764
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In Trial Record No. 1764 the accused, a member of West Gate Lodge
No. 335. was under amended charges, charged under the following specifications:
1. That as an insurance agent he wilfully and falsely failed to cover
the accuser with Workmen's Compensation Insurance for which he
received payment of premium and retained said payment for his own use.
As a result thereof the accuser was uninsured on January 6, 1958. when
his employee was injured in the course of his employment. This caused
a financial loss in the sum of $7,500.00 to the accuser.
2. That on or about October, 1960, the accused filed a petition in
bankruptcy for which he included in his list of unsecured creditors the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

255

accuser's claim in the amount of $7.500.00 which he stated arose from
his failure to secure an insurance contract for the accuser.
3. That during the year 1959 the accused forged the name of a cosigner on a personal note.
4. That during the year 1961 the accused did without cause or justification instigate an investigation of the accuser by the Internal Revenue
Department.
A trial was held before commissioners in which both the accused
and accuser were represented by competent counsel. They found the
accused guilty on ,specifications 1 and 2 and not guilty on specifications
3 and 4 and guilty of unmasonic conduct with the penalty fixed at
suspension.
The evidence presented at the trial shows that the accuser filed a
civil action against the accused for failure to cover him with Workmen's
Compensation Insurance and obtained a judgment in the amount of
$7.500.00 based principally on the accused's negligence.
This entire record indicates that all the facts in specifications 1 - 4
arose out of a business dispute between an insurance broker and one of
his clients. As stated in Section 684 ( d) CMC. "To warrant an appeal
to Masonic censure, the case must involve a willful and deliberate disregard of moral and Masonic duty and an intention knowingly and
wilfully to cheat and defraud a Brother."
A thorough examination of the Trial Record fails to reveal any evidence of fraud on the part of the accused. The money which he received
was applied to other insurance policies which he obtained for the accused.
None was retained for his own personal gain or benefit.
Nor does the record reflect any illegalit'Y in the filing of the bank~
ruptcy petition which the accused testified he did on the advice of his
counsel.
Your Committee is of the opinion that there is not sufficient evidence
in the record to support a finding of guilty on specificatons 1 and 2 and
of unmasonic conduct.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the finding of guilty of the Trial Commission in
Trial Record No. 1764 on Specifications 1 and 2 and of unmasonic
conduct be reversed and that a finding of not guilty be substituted therefor.
Adopted .
TRIAL RECORD NO. 1768
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
This is an appeal by the accuser. a member of Hollywood Lodge
No. 355, from verdicts finding the accused not guilty of three separate
spedfications. in each of which he was charged with having slandered
the accuser.
Although the accused is a Member of Melrose Lodge No. 602, the

256

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

case was tried by Van Nuys Lodge No. 450 by direction of the Grand
Master. The evidence was conflicting, and contains a denial of all specifications by the accused.
Your Committee on Grievances has carefully examined the record.
We find that the procedure is correct in every respect. and that the evidence is sufficient to support the findings of the Commissioners. We.
therefore. off er the following resolution:
RESOLVED. that the finding of not guilty of each specification in
Trial Record No. 1768 be affirmed.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1771

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
The accused in Trial Record No. 1771 is a member of Natoma Lodge
No. 64. The onginal charge contained five specifications of which two
were of doubtful validity as constituting only civil disputes.
Approximately seven and one-half months after the five charges
were presented a further charge based on a plea of guilty to petty theft
entered by accused in a case in the Municipal Court (Santa ClaraC u per ti no Judicial District) for which he was fined.
The accused pleaded "not guilty" to all six specifications. Nine
trial commissioners were elected but only six were present for the trial.
As to the first five specifications no evidence was presented by the
accuser. As to number six, the only evidence was the petty theft plea.
The accused presented a sworn written statement which detailed his
defense of each specification.
As to each specification l to 5 inclusive, the verdict was unanimous,
"not guilty." On specification No. 6, on the issue of guilt. the vote was
unanimous, "guilty," and on the issue of unmasonic conduct the vote
was, "guilty" 5, "not guilty" I. The vote on the issue of "expulsion"
was "aye" l, "no" 5.
The first vote on the issue of suspension was "aye" 2, "no" 4. The
Trial Master noted that the vote lacked a majority of the nine elected
commissioners and called for a second ballot on "suspension" which
resulted in "aye" 5, "no" l.
It is to be noted that the criminal charge originally filed against
the accused (Specification No. 6) was forgery based on a check for
$87.00 payable to cash and purportedly signed by the accused as
maker. H e at all times denied the offense but on the advice of his
attorney pleaded guilty to PETTY THEFT, a misdemeanor.
There has been presented to the Grievance Committee documentary
evidence by an expert witness on questioned documents, whose opinion
is that the defendent did not sign the check previously referred to nor
did he write any part of it. We have also received an affidavit by the
merchant who accepted the alleged forged check which recites that it
was presented to him by the estranged wife of the accused.
We would question the action of the commissioners in taking a

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

257

second ballot on the issue of "suspension" after the first ballot was 2
"aye" and 4 "no" ( 72 l CMC) but in view of our other fin dings we
need not rule on this point.
We are of the opinion that the trial record in itself would require a
reversal and re-trial but by reason of the documentary evidence presented on the appeal and without detailing all the evidence we have
unanimously det ermined that the accused never committed the F ORGERY on which the plea of guilty of PETTY THEFT was made and
that he was not guilty of PETTY THEFT to which his attorney advised
a guilty plea.
.
.
It is our conclusion tha t the Lodge should not be required to re-try
the matter and that the decision of the commissioners on specifications
I, 2. 3, 4 and 5 be affirmed: their decision as to specification 6 be reversed and the charge dismissed ( 761 CMC).
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED. that the decision of the Trial Commissioners on
specifications 1, 2. 3. 4 and 5 be affirmed; that the decision on specification 6 be reversed and the specification dismissed.
Adopted .

ADDITIONAL TRIAL RECORDS
To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F . 6 A. M. of California:
The following special reports of the Committee on Grievances have
been read at this Communication and the originals are on file with the
Grand Secretary. Those directly interested will receive copies. It seems
unnecessary to print .these reports in the Proceedings of Grand Lodge :
No. 1316-Former member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Restoration
denied.
No. 1554- Member of Mendocino Lodge No. 179. C ontinued to 1963
Communication.
No. 1630-Former member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Restoration
denied.
No. 1636-Former member of Rising Light Lodge No . 397. Restoration denied.
No. 1651 - Former member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621. R estoration denied .
No. 1652-Former member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621. Restoration denied.
No. 1743- Member of Martinez Lodge No. 41. Penalty raised to
expulsion.
.
No. 1748-Member of Mineral King Lodge No. 720. Penalty raised to
suspension.
We. therefore, offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the reports in the trial records above mentioned
be not printed in the published Proceedings of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

258

259

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE

DECISION No . 2
The Grand Master ruled that "capital gains" distributed by certain
mutual investment trusts and corporations, whose securities are held as
an investment of life membership funds are not "income" under the
meaning of that word as used in Section 404. California Masonic Code.
and that hence such capital gains are not to be included as revenue in
the calculation of the amount available for "refreshment and fraterna l
intercourse" within the purview of Section 412, California Masonic
Code.
He further ruled that distribution by such investment trusts or corporations of "ordinary income" may be included in the calculations
mentioned in Sections 404 and 412, California Masonic Code.
We concur with the conclusions so reached by the Grand Master
and move approval thereof.
Adopted unanimously.

(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee expresses its gratitude to the Grand Master for his
consideration in submitting to this Committee in ample time for our study
the decisions made by him during the course of the year. We would
hope that his practice in that respect may be adopted by his successors
in office. We commend the practice to them.
We report on the Grand Master's decisions as follows:
DEc1s10N No. 1
The decision holds that the provisions of Section 403 of the California Masonic Code apply to Lodge Temple Associations and to
Masonic Temple Associations. but that no Lodge. Lodge Temple Association or Masonic Temple Association is required to submit to the
Investment Advisor used by Grand Lodge, proposed investments in
savings accounts in, and investment certificates and shares issued by
building and loan and savings and loan associations.
We concur with the Grand Master and move approval of the decision.
The Grand Master declared the clarification of Section 403 CMC
an emergent matter and the following was submitted:
By reason of the interpretation by the Grand Master in his Decision
No. 1, and the concurrence of your Committee therein. and in order to
clarify Section 403 of the California Masonic Code, your Committee
offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the next to last paragraph of Section 403, California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Should a Lodge, Lodge Temple Association or Masonic Temple
Association elect to invest in funds under the provisions of Sections 2,
or 3 (a), or 3 ( b) hereof. it shall confer and counsel as to any such
proposed or contemplated investments with the professional Investment
Advisor used by Grand Lodge, whose fees will be paid by Grand Lodge."
We move the adoption of the resolution and urge a yes vote.
Adopted unanimously.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
OSCAR LAWLER
WAKEFIELD TAYLOR
HENRY

c. CLAUSEN

HOWARD LANGWORTHY
Loms C. DRAPEAU
LEO E. ANDERSON
JoE L SHELL
CHARLES J.
RIGHT

w

DEcis10N No. 3
In his Decision No. 3, the Grand Master held that:
" ... cornerstone laying and dedication ceremonies for public school
buildings or other exclusively public buildings may be conducted on
Sunday, if in the discretion of the Grand Master, the same may be done
without infringing the spirit of Masonry."
We concur with the Grand Master in his decision and move its
approval.
Adopted unanimously.
DECISION No. 4

The Grand Master held that Sec. 334-c, CMC. does not prohibit the
listing of the business or occupation, business address and telephone
number of members in a Lodge roster. We concur with the Grand
Master.
The mere possibility that such a roster may be used for commercial
exploitation does not affect the legality of such a roster.
We move approval of the decision.
Adopted unanimously.
DECISION No. 5
The Grand Master ruled that where a deceased brother died in good
standing, having had a long and distinguished career in Masonry, and
who had willed his body to a university for medical research, a proper
request having been made for burial with Masonic honors, such request
should be granted. regardless of the disposition of the brother's remains
and of the fact that his remains may not be present at the funeral service.
We concur with the decision, and move its approval.
Adopted unanimously.
Past Grand Master John R. Moore. Chairman of the Committee on
Jurisprudence, called attention to the fact that by virtue of approval of

260

PROC EEDINGS O P THE

D ecision No. 5 there resu lted a conflict between that decision a nd S
ection 605-h . CMC.
e
Lod
Grand
and
The Grand Master declared the matter emergent
g
approved the declaration by unanimous consent.
Past Grand Master Moore presented the following resolution :
RESOLVED: That Section 605-h . CMC, be repealed.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
DEc1s10N N o. 6
The Grand M aster, in his Decision No. 6, ruled that the establishment of a Royal Ark M a riner Lodge in the Jurisdiction of California b
0 Cou~cil of Allied Masonic Degrees ( attached to the Grand Councii
of ~!lied Degrees of the United States of America) is prohibited b
Y
Section 332.1 of the California Masonic Code.
Section 332.l C.M.C. provides:
"A Mason residing within this jurisdiction shall not be, become or
re~am a member o f any organization , by whatever name or character.
wh ich requ.1res_ Mas~nc affiliation as a condition to members hip unless
such organization existed in the jurisdiction of California on September
27, 1957."
We concur with the Grand Master and move approval of this decision.
Adopted unanimously.
DEc 1s10N No. 7
The circumstances which resulted in this decision were these :
lif.e me~.ber of a ~dge. against whom no charges were pending.
a pplied m wntmg for withdrawal of membership. which applica tion was
read to the Lodge a t a stated meeting. The Secretary of the Lodge. in a
Jette~ t~ the brother acknowledged the request for withdrawal. but issued
no d1m1t. After a lapse of six years the brother requested reinstatement.
1:'he Grand M aster ruled that the brother's membership was never
termmated, that no reinstatement proceedin gs were required and that
the _L odge was obligated to Grand Lodge for the payment of a~crued per
capita taxes on the member.
We concur with the Grand Master in his conclusions and move
approval of the decision
Adopted unanimously.

fl:

DEc1s10N No. 8
The Grand M aster ruled that the establishment of a T a bernacle of
Holy ~o?'al Arch Knight Templar Priests in the Jurisdiction of California
is proh1b1ted by Section 332. l of the C alifornia Masonic Code.
We have quoted that section of the Code in our report on Decision
N o. 6. The section quoted fully supports the Grand Master's Decision
No. 8 and your Committee moves the approval thereof.
Adopted unanimously.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

261

EDICT ON ORDER OF Sc10Ts

Y our C omm ittee on Jurisprudence reports on the edict issued by the
Grand Mas ter relating to M asons who were members of Culver-Palms
Pyramid No. 57. Order of Sciots, as follows:
On M a rch 29. 1962, the Grand Master issued an edict reading as
follows :
"I hereby interdict membership in the Culver City-Palms P yramid
of S ciots by a ll Mason s within or under the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge o f California. This means that all such M asons must sever and
te rm inate membership in said Pyramid of Sciots and that no such Mason
may hereafter become a member thereof."
The fa cts disclosed in the Grand Master' s report proved to his satisfaction that the conduct at a " Hobo Dinner" sponsored by Culver-Palms
Pyramid No. 57, O rder of Sciots was unmasonic and unethical and
tended toward opprobrium upon Freemasonry. We agree with the
Grand Master. The edict was a valid exercise o f his powers under 134
California Masonic Code .
W e move that the edict quoted above be approved and adopted as an
edict of Grand Lodge and urge an affirmative vote.
Adopted.
R ECOMMENDATION

5

Respecting the Grand Master's Recommendation No. 5 relating
to dimit and recommendatory certificate procedure. we report as follows:
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLVf.D: That Section 447 CMC . first paragraph, be amended
to read a s follows:
A member of a Lodge in good standing. agai nst whom no charges
are pending, and whose dues are paid. may withdraw therefrom a t any
time by giving notice in writing of his intention so to do at a stated meetng. Upon such notice. the Master of the Lodge shall order the Secretary
to issue a dimit forth with in the for m provided as evidence of such withdrawal; fu rther
That Section 44 7, CMC. be amended by deleting therefrom the fo urth
paragraph which reads, " The provisions of this section shall in no way
deprive the demitting member of the benefits of this section as it relates
to a recommendator y certifica te.": further
That the sixth paragraph of Section 44 7, CMC. be amended by
deleting therefrom the last sentence which reads. "a multiple member
thus withdrawing shall not be entitled to a recommendatory certificate
provided for in Section 4 52."; further
Tha t Section 152 . CMC. Form of Recommendatory Certificate. be
deleted fro m the CMC; further
That the following decisions recorded in CMC be deleted : Sections
417-g. 417-h. 417-1, 152-a and 557-h ; furth er
That Section 359. CMC By-Laws, continued (Withdrawal from

262

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

members hip) Section 4, be amended by deleting therefrom , "but no
recomme ndatory certificate s hall be issued to him unless ordered by the
Lodge."; further
That Section 378_. CMC: Status of ~embers , be amended by deleting
therefrom that port10n which reads, which certificate shall have the
same effect as the regular recomme ndatory certificate of withdraw al
issued by an existing Lodge," and inserting in place thereof the following: .. which certificate shall have the same effect as a <limit issued by
an existing Lodge."
We move adoption of the resolutio n and recomen d a yes vote.
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their concurrence in the recomme ndation.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

PHYSICA L QUALIFIC ATIONS

6
ence:
The Committ ee on Jurisprud
Your Committ ee reports on the Grand Master's Recomm endation
No. 6 relating to members of committees and boards, as follows:
We agree with the Grand Ma ster tha t it is implicit in our law that
members of all boards a nd committe es of Grand Lodge must be members
of Grand Lodge and in order to spell this out in direct language we
present the following:
RESOL VED: That Section 191 , CMC, be amended by adding at
the end thereof the following:
The members of all boards and committe es of Grand Lodge shall
be members of Grand Lodge.
We move the adoption of the resolutio n and recomme nd a yes vote.
The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their concurrence in the recomme ndation .
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
RECOMM ENDATIO N

W AIYER OP JURISDIC TION

( 3)

Your Committ ee on Jurisprud ence reports on Resolution No. 3 by
Brothers Prior and Kunz, as follows:
RESOL VED : That Sec. 518 CMC be amended by inserting at the
end thereof the following words:
and waiver of jurisdiction.
RESOL VED FURTH ER: That Sec. 524 CMC be amended as
follows:
In the second sentence between the words "request " and " a nd"
insert the following words:
report it to the Lodge at the next stated meeting
We move adoption of the resolution and recomme nd a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

263

( 5)
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
Your C ommittee reports on Resolutio n No. 5 by Brothers Pitman,
Hudson et al relating to physical qualifications. as follows:
This is a n example of shotgun resolutio n .
In refusing to present this resolutio n we raise and rely upon a point
of order, as follows:
In addition to numerou s Regula tions this resolutio n would wipe out
and destroy Landmar k Eighteen th- "The qualifica tion of candidat es
for initiation ."
Landmar k Twenty- fifth reads:
"The last and crowning la ndmark of all is, that these landmark s can
.
never be changed ." (Page 343 CMC.)
,
Conshtu:
Our
rejected.
be
n
resolutio
the
nd
recomme
,
We, therefore
tion Sec. 16 CMC requires, ..5trict adherenc e to the Ancient Landmar ks.
The Committ ees on Policy and General Purposes and on Ritual indicated their concurre nce.
The Grand Master declared the resolutio n contrary to the landmark s
of Masonry and it was declared rejected.
GRAND LoDGE WEEK COMMIT TEE

( 13)
reports on Resolutio n No. 13 by
ence
Jurisprud
on
ee
Committ
Your
follows:
as
orf.
Beckend
Brother
RESOL V.ED : That Sec. 192 CMC be amended , as follows:
Insert in line five between the words "Charter s" and "to" the following words:
on Grand Lodge Week Activitie s
In line seven strike the words:
on Grand Lodge W eek A ctivities
will be to increase the number of members of said Commitresult
The
tee from seven to eleven. The resolution as presente d by Brother Beckendorf suggests an increase to nine or eleven- an indefinit e number. We
think the number should be definite- hence eleven.
We move adoption of the resolutio n and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
TRIAL PROCED URE-FOR MS

(] 7)
e:
The Committ ee on Juri sprudenc
RESOL VED :
A. That Section 689 Californi a Masonic Code be amended to read
as follows :
Sec. 689. STAND ARDIZE D FORMS . Standard ized forms. maintained by the Grand Secretar y under the authority of Section 150-18t h,

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

shall be used for all Masonic penal proceedings under Article IV of
Part Ill of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge.
B. That California Masonic Code Sections 695. 698. 703. 704. 705.
708. 716, 717, 722 , 725 . 728 , 736. 737 and 738 be repealed.
C. That CMC Section 692.I be amended to read as follows:
Procedure on receipt of charges. Upon the presentation of such
charges. the M aster shall carefully examine the charge and specifications.
and, if they a re evidently frivolous, or if the act or acts with which the
accused is charged is or are clearly such as do not constitute a Masonic
offense. he may refuse to entertain them. But, should it appear otherwise.
and it is known to him that the accuser is a Master Mason in good standing . he shall cause true copies of such charge and specifications to be
made. shall cause one of such copies to be forwarded to the Grand
Secretary, and cause to be served upon the accused one of said true
copies, together with a notice to the accused that such charge has been
filed and that the accused may. within either ten or thirty days after the
service on accused of this notice, file with the Secretary of the Lodge
a statement in writing that accused is not guilty of the charge. or a statement in writing that the accused is guilty of the charge. and that if accused s hall fail within said period of either ten or thirty days. whichever
period is set out in the notice, to file a statement in writing as required
as a plea of either guilty or not guilty, further proceedings will be taken
against accused wi thout further notice to him. and that on a plea of
guilty the penalty may be fixed by the Trial Master without further
notice to accused.
D. Th.:it CMC Section 692.2 be amended to read as follows:
TIME AND MANNER OF SERVI CE

The time a llowed for filing a written statement by the accused as
provided in Section 692.1 of this code and which shall be inserted in the
notice given to the accused shall be ten days if the notice is to be served
and is actually served within the Jurisdiction of the Lodge or within the
county in which the Lodge is located: otherwise said time shall be thirty
days. Service may be made personally by the Tiler or some other member of the Lodge authorized by the Master for that purpose, or said
notice s hall be left at his ordinary residence or place of business, or
may be forwa rded to his address by the Secretary, by ordinary mail.
E. That CMC Section 692.3 be amended by striking the words at
the end of the section reading as follows : " .... in form similar to that
provided for service of summons by Section 708 of this Code."
F. That Section 692.4 be amended as foll ows: Add at the end thereof the following paragraph:
Upon the filing by accused of a written plea of guilty to the charge
the Trial Master may make a finding of guilt without further investigation, but may make any such investigation as he feels necessary and
shall. in his report to the Lodge, determine the penalty.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

265

G. That Section 727 CMC be amended to read as follows :
Section 727. Disposition of Trial Papers. The Lodge shall keep in
its archives the original record of proceedings before the Commission
signed by the Commissioners who acted. the original papers and minutes
connected therewith as described in Sec. 726. a nd the original reporter's
transcript if a shorthand reporter was used. The transcript intended for
Grand Lodge is a copy of the foregoing.
As soon as possible a fter the next Stated Meeting, the Secretary
shall add to the transcript il certified copy of the minutes relating to the
announcement of the result of the trial and a copy of the reporter's
transcript. if any. and shall send the whole in one package to the Grand
Secretary.
We move adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
The Committee on Grievances indicated their concurrence in the
recommendation.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
TRIAL PROCEDURE-

COUNSEL

(18)
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLVED . that Section 709 Masonic Code be amended by deleting the words "and assistant" in line 2 and substituting therefor the
words " to assist." and by adding at the end of said section the following :
Such counsel need not be an attorney at law. He may appear and
represent the accused also if the latter cannot be present at the trial. The
summons served on the accused shall give notice of the provisions of
this section.
The Trial Master may have any Master Mason as his counsel to be
present and, at his request. to advise him in presiding at the trial.
We move adoption of the resolution as revised and recommend a
yes vote.
The Committee on Grievances indicated their concurrence in the
recommendation.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
TRIAL PROCEDURE-

ADDITIONAL EVIDEN CE AND ARGUMENTS

(19)
The Committee on /urisprudence:
RESOLVED. that Section 743, California Masonic Code, be
amended to read as follows :
Additional Evidence and Arguments. If either the accused or accuser desires to have considered on the appeal any evidence which could
not have been produced at the trial or investigation in the Lodge. a statement in writing of the accused or accuser setting forth the substance of
such evidence and explaining why it was not produced at the trial or
investigation in the Lodge may be filed with the Grand Secretary not

266

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

later than sixty days prior to the commencement of the next Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge. and any arguments or representations
which either accused or accuser. or any other Mason desires to present
must be in writing and filed with the Grand Secretary not later than
sixty days prior to the commencement of the next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
That Section 761, Masonic Code. be amended to strike the words.
"such additional evidence in writing" and substitute the words. "such
statements or arguments in writing."
We move adoption of the resolution as revised and recommend a
yes vote.
The Committee on Grievances indicated their concurrence in the
recommendation.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
At 12 :00 noon Grand Lodge was called off until l : 30 p.m.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

267

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thurs day, October 11, 1962
At I :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.}
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
TEXTBOOKS FOR THE PHILIPPINES

That portion of the report of the Committee on Public Schools, relative to the letter addressed to our Grand Master from the Grand Master
of the Philippines, has been referred to the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes.
The writer states that during the last war the Japanese systematically
destroyed all textbooks in the English language and that despite the
efforts of many Americans to replace them the situation has never been
substantially alleviated. resu lting in such a shortage that. on the average, three children are forced to use one textbook.
He asks that the Lodges of California undertake the collection of
used textbooks and states that arrangements have been made with the
United States Navy for their transportation, free of charge.
The Committee on Public Schools feels. as does the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes, that this request is challenging and
worthy. and that every effort be made to assist our sister Jurisdiction in
this endeavor.
We, therefore, recommend that the Committee on Public Schools be
encouraged to activate the program among the several constituent Lodges
of the Jurisdiction and that the Lodges be urged to cooperate.
We recommend the adoption of this report and a yes vote.
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
LESLIE E. WooD
CHESTER H. WARLOW
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN
OTTO ROHWER
GEORGE H. HIMES
ELLSWORTH MEYER
ARTHUR PAULSEN
ELBERT
DAVIS
JOHN D. HOLLAND

w.

268

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

CANDIDA TES' INSTRUC TION

We agree that there is a conflict between the duties of Inspecto r and
of Secretary . The Inspecto r is represen tative of Grand Lodge in his
District. Under Section 161 of the Californ ia Masonic Code, he must
examin.e th.e books and records of the Lodge , kept by the Secretar y, to
determin e 1£ the manner of transacti ng the business of the Lodge and
of making returns conform to our laws, and he must report to the Grand
Master any violation s of law. As Secretary , he must obey the will and
pleasure of the Worship ful Master, but as Inspecto r he must inspect
the work and correct the same and report the working condition of the
Lodge to the Grand Lecturer . and he may even require the Master to
convene his Lodge for inspectio n. We do not believe the performa nce
of all these duties can be properly placed in the sam e hands.
We, therefore . approve the policy repor ted by the Grand Lecturer
as to this matter and move adoption of this report.
Adopted .

The Committ ee on Policg and General Purposes :
There has been referred to your Committ ee on Policy and General
Purposes the portion of the Grand Lecturer 's Report in which he reports
to Grand Lodge that, with the assistanc e of the other members of the
Committ ee on Ritual. he has formulat ed and is putting into operatio n a
system of instructio n and educatio n of candidat es through the coaches
of the constitue nt Lodges, including the use of a handboo k for coaches
and for the candidat es which has been prepared by the Grand Lecturer .
One of the members of the Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes has reviewed the material included in the handboo k and your
Committ ee has consider ed the proposed system of instructio n. We
highly commend the Grand Lecturer and the members of the Committee on Ritual for the excellent work which has gone into the preparation of this material.
We thorough ly agree with the Grand Lecturer that if Masonic
educatio n is to be effective . it mus t commenc e upon the candidat e level
and during the time w hen the candidat e is receiving his degrees and
is most recepti ve to instructio n.
We , therefore , recomme nd the approval of this portion of the Report
of the Grand Lecturer and move the adoption of this report.
The Committ ee on Finance indicated their concurre nce in the recommend ation.
Adopted .
D1v1s10N OF MONITOR
The Committ ee on Policg and General Purposes:
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes has consider ed
that portion of the Grand Lecturer 's Report proposin g . in connecti on
with his plan for candidat e educatio n, that there be a division of the
Monitor by degrees and the use of it after each degree by the candidat e
and his coach in that degree.
We approve this recomme ndation of the Grand Lecturer that he
be authorize d to make a division of the Monitor and also his suggesti on
to this Committ ee that in so dividing the Monitor all all usions to esoteric
work be removed.
We move the adoption of this report.
Adopted .
INSPECTO RS' RESPONS IBILITIES

The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been referred to your Committ ee on Policy and General
Purposes that portion of the Report of the Grand Lecturer in which he
s tates that he has adopted the policy in qualifyin g Inspecto rs that no
Inspecto r under his supervisi on may also act as Secretar y of a Lodge
within his District. His reasonin g is that the duties of Inspecto r and the
duties of Secretar y are so incompa tible and conflicting that they should
not be vested in the same person.

269

SPECIAL CoMMIT TEE ON OLD MASONIC HALL AT L os ANGELES
The Committ ee on Policg and General Purposes:
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes has had ref erred
to it that portion of the Grand Master's Report wherein he recomme nds
that the Special Committ ee, designat ed as the Old Masonic Hall in
Los Angeles Committ ee. be recogniz ed as a regular Special Committ ee
in the same manner as the Columbi a Temple Committ ee and that it be a
continuin g committe e.
We recogniz~ that if this historic temple is to be properly maintained as a monume nt to Freemas onry in Californ ia that the continua nce
of this Committ ee is necessar y and proper for its administ ration.
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes concurs in the
recomme ndation of the Grand Master and moves its adoption .
The Committ ees on Jurisprud ence and on Finance indica ted their
concurre nce in the recomme ndation.
Adopted .
COLUMB IA TEMPLE MUSEUM

The Committ ee on Policg and General Purposes:
In his reference to the Columbi a Masonic Temple, the Grand Master
has reported that the Universi ty of the Pacific has presente d a plan
whereby the University would use the ground floor of the Temple as a
Museum . featuring historical items dealing with early Californi a History.
A curator would be provided for the Museum and his services would
make it possible for visitors to view the Lodge Hall. which privilege is
not now available at all times.
This proposal would require consider ation by the Universi ty, the
Grand Lodge and the approval of the proper division of the State of
Californ ia as lessor.

270

271

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In the absence of any concrete plan of operation being placed before
Grand Lodge and the fact that approval from the State of California
must be obtained, the Grand Master has recommended that the matter
be referred to the incoming Grand Master. with power to act, subject
to approval of the Chairmen of the Committees on Jurisprudence. Policy
and General Purposes and Finance to the extent that the functions of
their committees are involved.
Your Committee concurs in the recommendation of the Grand
Master and moves its adoption.
The Committees on Jurisprudence and on Finance indicated their
concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted.

date. The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that
the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Masonic Information be referred to the incoming Grand Master for further study.
We move the adoption of this report and the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a yes vote.
The Committee on Finance indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted.

CEMETERY AT JAMESTOWN

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committee on Masonic Cemeteries has recommended that the
Grand Lodge acquire title to a cemetery at Jamestown. approximately
three miles from Sonora. No information is given except that title is said
to have been in St. James Lodge No. 54 which surrendered its charter
on February 20. 1875. It is stated that no burials have been made in this
cemetery since 1876 and it is so overgrown that it is impossible to ascertain how many graves are there or the condition of headstones.
In the absence of adequate information as to what may be involved
in acquiring or clearing title. and thereafter maintaining the cemetery.
your Committee cannot make a recommendation what the policy should
be. We. therefore. move that the matter of the cemetery at Jamestown
be referred to the Committee on Masonic Cemeteries for further investigation and report.
The Committee on Finance indicated their concurrence in the rec ommendation.
Adopted.
MA SONIC IN FOR MATION GUIDE

Th e Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Report of the Committee on M asonic Information ha s been referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes. The report
refers to a manual, or guide, to constituent Lodges on how to write a
news release of their activities. The Manual has not yet been completed
in its final proposed form and. therefore. your Committee is not in a
position to report on its effect on Grand Lodge policy. However. such a
manual concerns matters which may well involve Grand Lodge policy
to a substantial degree. We. therefore, believe that when completed
it should be referred to the incoming Grand Master for study. Until such
a study has been made, we believe no additional appropriation ·s hould
be made covering publication costs.
The Committee on Masonic Information should be commended for
the great amount of work which obviously has gone into this project to

O[SPLAY NATIONAL EMBLEM

( 14)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes. to which was referred Resolution No. 14. reports as follows:
The Resolution would require the display of the National Colors
from an appropriate flagstaff. on top or in front of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple. on every day of the year between the hours
of sunrise and sunset. except in inclement weather.
The preliminary paragraphs of the Resolution recite the traditional
devotion of Masons to patriotism and love of country and call attention
to the fact that our Temple is dedicated to those members of our Craft
who gave their lives in defense of their country.
As required· by California Masonic Code 554w. the Flag of our
Country is displayed at all Communications of Grand Lodge and at all
meetings of our Lodges; on frequent occasions it is formally presented at
the Altar of the Lodge by the Marshal. There is no question but that
the Fraternity by every appropriate means urges upon and inculcates
in its members devotion to the United States of America. It does not
seem to this Committee. however. that flying the Flag on or in front of
the California Masonic M emorial T emple. not only when the Grand
Lodge offices are open- as is done at the present time, but also on Saturdays. Sundays and holidays .. from sunrise to sunset," will significantly
impress our members or the public at large with any additional reverence
for the Colors or devotion to patriotism. Moreover. it is obvious that it
would be necessary to employ an additional building custodian to fully
perform the duty of literal compliance with the Resolution. which would
require th e Flag to be flo wn as early as sunrise every morning. to remain there until sunset of each evening "on every day of the year."
We recommend that Resolution No. 14 be not adopted or approved.
The Committee on Finance indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

GRA ND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

272

PRO CEE DING S OP THE

RT S
CO MB INE D CO MM ITT EE RE PO
Com mun icat ion are

s dur ing the
(Ite ms reported on at diffe rent time
con soli date d to facilitate refe renc e.)
REC OMM END ATIO N I

Pur~:Jses:
The Com mitt ee on Pol icy and General ed that Sec tion 520 of the Cal iend
mm
The Gra nd Mas ter has reco
ial
d to perm it Lod ges in the terr itor
fornia Mas onic Cod e be ame nde
ive
rece
to
ted
loca
are
nav al facilties
juri sdic tion s of whi ch mili tary or
or
orm ed mem bers of such mili tary
unif
from
rees
deg
the
peti tion s for
of
od
peri
a
ber has been ther eat for
nav al facility prov idin g such mem
six months.
ber of yea rs that the hom e por t
Our Cod e has prov ided for a num
y shall be con side red the resi den ce
of a vessel of the Uni ted Stat es Nav
od
atta che d to such vess el for a peri
of any of its crew who hav e been
a
h
blis
esta
osed ame ndm ent wou ld
of six mon ths last past . The prop
s
litie
faci
al
nav
and
bers of mili tary
sim ilar rule as to unif orm ed mem
on land .
wing wor ds are used : "pro vide d,
In the reco mm end atio n the follo
ber has resi ded at such facility for
how ever , that such unif orm ed mem
prec edin g the date of his app lica
a peri od of six mon ths imm edia tely
the
s
rove
app
es
pos
Pur
and Gen eral
tion ." You r Com mitt ee on Poli cy
e
as it goes, but believes that the sam
far
as
cy
poli
to
as
n
reco mm end atio
off
d
icile
app lica nt who may be dom
poli cy sho uld be ado pted as to an
. We reco mm end . ther efor e . that
base
the
a base as to one domiciled on
orm ed mem bers stat ione d at a mili
the policy be esta blis hed that unif
tion
sdic
juri
ial
itor
terr
ing
hav
a Lod ge
tary or nav al facility may peti tion
lity
ber has bee n stat ione d at such faci
mem
such
ided
prov
lity
of such faci
his
of
date
edia tely prec edin g the
for a peri od of six mon ths imm
app lica tion .
The Com mitt ee on Jurisprudence :
CM C be ame nde d as follows:
RES OL VE D : Tha t Sec tion 520
nd sent enc es of said sect ion the
Inse rt betw een the first and seco
following :
Stat es mili tary or nav al facility
A unif orm ed mem ber of a Uni ted
ge
the deg rees of Mas onr y in any Lod
is eligible to app ly for and rece ive
.
ever
how
.
of such facility prov ided
hav ing juri sdic tion of the loca tion
a
for
lity
faci
said
been stat ione d at
that such unif orm ed mem ber has
edin g the date of his app lica tion .
prec
tely
edia
imm
peri od of six mon ths
n and reco mm end a yes vote .
lutio
We move the ado ptio n of the reso
Ado pted 5/ 6 vote .
RECOMM END ATIO N 2
Gen eral Pur poses:
and
The Com mitt ee on Policy
A. be
mm end ed that a new artic le, IVreco
has
ter
The Gra nd Mas
226 .
s
tion
Sec
of
d
pose
com
be
to
Cod e
add ed to the Cal ifor nia Mas onic
onic
Mas
Tru stee s of the Cal ifor nia
227. 228 and 229 rela tive to the

273

to
nge prop osed whi ch may be said
Mem oria l Tem ple. The only cha
of
ber
num
the
in
n
ctio
redu
prop osed
invo lve a que stio n of poli cy is the
.
nine
to
en
elev
trus tees from
eral Pur pos es has inte rvie wed the
You r Com mitt ee on Poli cy and Gen
e
sfied that the redu ctio n may be mad
Pre side nt of the Boa rd and is sati
rd.
Boa
the
of
re
natu
e
tativ
repr esen
with out imp airin g the efficiency or
reco mm end atio n, we pres ent no
the
of
part
or
min
a
is
Bec ause this
motion.
The Com mitt ee on Jurisprudence:
be add ed to the Ord inan ces in the
RES OL VE D: Tha t a new Arti cle
bere d Arti cle IV- A. and that it be
Cal ifor nia Mas onic Cod e to be num
A
onic Mem oria l Tem ple. " Arti cle IVtitle d "Tr uste es of Cal ifor nia Mas
sect ions :
shal l be com pose d of the following
Pow ers. The Tru stee s of the Cal ifor
and
t
men
oint
Sec tion 226. App
ber.
num
in
nine
be
l
shal
,
tion
Cor pora
nia Mas onic Mem oria l Tem ple, a
be
and Jun ior Gra nd Wa rde ns shal l
ior
Sen
ter.
Mas
nd
Gra
The Dep uty
the
by
ed
oint
Tru stee s shal l be app
Tru stee s ex-officio. The othe r six
rs each . prov ided . how eve r. that the
yea
e
thre
Gra nd Mas ter for term s of
Tru stee s shal l exp ire at the clos e of
term s of one -thi rd of said app oint ive
y
nd Lod ge each year . Wh ere a vac anc
the Ann ual Com mun icat ion of Gra
.
term
ed
xpir
the rem aind er of the une
occ urs the app oint ee shal l serv e for
The
.
time
any
at
app oint ive Tru stee
The Gra nd Mas ter may rem ove an
s.
secr etar y of the Boa rd of Tru stee
the
be
ays
alw
l
Gra nd Sec reta ry shal
be
l
shal
s
stee
Tru
ified
qual
duly
Sec tion 227. Titl e to Pro pert y. The
onic Mem oria l Tem ple, " in which
the Tru stee s of the "Ca lifo rnia Mas
l.
to all prop erty . real and pers ona
corp orat ion shal l. be vest ed the title
.
tled
enti
me
in any way beco
and righ ts of acti on . to whi ch it may
rd. Said Tru stee s shal l orga nize
Boa
of
n
atio
aniz
Org
.
Section 228
the close of the Ann ual Com at
r
by the election of officers each yea
own
y shal l ado pt by-l aws for thei r
mun icat ion of Gra nd Lod ge. The
aws
by-l
ch
whi
ion.
t of said corp orat
guid anc e and for the man age men
the
of
l
rova
app
the
to
ject
. all sub
they may alte r or ame nd at any time
not
but
.
ness
bted
inde
r
incu
to
t
righ
Gra nd Mas ter. The y shal l hav e the
of the Gra nd Mas ter. The Gra nd
sent
con
the
out
with
ey
mon
ow
to borr
and
righ t of visi tatio n and insp ecti on,
Mas ter shal l at all times hav e the
men t.
the supe rvis ion of the enti re man age
Tru stee s shal l subm it a prin ted
The
.
orts
Rep
ual
Ann
.
229
Sec tion
ual
Lod ge at the beg inni ng of each Ann
Ann ual Rep ort in deta il to Gra nd
s
sset
a
the
of
n
ons and the con ditio
Com mun icat ion resp ecti ng ope rati
and liabilities of said corp orat ion.
n and reco mm end a yes vote .
We mov e ado pton of the reso lutio
Ado pted 5/ 6 vote.
REC OMM END ATIO N 3
eral Pur pos es:
The Com mitt ee on Pol icy and Gen
.
nd Mas ter Guy B. Miz e enti tled
Gra
of
Rec omm end atio n No. 3
ren
bee
has
y,"
kele
Ber
of Cal ifor nia,
" Mas onic Clu b of the Uni vers ity

ferred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The recommendation would add four new sections to the CMC.
It proposes technical changes in the corporate organization of the Masonic Club at Berkeley. including increasing the number of directors from
nine to fifteen. a nd providing for staggered three year terms. It grants
to Grand Lodge more effective control and supervision over an important
Masonic activity which has been maintai ned and supported by Grand
Lodge from the beginning.
The Board of Directors of the Club concurs in the recommended
changes and has already taken the necessary preliminary steps to change
the articles and by-laws of the corporation.
Your Committee moves the adoption of the recommendation and
recommends a yes vote.
The Committee on f urisprudence:
RESOLVED: That a new article be added to the Ordinances in
the California Masonic Code to be numbered ARTICLE IV - B bearing the title " D irectors of the Masonic Club of the University. Berkeley,
California" and that the following sections be added thereunder:
Section 231. Appointment of Directors. The directors of the Masonic
Club of the University. Berkeley, California. consisting of fifteen shall
be appointed by the Grand Master for terms of three years each, provided. however, that the terms of one-third of the directors shall expire
at the close of the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge each year.
Where a vacancy occurs the appointee shall serve for the remainder of
the unexpired term. The Grand Master may remove a director at any
time.
Section 232. Board of Directors and Title to Property. The duly
qua lified directors shall constitute the Board of Directors of the Masonic
Club of the University, Berkeley, California. a corporation. which shall
hold title to all assets of said corporation.
Section 233. Organization of the Board. Said Directors shall organize
by the election of officers each year at the close of the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge. They shall adopt by- laws for their own guidance
and for the management of said corporation , which by-laws they may
alter or amend at any time, all subject to the approval of the Grand
M aster. They shall have the right to incur indebtedness, but not to borrow money without the consent of the Grand Master. The Grand Master
shall at all times have the right of visitation and inspection, and the
supervision of the entire management.
Section 234. Annual Reports. The Directors shall submit a printed
Annual Report in detail to Grand Lodge at the beginning of each Annual Communication respecting operations and the condition of the
assets and lia bilities of said corporation, together with a proposed budget
for the ensuing year which shall be referred to the Committee on Finance
for appropriate consideration by Grand Lodge.
We move adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

275

RECO MMENDATION 4

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Recommendation No. 4 of Grand Master Guy B. Mize entitled.
"The Masonic Club-Unive rsity of California at Los Angeles," has
been referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
This recommendation is substantially the same as Recommendation
No. 3 except that it applies to the clubhouse at Los Angeles.
Both clubhouses are similar in purpose and function. The Grand
.
Lodge rules for their government should also be similar.
Your Committee moves the adoption of the recommendation and
recommends a yes vote.
The Committee on furi sprudence:
RESOLVED: That a new article be added to the Ordinances in
the California Masonic Code to be numbered ARTICLE IV~ C bearing the title " D irectors of the Masonic Club-University of California
at Los Angeles" and that the following sections be added thereunder:
Section 236. Appointment of Directors. The directors of the Masonic
Club-University of California at Los Angeles consisting of fifteen shall
be appointed by the Grand Master for terms of three years each, provided. however, that the terms of one-third of the directors shall expire
a t the close of the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge each year.
Where a vacancy occurs the appointee shall serve for the remainder of
the unexpired term. The Grand Master may remove a director at any
time.
Section 237. Board of Directors and Title to Property. The duly
qualified directo;s shall constitute the Board of Directors of th_e Maso~ic
Club-University of California at Los Angeles, a corporation, which
shall hold title to all assets of said corporation.
Section 238. Organization of the Board. Said directors shall organize
by the election of officers each year at the close of the Annual_Communication of Grand Lodge. They shall adopt by-laws for their own
guidance and for the management of said corporation, which by-laws
they may alter or amend at any time. all subject to the approval of the
Grand Master. They shall have the right to incur indebtedness, but not
to borrow money without the consent of the Grand Master. The Grand
Master shall a t all times have the right of visitation and inspection, and
the supervision of the entire management.
Section 239. Ann ual Reports. The directors shall s ubmit a printed
Annual Report in detail to Grand Lodge at the beginning of each Annual Communication respecting operations and the condition of the assets
and liabilities of said corporation, together with a proposed budget for
the ensuing year which shall be ref erred to the Committee on Finance
for appropriate consideration by Grand Lodge.
We move adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

276

277

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
PUBLIC S CHOOLS COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has recommended tha t membership of the Public
Schools Committee be increased to fifteen, citing as his reason the work
that has already been accomplished by that Committee and the evident
fact. t.hat much more can be accomplished by the appointment of these
add1t1onal members in strategic sections of the Jurisdiction.
Your Co.mmittee on Policy and General Purposes is fully aware of
~he flne service rendered by the Public Schools Committee and concurs
in the recommendation of the Grand Master.
We move that the Grand Master's recommendation be approved.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 192 CMC be amended. as follows:
In line four strike the words:
.... "on Public Schools" ....
Insert in line five between the words "each;" and "on Charters"
the following words:
on Public Schools, to consist of fifteen members.
. The result will be to increase the number of members of said Committee from nine to fifteen.
Fo~ the reasons stated in the Grand Master's message we favor this
resolution and move its adoption.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

MEMBERSHIP QUALIFICATION
(4)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 4 proposes that Section 511 of the California Masonic
Co~~ be amended by adding thereto the following:
Provided that one who has served a term in the state prison and
w~o has since lived properly should not by reason of the service of said
pnson_ term be deemed ineligible for Masonry."
It is stated in .an introductory clause that Grand Lodge has heretofore made exceptions to the rule of ineligibility of felons to receive the
degrees and two references are made to the Proceedings of the 1958
Communication. When one of the proponents of the resolution appeared
b:for~ our Committee, it was pointed out to him that in neither of the
cited instances had the applicant involved been convicted of a felony
and. b:ing trained in the law, he conceded such to have been the case.
. It is apparent from the resolution a nd the proponent that the resolut10.n has it~ genesis in the fact that the proponents know of one pros?ec~1~e applicant whom they consider worthy of admisison, but who is
mehg1ble because some years ago he was sentenced to and served a
term in a state prison.

However. the policy of the Grand Lodge must not be determined by
the situation of one or even a dozen prospective applicants. The question is: Will Freemasonry be benefited by opening the doors of its
Lodge rooms to those who have served time in state prisons? It is the
considered opinion of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
that such action would be a disservice to Masonry. There are hundred~
of thousands of men who are not Masons who have not served prisor
terms and the policy of ineligibility of felons. which has stood unchanged
since the inception of this Grand Lodge, should not now be changed
because of sympathy or liking for a given prospect.
We recommend a no vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLVED: That Section 511, CMC. be amended by adding at
the end of said section the following:
"Provided that one who has served a term in state prison and
who has since lived properly should not by reason of the service of said
term be deemed ineligible for Masonry."
For 87 years. since 1875. our law has been:
"One who has served a term in state prison is not under the tongue
of good report, and it is not proper to receive his petition." ( 511-g CMC)
This resolution 'Nill repeal this law.
This law ha& never been contradicted by Grand Lodge albeit the
proposers of this resolution erroneously contend that Grand Lodge has
made exceptions.
The proposers of this resolution attempt to equate the rights of an
uninitiated felon with those of a brother by contending that a brother
who serves time in prison may be restored to M asonic status by Grand
Lodge. We should remember that there is a fellowship which extends
a helping hand to a fallen brother.
If adopted, this resolution will create dissension within Lodges and
invite shame and ridicule by having it said that felons can gain membership.
We ask you to always remember our precepts: that to become a
Mason is a distinct honor and privilege-not a matter of common right;
that a candidate mus t be "under the tongue of good report" is a Masonic
requirement as old and as honored as the Fraternity itself and is a bulwark of protection of the Order and of every member thereof; and that
unimpeachable character and conduct are synonymous with Masonry
and must ever remain so.
We move adoption of this Resolution No. 4 but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

278

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

APPLI CATIO N FOR DEGR EES

APPLI CATIO N FOR DEGR EES

(6)

(7)

The Commit tee on Policy and Genera l Purposes:
Your Commit tee on Policy and General Purpose s, to which was
referred Resolut ion No. 6, reports as follows:
The Resolut ion propose s to include in the form of Applica tion for
Degree s an addition al question reading : "Do you believe in the separation of church and state?" The propone nts of the Resolut ion, with commendab le brevity, summar ized their reason for proposi ng the Resolut ion
as follows : "In order that a qmdida te may underst and the position of
Californ ia Blue Lodge Masons with regard to the separat ion of church
and state and to avoid future misunde rstandin g."
While the principle of the separati on of church and state is firmly
embedd ed in the United States Constit ution and the Constit ution of
almost every State in the Union, it seems to this Commi ttee desirabl e
that every candida te for our Degree s be reminde d of the doctrine and
that he underst and at the outset the position of Freema sonry in giving
our wholeh earted support to the doctrine . That objectiv e can be accomplished, we believe, by includin g the question in the Applica tion for
Degrees . An affirmative answer to the question will in no way bind or
commit the candida te to the applicat ion of the principl e to any particul ar
situatio n or state of facts.
We, therefor e, recomm end that Resolut ion No. 6 be adopted and
approve d, and that it be referred to the Commi ttee on Jurispru dence for
drafting as an amendm ent to Section 527 of the Californ ia Masoni c
Code.

The Commit tee on Policy and Genera l Purposes:
your Commi ttee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s has had r~ferr~d
·
ma
to 1t R eso1u t•10n N o. 7 . which would amend Section 527 .off the Caltfor
· C d t dd the words· "and shall have satis acton·1y passed
M asomc
o e o a
·
an examin ation on Masoni c Law as prescrib ed by Grand Lod ~~· "
The effect of this provision, if enacted , would be to proh1.b1~ Mas~er
· d · Californ ia after its enactme nt, from affiliation with
M asons, raise
m
. .
)
fl
h f
as
the collater al or concord ant bodies ( organtz
ations u~~ s~c 1 ime f
they have passed not only their proficiency in the cand1 ates ec.tu~e o
the Degree of Master Mason, but also an examina tion on Masom c aw.
We do not question the motives of the propone nts of this resoluti on.
It would be advanta geous if each Master Mason was thoroug hly conversant with Masoni c Law and Custom . Certain ly every Master Mason
serving as an officer in a constitu ent Lodge or in a ~o!l~teral or concordant organiz ation should be aware of his respons1b.'hty as a Free· sly doubt. howeve r. that the resolution as propose d
mason. w e senou
would reach the solution sought.
your Commit tee is of the opinion that the proper educayo n of our
member s would best be initiated at the time they.~re progre~smg through
their degrees and not by the adoptio n of an add1t1o~al requirem ent of an
· t'
after they have been raised to the sublime degree of Master
examm a ton
. h
f Can
Mason. Such a program is already encomp asse d m
t e program o
~
didates ' Educati on now being initiated by our Grand Lecture r.
We move the adoptio n of the resolution and recomm end a no vote.

The Commit tee on futisprudence:
RESOL VED:
That another questio n be added to Sec. 527 CMC- ( Form of
applicat ion for degrees ) to read as follows:
Do you believe in separation of
Church and State?
This question should not be put to a candida te because it has religious connota tions. Religio n is not a test for member ship. ( 511-d
CMC).
We move adoptio n of this resoluti on but urge a no vot~.
A majority voted against the resoluti on.

279

The Commit tee on furisprudence:
RESOL VED:
That questio n 15 of Sec. 527 CMC be amen~ed, as f.~llows,;
..
In the sixth line thereof between the words Mason and and
insert the following words:
. .
and shall have satisfactorily passed an examma tmn on Masom.c
law as prescribed by Grand Lodge
.
We agree with the purport of this resoluti on but its implementat10n
would require appoint ment of Commit tees by Gran~ Lodge ~ot only t.0
ive examina tions in Masoni c law but possibly to mstr~ct m Maso:i1c
?aw. Such underta king would be too arduous and complic ated and impractica l.
We move adoptio n of the resoluti on but suggest a no vote.
A majorit y voted against the resoluti on.

280

PROCEEDING S OF THE

BURIAL WITH MASONIC HONORS
(10)
The Committee on Policy and G eneral Purposes:
Your Committee on P olicy and General Purposes has considered
Resolution No. I 0, proposed by three Past Masters of South San Francisco Lodge No. 212 , to provide that where a member in good standing
is alleged to have committed murder and then suicide, the Master and
W ardens of the Lodge are to determine whether or not the deceased
shall be buried with Masonic honors.
The fact that a member is in good standing and of general good
repu tation is no guarantee that he has not committed the a lleged crime,
nor that the suicide is not itself an admission of his guilt. Obviously
there can be no legal determinatio n of the guilt or innocence o f the deceased member, since he cannot be prosecuted.
We believe that the proposed interpretatio n is wholly unnecessary ,
since the Master and W ardens, under Section 604 of the CMC. already
are given the r ig ht to determine as to the propriety of burying a suicide
with Masonic honors. We have such provision, even though at common
law suicide was a felony and even though in the minds of ma ny people
today suicide carries a moral stigma.
We would suggest. however. that in a case of this kind the Master
and Wardens should be extremely cautious in the exercise of the right.
because in giving a Masonic burial to one alleged to have committed
murder the attendant publicity could adversely reflect upon the Fraternity.
We move the adoption of the resolution but we recommend a no
vote on the resolution.
Th e Committee on furisprudence:
RESOLVE D :
That Sec. 604 CMC be amended as follows:
Insert at the end thereof the following language:
In the event that it a ppea rs that an alleged felony has been committed a nd the accused thereupon committed suicide. the Master and
the Wardens are to determine whether or not the accused is to be
buried with M asonic Honors. As our Civil La ws protect the accused.
in that a man is innocent until proven guilty of the crime of which
he is accused, it must be borne in mind that a Police Report is an
official preliminary investigatio n but does not necessarily establish
the fina l proof o f guilt of the accused, nor the conviction of the accused for the crime. Furthermore , if there is reasonable doubt of the
accused's guilt because of alternate or remote possibilities involved.
he should receive proper consideratio n to be buried with Masonic
Honors, provided that he was a Master Mason in good standing at
the time.

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

281

This resolution would introduce a set of facts relating to one particular case only. Facts are probative and a s et of hypothetical facts
should not be included in the law.
A s our law now stands the Master and W a rdens have the power to
determine facts in all cases and the discretion to bury a suicide . We think
our law as it now exists is sound and that our Masters and Wardens
are reliable.
W e move adoption of the Resolution but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution .

RESEARC H LODGE OFFICERS
(11)
T he C ommittee on Policy and General Purposes:
In summa ry Resolution No. 11 would eliminate paragraph 18 of
Section 385 CMC which now req uires that none but a Past Master of
a C a lifornia Lodge is eligible for election as Master or W arden of a
Research Lodge and provide that if such Master or Warden is not a
Past Master of a Cali fornia Lodge he must produce a certificate of proficiency in the opening and closing ceremonies. The resolution then seeks
to amend paragraph 10 to fu rther clarify the distinction between one
who has served as Master of a Resea rch Lodge and a Past Master of
other constit uent Lodges.
Th e effect of this resolution would be to further distinguish Research
Lodges from other constitue nt Lodges. One may well argue that if they
are to be constituent Lodges then Research Lodges should follow the
general rules applicable to constituent Lodges. On th~. other ~and, th.e
first sentence of Section 38 5 states in part as follows : A special class1fication of constituent Lodges is hereby established ... " . T his, together
with the many restrictions and the qualification s fou nd in Section 385,
indicates that it wa s never intended that the Research Lodges and the
other constituent Lodges were to be governed by the same r ules.
The members of your Committee on Policy and General P urposes
are persuaded that th is legislation is necessary to preserve some of the
Research Lodges who find it difficult to interest Past Masters to assume
the position of Master or Wa rden. We. therefore, move the a doption
of the resol ution and recommend a yes vote.
T he Committee on fur isprndence:
Y our C om mittee reports on R esolution No. 11 by E . S . H opp et a l.
members of Research Lodges. respecting Re search Lodge Officers. as
follows:
Past Grand Master Arthur P aulsen, who presided in 1951 , may be
called the fathe r of our Research Lodges. He worked diligently on the
s ubject during his year with a s pecial committee. Even the n the subject
required further study and it was referred to the Commit~ee .on Jur isprudence to submit legislation at the next Annual Commumcat1on.

282

283

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

After painstaking work and research. new legislation was presented
during Grand Master Drapeau's year and was adopted as law ( 1952
Proc. p. 326). It is recorded in Sec. 385 CMC.
Ever since, it seems that some members of Research Lodges have
tried to change the law. In 1953 they sought and were granted exemption
from minimum annual dues (Sec. 385-17 CMC). This was an advantage over regular Lodges. They sought representation in Grand Lodge.
This was rejected ( 1960 Proc. p. 260). They have another Resolution
No. 12 now before Grand Lodge in which it is asked that an appropriation or subsidy of $500.00 be extended to each Research Lodge to establish a Masonic library. This seeks advantage over regular Lodges.
No regular Lodge is entitled to nor has sought subsidy. It is fundamental
that Lodges should be self-sustaining. So should Research Lodges. They
have still another Resolution No. 9 now before Grand Lodge seeking
appointment of an Honorary Marshal to present the flag during Installation Ceremony. In such ceremony the Lodge has been opened and the
flag is in the Lodge. To present another one would be cumbersome.
This is an intrusion into the affairs of a Lodge by Research members.
The Resolution No. 11 now before us. seeking amendment of Sec.
385CMC,isinthreeparts (A), (B) & (C).
(A) would amend paragraph 10 of Sec. 385 CMC to read as specified in the resolution. This language is completely unnecessary for OU'.!'
law as it now exists amply covers the proposals, as follows:
1. Sec. 8 CMC (Constitution) defines members of Grand Lodge.
Officers and former officers of a Research Lodge are not among them.
2. Sec. 490 CMC defines a Past Master and a Past Master of a Research Lodge is not included.
After this resolution has been acted upon by Grand Lodge, if necessary, we shall present a resolution in just a few words which will
clarify all.
( B) would amend paragraph 5 of Sec. 385 CMC and require proficiency certificates from an Inspector for Officers of Research Lodges
who are not Past Masters. This would place an additional burden on
our already overburdened Inspector's and should not be required. As
our law now stands this is not necessary.
(C) would strike paragraph 18 of Sec. 385 CMC which reads, as
follows:
"18. None but a Past Master of a California Lodge is eligible for
election as Master. Senior or Junior Warden of a Research Lodge."
This legislation was adopted in 1960 ( 196() Proc. p. 256). In 1961
members of Research Lodges asked repeal and were voted down by
Grand Lodge ( 1961 Proc. p. 296). They are again asking repeal.
We think this section should not be repealed. In our Lodges the
Officers pass through the several chairs to the Master's Chair. The pur-

pose of this is to enable the Officer to become acquainted with our rules.
regulations and precepts and to learn how to govern the Lodge. Research Lodges exist by the sufferance of Grand Lodge and they are expected at all times to be Masonic in character. The operating officers
should be experienced Masons.
We move adoption of Resolution No, 11 but urge a no vote.
If the foregoing resolution is rejected, present the following :
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 385-5 be amended by inserting therein the following
Code Sections: 8 and 490.
A simple majority voted for the resolution. Failing a 5/6 vote, the
matter was held over until the 1963 Annual Communication.

SERVING OF LIQUORS
(15)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 15 has been referred to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes.
This resolution proposes to delete from Section 408 of the California
Masonic Code that portion which reads. "nor shall any such liquors be
used or served at any Ma·s onic banquet or gathering."
We feel sure that the proponent did not realize the full implication
of his resolution, but a literal interpretation would mean that liq uor could
be served at any Masonic function. including Stated Meetings, the conferring of degrees or even in Grand Lodge at its communications.
It is stated by the proponent that our law regarding liquor " does not
reflect the concept of our modern way of life."
Your Committee could argue at length on our objections to the reso~
lution, but feels that it is sufficient to say that the Fraternity does not
change its cu.stems and laws because of what society generally has a ccepted as proper and further. that the serving of liquor at Masonic fu nctions would be offensive to many of our members.
The resolution would accomplish no good purpose but would do
irreparable harm to the Craft.
We move the adoption of the resolution, but your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes recommends a no vote.
The Committee on f urisprudence:
RESOLVED:
That Sec. 408 CMC be amended, as follows:
Strike the last words in the section reading. as follows:
"nor sha ll any such liquors be used or served at any Ma·s onic
banquet or gathering."
We move adoption of the resolution but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

284

285

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SPONSORSHIP OF DE MOLAY
(16)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolu tion No. 16 proposes an amendment to what is called Section
333-r of the California Code. Aside from the fact that there is no such
section, the letter "r" is merely a designation of an annotation under
Section 333, we call attention that it has been the established policy of
this body since the Communication in 1956 that Lodges may sponsor
chapters of the Order of De Molay. but may not expend Lodge fund s to
that end. It, therefore. appears to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes that the adoption of Resolµt ion No. 16 is not necessary in order
to authorize sponsorship of De Molay Chapters by our Lodges and we
shall discuss the resolution only as to permitting expenditure o f Lodge
funds.
We are satisfied the need of the Order of De Molay in California
is that Freemasons give of themselves to support that Order rather than
that they make the somewhat impersonal gift of funds from Lodges. The
Order of De Molay needs and deserves the time and energies of additional qualified members of our fraternity who will serve as chapter
advisers and assist in the formulation of programs and activities. This
is a gift of greater value than the appropriation o f Lodge funds.
W e further believe that the opportunities of participation in activities
and the use of paraphernalia of the Order of De Molay will be far more
appreciated by its members if they themselves earn the cost thereof.
We . therefore, move the adoption of Resolution No. 16 and recommend a no vote with the understanding that the Grand Lodge thereby
will not alter the present policy of permitting sponsorship.
The Committee on furisprudence:
Your Committee reports on Resolution No. 16 by H . E. Darling
et al as follows:
This resolution seeks to legislate upon or amend a decision of a
Grand Master. This is improper. A decision may be repealed but not
amended. Legislation is an Ordinance and should become a part of CMC
bearing a section number. Decisions and edicts are listed by letters under
section numbers.
Under Sec. 333-f. sponsorship of De Molay by a Lodge is forbidden.
The language following the word "NOTE:" is mere policy and comment by the Code Commission and is not law.
Therefore. in order to accomplish the intent of the resolution we
shall present two resolutions as follows:
I. RESOLVED :
That Sec. 333-f of CMC be repealed.
Comment: If this resolution is adopted nothing in our law will
prohibit sponsorship of the Order of De Molay but expenditure
of funds by Lodges in such sponsorship will remain prohibited.
We move adoption of the resolution and urge a yes vote.

2. RESOLVED:
That a new section be added to CMC reuding as follows:
Sec. 331.1. Sponsorship of De Molay.
A Lodge by resolution may sponsor a Chapter or Chapters of
the Order of De Molay and may expend its funds in nominal
amounts to provide equipment, supplies and furnishings for such
sponsored Chapter or Chapters, all subject to approval of the
Grand Master.
We move adoption but urge a no vote.
Resolution l~Ad opted 5/ 6 vote.
Resolution 2-A majority voted against.

COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS RECOMMENDA TIONS

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been re ferred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes the Report of the Committee on By-Laws.
We approve the suggestions that applications for changes should
be presented with sufficient copies so that a copy can be referred to the
Committee on By-Laws, and also that Lodges be required to use the
certification form prescribed by Section 366 of the CMC. but we feel
that these are administrative matters which can be placed in effect by
the Grand Secretary's office, which could also prepare a similar form
of certification to be used on applications for approval of resolutions
for removal or change of meeting place pursuant to Sections 372 or 373
of the CMC.
The report states that Section 343 has been va riously interpreted
but does not state wherein different interpretations occur. If the report
refers to the time Axed for Stated Meetings. it would seem to be clearly
covered by the annotations to the section which interpret the provision
to mean that a Lodge may not be opened before the time fixed in the
By-Laws and that the Lodge should not make it a practice or policy to
convene at a later hour.
We think that the Committee on By-Laws should be commended
for their great industry in reviewing 128 amendments and resolutions,
and that their report should be approved.
We move the adoption of this report.
The Committee on f urisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has reviewed the report of the
By-Laws Committee, the special dispensations issued by the Grand
Master during the past year. and his approval of changes of by-laws
and resolutions relative to life memberships.
We feel that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of our law. We
recommend that special dispensations and life membership resolutions
and changes of by-laws above referred to be approved.
Adopted.

286

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT O F COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
In accordance with the provision of Ordinances, an audit of all
accounts of Grand Lodge and its agencies has been completed by
the firm of Lybrand, Ross Bros. and Montgomery for the fiscal year
which ended June 30, 1962. These have been examined by this Committee and discussed with Brother Jam es E. Hammond, a general
partner of the firm.
In the opinion of this Committee, the audit correctly states the
financial position of Grand Lodge. A copy of the audit will be printed
in the annual Proceedings.
It shows total revenue for Grand Lodge of $389,726.11 and expenses
and appropriations of $372,965. 76, leaving net revenue of $16, 760.35.
With one or two small exceptions, all expenditures were within
budgeted appropriations. Your Committee commends the Chairmen
of all Committees and Boards, and the Grand Secretary, for their
diligence in staying within the budget.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

The Grand Treasurer's report was referred to this Committee and
has been examined. All items are in accord with the audit and we
recommend approval.
The report also lis ts small supplemental appropriations approved
by the Grand Master which were in excess of the budget. We recommend approval of this action by the Grand Master.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT

There was referred to this Committee that portion of the Grand
Secretary's report in which he recommends that certain Lodges under
dispensation not be required to pay the per capita tax. We recommend
approval.

GRAND LOOGE OF CALIFORNIA

287

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON

The audit for the last fiscal year shows that cash disbursements
from publication of our official magazine, California Freemason, were
in excess of cash receipts in the amount of $1, 125.33.
We recommend that Grand Lodge approve the appropriation of
$1,125.33 to cover this deficiency.
It is estimated that approximately 311,000 individual copies of future
issues of the magazine were subscribed and paid for at June 30, 1962.
At 20 cents per copy this amounts to $62,200.00 and represents a
liability of Grand Lodge. Against this we have $35,168.22 in the reserve.
If future publication of the magazine does not show an excess of cash
receipts over expenditures, we feel that Grand Lodge should give consideration to increasing the reserve by an appropriation from general
funds.
RETIREMENT I N COME PLAN

The action taken by Grand Lodge at the last communication in
funding the total of past service credits for all employees of Grand
Lodge and its agencies was partially responsible for the anticipated
and realized decrease in cost of some $9,200.00 from the previous
year.
For the current fiscal year we are budgeting a total of $16,900.00
to cover current service credits on all employees under the Retirement
Plan.
NEW GRAND LODGE REGALIA

There has been referred to thi-s Committee that portion of the
Grand Master's Message in which he recommends the purchase of
new regalia and equipment for Grand Lodge Officers.
We have discussed this matter with the Grand Master and are
inclined to agree with his reasons for making the recommendation. We
have been furnished with an estimate of $2, 700.00 as the cost of this
new set and have included it in the budget. We recommend approval.

MASONIC HOMES

We have examined the audit of the accounts of the Masonic Homes
of California and have reviewed the report of the Trustees. After a
discussion of the affairs of the Homes with the Trustees, your Committee is of the opinion that a renewal of the per capita of $1.00
will be sufficient to support their operating budget for the current fiscal
year.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the sum of $1.00 per capita be levied for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1963, the proceeds to be paid to
the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California.

GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT

There has been referred to this Committee the report of the Grand
Lecturer in which he recommends the printing of Candidate and Candidate Coach Handbooks. With the approval of the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes, to which the matter has been referred, we
recommend the appropriation of $6,950.00 which is estimated to be
the cost of this program.
It is your Committee's understanding that these Handbooks are
to be distributed to the constituent Lodges at a price which should at
least return to Grand Lodge the cost of printing.

288

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

BUDGE T 1962-196 3
ADMINIST RATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries ..............................................................................$ 91,400.00
Grand Lodge Offices Temple Operation and Maintenan ce Expense ........ 18,000.00
3,000.00
Audit ---·--·----·------------·-···············-----··----------- .. ·-------------------··
250.00
····--·····Grand Treasurer ·-·-····-----···-···-······-···-· ---------·------·
4.500.00
·············
···-········---··
·
Postage and Express -------- ---··-----·-··-··
4.500.00
Telephone and Telegraph --··· -···-·-······---···· ··- -···-·--·····-······
4,600.00
Social Security and Unemploy ment Taxes ......................
500.00
Investmen t Counsel ····--··-······---·-······-·······--·······-··············
Retiremen t Pension Plan 7,200.00
Grand Lodge Office Employees ..............................
Retiremen t Pension Plan 9.700.00
Grand Lodge A gencies Employee s ........................
1,000.00
Grand Lodge Employee s Medical Benefits ....................
765.00
Suppleme ntal Pension ·························--···-··· ···-··········-·····
TOTAL ·····-·························-·- ···----························---$145.415.00

GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communi cation .................................................... $ 16.500.00
5,000.00
Conferenc es ···········-····· -···-····················-···-···· ···--··············
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense................. ......... 10,000.00
850.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ·- ······-··········-········-··· ·--Grand Master's Travel. Secretaria l
and Miscellaneou s Expense ········-············-·-···· -······· I 2.000.00
6.000.00
Investmen t Counsel for Lodges ·- ----········-··················-··-·-·
37,300.00
-···········-···
················Represent atives' Mileage ·-·········-·····
Printing ··-·························-············-·······················-·····-······ 26,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer --·····-·-······· -··-············· ······--·-··············
3,200.00
Inspectors ' Aprons and Stationery ..........................
Ritual Committe e and Inspectors'
Conferenc e and Travel Expense ...................... 14.000.00
900.00
Retiremen t Pay ················ -················--····-········· ·--·-·····-··-···
3,700.00
··············
················
·············-···
--·············-·
Veteran Buttons
3.700.00
Supplies and Miscellan eous ..............................................
Insurance :
Workmen 's Compensa tion for Lodges ................... . I 1,000.00
Fidelity Bond ( 3-year policy) ................................. . None
500.00
Miscellan eous ····················-············-· ·-······-············--··
2.700.00
Grand Lodge Regalia .................................................. ......
TOTAL ................................ .................................... $153,950.00

289

APPROPRIA TIONS

Activities Committe e ........................................................ $ 4,000.00
2,000.00
Board of Control ······-··-·······················--···························
750.00
Charters Committe e ..........................................................
1,200.00
Columbia Temple Committe e ···········-········-·- ·············-·····
750.00
Constituti on Observan ce Committe e ............................. .
500.00
DeMolay Committe e ···································-···········-········
Employm ent Bureaus ........................................................ 12,312.00
Endowme nt Board ............................................................ 16,000.00
1.200.00
History Committe e ............................................................
2,000.00
.
.................
................
Committe e on Masonic Education
,000.00
3
.
..........
................
.................
e
Committe
Lodge Financing
2,500.00
······
·-··········---··
Expense·
Campaign
Memorial Temple 1,500.00
Committe e on Public Schools ..........................................
Boards of Relief 50.00
Reimburse ment for Sojourner s ..................................
750.00
.
.......
.................
.................
alism
Committe e on Commerci
300.00
Sojourner s Committe e ..................................................... .
s:
Clubhouse
University
19,100.00
Berkeley ·········-······--·-···--------- ·------········· -···········-·····
20,530.00
.
..
.................
Los Angeles ....................... .................
150.00
Code Commission ················-····-·····---------··--······---------------·
1,600.00
--···---·-··-···--··---·
Grand Lodge Legal Expense ·······---------500.00
Investmen t Committe e ························-··--·-····· ·--··-----·-··--· 6.250.00
··-------·------------··················
Master
Grand
Relief Fund 6,460.00
Committe e Oij. Masonic Cemeteries ···········--··-··-··· --·····--·
1,000.00
.
............
Committe e on Masonic Informatio n .................
1,125.00
.
......
.................
.................
Library Commission .................
1,000.00
Committe e on Old Masonic Hall - Los Angeles ......... .
TOTAL ....................................................................$106,527. 00

RECAPITU LATION

Administr ative and Office ................ .......................... ..... $145,415.00
General Expense ··--·······················-··········------········-·······-· 153,950.00
Appropria tions ·········-········--··-···········-··········--········-·········· I 06.527.00
GRAND TOTAL ....................................................$405,892.00

ESTIMATE D INCOME

Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc ......................... $331,920. 00
Income from Investmen ts, Interest ................. ................. 34,000.00
Payment from M asonic Homes Endowme nt Board Expense .................................... 16,000.00

290

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNJ,\

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Payment from Masonic Homes Secretarial and Other Services --------·--··················-··

APPROPRIATIONS

24,000.00

TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME ··-·-··--·-··········· $405,920.00
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS ·-··-··········-··---············-·· 405,892.00
ESTIMATED S URPLUS ---···-·-·-·--······-············--·$

28.00

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Contemplated purchases including typewriters,
filing cabinets . library equipment, and
miscellaneous other equipment ··--········-················-·-$

4, 100.00

BUDGET
ONE QUARTER-JULY 1, 1963-SEPTEMBER 30, 1963
ADMINISTRATIVE AND 0P FICE

Salaries ·······-·····-··-············--···-·--···---··----··-····-····-··--····--·----$ 25,000.00
Grand Lodge Offices 4.500.00
Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense ···-·-··
75.00
Grand Treasu rer ·-····---·-··-···--·······-·--·-- ·····-·······-·····--········
1,500.00
·····--Postage and Express ·····-··--··----···--····---------·-----···-·--·
1,200.00
Telephone and Telegraph .. ·--·····-···········---···-···-····-····-···· ·
1.800.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes·--·----------------·275.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits --------- -·····-·-·2,500.00
Audit ····--···-··----·-------------·-····---------------·--·------------·-·-----------TOT AL ······-···-·········-········-·-·········-··--··-··-··-············-$ 36.850.00
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication -----··-··--·-··-···················---··-····-··-·--·$ 8,000.00
1,000.00
Conferences ······-··--··-··--····-·······-····-····--·--··-------·--·----··-·····
3,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ----··-- ·-···-·······-·5,000.00
Printing ·-··-----·--··--··------------------·--·---···-··-·----·-···--···-·········--Ritualistic Expense:
150.00
Grand Lecturer ---··-··········-···-··-·-----------------········-····800.00
··-·--·
---------·-····-··Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
1,000.00
Conference and Travel Expense·-------·-·········-··
225.00
Retirement P ay ···-··-··--·····--····················-······--·- ·--··-··-······-·
1.000.00
Veteran Buttons ······--------··--·············· --··-·---·····-·····-··---···-··
1,100.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous -----------··-··--·--·--·-----··--··-· ······-500.00
--···········-------·····--------·--------·-Insurance - Miscellaneous
TOTAL

291

······-······-················-·················-·····-··-······----$ 21.775.00

Relief Fund - Grand Ma ster ····----------··············-········-----$
Activities Committee --·-·-··-·--·--·--------·-----···-··---···--····· ···-·-Board of Control ·············-···········-······-··············---·-·--··--··Charters Commiltee ········ --··-···-·------·-··-····-·-··-····-··············
Columbia Temple Committee --··--···-··--···-····-·····-······-··---Constitution Observance Committee ····---···-·· ··········-·--·-DeMolay Committee ---·····-----···-·--------·-··---··· ··········---------·
Endowment Board ------·--··---·-··----·-·--·· ··-··-·-······ ·····---------·-History Committee ·-····--·-··-····-·---··--·-··············· ······-··-·--····
Committee on Masonic Education -··-··--···········-·---·---··--··
Lodge Financing Committee -·······---······-···· ········· ····-··--··-M emorial Temple - Campaign E xpense ··-·······-·-----------Committee on Public Schools ------------··-··-·-·-·-----·····----·---Committee on Commercialism ----··--··---·········-··-·-··········-·-Code Commission ······--·---·--------------·-·-----··--····--·-·-·······--·-·Investment Committee ·-··-··-··-·----··--····-·-·-···-······-··- ··-----·-··
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries --·-·-··. ·······-·---···--·-----··
Sojourners' Committee ···-···---·----------···-· · ··· ··········---·--······
Committee on Masonic Information ···-········-·············-·--··
Library Commission -···············-···············--···········-··-··-·-···Committee on Old Masonic H a ll, Los A ngeles ......... ____ _

1,900.00
2,000.00
500.00
200.00
350.00
200.00
100.00
2.000.00
350.00
500.00
750.00
300.00
400.00
200.00
50.00
150.00
] .000.00
50.00
250.00
300.00
300.00

T O TAL ·---·········-··-·---------------------·--·-------··············-·--$ 11 .850.00
RECAPI TU LATION

Administrative and Office............... --·-·--·-··-···-·-·-·-····-···-··-·$ 36.850.00
General Expense ·········-·-----·--···----·-··-·--···············-·····--·---· 21.775.00
Appropriations --·-···········--·---·--·-··--------------······-----·-·--------·· 11,850.00
G RA ND TOTAL -····-----------------------··-·····--·-----------$ 70.475.00
You will note that under the proposed budget we just about break
even. This balance of income and expense was only accomplis hed by
holding a ll appropriations to the bare minimum consistent with sound
operation. Obviously it provides no leeway for emergencies which
might arise. In addition, to avoid a deficit, it will be necessary fo r all
committees and boards to exercise their customary care in the use of
their respective appropriations.
Ordinarily, you r Committee on Finance would hesitate to recommend a budget without any provision for unforeseen expenses which
may arise. We do so this year because we are reluctan t to ask our

292

GRAND LODGE OP CAl.IPO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

do so.
Lodges for an increas e in per capita, and have conclu ded not to
ion:
resolut
ng
followi
the
er
off
re,
We. therefo
RESO LVED : That for the purpos e of paying the expens es
of Grand Lodge, a per capita aggreg ating $3.30 be levied for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1963. divided as follows:
Consti tutiona l per capita for
Califor nia Mason ic Memor ial Templ e ..... ....................... $1.00
Mason ic Homes ........... ............................................................. 1.00
Consti tutiona l per capita for Grand Lodge ............................ .50
Additio nal per capita for Grand Lodge ................. ............... .80
Total Per Capita ....................................................... ......... $3.30
Respec tfully submit ted.
FRANK HARWE LL, JR .
PAUL F. BALCK
ALPRE O H. N1C01.L
FRED M. CLARK
LAMB
LAWRE NCE
L
PucEL
J.
NY
ANTHO

by the
be control led by the Maste r, and if he does not control it then
district Inspec tor.
and
We think there is no necessi ty for either of the resolut ions,
recomm end that they be not adopte d.
Respect£ ully submit ted.
HAROL D N. RICHAR DS
RAYMO ND G . TAYLO R
BEN So RR ELLS

DONAL D G. CAMPB ELL
CLARE B. CAMPB ELL
ARTHU R J. KAHN
COLLIN S
RALPH

w.

w.

The Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l Purpos es indicat ed their
currenc e in the recomm endatio n.
A majori ty voted agains t the resolution.

con-

FUNER AL SERVIC E RITUAL

c.

Each of the recomm endatio ns of the Comm ittee on Financ e
separa tely adopte d.
The entire report of the Comm ittee was then adopte d.

293

was

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON RITU AL
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M . of California:
G1PT PRESEN TATION

(I & 2)
red Resolu tions Nos. I and 2 relatin g
conside
has
Your Comm ittee
rings, "and other paraph ernalia inpins,
Bibles,
of
to the presen tation
dicativ e of the fact that a person is a Master Mason ."
of
We serious ly questio n whethe r any of these things is indicat ive
ing
someth
is
that
e
becaus
,
the fact that a person is a Master Mason
which is indicat ed only by his conduc t as a Mason .
the
The restrict ion placed upon presen tations in certain pa rts of
d
resulte
Jurisdi ction, to require the presen tation after the meeting, has
te.
elabora
become
from the fact that presen tations in certain Lodges have
Somelengthy and artificial and have detract ed from the ritual itself.
suprcially
comme
ny
ceremo
tation
times. it has been a lengthy presen
house.
plied by a Bible publish ing
We sugges t that there can be no objecti on to a simple presen tation
ncemen t
of a Bible. or a pin or a ring. at the proper place at the comme
and
simple
be
must
tation
presen
such
that
but
ny,
ceremo
of the closing
should
it
work,
short, and if overdo ne to the detrim ent of the degree

( 8)
conside red Resolu tion No. 8 propos has
Ritual
on
ittee
Comm
Your
graveing prepara tion of a separa te Funera l Service for renditi on at the
side.
preThe resolut ion is defecti ve becaus e it fails to specify who shall
.
Service
l
pare the new separa te Funera
conGrand Lodge has long had an adopte d Funera l Service for the
in
d
adopte
and
stituen t Lodges . This service was completely revised
the
at
ed
deliver
be
to
1955. The service provid es for the "comm ittal"
is congraves ide or at the place where the Mason ic Funera l Service
at the
given
be
to
prayer
a
for
s
provide
ed
cluded . The service as amend
ttal.
commi
the
of
graves ide as a part
There are but few cases where an entire graves ide service is either
ed
desired or is feasible. The reason able wish of the family of the deceas
.
service
d
adopte
our
f
o
certain ly does not include a comple te change
d
We do not believe there is either justification or reasona ble deman
all
to
ble
applica
Service
l
Funera
ic
Mason
one
for having more than
at the
cases, or that anythin g more tha n the "comm ittal" should be given
gravesi de.
We recomm end that the resolut ion be not adopte d.
their
The Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l Purposes indicat ed
n.
endatio
concur rence in the recomm
A majori ty voted agains t the resolution.
INSTAL LATION SERVIC E

(9)
proYour Comm ittee on Ritual has consid ered Resolu tion No. 9
Flag
a
for
provide
to
Service
tion
Installa
the
posing an amend ment to
presen tation at public installa tions by an Honor ary Marsh al.
disSince 1927 our law has require d that the Flag of our Countr y be

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

played at all meetings of our Lodges. and at the annual election of
officers and at such other meetings as may be deemed desirable by the
Master, the Flag must be formally presented at the Altar by the Marshal
and received in the manner prescribed by the Grand Lecturer. ( 1927:
473)
In order to open the Lodge for the ceremony of installation . the
Flag must be displayed in its proper place in the East. or it must be
presented at the Altar by the Marshal and the Deacons in accordance
with the Flag ceremony adopted by Grand Lodge.
The Flag is required to be displayed at all times while the Lodge is
open, whether at work or at refreshment. There is no logic whatever in
permitting the Flag to be informally taken out of the Lodge in order to
have it again presented by an Honorary Marshal while the Lodge is at
refreshment for purposes of installation. The proposed resolution does
not provide just how the Flag is to be taken out of the Lodge room. nor
by whom.
Our present Installation Service provides all due respect and honor
to the Flag, by requiring the pledge of allegia nce to be given at the very
commencemen t of the installation ceremony. whether it be a public or
private ceremony. We do not think the Flag should become mere paraphernalia to be carried in and out of the Lodge room. It is the pledge of
allegiance to the Flag which is important, not the act of someone carrying it about the Lodge room.
We recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their concurrence in the recommendatio n.
A majority voted against the resolution .
At 4:15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. Friday.

IN GRAND LODGE

294

295

MORNING SESSION-FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1962
At 9:30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding . The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The minutes
of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday, October 11th, were
read and approved.

CALLING UP PROCEDUR ES
The Grand Master specified, as listed. the gavels used during the
several sessions. The gavel used to call up Grand Lodge heads the list for
each session as follows:
Monday a.m ................. ARTHUR CAMPBEL!., P.M.

Unity Lodge No. 368. Glendale, using
gavel presented to the Grand Master December 12. 1938, by his wife and son on
the occasion of his installation as Worshipful Master of Unity Lodge No. 368.
Monday p.m ................ ..JAMES R. WRIGHT. W.M.
Woodland Lodge No. 156, Woodland,
using gavel presented July 21. 1962, at
its Centennial Celebration. Also used was
gavel presented August 25, 1962, at the
cornerstone laying of Old Masonic Hall.
Los Angeles.
Tuesday a.qt ................. T. DAVID Woo. S.W.

Kilauea Lodge No . 330, using gavel presented May 7, 1962. at reception in Hilo.
Hawaii. Also used were gavels presented
June 30, 1962, by Districts 500 and 502
at reception at Winnedumah Lodge No .
287, Bishop; presented O ctober 8, 1961,
by San Mateo Officers Association at
their breakfast; and presented fuly 18,
1962, by Districts 620 and 621 at reception at Lomita Lodge No. 644, Lomita.

Tuesday p.m ................. GEORGE K. PORTER, P.M.

Russian River Lodge No. 181, using gavel
presented October 14, 1961, at dedication
Sheppard Elementary School, Santa Rosa.
Also used were gavels presented April 7,
1962. by Garden Gro11e Lodge No. 586 at
cornerstone laying H. Louis Lake Elementary School. Garden Grove; and presented August 28, 1962, by Triad Lodge
U. D., Montebello, at its institution.

296

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Wednes daya.m ........... JoHN B. PATTERSON, W.M.

Riviera Lodge No. 780, using gavel presented Novemb er 18, 1961 , at cornerstone
laying Palisades High S chool, Pacific
Palisade s. Also used was gavel presente d
Septemb er 16, 1962, by Libertas Lodge
No. 466 at cornerstone laying of Civic
Auditori um. Bakers field Civic Center,
Bakersfield.
Thursda y a.m ......... ......OscAR A. HuLSTROM , W.M .

Seafaring Lodge No. 708. using gavel presented February 24. 1962. at cornerstone
laying Gisler Element ary School. Costa
Mesa. Also used were gavels presente d at
the following cornerstone ceremonies on
April 28, 1962. at C osta Mesa: Sonora
Elementa ry S chool. Pomona Element ary
S chool. and Corona Del Mar High
School; and gavels presente d Septemb er
25. 1962. by Conejo Valley Lodge No .
807. Conejo Valley, at the dedication of
their Temple; and Septemb er 28. 1962, by
Welcom e Lodge No. 255. Lemoore, at the
dedication of their Temple.
Thursda y p.m ...... .. ....... LoUIS LIPSCOMB. P.M .

Oxnard Lodge No. 341. Oxnard, using
gavel presente d O ctober 28. 1961, at the
dedication of their Temple . Also used
were gavels presente d Novemb er 18,
1961. by Orinda Lodge No. 704, Orinda.
at the dedication of Orinda Masonic Temple; and presente d July 14, 1962, by Palmdale Lodge No. 769. Palmdale. at the dedication of Palmdal e Masonic T emple.
Friday a.m ..................... HARRY M . MORRIS, W .M .

Liberty Lodge No. 299, Santa Clara, using gavel presente d October 7, 1961, at
cornersto ne laying of their T emple. Also
used were gavels presente d f anuary 27,
1962, by Ontario Lodge No. 301 . Ontario, at cornerstone laying of their T emple; presented Novemb er 19. 1961, by
Georgeto wn Lodge No. 25. Georgeto wn.
at co rnerston e laying of Georget own

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

297

Methodi st Church; presente d September
22, 1962. by Caledonia Lodge No. 486,
Bakersfield, at cornerstone laying of F oothill H igh School, East Bakersfield.
The Grand M aster acknowl edged receipt of the following :
Key to the City of Taft-Ci vic Center Cornerst one Ceremon y .
Key to the C ity of Long Beach and Universe Clock.
Key to the C ity of Hilo. Hawaii.
Trowels presente d by: Riviera Lodge No. 780.
Liberty Lodge N o. 299.
Ontario Lodge No. 301,
Torranc e Lodg e No. 447, and
City of Buena P a rk.

298

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

ANNUA L ELECTI ON

Announce ment was made of the following appointme nts by the
'
Grand Master-ele ct:
the re-appoin talifornia,
As Trustees of the Masonic Homes of C
Halley.
Leo
James
and
Myers
N.
Phil
ment of Past Grand Master

The Grand Master announce d that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the same.
The R. W. Ira W. Coburn, Doric Lodge No. 216, was elected Grand
Master.
The R. W. Elmer W . Heald , El Centro Lodge No. 384, was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Theodore Meriam, Chico Lodge No. 111. was elected
Senior Grand Warden .
The W. Myron E. Smith. University Lodge No. 394, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master, Mt. Davidson
Lodge No. 481. was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Edward H . Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth Lodge
No. 560. was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Donald G. Campbell, Granada Lodge No. 608, was reelected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-el ect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, The Reverend lvol Ira Curtis, James A. Garfield
Lodge No. 566.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell. North Butte Lodge
No. 230; Harold N. Richards, Washingt on Lodge No. 20; Arthur J.
Kahn. Pa ul Revere Lodge No. 462: Raymond G. Taylor, Libertas Lodge
No. 466: Ralph W. Collins, La Canada Lodge No. 739 ; W. Ben Sorrells, Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
Grand Orator, Charles Becker, Starr King Lodge No. 344.
Assistant Grand Treasurer , Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Verne W. Hendrix, Mount Diablo
Lodge No. 448.
Grand Marshal. Samuel C. Shenk, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Standard Bearer, Gustave W. Klotz, Crescent Lodge No. 45.
Grand Sword Bearer, Raymond J. Berkline, Plumas Lodge No. 60.
Grand Bible Bearer, Fred T. Belton, Porterville Lodge No. 303.
Senior Grand Deacon, Raymond A. Ebbage, Capital City Lodge No.
499.
Junior Grand Deacon. John C. Brown, Pittsburg Lodge No. 429.
Senior Grand Steward, David H. Blakelock, San Clemente Lodge
No. 671.
Junior Grand Steward, Darrell H . Puckett, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
Grand Pursuivan t, Donald J. Shoemake r, Redondo Lodge No. 328.
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, David Wright, Menlo Park Lodge No. 651.

299

*

SUBSEQ UENT APPOIN TMENT S
By action of Grand Lodge the Board of Trustees of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple was reduced from eleven to nine, and the
Board of Directors of the Masonic Club at the University, Berkeley.
was increased from nine to fifteen - see Constituti onal Boards.
At 11 :40 a. m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 : 00 p.m.

301

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

300

PROCE EDING S OP THE.

AFT ERN OON SESS ION- Frida y, Octo ber 12, 1962

At 2: 00 p.m. Gran d Lodge assembled.

INST ALL ATIO N OF OFFI CER S

Maste r. acted
The Most Wors hipfu l John R. Moor e. Past Grand
nted. were
appoi
as Maste r of Cerem onies and the officers, electe d and
Ritual.
the
with
dance
instal led by the retiring Gran d Maste r in accor
with a
r
cesso
prede
his
ed
invest
r
The newly instal led Grand Maste
.
button
Past Gran d Maste r's lapel
from the retirThe Charl es Alber t Adam s la pel pin was transf erred
officers exchair
other
ing to the incum bent Gran d Maste r, and the
chang ed the Arthu r S . Crites lapel pins.
t B. Watts
On behal f of the retiring Grand Orato r. Broth er Rober
led Gran d
instal
newly
the
to
pin
lapel
er
Hous
prese nted the Evere tt
Orato r.
of that office
On behal f of the retirin g Gran d Chap lain, the lapel pin
er Robe rt
Broth
by
ain
Chapl
Grand
was prese nted to the newly installed
m.
emble
that
of
B. Watts . the origin al donor
Past Grand
The Most Wors hipfu l John R. Moor e invest ed the
him with
nted
prese
and
Maste r with the apron of his new design ation
Guy B.
son.
and
Ruby.
wife,
a beaut iful watch as a gift from his lovely
Grand
of
ers
memb
the
from
Mize
Mrs.
to
Mize. Jr. A gift to be tende red
Grand
en.
Warr
.
M
r
Arthu
hipful
Wors
Most
by
Lodge was presen ted
n
ciatio
appre
his
Treas urer. The Junio r Past Grand Maste r evide nced
ns.
ntatio
prese
the
ed
wledg
ackno
by the courte ous mann er in which he
Secre tary. preThe Most Wors hipfu l Edwa rd H . Siems . Gran d
Gr:and Maste r
Past
his
with
Mize
B.
Guy
l
sented Most Wors hipfu
Certil kate.
No. 216,
Wors hipfu l James D . Brow nlee. Maste r of Doric Lodge
f of
behal
on
gavel
a
with
rn
Cobu
.
W
prese nted Most Wors hipfu l Ira
to
sed
promi
rn
Cobu
er
Mast
Grand
which
.
Lodge
the memb ers of his
use throu gh the year and to open Grand Lodge in 1963.
the altar pillow
Most Wors hipfu l Ira W. Cobu rn annou nced that
by and premade
gift
a
was
tion
used during the Annu al Comm unica
of Broth er
wife
the
r,
Frasie
Mary
Mrs.
by
e
sente d to Grand Lodg
388.
Charl es R. Frasie r, a member of Parnassus Lodge No.
was closed
At 3: 15 p.m .. all busin ess being comp leted. Grand Lodge
in due form .

CHA RLES ALBE RT ADA MS
Grand Mast er-1919

Gran d Maste r
Born
November 25, 1867
Mokclu mne Hill. Califor nia

Gran d Secre tary

Died
M <iy 1, 1962

San Francisco. Califor nia

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge was opened in the California Masonic Memorial
T emple to conduct the funeral sen·ice for P ast Grand Master Charles
Albert Adams at I :00 p .m. , Friday, Ma y 4. 1962. The stations were
occupied as follows :

EULOGY

Grand Mas tcL .................................. ARTHUR M . WAR REN
Deputy Grand Master ............................... .IRA W. COBURN
Senior Grand Warden ............... ............. ELBERT W. DAVIS
Junior Grand Warden ........................ RAYMO ND G. TAYLOR
Grand Treasurer .................................... PAUL A. PFLUEGER
Grand Secretary ....... ... .......... .................. EowARD H. SIEMS
Grand Lecturer .......... ...................... DONALD G. CAMPBELL
Grand Chaplain . ..... ................................ JOHN A. COLLINS
G rand Orator............................................ MYRON E. SMITH
A ssistant Grand Treasurer.. ............ .. VERNE W. HENDRI X
A ssistant Grand Secretarg .... ............ H ENRY D. OLIPHANT
Grand Marsha/... ....................................... CYRIL L. WEEKS
Grand Standard Bcarer.. .. .................... CHARLES L. FOSTER
Gra nd Sword Bcarer ............. ................. SAMUEL G. CLARK
Grand Bible Bcarcr ... ....................... EDWARD C. Lo H MEYER
Senior Grand Deacon .................................. E. Ross BAYLIS
Junior Grand Deacon ......... .... ..... U LYSS ES G. PATROPULOS
Senior Grand Steward.................. ... ... ...... HARRY K. WmuP
Junior Grand Steward......... ............ .ADOLPH H. FRANZEN
Grand Pursui uant ...... ................ BERTRAM C. VON KoNSKY
Grand Organis t.. .................................... HAROLD MUELLER
Grand Tiler.................................................. DAVID WRIGl lT
The Eulogy. as given by Myron E. S mi th , is appended to this ac ~
coun t.
HONO RAR Y P ALLBEARERS

All Past Grand Masters. members of the Board of Trustees of the
M asonic Homes. S uperin tendents of the Homes at Union City and
Covina. and the Chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board .
ACTIVE PALLBEARER S

P as t M asters of Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San Francisco.
The interment was private -

for members of the family only.

303

CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS
By Myron E. Smith
"Let you r light so s hine before men .
that they may see your good works.
and glorify your Fa th er which is in
- M atthew 5 : 16
hea,·en. "
This beautiful pa ssage. found recorded in the fifth chapter. the
sixteenth verse, of the Book of M att hew. symbolizes for us the guiding
principle in the life of the Hreat and good man, whose memory we here
honor. Truly. the brilliant light held aloft for us by Charles Albert
Adams has lighted the pathway of our lives- just as his memory will
ever be a guiding star for our children and our children's children. And
through his good works . our Fa ther who is in heaven has indeed been
glorified. If. as we are taught, man is a ray of the divine intellect. surely
this man has been many rays of the divine intelligence.
Light comes from God . The wise ma n knows it is God who makes
light in our lives. Charles Albert Adams understood this. along wi th
George Matheson , the blind poet, who wrote.
" O . light that followest all my ways
1 y ield my flickering torch to thee .
My heart restores its borrowed ray
That in thy sunshine's blaze. its day
May brighter, fairer be."
John Wesley said that every ma n should be possessed of the lighted
mind, the warm heart and the helping hand. Charles Albert Adams was
such a man. By his lighted mind. he lifted us up to a new sphere of
intellectual and spiritual independ ence. His warm heart taught us the
real meaning of true friendship. His helping hand demon strated for
us how every ma n should pour forth comfort and consolation into the
hearts of the distressed. the afflicted and the destitute.
So it is that we hono r a radia nt and victorious personality. What a
glorious life his has been! H ow inspiring is his biography! Carlyle said:
" Biography is the only true history. " Emerson said: "There is properly
no history- only biography." In a very real sense , the biog raph y of
C harles Albert Adams is mu ch of the his tory of this grea t city . sta te
and nation . the public schools a nd Masonry.
Our beloved brother, who has meant so much to us . was born o f
pioneer parents, Amos and Regina Adams, in the California "Mother
Lode" town of Mokelumne Hill . in Calaveras County, on November
25, 1867- more than 94 yea rs ago.
His father was the judge of the old Eleventh Judicial District, comprised of Amador, Calaveras and El Dorado Counties. In 1875 the

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

family moved to San Francisco. where he e\'er after resided, except for
a short time in Oakla nd.
H e received his education in the public sc hools of San F rancisco
and Oakland, and in 1887 was graduated from the University of California's Hc:stings College of Law and admitted to the practice of law.
The devoted protagonist of public education. he was for several years
chairman of the sec ti o n of education in the Commonwealth Club . an d
for many years a me mber of th e executive comm ittee of the Public Education Society of San Francisco. He was a former member of the State
Board of Education <111d. as chairman of its text- book commi ttee took
a promin ent part in the controvery and subsequent litigation with reference to the adoption of text-books and which ultimately resulted in a
decision by the Supreme Court. whic h confirmed and definitely established the right of the State Board to adopt such text-books as '~:ere
believed by its members to be bes t- even though they were not, and
could not be printed by the State Printer.
A member of the Order of Coif. he was at the time of his death
the oldest practicing a ttorney in the City and County of San Francisco.
and one of the oldest active attorneys in th e United States. honored
and respected as one of the great leaders in his profession in his na ti\'e
California.
His Masonic caree r has been an unusu ally long and active onein our Grand Lodge probably unique. because there has not been a
year since he entered Grand Lodge as Jun ior Warden o f Excelsio r
Lodge N o. 166. in 1907. that he has not been either a member of an
importa nt committee or board. or an officer of Grand Lodge .
A s a great M aso n. he will be especially remembered for two superb
achievements: The institution, while Grand Master, in 1920 of the
Annua l Public Schools Week in California ( significantly being observed throughout the State during the week of his death) and service
of more than four d ecades as a Trustee of M asonic H omes of California.
A teacher of teac hers, he recognized that the public school is the
people's school. a \'ital keystone in the structure and preservation of
our way of life- the g reat unifying force in America, a bright light in
a world shadowed by the dark clouds of wa r ;rnd the uncertainties of
an uneasy peace. Because of his influence, the citizenry of our state
will not countenance a ny jeopardy to our public schools.
It has been said th<:1t to truly live is to live in the lives of others.
"Charlie", as all of us affectionately knew him, was twelve years older
than the average age ( 82) of the residents of our Home for the Aged .
During his more than forty years on the Homes Board, .over •4,00~ app.licants received aid a nd assistance from the Board. guided by his wise
counsel and advice. Three generations older than the children in our
Home for Children. his interest in young people never diminis hed and
he has been the friend and counselor of hundreds of graduates who have

loved him dea rly. How glo riously our Brother truly lives in the lives of
others!
Charles Albert Adams knew that the glo1y of life on this earth is
achievemen t in growth of character an d in service to our fellow men.
He never ceased to grow and he never stopped serving his fellow man .
Youth. he understood so well, is not a time of life. It is a state of
mind . You th may be in a man of ninety- as it was in "Charlie"- mo re
than in a boy of nineteen. Men do not grow old from years bu t by desertion of their ideals. Charles Albert Adams never deserted his ideals.
He had an unmatched sense of moral courage.
A kindly. gracious gen tleman. he loved his home. H is love and
devotion to his wife, who predeceased him. were tender and beautiful
beyond words to express. To his son a nd daugh ter a nd grandchildren .
whom he dearly loved, we extend our warmest and deepest sympathy.
It was Plato who said : "Those having torches will pass them on to
others." F or the Greek runner o f old. to cross the finis h line was not
enough. He was the winner who first reached the goal with the torch
in his hand s till lighted. In the long wa r between the good and the evil ,
between light and darkness. between knowledge a nd ignora nce, Charles
Albert Adams has fought the good fight and won- with the torch of
his faith still s hining brig htly. He has passed it on to us. A s with one
illustrio us in Masonry long ago, no one man can ever replace him or the
lig ht he bore. It will require all the light of many men to approach tha t
of this great servant of God and man.
In the search for truth, Charles A lbert Adams never ceased climbing
up the mountai~side toward that light which radiates from H im w hose
holy name ligh ts our Lodge. We shall th ink of him as ever climbing.
ever advancing in wisdo m, streng th and beauty of character, in the
Great Grand Lodge on High where, as St. John. the Patron Saint of
l'vtasonry,recorded:
"There s hall be no night there; and
they need no candle. neither light of
the sun: for the Lord give th them
light: an d they shall reign for ever
-Revelations 22 : 5
and ever."

305

GRAND l.ODGE O F CALIFORNIA

CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
Grand Ma ster -

Born
Ma rch 13. 1873
Castrovill(>, Cali fornia

1929

Died
OctobN 22 , 1962
San Fran cisco, Ca lifornia

307

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

Grand Lodge was opened in the California Masonic Memorial Temple to conduct the funeral service for Past Grand Master Charles M.
Wollenberg at 2 :00 p.m .. Wednesday, October 24. 1962. The stations
w ere occupied as follows:

EULOGY

Grand 111aster. ....................... ............ ARTHUR M. WARREN
Deputy Grand Master. ........ ...................... .IRA W. COBURN
Senior Grand Warden ......... ......... EDGAR V . STEWART, JR.
Junior Grand Warden ................................ PHIL N. MYERS
Grand Treasurer. ............. ................ HENRY D. OLIPHANT
Grand Secretarg ...................... ................ EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Lecturer...................... ..........ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Gran.J. Chaplain ........................................ CHARLES BECKER
Grand Orator.. ..................................L. HAROLD ANDERSON
Assistant Grand T reasurer.. ................ PAUL A. PFLUEGER
Assistant Grand Secretarg................ VERNE W. HENDRIX
Grand Marshal.. .................................... SAMUEL C. SHENK
Grand Standard Bearer ..... ... ......... EDWARD C. LOHMEYER
Grand Sword Bearer .............................. SAMUEL G. CLARK
Grand Bible Bearer.. ............................ CHARLES L. FosTER
Senior Grand Deacon .................. CARLTON H. RoTHBLUM
funior Grand Deacon ........... ....... ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS
Senior Grand Steward .............................. HARRY K. WmuP
Ju nior Grand Stewa rd.................. .... ADOLPH H . FRANZEN
Gra nd Pursuiuant ...... .. .... .......... BERTRAM C. VON K o NSKY
Gra nd Organist ........... ....... ...................... LUDWIG ALTMAN
Grand Tile r ........... ....................................... DAVID WRIGHT
The Eulog y. as gi ve n by P ast Grand M as ter Alfred F. Breslau er.
is a pp e nded to t his acco unt.
HONORARY PALLBEAR ERS
All Past Grand M asters, me mbers o f the Boa r d of Trustees of the
M asonic Homes, Superinte nd ents of the H omes a t Unio n City and
Covina , a nd th e Chairman of the M<1sonic H omes Endowment Boa rd.
A CTIVE PALLBEARE RS
P ast M asters of S tarr Ki n g Lodge No. 344, San Fra n cisco.
The in te rme nt w <1s pri vate -

for mem be rs o f th e famil y only.

309

CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
By Alfred F. Breslauer
We meet this afternoon, in accordance with Masonic custom, to offer
up to the memory of Charles M. Wollenberg, a tribute of our love and
affection. The beautiful ritual of the service carries a message that is
warming and complete. Yet. in addition, let us remember together some
of the actual incidents of his life which have in turn enriched the lives
of all who w ere privileged to know him.
Some of us assembled here are attired in the habilaments of a Mason.
However, his activities and influence were not circumscribed by any
one affiliation, and all men. regardless of sect or creed, w ere the recipients of his goodness and understanding.
The records tell us that Charles Wollenberg was born in Castroville, Monterey County, California, on March 13. 1873. almost 90 years
ago, the son of pioneers who had come to California in 1858; that when
he was tw o years old, the Wollenberg family moved to Prescott. Arizona.
where he attended grammar and high school. In 1891 the family returned
to California. whereupon young Charles attended the University of
California, graduated in 1894 with a degree in pharmacy. and obtained
his certificate which he proudly held until the day of his passing.
But the statistics cannot tell us of the early influence of Masonic
teachings in his life. through his father, Louis Wollenberg. who was a
member of Confidence Lodge No. 203 in Castroville and had served v.s
Secretary of the' Lodge; or of how many years later, after Charles became Grand Master. ''Wollenberg Night" was a frequent event in
Confidence Lodge. attended by many members of the Wollenberg family
a nd their ho st o f fri end s in that a r ea .
The sta tistics say th at Charles lived in Prescott, Arizona , from the
age of 2 until 18, but we mu st dra w upon o ur o w n pow ers o f insight to
compr ehend th e influ en ce w hi ch th is immedia te a n d persona l conta ct
with the p io neer West h ad in moulding his life o f limitless energy an d
courageous purpose-indeed, what it mean t to this boy to live a t a n
isola ted military o utpost , o ver 100 miles from a railroad , in th e he a rt o f
the Indian country, w h e re h e actu ally lived through the experi ences
a bo u t w hi ch the youth of toda y can only read . His stories of this per iod
of his life were legion. a nd h e was never happier than whe n r elating
some expe rience with the India ns or another episode in the life o f the
expand ing Wes tern Frontie r.
After he became a prac ticin g pha rmacist in S a n Fra ncisco. h e married Romild a J udell in 1899. and their happy life of more th a n sixty
y ear s tog ether was insp iring to all w h o knew t h em . The combined W o llenbe rg-Judell family wer e a la rge. d evoted g roup. w ho looked u p on hi m
as "Pa pa Char lie" a n d upon Mrs. Wollenber g as ''Mother Roe."

311

PROC EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

Even had he not been called into public service. but remained the
quietly practicing pharmacist, his was a dist inct and impelling personality which would have asse rted itsel f whatever course his activities
might have taken .
He was so strong ly motivated by his own deep-felt convictions of
what was right and what \\'aS wrong in the realm of human rela tions,
and so courageously asserted these pri nciples which he believed to be
just. that as the years went by more than a few people in high places
became familiar with his dau ntless spirit and firmness .
H e had a profound insight into human nature. He was a great and
sympathetic soul, and as we say in our installation service, he was truly
one "to whom the burdened heart could pour out its sorrow, on e to whom
distress could pre fer its suit. one whose hand was guided by jus tice and
whose heart was expanded by benevolence."
That he was literally catapulted into a life of public service to help
and comfort the dis tressed. is a matter of record in the annals of San
Francisco history. One day, A pril 17, 1906, he was peacefull y carr ying
on his professio n as a pharmacist on Sutter S treet. On the follow ing
day the earthquake struck this area. followed by disastrous fire. Twentyfour hours later, General Funston swore in Charles Wollenberg as
chief civilian aide to the S urgeon General of the United States Army
of San Francisco Earthquake Relief. Then followed more than forty
years of outstanding service in relief and welfare activities: first. two
years with the Red Cross. then from I 908 to 1943 he was su perintendent of the Laguna Honda H ome. and concurrently with this post held
that of D irector of Institutions for the City and County of San Francisco. One cannot begin to estimate the countless number of persons
receiving assistance and comfort during the span of years when these
institutions were under his direction. A man of more average energies
and enthusiasm might have been satisfied to expend such energies and
enthusiasm on one job. But one job at a time was never the pattern of
Charles Wollenberg's activities. either before or after his so-called
" retirement" in 1943. In fact, he had ha rd ly become aware that he had
reti red, when Earl Warren. then the newly-e lected Governor. appointed
him State Director o f Public Welfare. a post whic h he held for five years.
Du ring a ll the years, no one who ever sought his guidance . counsel
or assistance was turned away if it was within hi s power to help. If
anyone could be called a "humanitarian," surely it was Cha rles Wollenberg. in every sense. For one example we see his intense interest in the
Masonic Home for the Aged at Decoto. Charles Wollenberg was an
active member o f the Board of Trustees for more than fo r ty years. served
as President of the Board . a nd continued on as T rustee Eme ritus until
his death. During the Annua l Communication of Grand Lodge. held
only two weeks ago, the hospital a t the H ome was re-dedicated. and it
w ill be known as the C harles Wollenber g Memorial Hospital.

Charles Wollenberg loved and understood young people too. The
Masonic H omes of California. of which the H ome a t Decoto is a part,
also includes the H ome for Children at Covina , Ca lifornia. He was
proud o f the Covina Home a nd the children there were his particular
interest. During the many years of his active guidance. he made it a
point to know personally every boy and girl residing there. Many were
the hours he spent in helping these young people plan and prepare for
their futu re. He gave much of his time and effort in helping them choose
a career. and he found his reward in the joy that he felt when in later
yea rs they came to see him. successfu l business or professional men and
women. or happy housewives and mothers as the case might be. T hese
young people will be a living memorial to his accomplishments in the
field of yout h gu idance .
His contacts with the civic life of the community and this state are
hund red-fold. His years in retirement were not only marked by holding
the distinguished post of State Director of Public W elfare, but also
by his activities as executive director of the He brew Nursing H ome. a
director of Mt . Zion H ospital. one of the founde rs of Maimonides Health
Center , a governor of the Commonwealth Club . and numerous other
orga nizations.
His love for his fellow-man was clear in his response to the idea ls of
fraterna l service. The earthquake o f April. 1906. not only had its significance in setting him forth on a lifetime of public service. but gives us
an interesting anecdote in connection with his Masonic career. H e joined
Starr King Lodge No. 344, on March 14. 1906, and received his Second
Degree on Aprif 11th. He was scheduled to receive his Third Degree
on the evening of A pril 18th. That nigh t. he a rrived a t the Lodge , after
walking a great distance, only to find that the rear wall of the hall was
down and the roof gone! He finally received his Third Degree when
the building was restored on May 30. 1906. His great interest in Starr
King Lodge resulted in his appointment to the line of officers, and in
1913 he was elected as Master o f the Lodge. Thereafter he became
interested in Grand Lodge activities, being appointed to the Board of
T rustees of The Masonic Homes in 19 17. He was elected as Junior
Grand Warden in due course . and served a s Grand Master of Masons
in California in 1929. His year will long be remembered as one in which
he traveled throughout the entire state, visiting many small Lodges in
the mountains and Mother Lode Country-Lodges which had not had
a visit from a Grand Master for many years. His friendliness and gen uine interest in Masonry endeared him to the many thousands of Masons
who had the opportunity to meet h im persona lly on his travels.
He gained grea t pleasure when he pa rticipated in the Degree work
at the time his sons, Albert, H arold an d Ralp h. were made Master
Masons. He had particular gratification when he was also privileged

310

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to participate in the ceremonies in which his grandsons, Albert Wollenberg, Jr. and Harold Wollenberg, Jr., received their Third Degrees.
He was active in the Scottish Rite, serving as Venerable Master of
the San Francisco Lodge of Perfection and Master of the Consistory,
and in 1925 was coroneted with the 33rd Degree.
His was truly a distinguished Masonic career, and one in which he
put into actual practice the beautiful lessons and high principles of the
Order.
Yes-Charles Wollenberg has a host of witnesses to the fact that he
was a very special man. He gave of himself. all of his life, those qualities
of mind and heart that make life for those who knew him more significant-more worthwhile.
Concerning our personal friendship. I will not elaborate. To me the
strong affection, the high regard, the invaluable assistance, the spiritual
inspiration are sacred things, not to be talked of but rather as the years
go on to recall to the mind's eye, to sense again and to say to myselfmy life has been better and richer for the privilege of knowing him.

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

313

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
Budget for 1962~63 ................................................................................ 314
Grand Lodge Audit ................................................................................ 318
Audit of Annual Returns, 1962 ............................................................ 334
Masonic Homes Audit .......................................................................... 336
Memorial Temple Audit. ....................................................................... 373
Statistica l:
Residents at Union City .................................................................. 380
Children at Covina Home................................................................ 389
Number of Residents, U nion City and Covina .............................. 391
Per Capita Cost, U nion City and Covina...................................... 391
Contributions to Special Reserves.................................................. 392

314

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BUDGET 1962-1963
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries ---···--·-··--···-············-····--······--·-······················-·······-$ 91,400.00
Grand Lodge Offices Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense....... . 18,000.00
3,000.00
Audit ····-·······-···-·························-·······································
250.00
Grand Treasurer ..............................................................
4,500.00
Postage and Express ......................................................... .
4.500.00
Telephone and Telegraph ......................................... .
4,600.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ..................... .
500.00
Investment Counsel ·················································--·-·····
Retirement Pension Plan 7,200.00
Grand Lodge Office Employees............................... .
Retirement Pension Plan 9,700.00
Grand Lodge Agencies Employees ......................... .
1,000.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits .............. ...... .
765.00
Supplemental Pension ····-··-··············································
TOTAL .................................................................... $115.115.00
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication .................................................... $ 16.500.00
5.000.00
Conferences ..................................................................... .
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense.......................... 10.000.00
850.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler................................... .
Grand Master's Travel. Secretarial
and Miscellaneous Expense..................................... . 12.000.00
6,000.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges ....................................... .
Representatives' Mileage ·····················-·········-·················· 37.300.00
Printing ........... ................................................................... 26,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer ..........................................................
3,200.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery............................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense..................... . 14.000.00
900.00
Retirement Pay ..................................................................
3,700.00
Veteran Buttons ................................................................
3,700.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous ............................................. .
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges .................... 11,000.00
None
Fidelity Bond ( 3~year period) ................................. .
500.00
Miscellaneous ················-··--·······-·····························-·
2,700.00
Grand Lodge Regalia........................................................
TOTAL ....................................................................$153,950.00

315

APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee ·············-··-·············-·······-·-···-···········$ 4 .000.00
Board of Control.. ............................................................. .
2,000.00
Charters Committee ................................ ......................... .
750.00
Columbia Temple Committee ............................................
1,200.00
750.00
Constitution Observance Committee ................................
500.00
De Molay Committee ........................................................
E mployment Bureaus ........................................................ 12,3 12.00
Endowment Board ............................................................ 16.000.00
1,200.00
History Committee ............................................................
2.000.00
Committee on Masonic Education ................................... .
3.000.00
Lodge Financing Committee............................................
Memorial Temple - Campaign Expense ....................... .
2.500.00
l ,500.00
Committee on Public Schools........................................... .
Boards of Relief 50.00
Reimbursement for Sojourners ................................. .
750 .00
Committee on Commercialism ......................................... .
300.00
Sojourners Committee ..................................................... .
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley ................................................................... . 19, I 00.00
Los Angeles ....................... ...................................... . 20,530.00
Code Commission ..............................................................
150.00
1,600.00
Grand Lodge Legal Expense ............................................
Investment Committee ......................................................
500.00
Relief Fund - Grand Master........................................ ..
6.250.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries...... ............................
6.460.00
Committee on Masonic Information ................................
1.000.00
Library Commission ......................................................... .
1,125.00
Committee on Old M<:!sonic H all - Los Angeles ........... .
1,000.00
TOTAL .................................................................... $106.527.00
RECAPIT ULATION

Administrative and Office.................................................. $145,115.00
General Expense .............................................................. 153.950.00
Appropriations ·····-··················································-··-······ 106,527.00
GRAND TOTAL .................................................... $105,892.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

316
E STIMATED INCOME

Dues from Lodges. Fees for Degrees. etc ....................... $331,920.00
Income from Investments, Interest.................................... 34,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes E ndowment Board Expense................................... ... 16,000.00
Payment from M asonic Homes Secretaria l and Other Services........... ....................... 24.000.00
TOT AL ESTIMATED INCOME ........................$405,920.00
TOTAL APPROPRIA TION S AND
BUDGETED ITEMS .................................. .. 405.892.00
ESTI M ATED SURPLUS .............................................. $

28.00

C APITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Contemplated purchases including typewriters.
fi ling cabinets. library equipment, and
miscellaneous other equipment.. ................................$

4.100.00

BUDGET

ONE QUARTER -JULY 1, 1963-SEPTE MBER 30, 1963
A DMINISTRATIVE AND OFFIC E

Salaries .............................................................................. $ 25 .000.00
Grand Lodge O ffices 4,500.00
Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense ........
75.00
Grand Treasurer................................................................
1,500.00
Postage and Exp ress ........................................................
1,200.00
Telephone and T elegraph ......................... .......................
1.800.00
....................
Taxes
t
Social Security and Unemploymen
275.00
....................
Benefits
Medical
Employees
Lodge
Grand
2,500.00
Audit ..................................................................................
TOTAL .................................................................... $ 36,850.00
GENERAL EXPEN S E

An nual Communication ......................... ........................... $
Conferences ......................................................................
G rand Lodge Officers' Travel E xpense ......................... .
Printing .................................................. ........................... .
Rit ualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer ................................................. .........
Inspectors' Aprons a nd Stationery ..........................
Ritual Committee an d Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ....................

8.000.00
1.000.00
3,000.00
5,000.00

Re tirement Pay ..................................................................
V eteran Buttons ................................................ ................
Supplies and Miscellaneous ........................... .................
Insurance - Miscellaneous ..............................................

317

225.00
1,000.00
1, 100.00
500.00

TOTAL .............•...................................................... $ 21 .775.00
A PP ROPRIATIONS

Relief F und - Grand M aster ..........................................$
Activities Committee ........................................................
Board of Control ................................................. ...............
Charters Committee ..........................................................
C olumbia Temple Committee ..........................................
Constitution Obser vance Committee ..............................
DeMolay Committee ........................................................
Endowment Boar d ........................ ......................... ...........
History Committee ................................................... .........
Committee on Masonic Education ........................ ......... .
Lodge Financing Committee ........................................... .
Memorial Temple - C ampaign Expense ....................... .
Committee on Public Schools ........................................... .
Committee on Commercialism ..........................................
Code Commission ····················---·································--·-··
Investment C ommittee ..................................................... .
Committee on Maso nic Cemeteries ................................
Sojou rners' C ommittee ................................................. .... .
Committee on Masonic Information ········----············ ·--·····
Library Commission ................................................. .........
Committee on Old M asonic Hall , Los A ngeles ..............

1,900.00
2,000.00
500.00
200.00
350. 00
200.00
100.00
2,000.00
350.00
500.00
750.00
300.00
400.00
200.00
50.00
150.00
1,000.00
50.00
250.00
300.00
300.00

TOTAL ................................................ ....................$ 11.850.00
RECAPIT U LATION

150.00
800.00

Administrative and Office ............................... ............... .. $ 36.850.00
General Expense ................................................. ............. 21 ,775.00
Appropriations ........................ ......................... ................. 11 .850.00

1.000.00

GRAND TOTAL .................................................. $ 70,475.00

318

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE AUDIT
LYBRAND. Ross BRos. &. MONTGOME RY
Ct:RTIFIEO PUl!LIC A CCOUNT'A.NTS
ONE

BusM

STFLE£'r

S AN FRAN C I S CO 4
Y U!i:ON' 1•1.l U

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

We attach the following for your informatio n:
Exhibit A - Statement of assets, liabilitie s,
and fund balance
Exhibit B - Statement of revenue received and
expenses di sburse d
Schedule 1 - TnvestJTien ts
Sc hedule 2 - Contributi on s received from Lodges
Sche dule 3 - Admini strat ive and offic e e xpen s e
Sche du le 4 - Genera l expe nse
Sche dule 5
Appropria tions
Two Pages - Notes to financial statements

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of t he
State of California ,
California Masonic Memorial Temple,
1111 California Street,
San Francisco 8, California .
We have examined the statement of assets, Liabilitie s
and fund balance of The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California as of June 30, 1962,
and the related statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed for the year then ended. Our examinatio n was made in
accordance with generally accepted a uditing standards, and
accordingl y included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circW11stai ices.
In our opinion, the accompanyi ng statements present
fairly the asse ts, liabilitie s, and fund balance of The .Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State
of California at June 30, 1962, arising primarily from cash
transactio ns, and the revenue received and expense disbursed by
i t for the year then· ended," on a basis consistent with that of
the preceding year.

August 10, 1962

319

320

GRAND LODGE, F.

&

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

A S S E TS:

$222,367.88

Cash on hand and in banks
$ 72, 742.26
139, 707.01
310,690.52

523,139.79

CALIFORNI~

47,339.76
46,732.08
425.00
1,410.00
95,906 .84
$84,!.. 414. 51

Total assets
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE:

.L iabilities:
Contributions of initiates, held for the
Endowment Fund of the Geo r ge Washington
Masonic National Memorial - Note 4
$ 4,851.00
Advance payments by Lodges on annual returns
4,245.00
Co ntributions of employees of Grand Lodge
328.92
and its age.n ciee to pension fund
188.50
Payrol.l taxes withheld from employees
35,168.22
Reserve for "California Freemason" - Note 6
$ 44, 781.64
Total liabilities

JU1venue:
contributions received from Lodges Schedule 2
Less: Contributions received f o r
special purposes:
Masonic Homes o f California
Californ ia Mason ic Memorial Temple
George Wash ington Maso nic National
Memorial

$918, 506. 31

$421,786.00
298,215.00
6,473.00

21r061. 35
5,222.87
1 0,227.50

Purch ase of supplies for resale
Sale of supplies h eld f or resale

29,519.97
22, 724 . 58

726 , 4 7 4 .00
600.00
250 .00
1,484.57

36, 511. 72
(6,795 .J9 )

Correspondence cOITWTlittee - Expenditures
of publishing "California Freemason"
Subscriptions for "California Freemason"

63 , 712.43
62,587.10
{1 , 125.33 )

Return by Grand Kaster Alfred F . Breslauer
of unused expense appropriation

33.79
35l , 729.79

Total revenue

Expe nse:
Administrative and off i ce expense Schedule 3
General expense - Schedule 4
llppropriations - Scheclu le 5
Less: Reimbur!lemen t f rom
Maso n ic Homes of California:
Secretarial and other
services
Endo wment Board expense

Transfer to Reserve for
•california Fre e mason", authorized at 1961 Communication of
Grand Lodge - Note 5
$ 15,03 4.82
Coat of funding pas t service
pension costs of Reti re ment
Income Plan, authorized at
1961 Connunication of Grand
Lodge - Note 6
12 7 , 898. 00

143,715 . 1 7
145,726.72
83.523.87
372,965. 76

$24,000.00
13 ( 996. 32
37,996.32

Net expense
Balance

334 , 969 . 44
16,760.35

Gain on sales of securities held for investments

142,932 . 82
775,573 .49

Total l i abilities and fund balance

$1 ,047 , 244.43

Fees for charters and dispensations
Rents from Columbia Temple
Revenue from i n surance premiums advanced
f o r Lodges
Revenue from investJnents and savings:
Dividends on stock
Interest on bonds
Interest on bank accounts

LeS!il:

Add, net re venue for year ended
June 30, 1962 - Exhibit D
Balance , JUne 30, 1962

EXHIBIT B

32 0, 770, 41

Other assets:
Furniture and fixtures (at cost) - Note 2
Insurance premiums advanced for Lodges Note 3
Refundable deposit with airline
Sundry receivables

Fund balance:
Balance, JUne 30, 1961

GRAKD LODGE, F. & A. M. OF

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED AND EXPENS ES DISBURSED
For the fis cal year e n ded June 30, 1962

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES; AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962

Investments (at cost) Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $ 66,980 .00)
Preferred stock {market value $125,510.00)
Common stock (marke t value $361,208.38)
Total (market value $553,698.38)

321

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Net revenue for year ended June 30 , 1962 Exhibit A

21,059.38
796 ,632.87
$~

The accompanying n ote·s are a n integ ral part of this !l ta t ement .

4,299.03
$

21 , 059 . 30

The accompanying n o t es are an integral part of t-hls statement.

322

323

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE, F.

SCHEDULE l
Page 1

GRAND LOOOE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

&

SCHEDULE 1
Page 2

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

INVES™ENTS
June 30, 1962

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 196 2

COMMON STOCK
BONDS

Shares

f-2!1.

Face Value
$ 2,000
2,0~0

4,600
40,000
25,000

continental Baking Company, 4.375%, 1983
International Minerals & Chemical
Corporation, 3.65%, 1977
Virginian Railway Company, 6%, 2008
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2%, 1990
Total bonds

$

2,00!l . 63
1,925.50
5,129.00
37,990.63
25,687.50

$ 72,742,2§

PREFERRED STOCK

100
45
200
100
100
100
100

Bristol-Myers Co., 3-3/ 4%
Canada Dry Corp., $4.25
Duquesne Lig ht Company, $2.10
](aiser .Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/8%
National Gypsum Co., $4.50
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, 3.60%
No~~~~~n States Power Co. of Minnesota,

200
100
100
100
200
100

Oklahoma Gas & Electric co., 4%
Owens-Illinois Glass, 4%
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.36%
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.SO"J'
Public Service Co . of Indiana, 4.16%
Public Service Electric & Gas company,
$1.40
San Diego Gas & Electric Company, 5.60%
Southern California Edison Company, 4.24%
Southern C~lifornia Edison Company, 4.32"
Sperry Rand Corporation, $4. 5 0
Tidewater Oil Company, $1.20
Union Pacific Railroad Company, 4%

200
200
100
100
100
900

Total preferred stock

$

9,846.80
4 ,517.00
10,625.35
10,351.80
10,492 . 45
9,095.85
10,222.18
3,937.28
11,450.60
10,000.00
8,922.86
5,231.46
3,206.46
4,560.50
5, 110.00
2,178.50
8,524.46
2,842.16
6,591.22

$139. 707.01

100
300
75
112
134
100
300
110

198
460
198
210
544
110
300
200
300
100
200
404
100
102
193
100
100
300
200
219
100
120
100
100
371
102
100
363
100
110
100
321

Allied Chemi c al Corporation
Ameri can Can Co.
Atlantic Refining Company
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Bankers Trust Company of New York
Carrier Corporation
Champion Papers Inc.
Chase Manhattan Bank
Chemical Bank Ne w York Trust Company
Columbia Gas System Inc.
Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Inc.
Continental Insurance Company
Crocker-Anglo National Bank
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
Duquesne Light Company
El Paso Natural Gas Company
Fansteel Metallurgical Corporation
Fireman's Fund Insurance CoMpany
General Motors Corporation
General Publi c Utilities Corporation
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company
Gulf Oil Corporation
Home Insurance Company of New York
Ingersoll-Rand Company
!nl~nd Steel Company
International Harvester Co.
Interstate Power Company
Irving Trust Company (New York )
Liggett and Mye r s Tobacco Company
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company
Montana-Dakota Utilities Co.
Horgan Guaranty Trust Compa ny of New York
Northern States Power Co. of Minnesota
Ohio Oil Company
Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Phillips Petroleum Company
Public Service Electric and Gas Company
S ocony Mobil Oil Company, Inc.
Southern California Ediso n Company
Forward

$

3,642.46
12, 291. 66
2,457.04
5,863.40
2,776,50
3,838.00
8, 725.14
3,268.32
10,370 .38
7,908.28
ll,788 .65
9,462.38
6,804.94
5,519.48
4,179. 50
5 ,439.88
11,038.96
5,144.10
9,246.32
4,592.78
4,755.06
3,888.25
7,2 65 . 50
8,497.45
4 , 541. 50
13,449.63
5 ,239.08
6 ,657. 60
9,000.20
2,385.00
2,946.61
8,447.40
4,114. 9 1
4,390.75
4,190.75
4,343.21
5,882.34
2,744.55
4,856 .61
3,654.25
245,609.24

GRAND LODGE, F. & A, M, OF CALIFORNIA

325

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

324

SCHEDULE l

Page 3

INVESTMENTS

GRAND LODGE F. & A . M. OF Cl\ LIFO RN IA

SCHEDULE 2

Page 1

CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM LODGES

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1962

June 30 , 1962
COMMON STOCK

Grand Lodge Support and Activities:
Master Masons o n June 30,
1961
243 682
Less, members whose
dues were remitted
J,7 51
Members pa id for, per
1961 annual returns
239,931@ $1.25 ea.$299,913,75
Add, adjustments for
previ ous years
754.69
300,668.43
Degrees conferred in
year ended June 30,
1961
20,102@ $1.00 ea. 20,102 . 00 $
Masonic Homes of California contributions:
On Maste r Masons at
June 30, 1961, per 1961
ann~al returns
239,931@ $1.00 ea. 239,931.00
Contribution of initiates
and affiliates @ $25 .00
each:
Final payments for
year ended June 30,
1961,pe r 1961 annual
returns
$ 45,000.00
Installment payments on
1962 annual returns
137,960.00
182,960 .00
Less, adjustments for previous years and refunds
l,105.00 18 1,855. 00
California Masonfc Memori al
Temple contributions:
On Master Masons at
June 30, 1961, per 1961
annual :eturns
239,931@ $1.00 ea. 239,931.00
Contributi ons o f
initiates @ $9.00 each:
Final payment for year
ended June 30, 1961,
per 1961 annual returns
14,598.00
Installme nt payments on
1962 annual returns
44,136.00
58 ,734,00
Les~, adjustme nts for previous years and refunds
450.00 58,284.00
I

Forward
100
105
300
604
200
100
200
100

Southern Pacific Company
Standard Oil Company (California)
Standard Oil Company (New Jersey)
Sunray D.X. Oil Company
Tennessee Gas Transmission Company
United Gas Corporation
United States Steel Corporation
Western Bancorporation
Total co111nOn stock

$24 5, 609. 24
2,481.25
5,082.79
15,042.41
16 , 951.01
4,672.63
3, 537.50
14,279. 69
3,034.00

sgo. 690. 52

Forward

.320,7 70.43

421 ,786.00

298 ,215.00

1 ,040, 771.43

327

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE, F,
SCHEDULE 2
Page 2

GAAND LODGE F. & A, M. OF CALIFORNIA
CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM LODGES
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1962

$1,040, 771.43

Brought forward
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Contributions:
Final payment for year ended
June 30, 1961, per 1961
annual returns
Installment payments on 1962
annual returns
Less, adjustments for previous
years an.d refunds
Total contributions received
from Lodges - Exhibit B

$

l, 622.00

4 904.00
6,526.00

s3.oo

-----~~

6,4ii:oo
$1.047.244.43

A, M. OF CALIFORNIA

&

SCHEDULE 3

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE EXPENSE
For the fiscal years ended June 30 , 1962 and 1961
June 30,
June 30,
1962
1961
Increase
Decrease
compared with previous year
Salaries
$ 91, 221. 34 $ 86,178.90 $5,042.44
Grand Lodge offices,
Temple operation and
maintenance expense
18,000.00
18,000.00
Audit
·3, 000. 00
3,000.00
Postage and express
3, 080. 68
3,925.28
844.60
$
Telephone and telegraph
4,195.50
4, 113.85
81.65
Social security and
unemployment taxes
3,949.41
3, 777.29
172.12
Investment counsel
500.00
500.00
Retirement pension pla,n employees of Grand
Lodge
8,509.74
13,330.21
4,820.47
Retirement pension plan employees of agencies
9,101.84
15,318.94
6,217.10
Supplemental pension Lloyd E. Wilson
1,778 . 35
1,778.35
Grand Lodge employees
medical plan
378.31
378.31

$143 715 .17 $148,144,47 $7,452,87 $1i 1 002 1 11
I

~

COlllpared with budget
·Salaries
$ 91,221.34 $
Grand Lodge of fices,
Temple operation and
maintenance expense
18,000.00
Audit
'
3,000.00
Grand treasurer
Postage a,nd express
3,080.68
Telephone and telegraph
4,195 . 50
Social security and
employment taxes
3,949.41
Investment counsel
500 .00
R.e tiremerit pension plan employees of Grand
Lodge
8,509.74
Retirement pension plan employees of agencies
9,101.84
Supplemental pension Lloyd E. Wilson
1,778.35
Grand Lodge employees
medical plan
378.31

Budget

91,400.00

$

178.66

18,000.00
3,000.00
250.00
4,500.00
4,500.00

$

250.00
1 ,.419,32
304.50

4,000.09
500.00

50.59

13,000.00

4,490.26

13,800.00

4,698.16

4,476.00

2,697.65

1,000.00

621.69

$l43,7l 5 . l7 $158,426.00

$14, 710.~3

328

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PRO CEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE, F,

&

SCHEDULE 4
Page l

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

GENERA L EXPENS E

1961
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1962 and

June JO,

June 30,

1962

1961

Compar ed with previo us year
$ 15,375 .69 $
Annual Commu nication
3,871.4 8
Confer ences
Grand Lodge office rs'
8,901. 94
travel expens e
Grand Organi st and
850 . 00
Grand Tiler
Grand Master 's travel ,
secre ta rial, and
10, 000.00
miscel laneou s expens e
Investr nent counse l for
6,000.0 0
lodges
Grand Maste r's portra it
J,439.8 5
expens e
36,046 .69
Repres entativ es' mileag e
23,352 .44
Printin g
Ritual istic expens e:
600.00
Grand Lectur er
Inspec tors' aprons
3,131.5 7
and station ery
Ritual Co11111ittee and
inspec tors' confer ence and travel
13,426 .22
expens e
900.00
Retirem ent pay
3, 532 .05
Vetera n button s
Suppli es and raiscel 3. 256.49
laneou s
Insura nce:
Worlon en's coaipen sa10,343 .15
tion for lodges
2,086.8 4
Fideli ty
612.31
Miscel laneou s

Increa9 e

Decrea se

13,888 .91 $ l,486.7 8
$1,121 .05
4,992. 53
l,505.7 8

10,407 .72
050.00
10,000 .00
5,000. 00

1,000.0 0

18 5.86
35,439 .24
23,127 .85

J,253.9 9
607.45
224.59

600.00
3,096. 98

13,805 .29
900.00
3,238.9 8

34.59

379.07
29 3 .07
358.34

3,614.8 3
8,957. 71

1,385.4 4

346.99

2,352.1 6

$145, 726. 72 $138,4 52.89 $10,63 8 . 07

$3,364 .24

GRAND LODGE, F.

&

329

A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

GENERAL EXPENSE
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1962

Actual
Budget
Compar ed with budget
Annual Col!Vll unicatio n
$ 15,375 .69 $ 15,500 .00
Confer ences
3,871, 48
5,ooo. oo
Grand Lodge office rs'
travel expens e
8,901. 94
10,000 .00
Grand Organ ist and
Grand Tiler
050,00
050.00
Grand Maste r's travel ,
arial,
secret
and
mi see llaneo us
expens e
10, 000.00
10, 000.00
Investm ent counse l
for lodges
6,000.0 0
6,000.0 0
Grand Maste r's
3,439.8 5
portra it expens e
3,500. 00
Repres entativ es'
e
.69
mileag
36,046
35,465 .00
Printin g
23,)52 .44
23,500 .00
Ritual istic expens e:
Grand Lectur er
600.00
600.00
Inspec tors' aprons
and station ery
3, 131.57
3,200. 00
Ritual C011U11ittee and
inspec tors' confer e.nce and travel
expens e
13 ,426.22
14,000 .00
Retirement pay
900.00
900.00
Vetera n button s
3,532.0 5
3,600. 00
Suppli es and •
miscel laneou s
3,256. 49
3,500. 00
Insura nce:
sation
Wo rkmen ' s compen
for l odges
10, 343.15
9,000. 00
Fideli ty and }
.Misc ella neous )
2,699.1 5
4,200 .00
Additi onal author ized
by Grand Master

145,72 6.72

148,81 5 .00
2,000.0 0

$145, 726. 72 $150,8 15 .00

over

Under
$

124.31
1,128. 52
1, 098.06

60.15
$

581.69
147.56

68.43

573. 78
67 .95
243.51
1,343.1 5
1,500.! ,!5
$1, 924.84 $5. 013.12

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SCHEDULK 5
Page 1

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

1962

June 30,
1961

Increase

Decrease

Compared with previous year
68. 74
$ 3,492.65 $ 3,423.91 $
. Activities Committee
32.64
1,370.34
1,402.98
Board of Control
$
00.57
386,52
305.95
Charters Conunittee
Columbia Temple
2,617.10
3,698.00
1,080.90
Committee
constitution observance
359.16
843.74
484.58
Committee
1.87
233.11
234.98
De Molay Committee
11,800.00
11,000.00
Employment Bureaus
145.49
13,850.83
13,996.32
Endo...,,,ent Board
411.68
1,004.25
592.57
History colllll\i.ttee
COltlll.ittee on Masonic
654.27
1,987.82
1,333,55
Education
Lodge Financing
J0.90
2,571.59
2,602.49
Conunittee
Memorial Temple
8,797.07
9,997.07
1,200.00
Campaign Expense
Committee on PUl>lic
500.77
1,548.09
1,047 •. 32
Schools
Boards of Relief Reimbursement for
63.96
577.0l
513.05
Sojourners
Committee on
181.86
520.89
702. 75
commercialism
170.02
71.62
241.64
Sojourners Conunittee
University Clubhouses:
300.00
18,000.00
18,300.00
Berkeley
3,350.00
16,500.00
19,850.00
Los Angeles
Grand Lodge Legal
1,690.39
1,728.50
38.11
Expense
170.39
441.11
270.72
InvestJllent Committee
Relief Fund - Grand
1,000.00
595.00
1,595.00
Master
Committee on Masonic
10.55
10.55
Cemeteries
Committee on Masonic
369.96
621.53
991. 49
Information
523.87
418.67
942.54
Library commission
Commi t tee on relationship between Temple
504, 28
504.28
Asso ciations and Lodges
$83,523.87

$92,200.15

331

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEQULE 5
Page 2

Al?PROPRIATIONS
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1962

APPROPRIATIONS
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1962 and.1961

June 30,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$6 679.63 $15,355.91

compared with budget
Activities Committ ee
Board of Control
Charters Committee
Columbia Temple
Committee
consti tution Observance
Conunittee
De Molay Committee
Employment Bureaus
Endowment Board
History Conmittee
committee on Masonic
: Education
Lodge Fina ncing
Committee
Memorial Temple
'
Campaign Expense
Committee on Public
Schools
Boards of Relief Reimbursement for
·Sojourne rs
Committee on Cormnercial.ism
Sojourners Committee
Universi ty Clubhouses:
Berkeley
Los Angeles
Code Cammi ssion
Grand Lodge Legal
Expense
Invesbnent Connittee
Reli e f .Fund - Grand
Master
Committee on Mason ic
Cemeteries
Conmittee on Mason ic
Information
Library Commission
Connittee on relationshi.P between Temple
Associations and LQ:iges

$ 3,492.65 $ 3,500.00
1,402.98
30~.95

1,500.00
750.00

7.35
97.02
444.05

1,080.90

1,500.00

419.1 0

484,58

515.42
265.02

11,800.00
13,996.32
592.57

1,000. 00
500.00
11,800.00
14,000.00
2,000.00

. 3.68
1,407.43

1,333.55

2,000.00

666.45

2,602.49

3,000.00

39 7 .Sl

234~98

$

1,200.00

1,200.00

1,047.32

1,500.00

452.68

513.05

515.00

1.95

702.75
241.64

750.00
250.00

4 7 .25
8.36

18,300~00

18,300.00
19,850.00
150.00

150 . 00

38.11
270.72

500.00
500.00

461.89
22 9 .28

1,595.00

1, 7 50.00

155. 00

3,775.00

3, 775.00

. 991.49
942.54

1,000.00
1,055.00

B.Sl
112.46

504.28

000.00

295. 72

. $83.523.87 $93.445,00

$9. 921. lJ

1.9,850. 00

GRA ND LODGE OF CAL IFO

PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

332

GRAND LODGE, F.

&

NTS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEME
June 30, 1962

Bas ie of Acc oun ting :
bas is of
are prep ared on the cash bein g
not
The fina nci al stat eme nta
ly
eral
gen
s
tion
sac
epti ons , tran
eip t or paym ent of
acc oun ting with min or exc
r to the time of the rec
June 30 , 196 2, wer e
at
take n into acco unt prio
aid
unp
ls
bil
exp ense
cash . cur ren t ope rati ng
of nom inal arno unt.
l.

Fur nitu re and Fix ture s:
Com tnun icati on app rove d the
Gra nd Lod ge at the 1957ed for furn ishi ngs and equ ipm ent
end
exp
unts
amo
of
tion
ed Jun e 30, 1962
cap ital iza
itio ns dur ing the yea r end
et is not bein g take n
ass
afte r tha t date . Add
this
of
n
atio
reci
Dep
amo unte d to $3,7 74. 5 7 . nci al stat eme nts .
i nto acco unt in the fina

2.

d for Lod ges:
Insu ranc e Prem iums Adv ance
Gra nd
insu ran ce is purc hase d by
Com preh ensi ve liab ilit y er the Lod ges not oth erwi se cov ered
cov
is to
Lod ge on a thre e-year basiums are col lect ed from the cov ered Lod ges ege paid a thre
by such insu ran ce. Prem
Dur ing the yea r Gra nd Lod
is.
rd
bas
on an ann ual prem ium
unt of $66 ,650 .24. One -thi
amo
the
in
e
ranc
insu
the
ing
leav
s
e
Lodg
t
yea r prem ium on this
uen
stit
was bill ed to con
of this , or $22 ,216 .74 , Jun e 30 , 196 2, whi ch wil l be bill ed to the
-64 .
bala nce of $44 ,433 .50 at
and the rem aind er in 1963
Lod ges one -ha lf in 196 2-63

3.

Nat iona l Mem oria l
Geo rge Wash ingt on Mas onic
$6,8 36.0 0
r con trib utio ns tota ling ton Mas onic
yea
t
ren
cur
Dur ing the
the Geo rge Was hing
of
d
Fun
nt
owme
End
the
the Ord inan ces,
wer e rem itte d to
tion , in acco rdan ce with
Nat iona l Memo rial Ass ociaribu tion s on han d at June 30, 1 962 of
cont
f
o
nce
Endo'Wll!ent Fun d duri ng
leav ing a bala
wil l be rem itte d to the
$4,8 51.0 0. Thi s bala nce 196 3.
the yea r end ed June 30,

4.

Free mas on•
Res erve for "Ca lifo rnia
hlll ent of the
tion auth oriz ed the esta blisthe time whe n
nica
!Ullu
COl
The 1958
nst
i
aga
vide
pro
Free mas on" to
Rese rve for "Ca lifo rnia to the prep aym ent of sub sc ript ion s, may not
the cash rece ipts , due
mag azin e. The 1961
ense s of pub lish ing the tran sfer red to the
equ a.l the cur ren t expriat
be
to
.82
,034
$15
ed
from sub scri ptio n•
Com mun icati on app rop
ess of the cash r ece ipts
Thia
rese rve , whi ch was the exc
r end ed Jun e 30 , 196 1.
yea
al
fisc
the
for
ts
ove r pub lica tion cos

s.

NTS,
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATF.ME

A, M. OF CALIFORNIA

333

RNI A

Con tinu ed

Free mas on", Con tinu ed:
Res erve f or •ca lifo rnia
at June 30, 196 2.
rese rve to $35 ,168 .22futu
re issu es of
tran sf7 r incr eas ed the ind
of
ies
cop
ual
ivid
App roxi mat ely 311 ,000 wer e sub scri bed and pai d for at June 30 1962
on•
'
mas
y.
•ca lifo rnia Free
twe nty -fiv e cen ts per cop
at rate s of fift een to

s.

Ret irem ent Income Plan :
ice coa ts
e 30, 196 2, the pas t serv
Dur ing the yea r ende d Jun
d Lod ge and ita age ncie s und er
Gran
of
es
loye
emp
ing
, wer e paid
for the . par tici pat
, amo unti ng to $12 7,89 0.00
the Ret irem ent Inco me Planion of Gra nd Lod ge at ·its 1961
izat
hor
aut
the
pursua~t t~
coim nun icat ion.

6.

Con ting ent Lia bili ty:
of Cal ifor nia
4, . 195 5, the off ice rs six
San.
Under date of O~toberpro
.
sory not es with
mis
ed
sign
ple
Tem
l
izat ion
.Mason~c Mem oria
00,0 00.0 0. Und er aut hor ran tor of
$3,0
of
l
tota
a
for
ks
gua
the
me
Fra ncis co ban
beca
ge
Lod
nd
mun icat ion , Gra
bee n redu ced to
gi ve n at the 1953 Comaid
bala nce on thes e not es had
unp
thes e note s . TheJune
.
1962
30,
$1, 313 ,790 .00 at
7.

334

335

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

AUDIT OF ANNUAL RETURNS

GRA ND LODGE , F. & A . M. OF CALI FORNIA

EXIHBl T A

STATEMENT OF 1962 ANNUAL RETURNS
LYBRAND. Ro$$ BROS. C ~!o~TG OMF:RY

Total Per
1962 Annu al
Returns

Period Whe n Rec eiv ed
July l , 1962
Fiscal
Through
Year Ended
August 16,
June 30,
1962
1962

240,791@ $ 1.)0 $

313,028.30

$313,028.JO

1 6 , 1:188@ $ 1.00

16,688.00
331,916. 30.

18 ,888.00
3 31,916.30

240,791 @ $ 1. 00

240, 791. 00

240 ,791 .00

182,475 . 00 $137,960 . 00
423,266.00 137,960.00

_1Lll 5 .00
285 , 306 . 00

240,791@ $ l.00

240, 791 . 00

240, 791.00

6, 461 fl.i $ 9.00

56,149.00
298,940.00

44,136.00
44, 136.00

14,013.00
254,8 04. 00

$ 1.00

6.461.00

4.904.00

1.557.00

CCRTl,. I CO Pva 1.. 1c >cCOUNTA N T~
0NC

BUSH

STREET

SAN F°P'ANC ISCO ...

Grand Lodge support
of activities:

Mag~"Ju~~s~B~
nte Most Wo rsh ipfu l Grand Lodge o f
Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California.
Ca lifornia Ma sonic Memorial Temple,
1111 Californ i a Street.
San Franc isco 8, California.
We have made an e xaminati o n of the 1962 Annual Returns of
the Constituent Lodges of GRAND LODGE , F . & I\. M. OF CALIFORNIA,
r epor ting on membership and on the payments due Grand Lodge in
accordance with th e provisions of the Constitution and Ordinances
a nd the action taken by Grand Lodge at the 1961 annual communication .
our examination was rnade in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards , and accordingly included s u ch tests of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary

in the circumstances.
The total payments due Grand Lodqe, based upon the 196 2
annual returns , amount to $ 1 , 060,583 . 30, as shown by the accompanying
sta tement, marked Exhibit I\. At the date of this report, this amount
had been collected in f u ll and transferr ed to the Grand Treasurer,
with the exception of a balance of $4,01 8 . 00 arising from adjusl:Jnent.s
and corrections in the relurns . This b a l ance was in p r ocess of
adjustinent and collection at the date of this report.

4~~~.v~~
Certified

P.~bl ic

Accountants

244,563
1962
Lesa. members
of Research
321
Lodges
Members other
than of
Research
244,242
Lodges
Leea, membe r s
for whom ~e r
c apita . waived
( inclu di ng
dues remit ted )

Ba~~~r~ f
Degrees conle~red in year
yg ~ d June 30,

6

Maaonic Homes of
california
contributions:
Ba lance of
members on
June 30 , 1962
as abo ve

cog fr f~YH~~~s

and affilia t e!!

California Masonic
Mcmoria l Temple
contributions:
Balance of
members on

June 30. 1962
ils above
Contributio ns
of initiates
George Washing to n
Masonic Natio nal
M-orial
contribu t i ons;
Con tr ibu t ions
of initiates
To t al

August 16 , 1962

6,461 •

$l..,06Q.583.30 $JB7.00Q,Q_Q $873, ~83.30

336

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT
LYBRAND, Ross BRos.c.. }fo:sTOOMERV
CC,.Tlirlt:O PVBl.IC ACCOUNTANTS
0Hc

B u sH

ST!llf:CT

SAN FRANCISCO 4

..iNITll.O a TA1'Ca

Masonic Homes of California,
California Masonic Memorial Temple,
1111 California Street,
San Francisco 8, California.
We have examined the statement of assets, reserves, and
fund balances of MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA, a California nonprofit corporation, as of June 30, 1962, and the related statement
of revenue rece ived and expense disbursed for the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with qenerally accepted
auditinq standards, and accordinqly included such tests of the
accountinq records and such other auditinq procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstancea.
In our opinion, the accompanyinq statements present
fairly the ·asset.s , reserves, and fund balances of Masonic HOlll8s
of California at June 30, 1962 arising primarily from cash
tranaactions, and the revenue received and expense disbursed by
it and the chanqes in reserves and in f und balances dur ing the
year then ended, . on a basis consistent with that of the preceding
year.

Exhibit E

- Reservea for apec ial purposes

Exhibi t F

- Endowment and trust funds

Exhibit G

- Permanent Endowment Fund

Exhibit H - John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
Exhibit I

- George F. Brigham and Laura E.
Brigh&111 Scholarship Fund

Exhibit J

-

Exhibit K

- Harriet C. Wadleiqh Endowment
Ntnui ty Fund

Exhibit L

- C. N. Flint Trust Fund

Exhibit M - Leonard Gross Me morial Fund
Exhibit N

- Students' Loan and Scholarship
Fund

Exhibit o

- Residents• account•

Schedule l - Investments
(Consolidated s chedule of
investments , other than
investments of the
Per111anent Endowment Fund)
Schedule 2 - Investments - Permanent EndC*llent
Fund of Masonic HaDas of
California
Schedule 3 - Reserves for special purposes
Schedule 4 - Details of expense
Two Pages

We attach the following:
Exhibit A

Stateme nt of assets, r e s erves,
and f und balances

Exhibit B

Statement of revenue received
and e xpense disbursed

Exhibit c

General Fund

J!lxhibit D

Property Fund

George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund

- Notes to financial statements

Certified Public Accountants

Septellber 7, 1962

337

338

EXHIBI T A

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Jtevenu e :
Grand Lodge, F. & A.H . :
1961 Annual Return s @ $1 per capita
Contri buti o ns of ini tiates and
affilia tes @ $25 each

A S S E T $1

$

649,03 0.21
600,00 0 .00

Investm ents at book value,
Schedu le l (Note 2):
Bonda (appro ximate market value
693 , 484 . 67
$625.7 02)
Prefer red stock (appro ximate
499 , 075.37
market value $45l,4 6J)
Common stock (appro ximate market
l,021,0 32.95
value $1,034 ,343)
Total {appro ximate market
value $2,111 ,508)
Notes receiv able (Note 3)
Other assets (Note 4) :
Life insura nce polici es assign ed by
5,250 . 66
reside nts of Decoto Home
Real estate assign ed by reside nts
of Decoto Home, or receiv ed by
875 . 74
gift or beques t
Total assets - Genera l
Fund and Reserv es
Pro perty . Exhibi t D:
Land, buildi ngs, and equipi- .ent
(Note 5):
Decoto Home
Covina UOl!le
San Franci sco office
Total assets - Proper ty Fund

4,085 , 976 .22
977 , 429.91
4,168 . 76

Endowm ent and truet funds - princi pally
cash and securi ties, Exhib it F

Proper ty Fund, Exhib it D
Endowm ent and trust funds, Exhib it F

239,93 1.00

$

182 , 950.00
422.88 1.00
1,100. 00

Lesa, adjustm ents for previo us years

2 , 213 , 5 92 • 99
159,37 6.20

6,126 . 40
3 , 627,12 5 . 80

5, 067 ,574 . 89
12,931 ,443 . 46
$21. 620 .144.1 5

$2,896 , 852.27
730,27 3.53

EXHIBI T B

$ 1 , 248 ,030.21

RESERVES AND FUND BALANCES:
Genera l Fund and Reserv es:
Reserv es for specia l purpos es,
Exhib it E (Note 6)
Genera l Fund, Exhib it c

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
DISBURSED
STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED AND EXPENSE
For the year ended June 30, 1962

ES
STATEMENT OF ASSETS , RESERVES, AND FUND BALANC
June 30, 1962

Genera l Fund and Reaerv es:
caah:
On hand and in banks
Time certif icate• of depoai t

339

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDINGS OP THE · ·

421. 781.00
468,30 2.57

G
Perman ent Endowm ent Fund income , Exhibi t
John and Lena Lucke nbach Fund income ,
Exhibi t H
Leonar d Gross Memor ial Fund income ,
Exhib it H
Paymen ts throug h Lodges for:
26,420 .00
$
Decoto r e s idents
22,089 .83
Covina reside nts
:
s
saving
and
ents
investm
Revenu e from
14,026 .85
Intere st on bank accoun ts
Intere st on notes and real
9,876.1 6
estate income
33,401 . 74
Intere st on bonds
65,815 .74
Divide nds on stocks
Miscel laneou s revenu e
Total r e venue
Expens e, Schedu le 4:
Operat ion of Masoni c Homes:
Decato Home
Covina Home
Relief outsi d e o f Masoni c Homes
Total expens e of homes and
relief
Adlllin istrativ e and genera l
,Reth:e nient income plan (Note 7)
Total expens e
Excess o f expens e over
revenu e, Exhib it C

2,866. 52
34.04

48,50 9 .8J

123,12 0.49
200 . 00
l,064,8 14.45

907,00 9.52
229.13 6.82
18,855 .01
1 , 155,00 1. 35
138,01 9.21
33,553 .38
1,326, 573.94

$

261.75 9 49

$ 3, 627 , 12 5. 80
S,067, 574 . 89
12,931 ,443 . 46
~21

626. 144 15

of the financ ial statem ente.
Th• accomp anying notes are an integr al part

of the financ ial statem ents.
The accomp anying notes are an integr al part

340

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORN IA

EXHIBIT C

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

GENERAL FUND
For the year ended June 30, 1962

Balance, June 30, 1961
Add, transfers from reserves
for special purposes:
From Covina Special Reserve for
following Covina Home ·
operating expenses o.f the
current year:
Hospital and medical
$19,132.48
24,412.17
Farm and grounds
Fron Unappropriated Reserve
in an amount equivalent
to the pensions assigned
by residents of the Decato
Hane in the current year
Net gain on sale of securities,
year ended June 30, 1962
Lesa, excess of expense over
revenue for the year ended
June 30, 1962, Exhibit B
Balance, June 30, 1962, Exhibit A

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIPOJUUA

EXHIBIT D

PROPERTY FUND
For the year ended June 30, 1962

$566,654.28

Balance, June 30, 1961
Additions to properties of the
Decato Home :
Charged to Reserve for Additions
and Replacemen ts:
Oil tank
Time clocks and racks
Charged "to Decato Special Reserve:
Public address system
Topographic survey
Verifax machine
•Tapestry
•cabinets
*"11tique furniture

$ 43 , 544.65

211,332.86

341

254,877.51
170 / 501. 23
992,033.02
261, 759 .49
$73Q.273 53

$5,_043,032.83

$3,742.84
997 .09
4,739.93
492.10
443.90
175.00
1,100.00
2,500.00
5,000.00
9, 711 .00

Charged to C. N. Flint Trust Fund:
Hospital furniture and equipaent
Total Decato Rome property
additions

4,014.16

Additions to properties of the
Covina Rane:
Charged to Reserve for Additiona
and Replacements:
Fence
Stain.1ay improvement - employees'
cottage
Kitchen equipment
Hedge trinner

294 . 40

Charged to Covina Special Reserve:
Camp couches
*House trailer
The accanpanying notes are an integral part of the financial atateaenta.

18,465.09

300.00
1,108.02
88.37
1,790.79
286 . 18
4,000.00
4,286.18

Total CoVina 8o~e property
additions
Balance, June 30, 1962, Exhibit A

6,076.97
$5.067,574 89

•Property additions so noted consist of donated items at
eatiJnated values.

'l'be ac:co~anying notes are an integral part of the financial statements .

342

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT E

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Total, Exhibit A

$

768,913.91
895,594.96
247,265.27
94,000.00
5,000.00
886,078.13

$2.896.952 27

ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS
June 30, 1962

Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic HOllles
of California, Exhibit G
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, Exhibit H
George F. Brigham and Laura E. Brigham
Scholarship Fund, Exhibit I
George M. and Florence G. Perine EndOW111ent
Fund, Exhibit J
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment .Annuity Fund,
Exhibit K
C. N. Flint Trust Fund, Exhibit L
Leonard Gross Memorial Fund, Exhibit M
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund, Exhibit N
Residents' Accounts, Ex.hibit O
Total, Exhibit A

EXHIBIT G

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES, Schedule 3
June 30, 1962

Reserve for Additio ns and Replacement•
Covina Special Reserve
Decato Special Rese rve
Funeral Reserve
Entertainment Reserve
Unappropriated Reserve

343

EXHIBIT F

$12 406' 101. 91
I

77 ,831. 96

The principal of this fund is restricted by Ordinances of Grand Lodge
so that no part of the principal shall ever be expended for any purpoae,
and the income therefrom shall be used only for the maintenance and
general oper ation o f the Masonic Homes.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962
A S S E T S:

cash in savings bank accounts
Investments {at book value), Schedule 2:
Bonde (approximate market value
$2. 963' 949)
Preferred stock (approximate market
value $1,864,485)
common stock (approximate market
value $6,382,383)
Total securities (approximate
market value $11,210,817)
•otea receivable (Note 3)
other assets (Note 4) :
Life insurance policies
Real estate and oil lease

$

$3,213,270.36
1,974,339.08
6,679,679.62
11,867 ,289.06
15,030.66
6.00
?.00

Total assets
37,296.09
20,379.00
12, 366.67
317,249.91
925.00
13,310.09
45,982.83

· FUND BJ\.LANCE:
Balance, June 30, 1961
Increase in fund:
Contributions.made through Lodges
Progress payments on pledgeB unallocated
Bequests
Gain on sale of securities and
real estate
Contributiona from organizations
and individuals
Mmlorials

15.00
$12 406 191 21

$11,355,093.95

$

$12 931.443.46

659,279.71
43,337.91
63,612.17
272,198.34
2I192 37
10,388.46

Balance , June 30, 1962, Exhibit F
STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVllD
For the year ended June 30, 1962
Interest on bank accounts
Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Interest on notes receivable
••t income from real estate
Revenue transferred to General Fund
incone, Exhibit B
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

523,767.19

o

1, 051, 007. 96
$ 12 496 101 . 91

$ 20,323.66
140,694.23
305,521.09
1,068.42
695.17
$468 392.57

"'- accompanying notes are an inteqral part of the financ ial statements .

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT H

The princip al of this fund, a beques t of Lena
Lucken
by the terms of the will to be kept intact and the bach, is restric ted
the benefi t of the care of orphans or the aged in income used only for
Masonic Homes of
Souther n Califor nia.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962

The princip al of t his fund, a beques t of Laura E.
in trust as a scholar ship fund for the benefi t of Brighain , is held
t
residen ts, $25,000 of which may be loaned f o r that he Covina Home
purpose , and the
income is restric ted and may be used only for providi
ng scholar ships.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962

A S S ET S:

A S S ET S:

caah in savings bank accoun t

$ 2,293.9 0

$24,710 .89
18,627. 46
32,199. 71

Total assets

75,538 .06
$77.831 .96

cash in savings bank accoun t
Investm ents (at book value) , Schedu le 1:
Bonds · (appr oximate market value
$22,358 )
Preferr ed stock (approx imate market
value $2, 703)
common stock (approx imate market
value $15,044 )
Total securit ies (approx imate
market value $40.105 )

Balance , June 30, 1961

2,699.5 5

$24,628 . 04
l,071.3 9
10,976. 65
36,676. 08
$37.296 09

hlan.c e, June 30, 1962, Exhibi t F
(Ro change took place in this fund balance
during the year ended June 30, 1962)

$37 ,296 Q9

$72.831 , 96

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the year ended June 30, 1962

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the year ended June 30, 1962

Revenue transfe rred to Genera l Fund
income, Exhibi t B

620.0l

FUND BALANCE:
$75, 132.41

Gain o n sale of sec urities
Balance , June 30, 1962, Exhibi t F

$

Total assets

FUND BALANCE:

Interes t on bank accoun t
Interes t on bonds
Dividen ds on stocks

EXHIBIT I

GEORGE F. BRIGHAM AND LAURA E. BRIGHAM
SCHOLARSHIP FUND

JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND

Investm ents (at book value) , Schedu le l:
Bonds (approx imate market value $22,200 )
Preferr ed stock (appr ox imate market
value $18,500 )
conmon stock (approx imate market value
$26,552 )
Total securit ies (approx imate
market value $67,252 )

345

$

175.40
1,154. 93
1,536.1 9

$2.866, 52

The accomp anying notes are an integra l part of the
financi al stateme nts.

Interes t on bank accoun t
Interes t on bonds
Dividen ds on stocks
Revenue transfe rred to Studen ts' Loan
and Schola rship Fund, Exhibi t N

$

24.66
683.53
711. 50

$1 ,41 9,69

TIM accanpa nying notes are an integra l part of the
financ ial atai:- nt..

EXHIBIT J

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

The principal of this fund , a bequ~st of F~orence G. Perine, is
subject to the provi•ion included in the will of the testator, that
the principal of the fund shall be kept intact and the income thereof
only shall be used for the benefit of the Decoto Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30. 1962

Thi• fund, in t he original amount of $30,000 , i a •ubjec t to a contract
with the donor pr oviding for the payment of certain life annuities out
of the pr i nc ipa l and income thereof. Under the terms of the c ontr act
only principa l of t he fu nd expended in paymen t of the annuities is to
be later res tor ed out of income to the fund when the annuiti es no
longer absorb the e ntire income . After restoratio n of the principal
to the original sum of $30 , 00 0, the income from the fund is to be used
for the bene fi t of the r e sidents o f the Covina Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962

A s S E T S:

$ 1, 269.62

Cash in savings bank account

A s s E T S:
$10,000.00
9,109 . 38
19,109.38
$20.372 PO

Total assets

Balance, June 30 , 1962, Exhibit F
(Ho change took place in this fund balance
during the year ended June JO, 1962}

cash in 9avings bank account
Invesbnents (at book value) , Schedule 1:
Bond• (approx imate market value $4 , 506)
coanon stock (approximate market value
fl,975)
Total securities (approximate
market value $8,481 )

$ 3,603.54

$ 5 ,000.00
3,763.13
8,763.13
$12,366.67

Total assets

FUND BALANCE:
$20 172 pg

FUND BALANCE:
Balance, Ju ne JO , 1,61
Gain on sale of consnon stock

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For . the year ended June 30, 1962
Interest on bank account
Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks

EXHIBIT K

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT
ANNUIT'{ FUND

GEORGE M. AND YLORENCE G. PERINE
ENDOWMENT FUND

Invest:ment• (at book value), Schedule 1:
Bond• (approxi111Ate market value $8,925)
ccamon atock (approximate market value
$6, 925)
TotaJ. securities (approximate
market value $15,850}

347

GRAND LODGE OF CALI PORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

316

Leas , excess of annui t ies over revenue

$ 76.63
JS0.00
.ill..:2Q.

Revenue transferred to Decoto
Special Reserve, Schedule 3

$12.366 .67

Balance , J une 30, 1962, Exhibit F
STAT EMENT OF ANNl.IITIES PAID AND RBVENUE RBCEIVED
For the year ended June 30, 1962

$1,350.00

Annuities paid as required by the agreemen t
Lea•, revenue:
Interest on bank accoun t
Interest on b onds
Dividends on stocks
Excess of annuities over revenue

The accaiipanying notes are an integral part of the financial statement•.

$12 , 425.37
786.87
13,212.24
845.57

$145.43
125.00
234.00

504.43

$

84 5 ,57

'!'ti. ACCOlllpanying notes are an integral part of the f inancial statements .

EXHIBIT L

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALI FORNIA

EXHIBI T M

LEONARD GROSS MEMORIAL FUND

C. N. FLINT TRUST FUND
from c. N. Flint. The
The princi pal of this fund c onsist s o f gifts
truste es for the use
income from . the fund has been design ated by the
of the Decoto Home.

as a memor ial to
Th• princi pal of this fu nd arises fr om g i fts mads
Leonar d Gross.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962

A S S E T S:

A S S E T S:

$

Cash in saving s bank acco unt
Investm ents (at book value) , Schedu le 1:
Bonds (approx imate market value $45,23 7)
Prefer red stock (approx imate marke t
value $180, 5 12)
Common stock (appro ximate market value
$97 , 821)
Total securi ties (appro ximate
market value $323,5 70)

349

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

348

2,309 .39

cash in saving s bank accoun t

$ 50 , 167.00
186,77 1.99

FUND BALANCE:

78,001 .53
314,94 0.52

Balanc e, June 30 , 1962 , Exhib it F
(No change took place in this fund during
the year ended June 30, 1962)

$317.2 49 91

Total assets
FUND BALANCE:

$321,3 54.83

Balanc e, June 30, 1961
Less:
Net loss on sale of securi ties
Purcha se of equipm ent and furnit ure
for Decoto Home hospit al

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the year ended June 30, 1962

90.76

$

4,014. 16

Intere st on bank accoun t
4,104. 92
$317,2 49 91

Balanc e , June 30 , 1962, EXhib it F

Reve nue transf erred to Gener al
Fund inc0111e, Exhibi t B

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the year ended June 30, 1962
Intere st on bonds
Divide nds on stocks
Intere st on bank acc ount
Revenu e transf erred to Pec oto
Specia l Reserv e, Schedu le 3
The accomp anying notes are an i n tegral part of

$ 2 , 618.11
ll,152 .82
117. 52
$1J.88 8.45
the financ ial statem ents .

the f inanci al statem ents.
The acconip anying notes are an in t egral par t of

351

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RN IA
PROCEE DINGS OP THE

350

EXHIBIT N

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR NIA

EXHIDIT 0

MASONIC HOMES OF' Cl\I.IFOR NII\
R!:SIDEN TS' ACCOUNTS

STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND
The income of the ~und
The princip al of this fund arises from gifts.
t l o an and scholar ship ,
is designa ted by the t ruste es for use for studen
purpose s.

f or the residen ts of
Thi• fund is compose d of amounts held in tru st
the Covina and Decoto Homes .
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30 , 1962
A S S E T S:

C~sh

$ 3,466.9 0

in savings bank account

Investm en ts (at book value) , Schedul e 11
Common etock (approx imate market
value $8, 937)

9,843.1 9
Sl:l.310 .09

Total assets
FUND BALANCE:

$10,900 .22

Balance , June 30, 1961

$.U :UQ.09

Balance , June 30 , 1962 , Exhibi t F
STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the year e nded June 30, l9b2

George F. Brigham and Laura c. Brigham
Schola rship Fund income, Exhibi t I
Gifts frOlll individ uals and organiz ations
Total reve nue

5,784 .08

cash in savings bank accoun t
Investm ents (at book value) , Schedu le l:
Preferr ed s t ock (approx imate market
value $18,662 )
Caamon stock (approx imate marke t value
$14 ,622)
Total s ecuriti es (approx imate
market value $3 3 ,284)

$18 t 061. 93
1 5 ,952.44

FUND DALANCEs
. .•idcnte ' e ccounta :
Balance , June 30, 1961
Net additio na
Balance , June 30, 1962, Exhibi t F

$43,221 .59
2,761.2 4
$ 45 .982 BJ

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the year ended June 30, 1962

$100.02

i1LQQ

34,014. 37
$45.982 83

Total asse ts

2,409.8 7

Add , revenue

Revenue from inve stments :
· Interee t on bank accoun t
Dividen ds on stocks

$ 6,184.3 8

cash in commer cial bank a ccounts

A S S E T S:

$

574 . 02
1,419.6 9
416.16

Interes t on bank accoun t
Dividen ds on stocks
Revenue tranefe rred to Decoto
Specia l Reserv e, Sche dule 3

$

163 . 82
1,680.2 0

$1.844 Q2

~2.409.87

t he f inancia l stateme nt•.
'!'he accomp anying note s are an integra l par t of

ial stateme nts.
The acc0111p anying notes are an integra l part of the financ

352

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SCHEDUL~

.MASONIC HOH.ES OF CALIFORNIA

l

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1 962

INVESTMENTS
June 30 , 1962

(Consolidated schedule of investments, other than
inveatrnents of the Permanent Endowment Fund)

PREFERRED STOCK

25,000
5,000
4,000
2,000
5,000
4,000
1,000
12,000
191 ,000
15,000
10,000
6,000
6,500
10,500
9,000
5,000
3,000
25,000
5,500
320,000
6,500
12, 700
. 5,000
10,000

Book Value
Cerro de Pasco Corporation, 5.5%, 1979
$
Chesapeake & Ohio R. R. Equipment Trust,
3-7/8%, 1962
continental Baking Co., 4 - 3 / 8", 1983
contra Costa county Road, 2-1/ 4%, 1974
Douglas Aircraft co., 4%, 19'.7
International Mineral & Chemical Corporation,
3.65%, 1977
.
Missouri Pacific R. R. Equipment Trust,
3-1/2%, 1963
Pacific Gas and Electric Company. 3%, 1970
s o uthern California Gas Company, 3-1/4%, 1970
southern California Gas Company , 3-1/4%, 1970
southe rn counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971
u. ·s. Treasury bonds, 3-7/8%, 1968
u. s. Treasury bonds, 3-5/8%, 1967
u. s . Treasury bonds, 3-1/ 2%, 1990
u. s. Treasury bonds, 3-1/ 2%, 1 990
u . . s. Treasury bonds, 3-1/ 2%, 1990
u. s. Treasury bonds, 3-1/ 2%, 1998
o. s. Treasury bonds, 3-1/4%, 1983-7 8
u. s. Treasury bonds, . 3%, 1964
o. s. Treasury bonds, 2-1/ 2%, 1970-65
· u. s . Treasu.ry bonds, 2-1/ 2%, 197 0-65
u. s . Treasury bonds, 2-1/ 2%, 197 0-65
u. s. Treasury bonds, 2-1/2%, 1971-66
u. s. Treasury bonds, . 2-1/2%, 1972-67
u. s. Treasury bonds, 271/ 2%. 1972-67
u. s. Treasury bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
u. s. Treasury bonds, · 2-1/ 2%, 1972-67
Virginian Railway Company, 6%, 2008
Wheeling Steel corp., 3-3/4%, 1975
Wheeling Steel Corp. ,· .3-3/4%, 1975
Total bonds

SCHEDULE l
Page 2

J!l!res

Face
value

2,300
2,000
50,000
11,000

Ml\SONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Page l

-~

$ 25,000
25,000

353

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

$

26,922.29
24,983.51
2,300.69
1,907 . 30
44,835.13
11,414.51

200
100
100
100
2,100
200
100
100
200
75
100
100
100
100
100
100

25,000.00
5.033.31-B
4,075.11-B
1,858. 18
5,044.65-B
3 '998. 39
1,000.00
11,519.15-F
194' 993. 95
14,399.17-L
10, 000. 00-P
5,925.76
6,438 .98
10,474.97-B
9,024.19-F
5,000.00-W
2,938.51
24,466.l)9-F
5,410.90
313.233.92
6,261.81
14 ,060.84
5, 156. 97-F
10. 311. 7 2-L

100

807,990.60

100

so
100
200
200.
300
200
200
200
100
100
200
200
100
200
100
200

so

100
100
400
100

Book Value
Allied Stores Cor pora tion, 4%
Al uminum Company of America, $3.75
Aluminum Company of America, $3.75
American Smelting and Refining Co. , 7%
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway
Company,· 5%
.Atlantic Refin ing Company, 3-3/4%, B
Atlantic Refining Company , 3-3/4%, B
Bristol-Myers co., 3 -3/ 4%
Canada Dry Corp., 4-1/ 4%
Canada Dry Corp., 4-1/ 4%
Celanese Cor p. of America , 4-1/ 2%, A
Celanese Corp . of America , 4-1/2%. A
Celanese Corp. of America, 4-1/ 2%
Champion Papers, Inc . , $4.50
Champion Papers , Inc., $4.50
Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Inc., $5. 00
Consumers Power Company, $ 4 .50
Crown Zellerbach Corporation, $4 . 20
Crown Zellerbach Corporation, $ 4.20
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, $4.50
Duquesne Light Company, $2.10
General Motors Corporation, $3.75
w. T. Grant company, 3-3/ 4%
Gulf states Utilities Company, $4.20
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Co., 4.125%
P. Lorillard Co., 7%
May Department Sto res Co ., $3.40
May Department Stores Co., $3.40
National Gypsum Co., $4.50
J. J. Newberry co . , 3-3/4%
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, 3.60%
Northern States Power Company of
Minnesota, $3. 60
Northern States Power Company of
Minnesota, $3.60
Northe rn States Power Company of
Minnes ota, $4.10
Ohio Edison Company, 4.40%
Ohio Edison Company, 4.40%
Ohio Edison Canpany , 4.40%
Oklahana Gas and Electric Co ., 4%
<>wens-I lli nois Glaas Co., 4"
Forward

16,286.2 0
8,661.26-F
9,839.00
14,503.65
21,041.15
1 6 , 790.00-F
9, 971. 93
8,950.15
16, 498. 78-F
7,528.60
8, 322.48
8,272.43-F
8,322.48-L
9,846.80-F
.1 0,677 .56
10,208 . 85
4 ,575,00
9,846.60- F
19, 693.60
24,148.85
15 ,504.51
20,094 .00
19,791. 70
19,521.53
10 ,3 26 . 78
14,306 . 75
14, 441. 70-F
16,229.98
10,420.38
16,890.00-F
9,045.80
. 15,008.68
7,623 . 73-F
10,144.60
4 , 425.00
9,400.60-F
9,451.45-L
7 ,887 .08
11, 4 50. 60-F

$

485,950.24

354

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

GRA ND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALI FORN IA

SCHEDULE l
Page 3

355

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTKENTS
June .30, 1962

8Clm>ULE l
.l'A9 • '

INVEST)JENTS
June 30, 1962

PREFERRED STOCK (Con tinue d)
COMMON STQC!< (Con tinue d)

Book valu e
Fon. 1ard
100
175
100
100
441
100
100
100
600
620
300
125
300
272
100
600
50
200
50
9
200
200
700
1,30 0
400
100
300
100
100

Paci f ic Gas and Elec tric Com
Paci fic Gas and Elec tric comppany , 5%
any, 5-1/2 ')(.
Pac ific Gas and Elec tric Com
Pac ific Gas and Elec tric Com pany , 5%
Pac ific Gas and Elec tric Com pany , 5%
Paci f i c Ligh ting Corp orat ion,pany , 5%
4.36%
Pac ific Ligh ting corp orat ion,
Pac ific Ligh ting corp orat ion, 4.36 %
$4.5 0
Pub lic Serv ice co. o f Indi
ana, 4. 16%
Pub lic Serv ice Elec tric &
Gas
comp any, $1.4 0
San Dieg o Gas & Elec tric Comp
any, 5.6° "
Sout hern cali forn ia Edis on
comp any, 4.32 "
Sout hern Cali forn ia Edis on
comp any. 4.32 "
Sout hern Cali forn ia Edis on
comp any. 4.32 "
Sout hern Cali forn ia Edis on
Com pany , 4.32 "
Sout hern Cali ·forn ia Edis on
comp any, 4. 24%
Sper ry Rand Corp orat ion, $4.5
0
Sper ry Rand corp orat ion, $
4.
Sper ry Rand Corp orat ion, $4.55 0
Stat e Gua ranty corp orat ion, 0
$1.3 0
Stau ffer Chem ical co. , 3-1/
2"
Tide wate r Oil Com pany , $1.2
0
Tide~ater Oil comp any, $1.2
Unio n Pac ific Rail road Com 0
pany , 4%
Unio n Paci fic Rail road Com
pany , 4%
Unio n Paci fic Rail road comp
any, 4%
Unio n Pac ific Rail road conip
Wes ting'h ouse Elec tric Corp any, 4"
orat
ion , 3. BO%
Wes tingh ouse Elec~ric Corp
orat ion, 3.80') (,, B

2,64 6.85 -P
5,91 5.38
2,65 3.13
2,65 0.00
13 ,045 .88
8,98 8.68 -P
10 ,000 .00
8,92 2.BB -R
15,7 45.0 8
1 9.2.3 7. 95
6,84 0. 75
1,07 1.39 -B
6,96 9.83 -P
6, 144. 32
2,17 8.50 -R
15,3 30.0 0
4, 284·. 00-P
20,0 85.2 0
4 ,284 .00-R
366. 75
16,4 95.6 5-P
5 ,230 .88-P
19,1 19.2 8
12. 940. 94
3,41 2.82 -P
853. 53-L
2. 676. 55-ll
9,02 0.78 -P
9 946. 90
723, 608. 14

Tota l preferre d stoc k
COMMON STOCK
100
400
100
100
25
700

Book Valu e

485, 950. 24

$

For.1 ard
100
132
100
100
200
600
100
300
300
136
100
100
. 30
660
100
100
132
11,4 00
150
100
100
425
200
100

1,50 0
304
102

100
400
1,02 0
102
200

100

Allied Chem ic al Corp .
Alum inum Comp any of Ame rica
Alum inum Comp any of Ame rica
Ame rican can comp any
Ame rican Cyan amid comp any
Asso ciate s Inve stme nt comp
any

6,37 0. 33
29,8 12.3 8
7 ,435 .64-L
4,20 2.31
l, 115. 63
39,8 12.5 0

P or.1a rd

88, 748. 79

$

200
100

100
100
300

204
300

$

Atch
ison
Comp
an~ Tope ka &

Bank of Aine rica , N. T & S
•
Be-t hleh e111 Stee 1 Corp•
"'·
orat ion
0 org-~arner Corp orat ion
~ana~ian Pac ific Rail
road
Carr ier Cor pora tio
n
Cc:np any
c arri er corp orat ion
Champio~ Pape rs, Inc.
Com merc ial cred it c
Con solid ated Edison~any
Ne~ York , Inc .
onipa ny of
Con tinen tal Can c o . ' Inc.
Coro na Foo thill Lema c
Covi na Irrig atin g co~ 0 •
Crow n Ze ~lerbach Corp orat ion
Dow Chem ical co.
East man Koda k comp any
El . Pa~o Natu ral Gas Comp an
Pai.r vi.eY Exte nsio n Mini ng
~om
~~s teel Met allu rgic al
pany
~reman's Fund Insu
ranc e Co
~rs~ Hati onal Bank of Haw
aii
nera l Moto rs Corp orat ion
Gen eral Moto rs Corp orat ion
Gen eral Moto rs Corp orat io n
Gene ral Tire and Rubb
Good year Tire and Rubbe~r c ~pan
y
Good yea r Tire and Rubb er Co.
Inge rsol l-Ra nd co
•
Inla nd Stee l co . •
Inte rnat iona l Pape r Comp
rn?> rnat iona l Pape r
Ka~ser .AluminUDI and
Chem ical
Kai. ser Alum inum and Chem
ical Corp .
Xen neco tt Coppe r Corp
Corp .
K~nnecott Copp er Corp :

2 , 845. 56
6,98 0.50
3,98 7.49
4 ,241 .00
5,36 6.00
23 , 769. 44
3,88 9.25 -P
9 , 630. 64
11,4 81.8 0
10, 6 1 0 .69
3,72 5.94
)0,0 00 .00
32.5 0
33,6 04.8 6
8,33 4.79
11,3 33 . 07
3,56 8.32
57.0 0
5,51 9.48
6,24 5.20
6,08 2.54 -P
19,0 49.4 6
8, 731. 26-R
4 , 880. 69-5
28,6 76.4 6
13,9 38.5 6
4 , 604. 31-P
8,74 7.70
18 ,520 . 0l
32,5 68.0 9
l ,611 .88- L
8,91 2 . 25
4 , 441. 00-P
16 ,873 . 77
8,38 4.84 -P
ll ,137 .59
9,00 0.20 -L
44 ,61 1.45
11 ,353 . 27
6,48 5. 75

C0111p=~

~~::=~~ :n~Hy
Hyer s Toba cco co

Mi

ers Toba

• .

cco Co
nneapolis-Hone~ell Regu
la~

Mon santo Chem ical c
Mon tgom ery Ward & c~: . Inc.
Fo~ard

88, 748. 79

Sant a Pe Rail way

or

$

544 ,603 .39

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 5

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

357

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1962

SCHEDULE l
Page 6

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1962

COMMON STOCK (Continued)

COMMON STOCK (Continued)
Book Value

Fon.iard
100
100
200
300
100
100
100
408
200
100
200
120
300
100
300
102
102
125
21
1,629
28-1/2
1,000
100
330
l,000
276
100
100
30
100
100
253
132
105
JOO
100
104
104
500
200
52

Morgan Guaranty Trust company of
New York
National Lead co.
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
.
Ohio Oil Company
Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp.
Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp.
Owens-Illinois Glass Company
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Parke, Davis & Co.
J.C. Penney Co., Inc.
Phillips Petroleum Company
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company
Pittsburgh Plate Glas~ Company
Public service Electr ic & Gas Co~pany
Ramona Savings and.Loan.Association
River Farms of California
Association
San Dimas Water Co.
Santa Rosa savings and Loan
.
Schering Corp.
Security First National Bank
Security First National Bank
Shell Oil Co.
Smith Kline & French Labs
Socony Mobil Oil company, Inc.
Southern California Edison Company
Southern Pacific Company
southern Pacific Company
.
Southern Realty Co.
Standard Oil company of Cal~ forn~a
Standard Oil company of California
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey
Sunray DX Oil Co.
.
.
Sunray DX Oil Co.
Tennessee Gas Transm~ss~on Company
Tennessee Gas Transmission Company
Texaco, Inc.
Fon.iard

$

Book Value

544,603.39
7,015.32-P
8,910.56
7, 577. 25-B
12,944.07-P
J, 787. 75-L
4 ,668.38-P
3,763 . 13-W
15, 933.64
9,121.69
4, 981.19-P
18. 451.10
3,240.00
11 ,501. 44
4 ,969.88-P
17,435.80
7 ,221.18-R
7 ,221.18
3,399.40-B
1 6,800 . 00
48 ,870.00
2,080.00
145,000 . 00
5, 771.23
4,533.54-r
55,227.38
11,233 .26
7 ,096.05
4,843.00
840.00'
2,48l'..25
. 2 ,481. 90-L
399. 00-P
6,242.55
5,05t'>.51-r
13,549.13
4,466.13-P
2,680.87
2,643.37-1'
12,117.10
4,962.50....

L904.U
$1,058,025.31

Fon.ard
100
100
600
138
200
100
309
330
200
200
200

$1,058,025 . 31

Timken Roller Bearing COtTipany
Union Carbide Corp.
United Gas corporation
United States Gypsum co.
United States Steel Corp.
United States Steel Corp.
Wells Fargo Bank
wells Fargo Bank
Western Bancorporation
Wisconsin Public Service Corp .
F. w. Woolworth co.
Four lots of securities, relating to
Masonic Temples in certain California
cities, carried at a nominal value

5,619.58
13,752.70
22,252.62
13,822.35
16,294.20
5,882.34-L
7 ,196.27
8,031.58-F
6,068.00
8,959.38
14,973:65

Loo

Total common stock
Total investments

J!2!:!.:

1, 180, 878. 98
$2.712,4??,22

The above schedule includes all the securitiea
of the .Masonic Homes of California, except
those in tJhe Permanent .E:ndOWlllent Fund which
&re shown on Schedule 2. Securities are
~
Coded for the following · funds:

B - George F. Brigham and Laura E. Brigham

Scholarship Fund, Exhibit I
P - C. N. Flint Trust Fund, Exhibit L
L - John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, Exhibit H
P - George M. IUld Florence G. Pe rine
Endowment Fund, Exhibit J
R - Residents• Accounts, Exhibi t o
S - Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund,
Exhibit N
W - Harriet c. Wadleigh Endowment
Annuity, Exhibit K
fODCoded) - General Fund, Exhibit A
Total inveatmenta (as above )

$

36,676.08
314,940.52
. 75,5)8.06
19,109 . 38
34,014.37
9,843.19

8,763.13
2 ,213,592 .99
$2.712.477 72

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALI.FORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1962

~

•

75,000
25,000

Book Value

50,000
50,000
2,000
100,000
50,000
10,000
50,000
47;000
50,000
25,000
25,000
50,000
S0,000
50,000
100,000
50,000
100,000
10,000
100,000
165,000
1,055,000
730,000
5,000

Cerro de Pasco Corporation, 5-1/2%, 1979 $
Chesapeake & Ohio R. R. Equipment
Trust, 3-7/8%, 1962
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Equipment Trust, 2-5/8", 1965
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific R. R.
Equipment Trust, Series N, 2-3/ 4%, 1962
Continental Baking Company, 4-3/8%, 1983
Federal National Mortgage Association,
5-1/8%, 1972
Great Northern Ry., Second Equipment
Trust, 2-5/8". 1968
Illinois Central R. R. Equipment Trust,
Series 35, 2-3/ 4')(., 1962
Illinois Central R. R. Equipment Trust,
Series 40, 2-5/8% , 1964
Internationa l Minerals & Chemical Corp.,
3.65"· 1977
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Equipment
Trust, Series L, 2-7/8%, 1962
Missouri Pacific R. R. Equipment Trust,
Series C, 3-1/2%, 1963
Northern Pacific Ry. Equipment Trust,
3"· 1963
Oakdale Irrigation District Tri Dam,
3.05')(., 2004
Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R. R. Equipment
Trust, 3-7/8", 1962
Seaboard Aixline R. R. Equipment Trust.
Sexies L, 2-7/8", 1962
Sinclair Oil Corporation, 4-3/8%. 1986
Sou.th San Joaquin Ixrigation District
Re•enue, 3.05%, 2004
Southern Pacific Company, Equipment
Trust, Series 00, 2-5/8%, 1965
U. s. Treasuxy bonds, 3-7/8", 1968
u. s. Treasury bonds, 3-3/4%, 1966
u. s. Treasury bonds, 3-1/2%, 1998
u•. s. Treasury bonds, 3-1/2%, 1990
u. S. Treasury bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
u. s. Treasury bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
Forward

SCHEDULE 2
Page 2

MASONIC HO.MES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HO.MES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page l

:INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1962

Pace value

359

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE

358

49.812.00

Book Value

race Value

81. 784 . 58
24,983.57

(Continued)

$ 3,048,157 . 55

Fon.ard
100,000
12,000
17,300
35,000

49,993.63
2,009.63

U. S . Treasury notes, 3.75% . 1966
U. s. Treasury notes, 1.5%, 1965
Virginian Railway Company, 6%, 2008
Wheeling Stee l Corporation, 3-3/ 4%, 1975

99,663.~6

12,035,95
19,153.47
34,259.83
3,213,270.36

Total bonds

99,900.18
PREFERRED STOCK
49,535.63
9,993.26
49 , 824 . 82
49 , 003.58

600
300
300
2,900

49,998.41

700
300

25,000 . 00

480

24,999.68

700
340
100

50,lll.7l
200
49,986 . 08
49, 977 .45
100,662.21
50,111. 72
99, 399.47
10,000.00
100,000.00
165, 774.11
1,086 , 075.89
714,281.27
4,938 . 66
$ 3,048,157.55

250
800
200
200
300
400
500
800
300
1,100
300
510
~90

200

4"

Allied Stores Corporation.
Aluminum Company of America, $3.75
American Smelting and Refining Co.,
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway
Company , 5%
Atlantic Refining Company, 3-3/4", B
Bristol-Mye rs Co., 3-3/4%
Canada Dry Corp., $4 .25
Ceianese Corp. of America, 4.5')(.
Champion Pape rs, Inc ., $4.50
Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Inc ., 4-1/8%
Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Inc., 5%
Consume rs Power Company, 4-1/2%
Continental Baking Company, $5.50
Crown Zellerbach corporation, $4.20
E. I . du Pont de Nemours & Company, $4.50
Duque sne Light Company, $2.10
Ge.n eral Motors corporation, $3. 75
General Motors Corporation,
W. T . Grant Company, 3-3/4%
Gulf States Utilities Co., $4.20
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/8%
P. Lorillard Co., 7%
May Department Stores Company, 3.40%
National Gypsum co., $4.50
J. J. Newberry Company, 3-3/4"

5"

Forward

7"

47 ,471.30
27,213.45
43, 771.38
29,228.95
59,901.38
27,747.10
43,030.42
58,256.16
33,167 .34
10,283.44
20,903.80
24. 221. 57
83,753.17
19,689.60
. 24,148.85
15,577 . 06
38,373.30
52. 271. 29
66,529.65
29,920.54
106,429. 89
4J,l93.9J
39,355 . 84
. 38,640.05
17 ,891.00
$ 1,001,070.46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

360

SCHEDULE 2
Page 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNII'.
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
Ml\SONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNII'.
INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1962

GR.-.ND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

361

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNII'.

SCHEDULE 2
Paga 4

INVESTMENTS
June JO, 1962

PREFERRED STOCK (Continued)

COMMON STOCK
Book Value
Book Value

Foniard
600
500
300
250
2,400
300
100
600
96
300
114
400
1,200
l,300
500
1,500
1,000
1,200
2,300
600
200
2,000
1,000
4,000
633
300

$ 1,001.070,46

~k power corporation, 3.6°"
Niagara Moh ~Northern States Power co. of Minnesota,
$4.10
.
ta
Northern states power co. of Minneso ,
$3. 60
Ohio Edison Company, 4.~"
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Co., 4"
owens-Illinois Glass Company, 4%
Pacific Gas and Electric company, 5",
Red. let, A
~
Pacif ic Gas and Electric Company, 5~,
. Red . 1st
Pacific Gas and Electric ~ompany, 5 - 1/2"
Paci fic Lighting corporat~on, $4.36
pac i fic Lighting Corporat~on, $4.40
Pacific Lighting Corporation,. $4.50
"
Public Service Company of Indiana, 4.16
public service Electric & Gas Company,
$1.40
Reynolds Metals Co., 4.5"
San Diego Gas and Electric company, 5.6°"
schering corp., 5~
.
southern California . Edison Company, 4.24"
southern California Edison CCX!lpany, 4.32"
Sperry Rand corporation, .$4.50
Stauffer Chemical corupany, 3-1/2"
Tidewater Oil Company, $1.20
Toledo Edison company . _$4.25
union Pacific Railroad Company, 4"
united states steel corp •• 7" .
Westinghouse Electric Corporation,
3.8°", B
Total preferred stock

48,631.00
45,311.48
22,669.93
23,520.08
44, 118.83
34,651.91
2 ,640.56
15,843.38
2,430.00
28.647.60
10,020.83
35,716.53
30,838.32
40,440.51
57 ,953.31
31.452.i4
45,918.10
30,660.00
51,009.47
56,013.03
11,465. 78
53, 185.27
84,974.50
38, 726.13
90,589.22
29,840. 71
$ 1,974,339.08

500
1,700
1,306
500
1,600
1,350
1,500
300
2,900
800
2,043
978
1,300
933
1,900
800
2,800
1,200
1,000
1,900
662
713
1,000
1,000
1,178
400
1,166
1,900
l,365
2,187
880
2,856
l,953
600
1,200
400
l,700
l,050
1,300
400

Abbott Laboratories
Allegheny Power System, Inc.
Allied Chemical Corp.
Aluminum Ccnpany of America
American Can Company
American Cyanamid CQlllPany
l'.naconda co .
Associa·tes Investment Co.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Pe Rllilway
Company
Atlantic Re f ining Company
Bank of America, N.T. & S.A.
Bankers Trust Company of New York
Bendix Corporation
Bethlehem Steel Corp.
Borg-Warner Co rporation
C.I.T. Financial Corp.
Canadian Pacific Railw11y Corupany
Carrier Corporation
Central Illinob Light co.
Champion Papers, Inc.
Chase Manhattan BanJc ·
Chemical Bank New York Trust Comp11ny
Cincinnati Gas & Electric co.
Colgate-Palmol ive Co.
Columbia Gas system, Inc.
Commercial Credit Co.
Consolidated Edison Company of
New York, . Inc.
Continental Can co., Inc.
Continental Insurance Company
Crocker-Ang lo National Banlt
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
CrWll and Forster
Dow Chemical Ccnpany
E. I. du Pont de Re1DOUrs & Company
Duquesne Light Company
Eastman Kodak Co.
El Paso Natural Gas Company
F ansteel Metallurgical
Fireman's Fund Insurance Corupany
First National Bank of H1"olaii
Fonorard

$

34, 717. 40
37,404.48
68,038. 41
38,351.10
67,5 19.58
32,532.26
62,995.48
21,588.65
71,484.65
28,269. 0 3
110 ,5 34.03
23,968.46
85 , 456.10
39,701.83
78,550.98
36,993 . 00
75,182. 48
4 6 ,726 .85
44 ,076.03
63,354.19
23,432.45
34,092.36
42,275 .18
38,108.84
20,483.95
20,576.60
76, 769 . 90
72 . 213. 71
58,404.77
27,528.49
46,134.30
1 03,999.36
129,552 .82
130,762.34
16 ,686.78
4 2,919. 47
46 ,704.45
38,723 .93
71,440.38
24, 330.16

$ 2,132,585. 23

PRO CEE DING S OP THE

362

MASO NIC HOMES OF CALIFORN
IA
PERMA.°'fENT ENDOWMENT FUND
OP
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN THE
IA

GRA NO LOD GE OP CAL !P ORN

SCHEDULE 2
Page 5

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1962

IA

363

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND
OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN
IA

SCHEDULE 2
Pag • 6

INVESTMENTS
June 30, l 962

COMMON STOCK (Con tinu ed)

COMMON STOCK (Con tinu ed)
Book Valu e

Fon iard
1,27 4
l.00 0
1,00 0
638
1,78 3
l,00 0
l,51 4
1,63 2
1,00 0
1,03 8
1,300
1 ,500
1,00 0
233
700
918
700
2,30 8
1,00 0
l. 700
1,20 0
900
700
1,00 0

eoo

614
500
700
1,00 0
816
l,80 0
2,70 0
614
1,40 0
2,00 0
1,50 0
l,80 0
1,87 7
700

Firs t Nati onal city Bank
of New York
Gen eral Dyn amic s Cor pora
tion
Gene ral Mil ls Inco rpor ated
Gen eral Moto rs Cor pora tion
Gen eral Pub lic Uti litie s
corp .
B. F. Goo dric h C0111pany
Goo dyea r Tire and Rubb er
co.
Gul f Oil Cor pora tion
Har tfor d Fire Insu ranc e Co.
Home Insu ranc e comp any of
New York
Ing erso ll Rand Co.
Inla nd stee l co.
Insu ranc e Com pany of Nort
h Amer ica
Inte rnat iona l Bus ines s Mac
hine s
corp orat ion
Inte rnat iona l Har vest er co.
Inte rnat iona l Pape r Co.
Inte rsta te Pow er Co.
Irvi ng Tru st comp any
John s-M anvi lle Corp .
Kai ser Alum inum and Che mica
l corp .
Ken neco tt Cop per corp .
Libb y-ow ens- Ford Glas s co.
Lig gett & Mye rs Toba cco co.
P. Lori llar d comp any
KcG raw Edis on Co.
Man ufac ture rs Hano ver Tru
st Co.
Merck and co., Inc.
Min neap olis- Hon eyw ell Reg
ulat or
Min neso ta Min ing & Man ufac
turin g Co.
Mon sant o Che mica l Co.
Monta na Dak ota Uti litie s
Co.
Mon tgom ery Ward & Co., Inc.
Morga n Gua rant y Tru st co.
of New York
Nat iona l Lead Co.
Nat iona l Stee l corp .
New York Chic ago and st. Lou
is Rail road
Nor ther n Nat iona l Gas com
pany
Nor ther n Stat es Pow er of
Min neso ta
Ohio Edis on comp any

Book Valu e

$ 2,13 2,58 5.23
66 ,099 .44
58,7 34.3 6
29,6 43.4 2
30, 075. 89
20. 972. 27
53,8 78.9 4
69,6 40.7 5
60,1 08.5 4
60,3 24.8 8
39,2 63.1 9
111 . 718. 34
69,9 99.4 7
53.2 05.0 0
33,4 31.2 1
31,2 17.6 4
32,5 34.5 2
18,3 61.8 0
56,9 77. 67
46. 071. 16
63,8 06.5 9
102, 330. 78
49 ,900 .50
73 ,699 .30
45,2 84.3 0
29,7 99.7 2
13,9 81.0 6
43,5 26.1 8
103, 726. 76
66,6 00.0 3
45,7 11.3 6
54, 328. 37
96,7 59.9 0
38,9 31.0 8
127 ,622 .96
94,2 16.1 9
56 ,079 . 59
56,5 02 .43
22,9 97 . 59
12 ,803 .ll

$ 4,29 3,45 2.17

2,07 4.68
1,60 0
800
1 , 839
533
900
2 ,700
800
l,60 0
816
745
408
788
900
1,00 0
665
1,40 0
500
400
1,307
1,63 5
1,20 0
4

2,00 0
2,06 3
2, 500
1,63 5
1, 729
2,66 0
1,45 8
900
3,03 6
1,12 2
1,00 0
900
2,00 0
2,30 0
900

$ 4,29 3,45 2.17
Ohio Oil Co.
Olin Mat hies on Chem
c
OWe~s~Illinois Glas sical
Comp~~·
Pac~f~c Gas and Ele
ctri c Com pan
Pac ific Ligh ting Cor pora tion
y
Panh andl e East ern Pipe line
Co
Park e, Dav is & co.
·
J • C. Penn ey co.
P~illips Petr oleu m
Com pany
Pitt~burgh Plat e
Glas s co.
Pub lic Serv
Ele ctri c & Gas C
Rohm & Haas ice
Co.
ornp any
San Dieg o Gas & Ele ctri c
Com pany
Sche ring Corp .
Seatt~e Fi7 st Nat iona
l Bank
Sec urit y Firs t Na~ional Bank
She ll . Oil.C omp any
She n.in Wil l iams co.
Smi th Klin e and Fren ch Labs
Soco ny Mob il . oil com pany ,
Sou ther n Cal1 forn ia Edis on Inc.
Com pany
Sou th ern Pac ific comp any
Sou ther n Rea lty Com pany
Spe rry Rand Cor pora tion
Stan dard Oil Corn pany of Cal
ifor nia
Stan dard O~l Com pany of Indi
ana
Stan dard Oil Com pany of N""'
Je
Sun ray DX Oil Com pany
rsey
Tenn esse e Gas Tran smis sion
Com pany
Texa co. Inc.
Timk en Rol ler Bea ring co
Titl e Insu ranc e & ~rust
Tr~nsamerica
Cor po;a tion Oftlpany
Un~on Banl t, Los Ang
eles
Un~on carb ide corp
.
Unio n Pac ific Rail road c
Unit ed Gas Cor pora tion ompa
ny
Unit ed Stat es Gyps um comp
any

C

F on.a rd

85,5 88.5 3
72,9 93.6 5
74,0 19,8 8
30. 091. 13
27,4 13.6 9
50,2 13.3 1
98,4 35.1 8
39,4 55.0 3
82 ,879 . 22
57 ,894 . 53
18,6 56.9 9
58 ,425 . 20
16,5 02 .66
52,1 32.2 5
72,0 86.6 5
28,2 34.6 5
38,8 71.9 2
65,0 60.0 0
28,3 84 . 40
63 ,451 . 21
18,9 65. 91
29,5 01.8 9
11.0 0
31,8 31.0 5
98. 561. 52
118, 744. 23
76,6 85 . 98
4 5,88 1.93
63 ,786 .72
59,6 88.6 1
50,7 76.3 8
37,5 00.0 0
28,1 35. 10
75,9 65.7 0
115, 788. 07
56,1 78.4 8
85, 734 .04
94 ,495 . 25

$ 6,44 2,49 4.ll

365

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

364

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
SCHEDULE 3
Page l

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI A
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE

SCHEDULE 2
Page 7

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the year ended June 30, 1962

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1962

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
This res e rve is credited with amounts to be used for the
general purpo ses o f the Decoto and Covina Homes.

COMMON STOCK (Continued )

nook Value
$ 6,442,494 .ll
Forward·
1,500
1,500
400
700
800
300

United states Steel Corp.
warner Lambert Pharmaceu tical
Washington Water P°".'er Company
Western Bancorpor ation
Wisconsin Public Service Corp.
p w Woolworth Co.
Five.lots of stock of.undetermi~:i
value received as gifts, carri
at a nominal value
Total common stock
Total investmen ts, Exhibit G

102 ,013. 34
41,261.44
16,534 . 88
18,316.37
36, 001. 07
23,056.41

$778,347.7 0

Balance, June 30 , 1961
Bequests allocated to Reserve
by Trustees
Net income from r e al estate
received from bequests
allocated to Reserve by
Trustees

$25, 241.12

1 , 321.22
530.72

contributi ons

27,093.06
2.QQ

6,679,679. 62

$},l B67.2B9 06

Less , charges to Reserve:
Additions to Decato
Home
Additions to Covina
Home
Replacemen ts to
Decoto Home
Rcplacemen ts to
Covina Rome
Special projects principall y engineering ser~ices for
Decoto Home

$ 4,739.93
1, 790 . 79
12,296.19
15.301.22

Decrease in Reserve
Balance, June 30, 1962,
Exhibit E

2,398.72

36,526.85
9,433 . 79
$768.913 . 91

"
'

'

'!'be ac:cC111p&nyin9 notes are an integral part of the financial etate-nts .

366

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

367

SCHEDULE 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Page 2

RESERV.ES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the year ended June 30, 1962

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3
Page 3

-RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the year ended June 30, 1962

COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE
DECOTO SPECIAL RESERVE
This reserve is credited with amounts specified for the
use of the Covina Home.
$805,397.07

Balance, June 30, 1961
Bequests allocated to Reserve
by Trustees
Net income from real estate
received by bequests,
allocated to Reserve by
Trustees
Contributions for Home

Balance, June 30, 1961
$148. 288. 93

Balance, June 30, 1962,
Exhibit E

$19,210.32

Net income from real estate
received by bequests
allocated to Reserve by
Trustees

7 I 922.55
4,209.62

639.81

C. N. Flint Trust Fund
income, Exhibit L

Leas, charges to Reserve:

Increase in Reserve

$217 . 301. 39

Bequests allocated to Reserve
by Trustees

160,421.10
Additions to Covina
$ 4,286.18
Home
Replacements to
13 ,400.02
Covina Home
Expenditures to:
special benefit
6,432.17
of residents
Amo11nt transferred to
2,560.19
Entertainment Reserve
Transfers authorized by
the Board of Trustees
to reimburse the
General Fund for the
following Covina
operating expenses of
the current year:
Hospital and
19,132.48
medical expense
Farm and grounds
24,412.17
expense

This reserve is credited with amounts specified for t h e
u•e of the Decoto Home.

13,888.45

George M. and Florence G.
Perine Endowment Fund
inccme, Exhibit J

614.13

Residents' Accounts income,
Exhibit 0

l,844.02

Contributions for Home

9,411. 75
45,608 . 48

Leas, charges to Reserve:
Additions to Decoto Home
Replacenients to Decoto
Home
Expenditures for special
benefit of residents
Amount transferred to
Entertainment Reserve

$9,711.00

Increase in Reserve
70,223.21
90,197.89
~895, 5 94

Balance, June 30, 1962,
Exhibit E

430.05
2,943.36
2,560.19

15,644.60
29,963 . 88
$247 265. ;p

96

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statement..
The acca11panyin9 notes are an integral part of the financi•.l •tatementa.

368

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ml\SONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASbNIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3
Page 4

SCHEDULE 3
Page 5

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the year ended June 30, 1962

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL ·PURPOSES
For :the year ended June 30, 1962

FUNERAL RESERVE

UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE

This reserve is credited with amounts transferred frOlll the
Unappropriated Reserve to provide for funeral expenses for the
residents of the Decato Home.
Balance, June 30, 1961
Amount . transferred from
Unappropriated Reserve
Less, funeral expense

$90 '750. 00
$14,879.49
11,629.49

Increase in Reserve

3,250.0Q

Balance, June 30, 1962,
Exhibit E

$94.oog go

Thie reserve is cred·ited with amounts assigned by residents
the Decato Home on admi ssion and includes proceeds from pensions,
life insurance policies, and sale of real estate. Th e reserve ie to
be ueed for the benefit.of the residents at the Decato Home.
~f

Balance, June 30, 1961
Assets assign.ed by residents of
the Decoto Home on admission
including proceeds from sale
of real estate and from life
insurance policies
Pensions assigned by residents
of the Decoto Home
Accounts of deceased residenta
Income from real estate assigned
by residents on admission

$665' 161. 06

$281,048.04
211,332.86
12,111.12
3,204.42
507 ,696.44

EN'rERTAINMENT RESERVE
Thie reserve is credited with contributions and amounts
transferred from .Decato Special Reserve and Covina Special Reserve
to be used for the entertainment of the residents of the Homes.
Balance, June 30, 1961
Contributions
Amount transferred frOlll Covina
Special Reserve
Amount transferred from Decoto
Special Reserve

369

$ 5,000.00
$9,281.42
2,560.19
2,560.19

Lees, charges to Reserve:
Transfer to General
Fund of the amount
of pensions assigned
by residents of the
.Decato Home
$211,332.86
Monthly grants to
resident~
53,856;00
Amount transferred to
Funeral Reserve
14,879.49
Real estate a nd
insurance expense
6,711.02

14,401.BO
19,401.80

Less, entertainment expense at
Decato and Covina Homes

14,401.80

Balance, June 30, 1962,
Exhibit E

$ 5 .000 00

The acc0111pa.nying notes are an integral part of the financial sta.·tements.

Increase in Reserve
Balance , June 30, 1962,
Exhibit E

286, 779.37
220. 917 . 07
$886 , 078 13

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statement&.

370

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDlJL! 4

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1962

DETAILS OF EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1962 and 1961

Oecoto Home operating expense:
$
Resident s' maintenan ce
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
General, plant, building s,
and transpor tation
Administ rative
Covina Home operating expense:
Resident s' maintena nce
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
General, plant, building s,
and transpor tation
Administ rative
Relief outside of Masonic Homes
Administ rative and general
expense:
Insurance
Grand Lodge - secretar ial
and other services
Office salaries
Field investiga tions
Pensions for retired
employee s
Taxes on payrol ls
Auditing services
Trustees ' expenses
Expense of appraisin g Homes
Office supplies and printing
Taxes on Homes
Investme nt counse l .f ee
Securitie s safekeep ing
Telephon e
Reimburse ment of Endowmen t
Fund expenses (inc luding
reimburse ments to Grand
Lodge of $13,996.3 2 in
1961- 62 and $13,850.8 3 in
1960-61)
Grand Lodge trip to Decoto
Miscellane ous
Retireme nt income plan (Note 7)
Total, Exhibit B

Increaae
(Decre•H. l..

1961-1962

1960-1961

361, 951. 96
334,219.1 5
27,804.76

315,147.6 7
300,464.8 5
25,219.04

$ 46,804.29
33,754.30
2,585. 72

69,560.74
113,472.9 1
907 ,009 .52

59,904.42
104,171. 78
804,907 . 76

9,656.32
9,301.13
102, 101, 76

92,703 . 28
19,132.48
24,412.17

88,869.32
17 ,302.03
29,272.82

3,833.96
1,830.45
(4,060.65 )

47. 799.00
45,089.89
229,136.8 2

44, 964. 76
40,632.99
221,041.9 2

10,855.01

25,875.40

2,834.24
4,45i·2!!.
8 I 09 I 2!!.
(7 ,02Q.~i)

31,656.03

31.781.63

(125.60)

. 24,000.00
5,054.50
12,863.57

20,000.00
4 ,500.00
13 ,085.41

4,000.00
554.50
(221.84)

. 2,968.80
20,764.97
3,500.00
3,426.63

(625.00)
2,699.49

3,011.21
5,734.55
4,500.00
1,500.00
693 . 44

3,593.80
18,065.48
3,500.00
3,189.02
13,349.63
5,559.10
5,944.40
4,500.00
1,200.00
475.13

14,412.23
3,527.30
405 . 98
138,019.2 1

15, 096.62
1,572.75
941. 37
146,354.3 4

(684.39)
1 ,954.55
~535.lf,
(a 335.0

33,553.38

26,468.21

7 ,085.17

$1,326.57 3,94

$1,224, 6 47,63

$1Ql,926 ]1

$

371

Basie of Accounti ng:
The financia l statemen ts are stated on the cash basie of
accoun ting on which basis revenue and expense are recorded on the
books of account when received and paid, respectiv ely. Current
operating expense bills applicab le to the year ended June 30, 1962
and unpaid at that date were of nominal amount.

llote 1.

Investme nts:
Investme nts in securitie s purchased are stated on the books
bequest
and in this report at cost. Securitie s received by gift or
t
or by assignme nt by resident s of the Home at Decoto are stated aor
estimated market value at the time the securitie s are received
a
at the nominal value of $1 if the market value is unknown. In
by gift
few instances the carrying value of u nlisted stocks acquiredunderlyin
g
or bequest has been restated at the per share value of the
. .sets of the company which is believed to be less than the market
value .

Bote 2.

Notes Receivab le:
Notes receivab le ar ise from the sale of real estate
at
assigned to Masonic Homes of Californi a by residents of t he Heme
Decoto and from real estate received as gifts o r bequests by the
HOllles or the Permanen t Endowme nt Fund.

Sote 3.

Other Assets:
Other assets consist of paid-up life insurance policiee
and real estate assigned to Masonic Homes of Californ ia by residents
of the Home at Decoto or received as gifts or bequests by the
Pe.r manent Endowmen t Fund. The life insurance policies and parcels
for
of real estate are e ach recorded at the nominal value of $1 ly
accounta bilit y. Payment by Masonic Homes of .loans previ o us real
obtained by the assignors on life insurance policies or on
estate and of life insurance premiums are added t o the nominal ·
value .

Rote 4.
237.61
(13,349.6 3)
(2. 547 .89)

(209.85)
300.00
218.31

t..
The accompan ying notes are an integral part of the financia l statemen

Land, Building s, and Equipmen t:
Land, building s , . and equipmen t a re recorded at the cost
and
when originall y purcha sed and no depreci a tion of building s ents
of
equipmen t has been provided for in the a ccounts. Replacem
original iteJllB are charged to one of the Reserves for Special
.Purpose• establish ed by the Board of Trustees .
Note 5.

372

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LI FORN IA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN IA

373

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1962

LYBRAND. Ross BROS. &. MONTGOMERY
CE R'rl P"ICD P U BLI C ACCO UNT AN T S

Note S. Land , Buildings, and Equipment (Cont inued):
Additions to the Decoto and Covina Homes during the year
amounted to $18,465.09 and $6,076.97, respectively , for items of
Inc luded in these totals were the amounts
furniture and equipme nt.
of $8,600. 00 and $4,000.00, respectively , representing the es timated
value of donated i tems of furniture and equipment.

An appraisal made in 1961 by the Ge neral Appraisal Company,
primarily for insuranc e valuation purposes, placed a depreci ated
replacement value on the struc tures, buildings, and contents at the
Deco to and Co vina Homes of $5,332,438.4 9 and $1,884,657.5 1,
respectively .
Note 6.

Reserves for Special Purposes:

The Trustees of Masonic Homes have established seven
special r eserves {see Schedule J, pages 1, 2, 3, 4 , and 5) t o which
are credited gifts and bequests and o ther amounts which generally
are used a t the direct ion of the Trustees for purposes other than
direct operating expenses. The a s sets represented by these r e serves
are included in the assets of the General Fund.
Note 7.

Retirement Income Plan:

The total past service and curren t service coats to
June JO , 1962 as determined by the a c tuary , under the contributory
retirement income plan adopted by Masonic Homes of California as of
January 1, 1955, have been paid.

O NE:

Bus.-.

STAC(.T

SAN F RANCI SCO 4
YU"IO H 1· e l l l

To t he Trustees o f
California Mason i c Me mo rial Temple,
California Masonic Memorial Temple,
1111 California Street,
San Francisco 8 , California.
We have examined the s tatement o f assets , liabilities, and
fund balance arising from c ash t ra nsactions, of CAl.IFORNIA MASONIC
MEMORIAL TEMPLE, a Californi a non profit corporation , as of June 30,
1962 and t he rel a t e d statement o f income r e ceived and expenses disbursed for the year then ended . Our examination was made in accordance
with g e n e rally accepte d audi ting standard s , and a ccor d i ngly inc l uded
such tests of t h e account i ng records and s u ch other auditing procedures
as ~e considered necessary in the c ircumstances.
I n o u r opinion, the a ccompanying sta tements present fairly
the assets , l iabilitie~ , and fund ba l ance of ca l iforni a Mason i c
Memorial Temp le, at June JO, 1962, a rising p rimarily f rom cash transactions , and the income received a n d expenses di sbursed by it for the
year then e nded, on a basis consistent wi th that of the prec edi ng year.
We attac h the foll<JWing :

Schedule 1

State ment of assets, liabilities
a n d f u nd balance
State me nt of income r eceived and
e x pen ses disbursed
Summary of contributio ns received

Sched u le 2

Detail of expenses

'!Wo Pages

Notes to fi n a n cial statements

Exhibit A
Exhibit B

Certified Public Accountants
July 20, 1962

374

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

EXHIBtT A

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAI, TEMPLE

1961-1962

A S S E T S:
$
$

734,303.90
5,198,764.86
209,835.51

Total assets

75,311.97

6,142,904.27
$6.218.216,24

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
Liabilities:
Notes payable to banks - Note 2
Contract payable to architect Note 3
Deposits for rental of space
by public
Withholdings from employees for
pension trust
Reserve for renewals and
replacements - Note 4

$1,313.. 790.00
47,503.00
4,750.00
46.98
3,357.00

Total liabilities

$1,369,446.98

Fund balance:
Contributions - Note 5:
Received prior to
$4,926,698.47
July 1, 1961
Received during year
ended June 30, 1962 370,986.68
Schedule 1
Total contributions
Net expense of Temple
building:
Net expense to July 1,
1961

Net expense for year
ended June 30, 1962 0
Exhibit B
Net expense to
July 1, 1962
Fund balance
Total liabilities and
fund balance

EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF INCOME RECEIVED AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
For the years ended June 30, 1962 and 1961

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1962

Cash on hand and in banks
Memorial Temple property (at cost):
Land
Building
Furniture and fixtures ·

375

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

5,297,685.15

Rentals and miscellaneous income:
Rent of space to public
Rent of control panel
Clean-up charges
Sundry rentals and income
Rent of garage
Rent of Grand Lodge space
Interest received on savings
bank deposits
Total rentals and
miscellaneous income
Building expense:
Salaries - Schedule 2
services - Schedule 2
Maintenance - Schedule 2
Insurance - Schedule 2
Real property taxes
Total building expense
Excess of building expense
over rentals and
miscellaneous income
Other expense:
General and administrative Schedule 2
Interest on notes payable
Addition to reserve for renewals
and replacements - Note 4
Total other expense
Net expense for year

1960-1961

$ 36, 725. 00 $ 29,450.00 $
276.00
150.00
8,245.00
5, 725.00
1,526.81
555.31
36,851.81
45,801.31
46,836.31
51,012.19
18,000.00
18,000.00

Increase
(Decrease)
7,275.00
126.00
2,520.00
(971.50)
8,949.50
4,175.88

2,060.60

1,865'.06

195.54

116,874.10

103,553.18

13,320.92

32,968.71
28, 291. 56
5,005.12
8,847.19
55,105.28

30,182.86
24,927.16
4,238.04
3,382.53
56,232.58

2,785.85
3,364.40
767.08
5,464.66
(1,127.30)

130,217 .86

118,963.17

11,254.69

13, 343. 76

15,409.99

(2,066.23)

5,581.57
55,151.60

7,360.95
65,751.52

(1, 779.38)
(10,599.92)

1,169.00

1,036.00

133.00

61,902.17

74,148.47

_(12,246.30)

$ 75.245.93 $ 89.558.46 $(14.312.53)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

373,669.96
75,245.93
448,915.89
4,848, 769. 26.
$6,218.216.24

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

376

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

377

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SCHEDULE l

CALIFORNIA. MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

SCHEDULE 2

DETAIL OF EXPENSES
For the years ended June 30, 1962 and 1961

SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
For the year ended June 30, 1.962

Increase
1961-1962 . 1960-1961 (Decrease)

Grand Lodge F. & A. M.:
1961 annual returns:
Master Masons on June 30, 1961 @ $1.00
per capita
contributions of initiates@ $9.00 each,
1960-61 fiscal year

Salaries:
· Salaries:
Building manager
Engineer
Janitors
Miscellaneous
$239,931.00
14, 598. 00
254,529.00

Contributions of initiates@ $9.00 each,
1961-62 fiscal year

44,136.00
298,665.00

Less, refunds and adjustments

450.00
298,215.00

Individual contributions
Total contributions received during year
ended June 30, 1962 - Exhibit A

72, 771.68
$370.986.68

Payroll taxes
Retirement plan
Welfare and medical
Total
Services:
Janitorial. services
Janitor supplies
Gas
Electricity
Elevator services
Water
Telephone and telegraph
Scavenger
Miscellaneous
Total
Maintenance:
carpentry
Painting
Plumbing
Masonry, plaster:ipg, and glazing
Electrical
Miscellaneous
Total
Insurance: ·
Fire - annual premiwn
Public liability - three year
premiwn
Workmen's compensation - annual
premiwn
Boiler and machinery - three year
premiwn
Total
General and administrative:
Legal and auditing services·
Stationery, printing, and postage
Personal property taxes
Miscellaneous
Total

$ 6,000.00 $ 6,000.00
9,600.00 10,000.00 $ (400.00)
12,.454.97 10,755.50
1,699.47
1,674.88
1,996.52
(321.64)
977.83
29 '729 .85 28,752.02
1,368.14
1,228.44
139. 70
1,535.07
1,535.07
335.65
202.40
133.25
32.968.71 30,182.86
2.785.85
8,174.25
764.63
3,269.97
10,014.06
4,338.88
469.89
285.07
218.00
756.81
28,291.~§

5,744.60
948.40
2 ,991.21
9,271. 73
4,340.06
462.86
297.98
259.00
611.32
24,927.1§

2,429.65
(183.77)
278.76
"742.33
(l.18)
7.03
(12.91)
(41.00)
145.49

106.24
558.58
276.10

3,~6414!;!

109.21
287.51
40.30
940.67
1,379.84
2,247.59
5,005.12

1,919.03
1,378.09
4,238.04

2.97
(271.07)
(235.80)
940.67
(539.19)
869.50
767.0s

2,423.86

3,100.02

(676.16)

5, 721.41

5, 721.41

450.02

282.51

167 .51.

251.90
8 1 847.19

3. 382 .53 .

251.90
5,464.66

1,370.85
1,667.79
1,908.00
634.93
$ 5,581.57 $

2,855.00 (l,484.15)
l, 181.31
486.48
1,603.60
304.40
l, 721.04 (1,086.11)
7,360.95 $p, 772.38)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.

378

GRA ND LODG E OP CALIF ORNI A

PROC E EDINGS OF THE

379

nued
NOTES TO FI NANCI AL STATEMENTS , Conti

E
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMOR IAL TEMPL
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1962

Note S - Contr ibutio ns:
Note l - Basis of Accou n ting :
red on the c ash beeis of
The f inanc ial statem ents are prepa ns gener ally not being
actio
trans
,
s
tion
excep
minor
th
wi
,
accou nting
time o f the rec e ipt or payme nt of
taken into ac count , prior t o the
bills unpai d a t J une 30, 1962 were
cash. curr ent opera ting expen se
of nomin al amou nt.
Note 2 - Notes Payab le to Banks :
ed by a fi rst deed of t rust
Notes pay able to banks are secur
repay a ble in mini mum annua l
are
tes
no
The
ty.
roper
p
real
on the Te mp le
uing annua lly until Oc tober 4 ,
ontin
c
000,
$120,
g
gatin
aggre
ts
insta llmen
id shall
princ ipal a nd inter est then unpa
1965, on which da te all sums of
payyear e nded June 30, 1962 , tot al
at
be due and payab le. Durin g the
erest
t
in
se notes . The notes bear
ments of $18 0.000 were made on the
lly April l and Oct ober l
annua
semie
l
payab
,
annum
per
the r a te o f 4%
of each year.
30, 1962 amoun ted to
The b alanc e s of the notes a t June
$1,31 3, 790. as folloW s:
$ 218.9 65
Bank of Amer ica N. T . & s.A.
218. 965
The Ba nk of Calif ornia , N. A.
437,9 30
crocke r-Ang lo Nationa l Bank
437. 9 3 0
Wells Fargo Bank
$1.3 13 . 790

itect :
No te J - Contr act Payab le t o Arch
ble to Alber t F. Ro ller for
'!'he ba lance of the contr act paya
of the Temp le, amoun ting
tion
ruc
const
the
in
ces
servi
arch itect ural
le in two e qua l ann ua l insta llpayab
s
i
1962,
30,
June
at
03
51
t o $47,5
30 , 1962 , an insta llmen t o f $23,7
me nts. Durin g the y e ar ended June
was paid on this contr act.
Repla cemen ts :
Note 4 - Reser ve for Renew als and
t h e Tru s t e es a uthori~ed
Du r ing the ye ar end e d June 30 , 1960,
l
renew als and repla cemen t s and annua
t he estab li shmen t of a reser ve for one perc ent o f the ann ual gross
to
qual
e
swn
a
of
to
addit ions there
1962
ion for the year end ed June 30,
incom e o f t he Temp le. The addit
not been funde d.
has
rve
se
e
r
This
.
1,169
$
to
aino unted

30, 1962 amo un t to
Contr ibutio n pledg es unpai d a t June
es are not inclu ded in the
appro ximat e ly $42 , 000 . Unpai d pledg
ted.
finan c i al sta teme nts until c ollec
Note 6 - Conti ngent Liabi l ity :
e bui l di ng filed a suit
The gener al contr actor of the Templ
The archi tect, gener al couns el ,
19S8,
,
4
t
Augus
on
e
Templ
the
again st
e h aa
t i on is with o ut merit . The Te•pl
and trust ees conte nd that this ac . Addi tiona l relat ed i ssue• also
r
o
filed an Anave r a nd Cross -Com plaint
se
omi
may be resol ved by compr
have been raise d . These matte rs
of t he Temp le will be vi qoro usly
n t t le d by trial . The inter es ts
l.
e
s
coun
its
by
cuted
proae

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
Annual Report 1961- 1962
Names of Residents-MEN-Average Age: 81.70 Years
•Indicates admission during current year.
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Age
T own
Ahlborn, George C.H. • .. Oct. 10, '61 Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ....81
Anderson, Alfred H .....Sept. 25, '51 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco .... 89
Applegarth, Edward M ...June 4, '60 Acorn .................. 494 Oakland ................86
Bacon, Herbert W ......... Mar. 23, '61 Russian River .. 181 Windsor ................82
Barnes, Wm. H ............. July 2, '59 L ive Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................79
Beckmann, Carl A. ........May 3, '51 Liberty ................ 299 Santa Clara ..........79
Bennett, L ester E. • ........Oct. 9, '61 Golden State .... 358 Los Angeles ........80
Beer, Leslie ....................Dec. 19, '60 Woodstock ......... .491 Alameda ................ 61
Biehl, William F. • ........ Sept. 28, '61 Crocker ..............454 Daly City ..............94
Bogan, Cleo .................. Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio .... 668 Banning ................82
Bolton, George F ........... Oct. 26, '55 Corinthian ........ 9 Marysville ............92
Bradley, Arthur B ......... Dec. 3, '60 University .......... 394 Los Angeles ........82
Bremser, Arthur H ....... July 9, '60 East Gate ... .......290 Los Angeles ........ 81
Brown, Frederick A. .... Oct. 17, '57 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............83
Burt, Byron, H ...............Dec. 6, '56 Molino ................ 150 Tehama ................77
Carlson, Carl 0 . ............Feb. 17, '61 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ....72
Cas e, Byron W............. Mar. 11, '60 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ................72
Casey, Newman H ....... Mar. 26, '55 Santa Barbara .. 192 Santa Barbara ....85
Chapman, Dorr G. • .... Aug. 19, '61 Corona ................324 Pasadena .............. 85
Cicero, Carmel .............. May 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................81
Condon, Wilbert S ....... J an . 11,'42 Apollo ..................396 Alameda .............. 86
Covell, William A. ........ Nov. 12, '60 Consuelo ............325 Escondido ............83
Covington, James G ..... Aug. 30, '57 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........ 79
Crozier, Alfred B .........June 26, '60 Semper Virens .. 552 Eureka .................. 79
Darby, Bruce M. ........Sept. 23, '60 Signal .................. 543 Long Beach ........ 84
Deardorff, Charles D ...Dec. 7, '59 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez .............. 80
Diefenbach, William• .. Feb. 20, '62 Solano ................229 Vallejo .................. 80
Dixon, J ames G . ..........June 11, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 80
Donaldson, Charles ...... Feb. 14, '58 Marin ........ ....... ... 191 San Rafael .......... 85
Dresser, Walter P ......... Jan. 29, '60 Melrose .............. 602 Los Angeles ........89
Driver, John H . • .......... Nov. 10, '61 Belmont Shore .. 716 Long Beach .......... 84
DuBois, Andrew B ..... Apr. 30, '58 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................ 79
Duebel, Charles ............Apr. 5, '58 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 83
Dunn, John M.• ............ Feb. 9, '62 Henry S. Orme ..458 Los Angeles ........ 69
Dye, Melvin .................... Dec. 12, '60 Visalia ........ ........ 128 Visalia .................. 62
Dzaroogian, Marsob .... May 19, '60 Vallejo ................ 487 Vallejo ..... .............65
Eckstein, Joseph G. • .... Feb. 21, '62 Argonaut ............ 461 San Francisco ....77
E vans, Alfred R. ..........June 6, '61 Howard .............. 37 Yreka .................... 77
Fis her, Harry F . • ........ Aug. 28, '61 King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco .... 80
Finch, Walter E. • ........May 23, '62 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ............ 76
Frare, Giacomo ............Apr. 1, '51 Sp. ltaliana ......219 San Francisco ......81
French, John S .............Feb. 4, '61 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ...... 79
Frost, Harold G .............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ................ 537 Los Angeles ........72
Gammon, Rodger• ......Sept. 9, '61 Van Nuys ......... .450 Van Nuys ............73
Gerhart, William E .....Feb. 10, '61 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ... ..... 88
Gillespie, Earl L .............Apr. 15, '61 Martinez .............. 41 Martinez .............. 85
Giannini, Egisto• ....... .Apr. 19, '62 Sp. ltaliana ...... 219 San Francisco ...... 72
Gilliland, Thomas W. • .. May 19, '62 All States .......... 593 Long Beach ..... .....84
Godfrey, Henry S .........July 25, '54 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ............... .91
Gray, Arthur ................ May 12, '60 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................76
Green, Robert F . .......... May 7, '58 Curtis .................. 140 C loverdale ............ 82
Groom, Francis G ......... Oct. 24, '58 Lakeshore .......... 551 Oakland ................ 84
Hagemann, H enry F .....Feb. 24, '61 Hermann ............127 San Francisco ......78
Haley, Michael C. • ...... Nov. 4, '61 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne ..........77
Hascall, Andrew ............ Oct. 3, '60 Charity .............. 362 Campbell .............. 81
Hendricks, George G ... Sept. 26, '59 All States ............ 593 Long Beach .......... 80

Admitted
Name
No.
lodge
Age
Town
Hawkins, Mortimer ....Apr. 4, '61 Yerba Buena ... .403 Oakland ................79
Hermans, Howard S ..... Oct. 31, '60 Corona ................324 Pasadena ..............72
Hickey, Frank J ...........May 27, '60 So. S. F . .............. 212 San Francisco ...... 87
Hopper, William H .....Dec. 11, '57 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........ 88
Hopping, Charles• ........ June 27, '62 Whittier .............. 323 Whittier ................ 85
Hyde, Ross E . • .............. Feb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles ........ 75
Jack, Charles P . ............ Jan. 9, '38 P residio ..............354 San Francisco ......83
Jackson, Elwell R. • ....June 7, '62 Henry Knox ...... 662 Los Angeles ........75
Jefts, Benjamin J ......... Oct. 27, '48 Justice ................ 549 San Francisco ......89
Jeffers, Leonard M . ....Dec. 9, '60 Curtis .................. 140 Cloverdale ............76
Jensen, James, Sr . ........July 27, '60 Balder .................. 393 San Francisco ...... 90
Johnson, Gustave E .....Aug. 28, '56 Balder .................. 393 San F rancisco ...... 84
Jones, Alfred• ................Oct. 27, '61 Crocker ..............454 Daly City ............74
Keen, Cassius H . ............Dec. 15, '51 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........92
Kempen, William• ........ Apr. 11, '62 Inglewood .......... 421 Inglewood ............ 83
Kempf, William A.• ....Dec. 1, '61 Doric .............. ...... 216 San Francisco ...... 64
Kennard, Joseph W..... Oct. 19, '56 Centi>r ............... .465 Fresno .................... 73
Leonhardt, Richard M ...May 16, '61 California .. ........ 1 San Francisco ...... 88
Little, J. Arthur• ........ Mar. 28, '62 Silver Trowel .... 415 Hollywood ........... 80
London, Morris W. ........ May 6, '57 Foothill .............. 564 Oakland ................ 94
Lowther, Lawrence R. ..June 25, '57 Guardian ............ 596 South Gate .......... 83
Luchs, J ohn C. • ............July 15, '61 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............ 80
Luethge, John C ......... Sept. 16, '60 Provident .......... 609 Sacramento .......... 77
Lyons, George W ...........F eb. 6, '59 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ..................94
McCall, William .......... Sept. 4, '56 Orov ille .............. 103 Oroville ................ 96
McGraw, John H .........June 27, '58 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........ 82
Mann, William J ......... Aug. 4, '60 Eas t Belt ....... ..... 391 Tuolumne ............86
Martin, Ernest• ...... ...... Jan. 11, '62 Live Oak ........... 61 Oakland ................82
Mason, Fred R. • ............ Feb. 22, '62 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........ 78
Martinsen, Thomas A. .. Nov. 19, '57 Tehachapi ..... ..... 313 Tehachapi ............ 72
May, Fred ...................... Aug. 15, '51 Friendship ........ 210 San Jose .............. 98
Mearns, John C . ....... ..... Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ...... 88
Meinbress, Harry •......... Aug. 29, '60 Brooklyn ...... ...... 225 Oakland ................76
Milkop, Martin ............June 24, '61 Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco ...... 85
Miller, Frank• ..............Feb. 8, '62 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ......... .80
Moody, Bertrand F . .... Aug. 12, '60 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................86
Moulthrop, Carlton C ...Apr. 11 , '59 Oak Grove ........ 215 Alameda ................ 77
Murray, James B .........Apr. 17, '53 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............82
Musto!, Samuel J. • ...... July 18, '61 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ..........86
Myers, Robert ..............Oct. 12, '57 Fidelity .............. 120 San Francisco ......83
Neal, Frank M . ..............Oct. 28, '60 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ............80
Niebling, Wm. F . ....... Aug. 27, '58 Capital City ...... 499 Sacramento .......... 84
Nielsen, Andrew T .• .. Sept. 18, ' 61 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ...... 91
Oakley, Charles W .....Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ............ 129 Wheatland ............ 85
Ollson, Les ter E ........... Aug. 24, '59 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............75
Payne, John S. • ............ Aug. 3, '61 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........87
Peale, Charles W ......... Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ........ 451 Montebello ..........79
Porter, William G . ........Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ................ 537 Los Angeles ........88
Powell, William H ..... Sept. 23, '55 West Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles ........ 87
Price, William L .........Feb. 18, '54 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ...... 76
Randall, Finelle K . ......May 17. '60 Sojourner ..........607 Monrovia ..............89
R andolph, George E ..... Feb. 6, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland .........:...... 94
Reinhold, Ga briel ........Sept. 30, '56 Bay City ............ 526 San Francisco ...... 82
R ichardson, William T. July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......580 Ra mona ................ 69
R idley, Alvin• ..............Feb. 1, '62 East Bay ............489 Berkeley ..............92
Roberts, Owen I. ............Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ...................... 79
Robertson, George H ...Mar. 15, '61 Maricopa ............434 Maricopa .............. 91
Roche, George E ...........Feb. 15, '61 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ............ 89
Roche, George W .........Jan. 18, '57 So. Pasadena .... 367 So. Pasadena ........ 87
Rosenzweig, Sam ..........Jan. 6, '60 Argonaut ............461 San Francisco ......66

381

382

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Rossi, Valentino ............May 13, '59 Roosevelt ..........500 San Francisco ......93
Rumfelt, Clarence P ...Jan. 19, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................86
Schooley, Auburn L ..... Mar. 2, '59 East Bay ............469 Berkeley ..............88
Schroder, John G . ........Mar. 24, '61 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ......85
Shannon, Lewis P .......Jan. 28, '59 Arlington ..........414 Los Angeles ........86
Shields, Samuel A .......June 25, '55 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............96
Short, Benjamin A. ........Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside ..........577 Los Angeles. ........78
Sinclair, Sidney C. • ....Jan. 17, '62 Hammonton ......433 Sutter ....................71
Souter, John H. • ..........Aug. 11, '61 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................82
Sparks, Warren T .........Jan. 6, '59 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............80
Specht, Frank M. ........May 9, '60 Crocker ..............454 Colma ....................75
Steigelman, Warren H. Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower .......... 523 Bellflower ............79
Stewart, Charles ............ Apr. 5, '61 San Juan ............ 732 Fair Oaks ............81
Stewart, James 0 ........ .Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ...........: 78 San Andreas ........91
Strain, William R. ........June 11, '60 The Gardens .... 621 Los Angeles ........77
Street, Alvin C .............Apr. 14, '55 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............89
Sutherland, George W ...July 13, '53 Clovis ..................417 Clovis ....................82
Sutherland,
William M .................Mar. 10, '58 Redondo ............328 Redondo Beach ....85
Swanson, George N. • .. Mar. 15, '62 Needles ..............326 Needles ................81
Taforo, Charles R. ........ Nov. 18, '57 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................75
Thompson, Elmer F .....Feb. 4, '56 Meridian ............667 Glendale ..............76
Townsend, Albert E .....Aug. 12, '60 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........89
Townson, James T.• ....Feb. 14, '62 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................87
Waldeyer, Wilhelm• ....Oct. 10, '61 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ......81
Wallis, Abraham G ....... Nov. 2, '47 Midway ..............426 Taft ........................ 78
Wakeman, George• ......May 12, '62 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne ..........81
Warden, Robert A. ...... June 1, '56 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............83
Waterman, Alfred S .....Feb. 28, '55 Russian River .... 181 Windsor ................84
Weinberg, Harry• ........Apr. 9, '62 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ...... 76
White, Harry C .............Dec. 4, '54 East San Diego .. 561 San Diego ............81
Whittard, Ernest A .....Apr. 25, '61 Bear Mountain .. 76 Angels Camp ......90
Wilder, William R. ......Dec. 5, '58 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ..............79
Wilson, Sidney G.• ......Jan. 6, '62 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ................75
Wilson, Thomas R .........Aug. 24, '59 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................78
Zuck, James R ...............Feb. 11, '56 Carmel ................680 Carmel ..................85
Name

Admitted

Deatha-MEN-1981-1962
No.
Lodge
Died

Age
Town
Armbruster, Wm. F .....Sept. 1, '61 Amity ..................370 San Francisco ......81
Barton, Clarence K. ....Dec. 4, '61 Sun Garden ...... 530 Fresno ..................82
Brown, Robert Grover Sept. 6, '61 Fort Crook ........ 575 Fall River Mills..73
Cole, Frank W ...............Jan. 15, '62 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara ....73
Darolles, Jean Louis ....Jan. 26, '62 Francis Drake ....376 San Francisco ......80
Davidson, Thomas A ...Jan. 9, '62 North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones ............ 93
Friberg, Carl G .............Feb. 7, '62 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............79
Gifford, Ottie E . ............May 9, '62 S . F ,vVictory ......360 San Francisco ......77
Guthrie, Edmond P .....Jan. 1, '62 Redlands ............ 300 Redlands .............. 87
Halstead, George T .....Apr. 21, '62 Molino ................ 150 Tehama ................ 88
Hanson, Oscar C ...........Dec. 20, '61 Palisades ............ 637 Santa Monica ......77
HareJ Darrell A .............Jan. 19, '62 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......86
Henaricks, Alfred ........Jan. 21, '62 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................ 80
Johnson, James ............Mar. 26, '62 South Park ........ 563 Los Angeles ........85
Lafkas, Michael ............May 29, '62 Santa Barbara .. 192 Santa Barbara ....78
McKellips, Daniel 0 ...July 5, '61 Park Boulevard.. 568 Oakland ................93
Martersteck, David ......July 10, '61 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ................ 78
Mosegaard, Alfred C... Nov. 22, '61 Alameda ............ 167 Fremont ................'11
Olincy, Harry ..............Aug. 31, '61 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ........76
Ray, Thomas Allen ......Jan. 12, '62 Baldwin Park ....660 Baldwin Park ......79
Name

383

Age
Died
Town
No.
'Lodge
NantJ!
Raymond, William P ...July 20, '61 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................15
Raynor, Clarence R. ....Jan. 25, '62 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........93
Robinson, Amos ............Jan. 20, '62 Fresno ................247 Fresno .................. 79
Smith, Pierson D .........June 16, '62 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................87
Sterling, John W .........May 9, '62 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............92
Valentine, Eugene P ...Nov. 14, '61 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........87
Wells, William S .........Jan. 6, '62 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......91
Williams, Charles F .....Jan. 30, '62 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ................ 79
Wood, Frederick ..........Sept. 20, '61 Corona ................324 Pasadena ..............76
Wynman, William H ... Mar. 14, '62 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo ..................81
Withclrawala-MEN-1960-1961

Mathes, William W ..... Mar. 7, '62 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ................82
Williams, James T ..... Nov. 27, '61 South Park ........563 Los Angeles ........78

384

PROCEED INGS OF THE

MASONI C HOMES OF CALIFO RNIA
UNION CITY, CALIFOR NIA
·
Annual Report 1961-1962
.
Names of Resident s-WOME N-Avera ge Age: 81.42 Years or 81 yrs. 4 mo.
•Indicate s admissio n during current year.
.Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Abbott, Sarah E ...........Mar. 10, '60 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ···-···76
Allen, Maude ....•...........Aug. 22, '58 Lexingto n .......... 104 El Monte ..............80
Allred, Rosa ....................Feb. 27, '60 Mt. Davidson ....481
Francisco ......81
Ames, Myra D .............May 8, '54 Delano ................309 San
Delano ..................75
Anderson , Hattie M.....May 30, '57 Jewel ..................374 San Francisco ...... 88
Anderson , Mary A. ....Sept. 9, '60 San Mateo ..........226 San Mateo ..........83
Andrews , Lela M.........Sept. 2, '58 Friendsh ip ........210 San Jose
..............86
Appel, Henrietta H .....Aug. 12, '60 Vermont Square· 515 Los
........77
Armstron g Emma R.• ..May 3, '62 Golden Rule ......479 San Angeles
Jose ..............79
Ashbrook e' Minnie M ...Apt. 16, '57 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles
........85
Baker, Macy A. ............Aug. 27, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland
88
Barr, Mabel W ............ .May 24, '54 Sacramen to ...... 40 Sacramen................
..........82
Barstow, Eva M.............Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose to
..............80
Bavouset , Cora ............. .Nov. 2, '55 West Adams ......565 Los Angeles
........78
Belknap, Annie L. ......Oct. 24, '56 Tembl~r ..............477 Fellows ................
86
Bell, Edith L. ·······-······.Mar· 29, '58 S. F.-Victor y ......360 San Francisco ......80
Bellmer Eleanor ..........Jan. 25, '61 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................81
Bennett; Rose M. • ........Oct. 9, '61 Golden State ....358 Los Angeles
80
Bergen, Anna ................Nov. 28, '60 S. F.•Victor y ......360 San Francisco........
....87
Biehl, Elsie M. • ............Sept. 28, '61 Crocker ............. .454 Daly City ............
Bielar, Grace* ..............Apr. 23, '62 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........90
76
Biggar, Effie F.• ............Apr. 13, '62 Mission ................169 San
...... 71
Black, Evalita M ...........July 17, '59 King David's ....209 San Francisco
Luis Obispo..81
Bloy, Edith .................... Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmui r ..........297
r ..... ;......90
Blum, Lena ....................May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 Dunsmui
San Diego ............74
Boaz, Georgia E ...........Nov. 6, '59 Oxnard ..............341 Oxnard
.85
Bogan, Selma E ............ Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio ....668 Banning.................
74
Bowman, Ottie B .........Apr. 3, '54 H. M. Stephens .. 541 Berkeley ................
..............
81
Boyer, Maude A. ............Jan. 20, :60 Harbor .................502 Richmon d ............86
Boyer, Mildred A .........Sept. 14, 52 Mt. Monah ........ 44 San Francisco ......90
Brokaw, Leona C .........Apr.17, '58 Humbold t .......... 79 Eureka ·····-···········81
Brown, Jean L .............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa
..........82
Browne, Rachel R .........June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........366 FresnoRosa
. 73
Burrage, Mary E .........June 19, '61 Alcatraz ..............244 O~kl8:11d.................
..............77
Carey, Margueri te G ...June 29, '61 Wilming ton ........ 198 Wilmmgto_n
..........89
Carlson, Lisa ..................Feb. 17, '61 Balder ................393 San FrancISco
...... 68
Carroll, Frances ............Aug. 1, '60 Alameda ............167 Fremont ................
77
Carswell , Adella B. ....Dec. 31, '58 LaFayett e ..........126 Sebastop ol ............90
Carter, Adelia M ...........July 1, '58 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa ~ruz ............89
Castle, Ollie R.• ............Nov. 26, '61 S. W. Hackett ....574 San Di~go ............77
Casterlin e, Mary A. ......Apr. 10, '34 Oceansid e ..........381 Oceansid e ............89
Cheney, Hazel E ........... Aug. 15, '51 Washing ton ........ 20 Sacrament_o
..........76
Childers, Cora ..............June 14, '57 Mission ................169 San FrancISco
85
Cicero, Antoinet te ........Mar. 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ········:········......
·····67
Clark, Elizabeth H. • ....Mar. 14, '62 Richmon d ..........375 San Francisco ......
Clayberg er, Alice J ..... Nov. 16, '59 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ................89
77
Cleghorn , Lulu Belle ..Mar. 15, '61 Caledoni a ......... .486 Bak~rsfield ..........83
Corbin, Elsa B ...............May 31, '61 Clovis ..................417 ClovI.S .................
...78
Cormeny , Rose .............. Aug. 29, '60 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............
86
Cortright , Laura .......... Sept. 7, '54 Durant ................268 B~rkeley ..............
Coward, Anna ................ Oct. 21, '60 McKinle y ..........347 Richmon d ............85
80
Crilley, Jessie ..............July 27, '60 Atascade ro ..........493 Atascader<? ..........94
Crozier, Mary E ........... Aug. 11, '59 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco
......79
Dale, Gertrude ..............Mar. 31, '60 Rockridg e ......... .468 Oakland ................
Darby, Geneviev e M...Mar. 30, '60 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............81
Dibble, Catherin e 0 ..... Sept. 10, '53 Pentalph a ..........202 Los Angeles ........84
85

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

•

t

385

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Diefenba ch, Bertha• ....Feb. 20, '62 Solano ............... .229 Vallejo ..................75
Dillman, Edythe• ..........Mar. 2, '62 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................62
Dixon, Nora E ...............Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles
........87
Donaldso n, J. Elaine ....Feb.14, '58 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ..........
81
Douthitt, Edith A. ........Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco
......85
Dunn, Eleanor R. • ........Feb. 9, '62 H. S. Orme ........458 Los Angeles ........
Dunn, Mabel 1........- .......0ct. 3, '57 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose ..............69
76
Edwards, Emma L .......Nov. 1, '52 Mosaic ................218 Livermor
e ............80
Edwards, Lina M.........May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco
....80
Elliott, Maud M ...........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills .... 528 Beverly
......84
Ely, Eva Estelle ..,.........Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye ..............195 Winters Hills
................79
Evans, Christina ............Mar. 16, '61 Marin ..................191 San Rafael
..........80
Fanning, Jennie H ....... Nov. 4, '57 Oakland ..............188 Oakland
82
Feiling, Idabel C ...........Feb. 3, '59 Mt. View ............194 Mt. View................
81
Figg, Minnie W. * ..........June 20, '62 Franklin .............. 143 Courtland ..............
95
Finch, Bertha B. • ......... .May 23, '62 Cahueng a ..........513 Hollywoo d ............
..........75
Fleming, Thora J •........ Jan. 3, '58 Mendocin o ·····-···179 Mendocino ............80
Foley, Lida E. ·······-····Apr. 18, '55 Bellflowe r ..........523
r ............70
Fox, Bertha B.• ............Mar.12, '62 Parnassu s ..........388 Bellflowe
San Francisco ...... 77
Frank, Dorothy (Ford) Dec. 30, '59 Fidelity .............. 120 San Francisco
......64
Freulich, Helene ..........July 11, '59 Hollywoo d ..........355 Hollywoo d ............
74
Gabbs, Augusta E .........Jan. 30, '57 Carquine z ..........337 Crockett ................90
Garnett, Natalie M.• ....Aug. 7, '61 Mt. View ............ 194 Mt. View ...........-'10
Geibel, Theresa ............Feb. 4, '53 Fairmoun t ..........435 San Francisco ......84
Gerbert, Frances E. ....May 2, '59 Three Pillars .... 613 Sacramen
..........83
Gilbert, Tillie B. ..........Feb. 2, '57 Hillcrest .............. 573 Berkeley to
..............85
Gilliam, Estelle G .......Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ..................615 Hemet .................
...78
Goodwin , Emma ..........June 13, '48 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ........
89
Gundlach , Nancy• ........June 8, '62 Bakersfie ld ........224 Bakersfie
..........78
Hansen, Grace Z .........Jan. 11, '60 Riverban k ..........459 Riverban kld............
74
Hanthorn , Bessie R. • ..Feb. 19, '62 Pt. Firmin ..........558 San Pedro ............85
Hardy, Alice M.............Dec. 27, '54 Rockridg e ......... .468 Oakland
................90
Hare, Violet ..................May 12, '60 Excelsior ....... c•••• 166 San Francisco
....82
Harper, Laura D ........... Nov. 6, '57 Yolo .................... 81 Yolo ......................
79
Harrison, Martha ........ Nov. 19, '52 King Solomon' s ..260 San Francisco ....101
Harter, Clara B .............May 17, '58 Golden Rule ..... .479 San Jose ..............84
Hascall, Mabel M.........Oct. 3, '60 Charity ..............362 Campbel l ..............74
Hawkes, Lelia E. • ........Aug. 11, '61 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno .................
Hawkins , Evelyn ..........Apr. 4, '61 Yerba Buena ... .403 Oakland .................78
78
Hays, Lilian T .............May 5, '55 Center ................465 Fresno .................•
86
Hedburg, Huldah A. ....Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ................247 Fresno ..................83
Belmore, Ada F ...........Oct. 9, '59 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........86
Hendrick son, Frances* ..May 16, '62 Coalinga ............387 Coalinga
..............88
Hepburn, Catherin e ... Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica
......70
Hill, Neva A. ................Dec. 5, '55 Oakland ..............188 Oakland
................ 78
Hinze, Henrietta M.....Jan. 27, '54 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................77
Hitchcock , Stella ..........Sept. 29, '61 McKinley ............347 Richmon d ............83
Hoin, Minnie A.• ... _...July 17, '61 S. F.•Victor y ......360 San Francisco ......89
Hollis, Maybelle J ....... Feb.11, '53 F. K. Shattuck ..571 Berkeley ..............78
Hoopes, Jesselyn• ........Feb. 3, '62 Golden West ......455 San Francisco ......69
Hoover, Emma Jane ....Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............82
Hoskins, Elizabeth ........May 3, '55 Lancaste r ............437 Lancaste r _............83
Hyde, Florence M.• ....Feb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles ........ 78
Hyland, Erle Woods ....Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ......530 Fresno ..................75
Hyman, Loretta
(Murray) ................. ...Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ........344 San Francisco ......70
Ireland, Lillian B. • ....Aug. 10, '61 Parnassu s ..........388 San Francisco ......
66
Jackson, Nell Louise• ..June 7, '62 Henry Knox ......662 Los Angeles ........76
Jacobsen , Josephin e ....June 25, '54 So. Californi a ....278 Los Angeles ........ 90
Jakobs, Inez ....................Feb.17, '60 Monterey ............217 Monterey .........•....77

386
Name

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Admitted

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.

Town

Age

Jordan, Evaline ............Mar. 27, '56 Hartley ................199 Lakeport ..............92
Kallstrom, Edith L .....Aug. 29, '60 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ..........88
Kapantais, Edith ......... .Feb. 14, '55 Ionic ....................520 Los Angeles ........78
Kapp, Carrie
(Vorsanger) ................July 16, '49 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ................90
Keller, Agnes C.............Nov. 19, '59 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............80
Kent, Evaline C ...........Sept. 6, '55 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ...... 78
Kirtlan, Minnie E .........Jan. 3, '58 Franklin ............143 Courtland ............ 77
Krejcik, Rose ................. .Feb. 16, '58 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ...... 87
Lafitte, Marie Viola ....Dec. 15, '60 LaParfaite
Union .............. 17 San Francisco ...... 83
Lagomarsino,
Henrietta .................... Sept. 2, '58 Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ......87
Lane, Edith B ...............Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........88
Larter, Gertrude ..........Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........74
Lawrence, Irma A. ......Oct. 20, '58 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ...... 78
Lee, Zida F .....................Mar. 3, '61 Silver Trowel ... .415 Hollywood ............ 70
Lent, Elizabeth D ....... Sept. 29, '59 Yerba Buena ..... .403 Oakland ................83
Locke, Teresa• ..............Mar. 9, '62 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........96
Logan, Alice M .............May 17, '61 Hanford .............. 279 Hanford ···-··········.91
Look, C. Maude ............Mar.16, '59 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............80
Luscombe, Laura C .....June 29, '58 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ......84
Lyon, Della M ...............Sept. 4, '61 Amity ..................370 San Francisco ...... 79
Mackenzie, May W .....June 30, '41 Bay View ..........401 Oakland ••..............83
MacKinnon, Dorothy• ..July 29, '61 Alta Loma .......... 643 Long Beach ........ 74
McAdam, Emma K ..... Sept. 12,'60 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento .......... 79
Mccann, Elizabeth J ...Aug. 4, '59 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ........84
McCord, Zidana M .......Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........87
McDaniel, Elizabeth ....Apr. 12, '58 Atascadero ........493 Atascadero ..........86
McDowell, Alice M .....Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................86
Mciver, Ella W .............July 9, '48 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............87
McNairn, Verda A .......July 29, '58 Wasco ..................583 Wasco .................... 79
Marshall, Lucy M .........June 29, '61 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......73
Matthews, Annie ..........Mar. 9, '56 Sotoyome ............123 Healdsburg ..........97
Mayfield, Mary ............ Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............89
Meck, Lulu M ...............Sept. 14, '55 King David's ......209 San Luis Obispo.. 79
Miller, Catherine E .....Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ..................352 Los Angeles ........ 79
Mitchell, Maude N .......Dec. 20, '54 San Bernardino .. 348 San Bernardino .. 85
Mojonier, Fraida B. • .. May 23, '62 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............ 78
Mudgett, Emma L. • ....Apr. 12, '62 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ...... 90
Murrell, Catherine ......Jan. 12,'52 John Marshall .... 636 Beverly Hills ......83
Nestle, Asenath ............July 7, '59 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........77
Neumann, Frances G ...July 9, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........83
Nicolaus, Erma
(Robinson) ..................Jan. 27, '59 Unity .................. 368 Glendale ..............67
Nielsen, Este M .............Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................84
Nussbaum, Ida ..............Feb. 23,'60 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................83
Olsen, Minnie ................May 28, '52 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka .................. 79
Olsh, Sophia ..................Apr. 25, '60 Union .................. 58 Sacramento .......... 76
Pace, May E. (Taforo) ..Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz .......... 71
Peacock, Katie C.........Mar. 25, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................89
Perryman, Stella May .. Aug. 3, '59 Signal .................. 543 Long Beach ........83
Pfeiffer, Nina F ............ .Mar. 17, '58 Pinole ..................353 Hercules .............. 79
Pitner, Eva H ...............Jan. 27, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........88
Pitts, Adelaide S .........Feb. 5, '54 Mendocino ..........179 Mendocino ............82
Prentice, Rose ..............June 30, '45 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............93
Prucha, Velma F .........Feb. 19, '57 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............ 71
Purcell, Susie M ...........Oct. 19, '57 California ............ 1 San Francisco ...... 8'1
Raby, Gertrude L .......Dec. 17, '57 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 83

.

387

Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Ray, Ada E. • ................Aug. 18, '61 Baldwin Park .... 660 Baldwin Park ...... 77
Reasoner, Marie (Jefts) July 21, '48 Normal Heights.. 632 San Diego ............80
Rogers, M. Isabel ..........May 6, '61 Bixby Knolls .... 699 Long Beach .......... 75
Roberts, V. Myrle ........Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................78
Rose, Mary ....................Sept. 6, '56 Mission ................189 San Francisco ......88
Ross, Jean ................... _Apr. 16, '58 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ...... 76
Rounds, Florence B. ..June 12, '54 Jonathan ............ 545 San Francisco ......90
Russell, Sybil A. ..........Sept. 17, '60 Utopia ................537 Hollywood ............81
Ryder, Bertha ................Oct. 17, '58 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ........ 78
Salter, Julia A. ............Jan. 5, '54 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ...... 92
Sanders, Edith P .........Apr. 5, '58 Inglewood ..........421 Inglewood ............87
Sauer, Laura• ..............July 26, '61 Hermann ............ 127 San Francisco ......74
Schooley, Mary A. ........Mar. 2, '59 East Bay ............489 Berkeley ..............85
Schumacher, Cora E.• ..Mar. 26, '62 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ..............84
Scovel, Marie M ...........July 4, '58 Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ............66
Seagrave, Edna R. ........May 14, '52 Palo Alto ..........346 Palo Alto ............77
Seymour, Laura ............Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu ........... _.84
Shanks, Ella ..................Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ...............91
Shenick, Eleanor ..........Aug. 2, '57 W. Los Angeles ..373 W. Los Angeles ..81
Sibley, Mabel L ........... Sept. 23, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ae
Slocumb, Mabel W .......Apr. 25, '56 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........84
Smith, Grace M. ........Sept. 6, '60 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................92
Smith, Hazel L .............Mar. 16, '61 Park Boulevard .. 568 Oakland ···········-··-70
Smith, Lillian L. • ........Oct. 16, '61 El Cajon ............576 El Cajon ..............8'
Smith, Myrtle M ........... Nov. 15, '56 Azure ..................533 Fullerton ..............82
Snowden, Jean E .........Dec. 29, '58 Ferndale ............ 193 Ferndale ..............88
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr.13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........89
Spalding, Olive G .........May 6, '60 Surprise Valley..235 Cedarville ............81
Stapff, Mary S ...............Mar. 29, '60 Doric ..................216 San Francisco ......78
Steigelman, Joan ........Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower ............ 76
Stevenson, Julia M .....Aug. 17, '57 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............81
Stewart, Edna May• ....Dec. 15, '61 East Gate ..........290 Los Angeles ........ 73
Stolle, Lucy E ...............Oct. 29, '59 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......83
Stroud, Laura L ...........June 2, '37 Vacaville ............ 134 Vacaville ..............88
Stromberg, Laura A. ..Mar. 5, '59 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ...... 77
Swain, Sarah C.............Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............83
Sweeney, Sada S ......... Sept. 12, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........87
Thompson, Abbie V..... Nov. 29, '58 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......80
Tier, Sofie ......................Aug. 28, '58 South Park ........ 563 Los Angeles ........82
Timmer, Annie M .......Nov. 30, '59 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 74
Townson, Mary P.• ....Feb. 14, '62 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto .............-.81
Tunstead, Rosa ..............July 5, '57 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco ......85
Tweedy, Mary L ...........Apr. 2, '55 Thousand Oaks ..478 Berkeley ..............82
Waite, Florence ........... Dec. 9, '54 Seal Rock ..........536 San Francisco ......83
Ward, Nina E ...............Dec. 27, '54 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ........84
Webster, Emma ............Feb. 28,'55 Washington ........ 20 · Sacramento ........-91
Wells, Jennie A. ..........Dec. 27, '54 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........94
Wheat, Daisy W .............Dec. 29, '59 Meridian ............667 Glendale ..............84
Whittaker, Ada H. ......Oct. 8, '52 Bay View ......... .401 Oakland ................88
Wilkie, Eva L .............. Aug. 18, '60 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......84
Williams, Annie F ....... Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......82
Williams, Winnie B. • .. Sept. 22, '61 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................82
Wisewell, Evelyn ..........Feb. 18, '54 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......88
Wuster, Yolande V .....Aug. 2, '59 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........71
Wynman, Eva G ......... Sept. 2, '59 Apollo ................398 Alameda ..............85

388

PROCEEDIN GS O F TH E

Deaths-W OMEN-19 61-1962
Name
Lodge
No .
Died
Town
Age
Bell, Clare R. ................Aug. 17, '61 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ......90
Boren, Maud B. ............Feb. 18, '62 Eel River ............147 Fortuna ................87
Brown, Nellie E ...........Jan. 29, '62 Pajaro ..................110 Watsonvill e .......... 79
Caughey, Helen D .........June 26, '62 Vitruvius ..........145 Bloomfield ..........79
Chesworth , Naomi ......Mar. 23, '62 So. P asadena ......367 So. Pasadena ......70
Dalton, Meta C .............Jan. 3, '62 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland................83
Dilling, Margaret M ...July 15, '61 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................84
Dudley, Annie L aura ..July 1, '61 Long Beach ......327 L ong Beach ..........77
Ganison, P earl P . ........July 4, '61 Roseville ............ 222 Roseville ..............84
Grant, Lillian A.
(Hullinger ) ................ Feb. 14. '62 Georgetow n ...... 25 Georgetow n ........87
Green, Cora L ...............Jan. 15, '62 Pajaro ................110 Watsonvill e ..........83
Guintyllo, Mary ............June 5, '62 Monterey ............217 Monterey .............. 82
Guthrie, R ena ..............May 6, ' 62 Buckeye ..............195 Winters ................ 85
Hannah, Hannah May ..July 17, '61 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ......78
Harris, Bertha ............. May 16, '62 Pacific ..................136 San Fra ncisco ...... 85
Hopper, Lotta S ............. July 25, '61 Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles ........87
Hollingswo rth,
Catherin ......................Feb. 15, '62 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ..............78
Hunter, J eanie ..............Jan. 8, '62 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ................ 83
Jobes, Hala S ...............Jan. 6, '62 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........ 93
Johnst on, Ada T . ..........Feb. 18, '62 McKinley ............347 Richmond ............77
Kramer, Alice L. .......... Jan. 10, '62 Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley ..........85
MacAlliste r, Emily ......Feb. 19, '62 Larchmon t ..........614 Los Angeles ........84
Macready, Mattie ........F eb. 2, '62 So. California ....278 Los Angeles ........99
Merrill, Ivy Smith ........ Apr. 18, '62 Illinoistow n ...... 51 Colfax .................. 83
Miller, Nellie M............. Apr. 23, '62 Crocker ..............454 Daly City .............. 76
Perger, Eva ....................F eb. 19, '62 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................85
Resau. Luella ................May 15, '62 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ................9I
Stitt, Cora May ............Jan. 7, '62 Henry S. Orme ..458 Los Angeles ........89
Smith, Mary ..................Mar. 21 , '62 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................77
Thompson , Celia ..........Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ...... 91
Townsend, Jessie ..........June 14, '62 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........86
Wynman, Annie ............June 4, '62 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo ..................87
Withdraw als-WOM EN-1961 - 1962
Brewer, Nana ................May 14, '62 Highla nd P ark ..382 Los Angeles ........79
Gosnell, Ethel ................Feb. 6, '62 Rising Light ......397 Huntington Park ..66
Lingenfeld er,
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ............ 80
Elizabeth ....................Nov. 24, '61
Nielsen, Edith Ollie ....Nov. 28, '61 Miltary Service..570 San Francisco ......77

GRAND LODGI! OF CALIFORNI A

389

CHILDR EN AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1962
Girls- 19
N ame
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
A ge
Archinal, Ka ren ..........Sept. 29, '56 L iberal Arts ......677 Los Angeles .......... 16
Carroll, Christine• ......June 30, '62 Downey ..............220 Downey ................ 14
Caswell, Renee ..........April 5, '57 Arcadia .............. 547 Arcadia ................
14
Cooper, Debrah* ..........N ov. 25, '61 Eden ......... ...........113 San L eandro ........10
Cox, Georgia ..... ...........Aug. 11, '54 Fairfax .............. 556 Larkspur ..............
Cruiks hank, Starlana ..Sept. 14, '59 Plumas ................ 60 Quin cy .................. 17
Hillhouse, Linda J . • ...... J a n . 27, '62 Palms .................. 512 Los Angeles ........ 12
14
Howey, Kathlene• ...... April 29, '62 Culver City ......467 Los Angeles ........ 14
Mann, Mary ....................Mar. 5, '55 Alta Vista ..........464 Daly City ............
17
Ritchie, Linda ................Dec. 13, '58 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward .............. 11
Torrance, Debra• .......... Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........685 San Marino ........ 9
Torrance, Kathy* .......... Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........685 San Marino ........ 7
Torrance, Pamela• ...... Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ........ 5
Torrance, S heryl• ......Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........685 San Marino ........ 4
Werner, Beverly .. ...... Sept. 3, '57 Jas. A. Fos hay....641 L os Angeles ........ 14
Werner, Dian a ............Sept. 3, '57 Jas. A. F oshay....641 Los Angeles ........ 16
Williams, Sharon ....... .. .May 18, '55 Trona ..................684 T rona ...... ..............
16
Williams, Shirley ........May 18, '55 Trona ..................684 Trona ....................16
Yungling, Bar bara ......Oct. 10, '53 Santa Paula ...... 291 Santa Paula .. ...... 16
•Indicates admission during current fiscal year

June 30, 1962
Boys-3 0
Name
A dmitted
Lodge
T own
No.
Age
Archinal, Steven ..........Nov. 12, '56 Liberal A rts ...... 677 Los Angeles ........13
Bloedel, Kurt R. • ........J u ne 16, '62 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ........ 9
Carroll, Harry L.• ........June 30, '62 Downey ..............220 Downey ................
9
Clinkscale, F red ............. J an. 6, '57 Indian Wells ...... 691 Ridgecrest ............15
Cooper, Douglas• .......... Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ....... .10
Cooper, Dwight• ........Nov. 25, '61 E den ................... .113 San Leandro ........ 11
Cooper, William* ........Nov. 25, '61 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ........ 12
Cox, Dennis ................Sept. 7, '55 Fairfax ... ............. 556 Larkspur .. ............11
Cox, Wayne ............ ...... Aug. 11, '54 Fairfa x ................ 556 Larkspur ..............13
Cruikshank , Sidney ....Sept. 14, '59 Plumas .. ...... ....... 60 Quincy .................. 9
Fuller , Don Jr.............S ept. 12, '59 Oakla nd .............. 188 Oakland ................14
Galvery, William• ........ Mar . 11, '62 So. Calif . ............ 278 Los Angeles ........ 18
Hoard, James ................April 8, '55 Morning St ar .... 68 Stock ton ........... ..... 17
Howey, Bruce• ............Apr il 29, '62 C ulver City ... .... .467 L os Angeles ........ 12
Howey, Bud* ..............April 29, '62 Culver City ........ 467 L os Angeles ........
11
Kinnimont , Dave" ......Sept. 6, '61 Euclid ........... .......519 Los Angeles ........ 14
McCormick , John ........ Mar. 1, '59 Damascus ... ....... 648 San Bernardino .... 9
Mann, George ..............Jan. 1, ' 57 Alta Vista............464 Daly City ... .........11
Mann, Thomas ............Mar. 5, '55 Alta Vista............ 464 Daly City ............ 15
Orth, Jerry ... .................July 23, '54 Natoma .............. 64 Folsom ........ .......... 16
Ritchie, Thomas ..........D ec. 13, '58 Eucalyptu s ........243 Hayward ......... ....10
Smith, Andrew• . ........Aug. 4, '61 Cahuenga ............ 513 Hollywood ............15
Smith, Michael• .......... Aug. 4, '61 Cahucnga .... ....... 513 Hollywood ............13
Strauss, Mitchell* ..... ...Feb. 11 , '62 Los Cer ritos ........674 L on g Beach .......... 12
Warrick, Bruce .......... ..Nov. 21, ' 54 Monte Vista ...... 655 L ong Beach ........ 15
Warrick, David ............Mar. 13, '55 Monte Vista ...... 655 Long Beach ........ 12
Warrick, Robert ............N ov. 21, '54 Monte Vista ...... 655 Long Beach ........ 13
Yelusich, Andrew• ......May 13, '62 Point Firmin ......558 San Pedro ............ 8
Yelusich, John• ............May 13, '62 Point Firmin ......558 San Pedro ............11
Yungling, Douglas ........Oct. 10, '53 Santa Paula ......291 Santa P aula ........17
•Indica tes a dmission during current fiscal year

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

390

Departed During the Year, July 1, 1961 to June 30, 1962
Boys- 10
Age
(at the time
Name
Admitted
Departed
of departure)
Barraclough William• June 18, ' 55 ... .. .................... 6-15-62 . ......................... 18
Ferris, Robe'rt (Faulk) .. Jan. 27, ' 5L .... ................... 9-12-61 ............................ 18
Laursen. David ............Mar. 25, '59 ................... ....... 9- 8-61.. .......................... 7
Murray, Daniel ............ June 20, '61.. ...... ................. 6- 9-62 ............................ 12
Murray, David ........... June 20, '61......................... 6- 9-62 ........................... .12
Reitz, Larry ...................Jan. 27, '61.. ..... .................. 6-15-62 ............................16
Scott, Andrew• ............ Sept. 11, '60 .......................... 6-19-62............................17
Smith H. Alan............. Aug. 4, '61... ....................... 11- 9-61... ........................ .16
Stroh.'Robert ................April 8, '58 ........................ .. 8- 3-61... ......................... 15
Warrick, Douglas R ay .. Nov. 21, '54 ............. ............. 3- 1-62............................17

•Indicates graduates

Girls- 2
Age
( at the time
Name
Admitted
Departed
of departure)
Allison, Patricia .......... April 2, '58.......................... 8-26-61.. .........................15
Williams, Linda• .. ....... May 18, '55 .......................... 6-29-62 ............................17

•Indicates graduate

391

KOKE STATISTICS
•naber ot re1ident1 a1 o! Jane )O, 1962 1
Deooto Hoae
---,..---

Men

Woaen

Total

Re1ident1, July l, 1961

143

220

)6)

Ad1'1thd

39

i.2

81

1

Died ind Withdrawn

)1

)7

68

Reeident1, June )0 1 1962

151

225

376

CoY1na Hoae 1
Reeidents, July l, 1961

2S

13

)8

l.daitted

15

8

2J

Or1du1ted and Vi thdravn

10

2

12

Re1ident1, June 30, 1962

30

19

49

PER CU'ITI. COST
State•ant ot Per Capita Coste (Statietical ) !or tn1 Fi101l Tear
Jndin& J une JO, l 9o2 :
~-H~:

Co et ot Maintenance
A••r•a• nuabor o! re1ide nt s
l.Y e rege operating coat pe r a ont n
A"erage cost per day
A•e r ai;e eo•t per re1id ent pe r year
~vera 1; •

cost.

per reside nt pe r no nth

AT er age coet per res1dent per day
ATerage number ot employee a

$ 907 , 009.$2
375
H 5 , 5B ~.13

2,481.. 16
2 ,41 &. 69
201.S6
6.6)
179

Covina~'

t 229 , 1)6.82
4t>

Co et o! Maintenance
.t•era g• nuaber o! res i dent.a

•verag• operating co1t per •ont ll
A••rage c os t. per da7
l.verage eoet per child per rear
iv1r1a• coat per cbi ld p n

"10 ntll

1v1ra1r• coat per child por day
AYe raga nuaber or e•p l oraes

$19, 0911 . 74
627. 77
1i,9t11.21;
415.10
lJ . 65
31

392

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

393

MASONIC HOMES CONTRIBUTIONS
CHRIST!IAS AtID ENTERTAINMENT RE~ERVE

COH1'RI BUTI ONS TO SPECIAL RESERVES

fba Trustee• of the Ha•onic
tribution• received !rom1

(The Lodge deeignati on ind 1catee connection by
intereat but not nece3oarily by •amberahip)

lniiht• Tamplar Commanderieor
Sacramento No. 2
Nevad.a No, 6
Marysville No. 1
San Jose No. 10
Chico No. 12
Santa Rosa No. 14
Golden Gate No. 16
Naval No, 19
WatoonTille No. 22
St. Bernard No. 2)
Colusa No. 24
Visalia No. 26
San Luis Obiopo No, 27
Pasadena Ila. )1

RESERVES FOP. ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
ESTJ. TES:

Charles Dettman (Palisades Lodge #637)
$
Harry Clement Gray (Crocker Lodge #454)
Alice E. Ha••hagen (Crockett Lodge #1J9)
Joshua Henry Kanarr (Le Progr"" de L'Oceaoie #371)
Sallie Ann Lyon (Elsinore Lod ge #289)
Emma E. Pallioar (Argenta Lodge #3, Salt Lake City)
John Ton ningsen (Oriental Lodge #144)
Henry Wacker (Arlington Lodge #414)
Harold G. Washington (Chateau Thierry Lodge 1569)
Robert H. Wright (King Solomon'• Lodge #260)

MI SC:

Kra, i!aron Long

1,200.00
S,41H,20
2,000.00
1,000.00
7.So
u,167.92
7,216,34
2,000 .00
soo.oo
1,714.16

Leon Rufus Saith

EST .I.TES:

Adelarde D. Braeoon (Parnassus Lodge #)88)
3,951.17
Fred ll. Butterf le ld (AleJ:ander Hamilton Lodge #535) 1,000.00
Frank w. Covley
2,639.46
Ward W. Geloer (Oakland Lodge 1186)
10,22$.00
Carrie H. Hambleton (Oriental Lodge 1144)
lu7.78
Loren~o Haskin (Pomona Lodge 1246)
4,246.94
J.lice &William A. Kcintoeh (Wilshire Lodge #44$)
30, 316. 7)
Florence D, McTier
J,149.76
P. w. Newhall
912 .a2
Kadioon T, Ovens (Southern California Lodge #276)
7,648,36
Guy A. Pettit (La Puanta Lodge ,446)
4,670.)5
Foster S, Post
$25.25
Roberta I. Shenefield (Pomona Lodge 1246)
77,193.78
William Henry Whisler (Kount Olive Lodge #506)
2$).90
Harold Newton Wiloon (San Joaq uin Lodge #19)
477.SJ
Charles Francia Wright (Queen Beach Lodge #540)
110.28

MISC t

Air Square Lassie's Club
Gladys F, Bowyer
Fred-Lita Blocka, Inc.
J.lice Greenwood
Vinton v. Katthava

DECOTO SPECUL RESERVE

MISC:

George H. Thomae Circle )2
Ladiea ot the O.A.R,
Whit Henry
J.lbert e. Jacob•

California State Craft #6,
lational Federated Craft

Royal and Select Mastera Counoila1

ll!red Birch. . n lelley
Mre. Ja•ee M. MoClintock
(nH Ban11.ett}

Northern California DaMolar

!.••a.

Sacramento No. 1
California No. 2
Gateway Ho. ll
Paeadena No. 16
Santa Cruz No, 17

J.. " l .
1,000.00
4,416.54
666 .70
1,000.00
19.78
1,194.10
2,619.04
5,215 .)2
69.10
1,000.00
2, 000.00

STUDENTS' LOAN J. ND SCHOLJ.RSH IP FUlfD

>USC.

Sacra:mcnto No. J
Nevada No, 6
Washington No. lJ
Grass Valley No, 16
Franklin No. 20
Petaluma No. 22
Delta No, 27
Ancient No. 31
Santa Cruz No. )6
Vioalia No, L4
DiJ:on No. 48
Hu111boldt No, 52
Signet No, 57
Colusa llo. 60
San Luie No. 62
RiverBide No. 67

Northern California DeHolaT
J.aoociati on
Reah Chapter, Order o!
Golden Slipper
Samuel Orvis Snov

Fred H. Butterfield (llexander Hamilton Lodge 1535)
Celia Knapp Carnell
John B. Carter (Forest Hill Lodge 15'34)
Joseph Fetz (South San Francisco Lodge #212)
Julius E. Fuaoler (Dunssuir Lodge #297)
Knut S, Jernberg (Occidental Lodge #22)
Katt Nathaniel Sims (Lancaeter Lodge #437)
Kabel Spencer (Yorba Linda Lodge 1469)
Leo B. Tanna (Montebello Lodge 1451)
Kae P. Traung (Oriental Lodge 1144)
Hovard Turner (Excelsior Lodge #166)

acknowled ge with appreciation the con-

Mount Sha•ta No. 32
Ukiah No, 3 J
Eureka No, J5
Southern California No, 37
San Francisco No. Ll
Santa Cruz No, 44
Palo Alto No. 47
Alhallbra No. 48
Whittier No, 51
Imperial Valley No, 54
San Padro No , 60
Santa Honie& No, 61
Calv a ry No. 62
Cente nni al No, 74

Royal lrch Mason Cbaptere 1

COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE

ESTATES:

Ho~es

July 1, 1961 - June )0 1 1962

s. R. (Bodies) I
Burlingame
Fresno

Diatrict Officers Asaociations1
356th District
420th District
42lst District
S04th Diatrict
Jluonio Clube 1

Crown No. 72
Hanford No, 74
Pomona Ho. 76
San Pedro No, 69
Whittier No. 91
Palo Alto No. 9)
Santa Konica No. 91
San Gabriol Valley No. 100
Redondo No. 101
Marin No. 102
Hill Valley No, 108
South Paoadana No, 112
Sebastopol No, 117
Huntington Park No. 127
Searchli ght No. lJ)
Wilmington No, 141
Roseville No. 146
Pomona No. 21
Siskiyou No, 24
Viealia No. LJ
Redwood E~pire No, 46
Zabud No. 49
Palo Alto Ho, Sl
Oakland
Saora.me nto
San Jose

5 l 7th Die tric t
S62nd District
$o7th Dietrict
60Sth District
629th Diatrict

!ah•a• Creecant Club
!elephone Masonic Club or L.!,
Long Beach Y.a•onlc Club
San Francisco Square Club
Long Beach 011 Developaent Co, Square & Coapaa• Club

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF OR NIA
PROC EEDINGS OF THE

394

CKRISTHAS ANO !llTERTA l NM~NT RES!RV! (Continued)
De Mclay, Job'• Dau ghter•, Rainbo• !or Olrl•t
South Pasadena Chapter, Order o! DeHol17
8e1l Beach Bethel Ho. 161
Garden OroT• Bethel Mo. 290
Atascadero Asseably Ho. 2)
E11tarn Star and Aaaranth:
Ventura Chapter llo. 79
W1aond aeie Club
Merce d es Chapter llo. 126
Lexington Chapt e r No . 172
Sant a Clara Cnapter 110, 195
San Ratael Chapter No. 215
Atas cadero Chapter No. J44

Thousand Oaks Chaoter llo, 37S
Starlette Club ·
Siloa• Chapter 110 . 406
Me lita Ch apter No. 467
Hi guelito Chapter No. 176
East Bay Ha t rona o! 1951
Gold en Chain Aa•oc lat1on

San Lorenso Valley Cou rt No, 99
Miacellaneo ua1
Hrs. Adel• Lay
Oacar H. Bry ant
Clary Corp. Hanageaent Club, I nc.Hr. & Hr•• La• r e nc• l . Ola1cu1a
Pac1!1c Pr• • • !aploy•••
Co m~unlt y SerTiee Club
Chari tie e Pund
Death Valley Das•
Fisher Gaar & Machin• Co,,Inc. Nonoan Roae
Th•l•• w. SlaTin
lTy I . Kall
w. A. Sloan
J ack Harp ster
Hr. & Hrs. Karry G. Stratford
Hr. & Hrs, H. s. Kart
Dr. & Hr•. s ·tanley T. Uyeda
Harald Express Bane!it Fund
Harry W. Wernee, Jr.
Fred Klckaan
O. s. Whitley
Hohen•r Hea t Co,
s.
F. Vian o ~ & Bonita
~r. & Hre . Pau l r. Le1achner
Lodgae1
Cal1!ornia Ho. l
Weetern Star No. 2
Teha•• No. J
San J oe• No. 10
Yount llo. 12
Ne vada llo. l J
Eureka No• 16
La Par!ai~• Uni on No. 17
San Joaquin llo. 19
Washineton No . 20
Hava1 ian No. 21
Occidental No. 22
Madie on No, 2 )
El Dorado !lo. 26
Tr1nitr No. 27
Golden Cat• No. )O
Gold Hill No . )2
San Diego l!o. 35
Hovard No, 37
Sant a Crus No. )8
Sac r a•ento No. 4 0
Martinez No. 41
Mount Moriah No. 44
Cre•cent 11 0. u5
Texa• No . 46
Santa Ro1a llo. 57
Union No. 56
Pluaaa llo. 60

Li Te Oak No. 61
tnterpri•• No. 70
Yolo No. 81
Y••p•r No. 84
Naval No. 67
St. Helena No, 9)
Ioee•it• No. 99
Clar No. 101
Arcata No . 106
Pa j aro No. 110
Chico No. 111
Iden 110. 113
Conco rd Ko. 117
F1del1ty No. 12 0
AlaJOo No. 122
La!a7ette No. 126
Hermann No. 12 7
Viaali1 No . 121!
llieolaul No. 129
Woodbridt• No. 1) 1
Pac i1'1c No . 1)6
Crockett No. 1 )9
Frankli n No. 14)
orienta l No. ll.4
l•l RiTar Jlo. 147
Mol1no Mo. 150
Woodland No. 156
lxceleior llo. 1 66

395

CKRISTHAS 4ND I NTERTAI MllEN T RESERVE (C ontinued )
Lod&•• (Cont inued) 1
Aluieda No. 167
Redwood City No , 168
Mhe1 on No. 169
Antioch llo. 17 S
Pet alu aa No . 180
h1tb. No . 187
Oakland !lo . 18 8
Kar in No. 191
Santa Barbara No, 192
Mountain View No, 194
Buck•r• No. 1 9$
San Siaeo n No. 196
W1la1 ngton No, 1 96
Hartle y Ho. 199
SilTeyTill • No, 201
Rio Vieta No. 208
Friendsh ip No . 210
San Benito No. 211
Soutb San Francisco No, 212
Oak Grove No, 215
Mont ere y No. 217
Hooaic lio . 218
Speranza Italiana No, 219
Downey No. 220
Inyo No. 221
RoaeTille No, 222
Bakere!ield No. 224
Br ooklyn No. 225
San Mat eo No, 22b
Atb.en a No. 22 8
Hill• Fa rry 110, 2)6
Ouadalup e No . 2J 7
Coluaa No . 240
Santa Ana No , 241
Laurel No . 245
Freeno No. 247
Landaark' llo. 2 SJ
Reading No. 2S4
Lodi No. 256
Panrhyn No . 258
!Tergreon No, 259
fuecan No. 261
Loapoc No , 262
Keeperian No . 264
Orlan d No. 265
Galt No. 2b7
Olive Branch llo. 269
Paeadena l o. 272
Arroro No. 27 4
Hanford No. 2 79
Hount Sba eta Mo. 281
South Weet Mo. 28)
San Mi guel No, 285
Eleinore No. 2119
laet Gate No. 290
Orange GroTe No . 293
Liberty !lo , 299
Radland• No, JOO
Ontari o llo. JOl
Asuea llo. 305
h hlar No. )06
feae1cal l o , )14

lorvalk !io , )15
Al1eal Ko. )21
Alhaabra No , )22
Corona No. }24
Needlee No , )2 6
Red o ndo No, )25
Pac1fic Or o• • No. J) l
FruitTale No, ))6
Car quin•• !lo, 337
Starr kin g No. )44
Palo Alto ~o. 346
Mclinl1y No. )u7
San Bernardino Jfo, )46
Sequoi a No, 349
Palaati ne No, J51
Pinole No , J5J
Kill Valley No. 356
San Francia eo-Vi ctory No. )60
Charity NG , )62
South Paeadena No. )67
~aity No. )70
le Progree de L'Oc eanl• No,)7 1
J ewe l No , 374
Rlc haond No, J7S
Fr an c ia Drake No. 376
Artaaia No. 377
Hi spah No • 378
Fillaore !lo. 379
Hi ghland Park No. )82
El Cent r o No. 384
Parnaeeu a No. 388
Balder No, J9J
Ri1ing Li gh ~ No, )97
Burling .. e No . 400
Brawley No. 402
Yarba Buena No . ~OJ
Kone ta No• 405
La Kaea No, 407
Honolulu No. 409
Ch5r ter Rock Mo. 410
Perris No, 411
Bi l Ter Trowel No. 41S
Lindaa7 No. 416
Midva7 llo . 42 6
San Diaae No , 42 8
Pitteburg No, 429
Alpha No, 431
Maric opa No , 434
Fairaount No . 435
Standard No . ti40
Coronado llo, 441
Bleck .. r No. 442
Torrance No . L47
Hount Diablo No. 448
Hount Oeo No, 460
~r gona ut No . 461
Paul ReTare No . 462
Libertaa No. 466
CulTar Cit7 llo. 46 7
Rockridge No. 468
Delta lo. 1:71
hablor lo. 4 7l

396

PROCEEDINGS O F T HE

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTA INMENT RESERVE (Continued)
Lodge a (Continued):
Thousand Oaks Ho. 478
Golden Rule No. 479
Mt . Davideon No. 481
Bell No. 463
Cbovoh1lla No. L85
Vallejo No. L87
Patterson No. 488
Eas t Bay No. L89
Wo odstock No . L91
Atas cadero No. L93
Acorn No. L94
Capital City No. 4 99
Roosevelt No . 500
Harbor No. 502
Point No. 503
Sea si d e No . 504
El Se gundo No, 50 7
Cupertino llo. 5 10
Cahuenga No. 513
Ar gonne No . 514
Taft No. 5 16
Piedmont No. 521
Geor ge Washington No, 5'2 5
Bay City No , 52 6
Covenant No, 527
Que en Beach No . 540
Henr y Mor se Stephens No . 541
San Gebriel No. 546
Seaport No. 550
Lall:o shore No. 5 5 1
Se Mper Vireos No. 552
Poi nt Fi rmi n No. 55 8
Eaet San Di ogo No . 561
s. W. Hackett No, 5'74
El Caj on Vall ey No. 576
Progressive No. 576
Santa Maria Ho. 580
Security No. 5 61
El Sereno No, 588
ll:auai No, 589
Compa es No. 590
Tu j unga No, 592
Servi c e No, 594
Ale%ander Or a haa Bell Ho. 595

Dimond . No. 603
Pr ovident No. 609
Neptune No. 61 9
Point Loma No. 620
The Gardena No. 621
Fairview No . 629
Rive rside No, 635'
Palisade s No. 637
Ind ien Rock No , 638
Alta Loma No. 643
A. F. E. Irvin No. 645
Damascus No , 648
La Brea No , 650
Malta No. 661
Kaweah No, 66 5
San Gorgonio No. 668
John P. Jar~an No. 669
Far Wes t No. b7J
Modesto No . 675
Wi llov Gl en No. 6 76
·
CarMel No. 680
Do ~ Palos No. 681
'l'rona No. 684
Oildale No, 668
San Carlos No. 690
Indi an Wella Valley Ho. 691
San Loren zo Valle7 No, 718
Eatoro No . 719
Mineral King No. 720
Saint J ohn 's No, 725
San Juan No, 732
Peninsula No, 7u5
Merced No, 749
Go ld en Bcvl No . 755
Clayt on Valley No. 756
West Cov ina No. 758
Lake•ide No , 760
Josi ah W, Roller No, 761
Tejon No. 773
Wailcilci No. 774
Rolling Hill e No. 781
Lela"d Stanf ord No. 784
Golden Valley Ho , 796

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

397

GENERAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Page
Standing C ommittees -----·-· ··-·-·· ·----- ----····---- ----·--- ------ --- -------·-----·-·--·-· ··-·· 398
Special Committees -------·-· ······-···-- ----···-··-··-······ ·----- ·--·---------· --- ·-- -·----·· 40 I
Constitutional Boards ---·--·-· ··------ ·····-------·-------------· ------ ------ ---·------------ 403
Masonic Homes -··········-···-----·---····-·--------·----- ---·-·---·--·------------------·--·---·· 404
California Masonic Temple.. --- ----··-·------··------·--------·----------------------------- 405
Directors Ma>SOnic Clubhouses ____ ___ __ _ ·-·-··---·--····----·····- ··---·--· ·---· __________ 405
Registration and Mileage Payments---···- ···-·--·--··--···-·---- ----······-·--------·· 406
List of Constituent Lodges ..----·-·······------------·· ·-------·-·-·-·-·---------·------------ 450
Extinct Lodges. Including Consolidations ____ ________ ·····-·--· ·····- .. .

470

Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization__ .. . . __ ·-·······-·· 475
List of Inspectors...... ---------------------········--------····-------------·----.----···----·---· 482
Foreign Grand Lodges ... -----------·--- --·---···--- ------------------·----- ------ ---·---------- 485
Alphabetical List of Lodges .... .... --------------------·- ------- ·---·----·-· -·-· -·---------- 490
Correspondence Report AnnouncemenL .... ---· ··-·--·· ·- ·--·-··-··----····-··--- 497
Index ·-------------· ---·----· ---·-----·--------------------------------- -----------------·---·--·· ·····---- 498

398

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1962-1963

PAY OF MEMBERS

STANDING COMMITTEES

.

1

JURISPRUDENCE
·--.-.S3 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
John R. Moore (667)-··-·-·-----Oscar Lawler (290) ··---································-···--800 Standard Oil Bldg .. Los Angeles 15
Louis C. Drapeau (633)---········-······································--··500 Sunset Ave., Oak View
Leo E. Anderson (355)·-····························-···············700 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 17
Henry C. Clausen (630)-----····--·----··..234 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Joe L. Shell (35)·-······························································-···2858 Kalmia Pl., San Diego 4
Wakefield Taylor (41) ....................·-··-····-········-······-··-····-···1270 Escobar St., Martinez
Oharles J. Wright (61) ................................................................ P.O. Box 1127, Richmond
Roy J. Henville (685) ..............................................................3046 St:oneley Dr., Pasadena

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Leslie E. Wood (609)--------···------·· ·1808 "Q" St., Sacramento 14
Chester H. Warlow (247)--·-···----1007 Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 12
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ...................................................... 1415 Linda Ridge Rd., Pasadena
·-···-·------·--·.Bo x 486, Weaverville
Arthur Paulsen (27)
Guy B. Mize (368) ......... _....................................................... 1238 Idlewood Rd., Glendale
Elbert W. Davis (571)·-·························-········-·-···················2908 Russell St, Berkeley 5
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) ....·-·································-············Courrt House, Oakland 7
John D. Holland (558)-·······--·····-···-·····-··-········-- -··H25 Trotwood Ave., San Pedro
bon K Baldwin (103) ..............................................................2920 Stormes Ave., Oroville

FINANCE
___623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528)______
Paul F. Balck (1H) ...................................................... 18H-28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Alfred H. Nicoll (481) ······-·······························-23370 Camino Hermosa, Los Altos Hills
Atwill Morgan (636)--··--···-·--·-·-·-··-8 874 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 46
Fred M. Clark (368) ...................................................... 1662 San Gabriel Ave., Glendale 8
Geor1teE. Chase (704) ..........................................................6 Donna Maria Way, Orinda
Kem H. Copeland, Jr. (535) .................................................. 1521 Lindauer Dr., La Habra

GRIEVANCES

~= ~. ~&1~~!~--"(344)"=::::·-·····························I>:"C5:·a~~·707~$~J~:a~~:,Oy
William B. Neeley (743) ..........·---······-····················-···-1429 Virginia Ave., Glendale
__P. 0. Box 507, Riverside
Byron C. Morton (259)
Folger Emerson (61) ..........................................................2001 Magellan Dr., Oakland 11
William N. Bowle, Jr. (547) ···························-··-····-·····-··-20H Baldwin Ave., Arcadia
Richard E. Patton (240)-·-······-····-···-···-······-·······-·····-·········-521 Market St., Colusa

CREDENTIALS
Thos. F. Mason ( 198 ) -······-·····--------...220 No. Glendale Ave., Glendale 6
Don E. Berry (568) ......................·-··················-··············-·-···············p• 0. Box 208, Lodi
Emil W. Trefts (38) ..................................................................126 Dake Ave., Santa Cruz
Jesse M. Few (622) ...................................- ...................3406 Laclede Ave., Los Angeles 39
Harry F. Lutticken (166) ..................-·············-·····-···1000 Rivera St., San Francisco 16
William Rex Hoover (672) ·····-·-·····--·-·········-·-----B ox 934, Laguna Beach
James B. Smith (111) ............................................................................901 Alpine St, Chico

399

_____ 1320 West 163rd St., Gardena
Keith W. Schlaegel (372)___
·----··--108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
John V. Bacigalupi (191)
Matthew M. Codon (42) ··----···-·-·-·---···__s.30 Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles 5
William D. Knight (437) ......·---·················-·········H037 No. Heaton Ave., Lancaster
Aroher R. Richardson (185) ........_ ................. -·-·········-·····-······-···St~wart's Point
Gerald A. Sharer (417) ·-················-·····-·················-·-- --·······-* R St., Firebaugh
Burton 0. Young (336) .............................-·····-············-······<fOl l Rhoda Ave., Oakland 2

CHARTERS
Herbert A. Huebner (~)---·-····---·-··-----610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles H
Robert A. Smith (426 )--···············-····-····-·····---····-- ····-··-··-...429 Center St, Taft
Philip B. Stone (727) ----·-········-·--·-·-·.;.·--·········- 1007 Bethany Rd., Burbank
Kenneth L. Hemphill (728) -----·····--·----1360 Newport Ave., Long Beach 4
Wayne E. Burk (316).·-·····-··--····--···--··-········--······················--··248 S. McCall Rd, Sanger
Charles Warren (57) ----···········-··-····················--· -·-933 Crest Dr.• Santa Rosa
Robert 0. West (26) ----········-··-······-··-······-·····-···-- ---·P.O. Box 752, Placerville
Martin Ortlieb (35) .·-···--·····················-·······-························..2889 Palm St., San Diego
Frank B. Peebles (556) ---·-·····-········-··-·--·····-······-·-···31 Maywood Way, San Rafael
Thomas G. Allan (481) .._...........................·-···-··.75 Lynhurst Dr., San Francisco 27
Stanley L. Cosart (424) ----··············-···-·····-········--···--·- -12S Portola Ave., Exeter

BY-LAWS
Henry D. Oliphant (360) ..........·-··························-·····-·········2915 Florida St., Oakland 2
Alden J. Fulkerson (35)·--···-······--········-····-················-·-··-··3205 Poe St., San Diego
Virl Bennehoff ( 1)--··-··-··---····--·····3701 Divisadero St., San Francisco 23
Thomas W. Thurman (505)------···---··-··---·-··-12 26 So. Ross St., Santa Ana
R. Wayne Fillpot (407) ............·-········-······-············--········----+784 Jackson Dr., La Mesa
Horace W. Orear, Jr. (l) ....·-····-·--···············--····131 Havenside Dr., San Francisco 27
Edgar E. Choate, Jr. (420) ...............- ...............................3876 East Shields Ave., Fresno

CORRESPONDENCE
Newcomb Condee (614) ..._SuperJor Court, Dept. 64, 111 No. Hill St., Los Angeles 12
George W. Burch, Jr. (650) .........................--·-················.417 S. Hill St., Los Angeles 13
__-.S Cleveland St., San Francisco 3
John Wullschleger (550)---·Maurice B. Ross (35)-----··---·-·---··---· .....3040 Udal St., San Diego 6
__ _ 1120 E. Woodbury, Pasadena
Ralph T. Merriam (272)._
Maurice Cherry (440) ................·--·-··-·····---···---3650 Redwood Rd., Oakland
Clement L. Carter (698) ·-·--···-··-·········-·····-·············412 West 6th St., Los Angeles 14

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
Lowell H. Beckendorf (462).·-····-·----·--·-3939 Ortega St, San Francisco 22
Bernie J. Katz (120)---·---·····-···-·········1 864-28th Ave., San Francisco 22
William Van Omum (374)-··--···----·----···748 Wisconsin St., San Francisco 7
Lester M. Petterson (360)---------···-·-··--···2066 - 34th Ave., San Francisco 16
Rush Manbert (549) ----·-··--···-·············-···-.25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Flhil Bovero (374) ...........- ................................................... 2222 - 39th Ave., San Francisco
Perry Lawson (462) ............................................................ 1978-46th Ave., San Francisco
Edwin C. Mathisen (360) .....- ..............................- ....... 337 Douglas St., San Francisco 14
Emmett Bundy (554) ...........................- ......................... 1762-40th Ave., San Francisco 22
Edward W. Quon (673) ..................................................750 Grant Ave., San Francisco 8
George C. Murray (169) ----·--·······················-······-···-.3023 Turk St., San Francisco 18

400

401

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LODGE FINANCING

SPECIAL COMMITTEE S

Mark A. Green (320) ....•.•-·-·····-···-········-·······-··· ···318-B S. Reno St .. Los AniJeles 57
(254) ....................................................... 2316 California St., Redding
John T. Bond (355) .--·--······-·--···-··········· ····-·······-637 S. Wilton Pl., Los Angeles 5
Ivan Crase (435) ----··-················-··········-·-·······-···1000 Mills Building, San Francisco 4
Glen C. Holbert (441) ................................................4350 Pacific Highway, San Diego 10
Arthur S. Becker (344) ....................................................761-34th Ave., San Francisco 21
Richard L. Riemer (778) ............................................ 14252 San Feliciano Dr., La Mirada
Hale Meader (208) - ..............................................................-2-f North Front St., Rio V ista
Charles C. Cadman (290) ............................................. .5313 Via Corona, Los Angeles 22
Geor~ W . Sturm

NECROLOGY
Adam B. Morten (346) ..................................................20130 Mendelsohn Lane, Saratoga
Raymond J. Fisher (292) ......................................................31-t Saratoga Ave., Los Gatos
William E . Rife (7.36) ........................................................20f0 Dayton Dr., Lemon Grove
Walter B. Meyers (220)·-···-·-··-···········--···-··-···-·······-···12121 S. Eastbrook, Downey
Merlin J. Taber, Jr. (253) ..........................................................Star Route, Box 14, Capay

RITUAL
Donald G. Campbell (608) ................................................2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 9
Clare B. Campbell (230) ........·-········-·································-·-··.Route l, Box 682, Gridley
Harold N. Richards (20) ..·-·-·········-··-·-·························-2608 "R" St., Sacramento 16
Arthur J. Kahn (462) .·-··-······--··································20ff Bryant St., San Francisco 10
Raymond G. Taylor (466) ...·-··-·-·--···················-··-···-···-···---Boz 887, Bakersfield
Ralph W . Collins (739) ....·-······--··-········-·······- -·--811 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 17
W. Ben Sorrells (672) ...................................... 10852 Garden Grove Blvd., Garden Grove

MASONIC HISTORY
Kenneth H. Downs (646) ..........·-····-·································1528 ldlewood Rd., Glendale 2
Leon 0. Whitsell (293) ...·-····-······································3501 Anza St., San Francisco 21
Kenneth B. Conklin (616 ) ............................................. .4858 Pearce Ave., Long Beach 11
Ralph A. Herbold (600) ..·-·-············································ 10972 Sampson Ave., Lynwood
A. Lewis Koue (541 ) ................ ~ .............................................901 Paramount Rd., Oakland
Stanley E. Gustavson (393) .......................................... 1470 Russ Bldg., San Francisco 4
Leo J. Todd (23 ) ...............................................................•.......... 123 Bank St., Grass Valley

PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Claude E. Cole (421) ...................................- ...........122 1 So. La Brea Ave., Inglewood 5
Irving A. Berliner (120) .....-·········--··-·····-····-········2701 - lidi Ave., San Francisco 27
George K. Palmer (ff2) ......................·-·············-·············.3509 Dove Court, San Diego 3
Perry Barrett (699) .·-·-·····-······-····························-··--···387 Orlena Ave., Long Beach
Jess She:1jog (642) .·--······-·····--·····················-······-···2655 Montrose Pt., Santa Barbara
George iatt (247) .......................................................................... 1364 Echo Ave., Fresno
Winston E. McPherson (21 ) ................................................ 3179 Kaohinani Dr., Honolulu
Chester W. Kimball (784) ........................................................ 2165 Maraposa Ave., Chico
Orville H. Wulf (58) ......................................... ................ .5319 Ortega St., Sacramento 20
Edmund T. Manwell (9) ..........................................................2122 Greely Dr., Marysville
Earl Van Vorst (286) ••......•....·--····································--·····p· 0 . Box 233, Paso Robles
Allen Curry_ (628) •. ·-·-··············································3000 Stockridg_e Ave., Los Angeles
LaMar L. Hill (104) .................................................. 1846 E. Greenville Dr., West Covina
Melvin C. Moran (568) .......................................................... 15-tO Jackson St., Oakland 12
Alvin N. Schmitz (348) ..........................................................·-······-··.536 Julie St., Colton

MASONIC EDUCATION

j

Eugene S. Hopp (260) ·····················-···············2000 Van Ness Avende, ~an tra isco
0
Leonel C. Panosh (57 4) ····-·--···--------~-····-·-N!S~Ced ar
i{g 46
0
677
FHra~
ReiJnschL d(
s!cra~e~~~
15
enrung . ue ers l(·2··0···)··············-····················
.................................... ·67o·W~lake Dr~rN~~~
ff A
T
l C'
David C . Lee (492) ......·-····-················-·······················99657WEdr2ZO h
~mp
1th
Milton E . Ammann (600) .·--··················-··-··-····--·······2
Ardm!e ~d., K:Sin~~n
Joseph A. Pivemetz (571) ·····-················-···························· SM E Al
A
F
E.dward L. Kellas (247) ............................................................
. amps 12 v[:' resno
Clyde B. Tyler (791) ........................................ ·-········· 126 'ic;i~J:vM;:nt~n. 'G1!~!i:e7
lrvy W . Hardaway ( 368) ---~-··············-············-··-··········

i;, A0

S..

'fo

B

CONSTITUTIO N OBSERVANCE
John F. Porter (677) ...,......,...•.•.•__ ........-------····.f639 Tremont Laneg;orpna d.el Mi6
Robert Lintner ( 169) ···--..·-·--·············-··-·-·······2087 - 33rd Av~·· Sn Cnc1sco
Reynold C. MacDonald l~l} ............ :··········--------···--·····--···8352 Caroms urOa ucVollga
Earl Patterson, Jr. (494) •............................................ :::·.::~~.11'Js'!32~d St.,5 ~ rue~~
Edward W . Wrede, Jr. (561 )--····-·······-·····------···;··-p 0 B 455 Fresno
Hambleton F. Leas (366) ..............................-·······-···············-··6·--H· · ·
H ol I
Charles R. Hapai (409) ........................................................... .5 3i Beoa2.J··Ke~~ c~t
Oral?- W. Palmer (581) .......................................................641"-/.;r~id ~xRd., Sacrament~
Daniel M. Cameron (20) ·-···························-················.l
~
S p· tsb
William G. Buxton (429) •.-·-·····················-······-·····-·········-··-·13ll Ale t., 1t ood~
1
Wiltiam A Fishback (677) .............................................. 11625 ~ ~· 1n~ew
'll
Carl E. M~per (Jil ) .............................................................. 100
n.~ Prard 0
1 Sun\1,·5:ii:s
John B. Patterson (780)__..................................................P. O. Box Bo~
Ray L. Peterson (667) ..:..~-·······························-··-···················P· 0 .
2 •
Y

'.lg

76: Pgz

DE MOLAY
Homer E. Rathbun (368 ) •..-----··-·-····-----··· ···7-tJ Fairmont tve., Glendale ~
Lester G Bruno (499 ) -----·····-··························2530 Jay St. No. 10 , SacrameFto
Roy H. Gerard ( 366) ··=···-~·-·-······················--·················--·······-tS~ ERGettys~urgS Tno
Harold S. Medo (676) ....·-····-··-······················· ·············-·-·-· 9N eg9n~ t:•
Ilse
William W . Dewgaw (407) .....---······················-···3221 Bancroft, ?(;.. ' prMg a iljY
Willard W ill (9) ···-···································-··················-········3i--/7K' S St.F ar_y sv 2i
Hal Curtis (344) .................- ...........................................217 - nDr ve.,
rLncM~o da
Wendell M. Anderson (315) ...- ............................... 1H55 San
equoto r., Bhte l:ke
Clyde Patenaude (106) ...............................................................T.;;d···er;c·y;om L· da
Wm M Ketteringham (352) ................................ 18866 Yorba i :a chvS • S a Mm.
Don~ld E. Thomas (264) ............---···--····-··---····--·····7 08 E. Chur
t. anta ana

1

V

D

COLUMBIA TEMPLE

19,.f

Chester M. Smith (525) .................................................... 330 Via
'P1:rtrst~aAl~~:ie~
George A. Jurgens (49l) .................................................................... <t()ot Nebraska, Valle'o
Bert Menge (487 ) .......................................................................
l B
1 Pl
T I
A. T. Kiersch (236) ...................................................... ::::::.1.~~-- .....~~~---·~~~!a,i:
Donald M. Stewart, Jr. (8).........................................
27 Wabash St. Pasadena
Henry M. Welch (794) ........................................................... ! 5
•

w..

o.a:

DISTINGUISHE D GUESTS

M. Jay Jensen (454) .·-·······-··--··--··-·-·- -··--c/o Olivet Me'lli1a~ Pa~, C~lma ~~
Roy Wieland (454) ......................................................40 Lagunitas ~An rockio d 2
GCheorge PR. SMillimPahn (4(9Jl5-·)·····································69·o;::Jt7::Av e., Sa~eFra:ci~~ 14
ester . ac ee -.S -·--··-···-············--···
A
S F
·
27
Joseph F Garriott (630) ·-·-························-·············38-t-f • 19th
Sn Fanci~o 8
George L. Jacobs (216) -··············-···································450 SutterS t.,S anF ran~1scolO
Bertram C . vonKonsky (550) ......................................877 Valencia t., an ranc1sco

VS,

402

403

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

TAXATION

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS

Aleunder L. Croce (3S-.)---···-·····--------·---.162 8-18th Ave., San Francisco 22
wnes E. Hammond (568)·-··---········-·····-·-·········-··-···········1 Bush St., San Francisco 4
obert R. York (349) .......................- .........................................P. 0. Box 817, Oakland 4

Alexander Horne (216)-------···
..2135 - 29th Ave., San Franci.sco 16
David R. Lane (638) ................................................................ 1155 Oxford St., Berkeley 7
Robert H. Burrows (697)----.iu Palm Dr., Piedmont
William H. Scott (435) .....---·-···-------·--··.335 Buckingham Way, San Francisco 27
Thomas W. S. Wu (462) .........................- ..................... 1111 Stockton St., San Francisco

COMMERCIALISM
Vincent P. McMurdo (454)---···-····-··-················299 Maywood Dr., San Francisco 27
Willard A. Braasch (296) ................................................_________965 E. Madison, El Cajon
~ck L. Blaine (461) ....--···-·-···--··-···775 Po.st St., Rm. 604, San Francisco 9
arvey Harkness (506) ..--······---·-······----···--210 W. 7th St., Los Angeles H
Albert R. Bennison (382) ....·-····················-·················408 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

RETIREMENT PLAN
Arthur M. Warren (481) .................................................. 3060 - 16th St, San Francisco 3
L. Harold Anderson (346 ) ---··············-··-····-······-·····245 Market St., San Francisco 6
Alfred F. Breslauer (344)·-······---· ..····-·······-·-··--····--111 Sutter St, San Francisco 4
l;mes Leo Halle~ (375)----··-..-···-·······-·--···········703 Flood Bldg .. San Francisco 2
eginald M. Mils (61)-................................................. 1059 Market St., San Francisco 3

MASONIC INFORMATION
Gerald Levin (136)-----·~----···-····-···-·-·········---1080 Chestnut St.. San Francisco
Charles A. Thomasset (329)-------------------215 W. 5th St.. Los Angeles 13
Roger Emery Butler (247} ···-·-··-···--··-······-···--1™ E. Fountain Way, Fresno 4
Charles J. Savage (442)----------·····--4915 Monroe Ave., San Diego 15
Copeland Davis (589) ----······-·-·······-·-·····---------··-··· ·--·-··-Llbue, Kauai, Hawaii
Glendall W. McDermott (57) ·------···---······-···········1046 Vallejo St., Santa Rosa
James K. Wilson (789)--------..·--------··-····-·····-·-·960 Castec Dr., Sacramento 25

SOJOURNERS

SPECIAL COMMISSION ON MASONIC PRACTICES

William A. Cohendet (370) .................................................. 1557 Balboa Ave., Burlingame
Francis H. Gentry (716) ................................306 Insurance Exchange Bldg., Long Beach
Edward M. Downs (473) ....................................................................P. 0. Box 486, Blythe
Ben T. Sahnon (632)-----··-············--··-····-·····-···4110 Palisades Rd., San Diego 16
~hn Richmond (5~1)-·--········-············-·············-······--·-1738 Grove St., Berkeley 9
. V. Kolombatov1c \370) ...........·-·········-···-·-····------2101 Easton Dr., Burlingame
Geor~e Cornwell (1068 ........................................................Box 3507, Alliance Rd.• Arcata
{Vsep V. Antista (70 ) ............................................................389 Flower St., Costa Mesa
allace F. Powers (530) _ ...........................................·-··-·······-···--2415 Cornell, Fresno
Howard Campen (399)----···········-·-···-·--·--·····----····-··-···695 South 16th St., San Jose
Frank J. Homer (666) ..................................................... 181 Irene Court, A£t. 12, Belmont
Jiseph P. De~ehy (801) ............................................ 190 Makawao St., Kailua, Hawaii
oward S. Fisher (620) .............................................. 1570 Chatsworth Blvd., San Diego
Wm. W. Dickson, Jr. (450) ....................................................14216 Haynes St., Van Nuys

O. J. Wohlgemuth (122) ....................................89 Lake Forest Court._ San Fran;:~2~
Henry D. Oliphant (360) ................ ·-············-···-·······---2915 Flonda St., 0
Robert B. Watts (518) ......... -··--·----~--~··--·--··-··-·······---·7949 Princess St., La Jolla
Robert L. Karnes (451 ) ···············--··········-····················--62·1 No. Keenan St., Montebello
Paul F. Burlington (2.30) ..... p----··············-··············-····-··-· ··-'20 Main St., Gridley
Norman L. Langness (732) .. ~---·······-········-····-·············----..7510 Amy Ave., Fair Oaks
Robert J. Myers (466) ...... ·--·-············-····-························.2331 Oiester Lane, Bakersfield

MUSIC
Harold Mueller ( 1>----···--··-·····---·--··-···95 5 POl'tola Or., San
27
Austin Mosher (1) ......._____ .. ________________ ........... 1175 Johnson St., Francisco
Menlo Park
Oharles J. Payne (540).----------···-········--·.122 1 E. Roosevelt Rd.. Long Beach 7

INSURANCE
T. James Carlile (215)----------------1 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Allerton B. Ebert (489)._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _401 California St., San Francisco 4
Benjamin Susman (529)---···-······--·-·····-··········-···· 13403 Cumpston St, Van Nuys

CEMETERIES
Basil R. Gillett (124) ..............................................._....................... P.0. Box 1076, Paradise
Harold C. Schroder ( 3) ---······-················-··-·······-····---1149 - 28th Ave., Sacramento 22
Frederick H. Chapman (622) .............__________ _4210 Edenhurst Ave., Los Angeles 39
Reuben V. Porter (8) .................. ·-·········-····················.:................ .Rt. 1. Box 915, Sonora
Wilton J. Smith (204)------·-····-··············-··········· ·-······--····116 No. 3rd St., Salinas

OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES
Matthew M. Codon (42) ..............................................S.30 Ross.more Ave., Los Angeles 5
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ...................................___......623 So. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Leo E. Anderson (355)------------·······-·---700 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 17

CONSTITUTIONA L BOARDS
ENDOWMENT BOARD
John M. Gordon (202)---·····---·-·····-······-----34 46 Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27
Byron Coleman (454)------·-····---.35 1 California St., San Francisco 4
Kermit A. Jacobson (599)--···--------···--------4 17 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena
Ralph S. Brokaw (346) .........................- .................................................Box 935, Los Altos
Charles H. Grace (635)---·..··-··..······----···---4210 Highland Pl., Riverside
Paul A. Brom (336)-------···--·--····-······-·-····· ·······-·-···Central Bldg., Oakland 12
William H. Schooler (254)---············-························-········-····---1045 East. Redding
Fred F. Elliott (483)
---4671 Bell Ave., Bell
J. Glen Gladson (542)---··-··----·-····---62 01 Satsuma, North Hollywood
Kent Seymour (356)------------------ -..525 Summit Ave., Mill Valley
Charles F. Minetti (57)---·-....._ ..___.. 1536 Raegan Ave., Santa Rosa
Arthur A. Anderson (385)
....578 Vermont Ave., Dinuba
Charles Ratkovich (268) ....---·-··---·--------2954 Shasta Road, Berkeley
Sy Dennis, Jr. (3) ......................----······-··-·········-··········.1031 Appollo Way, Sacramento
Frank R. Porath (442)---···················--..:·--········-······-···········1536 Dale St., San Diego 2
Herschel E. Griffin (505) ...----·····--··-··········-····-········--613 E. Camile St., Santa Ana
George C. Poloynls (773) .............................•..............................68$ Magnolia, Bakersfield
Ralph C. Hine (242)---·····-···-····--····-·······-·······2211 Las Rosas Lane, Santa Barbara
Myron E. Roudebush (543) ......----·-······-··-···--·-·······-······--220 Atlantic, Long Beach
Norman W. Shaw, Jr. (19)---···············--·-·--··--··-···5449 E. Marada Lane, Stockton
Everett Todd (527)---·········-····-··--·······---9 26 Glenhaven Dr., Pacific Palisades

404

405

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENT

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

Paul A. Pflueger (370) ··-··--------·--------------------------------------·----·-·Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Arthur M. Warren (481) ........•- .......................................3060 -16th St., San Francisco 3
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528 ) ..................................................623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. (529)·-···--··························-3600 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5
John M. Gordon (202) ..................................................3'446 Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27

BOARD OF CONTROL
Ar·thur Dvorin (639) ···············-·······················----1030 S. Cochran Ave., Los Angeles 19
Irving Magnes (225) ----···-··········-··-··-····-··-·················256 LaSalle Ave., Piedmont 10
John Swan (667) ..... ·--·····-····-······-··········-··-·············2430 Orange Ave., La Crescenta
Norman E. Hale (574) ......................................................6012 Lomond Dr., San Diego 20
Lester S. McElwain (403) ...................................................... 1419 Broadway, Oakland 12

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Phil N. Mg;era (430) ......................... ____ .....·-·-····---3000 Wei!#. Sixth St., Los Angeles 5
Alfred F. reslauer (344) .................................................... 111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr. (202) ................................458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CODE COMMISSION
William NankttVis, Jr. (215) ..........................................80 Woodland Way, Piedmont 11
Edward T. Koford (57) .......................... Emplre Bldg., 217 Exchange Ave., Santa Rosa
David P. Russell (396) .......................................................- ..2230 San Jose Ave., Alameda
Everett Houser (504) ..........................................................260 Aitlantlc Ave., Long Beach
Leonard S. Lurie (216) ..................................................495 - 32nd Ave., San Francisco 21

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Edgar V. Stewart, President (529) ............3600 Wilshire Blvd., Rm. 860, Los Angeles 5
L. Harold Anderson, Vice President (346) .................... 245 Market St., San Francisco 6
Phil N. M}irs (430) ....................................................3000 West Sixth St., Los Anq_eles 5
Elmer W. eald (384) ········-·····································-···--·-··---.Superior Court, El Centro
Theodore Meriam ( 111 ) ................................................................713 Arbutus Ave., Chico
Myron E. Smith (394) ..........................................461 South Boylston St., Los Angeles 17
~es Leo Halley (375) ......................... _ ............... _____703 Flood Bldg., San Francisco 2
ward Bllckfeldt (535) ·······-································--·-·····-590 Hargrave St., Inglewood
George . Gavin (lH) ..........................................55 New Montgomery, San Francisco 5

J·

MASONIC HOME FOR THE AGED
Union City, California
Telephone 471-3434
Gail H. David, Superintendent

MASONIC HOME FOR CHILDREN
20336 East Badillo St.
Covina, CalHomia
Telephone 331-0541
Robert M. Henry, Superintendent

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Arthur M. Warren, Pres. (481) -··········----·····-····--····.3060 - 16th St., San Francisco 3
Jay A. Robinson, Vice Pres. (674) ......•... _.............................. P. 0 . Box 1270, San Pedro
Elmer W. Heald (384) ................................................................Superior Court, El Centro
Theodore Meriam ( 111) ............................................................. .713 Arbutus Ave., Chico
Myron E. Smith (394) ............................................461 South Boylsllon St.. Los Angeles 17
Paul A. Pflueger (370) ........................................................,.Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Ralph H. Head (352) ----·-······-----P.O. Box 2282. Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Samuel I. Jacobs (216) ---···-····--··-····-····--····-···········946 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Galt Atwood ( 454 ) ······-···--·-·················-···········--······--450 Sutter St., San Francisco, 8
Alvin A. Horwege, Manager
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8

DIRECTORS

MASONIC

CLUBHOUSES

Berkeley
Wallace E. York (403) .. _................................................. .5109 Proctor Ave., Oakland 18
Carlisle D. Nielsen (541 ) ...................... _ ................... 183-t Trestle Glen Rd., Piedmont 11
Gene C. Otwell (705) .................................................................. 759 Creston Rd., Berkeley
Paul S. Boren (551) .................................................................... 1947 Tiffin Rd., Oakland 2
Gordon F. Black (635) ................................................715 Darien Way, San Francisco 27
Russell C. Horstmann (336) ......................................................... .560- 57th St., Oakland 9
Tohn L. Wixon (705) ....................................................................6519 Knott St., El Cerrito
Frank Spires (686) ··----·-----·-··------·-·---·------·-------------------·-------···--····823 Ramona Ave., Albany
W . H. Nutting, Jr. (188) ....................................................946 Wawona Ave., Oakland 10
E. A. Reinke (5''11) ···-···············-·········'.·-----·-·----·······------·-···········.780 San Luis, Berkeley 7
T. Walter Proctor (349) ..............................................................243 Athol Ave., Oakland 6
~)ton L. Turner (337) --•-··-···--·-··············-·······-····-·····..243 Pomona Ave., Crockett
Alfred E. Hopkins (349) ................................................ 1002 Ashmount Ave., Oakland I 0
Edward H. Redford ( 481 ) -·············-·············-······················-.S714 Grove St., Oakland 9
C. M. Davis (541) .....•.................·--··········--·--··-············900 San Benito Rd., Berkeley 7

Berkeley Clubhouse
2590 Bancroh Way, Berkeley
Mrs. Janice Kohl, Resident Hostess
Mrs. Mary Kierulff, Social Hostess

Los Angeles
Paul R. Nichols, Chairman (662 ) ........................._. ________ 743 Glenwood Rd .. Glendale 2
S. Roy Howell, Vice Chairman (662) ........................326 N. Croh Ave., Los Angeles 48
C. Earl Crane, Secty.-Treas. (528) ................................+tO N. Palm Drive, Beverly Hills
Frank H. Reinsch (677) ..:.............................--............... 1322 N. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Clyde C. Shoemaker (566) ...•.........·-····--·.:.·-···--········.1 17 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14
A. Curtis Smith (618) .....•.................................................. 211 N. Elm Drive, Beverly Hills
John A. Klarquist (445) .................................................... 1339 Valley Heart Dr., Burbank
Elvin C. Drake (677) .................................................. ! 01 7 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504) ................................................4155 Greenbrier Rd .. Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan (327 )-----·-···--······-·-·······-------1505 Armando Dr., Long Beach 7
George E. Hall (528) -------·-··-·····-···-··--······-·-t16 N. Bedford Dr., Beverly Hills
Frank Jenkins (528) ·--·-·--·······-···-----·--··-·-·-·········242 S. Peck Dr.. Beverly Hills
George Kusman (506)----··-···-························608~N. Beachwood Dr., Los Angeles 4
Bates Mason (373) ........................................•_.3227 Castle Heights Ave .. Los Angeles 34
Thomas Carroll (373) ·······················--··-···-········3630 So. Barry Ave.. Los Angeles 66

Los Angeles Clubhouse
10886 Le Conte Ave., Los Angeles 24
Mrs. Faith C. Sheldon, Director of Actl.vltl.es

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

406

No. of Lodge

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

California ····-·····-··--····-···No. L .. Herman V. Banzet, Master
$
Horace W. Orear. Jr., Senior Warden
Harold Mueller, Grand Organist
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P.M. and Inspector
Virl Bennehoff, Past Master
Paul Cowgill, Past Master
James Hurst, Past Master
Emile R. Laversin, Past Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Past Master
James F. McKay, Jr., Past Master
Howard M. McKinley, Jr .. Past Master
Samuel C. Shenk, Past Master
David Thomson, Past Master
Western Star ......................No. 2..-Laures H. Fretts, Master.................................. 31.22
No. 3.... William C. Kasmire, Jr .. Master.................... 12.04
T e h ama -·------·-·--·--------···---····
Floyd O. Cook, Senior Vlarden
Robert D. Stribling, Junior Warden
Horace L. LaFortune, P.M. and Inspector.... 12.04
Kenneth L. Malcolm. Past Master
Otto Rohwer, Past Master.............................. 12.04
Arthur D. Savage. Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia ................................ No. 5....Raymond E. Calvert, Master..........................
5.04
Orval F. Carpenter, Senior Warden
Wilbur F. Anderson, Junior Warden
Carlton A. Foster, Past Master
Svend 0. K. Sorensen, Past Master
Tuolumne -------······-·------·····--No. 8.... Ray M. Wagner, Senior Warden.................. 18.34
Corinthian ---··-·-·-----····-No. 9....Melvin M. Williams, Master.......................... 16.80
San Jase..............................No.

~~.uE~~t
J':~r~;~t¥~~:~-~~~--~~~~~~----·-------C. Raymond Winterhalder. Senior \'Varden

10 ..••

7.00

Leo Bon Mark, Junior Warden
Yount ................................No. 12....James T. Majors, Master................................ 6.58
John W. Leger, Senior Warden
Howard W. Cliff, Junior Warden
Rolland F. Atwood, Past M aster
Cornelius Kernan, Past Master
W. D. Nelson, Past Master
N
d
No 13.... Herbert J. Kendall, Master... ........................... 20.72
eva a ·---·----·····--···-···--·· '
Joseph Howard Keene, Senior Warden
Temple ..............................No. H.-James P . Goddard, Past M aster
Eureka .............................. No. 16.... Harry L. Rosenberry, Master.......................... 16.80
Ray C. Jackson, Junior Warden
William Edward M arshall, P.M. and
16.80
Inspector .............................................
Cecil Garnet Nagy, Past Master
La Parfaite Unlon ............No. 17.... Felix P. Lassalle, Master
Andre L. Armand, P.M. and Inspector
Andre P. Girerd, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfanti, Past Master
lames F. Smith, Past Master
Mountain Shade................No. 18...•Not Represented
1092
San Joaquin.....--··- ---····--····No. 19....Claude A sher, Senior Warden........................
·
C. Clifford Geddes, Junior Warden
]. F. McClory, Past Master
'Norman W, Shaw,
Past Master
George E. Woodru f, Past Master

}r.,

Rtpresentati•e•

407
Mil<a11:e Allowtd

Washington ...................... No. 20_.Jack D. Shrader, Master.. ................................ 12.04
Robert L. Zehrbach, Senior Warden
William L. Bristow, Junior Warden
Harold N. Richards, Asst. Gr. Leet... ........... . 12.0i
Daniel M. Cameron, Past Master
Hawaiian ..........................No. 21.... Limian Kung, Senior Warden........................ 338.19
Frederick Bolte, P.M. and Inspector........... . 338.19
Darrell H. Puckett, Past Master
Occidental ----------------·---·---No. 22 .... Clarence G. Rosenstock, Master
Carl Marvin Jensen, Senior Warden
Donald Lewis Batten, Junior Warden
William Egbert Bouton, Past Master
Rudolph Mohr. Jr., Past Master
Lyle Edward Patton, Past Master
Theodore Eley Rackerby, Past Master
Robert Arthur Wertsch, Past Master
Madison ------······---········-·---No. 23.... Charles V. Welch, Jr., Master....................... . 20.02
Frederick B. Sahl, Senior Warden
Leo J. Todd, Junior Warden
Edward Farley, P.M. and Inspector............. . 20.02
Mariposa .......................... No. 24.... Philip Martell, Master..................................... . 23.10
F. Lee Raby, Senior Warden
Alva Porter, Junior Warden
Daniel Kleinman, P.M. and Inspector ......... . 23.10
Georgetown -----·-··--------·····Na. 25 ... John E. Walker, Master................................ .. 19.32
El Dorado .......................... No. 26 ....Albert W. Frey, Master·----------------··----··-----·--· 18.18
Edwin T. Aycock, Senior Warden
Owen C. Murry, Jr., Past Master
Robert 0. West, Past Master....................... . 18.18
Trinity ------··················-····No. 27 .... Anderson G. Smith, Senior Warden ............. . 36.96
Golden Gate ......................No. 30....Norman E. Johnson, Master
Lee L. Aslanian, Senior Warden
Fred E. Clauhsen, Junior Warden
Harry K. Widup, P.M. and Inspector
Raymond Henry Bradley. Past Master
Louis H. Mathesen. Past Master
Randolph Rosso, Past Master
Howard J. Smith, Past Master
Gold Hill __________________________ No. 32.... James H. Bickford, Master.............................. 15.96
Herbert B. Fowler, Senior W arden
Ophir --····-··-·-·········-·---·--No. 33....Albert E. Rule, Elected Representative.......... 20.58
Sao Diego..........................No. 35.... Simon F. Bolger, Master................................. . 73.08
Preston E. Primm, Senior \-Varden
Alden J. Fulkerson, Junior Warden
Joe L. Shell, Past Grand Master ................... . 73.08
Charles Chadrow, Past Master
Richard H . Elliott. Past Master
Alden J. Fulkerson, Pas t Master .................... 73.08
James H. Leach, Past Master
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master.. .......................... 73.08
John H. Petersen, Past Master
Fred J. H. Rickon. Past M aster
H
Maurice B. Ross, Past Master........................ 73.08
oward ···-------········----·····No. 37.... John R. C ollier, Senior Warden..................... . -H.38
Sa
George S. Ward, P.M. and Inspector.......... -H.38
nta Cruz ........................No. 38.... Raymond H. Goodrich, Master..................... . 10.08
Kenneth D. Ferguson, Senior Warden
Richard D. M cHugh, Junior Warden
A. C. Currie, Past Master
Edwin R. Hoff, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master... ....................... 10.08

408
N•m• of Lodg•

GRANO LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE
Reprtsenhtivc~

M1lcoge Allo...d

12.01
Sacramento ......................No. iO.... H1chard Lewis Braden. Ma~tcr
Marion Willford Comstock. Senior Warden
Parise Voudouris. Junior W;uden
A. Boyd Collier. P .M. and Inspec tor.... .... . 12.(}f
'4.76
Martinez ............................No. i l.. .. Joseph Robrecht, Jr.. Mastc.>r.......... .
Robert F. Fountain, Senior Warden
Henry A. Hartz, Junior Warden
Robert L. Evans. Past Master
Charles C. Laird. Past Master
Howard D . Lyford. Past Master
B. P. Schleifer. Past Master
Gcorsie W. Sutton. Past Maste r
Wakefield Taylor. Past Master ................
i.76
Ernest C. Webb. Pilst Master
Los Angdes........................No. H .... Edward A. Fromsky, Master ................. ________ _ 56.i2
Philip L. Goldstein. Senior Warden
Benjamin M. W eiss, Junior Warden
Matthew M . Codon, Past Master................. . 56.42
Hiram -----·········-··-···········No. -43 .... Edward S. Went::. Senior Warden ................ 18.20
Mount Moriah ..................No. H .... Kenneth J. Lovaasen. Master
Harry S. Swierstra, Senior Warden
Stanley 0 . North, Junior Warden
Crescent ............................No. -45 .... Victor Stone, Master................................ ________ 51.66
F. Stanley Boyd, Senior Warden
Gustave W. Klotz. Past Master
Texas ····-···-······--·····-·--··-··No. i6.... Kenneth Johnstone . Senior Warden ............. . 12.60
Joseph E . Regan. Past Master
Forbestown ·--------·············N o. 50 .... \V. E. Whiteley. Senior Warden .................. 23.80
Illinoistown ......................No. 51.... Fay E. Bates. Senior Warden.........-------------·- 19.o-t
Sulsun ------········---- -·····No. 55 .... Arthur Gleim. Junior Warden........................ 6.72
Arne Digerud. Past Master
Edmund R. Santirfo, Elected
....
56
····No.
Volcano --·-----·-··-·------·-·
Representative ----·-----·········-·------···--··-· --··--·· 20.02
7.56
Santa Rosa ·-·-·-··-···------·--·-No. 57.... 0. Doyle Blair, Master....... ..
Raymond C . Fay. Senior Warden
Condo! E. Hoke, Junior Warden
Glendall W. McDermott. Past Mastl'r
Robert A. Miller, Past Ma ster
Charles F. Minetti, Past Master
7.56
Charles Warren, Past M aster
12.o-t
.
...........
Master
Wulf,
H.
0rville
....
58
No.
.......
.........................
Union
John Pompei. Senior Warden
William A. Revitt, Junior Warden
Leighton D. Armstrong. Past Mastl'r
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range ....................No. 59 .... Richard C. Willia ms, Elected
Representative ······-------··········------·------· -··-·---· 2-4.22
F. Ma rquardt. Master................................ 31.36
E.
....
60
Plumas ---······-·······-----·····-·No.
Raymond J. Berkline, Past Master
Orval A . Myers, Past Master
Live Oak............................No. 61....Charles DufJ Small. Master
Charil's J. Wright, Senior W ardrn
Folger Emerson, Past Master
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
Clarence A. Severin. Past Master
15.iO
Natoma ·-····--··-·-····--···--····-No. M .... Roger L. Doenner, Senior Warden ..........
Charles D. Pearce, Junior Warden
Emmett F. Hill, Past Master

No. of Lod~e

409

Repreaentativc1

Amador ·····-···-···---·-----····-···No. 65 ....Lorcn J. A yres, Master................. .. .
Oren C. Broyles, Sen ior Warden
Alfred A. Penrose, P .M. and Inspec tor
Morning Star ....................No. 68.... Bernard L. Faunce, Master.. ...... ..
· Elias S. Weber, Senior Warden
Charles L. Ellis. Junior Wardm
Alvin V. Abbott. Past Master
M . Bey Greene, Past Master
Enterprise ..........................No. 70.... Lozell, L. Selig, Master .................. .
Edward D . Steele, Senior Warden
Robert A. Pritchard, Junior Ward('n
Edward Hardman Liston, Past Master
Bear Mountain .................. No. 76.... John A. Kirby, Elected Representa tive
Calaveras ·----····-·-·--··-·------·No. 78.._Not Represented
Humboldt ----·---···· -.. ···-----···No. 79....Thomas D. Chappelle, Senior Warden
Helge A. Palmrose, Past Master
lone ········--------····-·-·-----·······No. 80.... Melvin C. Jensen, Elected Representatiw
Yolo ···-···--··-----·--·-··· ..···-----No. 8l____ Robert R. Thompson, Master.................
Roy E. Jones. Senior \Varden
Weldon E. Leventon. Past Master
Vesper ··-···--········-····-· .. ·-···No. 8-i....Thomas L. Fortson. Senior Ward<'n .. ..
R. Frank, Master.............. .. .
William
....
87
No.
.......
Naval .........................
Leonard G. Dickinson. Senior Warden
John Olson, Junior W arden
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
Edward L. Baehr, Past Master
Melvin C. Baker, Past Master
John K. Cothran, Past Maste r
Frederick. Graff. Past Master
Orrin R. Hewitt, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past M<1ster
Melvin C. Nelson. Past Master
John G. N ichol. Past Master
Bert C. Whiteley, Past Master
Bertrand Wichels. P ast Master
Rose's Bar .......................... No. 89 .... William D. Cochran, Master
John C. Petersen. Senior Warden
Gilbert W. Bell. Junior Warden
Thomas Scogland, Past Master
North Star.......................... No. 91.. .. Donald Davis, Senior Wardcn .
St. Helena -----············-------- ·No. 93.... Myrt Lynn Ballard, Master........ _ .. .
Rudolph Madison Rossi, Past M .1 stcr
HE"nry Clay ........................No. 95 .... William E . Hallar. Senior Warden .............. .
Rob('rt L. Pry, Past M aster
Hornitos ···-··---···--·····--·-··-··No. 98.... Dcward Lee \Valker. Master . . . __ .
\Vilson E . Lathrop. P .M. and Inspector .. .
Yosemite ·---···-····-···-·······--··No. 99.... Everett E . Da vis, Senior Warden................. .
Donald C. Hedlund. Junior Warden
A. Harold Ro/les. Past Master
Clay -····-··················--···---No. 101 .... Glenn F. Parsons. M aster............... ______
Ed ward L. Waggoner, Senior \Varden
G ilbert V. Griggs, Junior Warden
Herbert \V. Haberkorn. Past Master
Cla ude Frank HE'rrold , Past Master
Oroville ·-········-···--····· -No. 103.... Dolan Melford , Senior Warden .....
L. Howa rd Casasi randl'. P.M . and
Inspector ................................................... ..
Sewell K. Park('r, Past Master
_
Lexington ·--·------·········-·--- No. ! Oi .... Walter W . Frank, Senior Warden...
Lawrence E. \Vest, Junior Warden
Roy C. Addleman, Jr .. P .M. and Inspector ....

18.3-i
18.3-i
10.92

16.52

19.60
39.76
17.0S

11.76

26.01
4.34

19.16

16.48

9.21

18.20
28.12
17.92
17.92

20.86

20.72

20.72

58.24
58.24

410
Name of Lod11e

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milea11c Allowed

Reprcscnutivco

Arcata ···-·····-······-·······No. 106__ ~~:Jhhuo~J~:~~.tJ~~i~;\:V·~·~d~~-····
Sidney A. W ebster, P.M. and Inspector........
James Edwin Morton. Tr.. Past Master
Pajaro ···-··-···-···········-··No. 110.... Herbert K. Stocking. Master..........................
Thomas P. Crowley, Senior W a rden
Howard G. Hodgson. Junior \Varden
Harold F . Trafton, P.M. and Inspector........
Shirley S. Summers, Past Master
Chico ···········-···················No. 111.... Darrel W. P hillips. Master..............................
William F. Jewett. Senior W a rden
James B. Smith, Junior Warden
Theodore Meriam. Junior Grand Warden....
T. W. Moore, P.M. and Inspector................
William C. Brouillard, Past Master
Eric A. Tonningsen, Past Master

12.J~~~~~vS~~r~t~1 ;.~M~~e~~.~~-~---·················

40.88
40.88
12.60
12.60
22.68
22.68
22.68

1

14.98
Summit ............................No. l
Eden __ .............. _.........- ..No. 113.... Harold C. Brown. M aster
Peter J. T<!f>ella, Senior W arden
Myron E. Temple, Junior Warden
Elmer E. Ross, P.M. and Inspector
12.0i
Concord .......................... No. 117.... P. Lane \Vildanger, Master.................... .
Alexander S. Waugh, Senior Warden
Hugh Millar, Sr.. Junior Warden
12.0i
Sam I. Bonn. P .M. and Inspector.....
Martin C. Davis. Past Master
Milton A. P enn. Past Master
Fidelity ···-··········............No. 120._.lsadore Betz. Master
Herbert W . Cahn, Senior Warden
Maurice A. H arband, Junior \Va rden
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Albert Farber. Past M aster
B. Farber. Past M aster
Reuben E. Gilbert, Past Master
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Robert A. Kling er, P ast Master
Harold Simon. Past Master
Cyril Louis W eeks. P ast Master
3.50
Alamo ..............................No. 122.... Gilbert R. Vandewater, M aster ........ .
4.34
Anthony J. Pucell. Senior Warden ................
Ralph M . Hinds, P.M. and Inspec to r............ 3.50
William E . Connelly, Past Master
Joseph H. Lewis, Past Master
0. J. Wohlgemuth. Past Master
Sotoyome ..._...................No. 123.... Ralph H. Brigham, Master.............................. 9.80
Herbert F. Turner, Senior W arden
Robert C. Jensen, Junior Warden
23.10
Table Mountain ........_ ...No. 124.... Roy E. Parson, Master..............................
Robert A. Waterbury, Senior Warden
Basil R. Gillett, Past Master
7.70
La Payette ·-·· ..·-·-·········No. 126.... Roger E. Stange, Master................................
James G . Thom son, Past Master
Hermann ····-······-····.......No. 127.... Michael Schredl. Master
Rudolph G. Brauch, Senior Warden
Friedrich G uerr, Junior W arden
O scar P. Bachmann, Past Master
Oscar Goebel. Past Master
William K. Haag. Past M aster
Henry H auschildt, Past M aster
George Mammen, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes, Past Master
Wilhelm Schumacher, Past Master

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lodge

Rep reecntative•

411
Mileage Allowed

Visalia ...- .........................No. 128._.Cecil R. Disbrow, Master................................ 31.36
Herbert R. Welch, Senior W a rden
Howard C. Davis, Junior W ardcn
James Barnett Lawson. P .M. and
Inspector ........................................................ 31 .36
Nicolaus ................._,_ __ No. 129_Donald E . Beilby, Senior Warden................ 17.22
Woodbridge ....................No. 131.... Willard A . Peterson. Master.......................... 13.30
Harold Ringler, Senior W arden
Palmer A. W ells, P .M. and In spector.......... 13.30
J. Herman Hops, Past Master
David E. Kellar, Sr., Past Master
Willard A. Peterson, P ast Master
31.61
Sincerity .............- ...........No. 132.... John L. H all, Master.........................
Edwa rd L. Spellmeyer, P .M. and
31.64
Inspector ........................................
Charles H . P etzwal, Past Master
7.56
Vacaville ........................No. 134.... James J. Hartley, Jr., M as ter..........................
William E. Stith, Junior \Varden
Valley ..............................No. 135....Gerald \V. Freeman, Master.......................... 13.02
PaciAc .................- ...........No. 136.... Robert Shimoff, Master
Earnest P. Fisher, Senior \Va rden
Louis H. Sable, Junior Warden
Albert A. Axelrod, Past Master
Bernard S. Colan, Past Master
Gerald S. Levin, Past Master
Samuel C. Levin. Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Herbert Po thier, Past Master
William McEwen Webster, Past Master
Crockett ..........................No. 139.... Eugene M . Rucker, Master
H enry C. Albert, Jr., Senior Warden
\Valter J. Harlow, Jr., Junior \Varden
William A. Fleische r, Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin. Past Master
Curtis ..............................No. 140.... Floyd M cGrath, Master.................................. 12.32
Grafton _ .._ ..- ...............No. 141.... Not Represen ted
Franklin .............- ........No. 143....Ray Earl Burdg, P.M. and Inspector.............. 12.0i
Oriental ...............- .........No, IH....Charles Toddhecker, Master
Jalmar J. Perttula, Senior Warden
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
John D. Hansen, Past Master
Harold H. Hutchison, Jr., Past Master
Ia n A. Russell, Past Master
7.28
Vitruvlu.. ..........._. ____..No. 145.... Robert Mickelson, Master..................
Carl Christian, Senior Warden
Reynolds Francke, Past Master
Leonard S. N elson, Past Master
Abell ...- .............._______,No. 146.... Charles R. Bell, Master.................................... 16.38
William J. Nagel, Senior Warden
Albert E. Thirkell, P.M . and Inspector........ 16.38
Elmer M. Hopper, Past Master
Eel River ........... - .. -.......No. 1~7.... Alfred E. Pollard, Senior Warden................ 37.24
Orville A. Smith, Junior Warden
LaMen .............................. No, li9.... Carroll A. Brant, Junior Warden.................... 37.80
Elmer Glenn Va n Tassell, P.M. and
Inspector ...................................................... 37.80
Merrill D. Covert, Past Master
Gabriel P. Laxalt, Past Master

412
Name of Lodite

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NI A

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repre!ent:ativ~ •

Milca~e Allo~d

24.08
Molino ···-·············-········No. 150.... Gerald L. Bettman. Master
Cecil M. Huse, Senior W arden
and
.
.M
P
Countryman,
Ario
Lloyd
lnspector ......................................... .
21.78
Warren T. Stannard. Past M;i.~ tC'r
.
.......
11.31
Woodland ······-·-·······-No. 156.... James R. Wright, Master
Walter Pflanz, S enior Warden
Don G. Plank, Past M aster
Keystone ·-·······················No. 161._ Not Represented
Harmony ···········-···········No. 161•.•.Arthur I. Copeland. Senior Warden.............. 28.84
Excelsior ·····-···················No. 166.... George Eging Schneider. Master
Lloyd William Thomas Gray. S1?nior Warden
Delmar Dean Wise. Junior Wardm
Ralph Edwin Flathmann, Past Master
Joseph Clement Kohlbecher. Pa st M<i stl'r
Harry F. Lutticken. Past Ma stl•r
W. Blair Rixon, Past Master
4.62
Alameda ..........................No. 167 ....William Carrion. Master............ ..
V./ es ten Johnson, Senior W ardcn
John McClellan, Junior Warden
164
Red.,.,·ood City ................ No. 168 .... William James Hodgson. M aster
Archie Ray Sherman. Senior W arden
Archie Nolan Sharp. Junior W arden
David Adam, Past Master
Mission ................ - ..........No. 169.... Haig D. Soghomoni;m, M aster
Francis C . Shuman. Senior Ward,·n
G eorgC' C. Murray, Junio r W ard.-n
Jack E. Hursh. Past Master
Robert Lintner. Past Master
Reginald C. Taverner. P<ist Ma ster
H.00
Elk Grove ........................No. 173.... W ilfrcd G. H unt, Maste r .......
Theodore Daley, Senior W ;i rden
Drvtown ···········-····- ·······No. 174.... George W. Easton. Past Master
6.-H
Antioch ·······················-···No. 175.... John Richey. Master................. .
Orland C. Begley. Senior \Vard en
Leo Hernandez. Junior Warden
Morris E. Houlctte, Pnst M;i stcr
63.56
Phoenix ............................No. 178 .... Lorin T. Stipe. Senior W;irden .....
Gilbert T. Trcswcll. Junior \Varden
Ralph Linfosty, Past M 11stcr
Mendocino ......................No. 179.... William N. Escola, Senio r Warden.............. 21.84
20.16
John D. Dearing. Sr .. P.M. and Inspector..
5.32
Petaluma ···········-······· ......No. 180 ....Albert P. Behrens. Jr .. Master............
Emil Joseph Mogel. Senior Warden
Ellsworth W illiam Benn, Junior \Varden
5.32
John Keller. Jr., P.M. and Ins pector
John Carl \ Verner. Past M aste r
8.82
Russian River ············-····No. 18 1....Joseph W. W right, M nster.
Lon D uBose, Senior Warden
Gladstone A. Gillette, Past Ma ~tc r
George K. Porter. Past Master
13.02
Arbuckle .......................... No. 182 .... Al Sylva, Senior W a rden........ .......
Clear Lake ......................No. 183.... H ugh I. Ketterman , Senior Warden.............. 14.98
Sierra Valley .................. No. 184.... Donald W. Webber, Senior Warden............ 30.38
Claiborne ........................No. 185.... Silas B. Carr, Master....................................... 18.06
Archer R. Richardson. Past M aster
Evening Star ..................No. 186.... Not Represented
Kelth .............................._No. 187....Rnlp h L. Eustis, Master................................. 11.20
R. Harlan Husk. Senior Warden
John E. Pate, Junior Warden

Nam< of Lnd~c

No. of Lod~e

413

Rrnrnentcuive&

O akland ..........................No. 188.... N cil S. Harmon, Maste r
Victor D. Arnold. Senior W<ird('n
Willi;im Gcha. Junior W ;-irdcn
M . L. Grnvcs. Past M <1st('r
Northern Light ................No. 190.... Thomas F. Howell. Junior \ V;irJ en .. ... . ...
Marin ..............................No. 19l .... Do:1ald F M urray. M a ster
Lowrence P. M cNcar. Jr., S enior Warden
Eugene Peeples, Junior W ard en
George T. Ro wse. P.M . <1nd Inspector
Joh n V. Bac igalupi. Past Master
Arthu r E . Hessel. Past Master
Lester H. Hicks. Past Master
Horace \V. R ice, Past M ;istcr
\Villiam M. V anderbilt. Past M;1stcr
Santa Barbara ................No. 192.... 0 tto F. Pedersen, Sr., Senior Warden
Robert G. Morrow, Junior Warden
l(oy H. Paine, P.M. and Inspector.
Alfred W. Kincaid. P;ist Master
Ferndale ..........................No. 193.... Dona ld McDonell. Mnstcr .............. .. .
Mountain View ..............No. 194.... Franklin H. Hallc n. M aster............ .
Cha rles \N. Smith, Senior \ Varden
Kl'nd;ill C. Cole, Junior Wn rden
Arno i<agghianti, P.M. <1nd Inspector
Walter L. E ric hst'n, Pnst Maste r
Wendell Grubb, Past l\fa ~tcr
Buckeye ......................._.No. 195.... N. D. Clark, Senior W a rden.......... ..............
Chris Molina, Junior W a rden
M ilton Ho ffe Sharp, P.M. ;ind Inspector....
C. A. Elliot, Past Master
San Simeo n ....................No. 196.... James F . Fry, Elected Rcprcscnt.iti ve............
W ilminQto n ....................No. 198 .... W ilford G. Lundquist, S enior Warden........
Swain E. Lowe, Junior W arJcn
Alton T. Durant, P.M. and Inspector
Thomas F. Mason, Past Master ...... ....
Milton B. M cMullen. Pnst Master
Hartley ............................No. 199.... William F. Morrison, Senior \Varden
Guido de Ghetald1, P.M. and Inspector.. .....
Truckee ...............- .........No. 200.... Melvi n F. Jones, Master.................. .. .. ............
Zephaniah D. Rose, Ju nior Warden
Wayne E. Phillippi, P.M. and In ~pec tor. ...
Jarne.s Mciver. Jr .. Past M aster
Sllveyvllle ...................... No. 201.... J. W . Lewis. Master ............................ .
John R. Phillips, Senior Warden
Dwight K. Parks. Junior \Varden
Herbert E . Pearson. Past M aster
John V.I. Tutt. Past Master
Pentalpha ........................No. 202.... Sherman R. W hitney, Master .. .............. .
Lawrence L. Morrison, Senior Warden
Hownrd J. Henschel, Junior Warden
John M . G ordon, Past Master
William Rhodes Hervey. Jr.. Past Master
Clarence W. H ull, Past M aster
Julius L. Nelson, P<1st Master
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
Confidence ......................No. 203.... James M. Nave, Junior Warden....................
Louis Martin, Past Master
Salinas ..................... -.....No. 204 .... Ra ymond H . Ansell, Master..........................
Archie G. Betts, Ju nio r W arden
Wilton J. Smith, Junior Gra nd Deacon........
Freem;in George S::inders. P.M. and
Inspector ......................................................

32.20

47.60
47.60
38.36
5.18
5.18
9.3.S
9 .3.'S
31.36
59.50
59.711
56.00
17.22
18.48
26.74
26.74
9.10

56.-i2

14.70
15.12
15. l 2
15.12

414
Name of Lod11e

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Repruentativea

No. of Lodge

M ileage Allo~d

23.52
Olivet -····························No. 205 .... John Frederic Winslow, Senior Warden......
Charles Samuel Blackburn, Junior Warden
Stanislaus ........................No. 206.... James Guinn, Sertior Warden.......................... 12.7i
William L. Hurd, P.M. and Inspector............ 14.56
Anaheim ..........................No. 207 .... Robert A. Morris, Master........ ........................ 60.3i
Robert E. Smith, Senior W arden
Arthur S. Osborn. Past Master
Rio Vista ···············-·······No. 208 .... Hale Meader, Senior Warden....................... . 9.52
O lan C. Holmes, Junior Warden
C . Earl Stewart, Past Master
King David's ..................No. 209.... Richard H. Hoffman, Master.......................... 32.i 8
C. Herold Gregory, Senior Warden
David W. Gleason, Past Master
Casper J. Weir, Tr., Past Master
Friendship ......................No. 210.... Paul H olsinger, Master.................................... 7.00
Clyde Goudie, Senior W a rden
E. Bruce Folendorf, Junior Warden
Forrest F. Von Dorsten, Past Master
San Benito ......................No. 21 L .. A lbert W. H inz, Elected Representative...... 13.30
H. A. Hermanse.n, Past Master
South San Francisco ......No. 212 .... Emil Winter, Master
John M. Donaldson, Senior \.Varden
Albert H. Hufnagel, Junior Warden
George A. La stein, Past M aster
Claude John Palmer, Past Master
oseph Ecardamagl ia, Past Master
San Buenaventura ..........No. 214 .... ohn N. Dryden, Senior Warden...... .... ......... 5l.2i
uther H achtmann, Junior Warden
Oak Grove ···-·-··-········ ·No. 215.... 0swald G. Ingold, Master
Philip A. C. Harris. Senio r Warden
Arthur L. Murray, Junior Warden
Joseph L. Buzolich, Past Master
William Nankervis, Jr., Past Master
Doric ................................No. 216.... James D. Brownlee, Master
Stephen H. Brownlee, Senior W arden
Mortimer Gusset, Junior Warden
Ira W. Coburn, Deputy Grand Master
Alexander Home, Past Master
Samuel I. Jacobs, Past M aster
Leonard S. Lurie, Past Master
Philip R. Ringole, Past Master
James S. Rose, Past Master
Monterey ........................No. 217 .... Frank Rodriguez, Senior Warden.................. 16.38
Mosaic ········-············-···No. 218....Jack Stewart, Senior Warden........................ 5.60
Niles B. Bentley, Past Master
Speranza Italiana............No. 219 .... Raymond M. Christain, Master
Raymond J. Baldi, Si>nior Warden
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
Downey ..._.....................No. 220.... Paul A. Bigsby, Master.............................. ...... 5852
Walter B. Meyers, Senior Warden
Elmer Wilkerson , Junior Warden
Inyo ··-·--··············-··········No. 221 .... T. Eugene Ba rrows, Master............................ 60.20
M artin E. Nilius, Past Master
Roseville ···--··-············---No. 222.... James H . Le.foe, Master. ..................... .............. 14.56
John L. D olan, Senior Warden
Bakersfield ···-··--··-·········No. 224 .... Garfield G. Laiblin, Master............................ .. 40.i6
John C. Mitchell, Junior Warden
J. Clifton Carpenter, P.M. and Inspector.... iO.i6
Sam J. Kliewer, Past Master
Lloyd E. Meyers, Past Master
Eugene C. Oldershaw, Past Master

t

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repre&entative•

415
Milea11e Allowed

Brooklyn ......................._.No. 225 .... Richard C. P etersen, Master
Murile W. Stevenson, Junior Warden
Roy H. Lenthall, P. M. and Inspector
Roy F. Anderson, Past Master
D on D . Holm, Past Master
Irving Ma~nes, Past Master
San Mateo ......................No. 226.... Alson C. Rodoni, Master
John T. McHuqh. Senior Warden
Paul F. Seidel. Junio r Warden
Clarence C. Smith, P. M. and Inspector
Earl A. D avis, Past Master
Athens ·············-----··········-No. 228.... V ance A . Turner, Master..................... .......... . 10.08
Robert M. Finlay, Senior Warden
Robert Reed Haussler, Past Master
4.3i
Solano ············-----··········No. 229.... Sam A. Stephens, Master............................... .
Dan C. Robison, Senior Warden
Antonio G. Espinosa, Junior Warden
4.3i
Clarence E. Shoaf, P .M . and Inspector........
Paul J. Billings, Past Master
Robert 0. Gloeckner, Past Master
Gene A. Heinzman, Past Master
Russell C. Jones, Past M aster
Henry A. Mini, Jr., P ast Master
William D. Myska, Past Master
William D. Peden, Past Master
North Butte ....................No. 230.... Kenneth A. Stafford, Master..................... ... .. 18.7t
J. Kenneth Mathews, Senior Warden
Leonard A. Stoumbaugh, Junior Warden
Clare B. Campbell, Assistant Grand Lecture r 18.76
Covelo ··-····· ..····---···-No . 231.... Udell, R. Gravier, Senior Warden.................. 25.48
Janesville ........................No. 232.... Floyd H . Gill. Master.................... ................. 39.06
James E. Trauntvein, Senior Warden
C.alistoga ........................No. 233.... Kenneth M. Hively, Master............................ 10.36
Charles C. Case, Senior Warden
Arvid J. Friedlund, Junior Warden
•
35.70
Hope ................................No. 234.... R. A. Scolari, Elected Representative
Surprise Valley ............_No. 235.... Gordon V. Ash, Master......................:::::::::::: 5H8
Hills Ferry - ....................No. 236.... Alan R. Whitehurst. Master ........................... . 14.42
Chester N. Matsen, Junior Warden
William S. Thompson, P.M. and
Inspector ············-----······-·············--·-··········· 1H2
Guadalupe ......................No. 237.... Thomas G. Cooking, Elected
Representat ive .............................................. 33.0i
H enry R. Gewe, Past Master
John Jenkins, Past Master
Colusa --·-······ ..········-···--··No. 2i0.... W a rren G . Davison, Elected
17.36
Representative .............................. ...........
W ilmer G. Brill. Past Master
Santa Ana - ...................No. 2il.... C harles R. Thomas, Master........................... . 60.90
Thomas G . Homrigha usen, Senior Warden
John L. Taylor, P .M. and Inspector ............ 60.90
Albert F. Hill, P ast Master
Magnolia ·······- -..-·-··---No. 2i2 .._Chester G. H artman, Master.......................... 47.60
Paul T. MacQuiddy, Senior Warden
Ralph C. Hine, Past Master
Eucalyptus ......................No. 243....Arlie R. Fleming, Master
Julius E. V anerweqen, Senior Warden
George D. Hayes, Junior Warden
Walter F. Flierl. Past Master
H enry J. Keim, Past Master
W. Teubert Smith, Past Master
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master

416
Name 0£ Lnd~c

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1-:n. of loJge

Reprcacntativt•

Alcatraz ..........................No. 244 .... Norman Soutar. Master
Charles Nelson, Senior Warden
Wilber L. Misner, Junior Warden
Avis A. Campbell. Past Mastl'r
Edwin A. Clothier. Past Master
Arthur H. Gawne, Past Ma<tcr
Herman H. Pflug. Past Master
John G. Sjoberg. Past Master
Beverley C. Sutliff. Past M ;ist" r
John M. Ward, Past M astt"r
Laurel ..............................No. 245 .... \V. A. Stockton, Mnstcr ... .
Robert P. Dunlnp. Junior \Varden
George Dan Ellis, Past Ma ster
..
Pomona ..........................No. 246.... \Vilkim E . \ \l;i ll ir.. M ;ist1•r.......
Eugene R. O vt"rholt, Senior W arden
E arl C. Lowe. Junior Warden
Harold M. Christensen, Past !\faster
fresno ..............................No. 2H.... Lcster M. G ri mm, Master .......... .
·······
Donald L. Anderson, Senior Warden
Robert 0 . Tyrrell. Junior \.Vard en
George Hiatt. Past Master
John Loren Stew11rt, Jr. , Past M.1stcr
Alturas ............................No. 248.... Not Represented
Adin ................................ No. 250.... Aubrc\' C. Biebe r. Master....... ....................
Landmark ........................ No. 253.... Frcd K. Ha ines. Master .......... .
Don \Varren. Senior Warden
Reading ·····-·······-·············No. 254.. .. Edward A. Samuelson. Master
Roy A. Avey. Senior W ;irde n
Albert A. Bryceson, P .M. and Inspector..... .
Albert F . Ross. Past Master.. ... ..... ... .
William H. Schooler. Past M11stcr
George W. Sturm, Put Master . .
Welcome ·················-·····No. 255 .... Charles Vaughn, Senior W;irck n .
J. Ralph Dawdy, P.M . <ind Inspector
Lodi ..................................No. 256.... Ger;ild L. Christen ~en. Master
Ezra M. Ehrhardt. Senior W arden
Penrhyn ..........................No. 258 .... Genc C. Holley. M aste r.................. .
Evergreen ........................No. 259 .... Evcrett C. Ross. Senior Warden..... .
Harlan C. Sandusky, Junior Warden
\Villiam Henry Price, P.M. and Inspector ....
Byron C. Morton, Past Master......... .
King Solomon's ..............No. 260 ...Alfred S. Cohen. Senior 'vVMd~n
Ulysses George Patropulos. P.M. and
Inspector
Henry E. B('nnett. Sr., P.1.' t Milst('r
Charles F. Burrows. Past Master
Thomas W. Chinn. Past Master
Edwin J. Conn, Sr .. Past Master
Stephen J. Dean. Jr.. Past Master
E ug,rne S. Hopp. Past Master
Albert 0 . Rier, Past Master
Samuel B. Stevenson. Past Mastt>r
John E. Werry, Past Ma ster
Tuscan ............................ No. 261....C. Jefferson Hurtt. Elected Representative ..
Lompoc ............................ No. 262.... Paul E. Highfill. Senior \Varden ...... .. .
Solomon J. Ward. Past Master
...
Hesperian ........................No. 26'4 .... Philip C. Reiner. Senior W arden .
Vernon R. Edwards, Junior Warden
Henry Orashner, P.M. and Inspector
DeWitt Meredith. Past Master
Donald E. Thomas. Past Master

41i

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No. of Lodge

20.H
61.04

25.62

H.9'4
10.92
30.38
30.38
30.38
30.38
29.82
29.82
13. 16
15.96
64.10

64.-40
61.40

15.96
40.18
33.04
33.04

Reprr:1entarivrs

Mileaa• A llow<d

Orland .............................. No. l65.... Robcrt W. Franzen, Senior Warden ............
Galt ···························-·····No. 267.... Frank E. Pearson. Senior Warden ................
Durant ·····················--··No. 268 .... Roger 0 . Gilmore. Master
Leonard A. Komor. Senior Warden
Niles 0 . Millar, P. M. and Inspector
Byron B. Bolfing. Past Master
O liver J. Brown, Past Master
Melvin L. Jory, Past Master
C harles Ratkovich, Past Master
Olive Branch .................. No. 269.... Myron T. Van Ette11 . Master .
David L. Zack , Senior Warden
W. D. Luton, Junior Warden
Snow Mountain .............. No. 271.... Thomas E. H askell, Senior Warden
Pas..,dena .......................... No. 272 .... C larencc A. Oakley, M aster .....
Joe A. Oines. Senior Warden
Richard B. Joslyn, Junior Warden
Ralph T. Merriam. Past Master .......... .
.....
Anchor ............................ No. 273.... 0tis D . Weddle. M aster.... .
Donithan A . \.Vilson. Senior Warden
Kile L. Weeks. Ju11 ior Warden
George Q. Evans, P.M . and Inspt>ctor.. ....... .
William J. Amann. Past Master
Edwin W. Chaffee. Past Master
Theo M . Newtson. Past Master
Richard L. W illiams, Past Master
Arroyo ............................No. 27'4 .... Robert L Baldwin. Srnoor Ward('n
Hu~h 0 . Pope. Jr.. Junior W ctrden
LoRay C. Bair. Past Master
\.\falter A. Baxter. Past Master
Oakdale ..........................No. 275 .... Rob('rt c. Chicou. Master............ ................ .
Ellsworth R. Lerch. Senior Warden
St>lma .............................. No. 277.... Harry E. Hiraok<i. Senior Warden. .............. .
Southern ullfornia ........No. 278 .... G. Edward Byers. Master......... .................. .
Lawrence Eliason. Senior W arden
•
William J. Cook. Past Master
Frank Galvery . Past Master
A. R. E. Roome. Past Master
Harold Spender, Past Master
Karl Konig. Past Master
Hanford .......................... No. 279 .... Not Represented
Madera ............................No. 280.... D. Conley Winder. Senior Warden ......
Thomas A. Fhy, Junior Warden
Mt. Shasta ...................... No. 281.. ..Robert S. Rutherford. Jr.. Master................. .
Walter L. Grimm. Senior Warden
Anthony B. MoM, Past Master
Callayoml ........................ No. 282.... James A. Minor. Elected Represcntativ(' ..... .
South We~ .................... No. 283.... \Valter H. Ridenour. Senior Warden ............
Clarence E. Guffey, Junior Warden
Robert H . Beetlcstone. Past Master
Edw. C. Wright, Sr .. Past Master
San Mtgud ...................... No. 285 .... M<1uricc C. Getzelman. Elected
Rcprcsentativ(• ............................................. .
Paso Robles ....................No. 286.... Earl L Van Vorst. Muster . .................. .
Paul L. Turner, P.M. and Inspector............. .
Wionedumah .................. No. 287....William E . Hollis, Sen ior Warden............... .
Wilfred W. Partridge, P .M . and liupector..
Maxwell ..........................No. 288.... Hugh B. Small, Senior Warden ..................... .
Elsinore .......................... No. 289 .... C. Jack Liefer. Senior Warden..................... .
Howard G. Habenicht, Past Master

21.70
12.32

31.711
21.70
57.5-i
57.54
58.38

58.38

34.72

13.30
27.72
56.42

22.54

28.8'4
12.74
73.64

27.16
28.42
28.42
53.90
53.90
17.22

66.08

418
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
N o. of Lodge

Represcntativeo

Mil<>ge AllOWed

East Gate ........................ No. 290.... Hugh Allen Dinning. Master.......................... 56.42
Bernard W . Warkentine, Senior Warden
John Alle n Crosby, Past Master
Curtis C. Orrell, Past Master
Emlyn W. Reese, Past Master
Santa Paula ··---·--·-----···No. 291.. .. Francis W . H ertel. Jr.. Senior Warden.......... 53.48
Gustaf A. B. Quick, Past Master
Los Gatos ........................No. 292.... Clarence \V. Burrier, Jr .. Master.................... 7.42
William 0 . Broadstone. Senior Warden
Mario Rossi. Junior \Varden
Orange Grove ·······--·····No. 293.... \Villiam D. Sa ppington, Master.................... 60.62
George F. Gorham. Senior W arden
Leon 0 . Whitsell, Past G rand Master
Traver ..............................No. 294.... Clarence E . Hedberg, Master.......................... 28.i2
Carrol P. H ansen. Senior Warden
Robert N. Rouch. Past Ma ster
Gordon E . Scott, Past Master
Mt. Jackson ···--············.No. 295.... William C. Cbenowith, Senior Warden........ 9.66
Silver Gate - ···-·-·-·---No. 296....G. Merton Rose. Master.................................. 73.08
Theodore F . McWilliams. Senior \Varden
Fred S . W eed, P .M. and Inspector... ~ .. ......... 73.08
Oakley D . North, Past M aster
Dunsmuir ····-···--···-···No. 297....Robert C. Harris, Master............................ .... 37.94
Liberty ·--·····-······---·..No. 299.... Harry Mo rris. Master...................................... 6.30
Robert G . Davis, Junior Warden
John W . Ba ker, Jr., P.M. and Inspector........ 6.86
Walter M . E lmer, Past M aster
Chester J. Grant. Past Master
R. C. Trogden. Past Master
Redlanda ..........................No. 300....William H. Smith, Senior Warden................ 64.40
Howard E . Repf. Junior Warden
Kenneth Dowel, P.M. and Inspector............ 6552
Ontario ·---····-·················No. 301. ...Theron W . W orstine, Senior Warden.......... 60.76
James A. Curry, Junior Warden
Santa Lucia _______No. 302 .... Lester T . Schell, Junior W arden.................... 21.H
Ree C. Grim, Past Master
Fred Y. Mar, Past Master
Porterville ··--····--·.No. 303.... Eugene N. vVilley, Master.............................. 3i.86
Harold F. Wilcox, Senior W arden
Melvin C . Santry, Jr .. Junior Warden
Fred T . Belton, Past Master....
Reedley ···--···-·-····-···No. 30i.... Joe Caesar, Master.......................................... 28.56
Azusa ···-····-····-·-····-No. 305....Donald D . Ryrie. Master............................ .... 59.50
Albert L. Wise, Senior W arden
Charles B. McLees, Past Master
Ashlar ··--·····--··-No. 306....John E. Prince. Senior Warden...................... 64.68
Arthur R. Knutson, Junior W a rden
Robert W . N icol. P.M. and Inspector.......... 64.68
Santa Monica -·--··-·····No. 307._ Walter R. Ringwald, Master.......................... 56.li
Paul C. Bruce, Senior W a rden
George W. Pike, Junior W arden
Monrovia ··--·-···-·····No. 308 .... James D. Ferrell, Master.................................. 58.52
Clyde C. Ferguson. Senior Warden
W alfrid M. Setterlund, Past Mastet"
Delano - ··-·--·-·---·No. 309.... Marvin J. Sands, Master.................................. 36.26
Clark E . Murray, Senior Warden
Sisson ·····--···--········- ····No. 310.... H. R. B. Willia ms. Master.............................. 39.20
Irving Astmann, Senior W arden
Loe Banos ··-···----·No. 312 .... Frank Jones Brown. Senior W arden. ........... 17.64
Theodore C. Conwell, Past Master

Notnc of Lod~•

No. of Lod2e

Repr esentative•

419
M iln11e Allowed

Tehachapi ......................No. 313 .... Hugh Ernst, Master.......................................... 46.3-1
Wesley Hedberg. Senior Warden
Arthur Wallace, Junior Warden
Temescal _____..................No. 314.- Robert E. Francisco. Senior \.Varden............ 63.00
Elmer F. Bates, Jr., Junior W a rden
Norwalk ······················-·No. 315.... J. B. Parker, Senior Warden.......................... 58.52
C harles P. Lagutaris, Junior Warden
Sanger ............................No. 316.... David T. Patillo, Senior Warden.................. 27.72
W ayne E. Burk, Past Master........................ 27.72
Fa!lbrook ···-···············-··No. 317 .... Charles E. Stubblefield. Jr.. Senior Warden.. 70.70
James W. Belford, Junior Warden
Emmanuel ........................No. 318.... Herbert Meyer, E lected Representative........ 19.32
Hollenbeck ......................No. 319 .... Alfred R. Simmons. Master............................ 56.42
Robert Burton, Senior \ Varden
Fred M cCoy. Jun ior W arden
Roy T. Kiele, P .M. and Inspector.................. 56.42
Conrad F ollendore, P ast Master
T homas J. Owens, Jr., Past Master
South Gate ............- .......No. 320.... Don F. Anders. M aster................................ .... 56.42
Frank Hasper, Jr .. Senior Warden
Mark A. Green, Past Master.......................... 56.42
David H . Terry, Past Master
5.46
Alisa! ·-··-·············--··-······No. 321 .... Revis E . Wensel. M aster................................
James A. Thompson, Senior Warden
Gerald E. Dailey. Junior Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
George M . Riddell, Past Master
Alhambra ··········- ··--····--·No. 322....Leon W ilemon, Master.................................... 57.40
W illiam G. Yerg er, Senior Warden
Roscoe B. Easton, Junior Warden
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
Elmer S. Higbie, Past Master
Whittler ...........................No. 323.... W illia m 0 . Jackson, M aster............................ 57.82
Robert B. Shelton, Senior Warden
Roscoe W. Farris, Past Master
Clar ence \V. Peck, Past Master
Corona ............................No. 324 .... Stua rt A. W arren, M aster.............................. 57.54
Ra lph Skillen. Senior Warden
Aron G. Marcus, Past Master
Roy Ra smussen, Past Master
Edward H. Rowins, Past Master
Consuelo ..........................No. 325.... Colin M. Gair, Jr., Senior Warden................ 71.1 2
Walter R. Johnson, Junior Warden
Thomas W. Eckford, Past Master
Needles ............................No. 326....Leonard Walker. M aster................................ 79.66
Revis Hall, Senior W arden
W illiam R. Ca rty, Past Mast<"T
Long Beach ·······-··········No. 327.... Sherwin W. T ubbs. Master............................ 60.06
Franklin 0. Estes, Senior W arden
John H . Ferguson, P.M. and Inspector........ 60.06
George P. Calderwood, Past Master
Henry G. Van Dyke, Past Master
Redondo ..........................No. 328 .... Robert L. Tucker, Senior Warden.................. 57.96
Donald J. Shoemaker, Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Pa.st Master
Vallee De France ..........No. 329.... Jules Des Forges. Master................................ 56.42
Andre Caen, Past Master
Vita lis Ezratty, Past Master
Michel Gaul, P ast Master
Kilauea ·········-··- -···No. 330....T. David Woo, S enior Warden .................... 38 1.19

420

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
G RAND LODGE O P CALI FORN IA

Name of Lod1e

No. of Lodge

421

Re.prcsent.ulvcJ

......................
Paci8c Grove ..................No. 331.. .. Robert H. Davis, Master.
Ell.5worth H. Burson. Senior W a rden
Edwin Arthur Cope. Past Master
Daniel B. Turrentine. Past Master
San Prdro ........................No. 332.... John H. Maule. Master . ..
Joseph L. Bl'iley. St'nior Warden
Vern L. Bekhl'r. Junior Warden
Alta -·········-······················No. 333 .... Ldand Ray Charleboi s. Master ......... .
August E. Hess. Sl'nior Warden
Covina ............................ No. 33-i .... Aden N Bradley. Senior W itrden ........... .
Robert H. Vanlueven, Junior Warden
Wayne C. Bates. P .M . and Inspector .. ... ..
Robert M. H enry. Past Ma ster
....................... .
Wt'~t Gate ...................... No. 335 .... Zoltan Tronstl'in. Master...
Sam Franklin. S!'nior VV'<1rd en
Louis Nordlinger. Jr .. Junior Warden
H. Walter Robbins. Past M aster
Fruitvale .......................... No. 336.... Lec na rd 0. H;ins('n. Ma<trr
Burton 0 . Youno. Junior \Varden
Arthur G. Berger. Past Master
Paul A. Brom. Past Ma.5tcr
Russell C. H orstmann . l\ 1.<t M;ister
Rudolph Jenny, Past M;ist<'r
Robert D. Rhien. Past Master
Carqulnez ........................No. 337 .... Eltoo L. Turner, Electro Representative ....
San Jacinto ......................No. 338.... Carl W. Reid. Senior Warden........................
Fullerton ..........................No. 339.... James B. Hanke. Jr., Mast<'r
Loy Moore, S enior Warden
J. 0. R;iyn<'. P;i<t Mil.'lter
W . T . Rodg<'r. Past M<1st<'r
Oxnard .....................- .....No. 341.... Rolland ~ - Stc<'k MaSstcr. \V ...d... ·
ar en
Orvl'nc S. Ca rpenter. enror
\,Villia m. ). Watts. Junior Warden
Ron<ild F . Jon es. P.M . a nd Inspector. ........ .
Will i1"1 N. Jo nes. Past Master
Loui ~ H. Lipscomb. Past M;ister
San Fernando ................No. 3i3 .... Gk :m A. Lo ng. Senior W;irden ......................
Robert G. Wi eser, Junior Warden
W illiam H. H arris. Pa~t M aster
Starr King ......................No. 3H .... l ;ick Gordo n. Mvst<'r
Ronald Miguel. Senio r Warden
Myron . Rosenberg, Junior Warden
Alfred F. Breslauer. Past G r;, nd Mast~r
Al H. Barkoff. P<1st Master
Arthur S. Becker, Past Master
Charles Bechr, P;,st Master
Hal Curtis, Past MiL~tcr
Michael V . Ignot:z:. Past M<1ster
Bernard J. Joseph. Past M aster
Ben A. Kau, Past Master
Arthur Salomon. Past Master
Halman L. W ayne, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg. Past Master
Brentwood ......................No. 3i5 .._James C. Watson, Junior Warden ..................
Oren A. Howard, Past Master
Palo Alto ....••..................No. 3-i6.... Lloyd M . Harms, Master.. .................. ......
Eugene T. Whitten, Senior W arden
Carl T. N ewman, Junior W arden
L. Harold Anderson, P ast G rand Master
Adam B. Morten. Past Master ....................... .

N1mt of Lod11e

17.08

60.20
41 .30

59.64
59.08
56.42

3.92
68.60
60.20

52.64
52.6i
52.92

k

7.84

HS

7.i2

No. of Lodge

RcpreJCntativo

McKinley ·········-·········--··No. 3i7.... Horace H. Warnock, Master
T amie! S. Silberman. Senior Warden
Hillard M. Reeves. Junior Warden
Tro y Anderson, Past Master
Charles Baptie. Past Master
Fred R. De Barrows. Past Master
Willia m E . Richmond, Past Master
Peter S lavazza, Past Master
San Bernardino ..............No. 3i8 .._ Walter A. Tompkins, Master.................. .
63.56
Hollis G. Hartley, Senior \Varden
John M . Heron, Sr., Past Master
Victor N . Hodge, Past Master
Sequoia ............................ No. 3i9.... Donald F. Gipson, Master
James B. Margetts, Senior Warden
\Villiam B. Jensen. Junior Warden
Merrill D . Coy. P.M. and Inspector
Herbert S. Gigelow. Past Master
George C. Courregcs. Past Master
Frank D . Gatter, l'>ast Master
Cyril W. McClean. Past Master
J. W a lter Proctor. Past Master
Henry S. Savage. Past Master
Palestine ..........................No. 35L..Leon A. Risk, Master ...................................... . 56.i2
Richard L. Allday. Junior Warden
Sunset ··-·······...................No. 352.... Melvin E . A ustin. Senior Warden ..... .
56.i2
L. D. Foster Belote. Junior Warden
John H. Hardy, Past Master
William Kludj ian, Past Master
Pinole ........·-·····-··········--No. 353.... Alfred L. Freitas. Master...... . ....... .
3.78
E verett W . Cole, Senior Warden
Joseph E. Webb, Past Master
Presidio ............................No. 35i.... David R. Noah. Master
Clyde L. Wood. Senior \.Varden
Alexander Yaroma. Junior Warden
Joseph M yron Ruggiero, P .M. and lnsp<'ctor
A lexander L. Croce, Past Master
Eric R. Johnson. Past Master
William D. Berbarg , Past Master
Edward H . VJilkins, Past Master
HoUywood ......................No. 355 .... Philip G. Wood, Master ...................
55.H
Corydon J. Glazier, Senior \Varden
Philip J. M. Doyle, Junior Warden
Leo E. Anderson. Past Grand Master ......... . 56.42
Erwin H. Gebhardt, P .M. and Inspector ..... . 56.i2
Wallace H . Beaudry, Past Master
John T. Bond, Past Master.......................... 56.4 2
James P. Davidson, Past Master
Milton R. Entwistle, Past Master
Robert T. Gilmore, Jr.. Past Master
Fred E. G reen, Past Master
Ira 'vV. Merrill, Past Master
Samuel Steelman, Past Master
Mill Valley ··············-····No. 356.... Morris E. Burch, Master
Harold R. Henry, Senior \ Varden
Richard A. Dangers, Junior W arden
Stanley C. Aitchison. Past Mastn
H enry D . Lackewandt. Past Mastrr
Howard A. Ronning. Past Master
Kent Seymour, Past Master
Buena P11rk ...................... No. 357.... Luke H. Sheek, Senior 'Warden ....... ........... ... 59.22
Frazer G. Ridd lesperger. Junior Warden
Ted R. Siems. P.M. and Inspector................ 60.34

422
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORN !A

PROCEED INGS OF THE
No. of Lod11e

Repre&entative1

M ileage Allo.ied

Golden State ..................No. 358.... George R. Brown, Sr .. M aster........................ 56.i2
J. Harry Smith, S enior Warden
Burton M eyer, Jr .. P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.i2
Winfield R. C ram, Past Master
Loyalton ·-··-····--········--No. 359.. _Clinton Fleming. Master......---··················-····· 32.20
San Francisco- Victory .. No. 360.... Lester M. Petterson. Master
William H. Hook. Senior Warden
William C. Bird. Past Master
H arry T . Darr, Past M aster
Albert F. Enderlin. Past Master
Joseph C. Heim, Past Master
Kenneth W. Hink le, Past Master
\Villiam F. Jebe, Past M aster
Henry D. Oliphant. Past Master
Otto von Raven, Past Master
Port Bragg ......................No. 361.._Carl W. Sauer, Elected Representative........ 23.2i
Charity ··········-·-- ··------No. 362.... Elver J. Bohnett. Jr., Senior W arden............ 6.86
James R. Dyer, Jun ior Warden
Rudy L. Nelson. Past Master
W illiam H . Scott, Past Master
onald K. Akey. Master
D
....
363
····No.
··---····-··Berkeley
John R. Ingram, Senior \!Varden
Floyd K. Smith. Junior \'Varden
William H . Adams. Past Master
Oliver E. McLea n, P ast Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Wllllt3 ·····--······ -····-··-No. 365.... Charles H. Cavanaugh, Junior Warden........ 19.(J()
W. D. Ford, Past Master
........................ 25.62
Las Palmas --·-····· .. ···-·····No. 366....George B. Posson. Master......
Allard D . D admun. Senior W arden
Martin Edward Allred. Junior Warden
Walter Price Robinson, Past Master
South Pasadena ·-··--····N o. 367.... W endell F . Hockersmith, Senior Warden.... 57.82
Daniel J. Schmid, Jun ior \!Varden
Ralph W. Cutler, P .M. and Inspector.......... 57.82
Clyde E. Colvin, Past Master
George W. Roche. Past Master
Unity ···--·-··- -·-·-··-No . 368....C. Lee Skillman, Master.................................. 56.00
Arthur M . Johnson, Senior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Grand Master........ ·-················· 57.5i
C. Leland Jenkins. Grand Sword Bearer........ 56.00
Arthur Campbell, Past M aster
Dan M. Campbell, Past Master
Fred M. Clark. Past Master.....- ..................... 56.00
William E. S. Jarrett, Past Master
James C. McCluske y, Past Master
Homer E. Rathbun, Past Master
Ocean Park ·····-···--·····No. 369.... Clifford E. McMaster , Master..... ................... S6.H
Howard 0 . Guilford, Senior Warden
Karl D. Duge, Junior Warden
Theodore B. Pach, P .M . and Inspector. ....... 56.H
L. Carl Petersen, Master
....
370
.
············No
Amity ···-····-·······
Robert E. Pinomaki, Senior Warden
Noel H. Neel. Junior \Varden
Paul A . PBueger, Assistant Grand Treasurer
W illiam A . Cohendet. Past Master
Duncan S. E llis, Past Master
Henry 0. Hammerich. Past Master
V . V. Kolornbatovic. Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry. Past Master

Naine of Lod11~

No. of Lodge

Representativ u

423
M ileage Allowed

le Progru de l'Oceanie....No. 371 ....Char1es N . p·inson, senior Warden
·············· 338.19
Alan H. Strike, P ast Master
Gardena ..........................No. 372.... Hu11h W . Pitman , Senior W arden
58.38
Arthu.r J. Setzer, Junior Warden ················
Robert E. Crist, P.M. and Inspecto r
58.38
Keith W. Schlaegel, Past Master....:::::::::::::: 58.38
r
Maste
eel,
T
West Los Angeles -········No. 373.... Alva G.
56.42
Robert E. Clark. Senio~\~;;d~~···--· · ··· ···· ····· ··
John E . Tison. Junior Warden
Harold \V. Hasbrouck. Past Master
Egbert 0. Matthews, Past Master
Jewel ·-·····························N o. 374 .... Ph ilip Tudor. Master
Rexford Elder, Senior Warden
Ralph Johnston, Junior W arden
John H. Adams, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Elmer James. Past Master
\ Villard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Herbert H. Schultz, Past M aster
Lou H . Silberman, Past Master
W illiam Van Ornum, Past Master
Richmond ........................No. 375 .... James McCubbin, Master
Matthew McCubbin. Junior Warden
Emil K. Bender, Past Master
Alfred Brunner. Past M aster
James Conner, Past Master
M yrton W . Erickson, Past Master
James Leo H alley, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Master
Franch Drake --·-····--N o. 376.... Morris M . Eisenbrey , Master
Kenneth H. Dowd, Senior Warden
Harlan B. Merritt, Junior Warden
John D. D ean, Past Master
'robias Troneum, Pas t Master
58.9i
Artesia ····-···················--No. 377._Roy D. Blackwell, Senior Warden
Mizpah ···-·····-···-···-·-···No. 378__ Grady E. McDowell Master..... ···········-··· 56.12
Robert L. LeFrancoi ;, Senior W~~d~~--- ········
H arry Labrow, Ju nior W arden
George W . Perkins, P.M . a nd Inspector...... 54.32
W. Lewis Thompson, Past Master
5i.88
Fillmore ···-·····--··············No. 379 Freddy E Thrower Master
·-William L. Dorman: Senior W~d~~---···········
W. Howard Price, Past Master
Huntingto o Beach --------No. 380..-Dcxter G . Whitfield, Master........ ·-····-········ . 62.H
Edwin H . Mossingcr, Senior Warden
62.H
Berrell R. Ries, P.M. and Inspector
················
A. F . Lockett, P ast Master
Master
Past
Alan T . Ries.
Oceanside -·······--····-- ······No. 381....Cha rles Baldridge, Senior Warden............... . 68.32
Homer B. Davis, Junior W a rden
Kenneth C . Stanley, P.M. and Inspector..__ _ 68.32
C harles C. Inskeep, Past Master
. Jimmy Winston, Master..·-···-······-············· 56.i2
ThR
....
Hlghland Park ...•..•.........No. 382
omas L.B. G leason, Senior Warden
Floyd F. Boyer, Past Master
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Morrelli, Senior W a rden.
29.26
Oros! - ·-···- ···-···-··-·· ··No. 383.... Arthur
·······-·········
Jack H . Peloian, Past Master

424
N~mc of 1.oJg.t

PROC EEDI N GS OF THE
No. of LodR<

N 0 384

ReprrM "ntativ ts

Robe rt S. Burke. Mast er ......
86.2-t
•
····Jesst' J Cam pbell , Senio r War···den··
Elmr r ·w. H<.'ald. Senio r Gran d Ward en.
86.2-t
N orbert P . T ester. P.M. and Inspe ctor
86.2-t
..
Darrnll G. Dixo n, Past Mast er
N
385
Char
les
C.
Woo
ley. Senio r War den .
29.54
Dinu ba ............................ 0 ·
···· Clilrcnce L. Frase r. P .M .
and Inspector
29.5-t
Arthu r A. Anderson. Past Master
No.
387
....
Raym
ond A. Booth. Senior Ward en.
29.12
Coal tnga ..........................
Fran k w. Spea r. Past
Mast er
N
88
Robert E. Petersen. Master
Parna ssus ........................ 0 • 3 .... John
F. Palm er, Senio r Ward en
Kenneth E . Hopp er. Junio r \,Varden
James E . Finle y. P.M. and Inspe ctor
Carl H . Allen. Past M aster
Philip R. Chap in. Past M astt>r
Wall ace A. Pag er. Past Mcister
Homer D. Robe rtson . Past Mast er
Robert C. Thom son. Past Mastt>r
ert M. Cron quist . Mast er .....
60.06
Palos Verd es ......... .........N 0 • 38 9... . Herb
Paul L. Willi amso n. Senio
r W arden
Thom as R. Lewis, Past Mastt>r
Atl;is J. Dave s. Senior War den ......... ......
8i .M
Imperial ..........................N 0 • 390.... Wald
.
19.<t6
East Belt ................. .........No. 391 ····Geo o Geor ge Wae lty. Mast er .................
rge Gra y H ard. Jr.. Senio r Ward en
W allace H. Fiske, P.M. and Inspe ctor.
. ... ... 19.<t6
N 392 How ard C. Alphson. Junio r
Ward en............ 56.<t2
We5 t Lake ...................... 0 •
.... Lloyd v . Smith . P .M . and
lnspc<:tor
56.<t2
\.\/nit er L. Berger, Past Mast t'r
Frank R. Brun ner. Past M11ster
Wall ace E. Lund wall. Past M11.q~
Robe rt C . Peyto n. Past Mast er
John A. Sicke nberger. Past Mast rr
N
rd G. Bloom, Master
8alde r
................... o. 393···· Cliffo
Stanl ey E. Gust
avson , Senior War d<'n
Heinrich Beuster. Junior Ward en
Harr y M . Michelsen. P.M . and inspector
Walt er E. Ande rson. Past Master
LeRo y W. Johnson. Past Mast er
Clare nce D. Lindstrom, Past Ma.~t<'r
Clare nce J. Moqu in. Past Mast er
C . Eina r Nelson, Past Master
Robe rt W. Rose , Past Master
Nels S. Stohl . Past Mast er
·ver• i'ty ........ ........ ...... No. 394 Ralp h
.. 56.<t2
R. Atkinson, Mast er.W
Unl
~
.... Frede rick
E. Cutle r. Junior ......a r.d....en.
Willi am T . Lisenby, Jr.. Past M a.,tr r
Myro n E. Smith. Past Master
N
Cha rles O. Read , Mast er ........................
H.56
Turlo ck ............................ 0 • 395····B
·
en
enian11·n H · Pettu s • Senio r Ward
d
Carl A. Ham lo w, Junior War en
E . R. Gast er, Past Mast er
Mayn ard J. Beckie. Mast er
Apollo .............................. N0 • 396···· Harr
y B. Conw ay. Jr .. Senio r Ward en
William S. Pa rker. Jr.. Junio r Ward en
Alfred Johnson. P.M . and Inspector
David P . Russell. Pa~t Mast er
Kay W . Sorensen. Past Master
Carl E . Thau , Past Mast er
57.12
Ch rles D. Acke rman, Mast er ·· .........
Rising Light ........ ... .........No. 397 ····J
~es R. MacPher!\On. Tunio r \V;ml~n ........ .
El Ct-ntro ·····················-·

GRA ND LODG E OF CALI FORN IA
N•m< ol Lod~c

No. of Lod~c

Repres entative&

425
Mil e•~<

Allowed
Frate rnity .................. ......No, 399 .... Jamt'
s T. Sarri s. Mast er . .... . .... .
7.00
\Villiam T. Leev er, Senior Ward en
Victo r J. Lewin, Junio r Warden
Burll ngame .................. ....No. 400.... H .
Glen n Stirm. Master
John L. Crellin, Senior War drn
\.Valt
Bay View ........................ No. 40 1.... Robe er C. Schafer. Past Mast rr
rt L. H ussey. Mast er
Milto n C. Buck ky. S<'nior \Var den
Albe-rt R. Ireton, Sr .. Junior \Varden
Euge ne H . Dopp. Past M a~ter
E . C. Lamp, Past Milst er
John E. Ni xon, Past Master
Edwin M. \ Vetmore. Past Mast er
Fred W. Wetmo re, Past Master
Braw ley ..........................No, 402 .... Willi
am D. Presley. Mast er........ .. .
8H4
Billy
Verb a Buena ..................No. 403.... Char J. Bellen fant. Senio r \Var den
les W . Mart in. Master
Willi am M. Gibson. Senior \Van .kn
Vance R. Haswell. Junio r \Va rden
Lester S. McE lwain . Past Mast er
Glend ora .................. ...... No. 404 .... Rogc
r L. Jacqu ay, Mast er ......... ........ ..... ...
59.78
Jame
Mone ta ............................No. 405 .... Geor s Randolph, Senio r \Var den
ge S. Nye. Mast er .................. ............. ..
56.42
E. Jack Bodenhamer, Senio r \V<irden
Bill T . Jordan. Junio r Warden
Burbank ......... ................. No. 406 ....Dcan
E. Oswa ld. Mastl'r ...............
55.4-t
Doug lass H . Selby. Senior War den.
Thom as ]. Russe ll. Jun ior War den
VI/. D. Hopkins, Past Master
Robe
La Mesa ......... .................No. 407.... 0. rt E. Nelso n, Past Mast er
Glen Mora n, Mast er .............. ...... .
7H8
H enry A. Lamb ert, Senior War den ..
War d A. Blackman , Junio r W arden
Lorenza H. Shaw , P.M. and Inspector.
Sierr a Mad.re .................. No. 408 .... Dom
7'1.62
inic J. Boggio, Senior \Vard(·n
51U.S
Samu el L. Grah am, Past Maste r ...... .
Hono lulu ........................ No. 409 .... Abra
ha m Aiona. Senio r \Va rden..... ..
338.19
Robe rt
Char ter Rock ········· ··- ···-·N o. 410 .... Fraok Edga r. P. M. a nd Inspe cto r...... .
34 1 69
lin S. Browne, Master
Do nald E. Hage rman , Senio r Ward
Ralph Albe rt Stanl ey. Past Ma ster en
W ebste r W. Wilco x, Past Master
Perris ......... .....................No. 411.. ..H
erschell Glover, Senio r W arden ......... ........
Calex ico ........ .................. No. i 12.... Joe
D . P etree , Mast er................................. _.. . 66.36
. 86.94
Rene R. Romero, Senio r \Varden
Thom as M. Remington, Past Master
Arlin gton ...................... _No. 414.... Melv
in V. Palm er. Mast c.r.................
Roos W. Seton, Jr., Senio r Ward en ........... . 56.42
Silver Trow el ········ ·-·····N o. 4 15 .... Isaac
W. Wilson, Master .......................... .. ..
55.i4
W ayne Song er, Junior Ward en
Irvin g Shulkin, P.M. and Inspe ctor.........
......
.
54.60
Jerom
Lindsay ............................No. i 16.... Dona e B. Rosen, Past Master
ld K. Landers. Mast er. .................. .........
33.46
Delmer A. Murd ock, Senio r \ Vard en
Alva A. D aniells. P.M. and I nspector.........
.. . 33.46
Clovis ......... ..................... No. 417.... Gcra
ld A. Share r, Senio r Ward en. ............... 26.18
E. Glen Mosier, Junio r W arden
Elysian ·················-·········No. 418 ....C harks
K. Sche rtlc, Mast er................. ........... 56.42
Audr ey L. Smith. Senio r War den
f-lc nry A. Taylor, Junio r Ward en
Guy Woo lley, Past Master

426
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representative•

Upland ________ __No. 419._.Tord H. Berg, Master....................·-············-· 61.46
Michael J. Hanna, Junior Warden
J. Harry Snowden, Past Masttt
Kerman _________ No. 420-Charles E. Lee, Senior Warden...·-··········-····· 24.78
Inglewood ···--······---No. 421.._William D. Richardson, Master................... . 58.10
John C. Gebhart, Senior Warden
Charles M. Gawthrop, Junior Warden
Marion B. Burke, Past Master
Claude E. Cole, Past Master......................... . 58.10
Leonard E. Matson, Past Master
J. Loran Robertson, Past Master
Eagle Rocle ·····-···-····--·No. 422....Thomas A. Lorenzen, Senior Warden.......... 56.42
Elton F. Blum, Junior Warden
James E. Calhoun, Past Master
M. Howard Lawyer, Past Master
Thomas A. Mooney, Past Master
No. 423-James Restivo, Master.......·-·····-··········-········· 57.26
York
Exeter _ _ _ _No. 424_.John D. Durant, Elected Representative.. ·-··· 32.90
Holtville ________ _No. 425....Lowell W. Sutherland, Master........_ ........... 86.66
Midway -·-··---·-No. 426....Walter E. Wahl, Senior Warden....·-··········· 41.58
Woodrow J. Krigbaum, Junior Warden
Earl W. Smith, Past Master
Robert A. Smith. Past Master........................ 41.58
No. 427__ David M. Waters, Senior Warden..·-······-·- 61.04
Chino Valley
Chades R. Holbrook, Junior Warden
R. W. C. Storms, Past Master
San Dimas --··-···-···.No. 428....Waldo Mutin, Senior Warden........·-········-· 60.34
Pittsburg ··--···-··--·-···No. 429....Matt E. Hale, Master....·-····-·······-··············· 5.60
Earl A. Robinson, Senior Warden
Ralph Lopez, Junior Warden
W . Ralph Anderson, P.M. and lnspeclior..... . 5.60
John C. Brown, Past Master
William G. Buxton, Past Master
Archie V. McFaul, Past Master
McOoud ·-········---····No. 430.._Charles A. Langdon, Senior Warden............ 40.32
Phil N. Mrers, Past Grand Master................ 56.42
Percy W. indt, P.M. and lmpector.............. 37.94
___ No. 431..-Kenneth C. Wright, Master
Alpha
Kenneth B. Henson, Senior W ardm
Walter A. Horne, Junior WClil"den
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
Hammonton -···-······--No. 433.•-Merl S. Kennedy, Senior Warden.................. 16.94
Wayne A. Dahling, P.M. and Inspector..·-··· 16.52
Maricopa ···-····-·---No. 434..•.John E. Colbert, Elected Representative........ 42.56
Carl E. Moore, P.M. and Inspector................ 42.56
Fairmount _ _ _ __No. 435-Walter Edwin Waite, Master
John Q. Mayberry, Senior Warden
Alexander P. L:abernadie, Junior Warden
Ivan Crase, Past Master
Pieter A. de Vries, Past Master
Edward R. Pootel, Past Master
William 0. Purdy, Past Master
William K. Raines. Past Master
William H. Scott, Past Master
Joseph A. Teresi, Past Master
bee Larry West, Past Master
Claremont ....._. ___No. 436-Phillip R. Williams, Senior Warden............ 61.46
James R. Smith, Junior Warden
George Dennis Lober, P.M. and Inspector.... 61.46

Name of Lodie

No. of Lodge

Repreoentatlve1

427
Mileage Allowed

Lancaster -···---···-No. 437....C. H. Redford, Master... _............................... 52.50
Otis C. Saylor, Junior Warden
James E. Bacon, P.M. and Inspector.·-·······- 52.50
A. C. Cobb, Past Master
William D. Knight, Past Master.·-·····-····-··· 52.50
L.A. Walktt, Past Master
Vernon D. Ward, Past Master
Tyrian ···-···---········No. 439••.• Fred Hubbard, Elected Representative.......... 10.50
Standard ---···----No. 440.-!,.yle Floyd Fowler, Master
Maurice Cherry, Senior Warden
Coronado ------No. 441_.Lawrence R. Hutson, Senior Warden............ 76.72
Edgar B. Beck, Junior Warden
Glen C. Holbert, Past Master...........-........... 73.08
Edgar Shaw, Past Master
Donald W. Stubbs, Past Master
Blackmer ···----··---No. H2_Kenneth B. Barnes, Master.............................. 73.08
John A. Wright, Senior Warden
Jesse L. Karr, Jr., Junior Warden
Oscar H. Nelson, P.M. and Inspector............ 73.08
Frank R. Porath, Past Master
Scholleld -···---·-··No. H3_James Tamotsu Kashiwada, Junior Warden.. 338.19
Charles August Battige, Past Master
Robert Chong Kong, Past Master
Carpinteria --··--No. 444.. _Ernest A. McCurry, Master·---····--·-·-··· 48.86
Ralph M. Brown, Senior Warden
Wilshire ----·····---No. 445 .... Georg_e V. H. Smith, Master.......................... 56.42
John B. Rogers, Jr.. Junior Warden
Frederick Edwin Clark, P.M. and Inspector.. 56.42
LeRoy Carman, Past Master
George X. Hickerson, Past Master
Herbert A. Huebner, Past Master-···-·--······ 56.42
La Puente -·····-····-···No• 446.... Jack L. Patterson, Master.·---·-··-·-······· 59.22
ack C. Rector, Junior Wa·rden
Torrance --····-······-··---No. 447-CharlesR. Myers, Sr., Senior Warden.......... 59.22
Wayne S. Larson, Junior Warden
Leonard B. Babcock, Past Master
George C. Powell, Past Master
Mt. Diablo -·-·---No. 448._Eugene R. Perkins. Master................·-·-··-·· 4.34
Thomas L. Dyer, Senior Warden
James L. Carrier, Junior Warden
Verne W. Hendrix, Assistant
Grand Secretary ·····-··-··-······--··················· 3.50
Royle E. King, Past Master
Gordon W. Lindsey, Past Master
Park --··-----No. 449-Joseph J. Sanford, Master
William G. Menary, Jr.. Junior Warden
Reginald Duden, Past Master
Glenn W. Maynard, Past Master
Orville D. Parker, Past Master
Sidney L. Solomon, Past Master
Van Nuys ····-··---No. 450_ William W. Dickson, Tr.. Master.................. 54.32
Ray D. Martin, Senior Warden
William H. Pettes, Junior Warden
Harold S. Morrison, P.M and Inspector...- 54.32
Montebello ····-·-·-··-···No. 451..•. Bert F. Kearney, Master...............·-·········-·-·· 57.40
Arthur E. Earnshaw, Senior Warden
Leonard E. Jones, Junior Warden
Frank L. Sutliff, P.M. and Inspector.......-..... 56.42

428

Name of Lodge
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Rcpraentativ..

429

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage Allowed

San Pasqual ·····-··--···-No. 452_.. Virgal Z. Vaughan, Muter..... - ..................... 57.54
Robert N. Grossman, Senior Warden
Georg~ T. Wainscott, Junior Warden
Ross H. Rittgers, Past Master
Donald G. White, Past Master
Crocker ·······················-···No. 454.... Stanley J. Higgins, MaWster d
Robert J. Keith, Senior ar en
Harold E. Heisch, Junior Warden
Russell M. Bass, Past Master
Charles A. Davis, Past Master
Leslie 0. Ginsberg, Past Master
M. Jay Jensen, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
Walter C. Schenk, Past Masteor
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West ·············-···No. 455.... Homer Dale Day, Masnbter
S
W d
William Melvin Luste erger, enior ar en
Adolph Philip Bilay, Past Master
Earle Bancroft Brehaut, Past Master
George R. Brockman, Pa.st Master
Herbert Henry Eling,_Past Master
Norman Reed, Past Master
William A. Willson, Senior Warden............ 57.54
Ramona ······· ··-·---~"'--···N o ' 457····Arvid
H. Christian, Junior Warden
Arnold G. Robertson, P.M. and Inspector.... 57.54
Jack E. Anderson, Past Master
Henry S. Orme ..............No. 458-Clarence A. Wetzel, Master.......................... 56.42
Norman C. McMahan, Senior Warden
Alfred J. Navin, P.M. and Inspector.............. 56.42
C. Edward Beaumont, Past Master
Paul Nardella, Past Master
William B. Mott, Past Master
Henry J. Stahl, Past Master
Fred C. Warner, Past Master
Riverbank ··············-··-····No. 459-Leo R Silva, Senior Warden........................ 12.74
D. Clapp, Junior Warden.................... 8.68
M oun t 0 so -·-················No· -.A60·-tmes
ynn O. Stark, Past Master
Ray P. Knox, Master
A rgonaut ················-···-· No• 461 ··-Hoadley
Johnson, Jr., Senior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, P.M. and Inspector
Walter S. Flowers, Past Master
Hoadley Johnson, Sr., Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Paul Revere ···············-··No. 462 .... Morton J. Meyer, Mast7r
Gustave L. Zeidler, Seruor Warden
Arthur J. K:ahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Allan E. Aitel, Past Master
Lowell H. Beckendorf, Past Master
Howard D. King, Past Master
Perry A. Lawson, Past Master
Henry Schindel, Past Master
Jacob Warshaw, Past Master
Thomas W. S. Wu, Past Master
Cleo W. Frandsen, Master.............................. 9.66
Morgan Hl.11 ···-···-········No· 463····H.
G. Weichert, Junior Warden
No 45'.... Fred E. Faber, Master
Alta V lsta ···············-····· •
Samuel G. Clark, P.M. and Inspector
William Butcher, Past Master
Dwight N. Deane, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master

No. of Lodge

Rcpreoentativ..

Mileage Allowed

Arthur E. Hewit, Past Master
Fiori Mosca, Past Master
John R. Titsworth, Past Master
Center ·············--···~·-···-No• 465 .. _Murl Woodrow Lawrence, Senior Warden..
Eugene Dan Lung, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, P.M. and Inspector..........
Lawrence Bertram Anderson, Past Master
Libertas ........................--"No. 466....Reed D. Mercer, Maater..................................
Ray M. Foust, Senior Warden
William F. Bartellltein, Junior Warden

25.62
25.62
40.46

Rac~:i<ld ~~~o~:-~~~~~~~~---····················· 40.46

Robert J. M.Y~rs, Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes, Past Mastel'
Culver City ........ _ .. _..__No. 467 __ E. Dale Peck, Master...........-......................... 56.42
Raymond P. Stone, Senior Warden
Philip E. Watson, Junior Warden
Rockridge ........................ No. 468 .... Robert G. Colgett, Senior Warden
Charles R. Goff, Junior Warden
Harry M. Frostholm, Past Master
Yorba Linda ............- ... No. 469..-Arthur L. Hansford, Master..·-······················· 60.62
John H. Newton, Senior Warden
Lincoln ······-··············-....No. 470.... lack Ervin, Master
Vergil Knight, Senior Warden
Carlton H. Rothblum, P.M. and Inspector
Alexander McBirney, Past Master
George S. McCullough, Past Master
Leonard T. Pockman, Past Master
Melville P. Prince, Past Master
Delta - ·-····-·-··No. 471....Kenneth H. Whalen, Master.......................... 10.92
Kenneth B. Hannan, Junior Warden
Taubner G. Hamma, P.M. and Inspector...... 10.92
George W. Grafils. Past Master
Maui ·-··-·-·········-··--No. 472....Jack Edward Vockrodt, Senior Warden...-. 372.19
William E. Foster, P.M. and Inspector....... _. 372.19
Blythe ·······-······-·-··......No. 473.. _Pred 0. Mauel, Senior Warden...................... 88.06
J.M. Mcintyre, Past Master
America ----·-·······-'-·-No· 475-Arthur B. Middlemas, Master........................ 56.42
Bill W. Lillich, Senior Warden
L. R. Gallaway, Past Master
Coachella ···-······-·-······-No· 476.... Rex T. Johnson, Master.................................. 74.90
Robert K. Hager, Senior Warden
Niles D. Howell, Juniol' Warden
Rewell E. Carlton, P.M. and lnspectoc.......... 75.32
Charles M. Thomas, Past Master
Friend P. Wilson, Past Master
Temblor ···-···--····-··--·No. 477..-Joe n. Bozarth, Senior Warden...................... 40.88
Thou.sand Oaks ···-·-No.. 478.._Vernon R. La Groue, Sr., Master
Earl M. Rapken, Senior Warden
John C. Pelkey, Junior Warden
l<enneth R. Evans, Past M:aster
Harry C. Peteorson, Past Master
Golden Rule - - -......No. 479-Elmer C. Wright, Jr., Master.......-................. 7.00
Stanley C. Drysdale, Senior W aroen
Rowan W. Scott, Junior Warden
Edwin C. Van De Mark, Past Master
fellowship ·--····----No. 480_F.red L. Campbell, Jc., Master
Clyde R. Harris, Senior Warden
Reginald B. Wilson, Past Master

430

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Rtpruentativu

Mil••c• All......s

No 481.... Gustave W . Rodeen, Master
Mt Dav.1dson
Thomas G. Alla n, Senior Warden
···············-· ·
·
Paul V. Grace, Junior Warden
Arthur M. W arren, Grand Treasurer
Daniel D. Rowlands. P.M. and Inspector
W. H. Daily, Past Master
L. A. Loustau, Past Master
C. P. McCarthy. Past Master
Alfred H. Nicoll, Past Master ........................ i .9()
G. A. Sohst, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith ----····--No. 482.... Raymond A. Preston, Master.......................... 56.42
Robert A. Henkcns, Senior Warden
No. i 83.... Evcrette B. Crosby, Senior Warden............. . 58.to
B 11
oscph A. H ochwartcr, Junior Warden
··········•····•··················
e
lames D. Kelso, P.M. and Inspector............. . 58.tO
H arold C. Comaford, Past Master
Fred F. Elliott, Past M aster
A. 0. Herndon, Past Master
Frank A. Lister, Past Master
N 484 .... Robcrt A. Manning, Master........................... . 56.42
Pile
Alb
Carl E. M iller, Senior Warden
crt · e ·····-············· o.
Emerson L. Ha rris, Past Master
Chowchilla ···-···········- No. 485.... Not Represented
Caledonia ·········-·····-·······No. i86.... Harold P. W ylie, Master ............................... . i0.46
William W . Shugart, P.M. and Inspec tor.___ i 0.46
Robert W. Beckwith, Past Master
C . Scoggins, Master... ...................... . 4.34
Vallelo ............................No• 487.... Elwood
Loren J. McKasson, Senior Warden
John H. Allison, Junior W arden
Ernest G. Branstetter, Past Master
Raymond S. de! Mas, Past Master
Frederic B. Ha ll. Past Master
C . Bert Menge. Past Master
Patterson ·-··-··········----No. i88.... Robert Allen Arambel. Master........................ 12.74
East Bay ··-·-·-····-·······No. 489.... John J. AhMbott.KMastSer . W den
ar
C. Robert ac ay, emor
Harry E. Betts, Junior Warden
Allerton B. Ebert, Past Master
Sergei N . Ivanoff, Past Master
Joh~ A. Sobey, Past Master
Carl M. T homsen, Past Master
Corcoran ·------·--···-No. 490.... Robert E. Da vis. Elected Representative ..... . 32.76
Woodstock -·-··-···-···-·--No. 49 1.... GeorgeRAJurg enst, MSast~r Warden
V erne . an Nat a , emor
George S. Sleeman, Junior Warden
Carl R. Ramsey, P.M. and Inspector
Alvin A. H orwege, Past M aster
R. Emmett O 'Brien, Past Master
M. Allen Powers. Past Master
Worden A . Stinson, Past Master
No i92.... George E. Harrison, Master............................ 56.42
Garv ."~
Harry M. Koerner, Senior Warden
•
~ -··---·--·-·----·Harold M . Hand. Past Master
David C. Lee, Past Master
S. Borjes, Junior Warden...................... 29.96
493 Louis
--· Fr('d C. H ess. Past Master
Atascad ero ·----········-···-N o.
Acorn ..............................

Master
Stephenson,
N 0 • 49-i .... Richard
Senior Warden
Frederick,
Edgar A.LeRoy
Alvin W . Pressler, Junior Warden
E. Lloyd Hanson, P .M. and Inspector

Name of Lodce

No. of Lodge

R.cpruentative1

431
Milu,e Allowed

Ralph Adams, P ast Master
Earl Pa tterson, Jr., Pa st Master
George P. Silliman, Past Master
Lebanon .....................- ...No. 495 .... Leo D'Atri, Master
Harry A. Rief, Senior W arden
Louis Rubin, Jun ior Warden
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Fremont ..........................No. 497._Harold Eugene D arling, Master
Leon V . Rose, Senior Warden
Robert E . Crawford, Junior W arden
T homas M. Livingstone, Past M aster
C yrus L. Rossi, Past Master
Stockton -·-··-········-·----·---No. -t98....Jay D. Parks, Master...........................- ......... 10.92
Harold B. Weed, Past Master
Capital City •...................No. 499 .... Robert C. Woodall, Master............................ 12.0i
Raymond A. Young. Senior Warden
Lew is 0. Goodnow, Junior Warden
Raymond A. Ebbage, Past M aster
Roosevelt ··--···-----·-······-No. 500.... Harold M. Ballengee, Master
Edward Martinelli, Senior W arden
Alfred J. M usetti. Junior Warden
Ernest J. Armando, Past Master
Westwood -------··-··--·---No. 501....Ralph E. W arwick, Junior Warden.............. 3i.86
H aven R. Martin, Past Master
Harbor ········--······---····---No. 502.... Lloyd E. McFall, Master
Fred H. Mathews, Senior W arden
Mahon Payne, Junior Warden
Carl R. Alexander, P ast Master
Lawrence Brewster, Past Master
Allison H iggins. Past Master
Charles McCray, Past Master
Herron Scragg, Past Master
H. Et1gcn<' Stevens, Past Master
John Thurbon, Past Master
Point ................................ No. 503 .... Selbie C. Wright. Master
Oren W . Bi gham, Senior Warden
William F. Abraham, Junior Warden
V icto r Prenk, P.M. and Inspec tor
Jo hn L. Caron, Past Master
David G. Collins, P ast Master
Max E. Morris, Past M aster
Seaside ··-··--··--·-·-····---No. 50L .. Rodney H. Davis, Senior Warden................ 60.06
Robert E. Center, Junior Warden
M"lvin R. Berbower, P .M. and Inspector.... 60.06
William T. Corbusier, Past Master
Arthur R. Moberg, Past Master
Sliver Corel ··-···--···--·····No. 505.... E. William Haskell. Master............................ 60.90
Arthur H . Reed, Senior Vvarden
Arthur B. Rockhold, Junior Warden
Thoma s ·w. Thurman, Past Master................ 60.90
Mount Olive ............._.No. 506.... Robert W. Oblath, Master..............- ....·-······· 56.42
Harold L. Palmer, Senior Warden
Arthur A . Neuser, Junior Warden
El Segundo ...................... No. 507.-Morris E. Marshall. Master·-----·-·--···-·······-· 57.26
O scar G. Allen, Senior Warden
James E. Lloyd, Junior Warden
Robert J. Lehman, Past Master
Joppa ·····-···-··----.. ·--····-··No. 508.... Gordon Vaughan, Master.............................. 29.iO

432

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Rr pre~i:: nta t i vea

Mileage Allo..-ed

Benjamin Franklin ......... No. 5t'9 .... Hcrbert B. Montgomery, Senior Warden.... 56.42
Robert A. Cross, junior Warden
J. Fronk Moore, Past Master
Robert Wilkins, Past Master
6.30
Cupertino ........................ No. 510....James Troy Rampy. Master...........................
Arthur Garbini, Senior \Varden
Howard C. H ubbard. Jr.. Past Master
6.30
Sunnyvale .................•....No. 511.. .. Donald R. King, Master................... ...............
Richard Elias, Senior Warden
Hermann L. Horn, Past Master
Walter W . Schmitz, Past Master
56.42
Palms ___ ................... - ..... No. 512.... Robert L. Walker, Master..................
John A. McCuish, Junior Warden
55.14
Cahuenga ........................No. 513 .... Albert S. Davidson, Master.............
C. Ra y Hunt, Senior Warden
Harold D. Winn. Junior W arden
Jo hn W . Baker, Past Master
G eorge K. Calvin, Past Master
Earl L. Kingman, Past Master
Marvin L. Lynch. Past M aster
Voyle H. Sipes, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney, Past Master
Argonne ..........................No. 514 .... Cyril L. Thornton, Master
Theodore J. McCann, Junior Warden
Edwin A . Gumbinger, Past Master
Clyde D. Lightbody, Past Master
David Mann Taylor, Past Master
John H . Turner. P ast Master
Frederick E . W ilhelm, Past Master
Vermont Square ............No. 515 ....Kai C. Anderson, Master.............. ....... .......... 58.10
John C. Cook. Senior Warden
John D. Byork. Past Master
Frank M. O'Brien, Past Master
Taft ·····--·--······-··--·---- ·-No. 516 ....William L. McEwen, Master........................ . 11.58
John C. Mulford. Senior Warden
Mount Vernon ................No. 517 .... Howard J. McCracken, Senior Warden
Theodore L. Gates, Junior Warden
Edward G. Couture, Past Master
Alfred Strettler, P ast Master
La Jolla ............................No. 518.... Edward Eugene Rees. Senior W arden ........ 72.38
Willard Vincent Markey, Junior Warden
Robert B. Watts, Grand Orator...................... 72.38
Donald Cameron McDonald, Past Master
Euclid .............................. No. 519 .... Lynn W . Gardener, Senior Warden............ .. 56.12
William G. Pickrel, Junior Warden
Percy M . Bezanson. Past Master
Roy 0. Bowditch. Past M aster
Ionic ............ ....................No. 520.... Bcrnard H. Raab, Master................................ 56.42
Alan Ratner, Senior Warden
Cla ude Leni:. Past Master
Piedmont ···-···················No. 52L.. W a lter F . Schag, Past Master
Richard H . Chamberlain, Past Master
Gail H. David, Past Master
Sunrise ............................No. 522.... William Jolley. Master............. ..................... 57.54
E. M. Foster, Senior Warden
Roy 0 . Weymouth, Past Master
Bellftower ........................No. 523.... Dt'linas R. Howe ll, Master.............................. 58.80
Daniel I. Stutsman, Senior Warden
Leon E. Denton, Past Master
Catalina Island ..............No. 524 .... Glynn H. Covington, Master.......................... 64.68
Edward T. Rinehart, Senior Warden

N•m• of Lodge

N o . of Lodge

433

Reprc&tnf J.ti ve-~

Gt'orge Washington ......No. 525 ... Robert E . Oyloe, Senior Warden
Carl W . W iller. Junior W arden
Adolph H . Franzen, P.M. and Inspector
Fra nk E. Buehn, Pa st Master
C hester M . Smith, Past Master
Bay City ........................No. 526 .... Bcrnard F. Cohn. Past Master
Thomas A . Dethlefsen, Past Master
Covenant ........................ No. 527 .... /\ndrew J. Metca lfe. Mast<>r........................... .
\Villiam J. Carne y. Senior Warden
EvN ett S. T odd. P ast Master
Beverly Hills .................. No. 528.... Ralph A. Wark, Jr., Master... ...................... ..
Philip Raiguel, Senior Warden
Theodore Hohl, Junior W a rden
Fra nk H arwell, Jr., Past G rand Master....... .
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Jac k B. Crawford, Past Master
F rt'derick A. Fox, P ast Master
Ernest N. Judson, Past Master
Loyalty ............................No. 529 .... Bcnjamin Susman, Master.......... ...................
Edward BILlke, Senior W a rden
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr .. Past Grand Master ....
Arthur Linsk. P .M. and Inspector................. .
Lloyd P. Bass, Past M aster
Joseph A. V isger, Past Mastl'r
Sun Garden ....................No. 530.... Leland T. Petersen, Senior Warden..............
Ht'rbert R. Hargrave, P.M. and Inspector
Leonard H. Moller, Past Master
Leroy S tubblefield, Past M<istt'r
Alexandria ......................No. 531.... Pete A. Rich, Master
Smyrna ······················-···N o. 532.... Harlan H . Hoghren, Senior Warden ........ ...
Azure ..............................No. 533.... Warren A. Rake, Senior Warden............... ..
Thomas F. Larsen, Junior Warden
L. S. Conover, Past Master
Forest Hill ...........<.••••••••• No. 534.... Edward S. Ma jewski, Master
Albert J. Koshaba, Senior Warden
Julian H. L. W olfsohn, Junior V·/arden
James N. Rae, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ...... No. 535 .... William T . Sa unders, Master ......... ........ .
Howard F. Bucklin. Senior Warden
Kern H. Copeland, Jr .. Junior Warden
W endell L. Goodwin, P.M . and Inspector....
Edward J. Blickfeldt. Past Master
Emerson Hill. Past Master
Roland W . Snow, Past Master
Seal Rock ........................ No. 536.... Charles Linehan, Master
E rnest Haines, Senior Warden
Edwin W. Bode. Sr., Past Master
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
Utopia .............................. No. 537 .... F. Arleigh Frazier, Senior Warden ................
Ascot --··························-·No. 538.... vVilliam B. Blankenship, Senior W arden......
Norman T . Larsen, Junior Warden
Belvedere ........................No. 539.... Robert L. Disheroon, Master ..........................
Richard G . Stevens, Senior Warden
Queen Beach .................. No. 540 .... Earl A. Swenson, Master............................... .
James W. Duncan, Senior Warden
Henry Morse Stephens ..No. 541 .... Charles W . Barnett, Master
Robert H . Taylor, S enior Warden
Richard M. Schulze. Junior Warden
Carlisll' D. Nielsen, P ast Master
John Richmond. Past Master
Edwin R. Rowe, Past Master

56.42
56.i2

56.42

56.42
56.42

56.42
25.62

25.62

13.16
60.20

56.42
58.52

56.42
58.38
57.51

60.06

434
Name of Lod~

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
No. of Lodi•

Repreaentative•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
Milea1e All'*td

North Hollywood ·····-···No. 542 .... H. Roger Hotchkin, Master.................. .. .. ......
Franklin E. Archer, Senior Warden
Reginald Bunce, P.M. and Inspector.............
J. Glen Gladson. Past Master
W. James Mann, Past Master
Clarence A. Ross. Past Master
Signal ···················---·······No. 543....Glen A. Houpt, Master............................ ........
Uriel E. Gray, Senior Warden
Glendale ··-·-····················No. 5H .... Kenneth L. Truex, Master..............................
Earl A. Lemmon, Senior \Varden
John D. Johnson. Jun ior Warden
Paul R. Queen, Past Master
Orren L. Walker. Past Master
Jonathan ..........................No. 545....Thomas E. O 'Connor. Master
Antone Botailyo, Senior Warden
T. S. Nissen, Past Master
San Gabriel ..........- .... _.No. 546 .... L. E. Houghton, Master..................................
Harmon A. Finke, Senior Warden
Wilber E. Smith, Junior Warden
Arcadle ....................____No. 547....Gordon A . Morse, Master..............................
William N. Bowle, Jr. Senior Ward en ..........
Benjamin F. Nash, P.M. and Inspector........
Edward C. Murfett, Past Master
Triangle .......................... No. 548 ....Vincent D . Allaniello, Master......... ...............
Calvin H . Leonard, Senior Warden
Murray E. Cooke, Junior Warden
Charles T. Murdock, Past Master
Ju.rtice ····--········--···········No. 549....John R. Peebles, Master
Glenn C. Coulson. Senior W arden
Rex L. Wimer, Junior Warden
Paul A. Hackler. P.M. and Inspector
William W. Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
Rush Manbert, Past Master
Percy V. Maury, Past Master
Frank Reinke, Past Master
Seaport ····--·--··-- ---·No. 550.... Joseph M. Freeland. Master
Edw in A. Nylund, Senior Warden
Bertram C. von Konsky, Grand Pursuivant
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
Floyd B. Scullin, Past Master
Adolph C. von Konsky, Past Master
John Wullschleger, Past Master
Lakeshore --·····--··- No. 551.. .. Anthony R. Manov, Master
Robert H. Clewett, Senior W arden
Paul S. Boren. Past Master
Lee B. Ferguson. Past Master
Edward L. Land, Past Master
Semper Virens ................ No. 552 .... Gerald E. Carrico, Senior Warden................
John F. Hart. Junior Warden
Alexander Duncan, P.M. and lnspectOI'........
Educator ..........................No. 554 .._ Frank R. Mettam, Master
Ted K. Brouwer, Senior Warden
Omer L. Cotterell, Jr., Junior Warden
Emmett L. Bundy, Past Master
Francis De Long, P ast Master
Ralph M. Small, Past Master

54.6()

54.0i

60.06
56.()()

57.5-t
58.38
58.38
58.38
56.84

39.76
39.76

White Pine --···········- No. 555.... HR~~~e~~~~a~~~e_:.:.:~~'.~~---··················-····· 40.46

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

435

Re:p rtBentativet

Fairfax ......................- ....No. 556.... Frank B. Peebles. Master
Alvin Artellan. Senior Warden
Curt F. Waldhaus, Junior Warden
Robert A. Smallman, Past Master
Hermosa ..........................No. 557.... 0lan F . Lowe, Senior Warden..........
57.82
Paul Thompson, Pas t Master
Point Firmin ..................No. 558.... Earl J. Hull, Mast<>r............................. ............. 60.20
John D . Holland. Senior Warden. ................ 60.20
Craftsmen ........................No. 559.... P. H . Bozaj ian, Master.................................. .. 56:42
V. S. D ean , Senior Warden
Plymouth ........................No. 560.... Morris Braaten, Master
Gus Bogel, Senior W ardcn
Raymond James, Junior Warden
Edward I-f. Siems, Grand Secretary
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego ............ No. 561 .... R. E. Hog an, Senior Warden...... .................. 73.08
Ric.hard Carr, Junior W arden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Edward H. Wrede, Jr.. Past Master
Pyramid ·················-·······No. 562.... John R. Bleakley, Master
W illison H. Lingafelter, Senior \.Varden
Robert W. Newell. Junior Warden
Chester H. Newell. Past Master
South Park ......................No. 563.... Joel M . Foster, Master..._................... .......... .. 56.12
Kenneth W . W illiams, Senior Warden
William Bottorff, P.M. and Inspector .....
58.38
Esau T. Agajanian, Past Master
Lawrence B. Black, Past Master
William G. Foley, Past Master
Max F. Vail. Past Master
Poothill ............................ No. 564 .... Merle E . Rossmann, Master
Herbert E. Ferg uson, Senior \Varden
John C. Sterne, Junior Warden
tawrence J. Carnozzi, Past Master
Lionel C. Raymond, Past Master
West Adams ..................No. 565 .... Don E. \Vorsham, Senior Warden.
56.12
Benjami n F . Cha plin. Junior Warden
James A. Garfield ..........No. 566.... H. Austin Mahr, Senior Warden............. ..... 56.12
Francis H. Lore, Junior Warden
Field Thompson, P.M. and Inspector............ 57.82
Clay Robbins, Past Master
Searchlight ···---·········-·· ·No. 567.... Harry R. Marland, Master..................
60.06
Murray T. Courson, Senior Warden
Park Boulevard ·····-··-···No. 568.... William H. Van Cleave, Master
Melvin C. Moran , Senior Warden
Clifford P. T roclsen, Junior Warden
Don E . Berry, Past Master...................... ...... 13.16
Lloyd M . Bradford, Past M aster
James E. Hammond, Past Master
H arry D. Hosac, Past Master
Will is V . McBeth, Past Master
Chateau Thierry ............No. 569....lack Silvan, Master
Ralph A. Williams. Sen ior Warden
Joseph Culp, Junio r W a rden
Eugine Barnard, Past Master
Neal W. Hayden. Past Master
Harold D. \Vebcr, Past Master
Military Service ............No. 570.... Louis P . Golfos, M aster
Natha n Kurtz, Senior Warden
H erma n G . Liebenthal. Jr.. Junior Warden
Alvin C.Gundrcd, Past Master

436
N•m< of Lod;e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod ~•

Rep rooc ntativu

Otto F . H ansen. Past Master
John Kinces, Past Master
Lo uis H . Strohecker. P<1st Master
N 571.. .. Lotin A. \ V hitc, M ~ stt• r
Francis K. Sh attuc k ........ 0 ·
Leo F. Chesser. Senior Wa rden
Robert H . T yler. Junior W arden
Elbert W. Davis, Past G rand Lecturer
H erbert H . H obson. P.M. and Inspecto r
E.W. Batman, Past Master
56.12
N 572 .... &!ward J. H arrison . Master . ......... ······ ·
James Madison................ o.
Ma rtin S. Corr, Senior W a rden
58.J8
Ray Smith, P.M. and Inspector ..... .
Earl E. Shook. Past Master
No 573 Don McFetridgc, Master
Hillcrest ·························· ·
···· Howard J. W all. Senior Warden
Edward A. B yrne . Junior \ Vard en
.. ... 73.08
S . W. H ackett ................No. 57i .... StephcnSAR. ob
Dodd. MaSstnc·ro..r.\V~~~i~n
O liver .
ertson. e 1
Merle G . Krebs. Junior Warden
Norman E. Hale, Past M aster
W illiam 0 . Kin\'.] . Past Master
Leonel C. Panosh, Past Master
N 575 .... John .W. Southern. Senior \ Varden... ······· 40.18
Port Crook ...................... 0 •
Reginald Reynolds. P.M . and lnspl'Ctor ... ... 40.18
El Cajon Valley ............No. 576 .... Herbert W . Hall. Master. ............................... 74.48
LeRoy Chambers. Senior Warden
No 577 James L. C lark. Jr. , M aster.. ....................... ··· 56.<f2
d
Sunnysl e ························ .
.... John S. Walters, Senior W a rden
Louis H . Mahler. P.M. a nd Inspector . ...... 56.42
Wm. B. Harmon. Past Master
John A . Low. Past Master
56-42
N 578....Ra lph A. Larson. Master .................. .
Progressive ·····-····.. ······· 0 •
Louie V . F arlow. Senior Warden
Paul Bartho lomew. Junior W arden
James A. Carrier. Past Master
J. Howard Edwards, Past Master
Arthur V . Lundstrom, Past Master
Roy 0. Miller, Past M aste-r
George M . Sturgis, Past Master
d
N 0 579.... Richard W . R ylander, Senior Wardfn........ 12.46
Warren G . Har Ing ........ ·
Louis Chapo, Junio r W arden
Henry R. Brown, Past Master
.
73 78
Santa Marla ·············-·····No. 580 .... HomerYEC
. Ml arcy, PMatstM
er ....t...r............. ..........
Zenas . o ema n, as
as e
·
No 581 Richard C . Williams. Master......... ··········· i0.46
S ecunty ·········-··-········· ·
····Ra y Wayne Shearer. Junior Warden
Samuel R. Bauman, Past Master
Leonard T . Jenk ins, Past Master
Ora n W . Pahner. Past Master
Kenneth Payne Sward. Past Master
63.28
Rialto ..............................N 0 • 582 .... Daniel F. Swartz. Senior Warden.................. 38
6't
N 0 583....Hardy H . Hair, Master..................................
·
Wes,;;o ···························· ·
Hoyett L. Smo thers, Senior Warden
Donald C. Zachary . Junior \Varden
6't
Fred Chas. P ritschke. P .M. and In spector.... 38.
Harry H . Pollock. Past Master
..z
.
N 58i....Geo rge C. Stackhouse. Senior W arden........ 56·
2
56
Harding ··········-·······.. ···-N~· 585 Lowell D . Shields. Master........
·4
Manche9ter ··················•• ·
····Gus Searcy. Senior Warden
Lloyd M . Coul ter. Junior W arden
Floyd E . Fouler. Past Master

437

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA
Naroe ol Lod~e

No. of Lod ~c

R cflresentat ivrs

Molu~c

Allow«I

Garden Grove ................No. 586.... Ronald T adman, Mast<'r . ........ .. ............ 60.90
James E. Cruthirds. Senior W arden
Curt N. Bosworth. Junior \ V;:irdcn
Wood row \V. Reyburn . Past M astn
Valley Forge .................. No. 587.... Ernest Gardner. Master..
56.42
Fun(l C how C han. Senior Warden
Rob<" rt G. Hocenedcl. Junior \Varden
Leslie S. Wayma n. P .M. and I nspector ....... 56.42
Charles S. Barrctt. Past Master
Harold L. Gl'rman. Pa:;t Master
Clifton C. G irard. Past Master
James M . Maddock. Past Master
Cha rles E. Senft, Past Master
El Sereno ........................ No. 588 .... Jack E. Roberts, Ma ster...............
56.42
W illiam R. Smith. Senior W arden
Carl A. Halter. P.M . and Inspector.
53.90
W illiam 0 . Pheg ley. Past Master
Kauai .............................. No. 589....Copeland G. Davis, Master............................ 372.19
Compass ..........................No. 590.... Jarnes T. White, Senior Warden.................... 61.0i
Philli p S. Hunt, P .M. and Inspector.............. 61.0i
Roy Bowman. Past Master
Escalon ................. _ ........ No. 591 .... Warren Fowler, M<1ster.................. ...
11 .90
C arroll S. Prouty, Senior W arden
Tujunga ..........................No. 592.... A. Keith Schumacher. Senior Warden.......... 54.46
P .A. W erbe, Junior Warden
All States ........................No. 593 .... Henry Alkn Field, Master................. ...
60.06
Georg e B. Willoughby, Senio r W arden
Lawrence J. McEldowncy, Past Master
Kirby Chesterfield Serles, Past Master
Service ............................ No. 59L .. Britton Miller, Master..................... ..............
60.0G
J. W esley Gebb, Jr .. Senior Warden
Jaml'S B. Graham, Junior \~ard en
Charles J. W entz, P .M . and Inspector...
60.06
Ralph F . Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander G raham Bell..No. 595.... John V . De'Oro, Mastl'r...............
56.42
Lyle C. Ferrier, Junio r Warden
Dean Soles, Past Master
Guardian .......................... No. 596.... Harry B. Kearns. Master.....................
57.40
Raymo nd 0 . Smith, Senior Warden
Daniel B. Erwin, Past Master
Thomas H. Mowery. Past Master
Pearl Harbor .................. No. 598 .... Louie C. Ondo, Master....................
338.19
H omer A. Cundiff, Senior W arden
Carmelita ........................No. 599 .... Kcnneth P . W aterho use, Master.....
57.54
Orrin C. \ Vidman, Senior W ardl'n
C. Cecil Davis, Past Master
Kermit A. Jacobson, Past Master
Lynwood ................. - .....No. 600.... Robcrt C. Eulberg. M aster..............
57.40
Royal D. Barnes, S enior Warden
George L. Coover, Junior W arden
Milton E . Ammarui, Past Master
Ritlph A . Herbold, Past Master
John D. Keen, P.ist Master
John L. Libsack, Past Master
Grizzly ·-·················-·····N o. 601. ... Louis C . De Armond, Elected Repre.st>ntative 35.00
Melroae -···-·-·····--·····N o. 602 .... George H . Himes, Master............... ............ 55.44
AJ frcd Scherz, Junior Warden
Tho ma s J. McKimson. P.M. and Inspector.... 56.42
Edwin C. T. Church, Past M aster
C. Earle O utram, Past Master

438
N•me of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repre.w:ntativu

Mile•1e Allo"'"

Dimond ·····-·····-·············No. 603.... W arren J. Blomseth, Master
Virgil Wayne Wiswell, Jr., Senior Warden
George W. Anderson, Junior Warden
Larry C. Baskcr, P.M. and Inspector
Willard W. Wooden, Past Master
Jubilee ---···-·-···· ···-···No. 60i .... LeRoy G. Connelly, Senior Warden...... ...... 60.90
Glassell Park -·-·-····-·····N o. 605 ....Normal E. Reed, Senior Warden.................. 56.i2
Sojourner -···-···-·· ·-No. 607-.. Ha rold O'Hara, Senior Warden.................... 58.!)i
Jack Limb, Junior Warden
James E. Wellet, Master................................ 57.i()
....
608
Granada ············-············No.
M. D. Caliva, Senior Warden
Frank C. Tucker, Junior W arden
Donald G. Campbell, Grand Lecturer............ 57.82
Gus A. Hart, Past Master
.... 12.0i
Provident ····--···············No. 609.... Herman L. Pede, Master..............................
William Leslie Maxwell. Senior Warden
George H. Eastman, Junior Warden
Leslie E. Wood. Past Grand Master.............. 12.0i
Ned E. Urben, Past Master
Elmhurst -····--··-·········No. 610.... Reynolds D. Carpenter, Master
Walter W. Taylor, Junior Warden
C arl E. Boorman, Past Master
John T. Young, Past Master
Canoga ·-··············-·········No. 61 L .Neil R. Quick, Master........ ................. .......... 55.02
Gilbert N. Harris, Senior Warden
John P. Kearbey, Junior Warden
C. J. Davis, Past Master
Charles 0. Fling, Past Master
William P. Forbes, Jr., Past Master
Temple Oty ·----·-···-·N o. 612.... David B. Mason, Sr.. Master......... ................. 58.38
Dean D. Ritchards, Senior Warden
Charles W. Doty, Junior Warden
Mark E. Schrock, P.M. and Ins;>ector.......... 58.38
Alvin P. Baker, Past Master
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
Merle F. Logue, Past Master
Oscar F. Watson, Past Master
Three Pillars ..................No. 613.-Melvi n A. Buth, Master.................................. 12.0i
Paul A. Downing, Senior Warden
Herbert S. Garfield, Junior Warden
Sam Lovell, P.M. and Inspector...................... 12.0i
Frank P. Lemen, P.M. and Inspector............ 12.0i
George F. Packard, Past Master
Larchmont -----········-· ··No. 614.... Dwight W. Warren, Jr., Master.................. 56.42
Clarence F. Cooper, Senior Warden
Robert J. Miller, Junior Warden
Jcsse R. Kellems, Grand Chaplain.................. 56.42
Frederick A. Chworowsky, Past Master
Newcomb Condee, Past Master...................... 56.42
Herbert H. Cooper, Past Master.................... 56.42
Hemet .......................•......No. 615.... ftl~h!rJk~i11~~~Se~:;:;;;d;~··· ····---······· 68.60
Hubert J. Raymond, P.M. and Inspector...... 68.60
Wilbur Raymond, Past Master
Kenneth B. Conklin, Master.......................... 60.34
....
616
No.
R. E. Dolley -·-·····-····-James P. Stucker, Senior Wardea
Marshall G. LaRue, Junior Warden
Frank 0. Brostrom, Past Master

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lodge

Reprtaentatives

439
Mile•ge Allo..;cd

Big Bear ············-···-·· ··-·No. 617.... LeH. OrvEalBWharr cnS, Master.............................. 68.60
ster . ot e11, enior Warden
E arl Moore Vigus, P.M. and Inspector.......... 68.60
Frederick A. Butts , Past Master
A. E . Carroll, Past Master
56.12
Master
Southland ······-··-··-··-No. 618.._Adrian H. Chamness
Klaus W. Greger, Se~ior Wa;d~~------- ...........
Npeptu~-· -··---..- ..No. 619.... William Paul Kachmarik, Master.................. 60.06
a -········-···- -No. 620.-Robert H. Harwood, Senior W ardeo............ 73.08
oint
Lloyd E. Von Tungeln, Junior Warden
Harold S. F isher, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
56.42
The Gardens ········--····N o. 621.... Edwin M. Lauricella Master
Edwa rd F. Skinner, J;., Senior W~;d~~----·· ·-Ronald B. Munro, Junior Warden
Harry Kaprielian, Past Master
Floyd S. Vandegrift, P ast Master
Atwater ..........................No. 622 .... Frcd E. Nollenberger, Senior Warden........ 56.12
Chesher A. Demby, Junior Warden
Charles F. Chapman, P.M. and Inspector...... 56.12
Fredrick H. Chapman.P ast M aster
Richard H . Dutwiler, Past Master
~~~i r-J~h:~~af,~~M~i~;---····------····---- ----- 56.12

Menorah ············--····-······No. 623.... ~~~1~~g~ts~e~io~W~~~-.;-··----·--·················--··
Fortitude ····-·················No. 624._ Thomas E. H. Love, Master
George H. Blackshere, Senior Warden
Leonard R. Bern, Junior Warden
Russell G. Worth, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................No. 625._Rober t F. Miller, Master
Stanley L. Erickson, Senii;;;· \v~ ·~d~~ ----- ........ .
•
William A. Sadler, Junior W arden
George C. Culuris, Past Master
Gordon S . Duncan, Past Master
\Va lter R. Gentry, Past Master
Chula Vista ·····--······--···N o. 626.... Adelbert L. Clark, Sr., Senior Warden..........
Lester E. Miller, Junior Warden
Lamanda Park ................No. 627....George G. T aylor, M aster............. .
Lyall R. Barnes, Senior Warden -···············
C. F. Snodgrass, Junior Warden
o rmaBn JL. Weiler, Master......................... ..
CNh
....
628
··-··No.
Truth - ····-·····--··-·
ris . acobs, Senior Warden
Jack E. Kelly, Jr., Junior Warden
Fairview --··--·····---·········No. 629 .... Charles W. Eldridge, Jr .. Master..................
Richard E . Butts, Senior \Varden
Donald G. Butts, Sr., Past Master
Russell C. Harris, Past Master
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
Harold C. Mudgett, Past Master
Ingleside .......................... No. 630.... Henry C . Clausen, Past Grand Master
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Joseph F. Garriott. Past M aster
Phil S. Tolman, Past Master
"Master..
Benevolence .................... No. 63 l .... Ra IPh A . .tUJderson
Edward R. Unger. s eruor w~;d~-~------····----····
Maurice W. Chapman, Jwiior Warden
John E. Schlener, Past Master

56.12

56.42

73.92
57.51
51.60
56.12

56 .... 2

... .

440
N ame o f Lodi;;:f:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
N o. of Lo dge

Represencat ivr_,

441

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFO RNIA
M iluge Alto....

Normal Heights ..............No. 632 .... Cody A. Firks, Senior Warden............
C. Leroy Owens, Junior Warden
·····-· 7308
·
Winfield S. McLees, P.M. and Inspector
7
Ben T. Salmon, Past Master
······ 3.08
51.
Poinsettia ........................ No, 633.... Thomas E. Jord an, Master....... . ... ............
21
James W oods. Senior \ Varden
Charles R. E skridge, Junio r W arden
f..-0uis C. Drapeau. Past Grand Master........ 50.51
Clifford C. Fouhse, Pa st Master
Arthur T. Mead, P ast M<:1stcr
Victorvllle ......................No. 631 .... William L Rogers, Master............................ 59 08
Charles Arthur Adams, Senior Warden
·
Russell F. Bragg, P.M. and Inspector............ 59.08
William T. Boehringer. Past M aster
Riverside -·-········ ............ No. 635 .... Jack C. Hutchinson, Senior Warden............ 64.i()
Richard F. Baker, Junior Warden
Gordon F. Black, Past M aster
Charles H. Grace, P ast Master
John Marshall ................ No. 636.... Clarcnce E. Redman , Master........................ 56.12
El to n J. Bonnev ille. Se n.ior W arden
Chester A. Ne lson. JLmior W ard en
Robert A. Crig ler. P.M . and Inspector. ......... 56.12
Palisades .......................... No. 637 . .. Joseph T. Cut hbertson, Master...................... 56.11
Anto n J. Lyg urn . Senior Warden
frank E. McGee, Junior Warden
john A. Jackson, Past Master
Demorest S. W emple, Past Master
Indian Rock .................... No. 638 ....William Hu gh Benson, M aster
Lowell Pc.rl Keith, Senior W ;u dcn
Frederick John Artus, Junior \ Varden
F rederick Tyler Her rick. Past Master
Edward Lamory Kearne y, Past Ma ~tl' r
Dav id R. Lane, Past Master
Composite ...................... No. 639 .... Ben J. Soskin, Master..................................... 56.12
Byron Smith, Senior Warden
Arthur Oritz, Past Master
Arthur Dvorin, Past Master
Verita~ ............................ No. 610.... Loong G . Fong. M aster
Arthur A. R oy, Senior W arden
James M. C oates, Jun.ior \!Varden
Irving J. Kohnke, Past M aster
\Vashington I. Kohnke, Past M oster
Oscar W. Norman, Past M as ter
William F. Poynter, Past M aster
James A. Foshay ............No. 611.. .. William J. Register, Jr., Senior Warden ...... 56.42
Robert E. Lee, Junior Warden
La Cumbre ......................No. 612.... Ch arles C. Bickmore. Senior Warden............ -47.60
Jess Sheegog, Past Master
Alta Loma ......................No. 6'13.... Douglas J. Blair, Master............................... -- 60.06
Nolan C. Kent, Senior Warden
Lomita ···········-··········----No. &t1..•. Edward Peterson. Senior Warden.. ..
59.78
Charles Brennt>mnn. Jun ior Warden
A. F. E. Irwin ................No. &t5.... Ephraim B. Snow. Senior Warden..
60.20
\Villiam J. Gallarcto. Junior Warden
Earl J. Walker. P.M. and Inspec tor. ......
60.20
\Varren W. Garrison. Jr .. Past Master
56.12
Metropolitan ..................No. &t6 .... Robert V. Fulkerson. Jr., Master..........
Billy A. Williams, Senior Warden

N•lll• of Lodge

No . of Lo dge

Re prcaent>t i\'t<

M ile•&< Allowed

Hawthome ......................No. 647.... Everett E . Cook, Senio r Warden..................
H arvey W . W right. Junior Warden
John A. O wen, P . M . and Inspector
James C . W hite, Past M aster
Lester G. W illi ams, Past Master
Oamascu& ........................ No. 618.... Floyd E . H ull, M aster......... ..
Dennis C. Lawson, Senior Ward en
Joseph L. O usley. P. M . and Inspector
Neil M. Ousley, Past Master
Herbert W . Robbi ns, Past Master
Florence .......................... No. 619 .... Kenneth W . Perkins, Master.......................
Arthur E. Claw ittC'!', Senior Warden
Norval Barrett, Junior W arden
La Brea ............................ No. 650 .... William Func.k. M aster...............
M elvin Bicknell. Senior W arden
John Henry. Junior W a rd en
George· W. Surch. Jr .. Past Master
Russell Lee , Past Master
W . G. Lee, Past Master
W . E. R obertson, Past Ma stE'r
John W. Swank, Past Mas ter
Charles Y ecsmen, Past Master
Menlo Park .................... No. 65 1....Donald D . Pitman, Master...................
Edward A . Grindle, Senior W arden
T ommie T . Hudson, Jun ior W arden
David W right, Grand T ilt?'r
Russell J. Braasch, Past Master
Royal Hodge. P ast Master
Albe.rt F. Koula, Past M aster
Cre.scenta Valley ..........No. 652.... 'vValter W ayman, Master...........
R. L Hutchinson, Senior Warden
Ross T horn, Junior Warden
James R. Young, P.M. and Inspector....
C harles J. Estep, Past Master
Irvin R. Lockhart, Past Master
Pontana ..........................No. 653 .... John M. Hawkins, Senior Warden ........... ...
Daniel A . Beaton, Junior Warden
Omar C. Kennode, Past Master
Jordan .............................. No. 65i.... C lae Curtis, Master............................ ..............
Harry G. N ichols, S enior Warden
Monte Vista ....... ..........No. 655... J ohn L. Holbrook, MastC'!'..............................
E. B. Jaques. Senior Warden
Otrol ..............................No. 656.... Ph il Campbell, Master....................................
Donald R. Lacy, Senior Warden
John D. Spreckels .......... No. 657.... William R. Adams, Master............
Jack Dalbey, Senior Warden
Philip Crittenden, Junior Warden
Horace H . Blair, Past Master
Livingston ...............- ..... No. 658.... I-lerbert 0 . Dunbar, Junior Warden..............
La Habra ·-··-·····-.........._.No. 659.... Perry D . Ka nipe, Senior Ward en..................
R iley L. Bl urton, P .M. and In specto r............
Baldwin Park ..................No. 660.... Eugene H arr is, Senior W arden......................
Kenn eth Eddings. Junior Warden
M arion M ell, Past Master
M. F . Ross, Past M aster
Malta ....................-.........No. 661.. .. Grover W hitl', Sen io r Ward en......................
Lawrence W. Jaques, Past MastC'!'

57.96
57.96

63.56
63.56
57.2 6
56.12

56.12

1.18

56.28
58.21

61.51
57.26
60.06

59.78
73.08

15.96
59.36
59.36
58.66

56.1 2

Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

442

Nu. of Lodge

llepruc ntativ..

M ileaiie All~

No. 662 .._.Willard M. H uyck, Master .............................. 56.12
Wilbur J. Hank, Senior Warden
Wayne G. Geer, Junior \l\/arden
Harry B. Keeling P ast Master
Paul R. N ichols, Past Master
No 663.... F loyd P. Ayers. Senior Warden.................... 52.08
o· ·
Frank E. Stevens, P.M. and Inspector.......... 52.08
Jal ---·······-····--·· ·-··-·· ·
Kaweah ..........................No. 665.... Emory 0. Hull, Jr., Master...................... -..... 32.62
666 .... Adolph W . D ryden. M aster............................ 51.32
R eseda ............................No·
Jack R. Vickers, Senior Warden
F rank S. Barnard, Past Master
Meridian ..........................No. 667.... Ray P eterson. Sr., Master................................ 56.00
Keith Kinna ird, Se nior W arden
Frank F. Schrage, Junior W arden
John R. Moore. Past Grand Master .......... ·--··· 56.i2
Frank W. Raddatz. P.M. and Inspector........ 56.00
John W. Catt, Past M aster
Clifford M. F arrell. Past Master
John Swan, Past Master
Sao Gorgoolo _ .............No. 668.... Irwin Mills, Senior \Varden............................ 68.18
Leonard McCulloh, Junior Warden
Vernon M ills. Past M aster
John P. Jarman ..............No. 669 .... Richard H. Johnson, Maste r........................-... 7.00
Hebert Pritchard, Past Master
o 670.... Gorman V. Rhea, Master.............................. 57.82
N
Greenleaf ·······--·········-···· ·
Lee A. Strong. Senior Warden
Lemuel S. Benbury, Junior Warden
James L. Twaddell. Past Master
Sao Clemente ..................No. 671....Norman E. Rudolph, Master............ .............. 6i.82
T homas H . Broadbent, Senior W a rden
David H. Blakelock, Past Master
Laguna Beach ................No. 672.... Hugh C. A nderson, Master............................ 63.70
W m. Rex H oover. Senior Warden ................ 63.70
W. Ben Sorrells. Assistant Grand Lecturer.. 63.70
Master
Pa r West -·····- ··-···-···No. 673 .... Albert A. Baker, Jr..Senior
W arden
Edward W. Quon,
John S. Carpenter, Junior Warden
Charles L. Foster, P. M . a nd Inspector
W alter E. Barrus. Past Master
Ian T. Kay. Past Master
William Clement Kunz, Past Master
Earl B. M_yers, Past Mru1ter
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
George B. Quamby, P ast Master
Albert S. Sandell. Past M aster
S. Myron Tatarian, Past Master
Robert Van Heekeren, Past Master
Los Cerritos .....•............- No. 674....EmH Simich. Master................................... ..... 60.06
Irvin Rose, Junior Warden
Jay A. Robinson, Past Master
Arthur J. S!ssons. Past Master
Modesto ------·····-··- ·N o. 675 .... Calvin L. H eim, M aster.................................. 12.7i
Clair M. Peterson. Senior W arden
Frank C. Shaw, P ast Master
W illow Glen -···- --- ···N o. 676.... James M. Johnson, Master.............................. 7.00
W illiam W. Eilers, S enior Warden
OO
Sylvester J. Gorman, Junior W arden
Prank M. Long, P.M. a nd Inspector......... ..... 7.
·
Charles R. Carpenter, Past Master
T hornton D. Webster, Past Master

H enry Knox ··--···········- ··-

Name of Lodg<

No. of Lodge

Rcprt•entativea

443
M ilc•gc Allowed

Liberal Arts ....................No. 677.... Shirley 0. Packa rd, Master.......................... .. 56.42
Thomas H. Wright, Junior Warden
Louis W . Allen. Senior \Varden
Ellsworth Meyer. Past Grand Master.......... .. 57.54
John F. Porter, G rand Marshal... .................. . 64.68
Frank Reinsch. Past Master
Altadena ............._........._No. 678.... Vernon C. T ripp. Master............................... . 57.40
William R. Juer gens. Senior W<lrden
Lee Roy_Carlson. Jwtior Warden
Austin H . Hazard, P<ist Master
Canby Cross -················No. 679 .... John N. Bettandorff, Junior Warden ............ 51.10
Carmel ..........................- No. 680.... Norman F. Fontes, Master .......................... . 17.36
Roy Et!9ene Tilly, Senior Wa rden
Glenn C. Holmes. Past Master
Ra lph Thompson, Sr.. Past Master
005 P alos ----··-···-····---N o. 68 1....John Marlet Eppler, Master......................... .. 19.88
Barstow ······--··---- ·······-No. 682.... Verdon E. Hixson, Senior W<irden ............... . 58.10
L<iwrence E. Keyte, Junior Warden
Redwood E mpire .......... No. 683.... Kenneth S. Brown, Senior Warden.............. .. 29.54
Ernest A. Reynolds, Junior Warden
Trona -······--··········--·····-·No. 684.... Lynn Allen Blackmun. P.M. and Inspector.. 58.66
Hardin I. Lineback, Past Master
San Marino ....................No. 685.... Roland D. Glunt, Master................................ 57.82
Russell C. Eikenberry, Senior Warden
Roy J. Henvilk, Junior Warden
George R. Friederich, Past Master
Attilio G. Parisi. Past Master
Albany ............................N o. 686....A. L. Pavoni. Master
Delbert Salstrom. Senior Warden
George T . Wendover, Junior Warden
Vista .......................... - No. 687.... Victor 0. Moen. Senior Warden................. . 69.58
Lewis H . Field, P.M. and Insp«tor.............. 69.58
Andrew H. Chung. Past Master
Oildale ............................No. 688 .... H ugh E . M anes. Master............................... .. -40.46
Gorrell F. Norman. Senior \ :Varden
C lem E. Churchwell, Junior Warden
Pohona ._ ........................No. 689.... Robert D. Lake, Senior Warden.................. .. 29.26
Richard C. Fischer, Junior Warden
San Carlos ......................No. 690... John Timmins, M aster
Frank Driffi ll, Senior Warden
T. G. W. Henry, Junior W arden
E. Roy Baylis. P. M . and Inspector
Indian W elJ3 Valley......N o. 691....Lloyd H aycock. Master.................................. 56.12
Lewis D. Radcliff, Senior Warden
George Adam, Sr., Junior Warden
Traveler3 ........................ No. 692_ Dale R. \Vilcox, Se.Dior Warden ................... . 12.04
H arry D. Brainard, Past Master
Harold Hamblem, Past Master
Palm Springs .................. No. 693.... Robert S. Bertrand, Senior Warden.............. 71.68
Walter Jackson Stuart, Jr., Junior Warden
Hiram 0. Gordon, Past Master
F rederick A. Morrison, Past Master
San Antonio ....................No. 694.... James P. Milligan, Master.. .......................... .. 58.10
Eugene D. Preuit, Senior Warden
Joe A. Gamache. Junior \Varden
Meudell ............................No. 695 ....Glcn 0. Carroll, Master......................... ....... .. 10.i6
Kenneth C . Cummings, Senior Warden
George H. Hauslein, Junior Warden

444

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR N IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Represen tat ive >

Crossroads ...................._No. 696..-Kenneth J. Davis. Senior Warden............... . 73.08
Saint Elmo - ····················No. 697.... Harry E . Chinn, Master
William R. Meyer. Senior Warden
Peter D. Neilson, Junior W arden
Edmond 0 . Burger. P ast Master
Robert H. Burrow s. Past Master
William McCosh. Past Master
lames S. Pursley. Past M;ister
56.42
William D. Stephens ....No. 698.... Lawrence G. Wallace. Master ....... .
Frank E. Pickett, Senio r W arden
C. L Carter. Junior W arden
60.06
Bixby Knolls ..................No. 699.... G. Wesley Small. Master . ...... .... .
Gordon K. Jackson, Senior Warden
25.62
PondHosa ......................No. 700....Clyde A. Hall, Master.. ........ .......... .... ... ·
James W. Van Natta, Senior W ;irden
Allen J. Lockwood. Junior W arden
42.00
Santa Ynez; Valley ........No. 701.... C. W. Jessup, Elected Representative
57.68
Rosemead ........................ No. 702 .... John P. Dauer. Jr., Master............ .
Robert \V. Wilson. Senior W arden
Robert L Van H ousen. Junior Warden
56.56
Westchester ....................No. 703.... Stokes D. Hughes, Master........................ .
Bror A. Appelber9. Senior Warden
David A. Rouse, junior W arden
lames L. Miles. P.M. and Inspector............... . 56.i2
t. Melvin Hall, Past M aster
Orinda ............................ No. 7G1 ....Charles H. Cunningham, Master
Geoq:ie E . Chase. Senior Warden
John). Prentice, Past Master
El Cerrito ........................No. 705 .. _Ralph P . Partridge, P.M. a nd Inspector
John L. Wixon, Pa st Master
Hunters Point N av:il ....No. 706 ....Charles R. Shour, Master
Harold D. Seeskin, Senior W a rden
George E. Gammon, Junior W 'a rden
Rodger S. Shour, Past Master
Louis J. Wells. Past Master
Lake Tahoe ....................No. 707.... Not Represented
6i.12
Sea faring ···········-···········No. 708 .... 0scar A. Hulstrom, Master ....................... .
Ralph J. Irwin, Senior W arden
R. Vernon Peck, Junior Warden
Herman W. Toedter, P.M . and Inspector.... 64.12
Joseph V. Antista, Past Master
Lorenro ..........................No. 709.... Roy J. Abbett. Master
Burrell C. Ka hn, Senior Warden
Lester H . Schrag, Junio r Warden
Edward C. W ill, P. M. a nd Inspector
52.6i
Anacapa ·-·······················No. 710.... Wallace Roberson, Senior W arden............. .
Irvin K. Meadows, Junior Warden
Rim of the '..Vorld ..........No. 71 I.. .. Edward H . Kammer. Master ......................... . 65.66
Loyal D . Klopfenstien, Senio r Warden
John D. Williams, /unior W <irclen
Arthur M. Hartwe 1. Past Master
Los Altos ........................No. 712 .... Edgar F . Thorsen, Master.............................. H8
Raymond F . Foote, Junio r Warden
Castro Valley ................No. 713.... George E. Patterson, Master......................... . 3.50
Clement B. Cole, Seni<X Warden
Blue Lakes ......................No. 71-i .... Donald E. Forster, M aster
James E. Weston, Senior Warden
John W. McLain, Junior Warden
Gordon E. Robinson. P. M. and Inspector
Peter C. Colliander, Past Master

Name ol Lods;c

No. of Lodge

Rcpruentatives

445
Milcaiie Allo""'d

Magnolia Park ····-········No. 7 15.... Wilcken L. Byram, M aster..... -....................... 55.H
Ralph E . Swann. Senior W arden
Carl C. Voelker, Junior W arden
Belmont Shore ................No. 716.._Benjamin C . Lewis, Master............................ 60.06
Charles I. V an Doren, Senior W arden
Ralph W . Coulter, Junior Warden
Omer D . Akin, Past M aster
Francis H. Gentry, Past Master
Wayfarer ··--···········-·······No. 717 .... Charles B. Ruffner, Master........................ .... 57.82
Robert H . Briggs, S enior Warden
San Lorenzo Valley ......No. 718.... Donald G . Ley, M aster.................................... 10.08
\.Villiam E . Frick, Junior Warden
William K. Makela , Past Master
Harry L. Wooley, Past Master
Estero ..............................No. 719 .... Harold A. Pikes, Master.................................. 33. 18
Lester F. Yeates. Senior Warden
Chad Horton. P. M . and Inspector................ 32.34
Mineral King .................. No. 720.... W illiam S. Blankenship, Master............ ........ 31.36
John R. Hoehn, Past Master
bonald H. Mullin, Past Master
Home ······--··············-······No. 721._Seymour Glick, Master.................................... 54.60
Sidney Herman, Senior W arden
Frank Gelfound, Junior Warden
Geor11e E . Tutt ..............No. 722.... Harold R. Rodgers, Master........................... 7.42
James E. Curtis, S enior Warden
Lawrence J. W elster. Junior Warden
7.00
George D. Stroope. P. M . and Inspector
Acalanes ···············-········No. 723.._Robert W . Keller, Master
H enry W. Scheuer, Senior W a rden
San Ramon Valley ........No. 72.of.... Charles Baker Booth, Senior W arden.......... i .62
3.50
Saint John's ................... No. 725 .... Elmer H. M ielbrecht, Master..........................
Earl F. Beard, Senior Warden
Harry M. Cameron, Junior Warden
Martin H. Quinn, Past Master
Yucaipa ···············-·········No. 726.... Eino W . Lehto, Senior Warden.................... 65.52
Joseph L. Hofer, P ast Master
Verdugo Hills ................ No. 727.... Jack A . Eberhardt, Master............................ 56.00
Loren J. Kling, Senior W a rden
Ray C . Cathcart, Past Master
Philip B. Stone. Past Master.......................... 55.11
Lakewood ........................No. 728 .... William Vernon Rich ardson. Master............ 60.06
Perry Sherwood Rand, Senior W a rden
Floyd 0 . M ason, P . M. and Inspector.......... 60.06
Kenneth L. Hemph ill, Past Master.................. 60.06
Donald E. Keith. Past Master
Centennial ················- ····No. 729.... Albert A . Walters, Master....................... .... 58.38
James H. Smith, Senior W arden
12.46
Polaris ············---··- - ··No. 730.... Edward Ea rl Seag le. Master................
Clarence J. Brownell. Senior W arden
Wa lter F. Rutherford, Junior Warden
58.10
Two Rivers ....................No. 731.. .. Frank R. Walsh, Se nior Warden........
Lee A. Owens. Junior \-Varden
San Juan .......................... No. 732 .... George C. Fi nis, Senior \ Varden .... ............. 12.i 6
Harry H . Dewey, Junior Warden
Golden Empire ..............No. 733.... Marvin 0 . Olson. Master.............................. 12.04
Asa V. Cline, Senior W arden
Gwinn R. Anderson, Past Master
Kenneth Chase, P<ist Master
Joseph Robinson. Past Master
Robert K. Titus, P ast Master

446

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. o( Lod ~c

N•me of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repre&entativu

M ilea1e AllOWecl

Ktt Carson ·······-··-·········No. 734.... William A. L. Long. Sr., Master.................. 12.0i
Charles L. Mundy. Senior Warden
Truman N. Fassett. Past Master
Oasis of Mara ............- ..No. 735.... Gerhardt W. Steil, Senior \:Varden............ 71.96
Simon A . Yockey, Junior \:Varden
Lemon Grove ..................No. 736.... Chester T . Hobbs, Master................. ............ 74.62
Le Roy H . Nienaber, Senior Warden
Marland A . Long. Junior Warden
Thomas E. Parsons. Past Master
William E. Rife, Past Master
Hillsborough ..................No. 737 ... .John Burszan, Jr., Master
Hobard E. Laughlin, Senior Warden
John Louis Hart. Junior W arden
Fred P. Livingston, Past Master
Arvin ..............................No. 738....Lester L. Frick, Senior W arden.................... 43.68
La Canada ......................No. 739 .... Melvin N. Wilson, Senior Warden................ 56.28
Wallace C. Kellogg, Junior Warden
Ralph W . Collins, Assistant Grand Lecturer 56.42
Opportunity ....................No. 710.... James W. N ewton. Master............................ 57.96
Carl E. Liedtke, Senior W arden
Roy A. Hunter, Junior W a rden
Tyre ·············-···-·······- ····No. 711.. .. Robert Arthur Millhouse, Jr., Master............ 58.52
Ja n Scheffer, Senior Warden
Morningside P ark .......... No. 712 .... Giles T . Chism, Master........................ ......... 58.10
Joseph A . Shomph. Senior Warden
Albert E . Linde, Past Master
Oakwood ·--····-·-··--··· ..No. 713.... Donald J. Wood. Master ........................... - ... 56.28
Edward S. Hunt. Senior \!Varden
Clarence E. Glaze. Grand Bible Bearer.......... 56.28
William B. Neeley, Past Master.................... 56.00
San Leandro ..................No. 7H ....William F. Butler. Ma ster
John W. Parkl'r, Past Master
Peninsula ············-········-·No. 715.... Jac.k Bates Johnson, Master
Edwin J. Biddell. Senior Warden
George W. Nance. Junior Warden
Kenneth W. Buckley, Past M aster
Richard Eugene Giesin, Past M aster
Theodore A. Luka, P ast M aster
Joseph E. Young, Past Master
Soquel ...................•..........No. 716.... William Blankenbillcr, Master........................ 10.61
Charles Nelson Cooper, Senior Warden
Alvin William Wendt, Past Master
Claude H . Morrison ......No. 717.... Alton P. Jackson, Elected Representative.... 73.92
Highland ........................ No. 748.._Russell L. Sturgeon, Master............................ 62.72
Harold L. Johnsto n, Junior W arden
Guy W. 'Whelchel, Past Master
Merct>d ·-·--·--·-···--···-No. 749.... Robert \V. Short, Master ................ ·-············· 17.92
Mother Colony ·········-···No. 750.... George G . Bell, Master.................................. 60.Ji
James E. Seay, Senior Warden
Hamilton ........................No. 751....Robert W . Bussman, Master.......................... 3.92
Glenn D . Graham, Senior Warden
Hugo E. Clever, Past Master
William T . Miazga. Past Master
Robert C. Remley, Past Master
P. D. Sprague, Past Mastt>r
Luther Burbank ..............No. 752.... Charles E. Dix, Master.................................... 7.56
E. B. Personctt, Junior W arden
Charles B. \Vight, P. M. and Inspector........ 7.56
Frederick Tillmannshofer, Past Master
Lawndale .....·-·········--····No. 753 .... William Charles Harris, Senior Warden...... 57.96
Wilbur Ray Hunter, Junior Warden

447

Rtpruentatives

San Pablo ........................ No. 751 ....Everett L. Durkee. Master
Q yde W. Mann, Senior Warden
Golden Bowl ..................No. 755.... William G. Dusatko, Senior Warden............
Virgil Sperline, Junior Warden
Otto Christensen, Past Master
Dayton Valley ..............No. 756.... E. G. Walter Dubbs, Master....................... .
Glenn F. Gregg, Senior Warden
ohn C. Jacobson. Junior Warden
oseph Brouss, Past Master
Channel ..........................No. 757 .... Maurice P . Brodbeck, Junior W arden ............
Wendell Howard Nicol. P.M . and Inspector
William E. Chandler, Past Master
W est Covina ..................No. 758 .... Kcith A. Howe, Master.....·-····- ·····················
John W. Parker, Senior Warden
El Rancho ...................... No. 759 .... Jerry Walvoord, Master..................................
Alpha Moses. Jr., Senior Warden
Thoralf Th orsen, Past Master
Lakeside ···········-·············No. 760.... Lyle E. F oote, Senior Warden..................... .
Josiah W, Roller ............No. 761.. .. Joseph W. Doucette, Master..........................
Stanley V. Davis, Senior \Varden
Harvey Nixon, Junior W arden
Oswe T . Lund, Past Master
Herbert Ernest Simons, Past Master
Warren P. Tood. Past Master
Coastslde ··-···············- No. 762.... Edwin Charles Kinney. Master
James Phillip Williams. Senior Warden
Daniel Robert Davis, Junior \.Varden
Clarence William Howell, Past Master
W illiam Murphy. Past Master
Glen Edward Sta ley, Past Master
Arabic -·--·-···-·········-····-·No. 763....Joseph M. Deeb, M aster............................... .
Edward E. Deeb, Senior Warden
Norman A. Barakat, Past Master
Heritage ..........................No. 76'!....Camillo L. Passarelli, Master....................... .
Milton William Bradley, Senior Warden
Dana R. Weller .............. No. 765 .... Roy C. Schaeffer, Senior Warden................
Kam C. Akana, Past Master
Philip F. Lucas, Past Master
Horold C. Mclendon, Past Master
James H. Kew ................No. 766.... Frederick C. Cratz, Master........................... .
Glenn Franklin Brannum, Senior Warden
Charles Joseph Stewart, Junio r Warden
William Robusch, P .M. and Inspector....... .
Wm. Rhodes Hervey ....No. 767._George W. Feasell, Master...........................•
Earle A. Gray, Past Masttt
Raymond W. Phebus, Past Master
Zenith ·-·-···--·-····No. 768.... Howard Langworthy, Master....................... .
George P. Bacigalupi, Senior Warden
Reginald Fudge, Past Master
Palmdale -·-··-·-·- No. 769 .... Robert M . Hesselgrave, Master..................... .
George R. Wilson, Senior \Varden
Gerald L. Myers. Junior \Varden
Lake Chabot - ···············No. 770..•. Paul Janvier, Master
Kenneth Huffstutter, Junior Warden
Mis.slon Bay _,................. No. 771.... Argyll Torbert, Master................................. .
Bobby G. Hooten, Senior \Varden
Joe Bill Matlock, Junior Warden
Avenal ............................ No. 772 .... Jack C. Savage, Junior Warden..................... .

f

57.10

1.31

10.92
10.92
58.66
58.10
74:48
1.18

56.12
51.60
58.38

58.10
58.10
56:42
54.32
51.18

73.08
31.61

448
Name of Lodge

Tejon

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentacives

Mileage Allowed

S. Little, Master................................ 40.46
--·····-··-····-·-No. 773._Hermillll
Louis B. Smith, Senior Warden

Peter W. Todd, Junior WBl'deu
George C. Poloynls, Senior Grand Steward 40.46
H. GUy Walford, Past Master
WaJklki ---·--No . 774.... Rd>ert W . Quinn, Junior Warden .................. 338.19
Ahoon H. Wong, Junior Grand Steward...... 338.19
Kenneth L. Look, Past Master
San Oieguito ··-··-···.No. 775.... Walter P. Kirby, Junior Warden................ 70.14
East Whittier -----·No. 776_Russell W. Spencer, Muter........................ - 57.82
Tohn A. Thomas, Senior Warden
Lee Hicks. Junior Warden
Richard M. Lustig, P.M. and Inspector.......... 57.82
Elmer A. Bentley, Past Master
Pinnacle -·---···-···No . 777....William M. Head, Master............................ 18.48
Percy H. Dunlap, Past Master
La Mimda ----·--No. 778.... Howard C. Campbell, Master........................ 59.22
Harry M. Jenks, Senioc Warden
Joe T. Wilson, Junior Warden
Richard L. Riemer, Past Master...................... 58.52
Five Points ____ ___No. 779.... Kenneth R. Niles, Master................................ 60.06
Charles C. Klein, Senior Warden
Donald C. O'Neil, Junior Warden
Riviera -··------No . 780.... John B. Patterson, Master.............................. 56.28
William Howard Crooks, Sr., Junior Warden
Mark R. Throssel, Past Master
Rolling Hills -···---···No. 781....Ernest Oakes, Jr., Senior Warden.................. 59.78
Robert J. Rudge, Junior Warden
Silverado ------No. 782.... 0tto W. Lindke, Master............-.................. 6.58
James W. Kennedy, Senior Warden
Chester A. Schell, Junior Warden
Mojave

..._No. 783....

k!:~'. ..~·-~----~--~-~~~~~ 4~:~
~:aif.~}!;:.e
Fred D. Harrison, Jr., Senior Warden

Jerald Dean Ferren, Junior Warden
George W. Bennett, Past Master
Leland Stanford -·····-·-No. 784....Chester W. Kimball, Master·-····-·······--····--··
Leon D. Sine, Senior Warden
LeRoy W. Richards, Junior Warden
Paramount -····-····No. 785__ Burley Wilbur Green, Master........................
Marion Albert Jenkins, Senior Warden
Martin Muker, Junior Warden
Rio Linda -·-·-··--No. 786.... ~=t~1<i':J;er~:f~·w;d~-·--············
Robert C. Simmons, Junior Warden
Westmlmtcr -·······--·····No. 787_.David Martin Allen, Senior Warden............
John Robert Hampton, Jr., Junior Warden
Sierra -----·--N o. 788....Lintoo E. Forrester, Elected Representative..
Oak Plalm --···--·--·No. 789...James K. Wilson, Master-·········-···················
Walter D. Driver, Senior Warden
Jack D. Brooks, Junior Warden
Granada Hills -···-···No. 790.... Merrill E. Balser, Senior Warden..................
Robert L. Lawson, Junior Warden
Gen. Henry H. Arnold. ... No. 791....Robert E. Hedblom, Master............................
&lward L. Lane, Senior Warden
W. S. Neander, Junior Warden
Millbrae ---····-····-No . 792.... James W. Bateman, Master
Powell A. Cassidy, Senior Warden
Carlyle W. Corson, Junior Warden
Robert C. Olson, Past Ma.ster
Carl F. Peterson, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

57.54
14.00
60.20
29.40
12.04
52.92
52.08

Mileage Allowed

Maya ························-····No. 793.... Richard G. Quiroz, Senior Warden.............. 56.42
Mt. Wilaon ....................No. 794.... Lawrence C. Lamb. Master................·-······-· 57.40
William J. Stone, Senior Warden
John R. Hicks, Junior Warden
Henry M. Welch, Senior Grand Deacon...... 57.54
T . William Heidner, P.M. and Inspector...... 57.54
American River ········-····No. 795.... fames E. Wagner, Master................... ........... 15.40
oseph H. Wilson, Senior Warden
Hudson D. Hanawalt, Junior Warden
Robert E. Green, Grand Standard Bearer.... 14.56
Golden Valley ·········-·····No. 796.... Emest R. Zuick, Master.................................. 63.56
Ralph L. Cross, Senior Warden
H. Frank Ruthoff, Jr., Past Master
Tila Pass --····--·············No. 797.... Segundo S. Dayrit, Master............................ 56.42
Nicolas Buenaventura, Senior Warden
George G. Valdez, Junior Warden
Ashland ·········--········-·-····No. 798.... Edward D. Fernandes, Master
Edward H. Clark, Senior Warden
William Arthur Brennan, Junior Warden
Merle Jay Fisher, Past Master
Bay Claire Vista .........•_No. 799.... Frank R. Davis, Master.................................. 73.08
W. lrvin Lane, Senior Warden
James A. Falls, Junior Warden
Thomas Francis McAleer, Jr., Past Master
Rio Hondo _....................No. 800.... Evert A. Carter, Master................................ 58.24
Howard M. Magill, Senior Warden
Leslie E. Frampton, Junior Warden
·
Koolau ····-···················-No. 801..•.William J. Thomas, Master............................ 341.69
Yucca Valley ····---·-·····No. 802.... Al F. Furton, Master........................................ 68.18
Charles S. Watkins, Senioc Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, Past Master
'!'.he Gabilan ..................No. 803.... Ralph Beau.chame. Master.............................. 15.12
Ernest L. Kaiser, junior Warden
Moreno Valley ·······-·····No. 804.... Wayne L. SchoolerMunior Warden............ 65.10
Camellia •.........................No. 805....

22.68

Repreaentativea

449

S=a~· ~~n~~;!~r M::::.............................. 58.38

Marion D. Burke, Senior Warden
Griffith G. Williams. Junior Warden
Simi Valley ·--·····-··-······No. 806.... Donald F. Patterson. Senior Warden.......... 53.90
Conejo Valley ·········-·····No. 807 .... Harry E. Kelley, Senior Warden.................. 53.90
Harold L. Retan. Junior Warden
Scepter ....................................808..- Valery Michael Riman, Master.................... 11.48
Richard Virgil Stall, Junior Warden
Los Alamitos .....................- .....809._.Paul A. Burtner, Master.................................. 58.94
Victoria Palms ........................810.... Maurice B. Hawkins, Senior Warden.......... 64.40
Willis G. Moxon, Sr., Junior Warden
Woodland Hills ...................... 811....Samuel Crystal, Master.................................. 55.02
John Markley Server, Jr., Senior Warden
John Sherman Lucas, Junior Warden
Triad ......................................U.D•.•.. Carol D. K~ylor, Senior Warden.................. 57.40
Old West ........... - .................U.D ..... Alexander H. Campbell, Master.................... 50.12
Charles E. Taylor, Senior Warden
... _.. .... ···- ..·-····~···-· 37,2+5.14
Total ..... .....

~

UST OF CONSTI TUENT LODGES

Ul

0

s.
With Membership, Charter Dates, Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred. Per Capita Payments, Contribution
Fees.
Degree
and
Homes,
Masonic
for
$1.00
plus
Lodge
Grand
for
$2.30
Column tirled "G. L. Per Capita" includes
Contributio n of $1.00 and California
Column titled "Members Contribution s" includes H omes Contributio n of $25.00, G. W. Memorial
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A . L. 5962.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetica l Li st of Lodges page i90.
N o.

M embers

Charter
Issued

Degree
fee.a

Affil.
f eet

1 California ---·········-------······· 1
2 Western Star..............._... 2
3 Tehama -·-····-·········· ······ 3
4 Benicia ···-·····--····· ·.. ······ 5
5 Tuolwnne ·······-···---······--··· 8
6 Corinthian ...__................ 9
7 San Jose -············-···· ·····- 10
8 Yount ................................ 12
9 Nevada .............................. 13
10 Temple ·······--·····-·- ········· H
11 Eureka ·---··········............. 16
12 La Parfalte Union............ 17
13 Mountain Shade .............. 18
14 San Joaquin ·--········---··---·· 19
15 Washington ········----·········- 20
16 Hawaiian .......................... 21
17 Occidental ······--------·········· 22
18 Madison ............................ 23
19 Mariposa .......................... 24
20 Georgetown ...................... 25
21 El Dorado ........................ 26
22 Trinity ---··-···· -··- 27
23 Golden Gate ······---··- 30
24 Gold Hill ···-···-··-··· --· 32
33
25 Ophir - - ·
35
216 s.a Dkvo

i5i
213
85 1
2i2
277
45i
535
543
177
250
374
114
61
804
903
407
615
318
192
67
289
176
554
119
93

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
185 1
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853

100
100
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
50
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
50
75
125
100
50

20.00
20.00
10.00

1023
272

18S3
1854

HO

5e2

1859

100

Lodge

.............

37

-

so

so

40

81-t

185-t

JOO

30 Martinez ···-···········-·· ······· 41
31 Los Angeles .................... 42
32 Hiram ................................ 43
33 Mount Moriah ·····---·-········ ii
34 Crescent ............................ 45
35 Texas ·····--·-······················ 46
36 Forbestown ...................... 50
37 Illinoistown ...................... 51
38 Suisun ····---·--······················ 55
39 Volcano ............................ 56
40 Santa Rosa ...................... 57
41 Union ··············-----·-··········· 58
42 Gravel Range .................. 59
43 Plumas .............................. 60
44 Live Oak .......................... 61
45 NaJtoma ............................ 64
46 Amador ............................ 65
47 Morning Star .................... 68
48 Enterprise ........................ 70
49 Bear Mountain ...-........... 76
50 Calaveras .......................... 78
51 Humboldt .......................... 79
52 lone .................................. 80
53 Yolo .................................. 81
54 Vesper .............................. 84
55 Naval ................................ 87
56 Rose's Bar ........................ 89
57 North Star ........................ 91
58 St. H elena ........................ 93
59 Henry Clay ...................... 95
60 Hornitos ............................ 98
61 Yosemite ·····················-··· 99
62 Clay -- .............................. 101

il8
1005
122
329
223
55
134
83
304
112
675
735
101
188
914
358
94
661
383
76
122
527
100
117
247
1161
60
81
133
79
107
508
1QC)

1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

75
125
75
100
125
50
50
60
75
50
75
75
50
75
75
100

29 Seaameato ·-

50
100
50
50
85
75
50
50
100
75
50
50
50
60
55
90
50

-2.00
5.00
5.00
6.00

-2.00
--

15.00
5.00

--

10.00
10.00
25.00

---

5.00
15.00

5.00
10.00
1.00
4.00

-1.00

I.DO

10.00

--

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
5.00

-- -

10.00
5.00
10.00

--

2.50
J.00
5.00
5.00

- 5 .00
3.00
10.00

----10.00
5.00
5.00
1.00

- 10.00

---

Me mben
Contrib.

G. L.

Duca

[nit.

Pas•ed

Raioed

Per Capita

18
15
15
18
12
18
12
18
16
15
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
15
16
15
12
15
12
15
20

6
7

5
9
7
5
6
15
6
12
4
5

5
7
11
6
5
to

1471.30
712.70
2820.80
800.40
912.30
1495.00
1761.40
1762.20
588.50
829.10
1215.00
378.90
204.30
2651.90
2969.70
1354.20
2011.20
1058. to
638.40
226.10
953.40

4
4
16

12

II

u

15
15
15
12
15
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
16
12
15
12
15
15
15
12
18
12
16
12
12
12
12
16
16
12
15
12

19

•

15

17

'27(11 .'5()

7\5.al)

8
50
2
1
3

7
45
3
2
4
I
9
2
16

7
33
3
2

1375.00
3411.50
410.60
1054.40
740 ..30
183.50
463.60
279.90
1022.80
3i5.00
2241.00
2i09.10
346.30
622.80
2993.70
1220.iO
321.20
2204.70
1285.90
214.90
400.00
1763.50
326.70
395.80
834.50
3745.60
215.00
251.10
i25.40
266.70
361.80
168i .90
359.40

305.00
2035.00
95.00
35.00
130.00

,.

11

..7

18
5
9

3
4
9
2
l
12
10
6
7

i
5
3
13
4
8

2

2

384.20

3
18

6
21

303.40

-

13
1
3

-

8
14
5
4

to
II
i
8
19
2
3
15

7
2
1
9
13
7

2
I
14
13
8
6
3
7
2
IO
2
3

6

JO
2
13

4
5

11

5

-

8
12

a

11
14
4
3
9
12
3
9
19

-

1
8

5

,.,

4
I

9
2
17
2
11
15
4

2
8
16
4
13

17
2
-

8

-

-

-

6
6
18
4

4
9
12
8

3
11

-

-

-

1
2
4
5
1

2
4
8
1

13
5
2
2
4
12
1

455.00
35.00
105.00

584.50
1805.90
3388.00
909..20

..

,.,,

•

210.00
295.00
435.00
165.00
245.00
655.00
225.00
340.00
105.00
140.00
365.00
70.00
35.00
i20.00
375.00
210.00
270.00
175.00
235.00

140.00
140.00
585.00
.S.00
f

350.00
70.00
505.00
375.00
490.00
175.00
M0.00
350.00
410.00
140.00
330.00
690.00
70.00
105.00
575.00
25.00
210.00
235.00
630.00
190.00
35.00
70.00
140.00
175.00
35.00

~

Ul

Lode•

N o.

63 Oroville ............................ 103
64 Lexington ···················-·····104
65 Arcata ··············· -·············106
66 Pajaro .............................. 110
67 Chico ................................ 111
68 Summit .............................. 112
69 Eden ················--·-············ l 13
70 Conco rd ·············-· ··--········· 17
71 Fidelity -············-············· 120
72 Alamo ...•............................ 122
73 Sotoyom e .......................... 123
74 Table Mounta in .............. 124
75 La Fayette ........................126
76 Hermann ········--··· -·········127
77 Visalia ............... ............... 128
78 Nicolaus ·········-····· ············129
79 Woodbri dge .................... 131
80 Sincerity ·······-··················.132
81 Vacaville .......................... 13-f
82 Valle y ..............................135
83 Pacific ····················--·········136
84 Crockett ·········----··············· 139
85 Curtis ··-·············-·····-····140
86 Grafton ···-························· 1'f1
87 Franklin ·············· ·····-····- H3
88 Oriental ···············-··········.tH
89 Vitruvlus ···········--· -··-·····145
90 Abell ··············· ······--········146
91 Eel River ••.•......................147
92 Lassen - -··--·-···········- 149
93 Molino _ _ _ --=--..1 50
156
91 Woodlaa d

...,.

161

City -···- -··-- •61

100 Mission ···········-· ·-····--··1 69
101 Elk Grove ........................ 173
102 Drytown ..........................171
103 Antioch ..............................175
104 Ph()('ni x ·············-············.178
105 Mendoci no ············-··········179
106 Petalumn .......................... 180
107 Russian River ................. .181
108 Arbuckle .......................... 182
109 Clear Lake ........................ 183
I 10 Sierra Valley .................. 184
111 Claiborne ..........................185
112 E vening Star .................. 186
113 Keith ................................ 187
114 O akland ............... ..........- .188
115 Northern Li11ht ............... . 190
116 Marin ................................191
117 Santa Barbara .................. 192
118 Ferndale .......................... 193
119 Mountain View .............. 194
120 Buckeye ............................195
121 San Simeon ······-·············· 196
122 Wilming ton ......................198
123 Hartley ............................ 199
124 Truckee ............................ 200
125 Silveyville ·-···-·-············201
126 Pentalph a -·-·················202
127 Confidence -·-····-···········203
128 Salinas ..............................204
11.9 Olivet ••.............................. 205
130 Stanislaus ............... ......... 206
131 Ana hei m ..........................207
132 Rio V ista ..........................208

M ~ rnbtn

386
644
352
425
604
64
453
383
569
458
246
318
238

172
575
129
199
97
285
99
542
472
96
114
148
323
131
359
261
2'l3
169
.319
40
29

IN

677

S92
145
65
415
766
115
334
122
83
149
33
83
72
193
773
116
540
365
90
394
153
94
663
241
141
154

4H
95
625
144
675
498
184

Cb•trh·r
l >1urd

D e~r<e

1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
186 1
1861
186 1
186 1
186 1
1862
1862
1863

65
150
75
75
90
50
105
75
100
75
75
80
75
100
75
50
50
100
75
50
100
75
50
50
75
100
50
50
50
100
50

....

1163

iUi

1864
1861

1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870

A ff ii.
f ns

f<<t

5.00
1.00
1.00

-

-

5.00

I0.00
15.00

5.00
1.00

20.00

5.00
5.00
5.00

12.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
1.00

-

-

-J.00

l hu...

lmt.

P aa:-cd

R:iiat·d

15
16
15
18
15
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
12
18
15
15
16
15
15
12
25
15
15
12
12
15

16
16
10
4
9

19
14
11
5
9

17
13
10
12
8

6
5
10
5

7
6

IS

so
so

-2.50

IS
16

50

5.00

12

i'iil

m

100
100

50
50
75
75
100
80
75

so

50
'50
50
50
50
75
65
100
75
50
100
75
50
125
65
90
90
100
75
105
50
75
105
JOO

t.00

S0.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

--

5.00
1.00
10.00

5.00

2.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

-

5.00
5.00

-

- 10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

- -

-

-

--

-

1.00

5

5
10
5
4
IS
5
3
10
9
4
4
8

I

II

12

4

-!

12
3
4
12
12

7
2
4
11
12
5
4
9
3
15
3
4
2
2
2
3
6

5
3
9
l
8

10
1
3
2
3

3
3
2
4
2
1
4
8

I

2
6
8
3
6

6

7
7

8

8

JS

I

..,ta.. ,.'

12
12
15
12
16
15
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
Ill
15
12
12
16
15
20
15
15
12
21
18
15
15
18

-

-

10
11

n

I

-

I

2
4
3

8
3
3
2
I

7
4
7
4
12
13
2
7
2
3
18
8
7
4

II
12
7
I

lS

5

7
7

14
17
4

-

-

8
5
5
i
6
2
1
I
l
5

s

7

s

-

I
H

3
4
20
6
5
2
12
9
8
3
16
22
3

Membcn

1309.30
2145.IO
1192.60
1410.30
1860.80
208.90
1499.70
1279.90
l!l7HO
1523.50
813.90
1073.50
785.50
572.00
1900.80
452. IO
660.80
33 l.IO
946.70
324. 10
1712.70
1541.50
326.80
378.90
497.40
1067.60
438.30
1197.40
884.30
800.40

560.00
585.00
375.00
140.00
390.00

566.80
1057.JO
IZ!l.?0
9.140

~

Contrib .

\J1
IV

275.00
175.00
375.00
175.00
140.00
550.00
200.00
105.00
375.00
315.00
140.00
140.00
280.00
350.00
35.00
105.00
70.00
105.00
35.00
70.00
260.00
305.00
105.00
235.00
305.00

...,

tiO.l/D

,7
t4

8
6
3
6
13
2
5
I

4
-

3
4
3
8
3

8
5
12
12

1;, L .
Pl'f C;,p1ta

II
II

15
3
3
12
6
4

2
11
7
9
3
17
16
3

'2\39.\0
\937 .-\Q

~ .00

478.00
222.90
1317.20
2455.80
376.60
I 101.00
393.40
275.90
495.80
109.90
266.70
252.60
640.30
2534.30
375.00
1790.60
1204.20
300.00
13 19.70
503.00
307.00
2218.l O
8 15.30
44 I .70
499.70
1489.30
338.20
2063.40
478.90
2214.80
1678.60
610.60

\75.00
245.00
245.00
305.00
105.00
105.00
95.00
35.00
200.00
35.00
60.00
270.00
165.00
245.00
140.00
445.00
505.00
70.00
295.00
70.00
105.00
630.00
280.00
270.00
140.00
1!0.00
445.00
270.00
35.00
540.00
705.00
110.00

5\5 .00

~

\J1

\,.>

LodR•

No.

133 King D avid's ·····-············209
134 Friendship ................._..... 210
135 San Benito .-.....................211
136 South San Prancisco........212
137 San Buenaventura ..........214
138 Oak Grove ...................... 215
139 Doric _ .............._.............216
140 Monterey ........................ ..217
HI Mosaic ..................- .......... 218
142 Speranza ltaliana ............219
143 Downey ............- ............220
144 Inyo ................._ ........_ ..221
145 Roseville .......................... 222
146 Bakersfield ........................224
147 Brooklyn ..........................225
148 San Mateo ........................ 226
149 Athens ..............................228
150 Solano ..........._.._ ......._...229
151 North Butte ....................230
152 Covelo ...........- .................231
153 Janesville ............- ............232
154 Calist~a - ...............- .......233
155 Ho·pe ................................234
156 Surprise Valley ..............235
157 Hills Ferry ......................236
158 Guadalupe ........................237
159 Colusa ..............................240
160 Santa Ana ........................241
161 Magnolia .............- ...- ....242
162 Eucalyptus .....- .............243
163 Alcatraz ...........-----------244
.~45
164 Laurel - - ·
246
\65 ~
Ul6._

119~

r..-tarlr

247
-218
-25.J

170 Reading -------·----251
171 Welcome ............- ...........255
172 Lodi -·····--·-·-·-·-· --····256
173 Penrhyn .....- ...................258
174 Evergreen ......_ ...............259
175 King Solomon's ................260
176 Tuscan ......- .....................261
177 Lompoc ....- ....................262
178 Hesperlan ........................264
179 Orland ·--.......................... 265
180 North East ......................266
181 Galt _ ....- ........................267
182 Durant ...- ........................268
183 Olive Branch ..................269
184 Snow Mountain .............. 271
185 Pasadena · - - ·----······-····272
186 Anchor -----..................273
187 Arroyo ·-··--.....................274
188 Oakdale ·-- .....................275
189 Selma -····----·--·--...........277
190 Southern California ......278
191 Hanford ............................279
192 Madera ---- ........_ ....- ... 280
193 Mount Shasta ..................281
194 Calayoml ..........................282
195 South West ......................283
196 San Miguel - ..................285
197 Paso Robles ......................286
198 Winnedumah ..................287
199 Maxwell ....- ..................... 288
200 Elsinore -··-·····----··- -..289
201 East Gate ..........................290
202 Santa Paula ...................... 291
203 Los Gatos ...........- .........292
204 Orange Grove ...........- ...293

Mcmb<n

116
746
183
224
441
553
"126
328
273
234
948
161
477
767
481
638
197
551
245
73
166
126
108
68
159
227
153
586
"191
539
546
254
136
7%1
187

---.-.--111
285
216
398
145
733
412
92
2"19
421
160
56
87
413
312
47
535
640
176
210
235
435
224
282
159
69
582
80
300
241
65
136
665
421
404
348

Chorter
h eucd

D<11ree
Pcu

/\flit.
Peet

1870
1871
1871
187 1
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
187'1
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
J877
J878

100
115
65
95
100
100
100
75
75
100
125
50
75
100
75
100
50
75
75
50
75
50
50
50
75
75
50
75
100
99

l.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

75

10.00
5.00

11178

65

3.00
1.00

1879

50
90

1.00
5.00

-l.00

10.00

-

---

5.00
10.00

--

10.00

-

-1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

--

10.00
1.00

-

--

50
IJS

--

Duu

! nit.

Paaocd

Raiecd

15
12
15
15
18
18
18
20
18
12
15
18
15
18
18
18
12
16
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
15
15
18
15
12
JS
JS

5
16
6
3
6
6

4
20

1I
5

4
13
4
3
9
8
1
13
8
3
40
2
18
9
4
8
3
7
4

-

-

.... - -- ...

1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889

llO

--

90

50
50
75
115
50
75
75
50
50
50
80
75

75
115
125
65
75
80
75
100
50
90
75
105

50
75
100
75
75
75
50
75
75

-3.00

-

-

1.00

-2.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

-l.00

--6.00
1.00
12.00

--3.00

-

5.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

--

-

-

10.00

--

-1.00

18

l
8
8
I
"14
2
26
9
4
6
3

2
I
2
2
22
2
14
14
17
6

-

a

16

'9

12

18
15
12
18
18
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
12
15
20
15
12
15
12
18
15
12
12
16
12
15
18
12
18
12
18
18
18

9
12
1
18
3

I
30
12
3

5
38
3
15
9
2

11
2
6
9

-

4
1

'I

4
18

5
6
6
12
4
20
15

5

-

-

-

-

-

2
15

2
16

-

-

10
12
17
3
5

17
15
13
5
5

G. L.
Per Capita

M e mber.
Contrib.

1366.00
2491.00
618.90
668.70
1453.20
1798.10
1375.50
1087.10
912.10
751.50
3214.10
528.40
1626.50
2515.20
1564.30
2071.00
638.30
1779.60
826.50
237.60
55'1.20
'108.90
357.40
219.80
524. IO
795.50
503.60
1951.70
1634.90
1802.60
1730.00
835.70
li72.20

225.00
560.00
210.00
105 .00
235.00
210.00
85.00
330.00
380.00
35.00
1590.00
70.00
935.00
315.00
165.00
235.00
105.00
410.00
175.00

--

165.00
70.00
35.00
70.00
95.00
820.00
70.00
490.00
540.00
620.00
235.00
165.00
655.00
ZllO.OD

lJ

9

1

9
I

2Jll6.llO

-

360.10

(111)£!0

935.20
726.20
1297.60
430.70
2417.30
1332.00
275.90
889.70
1392.60
522.80
184.80
283.80
1355.50
lOH.60
159.10
1767.70
2153.80
595.50
683.80
776.20
1393. IO
732.70
952.60
533.70
230."10
19'17.10
267.70
1000.70
790.40
216.50
462.50
2158.00
1424.00
1354.10
1153.70

'.W>.00

-

-

12
5
13
2
7
2
l
19
10
2

10
6
12
2
13
7

19
11
3

-

-

5
4
2
8
11
6
1
3
7
4
9
3
1
13
2
6
3
1
4
6
9
12
10

-

9
5
l
7
19
5
1
1
5
3
6
2
2
14
3
4
1
1
6
4
15
15
12

5
6
I

-

-

7
25
7
2

5
3

7
4
3
16
2

4
l

-

7

3

14
17
13

~

IJ'I

~

601.t!iO

---

390.00
445 .00
35.00
655.00
130.00
35.00
1100.00
470.00
105.00

175.00
140.00
70.00
280.00
410.00
235.00
35.00
105.00
245.00
H0.00
340.00
105.00
35.00
455.00
105.00
210.00
105.00
35.00
H0.00
235.00
340.00
470.00
375.00

~

Vl

V'!

No.

Mt.. mhcr'

205 Traver ..............................29i
206 Mt. Jackson ··············-··-···295
207 Silver Gate ......................296
208 Dunsmuir ..........................297
209 Liberty -··-············-·········299
210 Redlands ...........................300
211 Ontario ............................301
212 Santa Lucia ...................... 302
213 Porterville ........................ 303
214 R eedley ............................304
215 Azusa ................................305
216 Ashlar ··················-········ ..306
217 Santa Monica ..................307
21 8 Monrovia •.........................308
219 Delano ..............................309

149
117
1259
257
385
509
539
164
511
160
348

220 Sisson ······-···········-·········310
221 Los Banos -·········-··-········312
222 Tehachapi ···- ····-···········313
223 T emescal ..........................31 i
224 Norwalk ··--···-···-··-·····315
225 Sanger ······-·······-·········-316
226 Fallbrook - ···-··-·············317
227 Emmanuel ........................ 318
228 Hollenbeck ······-·····-········319
229 South Gate ·····-·--··········320
230 Alisa) -···-·-····--··········321
231 Alhambra ..........................322

Hl9

Lod11,•

232 Whittie.r ---···-·-····-·····323
233 Corona ....••...........•............32i
234 Consuelo ······-···-·······---325

235 Nttdlea ---·-····-.326
S27
236 Lcmg 8-:h
_.sa
217Rda d

.. ..._
all ·-------··----"3
a
I
st

H2 Am

243 Covina -···--·····-········--·..334
2H West Gate ···········-·:.......- 335
245 Fruitvale ············-········ ... 336
246 Carquinez ........................337
247 San Jacinto ......._ ...........338
248 Fullerton ..........................339
249 Oxnard ·······-····-·············.341
250 San Fernando ..................343
25 1 Starr King ........................3-H
152 Brentwood .........................345
253 Palo Alto ··········· -······· ...346
254 McKinley ..........................347
255 San Bernardino ..............3i8
256 Sequoia ..................... .......3i9
257 Palestine ..........................351
258 Sunset ..............................352
259 Pinole -················-····- ...353
260 Presidio ............................35i
261 Hollywood ........................355
262 Mill Valley ........................356
263 Buena Park ·-······-···········357
264 Golden State ..................358
265 Loyalton ············ - -·-···359
266 San FrancisC<>-V ictory ....360
267 Fort Bragg ·············-·······.361
268 Charity .............................362
269 Berkeley -··--··--············363
270 Willits --·········-··.. ····-··365
271 Las Palmas ·····-······-·····.366
272 Sou.th Pasadena _ ..·-·······367
273 Unity ·-····--------···········368
274 Ocean Park ......................369
275 Amity ................................370

337
376
339
255

146
200
282
446
340
174
92
75 1

506
178
63&
814
443
356
343
625
756
119

•
140
SJO

1215
782
184
116
39&
45 1
753
515
15 1
770
498
957
966
4 75
301
182
432
1244
442
365
627
93
494
156
179
597
151
1067
592
584
516
373

Chatter'
(.csuetl

Prg:rcc

1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
189 1
1892
1892
1892
lll92
1893
1&93
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1197
llP7

80
50
150
50
125
75
75
75
50
75
115
55
125
100
100
50
75
75
75
11 5
75
75
50
100
100
75
100
100
115
90

1897

Fees

Affil.
f'cu

1.00
5.00

-

--

- -

15 .00

--

2.00

1.00
2.00

-

-

5.00
5.00

-

25.00

- -

-

G. L .
!nit.

p3,.,cd

R:.ii1<"d

P.r Capl12

Contrih.

15
18
15
15
12
15
12
15
15
15
16
15
15
18
18
12
18
18
15
12
12
15
12
15
18
12
18
16

i
I
16
2
13
8
13

3
I
13
3
9
II
12
2
8
4
7

5
2
Ii
I
16

493.80
380.20
41 84.50
8 14.50
1295.30
1683.00
1795.60
544.90
1701.70
526.80
1137.40
1117.90
1239.70
111 9.00
835.20

140.00
35.00
760.00
70.00
530.00
305.00
625.00
105.00
280.00
1·40.00
2-!5 .00
235.00
2 10.00
390.00
270.00
35.00
I 05.00
70.00
340.00
1060.00
70.00
140.00
105.00
295 .00
2 10.00
95.00
920.00
690.00
535.00
365.00
140.00

15

3
8
4
7
6
6
9
7
1
3
2
9
24
2
4
3
7
6
2
22
19
11
9

1
2
9
26
I
i

3
4
5
2
17

15

9
6

H

11

18
Z7

..

12.GO

JI
.J

:za

100

J6
IS

"

5JJO

25.00

.

«s

75

--

115

165
100
50

iOO
100
125
100
65
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
100
125

JOO
100
125

50

-

5.00

-

10.00

12
15
18
18
12
15
12
25

-

20

10.00

15
15
12
15
15
18
18
20
15
18
15
18
15
18
12
18

5 .00

10.00

1.00
10.00

-- 20.00
15.00

--

10.00

- -

100
75
100

-5.00
--

75
75
80
115
100
115
100

5.00
1.00
5.00
JO.()()

--l.00

..

19
20
8
2
3
11
16
34
13
3
22
6

43
13
9
8
3
2
23
14

30
5
1

18

3
5
12

12
18
15
16
15
15
18

5
7
26
7
9
11
2

24

13

22

..
16

.. .. -- . ..
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
19lXI
1901
1982
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1901
1901
1901
1901
1901
1905
1905
1905
1905
!905
1905

7
12
II

1.00
25.00

125
125

14
15
2
9
4
8
8
9
9
12
I
2
7
22
I
6
2
2
5
I

5

15
16
16

75

M •.:n1bcu

fhl('t.

..J

~

Ul

0\

S60.00
II·

,
I

.J

s

lt
21
11
4
2
12
13
29
13
4
22
10
38
14
5
7
3

I
22
13
18
7
1
2
2
11

\'i

2
18

22
14
4
2
14
12
26
II
4
15
12
34
11
9
7
4
3
16
11
17
9
1
i
1

5

9
7

8
27
8
8
10
i

3
25
6
9
7
6

1589 .70
522.80
602.90
1937.60
5 13.00
3536.40
1941.60
1940.00
1691.20
1223.10

7\5.00
&50.00
390.00
70.00
130.00
4 10.00
660.00
1325.00
480.00
105.00
795.00
260.00
1630.00
455.00
425.00
280.00
105.00
70.00
855.00
540.00
1150.00
175.00
60.00
130.00
175.00
420.00
200.00
245.00
935.00
2i5.00
.340.00
385.00
70.00

.t>.
Ul
~

Lodge

No.

276 le Progres de J'Oceanle.... 371
277 Gardena ·······--···············-372
278 W est Los Angeles ·····-···373
279 Jewel ····--····-··-··-- .371
280 Richmond -···-········-··-··.375
281 Francis Drake ·····-··········.376
282 Artesia ···········-·····-········-377
283 Mizpah ···········--·············378
284 Fillmore ·-····-········- ···379
285 Huntington Bea ch ..........380
286 Oceanside ·······-··········- .381
287 Highland Park ................382
288 Oros! --······················-····.383
289 El Centro ..........................381
290 Dinuba ·-··························.385
291 Coalinga ·-·······················387
292 P arnassus ·······-········--···388
293 Palos V erdes ....................389
294 Imperial ·- ·························390
295 East Belt -···- ·················391
296 West Lake ·······-···--····....392
297 Balder - ·-·-··-··-······....393
298 University -----·············394
299 Turlock -····-··-······-·······395
300 Apollo - -····-··------····396
301 Rising Light ······-··-·······.397
302 Fraternity ·······-······-······.399
303 Burlingame ···--···-·····-···<f()()
304 Bay View ··········· - - -101
305 Brawley ________402
306 Y erba Buena _____ 403
404
'Jm Glendora
405
308 .......

... ..

.,

...

JIJ Charter Rock -·-··-···----410

311 Perm -···-····· · -·-···----411
315 Calexico ·-··············-·········412
316 Arlington -·······- - ··········--1 14
317 Silver Trowel ···-·-·-··-415
318 Lindsay ·-·- ····-·····-·-····416
319 Oovls ·- ·······-·················417
320 Elysian ··········-····- ············118
321 Upland ·················-···········419
322 Kerman ............................420
323 Inglewood ........................121
321 Eagle Rock ......................422
325 York ·-····-·························123
326 Exeter ..............................121
327 Holtville ·······················- --425
328 Midway ............................426
329 Chino Valley ..................127
330 S an Dimas -·····················.428
331 Pittsburg ..........................129
332 McC!oud ·----·················.430
333 Alpha -·········-·······-·········431
331 Hammonton ·······-········-···433
335 Maricopa - ··············-···-··434
336 Fa irmount ·-- ··············-···135
337 Claremont ---·········-·····436
338 Lancaster ..........................137
339 Tyriao ·······---·····-··········139
340 Standard - ·········-···-··-···410
341 C.Oronado -·-·····················11 I
342 Blackmer ..........................+t2
313 Schofield ............................ 443
344 Carpinteria ......................114
315 Wilshire ···················-····.415

Mcmbera

691
512
192
197
447
HI
246
374
236
340
535
595
1'18
505
291
386
692
695
142
122
743
484
508
424
440
976
425
663
683
245
884
281
570

ass

•

6ff

272

152
140
292
424
2 14
570
411
282
147
766
511
356
233
151
466
232
176
35 1
101
5 17
109
198
117
192
567
229
345
397
1171
313
139
189

Charter
!..sued

De ire•
Feea

A f!il.
Feu

1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909

175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100
75
75
100
65
125
75
100
100
125
125
50
100
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
75
100
110
105
125

10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

UI09

••ao
Nio
1910

1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
191 2
191 2
1912
19 12
19 13
19 13
1913
19 13
19 13
1913
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914

125

-5.00

--

25.00
1.00

----

10.00

--

-

5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00

-1.00

5.00

-5.00-

-25.00

--5.00
100

"M

:g;

7S

S.00

50
50
100
125
50
80
150
75
75
125
100
100

3.00
5.00

so
75
50
65
55
75
50
75
50
50
100
75
115
75
75
100
150
140
50
125

-

10.00

--

50.00
3.00

--

25.00

--

---

- --

- -

1.00

---

-

-5.00

25.00

C. L.
Due•

l nit .

Paascd

Rai ocd

Per Capita

15
16
17
12
12
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
20
18
12
15
15

10
22
8
6
3
15
8
2
4
7
10
12
2
3

7

8
22
12
4
8
9
9
2
1
7
II
10
3
3
3
1
11
22
2
4
4

2295.10
17 18.30
1636.10
663.10
1176.90
1165.90
827.90
1223.70
784.80
11 26.50
1773.40
1968.40
485.50
1665.60
947.80
1274.50
2290.90
2323.80
464.70
406.00
2112.10
1609.00
1635.60
1378.70
1433.10
3186.90
1415.20
2142.90
2293.30
810.30
2944.40
960.20
1171.00
aJ5.ASO
ZIG.al

IS
18
15
15
15
18
15
16
15
15
18

21
6
3
4
13
9
2
1
7
to
6
2
3
1
I
12
20
3
3
3
8
4
9
8
14
4
5
15

2
14
18
1
3
6
6
5
10
7
14
6
7
17

11

18
18
12
12
JI

16

1
ZI

3
10
9
14
6
9
14
6
17
8
I
20

12

IS

II

II

Ts
ta

5\1

18
18
18
15
18
15
20
15
12
15
15
15
15
12
18
16
15
16
15
15
16
15
18
15
15
12
20
15
15
15
16
15

2
2
1
7
1
14
9
5
3
12
8
8

14

..

5
17
5

JJ
JO
8

-

5
I
5
12
7
10
3
7
2
2
3
7
22
8
6
4
8
20
5
11

,,
\

-

"2

-

1
10
10
7
4
2
6
10
5
7
2
10

1
1
8
2
18
6
4
3
13
11
6
1
2
5
17
5
9
2
12

-

-

1
9
1
22
9
1

5
3
11

18
8
7
3
9
15
6
II

1
1
15
27
9
9
4
9
14
5
II

M c mbtr!
Contrib.

.:..

U1

00

375.00
795.00
355.00
210.00
130.00
550.00
280.00
70.00
140.00
245.00
500.00
420.00
70.00
105.00
70.00
590.00
655.00
35.00
105.00
210.00
210.00
175.00
375.00
270.00
515.00
210.00
270.00
595.00
165.00
480.00
315.00

2IO.JJD
dJOllO

MO.!IO

503.60

70.00

461.70
9 10.50
1363.80
703.60
1878.90
1347. 30
933.70
49 1.80
2536.40
1688.90
11 79.30
775.30
503.30
1530.70
798.00
597.80
116 1.20
346.90
172 1.90
351.80
651.20
1353. 10
653.10
1931 .50
770.80
1114.00
1321.10
3834.20
1072.00
468.10
1600.50

95.00
35.00
295.00
35.00
565.00
340.00
200.00
105.00
470.00
330.00
280.00
200.00
35.00
200.00
195.00
270.00
375.00
105.00
270.00
70.00
70.00
105.00
295.00
820.00
305.00
210.00
190.00
380.00
700.00
250.00
435.00

.:..

~

AB11.
f ee•

Charter

Dt1ru

No.

M embert

h aued

fC'tl

3i6 La Puente ........................+t6
3i7 Torrance -························+t7
348 Mount Dtablo ·············-···+t8
3i9 Park ·---·--··················- +t9
350 Van Nuys -··-······-·······<f50
351 MontebeJlo ··············-······151
352 San Pasqual - -···-···152
353 Crocker -···············-···········•5-t
35-'I Golden West ....................455
355 Ramona ···-······-···············<f57
356 Henry S. Onne ..................-158
357 Riverbank ........................159
358 Mount Oso ......................460
359 Argonaut ···-······-·············461
360 Paul Revere ····-·-·············i62
361 Morgan Hill ·-··-···············163
362 Alta Vista ....................... :464
363 Center ................................165
364 Libertas ............................466
365 Culver City ...................... -'167
366 Rockridge ..........................468
367 Yorba Linda ....................469
368 Lincoln ..............................170

251
602
-164
409
1153
732

100
110
75
100
125
100
115
75
75
100
125
75
80
115
100

369 Delta ·······-·················-···-171
370 Maui -································172
371 Blythe ·········-·····················173
372 America ............................175
373 Coachella ···········-·············176
37i Temblor ............................i77
J7S Thouaand Oab ................i78
~ Galdm Rule ---···--479

506

1914
1914
1914
191-1
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
191 8
1919
1920
1920
1920

50

-

1920
1020

75
75

5.00

Lod&e

tllO

I'

38 I Albert Pike ........................484
382 Chowchilla ···········-········-.485
383 Caledonia ..........................486
384 Vallejo ···············-·············487
385 Patterson ..........................188
386 East Bay ............................489
387 Corcoran ..........................490
388 Woodstock ......................191
389 Garvanza ..........................492
390 Atascardcro ···-·················493
391 Acorn ·················--·-·······-~
392 Lebanon ··············-············495
393 Fremont ········-·····-···········497
394 Stockton ............................198
395 Capital City ......................499
396 Roosevelt ···········-············.500
397 Westwood ........................501
398 Harbor ..............................502

399 Point ···········-··-··-············.503
400 Seaside ..............................50-1
401 Silver Cord ......................505
402 Mount Olive ....................506
403 El Segundo ·······-··············.507
404 Joppa ................................508
405 Benjamin Franklin ............509
406 Cupertino ......................... .510
407 Sunnyvale .......................511
408 Palms -········-··········-······.512
109 Cahuenga ·······-···············-.513
410 Argonne ·········-··············511
411 Vermont Square ..............515
-112 Taft .................................516
113 Mount Vernon ................5 17
41-1 La Jolla ···················-··-··.5 18
115 Euclid ...............................519

576
6 16
538
551
593
152

360
370
605
162
238
548
712
426
428
191
345
202
175
436
251
115
506
702

•

10.00
10.00
10.00

--

10.00
10.00
12.00

-6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

75
80
100
100
115
50
100
100
50
75
115
75

i•
1920

100

172
555
393
17-i
323
139
425
315
151
65 1
424
534
195
643
207
263
598
328
561
583
933
508
100
327
240
-'1 51

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922

75
100
75
75
75
75
75
75
75
• 80
100
100
80
100
100
85
75
75
125
75
125
100

548
337
-'1 58
312
203
328
377

-

75

238

509

J.00

50
100
75
115
125
100
100
100
50
80
115
100

-

10.00

-

-

Dues

I nit.

P.. s~t"d

RJ.itr d

18
15
16
15
15
16
15
12
12
18
15
15
18
18
12
15
18
15
15
20
18
15
18
15
16

16
22
16
6
30
14
8
11
6
15
6
4
6
2
3
6
2
5
12
13
-1
2

13
17
10
1
30
14
7
IO
7
12
5

21
24
17

s

6
3
5
6
5
8
12
18
-1
4
12
II

14
i
I
7
8
10

I

37
14
11
9
8
14
10
4
8
3
8
4
6
10
11
18
4
4
10

11
I
5
6
7

7
8
8

G. L.
Pu Capita

Membcra
Contrt'b.

878.30
2033.10
1544.50
1331.30
3819.40
2408.10
1897.10
2003.40
1776.60
1829.60
1935.00
501.40
1204.70
12 15.80
1972.90
544.00
798.40
1824.80
2368.10
1438.30
1384.80
630.40
1151.40
1685.90
668.60
589.90
14-11.00
816.70
464.00

585.00
945.00
610.00
210.00
1150.00
590.00
305.00
385.00
2 10.00
550.00
310.00
140.00
210.00
70.00
105.00
21 0.00
70.00
175.00
420.00
530.00
140.00
70.00
490.00
140.00
35.00
2-'15.00
280.00
450.00

5.00

15

-

18
15
15
18
12

-

-

6
12

4
10

-

18

3

3

'l

793.'\0

-

12

2

3

l

SM.70

70.00

18
16
18
15
15
16
15
16
15
18
16
18
15
15
12
15
15
18
15
16
15
15
18
15
18
18
18
15
15
16
18
15
18

15
6
IO
3
3
12
2
5
3
5
11
6
19
4
1

15
9
7
2
3
9
2
6
5
4

17

7

6
6
IO
14
21
12
4
3
11
2-'I
9
5
8
5
4
2
4
9

1858.70
1316.30
592.90
1065.00
467.70
141 0.10
1019.IO
498.80
2 151.40
Ii 11.90
1774.70
65 1.60
2 153.40
697. 10
868.60
191l3.80
1080.30
1855.60
1964.60
3086.40
1697.20
340.00
1076.90
8 17.70
1573.00
1660.50
1803.40
111 8.50
1500.00
1031.10
668.00
1088.80
1251.30

525.00
235.00
350.00
130.00
105.00
420.00
70.00
175.00
l05.00
175.00
4 10.00
210.00
665.00
175.00
35.00
2-!5.00
280.00
400.00
840.00
690.00
-150.00
175.00
140.00
100.00
1125.00
270.00
425.00
105.00
210.00
2 10.00
70.00
225.00
280.00

--

-

16.00
10.00
5.00
I 0.00

-1.00
--

10.00

-

I0.00

-10.00
15.00
10.00

-

-

-

1.00
25.00

-5.00

-

I0.00

5.00
5.00
15.00

10.00

--

8
IO
19
19
10
5
3
10
29
7
3
10
6
6
2

5
8

IO

6
13
6

-

2

11

5
4
3
13
2
6
5
7
8
6
16
4
3
4
7
14
11
17
12
1
5
8
35
11
5
10
i

5
i
4
13

~

0\

0

\i

~

0\

No.

Members

416 Ionic ................................. .520
417 Piedmont ..........................521
418 Sunrise ..............................522
419 Bellflower --------·-···········-··.523
420 Catalina Island -------·----··.524
421 George Washington ....... .525
422 Bay City ------------···············.526
423 Covenant ..........................527
424 Beverly Hills ....................528
425 Loyalty ..............................529
426 Sun Garden ..................... .530
427 Alexandria ....................... .531
428 Smyrna ............................. .532
429 Azure ............................... .533
430 Forest Hill ........................ 534
431 Alexander Hamilton ....... .535
432 Seal Rock --------------·---···-.536
433 Utopia ................................537
434 Ascot ·-------------·········-·--------.538
435 Belvedere ·---·--·--------·-------.539
436 Queen Beach ....................540
437 Henry Morse Stephens....541
438 North Hollywood ........... .542
439 Signal ................................543
440 Glendale ........................... .544
441 Jonathan ............................545
442 San Gabriel ......................546
443 Arcadia .............................547
444 Triangle ............................548
445 Justice ---···------------·----······.549
446 Seaport -----··--···········-···---.550
447 Lakeahore ···-·--·----551
448 Semper Virena ..-.--552
5St
555
-W...Plae

1178
245
295
647
138
431
430
265
564
662
542
180
207
385
197
302
196
648
346
198
191
320
1064
546
823
192
591
601
339
394
222
270
351

Lodge

.......

UldiUi

• =

.558
454 Craftsmen --------==-----559
455 Plymouth ··--··-····----560
i56 East San Diego...........- ...561
457 Pyramid ---······-·-······--.562
458 South Park ··-·-·---··········.563
459 Foothill ···-·····-···-··-·-··---·..564
460 West Adams ·------····--·---·.565
461 James A. Garfield..............566
462 Searchlight ............- ..........567
i63 Park Boulevard ···-······---.568
464 Chateau Thierry ..............569
465 Military Service ............. .570
466 Francis K. Shattuck...- .....571
467 James Madison ·······--····.572
468 Hillcrest ···············---·-·····.573
469 S. W. Hackett........... __.57i
470 Fort Crook .......................575
471 El Cajon Valley ... __________576
4S3 Point PlrmfD

387
103

472 Sunnyside ·······-······-·-----.577
473 Progressive ________________.578
474 Warren G. Harding..........579
475 Santa Maria ------····------·-.580
476 Security ............................581
477 Rialto ·----······-·-··---.... .582
478 Wasco ---·--··--·--------..... .583
479 Harding -------------··-······.584
480 Manchester ......................585
i8 I Garden Grove ..................586
482 Valley Forge· --------587
483 El Sereno --·-···--·---·-----·-.588
484 Kauai ·---············----....589
485 Compass ·······--··----··--..590
486 Escalon ------··-··--·--·....591

3-fl

368
399
866
323
408
1014
346
235
442
419
360
312
233
354
76
610
205
551
416
501
651
123
409
320
351
320
349
420
408
442
124
342
168

Charter
lasuc d

Degree
Fee•

Alfi!.
Fees

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

215
80
100
175
100
100
100
100
125
150
80
75
70
100
100
I 00
100
100
100
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
100

25.00
5.00

--

-10.00

---

10.00

--

20.00
5.00

-

-

10.00
5.00
10.00

----5.00
5.00

--5.00
25.00

--10.00
I0.00
S.00

Dues

lnit.

Pas'<:d

Raiaed

20
18
18
15
15
15
18
18
15
18
15
18
15
15
18
20
18
16
15
20
15
16
20
18
15
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
18

57
4
4
21
3
4
5
4
10
37
6
8
7
18
2
9
1
8
5
6
5
2
32
12
14

32
4
2
7
1
6
6
2
8
32
4
8
8
13
3
6
2
8
4
6
5
3
28
11
14

34
7
3
12

-

-

20
18
9
4
2
6

19
15
7
6
2
9
8

lO
1-f

9

T

so

80

-5.00

15

1923

55

2..00

12

1923

100

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

125

100
90

--- ,.
-5.00

75

- -

100
100
100
100
125
110

12.00

100
100
100

75
100

75
130
100
100
125
100
125
80
100
115
80
115
125
120
100
125

-5.00

-75.00

---

10.00
10.00
5.00

- --

--

5.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00

--5 .00

5.00
20.00
1.00

---

75

10.00

115
50

-- -

10
9

-

9

1l

7

16
15
12
16
15
16
20
18
16
15
16
18
15
15
20

3
6
22
6

7
17
7
5
7
10
9

5

9

-

15

7

15
20
15
15
12
15
18
15
18
18
15
15
15
15
15
18
15

6
19
3
7
23
2
8
16
8

11
4
24
13
10
12

7
2

-

7
8
3

7
23
10
8
13
26
3
8
1
12
6
5
5
4
25
9
19
1
16
12
7
4
2

2

"33
6
22
11
8
21
4
5

7
8
7

5
1
6
1
8
4
16
4
8
22
2
9
12
9
12
2
21
9
10

7
11
4

G.L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrib.

4010.40
813.60
972.60
2168.50
456.10
1429.40
1428.10
863.70
1866.40
2250.20
1798.70
611.40
697.90
1314.30
658.10
999.80
650.80
2116.90
1140.30
670.40
628.80
1051.80
3559.90
1820.60
2759.60
634.60
1988.80
2025.00
1138.40
1301.00
738.60
906.10
1183.70
1292.20
»ZIJD

2195.00
165.00
140.00
760.00
105.00
140.00
200.00
140.00
400.00
1395.00
210.00
280.00
245.00
705.00
70.00
350.00
35.00
280.00
175.00
260.00
200.00
70.00
1220.00
445.00
650.00

..°'
N

700.00
730.00
315.00
140.00
70.00
210.00

..

35400
MD.J10

~2

4
2
6
31
10

7
24
2
2
6
6

7
5
1
5
1

7
2
19
3

5
20

3
12
16
9
21
I
23

7
14
9
9

3

\131..70

1."5.0t>

1202.60
1331.40
2906.40
1086.30
1348.60
3378.50
1128.40
777.60
1455.50
1393.50
1207.70
1031.40
770.90
1184.90
252.80
2018.50
681.90
1869.00
1366.30
1653.50
2206.70
406.30
1342.40
1093.40
1181.00
1096.70
1155.40
1444.10
1345.70
1469.50
437.20
1155.60
563.40

130.00
210.00
895.00
210.00
270.00
695.00
295.00
175 .00
245.00
350.00
340.00
175.00
315.00
295.00
210.00
865.00
130.00
245.00
805.00
70.00
305.00
560.00
280.00
460.00
140.00
965.00
455.00
350.00
420.00
245.00
70.00

.

w
°'

Cbarttr
lsaucd

Degree
Fee•

.Affil.

Fcu

Dues

I nit.

Passed

Raised

G. L.

Members

Per Capita

Mcmbcra
Contrib.

487 Tujunga ---------·······-----592
488 All States ···--··········---······.593
489 Service ···-····-··-················.594
490 Alexander Graham Bell ..595
491 Guardian ·······-········-·-··596
492 Pearl Harbor ······-···-·····.598
493 Carmelita ·······-·······--·······.599
494 Lynwood -·-----···········600
495 Grizzly ··--···--··-·-····-··-···--601
496 Melrose ···········-············----·602
497 Dimond ............................603
498 Jubilee ···············-······-·······604
499 Glassr-11 Park ···········-··-···605
500 Sojourner ···-··········-···-·--··6(!7
50 I Granada . ··················-·······608
502 Provident ···················--····609
503 Elmhurst ··················-··-···610
504 Canoga ···········-·················611
505 Temple City ......................6 12
506 Three Pillars ....................613
507 Larchmo nt ·······-···············6H
508 Hemet ·······-·-············-···615
509 R. E. Dolley ·······-·····-····616
510 Big Bear ···················-··--617
511 Southland ·····-·-·····-·········618
512 Neptune ···············- ······-···619
513 Point Loma ···········-···········620
514 The Gardens ···········-··-···621
515 Atwater ···············-··--····622
516 Menorah ·······················--623
517 Fortitude ···-·······················624
518 Angeles Mesa ···-······---625
519 Chula Vi.ta - - - - 6 2 6

364
539
932
278
1012
620
378
561
124
258
278
433
409
309
819
505
283
445
567
458
41 0
215
252
159
367
321
730
528
382
1136
215
733
692

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

125
100
100
75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100
75
75
115
100
100
100
135
100
100
100
90
100
75
100

5.00

5
16
20
7
26
15
3
15
2
6
1
7
9

6
14
16
7
30
17
10
14
1
6
2
8
8
8
9
11
4
25
11
9
7
12
10
4
11
12
13
14
6
46

4
12
17
10
29
15
12
18
1
8
2
15
9
11
11
14
6
23
13
12
9
12
9
4
10
11
13
15

250.00
660.00
800.00
270.00
1110.00
525.00
105.00
550.00
70.00
285.00
95.00
270.00
340.00
350.00
495.00
455.00
70.00
1100.00
410.00
270.00
190.00
305.00
445.00
175.00
525.00
315.00
385.00
445.00
225.00

39

5

4
17

306

1925

JS
22
5

1199.70
1791.00
3 105.50
931.50
3388.30
2073.20
1262.50
1871.90
393.40
854.90
902.60
1435.80
1359.20
1038.80
2708.30
1694.60
945.90
1531.30
1892.90
1529.50
1366.40
833.90
842.80
534.40
1240.50
1081.40
2422.90
1733.90
1272.00
3849.70
709.30
2412.70
2332.70

9301

75
175
75
125
125
75

15
15
16
18
15
15
20
18
15
20
18
15
15
20
18
18
18
16
15
15
15
18
12
20
18
16
15
15
15
16
18
18
15
JfS

231

19216

11.5

No.

Lodiie

!JWlla

I

a as
D3 lagleslde

Pmk

..

.,

JOO
90

JOO

.
.
- - ••
630

223

1926

90

524 Benevolence ··-·····--·-631

262
821
761
283
630
296
451
216
686
152
2 19
350

1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928

100
105
100
74
75
100
100
75
175
100
100
75
100
125
125
100
100
75
125
100
125
125
125
100
125
90
115
90
125
65

525 Normal Height! -············632
526 Poinsettia ·········-·-··-·····633
527 Victorville ···············-·······634
528 Riverside ···-·-·············- --635
529 John Marshall ···-·········-636
530 Palisades ······-·······--···637
531 India n Rock ....................638
532 Composite ··-···············-···639
533 Veritas ·······-··-·················640
534 James A. Foshay ..........._.641
535 La Cumbre ···············-·······642
536 Alta Loma ·······-··-··-·-····643
537 Lomita ···········-··········-·······644
538 A. P. E. lrwin. .......... - .......645
539 Metropolitan ....................646
540 H awthorne ........................647
Sil Damascus ···-·····················648
542 Florence ····---- ······-··-·····649
543 La Bn-a ···········-···············650
SH Menlo Park ......................65 1
515 Crescenta VaUey ............652
546 Fontana - ··················-···653
547 Jordan ·····-··-·-···········654
518 Monte Vista ·······-···········655
519 Citro! ·······-···········- ·········656
550 John D . Spreckels..............657
551 Livingston ···············-·······658
552 La Habra ..........................659
553 Baldwin Park ..................660

554 M alta ···--·········-··-···········66 1
555 Henry Kn.o x ......................662
556 OJai ········--···-······-··-·-···663
557 Kaweah ···············-·············665

40i
385
262
183
585
733
125
262
352

608
112
425
862
263
681
2 19
262
333
264
427
180
138

75
125
75
50

--5.00

-15.00

--10.00

-5.00
1.00

-- - -

10.00
10.00
15.00

--

10.00
5.00

--

--5.00
--

10.00

-

--

25.00
5.00

-1.00

-- ••
;a

10.00

---

--

-5.00

-5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

---5.00

-5.00
5.00

--

10.00

--

25.00

--

--

--

10

12
13
2
28
11
7
4
8
12

5
15
9
11

12

5
39
i
8
19
JO
6

7

.,

18
6

.,

IOD'.$0

7
4

6

na.30

5
18

855.90
2734.20
2520.60
966.60
2139.10
99 1.90
1498. 10
7 13.50
2362.80
508.70
730.10
1174 .40
1314.00
1274.60
868.70
619.60
1970.70
2135.60
li03.30
871.30
1198.60
2018.10
1367.50
1420.10
2912.JO
880. 10
2280.50
723.80
902.60
1149.90
874.30
1406.00
611.70
153.80

~1

20

6

18
15
18
18
18
15
15
18
15
18
15
18
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
16
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
15
15
15
15

12
15
13
H
21
8
7
1
38
6
8
13
10

5
5
3
20
29
5
4

12
13
ll
17
24
12
19
5
14

17
3
8
7
2

15
12
11
21
8
6
1
31
5
3
7
9
4
1
8
21
30
4
5
14
17
10
15
28
to
19
3
10
17
5
5
7
I

H
11
28
9
10
2
30
6
3
6
8
5
5
8
19
27
5
4
11
15
10
12
32
10
15
3
Ii
17
5
7
7
2

nHM

""'
°'
""'

1550.00
190.00
305.00

...

.,...

740.00

'1\0.li>
"45.00
650.00
180.00
5 15.00
810.00
280.00
270.00
60.00
1680.00
235.00
280.00
530.00
350.00
200.00
200.00
105.00
700.00
1040.00
200.00
M0.00
520.00
530.00
385.00
595.00
940.00
HS.00
700.00
175.00
490.00
670.00
105.00
405.00
315.00
70.00

""'
°'
VI

No.

Mcmbcu

Cbarur
laaued

Dea«<
Fcca

558 Reseda ···-··-····-··-- ··666
559 Meridian ···-·-···-··-·---- --667
560 San Gorgonlo ···--···-·-·····668
561 John P. Jarman ····---·······669
562 Greenleaf -----·-·----·····--------·670
563 Sao Clemente ·-··--·-···-·--··--671
564 Laguna Beach ______ 672

771
518
267
301
868
151
198
357
528
526
422
420
556
152
263
165
437
127
160
475
231
335
277
86
458
423
211
219
263
203
357
2SO
177
S75

1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
19H
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1"9

120
100

lod&c

565 Far West ·····-·--- ····------673
566 Los Cerritos -·-·-··-··--·-674
567 Modesto ···--·-········-- ··675
568 Willow Glen _______676
569 Liberal Arts ·······--·········-67 7
570 Altadcna ··········-··-·-···· ···678
571 Canby Cross -·-·-···-······-679
572 Carmel -·-··-····-··------····680
573 Dos Palos ···----······-··-··-·· ·681
574 Barstow ···-··-······-·- ·682
575 Redwood Empire ______683
576 Trona ············--···------·--68i
577 Sao Marino ·--- - ---685
578 Albany ···-·--·······--- ·-686
579 Vista - ·-------- -687
580 Oildale -·-···-·-··--·--·-- -···688
581 Pohona ···----· -·········689
582 San Carlos ·-··············---690
583 Indian Wells Valley.._ •..691
584 Travelers ······················-··692
585 Palm Springs ··--··--·----693
586 Sao Antonio ···- - - - -69i
_.69S
587 Meudell
696
588 Crossroada
697
589 Saint Elmo
691
S90 Wm. D. Seephene

....
-·a -

.,...._
•

Ii

......
..
• -

no
""

StH Westc:hester _ _ _ _ _ 703

596 Orinda ·--····-··-·--·· ···70f
587 El Cerrito ···-········-··-······.705
598 Hunters Point N avaL...... 706
599 Lake Tahoe ·--·-- ·--··--707
600 Seafaring ······-··-··-········708
601 Lorenzo ·---·---··-·····-··----.709
602 Ana capa ···-----······--··- ···710
603 Rim of the World............ 711
604 Los Altos ·····-··--·-············.712
605 Castro Valley ·············-·--713
606 Blue Lakes ----···-·-······. 71i
607 Magnolia Park ----·-········715
608 Belmont Shore ·······--···.716
609 Wayfarer ·--------·--····-·····717
610 Sao Lorenzo V a lley ---....718
611 Estero ···-··········--··- ···--719
612 Mineral King ···-··-··-··--·.72 0
613 Home ·····--······----- -···721
614 George E. TutL-·-······-··- -722
615 Acalanes ·······-··- ······-····-723
616 San Ramon Valley ........ 724
617 Saint John's ····-····-----·-.725
618 Yucaipa ··-··········-······- ---726
619 Verdugo Hills ·······---·---127
620 Lakewood ··-·······-----7 28
621 Centennial ···-······-···-·-···729
622 Polaris ···-··-··-··-······-····-730
623 Two Rivers ············-···-·73 1
624 San Jua n ·······-···········- ···732
625 Golden Empire ···-··---- ---733
626 Kit Carson ·-·-·······-···------.734
627 Oasis of Mara...........___..7J5
628 Lemon Grove ....................736

2U

161
223
205
248
90
454
368
245
153
213
293

209
254
350
203
93
150
112
i60
168
185
163
225
181
102
237
153
152
185
207
Iii
186
118
384

1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
195 1
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
!95t
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954

75
75
100
100

75
75
175
75
115
125
115
65

75
100
65
100

Aff'il.
Fcea

Duea

lni1 .

Paued

IUiKd

-

18
15
12
15
15
16
18
15
18
15
18
20
15
16
15
18
12
18
15
18
12
15
15
12
18
17
15
20
16
18

48
14

42
M

8
8

IO

42
17
II

--

1.00
5.00
25.00

--

1.00
10.00

--

--

10.00
10.00

-1.00
3.00

-10.00

1.00

75

-

100
75

25.00
10.00

75
100
50
100
100
100
100
100
115

115
100
125
100

----

5.00
10.00
5.00

---10.00

--5.00
125
" -100
-10.00

80

75

100

75
100
100
100

75
100
~00

100
125
125
100
100

75
75
165
75
75

75
75
75
100
125
125
100
100
100
90
100
90
11 5

--

1.00
10.00
1.00

--

-

5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00

- -

---

1.00

-

---

10.00
15.00

--

----

---

10.00

- 10.00
10.00
I0.00

- -

10.00

IS

24

6
38
4
4
4
17
10
8
21

7

7

1
2
2

2

35
6

3
3
15

7
7

7
10
2
10
23

-

8
12
10
13
18
9

18

ta

18
18
15
18
18
16
15
18
15
15
18
18
18
16
15
16
15
20
16
18
20
18
18
15
20
18
18
15
16
15
15
12
15
20

4
17
9
12
17
5
1
3
2
19
2

5

3
3
12
6

If

3

3
11
4

14

15
20
16

7
25
6

3

3

13
5
8
8
2
16
15
1
8
10
9
12
12

9
6
11
9
2
16
15
1
8
9

I

7
13
16
6

"'

G. L.
Pu C.pita

Mcmbcu
Conuib.

2663.10
1734.60
890.30
1011.00
2959.10
507.70
656.80
1182.50
1784.80
1745.30
1419.60
1444.70
1843.90
502.30
868.00
548.20
1482.80
428.10
537.00
1591.60
779.30
1128.20
937.80
286.50
1550.10
IH2.30
698.30
733.50
892.30
692.60
1209.50
867.70
601.10
12lf.20

1910.00
540.00
375.00
315.00
1310.00
260.00
155.00
155.00
600.00
245.00
245.00
990.00
295.00
35.00
70.00
70.00
490.00
105.00
105.00
595.00
210.00
420.00
350.00
70.00
375.00
830.00

JS

17
IS

IS

ts

\'l

\6

15

\5
5
4

\560.70
755.90
694.50

7

838:40

3
25
26
13
13
10
17
13
20
17
6

308.00
1564.60
1287.50
846.50
540.90
734.90
1026.90
726.70
905.20
1197.10
689.60
306.60
522.00
372.30
1625.00
570.10
632.50
543.90
767.50
601.10
342.60
8 18.80
540.90
531.60
634.50
722.50
484.30
642.80
tlHO
1353.20

16
8
8

7

4
28
29
16
12
11
23
11
27
17
8
2
6
3
32
6

6
6
4
20
28
9
11
11
20
13
20
18
9
l
10
2
36
8

7

7

4
9
5
2
13

1

7

11
11
6
18
8
12

9
28

7
5
2
Ii
13
8
8
13
6
8
9
31

·~

11
I
39

5
8
1
9

7
2
13
12

11
10
15

5
9
6
27

~

0\
0\

305.00
420.00
400.00
i80.00
630.00

...

315.00

MalJO

635.00
530.00
280.00
270.00
140.00
1105.00
1040.00
670.00
445.00
410.00
855.00
435.00
995.00
620.00
280.00
95.00
210.00
105.00
1320.00
235.00
280.00
165.00
365.00
225.00
170.00
505.00
385.00
410.00
270.00
655.00
280.00
t20.00
315.00
1165.00

~

0\

'I

Lodge

No.

629 Hillsborough ·······-··-··-···737
630 Arvin ···-······-··········-·······738
631 La Canada ···············-·······739
632 Opportunity ·······-·-·······-·7i0
633 Tyre --··················-··-···-7i1
634 Morningside Park ....... - ...742
635 Oakwood -·-··············-····.7i3
636 San Leandro ···········-·······74i
637 Peninsula ··-·····················745
638 Soquel ···············-··-·-····-.746
639 Claude H. Morrison...- ...747
640 Highland ·······--·-····-748
641 Merced ···-··········-··---1i9
642 Mother Colony ···-··-····-·750
643 Hamilton ···-·····-··-····-751
644 Luther Biirbank ··········---152
645 Lawndale ···············-··----153
646 San Pablo ----·-·-···754
647 Golden Bowl ······--··---155
648 Clayton Valley ···--··-···756
649 Channel ·--·········-········-.757
650 West Covina ···············-···758
651 El Rancho --·················-759
652 Lakeside ----·······--760
653 Josiah W. Roller ........-761
654 Goastside --········-····J62
655 Arabic ·-······-··-···..763
656 Heritage -··-······_..76i
657 Dana R. Weller ·-···-·-··765
658 James H. Kew _ _ _ _766
659 Wm. Rhodes Hervey____ 767
_ _ _768
660 Zenith
661 Palmdale _ _ __.769
770
662 Lake Chabot
771
cm MJu1an. Bav

Member&

Charter
baued

Deiree
Feea

Mil.
Feea

Duea

lnit.

Paued

Raised

Per Capita

G. L.

Members
Contrib.

176
119
152
202
211
194
100
172
147
145
123
20i
139
158
142
181
191
118
172
247
108
184
199
99
177
112
154
134
132
151
138
221
215
118
173

1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957

100
100
125
115
125
115
150
100
100
80
115
75
90
75
100
75
100
75
100
75
80
115
100
100
100
100
HO
125
105
115
125
125
115
100
115

-

18
20
24
15
16
15
18
20
18
15
18
16
15
15
20
15
15
15
15
18
15
18
16
18
12
15
15
18
16
15
15
15
15
18
15

8
7
11
24
21
7
3
7
10
5
16
11
H
13
15
13
20
15
13
19
10
13
21
7
10
13
18
11
11
7
8
18

12
12

10
9
9
H
17
9
6
12
13
5
16
9
12
H
12
13
18
9
11
23
13
H
15
4
7
18
13
H
12
6
8
18
11
12
9

12
9
6
H
18
13
5
12
15
4
13
8
9
12
12
7
10
12
15
16
13
18
15
4
11
16
12
13
11
6
8
20
12
10
6

607.50
417.70
527.60
718.60
745.70
665.90
344.00
598.60
523.10
492.50
450.90
701.20
493.70
560.40
507.60
630.30
678.30
425.40
606.60
873.10
392.40
652.20
707.70
341.70
612.10
413.30
551.20
476.90
469.60
517.30
479.40
785.30
742.50
423.40
597.90

380.00
245.00
435.00
890.00
810.00
245.00
130.00
295.00
350.00
200.00
585.00
385.00
515.00
480.00
525.00
455.00
700.00
575.00
480.00
690.00
350.00
455.00
785.00
295.00
375.00
480.00
655.00
460.00
410.00
295.00
330.00
630.00
375.00
420.00
445.DO

1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1960
1961
1961
1961
1961
1961
1961
1962
1962
1962
1962
1953
1953
1958
1960

100
100
175
90
100
75
100
125
125
125
125
75
100
125
100
100
75
100
125
90
100
125
115
100
75
115
100
80
125
175
90
105
65
100
120
100
100
125
75
135

3
22
16
12
13
2
16
7
8
10
13
4
9
9
7
7
5
16
18
15
4
7
9
21
15
17
H
9
17
15
6
7
6
16
19
30
20
6
4

4
21
17
H
15
2
18
12
6
6
11
4
9
8
10
8
7
13
17
9
4
7
6
20
19
13
17
9
19
15
8
5
3
23
15
21
18
6
4

2
16
21
H
H
1
H
11
6
7
8
3
8

187.20
577.10
459.90
686.80
589.80
183.20
519.90
297.30
432.50
382.70
401.60
242.00
422.00
327.60
321.00
394.00
300.50
432.40
452.30
336.60
229.80
251.00
469.50
428.20
472.80
263.10
291.20
211.80
282.30
244.30
334.20
189.60
166.10
318.70
247.00
302.30
278.40
158.90
120.20

105.00
770.00
610.00
670.00
480.00
95.00
585.00
270.00
430.00
400.00
555.00
H0.00
365.00
365.00
270.00
270.00
175.00
585.00
680.00
575.00
H0.00
245.00
465.00
735.00
600.00
620.00
515.00
340.00
695.00
600.00
310.00
305.00
210.00
585.00
715.00
1100.00
975.00
535.00
415.00
300.00

54
158
123
196
166
54
143
81
125
109
113
70
120
92
90
110
86
118
121
92
66
71
135
lH
126
67
74
56
71
61
94
52
47
79
60
71
68
43
34
50
89
99
59
74
For Membership and Degree totals see page 79

664 Avenal --··--··-·-·····772
665 Tejon --·--·-··-······-··-773
666 Waikiki ··-······-····-··---114
667 San DieguJto ···-·············--775
668 East Whittier -·-······..776
669 Pinnacle --··-···--777
670 La Mirada ··-······-··-····J78
671 Five Points ...................... _779
672 Riviera ·······-·····--··-·····780
673 Rolling Hilla ··-···-··-······.781
674 Silverado ·······--···············782
675 Mojave -··-······-··-·········783
676 Leland Stanford ··-··-··--784
677 Paramount ·-·-····-···785
678 Rio Linda ·······-···---786
679 Westminster ···-··-·-·---787
680 Sierra ··-··-·-···-··-·········-788
681 Oak Plains ·······-······-·······789
682 Granada Hills -········-·---190
683 Gen. Henry H. Arnold....791
684 Millbrae ······-----·······792
685 Maya ------·-·-··--.793
686 Mt. Wilson -·---···-········794
687 American River --··········.795
688 Golden Valley ·······-·······796
689 Tila Pass ··············--·-··--797
690 Ashland ·······-·-··-·-········798
691 Bay Claire Vista ______ 799
692 Rio Hondo ·-··-·--··----800
693 Koolau ·--··---··-------·--··--801
694 Yucca Valley ··--··-·····--802
695 The Gabilan ···--·-······-803
696 Moreno Valley ···-·-·----··80i
697 Camellia --··--··-·---···-·-----.805
698 Simi Val1:fi ---··------806
699 Conejo V ey ·-,·-------807
700 Scepter ------·----·--808
701 Los Alamitos ·-·-··-·-----809
702 Victoria Palms ..........- ...810
703 WoodlandHills ···········-···811
Northern Calif. Research ............_
Southern Calif. Research .......____
El Camino Research ......·---·-·Central Calif. Research_ .•____

-

-

25.00

-

10.00
50.00
10.00

-

1.00

-

-

5.00
5.00

-

10.00
12.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

-

10.00
10.00
10.00

-

3.00
10.00
5.00

-

10.00

6.00
-

10.00

10.00
1.00
25.00
10.00
10.00

-

5.00
7.00

-

10.00
10.00
25.00

-

15.00
30.00

-

--

10.00

-

10.00

-

10.00

-

-

12
18
15
15
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
15
18
18
15
16
18
15
15
12
18
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
20
18
16
15
18
18
15
18
18
15
12
12
5
10

10

-

-

7
7

16
8
H
18
9
4
6
9
11
23
12
16
9
12
13
10
6
2
19
15
17
16
5

-

-

•

0\
00

•
°'

\0

470

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS--Continued

2 Western Star, Shasta, 1850. Consolidated with Clinton No. 119, as Western Star
No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings No. 4.
Jennings, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered. May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.
7 D avy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco No. 7,
Aug . 18. 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco. Charter revoked, Ma y 13. 1859.
8 Tuolumne, Sonora, 1850. Consolidated with Mount Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8. December 1876.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with Columbia No. 28, as Sonora No. 8, Dec.
12, 189 1.
Tuolumne. Sonora. Consolidated with George Washington No. 62, as Tuolumne
N o. 8. Sept. 15, 1919.
9 Marysville, Marysville, 1850. Consolidated wtih Corinthian No. 69, as Corinthian No. 9, Dec. 1874.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Yuba No. 39, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
11 Williamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November 1851.
Nashville. Nashville, Dispensa tion 1851, Charter never issued.
13 N evada, N evada City, 1851. Consolidated with Quitman No. 88, and Manzanita
No. 102, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
15 La Fayette. La Fayette, Ore., 185 1. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon,
November 1851.
16 Eureka, Auburn, 1851. Consolidated with Rising Star No. 83, as Eureka No. 16,
Sept. 2, 1919.
Pacific, Valparaiso, Chili, Dispensation 1853, Charter never issued.
25 Georgetown, Georgetown, 1853. Consolidated with Pilot Hill No. 160, as Georgetown N o. 25, D ecember 1898.
26 El Dorado, Placerville, 1853. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 151, as Palmyra
No. 26, O ct. 16, 1902.
Palmyra. Placerville. Consolidated with Mt. Zion No. 1Ii, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. II, 1911.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidated with Acacia No. 92, as Palmyra No. 26, Mar.
29, 1916.
Palmyra, Placerville. Name changed to El Dorado No. 26, Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne No.
8, Dec. 12, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Sprinqs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelumne. Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with C alavera s No. 78, as
Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13. 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell. 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Siskiyou No. 105, as St. John's No.
37. O ct. 11. 1876.
St. John's, Yreka. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8.
1924.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No.
9, June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San F ra ncisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
50 Forbestown, Forbestown, 1854. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as Forbestown No. 50, July 19. 1926.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered November 1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento. 1854. Charter surrendered May 10. 1856.
54 Saint James, Ja mestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
59 Gravel Range. Camptonville, 1855. Consolidated with Forest No. 66, as Gravel
Range No. 59, Sept 27, 1955.

471

62 George Washington, Chinese Camp. 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No 8
· '
as Tuolumne No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
6i Natoma, Folsom, 1855. Consolidated with Latrobe No. 189, as Natoma No 64
· '
Dl'cember 1884.
66 Forest, Allegheny, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, as Gravel
Range N o. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Cha rter surrendered May Ii, 1859.
69 Independent Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No 69
. '
May 2, 1855.
71
72
73
74
75
77
78

80

Corinthian. Marysville. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
D ecember 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, as lone No. 80,
Oct. 15. 1887.
E. K. Kane, Nevada City, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
}"yro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsi n Hill , 1855. Charter su rrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
Mounta in Forest. Moun tain Forest. 1855. Cha rter surrendered May 1870.
Petaluma. Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No.
180, D ecember 1898.
Calaveras, San Andreas, 1855. Consolidated with Mokclumne No. 31, as Calaveras No. 78. Oct. 13, 1883.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Campo Seco No. 100, as Calaveras
No. 78, October 1898.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Mokelumne Hill No. 298, as Calaveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
lone. lone, 1856. Consolidated with Nebraska No. 71, as lone No. 80, Oct. 15

.
1887.
82 Mountain, D on Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18. 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, as Eureka No.
16, Sept. 2, 1919.
85 Indian Diggings. Indian Diggings. 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115,
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17. 1874.
St. Mark's, f iddletown. Charter revoked June 26. 1894.
86 Saint Louis. Howland's Flat, 1856. C onsolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, as
Gibsonville No. 158, November 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman No. 88, May 8, 1856.
Quitman, North Bloomfield. Consolidated w ith Nevada No. 13, as Nevada No.
13, Oct. 13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek. 1856. Charter surrendered May 8. 1858.
91 N orth Star. Fort Jones , 1856. Consolidated with Owen No. 108, as North Star
N o. 91. Oct. 15, 1908.
92 Acacia, Coloma. 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Mar. 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Moved to St. Helena and name changed to St. Helena
No. 93, Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Ho,.,-ard. Yreka, 1856. Coll30lidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8. 1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte. 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, as Jefferson
No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
Jefferson, La Porte, Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, as Forbestown No. 50,
July 19, 1926.
98 Quartzburg. Quartzburg, 1856. Moved to Hornitos a nd name changed to Hornitos
No. 98, May 1860.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Consolidated with Yosemite No. 133, as Yosemite No.
99. O ct. 16, 1913.
100 C ampo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as Calaveras No. 78, O ctober 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada
No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.

472

473

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS-Continued

105

Landcr, Austin, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16. 1865.
175 Claiborne. Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch No. 175, Oct. 12, 1865.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan. Prescott, Arizona Territory, 1866. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona.
Mar. 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, P etaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No.
180. December 1898.
182 Meridia n. Arbuckle. 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle No. 182, Oct. 16, 1919.
Arenas.
Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne, Oct. 10, 1867.
185
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, as Natoma No. 64,
Oct. 17. 188-4.
197 Paradise, Hayward. 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin. Rocklin, Dispensation 1870. Charter never issued.
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. 1. 1917.
213 Bodega. Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic No. 218, Oct. 18, 1881.
221 Inyo, Independence. 1872. Consolidated with Waucoba No. 413, as Inyo No. 221.
Jan. 10, 1945.
222 Granite. Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432, as Roseville No.
222. May 29. 1919.
223 Maui. W ailuku. Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
226 Haywa rd. Half Moon Bay, 1873. Moved to San Mateo and name changed to
San Mateo No. 226. Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa. Somersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
235 Surprise Valley, Cedarville, 1874. Consolidated with North East No. 266, as
Surprise Valley No. 235. July I, 1962.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero. Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
April I. 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, as Sincerity
No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood.'Duncan's Mills. 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedwnah No. 287, as Winnedumah
No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
254 Reading, Redding, 1879. Consolidated with Kennett No. 456, as Reading No. 254.
Dec. 19. 1925.
255 Welcome, Lemoore, 1879. Consolidated with Riverdale No. 496, as Welcome No.
255, May 18, 1943.
257 Arizona. Phoenix, Arizona Territory, 1879. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Arizona Territory, Dispensation 1881, Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona , March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson. Tucson, Arizona Territory, 1881. Transferred to Jurisdiction o·f Arizona.
March 25, 1882.
264 H esperian, Santa Maria, 1882. Consolidated with Santa Maria No. 340, as Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13, 191 0.
266 North East, Fort Bidwell, 1882. Consolidated with Surprise Valley No. 235, as
Surfrise Valley No. 235, July 1. 1962.
270 Fa! River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked O ct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport. Westport, 188'!. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
277 Selma, Selma, 1885. Consolidated with Fowler No. 398, as Selma No. 277, Oct.
14, 1915.
284 Tyrlan, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156. as Woodland
No. 156. Oct. 11. 1911.
287 Winnedumah , Bishop, 1887. Consolidated with Bodie No. 252, as Winnedumah
No. 287. Dt>c. 20. 1918.
290 Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. Name changed to East Gate No. 290, Oct. 12, 1899.
298 Mokelumne Hill. Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as
Calaveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.

107
108

109
114
115
116
118
119
121
125
130
131
132
133
137
138
142
148
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170
171

Siskiyou, Henley. 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as St. John's No 37
Oct. 11. 1876.
. '
Franklin, Meadow Valley, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
Folsom, Folsom, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne No. 8, December 1876.
Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91. as North Star
No. 91. Oct. 15, 1908.
Dibble, Omega. 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26. Oct. 11. 1911.
Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. 1857. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star No. 2, as Western Star No
2. Oct. 15. 1936.
.
Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8. 1905.
Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
Napa City, Napa, Dispensation 1859, Charter ne ver issued.
Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
Carpentt>r, Wood's Ferry, Dispensation 1858, was chartered in 1859 as Woodbridge No. 131. the name of the location of the Lodge having been changed to
Woodbridge.
Sincerity, Greenville, 1859. Consolidated with Greenville No. 249, as Sincerity
No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, as Yosemite
No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June 1862.
Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1. 1882.
Doric, North Fork, Dispensation 1861, Charter never issued.
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 186 1. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11. 186i.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered Oot. 13, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nevada Territory, 1862. Transfl'rred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Woodland, Woodland, 1863. Consolidoted with Tyrian No. 284, as Woodland
No. 156, Oct. 11. 1911.
Washoe, Washoe City. Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville. 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as Jefferson
No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
Gilroy,_ Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with G eorgetown No. 25, as Georgetown
No. 25, December 1898.
Virginia City, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver City, Silver City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville, Dispensation 1864, Charter never issued.
Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Esmeralda, Aurora, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Escurial. Virginia City. Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
N evada, Jan. 16, 1865.

172

474

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS-Contin ued

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.

311

Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341. as Oxnard No
·
3-11. Oct. 16. 1902.
339 Esperanza, Fullerton, 1900. Name changed to Fullerton No. 339, Oct. 13, 1904.
341 Oxnard, Oxnard, 1901. Consolidated with Hueneme No. 311. as Oxnard No. 3'tl
'
Oct. 16, 1902.
342 Manila, Manila, P . I., 1901. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands
'
D ec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P . I., 1903. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec
.
19, 1912.
360 Sao Francisco. San Francisco. 1901. Consolidated with Victory N o. -174, as San
Francisco-Victory No. 360. Nov. 29, 1961.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1901. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Oli vet No. 205
'
O ct. t. 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, O ahu, T. H ., 1905. Name changed to Lodge le Progres de
J'Oceanle No. 371, Oct. 12, 19 16.
373 V eteran, Sawtelle, 1906. N ame changed to W est Los Angeles No. 373, Oct. 12
•
1939.
38-i E l Centro, El Centro. 1907. Consolidated with Oasis No. 664, as El Centro No.
384, Aug. 30, 1937.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I .. 1907. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Isla nds,
Dec. 19, 19 12.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, as Selma No. 277, Oct
Ii. 1915.
413 Waucoha, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221. as Inyo No. 221,
Jan. 10, 1945.
414 Arlington, Los Angeles, 19 10. Consolidated with Acacia No. 438, as Arlington
No. 4 14, Sept. 28. 1959.
-132 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite N o. 222, as Roseville N o.
222. May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia No. 438, Oct. 16, 1918.
Acacia. Los Angeles. Consolidated with Arlington No. iii, as Arlington No. 414,
Sept. 28. 1959.
453 Bethlehem, San Francisco, 19 15. Consolidated with Crocker No. 454, as Crocker
No. 454, April I. 196 1.
451 Crocker, Daly City, 1915. Consolidated with Bethlehem No. 453, as Crocker N o.
451. A pril I. 1961.
-156 Kennett, Kenne tt, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, as Reading No. 254,
Dec. 19, 1925.
-17-1 Victory, San Francisco, 1919. Consolidated with San Francisco No. 360, as San
Francisco-V ictory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale. 1921. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, as Welcome
No. 255, May 18. 19i3.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No.
542. Oct. 12, I 950.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554, as Educator No. 554, Feb. 16. 1940.
55-1 Educator, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Golden City No. 553, as Eduacator No. 551, Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West. No. 628, as
Truth No. 628, Feb. Ii. 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Owensmouth, 1925. S ubsequent to the name of the community
being changed to Canoga Park, the name of the Lodge was changed to Canoga
Park No. 611. Oct. 15, 193 1.
6 12 W orkman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City No. 612. O ct. 10,
1929.
6 16 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616, Oct. ti,
1937.
628 Beacon of the West. Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No. 597, as
Truth No. 628, Feb. H , 1939.
66-1 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, as El Centro No.
384, Aug. 30, 1937.

475

Since Its Organization. April 18. A. L. 5850
1858
1863
William H. Howud __ G, M.
William C. Belcher........ G·. M.
John A. Reymond....D. G. M. Gil. 8. Cleiborne...... D. G. M.
Born Jen. I, 1100
Lemuel Lyon..............S. G. W . Louis Cohn ...........- ..S. G·. W.
Died Feb. 14, 18'4
Peter W. Rendle.......J. G. W .
- ....J. G,, W.
John A. Tutt.- ....... 0 . G. M. Addison Mertin......___ G. T. Wm. A. Devies.....
G. T.
Caleb Fenner............ S. G. W, Alex G. Abell.....- ..........G. S. James Leidley ________
Alex G. AbelL .......__ G. S.
Seshel WoodL______J, G. W.
1857
Levi Stowell ..._ .............. G. T.
John H. Gihon._______.G. S. Nathaniel G. Curtls ...... G. M.
1884
Washln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. t 1125
........ G. M.
Belcher
C.
William
1851
Died Julr d, 18'7
Gil. 8. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
John A. Tutt.................. G. M. Charles Mersh............D. G. M. Wm. A. Devies..........S. G. W.
Teheme No. J
Aaron D. PerL .......... S. G. W.
lseec: S. Titus..............J. G. W.
Born Feb. 4~ 111 I
John B. Pope..............J . G. W.
Died Mey h, 1900
James Leidley..................G. T.
T.
G.
8enj. D. Hyem.......... D. G. M. Addison Mertin ..............
Alex G . AbelL ..............G . S
E. F. F. Ellis..- ...........S. G . W. Alex G. Abell ---··-·-G• S.
8enj. S. Olds .............. J . G. W.
1858
1865
Townsend A. ThomeL....G. T. Nathaniel G . Curtis......G. M.
Levi Stowell. -........_.G. S. P. W. Shepheerd ...... D. G . M. Gilbert B. Claiborne.......G . M.
S.n J041quln No. It
Wm. MeCormiel. .... S. G. W .
Born 1829
1852
Jes. W. BieknelL _ .J, G. W.
Dec. I, 1909
Benjamin D. Hyem ........ G. M. Addison Martin .............. G. T. Wrr..Died
A. Davln ____ O. G . M.
Benlcl• No. I
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S. Isaac S. Titus.............. S. G. W.
Born Merch Ii Ill)
Died Julr 12, en
Henry H. Hertley......J . G. W.
1859
Chu. M. RedclHL_ D. G. M.
G. M. James Laidl•Y·--·-·-··--·G. T.
Addison Mertin................ G.T. Nathaniel G. Curli1......
W. Shepheerd ...... D. G. M. Alex G. Abell................. .G. S.
J. R. McConnell .._ J , G. W. P.
Ebenezer Lene.. ___S. G. W.
Addison Mertin ......- - G. T. Thos. P. Hewley___J . G. W.
1868
Levi Stowell___ _____ G. S.
Addison Martin .....____ G. T.
Gilbert B. Cleiborne._ .. G. M.
Al111 G . Abell ...- .......... G. S. Henry H. Herlley ...... D. G. M.
1853
Charles M. Redcliff.._.G. M.
1860
Wm. H. Petenon .......S. G. W .
Tuolumne No. 8
Nethenlel G. Curtis ...... G. M. Thomes Bec:L............J. G. W.
Born Feb. S, 1811
P. W. Shepheerd ......D. G. M. James Leldley .................. G. T.
Died Dec. ll , 1889
T. A. Thomes.............. D. G. M. Wm, C. 8elcher........S. G. W . Alex G. Abell..................G. S.
Jno. R. Crandell ........ S. G. W, AlvinH Heyward .......J. G. W.
Richard F. Knott........J. G. W. Addison Martin .............. G. T.
1867
Addison Mertin..............G. T. Alu G. Abell .................. G. S.
William A. Oevles. .........G. M.
Levi StowelL.................- G. S.
1861
Columble No. 29
Born Feb. S, 1127
James L English ............G. M.
1854
Died June 20, ""
Sacramento No. <40
Bom June~ 181)
Henry H. Hartl ey....D. G . M.
Williem H. Howerd ...... G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Died Mer n, ""
Thomas 8ecl.. ...........S. G. W.
Wm. C. Belcher........ D. G. M. Leonides E. Pratt......J. G. W.
lorn A119. 2'1 1810
Died Sept. la, 1"6
John W . Herville......S. G. W. James A. Leidley............G. T.
Nath. G. Curtis........ D. G. M. Caleb E. Wilcoxon....J. G. W.
Rector E. Cole.......... S. G. W. James Leidley................G . T. Alex G. Abell..................G. S.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J . G. W. Al111 G. AbelL.................G. S.
Add ison Mertin.....- ......G. T.
1868
1862
Levi Stowell_______...... G. S.
.... _ .. ___ _G. M.
Manh
Charles
William C . 8elcher........ G. M.
Neveda No. IJ
Corlnthlu No. "
1855
6..._1121
Dec.
orn
B
Born Dec. 12, 1120
Died April Z11, 1176
Williem H . Howerd ......G . M.
Died Sept. I, IHS
T. A. Thomes..............D. G . M. Gil. 8. Cleiborne ...... D. G. M. Theo. G. Cockrill......S. G. W.
Jno. A. Raymond...... S. G. W . John W . Hervllle.._ .S. G. W. Leonidu E. Pr1tt ......D. G. M.
Sam. A. Me,,.itt........J . G. W. John 8. Hewson ........J. G. W. Fred~. F. Bens.._ .....J. G. W.
Addison Mertin..............G. T. James Leidley..........- .... G . T. James Leldley..................G. T.
lnl Stowell ___ _ ...&. S. Alex G. Abell......- -... w. S. Alex G. Ab.JI..._______ &, S.
1850
Jonathan D. Slevenson .. G. M.
Ca llfornle No. I

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1889

LeonldH E. Pratt__________ G. M.
Mountain Shade No. II
lorn A"9. 2t, Ill)
Died Od. 25, 1816
Isaac S. Titus.............. D. G. M.
John S. Ward ......_.....S. G. W.
Richard DalL...........J. G. W.
lamH Laldley...._............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell .._ __________ G. S.

1870
Leonrdas E. Pratt.-........ G. M.
Isaac S. Titua.._ _. D. G. M.
Chu. L. W iggin. __ $. G. W.
Benj. H. Freemen_.J. G. W.
James laldley ________G. T.
Alex G. Abell. -...........G. S.

1871

Leonidas E. Prett.._____G. M.
Chu. L Wig9in ........ D. G . M.
Ben. H . Freeman ..._ $. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins ____J, G. W.
James Leldley _____ G, T.
Alex G. Abell _ _ _ _ G. S.

1872

J883

John M. Browne ............G . M.
Chu. L Wiggin ___ O. G . M.
Wm. S. Wells............ S. G. W.
Solon W. Crai9ue....J. G . W.
James Laidley.............-.... G. T.
Alex G. Abell............... ... G. S.

Jonathan O. HlneL..- .6. M.
San luenaventure No, Jl4
lorn Jan. I, 1121
Died Dec. JO, 1"6
Wiley J. Tinnln........ D, 6. M
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G,
Hiram N. Rucker_..J , G. W.
Moses Heller ..............._ G, T.
Alox G. Abell...·------.G. S.

1877
John M. Browne.._ ....... G. M.
Chu. L Wiggin ...... 0. G. M.
Wm. W . Traylor.-.... S. G . W .
Wm. H. Crane_____ J . G . W.
Moses Heller .............._ .G. T.
Alex G. Abell..- ............. G. S.

1878
John M. Browne............ G. M.
Wm. W. Traylor........ O. G. M.
Wm. H. Crane ..........S. G. W .
Robt. C. Broder........J. G . W.
Moses Heller -----·-·------.. G · T.
Alei G. AbelL.............. G. S.

1879

1873

William W. Traylor........ G. M .
Cellfornla No. I
Born Much 17, lln
Died Jon. 18, 188)
Samuel C. Oenson .... D. G. M.
Clay W. Taylor........ S. G. W .
John Q. Adams ........J . G. W.
Moses Heller _ ____............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell._ ............. G. S.

1874

Samuel C. Denson ........ G . M.
Union No. 58
l orn Sept. n , lllt
Dlad July 26, 1'17
Clay W. Taylor.__..... O. G. M.
John Q. Adams ........ S. G. W .
0. W . HollenbecL.J. G. W.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
Alex G . AbelL............._.G. S.

Leon idu E. Pratt..........G . M.
Benj. H. Freeman ...... D. G . M.
Geo. C . Perklns..._ ..S, G. W.
John M. Browne........J. G. W.
James Laidley.......--....... G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.
Isaac S. TituL______ G, M.
San Joaquin No. It
l orn Od. l!i_ 1127
Died Aprll u, 1m
Gao. C. Perkins........ O. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. ·w.
Chas. E. Mitchell......J. G . W.
James Laidley.......____ G, T.
Alex G. Abell .................. G. S.

1880

George C. Perkins.._ .. G. M.
Oroville No. IOJ
1881
Born Aug . 21, lllt
Clay W . Taylor............... G . M.
Died Feb. 2', lf.U
Western
Ster No. l
John M. Browne........ D. G. M.
lorn Sept. 10 1~
Wm. B. Parker....... _ $. G. W .
Dlad Mey I, 1 897
Wiley J . Tinnln ......__J. G. W . John Q. Adams........ D. G. M .
James Laldley................ G. T. J onathan D. Hines .... S. G. W .
Alex G. Abell.................. G . S. Thos. J. 8oweri.._....... J. G. W.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
187S
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.
John M. Browne............G . M.
Naval No. 87
1882
lorn May 10, 1111
Clay W. Taylor.............. G. M.
Died Dae. 7, llM
Chas. L Wi99in ......D. G . M. Jona than 0 . Hines. ... D. G. M.
Wiley J . Tinnin ..........S. G. W. Edm . C. At kinson ......S. G . W .
Jacob H. Neff____ _J. G . W . George Hinds.. .._____ J G. W .
Jamel Laidley........._____ G, T. Moses Heller ................._G , T.
Alex G. Abell.•- .............G. S. Alex G. AbelL............... G. S.

477

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

1878

1881

w:

1884
Jonathan D. Hine1........ G. M.
W iley J. Tinn in........D. G. M.
Edm. C . Atkinson ...... $. G . W.
Hiram N. Rucker...... J , G. W,
Moses Heller ..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.

1885
Wiley J. Tinnln .............. G, M.
Trinity No. J7
Born Oct. 7, 112t
Died Nov. 24, ltlO
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... D. G. M.
Hiram N. Rucker...... $. G. W .
Henry H. Knapp ......J . G. W,
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.

Morris M. &t..______ __G. M.
William Johnston ....0. G . M.
Chas. R. Gritman ______$, G. W .
He"ry S. Orme........J . G. W.
Nathan W Sp•ulding .... G. T.
Ale1 G. Abell.................G. S.

1890
A lveh R. Conklin ............ G. M.
Inyo No. 221
l orn 1135
Died Od. I, 1"7
W illiam Johnston ...... D. G. M.
Chas. R. G ritman .... S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme ....... J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

1891
Will iam Johnston .......... G. M.
Fnnklln No. 10
l orn June 2, 1115
Died Nov. 14, 1'°5
Chas R. G ritman ...... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ........ S. G. W.
Jas. 8. Stevens..........J. G. W .
Nathan W Spa ulding .... G. T.
George J ohnson ............ G. S.

1888

1892

Edmund C. Atkinson.... G, M.
Sacramento No. '40
lorn Nov. 17.....1Bl7
Died Morch lV, ltl I
Hiram N. Ruder...... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estee ........S. G . W.
Alvah R. Conklin...... J. G. W.
Nath!lft W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell .................. G. S.

Charles R. G ritman __.... G. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Dae. 10, 1831
Died M•y 14, 18f4
Henry S. Orme ........ O. G. M .
Ju. B. Stevens.......... $. G . W.
Edw. M. Praston........J. G. W ,
Nathan W Spa ulding .... G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.

1887
Hiram N. Ruc\er .......... G. M.
IA Grange No. 9t
lorn Sept. 6. 1144
Died Dec. ll, 190S
Morris M. Estee ........ D. G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin...... S. G. W
Wm. Jo~nston ..........J . G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G . S.

1893
Henry S. O rme............. G. M.
So. Ca llfornla No. 278
lorn March 25, 1817
Died Nov. 2', ltl2
Jas. B. Stevens .......... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston_ ..... S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas ............J . G. W .
Edward Col oman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.

1888

1894

Morris M. Estee ............ G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born Nov. 23, llM
Died Oct. 7, 1901
Alvah R. Conklin...... D. G. M.
William Johnston ___ $. G . W.
Marc. 0. Borud........ J . G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _.G. T.
AIH G. Abell ____ ...... 6. S.

Jamos B. Stevens .......... G. M .
Yount No. 12
l orn March 27, l~I
Died Dae. 6, ltlt
Edw. M. Preston ........ D. G . M.
Thomas Flint......._____ J. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas... ......... S. G. W.
Ed ...erd Coleman......_ ... G. T.
Georg• Johnson ...- ...... G. S.

:r~~t:n

Edward M.
........ G. M.
Nevada No. IJ
Born May 4, 18'41
Died April 24, I'll))
Wm. T. Lucu ........... .D. G. M.
Thomas Flint...... ........ S. G . W.
F. M. Angellotti....... .J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............ G . S.

I

1901

William S. Well1_____ 6. M.
Martina• No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jen. 21, ltlt
0. S. Hende"on ...... O. G . M.
Chas. W. Nutting .... S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter .•.__J, G. W.
Edward Coleman..._........ G. T.
G eorge J ohnson ..•______ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.. -......... G. L

1896

1902

William T. Luces............ G. M.
Guada lupe No. 217
Born M1rch 18, 1850
Died March 21, 1911
Thomas Flint... ____ ,...... D. G. M.
F. M. Ang"llotti........ S. G. W.
Chas. L. Patton ........ J, G. W.
Edward Co leman ........... G. T.
George J ohnson ............ G S.

Orrin S. Henderson ......G. M.
Mornlnq Star No. 61
Sorn June 2, llU
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W . Nutting.... D. G _ M.
Geo. W. Hunter...... S. G. W,
Motley H. Flint... .....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............ G, T.
George John1on ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............ G. L

1897
Thomas Flint .................. G. M.
Teao1 No. 46
Born May 19 1158
Died Nov. 18, 1936
F. M. Angellotti. ...... 0. G. M.
Chas L. Pa lton.......... S. G. W.
Jas. A. Fos hay .........J. G. W.
Ed ward Coleman ............ G. T.
Goorge Johnson ............ G. ),

1903
Charles W. Nutting ...... G . M.
E•anlnQ Star No. I U
Born Oct. l 1852
Diad Sept. 2o, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ...... 0 . G. M.
Motely H . Flint........ S. G. W.
Edw. H. Harl............ J . G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ........... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards... ......... G. L

1898

1904

Fra nk M. Angellottl... ...G. M.
Morin No. ltl
eorn Sept. 4. 1861
Di1d May 23, 1n2
Chas. L. Pa tton ....... 0. G. M.
Jes. A. Foshay ..........S. G. W.
Wm. S. Wells.......... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnso n ............ G. S.

Goorge W. Hunt•r.._. __ G. M.
Humboldt No. 1'
Born 18~
Died Od. 14, 1925
Motley H . Rint....... . O. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart............ S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ________ J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............ G , S.
Wm. H. Edwa rds ............ G. L

1899
Charles L. Patton .......... G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born 1865
Died April 11, 19D
J es. A. Foshay.......... O. G. M.
Wm. S. Weils............S. G. W.
0 . S. Henderson ......J. G. W.
Edwa rd Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.

1900
Jamos A. Foshay ............ G. M.
So. Calltornl• No. 271
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells........... 0 . G. M.
0. S. HendoNon ...... S. G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting ....J . G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George J ohnson ............G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards............ G . L

1905
Motley H. Fl inl... ...........G. M.
Eost Gata No. 2'0
Born Feb. It, 1865
Died July 14, IUO
Edward H. Hart.._..... O. G. M.
Geo. M. Perine........ S. G . W.
Reuben H . Lloyd ...._.J , G. W .
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ......... .. G. S.
Wm. H. Edwe rds............ G. L

1906

Edward H . Hert __________ G. M.
LI••
Oak No. 61
Born 1851
Died Sept. 2', "17
Geo. M. Perlne.....-.. 0. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd...... S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler ..........._J. G. W .
Edward Coleman............ G. T.
Georg e Johnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edward1......- .G. L

1913

1919

\925

&eorge M. Perlne........6. M.
P•ciflc No. 116
lorn 18S2
Dl•d Oct. 6, "31
R•uben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawlar............S. G. W.
W . Frank Pierce........J . G. W .
Edward Col•man ............ G. T.
George Johnson .........- G. S.
Thomu J. Baker......- ..... G. L

John D. Murphey.....- .. &. M .
Alto No. 333
Sorn July 7, 1863
Di•d Sept, IS, 1'4S
Bonj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M.
Alb. G. Burnett........ S. G. W.
F. V. Keesling .._ ......J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ........•. G . T.
John Whicher ..................G . S.
Thomas J. Boker .............. G. L

Charles Albert Adams..&. M.
E.lcel1lor No. "'
Born No•. 25, 18'7
Died Moy I , 196.2
Geo. F. Rodden..___D. &. M
Sam. E. Burke_ ___ &. w"
Wm. A. Shermen __ _J. &.
Wm. Parker Film••- -.•..&. T.
John Whicher _ _______ E;. S.
Thomu J . Bak••- - -.G. L.

Albert E. Boynton ..........G. M.
Oroville No.103
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Died Feb. 22, 1941
Gao. L Jones.............. D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer..- .....S. G . W.
Gu&. A. Hutaff..........J. G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer._ .., ... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G. l.

1908

1914

O scar Lawler
..
G . M.
hd Gato No. 2'0
lorn April 2, 1871
W. Frank Pierco ........D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller ........S. G. W.
A. J. Monroe ............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
John Whichar.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Boker..............G. l.

Benj. F. Bledsoe ............G . M.
San Barnardlno No. 141
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Dl•d Oct. 30, 1931
Alb. G. Burnett........ D. G. M.
F. V. Keesling ............ S. G. W.
W . Rh. Hervey..........J. G. W.
Wm. P;irker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker..............G. l.

1807

1909
W . Frank Pierce............G. M.
Oakland No. IH
Born Jan. 1', 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Done R. Weller ........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe............S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer ..........J. G. W .
Edward Coleman............ G. T.
J ohn Whicher..............- G. S.
Thomas J . Baker .............. G. L.

1910
Dana R. Weller .............. G . M.
So. Callfornlo No. 271
lorn Morch 24, 1874
DI..:! Jan. 9, 1747
A. J . Monroe............ D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer....._ .. S. G. W.
J . 0 . Murphey ..........J. G. W .
Edward Colemon ............ G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. 5.
Thomu J . Baker..............G. l.

1911
Alonzo J . M onroe..........&. M .
Humboldt No. 79
Born Oct. 19, IISi
Di•d Juno 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer..........D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey .......... S. G . W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ........J . G. W.
Edward Colemon............G. T.
John Whicher....._ .......... G. S.
Thomas J. Boker.......... - G . l .

1912
Wm. P. Filmer................ G. M.
Kln9 Solomon No. 260
lorn Morch 2, 1844
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey.... . D. G . M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ S. G. W.
Alb. G . Burnett ........J . G. W .
Edward Colemon ............ G. T.
John Whlcher.................. G. S.
TI.omas J. Baker.............. G. L

1915
Albert G. Burnett .......... & . W.
Sant• Ro.a No. 57
Born Aprll 9, 1854
Died "'u9. 15, I '23
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M.
Wm . Rh. Hervey ......S. G. W.
Bradford Webster....J . G. W .
Wm. Porhr Filmer..........G . T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Th omas J. Baker........._ .. G. l.

1916
Francis V. Keesling ........ G . M.
Callfornla No. I
Born Feb. 17, ian
Wm. Rh . Hervey ...... D. G. M .
Bradford Webster.... S. G. W.
Charles A. AdamJ....J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Bakar.............. G. L

1917
Wm. Rhodes Hervey....G. M.
Pentalph1 No. 202
Born March 26, 1870
Died Feb. I, i9S3
Bradford Webster....D. G. M.
Charles A. Adoms....S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G . T.
John Whicher.................. G . S.
Thomes J. Baker.............. G . L

1918
Bradford Webster ........ G. M.
u,.. Oak No. 61
Born Dec. 14, 186'
Died June 4, 1941
Charles A. Adams.... D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden .... _.S. G. W.
Sam. E. Burke ............J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. 5.
Thomas J. Beker.... - .--G. L

179

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

178

s.

w:

1920

1926

George F. Rodden ....- •.&. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dec.24, 18'7
Died March I, 1"4
Sam. E. Burke.......- .D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sherman......$. G. W .
Arthur S. Crites ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parkor Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Beker___ ,.....G. L.

George L Jones............ G. M.
Madison No. 23
Born May 11, 1873
Died June 22, 1956
Will H. Fischer........ D. G. M.
Gus. A. Huteff.......... S. G. W .
C. M. Wolle nberg ....J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G , L.

1921
Samuel E. Burke....- .G. M.
Sunset No. 35?
Born Feb. 13, 1170
Died Feb. 14, 1961
Wm. A. Sherman ...... O. G. M.
Arthur S. Crites........S. G . W .
David J . Reese..........J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Whiche•.-·-····- ··-6. S.
Thomas J . Baker__......G . L

1922
William A. Sherman .....•&. M.
PrHldlo No. JS4
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1'40
Arthur S. Crites_ ..... D. &. M.
David J . Reese .......... S. G. W.
Alb. E-. Boynton ........J . G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.............•.•..G. S.
Thomas J . Baker..............G. L

1927
W ill H . Fischer.............. G . M.
Wlhhlre No. 445
Born Sept. 11, 1875
Died Oct. 4, 1953
Gus. A. HutafL. ....... D. G . M.
C . M. Wollenberg....S. G. W .
J. S. Ross ...................J . G. W .
Wm. Pa rker Filmer .......... G . T.
John Whicher............... _ G, S.
Thomas J . Baker .. ........... G . L

1928
Gustav A. Hulaff.......... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5, 117'
Died Oct. 17, 1933
•
C. M. Wollenberg....D. G . M.
J. S. Ross ..................S. G . W .
Robt. 8. Geylord ...... J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker .............. G. L.

1923

1929

Arthur S. Crites ............G. M.
Bahr1fleld No. n4
Born Feb. 4, 187'
Died Apr. 28, 1957
David J. Reese ..........D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton ........S. G. W.
Goo. L Jones............J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.... - .•.&. T.
J ohn Whicher............._ •.G . S.
Thomas J . Baker_.____ G. L

C . M. Wollenberg ........ G . M.
Starr Kln9 No. 344
Born March IJ 1m
Died Oct. 22, i962
John S. Ross .............. D. G . M.
Robt. 8. Geylord ...... S. G . W.
Frank W. Mixter........J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G . S.
Thomas J . Baker....- ........ G, L

1924
David J . Reese __ _ .••G. M.
Sen Buena..ntura No. 214
Born "'"Cl· 22, 1871
Died Nov. '· 1934
Alb. E. Boynton ........D. G. M.
Geo. l. J ones...- ......S. G. W.
W ill H . Fischer..........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..----G· T.
J ohn Whicher. - -··-·····6. S.
ThomH J. Beker.•..- -&· L

1931

1937

Robt. B. Geylord .. __..G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born No•. 24, 1876
Died Au9. 4, 1953
Frank W. Mixter...... D. G. M.
James B. Gist.._ _.•_ S. G. W .
Wm. A. Sitton..........J. G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer_..._... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L.

James T. Fraser..............G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Au9. 21, 1841
Died June 26, 1953
Leon 0. Whitsell...... O. G. M .
W illiam H. Wute....S. G. W.
Will iam B. Ogden ....J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ...........•.... G. l.

1932

1938

Frank W. Mixter............G. M.
Euter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1871
Died May 22, 1947
James 8. Gist............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton .......... S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting............J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G. l.

Leon 0. Whitsell .......... G . M.
Oran9e Gro•e No. 2f3
Born July 10, 187'
Will ia m H. Waste....D. G . M.
William B. Ogden ....S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson........J . G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........&. T.
John Whiche r .................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood..........- ....G . L

1933
James B. G ist.._..._ .......G. M.
Penlalpha No. 202
Born "'"""· 8, 1868
Died "'pril 25, 1954
R. V. Whiling ............ D. G. M.
Earl Warren.............. 5. G. W ,
Rollie W. Miller........J. G. W .
w~. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher___ ......- ...G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. l.

193(

19(0

Randolph V. Wh iting .... G. M.
Kln9 Solomon No. 260
Born Nov. 30, 1170
Died Feb. 4, 1952
Earl Warren .............. D. G . M.
Rollie W . Miller........S. G. W.
James T. Fraser........J. G. W,
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Laslie E. Wood ................ G. l.

Lloyd E. Wilson ............G. M.
lngle1ldo No. 630
Born "'"9· 16, 1895
Died Nov. 2, 1961
Frank M. Smith ....... D. G . M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher.................. G. S,
Welter Leonord .............. G. L.

1935

1941

Earl Warren ....................G . M.
Sequoia No. 34'
Born March 19, 18'1
Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M.
James T. Freser........S. G, W,
Leon 0. Whitsell......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G . T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................G . L

Frank M. Smith ..............G. M.
East Gate No. 2'0
Born April I, IB'M
Died Aprll 7, 1'51
Leslie E. Wood...... .... D. G. M.
Claude H.Morrison S. G. W.
G . C. DeForest... .....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G . S.
Chester H . Warlow ........G. L

1930

1936

John Stewart Ross ..- ... G . M.
El Centro No. 384
Born May 21 1879
Died Au9. JI, 1952
Robt. B. Geylord ...... D. G. M.
Frank W. Mirtor_____ G . W .
Jemes B. Gist............J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.._...... G. T.
John Whicher.. _ ............. G. S.
TllomH J. Beker....- .. - G. L.

Rollie W. Miller ......... ... G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1983
Died July 18, 1960
James T. Fraser........ D. G . M.
Leon 0. Whitsell ...... S. G . W .
W illiam H . Waste ....J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Leslie E. Wood.......•- •••.G . L.

s.

1939
William 8. Ogd•n ........G. M.
Hollywood No. 351
Born "'"9· 26, 187'
Died Sept. 12, 1954
Lloyd E. Wilson ........ D. G. M.
Fra nk M. Smith ....... S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood........ J. G. W.
Wm. Pa rker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Welter Leo nard ... ·-·-····G. L

1942
Leslie E. Wood.............. G. M.
Provident No. 60'
Born Aprll 2, 1897
Claude H . Morrison.. D. G . M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..S. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley ..J. G . W .
Wm. Pa rker Filmer.......... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson..............G. S.
ChMter H. Warlow._..•.& . L

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

480
1943
Claude H. Morri1on ......G. M.
S•n Ole90 No. JS
Born July 10, 1887
Died Nov , 2, 1953
Gilbert C. De Forest.. D. G . M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet .. J . G. W .
Francis V. Keesling........ G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson.............. G. S.
Chester H. Warlow ______G. L

1944

1949

1955

Ellsworth Meyer ............ G. M.
liberal Ans No. 6n
Born f t b. 27, 1905
Arthur Pa ulsen ......... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapeau ...... S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ....J. G. W .
Francis V. Keesling ...... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ............. G. S.
Walter H. E. von Kon sky G . L.

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr~...G •••
..._
l oyalty No. 52'
Born Oct. J, 1901
L Harold Anderson .. D.G.M
Leo E. Anderson ..._ s G w·
Ph il N. Myers..............J°G'w•
Edward H. Siems_..:::..:•.G.r:
Lloyd E. Wilson ..._·-··--- G.S
Elbert W . Davis. -........

1950

1956

----·-···G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest.. - ..G . M. Arthur Paulsen
Trlnlty No. II
Readln9 No. 2S4
1890
4,
May
Born
Born Sept. 18, 18"
Louis C . Dra peau ......D. G. M.
Died Jan. 25, 1952
M.
.
G
D.
Kelley.
C.
Lawrence
Arthur M. Warren ...S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W. Fronk Harwell, Jr .....J . G. Vol'.
John R. Moore..........J . G . W . Francis V. Keesli ng ........ G. T.
Francis V. Keesling ...- •..G. T. Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...... _......G. S. Woltor H. E. von Konsky G .L
Chester H. Warlow....- ..G. L

1945

1961

1951

G.L

L. Harold Anderson

1962
GM

Palo Alto No. 344·--·- • •
Born March 2,, 1'00
Leo E. Anderson- .....D.G M
Phil N. Myers ... ·- ··-··--S.G
J oe L. ShelL ................J.G:w·
Edward H. Sie ms_............G.T:
Lloyd E. Wilson _______G,S.
Elbert W. Davis......._ _ G.L

w·

1957

E. Anderson ... _,, ___G,:1,4
C. Drapeau .......... e. M. Leo Hollywood
'
No. 3SS
Lewrence C. Kelley ..._.G. M. Louis
No. &ll
oinsettia
P
February 20 1902
orn
B
Pentalpha No. 202
JO, 1885
Aug.
Born
Born July 2J, 1889
N. Myers ..._.:_...D.G.M.
Arthur M. Werren .. D. G. M Phil
Dled Oct. 24, 1945
Shell ................S.G.W.
L
Joe
W
G.
S.
.....
Jr
Harwell,
Arthur W. Brouillet......G. M. Frank
F. Breslauer ___.•J.G.W.
Alfred
W.
G.
.
J
....
Clausen
C.
449
Henry
Park No.
rd H. Siems ............G.T.
Born Jan. 21, 1884
Francis V. Keeslin9 ........ G. T. Edwa
E. Wilson ................G.S.
oyd
Ll
Died Sept. 18, 195J
S.
G.
E. Wilson ..............
John R. Moore........ S. G. W . Lloyd
W. Davis..·- -···--G.L
Elbert
H. E. von Konsky G . L.
Francis V. Keesling.-.....G. T. Walter
1958
Uoyd E. Wilson.............. G. S.
1952
G.M.
Chester H. Warlow_.._.. G . L
Arthur M. Warren ........G . M. Phil N. Myers ________
McCloud lod9e No. 00
1946
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born, January 12, 1897
Born December 17, 1901
Joh" R. Moore ....·-···-··G. M.
J oo L. Sholl ...- ....._ __D.G.M.
Meridian No. i'7
k Harwell, Jr..... D. G. M.
Fran
Alfred F. Breslau er...... S.G.W.
Born Sept. 1891
nry C. Clausen .... S. G. W. Guy B. Mize ......... - .....J.G.W.
Chuter H. Warlow .. D. G. M. He
V. Stewart, Jr. J . G. W.
Edward H. Siems......S. G . W. Edgar V. Keesling ........ G. T. Ed ward H. Siems- - ·-··-···G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..........- ....G.S.
Ellsworth Meyer...- ... J. G. W. Francis
Wilson ..............G, S. Elborl W. Davis................G.L
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T. Lloyd E.
Davis........- .... G. L.
Lloyd E. Wil1on .......... _.G. S. Elbert W.
1959
1953
Arthur M. Warren ..........G. L.
________·- ···G.M.
1947
Frank Harwell, Jr- .......G. M. J oe L. Shell ....No.
3S
San Dle90
Beverly Hills No. 528
Chester H. Warlow...... G. M.
18, 1892
ebruary
F
Born
Born October 4, 1898
frHno No. 247
.O.G.M.
Breslauer_
F.
d
Alfre
Henry C. Clausen.... D. G. M.
l orn Jun• 30, 188'
Guy B. Miu ______ S.G.W.
Edward H. Siems...... D. G. M. Edgar V. Stewert, J r•.. S.G.W.
J.G.W.
Ellsworth Moyer....... S. G. W. L. Harold Anderson ..J. G. W. Ira W. Cobum ............
Edward H. Siems._ _........G.T.
Arthur Paulsen........J. G. W. Francis V. Keeslin9 .......... G . T. Lloyd
E. Wilson._ ______G.S.
Francis V. Keesling . ...... G. T. Lloyd E. Wilson................G. S.
W. Davi•-·-·· ·-··-·6 .L
Elbert
L
G.
S.
___
G.
..
.........
Davis
..........
W.
Wilson
E.
Elbert
Uoyd
Arthur M. Werren ..........G. L.
1954

1948

Edward H. Siems .......... G. M.
Plymouth No. 5&0
l orn Decemb•r 7, 1903
Ellsworth Mayor....... D. G. M.
Arthur Paulsen . ........S. G . W.
Louis C. Drapeau..... J. G. W.
Francis V. Keeslin 9 ..- ....G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ............G . S.
Arthur M. Warren .•........G. L

1960

Henry C. Clausen ..........G.M.
ln9leslde No. '30
Born June 30, 1'105
Edgar V. Stewert, Jr•. D.G.M.J
L. Harold Anderso n.... S.G .W .
Leo E. Anderson.......... J .G.W.
Edward H. Siems......_ _...G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..•- .......... G .S.
Elbert W. Davis...•....•.•..... G.L

G M
.....
Guy B. Mize.........
...... • •
Unity No. 368
Born April 21, l<JOI
Ira W. C oburn .......... D. G. M.
Elmer W. Heald ..._•.. S. G . w.
Theodore Meriam ....J. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren .....- ... G. T.
Edward H. Siems............ G. S.
Donald G. Campbell......G. L

Alfred F. Breslauer.._ .....G.M.
Starr King No. J44
Born August 26, 1898
Guy B. Mize .._________D.G.M.
Ira W. Coburn ...___ S.G.W.
Elmer W. Heald... _.._.J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren•..••.....- G.T.
Edward H. Siems___....G.S.
Donald G. Cempbel L....- 6.L

Ira W. Cobu rn................G.M.
0 orlc No. 216
Born Jan. 26, I'104
Elmer W. Heald .......... D.G.M.
Theodore Meria m........ S.G.W.
Myron E. Smith ............J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ............ G.T.
Edward H. Siems.. ............ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell... ____G .L.

481

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

UST OF INSPECTOR S
lnapector1

Date of Commission

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

483

Date of Commission

District

lnapector1
District

Clarence L. Fraser..·--··-·-··-··--····- ··.December, 1927.·-··-·-··- ·--·-··424
Wm. S. Thompson....._..·-···-······--··-··-- ····.March, 1928·-··-··-··---· ·-··-···412
Niles 0. Millar-·-··---- ··-··-··--··---·· -··.July, 1932-·--·-- -···346
Herbert R. Hargrave·-·--··- ·····-··-···Septem ber 15, 1934..·-----··-· -----418
John Behrens ···-··················..-··-···-·..-·..January 2, 1935..·-··-..····-·-······--..378
Samuel Dollar -··-··-·-··-··--···· ··--····.Decemb er, 1935..·----·-··-··-······-···416
George S. Ward..........................................January 1, 1937·--··-·-··--·· -··-···104
Fred Weed...............- .................................September, 1938..·-··-··--···---·········642
Guido de Ghetaldi.. .....................................October, 1938..·-··-··-·-··-····--··· 306
.354
Roy H. Lenthall ......- ......- .... _,,_ ...................January, 1939--··-·
Harold S. Morrison................................December 1, 1940........................... - ...516
Melvin R. Berbower........·-····-······-··.Nov ember 10, 1943................................624
Frederic E. Clark...- ................................January 26, 1944..·-······-··-··-······-···560
James B. Lawson__····-··- -..·--·····-··--··.Ma rch 6, 1945..·---·---..--··-···426
Arch Balchin.-·- ---··--··---. March 27, 1945......·--··-·--·-···39 2
Edward C. Lohmeyer....·-··--···········Sept ember 27, 1945...................- ...........322
Alexander Duncan...-··-···· -··-········-·-···Oc tober 9, 1945................................301
Robert W. Nicol..-··---···· ··-··- ···--···October 24, 1945..·-··-·--··-··-··-··· 612
W. Ralph Anderson......·-··················-··.November 4, 1946...- ...........................360
Fred C. Pritschke..·-··············-··-·-· ·-····-·-.April 7, 1947·-··---······-· ·-··-···428
Roy T. Kiele....................................................April 22, 1948.......- .......................544
Elmer Glen Van Tassell ...................September 11, 1948..·-··-·-·····-...........112
Reginald Reynolds ................................November 5, 1948...................-··-··-···108
Louis H. Mahler........................................January 31, 1949................................580
John A Owen. ............................................- ...May 16, 1949................................586
Chas. A Thomasset.....................- .................June 28, 1949................................ 546
Wilson Ernest Lathrop..............................October 1, 1949...............- ...............410
Earl Caldwell............................................January 16, 1950................................324
Elvin C. Drake--·--· -·----·---.A pril 14, 1950.__ ...........................570
Ted R. Siems............................................... _.....May 8, 1950..·-··-··-·······............614
Frank W. Raddatz................................November 24, 1950................................524
Joseph Myron Ruggiero....................December 21, 1950................................332
J. Ralph Dawdy........................................January 26, 1951................................422
Andre L. Armand ..................... - .............January 26, 1951 .....·--··············-···37 6
Reginald Bunce ..........................................October 23, 1951................................520
Kenneth C. Stanley..................................February 7, 1952................................636
Wilfred W. Partridge..................................March 31, 1952................................500
Lynn A Blackmun......................................March 31, 1952................................502
Edward Farley..................................................May 12, 1952................................208
Harry K. Widup..................................November 10, 1952.......-··--······-······34 4
Harry H. Aiman..·--·--··- ··-··-···········....March 2, 1953..........- -...............644
Paul A. Hackler.................- .....-.................March 26, 1953..·-······-··---···..···-···330
Sam Lovell..·-··-··-··········-·················-···········June 25, 1953...- ...........................214
Robert Edgar_·-··- ----·--··.Au gust 27, 1953·--··-···----.....-.384
Ray Earl Burdg...·-···--··-··-··-····- ·-...September 5, 1953..·-··-··-··-··-··-···-·· 21'1
328
James E. Finley....·-··-··-··--·-··-·· ·····October 10, 1953..·-··-··-··········-··-···
E. Lloyd Hanson ..........................................January 1, 1954................................350
622
...........
......
_
..........
John H. Ferguson........................................January 1, 1954.
Raymond Glenn Hollar...- .........................January 1, 1954.......................- .......220
Milton Hoffe Sharp..................................February l, 1954...........................- ...210
Claiborn Schonhoff...........- ......- .................March 12, 1954................................402
Wallace H. Fiske................................. _...... .March 12, 1954..·-····--·-..--·-·-···404
Norbert Peter Tester................_....................June 30, 1954......·-··-······-··-·······646
Ray Smith..............................................December 15, 1954................................550
Palmer A. Wells..........................................January 7, 1955...- ..- .......................222
Clarence C. Smith......................................January 7, 1955.................- .............364
Alva A. Daniells.............................- .........January 13, 1955..·-··-··-··-······-··-···427
Henry Drashner......................................February 14, 1955....................,.._.......506

Adolph H. Fr~nzen. ......................_..........- .....May 1, 1955...-·-··-··-··-··--3 36
:ward C. Will ...............................................July 14, 1955 ..·-··-··-··-··-···--·3 8'7
C ank Leroy Sutliff......................................August 9, 1955...........................-.5"2
arl E. Moo~e ................................................October 3, 1955........................... _...432
.318
Ralph M. Hmds.................- .......................October 29, 1955.. ·-·-··-··-··
~~es L. Mile~........................................December 9, 1955...................==.584
.az:les Frederick Chapman....................January 6, 1956................................ 526
William Waters Shugart ..........................January 6, 1956.......................-..- ...431
Freeman George Sanders......................January 20, 1956.......................- .......394
~ar:3~d F. Trafton......................................... .April 24, 1956...............- ...............388
D · .ird Cr<;>ss ....................................................May 20, 1956...........................- ...629
J an1el_ Kleunan ..............................................July 16, 1956...........................- ..411
Eos~p L. O~sley ............................................July 16, 1956.........................- ...602
F. oss Baylls..................................................July 25, 1956................................365
RloydllO. Mason................................................July 30, 1956................................625
Kewe EDCarlton ......................................August 15, 1956................................607
E e1reth ow~ll ........................................August 20, 1956.......-·-··-··-·--·605
Harb Moore V1gus......................................August 23, 1956..............- ..-..-.--603
R~ ~rt J. Raymond..................................August 29, 1956....................___632
W P W. Cutler ........................................August 31, 1956................................534
F' ar;e A. Dahling..- .........................September 11, 1956..·-··-··-······-·--- 208
Lier Thompson ..................................November 27, 1956................................562
Ges ie S. Wayman. ............................... November 27, 1956.......................- ...576
uforge T. Rowse......................................January 1, 1957.·-······-··-- ··-···314
ysses George Patropulos....................January 1, 1957..·-----··-·--·····.3 33
· g:orge Q. Evans ......................................January 4, 1957......·-······-······-.......594
Cl orge WE Perkins .................................. January 16, 1957..·-··-·-·-··-··-······· 548
·----·-···316
B arence . Shoaf._...................................January 25, 1957
Alrrell Roberts R1es ............................. .......April 1, 1957.·-----·-·- ··-···634
.........................................April 18, 1957..·--··-··------6 20
8 .~n~YT.:-D{t,Rant...
h eb~ter..........................................May 9, 1957·--··---··- ··-··300
L1
w-w;r ug F1eld................... - .....................May 15, 1957··---··---··-·-·-·· ·637
R'r eld Sfott McLees ..................................May 15, 1957..·-·--··----.6 39
~ ey L. B urton ..............................................May 24, 1957..·-··-··-··-··---··-··· 628
v·ank N. Long...............- ...............................July 31, 1957·--··----·- -·-···374
J ictor Prenk ........................................September 5, 1957.......... ·-·····-··--···320
~es E. B1ii;on .. ;··········--·········-.............December 15, 1957...........................- ...504
. 9 Ragg ia!ltL.......................................January 1, 1958..·-··--·-··36 8
Philip Stembridge Hunt... ________ .January 1, 1958..·--··----·---6 10
!ll~t~ ~oBard Casagrande.......- ...........January 1, 1958..·-·-··-·-···-----1 17
ryceson._____··-··-··-··-··-···Jan uary 1, 1958·-··---··-·-· -·-···110
H
ug G. Martin.·---··-· ·--····-·-·--·-·.A pril 28, 1958..·-··------.2 27
L~yd Arlo Countryman.............. ____ .August 13, 1958·--··---- ----114
.334
C arles L. Foster.....·-·-····---·····--· --January 1, 1959
:::_-342
1959::.~:::::::=
1,
·--··-·····January
...
............
Rothblum.
H.
~arlton
amuel G. Clark....... ____________ _ .January 1, 1959________ .-.326
~ur L. Hughes........·--······--··-···-··J anuary 23, 1959..................·-······-···109
D ~~ ~ohnson -·······-····-··-······ ·-····-··.February 9, 1959......·-······-·-··-···--36 1
-·····-·-···-··.Apri l 6, 1959.......................- ...-..340
P arue w·
E~ E · m - - · - - - · · - - - J u n e 4, 1959..·-··-··-----1 06
Fr er · Ross--·---· --··----·····J une 8, 1959·--·····-- ---.366
ank P. _Lenien. •••·-·-----·····-·-··- -·--October 8, 1959......·-······-------.21 8
~:ffs Lmsk ...................- ..............- ...December 1, 1959..........·-··-··-··-··-···554
Cal A Thomas Shirley...- .................December 1, 1959.......................- ..- ...596
Halter........................................December 15, 1959..............·-······-··-···518
T~
1an Wr::. Heidner........................December 15, 1959................................530
Ro ~ch ..... - ........................ .December 15, 1959................................582
Ch
B. W1ght......·-··--·····-··---····· December 15, 1959..................·-·····-···307
J
R°ai nh . Baker, .Jr....- ...........................December 15, 1959................................372
P P. Partr1dge.....- ...-···-··---···-··Dece mber 15, 1959.......- ....··-··-··-··-··.319

1 .

1£C?WJtds.....___........

willi"F

:r;

484
lmpectors

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date of Commission

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNLA

Di&trict

Charles J. Wentz............................. _...December 15, 1959...........- ...................626
Alfred A. Penrose..·-··········-··-············-···January 1, 1960..·-··-······-······---··.224
Taubner G. Hamma..·-··-·-··-······-····-···Janu ary 1, 1960.•·-·····-··-··-······-··.228
Gordon E. Robinson. .........·-····-··-··-······.January 1, 1960..·-··-··················-···338
John D. Dearing, Sr....................- .............January 1, 1960...............- ...............302
Carl R. Ramsey......................................February 26, 1960............•..............- ...362
Wendell L. Goodwin............................February 26, 1960................... - ...........564
Theodore B. Fach..........................................Marc~ 1, 1960...............- ...............5~
Oscar Hubert Nelson...-··-··········-······-········.April 5, 1960...........-··············-···6
William Bottorff ·······-····························-··.April 22, 1960................................578
Earl James Walker..·-··-······-··-······-······-··.April 22, 1960·--··-··-··-·-··-·······621
Frederick Bolte ···-······-······-············-······-··.May 3, 1960...- ...........................385
Harry M. Michelsen.......-··························-···June 1, 1960...................- ...........337
Lee H. Buchheister....................................August 20, 1960..........................._...390
Ray H. Paine............. _.........................September 20, 1960................................508
George Dennis Lober................................October 4, 1960...............- ...............606
Romayne Harvey Bantz........ _..................January 1, 1961............... -······-·······310
Larry C. Basker..........·-······- ··-·-··-···· .......January 1, 1961................... _...........356
Herbert H. Hobson................-..................January 1, 1961........... -·····-·······-···348
Lorenza H. Shaw........................................January 1, 1961 ................................638
Burton Meyer, Jr.......................................January 1, 1961 ................................552
Robert A. Crigler...................- ...................January 1, 1961................................ 590
Frank E. Stevens..................... _...............January 10, 1961................................ 510
Russell F. Bragg····················-···············-Janu ary 12, 1961................................601
Benjamin F. Nash................... _...............January 18, 1961....................... - .......536
Roy C. Addleman, Jr...............................January 18, 1961................................538
Arnold G. Robertson ..............................January 18, 1961...............- ...............540
Richard Marks Lustig............................January 18, 1961................................608
Cressey J. Wescott..................................January 20, 1961................................204
William E. MarshalL. .............................January 27, 1961................... _...........212
Horace R. LaFortune ............................February 15, 1961...................- ...........216
A. Boyd Collier...................................... February 15, 1961...................- ...........219
Wayne E. PhilippL ...................................March 29, 1961................... _...... - ...120
Edward L. Spellmeyer..................................May 15, 1961................................118
John Keller, Jr.................................................June 1, 1961................................308
Wendell Howard NicoL.................... September 22, 1961....................... - .......226
John Clifton Carpenter...................... September 28, 1961................................430
George D. Stroope................. _ ..................October 9, 1961...............- ...............370
T. W. Moore..........................................November 27, 1961...................- ...........116
Albert E. ThirkilL. .................................January 1, 1962........- ......................304
Merrill D. Coy..........................................January 1, 1962................................352
Ralph M. Webb........................................January 1, 1962....................... - .......358
Ronald E. J ones ........................................J anuary 1, 1962..........·-··············-···512
Mark E. Schrock......................................January 1, 1962................................528
Alfred J. Navin........................................January 1, 1962...............- ...............556
Lloyd V. Smith........................................January 1, 1962................................558
Erwin H. Gebhardt ..................................January 1, 1962...........................- ...566
Irvin Shulkin ..........................................January 1, 1962...- ...........................568
Thomas J. McKimson ............................January 1, 1962................................572
Robert E. Crist..........................................January 1, 1962................................588
James D. Kelso........................................January 1, 1962................................ 592
Wayne C. Bates........................................January 1, 1962..·-··········-···············618
John Lacy Taylor....................................January 1, 1962..........·-······- ···········630
Herman W. Toedter................................January 1, 1962................................635
Sam I. Bonn. ................... ·-······- ···············January 13, 1962...... ·-··········-··········.215
William Lowell Hurd ................................March 14, 1962.................. ·-······-···406
William E. Foster........................................March 15, 1962................................382
Chad Horton ·············-····································.April 5, 1962................................420
Paul Landis Turner........................................April 5, 1962................................421
William Henry Price ......................................June 1, 1962................................616

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RleopiUtl tmtJ in p,.illMfllll R•ldl;,,,,, tvi1b lb•
Gf'llnll Lotlg• of CmfONIM

Argentina:
Carlos Wilson, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Austria:
Fritz Blum. Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse -12, Vienna 1, Austria
Belgium:
Rene Desgain, Secty.
5, Rue Du Chene, Brussels 1, Belgium
Bollvla:
Humberto Frias Rojas, Grand Secty..
Casilla Correo No. 554, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.
Braslb
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
J oaqulm Gomes Loureiro, Grand Sedy.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
A. Napoleao Figueiredo, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Lourival Evelin Vieira, Grand Secretary of Rel. Ext.
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Mario Herdy Silva, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Janyr Godinho, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 536, Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil
The Grand Lod$:e of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva, Grand Sedy.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Ary Silva Antunes, Grand Secty.,
Caha Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 8348, Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel En.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Oswaldo Baucke, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil

485

486

Canada1
Alberta Edward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330 -12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British Columb iaJ. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouv er 2, B. C.
Canada- (Provinc e of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty..
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton 2, Ontario.
Manitob aThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba .
New Brunswi ckA. C. Lemmon , Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Box 430, St. Johns, New Brunswic k.
Nova ScottaHarold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.
P. 0. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandFloyd Drake, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 337, Charlotte town, P . E. I.
QuebecJ. Mel. Marshall , Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montreal 25, Quebec.
Saskatch ewanRichmon d Mayson, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatch ewan.
Chlle1
Oscar Pereira H., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
China:
Ting Chien, Grand Secty.,
P. O. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China

Colombia a
Gran Logia de Colombia ,
Ignacio Ramirez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia , S. A.
Gran Logia Occident al de Colombia
Carlos Rincon C., Grand Chancell or-Foreig n Relations ,
Apartado Aereo No. 19-75, Cali, Colombia , S.A.
National Grand Lodge of Colombia
F. Silva, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations ,
Apartado Nacional 333, Barranqu illa, Colombia , S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisc o de Paula Santande r"
National Serene Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagen a
Jose J . Alvarez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Nal. No. 16, Cartagen a, Colombia , S.A.
Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B., Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
.. Cuba:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

• Czecho-S lov akia:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-S lovakia at Prague.
Denmark :
National Grand Lodge-Alfred Nyvang, Grand Secty.,
Blegdam svej 23, Copenhag en, Denmark .
Dominica n Republic::
Alfredo de la Cuesta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 865, Santo Domingo, Dominica n Republic.
Ecuador1
Bruno s.adun Mamo, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaqu il, Ecuador, S.A.

•••Egypt :
The National Grand Lodge of Egypl
El Salvador (Cuscatla n):
Carlos Alfonso Castellan os Grand Secty 1
2a Calle Oriente No. 43,'san Salvador : El Salvador , C. A.
England:

James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.

Freemaso ns Hall, London, England.

Finland:
Lauri Sarkia, Grand Secty.,
P. Esplanaa dikatu 35E, Helsinki, Finland.
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
Jean P . Muet, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevar d Bineau, Neuilly-s ur-Seine, Paris, France.
Germany :
United Grand Lodges
P. 0. Box 16367, Frankfur t am Main, Germany .
Greece:
Dr. Panayiot is Hadjipetr os Grand Secty
73 Aristotele s St., Athens 104, Greec~.
Guatema la:
Jorge J . Escandon Enriquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 48, Guatema la City, C. A.
Honduras :
Ramon Hernande z Rivas, Grand Secty. and Chancell or
Apartado 336, Teguciga lpa, D. C., Honduras , C. A. '
Iceland:
Olafur Gislason, Grand Secty.,
Borgartu n 4, (Box 44) Reykj avik, Iceland.
India:
Grand Secretary ,
P. 0. Box 681, New Delhi 1, India.

487

GRAN D LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

488

489

PROCE EDING S OF THE

lrelan d1
J. 0 . Harte , Gran d Secty .,
Freem asons Hall, Dubli n, Irelan d
Iaraeh
Gran d Lodge of the State of Israel ,
Shlom o Zaran kin, Gran d Secty.,
P . 0. Box 2080, Tel-A viv, hraeL
ltalys
The Grand Orien te of Italy,
Umbe rto Geno va, Gran d Secty .,
Via Giust iniani , 5, Rome.
Japan
.,
Carl T. Naka mura , Gran d SectyMina
to-Ku , Tokyo , Japan .
No. 13-1, Shiba , Sakae -Cho,

Luxem bourg :
Gran d Secre tary,
bourg .
Case Posta le No. 260, Luxem bourg -ville , Luxem

Mexico&

York Gran d Lodg e of Mexic o
Cantw ell C. Brow n, Grand Secty .,
Apart ado 1986, Mexic o 1, D. F.
Grand Lodg e of Baja Califo rnia
Anton io Escam illa Mont iel, Grand Secty .,
Apart ado Posta l 564, Mexic ali, Baja Califo rnia.
Gran d Lodge "Cosm os"
Reyn aldo Luch aga F., Gran d Secty .,
Apart ado 171, Chihu ahua, Chih. , Mexic o.
Gran d Lodg e of Nuev o Leon
Jose Galva n Solis, Gran d Secty .,
o.
Apart ado 309, Mont errey , Nuev o Leon, Mexic
c
Pacifi
the
Gran d Lodge of
Inoce ncio Higue ra Verdu go, Gran d Secty .,
Apart ado 20, Guay mas, Sono ra, Mexic o.
Gran d Lodge of Tama ulipa s
Rube n Marq uez Romo , Gran d Secty .,
Apart ado 419, Tamp ico, Tamp s., Mexic o.
Gran d Lodie Unida Mexi cana Gran d Secty .,
Marc ial Ferna ndez Vazqu ez,
Apart ado 56, Verac ruz, Ver., Mex.
Gran d Lodge "Vall e de Mexic o"
Ferna ndo Arias R endon , Grand Secty.,
Apart ado Posta l 10, Mexic o 1, D. F.
Netherland.as
Groot ooste n der Nede rland en,
Dr. P. J. vanLo o, Gran d Secty .,
2 Fluw elen Burgw al, The Hagu e.
Walff 1
South
New
Unite d Gran d Lodg e of New South Wale s,
Jame s S. Mille r, Gran d Secty .,
279 Castl ereag h St., Sydney, N.S.W.
New Zeala nd:
F. G. North ern, Gran d Secty .,
P . 0. Box 6439, Welli ngton C. I ., New Zeala nd.
Nicar agua:
Carlo s H. Muniz, Gran d Secty .,
Apart ado 102, Mana gua, Repu blic of Nicar agua.

Norw ay:
Odd Lie-D avids en, Gran d Secty.,
ay.
Maso nic Temp le, Nedre Vollg ate 19, Oslo, Norw
Panam as
Julio A. Ramo s, Grand Secty .,
Apart ado 84, Panam a, Repub lic of Panam a.

P•nu
Baldo mero Carre no Galic io, Grand Secty .,
Apart ado 587, Lima , Peru.
Philip pines :
Esteb an Muna rriz, Gran d Secty ., l
1440 San Marce lino, Manil a, P.
Puert o Rico1
Juan L. Matos -Cintr on, Gran d Secty .,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santu rce, P uerto Rico.
Quee mland :
V. I. Carte r, Gran d Secty .,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisb ane, Austr alia.
Scotl and:
Alexa nder F. Buchan., Gran d Secty ., nd.
96 Georg e St., Edinb urgh, 2, Scotla
South ern Afric a:
Gran d Secre tary,
P. 0. Box 3431, Cape Town, So. Afric a.
South Au.1tralia1
F. J. Ellen . Gran d Secty.•
Box 19, Rund le St. P. 0 ., Adela ide, So. Austr alia.
eni
Swed
Sven Svedi n, Gran d Secty.,
Sweden
Frimu rareo rden. Blasi eholm sgata n 6, Stock holm,
Swi1:1erland1
Gran d Lodg e AI,in a,
Gilbe rt Jomin i, Gran d Secty .,
.
51, Chem in des Fleur ettes, Lausa nne, Switz erland
Tasm ania:
H. A. Wilki nson. Grand Secty .,
119 Maqu arie St., Hoba rt, Tasm ania.
Vene suela i
(Rep. of Venez uela).
Franc isco Escob ar Rojas , Grand Secty .,
Apar tado de Corre os 927, Carac as, Venez uela.

Vidor ia1
Unite d Grand Lodee.
C. W. Davis , Gran d Secty .,
25 Collin s St., Melb ourne, Austr alia.
Vienn a1
Weste rn Auatr alia:
N. J. Munr o, Grand Secty.,
G.P.O. Box D-177, Perth , Weste rn Austr alia.
0
Yugo slaTia l
Grand Lodg e of the Servs -Croa ts & Slove nes.
0

of Califo rnia prior to being rende red
. •Rec~gnized by the Gr.an d LodgeWar
II, subse quent to which no resum pWorld
g
durin
and
e
befor
rat1ve
mope
d.
ffecte
e
been
has
ons
relati
rnal
frate
of
t ion
rnia prior to the Castr o r egime .
••Rec ogniz ed by Grand Lodge of Califo
ct for some years .
conta
no
but
wn
l·a
withd
not
nibion
... Recog

490

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ALPHABET ICAL UST OF LODGES
A
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acom (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Albany (686). Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland. .
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alexandria (531), San F'r ancisco.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), Daly City.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los An,:?eles.
American River (795), Folsom

Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angelea.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Los Angeles.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Gardena.
Ashland (798), San Lorenzo.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francis c<_>.
Bay Claire Vista (799), San Diego.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5) Benicia.
.
Benj. Franlli (509), Beverly Hills.
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Callayomi (282). Middlet?wn.
Camellia (805), Temple City.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.

Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345) Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), 6 akland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c

Carpinteria (444) , Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Central California Research Lodge,
Fresno
Channel (757), Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), OaklandChlco (111), Chico.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABET ICAL LIST OF LODGES-Co ntinued

491

Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Consuelo (325), Es condido.
Citrol (656), Brea.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Cor inthian (9), Marysville.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Cor ona (324), Pasadena.
Clarence F . Smith (482), Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Claude H . Morrison (747),
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Chul a Vista.
Covenan t (527), L os Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Coastside (762), Pacifica.
Crossroads (696 ) San Diego
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Culver City (467), Los Angeles.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

D
Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Dry town (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsm uir.
Durant (268), B erkeley.

E

Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Rancho (759), R ico Rivera
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
EI Sereno (588) , Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los APlgeles.
Els inore (289), Elsinor e.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Emmanuel (318). Biggs.
Eden (113), San Le andro.
Enterprise (70), Yuba C ity.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eel R iver (147), Fortuna.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
El Camlno Research, Mountain View. Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
E l Ce ntro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Eve ning Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), F a llbrook.
Far W est (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Five Points (779), Long Beach.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.

F
F or est Hill (534), San F r ancisco.
Fort Bragg (361 ), Fort Br agg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall niver Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremon t (497).i.. Oakland.
Fresno (247), l'·resno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

492

PROCEED INGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGE S-Cont inued
G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586). Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Edwards.
Georgeto wn (25), Georgeto w n.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washingt on (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale .
Glendora (404), Glendora .
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramen to.

Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Go lden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardi no
Gol den W est (455), San Francisco
·
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra .
Granada Hills (790), San Fernando .
Gravel Range (59), Campton ville.
Greenlea f (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalup e (237), Guadalup e.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H

Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hamilton (751), Novato.
Hillcres t (573), Berkeley .
Hammon ton (433), Sutter.
Hillsboro ugh (737), Burlingam e.
Hanford (279) , Hanford.
Hills Ferry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmon d.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hollenbe ck (319), Los Angeles .
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollywoo d (355), Hollywoo d.
Hartley (199), Lakeport .
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu , Hawaii.
Hom e (721) , No. Hollywood.
Hemet (615), H emet.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwou rth.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angel es.
Henry Morse Steph ens (541), Berkeley. Hornitos (98), Horn itos.
Howard (37), Yreka .
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Humbold t (79), Eureka.
Heritage (764), North Hollywoo d.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
H ermann (127), San Francisco.
San Francisco .
Hermosa (557), Herm osa Beach.
Huntingt on Beach (380),
H esperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntingt on Beach.
Highland (748), Highland .

I

Inglewoo d (421), Inglewoo d.
Illinoisto wn (51), Colfax.
Ione (80), Ione.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley .
Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecre st. Inyo (221), Independ ence.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.

J

James A. Foshay (641) , Los Angeles. J ohn P . Jarman (669), San Jose.
J ames A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco .
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
James H . Kew (766), Inglewoo d.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles .
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Janesvill e (232), Janesvill e.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Jewel (374), San Francisco .
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco .
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake .
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), K erman.
Keystone (161) , Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, Hawaii
K ing David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon' s (260), San Francisco .
Kit Cars on (734). Sacramen to.
Koolau (801), Kailua, Hawaii.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

i93

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGE S-Cont inued
L
(736)
G
Le
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
, Lemon Grove.
mon rove .
La Canada (739), La Crescenti a.
~ie <371 >,
eiJa<::if
~~~~l~Iu~
le
Barbara.
Santa
(642),
La Cumbre
Monte.
El
(104),
n
4xingto
La Fayette 026), Sebastop ol.
West Los Angeles.
L aguna Beach (672)l.La guna Beach. L~beral Arts (677),
L1bertas (466), Bakersfie ld.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
L~berty (299), Santa Clara.
L;i Jolla (518), La Jolla.
L~ncoln (470), San Francisco .
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
L akeshore (551), Oakland.
Live Oak (51), Oakland.
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Livingsto n (658), Liv rngston.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lod i.
Lake wood (728), Lon g B each.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627). Pasadena.
L ompoc (262) Lompoc
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.
L ong Beach (J27), L ong Beach.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo.
Lancaste r (43J), Lan cas te1
Los Alamitos (809), Artesia.
Landmar_k (2o3.), Espar to.
L a Parfa1te Union (17), San Francisco . Los Altos (712), Palo Alto.
L os Angeles (42) Los Angeles
La Puente (466), La Puen te.
Los Banos (312), 'Los Banos. ·
Larchmo nt (614), L os Ange les.
L os Cerritos (674) Long Beach
Las Palinas (366), Fresno.
·
L os Gatos (292) Los Gatos
Lassen (149), S usan v:Uc
Loyalton (359), 'Loyalton . ·
Laurel (245). Willows.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lawndale (753), Hawthorn e.
Luther Burbank (752) Santa Rosa
Le banon (495 ), San F rrinct!'co.
·
Lyn wood (600), Lyn w~od.
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.

M
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission Bay (771), San Diego.
Madison (23), Gras:; Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Magnol ia Park (715), Burbank .
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manches ter (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa .
Monrovia (308), Monrovia .
Marin (191), San Rafa el.
Montebel lo (451), Montebello.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa .
Monterey (217), Monterey .
Martinez (41), Martinez .
Monte Vista (655), L ong Beach.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, Hawaii.
Moreno Valley (804), Sunny mead
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan H ill.
Maya (793), Los Angeles
Mornings ide Park (742) , Inglewood.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McKinley (347), Richmo nd.
Mosaic (218), Li vermore.
Melrose (602), L os Angeles.
Mother Colony (750) , Anaheim .
Mendocin o (179), Mendocin o.
Mountain Shade (18), Downiev ill e.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mountain View (194),
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mountain View.
Merced (749), Merced.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco .
Meridian (667), Glendale .
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Metropol itan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Jackson (295), Guernevi lle.
Meudell (695) Bakersfie ld
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco .
Taft
(426)
Midway
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
.
Fr
Military Service c5 7o) • San
ancisco. Mount Oso (460) Tracy
.
Mount Shasta (2Bl), Anderson .
M~llbrae (792), Burll_ngame
Mount Vernon (517). San Francisco .
M~ll Valle}'. (356), M1ll,Vall ey.
Mt. Wilson (794), Altadena
Mineral Kmg (720), Visalia.

~94

PROCEED lNGS OF TH E

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

ALPHA BETICA L UST OF LODGE S-Cont inued

ALPHA BETICA L UST OF LODGE S-Cont inued

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatlan d.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

Northern Californi a Research
Lodge, San Francisco.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North H ollywood (542),
North Hollywoo d
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0

Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda .
Oakland (188). Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramen to.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta .
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Occident al (22). San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Ocean Park.
Oceansid e (381), Oceansid e.
Oildale (688), Bakersfie ld.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Old West (U.D.), Newhall.
Pacific (136) , San Francisco .
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonvi lle.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica .
Palmdale (769), Palmdale .
P alms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verd es (389). L ong Beach.
Paramou nt (785), Hollydale .
Park (449) , San Francisco .
P ark Boulevar d (568), Oa kland.
P arnassus (388), San Fra ncis co.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena .
P aso Robles (286) , Paso Robles.
Patterson (488) , Patterson.
P aul Revere (462). San Francisco.
P earl Harbor (598) ,
Honolulu , Hawaii.
P en insu la (745), San Mateo.
P enrhyn (258) , Penryn.
Pentalph a (202), Los Angc.'les.
Queen Beach (540) , Long Beach.
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Reci la nds (300) , Redlands .
R. E. Dolly (616) . Seal Beach .
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168) , Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garbervi lle

Olive Branch (2691. Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corn ing.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys .
Opportun ity (740) , Hawthor ne.
Orange Grove (293). Orange.
Oriental 044), San Francisco .
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383) , Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341) , Oxnard

p
Perris (411 ). Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma .
Phoenix (178) , San Bernardi no.
Piedmon t (521) , Piedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), H ercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg .
Plumas (60) . Quincy.
Plymouth (560) Oakland.
Pohona (689) , Yosemite Vallt>y.
Poinsetti a (633). Ventura.
P oint (503), Richmon d.
Point Firmin (5 58). San P edro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730). No. Sacramen to.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderos a (700), Fresno.
Portervil le (303), Portervil le.
Presidio (354) , San Francisco.
Progressive (578). Los Angeles.
Providen t (609), Sacramen to.
Py ramid (562), San Francisco .

Q
R
Reedley (304) , Reedley.
Reseda (666), Rcseda.
Rialto (582), R ialto .
Richmon d (375) . S:m Francisco
Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhe ad.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397), Huntingt on Park.
Riverban k (459), Riverban k .
Riverside (635), Riverside .
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades .
Rockridg e (468), Oakland.

Rolling Hills (781), Lomita.
Roosevel t (500), San Francisco .
Rosemead (702) , Rosemea d.
Rose's. Bar (89), Smartsvil le.
Rosevill e (222), Roseville .
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Security (581), Bakersfie ld.
Sacramen to (40) , Sacramen to.
Selma (277), Selma.
Sa!Jtt Elmo (697) Oakland.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
·
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Saint John's (725), Walnut Creek.
Service (594) Long Beach.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
Sierra (788), Bass Lake.
San Ant<:>nio (694), South Gate.
S!erra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
.
San Bemto (~11), Hollister.
San Bernardm o (348), San Bernardi no. Sierra Valley (184), Sierra.vil le.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
San Buenaven tura (214), Ventura.
Silverado (782), Napa.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana
San Clemente (671), San Clemente .
Silver Gate (296), San Diego·
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dieguito (775), Cardiff-b y-theSea. Silver Trowel (415) H ollywood ·
Silveyvil le (201) Dixon.
San Dimas (428) , San Dimas.
Simi Valley (806), Simi.
San Fernando (343) , San Fernando.
Sincerity (132), Greenvill e.
San Francisco -Victory (360) ,
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Sa n Fr~nci sco.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Snow Mountain (271) Stonyford
Sanger (316), Sanger.
·
Sojourne r (507), Dua~te.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Vallejo.
(229),
Solano
Jacinto.
San
(338),
San Jacinto
Soquel (746), Soquel.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Sotoyome (123), Healds burg.
San Jose (10) , San ~.ose.
Southern Californi a (278)
Sa n Juan (732) , Farr Oaks.
'
Los Angeles.
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
Southern Californi a Research
San Lorenzo Valley (718).
Lodge, H ollywood.
Boulder Creek.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
San Marino (685), San Marino.
Southlan d (618), Los Angeles.
San M:i-teo (226) , San Ma.teo.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
South Pasadena (367)
San Pablo (754), San P ablo.
South P asadena . '
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena .
South San Francisco (212)
San P edro (322), San Pedro.
'
San Francisco.
San Ramon Valley (724). Danville.
South West (283), National City.
Sa n Simeon (196), Cambria.
Speranza Italiana (219)
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
'
San Francisco.
Santa Barbara (192) , Santa Barbara.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Santa Cru z (38), Santa Cruz.
Stanislau s (206) , Mod esto.
Santa Luci.a (302), King City.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Santa Man.a (580), Ramona.
Stockt on (498), Stockton
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
·
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Summit (112), Knights Fen-y.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Sun Garden (530) Fresno
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Sunnysid e (577), Los An~cles.
Scepter (808). West ~acramento.
Sunnyva le (511), Cupertin o.
Schofl~ld (443), Wah1awa , Hawaii.
Sunrise (522) Los Angeles
Sea.faring (708) , Newport Beach.
Sunset (352), 'L os An geles. ·
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco .
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarvill e.
Seaport. (550), San Francisco.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.
~ear~hllght (567 ), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), L ong Beach.

495

-196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
T
Table Mountain (124), P aradise.
Taift (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (31 3), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
T ejon (773), Bakersfield.
T emblor (477) , F ellows.
Temescal (314), Corona.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), T emple City.
Texas {46), San Juan Bautista.
The Ga!:Jilan (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621 ), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), B erkeley.
Three Pillars (6 13), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), L os Angeles.
Torrance (447), Torrance.
lTnion (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Ang eles.
Vallejo (487), Valle jo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley F orge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triad (U.D.), Montebello.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), T ruckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tuj unga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (731), B ell.
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vermont Square (5 15), Inglewood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victoria Palms (81 0), Rive:·s idc.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Waikiki (774) , H onolulut Hawaii.
Warren G . Harding (5791,
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacr amen to.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565'. Los Angeles.
W estchester (703), L os Angeles.
West Covina (758), Baldwin Park.
West ern Star (2), Shasta.
W est Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West L ake (392), Los Angeles.
W est Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles.
W estminster (787), Westminster.
Westwood (501), Westwood.
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda
York (423), South Gate.
Ze nith (768), Van Nuys.

White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier .
William D. S tephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San J ose .
Wilm ington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), L os Angeles.
Winnedumah ( 287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodland Hills (8 11), Canoga Park.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.
Yucca Valley (802), Yucca Valley.

z

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "California Freemason," copies of which have been sent
to each Grand lodge. This program will be continued.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterly
and ea<;:h copy carries additional reviews. Hence,
they do not appear in these Proceedings.

497

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

499

Burial with Masonic Honors
Resolution Presented (Suicide).......................................................................... 60
Legislation .............................................................................................................. 280
Grand Master's Decision (Medical Research)................................................ 37
L egislation ............. - ............................................................................................... 260
By-Laws
Amendments Submitted .................................................................................... 83
Reports of Committees ................................................................................155, 285

INDEX FOR 1962

A
Adams, Charles Albert, P.G.M.

~;;?~~~~~fS~::":·~::.•• -•:• • :••••••-••••••••• •-•·• • • • ••• • • •:•-••• • • -1!!

Additions and Replacements Reserve

~~:~l~?~fiei~~t~ffii~~~:::::::::::::·:::·:::·:·· ::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::: ::::::::·::· : . ::::!~~
Amendments to By-Laws

~~~~~~~d

i~~~~£~!-~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::·:::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: .:::: 1~~

b:y
Anniversaries of Lodges................................. ............................... ....................... 46
Annual Election .......................................... .................................................. ............ 298
Annual Returns
Audit ........................ ............................................................................................... 334
Details by Lodges............. . .... ............. ........................................................ 450
Mem bership Reported ........................................................................................ 77
Appendix

A!ii~~1:~::i~~~::~~~~f;~~:~:::::::·:::::::::::··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::: u~
Application for Degrees

~~~i~!atl~~ ~~~-~~~-~~-.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::2~~: 2~g

Appointments

~~s~~;~~~~~~f : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :. : : : :·::: :: : : : : : ::::: ::: ::: : : : : : : : : :

::!

Committees and Constitutional Boards ...................... ....................... .......... .. ... 398
Appropria tions, Supplemental
Reported ......................................................... ........... ............................................ 726
28
Approved ........................................................ ............................................... ······· 330
Audited ..................................................................................................................
Attendance
L isted (Registration and Mileage Payments) ................................................ 406
Reported ........................................................................................................... ....... 226

~~t~~~~l:·· · ·: · · · • :• · · · ·: · · · · · · · · · · · :········ · ·· · · · · !li

Af

B

Biography, Guy B. Mize.......................................................................................... 1
142
Board of Control

~~~~~r~f iisted··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::.::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 40:

Brigham Scholars hip Fund Audit... ..................................................................... 34

B~~~;opriations, 1962-63 ..............................................................................288, 314

c
California Freemason
Auditor's Report ......................... ..................................................................321, 332
Grand Mas ter's Comments................. ................................................................. 23
Reports of Committees ......................... ............ ....................................... ...... 195, 287
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Audit ................................................................................................................... ..... 373
Honor Districts ...................................................................................................... 147
Merit Roll .................................................................................................. ..............147
Officers and Trustees ............... .......................................... ....... ................... 299, 405

~~~~~~~~i~i~f~~~~~~~::.:::::::.::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :::: : : : : : : :: : : ::::--UI

Tr ust ees-Grand Master's Recommendation.................................................... 27

T~;r~!~~t~~ori--.-::::~::::.·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: il~

Calling Up Procedures ............ ...... ... ............. ................. ........................................ 295
Candidate Education

~~~~~ ~tctc~~~i~:~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Capital Gains (Income)
Grand Master's Decision............. ...................... ...................... ............................. 36
Report of Committee ........................... .................... ............................................. 259
Cemet eries (Masonic), Reports of Committees ............................................ 209, 270
3
Certification ..............................................................................................................
Changes of Meeting Place
Repor t by Grand Secretary................................................................................ 76
Report of By-Laws Committee.......................................................................... 156
Charters
Report of Committee............................................................................................ 199
Granted .................................................................................................................. 199
Christmas and Entertainment Reserve
Audit .............................................................................. .......................................... 368
Contributions ........................................................................................................ 393
Clubhouses, Reports on

~~~kA. i:eies··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::: ~~~
1

Coaches' Handbook

~~~~~t ~r~~~iTI:~~~-~::::::::.:::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::: ~~~

Code Commission, Report of..............................................................................._. 220
Columbia Temple

Co~En~Mi:~£:~!~;:~:::::::: : :·: : : :: : : : : ::::: : : : : :: : : : : ::: ::: : : : : : :~~~'. ~H
Commercialism
Grand Master's Comments.................................................................................. 22
Report of Committee............................................................................................ 164

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Committee Appointm ents
9
For Communicat ion ............................................................................................
For 1962-63 ................................. ................................. ............. .. ........................... 398
Committee Reports (See Reports of Committees)
Consolidations of Lodges
Gra nd Master's Comments. ......................................................... ............ ............ 23
Report of Gra nd Secretary .................... .............................................................. 76
Report of Charters Committee......................................... ................................. 200
Consti tuent L od ge s L iste d
Alphabetically ...................................................................................................... 490
Numerically .................................................... ...................................................... 450
Constitutional Boards .............................................................................................. 403
Constitution Obser vance
Grand Master's Proclamation ............... .......... ........................... ..................... 53
Report of Committee ........... ..................... .................... ........................................ 197
....... ....... .............. ........................... 41
Constitution of Lodges.......................
Contributions
Christmas a nd Ente rta inment Reserve............................................................ 393
Endowment Fund ................................................................................................ 125
Special Reserves .................................................................................................. 392
5
Copyright Notice ................... . ....... .............. . . ... ... ....... .. ..............................
Corners tone/Dedication Ceremonies - S unday
Grand Master 's Decision................................................................. .................... 36
Repor t of Committee .......................................................................................... 259
Correspondence Committee
.. ......... ..... . ............... .......... 23
Gra nd Master's Commen ts.... ........... ........
Report of ................................................................................................................ 195
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodges .................................................. 497
Covina Home
.. .................................. ... ......... 112
Report of Superintendent .. .. .. ..................
Residents Listed ........... .................................. .................... ................................. 389
Special Reser ve A udit.. ................................. ........................... ............. ........ ....... 366
Special Reser ve Contribu tions ................ ........................... ....................... ........ 392
Credentia ls, Report of Committee ........................... .......... ....................... ....... ...... 226
Cuba, Condition of Masonry ........ .. .......... .. .. .......................................... ............... 206
Culver Palms Pyramid No. 57. Ord er of Sciots
Gra nd Mas ter's Commen ts ... ...... ... .......... _.......................... . ... ..... .. ....... ...... 24
Grand Master's Ed ict ......................................................... ................................. 47
Edict Approved ...................................................................................................... 261

Dimit and Recommendatory Certifica te Procedure
rra:i1 Master's Recommendat ion...................................................................... 33
Dir:;~~r~t~! 'Mas-c;;;1·~··e:·i~i;·h:c;~~~;;···· · ··············· ··· ·· ······· ··· ···· ..................................... 26 1

D
Decisions of Grand Master
Reported by Grand Mast er.... .......................................... .................... .............. 35
Report of Committees................. . ............................................................ ...... 258
Decoto Home (Union C ity)

~:;:,;~ ~: :B~~k-;iey:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~~

Di~;,~:!tfi~s Angeles .......................................................................................... 232

New Lodges ............................................................................................................ 80

~~~c;c!~~de~'.1'.'....:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::··:·:::··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2g~

Display National E m blem
Resolution Presented .......................................................................................... 63
R eport of Committee............. ...... .................................... .......... .. ................... 271
Dist ingu ished Gu est.~
..... .................................. .... ..... ............. ....... 70
Addressed Gra nd Lodge_
Attendance Listed ................................................................................................ 69
Dist r ibution Comm ittee

~~g~~t~e~:. .:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 15~
0
~~~~~:foenn~i r!ag;:~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~~

Dues

E
Elected Officers of Grand Lodge since Organizati on,

~f '6~ic~i:.;~ ..::::::::::::::::::::··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::: i~~
El~Jf~~
gent Matters
1

Emer
Gra nd Master 's Decisions.................................................................................... 37
260
Legislat ion ......... ............. . ...... .. ..... .......... . . . .............. ........ . .. ......
Endowm e nt Board
403
Composit ion o{ Board ............... . ........... .................................... ....... ....
Contributions Analyzed ...... ............................................................................. 125
Contributions Through Lodges _ . .. .. .. .. . . .. ............................. .... ..... ... 129
R eport of ................................................................................................................ 118
Entertainment Reserve Audit................................................................................ 368
Eulogies
Adams. Charles Albert, P.G.M........................................................................... 303
235
Miscellaneous ............ ......................................... .................. .. .......
Wilson, L loyd Earl. P.G.M. (Page 323, 1961 Proceed in gs)
W ollenberg, Charles M., P.G.M .................. .... ......................................... .. 309
Extinct Lod ges, Including Consolidations ............ .......... ............... ............ . 470

~:ri<l~n~ f~lt!~l~.~~~-~-~~-~::..:.::::::::::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~gg

Special Reserve Audit. ......................................................................................~ . 367
Special Reserve Contrib utions .......................................................................... 392
Degree Fees Ta bulated............................................................................................ 450
Degrees Confer red
Tabulated by L odges........... --··--· ......... .... . .......... ...... ....................... ...... 450
Totals Reported .................................................................................................... 79
De Molay
Proc lamation by Grand Master.......................................................................... 50
Resolution Presented .......................................................................................... 64
Legislation ............ .......................................... ........ .... ...... .................................. .... 284
R eport of Specia l Committe e ........................................ ....................... ............. 225
Devotiona l Service .................................................................................................. 10

501

F
F ees for Degrees

83
~~~~~Jn~ tLo~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..:::.::.:::::::::..::.:.::::::.::::::::::::::::::
450
....... .

Fif ty-Year Buttons Presented .................. .............. ................... . .........
87
F inance Committee, R eport of ... ... ................... .. .. ............ ...... . ............ ... . 286
F lint Trust Fund Audit ... . ........... ... .. ...
348
Fo r eign Gr and L odges
R eport of Comm ittee ............... .. ............................................ ... .. ................. ... 205
.... ... ....... ..... . 485
List of Recognized Jurisdictions.................. .. . ...... ........ ... ..
Fran ce, Grand Lodge of
Recognition Withdrawn .................................................................................... 208

502

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Funds of Lodge, Expenditures
Resolution Presented ..........................................................................................

64

F~~~~a~i~s~r~·e-:·Aii<lff ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:
Funeral Service Ritual

~~~f~hi.Y~r:i ~~-~-~~~~~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
G

Gavels (See Calling Up Procedures)..........................................................
295
General Appendix .................................................................................................. 397
Gift Presentation
Resolutions Presented ............................................ ........................................... 54
Report of Committee............................................................................................ 292
Grand Chaplain
Devotional Service .............................................................................................. 10
Grand Lecturer
Report of ··································································································-···--···-·-·· 99
Candidates' Education ........................................................................................ 100
Handbook for Candidates' Coaches .................................................................. 101
Reports of Committees .......................................................................................... 268
Grand Lodge Audit .................................................................................................. 318
Grand Lodge Regalia
Grand Master's Recommendation..............................................................
25
01

0

Gr~~~ °io Jg;~R~~1:s~nt~<l:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~'. ~~
2

Grand Lodge Week Committee
Resolution Presented ................ ·····--··---·············-··········································· . 63
Legislation .......................................................................................................... .. 263
Grand Master (See Mize, Guy B.)

8~:~~ fifi~~~i:··~~~~~--~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
1

Grievances, Report of Committee................................................................. 250, 257
Gross Memorial Fund Audit.................................................................................. 349

H
History, Report of Committee............................................................................... . 158
Holy Royal Arch Knight Templar Priests, Tabernacle of
Grand Master's Decision..................................................................................... . 39
Report of Committee ........................................................................................... . 260
Homes Statistics
Operating Revenue and Expense .................................................... .
339

~:~Je~~taL~f!'de~~~ .. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..:: .. ::::::.:::::::: .. ::::::::::::::::.:.::380; 389
391

Honor Roll (Endowment Fund) ............. ---- -------·-- __ --- ·-·---- ..... ---·--···----··-····· 129

I
India, Grand Lodge of
Recognition of ··············--··-··-·--··-·-·-------------·----------·--·------·········--·-······---······---205, 487
Inspectors
4 2
List of ····················---·---·---- -·-····---·---··-------·····-·-·----··----···-·-··················-·················· 8

503

Inspectors' Responsibilities
Grand Lecturer's Report..................................................... .. . ..
99
Report of Committee...................................................................................
268
Installation of Officers.............................................................................................. 300
Installation Service
Resolution Presented .................................................................................
59
Legislation ..................................................................................... ................ ...... 293
Institution of Lodges
Report of Grand Secretary............................................. ......................... ......... 80
Insurance, Report of Committee ............................................................................ 224
Investment Committee, Report of.............................................................
166
Investment of Funds
Grand Master's Decision.............................................................................
35
Legislation .............................................................................................................. 258

J
Jurisdictions Visited .................................................................................. 19, 21, 46
Jurisprudence, Report of Committee on...................................................... 258, 272

K
Kellems, The Rev. Jesse R.
Devotional Service ......................................................................................... .

10

L
Legislation Proposed
Article IV-A - Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple
Section 226 (Appointment and Powers)
Section 227 (Title to Property)
Section 228 (Organization of Board)
Section 229 (Annual Reports)
Grand Master's Recommendation................... ------------··--···-·---·-----·--------- 28
Legislation --·················-·-······························-········--·------·-·········---·-····-·----·--··· 272
Article IV-B - Directors of the Masonic Club at the University,
Berkeley, California
Section 231 (Appointment of Directors)
Section 232 (Board of Directors and Title to Property)
Section 233 (Organization of the Board)
Section 234 (Annual Reports)
Grand Master's Recommendation ···············-·-------------··--------------··-30
Legislation ······-···-··········································--···-·--·----··--·······-·····----·--·----Z7-1
Article IV-C - Directors of the Masonic Club - University of
California at Los Angeles
Section 236 (Appointment of Directors)
Section 237 (Board of Directors and Title to Property)
Section 238 (Organization of the Board)
Section 239 (Annual Reports)
Grand Master's Recommendation.... ---·-···········-·----·--·-···--·-----------·····-·------· 32
Legislation ·····················-·-··········-·-··--·-············-···············-·-------····-··-··----········ 275
Section 191 (All Matters Referred to Committees)
Amendment Proposed ···-·············--·-·······························--·-············--···-·-·········· 34
Legislation ··-·----·-····----·--······-··-----·-·--·-··---···-·············--················-------·············---- 262

504

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Section 192 (Standing Committees)
Amendment Proposed (Grand Lodge Week Activities)__________________________ 63
Legislation -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 263
Amendment Proposed (Public Schools)______________________________________________________ 24
Legislation ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 276
Section 333 (Commercial Ventures)
Amendment Proposed ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 64
Legislation ----------------------------------------------····-·--·-·--··-·-·------------·------·----·--··-········--- 284
Section 359 (By-laws, cont. - Withdrawal from Membership)
34
Amendment Proposed ----·----·--··-·-----·----·-·----··--····---·---·-·---···-·---·--··--··--·
261
Legislation -----·--------·----------·-·---·--···--------·-------·---·-···--·-·--·····-··-·-·-·-·······-··-Section 378 (Status of Members)
34
Amendment Proposed --·-···----···---··--·-·····--·---------------------------------·--------262
Legislation --------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---·------Section 385 (Research Lodges)
61
Amendment Proposed ·-··---·--·····-·-·----·------------·-·-···------------------------------281
Legislation ---·-----------------------------------------------------··----·---·---·-·······-··------Section 403 (Investment of Funds)
35
Amendment Proposed -----·--------·--·--·-·-···-·-----------------------------------------253
Legislation --------·-----------------·-------------------------------------------··-·····--·------·--·
Section 408 (Expenditure for, Serving of Liquors)
64
Amendment Proposed --·----··-·--·--·-··------·-··-·--·--·-··-··--···-··-----------Legislation ----·---------------·-------------·-·---·---·----·---·-----··--·-·········-···--··-----------·------------ 283
Section 447 (Methods of Dimitting)
34
Amendment Proposed ----------------------------·--···---------·----···-------------·······Legislation -···---------·----------·---··-···········-------------··-·--·------------------------------------------·· 251
Section 452 (Form of Recommendatory Certificate)
Amendment Proposed ····---·---·--···---·-·---·-··---·----------··----···----··--·-·--- -----··----··-·· 34
Legislation -----··------·-·-·····-------·------·-··-----··----·-··----·----···---···············-··-··-·-·-----··-··- 261
Section 511 (Moral and Physical Qualifications)
Amendment Proposed ··-·-----·--------·-----··-····-·------·····--·---·---------------------------··-··- 55
Legislation -·--·-·----------------------··-·--·--------·----------·------·-·--··-··--·--··-----·· -···--··----------· 276
Section 518 (Concurrent Jurisdiction)
Amendment Proposed -·-----·-··-------------···------·-·--····-------·-·---······-· ----------·---·····- 55
262
Legislation ------·----·-·---·-----------------··-·-·····--·-·----------·----·····--·-------·--------·--------Section 520 (Army and Navy)

t~1~r~ti;~t -~~~~-~s-~-~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::_::::::::::::::::: _____________________ 2~~

Section 524 (Waiver of Jurisdiction)
Amendment Proposed ------------------------------------------ ___________ __ ____ ____________________ 55
_______________ 262
Legislation ------------------------------------------------------------- -----------·- ---·
Section 527 (Form of Application for Degrees)
Amendments Proposed ----------------------------------------------------------------- ____________ 57, 58
Legislation -----------------------------··----·----·-···--------·---···--·····---·-----·--·-·-----·-·- ______ 278, 279
Section 557 (Affiliation)
34
Amendment Proposed ·---····-·-----------------------------------------------------261
Legislation -----------------------------------------------------------------------------Section 604 (Burial)
Amendment Proposed ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 60
280
Legislation -·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Section 605 (Funeral Services)
37
Amendment Proposed --------------------------------------------------·-----·-·-----·--------260
Legislation --··---·----------------·-·--·······--------------------·-------·-·------------------------------Section 689 (Form of Charges)
Amendment Proposed -----------------------------------------------------------------·-- ----------------- 66
Legislation ·----·----------------------·-·-··-·--·--------------·-·----·-----------------------··-------------- _____ 263
Section 692.1 (Procedure on Receipt of Charges)
Amendment Proposed -·--------------·---·-····--------·---------·--------------------------------------- 66
Legislation -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-·-------------- 264
Section 692.2 (Notice of Filing Charges)
Amendment Proposed ----·---·-·-··-----------------------·-·-----------------------·-·-·--·------------- 66
Legislation ---·---------------··-·--·-··---------------------·---------------------·---··------·--------------------· 264

't

505

Section 692.3 (Certificate of Service)
Amendment Proposed ---·----------··----·--------------------------------- -------------------------- 67
Legislation ·-------------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 264
Section 692.4 (Procedure if Accused Fails to Plead Not Guilty)
67
Amendment Proposed ------------------------------------------------------------------------------264
Legislation ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------Sections 695, 698, 703, 704, 705, 708, 716, 717, 722, 725, 728,
736, 737, 738 (Various Trial Procedure Forms)
66
Amendment Proposed ---------------------------- ---------------------------264
Legislation --------------------·---------------------------------------------------------------Section 709 (Counsel)
67
Amendment Proposed ----------------------------------------------------------265
Legislation -----------------------------------------------------------------------------Section 727 (Transcript and Disposition of Trial Papers)
67
Amendment Proposed -----------------------------------------------------265
Legislation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------Section 743 (Additional Evidence and Argument)
68
Amendment Proposed ---------------------------------------------___ ______ 265
Legislation -------------------------------------------------------------------Section 761 (Grand Lodge Action on Appeal)
68
Amendment Proposed ------------------------------------------------266
Legislation ----------------------------------------------------------------------Application for Degrees
______ 57, 58
Presented ------------------------------------------ ___ -----Resolutions
Leg is la ti on ________________________________________________________________________________________________ 2 78, 279
Burial with Masonic Honors
60
Resolution Presented (Suicide) _____________________________ ------------------280
Legislation ------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------37
Grand Master's Decision (Medical Research)_________________ ___
259
Legislation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------California Masonic Memorial Temple, Trustees
27
Grand Master's Recommendation__________________________________________________
Legislation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- _____________________ 272
Capital Gains (Life Membership)
36
Grand Master's Decision_____________________________________________________________
259
Legislation ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Cornerstone/Dedicat ion Ceremonies-Sunday
__ ___ ___ 36
Grand Master's Decision_________________________________________________________________
259
Legislation -----------------------------------------------·------------------------------------------------Dimit & Recommendatory Certificate Procedure
33
-----------------------__
_______________________________________
Grand Master's Recommendation
Legislation ·----------·--------------------·----------- --------------------------------------------------- _____ 261
Display National Emblem
Resolution Presented -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 63
Legislation ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 271
Funeral Service Ritual
Resolution Presented -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 59
Legislation ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 293
Gift Presentation
Resolutions Presented ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 54
Legislation ·--------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 292
Grand Lodge Week Committee
Resolution Presented -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 63
Legislation ---------------------------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 263
Holy Royal Arch Knight Templar Priests, Tabernacle of
39
Grand Master's Decision___________________________________________________________________
260
Legislation --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Installation Service
Resolution Presented ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- 59
293
Legislation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Investment of Funds
Grand Master's Decision _____________ -------------------------------------------------------------------- 35
Legislation -------------------------------------------·----------···-------··---------------------------------------- 258

506

507

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Life Member Withdrawal Incomplete
Grand Master's Decision·-----------------------------------------------------··-····-·-····-------··----- 39
Legislation ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 260
Lodge Rosters

Life Membership Resolutions
Reported by Grand Secretary........ ---··-····-·--·······-··-·---·····-·-··-·············--·-····-··-·-- 82
Approved -·-·-·-··---·-·----·---··-----·--·------·---··--·--------··--·--····-··-·-····-··-······-··········-·········-·- 285
Liquors, Serving of
Resolution Presented --·---·--···-········-·-·-···-·-·-·········-·-·········································-·· 64
Legislation ···--·---·-----·--·-·-----·---·--·-·-·-···-···-·-·-··············-··-·····-···-·····-························· 283
List of Constituent Lodges .................................................................... .
450
Lodge Financing
Grand Master's Comments ................................................................................. . 23
Report of Committee........................................................................................... . 173
Lodge Rosters
Grand Master's Decision.................................................................................... . 37
Report of Committee.................................................................. .
259
Lodges
490
~~n~~~~!~~!~sL~~-~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:············-···
46
Charters Authorized ··-···--············-············································ ............... .
199
,;.1
Constituted ·---·····-·-·----·-·-· ····························-·-·······················
43
Instituted -·-······-·-····--··-···-························-··········································
Numerical List ·-·-·-·---·······················-···············-·-·-····················
450
Los Alamitos Lodge No. 809
Instituted --··-···-····-···-··-·-·-·-····-·-············-····················································
80
Chartered ·-----·-··-·-·-··-·-·········-··-···-··········-···-·---·····-·-··-········-···································· 199
Los Angeles Masonic Hall (See Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles)
Luckenbach Fund Audit ......................................................................................... . 344
Luxembourg, Grand Lodge of
Recognition of ................................. .
................................................ 205, 488

r~:is1afto~t~~:-~--~~~~~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~i

Masonic Club at the University, Berkeley

r~:is1aft~~t~-~:~--~-~-~-~-~~-~~~-~-~~-~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Masonic Club-University of California at Los Angeles
Grand Master's Recommendation·----------·--·----------············-·---······················- 31
Legislation ---------·--·-·-·····-········-···········································-······························: 275
Membership Qualification

~:~?~1aYki~ ~~~~-~-~~-~-~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Order of Sciots

~~;E~A~EI~~i ~~~~~:~~~:::::::::::::::::_:_:.:::::::::::::::::_:::::_:::::::::::::::_::::·:-:::::::::::::: 2iI

Physical Qualifications

~:;?~1aYi~~ ~~~~-~-~~~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· 2~g

Public Schools Committee Membership
·
Grand Master's Recommendation........ ............... .......................................... 24
Legislation ------------·-·-··--·--------·-··-·-----·-··---·-···-·····-··-·-····· .................................... 276
Qualification of Board and Committee Members
Grand Master's Recommendation............................................... .......... . . 34
Legislation -------------------------·-·-·-···-··-·-········-······································: .......... :.::::.: 262
Research Lodge Appropriation
Resolution Presented -·-··········-···· ··········································-········ ............... 62
Withdrawn -·--------··-·-··---···· .....................................
................
68
Research Lodge Officers
Resolution Presented -····--·····-······························· .................................. .
61
Legislation -·-·------·-·--·--·--- ....................................................................... .
281
Royal Ark Mariner Lodge

r~;is1afto~t~~·-~--~~~~-~~-~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· 2~~

Serving of Liquors
·
Resolution Presented ···-·········································-··-················ .................... 64
Legislation ·····----·-··---·-··-·-····-··················-·················· ....................................... 283
Sponsorship of DeMolay
Resolution Presented ·························-····································
64
Legislation -----····-·-·-··-·-·······-·--·-····-····-·---···-·-····-·-····················
284
Trial Procedure-Addition al Evidence and Arguments
Grand Master's Comments ..... ----·········----···········-······················
16
Resolution Presented -·--············ .......................... .
68
Legislation -··--·-·-·····-·············-·····
265
Trial Procedure--Counsel
Grand Master's Comments ......... .
16
Resolution Presented .............. .
67
Legislation ---·-···············-·········
265
Trial Procedure-Forms
Grand Master's Comments..
. . ................................ .......... . 16
Resolution Presented ........... ..... .... ...... ....... ........ . ............................ . 66
Legislation --··-·········-·-·-···········
263
Waiver of Jurisdiction

~:~1;1avki~ ~~~~-~-~~-~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· 2~~

Library and Museum
·
Report of Committee............................................................................................ 212
Life Member Withdrawal Incomplete
Grand Master's Decision...................................................................................... 39
Report of Committee ............................................................................................ 260

M
Masonic Clubhouses
Grand Master's Recommendations...............................................
........ 28, 31
Legislation -------------·-··-···-·----·-·-······-···················································
..... 273, 275
Berkeley Clubhouse, Report of Trustees ................................................... .
229
Los Angeles Clubhouse, Report of Trustees ........................................ .
232
Trustees Listed -·-···-········-···--··············-···--·-·----···························-···············
405
Masonic Education, Report of Committee on..................... .
201
Masonic Historical Monuments
Grand Master's Comments ............................................ .
16
Masonic History Committee Report ............................ .
158
Masonic History
Report of Committee....................................... .
158
Masonic Homes
Audit -········-·--············-··-···········-··············-································
.................. . 336
List of Trustees ................................................................................ .
404
Report of Endowment Board ......................................................... .
ll3
Report of Superintendent. Covina ............................................... .
112
Report of Superintendent, Union City ................................................ .
108
Report of Trustees .................................................................................. .
102
Statistics on Residents and Costs ...................................................... .
391
Trustees Reappointed ··········-···-····-····-··-··---··········-····························
299
Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund
Audit ·--·-···-·-··-······-···-··-····················-····-···············································
343
Bequests ........ -----···-·····································-···········································--·············· 126
Comments of Grand Master .............................................................................. . 22
Contributions through Lodges ................................................................... .
129
129
Honor Roll ·············-····-··········································-·············-·····························Members and Officers, 1962-63 ......................................................................... . 403
Memorials ················-···---············-·································································--······· 126
Proclamation of Grand Master......................................................................... . 52
Report of Board ............... ---·--··-··-···-·······-···-·-·····················--·-································ ll8
Terms of Members ............................................................................................... . 125

508

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic Information, Report of Committee on...... ·······---·--···········-·-·---········
217
Master Masons' Attendance.... ···-··--·············-·············-·-···········----·············-··-·---·--··· 227
Meeting Place-Changes Listed by Grand Secretary·····------···········--·------·-·-··· 76
Members' Contributions by Lodges ........ ·-···············-··---·-·----·--------·······-··------------- 450
Membership

¥~b~fat~~cbe;arc;;dg!~~~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~'. 4~5

Membership Qualification
Resolution Presented -·-····-----------····-··--------····-·--·-----·-·····--··-----------·······-------··--·-· 55
Legislation ------·······-··--··········----------··--------···-····---·-----------·····---------···-----------·-·-······· 276
Memorial Contributions ·······-···-·--·--···---·----·-···-···--··--··-········-·---·-----·····------------··-···· 126
Memorial Service -·-····-········---·-·-······-··----····-·······--··········-···-·····-··········-·-··-·····---------- 235
Memorial Temple (See California Masonic Memorial Temple)
Merit Roll (California Masonic Memorial Temple)·---·--·-·········---147
Message of Grand Master........ ····--···········--···-·········-·-··-·········---·-·--·-···-----·-··-··-··____ 15
Mileage Payments
Report of Committee.·---------·-·····------···--·--·----------··-------- ···-····--------------·-··
227
Tabulation of Payments ...... ------·······-----·-··---·····---------·--·--·-------------- -------------···-· 406
Military or Naval Applicant
Grand Master's Recommendation_________________________ _
27
Legislation ····--···-····-·····-----·-····· ------·····---·-·····--·· . ___ ---····- ···-- _________ .. __ -----····-· 272
Mize, Guy B., Grand Master
. .

~?i;~;;h~h .::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~-r~-~t-~~~1ecr

Appointments for Communication...... -------·---------·-···----- ----········-·--------···-·------9
Decisions ·---··--······-·····-------·······-------··-··---------·-···------------------------------·-·-·-------------35, 258
Exhibits -·-·--··········---·-·········-·--····-········----·----····-------·--········-·--------·····-··--------······17, 48
Lodges Constituted ·---·------·-·····--·---------····---- ..... -··--·-·---------····------------·· ·-----------· 41
Message ··········-··----·······-···--·--·-·····--··----····-------·----·-······-·-------------·-·---15
Proclamations ······--------·····--------······---·--·----····-···-------- ····-···--------·--- ---------------··---·· 50

~~~~~~~~d~~~!1is_c_~~~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::25;··251; 2i~
~~~~~~~ g~;::::~~t~!ti·~~~---:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~: !i

Visitations to Other Jurisdictions·----------··········-----·--········------------·-·····--------21, 46
Monitor, Division of
Grand Lecutrer's Report ..... ---·--------- -------········- . ---- ----·· . _______ -----·-···· __
99
Report of Committee........... ----·····-- ····----·······-·---··---········-------------·--·--······--·---- .. 268

N
Necrology, Report of Committee.·----------··--·----·----------·--------------·-------------------·----- 235
New Lodges
Charters Authorized ·······-···-------·--·----------·--·······-------·--·--------·--·-·····-------··-··-·--·---- 199
Constituted ········---··--········----·-·-·····---· ··-···-····················---------···---·--··---·-·-··-·--41
Dispensations ···················-··-·-----···--·---------·-·---·-··---·---·-·-·-·-·----···-·--···-··-----·--···------- 82
Instituted ·······----·············--·-···-·------·······----·---········- ____ ········-··---···-···········-·-------·- .. 80
Non-Emergent Matter ··-····---·--·-·-·····---·-····--····--·--·--··-·····--·-----·-·········--------·-·-·-·----· 68

0
Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointment of for 1962-63 .......... ·--········-·-·----·-··-------------··-·-···------------·-··--·------- 298
Attendance from Other Jl:irisdictions ................. ----·-·····-------··········-··--·----······· 69
Election of ·-··-·-··------·-······-·--··········--··········-·-···-·····---·--·-----·-··---·-------·-·········---··-·-·-· 298
Installed for 1962-63 ..................................... ·-·----·········-··---·----·-···············-·-··-·-·--·· 300
Present at Communication................... ----········--·-------·---·····-···-···--···-········---------7
Since Organization ···········-----·······--·-·········-··--········-·····----··--·············-····-····-······· 475

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

509

Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles
Grand Master's Comments and Recommendation...... _________ --------------··----18, 19
Reports of Committees ..... ····--·····--··-·--···········---··--·--·-·----····-·-·-·········---···------163, 269
Old West Lodge, U.D.
Instituted ··-····-·-·-··-·-·-···-·-··-----------···-----·-·--·-··--·-···--·-····---····---···-··-··-·-------·--·-·--81, 199
Oliphant, Henry D.
Grand Master's Comments __ ····-----··----··----·-··---····--·-···----···----·-··----·----····----···------ 15
Grand Secretary's Report (Retirement)·--·--··----····----··-----·----·-····---··-----·-········ 98
Resolution of Appreciation __ ···-----···--·-····--·-···--··-·-----------···------------·-----····-122
Opening of 113th Annual Communication.________________________________
__ ····----····
7
Oration by Grand Orator...... ---···---···---···-·----··---····-----··------·-------·-----··-----·------··---- __ 186
Order of Sciots
Grand Master's Comments_·-··-----··-----------··-----·-·----··-··--···-------------------------··----···· 24
Grand Master's Edict. ....... -------·---·-··-----·-·······-----··-----·-·----··-·----···----------·---------·---· 47
Edict Approved ········--·-··------------·-·---··------·------··------------·-----···------------·------------------- 261

p
Past Grand Masters
List Since Organization ..... -----····-····----·-·-----------·----·------------·-----------·--·-···475
Present at Communication. _____________________ ·--------·--····----·------·-----·-------·-------8
Visitors at Communication ___ ·-----·--·-···----·-----··-·-----··---·-·--···-·---···-------------------G9, 70
Past Masters-Necrology Report._····---·------···-----·---···-·--····---···---···-----·---·-··----235, 239
Pay of Members
Report of Committee·--····---····---···---·------···----------·-----··-·-·-··-----··----·-------------·-------- 227
Tabulation of Payments ... ·--··········--·····---···-·--···---···-·-····-·-····-···-··--·-·------------------ 406
Per Capita Cost of Homes Operation ___ ................... -----···----···-----------·-----·-----·------- 391
Per Capita Payment by Lodges·-··-·-···-----··---··-·-·····-·-···----····--···----· ----···--- ____________ 450
Perine Endowment Fund Audit __ ···--···------···--·------··-----··---·-----···--··346
Physical Qualifications
Resolution Presented ......................... ------···----···--··-·---····---··-·--··----·-··--···-----··----- 56
Ruled Contrary to Ancient Landmark ................ ---····-·····---····--····----·-······-----··· 263
Policy and General Purposes
Report of Committee.......... ··········-····-·················-···········---···--······--···-·-····-----267, 272
Presentations (See Special Presentations and Addresses)
Proclamations
Constitution Observance ······················--····---···--·····-···········-·······-·-·---····----------·· 53
De Molay ················-················-··················--··--··········-·········-·····----··---···---··-----····-- 50
Masonic Homes Endowment Month_····---···----·-··---····--····--·····--··----·-·----····-----··- 52
Public Schools Week................. ·-·····---·········---··········--·-·-·--·····---····--·--·----··-·---·-·-- 51
Public Schools
Dedications ·-··········-·····-····-································-····-·-····--·-·-··--···---·-···-···-·---··-------· 42
Grand Master's Comments __ ······-···········--··········-·············---·-·----··-·--··----···-····17, 22
Grand Master's Recommendation (Committee) .. ·---····---····---···---·-··---·-·---·-··· 24
Legislation ······-··········-···········-······························-····-·-····---·····-····-·······---····--·------· 276
Proclamation by Grand Master.. ·--·-··----····---··----···---··--·--···--······-····-·---··-----·------ 51
Report of Committee.................... ·····--·····-··-··-······-············-······----·····-···--····-·--···· 181

Q
Qualification of Board and Committee Members
Grand Master's Recommendation_······-·····-·-···---·····--····--····---·-·-····-·--·-··---····----· 34
Legislation ································-·············································-······························· 262

510

PROCEED INGS OF THE

R
Receptio ns and Breakfa sts Reporte d .... --------------------------------------------------------------- 43
Recogni tion of Foreign Grand Lodges
Report of Commit tee ..................... -------·---····--······--····--···-----------···---····---···-···-----·
Recogni zed Jurisdic tions ----------------·------------------------------·------·-------------·------------·-- 205
485
Recomm endation s of Grand Master...... ---·----···--·-·-----····----·
·-----···----·------27, 261, 272
Regalia (See Grand Lodge Regalia)
Registra tion and Mileage Paymen ts .... --------------·------··----·--------------·------··---··------- 4.06
Reports of Commit tees
Board of Control. . __________________________________________________________________________________________________
142
By-Law s -----························-·-····-··············-·····--·····-·······----·-··-·····--·····---····-····---······
155
Cemeter ies -----·········-··············--·············--·····--·············-·····-·····----···--·······-···--·-··
·----· 209
Charter s ························································-·-························----······-····----··---·-···· 199
Code Commis sion ·········-·······-·····-·········-·····--····----····---·····--···---·-···--·-····-··-····
·--··- 220
Columb ia Temple -------------·-·····---····--·-··-------------·-·--·--·------·-·---···-·--···----·------------··
Combin ed Commit tees ······-·-····----·····--····--·--···---··-·---·-··-----·---·-·-·------------··---------- 219
Commer cialism ···-·········--·····----------·-··----····-----···---·-·----·------··------··-------------------···--- 272
164
Constitu tion Observa nce ·····---·-····--·····---····--····------·--·------------------·-·---- 197
Corresp ondence ---------------------------------------------------------·---------------------------·----·-------···------------ 195
Credent ials -------------------------------------------·--·····-----····--······--···---····----·····---····-----·--·-····
De Molay ··········-·······-······················-·-·····-------------------------------·····-------------------·------- 226
225
Distribu tion ----------·-·--------------------------------------------·---------------------------·-------·------·------ 153
Finance ---------···-------------------------------------------------------------------------·------·------------·--------- 286
Grievan ces --------------·-·······-···························-·---····-·-····-·---··-----··-----····----·-·-····
250, 257
Historic al Monum ents (Referen ce to) .... ---·-····----··
-·-·---·---····-----···----···----····----- 159
Insuranc e ··················································-·····-···-····-·······--·····--··············---------------224
Investm ent -·-···---·········-··-····-··--·----··--·-·--·--·----··-··-·····-·-·-····--·-------··------···--·-··------·-- 166
Jurispru dence ·····························-··-····--·····----------··--·------··------·------·----·-··----·-·258
Library Commis sioners ---·-·-·-·····-----·-------------·····-··-···-·-·-··--·----------··--···-------------·, 272
Lodge Financin g ------·-·--····---------···-···--·-·-···--···-···-·--·-····-·-----···--·---·--·---··----···--···-- 212
173
Masonic Clubhou ses
Berkele y ··········-··-----·········--·····---·-··-··--·-·----·-·--·-····--·--·-··--·--··-----··---·--·--···--·--·-·--Los Angeles -············-··-···-·--·····-------·------···-····------···--··-···-··-···------···-----·-··-···-··-·· 229
· 232
Masonic Educati on ------------------····----·--·----·--··--·--···-------------·----·-··----·--------···--····--·- 201
Masonic History ·-·-····························-·-·····--·--·····-·····-······--·-····-------··---··----··-------··
Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board ........ -------·······-···-···--·--·----·-···----·-----·-··----·-· 158
Masonic Homes Trustees.............. -----------·--·-··-·-----·-····--·--·--···-··---·-···----··-·--····----- 118
Masonic Informa tion ··············------------··-···········-----·-······--···-------------·--·--------------- 102
-- 217
Memori al Temple Trustees .......... ----·-·-···-·-·--····-·--··-···--·--·-------·-·-·····----··-·-·-···--···
146
Necrolo gy ·····-·················-·····-----···················-····-···-···----······----··-·-----------·------···
235
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles ..... ---·-···-·-·--··-···---·-···--·--···----··-·-·-···-----·-------·
····-···
Pay of Member s ... -----------------------------······-··-·····--·-·-······--------·--·-··--·-···------·----·-·-----·- 163
227
Policy and General Purpose s............ ----··-···-------------------···-·-········-------··----··2
67, 272
Public Schools ·········-··············-·······-------·--·-···--·-··-·········-···-···--·-·--·····--·-····-·-------··
Recogni tion of Foreign Grand Lodges .... ---·-·····--·--···---·-···---·-··-·------·----·-···--····· 181
Ritual ········---------------····-··-······-··········-······--·-··-·-···-·-----·-·-···--·····-·-----·-----·-·-----·-·------ 205
292
Sojourn ers ···········-·-·--·-···-······-·-····--·-·---··-··-·····-··-··-·--··-···-·----··------------·-···-··--·------- 221
Taxatio n ··································-······························-······-···············-·-·············--········
222
Reports of Officers
Grand Chaplai n-Devo tional Service........... ------····-········-·······---····--·--··-----···· 10
Grand Lecture r ··············-···················--·-·····-·-·······-·······--······---···----······----···-----·-99
Grand Master ·····-····--··-····-······-·······················-······--······--·-····-----···--·--····----···-----·
Grand Orator ---··········································-···············--·-·······--······--·······-·······--·· · 15
Grand Secretar y ·························-·-···--················-····--·--·······-·······-·······---····- ····· 186
76
Grand Treasur er ························--·-································-·······-······----·····----···---····-··
··--·-··· 72
Represe ntatives of Lodges
Attenda nce Reporte d ··········--·-······-·····--·······-·-·····---·······---·····--·-····-----···------·····
·· 226
Roster of Attenda nce............. ---·-·······-··-·····-·-·····----······--······-·-·····---··
······--·-··-----·· 406
Researc h Lodge Approp riation
Resoluti on Presente d ··················--··············-·-······--······-······----·····---·--··----·-···---··62
Withdra wn ····························-·····················--······----····-·--···············-·····----····-----····· 68

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

511

Researc h Lodge Officers
Resoluti on Presente d ····-····-····----····-·-····-·-·············-····················-·-·····················
61
Legislat ion ·····-···········--·····-·······--······-······-·····---······-······--·····-················-·······-··
······ 281
Reserve for Addition s and Replace ments-A
udit............................................ 365
Reserve Fund Audits ..................... ---·····-·················---··-············-·······-·····--·-·············
365
Residen ts at Homes
Covina ·····--···········---··-··---·--··-······-·····-·-·············-·······-······-······--····················-········-Union City ········--·····-·······-·····--·······-····---······-······-··-···························--·-···········-- 389
··· 380
Statistic s ·······-···-··--------····---······-···-··--···-·--····---······-·····-··-····-·········--····-········
··-·····-·· 391
Residen ts' Account s Audit.. .. ---------------·-·-·····-----·--·-----------··---··········-···············
······· 351
Resoluti ons (Also see Legislat ion)
Presente d ·······-·-····---···---·····-·····---····-·······--····-·-····---······---····-·--····---······-·-·····---······
54
Withdra wn ········-······-············-·····--·-··---·····
·······---··············-··············-······-······ 68
Retirem ent Pension Plan
Report of Finance Commit tee..
....... ····--·----······---·····-····-··--····-·--· 287
Ritual, Change of Funeral
Resoluti on Presente d ·······-·····-----·-----···-······-····· ····-·······-······-······---······--·-········· 59
Legislat ion ·····-············-·····-·····---···-·--·····--····----·····---···············-······--······-······-·········
293
Ritual Commit tee, Report of·-----····-·-····--····-·--·-···---······--·····--······---····-·--····
··--······· 292
Roll Call ······-·················-···········----····---··········--·-······-··············-·-·······-········-·····-·······-7
, 8
Royal Ark Mariner Lodge
Grand Master's Decision.... -----·····----···········----····--······--·-······-······-········--····--·-·····
Report of Commit tee .. ·-····--······-·····-·-·····-·-·······--······················-·-·····---·····-·······-··· 38
260

s
Scepter Lodge No. 808 Charter ed ..........................................................................
199
Scholars hip Fund Audit ..........................................................................................
350
Sciots, Order of
Grand Master's Commen ts ....... ---····--·-····-·······-····--···········--·····-·····--·-·
24
Grand Master's Edict ... ---··-············--··········--··············-·············-······-······-·····-········-·
······-····--· 47
Edict Approve d ··········-····-·-···----··-········--····---·····-······-·······-····---·····--······-····
-·-·····- 261
Serving of Liquors
Resoluti on Presente d ······----·-·--···----····---··-··-·····--···········--·····-·-···········---····--····-··
64
Legislat ion ·················--··········-·-··········-·-···--······-······-··············-·················--······--··· 283
Sessions of Commu nication
Monday Morning ·········-····-·--·----···---····--····-·-························--······--····-······---····--··
7
Monday Afterno on ········-···----··--·····--······-········································-·····--········
···· 54
Tuesday Morning ·-······-·----···--····-·-····--···········-······-·······--···-·······-·······--····-·····
·---·-· 155
Tuesday Afterno on ··-·····--······-····--······-····-·······-·····-···························
··· 186
Wednes day Morning ···-·--···----····----··---····-·-····-·-····--······--······--····-·····---······-······
-·-···········---· 222
Thursda y Morning ·····---····-····-----··--······---····--·····--·····--·····-·······--····-·-····--·····---···· 250
Thursda y Afterno on ··--···-·--····---···---······-······--····-·-····---·····-······-·····--········---·····
··· 267
Friday Morning ······-···········--·····--·····--·····----···--·····················--·····--······--····
-··-···--· 295
Friday Afterno on ···············--·····--···-·-·····---····-·-··············-········-·······--··--·--····--··---- 300
Seventy -Five Year Button Presente d .... -----·····---····----····-········-················-···---··
-· 77
Sojourn ers, Report of Commit tee..... -----····--······--····---······-·······-·······--····----··
·---····· 221
Souther n Africa, Grand Lodge of
Recogni tion of ······················-·····-·····-·-····---·-···--······························--······-······206,
489
Special Append ix ······-······-····-····-·-··-····--·-·----··-··---················-······-·-·····---···-----······-···
Special Ceremon ies Reporte d .... ---·······-····-----····-·······-·······-·········-·······-·······---······· 313
41
Special Commit tees ··--······-·-·········-·-····-·-·····-·······················--·········--·····--·····-·········· 401
Special Commu nication s Reported.............................................
........................... 41
Special Presenta tions and Address es ...... -----···-··-················-···-··---······----·····----····
· 71
Sponsor ship of De Molay
Resoluti on Presente d ·--·····-·-·····-·····--······--···············-··········································
64
Legislat ion ······················---··---············--··············-·--···························-·········---···
-···· 284
Standin g Commit tees ········---······-······-·············--·····-························-··············--···
Student s' Loan Fund Audit........................................................................... ···· 398
......... 350

512

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Supplemental Appropriations
Auditor's Report ·························--····················-----·-------·--------------·-··-·--·---Finance Committee Report ............... ------------····----·--··------------------·······----Grand Treasurer's Report ..... ·-----------------·--···---·-------------------····----·-·-·-----

329
286
72

T

u
369

~~EE~J~J~~r~::~~~ii:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::~H: ~~~

Maundy Thursday Resolution ........ ----------·······················---·-·-·----·---------------------- 68
Research Lodge Officers' Resolution _______________________ ................................... 61, 281
Trial Record 1554... ---········-··----·----·························-··--·-·------------------·-·------·------·-·-- 257

v
Veteran Buttons Presented
75 Year Button......... ---···-·--------------·-······················-··--·-----------·--------------·-·········--·--·
50 Year Buttons......................................................................................................

80
199
...... 19, 21, 46

w

Taxation, Report of Committee ........... ---------- --··------·----------222
Telegrams
Sent ·····---···--···--------------------··-·--------·---------··--·- --------------------------- _________________ _
9
Received ····---------------··----···--------------···--·····-···---------·-·----·-···-·---·---- ·---------···-9
Testamentary Gifts ··-·······-·-----------------····--·---·-----------------·-·---·-126
Textbooks for the Philippines
Request from Grand Master of Philippines _______________ _
183
Reports of Committees ···-·--·-----·-·················---------------··-- ______________ _
267
Title Page ···········-·-·-·-·-·······-·········-·-··················-----------····-----·-·-------------------5
Triad Lodge, U.D.
81
Instituted ····----·············-··---··--·················----------------······- --··---·---·--------------- _
Dispensation Continued ·----------···················---·--···-·····
199
Trial Procedure
Additional Evidence and Arguments
Grand Master's Comments ....................................... ---····-----····---···-··-··----------· 16
Resolution Presented ·····-··-·-·----················-···-·-·······················-·--······-···-··-······ 68
Legislation ······-·-··························-···················-···-···········-··-····-·······-·---·····---·-·--- 265
Counsel
Grand Master's Comments ............................................................................. . 16
Resolution Presented ··············-······························-···························--···-··-·-·· 67
Legislation ··········-···--·---·--·-········-··--·--------·---·-················---·-·--------·--------·-··········-- 265
Forms
Grand Master's Comments ........... ----·-·-···--···-·--·---------------·--················------·--··· 16
Resolutions Presented ················---------------········-·········-··-···----------------66, 67, 68
Legislation ·-·--·-···················----·---·-··········-·--------··--·---------·----······-···-·-·····----·263, 265
Trial Records
Reported by Grand Secretary......... ---------·--················---·---·-------·------·-----------·---- 84
Grievances Committee Report.. ...... --------············---·------------------------------·····-250, 257
Trustees of Masonic Homes
Annual Report ··········--··-·--·----·-············------------------·------············-·········--------------·-·· 102
Reappointed ·--------·······-------·------------·--·················--··-···-------------· -------------·---·-----····· 299
Listed ···-···-···-··--·----·---···-·--···--------··-·················-············----·--------------------------··--------- 404
Trust Funds Audit ..... ---·-······-···--··---·-------·-----·················---···--······--······--··---·------·----- 342

Unappropriated Reserve Audit.. ......... ---·-···········-·---·----------------·-·············Unfinished Business for 1963

Victoria Palms Lodge No. 810
Instituted ····-------········----·----···
Chartered ···-····------------···----·-------Visitations to Other Jurisdictions ....

513

77
87

347
Wadleigh Fund Audit .....
Waiver of Jurisdiction
55
Resolution Presented --------- ___ ------262
Legislation --········------------- _____ --·--------··--Wilson, Lloyd Earl, P.G.M.
Comments
.. 16, 25
Grand Master ·····-----·-------·-·----·73
Grand Treasurer ---·····-·········-----···············- ------·----------------···--·-Eulogy-1961 Proceedings (page 323)
Wollenberg, Charles M., P.G.M.
Death and Funeral... ........................... --·-----------·-······--------··-····--------------·-----------·- 308

~~;~~~r~~h ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::·.:·:::::·:::: ~g~

Woodland Hills Lodge No. 811
Instituted ············--···-···········--·-----------·········----------···············--·-···············-·······------·· 80
Chartered ·-·······-----·-·--·····--·······--------·-··········-----------·-·-····----·---····-·········--·----···-------- 199

